The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 84, Number 18, February 21, 1984
hone call results in arraignment
NEIL J. GREENBLUM
News Editor
Four student senators were arrested and 
ther impeached as a result of actions 
en by the impeached senator.
Former H&SS senator Orpheus Allison 
ormed the Pennsylvania Liquor Control 
rd (PLCB) that alcohol would be sold at 
ebruary 3 Senate party without a license. 
My actions were intended as a warning 
CMU that illegal activities must cease, 
is university cannot continue to getaway 
th such abuse of the law, said Allison. 
An undercover PLCB agent came to the 
and found out the names of the 
tused senators through conversation with 
em. He returned to CMU for the Student 
nate meeting February 7 and informed the 
of the charges brought against 
tern. Senators Sondra Elson, David GoldAlexandra Kavoulakis, and Nate 
>lano were later arraigned by a magistrate. 
I feel it was in the best interests of the 
udents to act as I did, stated Allison. 
DThis was not an attempt to get anyone in 
ouble. It was to make a statement about 
!cohol abuse at this university. Now there 
ill he PLCB agents watching the school to 
further illegal action from taking
A petition to impeach Allison circulated 
Tiong H&SS students throughout the
Allison himself. He explained that he 
agreed with some of the statements on the 
petition, and he did not mind signing it.
The hearing, held last Tuesday at a 
crowded regular Senate meeting saw Donna 
Dietz, an H&SS student, read the petition. 
His (Allisons) recent actions have outmany H&SS students. He endangered
|A Student Senate roll call vote impeached Allison by a 21-7 vote.
Counseling Center crowded
fy KEVIN FEDARKO
[ Tartan Staffwriter
The waiting list at the Counseling & Stu
dent Development Center stood at 42 last 
week. According to Dr. Lorrie Rabin, direc|lor of the center, the list has been higher.
As Rabin sees it, the enormous influx 
stems not so much from a problem 
among students, as an increasing awareness 
within the university community of what 
the center has to offer.
Although there is always an increase 
around mid-semester, I think this year 
We ve got some terrific people who are doing 
a great job, and from one person telling 
another, the word has just gotten around, 
Rabin.
In addition to the confidential personal 
and career counseling which it offers, the 
nnseling Center has also put out several 
newsletters and is actively working with 
many of individual departments on 
camPus. This all reflects a changing attitude 
ln regard to personal consultation on the
part of administration and the academic 
community as a whole.
Rabin is pleased with this new attitude 
and is enthusiastic about her staffs role, but 
she stressed that the quality oLconsultation 
continued on page 6
the privacy and security of the university, 
and has shown disloyalty. Any good he may 
have done has been undermined by his 
recent actions. He is not properly represent
ing H&SS.
After ensuing discussion, roll-call vote was 
taken. Senate voted in favor of impeach
ment, 21-7, the exact number for 
impeachment.
Glenn Murray, a senior CFA senator, dis
agreed. By law% he did the right thing. You 
cant kick him off for a lack of common 
sense and compassion.
Congratulations, youve just burned 
another witch, yelled one Senator after the 
decision was announced.
MCS Senator Chuck Stobbie stated, He 
got what he deserved.
Dean of Student Affairs Braden L. Walter 
was bothered by Allisons decision not to 
come to Walter before seeking outer authori
ties. We take care of one another at this 
university and setde our problems inter
nally. If we cant settle our problems, then 
we ask for outside help.
It could have been avoided, explained 
Peter Corliss, a CFA senator.
But Allison feels the university has an 
obligation to uphold the law . If the lawr is 
not right, you should express your dissatis
faction with it. Until it is changed, you must 
abide by it.
^ The university is not above the law. I 
think anyone who has decency will agree. 
What is this, a moral issue? asked 
Elson, a senior from CFA. Nobody was
Allison told Pittsburgh his side of the story on KDKA television last Wednesday.
trying to break the law. Both deans and 
security were there.
Solano, a senior and president of Student 
Senate, was concerned about his future. I 
thought, was it gonna hurt my job-getting 
(ability)? 
Solano remembers how Allison, a writein candidate who tied Jeff Suzuki with five 
votes, was chosen as senator. We (Senate) 
debated for a long time. I fought in favor of 
him. Since Suzuki was already in trouble, it 
was only ethical.
Elson, Goldstein, and Kavoulakis also 
showed concern about their futures. Gold
stein remarked Dont ever ask me to bar
tend again.
A Bureau of Public Protection agent 
called Allison a snitch, expressing his 
concern over the senator's future, but Alli
son reaffirmed his position. I know theyll 
have trouble getting jobs, but I could not 
stand by and let the law be broken. The law 
is the most important thing.
On Friday, Allison and Kavoulakis 
appeared on the Fox radio program on 
KDKA radio. Kavoulakis said, We had 
grounds. We had a petition. 100 H&SS stu
dents said they were being misrepresented. 
Allison responded, There are many peo
ple who would have said you should have 
done this through the university. I think it 
has been brought to the forefront and now 
we have to deal with it.____________________
In this issue
News
Outsiders hired............................................page 2
Teachers get a raise.................................page 8
Features
Presidential Candidates............................page 7
UTC underway.......................................page 10
Entertainment
Neil Diamond concert.........................page 13
Album at Pitt............................................page 15
Sports
Tartan men lose two..............................page 17
Maulers begin season .........................page 20
Editorial
Freedom of the press............................page 24

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanFebruary 21, 1984
Drama majors protest hiring of outside help
By AMY MILLER
Tartan Staffwriter
Hiring theatrical workers from outside 
the university has led to a protest by drama 
production majors who think the move 
takes away from their educational 
experience.
If they keep on hiring people to build 
shows, theres no use having production 
majors, noted production student Adam 
Kushner. The objection he and other stu
dents had was spurred on by the hiring of an 
outside sound technician when there were 
students who felt they were capable of doing
an adequate job. They emphasized that the 
production option exists to give experience 
in building a show rather than to support a 
cast.
Several people suggested that current pro
ducuon majors are unwilling to put in more 
ume and are working less than previous
classes.
One student observed a generally low 
morale and lack of discipline among pro
ducuon majors. He felt that the department 
should offer more classes and have a larger 
faculty. Kushner, who participated in writ
ing a formal statement of objection to CFA 
Dean Akram Midani, noted, Were just try
ing to save the producuon opuon.
Professor Gary' English, teacher of Design 
and Producuon, commented, Under cer
tain circumstances, additional production 
support is advisable in order to maintain a 
balance between the production require
ment and the students curriculum.
Traditionally students do all of the pro
duction work, but the department felt stu
dents would be too heavily taxed by doing 
all production for recent plays such as
Legend of Lovers. ^
Department head Jerry Gray pointed 
that when crew starts to take up too m 
time three things can be done: the ur 
earned can be increased by the regist^ 
run of the show can be shortened, or outs 
people can be brought in.
Students however, thought that a sh< 
should be built entirely by producti 
classes. Senior production major DaStrang concluded, I dont see how it can 
justified that there are people who are bei 
paid for work that should be done by 
duction majors.
Admissions heading for biggest year in applications
More students are touring campus this year than ever before.
photo by Dan Simon
Find Out for Ourself.Get the inside story on the latest success in the computer industry, Tandem.
Tandem Computers has set new standards for reliability, data 
integrity, flexibility, and on-line processing for large-scale data 
processing. We pioneered the field of fault-tolerant computing. 
And with our new TXP !: system, weve taken on-line transaction 
processing further than anyone had imagined. As a result, busi
nesses and organizations around the world have made Tandem a 
rapidly growing, successful corporation.
An exemplary environment.
Beyond Tandems business success, however, the company has 
been cited as an example of innovative and effective management. 
These two elements-advanced products and outstanding 
management-create a work environment unlike any youll find 
elsewhere.
The Tandem Storv  March 1, 1984
Tandem representatives will present the Tandem Story-the com
pany^ history, where it is today, and its exciting plans lor the 
future. Its the ideal way to find out for yourself why beginning 
your career with Tandem is your first step toward success. Check 
your placement office for time and place. We are an equal opportu
nity employer, m f h v.
iH-m-m
Makers of TXR the most powerful on-line computer in business today
Tnnli-mark ol Taiwlt-m Com|tiU-r> Tn
By DANIEL DURKIN
Tartan Staffwriter
The total number of applications for 
admission to CMU for 1984 will exceed the 
total for any other year, said Dr. William 
Elliott, Vice President for Enrollment.
Elliott is quick to point out this has been 
the trend seven of the last eight years with 
1978 showing a slight drop in applicants.
There will be fewer Pennsylvanians 
attending CMU next year. The drop is due 
to decreasing high school graduates from 
Pennsylvania.
Carnegie-Mellons growing national 
appeal is also bringing in more applica
tions. CMU has been recruiting nationwide 
the last ten years, and results are finally 
being felt. Elliott points out the university is 
looking for quality students, and you dont 
run quotas, Thats not the way you run this 
thing.
In keeping with wide-range appeal, 
CMU held its first overseas exploratory 
recruiting drive in Western Europe this year. 
It is believed by Elliott that it will take about
four years for European students attrac 
by the drive to come to CMU.
Elliott offered two basic reasons why 
national appeal of CMU is growing. ( 
reason is that the computer environmeni 
CMU is excellent, and Elliott stated, 
are the competition. The second reasor 
that CMU is setting the pace for libel 
professional education. Elliott feels that 
integral part of the liberal/professional 
cation is the core curriculum, which 
significant body of knowledge that peo 
should have some mastery' of.
Elliot also hinted that the appeal ofQ 
might also be connected with the charai 
of the school itself. Elliot believes that 
being an elitist institution is one 
CMUs strengths, and he hopes the sch 
never does fit that category.
In Elliotts eyes, Camegie-Meilon has 
good balance of students from different 
nomic backgrounds. This balance accou 
for the diversity of the student populati 
which Elliott feels is the key to a g( 
university.
H&SS SOPHOMORES(& curious Freshmen)
Final Two sessions in the H&SS majors series
Tuesday, February 21, 4:30 p.m. in the 
HISTORY Conference Room (Baker 
Hall 246C): Come meet with faculty and students from the MODERN LANGUAGES program (German, 
French, Spanish, Italian)
Wednesday, February 22, 4:30 p.m. in 
the Adamson Wing (Baker Hall): Come 
meet with faculty and students from the SOCIAL SCIENCE Department 
programs in
 Public Policy and Management
 Information Systems
 Social Science/Political Science
Sponsored by the H&SS Academic Advisory Cen^

---------------------------------------------------

February 21, 1984The TartanPage 3
Repairs make CMU public transportation slow
By MICHAEL J. PILEWSKI
Tartan Photography Editor
Students who commute to Camegie\lellon have already noticed that the Pen
nsylvania Department of Transportation is 
once again working nearby.
Travelers through Oakland are faced 
with slow buses and a glut of automobile 
traffic. Conditions are expected to prevail for 
at least three months, while a portion of 
Boulevard of the Allies remains closed in the 
latest of PennDOTs road improvement 
projects.
For almost two weeks, the Boulevard has 
been entirely off limits to traffic between 
Seneca Street and Forbes Avenue, while 
workmen reconstruct winter ravaged sec
tions of ramps and highway. As a result, one 
fewer route is available to those who travel 
between Oakland and downtown.
Nineteen Port Authority bus routes have 
been detoured in order to avoid the construc
tion. The principal lines to CMU, 61 and 71, 
are unaffected in their direction but fact 
longer transit times because of increased 
traffic along their routes.
The 67 series is affected in direction as 
weel as time. The 672 have relied almost 
entirely upon the Boulevard to transport 
passengers from the business district to the 
university quarter. Prior to this month, 67 
bus could boast a transit time of seven min
utes between Downtown and Oakland. 
That time has almost tripled since construc
tion began.
Automobile traffic along Forbes and Fifth
SATURDAYS
PenDots road improvement projects make transportation slow for CMU commuters.
Avenues has become heavy enough to 
require a policeman to direct traffic near 
Craft Avenue. Forbes and Fifth, already 
known for vehicular standstills during rush 
hour, must accomodate an even heavier traf
fic flow as motorists who formerly traveled 
along the Boulevard of the Allies seek alter
nate routes to and from Oakland.
These events consume only one phase of a 
much larger plan. Shortly after the Boule
vard reopens in June, construction on the 
Parkway East will begin. Three miles of 
highway spanning the distance between 
Grant Street downtown and Bates Street in
Oakland will undergo land restrictions 
until November,- when the project is 
finished.
According to transportation officials, 35.5 
million-dollar undertaking is to provide sev
eral ramps which will enable drivers to cross 
the Parkway.
c7VIORE WOOD GARDENS
cyi Unique Concept ill University" Cuisine f
MARCH 3, 1984 
6 ^9pmuds
proudly" announces 
TTfle Qraqd Opeqing of

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanFebruary 21, 1984
Faculty salaries allocated
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Contributing Editor
The Resources Allocation Board of CMU 
has announced a 7% increase in the 1984- 
1985 budget for faculty salaries.
Although the official announcement has 
not been made to faculty, guidelines of the 
budget have been sent to deans of the four 
undergraduate colleges: H&SS, CIT, MCS, 
and CFA. Individual raises depend upon 
college and individual merits of each 
professor.
The increase in money allocated is com
parable to the budgetary increase for 1983- 
1984.
Recommendadons of the board have been 
approved by President Richard Cyert.
According to Fred Rogers, Vice-President 
of Business Affairs, money budgeted for 
salaries fluctuates from year to year, depend
ing on the national economy and university 
resource.
The number of faculty has increased from 
last year. However, when making the 
budget, the number of newr faculty is taken 
into consideration and is allocated money.
Beta holds fun fundraiser 
party for March of Dimes
By LISA BERUL
Tartan Staffwriter
The brothers of the Beta Theta Pi frater
nity held a party last Saturday as a fun
draiser for the March of Dimes.
A weedend trip for two to Seven Springs 
was the prize which provided incentive for 
students to make charitable donations.
Pre-Party tickets were available for $2, but 
the majority of them were purchased at the 
door. All of the proceeds went to the March
of Dimes. The drawing for the trip took 
place during the mixer and a student from 
Pitt was awarded the prize.
Beta had participated in their annual 
blood drive, but this was their biggest contri
bution to the community. Dave Richards, a 
brother who helped organize this fun
draiser, felt that It was a lot of fun for 
everyone involved, and it just gave us 
another chance to do something for the 
public.
a 7% budgetary increase
Senior Vice-President of Academic 
Affairs, J. Patrick Crecine, stressed that the 
increase is not an across-the-board increase.
The Resources Allocation Board is 
chaired by Crecine and includes Provost 
Angel Jordan, Rogers, and
tative Steven Fenves of the Department 
Civil Engineering.
From an economic view, Steven Klen 
professor of Social Science, commented tha 
the university budget is due to market f * 
ces and is subject to economic competiti0
Some desk jobs are 
more exciting than 
others.
As a Navy pilot 
or flight officer, your 
desk can be a sophis
ticated combination 
of supersonic jet air
craft and advanced electronic 
But you can handle it. Because Navy 
flight training gives you the navigation, 
aerodynamics and other technical 
know-how you need.
In return, Navy aviation demands 
something of you as an officer: 
Leadership.
Your path to leadership starts with 
officer training thats among the most 
demanding in the military. Its intensive 
leadership and professional schooling 
combined with rigorous Navy flight 
training. And its all geared to prepare
you and other college ______________
graduates for the 
unique challenge of 
Navy aviation. The 
program is tough but 
rewarding.
NAVY OPPORTUNITY W 343INFORMATION CENTER P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015
? Please send me more information about becoming a member of the Naval Aviation Tteam. (0A)
Name__________
One important 
reward for Navy 
officers is decision(Please Print)
Address. 
Citv____.State.
tYear in College.
AMajor/Minor__
Phone Number.
.+Col)ege/Uni versi ty_ 
_______*GPA
making authority^ - 
In the air, and on the 
ground, you have 
management responsi
bility from the begin
ning. And your 
responsibility grows 
as you gain experience, 
can give you this kind of 
leadership responsibility this fast. And 
nothing beats the sheer excitement of 
Navy flying.
The salary is exciting, too. Right 
away, youll earn about $18,300 a year. 
Thats better than the average corpora
tion will pay you just out of college.
And with regular Navy promotions and 
other pay increases, your annual 
salary will soar to $31,100 after four 
years. Thats on top of a full package 
of benefits and privileges.
Before you settle down to an earth_____________bound desk job, reach
for the sky. Reach for 
the coupon. Find out 
what it takes to be 
part of the Naval 
Aviation Ifeam. You 
could have a desk 
that flies at twice the 
speed of sound.
-Apt.
Best Time to CallI
 This is for general recruitment information You do not have to furnish any of the information requested Of course, the more we know, the more we can help to determine the kinds of Navy po*i| tions for which you qualify. |
Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast

---------------------------------------------------

Dear teaching staff,
KEEP ON:
-Encouraging particiption
-Communicating effectively
?' - 
-Being accesible 
-Showing your enthusiasm
-Beginning and ending promptly 
-Following the syllabus
From the Academic Response Program, 
Academic Affairs Committee,
Student Senate, and
The University Teaching Center Handbook
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanFebruary 21, 1984
Inter fraternity counsel aims at good communication
By RIC MEDROW
Tartan Editor in Chief
Interfratemity Council (IFC) has elected 
three new officers: President Bob Fishel, 
Secretary' I .nan Denny, and Treasurer Tom 
Koehler. The prime goal of the new execu
tive committee is to facilitate better 
communication.
Everybody must get to know each
other," said Fishel. When that happens, 
well be able to work together.
Fishel cites two reasons that communica
tion is important. There is a feeling within 
the Greek system that the rest of campus is 
anti-Greek, and that prevents us from doing 
much, said Fishel. But Im not looking at 
the past as far as any incidents. They hap
pened and we cant be defensive about them
now.
Fishel also feels that the reason people 
have a negative attitude toward fraterni
ties is they dont know what the frats do; they 
are on the outside. If Fishel can involve the 
rest of the campus in fraternity activities, 
we will be doing a lot more for the 
university.
One way Fishel is using to bring Greeks
and independents closer together is through 
an increasingly pro-Greek administration 
Dick Cyert, Pat Crecine, and Brad Walter * 
were all fraternity brothers in college.
Fishel is a junior in Economics at Theta 
Xi, while Denny is a junior at Kappa Kappa 
Gamma studying ECE and Koehler is a 
sophomore at Delta Upsilon 
mathematics.in
3 300graduates wanted
Air Force looking for engineering graduates as pilots
The United States Air Force is seeking Air Force Base, near San Antonio, Texas. earning up to $1,430 per month in pay and For complete details on officer pi 
more than 3 300 collets p-radnares nr npar After graduation from OTS, pilot selecallowances, said Van Jura. Pilots, navigacontact Van Jura at 644-2705 or in t
The United States Air Force is seeking 
more than 3,300 college graduates or near 
graduates to enter officer training school 
during 1984, according to Captain John G. 
Van Jura, Pittsburgh Air Force recruiter.
Nearly 715 engineers are included in this 
figure, says Van Jura. College students 
within nine months of graduating or recent 
graduates are encouraged to apply.
Pilot applicants without private pilots 
licenses attend a three-week flight screening 
program designed to acquaint them with 
fundamentals of flying. Applicants attend a 
12-week officer training school at Lackland
Air Force Base, near San Antonio, Texas.
After graduation from OTS, pilot selec
tees are assigned to one of seven undergradu
ate pilot training locations in Alabama, 
Arizona, Texas, Mississippi, or Oklahoma 
for an extensive flight training program up 
to 55 weeks in length. Navigator selectees 
attend 29 weeks of school at Mather Air 
Force Base, near Sacramento, California.
Many nonflying officers attend further 
training in their respective fields after gra
duation from OTS.
A married college graduate, newly com
missioned as a second lieutenant, may begin
earning up to $1,430 per month in pay and 
allowances, said Van Jura. Pilots, naviga
tors, and other officer flight crew personnel 
also receive $125 per month in flight pay.
For complete details on officer programs, 1 
contact Van Jura at 644-2705 or in the Keys
tone Bank Building, Suite 303, 3520 Fifth 
Avenue.
Technical jobs available
Counseling staff expands
continued from page 1
will not be sacrificed by expansion. The cen
ter is now in the process of hiring new per
sonnel, but until such time as viable people 
can be found, the present staff will be tack
ling the waiting list with longer hours.
Rabin also emphasized that in the event 
of an emergency, immediate attention is 
given to individuals who seek counseling. 
Lois Cox, associate dean erf Student Affairs,
agreed. If someone has an emergency, they
The Counseling Center is located on first 
floor, D-tower, Morewood Gardens. It is 
open to all undergraduate and graduate stu
dents as well as faculty and staff, free of 
charge. Appointments can be made by
phone at 578-2922 or in person. Hours are 
8:30 a.m.-12 p.m. and 1 p.m.-5 p.m.
are definitely not the forty-third person on 
that list.
By LISA SCHNECK
CPS Staffwriter
The job outlook for engineering and 
other technical majors appears to be much 
more optimistic than just a few months 
ago, a newly-released study of recruiting 
trends says.
Last year people were much more cau
tious, recalls Rea Christoffersson, spokes
woman for Petersons Guides, which just 
completed its survey of engineering, science, 
and computer jobs for 1984.
Engineering job offers  once the fastest 
growing and most highly paid of all job 
fields  droppped a whopping 50% last 
spring, according to the Scientific Man
power Commission. The decline was due 
primarily to the recession, and because new 
grads were taking the first offers they got 
instead of waiting for better offers to come 
along, analysts say.
Things look more promising for this
springs technical grads, however. Of the 
334 firms responding to Petersons survey, 
31% plan to hire more graduates in 1984 
than in the previous year. A year ago, only 
24% of the respondents planned an increase 
in hiring.
But competition is likely to be keen, 
Christoffersson points out. Seventy-two per
cent of the employers surveyed this year have 
tightened requirements for new employees. 
Over half intend to make fewer campus vis
its, and 34% say they wont make as many 
job offers to this years grads.
Moreover, 23% dont plan to increase start
ing salar ies for the class of 84, and 27% have 
set higher standards for job candidates, the 
survey reveals.
Of the 66 disciplines surveyed, planetary 
and space science majors are the leastrequested grads by employers, followed by 
textile engineering, astronomy, and technol
ogy and public policy majors.
IT'S NOT 
TOO LATE!
It's never too late to 
jointe Tartan staff. 
Come to Skibo 50:
Writers:
Monday 7:30 
Sunday all day
Production: 
Wednesday 7:30 
Sunday all day
No experience 
necessary.
The Find Your Face
Picture 
Place !
in the
February20-25
Are you there ?
If so - let us know.... 
Youve won a free meal!
uds
university
diningservice

---------------------------------------------------

Features
formei ambassador interviewed
Shevchenko talks about defecting from the U.S.S.R.
The following is an exclusive interview 
between The Tartan Editor in Chief Ric 
Uedrow and Arkady Schevchenko, the high
est ranking Sonnet official ever to defect to the
West.
Tartan: First of all, why did you come to 
fa United States? Why did you leave the
Soviet Union?
Shevchenko: There were several reasons, 
of course, why I decided to leave my country, 
which remains my Motherland, which were 
very painful and difficult decisions for me to 
make. Not only because I occupy a high 
official position. What does it pay anyone to 
leave his own country, or to leave and 
change the role your style of life and try to 
adjust to a new society. That is something 
that is extremely difficult and, in the case of 
the Soviet Union, its irreversible. Some
times the Americans dont quite clearly real
ize how much the Soviet government 
controls its population and dont allow peo
ple to go abroad, even if theyre not occupy
ing any kind of a political position or 
official positions. Not even their central 
peoplethey dont want to leave the coun
try. And basically they consider even the 
ordinary man, who would like to leave the 
country once in a while, for one reason or 
another, as a traitor. And especially, of 
course, they consider me as someone who 
defied the government  a senior position, as 
in the man who betrayed the comrades for 
wanting to enforce American secrets. I 
didnt betray my country and my people. I 
just consider that those who rule Soviet 
Unionthey betrayed the Soviet people. I 
have a substantial basic agreement about the 
Polish people for the Soviet government for 
years. As a young man I was a loyal commu
nist, a young man who was devoted to con
trols, a Party member for many years. And I 
think I had become a man who gets some 
experience at the different national arms of 
the Soviet government. But especially, liv
ing for many years abroad, in New York, 
Geneva and some of the United States, I had 
a unique opportunity, unlike most of the 
Soviet government officials, to go to a
country, which is considered by the Soviet 
Union their main adversary, and envy from 
the Soviet Union, a country that exploits all 
working class, a country which is responsi -
ble for all the troubles in the world, a coun
try' that is aggressive, fatalistic, that doesnt 
care at all about its people, a country' that 
has no democracy and the only government 
is communism, which is the best in the 
world. And after many years of my personal 
experience, I found the real truth that the 
mass media was totally controlled by the 
center for the government, didnt have any 
newspapers, didnt have any books which 
were not priced and for sale by the Soviet 
Union, had a mass media that was abso
lutely government controlled, and therefore 
most of my country men have a totally dis
torted picture of the society that exists in the 
West and I think they really believe that the 
Soviet Union has the best political system in 
the world.
Tartan: You think most of the people up 
there do?
Shevchenko: I would saydefintely true. In 
spite of some resentment that exists in our 
Soviet Union, especially about the eco
nomic situation, shortages of food, good 
quality consumer goods, spending an enor
mous amount of time in the lines. Their 
ability or disability to do something as to 
change are extremely limited. Let me just 
tell you the central fact. Yuri Andropov was 
the leader of the Soviet Union for 15 
months. He actually was a dead man for 13 
months. And no one was informed, even the 
people at the top echelon of the government.
Tartan: Did Chernenko know?
Shevchenko: Chomenko knew, the
members of the Politburro. Its about eleven, 
twelve people who knew what was going 
on. They didnt even tell the Soviet people 
what was going on with their leader. So you 
can imagine how little informed the Soviet 
population in general is as to whats going 
on everywhere. My problem all my life was 
that it happened I joined the Foreign 
continued on page 11
Hollings, Mondale, Hart & McGovern round out candidates
E. Hollings
By NEIL J. GREENBLUM
Tartan News Editor
South Carolina Senator Ernest Hollings 
may just be another Democratic candidate 
in mosts peoples eyes. But according to 
Mike Armstrong, Hollings D.C. coordina
tor, he is the most social-oriented and he 
knows how to administrate.
In his 17 years as a legislator, Hollings has 
developed the ability to work with govern
ment. He was the first governor to take 
South Carolinas state budget out of the red.
Earnest Hollings
He is very concerned about a budget freeze 
thats got to hit everyone. Very recently, 
Hollings came up with a plan for a viable 
budget that was turned down by the 
Republican-dominated Senate. We have to 
stop spending, stated Hollings.
Education is very important to Hollings. 
He would like to see educations budget 
increased, and a better government attitude 
toward education programs.
Hollings sees foreign policy and defense 
as two issues that work hand-in-hand. He 
says we have to firm up economic ties before 
we deal with defense. Hollings is not totally 
against nuclear weapons but he would like 
to see MX-missile money spent better. Hol
lings also wants the draft reinstated because 
he feels the army needs a different group of 
people. Its not fair for the army to pull 
from the poor, said Armstrong.
Concerning abortion, Hollings is prochoice. He feels there should be better plan
ning so the question of whether or not to 
have an abortion does not have to be faced. 
Hollings is also an advocate of other health 
issues such as nutrition and world hunger.
Hollings sees himself as an average 
Democrat: a litde bit moderate, a little bit 
liberal, and a great deal in between. He is 
most concerned with the internal problems 
of the United States, and what can be done 
about them now. You cant mortgage the 
future, affirmed Hollings.
W. Mondale
By VICTOR JAMES
Tartan Staffumter
Below is a synopsis of Democratic candi
date Walter Mondales views on the issue of
the military, the economy, foreign policy, 
education, abortion, and the presidency.
Defense. Mondale feels the biggest prob
lem facing the U.S. over the next decade is 
potential nuclear menace. He would like to 
reduce the risk of major power confronta
tions which may lead to proliferation. 
Hence, Mondale advocates a mutual verifi
able nuclear freeze and institutionalized sum
mit conferences with the Soviet Union.
As for specific defense policy, Mondale 
would cancel the B-l Bomber and the MXMissile and would proceed with the Midgetman Missile. He disagrees with Reagans 
policy on development of the Navy. Mon
dale feels that such choices need to be made 
so we may scale down defense spending. He 
wants a strong, but sensible defense.
Economy. Mondale sees Reaganomics as 
the deliberate creation of the present 
deficit. He claims that U.S. deficit of $200 
billion a year saddles our generation with 
years of burden. Mondales plan to lower the 
deficit includes several steps:
1. Scaling the defense budget to reality. 
(That is, limit increases for the military to 4 
or 5% a year).
2. Managing the U.S. farm program sensi
bly to bring down farm program costs.
3. Installing a national health care cost 
containment measure to prevent swelling 
health costs.
4. Reducing the interest charges by raising 
revenue.
5. Cutting back of all unnecessary govern
ment spending.
As for changes in Federal EntiUements 
(i.e. Medicare, Social Security), Mondale 
thinks that the present Social Security sys
tem is in good shape. I wouldnt touch it, 
he claims.
However, Mondale would reform the 
health, care repertoire. He feels we need 
national health care cost containment. He 
would like to encourage new and better pro
grams to enter the system so as to drive up 
the competition in these areas; thereby res
training costs.
For the jobless, Mondale has proposed a 
jobs plan that will cost at least $5 billion. He 
continued on page 8
Walter Mondale

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanFebruary 21,1984
Mondale, Hart are pro-choice on abortion
continued from page 7
has suggested subsidizing U.S. industries 
that compete with government-backed for
eign concerns, matching trade subsidies 
product for product, dollar for dollar.
Mondale would also initiate a progressive 
restoration in revenues. He feels it necessary, 
in some cases, to institute negative income 
takes for some people and corporations (this 
will be spelled out in detail dumg his 
campaign).
Foreign Policy. Mondale wishes to shape 
good foreign policy that assures long-term 
healthy economic growth and to inject U.S. 
markets into world competitiveness.
One of Mondales major foreign policy 
objectives is to confront the Soviet Union. 
Mondale points out that there hasnt been a 
serious discussion between the Soviet Union 
and the heads of the U.S., really, since 74. 
And he feels that that is very, very 
dangerous.
In order to reduce tensions between the 
U.S. and U.S.S.R., Mondale calls for a mut
ual verifiable freeze. He would resubmit 
SALT II. He would leave the ABM treaty in 
tact, start negotiation on an antisatellitespace-war treaty, and would try to negotiate 
some kind of chemical and biological war
fare agreement. But most importandy, he 
would try to institutionalize U.S.-Soviet 
summits.
In the Middle East, Mondale backs a 
strong relationship with Israel. He feels we 
need a public, strategic, cooperative rela
tionship with Israel. If he were president, 
Mondale would eventually replace Ameri
can Marines with United Nation forces, 
other third world forces, and certainly with 
Lebanese forces. Finally, he would increase 
pressure on Syria to quit Lebanon.
In Central America, Mondale would
reverse Reagans emphasis in every respect. 
One: he would strive to gain additional sup
port from U.S. allies in the region: the Mexi
cans, Costa Ricans, Panamanians, 
Colombians, Venezuelans and the Contadora group. Two: he would campaign for a 
stronger sense of human right throughout 
the continent. Three: he would terminate 
the covert action in Nicaragua. He would 
interdict any efforts on their part to invervene in El Salvador. In El Salvadore, he feels 
we must press for law, reform, and for the 
end of the assassination squads. Overall, 
Mondale woul.d push for a non
intervention agreement throughout the 
Isthmus.
Abortion. Very simply, Mondale is prochoice.
Education. Mondale points out that 
though the Education Budget hasnt been 
technically cut back (i.e. the Federal 
budget for education in 1980, 81, 82 held at 
$14.8 billion. In 1983, it approached $15.3 
billion.), if inflation is taken into account, 
the conclusion that Predident Reagans 
term in office has brought about severe cut
backs in major federal education programs 
is inescapable.
Thus Mondale proposes to step up the 
Federal Education Budget and appropriate 
funds to special educational programs.
G. Hart
By RIC MEDROW
Tartan Editor in Chief
46-year old Colorado Senator Gary Hart 
is running on a platform of a new genera
tion of leadership with his greatest areas of 
expertise lying in the military, federal 
spending, the environment, and public 
works, having served on Senate committees 
dealing with these four subjects.
YOUR 
EDUCATION 
DOESNT 
STOP 
HERE
Your education doesn't stop with a baccalaureate degree It begins 
there. Once you enter the world of work, you will gain valuable ex 
perience and really discover what it s all about to use what you learned 
in college
Take the Air Force for example As a commissioned officer you'll be 
handed executive responsibility on your very first assignment. You 11 
manage peopie and complex systems Y ou 11 be expected to perform 
well, and you'll be paid well. too. It s worth working for 
You can get there through the Air Force ROTC program. In fact, we 
have a scholarship plan that will net you $100 a month tax free and 
pay for all tuition, books and lab and incidental fees And that will free 
you to concentrate on your studies so you can get well prepared for 
where you re headed 
Check it out Find out how you can get into a graduate program 
like the Air Force It s a great way to serve your country, and possibly 
find your formal education extended at Air Force expense as well
For information call 578-8747
ROTC
Gotewoy to o greot woy of life.
EconomyLike most candidates, Harts 
main thrust is to decrease interest rates, 
budget deficits and unemployment. What is 
new is his two-fold plan for accomplishing 
those tasks.
For short run relief, Hart would recom
mend extensive worker retraining pro
grams. It is his belief that, while technology' 
is creating new jobs, the jobs are not in the 
old areas. So workers must be trained anew.
In the long run Hart has three methods in 
mind for solving American economic 
difficulties:
Emerging growth industries would be 
stimulated by removing unnecessary 
government regulation.
Hart would repeal laws that currently 
make it illegal to invest money that is ear
marked for pensions. The money would 
then go under government guarantee, much 
as savings accounts are guaranteed. That 
money would then be free for investment.
A 15-year Infrastructure Investment 
Program would put people to work on 
public works projects, rebuilding roads, 
bridges and water systems.
Hart strongly opposes Mondales Domes
tic Content Legislation that would oudaw 
the sale of any product in the United States 
that is not made with a certain percentage of 
American-made materials. Hart feels that 
besides being a direct attack on the Ameri
can free trade system, it would do little more 
than cause a trade war with our allies.
Gary Hart
According to Bruce Ledewitz, a Hart cam
paign director, Hart does not minimize 
Reagans success on inflation, but he (Rea
gan) didnt do anything to cushion the, 
blow.
DefenseHart is opposed to both 
increases and decreases in military spend
ing. What Hart sees as the prime goal in 
defense is a reapportionment of money. He 
has voted against the B1 bomber, the MX 
missile, all forms of chemical warfare, and 
continued on page 9UDS livens up lunchtime, 
begins "Lunch TV Lively'
By NEAL W. JOHNSTON
Tartan Features Editor
Ever feel that Friday afternoon was bor
ing? Only a transition from the long week to 
a party weekend? Well, spruce up that time 
of day with Lunch N Lively, UDSs way of 
saying Hey, lets wind down the busy 
week. Where do you find this, you ask? 
Read on.
Dining Service officials noted that some 
periods during lunch hours were a bit slow 
in Morewood Gardens. To liven them up, 
entertainment was decided to be the cure. An 
ad, posted in Fine Arts, asked for seniors and 
grad students to play on Friday afternoons 
for one hour.
One has to realize this action would be 
entirely volunteer-oriented. That is, no pay.
However, an incentive was present  five 
free meals a week. According to Greg Maskalick, a pianist who played last Friday 
those three lunches and two dinners come 
in handy. And you only have to play one 
hour for it.
Making it clear that food isnt the only 
reward, Maskalick comments on the enjoy 
ment of playing. Its fun. And besides I get 
to practice some new music. I can try it out 
and polish it up. Id hate to play a gig and 
screw something up.
Evidently, he and his fellow musicians 
must be doing a good job. Rochelle Koch, 
manager of Morewood Gardens, is pleased. 
We serve more than students here and its 
nice to present a pleasant atmosphere at 
lunchtime. Kochs main thrust is to build 
up the down times at Morewood during 
lunch.
Its been great so far with all the events 
weve had. Students keep telling me they 
love them and ask whats next, comments 
Koch.
Now Friday afternoons dont have to beso 
dull. During that period of lunchtime before 
final classes and the weekend, some relief 
can be had. Lunch N Lively, between 12 
and 2 p.m., should add some spirit to your 
energy-lacking bodies.
UDSs most recent event: Dinner with the Don.

---------------------------------------------------

February 21, 1984The TartanPage 9
A complete professional 
computer-aided design and 
drafting system for only $9,995:
For architects, engineers, system designers and others who require 
a low-cost design and drafting capability
Includes:
 The Texas Instruments 
Professional Computer 
with 256K memory
 L-o.il 320K disk Drives
 Color Display and 
Graphics Bo<.rd
The capabilities or th 
can only be apr 
visit our showro
 Numerical Co-Processor, 
Digitizer and Plotter
 AutoCAD'M Software 
with advanced drafting 
package
 Imtial Training and Support
i, AutoCAD design and drafting system 
'. > /:ng it k*. ourself We invite you to 
<4 hands-on demonstration
AUTO
*not including tax
'COMPUTER RESEARCH inc
Two A>rport Office Park 
(Near Greater Pittsburgh Airport) 
400 Rouser Road 
Pittsburgh. PA I5I08
(412) 262-4430
^Figurative Architect"
Graves gives an understanding" to every level
continued from page 8
the Reagan Star Wars Space Plan.- 
Instead, Hart would like to see more money 
spent on training servicemen and increasing 
salaries in order to retain well-trained
personnel.
He also supports negotiations as a means 
toward a mutual, verifiable freeze on nuclear
weapons.
Foreign AffairsGary Hart was the first 
senator to oppose the invasion of Grenada. 
He also opposed sending troops to Lebanon 
and opposes military aid in Central
America.
Harts main policy thrust would be diplo
matic and economic aid to those countries 
observing human rights, which does not 
currently include El Salvador or South 
Africa, according to Hart.
EducationOn the primary and secon
dary levels, Hart would provide incentives 
for school districts to expand mathematics, 
science, foreign languages, and computer 
studies. He would also reinstate the school 
lunch and Title I programs.
At a college level, he would increase stu
dent loan programs and enforcement of 
pay-back provisions. This is one reason that 
Ledewitz believes that Mondale does not 
represent the future of the Democratic 
party, while Hart does.
AbortionPro-choice.
OtherOne area that Hart feels strongly 
about is the environment. He was the first 
member of Congress to call for banning 
landfill disposal of hazardous waste and for 
measures to reduce acid rain.
According to Ledewitz, this is one reason 
Hart is so far behind in the polls. Maybe he 
should agree with everybody like Mondale, 
but he (Hart) is willing to take unpopular 
positions when he feels something is 
wrong.
G. McGovern
By FELICIA PRATTO
Tartan Staffivriter 
George McGovern has already achieved 
ne of his goals in entering the Democratic 
presidential race: he has influenced the 
debate. His candidacy has made the oncePpular idea of negotiation and citizen 
domestic policy popular against a proroilitary president and Democratic
contenders.
Defense. McGovern believes a 20-25% 
Auctions in the Defense budget would 
the nation happier and more secure. 
ough he realizes it is politically unpopur> McGovern is willing to take a firm stand 
the Congress to halt funding for the 
^ missile, the B-1 bomber, and the deploy^ent of cruise and Pershing II missiles.
, r> he would have a one-year freeze on 
e Production and deployment erf nuclear 
WeaPns with the hope the Soviet Union
would follow suit. McGovern believes that 
such a first step could help reverse the deteri
oration of US-USSR relations and be as 
effective as a similar US move in 1960 which 
led to the signing of the Atmospheric Test 
Ban treaty within 60 days.
Foreign Policy. McGovern does not sup
port unilateral disarmament, but would 
aggressively pursue significant reductions 
of U.S. troop deployments and nuclear weap
ons, and verifiable treaties with the 
Soviets. As an indication of his campaign 
proposition that The age of big-power 
intervention in the internal affairs of small 
countries is over, he would cease all mil
itary aid to Central America, and revert to 
using force as a last resort. Coexistence and 
diplomacy would replace cold war relation 
with Cuba, the USSR, and the rest of the 
world.
Domestic Policy. On domestic policy, 
McGovern believes the deficit is a real, not a 
politically manufactured, threat to America. 
To help reduce it, he would freeze entitle
ment programs for 3-4 years and reform the 
tax laws. Philanthropy would be the only 
allowed deduction for individuals and busi
nesses, but the highest tax rate would be 30%. 
He would also drastically reduce price 
supports for farm goods, but rather would use 
additional food to increase nutrition 
programs.
Education. In planning for Americas 
future, McGovern would restore the cuts 
made in the Federal education budget, and 
would have low-interest repayment done 
through the IRS. He also would provide 
funds for energy research, especially to 
develop coal resources. And hed like a 
continued on page 11
George McGovern
affective transitions between all four.
Stunned by the moralizing of modem 
architects, Graves feels it is time to reevalu
ate the equity between what is thought of as 
functional by our society and society 300-400 
years before.
Senate elects 
a new officer
By LISA BERUL
Tartan Staffwriter
The Student Senate elected Frank Orgain 
last week to the position of treasurer for the 
remainder of this year.
Four candidates submitted petitions 
which required 50 signatures. They each 
campaigned at a senate meeting discussing 
why he or she would be the best qualified 
person to fill the position. Each candidate 
was cross examined, and finally a decision to 
elect Orgain was reached. Orgain, a fresh
man, is currently active in SDC and cochairman for this years Spring Carnival. 
'Orgain hasnt had much experience with 
being a treasurer previously, but has some 
background in bookkeeping. He is anxious 
to use the skills I already have in the years 
to come.
Aware that the position is very time con
suming, he is willing to dedicate much of 
his time and energy to the senate. Orgains 
duties include conferencing with the 
finance committee and keeping track of all 
funds. This is to make sure that each group 
given funds stays out of trouble from over
spending the allotted budget.
Orgain concluded, I am very eager to do 
a good job and very glad they chose me.
By SUSAN MELLING %
Tartan Staffumtrr
What we do as architects is rearrange 
things: windows, doors and walls. Thats 
all  So said post-modem architect Michael 
Graves who spoke at Carnegie Institute, 
February 8th as part of the Man and Ideas 
Lecture Series. But, said Graves, at the 
same time I want to give an understanding 
to all levels. I dont want to participate in a 
private architecture. A witty, well-poised 
Graves conveyed this message to the 
audience amidst a clutter of sarcastic criti
cisms and light-hearted jokes. The back
bone of his presentation was a slide show
providing an analysis and comparison of 
his own work and that of other architects.
After a hearty dinner in the Hall of Casts, 
Graves came prepared to enlighten and 
amuse the sold-out crowd at Carnegie Music 
Hall. Addressing both students and archi
tects present, he began with a look at archi
tecture as an analogy to literature. As 
literature has both a standard and poetic 
form, similarly does architecture. The stand
ard form of prose is seen in those buildings 
which merely accommodate and the poetic 
form paralleled in those works which go 
beyond the sheer craft and bring in the sym
bolic interests of the culture. According to
Hart represents the future, 
McGovern influences debate
Graves, It is up to the architect to put both 
the pragmatic and symbolic together. 
Graves spoke of the modernist movement 
as producing buildings that alienate the 
man on the street. Buildings which are 
merely functional and of a private lan
guage. With specific references to moder
nist architects Le Corbusier and Mies Van 
der Rohe, he reassured the audience of the 
need for a more historical, lively aesthetic in 
architecture, as exhibited in his recent work. 
Graves particularly stressed the need for a 
hierarchical sense. Architecture is dead, 
said Graves, without a hierarchical signifi
cance in buildings. There needs to be a 
definite floor, ceiling, wall and soffit, with
Michael Graves

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanFebruary 21, 1984
UTC helps teachers teach
The goal is "to establish a culture of teaching that runs parallel with one of research"
By BILL GARRISON
Tartan Staffivriter
The University Teaching Center, located 
at 228A Porter Hall, was initiated by CMU 
in January, 1983, with veteran faculty 
member Edwin Fenton as director. Accord
ing to Dr. Fenton, the goal of the UTC is to 
establish a culture of teaching that runs 
parallel to a culture of research.
Assisted by two graduate student interns, 
Fenton began to gather information into the 
ways teaching at CMU can be improved, 
and developed programs based on what he 
learned. He polled faculty members, gradu
ate and undergraduate students, and admin
istrators, to explore the need for individual 
programs and drew up a set of plans for the 
1983-84 academic year.
Some of the major points in these plans 
include a seminar for graduate students 
who teach in the summer school program, 
which is aimed specifically at improving 
their level of instruction in this program. 
This is done through a series of critiquing 
video-tapes of graduate students teaching 
and then providing a set of corrective rec
ommendations to .them and to the adminis
tration for improving that teaching. Other
aspects of the plans are a workshop in late 
August for new faculty members and a com
prehensive program of video-taping and 
critiquing all faculty members who teach in 
four departments, one in each of the four 
undergraduate colleges. Also, there will be a 
series of six University lectures about teach
ing, and the development of a Handbook for 
faculty members and Teaching Assistants, 
which has already been distributed through
out the instructional staff.
With this program, the Teaching Center 
has been widely accepted as a useful organi
zation doing vital work in the four under
graduate colleges and two graduate schools 
There has also been an abundance of evi
dence that this program does in fact improve 
teaching. For example, a number of faculty 
members who have been video-taped, have 
later indicated specific changes in instruc
tion which they have made, changes which 
appear clearly in follow-up video-tapes.
At present though, the Center cannot be 
fully effective given its present staffing. The 
present staff, drawn entirely from H&SS 
lacks expert knowledge in engineering 
science, management, and fine arts which a 
continued on page 11
Jodi's gonna make it with the 
help of family and friends
By MICHELE ANDERSON
Special to The Tartan
So who is Jodi? And w hat is she going to 
win? Jodi is a nine-year-old girl from Swissvale who is going to win the fight against 
sickness and learn to walk, talk, and live all 
over again. About three years ago, Jodi was 
stricken with a virus infection in her kid
neys, which somehow spread through the 
rest of her body. She was diagnosed as being 
blind and brain damaged, and chances for 
her recovery appeared slim. That was three 
years ago. Today, it is apparent that Jodi is 
not blind. She sits up, stands in a specially 
designed box, and can eat food orally instead 
of with a feeding tube to her stomach. Aston
ishingly, on her last visit to the Spitz Clinic, 
the doctors informed her parents that her 
brain scan and EEG indicated much 
improvement. Jody is recovering!!
She is a part of the Spitz clinic Patterning
and Programming Rehabilitation Pro
gram, which for Jodi involves four hours a 
day, EVERY DAY, of physical and visual 
therapy. The therapy workouts are for 
two hours at a time; 1:00 to 3:00 in the 
afternoon, and 6:30 to 8:30 in the evening. 
Volunteers come for just tw-o hours, one day 
each week, and each session needs at least 
five volunteers. To keep up this program, 
Jodi needs more volunteers to commit this 
time to her only once a week-for even just a 
semester or for a summer. We cant empha
size enough just how much Jodis future prog
ress depends on the volunteers. No 
experience is neccessary, and anyone is wel
come to come.
Four students from CMU and several 
from Pitt have committed two hours a week 
to helping Jodi. We have seen Jodi improv
ing in just the few months that we have been 
helping her, and we know that she will
photo by Erik Horn
Jodi and several of the volunteers that help her.
continue to get better. It is a real joy to get to and ourselves care. For more infomation, 
know Jodi, and it gives us a deep sense of call Judy or Michele at x8618, Sheila at 
accomplishment to know that we have perx4573, or Joanne at x4818. 
sonally helped Jodi get better. We feel With the kind of care Jodi is receiving, 
almost like she is coming back to life again Jodis gonna win the most important fight 
just because her family, friends, volunteers, of all: the fight for life.
Dont let the little guys fool you!
Youve tried the rest . . . Now try the BEST!
CAPRIPIZZA
For FRIENDLY 
service and 
DELICIOUS food
We use TRUE 
MOZARELLA cheese 
 DO OTHERS?
Mon. - Sat. 5 - 2 a.m. 
Sundays 3 - 2 a.m.
Larqe L a rqe 
+txxA ONly
$2.99 + tax
Plus 2 FREE liters of. Pepsi 
FREE delivery 7 days a week
This price for lunch/dinner Eat in or order out.
3415 Forbes Ave., Oaklandtele: 681 -2202, 2203

---------------------------------------------------

February 21, 1984The TartanPage 11
Shevchenko sees Soviet Union as similar to the U.S.
continued from page 7
Service. I didnt like that. I found, at that 
time, the interest of the country as a thing 
which was known to yield to disarmament 
and other areas. I sincerely tried to be helpful 
and to make my contribution to controls or 
limitation of the arms race and to the peace 
in general. In the years I found that my 
illusions dissipated from year to year. The 
higher I was in the Soviet bureaucracy the 
less illusions I had about the sincerity of the 
Soviet policy. Such a tremendous discrepency between what they say for the West 
and what they really mean. I found that the 
Soviet government never wanted any kind
of disarmament, prose upon which I had 
begun my career. I found that the Soviet 
leadership considered military potential 
as having tremendous strategic nuclear arse
nal to make them a super power. Without 
that they would be a second rated power. 
And that is the main weapon that makes 
them a big power and role player in the world 
at hand. And its a political weapon to use as 
a political weapon. I dont suggest that they 
wont have to use their power. No.
Tartan: You dont think so?
Shevchenko: No, I dont think so. I think 
they consider that to be something that gives 
them the status of a super power and a posi
tion in the world for what they want to do.
Tartan: You think theyre just as 
afraid of using nuclear weapons as we are?
Shevchenko: Yes, theyre afraid of using 
nuclear weapons. They realize that a nuclear 
war would mean our mutual destruction, a 
war which no vital, political or industrial 
centers would survive. Whoever would start 
the war, but the one thing is to abandon 
(GARBLE). That should be, we would be 
willing to recommend some kind of control 
level, but because there are also those, 
not willing to spend too much 
money who will distort all the economical
UTC aims to incorporate responsibility
continued from page 10
fully effective Center must draw. According 
to Fenton, increasing the size of the central 
staff in CMUs Teaching Center will not 
solve the problem. Instead, CMU proposes 
to keep only one half-time professional  
the Director  and to supplement the staff 
each semester with four Teaching Center 
Associates. These Associates will be senior 
faculty members who will be relieved of 
their teaching responsibiliues for one semes
ter in order to intern in the Center. The 
general aim of the UTC is at all people and 
to incorporate a diffusion of responsibility, 
not an over-sized, centralized, little em
pire,  Fenton explained.
There has been substantial progress in 
this teacher-evaluatory program since its 
incepdon, expecially in the English and Sta
tistics Departments, where video-taping of 
TAs and faculty members, and individual 
teacher-to-TA evaluations have been well 
under way.
The UTC and CMU are currently 
requesting $213,678 during a three-year 
period from the Andrew W. Mellon Foun
dation to support this comprehensive pro
gram of faculty improvement. During these 
three years, CMU will allocate $346,690 
from its own budget for teaching activities
and to maintain the center when the pro
posed grant runs out.
This vital Center has received full cooper
ation by the Universitys administration, 
particularly the President, the Senior VicePresident for Academic Affairs, the Provost 
and all the Deans and Associate Deans. But 
to be a successful Center, it needs the full 
cooperation of students who, after all, are 
why the UTC has been established. Fenton 
urges all students to participate in this. If a 
student has any suggestions or comments 
on a particular teacher or aspect of teaching, 
please feel free to call Professor Fenton at 
x2935.
Franzetta helps entry-level personnel
Charles M. Franzetta, president, Franzetta 
Associates, State College, PA, has 
announced the institution of college recruit
ment of entry level personnel to meet spe
cific corporate criteria. Entry level searches 
will be conducted individually on a nation
wide basis similar to existing executive 
search but utilizing Americas colleges and 
universities as the primary source of talent.
Searches done by the firm will be com
pleted for a flat $1000 fee for bachelor 
degrees and will carry a limited three month 
continued on page 12
worry, so but it is an illusion and only 
naive people can believe that the Soviet 
Union is ready for disarmament. It is just 
one example of how that among other 
things which has started in my career proved 
to be false that the government perceives was 
very far from sincere, a real approach which 
he and some of which was in the interest of 
my people and the interest of other people. 
There are many others coming in here talk
ing about the United Nations and only 
when their sort of government is interested 
and can use the United Nations for their 
own purposes, then they show that when
ever the United Nations is important very 
real,which they totally ignore. They will 
put a lot of intelligence people and use 
them, which I always consider it best to use 
them for spying or for operations in this 
country and I have as my subordinates more 
than half of the people that ever have w hich 
were agents and I saw also many of the 
things were trying to work the operations. 
In addition there also was the Secretary of 
the United Nations which should be a 
secret. And for what?
McGovern is 
a pro-choicer
continued from page 9
public-private national railroad system 
developed by 2000.
McGovern is not especially interested in 
the abortion issue. He opposes Rose vs. 
WTade but is pro-choice because he believes a 
healthy, safe option must be available. He 
is actively interested in Vietnam veterans, 
blacks, the unemployed and under
employed, and passing the Equal Rights 
Amendment.
photo by Eric Targan
The Explorers Club practice kayaking in the Gym, a necessary skill for many of their 
outings.
Free
Walk-In Tutoring Service
Every Mon., Tues., Wed., Thurs. 
7 p.m. - 10 p.m.
Writing 
Calculus 
Chemistry 
Physics 
H&SS Math 
Philosophic Methods/ Baker 235A
Baker 229B 
Porter 225C 
Baker 245 
Porter 226B 
Porter 226C
Social Values
Sponsored by Counseling & Student Development Center, Division of Student Affairs.
MCbREPlZZA!
more often....
Free medium coke with a purchase ol any sandwich.
Come and get it at these Magic l imes:
Sunday 6 * 8pm 
Mon.'Thurs. 9*11 pm
M&REPIZZA!
offer void on deliveries
uds
university
dining
service

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanFebruary 21, 1984
Company matches employee to employer
continued from page 11
warranty. If for any reason either party 
decides to terminate the relatinship during 
the first three months of employment, a new 
search will be completed free of charge. 
Appropriate attention to each specific 
situation should eliminate the need for 
second searches, stated Franzetta, How
ever, should we not achieve a match which 
proves suitable for both parties through the 
probationary period, we feel that it is our 
obligation to make a second effort to satisfy 
the firms requirement. Further, we feel 
compelled to counsel the displaced 
employee on securing permanent 
employment.
Franzetta Associates conducts executive 
searches at a 15% fee for all but some highly 
technical requirements, which occasionally 
necessitate higher rates. Fees will only be 
collected for firms employing Franzetta 
Associates to conduct searches. Under no 
circumstances will employee candidates be 
charged for any employer introductions.
The growing cost in terms of manpower 
and out-of-pocket expenditures for campus 
recruiting has gready restricted most corpo
ration from doing much, if any, such 
recruiting for a specific requirement at the 
time such a need is identified. Usually com
panies are forced to settle on candidates who 
come through the door or who happen to 
respond to help wanted ads. The costs of 
reviewing resumes and interv iewing candi
dates usually proves to be extremely expen
sive and, all too frequently, futile. The impact 
of hiring the wrong employee usually 
results in both long and short term costs 
which are irretrievable.
Franzetta Associates aim is to eliminate 
these difficulties and costs by providing 
firms with a select few candidates, all of 
whom approximate the specific criteria 
required. Doing so for a fee less expensive 
than employment agency rates and provid
ing a limited warranty on its selection, Fran
zetta Associates hopes to make the service 
both attractive and accessible to companies 
of all sizes. For firms desiring such, a retainer 
arrangement will be made for ongoing 
activity.
The objective of each search is the fulfill
ment of three obvious criteria all of equal 
value. All recommendations for hire will be 
based on the employers immediate need of 
talent and that talents timely availability. 
Candidates recommended must display a 
reasonable potential to satisfy expanded 
mid-term requirements of the firm. Addi
tionally, the employment opportunity must
satisfy the candidates specific short term 
requirements while realistically offering 
longer term growth according to the indi
viduals real expectations and abilities.
To companys president, Charles M. 
Franzetta, brings to the firm an extensive 
background of business experience, having 
held executive positions in the transporta
tion, publishing and electronics industries'. 
He also acts as a corporate consultant with 
specific emphasis on organization, market
ing and logistics. Further, he is retained as 
an instructor by Pennsylvania State 
University to conduct a career search 
seminar program at the schools University 
Park Campus. He will remain directly 
involved in search activities and will give 
final approval prior to all candidate recom
mendations to subscribing firms.
The career search program has been mod
ified for a one day workshop and will be 
offered to the public in seminar form at 
various locations throughout the United 
States. A schedule of these seminars, for 
which only a minimal fee will be charged, 
will be announced shortly. This program is 
designed to assist college seniors and juniors 
to identify easily their specific shortand 
long-term career interests, the markets 
which will satisfy those interests, to sell themACQUIRE A UNIQUE PERSPECTIVE AT LITTON DATA SYSTEMS
If youd like to begin your computer engineering career with a company that looks at 
everything from all angles and explores even the most remote possibilities, come to Litton Data 
Systems.
Ever since computer technology was recognized as a vital part of military operations, Litton 
Data Systems has been searching for new ways to meet the challenging needs of our nations 
defense systems. We are dedicated to continuous research and development in the application 
of modem software and circuit technologies to command, control and communications (c3) 
systems that provide greater performance reliability, maintainability and cost efficiency.
As one of the largest divisions of Litton Industries international family, we can get your software 
or hardware engineering career off to a great start with opportunities in a variety of programs. 
This diversity offers continuous possibilities for challenge and advancement within the company.
Our salaries are excellent and our benefits package includes health, dental and life insurance, 
recreational programs and educational reimbursement. Youll also find our Southern California 
location very appealing.
If you would like to be a part of a company thats never satisfied with things as they are, join Lit
ton Data Systems and acquire our unique perspective.
Cam pas Interview March 7
Forward your resume to:
Jim Robertson 
Staffing & Placement 
Dept CM 
8000 Woodley Avenue 
Van Nuys, CA 91409 
Equal Opportunity Employer
ffl CMIA SYSTEMS
Morning After 
Treatment
"j s<*( ond ( hjn( <* 
jf birth control
I OK MOKI IMOKMAIION ( All
362-2920
V
Allegheny Women's Center
Avdildblt* dt
Medkil Center il Buttonift Penthouse Right (Sth floor) 211 North WhiriieM Street Pittsburgh, PA 15206
QUALITY TYPING
These, resumes and personalized cover 
letters. 
Done Quickly at reasonable rates. 
M.J. Martz Typing 
and
Professional Service 
401 Wood St Suite 701 
Pgh. PA 15222, 471-0562
selves successfully within those markets 
and, during those first critical months of 
employment, to achieve an advantage 
toward early promotion over competition
Franzetta indicated that the seminar pro
gram was designed to provide a specific for
mat for which any degree candidate might 
reasonably expect to successfully initiate his 
or her career. Rather than settling on a job 
anybody willing to dedicate the same effort 
needed to get an A in an upper level three 
credit course can select among several career 
opportunities which meet his or her specific 
interests.
Franzetta continues, We find it incredi
ble that so many of our young people work 
extremely hard for four years of their lives 
and spend tens of thousands of dollars on 
education and then settle on a job. We feel 
that with reasonable effort, direction and 
structure, all degree candidates can identify 
their specific career interests and fulfill 
them, thus making the expenditure of time 
and money worth the effort.
Resumes noting both major and cumula
tive grade point averages are now being 
accepted. Write: Franzetta Associates, P.O. 
Box 11111, Calder Square, State Co liege, PA 
16805.Hine photos 
on display
The Hunt Library will display photo
graphs by Lewis Hine, Reformer with a 
Camera, from Monday, Feb. 6 through | 
Sunday, March 18.
The Library of Congress traveling exhibi* 
tion includes 61 of Hines works which doc
ument child labor conditions in the United 
States in the early 1900s. As a social chron
icler of his times, Hire used disguises and 
other means to photograph the poor work
ing and social conditions of child laborers. 
His pictures were instrumental in the pas
sage of the Child Labor Law in 1916.
Bom in Oshkosh, Wis., Hine attended the 
University of Chicago and taught at the pro
gressive Ethical Culture School in New 
York. In 1908, he resigned from teaching to 
become an investigative reporter for the 
National Child Labor Committee, which 
attempted to initiate legislative action as 
well as sway public opinion.
The display, on the fourth floor of Hunt 
Library, is open to the public without 
charge from 8 a.m. to midnight, Monday to ^ 
Thursday; 8 a.m.to 9 p.m., Friday; 8 a.m.t
6 p.m., Saturday; and noon to midnight, 
Sunday.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
Neil Diamond can still give a good concert
photo Dy Adam rtanin
An aging but still entertaining Neil Diamond pleases a large Pittsburgh crowd with his 
many hits and some new songs, too.
By ADAM HANIN
Tartan /Issi. Entertainment Editor
Last week, Neil Diamond showed Pitts
burgh audiences just what a perfonnance is 
all about. Singing to a record sitting 17,703 
fans for a little over 2lA hours, Diamond 
proved that hs is still one of the 
leaders in todays popular music 
world.
There are many factors which 
give hirn this distinguished position; how
ever, none are as strong as his ability to 
entertain. His voice isnt always as smooth 
as in the studio, but he knows what to say, 
how to move, and how to feel comfortable 
on stage. When Neil Diamond is on stage, 
people listen.
And thats just what happened; even with 
the record crowd, there was no audible sign 
of them outside breaks between songs (dur
ing which there was always tumultuous 
applause), and during songs with a definite 
clap-along groove. In fact, probably the 
most beautful performance of the evening 
was his classic I Am, I Said which began 
as a very slow, very quiet, acousticallybacked monologue which then paused for a 
second, and then followed with the slow 
entrance of each instrument in his band. 
During that second of silence, there was only 
silence, and it became part of an incredible 
rendition.
Other spots in which Diamond gave his 
all were in his older classics, notably 
Cherry Cherry and Kentucky Woman." 
In fact, Diamond breathed new life into 
Cherry Cherry, and made it sound much 
better than in the studio.
Unfortunately, many of Diamonds 
newer songs suffered in performance. 
Although America (followed by Love on 
the Rocks, both from The Jazz Singer) was 
Diamonds big entrance, starting with the 
ominous violin section (synthesized, but
amazingly realistic just the same) and build
ing up to the drop of a giant flag and explo
sions across the stage, both nonetheless were 
literally grunted out, making Diamond 
sound more like a frog than anything else. 
Perhaps this is simply because he doesnt 
warm-up before performing, because 
within three songs, his voice was pleasing 
and smooth.
Forever In Blue Jeans was fine the first 
time; however, Diamond and his band per
formed it four times in a row to please the 
audience. By the second time, the song had 
become monotonous. When the audience 
requested a fifth repetition, Diamond rep
lied I do know some other songs.
Soon after, Diamond performed (with the 
help of singer Linda Press) his You Dont 
Bring Me Flowers, a duet originally sung 
with Barbra Streisand. The song was really a 
showstopper; Mrs. Press (her husband plays 
bass in the band) proved to be a beautifully 
voiced, soulful singer who nearly surpassed 
Streisands emotionally charged rendition.
Other members of Diamonds band 
proved to be quite good themselves. Percus
sionist Vince Charles pulled out his steel 
drum and played an amazing version of 
My Favorite Things.'
Diamond also presented one new song 
from an upcoming album. Although the 
title wasnt given, one would expect it to be 
Fire on the Tracks. This was a piece 
which blended reggae-rhythms with Dia
monds pop melodies.
In general, the evening was filled with 
enjoyment. Hes starting to show signs of 
age, but Diamond nonetheless put on a very 
youthful concert (although he did often 
separate himself from his audience by cal
ling his fans kids.) No matter, though. 
When the show was over there wasnt an 
unhappy person in the hall.Rothenberg's paintings create powerful images
fey CAROLYN TERNER
fpecial for the Tartan
Susan Rothenberg, a painter 39 years of 
Ige, shows remarkably deep, personal imag
ery in a show at the museum of art in Carne
gie Institute. Rothenbergs images are 
mostly black and white, with 
sometimes the addition of blue 
or red to enhance the ghost-like, 
haunting pictures.
I The artist uses the figure, a hand, a tree or 
t hat and a face, all distorted, as symbols of 
I he unconscious, Rothenberg is in touch 
Ivith the greater forces of the unknown. In 
jhe painting Ten Men, only two figures 
I'xist (Rothenberg claims she started with 
lcn figures, but painted them out). Hie 
)ainting seems to represent some sort of a 
jlream: is the small figure in the mind of the 
I arger one? Both figures are surrounded by a 
I [raceful and energetic field of white brush 
Itrokes. This vast emptiness of snow  is
touched in the lower right by a patch of 
black, w hich sugests land or water. A horiz
ontal blue line piercing the head of the 
larger figure echoes the horizontal, long can
vas: it could be a horizon, and acts as ground 
to the floating figures.
In another Painting, Patches, a mostly 
white large rectangular canvas, the viewer 
sees a head-like figure connected to a trian
gular bone-like shape, which is connected to 
three hands connected horizontally, and a 
spine protruding out of the head. This 
image is particularly disturbing because of 
its fragmentation of the human body. The 
artist, however, sees it as playful; she des
cribed the painting as being about body 
parts being connected to each other but the 
painting reads as a skeletonish nightmare, 
with parts of a body that are disformed or 
highly abnormal.
The painting Blue Bars tends to be 
more humorous, although the artist claims
she tries to be humorous in all her paintings.
In Blue Bars there is a figure blowing 
smoke into a hat, with three horizontal 
washes of blue. What is funny about Blue 
Bars is the person blowing smoke into the 
hat where we usually expect a person wear
ing the hat, or even a rabbit coming out of 
the hat. The point is that Rothenberg is 
using ordinary, mundane objects as univer
sal symbols. They are symbols that come 
from and stand for our 20th century culture.
In Snowman, the paint is literally 
sculpted to form a black snowman with its 
top third coming out the side of its middle, 
its carrot nose pointing downward. When 
one view's this painting for the first time, one 
doesnt recognize exactly what it is. It is the 
title that gives us the big clue. This is an 
example of how the artist controls our per
ception, and plays tricks with it. In Three 
Trees three lines, slanting horizontally,
could be telephone poles, but the fact that 
they are horizontal makes the painting. It is 
this perceptual awareness and ability to turn 
things sideways or upside-down that shows 
Rothenbergs sense of humor, irony and w it.
Rothenbergs paintings deal w ith the fig
ure as fragmented and whole; the elements 
of figures, body parts, clothing and environ
ment are combined to present powerful 
statements about human beings and the 
unconscious. Although the artist denies that 
the paintings are signals for disaster, they 
communicate the sense of being lost, iso
lated, being frozen or locked in time and 
space. Her paintings speak emotionally 
about being severed, or cut off. The Rothen
berg paintings are very powerful, and if one 
is interested in a quality painter with a uni
que but somewhat morbid vision, one 
should see this showr. The show will con
tinue in gallery D through March 18.Pittsburgh Opera approves "five year plan" for growth
The Board of Directors of Pittsburgh 
I ^pera, under the presidency of Dr. Joseph 
p Marasco, Jr. and the chairmanship of 
| urdon F. Flagg, unanimously approved 
I General Director Tito Capobiancos fivel^ar plan for the growth of Pittsburgh 
I|pera. The decision was made at the con
tusion of a day-long retreat at the 
Tuquesne Club on Saturday, February 11.
I My ultimate goal as General Director of 
I he Pittsburgh Opera is the achievement of 
X(dlence, by developing an outstanding 
company that will establish opera as 
ne of the cultural trademarks of PittsurSh, through first-class artists and 
Standing productions, stated
Capobianco at the outset of the meeting.
The Board committed itself to expanding 
the operating budget of the company from 
$1.5 million in the current fiscal year to a 
possible $4.1 million for seven productions 
and a total of 21 performances in Pittsburgh 
Operas 50th anniversary season, 1988-89. In 
addition, it will undertake a fund-raising 
drive to increase the endowment to $10 mil
lion to ensure the financial future of the 
company.
Pittsburgh Operas development drive 
has, in its first four months, raised $250,000 
from 334 new members, as compared with 
last years total of $87,000 in private contri
butions over a twelve month period. 26 fam
ilies have joined the General Directors 
Galaxy with minimum pledges of $2,500 
each year for three years.
The 1984-85 subscription drive, launched 
two months earlier than in the past, netted 
$100,000 in subscription renewals in its first 
2M weeks, and Capobianco projects that 
the company will surpass its current sub
scription rate of 73% capacity of Heinz Hall.
During the day-long retreat, the Board 
divided into work groups for finance and 
development, marketing and opera chapter 
development, and long-range planning to 
study the budgets for the projected seasons 
and formulate initial strategies for commun
ity support. The Board resolved to develop 
specific plans for audience outreach, with 
special emphasis on the student population. 
It is committed to the creation of the Pitts
burgh Opera Center, a training program for 
young American artists, and additional edu
cational programs to reach all segments of 
the community.
I am overwhelmed by the support I have 
received from Dr. Marasco, Mr. Flagg and 
the Board stated Capobianco. They 
are committed to the difficult project ahead, 
because the results will be quality. We are 
building excellence in the arts for the com
munity in which we live.

---------------------------------------------------

 Electronics Engineers
 Mechanical Engineers
 Computer Scientists
Youre about to take that all-impor
tant step, from college into your first ca
reer position. Its a move that must be 
thought out carefully.
The Lawrence Livermore National 
Laboratory offers room to move around, 
and several stairways your career can 
take. Here youll be working shoulder to 
shoulder with some of the countrys top 
people, seeking solutions to the nations 
greatest challenges. You may begin your
career here working on a defense prob
lem and later move into one of our many 
energy research programs.
Youll find everything you need for 
your work, including the worlds most 
advanced computers. And, if you decide 
to continue your education, the Laboratory 
offers time off from work and tuition 
reimbursement.
You couldnt find a better place to 
take that first step.
Our major research programs are:
e National defense (Nuclear weapons and 
defensive systems research) e Magnetic 
Fusion Energy e Laser Fusion e Energy 
Research e Biomedical and Environmen
tal Research.
See your placement office for more 
information, or write to:
Lawrence Livermore 
National Laboratory 
P.O. Box 5510, Dept. JCR 
Livermore, CA 94550
An equal opportunity employer, m/f/h 
U.S. Citizenship required
University of California
Lawrence Livermore 
National Laboratory

---------------------------------------------------

February 21, 1984The TartanPage 15
Ibum is a portrayal of adolescence in the 60s
By VINCENT GUINTO
Tartan Contributing Editor
> fhe University of Pittsburgh Studio 
Theatre is currently presenting Album, a 
play by David Rimmer. The show is a 
delightful attempt at capturing the feelings 
of adolescence, as well as the 
mood created by the popular 
music of the period, and the Stu
dio Theatres production is true 
to these intentions.
Album concerns the growing pains of four 
typical middle-class teenagers, Peggy, Trish, 
Billv, and Boo. Structured as an album, 
the play consists of two sides (acts), each 
with four cuts (scenes). The play progresses 
rom 1963, when the characters are 14 or 15 
vears old, up to graduation day in 1967. 
\long the way, each of the characters strug
gle for idendty is documented.
Billy and Peggy are the two social sophiscates at the beginning of the play, while 
Irish and Boo are awkward beginners. As 
hev age, Boo becomes a radical nonconforist with visions of dying like James Dean, 
rish struggles throughout her teenage 
ears with crushes on one rock star after 
nother, starting with Brian Wilson of the 
ch Boys and ending with John Lennon. 
illy and Peggy try to maintain their sophisicated exterior, while feeling less and less so 
ntemally.
The cast of four worked well together. 
Ibums cast includes two new Pitt under
graduates, Cynie Cory (Trish) and Sean Chiani (Boo). Their inexperience was slightly 
visible; Cory in particular seemed a little 
uncomfortable. Still, they handled thir parts 
well. Cory and Chiani were for me the more 
interesting couple; these two will be worth 
looking for in future Pitt stage productions.
Kimberly Verruggio as Peggy and Michael 
Koegel as Billy are more experienced Pitt 
actors. Their experence can be seen in 
slightly more polished performances, and 
they were rightly cast in the roles calling for 
more subtle handling.
Album was directed by Peter Harrigan, a 
graduate directing major at Pitt. In this pro
duction, Harrigan tries to copy the theater 
conventions of the 1960s (which the play 
was not originally written as using) to 
further the mood of the play, employing 
slide projections, a lot of background music, 
and minimalistic set design. While the slides 
were easily ignored (which I did throughout 
most of the play without even trying), the 
use of music and the minimalistic set 
worked well. Certian small liberties were 
taken with the original text of the play, 
but all of ther alterations were minor and fit 
in easily with the rest of the play.
Album was Rimmers , first offbroadway play, and I got the sense of it 
needing a little more final polishing to 
make it into a truly good stage work. Still, it 
captures the trials of adolescence, and inte
grates the theme of the music of the 1960s
very effectively into the structure of the play.
Best of all, the play includes (and is struc
tured around) some of the greatest music of 
the 1960s: Beach Boys, Kathy Young and the 
Innocents, The Beatles, Bob Dylan, The 
Turtles, The Rolling Stones, etc.
The Pitt Studio Theatres production of 
Album will continue Thursday, Friday, and 
Saturday nights. If you have any fond 
memories of the 1960s, or any liking or 
understanding of the musical mood of that 
period, then Album is a must to be seen.
Footloose doesn't flash
By ADAM HANIN
Tartan Asst. Entertainment Editor
For months before its release last week
end, critics touted Footloose as being the 
next Flashdance. Instead, it was surprising 
to find (or perhaps not, considering the aim 
of motion pictures these days) 
that the movie was really geared 
JT fr the teenage audience, with 
very' few' saving graces about it.
The plot is quite simple. A young man 
(Ren, played by Kevin Bacon) moves with 
mother and younger sister to a small midwestern town. Ren finds that his new' home 
is not particularly a pleasant one, especially 
because the town Reverend (John Lithgow) 
has outlawed rock music and dancing. Ren, 
who loves to dance and loves his music, 
begins to have trouble in town because of 
this.
Rens romantic interest is Ariel Moore 
(Lori Singer), who is the reverends daugh
ter, and who is not as pure as one would 
expect a reverends daughter to be. His best
friend Willard (Christopher Penn) is a 
clutzy kind of guy whom Ren teaches how 
to dance during the course of the movie; 
these dance sequences are the funniest 
scenes in Footloose. _
The best part of the movie is the perfor
mance by John Lithgow as Reverend 
Moore. He is extremely convincing as the 
representative of the souls of the town stuck 
between his official role and his love for his 
daughter.
As far as dancing is concerned, Footloose 
does not come close to Flashdance. The only 
truly exciting dance is an extended outpour 
of emotions by Ren (and his stunt dancer 
Peter Tramm). This is an extremely gymnas
tic performance by both, and the cuts 
between Bacon and Tramm are perfectly 
done.
However, in general, Footloose is not the 
film so highly acclaimed. The soundtrack is 
fair, the acting is mediocre, and the dancing 
is only moderately good. Footloose is worth 
seeing, but dont expect much.
find Ensemble revives "Hammersmith" in free concert
The Camegie-Mellon University Wind 
Ensemble will commemorate the 30th anliversary of the historic 1954 revival of 
ustav Holsts Hammersmith at CMU in 
concert at 8 p.m., Thursday, Feb. 23 in 
lumni Concert Hall of the College of Fine 
ts.
English composer Gustav Holst, ac
knowledged as one of the worlds leading 
:omposers of military band music, origilally wrote the piece in 1930. At the urging 
>f Roland Leich, CMU professor of music 
meritus, Dr. Robert Cantrick, then director 
>f the university Kiltie Band, tracked down 
[he work and played what everyone believed 
|vas the world premiere in 1954. (Cantrick is 
low a music professor at SUNY College of 
iuffalo.)
Later research by Frederick Fennell 
revealed, however, that the work had been
played April 17,1932 at a joint concert by the 
Navy, Army and Marine bands at Constitu
tion Hall in Washington, D.C. The score 
from that concert was lost, however, and the 
popularity of the work, a standard in band 
repertoire, is traced to its performance at 
CMU and its subsequent publication.
Keith Lockhart, who will conduct the
concert, called the piece an important event 
in the history of wind music.
The concert program will also include: 
Concierto para Instrumentos de Vientos by F. 
Gonzalez Asenjo, professor at the University 
erf Pittsburgh; Fanfare for the Common 
Man by Aaron Copland; Suite for Double 
Brass Choir by Byron McCulloh, CMU
artist/lecturer and trombonist with the Pitts
burgh Symphony; and Variations for Brass 
Band and the second movement of Scheno 
for Winds from Symphony No. 8 by 
Vaughn-Williams.
The concert is open to the public without 
charge.
COMING SOON
ACTION RESUMES
 LOW COST STUDENT 
! RESUME PACKAGES
 PERSONAL INTERVIEW
 INDIVIDUALLY
DESIGNED 81 WRITTEN
 UNIQUE COVER 81
FOLLOW-UP LETTERS
 PERSONALIZED
WORD PROCESSING
 JOB SEARCH 
STRATEGIES
0 FREE - 15 TYPED
ORIGINALS OF YOUR 
ONE PAGE RESUME
JON DELL ENTERPRISES
345 FOURTH AVENUE
PITTSBURGH. PA 15222 
412-391-4278
Look for
=MOVIEM \ 1. \ / I \ I
in an 
upcoming 
issue
of your
college
news
paper.
DONT MISS IT!

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanFebruary 21, 1984
rrf
!FI
inin
:s S udsy entries are being 
sought for clean contest
\Wi m  . . _ , .. ............ ...... .photo by Erik Horn
This structure was part of the piece built by visiting artist Howard Shapiro on the grassy 
area near the studio theater.
A collection of unusual soapstone carv
ings from the Arctic, part of the new Polar 
World exhibit which opened at Carnegie 
Institutes Museum of Natural History last 
month, will again serve as the inspiration 
for an unusual competition in Pittsburgh, 
this time in soap instead of ice.
This month, the museum is spon
soring a competition on a somewhat 
smaller scaleminiature, to be precise. Area 
residents (both adults and children alike) are 
invited to turn a bar of Ivory soap into a 
work of art.
The prize-winning entries in the Polar 
World Soap Carving Competition will be 
shown in the changing exhibits gallery' of 
the museum from May 4 through July 15, 
1984. ,
A panel of three judges will examine the 
entries and announce the winning sculp
tures by April 23, 1984. The judges will 
include museum staff member Patrick Mar
tin, who created many of the dioramas on 
display in Polar World, and a representative 
from Procter & Gamble, which produces
Ivory Soap.
Participants are asked to submit a soap 
sculpture representing the theme of Polar 
World such as arctic birds, seals, walrus 
hunters, or other aspects of life in the Arctic 
The entries, which should be securely 
packed in a box for safe storage, may be 
submitted with a completed entry form and 
the $1 registration fee between April 3 and 
April 13, 1984.
A first, second, and third prize will be 
awarded in each of three age categories: 
third through fifth grade, sixth through 
eighth grade, and ninth grade through 
adult. First prize winners will receive $50, 
second-prize winners will be awarded $25 
and the third-prize winners will receive a 
one-year membership to Carnegie Institute.
Participants may receive an entry' iorm or 
a free copy of Tips for Soap Carv ing by 
calling the Division of Education at (412) 
622-3283 or writing: Soap Carving Contest, 
Division of Education, Carnegie Museum 
of Natural History', 4400 Forbes Avenue, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213.
Parsons School of Design
Summer in France/Italy/Japan/West Africa
Parsons in Paris  July 1-August 11
Paint on the Left Bank, explore prehistoric caves in the Dordogne, 
visit the masterpieces of Renaissance Art in Tuscany.
Courses include: Painting, Drawing, Printmaking, French History, 
Language & Literature, Landscape Painting & Prehistoric 
Anthropology.
Cost for the 6-week program including 9 credits of study, round trip 
airfare and double occupancy accommodations with continental 
breakfast ranges from $2875 to $3350*, depending on choice of loca
tion for the last weeks (Dordogne or Siena).
Photography in Paris  July 1-29
Study in the City of Light with American and French 
photographers. The program is co-sponsored by the Friends of 
Photography. Program costs including 6 credits of study, round trip 
airfare and double-occupancy accommodations with continental 
breakfast range from $2330 to $2700*, depending on choice of 
housing.
Studies in the History of Architecture, Interior Design 
and European Decorative Arts  July 1-29
This program is offered in collaboration with the world famous Muse 
des Arts Dcoratifs. The museums staff supplements the Parsons 
faculty with specialized presentations that include aspects of the 
museums collection normally not available to the general public. Ex
cursions to points outside of Paris include Versailles, Fountainebleau 
and Vaux le Vicomte.
Courses offered: The History of French Architecture, Studies in Euro
pean Decorative Arts.
The program costs, including 6 credits of study, round trip airfare and 
double-occupany hotel accommodations are $2700*.
Fashion Design in Paris  July 1-29
Study the history and contemporary trends of French fashion design 
in Paris under the supervision of museum staff and practicing 
designers. The curriculum includes visits to textile showrooms and
presentations of fashion collections.
Courses offered: Fashion Illustration, The History of European 
Costume and Contemporary Trends in French Fashion.
Program costs, including 6 credits of study, round trip airfare and 
double-occupancy accommodations range from $2330 to $2700* 
depending on choice of housing.
Italian Architectural History and Contemporary 
Architectural and Industrial Design  June 30-July 29
The architectural past and present of Italy is studied in Rome, 
Florence and Venice, where on-site presentations are made by Par
sons faculty. Contemporary Italian architectural, interior and in
dustrial design are studied through guest presentations made by 
leading Italian designers.
Courses offered: The History of Italian Architecture, Studies in Con
temporary Italian Design.
The program costs, including 6 credits of study, round trip airfare and 
double-occupany housing in first-class hotels including continental 
breakfast and all land transfers are $3400. *
Summer Workshops in Japan  July 25-August 26
Courses in ceramics and fibers and the history of Japanese crafts are 
held under the supervision of master Japanese craftsmen and 
members of the Parsons faculty in Tokyo, Kyoto and Inbe (Bizen). 
Workshops are supplemented by visits to local museums, Japans 
famous hillside kiln sites and textile facilities. The fee for six academic 
credits, roundtrip airfare from New York and double-occupancy hotel 
accommodations is $3600*, depending on the field of study.
Summer Workshops in West Africa  July 5-27
Workshops in ceramics, weaving and metalsmithing will introduce 
students to artists and artisans in several Ivory Coast villages, where 
African art and architectture can be studied in their original context. A 
photography curriculum examines techniques of documentation and 
reportage in regions of great natural beauty and cultural diversity.
The fee for six academic credits, roundtrip airfare from New York, 
land transfers and hotel accommodations is $2850*.
For more information and a brochure, please send the coupon below or call the Office of Special Programs: (212) 741-8975.
Office of Special Programs 
Parsons School of Design 
66 Fifth Avenue 
New York, N Y. 10011
Name
Please send brochure(s) on:
? Parsons in Paris
? Photography in Paris
? Fashion Design in Paris
? Interior Design in Paris
? Italian Architecture & Design
? Summer Workshops in Japan
? Summer Workshops in West Africa
Address
City __StateZip

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Sports Editor
Xhe Tartans took the top two teams in the 
presidents Athletic Conference head on this 
week, but came out on the losing end of 
their games with John Caroll and Hiram.
John Caroll, defending PAC champs, 
came to Skibo Gym two games behind 
Hiram for the conference leadership. Car
roll defeated the Tartans, 71-62, led by Herb 
Cunninghams 18 points.
It was a game in which the Tartans just 
couldnt win the war, despite many victories 
in battle. Pulling to within one point many 
times in the first half, CMU just couldnt 
take the lead.
Despite a season high 18 points for center 
Rich Neff, the Tartans couldnt contain the 
Blue Streaks fast break and inside game. 
JCU center Mike Carswrell scored 16 points, 
and forward Jim Cannon had 17, including 9 
out of 10 shooting from the foul line. CMU 
out scored JCU 52-48 from the field, but the 
Blue Streaks hit 23 foul shots to the Tartans 
10.
JCU Coach Tim Baab was impressed 
with the Tartans improvement this season. 
Larry [Anderson] has done a tremendous 
job. Theyre a much better team than earlier 
this season. Baab thought the loss of Pete 
Bennett hurt CMU a lot. Another pure 
guard, one who can really handle the ball, to 
go with [Greg] Gabriel. Gabriel is a tre
mendous shooting guard, were always 
scared by him. Jeff Metzgar did a great job 
on him. Gabriel had just eight points 
against Carroll.
The turning point of the game was early 
in the second half. CMU guard John Taor
mina tried to pass across to Gabriel, but 
Cunningham stepped in and stole the ball. 
Cunningham slam dunked for two points at 
the other end, beginning an eight-point 
streak, changing a 37-36 score to 45-36.
Cunningham likes the chances of his 
team. Hiram lost to Case Western as JCU 
defeated CMU, pulling Carroll to within 
one game with three to play, including a 
game at Hiram tonight. In the middle of 
the season we werent playing well, we got 
too individualistic. Now, the team effort is
back together, were playing well. As for 
the game with Hiram, Weie playing at their 
place, going against the refs and the crowd. 
Well have to play solid basketball with 
ryone contributing.
But a six foot one inch guard dunking in 
Division III basketball? It takes a lot of 
energy for me to dunk, but the guys like it, 
said Cunningham.
Cannon was happy about the win and 
Hirams loss. I predicted it on the bus, said 
Cannon. He felt their chances are 
good. Weve got a lot of momentum, six 
seven guys starting to score.
Cannon had been shooting under 60 per
cent from the foul stripe before his nine-often performance.
Tony Jones also had eleven points 
eleven rebounds in a reserve effort for 
Carroll.
After losing to Case Western, Hiram came 
to CMU somewhat leery of another upset. It 
almost happened. Hiram squeaked out 
57-56 win, but not before a bit of trepidation.
Rod Swartz, Hirams leader with 14 
points, missed the front end of a one-andone with five seconds left. The Tartans 
inbounded after a time out, but Taormina, 
who had 13 points, fumbled the ball, and by 
the time it was recovered there was no time 
for a good shot. Taorminas desperate heave 
hit high off the backboard, and the buzzer 
sounded.
Neff had another good game, scoring ten 
points, and Rob Kukowski led the Tartans 
with 15. Neff has done a good job getting 
inside position, which has led to his recent 
scoring surge.
Herb Sendek started in place of Gabriel, 
who had come down with a bad cold. 
Gabriel played the final minutes of the 
game, but failed to score a point. He did go 
over 750 career points this w^ek, hitting 751 
with his eight points versus JCU.
Rusty and Rod Swartz, a brother tandem 
from Mogadore, Ohio, along with Tom 
Pollock, also from Mogadore, play together 
well, and their ball movement showed that. 
Rod Swartz has shot 59 percent from the 
field this year, mainly on outside shots. 
Rusty Swartz has averaged 18.4 on the year,
Rob Kukowski
photo by Mike Ki lly
goes up over Rusty Swartz (left) and Jim Smart for a rebound.
Herb Sendek scores on a breakaway layup in the Tartans loss to
MllMllBSillJohn rarroll 7L rMq62
JCU (71)FGFTTPCMU (62)FGFTTP
Gannon9-1017Kukowski2-13347
Koch is1-60-02Waite2-72-26
Carswell6-104-716Neff8-122-618
Cunningham6-146-618Brennan1-30-02
Combs3-60-06Gabriel4-100-08
Metzgar0-11-21- Taormina4-82-410
Jones4-83-8uSendek1-11-23
Totals24-4823-3371Debski1-40-02
Saxton .0-40-00
Suckling2-20-04
Bart1-20-02
Totals26-6610-1862
FG % JCU .500 CMU .394. Rebounds--JCU 41 (Carswell 12), CMU 41(Waite, Neff 10
each). AssistsJCU 8{Melzgar4), CMU 16 (Gabriel 5). TurnoversJCU 21, CMU 
22. Halftime JCU 35-32.
Htram 57 rMq 56
but had only 12 against CMU. Six foot eight 
inch Alan Miller scored 13 points and had 
three blocked shots.
Meanwhile, the Tartan improvement has 
been drastic since the seasons first half. Neff, 
Kukowski, Taormina, Dwayne Waite and
Ray Brennan are contributing along with 
Gabriel, and the entire team returns next 
year. With twro games remaining, this sea
son is lost. But Anderson should look 
toward recruiting, and a strong season next 
year.
FG % Hiram .443 CMU .375. ReboundsHiram 36 (Pollock 11), CMU 38 (Waite 
12). AssistsHiram 13 (Pollock 5), CMU 10 (Sendek, Kukowski. Waite 3 
each). TurnoversHiram II. CMU 16. Halftime Hiram 34-30.
CMU (56)
Kukowski
Waite
Neff
Sendek
Brennan
Taormina
Gabriel
Debski
Totals
FG
4-15 
2-4
5-5 
2-4 
0-3 
5-10 
0-4 
2-3 
18-48
FT
7-8
4-4
4-4
0*0
2-2
3-4
0-0
0-0
20-22
HIRAM (57) 
Swartz, Rod 
Smart 
Miller
Swartz, Rusty
Pollock
Shivers
Smoot
Totals

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanFebruary 21, 1984
Women's comeback attempt stopped\ lose two games
Laurie Arendas shooting for two of her fifteen points against St Francis.
By MARGARET WISMER
Tartan Staffurritrr
The Tartan womens basketball team 
proved with a flourish that in a high pres
sure game, they are tough enough to make a 
comeback. Unfortunately they didnt pro
duce quite enough fanfare in their game 
Saturday to stop a heartbreaking defeat to St. 
Francis. The casual spectator would never 
have guessed by the 25-17 halftime score that 
CMU could put enough sheer drive into the 
second half to tie the game. They outscored 
St. Francis 34-31 bringing the final to 56-51.
Thanks to the massive effort put forth by 
the defense and the undying ability of 
Laurie Arendas to cut to the wing and go 
over the inside for her field goals, the win 
appeared promising. Christi Munn was a 
pillar of that defense as she ripped down 14 
rebounds without being plagued by the 
usual foul trouble. Not out to overwhelm 
the opponent with her jumping height, 
guard Nancy Dilulio prowled the backcourts and purloined the ball no less than 
ten times. Every time she took the ball from 
another startled St. Francis girl, shed drive 
one more time for the layup, either making 
it or the consequent free throw. With ten 
points, she was only fourth in the total
points standings as Arendas pitched in with 
15 and Munn and Michelle Schlegel putting 
in 12 and 11 respectively from the inside. 
Right down to the wire these girls, along 
with the quick freshman guard Val Sooky, 
were playing tough basketball. It will be 
these type of pressure situations that will 
pay off in the Pennwood West champion
ships in a few weeks.
The bad news of the week came at Carlow 
Wednesday night, where they were trounced 
upon. There they had reverted back to their 
nasty habits of turnovers with 31 and had 
passing while staying below par in steals. 
And for some reason the shots the Tartans 
usually make with ease werent going in. 
CMU lost 71-46.
The final percentages reveal much as the 
visiting Tartans efficiency rating was a 
mere 22 percent for field goals and 48 per
cent for foul shots. Carlow players Diane 
Santia and Kim Zambell made 18 and 13 
points respectively. The one bright glimmer 
for all the CMLI team was their lack of per
sonal foul trouble. None of the starters had 
to be taken out, as is often the case, and has 
been a key factor in many of their past 
games.Cramer pushing for nationals; fencers fare well
By MAURA SAVINI
Tartan Staffwriter
CMU hosted the annual Intercollegiate 
fencing tournament, with six schools partic
ipating in Skibo Gym. Tartan fencers fin
ished in the top three in three of four
divisions.
In the novice women, Hester Clever fin
ished second. Kurt Knodt and Mark Accetta 
finished first in their respective divisions, 
novice and intermediate men.
Finishing first in the novice women div
ision was Susan Newball of Allegheny Col
lege; and first in the intermediate womens 
division was Chris Drew, also of Allegheny 
College.
Other CMU fencers who made the finals 
were Beth Meyers, Tom Ciminelli, Max Berenson, Jamshid Mahdowi, Diane Ceonzo, 
and Tim Zack.
This past Saturday, the Tartans went up
against Allegheny College and California 
University of Pa. The CMU fencers beat Cal 
St. in a very close match. The A team tied 
weapons and bouts and came out on top by 
nine touches. The B team won by one bout. 
The Tartans, however, lost a tight match to 
Allegheny. They again tied in weapons and 
bouts and then lost by 6 touches. Coach Fisk 
allowed the Allegheny team to double up 
because of a shortage of fencers.
Between Cal St. and Allegheny it was a tie
in weapons, but Cal St. eventually won, 
winning the bouts 27-16.
Two fencers that Fisk is proud and confi
dent about are Mike Cramer and Accetta. So 
far this year Cramer is 21-5 and has a good 
chance of making the Nationals. Accetta 
was undefeated in the meet with Allegheny 
and Cal St. He also, in the last year, man
aged to come in first in the mens novice 
division and the mens intermediate div
ision at CMUs Intercollegiate tournament.
Summer Programs Offered By 
Camegie-Mellon University
"Paris 1984 
"Germany 1984
What are you doing this summer? Why not make it a European 
summer?
Join us for three weeks on the CMU campus and four weeks in Europe, 
developing your communication skills in French or German.
Intensive language instruction, excellent teachers, for beginning and 
intermediate students.
Full day program, five days a week, for 3 weeks in June in Pittsburgh.
With native instructors. 4 credits, $800. Continental breakfast and 
lunch included.
French program at Institut Catholique in Paris for 4 weeks (July 2-31). 
German, program at Goethe Institute in Rothenburg for 4 weeks (July 9 
to August 3).
Each overseas program, 6 credits, $1200. Includes tuition, room and 
board, and excursion.
Students may enroll in either the Pittsburgh or European programs 
independently.
Make this a special summer. Write, or call us for details. European 
Studies Program, CarnegieMellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. 
(412) 578-2881.
Deadline for application April 1.
Custom Designed Hairstylesthat only look expensive I
(ANY LENGTH) $25.00
$13.00
(WASH-CUT-ILOW-STYUE)
COLOR 
Moo, Tm, WL 1*7 
nm.fri.iM m-am
S.M NO APPOINTMENTS
UNBEX HAIR SALON
257
Our professional stylists know that to custom cut your hair the way you want, they 
must listen to what you want That's why at Great Expectations you'll leave 
with the style you had in mind at a price you can afford 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
PRECISION NO PERMS FOR
HAIRCUT APPOINTMENT ALL STYLES

---------------------------------------------------

February 21, 1984The TartanPage 19
occer moves indoors for off-season tournaments
SCOTT BOZIC
(Assistant Sports Editor *
Most people here at CMU probably 
lought soccer season ended last fall, but for 
L hard-working individuals involved with 
L Sport here, its a year-round commitlent. From virtually the end of soccer sea[n through the spring, they practice twice a 
ek and compete in various indoor soccer 
jmaments throughout the region. 
Working out at night and on weekends, 
team played throughout last semester 
hd the early part of this semester, working 
to competition level as an indoor soccer
team. Their work was culminated in two 
tournaments, one here at CMU on January 
28, and one at Frostburg on February 11.
Indoor soccer is played with all four walls 
in play, with six players on a team as 
opposed to eleven in outdoor soccer. A tour
nament consists of playing all day, usually 
four to eight games, depending how far the 
team advances. Each game is fifteen to 
twenty minutes in length.
In the tournament played here at CMU, 
the schools competing included Pitt, Gen
eva, Allegheny County Community Col
lege, Grove City, Youngstown State, Robert
, |h
JrHSWtmphoto by Mike Kelly
cer coach Nick Gaudioso has been recovering from an accident instead of his usual prowlon the sidelines of Tartan soccer games.
GENERAL INFORMATION
DISPLAY ADS
Diplay ads are $4.50 per column inch, minimum order is two 
column inches. Special rates are available. There is a late submis
sion charge.
Deadline: Tuesday before publication at 5:00 PM
CLASSIFIED ADS
Classifieds are $2.00 for 1-20 words, $4.00 for 21-50 words, 
$8.00 for more than 50 words.
Dealine: Wednesday before publication at 5:00 PM
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Announcements and Events are free for non-profit organizations. 
We reserve the right to delete or edit any announcement or event.
Deadline: Wednesday before publication at 5:00 PM
For further information, contact Business Manager Karen Tylak. 
Business hours: Monday and Wednesday, 4:00 to 6:00 PM 
Address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pgh., PA 15213 or Skibo 50 
Phones: 578-2111/2112 
24-Hour answering machine: 578-2113
Morris, Slippery' Rock, Indiana University 
of Pennsylvania, Behrend and West Virgi
nia Wesleyan, in addition to the two teams 
representing CMU. One of the CMU teams 
fared well, finishing third overall in the 
tournament.
Several weeks later the team travelled to 
Frostburg, without a coach, to complete in a 
similar tournament with rivals Bethany and 
Frostburg. Head Coach Nick Gaudioso was 
injured several weeks ago in a car accident, 
and was recuperating in his home at the 
time of the tournament. The team played in 
four games, winning one, tying two and 
losing one, failing to make the playoff 
round. The team may compete in other tour
naments this spring, depending on when 
the coach returns and other factors.
Its not necessarily an indicator of how 
well were playing as a team, since weve
split up into smaller group, but it is a good 
indicator of how well youre playing as an 
individual, was the way sophomore for
ward Ted Anderer described the indoor soccer 
program. Winter is another training sea
son for us, he noted. Freshman forward 
Doug Anderson also pointed out that 
indoor soccer helps improve skills during 
the off season.
Participation in off-season competition 
involves a great commitment for the coach 
and the players involved, not only in time 
put in, but financially also. The school does 
not pay transportation or tournament fees. 
The players must take care of this on their 
own.
With the return of ten of eleven starters 
next season, the teams improvement should 
be noticeable as a result of this indoor soccer 
work.
Hamilton wins skating
By SEAN QUINN
Tartan Staffwriter
With one weekend left in the Winter 
Olympics at Sarajevo Yugoslavia, the Soviet 
Union and East Germany, as expected, are 
cleaning up the hardware. The USSR leads 
with 21 medals, including four golds, while 
East Germany has seven golds to comple
ment their 19 medals. The United States is 
fifth in the medal race with five, including 
three golds.
The Olympics started slowly, with a snow 
storm and heavy winds delaying the skiing 
events and causing a general disturbance at 
all the outdoor events. But, the snow even
tually cleared so all the games could be played 
successfully.
In hockey, the Soviets played Czechoslo
vakia Sunday for the gold, while Sweden 
and Canada played for the Bronze. The U.S.
finished a disappointing seventh. However, 
the U.S. fared better in skating and skiing. 
Bill Johnson won the first American medal 
ever in the downhill event, with a gold 
medal performance. Debbie Armstrong did 
the same in the womens giant slalom. 
Chnstin Coop>er followed Armstrong with 
continued on page 23
WANTED
The Easter Seal Society is in need of 
individuals to work with handicapped 
adults and children from June 5 
through August 15 
For further details, contact:
Director of Recreation and Camping 
The Pennsylvania Easter Seal Society 
P. 0. Box 407
Middletown, Pennsylvania 17057-0497 
Telephone: (717) 939-7801
1= FRESHMEN
3-Year Full Tuition 
Scholarships
Available Through
Army Officer Commissioning Program
(Current Participation is Not Required)
Application Period:
Eligibility:
Selection Criteria:
Benefits:
Now until mid-April 
Scholarship begins in the fall term
 2.8 cumulative Q.P.A. or better
 Full-time student
 Be less than 25 years of age on 3a June of 
graduating year
Based primarily on evaluation of academic 
achievement, leadership potential and degree of 
success in college
Pays all tuition costs, fees, fixed rate on books 
and supplies and provides $Laa per month in 
school financial assistance (for up to La months 
each year the scholarship is in effect).
For further information, contact 
Captain Michael Schulte. Camegie-Mellon University 
at (412) 578-2205. return the enclosed student 
inquiry or visit our office at Margaret Morrison Hall. 
2nd basement

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanFebruary 21, 1984
Tartan Sports Schedule
Mens basketball, at W&J, 8:00 p.m. 
Womens basketball at W&J, 5:30 p.m. 
Fencing, home vs. PSU-Fayette, makeup of previous 
match.
Swimming, PAC Championships at JGU (thru 2/25) 
Fencing, at PSU-Fayette, 6:30 p.m.
Rozier, Carano and Maulers begin new life in USFL
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Sports Editor
History begins for a new team in a new 
league in Oklahoma on February 26. That 
day the Pittsburgh Maulers face the Outlaws 
in a battle between the United States Foot
ball League expansion teams.
The Maulers open their home season 
against the Birmingham Stallions, led by 
former Steeler quarterback Cliff Stoudt, on 
March 11.
Mark Furman, Mauler assistant director 
of public relations, believes the key to suc
cess is quarterback Glenn Carano, a Dallas 
Cowboy veteran. We have good faith in 
Glenn, or we never would have signed him. 
As they say, as goes the quarterback, so goes 
the team.
The Maulers will rely on 1983 Heisman 
Trophy winner Mike Rozier. Furman 
believes the three million dollar  three 
year contract Rozier signed is worth every 
cent, we hope, said Furman.
.Assuming Rozier, Carano, and former 
Steeler receiver Rickie Martin do their jobs, 
the focus will shift to the defense. The Maul
ers have signed former New York Jets Jerry 
Holmes and Ron Crosby, along with exCowboy Bruce Huther. Holmes, out of West 
Virginia, will start at right comerback.
Dan Short, a safety who played for Pitt 
last year, will bolster the secondary. Thirdround draft pick Doug Hollie, a defensive 
tackle, was the leading tackier for Southern 
Methodists number two ranked defense last 
year. The Maulers also signed second round 
pick Don Corbin, honorable mention allAmerican offensive tackle from Tulane 
University.
Coach Joe Pendry, offensive coordinator 
for the league leading Philadelphia Stars 
last year, has led the Maulers to two pre
season victories thus far. Pittsburgh crushed 
the Washington Federals 31-7, and defeated 
Jacksonville 13-10.
Blocking for Rozier will be fullback Wait 
Easley, one of five rookie starters on the 1981 
Championship San Francisco 49ers.
The Maulers are one of six expansion 
teams this year, including the Outlaws, 
Jacksonville, San Antonio, Memphis, and 
Houston. The league now has eighteen
teams, and four divisions. The Maulers are vin Bryant of the Stars; and the last two
in the Atlantic Division along with Phila
delphia, New Jersey, and Washington. The 
division boasts four of the leagues best run
ning backs: Craig James of Washington; 
last years USFL Most Valuable Player KelHeisman winners, Rozier and New Jerseys 
Herschel Walker.
A third place finish is predicted for the 
Maulers, behind the Stars and N.J. 
Generals.
Olympic television coverage too feature oriented
By DAVE LAFYATIS
Tartan Staffivriter
. .Whatever ABCs taped coverage [of 
the Olympics] might lack in immediacy 
will be made up for in an avalanche of 
special features. (Newsweek)
ABC has unleased a remarka
ble barrage of special features on 
the American public through
out its televising of this years 
Olympics from Sarajevo. This avalanche of 
special features, which has buried unsus
pecting v iewers with up-close and person
als and John Denver, is one aspect of what 
freshman Lauren Weisberg called unpro
fessional and extremely boring coverage of 
an exciting event.
But how could anything make the Olym
pics seem boring? Try a 15 minute feature 
showing John Denver teaching Yugosla
vian school children the song Country 
Roads. Most of the poor kids dont even 
know how to speak English, let alone who 
or what West Virginia, Mountain 
Momma is. Another one of ABCs ballyhooed special features was Peggy Fleming
LASS RINGS INC
Now when you buy any ArtCarved 
college ring, you not only get one 
ring loaded with style and quality, you 
get two A great college ringand a 
diamond fashion ring, FREE It s a 
beauty 10K gold with a genuine 2 
point diamond Retail value$60 
The perfect way to express yourself, 
your style, or your feelings for that 
special someone Available exclu
sively from your ArtCarved Repre
sentative for a limited time only
Date___________________T ime_____________Piace.
Deposit required MasterCard or Visa Accepted
tracing the history of womens figure skat
ing dresses through to the present day. Gee 
Peggy, I really prefer the light orange chif
fon to the pink nylon. ABC also subjected its 
watchers to Bob Beattie visits a Sarajevo 
Disco and Mike Eruzione asks half the 
civilized world what happened to this years 
hockey team among other things.
Possibly the most offensive of all ABCs 
special features, however, has been their 
over-production of up-close and personal. 
Rarely can more than two skiers go down a 
hill consecutively without ABC interrupt
ing the flow of action with an in-depth anal
ysis of somebodys personality. Certainly the 
capability of taking their viewers up close to 
the stars of the Olympics is a great tool for 
ABC, but the overuse of this technique can 
become quite tiresome.
Another problem ABC has had in their 
coverage has been the often times questiona
ble choice of what event to show.
A case in point was Sunday afternoon, 
when the station chose to show the 15-20th
place ice-dancers do their compulsary pro
grams. Now I enjoy ice-dancing, and was 
fascinated by the precision of the top few 
couples, but seeing these other less-talented 
performers became downright boring. I 
understand that the void created by the can
cellation of the Alpine events was a large 
problem for ABC, but couldnt they have 
shown some more luge, speed-skating or 
biathalon coverage rather than filling the 
time with so much ice-dancing? Freshman 
Virginia Tjan stated, Ive always liked the 
ice-dancing, but they just showed too 
much.
One final note to ABC. From now on, let 
the Olympic rings stand alone, and dont 
intertwine the company logo with the sym
bolic rings. This tasteless bit of commercial
ism was unappreciated by all who noticed it. 
And remember: Olympic action is usually 
suspenseful and dramatic, and doesnt need 
a ton of special features to liven up the 
proceedings.
Dave Lafyatis is a freshman in CIT and is; 
a sportswriter for The Tartan.
at JCU (thru 2/25) 
at PSU-Fayette, 6:30 p.m. 
Mens basketball, home vs. Thiel, 8:00 p.m. 
Womens basketball, at Bethany, 7:00 p.m. 
Fencing, NIAC championships, away, 9:00 a.m. 
Lacrosse, home vs. Wheeling, 2:00 p.m. 
Fencing, at Cal. Univ.of PA, 6:00 p.m.
Womens basketball, PAC Championships, at W&J
(thru 3/3)
Fencing, Couples tournament, away, 10:00 a.m.
Pittsburgh is 
our home.
clean
house!
Pittsburgh Spirit
The Pittsburgh Spirit will play the New 
York Arrows in a game which will help raise 
funds for the Pittsburgh Clean City Com
mittee.
The game will take place March 2, at 8:00 
p.m. at Pittsburghs Civic Arena. Reserve tick
ets will be sold for eight dollars, and the pro
ceeds will go towards the purchase of trash 
receptacles for Pittsburgh.
For tickets, contact Rosanne Caseiato at 
642-2772.

---------------------------------------------------

Mellon
DRINGOVERALL
G FG FT
Lp (T) 18 ISO 77
nningham (JC) 18 145 43 
Ltz, Rusty (H) 18 121 80 
hnsson (CWRU) 18 129 47 
Liz, Rod (H) 18 111 40
briel (CMU) 17 107 14 
jnnolly (W&J) 18 78 74
btack (CWRU) 17 84 38
hnsson (CWRU) 
hartz, Rusty (H) 
ibnel(CMU) 
irchia (W&J) 
nden-een (T)
OVERALL
G Total AVG 
Rebounds
SPRING BREAK84.THE TRADITION UVES ON!
If WIImIfH i *1 -I ih!Ilil .i,
1OftI / Lli.Vi ini..
&
1AKE THE GREATERFORT LAUDERDALE BREAK*Hollywood, Pompano Beach, Lauderdale-by-the-Sea, Deerfield Beacu.
Want the tradition to live on forever? Then order your full-color 17" x 23" poster of Spring Break *84 by sending 
$3X0 (check or money-order, no cash, please) to: Spring Break 84,500 Third Avenue West, Seattle, WA 98119. 
Be sure to include your name, address and college. Price includes postage and handling.
NAMEv 
Pete Bennett 
Greg Gabriel 
Robert Kukowski 
George Debski 
Richard Neff 
Scott Saxton 
Herb Sendek 
Ray Brennan 
Dwayne Waite 
John Taormina 
Tom Suckling 
Mark Trichtinger 
Dave Gestrich 
Ed Pultz 
David Bart
February 21, 1984The TartanPage 21
Tartan Mens Basketball
R
26
38 
83 
74
116
39 
15 
30 
86 
37 
14
4
8
0
2
PF-D
19-2
48-2
57-4
44-3
55-122
27
16
42-1
36-3
7
TP
106
236
179
121
135
41
44
83
71
93
19
6
12
0
0
PPG
15.1
12.4
9.4
6.4
7.1 
2.7
2.4
4.6
4.7
6.2 
3.2 
2.0
2.4 
0.0 
0.7
GFGM
745
19111
1959
1945
1951
1515
1818
1836
1529
1534
67
32
55
10
31
FGAPCI.FTM
79.56916
243.45714
163.36161
113.39831
122.41833
36.41711
39.4628
89.40411
62.46813
82.41425
18.3895
7.2862
14.3572
0.0000
2.5000
FIAper.
26.615
17.824
83.735
43.721
64.515
17.647
14.571
12.917
23.565
37.676
8.625
3.667
4.500
0.000
0.000
+Ar Stattsttcs
IM Report
Basketball and Wrestling finals are com
ing up. Wrestling finals are Friday, March 3 
at 7 p.m. and Saturday, March 4 at 1 p.m. 
Basketball championships are going to be 
held on IM Night, March 8.
Other sports coming up are Call PoolIndividual, Swimming, and Weight Lift
ing. Rosters are due for these sports 
Thursday, March 1. The next IM Board 
Meeting is also March 1. v
G FG FT PTS AVG
10 73 54 200 20.0
10 83 23 189 18.9
10 77 35 189 18.9
10 78 29 185 18.5
10 67 44 178 17.8
10 65 4 134 13.4
10 56 20 132 13.2
10 42 45 129 12.9
rp (T)181639.1
.els (A)191538.1
swell (JC)181377.6
>tack (CWRU)171237.2
in (A)191276.7
lihan (T)181116.2
GTotal
Rebounds
AVG
tp(T)10838.3
swell (JC)10787.8
>tack (CWRU)9707.8
'els (A)10777.7
ite (CMU)8567.0
Khia (W&J)10666.6
dsiock (W&J)10636.3
in (W&J)10616.1
ISTSOVERALL
GTotalAVG
Assists
liams (A)121058.8
lock (H)18935.2
Htz, Rusty (H)18734.1
>nel (CMU)17643.8
^gar(JC)17593.5iHe (W&J)18573.2
iderveen (T)18553.1
GTotalAVG
Assists
liams (A)10383.8lock (H)10626.2
Rusty (H)10484.8ulle(W&J)10424 2
>nel (CMU)10383.8
PREGNANT?
And Lar qeq+tx mean xa ba?
a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call
Birthright at 621-1988
DINGSOVERALL
W L
13 '6 
12
Carroll 12
Reserve 9
7 
5 
4 
2
6 
6 
9
11 .389
12 .294
per.
.684
.667
.667
.500
FREE THROW PERCENTAGE19PACG ATT.MADEPCT
Vanderveen10 5445.833
PTS AVGJohnsson (CWRU) 9 2823.821
33718.7Swartz Rusty (H)10 5444.815
33318.5Cunningham (JC)10 4435.795
32217.9Kochis(JC)10 3427.794
30516.9Penn (A)10 5846.793
26214.6Debski (CMU)10 3326.788
22813.4Hummel (B)10 3728.756
23012.8Harp (T)10 7254.750
20612.1-
PLAYEROFTHEWEEK:
TODD JOHNSSON, a 6'3" forward for 
Case Western Reserve University, scored a 
career-high 33 points in a 61-59 victory at 
Washington & Jefferson, and 20 points in a 
53-50 win at Bethany last week. Johnsson, a 
junior from Murraysville, Pa., connected on 
23 of 35 field goal attempts (66%) and 7 of 8 
from the foul line (88%) giving him 53 
points for the week.

---------------------------------------------------

There are many careers under the Red Umbrella, But none more important than yours.
and accounting, engineering, marketing, 
and underwriting, to name a few.
And voull find the right environTodav's graduates are one of the 
most important resources we depend on 
at The Travelers. In tact, talented, fore
sighted people like you have developed 
and delivered new products and services
for 118 years. Weve come a long way 
and our future is limited only by your 
imagination.
As one of the countrys leading diver
sified financial organizations, The Travelers 
has something special for you. Under our 
umbrella, youll find rewarding careers in 
actuarial science, data processing, finance
ment to put your ideas to work. Our list of 
firsts clearly demonstrates that weve never
been afraid to take 
the lead. Weve 
been responsible 
for a score of 
major innovations, 
including the first 
personal accident 
policy in America, 
the first automo
bile policy, and the 
first policy to 
cover astronauts 
during space 
travel. And today 
our people are 
changing the way 
insurance business 
is conducted 
through one of the 
industrys most 
advanced data 
processing systems.
Make The 
Travelers your first 
career choice. You 
may never make 
another. Write to: 
Rubin Fisher, 
Assistant Director, 
College and Professional Recruiting, 
Department 31, The Travelers Companies, 
One Tower Square, Hartford,CT 06115.
ThelravelersT
The Travelers Companies 
Hartford, Connecticut 06115
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

February 21, 1984The TartanPage 23
ckey team blows out Wheeling, loses 2-1 to Gannon
photo by Steve Winawer 
Loalie Bob Kozakowski stands dejected in a previous game versus Gannon.
By JOHN KENNEY
Tartan Staffwriter
In hockey action this week, CMUs Ice 
Tartans travelled to West Virginia Saturday 
night to meet the Wheeling Cardinals, and 
then hosted Gannon University Sunday 
afternoon.
In the first game, the Tartans unleashed 
their offense to rout Wheeling 12-0. Left 
wing Bob Koch led the way with two assists 
three goals, getting the first hat trick of 
his career at CMU. Although Kochs three 
goals were all the Tartans really needed, the 
Wheeling defense just couldnt contain the 
overpowering CMU offense. Mike Halloran 
to the scoring spree with two goals 
and three assists while Paul Russo, Rob 
and Bill Schwarz each beat the shell
shocked Wheeling goaltender for goals.
The teams highlight of the night came in 
the third period when junior Rich Lund 
exploded for the first two goals of his CMU 
Andy Andrejko and Caleb Corkery 
closed the scoring, each chipping in a goal.
When the Tartans met Gannon the very 
next afternoon, they knew it would be a 
tough game, even though the first few min
utes seemed to say otherwise. In the open
ing minute of the first period, forward Rob 
Katz scored a graceful, unassisted goal for 
CMU, and the Tartans got fired up. It 
seemed as if a rout was in the making. CMU 
pounded their opponents goal again and 
again, outshooting Gannon by nearly a 2-1 
margin. But the Gannon defense just would 
not give.
The second period was much the same, 
the frustrated Tartans dominating, but 
unable to score. Gannon tied the game up 
late in the period.
In the third period, both teams came out 
fighting for that winning goal. Although 
CMU had ample opportunity, luck was just
not on their side, and Gannon managed to 
get the go-ahead goal. This left the Tartans 
fighting deperately to tie the score but, des
pite a power play in the final minutes of the 
game, they were unable to do so.
Although CMU lost the game, they 
played good hockey, and the loss should 
make them fighting mad for the upcoming 
playoffs.
Delays in 
alpine skiing
continued from page 19
the silver and Tamara McKinney finished 
fourth for the U.S.A.s best overall showing 
in any event. Scott Hamilton won the mens 
figure skating, becoming the first American 
to do so since 1960. The other American 
medalists were the siblings duo erf Kitty and 
Peter Carruthers, who finished second in 
pairs figure skating, to the Soviet pair of 
Valova and Vasiliev.
One of the most sterling peformances of 
the games was by the British Ice Dancing 
team of Christopher Dean and Jane Torvill. 
Dancing to Ravels Bolero, the pair 
received twelve perfect scores on their way to 
the gold, including all perfect scores for 
artistic impression. The twelve 6.0s set an 
Olympic record for skating in any event.
In other big events, the East Germans, as 
expected, led in the four-man bobsled. They 
held both first and second place as of Friday 
night. An Italian woman won the regular 
slalom event. The Soviets took the gold in 
the 4x7.5 Biathalon Relay. East Germanys 
Karen Enke set an Olympic record in speed 
skating on the first full day of the games at 
Sarajevo. Enke had won three golds up to 
press time.
An investment inknowledge pays the best interest.
Your Government has published 
thousands of books to serve America.
And nowthe Government Printing 
Office has put together a catalog 
of the Governments "Bestsellers 
almost a thousand books in all.
Books like The Space Shuttle at 
Work, Starting a Business,
U.S. Postage Stamps, and 
j National Parks Guide and
Map. I daresay theres even 
information on one of my 
favorite subjectsprinting.
Find out what the 
Government has published 
for yousend for your 
free catalog. Write
New Catalog
Post Office Box 37000 Washington, D.C. 20013 .
Lar qe+t xAtaat eFFre A FLqINL SrAtr
It takes four years to get a college degree How long wtll tt take you to get a good job?If you havent settled on a company or corporatton yet why not get your executtve career off to a flytng start as a plot, or navtgator tn the qntted States Atr Force? Its the ftnest fhght program tn the world, the pay ts excellent, and you'll enjoy the presttge that goes wtth the stlver wtngs of an Atr Force ptlot or navtgatorIts one of the ftnest opportuntttes tn the natton. And a great place to gatn executtve expertence wtth mtllton dollar responstbtltty. Ftnd out today about the Atr Force fltght program. rontactCaptain John Van Juna 644-2705

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Abusive PLCB attacks freedom of the press
Congress cannot take away or restrict free
dom of speech or freedom of the press.
 Constitution of the United States, Amend
ment 1.
That freedom and others are extinct. It is 
legal for federal and state agents to confiscate 
any materials they deem necessary to do their 
jobs. It happened at CMU recently.
In gathering information for the Orpheus 
Allison story, The Tartan news editor took pho
tos of investigating Pennsylvania Liquor Con
trol Board agents. The investigators proceeded 
in confiscating the film, a direct breach of the 
First Amendment.
The news editor asked for help from a cam
pus policeman, but the officer replied that the
investigators superseded him. Yet the govern
ment officials were not from the FBI or CIA or 
even a local police department, but from the 
PLCB. This implies that any investigating 
government employee from any branch can 
take anything of mine or yours at any whim.
This small incident may or may not incite 
fury in you, but this country is no better than
the Soviet Union if any government official 
can confiscate anything from the press or oth
erwise without a Warrant of Search and 
Seizure.
The gradual loss of American freedom is not 
contained to this campus. Ronald Reagan 
began his term vowing to eliminate govern
ment intervention on private lives, among 
other reasons, to insure further freedom. He 
did so to a large extent. Some government 
waste was eliminated and its sphere of influ
ence reduced. However, Reagans action in for
bidding the press from covering Grenada was 
the first of its kind in American history. The 
debate over whether the invasion was right or 
wrong is irrelevent: one more invasion in 
which both oppressors and innocents were 
killed while American interests were protected. 
But if Reagans action against the press 
becomes precedent, war becomes easier. As evi
dence, recall American apathy toward Viet
nam before the press illustrated the atrocities of 
the war; only then did the majority of Ameri
cans become outraged.
Governor Thornburgh has proposed legis. 
lation that will decrease the sphere of government influence. He has proposed that the most 
comprehensive state liquor system in the coun. 
try be dismantled. John Kulik, a representative 
of 50,000 businesses and 1.5 million employees 
united in favor of divestiture, claims, The 
state liquor and wine monopoly has proven 
itself over the years to be inefficient, unresponsive to consumers, and even corrupt, reason
ing that It has delivered poor service, high 
prices and counterproductive pricing policies 
inadequate selection and inconvenient hours. 
Besides all that, there is no reason that government should do anything that private citizens 
are capable of handling. It is a perfect example 
of the negative side of socialism.
As Thomas Jefferson once said, Were it left 
to me to decide whether we should have a 
government without newspapers or newspapers without a government, I should not hesi
tate a moment to prefer the latter.
If you agree with this editorial, write to your 
state representative to let him know how you feel,
ehe Greek Vtew
Greek Sing will be a show worth remembering
By Bob Fishel
The stage is set, the gears are moving and 
all over campus people are talking about 
Greek Sing. No one can avoid it. The excite
ment is everywhere. For the past three weeks 
w everyone walking through
& Skibo has taken notice.
Practice, practice, practice.
That's all they do. They all want 
to win. They dont want to lose. They cant 
lose. They want to say that theyre the best. 
And as a result, the Greeks are putting on a 
show this campus will never forget.
Friday night, March 9th at 7:30 p.m., the 
Syria Mosque Theater is the place to be.
Why? Because everyone is invited. And if 
you want to see a bunch of amateurs try not 
to make fools of themselves, this show will 
leave you wondering why you never went 
before.
But what is Greek Sing, and why do they 
do it The freshmen are lost in the dark. 
They approach me and ask why people are 
singing in fourteen part harmony. After I 
laugh (because if I werent involved, the 
group could sing at only thirteen different 
voice levels), I explain that hopefully by 
March 9th theyll be down to three or four 
part harmony. Greek Sing is about working 
together. Working together and having fun.
And every year the Greeks perform for the 
school and show everyone what working 
together is all about.
There are three categories. Each sorority 
and fraternity chooses to perform in either 
the all female, all male, or mixed competi
tions. For seven and one half minutes, each 
group sings and dances to songs from a well 
known musical while the audience stares 
and the judges decipher who is the best.
Last year, Delta Delta Delta won the 
female competition with their selections 
from Starung Here, Starting Now. Zeta 
Beta Tau took the glory for the males with
their rendition of The Pirates of Pen
zance. And Pi Lambda Phi shined in the 
mixed compeution, singing their original 
lyrics to popular songs.
This year the three are going to have to be 
mighty impressive if they want to hold on to 
their crown because on Friday the 9th, the 
stage at the Syria Mosque will come alive.
Tickets are being sold all over campus, 
and believe me, they are going fast.
Bob Fishel is President of the IntraFraternity Council and plans to write a 
column for The Tartan.
Solano decides "not" to write about Orpheus
!
By Nate Solano
I hear the train acomin, its rollen round 
the bend, and I aint seen the sunshine in I 
dont know when. Im stuck in the magis
trates office. . .
So guess what Im going to 
write about. No, not Orpheus, 
too many others already have 
and frankly I feel sorry for him. 
Instead, Im wTiting about freedom of the 
press, truth, justice, and the American way.
A few months ago, everyone was worried 
about the advent erf 1984 and George Orwell 
was mainly characterized as an intelligent 
cynic. Recalling my favorite part of the
book, the Spies was a wonderful organiza
tion. Children (blindly loyal to the govern
ment and too young to question its 
intelligence) were encouraged (via civic 
duty) to inform the government of any antigovemment utterings within their families. 
Indeed, active Spies work was quite a pre
requisite for government employment. Its 
funny what loathing this section brought to 
my being not only that the children were 
such insects, but also that a government 
could see fit to utilize this type of informant. 
My point is that we, as Americans (the free 
and the brave) hate this activity by nature 
and refuse to tolerate it (when we see it).
If Olympics are our peace, 
we are in serious trouble
By Stuart Shapiro
Now that all the excitement, drama and 
pageantry of the first half of the largest 
peacetime event in the world is behind us, 
one final comment remains to be mack.
^ So what?
^ Every four years, the entire 
world is subjected to the mind 
numbing hype that has beome 
so much an Olympic tradition as the torch 
and flame. Were inundated with solemn 
references to the heart warming spectacle of 
the nations of the world engaged in peaceful 
competition. One is left with the distinct 
impression that the Olympics is the world's
last best hope. If that is the case, the world is 
in big trouble.
Despite repeated claims by the more ideal
istic among us about the purity of sport, the 
modem Olympics is a highly political exer
cise. More to the point, it is a political event 
not, for the most part, because of the manip
ulations and machinations of less than 
scrupulous participants, although those cer
tainly exist, but because the vast majority of 
those involved  the athletes, their fellow 
citizens, and their governments  prefer it 
that way.
eoitinuKf on |MgZ7
Of course, the other thing we Americans 
(winner of a lot of wars) love is the individu
alist willing to stand up to a repressive 
organization, i.e., Teddy Roosevelt standing 
up to big business because it was a smart 
political move, er I mean because it was 
good for the public; George Washington 
and company crossing the Deleware and 
smiting the evil Hessians as they celebrated 
Christmas because they would be sitting 
ducks, er I mean to free our country from 
oppression, etc.
I guess my point is that our public likes to 
have its heroes and its enemies, and it really 
doesnt care who is who. The press realizes 
and capitalizes on this point. So Messiah or 
Musselini, dont believe the local news or let 
the injustice of it get you down. Personally, 
Ive stopped buying the Pittsburgh press in 
favor of Weekly World News.Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the beginning of the opinion 
section, and are the official opinion of The Tar
tan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual authors 
who are usually on The Tartan staff, but the 
opinions are not necessarily those of The Tartan 
Editorial Board.
Letters to die Editor are opinions of individual 
authors who are usually members of the Unh>eTsity community. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writer's address 
and phone number for verification. Names will 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
Ill conduct my first office hours of the 
semester Thursday from 8:00 to 9:00 p.m.
Nate Solano is President of Student 
Senate.
The&fen
Editor in Chief ... 
Managing Editor . 
Business Manager.
News Editor.........
Features Editor
..............Ric Medrotf
....................Susan Peme
.................Karen TyM
____Neil J. Greenblufli
.........Neal W. Johnston
Entertainment Editor........................Mark ^
Sports Editor....................Christopher D ^
Photography Editor..................................Mike
Production Manager...................... Ma ^
Typesetting Manager......................Patti Gar 1
Art Director.................................Michael Susan*
Contributing Editors............................Monica
Pauline V01 
Pauline honec
Asst Ent. Editor.......................................Adam
Asst Sports Editor.................................Scot1
A*c. Business Manager...................Bonnie
Production Staff: Robert Aarhus, Stephen B 
Peter Bain, David Fields, Bill Garrison, . 
Gialamas, Andrew Ghali, Susan ,n 
Heather Newton, Tracey Fejouhy 
Volan.
StepM
Copyright  1984 by The Tartan. The Edi ^ 
reserves the right to withhold from pxjblKa1**^ 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial ^ 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Office*: Ski 
(412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone, (412)578-2113. .
address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh PA 
Funded by the Activities Fee. 
______________All rights reserved._______

---------------------------------------------------

February 21, 1984The TartanPage 25
I otters:
Allison treated unfairly
Editor
And what do we bum besides witches? 
Vloie Witches! Monty Python and the 
Holy Grail 
The senate is once again falling into disirray1 an act retribution, the Senate 
oted 21-7 to expel a member because he had 
rone over their heads, and over the head of 
he school administration, and informed the 
CB that a Senate Happy Hour was selling 
)eer illegally. This resulted in the arrest of 
our Senators. Former Senator Allisons 
otives are questionable, but whether his 
ction was motivated out of his sense of duty 
s a citizen or as an act of vengeance towards 
te Senate is irrelevant. Rather, it is not our 
lace to pass judgment on his motives. That 
e should or should not represent H&SS in 
ie Senate is a matter for the students of that 
ool to decide.
One of the aggrieved Senators chaired the 
roceedings in which the Senate decided 
t it would take matters into its own hands 
nd expel Allison, on dubious constituonal grounds. In an act of vengeance, they 
ented their collective rage and passed their 
wn judgment. Only seven Senators had the 
mirage to say, No, this is wrong. It was 
Tong because the Senate disregarded the 
les of conduct. For, not only was the 
xpulsion vote chaired by one of the 
iggrieved Senators, but all four were 
llowed to vote in blatant conflict of interest, 
t is wrong because in their disregard, they 
ring the entire Senate into disrepute and 
mage what reputation they had managed 
build in the last two years. And it is wrong 
use a disreputable Senate is an ineffecive Senate, and therefore, cannot serve the 
tudents.
The students of CMU have been played 
>r fools. The powers that be in Warner Hall
use the Senate to give us the illusion that we 
really have some say in how our money is 
spent, and to allow us to pretend that there is 
someone who can represent our views and 
interest before the administration. We are 
made to look like fools by allowing this to 
go on in the Senate; the administration can 
feel justified in ignoring our foolish repre
sentatives. We look like fools because we 
choose fools to represent us, so how can we 
be taken seriously? And we are more the 
fools because we allow just 5% of the student 
body to elect these bumblers.
I have been a student at CMU for six years 
as both an undergraduate and as a grad 
student. In those six years The Tartan is full 
of Senate power struggles and resignations 
large and small. In the last two years the 
Senate had managed to become a somewhat 
reputable body in spite of itself and us. Now 
it seems that darker times have returned.
I now would like to make two appeals. 
First to the Senators who voted for expulsion: 
please get back to work, you found your 
witch and burned him, end the witch hunt 
now. The impeachment and conviction of 
Allison is what turned this incident into a 
major scandal. The seven who voted against 
you are your colleagues and allies, not your 
enemies. The time for vendettas is past. 
Second, I appeal to the students of CMU. 
You get the government you deserve. If you 
want good government, find someone in 
your college who wants to make the Senate 
work and vote for him/her in the coming 
elections. Warner Hall cares only about the 
reputation of CMU, not the Senate. That 
responsibility is yours. Seven votes could not 
save the witch, but they can surely elect a 
Senator, even Cerebus the aardvark.
William Nicholsesponse program a success
Editor:
Last semester we asked the campus com
munity to voice their complaints through 
ie Academic Response Program, noted by 
ie many Gripe and Complain posters. 
>ach complaint has now been directed to 
ie proper authority; departments were 
isited personally by a member of the Acaemic Affairs Committee when responses 
ere numerous. Many department heads 
ave been receptive to our requests and posive actions have been taken.
This semester we are again asking you to 
ome forward with your comments. Howyer, instead of complaints, we are primarily 
Peking compliments. If you have had any 
rofessor or teaching assistant you feel is 
I worthy of recognition please tell us. We are 
lot only looking to commend the popular 
professors who touch two hundred fresh
en a week, but also one who might only
reach twenty upperclassmen per week and 
has challenged you to think or has showed 
enthusiasm or devotion to teaching. There 
are no special forms this time, any sheet of 
paper with the teachers name and the rea
son why he should be commended will do.
After we receive your comment, a letter of 
recognition will be sent to the teacher citing 
the reason you stated. Names and corres
ponding reasons will also be sent to the 
department heads and the Teaching Center. 
There will be an announcement every week 
in the Tartan from now on reminding you 
of this program. We hope you will take 
this opportunity to acknowledge the good 
teachers from whom you have learned at 
CMU. Its time for some good news.
Cynthia Taylor 
Chair, Academic Affairs Comm.
Student Senate
Wloscowitz is "applauded"
Editor:
I can t thank David Moskowitz enough 
')r essay on the evils of social welfare. 
I or years, Ive wondered if I should begiate|U k)r ^ing born into an environment that 
I ncuraged education, could adequately 
and clothe me, and send me to this 
rant institution. I now realize (thanks to 
avid s capital column) that I am one of theompetent.
Nowas I pass many of the less compeon my way to CMU, I shall no longer 
0rrV how these second-class citizens will 
niv<* the night. I am on my way to my 
rv(d rewards of job security, a home, 
2-5 children (who, no doubt, will also be
Orpheus was just as guilty
Editor
I am amazed at the recent actions of 
Orpheus Allison, former H&SS senator. For 
those who dont know, Orpheus decided 
that a recent Student Senate party shouldnt 
be selling alcohol, so he called the Liquor 
Control Board (LCB) and as a result four 
members of Senate were arrested. I see sev
eral things wrong with his acdons.
First, the party had been planned well in 
advance; there was plenty of time to discuss 
it. If Orpheus objected to alcohol, he 
shouldve said something. Second, the party 
was held by Student Senate, not a small 
group of senators. A11 of Senate is responsi
ble for the outcome of that party, not just the 
four who were arrested. If the event was in 
violation of the law, so were all members, 
including Orpheus.
I dont understand Orpheus motives at 
all. I asked him why he called the LCB 
without raising an objection beforehand, 
and his answer was, I wanted to teach the 
University a lesson. Picking on one of sev
eral dozen student organizations is not 
going to teach the University anything; 
the University has not been harmed.
Orpheus is now trying to present the 
image that CMU is burdened with alcohol 
problems. In an article in The Pittsburgh
Press, he referred to the campus as being 
litered with beer cans; he portrayed the stu
dents as being interested in nothing but 
drinking. This is a major exaggeration; the 
fraternity quad is littered with debris on Fri
day and Saturday nights, but that is not the 
same thing.
If Orpheus is really interested in counter
ing the use of alcohol on campus, he should 
be reacting to frat parties. I cant think of an 
alcohol-related problem in recent history 
here that did not originate at the frats; they 
make alcohol available to large numbers of 
under-age students, which is bound to cause 
problems. (By the way, Orpheus: the frats 
have been known to charge admission to 
cover alcohol costs. Go get em!)
I dont think Orpheus ever had the best 
interests of students in mind. He is out to 
gain an image as a martyr and to paint a 
false picture of CMU. For this he deserved to 
be impeached from Senate. Unfortunately, 
he has permanently marred the records of 
four students (try to get a job with a criminal 
record) and has escaped prosecution for an 
action for which ne was equally liable.
Monica J. Cellio
Blaming Greeks ridiculous
among the competent). Youre absolutely 
correct David, we must rid ourselves of the 
less competent. Send those undesirables 
abroad, yea even to Russia, if necessary. As 
you say, our laws are here to protect us, the 
competent, from others who are constantly 
disagreeing with the highest ideals upon 
which our country is built on and the foun
dation for its greatness. The great states
man, Fidel Castro, followed vour advice and 
unloaded his multitudes of the less 
competent.
David, I applaud you on your wellthought essay. See you in church and the 
next Investment Club meeting.
Andy Harmon
Editor
Pointing your finger al frat parties as 
the cause of alcohol abuse on campus seems 
absurd to my mind. Frat parties are on cam
pus and close to home; most people who go 
to them have friends there w ho will take care 
of them if they look sick. They are safer than 
dingy bars, and you have more of an oppor
tunity to meet new people than in a small 
dorm party.
Yet, there are some people who dont 
know how to act when theyre intoxicated, 
cant control how much they drink and 
have a problem with alcoholism. Will ban
ning alcohol at frat parties be of any help? I 
doubt it. There are other places to get alco
hol. A person who wants to drink will 
drink, whether the alcohol is easy to obtain, 
or more difficult. Programs directed at indi
viduals are needed here  not the banning 
of alcohol at frat parties.
Many of the published anti-alcohol-atfrat-party opinions have been written by 
Monica Cellio. Yet Monica herself has 
drank irresponsibly in the past! Nov. of 1982 
Monica attended a fraternity party dressed in
a Creative Anachronist costume, complete 
with sword. At the door of the party Monica 
was told to keep the sword in the sheath; 
Monica agreed. She then went downstairs to 
drink. A while later on the porch a brother 
dressed in a costume jokingly said En 
Garde to Monica and held a stick in front 
of him. Monica reportedly drew out the 
sword, chopped the stick in half using the 
sword, and with a downward stroke hit the 
man in the head  leaving a cut in his 
forehead to the bridge of his nose.
Id rather not drudge up dirt from the 
past, but this situation makes an important 
point! Why listen to someone who cant 
control her own drinking behavior?
For the reasons suggested in this letter, I 
suggest that we should stop focusing on 
fraternity parties as a cause of alcohol abuse; 
instead, start educational programs directed 
at the individual alcohol users. Drinking is a 
personal choice  one that everyone will 
have to make eventually. Its all too easy to 
blame something outside yourself, like fra
ternity parties, for alcohol abuse.
heryl Potter

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26The TartanFebruary 21, 1984
Letters:
Pisar demonstrates human ability to hope and survive
Editor
I think this is very interesting. It is a quote 
from Samual Pisar.
One day I found myself among the con
demned. Our group is placed in a halfway 
barrack to have our numbers checked off 
and to wait our turn.
We stand closely packed in a dread silence, 
the faces around me flushed with the rage of 
helplessness, or some crazed hope of lastminute deliverance, or the hallucinatory' 
peace of the imminence of death. At the back 
of the room, in a space clear of prisoners, I 
see a barrel of water, and alongside it a pail, 
brush, and rag.
Slowly, I creep forward on the floor. The 
people whose legs I touch are too benumbed 
to notice. Reaching the pail, I wet the brush 
in the water and begin scrubbing the floor.
I go over one section, then another, scrub
bing and drying vigorously as hard as I can, 
like a good worker performing an assigned 
task. Slowly, I inch my way toward the exit.
One of the German guards calls out to 
me:
dirty.
My heart thumps as, gradually, I cover the 
cleared area and work my way ever closer to 
the door, past the legs of the other con
demned prisoners too terrified to notice that 
I am one of them.
I resume my slow progress toward the 
door. It seems forever before I reach it, and 
when I do, I begin scrubbing the floor in 
front of it with a conscientiousness calcu
lated to earn a pleased nod from the most 
demanding kapo. I dry the floor as though I 
want it to glow. Then, and only then, do I 
allow myself to stand up. Carry ing the pail, 
with the brush and rag inside, I walk slowly 
to the door, then out into the open. I expect 
to be stopped  a cry, an order, a blow on 
the head. Nothing. With slow, measured 
steps I walk toward the other barracks and 
lose myself in the anonymity of the camp.
Before sinking into sleep that night I see 
my mothers face. Could she have imagined 
how resourceful her little boy would become 
by himself in this unspeakable world; the 
little boy who, she was always afraid, might 
have an accident crossing the street, who 
would go out ito the cold without his scarf, 
who did not like the taste of vitamin drops
Hey, asshole, over there, that parts still in his milk?
It was night when I landed in Moscow. A 
week of difficult negotiations lay ahead.
Unable to sleep  it was still day by New 
York time  I got out of bed and stood at the 
window. Moscow was deathly still. Before 
me, the spires and domes of czar, commissar, 
and chairman stood out majestically against 
the half-light of the crouching sky, casting 
dark shadows across the square. The ethe
real scene conveyed the mystery and power 
of eternal Russia.
Snowflakes drifted out of an astonish
ingly clear Moscow sky, as reflected on these 
impressions.
Suddenly something stirred below. A 
huge shape, a sort of monster fish, detached 
itself and filled the street as in a dream. It 
moved slowly, silently, on a soft carpet of 
snow as though to pass unnoticed; and 
behind it came another just like it, then a 
third. They swam out of the darkness, bale
ful in their symmetry, contemptuous of the 
human scale,-while a thunderous din shook 
my room.
Of course! I had arrived on the eve of the 
anniversary of the October Revolution. Col
ossal trucks carrying the most up-to-date 
thermonuclear missiles were being wheeled 
into position on some side street, for the
parade in Red Square, now just hours away 
The ghostly nocturnal sight below was the 
ultimate dress rehearsal for an annua]* 
theater piece that some profusely decorated 
field marshals would present to a tense 
world later in the morning. The show 
would convey the usual slogans about the 
invincible might of the Red Army.
Between the ages of ten and twelve I had 
watched Stalins tanks roll westward and 
Hitlers panzers roll eastward. But nothing 
that I witnessed, then or since, equaled thi 
impact that those intercontinental ballistic 
missiles, larger than any I had ever 
imagined, had on me  floating along th, 
ancient crenellated wall across from mv 
window, packed with infernos of death.
One of the salient lessons I have brought 
out of the jungle that waited for me at the 
end of my cattle-train journey from home is 
that the human being has a surprising, an 
, infinite capacity to endure, to learn, to 
invent, to create hope  provided he has the 
will. Neither hunger nor pain, neither hor
ror nor fear have ever shaken me in this 
belief, drawn from one individuals furius 
struggle to survive, physically and morally 
Franklin Schriebe 
EE/EconomicsAmerica should use military only for safety
By Dan Tobias
In my last column I briefly brought up 
the subject of foreign policy and the mil
itary, and said that I would discuss them in 
greater detail in a later column. Here it is.
?
I feel that the only function of 
American military policy 
should be to deter, or defend 
against, a direct attack on American soil. The name Department of 
Defense refers to the fact that it exists to 
defend this country; it should stick to that 
function. This in fact was the original pol
icy of this country. In his first inaugural 
address, Thomas Jefferson said: Peace, 
commerce, and honest friendship with all 
nations  entangling alliances with none. 
And George Washington said in his Fare
well Address, that The great rule in con
duct for us, in regard to foreign nations, is in 
extending our commerical relations to have 
with them as little political connection as 
possible.
Type It Right
Footnotes 
without tears
Full service 
word processing specialists 
Theses, Term-Papers, 
Dissertations 
Disk Storage 
Pickup & delivery available 
Open six days a week 
Mon.-Fri. 7 AM - 7 PM 
Sat. 9 AM - 12 NOON
Type It Right
5909 Penn Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15206 
M 661-3386
However, in the present century', the Uni
ted States has completely abandoned these 
principles in conducting its foreign policy. 
We now intervene politically, diplomati
cally, and militarily all over the world. At 
best this only costs taxpayers losts of money, 
and distorts the economy in favor of the 
military-industrial complex first pointed 
out by President Eisenhower; at worst it 
leads us into senseless wars such as Vietnam, 
at an enormous cost in American lives.
Since the end of World War II, we have 
provided a large amount erf military support 
to Japan and western Europe. The average 
American actually spends more on the 
defense of Japan than does the average Japa
nese. This may have been defensible back 
when Japan was still recovering from its 
defeat in WWII, but considering that their 
economy is so good that American industry 
is taking lessons from them, it is only fair 
that they should be responsible for shoulder
ing their own defense burden. The same is 
true of Europe. There is no justification in 
spending money stolen from American tax
payers on the defense of other industrialized 
nations which could very well defend them
selves if they didnt have us as a big 
brother.
As objectionable as our defense of Europe 
and Japan is, what is far worse is when we 
give aid to cruel dictators whom we call 
allies. Many examples abound in Central 
American and the Middle East. We put the
Shah of Iran in power in the first place, and 
helped keep him in power for decades, des
pite clear evidence of how he was tyranniz
ing his citizens. The CIA even helped him 
set up a secret police organization, SAVAC, 
which persecuted any Iranian who dis
agreed with the government. I find it 
extremely morally objectional that the U.S. 
government can provide assistance to such 
bloody dictators in the name of preserving 
freedom. And we wonder why Iranians 
hate the United States so much! It is true that 
their subsequent seizure of the American 
embassy was a highly immoral and inhu
man act, but it can hardly be considered 
unprovoked.
Our support for Iran might be considered 
ancient history now, but we are still sup
porting several dictatorial regimes now, 
such as the ruling government in El Salva
dor. The usual justification is that they are 
anti-communist. However, isnt the rea
son we are opposed to communist in the 
first place the fact that it leads to dictatorial 
governments? When we protect the world 
from Communism by supporting rightwing governments which are just as repres
sive, it ceases to become at all clear just what 
principles, if any, we are following.
It would be best, then, if we would stop 
this sort of intervention altogether. Often, 
the governments we help overthrow are the 
ones supported by the people of that coun
try. This indicates that it is not their freedom
we care about, but rather the various poliq 
objectives formulated by the U.S. govern
ment, and forced on the rest of the world, 
if every other country is considered the slave 
of America.
One final reason given in the defense 
interventionism is the protection of U.S.] 
citizens and investments abroad. However, 
feel that Americans should be free to tra 
and invest abroad, but that it should bed 
entirely at the individuals own risk. As 
stated in my editorial on drug laws, 
person should be free to evaluate the ri 
and benefits of any action before making 
decision; he should not be obstructed by 
government policy designed for his owl 
good, but neither should he be promised a] 
rescue if he should fall into a crisis of some] 
sort. Consequently, I oppose an interv'en-j 
tionist foreign policy on this basis.
I feel that if the military stuck to defi 
ing the country against direct attack, 
would have numerous good effects on 
country. Taxes would go down, the 
would never be necessary, and the chances 
being involved in a war would di 
Also, there would no longer be so m 
anti-Americanism throughout the world 
this is mostly in reaction to our policies 
global interventionism which make fa 
eigners feel like they are not in control 
their own destinies.
Dan Tobias is a sophomore in App1 
Math and a columnist for The Tartan
Make
Bucks
With
Your
Moonlighting
WiffiYour,Personal Computer
An Insider s Advice on 
liYou Can Earn 
T.housands of Extra 
Dollars
by Robert J Wa>man
Bytes
MOONLIGHTING WITH YOUR PERSONAL COMPUTER
Cull time, part time, or in your 
spare time...
This book helps YOU  the 
computer owner or would-be 
owner  cash in on your PC. 
Available at bookstores, or 
send $7.95 plus $1.00 postage 
and handling to;
World Almanac Publications 
200 Park Ave., Dept UN 
New York, N.Y. 10166

---------------------------------------------------

February 21, 1984The TartanPage 27
'here are better ways of changing the world than war
By Felicia Pratto
When I was eight, I wrote a letter to Presi\ Nixon asking him why people were 
Thting such a destructive war over land in 
1 am. My mother had told me that peoe 1 pie fight over control of land in 
^ wars. I didnt understand how, if 
they kept trying to destroy the 
land, there would be anything 
10f value on it that they would want.
When I was 11,1 found out that the Vietmese were fighting over different ideolog1 convictions. But I still didnt understand 
they didnt just stop fighting because 
u cant change someones mind by killing 
tn. I thought if someone was pointing a 
n at me Id be very afraid. I wouldnt be 
le to think about anything else like adopt7 their political system.
By the time I finished junior high, I had 
^ lots of rhetoric from McCarthyish 
ial Studies teachers about how the Nazis,
J later the Communists, had to be 
pped by the wonderful Americans and 
ir enormous resources which saved the 
,rld from a fate worse than death. We 
Int get involved when the Nazis took over 
rope until we were attacked. Well, we 
,n that one for sure, but we still have to 
>p our guard up, because there are still 
5ple who dont think and act the same 
jy we do. . . .
still have never heard of a war which was 
ight for ideological differences in 
lich an idea was actually destroyed, 
ioved from the face of the earth, once the 
was over. It still seems to me that people 
more about what their friends and famthink about them, than what strangers 
. But it wasnt until I had about finished 
lege that I found out there are ways other 
in war to bring about social, political, 
economic change.
lis is especially strange, because just before 
ras bom, our country underwent a major 
ial change that was non-violent, namely 
civil rights movement. Yet people just a 
years older than me remember theexcluof a huge segment of our population 
the affairs of another segment. Thats 
way it really was only about 30 years ago.
[ere were no whites in black neighbor
hoods, no blacks in white schools, or cafete
rias or stores or restrooms or libraries. There 
weren t many black voters. Blacks were not 
allowed to try on clothes before they bought 
them. They were so effectively excluded 
from white middle class values that very few 
could think about growing up to be doctors 
or lawyers or president. They were truly an 
oppressed people, experiencing severe eco
nomic, civil, and social injustices. Now 
there has been radical legal and social 
change. It is truly revolutionary.
And the practices changed. And the laws 
changed. And the people changed. Some 
resisters were imprisoned. Many were 
lynched and assassinated. But they did not 
use violence, and they won.
Yet this revolution occurred without a 
war, with no organized blood-letting on the 
part of the revolutionaries. It happened 
because many blacks and whites simply 
refused to participate in the practices they 
found so abhorrent. And, by God, if not 
everybody agrees with a standard, it isnt a 
standard anymore. People refused to con
sent to being kept out of segregated movie 
theaters; they walked in. They boycotted 
merchants who only catered to whites. They 
sat in first-row bus seats. They went to white 
schools and universities.
This success of non-violent resistance is 
not a fluke. Pacifism has worked in many 
different cultures, for many different causes, 
in many different centuries. Most of the first 
three centuries of the Christians were paci
fists. Very few joined the Roman army, and 
none served as officers. (In Latin, pacifism 
means peace-making.) They were perse
cuted, imprisoned, crucified, set afire, tom 
to pieces by dogs, and tortured by tyrannical 
rulers. They did not wage war in response, 
but they resisted. A Christian seized the gov
ernors hand as he was in the act of sacrific
ing. Another tore down the first edict of 
persecution posted by Diocletianus. A 
woman dragged to the altar and com
manded to sacrifice upon it kicked it over. 
Eventually, the Roman Empire ceased these 
persecutions.
In 1849, Austria placed Hungary under 
martial law, suppressed its parliament, and 
repealed its constitution. The Hungarian
lympic spirit twisted
army had already been crushed by Austria. 
But the Hungarians, led by political and 
religious leaders, refused to be ruled by these 
foreigners simply in the way they lived.
Instead of recognizing the martial govern
ment of Austria and obeying its decrees, they 
abided by their own constitution and laws. 
They treated Austrian officials as illegal 
persons. When churches were forbidden to 
congregate, church councils met in full 
force. Every minister refused to read the 
edicts the Austrians demanded be read from 
the pulpit. When the ministers were 
arrested, citizens showed solidarity by dress
ing in black to protest. Police broke up 
church meetings to find that huge crowds 
would gather when clergy spoke against 
Austrian rule. Finally, the Austrians had to 
restore the Hungarian constitution and 
reopen parliament.
In this century, pacifists have overcome 
some of the most militarily powerful and 
tyrannical forces in history. India achieved 
independence from Britain through non
violent means. Germany resisted the inva
sion of France and Belgium in 1923. And 
several countries were successful in prevent
ing the destruction of Jews by the Nazis in 
World War II.
For example, in Bulgaria, Bishop Kiril 
told Nazis he would lead a campaign of civil 
disobedience to prevent the Nazis from 
deporting Jews to concentration camps, 
which included lying down in front of 
deportation trains. Thousands of Bulgar
ians marched in street demonstrations and 
sent messages to authorities to protest the 
persecution actions. Bulgarian clergy hid 
Jews and accepted large numbers of Jewish 
converts. They made clear they were 
doing this to protect Jews from violence and 
did not consider the vows binding. These 
and other non-military actions saved all of 
Bulgarias Jews from Nazi death camps.
The Norwegian Evangelical Church also 
resisted facism, although some resisters were 
imprisoned, tortured, and sent to death 
camps. Hitler finally ordered his representa
tive to give up his whole plan for converting 
Norway to a corporative state. The Danes 
saved 93% of their Jewish population in a 
non-violent rescue action. Adolf Eichmann, 
head of the office for extermination of Jews
said that the action against the Jews of 
Denmark has been a failure. Similarly, Fin
land saved all but four of its Jews from death 
camps.
Although the French government at 
Vichy cooperated in sending Jews to their 
deaths, the pacifist Andre Trocmes students 
handed a facsist official a letter saying:
We have learned that in Paris Jews are 
herded into the stadium and then deported. 
After that, all trace of them is lost. This, in 
our Christian eyes, is unbearable. Even 
though such may be the law in northern 
France, we will not obey it if applied here in 
southern France. No matter what the 
government does, we will hide Jews.
The whole town of Le Cham bon suc
ceeded in hiding and smuggling Jews to 
Switzerland, and to resisting the Nazi law 
themselves.
In such situations in which people are 
convinced of their ideas, committed to their 
way so much that they will destroy property, 
individuals, even race to maintain it, people 
always die. In World War II, 40 million 
people died battling the Nazis. Had so many 
been w illing to non-violently resist Nazism, 
they would have been stronger. Had they 
been unwilling to cooperate with Nazis, 
none would have had to submit to their code 
of behavior.
Despite the successes of pacifism, our pac
ifism, our government and citizens are com
mitted to insisting on the use of force and the 
threat of force. They insist military' force 
must back up statements against our ene
mies, despite all indications that neither 
the force nor the threats work. The Soviet 
Union has not given in to the idea that the 
U.S. will have military' superiority, despite 
our constant attempts to get ahead. Four 
nations sent soldiers to Lebanon to show 
support for President Gemayel. They also 
stationed warship and submarines nearby 
equipped with nuclear weapons. Yet the 
inftedible show of might did not stop the 
Druze from ovemmning the country. It has 
also destroyed all chance that we can nego
tiate with them.
But all the examples of pacifism show' 
that we dont have to kill people to maintain 
the values which are precious to us. There is 
another way.
inuBd from page 24
ow else does one explain the medal 
nts, the flags, the anthems  in short, 
intense nationalistic sentiments? If the 
'inpic Games rise above the petty politics 
lormal international affairs, why should 
I one care which nation accumulated the 
I st hardware? If it is the efforts of the 
I ividual athletes that is so inspiring, why I ibute often focused more on their counjb than on them? Why is competition 
| wen nations in the Olympic arena so 
Jch more noble than that which takes 
j:e in the world arena? 
s not just a matter erf someone winning 
someone losing. Obviously, someone 
to win and someone has to lose; thats 
rent in atheletic competition. The 
1 ls that the winning and the losing is 
uted not just to individual atheletes, 
|t0 the countries they represent. Nations 
at expense of other nations. I dont 
anything particularly noble in that. It 
lnds 1116 to much of business as usual. 
rantedpeaceful competition between 
ns *s preferable to violent competition. 
ls that really what lies at the heart of the 
Olympic spirit? The notion erf 
V1duals, regardless erf their nationalities, 
I lng for the best they are capable erf as 
eies eceives lip service, but seems
V forgotten in the heat erf competition. 
^1'* involved weir genuinely interested 
the Olympic ideal, they could at
least remove some of the trappings that 
detract from it. Replace the flags with the 
Olympic banner. Replace the national 
anthems with that of the Olympic Games. 
Theres not much that could be done about 
the attitude of the spectators, but perhaps 
they would catch on eventually.
None erf this will happen soon, if at all. 
The competitions, their governments, and 
their supporters enjoy the national pride 
that Olympic medals gemerate. And theres 
nothing really wrong with that. But as long 
as that remains a central element erf the 
Olympic Games, lets not kid ourselves 
about the purity and nobility of this extrava
ganza. Its for fun, but its a far cry from an 
expression of international brotherhood. 
Lets stop pretending its something its not.
SHAREeHE rOSe OF LIVING
Give to the American Cancer Society.
allegheny 
reproductive 
health 
center
abortion 
menstrual extraction
free pregnancy testing 
vd and contraceptive care
all services confidential
121 s. highland ave., 
Pittsburgh 
363-1107.
 L
THotU* unTTIXt PIZZA j
4523 xaNrta Ar xtAIL [
FREE DELIVERY
621-6755
LARGE +IZZA *2
+RIrE IS FOR +LAIN +IZZA. ALL eO++INGS ARf 
EXeRA. ONE rOq+ON +ER ORDER. NOe VALID 
WIeH ANY OeHER OFFER.
GOOD ON DELIVERY ONLY. MUST ACKNOWLEDGE WHEN 
PLACING ORDER (OFFER EXPIRES Feb29 1984 )

---------------------------------------------------

President 
Elections
March 14 & 15. 1984
Openings in all colleges except GSIA & SUPA. 
To be considered eligible to hold a seat, you must meet the following qualifications:
1. Be an Activities-Fee paying student of CMlT.
2. Be a member of the college in which you are petitioning.
3. File a petition with at lest 25 signatures of Activities-Fee paying CMlT students from vour constituenq
Students may sign only one petition. Duplicate signatures will be invalid on all petitions on which they appear 
for a given college.
4. Submit this petition by 5 p.m. to the Rules Committee mailbox at the Skibo Information Desk.
CANDIDATE S NAME 
ADDRESS___________
PHONE NUMBER
PETITION FOR STUDENT SENATE
We, the undersigned, as members of this candidates constituency, do nominate the above
candidate for a post on the Student Senate as a representative for ___________________
(college).
SignatureName (PRINTED)AddressPhone #
i._2.
3._
4._
6-_7._
8._
9._
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.. 
16. .
17..
18.
19.20.
21. !22. .
23..
24.
25.
26..
27..
28..
29..
30.. 
31.
32..
33..
34..
35..
You may get more than the required 25 signatures, as some may be invalidated. The candidate must be a full-time member of the constituency
Return to the Information Desk by 5 p.m., February 28, 1984
Da Nax use this petition for Presidential Seat. Pick one up at Skibo information desk.
Funded by Activities fee

---------------------------------------------------

by Mark Levine[con tinuedpa
Bntsseo yooR stattsttcs aAas. 
ftou sff, I was up Atl ntght 
I eo eorn tn he Fortran 
I +ROGRMS BAqS eHf 
S~~\ $ySTf(A CRASHED,
I / 'V WH,CH MftD ^ ^LP.woeof _I // \ V RftlTAL...
G ethinst X H|\D To Do id oryli 
psycrtoLosy xPriiaent etAusf 
HfcO Blown it 0Ff "fo 0o ayyuyy i am cm 
S ^ mD (\ petfomm ' \V vii aivt pi^E" y
..VJHiiH \a/AS LATe MRMDy 
BfMusr i h*d -to i^iss Trff 
MSS To 00 A ftMCE-W Tr 
fR DRAMATIC LlURbTUHt WHICH I HAD rtl5S0 TfofIRSTTinf^ Toe, Exactly whpit /SRE You /W0RIN6 IN?
XCSfS
OE FR ATS MANby Mark Levine
Ht, IM RoHtrtt +.q.Q.,ANO 
SOMEONE rALLtO IN SAYIN6 eHAe 
PfofLt WERE SELLING ALCOHOL ATTHIS FMT*MiTf... >
Hi, I'M gi6N [ws e6FNrEmS ANO 
SomoNi CALieo lP F2lPT rh2r 
POPL 'NRE Dl$lM<iERlN6 A 
P.L.t.tJ. OFFICIAL ATTH.S fAATftHrtt.
'LtrnadmmtisMdmMmmimimi^i
KRON KITE AND REXby John Malley
DLktUJJIi A.. 'AUTORS, ,r<6\ AMD
,vrTA.r; Kww \.rt y ma rkma oi wmakt CkCoi
2M TAKTAN iTAFF OFF,TE IN SKI60....................
/ OLD C AM PUS NEWSPAPERS \
! 5I-0ULD FftOVIDE A CLUe TO \
i |io now Umako o>a wakFoc h 
e es,gydTquf ,sf pbgsI sq: T, rnrsL alr /s BfHWD ir.
As XAW/7W3 we CNEcf B*AK IN Mthout" 
AROUS/M SUSPICIONS. XCAN /VAWW-E ANX >-OCK 
EVER MADE. A*/, AWToWE TartnSfwius?
CAFTAlN TH056 57</pi/75 ___________
7fy /VE^ FUNtMV. ___________________
T in Z' Tolp Y<*>50, RK~ fry ler's 6tT~^ 
--------tf 7WESE 0*-E> 75W?TV5 ur-iTtvKS.. ._|. py,T.^toTr. /W, k/HAT 'I jgUg&!f&
A tear fut X*x>R 1 ijQvjhf/4vp Au ?J |/j|fwH>~rni
SVO, CPPTNH. ur A 
THEKE ARE QU1T&A ' 
FEW STUDVT5 ATT/e BAW/NMACHINES. I
JUST 6IVE ME 
A M/Wt/TE...
pr*u'r k''!' 
rK*r on 
fTHCK W/i-t 
6-fr Twc SLAMe
C/VIC w... .
CoFnao Always /GAjKE I TAA//WS.6OQD !PFA. CAFTAIN. V Bur WfM'T TKfTARTWJ ' 
hxPPTb2 p2 5i6tan Kg 
~>N A TJFSOA> AFTEfttfrW 
/-IKE TopAYf y
^XAcr/.T,RE*!spsqL.qTsC30 yD2Td vysqGB<d 
gTfb2fI bsgysNq LLzq LTy2 
sLNyA' ,sL2 yD2Td MsS y/
y>a 0ootok Um*55 0 kt|oW-pAN&ER !- Vljff  " SC?FKSwECK
POINDEXTER(ASlUc MV
Ho pis-ncrw^- il NORopy ftOlMCTlN-m of u.im.Mr rwAr ym
b pP6dyd2l1,9284
ll4 MV ONAl
I Uttle - I
gETTK
WATCH
you ^ 
<^ee(
AM. TMs is TAT 
J UP?-/ r^e niNtt> our RAuiy 
/ fA W<3P
J 6oop Articled
Funnies.

---------------------------------------------------

Events.
Theater
Through Feb. 18 Oh Dad. Poor Dad, Mamma s 
Hung You in the Closet and I'm Feeling So Sad" 
by .Arthur Kopit. Theatre in the Square. Wilkins 
School Community Center, Charleston 8c S. 
Braddock Aves., Regent Square. Fri. 8c Sat. 8 
p.m.; Sun. 2 p.m. 241-7474.
Through Mar. 3  Legend of Lovers by Jean 
Anouilh. CMU Drama Dept., Kresge Theatre, 
CFA. Wed.-Sat. 8 p.m.; Sun. 2 & 8 p.m. 578-2407. 
Through Mar. 11 "Da" by Hugh Leonard. Pgh. 
Laboratory Theatre, 420 N. Craig St., Oakland. 
Thu.-Sun 8:15 p.m.; Sun. 2:30 p.m. 621-2876. 
Through Mar. 11 "Maybe Im Doing It Wrong: 
A Musical Revue of Randy Newmans Music." 
City Theatre Company, Sennott 8c S. Bouquet 
Sts., Oakland. Thu.-Sat. 8 p.m.; Sun. 7 p.m. 624- 
6781.
Through Apr. 1 "Nora-Julie by Ingmar Berg
man. Pgh. Public Theater, Allegheny Square, 
North Side. Tue., Wed. 8c Fri. 8 p.m.; Thu. 8c Sat. 
2 8c 8 p.m.; Sun. 2 8c 7 p.m. 321-9800.
Music
Feb. 22 Adam Ant 8c The Romantics. Stanley 
Theatre, 207 Seventh Ave., Downtown. 8 p.m 
281-2800.
Feb. 22 Jean-Pierre Rampal (flutist). Y Music 
Society, Morris Kaufmann Audit., Jewish Com
munity Center, 315 S. Bellefield Ave., Oakland. 8 
p.m. 521-8010.
Feb. 23 Student Convocation. A horn sextet, with 
John Rusnak (piano). Alumni Concert Hall, 
CFA. 12:30 p.m. 578-2372.
Feb. 23 Carnegie-Mel Ion Wind Ensemble, con
ductor Keith Lockhart. Alumni Concert Hall, 
CFA. 8 p.m. 578-2372.
Feb. 25 Sequentia. Music from the 12th-14th cen
turies. The Renaissance Sc Baroque Society of 
Pgh., Synod Hall, 125 N. Craig St., Oakland. 8:30 
p.m. 562-5707.
Feb. 26 Graduate Recital: Walter Singer (viola). 
Alumni Concen Hall, CFA. 8 p.m. 578-2372. 
Feb. 26 German baroque music. Larry Keifer 
(recorder Sc baroque oboe), Barbara Coeyman 
(viola da gamba), Thomas Frankenberg (viola da
Jf
'V'
FOUR STAR 
PIZZA
Fast FREE Delivery
40 DELIVERY PERSONNEL NEEDED
REQUIREMENTS:
Must be at least 18 
Must have own car 
Must have own insurance 
WAGES:
$3.35 hour to start 
Plus tips
Plus cnmmission for using 
own car 
BENEFITS:
Uniforms furnished and
laundered
Paid vacations
Pension plan for full time
employees
Profit sharing for full 
time employees 
APPLY AT:
Apply in person between 
3-8 PM at 4740 Baum Blvd. 
(beside Mervis Motors) in 
Oakland any day after 
February 22nd.
gamba), Renee Barrick (harpsichord 8c organ) 8c 
Allan Fast (countertenor). Including works by 
G.P. Telemann, J.S. Bach 8c G.F. Handel. Pgh. 
Early Music Group, First Baptist Church of 
Pgh., Bayard 8c Bellefield Sts., Oakland. 7:30 p.m. 
661-3624.
Feb. 26 Vienna Philharmonic, conductor Leo
nard Bernstein. Pgh. Symphony Society, Heinz 
Hall, 600 Penn Ave., Downtown. 7 p.m. 281 - 
5000.
Feb. 26 Organ Artists Series : Marilyn Reiser. 
Pgh. Oratorio Society, Calvary Episcopal 
Church, Shady 8c Walnut Sts. 8 p.m. 366-4513. 
Feb. 28 Senior Recital: Larry Goldberg (composi
tion). Alumni Concert Hall, CFA. 8 p.m. 578- 
2372.
Feb. 28 Duran Duran Conert. Civic Arena, 
Downtown. 7:30 p.m. 642-2062.
Exhibits
Through Feb. 24 Flora Portrayed: Classics of 
Botanical Art from the Hunt Institute Collec
tion." Hunt Institute for Botanical Documenta
tion, Penthouse, Hunt Library. Mon.-Fri. 8:30 
a.m.-noon Sc 1-5 p.m.
Through Feb. 25 Nance OBanion (paper 8c 
fiber). CFA. Mon.-Fri. 9 a.m.-5 p.m. 578-2409. 
Through Feb. 26 Richard Devlin. Associated 
Artists of Pgh. Gallery, Pgh. Center for the Arts, 
Fifth 8c Shady Aves., Shadyside.
Through Feb. 26 Miniature Railroad and Vil
lage. Buhl Science Center, Allegheny Square, 
North Side. Mon.-Fri. 1-5 p.m.; Thu. 8c Fri. 6:30- 
9:30p.m.; Sat. 10a.m.-9:30p.m.; Sun. l-9:30p.m. 
321-4302.
Through Feb. 26 Italian Portrait Drawings 
from North American Collections. Univ. Art 
Gallery, Frick Fine Arts Bldg.,Schenley Park Dr., 
Oakland. Tue.-Sat. 10a.m.-4 p.m.; Sun. 2-5 p.m. 
624-4118.
Through Feb. 29 Gail Kaplan (photogrpahy). 
Pgh. Film-Makers, 205 Oakland Ave., Oakland. 
Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m.-8 p.m.; Sat. noon-3 p.m. 681- 
5449.
Through Mar.l Audrey Flack. Hewlett Gallery, 
CFA. Mon.-Fri. 11 a.m.-4 p.m.; Sat. noon-4 p.m.; 
Sun. 1-4 p.m.
Through Mar. 11 David Aschkenas, Kenneth 
Bausta, Ron Bennett, Lillian Kefalos Sc Philip 
Rostek. Pgh. Plan for Art, 407 S. Craig St., Oak
land. Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m. 
683-7600.
Through Mar. 18 Susan Rothenburg. Con
temporary paintings. Gallery D, Carnegie 
Museum of Art, 4400 Forbes Ave., Oakland. 
Tue.-Sat. 10a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m. 622-3212. 
Through Apr. 21 Fairfield Porter (1907-1975): 
Realist Painter in an Age of Abstraction. Galler
ies 12 8c B, Carnegie Museum of Art, 4400 Forbes 
Ave., Oakland. Tue.-Sat. 10a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 
p.m. 622-3283.
Through Apr. 29 Arctic Plant Life: Adaptations 
for Survival. Changing Exhibits Gallery, Carne
gie Museum of Natural History, 4400 Forbes 
Ave., Oakland. Tue.-Sat. 10a.m.-5p.m.; Sun. 1-5
p.m. 622-3283.
Through Apr. 29 Natural World Photographic 
Exhibition." CMNH Gallery, Carnegie Museum 
of Natural History, 4400 Forbes Ave., Oakland. 
Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m. 622-3283. 
Feb. 28-Mar. 9 Fiber 84 Velar. Velar Gallery', 
GSIA. 578-4384.
Feb. 25-Apr. 21 Japanese Prints by Utagawa 
kunisada I (Toyokuni III) 1830-1860. Gallery 
10, Carnegie Museum of Art, 4400 Forbes Ave., 
Oakland. Tue.-Sat. 10a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m. 
622-3212.
Dance
Feb. 23-26 Serenade, Yerma 8c Etudes. 
Pgh. Ballet Theatre, Heinz Hall, 600 Penn Ave., 
Downtown. Fri. 8c Sat. 8 p.m.; Sun. 1 p.m. 281- 
0360.
Feb. 25 Janet Gillespie 8c Present Company, with 
The Pgh. Quartet. Antonian Theater, Carlow' 
College, Fifth Ave., Oakland. 8 p.m. 682-3179.
Readings
Feb. 21 Elizabeth Drescher (poetry) 8c Sandra 
Ford (non-fiction). The Back Room, Heming
ways, 3911 Forbes Ave., Oakland. 8:30 p.m. 624- 
6642.
Films
Through Mar. 4 Juried Selection from the 1983 
Three Rivers Arts Festival Video Exhibition. 
Video Exhibition Room, Carnegie Museum of 
Art, 4400 Forbes Ave., Oakland. Continuous 
showing: Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m. 
622-3283.
Feb. 21 The Bad Seed by Mervyn LeRoy (1956). 
PghPlayhouse. 222 Craft Ave., Oakland. 7:30 Sc 
9:40 p.m. 621-4445.
Feb. 21 Lakes of Switzerland (Travel Adven
ture Films). Carnegie Institute, Carnegie Music 
Hall, 4400 Forbes Ave., Oakland. 1 7 p.m.
622-3314.
Feb. 22 Bedazzled with Peter Cook, Dudley 
Moore 8c Racquel Welch (1967). Pgh. Playhouse, 
222 Craft Ave., Oakland. 7:30 8c 9:30 p.m. 621 - 
4445.
Feb. 23 Hamlet with Laurence Olivier (1948). 
Activities Board, Doherty Hall 2210. 6, 8:30 8c 11 
p.m. 578-2105.
Feb. 23 Face to Face with Liv Ullman, by 
Ingmar Bergman (Sweden 1976). Pgh. Play
house, 222 Craft Ave., Oakland. 7:30 8c 9:50 p.m. 
621-4445.
Feb. 24 The Enforcer with Clint Eastwood 
(1976). Activities Board, Doherty Hall 2210.6,88c 
TO p.m. 8c midnight. 578-2105.
Feb. 24 Harold and Maude with Ruth Gordon 
8c Bud Cort (1971). PghPlayhouse, 222 Craft 
Ave., Oakland. 7:30, 9:30 8c 11:30 p.m. 621-4445. 
Feb. 24 The Passion of Anna by Ingmar Berg
man (Sweden 1970). English subtitles. Carnegie
FORM 1040A
The Form 1040A has a new look this year! Now 
you can use it even if you 
have an IRA or claim the Child and Disabled Dependent Care Credit. Check the instructions 
in your tax package for 
details.
<3ZmP.i
A PUBLIC SERVICE MESSAGE PROM THE INTERMAL REVE VLE SERVICE
Institute, Carnegie Lecture Hall, Schenlev p 
Dr., Oakland. 8 p.m. 622-3212. 3rt
Feb. 25 Video in Person: Tony Oursler a, 
gram including Ourslers work The L0^! 
(1980), Grand Mai" (1981) 8c Son 0f rv!
(1982). Pgh. Film-Makers, 205 Oakland \ 
Oakland. 8 p.m. 681-5449.
Feb. 25 200 Motels with Theodore Bikel 1^ 
Moon, Ringo Stan 8c Frank Zappa (197j ( ^ 
dent Dormitory Council, Doherty Hall 2210 
8c 10 p.m. 8c midnight. 578-2114.
Feb. 25 Gandhi with Ben Kingsley, by Ru 
Attenborough (UK 1982). Pgh. Playhouse 0 
Craft Ave., Oakland. 7:30 p.m. 621-4445.
Feb. 25 Over the Edge by Jonathan Kapl, 
(1979). Carnegie Institute, Museum 0[ ^ 
Theater, 4400 Forbes Ave., Oakland. 8 p.m ft* 
3212.
Feb. 26 The Killer Elite" with James Q 
Robert Duvall, by Sam Peckinpah (1975) 
Film-Makers, 205 Oakland Ave., Oakland, 
p.m. 681-5449.
Feb. 26 Bringing Up Baby with kathi 
Hepburn 8c Cary Grant (1938). Pgh. Playh( 
222 Craft Ave., Oakland. 7:30 8c 9:30 p.m 
4445.
Feb. 26 "Belgium (Travel Adventure Film), 
negie Institute, Carnegie Music Hall, 4400F< 
Ave., Oakland. 2:30 p.m. 622-3314.
Feb. 27 Jabberwocky" with Michael 1 
1977). Pgh. Playhouse, 222 Craft Ave.,
7:30 8c 9:30 p.m. 621-4445.
Feb. 28 The Trial with Anthony Pi 
Jeanne Moreau 8c Romy Schneider, by 
Welles (France-Italy-Germany 1963). Pgh, 
house, 222 Craft Ave., Oakland. 7:30 8c 9:40 
621-4445.
Current Films
Backstage at the Kirov. Not rated. Squ 
Hill, 5824 Forward Ave., Squirrel Hill. 421-7! 
Broadway Danny Rose with Woody 
Mia Farrow. Rated PG (1984). Squirrel Hill,: 
Forward Ave., Squirrel Hill. 421-7900. 
Never Cry Wolf. Rated PG (1983). Manor,! 
Murray Ave., Squirrel Hill. 421-1633.
The Right Stuff (AA Nominee) with 
Quaid 8c Sam Shepard (AA Nominee).
(1983). Kings Court, 3807 Forbes Ave., Oak 
421-7900.
Silkwood with Meryl Streep (AA Nomin 
Cher (AA Nominee). Rated R (1983).
1729 Murray Ave., Squinel Hill. 421-1633. 
Yenti with Barbra Streisand. Rated PG (19f 
Regent .Square, 1035 S. Braddock Ave., 
wood. 241-2332.
Sports
Feb. 22 HOCKEY. Penguins vs. Edn 
Civic Arena, Downtown. 7:30 p.m. i 
Feb. 23 SOCCER. Spirit vs. Cleveland. 
Arena, Downtown. 7:30 p.m. 642-2062. 
Feb. 24 WRESTLING. Matches to 
announced. Civic Arena, Downtown. 8 p.* 
2062.
Feb. 24 MENS BASKETBALL. CMU vs. 1 
Main gym, Skibo Gym. 8 p.m. 578-2212. 
Feb. 25 HOCKEY. Penguins vs. Chicago $ 
Arena, Downtown. 8 p.m. 642-2062.
Unitedway
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
Free Pregnancy Testing 
For a confidential friend call:
UFEUNE
Downtown Pgh 562J
Beaver County 843-
Mon Valley 489-
Butler County 282-^
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE SEST*

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
Housing
Immediate sublet available. Large room with pri
vate shower and bath in beautiful, spacious 
home. Mature female person preferred. Call 
Jason or Samira 621-4624 or 682-3860.
Jobs
Help Wanted: 2 full-time positions available in 
sunny Santa Barbara, California. Lisp systems 
programmer  will be developing 68,000 Lisp. 
Knowledge engineer  will be developing expert 
system on Symbolics 3600. Contact Denison Bollay, inference technologies division of The Origi
nal Computer Camp, Inc. 800-235-6965. 
Hundreds of careers at the technological cutting 
edge. Silicon Valley Jobguide: $4.95. Sunbelt 
indexing, 2615 South Mission, Tucson, Arizona, 
85713.Hundreds of careers at the technological cutting 
edge. Silicon Valley Jobguide: $4.95. Sunbelt 
Indexing, 2615 South Mission, Tucson, Arizona,
85713.
Hundreds of careers at the technological cutting 
edge. Silicon Valley Jobguide: $4.95. Sunbelt 
Indexing, 2615 South Mission, Tucson, Arizona,
85713.
Wanted: Success-oriented, self-motivated individ
ual to work 2-4 hours per week placing and 
filling posters on campus. Earn $500-plus each 
school year. 1-800-243-6679.
Writer/proofreader for term papers, theses, 
manuscripts. Have BA and MA in English. Call 
341-7426.
Fulltime, part time work as bodyguard, $10 hr. 6'
tall jock types preferred. More information call
746-4565.
Researcher, assistant researcher for writer, stu
dent, professor. Have BA in Sociology/English 
and MA in English. Have done extensive 
research. Interested in any area. 341-7426.
Services
Moving? We go in the snow. Call Second Mile 
jght Hauling, ask for Vince 231-2766.
Attention CMU sunbathers! Surfs up but our
prices arent! From just $109  spend 7 fun-filled 
days in sunny Florida. Call for yourself or organ
ize a small group and travel FREE! Great for 
clubs, too! Call LUV TOURS 800-368-2006, ask 
for Annette.
Easiest cleaning is cleaning you do not have to 
do. MINUTE-MAID SERVICES. Quick, effi
cient service for 4H years. 682-3860.
Typing/word processing. Theses, term papers, 
manuscripts, resumes, letters, etc. (APA, MLA, 
and Turabian manuals strongly followed). Spe
cialize in last-minute work. Call our 24-hour ser
vice 371-3657.
Income tax returns prepared by professional  
reasonable. Call for an appointment. 261-1860 or 
421-6932.
Identify your organization with a custom printed 
T-shirt or jersey. We silk-screen print shirts for 
the campus community. Call the T-Shirt Com
pany at 578-3535 and speak to John for details. 
Flying Fingers Word Processing. Business/aca
demic papers, resumes, cover letters, etc. Editing 
included. Erika Van Sickel 731-8978.
For Sale/Wanted
Adoption: Loving, well-educated, financially 
secure couple desires white newborn. All 
expenses paid. Legal. Confidential. Call us col
lect. 617-358-6354.
Is it true you can buy jeeps for $44 through the 
U.S. government? Get the facts today! Call 312- 
742-1142 ext. 3401-A.
Clubs
at x4826 or Andy Sicree at 621-2911 as soon as 
possible.
Student Senate will meet at 5:00 p.m. on Tues
day, February 21 in the board room on the 5th 
floor  Warner Hall. All students invited. 
Explorers Club. Kayaking, cross-country skiing, 
and hiking trip>s. Meetings on Thursdays, 6:30 
Skibo Room 12.
AIESEC, the International Association of Stu
dents in Economics and Business Management, 
will hold its weekly meeting, Wednesday at 4:30 
in Skibo Room 11. Students of all majors are 
invited to participate in AIESECs intemadonal 
exchange and management development 
programs.
Personals
To my little grapiefruits, I am hopelessly in love 
with you, whatta hell should I do now? Motel 6
Religion
Care about the right to life? Like to get involved? 
Join the CMU Association for Life. Call Terry 
Turton at x4826 or Pat Falco at x8618 for more 
information. Remember: Rest Easy, Youve 
Already Been Bom.
PRO-LIFE COLLEGE STUDENTS: Attend 
the 1984 Youth Pro-Life Convention at Indiana 
University of Pennsylvania on March 9, 10 and 
11. Cost for food and lodging for enure weekend 
is $10. Ride to IUP with CMU college students. 
Lots of interesting seminars and entertainmenmt. If interested, please contact Terry Turton
39, Mondav-Friday at 12:30 p.m. Call 681-3181 
for more information.
Mondays are special! Every Monday night from 
8-9, in Skibo Room 39, an Informal Bible Discus
sion group meets to talk about Gods Word as it 
relates to campus life. Everyone is welcome to 
participate in this time of learning and fellow
ship. For further information, please call 441- 
0819 and ask for John.
General
TECH HOUSE: CMUs on-campus, Catholic, 
co-operative house is looking for students inter
ested in joining the house for the 84-85 school 
year. Interested men and women are asked to call 
Andy, Lisa, Michele, or Judy at 621-2911. Please 
call as soon as possible as we are filling the house 
now.
Bible talk group meets every Monday evening at 
8 in Skibo Room 39. For a great time of learning 
and fellowship, this is the place to be. Set some 
time aside and be there! For more information, 
call 441-0819, and ask for John.
Byzantine Catholic Mass. Divine Liturgy is cele
brated at 7 p.m. on Saturday in Skibo 39. All 
Byzantine Catholics and anyone interested in the 
eastern rite church is invited to join us.
Catholic Students: Join the Oratory Wednesdaynight group each week for Mass (at 6 p.m.), a free 
dinner and a discussion/fellowship. Everyone is 
welcome. Meet at Tech House at 5:30 or the 
Morewood Gardens entrance at 5:45 for the walk 
up. Call Andy at 621-2911 for more information. 
Catholic Mass Schedule. Sunday mass in Hunt 
Multipurpose Room, at 7 p.m. Saturday and 
10:30 a.m. Sunday. Daily mass in Skibo Room
European Studies Program announces a compe
tition for best undergraduate essay on any aspect 
of European culture, history, or contemporary 
society. Prize is $150. Length should be 15-25 
pages. Essays may be based on course papiers, but 
should be revised and reworked. Direct submis
sions and queries to Peter Steams, BH 242B. 
Deadline is November 9, 1984.
Anthony Penna, associate dean of H&SS, will 
have op>en office hours for students between 2 and 
5 p.m. every Wednesday. Students who wish to 
meet with Dr. Penna should telephone his office, 
578-2830, to set up an appointment.
Deutscher Stammtisch, German language table, 
Thursdays, noon. Morewood Dining Room. Stu
dents, faculty, staff welcome. Sponsored by European Studies and Modem Language Programs.
Have you any compliments or complaints about 
anything academic at CMU? Please tell is at Aca
demic Affairs Comm, c/o Skibo Info Desk. 
Women  over 25, in school, new career: Aca
demic Bag Ladies meet over lunch 12-1 Thurs
days, 4515 Forbes. For information: 682-6886.
La Table Franaise, French language table, 
Tuesdays, noon. Morewood Dining Room. Stu
dents, faculty, staff welcome. Sponsored by Euro
pean Studies and Modem Language Programs. 
ATTENTION, CONSERVATIVES! If you are 
a conservative with an interest in increasing your 
political involvement and .influence, write us. 
Well send you free information packets on for
eign policy, economic and social issues and a free 
Activist kit. Tell us your past experience as a 
conservative activist to qualify for job bank and 
training seminar information. Write The 
National Center for Public Policy Research, 214 
Mass. Ave. N.E., Ste. 580, Wash., DC 20002.
rollect them
mon 
-2062. 
id. 
to
p.mi
vs. Hi 
:i2.
aPO.]
ediy
For A FREE +txxa!
>2^
13-06
39-$
32-1^1
Dominos 
Pizza
Every time you order a 
pizza from Domino s Pizza 
clip the value dot tab and 
save it
Save four value dot tabs and get your next 12 oneitem pizza FREE
Save fiv value dot tabs 
and get your next 16 oneitem pizza FREE
Expires 4 30 84
Redeem them at any 
participating Domino s 
Pizza m your area Good 
for a limited time only
Call Us!681-1700
310 N Craig St
Hours
11 am-2 am Sun -1 hurs 
11 am-3am Fri & Sat
Our drivers carry less 
than $20 00 
Limited delivery area
DOMINOSPIZZA
DELIVERSFREE

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie-Melton University1984 Summer Session
Tentative Undergraduate and Graduate Courses for Summer Sessions
(1 )  Offered in the first session
(2)  Offered in the second session
(1 &2)  Course runs through both sessions (14 weeks)
 Graduate course number
Chemistry09-105Dynamics and Equilibria10 units(1)
09-117Organic Chemistry 19 unitsCO
09-218Organic Chemistry II9 units(2)
Civil Engineering12-110Introdyptory Engineering Economics9 units(1)
12 207Statics9 units(1)
12 208Dynamics9'units(2)
12-212Solid Meehan ics/Sol id Mechanics 
Laboratory
12 units(2)
Computer Science15-111introduction to Computing B9 units(1&2)
15-118Introduction to Computing C9 units(1&2)
Mathematics21-112Calculus II (H8tSS)10 units(1)
21-121Calculus I10 units(1 ) (2)
21-122Calculus II10 units(1) (2)
21-127Dsicrete Mathematics of Computer 
Science
9 units(1) (2)
21-259Methods of Applied Math i9 units '(1 ) (2)
21-260Methods of Applied Math n9 units(1)(2)
Mechanical Engineering21-112Fluid Mechanics10 units(1)
24-121T hermodynarmes9 units(1)
24-141Statics and Dynamics12 units(1)
Metallurgy and27-322Process Metallurgy12 units(1&2)
Materials Science27-332Physical Metallurgy II9 units-(1&2)
27 350Industrial Projects Seminar9 units(1&2)
27-390industrial Internship Option,0 units(1&2)
27-755Metallurgical ProblemsVar units(142)
27-756-Masters ProjectVar units(1&2)
27-775"ThesisVar units(1&2)
39-300Analysis. Synthesis and Evaluation12 units(1&2)
Physics33-121
33-122
33-123
Physics I Mechanics (self paced) 
Physics II Heat Waves and Optics 
(self-paced)
Physics III Electricity and Magnetism 
(self-paced)
10 units 
10 units 
10 units
Gh1 GE1 
Gh1 GE1 
4nGE1
33-129Electronics 110 units(l)
Statistics36-101Statistical Concepts with Computer 
Applications
9 units0)(2)
36-209Probability and Applied Statistics for 
Management and Social Science I
9 units(i)
36-210Probability and Applied Statistics for 
Management and Social Science II
9 units(1 ) (2)
36-211Probability and Applied Statistics for 
Physical Science and Engneenng 1
9 unitsCD (2)
36 212Probability and Applied Statistics for 
Physical Science and Engineering II
9 units(1 ) (2)
36 215Probability and Statistics I9 units(1)
36-216Probability and Statistics II9 units(2)
36-219Statistical Methods for Data Analysis !9 units(1)
36-220Statistical Methods for Data Analysis II9 units0)(2)
Biomedical Engineering42 500Physiology ('42-735)9 units(2)
42-560BME Undergraduate Projects9-12 units(1)
Architecture48-280Architectural Design Level H 
Elaboration
12 unitsCO
Design51-102Introduction to Design18 units(2)
51-116Calligraphy9 units(2)
51-122Introduction to Photography9 units(1)(2)
51-211Drawing9 units(1)
51-381Symmetry, Structure and Form9 units(2)
Music (at' courses offered57-151Harmony 16 units
June 25 to August 3)57-181 
57-228 ^ 
57-255 
57-257
Soifegel 
Chamber Music 
Counterpoint 1 
Orchestration 1
6 units 
3 units 
6 units 
6 units
Administration and 
Management Science
tconomics
English
History
Philosophy 
Psychology 
Special Programs
Carnegie-Mellon University, during the 
summer, 1984, will hold two seven-week 
sessions as follows:
1 st seven-week session
May 15 - June 29 
Regular Undergraduate Courses
2nd seven-week session 
July 2 - August 17
Regular Graduate and Undergraduate 
Courses
Undergraduate Tuition:
$66 per unit  All undergraduates
Graduate Tuition:
$126 per unit" - CFA/H&SS/CIT/MCS 
$104 per unit"  M.A. and D.A. in English 
and History 
"  3 units * 1 credit
57-407
57-454
57-581
57-000
57-867'
57-873
57-875'
60-1 I 7 31 7 71 7' 
60-224
60-228 328728' 
60 231 331 731 *
60-233.333.733' 
60-235.335.735' 
SO 237 337737' 
60 380.780' 
60-381
60-382
70-101 
70-121 
70-311 
70-361 
70 371 
70 381 
70-391
73-100
73-250__
73-300
73-360
76 100
76 101
76-244
76-265
76-270
76-301
76 351751 '
76 371.771' 
76-431/831'
76-441/841'
76-442/842-
76-471
76-90T
79-307 
79 308
79 356
80 354 
85-101
Form and Analysis 
Jazz improvisation 
Dalcroze Eurhythmies Workshop I 
(June 25 through Jgne 29 
Dalcroze Eurhythmies Workshop ii 
(June 25 through July 13)
Applied Study in voice, piano, organ 
harp, violin, viola, violincelio. string bass 
guitar flute oboe clarinet bassoon 
french horn trumpet trombone tuba 
composition
Administration and Supervision in 
Music Educqtion 
Principles of Music.Education 
Contemporary Problems in 
Music Education 
Drawing
Art and the Computer 
Pamtmg
Beginning Screen Printing (May 15-June
1)
-Relief
Lithography
intaglio
Contemporary Art 
ndependent Study 
Contemporary issues in Art History 
(May 29-June 29)
Curatorial Practices (May 29-June 29)
Elements of industrial Administration
Accounting I
Organizational Behavior i
Foundations of Law
Production I
Marketing I
Finance i
Principles of Economics 
intermediate Microeconomics 
Intermediate Macroecommcs 
Econometrics
Strategies for Writing
Reading Literature
Shakespeare
Survey of Genres Poetry
Writing for the Professions
internship
American Studies American Prose and 
Poetry
Rhetoric in Social Interaction 
Advanced Studies in World Literature 
Drama of the Absurd 
Advanced Studies in Literature 
Chaucer
Advanced Studies in British Literature Tennyson, Browning, Arnold 
Internship in Technical Writing and 
Editing
Internship English
Twentieth'Century America 
Recent American Foreign Policy 
The Second World Wor
Social-Political Philosophy
General Psychology
6 units 
3 units 
3 units
9 units
6-12 units 
6 units
6 units 
6 units
9 units(2)
9 units(2)
9 units(2)
9 units(1)
9 units(2)
9 units(2)
9 units(2)
9 units(2)
9 units(1)
9 units(1)
9 units(0(2)
9 units(1) (2)
9 units(1)
9 units(2)
9 units(1)
9 units(I)
9 units0) (2)
9 units(1)(2)
9 units(1X2)
9 units(1X2)
9 units(1)
9 units(1X2)
9 units(1X2)
9 units(1X2)
9 units(1)
9 unitsCl) (2)
O-18 unitsCl > (2)
9 units(1)
9 units(2)
9 units(2)
9 units(1)
9 units(1)
9 units(0(2)
9 units'(2)
9 units(1 ) (2)
9 units(1)'
9 units(1)
9 units(1)
9 unitsCD
European Studies Program 
PARIS. 1984  June 5 throiugh July 31 
GERMANY. 1984  June 11 through 
August 3
Pittsburgh Smyphony Orchestra/ 
Carnegie-Mellon University 
Summer Music institute 
June 25 through August 3
Military Science  Army ROTC 
Intensive Summer Study Program 
August, 1984
School of Urban & Public Affairs 
QSSl/QSSP Workshops 
June 10 through August 3
This is a tentative" list of courses to be 
offered. The actual list of courses including 
class schedules will be announced and pub
lished depending upon student response. 
Application materials and further 
information will be mailed upon receipt of 
your inquiry. 
Please give your tentative reply as soon 
as possible by completing the attached 
form and returning it to: 
Director, Summer Studies 
Carnegie-Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
Phone: (412) 578-6620
Carnegie-Mellon University
Name.
Mailing Address.
Present School
I I am interested in the following courses: 
Course No. Title Session
Please return this form to:
Director, Summer Studies 
Carnegie-Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
