/7&Co r&
.gp* y.* ,;tw
.. c-- Iff z .,
jgjjSjSWfsrBsgjggg-1;
.X&KsV*
SWBft&S^lKW6^
.-* <(
jlfcVsS^SsJjitfif:
 -
SSS
JWHMMNNil
Number '"3  MARCH 10, 1909 i:0^srSth=ecoepayr
The Tartai?
Published Weekly by Students of the 
CARNEGIE TECHNICAL SCHOOLS

---------------------------------------------------

In the game with
2,000 Students
TyTyTWvWTyTWTWVWWTWTWTWTW^WTWlVTW
AT HEIMERTS 
| Furnishings to MEN WHO KNOW 1t &  ------------------------------------------------------------------------ .J.?  ------------ A
I A, HEIMERT IcnZt I
3614 FORBES A\E,
*t**tf
***
***
*
IPILPUDEBH& HDLPL EPL SOLP HDPLL 
HDSN,EBT ,HNTLBH, EH REPBLAYL CLUD 
oDS EPL ,tLBTYBA hSBL LOLP TEnS HDL eBSo oDS SN EPL EBT oDEH 
SN DEOL HS ,LssW iPL SN HEseYBA 
oYHD HDLh HDPSNAD HDL ETOLPHY,YBA 
USsNhB, Sl CDL CEPHEBW kLHHLP hEeL 
EPPEBALhLBH, lSP ,tEUL Yl SN oEBH 
SNP ,DEPL Sl CLUD hSBL2l SN 
oEBH HS 3ALH YB HDL AEhL&J oPYHL HS
Advertising Manager The Tartan
REPBLAYL CLUDBYUEs fUDSSs,
IP-L UDE BH-U &USO N,&&PDT
r g IRAYCot Yh Yn &ne kS, hs WiReAono Tl Ask iW u C
f DANCING I
g
1 JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY o c*
CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS.
Private Afternoons and Evenings 
Classes Wednesday and Saturday
Hall will be repted for Euclire and Dancing 
Parties.
EVERY |
TECHNICAL MAN
needs one of the following 
Engineering Journals:
avaRCd2Riv m.dvn
The foremost authority of the world on all 
branches of electrical work.
Weekly Edition, $j.oo. Monthly Edition, $i.oo
Cwa ac2caad2c daR.dn
The most valuable paper published for 
the civil and mechanical engineer.
Published Weekly$j.oo a Year
avaRCd2R di2vmiX M.1dciv
The undisputed authority on the construc
tion, operation and management of city 
and inter-urban railways.
Published Weekly$3.00 a Year
O*O%O'\'0%O\O\O\D\0\O%O%OV0\DSO\D%O%D.%
ftLUYEs dEHL, HS fHNTLBH, 
fEhtsL RStYL, SB dL6NL,H
IUdim 01kv2fw2c R.-
py mL,H y fHPLLH    cLo XSPe)>
THE RITTENHOUSE
of Carnegie Tech.
KUHNS
IN THE RITTENHOUSE
Affords Superior Facilities for g 
Serving Dinners, Balls 
and Banquets.
The Ball Room floor is cushioned 
making it perfect for dancing.
 Special Inducements to Students 
*xosoxoxasosvsowsoxasasosoxoxosvsaxv

---------------------------------------------------

VOL. Ill, No. 23
Cariati
PITTSBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY, MARCH 10, 1909TEN CENTS
THE THISTLE
The Thistle Board takes this opportunity of re
minding the students that a successful year book 
necessitates the hearty co-operation of all the stu
dents in all the schools. The Thistle is designed to 
be a permanent record of student activities, and a 
lasting reminder of all that is best and dearest in 
college life. It must fall short of its purpose, unless 
every student takes a personal interest and feels an 
individual responsibility in the production of the 
book. It is the ambition of the Thistle Board to 
make the 1909 Thistle rank high in the list of col
lege year books. The realization of that ambition 
rests in a large measure with the student body.
One man has been appointed, or will be appointed, 
in each section to collect material for the book. See 
that you have something ready for him when he 
calls.
Things are constantly happening in class or out 
of class which deserve to go down as part of the 
permanent history of the school. Some of the rarest 
bits of humor are lost for want of somebody to re
cord them. Jokes, cartoons, and pointed rhymes, all 
help to make the book of greater interest to you as 
well as to the casual reader.
Remember, time flies. All designs and cartoons 
should be in before the third week of March. Boxes 
will be placed in the corridors for the reception of 
contributions from the student body at large, or they 
may be handed to any member of the Thistle Board. 
That you may know your representatives on this 
board, the list is printed below:
aTYHSPhRDYLlR. E. Noble...................................Applied Science (Day)
i,,Y,HEBH aTYHSPYBRDYLlMrs. Elizabeth M. Longdon..........M. M. C. S. (Night)
i,,SUYEHL aTYHSP,-
Applied Science.....................................R. K. Culbertson
Applied Design.................................................F. H. Smart
A. & J..............................................................Jos. G. Wehs
M. M. C. S.......................................Miss Madeline Moore
iPH aTYHSPF. G. Bruton.................................Applied Design (Night)
iHDsLHYU aTYHSPW. S. Davis....................................................A. & J. ?Day)
kN,YBL,, IEBEALPH. A. Neel.....................................Applied Science (Day)
fLUPLHEPMiss Anna M. Lindsey......................M. M. C. S. (Night)
E. Israeli............................................Applied Design (Day)
E. W. Boyer.................................Applied Design (Night)
F. S. Jamison..............................................A. & J. (Night)
John Rawlings...........................................A. & J. (Night)
Miss Edith Glenn...................................M. M. C. S. (Day)
An effort is being made to organize a Banjo Club 
in connection with the Glee and Mandolin Clubs. 
.Several men have already expressed their willingness 
to take up the Banjo, and only a few more men are 
needed to make the attempt a success. The question 
of a musical director has already been arranged for, 
provided the club is organized. Arrangements have 
been made so that any one, who plays a violin or 
mandolin, and is willing to take up a banjo, can do 
so, and these mep are badly needed. A few guitars 
are also needed to play with the proposed club. It 
is hoped to start the rehearsals of this club the be
ginning of next term, so that they can be used in the 
spring concerts of the Glee and Mandolin Clubs.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
We know that there a lot of good musicians in the 
school who have not come out for the Varsity mu
sical organizations. Banjo Clubs are at a premium 
and comparatively few colleges have them. Come 
out, fellows, and help us make this thing a grand suc
cess. Bay and night students alike are eligible for 
this organization. For further information see 
Koethen (Day), Chem. Lab., or King (Day), Archi
tectural Dept., or, drop in at the Glee and Mandolin 
Clubs rehearsal on Sunday afternoon at 3 oclock.
Gw.0K2cf.c fI2Cw f0aiKf iC R.v1Ik2iThe following talk was delivered before the Kings 
Crown of Columbia University, and appeared in the 
Columbia Spectator, of February 25. Its applica
tion to local conditions is so pertinent, it will well 
bear the repetition.
Taking as his subject, American Mud and Those 
it Spatters, he denounced in the strongest terms the 
policy of several New York yellow journals and 
showed the evils resulting from the wide circulation 
of their editorials.
In brief he spoke as follows: My purpose tonight 
is to bring to you as simply and crisply as possible 
a phase of our civilization, or want of it, which has 
not its counterpart in any other quarter of the globe. 
Red Indians, Turks, South Sea Islanders, Hottentots 
all the tribes of the earth, no matter how uncivilized 
or how ignorant, speak well of their decent dead and 
honor their decent living. In the United States we 
fling mud.
Mr. Smith then showed how in the case of all the 
Spanish War heroes as well as President McKinley 
and many another American who should be revered 
and honored by all, the tide had for a few months 
at most but usually for a few weeks been all in their 
favor but had then turned. As the speaker expressed 
it: nor is the mud-flinging confined alone to the 
press. No more disgraceful scene the world over 
has ever been witnessed than the one which took 
place only a few months ago in the closing hours 
of the Assembly of the greatest State in the Union, 
when men elected by the people rose to their feet 
and hissed the name of Governor Hughes because 
he had the courage and honesty to urge them to do 
their duty.
Nor do we have to go far afield to watch the game. 
For months past several of our New York newspa
pers have filled their columns with abuse of those 
in authority. If there are five editorials on their 
pages it is safe to say that three of them will be de
voted each to the villification of some one man. 
There are papers edited and owned by free-born 
American citizens of clear blood, whose ancestors 
helped to build up the Republic and who must turn 
in their graves when they see how hard their de
scendants are trying to defame it.
These attacks are seldom made on the common 
man, but on those whose official positions make it 
impossible for them to strike back. The man with
the hoe could seek out the writer and break his head 
with the handle, but the man with a name for good 
breeding and official dignity must continue to suffer 
in silence.
After quoting the editorial which appeared in the 
New York Journal on the birthday of Thomas Jeffer
son, April 13, 1898, comparing very unfavorably the 
personalities and character of Jefferson and McKin
ley he continued, Ten years have past since this 
filth was thrown at one of the bravest and most con
scientious presidents who ever occupied the White 
House. Since then he has become one of the coun
trys martyrslargely and perhaps directly because 
of the influence of the editorial I have just read you 
and similar attacks inflaming and perverting the 
imaginations of fanatics, one of whom took his life.
Mr. Smith next spoke of the comments on Presi
dent Roosevelt and then told the story of a plain, 
common American mana man from the people 
one who through all his life was known as one who 
was not afraid, and who spoke the truth.
What protects him? Why should he be immune? 
Did Hobsons heroic act save him? And Dewey!  
did all the years of devotion to his flag and service 
count with the reporter who first started the lie 
which an increased circulation made it profitable to 
exploit and magnify? What protection, I repeat, has 
any man against the nozzles of these squirts?
And yet we live under the Stars and Stripes, em
blem of the greatest country on earth; a land whose 
proudest boast is of equal rights and freedom, and 
whose written law guarantees to every man a square 
deal.
What then is the remedy? It lies with ourselves; 
with you and with me and with every man who has 
a Ten Commandment Conscience. Thou shalt not 
bear false witness against thy neighborThat is: 
Thou shalt not steal his good name; Thou shalt not 
murder his career nor brand him as a criminal or a 
fool. Glorify the good; recognize it, magnify it, en
courage it. When some one of our fellowmen lifts 
his head above the crust, either in politics, govern
ment, art, literature or sciencesay so out loud 
so loud that everybody can hear. Only then will we 
get back to that last and other commandment which 
includes the other ten: Love thy brother as thyself; 
or, as Theodore Roosevelt puts it: Give every man 
a square deal. 
After this the cheering was loud and enthusiastic. 
Every one had sat almost breathless through the 
whole address and the applause was spontaneous. 
In a minute or two Mr. Smith rose again and said, 
This subject has taken hold of me lately. I have 
spoken recently almost these same words at Har
vard, Yale, Waterbury, Conn., and Philadelphia. It 
is only decencycommon, plain decency. Dont 
jump on the man that is'abused.
f1kfRd2ka G.d 3Cw2fCvaJ c.m2B SPTLP HS E,,NPL HDL ,NUUL,, Sl HDL F5 3CDY,HsLJ 
DEBT YB SNP ,Nb,UPYtHYSB, c.m---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
omo
| APPLIED DESIGN |
cec&oecesaci ,*oc^00cy3mceo*33^
Carnegie Tech starred prominently, as usual, in 
the mentions given by the Society of Beaux Arts Ar
chitects of New York. In the judgment of February 
24, the following received mentions in Class B plan: 
Smart, Gilkison, Lament, Bernardi, Decker, Burk
hart, Ihsen, Mitchell, Israel, Weaver, Wentworth, 
Hincley, Critchlow, Shaffer. In the Class B order, 
Knox, Donance, Rose, Braun, Hasness, Jacobs, Jones, 
Griffith, Gehron, Gray (placed), Reeves, James, McCrory, Scheuneman, Stockwell, Seidner, Hatcher, 
Mewhinney. Sixteen schools and ateliers were rep
resented in the awards. Carnegie Tech had by far 
the largest percentage of winners in both classes.
Did you ever take a long look at the Welcome 
sign on a door mat, and after feeling somewhat en
couraged, have-your last suspicion removed by see
ing the cheerful Come In in large letters over the 
entrance? It gives a fellow a certain sense of feel
ing what a privilege it is to be alive. While you are 
waiting for the boss to appear, and between the mo
ments when you are trying to think up something 
to say that will be appropriate to your close ac
quaintanceship (formed on the deceitful signs with
out), your chest puffs out as thoughts of me and 
the boss flit through your mind. It is then a dis
tinct honor and privilege to be among the list of 
American citizens; members of a glorious and un
precedented country wherein you are able to meet 
the great men controlling the large interests of the 
land, simply on account of being a member of that 
great association, the American public.
When the magnate finally appears with his retinue 
of secretaries and clerks, and gives you a brace-andbit stare with his fishy eyes shielded by huge round 
glasses, most of your pipe dream makes a hasty 
exit up stage, rear center, and you follow in a few 
moments. They say that time puts events in their 
true perspective in our minds, and that may be very 
true, but a much quicker method is that of going 
through such an interview as wehave described, 
and then being requested to return to the railway 
station below where you rightly belong. Its much 
the same feeling as going out of your way to pet 
a diminutive and unclaimed yellow canine, and have 
the beast turn around and bite you, because you 
scratched his back instead of his left ear.
Such has been the lot of great numbers of Archi
tects when they have honored the Decorators with 
a friendly call. Revise the sign, somebody; it 
should read, Welcome, but admire from a distance 
only.
Twenty-four designs were submitted for a prob
lem in illustration of a given verse, of which fourteen 
received mentions by the jury, consisting of Messrs.
McGoodwin, Ferrand, Hewlett and Campbell.
Those receiving mentions were (in order of merit): 
Mr. Lustig,
Mr. Byrne,
Mr. Hollingsworth,
Miss Miller,
Miss Watson,
Mr. Wilson,
Mr. Kilroy,
Mr. Moss,
Mr. Keally,
Miss Williams,
Mr. Hoffman,
Mr. Withers,
Miss Shuman.
Dolly Hasness was not overjoyed when he found 
a burlesque Rostral Column drawn on his perspec
tive.
A poster for the White Friars announcements was 
made by the combined efforts of Reeves, Fleming, 
and Nicols, and has attracted considerable atten' tion in its prominent place on the general student 
bulletin board.
Ask Joey Eisen why he got off his stool in such 
a hurry, Friday morning.
The competition for the cover of the Schools cata
logue which was judged Tuesday, February 23, by a 
jury, consisting of the Director, Mr. McGoodwin, Mr. 
Field, Mr. Ferrand, and Mr. Hewlett, resulted in the 
award of first prize to Miss Ethel Hamilton and 
second to Miss Sue Watson. Three other designs 
were specially mentioned,those of Miss L. Miller, 
Mr. Nies and Mr. Wilson.
This competition was considered as one of the 
regular problems in the course in Decoration and 
those receiving one of the usual mentions were: 
Mrs. Emmert,
Mr. Hodgdon,
Mr. Hoffman,
Mr. Keally,
Miss Sterling,
Miss Williams,
Miss Uhrb'om,
Mr. Withers.
Mr. Lightner (in English) to J. B. HaysCorrect 
the following sentence: The remains of a man
killed forty years ago were found in Central Park, 
while plowing the earth. 
HaysThe man wasnt plowing, he was dead.
The existence of a new fraternity called The 
Consolidated Order of Lizzy Boys, has been discov
ered. Up to date, it has but one member.
Last Friday afternoon, Prof. Ferrand gave a crit 
on the Order and Plan problems that had been re
turned that morning from judgment in the Society of 
Beaux Arts Architects, New York.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
M. M. C. S.
v2ZZ2af damidnLizzie idled along the dusty road, kicking up the 
dust with her bare toes and longing for the ice 
wagon to drive past, so she could jump on the back 
of it and take some ice.
She walked as slowly as she could, for she was in 
no hurry to go home again and amuse the baby.
Suddenly her sun-bonnet was pushed awry, and 
she looked up to see old Miss Bristol, who was al
ways in a hurry, hustle past. Lizzie straightened 
her sun-bonnet, and the next moment her eye caught 
the glitter of a shining object in the dust. It was a 
bright, new quarter, and Lizzies eyes sparkled as she 
wiped the dust from it, while visions of the baker 
shop and the candy store flashed through her mind.
Oh, how rich she felt, as she clasped the coin 
tightly in her hand and wondered if she could buy 
the pretty doll in the toy-store, too! All at once she 
stopped, short in the road, with a new and startling 
thought in her head. Where had this money come 
from? She had noticed it only after old Miss Bristol 
passed by. The money must belong to her!
Lizzie gazed helplessly at the quarter, and then at 
the scurrying figure ahead of her, and then all her 
air-castles vanished as she realized that she had 
Miss Bristols money in her hand. She could not 
keep it, for that would be stealing.
Miss Bristol! Oh, Miss Bristol! you dropped 
some money! shrilled Lizzie, running after th old 
lady as fast as she could run without her shoes. 
But Miss Bristol was rather deaf, so she kept on till 
she reached her large house, and then went in with
out having heard Lizzies shouts.
Lizzie decided to go and ring the door-bell and re
store the lost money. Miss Bristol, herself, came to 
the door and listened in astonishment to Lizzies 
story.
You may keep the quarter for yourself, my dear; 
you have earned it by your honesty, she said.
Tnen, seeing how tired and breathless Lizzie was, 
Arent you hungry, little girl? Come in, and I will 
give you a bite of something. She took Lizzie in 
the house and set before her the most delicious lunch 
the child had ever seen.
Lizzie thought it was wonderful, and after bash
fully thanking the old lady, she started for home to 
tell of her wonderful adventure.
L. J., 11.
On Friday afternoon, February 26, the Juniors 
won from the Seniors in basket-ball on the gym 
floor, 3623. The Seniors scored six points before 
the Juniors could shoot a goal, but after that 10 
came to, and the game became more interesting. At 
the end of the first half, the score stood 1813 in 
favor of the Juniors.
In the second half, the Juniors continued their ad
mirable work and left the Seniors far behind in the 
race.
We notice a vast difference in the games of last 
year and this. The team work is much more im
proved, and the playing, as a whole, much more ex
citing. Line-up:
Juniors36.Seniors23.
Madeline Evans.............. .F..........
Josephine Mandeville... .F..........
Fontana McCullam. .. .. .C............
Olive Freese....................S. C........
Frances Rayburn......... .G.............
Natalie Frieman............
In the second half,FlorenceGuinn was substituted for Alvina Shoen.
i nYsLhhEOne night last week a certain Mr. X called at 
Morrison Hall to escort Miss Susie Y to the thea
ter. It happened to be Miss Fishers evening at 
home, and, although sounds of gayety within were 
distinctly audible, the door-bell brought no response. 
Patiently the young man waited, pushing the bell 
button at frequent intervals. The situation was 
becoming painful. Then came a happy thought 
the old-fashioned knocker! But just as he was about 
to grasp it the door flew open as if by magic, a flood 
of light and confused noises streamed out and there 
stood a fair maiden with polite inquiry written on 
her face. Mercy! what ailed him?
He opened his mouth, but his tongue was dumb 
He tried to speak, but no words would come 
His facial expression was somewhat glum, and 
consternation reigned in his breast. He blushed 
rose red and finally said, Is MisserahMiss 
ahbut it was no usehe USNsT BSH remember her 
name! With a desperate effort he managed to re
call her first name,Miss Susie. Reasoning from 
the facts that there was one young lady in the dor
mitory who bore that name, and that this particular 
young lady was at that moment upstairs struggling 
with curling tongs and collar pins, the maiden at the 
door concluded that the youth was trying to inquire 
for Miss Y. Laughingly she admitted him, sup
plied him with the young ladys proper name, and 
promised never to tell of the predicament so long as 
they two should live!
P. S.The youths name does not begin with X, 
and the maidens name is not Susie.
Dr. MartinAre you all fully satisfied that the 
heart alone does not supply the whole body with 
blood? '
Miss FarrelYes.
Miss BihlmanNo, it don't.
There was a basket-ball game Friday afternoon, 
March 5th, between the Juniors and Gleim girls. 
The score was 35 to 13 in favor of the Juniors. The

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN7
playing was very good on both sides, and the game 
was interesting throughout.
Miss Ihmsen as general chairman has named the 
following committee on Senior Week:
Miss Frances Harman, active chairman.
Miss Shuman,
Miss Daugherty,
Miss Ramlack, 
Miss Alcorn.
G2dfC Xaid 2cn1fCd2ivfWe are indeed quite happy to know that the Sec
ond Year Industrial banquet at the Monongahela 
House last Thursday evening proved to be a decided 
success, as also did the First Year Industrials at 
the Colonial Annex on the Thursday previous.
Both of them were of that inexpressible good fel
lowship order, which makes all for one and one for 
the bunch. An unique feature about the First Year 
Banquet, however, was the fact that the invited 
guests, faculty, other classmen, etc., were invited in 
every sense of the word, which did not hold good in 
various other cases.
There is of course a friendly rivalry between the 
First and Second Year men in the Industrial classes. 
Not of the fight for superiority kind, but more ot 
the all together order, which, while it permits of 
one to outshine the other, lends a helping hand at the 
same time to the man behind.
Of course, everybody of sound judgment looks upon 
the write-up in last weeks Tartan of the First Year 
Industrial banquet, in just the way it was meant. It 
was quite obvious that in a sense of humor, one of 
the upper classmen got hold of the news in the Tar
tan box and turned things topsy turvy. Rather a 
weak attempt at humor, but we feel quite tickled, in
asmuch as it only emphasized the fact that the 
tenderfoot feed was also an unquestionable success.
In accordance with several other very original 
things that the First Year Industrials have done 
this year, we wish to state that we established, or at 
least tried to, a new idea so far as banquets were 
concerned.
We were very sorry indeed, that the combined 
efforts of the Second Year men, with the Pre
paratory Class, proved woefully fruitless, in so far 
as annexing the President or any other class officer 
of the First Year Industrials, was concerned.
Although we knew that the Second Year men 
were to hold their soiree at the Monongahela 
House last Thursday night, we wish to assure them 
that in no way, shape or manner, did we try to in
terfere with or hinder the success of their affair. 
On the contrary we wished it to even beat ours. In
asmuch as banquets are a great stimulant to class 
spirit, and on the whole, greatly help the general 
success of the Schools, we believe it the better plan 
to do all in our power to push matters along, instead 
of giving them the proverbial black-eye.
Would it not ka the better plan then, to do as has 
been done, on several previous occasions, i. e., to 
steal the president of the class not concerned and 
bring him along, thus giving the party a boost instead 
of trying to break it up?
We believe the Carnegie Technical Schools to be 
an institution of learning, second to none of its kind 
in the world; and aside from the fact that we wish 
to broaden our circle of acquaintances and friends, 
which all will help us greatly in later years; we 
wish to state that we are here to learnI repeat it, 
(to learn.
miCC Rv1kAt a meeting recently held by the Night Electric 
Wiring classes, an organization, to be known as the 
Watt Club, was formed for educational and social 
purposes.
Plans are being made by the members to visit the 
different factories, supply houses and other inter
esting places that will aid in the study of Electric 
Wiring.
The Social Committee are preparing for a large 
event in the near future.
The following officers and committees were chosen:
CollinsPresident.
RobisonVice President.
CarsonSecretary.
HamiltonTreasurer.
Wolf, HarlowRepresentatives to Tartan. 
LehmanChairman.
Social CommitteeFloyd, Chairman.
Lehman,
Goodwin,
Mechling,
Walters,
Warlow.
RifC Cd2iv wavn fiC1dniXThe second and last trial for the cast of the White 
Friars  was held in the Assembly Hall last Saturday 
afternoon. Many more men were out then on the 
previous occasion, and all were given a chance at 
reading the first part of the first act of the new play, 
His Highness, the Chef. What will probably be the 
last of the trials will be held Thursday night at 7.30 
in the same place. The men out Saturday were: 
Hays, Mitchell, Keely, Silvernail, Tish, Goettman, 
Hodgton, Hoffman, Beringer, Bell, Steen, Porter, 
Sprague, Horton, James, Gray, Nicols, Borschneck, 
Lamoree, Butler, Chambers.
The first performance will be given in the High 
School Auditorium, Sewickley, on Saturday, May 8. 
Arrangements are well under way. It will be a bene
fit performance, which fact alone, insures a large and 
fashionable audience. The large list of patronesses 
will be announced in a short time.

---------------------------------------------------

8THETA RTAN
THE TARTAN
0NbsY,DLT mLLes nNPYBA HDL fUDSSs XLEP b fHN
TLBH, Sl REPBLAYL CLUDBYUEs fUDSSs,& 0YHH,bNPA& 0EEntered at the Pittsburgh post office as second class matter
F. I. Gaston, 09Editor-in-Chief 
Lowell W. Nicols, 10Associate Editor 
J. H. Taxis, 10, NightAssociate Editor 
Bess E. Sheets, M. M. C. S.Associate Editor 
H. J. McCorkle, 11Business Manager
fNb,UPYtHYSB dEHL,
Yearly ............................................................. $2.00
Single Copy ................................................10 Cents
For Advertising Rates, address the Business Manager, care Carnegie Technical Schools.
Mr. Leeds resignation is in and it is up to some 
of us to get busy and take up the work where he 
has left off. He seems to feel that he has failed, 
but no one who has watched events believes that any 
one could have done better.
According to his statement we will be left at the 
conclusions of his labors with a field graded and 
surfaced at least after a fashion, but no fence to sur
round it and no grandstand from which the games 
may be watched. Unless we intend to emulate the 
notoriously successful experiment we made in hold
ing free games we will have to continue our work a 
little farther.
Heretofore there has been a great deal of apathy 
as most every one has felt that somehow a way would 
be provided by some one, but to most of us it is ap
parent that state of affairs has about ended and the 
students are certainly now face to face with the 
unfinished field with the positive assurance that no 
one but themselves can or will do anything to save 
the situation. The classes that allow themselves 
to be run by those obstuctionists who simply vote 
down every effort to get our affairs in shape will 
probably be the hardest kickers, although the time 
for the kicks has passed. All there is left for us to do 
is to cut out that foolishness and get busy!
Professor and Mrs. Doyle have the sincere sym
pathy of the entire school as well as The Tartan 
in the recent loss of their infant son.
Now that the School of Applied Science has been 
given their smoking room in the new Applied Science 
Building, and the faculty have done all they promised, 
it is up to the men to provide further comforts in the
way of furniture and furnishings. To start the ball 
rolling in the right direction, the Senior class have 
very recently decided to make a substantial gift to 
the room. The room is in the control of committees 
from the different classes, who meet and act as a 
whole on any problem that may arise in this con
nection. The two smaller rooms to the right and 
left of the entrance are also for the use of the stu
dents, and are convenient for business meetings and 
the like. When the Student Senate or the Self-Gov
erning Body of the School is started, no better place 
then here could be found in which to meet. Now 
that the Seniors have set the pace, let some one else 
keep up to it for a while.
ic 2I0d.VaIacC 2c Cwa 0iCCadcfw.0-
Mr. Pfouts, of the Pattern-shop, has recently had 
added to his department an improvement to one of 
the machines that renders it not a great deal less 
noisy, but also reduces the danger of accident to a 
minimum. The improvement consists of a cylindri
cal knife carrier instead of the old square type in the 
hand jointer. The new arrangement does not leave 
room for an entire hand to be caught in the machine 
as formerly. The worst that could happen would 
be the removal of a nail or finger tip. The device 
is the patent of the Osbourne Machinery Co.
kifakivvThe base-ball coach, Mr. Guy, has issued his call 
for candidates, and all wishing to try for position on 
the team should see him not later than tomorrow as 
he has set that as the ultimate limit of reporting 
time. All positions are still open, so let no one re
main away on that account. The season opens in one 
more short month with a trip away from home so 
the time is limited. In order then to get in condition 
it is imperative that every base-ball man get out 
immediately and make those already out hustle for 
their jobs.
Rwica 2c da2fCdidf .GG2RaMarch 1st, 1909.
From this date on, all students in the School of 
Applied Science will get their grades, hand in ex
planations of their absences and secure advice as to 
courses at Dean Leetes office, Room 100, new Sci
ence Building; students in the School for Apprentices 
and Journeymen will get their information at Dean 
Connelleys office, Room 111; and students in the 
School of Applied Design at Dean McGoodwins of
fice, Room 122.

---------------------------------------------------

THETA RTAN
1fD ANCINGi 5NB.GK5 NGi 1EL51 OATMNGP
&2HUT &P &2UE& H&T 3E&2PDT l,T& E -H&&-U NU&&U2 &OED EDJ P&OU2 NEDf 
CAPITAL $200,000.00 SURPLUS $126,000.00
OFFICERS :
JAS. J. FLANNERY, - - - PresidentJAMES J. BOOTH, ... vice President 
JOHN G. PEW, - - 2nd V. Pres, and Sec.C. B. AY^ESWORTH, .... Treasurer
i00dacC2Raf icn M.1dcaXIaccYADH ILB& CEeL cSHYULFellow students:I have something to tell you, 
something I believe that will start the school spirit 
tingling through the veins of every loyal student. 
We, the official Thistle Board, have made all ar
rangements to have the different class pictures taken, 
which, by the way, is gratis unless you wish to pur
chase a separate picture. So be ready, boys, and look 
pleasant when the announcement is made that your 
turn has come.
You know that all great and good things move at 
their start as a phantom, and that the gigantic pro
portions are not realized until it bursts in its splen
dor. This I believe to be the case with the move
ment of this years Thistle. We have barked about 
equal representation until we have harpooned and 
launched this our opportunity at the most opportune 
time.
Now all friction has been removed, peace and har
mony rule supreme. We are just as good as the best, 
no more, the Thistle this year and all years hence, 
until the cessation of time shall be an all school book, 
with equal rights to all, the honors to be distributed 
alternately along the different schools of this famous 
Carnegie group.
Now, in 1911, the editor-in-chief shall be chosen 
from our school, so it behooves us to be prepared to 
do this honorable position justice. Begin now, all
who may have a brilliant flash of thought, please 
preserve same in writing, and hand it to me, your 
humble servant; these flashes shall be concentrated 
in one large and beautiful flash which we shall use 
to illuminate the pages of history.
Think, gentlemen, how our prosterity upon looking 
through this old and cherished book shall be inspired 
and go forth with renewed energy, having read our 
works and looked upon their ancestors faces. It is 
then that we shall turn over in our graves, having 
done our duty, and peacefully await the decision of 
the Great Judge.
And now, last but not least, do not forget to seek 
me out from among the multitudes that serge to and 
fro over the threshold of our beloved institution, and 
present me with a half-dollar as a part payment on 
your subscription to the Thistle, which is one dollar 
and fifty cents, and I shall give you a very neat and 
attractive receipt for this courtesy.
Also, remember that there will be no Thistles pub
lished except those subscribed for, and that sub
scriptions close March 27, 1909, in order that the 
book may be delivered before school closes in April.
GPEBe MEhY,SBf1kfRd2ka G.d 3Cw2fCvaJ c.m2B SPTLP HS E,,NPL HDL ,NUUL,, Sl HDL F5 3CDY,HsLJ 
DEBT YB UNP ,Nb,UPYtHYSB, c.mR.1dC nadkX
CaRwc a2 a
Proper headwear for all occasions, 
Silk and Opera, Derbies, soft hats and 
caps. The best kinds of both foreign 
and domestic manufacture. Write for 
our style book.
CaRwI.cC
tto Getting
GYlHD EBT msYL fLOLBHD EBT fhYHDlYLsT j*

---------------------------------------------------

2.THE TARTAN
PLUDEBUEHL & SON, tLBB EBT lPEBe,HSoB EOL,-& LLafCikv2fwan 2c F867
 OUR SHOES ARE ALL LEATHER  MADE BY THE MOST FAMOUS MANUFACTURERS BOTH EAST AND WEST 
$655& $5-55& $5-55& $4-55& $y-55& $y-55
E,e HS ,LL SNP fmavv fw.n fw.af EH f4-55 HDL tEYP
--------SEE OUR FOUR SHOW WINDOWS--------
PERTINENT
AND
IMPERTINENT
The French Club of the University of Cincinnati 
will present the French play, La Souris, by Pailleron, at an early date. The German Club of the 
same University will give two plays in German on 
March 17: "Als Verlobt Befehlen Sich, and Eng
lish.
Boston Tech, Virginia, and Bowdin were admitted 
to the Inter-collegiate Association of Amateur Ath
letes of America, at its 34th annual convention in 
New York.
We have learned that Prof. Hornbostle gave two 
lectures at the University of Pittsburg on BeauxArts of Paris, and Bridges. Base traitor to the 
cause.
The University of Chicago announce a Salome 
dance to be given by one of their freshmen at a fra
ternity smoker. If it came down to it, we could find 
some one here who could fill the bill all right.
Boston Tech has selected the poster to be used 
for their show, The Pill Grimm.
Columbia University put their show, In Newport, 
on the stage this week. Mr. Arthur Pryor is attend
ing to the orchestration of the music.
Prof. WilletIn England you might take out an 
insurance policy on Brights life, without examining 
him to see whether he had tuberculosis, heart dis
ease, or
SpeerBrights disease.
Witte and Bascom drew no cards this month.
HortonWhat is the difference between Phi and 
Si?
Roura is taking poetry in connection with Cal
culus.
In the Milliners Convention at Chicago a prize for 
the best hat design went to a Civil Engineer. The 
Civil Department will no doubt take notice and add 
a course in hat design.
JohnsonIs that roof a % pitch?
GlasserNo! It is all tar.
ft
Mr. Denton has a very plausible solution to the 
problem of Perpetual Motion. But the Soph Elec
tricals can go him one better: Goettmans stream of 
questions seems more nearly perpetual than any
thing else we have seen or heard.
Speer has been studying the curve known as the 
witch of Agnesi. The other day he discovered an 
interesting modification, which he named the Sa
lome.
Waxman (who pulled an F)If I had only had 
ten minutes more I could have made a hundred.
Rd1R2kva Rv1kOn Saturday evening the Crucible Club met in the 
Physics Lecture Room of the Science Building, and 
witnessed a very interesting series of demonstra
tions involving high tension electric discharges. Mr. 
Hower, assisted by Mr. Jeffrey, operated many new 
pieces of apparatus which had not been previously 
exhibited. By use of a large induction coil and auto
matic interrupter, an induced current of high poten
tial was developed from a 110 volt direct current. 
By means of this secondary current, a system of 
Leyden jars, and proper conductors, beautiful 
brusn discharges were produced. The secondary 
current of the induction coil was passed through a 
second induction coil as the primary, thus producing 
a second induced current of extremely high potential. 
This was utilized in demonstrating the phenomenon 
of resonance in Leyden jar circuits. In connection 
with this the transmission, reflection, and effects of 
Hertzs waves were shown and the principles of 
wireless telegraphy were touched upon.
A second series of demonstrations involved the 
passage of electricity through rarified gases. By 
means of various tubes some of the properties of 
cathode rays were shown, for example, the me
chanical effects and the behavior when under the 
influence of a magnet. Beautiful examples of fluores
cence and phosphorescence were produced. Finally 
the X-ray tube was attached, all manner of objects 
were subjected to the influence of the Rntgen rays 
and many interesting properties of the ray were 
noted.
In connection with each phenomenon Mr. Hower 
gave careful explanations and clearly answered the 
many questions asked by members of the club.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
V g
 NINETEEN-TWELVE I
c2caCaac CmavVaWe would like to print a list of the men who did 
not accept the kind invitation of the class of 1910, 
M. M. C. S., to the dance last Tuesday evening, but 
space forbids. Some hall a dozen have offered a 
valid excuse for their absence.
However, the select few who were glad to show 
their appreciation of the hospitality of our co-eds, 
were entertained in a manner long to be remem
bered. Even those who, like the writer, are not 
versed in Terpsichorean arts, were not permitted to 
adorn the wall-paper.
As a sample of the treatment accorded these un
fortunates, permit us to cite our own experience.
After explaining his plight to the mistress of cere
monies, the correspondent was introduced to two 
maidens of generous proportions, both of body and 
mind, who found it no hardship to lend an appreci
ative ear to his remarks in intervals between danc
ing, drinking lemonade, and eating lady-fingers. For 
the benefit of the absent ones we will state that it 
was mostly intervals.
Everyone was having a good time when the famil
iar winking of the lights cut short the gayeties 
with several dances still on the list.
After the usual tribute to the Pittsburg Railways 
Co., the affair was a thing of the past, but not soon 
to be forgotten.
It is said that Cole re-enacted his part of Grandma 
Liebendorfer in The Automatic Statue so nat^ 
urally Tuesday evening that Stewart ups and asks 
him for a dance.
Carpenter was the hero of the evening. Not con
tent with putting in his appearance, he exerted him
self to the extent of spraining his left knee to aid 
the noble cause. Kline finally revived him with lem
onade, whereupon he ducked out.
About two years ago the correspondent resigned 
his position in the Meter Testing Department of the 
Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Co.
Beforg he left it was his duty to instruct his suc
cessor in the duties of his office. So one fine morn
ing Mr. Boss came around with a tall, pale individual, 
who looked just out of a hospital^, and said, This is 
Mr. Carpenter, who will take up your work. Show 
him how to do things.
Well, Carpenter proved a very bright chap, and 
in two days the correspondent left him in charge. 
A year later, the correspondent stood in line before 
the desk in Room 104, awaiting his interview. 
Just before him was a tall, pale individual, who gave 
his name as Mack B. Carpenter, habitat, Wilkinsburg,' etc., etc.
^e'Best Store
THE BRIGHT SPOT 
Corner Forbes and Atwood Sts.
lH I.da Cwic F55 fCXvaf cam f0d2c fw2dCf
2 $1.00 $1.50 $2.00 *0 3RsNLHH&J 3CLUDJ EBT 3ISBEPUDJ kPEBT, 4*
X Better styles, Better selections. Better shirts, in every way "3& than ever before. i
<z>*c*0*0*w0*0*0*c*0*0*':>*0'fr>*<>*<>*'>*0*
N D TURNED i
O L L A R S |8  I0
0*0
c
U STEVENSON AND FORBES STREETS 
H Bell Phone 2943 Grant P. & A. Phone 148 Main
o.*ov>*o\ov>\ov:>v>v:>\ov^vov>\ovov}\o
BRACE BROS.
LAUNDERERS
DYERS, CLEANERS
Pittsburg, Pa.
Both Phones Wilkins 23

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
Well, mutual recognition followed, and each learn
ed with pleasure that the other had prospered during 
the year. Luckily both passed the examinations, 
and so it is that he is now vice president of our 
class, and we are writing about it.
Mack hails from Williamsport, Pa. He spent a 
year at the Bliss School, when he came to the con
clusion that, in order to obtain a good position, he 
must have experience. This conclusion resulted in 
the incidents hereinbefore related.
However, meter testing on a commercial scale is 
a cold-blooded proposition, and it soon seemed unin
teresting to the young engineer; so he entered the 
engineering apprenticeship course, which he has 
now nearly completed.
He aims to become an expert on transportation 
by electricity. In his opinion this branch of Elec
trical Engineering has a great future. He believes 
that in a decade or two electricity will supplant 
steam as a motive power on all the great railway 
systems of the country.
In our opinion there are only two drawbacks to 
Macks ultimate success, and they are his retiring 
modesty and possibly a lack of good health. As a 
remedy for the former we would suggest an ambi
tious wife.
But let us leave this matter to Dan Cupid and 
content ourselves with wishing Mack the best of 
luck and more of it. Selah!
12
Idvaanf daf2cf Cd aif1 dadfw2 0-
March 8th, 1909.
Dr. A. A. Hamerschlag, Director:
Dear Sir:I herewith submit a report of the re
sults of the plan, proposed by me December 1st, to 
prepare an athletic field.
When the plan was proposed to the student body 
it was received with every evidence of enthusiasm, 
and the sum of about $5,000 was pledged over sig
natures and about $3,000 was pledged verbally.
In announcing the plan, I asked for the sum of 
$10,000, dividing the expense of preparing the field 
as follows:
For filling ravine..........................................$3,000
Cutting hills and surfacing....................... 2,000
Erecting stands ........................................... 2,000
Fencing ........................................................... 1,000
To meet our obligation to Dr. Laeock.. 2,000
We have made two contracts with the firm of 
Booth & Flinn. One, for filling the ravine, which
has been completed, has cost $3,447.50 and is payable 
February 1st, 1910, with 6% interest added. The 
other contract is for cutting the hills and surfacing, 
and has cost about $1,000 to date. This contract 
is on a 12^% basis and will probably cost $1,500 or 
$1,600 before it is completed. This will leave the 
field sowed to grass.
The bills for both these contracts are payable one 
year from date of completion of work, and they are 
to bear 6% interest for the accommodation.
In regard to the promised loans, about 375 students 
have redeemed their pledges and the sum of $2,380.49 
has been paid into the treasury. (This includes 
$32.85 from the 1912 SmokerJ
In addition, about 90 students have promised to 
loan the unused portion of their breakage deposits 
which may be about $200, but as this money is not 
available until next June, it cannot be considered at 
present.
The balance of the money pledged over signatures, 
but BSH tEYT into the treasury, amounts to the sum 
of $2,739.00, as nearly as it can be estimated.
As we have insufficient funds to complete the 
field, we propose to meet the Associations note of 
$2,000 (to the Oakland Savings and Trust Co., due 
March 23d) from money paid in.
The money from the bank was borrowed to meet 
our obligation to Dr. Lacock, which was due him on 
December 23d, 1908.
As the students have not as yet created a respon
sible organization, I beg to refer the following to 
you for action:
I should like to look after the completion of Booth
& Flinns contract and to finish seeding the field in 
grass, after which I beg to be relieved of further re
sponsibilities in connection with athletics.
I feel that I have not been successful in financing 
the Athletic Association, and I find that the duties 
of the treasurership interfere with my real work in 
the Schools in the Department of Drawing.
I will esteem it a favor if a student committee be 
appointed to audit my accounts and to make a re
port to you and to the student body.
I would like to have a copy of this letter pub
lished in the Tartan for the benefit of the students.
Very respectfully,
RDEPsL, RvLLT,-
f1kfRd2ka G.d 3Cw2fCvaJ c.m2B SPTLP HS E,,NPL HDL ,NUUL,, Sl HDL F5 3CDY,HsLJ 
DEBT YB SNP ,Nb,UPYtHYSB, c.mIf you wish a subscription to any engineering pub= 
lication it can be gotten through  The 
Tartan  at student rates.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANCC
| NINETEEN THIRTEEN g
More of the fellows are dropping out of school, 
with the finish so near, and in this connection we 
would recall a recent scene in Diamond street. The 
writer was passing, and observed a mighty peculiar 
motor car standing by a garage. It was covered with 
mud, and had a paddys shovel tied to it, and there 
wasnt enough paint on it to cover a dollar, but there 
was a crowd around it ten deep. It was the Thomas 
car and won the race to Paris. (P.) Nearby stood 
another motor, a very pretty, polite affair with lots 
of red paint and nickel plating, but no one paid any 
attention to it at all. And the inference is perfectly 
obvious. The car surrounded by the crowd wasnt 
much to look at, but it was the car that had overcome 
the obstaclesthat had gone where it was impossible 
for a car to goburied in snow, over the wheels 
in mud, driving through rivers, everlastingly run
ning, plunging, staggering on in one directionFOR
WARD. The pretty car with the brass trimmings 
was entirely forgotten, and the lesson for us is too 
plain to need explanation. The car or the man that 
we need is the one that can do things. Let us think 
then of examples like this, or of the exhausted run
ner, who, with his opponent pressing him hard, faint
ed at the finish but broke the wire as he fell; and 
like him, if we are to fall, let us fall Forward.
mw2Ca Gd2idf 0.fCad$F5-55 .llLPLTAs announced last week, the Committee on Pro
duction of the Whit Friars declare a competition 
for the design of a poster that may be used for any 
show. It shall contain the words White Friars of 
Carnegie Tech, and shall have no other wording, 
or mortices, or spaces left for the insertion of type, 
other than the name or initials of the designer. The 
name of the play together with the other data con
cerning it will be added to the bottom on a separate 
printed strip. The three color process will be used 
in reproduction, so that red, yellow and blue or any 
combination of these may be used. The colors are 
NOT to be applied exclusively in flat washes. The 
drawings are to be handed to Oscar Bieler, Secretary 
of the White Friars, not later than April 2. A 
jury to pass on the drawings will be announced later.
The feature of the C. A. A. track meet in Bartlett 
gymnasium last nightwhich was won by Chicagos 
team by a score of 48 to 38, was the breaking of the 
worlds indoor pole vault record by Claire S. Jacobs, 
with a vault of 12 feet 3 inches. After winning the 
vault, Jacobs then tried after the former worlds 
record of 11 feet 8, 3-8 in., which was held by him
self.The Daily Maroon.
. 2 Eh HDL SBs TP UsLEBLP YB .EesEBT HDEH 
. TSL, DY, SoB oSPe2 ANEPEBHLL SN ,EHY,lEU 
I HYSBfLL fw1Iic EH yFF GSPbL, fHPLLHr wY, UN,HShLP, EPL tsLE,LT2 SC HEN LEY FARMS %
O G2GCw iVakavvaG2avn iVa*
* G2ca daf2nacRa 0d.0adCX
$ For prices and terms apply*
d..I F4FF GidIadf kicK k12vn2c**XC^XC^X^XC^XS*XC^XO*XC^X3*X3*XC**Xft 
W mavv 0daffan 2f mavv ndaffanI ---- I'i Liberty Cleaning & Pressing Co. |
y5F fSNHD RPEYA fHPLLH
G.d aX0adCfac2caadf& idRw2CaRCf& 
ndi1wCfIac  aX0adCf .d fC1nacCf
Should get acquainted with the resources of supply 
for all Drawing and Artists Materials offered 
by this houseKurtz, Langbein & Swartz
656 mSUT fH-& 6HD iOLa H >?n A ?. A A Jfa A A n Jtm H A *** ^..gp.*y,p*,g,;gpg,*ptwp*,*pgpgc-*i % ISBSAPEh fUDSSs fHEHYSBLP& ASsT SP YB EB ^
8 #
Y* USsSP& UEB bL DET lPSh IYHUDLss& fStDIYBYBA& ^
$ Hg SP MSDB,SB& fStDasLUHPYUEs& lSP 55U tLP 6NYPL4* Q *
ovoxoxoxv>\oxo\o\o\o\ov:>v>v>vov>\o*
. 0w2vv20f & Iicc2c .
T fCiC2.cadf
^ MAGAZINES POST CARDS $
y75p GSPbL, fHPLLH ^ CIGARS TOBACCO 
  xovoxo%oxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxo\oxo\oxo\o\o 
OXOVOVOXONOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOX
I R. W. MEDICK I0
A Rw.2Ra w.Ia ndaffan 
0.1vCdX
IaiCf icn
y854 GSPbL, fHPLLHX Both Phones XOXOX^XOXOXOXOVOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXO
STUDENT LAUNDRY AGENCY
Leslie Kime, Man,g^-
---------All work guaranteed---------

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TA RTAN
CaRw k.Xf CiKa c.C2Ra! 
c2GCX waiVX Cic fw.af $4-55 icn $5-55
65p7 0LBB STOEBENERS
IPPP -LUDEBH&SD EAST END
I PLEBE CLASS
Bill Hittner got his hair trimmed last week.
Gov. Stone, S. E., has resigned his position as 
Chief Stereopticon Engineer of the Schools.
Bradley, of Section E, disturbed the equilibrium 
of Section C by breaking in on English recitation 
Thursday and wandering aimlessly around for several 
minutes before discovering that he was in wrong.
Mr. TaylorWhat are some of the elements found 
in iron?
BennettGeranium.
Henderson says that he believes this idea of slap
ping a friend on the back originated in the monkey 
age when we used to scratch each others back for 
flees.
Prof. Trinks said: Some professors imagine the 
capacity of a students brain to be unlimited, but 
it isnt always so. Of course we all agree with him.
Hankey (explaining to Oetting in Drawing)You 
have to have some imagination or else some ones 
drawing to see it.
Mr. HowerThe index of refraction is very great.
I see that the half dollar 1 left in the water has dis
appeared altogether.
What's the use of hiring a professional coach for 
the White Friars when Prof. Wurts is in the 
Schools? His impersonation of a man receiving an 
electrical schock was the real article.
Speil is wearing a new necktie this week.

Prof. Keller drew the representation of a man the 
other day; it consisted of one circle and five straight 
lines. It shows what a man with a little ingenuity 
can do in a pinch.
Mr. Hornbostel admitted that he also celebrated 
when a college boy.
Lives of great men should remind you,
Though their day is far behind you.
They have climbed the heights of fame.
So get busydo the same,
Heres a chance to blow your whistle: 
Write a ditty for the Thistle.
SIRES JAPAN OIL
Superior to Linseed Oil for all kinds of Painting
ON,TR AY RCoT t hY
cSPHD fYTL& 0YHH,bNPA& 0ES ..n Cw2cf C. aiC M
*
..n Cw2cf C. aiC
at the Pure Food Stores of
GEO. K. STEVENSON & CO.
Sixth Avenue 
Down Town
Higland and Center 
East End
?Before going out get a shave 
and massage at the T El C H 
BARBERS. Two chairs allvjthe time.
W. S. BROWN
523 Wood St., Pittsburg 
GUNS, CUTLERY, ATHLETIC G00D5. 
OF ALL KINDS. A COMPLETE LINE 
OF ICE AND ROLLER SKATES.
a?5*V?VVK 108 Sixth Street ( Bessemer Bldg.) Pittsburg.
ARTISTS MATERIAL
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION
B. K. ELLIOTT COMPANY
8 02RC1da GdiI2c $
V iIiC1ad naVav.02c icn 0d2cC2c  
R1C Gv.madf M
 DB. TXT. SMITH
u FF4 iHoSST fHPLLH& bLHGYlHD EBT GSPbL,r%s
Tlie Standard of Excellence
MacDonalds
REBTYL, EBT 2UL RPLEh fSTE nEYBH vNBUD 
CEbsL, lSP 2UL RPLEhGEBU kSxL,kE,eLH, 
GEOSP,& aHUp58 f2XCw fC02CCfk1d& 0i---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN15
mafCI2cfCad iIaThe basket-ball team finished its season last Sat
urday evening when it lost to Westminster on their 
home floor. The team never quit but played good 
ball all through. They seemed to miss Dolin while 
Browns shooting would have been a welcome addi
tion. The score at the end of the first half was
9 to 5 in favor of Westminster and the final score was 
almost exactly in the same ratio. The spectators 
at New Wilmington give our fellows the credit of 
putting up the hardest fight of any team seen there 
this year.
One thing this game as well as others during the 
season demonstrated that we can never expect to ex
cel until we have a gymnasium or some other suit
able place in which the team may practice. Leety 
was back in the game and made all the points cred
ited to us. Line-up:
mL,HhYB,HLPF8- CLUDDobbs ...................................F........................ Harrison
Vance ..................................F..................................Williams
Sturgeon ...........................C.................................... Casey
Houston ...............................G................................ Agnew
Everhart .............................G.................................... Leety
vaa icn Iicn.v2c Rv1kfWhen the Steubenville Flyer pulled out from 
Union Station last Thursday evening, it had on the 
rear a carload of fellows known to the outside world 
as. the Carnegie Tech Glee and Mandolin Clubs, 
but known to each other as a jolly bunch of good 
scouts. The occasion was the concert given by the 
clubs at Chester, W. Va., March 4. The fun started 
with an impromptu concert given in the station for 
the benefit of the Fairy who presides at the news
stand, and came to a climax on Friday morning 
when it was discovered that three fellows had missed 
the return train and evidently had decided to set up 
a residence in East Liverpool.
Supper was obtained and the uniforms were donned 
at East Liverpool, from which the hall was reached 
by a short trolley ride. An audience of about 300 
was present and the numbers were well received. 
The East Liverpool Tribune announced the next 
morning that ours was the most finished entertain
ment ever given in that vicinity. Techs engage
ment is in place of the concerts given by the W. & J. 
Clubs for the previous three seasons, and is a dis
tinct advance towards the day when the Musical 
Clubs of Tech will be acknowledged as the standard.
The latest car for all Glee and Mandolin Club 
members to catch on Friday night, March 12th, to 
the High School Hall, McKeesport, is (Second Ave
nue route) 4th and Market, 6.50, or (Yellow Line) 
downtown at 6.45, Craig and Forbes, at 6.33. The 
men are to be in full dress.
A Special Concert at the Conservatory of Music 
during April by the Glee and Mandolin Clubs is 
being arranged. A new program is being worked 
up and is to be followed by dancing. The concert
2 A T E K
CHOCOLATE
BILLETS
160 pieces of foil wrapped 
smooth velvety solid cho
colate to the poundGET 
A POCKET FULL
PENNSYLVANIA CHOCOLATE CO., PITTSBORGH
KEENAN BUILDING, 7TH AND LIBERTY AVE.
Worlds most beautiful studio. Prices moderate.
For the real TECH" Penants of Carnegie Plaid
See
* * * * * * * * * 4*
BeekenTech" Pillows
admission will be fifty cents, while invitations to the 
dance can be obtained only through members of the 
Glee and Mandolin Clubs. It is probable that this 
function will become one of the annual Ess,UDSSs, 
social events at Tech, supplementing the Big Annual 
Concert for outsiders. Work is well under way on 
some exceptionally good numbers.
fac2.d Rviff R.II2CCaafThe President of the Senior Class has announced 
the following committees:
Senior BallMeldrim Thomson, chairman; L. E. 
Exline, F. I. Gaston, Oscar Bieler, W. C. Bates.
Senior BanquetBenjamin Watrous, chairman; D. 
W. Patterson, J. B. Sprague, J. H. Smith, W. C. Chan
cellor.
Class DayG. W. Ketter, chairman; R.' S. Dorn
berger, S. L. Potts.
At the last meeting the Senior Class voted an 
appropriation of $5.00 and also a small assessment 
to help decorate and otherwise make habitable, the 
smoking room.
c.C2RaAll Clubs and Fraternities desiring mention in the 
1909 Thistle must make application to R. E. Noble, 
Junior Mechanical, Editor-in-Chief, before March 10.

---------------------------------------------------

Y6THE TARTAN
C. EISNIER i
ARTISTIC FLORIST
FRESH CUT FLOWERS 
AND FLORAL DESIGNS
SPECIALTIES
B. & B
,DYPH,,UEPl,
Stripes have the callShirts (stripes) at + 
$1.50the equal of many sold at $2.00. g
Scarfs of unusual quality and handsome 4> 
color effects in stripes to match shirts at 50c j 
each. 
6105 Penn Avenue, East End
Bell Plione 83 Hilantl
+O40+O+O+O+O+O+O+O+O+O+O+O+C*0+0*0* o
BOGGS & BUHL
FloW^s
The largest stock on hand at all times 
is the one from which to select.
The prices are reasonable and con
sistent with the best quality.
A. W. SMITH
y45 f2XCw iVac1aO
02CCfk1d& 0io *0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+
X)c *2SW -w
that we print more books than any firm 
in the East End ?................................... .
Do Tou Know
that our Programs, Topic Cards and Leaflets elicit the admiration oflovers of Fine 
Printing?.......................................................
X>o TTo-u. Know
that we are prompt, and that an order 
for a dollar receives as much care and at
tention as one for a hundred dollars? .
If you are fastidious, if you require 
prompt and efficient service, come to .
SPAHE cSo BITSCHEE,
6117*6119 Kirkwood Street
Bell Phones86 and 9216 Hiland
4M{"iM**>fr>g"f!a+**+***+++**++**++*+++**'o\o*o%o*o\o\o\ovo*o*o%o*o*o\o*ovo*o%01 
$ I 
/01
+++*
?0
1 o 
? o f
0 
 
g 
?1 
$ o
MELLON NATIONAL BANK
5F4 fI2CwG2avn fCdaaC 
45 G2GCw iVac1a
CAPITAL$4,000,000
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS OF
STUDENTS
daf.1dRaf .Vad 4F I2vv2.cf
0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+5
O\0XO*O%^*O%O%O%OXO%O*O%O%O*O%O%O*O% Ko
 so
o 
? o 
o 
? o 
? o * o *
A, S. SPALDING & BROS.
The Largest Manufacturers in the 
World of Implements & Uniforms
 lSP:- : ;PBASE BALL, LAWN TENNIS, 
Basket Ball, Golf, Track and 
Field Sports
Spaldings New Spring and Sumner 1S09 Catalogue, complete edi tior, 144 pages; about 2.000 Illustrations. Cojy mailed to any address cn receipt of request.
A. G. SPALDING
439 Wood Street
& BROS.
Pittsburg, Pa.xS+,S+*S*XQ+>lP%S+xS+%S+,t+xS+*t+O+
+0%+0*+0X+0N+O%+0%vvV,v'**vv*i;C>*,;-Q'*,i*<.''** mI BEST EQUIPMENT
Highest 
Grade 
Work
*
Prompt ? 
Service 
O
kSHD 0DSBL, + 
0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+
a,HEbsY,DLT F8y
aVadXCw2c 2c
SHOES
We make a specialty of a Storm tan in 
several styles for young men at $4-55-
 I HANAN & BAKER SHOE CO. 1* o *
0*0SO%OXOVO*O*O*O*O\O*O*O%O%O%O*OXO
4y5y7 m..n fCdaaC *
+O*0+O+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+0+O+0+0+0+O
