NOTRE DAME 
TRIP 
NOVEMBER 14
Y. M. C. A. DRIVE 
STARTS 
TOMORROW
VOL. XX NO. 7CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1925
CARNEGIE WILL 
MEET IRISH ON 
NOVEMBER 14
250 Students to Open Intensive Two Day Drive
For Y Memberships Early Tomorrow Morning;
Buddy Overend Charters 2 
Special Trains to South 
Bend, Indiana
ROUND TRIP $13.92;
CAN OBTAIN BERTHS
Pittsburgh, Youngstown and 
Canton Alumni to Leave 
For Notre Dame
With the W. and J. and Pitt games 
creditably disposed of, Carnegie's at
tention is now centered on the annual 
game with Notre Dame. Knute 
Rocknes Irishers are to be met this 
year on their home field at South 
Bend, Ind. on November 14. Now two 
great events fall on that same day, 
Mid-Semester Day and the Notre 
Dame game. What more fitting way 
to celebrate the former than by a 
victory in the latter? It would! usher 
in the final half of. the semester 
rather auspiciously, eh what?
And the beauty of it is that there 
is more than an even chance of ac
complishing that little trick. So con
fident is Buddy Overend of the re
sult of the game at South Bend that 
lie has chartered two special trains, 
one over the Pittsburgh and Lake 
Erie and one over the Pennsylvania 
railroad, to convey the Kiltie Band, 
students fortunate enough to have the 
necessary cash, and alumni from 
Pittsburgh and points west on these 
lines to witness the Tartan gridders 
attain the aim they have thrice un
successfully striven for.
The specials will leave Pittsburgh 
about 9:00 p. m. on November 13, 
arriving at (South Bend at about 7:00
a. m. on the morning of the game. On 
the return trip, the specials will leave 
South Bend about 9:00 p. m. and ar
rive in Pittsburgh about 7:00 a. m. on 
the 15. The fare will be $13.92 the 
round trip. Sleeping accommodations 
can be secured at $7.50 for an upper 
berth or $9.00 for a lower berth. The* 
trains will not be made up only of 
Pullmans however, but will include 
day coaches as well.
At Youngstown, 0-, one hundred 
and fifty alumni have already planned 
to go to the game and will board the 
P. and L. E. special. S'eventy-ilve 
more from Canton have already ex
pressed their intention to see the 
game and will get on the Pennsyl
vania special. The Pittsburgh Alumni 
Associations of both Carnegie and 
Notre Dame will also go, on the 
specials. It looks as if the thousand 
seats which the Graduate Manager 
has reserved at the Notre Dame sta
dium will be disposed of rapidly. 
Their cost is $2.50 each. Alumni 
should use the form printed on the 
athletic page of this issue of the Tar
tan to make their reservations for 
railroad and game tickets. Any stu
dent may secure a ticket for the game 
(Continued on Page Three.)
FUND STARTED TO 
HONOR CRABTREE
A Crabtree Memorial Fund is being 
founded in memory of the late Pro
fessor Frederick Crabtree, Head of 
Mining and Metallurgical Engineering 
Department at Carnegie until his 
death on February 14, 1925, by his 
former students. The proceeds of the 
Memorial will be directed to a yearly 
Mining and Metallurgy scholarship 
which will be awarded to Carnegie 
students.
The alumni of the Mining and Metal
lurgy are raising a fund to the mem
ory of Professor Crabtree and it will 
be awarded next year for the first 
time.
The trustees of the Crabtree Me
morial Fund are, C. R. Holzworth 14, 
chairman; A. D. Beeken 14, vice 
chairman; A. W. Gittins 08; L. F. 
Reinartz 09; E. B. Taggert '10; and 
Professor F. F. McIntosh, head of th 
Mining and Metallurgical Engineering, 
secretary and treasurer.
Professor Crabtree died after an ex
tended period of illness on February
14, 1925, at St. Petersburg. Florida.' 
He was born in Bramley, York, Eng
land, in 1867. Crabtree attended 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
where he was graduated with a B. S. 
degree in 1889 and later became a 
professor of Mining and Metallurgy at 
Colorado College, Colorado Springs. 
In 1906, he joined the faculty at Car
negie and was a member of it until 
his death.
CANDIDATES FOR TARTAN TO 
MEET TOMORROW AT 1:00 P. M.
The third set of lessons for Tartan 
editorial aspirants, will be discussed 
and criticized the Editor at the 
weekly meeting in Room 12, Indus
tries, at one o'clock tomorrow.
All men and women who intend to 
compete seriously for staff positions, 
must be on handRoll will be taken.
The reporters wrote an analysis of 
Tartan work, and outlined their ideas 
on Tartan standards of quality, last 
week. By a study of the papers 
turned in, the News Editors have 
"been able to line up the competitors, 
and several new names will appear on 
the mast head in the near future.
The eight-thirty bell tomorrow 
morning will be the signal for the 
opening of the Student Y. M. C. A. 
enrollment drive for 1925r26. Two 
hundred and fifty student represen
tatives will approach each man dur
ing the next two days in an endeavto complete a 100 per cent member
ship drive.
K. S. Lindauer, who is in charge of 
the drive, has appointed R. A. Bookmeer as chairman of Science Stahool, 
Pop Allen, Industries, and M. N. 
Goodwin, Arts School. These chair 
men have selected about seventy-five 
men in eachschool as members of 
their organization.
Two classes of membership will be 
open to the men this year. Those con
tributing three dollars will be classi
fied as contributing members. Those
RUSS ROLLER HEADS 
YEARS ARTS BALL
Senior Architect, Prominent 
in Campus Activities, is 
General Chairman
PLANS UNDER WAY
At the last meeting of the Arts 
School Senate, Russ Roller was ap
pointed chairman of the Arts Ball. 
The appointment marks the beginning 
of the preparation for the annual revel 
of the Arts School, which will be .the 
night of February 5, 1926.
In the selection of Roller as chair
man of the Ball, the Senate has picked 
a man whose ability to handle the po
sition is unquestioned. "Russ is a 
member of Dragon, Deita Skull, Druid, 
and Kappa Sigma, and is Varsity foot
ball manager. Pie was also chairman 
of last years Junior Prom.
The direction of the preparation 
covering a period of several months 
are now in his hands. The problem to 
face the new chairman is the appoint
ment of his subordinates, the an
nouncement of which will probably 
come as soon as the recommendations 
of last years committee have been 
acted upon.
With the chairman of the com
mittee the only definite action to date, 
the period of the ball is still a matter 
of conjecture. A number of sugges
tions have been informally discussed 
by the student body, among them 
Venetian, Russian, and Grotesque. 
The last named has caused consider
able comment because of its imagina
tive and exotic possibilitiesIt has 
also aroused much opposition from 
conservative quarters because of its 
vagueness of definition as to period.
Foremost among the rumors con
cerning this years Ball is the possi
bility of the elimination of the show 
from the program. In (he past the 
show, usually a musical production, 
written, directed, and produced by stu
dents. has been one of the main at
tractions of the Ball. If the show is 
left out of this years plans for the 
Ball no intimation of what might he 
substituted has been mentioned.
The selection of the period and the 
decision upon the show are the major 
problems which face Roller and his 
associates during the next month. 
Then will come the handling of the 
mass of detail surrounding, the de
sign and execution of the decorations.
PROF. H.L. LANG TO GIVE 
COURSE IN IND. HYGIENE
A special evening course on "Indus
trial Hygiene for welfare and per
sonnel managers, safety engineers, 
nurses and factory medical aids, will 
be given by Harold L. Lang, Professor 
of Biology and Public Health, one 
night a week from 7:30 to 10:30 in 
rooms 51 and 53 of the Science Build
ing.
The course will consist of twentythree meetings, beginning Friday eve
ning, October 30, 1925, and ending 
Friday evening, April 30, 1925. Reg
istration will be held at 7 oclock Fri
day, October 30, in the office of the 
Registrar, Central Building. The tui
tion fee is fifteen dollars and is nonrefundable in case the student discon
tinues.
The course will include lectures, 
demonstrations and quizzes, with as
signed readings. The scope, of the 
work will include the relationship of 
occupation to the health of the worker, 
with means for the prevention of oc
cupational diseases. A brief consider
ation of the spread of infectious dis
eases in general, introduces the 
course. Special consideration is given 
to dusty trades, industrial poisonings, 
industrial accidents, ventilation, light
ing, and sanitation of factories and 
other problems of vocational hygiene. 
No previous knowledge of biology, the 
sciences, or sanitation is required for 
admission.
This course is looked forward* to 
with great interest because the im
proving of factory conditions for the 
purpose of maintaining the health of 
workers is one of the most serious 
problems facing manufacturers. What 
has already been accomplished by the 
introduction of scientifically improved 
working conditions in many industrial 
plants has demonstrated that a whole
some environment is conducive to 
happier, healthier and more efficient 
workers.
There is still, however, a quite evi
dent need among manufacturers for a 
(Continued on Page Three.)
contributing five dollars will receive 
membership cards which will be re
cognized at all city branches as a 
social membership. These cards are 
honored by all Y. M. C. A. organiza
tions throughout the country and 
have been used extensively by Car
negie men who have been traveling 
during the summer months.
Since this is a two day campaign, 
the Y. M. C. A. asks the co-operation 
of every man by signing up prompt
ly. This will facilitate matters in 
bringing the drive to a successful 
close on Thursday night.
The activities of the Y. M. C. A. 
embrace almost every phase of nonscliolastic campus life. One has only 
to stop and think, to realize how 
much the "Y does for Carnegie men 
and women.
Student checks, to the amount of
ten dollars, are cashed daily in great 
numbers. Hundreds of dollars weekly 
pass through Mr. Davis hands for the 
convenience of Carnegie students.
Visits are made to the sick and in
jured, and radio outfits are supplied 
to them. When a fellows sick, its 
mighty good to have a friend.
Through the Y", foreign students 
are reached and helped to make their 
necessary adjustments to college life.
The Senior Counsellor Plan, insti
tuted by the Y. M. C. Aabout five 
years ago, has helped many a Plebe 
to meet the problems he encounters 
here.
Dormitory students, away from 
home, are introduced to the churches 
of their choice, regardless of creed.
These activities should assure the 
"Y of every students whole-hearted 
support.
DR. AMES TO 
LECTURE ON 
AERONAUTICS
Director of Physical Labora
tory at Johns Hopkins 
Coming
IS AUTHORITY
O N AVIATION
Talks Will be Given in Union 
Tuesday, Wednesday 
and Thursday
STUDENT TICKETS FOR
ALDINE AT TARTAN OFFICE
Student Tickets for Loows Aldino 
Theater, which eUtitlos the bearer to 
the privllogo of purchasing a ticket 
for any weekday matinoe performance 
at a spocial price of twenty-five coats, 
can bo secured at the Tartan oillco.
These tickets have boon obtained 
through the courtesy of tho Aldino 
management, by the Advertising Staff 
of tho Tartan. They are not good on 
Saturdays or Holidays. Tho tegular 
price of admission is fifty conts, so 
Student tickets are worth twenty-five 
cents.
This is tho first timo that these 
tickets have been secured and It rep
resents a now spirit of co-oporation 
between theaters and college news
papers.
The Tartan office is opon each 
school day from 12:30 to 1:30, at 
which time the tickets can be secured.
PLAID LOSES 
TO PANTHERS; 
SCORE IS 12-0
Aerial Offense Plays Big 
Part in Pitt Drive For 
Touchdowns
$12,000,000 in Twenty Years Goal of 
Carnegie Loyalty Bond Campaign
Carnegie Loyalty Bonds, costing one hundred dollars, payable in 
yearly installments of ten dollars, and entitling the holder to life mem
bership in the Alumni Association are to serve as the investment of 
present students and alumni In the future of Carnegie. The bonds are 
on sale now at the Alumni office.
The purpose of these bonds is to take advantage of the offer made 
by the Carnegie Corporation to double the amount of money raised should 
it total four million dollars at the end of twenty years.
The following letter from Mr. Porter explains in detail how every 
dollar donated will be worth seven dollars hy 1946:
G. L. Tilbrook, Esq.,
Alumni Executive Secretary.
Carnegie Institute of Technology,
Pittsburgh, Penna.
Dear Mr. Tilbrook:
. The Trustees Committee of the Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
having recently been informed of the very liberal translation made of 
the intent and meaning of the agreement made by and botwoon tho Car
negie Corporation of New York, and the Trustees of tho Carnegie In
stitute of Technology, it seems only fair to all concovnod, tlmt this con
struction be given as much publicity as possible, arid especially through 
Alumni channels.
The Board of Directors of the Carnegie Corporation, having decided 
to construe and accept as principal to our $4,000,000.00 Fund (which wo1 
must raise on or before July 1st, 19-16), all moneys received by us, in tho 
interim, plus the accumulated interest thereon.
TO ILLUSTRATE;For every $1,000.00 paid us before January 1st, 
1926, we shall have in principal and interest, by 19-16, the sum of $2,653.20 
To which the Corporation will add.................................................... 5,306.-10
Making the total donation................................................................... $7,959.60
Deducting amount, of original gift.................................................... 1,000.00
We find the original gift to have actually secured for us........... $6,959.60
Or, $6.95 for each $1.00 given.
Think of it, my dear Tilbrook$6.95 for every $l'.00, if given this
fall!
By similar calculations, we find
That $1,000.00 given in 1926 will produce........................................$6,580.58
That, $1,000.00 given in 1.927 will produce.............................................$6,219.62
That $1,000.00 given in 1928 will produce..........................$5,875.85
That $1,000.00 given in 1929 will produce.............................................$5,5-18.-13
Did you ever hear of $1,000.00 earning for any Institution such marvelous returns?
Sucli munificence has never boon dreamed of, lot alono hoard of, as 
is extended to us by the Corporation, and wo shall make some effort, 
in the near future, to make this $-1,000,000.00. an assured fact. 
_____________ (Continued on Page Two.)
L. E. Smith Appointed 
Science Stag Chairman
The Science Senate has appointed 
L. E. Smith, chairman of the Science 
Stag to be held In the Union, Decem
ber 12. He succeeds Paul J. Bowron 
who was forced t.o resign because of 
the pi*essure of-other duties.
'Smith served on the Stag committee 
last year as chairman of the Ref.^eshment Committee and is well equipped 
to manage the popular annual Engi
neering frolic. 1-Ie is a varsity track 
man with three yars or servico to his 
credit, earning his "C in 1923 arid
1924. 1-Ie is a Senior Physicist, a 
member of Tau Beta Pi and the Sig
ma Phi Epsilon fraternity.
To assist him Smith lias appointed 
the following men, F. L. Wagner in 
charge of the program, speakers and 
stunts; F. W. Swaile and Buryi Hill 
in charge of properties and stage ar
rangements; W. J. Kimmet to handle 
the Popularity Contest; C. F. Neu in 
charge of publicityt; and G. O. Wessenauer to handle the finances.
Competition among the four classes 
for the silver cup which goes to the 
class staging the best act, promises to 
be very keen. Last year the trophy 
was Avon by the Juniors with a burleskue on student assemblies, and 
they are out to repeat. All class 
presidents have appointed committees 
to work up the separate stunts.
RIFLE CLUB WILL HOLD
FIRST MEETING OCT. 28
The Rifle Club will hold its first of
ficial meeting of the year on Wednes
day, October 28, at 4:30 oclock, in 
room 217, Industries.
The Rifle Club is an organization 
which has been on the campus for six 
years. Through this club the Rifle 
team became a recognized sport at 
Carnegie.
New men are especially welcome to 
this meeting, for it is hoped that the 
club will have a record membership 
this year.
C.D. ARMSTRONG NAMED 
ON BOARD OF TRUSTEES
At a mooting of tho Board of Trus
tees of the Curnoglo Instituto held on 
October 20, Mr. C. D. Armstrong was 
unanimously elected.a mombor of tho 
Board to succoed Mr. William Con
way.
Mr. Armstrong is a well-known 
civic leader in Pittsburgh, being presi
dent of the Citizens Committee on 
City Plan of Pittsburgh, as well as 
director of tho Pittsburgh Chamber of 
Commerce, tho Tuberculosis League 
of Pittsburgh, and the Young Mens 
Christian Association. He is presi
dent of the Armstrong Cork Company 
and affiliated concerns and an official 
of the Unidfi National and Dollar Sav
ings Banks.
Mr. Armstrong's election is looked 
upon with favor in the office of tho 
President of the Board of Trustees as 
he is recognized as a willing and ca
pable worker.
The Board of Trustees of the Car
negie Institute comprises two divis
ions, the first being known as "Sec
tion A and including eighteen of the 
total of thirty-six1 members. They 
were originally appointed by Mr. Car
negie and have always elected their 
own successors. The second group is 
formed by the members of the Board 
of Trustees of the Carnegie Library, 
and they act in the dual capacity.
Hundreds of members of the Pitts
burgh Aero Club and tho Chamber of 
Commerce are expected to attend tho 
series of three public lectures on 
Aeronautics to be given noxt Tues
day, Wednesday, and Thursday eve
nings at Carnogie, by Dr. Joseph S. 
Ames, director of the physical labora
tory of Johns Hopkins Univorslty.
Although special invitations have 
been sent by President Thomas S. 
Baker to the mombors of tho Chamber 
and the Aero Club to attoiul because 
of their special interest in commercial 
aviation, emphatic announcement is 
made that the lectures are opon to all 
who are interested in tho subject of 
the series.
Dr. Ames, who is a graduate of 
Johns Hopkins, and has boon a mom
bor of tho faculty thoro since 18S8\ 1 
distinguished as physicist and as an 
authority upon tho toehnical aspects 
of aviation. Ho is chairman of tho 
Executive Committeo of tho National 
Advisory Committoo for Aeronautics 
of tho Govornmont, and In 1917 lie 
hoadod a foroign servico com
mission of tho National Re
search Council which visited France 
and England to study tho organization 
and development of scientific activi
ties In connection with warfuro.
Tho Ames locturos arc announced 
as the first of numerous sories that 
will bo prosontod under tho auspicos 
of tho local institution this year as a 
spocial sorvico to Pittsburgh scien
tists, onginoors, and business men.
Each of tho locturos noxt woolc will 
be given at 8:30 in the Union, with no 
tickets required l.o attond. The sub
jects of tho series will he as follows: 
Tuesday, Ocfobor 27, "Tho Uses of 
Aviation; Wodnosday, October 28, 
"The Status of Aviation in the Unit
ed States; Thursday, \Octobor 29, 
"Tho Scientific Aspocts of Aviation."
Cerutti is Made New 
Manager of Kilties
Band Plans Western Itinery 
With Football Team
Ed Goruttl, who ban acted In tho 
capacity of business manager of tho 
band to fill the vacunoy which has 
been loft bocauso of Cy Owons resig
nation, due to Inollglbillty. Lewis 
Jones was elected to fill the vacancy 
left by Corutti.
The Kiltie Band under Cy Owons 
management bus made remarkable 
progress, and have planned an active 
years work. Plans for taking tho 
hand to the Notro Damo game have 
already neared completion and for 
the first time in history, the Kilties 
will make their appearance on the 
gridiron at South Bend. Mid-West 
Alumni who have not as yet seen Car
negies Kiltie Band have something in 
store for them in addition to seeing 
the Tartans clash with the Irish.
Tho Kiltie band met with much ap
proval at the dedication of the Uni
versity of Pittsburghs new Stadium 
last Saturday. Perhaps nothing lent 
more color to the event than the cornbiped appearance of the Blue and Gold 
Band of Pitt and the Carnegie Kilcles. 
As one, they played the National an(Continued on Page Three.)
Carnegie R. O. T. C. Ranks Third
In Summer Camp'Progress Tests
CARNEGIE GUILD OPENS
MEMBERSHIP DRIVE TODAY
The Carnegie Tech Guild will open 
its eighth membership drive after 
Margaret Morrison Assembly today.
Tags, indicating membership in the 
Guild, will be sold at fifty cents each. 
The drive will continue until every 
Carnegie girl has been enrolled. Those 
in charge hope to equal the work of 
each former campaign, not one of 
which fell below a one hundred per
cent average.
Miss Estelle Bonnell, Assistant Pro
fessor of 'Social Work at Margaret 
Morrison, will explain the purpose of 
the guild in the Assembly this morn
ing, in order to properly inform all 
those who are not familiar with the 
work of this organization.
At the six weeks camp for Signal 
Corps R. O. T. C. students at Fort 
Monmouth, N. J., ihe Signal School 
authorities hold what are known as 
"Progress Tests. A test is given to 
all students on the day of their ar
rival and a similar test on the final 
day of camp. The object is to learn 
the progress made by each student 
during the six weeks of camp instruc
tion.
Th results of the tests held during 
the jyast summer have Just been re
ceived by the Military Department 
and they are highly satisfactory from 
Carnegies standpoint. In addition to 
the students from Carnegie, Massa
chusetts Institute of Technology, 
Georgia Tech, Cornell and Ohio Stato 
were represented at the camp. In the 
entrance tests, Ohio State stood first, 
but that school was represented by 
only four students, three of whom 
were seniors, the balance of its stu
dents having gone to a different camp. 
Cornell stood five-tenth of a point be
hind Ohio and Carnegie next, but 
seven-tenths of a point behind Corinell. The other schools were several 
! points behind Carnegie. The work of 
jour representatives,; however, was auJperior to that of thjs schools that had
higher averages because, of Carne
gies students, 46 per cent were Soph
omores and had not had the benefit of 
instruction in many of the subjects, 
as they are taught in the Junior and 
Senior years, while in Ihe cases of 
Cornell and Ohio State the students 
were all Juniors or Seniors, with prac
tically no exception. In other words, 
without the Sophomore grades, our 
average would have been four points 
above Ohio State. But on the final 
tests, our students bent out all schools 
hy many points except Cornell, which 
led us only hy one-tenth of a point, 
The individual work of somo Carnogio students was excellent, Harry
IS, Wallace, now a Senior in Electri
cal Engineering, was the second' high 
scorer Jn the initial tosts being but 
one point behind the high man, a Cor
nell student. The greatest progress 
during the six weoks was made by a 
Sophomore, Robert O. Perrine, now 
a Junior in Electrical Engineering, 
who upon the entrance test showed 
the lowest score among Carnegie stu
dents for the reasons already given 
but raised his score just 100 per cent 
to a mark on the final tests five points 
above Wallace, making him Carne
gies high scorer in the final.
INITIAL SHILLING TO 
BE ON SALE TODAY
First Issue of Literary Maga
zine Has Many Valuable 
Stories
PRICE IS 25 CENTS
The first issue of tho Shilling, Car 
nogios literary magazine, Is on salo 
today on tho campus, and tho number 
is well worth buying. Now talent has 
been discovered, and tho contributors 
include sevoral campus luminaries.
"A Now Problem, by Margaret 
Bakor deals with marriage and a 
career for womon, and will bo wel
comed by Carnogie womon, not only 
as a adequate discussion of tho prob
lem, but as a solution.
"S'oclal Conditions in Russia Dur
ing tho Reign of tho Czar has boon 
written by Clonla iSidransky, a native 
Russian student at Margaret. Morri
son, who has been in Amorica only 
four years. Sho writes vividly oJ! her 
porsonai experiences during this 
critical period of Russia's history.
"Shadows, hy Allco R. Mooro Is an 
Interesting contribution of poetry. 
"Poesy," hy Sam Well, Is a clover 
piece of verso about a flag. 
"Skotchos" written under the nom do 
plumo of Phillip Rowland, and "Al
bum Loaves by Don Maryo, are 
poems of merit.
Tho short story conten, of this ntimbor in made up of "Extracts from a 
Diary, by Josophlne Clark and "And 
There Game a Day, by Sara Eliza
beth Hays.
Soveral good hook reviews concludo 
this Issue of tho Shilling, namely 
"8'oundlngs, by IT. Hamilton Gibbs, 
"Tho Professor's Mouse, by Wllla 
Gather, "iSorona Blandish, and the 
"Difficulty of dotting Married. Tho 
Shilling Is a departure from ordinary 
class of College Publications. Like 
all worth while things In tholr begin
nings, Shilling Is striving to main
tain the highest literary standards 
posslblo and to establish a reputation 
which will win tho rospoet not only 
of Carnegie men and women who 
share Its honors, but of the world out
side the campus. Tho Shilling should 
bo bought and road; It. is*worth while,
TARTAN CORRECTS
MIS-STATEMENT
OF LAST WEEK
An erroneous statement appeared in 
last woelcs Tartan, to tho effect that 
the Puppet Is not under tho jurisdic
tion of tho Student Council.
Tho Puppet, like all other student 
publications, is required to make a 
report to the council, and to submit 
their copy to a faculty critic.
MUSICAL CLUBS DANCE 
WILL BE HELD NOV. 18
Tiie Annual Musical Clubs Dance, 
one of the biggest events on the 
Campus, has been definitely sched
uled this year for Tuesday evening, 
November 10th, in Carnegie Union, 
Plans have been suggested for dec
orating the Union in a noved manner 
for tho occasion.
The Musical Clubs are noted for 
their successful dances not only on 
the Campus, but in the many cities in 
which they have given concerts, it Is 
their custom to have a dance immedi
ately following every concert.
Alan Nern has been chosen as chair
man of the dance committee. 1-Ie and 
his assistants, Albert Wingold and 
Merrill I-Iollingshead, have arranged 
an attractive program. The exact na
ture of this program, however, Is be
ing kept a close secret.
The committee has been extremely 
fortunate in securing tho services of 
the Techsons to play for the dance. 
The Techsons are very popular on 
the Campus this year, They bav$ 
Just completed a summer engagement 
(Continued on Page Two.)
CARNEGIE PR0FE880R8
REPRESENTED IN EXHIBIT
Professor Charles J. Taylor, Ray
mond S, Simboli and Samuel loosenberg, all members of the faculty of 
Carnogie Institute of Technology, are 
represented by paintings in tho 
Twenty-fourth annual International 
Exhibition at the Carnegie Institute 
this year.
Professor Taylor is Head of the De
partment of Painting and Decoration 
in the College of Fine Arts. Simboli 
und Rosenberg, both former students 
of Carnegie, are instructors in the De
partment of Painting and Decoration.
CARNEGIE ATTACK 
RETARDED BY MUD
Fumbles Prove Costly to Tar
tans; Lose Ball on 14 
Yard Line
Tho Pitt tusslo is now a thing of 
the past and nothing is loft but to 
hopo for greater success in the follow
ing games of this years schedule. Tho 
game was a plucky struggle against 
opponents who outweighed, outguessed 
and outplayed) the. Tartan squad, but 
it is ploasant to think back on tho 
contest as ono which called forth tho 
best, efforts of both teams, exemplified 
clean play and the ability to lose tho 
breaks and smile.
Alibis are poor things at best and 
this is hardly tho place to lot tho 
weak sisters toll how the game should 
have boon played, but it is gonernlly 
agreed that Carnegie had1 to opposo 
not only a crack team, but tho ele
ments as well. Tho gods nmist hnvo 
had tholr money on Pitt, because one 
downpour followed another much to 
overyonos disgust and discomfort.
Tho dedication exorcises were porCormod in tho smoothest posslblo 
way. Tho presentation and accept
ance of tho studlum could not ho 
hoard In tho stands, but Chancellor 
Bowman bxprossedi a splendid idea of 
sportsmanship and fair play in his ad
dress. Tho parade of tho coin ml ttoos, tho 11. O. T. C., and tho bands 
lout, an linprosslvo air to tho program.
Tho feature of tho gamo, as far as 
the Plaid was concerned, wan the re
markable way that they stood up 
against, tho Pitt onslaught when tho 
(Univorslty team neared Carnoglos 
goal lino. Several times tho bull was 
brought hazardously close to tho 
wrong ond of tho field, but ovoryllmo 
Clio home team put; up a.n hiponotliablo 
wall of defoiuio, Carnegies Waterloo 
was tho stellar serial gamo that tho 
Pilit team was ablo to negotiate, It 
was almost uncanny tho wa.y the ball 
would sottlo down In an opponents 
arms and stay thoro. Tho risk In
volved win grout, hut the rewards 
woro also worth mentioning.1
Tho iCiirnogle team, played so well 
as s. whole tlunl. It Is impossible to 
pick any ImdlvUllual, horoos, however 
Yodor, Krlstoff, Donohua and Boodo 
luid the opportunity to show tho 
most brilliant stuff. Tho spinner play 
that brought homo tho bacon In past 
years could not bo run, off In Its usual 
baffling way due to tho condition of 
tho Held, so It was up to McClelland 
(Continued on Pago Throo)
NEW DIRECTORY TO 
BE ON SALE NOV. 3
On or before Novomber third, tho 
new 'Student Directory containing tho 
names, tolophono numbors, and homo 
and school addresses of all Carnegie 
students, will be on sale. Tho Direc
tory has not yet boon priced. Coplos; 
will bo obtainable at tho Tri-Publica
tions offico, room 12 Industries, orfrom student sulcsmen.
The Directory has been bound in a. 
multicolor castillan cover of the Lefax 
note book size for attractiveness and 
convenience. Two lines are dovotod 
to the name, course, class, homo ad
dress, Pittsburgh address, and tele
phone numbor of euch student. Tho 
fraternities and mens and womens 
dormitories are also included, with 
addresses and telephone numbers; all 
this data has been checked and rochecked with every possible effort, to 
avoid errors.
Tho new booklet is the second an
nual directory published, tho first be
ing pubished last year by Donald II. 
Milne and George I-I. Carl, acting for 
the Tri-publications. This year V. B. 
Smith and E. J. Cerutti head tho Di
rectory. Improving on the past, there 
will he no advertising in the booklet; 
influencing tho use of the. Directory 
as a keepsake In memory of college 
friends.
The Directory is in valuable for 
keeping in touch with frjends by mail 
or telephone or for the even moro im
portant purpose of contracting dates. 
No one can be without this social 
rogisLer,Its priceless.
A delay Is expected in publishing 
tho new directory, for the copy will 
be posted so tho stud on ts can mako 
any necessary corrections of their 
own address. This plan, howovor, is 
only tentative,
COSMOPOLITAN CLUB TO
HOLD HALLOWEEN PARTY
The Cosmopolitan Clubs of the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh and Carnegio 
Tech are staging a joint Hallowe'en 
party at tho Heinz House, (Pitt 
Campus), Friday night at 8:30 p. m. 
The house will be decorated to suit 
the occasion, and diversified enter
tainment will be furnished, In addi
tion to music for dancing. All of tho 
clubs' members and friends are in
vited to tho affair, which will become 
an annual party, if successful.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1925
J0CARNEG ICWL
0
Published ovory week by undorgradualou of tbo Carnoglo Iriatltuto of 
Technology undor tho flupervbdon of tbo Student Council.
Entered In I,bo Poiitofilco of Plttwburgh *an nocond NOTRED mutter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
CARL WINNING..)......................................................................,. /Schonloy 070
J. M. a OHS
A880CIATE EDITORS
ft. R. SIT5LER
MANAGING EDITOR
JOE CRISTOFF........................................................................................Schonloy 285
H. L. LIQPPER, AtHlHtaut......................................................................Schonloy
M. T. IIOLLINSI IE A D, Assistant.........................................................Highland 0077
NEWS EDITORS
A. V. NIUIIN...........................................................................................Schonloy 4070.7
F. A. ICOLI.........................................................................................Franklin 048r.-W
S. WEIL........................................................................................................Ilassel Mio
10. TA i ih MA DO JO...................................................................................Highland 525.1
W. J. KIM MIO I
ALUMNI EDITOR
.Highland 127
REPORTERS
M. Nuttull, M. Colln, F. Finn, M. Stump, R. M. Pow, C. Neu, C. Hartung, 
L. Feldstein.
ATHLETIC EDITOR
.T. A. C. FOLL0R...................................................................................Highland 5081
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
A. R. Unrlow, Itnhocca W. Spoors, I). M. Unvldson, .1. lt.. Bracken.
BUSINESS MANAGER
.Franklin 5547-J
ARNOLD PERRETON.
ADVERTISING MANAGER
...............Schonloy 0211
CIRCULATION MANAGER 
L. BARBROW........................................................................................Montrose 0217
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
N. Alexander, J. P. StiT/.ak, B. Supowlt/., L. Sachs, IT. Kandell, A. C. 
Hough, F. W. Moore, R. L. Grlbble, Gladys Reynolds, W. A. Bernard!, .T. M.
Alrgood, A. (!. Campbell, 10. Ross, B. Wodncr.___________________________________
The EdItor-ln-ChloC Is responsible for tho policy of this paper; tbo 
Managing Editor for tbo niako up. ______ ______ ______ ______
Tho Tartan welcomes all communications of student Interest, If slgnod. 
Signature will bo withhold If desired. All nows items must bo in tho student 
post olilco before 4:30 Thursday.
Tartan OIIlcoRoom 5, Industries Building. OIIlco hoursDally 12:30- 
1:20.
Arts Grad Begins 
Work in Florida
Louis C. Sigloch Establishes 
Studio at Miami
Louis C. Sigloch, a graduate of tho 
Carnegie architectural department, 
has established a studio In tho Hal
cyon Arcado at Miami, Florida. Mr. 
Sigloch, and C. H. Johnson, his part
ner, have attained national fame as 
architects, having been formerly lo
cated in New York City.
Mr. S'iglocn Is a member of the 
American Institute of Architects and 
sorved for sovoral years as chairman 
of the Pelham, N. Y., building com
mission. Ho has supervised tho plan
ning of many of the largo estates in 
Westchester county, Now York, and 
has just completed the plans for a 
church in Palm Beach. Tho Hell 
(late Bridge, tho Qiieonsboro bridge 
and the New York Stale Education 
building, all of which are quite wellknown structures, wore designed by 
Sigloch. On tho Puciilo Coast, ho Is 
known for having supervised the city 
planning of Almeda, Berkeley, and 
Oakland; After graduating from Car
negie, Mr. Sigloch studied at the 
Beaux Arts and the Henri School of 
Art.
CRAIG RESTAURANT
The place where all the fellows 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
Everythings jake 
when you 
smoke IM CM

TROUBLES n bubble, just as the song says. 
And you can stick it with the stem of your old 
jimmy-pipc, filled to the brim with good old 
Prince Albert. A icniedy? Its a specific! Ask 
any jiminy-pipcr who ever butted into trouble.
Cool as the zone-of-kelvination you read 
about in the refrigerator ads. Sweet as the kiss 
of spring on a winter-weary brow. Fragrant as 
locust blossoms. Soothing as a cradlc-song. 
AndP. A. cant bite your tongue or parch 
your throat. The Prince Albert process fixes that!
Get on the sunny side of life with a jimmypipc and P. A. Tie a tidy red tin to trouble. 
Smoke the one tobacco thats got everythin:; 
you ever wished forPrince Albert. Quicker 
you get going, the sooner your worries will be 
over, Men who thought they never could smoke 
a pipe are now P. A. fans. Youll be a cheer
leader too!
t>RINCE ALBERT
no other tobacco is like it!
p..............I'uly red tins, 
pound tin 
pound crystiil-glats humidor/ 
with spo'tgc-inoistener fop. 
And always with every hit of 
bile and parch removed by the Prince Albert process.
Look al the U. S. revenue 
stamp  there are TWO full
Cromes
WILLIAM PENN HOTEL 
Today and Tomorrow
CARNEG  I
fflMcnmffiir
Flftlx Avenue at 46"' Street
NEW YORK
SHoes
12,000,000 in Twenty Years Goal of 
Carnegie Loyalty Bond Campaign
{Continued From Page One.)
If we could raise $2,000,000.00 before January 1st, 19.30, and compound 
the Interest on it, it would lie all we would have to ask for, to secure our 
additional $8,000,000.00 in 1940. 
Does not some Alumnus know some great financier, or benefactor, 
who Is looking for an opportunity to Invest ?2,000,000.00 in properly Edu
cated Manhood and Womanhood, and for an Immortal Name and Cause?
The Carnegie Institute of Technology has long surpassed Mr. Car
negies fondest ambition and hopes for her, and she is becoming, daily, 
moro and more vital to the well-being of this greatest of industrial dis
tricts, as well as to the entire technical world.
Our graduates are making good on all sides, In all lines of endeavor, 
and soon they will acclaim CARNEGIE" as the greatest technical col
lege on earth. 
Let AE not forget that this $4,000,000.00 In going tp bring "soon 
a whole generation nearer, for all of us.
Are there 2<000 people in the world who have Carnegies welfare and 
future enough at heart to give us $1,000.00 each, before January 1st, 1925? 
Or, can we sell 2,000 parts of thin underwriting at 1,000.00 per part, to . 
a much lesser number of persons?
Who will give us our first $100,000.00 and thus cause the Corpora
tion to give us $5.'{0,040.00, in doubling the original gift and its accumu
lated Interest of $105,320.00, making ultimately, the grand total of this 
one gift $795,900.00 of tbo desired $12,000,000.00?
That $12,000,000.00 is easily ours, If we realize the importance of 
prompt action.
If we could institute a campaign in the near future and get 2,000 
notes, for $1,000.00 each, payable on or before January 1st, 1930, with
out interest, we would still be able to secure our $4,000,000.00 by July 
1st, .1940, and our $8,000,000.00 as a bonus for having done it.
A number of Institutions have raised funds amounting to over $5,000,- 
000.00 each in the past year with no apparent effort. Can we not get 
$2,000,000.00 by a determined five-year-pull-together?
Lets hit them high!
Lets hit them low!
Come on, Students, Alumni,
LET'S GO!
Very cordially yours,
__________________ (Signed) JOHN. L. PORTER.
STRAND THEATER
The Iron Horse.
Dedicated to the memory of Abra
ham Lincoln and those engineers and 
toilers who fulfilled Ills dream, The 
Iron IIorBe will be'presented to p'atrons of Rowland & Clarks Strand 
Theater, Thursday and Friday, Octo
ber 29 and 30. The Iron Horse Is 
described as a collossal masterpiece, 
and is the highest point ever attained 
by a motion picture .production. It is 
astounding in Its mighty proportions, 
the theme of The Iron Horse is 
the race between the Central Pacific 
and Union Pacific railways for mile
age in the building of the first trans
continental railway, during and after 
tho Civil War. It pictures the linking 
of the two great oceans which guard 
tho coasts of the United States by 
tlioso parallel bars of steel which al
ways precedes the march of progress 
and civilization. It shows two great 
armies of men,'collected from every 
corner of the earth, working like 
fiends Incarnate, overcOming>seeming
ly unsurmountable obstacles, in a ter
rific race for mileage, land grants and 
bonuses. All the visin, work, lovo, 
sorrow, joy, sin, life and death that 
go with every big undertaking are 
shown in this wonderful picture with
amazing detail and truth. There is a 
pleasing romance, well told, that runs 
throughout the picture, but it is the 
big historical significance underlying 
it wlii'ch sends a thrill to the heart of 
every real American. One of the out
standing features is the acting of 
George OBrien who plays the role of 
Dave Brandon with the fine technique 
of the veteran actor. At all times he 
moves through his part with utmost 
naturalness, occasionally rising to 
heights of emotional acting. Madge 
Bellamy has the leading feminine role, 
and the large cast includes Cyril 
Chadwick, Fred Kohler, Will Walling, 
Judge E. S. Bull, James Gordon, J. 
Farrell MacDonald and others. The 
comedy Look Out and a news week
ly will also be on the program.
Charm of Brick House
Europe bus been a land of brick 
houses for hundreds of yeurs and 
America Is rapidly emerging from the 
Woe len Age. Many u traveler has 
returned from abroad with, tales -f 
the picturesque homes of England, 
quite unaware that the underlying 
cause of their charm lies in the mate
rialsolid, dignified brickthe appeal 
of which has only been enhanced by 
veara of sunshine and storm.
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Irens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
At Sheridan Square East Liberty
TSAALWL HCAA
3808 FIFTH AVENUE
BOWLING-, POOL AND BILLIARDS
Tobacco Confectionery
B Sehenley 9291 
P. J. Fitzgibbon Lee Duncan
TOVVB1B 4D.UBPD; I2B-B2
Hart Schaffner & Marx
4.0D; tPU
Overcoats
$34.50
Youll find that most 
men at college wear 
Hart Schaffner and 
Marx clothing be
cause these men know 
H. S. and M. clothes 
meet all their require
ments in every detail 
Style, Quality and 
Workmanship.
Frank & Seder 
Fourth Floor
ALUMNI NOTES j
Mary Power, a graduate of the 
Drama Department at Carnegie, will 
be the Instructor of dramatics at the 
Central Y. M. C. A. during the com
ing season. Miss Power is also an 
instructor in drama at Carnegie night 
schoolEarl E. 'Smith, a graduate of the 
Mchanical Engineering Department 
of Carnegie, Is instructor in science 
and mathematics at the shop engin
eering school conducted by the Mc
Keesport Y. M. C. A. Smith has been 
senior instructor in this school for 
the past two years. He graduated 
from Carnegie with a B. S. degree and 
later obtained the degree of Mechanr 
cal Engineer.
Miss Dorothy Skinner, a graduate 
of Margaret Morrison, is at present 
an instructor in art in the public 
schools of Pittsburgh. She is also 
conducting a series of Monday night 
classes on costume design in the Con
gress of Clubs.
Suzanne Keener, who studied music 
in the Carnegie Arts school, is receiv
ing wide recognition as a coloratura 
soprano of tho Metropolitan Opera 
Company. After leaving Carnegie, 
she studied in New York under Mme. 
Delia Valeri.
> TACE ELf4 l
BUFFALO CLAN
The Buffalo Clan met at the home 
of Russel Porter and elected the fol
lowing officers for the coming year: 
Raymond J. Weppner, president; Rus
sel Porter, vice president, and - Her
bert L. Moershfelder, secretary-treasurer. At the meeting, plans were dis
cussed for the Clans trip to Pitts
burgh for the Pitt game, as well as 
arrangements for the annual Christ
mas dinner for the undergraduates. 
The meeting was well attended, but 
there are a number of Carnegie men 
in Buffalo who are still to come out, 
and it is urged that they attend the 
monthly dinners which are to be held 
this season. Notices wiil be sent to 
these men.
ST. LOUIS CLAN
The officers of the St. Louis Clan 
are as follows: N. P. Rice, president; 
P. Klingensmith, vice president; O. 
Wilkins, treasurer, and M. AZellar, 
secretary, 2127 Pine street, St. Louis, 
Mo.
Many people are wise on radio mat
ter, yet do not know why their foun
tain pen 'leaks, or that they can 
purchase one that will give entire 
satisfaction at the Jenkins Arcade 
Singer Pen and Gift Shop.
GO TO THETECH BARBER SHOP
for
YOUR HAIR CUTS
Five Barbers at your 
service.
ON FORBES 
Two Doors Below Craig
MUSICAL CLUBS DANCE
WILL BE HELD NOV. 10
(Continued From Page One.) 
dent book with fifty cents at the 
Graduate Managers office.
Although the trip is planned pri
marily for the alumni, any Carnegie 
at The Pines and are all set for a big 
season.
The price of admission is $1.50 per 
couple, a very nominal fee.
Provisions are made for a large 
crowd as the previous dances have 
been well attended.
Any Gain Better*n a Lons
A lean award Is better than a fat 
Judgment.Benjamin Franklin.
First Unitarian Church
Ellsworth and Morewood Aves.
Ask r
Mors Sor Yoisx* Mosaey
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
L. Walter Mason, D.D., Minister
Sunday School, 9:45 A M. 
Preaching Service, 11:00 A M.
Young Peoples Meet
ing, 6:30 P. M.
Special Invitation to Students.
Overco a terss
Wednesday 
JOHN GOLDENS Stage 
Success 
THE WHEEL
Thursday and Friday 
Direct from 1 years run in 
New York 
THE IRON HORSE
Geo. O'Brien Madge Bellamy
Saturday 
BEBE DANIELS in 
"Lovers in Quarantine
Next Monday and Tuesday 
RONALD COLMAN in 
The Dark Angel 
Sclcctcd ComcdioB & Short Subjecta
Read the FILM FORECAST 
Pittsburghs only motion 
picture magazine.
; LWAVS '..A copi),-SHOW,
SOMETIMES' A CHEAT1.' ONE ~
Meet Me 
at theTOVVB1B TO2PB2
SCHOOL SUPPLIESCANDY
LUNCHONETTE
cnB TOVVB1B Int2mtir
RUSSELL T. BOUCH, Proprietor 
3900 FIFTH AVENUE, CORNER BOUQUET STREET 
Phone Sehenley 2212 PITTSBURGH, PA.
ALL
SEATS
25c4THLEALh
ALL
SEATS
25c
CONTINUOUS 2 TO 11 P. M.
EtERPRISES THEATERS CO. HARRY DAVIS, General Manager
S
MONDAY AND TUESDAY, OCTOBER 26 AND 27
THE UNKNOWN LOVER
35
with ELSIE FERGUSON. FRANK MAYO, MILDRED HARRIS, 
LESLIE AUSTEN
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, OCTOBER 28 AND 29 
BERT LYTELL, CHARLOTTE MERRIAM, STUART HOLMES, 
MABEL JULIENNE SCOTT in James Oliver Curwoods
Steele of the RoyaS Counted
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, OCTOBER 30 AND 31
LOUISE DRESSER, JACK PICKFORD, CONSTANCE BENNETT, 
GEORGE COOPER in Rex Beachs
ttTHE GOOSE WOMAN
ADDED ATTRACTION ALL WEEK
THE FRESCO PLAYERS
Novelty Popular Orchestra of Seven Clever Musicians.
COMEDIES NEWS REELS NOVELTY FILMS
Plenty of Parking Space.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1925THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
&PLAID ATHLETICS
&
PITT HARRIERS
OUTRUN PLAID
Tartans Defeated by Wide 
Margin; Score 15-45; Plebes 
Lose Close Contest
The Plaid! cross-country team usher
ed in its season with a 15 to 45 defeat 
at the hands o Pitt last Saturday over 
.the Sehenley Park course. The con
ditions under which the race was run 
were anything but ideal. The mud in 
many places was ankle deep, and a 
drizzling rain fell during the entire 
race. The time made oy the runners 
was very good coisidering the condi
tion of the course. Ted Corbett holds 
the record for this course, having run 
it in twenty-eight minutes and eight
een seconds. He tried hard to beat 
this time yesterday, but the elements 
combined against him. His time yes
terday was five seconds slower than 
the record.
The race started shortly after 10:30. 
The Pitt harriers were already on the 
course when Carnegie's team arrived. 
At the start of the race the runners 
kept fairly well bunched. As the race 
went on, however, the Pitt athletes 
slowly pulled away from the Plaid un
til six of them crossed the finish line 
before any Tartan runners. The grad
uation of Dykeman left no one on the 
team that could beat Corbett.
The order of finish .was as follows: 
Corbett, time 28:23; Kerr, Marquis, 
Howell, Roy, Adams, all of Pitt; 
Peck, Carnegie; Powell, Pitt; McNair, 
Salkin, Tobe, alf of Carnegie; Corski, 
Larsen, Pitt; Himes, Ewing and Lustenberger, Carnegie.
Ultebes Lose to Pitt Frosh.
The Plebes faced the strong Pitt 
Freshman squad id their first meet of 
the season. The race resulted in a 
2G to 29 defeat. Pitt took the first, 
second, fourth, ninth and tenth posi
tions, the remainder going to Carne
gie. Inexperience of the Plaidi run
ners was a big factor in their defeat. 
The Plebe squad is very evenly bunch
ed, the five men taking places finish
ing within one minute of one another. 
With a few more races under their 
belt, they be a very formidable oppo
nent.
The order of finishing was as fol
lows :
Hoffman (time, 16:20:4); Edwards, 
Pitt; Allison, Carnegie; Cobun, Pitt; 
Haven, Campbell, Fuller, Kinney, Car
negie; Mench, A. Campbell, Pitt.
MJXENffiERG
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN
r
The
SPORT SACK
WL
(Four 'Piece)
ITH knickers a sport 
suitwith trousers a sack 
suit. In woolens of rare 
quality and rich pattern, 
the popular all round suit.
3950 and H250
nat LUXENBF.RG o bro
37 UNION SQUARE 
NEW YORK, N. Y. 
HOTEL SCHENLEY 
Wednesday and Thursday 
November 4th and 5th
Our style memo, book sent free on request
Four banks of keys o&she newTSeSEC FOUR.
This is the first 
portable type 
writer equally 
suitable for home or 
office use.
It has the same keyboard 
used on nearly all office 
machines; it has the stand
ard 12-yard ribbon, stand
ard 10-inch carriage, and 
can be carried anywhere. 
Backed by an 18-yeat rec
ord of proved durability. 
Come in today and see it.
CoronaTypewriterCo.
CORONA CORNER 
FIFTH AND LIBERTY
PLAID LOSES TO /
PANTHERS: SCORE 12 TO 0
(Continued From Page One.) 
and' the other boys to make some 
worth while plunges through the line. 
It was amazing the way the backfield could grab a slippery ball, get 
in motion and crasn a solid line in 
less than it takes to tell about It. Car
negie had one unfortunate break that 
might have resulted in a different 
outcome if things had not happened 
as-they did. The Panthers fumbled, 
the plaid recovered, and sent the ball 
down to the fourteen-yard line, but 
on the very next play, the Scotchmen 
lost the ball again and tilings stood 
as they had previously. Tough breaks 
came for both teams throughout the 
game and the outcome could not be 
credited or discredited to any indi
vidual player.
Ivifer endeared himself to the hearts 
of all Pitt rooters by pnlling down the 
prettiest pass that has been made in 
recent years. Welch threw a long, 
high pass that loooked as though it 
was going to be incomplete, but Kifer 
reached up and secured it, and scam
pered off for Pitts touchdown. The 
play got commendation from everyone.
The Carnegie stands certainly cov
ered themselves with distinction by 
the way they supported the team, win 
or lose. The yells were frequent, 
loud, and showed plenty of spirit and 
enthusiasm. Credit is due the cheer
ing staff for pulling off the stunt at 
the half in such good shape.
The game leaves no regrets for one 
good team defeated another in a con
test that was hard and uncertain 
throughout. The city title goes over 
to the other hill for a year.
The lineup:
Pitt12. Carnegie Tech0.
MoMillin ...........L. E............. Goodwin
Salata................L. T.....................Myers
Steele ................L G................. Cowan
Cutler...................C...................... Manby
Wissinger..........R. G........................Cass
Chase (C.) ........R. T....r......... Yodo
Kifer .................R. E................ Kri3tof
Harding ...............Q................. Donohue
Brown ..;..........L. H.. Wertenberger
Welch ...............R. H_____ McClelland
Gustafson ............F......... (C.) Beede.
Sfcore by periods:
Pitt................................6 0 6 012
Carnegie Tech............... O' 0 0 0 0
Touchdowns  Kifer, Gustafsdn. 
Missed tries for pointsGustafson 2. 
Missed field goalGustafson 1.
SubstitutionsPitt, J. Schmitt for 
Harding, Demoise for Kifer, Roberts 
for McMillen, McMillin for Roberts, 
Kifer for Demoise, Demoise for ICifer, 
Roberts for M'cMillln, Hlagan for 
Brown, Kern for Salata, Booth for 
Gustafson, Coulter for Cutler, Mo 
Cutcheon for Welch, Fisher for 
Steele, Linn for Wissinger, I-Ioban for 
J. Schmitt, Irwin for Hagan.
Carnegie TechYogt for Kristof, 
Marshall for Myers, .Kristof for Vogt, 
Myers for Marshall, Vogt for Kristof, 
Harmon for Wertenberger, Marshall 
for Yoder; Coop'er for Marshall, Se
bastian for McClelland.
RefereeG. N. Banka.rt, Dartmouth. 
UmpireD. H. Watlceys, Syracuse. 
Head linesmanJ. H. Moffatt, Prince^ 
ton. Field judgeJ. C. Holderness, 
Lehigh.
Time of periods15 minutes.
Headquarters 
for your
Collegiate Togs
------and------
Freshman
Accessories
ICOLLEGE SHOP
4618i/2 FORBES STREET
SQUAWK TAYLOR
PITT FRESHMEN 
HOLD PLEBES'6-6
Both Touchdowns Are Con
sequences of Breaks in 
Game
tt
TM
II
I   
tt
II 1 tt
STUDENTS!
We Specialize In 
STUDENTS 
DRAWING OUTFITS 
at special prices.
Also in 
Cameras, Films, Etc. 
Developing and Printing.
In a field that resembled a mudpuddle the Plebes and Pitt Freshman 
battled to a (5 to 6 tie. It was a hardfought game throughout, with neither 
team having much of an advantage as 
they sloshed back and forth during 
the four periods.
Both touchdowns came in the third 
period, one the result of a fumble and 
the other a blocked kick. Pitt regis
tered first when Limiric fumbled on 
his own twenty-five, Helslng recover
ing and running to his own three-yard 
line. Here he fumbled, the ball roll
ing over the goal line where it was 
recovered by Barnes for the touch
down. The try for point was blocked.
The Plebes scored a few minutes 
iater when Morrow, right tackle, 
blocked a punt and fell on tho ball 
over the goal line. The chance tc 
beat Pitt was lost here when I-Iarp3ters droplock failed to lift off the 
ground.
Neither team could do much with 
the slimy ball, although the Plebes 
were threatening Pitts goal on the 
nine-yard line as the half ended. The 
game was good in spots and some 
good football was displayed by the 
Carnegie Freshman, especially on the 
defense. Pitt could gain nothing 
through the line and very little around 
the ends.
Harpster and Limiric played well in 
the backfield, the former consistently 
out-punting the Pitt team. Stauffer, 
in his first appearance in the back
field, reeled off a thirty-ilve-yardi run 
which made the Pitt backers hold 
their breath. The line showed up 
good in Saturdays battle, outplaying 
Pitts forwards and stopping every 
play that1 Pitt directed through tho 
line.
The lineup follows:
Car. Plebes6. Pitt Fresh.6.
English ................L. E........... Slieraks
Meizinger.............L. T.......................Fox
Lovewell .............L. G............ Demolio
Cunningham ........O................... Barnos
Young ..................R. G......... Newcamp
Morrow ................R. T................. Getts
Kursman ...........R. E... (C.) Guarlno
Harpster ................Q................. Rooney
Linuiria (C.). ...L. H............ Crabb
Crum .................R. II..----- Berkman
Letzelter ................F..............Deleman
Score by periods:
Pitt....................................0 0 6 06
Tech ...................................0 0 G 0G
TouchdownsPitt, Barnes; Carne
gie, Rankin.
'Substitutions  Pitt Freshmen: 
Davis for Deleman, I-relslng for Slierales', Waller for Newcamp, Shoraks 
for Helslng, Neeley for Demolio.
Carnegie PlebesRankin for Kousman, Stauffer for Crum, Relsingor for 
Young, Kousman for Rankin, Young 
for Reisinger, Sweet for English.
RefereeMcFarland, W. & J. Um
pireW. S. Grass, Penn 'State. Head 
linesmanCf K. Rebele, Alleghony. 
Time of quartern15:15, If and 10.
Pitt Fumble Recovered By Goodwin on Opponents 14 Yard LinePLEBES PLAY IN 
BOWL NEXT Sat.
Indiana Normal to Furnish 
Opposition; No VarsityGame Scheduled
On the Plaid Screen
J. A. C. FOLLER
DEFEATED
It was a good game; we were licked fairly and squarely. Under 
the existing conditions, there was no doubt but that tho better team 
won. What the result would have been, had we been blessed with a 
dry field, is a matter of pure conjecture. However, such was not the 
case and we must relinquish the city championship with all the grace 
of good losers. No one who saw the contest can deny Pitt the right 
to a complete victory.
Brilliance in handling the ball was out of the question, and made 
the gamo appear slow, however it was not strictly academic football 
that the crowd came to. sec, but the contest itself. For excitement, 
the affair was not lacking a bit.
After all, it was rather nice that the Panthers won their dedica
tion contest; what say? And boy, what a Stadium!
Tho Plebos acquitted tliemsolvos well; tholr game serves as a barometer 
by which to judge the rolatlve merits of tho material that will make up tho 
Pitt-Carnegie lineups of the immediate future. Both teams scored as the 
result of breaks.
CROSS COUNTRY
Both varsity and Froshman teams wore outrun last Saturday morning. 
The varsity defeated left no room for argument, Pitt making a perfect score 
with a team fully as good as that of last year. Tho Tartans, however, are 
showing rapid improvement and should give a good demonstration next Thurs
day afternoon, when Alfred Collogo Is to bo mot on the Carnoglo paths. In 
spite of adverse weather conditions, Tod Corbett, Pitts ace, could have 
broken the eourso record hud ho boon informed how noar bo was to doing it.
Considering that litt had two meots to tholr credit boforo tackling tho 
Tartans, tho overwhelming score appears In a measure, justifiable. Experi
ence plays an Important role In cross-country running.
The Carnegie plebes, as in the football game, made a very good showing 
at tho hill and dale meet, and will doubtlossly win the remainder of tbo con
tests In tholr schedule.
ODDS VS. ENDS
Quite Jin Improvement was notlcod In tbo olieoring last Saturday. Every 
year tho yll-loadors aro confronted with tho problom of gaining tho conlldonco of t.lio choorlng section, and securing wholo-heartod co-oporatlon. By 
the way the studonts responded at tbo last gamo, It, appears that the afore
mentioned dlillculty has boon ovorcomo onco moro.
Sevoral signs wore torn down from tbo girls dormitorios on Thursday 
and Friday nights. Carnoglo students are to be congratulated upon refrain
ing from such high school methods of donionst.rat.lon. The big point to bo 
romemberod is that those Instances do not Impart tho attitude of a student 
body, but aro only tho outbursts of a low domoutod sensationalists.
Max Bastians leg Is giving every ovldonco of trying In be Itsolf, and 
should permit him to start in tbo Drexol gamo of two weeks lienee. Max 
would havo holpod out-a lot, last woek end.
TO SECURE SEATS AND RAILROAD TICKETS FILL IN AND 
MAIL IMMEDIATELY
CLARENCE OVEREND, Graduate Manager of Athletics,
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Sehenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Check
Enclosed find Cash to amount of ?..........................................................
Money Order
I enclose self-addressed stamped envelope for return of tickets.
NOTRE DAME STADIUM, SOUTH BEND, IND., NOVEMBER 14, 1925
Name ............................................................................................................................
School................................................................................... Class..,........................
Street Address.................................................................... City...............................
(Please Print Name and Address)
Tho Amount Enclosed I For
.Reserved Soats, $2.50 oach, 50c 
with Student Ticket.
.Railroad Tlckots, $13.92 round 
trip.
.Lower Berths, $9.00 round trip. 
.Upper Berths, $7.50 round trip.
Everybodys Doing ItWhat? Renting a tux or dress suit for that prom or 
fraternity affair. Get in the swim. It's cheaper, just as 
convenient and as satisfactory as owning your own. We 
can fit you perfectlyin a smartly styled, correctly tai
lored outfit. Everybodys doing it. WHY NOT YOU? 
COMPLETE RENTING OUTFITTERS
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
6002-3 JENKINS ARCADE 
Grant 2604
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
Hours: 8:30 to 5:30
I B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
OPTICIANS 
Sehenley Apartments 
4010 FIFTH AVENUE
-y-,;Tsmvxi
cnB4V0ivB;D TOtD OP DnB Ttmy.;b
<SlUmda^(S%ukn^
No well dressed college man is 
without one. Its the original, 
correct slicker and there noth
ing as smart or sensible for 
rough weather and chilly days.
Made of famous yellow water* 
proof oiled fabric. Has all
round strap on collar andela> 
tic at wrist-bands.
Clasp-closing style 
Button-closing style
Stamp the correct name in your 
memory, and buy no other.
The Standard Student" is 
made only by the Standard 
Oiled Clothing Co., N. Y. C.
Slip one on at
ALL GOOD DEALERS
Individuality
in correct attire for 
students.
R. A. PHELLEPS 
Manager
DRESS SUIT 
RENTAL CO.
404 PGH. LIFE 
BUILDING 
Grant 1893 
Res. Phone 
Westview 1659 R
WATCHING OUR OPPONENTS
DREXEL
Drexol..............O1Georgotown_____
Droxel.............. 0Lolilgh ...............
Droxol.............. 0Susquehanna ..
Drexel.............. 0--Johns Hopkins.
NOTRE DAME
No'troDame... .41Baylor ............
Notre Da me.... 69Lombard .......
ivotre Dame... .13--Beloit ............
Notro Dame..... 0Army............
Notro Dame... .19Mmnosota ... 
ST. LOUIS
St. Louis....... 0Iowa ...................
St. Louis-.......2I>Drury ..................
St. Louis...... 0Army ...................
LEHIGH
Lehigh.......... 7Gettysburg ..........
Lolilgh..........18Droxol ...................
Lehigh.......... 3--W. Vn. Won........
Lehigh.......... 7Rutgers ................
CERUTTI IS MADE NEW
MANAGER OF KILTIES
(Contlnuod From Pago, Ono.) 
them and the Alma Matora of the two 
schools Each band Joined note for 
note in Iho dedication of Pittsburghs 
biggest achievement for tho promo 
tlon of athlotlos.
In addition to planning a tlip to St. 
Louis with the football toam, IT It can 
be so nrrange.di Iho Kill,Ion Band havo 
docldod upon an oxtonslvo trip dur
ing lanstern Vacation similar to tho 
ono made last year. Concerts will bo 
given In several of the Carnoglo Clan 
con tors of tho country. In addition 
to these trips many concerts will bo 
given in tho Pittsburgh district after 
the football season Is over. Practice 
Cor these concorts has already begun 
mil the managers state that It Is not 
yet too late to try out for the band.
PROF. H. L. LANG TO GIVE
COURSE IN IND. HYGIENE
(Contlnuod From Pago Ono.) 
moro thorough comprehension of the 
hazards of unimproved factory condi
tions, particularly In respect to tbo 
prevention of Industrial accidents and 
poisonings, and tho spread of occupa
tional diseases, It Is to moot tills 
nood that tho above course has boon 
Institutod.
CARNEGIE WILL
MEET IRISH ON
NOVEMBER 14
(Continued From Page Ono.) 
by prosentlng tho slip from Ills stustudont who can scrape up tho where
withal to make the trip should do so 
for tho good of Carnoglo, tho widen
ing of his acquaintance with the 
alumni, and an everlasting memory 
of one of the best Carnoglo games 
ever played.
University Restaurant
Excellent Food 
Reasonable Prices 
FIRST CLASS SERVICE 
Open Day and Night 
4605 FORBES STREET
Maggie
cTHurph
Beauty'
P arllor*
MARCELLING 
SHAMPOOING AND 
MANICURING
Engagement by appointment 
Sundays and Evenings.
4518 FORBES ST.
Oakland 
Savings & Trust 
Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
The Oakland Bank
Capital-----$300,000.00
Surplus - - - $1500,000.00 
Deposits Over 
$5,000,000.00
Start Your Busi
ness Career Now
A oheoV.InK nrrount with lit! troni{ hnnk IOPVV you n certain prollKO Uml ln fldvftntaflniin. In ixlilltlon II provi!) n knowl*li? of 
(Winin,'Ixl procedura Hint will rvo 
you In i(oo<l nUmd In tho conduct of your hunlnenn nd pontonai affairs.
Ono of Iho out* tndln chnnwtorIf**lew of thlo Inmlttitlon In iho pornonni Inl of Mellon ofloora In 
tho flnnnclnl wolfnra of depositor*.
Capital and Surplus 
$13,500,000.00
While tho varsity are restingafter 
their strenuous encounter with Pitt 
last week, Coach Andersons Plebe 
team will stack up against the highly 
touted eleven from Indiana Normal. 
The gamo will bo played at tho 'fech 
Bowl; kick-off being scheduled at 2:30.
Tho toam from Indiana has thus 
Tar this season made an enviable 
record. Tho Normal students have 
boon mowing down their opponents 
with high scores. This Saturdays 
game is the high light of Plebe sched
ule, and has been giving Coach An
derson no end of worry.
A special ticket has boon placed In 
til student admittance book for the 
Plebe-Indinna game. This ticket is 
labeled event No. 8.
Tho week following: Carnegie will 
meet Drexel Institute at Forbes Field. 
This will bo tho Tartans first appear
ance at tho ball pjirlc this season. Tho 
basoball world sorlos being hold' in 
Pittsburgh, made it impossible for 
Carnogie to play tho first two games 
at Forbos Field. According to present 
plans, tho students will ho seated in 
concrete stands and part of tho grand
stand.
Droxol is coining to Pittsburgh with 
the solo and single thought of debat
ing the Tartans. Tho Philadelphians 
aro boing primed for the Carnoglo 
game and will rlso to their heights 
against Wally Stoffons toam. Droxol 
has ohoson tho Carnoglo trip as ono 
to bo attended by oach and ovory stu
dent. and a capacity crowd Is oxpoctod 
at tho gamo.
A si a. preliminary to the varsity 
game, the Plobos will moot anothor 
foe in Jim Marks Klslcl toam. This 
game will bogln at 12:10.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
STUDENT SUPPLIES 
C. M. STAUFT
FORBES AND BOQUET STS. 
OAKLAND
MENS STYLE SHOP
CONNOR8 & MORRISON 
FORBES 8TREET 
Oakland
LEARN TO DANCE
Jacques School of 
Dancing
CRAIQ AND FORBES STS. 
Boglnneru Monday and Friday 
Evonlngn. Advanced, Thursday 
and Saturday Evonlngn. Privato 
louiionn by appointment.
8ohonloy 3173.
Beilefield Tailoring 
and Cleaning Co.
301 SOUTH CRAIG 8TREET
Tho Bollollold Tailors will pay 
spocial attention to the studonts work.
Phono Mayflower 0883.
HaveYts$ee*a 
this Pm 
Isa Class? 
Parker Pens
in Black (/Gold

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 27. 1925
J*EDITORIAL PAGE
HOW DO YOU GET THAT WAY?Join the Y Today
In an 'investigation of the harpfCH made in a 
letter appearing last week in the Tartan, regard
ing student employment in campus dining halls, it has been found that the actual conditions have 
been badly exaggerated.
The statement was made that students this 
year were not able to obtain work in tho Com
mons and Carnegie Inn. However, it is found 
that the average number of student employes at 
present il! forty, but six less than the average of 
last year. This decrease is caused by tho change 
in the location of the athletic training table which 
formerly was run lj}r the men's cafeteria but is 
now entirely separate.
*To the casual observer the inn and the Com
mons appear as paying propositions, but financial 
statements show that they are run at .a loss. 
This is due to the variance in the number of pa
trons at different meals. The total number 
served this year is about I,lie same as for the cor
responding period last year, EN that the feeble 
crowds mentioned in the letter appear to be er
roneous.
The administration employs as many students 
as posBSle not only because of friendly co-opera
tion but also because of the business advantage of 
having a ready supply of labor for special occa
sions. It is impossible, however, to hire all who
apply. . .Conditions as found indicate that the adminis
tration is in sympathy with the sell! supporting 
students and that the charges made are much too 
severe.
LOYALTY BONDS
Apropos Utopias, we should like to collaborate 
with our contemporary, Mr. Wells, in hi discern
ing penetration of the future, and glance at Car
negie some twenty-live year hence. Carnegie 
with an endowment of $12,000,000 in 1946, a 
beautiful library, a completed Arts Building, a 
stadium and hundreds of other trappings of the 
modern educational institutionwould be fluite 
the greatest school in the world.
But Utopia, are not to be easily plucked In
spiration deploye sea ailes, etc., etc., only after 
thought and action. The Carnegie Corporation 
asks that $4,000,000 bo raised by the school by 
194(5. Carnegie alumni havo responded by Loy
alty Bonds."
Loyalty Bond holders arc paying $.10 per year 
for 10 years to Carnegie. This pays all alumni 
dues, fees and obligations, and helps to raise tho 
much coveted $4,000,00.0. This is a plea for 
alumni to invest in Carnegies future. Mr. 
Porters letter on tho first page tolls all the neces
sary antecedent action. Carnogie needs tho 100 
per cent backing of its alumni now, lost our 
dreams fade.
Y. M. C. A. DRIVE
Tho Y. M. C A. launches a drive for member
ship this week that should go so far over Iho top 
that financial concerns will not havo to bo given a 
thought during tho rest ol! tho year. This 
organization is so muoh a part ol Carnegie that it 
is impossible to visualize our school without its 
activities. Tho Y contributes liberally to our 
every-day lifo at school; this contribution is ono 
ol! helpful good inlluenee. Studonts are askod to 
express their appreciation of and interest in tho 
Y by a dollar and cents backing; it deserves 
our unqualified support.
NEVER SAY DIE
The I ill gamo is over. Wo lost! We are dis
appointed, of course, but we shall recover from 
our sorrow. We are neither sadder nor wiser. 
Our defeat is no disgrace and since we should be 
proud that Iill, rather than any other school, 
wrested a game from our eleven, wo now pray 
that the Panther may pummel its other opponents 
more thoroughly than it pommeled us.
We congratulate you, Pitt. May you gain 
many more victories as decisive as your last. But 
we dont feel a bit humble. There is noxt year 
and the year after that. We hope that our re
lations may remain friendly, more friendly than 
during the last contest, and that our students 
will refrain from throwing milk bottles at those 
Pitt men who have such poor taste as to cheer 
their Alma Mater offensively on our campus. 
And vice versa.
The spirit of the Blue and Gold is ascending 
with its football team. But when it can be said 
that the spirit of Carnegie is second to that of 
Pitt, to that of any college, then we shall be truly 
humble.
May that time never come even if we must re
move all milk bottles from the c a nip us.
Y.M.C.A
- COW IM  TT ITOCRMAH Ji
Studenta chccks are being cashed at the Y. M. C. A. office, at the rate of $1,000 each 
banking day. Are you using this service? Banking hours are from 11:30 to 1:30, Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday ;it the "Y" officc, Room 124. Industries._____________________________________
RAIN
We went to the game Saturday. After thoroughly ex
ecrating the Swiss engineer who gave so Alpine a 
touch to tho Pitt campus we reached a distant gate, 
breathless and muddy. Stmugoly enough, wo had not
forgotten our tickets and a mathematically inclined 
UHher directed* us"Forty-two rows down!
The scuts wore wet with rain that collected In 
streaks, but a l'at newspaper prevented osmosis and 
our subsequent discomfiture. Everyone was standing 
upon our arrival, and explained, when we asked, that 
tho dedication ceremonies were under way. By way of 
confirmation two rows of It. O. T. C. with the band be
tween were pointed out at tho far side of the field.
The speakers were as invisible as they were inaudi
ble ho wo remained in polite silence, eating chocolate, 
until tho cheerleaders assured us that it would bo 
proper to sit down. The R. O. T. C. disappeared mys
tically and the flag was hoisted as half a battery of ar
tillery shot a twenty-gun salute.
This was unquestionably the most enjoyable event 
of tho day. A flash, a roar that would rush with a 
howling "whr-whr-whr about the Stadium, and a cloud 
of smoke., And then tho same all over again. Wo wish 
they could flnd occasion to Are salutOB more often.
Pitt clieorod, wo cheerod. Bands played. President 
Baker and tho Hon. 6tophon Ii. Porter waded across 
tho Hold with tholr Cortege while the students sang 
The Kilties Are Coming. What claim to glory, in
deed, may a college president establish on a day like 
this unless he bo an ex-All American quarterback?
Then the teams appeared and tho stands choorod In 
ii mad frenzy to outdo ouch other. Even tho rain came 
down hardor. But who cared about rain, about cold, 
about anything except tho warriors struggling in the 
imnl. A gain, a loss, an ond run which eluded its in
terference blit not. the enemy, a lino buck against a 
wall of muscle. Little "Oils" and ''Alls, cheers and 
sighs, Yob, Carnegie, down Pitt," monotonous pleas 
to "got that ball, hoarse demands to "hold that, line." 
Thou a suddon spurt, two men running madly down the 
Hold. Tho biiokflold rushes wildly toward one, tho ball 
flies Into tho waiting arms of the other, a despairing 
chase. Thon a touchdown.
Tho Pitt stands are In an uproar. Wo are crushed 
for a moment. Tho band strikes up "Dear Old Tech," 
and wo slag lustily to regain our courage. Another 
quarter winds on and the Plaid machine slowly batters 
down Hit foe. The Tartan marches to tho shadow (al
legorical) of the Panther's goal and then, like a florco 
wind which has been tugging at some helpless bush, 
suddenly rents and tho bush rearranges itself in the 
lull. And thus the half ended.
During tho Intermission red tissue napkins are dis
tributed and after much unllstewed to explanation a 
huge P of white handkerchiefs In a crimson field is 
formed. Pitt applauds. Tho participants aro bewild
ered because they havo been powdering their noses or 
lighting olgurots during the explanation. Tho atten
tive tow become irate and bellow at their confused 
neighbors not. bo so goddam dumb.
The teams reappear unexpectedly during all those 
hectic demonstrations and the red napkinsaro hastily 
rolled Into wads. Everyone who has ever thrown a 
baseball now earnestly strives to sock the individual 
several rows ahead of him In the back of the neck with 
his scarlet missile.
More cheers, more groans. The expected rally does 
not materialize. Wally tramps up and down the side
lines but the Panther only scowls and marches on. 
Tho more wo lose the more we cheer. We yell; we 
are hoarse; we huddle in our seats with our collars up 
to discourage inquisitive raindrops.
A fumble or a penalty; we hang on grimly. Now and 
then a man goes down into the mud and must be helped 
to his feet. Our efforts seem so futile, so puny. We 
thrust our hands deeply into damp coat pockets and 
shout frantic encouragement.
We must break through. But the Panther is inex
orable in his advance. Again he crosses the Plaid goal. 
We bellow forth courage and confidence, but our spirit 
is oozing out through damp shoes as the rain creeps in. 
Already, discouraged rooters are leaving.
But we will be cheerful. In defeat as well as in vic
tory Carnegie spirit must bear on. Hoarsely we yell a 
few more times. A silent youth nearby  opens liis 
mofith for the first time during the game and aslcs: 
"Aint the spirit rotten? We strive to disprove his 
remark. Then the game is over.
The strain has been too much. We break and run 
for the gates. Across the field a solid student body is 
singing the Pitt Alma Mater. We retreat from the 
scone like a dog with his tail between his legs.
Faculty and Students to Alternate in 
Having Charge of Weekly Assemblies
A spocial commit,too appointed by 
tho Exeoutlvo Board to consider tho 
question of Generad Assemblies has 
made the following recommendations, 
which wero approved by the Board on 
Septcmbor 28i\d, tho plan becoming 
offectlvo immediately;
The committee recommends that 
one-lialf of tho Tuesday assemblies bo 
placed at the disposal of tho President 
or Directors of tho several colleges, 
and the other half at the disposal of 
the Student Council for meetings, or 
as free periods.
It is further recommended that the 
calendar as shown below be put im
mediately into effect for the first 
semester, a calendar for the second 
semester to be set up later.
It is understood that the assemblies 
listed below as being assigned to the 
faculties shall be available for the 
President or for the Directors, as ar
ranged In advaneo, and that If Direc
tor Day holds a freshman aasombly 
tho other Directors may arrange as
semblies or departmental mootings 
for the three upper classes; If desired, 
otherwise tho hour becomes a free 
pried.
It Is also understood that, the as
semblies listed below as'being as
signed to the students -canbo either 
general assemblies or divisional as
semblies, or free periods, as the Stu
dent Council may elect.
All assemblies to be hold' on tho 
campus, if possible, the pla*ce to bo an
nounced in advance.
Programs for the faculty assemblies 
to be prepared by the president or di
rectors, and for the Student Council 
assemblies by the joint activities com
mittee of the Student Council and the 
Executive Board.
Should the faculty not desire to 
make use of any assembly period as
signed to it, the Student Council may
request, that period, the faculty to 
havo tho same privilege.
September 22Faculty.
September 2!)Student Council,
Octobor 0Facu 1 ty.
October 13Student Council. 
October 20-r-Faculty,
October 27Student Council. 
November 8Faculty.
November 10 Student Council. 
November 17- Faculty.
November 2-1 -Student Council. 
December 1Faculty.
December 8Student Council. 
December 1RFaculty.
January 5Student Council. 
January 12Faculty.
January 15)Student Council. 
January 26Examination Weekassomblies.
Insects on House Plants
There nre many sorts of insects af
fecting house plants, and roses In par
ticular, mainly sucking insects. They 
are controlled by sousing or dipping 
the plants in tobacco preparations and 
strong soap suds. Several sousings are 
usually necessary at intervals of a few 
days.
Arts Theater
THE ASSUMPTION OF HANNELE
The drama department presented 
last week, under the direction of Ches
ter Wallace, The Assumption of I-Iannele, a dream play by Gerlmrdt 
Hauptmann. The story is so simple 
that it has been doubted whether it 
can truthfully be called a play, rather, 
it is a psychological study of a dying 
child.
Hannele attempts to drown herself 
as an escape from the treatment ac
corded her by her bibulous foster 
father. She is watched over and 
cared for by the village school mas
ter and a sister of mercy; and because 
this 1b the first kindness she has 
known, she glorifies them in her dy
ing delerium, Identifying the teacher 
as her personal Christ who loads her 
to tho heaven of her dreams.
Tho dramatic quality of t\ie play is 
derived from tho contrast instead of 
struggle; the beauty of tho childs 
imagination against tho sordidness of 
tho other paupers, tho brutality of her 
father against the gentleness of tho 
teacher, tho realism of tho actual 
against the roinanco of the dream.
Technically tho staging of tho play 
Is most difficult. Apparitions aro re
quired to appear and disappear con
tinually; angels havo to mutorializo 
out of tho darkness; and every now 
and then a shaft of .celestial light falls 
upon the stage. Somo of thoso de
vices aro effoct.lvo, otliors are not so 
lonvlnclng; and tho audience is never 
absolutely sure Just when Hannele is 
awake and when dreaming.
For instance, in the scono whore 
she Is drossod in Bilk and laid in a 
crystal coffin, and her stopfatlior con
founded us an act of divine retribu
tion, the presentation is so real that 
one Is lead to bellve that tho incident 
actually occurs. Immediately after, 
tho "stairs to heaven are seen, and 
although there is no doubt that this 
represents the last gasp of her de
lerium, they look so like a Kaufman 
window at Christmas that, while tli8 
effect is achieved, it seems after an, 
not worth achieving.
As Hennele, Virgina Williams gave 
a very careful and convincing study. 
Joe Wadsworth, as Gottwald, the 
school master, was gentle and Christlike in liis interpetatton. and appear
ance, albiet a little too sing-song at 
times, especially in his description of 
heaven.
Mary Jennings was a calm and con
torting Sister Martha, if  anything a 
bit too calm, and unvaried to the point 
of occasional monotony. Hardie Al
bright was much too theatrical in tho 
part of the father; his conception of 
drunken brutality was not nearly as 
effective as his remarkable make-up. 
Of the smaller parts Don Willson de
serves mention for his playing of the 
fantastic dream tailor, and Ben Ford 
as Doctor Wachler.
Business Text
"Printers Ink," says the Tlfton Ga
zette, makes nierchilndlse move faster 
than any other agency. The public 
today looks for the printed message 
because It Is the easiest, the best and 
the modern way of selling and telling."
5
PAIRS of PURE 1 <J> 
SILK HOSIERY 1>P
($10.00 Vnlue)
A few mluut.es time and very littlo offortjust to help us adver
tise our Thread Silk Hosiery, 
and we make you the above of
fer. Very simple plan. Do your 
friends a good turn by Introduc
ing the Dolito plan to them. 
Write today for details of the 
plan that saves money on guar
anteed Pure Thread Silk Full 
Fashioned Hose.
DELITE SALES CO.
Miss Gladys Reynolds 
Practice House, Woodlawn Ave.
807 Standard Life Building 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
The Week 
in the 
Worlds News
LESLIE P. BEEBE
THE WEEK IN THE WORLD'S 
NEWS
Supply and Demand, the old hack
neyed phrase and yet immoveably 
true, has simply been wiped off the 
slate of principles if we are to accept 
the doctrines of the American Feder
ation of Labor as put forth at their 
convention at Atlantic City. The dec
larations can be rediiced to two:
a.A universal eight-hour day.
b.Increased wages with the in
crease of output.
In other words, as the country or 
the individual factory increases its 
output by better management, by im
proved processes, or by better meth
ods of the utilization of capital, by so 
much will the workers demand in
creased or shorter hours. As each 
factory tries to cut the cost the costs 
will be increased! hy the increased de
mands of the laborers.
Labor organizations decry the econ
omist for hi very theoretical ap
proach to the. problems of the world 
and his lack of practical knowledge 
but at the same time they sidestep 
basic principles. Wages are the re
sult of a large number of factors, 
such as the relative number of wage 
earners to the positions or the stand
ard of living. A man out of a job 
will talce what he can get regardless 
of all the resolutions in the ^orld. In 
such cases the demands of the Ameri
can Federation amount to naught.
What the A. F. of L. needs is 
brains. The guiding men of any or
ganization should be able to see 
principles where the rest only see 
details, far-sighted where the major
ity see only close-up's. As the Com
mercial and Financial Chronicle so 
aptly put it: "In any event, it will be 
the intensity of competition, foreign 
as well as domestic), and the ability to 
get adequate selling prices that will 
determine the question rather than 
the resolution of the labor body.
In other Cordis they have complete
ly overlooked the real determinant of 
wages and are like the dog with the 
can tied to its tail "bellowing at themoon! 
BATS, MOSrQUITOS AND DOLLARS
Free Organ Recital
The entire program for Dr. I-Ieinroths Free Organ Recital in Carnegie 
Music Hall on Saturday night, Octo
ber 81st, at 8:15 oclock, will be made 
up of music by Tchaikovsky, the groat 
Russian composer.
The program follows:
1. Overture Solenelle, "The Year
1812 ......................Tchaikovsky
2. Andante Cantabile from Fifth
Symphony .............Tchaikovsky
8. Humoroske ................Tchaikovsky
1. a. Overture from
b. Danse do la Fee Dragee
c. Danse Arabe, "Nutcracker
Sutto .................Tchaikovsky
d. Valse des Fleurs.
f>. Adagio Lamentoso from "Sym
phony Pathetlque. Tchaikovsky 
(!. Intermezzo from Orchestral
S'uite, Opus 18 -----Tchaikovsky
7. Marche Slave, Op. 81.Tchaikovsky
JUST as vege
tables direct 
from the garden 
are freshet and 
more delicious.
Braeburn Farms 
Milk delivered at 
your doorstep 24 
hours sooner, is 
fresher, more pal
atable. keeps 
longer.
A Trial Convinces
oeCLoReE 
FARMS NGAd
"24 hours fresher* 
Hermes-Groves Dairy Co. 
Telephone Grant 6900
Would you consider bats a vital ele
ment in any community? In Texas 
the bat is protected by law. This is 
In recognition of the work done by 
Charles A. R. Campbell, who has 
found that the bat is one of mans 
best friends, since it subsists almost 
entirely upon the malaria mosquito.
Dr. Campbell was the first to build 
bat roosts and shelters, though they 
can be found in many parts of the 
world. These roosts are the breeding 
places of the bat families, and are 
self-sustaining, as well as decidedly 
humane. The guano, which is pro
duced, is one of the best fertilizers 
known, and always brings a high price 
In the market.
The mosquito may also be combated 
with the aid of dragon flies, by help
ing the latter to breed in protected
places away from the molestation of 
fish and birds. Malaria mosquitoes 
must be eliminated through methods 
which are the least costly, and this 
is most easily done by using the 
means nature ha3 already provided.
Man is a gregarious creature, and 
the prevention of diseases becomes, 
with him, a permanent issue. All 
known measures, whether temporary 
or permanent, cost a great deal of 
money. Yet the prevention of disease 
does pay, no matter what the cost.. 
Consequently guano producing bat 
houses are a money making and 
health preserving asset to any mala
rial community.
A volume has recently appeared,, 
incorporating the details of Dr. 
Campbells work, bearing the rather 
wierd title, Bats, Mosquitoes and Dol
lars, which, if taken Beriously, may 
prove an important contribution to 
humanity.
Exceptionally good service 
offered fraternity houses.
eS4LEoCRN
Sixth, Liberty and PennPittsburgh, Pa.
Let it be stylelet it be qualitylet it be 
valueor just let it be a new suit or over
coat in the feature group we are showing at 
$40.
Mens ShopFourth Floor.
EMTS 
CTHHOVB1BL 4TDS.
/^MjETTER find out whether 
you are expected to 
wear your costume all 
evening, or whether every 
one will unmask and wear 
regular clothes later on.
At any rate, now is the time 
to think of new clothes for 
Fall and Winter.
EDWARD CLOTHES 
 "Made for You
are just the kind you want to 
wear. They are made of allwool fabricsby expert tai
lorsaccording to the latest 
style dictates.
Suits : Topcoats 
Overcoats : Tuxedos
Q875 and *3875
Two prices only
Knickers arc just the thing 
to wear right nowprices
#8?5 and}J275
in imported and domestic fabrics
The Edward Tailoring Co., inc.
PHILADELPHIA
WE DISPLAY AT 
COLLEGE SHOP"SQUAWK TAYLOR, 
4618/z FORBES STREET, Exclusive Agent.
CARNEGI N WLMNTS TMNES 
HTEMLLHOMTE VHMWM B1 4BD.U P
T
HE professor continues, "Perhaps other papers 
were equally intelligent, but their merit was 
obscured by illegible penmanship. If everybody 
would learn to use a portable typewriter, it would 
save your time and mine and relieve me from the 
drudgery of reading longhand."
Neat, legible, typewritten manuscript keeps the 
"profs" in perfect "reading humor." And perfect 
"readinghumor" tends to mean better marks. Then 
too, a writing machine for your personal use is 
helpful in compiling your notes, and in writing 
those letters home.
The New Remington Portable is preferred by 
students because it is the lightest, smallest, and Vrice, complete - 
most compact of all standard keyboard portables. with case, $60
We will gladly show you this machine and ex
plain our easy payment plan.
Standard Typewriter Co.
Atlantic 0342
Corona Corner 
129 FIFTH AVENUE
cNewRemington Tortahle
