CHARLES C. LLtDS,
Assistant to Head of School of Apprentices and 
, Journeymenn.
Published Weekly By 
Students Of The Carnegie Technical Schools.
icience
Publis hh 
elidsW kkkAPRIL 29, 1908yBu SubbtWn Ofs TstW 
ysC asCOn Ofs aurg

---------------------------------------------------

4* 4*%04-%04-*04*%04-*04*%04*%04'*04>%04-*04-%04'+
Turn to your right, turn to your left, no 
matter which way you look on most any street, 
you will always spy some kind of a store 
handling shirts and neckwear.
4*0\4*0\40\4*0\4v\4*0\4*0VI0\*0\4>0\4*0\4*0\
But the real new and exclusive patterns is 
what you want, made expressly for up-to-date 
exclusive Haberdashers.
with corn color tie: 
here in this store
Bell Phone 655-J Schenley Open Evenings
CH Cater Particularly to the Particular Mans Tradi
For instance: the new corn colored shirts 0
to match are shown right
IROQUOIS BLOCK'
Oakland Hatter and Haberdasher g
wDirectly Opposite the new Oakland Natitorium C
Plione and Mail Orders Promptly Attended To 4*
fi 4*?
PENN AND SHERIDAN AVES., EAST END 
^ Second FloorMoreland Block
 THE COLUMBIA
Strictly High Class Billiard Hall 
.Tames B. Crookston, Prop.
?H
>
t?
TWTV1 TVWTvTyWwWTVWVWWTyWTVTVTy 0 0 t Eat, Drink and be Merry ^
I* at the corner of Dithridge and Forbes, where 4 
the best of tobacco, soft drinks, candy, cakes, j? 
etc., are to be had. 
4O4O4>04t04>04>04>O4a0404,0404,04,04>04a0404>04>04>
MARRIS CORNER STORE
0\0\0\0\0*0\0%0\0*0\O%0%O\0V>\0Y0\0*
0X0S0?0*0*0*0*0X0?
$0
ARE YOU ON
TO THE FACT
That the Aspinwall Boat Club has opened * 
for the season with a full line of Row Boats g 
and Canoes for hire. Finest and largest 
Boat Iyivery on the Allegheny. First class 
accommodations *guaranteed ?
CCCCCCHARLES HRRE RHCCCCCCC
EASTERN AVENUE, ASPINWALL
Opposite Highland Park
Special Rates by Day or Week
K>S4<*'V40\*O\*0VI-0%4O\40\4*0\4*0\4*0\4*0*\0\0\0N0\0*0*0V>\0%0\0\0%0\0\0*0\0\0
4<4.O4,O4<*4*,:>4*04,0404,04<>4,04,04,04<>4,04,04,04,C!,04<>4,04<>404,04<>404,04,04,04,04,04,04,04,04,04,04,0st 4*0s5 S t 
%01 1*Preparatory, Electrical, Engineering, |
Drafting, Commercial and *
Stenographic Department |
AN ESPECIALLY STRONG COURSE IN MATHEMATICS ti OPEN ALL SUMMER I
0 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- . *
Students Prepared for Admission to Colleges and Technical Schools f
ip ' -----Call, Write or Telephone for Terms----- $
* 204 Sixth Street 254 Fifth Avenue |
4* And Opposite Post Office, Allegheny &
MARTIN JENNINGS CATON, L.L.D. President
*0
I10t
I
i
1
*
Hi

---------------------------------------------------

TEN CENTSVOL. TT, No. 30 PITTSBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY, APRIL 29, 1908
TECH TAKES FIRST PLACE IN ANNUAL RELAY RACES
On Saturday, April 25, the annual meet under 
the auspices of the University of Pennsylvania at 
Philadelphia was held. The weather was rather un
settled with an occasional shower or two, but the 
crowd was estimated at ten thousand people. This 
athletic meet bids fair to become to the United State's 
what the Olympic Games are to Europe, and interest 
is growing larger each year.
The Tech Team left Pittsburg on Thursday
evening and consisted of Dowling, Charles, Ross,
Halferty and Bates accompanied by Coach Thompson.
Bates was taken along as extra man but it was
a toss up between him and Charles as to who was
the better man. However, as Charles time for the
race was the fastest of the four it will be seen
that Coach Thompson acted wisely in allowingi
Charles to run. Tech was put in the same class 
with W. & J., W. U. P., Villa Nova, and a number 
of other schools; this classification being made on 
the basis of the number of students engaged in 
athletics. None of the minor schools competed and 
Tech was left to fight it out with W. & J. and 
W. U. P.
The first man to run for Tech was Halferty, 
who has been the speediest runner in the trials;
while W. U. P. put in their best man in the person 
of Banbury. Halferty had no trouble in leading this 
quarter and gave Ross a good lead. The lead was 
maintained though Charles and Dowling finished 
an easy winner. Our men could undoubtedly have cut 
down the time of 3:37 if they had been pushed, but 
greater speed was not necessary. The members of 
the relay team who competed were presented with 
handsome gold watches, having the name and date 
of the meet together with the list of schools in 
their class engraved on the case. The team also 
brought back a banner for the trophy room, while 
the W. U. P. team was given a silver cup which 
was the second prize.
Thus we see that Tech is fast beginning to take 
a place in sport of a national importance and this 
victory should rouse every student to the necessity 
of giving all his spare time to stirring up interest 
in athletics or to cominng out for the variouss teams. 
By winning this event we have undoubtedly taken 
a place and attracted considerable notice among the 
schools and colleges of America. Captain Dowling 
hopes to win from W. U. P. in a dual meet to be held 
soon, and if any good men at the weights will come 
out and try to strengthen Tech in this branch we 
will have little difficulty in winning.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
^OOOOOC*OOOOv0<HX0OOO0C^O0000O000Ce^>O
1 NIGHTNINETEEN TEN |I NINETEEN TWELVE I
C^OC<M>.C<>CM>0O.^C^O0iC^0<C|00COOO^00:00^C^C8^Ov 
J. H. Taxis, Editor.
The third annual banquet of the Class of 1910 
was held on Saturday evening at The Rittenhouse. 
To say it was a success would be putting it mildly; 
from 8.30 until 12 oclock good fellowship, brilliant 
speeches and jollity was the order. Every one had 
something to say, and nothing was said to give offense 
to any one.
Messrs. Hower, Lowe, and Bassett represented 
the faculty and pleased the boys with their talks. 
Considine proved an excellent toastmaster and his 
stories were, as usual, well selected and ably told. 
Summers humor was on top and flowed freely, as was 
also Newcomers, Burgess and Romehieds. D. K. 
Reid reminded us of the approach of Sunday morning 
in a well told Scotch tale. The hint conveyed by its 
Scottish humor was taken, and after singing the Alma 
Mater, good-nights were said, accompanied by hand
clasps that spoke well for the class spirit and fellow
ship among the boys. The principal speakers were 
Professors Hower, Lowe, Bassett and Messrs. Consi
dine, Skeehan, Smith, Crete, and Taxis.
A tennis tournament for the championship of 
Theta Beta Psi, is being arranged, to be played on 
the fraternitys courts in Oakland and Wilkinsburg. 
In the opening match, Taxis and Ftfank, meet New
comer and George, and as these teams are evenly 
paired, some good tennis is expected.
That good judgment was displayed in selecting 
the track team was manifested by the results of Sat
urdays contest in Philadelphia, when our boys led 
W. U. P. and W. & J. in the mile relay race. Capt. 
Halferty deserves the thanks of the entire school for 
his good work and 1910 takes this opportunity of 
showing its appreciation for what he and the rest of 
the team accomplished.
---------o---------
A & JNIGHT.
McKinleyWhat is the plural of child?
KirkTwins.
The Tartan has received the announcement of the 
marriage of Messrs. Condon and Wilharm, of Machine 
work department.
DONT FORGET SATURDAY NIGHT. THE BIG 
BANQUET. ALL ARE INVITED.
J. Le Roy Hoffman, Editor. 
THE BANQUET.
The first annual banquet of the Class of 1912 was 
held in the Louis XV. room of the Nixon Restaurant 
last Thursday evening, forty-five men\Ders of the class 
being present.
Mr. Sample, our able secretary, was toastmaster, 
and among those who responded were Mr. Leete, rep
resenting the faculty, and Prof. Hokanson, who re
sponded with an address in every way characteristic 
of him. Of course he managed to work his pet ex
pression, so to say in. Mr. Aude and Mr. Frazer 
gave us Math, Mr. Aude presenting a few novel prob
lems in that puzzling quantity, X, hinting that per
haps some of the absent ones were trying to solve it 
in the ball-room. Mr. Frazer gave us some unique 
views of proportion and showed whereby some col 
lege graduates, although a successa howling suc
cessat school were miserable failures in their busi
ness or professional careers. They were not propor
tioned right. Our president responded to the toast, 
Our Class, and showed by his remarks that he 
knows his class as well as he does his Chemistry 
or Physicsperhaps better. Ralph Leety, the cap
tain of Techs basket-ball team, responded to Ath
letics and spoke as if he knew something about his 
subject(he does). Mr. McTurk andd Mr. Ryman 
represented their classmates and both responded in 
a manner both interesting and amusing.
At Clemson University over fifty students have 
been expelled for cutting classes on All Fools Day, 
and over three hundred students have struck.
S|I
I
I
3Dc Tou Enow
that we print more hooks than any firm in the East End ?...........................
IDo To-u. 2Zxxo-w
that our Programs, Topic Cards and Leaflets elicit the admiration of lovers of Fine Printing ?..................................................
X5o Tom 33Iia.o-w
that we are prompt, and that an order for a dollar receives as much care and attention as one for a hundred dollars? .
If you are fastidious, if you require prompt and efficient service, come to .
A movement is on foot among Eastern colleges to 
reduce the number of foot-ball games. It Is said that 
Harvard will reduce her schedule to two games.
SF-A-Hia <Sc EITSCHEE,
6117-6119 Kirkwood Street.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
Fraternity Pins, Class Pins, Badges, Prize Cups, Fine Tools
HEEREN BROS. &CO. MMACTIfflG JEWELERS and SILVERSMITHS.
co..R.e BUhLSheG, P.ee AP.. & 8yo Sy.cccc
Ws tWs Ofs MtksWn uf Ofs atWCsgis yscf. Scfuub PiCn
NEW TECH TEXT BOOK.
The latest addition to the Carnegie Technical 
Schools Text Book Series has arrived in the shape 
of a new and comprehensive work on Mechanical 
Drawing for Trade Schools, by Mr. Chas. C. Leeds. 
The book is well gotten up and is receiving much 
favorable comment. It is designed to prepare High 
School students to pass the examinations required 
for admission to Technical Schools, and to enable 
High School graduates to earn his living as a tracer 
or detail draftsman.
---------o---------
From the earliest times in the history of watch
making it has been the custom of watchmakers to 
reduce fresh bread to the form of dough. This is 
done by steaming and kneading. They then use 
this dough for removng oil and chips that naturally 
adhere, in the course of manufacture, to pieces as 
small as a part of a watch. There are many parts 
of a watch, by the way, that are so small as to be 
barely visible to the naked eye. The oil is absorbed 
by this dough, and the chips stick to it, and there 
is no other known substance which can be used 
as a wiper without leaving some of its particles at
tached to the thing wiped.
---------o---------
According to a recent German compilation of 
statistics the Worlds total mileage of railroads now 
totals 564,000 miles, of which the United States has
216,000 and Europe 192,000the mileage of this 
country thus exceeding that of combined Europe by 
about 24,000. More than one-half of the total mileage 
of the world is estimated to be upon the American 
continent. These figures, as great as they are, will 
be materially increased with the contemplated rail 
laying of the next five years.
EXHIBITION TO-MORROW NIGHT.
A public exhibition will be held at the schools 
to-morrow night and an opportunity for the inspection 
of laboratories and shop will be afforded the visitors. 
It is expected that a large number of people will at
tend, as nearly five thousand invitations were mailed.
---------o---------
BAND DOING WELL.
A band, the latest musical enterprise of the 
school, is making rapid strides in the direction of a 
first-class up-to-date musical organization. Through 
the kindness of the S. Hamilton Company, the school 
has been presented with eighteen instruments, which 
will be loaned to the men during their connection 
with the organization. About twenty fellows have 
reported for rehearsal, and it is hoped that at least 
thirty men will take an active interest.
---------o---------
Work on the grounds and buildings of this 
exposition, which is to be held from June to October, 
1909, at Seattle, Wash., is reported to be well under 
way. Contracts have been let for the construction of 
five large buildings and several smaller ones. 
Among these are the Manufacturers Building, Agri
cultural Building, Auditorium, Palace of Fine Arts 
and Machinery. Hall. The three latter buildings 
will be permanent structures. The purpose of the 
exposition, which is to exploit Alaska and Yukon, 
and the countries bordering on the Pacific Ocean, is 
receiving considerable favorable comment.
From the interest displayed by manufacturers 
and officials the exposition is one likely to be highly 
successful and widespread in its results. Its loca
tion is expected to draw a large attendance.
L HLtRDS ,si aRno eLEEsn tLosS
COURT DERBY
TECH-NEGIE
Proper headwear for all occasions, 
Silk and Opera, Derbies, soft hats and 
caps. The best kinds of both foreign 
and domestic manufacture. Write for 
our style book.
TECH-M0NT
0tto Getting
Fifth and Wylie Seventh and Smithfield

---------------------------------------------------

GTH TARTAN
BASEBALL TEAM TAKES A BRACE.
On Saturday last, while all eyes were on the 
Relay Team at Philadelphia, the baseball team was 
doing things at Grove City. The difference in the 
playing is as great as day from night and if all 
games hereafter are played with the snap and 
vim which characterized last Saturdays contest we 
may expect to see a winning team. The game was 
the first of the Western Pennsylvania Intercollgiate 
series which is to be played by the local college 
teams of this vicinity. The second game takes 
place today at Exposition Park.
The following is the story of the game.
Grove City scored in the first inning. North 
walked. Masson hit and on Hartwells sacrifice and 
Kingsleys hit both scored. Beckwith walked, a 
passed ball advanced each and Kingsley scored on 
a fielders choice.
Neudorfer opened the second inning with a hit. 
Hittner was hit by the pitcher and Slocum walked. A 
run was forced over when Barclay walked.
Grove City scored in the third on Hartwells 
hit, an error by McKinley and an out, Hartwell mak
ing the score. Tech scored in the sixth. Hittner 
got on by an error, stole second and scored on 
Kirks hit.
Grove City tallied again in the seventh. Burgum 
allowed North to reach first by an error and Hittner 
put him on second by another error. He tallied on 
an infield out. In the eighth Tech tallied, Slocum 
and Kirk hit in succession, a base on balls and an 
error followed, Slocum scoring.
Tech scored in the ninth with two out. Me 
Kinley hit and sprinted home on Hartwells error. 
Score:
GROVE CITY.R.H.P.A.E.
H Brown, s............................. 11012
North, c ................................. 201400
Hartwell, 2.............................. 12222
Kingsley, 1............................. 11000
Bechwith, r ............................ 00000
McCurdy, 3............................. 011QO0
Marks, 1 ................................. 00710
Miller, m ................................ 00200
Weigle, p ............................... 00100
Totals.............................. 552774
TECH.R.H.P.A.E.
Barclay, c .............................. 00600
Burgum, s ............................00111
Lytle, 1 ................................... 0,0100
McKinley, 1 ............................ 12911
Neudorfer, m.......................... 12100
Hittner, 3 .............................. 10012
Slocum, r ............................... 11100
Kirk, 2 ..................................... 02511
Burnside, p............................. 000>0
Totals............................... 472475
! P. Ludebuehl & Son i
 <>8 aUSyOM A
* FhyyheG R
| SoO.S L
8 sL S5.00 S4.00 S3.50 gg g
 PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVES. *
8 C .tnO .Cd t
# yV>\OV>\CA*\0\\0\0\0\0\0*0*0*0*0*0*0'
Grove City ................... 3 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 *5
Tech ............................... 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 1 14
Sacrific hitBeckwith. Stolen basesHartwell
3, Kingsley 2, Beckwith, McCurdy 2, Hittner, Kirk. 
Struck outBy Weigle 14, by Burnsides 5. First 
base on ballsOff Weigle 3, off Burnsides 2. Hit 
by pitched ballBy Weigle 2. UmpireFrew. 
---------o---------
^Ibe ZTartan Calendar
Wednesday, April 29.
BASEBALL GAME WITH WUP. AT EXPO. PARK.
Thursday, April 30.
FOUNDERS DAY.
BASEBALL PRACTICE.
PUBLIC INSPECTION OF SCHOOLS, 8.00 P. M.
Friday, May 1. 
BASEBALL PRACTICE.
Saturday, May 2.
TECH VS. W. & J. AT THE NEW TECH GROUNDS 
IN OAKLAND. ,
Monday, May 4. 
BASEBALL PRACTICE.
Tuesday, May 5.
BASEBALL PRACTICE.
NOTICE.
No Season Tickets will be sold after May 2 for 
less than two dollars. These tickets are good for 
twelve home games and are on sale at the store
room.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
000000000000000000000000000000000000
1 M. M. C. S. |
o o0000000000000000000000.00000000000000
Miss Mabel Corbould, 09...................Editor-in-Chief
Miss* Frances Looney, 09...............Business Manager
On Friday Mr. Leeds addressed the girls for a few 
minutes in behalf of the boys athletic associatioon. 
We repeat for the benefit of those who were absent, 
that the boys are having an enclosed field prepared 
for this season's games opposite the Schenley Hotel. 
Season tickets entitling one to all home games, twelve 
in number, are only $2.00. These tickets can be ob
tained at the store room of the boys school; every 
girl is asked to support the boys athletics by buying 
a season ticket, and by their presence at these games 
cheering the boys on to do good work for the glory of 
Tech.
A very interesting lecture was given by Mrs. L. 
A. Mead on the most important public question be
fore the world to-day, namely, International Peace. 
Her arguments for peace were very strong, and if 
four things can be presented to and taken up by Con
gress, namely:
1. The Peace Budget. This is an agreement to 
invest one dollar for preparation for peace where one 
thousand are invested to prepare for war.
2. Arbitration.
3. Neutralization, a pledge from all nations not 
to attack the possessions of other nations.
4. Ostracism, an agreement between say three 
great nations to withdraw their statesmen and com
merce from any nation refusing to arDitrate.
International war may be gotten rid of without a 
change of human nature by getting rid of the preventatives of war, the Army and Navy.
A militia to maintain law and order, and a police 
force to bring the wrong doer to a court of justice are 
different things to rival armies and navies.
The police use a minimum force, while war uses 
the maximum of power.
Justice is necessary, but this is not aimed at by 
war. The only way to obtain true justice is by a 
world organization. Simultaneous disarmament was 
not possible, but a substitute for war was settled upon 
at the Hague Conference of 1899, when a Court of Ar
bitration was formed.
This court has been successful in averting more 
than one war already, and at the next Hague Confer
ence it is to be hoped all the nations will piedge them
selves to arbitrate every question, especially those of 
so-called honor. Some countries have made this 
pledge.
Will every girl make it her duty to look at the 
marks on the walls of the stair cases, and in future 
do all she can to prevent such disfigurements? Surely 
every girl feels such pride in the beautiful new buildO\0VO*O*O*O\0\O\O\0SO\O\O\O\O\O\O\O*o / 0* 
? o *o* 0*0
o* 0? Q* 0*
\0\0V>\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0V>V>V>\0\0*0II
DUFFS COLLEGE
SdfEe SEc L,h AdlsnEa Lpsc 
rdEESlDnJc
WE KNOW HOW
lu ym y..PMPyT0& 0N0IG0m.0 
OF UY u0yIB FOI TQ0 TIyGmGmV OF 
uOPmV M0m ym& WOM0m FOI 
XPBGm0BB NPIBPGTcKCiIGT0 FOI 7 Ees rnRRHc5
0\0\0V0\0N0\0V0%0\0\0\0V0\0\OSO\0N0*0
i*80
0

R. W. Msdick
OAKLAND MEAT MARKET
CHOICE HOME DRESSED 
MEATS & POULTRY
43g2 HRnlsS SEc
Both Phones.
0*0*0*0*0*0*0I\O%0*OVOVO%OVO*O*0*O\O%O\O\O\O\O\O\O
ELLSWORTH BUSINESS COLLEGE
408 Smithfield st. A Good School. Shorthand, typewriting, bookkeeping, penmanship, arithmetic, English. Six Months, $48; night, $24,' payable monthly; all books FREE. POSITIONS GUARANTEED. Weeks trial free. Call, write or telephone for catalogue.
ing she is attending that this request will be only too 
gladly complied with.
Taken from some exam papers: Never eat a din
ner without having a tablecloth!
Fleas are found on dogs, cats and carpets; beat 
them well and spray them with naptha!
---------o---------
A Society for Flunkers, the prime requisites for 
membership being a failure in some study or expul
sion, is the latest organization to be effected at Ohio 
Wesleyan. The organizers have been looking over 
all records for distinguished alumni who are quali
fied and have sent invitations to to join to Vice Pres
ident Fairbanks, Bishop McDowell, Dr. Frank Gunsaulus, Senator Foraker, and Mayor Brand Whitlock, 
of Toledo.
The Tartans Classified Department
A
DVERTISEMENTS under this head will be accepted a* the following rates: Four-line ad or less ofle insertion' 50 cents; one mouth (four insertions) $1.50. For each additional line, 10 cents per line each insertion. Orders for less than four lines will not be accepted, except at the full four-line rale. All ads will be set in nonpariel type, solid, no display. Cash must accompany all orders, with the exception of long-time contracts. Advertising of an objectionable character will not be accepted.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
<Xbe tartan
Published Weekly During the School Year by 
Students of the Carnegie Technical 
Schools, Pittsburg, Pa.
Entered at the Pittsburgh postoffice as second class matter.
F. E. Foster, 08........................................Editor-in-Chief
R. K. Merrill, 08; J. H. Taxis, 10; F. I. Gaston, 09,
Associate Editors.
J. M. Sampson, 08............................Business Manager
C. L. Carver (Night)... .Assistant Business Manager
Jos. Itoura, Jr., 10.........................Circulation Manager
Correspondents.
A. F. Stamm (1911, Night).
L. W. Nicols (Plebes).
D. J. Spence, 08 (App. Design).
J. L. Hoffman (1912, Night).
J. C. French (Industrials). 
Ray Rodgers (Night Applied Design).
Subscription Rates.
Yeariy ................................................................. $2.00
Single Copy .......................................................10 Cents
For Advertising Rates, address the Business 
Manager, Care Carnegie Technical Schools.
An authority in these matters once said, when 
Questioned as to whether he considered Napoleon 
an Emperor.or not, Well, he was on the pay-roll as 
such. By the same process of reasoning we find 
Mr. Charles C. Leeds to be Assistant to the Head of 
the School for Apprentices and Journeymen and 
Instructor in Mechanical Drawing ( page 88, cata
logue) ; but this is not the capacity in which he is 
best known. The role he occupies changes with the 
season of the year, varying from chief fanatic at the 
W. U. P. foot-ball game and the human megaphone 
at the winter hockey contests to bat-carrier for the 
Faculty base-ball team in the spring, but at'all times 
watch-dog of the Athletic treasury and Faculty rival 
of Scotty in affairs athletic.
It is New Richmond, Ohio, that claims the honor 
of being the birth place of the Judge, as he is 
known among the proletariat, and the Ghio Mechanics 
Institute is his Alma Mater, while his struggles with 
the intricacies of locomotive design (with a piece of 
oily waste) during an apprenticeship in the Big Four 
Railroad shops contributed no small measure to his 
knowledge of things mechanical. He came to Tech 
frrm the engineering Department of the Westinghouse Company, and has the distinction of having 
been the seventh appointee to the teaching staff of 
this institution. The amazing sangfroid with which 
he assures the aspiring beginner that his mechanincal 
drawing is the worst he has seen to date is only one 
of many evidences of his frankness, and anyone who 
has not received ample proof of his belligerency must 
certainly have picked his course with care. Any one 
who desires to know who collected the advertising
accounts of the Lehigh Souvenir Program or how 
much the foot-ball team spent for breakfast in Cleve
land, all he has to do is to step into Mr. Leeds office 
and he will be accommodated forthwith. The person 
who said that a good memory is often mistaken for 
genius, evidently did not have him in mind, or if he 
did the idea would be dispelled when he glanced over 
his recently published work on Mechanical Drawing. 
These character sketches are not paid for on space 
rates, so we bring this to an abrupt close, after men
tioning only a few of the most prominent characteris
tics.
NEW CATALOGUE.
The 1908-1909 general catalogue contains many 
notable features and is far more comprehenssive as 
explanatory of the scope of the courses offered than 
either of the two previous ones. The introduction of 
the credit unnit system is a departure for next year 
and much favorable comment is being made on this 
regime by educators all over the country. The de
scription of the engineering equipment and the out
lines of courses should successfully rid the minds of 
the most sceptical of the delusion that the institution 
is purely a trade school.
Announcement is made of the introduction of a 
new course in the Department of Applied Design, 
titled Interior Decoration. As yet no appointment 
has been made to the position of head of that course, 
but it is expected that before the end of the present 
school year an assignment will be made.
---------o---------
OUR RELAY TEAM.
Our relay team at the University of Pennsylvania 
meet, again demonstrated what W. U. P. and W. & J. 
found out last year, viz., that Carnegie Tech must 
be reckoned with in track events. In fact the show
ing made was so good that next year we are liable 
to find ourselves advanced a class with a new set of 
antagonists to face. While the time made was not 
exceptionally fast it was no criterion of the best in 
our men, as at no time were any of them forced to 
exert themselves and they as well as the coach believe 
that each of them could easily clip a second off his 
time. This time would be in range of either of the 
two higher classes and with another years experience 
our men could be expected to give a good account of 
themselves in whatever class they should be placed.
Of the arrangements for accommodation of the 
visiting teams and the treatment they received noth
ing but praise can be given. The team brought home 
a very striking banner as the winners trophy, while 
each member of the team sports a gold watch that 
aside from being a pleasant souvenir of the occasion 
is an intrinsically valuable piece of property.
Tech then has nothing but praise for her relay 
team and extends her thanks and congratulations for 
the way in which the team represented her at the 
fi-rst appearance so far afield.
F. I. Gaston.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
ONE OF THE NEW USES FOR OLD AUTO
MOBILES.
Many photographers in the East End of London 
publicly advertise that clients can be photographed 
in a motor car if desired, says The Car. In con
versation with an assistant in one of these studios, 
he explained the details to the writer. No extra 
charge is made for the temporary use of the car 
today, though, when the idea was first adopted, this 
was done; but the competition between the photo
graphers on Sundays, when most of the business is 
done, is so keen that the charge has been done away 
with. The cars are hired for the occasion, and all 
the extras, even down to the goggles and ladies veils, 
are supplied. The young man is instructed how to 
take his seat, and the young lady is asked to com
pose her features, but the advice is generally use
less, as, in the words of my informant, ninety-nine 
out of a hundred of them look as if they would be
more at home on top of a buss. On Sundays,
parties follow each other, and those who are waiting 
their turn stand in the yard and watch their prede
cessors being took. On weekdays those who wish 
for the use of the car must notify the photographer 
beforehand. It would be a dead loss for him to get 
the car for one party, so he takes the names of those 
who desire this style, and when he has got a half 
dozen parties who are willing and able to attend 
on the same day he arranges for everything. The 
cars used in this way are ones that have had their 
day and have been superseded by more up-to-date 
vehicles. The aliens, who are so numerous in the 
East End, are particularly fond of being taken in 
this manner, in order to send the cards home to im
press their relatives with the success they have 
achieved in England, as the subjects manifest a 
fitting sense of the importance of their position. 
The Automobile.
Machinery used in the henequen industry 
throughout Yucatan is now purchased principally 
from the United States, the preference for American 
machinery over English, formerly used here, having 
shown a steady growth for some years past. Yuca
tan affords a good market far rails for portable plan
tation railways, which are now furnished almost 
wholly by European manufacturers. The principal 
imports of Yucatan from the United States are ma
chinery, barbed wire, hardware, cattle, Indian corn, 
canned goods, druggists supplies, ready-made cloth
ing, and boots and shoes. A certain amount of hard
ware is annually furnished by Germany. Cotton 
textiles of domestic manufacture are purchased from 
neighboring Mexican States, and ribbons from 
France.
Shuman, The Dry Cleaner, at 3911 Forbes st., 
near Boquet st., cleans everything perfectly; try 
him on your next work.
NEW ENGLAND CLUB BANQUET.
The regular term banquet of the New England 
Club was held at the Nixon last Friday evening. Mr. 
Reed, instructor in the Department of Civil Engineer
ing, was toastmaster. Speeches were made by the 
officers. Those present were:
Mr. Reed, President R. Parsons, Vice President 
Mitchell, Secretary F. E. Foster, Treasurer W. W. 
Williams, Hinckley Wilson.
---------o---------
SENIORS GET THROUGH EARLY.
Regular School work will close for the [Senior 
Class on June 5th, one week before the regular clos
ing date of the other classes of the day school. Stu
dents of the 1908 class will be required to meet the 
two-third credit grade, but opportunity will be given 
to raise Pass grades to Credit during the present 
term, under direction of the department head.
--------o----------
The recent international chess game, played by 
cable between Oxford and Cambridge, on the one 
side, and Columbia, Harvard, Princeton, and Pennsyl
vania on the other, resulted in a victory for the Amer
icans.
---------o---------
The members of the Chinese Students Associa
tion at the University of California are editing a Chi
nese annual which aims to set forth the purposes and 
activities of the Chinese students at that University.
 o---------
Chicagos four big foot-ball games next fall are 
those with Illinois, Minnesota, Wisconsin and Cornell.
8 NIFTY
g
Σ
*
The New Pump, the shoe for young 
mentwo holesshort vamps in Tan 
Dull and Patent, $4.00
STOEBENERS
'f, 6227 Penn Ave.
4! 6222 Frankstown EAST END 

---------------------------------------------------

C. Oak lndlnH
| PERTINENT AND IMPERTINENT |
Techmont has finished their tennis court and 
have it in use nearly all the time.* * * *
It is strongly recommended by the Tartan that 
the Senior Class take some action immediately re
garding Class Day Program. As far as our corre
spondent has been able to find out, no definite action 
has been taken, and as but five weeks intervene be
tween the present and Commencement Day, the 1908 
men should take action at once.* * * *
Catalogue is issued to-day.* * * *
Apprentices and Journeymen banquet Saturday 
night.
* * * *
The School for Journeymen closes for the year 
on Thursday evening. All other departments of the 
A. & J. close on Friday.
* * * *
Prof. Keller has removed to 848 Sheridan avenue.
* * * *
Dr. Hamerschlag will address the Principals As
sociation of Allegheny County on Saturday morning.
? * * %
Each Student is entitled to one ticket for to-mor
row evenings exhibition.
* # * ?
Dr. Hamerschlag visited Lehigh University on 
Tuesday on the occasion of Founders Day at that in
stitution.
* * * *
Every student of the Day School is requested to
be present at the School on Thursday evening.
* * * *
Prof. CrabtreeWhere were you yesterday, 
Hamnett?
HamnettIt was too hot in school. I went to 
the theatre.
Prof. CrabtreeYou must have gone with a girl 
with a marble heart, or you would find it just as hot 
in the theatre.
* * * *
Ask Scotty about his wife!
? ? * ?
Turn up the light! Ask Chancellor!
$ $ $ $
GastonThe only way Roura can stop Scotty 
from making a noise is to make more noise and shame 
him to quietness.? ? * %
We learn that Paul Reinecke is doing well at 
West Point.
Those members of the relay team who are won
dering whether their watches are solid or not may 
find out by applying to most any pawnbroker.$ $ $ $
"Sam Potts was in Toronto a few days on a busi
ness trip.* * * *
Professor CrabtreeI will be absent to-morrow, 
hence will be unable to lecture to youpauseMr. 
McIntosh will lecture in my stead.
CharlesStung again!* * $ *
Anxious studentYes, if you get all Hs and Cs 
you will undoubtedly graduate.
---------o---------
THE NEW ATHLETIC FIELD.
For the information of students the following 
statement is made concerning the conditions govern
ing the use of the new athletic field:
First, the Two Dollar assessment for ticket to 
baseball games is a part of the student fee which 
under the original proposition accepted by written 
student vote was to be made at the opening of each 
school year. The remainder of the fee is to be col
lected upon entrance in the fall, in return for which 
a season ticket will be issued for either the Football 
season (except the Thanksgiving Day Game) or the 
Baseball season of 1908-9, at the option of the stu
dent. No other contribution will be required for 
student organizations.
These student fees are to apply to the current 
expenses of the Athletic Association and do not go 
toward the cost of improving the field except in 
case of deficit from gate receipts.
Second, students holding tickets are to be ad
mitted to the grounds at all times except when out
side contests or other attractions are scheduled.
Third, all ground receipts from all contests held 
on the field during the first year and during all but 
two summer months of the second year are to be 
used for the payment of ground expenses. When 
these expenses have been defrayed the Athletic As
sociation is to receive 50 per cent of any additional 
net receipts.
 o--------------
One hundred and one American colleges have 
holidays on Mondays. Their presidents enthusiasti
cally approve of the plan, and declare that it has
almost entirely done away with Sunday studying.
 o--------------
A third of the students at Harvard, Yale, and 
Pennsylvania, and a fourth at Princeton, are working 
their way through college.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN11
STUDENTS ACCOUNTS RECEIVE CAREFUL, ATTENTION
------AT THE------
Oakland Savings and Trust Go.
IROQUOIS BLOCK
CAPITAL $200,000.00 SURPLUS $126,000.00
| PLEBES DAY1910 |
Amid great enthusiasm and great excitement, the 
election of officers for the spring term was held. The 
place of meeting was the Assembly Hall, and it was 
crowded to the doors. The election of offifficers took 
place at once and resulted as follows:
PresidentWm. Buhl.
Vice PresidentAlan Bright.
SecretaryTexas McCorkle.
TreasurerR. S. Wagner.
The present representative to the Tartan resigned 
his position and S. S. Baker was chosen as a succes
sor. Various other questions of moment were brought 
up and discussed before the meeting adjourned.
DittmanDid you see the accommodation locker 
in the lower corridor?
Prof. Trinks (taking roll)Gh, theres another 
fellow who isnt here.
Prof. WurtsWere on the last lap at last.
Prof. KellerWe are not conscious that we are 
moving around the sun at the rate of 19 miles a sec
ond, because there are no telegraph poles or Tech 
Beer signs in space.
Prof. Trinks (as Henry Peebles passes through 
the room)Are there any more at home like you?
Bright (Dicky Doodle Dumms) surveying"Put 
er down a tiny wee little hair.
Do you think women should smoke?
Not in this life.
Prof. TrinksIm not much of a Greek scholar, 
but its all Greek to me.
TeacherWhere is the best known diamond in 
the world?
PupilExposition Park.
---------o---------
At Chicago University, the faculty, instead of 
allowing the students to fool them by not coming to 
classes, fooled the students by calling off all classes 
and declaring a holiday.
 Social Functions ^
n are enjoyable affairs if our frozen desserts 4
* are served. Salted nuts, chocolates, paper 2
f* napkins, dinner cards and tally cards are
among the necessities. 0
I HALLER'S BAKERY |
3618 Forbes Ave. Iroquois Block x
1 WALLACE OPTICAL CO. I
Suite 503-505
Diamond Bank Building 
PITTSBURG, PA.
Eyes tested free. Prescriptions 
promptly filled. All work 
guaranteed.
4*
Flowers
The largest stock on hand at all 
times is the one from which to 
select.
The prices are reasonable and 
consistent with the best quality.
4. W. SMITH
 345 SIXTH AVENUE PITTSBURG, PA.
I D. J. KENNEDY COMPANY
I BUILDING MATERIAL
 FiCs FWuCO BWick 6366 FWtCknOuBC Avs.
^ Yards : All Parts of City
I PHILLIPS AND MANNING
4* Stationers
0 Magazines Post Cards* FULLER-GREENE CHOCOLATES
 3702 Forbes Street
* Cigars Tobacco
VTWTWTWTWTVVvTVTWTWVyTyTVTVTVTVTVTVT

---------------------------------------------------

12 . THE TARTAN
Students of Carnegie Tech will find that which will 
satisfy the most critical appetite at
NINETEEN ELEVEN |
A. F. Stamm, Editor.
On Saturday afternoon seven of the class of 1911 
were out on the campus practicing base-ball. There 
were some other Tech students out and a game was 
soon going. It would be very nice if the writer could 
pat each man on the back and say Well done, etc. 
but since the truth must prevail each man without 
exception earned a pat on the back (the fleshy part) 
for several or more contributions in the way of errors 
of omission and commission.
Some of the features of the play were the work of 
Bill Glasser at first base with the graceful (?) Delsartian accompaniment, Pringles catching (particu
larly with his teeth) and the weird fielding of Yenny, 
McCall, Stamm and Taylor.
Yennys batting was spectacular, as he was hit
ting at about 3G6 in the hole. McCall was responsi
ble for a number of team plays, his wild heaves caus
ing both teams to get out to hunt the ball. When it 
is said that Stamm also played his performance is 
fairly well-sized up. Taylor punctured the ozone sev
eral times with men on base, but it did no harm, as 
the score keeper lost track of the score when it got 
to sudh figures as 27 to 15.
The light hitting and the many bases on balls 
were due to the blue haze around the catchers terri
tory, rendering it difficult for the pitcher to locate 
the plate and almost impossible for the batter to see 
the ball. This was particularly true when Pringle 
was behind the bat.
The work of Umpire Wood's was of such a nature 
as to call forth from both sides such invitations as 
Back to your namesake, etc.
Mr. John L. Hoffman is looking after the Thistle 
subscriptions in 1912 and A. F. Stamm is taking care of 
a similar duty in 1911. Students who have not been 
approached personally by the men will not take it as 
an act of discrimination and are urged to hunt up one 
of these men and subscribe at once.
Strenuous efforts are being made to have the 
book out by May 8th, so the night students need not 
hesitate to pay in advance.
The Tech relay team won the event in which they 
were entered. W. U. P. annd W. & J. also ran.
Wilharm cornered the hair market for several 
months and caused the plasterers (and laborers) no 
end of worry. We are glad to note the change in con
ditions and the renewed activity in the plasterers 
trade. Incidentally we may add that Wilharm now 
has not so much on his mind.
C. B. Kline is reported as improving slowly but 
steadily from his illness.
THE BELLEFIELD RESTAURANT
CRAIG AN1> FORBES STREET
Our Special Meals at 3oc are making quite a liit. 
Try One.
ROTHS BARBER SHOP3017 rORBES STREET
First Class Haircutting and Face and Head 
Massage a Specialty. Quinine Sage Tonic 
a Sure Cure for Dandruff10c Treatment
OPEN UNTIE 9 P. M.
CULLEN & THOMPSON 
DRUGGISTS
HIGH CLASS DRUGS FINE CIGARS AND CANDY
Centre ave. and Neville st., Pittsburg, Pa.
9R8a AD,9e nRRt
3807 FIFTH AVENUE
TRY OUR 15 CX. MEAL
$3.00 LUeao yhaK.y 2.50
-------RICKETTS-------
Plumbing and Heating Company
JOBBING PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO
3908 Fifth Avenue 
Bell Phone 30 Schenley Pittsburgh, Pa.
M. A. KONOLD
-------DEALER IN--------
FINE GROCERIES, TEAS, COFFEES, ETC.
4634 Centre Avenue, Corner Melwood Street 
P. & A. 1582-K. Bell Schenley 1634
It is reported that Clyde Nevins, A-2, has left 
school. Mr. Nevins had many friends in school who 
will learn with regret of his leaving.
---------0---------
Alumnae and women students at Wisconsin Uni
versity are agitating the subject of woman suffrage, 
and have heard addresses by well-known leaders in 
the movement.
---------o---------
THE FUNCTIONS OF THE ENGINEER AS A 
SALESMAN.
By Sterling H. Bunnell in The Engineering Magazine.
The Tartan takes the liberty of publishing the fol
lowing article, as many students have chosen the sell
ing end of business life after graduation:
One of the most successful salesmen of large 
steam-power machinery, with whom a single contract 
of a hundred thousand dollars was no uncommon af

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN13
fair, used to say, half in jest, that ignorance was an 
important part of a salesmans equipment. The state
ment could hardly be said to be proved by any lack 
of knowledge on the part of its author, but contained 
a germ of truth, nevertheless. The mistake of many 
educated and experienced professional men, when 
attempting to make sales, has been their inability to 
see an important personal side of the transaction, en
tirely aside from considerations of good fellowship 
and social attention. The intending purchaser has his 
own ideas of the general principles and details of the 
apparatus which he desires to obtain; and he is not 
informed as to other detailsperhaps misinformed in 
general. It is the salesmans province to ascertain 
exactly the requirements of the work to be done, to 
appreciate and consider carefully the desires of the 
purchaser, and to supplement his lack of knowledge 
without slighting and disregarding the value of the 
information which he has acquired in his busienss, 
and which has produced the opportunity for the sale.
The Attractions of Salesmanship.
With the increase in the number of technically 
educated young men, the former universal doorway 
by which the higher grades of the profession were en
tered, via the drafting room, no longer serves to ac
commodate the crowd. The attractiveness of the 
selling side of engineering is considerable. For one 
thing, the young salesman immediately commences to 
increase his acquaintance with men of attainments in 
all lines, and his general knowledge of business meth
ods. His knowledge of human nature is enlarged, 
and if he 1>3 tactful, agreeable, and (above every
thing) quick and alert to take advantage of all the 
bits of information that crowd upon him in his daily 
intercourse with the business world, he cannot fail 
to succeed. The most common mistake of the recent 
technical graduate is a desire to teach the men whom 
he addresses, instead of a retentive state of mind, 
prepared to learn of every one. There is so little 
exact knowledge of practical conditions that one must 
be wary of attempting to reduce to figures the state
ments ipade by men of loose habits of thought, and 
equally careful neither to doubt openly, nor to accept 
without qualification, statements of conditions and re
sults which appear to be entirely contrary to scien
tific principles.
Taking Care of the Accessories.
The engineering salesman is frequently called 
upon to act independently of the consulting engineer. 
In steam-power plant work, for instance, the great 
majority of the sales consists of plants comprising 
one, two or three units each, of engines and boilers 
of less than two-Jhundred horse-power, the cost of such 
a plant being small, and the conditions of its success
ful operation being so well-known that the special 
ability of the high-priced consulting engineer is not 
appreciated. In such a steam plant, however, there 
are many accessories which go far toward making 
the plant a success or failure as they are well or 
badly designed. The steam piping, if turned over to
All good students are photographed by
-------HENRY-------
For Class and Fraternity Groups.
WE SAYYou can't get them as gocd at any price. Students invited to inspect our work.
O. C. HENRYStudio, 321 Fifth Ave., Pittsburg, Pa.
(Our prices no higher than you pay for inferior work.)
Ho\W AUDITORIUM bating
THE BEST FLOOR, S$< ATES AND 
MUSIC IN THE STATE.
2.000 Pair Skates. 25,000 Sq. Ft. Surfact
Cor. Broad and Larimer Ave.
TECH BARBER SHOP
ec Hc pL, 9Dns,- rnRrndsERn
Cor. Craig and Forbes Streets 
 WHERE THE HUNCII GOES.
GOOD THINGS TO EAT
AT THE PUKE FOOD STORES OF
GEO. K. STEVENSON & CO.
Sixth Avenue Highland and Center
Down Town 4*%0 4-'
Hardware and House-furnishing 
Goods
Scarborough & Klauss
3809 FIFTH AVENUE
Pell 117-R Schenley Open Evenings
DR. E. S. McNEVIN
S.eyhSy
CHARLES BUILDING 
N. E. Cor. Forbes and Craig Sts. PiOOndlWg, Pt.
L EE SIN
THE ONLY FIRST CLASS LAUNDRY IN OAKLAND 
211 ATWOOD STREET
GTJilieiilTTEES SATISFACTIC IfcT
WHEN YOU ARE HUNGRY AND WANT A 
t.OOD HUNGRY MAN S MEAL, GO TO
The Cottage Restaurant
207 ATWOOD STREET 
$3.50 Meal Tickets for $3.00
LHEsn S9eRRA 1CCCCCCCCCC
------meet me at------
WELKERS BILLIARD PARLORS
114-116 Atwood Street, Oakland 
POOL 2^ CENTS A CUE 
Phone 9701-R Schenley EUGENE WELKEE, Prop

---------------------------------------------------

14THE TARTAN
a working steam fitter to design and construct, is 
likely to be a serious source of danger; the drainage 
of condensed water may be poorly provided for, and 
a considerable quantity of hot water will probably 
be thrown away, instead of going back to the boilers 
to reduce the coal consumption. The engines may be 
inconveniently placed; the foundations may be either 
too weak, or unnecessarily strong and expensive; and 
in a dozen other ways the best of engines and boilers 
may form part of a poor outfit. The purchaser of a 
plant of this character feels able to discriminate be
tween the various propositions made to him, to ex
amine the catalogs, cuts, and specifications submitted, 
and with tihe precaution to deal only with builders of 
reputation, to satisfy himself of obtaining well con
structed and satisfactory units. If, now, among the 
salesmen who address him upon these several propo
sitions, he meets one whose knowledge evidently ex
tends considerably beyond the details of the appara
tus he offers, and who is able to make up and submit 
special sketches and plans showing the plant com
plete, to make slight improvements in the arrange
ments in the arrangement to suit conditions which 
the purchaser has overlooked, to determine the size 
of accessories and to include them if desired in his 
estimate of the cost, and to advise as to convenient 
sources of supply for apparatus which he is not justi
fied in furnishing as part of the contractthis man is 
nearly sure to carry off the job for his company, even 
at a considerably higher price than that submitted 
by others.
Such a salesman has the same advantages over 
the man without technical ability, when dealing with 
the most expert consulting engineers. While in this 
case he is not expected, and in general must not at
tempt, to make suggestions in regard to changes in 
details which have been carefully designed with a 
full knowledge of conditions which the newcomer can
not hope to grasp complete in a cursory view of the 
situation, his readiness to grasp the desired featur s 
of the apparatuus, his appreciation of reasons for the 
specifications of the consulting engineer, and the con
fidence which his explanations of the details of the 
construction he offers will inspire, in the mind of the 
purchasers engineer, of the undoubted substantial 
and satisfactory character of the work that will be 
delivered, will be quite as important as the matter of 
price in determining the choice among several bid
ders.
Superintending the Installation.
In many other classes of work the chance for the 
engineering salesman is excellent. In the utilization 
of waste products, in novel methods of manufacture 
of well-known articles, in producing new and desira
ble forms of common materials, and often in arrang
ing details of machinery for already stanndard pro
cesses, no consulting engineer skilled in the particu
lar work in hand can be had, for the reason that the 
processes or conditions are entirely new. The in
ventor or promoter of the process is most likely any
thing but a man of engineering ability; usually he is 
practical business man, or a visionary enthusiast, in-'sXT. S^EIXH 
CUT FLOWERS
LATEST PATTERNS IN WALL PAPER 
PICTURE FRAMING 
114 Atwood St. Bet. 5th and Forbes
AFTER THE THEATRE
Dont forget to stop at
HOTEL ST.
Cor. Penn Ave. and St. C lair St.
We have the finest equipped Iyadies and Gents Dining Room in E. K. Our specialties are Club Sandwiches and all kinds of Sea Food, for Banquet and Theatre Parties.
Phones 4070 Highland 9056 Highland
Schenley Farms
HdHEe LpsclsAAsHdsAh Lpsc
FINE RESIDENCE PROPERTY
For prices and t< rms apply
nRRt k2kk HLntsnS lL,o lDdAhd,Tc
SIPES JAPAN OIL
Superior to Linseed Oil for all kinds of Painting 
JAMES B. SIPE & CO.
Allegheny, Pa.
THE S. RSMYTHE CO.,
PITTSBURGH, PA.,
Engineers and Contractors,
Rolling Mills, Steel Works,
Glass Works, Gas troducer
Plants, for Fuel and Power.
SANKEY BROS,
All Grades of RED BRICK
Office2112 CARSON STREET 
Both Phones. S. S., PITTSBURG
James HayPresidentJohn F. ProvanManager
THE HAY PLUMBING CO.
Plumbing and Sanitary Engineers
Bell Phone 1910 Highland P. & A. Phone 971 East 
5621 Penn Ave., Pittsburg, Pa.
Tech Students Receive Special Attention at
PHARMACYIHRIGS
3614 Fifth Avenue - - Near Forbes Street
A. N. MARTIN, Ph.G., Prop.
Bell 611-I, SchenleyTeas and Coffees a Specialty
JOHN KUEHNE
HOME DRESSED POULTRY 
OYSTERS IN SEASON 
FRESH BUTTER AND EGGS
kwY RLoAL,h Lpsc rdEESlDnbrLc

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN15
capable of producing a complete working plant on the 
lines he has vaguely in mind, and often aware of his 
inability to do so. The engineering salesman meet
ing such a man for the purpose of selling him his 
power plant or his transmission machinery, or of ob
taining the order for constructing his special appa
ratus, is very likely, if he is awake to the opening 
presented, to carry off in the end the contract for the 
complete plant. From his acquaintance with the pos
sibilities of local shops, or cf men or corporations of 
obility in special details of the proposed installation, 
he is able to collect the necessary data, to make plans 
and to assemble details, to modify sizes and arrange
ments, and to supplement the general knowledge of 
the inventor or promoter with his own special tech
nical ability, so that he can offer the prospective 
purchaser a well-defined equipment for his total re. quirements, covered by a single contract and for a 
single stipulated price. The purchaser is glad to have 
but one concern to deal with, and that one which can 
offer him the services of so skillful an engineer as 
the man who has assisted him in producing the com
plete design; while the commission which the sales
man secures for his office on the apparatus which he 
has collected from other parties, and which involves 
no expense to his office except the collection and 
transmission of the purchase price, will be a very 
desirable item of income.
A Promoter of Good Will.
Even after the salesman has obtained his order, 
his usefulness to his home office is by no means 
ended. Being familiar with local conditions, he is 
able to give useful advice to methods of shipment, 
points of delivery, local facilities for handling the 
shipment, and labor, skilled and unskilled, which may 
be had on the spot for the purpose of completing the 
erection of the machinery. In some cases, the sales
man, though by no means a workman, can demon
strate the use of machinery and equipment which he 
has placed, to very great advantage, as he already 
has the respect and confidence of the purchaser. 
Being skilled in his business affairs, lie is able to 
place local contracts for handling, construuction, sup
plies necessary for erection, and the like, and pecul
iarly in a position to promote a feeling of good will on 
the part of the purchasers organization and manag
ing officials. When it comes to a working test dem
onstrating the capacity or efficiency of the construc
tion, the salesman can undertake the nominal direc
tion of the work, his presence and friendship smooth
ing many an otherwise rough place in the path of the 
of the testing expert, who is generally regarded by 
the purchaser as more or less of a sharper rather than 
a scientific investigator. Finally, when delivery and 
test is completed, the engineering salesman, by his 
ability and his undivided efforts toward the satisfac
tion of the purchaser with the finished work, has nine 
out of ten points gained in closing the affair with not 
only the full payment of the balance due, but a feeling 
of good will which will go very far toward securing 
the next order for an increase in the capacity of the 
successful working plant.
MEET ME AT KINGS CAFE
3621 FIFTH AVENUE
Under New Manegement
AND HAVE A MEAL LIKE MOTHER USED TO COOK 
$3.50 MEAL TICKETS $3.00
CALL -----
TAYLORS CATERERS
011 the phone for the right price on 
CREAHS AND ICES 
Also Estimates for Weddings and Receptions. 
Phone 1365 Highland 117 S. Sheridan St.
^uliaq, Kennedy
Engineer pitfsbur^S
S. DIESCHER & SONS
CONSULTING ENGINEERS
Iron & Steel Works, Rolling Mills, Manufacturing 
Plants and Engineering Structures 
Farmers Bank Bldg. Pittsburg, Pa.
Schlieper Engineering Co.
Engineers and Contractors 
ARLEARA CStSD, Hsianioe Pittsburg, Pa.
Bell Phone 1057 Court
FOR EXPERTS Engineers, Architects, 
DraughtsmenExperts or Students
Should get acquainted with the resources of supply for all Drawing and Artists Materials offered by this house
KURTZ, LANGBEIN & SWARTZ,
6o6 Wood St., 6th Ave.
ic Sc lnRi,
BASKET BALL
Balls, Goals, Shoes, Sweaters, all Athletic Goods and 
Fine Cutlery, Fire Arms, Ammunition and Sports
mans Outfits. Best Goods at Lowest Prices
523 Wood St., - - Pittsburg, Pa.
Murdoch-Kerr Co.
Printers and Publishers
Ample Facilities, Large Experience,
Satisfactory Service.
Strawberry and Cherry Ways.
311 McKee Place, OaklandBeauti
ful rooms, with board ; optional; 
reasonable.

---------------------------------------------------

Had them made with extra narrow brim 
new slight bell to the crown which gives them 
a definite appropriateness for young fellows 
$G.OO and $8.00.
Silk Opera Hats cut over the same lines, 
$6.00, $8.00.
BOGGS & BUHL
p\O\OXOXOSO\OXOXOSOXOXOXOXOXOX0X0\<>S
I BEST EQUIPHENT |
# Highest I Grade  
Work *
Prompt | Service %
X Established 1893 Both Phones &
\O\OXOXOXO\O\OXOXOXO\OXOXO\OX0X0\OXS
>so%c>xo%oxc>\oxc>xvsaxox&\axc>%<>4x%o\vx
TO PROFESSORS AND STUDENTS 
OF CARNEGIE TECH. SCHOOLS
We send you a Cordial Invitation to 
visit our New Building
THE RITTENHOUSE
011 Highland, near Penn Avenue, 
which is now completed and ready for 
business. * *
W. R. KUHN & CO. *
tererbserererbhsbrHrbrgrerererbrDrbsD E TO STUDENTS OF | CARNEGIE TECH SCHOOLS %
% We are headquarters for Banquets and parties O
* on North Side. Hotel Orchestra every eve w 
^ from G to 11.30 oclock. g
 Give us a trial. We guarantee satisfaction, m
514 SMITHFIELD STREET 
409 FIFTH AVENUE
CAPITAL - - - $4,000,000
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS 
OF STUDENTS.
g HOTEL KNICKERBOCKER *
g Opposite Carnegie Music Hall (Allegheny). 0
? JOHN HUPERT, Manager. p$ HENRY HAGENAH, Proprietor. g
^ Bell 2350 Cedar P. & A. 238 North g
\0%0\0\0\0V0\0\0\0\0\0\0\v%0\0\0%0\?
Resources over 41 Millions
0\0\OV>V:\O\0\0\O\0\0\OV>\OV>VO\O\0% S THE RED DWARF INK PENCIL gX A PENCIL. THAT GIVES SATISFACTION >
S See the  __________n_______?. $ point 5* ;........-"--"-11 8
2 Carried in any position Best thing for taking notes w Does not leak Extra fine for ruling28 Will not ink fingers Especially good for mauifolding w Use any fluid ink Suitable for sketc h drawing MC& Always ready for ist stroke Makes writing a pleasure 5 Especially adapted for students, teachers and business men H 3 Dr. John A. Brashear writes:The Red Dwarf Ink   Pencil has proven a veritable blessing to me. I would not  3 exchange it for all the fountain pens I have ever had in my g R possession, and I have had quite a good many of them. It3 never fails me and I am using it constantly, rarely using a   lead pencil now because it is so handy. ^
6 Two SizesPrice $2.50Guaranteed. Beware of Imitations 
0 S. O. SINGER, Selling Agent *
q Phone Grant 3488 339 Elftli Ave., Pittsburg yi
\O\O\O\OSOSO\O\O\O\O*O\O*O*0\O*O*ONO
oxmmvsmmvsoxvsvxcf.s&xm&xvsvsvsvx 
$ HAND TURNED 
1 COLLARS I
0I
P 
g 
I<y$ STEVENSON & FORBES STREETS J
g Bell Phone 2943 Grant P.&A.Phone 148 Main jQj
\ov>\o.v:v>\o\ovoxc*o\ov3*o\o\o*o*o*o
