Readers Write. 
f/SSSSAM.
Bill Of Rights
Editor, the Tartan:
*9 In a battle between Pittsburghs finest and the Bill of 
Rights, I am sorry to report that freedom placed a poor 
second.
In the latter part of the 18th century it was by no mere 
accident, by no legislative inadvertance, that the Constitution 
of the United States was amended so as to include the Bill of 
Rightsthe prime preserver of our individual and civil lib
erties.
Because our forefathers accurately foresaw the events in 
i&e future that might sink the ship of state and so made 
provisions which they felt would guarantee liberty to the 
citizenry, our country has risen to great rights; because, 
however, they failed to contend with the Pittsburgh Police 
Department, the Bill of Rights is no longer a recital of fact, 
nor does it seem that it even contains words of aspiration.
April 1, 1959
At 10:30, on April 1, three hundred Carnegie Tech stu
dents celebrated the advent of spring by converging on the 
|rls dormitory. After arriving, some from as far away as two 
blocks, the 275 stood around expending nervous energy by 
shifting from foot to foot while the remaining twenty five 
valiantly attempted to enter the lobby (in which they are 
allowed entrance anyway). Observing the proceedings from 
across the street, within the confines of their houses were 
approximately an additional two hundred fraternity men.
Suddenly the police swooped down and everyone dis
persed. Not finding a sufficient number of willing victims, the 
lice then ran into the fraternity houses to help fill up their 
uota and emerged with a handful of mennot one of whonl 
had participated in the events of the evening. I was one of 
this handful.
Justice
I am no Diogenes. I do not search for truth with a lantern. 
I do, however, expect justice from our system of courts. I 
was sitting on the porch of my fraternity house watching 
from a vantage pointa policeman came running up the 
stairs; he grabbed me and dragged me into the paddy wagon 
^alizing my innocence, I attempted no resistance. I expected 
justice.
Later, I was accused of using profanity. My arresting 
officer, however, taught me many new words I had not heard 
of before. I was taken to jail and placed in a cell. A drunk was 
placed in the same cell with some of the students to the 
amusement of Pittsburghs finest. I was released for $50 bail.
Court
That morning I was arraigned. It was the most flagrant 
Eolation of justice I have ever witnessed. If a man is inno
cent until proven guilty, then the presiding judge was un
aware of this. It was sentence first, verdict afterwards. I 
was not even given the opportunity to plead guilty or not 
guilty. My arresting officer was not even present at this 
kangaroo court.
Having been exposed to the kind of justice that Pitts
burgh has to offer, I am sickened by the entire matter. If 
these examples of ethical disintegration are still in evidence 
4$hen I graduate and enter the engineering world, my inten
tion would be never to seek employment in the city of Pitts
burgh. The realization of its continuance might convince me 
that America, the land of the brave and the free, the home 
of the tired, the poor, the wretched masses yearning to be 
free is just like the Pittsburgh that the police department 
has shown it to be.?Sincerely,
Joel I. Edelman 
a (Editors Note: The Tartan editors sympathize with the 
plight of the writer of this letter, and are thankful that they 
were more fortunate f{front porch spectators. While the 
account of the panty raid is probably over-simplified, the 
other parts of the description presented are all too true. While 
it is true that college students are subject to the law of the 
land as is anyone else, it is also true that the methods used by 
the Pittsburgh Police in quelling the disturbance would have 
been more appropriate in Tibet.R.G.W.)
Scholarships
Application blanks are now 
available in the Office of the 
Committee on Financial Aid 
for two scholarships in the 
amount of $300.00 each.
The scholarships are avail
able to those women who will 
be full time students in the 
junior or senior year as of 
September, 1959. Completed 
applications, including tran
scripts, are to be returned to 
the financial aid office no later 
than May 15, 1959.
^CARNEGIETARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 52NUMBER 21WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 1959
S n S Tickets
Tickets for their 1959 pro
duction, Set Em Up Again, 
will go on genera! sale next 
Wednesday, April 15. Fra
ternities and other campus 
organizations may order block 
tickets now.
Themes Announced 
For Midway Booths
The Spring Carnival committee of Student Congress an
nounced this past week that plans to make the 1959 Carnival 
as colorful and exciting as ever, even though Carnegies 
building program has created numerous problems.
Definite confirmation on the site* 
for the midway has not yet been
May 7 Date Set 
For Senior Banquet
By Tom Bieg
This years annual senior banquet will be held Thursday, 
May 7, in the Webster Hall Hotel. All seniors are invited to 
this dinner which is financed by the Alumni Federation. 
Extensive plans, presently being made for the banquet
?by the Class of 1959 Organization 
Committee, have a three-fold purgiven, but the committee cochairmen have been told by the 
administration that there is a 
strong chance that the midway 
can be set up on the Cut. With 
this in mind, plans are going 
ahead for Techs Spring Steals. 
Opening
Carnival weekend officially be
gins Thursday, April 30, with the 
opening of the midway at 4:30. 
Scotch n Soda performances, 
which annually precede Carnival, 
will be given April 27 through 
April 30.
For their Spring Steals booths, 
booths, the fraternities have se
lected the following themes: ATO 
Stolen Bases; BSRJack and 
the Beanstalk; BTP  Captain 
Kidd; DUThe Knave of Hearts; 
DTDRobbin Hood; KSHelen 
of Troy; PiKAPanty Raid; PK 
Steal into the Future; SAE 
Great Locomotive Chase; SN  
Count of Monte Cristo; TDP 
Jesse James Glendale Train Rob
bery; and TXAli Babba and the 
Forty Thieves.
The sorority booths will be built 
according to the theme of the 
[continued on page 9]
Sororities Choose 
Candidates For 
Carnival Queen
The 1959 Sprng Carnval queen 
candidates, elected within the past 
two weeks by the sororities, will 
be formally presented to the cam
pus Tuesday, April 21, in front of 
Fine Arts.
Seeking the title of Carnival 
queen are Tody Emmert and Bev 
Scott, Chi Omega; Fran Bebic, 
Tri-Delt; Peggy Lengyel and Au
drey Camp,DG; Marilyn Greiner 
and Becky Conrad, Theta; and Lex 
Baker and Barb Krack, Kappa.
Opening
The sorority queen campaigns 
will officially begin April 17, with 
skit presentations being held Tues
day, April 21, at 11:30 a.m. The 
sororities will also tour the fra
ternities, mens dorms, and grad
uate dorms on Wednesday and 
Thursday evenings, April 22 and 
23. The schedule of tours will be 
published in a later issue of the 
Tartan.
In keeping with this years Car
nival theme, Spring Steals, the 
sororities have chosen the follow
ing topics for their skits: MacBeth, Chi O; Somebody Stole My 
Gal, Tri-Delt; Abduction of the 
Sabine Women, DG; Flapper Napper, Theta; and Ali Babba, Kappa.
Campus Religion 
Conference To Be 
Held April 14 22
The week of April 14 to April 
22 has been chosen as the time for 
the Campus Conference of Reli
gion on the Tech campus. This 
Conference is sponsored annually 
by the Committee on Religious 
Affairs, a group composed of stu
dent, faculty, and alumni repre
sentatives.
This year will feature a new 
format for the conference. An 
actual conferei<^ atmosphere will 
exist as numerous small discus
sion groups will make up the 
majority of the week.
First, at the Tuesday  assembly 
hour on April 14, Huston Smith, 
a well-known Professor of Philo
sophy at M.I.T. will speak on a 
subject dealing with our attitudes 
icontinued on page 5J
pose: to continue the annual sen
ior banquet tradition begun last 
year; to select a class committee 
to organize the first class reunion 
in 1964; and to pledge support to 
the Development Fund Program 
in conjunction with the Alumni 
Federation.
The senior banquet tradition 
was initiated last spring to pro
vide the class a last opportunity 
(and the only opportunity since 
Freshman Week) to gather social
ly as a class, and its first gather
ing as prospective alumnia pre
view of coming reunions. Because
UMOC Entries
All entries for the Ugliest 
Man on Campus Contest must 
be submitted to the Dean of 
Students Office by Friday. 
April 10. Any student organi
zation may enter a candidate. 
The voting will be held from 
April 15 to April 1711:30 
a.m. to 1:30 p.m. in Skibu.
of this, the necessary funds are 
provided by the Alumni Federa
tion. The banquet was well at
tended and enthusiastically en
joyed by last years seniors.
Election
Election of a class committee 
which will work with the Alumni 
Federation to organize the firs+ 
[continued on page 51
Kiltie Band Presenting 
Final Concert Tonight
The Carnegie Tech Pipers, under the direction of Lew 
Davidson, will parade on the stage of Carnegie Music Hall 
to open the final Kilties Band Concert of the season tonight 
at 8:15.
Highlighting the program will be four guest conduc
tors: William A. Schaefer, past director of the Kilties and
-----------------------------------------------------?presently director of bands at the
University of Southern California; 
Sterling Yates, radio and TV 
personality popular with listeners 
of Cordic and Company on 
KDKA; Jack Purcell, society band 
leader who was formerly with 
the Pittsburgh Symphony; and 
Carl McVicker, music director at 
Westinghouse High School.
The main selection of the eve
ning will be Night on a Bald 
Mountain by Moussorgsky. Also 
included in the program are Fi
nale From Tschaikowskys 4th 
Symphony, 18th Century Organ 
Overture, Score from Carousel, 
Ballet for Young Americans, 
and the Eurnythe Overture."
Students are urged to take ad
vantage of this opportunity to 
hear one of Americas finest col
lege bands perform an interesting 
and varied program of good mu
sical entertainment. Tickets may 
a c i. * ke Purchased by students for 50William f/ Schaefer rents at the door of the Music
Director of Bands at U. S. C. Hall.
0

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, April S, 1959
CoJ Of D.L WJ,
Janet Young
Senior Drama Major
Each Coed of The Week will receive a tree carton of 
Marlboro cigarettes under a new cooperative arrange
ment between the TARTAN and the campus representa
tive of the Philip Morris Company, Harry Desilates.
Entries for the Coed of the Week Contest should be 
sent to the TARTAN via intraschool mail.
Techs Mortar Board 
Presents Suggestions
The aims of Mortar Board, national senior womens hon
orary, are the promotion of scholarship, leadership and 
service.
The Eta Chapter of Carnegie Tech has chpsen to
scholarship this year, and since*--------------------------------------------------
last fall has conducted a series of non major), Russia (economics,
discussion and uqestion sessions. cuUure), tensive history in stral,Z ? ,v.e share. T itegic international areas of intersults of this thinking with the es, sociol (famil adolescent>
campus community. ; men(al hea,th) psychology
Discussion has centered around: leadership, marriage (preparation 
the general area of how the in-1 for problems of) 
teUectual atmosphere of the CIT eneral sugges;ions: Thee cen. 
campus might be unproved or ter on the improvement ot intel. 
further stimulated.Specific sugIectua, opportunities. increased 
ges ions tend to fall into two gen: stimuIation from outside (visiting
era caiegones. ^ lecturers and professors, exchange
Suggestions J professors and students). InCurriculum changes which might' creased opportunities for faculty 
stimulate intellectual growth.! and student research on campus. 
Changes in other, more general j increased faculty salaries, 
areas which might enhance the inI Increased undergraduate scholtellectual power of the campus j arships and graduate fellowships, 
community. Increased opportunities for inCurriculum changes: More Stuformal student discussions. This 
dents would like to be able to j might point toward fuller studentelect existing courses in the folj faculty relations. Increased opporlowing areas, particularly in the, tunity for religious activity, which 
first six listed: languages, philosmany students feel is now hamophy, history, English, fine arts, | pered by the lack of a campus 
psychology, economics, sociology, j chapel.
and science.
All agree that the difficulty liesMortar Board offers these sug
gestions in the sincere and strong
in the inability of a student in hope that they will be taken to
one department to elect general heart.
courses in another college because ! ^
of overlapping scheduling, or |----------------------------------------------------
tight departmental curriculum 
planning, or arbitrarily limted en
rollment (one section of a courseSpring Carnival
when the we were enough poten
tial students for two). Many stu
dents now feel restricted by their 
schedules from broadening their 
knowledge outside their own de
partments.
Students would like to see the 
following courses added to Techs 
curriculum, again roughly in-the 
order listed: Religion (Old Testa
mentNew Testament Comparai 
tive, philosophy of religion, and a 
general survey of world religion), 
general courses in art, music, and 
home economics (designed for the 1
There will be a meeting of 
representatives of all organi
zations planning to partici
pate in the Plank Jousting at 
Spring Carnival. Each organ
ization should send one repre
sentative to Alpha Tau Omega 
at 8:00 Thursday, April 9. 
Copies of the rules will be dis
tributed at this time. If for 
some reason an organization 
cannot be present the repre
sentative should call Buff At
kinson at MU. 2-9412.
Explorers Sponsor 
School Of Climbing
The first session of the Explorers Club climbing school 
was held last Saturday afternoon. Scene of the action was the 
retaining wall and hill alongside the front entrance of En
gineering Hall.
Degree Rings
Degree rings must be or
dered by Friday, April 10 if 
you wish to have your ring 
by commencement. Orders 
may be placed after that date 
but delivery prior to com
mencement cannot be guaranteed. Orders may be placed 
with Mrs. Handley in tl^ 
Alumni Office, AH 240.
About twenty students attend 
the first session. Those prese 
had a chance to observe and pra 
tice some of the basic techniqu 
necessary for safe rock climbi: 
and cave exploring.- Items emph 
sized included belaying, or holdi 
a rope so that if the climber at t 
other end should fall, his weig 
can be held, and rappelling, 
descending a cliff or a rope in 
controlled manner.
Future Sessions
Future sessions of the schc 
will include more practice in b 
laying and rappelling, as well 
more advanced techniques such 
Prussik climbing, Bulgari resc 
technique, and cable ladder dim 
ing.
A full schedule of Sunday fie 
trips will give beginners a chan 
to try out their skill on real rod 
The group went to Ninety Fc 
Rocks, near Ligonier, last Sunda 
Other trips scheduled are: Hi; 
Rocks on April 12, McConnel 
Mill on April 19, and a weekei 
trip to Seneca Rocks on April 
and 26.
Beginners
Club members emphasize th 
the climbing school is intend 
especially for beginners, and t 
new faces are always welcon 
Those who missed the first sessi* 
but are interested in Explore] 
Club activities are urged to a 
te..nd the remaining climbing 
schoolmeetings Saturday after
noons at 1 p.m. during April, and 
the regular club meetings every 
Tuesday evening at 7:30 in AH 
125 A.
Meeting place for the Sunday 
trips is Skibo, at 8:30 a.m. Mem
bers of the Explorers Club can be 
identified by the official uniform, 
a bright red felt hat. '
Other activities of the club this 
year, in addition to rock climbing, 
have included explorng, both lo
cally and in the big cave coun
try of West Virginia, hiking, 
camping, and canoeing.
Explorer s Club Training School
Hugh Young (man on rope on right and J. P. Robinson (man on 
rope on left) demonstrating rope rapelling, a technique used to safely 
drop distances of up to 100 feet.
Scotch n Soda 
Presents Gay 
Nineties Parade
By B !I Pence
Thursday evening, April 2, the 
cast of the 1959 Scotch n Soda 
Show paraded down the streets 
of Shadyside not in the traditional
Dorm Dance
The Mens dormitory council is 
sponsoring a dance this Saturday, 
April 11, from 8:00-1:00 in the 
Donner Hall Lounge.
Refreshments will include beer, 
pop, and sandwiches. Music will 
be provided by the Lou Mann, 
Quintet. The deocrations are be
ing planned around a Roaring 
Twenties theme.
A number of the Administration 
are being invited to this dance in 
an attempt to improve the student-administration relations.
Metals Club
The Emerson Club will meet 
Sunday, April 5, at 3:00 p.m. at 
the First Unitarian Church, Ells
worth and Morewood Avenues. 
All area college students will en
joy the program, which will be 
followed by discussion and re
freshments. Make sure you jointhe group on alternate Sunday 
afternoons during April. Next 
meetingApril 19.
Emerson Club
The Metals Club recently elect
ed officers, who include: Cliff 
Rowden, president; Mike Georgelis, vice-president; Jim Beisler, 
treasurer; Hershell Tkatch, sec
retary; and Don Amore, social
chairman.
At the organizations last meet
ing, Professor Baldwin, professor 
of mechanical metallurgy at Case 
Institute, spoke on metallurgy 
education.
Home Ec. Club
Mrs. Diana Kaplan from the 
studio shop on lower Oliver Ave
nue will be the guest speaker at 
the Home Economics club meet
ing on Wednesday, April 15. Mrs, 
Kaplans subject will be Acces
sories for setting an attractive 
table. The meeting will take place 
at 3:30 in Mary Breed Hall. Re
freshments will be served after 
the meeting.
Scotch and Soda 
Crews
In its second month of re
hearsal, the Scotch n Soda 
Club announced today that it 
still has openings for Techites 
who would like to work in 
Setting Up Again the Scotch 
n Soda round theatre. B in
terested in participation on 
this crew, call Wade Biggs, 
MU 2-8768.
Carnegie Tartan but in dress 
the gay mineties and early twen
tieth century in a publicity pro
motion of KDKAs premiere of a 
new series of Paramount films, 
starting with The Victor Herbert 
Story.
Since Mr. Herbert once lived 
in Shadyside during the turn of 
the century, KDKA decided to 
remodel Walnut Street and re
place the furious fifty beat < 
eration with the quiet and so
phisticated Scotch n Sodaites, in 
costume of course. One might feel 
he were Mr. Herbert himself; the 
atmosphere of old cars, medicine 
men, women sufteragers, etc., was 
so vivid.
The enthusiastic cast of S n S 
not only agreed to do the stunt for 
the fun and experience involved, 
but also as a publicity stunt to 
further the sale of their o\li 
show, late this month.
In return for Scotch n Sodas 
participation, KDK-TV will give 
the club a great amount of atten
tion and publicity; in an attempt 
to bring the eyes of all Pittsburgh 
on the most unique of all Scotch 
n Soda shows: Set Em Up 
Again.
Newman Club 
A Monte Carlo Nite will M 
sponsored by PIFSCO this Friday 
evening at Chatham College in the 
gym at 8:30. There will be danc
ing, gambling, and refreshments, 
at the cost of $ .50.
A general meeting for all club 
members will be held Sunday, 
April 12, at 2:09 in the Cardinal 
Newman Hall. This will be the 
members chance to criticize, sug
gest, or make any comment aboui 
the club program. What is desi^ 
ed is a New Look Newman 
Club next year.
Father Biller concludes his lec
tures on ethics this Tuesday. The 
succeeding lecturers will be Fa
ther Louis Nene and Father Don
ald Mcllvane whose topics will be 
Ethics and Marriage and 
Church and State.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 8, 1959CARNEGIE TARTANPage 3
get Em Up Again 
Is A Revuesical
A great many of the students of Tech are now in the 
preparation of Scotch n Sodas 1959 musical comedy, Set 
Up Again a show which is unique in that it combines 
the two most prominent forms of musical comedy pre
sentation: the revue and the book show.
Because Set Em Up Again 
has characteristics of both types, 
it is neither called a revue or 
a musical. Rather, it is called a 
revuesical a revue with a plot 
line giving the show continuity. 
The Story 
there has been any mytery 
as xo the story of Set Em 
Again, an attempt will be made 
to solve it now. The show is ba
sically a musical satire on the 
contrast of romantic 
earthy playwrights, one roman
tic and the other earthy, who de 
cide to produce a musical comedy 
together since they have failed 
as playwrights working indepen
dency.
The result is a strange and hil
arious show; a poetic musical 
with guts, as one of the writers 
describes it in the play. The show 
features an endless variety of 
scenes, ranging from a rousing 
musical revolution in South Amer 
ica to a moving love sequence 
aboard an oceanliner.
V In The Round 
iPwill be presented in the most 
popular form of Scotch n Soda 
technique: theatre-in-the-round.
Last year, because of the desgin 
of the theatre, there were many 
sound problems which this year 
have been eliminated by relocat
ing the orchestra and by return
ing to the round stage which has 
proven its worth in previous 
years.
Diversified Board
e of the big reasons why Set 
Em Up Again can be called a 
new pace-setter in collegiate 
musicals lay in the fact that this 
years executive board, the gov
erning body of the club, is the 
largest and most diversified in its 
history.
The enthusiastic group of twelve 
range ift majors from language to 
drama, with engineering, printing 
aru^ others in between. Sally 
Lindsay, the president of the club, 
has had a great amount of stage 
and Scotch n Soda experience. 
Jim DiBlasis is the director and 
has had much experience in both 
drama and music.
Although only a sixth of the ex
ecutive board, Sally and Jim ex
emplify the great enthusiasm that 
has been a characteristic of this 
years show. It seems in fact as 
if :^eat campus interest has stir
red, as a result, in Set Em Up 
Again, even to the point where 
Scotch n Soda boasts the largest 
freshman membership in its his
tory.
Set Em Up Again will run 
during Techs Spring Carnival, 
April 27-30. Tickets will go on 
sale next week in Skibo or in the 
many student organizations that 
are now. buying group tickets for 
thdl^how.
Scholarships
Delta Delta Delta an
nounces Its annual local fund 
scholarships which can be 
applied for from now and 
until May 1, 1959.
Applications may be secur
ed at Mr. Swanks office, AH 
and must be filed on or 
before May 1.
These scholarships are open 
to all full time women stu
dents of CIT. Please note: 
These scholarships are sepa
rate and different from the 
scholarships offered by Delta 
Delta Delta earlier this semes
ter.
Pittsburgh Bacli
Choir To Present 
Brahms Requiem
Brahms Requiem will be fea
tured in a concert to be given on 
Saturday evening, April 25th, by 
the Bach Choir of Pittsburgh. A 
chorus of over 100 voices will be 
accompanied by an orchestra 
composed of members of the 
Pittsburgh Symphony.
The program will include Bachs
set
Well, at 
my clothes on.
Inquiring Reporter
Panty-Raids: Yes Or No
The Tartan Inquiring reporter 
asked for several student opinions 
on the following question: What 
do you think of panty raids? 
The answers follow:
George Paris: I guess its a 
more direct way for Tech students 
to relieve study frustrations. Too 
bad the Pittsburgh police force 
doesnt spend more time bang
ing those clubs against some of
the men of graft in this city 
rather than against a group of 
mostly innocent students.
A1 Walrner, Freshman, Archi
tecture: We should have more of 
them.
Dick Luppi: I never saw an 
event at this school so well at
tended by the student body. I 
especially think the Pittsburgh 
[continued on page 9]
d r a m a t ic cantata, Sleepers, 
Wake, which is based on the well 
known parable of the five wise 
and five foolish virgins.
Conductor
The chorus and orchestra will 
be under the direction of guest 
conductor James Evans. Dr. Evans 
is musical director of the Mt. Leb
anon United Presbyterian Church 
and dean of the Pittsburgh guild 
of organists.
Soloists will be Jeanne Leiper, 
soprano; David Sneddon, bass; and 
Richard Turbyfill, tenor. Mrs. 
Leiper is an award winner of the 
Pittsburgh Concert Societys maSummer Session
The Admission Office an
nounced last week that the 
1959 summer ses lion cata
logues, schedules, and appli
cations are now available.
jor auditions for 1958-59.
Current members of the Bach 
Choir include: Blair Battistini
and Gordon Love, students at 
Carnegie Tech. The concert will 
begin at 8:15 p.m. in Carnegie 
Music Hall.
S 'n $ Rehearsal
Lee Ligo holding Verna Robinson, as he prepares to Set 'Em Up 
Again on April 27-30. Show is now in the second month of re
hearsal.
On Campuswith3fe9fralraan
{By the Author of Rally Round the Flag, Boys! "and, 
Barefoot Boy with Cheek)
But college is more than just sleeping, eating, and studying. 
There are also many interesting activities which you must not 
miss. Youll want to give at least three hours a day to the campus 
newspaper, and, of course, another three hours each to the 
dramatic and music clubs. And lets say a total of eight hours 
daily to the stamp club, the debating club, and the foreign 
affairs club. Then, of course, nine or ten hours for fencing and 
bird-walking, and another ten or twelve for ceramics and threecard monte.
Finally we come to the most important part of each day 
what I call The Quiet Time. This is a period in which you 
renew yourselfjust relax and think great thoughts and smoke 
Marlboro Cigarettes. Why Marlboro? Because they are the 
natural complement to the active life. They have better makinV; 
the filter filters; the flavor is rich and mellow and a treat to the 
tired, a booft to the spent, a safe harbor to the storm-tossed. 
Thats why.
Well, Sonnenberg, I guess thats about all. Your kindly old 
mother sends her love. She has just finished putting up rather 
a large batch of picklesin fact, 350,000 jars. I told her that 
with you away at school, we would not need so many, but 
kindly old Mother is such a creature of habit that, though I hit 
her quite hard several times, I could not dissuade her.
Keep em flying,
Here** more advice to freshmenand upperclassmen too. 
If non-filter cigarettes are your pleasure, double your pleas
ure with Philip Morris, made by the makers of Marlboro,
HOW TO BE A 
THUMPING BIG SUCCESS ON CAMPUS
While up in the attic last week hiding from the tax man, I came 
across a letter, yellow with age, that dear old Dad had sent me 
when I was a freshman. I reproduce it below in the hope that 
it may light your way as it did mine.
Dear Son, (Dad always called me Son. This was short for 
Sonnenberg, which used to be my first name. I traded it last 
year with a man named Max. He threw in two outfielders and 
a left-handed pitcher .. . But I digress.)
Dear Son, (Dad wrote)
I suppose you are finding college very big and bewildering, 
and maybe a little frightening too. Well, it need not be that way 
if you will follow a few simple rules.
First of all, if you have any problems, take them to your 
teachers. They want to help you. Thats what they are there for. 
Perhaps they seem a little aloof, but that is only because they 
are so busy. You will find your teachers warm as toast and 
friendly as pups if you will call on them at an hour when they 
are not overly busy. Four a.m., for instance.
Second, learn to budget your time. What with classes, activi
ties, studying, and social life all competing for your time, it is 
easy to fall into sloppy habits. Set up a rigid schedule and stick 
to it. Remember, there are only 24 hours a day. Three of these 
hours must be spent in class. For every hour in class you must, 
of course, spend two hours studying. So there go six more 
hours. Then, as we all know, for every hour studying, you must 
spend two hours sleeping. This accounts for twelve more hours. 
Then there are mealsthree hours each for breakfast and lunch, 
four hours for dinner. Never forget, Sonnenberg, you must 
chew each mouthful twelve hundred times. You show me a 
backward student, and Fli show you a man who bolts his food.
 1959 Ed Shultota

---------------------------------------------------

Pife 4CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, April 8, 1959
Editorial
(OitOfcTO
Parity Raids: NO
Last Wednesday evening some 300 Tech 
men welcomed Spring288 of them success
fully, if the number 300 may be used, and 12 
not so successfully. The object of the wel
come  More wood Gardens; the exact out
come of the welcome  yet unknown. The 
actual success of those not apprehended is 
still to be determined through CIT student 
government channels. It is certain, however, 
that definite action will be taken, unlike last 
year.
The unfortunate consequences ensuing 
from such incidents as Techs panty-raid 
are easy to comprehend, if one will take the 
time to think about them. First, there is the 
danger of harm to individuals and to prop
erty. What may begin as a group of students 
in search of prankish fun could easily turn 
into an uncontrollable mob, capable of doing 
unestimable damage. This is the prevailing 
view both of the Carnegie administration and 
of the Pittsburgh police. Again, although 
damage is not the intent of any group of 
Tech students, it must be eralized that there 
is great likelihood of a crowds becoming a 
mob under such circumstances as last those 
of Wednesday eveningregardless of the fact that this out
come may be wholly unanticipated.
A second major consequence of such incidents is the ad
verse publicity received by Tech and by college students in 
general. The unfortunate implications of a newspaper head
line such as Twelve Tech Men In Morals Court need not 
be explained. All colleges generally wish the good-will of 
the local residents. Moreover, in as much as Carnegie is pres
ently in the midst of its building and development program, 
the school is especially dependent on Pittsburghers sup
port. Adverse publicity cannot help but affect Techs posi
tion in Pittsburgh. Thus, it should be the responsibility of 
all students to conduct themselves in a manner becoming 
both to themselves and to their school.
The Tartan prefers to view last Wednesdays incident 
as a prankish welcome to Spring, and nothing else. More
over, the Tartan feels that once Tech students realize the 
harmful consequences of such incidents, the students them
selves will put an end to this dangerous fun and will look 
for an acceptable way to let off steam.
The administration realizes the need for some means of 
welcoming Spring and has asked for student suggestions 
to solve the problem. In answer to this request, the Tartan 
would like to propose a spring street-dance which would be 
as nearly spontaneous as possible. It is suggested that on one 
of the first warm evenings in Spring, Morewood Avenue 
be blocked off or the Morewood Gardens circle be cleared 
of cars, a combo or loud-speaker system be set up, and all 
Morewood residents be given 12:30s. The arrangements 
could be handled by the mens and womens dormitory 
councils. The street-dance should remain unannounced until 
the evening it takes place. This is one suggestionthe ad
ministration will welcome all others. C.E.S.
Yu3 f*
J'M
\M0i ! Te=?pwu/
<To
IBaniiu
00 'too Tb Vne tht
Reade rdseWit.^CA WN^E cf*mpv>*> is 
oo -the p*m?v stem.?
estateColt.
C?uftural 
C^a fendi
Suspension For Raiders: ISO
The subject of punishment for those persons involved 
in the attempted panty raid by organizing it or by actually 
going into Morewood has been under discussion all over the 
campus during the past week.
The current Administration opinion (more specifically, 
the opinion of Dr. G. K. Brown, head of the Division of Stu
dent Personnel and Welfare) seems to be that all implicated 
persons should be punished through either expulsion or sus
pension from the University.
Unquestionably, the situation last Wednesday was a 
potentially dangerous one; unquestionably certain wrongs 
were committed. But the Tartans opinion is that even a 
short term suspension for those responsible is by far too 
harsh. While certainly the principle of the raid was very 
wrong, nevertheless the facts are that in this case no real 
damage was dofie and no one was injured. The persons who 
did go inside were in areas where they are permitted to be 
anyway. The persons who led the raid, while responsible 
for a potentially dangerous situation, nevertheless did a 
sufficiently poor job that nothing really happened.
In addition there is no clear-cut ruling stating what 
punishment would be imposed for participating in an unap
proved student demonstration. It is one thing if the admin(Continued on Page 9)
ur
By Barb Jones
The high point of cultural 
events in the coming week is the 
Pittsburgh Operas presentation of 
Lucia Di Lammermoor, featur
ing Roberta Peters and conducted 
by Richard Karp. Performances 
will be the evenings of April 9 
and 11 at the Syria Mosque, start
ing at 8:15 p.m. Student tickets 
are available in the Fine Arts 
office.
The' eighteenth pair of sym
phonic programs on April 12 and 
12 will feature Joseph Fuchs, vio
lin soloist. The program will in
clude Berliozs Overture, Roman 
Carnival, Hindemiths Violin 
Concerto, and Mahlers Symphony 
No. 4 in G Major.
Tuesday, April 14, at 8:30 p.m. 
the singer, Mahalia Jackson, will 
perform at the Mosque.
JAZZ
Jazz programs have captured 
the spotlight this spring. The first 
will be Don Crokers Jazz at the 
Carbarn concert which will be 
presented at 8:30 p.m., Friday, 
April 10, in the Carnegie Lecture 
Hall. Dons a Tech music major 
and an excellent pianist. His 
group will include Dick Hiller, 
bass; Roger Ryan, drums; Don 
Stanier, tenor sax; Danny Conn, 
trumpet, Jill Freedman, vocalist. 
Tickets are only 99c and can be 
obtained at Woodlawn Pharmacy, 
The Encore, and Sam Goodys.
Wednesday, April 22, a musical 
revue will take place at the 
Mosque. People, such as Clyde 
McPhatter, Le Vern Baker, Lloyd 
Price, Frankie Lymon, The Coast
ers, and many others will make up 
the program. Performances are at 
7:30 and 10:30 p.m. Tickets range 
from $1.75 - $3.75 and can be
Free Cigarettes
The Tartan is pleased to 
announce that each person 
writing a letter to the Editor 
which  is published In the 
TARTAN will receive a free 
carton of Marlboro Cigarettes. 
These free gifts to Tartan 
readers are made possible 
through a cooperative ar
rangement between the cam
pus representative of the 
Philip Morris company, Harry 
Desilates and The TARTAN.
C. 0. R. C. P. R. T. S.
Blenheim was appalled by the immature j 
action of the C.I.T. student body at last Wed 
nesday nights panty raid. Such childish 
demonstrations should be reserved for our 
more distinguished Yale brethren, for when 
they set out to do something they do it ri 
Our raid lacked organization, depth, and 
titude. Our so-called student leaders just 
stood by and allowed it to fizzle out and die. 
This is inexcuseable.
If the student body at Tech will not do 
justice to the honorable name of panty 
raid I believe it is up to the administration 
to do so.
Blenheim suggests that our enlighte 
administration create a committee (with 
permission of student congress, of course) 
for the organization and management of an annual raid that 
will restore dignity to our much maligned campus. This com
mittee would be composed of a few of the local rowdys who 
will supply it with a number of juicy new ideas, a few cam 
pus leaders who will do nothing but have to be there because 
no committee would be complete without them, a few print
ers to run the thing because they dont have anything els^o 
do.
Blenheim believes that if this is done our annual raid 
(with an alumni sponsored panty subsidy) can be run quietly 
and honorably without the assistance of the absurd local 
keystone cops.
Thus every April first the student body can look forward 
to an ideal frustration-leter-outer without trouble fuss or 
bails. The CIT administration might as well resign itselfto 
the fact that these things will occur occasionally no matter 
how much force or moral suasion is applied. They should take 
advantage of this and take a truly liberal stand and form the 
C.O.R.C.P.R.T.S. (Committee for the Organization of Rather 
Clever Panty Raids and Telephone Booth Stuffings).
Blenheim
obtained at the box office, R. E. 
Maltz Agency, Hornes and Gimbels.
Erroll Gardner will be making 
a concert appearance at the Mos
que, Thursday, April 30, at 8:30 
p.m. The entire program will be 
extemporized in the usual Gard
ner style. Tickets range from 
$2.00 - $4.00 and are available at 
the R. E. Baltz Agency, Hornes 
and Gimbels.
Drama And Art 
A new musical revue, To the 
Point, opened at the Playhouses
Craft Avenue Theater. The Rope 
Dancers is playing at the The^jtr 
Upstairs.
The 49th Exhibit of the Asso
ciated Artists Show will continue 
through April 19 at the Carnegie 
Institute. Its comparable to the 
International according to a cer
tain reviews.
A Tech graduate, Lois Becker 
Shook, has a display of her paint
ings at the Squirrel Hill Theater. 
Its worth seeing a movie just to 
get the opportunity to see frr 
showing.
*3fcCARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, 
Pa. Office phone, MU 2-4557; Co-Editors EM 1-7157 and MU 2-9053; 
Advertising Manager; MU 2-8851. Published weekly during the sc^ol 
year except holidays and examination periods by the students of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Ce-Editor ...........;.......................................................................................................... Carol Soobjr
Co-Editor ....................................................................................................................... Richard Wiley
Business Manager ..................................................................................................... Lte Adelsber;
Associate Editor ............................................................................................................... David Dull
News Editor ........................................................................................................... Jan Notopoulos ~l
Sporta Editor ................................................................................................................. George Paris J
Copy Editor .................................................................................................................. Jerry Sull^van J
Assistant News EditorJan Notopoulos, Photography EditorAlan Gickler, Assistant Business ManagerMichael D. Balsam, Advertising Manager  Miles Hollander, Assistant Advertising Manager  Mark 
Seltzer, SecretaryRena Siegel, Circulation ManagerGary Brandenburger, TransportationGene Rietzke. W
News Staff  Mike Brunt, Dori Cline, Linda Friedlob, Sally 
Ganong, Paul Hess, Phil James, Beth Liden, Arlene Logioco, Bill 
Mohney, Betsy Moss, Bob Nowak, Terrie Rudy, Carolyn Saxton, Ira 
Shapiro, Georgia White, Lois Wolfe.
Sports StaffDick Hamilton, Mike Beaman, Chuck Vodrarka. 
Copy StaffFrank Baloh, Spence Anderson, Mary Anne Meltn, Janis Geisler, Roger Fager, Jim Whalen.
Circulation StaffJim Phillips, Larry Dominik.
Second class postage paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.Represented tor national advertising by National Advertising. Inc.
(I

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday. April g, 1959CARNEGIE TARTANPaff %
The Search for America, In ad
dition, he has written two books, 
TheReligion of Man, publish
ed in 1958, and The Purpose of 
Higher Education, published in
Engltoh: CAMPUS TOUGH GUY
Thinklish translation: This character belongs to the beat generation, 
as any black-and-blue freshman can testify. When he cracks a book, 
I) ^ ends up in two pieces. His favorite subject: fistory. Favorite sport:
throwing his weight around. Favorite cigarette? Luckies, what else? 
Puffing on the honest taste of fine tobacco, hes pleased as Punch. If 
you call this muscle bounder a schooligan, bully for you!
Dr. Smith is a member of Phi 
Beta Kappa, the American Philo
sophical Association, and the Nationcil Council on Religion. In 
1958, Central College awarded 
him an honorary doctor of hu
manities degree.
English: UNHAPPY MARRIAGE
SCRATCHING
SPATRllAONY
k'l uoWisH
nOS.L0 TRltO C0.6 
itor, heInnarblwlThink fish: FLEAGLE
ROBERT O RIEN. WISCONSIN STATE COLL.
KioseiieCo*"tC
English : ILL TYRANT
HOWTO 
MAKE *25
Take a wordcelebration, for example. 
With it, you can have a football rally 
(ydlebration), a gossipy bridge party (tellebrcUion), or a clambake (sheUebration); 
Thats Thinklishand its that easy! 
Were paying $25 for the Thinklish words 
judged bestyour check is itching to go! 
Send your words to Lucky Strike, Box 
67A, Mt. Vernon, N. Y. Enclose your 
name, address, university and class.
Thinklish: SICKTATOR
" SU1|SS, TAHitTO !t, . .
Get the genuine article 11
Get the honest taste of a LUCKY STRIKEMr FRAT BROTHERS CALL ME A CLOSET CAS E.
Assembly To Open 
Conference Week
By Georgia White
Dr. Huston Smith, professor of philosophy in the depart
ment of humanities at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
will address the Tech community, April 14, at 11:30 a.m. in 
the Fine Arts Theatre on the general topic of developing an
adequate system of values in this^-----------------------------------------------
modern age.lech Frofessors 
Receive Science 
Foundation Grant
Dr. Smiths speech is correlated 
with a special Campus Conference 
on Religion sponsored by the 
Committee on Religious Affairs 
and will officially open the con
ference week which will extend 
from April 14 to April 21.
Discussion Groups 
Various groups, including soriorities, fraternities, dorm and re
ligious organizations, participating 
in the Conference will use Dr. 
Smiths address as a starting point 
in discussions to be held through
out the week.
According to Nat Treich, stu
dent chairman of the Campus 
Conference on Religion, each of 
these discussion groups will have 
faculty sponsor.
Dr. Smith was born and spent 
his boyhood in China, where his 
parents were missionaries. Since 
then he has visited nineteen dif
ferent countries. Dr. Smith was 
graduated from Central College in 
Missouri, and was awarded a Ph.D. 
at the University of Chicago.
In 1957 Dr. Smith was granted 
a Danforth Foundation award 
which allowed him to extend his 
search in his special field comarative philosophies and re
ligions.
One of the pioneers in adult 
education through television, Dr. 
Smith has filmed three series 
The Religion of Man, Science 
and Human Responsibility, and
The National Science Founda
tion has recently awarded a re
search grant to two CIT profes
sors to obtain data on problems 
associated with the cold rolling of 
metal strips.
While much is already known 
on the subject as a result of prac
tical mill operations, little analyt
ical research has been done, ac
cording to Professors Carl F. Zorowski and Alvin S. Weinstein of 
the department of mechanical en
gineering at Tech.
Banquet
[continued from page 1] 
Class of 1959 reunion is an ino-; 
vation this year. The election will' 
be held at the banquet. Previousj 
ly this committee has been chosen 1 
by the Federation, but it is felti 
that such an honor will be more' 
meaningful and have more backj 
ing if the committees members! 
are elected by the class.
The development fund kick-off 
at the banquet will begin a drive 
for contributions and pledges to 
Building and Development Fund. 
No solicitations, however, will be 
made at the banquet. During the 
ten-day period following the ban
quet, each senior will be contact
ed by a member of his department 
for this purpose.
The chairman of the Building 
and Development Fund, Mr. H. 
Russell Bintzer hopes that the 
seniors contributions will help to 
inspire older alumni to aid Car
negie in its admancement.
The committee emphasizes that 
this is not the primary purpose of 
the banquet, that no contributions 
will be solicited there, and that 
the Alumni Federation plans to 
continue financing senior banquets 
long past the completion of the 
Development Fund Drive. Cer
tainly a lack of interest in the De
velopment Fund should not keep 
any senior from attending his 
class banquet.
Art Exhibit
The CIT College of Fine 
Arts announces an exhibition 
of drawings selected from the 
permanent collection of Car
negie Institutes Department 
of Fine Arts.
The exhibition ill be shown 
In the Hewlett Gallery in Fine 
Arts through April 24.
Since there is presently no class 
organization, a Class of 1959 Or
ganization Committee was select
ed from active seniors of every 
college by Mr. Jack Johnson, na
tional chairman of the Alumni 
Federation, and Dr. Dale Strick, 
coordinator of Student Activities.
The committee will plan the 
banquet and fund drive, and set 
up the election of the class re
union committee. The organiza
tion committee elected Bob Cleve
land, presently president of Stu
dent Congress, as its chairman. 
Dick Clemm is the publicity 
chairman and Fran Bebic, the sec
retary. The other members are 
Tom Bieg, A1 Duchan, Dave Dull, 
Jan Felmeth, Lou Pondy, Pete 
Sargent, Ray Smith, and Ruth 
Vysoky.
Religion
[continued from page 11 
and outlooks in these modern, 
times. He is the author of a re
cent book on higher education.
Following the assembly, a 
luncheon will be held for Profes
sor Smith and all interested stu
dents at 12:30 in the More wood 
Gardens Blue Room.
During the week after the as
sembly talk there will be a num
ber of discussion groups going on, 
moderated by faculty people. 
These separate discussions will 
take place in already established 
organizations including fraterni
ties, sororities, religious groups, 
living unitSj and other campus or
ganizations.
The purpose of these group dis
cussions is to talk over what Pro
fessor Smith said at the assembly, 
plus additional ideas and com
ments that individuals have in 
this area of thought.
This is the fiist time such a 
program has been attempted here 
at Tech.
The success oi this years con
ference depends upon participa
tion. To those who feel that re
ligion is not only ceremony and 
church attendance, but embodies 
that which is * of prime concern, 
the discussions will be a potential
ly worthwhile program.
THINKUSH

---------------------------------------------------

race CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, April , 159
//.. ROTCGuidon
Preparation Pays Off 
At First Day Of Camp
By J. Florkowski
The first day at camp is perhaps the longest of the 40 
days to be completed. But it can be shortened fatigue-wise 
if you know beforehand when to arrive and what to do at 
the camp.
Registration is possible between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. of
your first day. If you register ? 
early, however, your enthusiasm 
is immediately perceived by your 
platoon sergeant so that after 
your personal equipment is in or
der, you spend much of the day 
performing work details such as 
unloading trucks. On the other 
hand, a later arrival arouses the 
temper of the usually mild-man
nered registration personnel. Bas
ed on experience an optimum 
time is between noon and 2 p.m.
Registration
After a brief welcome and in
formative talk concerning your 
responsibilities, duties and priv
ileges you sign in, and then re
port for your travel allowances 
(5c per mile) and cadet company. 
Next you go to your company | 
area, have a short chat with your 
amiable First Sergeant, then pro
ceed to your home which has 
a six-digit number that reminds 
you of boldly striped clothing 
worn by selected people!
Equipment
Personal equipment not includ
ing rifle is signed for and then 
prepared in the prescribed man
ner. Your bunk must be made, 
equipment stacked neatly on a 
shelf, footlocker arranged and 
civilian clothes hung up. At last 
the party can begin!
This party is a mandatory one, 
however, and is popularly known 
as a G.I. Party. Using G.I. water, 
G.I. brushes, G.I. mops, G.I. 
buckets, G.I. wax and cadet mus
cles the barracks do, in fact, get 
quite clean! And so your team of 
40 buddies ends the first day like 
it will end the 41stpulling to
gether!
Code Of Conduct 
Binds The Soldier 
Even As Prisoner
The fourth point of the code is: 
If I become a prisoner of war, I 
will keep faith with my fellow 
prisoners. I will give no inform
ation or take part in any action 
which might be harmful to my 
comrades. If I am senior, I will 
take command. If not, I will obey 
the lawful orders of those ap
pointed over me and will back 
them up in every way.
If one should happen to have 
information that a fellow prisoner 
of his is accepting favors from 
the enemy for some service j 
which may be harmful in time to 
the individuals comrades, he 
should see that something is done. 
Disobedience and disregard for 
ones fellow prisoners can not go 
unpunished. One should never 
place his own welfare above that 
of the others he is associated with.
It must also be remembered that j 
even though an individual is capj 
tured he does not lose his rank. | 
If he is a lieutenant when captur
ed, he assumes his position in the 
camp as a lieutenant. Likewise a 
senior officer assumes command 
of the captured troops immediate
ly upon appointment to the c^mp. 
Some prisoners may not feel that 
the senior is the best man for the 
job; however, he is the rightful 
commander and must be recogniz
ed as such. Therefore it is up to 
the senior to immediately accept 
the responsibility and to operate
P. R. Drill Team 
To Participate In 
National Meet
Thursday, April 9th, the Persh
ing Rifles drill team will leave for 
Washington, D. C., on a bus pro
vided by the 2nd Army. On Fri
day the team will participate in 
the National ROTC Invitational 
Drill Meet which is being held in 
conjunction with the Cherry 
Blossom Festival.
The CIT drill team will be com
peting with some of the top drill 
teams from all over the United 
States. On Saturday night the team 
will march in the Cherry Blossom I 
Parade, which will be televised.
Army Designs 
Cool Cathode
F. J. Fraikor *
Development of a new, coolrunning radio tube, considered the 
first major breakthrough in basic 
tube design in more than thirty 
years, was recently announced by 
the department of the Army.
Cold Cathode
The radically new tube oper
ates on an entirely new cold 
cathode principle discovered by 
Dr. D. Dobischek tf the U.S. Army 
signal research laboratory, Fort 
Monmouth, N.J. While experi
menting on field-enhanced sec
ondary emission, Dr. Dobischek j 
noticed that one of his experij 
mental tubes kept running, even 
though he turned off the primary 
current.
Cold Cathode
Working on this lead, he per-! 
fected a surface that would con
tinue to emit electrons indefintely,
, which subsequently lead to the 
development of an experimental 
tube in which the red hot cathode 
element ordinarily used to gen
erate electrons was eliminated and 
 replaced by a cold cathode, a tiny 
nickel cylinder specially coated 
with porous magnesium oxide J 
(chemically identical to dried 
milk of magnesia). Instead of 
heat, a high voltage field causes 1 
the electron flow, which in turn 
produces the tubes characteristic 
phosphorescent blue glow.
This reaction requires a barely 
perceptible amount of electricity ( 
about 5 millionths of a watt! 
(Future designs promise to be 
even more efficient.)
The new tube could create a 
fcontinued on page 7]
the unit as he sees fit.
There are, howecer, two cases 
in which the men may elect their 
own leader. These are in the case 
of disability to the senior officer 
or at a time when no senior is 
present. If the detaining power i 
will not recognize a prisoners 
right to organize, it is necessary 
for the men to form an under
ground. An organization is rec
ognized as essential, if for the 
| morale factor alone. Resistance, 
escape, and ability to survive can 
only be attained through the co
operation of all the captives as 
a group.
Summer Camp 
Is Your Home
By Fred Ford
An iron bed and a footlocker 
a new home for six weeks. A 
platoon sergeantmother and fa
ther rolled into one. This is sum
mer camp for 600 ROTC juniors 
and seniors, and the beginning of 
a new experience for them all.
No sooner do you arrive then 
you find yourself in the midst of 
army tradition, partaking of the 
GIs time honored right to stand 
int line. This ones not bad, how
ever, for its your first summer 
camp money which you receive 
upon reporting and saluting.
Platoon Sergeant
Seocnd platoons over right 
around the comer; report to your 
platoon sergeant. Alls wTell and 
good so far, but lets hope youre 
not the first cadet in. Punctuality 
is a virtue, but painting the bar
racks while waiting for the others 
to arrive is plain hard work.
In the first week you receive 
clothing, a physical, and a pre
liminary introduction to the 6 a.m. 
sun, with which you will become 
familiar in the next month and a 
half. The clothing issue consists of 
fatigues (not a uniform for loung
ing around) and suntans. Also the 
army provides two pairs of com
bat boots to provide experience in 
shoe shining.
Physical
The army physical is the next 
encounter in a soldiers life. On 
entering the medical barracks, 
noted for its perpetual corridors, 
you exchange your clothes for a 
green bathrobe and a pair of slip
pers in w'hich you softly pad 
down the corridors in search of 
the eye doctor. Three hours later 
you emei'ge from the caverns, 
temporarily blinded by the sun 
and certified in the pink of con
dition. Youll need to be for 
whats ahead.
Next come the welcoming and 
i introductory lectures from the 
cadre at camp. The next time you 
gather for these .talks youll be 
able to look back upon your six 
weeks. The first week is rounded 
out by two days of rifle qualifica
tion. The first phase is on the 
known distance ranges, where 
you fire for score on stationary 
targets. Later you will fire on the 
transition ranges, in which targets 
1 pop out of the ground as you walk 
along.
Second Week
In the second week the real 
work begins. After each days 
daily dozen (performed before 
breakfast) you visit some train
ing area for instruction. During 
 this week you get a first hand 
taste of tear gaswith and with| out maskand also of chlorine 
gas, this time with a well fitted 
mask. Most of one day is set aside 
| for minefield instruction. Watch 
j where you walk on this onethe 
whole place is booby-trapped and 
mined, and youll get a badge of 
honor if you set one off.
Most cadets enjoy their brief 
training with the machine gun. Its 
a real experience to watch a 
string of bullets through the sights 
of a machine gun, and to feel the 
solid pounding of the stock 
' on your shoulder. You might even 
get to play fireman that day, for 
the incindiaries used always start 
small fires out in the bone dry 
target area.
Pole Climbing
At the end of the week you 
have an opportunity to play 
jockey-pole jockey that is. No 
other job requires the use of more 
non-existent muscles in the body . 
than does pole-climbing with 
spurs. Better forget your frustra
tions, my boy. Dont hug that pole 
or youll get a collection of splin
ters.
Finally this week youll run a ! 
. compass courseat night. This 
course has only small stakes to 
mark positionsthis requires the 
use of a compass and not dead 
reckoning. The enemies on this 
maneuver are mosquitoes and 
swamps. Rumor hath it that water ; 
; moccasins resent the intrusion, but j
1 the worst that any cadets suffered I
was shoulder deep water (have 
faith in the army men, theres a 
cadre-man there to save you if 
you go under in the dark).
Third Week
The third week is devoted most
ly to classroom work on signal 
equipment. Most of the class 
rooms are actually tents, but you 
had better keep your mind on the 
lesson as quizzes are given after 
each session. In this week you 
study the switchboards, teletype
writers, and radios that are used 
in the next two weeks in the field.
During each of the weeks at 
camp, days are set aside for sports. 
The camp is organized in to -com
pany competition in softball, vol
leyball, swimming and other 
sports. The competition is keen, 
and some excellent teams are pro
duced.
Usually there are no formal 
duties on Sunday and you have 
that day free for recreation. In 
fact most weeks are over for the 
majority of cadets after the Sat
urday parade in which the various 
companies are in competition much 
as on our own drill field. Only
three weeks gone and it seemMfes 
though youve been in the army 
for a year!
Editors Note: This is the second 
of a series of articles pertaining 
to Summer Camp. These articles 
were written by the members of 
the senior class in order that the 
rest of us will be better prepared 
for the mysteries of summer 
camp.
Thanks Extended 
To Cadre, Cadets 
For Cooperation
The Guidon Staff would like to 
extend its thanks to the cadre of 
the Tech military department and 
also to the ROTC cadets for the 
cooperation given us in the dis
tribution and filling in the recent 
ROTC Guidon questionnaire. We 
feel that this is your section and 
we want to publish only articles 
whicfr are of interest to you. 
Thanks for helping us find out 
what you want.
We require a B.S. or an advanced degree 
in mathematics or .the physical sciences. 
Experience in your universitys computing 
facility is highly desirable.
SPACE TECHNOLOGY
Offers work of the future 
...today!
Computer programmers & 
applied mathematicians
High speed digital computers and expanding 
computing systems require individuals 
with more than the usual amount of 
interest and ability in the fields of Applied 
Mathematics and related computer 
programming.
Our Computation and Data Reduction 
Center in Southern California is one of the 
largest and most advanced facilities in 
the nation. Three of the largest and most 
modern high-speed digital computers 
(IBM 709, 704, and UNIVAC 1103A) are 
utilized in the support of Systems Engineering' 
for the Air Force Ballistic Missile Program 
and space flight studies.
Contact your placement office for an 
application, or send any inquiries to Space 
Technology Laboratories, Inc. to 
the attention of Mr. Gerald Backer.
Space Technology ^E| 
Laboratories, Inc.
P.O. Eox 95004, Los Angeles 45, California


---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April S, 1959 CARNEGIE TARTANPat I
NEC
o4m[
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor ............................................................................... Dennis DeStefano
Typist.......................................................................... Grace Jo Plant
Circulation Manager .......................................................... Jim Morrisard
fea)
Banquet To Be Held 
At The Adams House
By Ronald Craig 
The chairman of the evening student banquet was in
structed to find an extraordinary place to hold this years 
Evening Student Banquet and he certainly should be con
gratulated on his choice. ?--------------------------------------------------
Evening Student 
Council Accepts 
Three Members
At its March meeting Evening 
Student Council accepted into 
membership Grace Jo Plant, Shir
ley Kriedwise, and Joseph De Leo.
All three new members were 
given assignments *to assist coun
cil activties. Grace Jo Plant will 
assist Dennis DeStefano, Plaid 
Editor, Joseph De Leo was ap
pointed chairman of advertising 
for the Evening Students Ban
quet, and Shirley Kriedwise will 
report on Newman Club activi
ties.
Aid Activities
Dr. Robert S. Ramsay also at
tended the meeting at councils in
vitation to advise and assist in
suggesting methods to aid counci 
activities.
At the next meeting of council 
on April 5, candidates for the 
achievement award will be inter
viewed and there will be an elec
tion of officers for the year 1959- 
1960.
He has made our reservation at 
the Adams House located on old 
Route 30, East near Irwin.
The Adams House is compara
tively new as a supper club, but 
quite old as the home of one of 
ur Western Pennsylvania coal 
barons. Mr. Albert Adams, the 
owner, has preserved the original 
decor of early American through
out and has added a touch of the 
. charm of a Southern mansion in 
the extremenly high ceilinged 
main dining room with its crystal 
chandeliers and huge fireplace.
The Evening Student Banquet 
keeps you in your seat for a 
rather long time since we must 
eat, listen, and perhaps receive a 
door prize before the dancing be
gins. The Adams House must
have been thinking of us because 
their banquet chairs are a very 
comfortable early American 
Captains design. So you can come 
prepared to sit comfortably.
The management of the Adams 
House has also for us a good
dance band and floor show. And
this year those of you who hire 
baby sitters for the evening, or 
who wish to leave early will stilt 
be able to see the floor show
since it will go on at approxi
mately 10:15 and continue for at 
least 45 minutes.
Lets all plan to attend our
banquet this year. Remember its 
April 25 at 6:00 p.m. at the 
Adams House. Purchase your 
tickets in Mr. McKelways office 
now!
Student Council 
Members Point 
Totals Are Listed
Due to space limitations in last 
weeks Plaid the list of points 
earned by Evening Student Coun
cil members was not published.
The following is a list of how 
these people stand point-wise as 
of March 1, 1959:
Ronald H. Craig ... 15 points 
Dennis C. De
Stefano ............... 12 points
Donald Morin ........ 9 points
Jim Morrisard .. .11 points 
Andy Oravitz .... 18 points 
Mary Alice
Peterson .............. 10 points
Victor Sabol ........ 14 points
Dan Smyers..........23 points
Jancy Spannuth ... 8 points
Harry Thom .......... 5 points
Charles Wol f -----9% points
Marlene Zappa .... 11 points
T. McCarthy .......... Vz point
B. Sprogue .............. 1 point
John Jenkins ........ 6 points
P R Drill Team 
Takes Third
by Dick Waina
Last Saturday. April 4th, the 
Pershing Rifles Di'ill Team swept 
four third places in the First Bat
talion Drill Meet at Erie, Pa.
The first event was quad drill. 
The eight man squad, led by Jack 
Wilson, led by Ivan E. Suther
land, performed its movements
with the snap and precision that
is so important in competition.
Ira Shapiro, competing against 
upperclassmen from other school^ 
copped third place in the indivi
dual drill competition. The pep* 
formance of the entire Pershing 
Rifles company of Tech enabled 
them to capture third place over* 
all in the drill meet. The day waj 
completed with an inspection by 
the acting regimental commander 
from Penn State, Lt. Col. Freihlet,
UNDERSTANDING 
THE BIBLE
For free booklet to help you, write:
Christadelphia Bible Society 
3220 Nottingham Drive 
Pittsburgh 35, Pa.
Cathode[continued from page 6] 
revolution in tube design by mak
ing possible the first reliable sec-f 
ondary emission multiplier  
potentially the worlds highest 
gain amplifier tube. Until now, 
the secondary emission type of 
tube has generally failed because 
the hot cathode contaminated the 
other elements in the glass envelopet By eliminating the hot cath
ode, the new tube solves this 
problem and test models are un
der design.
Due to its potential reliability, 
the tube may outlast any equip
ment in which it is used. The new 
tube is so adaptable to all types 
of electron tubes that future radios 
and TV sets equipped with cold 
tubes may rarely if ever need 
tube replacement.
Heat Resistant
With regard to its military ap
plications, the Army has discov
ered the new tube is extremely 
resistant to heat and atomic radi
ation, making it very suitable in 
military equipment which must 
withstand exposure to a nuclear 
blast or the searing heat of a mis
sile nose-cone. .
Newman Club 
Art Exhibit
Evening School Newman Club 
is inviting all potential artists to 
enter their {yiest works in an art 
exhibition.
It is not necessary to be an 
art student; any student may 
enter. So get busy on your entry 
today! Who knows, you many 
be discovered. The purpose of this 
exhibit is to foster, in other stu
dents and people of Pittsburgh, a 
greater appreciation of art.
Judging
All entries will be examined 
by a qualified panel, and the best 
ones will be placed on exhibit at 
Cardinal Newman Hair from April 
12 to the 18.
Any media is acceptable. School 
work that has been graded may 
be submitted. Current semester 
work, however, should not be 
entered unless advised by your 
instructor. All prints, collages, 
drawings, and watercolors must 
be suitably and neatly mounted 
or matted. Oil paintings should 
be edge-taped or simply framed. 
Entry blanks are available at 
Cardinal Newman Hall, 125 North 
Craig Street; Fine Arts Building, 
and Mr. McKelways office.
All entry blanks must be re
turned to: Cardinal Newman Hall, 
125 North Craig Street, Pittsburgh 
13, or Evening School, Newman 
Club, P.O. Box 264, Pittsburgh 13, 
no later than April 10, 1959.
All entries must be at Cardinal 
Newman Hall no later than April 
10, 1959. Please state on entry 
whether or not the work was 
done under instruction.
Dr. Warner
Dr. J. C. Warner, president 
of Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology has accepted the invi
tation to speak at the Evening 
Students Banquet. However, 
since he is out of the country 
at the present, we were un
able to pin him down as to 
what his subject will be. Be 
did hint that he may speak on 
his present tour of Pakistan.
soft! What taste from
yonderFILTER BLEND
n's WHATS UP FRONT THAT COUNTS
This filter, be it eer so pure and white 
Must needs give flavor too, full clear and bright 
Else would the trusting smoker, filled with hope 
Again be dashed, dejected be ... and mope.
And thus we come to Winstons obvious truth 
Its whats up front that counts and tis, forsooth 
In that the fine tobaccos, in the end 
Are by exclusive processFilter-Blend
Become the tastiest taste that eer hath played 
Across your dancing taste-buds, man or maid!
Be ye not slow, therefore, to test the wit 
Of what we say: that Winston, friend, is /Y;
For that with evry smoke ye do delay 
Ye are not gathring rosebuds while ye may!
44We are advertised by our loving friends.*
MING HCNIf. SC. H
Ho mo eS'n$( Onitffn fnoo c-'On'Tt$Co Ao fo

---------------------------------------------------

Pase SCARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, April 8. 1959
Dr. Warner Was 
A Busy Student
When he was a student at Indiana University, Jake** 
Warner played the violin in the campus symphony, starred on 
the varsity wrestling team, and competed in the football field 
against rugged opponents, some twice his size.
Meanwhile, he established such4-----------------------------------------------------
a reputation as a scholar that a 
friend later was to say of him:
Jake could pass anything at 
Indiana, except the Delta Gamma 
house.
The attraction at the sorority 
was a charming co-ed: Louise
Hamer, who in time became Mrs. 
Warner.
Today, as president of Carnegie 
Tech, Dr. John Christian Warner 
(he has no idea who first named 
him Jake) still loves music and 
sports but laments his lack of time 
to enjoy them.
A short sturdy man, with a 
quiet brown eyes and a perpetual 
wrinkle on his brow, Dr. Warner 
is a pipe smoker, with a medita
tive manner that blends with the 
haze and frangranee of Edgeworth 
tobacco that are a part of his per
sonality.
Relaxation
A friend says of his deliberate
ness: He has the capacity to 
think out his problems.
A healthy sixty, Dr. Warner is 
blessed with an appetite that re
lishes almost any dish, and a 
temperament that permits him to 
forget administrative matters 
when its time for sleep or re
laxation.
The two weeks of the year priz
ed most by Dr. Warner are the 
summertime vacations he and 
Mrs. Warner spend at the Small 
Point Beach clubhouse near Bath 
in Maine. He says:
Its on old fashioned place, 
quiet and quaint. They have a 
big porch that looks out over the 
ocean; I find a rocking chair there 
and during the first week I just 
sit. The second week I rock a 
little.
Actually, books are piled by. the 
rocker, for Dr. Warner loves to 
lose himself in volumes on po
litics, economics and history. He 
seems conscience-stricken when 
he speaks of the few opportuni
ties he gets to read.
The Warner residence in Pitts
burgh is a big, rambling house at 
650 Morewood Avenue, given to 
the university as a presidents 
home by John Porter, late Car
negie trustee, who once lived 
there.
Many prominent Pittsburghers 
have been guests in the house, as 
well as scholars, artists and scien
tists from round the world, for a 
university president gives up 
much of his right to privacy when 
he takes office, and enterainment 
becomes a large part of the job.
chairs and I ended up in the 
presidents seat.
So many special honors hav^ 
come Dr. Warners way that such 
charming diffidence is under
standable. Despite his intense oc
cupation in recent years with mat
ters non-scientific, he was elected 
in 1956 to the National Academy 
of Sciences, one of only five liv
ing Western Pennsylvanians to be 
so honored.
In December of 1951, as guests 
of the Tata Ii'on and Steel Com
pany, Dr. Warner and his wife 
travelled to India where, at Jam
shedpur, he gave the Perin Mem
orial Lectures.
The lectures honor the memory 
of Dr. Charles Page Perin, New 
York mining engineer, who de
signed the Tata Works, the largest 
steel plant in India, and a mile
stone in the industrial progress of 
that land.
The plant was constructed in 
the early part of the century un
der the supervision of Julian 
Kennedy, noted Pittsburgh steel 
pioneer, who once worked for 
Andrew Carnegie, the founder of 
Carnegie Tech.
In the course of his visit to the 
east, Dr. Warner also addressed 
the India Science Congress at Cal
cutta.
Dr.. Warner won his Ph.D. at 
Indiana University and later did 
post-doctorate work at the Uni
versity of Michigan. An honorary 
degree of Doctor of Science was 
conferred on him by Northwestern 
University in Boston, and he has 
been awarded other honorary de
grees by Bucknell, Indiana, the 
University of Pittsburgh, the Uni
versity of Maryland and Worces
ter Polytechnic Institute.
During World War n, Dr. War
ner played a key role in the de
velopment of the atomic bomb by 
directing and co-ordianting re
search on the chemistry and met
allurgy of plutonium at Los Ala
mos and Oak Ridge, as well as in 
the laboratories of the University 
of Chicago, the University of 
California, Iowa State College and 
Massachusetts Institute of TechnoHlogy. He is currently a mem
ber of the General Advisory Com
mittee to the Atomic Energy Com
mission.
Wartime Work
While engaged in wartime 
work, Dr. Warner was rarely at 
home, and then under security 
regulations which farbade telling 
even his family of his travels and
Dr. Warner first set foot on the activities. Looking back to those 
Carnegie campus in 1926 and betimes, Mrs. Warner laughs and 
came president in 1950. He is only says:
the fourth to hold the position 
since the institution was founded 
in 1900, and he remarks blandly:
 Carnegie Tech seems to be do
ing all it can to increase the av
erti ge life span of the American 
college president.
As an internationally known
It never bothered me. I learn
ed long ago not to ask questions. 
I just knew he was working for 
the government and I let it go at 
that.
Mrs. Warner may have learned 
not to ask questions as early as 
her student days at Indiana UniDr. J. C. Warner
CIT President since 1950
Carnegie Tech is currently rais
ing funds was a gleam in Dr. 
Warners eye even before he suc
ceeded the late Dr. Robert E. Do
herty as president. He says of the 
expansion plan:
We often talked about it. We 
knew it was inevitable and shared 
identical views that more ade
quate facilities were needed so 
that Carnegie Tech could develop 
its great potential for service to 
this community and the nation. 
Carnegie alumni like to speak 
of the cultural osmosis made 
possible oh a campus which offers 
such varieties of education as are 
provided by a college of science 
and engineering, a college of fine 
arts/ a school of printing manage
ment, a graduate school of print
ing management, a graduate 
school of industrial administra
tion, and a womens college.
Dr. Warner believes that the 
schools and colleges complement 
each other and he says:
Understanding science, man
agement or the arts, and knowing 
something about the world 
through the humanities and the 
social sciences are not mutually 
exclusive educational goals.
I believe that modern curricula
in professional education must 
offer students broad and extensive 
opportunities for work in non
technical subjects. We must re
quire our students to spend much 
of their time in these areas; and 
what is even more difficult, we 
must arouse their interest and 
understanding in doing so.
I can assure you from the ex
perience at Tech that if smart 
young students in professional 
education are offered challenging, 
stimulating and substantial cours
es in the humanities and social 
sciences, they will accept them 
with undisguised eagerness and 
interest.
Development Progrram 
As a result, they will be better 
men and women, able to make 
mare valuable contributions in 
their fields.**
The development program at 
Carnegie reflects the views of Dr. 
Warner on variety in education, 
for of five new buildings project
ed, one is a librae, one a Science 
and Engineering Building, one a 
Dramatic Arts Center which will 
include a modern theater, one a 
printing management school and 
the fifth a Campus Activities 
Center.
The current public appeal, 
which has an objective of $24,- 
350,000, also seek* funds to ex
pand the faculty and to increase 
faculty salaries, as well as to fin
ance a program of land-scaping 
and general campus improve
ments.
In this tremendous endeavor, as 
in other past undertakings, Dr. 
Warner has the strong arm of 
basic Pittsburgh industry work;g 
with him. For Carnegie Tefch 
through the years has enjoyed a 
pleasant and co-ordinated associa
tion with the top corporations of 
the industrial capital of the world.
More engineering graduates of 
the university go to work for U.S. 
Steel Corporation than any other 
employer. Jones & Laughlins 
board chairman, Ben Moreell, is 
a warm personal friend and there 
is a gratitude in Dr. Warners 
voice when he speaks of thdfe 
wonderful Westinghouse scholar
ships.
Integration
Over Carnegies broad walks 
and green lawns daily stroll pro
cession of 3,283 young men and 
women from all parts of the 
world: pony-tailed ingenues from 
the drama school . . . printing stu
dents with ink-stained fingers . . . 
engineers carrying T-squares as 
in a scabbard . . . artists lug
ging paint kits . . . poets with 
dreams in their eyes . . . chemists 
and musicians . . .architects and 
mathematicians ... all moving on 
charted paths toward their des
tiny in the creation of the Amer
ica of the future.
From the serene windows of 
his office on the second floor of 
the administration building, Dr. 
Warner looks out over the passing 
parade. ^
It is a peaceful scene, the cam
pus, but he can remember try
ing times in his career and recall 
the hectic hours of the Manhat
tan Project and the mission that, 
with success, brought Hiroshima, 
the end of a war, and the end of 
a world as it once had been.
The man who builds for tomor
row, however, can spend little 
time lingering in the past, and 
tomorrow for Carnegie T e ix 
mean new effort, a new skyline, 
new achievement, new progress.
These are the things that oc
cupy the thoughts and energies of 
Dr. John Christian Warner to
day. Generations to come will 
share the blessings they will yield.
scientist who has spent most of versity, where, in a qualitative 
his career in the laboratory and ' analysis class, the instructor was 
classroom, Dr. Warner still seems her husband-to-be. 
mildly surprised to find himself j The older Warner son, William 
in the top executive position at ; Hamer Warner, 27, has followed 
th university he knows and loves in his fathers footsteps and is 
su well. ! now Assistant Professor of MatheCarnegie Debut matics at the University of MinnHis debut at Carnegie Tech was esota. His brother, Thomas Paya> a chemistry instructor, and he j ton Warner, 25, recently joined 
bt came successively assistant prothe industrial relations departj 
fessor of chemistry, associate proj ment of U.S. Steel after serving 
lessor of theoretical chemistry,! two years in the Army, 
associate professor of metallurgic! An active writer until recent ; 
al engineering and Professor of years, Dr. Warner is co-author of 
Chemistry and Head of the De. two widely used chemistry textj 
pe.rtment. books and the atuhor of more j
Before being named to his pre| than fifty scientific and technical 
sent office, he also served as Dean j papers in the fields of physical i 
of Graduate Studies in the Colchemistry and electro-chemistry, j 
lege of Engineering and Science, ] He writes in longhand and often 
and as Assistant Director of the \ has capitalized on travel time by 
College. Of his faculty career, he working on a paper during airsays casually: I plane flights and train trips.
It was like a game of musical j The building program for which
Coming April 13
Hughes announces 
campus interviews for Electrical Engineers 
and Physicists receiving B. S.,
M. S., or Ph. D. degrees.
Consult your placement office no w 
for an appointment.
r-iiiiiiiL.
HUGHES
HUCHES AIRCRAFT COMPANt
Culver City, Lot Angeles, El Segundo and Fullerton, California 
and Tucson, Arizona
.J

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 8, 1959CARNEGIE TARTANPage 9
*Panty Raid
[continued from page 3] 
police put on an excellent display 
of dispersing a potential riot. 
However, I think it would be 
best if they refrained from prac
ticing on the student body at 
Tech. I think the twelve arrested 
have learned a lesson  it pays 
to always be in shape and quick 
^arts are necessary in a situation 
such as this. Broken field running 
helps too. Yes sir, quite a show! 
Joy Burrier, Sophomore: It
should have better organization 
and more efficiency. They should 
have had more policemen here to 
join in the fun.
Charlie Cozewith: I think that 
the panty raid should become an 
annual occurrence and replace 
Spring Carnival because its much 
fgheaper and just as much fun 
except for the Oakland police. 
Annette Brinko, Sophomore: It 
was a flop!
Bob Gordon: I think panty 
raids give people the opportunity 
to develop leadership, character, 
and morals. They also are good 
for public relations with the com
munity and it calls attention to 
the activities of Tech students. 
Theyre fun, too.
Midway
Suspension For Raiders: NO
[continued from page 4] 
istration wishes to establish a ruling which would suspend 
or expell future participants in such actions, but to throw 
the book at the persons involved in this demonstration is 
immensly unfair.
Certainly the students would be impressed with ad
ministration concern over this incident if a number of stu
dents are expelled or suspended. Certainly too, such action 
would be grossly unfair to those who are unfortunate enough 
to be punished. While disciplinary action is necessary and 
proper, suspension with the resulting loss of perhaps a year 
of school and notation on the^permanent school records is a 
heavy penalty to pay for the harmless events which took 
place last Wednesday. Social probation for those proven im
plicated is a much more sensible, much fairer punishment. 
This is what was done with those caught in last years really 
damaging riot.
But if some students are suspended from school for 
participation in the raid, the Tartan feels that all other 
Techites who feel that this penalty is in excess should protest 
this unfair action by uniting with those who were wronged 
and not attending classes either.
In short, if any students are barred from classes for their 
part in the fracus not ONE other Tech student should be in 
class either. It is almost criminal to partially ruin the edu
cation of any Tech student for the events of last Wednesday. 
IT MUST NOT HAPPEN. R.G.W.
LITTLE MAN ON CAM PUS
RE TH' 0/6 TAKING L)6TOEE TH!$ picture in a 
THEATRE OR. A 'PRIVA IN ?"
[continued from page 1] 
qu^en campaigns. Rules for booth 
judging have been compiled, in
cluding a complete definition of a 
booth entry. Specified dimensions 
for the booths are twenty feet 
wide, fifteen feet deep, and ten 
feet high.
 The exact number and type of 
midway rides have not been de
cided because the size of the mid
way is as yet unknown. However, 
the Carnival midway chairman, 
Pete Sergent stated that there will 
definitely be a merry-go-round, 
ferris wheel, and dodgems.
As in past years, the prelimi
naries of the sweepstakes will be 
held Friday morning, with the 
finals on Saturday morning. Bug
gies will be judged for design 
Friday morning.
Other annual competitions to 
be held again this year includes 
the faculty egg-throwing contest 
and sorority relays Friday after
noons on Fine Arts lawn. Plankjousting will be held Saturday 
afternoon.
Present plans include an inno
vation in the competitions sched
ule, a cricket match between the 
^International Club and the drama 
department. The time and place 
of this event will be announced 
within the next two weeks.
Call Day, Friday afternoon, May 
1, will also feature something 
new. Chairman Betsy Moss has 
announced that original Scottish 
folk dances will be performed by 
national award-winning dancers 
from the Pittsburgh area.
Two nationally known bands 
.^vill play for the jazz concert Fri^Jay evening, May 1, and Carnival 
Ball Saturday evening, May 2. 
The names of these bands will be 
released officially in the April 22 
issue of the Tartan.
J. GUTENBERG,bookmaker,says: **If
you want hair thats neat, not greasy, 
youre just the type for Wildroot!
They said it couldWt 
be done...
They said, nobody 
could do it... 
but 
K
If
Just a little bit 
of Wildroot 
and i... WOW 
 1959 Liggett & Myers Tobacco Company
"I/M is kindest to your taste because LM combines the two 
essentials of modern smoking, says TVs Jack Lescoulie.
LOW TAR: I!Ms patented filtering process adds extra filter fibers electro
statically, crosswise to the stream of smoke... makes L*M truly low in tar.
MORE TASTE: IiMs rich mixture of slow burning tobaccos brings you more 
exciting taste than any other cigarette.
Live Modern... change to modern Liv

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 10CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, April 8, 1959
' mm
REATER 
USE OF THE 
HUMAN 
L POTENTIAL
Metals Symposium 
Set For April 27
World famous authorities on steelmaking will assemble 
in Pittsburgh April 27 through May 1 at an International 
Symposium on the Physical Chemistry of Process Metallurgy 
to be held at the Penn-Sheraton Hotel.
One of the important meetings#--------------------------------- ------------
to be brought here by the Bi
centennial Science Commission, 
the gathering will feature over 68 
papers on metals presented from 
all corners of the world: England, 
France, Japan, Australia, Canada, 
and Switzerland. A five man dele
gation from Russia will represent 
Soviet metallurgy.
Professor F. D. Richardson of 
the Imperial College, London, will 
open the symposium with a paper
of Engineering at the University 
of Pittsburgh will act as toast
master.
The principle lecture of the 
symposium will be presented by 
Dean Henry Eyring of the Grad
uate School at the University of 
Utah who will talk on the sub
ject, Modern Concepts of Metal
lurgical Systems and Processes.
This international gathhering of 
metals experts is sponsored by
entitled, The Physical Chemistry the Meallurgical Society of A.I. 
of Metal and Slag SolutionsReM.E. in co-operation with the foltrospect and Prospect. Professor lowing Society committees: PhyJohn Chipma nof Massachusetts sical Chemistry of Steelmaking; 
Institute of Technology and PresiExecutive Metallurgy! and Meltdent of the Metallurgical Society 
of the American Institute of Min
ing, Metallurgical, and Petroleum 
Engineers will present a special 
Iron Blast Furnace
ing and Casting.
The week-long conference will 
include field trips to metals lab
oratories at Allegheny Ludlum 
Steel Corporation, Jones and 
Laughlin Steel Corporation, Allecture on 
Slags.
Dr. J. B. Austin, Administrauminum Company of America, St. 
tive Vice-President of Research Joseph Lead Company, University 
and Technology of the United of Pittsburgh, and Carnegie InStates Steel Corporation, will be 
the main speaker at a banquet 
Monday evening  his topic, 
Public Relations for Science, A 
Problem in Communications. 
Dean G. R. Fitterer of the College
stitute of Technology.
General Chairman for the sym
posium is Professor G. L. McCabe 
of the Department of Metallurgic
al Engineering at Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology.
SAM ROSS
Complete Tuxedo Rented
124 OAKLAND AVE. 
PITTSBURGH 13, PA.
Student Rate
William J. Marino, Prop. MU 2-7310
The Air Force pilot or navigator is a man of many talents. He is, first of all, 
a master of the skiesand no finer exists. In addition, he has a firm back
ground in astro-navigation, electronics, engineering and allied fields. Then, 
too, he must show outstanding qualities of leadership, initiative and selfreliance. In short, he is a man eminently prepared for an important future 
in the new Age of Space. Find out today if you can qualify as an Air Force 
pilot or navigator. Paste the attached coupon on a postal card and mail it now.
GRADUATE THEN FLY
U.S. AIR FORCE AVIATION CADET PROGRAM
MAIL THIS COUPON TOOAY
Aviation Cadet Information, Dept. A-94 
Box 7608, Washington 4, D. C.
Please send me details on my opportunities as an Aviation Cadet in the U.S. Air 
Force. I am a U.S. citizen, between the ages of 19 and 26Yj and a resident of th 
U. S. or possessions. I am interested in ? Pilot ? Navigator training.
Name____________________________________College ....
Street , ...  .  . 
City_________________________________ 7.nn, State----------------------------- ,
On April 21
THERES AN IMPORTANT FUTURE AHEAD 
WHO WEAR THESE WINGS
FOR THE MEN
Contact your Placement Bureau.
GRUMMAN AIRCRAFT 
ENGINEERING CORPORATION
Bethpage, Long Island, New York
Air Superiority Fighters  Anti-submarine and Early-warning Aircraft  Jet Trainers  Nuclear Research 
Military and Commercial Transports  . Aerobilt Truck Bodies  Hydrofoil Research  Grumman ioati
Our national security requires that our scientific manpower will not be 
squandered . . . that each man's potential be expanded to the utmost, 
increasing his earnings and his stature.
This view is particularly important now, in this Day of the Missile, 
when our leadership is being challenged, and ever-increasing demands are 
being made on the imagination and skill of the engineer.
We believe our record of responsible management and creative en
gineering has produced an environment where the engineer may achieve 
steady growth and a stable future . . . with commensurate personal 
recognition and reward for his creativity and skill.
WILL INTERVIEW Engineering Degree Candidates majoring in aero
nautical, mechanical, electrical or civil engineering, math or physics
04555516

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 8 1959CARNEGIE TARTANPage 11
s Almost Too Late!
BUY
YOUR
More Pictures...
More Pages...
More Features..

---------------------------------------------------

r*c< It^CAtNCGIl TAKTAN-WednMdr. April 8, i9t4U--
SAE Is
Swim
Champ
Carnegie Tartan
IM Softball 
Begins 
Soom
George Paris  Sports Editor
IM Softball Season 
Begins This Week
Intramural softball season will be starting early this 
year due to the loss of four playing fields.
Moreover, this years schedule has been limited to 
twelve fraternity teams and twelve independent teams. 
The limited schedule will probably not impair the caliber
of ball played this year since many*----------------------------------------------------
all-school players from last ATO spent last year rebuilding 
year s list will be returning. ancj ^as a str0ng team returning 
Kappa Sigr Tom Huff and Bill Novak give
Sigs, will not be quite as strong  them two strong outfielders, while 
Last years champs, Kappa j pre(j Garibaldi adds strength at 
this year due to the loss of Lou SCCOnd base. Their weakness isMontini and all-school third 
baseman Jim Livengood. How
ever, the return of pitcher Larry 
Burtner, all-school first baseman 
Jerry Watson, and all-school short
stop Walt Majeski will give them 
another strong team this year.
The runners-up for the past two 
years, SAE, lost three players by 
graduation from last years team. 
However, last years batting cham
pion and all-school centerfielder, 
Whitey Mueller, all -school pitch
er Bob Reber, and shortstop Chuck 
Vodvarka return to bolster a 
pretty fair team.
Sigma Nu 
Sigma Nu, the year befores 
champion, will try to regain the 
title on hopes that Jim Swisher, 
all-school pitcher and MVP of two 
years ago, freshman Pete Bouxstein, and Frank Spriggs will turn 
admirable performances.
Tau Delta Phi has looked very 
good in practice. Their starting 
basketball team and Bimbo Roth 
form a strong nucleus. All posi
tions appear solid except their 
pitching.
Beta Sigr 
Beta Sigs, who made a fine 
showing last year, will be even 
stronger this year. The added 
strength is in a lefthanded fast
ball pitcher. However, they lost 
Waxman and Bartosh through 
graduation which should weaken 
them somewhat.
FOR COMPLETE 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
 Try Us First 
OAKLAND HARDWARE
HARDWARE. PAINT,
3606 Forbes St. MA 1-0923
formed at short and third.
Although the Englishmen, Fal
cons, TKN, Citcom, and Newman 
Club will probably have strong 
teams, lack of practice will hurt 
their teamwork.
Other all-school players return
ing are Mike Daugherty, leftfielder for the Phi Kaps, Phil Wicklander, catcher for the Phi Kaps, 
and Dick Sphon, second baseman 
for the Delts. League play will 
begin this week. There will be 
four leagues altogether.
Harriers Seek 
Win In Opener
The Tech thinclads open their 
1959 season this Saturday after
noon as they entertain the Jean
nette Hamers at the Schenley 
Oval track. v
Coach Uhl Swaney, in his first 
year at the helm, is optimistic 
over his teams chances of ob
taining a winning record this sea
son, although he takes over a team 
which has been badly hurt by loss 
of top stars through graduation.
Distance Men 
Swaney can point with pride to 
his distance men as Wittman, Ottervik, and Hamilton give Tech 
the best distance trio in the West 
Penn Conference. Also, with 
Suggs and King controlling the 
middle distances, Tech should be 
strong here.
If Ty Porter and A1 Tompkins 
can rid themselves of the injuries
SAE Victorious 
In Intramural 
Swimming Meet
The annual intramural swim
ming meet was held the Tuesday 
before Easter.
The results were surprising in 
that SAE nosed out the water polo 
champs, BSR, by a score of 33- 
31%. Moreover, the two favorites 
in the meet, SN and ATO, tied 
for third place with 18 points 
apiece; while Obelisk was close 
behind with 17%.
Team Victors
SAEs victory was really a team 
victory inasmuch as over one half 
of their total points came from 
winning the two relays. Curt 
Eaves, back stroker, John Fry, 
breast stroker, and John Hunter, 
free styler, won the medley race 
in 1:44.0; Obelisk finished second. 
Eaves, Hunter, Bob Reber, and 
Jim Miller finished in front of the 
BSRs 200 yard freestyle team to 
win in 1:55.3.
The five individual events were 
won by members of one of the 
other four top teams. In the 50 
yard freestyle. Charley Hastings, 
SN, finished two yards ahead of 
four fellows who tied for second 
place. The winning time was 
0.26.7. In the 50 yard breast 
stroke, Jake Alpert, BSR, won 
easily in 0:36.7.
Hastings proved he had good 
speed by winning the 100 yard 
freestyle in 1:02.2. However, he 
did not capture the third free
style event, 150 yards, because 
Ray Novak, Obelisk, finished first 
in 1:50.3. Pete Pence of ATO won 
the only other individual event, 
the 50 yard back stroke, in 0:34.5.
which plagued them last season 
they could be the big one-two 
punch in the 100 and 220 which 
Swaney is looking for.
Field Events 
The Skibos main weakness is 
in field events where tri-state 
javelin Joe Frick, high-jumper 
Paul Hauser, and broad-jumper 
John Mihm have been lost by 
graduation. John Lemmer, Pete 
Pence, and Tompkins should help 
Tech in the field.
We are looking for the Tartans 
to sweep Jeannette and go on to 
a winning record this season.
CLBO PATRA, snake charmer,says: "All 
the queens admir handsome hair... 
so asp for Wildroot!*
ft
Just  littta bit 
of Wildrdof
and...WOW I
Woodlawn Pharmacy
The choice of all intelligent people 
for all drugstore needs:
PRESCRIPTIONS
COSMETICS
SNACKS
CANDY
TOBACCO
Woodlawn Pharmacy
IM Rifle, Badmitton 
And Table Tennis End
Dave Harvey, SAE, was the only bowler from Tech to 
qualify for the National Intercollegiate Bowling Tourna
ment. He will represent Tech in the Intercollegiate Finals
next week in St. Louis. ?-----------------------------------------
last years defending champs, the 
Whiz Kids, will meet the Grad 
Jacks in the bridge finals. The 
Whiz Kids, in turn, play SAE in 
the consolation match.
All trophies have been present
ed to this years winners in leagues 
and tournaments in all sports 
which have terminated.
Basketball 
This years top ten scorers^ 
basketball were:
Player - Team G TP
At the end of the tournament 
a committee will figure out the 
average of all-school teams for
each school with a representative 
in the tournament. If Techs ave
rage should be one of the four
best in the nation, we will be
awarded a trophy.
Rifle Team
The two top teams in the rifle 
tournament this year both broke 
the old shooting record. The Eng
lishmen nosed out SAE by 14
points, 2038-2024. The highest pos
sible total was 2400. Far behind 
in third place was KS with 1764, 
followed by ATO. High individual 
honors went to Kanegasberg of 
the Englishmen; with J. P. Robin
son, SAE, second. Both are fresh
men.
Bruce Wallerstein and Morty 
Skirboll were this years double 
table tennis champs. They gained 
this distinction by wining two out 
of three matches on Intramural 
Night by defeating Kagen and 
Tomich. The individual champ 
was Fred Schauer, who defeated 
last years runner-up, Ira Kuhn, 
in the finals.
Handball
The Faculty Bulldogs and the 
Tau Delts are showing their skills 
in winning handball matches; the 
Hanging Pawns, in chess games.
Track rosters will be due on 
April 17, but play wont begin un
til a few days later. Qualifying 
rounds will be held on April 21; 
the finals, April 23. The eleven 
events in the meet are the 100 
yard run, the 220, 440, 880, the 
mile, 2 lap relay, 4 lap relay, 120 
low hurdles, the shot put, the high 
jump, and the running broad 
jump.
Horseshoe pitching begins this 
week. Enough people have signed 
up for it to make it an interme
diate sport.
The Four Jokers, who defeated
PPG
Flynn,
Phi Kaps 
Rapp,
Met Grads 6 
Epner, TX 6 
Horey, Falcons 9 
Leone, A-level 6 
Petran, GSIA 7 
Wallerstein,
BSR 5
Doxtader, 
Englishmen 
Slama, TX 
Trageser,
Falcons 
Bouxstein, SN
8 193 24.13
101
97
143
92
104
72
100
80
66
66
16.83
16.17
15.89
15.33 
14.86
14.40
914.29
13.33
13.20
13.20
On Friday the final badminton 
games were played. Nancy Joseph 
and Spinner Kelly were the only 
undefeated pair left in the double 
elimination round robin . Thi* 
meant that the winner of the Mrs, 
Birdy and Miss Trammel vs. 44> 
Oehler and Jan Notopoulus had 
to defeat Kelly and Joseph twice 
to become champs.
Champs
It seems that that is what John 
and Jan had in mind as they not 
only defeated Birdy and Trammel, 
but also took two straight set* 
from Kelly and Joseph. This si* 
sets the victors won in two con
secutive days of play gave them 
the school championship.
Up-to-date point standings are 
as follows: ATO-32%; SAE-30J 
Englishmen-18; Obelisk-16, BSR14, and KS-11.
wA
GENERAL
mBPRECISION
COMPANY
engineering students:
Important career opportunities await you at Link Aviation. ^ 
Links increasing prominence and diversification in electronics enable it to offer promising career opportunities to 
engineering students. Link, a leading producer of elec
tronic flight simulators, has expanded into many fields, 
including automatic control, optical and visual display 
systems, digital computers, instrumentation, and is now the 
worlds largest producer of analog computing equipment.
Engineering graduates joining the Link organization 
are assured that their special interests and skills will be 
utilized to the best advantage. Link offers supplemental 
training designed for engineers, by engineers. The com
pany also provides a financial assistance program to 
encourage its engineers to undertake graduate studies.
The working atmosphere at Link is thoroughly profes
sional, because management men are engineers and under
stand the engineers viewpoint and ambitions. Salaries 
are excellent, fringe benefits ample. Link locations in 
Binghamton, in the heart of New York States vacationland, and in Palo Alto, California, in the beautiful San 
Francisco Bay area, make it an ideal place to live, work 
and play.
A Link representative will be on the Carnegie Teen 
campus April 22 Make your appointment with 
your placement office now.
LINK AVIATION INCORPORATED, BINGHAMTON, N. Y.
A ttfbikUory of Gonorgl frcl*ion CgwipMont Coiporetifft
