NOW TWO'JUST A BREEZE!'
Tartans Smash Bethany 41-6 
With Exploding Offensive
NOWNOT-'WOJUSA BRW BEJUSA
Nick Simcic reaches for a loose ball in Bethany game while 
Floyd Wiseman and Gerry Meyers await developments.
VOL. 43No. 4PITTSBURGH, PA.
Laura Ehni And Katie Rudy 
Named Co-Editors of Thistle
Nine Members Included On Editorial Board; 
Pete West, Frank Stitt Hold Major Positions
Laura Ehni and Katie Rudy last week were named co-editors 
f the 1950 Thistle to replace editor Don Culler, who transferred to 
Ohio State university.
Both new editors have been on the Thistle staff for two years, 
recently holding the position of<&- 
associate editors. Laura Ehni has 
had previous publication experi
ence as chief reporter on the 
Tartan and feature writer on the 
Scottie.
Katie Rudys publication ex
perience has centered around the 
Tartan and the Technical holding 
the position of headline editor and 
secretary, respectively. Both wom
en are members of Kappa Kappa 
Gamma sorority and Student 
Council.
The other staff positions an
nounced are as follows: Pete West, 
managing editor; Frank Stitt, bus
iness manager; Paul Stetler, ad
vertising editor; Fred Grantham, 
photography editor; Kevin Fred
ricks, sports editor; Jane Connor, 
fraternity editor; Shirley Dixon, 
seniors editor; Bill Cody, layout 
editor; and Fred Hill, art editor.
The record for circulation of 
the Thistle was broken during reg
istration when over 1100 copies 
were sold. The book will be on 
sale again at February registration 
for those who want the Thistle 
and did not buy one in September.
Freshman Rules
Cwens and Scimitars have 
announced the penalty for 
freshman neglect to wear dinks 
at all times on campus.
Five percent will be deduct
ed from the traditions exam 
grade each time a freshmans 
name is turned into the Board.
If a freshman does not ac
quire seventy five percent on 
the exam, he will be disqualified 
from extra curricular activities 
throughout the year.
Upperclassmen have been 
authorized to submit the name 
of any freshman violating this 
regulation. All such names are 
to be submitted to either Cwens 
or Scimitars.
Katie Rudy, seated, 
and Laura Ehni
P & D Department 
To Sponsor Films 
For CIT Students
Charlie Chaplin, the Three Mus
keteers, and famous Disney char
acters are soon to entertain Car
negie students who become mem
bers of the Film Arts Club spon
sored by seniors in the P & D
On Thursday, semester tickets 
will go on sale for $1.50 in the 
P&D office, and Morewood Gar
dens, or they may be obtained 
from any P&D senior. They will 
serve as admission to weekly pro
ductions for the^ first semester. No 
tickets will be sold at the doors.
Hoping to bring motion pictures 
up to a level of eager student re
ception, they have chosen films 
that range from comedies to dra
matic episodes such as Edgar Al
len Poes The House of Usher. 
Most of the presentations will 
start at '4:30 every Wednesday 
afternoon in IH 104, but some of 
the outstanding pictures will begin 
at 7:30.
These pictures are not only for 
Fine Arts .students, since they are 
designed to appeal to everyones 
interests. The P&Ds are only op
erating as a non-profit group to 
obtain the films. Each weeks pro
gram will be announced on the 
bulletin boards.
By Fred Lunt
Out to prove that last years final game victory was more than an accident, Carnegie 
Techs oft-ridiculed football team opened the 1949 season with a merciless 41-6 win over a 
favored Bethany College eleven. The game, a benefit affair sponsored by the Wellsburg, W. Va. 
Kiwanis Club, saw the underdog Tartans gain command at the opening whistle and hold 
the advantage through the full sixty minutes.
Making Dr. Eddie Bakers return as coach at Carnegie a memorable occasion, the lo
cal gridders displayed explosive offensive power from the winged T formation and combined it 
with a rugged, fast-charging defensive forward wall.
Halfback Nick Simcic again proved to be the Tartans principle offensive threat, scor
ing two touchdowns, one a 62-yard gallop,' and passing for a third score. Larry Stovicek and
__________________________________^Floyd Wiseman were standouts, particularly on defense, as they
repeatedly broke through to throw the Bethany backs for losses.
Co-captain Gerry Meyers was an offensive tower of strength, 
opening gaping holes in the Bethany line all afternoon. Filling the 
starting assignment at left end for the first time, Lou Fougere dis
played brilliant pass-catching ability.
Even more encouraging than the work of the starting lineup 
was the performance of several of the second and third team men. 
Bob Dougherty twice broke through from his end position to toss 
opposing ball carriers for sizeable losses.
Elmer Metzger, a shifty freshman halfback from Mt. Lebanon, 
gave evidence of developing into one of the best runners on the 
team scoring two touchdowns, one of them a 72-yard jaunt. The 
play of tackle Joe Galanda, guard Jim Vodenichar, and end Bill 
Rowe, all freshmen, went far toward disproving the theory that 
the local eleven is weak in reserves.
The game was not even a minute old before the Tartans had 
their first touchdown. After running the opening kickoff back to 
the Carnegie 38-yard line, Nick Simcic found a gaping hole at 
right tackle on the initial play from scrimmage, stumbled as he 
sliced through but regained his footing, cut for the right sideline 
and, behind perfect blocking, streaked 62 yards for the score.
[Continued on page 4]
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1949
Employment
Men who are interested in 
Christmas employment in the 
post office should make appli
cations in the Dean of Mens of
fice immediately. There is a 
minimum age limit of 18 years.
Varsity C Club 
To Hold Dance
Varsity C-Club will hold its an
nual dance this Saturday in the 
mens gym following the Tartans 
first home stand against St. Fran
cis. Brad Hunt and his thirteen 
piece band has been chosen to play 
at the first all-school dance of the 
year, which will be informal with 
no flowers.
Dancing will be held from nine 
to one, and Thistle Hall will be 
reserved for refreshments. Tickets 
will be $1.80 a couple and will be 
on sale in Skibo daily from 11:30 
to 1:30.
Dick Barr and Wes Kenney are 
in charge of the decorations.
Scot Needs You!
The Scot, Carnegie Techs 
new variety magazine, needs 
more people to help bring out 
the first issue. It needs writers, 
artists, business and advertising 
men, and typists. If you have 
had any previous experience in 
high school or are interested in 
any way, the Scot wants you.
A meeting will be held at the 
Black Cat under Thistle hall to
morrow at 4:30 p. m. This is 
your chance to help pioneer a 
new campus magazine. Attend 
the meeting if you are at all in
terested.
Scot To Make
APPearanceAt
Martin Agronsky, News Analyst, 
To Speak At Oct. 11 Assembly
Martin Agronsky, well-known news analyst, will speak at the 
student assembly Tuesday, October 11, in the Carnegie Theater.
Agronsky, a foreign correspondent from 1937 until he became 
Washington correspondent for the American Broadcasting Company 
in 1943, graduated from Rutgers* 
university.
World Coverage 
He started his career as a cor
respondent for the Palestine Post, 
an English daily published in Je
rusalem.
A year with the International 
News Service in Paris was fol
lowed by on-the-spot coverage 
for British and American news
papers during the last days of the 
Spanish Civil War.
In 1939, Agronsky began mak
ing regular broadcasts from the 
European trouble centers, such as 
Geneva, Bucharest, Belgrade,
Athens, Sophia, and Ankara. He 
was with the British Army in 
Libya, and was at Singapore 
when the Japs attacked.
He covered the retreat from 
Singapore to Java and was one 
of the first reporters with MacArthur in Australia during the 
early days of the war.
Packs Theater 
Agronsky was present at the 
last pre-war meeting of the 
League of Nations at Geneva, and 
covered the beginnings of the 
United Nations at the Dumbarton 
Oaks conference in Washington.
He was on hand at Hunter college,
New York City, when the U.N.
Martin Agronsky
Security Council began its delib
erations in 1946.
Mr. Agronskys appearance two 
years ago packed the Little Thea
ter to the overflowing point, an 
attestment to his popularity 
among college students and fac
ulty members.
Homecoming
New Pocket Magazine 
To Have Wide Interest 
itli Pictures Galore
One of the highlights of home
coming week will be the debut 
of the Scot, student variety mag
azine. Appearing in  a sixty-four 
page pocketbook crammed full of 
pictures and articles, it should be 
of general interest to all students.
With its budget and constitution 
already approved by Student 
Council, Burt Wells, the Scots 
new editor, said that its purpose 
is, To present a magazine that 
will be created by and will affect 
general interest common to the 
specific departments and the four 
schools. This is to be accomplish
ed by capitalizing on innate cur
iosity which can thus be extended 
on the Carnegie Tech campus 
through articles and features that 
are intended to appeal to all stu
dents.
No Scottie Humor
For the students who miss the 
Scottie, there will be no place 
in the new magazine. The Scot is 
not confined to humor, and such 
humor that will appear will not be 
similar to that of the Scottie.
Thirty percent of the magazine 
will be devoted to current news, 
twenty percent to fiction, and fif
teen percent to humor. Another 
fifteen percent will be given over 
to sports, with campus activities 
and non-fiction each occupying 
five percent of the pages. Adver
tising will take up the rest of 
the magazine.
Picture Section
An interesting feature of the 
magazine will be an eight-page 
picture section. The section will 
consist of a photo story, a fashion 
page, and shots of campus activi
ties.
Besides the editor, ^he managing 
staff consists of the business man
ager, Jim Rickard; features edi
tor, A1 Kiefer; advertising mana
ger, Chuck Vaughan; and art di
rector, Luke MacBeth.
The first issue of the magazine 
will be 5Vi by 7V4 and will be 
set by a vari-type machine. The 
method of printing wiil be offsetlithography.

---------------------------------------------------

2TA4WANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1949
Editorials
Lon Li Live The Scot
While waiting to be born, the Scot has almost 
grown to maturity. In order to publish a variety 
magazine this fall, it was necessary to plan the 
first issue during the summer with hopes that 
official recognition would be given by Student 
Council. This recognition was given last week 
and now the job of organizing a staff and pro
ducing the magazine remains. *
We urge those interested in contributing 
their efforts to this new publication to do so 
immediately because the need for a campus 
variety magazine has definitely been proved 
during the six school months that have elapsed 
since the Scottie died.
Practically all of the material that normally 
would be found in such a publication has been 
lost to the campus because of lack of space, or 
the unsuitable nature of the material in other 
publications.'
We hope the Scot meets with great approval 
and we wish it every success. We also wish to 
offer advice. The past two years have seen the 
collapse of politics as a controlling factor in 
publicrtions and we advise the staff of the Scot 
to gua d against any such thing happening to it. 
The labor and thought that goes into such a 
publication does not deserve the degenerate fu
ture that almost always follows political con
trol of student publications.
Our other suggestion concerns the material 
chosen for publication in the Scot. Probably a 
large s action of the magazine will be devoted to 
humor. Many college magazines have forgotten 
that an incident or story can be humorous with
out being vulgar or obscene, and that the maga
zines 1hat have been the most popular in the long 
run are the ones written on a plane above that 
of a moron. We hope that the Scot remembers.
Here To Stay?
Last Friday night at its organizational rally 
the Class of 53 was indoctrinated into Carnegie 
Tech. Aside from their text books and slide rules 
they had their first experience with college life 
as it can be, and possibly, as it needs to be. That 
missing something that has been absent except on 
rare occasions was here and stayed for one week
end at least.
It reached out beyond the Class of 53. 
How I wish I were a freshman again was 
confessed by more upperclassmen than care to 
admit the thought. For once everyone stood on 
common ground. We were all simply students 
of Carnegie Tech. Car caravans and buses that 
found their way to Wellsburg Saturday were 
evidence of the fact.
The game itself was a chapter of the week
end. When the tally sheets were in, we had 
run up a Notre Dame score. The taste of victory 
was unfamiliar but good. It came back to the 
campus along with the goal posts and our fight 
songs were sung a little louder and stronger 
Saturday night. Perhaps it was because everyone 
sung them. Perhaps it was the only way most 
people had of saying something that needed 
saying.
To the Class of 53 it must have been fun; to 
the team, coaches and upperclassmen it was new 
and gratifying. What or who was responsible for 
it is a challenging question. Simply, it was here. 
It came with youlets hope it stays at least 
as long as you do. /
TA4MPAIV
OFFICES' Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes St.. Pittsburgh. Pa. TELEPHONE: SC. 1-4557. after hours: news. MU. 1-7017, MU. 1-6312: business, EM. 1-6597, SC. 1-8851.
Published weekly during the school year, except holidays and examination periods, by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
EdHor-in-Chief .............................................. Albert F. Kimmel
Business Manager .............................................. Herbert Stone
Managing Editor ........................................ Paul V. Offermann
Personnel Manager .................................... Robert J. Kubiak
News EditorTom Birch. Sports EditorBill Dorn. Copy EditorLloyd Dyer. Makenp EditorRalph Painter. Advertising ManagerMorty Baker. Circulation ManagerClarence Smith. Art EditorNorman Rosfeld.Headline EditorCatherine Rudy. Proof EditorJohn Braun. Assistant Business ManagerArthur G. Zuch. Personnel Assistant-Ray Mangold. Senior ReportersJoseph Weinreich. Catherine Rudy. Chief ReportersLaura Ehni, Frances Hamborsky. Catherine Rudy, Nancy Sitler. A1 Bader. Chief PhotographerRichard Deininger. Copy StaffJohn Gerum, Analee Gelman, Mary Cauffield, Robert Cloud. Ed Muttart. Features StaffA. Starke Drischell, Gene Feist. PhotographersLeland Green, Howard Miskill, Senior ReporterJoseph Weinreich.ReportersJo Chrisanti, Alan Brotcky, Joan Blumenthal, Nancy Sitler. Cub ReportersHilda Chottiner, Jane Conner, Edward Koos. Patricia Kelley, Su MacFadden, Dolores Mitchell. Shirlee Ploeger, Jane Robb, Joan Williams, Nancy Will. Su'an Flood. Sports StaffRichard Barr, Robert Dougherty. Charles King, Warren Lithgow, Fred Lunt, Art Men-tng. John Roslund, Bruce Updike.Business StaffMarjorie Weinsweig. Bob Powers, Herman 
P. Alexander.TypistsPatti McDermott, Wilma Dickson, Shirley Dixon.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING. Inc.. College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison Ave.. New Yoric City Subscription *1.10 per year.Entered as second class matter on Oct. 4, 1907, at the Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa., under the Act of March 3, 187 Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in the Act of February 28, 1825. Authorized Oc
tober 21, 1918. S*.
NZAWA JE-N ZO!A UAAT O aASOD -RJAMZAWA
The Kitchen Sink
By Joseph Weinreich
Changes are due at the Carnegie Union. A 
parking lot will be built on the Beeler side, and 
a set of steps will lead from the entrance to 
Forbes.
Some say that the Drama department lies be
hind certain Scotch and Soda revisions.
APO, the Scout Service Fraternity, is steadily 
gaining prestige by its handling of such ticklish 
jobs as Student Council elections and the C-Book. 
It is, however, an illegal organization since it is 
operating without a Student Council-constitution. 
. The technicality will be corrected this semester.
Freshmen are pretty well settled by now. Be
fore they get too settled I hope someone will 
teach them how to pray for rain. What ever hap
pened to last years frosh?
Easy Life?
Duet overheard during last year's spring car
nival, Ya know, when I finish law school I think 
Ill take a year or two of engineering.
Yeah, why?
I dunno. I think Id like this kind of life. 
Need A Campus Map?
A number of long lost campus maps have 
turned up in the Public Relations Office. Theyre 
free if anyone wants one. It seems that some 
years ago APO (what, again?) published the 
chart; its in color and has a number of cute illus
trations. Sample: Pitts shadow.
The Alumni Office has a request for a copy of 
the 1934 Thistle. If any student or faculty mem
ber has a copy to contribute, it will be very much 
appreciated.
Labors Ordeals
Tommy Moses of the Dean of Mens office has 
been running a baby sitting service as a sideline 
to her regular duties. When her supply of sit
ters from Morewood Gardens gave out last Fri
day night, she was forced to run to the aid of a 
desperate couple by assuming the job of sitter 
herself. At last Capital gets a taste of Labors 
ordeals.
Rubing Shoulders
Martin Lewin, junior drama student, cele
brated identical birthdays with Joan Blondell. 
The party followed their performances in the 
opening of Happy Birthday, at the Fairhaven 
Summer Theatre, Fairhaven, Mass., last summer.
Ten Years Ago This Month
A senior course entitled, Social Engineering 
Projects, was added to engineering curriculum.
Headlines from the sports page . . .Skibos 
display brilliant sixty minute running attack . . . 
Swamp Davis-Elkins 49-0. Prediction on next 
weeks game with Wittenberg . . . Tech should 
run up 60 points.
Activities card photographs were a scream 
then too.
A letter to the editor carried on about dis
courteous engineers who like to race to the door 
(Maggie Murph), then stride right in, without 
bothering to let the lady precede.
Heilman Work 
To Ijiitiate Season 
For Drama Dept.
Another Part of the Forest by 
Lillian Heilman will initiate the 
Carnegie Drama departments 
productions for the coming year. 
The Forest is a backward se
quence showing the Hubbards of 
the Little Foxes as they were 
twenty years before.
The production will open at the 
Carnegie Theatre on October 19, 
and will run through October 26 
with a matinee scheduled for Oc
tober 21.
Sidney Spayde, guest director 
from the Dock St. Theater in 
Charleston, South Carolina, is di
recting Heilmans play. He spent 
seven summers at Cain Park The
ater in Cleveland where he be
came acquainted with many Car
negie drama students. Mr. 
Spayde is assisted by Louis Fred
erick of Carnegie.
Dave Clark designed the set for 
the 1880 Alabama plantation 
home, and Mark Lewis designed 
the lighting plot for the southern 
living room. Curtain will go up 
on time under the able direction 
of Bernard Bogin, stage manager. 
Under such able technicians, the 
audience may look forward to an 
excellent production.
The costumes portray the Ro
mantic era of the 1880s. Four of 
the costumes are being specially 
made by the costume department 
but the majority will be chosen 
from the excellent costume stock.
Student tickets will be distrib
uted Friday, October 14, in the 
Drama office on the first floor of 
the Fine Arts building at 4:00 
p. m.
SANNAW NR NZA AaKNRW
Reader Claims 
Joker Placed 
In Dorm Plan
Editor, The Tartan
Your editorial Too Far in 
the Tartan of September 27 impels 
me to reply.
We are all agreed, I think, that 
the avowed purpose of the reor
ganization of the mens dormi
tory setup is excellent. Few can 
argue with the fact that, under the 
new plan, intradormitory interest 
would be increased and the dormi
tory council itself would operate 
much more efficiently.
There was, however, one big 
joker written into the plan, and 
that joker was the chief reason for 
our rather heated opposition last 
June. The joker? Our mens dorm
itory honorary, Claymore Clan.
Claymore Clan is a service or
ganization and was chartered as 
such by Student Council, and in 
recent years Mens Dormitory 
Council has delegated to it the 
responsibility of running dormi
tory social functions. It chooses 
its own membership and is respon
sible only to itself for its choices.
The proposed reorganization 
gave Claymore Clan unprecedent
ed power in our activities, and 
that is what we rebelled against. 
For one thing, upon the recom
mendation of Claymore, any of 
our Council representatives and/or 
dormitory officers could be re
moved from office for various 
reasons set forth in the plan. An
other provision was that Clay
more was given a direct voice in 
determining how our activities fee 
money was to be spent. The Clan 
was to have a member on the 
dormitory council, and any intra
dormitory activity, such as a party, 
was to be planned under the su
pervision or advice of Claymore Clan.
Briefly, the hew plan would be
acceptable to us dissenters if 
either one of two conditions were 
met: either Claymore Clan (or 
any other organization) must be 
left out of the dormitory govern
ment altogether, or else all the 
members of Claymore Clan must 
be chosen by direct vote of the 
dormitory residents.
In the future I would suggest 
that you check both sides of any 
controversial issue before going 
off half cocked on the subject.
Very truly yours,
Ernest E. Johnson, Jr. 
EE 50
ROUGH DRY 
LAUNDRY 
Washed and Dried
SAME DAY 
SERVICE
SHIRTS
washed and finished
'OJIE'SAOTAW4609 Forbes St.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1949TAWA1V3
DRE KNOWNOW
nu Tartnssn
HANGOVER
When you smoke PHILIP MORRIS!
"The Kilties are coming, again.
Carnegie Techs famed Kiltie Band made its first public appear
ance of the year at the Bethany-Carnegie Tech football game last 
Saturday afternoon. The marching band now boasts a complement
------------------------------------------------------*5 of ninety men, excluding thirteen
reserve bandsmen. This is the 
largest band that has ever paraded 
in the Carnegie plaid.
Carnegies first Kiltie Band 
originated in 1922; the number of 
members then being only 46. The 
band gradually expanded until 
the manpower shortage of the war 
years forced the organization to 
discontinue its activities. Shortly 
after the end of the war, the Kil
ties reorganized and finally in 
1947 matched their pre-war mem
bership of 74.
Schaefer Directs 
It was then that Prof. William 
A. Schaefer assumed the director
ship of the band. The Kilties not 
only continued their marching ac
tivities but also their efforts to 
the development of a symphonic 
band.
The following spring the band 
appeared in several campus con
certs. Through the sale of Kiltie 
calendars, sufficient funds wrere 
raised so that more uniforms could 
be purchased.
Many Appearances 
Last year the band made 31 
appearances, including two con
certs at the Carnegie Music hall, 
several concerts in various high 
schools in the Pittsburgh district 
and even a performance in Pitts 
Stephen Foster memorial.
This football season the band 
will travel to Cleveland, where 
the Plaid gridders meet Case Tech, 
and to Washington, Pa. for the 
Carnegie-Washington and Jeffer
son contest. After finishing their 
marching activities for the fall, 
the Kilties will prepare for two 
concerts to be held in the Car
negie Music hall.
Intercollegiate Band 
Next February, Carnegie Tech 
will be host to the Intercollegiate 
Band of Pennsylvania. Only the 
top-notch instrumentalists of 
Pennsylvanias college bands are 
invited to this meet. Last year 
twelve Kilties traveled to IndiGKSNKA-( JO-'RN
Marion, the Kiltie Bands mas
cot, is held in a tuba bq her dad, 
Bill Waller, Kiltie manager.
Thirty-six Men 
Elected To 
Dorm Council
Thirty-six men were elected to 
Dorm Council last week under the 
old system of dormitory govern
ment organization. Each wing or 
dorm elected its own governing 
officers who also represent it in 
the Council.
In the following list of bfficers, 
the president of each wing is 
named first, then the vice-presi
dent, the secretary, and last, the 
freshman representative from 
those dorms having more than 
three freshmen or the representa
tive-at-large from those dorms 
having less than three.
Officers Listed
In A-wing of ttae FHA barracks, 
the officers are Roger Lee, Bob 
Knepper, Bob Atkinson, and Rob
ert Chubby as freshmen repre
sentative. In B-wing the men are 
representatives Dager, Griffith, 
Groff. No one has been elected 
freshmen representative because 
of a tie.
The officers of D-wing are A1 
Bader, Bob Lechner, Gilmore 
Harris, and A1 Clendenen as fresh
man representative. Ray Carey, 
Trigve Holst, Dick Johnson, and 
Dick Franklin as freshman repre
sentative were elected in E-wing.
Bob Pung, Donald Baeder, Tom 
Heck and Rudy Massa were 
chosen to represent Henderson 
hall. Loren Karabin, Jack Mc
Donald, Dick Lutz, and Dick 
Chelius represent Welch hall.
Richards Elected
Boss hall is represented in 
Dorm Council by J. R. Horsch. W. 
Mac Clarke, John Miller, and Rob
ert Mallory. McGill hall is rep
resented by Joe Zaffuto, John 
Monstream, Ray Jenkins, and Bob 
Griffin.
Fred Richards, Sellers McNally, 
Joe Chalupa, and A1 Dobbs as 
freshman representative were 
elected in Scobell hqll.
For the first semester, the fresh
man x-epresentatives will be al
lowed to debate but not to vote.
Squirrel Hill 
Hobby Shop
COMPLETE LINE OF ALL 
MODEL SUPPLIES
Open evenings till 9:00. 
Nmil 68 on sf -dnlld 'mn 
do Irettehc -dp
Musicians
Flutists, clarinetists, and a 
twirling drum major are needed 
now by the Kiltie. Band. If in
terested see the bands director, 
Mr. Schafer, in the music of
fice of the Fine Arts Building.
ana, Pa. for the three day session 
which was under the direction of 
Morton Gould.
The conductor for this next In
tercollegiate Band has not yet 
been announced but music lovers 
can be certain that the group will 
offer an ambitious program for 
their concert.
'The Traitor 
Opens Sixteenth 
Playhouse Season
The Traitor by Herman Wouk 
officially opened the sixteenth 
season of the Pittsburgh Play
house last Saturday evening.
Joseph Ruskin plays the title 
role of a young atomic scientist 
in the espionage melodrama. The 
play will run until October 29, and 
tickets are available at the box 
office, Gimbels, and Hornes.
In a *few weeks the second pro
duction of the season will begin 
rehearsal. It is an original ro
mantic drama by Dorothy Stew
art entitled This Is My Valley 
and will be premiered on No
vember 5.
WAA Offers V arietv 
Of Sports For Women
Calling all girls! If you lik 
sports of any type, WAA offer 
a large variety of activities fc 
women. At present theyre hav 
ing field hockey practices on Tucc 
days and Thursdays at 4:30, arch 
ery on Wednesdays at 4:30. an
I Tarquans (swimming club) o
I Tuesdays at 7:00 p. m. Later vol 
ley ball, basket ball, and model 
! dance will be offered.
For a Fine Place To Eat 
You Just Can't Beat
THE COLLEGE SPOON
LOCATED AT 
CRAIG AND FORBES
'RJUR
4 pc., experienced 
Amplifier if necessary 
Call Leo Alman 
HA 1-2083
CLIP THIS COUPON
a Its Worth 1.00 to You on Watch Repair or a Jewelry Purchase of $3.00 or more.
! T IM E S H O P
J 3623 Fifth Ave. SC. 1-7077
(Fifth Ave. at Atwood St.)
Kilties Are Coming 
Ninety Men Strong!
YOULL BE GLAD TOMORROWYOU SMOKED PHILIP MORRIS TODAY!
PHILIP MORRIS
Everybody talks about PLEASURE, but 
only ONE cigarette has really done something about it. 
That cigarette is SmahaB ey44a1-
Remember: less irritation means more pleasure.
And SmahaB ey44a1 is the ONE cigarette proved 
definitely less irritating, definitely milder, 
than any other leading brand.
NO OTHER CIGARETTE 
CAN MAKE THAT STATEMENT.

---------------------------------------------------

4TAWANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1949
Tartans Crush Bethany in Opener, 41-6
IM Football
Season Opens
Defending TJST's Fail 
Enter Team This Year
CITs intramural football pror 
gram, featuring several altera
tions of last years setup, got un
derway this week.
Of great surprise is the fact 
that TNT, last years champion
ship team, will not enter a group 
this year. The other two league 
winners of last season, Sigma Nu 
and Emanon, will both be out for 
repeat performances.
Emanon Boasts Frosh
The Sigma Nu team will count 
heavily on the passing arm of Jim 
Houthouse, however, their attack 
will certainly miss Jack Riehl at 
the end spot. Emanon boasts a 
crew of freshmen as well as most 
of the 1948 veterans: Pete Katsefanas, John Barr, Frank Becker. 
Bob Boyer, and Art Pionkoski.
Not much is known of the 
strength of the other teams. The 
PiKA aggregation bases their 
hopes on the speed of Bill McKibbin, the receiving ability of 
end Rich Johnson and the passing 
of A1 Yarian.
TX About Same
Phi Kappa looms as a contender 
for the crown with Jack Collins 
returning to the lineup. Theta Xi 
has virtually the same team to 
offer this year. A1 Deeds and Bill 
Oxley are the men to watch in 
the backfield.
The Dorm Dukes are a new or
ganization on the roster. The 
Dukes are a combination of the 
Freshman Ax-chitects and the 
Stanley Steams. Milton DeJean 
cind Dick Emmer, holdovers from 
the last years Steamers, are ex
pected to spark the Dukes this 
season.
This year the managers of the 
playing teams will be held respon
sible for equipment. At the pres
ent time there is a shortage of 
officials for the contests and any
one who is interested in officiat
ing games is requested to contact 
Mr. David See, supervisor of in
tramural athletics.
NAOJ yEUKSOTN OBNAW !K'NRWKRERIATAW
Varsity Soccer Practice Starts 
With 30 Candidates Present
With an initial turnout of 30 men battling for first team positions, 
early indications point toward a highly successful season for the 
Carnegie Tech soccer team. Coach Pat OConnor has been running 
his Tartan hopefuls through daily drills for the past two weeks and 
has been greatly encouraged by the promising showing made by 
tl^ squad thus far. ^
- Although Coach OConnor has 
declined to make any comment as 
to how the team will fare during
the eight-game schedule ahead, he 
has indicated that he expects to 
better last season's record of three 
victories as against four setbacks. 
However, Bill deVos. veteran cap
tain of the squad, has not hesi
tated in voicing the opinion that 
the Tartan booters are headed for 
a banner year.
Veterans Back
Along with deVos, seven mem
bers of last years squad have re
turned to form the nucleus of the 
1949 agrgation. These include 
such outstanding performers as 
Jack Burrey, Bill Cotter, Chuck 
Clinton, Santiago Crespo. Francis 
Jenkins, George Less, and Bob 
Lipp.
A great number of the new
comers to the squad have had 
previous soccer experience. Three 
boys who hail from Central and
South America, George Hasfura, 
Henry Kannee, and Armando 
Grisanti, have had intensive train
ing in the game, since socer is a 
major sport in their respective 
countries.
Jim Vaux, a Shadyside academy 
product, and Barry Wai'tenberg, 
who hails from Worcester acad
emy, played varsity soccer in 
preparatory scht%)l.
Games Scheduled
Coach OConnor plans to sched
ule two practice games before the 
regular season gets, underway on 
October 15.
In the season opener, the Tar
tan booters will travel to Frostburg, Maryland, where they will 
meet the Frostburg Teachers, who 
boast an extremely powerful team. 
The next two contests are sched
uled to be' played on home 
grounds, against Slipper Rock on 
October 22 and Oberlin on Octo
ber 29.
1949 Ta rt a n F o bal I Roster
No. Name Pos. Wt. Ht.
10 Brourman, Jack ................................QB 168* 5*11"
22 DeGiovanni, Augie ...........................IIB 155 54
12 Dissen, Gilbert P................................FB 180 5'104
15 Dodson, Albert ..................................QB 185 6 0'
23 Donato, Vincent W................................E 180 59
29 Dougherty, Robert W..............................E 190 62
21 Fougere, Lou ........................................E 180 60
49 Freeman, Clyde B...................................C 208 60
20 Fuellgraf, Chuck ................................C 185 6*1
42 Galanda, Joseph ....................................T 210 6 1
32 Haney, Thomas P................................FB 175 5*11
45 Holtz, Quentin C..................................QB 180 510"
34 Kamaras, Dean ....................................C 185 5*10Vi'
 Kaye, John A..........................................T 180 5'11 Vz
52 Keats, Norman ................................... T 235 6'1"
33 Kenney, H. Wesley ..........................FB 175 59
30 Lange, Hans W........................................T 180 61
35 Luchok, John.................................. IIB 180 6 0"
51 Madden, Stephen F............................ G 205 5'9
37 Magnifico, John J........................... FB 190 6 1"
17 Metzger, Elmer A..............................HB 165 59"
48 Meyers, Gerald C...................................T 210 62
24 Norton, James F.....................................G 180 5'8
53 Odeh, Robert E....................................G 220 6 0
44 Rowe, Wilfred ............................... IIB 175 5*1l'/2
19 Rubin, Raymond A............................IIB 165 5'11
38 Rusnak, George A................................T 228 511
25 Simeic, Nicholas F..............................IIB 175 5*11
11 Sommer, Robert J........................... QB 178 6*0
 Spezialatti, Ilario ...............................T 180 5* 11
43 Stahle, ..................................................T 190 GO
40 Startzell, Dale E.................................IIB 175 510
46 Stovicek, Larry G.................................G 208 6*2"
50 Trautman, James F.............................C 215 6'2"
41 Vodenichar, James .............................G 170 5*9' 2
26 Wagner, Edwin J.................................G 186 5*10"
14 Warner, Raymond F.........................IIB 160 5*9''
36 Whitenight, Herman ...........................T 180 6*0"
18 Wilson, Fritz A....................................E 180 6*1"
31 Wiseman, Floyd L................................G 190 5*11*
- Whitehead, Ken .................................G 160 5*9!/2
Hometown Yrs. on squad
Pittsburgh .................................1
Mt. Lebanon, Pa......................3
New Castle, Pa............ 1
 1
Pittsburgh ................................2
Pottsville, Pa..........................3
Sagamore, Mass........................2
Bradford, Pa..............................1
 1
Marianna, Pa..............................1
Emsworth, Pa............................3
Hastings, Pa..............................2
Pittsburgh ................................3
Pittsburgh ................................1
Brooklyn, N. Y........................4
Dayton, Q........................... 4
Pittsburgh ................................2
Richeyville, Pa..........................2
Crafton, Pa................................3
Flushing, N. Y..........................3
Mt. Lebanon, Pa........................1
Buffalo, N. Y, ..........................4
Erie, Pa......................................3
Akron. O. . ..'..........................1
Akron, O. . ...............................1
Almwood Pk., Ill.....................1
Whitaker, Pa............................2
Pittsburgh ...............................2
Mt. Lebanon, Pa......................3
Coraopolis, Pa...........................1
. . ...................................................................................................1
Sprankle Hills, Pa..................2
C leveland, 0..............................3
Bucyrus, 0................................4
Sharon, Pa. ..............................1
Verona, Pa...........................1
Brackenridge, Pa............ . .4
Munhall. Pa...............................1
McKeesport, Pa........................2
Monessen, Pa.............................3
Pitcairn, Pa...............................1
[Continued from page 1]TD Scored On Opening Play; 
Work Of Linemen Outstanding
Simcic, Metzger Score Two Touchdowns; 
Stovicek, Wiseman, Meyers Star On Defense
Wes Kenney added the first of, five extra points.
Giant guard Larry Stovicek set up the second six-pointer when 
he blocked and recovered a Bethany quick-kick on the opponents 
20 yard line. On the next play Simcic took a lateral from quar
terback Bob Sommer, faked an end run, and then passed to end
Lou Fougere who went over^=------------------------------------------------------
standing up.
Bethany took the kickoff and 
drove to the Carnegie 39 before 
being stopped. With the second 
team in the game, the Tartans 
marched 61 yards for their third 
score, the key play being a 33- 
yard heave from Holtz to Rowe, 
who made a one-handecf catch on 
the Bethany one-yard line. Holtz 
bucked over on a quarterback 
sneak on the next play.
Metzgers turn came after Beth
any punted to the Carnegie 28- 
yard line midway through the 
second period. The diminutive 
halfback found a hole at left guard 
and raced 72 yards through the 
entire Bethany team for the touch
down.
Bethany's lone tally came in the 
closing minutes of the first half 
on a 76-yard sustained drive, 
culminated by a 19-yard aerial 
from Antila to Kamerer. Wiseman 
blocked the extra point try and 
the Tartans led at half time, 27-6.
The second half saw Carnegie 
roll to two more touchdowns while 
holding Bethany scoreless. Simcic 
scored his second of the day on a 
plunge from the one-foot line, 
and Metzger followed with his 
second, a 19-yard jaunt through 
the center of the line.
Coach Baker, although pleased 
by the teams showing, feels that 
the Tartarfs still have a great deal 
to learn. He indicated that he 
considered Bethany the easiest 
team on the schedule and that 
they were overconfident. How
ever, he added, If we maintain 
the spirit shown today, well be 
tough for anybody.
The Tartan gridders will face
Alberts Leads 
Harriers In First 
Time Tryouts
Johnny Alberts, sophomore 
standout, paced fourteen men who 
participated in a time tryout for 
the cross country team in a run 
held over the Schenley Park 
course last Friday. Traveling over 
an approximate four mile distance, 
he finished in a good time of 22:13.
Finishing only four seconds be
hind the leader, John Cooper came 
in a strong second to maintain his 
important form and rate as one 
of the mainstays of the team. Car
man, in his first season on the 
squad, came in tnird giving the 
team unexpected strength.
Cockrell Fourth
Gene Cockrell, captain of the 
team and an outstanding runner 
in the district, finished a strong 
[Continued on page 5]
a stronger test on Saturday when 
they open the home season against 
a powerful St. Francis eleven.
The lineups:
Carnegie TechEnds-Fougere, Wilson, Daugherty, Rowe.
TacklesMeyers, Keats, Galanda, Lange, Stahle, Whitenight.GuardsWiseman, Stovicek, Madden, Vodenichar. Norton, Odeh, Wagner.CentersTrautman, Kamaras, Freeman.
BacksSommer, Haney, Simeic, Luchock, Metzger, DeGiovanni, Dissen, Warner, Rubin, Holtz, Brourman, Donato, Kenney, Magnifico, Stratzell.BethanyMakris, Marshall. Oakes, Roper, Kinsey, Cottington, Wampler, Lee, G.. Kamerer, Antila, Levine, Raney, Taibi, Johnson, Romagnoli, Staples, Bellas, Nast, Nicholas, Murphy, Rapp, Farrell, R. Kamerer.
-IOSaKT)
Spalding
sets the pace 
in sports

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1949TAWAN
cigarette 
Camels.
course
Cross Country
[Continued, from page 41 
fourth, a few paces ahead of Skip 
Mitchell who rounded out the first 
five.
Mitchell, however, who is a 
transfer student will be unable to 
participate in the collegiate meets 
with Carnegie due to the one year 
residence requirement. Coach Guy 
Halferty expects to make use of 
the diminutive speedsters ability 
in all informal engagements.
Welcome news is the fact that 
veteran runner, A1 Yarian, partic
ipated in the tryouts and removed 
doubts as to whether he would be 
able to compete this year.
Meet Scheduled
A practice meet will be held this 
Saturday, October 8, with the 
Jeannette Harriers, an independ
ent organization. The first inter
collegiate meet is scheduled with 
Franklin and Marshall at Lancas
ter, Pa., Saturday, October 15, in 
conjunction with the football 
game.
All indications point towards a 
highly successful season for the 
team.
The time recorded in the time 
trials were: Alberts, 22:13; Cooper, 
22:17; Carman, 23:05; Cockrell, 
23:35; Mitchell, 24:05; McElhaney, 
24:10; Peth, 26:45; Stackhouse, 
27:16; Ceranowicz, 28:10.
For That Quick Bite, the
SPORT (ENTER GRILL
kgLk Beudr Olb,l
Fast Service and Good Food 
IDEAL FOR LUNCH
Bill Dorns______________
Plaid Gridders Ready 
For Tougher Opponent 
Saturday: St. Francis
The winles,s era in Carnegie football has come to a close. 
By thoroughly trampling an amazed Bethany eleven 41 to 6 
last Saturday, the Tartan gridders left little doubt regarding 
the authority of that.statement,
From the very onset of the game the Plaid was in com-t 
plete command, They won the toss and elected to receive. Xicfc 
Simcic, looking more like the Simeic of old than ever before 
this fall, ripped through tackle on the first scrimmage play; 
and galloped 62 yards for the first of six scores.
It is quite probable that the opening play was a deciding 
factor in the outcome of the remainder of the game. Bethany 
had lost the game right then. They never recovered from the 
explosiveness of the first tally.
Eveidently the Scots never quite recovered 'either for they; 
put on a brilliant display of touchdown power from every posi
tion on the dust laden Wellsburg High field all afternoon.
They, of course, made the usual mistakes which are present 
in opening contests. Everything considered, however, they ap
peared to be ready for bigger game than the Bisons.
It doesn't seem as if theyll find it this Saturday. St. Francis 
college should not be of much higher calibre than the Bethany 
squad and the advantage of Forbes Field should add to the 
Tartans favor. The game, nevertheless, does not figure to be 
a runaway of the same type.
Coach I. V. Davis Red Flash boasts a dangerous triple 
threat halfback in Danny Marchitello and a better than aver
age passer in quarterback Eddie Del Grande.
Its been a long time, since we watched the scrappy Del 
Grande perform for Mt. Lebanon high school, but he gave 
every indication at that time of developing into a first line 
quarterback and rumors says he has fulfilled the expectations.
At any rate, the Plaid will be seeking their first Forbes 
Field victory in 21 years. They moved to the Pitt stadium in 
1929 and since their return to the baseball park have been 
winless at home.
Last weeks football scores brought some interesting de
velopments in Carnegies future anticipations.
Lehigh looks like the tough spot on the schedule as was 
to be expected. They easily stopped Case, 39-7, after having 
smothered Franklin & Marshall by a 53-0 count the previous 
week.
Johns Hopkins 14-13 win over the Diplomats of F & M, 
however, throws a different light on the matter. It eould be 
that the Dips have been highly over rated this year and arent 
as strong as they have traditionally been.
Comparing scores is dangerous business, but the fact that 
Case was able to hold Lehigh's powerful juggernaut to a 
lower score than the F & M squad upholds our conclusions. 
Therell be another chance for comparison next week when 
Dickinson, who lost to Grove City this week, visits Lancaster.
The Plaid invades the Eastern city the following week
end for the stiffest test of the young season.
Sportscope
The Opposition
Carnegies future football op
ponents registered these scores 
last Saturday:
Johns Hopkins 14 . . F & M 13
LEHIGH 39 ............... CASE 7
Geneva 13___WASH-JEFF 6
GROVE CITY 25 . . Dickson 6
Centre 48........MARIETTA 16
Teams in capital letters will 
meet the Tartans later this sea
son.
Inframural Schedule
Tuesday, October 4Tau Delts vs. Phi Kappa, Field No. 1; PiKA vs. Obelisks, Field No. 2; Sigma Nu vs. P&D No. 2, Field No. 3.WednesdayBeta Sigs vs. Citcom, Field No. 1; TX vs. Dorm Dukes, Field No. 2; DU vs. ATO. Field No. 3.ThursdayP&D No. 1 vs. Newman, Field No. 1; Beta Theta Pi vs. Delts, Field No. 2.FridaySAE vs. Obelisks, Field No. 3.MondayOctober 10FPHA vs. P&D No. 2, Field No. 1; Phi Kappa vs. Citcom, Field No. 2.TuesdayASCE vs. Dorm Dukes, Field No. 1; Kappa Sigma vs. ATO, Field No. 2; Tau Delts vs. Newman, Field No. 3.
Managers Clnb 
Eleets Bishop
Rest Periods Shortened 
By Iiitramural Board
Intramural athletics two ad
ministrative bodies opened their 
current sessions last Tuesday, Sep
tember 27, in preparation for the 
impending touch football season.
Election of officers at the Intra
mural board meeting was forced 
to a standstill when the presiden
tial voting ended in a 6-6 dead
lock between the two candidates, 
Jack Collins of Phi Kappa and 
Bill Dorn of Pi Kappa Alpha. The 
tie necessitated that all elections 
be postponed for another week.
Meanwhile the board voted to 
shorten the intermission periods 
of the touch football games to one 
minute between quarters and two 
minutes between halves. A new 
ruling, providing for forfeits on 
the part of one or both teams in 
the event either or both are un
prepared to start the contest at 
4:40 p. m., was also made official 
at the first meeting.
Jay Fried, Beta Sigma Rho rep
resentative, was appointed IM 
board head of the touch football 
competition.
The Managers club, just prior 
to the board meeting, elected Jack 
Bishop of Delta Tau Delta its new 
president and board representa
tive. Willie Trimble of Phi Kappa 
and Art Pienkoski of Emanon 
were elected vice president and 
secretary respectively.
Tarten Lineman of the Week
ivoi ui uuiiuicuo ui uiuu auu wvuiun
who smoked Camels  and only Camelsfor 
30 consecutive days, noted throat specialists, 
making weekly examinations, reported
TRN RTA -KT)SA 'O-A RB NZWRON KWWKNONKRT DUE TO SMOKING 'OJAS-.
Floyd Wiseman
MKNZ -JRGAWMZR GTRMpppKNGOWN BY MARY MEAD MADDICK 
-JEWELS BY REINAD
'Floyd Wiseman, starting right 
guard, became the first of the 
Tartons choices as Carnegie Line
man of the Week for his stellar
work in the overwhelming victory 
over Bethany last Saturday after
noon.
Wiseman was a tower of 
strength on both offense and de
fense for the Plaid all day. He 
supplemented his bang-up style 
of play by recovering one of the 
three Bison fumbles and blocked 
an opposition punt on the 20 yard 
line. The latter play set up the 
second touchdown about midway 
in the first quarter.
Wiseman, who is a junior in the 
department of industrial admin
istration, is now in his third year 
of football at Carnegie. He was 
rated by many as the finest perfprmer the Scots could boast in 
the line last year.

---------------------------------------------------

6NicikSTUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1949
LUCKIES FAY MORE
for fine tobacco
(millions of dollars more than official parity prices)
LUCKIES FAY MORE
for cigarette research
We are convinced:
Scot Magazine Becomes Reality 
By Unanimous Vote of Council
Plans Made For Class Of "53 Elections; 
Proposed Film Group Organization Approved
The Scot is now a reality.
After months of preparation and planning the constitution of 
Carnegies new variety magazine won a unanimous vote of approval 
from Student Council last Wednesday. Council thus paved the way
for the publication of the first of^, . . timates of profits and exagger-six proposed issue to appear in
the near future.
Publications Committee chair
man, Jim Reynolds, proposed that 
Cano and the Carnegie Technical 
be separately organized. ' This 
proposition also found approval 
with Council.
Success Predicted 
Budget chairman Arthur Zuck 
presented a detailed budget for 
the Scot. With conservative esated estimates of cost, the Scot 
had very slim chances of operat
ing at a loss, said Mr. Zuck. Burt 
Wells, editor-in-chief of the new 
magazine, convinced council that 
operating proceduresparticular
ly the reproduction process 
would keep costs within limits of 
the budget. (A detailed story on 
the new Scot appears on page one.)
In discussing tne present po
sition of Cano in relation to the 
Technical, Mr. Reynolds asked, 
Under whose jurisdiction is 
Cano? Again by a unanimous 
vote Cano was placed under the 
jurisdiction of the minor publica
tions board, and the Technical 
was placed under the executive 
board set up for it by the council. 
In the past the Technical board 
has watched over Cano operations.
Frosh Elections 
Following the recommendations 
of Bob Horsch, Elections Com
mittee chairman, Council ruled 
that all freshmen seeking an of
fice in the organization of the 
Class of 53 must have their peti
tions into the Dean of Mens of
fice by Tuesday, October 18. A 
complete list of candidates will 
appear in the October 25th Tartan. 
He also suggested that a request 
be made to Alpha Phi Omega to 
conduct the election on Novem
ber 1.
In a continued approving frame 
of mind Council welcomed a pro
posed film group organization.
Dorothy Cantor, representing the 
senior Painting and Design stu
dents, announced the organiza
tion of the group to sponsor 
unique motion picture films. The 
group sought and were granted 
permission to present the films to 
the student body. Council asked 
that the group draw up and sub
mit a formal constitution which 
would allow it to become an offi
cial campus organization.
AvIAWN WAIOKWRADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO ELECTRIC CO.
1133 OAKLAND AVE. MA. 1-4211
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
25 YEARS EXPERIENCE
Your Service
Let's go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice (ream (ones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
Three Stores in the College District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
Main Plant:
3380 Boulevard of the Allies
To give you a finer cigarette Lucky Strike maintains
AMERICAS FINEST CIGARETTE LABORATORY
Americas largest cigarette research laboratory is your 
guarantee that Luckies are a finer cigarette!
Testing tobacco. Samples from every tobaccogrowing area are analyzed before and after pur
chase. These extensive scientific analyses, along 
with the expert judgment of Lucky Strike buyers, 
assure you that the tobacco in Luckies is fine!
So round, so firm, so fully packed. Typical of many 
devices designed to maintain standards of quality, this 
mechanism helps avoid loose ends . . . makes doubly 
sure your Lucky i* so round, so firm, so fully packed.
So free and easy on the draw. This meter draws 
air through the cigarette, measures the draw. Samples 
are tested to see if they are properly filled. Tests like 
f-hiH guarantee Luckies are free and easy on the draw.
So, for your own real deepdown smoking enjoyment
Lucky Strikes fine to
bacco and constant re
search combine to give 
you a finer cigarette. 
Inol drec do wxo,nq
cltup U,x m Cmndob ouu 
S,Cielc doHmx.
'RIWp? NZA OJAWK'OT NRUO''R 'RJIOTD
from every tobacco-growing area ... is flowing 
into the laboratory in Richmond, Virginia. 
These samples are scientifically analyzed, and 
reports of their quality go to the men who buy 
at auction for the makers of Lucky Strike.
Armed with this confidential, scientific in
formationand their own sound judgment 
these men go after finer tobacco. This fine 
tobaccotogether with scientifically controlled 
manufacturing methodsis your assurance that 
there is no finer cigarette than Lucky Strike!
You see here the largest and most complete 
laboratory of its kind operated by any 
cigarette manufacturer in America.
For many years Lucky Strike scientists have 
delved into cigarette research on an extensive 
scale. Out of this has grown an elaborate system 
of quality control. Every step in the making of 
Luckiesfrom before the tobacco is bought 
until the finished cigarette reaches youcomes 
under the laboratorys watchful eye. As you 
read this, a constant stream of tobacco... samples

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1949TAWAN7
EVERY MAN HAS A REP!
Arrow dealer can
fix you up quickly.
Arrow's pure silk 
rep striped ties 
come in most
college colors and 
are made in the
new narrow shape, 
regular shape 
and bows.WA)ESOW 
-ZOIA
TAM
-ZOIA
DO CLOTHES MAKE THE MAN? Writ for your fre copy of "Ths 
What, When and Wear of Men'* Clothing." Colltg* Dept., Cluett, Peobody & Co., In., 10 E. 40th St., N. Y. 16, N. Y.
ARROW SHIRTS
NKAETaAWMAOW  ZOTaGAW'ZKAB-IRWN-ZKWNStudents Are Welcomed at
-Np OTaWAMLutheran Church
11 A. M. Worship10 A. M. Bible Classes 
6 P. M. Youth Supper,2nd & 4th Sun.
HEADQUARTERS: LUTHERAN 
STUDENTS ASSOCIATION
O L"*Jeb,dl MmtiP 
Jonl&ooH 1 'lbdnl Olcp
FREE INSPECTION
Is your watch at home liwlfM 
or dor it keep poor time? Let 
us fix it up right with our ex
pert cleaning, oiling and re
pairs if necessary, (genuine 
parts. Scientific regulation. 
All work guaranteed by us.
-p UKT-NR'G
JEWELERS, INC
wuo,n Credit Jewelers"
3792 FORBES STREET 
SC. 1-4453
About this time each year we make an appeal to all the 
evening students, and. especially to those who are attending 
Carnegie Tech for the first time, to join us in the various activi
ties which are sponsored by the Evening Student Council. In 
the past five or six years, almost all of the activities on the 
campus have been handled by a small group of interested stu
dents. This situation is unfair to the whole student body, for 
^they do not get the benefit of a greater representation, and it 
is unfair to the few wrho must do all the work.
The Plaid especially needs additions to its staff. At pres
ent most of the staff members are also on Student Council. 
This gives rise to the situation where the Plaid almost becomes 
the official organ of the student government rather than a stu
dent operated newspaper. The editors are lookiijg for new
comers wTith interest and ability as typists and reporters. Any
one who wishes to aid in making the Plaid the best evening 
school newspaper in the country should come to our office in 
the Carnegie Union on Friday evening any time after 8 -.30 p. m.
MENS WEAK
i$ 5816 Forbes St. Squirrel Hill
Open Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
SARTOWa(- JAT-ZRI
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. Oakland
Make "BUD" your ARROW 
Headquarters
236 Diamond St.
Across From Donahoes
ATlantic 2964
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology.
Co-editors ......................i.......... George Schussler, Robert EJlstrom
Circulation Managers .. Richard Van Halinger, Anthony Barbarino 
Reporters ............................................ Frank Mihelich, Allen Hempshire
Annual Appeal
J. Paul Sbeedy* Switched to WHdroot ( ream-Oil 
Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
LOOK AT Sheedy all puffed up with pride. And to think that 
only last week he almost croaked when he found he couldnt 
pass the Finger-Nail Test. Then a friend put him wiae to 
Wikiroot Cream-Oil hair tonic. Now hes the big noise on the 
campus. Non-alcoholic Wild root contains Lanolin, keeps hair 
neat and well-groomed all day long. Relieves annoying dry
ness, removes loose, ugly dandruff. So if you haven't switched 
to Wildroot, better hop to it right away. Get Wikiroot CreamOil in bottles or tubes at your nearest drug or toilet goods 
counter. And don't froget to ask your barber for professional 
applications I (One at a time, of course!)
+ / 327 Bttrrfgbs Dr., SmyJtr, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Ic., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
Social Science 
Library Moves 
To Top Of IH
Renovation of the third floor of 
Industrieshall to accommodate 
the bulk of Carnegie Techs ref
erence facilities has been complet
ed.
The Main Library, housed in 
rooms 344-360, may be reached by 
either the circular stairway in 
the Administration hall or by the 
next stairway in Industries hall. 
The Main Library contains the 
administrative offices, general ref
erence collection, general period
icals, and books related to all 
courses of study.. The former So
cial Science library has been in
corporated as an Annex in rooms 
345-346. It includes the books on 
all the social sciences and history. 
Government documents are shelv
ed in the reference room, room 
355. The card catalog of the Main 
Library includes the books which 
are housed in the various branch 
libraries as well.
Branch Libraries
Branch libraries are located in 
the various buildings where their 
materials are of most importance. 
Science Library, 155 Engineering 
Hall, contains general books in 
the sciences and engineering and 
specialized materials in chemis
try, physics, chemical engineering, 
and metallurgical engineering. 
Engineering Library, 100 Machin
ery hall, includes specialized books 
for electrical and mechanical en
gineering. Fine Arts Library, Fine 
Arts building, contains books, 
periodicals and reference materials 
in architecture, music, painting, 
and sculpture.
Open All Week
These libraries are open Mon
day through Friday *9 a. m. to 9 
p. m., Saturday 9 a. m. to 12. In 
these rooms the student will find 
the necessary texts and materials 
to help him in the completion of 
his studies and is also a quiet place 
to study.
Evening Student Council
Presents Service Keys
Last Of *48-)49 Business Finished
At Dinner Meeting On Sept. 24
Evening Student Council completed its last bit of old business 
for the scnool year 1948-49 on Saturaay evening, September 24, in 
the main dining room of the Fairfax Apartments.
The affair was held to award 
participated in extra curricular* 
activities.
Invited guests from the admin
istration were called upon to say 
a few words to the awardees, after 
which the awards were made by 
Council President George Bogovich.
Awards Made
The awards were made as fol
lows:
Honorary Awards: Dr. Glen U. 
Cleeton, Ben E. David.
First Award: Marjorie Bomer, 
Richard Van Halanger, Byron 
May, Michael J. Gittens, Mary 
Episcopo, Anthony J. Barbarino, 
Peggy Hoffman, Carl Robert Ellstrom, James E. Frape, Leroy V. 
Rowland, Betty Williams, Harry 
T. Lincoln, and George H. Schuss
ler.
Second Award: George Dawes, 
Patricia Schaffer, John Wm. 
Miller, and Louis Adams.
Third Award: George R. Bogovich, Anthony Miscimarra, Will 
Schnarrenber ger, Raymond 
Schwalm, Albert Snwden, and 
Betty Jane Oberg.
Fourth Award: James Flaherty 
and Cecille Zellner.
Sixth Award: Frank E. Mi
helich.
Fifteenth Award: Chester Biscup.
Guests Present
The faculty guests present were: 
Glen U. Cleeton, Director of 
Evening Classes and Summer 
Session; Webster Jones, Dean of 
College of Engineering and Sci
ence; Josephine Campbell, Dean 
of Women; James A. Dickinson, 
Dean of Men; Ben E. David, As
sistant Dean of Men; Dalziel McKelway, Registrar of Evening 
Classes and Summer Session.
At the close of each school year, 
students work is officially recog
nized by Evening Student Coun
cil at the Insignia Banquet.
insignia keys to the students who
News
AndViews
As an appropriate beginning to 
another school year, News and 
Views would like to welcome 
back its former evening school 
friends, and to at least interest a 
few of the new students who may 
perhaps see this column for the 
first time. We promise to make no 
astounding prophecies, discoveries, 
or revelations; but we will try to 
keep the evening students posted 
on things that happen on the eve
ning school campus.
First we would like to mention 
that the Plaid will again be dis
tributed and placed at the en
trance of all school buildings so 
that each student can pick up a 
copy when either entering or leav
ing the building no matter what 
time his classes begin or end.
To those students who perhaps 
havent yet become acquainted 
with the new officers of Evening 
Student Council we would like 
to introduce them to you. They are 
Council president, Michael Git
tens; vice-president, George 
Dawes; secretary, Pat Schaffer; 
treasurer, Byron May; social 
chairman, John Miller; Council 
advisor, George Bogovich. This 
group promises to faithfully carry 
out their duties and make every 
effort to give the evening students 
a fine, and conscientious adminis
tration.
As we have done in the past and 
will continue to do in the fu
ture, News and Views wishes to 
acknowledge what we consider ex
cellent work on the part of some 
members of the evening school 
group. Our first hurrahs this year 
go to Byron May and James Frape 
for their grand work in editing the 
evening school handbook.
Incidentally, if you care to see 
some of the fifte improvements 
that have been made in the ad
ministration building during the 
past summer, take a look at the 
new class rooms on the second 
floor. These new rooms are the 
fore-runner of the school of In
dustrial Administrations building 
program.
To assure the evening school of 
a full social schedule, the active 
evening school fraternities promise 
to augment the school calendar 
with various functions which is 
consistent with what they have 
done in former years. Since these 
fraternities are interested in stu
dents who participate in activi
ties. there is no better way of at
tracting their attention than by 
attending and helping at the 
scheduled affairs that will be spon
sored by Evening Student Council 
throughout the school year.

---------------------------------------------------

8TAIWANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1949
mNirrkea ke
THE FILE ON THELMA J0RD01
A HAL WALLtS PRODUCT JON 
A PARAMOUNT PICTURE
IT'S MY CIGARETTE
RAINCOATS
Showerproofed
A Few Steps 
Saves You Dollars
HEADLEE'S
URRG -NRWA
3811 FIFTH AVENUE
//M AMEf/CS COUGSfnev're M/U/fn ' 7nevre /OP / -f w/ru mE set mem /m htetsh /neyre /retitse. //. f/tey re i i/r v. /^/w me HOUYWOOD srAfS
Bulletin
Rev. Ford Begins Lectures; 
Newman Club Plans Meeting
Reverend Howard J. Ford, 
Chaplain of the Newman club of 
Carnegie Tech, opened a series of 
talks on the Fundamentals of Re
ligion today in EH 218. These 
talks will continue to be held ev
ery Tuesday at 12:30 in EH 218 
and are open to Catholics and 
non-Catholics alike.
A business-social meeting will 
be held by the Newman club on 
Friday, October 7 at 7:30 in the 
Carnegie Union. Light refresh
ments will be served and all mem
bers are invited to attend. A 
special surprise event will take 
place at some time during the 
evening.
Debate Club To Give Smoker 
For All Potential Members
The Debate club will sponsor a 
smoker for freshmen and others 
interested in debating on Thurs
day, October 6, at 4:30 p. m. in 
the Carnegie Union. Refreshments 
will be served. Last Saturday the
ZomnH
club held a debate in Harrisburg, 
Pennsylvania. New members may 
begin active participation in the 
club immediately.
MMCC Secretarial Club 
Elects Officers For Year
The following officers of the 
Secretarial club were elected on 
September 30: president, Mary
Kapetan; social chairman, Pat 
Snedden; and secretary, Jane 
Robb. %
Kilties May Receive 
Extra Trip This Year
The Kiltie Band may have a 
trip on the house. Director of 
Public Relations, Stanley R. 
March received such a feeler 
from Marietta Colleges Public 
Relation office two weeks ago.
According to Dan McGrew, 
Mariettas publicity director, the 
students have announced their 
willingness to finance the famed 
Kilties trip to the Ohio school 
when the Tartans invade Mariet
ta on November 5.
Get It Out
All possessions left in lockers 
reserved for summer sessions 
must be removed by Saturday, 
October 8.
....................................................
3 HR. SERVICE 
On Dry Cleaning
A'OJIE'SAOTAW4609 Forbes St.
'TO MY FRIENDS ANT) FANS T 
RECOMMEND CHESTERFIELD
