By STEPH STINE
BySTyE PTyHHISNThS
The Board of Trustees has approved an 
increase in the undergraduate tuition rate, 
according to a letter to the campus com'munity submitted by Univer
sity President Robert Mehrabian on February 15.
For the 1993-94 academic 
year, CMU undergraduates 
will be charged $16,960 for 
tuition. This is a six percent 
increase over the current tu
ition rate of $16,000. Last
year's 4.9 percent increase was the loiyest When you set the tuition, youre not 
since 1975, when the cost of tuition wa$ makingthe budget, saidVice President of 
not raised. Enrollment William Elliot. Although speAccording to Mehrabian, tuition revcificallocationshavenotbeenmade,three 
enues are used to improve academic and percent of the tuition increase will be earextracurricular programs and services for marked for undergraduate financial aid,
unie 87, Issue 18Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania22 February 1993
Trustees approve six percent tuition increase
ncrease adds $960 to undergraduate tuition
undergraduates, as well as to help pay 
part of the cost of attracting and retaining 
a top-rank faculty. However, budget deci
sions, such as which programs will receive 
additional funding, will not be decided 
until the trustee meeting in May.
"When you set the tuition, youre 
not making the budget. 
 William Elliot, 
VP for Enrollment
according to Elliot, who emphasized the 
policy of aid-blind admissions.
CMU admits students based on their 
academic or artistic ability and not on their 
financial need. Additionally, the Univer
sity also has undertaken the task of meet
ing the full financial need of each 
student, said Mehrabian. How
ever, the percent increase was pri
marily determined by the eco
nomic status of the nation, ac
cording to Elliot, who said that 
the rate of inflation affected the 
Board of Trusteesdecision.
Mehrabian said that while tu
ition is increased, there remains the need 
for us all to control costs and carefully 
manage our resources. It is imperative that 
we maintain sound fiscal policies and that 
we use these limited resources wisely to the 
benefit of our students, faculty and staff.
Changes in Tuition from 1986 - 1993
20,000
eo
10.000
89 90 91 '92 93 
Years
Financial Aid Office to restructure aid services
By FRANK MICHELS
BySTyE arrNrTyET dhIr fuNTsS
In an effort to establish a new 
system before the 19941995 
school year, the Financial Aid 
Office will follow a new set of 
regulations that would stream
line their current system and al
low them to become a full service 
organization, according to Linda 
Anderson, director of Financial 
Aid.
On February 8, the Financial 
Aid Office sent a packet to the 
parents of students who received 
financial assistance this year. The 
packet contained the CMU un
dergraduate financial aid appli
cation, the Financial Aid Form 
(FAF) specific to the students 
state of residence, the Free Ap
plication for Federal StudentAid 
(FAFSA), and full instructions 
on how to complete the applica
tions.
Anderson said that the FAFSA 
is a simplified form that in
cludes federal core questions, 
whereas the FAF requires supple
mental data. Every student re
ceives packets telling everything, 
Anderson said.
Anderson said that this was 
one step to improve and enhance 
communications between the Fi
nancial Aid Office and the stu
dent body. Anderson also said 
that the instructions provided by 
the Financial Aid Office will high
light areas that may seem con
fusing.
Our goal is to become more 
service oriented, Anderson said. 
In five years, we will become a 
Ml servicing center. According 
to Anderson, its functions will 
include helping students under
stand the following: the appeal 
process, the various loan pro
grams, their bill, room and board 
options, work study and on-campus employment, the different 
payment plans, the steps needed 
to resolve a portion of their remainingbalance, and much more. 
We are becoming a full servicing 
center to enable students to be
come officially enrolled on cam
pus, said Anderson.
There is a new gap of [student] 
financial need, Anderson said. 
CMU does focus on it and com
mits to filling it. According to 
Anderson, $14,398,000 in insti
tutional grant dollars were dis
tributed to students in the 1992 
1993 school year.
Next year, the Financial Aid 
Office will distribute $16,377,000. 
Anderson said, Thats a 13.7 
percent increase, although tuition 
increased only six percent. We 
are continuing to help fill that 
gap [in financial need].
New regulations, such as the 
FAFSA and additional training 
had forced the 15 staff members 
of the Financial AidOfficetomeet 
eight tolO hours a week, accord
ing to Anderson. Anderson said, 
In the past 10 years, the [De
partment of Education] had been 
tacking on more federal regula
tions, and [the Financial Aid Of
fice] has kept taping on to each 
regulation with a new require
ment. We were increasing out 
institutional guidelines; we had 
to simplify.
For example, the federal gov
ernment is changing loan limits 
for the Stafford Loan. According 
to Anderson, in the 1992-1993 
school year, the limit in the 
Stafford Loan for a sophomore is 
$2625.
Next year, the Stafford Loan 
limit will change to $3500.
A similar federal change has 
also affected the Pell Grants au
thorized levels, but according to 
Anderson, They authorize a 
higher award, but they cant ac
commodate it [See Pell Grant 
debts rise, 2/14]. Also, Ander
son said, 'There is now a new 
unsubsidized federal loan pro
gram for students who find in
creased financial need. Accord
ing to Anderson, those students 
who couldnt find financial assis
tance with the current subsidized 
student loan program can now 
use the unsubsidized program.
Since November 1992, the em
ployees of the Financial Aid Of
fice have been working in groups 
to improve the Financial Aid 
Offices processes. In the long 
run, Anderson said, an analy
sis of the current processes will 
help us accommodate those [fed
eral] changes.
One major change that will oc
cur in the future is new system 
software. According to Anderson, 
Darlene LaBarbera, director of 
Enrollment Systems in Adminis
trative Computing and Informa
tion Services (ACIS), has worked 
in correspondence with the Fi
nancial Aid Office to identify cur
rent system requirements.
Anderson also said that the 
Financial Aid Office will merge 
with ACIS, which is now design
ing software that will be more 
user-friendly. We are working 
hard, she said. LaBarbera could 
not be reached for comment.
In the long run, Anderson 
said, we should be making bet
ter use of our time [so that we] 
have free time to counsel our stu
dents. She said, We have to 
help students resolve and solve 
their problems. '
We are aware that we need to 
rework our processes, Anderson 
said. You cant hope to improve 
unless you know what youre do
ing ... We have been receiving 
training to re-engineer our pro
cesses, and we are enhancing our 
system.
Jennifer Urso/Tartan Photo Editor
CMU has been the site for major construction projects at Margaret Morrison 
(L), the tennis courts behind Sklbo (C), and over at CFA (R). Tennis court 
construction Is scheduled to end by the beginning of the fall '93 semester. 
CFA and Margaret Morrison construction will continue for at least another 
12 months, according to University construction reports.
Provost commissions womens committee
By DECLAN McCULLAGH
BySTyE PTyHHISNThS
Inside
Classifieds...........................11 Scotch n Soda presented Falsettoland on Friday, the sequel to the
omics.................................L4 play March of the Falsettos. Please see our story on page L9.
diversions..........................L7 _________________________________
Features...........................LI * ^an yu believe it? ColumForum................. 6 talk about politics!
Sports........................ 9 Phh typh v
Calendar...............................Lio
VoxPopuli............. L10 * How does safety at CMU shape
up compared to other schools?
Phh typh ni
The Tartan will not 
publish next week <lue 
to mid-semester break. 
We will resume publica
tion on March 8.
Carnegie Mellon, like many other schools with a 
technical bent, suffers greatly from the inability of 
the school to attract large numbers of women, 
especially in engineering disciplines.
Two decades ago, the University realized these 
problems and created a task force which, iff its final 
report, made dozens of recommendations which 
centered around the lack of female representation 
in faculty and administrative positions and the 
increasing decline of educational opportunities for 
women at Carnegie Mellon.
Now, 21 years later, a second committee created 
by the Office of the Provost in order to determine 
the current needs of women on campus is readying 
its findings in a report to be presented to President 
Robert Mehrabian by the end of the semester.
The new Commission on the Status and Needs of 
Women, organized a year ago, is charged with 
determining the current position of women then 
recommending ways the University can attract 
and develop a greater number of qualified women 
students, faculty, and staff
Attracting capable women to technical disci
plines is especially important. For instance, while 
the number of male and female students in CFA is 
about equal, CIT males outnumber their female 
counterparts nearly 10 to one.
Some evidence points to early systematic sex role 
stereotyping as the cause for these differences. 
Even elementary school teachers may be at fault, 
say Barbara Lazarus and Indira Nair in a column 
published in the December 1991 csg,r newsletter: 
Girls reported having far fewer opportunities to 
use science apparatus.... By age 13, girls develop a 
narrow view of science and show little faith in the 
contribution of technology to resolving world prob
lems, said the authors.
This phenomena does appear to be limited to 
technical disciplines, for while fully half of all, 
bachelors degrees went to women, the percentage
of engineering degrees awarded to women has 
remained constant for the past few years at about 
15 percent.
Even at more advanced levels of education, 
women continue to be underrepresented. Not only 
are a mere nine percent of PhDs in engineering 
granted to women, studies also show women are
- less likely to receive tenure.
And, says a study conducted in 1990 by a Princeton 
University task force, women are less likely to 
enjoy pursuing an advanced degree. The study 
found that while both undergraduate women and 
men were satisfied with their college experiences, 
graduate women were less likely to bo satisfied 
than males.
A series of informal interviews published in 1989 
by the University Teaching Center provides some 
explanation.
The interviews, conducted by Susan Ambroze, 
director of the University Teaching Center and 
Lazarus, described certain behaviors which stu
dents identified as barriers to equality.
^Common behavior patterns identified include 
women being interrupted or ignored in group set
tings, subjected to inappropriate behavior,' or be
ing patronized by men. Finally, concluded the 
report, there is a substantial body of evidence that 
women at Carnegie Mellon are treated as social 
inferiors.
Paul Christiano, University Provost, promises 
that the new commission will take the current 
situation into account.
Said Christiano,The reason were doing this is 
that in some fields women are underrepresented. 
The commission is charged with exploiting the 
talents of and attracting more underrepresented 
individuals to the University.
Christiano believes that the committee, co
chaired by Patricia Carpenter, psychology profes
sor, and Patricia Laughlin, associate dean of CIT, 
will have some valuable findings, though he cau
tions that there were no pressing difficulties leadPlease 9ee COMMITTEE, page S
THE TARIM
7

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  22 February 1993
THIS JUST IN 
PA considers organ donor bill
PITTSBURGH, February 16 
(State Senate PreBS Release)  
Legislation which would give new 
hope to people on waiting lists for 
organ transplants was announced 
Tuesday by state Senator Michael 
M. Dawida (D-Allegheny).
 Dawidas legislation would 
make Pennsylvania the first state 
in the nation to create a pre
sumption that its residents will 
donate organs. The presumption 
could be easily canceled, but 
Dawida believes it would prompt 
Pennsylvanians and their survi
vors to Bupport organ donation.
Dawida said similar presump
tions are in place in 15 foreign 
countries.
We live in a civilized and com
passionate society, said Dawida, 
yet every four hours someone in 
this country dies because a suit
able organ could not be found for 
transplant.
Dawida said there are approxi
mately 29,000 people on waiting 
lists for organ transplants na
tionwide. About25,000 people die 
nationwide each year who are 
considered medically suitable for 
organ donation, but only about 
4,500 of those people choose to 
donate organs.
"Theres a simple and deadly 
problem of supply and demand, 
Dawida said. Theres also a 
simple solution: more people need 
to understand and support organ 
donation. The legislation I have
proposed will not force anyone to 
donate organs fortransplant. But 
it will force m any Pennsylvanians 
to make a choice. I believe most 
will choose to give the gift of life.
Dawida said his legislation 
would provide many opportuni
ties for Pennsylvanians, or their 
survivors, to refuse organ dona
tion; non-donors would be pro
vided with stickers for their driv
ers licenses or separate non-donor cards. Their names would 
also be entered in a computer 
registry which hospitals would 
have to consult before proceeding 
with a transplant procedure.
Survivors of Pennsylvania resi
dents would be asked if they want 
to change the presumption that
organ donations are authorized.
Dawida said he first learned of 
the concept of presumed consent 
for organ donation several years 
ago while traveling in Europe. 
Among the countries with pre
sumed consent laws are Belgium, 
Switzerland, France, Austria, 
Spain, Greece, and Israel.
Several states in this country 
already have limited presumed 
consent laws for corneas and pi
tuitary glands, Dawida said. 
Pennsylvania will to my knowl
edge be the first to consider pre
sumed consent for all organs. I 
dont believe it will be the last. 
Society cannot continue to stand 
by while people die on transplant 
waiting lists.
China releases imprisoned students
 , BEIJING, February 18 (DJ)  
Wang Dan, the student leader 
\yho was Number One on the Chi
nese governments most-wanted 
list after the 1989 Tiananmen 
massacre, was released from 
prison four months before the end 
of his four-year sentence.
, Wang, 23 years old, was re
leased along with Guo Haifeng, 
27, a former Beijing University
graduate student.
Xinhua news agency said that 
all students sentenced to prison 
in connection with Tiananmen 
have now been set free. But hu
man rights activists disputed this, 
saying that many students jailed 
outside Beijing never have been 
accounted for. They also cited the 
case of Liu Gang, a Beijing Uni
versity graduate student who is
still in jail.
Xinhua also reported that au
thorities in Shanghai released 
Zhu Hongsheng, a 76-year-old 
Roman Catholic priest who had 
been serving a 15-year prison 
term. And the government re
cently released one of the 
countrys longest-held political 
prisoners, WangXizhe, two years 
before his 14-year term was up.
The latest releases come two 
weeks before Olympic Commit
tee officials are scheduled to ar
rive in Beijing to survey possible 
sites for the 2000 Summer Games. 
Analysts also said Beijings hu
man rights gestures are aimed at 
the Clinton administration, 
which will soon decide whether 
to continue to grant China mostfavored-nation trade status.
Clinton apologizes for tax increase
WASHINGTON, February 16 
(DJ)  President Bill Clinton, 
in an address from the White 
House, apologized to middle 
class Americans for the tax in
creases that he plans to pro
pose for the purpose of boosting 
public investment and cutting 
the federal deficit.
In crafting his program, 
Clinton said that he had worked 
hard to meet the goals of creat
ing jobs, expanding education, 
reforming health care, and re
ducing the debt without taxing 
the middle class.
But I cant, he said, blaming 
his failure on the fact that the 
federal deficit had increased so 
much beyond his initial esti
mates and beyond even the 
worst official government esti
mates.
Details of the Presidents pro
posals, which he said are aimed 
at changing the course of the 
American economy, were pre
sented to a joint session of Con
gress on Wednesday.
Clinton had, made defending 
the interests of the middle class
a major theme of his successful 
presidential campaign. Accord
ingly, his switch from proposingatax cutfor such Americans
about a year ago, while cam
paigning in New Hampshire, to 
planning a tax increase is ex
pected to trigger a major politi
cal battle for the allegiance of 
this major group of voters.
To soften the blow of higher 
taxes on average Americans! 
Clinton said that taxpayers 
earning more than $100,000 a 
year would bear 70 percent of 
the taxes he plans to propose.
In addition, he also staked 
out a position against the ex-, 
pected opponents of his plan,, 
forecasting that special inter-, 
ests would be out in force to 
oppose it minutes after thedetails are exposed later this 
week. Such interest groups are 
the defenders of decline, 
Clinton said, casting himself 
and his supporters as the ar,, 
chitects of the future.
If we are vigilant and vocal, 
we can do what we have to do, 
the President said.
U.N. aid to Bosnia halted
NAIROBI, Kenya, February 17 (DJ)The chief 
of the United Nations relief agency said she has 
ordered a halt to aid operations in Sarajevo and 
Serb-held parts of Bosnia-Hercegovina.
Sadako Ogata, the United Nations High Com
missioner for Refugees, cited obstructions by the 
former Yugoslav republics three warring ethnic 
factions.
: I have decided  and it is a painful decision  
to move our convoys back to the bases and suspend 
all activities in Serbian-controlled Bosnia. I have 
decided to suspend all our activities in Sarajevo 
and withdraw most of our staff, leaving only essen
tial staff, and to suspend land and air delivery to 
Sarajevo, she said.
U.N. relief chief Ogata said the U.N. aid opera
tion in Sarajevo would be reduced to only a skel
eton staff.
Ogatas decision would not affect the presence of 
the U.N. peacekeeping operation in the besieged 
Bosnian capital.
; In Goneva, Ogatas office issued a statement 
saying U.N. relief operations would continue in 
; parts of Bosniu where the staff could work safely.
Ogata noted that despite assurances from lead
ers of Bosnian Serbs that U.N. convoys could de
liver food to Muslims besieged in parts of eastern 
Bosnia, Serb commanders had blocked the trucks
since Sunday.
She also pointed to the decision by Bosnias 
Muslim-led government to hinder aid distribu
tion to residents of Sarajevo as a way to protest 
the failure to get aid to Muslims in the east.
This has really meant the humanitarian has 
been linked with the political conflict, Ogata 
said.
She said that left her no option but to halt all 
aid work except in central Bosnia.
Asked what it would take for her to reconsider, 
Ogata said, I would like to have a clear signal 
from party leaders, the Serbian party leaders, to 
live up to the promise they have given us to give 
access to these Serb-besieged pockets of Muslim 
communities.
From the Bosnian government, I would hope 
that they would take into consideration the needs 
of their own citizens  the Sarajevo citizens.
I appreciate their frustration very much.... 
But dont put conditions on relief delivery, said 
the relief chief.
Ogata made the announcement at a news con
ference called to discuss her visit to Somalia and 
talks today with Kenyan President Daniel Arap 
Moi about security problems near Somali refu
gee camps in Kenyas northeast near the Somali 
border.
House votes against whaling
Government seeks to send environmental message
WASHINGTON, February 16 
(AP)The House urged the U.S. 
to remain opposed to any resump
tion of commercial whaling, which 
is being sought by Norway and 
other whaling nations.
The non-binding resolution, 
passed by a vote of 382-0, also 
said the U.S. should work toward 
a moratorium on the direct com
mercial harvest of dolphins and 
porpoises.
The action we take today will 
hopefully send a strong message 
to those countries around the 
globe who think they can resume 
the hunt and slaughter of these 
great whales, said Rep. Sam 
Gejdenson, (D-Conn.).
The Bush administration had 
suggested that the moratorium 
could be lifted and hunting quo
tas set, but only after developing 
rules for counting whale stocks 
and new observation and inspec
tion procedures.
President Bill Clinton has not 
taken a public stand on the whal
ing issue.
Rep. Gerry E. Studds, (DMass.), the chairman of the Mer
chant Marine and Fisheries Com
mittee, said the whale-watching 
industry brings more than $70 
million a year into his states 
economy, proof that living 
whales are a far more valuable 
marine resource than dead 
whales could ever be.
Norway has decided to launch 
a hunt for as many as 800 minke 
whales in the northeast Atlantic 
Ocean, defying an International 
Whaling Commission morato
rium on whaling ordered in 1982. 
The moratorium took effect in 
1986 and is scheduled to last 10 
years.
Norways Prime Minister Gro 
Harlem Brundtland has defended 
her nations decision by arguing 
that the stock of minke whales
has grown to more than 80,000, 
and, fallowed to multiply indefi
nitely, will deplete stocks of fish 
consumed by humans.
The whaling commission has 
no enforcement powers, but so 
far has won grudging compliance 
of its resolutions from Norway, 
Japan, Iceland, and other whal
ing nations. Iceland pulled out of 
the 38-nation body last year, and 
Norway has threatened to do the 
same unless the moratorium 
ends.
With House passage, the whal
ing resolution must next be takeqi 
up by the Senate.
News Briefs courtesy 
Dow Jones Inc. 
Layout by 
Matt Adler
Celebrate Tradition
/tB
Balfour Class Ring!
BySSTET PTPyHITN heo SeNa e SIrTaIPT dfTo afTusHT 
tHTNTHpTv Io e Balfour Class Ring. ntyHaNi ehevTPIhNi 
vTEHTTNi uTeHN yr EHevceaIyoi eov hcNayP NhfyyS vTNIEoN 
heo eSS gT hetacHTv Io uycH Balfour Class Ring.,, e 
aHevIaIyo yr TlhTSSTohT NIohT m-'m b
Monday, February UU ,,, , eRTH MeSSi mFeP 1 'tP 
Tuesday, February U' ,,,, 5fT BeHoTEIT nfyttT mFeP 1 'tP
A $35 deposit is required
Balfour. No one remembers in so manyways.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  22 February 19933
Crime and Incident ReportStudent Senate Minutes
2/14 VEHICLE DAMAGE,
1:50 pm. A student reported that 
Between 10:30 pm Saturday and 
1:30 am Sunday, someone had 
slashed his front and rear tires 
on the passenger side of his car. 
The vehicle was parked in the 
Skibo lot.
2/14 MEDICAL CALL, 6:25 
pm. While descending a staircase 
in a residence hall, a student 
missed a step and lost his bal
ance. He struck his head on the 
wall and blacked out momen
tarily.
He suffered a small laceration 
on the top of his head with some 
swelling. He was transported to 
Presbyterian Hospital.
The reporting officer checked 
the stairs where the incident oc
curred and reported that they 
were well lit, dry, and free of 
debris.
2/14 MEDICAL ASSIST, 7:04 
pm. While waiting in line at a 
CMDS establishment, a student 
suddenly felt light-headed and 
momentarily passed out. Cam
pus Police and Student EMS re
sponded and found her sitting up 
and alert but still very light
headed and nauseous.
She said that she had not eaten 
anything all day and felt that 
was why she had fainted. She 
refused transportation to a medi
cal facility and was informed to 
call Campus Police immediately 
if her condition worsened.
2/15 HARASSMENT BY 
COMMUNICATION, 2:20 am. 
A student contacted Campus Po
lice and stated that someone had 
ordered a pizza and gave her 
name, address, telephone num
ber, and ID number.
The pizza delivery driver real
ized that a mistake had been 
made and left. She was concerned 
that the caller had her ID num
ber.
She also stated that the previ
ous week someone had called her 
and screamed into the phone and 
then hung up. She was advised to 
keep a log of the calls and call 
Campus Police if she received any
more such calls.
2/15 POSSIBLE SCAM, 11:50 
am. The manager of the Carnegie 
Shoppe reported that a person 
who produced a University of 
Pittsburgh ID card requested a 
refund for merchandise without 
a sales receipt. She insisted that 
she did not get a receipt on Fri
day when she made the purchase. 
The manager informed her that 
they did not give out refunds with
out sales receipt but was informed 
by her supervisor to give her the 
refund.
It was later noted that the same 
individual had been in the shop 
on February 11 to exchange mer
chandise without a receipt and 
had received $93 from the clerk.
2/16 THEFT, 2:33 pm. A stu
dent reported that someone had 
removed his brown leather back
pack and his full-length black 
wool coat. The items were in the 
hallway near the public pay phone 
on the fifth floor of Wean Hall. 
The backpack contained other 
miscellaneous items.
2/17 UNSECURED AREA,
1:16 am. While on routine patrol 
in Hamerschlag Hall, Campus 
Police found a door to a room 
unlocked. An interior check was 
made of the room with negative 
results. It was unknown if any
thing was missing or had been 
disturbed.
2/17 THEFT, 2:51 pm. A ser
vice person reported to Campus 
Police that someone had removed 
a turbo chip from the video game 
Street Fighter II. The chip was 
valiied at $1000. There was no 
sign of forced entry.
2/17 VEHICLE DAMAGE,
5:34 pm. Campus Police received 
a call that a vehicle had been 
damaged in the CFA parking lot. 
A student reported that it ap
peared that someone carrying or 
pushing something had dropped 
or pushed it into her vehicle caus
ing damage. The vehicle sus
tained damage to the right front 
fender, parking light, and turn
signal.
2/17 FIRE ALARM, 7:26 pm. 
A fire alarm was set off at a fra
ternity. Campus Police responded 
and found that the heat detector 
in the kitchen was activated. 
Some of the residents had used 
the fryers without turning the 
kitchen fan on. The system was 
reset.
2/17 MEDICAL ESCORT,
10:02 pm. A student reported that 
while working on a project, she 
accidentally cut her finger. She 
was transported to Presbyterian 
Hospital.
2/18 HARASSMENT BY 
COMMUNICATION, 1:53 pm. 
A student walked into Campus 
Security and reported that the 
previous evening, he had received 
a call from a person identifying 
himself as a pizza delivery man. 
The person instructed him to pick 
up a pizza. He stated that he had 
not ordered a pizza. After a short 
discussion, he received another 
call from a person identifying him
self as Sgt. LaPaglia who in
structed him to come to Campus 
Security the next day to sign a 
statement. The student was in
structed to call Campus Police if 
the harassment continued.
Compiled by
MING CHNG
Blh BySTyE tSNETr Tlh Ihhm-' 
bSNUh yEu iEgNuhET htsST ,EuhS 
Tlh Hs--sINEp p,Nuh-NEhrR
 blNhH sH byUt,r Ms-Ngh FyUhr 
nyMyp-Ny Sh1NhIr y-- ShtsSTr tSNsS 
Ts Sh-hyrh5
 .E-' TlShh thst-h sE Blh ByS9
TyE rTyHH rhh Tlh ShtsSTrR Tlh fuN3 
TsS3NE3blNhH Tlh dhIr fuNTsS4 yEu 
Tlh rTyHHISNThS T'tNEp Tlh ShtsST5
 a-- thSrsEyEyUhr sH gsU9
t-yNEyETr4 1NgTNUr4 yEu r,rthgTr 
yEu HSyThSENT' EyUhr ySh sUNTThu 
HSsU Tlh tSNEThu ShtsST5 fTlENg 
uhrgSNtTNsEr yEu sTlhS thSrsEyuhTyN-r ySh pN1hE sE-' NE Tlh gsE9
ThCT sH gsUt-hTh uhrgSNtTNsEr5
 dsT h1hS' NEgNuhET TlyT sgg,Sr 
sE gyUt,r ytthySr NE Tlh ShtsST5
Correction...
FREE CATALOG
sH ws1hSEUhET ossmr
PhEu HsS 's,S gst' Tsuy'$
cShh byTy-sp
osC 6v000 xyrlNEpTsE Lb 00W63v000
In last weeks story Swimmers find mixed success at UAAs, 
the 800-yard freestyle relay team was misidentified. The team 
members were Geoffrey Waller, a CIT freshman; Matt Moe, a 
CIT freshman; Jamie Millar, a senior computer science major; 
and Todd Vandall, a junior mechanical engineering major.
Blh BySTyE gsSShgTr y-- mEsIE hSSsSr sH HygT5 iH 's, mEsI sH 
r,gl yE hSSsS4 gsETygT BySTyE fuNTsS3NE3blNhHoShEuyE gchh-' 
yTCWWW4 sS ISNTh lNU NE gySh sH Blh BySTyE4 PmN7s k05
Hear Award Winning
Theater, Radio, and Television Specialist
Ehud Manor
Share his perspective on Isreal Theater and Drama
Theater the Israel Way
Tuesday, March 2nd 
4:30 pm 
Wherrett Room
Ehud Manor, from the Israel Broadcasting authority, is Pittsburgh's 
1993 Israeli Scholar in Residence. Some if his accomplishments 
include the David Harp Award for his work in "Hair" (1970), 
"Sweeny Todd" (1982), "Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor 
Dreamcoat" (1980), "Les Miserables" (1986), and "Caberet" (1989).
This program is coordinated by B'nai B'rith Hi I lei Foundation and made 
possible by the American Zionist Federation of Pittsburgh.
For more information-call 621-8875
STUDENT
ByySSSSSSTSEP
SENATE
Meeting of 16 February 1993
Roll was taken at 7:03 pm. 
Meeting was called to order at 
7:10 pm.
Senators Present: Bhattacharya (GSIA), Blankley (IM), 
DeRoss (MCS), Engel (CIT), 
Evans (CIT), Fadl (MCS),Goller 
(CIT), Haverkamp (CIT), Holzman (CIT), Jaiswal (GSIA), 
Knight (MCS), Kopchik (HSS), 
Leventhal (CIT), Loomis (GSIA), 
Martin (HSS), Morrow (CIT), 
Ortega (CIT), Potthast (HSS), 
Robe (GSIA), Sollimo (CFA), 
Spaulding (CFA), Szudarek 
(M.atL.), Tomblyn (MCS), WalIhausen (HSS).
Senators Absent: Albert 
(CFA), Knauer (HSS).
Approval of the Minutes: 
The budget hearings were incor
rectly stated to be starting on 
February 12. They will be start
ing on February 17.
Audience Participation: 
Erik Altmann told about results 
of surveys done on bicycle com
muting at CMU last semester. 
This was done as part of a re
search project by undergraduate 
civil engineering major Emma 
Gosden. Altmann read his letter 
to the editor of The Tartan re
garding last weeks PT,uhET 
ENsE article.
Ex-Officio Reports:
Student Affairs (Tim Fos
ter): The Fifth Year Scholar in
formation session will be Thurs
day at 4:30 pm in the Ballroom. 
Saturday there will be a trip to
the Carnegie Science Center 
sponsored by Pittsburgh Hori
zons; cost is $8 and the trip will 
bo from 10-4 pm. Soup and Sub
stance lecture The Future of the 
Clinton Presidency will be Tues
day, 12-1 pm. Julie Paul was 
selected as this year's Vira Heinz 
scholar and will go to Vienna this 
summer.
SDC (Adam Davis): PglssBNhr will play Saturday at 6,8,10 
pm, 12 am. Deadlines for Special 
Interesthousingapplicationswas 
February 12, and the committee 
will decide this week. The Blood 
Drive last week was a success.
President (Natalie Gesmond): Topics to be discussed at 
the Presidents Student Advisory 
Council meeting next week are
1) Bureaucracy at CMU: regis
tration process, Registrars Of
fice, Financial Aid Office, and 
Health Services,
2) Disciplinary actions, and
3) Campus lighting and access 
to parking lots.
Thank you for all your support 
with the SafeWalk project. Please 
contact me with your suggestions 
or interest in participating at 
x4935 or email at ngOn.
Treasurer: There is presently 
no treasurer.
Committee Reports:
Academic Affairs (Yamam 
Fadl): There will be a meeting 
tonight after the regular meet
ing.
Campus Affairs (Burt IIolzman): Brian Engel is playing 
phone/email tag with Computing 
Services regarding covor sheets 
and printouts. Rob Evans is look
ing into prices on portable venti
lation systems for the Tartan. 
Were trying to consolidate groups 
with regards to campus lighting; 
they will be collecting data on
where insufficient lighting exists 
on campus. Tony and Mike are 
investigatingimprovementswith 
CMU Shuttle Service. Postor 
policy enforcement volunteers ai:e 
mooting this week.
Funding and Recognition 
(Dave Martin): Budget Hear
ings start tomorrow.
Human Resources (Ann 
Kopchik): The retreat will be 
Saturday. Were looking into get
ting cheaper office supplies than 
at the Bookstore. We will get bind
ers for those who need them by 
next week.
Public Relations (Shawn 
Knight): None.
Chair (Greg Haverkamp): 
We now have nine vacancies on 
Senate: 1 CIT, 2 CFA, W5 IM, 2 
Heinz, 1 Misc., 2 SCS.
Old Business: None.
New Business: None.
Points of Discussion: Issues 
discussed included budget hear
ings and shorter meetings. I
Announcements:
 The Health Fair will be in the 
Ballroom tomorrow.
 Thanks for your support with 
SafeWalk. If youre interested in 
helping, contact Natalie Gesmond.
 Campus Affairs meets 6:30 
pm on Tuesday. If youre inter
ested in holpingenforce the postor 
policy, contact Burt Holzman.
 The Skibo Reallocation Committoo will bo forming soon. .
Mooting adjourned at 7:32 pm.
Submitted b 
NAOMI BERNER 
Edited by 
KENDRICK K. CHUA
THE MCS DEAN'S OFFICE
INVITES FACULTY AND STUDENTS
to a reception 
to welcome
Eric Grotzinger
as Associate Dean for 
Undergraduate Affairs
and
Robert Swendsen
as Associate Dean for Faculty and 
Graduate Affairs
in the
Mellon College of Science
The reception will be held on 
MARCH 3,1993 
5:00 P.M. - 6:30 P.M. 
FACULTY DINING ROOM 
SKIBO
Refreshments will be served.

---------------------------------------------------

Results of Student Senate Funding & Recognition 
Budget Hearings
OrganizationSubsidy ($)OrganizationSubsi
Spirit4791Womens Center3940
Rugby1670Robotics250
Dancers Symposium1614SG President0
Amnesty International340Doctors of Carnegie809
Cycling350Student Pugwash1380
WRCT50347*Student Union8365
Oakland Review2000ASA2592
Filmmaking750Computer Club2168
CIA1525Big Brothers/Big Sisters600
Activities Fair4205EMS2645
Explorers2191Fencing1550
Juggling320Kiltie Band8144
Mayur1014Pioneers1968
Student Senate6820IRO400
Celtic Society130Fringe1975
Hockey7770Scuba1622
Thistle25550University Rowing26510
Tartan16850Radio1762
Scotch N Soda5200AB Films25650
AB Main9850AB Coffeehouse17850
AB Special Events12300AB Tech18750
AB Concerts38200AB Lectures17900
Baseball0UEA0
Lacrosse0CMUOut0
Ballroom Dance1968**Ultimate Frisbee0
PSFB34000
*10,000 to be returned to Master Activits FeeBudget not fully resolved
Solutions from your Apple Campus Reseller: 
a full Macintosh line for all your needs.Youre not the only onewhofc carrying a lot of units this semester
'Hie mu-1 
Macintosh Cnlnr Classic.
N o n e 
---------------------SSSS
The new Apple 
Macintosh Centris 610.
n rrrtil m bs
The new Apple 
Macintosh C III.
Right now, your Apple Campus Reseller has the most affordable new for even more power, the Macintosh Centris' 610. See these new computers
line of full-featured Macintosh computers ever. Theres the Apple' Macintosh today at your Apple Campus Reseller. Where youll get special student pricing,
Color Classic' a solid performer at a remarkable price. The Macintosh as well as service during college! And experience the power of Macintosh.
LC III, which tuns 50% faster man its top-selling predecessor, the LCII. And, The power more college students choose. The power to be your best! w
For more information visit the 
Carnegie Mellon Computer Store or call 268-2636
VrrhYiSiinitliiNi'tiiihiniiii.yifilc (imt/nts tillers ubK'btnv.iJ'plc.\ttlbt>i'iu\l\'ma-lii)iitfos Inc. .ill 7'HiemuM .\pplc. Ik Affile Itt&i. }htchllici>iin(rTtv[xmrl<i l\\\vnr u'acn777t nyi<lcn\l Inn/cimiii-s uj.ijplc (.binpttlci: Inc. Mttinilosb Centris is it Irtulcnmrl' of.y ;>!{ Ounpttkr. Inc. (lusksti nyticnxl Innlcintiii liceiisnlfa. \jfilc Lhiii/mhr. Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  22 February 19935
Faculty Senate addresses library problems Commission Oil women formed
j3y MIKE KEATING
HySTyE PTyHHISNThS
On Thursday, February 18, Faculty Senate met 
(o discuss various issues, including the state of the 
yniversity libraries, an amendment to the bylaws 
Jf the Carnegie Mellon Faculty Organization, and 
i proposed policy on Professors Emeriti. Motions 
which carried at the meeting were decisions to 
approve a small change in the Universitys state
ment of assurance, to approve (with amendments) 
a formalization of the evaluation of the President 
sH the University, to accept changes in a policy on 
Professors Emeriti, and to approve Student Senates 
riew poster policy. No motions were defeated.
At the top of the agenda for the Thursday meet
ing was a presentation by University Librarian 
Charles B. Lowry. Lowry began by saying he was 
very pleased with what he called his excellent 
library staff. Most of his presentation dealt with 
; the University Libraries weaknesses and steps 
that would be necessary to correct them. Increased 
I funding will be needed, said Lowry, to further 
develop the LISII system. Another problem with 
which University Libraries would soon be faced 
[ (especially with the demolition of Skibo) is a lack of 
space for students to study. A third problem Lowry 
noted was the incomplete nature of the libraries
: collections. Working more closely with faculty mem1 Ijers, particularly in the Humanities and Fine 
Arcs, would help the University Libraries to de
velop a collection better suited to the needs of 
individual departments.
The Universitys policy on Professors Emeriti 
was changed in a few ways. Changes were aimed 
primarily at clarifying the existing policy, more 
clearly stating the benefits for which Professors 
Emeriti were eligible. There was some debate at 
the meeting over to what extent the policy applied 
to the few other members of the faculty to which 
the title Emeritus or Emerita was conferred upon 
retirement. Senate, however, approved the docu
ment with the specification that it applied specifi
cally to Professors Emeriti, and that in the future 
the status of others with the title would have to be 
clearly defined.
An amendment to the bylaws of the Carnegie 
Mellon Faculty Organization formalized the pro
cess whereby a committee of faculty senate mem
bers assisted the Board of Trustees in evaluating 
the President of the University. This ad hoc com
mittee would by appointed by the Chair of the 
Faculty Senate after consultation with the Execu
tive Committee and approval of Faculty Senate. 
The amendment, proposed by Herb Toor, professor 
of the Chemical Engineering Department, is sim
ply an attempt to put the procedure down on paper. 
Faculty Senate Chair Joseph Kadane said, There 
is no hidden agenda here. Were simply tying up a 
loose end from last year. In the past, this procedure 
was a bit murky. This amendment is designed to 
make the process more definite.
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
CMRI and Robotics 
[Institute develop robot 
aircraft inspector
; A robot designed to detect flaws in the surfaces of 
commercial aircraft has been developed by the 
[ Carnegie Mellon Research Institute (CMRI) in 
| conjunction with the Robotics Institute.
| Code-named ANDI (Automated Non-Destruc! tive Inspector), the robot travels along metal sur
faces on suction cups using sensors to detect flaws 
in seams and abnormalities in the skin of the 
aircraft, according to a press release from CMRI.
According to the release, ANDI can examine 
aircraft twice as fast as human inspectors and can 
record its observations for future reference.
Carnegie Mellons Literary Arts 
and Design Magazine is now
accepting submissions. Send 
fiction, non-fiction, and poetry to
The Tartan Office, Skibo Hall Rm. 
50, in care of Michael Gabriel.
loss
Please include your name, phone 
number, and submission tide.
OSS
loss e
Deadline for the next issue is 
February 26, 1993
loss er
COMMITTEE, from page 1
ing to the commissions creation. It wasnt put 
together because there was a sense of terrible 
problems, though a number of people expressed 
interest to me, said the provost.
The purpose of the 20-person commission, con
tinued Christiano, is to assess where we are, get 
some data, decide where we want to go and how to 
get there.
Concern about the amount of women at the 
University touches even new undergraduates.
Amy McGovern, a freshman computer science 
major, thinks that the current male-female ratio 
among undergraduates is unhealthy. Im not un
comfortable with it, but some women I know com
plain that there arent enough females in their 
classes. I dont think were turning away females, 
but I dont know how to attract any more."
After the commission presents its advisements 
to Mehrabian, he will enact recommendations that 
are accepted after discussing them with the Board 
of Trustees and faculty and staff councils.
CS student wins 
$10,000 scholarship
Shawn Cokus, sophomore computer science ma
jor, is the recipient of a Microsoft Technical Schol
arship. Cokus was awarded $10,000, one of 25 
awarded to science undergraduates nationwide.
Computers have always interested me since an 
early age, said Cokus in a press release from 
Microsoft Corp. To be able to configure a machine 
to perform work of a sort limited only by your 
imagination, creativity, and ability at speeds hu
manly unimaginable was highly attractive. Cokus 
has a 4.0 QPA.
Compiled by 
KENDRICK K. CHUA
Apartments Available 
in the Oakland Area
Efficiency, 1, 2, and 3 Bedroom 
Furnished Apartments 
Laundry Facilities 
Wall to Wall Carpeting 
Security Building
H&P Real Estate 
682-1519
7am - 5pm  Monday thru Sunday
DALMO
OPTICAL
SAVE 20%
A NEW DISCOUNT
FOR CMU STUDENTS, FACULTY 8 STAFF
The 23-Checkpoint Eye Exam:
Our computerized eye exam provides a detailed optometric 
profile. The result... confidence in vision for you.
In-House Laboratories:
One hour service is available from our in-house laboratories, 
and you get Dalmos assurance o( the highest quality and 
accuracy in the industry.
The New Vision  In Frames and Contacts:
Selection. Its the first thing that meets the eye at every 
Dalmo Optical Center. From bold colors and sophisticated 
profiles in frames to Extended Wear, Gas Permeable and 
Disposable Contacts, Dalmo has it all!
Guaranteed Lowest Price:
The finest designs from Europe ... the best designs in America 
... Dalmo has them all for the guaranteed lowest oricc.
Dr. B.H. Grossman, 
Director
SQUIRREL HILL 
5824 FORBES AVE. 
521*2100

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Administration must heed new commission
Through six months of in
vestigations, data analyses, 
discussions, thought, and 
study, the Commissioners have 
Come to perceive CMU as a 
place where women do not en
joy full equality with men ... 
We have come to.realize, how
ever, that the inequalities 
Which exist result not from evil 
intention and deliberate injus
tice but rather from oversight, 
from a failure to examine our 
traditions in light of our val
ues, and to a large extent from 
a general fogginess about what 
Sex discrimination is.This was 
fihe conclusion reached by the 
1971 Commission on the Sta
tus of Women at Carnegie 
Mellon over 20 years ago. What 
changes have been made?
At the time of the last Com
mission, the University was in 
the process of phasing out Mar
garet Morrison Carnegie Col
lege and many predominantly 
female majors such as home 
economics and library science. 
The result of this phasing-out 
process was a substantial de
crease in the number of women 
Students. The male to female 
ratio for students was 3 to 1. An 
effort was made by the Univer
sity to recruit men to primarily 
female majors, but no recipro
cal effort was made by the Uni
versity to recruit women to pre
dominantly male majors. The 
1971 Commission also found 
that the underrepresentation 
of women in both faculty and 
administrative positions was 
qne of the five major problems 
affecting women at CMU. Re
gardless of the unintentional 
nature ofthese problems, there 
is no excuse for their existence.
Recently, vandalism has run 
rampant on campus. It seems 
as though a day cannot go by 
vjdthout someone needlessly 
damaging something. In 
Mudge, for example, all resi
dents have been informed by 
the Housing Office that a 
charge of $40 will be assessed 
and distributed over the resi
dents of the building for each 
time damage has been done to 
the vending machines that sit 
right behind the Mudge desk.
You might think that damag
ing these machines when they 
are only a few feet away from 
the desk attendant would be 
impossible. Unfortunately, 
however, the desk is not al
ways staffed, and there is no 
way of ensuring the machines 
protection.
Mudge isnt alone. In Skibo, 
the mens bathroom near the 
WRCT office has become a com
plete wreck. In the past, the 
door handle was forcibly re
moved, and the restroom has 
lacked a mirror since last se
mester. The mens restroom in 
I?,esnik has deteriorated to 
sterve the function of a sink 
because both stalls have been 
cbmpletely dismantled after 
having been damaged beyond 
repair.
Another area that consisNow there is another Commis
sion on the Status and Needs of 
Women at Carnegie Mellon. The 
current male to female ratio for 
students is still three to one, and 
the current male to female ratio 
for tenured faculty positions is 
five to one.
These figures indicate that we 
have seen minimal change. While 
studying womens needs on cam
pus is a step in the right direc
tion, the University must also 
act upon the findings and recom
mendations of the Commission, 
especially if a climate hostile to
ward women is found to exist.
The Commission is charged 
with studying the status and role 
of women students, faculty, and 
staff. It is also charged with re
porting its findings to the Presi
dent and Provost who will dis
tribute the report for discussion 
in forums such as the Faculty 
Senate and Staff Council. It 
seems strange that the equiva
lent student forum should be 
excluded from having input. 
Since the findings apply to stu
dents, students should also have 
some part in their evaluation, 
whether it be by Student Senate 
or a separate committee.
We strongly encourage Presi
dent Mehrabian to act upon the 
recommendations from the Com
mission, and request that Fac
ulty Senate and the Staff Coun
cil give maximum consideration 
to all reasonable recommenda
tions.
Hopefully, in the next 20 years, 
we will see more improvement 
than in the previous 20 years. It 
will take support in the form of 
vigorous action in order to see 
the status of women at CMU 
improve.
tently suffers damage is the lobby 
of Morewood Gardens, where the 
doors are constantly being lacked 
and shattered. This past Friday, 
someone shattered the glass in 
the A-Tower desk attendants 
booth.
In addition, charges are always 
being assessed to housing resi
dents for fire extinguishers that 
were discharged by vandals.
One of the loudest complaints 
voiced by students at CMU is 
that we pay far too much for 
inadequate services. This is es
pecially prevalent at this time of 
the year, the traditional period 
for tuition increases. But how 
can we rightfully voice our dis
pleasure when we students are 
the ones who constantly damage 
our living and working environ
ments?
Vandalism and its effects also 
make a poor impression on visi
tors to campus, and impressions 
like the condition of the campus 
can be everything when speak
ing of the outside reputation of 
CMU.
This must stop. Students must 
report all vandalism to Campus 
Security and Physical Plant. In 
addition, ifyou see someone van
dalizing something on campus, 
report him or her. If you dont, 
youll only end up footing part of 
the bill yourself.
Person feels ATO abuses 
tradition of the Fence
Editor:
There is a group on 
campus right now that 
is trying to gain the 
students support in 
their fight against the 
administration. They are doing so be
cause of some obscure administrative 
rule that they supposedly broke. But 
right now, they are breaking an unwrit
ten rule that does not come from the 
administration but from the students 
and from tradition. Of course I am speak
ing of Alpha Tau Omega, but the rule I 
am speaking of involves the use of the 
Fence. ATO: It is fine to use the fence in 
your protest, but please abide by that 
unwritten rule, and paint it each night 
you are there.
Name witheld upon request
SafeWaik creators clarify 
editorial suggestions
Editor:
We commend Frank 
Michels and the Edi
torial Board of The 
Tartan on their excel
lent coverage of the 
SafeWaik program. There are a few 
points that we wanted to clarify, how
ever.
It is important to understand that our 
proposal for SafeWaik is still only a 
tenative plan. There are still many is
sues that need to be addressed before 
implementation of SafeWaik is possible. 
It is also important to note that SafeWaik 
is a Student Government project and 
should be recognized as such. In addi
tion, although the program was origi
nally intended to deter crimes against 
women, SafeWaik is designed to increase 
the safety of both men and women. We 
strongly encourage ALL students, re
gardless of age or gender, to utilize and 
participate in this service.
We would also like to briefly address 
two suggestions presented in the edito
rial section. We are discussing with Cam
pus Security the posibility of self-de
fense training of our escort volunteers, 
though we wish to stress that our 
escorters are not expected to defend students, but rather to deter the threat of 
crimes against them. We are also plan
ning to include some basic first aid train
ing for our escorters, as well as training 
on how to handle intoxicated persons. 
The success of the SafeWaik program 
ultimately depends on our ability to ob
tain a sufficient amount of both male 
and female volunteers. If you would like 
to know more about SafeWaik or get 
involved, please contact Kevin Bronke 
at 422-1439 (kb3e), Dave Wolpert at 
621-7145 (dw38), or Natalie Gesmond at 
x4935 (ngOn).
We would like to thank the campus 
community, the administration, Cam
pus Security, and Student Senate for 
their support and admirable level of 
cooperation.
David Wolpert 
Junior, Applied History
Kevin R. Bronke
Junior, Mechanical Engineering
SafeWaik provides a much 
needed service
Editor:
Kudos to Natalie 
Gesmond, David Wolpert, and Kevin Letter tO 
Bronke on their Safeil FHi+nr 
Walk program. I wish Ifie tcmor 
them the best of luck in properly orga
nizing what is an essential and overdue 
service. I also encourage all students 
that have been outraged by the recent 
attacks on campus to become an escort 
trainee. This program will only survive 
with the support of the student body.
Sam Jain
Graduate Student, ECE
CFA grateful for return of 
ceiling panel
Editor:
The CFA Deans Of
fice would like to thank 
the person who turned 
in our missing ceiling 
panel to Campus Se
curity last week. We appreciate this 
cooperation and are very happy to have 
the panel back in place on the CFA lobby 
ceiling.
We would also like to thank you for 
taking the initiative to write about the 
panels disappearance.
Patti Pavlus
CFA Business Manager
Student Union should not 
be allowed to die
Editor:
There lurked a dis
sonant tone in last 
weeks Editorial Note
book [Loss of Student 
Union would limit 
viewpoints, 2/15]. It popped out at me 
when I read that perhaps it would be 
best if [Blh PT,uhET ENsE] died grace
fully, rather than become a shoddy 
publication run by people who dont care.
I ask myself: Is an editor of The Tartan 
one to condemn Blh PT,uhET ENsE to 
death for shoddiness? There is plenty of 
inanity and inaccuracy to go around. 
Perhaps such sins by a newspaper of 
record are actually greater than those of 
a paper like Blh PT,uhET ENsE4 whose 
main affliction is a kind of literary manic 
depression.
Then I think to myself: It seems disin
genuous here to talk of graceful death. 
A death is a death; whether its by lethal 
injection or by hanging matters less than 
whether there has been a capital of
fense.
The aspersion, however obliquely cast, 
is that Blh PT,uhET ENsE is expend
able. But it isnt, being the only publica
tion on campus accessible to those who 
have something to say that will not fit 
elsewhere.
Were Blh PT,uhET ENsE to keel over, 
its office space, computers, and budget 
dispersed, resurrecting it later would 
require an improbable (though clearly 
not impossible) coincidence of talent, 
activism, and other circumstances. Bet
ter that it live on, to provide an easy 
opportunity for those who want to make 
it vigorous.
Erik Altmann 
Graduate Student, SCS
VfuNTsSAr EsThR .tNENsEr hCtShrrhu NE 
fuNTsSAr dsTh7ssm ySh Tlsrh sH Tlh 
NEuN1Nu,ysE-' yEu ySh EsT Tlh stNE9
NsEr sH Tlh fuNTsSNyosySu5z
Clintons plan deserves serious consideration
It has been only a few days since President Bill Clinton 
outlined his new economic plan, and even though the plan 
could make many vitally necessary changes in the govern
ment, many people have begun to criticize it prematurely. I 
realized when I voted for Clinton that he was a politician and 
would probably break some promises, but I believed, and still 
believe, that he would help the country more in the long run 
than any of the other candidates.
Clinton has made progress in his short time in office by 
passing the family leave bill and by proposing the motor-voter 
bill which has passed in the House of Representatives. Both 
of these are steps in the right direction for the country by 
making the workplace more comfortable for employees, and 
by ensuring that all Americans are registered and able to vote 
if they have a drivers license.
These accomplishments alone earn the President the right
to be heard. Clintons willingness to stick his neck out and 
propose an obviously controversial plan shows that he does 
really care about the country. His plan deserves serious 
consideration for these reasons, but more for the fact that 
many of his proposals make sense.
It may seem that his plan, because of its revolutionary 
changes, would be difficult to pass, and maybe that has some 
truth to it. Since when have the best and most important 
changes in American history been simple? It seems to me that 
anything that is as important as decreasing the deficit before 
we become an economically ruined country is going to require 
a real fight against people who only pay attention to their 
short term personal interests rather than those of the entire 
country. In order for Clinton to succeed in reducing the 
deficit, the American people must stop worrying only about 
what will affect them as individuals and instead see how his 
plan will benefit the country.
The aspects of Clintons plan that deal with taxation are 
logical in my opinion although obviously no taxation is fun for 
the group being taxed. If the government must take money 
from someone, it seems that it is morally correct to take it 
from those who can afford to lose it. For example, if the upper 
middle class is taxed, it might affect their luxuries, but they
Please see PLAN, pae 
Widespread vandalism lowers quality of life
w Oiiayyaw y. yga QCny.w
Letter to 
the Editor
^ ayyaw y. yga QCny.w
Letter to 
the Editor
- O!
Letter to iKo Editor
Letter to 
the Editor
iayyaw y. yga QCny.w gaWwy.W
Letter to 
the Editor

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  22 February 19937
Improve government before raising taxes
R.D. Quinn
The American public is again 
being asked to pay up for 
Washingtons mistakes. Presi
dent Bill Clinton is calling on all 
Americans to give a little more to 
their country under the guise of 
patriotism. The future of the coun
try would seem in eminent peril, 
and we are called to pull out our 
checkbooks to win the war.
Sadly, it appears Clinton is 
gaining public support for his plan 
without enough questioning of 
its implications. Clinton is clearly 
energetic in his desire to improve 
the country. Enthusiasm, how
ever, does not guarantee success, 
especially when it comes to the 
federal government.
There is no doubt that the defi
cit must be reduced, but what 
Clinton suggested this past week 
is asking us to trust the same 
group of people who have proved 
themselves wholly incompetent. 
I am of course referring to the 
Congress of the United States. I 
have little doubt they can suc
cessfully create more taxes but 
have no reason to believe that 
they can cut government spend
ing.
The problem with Clintons 
plan lies in its basic philosophy. 
Clintons plan calls for more taxes 
and new government programs 
with spending cuts only occuring 
in later years. Instead, we need
to cut spending immediately and 
make government much more 
efficient. The waste in Washing
ton is notorious and must be dealt 
with at every level before govern
ment can ever be cost effective. 
The Grace Report, for example, 
has found over a thousand places 
where waste in the federal gov
ernment can be eliminated, yet 
nothing has been done to deal 
with the problem.
I have heard reaction to 
Clintons plan which suggests 
that because there was no spe
cific plan in the last several years, 
we might as well give this a try. 
This is intellectual laziness. We 
do not just need a planwe need 
the right plan. One that is not 
only solid in intent but also solid 
in its ability to come through for 
the American public.
Clinton called for more spend
ing for investment and summer 
jobs for the inner city, job retrain
ing, guaranteed health care, na
tional service loans, education 
beyond high school, and a hun
dred thousand more police. I do 
not question Clintons good in
tentions, but new programs can 
only be developed over time as 
the economy becomes much stron
ger. When the economy does im
prove and spending on wasteful 
programs ends, then imple
mentation of new programs could 
be considered.
Regardless of the ability to find 
the funding for Clintons new pro
grams, there are still serious prob
lems with the very nature of the 
programs. Spending money on
training beyond high school for 
example would be spending more 
money on education than is nec
essary. There should be changes 
in high school education, giving 
those who will not be going on to 
college the necessary training and 
skills for the work place during 
high school, not after.
The idea of national service 
loans requires that there be 
enough public service positions 
for all participants. These posiimplemented, there needs to be 
real improvement in Washing
ton. That includes the comple
tion of at least one fiscal year 
with an appreciable reduction in 
the deficit.
Without a doubt, campaign and 
lobby reform bills must be passed 
by Congress. It was almost hu
morous to hear Congress applaud 
when Clinton mentioned cam
paign reform and lobbying re
form. These issues have been
Clinton is clearly energetic in his 
desire to improve the country. 
Enthusiasm, however, does not guar
antee success, especially when it 
comes to the federal government.
tions would have to pay a living 
expense while the borrower works 
off the debt. Overhauling the cur
rent loan system might be a bet
ter solution. Restricting loans to 
legitimate educational institu
tions and being more rigorous in 
the collection of loans could prove 
to be just as effective in giving 
people access to higher education.
Beyond criticism of the ideas 
and philosophy of Clintons plan 
is the reality that something must 
be done to get government and 
the economy back under control. 
I want to see an implementation 
of a plan that protects the inter
ests and the financial resources 
of most Americans.
Before a single tax increase is
brought up before, and Congress 
has done very little. If Congress 
accomplishes somethingtangible, 
only then would I be willing to 
listen to a program of reasonable 
tax increases.
What is a reasonable tax in
crease? One that doesnt soak the 
rich. Clinton, of course, lied dur
ing the campaign about taxing 
only those making above 
$200,000  now its $100,000. 
There may be only a relatively 
small number of people making a 
hundred thousand a year, but 
they are hardly rich. This is the 
upper middle class  the people 
who have worked hard all their 
lives and have succeeded. For the 
most part they contribute signifi
cantly to society and take very 
little. Many are two income fami
lies where each individual only 
makes $50,000 a year. The pro
posed tax increase on these people 
is nothing more than punishment 
for success. People making 
around $100,000 already pay a 
higher percentage of taxes. To 
suggest they owe the country 
more is outrageous.
Those in the middle class who 
think they can afford the few 
hundred dollars currently being 
talked about are kidding them
selves into believing they wont 
pay more in the future. There has 
been talk of a national sales tax 
that would affect everyone. There 
has also been the suggestion of 
taxing the benefits received from 
employers. That wouldmean pay
ing taxes on health care benefits 
 in other words, paying taxes 
on income you never actually re
ceived. Clinton could keep his 
promise of not raising rates on 
the middle class but could in
crease taxable income or start 
eliminating tax deductions.
I hope the American public asks 
tough questions. We all want to 
see an improved economy and a 
more efficient government, but 
we need to demand of Washing
ton that we see results first, be
fore we give them our hard-earned 
money. Paying higher taxes now 
will only be a reward for the de
cades of government mismanage
ment.
5L5 K,NEE Nr y rhENsS gN1NhE9
pNEhhSNEp UysS5Poor should pay respect to financially privileged
Abby Schiff
I am surprised to report that the Ameri
can attitude towards impossibly rich 
people  you know, the ones who can buy 
islands and factories and big houses in 
Kennebunkport  is changing. Bill 
Clintons Wednesday night speech con
vinced millions of recession-battered 
Americans that while going to charity 
balls wearing red AIDS lapel ribbons is a 
Shy--' ENgh phrT,Sh4 some kind of larger 
sacrifice is in order.
But dont lets forget, in our tax-the-rich 
frenzy, the unfortunate lesson of Leona 
Helmsley. Helmsley was the monstrously 
wealthy wife of real-estate mogul Harry 
Helmsley, and she had earned the title 
The Queen of Mean in New York City 
tabloids by the time she was hauled off to 
jail for tax evasion.
j; (An interesting aside to this story is the 
moral quandary created when people be
gan thinking about who they should side 
with, Helmsley or the Internal Revenue
Service.)
The point Im trying to make here is 
that rich people are just like you and me 
in that they secretly enjoy following the 
scandals of the British royal family and 
they hate paying taxes.
This is precisely why I say wsu 7-hrr 
O(sEy4 an American patriot who was willmg to stand up for her principles even 
though it meant prison and permanent
status as a bad monologue joke on Blh 
BsENplT PlsI5 In fact, I think Helmsleys 
famous statement, Only the little people 
pay taxes, should go down in history 
right next to I regret that I have but one 
life to give for my country.
Fellow taxpayers, its high time we stop 
soakingthe rich. Just because these people 
happen to have bank accounts worth more 
than you will make in 10 lifetimes doesnt 
mean that theyre bottomless revenue pits. 
In fact, the President should take into 
account the myriad of problems facing 
rich  oops, HNEyEgNy--' tSN1N-hphu  
Americans before he starts taxing them
And dont forget that the luxury tax on 
yachts hits families like the Helmsleys 
hardest.
As though this plunder of the rich werent 
trial enough, now we have a President 
whos actually paying attention to those 
freeloading masses of middle-income 
Americans, that bunch of simpering 
bellyachers who are constantly insisting 
that theyve already paid enough in taxes 
to supply most of the third world with 
weapons of mass destruction.
What Clinton doesnt realize is that poor 
and middle-class Americans already phT 
gobs of tax breaks and special privileges.
The President should take into account the 
myriad of problems facing rich  oops, finan
cially privileged  Americans before he starts 
taxing them left and right.
left and right.
I bet when Clinton throws around the 
term rygSNHNgh in order to gain support for 
his new taxes, he thinks hes an authority 
because he was poor in his youth. This 
may vindicate him among the bleedingheart Save the Whales crowd, but it doesnt 
wash with me. I say he doesnt know the 
meaning of the word sacrifice until hes 
walked a mile in Helmsleys shoes.
For Helmsley and all financially privi
leged Americans, life is a never-ending 
trial of hardship and adversity. All you 
working-class stiffs who think you have it 
tough should remember that lots of im
portant tax shelters were lost during the 
80s, forcing rich people to find new ones.
These freeloaders can deduct expenses 
incurred while looking for a job, which can 
take months or even 'hySr these days. 
Think of the thousands of dollars in rev
enue lost on this government handout 
when there are plenty of part-time jobs 
available mopping floors at Burger King.
The poor and middle class dont appre
ciate yE'TlNEp the government gives them. 
Take public schools. Every day its more 
whining, more complaints, more My son 
got shot! My daughter cant read! My 
childs teacher is a recent parolee! Oh, 
please. Ever think of paying actual UsEh' 
for your kids education, like rich folks 
have been doing for generations? Im sure 
letting the gardener go so that little Harry
Jr. could go to Exeter wasnt easy for the 
Helmsleys, especially considering how 
hard it is to find good holp these days.
I find it appalling that the financially 
troubled masses arent satisfied by all 
these special perks and privileges paid for 
with ill-gotten taxes off of wealthy peoples 
hard-earned trust funds. Youd think all 
the free cheese the government hands on 
a silver platter to lower-income folk would 
have made them happy by now, but just 
you try making ketchup count as a veg
etable in those ridiculous school lunch 
programs and youll see how grateful they 
are. Ditto for the free vaccinations: o,T 
Ih IyET yHHsSuy7-h lhy-Tl gyShS they howl. 
Theres gratitude for you. I suppose im
munity from the terrible ravages of 
measles just isnt enough for some people.
If Clinton and his new-age Democrat 
buddies were to do a reality check, they 
might realize that financially privileged 
Americans are just everyday folks who 
happen to have a few spare Lexuses sit
ting around in the garage. Their bills 
must be paid. Their roof needs repairing. 
Their broker is under indictment.Must 
they now pay UsSh UsEh' to a government 
that wastes valuable funds on student 
loans and all that get-ahead hooey? This, 
after all, is how a commoner like Clinton 
was able to get into Yale in the first place, 
and now we have a middle-class 
rabblerouser in the White House. Lets 
leave the money with the financially privi
leged where it rightfully belongs.
As for Helmsley, I say we canonize her.
a77' PglNHH Nr y rstlsUsSh NE )qPP 
Ils 7Shymr s,T NE lN1hr h1hS' TNUh rlh 
-ssmr yT lhS ty'glhgm rT,75
A PERSONS
OPINION
2
MShrNuhET hlSy7NyE Sh9
ghET-' yEEs,Eghu y T,NTNsE 
NEgShyrh sH rNC thSghET5 )y-H 
H Tlh UsEh' Nr r-yThu HsS 
HNEyEgNyyNu5 What do you 
TlNEm of the tuition in
gShyrh:
Elizabeth Stoltenberg Charles Lauture Melissa Sarko Stephan Mueller
Freshman Sophomore Freshman Junior
Architecture Industrial Management Architecture Chemical Engineering
I dont think its good, be
cause were not going to be get
ting anything out of it. As it is, 
were paying a lot and were not 
getting much.
I think that its already too 
high and an increase is ridicu
lous. The price of education in 
this country is way too high.
I guess I can support it. Its 
necessary to have financial aid 
when tuition is so high here.
I get a lot of financial aid, so 
if its going to help financial aid 
out then Im all for it. I guess 
theyre raisingit at every school.
THETARTAN
Cnmoglo Motion's Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-In-Chief........Brendan MFeoly
Managing Editor .Samuel Greonflold 
Business Mgr.............Mlchaol Harris
News Editor..Kondrlck Korwln Chun
Forum Editor..............Christian Rostlfo
Sports Ed. ..Lubomlr W. KochanskyJ 
Act. Features Coeds. ..Lauren Heinz 
Andrew Sproule
Diversions Editor..............Tina L. Urso
Calendar Editor.............Laura M'Clure
Magazine Editors.............Mami Borek
Barbara Reyes 
Dossier Literary Ed. Michael Gabriel
Dossier Design Ed......Glen Hoffman
Art Editor......................Ramsey Hong
Photo Editor.....................Jennifer Urso
Production Mgr...............Katie Swango
Personnel Mgr...................Keegan Folk
Copy Manager..........Jennifer Forbes
Systems Mgr.............Chad M'Daniel
Asst. News Ed.................Frank Michels
Asst. Forum Ed................Abby Schiff
Asst. Sports Ed.................Eric Strauss
Asst Features Editor.... Andrew Sproule
Asst. Art Editor..................Edward Pak
Asst. Production Mgr............Derek Wahila
Darkroom Manager..........Nathan Houser
Contributing Editors 
Susan Abrams, Timothy Blass, Megan 
Dietz, Daniel Frey, D.A. Henderson, 
Ellon Hendrickson, Mark Hillier, Heldl 
Hoover, Aaron Jenkins, Doxter 
Kobayashl, R.D. Quinn, M.K. Rodgors, 
Cosar Sanchoz, Ignatius Snsmlta, 
Tara M. Soman
Senior Staff 
Bob Dixon, Mlko Shapiro
Staffwrltors 
Matt Adlor, Nlcolo Alien, Joff Baslsta, 
Krlston Bovorldgo, Trlnotto Chandler, 
Bobbio Dofflomoyor, Andl Franclonl, 
Dan Gallaghor, Graham Glbby, Andy 
Glondinnlng, Lauron Holnz, David 
Hunt, Jason Irwin, Mlko Koatlng, Both 
Macdonald, Doclan MCullngh, Truptl 
Patol, Laura Palankor, Paul Platosh, 
Kelly Sterling, Stoph Stlno, Jonnifor 
Turner, Jason Togyor, Gary Wilson 
Art
Andre Khromov
Comics
Matt Goldberg, Elliot C. Evans, Paolo 
Malabuyo, Jenifer Mul6, Elliott Schiff, 
Jon Slenk, Jen Thorson
Photo
Kevin Chen, Kerry Hagan, Rold Hecker
Darkroom 
Mac Mirchandani, Gary Wilson
Production 
Susan Abdalla, Tony deFigio, Shiv 
Dewan, Becky Elroy, Michael Gibson, 
Otis Greene, Alexandra Hector, 
Brockett Horne, Janice M'Clure
Copy
Roshni Bhakta, Nathan Dohm, 
Madhav Ghanta, Karen Grunberg, 
Yerin Kay, Lenna Kydes, Anne Lopez, 
Catherine Marquis, Tonya Rado, Ed 
Slavlshak, Jon Stevenson
Business 
Rose Mills, Olivia Raharja
Junior Staff 
Darren Chlappetta, Ming Chng, Alexis 
DePlanque, Jessica Fang, Rob Glaser, 
Brian Goldberg, Chris Graefe, 
Marybeth Griffin, Jason Helnleln, 
Philip Joyce, Ellen Lalumere, Bryan 
Lasley, Monica Leeke, Ylng Liang, 
Rich Lubell, J. Ralne Pickett, Mark 
Pizzurro, Astrld Rapp, Melissa 
Reaves, AJ. Robinson, Syd Rodriguez, 
Naris Slamwalla, Amy Sims, Brian D. 
imlth, Jason A. Specland, Jason 
Streltfleld, Annie Wang, Eric Witte
Tho Tartan Is Uio studont nowspapor of Carnoglo 
Mellon University. It Is a wookly newspaper pub
lished by students during tho fall and spring semestors, at no co3t to members of tho University 
community. It Is printed by Western Pennsylvania 
Printing. Inc. Subscriptions are available for tho 
semester or academic year. Tho odltorlal# appear
ing at tlie beginning of tho opinion section aro tho 
official opinion of Tho Tartan editorial board. Col
umn# and political cartoon# aro tho opinions of 
Individual creators. Tho Tartan reserves tho right to 
reject orcondenso ony column or political cartoon. 
Letters to tho Editor aro opinions of authors who 
are usually, but not necessarily, members of tho 
Unlvorslty community. A letter Intonded for publica
tion must be signed and Include tho writer's oddross 
and phono number for verification. Names will bo 
withheld upon request. Tho Tartan roquostB that 
letters be no longer than 350 words. Tho Tartan 
resorvos tho right to condense or reject ony lottor. 
Copyright <01993 by Tho Tartan. Tho Tartan odltorial board resoles tho right to withhold from publi
cation any copy It dooms unfit for publication. 
Office: Sklbo 50 (412> 268-2111 
Moiling oddross: Tho Tortan/fiox 17/Carneglo 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
Funded In port by your Activities Fco.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN ft: 0890-3107,

---------------------------------------------------

8
TThe Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  22 February 1993
Loss of stereotypes will hasten peace process
_________Jason A. Specland
My life was so much simpler 
when I had the privilege of hav
ing my political thought Bpoon 
fed to me by an eager family and 
community. Theres a lot of de
bate going on about Arab-Israeli 
peace talks nowadays. If you 
would have asked the me of not 
too long ago about what I thought, 
you would have gotten a stan
dard answer. Israel should not 
compromise the occupied territo
ries. Israel mustnt bow down to 
the Arab terrorists.
I come from a large Jewish fam
ily from New York. Most of my 
family are Democrats, most of us 
are middle class, and every one of 
us is in unanimous support of
Israel. The JewB fought hard for 
their homeland, and they should 
keep it, we would say. Why cant 
the Arabs go to any one of the 
Arab nations that surround Is
rael? How can we have a Jewish 
state if Palestinians are allowed 
in the government?
Little by little, though, my fam
ily stopped the spoon feeding, and 
I became more and more politi
cally independent. I still sup
ported Israel, but I began to ques
tion its actions in some cases. 
The problem, though, was still 
very distant from me. I never had 
to ponder the fundamental ques
tion of a Palestinian homeland or 
if Israel should give up the West 
Bank or the Gaza Strip.
Recently, though, my views 
have altered. Perhaps some of it 
has to do with Carnegie Mellon 
University. There are Arabs in 
my dorm, many of whom I
wouldnt have even considered 
fraternizing with a fewyears ago. 
Saudis, Kuwaitis, Jordanians  
all of them I have met for the first 
time here at CMU. A more impor
tant reason, though, is the de
plorable actions taken by the Is
raeli govemmentin recent weeks.
groups. When the deportation 
was blocked by Lebanon, the Is
raeli Supreme Court denied the 
deportees appeal. Israel allowed 
no food, water, or medical sup
plies to reach the camp, despite 
United Nations protests. Ten of 
the deportees, though, as was adWith stereotypical glasses removed,
I can at least try to see the situation 
from the opposite side and perhaps 
question the motives of Israel itself.
Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak 
Rabin, in an attempt to eliminate 
the more militant liberation fac
tions, attempted to deport 415 
Palestinians whose only crime 
was the association with Hammas 
and the Islamic Jihad, both ex
tremist Palestinian liberation
mittedby the Israeli government, 
are actually innocent.
Deaths among Palestinians in 
the occupied territories are up 
drastically from this time last 
year. The majority of the dead 
are teenagers. You see the pic
tures on the news all the time.
Angry Palestinian youth throw
ing rocks and bottles. Israeli sol
diers shooting. Sometimes the 
bullets are rubber. Many times, 
though, theyre all too real.
These actions cause me'to ques
tion. My focus has changed, from 
I wish those Palestinians would 
stop throwing rocks and bottles 
and leave us alone to Why are 
they throwing rocks, anyway? 
Why are they so dissatisfied? 
The answer lies somewhere in 
the structure of Israeli society 
and the government that, in their 
perspective, oppresses them so. 
With stereotypical glasses re
moved, I can at least try to see the 
situation from the opposite side 
and perhaps question the mo
tives of Israel itself.
Jews and Gentiles alike should 
speak out against human rights 
violations, be they perpetrated 
by Haiti, Iraq, or Israel. We should
not let our stereotypes get in the 
way of justice. Crimes committed 
by people of our own group are no 
more excusable than any other 
How can the Jews, who have been 
persecuted throughout the ages 
stand for the oppression of any 
group, much less be the sponsors 
of the oppression?
Secretary of State Warren 
Christopheris in the Middle East 
this week to try to continue the 
stalled peace talks. Once again 
the me of long ago would have 
admonished the belligerent Ar
abs for not budging in the peace 
talks. Today, unfortunately, I can 
see two immovable objects and 
not much of an irresistible force. 
In order to achieve peace, both 
sides will have to do what is hard
est  compromise.
FyrsE a5 Pthg-yEu Nr y HShrl9
UyE )qPP rT,uhET5
Proposals should be given a chance
PLAN, from page 6
are not likely to lose their homes because they 
cant make their mortgage payments. However, 
if you tax the lower class, whose income is al
ready very limited, they might not be able to 
make ends meet and thus lose their homes.
The energy tax has met with opposition be
cause it affects everyone. However, ifseems that 
because the tax affects everyone mildly, it is 
more reasonable than a tax that would swamp a 
limited group of people with an unreasonable 
tax. The tax increases would not be enough to 
overwhelm anyone except the poor, and since 
they would receive energy tax credits, this risk is 
removed.
The plan would help small businesses in a 
number of ways, and since they are responsible 
for most jobs in the United States, they deserve 
special attention. Clinton proposes investment 
tax credits so that company income spent on 
expansion would be taxed at a lower rate than 
regular income. Also, a lower capital gains tax 
would be collected on income from investments 
in small business. Both proposals would make 
more money go to small businesses for expansion 
and investment, thus creating more jobs. The 
proposal to relax federal regulators restrictions 
on loans to small businesses will inspire entre
preneurs to start businesses and, in the process, 
create even more jobs.
Of all the programs proposed, we should defi
nitely spend money on improving our transpor
tation systems. A job investment of $30 billion 
would provide summer jobs for at least 700,000 
people while creating new transportation sys
tems and renovating existing ones. We 
desparately need new mass transit systems and 
high speed railway systems if we are to keep up 
with other countries fuel efficiencies and remain 
competitive.
We need to make tough decisions if we are to 
save our country in the long run from economic 
failure.We gave the Republicans 12 years to 
show us what they could do, and instead of our 
situation improving, the deficit and the national 
debt grew at phenomenal rates, taxes increased 
anyway, and unemployment grew. Since the 
Republicans fell so incredibly short of success, I 
am willing to give Clintons new administration 
my support and the opportunity to put its policies 
into effect. In short, I am not going to jump down 
Clintons throat at his first mistake. Instead, I 
will give him the four years that he deserves to 
show how his policies can work in the long run.
FyrsE )hNE-hNE Nr y rstlsUsSh NE )qPP5
Housing must change microwave policy
The Editors Notebook
fuNTsS[r dsTh7ssm Nr y HhyT,Sh 
IlNgl pN1hr UhU7hSr sH Blh 
BySTyE[r fuNTsSNyosySu Tlh st9
tsST,ENT' Ts hCtShrr TlhNS NEuN9
1Nu,ystNENsEr5 fuNTsS[r dsTh9
7ssm tShrhETr Tlh stNENsEr sH Tlh 
NEuN1Nu,yy,TlsS only, EsT Ehg9
hrrySN-' Tlh stNENsEr sH Blh ByS9
TyE sS sH Tlh fuNTsSNyosySu
A student has the right to ex
pect that academic and profes
sional processes should be flex
ible and periodically open to re
view....  The Student Hand
book, 1992-93.
In the spirit of this statement, 
I wish the University to review 
its microwave policy. As the policy 
stands, all student dormitory 
rooms/suites are forbidden to 
have microwaves. In my opinion, 
it is in the best interests of the
University and the student body 
to adopt a new policy allowing 
the use of microwaves.
There are several reasons why 
I feel that it is time for a change;
1. One of the reasons I chose 
CMU was that it was willing to 
give a great deal of responsibility 
to its students. When I have to 
confront policies, such as the mi
crowave policy, it makes me think 
that my impression of the Uni
versity was wrong. Students al
ready must take responsibility 
for their rooms, so why does the 
Housing Office need to restrict us 
in this manner?
2. Safety concerns have often 
been at the center of the debate. 
Penn State decided to furnish mi
crowaves in its rooms to meet 
growing demand. I do not advo
cate this type of policy, but I would 
suggest a simple registration pro
cess. This would entail having 
students register their micro
waves with the Housing Office. 
Microwaves could be mandated 
to conform to certain guidelines.
By having the registration pro
cess, the Housing Office can pre- 
vent fire hazards and excessively 
dangerous machines.
3. Another concern has been 
the excessive drain of power by 
microwaves. The Housing Office 
must comply with city, state, and 
national standards when wiring 
the University. If a microwave is 
such a drain of power, then why 
can any other apartment build
ing stand the demands of the fire 
codes? True, microwaves do draw ! 
a good deal of power, but refrig
erators draw much more power 
during a single day.
When CMU ranks near last in 
student satisfaction year after 
year, it is no wonder that such a 
policy is in place. I want to take 
the administration up on the of
fer to change the policy and have 
more satisfied students on cam
pus. I feel certain that with some 
gentle prodding the Housing Of
fice can be encouraged to lift the 
ban on microwaves.
 BNUsTl' P5 o-yrr
Mail Boxes Etc.
UPS Authorized Shipping Outlet
PACKING & SHIPPING SPECIALISTS
UPS Dally 
Business Cards 
Parcel Receiving 
* Private Mall Box Rentals 
Photocopying
We Pack and Ship Computers
1 DHL Next Day Shipping 
1 Key Duplicating 
1 l-lolary
 PAX Service 412-687-6136 
' Instant Passport Photos 
' Pick-Up Service
414 Craig St. C7-C100
(Conveniently located near Forbes Avenue and Carnegie Museum)
UPSFAXtorusSTAMPSPACKING
SUPPLII
SHORT TERM LEASES 
ELEGANTLY FURNISHED STUDIO 
1 OR 2 BEDROOM 
APARTMENT SUITES
A few steps from Fashiomihle Walnut Street shops and 
restaurants. From $47 per day (on a monthly basis). 
Beautifully Acccssorized-Everythlnn Included!
5*405 Firth Avenue, Plttslniruli, PA 15232 Toll Free M)0-7<i7-84H3
CAMPUS CUSTOMER COUPON
SI0.00 off your next stay 
nl Shadyside Inn
r
LJ
You probably know us as 
the nation's second 
largest long distance 
communications company. 
Now, take the opportunity 
to get to know us better as 
a company that offers out
standing career opportu
nities to creative, pro
active thinkers who 
can...AND WANT to 
make things happen.
Our company was found
ed on the spirit of change 
and innovation. And, it 
thrives today on the col
lective spirit of our peo
ple. Talented individuals 
who are willing to go 
that extra mile, take 
chances and stand out 
from the rest.
If you possess this spirit, 
complimented by an 
excellent academic and 
extracurricular record, 
please take the time to get 
to know us better at our 
Career Recruiting Day.
INTERVIEW DATE:
ORIENTATION*:
February 23rd 
7-8:30PM 
Faculty Dining Room
If unable to attend, please 
send resume to: Human 
Resources, College 
Relations Dept. 0309/001, 
MCI Communications, 
1801 Pennsylvania Ave, NW, 
Washington, DC 20006. 
Equal opportunity 
employer m/f/d/v.
Career Areas To Be Discussed:
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING 
COMPUTER SCIENCE
MCI
Orientation is reserved only for those 
applicants registered for interview times.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Final week is big for Tartan basketball
Connors Academic All-American, Jenkins, Benec finish at Carnegie Mellon
7' My,- M-yTsrl
Are they 
weight lifters 
or monsters?
A long, long time ago, there 
was a man who was so strong 
that he could lift giant boulders 
the size of a Volkswagen over 
his head. Others always 
watched him lift his boulders in 
awe. The strong man decided 
that he could create a sport out 
of lifting boulders over his 
head. Voil, the sport of weight 
lifting was born! Anyone who 
didnt like it kept their mouths 
shut because the strong man 
had a short temper.
Well, the sport has seen a lot 
of changes since then, but the 
concept remains the same. Put 
on a ballerinas leotard, get as 
much weight as you can and lift 
it over your head. Simple, 
right? But I am always re
minded of a quote given to me 
by the Dali Lama himself, Any 
sport that doesnt get you from 
point A to point B is vanity. 
Maybe so.
The fact remains that weight 
lifting continues to grow as a 
world-wide sport. I was watch
ing television late one night, 
and I happened to catch the 
end of a rebroadcast of some of 
the more memorable lifts in 
weight liftings illustrious 
history. Its always impressive 
to see a human being lift that 
much weight in steel over his 
head. I always feel a little 
sense of awe when I see the bar 
bend like a toothpick.
Weight lifters themselves are 
just as fantastic as the sport in 
which they compete. I would 
not like to meet Russian power 
lifter Andre Zeledulkin in an 
alley late at night. He bears a 
remarkable resemblance to 
what Seseme Streets Oscar the 
Grouch might look like on 
steroids. And speaking of 
steroids, no one can tell me 
that these athletes have never 
touched the stuff. You just cant 
get that big without using some 
kind of steroid. Sure, they 
might not be using them at the 
time of competition, but at 
some point in a weight-lifters 
career, steroids are as impor
tant as the weights themselves.
I guess theres something 
alluring about the massive 
display of human power. Its 
not just a male thing, either. 
Some of those East German 
female lifters are pretty 
fierce. Actually, women have 
made substantial progress in 
the sport, breaking records in 
leaps and bounds while the 
mens world record has in
creased marginally. Many of 
these women are married, 
which strikes me as a little 
bizarre. I wonder what kind of 
endearing names their hus
bands call them... Bulldog? 
Crusher?
Anyway, whenever I see a 
Power lifting competition, I 
always think of the Saturday 
Mght Live All Drug Olympics 
where the lifter tears off his 
arms attempting to complete a lift.
It seems as if something like
at Is not too far off in the 
future of the sport, as the 
weights keep getting heavier, 
ar'^ the lifters keep getting 
re monstrous.
! have to skip town for a few
ys, as these lifters will 
Undoubtedly find out where I
Ve beat me into little; Pieces.
; Platosh is a sophomore 
Professional and creative writing 
najor.
By GARY WILSON
BySTyE PTyHHISNThS
Senior co-captains Todd 
Jenkins and Chris Benec put in 
their final performances at Skibo 
gymnasium last Wednesday 
night as they helped lead the 
Tartans over Denison Univer
sity 61-43. In the Tartansnext 
game, they were pummelled by 
New York University, 8365.
Before Wednesdays game 
started, ceremonies were held to 
honor Jenkins andBenec. Itwas 
really nice to go out with a vic
tory, said Jenkins. It really 
doesnt feel like it was our last 
home game. Im not really think
ing about it much.
Coach Tony Wingen com
mented on the value of having 
the two on the team. Those two 
guys gave us as much leadership
Reld Hecker/Tartan Photographer 
Senior co-captaln Chris Benec goes up strong for two of hls polnts.
Rob Glaser/Tartan Photographer 
Senior co-captaln Todd Jenkins is off and running on the fast break.
as I could hope they could give us. 
They were rushed into the job as 
juniors, and they grew into the 
job nicely. They lead by example 
and by verbally leadingthe team. 
Im very proud of them.
With Tartan leading scorer, 
junior Charlie Connors, out with 
the flu, the Tartan bench stepped 
up and played perhaps the best 
defensive game of the season, 
holding Denison to 34 percent 
shooting from the floor and only 
43 points. I felt like we had a 
pretty good defensive game going 
in. The guys carried out the plan 
very well. We executed our of
fense, and defensively, it was as 
good as weve played all year, 
said Wingen.
Denison University jumped out 
to an early, yet momentary lead, 
going ahead 84. However, it 
didnt take long for the Tartans to 
get fired up. Five minutes into 
the first half, sophomore Mike 
Hosni made a bold run to the 
hoop to score and draw the foul, 
putting the Tartans ahead on the 
scoreboard. From that point on, 
it was simply a matter of how 
many points they would win by.
A few minutes later, the fresh
men players of CMU assured ev
eryone that this program is des
tined to be strong for years to 
come. Freshman Kevin Byrne hit 
two free-throws before another 
freshman, Kenny Pugh, left the 
Denison team begging for mercy. 
Pugh stole the ball at center and 
proceeded to spin and weave his 
way in for a basket, putting the 
Tartans up 20-12. Fellow fresh
man Eric Ronzio then came into 
the game and made his presence 
under the hoop. In only 11 min
utes of play, he pulled down four 
rebounds and drew three fouls. 
Byrne also collected four re
bounds.
Junior forward Matt Reiprish 
closed out the scoring for the half 
at 32-23 with a three-point bas
ket.
The Tartans came out smoking 
in the second half. During the 
first 12 minutes, seven different 
players contributed to an incred
ible 21-7 run, as they built up a 
5330 lead.
At the 2:12 mark, Jenkins left
ttuiu nucnur/ luruin rnoiograpner
Academic All-American Junior Charlie Connors skies for the slamdunk.
the floor and got a standing ovaface first place New York Univertion from the pumped up fans. 
Twenty seconds later, Benec re
ceived the same warm farewell 
as he played his final shift at 
home.
The 18-point victory was quite 
a game to remember for the two 
graduating seniors. I felt it went 
well. We needed a big game. We 
really needed a big solid perfor
mance to send offTodd and Chris, 
and we got it, said Pugh.
As the team prepared to em
bark on their final road trip to
sity, Pugh gave his outlook. Im 
going to expect a hostile team. 
Theyre going to be out to destroy 
us. But theyre nothing excep
tional. I know we can beat them. 
New York University did come 
out storming, but not until the 
second half. CMU got the better 
of the play for almost the entire 
first half. Connors, who was 
named an Academic All-Ameri
can earlier in the week, opened 
the scoring with a powerful tip in 
Please see MEN, page 11Women hoops lose pair of close matchups
Megahan goes over 1000 points for career at Carnegie Mellon U.
Rob Glaser/Tartan Photographer
Senior captain Kelly Sterling runs the Tartan offense at the point against Allegheny College.
By LUBOMIR W. KOCHANSKYJ
BySTyE PtsSTr fuNTsS 
& GARY WILSON
BySTyE PTyHHISNThS
The Tartans lost two extremely close 
contests this past week. On Wednesday, 
the team lost in overtime to Allegheny 
College 59-56 despite the individual 
heroics of junior forward Jeanine 
Megahan. Megahan scored 25 points, 
pulled down nine rebounds, and dished 
out six assists on the evening. Megahan 
then tallied 17 points on Friday in a 60- 
55 loss to New York University.
She became the fourth player in the 
schools womens basketball program to 
score over 1000 points during her ca
reer.
The game was stopped with just over 
four minutes to go in regulation so 
Megahan could be recognized by her 
coach, teammates, and fans in atten
dance for her accomplishment.
This was a game the Tartans should 
have won. At the half they were only 
down by three 31-28, thanks in great 
part to sophomore center Meredith 
McKnight who scored 11 points and 
pulled down five rebounds.
McKnight never returned for the sec
ond half as Bhe was stricken with a 
sprained ankle. Her absense proved fa
tal to the team during the second half. 
The Tartans were able to go ahead, and 
maintain the lead, but the Gators bit 
their way back into the game.
Without McKnights imposing frame 
in the paint, Allegheny was able to get 
second shots and send the game into 
overtime.
The loss of junior guard Jenny Gretz 
to an ankle sprain eliminated the long 
range threat of the Tartans and allowed 
the Gators to pack it in under the hoop.
The team then traveled on Friday to 
New York to battle the Violets of NYU. 
Despite battling back late in the game, 
the team fell 60-55.
The Violets got off to a quick start with 
two big offensive spurts. Over the first 
eight minutes, they built up leads of 14 
4 and 20-8. The Tartans then began to 
fight back.
McKnight, who recovered from her 
ankle injury, Megahan, and junior for
ward Mary Moore began to connect, as 
CMU went on a 15-5 run. This three
some combined for 21 of the teams first 
26 points.
With five minutes remaining in the 
half, they had pulled within four points. 
Suddenly, the team began to turn over 
the ball with disturbing regularity.
The Violets cashedin with quick scores. 
At halftime, the Tartans found them
selves down 39-32.
The second half was played more con
sistently and defensively-minded by the 
Tartans.
Moore, McKnight, and Megahan con
tinued to shine as they combined for 19 
of the team's 23 second half points.
With 2:08 remainingin the game, Gretz 
scored to pull the team within a point.
The team had been down by four to 
seven points for most of the game. This 
would be the closest the Tartans would 
come, as the Violets defense held strong.
New York University and University 
Athletic Association leading scorer 
Please see WOMEN, page 10
)

---------------------------------------------------

10The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  22 February 1993
FEBRUARY 27, 11 AM 
FEBRUARY 28, 9:30 AM
MARCH 6, 8:30-1 
MARCH 13, 8:30-1 
MARCH 28, 8:30-1
APRIL 3-4
APRIL 17, 9:30 AM 
APRIL 18, 9:30 AM
MAY 1-2
MAY 29 
MAY 30
Fencing Schedule
CARNEGIE MELLON OPEN 
WPD TEAM QUALIFIERS, NORTHWAY MALL
U-19 SECTIONAL QUALIFIERS, NORTHWAY MALL 
SECTIONAL QUALIFIERS, NORTHWAY MALL 
DIVISION II QUALIFIERS, CHATHAM COLLEGE
BUFFALO "BROADSWORD TEAM OPEN,
UNIVERSITY OF BUFFALO
AT INDIANA UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA
WOMEN'S DAY, NORTHWAY MALL
MID-ATLANTIC SECTIONALS,
INDIANA UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA
JOE ODOM 3-WEAPON TEAM CLASSIC, NORTHWAY MALL
PITTSBURGH SABRE CLASSIC, NORTHWAY MALL
On Saturday, February 27 the Fencing club will host the Carnegie Mellon Open. The tournament will 
begin at 11 am and take place In the main gymnasium of Skibo. So far, the following colleges have 
committed to competing In the tourney; Allegheny College,Ball State University (IN), Indiana University 
of Pennslyvanla, Kent State University (OH), Lehigh University, Ohio State University, Penn State 
University, Trenton State College(NJ), and the University of Buffalo (NY). CMU is hoping for a total of 
32 teams totaling over 100 fencers. For more information contact Randy Bruno, president of the 
Fencing Club at 268-8672.
Megahan goes over 1,000 point mark
RobGlaser/Tartan Photographer 
Junior Jeanine Megahan goes up strong for rebound.
continued from page 9
Donna Hayne sunk two 
free throws with 14 sec
onds left to close out the 
scoring at 60-55.
Megahan lead the 
team with 17 points, fol
io wed by McKnight with 
13, Moore with 10, and 
Gretz with eight.
McKnight led the team 
with 11 rebounds. 
Megahans career point 
total now stands at 
1,019, which ties her 
with Amy Buxbaum for 
third on the all-time Tar
tan list.
The team shot an impressive 82 percent from
the line and were 44 p6r. 
cent from the floor.
They also out-re. 
bounded the Violets 4i 
35.
The loss places th( 
Tartans at 12-11 for the 
season.
The Tartans play tw# 
more games, on Wedues 
day at Thiel College ant 
on Saturday at Emor 
University.
University Athleti 
Association final stani 
ings and team statistii 
will appear in the Mar<
8 issue.
RugbySchedule
FEBRUARY 27AT JUNIATA COLLEGE
MARCH 6VS. UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH
APRIL 3BLOOD TOURNAMENT
APRIL 10VS. BOWLING GREEN UNIVERSITY
APRIL 17VS. WASHINGTON, PA
APRIL 24VS. FAIRMONT STATE
Mens Lacrosse Schedule
ALL HOME GAMES ARE AT GESLING STADIUM
March
Saturday 6,1 pmVS. WASHINGTON AND JEFFERSON
Sunday 7, 2 pmAT SLIPPERY ROCK
Saturday 13, 2 pmVS. ST. VINCENT'S
Sunday 14, 2 pmVS. FROSTBURG STATE
April
Thursday 1, 8 pmVS. GROVE CITY COLLEGE
Friday 2 - Sunday 4,PITTSBURGH LACROSSE SHOOTOUT
Thursday 8, 8 pmVS. UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH
Thursday 15, 8 pmVS. PITTSBURGH LACROSSE CLUB
Saturday 24 - Sunday 25AT ST. VINCENT'S INVITATIONAL
Friday 30, 8 pmVS. PITTSBURGH IACR0SSE CLUB
May
Saturday 1, 2:30 pmAT WEST VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY
Saturday 15, TBAALL-STAR GAME AT CMU
am MProv stcPm
Celebrate with Hiilel all week long
Bake Hamentaschen 6:30 pn -
March 2nd in the Hillel Dining Center - Dinner included!
Ttakesome JSoise as you Hear the Ttegahl
7:30 PM - March 6th - in the TV Room in the West Wing of the New Dorm at 
CMU - And don't forget to eat some Hamentaschen
M,SNU BTyENy rIeN lNT .IaaNgcHEfbb
 :00 PM - March 4th - A Purim Party in the Ballroom of the William Pitt Union
For Plore 'Information cati HiUel at 621-8875 
Htftet is located at 160 TSortfi Craig Street
B'nai B'rilh Hillel is the foundation of the Campus Jewish Community
Crew Schedule
Matt Jezyk/ Special to The Tartan
Sophomore Soren Roth works on a rowing machine while training for the crew season.
APRIL 3 
APRIL 17,18 
APRIL 24,25
MAY 1
MAY 5-8
JOHNS HOPKINS INVITATIONAL
PITTSBURGH SCRIMMAGE
GOVERNORS CUP REGATTA,
CHARLESTON, WV
MID-AMERICAN REGIONAL COLLEGE CHAMPIONSHIPS, 
COLUMBUS, OH
DAD VAIL
P It I N C I 1> 1. !: S of SOUND R K T I l< K M li N I I N V K S i I N G
UNFORTUNATELY THIS IS WHERE 
PEOPLE ARE PUTTING 
TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS.
E
very year, a lot of people make a 
huge mistake on their taxes. They 
dont take advantage of tax deferral and 
wind up sending Uncle Sam money they 
could be saving for retirement.
Fortunately, that's a mistake you can 
easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAs. 
SRAs not only ease your current taxbite, they offer a remarkably easy way 
to build retirement incomeespecially 
for the extras" that your regular pension 
and Social Security benefits may not 
cover. Because your contributions are 
made in before-tax dollars, you pay less 
taxes now. And since all earnings on 
your SRA are tax-deferred as well, the
money you dont send to Washington 
works even harder for you. Down the 
road, that can make a dramatic difference 
in your quality of life.
What else makes SRAs so special?
A range of allocation choicesfrom the 
guaranteed security of TIAA to the 
diversified investment accounts of 
CREFs variable annuityall backed 
by the nation's number one retirement 
system.
Why write off the chance for a more 
rewarding retirement? Call today and 
learn more about how TIAA-CREF 
SRAs can help you enjoy many 
happy returns.
ohEhHNT EsEA HSsU TyC uhHhSSy-5 by-- s,S Pa lsT-NEh W]003]83v664 hCT5 ]0W25
75 years of ensuring the future
for those who shape it!M ^3*
\o'^

---------------------------------------------------

i
The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  22 February 199311
IM NewsTartans are honored
PM.BP id PfaP.d
I gOWLING
I bsUUNrrNsEhSR 
f Buddy Feitt, x5371
Matches are rolled on the Forward Lanes on Forward Avenue in 
Squirrel Hill, 422-5844, on Saturday mornings. Please pay all fees 
and report team scores to the commissioner.
BACKGAMMON & BRIDGE
bsUUNrrNsEhSR
Buddy Feitt, x5371 
Please play all matches as scheduled and report your scores to your 
commissioner or the IM Office.
BASKETBALL
bsUUNrrNsEhSrR ,
Majors  Buddy Feitt, x5371 
Intermediates  Dave Ekem, x5354 
Minors  Jim Saxon, x5482 
Women Only  Patricia Williams, x5973 
Play all games as scheduled and please, do not request a schedule 
change. Check the IM bulletin board for team schedules and stand
ings.
FACULTY/GRAD VOLLEYBALL
bsUUNrrNsEhSR
Dave Warol
Games are played on Sunday nights in the main gym. Team 
schedules and standings will be faxed to all teams.
FLOOR HOCKEY
bsUUNrrNsEhSrR
Majors  Dave Ekem, x5354 
Minors  Jim Saxon, x5482 
Women Only  Patricia Williams, x5973 
Schedules and standings are out and can be picked up in the IM
Office. Contact the IM office for rescheduling information regarding 
last Sundays games, which were all postponed.
PINOCHLE
bsUUNrrNsEhSR
Buddy Feitt, x5371 
Applications can be picked up in the IM Office.
Mb.idw PM.BP
WATER BASKETBALL
bsUUNrrNsEhSrR
Mike Kappus, x5302 
Joanne Kievan, x5900 
The certified lifeguard at all matches will be Denise Fenwick. 
Entries were due last Thursday by 4:30 pm.
Check the IM bulletin board for practice and play schedules for all 
leagues.
CO-REC BADMINTON & TEAM BADMINTON
bsUUNrrNsEhSR
Patricia Williams, x5937 
Entries due on March 4.
3-ON-3 BASKETBALL, FOUL SHOOTING, & 3-POINT 
SHOOTOUT
bsUUNrrNsEhSR
Buddy Feitt, x5371 
Entries due on March 4.
oPidfPP
The next IM Board Meeting will be on March 3 at 12:30 pm in the 
IM Office.
Compiled by 
ANDY GLENDINNING
MEN from pago 9
onapass from junior forward Mike 
Hosni.
Highlighted by great passing, 
the Tartans earned a 16-14 lead 
early on. At the 13:20 mark, 
Carnegie Mellon began a run of 
nine straight points. Over this 
span, NYU missed eight straight 
points.
With CMU ahead 25-14, Now 
Yorks Adam Crawford and Sean 
Dillon began an incredible threepoint rally. Dillon hit six of seven 
three-pointers and totalled 25 
points on the night.
With just under three minutes 
remaining in the period, New York 
took the lead at 33-31. The half 
ended with the Tartans down 40- 
36.
The Tartans kept it close for the 
first 10 minutes of the second half, 
despite NYUs dominant size ad
vantage under the basket.
The only real difference to this 
point was Dillons three-point abil
ity.
With 9:30 remaining in the 
game, Dillon hit two free-throws 
to start New York on an incred
ible streak of domination. The 
Violets hit 10 straight points 
and lator hit nine straight to 
finish the game at 83-65.
Junior forward Derek 
Dragisich led the Tartans with 
15 points, followed by Jenkins 
and Hosni with 12 points each.
The team shot 46 percent from 
the floor. As a team, the Violets 
shot 75 percent from three-point 
territory.
On Sunday, the Tartans 
closed out their season at Emory 
University in Atlanta.
Final standings and team sta
tistics will appear in the March 
8 issue.
Connors is now eligible for 
the national All-American team 
which will be released on March 
8. He currently leads the team 
in scoring with 13.8 points per 
game, and rebounding with 9.3 
per game.
iftF.F MEETING TONIGHT!
will meet again following mid-semester bre For more information call x2111.Ask for Louie, Eric, orKeegan.if
CIA HAIR CUTS111 EVERY DAY
atCIMINI
walk-ins welcome 
406 S. Craig St.
1 BLOCK AWAY 
(OFF FORBES AVE.)621-4247
SELL FUNDRAISING CANDY
LOWEST PRICES NO 
RISK TOP BRANDS  
REESES, M&M, HERSHEY, AND MORE. .
Call for detailsand brochure
McKeesport Candy Co. 673-4406
PITT RESEARCHERS 
NEED VOLUNTEERS
Researchers seek men and women for 
a study looking at how job stress, 
personality, and emotions affect blood 
pressure. Participants must be: ages 
30-45; employed at least part-time; in 
good health with no history of high 
blood pressure or diabetes; within 20% 
of ideal weight. Please call 624-4746 
and leave a message if interested. 
Mention the PAGE study when you 
call. Volunteers will be paid for 
participating.
MAKEMYDAY!
WE WILL ON MARCH 2 
SKI BO ROOM 13 AT 7 PM
And maybe, the rest of your life. Campus Concepts, the nations fastest growing college marketing firm is coming to your campus. Since 1985, we have provided students with more than the typical summer-job opportunity. As a sales associate, you will receive great training, substantial performance based compensation, and unmatched business experience. Experience, which has opened doors for past associates at places such as Pepsico, Leo Burnett, Northwestern and Columbia Business Schools. These benefits come from creating your schools version of the Unofficial Student Guide which is distributed on 63 campuses to 850,000 students. If you are self-confident, resourceful, and hungry for success come see how Campus Concepts can Make The Rest of Your Life.
FMeD
SUMMER JOBS
classified
fJOUSINGSERVICES
Half-Block From CMU. Extremely large 
apartment. Three bedrooms. Living 
room ( 22'x1 T ). Dining room. Fullyequipped kitchen. Small office. Game 
room In basement ( 35'xl T ). Logburning fireplace. Private backyard. Onecar garage. Free use of washer/ dryer. 
Very large storage facilities. Legal permit 
for 4. Primary tenants may sublet. 
Available May 1993. $1450 plus gas and 
electric. Call 521-9441 after 8pm.
Money for college! Scholarships and 
grants available. Free details. Write ESN-2 
959 Berkshire Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15226. 
Or call (412) 563-4104
BaOfn
JOBS
invnwev w ThcnvSummer Programs 1993
Intersession : May 24 - June 11 
Summer Session : June 14 - July 23
 More than 50 regular offerings from the University's liberal arts curriculum.
 A three-week French-language Immersion program, featuring 
cultural walking tours and conversation classes.
 Weekend excursions : Normandy, Champagne, Loire Valley chteaux, 
Burgundy,Giverny and Chartres.
 Seminar tours with the University of Texas, the University of 
New Hampshire and the University of California at Berkeley.
Also, two new French Immersion Sessions:
 Summer '94 in Biarritz  Winter '94 in Paris 
Send for our 1993 Summer Programs Brochure :
The American University of Paris 
Summer Programs / U.S. Office 
80 East 11 th Street, Suite 434 
New York, New York 10003 
Tel. 1212) 6774870 - Fax (212) 475-5205
Cruise ships now hiring Earn 
$2,000+/month + world travel (Hawaii, 
Mexico, the Carribean, etc.) Holiday, 
Summer and Career employment 
available. No experience necessary. For 
employment program call 1-206-634- 
0468 ext. C5236.
Earn 5500+ weekly stuffing envelopes 
at home. Send long SASE: Country 
Living Shoppers, Dept. C22, 14415-E 
Greenwell Springs Rd, Suite 318, 
Greenwell Springs, LA 70739.
QN CAMPUS JOBS
Greeks & Clubs: $1,000 an hour. Each 
member of your frat, sorority, team, 
dub, etc. pitches in just one hour and 
your group can raise $1,000 in just a few 
days. Plus a chance to earn $1,000 for 
yourselfl No cost. No obligation. 1-800- 
932-0528
Free travel Information! Call AYH for 
Eurail passes, student ID cards or 
International hostel passes, issued over 
the counterl 422-2282.
Low student and faculty fares to 
international destinations. **Good fares 
within the USA**AYH and Eurorall 
passes***Experienced friendly service. 
Hours 9-5 Monday - Friday, 10 AM-Noon 
Saturday. Convenient location: 4608 
Winthrop St. off South Craig St. Call 
Forurn Travel 681-4099.
Spring Break: Cancn, Nassau from 
$299. Organize a small group for free 
trip. Call 1 (800) GET-SUN-1.
PERSONALS
Tammy at Carnegie Mellon. I met you 
at the Pittsburgh Airport on Wednesday, 
January 27th. You were returning from 
an Interview with XEROX in Rochester. I 
didn't get your number. My loss. Jim.
(716)359-0522.
Deadline
The deadline for submission of 
classified advertisements is 5 pm 
the Thursday before publication.
See it in 
writing!
The classifieds 
are an excel
lent tool to 
reach the en
tire Carnegie 
Mellon com
munity.
Something to Sell? Something you 
Want?
Let people know in the Classifieds. 
Send your ad today!
Classified 
Policy
Rates
1-20 words............$5
per week
21-50 words...................$8 ;
per week
51-100 words $10 :
per week
 Classifieds must be ! 
paid by cash or check 
before the first sched
uled run date.
 On-campus depart
ments and organiza
tions may pay by 
journal transfer with a 
valid account num
ber.
 Classifieds are not 
subject to discounts 
applicable to display 
ads.
 Classifieds reach a 
wide audience.
 The Tartan is pub
lished on the follow
ing Mondays: 3/8, 
3/15, 4/5, 4/12,
4/19, and 4/26.
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

IT'S TIME TO START THINKING 
ABOUT YOUR FUTURE.
Do you want to spend a semester or year in
FRANCE??
Do you want INTERNATIONAL experience? 
If your answer is YES to either question, 
apply now for the FALL '93 SEMESTER
at Carnegie Mellon's
CENTRE de TOURS 
Why should you go next year????
Carnegie Mellon Associate Professor of Architecture,
RICHARD BECHERER, will be teaching 
"PARIS IN THE TWENTIES:
THE ARCHITECTURE OF THE JAZZ-AGE"
(CMU course number 48-468)
Instead of only looking at slides of famous architecture, you will be able 
to see it first hand and experience the city that was the birthplace of one 
of the most fertile periods of European culture.
In addition, we will be offering the usual courses in French language, 
literature, economics, art history, political science and history.
PICK UP YOUR COURSE LIST AND AN APPLICATION AT THE OFFICE OF 
INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION, 219 SMITH HALL (BEHIND HAMBURG) OR CALL 
EMILY BIANCHINI AT X4969. WE ALSO HAVE INFORMATION ON OTHER STUDYABROAD OPTIONS AROUND THE WORLD.
APPLICATION DEADLINE: APRIL 2
DON'T WAIT!!!!
Kf
Tours
France

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

EDITOR'S WORDS
When I first arrived at Carnegie Mellon University I had only two 
goals  to be able to finish at least two beers without getting sick and meet 
as many All-American Wonderbread fraternity boys as I could. Homophobia, 
sexism, and racism were issues that existed outside of my world. My attitude 
was: There are plenty of people out there wholl fight it. Ive got better things 
to do. Its amazing what a close-minded little shit I was.
I did not think the problems of the real world would ruin the little 
utopia I had consu ucted for myself. But a friend of mine was date raped at 
a fraternity party. Another was discriminated against for her color. And not 
long afterwards, another friend was rejected by his parent for being gay. With 
all these new personal experiences, there was no way I could accomplish 
the goals I had originally set for myself.
My perspectives on life have certainly changed over the past year or 
so. Ive finally realized how important it is to take action against the 
prejudices that exist in our diverse university community and Ive also 
learned about myself and what should be my priorities. (Ive even developed 
a fetish for academic theory which Ive have worked into the most ordinary 
of conversations.)
I have created this ;ySEhph issue on sex, race, and gender as a forum 
for individuals of different ideologies and ways of life to express themselves. 
I want those people in their liide contained worlds to see what exists beyond 
the stereotypical college parties and drinking games. I want to see a dialogue 
initiated between those parties with opposing ways of life, I want to see 
questions asked, and most of all  I want the gap that exists between all of 
us to be filled.
There are many people out there who probably think people like me 
are asking too much and that there will never be a day when gays, lesbians, 
and bisexuals will be accepted in society. There will never be a day where a 
woman will be respected and considered equal to her male counterpart. And 
African Americans and other minorities will never make it out of the 
figurative "inner city.
One way of bridging the gaps in society is to climb out of the bubbles 
weve been living in. Because inevitably, those bubbles will burst somehow 
anyway and we may not be too happy with the consequences.
'"fr'loAAU.
mami borek 
22 februaiy 1993
TABLE OF CONTENTS
outing the military.........................................................................3
holidays, food, and women.......................................................4-5
group think hurts fraternities..................................................6-7
experiences of a gay programmer.............................................7
exotic alli-actions.........................................................................8-9
sexist ramifications of pumping gas...................................10-11
im black like dat.....................................................................12-13
romancing the other....................................................................14
fear of eroticism...............................................................................15

---------------------------------------------------

outing the military
The gays in the military issue as a whole is a very polemic policy issue. The way I see it 
there are four positions that people take when they think of the issue. The first of these is held by 
people that do not want change. They are blind to the advantages of integration and are ignorant 
of its long term necessity. They accept the discrimination often supporting it and the structures that 
enforce it. In most instances, these people are part of the military of the past generation. The policy 
is part of the military they support so they do not reject it  it's a package deal. A step above from 
the latter position are those who are indifferent to change and will ride any waves that come along. 
They do not feel responsible for the policy and are willing to let someone else make the decision. 
Then there are those people who would like to see the policy changed but are not willing to work 
for it. These are the free riders within both thegay and straight communities. Last ofall, there exists 
the special people who are willing to devote themselves to making a difference  if not for 
themselves  then for the next generations of gay people who will legally be able to serve our 
country. They are willing to take up the arm of justice and set it right again.
Last semester I listened to a speech Joseph Steffan delivered here at school. Hearing it, I 
was amazed at how much of his life he committed to policy change. Several years of his life have 
already been devoted to working for change. He was a senior about to graduate from the Naval 
Academy when he was asked to resign. I was asked to resign the end of my freshman year here at 
CMU. I spoke about the issue here and there thinking I could do my part to bring about change. 
1 know that 1 made more people in the city more aware of gays in the military and gave them a local 
name and face to think about. I know that I made the issue more personal for the people on campus 
that knew me but didnt know I was gay, especially my friends in NROTC. I know that I could 
have done more but did not want to because I wanted to concentrate on school and get on with 
my life as a human being  not merely a gay male kicked out of NROTC. I also realize however 
that this issue is not resolved for me. I think about the abrupt turn my life took when I became 
involved in the proceedings to remove me from the NROTC and then finally my resignation.
Steffan said in his speech that one man cannot change the world but only one small part 
of it. I would like to add something to that because, as a Christian, I remember that even Christ 
had his disciples. The American people have endowed certain individuals with the power to change 
our world; the President of the United States is such an individual. President Clinton is working 
hard to lift the ban on homosexuals in the military. The real struggle lies in changing the American 
people as a whole. The policy change must eventually be accepted by all the people who have been 
taught to hate and be distrustful of gay people.
Society's representation of gay (gay, lesbian, and bisexual) people in the past, especially 
in the media, has been less than positive, often neglecting the fact that we are daily contributors 
to society in all aspects, have supportive communities, and have the ability to love nor just have sex. 
Wave after wave of anti-discrimination supporters must strive to change the animosity within 
people. Example after example of OUTstanding gay people in the military must disarm the fears 
of the opposition and transform the hostility against integration to become not just gay heroes but 
heroes of human equality as well. The reality for non-discrimination in our world not just in the 
military is here. Which of the four stands is each of us willing to hold?
My own story isnt finished yet. I still think about the Marine Corps.BY FERNANDO DEGUIA
Special to Karnege
;V

---------------------------------------------------

Ever since I was about 17 and enlightened by the world of feminism, Thanksgiving has become one of the most 
testing and terrifying annual experiences in my life to date. As a holiday vigorously celebrated each year with my fathers 
side of the family, it is an event which to me exemplifies the gender roles and sentiments still so inherent in American 
middle class households in our so called progressive times.
It all begins about a week and a half into the month of November  all the wives get on the telephone (long 
distance) and begin to organize who is bringing what and how much of it; mince meat pie, cranberry sauce, the ever-present 
cream cheese and green jello mold, sweet potatoes and marshmallows etc... Needless to say, it is not my favorite meal (Ive 
been known to fill up on the green beans and sticky buns, the only seemingly normal food placed on the Thanksgiving 
table). This planning process usually takes about a week to square away so that all of the expected, traditional dishes make 
their appearance. 1 am not quite sure what the men are doing during this time besides salivating in anticipation of the grand, 
day long culinary event  the day on which they anticipate being graciously thanked with a huge meal and for what  
for being the men in the house? (Just as a side note, the only involvement the men have with the food besides eating it, 
is when one of them is chosen to carve the turkey, the most honored activity of the day.) This might cause one to question 
who deserves to be thanked on Thanksgiving, and towards which people/groups is this festivity geared. The men 
obviously think its for them. Didnt you know all holidays are for men and not the general population? I beg to differ on 
that point.
Anyway, the crisp, clear, third (and prepared for) Thursday in November finally arrives, and the grandparents, 
aunts, uncles, and cousins lazily saunter in on or around 12:30 in the afternoon, laden with casserole dishes covered by 
tin foil and plastic wrap. And this is where it gets interestingthis is when the division of gender roles begins (my favorite 
part). Basically, this division stems from the fact that women and men occupy different spaces for the remainder of the 
holiday, except tor during the dinner itself. Occasionally, a person may choose for some random reason or another to cross 
the established boundaries, but I could count these times on my 10 fingers. I dont need to tell you that the women are in 
the kitchen, and the men are chomping on hazelnuts and cheese in the TV room or are out playing football on the lawn, 
because I am sure most of you have already figured that one out. If, by slim chance, a man does decide to enter the kitchen 
and offer his assistance, it is to help the women with the womens work, not to do something he would automatically 
do.
HOLIDAYS 
MEN

---------------------------------------------------

This division of space usually puts me in an awkward position, because part of me knows that 1 should be helpful 
in thekitchen, but at the same time, I want to make a statement about how 1 feel by staying out of it. And I don't really want 
to hang around with the men, because they're not very exciting, except for my father, but he is usually there humoring 
grandpa, listening to the minute details about what is going on with my grandpa's friend at church, or what kind of new 
car his neighbor just bought, blah, blah, blah. So, this past Thanksgiving, I decided to test out rny gender role ideas on the 
entire family by periodically, throughout the day, strategically voicing my opinion whenever given the chance, in a suicidal 
effort to inspire some intellectual and moral thought about the situation at hand.
Forexample, at one point in the afternoon, my uncle and I were sitting in the living room talking, and another uncle 
of mine walked into the kitchen. 1 took the opportunity to say in a loud and clear voice, "Is that a man 1 just saw entering 
the kitchen? Does this mean liberation? to which my uncle in the living room began to jump down my throat. The end result 
of my efforts was achieved in a most elegant and polite manner when, while the entire family Call 20 of us) stood around 
the island in the kitchen before the symbolic cutting of the bird, and he proclaimed in his glory thatl was aNeo-nari, lesbian, 
feminist bitch" (makes me think of the Republican National Convention) which I am not sure, but think was supposed to 
be a joke.(?) His profound statement, unfortunately, set the stage for the rest of the day. No matter what conversation 1 was 
participating in, whether it was about feminism or not, i was subjected to sarcastic and harsh commentary. Someone even 
took the opportunity to joke about the fact that I was using my feminism as a means of escaping the never ending pile 
of dishes in the kitchen at the end of the day. i think I was too busy crying and trying to find a reason for escaping the house 
at the end of the day to even think about dishes. Boy, do I love my family sometimes, especially when 1 dont see them on 
a regular basis.
I have not doubt in my mind that until my brothers and 1 are grown and have Thanksgivings of our own, that this 
Thanksgiving gender saga will continue as usual. Its at least comforting to know that my parents feel somewhat the same 
as I do  they are far more aware and sensitive to issues than the rest of the family (although my father is still guilty), and 
they think the dinner menu is slightly unpalatable too, but they feel that because it is only one day out of the year, they can 
deal with the family without getting steamed up. My only genuine solace at this point is in the hope of being in France next 
fall, where 1 can avoid Thanksgiving all together. I am sure the rest of the family secretly hopes for my absence as well."
BY KRISTEN BEVERIDGE
Assistant Karnege Editor

---------------------------------------------------

group think
Last spring during Carnival, a group of women from Chatham protested the portrayal of women as nothing but sex objects on one of SAEs 
Thar She Blows party posters. The poster showed a smiling whale in a hot tub. A mermaids tail was hanging out of the tub and the outline of 
her head was visible under the water, giving the impression that she was performing fellatio on the whale. The Tartans story on the protest (vol. 
86, issue 22,13 April 1992) quoted Dean of Student Affairs Michael Murphy as saying, I think its clear this was a couple of individuals.... [The 
original poster] was not what the house stands for. I dont agree.
In my experience, the houses on this campus us stand for that sort of thing, almost without exception. Not that theres anything in their 
charters about it, of course. Im talking about the atmosphere at most fraternity functions, especially when there is alcohol involved. Im talking 
about parties like Phi Kaps Titanic party in the fall of 1991, which was advertised with the slogan, They Said Shed Never Go Down. Im talking 
about a group mentality that takes over at times in many fraternities. Individuals are rarely the problem. I know a lot of fraternity men who are 
wonderful, caring people, but turn into misogynistic jerks when theyre with their brothers at a party.
Thats the issue. Its the pSs,t that causes the problem, not the individual. cSyThSENT' wyEp ythR PhC4 oSsTlhSlssu4 yEu MSN1N-hph sE 
byUt,r4 by University of Pennsylvania anthropologist Peggy Reeves Sanday, is an anthropological study of the fraternity subculture and what 
it is about that subculture that allows and in many cases encourages the abuse of women. Sanday studies a gang rape that took place in a fraternity 
at a Pennsylvania university. She emphasizes, however, that rape is widespread and presents examples from a number of different schools in 
different parts of the country. Sanday describes in detail and gives evidence of the group-think that makes abuse of women normal.
Many people dont understand the allure of fraternity parties for women. Women, as well as men, get caught up in the atmosphere. Women 
often dress as they are expected to  outfits with low necklines and high hemlines. Some people believe, either consciously or subconsciously, 
that means the women deserve whatever they get. I once discussed this with a male mechanical engineering major who said, Girls at CMU dont 
have anything to complain about. They can get into any party they want. Do you think I can go to any party I want? No. I have to be on a guest 
list. If they dont like it, they shouldnt go. Theyve got it really good with the ratio here, and they dont have any right to complain. I dont know 
how anyone can say that. Its the old you-have-to-have-sex-with-me-because-I-paid-for-dinner attitude. The reasons women go to these parties 
are varied and often complex. They include issues of belonging to a close-knit group, needing admiration and approval of any kind, and having 
a place to go on weekends to dance and have a good time. No reason makes it okay to hit a woman or force her into any kind of sexual activity. 
Women have every right to complain, and they should.
Unfortunately, the idea that women shouldnt go to parties if they dont like the dangerous aspect of them is rather widespread, and is 
part of the same mentality that says, She should have fought back, or She shouldnt have gotten herself into that situation, instead of He 
shouldnt have done that. Think about that for a minute. Think of any rapes, assaults, or muggings youve heard about. What do people say about 
them? What do 's, say about them? Do people say, It was really dumb of her to go to that party alone/to go upstairs with him/to walk home alone 
at night? How many people say, What was he thinking? How could any man do that? Women are certainly responsible for their actions too, 
but a woman should not have to worry about being attacked if she wears sexy clothes. She should not have to be afraid that if she goes to a party 
alone, she might be raped. Too many fraternity men would rather push the blame onto the woman than take responsibility for the actions of their 
brothers.
The loyalty that members of the Greek system have for each other and their houses can lead to a house first attitude that is damaging 
to the Greek system. Ive known a number of Greeks for whom loyalty to the house means denying that any rape or assault would ever take place 
there. For others it leads to a much more constructive attitude that, in the long run, is much better for the house and the whole system. They 
acknowledge a problem that exists  women are often not safe at fraternity parties  and work to solve it. I know Phi Kap has had seminars 
done by Student Affairs, and a number of CMU fraternities have instituted sober patrols during parties  brothers who arent drinking that

---------------------------------------------------

night patrol the house to try to keep things from getting too out of control. Unfortunately, a lot of brothers still refuse to acknowledge the problem 
or accept responsibility for it.
Ive heard a number of different defenses. One popular one is: Women get raped in dorms too, which is less a defense than an evasion. Its 
true, but doesnt change the fact that women are raped and assaulted at fraternities. Nothing like that would ever happen lhSh4G is another favorite. 
It may or may not be true depending on the house. In an atmosphere where women are sexual targets, rated (sometimes formally) based on body 
shape and the amount of skin showing, it ushr happen. Unfortunately, this atmosphere prevails at many fraternities, even some of the more 
progressive ones. A third defense goes, Women are EsT unsafe at fraternities. If you believe that, answer this: Why do people recommend that women 
go to parties in groups? Why do people say its foolish for a woman to go to a party and get separated from her friends? Not because shes safe there.
The group mentality needs to be turned around so women can feel that they are respected, and can be safe when they go out to fraternity 
parties on weekends. The attitudes those responsible, mature individuals have away from the house need to be maintained even during the wildest 
party. Fraternities can be healthy, supportive places for men yEu women. CMU fraternities may support men, but they tend not to support women. 
This attitude is becoming increasingly anachronistic. More and more colleges and universities are eliminating fraternities. It could happen here too, 
and if the status quo continues, CMU fraternities, too, could disappear.
By HEIDI HOOVER
Tartan Contributing Editor
Experiences of a Gay Computer Programmer
Tfli:' Carnegie Mellon University is a fairly good place for a gay computer programmer but it isnt so good
for lesbian, bisexual, and gay flesblgay) people in general. The administration has finally taken a fairly positive 
stand, but homophobia {fear of lesbigays) is still rampant in some departments. The school would benefit a lot 
from a more accepting atmosphere and would do better to face the existing problems rather than deny them or 
hide them in committees.
When I arrived atCMU in the fall of 1987,1 was well aware that I was gay. Unfortunately, I was not ready 
to face the consequences of that, so I pretended I wasn't gay. CMU did little to help me grow as a person or 
come to accept myself so I could participate fully in life. In fact, the CMU,workload was a perfect way for me to 
hide all my feelings by keeping too busy.
There were occasional incidents where the issue of sexual orientation came up. I remember when one 
of my friends liad expressed disgust of homosexuals" to anotherfriend and that had started a bit of a fight.
Since CMU didn't have anything official to say about the Issue at fee time, both viewpoints were considered fine.
I wasn't about to corrVe out when half my friends might reject me. I remember that "GALA" (now called cmuOUT) 
was an organization that was the butt of Jokes. I can't recall anything specific, only that I got the impression I 
had to keep my distance in order to be accepted.
I remember seein|,a GALA/cmuOUT booth at an'activities fair. That was the first time I saw an openly 
lesbigay person (of course lUmet many before, IJustilidn't know). I was surprised that he didn't look like the 
stereotypes. It made me happy that there were othefpeople like me, but frightened me also because it brought 
me closer to applying the label '^ay" to myself.
I went to my first cmuOUT meeting my senior year. I walked into a room full of people. I was shaking 
with terror, but I forced myself to waik' in and fit down. Coming out totally changed my perspective.
I now see how all those attitude's; of/unacceptability" and such were used to keep me from expressing 
myself. They could have driven me to suicide except that I'm not the type to give up. They could have driven me 
crazy except that I enjoy problem solving and recognized the problem.
So how is CMU now? The administration is better. They spend a bit less time on lip service and a bit 
more time doing things. There was the one conflict though over the "sexual orientation" clause in the statement 
of assurance. The university released a version during the summer that slated they would not discriminate on 
the basis of sexual orientation in violation of laws. Well, of course this left the university free to discriminate 
if no law was in place ... Luckily some members of cmuOUT were on campus at the time and made the 
administration fix it.
There are some serious problems within academic departments. Drama students somehow pick up the 
idea that being openly gay or acting effeminate could get them cut from the program. Despite public accusations 
from a number of past drama students, the drama school seems to be more interested in pretending that there 
isn't a problem, than fixing the problem. The engineering schools can also be quite oppressive from what I've 
heard.These attitudes are destructive. People who can't express themselves spend a lot of energy 
suppressing themselves. That's energy that can't go into work. The way to change these attitudes is first to have 
assurances from above that being openly lesbigay won't hurt your status, and secondly, to have open discussion 
on these issues so that people can meet lesbigay people and learn that the stereotypes are wrong.
I'm happy here at CMU. because the computing services department where I work is very accepting. This 
came about from having a lot of thoughtful, open-minded people around and a few openly lesbigay people to show 
them the truth. I challenge the other departments at CMU to try to be as accepting.
By CHRIS NEWMAN
Special to Karnege

---------------------------------------------------

HflPPP
[fall day, and rhat you arcwalkinjHSjihc cur. A 
itches your eye. She glances back a^pu. In chut 
feed by her dark, slanted, almond-shaped eyes,;
How many loved your moments of glad grace, 
And loved your beauty, with love false or true?
long mane a 
moment you are
accented by her high cheekbones. Her paleskinemphasizes h<
chat have been caught in a half-smifePShe turns and,i;ontinue$jvv
away from you, leaving a presence in re minis cen^ o|^
exotic, foreign, yet exciting. In that single glance, she has capti^
For what reasons do we fall in love or are attracted to anyone? For what 
reasons are we attracted to a person of a different race?
,4S?"b

---------------------------------------------------

Many people think that reasons of attraction are the same, independent individual personalities. If we are ever to assimilate minority cultures
of race. But what attracts a man to a woman of a different race may be into mainstream American culture, we must confront even the smallessentially different than what attracts him to someone of his own race, est and most subtle forms of racism and prejudice. Full equality for all
HITN h
When the attraction is no longer intraracial and becomes interracial; the races in the United States may be a reality, but only if the mainstream
dynamics of attraction change. recognizes all cultures as a part of their own group instead of labeling
On this campus, the most common interracial relationship seems to be them as others.
between an Asian'American womiin and a white male.,Unfortunately, this It is also as a result of this treatment and labeling of Asian
relationship does not exist in a vacuum, but in the United States, where Americans as being others that we may find self-esteem problems
. e Soracism is becoming more and more of an issue. When we start to look at, not in the Asian female. From a minority standpoint, the Asian beauty has 
the relationship, but why men are attracted to Asian-Amferican women and yet to gain equal acceptance in comparison to the All-American 
how Asian American women respond to the attention, we must question the blonde-haired, blue-eyed beauty. This is keenly felt by many Asian 
degree that Asian American woman are assimilated and accepted as AmeriAmerican females growing up, as she is constantly reminded that her 
cans, not Asians. beauty is njjcqpritb a white womans beauty, trying to be something
We must confront the question of why white men are attracted to Asian that she is not. 
women. While some may be attracted out of a genuine belief that the Asianjjjj If the womans self-esteem has been put down enough, the 
features are beautiful, othersattraction may stem from racist beliefs. More consequence, is that she may call into question why someone is 
specifically  when the man is attracted because he thinks that an Asian attracted to her. No one should question their beauty, just because 
woman is exotic. Or, in the liberal spirit of diversity and experimentation they are not a fnember of the racial majority.
die Asian woman is something so unusual that the man wants to "try one." The Asian woman, or any other woman in a minority, must realize 
This is one case where the acceptance of other races is simply degradthat she can not let her own self-image be subject to someone elses 
ing, no matter who is giving the attention or who is receiving it. What is values of what beauty is. No woman, or man for that matter, should let 
someone expecting by trying an Asian woman? That this woman will be someone elses value judgment of beauty supersede theirown. Beauty 
die prevalent stereotype of the Asian woman  a woman who is submissive as:it relates to self-esteem should be a private, individualistic judgand docile, but at the same time sexually exotic? Do men who think this way ment, so that the clich, beauty is in the eye of the beholder is true, 
really feel that any Asian will be ready to fulfill their deepest Oedipal Here we see that racism and prejudice act upon our everyday
fantasy of mommy and exotic sex? Are men attracted to thestereotype of the perceptions arid the way that we treat other people. Some may argue 
Asian woman, or with the woman herself? ; /j that reacting to th|s form of racism is an overreaction, because it is so
It is on this very personal level, that we see the results of a much larger minor in comparison to the broader issue of racism. But it is not.
social reality. Although the cultural Melting Pot is an American ideal, we We can not ignorp racism and prejudice because it appears to be
'annot achieve it. When we want to try an Asian, even though they are faint or benign. They have a dire'ct effect on people, although it may 
Asian American, we are still treating that person, not as an American, but as be hidden. If we refuse or are unable to recognize a form or racism 
something outside of mainstream American culture. because we believe that it is too subtle to confront, then we may never
It is here that a very subtle form of everyday racism is evident. While we be able to face the issue of racism at all. If we arc unwilling to do so,
should not ignore the histories and contributions of other cultures to the then we mustquestionifwetrulywantto make themythical American 
American culture, we cannot attach a persons cultural history to their Melting Pot a reality.
By RUTH RASM<ASSA)
Special to Karnege.

---------------------------------------------------

I work at the Exxon gas slalion right down Forbes Avenue, and I must say, for the most part, I really enjoy it. I get to stand around all day and pump gas 
and wash windows and check transmission fluid and stick my head under hoods and get my hands greasy and fun stuff like that. I've gotten lots of Iree goodies  
Exxon shirts that say "Bill," an awesome black corduroy baseball cap that says 'Superflo motor oil,' and a tire gauge. And let me tell you, no one knows how to make 
coffee like a mechanic.
But despite of all the fun I have, there are some really annoying things about the job. I like the people I work with as well as the clientele  they're like the 
people I grew up wilh and the kind of person I like to think I am  friendly, funny, straightforward. But unfortunately, for all their good intentions, they wouldn't 
know sexism it if came up and bit them on the ass. Or asked for a fill on supreme.
The way in which this sexism manifests ilsell is rarely blatant or even Intended, but every time I turn around, there it is staring me in the face.
The worst is when someone asks me if I know how lo check their oil. I gel really pissed when this happens, but since I am working in a service Industry 
where, supposedly, customers come first, I am forced to swallow my biting comments, smile, and say, Sure. No problem." The nice thing is, though, once I'm under 
the hood I can say whatever I want and nobody will hear. (The other female attendant taught me this little stress-relieving trick.) Oh, if those fan bells had ears!
Another really annoying thing is when people walk right past me to pay the man I work with. The conversation always goes like this: "Sir, you can pay me." 
Oh, do you work here?" I smile and nod. He takes out his wallet and tries to make small talk. "Don't see too many girls in this line of work." I smile and nod. Here 
you go. Have a good day," he says and hands me the money. I smile, nod, and walk brusquely away because I dont trust myself lo remain civil.
And it's not just the customers, either. My coworkers are all very nice lo me and stuff, but some of their attitudes are fucking medieval. Like them nol 
letting me work graveyard shifts because that would mean lhal I'd be running the station by myself, and I might be the victim of a robbery or something (like 
gunshots wound women worse than they do men). And my boss calling me Honey" and Sugar" and all those disgustingly condescending names that, to the best 
of my knowledge, went oul with hula hoops and Ward Cleaver. And the posters hanging in the office, featuring the always-blonde, well-endowed, bikini-clad Miss 
Phillips Screwdriver 1992. And their constant cuts on woman drivers. And the fact that they always come and help me when someone needs something other than a 
lill-up and a quart ol oil.
The list goes on and on and on, and it's not limited to sexist comments either. I think I've heard enough racial slurs at the gas station lo last me quite a 
while (as If I hadn't heard enough before). I do try lo point these things out to my coworkers, but no one really seems to care about what Im saying. Once the word 
"sexist" or "feminist" escapes my lips, they no longer pay attention. I guess that's what really bothers me. If they would just listen to me, I think I could make them 
understand whal the problem is.
But they won't listen. They say they don't understand, that I'm just whining, why don't I just suck it up and cope. But I think lhal, just like many of my male 
friends here on campus, they're copping out. The truth is, If these people wanted to understand what's upsetting me, instead of switching into autopilot ultra
conservative bullhead every time the conversation turns to sexism, they could.
Also, I don't just want them to censor their comments around me. I want them to change their thinking. I just don't know how lo make them see. Talking 
doesn't work. Ignoring it Is just as bad as participating In it. And if I get pissed, they'll just think I'm on the rag.
Ugh. It makes me tired lo think about all of this. No matter how far Virginia Slims ads say we've come, weve still got a long, windy road up ahead. In an 
academic setting, when there's a bunch of us feminists silting around a classroom discussing the implications of certain rhetoric, it's easy to get caught up in 
Iheories and models ol thinking and why this one is problematic and why I'm sympathetic lo such-and-such a writer and not to another and blah blah blah. It's easy 
to target about the real world outside, and what, It anything, these essays mean In that context.
The real struggle is nol lo argue back and forth aboul which academic has the best theories (though thinking, writing, and communicating our ideas is 
important). The struggle is to figure out how to get gas station attendants to get rid of Miss Supertlo and start treating women as grownups who can check their own 
damn brake fluid if they want to.
BY MEGAN DIETZ
Tartan Contributing Editor
mm

---------------------------------------------------

The Sexist Ramifications
ii GASu
YT'tJ4 3Y_N

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Im Black Like dal
Why is it that whenever white people want to know something about black folks, they always have a 95-tooth grin when they ask? Why 
do white folks always need to laugh the loudest when watching a black comedy show (like ySTNE*4 or feel the need to cry the hardest when watching 
a drama (like K,hhE*: Thats because they are probably sitting in a room with at least one black person and it is probably nervous laughter. You know
 the kind of laugh you give when your great uncle Cornelius from Mississippi farts loudly at the dinner table during Christmas. You don't want 
to say anything, so in order to break the tension you give a 95-tooth grin and a little chuckle.
Yeah, yeah, yeah I know what you're saying, ^c,gmNE[ [a[PmNtlhSh Ih ps INTl yEsTlhS sEh sH Tlsrh ,hrTNsENEp dNp?i UhyE aHSNgyE aUhSNgyEr 
ypyNE$ Blh'[Sh y-Iy'r yrmNEp ,hrTNsEr555Il'4 Il'4 Il'$G Well  you're so very right! I am questioning. Do you know want to know why? Because 
I haven't heard any worthwhile answers! So I'm giving a few of my own. In the words of Martin (from the show ySTNE*R Gi[U usNE[ U' TlyEp$G5
Why is it that when I am "dressed" and out somewheredowntown for instancepeople recognize me? I walk into stores and sales clerks 
no longer ask me for 27 pieces of identification before I can even "think" about cashing a check. You know why? Because I'm Ms. Black CMU role 
model. I'm Ms. Comfortable, Ms. Middle Class, Ms. No Threat. The store clerks want to rhhU as if they have no need to follow me around the store 
and watch my every moveyet they are still watching. And I'm too smart to know that their strained grins arent because they so love my company
 it's because they want me to buy my shit and get out.
Yet when I walk into those very same stores on a day when I'm just chillin' in a baseball cap and Cross Color jeans  i am no longer Ms. 
No Threat. Store managers give their security guards a knowing "follow that thief" look. These same tense-lipped women don't even recognize me! 
And the story never changes. Tired security guards usually just trying to scrape together enough money to supplement their pension, hobble around 
giving me the "eye". But they mEsI it's me. I look like their daughter or their niece or their granddaughter. And these men  they look like my 
father, my great uncle or my grandfather. They're just trying to play the middle. They need to appease the "man" so as not to seem partial  but 
they also need not look like a sellout.
One day I confronted one brother on this very issue. I said GdsI 7SsTlhS3UyE Il' ySh 's, rIhyTNEp Uh y-- lySu: !s, mEsI i[U pssu5* I told 
him that while he was so busy following little ole' black me around the store, three white girls were huddled in a corner doing "serious damage" 
to a rack of Guess jeans. He knew.
And why is it that when I was lost in a nice hotel, the placid-faced reservationist just assumed that I was looking for the kitchen? And no! 
She didn't think I was hungry either. I can't cook and I am not trying, yet she thought I was the kitchen help. Fine. No shame in that. But how 
did she know that I wasn't looking for the managers office to complain about inadequate service? How did she know that I wasn't looking for the 
lawyers conference in the building, or the national dance symposium banquet? She didn't know. She didn't care. I wonder if I were white and looking 
as lost and stupid as I was if she would have directed me to the kitchen. She probably would have let me finish asking her how to reach my destination. 
Or better yet  if I were white, she may have actually acknowledged me as a person and asked me if I was lost! What a cute and novel idea, huh?
It is so messed up! 1 mean why is it that an unarmed black man can get the hell beat out of him like a dirty rag doll by "the law " but it 
goes unpunished? We all can't ^hr[pNT y-sEpG because America isn't the environment to cultivate such a simple plea  yet. Sorry Rodney. I know 
white folks and maybe even some black folks are saying, Gwhh xN< BsU3 Il' Nr rlh lyStNEp sE TlyT suEh' ;NEp rT,HH ypyNE:G And my answer is that 
1 am not harping, I'm just counting  out loud. Lets see  we have Emmet, Yusef, Sharice, Rodney  no last names needed  we all know who 
they are.
Why did their situations need to be? Why does my situation need to be? Why did my freshman orientation counselor tell me to stay away 
from East Liberty, The Hill and other such areas? This is because they were, in her words ," nNmh4 Ih-- ,l555'y mEsI  uyEphSs,r5G What? Why did 
she say that? I'll tell you why. Because she felt so safe walking through Shadyside or Squirrel Hill. And you and I both know why she felt safe. And 
she wanted to let the other kids know how they too could be "safe." I mean, if you want to get technical  life is dangerous. And when I asked 
her what the difference was about getting beat down in East Liberty rather than in Shadyside  she had no answer. You know why? Because all 
sidewalks look the same when you're kissing them.
Why does the nervous laughter need to exist in the TV lounges across America? Why am I always the potential thief that's constantly dogged, 
while others are practically grabbing clothes and running away with them just like the looters in L.A? Why do tired overworked security guards 
feel the need to press me for "appearances sake" because that's what "they" expect? And we know who "they" Is, or at least we should  no matter 
who we are. Why do "they" even need to expect such behavior? Why Emmet? Why Yusef? Why Sharice? Why Rodney? Why me?
I think the answer lies in the famous Bud Dry commercial 555Gxl' yrm Il':G Ask yourself that  then we'll talk!
By TRINETTE CHANDLER
Assistant Karnege Editor

---------------------------------------------------

romancing the "other: "popular culture and discriminatory dating
Birds of a feather flock together. You can judge a man by the company he keeps. These and other expressions explain why similar people 
end up spending time (and often their whole lives) together. Specifically, I've heard rather racist folks use these old adages to describe the abundance 
of romantic relationships between people of the same ethnic background. Since high school, when I dated an Indian guy for a year, Ive become 
sensitive to the reality that Interracial relationships are a big no-no to many people. Many more say something like, I think its fine but not for me. 
Really? Why do so many people shrink away from having boyfriends and girlfriends of different ethnicities?
M8I1, you ain't gotta Worry 'bout a tun 'Bout yuur lailQltCP
For one thing, popular culture rarely features interracial couplings. In film, television, and advertising, Asians are neatly paired with Asians, 
whites with whites, African Americans with African Americans. When these rules are broken, as in Spike Lees Jungle Fever, the ensuing ruckus is 
enough to convince the parties involved that interracial love is rough love, and probably not worth it. Although 1 commend Spike for slapping America 
in the face with the reality of cross ethnic romance, I cant think of a film where an interracial love relationship has any amount of success. Im not 
saying 1 want a happily ever after ending, but maybe a wedding? Or a nice visit with the parents? Or how about some supportive friends? Id be 
hard pressed to find anything out there in American mainstream culture that actually encourages dating outside your ethnic group.
Artists, like the rap group Public Enemy, recognize the fear many people have of a black planet. In high school, most of my family couldnt 
deal with the fact that my boyfriend wasnt white. Youre playing with a stacked deck, they would tell me, expressing their concern for the horrible 
problems they were sure I would run into because of the vast cultural differences existing in my relationship. We wouldnt know what to name our 
children. We wouldnt know which country to get married in. We wouldnt know which ethnic group to socialize with. We wouldnt know how to decorate 
our house. This, of course, caused me to try even harder to have the perfect relationship. 1 guess Mom never learned the reverse psychology thing. 
As Chuck D. would say, whats wrong with some color in your family tree?Nan she ain't my type But supposin she said she loved me
Without sounding too much like Seventeen magazine, allow me to share what 1 have figured out about the whole interracial thing (or thang, 
depending on what language you speak). Dating someone of another culture can be wonderfully broadening. It can expand your awareness of ethnic 
pride and heritage and increase the value you place on your own familys history. But dating someone different from you can be frustrating, confusing, 
and dangerous, too. It takes added understanding to crush back the ideas youve been raised with and to learn respect for new, unfamiliar ones. Its 
hard when a person you are close to has beliefs which you do not agree with. It is a challenge, but every personal relationship has its challenges.
The primary challenge of an interracial relationship lies within the exploration and bridging of the cultural gap which will inevitably exist 
between the two of you. For the relationship to reach any significant level of development, you have to forge an understanding of and respect for 
the differences in beliefs, values, traditions, and general ways of life that youll notice popping up continually. Once the two of you reach an 
understanding, then worry about getting everyone else to understand. No, it wont be as harmonious as Michael Jackson and Paul McCartney singing 
Ebony and Ivory, but dont exclude someone from the pool of prospective soul mates just because he or she isnt exactly the same as you. Call 
me innocent, but 1 still believe that love transcends all personal information. Just look at Jonn and Yoko.
Are you afraid of the mix of Black aon White
lyrics from Public Enemy's "Fear of a Black Planet," 1990By LAURA DAVIS
Special to Karnege
 ---------- __________________________ __

---------------------------------------------------

j-eak* of
e rvc5+i <3 i s
It's amusing how sex connoisseurs Masters and Johnson turn lesbian sex into a clinical study, taking away its eroticism. Their Human Sexuality book is 
designed for those who have been cooped up in the laboratory for way too many years.
Most disturbing is how the ex-lovebirds represent lesbians in their handy-dandy text. There are pages and pages of descriptions revealing just how and 
why these "alternative" individuals perform their sexual acts. It's the Masters and Johnson "day at the zoo with strange animals" commentaryone that mainstream 
society is not unaccustomed to.
So what is so fascinating about what percentages of lesbians prefer oral sex or "manual breast manipulation"? If people are truly curious about what goes 
on when the lights are out, they should not be reading the Kinsey report information in Human Sexuality. The problem is, straight America is scared to put books 
about gay love and sex on the ordinary library shelf. And even if the books were available, Mr. or Ms. Smith is more likely to crouch m a secluded corner of the 
library to read the material rather than take it home to enjoy in the easy chair.
There is plenty of heterosexual erotic literature on the market to satiate any curious individual (usually the adolescent, who doesn't give two shits about the 
novel's plot  just the "sex scenes.") So what's the problem with lesbian literature? I know, I know  HOMOPHOBIA and the fear of AIDS could be the answer. 
But what about the idea that lesbian erotica takes away from the conventional notions of male and female sexual behavior (the man is the conqueror, the woman 
the slave to his every desire)? This may be a little too much for social scientists and their followers to deal with.
A question arises from this dilemma. What's better  a representation of individuals through the microscope view of social and medical scientists  or 
practically no widespread representation at all? Where's sexual enlightenment when you need it most?
Let's set up a little competition  Masters and Johnson's clinical "kiss the derriere" of the Kinsey report producers text vs. the writings of a well-known author 
of erotic literature for women  Susie Bright. There should be no doubt in one's mind of what is more interesting and more human, and  not to mention  more 
pleasurable.
Masters, Johnson, and Kinsey Reports (M,J, K) vs. Susie Bright (SB)
ROUND I
M,J,K: "...among women wilh extensive lesbian experience, 98 percent had used genital touching, 97 percent had manually stimulated breasts, 85 percent had 
orally stimulated the breasts, 78 percent had experience with cunnilingus, and 56 percent had used a genital apposition technique (rubbing the genitals together)." 
SB: "| 've wanted to talk about tribadism for a while now, because so many of you practice that ancient Sapphic activity but don't know what the word is. Straight 
teenagers have their own term for it, expressed in their anguish at not going all the way: dry humping. I've heard some queens refer to the same action as frottage. 
But for lesbians, our little mounds are just made for rubbing up against each other, and this passion is known as Iribad(rhymes with livid)-/sm."
ROUND II
M,J,K: 'The lesbian caressing her partner's breasts seems to do so with more attention to her partner's responses, while men often approach heterosexual breast 
stimulation more for their own arousal than for their partner's pleasure."
SB: "Women, on the other hand, were lauded for our inherently sexual gentility and monogamous nature, equating our desire with romantic love, our sex with 
nurturing, nonfocused sensuality. Sexual pleasure and liberation were absolutely not priorities for women. Finally, women never used, produced, or enjoyed 
pornography.
And if you believe any of the above, I've got a great piece of property to show you on the Love Canal."
ROUND III
Mj,K: "Besides starting with more relaxed genital play, lesbians do not usually insert a finger deeply into the vagina."
SB: "Putting your curled-up hand in your lover's vagina won't give you direct ditoral stimulation, but it will give you direct hormonal stimulation....If this sounds 
romantic, you're right."
Masters, William H., Virginia E. Johnson, and Robert C. Kolodny. Human Sexuality . Boston, Massachusetts : Little, Brown, and Company. 1985 
Bright, Susie. Susie Sexpert's Lesbian Sex World .Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania : Cleis Press. 1990 -o _. .---------  By MARA)CJ BORfiK

---------------------------------------------------

KARNEGE IS A MONTHLY 
SUPPLEMENT OF THE TARTAN.
EDITORS: 
MARNI BOREKAND 
BARBARA A. REYES 
ASSISTANT EDITORS: 
KRISTEN BEVERIDGE AND 
TRINETTE CHANDLER 
SPECIAL THANKS TO: 
ELAINE ANN, LAURA DAVIS, 
FERNANDO DEGU1A, MEGAN 
DIETZ, SAMUEL GREENFIELD, 
HEIDI HOOVER ]N 
KUNICHIKA, CHAD MCDANIEL, 
CHRIS NEWMAN, RUTH 
RASMUSSEN, CESAR SANCHEZ, 
AND KRIS WEBER

---------------------------------------------------

v\- ' s  V-f W&Sfc *<  > [[1a5 z
Major Crimes on Allegheny Campuses
F " ?
K^v '/y '
*4
; :\j|
4)
Escort stresses 
ndividual safety
By LAUREN HEINZ
agTNEp chyT,Shr bs3fuNTsS
It is common knowledge that walking alone at 
night is dangerous. However, at one time or another, 
all of us have had to make the long journey home, off 
campus or otherwise, alone. The Escort service on 
campus is working to make sure no student has to 
walk home alone.
Its estimated that between Shuttle and Escort, 
the two services transport between 900 and 1200 
students per dayEscort alone transports approxi
mately 130 students a night. Considering the num
ber of students the drivers are responsible for, Es
cort has become quite an important service to the 
CMU community.
Drivers at the Escort service have a clear sense of 
their obligation to students to ensure they get home 
safely. I wait until they get in their door, says 
sophomore and lead driver Melissa Berridge, a chemi
cal engineering major. There is definitely a reason 
f stay and wait. But Berridge admits that this is 
sometimes hard to enforce. Some people insist that 
you drop them off at the comer or they wave you off 
as soon as they step out of the van. It really disturbs 
me. I want to know theyve gotten inside safely, she 
says.
But perhaps the biggest factor that endangers the 
complete efficiency of Escort is their tendency to 
keep people waiting. People just dont like to wait 
for us, says another lead driver Dan Razum, a 
chemical engineering graduate student. They dont 
understand w^y we dont have a bus for them, get 
jad, and end up walking home alone anyway. 
wrridge agrees. We cant produce a van at the drop 
fa hat. We only have one and it breaks down a lot. 
People wait around and then just walk home any
way  its totally counter-productive, she says. 
Escort was designed to take people to their homes, 
ut many use it to get to parties or a friends house.
in the long-run, takes time away from those 
*ho are alone and, for safetys sake, in need of a ride.
ve had a group of five guys call me from the gym 
and ask for a ride, says Berridge. I dont think they 
really in too much danger or anything. It 
funded more like laziness than necessity to me. Im 
Bore concerned about the individual. Both Berridge 
Please see ESCORT, page L3
Ramsey Hong/Tartan Art EditorHousing offers 
security advice
By BOB DIXON
BySTyE PhENsS PTyHHISNThS
Every mans home is his castle, or so the saying 
goes. For students living in University Housing at 
Carnegie Mellon, there are precautions they can 
take to ensure that their homes are safe, secure 
castles.
Students need to be aware of their resources, 
said Amy Ginther, assistant director of Housing 
for Residence Life. Residence Assistants in every 
area of campus attend presentations by Campus 
Police officers during RA training; RAs also attend 
a refresher safety course presented by Security 
Director James LaPaglia during the academicyear. 
Desk Attendants (DAs) on duty also check to see 
that all outside doors in their areas of campus 
Housing are shut and locked. In addition to DAs 
monitoring doors while on duty, a student is em
ployed by the Housing Office to check the working 
order of and file maintenance requests for every 
outside door to every University Housing building.
At the front doors of larger dormitories on cam
pus, the desk attendant system has been improvingyearafteryear. Individuals entering Morewood 
Gardens, Resnik, the West Wing, and Mudge House 
must show a CMU ID to the desk attendant on duty 
in addition to using it in the card readers at the 
door or building keys in front door locks. Each year 
we have better training of [service] desk manag
ers, said Ginther. This yields better supervision 
of desk attendants.
In terms of personal safety, Ginther emphasized 
the importance of taking Escort and Shuttle ser
vices when travelingoff campus and taking advan
tage of the upcoming SafeWalk program when on 
campus. She advises students to allow extra travel 
time for taking one of the campus services or to 
wait until a friend or group of frionds is available 
to share the trip. She also emphasized the need to 
look like youre going somewhere when walking.
Ginther said that one very disturbing problem 
that needs work is that of harassing telephone 
calls. Phone calls often seem to come from people 
whom the victim knows. Some students seem to 
make harassing phone calls as a type of recre
ational activity. Whether harassment is in person 
Please see HOUSING, page L2
[D
Police put crime in perspective
By LAURA PALANKER
BySTyE PTyHHISNThS
With the rising rates of hpmicide 
and robbery in Allegheny County over 
the past two years, one might worry 
about the safety of the CMU campus. 
It would be nave on our part to think 
that we wont be affected by [the rise 
in crime] in any way, says chief James 
LaPaglia, Security Director. Even with 
the increase in crime, you may be 
safer than you think.
I think were in the forefront when 
it comes to safety and security on 
campuses, says LaPaglia. CMUs 21- 
officer force includes a pro-active sen
sitive crime unit that places special 
emphasis on victim assistance and 
community cooperation to reduce 
trauma and fear in the victims and in 
the community. We have these pro
grams in place for things we hope will 
never happen, says LaPaglia. One 
male and one female officer make up 
each of two sexual assault teams, 
which are trained to investigate sexual 
assault crimes and assist the victims. 
The departments hate crimes team 
 a special unit the city of Pittsburgh 
doesnt even have  comprises 50 
percent of the force. All members of 
both units volunteered to be trained 
and available to serve on these teams.
Campus Police is also trying to com
bat off-campus crime. A student is 
about 10 times more likely to be a 
victim off campus than on campus, 
says LaPaglia. The department is in 
the process of putting together a safety 
brochure, at the request of the Gradu
ate Student Organization, for students 
who live in off-campus housing. 
Theres a tremendous concern on our 
part for off-campus students, says 
LaPaglia. Since Ive been here, thats 
been one of my major concerns.
Campus Police has reduced on-campus crime by making the student body 
Please see POLICE, page L3

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  22 February 1993
Columnist, although busy, manages to find himself
dh,SsTNg nN1NEp
by Andrew Sproule
Its been a confusing week. So many 
things have been happening. For one, I 
had to figure out my taxes. For some 
' reason, owing 30 percent of last years
 income  which was zero dollars  I 
figured that I have to send the govern
ment $300.1 might have to recheck my 
;njath. Besides that, I was appointed
* acting co-editor of the Features section. 
_ It wasnt easy to get this job. Andrew, 
would you be interested in being co
editor? asked the powers that are. Um, 
I have no idea what I'm doing, but sure, 
Id like that, I said. Most people would 
have cracked under the strain of the 
requirements. The specific requirements 
_ are  not quite dead yet. I filled them to 
'a'tee. I can hear you now, Whats the 
problem? You should be feeling on top of 
,the world. Well, my co-editor, Lauren 
Heinz, was out of town and she is the one 
1 wlio balances us out as a team (meaning: 
she knows what she is doing). Since I
was the only one here, I hadno one to call 
to tell them that my column would be 
late.
It used to be the case that I would call 
my editor and say, My column might be 
a little late because I need to go to the 
hospital and get this tumor removed. 
Now, were Lauren in town, I could con
ceivably do the same thing. But, shes 
not and if I called myself, I might catch 
on to the fact that 
I was lying 
through my teeth.
It would really 
have to be a convincinglietogetit 
by myself. Maybe 
if I just told my
self the truth, An
drew, you have no 
idea what you are 
going to write 
about. You might 
want to consider 
firing yourself if 
you mess up thiB 
deadline." Obvi
ously, I meant 
business. ,
In order to avoid direct confrontation, 
I decided to call myself up at home. A 
problem immediately arose. I dont have 
call waiting so whenever I dialed my
number I would get a busy signal. I 
might have been avoiding myself or 
maybe Ive just been really busy.
I went into the office. Maybe Id find 
myself there. Since the office has more 
than one line, I figured I could call my
self while I was there and let myself 
know that the column was having a 
little trouble getting written. I know 
youre not going to believe this, but when
ever I called I was always on the other 
line. I left a lot of messages and I never 
returned my calls typical me.
I was really starting to worry. If I 
didnt let myself know about missing the
deadline, I was going to have to have a 
serious talk with myself. As a matter of 
fact, I decided to have a Features edito
rial meeting about me missing my dead
lines. Lauren wasnt back yet and there 
was no assistant.
Hence, I was the only person who 
showed up. I was late. Dont worry, I 
reprimanded myself. Nothing concrete 
happened at the meeting because I 
wasnt talk
ing to my
self. I finally 
decided I 
would have 
to comer my
self.
I thought 
I might find 
you here, I 
said to my
self. Of all 
the places to 
sit down and 
have a heart 
to heart talk, 
the bathRamsey Hong/Tartan Art Editor room. I seem 
to spend the majority of my free time 
there; so, I was pretty sure I would find 
me there. We need to talk, I said. 
Listen, I know Ive been missing my 
deadlines but, with this tumor and hav
ing to work four jobs to pay for famine 
relief in Somalia, Ive been running be
hind, I lied. I decided to be a model of 
compassion. Andrew, youre (literally) 
lying to yourself. I think we need to start 
communicating a little better. Try the 
truth and maybe we can work some
thing out.
Its okay now. I worked something out 
with myself. I just need to let myself 
know when aproblem arises. I still didnt 
have the heart to tell myself that I just 
didnt have an idea for the column. But 
maybe I could use this problem and 
generalize it to problems that most people 
have with communication in relation
ships.
Maybe if we all communicated a little 
better with each other the world would 
be an easier place to live in. Maybe if 
people of all color, races, religions, and 
sexes communicated better, war and pov
erty might become obsolete.
Then again, maybe Id use the idea 
and turn it into a banal and meaningless 
essay that will be used to line the floors 
of pet cages.
aEuShI PtSs,-h Nr agTNEp chyT,Shr 
bs3fuNTsS5 )h Nr TS'NEp Ts mhht lNr rh 
hrThhU NE TygT 7,T NrE[T r,Sh lh lyr Tlh 
hEhSp'5 ySm PyU7hS Nr Tlh a7rs-,Th 
ns1h w,S,5
Morewood Gardens mysteries unveiled
Pgl-ypAr dsrh
by Graham Gibby
For those of you still reeling from the 
length of last weeks column, you can see 
Ive been shrunk back to my normal 
boundaries. Arent we all thankful? This 
week Im going back to the architecture 
line. Professor Ted Fenton is writing a 
book on the history of CMU, and he has 
generously allowed me to use parts of it 
for my column.
Getting on to business, Mike Voytko, 
frpshman drama major, fired off a salvo, 
pitrt of which goes like this: What is 
some of the historical background on 
Morewood Gardens? When was it actu
ally built, and for how long was it an 
apartment building before the univer
sity bought it? Also, when was E-Tower 
built, and was it always connected to the 
rost of Morewood?" On Morewood, 
Fenton, in chapter 4 of his book, says 
this: "... CIT purchased an apartment 
building, Morewood Gardens, in 1946 
when the $8 million check from the
Carnegie Corporation arrived, renovated 
it for women, and added a new social 
wing.
In my search for the age of the build
ing, I talked to Bill Elliott, vice president 
for Enrollment and avid collector of 
Carnegie memorabilia. He showed me a 
postcard depicting Morewood Gardens 
Apartments and postmarked 1932, so 
we know its at least 60 years old, prob
ably even 65 or more. E-Tower was built 
in 1962 after three houses along Forbes 
were razed. I have a map, drawn by an 
A Phi 0 member which is dated about
Delta. Im not sure who occupied the 
houses in '46, but Professor Fenton men
tions in his writing that Tech had been 
moving fraternities into houses it owned 
on (the site between Morewood and De
von road) for many years. Rather than 
repair them, Tech decided to tear them 
down and replace them with fraternity 
units all built upon the same general 
plan. From talking to people, that con
struction started about 1965 with the 
Delta Upsilon/Beta Theta Pi house and 
ended in 1972 with Kappa Sigma/Theta 
Xi. Before those buildings went up, DU
"... CIT purchased an apartment building, 
Morewood Gardens, in 1946 when the $8 
million check from the Carnegie Corporation 
arrived...
___________________ professor Ted Fenton
1940, that doesnt show Morewood (ar
tistic license I guess), but does show the 
four houses, one on the corner of 
Morewood and Forbes, the others along 
toward Panther Hollow. They are la
beled as fraternity houses, owned by 
Beta Sigma Rho, Iota Delta Lambda, 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon and Delta Tau
and ATO were pretty much where they 
are now, with Theta Xi in the house that 
still stands at 5017 Forbes and holds 
Alumni Relations and affiliated offices. 
Pi Kappa Alpha was also in about the 
same place. I have heard stories that the 
current fraternity houses were built as 
Please see 'SCHLAG, page L3
Keep dorm rooms safe
HOUSING, from page LL
or over the telephone, students should 
be aware that disciplinary commit
tees are a resource for students to 
have harassment stopped ... [a stu
dent] can pursue any level of harass
ment through hearings. Ginther 
hopes that there
aware of resources 
and common sense.
will be an oppor
tunity in the fu
ture to develop 
guidelines for an 
additional floor 
meeting in the 
first week of 
school for stu
dents in University housing. The
new floor meeting would focus on mak
ing the atmosphere in residence hall 
communities safe for all people. The 
goal would be to create places where 
students are safe from being bashed 
because of differences.
Beyond being aware of resources, 
students have to take certain steps to 
keep themselves safe. Doors to suites 
and dormitory rooms should be locked 
whenever students are not present in 
them. Doors should be kept locked 
especially when students are sleep
ing. Opportunity theft [thefts which 
occur when a potential thief takes ad
vantage of an unsecured room or of
fice], said Ginther, is most common. 
Students can also protect their be
longings by engraving identification 
numbers into them. Recently, Campus Security con-Staying safe on camducted Operation
5 5 55 ID programs inpus is a combination three University
of two things ... being^menibui:d'
Operation ID 
provides an en
graving device for
__________________ students to use in
puttingidentification numbers on their belongings and 
provides stickers for students to affix 
to their doors, identifying the room as 
one which contains traceable belong
ings. Engraving equipment can be 
checked out from the Housing Office 
at any time.
Staying safe on campus is a combi
nation of two things, being aware of 
resources like Escort and Safe Walk, 
and common sense, like keeping doors 
shut and locked when sleeping or out 
of the room.
UnlbedVfey
20, 21.81C lll its an adventure.
Call x2111 for details ... talk to Keegan 
or whoever answers the phone.
CHECK IT OUT!
 Low SniMNT, Youth & 
Tiachir Airfmk 
 Eurail Pass 
Work A Study Amoad 
Procrams 
Languam Coursis Ovirsias 
 Intirnational Student ID 
 and Much Mori!
FRII " S row un ie87,Is 181CargM
118 Meyran Ave683-1881
In Celebration of Black History Month 
The Political Speakers Forum Board of CMU 
Presents
Blacks and Jews: 
Conflict and Coalescence
Dr. Cornel West
Author
Professor of Religion and Afro American Studies 
Princeton University
Wednesday, February 24, 1993 
8:00 pm 
Skibo Ballroom 
Carnegie Mellon University
Funded by the Student Activities Fee
IpM(t & Black Graduate Student Organization
maiMeet the challenge of NonStop Availability.
Information Session
March 2, Skibo Hall 
Room 105-106 
6:00pm - 8:00pm
On-Campus Interviews
March 3
NonStop Availability, the concept of a 
business-critical On-Line Transaction 
Processing system that never requires 
any scheduled downtime, forms the 
heart of Tandems plans for future 
product difference. Another important 
part of our future success is hiring inno
vative college graduates who can help us 
maintain our competitive edge in our 
ever expanding market.
Software Developers 
Software Engineers 
Software Technical Writers
Were looking for Bachelors, Masters and Phd grads in Computer 
Science or Software Engineering, as well as English majors in the 
Professional Writing or Technical Writing Programs with strong 
backgrounds in Computer Science. Tell us where you Want to go 
with your software development and technical writing ideas, and 
well match you with a challenge in areas like OLTP, fault-tolerance, 
RISC technology, POSIX, Common Communications platform, or 
NetWare.
Opportunities exist in Operating Systems, Compilers/Languages and 
Tools, Systems Software, NonStop SQL, and Data Communications/ 
Networking.
Ultimately, this is a chance to get your career off to a great start with 
Tandem, a company known for technical excellence. Stop by our 
Information Session for more details, and be sure to contact the 
Placement Office to sign-up on our interview schedule. If youre 
unable to attend, send your resume to: Tandem Computers 
Incorporated, Attn: College Relations, 10600 Ridgeview Court,
LOC: 229-17, Cupertino, CA 95014-0724. An equal opportunity 
employer.
POSIX is a trademark of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers, Inc. NetWare is a 
registered trademark of Novell, Inc.
F"NfTANDEM

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  22 February 1993L3
Police prevent crime
POLICE, from page LI
more careful and aware of crimes. 
Theres been a slow but steady decrease 
in crime, says LaPaglia. Much of the 
improvement comes as a result of 
securitys contacts with University Hous
ing.
Our RAs are our block captains for 
our crime watch program, says 
LaPaglia, and theres been at least a 20 
percent decrease in residential area 
theft.
The biggest crime problem on campus 
is still theft, however, the department 
charts an average of 30 thefts each month
 only 10 percent involving forced en
try. Thats just not taking precautions, 
says LaPaglia.
More thefts are occurring in campus 
libraries and offices, too.
The departments statistics for 1992 
have just been released, and crime rates 
are indeed going down at Carnegie 
Mellon. Burglary, larceny, motor vehicle 
theft, assaults, and disorderly conduct 
rates were lower last year than in the 
two years prior.
Liquor law violations are still a prob
lem on campus. The University of Pitts
burgh reported fewer liquor law viola
tions than Carnegie Mellon in 1991  
but that doesnt necessarily mean theres 
less drinking going on there. We take
more control over things like alcohol on 
the campus, says LaPaglia.
Last months rape on Frew Street has 
worried many students and faculty about 
safety and lighting on campus.
Campus Police has evaluated the lighting problem and are in the process of 
recommending changes to the adminis
tration. The city of Pittsburgh also in
vestigated the surrounding areas of 
Schenley Park and has cut back the 
shrubbery on the Schenley side of the 
street. Were patrolling farther into 
Schenley than ever before, says 
LaPaglia, adding that there is also con
cern over students parking on Circuit 
Drive in Schenley, where there is little 
lighting.
Campus Police and Student Senate 
are also working to get the SafeWalk 
proposal off the ground. The program 
would have specially-trained students 
working in teams of two, escorting stu
dents to and from all campus buildings 
to ensure their safety. Personally, Im 
very much in support of it, says 
LaPaglia. Id like to see it go. LaPaglia 
is in the process of meeting with Senior 
Vice President of Legal Affairs A1 
Brannick and Mike Herron, assistant 
treasurer. There are a lot of legal issues 
to take care of before we can get it out on 
campus, says LaPaglia.
Drivers concerned for safety
ESCORT, from page L:L
and Razum do admit that they will 
accommodate most peoples needs, be
cause even a group, may not be com
pletely safe.
Drivers at Escort are working to make 
the system more efficient. Berridge 
believes the training session is the best 
time to make drivers aware of their 
responsibility to students. Most of 
them are legitimately concerned... af
ter all, they are taking home their 
friends.
We can talk all we want at the train
ing, but experience is always the best 
way to learn. People learn in time how
to react and deal with certain situa
tions. We can tell them how important 
their job is, but they wont realize it for 
awhile." Berridge is also considering 
appointing an impartial observer to as
sure that drivers are carrying out their 
duties correctly.
Escortis also hoping to combine forces 
with the SafeWalk program to limit 
their number of on-campus runs. This 
way, less time could be spent driving 
around on campus, and in turn, those 
needing to go off campus would not 
have to wait as long.
A new van is also needed to replace 
the current one, but both Razum and
Berridge feel that one van is not enough 
to accommodate everyone. I dont spe 
us having more than one van for a long 
time, says Razum.
Razum and Berridge feel they are a 
big part of helping to improve campus 
security. I feel like Im helpingpeople, 
says Razum.
I would much rather be out there 
doing something challenging than 
stacking books in the library. Berridge 
agrees.
I dont want a woman to get as
saulted because she couldn't find a 
ride home. We can try to make sure 
they all get home safely," she says.
Columnist demystifies old campus layout
'SCHLAG, from page L2
temporary mens dorms, but from what 
Fenton says, that may not be the 
case.There were, however, some dorms 
built as temporary housing. During 
World War I, the campus was used to 
train men for the Army and Army Corps. 
There had to be place for all these guys 
to sleep, so between 1915 and 1918 seven 
dorms were built on what we now call 
the Hill  Boss, McGill, Henderson, 
Miller, Engelbrecht, Scobell and Welch. 
Designed by Henry Hornbostel, the
buildings were named after CIT graduInstitute, and some tidbits to send home 
ateskilledinW.W.I. Around 1960, Miller to the folks._______________________
Thus the architectural stories roll on, with a 
quick break for magazine reading.
and Engelbrecht were demolished to
make room for Hamerschlag House. wSylyU wN77' Nr y PhENsS tSsHhrrNsEyThus the architectural stories roll on, ISNThS Ils ushrE[T ,EuhSrTyEu Il' 
with a quick break for magazine readspIyN Iyr ,rT rs uyUE 7NTThS NE Last 
ing. Next week: the tilted square, Mellon of the Mohicans.
Write for 
FEATURES
Call Lauren or Andrew at x2111
Room Reservation Process
for 1993 - 94
Morewood Gardens Recreation Area
All current residents who would like to reserve a room in University 
Housing (including Oakland/Shadyside facilities) must participate in the Room 
Reservation Process conducted by the Housing OFfice during the First two weeks of 
March.
The Room Reservation Process has two stages:
PHASE 1 (March 2 - 4)
 Number Drawing
 Room reservation by students who plan to remain in their 
current rooms and designation of roommates by those students.
PHASE 2 (March 8-11)
 Room selection by all students choosing new rooms.
PHASE 1 SCHEDULE:________________________________________
Tuesday, March 2 - Current Freshman Residents
10:00am - 1:00pm Current Freshmen with last names A - K
2:00pm - 5:00pm Current Freshmen with last names L - Z
5:00pm - 6:00pm Alternate time for Current Freshmen
Wednesday, March 3 - Current Sophomore Residents
10:00am - 1:00pm Current Sophomores with last names A - K
2:00pm - 5:00pm Current Sophomores with last names L - Z
5:00pm - 6:00pm Alternate time for Current Sophomores
Thursday, March 4 - Current Junior Residents
10:00am - 1:00pm Current Juniors with last names A - K
2:00pm - 5:00pm Current Juniors with last names L - Z
5:00pm - 6:00pm Alternate time for Current Juniors
PHASE 2 SCHEDULE:
March 8, beginning at 3:00pm 
March 9, beginning at 3:00pm 
March 10, beginning at 3:00pm 
March 10, beginning at 3:00pm
Current Juniors in numerical order 
Current Sophomores in numerical order 
Current Freshmen numbers 1 - 350 
Current Freshmen numbers 351 - 1100
Residents reserving rooms may designate as roommates either any student who has paid 
a deposit or any freshman who pays an admissions deposit by May 1.
Once again, all current residents who wish to be considered for University Housing next 
year must participate in the Room Reservation process at the appropriate times and must sign a 
Housing Licenses Agreement.
THF AMERICAN UNIVERSITY
WASHINGTON DC 
Graduate Programs in Public Affairs
You can have an impact on public policy and gain a sense of accomplishment 
through graduate studies at The American University in Washington, D.C. 
Graduate programs in the School of Public Affairs offer you the opportunity to 
learn new management and research skills and to prepare for careers in a wide 
variety of government agencies and in private research, public advocacy, and 
professional organizations.
For more information, return the coupon or call (202) 885-2940 or 885-6201.
Please send information on the following School of Public Affairs programs:
? Political Science M.A. ? Ph.D. programs: Public Administra? Public Administration M.P.A. tion, Political Science, and Justice
? Justice M.S. ? J.D./M.S. in Justice
? Human Resource Development M.S.H.R. ? Undergraduate Degree Programs
Name _
Address_
City/State__ Zip Code_
Your Current School.
Mail to: School of Public Affairs, The American University 
4400 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20016-8022
An equal opportunity/affirmative action university
$3.99 Large
Plain Pizza
Everyday with coupon 
Pick-up only
 -I--
$2.00 off
Any Large 
Gourmet Pizza
Pick-up or Delivery
$5.99 Large
Plain Pizza
Everyday with coupon 
 Delivery or Pick-up
$1.50 off
Any Two 
Whole Hoagies
Delivery or Pick-up
Large Plain + 
1/2 Italian 
Hoagie 
& 2 Cokes
$9.95 plus tax 
_Deli_very_ _
$1.50 off
any Large Pizza
Delivery or Pick-up
1------------------------
2 MedPizzas + 1 
topping on each 
for $10.50
I plus tax
Delivery or Pick-up
$5.99 Large
Pepperoni Pizza
Delivery Only
T 'Hawaiian Pizza 
Special
$8.95 plus tax 
Delivery
 4..
Buy one Pizza 
get the same size 
Pizza FREE
Toppings Extra 
Pick-up only
Sm White Pizza 
& Tossed Salad
Only $4.99
Delivery or Pick-up
Free Topping
on any large pizza 
Delivery or Pick-up
Please mention coupons upon ordering. 
Coupons not valid with any other offer.
Free DeliveryPIZZA OUTLET
687-9555
190 N. Craig St.

---------------------------------------------------

WARNING:
Dont let yourself be beat up by a gang o homocidal psychotic druggie turnip molesters. Read the COMICS and learn to defend yourself.
I SHOULD BE DOING NW HOMEWORK. NOVI.
BOT TUE WM I \SXK AT 
ir, PLMlNG WTUESUOW 
IS A LOT MORE IMPORTANT.
CUT WERE Ift LEARNING REAL SK\US THAT I CAW APPLH TWROV)GHO\)T THE REST OF W( L\FE.
 WOToatMUfcuHxl tu Un<ul I
WCH ) PROCRASTINATINGas ? i U ratk>nm.izms.
IT MOST BE A fflUf/VANGEL! GENERALLY TOO BURN UP IN TOt ATMOSPHERE, - BUT TWS OUE APPARENTLY ! VAPORIZED ON IMPACT, f LEADING THIS ANGEL-SHAPED CRATtR IN THE SNOW/
\V
THERE ARE
ardf rufdTUERE
STRANGE THAT THERE WOULD BE Si MANY IN SUSIE'S FRONT YARD.
LOOK. AT THIS.' THIS IS THE BIGGEST SNOWBALL IN THE WORLD.
3^3 ^yW1y.. /WT/hwC Mnw ,GnlbnN 3tWW gn
HA UA.' I CANT vlA\T TO PLASTER SOMEBODY
MWBE 'ioO COULD PUi IT SOMEPLACE WHERE 50ME0HE WILL WALK
UFEMHLUjkotmfiG,
I COULD FLltJG aou ] 
OFF A CLlFf^
I'M NOT GOING TO DO TUI'S \ HOMEWORK.' CMON, LETS ) __ GO OUTSIDE \5 F
fi
NOBOW GWES \ DID N SEE. HOW ] THE EN ItEVE HIS VEINS / LIKE YOUR DAD. n THROBBED ? F
r~ j
Whats a Wendell? by Mall Goldberg
Part 3 of 8 
Andrew Plotkin (apli) 
Daniel Efran (deOt)

---------------------------------------------------

QCb 
\/v7bolwortR
(NSbHmsSPNgSSs
^PWii^ES^n
.ooKIfJS V&UW OhJIHt pwVLtKjLfc^MiJSHawmsfiESA f^uskup w ^ oNr3res ? 3llPmi\N, OeFENMoF
1 -i. ;
AMD SWEPmoN CfmTi0U5l_v B*cks 
fluns. BKBU.5C. ('T^SPa AMD ASiUtS A* Not-HIWGTO A Superueko UXrH ACorJCuM'oUAJpAFUu.-)I)4 CAST. ^----------------^
TartanCross iy jcffc Boats
Shown in Technicolor
(in 49 states and Guam.)
&wnC #5e
ACR/SSM/^Ns .i.bsb S.fy mnWawml5bw.mp2b MmwgmwnWa9bQunC Tw. rrrr3b &lnCas2HamlnWg plmWy4b Bac.mnWg mwmwas3A plmnW hmWa?5b Mnss FlamnWgs4Cmbla V Nayw.wk6b AlzaC., abgbs5gnW7b Tluwml .f .ss6/paWWass (Russb)8b RagmwClass .fs8Tw.mwamw9b ^gmy, Tnawwa?20Mu.ss0b &.wbyts .lC w..sy2sR.mC c.WCnyn.Wssb Cawaml plmWys22amsas7b Cmycg m ygnaf23Vawyabwmas9b Q1pawy26Tw.ywuCa22b Huwwy27Mw..p23b Mmla Caaw30Asyw.Wmuy CwnWk24b SknW3sHamCqumwyaws25b QWyawnWg32WfawynlnzaC aggs26b Naw Cnyy33F.wmncmwy wasnCaWy27b Subuwb .f NYC34QGawy28b Hmbnyuml35FwaWcg fwy (K)29b Q1pwass mwa36Qmwyg pwafn13sb Sgaap blamys37nbaymW .134b /blacy .f Cnsgusy383slmWC symya?35b Qunckly mppw.mcgaC39AffnwmmynGa38b mpnwa40H.y CwnWk39b Swaay p.ymy.as4siagaWCs40b /wWawy44AbsymnW4sb Qumwwal48Bmcks42b /pawm s.l.50Mysync43b Alcgamnsyts g.ml5sw.ubla44b amw52Sublay45b Cmw53Bwnynsg scg..l46b Twass54SmnCgaW47b Snsyaws55^gnwlwnWC49b Mwb R..saGaly56^amws
Dexter T. 
Kobayashi; :
Last Weeks Answers
GsSChbEE'NbsXMpnXiL>OET
"Y1E>EsTASEAENNb1t0VTRVbOt>&ESis)ER!'sN0MSM1Ca%bsf\iL>L0w0M%>L0T!sEe
XNeSbKI>AREA*ENSREi!s1NARc,,:\LES
h0Gng%h0Lkl1T"0VJES"0GREaE"pARESEEDENS
# & 

---------------------------------------------------

THE FAR SIDE By GARY LARSON
"Hey, Ruby! The circus is back in town! The Angry Young Pachyderms
Remember when we went last year and that clown 
asked you to smell his boutonniere?
Well, Douglas!... I noticed during the exam *0h, man. There you go again with another
your eyes werent exactly rotating this way and that. one of those hiss-and-tell books."
BY & b BRMQA
, 'OMaKATULATlO*^*
Ybu K///, X 
MAKE THESE LOO<bT35H?V^Cf KELTIbO$HlR5.
**YOU. MAY HAUT 
4LRE4?PV CV 
jt/OloooJo&c>
THIS IS A JOKE.RJGHT? 
RI6HT? HELLO?
D
tilfJOUJS 
INGE RVCI 
TGBNQA TM 
PLN'"suspensa. 
3
SIR. ? YOUR SOCIALWORKER'S HERE.
PO YOU HAVE 
A FRJENPWHCfP 
L/KETO RECEIVE 
OUR CATALOG?XNN,S3N STEsgg5:
SO HOW ABOUTIT, ).Z ? 
CANfOU
HOLCON,
leme
PNPA
aOO NEXT
HN_ TTJO-MDUR 
3 FECIAL >kl 7HET 
KMKl/OQ DP THE 
ELKI5 5WMP...
,400 KtO,THf 
OOKLP iOa !.Bf5
/inb
 UAMA &. AQT 
CHQCK MV QM4ib
SO WHAT PO YOU 
SAY, ZONK? 6EB.I 
CAN YOU HUP DON'T MOW, 
MB OUT? CORNELL...
I'VE NEVER ACTUALLY KNOWN 
ANY PEAL PEALERS. I'VE 
ALWAYS PEPENPEP ON THE 
OF STRANGERS...
heuo. hiuer-conhely uwtneRyry )serBySvMAIk)-nfAHC. K*C fcAWl*. Fstpr AFTSAUOOU, rioFESteft^Nrti mo - mere wylBT TRo"" ByS 9ya9Te 
-T^LV.4 TO ;PWV<>tOE. >
'M4 Trt*T,'uEU, BE 
Poutf
I HWE EKEK6tHC*(?
'Hty i tmu'T mk this )sNS i iri 
BfH 6fWl>' BUA* ffit, , 
*!(> t*ovJ ITi Hut.fl TUIS is/ 
\h> QoaKoMo/
W 3.^.1
'llttE^ Wf DofJ'T HM/ trit V
TIh to RmJ Mtouwt to VwR 
, Pw>M E\**VTlMf OHE 6F
s w.sas nW Hf y
V piaster!
ifWt A f1*t IK) M
T hoar t '/up. 
CRIING, EHT,vnpic wtii; EWER6EMC/
50 THAT'S THE PEAL, 
UNCLE PUKE -WE'RE 
TRYING 10 HELPAIPS 
miENTS. CAN YOU 
HELP US OUT?
ANYWAY, LAST NIGHT I ^ 
WOKSOME OF PUKE'S 
STASH ANP SENT T OFF TO 
YOU. I HOPE IT HELPS.
HONEY,
THAT'S
wfaB[
v 83-3 13\[3 ^ 0/? yet/
ZObiKER? HI. 
ITS HONEY.
HEY, 
HONEY, 
WHATS 
f UP?
She was known as Madame DGizarde, and, 
in the early 40s, she used deceit, drugs and 
her beguiling charms to become the bane 
of chicken farmers everywhere.
O 1987 FwWorts. Inc/tMUitmttd &/ UmtiHl Pitti 5|tiW __
34ov Ny uyc CcNa afHTd TpTHuafIoE ayETafTHw $$ 
6eafTdNi e tyNNT IN NyPTafIoE uyc fepT ay organize.
SIR? ARB 
YOU MISSING 
A
LAST IHEARP. BUT I'M NOT SURE WHETHER HE'S 
STILL INVOLVED WITH 
PRUGS...
-tR/NGIf  RING'S ? RING'S 
iRJNGH  RING'S -RJNG/ 
RING.'f 1RJNGH iRINOIc 
-:RJN6!i <RJN6H -.PJNG.'S 
iRJNGH iRJ6!i iRINGn -) ) RJNGH PJN6/; r~/ ^jT 'T
eafadeteu^
H3UO ? WHAT?
PIP I SAY WERE
SOMETHING? INLUCK! 
FORET IT!
LET ME h ASK YOU m curr 
] SOMETHING, 3 3 5HOOrNEPHEW.
I JUST HOPE HE GOT MY ORPER RJGHT. 
HE SOU N PEP 
OUTOFTT...
FEDER
By GARY LARSONTHE FAR SIDE
I PUN NO, A 
TON MAYBE. HE 
WON'T MISS/T. 
/UM...WHAT
ICOULPNT HELP LISTENING 
IN ON YOUR CONVERSATION 
WITH PUKE THE OTHER PAY. I 
THINK ITS GREAT 
YOU WANT TO 
HELP PEOPLE 
WHO ARB 
SUFFERJNG.

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
Tartuffe creates laughter at Kresge
By TINA L. URSO
BySTyE LN1hSrNsEr fuNTsS
The Drama Department made 
grand entrance this past week
end with the opening of Molires 
ByST,HHh4 one of this semesters 
major performances, leaving au
dience members laughing all the 
way out of Kresge theatre. Di
rected by internationally-renowned director Mladen Kiselov, 
this years production promised, 
according to associate head of 
drama Don Marinelli, to be the 
first American performance ofthe 
translation which follows the 
original meaning and rhythm of 
the play.... Truly Molire at his 
best! It certainly seems as though 
this promise was fulfilled with 
this weekends performance.
Molires most controversial 
play, ByST,HHh was written by com
mission of King Louis XIV as a 
present to his mistress, Louise de 
la Valliere. However, its rather 
open attack on the church led to it
being banned at the insistence of 
the Kings mother and the reli
gious party she protected. It was 
not allowed to play until several 
years later, after the death of the 
QueenMother, whenMoli&re con
ceded to add a tributary mono
logue to Louis at the end. ByST,HHh 
as we now know it is an example 
of Moliferes great ability to be 
able to create worthy satire even 
within the constraints the King 
put upon him.
Although the plot is set in 
Moliferes time of monarchy and 
mistresses, its theme is a univer
sal one of hypocrisy masquerad
ing as virtue. The story focuses 
on the Pemelle family, consist
ing of Madame Pemelle (Melissa 
Papp, senior drama), her son 
Orgon (Michael Messer, senior 
drama), his wife Elmire (Melissa 
Bell, seniordrama), and their two 
children, Mariane (Kali Rocha, 
senior drama) and Damis (Aaron 
Harpold, senior drama), and how 
their lives become almost inex
tricably intertwined with the vir
tuous Tartuffe (Rik Nagel, se
nior drama).
Near the beginning of the play 
we become aware that almost 
everyone despises this Tartuffe 
and the incredible influence he 
seems to have on the entire house
hold. Almost everyone, that is, 
except for Orgon, the head of the 
household, and his mother. Orgon 
worships thegroundthatTartuffe 
walks on because he believes him 
to be the most virtuous and godly 
man alive, and allows himself 
and his household to be held hos
tage to Tartuffes whims.
This blind obsession becomes 
clearest when Orgon comes home 
from a trip away from the house, 
and begins to ask Dorine (Emily 
Winslow, senior drama), the 
maid, aboutwhathappened while 
he was away. She begins to tell 
him of his wifes illness and re
covery, but he is concerned only 
with how all of the events Dorine 
is recounting have affected poor
boy" Tartuffe. Dorine becomes 
aware of her master's disposition 
and plays along brilliantly.
Cleante (Maduka Steady, se
nior drama), a household friend, 
is much less patient with Orgons 
blindness, and decides he must 
tell him about what he sees as the 
false piety of Tartuffe. What en
sues is a brilliant interplay be
tween Steady and Mess eras their 
characters shout back and run 
around the stage, arguing about 
the credibility of Tartuffes vir
tue. Cleantescaseisinvain, how
ever, because Orgon seems en
tirely obsessed with the vision of 
Tartuffe as a saint.
We see Orgons commitment to 
Monsieur Tartuffe come to a cli
max when he sits down to have a 
seemingly rational conversation 
with his timid daughter Mariane, 
and ends up suggesting that she 
marry Tartuffe, instead of her 
beloved fiance Valere (Allen 
Middleton, senior drama), whom 
Orgon has already promised she
could marry. This presents 
Mariane with a terrible dilemma, 
because she despises Tartuffe and 
loves Valere, but is too meek to 
stand up to her father. Dorine, 
eavesdropping behind the door, 
comes to her defense when she 
hears this ridiculous proposition, 
and decides to tell Orgon exactly 
what she thinks of it. Winslow 
pulls off a hilariously wonderful 
performance in this scene as the 
housemaid who doesnt mince 
words with anyone and finds it 
impossible not to talk.
In another amusing scene, 
Dorine forces Mariane and Valere 
to settle their argument. This 
scene brings amusing perfor
mances from all three actors, cul
minating in a passionate love hold 
between Mariane and Valere that 
Dorine manages to get caught 
right in the middle of.
In all the hilarity that carries 
on in most of the first act, Tartuffe 
is just an entity that manifests 
himself through the words of the
other characters. Towards the end 
of this act, we finally get to see 
him in person, and all ofthe build 
up to this moment makes it all 
the more effective. In sharp con
trast to the bright and decorative 
costumes and fluffy wigs of hair 
worn by all of the other charac
ters, Tartuffe makes his grand 
entrance onto the stage dressed 
in very plain, grey, and almost 
puritan-looking clothes, and very 
simple straight-combed hair. He 
is followed by his lackey, who is 
dressed in almost exactly the 
same maimer.
The seriousness of the scene is 
broken up by the entrance of 
Dorine, whom Tartuffe immedi
ately orders, in horror, to cover 
her breasts with his handker
chief. Amused to see the human 
weakness of temptation in 
Tartuffe, Dorine exits the stage 
to let Elmire come in. In this 
scene we see just how full of hu
man weakness Tartuffe is, as he 
.STeNT NTT 5405xLLi teET WWinners are predicted for the upcoming Oscar awards
By ANDI FRANCIONI
BySTyE PTyHHISNThS
Oscar sent a message to Hollywood 
this year. He largely ignored the grand 
epics Hollywood produces in favor of 
inexpensive but well-made independent 
films. Blh bS'NEp wyUh and )sIySuAr 
fEu both received several nominations, 
including Best Picture.
a chI wssu hE4 the type of film the 
Acadamy usually favors, only received a 
handful of nominations and only one in 
the major acting categories. The
Acadamys frustration with American 
films is shown in the Best Supporting 
Actress nominationsonly one actress, 
Marisa Tomei, is from the United States.
I have been seriously following the 
Oscar race ever since Billy Crystal made 
the ceremony fun to watch. As a film 
student, I try to match my predictions 
against the professional critics each year.
When LyEghr INTl xs-1hr swept the 
awards, the predicting was easy. This 
year, without one blockbuster picture, it 
is difficult.
Here are the nominees and my choices 
for the winners:
Supporting Actor 
Jaye Davidson, Blh bS'NEp wyUh 
Gene Hackman, "FEHsSpN1hE 
Jack Nicholson, a chI wssu hE 
A1 Pacino, w-hEpySS' w-hE srr 
David Paymer, S5 PyT,Suy' dNplT 
MY CHOICE: Jack Nicholson
Anyone who saw a chI wssu hE 
cannot deny Jack Nicholson the Oscar 
for his performance. He practically de
mands it.
Supporting Actress 
Judy Davis, ),r7yEur yEu xN1hr 
Joan Plowright, fEglyEThu atSNVanessa Redgrave, )sIySuAr fEu 
Miranda Richardson, LyUyph 
Marisa Tomei, ' bs,rNE ONEE' 
MY CHOICE: Miranda Richardson 
Though I would love to see the only 
person I have ever seen upstage Joe 
Pesci, Marisa Tomei, win, I have to choose 
Miranda Richardsdn. She gave great 
performances in three films this year 
CLyUyph, fEglyEThu atSN-, and Blh 
bS'NEp wyUh* and could have been nomi
nated for any one of them.
Actor
Robert Downey, Jr., blyt-NE 
Clint Eastwood, EHsSpN1hE
A1 Pacino, PghET sH y xsUyE 
Stephen Rea, Blh bS'NEp wyUh 
Denzel Washington, y-gs-U " 
MY CHOICE: A1 Pacino 
Pacino now has eight nominations and 
no wins. Its time.
Actress
Catherine Deneuve, iEusglNEh 
Mary McDonnell, MyrrNsE cNrl 
Michelle Pfeiffer, ns1h cNh-u 
Susan Sarandon, nsShE<sAr .NEmma Thompson, )sIySuAr fEu 
MY CHOICE: Susan Sarandon 
Its the year after Blh-Uy yEu ns,Nrh4 
and Oscar has to stretch to find five Best 
Actress nominees. Hollywood still re
fuses to make many films with strong 
female roles.
This race is between Sarandon and 
Thompson and both gave Oscar-worthy 
performances. Though Thompson won 
the Golden Globe and several critics
awards, I choose Sarandon because Os
car has a memory. The Academy wont 
forget Sarandon did not receive the 
award that she deserved for Blh-Uy yEu 
ns,Nrh5
Director
Neil Jordan, Blh bS'NEp wyUh 
James Ivory, )sIySuAr fEu 
Robert Altman, Blh M-y'hS 
Martin Brest, PghET sH y xsUyE 
Clint Eastwood, EHsSpN1hE 
MY CHOICE: Neil Jordan 
The two glaring omissions hero are 
Spike Lee y-gs-U "* and Rob Reiner 
.STeNT NTT 7nB40ni teET W
Fulton, Rosebud host evening of art
By TINA L. URSO
BySTyE LN1hSrNsEr fuNTsS
This past Saturday night the Fulton Theater 
downtown and Rosebud in the Strip District cohosted a four-part evening of events to celebrate 
the arts in Pittsburgh, that focused mostly on 
J.S.G. Boggs, controversial artist and fellow of 
art and ethics at CMU. One of the main events 
was the Pittsburgh premiere of a BBC documen
tary entitled 
Blh sEh' 
D yE4 about 
> art, 
authenticlooking dollar 
bills with 
slight varia
tions such as 
Baying Willie 
McKinley or 
This note 
iegal art.
The event 
was meant to 
benefit the 
Role Models 
Program, 
which helps 
children from 
the Hill Dis
trict, and 
Save The 
Brew House.
The set of 
events was to 
startoffatthe 
Fulton The
atre withhors 
oeuvres 
hosted by 
Royal Lewis, 
following 
were to be 
^0 of Philip
Kerry Hagan/Tartan Photographer 
k,n,, yEENi rTSSyd yr eHa eov TafIhN ea B6xi TltSeIoN ay afT 
LcSayo 5fTeaHT hHydv dfu afTIH PyoTu fev ay gT HTacHoTv,
documentaries, the first a short doc
umentary about well-known British performance
artists Gilbert and George and the second Blh ------- ?  ----sy----,-----
sEh' yE5 Boggs was to speak before and after many authorities consider highly illegal.
performing and Boggs as guest speaker. Three 
new performance art works were to follow: 
Michael Pestels Ornithology, Andrea 
Hudnicks Welcome to Arbys, and finally 
Boggs own The Magic Money Machine. 
Entrance to all events could be obtained by 
sending in a $100 donation prior to the event, or 
could be payed for individually at the door. 
Guests who sent in $100 would receive an au
thentic $100 Boggs Bill by the end of the evening.
Most events 
went according to 
plan. However, 
Boggs revealed 
some news prior to 
the showing of his 
movie that ex
plained why one of 
the events, the 
champagne buffet, 
had to be cancelled 
for the evening. 
According to 
Boggs, 76 people 
sent in a check for 
$100, but all ofthe 
money had to be 
returned. Because 
payment for the 
event had been so
licited by U.S. 
mail, and payment 
was sent through 
the mail as well, 
Boggs said that 
this amount-ed to 
mail fraud. He ex
pressed concern 
for the 76 people 
who sent the 
money in, saying 
they could be pros
ecuted along with 
him for an illegal 
transaction, and 
he did not want to involve others that far. The 
transaction would be illegal because guests 
would be buying a Boggs Bill, an act that
toe films. After they finished, events were set to 
continue for the second half of the evening at 
Rosebud.
The Rosebud half was to be kicked off with a 
C>ampagne buffet with the Rodney McCoy Trio
Boggs expressed his deep regret that The 
Brew House and the Role Models program would 
now not receive any benefit money from the 
evenings events, saying, I dont believe in my 
heart that the consequence of art is a bad thing.
Two new Haas films play at Filmmakers
By TINA L.URSO
BySTyE LN1hSrNsEr fuNTsS
Two men with bronze-and-silver-painted faces 
in grey suits walk into a quiet antiseptic-looking 
museum hall, swinging their canes as a room full 
of spectators look on. A silver-painted hand presses 
play on a tape recorder, and the two men climb onto 
a small wooden table in the middle of the gallery 
hall. As the music (some oldEnglish tune'probably 
out of the 40s) begins to play, the two men start to 
sing and very slowly turn around in circles as they 
somewhat restrictedly move to the music, never 
looking at one another until the song finishes. 
After its over, one of them steps down off the table, 
rewinds the tape, presses play, and the whole 
things starts all over again.
Sound pretty exciting? Well, if you go to see 
Philip Haas new documentary wN-7hST yEu whsSph4 
youd better get used to it because he keeps show
ing it over and over and over and... well, I guess you 
get the general idea.
The movie is about well-known British perfor
mance artists Gilbert and George. Gilbert and 
George have been doing performance art since the 
1960s, when similar art was relatively new and not 
well-known at all. They started performance art 
because they both wanted to be artists, but they 
couldnt afford a studio. They created a piece called 
The Singing Sculpture, which they've dedicated 
their lives to and have been performing ever since. 
This year is the 20th anniversary of The Singing 
Sculpture, likely Haas motivation for making the 
documentary.
The first five minutes of the film is very tedious 
and seems quite boring. Haas keeps showing Gil
bert and George performing their piece in the 
gallery, interspersing performances with Gilbert 
and George standing against a bland background 
talking about the history and motivation behind 
their work. Blah blah blah and so on and so on, 
right?
Well, something strange happens after about the 
first five minutes, not to the film itself really but to 
you as you view it. Maybe its because Gilbert and 
Georges explanations for their work actually be
gin to make sense. They say We are disturbed and 
desperate people.... The main subject of the sculp
ture is being miserable," and that they want a 
democratic art that is able to reach all people.
The point of their sculpture is not just to watch it 
once; you have to watch it a whole bunch of times 
to really get a feel for what they mean. By about the 
seventh time I saw the sculpture in action I began 
to see how it was really a lot like most peoples lives.
I really started to watch the two men and the 
expressions they made. And then I realized how 
brilliant Haas presentation of the film was, be
cause it really captured Gilbert and Haas work 
well. Although Im generally not bigon desperation 
themes, there was enough humor in Gilbert and 
Georges commentary that it didnt manage to bog 
me down and make me want to jump out the 
window.
If you want to see a really interesting art film, 
make sure you catch wN-7hST yEu whsSph5 And 
besides, if you go to see Blh sEh' yE4 you dont 
really haye much of a choice, except to maybe show 
up late. So you may as well make the beBt of it. 
Besides, its only 20 minutes long. Im sure it will 
at least be worth your time.
Proving himself able to adapt well to subject 
matter, Haas makes a break from the minimalist 
documentary style found in wN-7hST yEu whsSph 
with Blh sEh' yE4 choosing instead to follow a 
much more straightforward, chronological style of 
filmmaking.
Blh sEh' yE centers around the life and art 
of J.S.G. Boggs, controversial artist who makes 
authentic-looking, one-sided dollar bills with slight 
personal touches to make it fairly obvious that they 
arent actual U.S. currency. Boggs has made bills of 
other foreign currency as well. Although Boggs has 
been charged with counterfeiting in the U.K, Aus
tralia, and, most recently, the U.S., hes had a 
tradition ofgettingoutofthese charges. Thecharges 
against him were dropped in Britain, and he actu
ally received damages when he won his case in 
Australia. It was not until several years ago that he 
actually ran into any real problems when the U.S. 
Treasury charged him with counterfeiting and 
confiscated some of his bills that he sent them for 
inspection.
The film focuses on this recent incident and how 
Boggs goes about getting the bills back. It also 
shows Boggs trying to get different businesses and 
people in Pittsburgh and Washington, D.C. to 
accept his own handmade currency as being equally 
worthy as actual U.S. currency. The camera fol
lows Boggs into an art Btore where he bargains 
with the manager until he decides tp barter a $400 
Boggs Bill for $100 worth of art supplies. It also 
follows him as he tries to convince a sympathetic 
but reluctant bank employee to let him deposit two 
of his bills in a D.C. bank, which he fails to do.
Boggs explains in the movie how one of his works 
of art is incomplete until he is actually able to use 
it as currency to buy something. It is his purpose to 
make us question why we value one piece of paper 
.STeNT NTT 7ni teET W

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  22 February 1993
Thursday, February 25
Rashomon
This 1950 Japanese film won the Best Foreign 
Film Oscar when it came out. Directed by interna
tionally acclaimed Akira Kurosawa, Rashomon is a 
classic film in the best sense of the term. Remember 
the Magnum P.I. episode when the restaurant gets 
robbed and each of the people there tells their own 
story of what happened and nobody can agree? Or 
how about the same kind of episode in just about 
every television series thats been on? Well, that all 
started with Rashomon, and it was done right in 
the original. The story is of a bandit who attacks a 
husband and wife while they are traveling through 
the forest. The husband ends up dead in the end. 
Each of the characters testifies giving their own 
version of the story, even the husband whose ghost 
is summoned back. Kurosawa presents a visually 
intriguing film of the nature of reality and truth.
Toshiro Mifune, the celebrated Japanese actor, 
stars as the bandit and gives a wild performance, 
spitting and growling at the other characters. Also 
staring are Machiko Kyo and Masayuki Mori. In 
Japanese with English subtitles.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Friday, February 26
Saturday Night Fever
Ahhhh ... the 70s! Polyester bellbottoms, gold 
chains on hairy chests, the Bee Gees, and John 
Travolta. What more could you ask out of life?
Well, for the low low price of one dollar, you can 
get all this and more this Friday night. Travolta 
stars as an angst-ridden Brooklyn teenager who 
loves to dance and dreams of getting out of the 
neighborhood.
Although director John Badham attempts to 
create a serious movie about the problems of teens 
in Brooklyn, the years since its creation have proved 
it to be far too dated to take seriously. After all, how 
are you supposed to take Travolta seriously when 
hes wearing four-inch platform shoes and has the 
Bee Gees for mood music?
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Saturday, February 27
Casablanca
Casablanca, a true cinema classic, just celebrated 
its 50th anniversary this past year. Humphrey 
Bogart, Ingrid Bergman, Paul Henreid, Claude 
Rains, Dooley Wilson, Peter Lorre, and Sydney 
Greenstreet star in this black and white World War 
II film.
A story of impossible romance, features Bogart 
as cynical night club owner Rick and Bergman as 
his lost love Ilsa. Ilsas husband (Henreid) compli
cates matters as an exiled resistance leader hiding 
from the Nazis. As a result of Ricks influence over 
the local police chief, played by Rains, he ends up 
being the only one who can save Ilsas husband.
Hear As Times Goes By played again by 
Wilsons Sam.
Winner of three Oscars for Best Picture, Best 
Director, and Best Screenplay, Casablanca is a 
dont-miss film, well worth your buck.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Sunday, February 28
Ten Tigers from Kwangtung
This 1983 Shaw brothers film promises intense, 
bone crushing Kung-Fu action. Ten Tigers from 
Kwangtung without a doubt involves a plot based 
on revenge for the killing of someones father or 
teacher, lots of wacky sound effects, creative edit
ing, bad dubbing, and, of course, endless fight 
scenes strung together by a plot that becomes 
increasingly difficult to follow as it progresses. 
Made in Hong Kong, the film stars Chiang Chen, 
Alexander Fu Sheng, Wang Li, and Lung TienSheng. If you liked last semesters Five Deadly 
Venoms, youll most likely appreciate this hefty 
slab of hot buttered kung-fu.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
By BRYAN LASLEY, CHAD McDANIEL, and 
TINAL. URSO
CINEMA SCOPE
Beehive Forbes Ave.
National Lampoon's Loaded 
Weapon I
(Monday through Thursday, 9 
pm)
The National Lampoons folks 
are back yet again, with another 
sure-to-be-silly spoof film.
Squirrel Hill Cinema World Forward Ave.
Homeward Bound
(Monday, 12:45, 2:25, 4:05, 
5:45, 7:25, 9:10 pm; Tuesday 
through Thursday, 5:45, 7:25, 
9:10 pm)
Disney studios bring us the 
story of Shadow, Chance, and 
Sassy, two dogs and a cat, who 
are separated from their human 
family, and have to travel back 
home.
As they journey through the 
wild, they offer their thoughts to 
the audience via voice-overs. 
Animals voices provided by 
Michael J. Fox, Sally Field, and 
Don Ameche.
The Vanishing
(Monday, 1, 3:10, 5:15, 7:35, 
9:45 pm; Tuesday throughThursday, 5:15, 7:25, 9:35 pm)
Jeff Harriman is driven to find 
the answer to his former 
girlfriends mysterious disap
pearance three years ago. Stars 
Jeff Bridges, Kiefer Sutherland, 
and Nancy Travis.
A Few Good Men
(Monday, 1:50,4:30,7:15,9:55 
pm; Tuesday andThursday, 4:30, 
7:15,9:55 pm)
Two Marines are courtmartialed for murder in this Rob 
Reiner adaptation of the Andrew 
Sorkln Broadway play.StarsTom 
Cruise, Demi Moore, and Jack 
Nicholson.
The Crying Game
(Monday through Thursday, 
5:35, 7:45, 9:50 pm)
Film about an IRA terrorist and 
the person he holds hostage.
The Manor Murray Ave.
(full listing was not available at 
time of printing, please contact 
theatre for complete listing of 
times)
Sommersby 
Set in the Civil War, follows the 
story of Jack Sommersby (Rich
ard Gere) as he returns home 
several years after he is presumed 
dead.
Although he is able to bring his 
town back to prosperity and turn 
his previously bitter marriage into 
a passionate romance, doubts 
begin to arise that he may not be 
the man he claims to be.
Scent of a Woman
Starring Al Pacino as an exArmy lieutenant who spends 
Thanksgiving weekend with a 
young scholarship student (Chris 
O'Donnell).
The Temp
Timothy Hutton stars as a man 
who hires a temp secretary 
(played by Lara Flynn Boyle), a 
decision he soon comes to re
gret.
The Cemetery Club
Three late middle-aged Jewish 
women who cope with the suc
cessive deaths of their husbands 
with friendship and love as they 
start to date again. Filmed mostly 
In Pittsburgh.
Filmmakers at the Fulton
101 Sixth St., Downtown
The Money Man
(Monday through Thursday, 8 
pm)
Pittsburgh premiere of this BBC 
documentary aboutJ.S.G. Boggs, 
fellow of art and ethics at CMU, 
and his accurate-looking papermoney art. Director Philip Haas 
gives us a humorous look at 
Boggs' life, as he tries to offer his 
paper money for goods and ser
vices, and as he gets in trouble 
with Treasuiy officials.
The Pittsburgh Playhouse 222 Craft Ave.
Indochine
(Monday through Thursday, and 
Sunday, 7 pm; Friday and Satur
day, 7, 9 pm)
Catherine Deneuve stars in this 
film about Frances slipping hold 
on French Indochina (now Viet
nam) in the '30s and '40s. Fur
ther complicating the storyline 
is the relationship between 
Camille, her adopted mother, 
and a French naval officer whom 
they both love. The National Film 
Board of Reviews choice for 
1992 Best Foreign Film, and offi
cial French entry for the 1992 
Academy Awards.
By TINAL. URSOThe Money Man, Gilbert & George take artistic look at life
Writer picks 
winners for 
the Oscars
7nB40ni rHyP WV
(A chI wssu hE*5 Lee may 
never receive the recognition 
he deserves; the Acadamy has 
continually snubbed him. 
Reiner appears to be the vic
tim of too many good choices 
in the same year.
Wouldnt it be great to see 
Clint Eastwood win this one? 
Still, I think Neil Jordan will 
get it for the incredible Blh 
bS'NEp wyUh5
Best Picture
Blh bS'NEp wyUh
a chI wssu hE
)sIySu A r fEu
PghET sH y xsUyE
EHsSpN1hE
MY CHOICE: Blh bS'NEp 
wyUh
Blh bS'NEp wyUh proved 
that a film does not need to 
have a 50 million dollar bud
get to be good.
I think this film will change 
the way Hollywood films are 
made .
This years Academy 
Awards^will be historic. The 
film industry will still make 
its grand blockbusters, but 
smaller films will also have 
their chance.
Perhaps the Western will 
have a comeback since 
EHsSpN1hE did well at the box 
office and in these nomina
tions.
Most importantly, Holly
wood will be looking for films 
of quality.
Everyone, from screen
writers to actors to moviego
ers, will benefit from the 
change.
7ni rHyP WV
whose illustration was hand 
crafted by an artist (which U.S. 
currency really is, though we 
often tend to forget) is more valu
able than another. He believes 
such a question is particularly 
relevant in this day and age 
where most of our money is 
transacted completely electroni
cally, where we never actually 
see any of this thing we value as 
money.
One of hiB triumphs by the 
end of the film is the transaction 
he makes at a hotel in D.C., 
which ends up being completely 
finished. On the wall of the hotel 
currently hangs his piece in full, 
as he likes his works to be dis
played when they are finished. 
His Boggs Bill is framed on the
wall next to the bill, the receipt, 
and the change he received from 
the transaction, which all hang 
in their own individual frame.
Haas documentary is fairly 
interesting and informative, al
though it does, at points, seem 
manipulated and contrived. 
Boggs tries to dismiss such criti
cism by saying that most normal 
people dont feel entirely com
fortable when put in front of a 
camera. However, several scenes 
seem almost as if they were reen
actments of what actually hap
pened when the camera was off, 
because the people seemed like 
they were acting out parts in a 
play (the restaurant scene at the 
beginning is a particularly stark 
example of this).
Then Boggs tries to make the
claim that prospective partici
pants in transactions actions 
were not affected in the least by 
the presence of the camera. Al
though I think that most of the 
transactions that took place 
would probably have occurred re
gardless of the camera, the 
cameras presence was undoubt
edly an influence in at least several of the transactions, because 
it tends to lend authority to Boggs, 
because he walks in somewhere! 
with a camera.
All in all, however, the film was 
worth its money. If youre inter
ested in learning about the life of 
an artist exploring new bound
aries, I recommend this film as 
thinking experience.
Student / Faculty
DISCOUNT AIRFARES 
TO EUROPE
Forbes Travel 
521-7300
g,l,fcBf mBnufdcn-'
a;f a PMnaP) 3 Ba;f a bnaPP$ 
DUQUESNES 1993 SUMMER SCHEDULE OFFERS: 
TRANSFERABLE COURSES*
?START DATES MAY THRU JULY* 
?ACCELERATED SESSIONS*
Ask about our wide variety of Science Courses, 
Language Courses, and Trips!
Registration is EASY - 
by FAX, phone, mail, or in person 
INTERESTED? CALL 1-800-283-3853 
for your complete 
SUMMER 1993 INFORMATION PACKAGE
mn
Oi!EddtorIni ChefiMah g BMIEa ussN-w g Music .EI-FdMI
This weekends guest Conductor Charles Dutoit tells why hes so 
excited to conduct twelve-year-old violin sensation Sarah Chang at 
the Pittsburgh Symphony:
Shes very 
exceptional. 
Everyone is in 
agreement 
saying she is one 
of the most 
incredible 
talents we have 
known for a very 
long time.
This weekend, witness this amazing phenomenon when Sarah 
Chang makes her Heinz Hall debut, performing Lalos delightful 
Symphonie espagnole.
Friday, Feb. 26, 8:00 p.m. Saturday, Feb. 27, 8:00 p.m. 
Sunday, Feb. 28, 2:30 p.m.
CHARLES DUTOIT, conductor SARAH CHANG, violin
BERLIOZ Overture to Benvenuto Cellini, Op. 23 LAL0 Symphonie espagnole for Violin and Orchestra 
SHOSTAKOVICH Symphony No. 15 in 
B major, Op. 141
Saturday, Post-concert: "Symphony and Swing," Big Band dancing in Heinz Hall Lobby. 
Sunday, 1:30 p.m.: "Inside the Music," musical discussion with Resident Staff Conductor 
Barbara Yahr, from the Heinz Hall stage.
can 392-4900
Or visit the Heinz Hall Box Office.
Tickets: $14-$35
Student and Senior Rush: S10. 
one hour prior to performance, with I.D.
USAir is the official airline of the Pittsburgh Symphony. Guest artist transportation provided by 
Mercedes-Benz of North America, Inc. WQED-FM/89.3 is the Voice of the Pittsburgh Sympnoi y 
Friday is Mine Safety Appliances Company Night and 
Saturday is Contraves USA Night at the Symphony.
Student Rush Tickets Available!Only $10
Bring your student ID to the Heinz Hall Box Office ONE HOUR before 
the concert and get a regularly priced ticket for just ten bucks, 
(seats subject to availability)

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  22 February 1993L9
Well known director brings life to Tartuffe
TARTUFFE, from L7
proceeds to crawl across his bed 
and proposition his providers 
wife. Nagel proves in this scene 
that he is more than capable to 
carry off the intriguing duality of 
his role. The use of an entirely 
mirrored background for this 
scene lends an added element of 
anticipation.
Damis breaks this anticipation 
by jumping out of his hiding place 
to catch Tartuffe in an act of hy
pocrisy, and then calling in his 
father to see with his own eyes 
what has happened. Damis is ec
static over having found Tartuffes hypocrisy out, and having 
proof to show his father.
His triumph is broken, how
ever, as Tartuffe, with some slick 
false groveling to Orgon, man
ages to convince his benefactor 
that its really Damis who is in 
the wrong because hes falsely 
slanderingTartuffes piety. Orgon 
becomes so overcome with his 
renewed faith in Tartuffes vir
tue that he disowns his son and
decides to sign all of his money 
and belongings over to him.
At this point in the CMU pro
duction, there is a break for in
termission, after which all of the 
characters come back dressed 
now in modem dress, instead of 
the frilly costumes and wigs of 
the previous part.
In this part, Cleante unsuccess
fully tries to talk Orgon out of the 
contract he has just made with 
Tartuffe, and Orgon tries to force 
Mariane into signing the wed
ding contract.
Elmire becomes so upset with 
Orgon that she vows to prove the 
craftiness of Tartuffe once and 
for all before Orgons eyes and 
ears. Finally, Orgon believes her 
when he, conveniently hidden 
under a table, witnesses Tartuffe 
almost attacking his wife to sati
ate his impure, selfish desires. 
Orgon immediately orders 
Tartuffe to leave his household 
and never come back.
This ends up being a huge mis
take, however, as Tartuffe is now
owner of Orgons property, and 
immediately evicts the Pemelle 
household from their former 
home.
Then, in what is very obviously 
the ending that Molire added 
after the Queen Mother's death, 
one of the Kings officers (John 
Hollywood) makes a grand en
trance with white wig and yellow 
frills from head to toe, a costume 
that appears hilariously out of 
place next to the modern-day cos
tumes worn by the rest ofthe cast 
at this point.
The officer proceeds to give a 
tribute to the King, with a won
derful comic flair as he dances 
and pirouettes around the stage. 
Everyone kisses the Kings feet, 
and then.changes costume for a 
big wedding party. This ending 
proves to be the most amusing 
part of the play, and kept me 
laughing about it even after I 
had left Kresge.
One interesting addition to the 
play is a percussionist, who of
fers accompaniment throughout
the performance. This accompa
niment works very well in some 
scenes, especially the comic ones, 
but ends up seeming superfluous 
in others, particularly the bell 
tones that sound when charac
ters say certain things. It is clear 
that this bell tone is supposed to 
signify something, but what it is 
never ends up being quite clear.
The costumes and stage sets 
were interesting as well. The sim
plicity of the sets worked per
fectly, and their easy mobility 
lent a nice fluidity to the whole 
performance, where it was quite 
hard to tell where one scene ended 
and the next one began. This flu
idity was nice in comparison to 
the obvious scene changes that 
often occur when watching a stage 
performance.
ByST,HHh will be playing at 
Kresge Theatre through Satur
day, March 6. Ticket prices are 
$5 for students and senior citi
zens, and $10 for everyone else. 
Call the box office at x2407 for 
more details.Whizzer makes audience weep in Falsettoland
ByTARAM.SEMAN
BySTyE bsETSN7,TNEp fuNTsS
People packed the Wherrett 
Room on Friday evening to catch 
cy-rhTTs-yEu4 Scotch n Sodas 
continuation of last falls ySgl 
sH Tlh cy-rhTTsr5 These people 
werent disappointed.
The thought of a musical about 
Marvin, a man who tries to bal
ance his role as father to his 13- 
year-old son, Jason, and his deep 
feelings for his lover, Whizzer, 
may seem irreverent or absurd. 
But it strangely seems to work.
Last falls ySgl sHTlh cy-rhT9
Tsr set the stage for cy-rhTTs-yEu 
by introducing us to the charac
ters and their relationships. We 
met Marvin, a middle-aged man 
who discovers hes gay and leaves 
his wife for his lover; Trina, his 
wife who has to cope with the 
break up of her marriage and its 
effect on their son; Whizzer, 
Marvins lover; Mendel, Marvins 
psychiatrist who falls in love with 
Trina; and Jason, Marvin and 
Trinas son. cy-rhTTs-yEu intro
duces us to two more characters, 
Dr. Charlotte and Cordelia, the 
lesbians next door.
The story of cy-rhTTs-yEu has 
math/CS senior Michael Patrick 
Walker, who plays Marvin, argu
ing with CIT freshman Jessica 
Messer, who plays Trina, about 
their son Jasons bar mitzvah.
; Seventh-grader Brent R. Montone plays the role of Jason. Juni ior chemistry major Andy
1 Folmers Mendel tries vainly to 
; mediate between his wife, Trina,
and his former patient, Marvin. 
He ends up agreeing with Jason 
when they sing, Everyone Hates 
Their Parents.
Jasons father, stepfather, and 
mother all show up to watch Ja
son and the other Jewish Boys 
Playing Baseball. Marvins
crowing about Whizzers faults 
and trying to win Whizzer back.
Marvins efforts pay off, and he 
and Whizzer renew their rela
tionship. There is an especially 
affecting scene where Marvin 
sings of his love for Whizzer while 
they are in bed together. Both 
actors were able to 
convince the audience 
that there was a relationship between 
them in last 
JUH semesters ySgl sH 
Tlh cy-rhTTsr4 but this 
scene transcended 
that. I really believed 
that the relationship 
between Marvin and 
Whizzer was real. 
Bravo.
Kevin Chen/Tartan Photographer 
35fT STNgIeo SypTHN oTla 
vyyHA hTSTgHeaT afTIH SypT,
friends, Dr. Charlotte and 
Cordelia, played by junior 
LCS major Megan Dietz 
and junior history major 
Christy M. Moore, are also 
present to cheer Jason on. 
Whizzer, sophomore ECE 
major Andy Vaughan, 
shows up to watch Jason 
play because of the affec
tion he feels for the boy. 
Marvin, who has not dealt with 
the break-up of their relation
ship well, alternates between
Kevin Chen/Tartan 
6eHpIo SyyRN yo eN fIN SypTH zfIKKTH NfeHTN e 
PyPToa dIaf fIN Nyo keNyo,
Dietz and Moore as Dr. Char
lotte and her culinarily inad
equate lover, Cordelia, were also 
able to convince the audience of 
their relationship. The way they 
played off each other really came 
out when Charlotte was con
cerned about what she was read
ing about the virus that passes 
from one man to another and 
Cordelia was certain that her 
cooking had poisoned her lover.
Whizzers illness brings all the 
characters together and ends all 
their senseless bickering over 
Jasons bar mitzvah. Having the 
ceremony in Whizzers hospital 
room speaks volumes about the 
relationship between Jason and 
his fathers lover. When Whizzer 
has a coughing fit during the bar 
mitzvah, the audience 
picks up on the feel
ing of doom. This was 
a three Kleenex scene 
for me, and I heard 
plenty of other people 
in the audience sniff
ing, too.
If a musical produc
tion can make me cry, 
they must be doing one 
hell of a job. Scotch n 
Soda did a fantastic 
jobwithits production 
of cy-rhTTs-yEu5 If you 
missed it on Friday, 
Photographer you really missed a 
wonderfully touching 
show.
frAsh
Wednesday
Roman Catholic Masses: 
February 24 at 
12 Noon & 5 p.m. in the 
Skibo Wherrett Room
Weekday Masses are celebrated Monday thru Friday 
in Skibo Rm. 39 at 12:30 p.m. On Fridays of Lent, the 
Stations of the Cross are prayed at noon in Rm. 39. For 
more information, call The Oratory at 681-3181.
Want to lose weight? 
Want to be more active?
The University of Pittsburgh Medical Center is offering a new 
research weight loss program. Participation could help you 
lose weight and will increase your activity level.
If you are age 25 to 55, are 20 to 80 pounds overweight, and live 
or work within 30 minutes of the Oakland section of Pittsburgh, 
you may be eligible to participate in this free, six-month study.
For more information, please call (412) 624-4879.
EN1hSrNT' sH MNTTr7,Spl huNgybhEThS
Think big.
Earn a full years credit in eight or nine weeks.
Northwestern University 
Summer Session '93 
Think or swim.
Our intensives in chemistry, physics, 
and languages draw students from 
all over the country.
Call I-800-FINDS NU (in Illinois, call 
708/491-4114) or mail this coupon.
Im thinking. Send me a free copy of 
the Summer Session '93 catalog with 
financial aid and registration information 
(available in March). Please send the 
catalog to ? my home ? my school. 
Summer Session '93, 2003 Sheridan Road 
Evanston, Illinois 60208-2650
Name
School Address
City Slate Zip
Home Address 
CitvState Zip 1
Nonlmwttrm iiantijual opportunity rducaiwr and rmplwcr.
Thursday, March 4
Simon of the Desert/Los 
Olvidados
This evening brings us two classic films from 
south of the border from Mexican director Luis 
Buuel. Both films are in Spanish with English 
subtitles.
The first film, Simon of the Desert, offers a 
hilarious parable about St. Simon Stylites, a 
bearded ascetic who spends 37 years atop a 60 foot 
pillar to communicate better with God, preach to 
Christian flocks, and avoid temptation. Silvia Pinal 
plays the devil who comes to tempt him.
Buuel offers a more serious film with Los 
Olvidados, the story of two juvenile delinquents 
from the Mexican slums who end up venturing so 
deep into the criminal world that they go beyond 
the point of redemption. This story is interspersed 
with shocking, erotic, and surrealist dream se
quences.
At 6, 8:30, and 11 pm.
Friday, March 5
Unforgiven
Nominated for Best Picture, Best Director, Best 
Actor, and Best Supporting Actor by the Academy 
for this years Oscar awards, Unforgiven stars 
Clint Eastwood and Gene Hackman in a new 
Western film.
Eastwood (in an Oscar-nominated performance) 
plays a cowboy who tries to lay down his gun, but 
is tempted by a band of ruffians to become a hired 
assassin. Strips the veneer off of the classic West
ern tale you are all used to.
If you want to actually see Eastwood in a criti
cally acclaimed performance, go spend the buck.
At 5:45, 8,10:15 pm and 12:30 pm.
Saturday, March 6
The Distinguished 
Gentleman
Eddie Murphy stars as small-time con artist 
Thomas Jefferson Johnson, a man who manages to 
scam his way onto the Florida election ballot when 
Congressman Jeff Johnson dies, and then pro
ceeds to con his way into the White House by 
pushing a purely name recognition-based cam
paign. Jeff Johnson  The Name You Know 
becomes his slogan.
Johnson finds himself right at home in Wash
ington, being able to rake in the profits for the first 
time in his life without doing anything illegal.
He soon learns that he has the power to do to the 
rest of Congress what Congress has been doing to 
everyone else.
Comedy ensues as Johnson turns all of Wash
ington upside-down.
If you (like 90 percent of the American popula
tion) are one of those people who loves to see 
Washington made fun of, go see this film for an 
evening full of laughs.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Sunday, March 7
Beyond the Valley of the 
Dolls
Ever wonder what qualified Roger Ebert to be 
such a popular film critic? Well, this Sunday night 
you can catch a glimpse ofit with Beyond the Valley 
ofthe Dolls, a somewhat loosely based sequel to 
Valley ofthe Dolls.
This film, written by Ebert and directed by Russ 
Meyer, tells the story ofal960sgirl band trying to 
make it in Hollywood. Attempts to dabble in petty 
political ideas, but somehow never quite makes it 
to anywhere significant.
Contains enough gratuitous sex to feed a whole 
classroom full of prep school boys, and enough 
gratuitous 60s hip talk to make you lose your 
lunch.
Maybe this is how Ebert got his job, kind of like 
an old-football-coach-turns-commentator syn
drome.
By TINA L. URSO

---------------------------------------------------

UNI VERSI
W
It
1
t'Jb

UU [qU
Hollywood Pictures Company. All Rights Reserved 
5fyPeN kTrrTHNyo kyfoNyo vvIT 6cHtfuO hyoN fIN deu (oay afT zfIaT MycNT Io The Dlstinglshed 
Gentleman, NfydIoE neacHveui 6eHhf )i Io qM UUmF,
byry7-yEgy
plays in DH 2210 
on Saturday at 6, 
8,10pm,andmidnight.
W0 BNphSr HSsU 
;I yE p T ,Ep
plays in DH 2210 
this Sunday at 6,
8,10 pm, and mid
night.
PNUsE sH Tlh 
LhrhSTXnsr 
.-1Nuyusr plays 
in DH 2210 on 
Thursday, March
4. Shows are at 6, 
8:30, and 11 pm.
EHsSpN1hE 
shows in DH 2210 
on Friday, March
5, at 5:45, 8,10:15 
pm, and 12:30 am.
The Career Center Library is nor
mally open Mondays and Thursdays 
from 5-7 pm, in addition to regular 
weekday office hours. The Monday of 
midsemester break, March 1, the office 
will close at 5 pm.
The Pittsburgh Hypnosis Research 
Group holds workshop meetings every 
Monday at 7 pm at the Friends Meeting 
House. Donations of $1 accepted. For 
information, call Bill King at 276-1768.
The CMU Lesbian/Bisexual 
Womens Discussion Group meets 
Tuesdays at 7:30 pm in the CMU 
Womens Center. Questioning? Posi
tively sure? Come to the discussion 
group for friendly talk and fun.
CMU Shorin-Ryu Karate Clubmeets 
Mondays at 8:30 pm and Saturdays at
4 pm in Activity Room B of the CMU 
Gymnasium. Beginners are welcome.
The Konpo Karate Club meets on 
Tuesdays from 8:30-10:30 pm and 
Thursdays from 8-10 pm in Activity 
room B, and Sundays from 2-4 pm in 
Activity room A. For information email 
cd2b or coll x4179.
The Self Knowledge Symposium, a
non-donominotionnl student study 
group for thoso Booking insights into 
who they are, a change of being, and a 
livable philosophy, holds regular meet
ings on Tuesdays at 7 pm in the Cathe
dral of Learning, room 302. For more 
information, call 343-1907.
Student Senate meetings are every 
Tuesday in the Wherrett Room at 7 pm. 
All members of the campus community 
are welcome to attend and speak dur
ing audience participation.
Fear Public Speaking? Every first 
and third Wednesday the Toastmas
ters Club sponsors a speech communi
cation workshop at the Carnegie Li
brary in Oakland, from 7-8:30 pm. For 
more information, call 422-5361.
Jewish Law and Customs Class is
held on Wednesdays at 7:30 pm in the 
Israel room (337) at the Cathedral of 
Learning. Free of charge. Call Rabbi 
Samuel Weinstein at 683-7770 for more 
information.
The Poetry and Fiction Workshop,
sponsored by the University of Pitts
burgh, meets every Wednesday at 7 pm 
in the first floor conference room of the 
Oakland Carnegie Library. The group 
is an open forum for writers and in
cludes Pitt and CMU students and 
alumni. For moro information, call 421- 
8140.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC)
holds meetings every Wednesday at 7 
pm in the Wherrett Room. For more 
information, call x2114.
The annual West Pennsylvania Job 
Fair will be held Wednesday, March 3, 
from 9 am to 4 pm at the Expomart in 
Monroeville. Pre-registration is re
quired through the Career Center. For 
further information, contact John
Michalenko at x3064.
AIME meets on Thursdays at 4:30 pm 
in Skibo 12. AIME is a good way to have 
fun while getting involved in business 
activities at CMU. All majors are wel
come. Questions? Call Jeff at x4693.
A Rational Recovery support group 
for those with alcohol or drug.problems 
meets every Friday at 7:30 pm. Meet
ings are free and held in Room 205 of 
the Wightman Community Center 
Building in Squirrel Hill. For informa
tion on this and other RR meetings in 
the Pittsburgh area, phone 261-5363.
Chatham Colleges Black Student 
Union will be sponsoring a free stu
dent mixer this Saturday from 9 pm to
2 am in Mellon Centers Anderson Hall.
The Fencing Club holds practices in 
the Fencing Room in the Gymnasium 
Sunday afternoons at 12:30 pm and 
Tuesday evenings at 6:30 pm. All skill 
levels are welcome.
Student Environmental Action 
Coalition meets every Sunday at 4:30 
pm in Gray Matter. SEACs job is to 
motivate students to become actively 
involved in working towards protect
ing our environment. For more infor
mation, call Josh Knauor at 4949.
Campus Affairs Chair Burt 
Holzman is looking for volunteers to 
help enforce the new poster policy. If 
interested, call x4729.
The St. Patricks Day Parade is now
taking applications for the ceremonial 
position ofMiss Smiling Irish-Eyes. All 
single women age 17 to 22 of Irish 
ancestry are invited to apply. For more 
information, call 571-7721.
The Volunteer Babysitting Net
work is looking for student parents in 
need of free childcare and students and 
faculty interested in babysitting. For 
information, contact David Pegher at 
x4840, Box 1107, or email dp31.
auUNrrNsE Ts y-- L) W0 HN-Ur Nr |W HsS 
rT,uhETr INTl iLQ | sTlhSINrh5 auUNr9
rNsE Ts y-- MNTTr7,Spl M-y'ls,rh HN-Ur4 
-sgyThu yT  bSyHT a1hE,h4 Nr |85
iEusglNEh4 starring French actress 
Catherine Denueve, shows at the Play
house every night this week. Shows 
start at 7 pm on Sunday through 
Thursday, with an additonal showing 
at 9:30 pm on Friday and Saturday 
nights.
xNEpr sH LhrNSh4 Wim Wenders alle
gory ofthe post-modern, plays Wednes
day at 7 pm in PH 100. Sponsored by 
the Modem Languages Program, the 
movie is free and in German with En
glish subtitles.
yrlsUsE plays inDH 2210 on Thurs
day. Shows are at 6, 8, 10 pm, and 
midnight.
PyT,Suy' dNplT ch1hS4 a70s classic, 
shows in DH 2210 on Friday at 6,8,10 
pm, and midnight.
at 8 pm. Call 325-6743 for more infor
mation or reservations.
Blh PhgShT wySuhE4 directed by Alan 
Byrne, will be performed Saturday at
11 am and 2 pm. All performances will 
be held in Robert Morris Moon Town
ship Performance Hall. For informa
tion, call the box office at 262-8336.
f1h-'E yEu Tlh Ms-my ;NEp premieres 
Wednesday, March 3, at 8 pm at the 
City Theatre. The show runs through 
Sunday, March 28. Directions, tickets, 
and other information can be obtained 
by calling 431-4900.
The Pittsburgh Queer Theater, a
gay and lesbian theater company, will 
perform four one-act plays Friday, 
March 5, at 8 pm and Saturday, March
6, at 6 and 9 pm at The Pitt, located at 
the comer of Bouquet and Sennot. For 
reservations, call 363-4470.
Blh LNrTNE9
p,Nrlhu whET-hUyE play s in DH 2210
on Saturday, March 6, at 6, 8,10 pm, 
and midnight.
oh'sEu Tlh Oy--h' sH Tlh Ls--r plays 
in DH 2210 on Sunday, March 7, at 6,
8,10 pm, and midnight.
Compline Prayer at the End of the
Day is sung every Sunday night at 9:30 
pm at the Heinz Chapel. For more in
formation, call 682-6886.
Check out Chuck Watts and the 
Acoustic Experiment at Scotland 
Yard Tuesdays from 9 pm to midnight.
The CMU Wind Ensemble will per
form in concert Wednesday at 8 pm at 
Synod Hall. Admission is free. Contact 
the Music Department at x2383 for 
more information.
CMUs Contemporary Ensemble
will perform Thursday, March 4, at 8 
pm in the Alumni Concert Hall. For 
further information, contact Louse 
Sciannameo at x2383.
Yellowman, Jamaicas best-selling 
reggae artist, will perform Thursday 
night at Graffiti, located in Shadyside. 
Showtime is 9 pm.
Blues guitarist Buddy Guy, winner 
of the Grammy Award for Best Con
temporary Blues Album, will perform 
Thursday, March 4, at Grafitti. Tickets 
for the 9 pm show are available through 
any Ticketmaster outlet.
The Jazz Ensemble will perform Sat
urday, March 6, in the Alumni Concert 
Hall/ The concert is free and begins at 
6:30 pm. For more information, call the 
concert manager at x2383.
aST NE Tlh yph sH NEHsSUyTNsE pre
sents works exploring the relationship 
between visual art and technology. This 
exhibit opens Friday at the Wood Street 
Galleries at 808 Penn Modem. The 
exhibit runs through April 17.
The opening of Yugoslavian pho
tographer Gordana Mesarovics 
still life exhibit will be held Thursday 
March 4 at the Chatham College Art 
Gallery from 5:30-8:30 pm. The ex
hibit, free and open to the public, will be 
displayed through April 5.
dNplT-NHh4 by Kathlen Burk, will have 
an opening reception Friday, March 5, 
from 6-8:30 pm in the Pittsburgh Cen
ter for the Arts AAP Gallery. The ex
hibit runs through March 28.
Lectures
Blh xN-- sphSAr cs--Nhr will be per
formed Tuesday through Sunday at the 
Benedum Center. Performance times 
are Tuesday through Sunday at 8 pm 
with 2 pm matinees Saturday and Sun
day. Tickets are $42 and $26.50. For 
more information, call 471-6060.
Boyce Campus Theatre presents 
xsSUIssu4 Blh hrTy,SyET4 and Blh 
yE xls B,SEhu iETs y PTNgm as part of 
the New Directors Series, to be per
formed Wednesday through Saturday
more information.
The Roman Catholic Oratory and 
Tech House invites all students to 
explore the meaning of stress from a 
Biblical standpoint Thursdays from 7- 
8 pm. For more information or direc
tions, call x4391.
Shabbat at Hillel is held every Friday 
with a happy half hour (hors doeuvres) 
at 5:30 pm, services at 6 pm, and dinner 
following. RSVP by calling 621-8875.
Shabbat Candlelit Dinner is held at 
the Chabad House on Friday evenings 
at sundown and on Saturdays at 2 pm. 
Contact Sara Weinstein at 683-7770 
for more information.
Stations of the Cross will be prayed 
at 12 noon in Skibo room 39 during 
Fridays of Lent.
Tech House invites students for 
Lenten Pizza and Blh MSNEghrr oSNuh 
on Friday. Food will be served at 7 pm 
and the movie begins at 9:30 pm. Call 
x4391 for more information.
The Church ofthe Ascension (Epis
copal) welcomes all students to join 
those who worship, serve, and fellow
ship there. Services are held Sundays, 
with a Eucharist at 8:30 am, and morn
ing worship at 11:30 am in the chapel 
located on the comer of Ellsworth and 
Neville in Oakland. A Eucharist is also 
held on Wednesdays at 7 am. For more 
information, contact campus minister 
Hank Suhr at 621-4361.
New Hope Christian Community 
Church invites all students to join in 
contemporary services on Sundays at
11 am in the Central Christian Church 
located at the comer of Fifth and 
Dithridge (134 N. Dithridge). For more 
information, call 621-6760.
Shadyside Presbyterian Church
holds worship service Sundays at 11 
am, college class at 9:45 am. Shadyside 
College Fellowship is on Fridays at 
6:30 pm. For more information, call 
682-4300.
Stress Management for Parents will 
be the title of tomorrows Parent Edu
cation Seminar, to be held from 121 
pm in Skibo room 100. Questions? Call 
Judy Abrams at x2149.
The Future of the Clinton Presi
dency is the title of tomorrows Soup 
and Substance Series lecture, held from 
12-1 pm in the Wherrett Room.
Associate drama professor Don 
Wadsworth will demostrate his speech 
coaching technique Friday in a lecture 
entitled bsyglNEp HsS Tlh s1Nhr5 This 
Soup and Substance Series lecture will 
take place from 121 pmin the Wherrett 
Room.
Award-winning poet Lisel Mueller
will read and discuss her work Friday 
at 7:30 pm in the Cathedral of Learn
ing, room 501.
Pennsylvania Treasurer Catherine 
Baker Knoll will kick off Womens 
History Month at Chatham College with 
a speech concerning womens issues in 
todays society. The lecture will take 
place Thursday March 4 at 7:45 pm in 
the Welker Room of the Laughlin Mu
sic Center.
Sports
Roman Catholic Masses on Ash 
Wednesday will be at noon and 5 pm in 
the Wherrett Room. Call 681-3181 for
csS UsSh NEHsSUy-NsE sE y-- rtsSTr 
h1hETr4 gy-- oS,gh whSrsE4 Tlh PtsSTr 
iEHsSUyTNsE LNShgTsS4 yT 60]v5
The womens basketball team plays 
on Wednesday at Thiel College at 7 pm.
The CMU hockey club competes in 
the semifinals at 4 and 6:30 pm Satur
day at the Golden Mile Ice Arena.
The CMU Team Open Fencing Tour
nament will be held on Saturday at 1 
pm in the Main Gym. Admission is free 
and open to everyone.
The mens and womens indoor 
track teams compete in the Robert 
Morris College Invitational on Satur
day.
The mens and womens swimming 
teams compete in the Case Western 
Reserve University Classic on Satur
day.
The womens basketball team plays
Saturday at Emory University at 6 pmThe CMU hockey club competes in 
the finals at 5 pm on Sunday at the 
Golden Mile Ice Arena.
The mens and womens track teams 
compete in the UAA Championships at 
Brandeis University on Friday and 
Saturday, March 5 and 6.
POPUM
Why are you looking at me like you 
want to eat me? My nose never looked 
at you funny. *
ATOif you guard the fence, you have 
to paint it every night.
To the one and only sun god: dinner was 
wonderful and so are you!
THREE CHEERS FOR THE STU
DENT ONION! WAA! WAA! AH, 
SUCK IT, FIDO!
Navy Boy,
Theres a mouse in the bed. And a rat. 
And a water moccasin ... 
Conservative Catholic Girl
SWM (who is DATING attractive 
Kappa Alpha Theta simmer) seeking 
to beat on SWM who is seeking yT9
TSygTN1h Kappa Alpha Theta 
swimmer...shove your tickets up yow
ass!
SAE - one more hole-in-one and we 
wouldnt have made it home.
Love, Pitt Kappa Alpha Theta
