WELCOME TO CARNEGIE
Wixt Carnegie 3Tartmi
Vol. 34 No. 27CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 1041
Vol.o3 4oN27 CA7.RlE 
GA.I VIA7 ST2UAoO F77H2
Vo l.34N27 C.33N2 
This issue of the TARTAN represents the first time in twentyfive years that a special exhibition night issue has been attempted.
It is intended that this issue be an aid to your fuller enjoy
ment of tonight's exhibition and knowledge of the educational 
opportunities offered at Carnegie. This issue represents weeks of 
effort on the part of TARTAN staff. The staff has done its best 
to make this issue a milestone in the TARTANS history and a 
souvenir edition which will be well worth perusing.
It is also an attempt to give the reader some idea of the 
work which is done every week on the campus news publication. 
It is really an ambitious attempt in view of the fact that the 
nsual size of the paper is six pages.
As much a part of Carnegie Tech as the smokestack on Ma
chinery Hall, the TARTAN has been a campus institution since 
1906.
It is not, however, an untram
melled existence that the TABTAN has had these many years.
Due to the S. A. T. C., which was 
set up during the World War, the 
TARTAN had to suspend publi
cation for several months during 
the school year 1918-19. During 
that same year a most startling 
occurrence took placethe editor 
had to give up his job because of 
the exigencies of his school 
work.
Nor did the TARTANS troubles 
end there. In 1920, because of the 
very high price of printing and en
graving, it became necessary to 
load the paper with advertising in 
order to make it a self-supporting 
publication. The 1920 THISTLE 
expressed the hope for a more 
newsy paper next year.
During the World War, the 
TARTAN was perhaps overaware 
of its own importance to the 
school. It proclaimed its new task 
to be that of keeping the mind 
x of the student body ever in touch 
with the great struggle in which 
our country is engaged.
The staff was handicapped dur
ing the war years through re
peatedly having its members leave 
to serve their country. Its editorin-chief, Paul H. Armour, wasnt 
called for the service, however, 
and did a thorough good job in 
spite of his many difficulties.
In 1916-17, only about ten years 
after the founding of Carnegie 
Tech, the TARTAN was really 
considered big time. It was the 
only college paper that sent a 
photographer along with its foot
ball team. Harry Keck, then 
sports editor of the Pittsburgh 
Post, hailed the TARTAN as one 
of the best college papers in the 
country.
The year 1916-17, in fact, 
seems to have been a banner one. 
for the TARTAN. During that 
year it increased its circulation 
from one thousand to twenty-six 
hundred. One of its main objects 
at that time was the binding more 
closely of the four schools into 
which Carnegie Tech was divided 
at that time.
In 1921 the TARTAN made an
other big increase in circulation, 
going up to 3,800 copies. The fig
ure rose to over 4,000 in 1922, and 
the format was increased to inARE4GEINS RE T.UN OF
President Dohertys Welcome
It gives me pleasure to wel
come visitors to the thirty-fifth 
Annual Evhibition of the Car
negie Institute of Technology.
This annual occasion affords us 
the opportunity to inform citizens 
of Pittsburgh and the surrounding 
district concerning th character 
of the work done at Carnegie by 
exhibiting some of the results of 
our educational efforts. It is the 
earnest desire of this institution 
to serve well the community of 
which it forms a part, and we are 
happy to show our friends what 
we are doing.
I am glad that you have come 
to our campus this evening, and 
I hope that you find the hours you 
spend with us pleasant and in
teresting.
HRVN24 L7 YR,N24o7
Recitals Give
For Visitors
As usual, the department of 
Music will present a program to
night in the Little Theatre, Fine 
Arts, at 8:00 and 9:00 P. M.
The programs will each be a 
half hour long, because the de
partment of Drama will present 
intermittent sketches at 8:30 and 
9:30 P. M.
Following is the program to be 
presented by the students in the 
department of Music. Accompan
ists are Clara Schwartz and Mil
ton Levine:
Piano Solo with Organ
Caprice Valse, Wedding Cake, Op.
76 ............................................. Saint-Sans
Gloria Seigle
'Cello SolosApres un Reve ................................... Faure
Orientale .................................................. Cul
William Lebeau 
Clarinet, and Strings
Allegro from Quintet, Op. 115..Brahma 
Milton Shapiro, clarinet 
Henrietta Podlesny. 1st violin; Ruth 
Zimmerman, viola; Gertrude Zweig, tod 
violin; Dorothy Hutchings, cello.
ENGINEERING HALL
Basement
(Hallway)U. S. Steel Dioramas,, blast furnace, open earth furnace, 
rolling mills.
1Cement and Concrete Laboratory.
2Materials Testing Laboratory. Coal Research Laboratory.
13Hydraulic Research Laboratory.
8Chemical Engineering Laboratory.
35Metallographical Laboratory.
36Metal forming and furnace laboratory.
37Mechanical testing and radiography laboratory.
39aPB2.o diffraction equipment and photograms.
First Floor
57Structural Drafting Room. Surveying equipment, soil, mechanics 
testing equipment, and models of dams.
60Tacoma Narrows Bridge model.
Second Floor
102Heat Laboratory.
107Electricity and Magnetism Laboratory.
109-109Atomic Physics Laboratory.
115Science Reference Library.
116Organic Chemistry Laboratory. Inorganic Chemistry Laboratory.
Third Floor 
204General Physics Laboratory.
209Phantom Lamp.
214General Chemistry Laboratory.
218Chemistry Lecture Hall.
Fourth Floor
304Laboratory of Physical and Electrochemistry.
305Analytical Chemistry Laboratory.
306307Chemistry Research Laboratories. Will be shown to interested 
adults upon request at the Chemistry Office, Room 123.
Fifth Floor
401Short Wave Radio Station W8NKI.
MACHINERY HALL
117Electrical Research Laboratory.
10Uses of optical illusions in Mechanical Engineering.
11Demonstration Lecture Room.
13Heating and Ventilating Laboratory.
50Dynamo Laboratory.
53Power Control Laboratory.
55High Voltage Laboratory.
12Machine Elements Laboratory Models showing various types o 
mechanical motion.
4-Heavy Machinery Laboratory.
2Combustion Laboratory.
7Aeronautics Laboratory.
100Engineering Reference Library.
301Photoelastic Laboratory.
INDUSTRIES HALL
Basement 0
7Forge and Heat Treatment Shop.
12Industrial Organization exhibits.
19bConcrete and Masonry Shop. A camp recreation building de
signed and built by students in architecture and in carpentry 
and masonry.
First Floor
100Management Engineering Office.
104MilitaryEngineering movie each half hour.
107Machine Shop.
111-113Military equipment and model displays.
123Foundry.
125Motion Study Laboratory.
128Motion and Time Study exhibits.
132Sheet Metal-Shop.
135Welding Shop.
136Protolithography Laboratory.
139Machine Composition Laboratory.
140Presswork Laboratory.
145aLayout and Design Studio;, exhibit of student work.
145cTypography Laboratory; setting type by hand.
Second Floor
219Accounting Laboratory.
228Social Relations Division Office.
229Electric Construction Shop.
232Pattern Shop.
240Carpentry and Cabinetmaking Shop.
245Psychology Laboratory.
247Motion pictures used for instruction in psychology.
251Reading Laboratory.Third Floor
319-321-Drawing Rooms. Management Engineering Laboratories.
360Engineering Training Defense Courses.
ADMINISTRATION HALL
Apply at information desk in Registration Office for location of the 
various administrative offices.
GYMNASIUM
First Floor
102-103Director, Intercollegiate Athletics.
Womens Club Room.
Womens Gymnasium.Second Floor 
Boxing and Wrestling Room.Mens Gymnasium 
Fashion Parade at 8:00 p. m. by Department of Costume Economics. 
Third Floor
304Corrective Exercises Room for men.
201-301Corrective Exercises Room for women.
302-303Hand Ball Courts.
Program for Tonight
Lol32YA2 ,PIABA.AR3 
DT237 GA.I 6olo12
Vo DNRE.2S A,R43EN2 
Tonight, Carnegie Institute of Technology opens its doora 
to the public, with its thirty-fifth annual exhibition.
At 7:30, the companies of the R. 0. T. C., led by Carnegies 
famed Kiltie Band, will parade in review before Cadet Colonel 
Martin and the staff officers. The Kiltie Band will play a halfhour concert, near the Tech flagpole, after the parade.
Following this, all departments of the school will be open 
for exhibition and inspection.
This years exhibition is highlighted by three new features. 
For the first time in the history of the exhibition, the TARTAN 
is carrying a full listing of the various activities of the evening, 
and the issue will take the form of a souvenir issue. Second is 
steel-making in miniature, as demonstrated by the United States 
Steel -Worlds Fair Exhibit', which was recently presented as a 
gift to the Institute by the U. S. Steel Corporation. The exhibit
consists of three dioramas, repreMARGARET MORRISON CARNEGIE COLLEGE
Basement 
Department of General Science
5-Physics Laboratory.
17Class in Chemistry Laboratory.
20-21Bacteriology Laboratories. Preparations of bacteria, tissues and 
embryos.
First Floor 
Department of General Science 
120Specimens of animals and plants.
103Social Work films, 7:15 p. m.-9:15 P. M.
Department of Social Work 
108Social Work Exhibits and Puppet Show.
Department of Nursing 
119Special Exhibition by students.
Second Floor 
Department of Costume Economies
212Textile exhibit.213-214Exhibit of gowns and coats made by students.
203Exhibit of designs.
64ISNE41 0G33 UGhN . i.1,GRE s.2.SN GE uoeE.1GIe .4 ftFF p. m. 
Third Foor 
Department of Secretarial Studies 
304Business Methods. Demonstration of Business Machines.
Department of Household Economics 
310Science of Food Preparation.
312Quantity Food Laboratory.
313Senior Practice in Food Administration.
314Suggestions for Saving Time and Energy in the Home.
315Display of Equipment and Educational Toys for the Pre-School 
Child.Fourth Floor
Department of Secretarial Studies 
401-404Typewriting. Transcription, copy tests, tabulation.
COLLEGE OF FINE ARTS
Elevators will be found at each end of the building.
First Floor
8:00 P. M. and 9:00 P. M.Theatre. Recital by the Department of 
Music.
8:30 P. M. and 9:30 P. M.Theatre. Short play by the Department 
of Drama.Large Exhibition Room-Exhibition by the Department of Archi
tecture.Small Exhibition RoomPainting and Design, and Sculpture. 
South End, Main Hall-Exhibition of Scene Models.
Library of the College of Fine Arts.
Organ StudioMusic by organ students.
Mezzanine Floor 
Department of Music 
161-164Practice Rooms.
153Music Library.
157Harmony Room.
151-Piano Studio. \
155-156-Violin and Cello Studios.
160Voice Studio.
Department of Drama 
176-180Costume Rooms.
192-Model Room.Second Floor 
Department of Architecture 
South Corridor, exhibition of student work.
200-205Drafting Rooms.
Third Foor 
Department of Tainting and Design 
314-307-309Drawing Studios.
302-304Design Drafting Rooms.
313-315-Industrial Design Drafting Room.
303Illustration.
301 and Main Corridor-Exhibition of student work.
Fourth Floor 
Department of Tainting and Design 
411Drawing Studio.Basement 
Department of Drama
6Scene Design Room.Department of Tainting and Design 
Metalwork Studio.
Industrial Design Shop.
Pottery Studio.Department of Sculpture
Sculpture Studio.
CARNEGIE COMMONS
(Front section) Studio Theater, colored photographs of stage 
settings.
(Middle section) Automotive Laboratory. r
(Rear section) Cafeteria.
CARNEGIE UNION
This building, located at 5075 Forbes Street, serves as the 
student activities center and as alumni headquarters.
CARNEGIE INN
Dining room for dormitory girls and private dining room; 
open for inspection from 7:30 to 10:30. The Grill Room will be 
open for service until 11:30 p. m.
senting the Blast Furnace, Open 
Hearth, and Rolling Mill Process
es. These dioramas are now in 
actual operation in the lower cor
ridor of Engineering Hall.
Third is the Engineering de
fense training which will be con
tinued as usual, giving the pub
lic an opportunity to witness the 
machinery of defense in Opera
tion. There will be no interrup
tion of recitations in defense
to Visitors 
On last
pG1G4R21 nGESGEU G4 SGnnGmI34 4R 
e.wN 4,NG2 0.o .2RIES RE 4,N 
yNm, m.eTI1 e.o mRE1I34 4,N e.T 
Rn 4,N m.eTI1 Rn 4,N7 A.e.UG. -Ev
14G4I4N Rn yNm,ER3RUo7 y,G1 TGmv
4I2N e.o VN nRIaGS RE 4,N 3.14 T.UN 
Rn 4,G1 NSG4GRE Rn 4,N rycHycx7 
L.m, VIG3SGEU G1 EIeVN2NS RE 4,N 
S2.0GEU 0G4, 4,N E.eN Rn 4,N 
VIG3SGEU .ES mR22N1TRESGEU EIev
VN2 T2GE4NS .2RIES 4,N VR2SN2 Rn 
4,N e.T7 7lG4, 4,N I1N Rn 4,N 
T2RU2.e .ES e.Tb hG1G4R21 1,RI3S 
,.hN 3G443N 42RIV3N nGESGEU 4,N Ngv
,GVG41 4,No 0G1, 4R 1NN7
y,G1 S2.0GEU 0.1 e.SN Vo 
dGES2NS jmDN.2ob c11G14.E4 s2Rv
nN11R2 Rn c2m,G4Nm4I2N7 -4 0.1 n3Iv
1,NS GE O'k .n4N2 U2N.4 SN4.G3NS 
0R23S
courses, but laboratories and shop 
course are open for exhibition.
Students of Music and Drama 
will present a program at the 
Theatre of the College of Fine 
Arts from 8:00 to 10:00 which will 
feature a military wedding with 
R. O. T. C. members talcing part. 
In addition, many moving pic
tures will be shown tonight by 
other Arts, Engineering, and 
Margaret Morrison groups.
However, almost every depart
ment has exhibits that should 
prove of interest to a visitor to 
the school. Consult the program 
printed on this page for room 
.numbers.and locations of the var
ious department exhibits.
Tortib Staff 
Honors Senior
By unanimous vote, the Senior 
Editorial Staff of the TARTAN has 
decided to name as the Honorary 
Editor of this special issue, Leon
ard Shatzkin, Senior in the De
partment of Printing. To our 
knowledge this is the first time any 
student has been so honored.
Mr. Shatzkin was the one who 
originally proposed the plan of is
suing a special Exhibition Night 
Issue of the TARTAN to add to 
the enjoyment of the thousands of 
visitors to our campus and to pro
vide them with a worthwhile 
souvenir of their visit. Much of 
the original planning and ar
rangements were carried out by 
Mr. Shatzkin.
While the leg work was done 
by all members of the TARTAN 
staff, we feel that this issue would 
not have been possible without 
Mr. Shatzldns assistance.
We are happy to take this meth
od of demonstrating our apprecia
tion for his efforts.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANFRIDAY, APRIL 25, 1941
Tartan Welcomes Visitors 
To Carnegie Open Blouse
The TARTAN is happy to join with the students and fac
ulty of Carnegie Teeii in welcoming to our campus the thousands 
of friends who are here to see tonights Annual Exhibition.
Wc look forward to this Exhibition as an opportunity to 
display to the entire community the work that Carnegie is doing 
in the field of higher education.
Students and faculty have joined to prepare exhibits of 
the work which is done on the campus from day to day. All 
around you will be found a display of student projects.
Wc arc glad to present this Exhibition for the public be
cause we feel that this is a demonstration of the close contact 
that must exist between the community and its schools. Car
negie Tcch is preparing its students to take their place in the 
community as active useful citizens. We want the community 
to sec how this preparation is taking place.
We believe that you will agree that our Exhibition proves 
the value of integrating college education with the needs of 
society and the necessity of the community maintaining an in
terest in what the college is doing.
We have put on exhibition those parts of a college educa
tion which can be assembled in a material form. But what you 
sec tonight are only the tangible evidences of higher education. 
You sec that Carnegie students are musicians; that they can act; 
that they can set type and run printing presses; that they can 
cook and sew; that they can do tricks with chemicals; that they 
can design buildings and bridges; that they can do a thousand 
and one things, things for which it is the obligation of society 
to train its members, for without people with these skills society 
cannot function.
There is another side of the picture which cannot be ex
hibited. It cannot be presented to our guests in tangible mate
rial form. It is a side of the picture which is, if anything, more 
important. For, of what value is it to society if it has people 
who build bridges and run printing presses, if it does not have 
people trained to provide the spiritual, moral and ethical leader
ship which society needs?
Carnegies work in the important field of character-building 
can only be understood after long association with the institu
tion and its officers.
Tech does not offer courses in character-building as such, 
but the attitude of the administration and faculty serves as an 
example for the student to emulate.
Tech trains its students to think for themselves honestly 
and logically, without interference. Opinions and ideas are 
judged only on their merit and not on the basis of the position 
of the person who propounds them.
That is why Tcch is able to point with pride to its splendid 
student self-government. Democratic administration, without 
faculty interference, of student self-government, provides stu
dents with valuable lessons and experience.
Our student government can be said to be a symbol of the 
sort of work Tech is doing in building useful citizens.
We invite you to see our exhibits and hope that you will 
feel free to come to the TARTAN office in the Carnegie Union 
to see us. Wo are at your service.
Wc hope that this issue of the TARTAN will add to your 
enjoyment tonight and that you will find the material in it in
teresting and informative.
We know that wc speak for the faculty and the entire stu
dent; body when we say that your comments on the work Car
negie Tech is doing will be appreciated. We feel that Carnegie 
is part of our community. We want, you to feel the same.
dFaruecjie <Ifartau
Oiirnrijlo Inritltuto of TonJmolnjfy, Holicnlcy I'nrk, lMttxburirh, Ia.1IIONK MAYFLOWER. 20(10
_____________________________________1HONi: HC'HKNMCY IKIVT _______________________________
hBPnBniiNTiu roil NATIONAL AOVINTIOINO PV After h
National Advertising Service, Inc. Editor-in-chief .... jAckson 4257
"ir"1:,., MnnnKer. .SChenlcy nu
Vol.34N  liomor.  2N7 Ar.m.  C3A Ro3E.GI.N Advertising Manager.. HAzcI 3898
Entered un nrooml-clnnn matter in the nttNburgh Tout Omoe under the Act or 
March !), 1870
IuhUnhcri weekly during nchool yenr, except holiday and examination periods.
____________________________ Sulmcrlptlon Trice SI.(Id per year.
Honorary EditorLeonard Shatzkin
LSG4R2BGEBm,GNn ...................................................................... L3N.ER2 1,2o
zI1GEN11 j.E.UN2.......................................................................Herbert HNGm,
j.E.UGEU Editor..................................................................... 6o3hG. 63.hwGE
xN01 LSG4R2 ............................................................................... jG2G.e HR14
iN.4I2N LSG4R2 .....................................................................LSo4,N i.2Ve.E
6TR241 LSG4R2...............................................................................William i3RoS
cShN24G1GEU j.E.UN2..........................................................Ham/ cV2.eRhG4M
AG2mI3.4GRE j.E.UN2.......................................................................-2hGEU YN2nN3
6TR241 s,R4RU2.T,N2................................................A,.23N1 pNEmG3
ARTo L9jR2 ................................................................................... HI4, z2RSGN
6Nm2N4.2o.................................................................................j.24,. A,N21wo
64.nn c24G14.......................................................................................L33GR44 y0N2o
BUSINESS STAFF: Sylvan Rosenfield, Dee Andella Ted Burtis, Ted 
Nierenberg.
JUNIOR EDITORS: Phyllis Buchman, Paul Guinther, Gilbert Kivenson, Saul Moses, Walter StuU, Joanne Tislilarieh, Barbara Kramer, 
Mercedes Cunningham.
SPORT STAFF: George Tondorf, Joe Thomas, Bob Cowie, Don Wat
kins, Jim Geist.
REPORTERS: Leonard Chotiner, Robert Dixon, Gerry Edelson, Patricia 
Elman, Walter Haller, Marianna Hogg, Jeanne King, Bill King, 
Wallace Sadauskas, Jack Shore, Melvin Snyder, Bud Teichman, 
Margaret Goodman, Malta Sivitz, Helena Aronson, Walter Darby,
Charles Goehring, T. J. Harmany, Louise Saul, Bill Lloyd, Doreen
Barry.
l)Bgrcs Offer;!
4o3E LRHl727 02Tl2723.21 
F3 Lh Fh Vhi7 sRHl LROO2Y27
The Carnegie Institute of Technology consists of four col
leges, each with its own faculty, buildings, and student bodjr. 
The courses of instruction are as follows:
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
The College, of Engineering offers four-year courses, leading 
to the degree of Bachelor of Science in Chemical, Civil, Electrical, 
Management, Mechanical, and Metallurgical Engineering, and 
Printing. Courses in Chemistry, Physics, and Mathematics in 
preparation for research work and teaching, and certain graduate 
, courses are also offered.
COLLEGE OF FINE ARTS
Courses leading to the Bachelors Degree are given in Architecture, 
Drama, Music, Painting and Design, and Sculpture. Courses leading 
to the Masters Degree are given in certain departments.
MARGARET MORRISON CARNEGIE COLLEGE
The Margaret Morrison Carnegie College gives courses for women, 
leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in Costume Economics, 
Household Economics, Vocational Home Economics, General Science, 
Secretarial Studies, Social Science, Nursing, and General Studies (preLibrary). Courses are also given for the preparation of teachers of 
these special subjects. Graduate programs are offered by the Depart
ments of Home Economics and Social Work.
CARNEGIE LIBRARY SCHOOL
One-year courses in Library Work with Children, High School 
Library Work, and General Library Work are offered for graduates 
of accredited colleges. These courses lead to the Bachelor of Science 
in Library Science degree. Classes are conducted in the Carnegie Li
brary Building.
DIVISION OF GENERAL STUDIES
The Division of General Studies gives instruction in Mathematics, 
English, Modern Languages, History, Economics, Psychology and Edu
cation, and Engineering Drawing and Descriptive Geometry, wherever 
these subjects appear in the curricula of the several colleges.
SOCIAL RELATIONS
An integrated required program of instruction for engineering students.
DIVISION OF PHYSICAL WELFARE
The Departments of Intercollegiate Athletics, Physical Education, 
and Intramural Athletics are administered by this division.
MILITARY SCIENCE AND TACTICS
Enrollment in the R. O. T. C. is voluntary. Successful completion 
leads to a commission as a reserve officer in the U. S. Army.
EVENING COURSES AND PART-TIME CLASSES
The College of Engineering, the College of Fine Arts, and the Di
vision of General Studies offer a wide range of evening courses for 
men who are at work during the day. The majority of evening sub
jects are equivalent to the corresponding day courses. In the Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie College several courses in Secretarial Studies are given in the evening.
SUMMER SESSION
In the Summer Session of 1941 instruction will be given in some 
subjects in three of the colleges. Courses for teachers have been ar
ranged in Art, in Drama, in Music, in Sculpture, in Home Economics, 
and in Printing. Other summer courses include Architecture, Physics, 
Chemistry, Mathematics. English, Economics, Business Law, Psychology, 
Social Relations, and Drawing and Descriptive Geometry.
It should be of interest to the friends of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology to know that the Carnegie Corporation of New York will
Pay to the Trustees of the Institute of Technology on July 1, 1946, eight
million dollars provided the Trustees raise the sum of four million dol
lars. In other words, for every dollar that is subscribed the Corpora
tion will give two dollars. One-third of the amount raised may be in 
buildings; the other two-thirds must be applied to endowment.
You Are Invited 
To Visit Tartan
The TARTAN extends a cordial 
invitation to all visitors and
alumni to visit the TARTAN of
fice tonight, third floor Carnegie 
Union, and see the staff in action 
working on next Tuesdays issue.
SUIRRO 6lRH1 
Du Lou2.2lAo7
Vo s,o33G1 zIm,e.E
Every day of the school week, 
Carnegie Techs three eating 
placesThe Commons, Carnegie 
Inn, and The Grillaccommodate 
three thousand students with 
meals planned, by dieticians and 
prepared and served by sixty 
full-time employees.
But the eating situation at 
Carnegie Tech was not always so 
simple. The building which is 
now known as The Commons, or 
the Beanery, was constructed 
during World War I for the pur
pose of instruction in aviation 
ground work. The Langley Lab
oratory of Aeronautics, as it was 
then called, was turned over to 
Tech by the government at the 
conclusion of the war, and a 
much needed cafeteria was made 
out of the building.
Previous to 1924 ' the girls 
dorms were situated on Margaret 
Morrison Street, and dining 
rooms serving only thirty girls 
were in these houses. They were 
very crowded, as well as incon
venient; therefore, when a new 
gymnasium was constructed in 
1924, the old gym.was turned in
to what is now known as Car
negie Inn and The Grill. The up
stairs part of the building, The 
Inn, was remodeled firstan eat
ing place for girls only. The fol
lowing winter, construction began 
to turn the downstairs into a soda 
fountain where the students 
could go for refreshments, but 
the demand became so great'for 
another eating place that The 
Grill was turned into a cafeteria 
also.
During the past two summers 
The Grill has been remodeled and 
enlarged to accommodate one-? 
third more students than it pre
viously did, amounting to nine 
hundred people daily. It is open 
seven days a week from seven in 
the morning until eleven-thirty at 
night. In the evening students 
may push aside the tables and 
dance.
ATIanlic 5533 Hlland 0818
Automatic Cigarette 
Sales Company
Cigarette Vending Machines
641 Washington Trust Bldg. 
Corner Washington Street 
and Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh
Compliments 
- - of - - 
A Friend
sN4N2 2IEEGEU n2Re 4,N lR3n7 y,N1N .2N 40R Rn 4,N TITTN41 GE 
4,N 1,R0 1TRE1R2NSb Vo yNm,W1 6RmG.3 lR2wN21 4REGU,4 GE j.2U.2N4 
jR22G1RE7 y,No 0G33 .31R UGhN . T2N1NE4.4GRE Rn 40R R4,N2 TITTN4B1,R01 
.1 0N33 .1 8hR eRhGEU TGm4I2N17
4olAR32..2 SIRe7 6l2723.21 
fE SRUAoO S.H1A27 t2Tol.r23.
Vo z.2V.2. d2.eN2 2
exhibit of charts and tables re
lating to the activities of the De
partment and the various social 
institutions it studies with a view 
to alleviation and improvement. 
This exhibit, the pride and joy of 
the Department, is an annual 
event which has always proved of 
interest to outsiders who are par
ticularly interested in the work 
of the Department, both in rela
tion to the academic curriculum 
and the placement of students af
ter graduation.
At 7:15 P. M. and 9:15 P. M.,
Members of the Junior class of 
the Social Vfork Department will 
present today, as in years past, 
a marionette show, hand-made 
from beginning to end. These stu
dents, who take a handcrafts 
course under the supervision of 
Miss Dora Einert, choose their 
play at the beginning of the sec
ond semester, and immediately 
begin making the marionettes. 
First they cast the heads which 
they model in clay, according to 
the characters they want to make. 
Then they saw and sew the bod
ies, doing them in scale, and 
make the costumes. The whole 
procedure of making the little 
figures, designing the sets, and 
learning to manipulate the 
strings of the marionettes occu
pies the attention of the class un
til the very afternoon of open 
house.
This 3rear, the Social Workers 
will present three productions: A 
Swedish Folk Tale, entitled 
Strike While the Iron Is Hot; 
And To Think That I Saw It 
On Mulberry Street, a story en
tirely in poetry of a little boy 
.with a childs vivid imagination 
which fades before the analytical 
eye of an adult; and Peter and 
the Wolf, by the Russian com
poser, Prokofieff, which will be 
given with musical background 
in which a barrator tells the story 
with an accompanying tale in 
music. Performances will be giv
en in Room 108, Margaret Mor
rison, at frequent intervals.
Also in Room 108, the Social 
Work Department will present an
kmtM
movies in relation to Social Work 
will be shown in Margaret Mor
rison, Room 103. These movies, 
Having A Wonderful Time, a 
camping picture, and Boy in 
Court, a film dealing with the 
courts handling of juvenile de
linquents, have been lent to tb' 
Department by the Comrmr 
Fund. All visitors may see t. 
movies, and see the Puppet Sho 
also, since the performances wili 
not conflict.
Dont let hot, dead 
air steal your pep.
Keep cool, refresh. 
cd in LIVELY AIR.
This smartly 1 
streamlined PowerAire Fan is designed 
for proper air cir
culation. Ultra
quiet Micarta 
blades give more 
breeze v/ith less 
sound. Current-sav
ing motor. Get your 
Westinghouse LongLife Fan today 1
Westinghouse Long-Life FansYoum $4.95 up
At YOUR Westinghouse 
Dealer
POWER-AIRE
Id-Inch Oscillating Fan
Just Out!
Lets Get Away From it All 
TOMMY DOESEY
It Was Wonderful Then 
JOE EEICHMAN
Worried Mind 
WAYNE KING
Another One Of Them 
Things 
TOMMY DOESEY
Cancion Del Mar 
XAVIEE CUGAT
VICTOR
The Quality 50c Eecord 
Made By
RCA VICTOR
4pn,SVFL
,m,LV0FL
p66mFpwL,S
113 Atwood Street 
OPEN TIL 8:00 P. M.

---------------------------------------------------

FRIDAY, APRIL 25, 1941THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
SHrr2l S277AR3 S.ol.21 
GRlO1 Gol w2217fE
Preand PostCourses Started 
Three Years Ago
Carnegie Institute of Technolo
gys twenty-fourth Summer Ses
sion will be held in June, July, and 
August of 1941. Courses will be 
offered by all three colleges and 
by the Division of General Studies.
The eight-weelc Summer Session 
of the College of Engineering will 
begin on June 16, and the sixweek courses in the other colleges 
-will be registered on June 27 and 
28.
Beginning 
Carnegies Summer Session had 
its beginning in the war emer
gency of 1918, a fact that is of 
some interest in view of the pres
ent world situation. In May, 1918, 
Arthur A. Hamerschlag, the first 
president of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, decided to use the 
schools facilities during the sum
mer to speed up the training of 
students because of the war emer
gency. A committee of the fac
ulty was appointed to plan that 
first Summer Session. The late 
Dr. Roscoe M. Ihrig was chair
man of that committee and con
tinued as Director of the Summer 
Session for a number of years 
-afterward. The first Summer 
.Session was planned in haste, and 
no printed bulletin was issued to 
 describe its courses. A mimeo
graphed sheet of which no copy 
seems to have been preserved was 
the only announcement of Car
negie's first Summer Session.
Enlarged Curriculum 
The 1919 Summer Session was 
more fully organized and was an
nounced by a sixteen-page printed 
booklet. During that Summer 
. some courses were offered for 
 eleven weeks, some for eight 
weeks, and some for six weeks. 
Courses in Physics, Chemistry, 
Mathematics, Mechanics, and Eng
lish were of just the same character as those offered in the com
ing Summer Session. In the Col
lege of Fine Arts only the Departiment of Music offered subjects in 
1919, and then only in individual 
lessons. A number of courses in 
Mechanical Drawing, Machine 
:Shop, Electrical Equipment, and 
Automobile Maintenance were of
fered by the now extinct College 
-of Industries.
Home Ec
Through the years courses have 
been added to the summer pro
gram, some of which have re
mained permanently and others _ 
of which have vanished after a 
brief period. Courses in Home 
Economics were offered in the 
summers of 1920, 1923, and 1924. 
After having been discontinued 
for some years they reappeared 
when the graduate curriculum for 
teachers of Home Economics was 
instituted in the Summer Session 
of 1939.
Enrollment
The total number of students 
enrolled in the Summer Session 
has not increased greatly since 
the early years. No complete fig
ures for 1918 or 1919 are available, 
but in 1920, 511 students were 
enrolled and in 1922, 641. This 
may be compared with the en
rollments of 566 and 631 in the 
regular Summer Sessions of 1939 
and 1940. The character of the 
student body has changed greatly 
however. In the earlier years 
most of the students were under
graduates. Since 1935, however, 
a number of graduate programs 
for teachers leading to the Mas
ters Degree have been intro1 duced. In our recent Summer 
I Sessions from 150 to 175 students 
; have been college graduates.
Pro and Post Sessions 
One of the most radical changes 
in the Summer Session program 
was the introduction of the Pre
summer Session and Post-summer 
Session in 1938. These sessions, 
| which are given in June and in 
I August and September, include 
shop and laboratory courses re
quired of students in certain derc ^ lege c
1938 these
I 4UJUCU 'j. aKvc-| partments in the College of En 
! gineering. Prior to
were given during the academic 
year, but were transferred to the 
i Summer Session in order to light! en the heavy loads of Engineering 
! freshmen.
25 Years Ago 
Toilay...
In tlie Tar (an
zo G. d7
April 16, 1916After much dis
cussion and campaigning the 
mens dormitories were to be built 
at last. Hammerschlag had ar
ranged for the construction of two 
buildings, each to house one hun
dred students. The dorms were to 
be comfortable, hygienic, and 
democratic.
Willard Fight 
There would be no richman or 
poor-man units. Each student 
would be free to come and go as he 
pleased. Carnegie depended on 
the discretion and sense of pro
portion of each resident to gov
ern him.
The Radio Club heard Willard 
put the kibosh on Johnston 
in the 26th round on their re
ceiving set. This set was built 
from odds and ends brought in by 
the members.
A letter to the editor complain
ed of the high cost of food in the 
so-called non-profit cafeterias on 
campus.
Guild Carnival
In order to raise $100 for the Lil
lian Rest Home, the Womens 
Guild was to hold a carnival on 
the following Wednesday. Fortune 
telling, a fashion show, and a taxi 
dance were planned. Pictures of 
professors were to be hung on the 
walls, and students could throw 
three baseballs at the faces for five 
cents.
Lottie Collins who made famous 
that haunting melody, Ta Ra 
Ra Boom De Aye, was scheduled 
to hold a premier in Pittsburgh at 
the Davis Theatre the following 
week.
At the University of Illinois stu
dents petitioned the faculty for a 
return to old-style dancing, the 
two-step and waltz instead of the 
riotous new steps.
The Plugger 
Princetonian frosh were not per
mitted to participate'm baseball on 
campus, use the main walks, wear 
silk hats or play marbles, the 
latter privilege being reserved for 
upperclassmen.
In the Pittsburgh Athletic As
sociation Track Meet at Duquesne 
Gardens, Jack L. King of Chicago 
broke the high jump record with a 
leap of five feet, ten inches.
The most admired Carnegie man 
in 1915 was not the football hero, 
the scientific genius, or the good 
dancer. He was the plugger. A 
plugger was defined as a person 
who lived quietly, plugged away 
at his studies, never shone, but 
was tarnished. These ever-dependable pluggers were the back
bone of the nation. How little 
did the plugger dream that he 
would someday lose his popularity 
to the glamor boy.
HyA H.Ew1 4, 
-E LE2R33eNE4
Among the nations engineering 
colleges, the Carnegie Tech R.O.T. 
C. stands forth in the number of 
officers commissioned from 1916 to 
1940, Col. Oscar O. Kuentz, pro
fessor of military science and tac
tics at Tech, revealed today.
In this period 544 Carnegie Tech 
R.O.T.C. graduates have received 
commissions. A recent compila
tion of records shows this total to 
have been exceeded only by Vir
ginia Polytechnic Institute, Ala
bama Polytechnic Institute, and 
Colorado School of Mines.
Parade Tonight
Carnegie Tech also stands fourth 
among engineering colleges in the 
percentage of students enrolled in 
the R.O.T.C. advanced course at 
present, Col. Kuentz said. This 
percentage is 24.6, with 121 ad
vanced students enrolled this year.
The Carnegie Tech R.O.T.C. 
consists of a regiment of three 
battalions with two companies 
each. Companies are composed of 
three platoons. Two units, En
gineer Corps and Signal Corps, are 
maintained. The public will have 
an opportunity to view a formal 
dress parade of this outfit as a 
feature of Techs Annual Exhibi
tion tonight.
Lol32YA2 y3AR3 F7 pU.A-A.A27 L23.2l
Vo zG33 D3RoS 
If you feel like a game of pingpong, checkers, chess or bridge; 
if you are looking for a quiet 
room in which to study during 
lunch hour; if your campus or
ganization wants to hold a meet
ing, party, tea, dance, or even a 
not-too-noisy jam session: the 
Carnegie Union is the place for 
you.
Occupying an entire block on 
Forbes street, between Devon 
Road and Beeler street, the new 
Carnegie Union is open at all 
times as an activities center for 
students and alumni. The activ
ities room on the first floor is the 
scene of lectures, meetings, teas, 
and bridge parties. Also on the 
main ,floor is an inviting lounge 
well-stocked with books, a de
lightful sun-porch, and an enjoy
able game room. Dining rooms
Radio Chib Shows 
Short Wave Set 
As Prize Exhibit
zo j7 67
The Reputation of drawing one 
of the largest crowds on Exhibi
tion night belongs to the Radio 
Club despite the fact that four 
ights of stairs must be ascended 
to reach its small room in the top 
of Engineering Hall.
A visitor who makes his way 
to the room at any time is made 
welcome by members of the club 
who instantly begin explaining 
all about their equipment. Their 
prize possession is one of the fin
est short-wave receivers made, 
which was purchased for them 
by the Physics department to re
place the set that was stolen last 
year.
Short-Wave Set 
With the announcement that 
this set will receive anything 
from long wave broadcast down 
to 10 meters, one of the students 
% begins an explanation of the en
tire setup. This explanation 
consists mostly of words like 
modulation, frequency, S-meters, 
rectifiers, CQ signals, electrons, 
potentials, and PA, but there are 
some few words that the visitor 
recognizes. Thereupon the dem
onstrator calls the Molecular 
Physics department for permis
sion t ogo on the air. He ex
plains that this is necessary since 
the radio signals disrupt some 
of the experiments carried onin 
that department.
.World Map 
If he is fortunate the visitor 
may hear a conversation with an
other radio ham over the ether. 
Although they have contacted 
persons all over the world at 
present they are only allowed to 
talk to persons in the United 
States or its possessions. The vis
itors attention is called to a large 
great-circle map of the world. 
There are sixteen sectors radiat
ing from Pittsburgh on this map. 
Controlled by the rotary antenna 
on the roof, the map shows in 
which direction the broadcast is 
being sent. In order to work 
the Philippines for example, the 
antenna is turned until the sec
tor containing the Philippines 
lights up.
After a perilous trip to the 
roof, the visitor leaves the Tech 
hams, trying to remember a 
small part of what he has seen 
and heard.
are available for private lunches 
and dinners. On the second floor 
are found two sorority meeting 
rooms, a poudre room for the 
girls, a Student Council confer
ence room, and the Y. M. C. A. 
headquarters.
The Newman club and the Citcom Clan regularly hold social 
events in the Union. Sororities 
and Fraternities are also welcome 
to hold meetings, parties, or any 
social events there.
The Unions greatest assets are 
Mrs. Charles Yon and Mrs. Pat
terson, the charming resident 
hostesses. They have done much 
to create a friendly atmosphere 
and wish all students to realize 
that they are free at any time to 
come and enjoy the facilities of 
their own activities center. In 
spite of their splendid service 
they modestly give credit to the 
Student body for the fact that the 
Union is always in good order.
However ,all is not play and 
pleasant times at the Carnegie
Client Engineering 
Is Separate Dept. 
From Chemistry
zo u7 d7
One of the newest and yet old
est departments of Carnegie is the 
Chemical Engineering Department. 
Dating back to the founding of the 
school, the department was orig
inally a branch of the Department 
of Chemistry. With the develop
ment of chemical engineering as 
an independent science and the re
placement of rule-of-thumb meth
ods by scientific procedures, it be
came necessary to separate the two 
departments.
Reorganization
Many persons still confuse 
chemistry which is applied in gen
eral laboratory practice, and 
chemical engineering involving 
large quantities, the environment
al conditions which influence the 
reaction and the economic factors 
concerned.
This inevitable break occurred in 
1933 at Carnegie. New members 
were added to the full-time and 
part-time staffs. A curriculum had 
to be worked out which would fit 
the needs of industrial concerns. 
Contacts with the latter were 
made and kept intact so that im
portant changes could be taken 
into account.A new laboratory with modem 
commercial size equipment was 
built. In addition Dr. Ernst Berl 
was imported from Germany to 
head the newly-formed research
Union. On the third floor are lo
cated the offices of all the major 
publications. Real sweat and toil 
go into the publishing of the 
Dorm Bagpiper, the Scottie, the 
Technical, the Thistle, and the 
TARTAN.
Whether you are interested in 
school publications or social 
events, bridge or badminton, 
luncheons or jam-sessions, re
member the Carnegie Union is 
yours to enjoy and use.
LRrrR37 F7 
,Pvp2lR moAah
course in chemical engineering. 
Graduate students came to Car
negie from many of the leading 
schools of the country.
Research
At present the Chemical En
gineering Department devotes half 
of its time and effort to graduate 
work. Research work is being 
done in thermodynamics, heat 
transmission, fluid flow, crystal
lization, petroleum, cellulose, and 
absorption. Enrollment in the de
partment hit an all time high of 
142 this year.Visitors to the Chemical Engin
eering laboratory will see industrial-size process equipment in 
action. Commercial processes of 
crushing, grinding, evaporating, 
and crystallization will be on dis
play.The new, yet old, Chemical En
gineering department will grant 
its first doctors degree this year.
zo 67 j7
Yep, old Doc Brashear, Uncle 
John to everyone who know him, 
did some mighty fine oratng at the 
christening back in April 18.
You see, the boys from Wash
ington set up engineering train
ing headquarters at Tech, jest like 
theyre doin now. At that there 
time, the radio was just like a 
baby. Airplanes needed radios, 
so they started the Servico School 
for Radio Mechanics. That school 
was the only one outside the reg
ular army camps.
Pretty soon the airplanes ar
rived. They needed some place 
to keep em and they decided to 
build a hangar-lab. The designer 
had lots of trouble, but finally de
cided that a long, 220 feet, and 
small, one story building would do 
the trick. Out of the 16 buildings 
built during the war, theres only 
.one other leftthe Hut.
Man you should have seen the 
boys go to work. In 23 working 
days, the lab was finishedeven 
to the putty on the windows.
I cant still figure out why they 
had such a elaborate dedication. 
All you heard was speed it up, 
step up the pace. Yet they took 
time and money to have a cere
mony.
Old Doc, being a trustee of the 
college, asked for the privilege 
of naming the lab after an old 
friend of his, Samuel Pierpont 
Langley. This Langley fellow, a 
astromastronstar gazer, was a 
Danny Boone in flying. Hes sup
posed to be the first to show that 
machines could be made to fly.
At the dedication, the lawn in 
front of the Arts building was 
mobbed; a 100 piece military band 
kept playing marching songs; over 
a thousan soldiers stood at atten
tion and airplanes dipped their 
flaps as they went over the crowd. 
Boy, what a sight.
After the war was over, the 
Langley Lab was used for practic
ally everything. While they were 
putting up the Gym, the boys used 
the Lab instead. When lecturers 
came to Tech, the Lab usually 
served for an auditorium. For 
awhile, the lab became one of 
the outstanding attractions as far 
as the engineers were concerned 
arts students held life classes 
there. As long as there were life 
classes, the lab did not suffer 
from desertion.
There was a time when the lab 
was used as a registration room. 
Within the past three years it has 
been used as a storage quarter, 
automobile lab, and ROTC arsenal. 
For a long time, part of it has been 
used as the cafeteria, The Bean
ery. This year, they remodeled 
another part of it, giving the 
freshie dramats a place to fool 
around and practice acting.
Mebbe in a coupla years the.lab 
will be torn down. No one knows, 
only time and necessity will tell. 
Mebbe theyll use the old lab as a 
barracks again.
LR7.Hr2 ,U7 
4R12O F3 cEr
VR3AYI.x bxgd
zo 7 T.
One of (he most colorful events 
taking place on Exhibition night 
is the annual fashion show to be 
held in the Mens Gym at 8 
o clock. Only one performance 
will be given, since the show lasts 
approximately two hours.
The clothes are made and mod
eled by members of the Costume 
Economics Department under the 
direction of Miss Virginia G. Alex
ander and Mrs. Vincent Paisi. 
Kaufmanns supplies the mate
rials, accessories, and patterns for 
the costumes. The girls choose 
their own costumes and complete 
them under departmental super
vision during a five weeks period. 
Some are made without the aid of 
a pattern since the girls are allow
ed to use their own original ideas. 
Grades are given as a part of the 
project, and the girls are allowed 
to keep the costumes after the 
show is over.
The style show is built, as in 
past years, around a central theme. 
Two years ago the modern idea 
was used and a costume made en
tirely of tin was worn by one of 
the girls. Tonights show will 
feature color, and in each scene 
only one color will predominate.
In order of presentation the col
ors chosen are: mauve to beige to 
brown, blues including powder 
and navy blue, green, and intense 
spectral colors such as brilliant 
yellow, vermillion red, and grass 
green. The last scene will be pa
triotic in character, the colors be
ing red, white, and blue combina
tions.
Climax of the stylo show is a 
military wedding with Betty Shanor, 42, as the bride. She will 
wear a white satin suit, pearl 
epaulettes, and a short tulle veil. 
Nine officers from the Reserve Offlcors Training Corps will assist 
at the wedding, these o(Tlcors all 
being students.
Outstanding Costumes 
Outsandlng eostumcs have al
ready been selected for each 
scone. Tn the first scone Helen 
Crumpton, M1, wears a plaid coot 
over a belego dress with brown 
accessories. The outstanding cos
tume In the second scono Is worn 
by Elovelyn Thomas, '4.1, who 
models a blue and white striped 
sharkskin dross. The skirt Is 
pleated with the blue on the un
der side of the pleats. Tn the 
third scene Margaret Slucholl, 42, 
models on afternoon dress of green 
crepe with a pleated skirt and 
bows of contrasting color. In tho 
fourth scene Jeanne Howard, '42, 
wears sweeping lounging paja
mas of purple and green silk. 
Penny Taylor, 41. models a cos
tume In the last scene that was 
selected as the best In the entire 
show. It is composed of an 
evening dress of white silk jer
sey and a silk cope with a red and 
blue stripe.
Besides the fashion show the 
Costume Economics Department 
will have rooms on the second 
floor of Margaret Morrison devot
ed to drawing, designing, textiles, 
actual sewing and draping of dum
mies. One especiolly interesting 
feature will show how cloth may 
be dyed various colors. The cloth 
is first dyed the background col
or, this being covered with wax, 
leaving exposed only those parts 
necessary for further dyeing. 
Each part is successively dyed 
and waxed until an entire pic
ture or design is imprinted on 
the cloth. The wax is then re
moved with a chemical solution 
and the cloth is ready for use.
In the textile rooms charts 
will show the origin of various 
materials such as rayon which 
comes from cellulose actete Dif
ferent weaves of material will be 
displayed and their diderencs not
ed. Women will be instructed 
how to buy the best grades of ma
terial and how to moke sure that 
inferior grades are not obtained.
Prize French 
Movie Presented
Carnegie students and friends 
will have a chance to see and hear 
the French sound film Harvest 
which last year won the first prize 
awarded by the Academy of Mo
tion Pictures for foreign films. 
The film is in French but will have 
English sub-titles.
Two showings have been ar
rangedone during the regular 
11:30 chapel hour on Tuesday, 
April 29 in the Little Theater, and 
a second special performance that 
evening at 8:15 in Room 104, In
dustries, for those students and 
friends who are unable to attend 
the 11:30 showing. Admission for 
both performances is free and no 
tickets will be required.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN_________________________________________________________FRIDAY, APRIL 25, 1941
Campus Publications
zo .mw 6,R2N 
The student body at Tech sup
ports a number of publications, 
which integrate the students with 
their environment. The purposes 
of these are varied, some giving 
the student a means of express
ing himself, some spreading news, 
and others having their justifica
tion in their entertaining value. 
Positions on all the publications 
are competitive, and journalism 
is one activity that is open to 
everyone. Each student stands on 
his own merit, and the only bar
rier is complete lack of talent. 
The publications are important 
to college life for the student 
and also for the school, for it is 
through these that many outsid
ers meet Tech and learn to ap
preciate it.
The Thistle is the Carnegie 
Tech year book. Published annu
ally by a staff of juniors, it con
tains pictures of the graduating 
class, comments on the seniors, 
and a review of the events of 
the past school year. Editor Tom 
Riley and his staff are working 
on this years edition.
Tri-Publications
Tri-Publications Stall is re
sponsible for the Student Hand
book, better known as the Plebe 
Bible. This is the diary-like book 
that all students carry with them. 
It contains general information 
about the three colleges, and a 
calendar of all school events. 
Activities, Sororities, Fraterni
ties, infox-mation about the vari
ous departments are all contain
ed in it. Freshmen hold it to be 
particularly valuable for it helps 
them become orientated and to 
enter into the activities of the 
student body. The Tri Publica
tions staff also prepares the 
Student Directory and editions 
of the Carnegie Songbook.
The Scottie, Techs well-known 
wit dispenser, has a reputation 
for humor that has spread far 
from the campus. Contributions 
from students are of two types: 
Art, including cartoons and hum
orous drawings, and editorial 
humor, such as jokes, parodies, 
and poems. Each month the mag
azine is sent to subscribers and 
sold at newsstands. The staff, un
der Editor Betty Mechling, keeps 
the humor on a high level, and 
each issue is looked forward to 
by the students.
A digest of current engineerinformation and fact is the
Carnegie Technical. The purpose 
of this periodical is to present the 
wealth of scientific material used 
at Tech to interested students. 
Articles are drawn from both the 
faculty and student body. Five 
issues are scheduled to appear 
this year. The magazine came in
to existence in 1930, and hopes to 
expand as it progresses. J. Les
ter Cullen is the editor and appreci
ation of his work is evidenced by 
the Technicals increasing circu
lation.
Small Publications
Soon to go to press is the 
campus literature magazine called 
The Bard. Alpha Chi Alpha, 
Womans journalistic honorary, 
together with Pi Delta Epsilon, 
mens honorary, founded The 
Bard three years ago. Literary 
contributions are solicited from 
the students, and anyone with an 
idea well presented has the op
portunity to see it in print. The 
Bard is a completely student af
fair, and even the printing is 
done in the printing department 
by student printers. It appeared 
as a supplement to the Tartan 
last year; this year it is complete
ly in the hands of the womans 
honorary. The Bard is distributed 
free to all students, and is a 
worthy gift from Alpha Chi Al
pha.
The Dorm Bagpiper is the
Dormitories answer to the prob
lem of circulating news that is 
of interest only to Dorm dwellers, 
and so can not be handled by 
other papers. It is a complete 
newspaper supported by the ac
tivities fee collected by the Dorm 
Council. Both men and women 
who live at Tech receive the pa
per free, and news is solicited 
from appropriate sources. This 
year, because of financial condi
tions the Bagpiper is being mim
eographed.
A new paper on the campus is 
the Citcommentator. The Citcom 
Clan has expanded this year and 
felt the need of an organ to no
tify the members of activities and 
keeping them informed on Citcom 
news. It is free to all Clan mem
bers, appears weekly, and is sup
ported from their annual dues.
The Cut, a pictorial newspaper, 
has blossomed on the campus this 
semester. Its purpose is to pre
sent local news that other sources supposedly handle inadequate
ly. It appears weekly and is sold 
at five cents per copy._____________
4oYYA2 4HlTI7i SUA23U2 
moB7 ,rHOo.2 F31H7.lE
Early Tech Pays
C2o1 Ru 6IE7AU7 t2Tol.r23. 
02Oo.27 ,PT2lA23U27 F3 m2U.Hl2
zo u7 d7
Carnegie was not always the 
settled, ivy-covered, stately insti
tution that we know today. A 
good example of this can be drawn 
from the experiences of one pro
fessor in the early days of Car
negie. Harry S. Hower, present 
head of the Physics Department, 
was the individual concerned.
In those days ballooning was a 
dangerous but popular sport. A 
famous balloonist had moored his 
craft on Flagstaff Hill. He was 
preparing to ascend that after
noon in an exhibition flight. Be
ing a physicist and also being in
terested in the buoyancy effects of 
gas-filled bags, Hower was stand
ing on the hill curiously watching 
the pilot (called an aeronaut in 
those days) making final prepara
tions. Overcome by his curiosity, 
Hower could not resist climbing 
into the basket to inspect the 
equipment. With him was also a 
young lady who was there on a 
similar mission. Both of them
were so engaged in their obser
vations that they did not notice 
the entrance of the pilot who had 
now completed his preparation, 
and was ready for the ascent. Be
fore either of them knew it the 
balloon was in the air. To their 
alarm a swift breeze caught the 
huge bag and sent it on its merry 
way.
Before long all scenery had 
faded into an indistinct blur. The 
pilot, overjoyed at having such 
charming guests, merrily informed 
them that they were no longer in 
the city of Pittsburgh. Now an
other breeze caught the bag, but 
this time sent it down. Hower no
ticed that the expedition was in 
great danger of suffering a disas
trous end, for the balloon headed 
toward a church steeple at an 
alarming rate. The sharp steeple 
top threatened to pierce the bal
loon or Hower or both. With only 
a few feet to spare, Hower desper
ately began to bale out sandbags. 
Slowly the craft began to rise,
Mail Man
Delivery Aided By 
U. S. Post Office
zo zIS yNGm,e.EE 
One of the latest improvements 
on the Tech campus has been the 
United States Postoffice located 
in the basement of Administra
tion Hall. In, previous years, Tech 
students were obliged to travel 
down to the Oakland Postoffice 
to cash money orders or to regis
ter mail. Under the new contract, 
Techs postoffice will take care of 
these orders in addition to its 
former duties.
The contract also grants gov
ernment funds for purchasing 
stamps. This money was form
erly provided by the school.
The government postoffice was 
opened March 1st with Mrs. Wag
ner continuing in charge of the 
Tech mail as she has been for the 
past nine years.
The first postoffice was estab
lished in 1914 and was located 
across from the front steps of 
Administration Hall. Later it *as 
moved downstairs to its present 
location.
missing destruction by inches.
Nothing more occurred for a 
quarter of an hour. Then, how
ever, two farmers, mistaking the 
balloon for an evil bird, began to 
take pot shots at it with a rifle. 
Using the young ladys petticoat 
as a distress signal, However, con
veyed to the men that the expedi
tion was intent on no harm. After 
an hour more of soaring around, 
the party finally succeeded in 
landing. The happy aeronaut, the 
shaken Hower, and the petticoatless lady took a train back to the 
city.
Thus ended the incident which 
has since formed the subject of 
many of Professor Howers inter
esting lectures, and thus ends this 
account of a period in Carnegie 
life which has passed into the dim 
realm of long ago.
Vitamins, Medicines, 
Dyes Synthesized; 
Guncotton Exhibited
zo  7y7
Margaret Morrisons Science 
Department is located almost en
tirely in what may be called the 
basement of the building, al
though it is on a ground level 
with the tennis courts. The first 
laboratory is devoted entirely to 
general and organic chemistry. 
The second laboratory is given 
over to physiological chemistry, 
qualitative and quantitative an
alysis. The lasf two labs are used 
for bacteriology, zoology, and 
embryology.
In these laboratories students 
learn how to make many things 
valuable to industrymedicines, 
dyes, explosives, and foods. Ex
hibits have been arranged to 
demonstrate the parallelism be
tween the students work and in
dustry. The making of soap and 
glycerine by hydrolysis and 
saponification is shown. Fraction
al distillations show how. distilled 
water may be obtained and how 
other substances may be purified. 
The method of treating viscous 
fibers for certain materials is 
demonstrated.
One demonstration that is not 
allowed to go to completion for 
obvious reasons is the making of 
T.N.T This substance, trinitro
toluene, is made by nitrating to
luene, a benzene derivative. 
However, small amounts of gun
cotton are made. Cotton is soaked 
for half an hour in a cooled mix
ture of nitric and sulphuric acids. 
After being washed and dried 
this will explode when given a 
sudden blow.
Vitamins are found not only in 
foods, but have been synthesized 
in the laboratory. Vitamins A and 
C will be shown.
The bacteriology labs will show 
how bacteria are isolated from 
water and milk. Blood smears, 
identifying dangerous organisms, 
will also be made.
Goes
FARTHER...Before You Add a Quart
@ When it comcs to lubrication and the distance you can drive 
before you have to add a quart . . . theres not another motor oil 
that will give the results of Gulfpride.
This 100% pure Pennsylvania oil, you see, is refined not only 
by ordinary methods but also by Gulfs famous Alchlor process. 
By virtue of this super-refining, Gulfpride forms less carbon, gum, 
and varnish in your engine. It stays "up longer . . . vaporizes 
more slowly . . . lubricates better.
Today, why not change to Gulfpride? Its 
available wherever you see the familiar Sign of 
the Gulf Orange Disc and it costs not a penny 
more than many other premium quality oils.Gulf Oil Corporation . . . Gulf Refining Company.

---------------------------------------------------

Engineering Depts.
Engineers Trained in Theory 
And Mechanical Details Also
Fine Arts School >
Architecturej Paintingj Musich 
Sculpture9 Drama Courses Given
Hlargar<t i^Iorrisam
Nursing, Science, Social Work, 
Secretarial, Sewing Included
Vo s.I3 uIGE4,N2
Metallurgy, chemical engineer
ing, mechanical engineering, civil 
engineering, electrical engineer
ing, aeronautics, plumbing heat
ing and ventilating, and manage
ment engineering are the courses 
offered to the prospective engin
eer at Teck.
Included in the curricula of the 
Engineering School is a four-year 
course in Printing; the only de
gree course in this work offered 
in the country. In this department 
the student learns the elements 
of managing a printing plant, the 
maintenance of machinery, the 
fundamentals of advertising lay
out and production, and gets 
practical experience in press 
work and linotyping.
Techs Management Engineers 
are trained in the duties and 
functions related to the estab
lishment of an enterprise, its 
financing, and the determination 
of its policies. Since it is desir
able to approach the problems of 
management' with the methods of 
a scientist, the Tech Manage
ments are given instruction in 
machine design, hydraulic engin
eering, electrical engineering, and 
metallurgy. Thus we can say that 
the fellow who graduates from 
Tech in Management Engineering 
is one well trained in applying 
engineering methods to problems 
of business management.
Although most people connect 
Civil Engineers with little else 
but surveying, Techs Civils re
ceive a much broader education 
than that. The training of the Civ
il is divided into three sections: 
structural, route and hydraulic 
engineering. The structural en
gineer is concerned mostly with 
the designing and building of 
bridges, dams, viadu ts, and 
towers; the route engineer builds 
and designs railways, highways 
and water-ways and manages air
ways; the problems of the hy
draulic engineer are concerned 
mostly with the control of water 
power. Besides this specialized 
study they are given training in 
sanitary engineering and in solv
ing the engineering problems of 
a large city. The Tech Civil En
gineer is also given instruction 
in electrical and mechanical en
gineering.
With the large metallurgical in
dustry that has grown up in the 
Pittsburgh area it is fitting that 
Tech should offer the best course 
in Metallurgy that is given in 
America. Metallurgists are given 
courses in ferrous and non-fer
rous, physical and mechan
ical metallurgy. In these 
they are taught how to control 
industrial operations, how to con
duct research in the production, 
fabrication, and extraction of use
ful materials. They receive much 
helpful guidance and counsel 
from the metallurgical officials in 
the Pittsburgh industriesmen 
known throughout the country.
The chemical engineers at CIT 
are trained in the design, development and operation of pro
cesses in which chemical and 
physical properties occur. Dr. 
Ernst Berl, world-famed author
ity on cellulose chemistry trains 
all of Techs Chemicals in this 
vital subject. They also receive 
courses in plant-operation, in re
search, and in the development 
and design of equipment. Cours
es in physical and electro-chemis
try are offered and much oppor
tunity is given the student for 
private research. A thesis is re
quired for graduation.
Future mechanical engineers at 
Tech may choose between three 
options in this department. There 
is the Straight Mechanical 
course in which the engineer is 
trained in thermodynamics ma
chine design, hydraulics and in 
the behavior of steam, air and 
gas. Fellows who want to take 
part in the defense program a 
few years from now by turning 
out airplanes must take the Aer
onautical option. They are 
taught aerodynamics, plane con
struction, and design. Those who 
are interested in solving the prob
lems of air conditioning, heating 
and plumbing take the P. H. & V. 
option. They also take courses in 
sanitary engineering and electric
al engineering. All of the Me
chanicals take courses in elec
trical engineering, and all of 
them have the same courses for 
the first two years.
Westinghouse Manufacturing 
Company, General Electric, and 
the rest of the large electrical 
concerns think very highly of 
electrical engineers who have 
graduated from Tech. They are 
highly pleased with the practical 
training Tech graduates have re
ceived. Alternating current and 
direct current motors, inductance 
circuits and a few subjects in the 
Mechanical Engineering Depart
ment are some of the courses in 
which they are trained.
In addition to these courses, 
Tech also gives degrees for four 
years of work in Mathematics, 
Physics, and Chemistry. All en
gineers, no matter what course 
they have elected, must take a 
year of chemistry, physics and 
descriptive geometry and two 
years of mathematics besides a 
summer of shop-work. Also a 
year of English and four years of 
social relations are the liberal 
arts courses required for gradugraduation.
Tech engineers do not only 
learn how to use a handbook and 
sliderule; their engineering sub
jects are very liberally inter
spersed with foreign languages, 
economics, history and public 
speaking. Not only are the cours
es designed to give a mastery of 
the fundamental scientific prin
ciples and their application to 
the solution of engineering prob
lems, but they are designed to 
give a clear understanding of the 
parallel growth of science and 
engineering with social customs, 
social relations, and institutions.
Vo s7
For students with special tal
ents in the arts, Tech offers one 
of the best curricula in the coun
try. Architecture, Painting and 
Design, Music, Sculpture, and 
Drama are the courses offered in 
the School of Fine Arts.
Students who register in the 
Department of Architecture may 
either major in construction work 
and architectural design or in in
terior decorating. The courses in 
architecture require five years 
for a degree. All architects take 
the same courses the first three 
years, and then special instruc
tion is given depending on the 
particular interest of (the student.
Courses in the Department of 
General Studies, which all archi
tects should have a working 
knowledge of, are Heal Estate, 
Money and Banking, and Public 
Speaking. The course in interior 
decorating takes four years. After 
the first two years it is much the 
same as a modified course in 
painting and design. The Ameri
can Academy in Home, as well as 
experts in the building industry 
in Pittsburgh lend the depart
ment valuable aid.
Instruction in singing, playing 
instruments or music teaching, 
is offered to students by the 
Music Department. For those who 
elect the instrumental option, spe
cial emphasis is placed on work 
with the piano or organ. All stu
dents must put in some time with 
the Tech orchestra. Later, in case 
they wish to give training in the 
instrument in which they are ma
joring, the Instrument Majors
G.
teaching. The Department has 
made it possible for a student to 
work toward two degrees in 
music from any of the three op
tions. This, however, requires at 
least live years.
The Department of Painting 
and Design offers three courses in 
which the student can major. 
Those who wish to be painters or 
illustrators take subjects like 
Modeling, Still-Life, Landscape 
Painting, Color, Etching, and 
Lithography. * Those who will be 
designing the automobiles and 
the airplanes of the future (the 
Industrial Designers) receive 
training in industrial design, the 
construction of figures, industrial 
processes, and model-making. 
Some may want to teach art, and 
the opportunity of earning a de
gree is available at Tech. They 
take the same subjects as the 
others, with teaching methods 
added. All of the Artists must 
take electives in the General 
Studies Department just like 
other Techites. Fine facilities are 
provided for elective work in 
Graphic Arts (or the illustration 
of printed material).
Actors, playwrights, producers, 
and drama teachers are all grad
uated irom the Drama Depart
ment at Tech. These students 
stage fine productions in the Lit
tle Theatre. It is interesting to 
note that many professional ac
tors and directors from all over 
the country lend their assistance 
to the production of these plays. 
Actors of the future get training 
in rehearsal and performance,
can take courses which will qual
ify them as teachers. Future con
cert and opera stars take "the 
same subjects as the other music 
students except that Public Per
formance and Modern Languages 
are substituted for instrumental 
work or teaching. Students who 
wish to teach music in the pub
lic schools must also obtain a de
gree from the Department of 
Music. In this course they learn 
the principles of orchestra con
ducting, ensemble work, music 
appreciation, and community 
music as well as the principles of
Vo s
Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
, College, or Maggie Murph as 
it is affectionately called by Teehites, is the branch of Tech spe
cifically dedicated to the educa
tion of young women.
Here the girls learn dietetics, 
nursing, science, teaching in some 
fields, costume economics, and 
secretarial practice. A general 
college course is also offered, 
presenting courses in Modern 
Languages, History, English, So
cial Work, and other purely cul
tural subjects. Degree work in 
these courses is possible only for 
the girls in Maggie Murph.
Two years of History and Eng
lish and a year each of Chemis
try or Physics and Biology are 
required courses to qualify for a 
degree. In addition to these sub
jects each girl may take an elec
tive in any of the three colleges 
with special emphasis on subjects 
pertaining to her major.
A special arrangement with the 
West Penn Hospital allows the 
nurses of the future to come to 
Tech for their first two years, go 
to the Hospital for their third 
and fourth years and return to 
Tech for the fifth year to obtain a 
nursing degree. In this way they 
become registered nurses and get 
a college degree in five years. 
Supplementing their work in the 
hospital is some specialized work 
done in Allentown, Pa. iit the 
State Hospital for the Insane.
Girls who wish to become sec
retaries will find all their wants 
satisfied at Tech. Each girt starts 
obtaining actual office practlcp 
from the firms in Pittsburgh dur
ing the summer months of her 
junior and senior years. In this 
wav the secrctarials are given
FFORBES
CLEANING
AND
TAILORING 
S^' COMPANY
PHONE 
MA. 9728
HONEST PRICES 
FAITHFUL PROMISES
G.
enough experience to qualify for 
positions after graduation. Be
sides the shorthand, typing, and 
office practice that go with the 
course, the girls must take sub
jects like Business Law, Corpora
tion Finance, and Money and 
Banking.
Degrees in Mathematics, Phys
ics, Chemistry, and Biology are 
offered by the Department of 
General Science. In case the girl 
so desires, she can take her Math 
or Physics in the college of En
gineering. Higher Math is taught 
by the Engineering Math profes
sors, since Margaret Morrison 
doesnt offer these subjects. Quan
titative Analysis, Organic Chem
istry, Physical Chemistry, Physi
ology, Qualitative-Analysis, and 
Microscopy are some of the courses 
given to the General Science ma
jors.
Caring for the needs of the un
der-privileged requires a person 
with a good education. Such an 
education is given to the girls of 
the Social Work Department. Like 
the nurses thfey are given much 
training in the Psychological topice such as Abnormal Psychology 
and Educational Measurements. 
Some of the gii'ls even work in 
nursing courses in addition to 
Social Studies so that they can 
be of more service. During their 
last two years, in the summers, 
they are sent to settlement hous
es in the Pittsburgh area.
Future dieticians and house
wives learn their trades in the 
Department of Household Eco
nomics. In these courses the girls 
learn the principles of prepar
ing and preserving foods as well 
as the correct foods to serve. 
Many of their subjects are chemARE4GEINS RE T.TR C
voice, and speech and a modern 
language. The future Capras and 
Fords substitute stage directing, 
costume design, and electricity 
and lighting for the subjects of 
the acting majors. Those who 
wish to be playwrights or teacheis must take subjects like Dra
matic Composition and Stage Di
recting. All Dramats must 
take Aesthtics, Psychology, Dra
matic Literature, a modern lan
guage, and a departmental elec
tive.
The Department of Sculpture 
ARE4GEINS RE T.UN f
Hear
I7ISlE
b7, tmoiicas No.1
V Bond loader Donee
AReT3GeNE41 Rn
ENAPP BROTHERS CO.
PURVEYORS OF QUALITY SEAFOOD
116-18 Boulevard of the Allies 115-17 Diamond Street 
ATlantic 0175
_ FRIDAY, APRIL 25, 1941 THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Carnegie fters Wide Variety In Curricula
Copyright 1941, Licotrr Ct Mvtm
Chartered Coach Service
HRMONY SHORT LINE
Call 
Special 
Coach Dept.
Phone
COurt
4500

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANFRIDAY, APRIL 25, 1941
Lol32YA2 GAOO tRHBO2 F.7 
4R32E A3  '2ol7 kzM9
6,R0E .VRhN .2N . T.24 Rn 4,N V.UTGTN2 1Nm4GRE Rn 4,N dG34GN z.ES7 
z.UTGTN1 0N2N .SSNS 4R 4,N dG34GN z.ES 4,G1 oN.2 4,2RIU, 4,N UNEv
N2R1G4o Rn j217 HRVN24 L7 YR,N24o .ES 4,N 14ISNE41 4,Ne1N3hN17
Photo by Larry Miller.Origin Q> KiHh-s
LRORlu HO LR7.Hr27 Du fo31 
G2l2 tAuuAUHO. VR 6HlUIo72
Vo uG3VN24
In the autumn of 1908 seven 
students gathered to form an or
ganization of brass instruments 
for the sole purpose of raising a 
racket at football games. Despite 
their efforts all that they could 
gather together was four cornets, 
two alto players and a brass horn. 
The noise at foolball games, how
ever, grew louder and louder unitl by 1911 the group had become 
a recognized activity on campus, 
subsidized by the Board of Stu
dent Activities. They were now 
fully equipped in blue uniforms 
and had a brass drum which help
ed considerably in making the 
hornblowers feel like a real band. 
For ten years after that the or
ganization kept on its noisy way, 
performing yeomen service at 
Carnegie Day parades, smokers, 
and athletic games.
Then in 1920 the drum major of 
the band, Luther J. Morris 23, had 
a brilliant inspiration. Iiis idea 
was to buy a costume of kilts and 
a huge bearskin headgear. Thus 
he would stand out above the 
others as leader and would pay 
honor to the Founder, Andrew 
Carnegie. It was not long before 
someone thought of equipping the 
whole band in similar fashion. 
Money was not readily forthcom
ing, but a special committee of 
Student Council finally succeeded 
in obtaining three thousand dol
lars to buy fifty-six outfits. Chief 
contributions were made by the 
Athletic Association, the Alumni
Praetlce Slmiw*:
dGhNE1RE
Federation, and by Student Coun
cil itself. A professor who had 
donated a small sum and who had 
five daughters remarked when 
making his contribution that he 
had never expected to have to buy 
skirts for the boys, too.
The band made its first offi
cial appearance at the Notre 
Dame game at Forbes Field on 
November 25, 1922. It caused a 
mild sensation.
The band had ,as one of its most 
capable and colorful directors, Mr. 
Edward F. Sullivan, affectionately 
known as Sully who helped' it 
through its bright and gloomy 
phases from 1913 to his death in 
1938.
The uniform of the band con
sists of eleven separate parts  
kilt, plaid, sporran, hose, tops, gar
ters, spats, belt, glengarry, belt 
buckle, and plaid buckle. Many 
find it a complex task to climb 
into one of these outfits for the 
first time, but the band manager 
who has to see that all the equip
ment is kept clean, replaced when 
worn out, and returned every 
June for re-issuance in the fall has 
a much more involved job. 
Blankets to keep knees warm dur
ing chill afternoons are furnish
ed by Evening Student Council. 
Bagpipes are now part of the 
equipment and the shrill blast of 
the latter accompanied by the 
swirl of the pibrochs has added 
the final touch of the country 
across the sea so dear to our 
Founder.
CRHS2OARO1j CRr2 ,Ui7 m2ol3 
42.IR17 Ru CRr2vroNA3Y
Vo R.EEN yG1,3.2Gm,
Dorm students are given a 
change of scene and commuters 
are given a chance to live on cam
pus when they enter their senior 
year in the Home Economics or 
Household Economics course. The 
practice house, situated next to 
Carnegie Inn, is just that; a place 
where classroom ideas are put into 
practice, where theories are turned 
into facts, and where the true 
fundamentals of housekeeping are 
instilled into the students.
Six girls live in the house under 
the direction of Miss Wygart for 
a total period of six weeks, al
though this is divided into two 
different parts. Each girl assumes 
for a period of five days the posi
tion of Hostess, Cook, Waitress, 
Assistant Housekeeper, House
keeper, or Laundress. Each girl 
makes her own bed and keeps her 
room in order, otherwise the duties 
are divided.
The Hostess plans the meals, 
which must contain the proper 
amount of vitamins, minerals, and 
calories as well as sta3r within the 
financial allotment. Budgets vary; 
some being very high and others 
being very low, so that the girls 
will know how to manage on all 
incomes. The Hostess does all 
the marketing and selects the re1 cipes for the Cook. She answers 
the door and telephone, takes care 
of mail and flowers, and does all 
entertaining of visitors. At her 
discretion guests may be invited 
for dinner or for tea.
The Cook naturally takes care 
of the cooking of all meals, and 
she is assisted by the Waitress who 
sets the table, sees that all uten
sils are clean, and prepares minor 
food items such as bread and but
ter. The Waitross also waits on 
table and helps the Cook with the 
dishes.
The Laundress does a full wash
ing and ironing which includes 
curtains, table cloths, sheets, and 
dish towels. All of these are aided 
at any time by the Housekeeper 
whose main duty is to dust and 
sweep and to see that the doors 
are locked. An assistant House
keeper helps with the housework 
and does mending.
The practice house itself is a 
three-story affair with ample room 
provided for the occupants. On 
the first floor is a music room, liv
ing room, dining room, and a 
kitchen fully equipped with the 
latest kitchen gadgets and neces
sities. The second floor includes 
a bath, two bedrooms, and a Nur
sery. The Cook and Hostess must 
sleep on the second floor for 
greater efficiency. On the third 
floor is a bath, two bedrooms, an^l 
a study room since the girls at
tend classes while in the practice 
house.
The Nursery which was already 
mentioned was started only last 
year by Miss Glendon, Head of 
the Household Economics Depart
ment. At present three children 
of the faculty and alumni live 
in the house. They are all under 
five years of age. The Nutrition 
II classes use the Nursery for 
observations on the whys and 
wherefores of children. The chil
dren receive excellent care, in
cluding well-balanced meals, su
pervised play, adequate rest 
periods. The Nursery is equipped 
with all manner of toys to make 
any youngster happy. There are 
tables, chairs, automobiles, dolls, 
books, a slide, drawing boards, a 
phpnograph, and wagons. It is 
hoped that next year the' Nutri
tion II classes may take over the 
care of these children for better 
experience.
Funds Will Be Used 
For New Buildings, 
Improved Campus
Vo S. M.
How would you like to double 
your money? That is just the op
portunity given to C. I. T. by the 
Carnegie Corporation of New 
York in 1.946. If by that time the 
college has raised the sum of 
$4,000,000 the Corporation will 
advance $8,000,000 more for the 
remodeling and maintenance of 
an enlarged campus.
Let us take a look at the Car
negie of 1950, as compared with 
todays campus. As we walk up 
Margaret Morrison St., we note 
that a grandstand accommodating 
3,000 people has been built 
around the bowl. No longer will 
Carnegie students splash around 
in the mud while watching in
tramural games. A new cinder 
track has been built, and George 
Athleticus has been enabled to 
establish four worlds records as 
a result. Margaret Morrison itself 
is unrecognizable with an added 
wing in the back allowing more 
girls to enter as future secietaries, nurses, scientists, home eco
nomists, social workers and writ
ers.
High on the hill we no longer 
see the separate, dormitories of 
Mellon, Whitfield, or Birch. In
stead a huge dorm hosing all the 
girls has been built with a tower 
clock striking the hour, a neces
sary item for students who must 
ever be on time. The dorm is not
only comfortable and spacious, 
but in a sense luxurious compar
ed to those formerly used.
Arts school, which is now one 
of the handsomest of the present 
buildings, remains untouched in 
1946. The tennis courts across 
from Arts remain there, but oth
ers are added in the place of the 
soccer field in 1950.
On the Cut another larger and 
better-equipped auditorium gives 
the dramats a chance to display 
their talents to larger audiences. 
Seating the whole student body, 
it is the scene for weekly chap
els. Speakers come from all parts 
of the United States to tell the 
Techites about the subjects which 
with they are most familiar and 
in which they specialize.
The beanery suffers during the 
reconstruction since it was tom 
down, and the new Administra
tion Hall erected. This is an im
pressive structure, more inspir
ing to the incoming freshmen.
Engineering Hall, always need
ing more room for its many ex
periments, has extended itself to 
the Cut, and elevators are used 
by all students to enable them to 
get to classes more quickly. 
These are the. things that will 
undoubtedly be in the future.
A feature that this reporter 
would advocate would be the in
stallation of a transportation sys
tem across the Cut, which would 
consist of chairs on a roller belt 
that would operate at the press-. 
ing of a button. This would be 
the ultimate in changing the life 
of a student.
SRUAoO DlYo3AWo.AR37
Fraternities Sororities
Vo s7 u7
Most men go to college for two 
reasons: primarily, to fit them
selves for their life-work; and sec
ondly, to learn to associate with 
their fellow-men. Most colleges 
attempt, by introducing fraterni
ties, to perform the second func
tion. It is particularly difficult for 
a school like Tech, in . large city, 
to attend to the social, as well 
as the cultural needs of the stu
dents, and do both jobs equally 
well.
There are twelve fraternities on 
our campus from which freshmen 
may choose. Most of the houses 
are located on or near Forbes 
street. The Sigma Nu, Tau Delta 
Phi, and Beta Sigma Rho houses 
are located just south of Morewood Ave. Phi Kappa is located 
on Morewood Place, a street off 
Forbes, but directly opposite the 
school campus. Grouped on Morewood Ave. are the Alpha Tau 
Omega, "Phi Itapps, and "Kap
pa Sigs, near Clyde street. The 
Delta Tau Delta, Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon, Pi Kappa Alpha, Theta 
Xi, and Delta Epsilon fraternities 
are all located north of Morewood. Beta Theta Pi is located 
further up on Forbes street in 
Squirrel Hill.
All the fraternity houses are 
solid stone or brick buildings 
housing from twenty-five to fifty 
men. Most of ;the houses use the 
dorm system of living with one 
large room for sleeping, usually 
on the top floor. The rest of the 
house is composed of study rooms, 
dining room, kitchen, and game 
room. Some of the smaller  hous
es, however, have single and 
double rooms with beds in every 
room. This facilitates more in
dividual living quarters.
Men are eligible to become 
members of a fraternity as soon 
as they have arrived at Tech for 
the first semester of their Fresh
man year. During then* first week 
at school men are rushed by the 
fraternities who consider them to 
be good material. After this week 
has expired there is a silent pe
riod, during which the fratern
ities are not permitted to con
tact any of the men that are eli
gible to join. At this time the 
rushee is allowed to make up 
his mindfree from any outside 
influenceas to the organization 
he would like to associate with 
for his four years ait Tech.
Most fraternities have dances 
or parties at least once a month 
as well as a big dance at the an
nual Tech Homecoming in the 
fall, one just before the Christ
mas vacation and another some
time during spring. There is in
ter-fraternity competition in 
singing every year at the Greek 
Sing and Swing, and also in 
sports and in homecoming deco
rations.
Fraternity policies at Tech are 
determined by Inter-Fraternity
Intramural Sports
Numerous Sports Offered 
To Entire Student Body
Vo HRVN24 YGgRE
Vo 7 y7
Alpha Kappa Psi was the first 
social sorority on the campus and 
was recognized as a local in 1926. 
Its adviser Is Miss Leonora Dono
hue, who is secretary of the Drama 
Department. Alpha Kappa Psi is 
an Arts School sorority, which 
means that it rushes only the 
freshmen girls from Arts school 
at the inid-semester recess. There 
are three other Arts School soror
ities. The Margaret Morrison sor
orities rush sophomores from 
Margaret Morrison at the begin
ning of the sophomore year.
Beta Pi, Arts sorority, was 
founded in 1922. Its sponsors are 
Polly Rowles Snyder and Miss 
Winnie Dennison. Beta Tau 
Lambda, Arts sorority, was found
ed in 1920 by a group of six mem
bers who adopted their constitu
tion under the nickname of the 
Beetles. Mrs. Robert Reister is 
a sponsor of the sorority. Gamma 
Gamma, Gamma, Arts sorority, 
was founded in June, 1923, and 
the girls are better known as the 
Tri Gams.
Alpha Theta Sigma, youngest 
sorority in Margaret Morrison 
College, was organized by a group 
of Secretarial students in Febru
ary, 1932. Its sponsors are Mrs. 
Sheriff and Mrs. Sharp. Gamma 
Phi Sigma, Margaret Morrison 
sorority, was established in 1930. 
Its purpose of furthering friend
ship, developing character, and 
promoting social activities well 
represents the purpose of every 
Tech sorority.
Kappa Phi Delta, Margaret Mor
rison sorority, was organized in 
1930. Its sponsors are Mama 
and Pappa Parisi.
Rushing on the Tech campus is 
characterized by a joint tea at 
which all sororities in each school 
give a skit, separate teas, a formal 
dance, and finally a buffet supper. 
Besides the social activities which 
each sorority maintains, an Intersorority Dance is held each year. 
At Greek Sing and Swing each 
group sends its best singers to com
pete for a cup. This year the tro
phy was won by Kappa Phi Delta, 
with honorable mention going to 
Alpha Kappa Psi. Each sorority 
is also asked to take charge of a 
booth at the Guild dance in the 
fall, the proceeds of which go to
wards a scholarship. A scholar
ship is also awarded each year 
by Intersorority Council.
Council which is composed of the 
President and one representative 
from each house at Tech. This 
body is advised by a member of 
the faculty whom they appoint 
themselves; and, in addition there 
is a faculty advisor for each par
ticular house. Most of the fra
ternities have Matrons who re
side there all the time; those who 
do not, obtain chaperons for the 
social functions.
Since the de-emphasis of ma
jor sports at Carnegie, intra-mur
al sports are playing _a more im
portant part on the campus than 
ever before.
The program was started about 
twenty years ago under the lead
ership of Frank W. Moses. After 
the completion of the new gym, 
basketball became more fascin
ating than ever before, and the 
students demanded more time for 
this sport on the new floor. Track 
was added the following spring, 
and swimming and wrestling soon 
followed.
Several years later the number 
of students that formed track 
teams could not participate under 
the conditions, which were quite 
limited, and a new sport found 
its way on campus-softball. 
Bowling was formed during 
Spring Carnival the following 
year, and was such an attraction 
that ping-pong was also added.
The following year Allen E. 
Risedorph, the coach, was seen 
on campus, and he and Mr. Moses 
assumed joint leadership of the 
sports. In 1938, Mr. Eyman took 
charge of Intramural Athletics
for Mr. Risedorph was' busy with 
varsity swimming, and Mr. Moses 
was coaching tennis.
The Intra-mural program is 
run entirely by the students, and 
is made up of nine men from var
ious organizations on campus. 
These men arrange the dates for 
participation of every sport, and 
arrange for fields, courts, and 
proper refereeing of all sports.
Handsome trophies are award
ed to winning teams, and all 
dorms and fraternities have 
shelves of gold and silver tro
phies.
The interest shown in the var
ious sports is so enthusiastic that 
last fall more than thirty foot
ball teams were entered in the 
competition.
Interest this year is focused on 
the softball competition for pos
sibly the winning team may keep 
the cup. If any team wins three 
legs, the trophy is retained.
No longer must men be six feet 
tall and four feet wide to partici
pate in college athleticsif you 
dont believe itwatch the Fresh
men Mechanicals some sunny af
ternoon.
clo1Ho.27 A3 6oA3.A3Y 
sor21 A3 8olA21 sA2O1
Informality Is 
Keynote During 
P. & D. Classes
Vo YR2NNE z.22o 
Carnegie Techs first approach 
to the arts occurred at the begin
ning of the century with the in
stallation of the Architecture 
course and the Illustration and 
Decoration course (now the 
Painting and Design Depart
ment). At first these courses oc
cupied rooms in Industries Hall. 
Later, while the Arts Building, 
was still under construction, 
classes were moved in, and the 
students began work in unfinish
ed rooms. At this time architec
ture became a separate depart
ment. During the first months in 
the new building the architects 
had the opportunity to plan and 
design magnificent edifices, and 
at the same time to inspect others 
designs.
New Courses Added 
Gradually  new courses were 
added to the Painting and De
sign curriculum. In 1913, Car
negie Tech had P. &. D. gradu
ates in Illustration and Paint
ing, in Art Education, and in In
terior Decoration. It was not un
til 1933 that the course in In
terior Decoration became part of 
the Architecture Department. The 
next year, a third option, Indus
trial Design, was included in the 
P. & D. Department. It was the 
first college program of profes
sional study in this field in the 
country. Today the P. & D. De
partment is still made up of these 
three optionsPainting and Il
lustration, Art Education, and In
dustrial Design.
Gay Parties 
P. & D. students, like other 
Arts students, spend much of 
.their time in the building but not 
quite all of it in working.
The top floor of Arts has been 
the scene of many a gay party 
spaghetti feeds, dances, Hallow
een parties and the like. Natur
ally these affairs are not very
elaborate, rather they border on 
the Bohemian.
The keynote t all times in 
Arts is informality. However, this 
lack of ceremony frequently 
reaches such heights that the fac
ulty has to step in and make new 
rulings. Ping-pong and noon-day 
dancing in the classrooms had to 
be prohibited, because they in
terfered with the work of more 
ambitious souls. For this reason, 
also, radios were barred from 
classrooms. Occasionally, how
ever, one does manage to make 
. its appearance.
Close Bond
There is a veiy close bond be
tween Arts students and their 
teachers that one does not find in 
the other colleges. The kind of 
work in which they are engaged 
demands that no wall of formal
ity shall stand between the stu
dents and teachers. The instruc
tor must be able to sense and to 
bring out the creative abilities of 
his students. Without friendship 
and understanding this would be 
impossible.
The aim of the Painting and 
Design Department is to give pro
fessional training with emphasis 
on a broad foundation, rather 
than on specialization; and on a 
tying-together of the different 
parts of the students experience 
so that it will work as a whole.
Prominent Graduates
Proof that this aim is very suc
cessful are the number of gradu
ates who have made prominent 
places for themselves in the art 
world. Among these are Francis 
X. Keally, 12, architect of the 
C. I. T. new campus plan; Wood
man Thompson, 14, New York 
stage designer; Lawrence B. 
Kritcher, 22, Associate Art Edi
tor of the Saturday Evening Post; 
Howard Baer, 28, whose illustra
tions are frequently see in Es
quire; and Raymond A. Smith, 
38, industrial designer with Gen
eral Motors. Note the variety of 
fields covered by this small group, 
all Painting and Design gradu
ates.

---------------------------------------------------

FRIDAY, APRIL 25, 1941THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
y,N eG2.m3N Rn m2N.4GEU .E NE4G2N3o SGnnN2NE4 TN21RE G1 GE T2RU2N11 
GE 4,N .VRhN TGm4I2N .1 eNeVN21 Rn 4,N Y2.e. YNT.24eNE4 T2NT.2N 
nR2 REN Rn 4,N T3.o1 0,Gm, .2N T2N1NE4NS Vo 4,N 14ISNE41 SI2GEU 4,N 
1m,RR3 oN.27
V2UI Duu2l7 
0DVL LRHl72
Vo D7 A7
With world conditions in their 
present troubled state, it is heart
ening to know that the Military 
Department here at Carnegie 
Tech is training men for positions 
of leadership in our National De
fense program as second lieu
tenants in the Officers Reserve 
Carps, U. S. Army. This Depart
ment, in line with other depart
ments of the school, is taking an 
active part in tonights Annual 
Exhibition.
First Established
The Government first estab
lished the Department of Mili
tary Science and Tactics, which 
operates the Reserve Officers 
Training Corps, at Carnegie in 
April, 1919. At first, four units 
were offered for a students 
choice: Engineer, Signal Corps, 
Field Artillery, and Motor Trans
port Corps. Experience soon 
proved that two, Engineer and 
Signal Corps, most effectively fit
ted in with the regular curric
ulum, and the other two units 
were dropped. A student now en
rolls in the unit that is most in 
line with his academic course, 
and that will give him practical 
experience along the lines of his 
chosen profession. Enrollment is 
voluntary on the part of a stu
dent, a Basic Course being offer
ed for freshmen and sophomores, 
and an Advanced Course for jun
iors and seniors. Upon graduation 
each student who has taken the 
full four-year course, including/a 
six weeks camp between the 
junior and senior years, and who 
meets the' prescribed physical re
quirements, is tendered a com
mission as second lieutenant in 
the Officers Reserve Corps.
Enrollment Rises
A program of instruction, laid 
down by the War Department for 
general observance in ROTC es
tablishments, is covered in the 
four years. The most important 
subjects, on the basis of time re
quired, are leadership and mili
tary engineering as applied to the 
unit concerned.
In thfe twenty-two years that 
the Corps has been functioning, 
the enrollment has increased from 
52 to 606, and in the same pe
riod the number graduated an
nually from the course and sub
sequently commissioned as sec
ond lieutenants has similarly in
creased from 2 to a contemplat
ed 66 at the end of the current 
school year. The total enrollment 
and the number to be appointed 
this year constitute a record fig
ure. At the beginning of this* 
school year, approximately 90% 
of the incoming freshman class 
applied for admission to the 
ROTC.
The Basic Course uniforms are 
supplied by the Government, and
C. S. EDMN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
Warehouse Service
STEEL 
PRODUCTS
AKjsHj:
I
200 BRADLEY STREET j 
McKEES ROCKS, PA. 
FEderal 3300
the Advanced Course students 
wear a distinctive uniform, indi
vidually tailored, purchased prin
cipally at Government expense. 
These uniforms, with the addi
tion of .sabers, Sam Browne belts, 
and appropriate insignia, lend a 
pictorial quality to the campus on 
drill days, and the activities of 
the Corps as a whole have 
brought many pleasant features 
to the campus, such as the An
nual Military Ball, the color 
guard, a chapter of national hon
orary military fraternity, the 
Scabbard and Blade, and the tra
dition of electing each year hon
orary cadet officers from among 
the cc-eds. In addition, the var
ious rifle teams, sponsored and 
coached by Military Department 
personnel, have achieved nation-: 
al prominence in various matches 
such as the nationally known 
William Randolph Hearst Match, 
the Society of American Military 
Engineers Match, the Third Corps 
Area Intercollegiate Match, and 
innumerable postal or wire 
matches with other institutions.
In connection with the parade 
previously mentioned for to
nights Annual Exhibition, the 
Department plans for the first 
timeN in many years to present 
several other interesting features 
to the general public for this 
event. A scale model of the latest 
pontoon bridge equipment, ac
curately constructed at the scale 
of 1:10, has been produced from 
Headquarters, 3rd Corps Area in 
Baltimore. This model, consist
ing of five boats and all necessary 
equipment to construct a floating 
bridge over a good sized stream 
will be displayed in room 104, 
Industries Hall, or one of the 
classrooms neax*by.
Exhibit Features
In addition, it is planned to 
display other equipment pertain
ing to the two units of the ROTC, 
among which will be the demoli
tion equipment used by engin
eers, portable radio and telephone 
equipment used by the signal 
corp, machine guns and other 
arms, and a sand table depicting 
an actual combat problem. Near
by there will also be displayed 
the numerous trophies awarded 
in the past to the various Tech 
rifle teams. One of these trophies 
is the only one of its land in ex
istence in the United States. It 
is awarded annually by the Soci
ety of American Military Engin
eers to the winning team in the 
competition sponsored by this or
ganization. It must be won three 
times by one team in order to 
be retained permanently and the 
Carnegie Tech Rifle Team is the 
only team having the honor to 
retain this trophy by virtue of 
having won it three years.
In cooperation with the Engin
eer Board, Ft. Belvoir, Virginia, 
it has been arranged that a short 
sound movie, entitled Equip
mentTests, of the newsreel 
type, will be shown in Room 104, 
Industries, at intervals. The En
gineer Board is responsible for 
the design, tests, and improve
ment of all engineer equipment 
used by the Army, and the pic
ture concerned is not so technical 
in nature but that it will be of 
general interest to the public and 
the student body.
Drama School 
Brings Fame 
To Carnegie
Vo H7 67 B.
Carnegie Techs twenty-seven 
year old Department of Drama has 
the distinction of offering, not only 
the most thorough and most tech
nical degree course in theatre 
work, but also of being one of the 
most famous of drama schools, 
graduate, undergraduate, or spec
ial, in the country.
Students Specialize
A student enrolled in this de
partment may, after his Freshman 
year, concentrate either on acting, 
playwriting, or production. The 
course, including only the most 
essential academics and those 
which have a direct or indirect 
bearing on some phase of the dra
ma, allows a great amount of 
time for invaluable practicalex
perience in the actual production 
of plays.
Tonights exhibition of the De
partment of Drama gives vititors 
a chance to see two sides of the 
departments work. In the Stu
dio Theatremoved this year 
from the old Union in the Admin
istration Building to the Lang
ley Lab, in the Commons Build
ingthere is a display of all that 
goes into the technical workingout of the productions. There are 
the preliminary sketches and the 
working-drawings that precede 
the building of the sets and the 
lighting of them, and there are 
three-dimensional models of some 
scene designs. On display, too, 
are some of the costumes from the 
Department's famous and grow
ing collection.
Play Presented
The second part of the exhibi
tion is in the Fine Arts Theatre. 
The run of The Comedy of Er
rors, this years Shalcespeareian 
production, has been prolonged in 
order to be used tonight as en
tertainment for visitors to the An
nual Exhibition and as a demon
stration of the final sum of the 
detailed work on view in the Stu
dio Theatre. Several scenes of 
the comedy will be presented, and 
they will be ingeniously tied to
gether with an explanatory con
versation between Plautus, Roman 
comedian from whom Shakespeare 
drew his plot for The Comedy of 
Errors, and George Abbot, con
temporary producer who gave 
Broadway theatregoers their lat
est version of the Shakespeareian 
comedythe musical, The Boys 
From Syracuse.
C. A. A. New Tliis 
Year; Free Courses 
In Flying Offered
Vo A,.23N1 uRN,2GEU 
The Civilian Pilot Training 
Program is a plan by which the 
Civil Aeronautics Administration 
contracts with universities and 
colleges for the teaching of avia
tion ground courses and with com
mercial flying schools for the 
teaching of flight courses. The 
sponsoring of pilot training at 
Carnegie under the direction of 
Dr. Oliver C. Simpson began last 
fall. Its quota was set at thirty 
primary and ten secondary stu
dents. Twenty-six completed the 
primary course and eight complet
ed the secondary course.
Applicants Selected 
In order to enroll in the pri
mary course an applicant must 
have completed at. least one full 
year of college, must be a citizen 
of the United States, and must 
pass a government physical exam
ination. Applicants are selected 
on the basis of scholarship, ability 
to meet flight and ground school 
schedules, and ability to pass the 
physical examination. After be
ing enrolled in the course, a stu
dent receives thirty-five to fortyfive hours of flight training and 
seventy-two hours of ground 
school instruction, including the 
following subjects: civil air regu
lations, meteorology, and air nav
igation. Upon completion of the 
course, he receives a private pilot 
certificate, which entitles him to 
fly the type of plane in which he 
has been trained, either solo or 
with passengers, but not commer
cially or for profit.
Secondary Course 
If he wishes to continue into the 
secondary course, he must have 
completed at least two years of 
college work or be scheduled to 
complete it by the end of the 
training program. He must again 
pass a government medical ex
amination, including a special eye 
examination. In the secondary 
course, he receives forty to fifty 
hours of flight training in a Waco 
trainer, which is the basic army 
air corps trainer. Instruction in 
this course is similar to army and 
navy training. The students alSo 
learn to do the standard acrobatic 
maneuvers.
The ground school instruction 
includes 108 hours of training in 
such subjects as aircraft power 
plants, radio and celectial navi
gation, aerodynamics, aircraft 
structures, and meteorology.
Judges Select 
50 Outstanding 
Books Of Year
Vo l.34N2 64I33
The Department of Printing is 
sponsoring as part of Exhibition 
Night an exhibit of the Fifty Out
standing Books of the Year in the 
alcove of Industries Hall near 
room 145.
These books, loaned by the 
American Institute of the Graphic 
Arts, represent not the fifty best 
sellers of the year, but the fifty 
best designed books published 
during the past year.
Selections Difficult
A jury of three publication men 
representing the Institute of the 
Graphic Arts selects the books for 
the exhibition each year. Their 
task is to select the fifty typo
graphically perfect books out of 
the many entered for considera
tion. The literary content is con
sidered only in its relation to the 
design and the problems of pro
duction.
The judges consider the physic
al excellence of the book: its ma
terial, design, and workmanship; 
the quality of the binding; the 
harmonic relation of typo face, 
paper, story, and page design; 
legibility and attractiveness of 
the pages as individuals and as 
a whole; and the general quality 
of publication work. The probable 
durability of the volume in rela
tion to the service for which It is 
intended is also considered.
Selection of thp best books 
grows more difficult each year as 
publication standards rise stead
ily and consequently the num
ber of enterics increase. This year 
600 odd entries were considered.
Behind The Type
Two former Carnegie Depart
ment of Printing students have 
successfully competed for hon
ors with books of their design. 
They are George W. Van Vechten, Jr., and Helen Gentry. Miss 
Gentry is one of the few women 
students who have taken Printing 
Department courses.
Also on exhibit is the complet
ed volume of a book produced 
from authorship to completion 
by the combined effort of the 
students of the Department of 
Printing. A biography of Fred
eric W. Goudy, outstanding de
signer of type faces, it is entitled 
Behind the Type, and was writ
ten by Bernard Lewis while a 
student of the Department.
Mr. Lewis is a former editor of 
the TARTAN and is now work
ing in Chicago for a publishing 
firm. He conceived the idea of 
writing Behind the Type, whin 
he met Mr. Goudy at a Printers 
reunion, held at Tech.
Representing one of the most 
comprehensive undertakings ever 
attempted by the students, the 
 book is worthy in every way of 
being in the distinguished com
pany of the Fifty Books of the 
Year. It would have an excellent 
chance to win honors in next 
years competition, having come 
off the presses too late to be sub
mitted this year.
6IE7AU7 6lRu 
,PT2lAr23.7
Vo jN3hGE 6EoSN2 
Deep in the midst of Engineer
ing Hall, Dr. C. E. Leberkniglvt, 
Assistant Professor of Physics, is 
measuring temperature changes 
as small as one ten-millionth of 
a degree and absorbing light that 
cant be seen.
These seemingly impossible 
feats are being accomplished by 
Dr. Leberknigllt in the course of 
his work with infra-red light. Us
ing a spectroscope which he de
signed and built, Dr. Leberlcnight 
examines the absorption bands 
of certain gases and solutions 
through which infra-red light 
has passed.
Applications Varied 
The applications of this study 
of infra-red spectra and absorp
tion bands are many and varied. 
By this means calculation of 
molecular and atomic structures 
together with their moments of 
inertia may be made of various 
gases. Chemical analysis of var
ious solutions is also being stud
ied in this maimer, particularly of 
compounds which have similar 
physical properties and which are 
hard to distinguish between by 
other methods.
Measuring these spectra is very 
difficult since infra-red light is 
invisible, preventing the seeing 
of the spectra. Photographic 
plates are available which are 
sensitive to part of the range of 
infra-red but use of these plates 
would necessitate working at ex
tremely low temperatures as the 
heat at room temperature would 
fog the plates. The method used 
by Dr. Leberknight is to mea
sure the intensity of the various 
spectra and the changes in in
tensity by means of a thermo
couple.
Temperature Changes 
Since temperature changos an 
small as one ten-millionth of a 
degree Centigrade must be mea
sured, a special thermocouple 1A 
used in connection with a apodal 
galvanometer. The thermocouple 
weighs only a milligram and is 
used In a vacuum. The sensitive 
galvanometer is protected not on
ly from vibration, but aslo from 
stray electrical radio and mag
netic fluxes. Numerous metal 
shields are used for this purpose.
Dr. Leberknight designed the 
equipment, built the first set, and 
supervised -the building of the 
present equipment. The only 
parts which could be purchased 
are the rock salt prisms, which 
arc used because they transmit 
more light than glass, and the 
metal diffraction gratings which 
are ruled with 2400 and 3600 lines 
to an inch.
Looking for the Gang!
Theyll be bowling where the 
Brunswick equipment is. For 
top quality in play look for 
Brunswick installations.
Attention Fraternities!
Bring this add and save $10 
on a new or used table. Lib
eral range in prices.
BRUNSWICK,
BALKE,
COLLENDER
inf)I .CENTER AVENUE 
At Morewkood
THE PITTSBURGH SAVOYARDS
Presents"lolcmthe"
Gilbert & Sullivan 
Directed by
Harvey B. Gaul John H. Weisbrod Alexander Robertson
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, May 6, 7, and 88:30 P. M.
The Twentieth Century ClubPark 111 an anti Bigelow Blvds. 
ADULTS, $1.00 STUDENTS AND CHILDREN, 50c
Box Office315 Shady Avenue (Montrose 0120) 
Tickets obtainable at Mellors, Volkweins and Wagner-Bund.
No tickets sold at The Twentieth Century Club.
C.hN :RI2 A3R4,N1 HNERh.4NS iR2 y,N 
b 6sH-xu AcHx-pcD
MEN'S AND WOMENS PLAIN GARMENTS 
CLEANED AND PRESSED
00C
McHUGH CLEANERS
Oaklands Only 3-Hour Cleaning Plant 
3813 FIFTH AVENUE at Bouquet Street 
Free Call and Delivery Service SChenley 55125

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANFRIDAY, APRIL 25, 1941
p7 F37TAlo.AR3 .R pOO ,3YA322l7
Vo l.33.mN 6.S.II3m.1 
At Carnegie, no sight is more 
interesting or more imposing than 
the arrival on the campus of the 
night student body. In the early 
evening hours it occursa long 
procession of young men and 
women, each with a book or 
two under his arm, or 'i brief 
case by the handle, or a large 
fibre portfolio full of drawings 
or perhaps a T-square or a draft
ing board. The scattered firslcome^a go leisurely, conscious 
that they are not pressed for 
time; the stream swells shortly 
to a solid column that flows 
steadily forward at a normal 
pace until it gradually dwindles 
;iway to the stragglers who move 
along with steps of increasing 
liveliness as the hour approaches 
for the bells of the first class to 
ring. The throng afoot is more 
I'han doubled in size by the arriv
al of students in cars, lines of 
them coming in over all the roads 
that converge at the campus, 
many of therh bringing a regular 
groupeach member of which 
shares in the expense of opera
tion.
They Are Serious 
This invading army is never
theless willing to Sacrifice even
ings of amusement for evenings 
of study. There is one outstand
ing trait that they all possess in 
commona seriousness of pur
pose not observed in any similar 
number of day students. They are 
not being sent to college by prod
ding parents. For the most part 
they are paying their own way. 
All of them have a vision of some 
sort, a clear recognition of the 
value of education, and a grim 
determination to get ahead on 
their own account. That is the 
spirit which characterizes the 
evening classes. A man in Denni
son, Ohio, came to Pittsburgh 
two nights a week lor a course 
in the heat treatment of steel. 
He left his work at three in the 
a.'ternoon, traveled 100 miles each 
way by train, and reached home 
at three oclock the next morning. 
There was a chap who walked 
four miles from Kelley Station to 
Logansport in the late afternoon, 
boarded a train for the 38-mile 
run to Pittsburgh and then re
versed the route after classes, 
getting to bed when the milkman 
was making his roundfour 
times a week he did this. But 
the greatest find was the two 
brothers who drove a round trip
of 152 miles in a (liver over the 
mountains twicti weeklyfrom 
Johnstown.
Attend Many Years
Time is another factor to which 
many a night student pays scant 
heed. To receive their diplomas, 
there crosses the stage at every 
commencement a group of men 
in their thirties and forties, with 
an occasional one in his fifties, 
who have been coming to Carne
gie for over a decade. An exam
ination of records of recent years 
reveals Henry Philip Bender as 
having been registered for twen
ty-one years. He received his 
bachelor's degree in Electrical 
Engineering in 1933. Up to the 
present, Bender has been in at
tendance lor a longer period than 
any other night student. Seven
teen years go to the credit of Wil
liam Baldwin Skinkle, who 
earned a diploma in Mechanical 
Engineering in 15)17, a bachelors 
degr.ee in 1919, the professional 
degree of Mechanical Engineer in 
1920, and a Master of Science 
degree in 1921.
Many of the men who registered for long periods are mar
ried, have families, and hold re
sponsible positions in industry. 
There was Atherton, who was so 
obviously a grandfather that his 
classmates always called him 
Grandpa; Keller who had three
sons and a daughter-in-law on 
the rolls simultaneously with his 
own name; and Spencer, who got 
his degree in evening school, and 
who achieved the honor of being 
the first Carnegie graduate to 
become a college president; there 
was Malerich who finished the 
same year his son entered as a 
freshman. These are the men 
whose achievements are note
worthy and who richly deseve the 
unusual applause they always 
receive at the Commencement ex
ercises.
Three Main Groups
The night student body is di
vided roughly into three main 
groups. There are those who 
come for a comparatively short 
period to secure instruction in 
this or that special subject that 
will lit them for better positions 
in their fields of interest. This 
work generally ties up directly 
with the mans daily job, and in 
consequence holds his close at
tention. There is no long road to 
be traveled through fundamental 
subjects by way of prerequisites, 
no present sacrifice for future 
gain, no requirement of long at
tendance. Students in this group 
seldom withdraw before their ob
jective is reached. A year or two 
and they are through.
The second classification con
sists of the members who come 
for the regular nine-year engi
neering courses, with a degree 
G1 the goal. Out of one hundred 
and twenty-five men who began 
these courses in 1907 only eleven 
survived to graduate. In those 
days the necessary period of at
tendance was five years instead 
of nine, with a diploma and not 
a degree at completion.
Strange Hensons
The third and last group Is made 
up of those ever-present individ
uals who start ventures with 
brave enough intentions, but are 
not endowed with sufficient sta
bility and backbone or health to 
carry them through. Sometimes 
they come with an ulterior pur
pose, with no thought whatever 
of going far. An amusing in
stance of a student who failed 
every subject and at the end of his 
first term, on being called on the 
carpet to explain his delinquency, 
replied, Oh, I didntcome here 
for grades. You see, I figured 
that it would be cheaper for me 
to put in my time here doing al
most anything than having to 
take my wifes folks to the movies 
every evening. Another do
mestic episode came to light when 
a suspicious wife wrote to the 
college to find out what schedule 
her husband was supposed to fol
low that brought him to school on 
Saturday nights and kept him 
from stepping out with her.
It was on the evening of No
vember 20, 1905, that the first 
evening classes were held at Car
negie, slightly over a month after 
the day classes started. The orig
inal night group to enroll num
bered 337 students. Three main 
divisions were established. The 
engineering group was the nucleus 
from which grew the Night School 
of Applied Science, whose name 
was changed in 1922 to College of 
Engineering. The class in arch
itecture was the beginning of the 
Night School of Applied Design, 
changed in 1922 to College of Fine 
Arts. Approximately two months 
later, on January 29, 1906, the 
Night School for Apprentices and 
Journeymen opened, changed in 
1922 to the College of Industries. 
The system of instruction given 
students afforded them a broader 
knowledge of their tirades than it 
was possible for them to acquire 
through their daily employment. 
They received the theory as well 
as the practice in the work of 
their choosing; they got some 
manual skill and a general train
ing that would qualify them for 
advancement to better positions.
Women students came first into 
the night school picture on Octo-^ 
ber 8, 1906. That date marks the 
start of evening classes in the 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col
lege, with an initial attendance 
of 120.
Work Varies
The pitch of the work in these 
four evening divisions varied 
greatly. It was of a different 
character from the day courses, 
being distinctly of the trade type 
in the School of Apprentices and 
Journeymen and in Margaret 
'Morrison.
Evening courses in the Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie College were 
discontinued in 1921, as they be
came unnecessary when the 
Pittsburgh Board of Public Edu
cation established night high 
schools dealing with the same 
subjects. Women still attend 
Carnegie in the evening, but now 
take work in decoration, illustra
tion, painting, music, drama, and 
sculpturecourses which were 
added to the scope of the Night 
School of Applied Design. The 
overalls courses for men in the 
trades remain much the same, but 
the drift in the engineex'ing school 
has been mainly in the direction 
of fewer men taking the regular 
courses, and more men taking 
shorter courses in specialized 
fields to meet either a present 
need on their daily jobs or a fu
ture need to meet promotion.
Today with the rapid extension 
of mans knowledge, particularly 
in science and technology, even the 
college graduate often finds his 
training inadequate unless he 
continues his studies. So it be
came necessary in 1926 to offer a 
series of post-graduate courses at 
night.
This widespread service to the 
community reflected in a growth 
of the night student body from 
607 in 1905-1906 to 3315 in 1940- 
41 has brought realization to An
drew Carnegies wise vision in 
founding a school of technology 
in the area of our country which 
made his fortune possible.
y,.Ew1 UR 4R 4,N CG14R2Gm.3 
HNmR2S1 AReeG44NN nR2 ,N3T 0G4, 
4,G1 .m4Gm3N7
M. M. C. C. Courses
ARE4GEINS n2Re T.UN Q 
power. They get training in 
the chemistry of foods and 
in bio-chemistry. Closely 'con
nected with this department is 
the department of Vocational 
Home Economics. In this depart
ment the girls are prepared to 
teach either Home Economics or 
Costurtie Economics in the pub
lic schools.
Fine Arts Courses
ARE4GEINS n2Re T.UN Q 
gives its students training in the 
field of sculpture from a technic
al, aesthetic, and historical ap
proach. Figure construction, 
Plaster Casting, and Life Model
ing are some of the subjects that 
sculptors must take.
V'6,G0FV,0SV'6,G0FV,0SforforRENT
3 MO/oT *5'SLE
First Rental Applies inNEW PORTABLES
PurcliasoTUO MAKES
FNH3L .NFNE3 Y,S P on "<" 
UNDERWOOD REMINGTON p 6 ' week
For! PSi Typewriter Company
6*14 IJIJERTY AVENUKATlnntlc 8320
wAYI. SUIRRO S.H123.7 S2l-2
V2UOA ,PIABA.7 
4A3Ao.Hl2 4AOO
Vo 6.I3 jR1N1 
Steel is manufactured in min
iature at Carnegie Tech, now that 
the dioramas of the Worlds Fair
path of a bright orange-colored 
light. This alternate light and 
dim illumination, falling on a 
piece of Lucite extending from 
the mouth of the ladle, gives the 
impression of flowing steel.
Two five-gallon tanks are heat
ed electrically to supply the 
steam. The latter gives the im
pression of smoke coming from
the metal. These tanks can oper
ate for a month at a time on one 
filling..
To transfer the bulky display to 
Cai-negie required seven trips by 
three trucks. A door which hadnt 
been opened for twenty-five years 
was torn from its rusty hinges to 
allow the parts to be brought in
to Engineering Hall.
exhibit of the United States Steel 
Subsidiaries have been installed 
in lower Engineering Hall.
Three of' th four original 
mechanical dioramas were pre
sented to-Carnegie and have been 
built into the building to form a 
permanent part of it. where at the 
touch of a button the miniature 
machinery of the blast furnace, 
open hearth and the rolling mill 
operates just as it does in a lifesize mill.
The 'models' built to exact de
tail of 1/25th actual size tell a 
continuous story of steelmaking 
with many pieces of machinery 
operating just as they do in an 
actual steel mill.
Behind the intense activity of 
boom production in the dioramas 
is the more quiet but nond-theless important machinery which 
animates the exhibit. The qentral 
display requires the most stringpulling, since it represents a fair
ly involved process. A large box, 
containing timers, relays, and 
wiring, so complicated that it re
minds one of the workings of a 
pin-ball machine, serves to con
trol the pourings of steel and its 
transference to the proper mold. 
A fifteen second push activates 
the timer which then turns a 
dozen or more cam-lilce circuit 
breakers. This masterpiece of 
electric wiring was especially 
constructed for the United States 
Steel Corporation by an electrical 
engineer.
Steel is seen to pour from the 
mouth of a ladle. Because of dark 
areas in a mass of molten metal, 
a stream of it flowing over the 
edge of the ladle, for example, 
would give an alternate light and 
dark effect. In the model this is 
accomplished by a small metal 
damper which revolves in the
?
p3R.I2l cRR1 VIA3Y
Out we have
Cpms
of the worlds telephones! 
Gm
U nowhere else do people get 
so much telephone service ** 
and such good service 
at such low cost.
 ?
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY OF PENNSYLVANIA
"v
?
FShe United States 
has only six per cent 
of the worlds population;
WHITE TOWER 
Vol.34N247 CA
'TWO CONVENIENT LCCiTK'W'V-.N.'; 
i.. ..COAIttV NFAM 'CKNIKlVvft' i'.WWOOD NH/VR . epf.NfcS

---------------------------------------------------

TlA3.2l7 Duu2l 
y3AH2 LRHl72
zo D7 A7
Unique in college courses is the 
Department of Printing located 
in the lower floor of Industries 
J-Iall. Here in ideally equipped 
classrooms and laboratories,
; Printing students learn the Art 
that is called the preservative of 
all other Arts, and while the 
Printing program is not strictly 
an Engineering course, it is con
sidered by school officials as one, 
of the most important branches 
of technical education. given 
here.
Early History
Realizing the need for broadly 
educated men in the printing and 
publishing field, the fifth largest 
industry in America, administra
tive officials established the 
Printing Departmnt here at Car
negie in 1913. The curriculum of 
the Department has gone through 
numerous stages of development 
with increased emphases being 
placed upon the professional as
pect of printing in the later years.
The Department got its biggest 
boost in 1927 when an agreement 
was reached between the United 
Typothetae of America and the 
Institute which resulted in the 
contribution, over a period of 
years, of the sum of $125,000 by 
the Typothetae. The agreement 
also included the consolidation of 
the U. T. A. School of Printing 
in Indianapolis with the Print
ing Department here.
Ready Employment
The printing and related in
dustries provide numerous oppor
tunities for careers for college 
trained men familiar with pro
duction and management prob
lems of the graphic arts. The ex
tent to which , such opportunities 
exist is demonstrated by the 
wide variety of positions held by 
graduates of the Department of 
Printing. These men readily find 
employment in printing, publish
ing, advertising, equipment'man
ufacture, and printing supply in
dustries, and many have risen to 
positions of high administrative 
responsibility in their chosen 
field. The record of student place
ment in industry has consistent
ly been above 90%, and gradu
ates are located in thirty-six 
states and five foreign countries.'
Courses Taken
Technical printing courses tak
en by students include design, 
layout, advertising production, es
timating, cost accounting, typog
raphy, machine composition, 
presswork, chemistry for print
ers, offset lithography, printing 
production and plant manage
ment.
The instruction staff of the De
partment is composed of men 
who have a background of col
lege or university training and 
practical experience . in industry. 
Each instructor is a specialist in 
his particular field and keeps con
stantly in touch with new devel
opments which affect production 
methods in the printing industry.
1 FRIDAY, APRIL 25, 1941THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
GIo. CoTT237 D3 LROO2Y2 
LorTE 7G I23 Gol LRr27
y,N 3RIEUN Rn CNESN21RE C.33W1 EN03o 2NeRSN33NS U.eN 2RRe G1 TGm4I2NS .VRhN7 zN1GSN1 4,N 
4oTGm.3 2N1I34 Rn 4,N 0R2w VNGEU SREN RE .33 4,N 3RIEUN, 4,N U.eN 2RRe .31R mRE4.GE1 . 3GV2.2ob VG33Gv
.2S .ES TGEUBTREU 2RRe7 y,G1 TRTI3.2 2RRe G1 .eNEW1 SR2eG4R2GN17
Mens Dormitories
S.H123.7i 0RRr7 p. V2UI pl2 
,3.Al2OE 4R12l3j yTvVRvto.2
zo 67 j7
With students coming to Car
negie Tech from almost every 
state in the Union and from sev
eral foreign countries, the problem 
of housing these students becomes 
of major importance. Some of the 
men make a fraternity house their 
home for four years; others seek 
quarters in private homes; but a 
goodly portion reside at the dor
mitories provided by the Institute.
Seven Dormitories 
There are, in all, seven of these 
dormitories, but only five, Boss, 
Henderson, McGill, Welch, and 
Scobell are used to house the un
dergraduates. Miller Hall is at 
present occupied by eleven grad
uate students, and Englebrecht is 
too small to be economically op
erated as a dormitory.
The buildings are of brick and 
stone construction, and are located 
on the eastern part of the campus 
near the Gymnasium and the Car
negie Inn. All rooms are steam 
heated and electrically lighted; 
service for the care or the rooms 
is provided by the school and is 
included in the rental.
Various Accommodations 
The Institute provides three 
types of dormitory accommoda
tions for men, with rates correWant to get into the right 
walk of life? Stop now and 
buy a pair of our new 
Lady Douglas Shoes. Their 
smart combinations of 
leathers  ventilated and 
flexible featureswill put 
a new lilt in your walk and 
a new look in the eyes of 
the men in your life.
$3-85 . $4-95
Lady Douglas Glamour-Spun Stockings 
Four-throad, 59c Throe-thread, 69cAsk about our Hoiitry Club
W. L. DOUGLAS SHOE STORES
IN 1'ITTSBUEGH
203 FIFTH AVENUE
-411 El Ohio St., N. S. *""7 F.nn. Av. E. Liberty
Ntw Kensington, 04-SIB1 Fifth Avo. Wheeling 1203 Market St.
Open Evenings
Men's 6T2GEU 6,RN1b 4RRb .4 57FFb 5Q7FFb 5k7FF
sponding to the convenience pro
vided. Welch and Henderson Halls, 
which house 48. and 32 men re
spectively, offer the most desirable 
living quarters available on the 
campus. These halls have been 
recently remodeled and refurnish
ed, are among the most-up-todate in the country and are made 
up of three room suites with pri
vate or semi-private bath. The 
second type, Boss and McGill 
Halls, which house GO men each, 
havG also been recently renovated 
and are offered at a more mod
erate rental. Scobell Hall, which 
houses 90 men, offers the lowestpriced accommodations. All of the 
dormitories provide adequate fa
cilities for comfort and study, and 
in addition have large and mod
ern social quarters. These give 
the student with an opportunity 
to play ping-pong, billiards, cards, 
and can be easily transformed into 
dance floors.
Student Health 
In order to safeguard the health 
of the students, the Administration 
provides on the campus a Student 
Health Service for the benefit of 
all full-time students. Should hospitalization be necessary or desir
able in the opinion of the school 
physician, arrangements are in ef
fect with a nearby hospital for ad
mitting the student to semi-pri
vate room service, the cost of 
which for a maximum of seven 
days is borne by the Institute.
Early History 
McGill and Boss Halls were the 
first dormitories to be erected, in 
1915. Henderson, Miller, and En
glebrecht followed in 1917, and 
Scobell and Welch went up in 
short order during 1918 to help 
house the soldiers who were then 
arriving in large numbeis for 
training during the war. The 
buildings were used barrack-fashion at the start, the various floors 
not being portioned into rooms 
until later. All of the dormitories 
are named after Carnegie men 
who lost their lives in the first 
World War.
In Days of Old
Carnival Emulated 
Baruuins Circus
zo l7 S.
Of all the activities on the Car
negie campus the Spring Carnival 
is the most elaborate. It is the 
annual custom to devote a week
end in May to a program that in
cludes the fraternity sweepstakes, 
two large dances at, one of which 
the campus queen of the year is 
crowned, exercises for calling, 
pledges to the honorary fraterni
ties, and a theatrical performance 
by members of the student body.
Early Carnival 
Back in the days when Tech 
was in its teens ,the Spring Car
nival was called Campus Week, 
and bore little resemblance to the 
tame, sophisticated affair of today. 
It used to be one grand day of 
boisterous funit was really a 
carnival. The students would let 
down their hair and emulate 
Barnums greatest show on earth. 
Enterprising young students would 
swarm over the lot that is now 
the mushball field. Soon tents 
would spring up; signs would ap
pear announcing that such and 
such a tent had the freakest freak 
of all time. Upon entering such a 
tent, one would be accosted by a 
bearded fraternity man who pro
claimed himself a member of the 
weaker sex. In another tent, var
sity men dressed in sea weeds 
would sing South-Sea songs and 
wink mischievously at the gaping 
fieshmen.
Near the sideshows would be an 
enclosure where grunts and snorts 
would indicate the presence of 
livestock. The contented bovine, 
the sheep, the pigs were subjected 
to wisecracks concerning their re
markable resemblance to members 
of the student body.
Comic Clowns 
In the same building that now 
houses the Commons, couples 
would join hands and skate or 
dance around a calliope filched 
from a river steamer.
Comic clowns and policemen 
added to the merriment of the 
scene. Clowns would perform 
ridiculous side-splitting antics, 
while the policemen, mounted on 
white sway-backed horses, would 
gallop around the campus disrupt
ing order. Yes sir, the Spring 
Carnival aint what it used to be.
GDDtmpGw 6Cp04L'
:RI2 A.eTI1 Y2IU 64R2N
Duu2l7 ,PIABA.AR3 ST2UAoO7
CREW CAPS ....................................................................... 75c
SHEAFFER NEW PUSH BUTTON FINE LINE
PENCILS .....................................................................$1.00
1641 WRI8HT-DITS0N TENNIS BALLS.........3 for $1.10
CARNE6IE TECH JERSEY .......................................... 76c
CARNE6IE TECH COAT SWEATER.............................$2.39
Refresh Yourself With a Triple Decker 
Banana Split
U
Carnegie 18 Slowly 
Reenacted Today; 
Emphasize Defense
Bij 67 M.
What happens on a college 
campus when war comes? This 
query invites a comparison of 
Tech 18 and Tech 41.
Carnegie has four landmarks of 
the first World War. Two build
ings are still standing that went 
up rapidly during the rush to 
meet the war needsthe Lang
ley Aeronautical Laboratory and 
the Y. M. C. A. canteen, common
ly known as the Hut, one of the 
smallest and humblest of college 
libraries. A third reminder of 
the war is the Mens Dormitories 
named after seven men who 
died in the conflict. The other 
evidence is found in front of the 
College of Fine Artsa grove of 
sycamore trees planted in mem
ory of those Carnegie men who 
lost their lives in battle.
Maneuvers 
The entire scene of college life 
was changed. To be truthful, 
there werent any classes for un
dergraduates. Soldiers overran 
the campus. Fresh detachments 
from many parts of the country 
arrived weekly. All day long they 
underwent long and intersive 
drilling and instruction. These 
fighting mechanics received in
struction in various army classi
fications:auto mechanics, black
smiths, draftsmen, electricians, 
machinists, lens grinders, welders, 
and many more allied trades.
To house this great influx of 
men, wooden barracks sprang up 
on campus. As the training be
came more intensified, the cam
pus assumed the appearance of 
the front linestrenches were dug 
on the Cut, hand grenades were 
thrown over the high fences, and 
tanks practiced crashing through 
barbed wire entanglements. The 
campus reechoed with the shouts 
of right face, present arms, 
column double-quick time.
At the request of the govern
ment a war course 'in radio opera
tion was started to give training 
to those planning to enter the 
Signal Corps. The course was 
broadened to give advanced in
struction in the maintenance of 
wireless apparatus on airplanes. 
This radio school was the only one 
operated outside the regular gov
ernment camps.
R. O. T. C.
Some of the men formed the 
first course for bandmasters and 
band musicians to be established 
at any college, receiving their 
training from twenty professors in 
the Department of Music. From 
this work a regimental band was 
soon formed, drilling on the cam
pus, always in demand for par
ades and patriotic meetings.
It was during this crisis that the 
Reserve Officers Training Corps 
was established by the War De
partment. Faculty members be
came aides and members of vari
ous war boards. President Hammerschlag became Director of In
dustrial Research in the Office of 
Quartermaster General George 
Goethals. Students and faculty 
alike volunteered for service; be
tween 3,500 and 4,000 of them 
were in active service.
Defense Today
Today the process is slowly be
ing repeated, step by step. De
fense training courses have been 
set up to train, as quickly as possi
ble, the men who must step into 
key jobs vacated by those who 
are being advanced to higher re
sponsibilities as plant expansions 
bring about an ever-increasing de
mand for production executives.
The ROTC is already over
crowded. Trained men are need
ed and needed in a hurry, yet 
facilities are such that the military 
department cant cope with sup
ply of boys who have or wanted 
to enroll.
Research . facilities have been 
made available for defense. Many 
of the laboratories are carrying on 
experiments for the government. 
Several factulty members are 
serving in the defense program as 
experts in their respective fields. 
Many of the administrative of
ficials are serving on defense 
boards. President Doherty is serv
ing on the nine-membered Board 
of Aeronautical Council. At pres
ent he is on leave of absence in 
Washington, serving as a mem
ber of a nine-member production 
board and to aid in the national 
defense.
Year-Round School
Proposals have been suggested 
for the initiation of a schedule 
calling for year-round school. 
'.IhIs would mean that engineer 
would graduate in three years in
stead of the customary four. This 
plan was formulated because tho 
Army and Navy need engineers 
and need them soon. Navy men, 
headed by Admiral Yarnall, have 
visited the campus In search of 
engineers, dangling as bait a com
mission of Ensign in the Naval 
Reserve and a salary of $183 per 
month. The Marinos have fol
lowed the Navy here, offering 
similar pay and a commission as 
second lieutenant. Navy fliers 
and Army Fling Cadets are seek
ing men among Tech graduates 
and underclassmen.
To date soldiers have not visit
ed our campus for training, but 
we can not foretell what the fu
ture has in store for Carnegie. It 
is all quite possible that the scenes 
of 1917-18 will be repeated if the 
emergency becomes acute.
Again DOUGLAS has captured the Thrift 
Price  Style Market  Scores of new 
Spring models alive with Style. Rich 
browns, sporty two-tone tans that arc 
tops in style this season. And 
remember, Douglas YR0EByRB 
y,NBlRRS; 8TBy RByVmB c 2mV 
construction assures better 
fitting and greater comfort.
GoeGs
Custom and 
Normal-Trod tariti 
$7.00
fiouqda Skoe
IN PITTSBURGH
203 FIFTH AVENUE
*l7 Vol.V Ohio St., N. S. *117 Penn. Ave., E. Uherly
Nr tv l( r iirtlnKlnn, HfM-Hiifl Fifth Ave. Wheeling, 1202 Market St.
Open KvcnliiRH 
Rmnrl Nr tv Spring Stylen In Lady Doublait, Hit.fili and *1.0 li
AMERICAS BEST KNOWN SHOES

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANFRIDAY, APRIL 25, 1941
V2UI 6OoU2r23. fHl2oH 
fRo7.7 Ru CAYI 02URl1
Muriel
The Hut, War 
Canteen, Serves 
As Tech Library
zo C.2R3S7 YGmw1RE
Chance took an ironical turn in
deed when she placed near the 
middle of our campus a long low 
building called the hut. For 
twenty-one years now this ram
shackle combination oi boards, 
hali-dormer windows, and doubt
ful foundation has rubbed noses 
with the College of Fine Arts, the 
finest building from the stand
point of architecture "within the 
bounds of Schenley. By means 
of frequent repainting jobs the 
hut tries to keep up with her more 
pretentious companion, but, as 
any student can see, she is doomed 
to failure.
Explaining the presence of a 
building such as the hut in a con
spicuous part of our campus is be
coming more and more difficult 
every year. Perhaps this is be
cause, when the Y. M. C. A. of 
Pittsburgh first erected the build
ing in 1917 as a canteen and 
place of recreation for the soldiers 
about campus, it was to last for 
the duration of the war, and 
now even the engineers cant fig
ure out which war.
Still more irony may be per
ceived when one realizes that this 
World War canteen serves as a 
library for Carnegie Institute of 
Technology representing, as Dean 
Tarbell put it, one of the smallest 
and humblest libraries in the 
land. Why is it that a Carnegie 
college lacks one of those thousand 
collections of books that have 
found their way into almost every 
part of the world? In all fair
ness one rpust admit that the main 
Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh is 
but a ten minute walk from cam
pus, but the use of this fact is 
more an avoidance of the issue 
than a solution of the problem.
May we hope that some time in 
the not too-distant future a suita
ble library will appear on Techs 
grounds, and at the same time 
this little green anachromism in 
our midst will disappear.
Bealty Anil Staff 
Place 98% ofTcch 
Graduates In 1940
zo 7 67
Carnegie Tech maintains a 
Placement Bureau which renders 
valuable service to graduates and 
undergraduates in helping them 
to locate remunerative positions. 
The record of Techs Placement 
Bureau has always been high and 
this year looks promising for the 
new crop of graduates. The Bu
reau is under the direction of 
John D! Beatty and he has a cap
able staff of trained assistants.
The Bureau has been able to 
place many graduates in responsi
ble positions, and is constantly 
looking after the best interests of 
all graduates. Each year repre
sentatives of leading companies 
are invited to interview the Sen
iors and give, them the contacts 
necessary to getting a job of 
their choice. The department dis
tributes several booklets which ed
ucate the senior in the problems 
involved in finding work, and 
awaken in him the proper perspec
tive and attitude for a job hunter. 
In cooperation with this Bureau, 
the faculty offers instruction in 
letter writing and ability to pre
sent oneself favorably. Every 
means of advancing the interests 
of the graduate is utilized, and 
ment gives' added impetus to the 
students job-seeking.
Of the 255 engineering students 
graduated in Jun, 1940, 98 per 
cent, or 250 were working by Novomber, 1940. The majority of 
the graduates, 70.0 per cent, have 
gone into manufacturing occupa
tions. This classification includes 
production of steel and non*-ferrous metals, machine manufac
turing, stone clay, and glass pro
duction, paper and printing, etc. 
Twenty-five per cent are in nonmanufacturing positions such as 
construction, education, Govern
ment, etc. Considering the func
tional distribution of graduates, 
29 per cent have gone into Stu
dent Training, 13 per cent in Op
erations, Drafting and Design and 
Research Development took 22.4 
per cent, and Military Service has 
2 per cent  of the men.
The Margaret Morrison and 
Arts graduates fare just as well 
as the engineers in most special
ized studies. One hundred per 
cent of the majors in Home EcoSHTTOm2r23.olE 
wAYI. SUIRRO SUI21HO2
iR33R0GEU is . 3G14 Rn mRI21N1 4R VN RnnN2NS GE 4,N xGU,4 1m,RR3 GE
OO 1ITT3NeNE4Z2I 4N2et
6ITT3NeNE4.2G/ yNEEOOBBLEUGENN2GEU ARI21N1
EE
E
E
E
43 Physics III (12), Rec. M.F. 7:30-8:30, W. 7:30-10:30. E.H. 
111; Lab. M.F. 8:30-10:30, E.H. 204, 102, 107, 300B ($43.20- 
Five-Week Subjects, May 26 to June 28, 1941 
5a Foundry I (2), M. Th. 7:30-10:30, Ind. 123, 117 ($7.20)
7a Pattern I (2), Tu.F. 7:30-10:30, Ind. 232, 231 ($7.30) 
Five-Week Subjects, June 30 to August 1, 1941 
la Machine I (2), M.Th. 7:30-10:30. Ind. 107 ($7.20)
3a Forge I (2) Tu.F. 7:30-10:30, Ind. 7 ($7.20) 
SUPPLEMENTARY TERM1941VOCATIONAL COURSES 
6ITT3NeNE4.2o yN2eOO;pRm.4GRE.3 ARI21N1----
nomics, Costume Economics, Sci
ence, Nursing and Art Education 
are now working. Secretarial 
Training, Illustration, and Indus
trial Designing were slightly less 
with 98 per cent, 90 per cent, and 
91 per cent respectively. The 
students electing general studies 
were harder to place, with only 
60 per cent of these working at 
present. Seventy-five per cent of 
the Music Education majors have 
been placed.
The services of the Bureau are 
free, and at the disposal of any 
student. It assists undergradu
ates by offering opportunities for 
part time and vacation work. 
Funds made available through 
the National Youth Administra
tion are administered through this 
office. Many students of limited 
means have been aided in cover
ing part of their expenses by this 
source.
Eight-Woolc Subjects, May 26 to July 18, 1941
C 52Trigonometry (8), M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, E.H. 201 ($28.80)
C 53b Calculus 1 (8), M.W.F. 7:30-9:30. E.H. 211 ($28.80)
C 04b Calculus III (8), M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, E.H. 21G ($28.80)
C109 English Composition (9), M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, Ind. 251 ($32.40) 
C110 English Composition (9), M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, Ind. 251 ($32.40)
C101 Economics I (9), M.W.F. 7:30-9:30. Ind. 23GA, 237A ($32.40) 
C501 Introductory Psychology (9), M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, Ind. 247 ($32.40)
E 20 Mechonics I (9), M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, Ind. 119A (032.40)
E 21 Mechanics II (9), M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, Ind. 127A ($32.40)
E 81b Physics I (7%), Rec. M.W. 7:30-8:30, F. 7:30-9:30, E.H. 207; 
Lab. M.W. 8:30-10:30, E.H. 204, 102 ($27.00)
Ten-Week Subjects, May 26 to August 1, 1941
E801 Drwg. ( Desc. Geom. I (9), M.W.F. 7:30-10:30, Ind. 345 ($32.40) 
E802 Drwg. & Desc. Geom. II (9). M.W.F. 7:30-10:30, Ind. 345 ($32.40)
100,
Ten-Week Subjects, May 26 to August 1, 1941
C 92 Vocational Mathematics, M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, Ind. 208 ($28.80) 
C 93 Elementary Algebra, M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, Ind. 209 ($28.80 
C 94 Plane Geometry, M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, ind. 211 ($28.80)
C 95 Elementary Trigonometry, M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, Ind. 210 ($28.80) 
V301 Mechanical Drawing A, M.W. 7:30-10:30, Ind. 319 ($14.40)
V302 Mechanical Drawing B, M.W. 7:30-10:30, Ind. 319 ($14,40)
V303 Mechanical Drawing C. M.W. 7:30-10:30, Ind. 319 ($14.40)
V304 Mechanical Drawing D, M.W. 7:30-10:30, Ind. 319 ($14.40)
Sevon-Wcek Subjects, May 26 to July 11, 1941
V281a Oxy-Acetylene Welding I M.W.F. 7:00-10:00, Ind. 135, ($26.40) 
V28lb Oxy-Acetylene Welding II M.W.F. 7:00-10:00, Ind. 135 ($26.40) 
V282a Electric Arc Welding 1 M.W.F. 7:00-10:00, Ind. 135 ($26.40) 
V282b Electric Arc Welding II M.W.F. 7:00-10:00, Ind. 135 ($26.40)
Scotch?n Soda
Began as Revuesical, 
Now is a Musical
When there is a lot of loose tal
ent lying aroundwriting talent, 
acting talent, singing and dancing 
talent, wiring-up electricity tal
entit is only a question of time 
before there isa musical show. 
Of course, its not so simple. 
Someone has to think of having a 
musical show! Four years ago, 
this happened at Tech. Two 
drama students, Leonard Feinblatt and Harry Schofield, not on
ly thought of it, but they went to 
work and organized what they 
called arevuesical which was 
not quite a revue and not quite a 
musical. It was called No Strings 
and ran two performances at the 
Carnegie Music Hall during 
Spring Carnival week.
No Strings 
No Strings was a good show, and 
it also was something new in col
lege musicals. In the first place.
It was an entirely undergraduate 
production. Every one was a stu
dent at Carnegie, from the script
writers to the crew boy who just 
came around to one rehearsal. It 
was 1G refreshing relief to the au
diences to see a college show w'th 
real girls, rather than football 
players with nothing to recom
mend them but a bit of padding. 
A unique feature of No Strings 
was that it was an extra-curricu
lar production, representative of 
the different departments of the 
school. Almost every department 
found, in the course of the pro
duction, some phase that was its 
special province; costumes for the 
costume economics girls, songs and 
orchestra work for the music stu
dents, lighting for the electrical 
engineers.
Club Organized
The success of the show made 
everyone wish to make it an an
nual affair and set the more prac
tical minds to finding a way, and 
the Scotch and Soda Club was or
ganized. The club included the 
entire cast and stage crew of No 
Strings and a Student Council 
charter gave the authority for 
choosing, casting, and producing 
the 1939 show, Take It Straight.
More of a revue than a revue
sical, the second production dem
onstrated that the club organiza
tion was an efficient one by pro
ducing a better and more spirited 
presentation. It was followed by 
last years One On The House 
which played three performances 
instead of the former two, and 
which made the club financially 
independent of Student Council.
Heres To You 
Heres To You, the coming 
production of the Scotch and Soda 
Club, is again something new. It 
is not a musical, nor is it a dis
connected revue. It is what is 
known around Shubert Alley as a 
revue with a book which means 
that it is composed of numbers not 
too closely related, but connected 
by a story running through the 
whole show. The performances 
will be given on April 30, May 1 
and 2 at the Carnegie Music Hall.
During all this time, the Scotch 
and Soda Club has been develop
ing a more far-sighted program 
than the mere production of the 
show. This year the Club has 
conducted a dancing class to train 
the chorus and to give students 
an opportunity to learn tap danc
ing. Plans for the future include 
a scholarship financed by the club: 
running the show a week instead 
of the present three perform
ances: and eventually, a tour of 
the tri-state area.
zo CRGGR2.2GN1
Vo 67 j7
Admission into an Honorary 
Fraternity is the quintessence of 
college achievement. An Honor
ary Fraternity consists of a group 
of men bound together by a com
mon tie, the distinction of public 
recognition for exceptionally fine 
work in a particular field. Elec
tion to an honor society is based 
not only on scholastic achieve
ment, but on activities, person
ality, and leadership as well. The 
honoraries do not maintain hous
es, as do the social fraternities, 
but meet at definite intervals in 
order to transact the business of 
their group. There is no limit to 
the number of honorary societies 
to which a man can belong.
Tau Beta Phi (the Phi Beta 
Kappa of . technical schools) is 
the National Engineering Honor
ary and chooses its members each 
spring and fall from the junior 
and senior classes of the College 
of Engineering. Its purpose, aside 
from conferring distinction on 
those students who have main
tained a high grade of scholar
ship, is to foster a spirit of liber
al culture in engineering stu
dents. Phi Kappa Phi, another 
scholastic honorary which char
tered its Carnegie Tech chapter 
in 1933, is open to both men and 
women from approximately the 
upper tenth of the graduating 
classes of the four colleges. Its 
primary, object is to emphasize 
scholarship and to stimulate 
mental achievement by the prize 
of membership. Tau Sigma Delta, 
a national honorary society which 
falls in the same category, choos
es its members from students of 
high standing in the architectur
al and associated arts.
Eta Kappa Nu is a national 
electrical engineering honorary 
open to students in the depart
ment of Electrical Engineering. 
Its purpose is to bring into closer 
union those men in the profes
sion of electrical engineering 
who have disclosed a deep inter
est and marked ability in their 
chosen lifes work in order that 
mutual benefit may be derived. Pi 
Delta Epsilon is a national journ
alistic fraternity which recogniz
es men who have done meritor
ious work on Carnegie publica
tions and whose aim is to raise 
the standard of all publications. 
Alpha Phi Omega is a scout hon
orary open to students who have 
been scouts. Pi Tau Sigma is a 
national honorary for Mechanic
al Engineers, and Scabbard and 
Blade is open to students taking 
the advanced course in the R. O. 
T. C. Theta Tau, Scarab, and 
Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia are pro
fessional honorary fraternities 
in the fields of engineering, ar
chitecture, and music, respective
ly.
02TOAUo Ru KVoURro flA1Y2: 
SArHOo.27 6OAo727 Ru LROOoT72
zo j.I2GmN zI2wN
The wind moans and whines 
about the long structure. A blast 
of gale proportions sweeps into 
the narrows and between the 
piers with a rush. Suddenly 
wonder of wonders!the bridge 
begins to vibrate, at first fitful
ly and then more and more vio
lently until it seems as if it will 
surely tear itself to bits. Finally, 
Professor Thomas . pulls the 
switch, the wind dies down and 
the snalce-like action of the 
bridge slowly subsides.
Hundreds of visitors to Car
negies Exhibition Night will 
see the bridge perform in the 
amazing way described. The 
structure, a replica of recentlycollapsed Tacoma Bridge, was 
erected by seniors Phillips and 
Banning of the Civil Engineering 
Department under the expert 
guidance of Professor Harold A. 
Thomas, Professor of Mechanics, 
Hydraulics and Sanitary Engin
eering at Tech. In its design, it 
was attempted to stimulate the 
conditions under which the huge 
structure lashed itself to pieces 
and fell, a mass of rubble, into 
the waters below.
The model was built so the 
theory put forward by Professor 
Thomas as to the causes of the 
catastrophe could be tested experi
mentally. Professor Thomas hyPhoto by Alex Eckstein.
pothesisthe first comprehensive 
explanation of the collapse to be 
presentedwas published as an 
article in a recent issue of the 
Engineering News Record. In it, 
he explains that the collapse was 
caused by the torsional vibrations 
set up in the structure by unus
ually strong eddy currents whose 
periods were in harmony with the 
natural period of vibration of the 
bridge.
Anyone who has ever pushed 
a swing can understand the prin
ciple: he knows that if he at
tempts to push the swing while 
it is coming toward him, he meets 
with strong resistance; but if he 
pushes after the swing has be
gun to move away from him, it 
will go much further with the 
same amount of force behind it, 
and further than if he continues 
to exert force in the latter way 
each time the swing returns, the 
amplitude will become greater 
and greater. By the exertion of 
such a series of forces, the ampli
tude of the bridge vibration be
came continually wider until fin
ally, its structural limits were 
exceeded.
As yet the model has not been 
perfected; a more accurate re
production will probably be built 
some time in the future. The 
present model may be seen in 
Engineering Hall, room 50.
Vol.o3 4oN27 CA7.RlE o. Lol32YA2hhh
ARE4GEINS n2Re T.UN O 
elude seven columns.
More conscious than ever of its 
place on the campus, the TAR
TAN in 1926 claimed itself to be 
not merely a college newspaper, 
a pale pink purveyor of news. 
It is far more noble in its pur
poses and attainments, it scintil
lates not in its reports of what 
will and what has happened, but 
it attains its Phoenix as the train
ing ground of Carnegies future 
Arthur Brisbanes and O. Henrys.
Waxing more and more poetic, 
the account of the work of the 
TARTAN staff appearing in the 
1926 THISTLE went on volubly: 
Each story, then, should be 
looked upon as the embryonic ef
fort. of an undeveloped genius, 
each editorial as the grit which 
will be rounded into a pearl of 
wisdom, and when at any time 
the TARTAN appears to chronicle 
unhappened history, remember 
that here are suppressed simmerings of a latent seer whom the 
world may some day hail as a 
great politician, economist, or 
historian.
The 1927 TARTAN was award
ed a distinguished rating by the 
National College Press Congress.
The year 1928 was one of reor
ganization and enlargement. The 
staff was enlarged to almost twice 
that of former years, and the 
paper itself grew from four to 
eight pages.
The TARTAN of 1934 took top 
honors at the spring convention 
of the Intercollegiate Newspaper 
Association of the Middle Atlantic 
States. That year the TARTAN 
became critical of the existing 
set-up on the campus. Student 
government was one of the first 
factors to feel the force of its 
attack, when TARTAN editorials 
stressed the need for honest, fair 
elections, and more equal representation Student Council. Inves
tigations were started which in
quired into the duties of class 
officers and ultimately discovered 
much laxity in a great many of 
the student positions.
Toward the end of 1933, the 
TARTAN offices were enlarged 
and re-equipped. New floor space, 
new furniture and files, new 
lighting fixtures, and new floor
ing helped give Carnegie one of 
the finest college newspaper of
fices in the country.
Pittsburghs great flood in 1936 
stopped the TARTAN presses and 
although the staff did its part, 
mechanical difficulties made it 
necessary to cut out one issue. 
The next issue found the TAR
TAN working under considerable 
difficulties. At the eleventh hour 
the paper was taken to Ohio to 
be printed. In this issue an entire 
page was devoted to flood pic
tures.
For the first time in the history 
of the paper, a complete photo 
section was printed. Entire pages 
of photos appeared at irregular 
intervals during the year.
A point system for the Scimi
tars and for the Delta Skulls was 
devised through the constant urgings of the TARTAN editorials of 
the school year 1936-37. Another 
big accomplishment of the fall 
of 1936 was a Presidential poll 
conducted by the TARTAN. The 
paper urged student support of 
the community fund that year as 
a part of its editorial policy.
The school year 1937-38 was 
one of unprecedented excitement 
for the TARTAN. Walter Ellis, 
non-fraternity man, was editor 
that year, but not for long.
Everything went quite smooth
ly as long as Editor Ellis devoted 
his editorial column to discreet 
lambasting of the students for 
their lack of school spirit. But
when he had the audacity to in
sinuate that Student Council was 
merely a bunch of stooges, the 
fraternity men who ran Council 
came to the conclusion that the 
TARTAN editor had overstepped 
his bounds.
Next day saw the name of 
Katherine Thomas heading the 
masthead instead of that of the 
ousted Ellis. Upon being present
ed a petition signed by 1,000 irate 
students, however, the Student 
Council put its collective heads 
together and came up with the 
proposition that it was only fair 
to reinstate the ousted Independ
ent.
That Ole Debbil Ineligibility 
caught up with friend Ellis, how
ever and it became necessary to 
select a new editor because of the 
incumbents low factor. Kjell 
Lyngheim was brought up from 
the sports staff to take over the 
head post. Once more the TAR
TAN editorials settled down to a 
recital of platitudes about the 
students lack of school spirit.
Bernard Lewis, editor in 1939- 
40, carried on a vigorous cam
paign for amelioration of fresh
man regulations, enlisting the 
support of faculty members and 
others in an effort to show the 
uselessness and cruelty of the reg
ulations. Student Council, as a 
result of this editorial campaign, 
appointed a committee who pro
posed the revised freshman reg
ulations which went into effect in 
the fall of 1940.
Another of the successes of the 
TARTAN editorials of 1940 was 
the winning of spring elections 
by an independent coalition of 
dormitories, commuters, and 
small fraternities. The TARTAN 
editorials exposing the results of 
fraternity control of students ac
tivities were a big factor in the 
Independent victory.

---------------------------------------------------

Bttm
FRIDAY, APRIL 25, 1941THE CARNEGIE TARTAN11
THE FINEST GIFT
FOR GRADUATE 
OR STUDENT...
A Fine Insurance Policy
EDWARD A. WOODS
 AGENCY 
Equitable Life Assurance Society
FRICK BUILDING

---------------------------------------------------

CIB,CD
ee7
.Mtillllf

Si?'
le)
1-Administration Hall, 2-Industries Hall, 3-Machinery Hall, 4-Engineering 
Hall, 5-College of Fine Alts, 6-Margaret Morrison Carnegie College, 
7-Gymnasium, 8-Commons, 9-Library, 10-Carnegie Inn, 11-Dormitories for 
Men, 12,13 and 14-Dormitories for Women
KinORED mcLEARy IOS7
_?_________________________________________________________________________________THE CARNEGIE TARTAN_____________________________________ FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 1941
The Founder  The Institute
by Dill King 
As early ;is 1880, Andrew Car
negie bogan to appreciate the 
need lor an Institution of prac
tical education to furnish train
ed engineers and technicians to 
this countrys rapidly mushroom
ing Industry. For a long time this 
thought lurked, in the buck of his 
mind, but did not jell until he 
paid a visit in September of 1900 
to Ileighley Institute, York, Eng
land. Here was a school which 
approached the type he had long 
been considering. The impetus 
which this visit furnished to Mr. 
Carnegies plan culminated in a 
letter which he read at a banquet 
given at the Hotel Schenley in 
his honor by the trustees of the 
Carnegie Institute on November 
15, 1900.
Carnegies Gift 
This letter was the birth cer
tificate of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, for in it Andrew 
Carnegie announced a gift of one 
njillion dollars to serve as an en
dowment fund for a technical 
school to be located on a site 
provided by the city. The re
sponsibility for organizing and 
bringing the school into exist
ence was given to the Trustees 
of Carnegie Institute.
During the next five years the 
plan developed from its embry
onic stage on paper into a fin
ished product of brick and steel. 
After many delays, thirty-two 
acres of land adjoining Schen
ley Park were chosen as the site 
of the new school, land was brok
en, construction of the first build
ingIndustries Hall was begun, 
Arthur A. Humerschlog was ap
pointed director, and finally on 
October 10, 1905, the first class, 
consisting of 120 students, enter
ed, the .portals of Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology.
The college life during the first 
few years of Tech's existence was 
indeed a fur cry from that of 
today. The students attended 
classes to the angry buzz of the 
riveters and the banging of the 
carpenters hammers. The tuition 
was only twenty dollars a year 
for local students and thirty dol
lars for non-residents of Pitts
burgh. All of the courses were 
sub-collegiate, covering a period 
of three years, and leading to a 
diploma, but not a degree. Small 
as the student body was, it was 
certainly not lacking initiative, 
for by the end of the first year 
many traditions which have last
ed to the present day had been 
established. In honor of the 
founders ancestry, the Carnegie 
plaid was chosen as the school 
colors and the wealth of Scot
tish lore and names, now such an 
integral part of our school, was 
first instituted in the spring of 
that memorable year. The Glee 
club was organized and made its 
initial appearance, the first base
ball game and track meet were 
held, the first fraternity was 
formed and the first Thistle was 
published. During the following 
fall, Carnegie embarked in her 
turbulent football career, but no 
official score for that opening 
game has ever been found. On 
October 29, the first issue of the 
TARTAN was published. Without 
a doubt, however, the event of 
greatest import was the coming 
of the first class of Margaret 
Morrison college to the campus 
in March, 190G. Because of lack 
of accommodations, their classes 
were initiately held in Industries 
Hall, but in September, 1907, the 
women moved to the recently 
completed Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie College which they still 
occupy.
From this date on the student 
body enlarged and acquired new 
buildings at a rapid rate. The sci
ence men crossed the campus to 
Engineering 1-Iall in 1908, the Arts 
building was finished in 1912, 
with the two wings being added 
in 1916. In 1912, a low, one-story
power plant climaxed its evolu
tion and became Machinery Hall 
as we know it today. Two years 
later Administration Hall fol
lowed. Between that date and 
1924, when the gymnasiumthe 
final important building to be 
erectedwas built, the mens
Andrew Carnegie, Founder
- The Progress
dorms and Langley Laboratory 
the present Commonscame into 
being.
Course Expanded
In keeping with those material 
developments, the curriculum 
was also progressing rapidly. Be
cause Carnegie graduates began 
to find the lack of a degree detri
mental and a handicap in obtain
ing employment, and since the 
entering Freshmen were more 
and more demanding -advanced 
instruction, the course of study 
was put on a collegiate basis 
and expanded to four years. By 
1912 the quality of the instruction 
and course material had prog
ressed sufficiently to warrant 
a charter of incorporation from 
the Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania and Carnegie Tech was em
powered to confer degrees. At 
this time, the original name 
Carnegie Technical Schools was 
changed to Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. During the ensuing 
years, Carnegie grew so rapidly 
that by the time the United 
States entered World War I, it 
was prepared to shoulder a tre
mendous portion of the military 
training program. During the two 
years of this countrys participa
tion in the war, approximately 
10,000 persons were given train
ing here, and at the end of the 
war alone, 3,600 soldiers and ci
vilians were under instruction on 
the campus.
Carnegies Death
On August 11, 1919, the campus 
was thrown into mourning by the 
death of its beloved founder.. Up 
until the time of his death Andrew Carnegie was known and 
loved by students and faculty 
alike. During his lifetime, he vis
ited the school five times, and 
each time the wholehearted re
spect and admiration paid him 
by the teachers and pupils well 
repaid his most generous gift.
By the time the school had 
progressed so rapidly that the 
original funds were found to be 
inadequate for many desired 
changes in the campus and build
ings. So with this in mind, the 
Carnegie Corporation of New 
York agreed to give Tech eight 
million dollars on July 1, 1946, 
provided that the school could 
secure four million by that time.
Bakers Changes
During the Baker administra
tion two events, were outstand
ing. The first was the series of 
International conferences on Bi
tuminous coal. Five thousand 
delegates, numbering some of the 
worlds outstanding scientists, 
represented twenty-one foreign 
countries at these conferences. 
The international import of these 
meetings was widely realized and 
materially added to Carnegie 
Techs prestige the world over. 
The second change which Baker 
instituted was the consolidating 
of the Industries College with the 
present college of Engineering. 
This was done because the cours
es of the old college of Industries 
were not on an equal academic 
footing with the Engineering and 
Arts courses; the students were 
handicapped, and its usefulness 
was outlived. For these reasons, 
the college was discontinued, with 
the more important courses being 
taken over by the College of En
gineering.
Dr. Bakers remarkable career 
as President of Carnegie Tech 
was terminated by his retirement 
due to ill health in September, 
1935, and he was succeeded by 
Dr. Robert E. Dohertyour pres
ent Presidentin March, 1936.
View of the Carnegie Tech Campus
Tliis View of llie Carnegie Tech Campus Was Drawn by Kindred McLeary, Professor of Arckitecture at Carnegie Tech.
