Guglielmo John 
Discusses 
Regulations 
See Page 9
Carman Sets 
New 
Course RecordSee Page 5
VOL. 46No. 6CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYWED., OCT. 22, 1952
Announce Tentative Plans For Dorm
Classes Cancelled 
For Half Of Friday
Permitted By Dr. Warner To Aid
Participation In Homecoming Events
President J. C. Warner has announced that day classes on Fri
day, October 24, will end at 11:30 a.m. This is a change from the 
first announced plan which would let classes out from 11:30 a.m. 
to 1:30 p.m. The change, which eliminates afternoon classes, is 
designed to allow students more#--------------------------------------------------------
time for preparation and partici
pation in Homecoming Activities.
This action was brought about 
by the plans and program com
mittee of Student Council under 
the direction of Bill Stewart. The 
extra time in this years program 
will not be scheduled for future 
Homecoming weekends unless 
there is good participation by Tech 
students in the Friday afternoon 
and evening activities. This will 
give the fraternities and other 
groups added time to complete 
their decorations.
Dont miss any of the Home
coming events beginning with the 
Carnegie day program at 11:30 
a.m. on Friday. At this time the 
Homecoming queen will be an
nounced and calls will be made 
b: seven campus honoraries. "Fol
lowing this there will be guided 
tours around the campus for alum
ni and any interested students.
The Homecoming schedule is 
made up for tha next four years, 
and the two hours at noon is the 
only scheduled break. If the ad
ministration decides student in
terest warrants a change, this 
years plan will be continued.
Elections Set 
For Today
After ten days of vigorous cam
paigning on the part of the fresh
man class officer and homecoming 
queen candidates, students will go 
to the polls tomorrow to vote for 
their choices.
The electioneering has been the 
most extensive and hard-fought 
that CIT has seen in quite a while, 
and an unusally heavy vote is ex
pected.
Freshmen will cast ballots for 
their choices for president, sec
retary, treasurer, and the vicepresident of their respective col-' 
leges. All undergraduates men 
students are eligible to vote for 
the queen, who will reign over 
the homecoming festivities.
Voting will take place between 
11:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. Wednes
day, October 22. Polls will be 
set up in Skibo, Engineering hall, 
Administration Hall, Margaret 
Morrison, and the Fine Arts build
ing. Voting will be by preferent
ial ballot, and instructions will 
be-printed on each ballot.
Campus Not Same As Model
L. H. Miller Discloses Reasons
Why isnt the campus shaping up in accordance with the model 
layout in Administration hall? was a point blank question at Mr. 
L. H. Miller, head of the operations department.
It was brought to his attention that a theater was scheduled
to be budt where the SI A build?--------------------------------------------------------
ing now is, and that womens 
dormitories were to be placed on 
the site of Whitfield hall.
Need Angels 
The model layout, he said,
was built in 1937 during Mr.
Dohertys presidency, to show the 
buildings we needed and possible 
locations of them.
But buildings cost money,
Mr. Miller explained, and once
Chapel Program
The chapel committee and 
Mr. Davis of the YMCA have 
planned the semesters chapel 
and assembly talks. The first 
of these is on November II 
when the speaker will be 
General Priestly, British au
thority on international and 
human relations and vicechairman of the speakers re
search committee for the 
United Nations. On November 
25 Dr. Freehof will be the 
guest speaker. The annual 
Christmas chapel will be hed 
on December I*5
we decide what we . need, all we 
can do is keep it on file and wait 
for somebody to give it to us. He 
referred to anyone who donated 
money for a building as an angel 
from Heaven.
Many times people will give 
structures that arent on the plan. 
For example, the SIA Building 
given by William L. Mellon had 
not been projected before.
Theater Begs 
In acase like that, Mr. Mil
ler said, we certainly dont say 
Sorry, we cant take that. Its not 
in our scheme. We jump at the 
chance. Thus the theater had to 
go begging while SIA took over 
its land.
Other times an alternative 
plan will come up whereby the 
school can accomplish its result 
with less expense. When Morewood Gardens became available 
in 1946, the plan of tearing down 
Whitfield hall was abandoned. 
Morewood is a fine building, 
commented * Mr. Miller, and we 
would like to use it for a good 
many more years.
More Forthcoming 
We have considered" replacing 
IContinued, on page 12]
Closed Doors
Attention, bookworms and 
gourmets! The libraries, each 
and everyone of them, will be 
closed from 11:15 a.m. to 12:30 
p.m. on Friday, October 24.
Skibo will close its doors at 
11:30 a.m. and reopen at 12:00 
noon.
Dr. Warner Discloses 
Funds Being Sought
Following the article in last weeks Tartan concerning 
the conditions in the FPHA barracks, Dr. J. C. Warner, presi
dent of Carnegie Tech, announced plans for the construction 
of a new mens dormitory as soon as the money for the pro------------------------------------------------?ject can be found.
 , .?*. > >* 
V' , - ,'v-. >.' - ** 7-' :.-i' -' ' * v':;'
Controversial Barracks
Some sayThe Army at its best
Highlight Of Call Day 
Is Oueen Coronation
A Scottish version of The Pied Piper will take place before 
Carnegie day exercises on Friday, October 24, when the bagpipers 
parade Tech campus, escorting the audience to the main gymnasium. 
Two highland dancers, Robby Shand and Mary Elizabeth Davidson,
will lead the procession, which ?---------------------------------------------------------
begins at 11:15 a.m. In co-operation with the Carnegie day pro
gram, Skibo and the dormitory 
cafeteria will be closed from 
11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.
Eunice Brunn, Mortar Boards 
chairman of Carnegie day, has 
announced that several honors 
and calls will be awarded. Sev
en school-wide honoraries will 
call members; Mortar Board will 
award the scholarship cups to the 
fraternity and sorority having the 
highest average factors; the Panj 
Hell scholarship cup will also be 
awarded. For the first time in its 
history, PanHell will award a 
cash scholarship.
Queen Crowning
Richard McFadden, senior dramat, has been chosen as master 
of ceremonies. Speakers on the 
program include Dale E. Strick 
and Dr. J. C. Warner.
A highlight of the day will be 
naming and crowning of the 
Homecoming queen and her court.
Mortar Board has promised that 
this years coronation festivities 
will be vei^ royal, carried out 
in the Carnegie day theme of
plaid. The queen and her two at
tendants will enter the gymna
sium under the crossed swords of 
Scabbard and Blade.
Entertainment Provided 
Entertainment will be a return 
appearance of Robby Shand and 
Mary Elizabeth Davidson, who 
will perform the Highland fling 
and Sword dance.
Final event of the exercises 
will be the queens official open
ing of Homecoming week-end.
[Continued on page 12]
Study Series
Freshman attendance is re
quired for the first of a series 
of meetings on How To 
Study, to be held in the Car
negie theater 11:30 a.m. Tues
day, October 28. Dr. Morgan, 
head of the bureau of meas
urement and guidance, will 
speak on how to solve study 
'T*f'b,"Tr
Carter Elected 
Pledge IF Prexy 
This Semester
At a meeting held last Wed-! 
nesday evening at the Beta Sigma 1 
Rho house, this semesters IntraI 
faternity Pledge Council elected i 
officers and made plans for coming j 
activities. Woody Carter, Beta 
Theta Pi, will serve as president' 
and Tom Shrimp. Phi Kappa, was I 
elected vice-president. John Marj 
chiando, Delta Upsilon, was chosen j 
as secretary and Dave Fisher, Beta 
Sigma Rho, as treasure.
The Intrafraternity Pledge 
Council serves as a clearing house 
for all problems arising between 
pledge classes. If also plans events 
and activities for the campus 
pledges.
The council is sponsoring the 
pledge cheer contest which will 
be held at theh pep rally before 
the homecoming game. The winn| 
ing pledge class' will receive a 
cup. i
When pressed for a statement 
by the local papers, who were try
ing to determine the merits or de
merits of the Tartan article, Dr. 
Warner said, With todays high 
building costs it is impossible to 
amortize the full cost of a dormi
tory by means of student rent, but 
we are going to find this money in 
some way. It would be a great 
help if some angel would give us 
the dormitory or provide a sub
stantial portion of its building 
cost.
Seeking Funds
Although the plans for the new 
dorm are under way, the site has 
not been definitely selected. The 
school is now at the point of form
ally engaging the architects and 
studying various possible sites with 
about one-fourth of the construc
tion funds available. Meanwhile, 
Dr. Warner assured, every effort 
is being made to secure the addi
tional money needed to bring this 
phase of campus life up to the 
standard of our other housing 
facilities.
There are seven dormitories on 
the campus that can be classified 
as permanent, but their combined 
facilities plus those of the barracks 
still cannot handle all of the men 
students desiring housing. The 
barracks were built during the 
summer of 1946 to handle the huge 
enrollment increase and were sup
posed to have been completely 
torn down by the summer of 1951.
No Definite Dates
While no definite plans are 
available on the size or location of 
the new dormitory, it has been 
stated that it will not be designed 
to be high price or luxurious, but 
will offer the student all necessi
ties besides being a very econom 
ical place to live.
Until some method is arranged to 
finance the construction, the fir 1 
plans or dates cannot be deter
mined. It probably will be begun 
this year, however, since the school 
plans to remove the last two wings 
of the FPHA barracks this sum
mer.
Frosh Candidates
Certified candidates for each 
office are as folldws: President: 
Walt Ender, Robert DiBease, 
Earl Gose, Jim Boyd. William 
Stevenson, Bill Minkler, Tom 
Wright, Louis Teti. Secretary: 
Lin Smith, Don Croucher, 
Anne Barnes, Tom Schriempf. 
Treasurer: Sig Lanstrom, Basil 
Louros, Ray Parsick, Dave 
Robertson, Ray Bebb, Ruth 
Rand.
Vice-president, E & S: Mark 
Diniaco, Jerry Roy, Willard 
Patterson. Ernest Sczhoenfeld. 
Dave Hubbard. Don Gross, Ed 
Eld.
Vice-president, FA: Gerald 
Gurland. James Morgan, John 
Conboy, Roger Carlsen.
Vicere sident, MMCC: 
Terry Meredith, Carole Currey, Janet Bishop.
Vice-president, H&SS: Ken
neth Draper, James Tilibrook.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, October 22, 1952
British A-Bomb May Have 
Interesting Consequences
Little Man On Campusby Bibler
The following is the first in a seines of articles in the Tartan* 
to treat with significant events of intematinoal and national affairs. 
These articles, which will be in the form of analyses of an import
ant happening of the recent past, are to be written by Professors Rob
ert Schwarz and Thomas Helde of the Carnegie department of history.
By Professor Robert Schwarz
On October 3, the first British atom bomb was exploded, about 
50 miles from western Australia. Although speculation that it was 
the worlds first hydrogen bomb was not taken too seriously, some 
British experts claim that it was a far more powerful bomb than any 
of the 32 American ones exploded since 1945.
It is fairly difficult to evaluate this claim because on the one 
hand the United States has not shared any atomic secrets with her 
allies, and on the other hand, American observers, probably in 
retaliation, were not admitted to the Monte Bello experiment on 
October 3.
Only Three Countries
As far as can be known at the present time, the United States, 
the Soviet Union, and the United Kingdom are the only three coun
tries to have tested atomic bombs. What influence will the ac
quisition of the bomb on the part of Britain have on international 
relations? The British seem to hope that the United States will 
change its policy of secrecy, now that there is little point in treat
ing Britain as an outsider.
Whether this hope will materialize is a question only the future 
can answer. However, in view of Stalins recent prediction that the 
capitalistic countries (and he numbers Britain among these, in spite 
of post-war British emancipation from free enterprise capitalism) 
will go to war against each other, it is to be hoped that the British 
A-bomb will not only lead to an armament race between America 
and Britain but will, indeed, cement Anglo-American relations and 
safeguard at least a quantative preponderance of atomic weapons 
for the free world.
Security Is Question
Some Americans express fear that Britain will not guard her 
secret as well as she should. They remember the Klaus Fuchs 
treason case which they blame on British negligence and laxity. 
To this must be answered that all experts concur that the harm 
has already been done; the Soviet Union has the know-how of the 
atom bomb; and as far as Soviet experts stealing an improved 
technique is concerned, it must not be overlooked that since the 
RosenbergFuchs case Britain has tightened her security system. 
It is still an open question whether the FBI or Scotland Yard are 
the better spy catchers.
New Policy Seen ' .
If it is the express policy of the West to overawe the Soviet 
Union by overwhelming force, the experiment at Monte Bello must 
be greeted as a further step toward that goal. Whether the McMahon 
act of 1946, forbidding the sharing of American atomic secrets, 
will be modified must await, among other things, the outcome of 
the election. It seems safe to predict, however, that an all-out re
peal will not be forthcoming for the time being, no matter what 
party wins the election. For the bi-partisan feeling in Congress 
appears to be that while Britain may be a more or less trustworthy 
friend, another power may not be. This feeling may be offset, how
ever, by Britains developing a hydrogen bomb before we do. In 
that case we may benefit by a general sharing of secrets more than 
we would lose. The McMahon act will then lose its original pur
pose, namely that America should not let other powers in on her 
atomic secrets. It would be interesting to watch whether in such a 
case Britain will repay us in kind by a similar act of her own. 
The Russians will be interested more than anybody else.
Pan Hell Dance 
Scheduled For 
November 8
Sorority girls and their dates 
will dance to the music of the pop
ular Clyde Knight, his orchestra 
and featured vocalists; Mary Lou 
Love and Billy Douglas, at the an
nual .PanHell Formal to be held 
Saturday, November 8, in the 
Schenley hotel.
Clyde Knights styie  smooth 
and sweet in the Guy Lombardo 
mannerhas won him many en
gagements at Pittsburgh high 
schools, colleges and country clubs. 
Appearances at Kennywood and 
West View parks, such places as 
the Vogue Terrace, Bill Greens 
and many other night clubs, are an 
indication of orchestras popular
ity.
Jo Weihl, social chairman of the 
PanHell Council, has commented 
that, as usual, flowers will be 
omitted.
She has also, on behalf of the 
Council, extended an invitation to 
all stray sorority Greeks to at
tend this dance.
Library Slot
A book slot cut in the cen
ter door of Margaret Morrison 
library now provides a special 
service to students desiring to 
return books when the library 
is closed, Laura Hyland, li
brarian, has announced.
A few students have been 
putting books on the floor in 
ront of the regular library en
trance. They are asked to use 
the book slot.
All overdue books, of course, 
should be returned to the li
brary in person, Miss Hyland 
pointed out.
Mr. Abrams 
Welcomes You Alumni
'W
STOP IN
' AND SAY HELLO
ILL BE GLAD TO SEE YOU
CAMPUS
CLEANERS
4609 FORBES STREET
Dry Cleaning Laundry
Seemillers
Luncheonette
4601 Forbes Street
Corner Forbes and Craig
Complete 
Short Order Service
o---
SChenley 1-9894
Dont forget, now, we let em intercept THIS one.
Save Time and Trouble 
Use a
RUBBER STAMP
 for 
? Signatures
? Addressing
? Laundry Marking
One Day Service 
Call
Jas. H. Matthews & Co.
MUseum 1-8500
3942 Forbes St. Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
There's lots of excitement 
around the dance floorgreeting 
old friends, making new ones* 
Part of the fun of campus parties] 
is the pause to enjoy a Coke.
It's delicious... refreshing, too.
Campus 
capers 
I forca
Coke
Coif" k o rgM*rrf
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHOtlTY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF PA., PITTSBURGH, PA.
trod -mark.  1952, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 22, 1952CARNEGIE TARTANPage S
9Sophomores HandFrosh Bsating, 3-2
Warner Makes 
A npointments
President J. C. Warner has an
nounced the appointment of four 
faculty members to full professors. 
He also has named ten new asso
ciate and six new assistant profes
sors.
In the College of Engineering 
and Science, Dr. Robert Burnell 
Carlin has been promoted to pro
fessor of Chemistry. Appointed as
sociate professors in the same col
lege were Dr. John William Gra
ham, Jr., civil engineering; Dr. 
Robert Ghormley Parr, chemistry; 
Dr. Robert Randile Rothus, chem
ical engineering; and Dr. Edward 
Ralph Schatz, electrical engineer
ing. New assistant professors of 
mechanical engineering are Wil| 
liam C. Leone and John F. Osf 
terle.
Fine Arts
In the College of Fne Arts, Rob
ert Lewis Lepper has been pro
moted to professor of design and 
Samuel Rosenberg, professor of 
painting. Appointed as assistant 
professor of architecture was Rob
ert Samuel Taylor.
Promoted to full professor of 
home economics in the Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie College was 
Doris Edna Meyers. Martha Peadon Eggers has been appointed 
associate professor of biology and 
Grace Elizabeth Patterson, asso
ciate professor of secretarial 
studies. Two new assistant pro
fessors, one of secretarial studies 
and the other of home economics 
in Margaret Morrison are Betty 
Jane Lloyd and Gladys Jones 
Phillips.
Library School
The new assistant professor of 
English in the College of Human
istic and Social Studies is Astere 
C. Claeyssens, Jr. Dr. David Gor
don Tyndall has been appointed 
associate professor of economics 
of industrial administration. Asociate professor of library sci
ence in the Library School of 
Carnegie is Sara Katherine Vann.
... ;
;
" - ' 
-Tw
FroshSoph Competition
The big ball takes it toll
Election
Music Recital
Webster Aitken, professor of 
piano in the music department, 
will play informally for the stu
dents and the faculty in the Ex
hibition hall, College of Fine 
Arts, Sunday, October 26, at 
8:00 p.m.
Two Schubert sonatas will be 
the program; G Major, Op. 78 
and D Major, Op. 53.
AEC Provides Ever-Shifting 
Control of Atomic Affairs
The recent appointment of Dr. J. C. Warner to the general 
advisory committee for the Atomic Energy commission, along with 
Dr. Eugene Wigner, professor of physics and applied mathematics, 
Princeton University, and Dr. James B. Fisk, director of physical 
research, Bell Telephone labora-* 
tories, came as a surprise to many 
Carnegie students.
The Atomic Energy act of 1946 
established the Atomic Energy 
commission. This act also provides 
that there shall be a general ad
visory committee to advise the 
AEC on scientific and technical 
matters relating to materials, pro
duction, and research and develop
ment, to be composed of nine 
members, who shall be appointed j 
from civilian life by the Presi! 
dent.
It was provided that three of 
the initial appointments should be 
made for a full term of six years, 
three for four years, and three for 
two years. The three members 
whose terms expired on August 1, 
were James B. Conant, president 
of Harvard University; Lee A.
DuBridge, president of California 
Institute of Technology, and J. R.
Oppenheimer, director of the In
stitute for Advanced Study.
Class Of 55 Shames 
Gigantic Frosh Squad
For the first time in recent history, the sophomores won the 
frosh-soph competition. On Saturday afternoon a courageous and 
spirited sophomore team downed an equally spirited and numerically 
Superior freshman team in the annual competition by a score of 3-2.
The game was played on the cut#------------------------------ ------- ----
before an estimated crowd of 1247 | ally quelled by the intervention 
with a huge (7 feet in diameter) of a high official of the adminisball in two grueling eight minute tration, the principal offenders 
halves. were ejected from the game, and
Many Freshmen play was resumed.
The freshmen, eager to take adNo More Dinks
vantage of the unlimited substituThe sophomores climaxed a 30 
tion rule, had three complete playard drive to push across the v. in
toons of twenty men each plus a ; ning score in the next few minfourth incomplete platoon which 1 utes of play. Then with the clock 
showed up on the fieldin th running out the freshmen staged 
wayevery 32 seconds. The soph; a valiant last trybut in vain, 
omore team, supplemented by irThe exhausted yet determined 
regular sophomores (or, if you sophomores withstood the onprefer, juniors, seniors, post-grads, slaught and the clock ran out with 
and alumni), had one complete just two yards to go. The much 
platoon. I touted freshman team had their
Frosh Lead 2-1 ; ears pinned back.
The half saw a jubilant frosh ! Although they were down in
team leading the sophomores, who 
were sprawled all over the field, 
by a 2-1 margin. The half-time 
entertainment by the New York 
Philharmonic was called off be
score the freshmen were not 
down in spirit. They hustled the 
less fleet-footed of the referees 
to the Beta Sig pond and there 
conducted a fair and just trial.
Patronize
Tartan
Advertisers
Boys!! Dont miss your 
chance to elect your favorite 
freshman girl as Homecoming 
queen. The feature event of 
the Homecoming dance will be 
the coronation of the queen 
and the honoring of her court. 
The nine beautiful girls, listed 
in order according to the ac
cident of their last names are: 
Betty Dunlap, Jo Forsythe, 
Jeanie McCain, Sue Murdoch, 
Louise Peters, Linda Rushton, 
Lin Smith, Judy Storch, and 
Shirley Wilson. Youve met 
these girls, youve seen their 
pictures, and now you can ex
ercise your voting right.
All male undergraduate stu
dents at Tech are eligible.
The polls will be in Skibo, 
Wednesday, October 22, be
tween 11:30 and 1:30.
; cause the concertmaster was suf; The referee left to put on some 
fering from a hangnail. The queen dry clothes.
candidates and a few other extrafro-h were to continue to
neous characters graced the sports j wear their dinks and observe 
epic with their presence. freshman traditions if they lost.
__ , , __ , . However, in view of the excellentThe second half brought a ; .  ,. . . ii . i game played, the requirement wasquick score by the sophomores . j .? . ,, _ . _ ... waived by unanimous consent,tying the game at 2-all. At this_______J ______________________ _
point a few over-enthusiastic!
freshmen felt that they could best
| aid their cause by moving the
 goal-line markers. An enraged
| sophomore flew into the midst of
j them, fists swinging. Bedlam
broke loose. The riot was eventuRENT A TYPEWRITER
*4.00
A Month
3 MONTHS 
FOR $10
TYPEWRITERS
All Kinds V Low *s29so
American Typewriter Co.
11 Wood St. (0.1-1019
Convenient Parking 1 " w 1 *
For Your Next 
FRATERNITY OR 
SORORITY AFFAIR
PINES
FERRY HIGHWAY 
ROUTE 19
Reservations for Weddings, 
Banquets and Private Parties 
CALL
WEllington 1-2131
SUNDAY DINNERS 12-S
A secure future, exceptional opportunities for advancement, 
and a high starting salary await you at OL.46.NoW if you are 
one of the men we are looking for. We have openings right 
now for qualified engineers and designers in all phases of 
aircraft manufacturing; we need top-notch men to help us in 
our long-range military program: turning out the famous 
C-119 Hying Boxcar and other projects for theU. S. Air Force.
OL.46.No provides paid vacations and liberal health and 
life insurance coverage. We work a 5-day, 40-hour week as a ^ 
base. Premium is paid when longer work week is scheduled.
C ll asensa csd cnForcsa HfFofFcOnfs
iAIRCHILDrfimafiDimim
HAGERSTOWN, MARYLAND
The FLAMINAIRE is the only 
Butane Gas Lighter that's 
proved by more than 300.000 
delighted owners everywhere.
Get One at...
YOUR CAMPUS DRUG STORE
wooni.ww
PHARMACY
Forbes at Margaret Morrison

---------------------------------------------------

Pate 4-CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, October 22, 1952
Letters
Johns Partner
Editor, the Tartan:
I had the honor to be the partner of a notori
ous Techite in a metaphysics lab a few Tuesdays 
ago (the month and date will be supplied on re
quest) and being bored with science in general, 
we went in search of a chunk of black bread and 
a slab of cheese in Skibo.
But on the way he suddenly became attracted 
by a huge crowd heading for what he thought to 
be a public hanging in the mens gym, and with 
the devil horns sticking out of his forehead a lit 
otle more than normal, he went to see the spec
tacle; I spent the next few minutes looking for 
these horns. To my surprise I saw my partner in 
a comer with his coat collar turned up, hat 
pulled over his horns, and his usual cigarette 
dropping from the corner of his mouth. To his 
dismay the public hanging seemed in reverse; Im 
not sure if the noose around his neck or the 
squirming of his conscience made the beads of 
perspiration collect on his brow, but the things he 
heard that afternoon made him, for the first time, 
notice those horns on his head.
After the meeting he ran to his particularly 
knotty parchment on the 'phlogis ton theory for 
here the horns were not nearly as noticeable.
Signed,
Partner.
Although, because of space limitations, we are 
not able to print all the letters brought forth as 
a result of Mr. Johns visit to chapel, we wish to 
thank all of you for your interest and effort in 
writing your protests.
Specifically to Johns partner: After several 
careful readings I have decided you wish to tell 
us that the chapel of September 30 incited a feel
ing of guilt in the writer of the article. If it 
makes you happy to believe this, go ahead and 
do so.
Finally, it seems to me that there has been a 
great change since the days when people allowed 
themselves to be thrown to the lions until now. 
when some are reluctant to have their names pub
lished in a public journal. But you may take com
fort in the fact, partner, that many of your com
forts are so faint of heart.
R. Durstine.
FPHA Protest
Editor, the Tartan:
The article concerning FPHA in the last issue 
of the Tartan caused a storm of angry protest 
from FPHA residents, many of whom are living 
there by choice and not because they were forced 
to take a room in the barracks. Everyone is agreed 
that you exaggerated the facts so as to give a 
false impression of FPHA, but many went further 
and declared that many of your statements were 
completely untrue.
We would like to make it clear that we who 
live in the barracks are no more underprivileged 
than any group of CIT students. Regardless of 
your opinion, FPHA is a pleasant place in which 
to live. Having a room in the barracks gives one 
the advantage of low-cost housing, ease of ob
taining a single room, and freedom to use his 
talents as an interior decorator. In addition, a 
friendly atmosphere is found in FPHA which does 
not exist in the other thick-walled rat-proof 
mens dormitories.
(Signed)
Gilmore Harris 
August Leon DeVos.
OFFICES: Carnegie Union 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, 
Pa. TELEPHONE: SCheniey 1-4557, after hours MUseuin
1-5380: for advertising and subscriptions: MUseum 2-3990. 
Published weekly, during the school year except holidays 
and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editor-in-Cbief ...................................................... Fred Sonnenberg
Business Manager ..................... ,v. .................... David Goldsmith
Managing Editor  ............. .............................. Dick Durstine
Co-Sport Editors ............................. Walt Wagner, Frank Fegley
News Editor ............................................................... Estelle Herlick
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL AD
VERTISING, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 
Madison Ave., New York City. Subscription $1.10 per year.
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at 
the Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa., under the Act of March 3, 
1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage pro
vided for in the Act of February 28. 1925.
Member of the Associated College Press.
Dont Change Horses
A couple of peculiar twists came out of the blast (as 
the newspapers like to put it ) carried by the Tartan last 
week on the FPHA barracks. Before the article was writ
ten, many people who had moved out of the ^barracks were 
cornered and gave the opinion that the place belonged in 
history rather than on campus. Also several residents of 
the barracks had the same ideas, and said they were glad 
to see the Tartan handle it. But, when the first of the local 
newspaper reporters went to the barracks, he got the story 
that the fellows were satisfied to be living there because it 
offered them very economical housing and numerous privil
eges.
None of these fellows were bothered by the fact that 
he was living in a virtual fire trap. He readily admit
ted that his chances would not be too good during a 
fire, but asked us point blank what we honestly thought the 
chances for fire were. Such a question indicates the atti
tude in the barracks, the fellows have resigned themselves 
to take less than they deserve. This is no place to expound 
on the theories of sociologists, but it seems to us that the 
college student should never be content to accept or endure 
conditions he can strive to improve.
The only argument of any validity presented in answer to 
last weeks story is that the barracks provide a cheap place 
to live. No one should be willing to stake his security on the 
premises that he is living under cheap rent. If the fellows on 
this campus want a dormitory where they can live and avoid 
the high cost of living, they should insist that the school pro
vide them with such quarters, but also demand decent living 
conditions.
It seems that the cause of this subservient acceptance 
as well as the varied opinions that grew out of last weeks 
controversy is the lack of certain students to hold a definite 
opinion in the line of opposition. When residents were ques
tioned on the quality of the barracks, they were quick to 
expose the bad points. However, when a few students of 
firm convictions became angered at the Tartans article; those 
fellows who had expressed hate of the barracks were afraid 
to oppose the leaders and hopped on the wagon. One would 
be led to believe that the average college student would 
be able to stand firm with his beliefs, but such doesnt seem 
to always be the case.
While all concerning the barracks has past, this phase 
of student reaction will still be with us; and probably im
pede the progress of other campus improvements. If, in the 
future, another student group plans to make a stand on an is
sue, it is going to find itself hampered by this trait i many of 
its members. Now is probably the best time for each of us 
to learn to spend a little more time in thought before we 
side on an issue, and then be able to stand firm on our 
beliefs regardless of the pressure or opinions propounded 
to us by those who can hold to their convictions.
Inquiring Reporter
F rosh Candidates
This weeks question asked by the inquiring 
photographer was as follows: Explain briefly why 
you are running for president of the freshman 
class and what you feel you can accomplish if 
you are elected.
James Boyd, freshman engineerI came to 
Tech, as most other freshmen, 
knowing practically nothing 
about the school and its activi
ties. Since we had few pep ral
lies in my home town, I was 
anxious to see what sort of in
terest the students, here at Car
negie, show in regard to their 
athletic events. I witnessed and 
participated in the schols first 
pep rally. I noticed a good many 
of the students cheering, etc., 
at the rally but on the Saturday that followed 
few bothered to assist che cheerleaders with the 
conventional noise making. I believe that all the 
students should support the cheerleaders. In this 
way we can promote the general spirit of the 
school in such a way that will better our own 
personal attitudes and our athletic teams.
For this reason I am attempting to win the 
presidency of the freshman class. It was with 
great pride I accepted the nomination for the of 
fice. So as to fulfill my friends expectations and 
my own wishes I will do ail in my power to 
better these present conditions. In this way, by 
cooperation among ourselves, we will also be able 
to install in our freshman group a system of class 
organization. By a strong system of organization 
it will be possible for us to work out any other 
such problems of the coming year.
Bill Minkler, freshman mechanical engineer 
The main reason I am running 
,./ -  i for president is because I believe 
*1 can give our class the kind of 
leadership it needs.
I am not running on a tick* 
et, as are several of my op
ponents, because I do not be
lieve in cramming something 
down the voters throat. Each of 
the two tickets running in this 
election are composed of mem
bers of the same fraternity, and
if either fraternity wins, then one fraternity will
control the class.
I believe that the tremendous energy and
spirit of our class should be put to work doing 
something constructivesome definite projectso 
that the school and other classes will respect us 
and be proud of us.
Earl Gose, freshman, chemical engineerTo 
tell why I am running for fresh
man president is rather difficult.
Perhaps it is because I feel great 
pride in being a member of the 
class of 1956 and would like to 
lead it through this school year 
or perhaps it is because I could 
do the job justice and could show 
Tech what class organization 
can and should do.
Whichever is the case, I 
propose, that if I am elected, I 
will make clags organization a tool and a servant 
for the whole freshman class, not just an honorary group for a few individuals. To do so I pro 
pose to set up a cabinet composed of students from 
all colleges and departments on campus. This cabinet will represent all the freshman and in that
way all the students will have a voice in their
class government.
But remember, when Wednesday rolls around, 
get out there and vote for the candidate of your 
choice; I hope that your choice will be me. Lets
give our officers a vote of confidence of the whole
class this year and show Tech a real class organi
zation.
Robert Di Biase, freshman, mechanical engineer
I am running for class presi
dent because I would like to take 
PI an active part in the uniting of 
our classin making it truly
outstanding. One way to do this 
is through the office of class
president. There are several 
things I intend to do if elected. 
We must revive the great tra
ditions that have been cast aside 
in recent years and pattern our
selves after the great classes that 
have gone before us. Class officers should no longer 
be mere individuals but rather active partici
pants in the affairs of the class. I want to share 
in the responsibilities of our class. Through the 
office of president I can do so. Above all, regard
less of the outcome, I want to be able to look 
back at the class of 1956 and honestly feel that 
we were the best class ever to graduate from Car
negie Tech."

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 22, 1952CARNEGIE TARTANPage 5
Roughriders Here For Homecoming
Speedy Backfield Will Pose 
Biggest Worry For Plaid
Seventeenth Meeting Seen As Opportunity For Tartans 
To Narrow 9-7 Margin Held By Case In 16 Game Series
By Dick Eppler
This Saturday the Tech gridders will meet, for the seventeenth 
time, the Case Institute of Technology Rough Riders in the an
nual homecoming game at Forbes field. The Tartans are well fav
ored to take the game as Case has defeated only Washington and 
Jefferson, and dropped its other encounter this year to Ohio Wes
leyan. Case, however, has a good all around game and can be ex
pected to give the Skibos a rough time of it all the way.
Cases leading ground gainer#---------------------------------------------------------
this year has been sophomore 
halfback John Nagy, who has 
gained 75 yards rushing and 62 
yards as a receiver for a grand 
total of 137 yards in two games. 
Right behind Nagy is fullback Ed 
Rate who has picked up 122 yards 
on the ground, primarily with his 
brute force in charging the op
position lines. Next in the ball 
carrying department is sophomore 
Dennis Pardee, by far the most 
elusive of the Case carriers, who 
has already accounted for 87 
yards and should bear close 
watching here this Saturday. In 
addition, backs Hank Venetta, 
Clark Street, and Dave Graiser 
will figure in the Rough Rider at
tack.
Defensive Standouts
On the Case line, center Elmer 
Kitinoja, guard Bob Burkhart, and 
defensive guard Lorenza Miller 
stand out. All are powerful, ag
gressive players who can be 
counted on to give Tech a great 
deal of trouble.
In the defensive backfield the 
standout is junior halfback John 
Janokaitis, who is one of Cases 
best all around players. His spe
cialty is pass interceptions, and 
he can be counted on to plague 
the Plaid passers all the way.
Overall, Case has a good team, 
one which will be anything but a 
pushover for the home team this 
Saturday. A victory over W & J, 
13-0 and a one point 8-7 loss to 
Ohio Wesleyan indicate the abil
ity to play a dogged game.
Case Leads 
In the sixteen game Case-CarHarriers Win At 
Bethany; Carman 
Sets New Record
Last Friday afternoon the Tar
tan harriers traveled to Bethany, 
West Virginia, and downed a 
strong Bison squad 21-34 on a four 
and three-quarter mile course for 
their ninth consecutive victory, in
cluding last seasons undefeated 
record.
Bob Carman, apparently fully 
recovered from a mid-season ankle 
injury, flashed over the trail to set 
a new record for the course in 
25:38. The home team managed to 
place men third and fourth and 
ninth.
Mai Gillies again followed Car
man, this time by 18 seconds. 
Freshman Ted Felk hit the first 
ten for the first time this season 
by running eighth behind Ceyle, 
Hayes, and Muller. The scoring in 
the meet was as follows:
Carman ...................................................25:38
Gillies ......................................................25:56
Beadle (B) .............................................26:22
Griffith (B> ...........................................26:36
Coyle .........................................................26:54
Hayes ..........................;.........................27:19
Muller .....................................................27:38
Felk ...................................................28:17
Kniftel (B) .............................................28:21
Olds ..........................................................28:45
Next week, as part of the Home
coming celebration, the Plaidhar
riers will meet the runners from 
Case in an attempt to extend their 
unbeaten streak to ten meets.
negie series the Rough Riders 
hold a 9-7 edge. However, Tech 
has won the last two encounters, 
36-27 in 1950 and 18-13 in 1951. 
Moreover, during World War II, 
when Tech had practically no 
team at all, that Case picked up 
the margin of its victories.
The two teams first met in 1907, 
after that in 1908 and then only 
intermittently until 1939. The. 
Tartans have met Case every year 
since then except for a two year 
break in 1944 and 45. It is also 
interesting to nte that, while 
the early games in the series were 
mostly decisive victories for the 
winner, the games in the last five 
years have, for the most part, 
bean very close contests.
Probable Lineup For 
Case Game On Saturday
Left end: Likely candidate for lit
tle All-American, senior TOM 
CRAIG is a two platoon man 
who also does most of the Tar
tan punting.
Left tackle: Dormont sophomore, 
JOHN WILLIAMSON, whose 
recent displays of ability have 
earned him a place on the start
ing team.
Left guard: Aggressive and alert, 
senior electrical JIM VODENICHAR hails from Sharon, Pa.
Center: Big CHUCK FUELLGRAF, 
senior from Butler, is the nu
cleus of the hard hitting offen
sive line for the Plaid.
Right guard: Greensburg com
muter, CLYDE STAHLE, for 
four years one of the strongest 
spots in the Tech line, both de
fensive and offensive.
Right tackle: JOE GALANDA, co
captain of this years squad, and 
a stalwart support in the forSophomore Metallurgist Cops 
Award In Record Competition
With only the Illinois-Minnesota upset fouling up his crystal
ball, sophomore metallurgist George Laidis wracked up 14 out of
15 correct answers in this weeks Tartan football contest.
This weeks games saw the highest number of entries since the
----------------------------------------------------------?initiation of the Thistle sponsored
award, with over thirty-five Techites trying their luck at predicting 
the final scores of football games 
over the nation.
Two others were tied with 
Liadis in number of correct
games, but they fell down on the
point difference to a greater extent 
than he did. Last weeks winner, 
Bill Boyce, and Bill Grega, frosh 
architecture student, had fourteen 
correct.
The female population is becom
ing increasingly more interested, 
also. Out of the eight people who 
were tied for second place in the 
contest with thirteen correct pre
dictions, two of these were girls, 
and there were a total of nine fe
male contestants.
The Illinois-Minnesota game 
was the only one that could be 
considered a real upset, judging 
from the spread of decisions 
among the entrants. The three 
next ranking in surprise nature 
were Pitt-Army, Notre DamePurdue, and Stanford-UCLA.
Dont miss this weeks contest 
on page seven of this issue.
ward wall.
Right end: DICK PAKOS, junior 
from Lorain, Ohio, has shown 
his heels to all but a few of the 
opposing safety men.
Quarterback: Homesteads EDDIE 
MILLER, a sophomore passer 
and field general, also plays an 
excellent game in the safety po
sition.
Right halfback: IRV SCHECTER, 
the other half of the Tartan co
captaincy, one of Techs best 
backfield men and a good pros
pect for district honors this year.
Left Halfback: Freshman sensa
tion from East McKeesport 
FIRIN BYRON EISAMAN has 
more than earned the starting 
halfback job with excellent line 
smashing ground plays.
Fullback: GALLOPIN GIL DISSEN, kick off and extra point 
maker, does a terrific job on the 
center line plunge plays.
Plaid Slams Gators, 19-0 
Hilltoppers Lack Offense
by Jim Gore ?
Last weekend our Torrid Tartans slammed Allegheny college 
19-0, at Meadville, for their third consecutive win this season. 
Showing a smooth passing attack combined with a smashing ground 
game, the Plaid tallied all their nineteen points in a fast scoring 
second quarter. ?---------------------------------------------------------
Starting off the quarter with a 
show of power, the clan marched 
to the Hilltoppers goal-line where 
lineman Joe Galanda fell on a 
Tech bobble in the end-zone for 
the teams first six pointer. Min
utes later Gil Dissen plunged over 
from the one to make the score 
12-0, but the conversion was not 
good few a second time. Shortly 
before the end of the half, the 
Scots drove 65 yards in three plaj's, 
with Guy Carricato heaving to 
Tom Craig, for the last major 
score. Carricato added the last 
point.
Air Attacks Hurt
With Miller and Carricato 
throwing, mainly to Tom Craig 
and Irv Schecter, the air attack 
really hurt the opposition. On the 
turf the backfield, led by Eisaman 
with 89 yards, Schecter with 43, 
and DeVries with 28, continually 
broke through the Gator line as 
Tech amassed a, total of 22 first 
downs. ' ,
Defensively the game was about 
even with each side recovering 
several enemy fumbles. Chuck 
Griffiths made the days only in
terception although both backfields knocked down a number of 
pass attempts.
Punt Exchanges
The Clan succeeded in moving 
to two first downs right after the 
kick-off but then the quarter 
turned into a Battle of Boots. 
After the first two punts Clyde 
Rickard fell on an Eisaman fum
ble to give the Blue and Gold a 
break, but they couldnt take ad
vantage of it and another ex
change of kicks followed with Al
legheny getting the better of it. 
One boot rolled out of bounds on 
the Plaid one yard line.
With the opposition deep into 
Scot territory Craig came through 
with a timely recovery and the 
Clan began to push. Carricatos 
jump pass to Craig was good for
19, Eisaman and Schecter hit for
13 and 5 respectively and the ball 
was on the Hilltoppers 34. How
ever the enemy line held and Tech 
lost the pigskin on downs. Don 
Skillen recovered a loose ball to 
halt the Blue and Golds last drive 
before quarter time.
The second quarter, however, 
brought a completely changed 
game with the Tartan offense get
ting its bearings and pouring on 
the power. Firin Byron Eisaman 
started things rolling -jyith a 41 
yard jaunt to the opponents 30, 
Schecter banged to the five but a 
fifteen yard clipping penalty put 
the Clan back on the twenty. 
Eisaman and Schecter again 
brought the ball back to the one 
from where Carricato tried to go 
over. He dropped the pigskin but 
alert Joe Galanda pounced on it 
and put Tech ahead 6-0.
Allegheny took the kick-off but 
were compelled to punt. The fight
ing Scots then got 10 on Eisamans 
run, 10 more on a Carricato to 
Craig pass, 16 on a aerial to 
Schecter, 17 on Dissens dash 
around left end and 4 on Eisa
mans plunge. From here Dissen 
crashed over in two plays to up 
the score to 12-0. The extra point 
attempt was again missed.
Griffiths Intercepts
Following DeVries kick-off the 
Blue and Gold drove to the Tar
tan 45 but Gfiffiths interception 
of a Chuck Waitz pass returned 
the ball to Carnegie hands. It was 
at this time that Tech put on its 
finest offensive show up to date, 
with the team going to the Gators 
goal-line in three plays. Carricato 
threw to Griffiths for 28, Miller 
pitched to Schecter for 9 more and 
the ball was perched on the Alle
gheny 24 yard line. Guy Carricato, 
who had passed well all after
noon, lofted one in the direction of 
the end-zone where Craig leaped 
high into the air and made an al
most unbelievable catch with 
three of the opposition clustered
around. Carricato split the up
rights for the nineteenth and last 
point. The half ended with the 
Gators in possession on their own 
39.
DeVries booted the ball deep 
into enemy territory to open the 
second half but Allegheny back
field star Dave McMahon ran it 
out to the 26 After pressing to the 
35 the opposition was forced to 
punt. Then the clan drove to the 
enemy 25, the big gainer being a 
31 yard Miller to Schecter aerial, 
but Chuck Rice dropped on a 
Miller bobble and the attack was 
halted.
Defense Stiffens
Following an exchange of punts 
the Hilltopper offense pushed the 
Tartans back to their own 18. 
Here the Plaid called for a time 
out to rearrange their defense. 
This proved to have been a smart 
move as the enemy lost the ball on 
downs.
With Blatt and Schecter carry
ing, the Skibos again began to 
roll, but Ted Levinson fell on 
Blatts miscue. The quarter ended 
with Ed Ziegenfuss regaining pos
session for the clan by diving on a 
Reed fumble.
At the beginning of the fourth 
period Tech was again moving 
with Tom Warner doing the heavy 
work. However it seemed as if 
fumbleitis was spreading for Miller 
miscued going back to pass and 
the Hilltoppers had their big 
chance.
Close Call
McMahon ran to the 14 for a 
first down but the ever strength
ening Tech defense put on the 
pressure and the enemy could 
travel no farther than the 7. The 
Tartans kicked to relieve the 
pressure but the boot only went 
to the 35. The Blue and Gold 
drove to the 14 but the fighting de
fensive unit held fast and the 
Scots regained the ball with only 
a few minutes remaining.
Miller started feeding the pig
skin to frosh DeVries and Browa 
who moved the ball to the Alle
gheny 44. Pakos grabbed a Milter 
aerial for 18 yards but the clock 
ran out before the ball could b 
put in play again.
Photo by Wolfe
Tartan cheerleaders kneel on the goal line in a feverish 
prayer for more . . . more . . . more! Spirit of this nature has 
been a big factor in helping the Plaid gridders over some oi 
the rough spots in piling up their present 3-1 record. The game 
last Saturday, at Meadville, saw the Tartans drub the 'Gator* 
19-0.

---------------------------------------------------

Parc 6CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, October 22, 1952
Intramural Roundup
Phi Kaps Rout Sigma Nu 
ATO, Roopsips End In Tie
Phi Kaps Down Sigma Nu
In Kilties league play the Phi Kap A downed Sigma Nu A 
in one of the feature games of the week. Sparked offensively by 
the passing of Tony Ginetti and the receiving of Vilsach and Selisky and led defensively by Sebulsky, the PKs recorded their 
third win against one defeat. SN scored first on a long run by 
Holthaus, but PK bounced back to tally twice, both TDs by Vil
sach on passes from Ginetti, to lead at half tjjne, 12-7. The second I
half was evenly played with PK*----------------------------------------------------------
scoring in the final seconds of 
play. The coolness and steadiness 
displayed by Phi Kappa was the 
edge that gave them the victory,
17-9, and tightened the Kiltie 
league standings considerably.
25-21 Thriller 
The Sigma Nus rolled back 
from the defeat at the hands of 
Phi Kappa to edge the Tau Delts 
in one of the best played games 
of the season. Led by Jim Holt
haus and George Bushey, the 
SN's took a first quarter lead, 6-2, 
but the Tau Delts, following Don 
Weavers lead, came back strong 
in the second quarter to score 
twice and take a 13-7 halftime 
margin. The third quarter was 
played on even terms, each team 
scoring once. In the final quarter 
the strong SN defense held the 
TDPs checkmated while their of
fense scored the winning touch
downs. The win for Sigma Nu has 
thrown the Kiltie league race into 
a three way tie for first place 
laurels among Sigmu Nu, Tau 
Delta Phi, and Phi Kappa.
Roopsips Share Lead 
Action in the Scottie league saw 
the Roopsips gain a first place tie 
with ATO by whipping the Sigma 
Nu B squad, 13-3. ATO took 
over the Phi Kappa" B, and then 
in an attempt to regain their first 
place rating in IM competition, 
unmercifully beat Beta Sigma 
Rho B\ 40-5. Phi Kappa B, 
following in the footsteps of Phi 
Kappa A, defeated Sigma Nu 
by a 27-3 markup to gain a
Cameron Choir
All persons having: folders 
and sheet music belonging to 
the Cameron choir are requested 
to please return same to the 
Dean of Students office as soon 
as possible.
Lets Go, Ginetti 
Phi Kaps Tony Ginetti takes over in a hard-hitting ground run 
in their exciting victory over Sigma Nu A. The Phi Kaps dropped 
the Sigma Nus into a three-way tie for Kiltie league honors by 
downing them 17-9.
Standings 
TARTAN LEAGUE
Newman
DU .........
BSR A 
Emanon . 
SAE ___
.40 
.40 
.32
B
BKILTIE LEAGUE
.03
PK A 
TDP ....
SN ____
Obelisks
Greatest
.31 
.31 
.31 .13 .04
SKIBO LEAGUE
.30 .21 .22 .13
third place tie with BSR 
Emanon Romps 
Emanon won its first game in 
Tartan league play last week by 
easily trouncing the Kappa Sigs,
23-1. Alert defensive play by 
Emanon led to four pass inter
ceptions that kept the KS squad 
on the defensive most of the play
ing time in the game.
ZTmanons victory schemes were 
short lived, however, as Sigma
Alpha rolled them over the coals feating Kappa Sigma by the 
for a 20-0 beating in their second overwhelming score of 31-8. Folgame last week. lowing these victories, DU went
The Newman club, sparked by on to trounce Emanon. As always 
Ryans passing and Murphys re! the sparkling Robbins to OReilley 
ceptions stopped Beta Sigma Rho passing combination combined 
A, 18-1. The DUs kept pace i with the excellent support of
DTD ................................................
TX .....................................................BTP ..................................................
PKA ..................................................
ME.s ...............................................................13
SCOTTIE LEAGUE
Roopsips .................................................. 31
ATO ...............................................................31
BSR B ........................................................22
PK B ........................................................22
SN "B ........................................................04
with the Newman club by first 
downing SAE, 40-8, and then deIntramural 
FR Ritins
Sports Editor Gives 
Complete IM Rankings
This weeks intramural ratings 
have again been determined by 
Frank Fegley, using a process 
which contains methods known 
only to the masters of the sports 
world. The top men have shifted 
this week with Alpha Tau Omega 
heading the list of the select.
1. Alpl>a Tau Omega ..........................93.6
2. Delta Upsilon .....................................91.7
3. Newman Club ...................................90.1
4. Figma Nu A ................................ 89.6
5 Phi Kappa "A ..................................88.9
6. Tau Drlta Phi ...................................7.9
7. Theta Xi ............................................. 86.9
8. Delta Ten Delta ...............................85.6
9. Beta Sigma Rho A ................... 82.3
10. Sigma Alpha Epsilon ...........*. .79.8
It. Beta Theta Pi ..................'............77.4
12. *i!echrrical Engineer........................77.3
13. Obelisks .............................................'..75.1
14 Pi Kcppa Alpha ............................74/4
15. i rwnon ................................................74.4
lfi. Greatest .................................................74.3
17 Roop ip .................................................73 4
13. Kappa Sigma ...................................71.4
10. Beta Sigma Rho B" ..................70.1
2 Sipn ; Nu ,B ...................................691
21. Phi Kappa B" ...................................7.0
their speedy offense brought the 
DUs a 22-8 victory. With only 
one game remaining in the league 
play with the Newman club for 
opposition, the DU squads per
formance foretells a place in the 
all-school finals.
Beta Sigma Rho defeated Kap
pa Sig sextet in a hard-fought 
game by a close 30-25 score.
Rowley Is 
Favored In 
Tennis Play
Alexander To Be Dark 
Horse; Badminton To 
Begin Schedule Soon
By Dick Goss 
Intramural tennis play will en
ter the quarter finals this week 
with the semi-finals and finals to 
be played in the next two weeks. 
Rowley holds down the favorite 
spot to win the title. He may have 
trouble with Jack Alexander, a 
darkhorse in the tournament who 
has a booming serve. Last weeks 
results" showed Clark Garrecht 
eliminating Jim Shriver, 6-1, 6-0, 
and William Smith also cinching a 
spot in the quarter finals by de
feating Jim Reavis.
New Champ Sure 
Another racket sport just being 
organized is badminton. A new 
champ will be crowned this year 
since Don Braun, last years victor 
has graduated. Both single and 
doubles tournaments will be played 
in this sport starting within the 
next few days.
IM Football Ends 
With HC Playoffs
Semifinals Scheduled for Friday 
Championship Decision Saturday
By Frank Fegley
The intramural football season will draw to a close this Satur
day with the completion of the championship game to be held at 
10:00 a.m. on the FPHA field.
The semi-finals will be held on Friday afternoon bringing to
gether the respective champions of the Scottie, Skibo, Kiltie, and 
Tartan Leagues.
ATO No. 1
Alpha Tau Omega, number one in this weeks TARTAN rat
ings, wound up in a first place tie with the Roopsips in regular 
season play, both posting identical 3 and 1 records, and must meet 
to decide the Scottie League championship. The Roopsips hold 
the only decision over the ATOs, a 1-8 forfeit, but will be a 
definite underdog in an actual encounter.
Skibo League
The Skibo league, where the Delts (3-0) meet Theta Xi (2-1), 
may see last years champion, Delta Tau Delta, take home theid 
divisional laurels by whipping TX, but should Theta Xi prevail, 
these two team will have to meet again in a play off.
Three-way Tie
When Sigma Nu set back Tau Delta Phi, 25-21, in a thriller last 
Thursday, a three-way tie was created in the Kiltie league, both 
these teams and Phi Kappa having three wins and one less. This 
trio will stage an elimination tournament to decide the league cham
pion. An added attraction in these playoff games will be the battle 
between Jim Holthaus, SN, Don Weaver, TDP, and Tony Ginetti, 
PK, for all-intramural quarterback and, possibly, most valuable 
player honors.
Unbeaten Teams
The only unbeaten teams, Delta Upsilon and Newman club, clash 
on Monday with the winner getting the Tartan league cup. This 
should be a top flight game, pitting the second and third rated 
team together. Delta Upsilon is a two point favorite.
Playoff Preview
I look for Alpha Tau Omega to cop the Scottie league, Theta Xi 
the Skibo league, Sigma Nu the Kiltie league, and Delta Upsilon the 
Tartan league with Delta Upsilon emerging all-school champion.
The championship trophy will be presented to the winning team 
at the Homecoming dance in the gym Saturday night.
Patronize Tartan Advertisers
Save Up To 50%Purchase Student Tickets
DELUXE SERIESSEASON 7952-'53STRIA MOSQUE
Monday, Nov. 10 
PAUL WHITEMAN
HIS ORCHESTRA and SOLOISTS
Wed., Jan. 28
BOSTON POPS" ORCH.
ARTHUR FIEDLER, Conductor
Thursday, Dec. 4
Bernard Shaws Fabulous
DON JUAN IN HELL
Starring In Person Chas Boyer. CKas. Laughton. Cedric Hardwicke, 
Agnes Moorehead
Saturday, Feb. 14
VICTOR BORGE
(IN PERSON)
Tuesday, January 13
Stephen Vincent Bsnets
JOHN BROWNS BODY
Starring m Person Tyrone Power, 
Ravmond Massey, Judith Anderson
Saturday, March 7 
ROBT. SHAW CHORALE 
and ORCHESTRA
ROBERT SHAW, Conductor
Special Student Rate Sale now on at "May Beegle" Concert*,"
552 UNION TRUST BUILDING
Student Rates for Six Events$3.90, $5.85, $7.80, $9.87.Including All Tax). All Seats Reserved
Only Two Weeks Left to Get Your Student Tickets
The Metal Warehouse99
Aluminum 
Brass 
Bronze 
Copper 
Monel 
Nickel 
Inconel 
Monel Clad 
Nickel Clad 
Inconel Clad 
Rosslyn Metal. 
Stainless Steel 
Primary Nickel 
Ferro Alloys
Non-Corrosive Fastenings 
and Accessories
Fittings and Valves
Safety Equipment
Seamless Steel Tubing
Welded Steel Tubing
Boiler Tubes
Refrigeration and
Air Conditioning Supplies
Welding Supplies
Welding Machines
Welding Wire
Complot* stocks carried in all five warehouses
WILLIAMS & COMPANY, Inc.
General Office and Main Warehouse 
901 Pennsylvania Ave., Pgh. 33 CEdar 1-8600
Cleveland - Cincinnati - Columbus - Toledo

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 22, 1952CARNEGIE TARTANPage 1
Take 68 Street Car, Get Off at End of High
NEW ADDRESS
108 East 8th AvenueHomestead
Basketball Drills Commence;
TARTAN FOOTBALL CONTEST
For Games on October 25, 1952
TeamScoreTeamScore
Shortages In Experience
Terrific Freshman Turnout Hailed As Finest Material
To Arrive On Campus Since De-Emphasis Began In 1939
By Ed Feigenbaum
When the sound of football signals lea ves the air, and pigskins no longer fly up and 
down the length of Forbes field, basketball will once again take its place as Techs topwinter month sport.
Tartan rooters can expect much in the way of exciting contests in the 52-53 season
for Carnegie Tech has altered its*---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
usual class B schedule to include
CARNEGIE TECH
Pittsburgh
Penn State
Alabama
Army
Baylor
California
Princeton
Georgia Tech
Ohio StateBoston University
Maryland
Notre Dame
Oklahoma
Wisconsin
Case Tech'West Virginia
Michigan State
Mississippi State
Columbia
Texas A&M
Southern California
Cornell
Vanderbilt
Iowa
Lehigh
LSU
North Carolina 
Kansas State 
UCLA
such strong opposition as Duquesne and Youngstown.
Team Weaker
The basketball team is expect
ed to be much weaker than last 
years squad, which compiled a 
commendable 13-9 season record. 
The loss of co-captains Hillary 
(6' 4") Holste and Tom Beck 
along with A1 Cerrito and Bob 
Duffus, all seasoned court men, 
leaves Coach Mel Cratsley with 
a contingent composed of only 
four upperclassmen. He will then 
have to work v/ith >a relatively 
inexperienced squad and the 
son record is likely to reflect 
problein. The seniors, Kaye 
Thompson, Don Hay, and Tom 
Craig, and junior Bill Farbacker 
will have to carry the brunt of 
the load, with Underclassmen fill
ing out the roster. Sophomores 
slated for varsity spots include 
Nobie Ackerman, Phil Jeske, Bill 
Dosey, Bill Hyams, Jim Miller, 
and John Daniels.
It is expected that the begin
ning of official practice sessions 
will see a large number oi fresh
man competing foi; positions on 
the Freshman team, and the word 
now is that these boys are po
tentially the finest basketball ma
terial seen here since Carnegie 
Tech de-emphasized sports 
around 1940. It should be inter
esting to watch the athletic pro
gress of such aspiring basketball 
stars as Chuck Bernath, Jim Boyd, 
Jerry Bracken, Dick Fieler, Ralph 
Mocker, Walt McGinnes, Jack 
Recker, George Wilkinson, and 
Dino Cavino.
14 Man Squad
The varsity will consist of four
teen men as will the freshman 
team, although it is almost cer
tain that some freshmen will be 
called to varsity duty. The staff, 
in addition to Coach Cratsley, in
cludes Assistant Coach Moe Fassinger and Freshman Coach Mike 
Theodore.
Because of the inexperience of 
the team and the added burden 
of a harder schedule, the pros
pects for a big basketball season 
do not look bright now. Tech, 
however, has the good fortune of 
possessing a fine home schedule 
which will include contests with 
Pitt, Duquesne, Washington & Jef
ferson, and Westminster. So it 
looks as if plenty of good basket
ball will be in the offing far 
Carnegie Tech students this win
ter, and its up to all of us tc 
voice our approval by giving our 
sideline-support to the Tartan 
team.
NAME ......................................................DEPT..CLASS
VARSITY RATINGS
Tartan Opponents
1. Lehigh 
t. Case
5. California STC 
4. Carnegie Tech
6. Washington A Jefferson 
C. Johns Hopkins
7. Allegheny
8. Bethany
West Penn Ratings
1. Pittsburgh
2. Penn State 
S. Clarion STC
4. California STC
5. Carnegie Tech 
f. Waynesburg
7. Indiana STC
S. St. Vincent
9. Westminster
10. Slippery Rock
11. Washington A Jefferson
12. Edinboro
15. Geneva
14. Thiel
18. Allegheny
16. Grove City
17. St. Francis
Little Man On Campusby BiblerPITTSBURGH ADDRESS
A 1953 Thistle yearbook will be awarded to the winner of the 
TARTANS weekly football contest.
Read the contest rules below and fill in and deposit this coupon 
in the intra-school mail box, addressed to the TARTAN. All coupons 
must be entered by midnight Friday to be eligible for the following 
days games.
Contest Rules
1. Only CIT students will be eligible to compete.2. Each contestant will predict not only the winner, but also the final score
of the game. Entries will be judged on the number of correct decisions; in case
of ties, entries will be judged on the correctness of the scopes.
3. All entries must be sent to the**Tartan through intra-school mail by mid
night Friday of the contest week to be eligible for consideration.4. Each student may submit only one entry. Tf more than one entry is sub
mitted by a student, he or she will be disqualified.5. Entries will be judged by the Tartan sports staff and the winners will be 
announced in the issue following the contest. Decision of the judges is final.6. Winner of each weeks contest .will receive a 1953 Thistle subscription, re
deemable at the time of publication
FRANK MENS WEAR
5816 Forbes Street Squirrel Hill
Open Tuesday and Saturday Evenings
Dont worryth coach knows wot hes doin! Height may prove 
to be a disadvantage.
HOMESTEAD HOBBY SHOP
Complete Line of All Model Supplies
Level Bridge
Richard Karp, General Dir.Armando Agrnini, Artistic Dir.
With
METROPOLITAN OPERA STARSSYRIA MOSQUE
5 THURS. and 5 SAT. EVENINGS at 8:15 P. M.
NOV. 20 & 
22, 1952MANON
Bidu Sayao Eugene Conley Ralph Herbert
JAN. 22 & 
24, 1953CARMEN
Mary M. Briney Brenda Lewis WalterCassel
FEB. 19 & 
21, 1953TOSCA
Dorothy Kirs.ten David Poleri Cesare Bardelli
MARCH 19 
& 21, 1953OTELLO
Mario del Monaco Ellen Faull Robert Weede
APRIL 23 
& 25, 1953MADAM BUTTERFLY
Irma Gonzalez William Horne
STUDENT SALE FOR ABOVE OPERAS
Will be held at the Carnegie Music Dept. October 30 
and 31, beginning at 10:00 A. M. There will be STUDENT 
TICKETS for Thursday and Saturday evenings. Prices 
are as follows for 5 OPERAS: $5.00, $6.00, $8.00, $9.00.
Hurry! Only A Two Day Sale
Student prices are at greatly reduced rates over the 
general public.
Arrow Underwear 
Cdnt be beat for comfort
Arrow Shorts 1.45 up
Arrow Undershirt* 1.00 up
ARROW
----SHIRTS  TICS  UNDtRWEAR  HANDKSRCHIIFS  SPORTS SHIRTS.
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St Oakland
AUFHAMMER & EVANS. Inc.
ROY V. BEESE
6100 Penn Avenue East Liberty, Pa.
DISTINCTIVE HABERDASHERY

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 8CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, October 22, 1952
SUITS  DRESSES  GOWNS
 :
The
Wardrobe
Harriette A. Stephenson 
190 N. Craig Street, Pittsburgh 13, Penna.
SC 1-1813
IfoorCkoe ro;-Teoerr w
Verstil jerkin  solid colour 
Calisheen front, matches 
jacket shirts  reverses to 
rayon check. All <95 
worsted knit back. 0 
Sizes: S, M, L.
;khoWad wbm Washable rich 
rayon-acetate in attractive 
check pattern in colors to 
match jerkin and jacket. Solid 
color knit trim, t </OC 
Sites: S, M, ML, L. ,
by the Three Blind Mice
CAVE MAN TACTICS . . . Veering from the usual inquiry of name 
and phone number (as is the policy with Tech men) the happy 
Pitt boy raiders subjected the girls they met with amorous embraces while the feminine cries of, This is not really necessary; we are outnumbered here! rang through the bellows of, Poor Irish! What a wonderful way to get bruised; some gals have all the luck!!
THROUGH THE LOOKING 
GLASS . . . Coeds at Alabama blush when they look at a gold fish bowl. They know how it feels to live in one. A chivalrous Southern gent hinted that all was not as it 
should be with bathroom windows in the new dorms. The panes are designed so a girl taking a bath can see out but outsiders cant look in. It seems the windows had been installed backwardsby mistake.
EMILY POST . . . Students at PCW will be given booklets on 
etiquette promised to be the last word on questions such as: when 
and where blue jeans are worn, what campus affairs call for a hat and gloves, dining room decorum, 
and numerous other questions. It is the hope of the school that all students will carefully read the booklet and abide by the rules.
FRATERNITY LULLABY . . . 
The night of the Pitt Escapade a fraternity from the same school (?) treated Morewood Gardens with a serenade. Their mourning 
cry of, Poor Irish! now sounded similar to Poor Army! suggesting the celebration of a double victory. The serenade was 
drowned out by a lively debate from window to window deciding the favoriteIrish or Pitt. Never at a loss in such a situation, the industrious frat led the girls in songdividing the towers into um pah pahs, um boop boops, and 
the melody. The stirring program climaxed with the sounding of taps.
OSCULATORS . . . Tis done beneath the mistletoe, Tis done 
beneath the rose; But the proper place to kiss you know, is just be
neath the nose.
Newman Club 
Plans Program
Plans are completed for the 
Newman clubs educational pro
gram .which consists of three dif
ferent groups meeting weekly. 
The activities include the chaplains  discussions every Tuesday 
noon, the open-forum discussions 
on Thursday evenings, and the leadership and Catholic action study group meeting Monday afternoons.
The most popular group is the series of lectures by chaplain Fa| ther Berkmyre on Catholic beliefs 
i and problems followed by a gen! eral question and answer period.These are held in EH 1112 from j 12:30 p.m. until 1:20 p.m. on Tues; days. On Thursday evening in 
| Carnegie Union from 7:00 p.m. unI til 9:00 p.m. outstanding Catho! lie authorities will lead informal ! discussions on different topics of j current interest, such as psychology, marriage, education, science, 
sociology, etc. The first such topic, 
is being conducted by Rev. Friel, professor of philosophy at Mt. 
Mercy college; it is an introduc
tion to philosophy for university 
students, and will continue through October 30.
The leadership and Catholic ac
tion study group which meets 
Monday afternoons at 4:30 p.m. is a new experiment modeled after 
the very successful Carrolltonian groups in California; through participation in entertaining and 
stimulating meetings, remarkable 
progress in speaking ability and knowledge of Catholic principles is possible. The starting date and 
location of these meetings will be posted on the Newman club bulle
tin board in Skibo.
Student Council Sets 
Blood Drive For Dec. 1
It was announced last Wednesday in Student Council meeting 
that Council will .sponsor a blood drive in December 1. The me
chanics or the drive will be taken care of by the sophomore class.
Under committee reports, publications chairman Dick Durstine 
brought to the attention of SC#-------------------------------------:---------that the Tartan was $160 in the 
red after its first four issues. He 
said that it is possible to make the paper financially firm if beer ads were considered permissible advertising. The administration has put the skids to this project, however.
Miss Campus Chest
Chairman of tne special committee Larry Glavin discussed the possibility of having each of the seven sororities on campus elect their own queen to take the name of a national charity organization, such as Miss Red Cross, etc. The queen who solicits the most funds for her organization would be crowned Miss Campus Chest. Council decided, however, that the work involved in carrying through 
this idea is out of proportion to the value of the expected results.
The chapel committee report included the possibility of Eisenhower and Stevenson speaking at Tech on different dates to students of Pitt, PCW, Duquesne, and Car
negie sometime before the presidential election. Whether this
proves possible or not, representatives of the political parties will speak in assembly on Tuesday, October 28, at 11:30 a.m.
Constitution Approved WRCTs constitution was approved by SC. The stations previous charter allowed the organizations president to appoint officers as he saw fit. Consequently the system was unfair to many 
students who were capable but not known to the chief executive. The new constitution states that officers will be selected by all students who work on the station.Council then approved the appointment of Dick Woods as chairman of the newly formed Student Council publicity committee.
Classes Survive Duane Quintals motion to abolish sophomore and junior class officers was defeated this week after a detailed discussion. The maCitcom, an organization 
made up of Tech commuters, 
is sponsoring the pep rally be
fore the Homecoming game 
with^Case. The rally will start 
at 7:15 p.m. FridayNm the Fine 
Arts lawn and proceed to 
Skibo bowl. An added attrac
tion will be the annual pledge 
cheer contest.
Following the rally, Citcom 
will hold a free record dance 
in Thistle hall. Everyone is 
invited and dress informal.
jority felt that such a move would 
be detrimental to the presently 
booming frosh class spirit.
Bill Stewart, head of the plans 
and programs committee told 
Council that he had sent to Dr. D. 
F. Miner a resolution of SC advo
cating the abolition of classes Fri
day afternoon prior to Homecom
ing. The resolution is expected to 
carry some weight, since it shows 
essentially the will of the student 
body, and received the unanimous support of Council at the last meeting.
wear emaloneor
Stray Greeks
Stray sorority Greeks on campus desiring to attend the annual Panhellenic Dance Novem
ber 8 at the Schenley Hotel are requested to pick up invitations in Dean Schaeffers office.
wear em in sets
m
varsity 4
Heres the bright, 
new matching 
ensemble you can 
wear in a pleasing 
variety of combina
tions. Beautifully 
tailored and styled, 
by Revere.
wlnaheoWashable rayonacetate sheen gabardine in 
Skipper, Forest or Brown to 
match jerkin and jacket. 
Checked knit insert in colly 
and pockets. > CQ5
Sizes: S, M, ML, L. _ ^0
IfoorCkof Reversible jacket. 
One side, skipper, dark green, 
or brown rayon acetate Calisheen  water repellent, spot 
resistant  with pick-stitched 
flap pockets. Other side, navy, 
green or brown rayon in attrac
tive checks. Full tip front. 
Comfortably snug <1 COO elastic waist. IJ
Play Tickets
Tickets for the play, Ring Around the Moon, will be dis
tributed to students on Tuesday, October 21, from 4 p.m. to
5 p.m. in room 100 in the Fine Arts building. A play ticket will 
be presented with each student identification card presented with the maximum of two per 
person.
WIe iknasr nahetaaC SadS
The oriental sounding gong that used to echo through Morewood 
Gardens at closing time has been turned over to the Kiltie Band. 
It will probably be heard at future football games.

---------------------------------------------------

TIME SHOP
3623 FIFTH AVE. - SC 1-7077
(Fifth Avenue at Atwood St.)
Wednesday, October 22, 1952CARNEGIE TARTANPage t
Alchemist Indisposed At Present; 
Guglielmo Narrates Woeful Tale
by John J. John as told to R. Durstine
The opinions expressed in this column do not necessarily, but 
usually, express the sentiments of the editors of the Tartan.
Due to circumstances far beyond my control, it will be impossi
ble for me to present my usual objective commentary on life at 
Carnegie Tech this week.
The recent barbarian invasion from the west, inspired by a 
resounding defeat of some tribe ? 
known as the Irish, has made it necessary for me to devote an inordinate amount of time to outside affairs for the next few days, making necessary a neglect of my literary duties.
Brother Takes Over In short I have been chosen as part of a committee to investigate conditions at the nearby Oakland Home for Retarded Children and to look into the possibility of constructing a fence between there and here so that the Gothic hordes from that area will not again sweep down upon our tranquil principality.
I therefore leave you, turning the remainder of this column over to my younger brother Guglielmo, who has hinted to me that he has a few thought* to transmit to the citizenry of Carnegie.
Guglielmo Speaks:
I write this on the eve of what you callous veterans of this institution call Freshman day. Here in McBoss hall things are quiet, most of the class of 1956 (or therei abouts) being tucked safely in their beds in preparation for the gruelling hours ahead, particularly the athletic contest in the afternoon.
Due to an unfortunate twist offate, however, I will be unable to play tomorrow. Although I was a star player for the Aleister Crowley fan club skiboball team in the central Io.wa league for three years while in high school, \ I will not be seen on the playing ground tomorrow. I have developed a calcium growth in my left elbow and must have it removed before it becomes serious.' The doctors say I will be out for the rest of the season.
Not FPHA And so I am not in bed early; I have no reason to be. Rather I sit in my dingy walled room here, mourning that the place is completely devoid of life (I am not one of those lucky souls who have 
managed to secure a room in the FPHA units) and reminiscing on
Your I.D. CARD Means
1 EO/L On JewelryEHAY sWW Watch Repairs
the days gone bythe days of the 
dink.
By the time this is published, 
we will know whether dinks will 
be necessary for another week or 
not. But at the time of writing the entire world is being held in suspense. It seems to be surviving quite well nonetheless.
Dont Listen 
Returning to thoughts of things gone by, I came to Carnegie Tech filled with pride at the thought of being part of a truly scientific community, at having at last reached the ultimate in rational thought and procedure. I was ready and willing to be a slave of the Carnegie plan.
Then I met and shook hands with a host of fraternity men, who were the first to tell me about the existence of dinks. You dont have to wear the foolish things, was the comforting advice of experience. Then I registered, was sold a dink and told to wear it or else. Again I talked with the fraternity men. Dont listen to them, they said.
Policy Changed Following this, I became a pledge, ready to partake of all the joys of fraternal life. But my first
order from the pledgemaster was Wear it or else. Somewhere along the line, policy had been reversed.
So I wore it, for a while at least. Then I noticed a number of my classmates without their little hats. No harm came to them. They went to and from class like law abiding citizens. Observing no police action aimed at them, I decided to leave my hat on my desk.On the next day, I was ap
proached by a red-cheeked upperclassman, who was furious at 
my state of bareheadedness. After some ranting on the subject, he presented me with a broom and let me clean the one place (the one outdoors and public place, at any rate) where I am not allowed to tread, the senior walk. While sweeping, I trod, hence breaking another rule.
Thoroughly ConfusedHaving learned my lesson, I resolved to wear my dink henceforth and forevermore. That is, I so resolved until one day last week one of the ROTC dignitaries, clad in solemn brown, after saying assorted unnice things about me and the world in general, re
quested the removal of my dink, and its replacement with an ugly sepia chapeau which seems to be standard equipment one day per week.And now I sit here, dinkless, on the edge of my hard bed, wondering if after tomorrow I will be told to wear my little grey and plaid headpiece, or not to wear it, and if so by whom.
Campus Political Rally
In this year more than any other, the election of the right 
man for the presidency of the United States is important. Our 
whole future, our ability to preserve peace or our inability to 
avoid involvement in war may depend upon the outcome of the 
election on November 4.
There are many candidates who want to do the job for you. 
Do you really know what their ideas are? Do you reall know 
why you favor one candidate over the other? Can your convic
tions really stand up against the convictions of your opponent? 
And more than that are they strong enough to convert your 
opponent?
Come to the political forum and mock election on Tuesday, 
October 28, at 11:30 a.m. in Thistle hall. Three leading party 
spokesmen representing the Democrat, Republican, and Pro
gressive parties will present their official platforms. After that 
the meeting will be open for discussion and argument, and you 
will have a chance to present and defend your beliefs and to 
counteract those of your opponents.
Federal Government Class.
Bulletin Board
Alpha Phi aOUGN Auction 
aXLNVRF $160 For Chest
Alpha Phi Omega, the service 
fraternity, gave Campus Chest a 
head start with $160the proceeds from an auction sale held last TuesdayT The goods auction
ed off were articles left unclaimed 
at the lost and found office during 
the last five years.
At 11:30 a.m. Tuesday, a crowd 
gathered in front of Fine Arts to examine the articles. A crisis arose when the professional auctioneer 
who was to sell failed to arrive. 
APO President Bill Balentine took over in the emergency and sold all 
the sliderules, pens, scarfs, etc. 
It was the first experience he had ever had in auctioneering.
Tech Dramat Appears 
On Student Radio Program
Mr. Erhard Reis of Germany, 
a drama student at Carnegie Institue of Technology, will partic
ipate in the inaugural of a new 
series of radio programs entitled 
Pitsburgh Through the LookingGlass. Each Sunday at 2:15 p.m., 
station WPGH will interview for
eign visitors on their impression* 
of Pittsburgh and vicinity.
The programs are arranged by the Foreign Policy Association 
committee on foreign students and are moderated by Professor William H. E. Johnson of Carnegie Tech, chairman of this committee.Be Sure You Get the Deal You Deserve 
^ f9we the sovmos that ^ CheVnll>t offer* 2- r"0t our urifo* .,Naturally v H KS
-*crhfor r.
SEE WHAT YOU GAIN 
WITH THESE EXCLUSIVE 
CHEVROLET FEATURES
More Powerful Valve-in-Head Engine 
with PowergHde Automatic Transmis
sion (optional at extra cost)  Body by 
Fisher  Centerpoise Power  Safety
Plate Glass all around, with E-Z-Eye 
plate glass (optional at extra cost)  
Largest Brakes in its field  Unitized 
Knee-Action Ride.
SEE WHAT 
YOU SAVE 
WITH THELowest-Priced Line in its Field!
SUXQUR CHEVROLET DEALER FOR ALL YOUR AUTOMOTIVE NEEDSI
Conveniently listed voder "Automobiles in your local classified telephone directory

---------------------------------------------------

Paffe 10CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, October 22, 1952
WRCT Is Revamped 
New Officers Elected
Campus radio station WRCT held a reorganizational meeting 
last. Saturday, following Student Council's ratification of the new 
station constitution.
The purpose of the meeting was to elect members to the execuj
Have News ?
Any student or organization 
desiring an article or letter in 
the Tartan should either con
tact a reporter, stop at the of
fice on Friday evening, or 
drop the release in the intra
school mailbox. -
tive committee as provided for in 
the new charter. Another action 
taken at the meeting was the ac
ceptance of more than 50 members 
who attended the meeting for the 
first time as official members 
which they were not before the 
adoption of the new constitution.
The change in administrative 
procedure was by no means sur
prising to station members, since 
considerations for a new consti
tution had been in the making 
since the beginning of the school 
year.
The following were elected to 
serve on the executive board of 
the station: John Higginbotham, 
station manager; Clyde Rohland, 
business manager; Roger Evans, 
chief of engineering; James Boyden. chief announcer; James La
cey III, program manager; Stan 
Winitzky, advertising manager; 
Edward Weber, publicity manager, 
Edward Bigelow, recording man
ager; and Kenneth Hertz, special 
program manager.
The radio Carnegie Tech sched
ule for the coming week appears 
below.
Tartan Reporter Makes Find; 
Parking Lot Amazing Place
by Bill Smith
Tech is blest with many virtues, not the least of which is variety. | 
In one area there is great varietythe parking area. Nestled snugly j 
in the 137 spaces of the Forbes street lot are usually 160 cars of | 
various sizes, models, makes, and states of disrepair. Mine is among I
them. ?--------1 -------  ---;: ------------  I
Since I must pass almost every infra-red searchlight, silver-plate j
WRCT
Schedule
Tuesday October 21
6:00On the Air 
6:05Luckies News Cast 
6:15Linger Awhile 
7:00Abide with Me 
7:30Proudly We Hail 
8:00The Brown Study Hour 
9:00News and Sports Cast 
9:15Lacey 
10:00Night Train 
11:15Final Edition 
11:30OT the Air
Wednesday, October 22
6:00On the Air 6:05Luckies News Cast 
6:15Record Rendezvous 
8:00Music for Studying 
8:30Folk Music Time 
9:00The Phi Mu Alpha Hour 
10:00News, Sports, and Music 
10:15Musical Miscellany 
11:15Final Edition 
11:30Off the Air
Thursday. October 23
6:00On the Air
6:05Luckies News Cast
6:15Music
6:30Marys Music Hall 
7:00The WRCT Talent Review 
8:00-=Hie Dixie Belles 
8:30Ad Libbers Show 
9:00Sports and Music 
S:15Discs with Ed 
9:30-Fred Wearing Hour 
10:C0Lacey 10:45Musical Poetry 
11:15Final Edition 
11:30Sign Off
Friday, October 24
6:00On the Air 
6:05Luckies News Cast 
6:15Chin and Spin 7:00Mu sic Extraordinary 
8:30Science Fiction Adventures 
9:15Dixieland Time 
10:00Sports and Music 
10:15Tales of Tech 
11:15Final Edition 
11:30 Sign Off
Fraternities and Sororities
Open Aa Account and Get 
YOUR FULL DISCOUNT
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 FORBES ST.
Saturday, October 25
6:00On the Air 
6:05Luckies News Cast 
6:5The Bob and Gary Show 
8:00Music for Dancing 
9:C0Music for Dreaming 
10:00Sports and Music 
10:15The 3 and V2 Crazy Engineers 
11:15Final Edition 
11:30Sign Off
Sunday, October 26
1:00On the Air 
1:05Luckies News Cast 
1:15The Amie Brockman Show 
3:C0Escape with Me 
5:00The Five Oclock News and 
Sports Cast 
5:30Adventures in Research 
5:45Serenade in Blue 6:00The WRCT Symphony Hour 
9:00The Tech Miniature Theatre 
10:00Musical Varieties 
11:15Final Edition 
11:30Sign Off
Monday, October 27
6:00On the Aii 
6:05Luckies News Cast 
6:15Musical Interlude 
ar.30Twenty Questions 
7:00Music for Monday 
7:30Live Y~ers 8:00Musical Poetry 
8:20WRCT Little Theatre 
-Enosupo
-Music and Sports 
-Dons Dixie Discinfs 
-Final Edition 
Sign Off
the easiest-writing 
portable ever built!
Royal Portable hold* tHe official World'* 
Portable Speed Champion*hip at shown 
In the current World'* almanac.
Iff it Here
Terns as low as SJ.25 Weekly
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
644 Liberty Avenue kW EmpHcY
 SUPPLIES  
REPAIRS  RENTALS
other car in the lot before I come ; 
to my flatwheel five, I have a daily j 
reminder that all the crazy people  in the world are not in hospitals, j In fact, several of them . . . But! 
any way there are some mighty j queer vehicles around this campus. A year or so ago when I saw a gigantic army tracked personnel carrier driving up and down the Skibo sidewralk, I figured I had seen everything. If a car isnt 
around the CIT campus, it isnt worth having. In fact some that are around the CIT campus arent worth . . .
Different Grilles 
The ones that strike me pink are 
the jalopies with the red grilles. I found a driver of one of these flying tigers in the Tartan office last 
week, so I buttonholed the buzzard to ask him, Why the crimson 
nose pal, too much alcohol in the radiator? He looked through me with a brutal stare ^nd droned, So the blood wont show.'Whose blood?, I asked innocently, but 
my sadistic, black-hooded friend crept away in hushed conference with the freshman regulations committee.
I talked with another owner the fellow who drives that rig with one side blue and the side red. When I asked the why of his peculiar paint job, he said, You should hear the accident witnesses contradicting each other.
Beautiful Waggins 
Some of these wragons are pure dreamboats; I noticed one especially, a beautifully shined spanking 
new convertible with excellent lines accentuated by dual exhausts,
horns, polka-dot sidewalls, illuminated fender flaps, and an electric 
blue bug deflector. This car be
spoke quality from its Hollywood 
mufflers right down to its solid 
gold radiator. It took my breath 
away; it was simply fascinating. 
When I happened, to notice the 
luscious blonde, Marilyn Monroe, in a sweater, behind the wheel, I said, Say isnt that an unusual curve to your windshield? It. seems she hates to drive with glasses, so she has a prescription windshield.
Beats Walking
Study Course Is 
Offered To All 
New Freshmen
On Tuesday, October 28, Dr. 
Morgan, head of the department of 
measurement and guidance, will 
initiate a How To Study course. 
This course is open only to fresh
men, and consists of a series of 
meetings following the one on Oc
tober 28.
This follow-up series will be 
divided into two sections, each 
handling a different type of study 
problem. One section, under 
the direction of Professor Need
ham, will be designed to help reading comprehension.
The other section under the direction of Professor Morgan, will be concerned with a detailed discussion of problems related to concentration, memor3r, reviewing, and exam jitters. Tau Beta Pi, national honorary society, will assist in this course. The meeting schedule will be announced at the initial meeting.
ning to go downhillonly. I guess, though, we will always have with 
us the fire-engine red roadsters of the rumble seat era bouncing along on their 3.50 x 23 tires pass
ing 1953 models along the roadside, hood up.
It seems that-the fellers and gals who drive to the font of knowledge are content to be one less fare for the Pittsburgh Railways. They know that no matter how cantankerous the car is the blasted things sure beat walkin.
Idem Offered 
For So{\ Rel.
By Andy Stedry
The main course at Carnegie 
I Tech, peculiar to the Carnegie 
; Plan, consists of 8 semesters of 
Soc.Rel. Here are some sugges
tions as to how to be a success in 
this course:
1. Bring the professor newspa
per clippings (perferably dealing 
with his subject). If not pertinent 
to his subject, he will think it is. 
If hes written a book or article, 
be sure to cite examples from it 
in your tests.
2. Sit in front if you intend to 
; stay awake. Look alert and take 
| notes easily. If you must sleep
(foregone conclusion) arrange to 
be Called at the end of the hour. 
Dont have the instructor remark, j Please wake Smith up so that he | can make his next class.
; 3. Instructors try to tell jokes.If he looks up from his notes and smiles, laugh!
4. All instructors appreciate students who do outside reading. However, those students whose outside reading consists of calculus 
books in history class should take care that the books for the respective classes have similar covers.5. Ask any questions you think 
he cant answer. He will no doubt tell you to find the answer for yourself. (Carnegie Plan). At this point, you look in your kidbrothers second-grade reader and get an A for your answer.
THESE HMDS ARE PRICELESS f
They protect the American way of life uuu D3b homes6 our freedoms, our futureu
These Hands, sensitively trainedto respond acutely to the com
mands of an alert mind and courageous heart, are the hands of a 
United States Air Force Pilot.
The skillful touch of these hands attunes the blasting speed of 
modem jet aircraft fo effective missions in discouraging any 
enemy. These hands are supremely capable of flying and fighting 
these machines with devastating effect.
g, spirited American men (not supermen) who desire to live 
. .. who want to enjoy the same rights and opportunities open toThese Hands belong to you* 
unmolested in a free America 
all real American people.
These Hands belong to our sonsyours and mine. Youths who 
must decide today how they can share in defense of our nation and 
also better themselves. To insure greater chances of their success, 
todays college men should be encouraged to complete their educa
tion and then serve their country best by enlisting as Aviation 
Cadets in the U. S. Air Force.
Theirs is the choice of becoming either a Pilot or Aircraft 
Observer. After graduation as Second Lieutenants in the U. S. Air 
Force, they wear the silver wings D0 flying executives and begin 
earning nearly $5300 a year.
These Hands represent a man ready to qualify for this tremendous task because he is between 
the ages of 19 and 26 Yi years, unmarried, and in excellent physical condition, especially eyes, 
ears, heart and teeth. He possesses at least two years of college and the inherent urge to fly.
These Hands shape the destiny of America... the difference between our survival and oblivion.
The U. S. Air Force needs the hands, the minds and the hearts of young Americans who 
desire to make the American way a greater way of peace and happiness for all.
WHERE To Get More Details
Visit your nearest U. S. Air Force Bate or write direct 
to Aviation Cadef, Hnadquarttr, U. S. Air Force 
Washington 25, D. C.
AIRCRAFT

---------------------------------------------------

Job Of Editing Pap er 
Not Up To Staff Alone
#While up at the Plaid office the other night, your editor began 
thumbing through some night school editions of years gone by. It 
seems that in the past there was always plenty of news to fill 
the last inside page of the Tartan, but as years roll on the amount of 
news items seems to decrease.
As few people realize, the jobs of editing the paper is not neces
sarily up to the editor and his staff alone but with the evening 
students themselves. You are the ones who make the news. We 
let the others know about it. This is your paper, so let us know 
what type of articles you would like to see published. Express 
your opinions, give us your ideas.'
One BigSplash 
The launching of Dravos W. S. Rhea* * *
Social Program Launched 
By Women Evening Students
The fall social program will be launched by women evening stu
dents on November 2 at the annual tea sponsored by Evening 
Student Council. Phi Gamma Pi sorority members will be present 
to welcome guests aboard the S,S. Carnegie Union.
The program includes Timber-?-----------------------------------------------
head, a sound motion picture in 
full color which shows in action 
river towboats and barges. Timberhead has for its background the rich mid-summer scenery so
typical of Americas rivers and 
shows simply and concretely what the rivers mean to Mr. and Mrs. Average American.
The above picture which has
at 7:00 p.m. For tickets see officers 
or social committeeVic Sabol, 
Bob Gaydosz, Tom Robertshaw, 
Mary Margaret Kelly, Frank De 
Fazio, Jim Kettering, Carl Dorsch, 
or Florence Panno.
The Newman club is open to 
all Catholic evening students at 
Carnegie Tech.
Likewise if you have any con
structive criticism to offer, drop 
us a line. A Letter to the Edi
tor is often a bit encouraging, 
for then we know that students 
read what we write.
An even better way of getting 
what you want in the paper is to 
put in a personal appearance and 
help in editing the Plaid. Our of
fice, on the third floor of the Carnege Union, is open Friday even
ings from 8:30 to 11:00 p.m..
The least we can ask the even
ing students, and yet have them 
aid both Council and us, is to pick 
up a copy of each edition of the 
Plaid and read it. In the 
that the paper is not in its 
per location at the entrance to the 
various* buildings, get in touch with a Student Council member and insist that it be there next class night. In his way will we be sure that our 
reaches everyone.
A possible suggestion as to a 
way of supplying news for the 
Plaid is to have each 
school organization appoint a re
porter from their own ranks who 
will be responsible for supplying 
us with weekly articles on the 
activities of their respective or
ganization.
Until such time as we can get more student interest in Evening School activities, we will as in the past endeavor to put forth the best editions possible.
been used to announce the tea shows a recent launching in Pittsburgh. It was taken as the W. S. Rhea, built by Dravo Corporation, slid down the ways into the Ohio River at Dravos Neville island shipyard. This modern river towboat is one of many that moves our nations raw materials and finished products by river.
t;We Wstor*- ,
Lucky
University Recreation
BOWLING
Afternoon Bowling 
For Students
RENTAL of BOWLING SHOES
BY.mYx ;hkfS rWheeW 
r;gURyUP EmxHY.
For the BEST
-mPhotographie 
Equipment and Supplies
Liberty 
Photo 
Supply
Sh Em*B*. m m BH* tDDrLu
BULLETINI
;DyyUGU FL3-URLF 
'bU0Ub o3J2VUF VR 
RNLVDRm5V-U F3b,UPM
A nation-wide survey based on actual 
student interviews in 80 leading col
leges r eveals that more smokers in these 
colleges prefer Luckies than any other 
cigaretteand by a wide margin. The 
No. 1 reason given for smoking Luckies? 
Luckies better taste. Whats more, this 
same survey shows that Lucky Strike 
gained far more smokers in these col
leges than the nations two other prin
cipal brands combined.
Yes... LUCKIES 
TASTE BETTER!
1 -lau out
A. t. Co.Bra-was Itver had 1 
str,we  
Anthony R B'*ck
Notre D*1*1*
STUDENTS! 
Make $25!
Send in your 
'j / Lucky Strike
^ jingles now!
PRODUCT Or <J& 'J&rvtti&a ft <Jirxcco-(^cnyiany 
AMERICA S LEADING MANUFACTURER OJT CIGARETTE*
iah k
;oekdeh6 iherIeh6 rnaaWIeh rna9e
Be HappyGO LUCKY!
Wednesday, October 22, 1952CARNEGIE TARTANPage 11
\ \
^CAJtNEGIEki/ /)// CamC # pusAnouc
Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology.
Editor .............................................................................. Victor Sabol
Reporters.........Anna Mae Legosh, George Schussler, Charles Keller,
Bill Brobst
Editorial
Weiner Roast Is 
To Be Held Soon 
At North Park
The evening school Newman 
club is getting oif to a fine start 
this year. The meeting on October
5 was highly successful and many 
plans were made for the coming 
school year. Social events will be 
advertised in the Plaid.
Plans are now under way for a 
weiner roast to be held at Hem
locks dance hall, North park, on 
November 2, 1952 at 7:30. The 
price of admission is $1.00 per 
person. Transportation can be ob
tained at the Administration Hall

---------------------------------------------------

Pge 12CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, October 22, 1952
Also Featured: Honorary Calls, 
Kiltie Band, Cameron Choir
[Continued from page 1]
Music Featured
On the musical side of the pro
gram, Cameron choir, with a new 
group composed of 60 selected 
voices, will sing several Scottish 
airs. This is the choirs first ap
pearance since rigid tryouts and 
eliminations were held last 
month. The Kiltie band will play 
several selections from Porgy 
and Bess.
Mortar Board has arranged sev
eral items for the convenience of 
week-enders visiting here. A new 
seating arrangement has been de
vised for the gymnasium, facili
tating viewing of the program. 
They have also included a sched
ule of the entire week-ends 
events in the Carnegie day pro
grams, which will be distributed 
by usherettes.
The judging of the fraternity 
house decoration will begin at 
6:30 p.m. Judges are: Joseph C. 
Fitzpatrick, superintendent of art 
in the Pittsburgh public schools; 
Professor Helen Topp, professor of 
home economics, MMCC; and Don
ald Codispoti, reporter for the 
Sun-Telegraph.
Will Rate Displays
Prior to the Citcom-sponsored 
Pep Rally at 7:30 in the Tech 
bowl, the Kiltie band will parade 
from FA to the dorms and then to 
the bowl. Immediately following the rally, Citcom, the commutors group, is having a free, record dance in Thistle Hall; everyone is welcome. Concurrently each fraternity will hold open house for visitors and returning alumni.
From 10:00 to 12:00 Saturday morning, a tour will be conducted for the benefit of alumni and interested students. It will begin at the Union, and include all buildings and departments on 
campus.
A colorful entrance at Forbes
ililillilHiillll
Field will precede the Tech vs. 
Case football game Saturday af
ternoon. At 2:00 the queen and 
her court will arrive with the 
Kiltie band, piper corps, and mili
tary escort. The Case band will 
also be on hand and give an ex
hibition during half time, along 
with the Kilties. Kickoff for the 
game will be at 2:30.
Final Event 
The culminating event of the 
Homecoming week-end will be 
the semi-formal dance in the gym 
Saturday evening. Dancing will 
be from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Baron 
Elliotts 12 man ensemble will 
play in the mens gym and Walt 
Harpers group in the womens 
gym. Many Scottish clans coats of arms and plaids will be includ1 ed in the dance decorations. Dur! ing the 11:00 p.m. intermission, 
the cup for the best fraternity 
house decoratons wll be awarded. Also at intermission, a Scotch n 
Soda preview will be presented.
Sale of tickets for the dance will take place every day from 11:30 to 1:30 in Skibo. The price per ticket is only $2.50.
Draft Test
All male students who are 
registered with selective service 
and who have not taken one of 
the tests given previously, are 
urged to apply immediately for 
permission to take the selective 
service qualification test. Appli
cation forms are available at 
any local board. Tests will be 
given on December 4, 1952, and 
April 23, 1953; but regardless of 
the date selected it is advisable 
to file an application at once. 
All students enrolled in ROTC 
are advised to take the test, even 
though they may be currently 
classified in class 1-D.
Campus Plan
[Continued from page 2] 
the model layout with a more upto-date one, he said, but we 
dont know yet how far well 
deviate from the present one. 
Mr. Miller indicated ' that a 
new development might be forth
coming shortly, but he refused to 
release any information concern
ing it.
Bulletin Board
YMCA District Conference 
October 31November 2
The last weekend in October, 
October 31 to November 2, is the 
date for the combined YMCA and 
YWCA district conference at Camp 
Crestview, near Slippery Rock, Pa. 
The theme for this fall retreat is 
the call to be a Christian stu
dent, and the main speaker will 
be Dr. L. B. Moseley of the First Baptist church in Pittsburgh. The cost is only $3 per person, and the deadline for reservations is Thursday, October 23.
Lutheran Student Association 
Will Meet On October 21
The Lutheran student associa
tion will meet on October 21 with 
dinner being served at 6:00 p.m. 
After dinner, a panel discussion on 
Campus Morals will be led by 
Pat Naugle. These meetings are 
held in St. Andrews church, lo
cated at Center and Morewood.
Every Tuesday, at 12:00 noon, a 
seminar on Christian ethics is held 
in AH 132-F. All students are cor
dially invited.
Sales TVDETMfDITCDC Office 
Service | f I L VII I I EL HO Supplies
NEW PORTABLES for RENT
WEEK  MONTH  TERM 
Free Delivery and Pick-Up Service
PHONE MU 2-3956
ALLIED OFFICE MACHINES CO.
3806 Forbes Street
Everything In Flowers
CIDAS
Your Campus Florist
CORSAGES
Orchids . . . . s3.50 
Gardinias or Roses . s3.00
Free Delivery
MA-SC 1-1300
3719 FORBES ST.OAKLAND
o o owill Tell . .......................................
AS JULIUS CAESAR ONCE SAID/ 
"GALLIA EST OMNI IS DIVISA IN
LATIN YET/ HE'LL BE 
CUM LAUDE IN HIS 
FRESHMAN 
YEAR!
{ % A
HOW CAN 
SHE TELL SO 
SOON? 
WAIT 'TIL
9CARN
t
ED,CT219 52,,T9Pr es iVL4d n idtoJad 
h9n,,C 2uc nDy PD,C T219 52,, T9,, nlPFTn
cigarette! dLJ yourd.VJrrrVLJ dJ iJai.bNJ
30-DAY CAMEL MILDNESS TEST SEE HOW 
CAMELS SUIT YOU AS YOUR STEADY SMOKE j
feCAMHS
ftr 30 dajs
6r Mildness and Ravor
CAMELS are Americas most pop
ular cigarette. To find out why, 
test them as your steady smoke. 
Smoke only Camels for thirty days. 
See how ricji and flavorful they are 
 pack after pack ! See how mild 
CAMELS are  week after week !
CAMEL leads all other brands
by billions of cigarettes per year!
