Win tickets to Woody Allen's Latest Movie See ASK BRUCE in Diversions 
Who has the Sexiest Body Parts on Campus? See page 5
The Tartan
Volume 81, Issue 17Carnegie Mellon UniversityFebruary 17,1987
Ticket 
Scammer 
Arrested
By DRUE MILLER
Tartan News Editor 
A local man who has been swindling 
Carnegie Mellon students with 
promises of cheap concert tickets and 
other goods has been arrested. Allen
C. McDonald, 37, was arrested Friday 
by Pittsburgh Police from the #6 
(Squirrel Hill) station. McDonald had 
ripped off as many as 8 students, 
always by setting up the same general 
situation. According to Lt. Mary 
Suber of CMU Security, he had been 
operating in the vicinity since 1983.
His standard operating procedure was 
to find a student with a car and ask for 
a ride to a gas station, claiming his 
van had broken down. He would then 
tell the victim that he was in a band 
and could get him concert tickets at a 
low price. Most recently, he had been 
offering tickets to a Genesis concert, 
however, Genesis cancelled their 
Pittsburgh appearance in January 
because of the city's 10% Amusement 
Tax. The victim would then give him 
money and drive him to a different 
section of town (often the Hill 
District) where McDonald claimed he 
had to get the tickets. He would leave 
the victim with a bag of oregano he 
claimed was marijuana as collateral, 
and disappear into a building with the 
money, not to return.
In other cases, McDonald had offered 
TVs, VCRs, and car stereos for $100 
or less. He had also operated as far 
away as Century III Mall, in West 
Mifflin.
McDonald, who operated under 
various assumed names including 
Mario Hill, was arraigned on four 
counts of theft by deception. A 
hearing has been scheduled for 
Wednesday, February 18th.
Anybody with more information 
about him is asked to call the Squirrel 
Hill station at 422-6520 and Campus 
Security at x2323.
Student Raped 
at Frat Party
A Carnegie Mellon student was raped while 
attending a party at Alpha Tau Omega the 
night of Saturday, February 7th. Sources 
claim the man who raped her is an alumnus. 
The victim has yet to decide whether or not 
she will press charges.
Due to mid-semester break, 
The Tartan will not appear next 
Tuesday. The board and staff 
of The Tartan wish everyone a 
happy, healthy break, and look 
for us March 3rd.
Campus Construction: Latest Plans
By KEVIN POECKING
Tartan Staffwriter
For the past few years, VP for Business 
Affairs Fred Rogers has been visiting the 
dorms and talking to students about the 
present state of affairs. Last Tuesday evening 
he was at the Donner lounge, discussing, 
among other things, the dorm to be built 
across from Margaret Morrison Apartments. 
The new dorm will have approximately 300 
spaces and will be in the style of the newly 
renovated Boss and McGill dorms. Plans to 
have a dining hall in the building to serve 
the Hill dorms are also included.
Rogers went on to discuss the old plans of 
the University Center. He explained that 
architects are competing to draw up plans for 
the new center. The outcomes of the 
architectural competition will publicize the
dorm and help raise money for the building. 
The actual building will probably take about 
three years to finish. Dining facilities 
during the three years won't create a 
foreseeable problem, but finding space for 
the activities now held in the Wherrett 
Room and the Ballroom is a definite 
problem. The new center should provide a 
major increase in sports facilities. A pool 
twice the size of the old one, a weight room 
and locker rooms with saunas are being 
considered for the center. The building may 
include a 400 to 500 seat movie theater, a 
post office, and a bookstore, at least twice as 
big as the one in the basement in Baker 
Hall. Plans are allowed to take over the 
tennis courts, but only if space is found in 
the building for an equal number of 
courts. Currently, no plans exist for an
outdoor basketball court or major changes in 
the old gym.
Rogers reluctantly spoke about the campus 
parking situation. The only clear plan 
would be to have off-campus parking and a 
shuttle during peak hours. Possibilities of 
underground parking or a parking garage 
exist, but would cost six to fifteen times as 
much. Students liked Rogers' idea of 
building a parking garage behind Morewood 
Gardens with an outdoor basketball court on 
top.
Other topics included plans for the 
industrial park in the J&L steel mill site, the 
Andrew workstations, and the campus 
libraries. Students also discussed the lack of 
communication between students in separate 
departments. Many of the plans discussed 
are still very tentative.
Censorship Versus the College Newspaper
(NSNS) The American student press, 
which has waged a long-standing struggle 
against university censorship, is increasingly 
turning to the courts to settle the issue of 
editorial control. Student editors invoking 
First Amendment protection against 
administrative censorship are plaintiffs in at 
least six currently pending lawsuits. Among 
them:
Andrew Rathbone, editor of the Daily 
Aztec at San Diego State University, filed 
suit in federal court last month against the 
California State University system. The suit 
challenges the system's policy prohibiting 
student newspapers from endorsing political 
candidates and ballot questions in unsigned 
editorials. Rathbone, one of 11 student 
editors in the Cal State system who opted to 
ignore the policy last November, is 
contesting the schools intent to censure him 
for his actions.
Adam Truitt, who was fired from his 
editor's post at the Humboldt (CA) State 
University Lumberjack in 1984 for the 
same reason, has had a suit against the same 
system pending in a California district court 
since October 1984.
Student editors and a former faculty 
advisor at Northern Illinois University last 
year filed a federal court suit against the 
school for removing the advisor from his 
position. The ongoing suit contends that the 
advisor was removed for encouraging a hardnosed brand of investigative reporting at the 
student paper, the Northern Star, which 
over the years has turned up several 
unflattering stories on NIU administrators.
If removal of student editors and 
sympathetic advisors are extreme examples, 
university censorship in one form or another 
is more prevalent than most people may 
realize. "It happens every week," says Mark 
Goodman of the Student Press Law Center 
in Washington, D.C. "Last year, we received 
551 calls relating to actual or threatened 
censorship of college publications." 
Goodman guesses that those calls "are only 
the tip of the iceberg, since in many cases 
the intimidation works and the censorship 
goes unreported."
"President-as-publisher" vs. state
control of press
The main question raised by such incidents 
is constitutional: do public university 
officials, as employees of the state, have the 
right to control subject matter and content of 
student papers? According to many officials, 
they do, because under most systems the 
university president is considered publisher 
and therefore responsible for libelous or 
unethical material. Along with that 
responsibility, the argument holds, goes the 
publisher's right to decide what gets printed 
and what does not
Denny Hall, a journalism professor at 
Central State Unversity in Oklahoma, 
refutes the president-as-publisher argument 
Hall, who served as faculty advisor for the 
student-run Vista from 1976 to 1980, 
resigned from his post over what he 
considered administrative pressure to censor 
the paper. "There have been numerous 
decisions holding that the president is not 
responsible for the content of the student 
paper," he says. "The student press differs
from the private press in that no one who is 
a state official can exercise censorship 
control under the Constitution of the United 
States."
Hall's statements underline the basis for 
most of the current lawsuits, including the 
Humboldt case. Truitt says that such action 
trivializes the role of a student paper. "The 
student press for a long time played a real 
advocacy role. Then, with the tenor of the 
times, it changed into a sort of 'bulletin 
board press:' the Delta Phis are having a 
dance, and so on." Truitt places part of the 
blame for the change on policies like the one 
his suit contests, which he describes as 
basically self-defeating. "The essence of 
education is to throw back and forth ideas on 
any number of topics. Why not politics?"
Other pending censorship suits include a 
case at Pike's Peak Community College in 
Colorado, at eight years the longest running 
of the lot The case has been to the state 
supreme court and back to trial, with no 
continued on page 7
photo by Duyl Thomas
At 4:15 Sunday morning, this car took the turn from Forbes onto 
Morewood too quickly and flipped over. The Chatham student driving 
the car was unharmed. She was believed to be intoxicated at the time.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanFebruary 17, 1987
Iranscam Plans 
Began 4 Years Ago
A well-concealed program established at 
least four years ago reportedly laid the 
groundwork for covert dealings between the 
United States, Iran, and Nicaragua. The 
public side of "Project Democracy" openly 
gives money to democratic institutions 
abroad. But the New York Times says the 
secret side of the program was operated by 
fired White House aide Oliver North, and 
operated outside established government 
channels.
Soviet Prisoner Freed
The Soviet dissident whose imprisonment 
sparked violent confrontations in Moscow 
between protestors and security agents last 
week has been released from jail. A Soviet 
official said on CBS "Face the Nation" that 
Josef Begun has been freed. Georgi Arbatov 
also said Begun would have been released 
earlier had it not been for the demonstrations 
staged on his behalf. Begun is a Hebrew 
teacher who was sentenced to seven years' 
imprisonment for anti-Soviet activity.
Waite Still Held 
Captive
Attempts to locate and free hostage 
negotiator Terry Waite continue. Druse 
Warlord Walid Jumblatt has appealed to the 
Shiite Moslem faction Hezbollah to release 
Waite if he is in their custody. Hezbollah, or
"Party of God" has denied claims by Western 
Intelligence sources that it might have been 
involved in Waite's disappearance.
Car Bomb Targeted 
for Israeli Hospital
Israeli Military censors are keeping a tight 
lid on information concerning an explosion 
outside Tel Aviv Sunday. The explosion 
went off near a major Israeli hospital, but a 
police spokeswoman says there were no 
Israeli casualties. The blast is being 
described as an attempted car bombing by 
Palestinian terrorists.
New Status Could 
Mean More Arms for 
Israel
Israeli officials say elevation to "Official 
Ally" status with the United States could 
mean expanded military cooperation. Prime 
Minister Yitzhak Shamir, who's getting 
ready for a ten-day visit to the U.S., says 
there are certain advantages that will come 
with the change in status, but he wouldnt 
provide details. Israel is the largest recipient 
of U.S. Foreign Aid.
New Strain of AIDS 
Discovered
A French researcher has some troubling 
news about AIDS. She told a Tokyo 
conference on the deadly disease that a new 
strain of AIDS has been found in Africa and 
Europe that cannot be detected with most 
blood tests currently on the market. Japan's 
Kyodo news service says the researcher 
believes the second strain will make it much 
harder to develop an AIDS vaccine.
Campus Briefsfrom the National Student News Service
Drug Testing Protest
David Bally, a junior on the Northeastern University track team who filed a Jan. 13 suit 
against the university over its mandatory drug-testing program, was declared ineligible for 
varsity competition last week. The school took the action in response to Bally's refusal to 
sign a form consenting to the tests. Bally's attorney plans to file a motion for preliminary 
injunction allowing Bally to compete pending the outcome of the suit.
Tuition Costs:
The Florida Student Association met with the Board of Regents of the Florida State 
University system Jan. 28 to express their opposition to a proposed differentiated tuition 
plan. The system's nine schools currently charge uniform tuition rates. FSA members, 
echoing student concerns behind recent protests in France and Mexico, say that the change 
would devalue the degrees of some state universities and promote inequality in the system.
Contribution Controversey 
Student opinion at the American University in Washington, DC is divided over plans to 
name the schools new on-campus sports center after billionaire Saudi arms dealer Adnan 
Khashoggi. A member of the school's board of trustees, Khashoggi has donated $5 million 
toward the centers construction. Concern has been expressed over the issue in light of 
reports that Khashoggi acted as intermediary in the covert Iran-Nicaragua arms deal.
CIA Protest:
A Massachusetts District Court judge last week scheduled Brown University student Amy 
Carter to go on trial April 6 for her role in the Nov. 24 anti-CIA demonstration at the 
Univeristy of Massachusetts at Amherst. Carter and 19 of the 60 students arrested with her 
have opted for a jury trial. Under an agreement reached with the district attorney, the students 
will be allowed to bring in expert witnesses such as former CIA agent John Stockwell and 
activist Daniel Ellsberg in order to mount a so-called "necessity defense."
International Student News:
BEUING  Lin Jie, a student at Tianjin University, was arrested for "providing 
intelligence" to an American reporter, authorities said last week. The student was accused of 
"secret collusion" with Lawrence McDonald, a reporter for the French news agency Agence 
France-Presse, who broke the story last month of student protests at the University of 
Science and Technology in Hefei. The story touched off a month-long series of student 
demonstrations in other cities, leading to a purge of "pro-Westem" officials in the Chinese 
government
BEIRUT  An estimated 1,000 students marched through West Beirut Jan. 26 in protest of 
the Jan. 24 kidnapping of four professors from Beirut University College. Three of the four 
were Americans: Alan Steen, 48, Jesse Turner, 53, and Robert Polhill, 53; and one Indianborn US resident Mithileshwar Singh.
ALL YOU NEED TO KNOW 
ABOUT FINDING A 
SPECTACULAR APARTMENT 
FOR SEPTEMBER IS 
DARAN MANAGEMENT
COMPANY
FORBES AT HALKET STREET6819100

---------------------------------------------------

February 17, 1987The TartanPage 3
Guide to the New W-4 FormTwo Carnegie Mellon 
Students Win Scholarships to Attend Marketing Institute
The new W-4 Form that all employees, 
including both graduate and undergraduate 
students, are required to complete this 
year contains only nine fill-in-the-blanks
 deceptively simple. The instructions 
covering these blanks run nearly four 
pages.
But don't panic. You can get through it 
if you take things step by step. Consider 
it an intricate game  entertainment for 
a cold winter's night rivaling the best that 
a game can offer.
According to the Internal Revenue 
Service, here are some rules that 
specifically reference students:
Winners of the W-4 Form game are 
those who are exempt from withholding 
in the first place. They get to check the 
appropriate box on the W-4 Form and 
need never go to the work sheet to figure
the appropriate number of allowances.
You're exempt from withholding only if 
you did not have any federal income tax 
liability for the tax year 1986 AND you 
expect to have no federal income tax 
liability this year.
There's a footnote to this rule if you can 
be claimed as a dependent on another 
person's tax return, that of your parents, 
for instance. If so, you CANNOT claim 
exempt status if you have any non-wage 
income (interest, dividends, capital gains, 
etc.) which TOGETHER WITH WAGES 
adds up to more than $500.
If students have specific questions 
concerning these rules, they should check 
with their parents for withholding 
instructions. You could also contact the 
Internal Revenue Service, locally, at 
telephone number 281-0112.
Corinne L. Stoller, a senior majoring in 
industrial management, and Cameron 
Douglas, a graduate student in the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administration, have 
both won scholarships to attend the Direct 
Marketing Collegiate Institute. Two of 20 
winners, Stoller and Douglas will attend this 
regional Institute co-sponsored by the Direct 
Marketing Educational Foundation and the
Carlow College Celebrates Black Week
Carlow College's Black Week celebration 
continues today, February 17 at 12:30 p.m., 
with the showing of "Woza Albert" in 
Carlow's Grace Library, and at 7 p.m. with 
an opening reception for the black art 
exhibition, "A Woman's Vision," in Mellon 
Galleries.
On February 18 an Afro-American dinner is 
scheduled at 4:30 in Tieman Hall, followed 
at 7 p.m. by a "Talent and Portrayal Night" 
in Kresge Theatre. The movie "Ragtime" 
will be shown on February 19 at 9 p.m. in 
Kresge Theatre. Admission is $.50. February 
20 at 8 p.m., a double feature will be 
screened at Kresge Theatre.
February 21 the United Black Students, the 
Office of Adult and Minority Student 
Programs and the Collegiate YMCA of 
Carlow will sponsor a "Female Sexuality 
Workshop" at the downtown YMCA. Pre
registration is $2.00 for students. For further 
information, call 578-6000 or 578-6149
Direct Marketing Association of 
Washington, from February 22-27, 1987, in 
Washington, D.C.
The Collegiate Institute is five and one-half 
days of practical direct marketing instruction 
taught by leading direct marketing 
practitioners. It is an introduction to direct 
marketing and to career opportunities in the 
field. Sessions will cover direct mail, lists, 
databases, research and testing, copy, 
business-to-business direct response, 
catalogs, magazine circulation, telephone 
marketing, political/non profit fund-rasing, 
direct response TV and business ethics.
The non-profit foundation was established 
to further direct marketing education at the 
college and university level.
Frick Nature Center 
Seeks Volunteers
The Frick Nature Center located in Frick 
Park off of Beechwood Boulevard will be 
conducting classes for volunteers interested 
in learning more about the great outdoors 
and working with children. The classes are 
free and will be conducted during February. 
When classes are completed, volunteers will 
be qualified to participate in the Volunteer 
Outdoor Teacher Program. These volunteers 
will aid the Environmental Program Staff of 
the Nature Center in conducting elementary 
school programs, and special events during 
the months of February through May. 
Interested individuals should phone the Frick 
Nature Center at 422-6538 to register.
Ballys Helmet Wins Place in MOMAs Design Collection
PITTSBURGH The revolutionary design 
of the new Brigade Firefighter Helmet, 
designed by Carnegie Mellon University 
Associate Professor Alex Bally, has earned 
the helmet inclusion in the Design 
Collection of New Yorks Museum of 
Modem Art.
Created by Bally and project engineer 
Glenn Davis for Mine Safety Appliances, 
the helmet was developed to provide safety 
features to match today's sophisticated 
firefighting techniques while meeting users' 
needs.
The basic requirements of the helmet were 
drawn from performance standards set by the 
National Fire Protection Association and
OSHA (the Occupational Safety and Health 
Administration.)
The design process, says Bally, involved 
using telephone surveys and other means of 
research to find out the human factors that 
had to be considered to produce a good 
helmet. As part of the design process, the 
helmet prototypes were created and evaluated 
by firefighters to give the designers feedback 
on users' reactions to helmet design 
concepts.
In 1985, the Brigade Firefighter Helmet 
won the prestigious IDEA (industrial design 
excellence award) for equipment from the 
Industrial Designers Society of America.
Black White& Read
all over campus
The advantages of having your work published are countlessexperience, 
exposure, recognition, etc. So no matter how busy you are, why not submit a 
story or poem to Dossier/Tartan on a Macintosh disk by 5pm, February, 27th. 
And let everyone see you in print.
DOSLITERA TUREDESIGN
H
O
O
Carnegie Mellon's Newest Department
T We relate traditional philosophical concerns to practical andj theoretical issues in Computer Science and the Natural and
Social Sciences. We offer
a flexible disciplinary major 
a professional major in Logic & Computation * 
a variety of concentrations and minors
COME TO OUR OPEN HOUSE
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17,4:15-5:30 p.m. 
BAKER HALL 135
* Logic & Computation majors get a firm background in comT_T puter science, together with a grounding in logic, philosophy,* and formal theories of language. Logic & Computation can
be pursued as a double major by students in MCS and CIT.
Wi

---------------------------------------------------

Duuetuomt Dii du-setud
........................................................
:__________________________
rbedakDt ,m-tdeimb DTTio,Duomtd Dbe DhDoiDnie Du uae dwonm otrmbkDuomt sedw
Diul DTTio,Duomtd k-du ne u-btes ot np rbosDp mr uaod xeewy or pmDbe uaotwot. mr neot. D rbedakDt ,m-tdeimbl To,w -T D rmbk Dtsroii ou m-uy
Freshman Camp is August 16-23 
Applications due February 20, 1987 
at Skibo Info Desk

---------------------------------------------------

February 17, 1987The TartanPage 5
Crime and Incident Report i & ik i&fcScotland Yard's 2nd Annual
* Se-?qj Body Parts Contest
2/6 9:27 am THEFT Public Relations
Building. Running shoes and $25 from petty 
cash taken.
2/6 8:20 pm THEFT 3rd floor, Hunt
Library. Red purse removed from unattended 
backpack. Contained MAC card, no money
2/1 12:49 am CRIMINAL MISCHIEF
Fire extinguisher discharged inside E-4 escort 
van.
2/7 1:19 am CRIMINAL MISCHIEF
12-15 foot tree in front of Welch pulled 
down, snapped off at trunk.
2/7 1:43 am SUSPICIOUS PERSON
2 students being followed by male through 
Skibo. Actor pretended to use MAC 
machine, then followed them outside of 
building, crouched behind bushes by Skibo 
loading dock. Students went back inside 
Skibo to notify Escort. Actor (who turned 
out to be a CMU student) was picked up by 
Security, told them he had been at a party 
and was crouching in bushes because he was 
sick.
2/1 3:29 am INTOXICATED
PERSON Male found lying on second 
floor bathroom of 0H. Was transported to 
residence.
2/7 4:12 am CRIMINAL MISCHIEF
Fire extinguisher discharged in linen 
exchange closet of A-wing, 'Schlag.
Hunt Library 4th 
taken from table
2/1 7:44 am CRIMINAL
Window pane in door to room 
Doherty Hall broken.
MISCHIEF
1207 of
2/7 10:07 am CRIMINAL MISCHIEF
Door panel kicked out to room 2 in CFA 
basement.
2/7 10:37 am ALARM Alarm on
Bookstore entrance to steam tunnels went 
off. Group of LAE pledges found hiding in 
tunnels.
2/7 5:08 pm THEFT CMU ID, MAC
card and driver's license removed from jacket 
at 0E.
2/7 8:31 pm SPECIAL 2 students found
drinking beer in Hunt Library reference 
section.
2/1 9:15 pm THEFT
floor. Swatch watch 
where student had left it.
2/8 4:28 pm UNAUTHORIZED
PERSON Person in Donner soliciting for 
hair salon without a permit.
2/8 4:43 pm THEFT MG lot, passenger
window to 1984 Mercury Cougar broken, 
Pioneer stereo cassette removed.
2/9 11:29 am THEFT Doherty Grad lot,
Alpine stereo cassette stolen from locked 
1986 Honda Civic.
2/9 5:02 pm SPECIAL 6 CMU students
at Century III Mall being followed by 
foreign, possibly Spanish, male with beard, 
mustache, thin build and noticeable accent. 
Man touched victim's hip from behind 
several times and said "Excuse me." Was 
joined by another foreign male, who also 
began to bother victim. Victim alerted Mall 
Security after running from males when one 
told her she was beautiful and he wanted her, 
and later yelled "Bitch" as she ran. Security 
told the males to leave the Mall.
v
2/10 12:35 am SPECIAL MG Vending
machine giving out free food. Security 
emptied the machine and notified vending. 
2/10 8:20 am SUSPICIOUS PERSON
Black male in Art Store acting suspicious. 
Was identified as an outpatient from St. 
Francis Hospital after he told Security he 
was there to apply to the "School 
Intelligence" Was escorted off campus.
2/11 3:55 am THEFT Mixing board, 5
sweatshirts, 1 pair K2 skis, 1 pair slalom 
skis stolen from ATQ basement.
2/11 1:30 pm THEFT Clyde Street, 1984
Chevy Blazer stolen.
2/11 5:40 pm BURGLARY Shirley Apts.
Student walked into room, found her glasses 
broken, clothing scattered around room, 
medicine stolen.
2/11 9:50 pm ARREST Student walking 
towards ear in MG lot was approached by 
short black male claiming his vehicle had 
broken down and he needed a ride to a gas 
station. Actor offered tickets to Genesis 
concert to victim for $9.50 apiece. Victim 
drove to fraternity house to get money, actor 
was apprehended by Security in parking lot.
Artificial Intelligenceat
SRI International
SRI INTERNATIONAL is a problem 
solving organization performing con
tract research and development for a 
wide variety of clients. We are a recog
nized leader in basic and applied re
search in Artificial Intelligence. The 
Engineering Research Group at SRI is 
looking for individuals to perform ap
plied research in the following areas:
 Automatic planning
 Reasoning under uncertainty
 Natural language understanding
 Distributed reasoning
 Image understanding
 Parallel AI architectures
 Real-time AI systems
SRI will be interviewing Masters and 
PhD level Computer Science and Elec
trical Engineering students for posi
tions in the above applied AI areas on:
Wednesday, March 4,1987
If interested, please sign up at the Place
ment Center.
If you are unable to take advantage of 
the interview sessions, please send your 
resume and cover letter discussing your 
interests to: Michael Patrick, Manager, 
Professional Staffing, Dept. CMU-87, 
SRI INTERNATIONAL, 333 Ravenswood Avenue, Menlo Park, CA 94025. 
U.S. Citizenship required. An equal op
portunity employer.
SRIL International
A Touch of Worth Avenue in Pittsburgh
m
rf & cz>
{VvfOOf~ GtJou/fyue

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanFebruary 17, 1987
Senate Discusses New 
Buildings on Campus, 
Student Union Funding
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan Stqffwriter
During a discussion at Tuesday's meeting, 
several Senators debated the status of the 
Student Union under the Senates recently 
approved definition of political. Senator 
Elise Friedland suggested that the 
amendment would preclude any Senate 
funding to the Student Union. Allan 
Greenberg, a writer for the Union and 
chairman of the Senate Rules Committee, 
defended the publication's right to funding as 
a service organization, a catagory separate 
from that of an organization with funded 
recognition by the Student Senate. The 
Student Government Constitution does not 
restrict service organizations to non-political 
activities.
New campus buildings were mentioned in 
committee and individual reports. President 
Jim Denburg reported that the Trustees 
discussed the new dorm and new University 
Center. Senator Tamal Mukherjee added that 
the Administration plans to finance the dorm 
with a $10 million loan. This debt will be 
paid by raising housing costs 5 percent 
annually for the next thirty years.
The Senate approved a letter to the 
University Center Assessment Panel that 
urges the administration to appoint a student 
to that panel. An earlier version of the letter 
was rejected by the full Senate because of its 
strong tone. This week the Senate asked the 
Campus Affairs Committee to change the 
letter to read "University Center" rather than 
"student union" and then send copies to
President Richard Cyert, Trustee Ted 
Nierenberg, and Director of University 
Planning Pat Keating.
Glenn Kombrek, chairman of the Campus 
Affairs Committee reported on the buildings 
and grounds. The problem between the 
University and neighbors of off-campus 
housing has not yet been resolved. SEI is 
on budget and will be finished in July. The 
Administration is planning a $5 million 
physical plant building that will include 
shops currently housed in Porter Hall and 
campus planning offices.
Other Senate action included granting non
funded recognition of the CM Stars. This 
group wanted formal recognition as a club to 
allow it to reserve time in the gymnasium to 
play soccer.
Ban on Nuclear 
Topic of Sykes1
One of the most promising steps in arms 
control would be a treaty ending tests of 
nuclear weapons. Many advances have been 
made in the verification of such a test ban 
using seismic techniques. Dr. Sykes, the 
Higgins Professor of Geological Sciences at 
Columbia University has done much of the 
definitive work on this subject. (See, for 
example, his article in the January 1986 
Scientific American). He has also 
participated in the public debate on a
Newly Formed Womens Issues Group Scrutinizes Phyllis Schlafly
By SANDY MYERS
Tartan Stqffwriter
Last Thursday, February 12, marked the 
first meeting of a new group on campus.
Anne-Marie Harvey, Catherine Singstad, 
and Pam Horn have transformed Students 
for Choice into a group dedicated to 
issues concerning women and gender 
roles. The reason for this change, 
acccording to Harvey, is that interest in 
Students for Choice was dwindling; "we 
wanted to form a group to deal with 
broader issues that would appeal to more 
people." The group, which does not yet 
have an official name, is not for women 
only; the members plan to discuss genderrelated issues that will also be of concern
Testing is 
Lecture
possible test ban and will discuss the 
interplay of verification technology and 
politics. Lecture will be held Wednesday, 
February 25 at 3:30pm in Doherty Hall 
1112, CMU. (This lecture was postponed 
from its earlier scheduled date because of 
Professor Sykes' participation in a new 
federal study of test ban verification.)
Sponsored by CMU Program 
International Peace and Security.
on
to men.
At Thursday's meeting, which attracted 
over thirty men and women, those 
present held an informal discussion 
loosely based on Phyllis Schlafly's 
lecture of January 28. Responding to 
remarks of Schlafly's such as, "womens 
liberation is a fad," and "feminists are all 
lonely and dissatisfied, bitter, and/or 
lesbians," Harvey summed up the 
reactions of many when she said, "I was 
very angry throughout the whole talk." 
Others reflected that, "It's scary  some 
people believe what she says," and, "it's 
not a woman's responsibility to have 
children; it's a woman's right." The 
discussion went on to cover issues such 
as the draft, day care, and the problems 
women face having a career while raising 
a family.
Although the group is still in the 
initial stages of development, members 
have already planned another meeing for 
this Thursday, February 19, at 5:15 PM 
(signs will be posted as to the location). 
In the future, members hope to have 
readings of feminist literature as well as a 
variety of social events. Harvey also 
mentioned the possibility of forming a 
separate group to discuss feminism in 
relation to religion and mythology.
Those interested in the group who 
cannot attend Thursday's meeting and 
those wanting additional information 
should call Anne-Marie Harvey at x6103.
FASI FREE DELIVERY ___
CAU FOR FREE DEUVERY I 2 NOON TO 1 2 MIDNIGH682-333
GX> V >u
our dough mode FRESH doily ~ w
810 IVY STRICT  SHADYSIDf V682-3333
FREE DELIVERY TO: g?
 Shodyside  P* Breeie .
 Sq. HiM  Ooklond  *' 
 Friendship Pork 
 Bloomfield 
 Highland Pork,
^FWEl DELIVERY ^ ^
COUPON
I I
{ Large Cheese Pizza i | $ 3.99 |
!______I^ejjter of^oke________j
(All sandwiches come with r.elted provolone ch*e*e snd are OVEN-BAKED)
Italian Hoagie............................4.00
Va Hoagie...............................2.00
Hot Sausage..............................3.90
Meat Ball...................................3.90Cheese Hoagie..........................3.20Steak Hoagie.............................4.20
Pizza Steak Hoagie...................4.20
Cold Sub................................ 4.00
Capicolla (Deluxe).....................4.70
(R0l Italian Caplcolla with Qroon 
Rapport, Muthroomt 4 that Spocial Touch)
*rath lattuso. tomato, onion  unto pecttHdl. 
Rapport or Muahropma  25* Extra)
Dinner:
$
& C? ) d) d) d) tf) d) dj dj dj
Dinner with the Stars 
of the World of Business
d? d) ^ ^ dj ^ ^ ^ dj dj u)   ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^
THE CARNEGIE MELLON INVESTMENT GROUP
Proudly Presents
The First Annual 
Pittsburgh Financial Affairs Dinner
6:30 pm, Tuesday, March 3,1987 
Skibo Ballroom 
Carnegie Mellon University
Our program for the evening includes:
Chicken Cordon Bleu, with live jazz entertainment by an ensemble of Carnegie 
Mellon University students.
Presentations:Mr. Patrick L. Flannery,Executive Vice President of Management Science Associates, Incorporated.
Dr. Henry J. Gailliot,Senior Vice President Economist of Federated Research Corporation.
Dr. Allan H. Meltzer,John M. Olin Professor of Political Economics and Public Relations, Graduate 
School of Industrial Administration, Carnegie Mellon University.
Master of Ceremonies:Dr. Richard M. Cyert,
President of Carnegie Mellon University.
Dinner Information: 'Here's the perfect opportunity to meet and mingle with the people who make things happen in the exciting fields of finance and investment. The dinner will be attended 
by many prominent members of the Pittsburgh business community. Tickets will be 
made available to students on at the Skibo Info Desk beginning on Wednesday 
February 18th. Cost will be $12 per student (the price of the dinner). If you have 
any questions feel free to call X3605, or X6009.
... a truly informative and entertaining 
evening.
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$

---------------------------------------------------

February 17, 1987The TartanPage 7
Minutes of the Student Senate, February 10 1987
Meeting called to order 7:00pm 
Present: Bendre, Bostin, Clark, Flynn, 
Friedland, Goldstein, Greenberg, 
Hausman, Kombrek, Larson, Levy D, 
Levy E, Lewis, Liu, Maxwell, 
Mukherjee, Robitshek, Sharpe, Shastri, 
Sherlock, Shipley, Stachura, Staresinic, 
West.
Absent: Rapaport.
Ex-officio members: Dean Cox, Chu, 
DeLeon, Denburg.
Absent: Ross.
Audience Participation: None.
Dean Cox: Issue of CMU student
charged with death of Robert Morris 
woman. If you have information 
concerning the homicide please come to 
Student Affairs Office. Those students 
who may be having problems dealing 
with the incident are encouraged to visit 
Counseling Center.
President:Jim Denburg Retails Store 
Committee meeting Wed. February 11 at 
3:30pm. Financial Aid Budget Cut rally
in DC on April 13th.
SDC:Leanne Chu Concerning issue of 
refunding Food Contracts during second 
semester. UDS will review each students 
case and then decide on refund.
IFC: Elections for new IFC took place 2 
weeks ago. Blood drive on Jan. 27th and 
28th raised 180 pints of blood. New issue 
of 'Walking Escort is being discussed. 
Greek Sing will be at Camegie Music Hall, 
Friday March 6th.
Parking Committee: Shep Bostin No
report.
Chairman:Dave Goldstein Performance 
of "A View From the Bridge'1 Feb. 15 
16 and 17. Free at Studio Theater. Student 
Senate bulletin board was stolen off the 
door. Issue of having Senate Information 
Booth is in the works.
Treasurer:Fred DeLeon No report. 
Academic AfTairs:Norman Larson At 
Faculty Senate Meeting proposal concerning 
a computerized method of fulfilling academic 
requirements was discussed. By using
computer students from H&SS, MCS and 
CIT would know exactly what courses they 
needed to take in order to graduate.
Campus Affairs:Glenn Kornbrek 
Motion to finalize proposal concerning issue 
that two places on Assessment Panel be 
created for students. Motion passed. 
Problems with certain clocks around campus 
and broken door
in Skibo are being looked into. New dorm 
will be built in Parking Lot across from 
Margaret Morrison Plaza. Parking Lot 
proposed for Skibo will open this Summer. 
Plans for construction of new Physical Plant 
at Junction Hollow Hill that will cost an 
estimated $5,000,000.
Funding & Recognition :Tamal
Mukherjee Move to recognize the 'CM 
Stars as a non-funded organization open to 
students interested in playing soccer. Motion 
passed.
Public Relations:Nadine Flynn Issue 
concerning the publication of a news article 
about Student Senate in Tartan every week.
Rules:Allen Greenburg No report.
Old Business: None.
New Business: None.
Points of Discussion: Senator
Stachura: Proposal to write a letter to 
Alumni Committee about continuation of 
Annual Senior Banquet.
Senator Robitshek: Issue has already been 
discussed with Alumni Committee. There 
will no longer be a Formal Senior 
Banquet. Possibilty of 'Senior Picnic' 
instead.
Announcements:
PR meeting Feb 11, 7:00pm.
Academic Affairs meeting Feb 12,
4:30pm.
Campus Affairs meeting Feb 11, 6:30pm. 
Rules meeting Feb 14, 12:00pm.
Feb. 17 See Art Exhibit at Craig St. 
Gallery.
Meeting Adjourned 7:45pm.
Are Student Newspapers Subject to Censorship?
against Hazelwood High School, near Stcontinued from page 1
decision as yet The Texas Review, an 
alternative paper at the Univeristy of Texas 
at Austin, filed suit last month over the 
school's refusal to grant distribution 
privileges equal to those of the official 
school paper. The official paper, the Daily 
Texan, has supported the Reviews right to 
distribute freely.
The Student Press Law Center's Goodman 
says the results of the current suits will carry 
implications for all student papers, with the 
possible exception of private schools that 
have no state connection. However, a recent
decision at Boston University granted 
students the right to free expression in the 
form of hanging signs and banners under 
Massachusetts civil rights statutes. The 
ruling may have set a precedent for private 
school papers as well. "I would think that 
the logic easily extends to Hinted material," 
says Goodman.
A Jan. 20 decision by the U.S. Supreme 
Court, however, could carry a larger 
influence than any of these suits, according 
to Goodman  even if it deals with a high 
school paper. The court decided to hear a case 
next October brought by student editors
*
Our reputation stands for quality haircare and up to the minute styling...all at affordable prices. Our clients know. Just ask one.
TheThe
----------------------------------------------------------------------,
JUST-A-CUTDESIGNER PERMPRECISION CUT
only $25.00only $1 3.00only $8.00
Complete with written guarantee
Complete with shampoo and blow style
Cut only
MUST HAVE COUPON
j ~SAVE~$2.00
| on a
PRECISION HAIRCUT
Complete with shampoo & styling
o mffvM ec3NMvS
February 28, 1987
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED!
Great Styles Start at T
NiCtSSARY VRWI cxfecnmmsPRECISION HAIRCUT TERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
687-3500
near
Louis, MO. The case is the first Supreme 
Court case involving a student paper directly 
related to an institution, and will decide 
whether or not school officials have editorial 
control over publications tied to the school 
curriculum.
"This decision is going to have significant 
effect on college papers as well," says 
Goodman. What will a decision in favor of 
the students mean? "Simply put," says 
Goodman, "that as long as the paper is set 
up as a forum for student expression, 
complete First Amendment protection 
should apply."
photo by Demetri Patukas
Cupid appeared on the Cut
Saturday, making this Valentine's 
P?Y a mgmprafrl? on?t________________
TartanProduction Staff Meetings
Every Wednesday 
at 6:00pm 
in the Tartan Office
All
Layout people 
Ad people 
Proofreaders
Attend!
First meeting February 18 (tomorrow):
Important new production methods to be discussed and demonstrated.

---------------------------------------------------

eCNfgMN'W
Condom Ad Controversy Highlights Network Hypocrisy, Useless Taboos
It is a sad commentary on the implicit values of 
American culture that it took the spread of AIDS 
among the heterosexual population to bring the 
issue of contraceptive advertisements into the 
public eye. One million teen pregnancies each year 
and the threat posed to homosexual men by AIDS 
were not enough to prompt drastic action like the 
advertisement of condoms on television and in 
major publications.
Short of abstinence, condoms are generally 
accepted as the best protection against contracting 
AIDS. The incurable disease, which attacks the 
body's immune system, is often transmitted 
through sexual contact. Condoms do not provide 
absolute protection against the vkus, but in late 
1986, U.S. Surgeon General C. Everett Koop 
announced that they are the best available 
protection for those who do not abstain.
The New York Times, Time and Newsweek 
magazines and television stations like KRON-TV 
in San Francisco recently decided to accept 
condom ads. The ads are delicate in their treatment 
of sexual matters. Slogans like "I'll do a lot for 
love, but I'm not willing to die for it," spoken by 
concerned women, demonstrate that the ads 
emphasize the use of condoms by heterosexuals to 
prevent the spread of AIDS. This emphasis is a 
disappointing side-step of acknowledgement of 
other potentially controversial reasons to use 
condoms, but it is nonetheless a step in the right 
direction.
Unfortunately, several entities in the nation are 
openly or by default opposing the trend toward 
more openness about sex and its possible 
consequences. Those who actively oppose moves 
like the running of condom ads in print and on 
television base their opposition on several tenuous 
arguments. The bedrock of this position is a 
fallacious cause and effect supposition that 
condoms will promote promiscuity. But with 108 
pregnancies among every 1,000 teenage girls 
nationwide in 1983, we can surmise that many 
teens are already sexually active, despite the 
current lack of contraceptive advertisements in 
most media. Arguments based on saving young 
people from their own sexual drive are inherently 
naive. They may hold some relevance to the 
sheltered lives of suburban teens, but they 
definitely don't suffice in urban ghettos where 
teenage pregnancy and high rates of drug usage 
leading to AIDS are the most problematic.
The television networks are among those who 
oppose the current trend by default. They do not 
actively oppose the developments, but do so 
passively by not accepting condom ads. The 
networks' reasons for rejecting condom ads are 
weak and hypocritical. All three major networks 
have so far refused to run such ads on the basis 
that members of the viewing audience would be 
offended. In a manner reminiscent of the high 
school tease, the networks will go so far as to 
imply that people have sex all the time. They will 
not go all the way and discuss the realities of 
sexual involvement. Television suggests over 
20,000 sexual acts each year which do not result in 
pregnancy. Network executives are making some 
effort to deal with the realities of sex, but as long 
as they harbor such fear of offending the viewing 
audience, their treatment of the issue will not 
mature.
*
Letters:Senior Banquet Goers Feel 
Cheated by Immaturity of Peers
The following is an open letter to 
the Carnegie Mellon Senior Class. 
Dear Seniors:
Do you feel as cheated as I do? 
You should. Our senior banquet 
was supposed to have been a 
semiformal banquet. You know, 
the type adults go to all the time. 
It was supposed to have been 
dinner AND a program. 
Unfortunately, all we received was 
the dinner.
It is impossible to blame the 
Alumni Association, however. 
They moved the banquet offcampus to a beautiful place. It was 
held in one room which held all 
800+ people who attended. They 
also had a program all prepared. 
Hans Lang, a trustee of the 
university, was to welcome us to 
the Alumni Association as soon-tobe alumni and explain just what 
the association is and does. Anne 
Svedberg and Tim Lefebvre were to 
have sung a lot longer than they 
did. They gave up when it became 
obvious they weren't going to be 
able to overpower all the talking, 
yelling and moving around that 
was going on while they were 
trying to perform.
Yes seniors, you were cheated. 
Cheated by a minority of your 
classmates who have not learned 
that there is much more to life 
than yelling and screaming 
obscenities at the speakers 
(including their classmates Jim 
Denburg and Wendy Rovansek 
who were trying to propose a toast
to the entire class); vomiting under 
the tables because they were so 
drunk; throwing dinner rolls across 
the room; stealing wine carafes, 
dinners and desserts off the serving 
trays; not being able to walk to the 
buses afterwards because they were 
so drunk after stealing drinks all 
night; stealing dishes and glasses 
on the way out; and pulling the 
fire alarms. This list covers only a
small part of what went on that 
night.
The waitress who served my table 
said it best, I think. She said, "The 
community college graduated here 
last week and I used to think CMU 
was the cream of the crop."
Jean Biros 
Senior
Mechanical EngineerGenuine Objectivists Would Not Accept Government Funding
Editor:
In a final response to the defense, 
by a few members, of the 
Objectivist Club, in the February
3, 1987 issue, I will make three 
points.
1. If the "Objectivist Club" called 
itself "The Club for the Study of 
Objectivism," which it now claims 
to be, then it could legitimately 
apply for funding as an academic, 
rather than political, activity. 
Objectivism, as such, is a very 
influential social and political 
philosophy. It is much more than 
simply political philosophy and is 
much more than economic, unless 
you view sex as an economic 
activity. Objectivism has as much 
to do with optimizing your 
friendships as maximizing your 
market potential.
2. I stand by the essence of my 
view that genuine objectivists
would not accept student 
government funding. The 
particular, however, that I will 
revise regards the Activities Fee. 
The club could expect the 
cumulative total of their respective 
Activity Fees and not one penny 
more. An objectivist would never, 
but never expect a collective 
account to finance her or his 
academic pursuits.
3. The issue of whether Brian 
Crago's opinion-making was 
intended to be politically demean
ing stands unresolved. The 
emptiness of political editorial
izing and press opinion writing is 
familiar to me. When it is my 
wont to be ridiculous, I am 
ridiculous, as were Ayn Rand's 
characters Sebastian and Domin
ique, and as was Ms. Rand.
James M. Crary
Campus Ministry: Help at Critical Times
Editor:
The campus community has been 
touched by the recent homicide 
involving a CMU student. The 
members of the Campus Ministry 
Council understand the feelings of 
fear, anxiety, betrayal, shock and 
grief which have been generated by 
this tragedy. We wish all who 
sense the need to talk about their 
feelings to know of our 
availability and desire to offer 
concerned and confidential counsel.
We would also encourage students 
to avail themselves of the services 
provided by the CMU Counseling 
Center.
Rev. Beverly Aurand 
(682-6886) Lutheran
Paul Beattie Unitarian 
Rev. Andrew Cornes 
(621 -4361) Episcopal
Lee A. Darrington (1- 
228-8190) Church of Jesus Christ 
of Latter-day Saints
Fr. Robert English
(681-3181) Roman Catholic 
Oratory
Louise Henein (731 - 
9859) Orthodox Christian 
Fellowship
Rabbi Joseph Levine 
(621-8875) B'nai Brith Hillel 
Rev. Jim Miller (621- 
7798) Ecumenical Protestant
Rev. Thelma Mitchell 
(621 -0500) Baptist
Rev. Tim Solomon 
(681-0995) Presbyterian

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment 
Comics 
Classifieds 
Events
An all-American visionary in David Lynch
By CURT WOHLEBER
Special to the Tartan
Among those contending for this year's 
Academy Award for Best Director is David 
Lynch, who wrote and directed the 
controversial Blue Velvet. AB Sunday films 
will be presenting Lynchs three previous 
films, beginning February 22 with The 
Elephant Man.
Lynch is one of the most original 
filmmakers working in Hollywood today. 
Since the release of his low-budget cult 
classic Eraserhead in 1977, Lynch has 
divided critics and audiences by turning 
visual and narrative conventions upside 
down.
Lynchs work is characterized by a 
fascination with the grotesque and horrifying 
things that exist just beneath the surface of 
our lives. This is most explicitly 
demonstrated in the metaphorical opening 
scene of Blue Velvet, where the camera dives 
under a suburban lawn of green grass, 
flowers and a picket fence to reveal a 
subterranean world of crawling insects. His 
films are filled with disturbing but 
compelling images; characters are surrounded 
by vistas of decaying industry, smoke, 
steam, pipes, and the dull roar of distant 
machinery.
The 42 year-old Lynch grew up in Montana 
and originally harbored amibitions to be a 
painter. He began to make short films while 
attending art school in Philadelphia. The 
Grandmother, a 34 minute, 16mm film 
raised enough eyebrows to earn Lynch a 
grant from the American Film Institute to 
help finance his first feature-length film, 
Eraserhead.
Eraserhead (playing March 1) may be the 
weirdest movie ever made. Filmed in blackand-white on an almost nonexistent budget, 
Eraserhead discards narrative cohesion in 
favor of a succession of unsettling, dream
like images. Lynch's years living in one of 
the seedier neighborhoods of Philadelphia 
provided the inspiration for this tale of urban 
alienation. The nightmare world Lynch has 
created is our own world transformed by the 
unconscious  the violence and decay of city 
life crystallized in that restless limbo 
between late night and early morning.
The plot, such as it is, concerns one Henry 
Spencer, the nebbish denizen of an industrial 
wasteland, and follows his descent into 
oblivion. Its not an easy film to watch. 
Eraserhead moves slowly yet relentlessly, 
progressing with the fractured logic of 
dreams. Particularly disturbing are the scenes 
involving Henry's mutated, inhuman child. 
This wailing monstrosity alternately 
loathsome and pathetic, is the universal 
unwanted child. Even the "normal" characters 
in the film are too overwhelmed by their 
environment to be fully human. Voices are 
drowned out by industrial noise. Individuals 
are numb to the suffering of others.
Yet, after all that, Eraserhead is witty and 
even quite funny at times. Henry, with all 
his pens and his elevated flattop hairstyle 
(reminiscent of Elsa Lanchester in Bride of 
Frankenstein) is a New Wave nerd: the geek 
of the future. In one scene he imagines his 
severed head rolling into the street, where it 
>s picked up by a small boy, who sells the 
head to a shop that uses Henry's brain tissue 
to manufacture erasers for number 2 pencils. 
Eraserhead is sickening at times, at others it
is strangely comical, but throughout it 
exerts a hypnotic fascination that makes the 
film difficult to forget
The Elephant Man (February 22) was 
Lynch's first major studio picture, released in 
1980 to wide critical acclaim. Based on a 
true story, The Elephant Man recounts the 
life of John Merrick (John Hurt), a young 
man afflicted with neurofibromatosis, a 
disease that leaves him hideously disfigured 
and deformed. But beneath this repellent 
exterior is a noble individual, exploited and 
misunderstood by the world around him, 
reduced to starring in a one-man freak show, 
billed by his sadistic and unscrupulous 
employer as the "Elephant Man."
humanity and quiet dignity in the face of 
adversity.
The Elephant Man, like Eraserhead, was 
filmed in black-and-white and contains 
many of the same visual and aural motifs. 
Freddy Francis' exquisite cinematography 
captures 19th century London in the throes 
of the Industrial Revolution. Lynch's 
Victorian England is a world of brutality, 
squalor and exploitation as ugly and twisted 
as John Merrick's body - yet from this 
emerges a celebration of what is best in 
man, of dignity, courage and k>ve. It is 
Lynch's most moving film, and in many 
ways his best
Dune (March 15), a $52-million adaptation
David Lynch DH2210 Film Festival:
Elephant ManFebruary 22
EraserheadMarchi
Blue VelvetMarch 8
DuneMarch 15
For Merrick, salvation comes in the form 
of Frederick Treves (Anthony Hopkins), a 
physician who is professionally fascinated 
by Merrick's case. Treves displays Merrick 
to his medical colleagues  an irony here, as 
Treves is in his own way exploiting the 
Elephant Man in order to further his career 
(and later, when Merrick becomes the toast 
of Victorian high society, one strongly 
suspects this is merely a freak show of 
another kind).
But Treves eventually becomes Merrick's 
friend and protector as well as his doctor. In 
one poignant scene, Merrick asks Treves, 
with forced composure, "Can you cure me?" 
Treves responds bluntly: "No." The
interplay between Hurt and Hopkins is 
wonderful here. The characters themselves 
are role-playing, uneasily maintaining a 
facade of casual civility in a painful 
moment. Ultimately, Merrick triumphs over 
his misfortune. He is not cured, but he 
transcends his affliction with his inner
of the late Frank Herbert's popular science 
fiction epic, was a critical and financial dud. 
And for good reason. While Dune contains 
moments of visual brilliance, Lynch is 
clearly lost in his attempt to mold a 
sprawling story of intergalactic intrigue and 
a futuristic messiah into a coherent film.
What Lynch seems to be going after is a 
fusion of the Cecil B. DeMille-type Biblical 
epic and the Rash Gordon serials of the 
Thirties. Hence the purposely turgid diction 
of the actors and the use of deliberately 
anachronistic props. In terms of production 
design, we get a mishmash of neoRenaissance, art deco, and post-industrial 
funk, all of it murkily photographed. You 
have to respect Lynch's willingness to take 
chances; he works hard to defy the cliches 
and conventions of cinematic science fiction, 
but the film fails on so many basic levels. 
Lynch even fails to satisfactorily recreate 
Herbert's famous desert world. We get some 
shots of Mexican desert, some unconvincing
miniature work, and studio shots of fake 
rocks and imported sand. Lynch somehow 
makes the desert seem claustrophobic; he 
can't escape his urban consciousness. What 
was needed here was the sweeping, epic style 
of a David Lean, who evoked the heat and 
vastness of the Sahara so well in Lawrence 
of Arabia.
In Blue Velvet (March 8) Lynch returns to 
Earth.
Kyle Mac Lachlan (who starred in Dune) 
plays Jeffrey Beaumont, a college student 
who returns to his small home town of 
Lumberton to visit his father, who has been 
hospitalized by a stroke. Walking home 
from the hospital, Jeffrey finds a severed ear 
lying in a grassy field. He takes die ear to 
the police, but does some investigating on 
his own.
Aiding Jeffrey in his amateur sleuthing is 
his friend Sandy (Laura Dem), the sweetly 
innocent daughter of a police detective. 
Jeffreys investigation leads him to Dorothy 
Vallens (Isabella Rossellini, daughter erf 
Ingrid Bergman), a nightclub singer whose 
husband and son are being held hostage by 
the sinister Frank Booth (Dennis Hopper). 
Frank has some sort of Oedipus complex, 
and he subjects Dorothy to a chilling sequ
ence of sadomasochistic sexual humiliations.
Blue Velvet is Lynch's version of the 
coming-of-age story. The ailing of Jeffrey's 
father sets the stage for Jeffrey's sexual 
awakening. But, just as he finds the dark 
underside of his placid, Norman Rockwellesque town, he finds equally disturbing 
things going on inside himself. He is 
simultaneously shocked and intrigued by the 
world of drugs, crime and violence he 
discovers. After Dorothy finds Jeffrey hiding 
in her closet, she seduces him, and begs him 
to hit her. It seems that she likes being 
humiliated, and to his horror, Jeffrey finds he 
likes dishing it out Sandy and Dorothy 
represent opposite poles of sexual attraction.
For Lynch, darkness, decay and perversion 
are much more interesting than calm, 
continued on pafe I >10

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2The TartanFebruary 17,1987
Little controversy in this years Oscar nominations
By JOE FERUGGIA
Special to the Tartan 
On Wednesday, February 11, the Academy 
of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences 
announced its 59th annual Oscar 
nominations. There was little controversy 
over this year's awards compared to last 
year's. The big argument then was over the 
lack of a nomination for Steven Spielbergs 
direction of The Color Purple. This year 
people were probably just too tired to 
bother.
For the first time in the history of the 
Academy Awards the nominations were 
announced in Hollywood at 5:39 AM 
(Pacific time). The Academy wanted the 
nominations to be early enough to make the 
morning news programs. The Academy 
believes that the additional coverage will 
spark greater interest in the awards and boost 
the sagging ratings of the awards ceremony. 
And for all the hooplah, the actual 
nominations lasted only three minutes.
This year, two films tied for first place in 
the race for most nominations. Platoon, the 
critically acclaimed film which depicts the 
Viet Nam war through the eyes of a young 
soldier, and Room With A View, a story of 
life in an English family each garnered eight 
awards. Placing second with seven 
nominations each were Hannah and Her 
Sisters, Woody Allen's latest masterpiece, 
and The Mission, a film set in the South 
American jungles in the 18th century. 
Rounding out the top five nominees was 
Children of a Lesser God, which tells of the 
life and love of a young deaf woman. It 
received five nominations.
Some notable nominations included a best 
actor nomination for Paul Newman for his
portrayal of Fast Eddie Felson in The Color 
of Money. Newman first played Felson 16 
years ago and, though he has collected a 
total of seven Oscar nominations, has never 
won the award (though the Academy did give 
him an honorary award for lifetime 
achievement last year). William Hurt is 
trying to make it two-in-a-row with his 
nomination for best actor for his 
performance in Children of a Lesser God.
Interestingly enough, the other three 
candidates in the Best Actor category are all 
first time nominees. The most surprising of 
them, Dexter Gordon for Round Midnight, 
who has never acted in anything before.
Of the nominees for Best Supporting Actor 
the most interesting must be Dennis
Hopper. Hopper was nominated for his 
portrayal of an alcoholic in the film 
Hoosiers. Hopper received critical acclaim 
for his role in Blue Velvet, yet won for 
Hoosiers instead. In real life, Hopper was 
addicted to alcohol and drugs several years 
ago.
While this year's nominations were far 
from controversial, there were some 
interesting surprises: Jane Fonda was not 
expected to receive the Best Actress 
nomination for her performance in The 
Morning After. Blue Velvet was completely 
overlooked by the Academy, but it's director 
was nominated for Best Director. Finally, a 
film that received both critical and box office 
success, Stand By Me, was overlooked by
the Academy. Many feel that Rob Reiner 
should have received a Best Director nod for 
his work on that film.
If you study the list of nominees, you may 
find that you've never heard of some of the 
films mentioned. Films like Salvador or 
Room With a View basically went unnoticed 
in American theatres. If you're interested in 
seeing some top notch performances, you 
might want to keep an eye out for these 
films. With the nominations now 
announced, all of the Best Film nominees 
will be in release before awards night.
The 59th Annual Academy Awards 
Ceremony will air on ABC on March 30.
For a complete listing of all the major 
nominations see the facing page.
At Forbes:
Paintings and prints from Alan West and Mary Collins
By CHRIS CORRIGAN
Special to the Tartan
Well, here it is another Tuesday, and 
another anouncement about this week's 
show at the Forbes Gallery. This time 
we're going to be seeing some paintings 
and prints by Alan West and Mary 
Collins. Both artists' talents and 
expressive use of color will be the main 
draw to this one.
Alan, for example, will be showing 
some energetic paintings and prints that 
are really a delight to the viewer. His 
offerings include both two and three 
dimensional works. He feels that his 
works are field paintings. The viewer
gets the sense that the work goes beyond the 
canvas and can actually participate in the 
work. "My paintings aren't back drops, but 
rather they surround the viewer and involve 
him. This is more than evident in the three 
dimensional pieces. The colors are strong 
and there is a lot of positive energy the 
work.
West himself feels that he is trying to take 
the energy that he puts into his paintings 
and transfer it to the audience, a feat 
definitely worth looking into.
Also Mary Collins, artist, housewife and 
mother will be presenting her original art 
work. Like West's, Mary's work is loaded
with vibrant colors that come off the 
canvas and involve the audience. Her 
work bears many similarities to Alan's 
but it is more abstract than some of his 
more recent, figurative pieces.
So what the heck? Take some time out 
of your busy, mundane schedule and 
cruise up to the Forbes Gallery to see the 
new show. It runs from Tuesday, 
February 17 through Sunday, February 
22.
There is an opening at the gallery 
Tuesday night from 7:00pm to 9:00pm. 
The public is invited and refreshments 
will be served.
wsm%%%?#:::::::::::::::::::
EXCEPTIONAL TECHNOLOGIES
The Best of Tomorrow
Today
Engelhard helps make many of the products we use everyday even though the company name doesnt ap
pear on most of them. Engelhard products and technologies help make the cars we drive, clothing we wear, 
food we eat, homes and offices and plants where we live and work, telephones and computers that make us 
efficient, magazines and books we read, pharmaceuticals and vitamins that keep us healthy. The 
companys materials perform vital functions in a customers manufacturing process or serve critical purposes 
providing reliability, or giving a certain characteristic to the customers finished product. Thats why 
Engelhard is known as a Performance Products company. And why technology is so important in enabling 
the company to continue advancing the leading edge in quality to give us an advantage over competition by 
meeting the needs of customers in our markets. Engelhard is organized into two major operating divi
sionsSpecialty Chemicals and Specialty Metals.
ENGELHARD IS COMING TO CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY!
Reception on March 4, 1987 7-9P.M. at Ski bo Hall Room #12
Interviews on March 5, 1987 8:30A.M. - 5:00P.M.
Engelhard is a Fortune 200 company offering employment opportunities that are unparalleled. Our 18-month 
Graduate Development Program provides new graduates with an excellent balance of process/project orien
tation and hands-on experiences. At Engelhard, youll gain valuable exposure to a rotation of operations 
process, maintenance, R & D, and developmental assignments. Plus, you will enjoy an environment that is 
conducive to your professional growth. To learn more about the career opportunities available, plan to meet 
with our representatives on campus. Well show you how Engelhards exceptional technologies can bring
you the best of tomorrow... today!
ENSELHMSkntM3 >
WOT :**:%
si
Th eartn j**682rh-23 e1*n630I

---------------------------------------------------

February 17, 1987The TartanPage D3
From the Hip handles a delicate issue with style
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Entertainment Editor
I have to be honest, I did not go to see 
From the Hip with an open mind. From the 
previews and advertisements I thought this 
was just another typical bratpack movie 
that was full of style but little substance. 
After I went and saw for myself, I found out 
that From the Hip has bountiful portions of 
style and subtance. Finally, a movie starring 
a brat packer, Judd Nelson, with more on its 
mind than just monetary gain. In fact, since 
I was practically the only person in the 
theater, profits may have been the last thing 
on its mind.
Don't let the fact that the film is doing 
poorly at the box office scare you away. 
From the Hip is one of a rare breed of 
comedies that have deeper purpose. From the 
Hip shows, by employing humor, that our 
legal system is flawed, yet more often than 
not, it works.
Judd Nelson plays Robin Stormy 
Weathers, anaggresive, first-year attorney 
looking for his first case. He schemes his 
way into a petty assault and battery case 
which seems unwinnable. You guessed it, 
Nelson wins the case, but not without 
attracting national media attention because 
of his courtroom demeanor. He manages to 
get the judge to allow him to argue about 
the admissiblity of the term ass in a court 
of law.
After his victory, he is made a partner in a 
firm. But all is not as it seems. It turns out, 
that all the clever comments in Weathers 
first case were scripted in collaboration with 
his opponent. To make matters worse, he 
has been assigned to defend a man charged
with murder. The cards are stacked against 
him due to the fact that the murder weapon 
and the victim's blood stains are found in his 
clients car. He is expected to once again, win 
the unwinnable, but this time it's for real.
Doing what he can with the doomed case, 
Weathers puts together a tight defense. 
Although his obligation under the law is to 
provide his client with the best defense, 
Weathers has his doubts about his clients 
innocence. Wonderfully portrayed by John 
Hurt, the defendant, Douglas Benoit, boasts 
about his superior intellegence, and Weathers
about the case. He jumps from psychotic to 
serene in a matter of minutes. One minute 
he acts as if he knows nothing 
of the crime, the next he is describing the 
horror of what the victim must have felt.
Director Bob Clark chooses to tackle this 
issue in a lighthearted tone. The court scenes 
are often hiliarious. Nelson is charming and 
funny as he rants and raves through the 
procedings. His antics open our eyes and 
force us to see what the real facts are.
Here is where the film is at its finest 
Clark's directing gives the scenes a
comfotable pace. Much of the the movie's 
comic timing comes from ingenius 
courtroom dialogue. Screenwriters Clark and 
David E. Kelly (a practicing attorney) create 
hilliarious situations at every turn.
From the Hip may not be on the level of 
Orson Welles' The Trial, but it brings up 
important issues with a great deal of flavor 
for the unorthodox. It is this dash of humor 
that makes it a fun experience, and it is the 
film's intelligent treatment of the 
foundations of our legal system that make 
the film a learning experience as well.
59th Academy Award Nominations
Best Picture
Platoon
A Room With A View 
Hannah And Her Sisters 
The Mission
Children Of A Lesser God
Best Director
David Lynch, Blue Velvet 
Woody Allen, Hannah And Her Sisters 
Oliver Stone, Platoon 
Rolland Joffee , The Mission 
James Ivory, A Room With A View
Best Actor
Paul Newman, The Color Of Money 
Dexter Gordon 'Round Midnight 
Bob Hoskins, Mona Lisa 
William Hurt, Children Of A Lesser God 
James Woods, Salvador
Best Actress
Jane Fonda, The Morning After 
Sissy Spacek, Crimes Of The Heart 
Marlee Matlin , Children Of A Lesser God 
Kathleen Turner, Peggy Sue Got Married 
Sigourney Weaver, Aliens
Best Supp. Actor
Michael Caine , Hannah And Her Sisters 
Denholm Elliot, A Room With A View 
Dennis Hoppe, Hoosiers 
Willem Dafoe, Platoon 
Tom Berenge , Platoon
Best Supp. Actress
Piper Laurie, Children Of A Lesser God
Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, The Color Of Money
Maggie Smith , A Room With A View
Diane Weist, Hannah And Her Sisters
Tess Harper, Crimes Of The Heart
7:00 p.m., Wednesday, February 18,1987
Kresge Theatre - College of Fine Arts
Admission Free with CMU I.D. Seating Unreserved 
Reservations Required - 268-2407
....-.......................
Presented by the College of Fine Arts 
Akram Midani, Dean
Scenes and Songs by ERIC BENTLEY 
Arranged and Directed by Maxim Mazumdar
Music by Arnold Black, Brad Burg, Joseph Kosma and Jacques Offenbach

---------------------------------------------------

Page D4The TartanFebruary 17, 1987
Ask Bruce: Win Radio Days tickets and Joe Bob revealed
Ok, this is it The first installment of Ask 
Bruce. What exactly is Ask Bruce you ask? 
Well Ask Bruce is a weekly column in 
which you, the Tartan reader, have a chance 
to win free stuff (movie passes, concert 
tickets, T-shirts, and more). All that you 
have to do is write in and ask me questions. 
These can be stumpers (Who played Toto in 
The Wizard of Ozf) or they can be easy ones 
(What was the Skipper's full name on 
Gilligan's Island?.). The only requirement 
that I ask is that the questions must pertain 
to entertainment in some form. If I use your 
question in the column you're a winner. But 
wait there is more. Each week I will ask a 
trivia question and if you are one of the 
lucky few who answer correctly, then you 
win a prize. The exact number that few 
equals will varry from week to week, 
depending on how many goodies I get and 
what the prize is will depend on what kind of 
goodies they are. Enough explaining, let's 
get on with the business at hand.
Since this is the first time for this column, 
I had to make up my own questions. Yeah, I 
know it's a cop-out, but it will only happen 
this once, I promise.
It's Oscar Nominations time again and 
what better than a few Academy of Motion 
Picture Arts and Sciences questions for 
cocktail chatter? Well, here goes...
Paul Newman has once again been 
nominated for Best Actor. He has been 
nominated five times, but has never won the 
award. Personally I don't think he will win 
this year - Dexter Gordon was too good and 
so was William Hurt. But anyway, I thought 
it would be interesting to trace who beat out 
Newman for the award in his previous
attempts. I never thought it would 
be so difficult. It was hard enough to find 
two biographical listings that agreed. And 
none of them listed what films he was 
nominated for, only the year. Anyway, this 
is the best I could do. If anyone finds any 
errors please send me a note and you will 
win a free King Kong Lives T-Shirt (I know 
it was a bad movie, but it's a great T-shirt 
and it's free). Shirt courtesy of Pittsburgh 
Film Promotions Company.
The Young Philadelphians in 1959 
Charlton Heston, Ben Hur 
From the Terrace in 1960 
Burt Lancaster, Elmer Gantry 
The Hustler in 1961 
Maximillian Schell, Judgement at Nurem
berg
HUD in 1963 
Sidney Poitier, Lilies of the Field 
The Verdict in 1983 
Robert Duvall, Tender Mercies
The next question is: What studio has won 
the most best picture Oscars? Since the 
Oscars began in 1928, the award for best 
picture has been won by ten studios. Here 
they are...
Columbia (11)
United Artists (11)
MGM (9)
Paramount (8)
20th Cent. Fox (7)
Warner Bros. (4)
Universal (4)
RKO Radio (2)
Rank Two Cities (1)
Orion (1)
And the final Oscar question is an easy 
one: What is the only picture(s) to win Best 
Picture, Director, Actor, and Actress?
It Happened One Night in 1934 and One 
Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest in 1975.
Ok, now here is the fun part - it's time for 
this week's give-away question. The 
prize this week is a free pass for two to see 
Woody Allen's new movie, Radio Days. The 
movie is in Monroeville and it's on this 
Wednesday. That's right, see Woody Allen's 
film a day before anyone else in the city and 
for free (the film offically opens in 
Pittsburgh on Thursday). Tickets are 
courtesy of Kahn and Associates Public 
Relations. The question is an easy one:
What musical instrument does Allen play?
To win you must come down to the Tartan 
Office (in the basement of Skibo, Room 50) 
and put your entry in my mail box. The first 
five correct answers win a pass. Slide your 
entry under the door if no one is here. In case 
of a tie, I will determine the winner at 
random.
One final note. Many people have been 
asking about Joe Bob Briggs. Questions and 
comments like who is he? why does the 
paper carry him? why won't you get rid of 
him? and the like have been asked of me. I 
will now set the record straight.
Joe Bob is actually a psuedonym for John 
Bloom. Bloom went to Vanderbuilt 
University and won the school's top 
journalism prize. He went to work at the
Dallas Times-Herald after college. While 
working as a regular film critic, he came up 
with the idea for Joe Bob. It was intended to 
be the antithesis of Pauline Kael and Vincent 
Canby of the New Yorker and The New 
York Times, respectively. Bloom was later 
fired from the Times-Herald for a Joe Bob 
column that poked fun at USA For Africa. 
Joe Bob is syndicated in over 700 
newspapers nationwide. He appears in 
respected, professional papers such as the 
Cleveland Plain Dealer and the San 
Francisco Tribune. He is most popular 
among the college newspapers and that is 
why we are paying for his column.
Oh, by the way you can sample the two 
faces of Joe Bob on page D9.
Remember:
If you have a 
question for 
Bruce, send it to:
Ask Bruce 
c/o The Tartan 
Box 17 
Carnegie Mellon 
Pgh, PA 15213 
or call 268 - 2111
Carnegie Mellon Drama
STUDIO THEATRE
presents
n IrMg
an MFA production directed by Anne Miyamoto
Monday, February 16 at 8:30 p.m.
Tuesday, February 17 at 8:30 p.m. 
Wednesday, February 18 at 5:00 p.m. and 8:30 p.m. 
in the Studio Theatre
ADMISSION IS FREE
1987
Carnegie Mellon Summer Programs
ACADEMIC PREPARATION
FOR EDUCATIONAL ADVAN C EJVIE 1ST T
PRE-COLLEGE PROG RAM 
IN THE FINE ARTS
Summer 
Counselor 
Positions
We are currently seeking highly qualified and motivateti students for 
full-time counselor positions for "th summer Pre-College/APEA program.
Avallatole 
at tine Housing Office :
Applications Due :
Optional Interest 
Sessions at SKIBO 13, 9 : OOpm
February 9th
20th
February lOth February 12th
For further information please stop 
by one of the Interest Sessions or 
contact the Housing Office at x2139

---------------------------------------------------

The President's 
Distinguished Lecture Series 
Presents
"Why Americans are Confused about Anger: A New Perspective on Emotion."
Carol Zisowitz Steams and 
Peter N. Steams
Thursday, February 26, 1987 
4:30pm
Wherrett Room 
Skibo Hall
Carnegie Mellon University
In the past, anger was accepted in certain places, but now it is an emotional arena that is repressed more than ever before. "Anger is not accepted in today's society," says Peter Steams. "Not in the workplace, not in the family, not even in politics. We're much more restricted than previous generations."
In their recent book, "Anger: The Struggle for Emotional Control in America's History," Carol and Peter Steams trace the 200-year struggle for emotional control in America's history. The book offers an entirely new approach to the study of emotion.
Carol Zisowitz Steams, M.D., has a private practice in psychiatry and is clinical instructor in psychiatry at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine. She also holds a Ph.D. in history. Peter N. Steams is the Heinz professor and department head of history at Carnegie Mellon University.

---------------------------------------------------

yes, but rrfvesNT d&rr MHOwmep10 KEITH
PRECIPSON
W KNOW,IHYPERVENTILATE
HCAU Tye OIT7 HINES UKE
RCIRN
LXA^POYOU
CsU,TbeEbeuS
STANP BEINE 
MARR1EP TV A...*0o/N6err
1SUPPOSE IT BEATS BEINO 
MARRJEP 
TO A've/mwm^K.
Inkspots
Ta ak of~(hngerous expec tation hanes hem /vTHE OFF MS OF THE MfEHTY BLOOM PICAYUNE. .
B
IT WHS FINALLY TIME FOR A TRTJCY 
FRANK ARTICLE ON THE PUBLIC 
HEALTH THREAT Of AM.. ANP 
CHIEF EPim ARMANO PtPTHONE 
KNEW THAT WHAT H!5 REAPERS 
NEEPEP MS. BRUTALLY EXPUCTT 
J^BK SEXUAL APACE..
cornee,
rtnnNNN
SLOW N' 
EASY... 
YOU CAN00 IT...
7T5 WISE TO AMP (THE "/ 
WORP)OR(lHE'A'WORP) 
WTTH {THE 1H'WORP) IN 
ETTHER Hid OR HER ( THE 
*AWORPH) AFTER 
(THEXWORP) WTIHOUT 
ABRPNPNAME (X'WORP).*
HERE'S THE *AIPS ANP PUBUC HEALTH*STORY. 
1..J1RTEP10BEAS Is EXPUaT AS POSSIBLEmiWAFFLtNEewsE dwE i 
otSf toy /
YOU'REWAFFUNO.
w--------nYOUR FREQUENT USE \OF THE TERM 1INTIMATE ZCONTACT" HAS LEFT FLSTM OF OUR
RENTERS I 2=-
tHOAr fv10KN g*
I I 
fLnI mm,MRS. YOU MAY CON-PtLUJHtPPtE TNUE TO SAFELY COULP KISS YOUR CATWELL use "M*ms~FULL AUTKE ON THE UPS..
EXPUCTTNESS 1 INHERUFE.
BOSS... ITHNK WAYS AIPS STORY WAS 100 WISHY-WASHY, A USUALMRS.PfUWHtPPLEIS0N1HEPHONE.OiNJXC*FKf G IT sack: 
we*e\ GUYS.
BUT NO MATTER / EM AS I SPEAK,COPY BOY MILO IS ? FETVHtNb VARWS k OFFENSIVE ANP
EMBARRASS/NO 7X 'MRPSFFma*? 
ip0 FOR&PPEN-MZP 
VAULT 10 MAKE 
\ , 1HS STOFZY A \\ REAJTY."
ATTENTION, ENERTBOPf!
I HATE JUST SUCCEEPEP 
IN WRfflNE A SHOCKMECy 
f BLUNT STORY ON SEX ANP PUBUC HEALTH.
BRACI YOURSELVES.
WE MAY WELL LOSE ALL 
TV SUBSCRIPTIONS OF THE1'LAPtES' CHURCH MUFFIN CLUB.DDuetomi
I suPfoi
MCEOS I
tME Y&fl
A Putrypus dAMPHIBIOUS. 
1\E GOT T<3 SPEAlO SoAjf 
srbak /AJ Wf ,tTeho d
OTHERS, OF A MORE SENSITIVE CONSTm/TlON,... PIP NOTYES, MOST JUST 100KTM OFFENSIVE WORPS ANP EMBARRASS**? ANATOMICAL REFERENCES FULLY IN STRIPE.
AS EXPETEP, THE ENTIRE MEM - 
BERSHIP OF THE 'LAPIES'CMJRCH 
MUFFTN CUJB'CANCEUP THEIR 
SUBSCRIPTIONS. THE REFUBUC, 
IN 6ENEKAL, REMA/NEP STWNO, 
HOWEVER
1HE STORY ON SEX ANP PUBLC 
HEALTH APFEAREP IN THE NEXT 
MORNMES PICAYUNE... EXPLICIT, 
YET INFORMATIVE.
vyyy>
,gjNL&
nimmk ,m-tupProvided by SOC*_ nvMIv nMv'f4vC

---------------------------------------------------

Human Equationsby D. Dobbs
by Kurt Shaw
Mi Pt*A> VICB look
Dribble
So LET'S DO SCX^ETHihCj fV8o^r\r! WHM-jso ^oo-^
TWMC WE SHOULD Dot --
yDRUEDRMI wefMB<aiDo LAlocUa Heec.1 Rm 3usr noA Dw IVJ^.r\VK,0UC.UYE5
fem*. > THINK VoURE 
1?AHT ftBOOTTMW.
Nollem Eigenracby Mike McHugh with Joe Ferrugia
HOU P**e iOU CMC THe 
Fennuess cenvcR op thsoot er sotseo r LET'SD 5acKiW6 luie&p'!?!?rn&UEl--. ABC 12-zoom
S&uMtnMKPS
THtSVItm
TICK!
SM&5H! CAM THE 7*KAJ0*
UH... 
UOW \\
HRDE N USSR
iranoski
ttJ (R( CaMCQ, 
MAT AJ<3lIt
ainCpc o
A Look Withinby Kneep Debends
M>/ I don't 
under sianeI it So I Chnt use. H.
You dont have to Noi! I don'tunderstand i{ F0r wa*t H and to ouorfc jrijOU.. flot only that 
Hen ^00. 90. X hate uou. for
V ra hav,"!J
JoTTCPlSH
A PLATYPUS 
JACTOCJ ?
'otjes o.\
Zoger the Vortonby Bob Glickstein
1 ~Z0G*S CORHCR 1Yu0CSbRV RCA AtLu skmb,
FORMS AN ALLIANCE WITH
RCA e vi L OSIEA Xu^AU 5 orbit/a/^ AIPRCB
THE VEAL: FLEHPT HELPS 
alo verocm rcpreausao 
i& ki&ft rp aloD nwfh 
twfSWw& diBw& Ti FfwnhiTA
cronoSfci
St*.y CLIP THIS 
MUL *tV ptT IT
in th 8VY8-S6*R 
AcONfr Rnwh 43*r #*U cA*D 
xwtm yout nahE",_JPM0*C WWHB"R, 
AMO * OilCtlPTiOd, iW iOCCXC ^C LHiih jr wwy
 SHOOit) Se-? pinkfRwith rou* rue yoffrou
&uu.s e**-0TMI DATr WITH ZO$R 
coht%t!
TA TANM'N tOOH *rwsiof*

---------------------------------------------------

If youve ever gotten a pizza that was cold, or late, or just not right, you've had a close encounter with the NOIDT 
The NOID loves to ruin your pizza. You can avoid 
the NOID: Call Domino's Pizza. You get Fast, Free Delivery1" of our quality pizza in less than 30 minutes. Domino's Pizza Delivers9 the hot, delicious NOID-proof pizza. 
One call does it all!
681-1700315 N. Craig St.
521-2970
623 Greenfield Ave.
Our Ormar carry ntc ket >2000 IMM dtfhwry m 1966 Oominos Pizza. Inc.
$2.00 off any 16" one 
item or more pizza One coupon per pizza Expires; 3/8/87
r'&ol rMD sfWW1fM_9 .ggC 'f WgL'fNg8& WN&fvC
CjHAjDf {HLLT CegHsePf iPeeS

---------------------------------------------------

February 17, 1987The TartanPage D9
95 feet tall gill-people in The Kindred
By JOE BOB BRIGGS
prive-In Movie Critic
A long time ago, in my fifth past life, I 
was an Indonesian bamboo stripper named 
Felix and I worked for the Rajah of Punjab. I 
got 340 magpies for working a 16-hour day, 
but I didn't mind because at night I would 
get to go home to my clay hut and play with 
my pet weasel. The weasel's name, of 
course, was Shirley MacLaine.
"Shirley," J would say, "what were you 
before you were a weasel?"
And Shirley would say, "Moogl moogl 
moogl."
This is the only sound a weasel can make.
So then I would go and get the village 
witch doctor, Clarence the Witch Doctor, and 
Clarence would come over and stuff Shirley 
into an earthen jar and bang on the side until 
it was revealed to Clarence who the weasel 
was in his past life, and on some nights 
Ramtha would come out of the jar and we'd 
shoot the breeze talkin about what a bummer 
it was that you can't understand, what those 
people from Atlantis are sayin cause they 
have so much water in their lungs, and then 
sometimes, if we were real lucky, Ramtha 
would charge us 4,800 magpies an hour (300 
modem dollars) and predict the future.
"Someday this weasel will have many jerk 
boyfriends," said Clarence in broken 
Indonesian. And then there was a mighty 
whoosh of wind and Ramtha jumped out and 
said, "Yeah, but she can take five gross 
points and a back-end pay-or-play talent 
contract on the miniseries rights."
And then Ramtha went into this long deal 
about how this wasn't just any ordinary 
weasel. Someday this weasel would put on a 
canary-yellow jumpsuit and run around
pinnin Jerry Lewis against the wall and 
plantin kisses all over his face. And then 
after that the weasel would put on some pink 
underwear and start kickin the backside of 
Juliet Prowse's dress in "Can-Can." And 
then after that she would join the Rat Pack a 
make a bunch of movies where she gets to 
scrunch up her eyes and squeal a lot. And 
then she'd go to Tibet and sit on top of a 
mountain and not shave her legs for a week. 
And then she'd buy a place in Malibu and 
put in a hot mineral bath where she could 
meditate about life and how much she can't 
stand Debra Winger. And then she'd go to 
South America and start yellin out "I am 
God, I am God," until somebody snatched up 
the paperback rights, and then , of course, 
she'd be one of the great spiritual leaders of 
herself of all time.
After I finish rammin 17 punji sticks 
through the weasel's throat and watchin it die 
a long, slow, agonizing death, Ramtha 
promised me all the danger was gone. All I 
had to do was remember one simple thing: 
Never EVER allow the weasel to perform 
"Steam Heat" in Vegas.
If that ever happens, Ramtha said, he 
would NOT be responsible for the 
consequences.
Speaking of sudden, messy deaths of 
terrifying creatures, "The Kindred" has more 
gopher-gut-spewing than any movie put out 
in recent years, and may be the all-time 
Slime Champion. What we got here is Rod 
Steiger as a crazy doctor who likes to cross 
human cells with giant jellyfish cells and see 
what he gets. What he gets is a whole 
hospital full of zombie gill-people with 
faces like squashed taco salad. Every time
Shed light onthe matter
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING
SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY  7 - 10 p.m.
CALCULUS PH126A
(Pro, 1. Tl, 111)
PHYSICS PH1260
CHEMISTRY PH126C
ACADEMIC WRITING PROBLEMS PH 125B
FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING ECONOMICS PH 226B 
ECONOMICS PH 226C
INTRO. TO COMPUTING WEH 5415
f*6hzR8! _3 ^6rhzRn-ho th! f2r!Rh2 CRkRn6*1Rh2 ^Rh2R8 
C-k-z-6h 6n f2r!Rh2 Tllt-80
somebody dies in a car wreck, the ambulance 
driver brings em to Rod while the ticker is 
still pumpin so he can splice some more 
land sharks together.
Unfortunately, Kim Hunter knows what 
he's doing. Remember Kim? "STELLA! 
STELLA!" That Kim? Well, now she's 
REAL old and so shes layin around in 
Intensive Care waitin to die, only first she 
wants her son, the handsome young wimp 
doctor, to go and destroy all her journals and 
experiments out in the house where Anthony 
lives.
"Who's Anthony?" the son says.
"Your brother," she tells him. Only he 
DON'T HAVE A BROTHER.
So then the doctor and a bunch of scientists 
go out to the house to see who Anthony is 
 and they find out Anthony is livin in the 
cellar, and he's about 95 feet tall and looks 
like a giant octopus with herpes, and when 
you make him mad he sprays white donkeypus right in your eyes. Course, they don't
find out till there's three extremely painful 
TV dinners for Anthony, includin one 
British lady who gets turned into a frothmouthed alligator gar, but fortunately there's 
one thing that'll make Anthony go away: 
Liquid Drano.
Genetic DNA Fu. Two breasts, sort of. Six 
dead bodies. One dead Audi. Two motor 
vehicle chases, with two crash-and-bums. 
Fish kiss. Watermelon attack. Vicious fetusmonkey attack. Ambulance-driver eatin. 
Lizard-tail dog-eating. An 82 on the Vomit 
Meter. IV Fu. Gill Fu. Liquid Drano Fu. 
Drive-In Academy Award nominations for: 
Talia Balsam, as the girlfriend, for sayin "I 
don't have time; right now I have to finish 
this dissertation"; Amanda Pays, as the evil 
devil girl, for sayin "Let's drink to memories 
that don't get made"; Anthony, the slimehead monster, for being named after Kim 
Hunter's favorite saint; and Rod Steiger, for 
sayin "You can't kill him! You can't destroy 
this creature! He's your brother!" Four stars.
A tribute to Joe Bobs first editor
By JOHN BLOOM
Syndicated Columnist
Ron Smith died last week. He was Joe 
Bobs first editor and the unnamed "high 
sheriff that Joe Bob made fun of for 3 1/2 
years. Ron was a world traveler, widely read, 
who loved a good book or a good movie 
almost as much as he hated the U.S. Navy, 
which controlled his life for a time in the 
'50s. He despised pretense, affectation and 
dishonesty, but he was too much of a 
gentleman to express himself with more 
than a sort of mild amusement at the follies 
of others.
He loved to tell the story of the Times 
Herald editor, attempting to name a new 
section of the Sunday newspaper, who asked 
the question, "Can't we find out the 
FRENCH word for 'unique'?" Ron was the 
interviewer who got Dino De Laurentiis to 
say of "King Kong," "When monkey die, 
everybody cry. He was a sports writer in 
Philadelphia in the '60s ana had so many 
unprintable stories about Wilt Chamberlain 
that I would sometimes say, "Ron, tell me 
something else about Wilt." And he never 
let me down. And Ron was so attuned to Joe 
Bob's style of thinking that he contributed 
ideas that shaped many of the early columns. 
His proudest invention was the name of Joe 
Bob's second girlfriend, "Cherry Dilday."
Ron was the l imes Herald's appointed 
censor of Joe Bob, and it was a painless 
procedure. The weekly meeting took place 
on Wednesday mornings. Ron would say, 
"John, we need to go easy on the breast 
references for a while." This was usually 
code for, "The publisher complained." Then 
the comer of Ron's mouth would curl into a 
slight smile. "Four or five weeks maybe, 
until they stop watching us again."
Ron and I had an agreement. If he said it 
had to come out, it came out  
automatically, no questions. In return, I got 
to rewrite the excised portion, usually by 
sticking in a derogatory remark about the 
"high sheriff." This system was based on our 
common idea about how Joe Bob's mind 
worked  that is, he always EXPECTED to 
be persecuted, so no amount of persecution
could ever genuinely harm him as long a he 
got to complain about it. The dangerous 
guys, Ron always said, were the ones who 
edit SECRETLY.
Ron felt most of the fears and ambitions 
and marketing plans and deeply held beliefs 
of newspapermen were silly. He believed in 
spending money on one thing  employees. 
When the budgets were rewritten each year, 
Ron was always the best friend of the 
reporter and the copy editor. And if he 
couldnt get the cash for you in salary, he'd 
get it on fringe benefits  because he also 
hated seeing people getting wealthy at the 
top of an organization that was staffed by 
underpaid employees. Ron fought all these 
wars quietly, though. He was timid in many 
ways, and quarreling and office politics never 
failed to make him nervous. He was usually 
pleased with whatever job he was doing, and 
put his hopes and expectations in his wife 
and son, never in his own "career path."
He died of a heart attack right after 
interviewing for a job as editor of a 
newspaper in Bristol, Conn. Except for 
being the home of ESPN, his favorite 
television channel, he probably wouldn't 
have cared whether he got the job or not. 
Ron had very few idols in this world, as he 
certainly didn't make an idol of the 
newspaper business, as most of us do.
When "Joe Bob Goes to the Drive-In" was 
kicked out of the Times Herald, Ron was the 
only Times Herald editor to express a 
continuing interest in the column. The last 
time I saw him was at an Italian restaurant 
in North Dallas. He appeared out of 
nowhere, at the edge of my table, smiling 
nervously. "I'm probably not supposed to 
talk to you anymore, " he said. (He was 
always sensitive to the opinions of his 
bosses.) "I saw you over here. I started to 
leave. (His voice caught for a second.) "I 
couldn't leave."
I don't cry very easily, but I started to tear 
up. I told him I was glad he didn't leave. He 
put his hand on my shoulder and we 
embraced. Then, like most grown men, we 
were instantly embarassed. He had to leave 
quickly. He was gone.
r
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
Li
COUPON
? ? Our Gang Pizza ? ? 
$2.00 OFF
Large 2 Item Pizza
62270004523 Centre Avenue, 
Sun -Thurs 11am 
Expires 2/28/87 Fri - Sat 11 am -
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
iand I
* ,

---------------------------------------------------

Page DIOThe TartanFebruary 17,1987
Classifieds
-----  Jobs/Wanted =
STUDENTS: Work for Social Change!
Turn classroom philosophy into ACTION by 
campaigning for enforcement of 
environmental laws.
CLEAN WATER ACTION PROJECT 
765-3053
Immediate opening with paid training 
program. Career opportunities with national 
citizens' lobby. Earn $180+ bonus/week. 
Train part-time now to work full-time in 
summer. EOE.
Can you teach? Princeton Review SAT 
Prep Course is looking for quick intelligent 
fun people to teach high school kids. Very 
fun job, very good pay. Contact Virginia 268- 
4873 (after 1 p.m.).
Work part-time on campus to organize 
students for enforcement of environmental 
laws. Politically minded and articulate people 
needed. Time management skills a must. 
Flexible hours. $25/day + bonus for qualified 
applicants. Call Anne Thomas at Clean Water 
Action 765-3053.
Summer Camp Counselors needed for 
Brother/Sister camp in Waynesboro, PA: 
Positions available for men and women in : 
Arts & Crafts, Photography, Ham Radio, 
Science, Rocketry, Riflery, Archery, 
Swimming, Lake Front, Nature, Gymnastics, 
Tennis, Theatre, Piano, and all sports 
activities. Also needed: Unit Leaders, Pool & 
Lake Director. Write Camp Director, 1 
Newtown Woods Rd., Newtown Square, PA 
19703 or phone (215) 353-0981.
Q-Pro-4: Looking for Q-Pro-4 DBMS
Programmer to work on small consulting 
project. 621-66%, M&M Grant Associates.
Cruise Ship Jobs Domestic & overseas
now hiring kitchen help, deck hands, maids,
gift shop sales, summer & career
opportunities. Call (206) 736-2972, ext.
C355.
Systems Analyst/Data Manager
Western Psychiatric Institute: Clinic, a
division of the Univ. of Pgh., is currently 
seeking a systems analyst/data manager. 
Responsibilities include overseeing data flow 
for 2 large longitudinal psychiatric research 
projects, defining project needs for data 
entry, storage and analysis, and overseeing 
and interpreting analytical results. 
Qualifications include a background in 
psychological or biomedical reasearch or 
statistics and a Masters plus knowledge of 
Vax system 1022X, BMDP, SPSS, SPSS-X. 
We offer a competitive starting salary 
w/excellent benefits. Interested applicants 
please send resume to Personnel Admin., 
Western Psychiatric Institute: Clinic, 3811 
OHara Street, Pgh, PA 15213. No phone 
calls, please.
 Housing =====
Living off campus? Will you be moving 
at the end of this school year? If so, will you 
please give your landlord's name and address 
and/or phone number to the Housing Office? 
We would like to secure the space for CMU 
people. Phone x2139.
House for sale  owner, 156 Oakview 
Ave., Edgewood, $84,900. 8 rooms, 2 1/2 
baths, wooded lot, convenient transportation. 
On-street parking. Colonial, about 70 years 
old. Large living room, dining room (beamed 
ceiling and kitchen 12x8, small den, 4 
bedrooms. Shown by appt 371-6887.
Shadyside, No. Oakland. Furnished one
bedroom, w/w carpeting, fully equipped
kitchen, laundry facilities, off-st parking,
balcony, resident custodian. Negotiable lease.
621-0636.
Shadyside apartment Bright 1-bedroom 
w/w carpeting, safe, convenient to buses and 
laundromat Available immediately. $285 + 
utilities. 441-0848 or 441-9985.
For rent 1 bedroom in luxury Shadyside 
apartment. Available immediately
$220/month. Call Mike at x3139 or 681- 
3806.
Shadyside studio efficiency, bright, 
large closets, equipped kitchen, work-in 
kitchen, laundry, heat included, w/w carpet. 
Short-term lease available. $230 + el. 621- 
0636.
Available April 1st: 3-BR townhouse
less than 5 min. walk from CMU. LR, DR, 
fully equipped kitchen, w/w, AC. $600/mo + 
util. Call Janaki Sakella 687-7820 (home) 
268-6643 (office).
Shadyside 
September rental
Effec.  1 bedroom, w/w carpet, A/C. 661- 
6622.
== Typing Services -- ----
Napaloen Office Services: Resumes/
Word Processing/ Writing Services/ Mailing 
List/ Typing/ Pick-up & Delivery/ 
Bookkeeping? Graphics.. .462-7109.
Services ===
MINUTE-MAIDS For all your house
keeping needs. Trained; Insured; Bonded, 
serving Pgh for 6 years. 682-3860.
"For the best in maids"
Little Ducklings Day Care, a better way 
to serve you. Ages 1-3. 5447 Bartlett Street, 
Squirrel Hill 521-7272.
Having a party? Don't have the time? 
Hors d'oeuvres, dessert & party trays. 
Satisfaction guaranteed. Catering services 
also avail. 261-0726 for info.
Safe, Permanent Hair Removal by
licensed Electrologist. Call Evie Wasosky at 
521-6234 after 5:00 for appointment or FREE 
CONSULTATION.
We satisfy the urge! Professional 
tattooing since 1973. Custom & Cover-ups 
are our specialty. Sterile, high detail, bright 
colors. Total privacy is assured. Bodyworks 
Design Studio, Mon. thru Sat 10 a.m. to 8 
p.m. Call for appointment 731-3462.
-....... = AUtOS ===-;
76 Ford Granada - 4 door, 6 Cyi 
automatic transmission, PS/PB, A/C, AMFM Cassette. Clean, reliable, and seeks new 
home. Call Mark @ 621-6572 days, 683- 
4262 evenings.
Autos. Graduating students, lease f0r 
less. Any make or model. Call: George or 
Fran 264-9350.
===== Travel =====
VISIT NICARAGUA: Intensive Spanish
courses, family living and community work 
in Esteli. Scholarships available. Apply now 
for 1987 sessions. NIC A, P.O. Box 1409- 
CM, Cambridge, MA 02238. (617) 497-7142.
SPRING BREAK VACATION. Dayton,
Ft. Lauderdale, or South Padre TX. Starting at 
$139.00 7 nights Quad occupancy.
Transportation packages available. For
information call 1-800-222-4139. STUDENT 
AGENTS WELCOME.
Spring Break '87 on the Florida beaches. 
LAST CHANCE! Miami Beach/Fort Lauderdale, 
Daytona Beach, Fort Walton Beach, from $87 
for the week! HURRY, call Sunchase Tours 
toll free hot line 1-800-321-5911 for last 
minute information and reservations TODAY!
Your classified 
could be here
Rates
1-20 wds $3.00
21-50 wds $5.00
Over 50 wds $8.00
Personal, Greek, and Classified ads are taken 
by mail or in our office, Skibo 50, only.
We can bill Classifieds, but Personal and 
Greek ads must be prepaid.
LIn terariol Wsm Tsa hIsg
Sun - Thurs9 am - 4:30 am________________ fcL-_Sgt T.?_atD_-j6. run.____________
Cheeseburger Platter30* off
Soup of the Day
3 varieties of soup to choose from
offer expires Feb. 28,1987
includes: Cheeseburger, Fries
and Small Coke
only $299
offer expires Feb. 28,1987
PAYLESSATHQUnW
r We feature Fords.
 Low Daily - Weekly Rates Weekend Specials Must be 21 or over
 Most Major Credit Cards Accepted 
(Students' and Parents' cards accepted.) Passenger Vans available also 1/2 mile from Campus
> For Reservations Across The U S Ar*4 Canada
Dial Toll rMvv 800 237-2004WE RENT PASSENGER VANSholiday521-57003'_Wv&&Srent-a-car/j
Merge ent A Cl MOOWMunsAve Pgt PA
501 OFF!
ft
David LynchFilmFestival
continued from page D1 
peaceful suburbia. Initially, Lynch 
mocks Sandy's account of her dream, 
in which thousands of robins, 
representing love, are set free to put an 
end to the evil that torments the world. 
Though ridiculously schmaltzy, the 
accompanying organ music coming 
from a nearby church makes the scene 
hilarious. Yet as we are pulled deeper 
and deeper into sordid underworld of 
Lumberton, Lynch seems to be telling 
us, hey, middle America isn't so bad. 
Look at the alternative.
But then there's the ambiguous final 
scene: back among the sunshine, the 
flowers, and the picket fences, we see a 
robin perched outside a window, with a 
writhing insect clutched in its beak. 
Lynch doesn't offer any morals or 
messages; he just likes to explore 
places some people would rather stay 
away from. Or as one of the characters 
in Blue Velvet puts it, "It's a strange 
world, isn't it?*
3 B.R. Shadyside Apt. 
Large (for 4-5), creatively 
designed, 1 1/2 blocks from 
heart of Walnut Street. 
Dont wait for leftovers: 
sign lease now for 
September. Summer
sublet available. $500 ++ 
521-9655.

---------------------------------------------------

When you get to .4uHgeeSSS
Justus is a conference to be held in the Pittsburgh Hilton, 
February 27*29 7, applying die biblical truths 
of the Christian kith to every area 
of academic endeavor, every activity 
and relationship of life.
For information contact:
Coalition for Christian Outreach 
6740 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, f* 15208
(412) 363-3303
..visit our
96z*-2tn-23 fr-2R 
at the 
{-22z_r8oM 9-n26h
Saturday, February 28 
7:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
The Barron Suite, Room 2304 
Academic Dean Dr. Samuel Logan,
Church History Professor Dr. Richard Gamble 
and Director of Admissions Mr. Justin Tillett 
will be there to meet you with information about 
Westminster Theological Seminary
and with FREE coffee and doughnuts (morning); 
cheese, crackers, snacks and soda (afternoon)
Westminster 
Theological 
Seminary
We train 
servants of 
Jesus Christ 
to apply God's Word 
to all of life.
Write for 
information:
Mr. Justin Tillett 
Director of Admissions 
Westminster Theological Seminary 
Box 27009 
Philadelphia, PA 19118
GET INTO THE SPIRITOF CARNEGIE MELLON ATHLETICS!
Cheerleading Tryouts
2/27
2/28
3/1
Thistle Hall 
6:30 - 9:30pm 
Women's Gym 
4:00 - 7:00pm
Women's Gym 
4:00 - 7:00pm
For more information call: 
Tom x5400 
Julie 683-6413
ip  ce 3 si Q
Imi IP S
The Housing Office is now accepting applications from groups of students who 
would like to be considered for residency in one of the 4 Special Interest Houses.
Each Special Interest House is a 4-bedroom, 8-person apartment in the Margaret 
Morrison residence complex. In order to be eligible for consideration as a Special 
Interest House, a student group must have at least eight members, and one or two 
alternates if at all possible.
The specific goal of the Housing Office in providing the Special Interest Houses 
is to encourage situations where the living environment compliments the learn
ing opportunities of the residents involved and where specific educational goals 
outlined by the member-residents are understood and enhanced.
If more than 4 groups of students submit applications for these Special Interest 
Houses, a decision will be based on a comparison of the educational goals presented 
and the likelihood of serious educational benefit being derived from residency in 
this type of living situation.
Application forms are available in the Housing Office and must be filled out and 
returned by:
February 16, 1987
Deadline
SUMMERBY
UNIVERSITY
PARIS 1987
GERMANY 1987
What are you doing this summer? Why not make it a European summer? 
Join us for three weeks on the CMU campus and four weeks in Europe 
developing your communication skills in French or German.
Intensive language instruction, excellent teachers, for beginning and 
intermediate students.
Full day program, five days a week, for 3 weeks in June in Pittsburgh/4 
credits, $900. Continental breakfast and lunch included. 
French program at Institute Catholique in Paris for 4 weeks (July 1-31) 
German program at Goethe Institute in Rothenburg for 4 weeks 
(July 6-31) 
Each overseas program, 6 credits, ** $1350. Includes tuition, room and 
board, and excursions.
Students may enroll in either the Pittsburgh or European programs independently. 
Make this a special summer. Write or call us for details. Modem 
Languages, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213. 
(412) 268-2881.
DEADLINE FOR APPLICATION APRIL 1. 
SCHOLARSHIPS AVAILABLE TO CMU STUDENTS

---------------------------------------------------

Page D12The TartanFebruary 17, 1987
Announcements
Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 pm and 5 pm, in 
his office, 602 Warner Hall on Wednesday, 
February 18. Students who wish to meet with 
the president should telephone his secretary 
at 268-2200 to set up an appointment 
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy
celebrates mass on campus at 12:30 pm,
Monday through Friday in Skibo room 39; 7
pm, Saturdays and 10:30 am, Sundays in the 
Graduate School of Industrial Administration
Auditorium. A solemn mass is celebrated at 
noon on Sundays in Heinz Chapel. For more 
information call 681-3181.
GALA Rap Session. Think you might be 
gay? Want to talk about it? To supplement 
its regular meetings, the CM Gay and Lesbian 
Alliance is initiating a series of biweekly 
gatherings where you can discuss issues that 
are important to you in a casual and 
sympathetic environment. For details, 
contact GALA via campus mail c/o Skibo 
Information Desk or via computer mail to 
ga0y@tb. All responses are confidential.
Ronald Romano presents "Recent 
Abstractions" at the Pittsburgh Center for the 
Arts, Fifth and Shady Avenues, through 
February 22. Gallery hours are 10 am - 5 pm, 
Tuesday through Saturday and 1 pm - 5 pm, 
Sunday.
Buhl Science Center. Laserium. Journey 
to an energetic and colorful world where 
blazing lights and magical images glow and 
gyrate to music by rocks most spectacular 
artists in Laserium, presented live under the 
stars at 8 pm and 9:15 pm, Thursday through 
Sunday; and 3 pm, Saturday. For current 
concerts call 321-5554.
"Color," nineteen do-it-yourself modules 
explore die mysteries behind everyday color 
phenomena. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For 
more information call 321-4300.
"Bio Comer," interact with newly-hatched 
chicks and ducklings - new ones hatching 
weekly. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, 
Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, 
Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For more 
information call 321-4300.
"Image Imagination," hands-on modules 
explore amazing images  let your 
imagination run wild. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, 
Saturday. For more information call 321- 
4300.
"Foucault Pendulum," displays proof of 
the Earths rotation. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, 
Saturday. For more information call 321- 
4300.
'The Right Moves," You're the star 
performer in Buhl's new action-packed exhibit 
exploring the body in motion! Exciting 
hands-on activities -- Momentum machine, 
Video Strobe, Pitch - It and more - let 
visitors investigate the mechanics of motion 
"step by step." Permanent exhibit at 1 pm -
5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For 
more information call 321-4300.
Miniature Railroad and Village. A Buhl 
tradition that has delighted visitors for 
generations! Trains, boats and dozens of tiny 
animations keep audiences spellbound! This 
season's exhibit sets the turn of the century 
countryside in each of the four seasons - 
- don;tmiss it at 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday 
through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; 
and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; through March 
1. For more information call 321-4300.
Observatory. Weather permitting, view 
Jupiter, Mars and other wonders visible in the 
night sky at 9 pm - 10:30 pm, Friday.
'The Violent UniverseVeteran film 
actor Vincent Price takes audiences on a grand 
tour of "things that go bump in the night, 
the turbulent and dynamic activity of the 
universe in a seemingly tranquil starry night 
sky. Explore solar lasers, novae and 
supemovae, the milky Way's violent 
explosions and black hole and the Big Bang-- 
which is the fiery birth of the solar system 
itself at 2 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 2 
pm and 7 pm, Thursday; 2 pm, 4:30 pm and 7 
pm, Friday; 11 am, 2 pm, 4:30 pm and 7 pm, 
Saturday; and 2 pm, 4:30 pm and 7 pm, 
Sunday.
Pgh Playhouse Junior Children's 
Theatre. The Elves and the Shoemaker. 
Magic is the order of the day in this classic 
story! The poor shoemaker and his family 
are set upon by the evil Heckla. But the 
elves have a few tricks up their sleeves and 
save the day, at 11 am and 2:30 pm, 
Saturdays; and 2:30 pm, Sundays, through 
March 29.
n
 Tuesday
Movies
Bell, Book and Candle, starring James 
Stewart, Kim Novak, Jack Lemmon, Ernie 
Kovacs and Hermione Gingold. A publisher 
discovers that his new girl friend might be a 
witch. Pleasant comedy. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Dept, of Arctitecture Lecture. Carl 
Pucci, Architect, New York, speaks at 8 pm 
in Wean Hall room 7500.
Workshops
Career Decision Making Series.
Freshman and Sophomore Section. A four 
session seminar designed to help you assess 
your interests and abilities, explore current 
career interests as well as new ideas, and form 
goals and strategies. Limited enrollment.
Seminar at 4 pm in Skibo room 112.
Special Events
French Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a French Language table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
1 Wednesday
JL1/ Movies
Watership Down. Animated film of
Richard Adams' best seller about a rabbit 
family trying to find a place to live. With 
the voices of Zero Mostel, John Hurt, and 
Ralph Richardson. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Dept of Architecture Seminar. L.P.
Perfido speaks at 12:30 pm in CFA room
206.
Carnegie Mellon Visiting Writers
Series. Chase Twitchell, Poet, speaks at 8 
pm in the Adamson Wing, BH.
Workshops
Independent Search. Campus interviews
are not meant to be your only job search
strategy! Come learn where else you can 
distribute your resumes using want ads, 
informal contacts, address directories, walk-in
visits, and employment agencies. NonTechnical emphasis, but all majors welcome 
at 4:50 pm in Skibo room 13.
Special Events
Spanish Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a Spanish Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
She's Gotta Have It, starring Tracy
Camila Johns, Tommy Redmond Hicks, John
Canada Terrell and Spike Lee. Continuously
entertaining comedy about a young black 
woman pursued by 3 lovers: one is very
sensitive, the second is selfish, and the third 
is a comedian. Jazz score by Lee's father. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 
pm. Admission $2.95.
My Fair Lady, sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm and 9 pm. Admission $1.
Lectures
Dept. of Psychology Colloquium.
Dr. Robert Plomin, Pennsylvania State 
University, speaks on "Behavioral Genetics 
and Temperament" at 4 pm in the Adamson 
Wing, BH. Coffee is served before the lecture 
in the Psychology Lounge, BH 336-D.
Workshops
How to Make the Most of Your
Summer, Find answers to questions like: 
How do I look for a summer job? What are 
some of the avenues I should pursue? How do 
I find out what's "out there?" and "Who do I 
market myself to?" at 4:30 pm in Skibo room 
13.
Special Events
German Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a German Language Table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
English Table. The ESL (English as a 
Second Language) center sponsors an English 
Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining 
hall.
J A Friday
RAU VF Movies
She's Gotta Have It, starring Tracy
Camila Johns, Tommy Redmond Hicks, John
Canada Terrell and Spike Lee. Continuously 
entertaining comedy about a young black 
woman pursued by 3 lovers: one is very
sensitive, the second is selfish, and the third 
is a comedian. Jazz score by Lee's father. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm 
and 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Looney, Looney, Looney Bugs 
Bunny Movie, sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and 
midnight. Admission $1.
Peasant Letter. This visually poetic film 
mixes anthropology with politics while
examining the problems of a Senegalese 
village being forced into single-crop farming 
of peanuts. The film is made in the form of a 
letter "to whom it may concern." Peasant 
Letter, one of the first feature Jfilms directed 
by a black African woman, mixes 
documentary footage with fiction. Senegalese, 
English subtitles. The Carnegie Museum of 
Art at 8 pm. Admission $3.
She's Gotta Have It, starring Tracy 
Camila Johns, Tommy Redmond Hicks, John 
Canada Terrell and Spike Lee. Continuously 
entertaining comedy about a young blabk 
woman pursued by 3 lovers: one is very
sensitive, the second is selfish, and the third 
is a comedian. Jazz score by Lee's father. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm 
and 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Bad Timing/ A Sensual Obsession. 
The age-old story of passionate love, 
jealousy, and eventual violent parting is 
impressively retold by Roeg in his highly 
personal style. The sudden, steamy affair 
between an American psychoanalyst in 
Vienna (Art Garfunkel) and a young American 
woman comes unraveled through a complex 
set of deceipts and frailties in this beautiful 
and disturbingly perceptive film. Carnegie 
Museum of Art at 8 pm. Admission $3.
Ferris Buellers Day Off, sponsored by 
SDC Films. DH at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and 
midnight. Admission $1.
Lectures
Young Socialist Alliance. Jack Barnes, 
the National Secretary of the Socialist 
Workers Party, speaks on "Malcom X Today" 
at 8 pm at the Three Rivers Room, William 
Penn Hotel on Mellon Square, downtown. 
Admission $ 3, for students and unemployed 
$1.
Special Events
Gaming Club Meeting. Open gaming
meeting. Relax with a game - try anything
from Dungeons and Dragons to your favorite 
board game or strategy game. Meeting at l 
pm in the Wherrett Room, Skibo. Check the 
bulletin board at the Skibo information desk. 
For more information call x4217.
Sunday
Jmd d Movies
Bringing Up Baby, starring Katharine 
Hepburn, Quy Grant and Charlie Ruggles. 
Classic comedy about an anthropologist who 
gets mixed up with a lady and a tiger. Great 
screwball comedy. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
The Elephant Man, sponsored by AB 
Films. DH at 6 pm, 8:30 pm and 11 pm. 
Admission $1.
Special Events
At the meeting today of the CM Gay 
and Lesbian Alliance, a businessman and 
active member of the local gay community 
gives a personal account of the evolution of 
gay life in Pittsburgh over the past several 
decades. The informal talk begins at 7:30 pm 
in PH 125C.
1 ^ Monday
Movies
Repulsion, starring Catherine Deneuve, Ian 
Hendry and John Fraser. A chilling horror 
story about the disintegration of a sexually 
repressed woman. Fine psychological study 
with an excellent performance by Deneuve. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 
pm. Admission $2.95.
If you wish to place an announcement, 
miscellaneous item, or event in The 
Tartan, send it to ACME / University 
Relations / Carnegie Mellon University / 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Send it by campus 
mail to the above address or drop it off at 
5017 Forbes Ave (The house between AY and 
Am).
Please include the following information 
when submitting events: Title of event, 
sponsor, brief description, location, date, and 
time. In addition, include the name and 
phone number of the person submitting the 
entry; this information will be used only to 
confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the 
accuracy or validity of any Event listing. In 
addition, it reserves the right to edit or omit 
any listing for publication.
All events are free of charge and open to the 
general CMU student population unless 
otherwise noted.
Deadline for ACME submissions is 
Wednesday at 5 pm for the next 
weeks issue.
Time to...CareMore,ShareMore
Send submissions to ACME, c/o Public Relations4h-2R! Bd3

---------------------------------------------------

February 17, 1987The TartanPage 9
Venture Capital and Carnegie Mellon: What NeXT?
By PAUL SMITH
You didn't hear it first in The Tartan or 
through any of the usually hyperactive CMU 
publicity machinery. News of CMU's 
$650,000 investment in NeXT, the new 
company of Steven Jobs, 
deposed founder of Apple 
Computer, began coming 
through in the national 
press a couple of weeks ago. 
Lisa McAnany's article
Pnlnmn a^ut in last week's 
Tartan was after the fact and 
probably the first that many of us heard
about it
Theres a number of questions that come up 
quite naturally, it seems to me-about the 
whole enterprise, and this by-passing of the 
universitys local information organs is only 
one of them, or just part of larger issues. 
That is, there are bound to be questionslegitimate ones, to be sure-about the 
propriety of the university's putting up 
venture capital for not just this enteiprise 
but for any such enterprise. Is it appropriate 
for an institution of education to wed itself
so closely to capital interests? Are we going 
to land up like Stanford University (another 
investor in NeXT) and have large chunks of 
the campus leased out to corporations who 
put up their signs and logos as if the 
university were just another industrial park?
First of all there's the problem of the 
purely financial advisability of investing 
such a large amount of money in NeXT. As 
yet the company has no product-only vague 
promises of a high-powered computer for 
higher educational purposes. Even so, Jobs 
has set the initial valuation of NeXT at $126 
million. A report on the company and its 
investors in Newsweek cited one industry 
analyst as saying that he "can't think of a 
company that has ever been valued that high 
without a product." The same article quotes 
another analyst talking about Ross Perot, 
multi-billionaire and a $20 million con
tributor to NeXT: "you have to assume that 
Perot is investing more out of emotion than 
prudence." Was there debate in the CMU 
administration about the prudence of the 
investment? And where does the money 
come from to investwhat university fund 
contains that kind of money, and who
Does True Love Exist at Carnegie Mellon?
By TOM ISENBERG
In this erudite and comprehensive study, I 
confront several challenging and problematic 
questions and theories regarding a question 
that bums in all of our minds, a question 
that's right up there with "What's for 
dinner?" or "Are you sure your roommate 
wont care?"
The question "Does true love exist at 
Carnegie Mellon?" has several words which 
need to be defined if this essay is to present 
the most eruditest answer possible.
First, what is "true"? Ayn Rand, whom I 
hope you all know is flossing her teeth in 
Hell even as we speak, said that die perfect 
illustration of a man (she was a committed 
feminist) possessing and in pursuit of Truth 
is that of a scientist in his laboratory. But 
since a scientist often comes up with 
varying readings for the same measurement, 
he doesn't exactly know hes got an absolute. 
Is Truth an absolute? (I always raised that 
question before spankings.)
Are some things truer than others? Is an 
apple more true than Bulgaria's Gross 
National Product for 1958? For the sake of 
sanity, let's pretend that everyone agrees that 
Truth is an absolute. If it's good enough for 
George Washington, it oughta be good 
enough for you, you lying weasels, you.
On to the next definition, and this one 
seems to me a side issue. What is Love? Is 
it always the same thing? Is Love the same 
emotion felt between your Mom and Pop as 
felt between you and your Mom? Do you 
love your best friend the same way you love 
the weekend? Does Love make the world 
spin 'round, or did something else make you 
puke Saturday night?
The question of defining Love is like those 
three blind guys trying to describe an 
elephant. You know, one guy strokes its 
leg and determines that an elephant is like 
tree trunk. The second guy runs his hand 
along the beast's ear and will maintain that 
an elephant looks like a huge palm leaf. 
The third one investigates the tail and 
concludes that an elephant is like a living 
rpe. (That's my favorite guy.) Get the 
point? Me neither, but imagine a fourth guy 
(the one they never tell you about) who 
happens to be sitting under the elephant's 
tail when nature calls. What will he have to 
say about the concept of "elephant"? (His 
view may not differ much from my 
thoughts on Love, at this point.)
satisfying definition of either Truth or Love, 
let's move along to a question that may be 
easier to deal with. Before we can answer 
whether true love exists at Carnegie Mellon, 
we must first ask ourselves  honestly, 
unabashedly, and courageously ~ DOES 
CARNEGIE MELLON EXIST?
Is, as Marx suggested, Carnegie Mellon 
merely the opiate of the enrolled masses? 
(Was that Harpo or Zeppo?) Is Carnegie 
Mellon really just wishful thinking for those 
too feeble-minded to wake up to Marx's 
notion of reality? Just because some guys 
slap a bunch of buildings together and the 
result is blindly accepted as an institution, 
does that mean that Carnegie Mellon exists 
for anyone who desires a personal 
relationship with it?
"But," you may counter, and leftly so, "the 
boys/girls at Carnegie Mellon exist." Aha. 
So that's what matters? So that's the proof 
that Carnegie Mellon exists, eh? O.K., are 
we ready to go to THE QUESTION yet? 
Well, lets do it anyway.
If "true love" is an absolute, then it must 
exist everywhere, if it exists at all. Those of 
us who say that our boy/girl-friends are "true 
love" had better make sure that those loves 
don't go around existing everwhere, right? 
Look what happened to China. So, if "true 
love" exists, it must exist at Carnegie 
Mellon. But if it doesn't exist, it doesn't 
exist at Carnegie Mellon, either.
I guess the obvious answer, and you read it 
here first, is that we get to decide for 
ourselves what "true love" is, what "exists" 
means, and what "Carnegie Mellon" is doing 
here in the middle of a perfectly good golf 
course. All of us have spent a good deal of 
time kicking our notions of "true love" 
around in our minds, hearts, and glands. 
Sometimes we find a boy/girl we are 
convinced is "true love" for us, only to be 
tossed on the pile of all the other 
queeblerones whose lives that person has 
destroyed. In those cases, I tend to agree 
with a slogan I see from time to time on 
flyers posted in my classrooms
- "Sometimes we look for love in all the 
wrong places."
But as for me and mine, we will try to 
forget about Oscar-Beth, the Norwegian farm 
girl who dumped me like so many sardine 
heads, and go on acting as if Love is fluffy 
and pink, and not merely a brutal 
manifestation of power-lust, anxiety, 
manipulation, and general mental hygiene.
controls it?
CMU is clearly betting that NeXT will be 
profitable. (Ironically, one of the ways it 
might become so is by having CMU be one 
of its first and major customers; I wonder 
whether the university accountants will 
factor that in when they figure the 
profitability of their investment.) But it's 
surely legitimate to ask whether it's 
appropriate for the university to be 
undertaking such huge bets especially in a 
year when it's offering a skinflint contract to 
university workers, and pay increments to 
faculty which promise to be less than half 
the national median.
But even allowing that the university is 
making a wise investment, who will benefit 
from it? One immediate beneficiary is clearly 
going to be CMU's senior vice president 
Crecine who'll be sitting on the board of 
NeXT. Apparently, he's going to represent 
"higher education," according to last weeks 
Tartan article. But of course hell also be 
representing himself insofar as this position 
can only help his career. The rumors that 
regularly surface around the university claim 
that he has at least an eye on some more 
glittering prize. And, besides long-term 
career intangibles, what are the immediate 
financial consequences for Crecine? As a 
board member will he be receiving personal 
remuneration?
Im casting this all in questions because I 
myself happen to think that the whole 
enterprise is questionable. But more im
portant, the issues it touches upon have to 
do with the future not just of CMU but of 
education itself in this country. To involve 
schools and industry in an ever-tighter 
complex is indisputably to change the 
character and kind of education we get 
CMU's own recent history is evidence 
enough of that.
Whether that change is for the better or for 
the worse is still debatable, it seems to me. 
However, I interpret the administration's 
commitment to enterprises like NeXT (and 
implicitly to the whole notion of free 
enterprise itself) as a way of telling us all 
that the question has already been answered. 
Indeed, that's presumably why this 
controversial investment is already a fait 
accompli, and any local debate about it and 
the issues it raises can only be carried on 
after the fact.
On a different scale and in a different way,
the administration just recently made another 
implicit rejection of local sentiment, by 
arranging the university calendar so that 
Commencement falls-this year and next on 
Mother's Day. Although this may be very 
convenient for the administration, and 
perhaps for graduating students and their 
families, it's not so convenient for some 
other people.
Commencement day becomes in effect an 
extra working day for physical plant, 
catering, and secretarial staff. For many of 
these peoplea good number of them women 
Mother's Day is important To require them 
to work on Mother's Day is to deprive them 
not only of their usual weekend freetime, but 
also a special occasion for them and their 
families. And what's more they're expected 
to work on quite dubious termsin the words 
of president Cyert, CMU "does not provide 
few 'extra pay' or premium pay on a day such 
as Mothers Day." These university 
employees and their interests are pretty 
regularly underestimated by just about 
everyone on campus, but in this case the 
disregard seems especially egregious.
The administration has rejected other dates 
for commencement because a) students and 
parents don't like to have it on a Monday, b) 
parking problems occur on Mondays, c) 
Saturdays brings up religious conflicts, and
d) any other weekend would cut into the 
schedule of the semester. For all those 
reasons, the sentiments and concerns of the 
university workers get trampled upon.
The whole issue might not have caused as 
much resentment as it has except for the 
university's arrogance about it. Answering 
Staff Council questions last June about the 
necessity for this arrangement, the president 
said this: "I am not saying that Sunday 
commencement on Mothers Day will be 
policy from now on. We are thinking of the
1987 commencement as an opportunity to 
see how well it suits our community." And 
lo and behold, Mother's Day has now been 
scheduled for commencement this year and 
in 1988 without further discussion.
Venture capitalists have never been much 
noted for their concern for the people who 
work for them. But maybe CMU's student 
body might feel moved to suggest to their 
departments and to the administration that 
this de facto policy be changed?
Paul Smith is an Associate Professor in 
the English Department.
The Tartan
Albrecht T. Powell
Lisa D. McAnany
Editor-in-Chief
Andrew Robitshek
Managing EditorBusiness Manager
Drue MillerDave LevyBruce Kasrel
News EditorFeatures EditorEntertainment Editor
Don GambleGlenn SchusterAndrew Gillespie
Sports EditorPhoto Darkroom EditorPhoto Assignment Editor
Kurt ShawRuss SeligmanLisa Zito
Art EditorProduction ManagerAd Manager
Pam HornMary MurphyOlve Peersen
Dossier EditorTypesetting ManagerContributing Editor
John FriedmannJack Poller
Contributing EditorContributing Editor
The Tartan is the official student newspaper of Carnegie 
Melton University. It is a weekly newspaper, published 
each Tuesday during the fall and spring semesters by 
students art no cost to members of the university 
community. It is printed by Typecraft Press. Inc. 
Subscriptions are available for $15 per semester. $25 per 
year. The Editorial appearing at the beginning of the 
opinion section is the official opinion of The Tartan 
editorial board. Column are the opinions of individual 
authors who are not necessarily on The Tartan editorial 
board or staff Letters to the Editor are opinions of 
individual authors who are usually members of the 
University community.
A letter intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writers address and phone number lor 
verification. Names will be withheld upon request. The 
Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any iettsr 
or column Copyright 1967 by The Tartan The editorial 
board reserves the right to withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit tor publication.
Office: Skibo 50-52 (412) 268-2111
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Camegie Melton
University'Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Funded m part by the Activities Fee. AM rights reeerved.
Library of Congress ISSN # 0890-3107

---------------------------------------------------

NEW SALE ITEMSDEMONSTRATION UNITS
OTHER SPECIAL BARGAINS
15% off marked price of all used equipment Bp 
10% off all unlisted demonstrator unitsopusone
where you leave a little bit smarter
ELECTROSTATIC SPEAKERS
Reg. $1400$899
SUBWOOFERSKENWOOD KV926HF
Fundamental Res. 
Audio Pro B-240
ELECTRONICS
One of a kind specials
(d)downtown (o)Oakland
All items subject to prior sala
Acoustat 8s 
Acoustat 3s
REG. SALE
pr. $5,299 pr. $2,995 (d) 
pr. 1,995 p t 1,595 (o)
KENWOOD KMT 1026A
26
HIGH RESOLUTION 
VIDEO MONITOR 
RECEIVER w/STAND
pr. 1,200 
595
pr. 299 (d) 
295 (o)
SPEAKERS
pr. 295 
pu 795
00
(d)
Reg. <900$699
VHS
HQ/HI-FI/STEREO 
VIDEO CASSETTE 
RECORDER
TEAC R-425
599 (d/o) 
1295 (o) 
1400 (d) 
149 (d) 
299 (d) 
399 (d) 
599 (d) 
995 (o) 
949 (d/o) 
949 (d/o) 
99 (d) 
349 (d/o) 
599 (d) 
499 (d)
AUTO REVERSE 
CASSETTE DECK 
DOLBY B and C
Reg. $239$159
SENNHEISER 
HEAD PHONES
HD40 Reg. $45 $29 
HD410SL Reg.$59 $39
HD414SL Reg $84 $59
PD-100 Reg. $49.95 $35
VIDEO
TWO DAYS ONLY  FEB 16 and 17 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.
Once a year, Opus One puts on sale, its demonstration units, and one-of-a-kind bargains. 
This year, in celebration of Presidents Day, Opus One is also offering great buys on 
used equipment, and select new items. Get your share of these incredible bargains.
Spica TC-50 (oak) 
ITC-rs (walnut)
pr. 450 
pr. 995
Dual Rack System 1200
Revox B-285 Receiver 1900 
Revox B-215 Cassette 1880 
Sony 444 ES Tuner 222
Belles DMC Pre-Amp 595
Acoustat Pre-Amp 795
Acoustat Power Amp TNT 2001200 
Quad Pre-Amp/Amphiiner 1800 
Tandberg 3012 Amp 1195
Tandberg 3015 CD 1295
Nikko Power Board 169
Pioneer LD-700 Laser Video Disc800 
Teac W880RX Dual Well Casette799 
Teac R88X Cassette 699
TURNTABLES
SONY HF-90 TAPE
Normal Bias 
Cassette Tape99
Pioneer STP-40 40 proj. TV 3,500 
Novabeam 100 proj. TV 4,300
2,795 (d/o) 
3300 (d)
Aristn RD40 w/o arm
400 smlthfleld ft., downtown, Pittsburgh 281-3969
3709 torbos ava, 2nd floor, Oakland (across from McDonalds) 621-8585

---------------------------------------------------

rv'f7Mv&
rgM D d'AvM ,'M8N1'W
By IRENE KAO
Tartan Staffwriter
Spring Carnival, 1987: this three-day 
weekend is looked upon with enthusiasm, 
not only by Carnegie Mellon students, but 
also, the entire Pittsburgh community. With 
all the activities, about 60,000-70,000 
people attend this event each year. Too many 
people for such a small space as Midway.
Last year, Toby Ayre, now a junior, saw 
the need for a better security system during 
Spring Carnival. Based on data reports, 
Spring Carnival becomes less safe each year. 
For example, three years ago, in 1984, there 
were no damage or assaults. However, in 
1985, there were $1080 in damages and two 
assaults. Last year, things became even 
worse; $5000 in damages and stolen property 
and five assaults.
With Bob Fadzen, the previous director of 
campus police, as an advisor, Toby and 
Fadzen spent a lot of time on their proposal 
for a new security system.
Unfortunately, Fadzen passed away and in 
his place, Fred Rogers, Vice President of 
Business Affairs, worked with Toby. They 
helped to form a new committee few Spring 
Carnival, the Security Committee. The new 
commitee consists of Toby Ayre as the 
chairperson, Maureen Yim as the co
chairperson and Vinnie Boccino as the other 
supervisor. This committee for special 
security proposed a $25,000 budget for the 
first year, but received $16,000 ($5,000 from 
Student Senate, $1,000 from Student Dorm 
Council and $10,000 from President Cyert).
People come here to have fun; extra
By RUSS SELIGMAN
Tartan Production Manager
The Carnegie Mellon Film Club has only 
recently received Student Senate recognition, 
and some people would find that strange. 
What may be even more unbelievable, 
though, is that just one year ago the Film 
Club did not exist at all. If you're 
wondering why an organization which seems 
to belong at Carnegie Mellon took so long 
to establish itself, you're not alone.
Mike Field asked himself that very 
question. "I thought it was strange that 
there wasn't a film club around here 
because...the people in E&S need a release, 
and the people in drama and creative writing 
majors should get used to working around 
film." So Field put his words into action 
and founded what was first called the 
Amateur Filmmaking Club, then the 
Filmmaking Club, and finally the Film 
Club.
The goal of the club is simple: to make 
films, and to help others make films. This 
semester the club is going to undertake some 
Super 8 projects, with big plans for them 
once they are completed. "We're going to 
have them converted to video tape, and 
hopefully we'll be able to get them on the 
public access station," Field says. The 
reference is to Channel 21, PCTV, a local 
cable television station which allows 
Pittsburgh residents to use their facilities to 
create and broadcast their own films. The 
station also broadcasts Filmmakers 
Showcase, a collection of works by students 
of Pittsburgh Filmmakers.
Other possibilities include entering the 
films in various collegiate and national 
contests, winners of which could have their 
projects shown on national cable stations.
Specific projects depend only on what the 
members want to do. As Field explains it,
We want people to come up with their own 
ideas. We'll discuss them, and well try to 
do them. Since its not for a class, and just 
for our own enjoyment, we can experiment a
security is essential in order for everyone to 
have a good time. It happens that the 
Carnegie Mellon students are not responsible 
for the disruptiveness. According to records, 
it is the outsiders that are hurting the 
school's students and property. In other 
words, Carnegie Mellon students are not the 
ones victimizing, but are the victims. 
Toby's concern is to ensure that no one will 
get hurt.
Now, a brief job description. The task is to 
act as the eyes and ears of the security 
system; Toby especially emphasized the 
hands-off policy. Everyone will be given a 
radio that is connected to the police office 
and would report anything suspicious or 
unusual. The student monitors will be in
lot" He expects to do some work with 
various techniques and special effects such as 
air brushing, scratching film, stop-action 
animation, and time lapse.
Their films, however, will not be limited 
to trite special effects or blockbuster movie 
parodies. The club will also try to do things 
that otherwise wouldn't be available to the 
campus, such as stories, narratives, and 
documentaries. One of the other 
possibilities is filming commercials for 
student organizations, which could be shown 
on campus.
In addition to making movies for their own 
use, a secondary function of the Film Club 
is to crew for people making films in other 
departments. This assistance would be in
Illustration by Kurt Shaw
pairs and stationed at different locations. 
Before the carnival, there will be a training 
program. Also, Toby would like to 
interview the people interested in becoming 
student monitors, because "responsibility is 
what I'm looking for in each student."
If anyone is interested, please contact Toby 
as soon as possible. Let's show some school 
spirit and make this year's Spring Carnival 
one of the safest and the best!
If you are interested in working during 
Spring Carnival as a Security Monitor 
please contact Toby Ayre at: 
extension: x4728
campus mail: Morewood Box 1342 
computer mail: FA08 at any TOPS 
or TOBY@ANDREW
the form of camera work, set-up, and helping 
the director.
Progress with projects this semester is 
good, despite a shaky start last fall with 
16mm film. A script had been written, a 
setting had been chosen and prepared, 
equipment had been rented, and the film was 
loaded in the camera. Only a few minutes of 
film had been shot, and then things started to 
fall apart. "We had gotten very far on the 
project," recalls Field, "and just some things 
at the end went wrong, went really wrong. 
Murphy's Law went into effect in overdrive; 
people started dying." While not quite that 
drastic, equipment failure and other problems 
put a quick halt to the Film Clubs first 
continued on Page 13
Wwr tffln Mrdls
Continuing this Saturday and Sunday 
at the Pittsburgh Aviary is the series of 
programs that start at 11 am and 
continue until 4 pm, sponsored by the 
Pittsburgh Aviary Volunteer Inter
preters.
These weekend programs will include 
live demonstrations, a display on 
attracting wild birds, storytelling for 
children and informal tours of the 
Aviary.
There is no additional charge for any of 
the programs, just the regular admission 
price to the Aviary. And what is that 
price? $1.50 for Adult residents; $2.00 
for non-residents. 75 cents for all 
children; those young and those over the 
age of 60 (the young at heart). Still 
want more information? Just call the 
Pittsburgh Aviary at 323-7235.
ns sftni dMm ttDn
The Carnegie has the "Dr. Seuss from 
Then to Now" exhibit continuing until 
the end of February, but this Saturday 
will be focused on the book The 500 
Hats of Bartholomew Cubbins.
There will be free hats given to the 
first 500 children who stop by the 
exhibit. In addition there will be a 
Gallery Talk at 2:00.
Finally a puppet show called "Puppets 
at an Expedition" is being performed at 
11:00, 1:30 and 3:00. It is about two 
children who explore the Carnegie 
Museum of Art after hours when the 
paintings and furniture come alive...
(Mnng NdDwkgir FaM
The fourth annual "Race to No Place" 
will be taking place a week from this 
friday on February 27 at 4 pm and will 
continue until 4 pm the next day. The 
Race is a 24-hour stationary bicycle 
marathon takling place in the Food 
Court of PPG Place.
Teams can win prizes and trophies by 
attracting the most pledges for every 
mile pedaled on a bike. Riders pedal in 
half-hour increments, and winners are 
selected based on the most miles ridden 
and the most money pledged per mile 
pedaled. Anyone can form a team for the 
event.
The two teams with the most mileage 
will receive trophies. In addition PPG 
merchants have offered ten dollar gift 
certificates to each member of the 
winning teams.
Anyone interested in entering a team 
for the Race to No Place can do so by 
contacting the Heart Association at 731- 
7500.
So come on out; it's the best way to 
get nowhere fast!
EdDdkaLfiIk(g Eetomnnis
On Februrary 28, the Rock-a-Like 
returns for its second year. The lip-sync 
contest helped to raise the large sum of 
money for Students against Multiple 
Sclerosis that gave us the Bangles 
concert
This year the Rock-a-Like will be 
taking place in the Ballroom at Skibo 
Hall and the voting will be done the 
same way as it was last year. 
Admission will be three dollars and you 
will receive three votes that you can cast 
for the group that you like the best And 
if you want to help push your group 
over the top you can buy additional 
votes for a dollar apiece.
Spotlight: The Film Club

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanFebruary 17, 1987
Illiteracy in America: More widespread than most people think
By DENNIS REDMOND
Tartan Stqffwriter
Time flies - even when youre not having 
fun. The first month and a half of 1987 have 
already shot by; the hysterical postSuperbowl fallout has settled, and students 
everywhere are nestling down for a long 
winter's nap, Iranscam notwith
standing. The pledges are pledging, 
the parties are hopping, the 
schoolwork is grinding. One wonders: 
is there an outside world? Are there 
social issues to be found? And there is 
no answer, beyond the blank 
humming of the terminal screen.
As the song says, we have become 
comfortably numb. Oh, don't scream 
like that, dear reader - we all know 
how it's done. The sociable ones are 
pulled in by the frats, the sororities, 
the parties; the rest of us sort of float 
along, some rapt with their machines, 
some with their dreams, some with 
their schedule. Some pretend that they 
don't have time for anything else. Yet 
there is time. There is always time.
The question revolves as to what one 
allocates that time for. Perhaps the 
house, the car, and the split-level 
ranch? Of course, the debate is never 
that crude. Even the cog psych 
courses have to use words like 
"problem-solve" and "goal-oriented" 
in a very special way; they have to 
hide the nothingness, the dead 
empiricism which decrees life to be a 
complex set of subatomic inter
sections.
It is almost hilarious, in a way, to 
see a dehumanizing society attempt
ing to build artifical intelligence.
What sort of intelligence are we 
heading for, when the majority of the 
people in this country never know the 
full meaning of the word "human"?
The fact is, a third of the adults in 
America cannot read this article, let 
alone understand the complex social 
forces at work in this world. One 
third; thirty-three and a third percent, 
one out of three - sixty million 
Americans, in all, are functionally 
illiterate.
And why hasn't the U.S. Census 
reported this? According to Jonathan 
Kozol, author of "Illiterate America", 
there are any number of reasons, chief 
of which are (1) the census was 
mailed out in written form; (2) 
telephone interviews given to check 
the accuracy of the findings asked 
probing, informative questions like 
"Are you literate?" before hanging up. 
Indeed, what incentive does the 
illiterate person have to state his 
need? Lastly, there is the problem of 
mobility; namely, how does an illiterate 
person actually live? He cannot read street 
signs; he cannot read newspapers or 
magazines; he cannot understand help wanted 
ads; and even if he does try to, he cannot 
make his way into a number of jobs (though 
people have been known to fake it for years). 
Most important of all, he cannot register and 
he cannot vote. Illiterates are the most 
powerless of the powerless; they are the 
seminal underclass, the perennial doormat. 
Indeed, it is perhaps because of this that the 
Army recruits so many of them. And the 
results show; the Armed Forces at length 
dealt with the problem by simplifying their 
repair manuals, to the point where they 
began resembling low-budget comics.
Then there is the red herring of "standards". 
The high priests of education in the White 
House seem to believe, along with many 
white affluent parents, that the problem with 
the schools lies in "declining standards". 
"Excellence" must be restored, to prevent the 
college slots from closing; "tracking 
systems" must be established, to make sure 
those who might fail do so immediately. Yet
how can minorities, faced with racist 
teachers, substandard schools, and parents 
who more often than not were illiterate 
themselves - how can they have the same 
chances and the same breaks an affluent 
white from the suburbs would have? The 
disease is called social blindness; it is a
polite term for racism, for ensuring that 
those who are oppressed stay oppressed.
We must remember that freedom and choice 
in a democratic society rely upon some basic 
assumptions about the citizens. It is not 
sufficient that dissident sources of 
information exist, that there be manifold 
ways for the truth to out. If the people 
cannot read the truth, if the fact of their daily 
oppression is hidden from their very eyes, 
how can we say that America is a free 
country? Those sixty million adults do not 
have freedom. Instead, they must inevitably 
turn to the TV. They must; they have no 
other source of news or entertainment. And 
so the TV stays on and on and on... and the 
brainwashing goes on and on.
What is worse, though, is the sheer 
destruction of the personality, the dis
solution of the ego involved with illiteracy. 
Society has branded these people as failures; 
Mr. Reagan has told them, in effect, it's 
your fault for being poor and for having poor 
parents and for growing up in a rundown 
neighborhood and for attending a shodden, 
disastrous school system. The sheer mental 
alienation is horrible for these people; they
don't know where they've been, where they're 
going, or what they'll do. This sample from 
a letter perhaps best summarizes the feeling: 
"Im 33 now and finly made a go. But the 
walls are up agent, and this time I dont 
think I can go around them. What Im I to 
do. I still have someengeny left. But running
out Im afraide to run out. I don't know if I 
can settle for nothing." A semi-literate 
letter, yet full of more humanity than the 
thousands of vapid words written by white 
men in clean jackets for conservative 
magazines everywhere. This is finer prose 
than William F. Buckley or George Will 
shall ever write, simple because it is the 
truth. And the truth can hurt; the walls can 
be vicious opponents.
The truth is, "...in a print society, enor
mous stigma is attached to the adult non-read
er." Who wants to be bothered with someone 
who cannot read the labels on supermarket 
goods? Who cannot order a meal at any 
given restaurant? Who cannot even be sure 
he isn't being cheated at the supermarket, 
simply because he cannot read the price list?
Another oft-heard canard is that  much is 
being done" and that "if people really want 
to be educated, they can do it". How pray tell 
does one educate oneself, in the midst of a 
slum and overdue rent payments and job 
cutbacks and perhaps an unwanted family? 
One cant. The ideal solution would be 
onsite child care for students, but as this 
does not yield short-term profits it will not
be a viable option in this country. At any 
rate, the Government's official literacy 
program is Adult Basic Education. Of 
course, ABE is pathetic. Its meager funding 
was cut yet again by the White House; it 
opens in schools and universities difficult for 
the average nonreader to reach; and finally 
the teaching itself is insipid. "See Spot 
run". "See Mr. Brown's dog." Such 
boring, stultified sentences are naturally 
going to raise nothing but defeatism in 
the struggling illiterate, who finds 
himself juggling family, job, and 
enduring a laborious daily trip for what 
seems to be a sham. It is not surprising 
that two-thirds of ABE participants drop 
out; yet, in every ABE center around the 
nation, the waiting lists are ten times the 
number of available positions. Clearly, 
there is a tremendous need for adult 
education; the question is how to go 
about it.
Kozol personally favors neighborhood 
organizations, which must already have 
the support and trust of a good many 
people simply in order to survive. 
Second, the people are given a real 
education. They do not see Spot run; 
they see rent strikes, landlords, and 
housing authorities. They do not see 
suburban status quo; they see change, 
foment, revolution in the purest sense - 
that of a people uniting and freeing 
themselves from their chains. Is this a 
radical revolution? Should we stockpile 
the rifles? Hardly (though I suspect that 
is what Bonzo has in mind). No, Kozol 
didn't teach the neighborhoods anything; 
he showed them the way to the door, 
where they could leam for themselves. 
And later, when a particular student had 
advanced far enough, more often than not 
he or she would assume the role of 
teacher for those still further behind. In 
this way, a strong community program 
could be established and maintained with 
minimal effort.
Kozol, however, is realist enough to 
admit that much more than this is needed 
if we are ever to break the cycle of 
illiteracy. From massive flooding of the 
book" market (simply to give these 
people the materials they need), to a 
government program sponsoring such 
community action, to the perfect sideline 
for the college student: literacy teacher. 
Yes, there's even something in it for 
Carnegie. Now how would that be, if a 
subsidy were offered to students who 
decided to take on such roles? Certainly, 
the student would leam far, far more of 
the oppression and alienation less 
fortunate people in this country suffer; 
perhaps he would recognize himself as 
one of the de facto oppressors. Got that, 
you guys in the ROTC? Macho doesn't have 
to mean killing. It can simply be the bravery 
needed to set aside ones prejudices, and help 
one's fellow human being. For those of you 
with doubts, questions, queries, hate mail, or 
letter bombs - read the book first. The raw 
statistics are far more eloquent than a review 
could ever be; perhaps you might even leam 
something from it.
It is now 1987. The book is two years old. 
And so far, the sum total of its influence has 
been a gracious review in the Times. The 
experts have nodded, they have agreed, they 
have done everything except that which is 
truly required - action. And what of you? 
What will you do? Will you put down this 
article and return to the comfortable life, or 
laugh and mutter about those virulent 
leftists? Or will you just say, "that's 
interesting, that's true, but I have classes" ?
You pays your money, you makes your 
choice.
If you are interested in helping fight the 
illiteracy problem in Pittsburgh please 
contact the Greater Pittsburgh Literacy 
Council at 661-7323.
"Stunning...with passion and elo
quence Kozol reveals a devastating 
truth...and offers a challenge and 
remedy."Studs Terkel

---------------------------------------------------

February 17, 1987The TartanPage 13
Ideas for Summer Employment and Study
By KEI KlIRITA
Tartan Stqffwriter 
For those of you who still don't have 
summer plans but dont want to be stuck 
working at McDonalds again, here are a 
variety of suggestions you might consider 
for doing something different this 
summer:
INTERNSHIP IN NEW YORK:
If you ever wanted an internship in the 
New York area for the summer, the Nat
ional College Internship Service is avail
able to help find a placement for you. 
The positions will be sponsored by com
panies in New York City, Westchester, 
and Long Island.
If you're interested, contact:
National College Internship Service 
374 New York Ave.
Huntington, New York 11743 
^ (516) 673-0440
NEW ENGLAND SUMMER JOBS:
Want to work in the New England area this 
summer? The Cape Cod Summer Job Bureau 
is looking for college students to work on 
the New England seaside resort areas of Cape 
Cod (Massachusetts) and the off-shore 
islands of Nantucket and Martha's Vineyard 
during the summer break. Apparently, 
there's been a labor shortage because of the 
increase in tourismso theyre offering 
wages 35-40% higher than the pay similiar 
jobs offer elsewhere in the country.
For more information about these job 
opportunities and housing, send a long 
SASE to:
Cape Cod Summer Job Bureau 
P.O. Box 594 
Room 14
Barnstable, MA 02630 
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS 
PROGRAM IN HAWAII:
Maybe you prefer to be out of the
continental U.S. this summer. The Univ
ersity of Hawaii at Manoa is offering a sum
mer program for international business with 
an Asia-Pacific focus. The program will em
phasize areas such as international market
ing, financial management, and comparative 
business (East and West), and it offers the 
following:
14 international business courses 
An intensive language program in 
Chinese and Japanese 
A 29-day Field Study Abroad program 
to industrial centers and companies in 
Japan, Taiwan, Korea, Hong Kong, and 
the Peoples Republic of China.
The program will be offered in two sixweek sessions, from May 25-August 14, and 
will be conducted by scholars from Asia, 
Europe, and the U.S. Participants are 
expected to come from 22 different countries.
Interested students should apply for the N. 
H. Paul Chung Awards and National Re
source Fellowships (deadlines for appli
cations are April 1, 1987, and February 13,
1987 respectively).
For further information, contact: 
Coordinator, Student Programs 
Pacific Asian Management Institute 
University of Hawaii, CBA-C202 
2404 Maile Way, Honolulu, HI 
96822 
(808) 948-7564 
SUMMER SCHOOL IN AUSTRIA:
For those of you who would rather study 
abroad in Europe, the University of New 
Orleans is offering its annual summer 
school program in Innsbruck, Austria 
for more information:
UNO-INNSBRUCK-1987 
C/O International Study Programs 
Box 1315
University of New Orleans 
New Orleans, LA 70148 
(504)286-7116 I
The Spotlight continues to shine on the Film Club
continued from Page 11
endeavor, one that was specifically designed 
to be entered in a film contest.
Future plans do not include additional use 
of 16mm film because of the expense and 
inconvenience involved with filming and 
editing. Video is another format the club 
would like to use, however at this time they 
lack the equipment needed or funds to rent 
the equipment. Some members of the club 
have their own Super 8 outfits, so other 
mediums will have to wait until sometime 
in the future.
But despite the setbacks, Field is looking 
ahead optimistically. In addition to the
renewed Senate funding, the short life of last 
semester's project leaves a stronger financial 
backing for new undertakings. Field 
speculates: "We'll have plenty of money.
We'll do Super 8 this semester. Hopefully 
we can expand and we can sponsor films of 
our own. Not like the films in 2210, 
though; our own 8mm films."
With budgetary and equipment problems 
behind them, the club is now looking for 
more students to get involved. No 
experience is needed; it doesn't take too long 
to learn to use a camera.
There was a similar club on this campus 
more than 10 years ago, but it faded away.
This second generation hopes to regain the 
large membership and amount of equipment 
it had, and once again become a major club.
Field expresses concern for the lack of 
attention the administration is giving to 
film. "I don't know why [CFA] got rid of 
[their film courses] in the first place, but I 
think it's definitely a need, considering the 
people that they turn out. To have 
them not tilm literate is a mistake. Not 
everyone's going to wind up in theater... 
People whose careers might eventually be in 
film should check it out at the amateur 
level." The only film courses currently 
available to Carenegie Mellon students are at
Pittsburgh Filmmakers. Credit for courses 
taken is transferrable to CMU.
Even if CFA reinstated film courses, nonCFA students would probably not have the 
opportunity to take one, since most Fine 
Arts courses are closed to other colleges.
The club, however, is for all Carnegie 
Mellon students. "This is something that 
everyone can get involved with, and it's fun 
and interesting....There's a lot of potential 
but we...need a core constituency, a base of 
people who are willing to stick with us."
The Carnegie Mellon Film Club meets 
every Friday at 4:30pm in PH 126A.
YOU ARE NOTALONE*
Coping with school and personal problems isn't easy, 
group at the Counseling Center can be helpful.
Many people find that joining a
kDtD.ot. dubeddUU
Leam how to cope with academic and personal pressures.
4 Thursdays, beginning March 5.4:30 - 5:30 p.m.
seDiot. xua uae Di,mami Dn-debF
Information about the alcohol abuser and ways to intervene with the heavy drinker.
3 Wednesdays, beginning March 4. at 5:00 - 6:00 p.m.
Druebuam-.audF
A support group for women who would like to talk about their feelings following an abortion.
3 Tuesdavs. beginning March 3. at 4:30 - 5:30 p.m.
.euuot. Dimt.F
Dealing with roommate conflict.
3 Mondavs. beginning March 2. at 5:00 - 6:00 p.m.
Phone 268-2822, or visit the Counseling & Student Development Center, Morewood Gardens, E Tower, Room 103, for more information and registration
?Sponsored by Counseling & Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanFebruary 17, 1987
Basketball Finals, Rosters Due - The IM Report
Sports in Season 
Darts
Commissioner - Paul Pecora 621-9125 
Please get Playoff matches completed. 
Backgammon 
Commissioner - Shu Lee x3680 
Please get finals played 
Basketball 
Commissioners 
Majors - Dee Nyzio x4608 
Intermediate - Vince Carozza x5494 
Minors - Mike Grzywinski x4651 
Women - Dee Nyzio x4608 
Standings are posted on the IM Board. 
Please note change in Basketball Schedule. 
It is not too late to join the Officials'
Club! Contact Mike Mastroianni at x2214 
after 4 PM to join.
Please play all games as scheduled. 
Standings Going Into Finals:
Majors 
Beta-A (6-0)
City Kids (6-1)
Son of Buster H. (5-1)
ATO Wolfpak (4-1)
SAE-A (4-2)
The MBA (4-2)
(Honorable Mention - UNLV (5-3), 
Alabama Slammers (4-3))
Intermediates 
The Squad (6-0)
Fixers (6-0)
Beta's Ducks (5-0)
Merc. Poison. (4-0)
CMDS (6-0)
Pioneers (6-0)
DU (4-1)
Sigma Nu -A (4-1)
Injured Res. (5-1)
Theta Xi (4-2)
Minors 
The Scuntas (6-0)
Sold Short (6-0)
Stars& Stripes(5-0)
AEPi (5-0)
Bride of Buster H.(5-0)
GSIA (5-1)
DU-A (5-1)
Sigma Nu (4-1)
Z-Crew (4-1)
Bow Wow Wows (4-1)
Kappa Sig (3-1)
Floor Hockey 
Commissioners
Majors - Rob Schlackman x5518 
Minors - Mike Grzywinski x4651 
Please play all games as scheduled.
Snorts Coming so 
dinochle
Commissioner - Vince Carozza x5494 
Games will start next week.
Handball 
Commissioner - EJ. Birdy x2214 
Final entry date was Feb. 12.
Water Basketball 
Commissioner - Hal Levine x4077 
Lifeguard - Greg Garrison x4570 
League play started Feb. 9.
Wrestling 
Commissioner - Joe Kuefler 661-9375 
Practice times - Monday - Friday 3:30 to 
4:45 PM
IM Tournament will be held Saturday, 
March 14 at 9 AM.
Mr. Adams will officiate this year's match. 
START WORKING OUT TODAY!
Table Tennis (singles and doubles) 
Commissioner - Stuart Fox x4259 
Each player and/or team must pay the 
forfeit fee before being able to play.
Tournament play starts next week.
Check IM board for schedules.
ROSTERS DUE THIS WEEK 
Due Feb. 19 
Team Call Pool - Commissioner - Vic 
Banko x5403 
Individual Call Pool - Commissioner - Vic 
Banko x5403 
Co-Rec Badminton - Commissioner - Mr. 
Birdy x2214 
Foul Shooting - Commissioner - Mike 
Mastroianni x2214 
Co-Rec Table Tennis - Commissioner - 
Stuart Fox x4259 
Due Feb. 26 
Indoor Soccer 
Weightlifting 
Please Sign Up in the IM Office.
Thrre-Qn-Tljires, BasKstfrall
AFROTC and the IM Dept, will conduct a 
Three-on-Three tournament for all nonvarsity 
players. Final entry date will be Monday, 
March 2. Tournament will be held 
the weekend of March 7 & 8.
Commissioners 
Dave Nardozzi x5438 
Mike Mastroianni x2214 
There will be a $3 entry fee for the 
Tournament 
Get your team together and sign up now! 
Entry forms can be picked up in IM Office. 
Next Meeting
Thursday, Feb. 19th 12:30 in Gym 
Conference Room.
Intramural Night - March 5
7 PM Intermediate Basketball Final
8 PM Awards to ALL IM Champs to 
date.
8:30 Major League Basketball Final - BE 
THERE!
Fencing Team 
Dominates in 
Interstate Meet
By PHIL VERDIECK
Tartan Staffwriter
This past Saturday the Carnegie Mellon 
Fencing teams welcomed clubs from CaseWestern, Cleveland State, Allegheny, and 
California University of Pennsylvania in a 
seven-hour fencing tournament Carnegie 
Mellon's teams proved dominant over all the 
competitors at the meet
In this meet both men and women 
competed. The women sent their foil squad, 
while the men were represented by foil, epee 
and sabre squads. In addition Carnegie 
Mellon provided a sabre squad for California 
University. This evened out the competition 
by sparing CUP from forfeiting all their 
sabre bouts, and provided some of the fencers 
with extra experience. In each weapon the 
men fenced nine bouts against their 
opponent's respective squad, while the 
women fenced anywhere from nine to sixteen 
bouts.
At the end of the day both the men's and 
women's teams took first place. The men 
rolled over both CUP (div. Ill) and 
Allegheny (div. II) with scores of 21-6 and 
25-2, respectively. Case-Western (div. Ill) 
and CSU (div. I) proved harder to vanquish at 
17-10 and 16-11, respectively. The women 
easily cut through Allegheny (12-0), but 
then lost to Case-Western (9-7). California 
and Cleveland State fought hard, but lost, 
with respective scores of 9-7 and 7-5.
This week Carnegie Mellon hosts PennState Fayette on Tuesday, then travels to 
Penn State at College Park to take on Penn 
State, Johns-Hopkins, Temple and 
Columbia on Saturday.
rEhe CMU Law Ctu6
invites YOU
to argue
Capital Punishment
Pro or Con
Any Individual 
Any Group
Come to our meeting 
Wednesday at 8pm in BH 246A 
or call x4386
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center 268-2992
After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator will help you reach the staff 
member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh............................................................. 782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive listening
Drug Connection................................................................... 854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 5 - 9 pm
Tel-Aid.................................................................................... 281-4664
A Series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safety issues. 
Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs
Now.. .Two Pregnancy Testing Locations
Oakland
Room 212 
Park vaie Plaza Buildings 
3520 Fbrbes Ave. (oor. Meyran) 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
(412) 683-3730
Downtown
107 Sixth Street 
300 Fulton Building 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
(412) 562-1900
Womens Health Services
FYee pregnancy testing daily. Call for hours and instructions. 
Abortion services and confidential counseling available.

---------------------------------------------------

February 17, 1987The TartanPage 15
Moffatt Named All-America
By DON GAMBLE
Tartan Sports Editor
The College Sports Information Directors 
of America (CoSIDA) has recently named 
Carnegie Mellon Sophomore Daren Moffatt 
District II All-America, a distinction 
bestowed only on outstanding athletes with 
academic records to match. Moffatt, a 67", 
215 pound forward on Carnegie Mellon's 
Basketball Team, fulfills the requirements 
for this honor.
Eligibility for the Academic All-America 
Award is determined by the athletes 
performance, but by his GPA as well.
Candidates must be a starter or on valuable 
reserve for the team, and must have a 3.2 
GPA or better. Moffatt began as a starter 
this season, after being named Freshman-ofthe-Year by Coach Anderson last season. To 
date he is averaging 3.8 points and 3.9 
rebounds per game for the Tartans, though 
earlier this season he posted season-highs of
10 points and 10 rebounds. While playing at 
his best for the Tartans, he has also managed 
to achieve a 3.7 GPA in Electrical and 
Computer Engineering. Moffatt will now be 
placed on the ballot for the election of the 
national Academic All-America Award.
Womens Hoops
Continued from Page 16
opponents by nine percent. Monica Yustak 
led all scorers netting eight buckets, while 
teammate Carolyn Cochrane also broke into 
the double figures with 11 points, Yustak 
and Cochrane were also the leading 
rebounders for Grove City, pulling down 10 
boards apiece.
Grove City proved tough defensively as the 
hosts had 15 steals to Carnegie Mellon's 10.
Last Wednesday proved another 
disappointing day for the hoopsters, as they 
sent Conference rival, Thiel College, back 
home with a 78-70 win. The Tartans stood 
up to their visitors, equalling their second 
half score and falling only four baskets short 
of the mark in the first half, putting them 
back 40-38. These eight points proved 
crucial, as they were the eventual game 
winners.
Senior captain Val Sooky led the Tartans 
with 20 points, while sophomores Lisa 
Lightner and Sparrow broke into the double 
figures as well, scoring 16 and 13 tallies,
respectively. Lightner and Sparrow led the 
squad defensively also, tearing down 14 
rebounds between them. Sparrow shone 
from the floor, as she hit 75 percent of her 
attempts.
Again, the foul line proved beneficial to 
the Tartans, as the squad hit a game total of 
82 percent of its shots, while netting 91 
percent of its attempts in the first half. The 
women played a tough defensive game, also, 
as they forced Thiel into 19 turnovers.
Thiel's Julie Sierota led all scorers and 
rebounders, tallying a game-high 21 points 
and pulling down 12 boards. Mariana Tice 
and Theresa Collins hit the double figures 
also, scoring 16 and 12 points, respectively.
The hoopsters will wrap up their season 
this week with two home Conference games. 
The Bisons from Bethany College will be in 
town this evening for a 6:00 p.m. tip-off, 
while Thursday will find the Tartans hosting 
the First Ladies of Washington and Jefferson 
College.
Raytheon 
Communications 
Systems
The Equipment Development Laboratories of Fortune-100 Raytheons Equip
ment Division are seeking candidates to join a small, start-up organization of 
engineers and scientists researching Al technology for application to a wide 
range of communications and radar systems applications.
Raytheon EDL is an internationally respected leader in the research, design, 
and development of advanced communication and radar systems for U.S. and 
international government agencies. The individuals we seek to join our new 
Al laboratory will be enhancing our reputation in this area and helping to formu
late our future directions through exploratory development of knowledgebased systems in the following areas:
? Signal Processing? Management Decision Aids? Distributed Real-Time Systems Implementation
? Fault Diagnostics? Image Recognition
Our Al laboratory maintains strong ties to neighboring MIT and works with 
state-of-the-art program development environments. In this highly productive 
environment, our researchers are extending the current bounds of knowledge 
representation theory as we seek solutions to real-world problems.
Raytheon EDL is one of the largest, most successful and fastest growing divi
sions of Raytheon and our Artificial Intelligence exploratory development pro
gram represents one of our most important long-term programs. The success
ful candidates who join us will also become an important part of Raytheons 
overall commitment to technical excellence, and join a tradition of technologi
cal achievements that range from the first mass production of radar systems 
and the first successful guided missile flight, to the first electronic depth 
sounder, the first laser signal bounced off the moon and the discovery of micro
wave cooking.
If interested in Raytheon EDLs Al communications systems opportunities, 
please forward your resume and a cover letter outlining your Al interests to:Mr. Robert Beaudet, Dept. Al, Raytheon Company, Equipment Development Laboratories, 528 Boston Post Rd., Sudbury, MA 01776.U.S. Citizenship required. An Equal Opportunity Employer.
Raytheon
Where quality starts with furuiiinu'Mals.
Tartan Sports This Week...
Mens Basketball
February 17 Bethany College (H) 8 PM 
February 19 Washington and Jefferson (H) 8PM
Women's BasketballFebruary 17 Bethany College (H) 6 PM February 19 Washington and Jefferson (H) 6 PM
Swimming
February 26 - 28 PAC Championships @ Washington and Jefferson
Fencing
February 17 Penn State-Fayette (H) 5:30 PM February 21 Penn State University, Johns Hopkins, Temple & Columbia @ Penn State 9 AM
Hockey
February 22 Duquesne @ Lakeview Ice Palace 8 PM
The most exciting few hours you'll spend all week.
Run. Climb. Rappel. Navigate. Lead.
And develop the confidence and 
skills you wont get from a textbook.
Enroll in Army ROTC
as one of vour electives. Get the facts
today. BE ALL YOU CAN BE.
Sign up for 30-205
SELF DEVELOPMENT & SURVIVAL SKILLS
ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS
ICiC B-7 268-2205

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan Sports
Moffatt. Sikora Have Outstanding GamesHoopsters Find Strength in Sophomores
By STEWART LEVINE 
Tartan Staffwriter 
The season closes this week for the men's 
basketball Tartans with the realization that 
three starters will not be back next year. 
However, if last week was any indication, 
they dont have that much to worry about, 
since Carnegie Mellon was able to find two 
new leaders from among their sophomores. 
Wednesday night against Thiel (5-14,3-7), 
guard David Sikora came off the bench to 
score a career high 14 points and grab 14 
rebounds in the Tartans' dismantling of the 
Tomcats 91-73. On Saturday, forward Daren 
Moffatt led Carnegie Mellon with a career 
high 19 points in a heartbreaking loss at 
Grove City (10-10,7-3) 53-52.
Last month when the Tomcats and Tartans 
had met, it had been a rough night for the 
Tartans. Thiel came out hard at the 
beginning to take a twelve point lead 
midway through the first half, only to have 
the Tartans come right back and take a two 
point lead at halftime. The teams then 
stayed close the rest of the way, with senior 
cocaptain David Barts jump shot with three 
seconds left providing the difference in the 
Tartans' 83-81 victory.
Wednesday night's game looked to be 
another barnburner. Hot hands early by 
senior center Pete Cwalina and Bart paced 
Carnegie Mellon while a balanced Tomcat 
attack kept Thiel in the game with the 
Tartans owning a slim 34-33 halftime lead.
The second half started and the Tartans 
came out running. After trading baskets, the 
Tartans pulled ahead to take a 47-37 lead 
three minutes into the half. Hot second half 
shooting (22 of 33) paced by senior guard 
Roger DeVries's 16 second half points put 
the game away. Thiel was able to get as 
close as six points with nine minutes left, 
but the Tartans then went on another tear 
outscoring Thiel 14-2 over the next four 
minutes to take a commanding 75-55 lead. 
From there the Tartans simply coasted to a 
91-73 victory.
Five Tartans finished the night in double 
figures with Cwalina leading all comers with 
17 points. He was closely followed by 
DeVries at 16, Bait's 15, Sikora's 14, and 
Darryl Long's 12. The leading scorer for 
Thiel was Randy Deer who had 15 for the 
Tomcats.
The Tartans had also beaten Grove City in 
their first meeting this season. Domination 
of the backboards and a torrid 71% shooting 
second half shooting sent Carnegie Mellon 
past the Wolverines 82-61 in a game where 
four Tartans, Bart, DeVries, injured center 
Hart Coleman, and Cwalina all hit double 
figures.
Saturdays game also started slowly with 
neither team able to hit early shots. With 
five minutes left in the first half, David 
Sikora drove the lane to put the Tartans 
ahead 23-22. The next five minutes were all 
Grove Citys. The Wolverines scored the 
next twelve points building a 34-23 lead. 
Finally, Darryl Long was able to convert a 
free throw to break the Tartans cold streak, 
which was immediately answered by Grove 
City's Deron Ryan's bomb for three points. 
Long was able then to hit a jump shot at the 
buzzer to close the gap to 37-26 at halftime.
The second half looked to continue the 
Tartans' woes with Deron Ryan making an 
eighteen footer to put the Wolverines back 
up by thirteen, 39-26. It was then that the 
Tartans made their move. A halftime switch 
from a three-two zone to man-to-man defense 
stymied Grove City while the Tartans rattled 
off nine unanswered points to close within 
four points with thirteen minutes left 
The Tartan defense then stayed tight, but
Vvitmn the next week, tiie up-and-down season will end for the Tartans.
Inside...
Carnegie Mellon 
Fencing Team 
Dominates 
Interstate 
Tournament
The Intramural 
Report, with 
Final Hoops 
Standings
Tartan Sports 
Calendar
the offense sputtered. Foul trouble hurt the 
Tartans with four players, Moffatt, Long, 
Sikora, and Cwalina all playing in the 
second half with four fouls, leaving the 
Tartans only one experienced big man, 
junior David Smith to spell Moffatt, Long, 
and Cwalina. With the starters sharing time 
on the bench the offense sputtered. After, 
Deron Ryan hit another bomb from outside 
to put Grove City 50-46, Darryl Long made 
a fast break layup to pull within two. 
Cwalina then fouled Grove City's Joe 
Buckley who missed the front end of his one 
and one. Soon the Tartans found Moffatt 
underneath whose basket iced the game at SO
SO with 2:20 left
Grove Citys Bryan Wenger missed the go 
ahead shot which Darryl Long pulled down. 
But Long was unable to hit his shot at the 
other end and Grove City came up with the 
ball, calling time out with 1:17 left. Grove 
City Coach John Barr then called a surprise. 
With 1:00 left, Steve Carlson let go a 
mammoth twenty-one footer whch hit 
nothing but the net putting the Wolverines 
up 53-50. Thirteen seconds later, David Bart 
hit from eighteen feet to pull within one. 
David Sikora's fifth foul then sent Dave 
Cannon to the line with twelve seconds left. 
Cannon missed the free throw and the 
Tartans immediately called time out The 
inbound went to Bart who found Moffatt 
outside, who missed his only shot from the 
floor that night Long's shot on the rebound 
also bounced out. Moffatt finally tipped it 
in, after the buzzer as the Tartans lost 53-52.
The loss drops the Tartans (9-12,5-5) into 
third place in the PAC, four games behind 
league leading John Carroll and two behind 
second place Grove City. The Tartans close 
out the season with two games at home, 
Tuesday night against Bethany and Thursday 
against Washington and Jefferson. Both 
games begin at 8:00 pm and will be 
broadcast live on WRCT.
As Season Winds To A CloseLady Tartans Lose Two More
By JILL DORSON
Tartan Contributing Editor
The Women's Hoop Squad added another 
slash in the loss column last Saturday, as it 
traveled to Grove City College for its last 
away game of the season. The low scoring 
game proved the Tartans perfect guests, as 
they fell victim to their hosts 42-33.
The game was slow and low-scoring on 
both sides, as Grove City could only manage 
to tally 21 points in each half. The Tartans 
racked up 18 and 15 points in the first and
second stanzas, respectively.
Shooting 88 percent from the foul line 
proved fruitful to the guests, as the squad 
netted 14 of its 33 points in foul shots. 
Freshman Donna Spicuzza led the team with 
11 points and 12 rebounds, while sophomore 
Patti Sparrow was the next highest scorer 
with eight tallies and seven caroms.
Grove City, while shooting only 29 
percent from the line, hit 35 percent of their 
attempts from the floor to outdo their
 Continued on Page 15
Scoreboard
Men's Basketball 
Carnegie Mellon 91 
Thiel 73
Grove City 53 
Carnegie Mellon 52
Women's Basketball 
Thiel 78
Carnegie Mellon 70
Grove City 42 
Carnegie Mellon 33
Women's Fencing 
Carnegie Mellon 9 
California U. 7
Carnegie Mellon 7 
Cleveland State 5
Men's Fencing 
Carnegie Mellon 21 
California U. 7
Carnegie Mellon 25 
Allegheny 2
Carnegie Mellon 17 
Case Western 10
Carnegie Mellon 16 
Cleveland State 11
Carnegie Mellon 12 
Allegheny 0
Case Western 9 
Carnegie Mellon 7

---------------------------------------------------

u^RAPI RePADLnG*a
"I* 
i 1 /.
  C(9
T  N
s
/

---------------------------------------------------

1
Mackerel Sky
Done. Already this thing is past. 
Following the rifts up the cobbled hill, 
with the sea-spray. and the thin, gi 1 led 
clouds like slick fish in a darkling sky. 
Turning, then, at the gate, we stood 
with our backs to the cliffs  Ahoo!
Our words toppling like polished stones. 
A brush of eel grass, the glint of a ring, 
the dim ripple and pull of the tide: 
each thing glimpsed as in remembrance, 
as if we had returned there from the future 
to touch the things that we'd held dear, 
know ing the beginning, middle, and end. 
counting each at once, then and now.
David Yezzi 
I

---------------------------------------------------

Letting Winter
Those "certain things" slip by again this year: 
the drive to Stockbridge for the change of leaves, 
remounting gutters, paint for rotting eaves.
The lights come on at five along the pier, 
as shorter days leave more and more undone, 
and hours of waiting slump in early sleep. 
Tonight, leaves burning on the compost heap, 
the frost takes hold; ice forms on Wheaton's run. 
The wind bites like angina off the bay, 
as fall lets go its grip upon the land,
November taking hold with brittle hands.
The losses multiply themselves each day, 
a succesion of defeats and then the snow. 
Accepting, now, feels more like letting go.
David Yezzi

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Saint Joan
A soldier in Fiorrucci jeans 
Wears her hair down low;
Drives a red convertable so she can grin 
At passing cars and lick her lips 
At rear view mirrors.
Confidence reflected in the way she weaves 
Thru crowded malls and parked cars.
She gets the best deals and the men 
In the bars where she goes with her friends 
Who want to be her.
She pays the bills and puts gas in her car 
So she can go and show the people who she is 
And they want to be her 
Because her Fiorrucci jeans fit just right 
And she doesn't need anyone;
A twentieth century Joan of Arc 
Because her words are pearls 
And she knows what to say to the masses 
Who ask for her phone number.
On a rainy night she'll drive the Siamese to the vet 
Or listen to the women who make up stories 
To get her quality time 
But when she goes home she reads graffitti 
In elevators and hopes therell be a message 
On the machine. In bed she lies awake 
Listening to footsteps in the hall and doors opening 
To places far-away.
Michele Osherow

---------------------------------------------------

Curt Wohleber
Mysteries of My Heart
Murder, like springtime, demands action. It draws us to 
our feet, asks questions, awaits answers with a heavy silence. 
The investigation goes on. But each day the conspiracy of 
the City grows, shaping new horrors, taking new lives.
Were in the back room at Larry's: two walls of 
cinderblock, two of chipped plasterboard, a table littered with 
wrinkled napkins and spent glasses. We are the Investigators 
of the conspiracy, Casey, Boyd, Flynn, Andromalos, and me.
Casey pages through her note pad thoughtfully. "We 
know the Printers Guild is in on it. And the streetsweepers, 
the computer salesmen from Spectronics, the Hellfire Club, 
the bass player from that jazz group we saw at the Blue 
Parrot."
Boyd lurks behind his drink, eyes dark, prismatic. I 
suspect Boyd.
"Drugs," says Andromalos. "Gambling, prostitution, 
gun running."
"It's really big," I say. There is strange comfort in the 
obvious, no matter how awful it is.
The Coroners Report is due out soon, to be delivered here 
by security couriers: armed eunuchs skilled in silent killing, 
track and field events.
Today's victim was found face down in Miner's Park, a fat 
man surrounded by a dirty nimbus of bloodied snow.
Multiple stab wounds. Men in white hefted him onto a 
stretcher. The ebbing heat of the freshly dead body was 
enough to melt much of the snow beneath it, exposing a 
ragged stubble of gray-green grass. We all took notes, 
guarding them jealously.
"What do you think the report will say?" asks Casey. 
"Anything we dofrt know already?"
"It won't say death by natural causes," says Boyd.
"Is it so unnatural to die by multiple stab wounds?" says 
Flynn. "Rather than to wait past our shelf life, for cancer, 
senility. Perhaps our rightful destiny is to be devoured by 
the world, to fall in the dance of violence and terror. It seems 
somehow right to leave this world soaked in crimson, the 
color of autmn, of sunsets."
Andromalos looks at Flynn and straightens inside his 
tweed carapace. We turn to him expectantly, ready to absorb 
his words. Andromalos is brilliant. His intellect is so huge 
and beautiful it shines with its own tightly focused light.
His mind is like a surgical laser, vaporizing cataracts and 
conundrums. Andromalos doesn't solve crimes, he destroys 
them: the means and the motives, the details and logistics 
wither under his scrutiny, every sordid event rendered an inert

---------------------------------------------------

sequence of cause and effect. The crime is pithed on 
corkboard, vivisected, catalogued, disintegrated. Passions and 
fears become neurons and synapses in the brain, electrons and 
nuclei, bits of bundled energy spinning in the quantum realm 
of calculated uncertainty.
Andromalos says nothing after clearing his throat. We 
settle back in our seats, a little depressed, aroused and 
unfufilled. I try to ponder the significance of this. I try to 
ponder the meaning of the fat man's murder, its place in the 
conspiracy of the City.
But sometimes I can't bear to think of it, what is said 
when it all comes together, when the connections are made, 
what it means to me and to you and to everyone else.
No one completely understands the conspiracy of the 
City. Parts of it are perceived dimly. Andromalos revealed 
the subtle connection between the execution-style murder of 
Emma Lawson, second grade teacher at P.S. 64, and the 
disaappearance of fourteen pounds of weapons-grade 
plutonium from the military installation at West End.
"Its so big it goes all the way up to the mayor," says 
Flynn. "It goes all the way up to God."
Flynn understands it more than I do. So does Casey. 
Andromalos understands more than anybody. But I have my 
suspicion of Boyd for my very own; this is my terror and my
joyRats live behind the wainscotting in my apartment.
What if the others knew of the rodents that scraped and rustled 
behind the walls of my efficiency? My God, we never knew 
That explains everything about you Jack. That haunted, 
haunted look. The look of a man with rats behind his 
wainscotting.
Boyd is looking at me. I wonder what he sees. He 
suspects my suspicion. I see Death in his face. Boyd and 
Death. Death and Boyd. They feed each other; Boyd seems 
to expand, become ancient, archetypical, bristling with 
menace.
Am I suspect? Andromalos' eyes are fathomless. He 
would not suspect me; my innocence, I am afraid, is 
something obvious and basic to him, like gravity. Does he 
suspect Boyd? Does he love Casey, as I do? It is vital that 
Casey does not learn of my feelings for her. She is married, 
and knowledge of the mysteries of my heart could disturb her, 
make her distrustful of me, even suspicious. It would affect 
her objectivity, imperil the effort to crush this bloated 
conspiracy.
I could kill Boyd. The thought gives me a rush, a heady 
blast of fascination and dread. I am amazed at the intensity of 
sensation brought on by this simple thought. I imagine it 
happening, across the railroed tracks on that lunar landscape 
of slag and ash, beneath vapor lamps hinting the features of 
the sooty, brick buildings nearby. I shoot Boyd; the recoil of 
my .38 pulses through me as his chest blossoms red. He 
pitches forward, claws the ground, dies.
"What if one of us were in on it?" Asks Boyd. "What 
would it do to the investigation?"
Andromalos grunts. "Our facts would be tainted by deceit 
and misdirection. Days, months of work wasted."
"Disaster," says Flynn. "Perhaps death for some."
"Boyd," says Casey, "are you saying we should be 
working separately?"
Boyd nods. "Perhaps we should. It might be safer."
What did he mean? "But the conspiracy is too large for 
any one person," I say.
Flynn intones whinily: "It grows, surrounds, engulfs, 
darkens."
"Separately we would be working against each other," 
says Andromalos.
"I agree," says Casey, shaping the syllables with full, red 
lips. Lips that make me think of cherry Lifesaver. I have 
imagined kissing those lips, her breath sweet, like a cherry 
Lifesaver, her embrace, and a void within me, like the center 
of a cherry Lifesaver, is filled.
I excuse myself to go to the Men's Room. The lavatory 
at Larry's emanates the eerie effluvium of ancient squalor. I 
rinse my hands with tepid water and see myself in the mirror. 
I look bad under fluorescent light. Large pores. Haunted, 
hunted.
The door swings open. Boyd enters. I see him in the 
mirror. He nods. "Jack." My existence summed up in a 
monosyllable. I pretend to adjust my belt, and reach for my 
gun.
We find ourselves facing each other, both of us armed.
"How did you know, Jack?"
"It had to be someone sooner or later. That's how these 
things work. Now what?"
"Someone dies. I dont want to kill you, really. Things 
just happen this way."
"What if I kill you?"
He shrugs. "Its all the same. You're part of it too now. 
Either way, a death, feeding the enigma, adding to its fear and 
mystery."
I squeeze the trigger. Boyd slams back against the Towelo-matic and crumples to the floor, his gun clattering against 
tile. I feel a quiet thrill, a spreading sickness. This is what 
it's all about. Boyd trembles on the floor, moaning, heaving. 
I kneel beside him, watching him bleed, silently trying to 
mouth the words that comfort the dying.

---------------------------------------------------

 i
 V
 
 
 9
* V  tTHANKSGIVING
y*
   V I* 
r
B a
/
* #  ^ A.
* .:*./* j
S 
. ., - *. * .. *t: *
1 * . ' *. '**. w 4> -H
   # / ? r 
* * * ?* / .i *.ti 
* *    r : * -.>v .X*. *
:

---------------------------------------------------

I'm nervous. I don't know exactly why. Mother isn't 
home yet and it's raining, raining very hard, raining so hard 
my window seems to be cracking. Father's nervous too. I 
know father's nervous. I'm in my room but I hear father's 
shoes squeaking through the air ducts; our house is so tight. 
He's downstairs. He's pacing back and forth. I hear him open 
the door and I know he's going outside. Not only is it 
storming, but it's dark, very darknot even half a moon. And 
my mother hates to drive. She has always hated to drive. She 
also dislikes storms. The lightning frightens her. It always 
has. Father likes to sit outside during storms. He likes to 
walk along the outer edge of the pines when it's raining. And 
my mother always worries, always. She worries about getting 
hit by lightning, about car accidents. Her father died in a car 
accident.
She usually refuses to even drive when it's storming. Last 
spring, my father went out of town the week of parent teacher 
conferences. Mother made an appointment to drive from St. 
Charles to Washington D.C., alone, on the freeway. She was 
nervous about it. At the last minute, she called my teacher.
She couldn't make it; she was too busy. She asked, "Is there 
anything in particular you wanted to talk to me about?" And 
Dr. Carmonethat's what he told us to call him, Dr. Carmone 
must have told her that I didn't get along with the other kids 
in the class. When I came home mother said I should talk 
more often, that I shouldn't read as much. She said she was 
afraid I was mal-adjusted.
This year, because of my brother, everybody thinks I'm a 
good kid. They think everything I do I do because I'm 
mourning Chris. When I make a mess in the bathroom at 
school, when I refuse to talk during class. I'm given a lot of 
attention too; people are concerned about me. I don't 
understand algebra and my teacher stays after school in the 
afternoon to help me. I stole a box of pencils from the 
supply cabinet in home room one evening last week, while 
Mr. Moore was in his office, after the other kids had gone 
home. When I got home I buried them under the old brown 
pine needles in the back yard, dug out a little hole in the black 
earth near where some of the other stuff I had taken is laying. 
It's raining so hard I'm afraid it's stirring up all the earth, 
uncovering all the things I've buried, and tomorrow morning, 
when father walks, his hiking boots squishing into the mud, 
he'll stumble over the pencils, the hat, the book I stole from 
Daniel. He'll shake me awake. He'll say, "What have you 
been doing? Why have you been doing this?"
Everything's different since Chris died, more quiet, more 
uncertain. Mother is still afraid of storms, of cars, but she 
drives anyway, late at night, in the rain. Father watches 
television all the time. He likes black and white movies that 
are on cable. He told us during dinner last night that he didn't 
want to miss tonight's. It's about a messenger pigeon during 
World War II that saves a battalion of soldiers. Commanders 
attach codes to its claw and it flies over the sea, spilling 
secrets, saving men. I bet father can't concentrate because 
mother's not home yet. She went to buy groceries for our 
Thanksgiving dinner. She realized she didn't have anything to 
cook for Thanksgiving and I thought she was going to cry.
She pounded the counter in the kitchen, kept saying, "stupid, 
stupid, stupid." She insisted on going to the supermarket 
alone.
Father paces from the front porch to the back porch when 
he's nervous. He wears a really mean look on his face, like 
he's mad, but he's really just nervous. Father never gets mad. 
The front door opens downstairs. I know he's coming inside. 
He's so tall and thin that he has to stoop when he walks in the 
front doorway. He's probably wet. He's probably drip, drip, 
dripping all over the newly-waxed floor in the hallway, 
dripping tothe back door. I hear his feet squishing, the back 
door opens. He's standing in the back now, on the porch that 
he and Chris laid last summer. He's probably staring at the 
pine tree, even though you can't see them this late at night. 
They're just dark shapes, or sometimes they're "crested," as 
mother says, by the moon. But there's not even half a moon 
tonight. I hear the pines brushing together. I bet father left 
tracks all over the hardwood floor. Mother doesn't worry 
about those things anymore. She'll just shrug if she notices 
the tracks. She won't care at all.
I'm angry.
I don't really believe that Chris is dead. He died this 
summer, only a few months ago. It wasn't raining that day. It 
was very warm. I was in a bathing suit. I was wearing a 
bikini and felt self-conscious because I'm pudgy, especially my 
stomach and legs. Mother says it'll go away as I grow up.
She says it's just baby fat. I don't understand that because I'm 
not a baby anymore. I'm eleven. And I'm very intelligent. 
Everyone says so. Chris was intelligent too. He wanted to go 
to Yale. He wanted to be a doctor. He sang such pretty songs 
in the morning. He told me that I was very pretty. That 
someday lots of boys would like me.
The day Chris died I was laying on a blanket in the back 
yard. Mother was at work. She works for the literacy council. 
She helps people to read. She is amazed because so many
people are illiterate in the United States. She thinks it's a 
shame. She's also amazed that utility companies write all their 
literature at the second grade level so that people will 
understand it. "And then," she says, "most people still don't 
understand it." She says I read too much. I was reading the 
day my brother died. I was laying on a blanket reading a 
novel about rabbits, a great novel. I heard my father yell.
"Chris!' he yelled. He yelled my brother's name. I looked 
up towards the roof. Chris and daddy had been tarring it. The 
sun hit my eyes. It was so bright that day, so hot. My black 
sunglasses kept slipping off my nose. I had just taken them 
off, put them on the blanket, near my feet. And the sun hurt 
my eyes when I looked up, and for a moment I couldnt see 
anything, not anything except the veins through my eyelids.
Daddy was on the edge of the roof. And my brother was 
sprawled on the ground, looking very funny. I was afraid to 
look with my eyes wide open. "Christ," my father yelled, or 
maybe it was "Chris," I couldn't tell. I stood up and ran over 
to where my brother was. He was breathing. I could tell he 
was alive because his hand was twitching. His eyes were 
closed. Father called the ambulance. They were there quick, 
so quick I don't remember anything happening; I don;t 
remember the sun becoming any hotter; I don't remember 
father saying anything to me; I don't remember Chris 
sighing. I was there and then they were there. They folded a 
blanket over his face. And I tugged their arm. "Your making 
a mistake," I said. "I saw him moving."
I saw him moving.
Mother rushed into the hospital with her sunglasses on and 
papers falling from her purse. And I heard her, heard her say, 
in the hospital emergency room where there were people 
moving all over the place and so much noise I felt as though 
we were on a crowded beach, or on the school bus. "Christ. 
Christ. What did you do?" She said to my father. "What did 
you do?" He was crying. She was pulling on his arm, 
yelling, and he was trying to press his face into her shoulder. 
He was crying.
I have heard him sobbing at night, after mother and I have 
gone to bed. His voice rasps through the air in the walls.
The television is always on in the background, with bullets 
exploding all over the place and men screaming. Sometimes I 
think I should go to daddy, but I don't know what I'd say.
I hate rainy nights. I don't like Brian at all. He stays 
after on detention every night. I don't think anyone likes 
him. I don't like to ride the bus home after school, too many 
kids and too much noise and I always feel funny. So I hid in 
the bathroom today and then called mother, told her I missed 
my bus. She told me to wait outside, that she would pick me 
up on her way home from work. Brian stayed after school 
today too and we were walking down the hallway to go 
outside; no one else was around except the janitors who clean 
the bathrooms and the chalkboards. Brian grabbed my arm and 
my book fell to the floor. I was upset because when I picked 
it up I realized he had bent the spine and a few pages were 
falling out. He asked me about Chris. I didn't know what to 
say. I began reading aloud from the page that had fallen out. 
He told mel was a weirdo, that he was surprised I wasn't the 
one with brain damage.
Mother wanted to know why I was shaking when I got in 
the car after school today. "Nothing," I said. "I'm just cold." 
She told me to wear my winter coat from now on. "I told you 
to wear your wool coat," she said. "If you get sick it's your 
own fault." She patted my hand while I was fixing my seat 
belt. "Don't you like your new coat?" she aked. She lit a 
cigarette. Her hand was shaking.
On Wednesday night the radio station I listen to usually 
plays top 40 songs, but tonight they're doing flashbacks. I 
guess it has something to do with Thanksgiving. I start to 
dance for no reason at all to "Satisfaction." Chris hated Mick 
Jagger. He hated almost all pop music except the Eagles. He 
thought the Eagles were great. I watch myself move in the 
bevelled mirror near the windowseat and collapse on my bed 
because I feel the fat on my legs and stomach jiggle and 
because I don't believe my green eyes and dull brown hair will 
ever be pretty.
It's pouring so hard that when I look out my window I 
can't even see drops of water hitting the driveway; I just see 
streams everywhere, rushing everywhere. I stole Jenny's ring 
today, during recess. No one knows that I stole it. No one

---------------------------------------------------

even suspects. Her father went to Turkey and he brought her 
back a ring in all sorts of different pieces that fit togethera 
puzzle ring. She showed it to everybody and when I picked it 
up it fell apart. She was mad. She said, "Sarah," really loud 
and everyone stared at me. Over recess, I took it out of her 
desk. It's in a clear plastic container that's sticky and smells 
like mother's cheesecloth. I figured out how to put it together. 
It's silver and shiny, and very heavy. I breath on it, then rub 
it on my shirt to make it even shinier. Since my fingers are 
fat, it only slides onto my pinkie.
Jennys ring cuts into my skin. I take it off. I wrap it in 
an old sock, a red sock that I used to wear with my green and 
red plaid skirt, but I lost the matching one some time ago. I 
lose a lot of things. I get in trouble for that. Jenny was mad, 
of course. She wanted to check everyone's desk. She began to 
cry and said she was going to get in trouble. My teacher said 
that Monday, after Thanksgiving, he will put a box on his 
desk. Whoever took the ring needs to put it in the box 
sometime during the day. He looked at me very carefully and I 
wanted to jump right up then and there and say, "Dont look at 
me that way. Please don't look at me that way." I started to 
sweat. I wanted to leave school early. But I looked right back 
at him. I pretended I didn't notice his gaze.
I'm thinking of something terrible. What if Jenny and 
her mother were at the IGA looking for cranberries or 
something? What if Jenny knows I stole the ring and wasn't 
letting on and told mother, right there in the aisle between the 
pickles and ketchup. What if she told mother that I broke her 
puzzle ring and then I stole it during lunch, snuck in and 
fumbled through her desk while the rest of the class was using 
the bathroom. And that I'm too quiet and that nobody likes 
me. Maybe mother is still talking to them. Trying to decide 
what to do about me. She wonders about that a lot, because 
I'm always losing things or daydreaming too much and spill 
milk in the mornings. She thinks I do it on purpose. She 
says I sneak around when daddy isn't home and do things just 
to make her mad. She takes hold of my shoulders and shakes 
me and shakes me just like I'm a bottle of ketchup and she 
says, "Christ. What am I going to do with you? Christ."
A long time ago daddy suggested that we all go to family 
counselling. And mother said, "No!" She said we were a fine 
family, a happy family.
The phone rings. I jump because it scares me. On the 
second ring the back door slams shut. Father is coming 
inside, quickly. I hear him say hello, very clearly, almost as 
though we are in the room together. And then he calls me.
He doesn't realize how clearly his voice carries. "Sarah," he 
calls. "Sarah. The telephone." Christ, no one ever calls me. 
Who can it be? Maybe it's Mr. Moore. Maybe it's Jenny. 
What if they know about the ring? What if she's calling to 
tell me that she knows about the ring and that nobody likes 
my fat ass anyway. I take my receiver off the hook. I go out 
to the hallway, to the foot of the stairs. I wipe my palms on 
my jeans. They're faded and tom at the knee. I tell father to 
hang the phone up. "Okay, daddy. I've picked it up." I don't 
want him to hear the conversation. I want to be a good kid 
just a little longer. Daddy thinks I'm a good kid.
"Hello," I say.
"Hi, Sarah?"
"Yeah."
"This is Jenny"
"Yeah. Did you find your ring?" I ask. I unwrap the sock 
and her puzzle ring falls to the floor, splitting apart again. I 
smooth the silver edges. Static interrupts the song on the 
radio, the Bay City Rollers. Chris hated the Bay City Rollers. 
The radio goes dead. There's just silent air for a minute.
Jenny says no, she didnt find the ring. "It was a pretty ring." 
I say.
"My father's mad," Jenny says. "He thinks I might have 
lost it, but I told him Mr. Moore knows who stole it."
"Yeah?"
"Father says we have every right to know who took it. He 
says whoever took it is sick. He says somebody needs help 
and we should know who that is. He says it's a matter of 
principle. He's making me call some of the people in class."
"It was a nice ring. Uh oh, my mother's just come home,"
I lie. The rain is pouring even harder and I trace a pattern of 
drops from the inside of the window just as though they form a 
constellation. "I have to help with the groceries." I hang up. 
It isnt true. My mother isnt home. Iwish Chris were here. I 
could tell him what happened. He would help me.
I didn't understand what a brain tumor was. The doctor said 
that's why Chris fell. We didn't see a thing. I looked tumor 
up in the thick red dictionary in the school library this year, 
the way I looked up sodomy after reading a newspaper article 
when I was in fifth grade. The first definition described a 
tumor as being a circumscribed, noninflammatory growth, or 
something like that. And then it said, two, a swollen part. 
Neither one makes sense. I don't understand why we didn't see 
Chris dying. Thats what I don't see. And I don't understand 
why my parents wont talk to me anymore. I don't know why 
he died. I wish mother would stop yelling at me. I told my 
grandmother once that I didn't know why he died. She said, 
"God's will." It all has something to do with God's will.
Some god, I thought. Some god.
I'm laying on my bed staring at the design that makes 
light in the stucco wall of the ceiling. The radio clears up and 
some man announces the nine o'clock news. Rainfall is up 
this year. He says the Chesapeake is flooding. He says 
people are dying in Israel, near the Wailing Wall. He says 
people are dying in hurricanes and volcanoes all over the 
world. And I wish my mother were here, because he's talking 
about literacy. He is talking about a study made on literacy in 
the United States.He says only 76% of American children 
graduate from high school. He says we have the highest 
illiteracy rate of any civilized country in the world. My 
mother would be livid.
I'm playing with the ring while the man talks, taking it 
apart and putting it back together, because I'm nervous. I 
realize anyone can see me playing with Jenny's puzzle ring. I 
have white cape cod curtains that are tacked open with blue 
bows. I can't close the curtains, and my lamp is on. I wrap 
that ring in my sock and put it in my drawer. Mother helped 
me redecorate my bedroom a couple weeks ago. Father said it 
would take our minds off things. It's quiet up here because 
mother and father rarely say anything to one another. 
Sometimes it wakes me up late at night and for a moment I am 
disoriented and think Chris is trying to wake me. His room is 
larger, but it doesn't have as many windows. It's scary at 
night when it rains like it's raining right now. Mother would 
correct me. She would say, "cozy," but if she were up here 
she'd jump; she'd scream if she saw lightning the way I have 
tonight. She'd open my drawer and see the little silver puzzle 
ring and she'd say, "Christ." She'd shake me. She'd begin to 
cry. She'd say, " what am I going to do with you, for 
Chrissakes?"
The headlights on her car flash through my window. I 
listen carefully. I hear the door slide open. My father must 
have heard her too because the storm door slams shut and he 
squishes through the hallway. He says, "I thought you were 
lost." I doubt if he touches her. She is probably already 
walking away from him.
She answers something, but even straining, 
"eavesdropping," my father would say, I can't hear her answer. 
I turn off the radio and put a record on the stereo. It's my 
brother's Hotel California album. I borrowed it right before 
Chris died because I wanted him to think I liked the Eagles. 
Mother doesnt like to hear the album. Im looking out the 
window. In the beam of the search light that father put up a 
few years ago, after some robberies in the neighborhood, I see 
him go out to the station wagon, put a bag of groceries under 
each arm. When I turn around, mother is at the doorway of my 
room. As if by magic. I didn't even hear her climbing the 
stairs to my room. She is petite and has long, dark hair. She 
smiles a lot and everyone tells her she is pretty. I don't know 
what happened to me. Why she's pretty and I'm fatpudgy. 
"Thought you were lost," I say to her. She doesn't say 
anything about the music. "Want to help with the groceries?" 
she asks.

---------------------------------------------------

I don't want to help but she is already walking down the 
stairs and I'm following her. When we get to the bottom stair 
father is stooping through the front door. He's wearing his 
silly yellow raincoat that Chris and I got him for Christmas 
about three years ago. The water wet his hair and rain is 
running down his face. We stand in the hallway, the three of 
us together. We don't say anything. Finally, daddy says that 
mother and I can just start putting stuff away. He says "there 
are only two bags left and I'm bringing them in. There's no 
sense in all of us getting wet."
"Father was nervous tonight," I say to mother. He's 
standing in the doorway, as though he's too tired to get the 
last couple of bags. "I heard him pacing. We were both 
nervous waiting for you. Weren't we, daddy?"
"It's raining hard," mother says. "On the way home 
someone was stopped on the side of the road."
"We were worried sweetheart," daddy says to me. He 
leaves to get the last bag of groceries.
"Do you think it was an accident?" I ask mother.
"What?"
"The car on the side of the road."
"I don't think so," she says. "It looked more like 
someone had a flat tire. There was a woman standing much 
too close to the road, I think." She picks up a bag of
groceries and begins walking to the kitchen. "She had her
head down. But a truck was parked behind her. I think the 
driver was helping her."
"What if he wasn't?" I ask. Mother doesn't answer.
"Look at all the mud daddy tracked in," I yell. I hear the car 
door slam shut.
The telephone rings.
Mother calls me. "Sarah," she says. "Mr. Moore is on
the phone." She has walked in to the hallway. She is
looking at me. Her eyebrows are raised. She is holding the 
phone out towards me.
"Brian wanted to know about Chris today," I say.
"Mother, Brian wanted to know how it feels about Chris." I 
begin to walk back away from her. "I didn't know what to 
say. I don't want to talk to Mr. Moore." I sit on the bottom 
step, almost crying. I rub my palms on my pants legs. I 
begin to pray. "Oh Jesus. Oh Jesus," I say to myself. I 
don't know what else to say. Some god, I think. Some god.
I close my eyes so tight that I don't see any light at all, only 
patterns of colors.
"Sarah." Mother rubs my shoulder. "Mr. Moore is waiting 
to talk to you. Did something happen today at school? Did 
you do something?"
"I don't want to talk to him mother." Mother takes hold 
of my hand, drags me into the kitchen, even though my legs 
are stiff. I open my eyes to look at her. Father is in the 
doorway of the kitchen. I stare at him.
"Mr. Moore wants to talk to Sarah," she explains to 
daddy.
"Why?" he asks. "Has something happened?"
"She says nothing's wrong," mother answers.
"Well let's leave so she can talk to him," daddy says 
puts his hand on mother's shoulder, nudges her out of the 
kitchen.
"Hello," I say.
"Sarah?" Mr. Moore says, sniffing. He has allergies in 
the autumn. "Jenny has called you, I believe."
"Yeah." He knows, I think. Everybody knows.
"She's called me too, Sarah. Sarah" he hesitates. I was 
standing at the classroom door over recess today. I know you 
took the ring."
"No I didn't," I say. I begin to cry. "I didn't take it. Not 
really. I didn't want it."
"I didn't tell Jenny's father who took it, but I did promise I 
would talk to the child's parents. This is the first time you've 
taken anything, isn't it?"
"Of course," I say. Mr. Moore, just this time, please 
dont tell mother and father, please," I whisper.
"Is your father home, Sarah. You won't get in trouble, 
dear. You're probably just a little confused right now, 
you're"
I hang up the phone. I sit on the cold floor. My back is 
pressed against the knob on the cabinet door. The phone rings 
a minute later. Two, three, four times. Father comes into the 
kitchen, reaches over me, answers the phone. I run upstairs to 
my room. My feet are slipping on the stairs. I slam my door. 
Oh no; oh no; oh no. What am I going to do? I seem to lay 
on my bed with my eyes shut for hours. I hear my mother and 
father talking. They are talking about me. They are both 
crying. Mother is saying she doesn't know what to do with 
me. Father is whispering to her. I creep down the stairs.
They are in the living room. The lights are off. The 
television is on, but it is turned down and grey light is 
running all over daddy's face and the back of mother's head, 
making them look sick. They are sitting on the floor. They 
are holding on to one another. They are crying. They don't 
even see me.
I run out the back door. I slam it as hard as I can. I don't 
even have shoes on. I don't have a raincoat. I slip down the 
back stairs. The rain is pouring all over my face. My jeans 
are so heavy and my shirt is heavy and my hair is falling all 
over my face. I run and I run. I feel like a walrus. I hear 
father calling my name. I run to the pine trees. I dig in the 
dirt. Mud is getting under my fingernails and is squishing up 
between my toes. My father is standing above me. Water is 
running down all over his face. I'm sitting on my haunches. 
I've dug up all the items I hid. Things I have stolen are laying 
all over the ground. The pencil box has fallen apart and all 
the pencils are scattered like pick up sticks. Margaret's hat is 
heavy with mud. Someone's locket. The soap I stole from the 
bathroom. Bubble gum packages. I stand up and start 
stomping on them. I stomp them into the ground. I look at 
father. "See," I yell. He wont look at me. He looks at the 
ground. Rain drips off his forehead. He turns around to look 
at the house. Mother is there.
"Look what I've done. Look at me." The kitchen light is 
on in the house. Mother is standing at the door. She is 
looking out at the pines.
A'dora Phillips
T.;:-.*;c. ; A  , . . .*
-s..  i*. : * t; .' <,~r ~v' V

---------------------------------------------------

LITERA T U R E  D E S I GM
Volume 8 Number 3 February 17, 1987
Dossier welcomes submissions from any student 
enrolled at Carnegie Mellon. All manuscripts must 
be typed. Please include your name, address, and 
phone number on a seperate cover sheet. Due to 
plagiarism laws, anonymous submissions and 
submissions under pseudonyms cannot be accepted. 
Submissions may be sent through campus mail to 
Dossier, c/o The Tartan, 103 Skibo, or dropped off 
at the Tartan office, Skibo Room 50.
Literary Editor: Pam Horn 
Art Director: Rick Simner 
Designers: KD Casey
Monty Chomeley-Jones 
Geoff Kaplan 
Andrea Meyer 
Jim Ochsenreiter
Jill Ruby 
Jennie Stoller 
Typesetting: Lee Miller
