FORUMSPORTSPILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
The Rubber Duck Project comes to Pittsburgh  B8Football team celebrates Homecoming victory  A10Twitter wont fall ?at with new IPO  A8
NOL UM
News Co-Editor
As an insider of the war 
in Afghanistan, former U.S. 
Army Lieutenant General 
and former Ambassador 
to Afghanistan Karl Eikenberry spoke last Friday 
about the limits of American political intervention 
to Pittsburgh community 
members, Carnegie Mellon students, faculty, and 
families.
University President 
Subra Suresh introduced 
Eikenberry before his lecture, which took place in 
McConomy Auditorium 
and was a part of Cilidh 
Weekend.
Using examples from his 
experience in Afghanistan, 
Eikenberry stressed that 
making Afghanistan a better place to live is a good 
goal, but should not be of 
national importance. 
According to Eikenberry, 
military leaders stressed 
that there was no other option other than the one that 
they took in directly entering Afghanistan and in?uencing change in terms of 
the countrys economy, educational standards, health 
care, and system of governance.
In his lecture, Eikenberry addressed and tested 
three assumptions of Field 
Manual 3-24, one of many 
?eld manuals that outline 
army tactics, techniques, 
and procedures. 
He primarily focused 
on the effectiveness of the 
counterinsurgency (COIN) 
operation, which involved 
suppressing rebellion.
The ?rst assumption was 
that the COIN doctrine goal 
would protect the Afghani 
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Co-Editor
Cities die. And then cities 
come back. Cities get ?ooded, 
cities get bombed, cities get 
burnt down, cities economies 
fail, but cities are resilient.
That was the message 
from city council member and 
2013 Democratic nominee for 
Pittsburgh mayor Bill Peduto 
in Baker Halls Giant Eagle 
Auditorium last Friday. Pedutos lecture focused ?rst on 
the history of Pittsburgh and 
its various stages of decline 
and renewal, and then on his 
plans as a mayoral candidate 
to continue the revitalization 
of the city.
Peduto is currently a city 
councilman; according to the 
Pittsburgh city government 
website, he is serving his third 
term and represents Pittsburghs East End, including 
the neighborhoods of Bloom?eld, Oakland, Shadyside, 
Squirrel Hill, East Liberty, and 
Point Breeze.
Pedutos lecture began 
with a brief history of Pittsburgh, from the time it was 
carved out of Americas virgin 
forests to its industrial boom 
in the early 20th century and 
subsequent economic slump. 
The problem with Pittsburgh 
during this time, Peduto said, 
was what he called the David 
Lawrence strategy of urban 
development.
Lawrence was mayor of 
Pittsburgh from 1946 to 1959, 
and later served as governor 
of Pennsylvania from 1959 to 
1963. Lawrence, Peduto said, 
embraced the philosophy of 
top-down city development, 
which included the funding 
of large projects similar to the 
construction of Three Rivers 
Stadium and the Consol Energy Center.
That was what their economic development strategy 
was. It was big. It was going 
to the North Side, tear out 
the North Side, put in a mall 
 Allegheny Center Mall. Go 
in to East Liberty, tear up the 
neighborhood, build a big 
race track around it and make 
it so its more of an automothetartan.org
@thetartan
September 30, 2013
Volume 108, Issue 6
Suresh speaks to parents, alumni
KATE APOSTOLOU
Junior Staffwriter
University President Subra Suresh addressed key issues facing Carnegie Mellon 
University and listened to the 
school community voice its 
concerns in two addresses. 
The ?rst address took place 
last Monday in the Gates Hillman Complexs Rashid Auditorium, and the second one 
occurred last Saturday in the 
University Centers McConomy Auditorium.
These events marked the 
continuation of Sureshs listening tour, an extended effort by Suresh to discuss and 
learn more about topics of 
interest to various groups associated with Carnegie Mellon. The tour, which has of?-
cially been going on for three 
months, includes multiple 
sessions between Suresh and 
campus af?liates. The address on Monday was geared 
toward undergraduate and 
graduate students, whereas 
Saturdays address targeted 
parents and alumni in honor 
of Cilidh Weekend.
I ?nd it extremely helpful 
to listen to the different perspectives and get a window 
into whats on different peoples minds, Suresh said during the ?rst event last week.
One recurring topic in the 
addresses was Carnegie Mellons emphasis on interdisciplinary studies. According to 
Suresh, the schools strength 
lies in its well-roundedness.
I hope that your children 
who are here getting an education will sample the rich variety of opportunities that exist on campus and also learn 
from them because they are 
going to be future leaders, 
Suresh said in his address to 
parents.
More speci?cally, Suresh 
discussed challenges of the 
21st century and related them 
to the importance of a broad 
educational foundation. He 
cited a causal relationship between many of the centurys 
biggest advancements and 
biggest problems, for which 
he blamed on innovators failures to connect technological 
challenges with human challenges. At Carnegie Mellon, 
however, Suresh believes the 
interdisciplinary opportuniSee PRESIDENT, A3
City council member Peduto discusses mayoral plans for city
Jonathan Leung/Assistant Photo Editor
Mayoral candidate Bill Peduto spoke about revitalizing Pittsburgh.
See PEDUTO, A4
Jonathan Leung/Assistant Photo Editor
Eikenberry spoke this Friday.  
See EIKENBERRY, A3
Formergeneral talks on U.S., war
CMU alumnusdies at Cornell
GREG HANNEMAN
Senior Staffwriter
Turi Alcoser, a Carnegie 
Mellon Class of 2012 graduate, died last Monday. His 
death was ?rst reported 
Tuesday both of?cially via 
the university administration and by the student 
newspaper at Cornell University, where the 23-yearold was a Ph.D. student in 
the College of Engineering.
The San Antonio ExpressNews in Alcosers home 
town of San Antonio, Texas, 
reported Sunday that Alcosers death was a suicide. Unof?cial sources con?rmed 
this, although authorities at 
Cornell and several sources 
in Ithaca, N.Y., did not of?cially release a cause of 
death.
A short statement released by Cornells Vice 
President for Student and 
Academic Affairs, Susan 
Murphy, detailed Alcosers 
promising career as a researcher and expressed sadness at his sudden passing.
On behalf of the entire 
Cornell community, I want 
to extend my deepest condolences to Turis family, 
friends, and colleagues, 
Murphy wrote. Please join 
me in taking a moment 
to remember Turi and acknowledge this unfortunate 
loss to our community.
Alcoser graduated from 
Carnegie Mellon with a major in materials science and 
engineering and a minor 
in biomedical engineering. 
He entered Cornell in June 
2012, where his Ph.D. work 
in biomedical engineering 
was on growing and characterizing the biophysical 
properties of breast cancer 
tumor cells, Murphys statement said.
Alcosers time at Carnegie Mellon was similarly 
marked by an interest in 
scienti?c research. He atSee ALCOSER, A4
General 
Eikenberrys 
re?ection on 
the strategy 
of counterinsurgency 
... proposes a 
sentiment of 
regret for our 
involvement 
in the Middle 
East.
  Alec Abitbol
Junior business                   
adminstration 
major
ANNA WALSH
Tartan Alumna
Dean of Student Affairs Gina 
Casalegno ?rst alerted the campus 
community of an ongoing investigation into the Carnegie Mellon 
chapter of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity last semester, on March 29. In 
the email she sent out, Casalegno 
said that the fraternity was being 
investigated for alleged videos 
and pictures of a sexual nature.
The investigation involved 
Carnegie Mellon University Police and the Pittsburgh Bureau of 
Police, and WTAE-TV Pittsburgh 
also con?rmed in April that the Allegheny County District Attorneys 
Of?ce was in contact with the 
school regarding recent behavior 
on campus. Beta was suspended 
during the investigation, and the 
chapter was ultimately shut down 
by the national fraternity for hazing.
After the incident, Carnegie 
Mellon released a media statement on March 29 that said, Due 
to the ongoing nature of this investigation, we cannot comment 
further on the details of the case at 
this time. No followup statement 
was subsequently released. There 
is evidence that the university investigation, which University Police told Casalegno had of?cially 
closed on Aug. 22, may not have 
met federal standards and regulations for reporting crimes that occur on a college campus.
The Clery Act
The Jeanne Clery Disclosure 
of Campus Security Policy and 
Campus Crime Statistics Act, more 
commonly known as the Clery Act, 
is a federal law enforced by the 
U.S. Department of Education that 
requires colleges and universities to disclose information about 
crimes that occur on and around 
their campuses.
The Clery Acts requirements 
include publishing an annual security report, disclosing crime statistics for crimes that occur on and 
around campuses, issuing timely 
warnings to the campus community about crimes that pose a serious 
or ongoing threat to students and 
employees, and having a public 
crime log.
In general, the crime logs are 
made available to inform the campus community about crimes and 
to create transparency on campus, explained Abigail Boyer, 
the assistant executive director 
of programs, outreach, and communications for the Clery Center 
for Security On Campus. The log 
must include the nature, date, 
time, and general location of each 
crime and be available for the 
publics inspection.
The Tartan has learned that 
multiple students spoke with the 
police during the spring semester 
about alleged crimes that occurred 
at Beta which include sexually 
Questions remain in sex assault investigation
A university 
investigation 
into alleged 
sexual assaults 
in a Greek 
Quad fraternity 
house may have 
violated federal 
law on reporting 
and disclosing 
campus crimes.
See BETA, A4

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  September 30, 2013
The Senate executive 
committee discussed holding 
a town hall meeting in light 
of the fact that Senate Week 
is changing this year. It will 
shift its focus in order to encourage students to attend 
Senate general body meetings.
Senators have not agreed 
on a theme for the proposed 
town hall meeting, but they 
discussed several options. 
Options include campus unity, campus stress culture, and 
faculty course evaluations. 
Senators also suggested a 
town hall meeting with a 
more open and fun format, 
rather than the traditional 
formal town hall setting.
Corrections & Clari?cations
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, 
please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print 
issue and publish it online.
NEWS IN BRIEF
Campus celebrates Dietrich Proud Day
WEATHER
Armed Robbery 
Sept. 21, 2013
University Police were 
summoned to Alder Street 
just past midnight when two 
Carnegie Mellon students 
were robbed at gunpoint. According to the victims, a blue 
Chevrolet Impala pulled up 
to them as they were walking 
on Alder Street. A young black 
male with short hair asked 
the victims the time and presented a handgun, demanding 
their money. The Pittsburgh 
Bureau of Police is continuing to investigate this incident 
alongside similar robberies 
that have occurred in the area.
Jacket Theft
Sept. 22, 2013
A Carnegie Mellon visitor 
reported her jacket unlawfully taken from the grass 
area around the track in Gesling Stadium. According to 
the victim, she set her jacket 
in the grass while she walked 
around, and when she came 
back it was gone. This investigation is ongoing.
Disorderly Conduct
Sept. 23, 2013
A University Police of?-
cer on patrol observed three 
males smoking marijuana 
on Flagstaff Hill in Schenley 
Park. The of?cer con?scated 
the illegal contraband and 
cited each of the males for disorderly conduct.
Update: Doherty Hall 
Laptop and Cellphone 
Thefts
Sept. 25, 2013
University Police arrested 
an individual who admitted 
to entering a secured area in 
Doherty Hall and unlawfully 
taking three laptops and an 
iPhone on Sept. 17. The suspect admitted to taking the 
laptops and subsequently 
pawning them at a local shop. 
University Police was able to 
locate and return all three laptops and the stolen iPhone to 
their rightful owners. 
The suspect is being 
charged with burglary in addition to multiple counts of 
receiving stolen property and 
theft. University Police believe 
that there are other suspects 
involved in the recent increase 
in thefts on campus. University Police are continuing to investigate several other thefts 
that have recently occurred, 
and they urge the Carnegie 
Mellon campus community to 
protect all personal items.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
This Wednesday was Dietrich College Proud Day; students celebrated by wearing their Dietrich College Proud shirts  given out at the entrance of 
Baker Hall earlier in the week  and eating free Ritas Italian Ice.  
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
Carnegie Mellon Universitys master of arts management (MAM) program announced the launch of its new 
Arts Management & Technology Laboratory (AMTLab).
AMTLab is a research center meant to provide top-level 
practices and technologies to 
art managers, technologists, 
and researchers in the MAM 
program.
In a university press release, Executive Director of 
AMTLab Brett Crawford said, 
AMTLab serves as a resource 
to a ?eld that has few options available to it. Perhaps 
most importantly, AMTLab 
stands to help solve critical 
questions facing todays arts 
managers and technologists, 
while contributing to the innovations necessary for future effective application of 
technology in the arts management ?eld.
Along with Crawford, two 
Heinz College graduate students are leading the project. 
These students are tasked 
with developing and publicizing the site. One student 
will be chief editor, and the 
other will be chief coordinator. 
AMTLab has an online forum, www.amt-lab.
org, which shares a blog 
with research updates from 
contributors and case studies 
of art organizations.
According to the press release, Director of the MAM 
program Kathryn Heidemann said, Technology is 
now a function of all areas 
of arts management  no 
longer just IT departments  
and this center helps our students as well as the greater 
arts community understand 
both the theoretical and 
practical intersections between arts management and 
technology.
CMU MAM program announces AMTLab
Graduate students awarded scholarships
The Department of 
Homeland Securitys CyberCorps Scholarship for 
Service (SFS) Program, the 
National Science Foundation, and the Department of 
Defenses Information Assurance Scholarship Program 
(IASP) awarded 17 graduate 
students from Carnegie Mellon with cybersecurity scholarships. The IASP award 
went to two students from 
the Information Networking 
Institute (INI), while the SFS 
awards went to six students 
from INI and two students 
from the Heinz College.
According to a university 
press release, INI Director 
and Director of Education, 
Training and Outreach Dena 
Haritos Tsamitis said, As future federal employees, the 
SFS and IASP scholars delve 
into challenging engineering 
and information assurance 
coursework and engage in 
interdisciplinary cybersecurity research. In addition to 
the emphasis on the technologies and strategies related 
to digital defense and offense, Carnegie Mellons cybersecurity curricula explore 
risk management, economics, and policy issues related 
to reducing vulnerability 
and securing our national 
information infrastructure.
Carnegie Mellon is recognized by the National Security Agency and United States 
Cyber Command as a National Center for Academic 
Excellence in operations for 
the period 201318.
 With cyberattacks on the 
rise, the U.S. government 
now values the training 
and retention of cybersecurity experts more than ever. 
Carnegie Mellon, recognized 
for its work in this ?eld, has 
graduated over 160 students 
in the SFS program in the 
past decade.
Fiscal Close Presentation from SBVPF PoteatFuture Town Hall
STUDENT SENATE MEETING MINUTES
FRIDAY
High / Low
75 / 55
SATURDAY
High / Low
64 / 53
SUNDAY
High / Low
56 / 48
TUESDAY
High / Low
73 / 56
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
77 / 57
THURSDAY
High / Low
77 / 59
During this weeks Senate 
meeting, Student Body Vice 
President of Finance Jalen 
Poteat, a junior statistics major, gave a presentation on 
how the Joint Funding Committee (JFC) completed its 
?scal close process at the end 
of the spring semester, which 
also marked the end of Carnegie Mellons ?scal year.
Poteat spoke of how leftover funds  previously allocated for speci?c organizations by the JFC  were dealt 
with, and explained what 
happened to organizations 
that had overspent their JFC 
accounts. 
According to Poteat, organizations that overspent will 
remain in good standing if the 
organization used money that 
had rolled over from the previous ?scal year, if the organization is supervised, or if the 
organization is on controlled 
probation.
Poteat talked about the 
process for helping organizations in debt, which includes 
a weekly meeting between 
Poteat and the leaders of organizations on controlled 
probation.
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Compiled by
ALVIN MATHEW
Booth Theme
The ?rst meeting about 
booths for Spring Carnival 
was on Wednesday. Next 
year the new Tepper building will be breaking ground 
in the Morewood parking 
lot. Because of this, Spring 
Carnival will be relocated. 
Senators discussed where 
the best places to hold Carnival in the future.
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor

---------------------------------------------------

September 30, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
UPMC Eye Center
Optical Shops
LOCATIONS
Applies to prescription or non-prescription glasses and sunglasses.
Excludes Maui Jim and Oakley brands.
ALL EYEWEAR IN OCTOBER
Oakland-Forbes Ave.  412-647-PITT (7488)
Oakland-UPMC Presbyterian  412-647-2145
Uptown-UPMC Mercy  412-232-8520  
UPMC.COM/EyeCenter
O  F  F
1013-3_UPMC_EyeCare.5.146x10.083.indd   19/17/13   4:22 PM
ties allow students to analyze 
problems from both scienti?c 
and humanities perspectives.
CMU is one of the very 
few institutions thats so 
uniquely positioned to bring 
the two, [humanities and sciences], together in ways that 
most other institutions cannot, Suresh said.
First-year business administration major Radhika 
Dalal agreed with Sureshs 
claims about the strength of 
cross-disciplinary studies, 
which she cites as the reason 
for her decision to attend the 
university.
I want to be on the business side of a technological 
company, and Carnegie Mellon is really great at integrating the two ?elds together, 
Dalal said.
However, some students 
voiced concerns about actually getting into classes outside 
of their primary major or department. Suresh responded 
by stating that one of his longterm goals is to increase communication and openness between departments, as well as 
make the university feel more 
uni?ed as a whole.
Another major discussion point revolved around 
changes in higher education 
in general, such as online education, technology-enhanced 
learning, and the open access 
movement. Suresh addressed 
the complicated nuances of 
these developments, focusing namely on their ?nancial 
challenges.
In an ideal world, open 
access is what we want, but 
without a viable ?nancial 
model, it will not work, 
Suresh said.
Audience member and 
parent of a student Patricia 
Petrick appreciated Sureshs 
practical mindset about educational changes.
I think he has excellent 
insights into the problems of 
higher education, and that includes how you fund the very 
sophisticated education being 
provided, Petrick said.
Petrick attributed her realistic perspective to her previous experience working in 
policy with the director of the 
National Science Foundation 
(NSF).
Suresh spoke more in 
depth about his professional 
background during his Saturday address and connected 
it with his current position at 
Carnegie Mellon, describing 
both the NSF and the university as institutions whose investments yield high returns.
CMU has produced more 
spin off companies per dollar 
of research money spent than 
any other university in the 
country without a medical 
school, Suresh said.
Bill Mullins, husband of 
Patricia Petrick, appreciated 
Sureshs ability to recognize 
and articulate the various 
strengths and values of the 
university. He understands 
the Carnegie Mellon culture, 
seems very comfortable with 
it, seems to encourage it, like 
it, and hes going to perpetuate it, Mullins said.
Suresh will continue 
reaching out to the community on his listening tour during upcoming events that are 
in the process of being scheduled. More information about 
attending a discussion session with the president can be 
found on the Carnegie Mellon 
website at http://www.cmu.
edu/leadership/presidentsuresh/.
Suresh continues listening tour
population with a perimeter 
that distinguished bad guys 
from good guys. Secondly, 
the Afghan government 
would become more legitimate and accountable with 
higher levels of American 
support. Lastly, COIN doctrine  as applied in Afghanistan  was aligned with the 
political military approach 
of the Afghanistan President 
Hamid Karzais administration.
Eikenberry asked audience members to raise their 
hands for what they believed 
would be positive and effective goals for supporting the 
Afghani people. The audience 
was in favor of protecting the 
Afghani population against 
the Taliban and NARCO traf?ckers while increasing employment levels and providing health care.
Protection against venal 
police chiefs, Eikenberry 
pointed out, is a more divisive 
issue because of the complicated nature of whom to protect the Afghani people from. 
The predatory dominant tribe 
has friends in the Karzai administration, and the lesser 
tribe has taken to the Taliban 
for help.
Eikenberry posed the 
question: Is it the United 
States role to get engaged in 
that international ?ght?
These are the questions 
that every day on the ground, 
your soldiers, your diplomats 
are struggling over, he said.
In addressing the second 
claim of Field Manual 3-24, 
Eikenberry questioned the 
argument that increased military support over time would 
?x the Afghan government.
The government of Afghanistan today draws about 
7 percent of their GDP, almost 
all of that comes from custom 
polls. The people are 
not being taxed. 
The services 
that are being 
provided, 
80 percent 
is coming 
from the international 
payroll, or 
international 
donations, 
he said.
The third 
assumption was that moving 
forward with a counterinsurgency strategy will be embraced by that nations leader. 
Ill tell you, in Afghanistan, 
this was not the case, Eikenberry said.
Eikenberry posited that 
one reason for the lack of embrace of COIN strategies was 
differences in geopolitical 
framework. There was a domestic political problem that 
traces back to Afghanistans 
history in being ruled by various powers.
Eikenberry also spoke of 
the limits of American intervention by pointing out the 
risks of blindly committing 
to the statements outlined in 
the ?eld manual without any 
consideration for other costs 
or repercussions.
Extended military campaigns that are priced in the 
trillion-dollar range, as this 
one in Iraq had been, carry 
with them many other high 
national security costs, he 
said.
The war in Afghanistan has demonstrated, in 
my mind, that in the thrall 
of wanted agility and resourcefulness of our American forces, the risk of senior 
commanders becoming intellectually arrogant and comparably rigid is very real, he 
continued.
Junior business administration major Alec Abitbol 
considered Eikenberrys position regarding counterinsurgency. General Eikenberrys 
re?ection on the strategy of 
counterinsurgency, de?ned 
by a focus on improving infrastructure and living conditions as opposed to military 
efforts, proposes a sentiment 
of regret for our involvement in the Middle East. [He 
brought] two important questions to mind: What if those 
resources had been spent 
domestically? [And] under 
what circumstances is 
international intervention a net negative for the U.S.?
Eikenberry 
also pointed out 
that the seriousness and zeal 
with which the 
Field Manual 3-24 
was 
applied, left little room for 
critical thought or questioning.
However, the assumptions and risk analysis that 
underpin a plan must be 
continually challenged in a 
dynamic and complex con?ict zone, lest commanders ?nd themselves ?ghting 
the wrong war. Our military 
thought leaders must ?nd a 
way to avoid this kind of trap 
in the future, he said. 
Eikenberry, however, followed his statement with a 
counterargument  saying 
that out of this blind commitment has come a largely positive outcome. Having said 
all of this, believe me, a lot of 
great things have been done 
and will be done in Afghanistan, he said.
As an example, Eikenberry 
explained that 8 million children are in schools  something that he describes as an 
impressive, impressive accomplishment.
Ambassador Eikenberry 
provided a critique of the 
counterinsurgency strategy 
of our U.S. military that has 
been applied since the mid2000s in Iraq and Afghanistan, and he did so from a 
humanities and social science 
standpoint, said Kiron Skinner, director of the Center of 
International Relations and 
Politics. To me, there could 
be no better military leader 
to speak at Carnegie Mellon 
 he addressed a fundamental issue in asking Is the U.S. 
military capable of rebuilding 
a nation and should that be 
what the U.S. military does? 
This was an important 
event during our Cilidh 
Weekend, and to me, it represents Carnegie Mellon at 
its best to have a speaker who 
was speaking on a major set 
of issues facing our nation 
and the world from an interdisciplinary standpoint, 
Skinner said. I was also honored that our new president 
Dr. Suresh introduced Ambassador Eikenberry  to see 
that our president, as busy as 
he is during his ?rst semester 
as president, is participating 
in our campus-wide effort for 
international issues was encouraging.
Eikenberrys lecture was 
sponsored by the Center 
for International Relations and Politics and 
supported by the Humanities Scholars 
Program, the Of?ce 
of the Vice Provost 
for Education, the 
department of social and decision 
sciences, and 
the department 
of modern languages.
Former ambassdaor Eikenberry discusses intervention abroad
Jonathan Leung/Assistant Photo Editor
Karl Eikenberry, former U.S. ambassador and general, spoke last Friday about the limits of U.S. intervention. 
EIKENBERRY, from A1
Michelle Wan/Junior Photographer
President Subra Suresh spoke Saturday morning to alumni and parents about his plans for Carnegie Mellon. 
PRESIDENT, from A1

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  September 30, 2013
explicit photographs taken 
without consent and sexual 
assault. However, there is no 
mention of the investigation 
or any cases involving sexually 
explicit photographs or sexual 
assault in the University Police 
crime log, which is available 
for inspection at the front desk 
of the police station. 
When asked about the discrepancy, University Police 
lieutenant Gary Scheimer 
said, The crime log is not updated with ongoing information that is uncovered during 
a criminal investigation.... 
The original report is published, but not the updates of 
an ongoing investigation.
However, when told that 
the original report had not 
been published in the crime 
log either, he went to check 
for the report in the crime log 
and con?rmed that it was not 
in the log, saying, The way  
[the investigation] came in, it 
did not come in on the media 
log.
Casalegno could not be 
reached for an interview in 
person or on the phone, but 
she wrote in an emailed statement, I have full con?dence 
they [University Police] followed their procedures and 
ensured complete compliance 
with the Clery Act throughout 
this investigation.
While Boyer could not 
comment on individual cases, she said that if a student 
thinks that his or her case 
was handled in a way that did 
not meet the standards of the 
Clery Act, I always encourage 
student to talk to their institutions to ask questions about 
what information is available. 
In addition ... an individual 
has the option of ?ling a complaint with the Department of 
Education. 
The complaint would be 
handled administratively, 
rather than in court. If the 
Department of Education 
?nds a complaint to be valid, 
a university could be ?ned 
up to $35,000 per infraction 
and, in extreme cases, could 
be suspended from participation in student ?nancial 
aid programs. This is not the 
?rst time that questions have 
arisen over Carnegie Mellons 
handling of a sexual assault 
case. In May 2012, Nicole 
Ickes published a blog post alleging that Carnegie Mellon 
had mishandled a sexual assault case that she reported to 
the university in March 2011. 
She wrote that she was not 
informed of academic accommodations that the Department of Educations Title IX 
requires universities to make 
available to sexual assault 
survivors.
Beta investigation
When asked about the outcome of the investigation into 
Beta, Scheimer said he would 
have to check with Casalegno 
and the universitys Of?ce of 
General Counsel to see what 
information he was allowed to 
disclose. As of press time, he 
had not contacted The Tartan 
with any information about 
the investigations results.
As of May 8, three sexual 
assault cases had been referred for disciplinary review 
through the university in 
2013. 
Casalegno could not say 
what month these cases occurred, or if they were connected to Beta. When asked 
about her opinion of the investigation, Casalegno said 
via email, I believe the investigation was handled with 
utmost sensitivity and professionalism by our university 
police. They partnered very 
closely with the division of 
student affairs to ensure appropriate engagement with 
the men of Beta and with 
any potential members of the 
community who might have 
been involved in the matters 
they were investigating.
National trend
Numerous universities 
around the country have recently been accused of not following federal requirements 
for sexual assault cases. Last 
October, a student at Wesleyan University in Middletown, 
Conn., sued the university for 
not following Title IX requirements when she was raped 
at the Mu Epsilon chapter of 
Beta Theta Pi. 
37 students and alumni 
at Occidental College in Los 
Angeles ?led a lawsuit and a 
Clery Act complaint in April 
that alleged the school had 
mishandled their sexual assault cases. The school recently settled the lawsuit, 
while the Department of Educations investigation into the 
Clery Act complaint is still ongoing.
In May, Yale University was 
?ned $165,000 by the Department of Education for serious and numerous Clery Act 
violations, including not reporting forcible sex offenses. 
The ?ne was later reduced to 
$155,000.
Peduto discusses plans for Pittsburgh
bile-driven area than it was. 
It was go in to the Hill District, tear down the Hill District, put in this development, 
and see what would happen 
around it, he said.
This strategy, Peduto said, 
drove people out of Pittsburgh instead of having the 
intended effect of revitalizing 
the metropolis.
We invested in a whole 
new system of highways, 
and what did that do? It created driveways for people to 
leave this city and move further out, and the investment 
dollars continued to be fewer 
and fewer, Peduto said.
According to Peduto, during this time Pittsburgh was 
leading the country in population loss and job loss. In 
fact, during the 80s we lost 
more people than New Orleans lost after Katrina.
Peduto plans to embrace a 
more bottom-up strategy that 
involves focusing on community development in areas 
such as East Liberty. Peduto is 
also focusing on education as 
a means of social mobility.
We can reinvest in our 
infrastructure, the same way 
they did back in the old days; 
we can sustain jobs, and we 
can provide early education 
for all children. If you ask anyone in education what would 
get kids to break the cycle of 
poverty, its early childhood 
education, he said.
At the end of his lecture, 
Peduto took questions from 
the audience  comprised of 
students, faculty, and Pittsburgh residents  and spoke 
more speci?cally about his 
plans if he were to be elected 
mayor.
Were going to be creating, within our new administration, an entire new bureau 
called the Bureau of Special 
Projects, which is going to 
work with our special interest 
community. Because its time 
we get back with them.
Pedutos message was one 
of hope for Pittsburgh; a hope 
that he will lead it to a point 
where the city is comparable 
with cities like Austin, Texas 
and Seattle, Wash.
He spoke as part of the 
Forum on Economic Development, which, according to 
pamphlets given out at the 
event, research[es] the economic development strategies of major actors in the 
Southwest Pennsylvania area 
and the impact of their resulting actions on sustainable 
employment opportunities 
made available.
The Forum on Economic 
Development is also responsible for designing and developing programs and initiatives to generate jobs for 
those most impacted by the 
300,000 manufacturing jobs 
lost in Pennsylvania since 
2000: the undereducated, 
minority workers and people 
over age 50, according to the 
brochure. 
Peduto, the Pittsburgh city 
government website says, is a 
self-described Reform Democrat ,  and wrote the most 
comprehensive package of 
government reform legislation in Pittsburghs history.
Peduto is also co-creator 
of the citys Comprehensive 
Climate Action Plan, acting as 
the champion of protecting 
and enhancing Pittsburghs 
new reputation as a leader in 
green initiatives, according 
to the website. 
Beta Theta Pi investigation remains hazy
PEDUTO, from A1
BETA, from A1
Source: http://clerycenter.org/federal-campus-sexual-assault-victims%E2%80%99-bill-rights
Jonathan Leung/Assistant Photo Editor
City council member Bill Peduto spoke in Giant Eagle Auditorium.
Anne-Sophie Kim/Layout Staff

---------------------------------------------------

tended the universitys Summer Academy for Mathematics and Science (SAMS) program as a high schooler in 
2007, then joined the university as a CIT undergraduate in 
fall 2008.
He was a 2009 participant 
in the biology departments 
Summer Research Institute, 
mentored by biology professor Gordon Rule. 
Later, he conducted cancer 
cell research with Kris Dahl, 
an associate professor of Biomedical Engineering and 
Chemical Engineering.
SAMS builds dreams that 
you would not have even 
thought of had you not come 
here, Alcoser said in a July 
2010 university press release. 
My dream was speci?cally 
research.
His work in the laboratory 
brought Alcoser accolades 
from two universities and beyond. His research with Dahl 
led to features on the Carnegie Mellon website and an 
imaging award from the Department of Materials Science 
and Engineering.
At Cornell, Alcoser was 
a Sloan Scholar and won an 
award from the Physical Sciences Oncology Network. 
This year, he was an honorable mention recipient of the 
National Science Foundations Graduate Research Fellowships.
Turi was a student who 
was well-connected and beloved by many on our campus who knew him through 
his many contributions to the 
CMU community, Carnegie 
Mellon Dean of Student Affairs Gina Casalegno said in 
an email. He will be deeply 
missed by those faculty, students, staff and alumni whose 
lives he touched.
In April 2011, Alcoser ran 
for Student Body President 
as an outsider, with Kelsey 
Briggs in the vice presidential 
slot. 
The candidates platform 
focused on health and wellness, collaboration between 
undergraduate and graduate 
students, and diversity.
Alcoser mentioned reducing student stress as a particularly important issue for 
him during the campaign. 
I want to show that when I 
leave here from Carnegie Mellon, I recognized this problem 
and I did something about 
it, he said in a March 2011 
interview. The Alcoser-Briggs 
ticket was ultimately defeated 
by Jake Flittner and Sangita 
Sharma.
Increasing awareness of 
mental health issues on campus has been an ongoing process, Casalegno said Sunday.
Turis passing is a reminder to us all that, while we can 
never know why someones 
life ends by suicide, we can 
join together to cultivate a 
caring, compassionate, and 
supportive community that 
provides resources and outreach to help individuals who 
are struggling, she said.
Alcoser was also a member 
of Delta Tau Delta and a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Funeral services and burial will take place today at the 
Mission Burial Park South 
in San Antonio, according to 
an obituary in the [ITAL]San 
Antonio Express-News[ITAL]. 
Visitation and a prayer service 
were held last night.
At Carnegie Mellon, the 
Division of Student Affairs 
has offered to provide support 
and assistance to community 
members interested in participating in a memorial effort, 
Casalegno said. Anyone wishing to be involved can contact 
Casalegno at ginac@andrew.
cmu.edu.
Members of the campus 
community can also contact 
Counseling and Psychological Services 24 hours a day by 
calling 412-268-2922.
February 18, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A5
File photo by Alex Cooper Webster
Turi Alcoser, a 2012 graduate of Carnegie Mellon, recently died. 
Turi Alcoser, CMU alumnus, dies
ALCOSER, from A1
Turi was a 
student who 
was well 
connected 
and beloved 
by many on 
our campus 
who knew 
him through 
his many 
contributions 
to the CMU 
community.
Gina Casalegno
Dean of Student     
Affairs
Check out our Cilidh
 photo gallery
online at 
thetartan.org/news

---------------------------------------------------

A6  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  September 30, 2013
NIVEDITA CHOPRA
Staffwriter
In order to facilitate discussion on the impact of federal 
and academic initiatives on 
neurological research, Carnegie Mellon held the Impact 
of BRAIN and Mind Research 
Symposium last Saturday. It 
focused on the Brain Research 
through Advanced Innovative 
Neurotechnologies (BRAIN) 
initiative, which awards academic institutions research 
grants to further brain research.
According to the White 
House website, BRAIN aims 
to develop new techniques 
for the prevention and treatment of brain disorders like 
Alzheimers, schizophrenia, 
autism, epilepsy, Parkinsons, 
and traumatic brain injury.
This symposium was the 
?rst of Carnegie Mellons 
yearlong Crossing Boundaries, Transforming Lives symposia in celebration of Subra 
Sureshs inaugural year as the 
universitys ninth president. 
Its discussion panel included 
faculty from various departments and schools at Carnegie 
Mellon, as well as Harvard 
University, the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology, and 
the White Houses Of?ce of 
Science and Technology Policy.
Suresh said that brain research has immediate and 
practical effects in solving 
real-world issues.
Its not just an academic 
exercise, Suresh said in his 
speech. Its a major day-today issue. More than 50 percent of all Americans over 
the age of 85 will develop Alzheimers. Combine that with 
other brain diseases  and 
the societal need for [BRAIN] 
is compelling. 
He also added that a signi?cant fraction, about 2025 
percent, of U.S. soldiers return 
from wars abroad with traumatic brain injury.
Speaking on Carnegie Mellons and Pittsburghs roles 
in supporting the initiative, 
Suresh said, Pittsburgh, in 
general, as a city, and CMU 
and the University of Pittsburgh as partnering entities, 
have played a leading role. 
The Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition, which is a 
joint effort between the two 
institutions, has been a leader 
in pioneering research.
Tom Mitchell, head of the 
machine learning department, 
explained his interest in how 
the brain deals with language 
processing. He highlighted 
an experiment performed 
in his laboratory, where an 
individual was placed in an 
functional magnetic resource 
imaging (fMRI) scanner  
which reads the brains neural 
activity  and shown stimuli, 
each consisting of an image 
and a one-word caption. By 
running various machine 
learning algorithms on the 
data, researchers can predict 
which neurons in the brain are 
activated when other types of 
stimuli are given. These models show that the similar words 
trigger similar brain activity in 
most individuals. Another application of this model shows 
that in bilingual people, the 
same neurons are activated 
in the brain regardless of the 
language in which the word is 
presented.
Mitchell believes that the 
BRAIN initiative will generate 
a ?ood of data on brain activity while reading words. He 
feels that the big opportunity going forward [will be to 
generate] subtle and comprehensive models of language 
comprehension by using not 
just one experiment, but thousands of experiments involving different people and different layouts.
Nathan Urban, head of the 
biological sciences department, discussed the role of 
individual neurons inside the 
brain. According to him, the 
main function of a neuron is 
to perform an analog to digital conversion of continuous 
sensory impulses to spikes 
called action potentials in the 
brain.
Urban said that research 
has shown that, although all 
the neurons in the brain perform similar functions, no two 
neurons are exactly similar 
and interchangeable in structure. Just as no two snow?akes 
have identical structures even 
though they follow the same 
hexagonal pattern, he explained, any given neuron is 
unique, even though it may 
look similar to other neurons. 
Urban also discussed how 
neurons function in brains of 
people with autism, and overviewed research being done 
in that area.
Psychology professor Marlene Behrmann explained 
her research in neurological 
patterns behind facial recognition. She pointed out that 
people tend to look at the upper part of the face longer 
than the lower part of the face. 
Thus, when images of faces 
are recreated based on the 
neural signals triggered in a 
persons brain, the upper parts 
are more sharply focused than 
the lower. 
She also explained that 
people with congenital prosopagnosia, or face blindness, rely 
on clothing, voice and other 
external cues to identify others. In severe cases, they may 
also be unable to recognize 
loved ones. Research conducted in Behrmanns laboratory has determined that, in 
such people, the fault lies in 
the propagation of the neural 
signals corresponding to facial 
recognition.
Emery Brown of Harvard 
University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
focused his talk on the activity 
within ones brain while under 
anesthesia. Finally, the White 
Houses Of?ce of Science and 
Technology Policy spokesman 
Phillip Rubin presented information on the BRAIN Initiative itself and the policy decisions that led to it.
Carnegie Mellon is poised 
to make a signi?cant contribution as part of the BRAIN 
initiative. A successful partnership with the University of 
Pittsburgh  as manifested in 
the Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition  will make 
sure that Carnegie Mellon and 
Pittsburgh have an important 
role to play in the upcoming 
revolution in the ?eld of brain 
research.
CLAIRE GIANAKAS
Junior Staffwriter
Twitter, created in 2006, 
serves its purpose as a worldwide social networking phenomenon  but its also a 
useful resource for predicting 
the outcomes of events such as 
elections or movie premieres. 
Recent ?ndings by researchers 
at Carnegie Mellon show that 
Twitter analysis may also be 
able to help gamblers beat the 
spread on NFL games.
Christopher Dyer, assistant 
professor in Carnegie Mellons Language Technologies 
Institute, led a research team 
in gathering tweets every 
15 minutes during football 
season, then distinguishing 
tweets that included hashtags 
associated with NFL teams. 
The goal of the research was 
to determine a correlation between tweets about a game and 
the outcome  speci?cally, 
which team will win and which 
team will beat the spread.
They found that, while 
Twitter data did not help determine which team would 
win a game, it was about 56 
percent accurate with regards 
to beating the spread. They 
also discovered that increases 
in volume of tweets compared 
to a teams baseline number 
of tweets corresponded with 
a loss. It looks like people 
are tweeting when they are 
anxious, Dyer said. There is 
some kind of emotional thing 
going on.
According to Dyer, sports 
betting works well with machine learning. In sports betting, bookies give a handicap 
to the team expected to lose, 
which is added onto that 
teams score after the games 
completion. The bookies generally attempt to create the 
handicap so that the chances 
for each team to win will be 
50 percent, ensuring that they 
receive approximately the 
same number of bets for each 
team. If the team someone bet 
on has the higher score after 
the handicap has been added, 
they have beaten the spread.
Dyer explained that they 
assumed many people were 
betting illogically based on 
teams they liked, rather than 
which team was actually more 
likely to win. Optimistic versus 
pessimistic fan bases can also 
in?uence betting.
The bookies know the dynamics of the two teams, so 
they are going to be setting 
the line in a slightly more favorable way to make money. 
If we can detect this kind of 
irrationality from a signal in 
social media, then maybe we 
can make money, Dyer said. 
Football is a great sport for 
this; the teams have national 
followings and the games are 
broadcast in national markets. 
Footballs large sphere of in?uence was a major reason the 
team chose this sport for the 
research. It was also bene?-
cial that teams only play once 
a week  this made it easy to 
determine which games the 
tweets were referring to.
Dyer also commented on 
the bene?ts of using football 
from a scienti?c perspective.
You have a lot of work on 
Twitter saying we can forecast 
elections, but elections come 
along every four years, he explained. In football we have 
140 games during the course 
of a season, so we get replicated experiments.
Although Twitter is constantly developing, the main 
aspects of each game were the 
same, which allowed the results to be more scienti?cally 
relevant.
Despite promising conclusions, the research had its 
limitations. People are talking about games using all 
kinds of different words. Its 
Twitter; people dont even use 
typical, nice, edited English. 
Figuring out how to get a signal out of that was a big challenge in the research, Dyer 
said. We do a really naive 
categorization of the tweets. 
The research didnt separate words into positive and 
negative, and tweets werent 
interpreted based on associations with how people speak. 
Each word in the tweets was 
treated individually, which 
caused some of the meaning to 
be lost. Dyer explains that the 
tweet the Steelers beat the 
Eagles was exactly the same 
as the Eagles beat the Steelers based on the model.
We havent found a way 
to beat Vegas, Dyer said. We 
still make a lot of mistakes.
Despite the challenges, this 
research provides valuable information for future analysis 
of Twitter data and has the 
potential to increase the accuracy with which we predict 
future events.
Sara Remi Fields/Junior Photographer 
Tom Mitchell, Nathan Urban, Marlene Behrmann, and Emery Brown spoke about their research, as well as implications from the BRAIN initiative proposed by the White House.
Peter Lee/Junior Photographer
Christopher Dyer, assistant professor in Carnegie Mellons Language Technologies Institute, has attempted to 
?nd a correlation between tweets during a football game and the games outcome.
Analyst uses Twitter to predict outcome of football games
BRAIN initiative promotes exciting research on campus
Sara Remi Fields/Junior Photographer
President Subra Suresh addresses the audience at the Impact of BRAIN 
and Mind Research Symposium.

---------------------------------------------------

September 30, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A7
Does life extension bring immortality or immorality? 
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
Imagine if every student 
in 15110 had the opportunity to use his or her programming skills to control 
robots. BirdBrain Technologies, a startup company that 
grew from Carnegie Mellon 
Universitys Community Robotics, Education and Technology Empowerment (CREATE) Lab is introducing 1,000 
robots to up to 20 school 
districts and educational organizations in an attempt 
to inspire and guide novice 
programmers in the world of 
computer science. The distribution of the robots will 
take place Dec. 814, during 
Computer Science Education 
Week (CSEdWeek).
The robot  known as the 
Finch  is a low-cost tabletop 
robot with bird-like features 
that has light, temperature, 
and obstacle sensors, along 
with an accelerometer that 
measures the direction the 
Finch tilts. The Finch also possesses simple components: 
Two motor-driven wheels, a 
buzzer, and a beak are programmed to light up in different colors. All these attributes are manipulated by an 
input device similar to a Wii 
remote. Its most convenient 
feature is its over-15-foot USB 
cable, which eliminates the 
need for batteries and drives 
down costs. In addition, the 
robot supports a variety of 
major programming languages.
Tom Lauwers, the creator 
of Finch and founder of BirdBrain Technologies, designed 
the Finch at the Carnegie 
Mellons CREATE Lab after 
his four-year research study 
as a Ph.D. student in the Robotics Institute. The study 
ended in 2010 after the successful development of a 
robot with a set of features 
optimized for computer science education. Back in 2005, 
computer science programs 
and high school programming classes were struggling 
with low enrollment and lack 
of interest from students; 
Lauwers aimed to increase 
student motivation in introductory classes by creating 
an appropriate learning tool. 
Since it went on the market 
two-and-a-half years ago, the 
Finchs purpose has been to 
help students.
Despite the commercial 
success since the robots 
launch, Lauwers and his team 
faced challenges during developmental stages that dealt 
with deciding which features 
to include in the robot. For 
example, they originally debated adding in a camera, but 
ditched the idea after realizing its added expenses and 
relatively small usefulness in 
a classroom setting.
Nonetheless, BirdBrain 
Technologies is now loaning 
out several hundred robots 
for an entire year because 
the company has received 
an overwhelming number 
of applicants and wanted to 
support more schools than 
the original plan allowed. 
The company estimates that 
the new program will allow 
15,00030,000 students in 
roughly 50 school districts 
to have at least one hour of 
experience programming 
the Finch. BirdBrain Technologies explicitly requires 
that students have little or 
no experience programming 
robots; The company also favors schools that have a high 
number of low-income students. It also only speci?cally 
serves students in grades four 
through nine. 
Although many educational systems seem to view 
computer science courses as 
highschool level electives, 
Lauwers regards them as core 
skills that should be learned 
earlier on in upper elementary school. He hopes that 
at least some of the students 
who program the Finch will 
take the initiative to use free 
programs such as Snap! and 
Scratch to independently 
study programming.
Lauwers must evaluate 
over 150 applications before 
this Friday and decide which 
ones are the most promising. Then, he needs to work 
with several stakeholders to 
develop activities for the robots for the teachers to use, 
and direct the warehouse 
that processes his companys 
orders to deliver the robots. 
Before CSEdWeek, BirdBrain 
Technologies will send out 
?ve robots to each participating organization in November 
to allow teachers preparation 
time.
Although his focus is de?-
nitely on the Pittsburgh community, Lauwers sees himself 
as part of larger organization 
to promote computer science 
education.
We want to support 
Computer Science Education 
Weeks Hour of Code initiative, which seeks to demystify 
computer code with a onehour introductory activity for 
10 million students, he said.
ROHAN VARMA
Junior Staffwriter
If you could drink from the 
Fountain of Youth, would you?
The idea of eternal, or even 
extended, life has been a divisive issue since its conception. 
Are we meant to live for only 
a ?nite period of time? Is it 
moral to allow death to occur 
when it could be prevented? 
If humans take longer to pass 
away, where will we ?nd the 
space to house the worlds 
growing population? These 
are all questions that have 
different correct answers, 
depending on whos talking. 
These discussions are taking 
on greater importance today 
as technology, science, and 
human ingenuity make it possible to achieve a substantially 
longer lifespan.
Last week, CEO of Google 
Larry Page announced the 
companys next bold venture: 
?nding the cure to aging. 
Google is funding the creation 
of a startup research company, 
Calico, that aims to extend the 
lives of people born 20 years 
ago by 100 years. In a post on 
Google+, Page said, Theres 
tremendous potential for 
technology more generally to 
improve peoples lives. While 
Calicos plan of action has not 
yet been publicized, there are 
many existing technologies 
and methods that could potentially be expanded upon 
to produce signi?cant results. 
One such method that shows 
promise is called telomerase 
gene therapy.
Telomeres are essentially 
shields made out of nucleotide base pairs that are placed 
at the ends of every chromosome in animal cells to protect 
DNA from erosion during cell 
division. Each telomere loses 
base pairs every time the cell 
divides, which may cause the 
phenomena of aging. After 
telomeres deteriorate to a certain length, the DNA is no longer protected; the cell ceases 
to divide and consequently 
dies. However, some cells in 
the body, such as adult stem 
cells, have shown to express 
a protein called telomerase 
that prevents telomeres from 
degrading. Recent research 
conducted at the Spanish National Cancer Research Center 
has shown that treating mice 
with telomerase increases the 
length of their life by up to 40 
percent. Calico could potentially expand on telomerase research by further investigating 
its effectiveness and by ?nding 
ways to safely and effectively 
administer it to humans.
Another approach  one 
currently being researched 
at Carnegie Mellon  looks 
at how organisms tend to express genes in different ways 
as they age. Javier Lopez, associate professor of biological 
sciences at Carnegie Mellon, 
is looking at these differential 
expressions and investigating if waste produced by the 
cell plays a role. As cells produce energy to carry out the 
processes of life, destructive 
compounds are created that 
accumulate in cells. Lopez has 
been able to link this buildup 
with changes in gene expression that correlate to aging. 
Removing or limiting the effects of this byproduct could 
lead to insight into another 
form of life extension.
Page said, [We] are excited about tackling aging and 
illness. These issues affect us 
all  from the decreased mobility and mental agility that 
comes with age, to life-threatening diseases that exact a terrible physical and emotional 
toll on individuals and families. And while this is clearly 
a longer-term bet, we believe 
we can make good progress 
within reasonable timescales 
with the right goals and the 
right people.
While some believe Calico 
has good intentions, others believe that extending the length 
of human lives is not the right 
answer. Many contend that 
the resources required for this 
undertaking would be better 
spent protecting the environment or reducing poverty and 
hunger. 
Additionally, life extension 
means that there will be an 
even greater increase in the 
population after each successive generation. This could potentially lead to a shortage of 
resources on Earth.
Death, even though it can 
be sad and painful, is an unavoidable and necessary process of life, ?rst-year business 
major Sonali Avlani said. Im 
not saying that ?nding cures to 
diseases like cancer and AIDS 
is a bad thing. However, we 
simply dont have the resources to sustain longer lives. We 
are already overpopulating 
the Earth.
As of now, it is no longer a 
question of if we can live longer; its just a question of if we 
want to.
Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
CEO of Google Larry Page is funding a company called Calico, which 
aims to extend the human lifespan.
Courtesy of Tom Lauwers
Tom Lauwers has produced a robot to help students learn 
programming.
Kelsey Scott/Operations Manager
Students receive 1,000 robots

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University. 
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
StaffEditorial Board
Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
 2013 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Publisher
JOSH SMITH *
Editor-in-Chief
BRADEN KELNER 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Online Editor
CHLOE THOMPSON
Staffwriter
BRENT HEARD *
Staffwriter
A8  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  September 30, 2013
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Greg Hanneman
COPY
Lula Beresford-Banker, Francesca Begos, Matt 
Brown, Connie Chan, Nivedita Chopra, Gordon 
Estes, Blaine Greenberg, Ariel Hoffmaier, 
Katherine Huang, Evaline Ju, Sneha Kannoth, 
Karyn Michela, Satvika Neti, Mackenzie 
Nicholson, Gates Palissery, Syed Rahman, 
Taylor Rawley, Kevin Reichek, James Wu
LAYOUT
Adrian Amegashie, Manali Banjeree, Yong Gun 
Choe, Sara-Remi Fields, Anne-Sophie Kim, 
Mina Kim, Linging Sun, Tanguri Tzuo
ADVERTISING
Alison Chiu, Linda Ju, Anuva Kulkarni, 
Gretchen Tan
KELSEY SCOTT *
Operations Manager
NEL UM
News Co-Editor
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Co-Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
SciTech Editor
WILLIAM PARK
Sports Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Pillbox Editor
KAIRAVI CHAHAL
Comics Editor
KATE GROSCHNER
Photo Editor
ANNETTE KO
Art Editor
LAURA SCHERB
Personnel Manager
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
SWATHI ANAND
Layout Manager
JOHN HUO
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
BENJAMIN CHANG
Asst. Business Manager
JONATHAN LEUNG
Asst. Photo Editor
HANNAH DELLABELLA
Asst. Copy Manager
JULIA YANG
Asst. Copy Manager
BROOKE KUEI
Asst. SciTech Editor
JOEY PEISER
Asst. Pillbox Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Contributing Editor
Editorial Staff
* Denotes executive committee member
Breast cancer campaigns not praiseworthy
October is Breast Cancer Awareness Month. Breast cancer is a national threat to women and men that 
deserves care and consideration, but 
it may not necessitate as much attention as various awareness foundations have given it compared to other 
conditions.
Issue awareness has gained popularity in the age of the Internet, 
but awareness often promotes little 
change. Breast cancer awareness has 
become more of a commercial asset 
than a movement, according to The 
Guardian, with companies placing 
pink ribbons on products to appear 
socially conscious. 
However, this lack of true action 
is not the biggest problem of the 
breast cancer awareness campaign; 
its disturbing side is its sexualization 
of womens health. 
sOne of breast cancer awarenesss 
most famous slogans is Save the 
Boobs, which appeared in a breast 
cancer awareness advertisement created by Canadian TV Host and MTV 
host Aliya-Jasmine Sovani. Breast 
cancer gets some of its attention because it deals with womens breasts 
 and sex sells. This sort of marketing subtly implies that the breasts are 
the part of a woman that are most 
worth saving  not her brain, nor  
her  heart. 
Even more telling is that prostate 
cancer does not bene?t from this intensi?ed focus on a disease that affects sexual or sexualized organs. 
According to The Daily Caller, breast 
cancer receives far more funding 
than prostate cancer; breast cancer 
research received $872 million in 
federal funding while prostate cancer research received only $390 million in 2009. Yet, the American Cancer Society expects similar numbers 
of new cases in 2013   234,580 new 
cases of breast cancer and 238,590 
new cases of prostate cancer.
Breast cancer isnt even the biggest threat to womens health  
heart disease is, followed by lung 
cancer, according to The Huf?ngton 
Post. So then why is it that heart disease doesnt receive the same attention that breast cancer does?
Breast cancer is a potentially lethal disease that certainly deserves 
attention in funding, but not more 
so than equally dangerous diseases; 
and creating a sexualized campaign, 
although effective, is not admirable.
Editorial Dissent
Michael Setzer, SciTech Editor
Breast cancer campaigns have 
absolutely no reason to sti?e their 
voices. Furthermore, the assumption 
that a decrease in pushing breast 
cancer awareness will lead to an increase in knowledge of other diseases is fallacious.
It seems obvious that the term 
awareness refers to education of statistics regarding the disease, preventative measures, and testing available to women. 
According to CBS News, the overwhelming majority of fatal breast 
cancers occur in women who have 
not had a mammogram.
According to health and medicine website Medscape, the survival 
rate of breast cancer has greatly increased in the past 10 years. 
New treatments and early detection  both of which can be at least 
partially attributed to successful 
breast cancer campaigns  are main 
reasons behind increased treatment 
and survival.
The initiatives taken by organizations such as Susan G. Komen for the 
Cure are admirable and smart. As 
other organizations show, its very 
dif?cult to raise money and promote 
awareness and education about the 
disease in question. 
Breast cancer awareness advocates have created successful campaigns that have ultimately led to 
signi?cant results; why should we 
fault them on this?
Fold ethics hearing board or give it power
One would think Pittsburghs ethics hearing board would have more 
to do. When Mayor Luke Ravenstahl 
overhauled the citys ethics code 
in 2009, hopes were high that the 
board would provide government 
transparency and regulate ethics 
on a level that Pittsburgh had never 
seen before  and although the ethics board had been around before 
2009, it was then revitalized and 
made itself known in order to uphold 
these new doctrines.
Today, the board struggles to 
determine its purpose, with no 
help from the rest of the citys 
government.
The ?ve-person board has shrunk 
to two people, as the mayor failed to 
appoint his own members or approve 
those nominated by City Council. 
According to the 2009 legislation, city employees must disclose 
gifts they receive that are over $100 
on a designated website  but since 
2009, only one such divulgence was 
made. The board is supposed to hold 
annual ethics training sessions for 
many city employees, but none has 
been held since 2010. The boards 
website, which is only a small subspace on the mayors own site, says 
Meetings are held, as scheduled 
below, at 10:00 a.m.... There are no 
meetings listed.
If members of Pittsburghs government think that the board is ineffective, then they should disband 
it. If they think it could stand to do 
some good with proper direction 
and power, they should give it legal 
representation and more in?uence. 
The worst possible action is the one 
theyre making now: to shirk responsibility and let the ethics board fall 
into disrepair.
Why Ravenstahl would push for 
the ethics boards restoration and 
then not appoint or approve new 
members is anyones guess. As it 
stands, though, the board has nothing to do and no one to do it. According to the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, 
the Pittsburgh City Law Department 
takes care of most cases on ethics, 
and the ethics board doesnt have its 
own attorney even if it wanted to get 
involved.
Yes, Ravenstahl is getting ready 
to leave  but he and the rest of the 
city council should ?nish what they 
started when they revitalized the 
citys ethics board.
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor
A beginners guide to replacing Obamacare
KYLE HENSON
The House GOP is currently intent on defunding the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, 
more commonly known as Obamacare. Obamacare will likely remain 
funded and intact through this crisis, but the fact remains that it is an 
awful piece of legislation that should 
be replaced. In order to understand 
how to replace Obamacare, we must 
?rst understand what de?ciencies 
our healthcare system had before 
Obamacares passage, and what de?ciencies Obamacare itself has.
Obamacare was created to protect those who were disenfranchised 
by the current system, and make 
healthcare generally more affordable. These are noble goals, and 
they underscore two main problems with our healthcare system 
pre-Obamacare. There were a lot 
of people who couldnt get health 
insurance, such as those with preexisting conditions, as well as those 
who didnt get health insurance 
through their employers and were 
unable to afford it themselves. Additionally, sometimes peoples insurance failed to cover the scope of their 
problems and they were left with exorbitant out-of-pocket costs. These 
problems can be summed up simply: Sometimes people who needed 
healthcare couldnt get it, but most 
people who needed healthcare were 
getting it under the old system.
Obamacare tries to solve these 
problems by making everyone get 
health insurance that covers a wider range of problems, so that there 
would be more money in the system. 
The legislation also eliminates some 
of the ways that providers change 
their prices, so that those with preexisting conditions could get insurance. Additionally, it provides a 
marketplace with subsidies for those 
who cannot afford insurance to get 
healthcare. Finally, it regulates employers so that they have to offer 
more insurance to more people.
These provisions sound great, 
but Obamacare has a lot of unintended consequences. To pay for the 
subsidies, taxes are increasing on 
health savings accounts and medical 
devices, which increases the overall 
cost of healthcare. Employers are 
cutting employees hours because 
they cannot afford to give part-time 
employees insurance. Young people 
are being forced to buy plans that 
cover far more than they need, increasing their premiums drastically. 
As a result, many people may pay 
the cheaper ?ne rather than get coverage. This will eliminate the crux 
of Obamacare, which is a massive 
redistribution of wealth from young, 
healthy people to old, sick people.
So, given that both systems are 
?awed, the best way to augment the 
pre-Obamacare system is to have the 
government cover preventative and 
catastrophic care. This sounds socialistic  and it is  but the most 
ef?cient insurance scheme is one 
that involves everyone. Taxes can 
be adjusted to progressively cover 
this system, but we are moving into 
a society where healthcare is being 
considered a right. As such, we need 
to begin to work it into our government. This proposed system could 
additionally replace Medicare and 
Medicaid to work more ef?ciently.
This proposed systems bene?ts 
are numerous. First, covering preventative care lowers overall costs 
because diseases with high costs in 
later stages are caught sooner. There 
are elements of this tactic in Obamacare, but we need to embrace this 
ef?cient tactic fully. Finally, most 
health insurance horror stories come 
from catastrophic care. If the government covers catastrophic care, 
there will be no hitting limits to 
coverage with stage four cancer or 
other debilitating diseases that give 
the pre-Obamacare system a bad 
name. This proposed system also 
gives consumers the ability to shop 
around for insurance for things like 
a broken ?nger or strep throat. This 
system keeps costs down for routine 
diseases and procedures, but takes 
care of everyone in the event that 
something seriously bad happens.
This potential system is far more 
ef?cient than pre-Obamacare and 
Obamacare because it maintains the 
bene?ts of a market system, while 
taking care of everyone that needs 
to be taken care of. It will be a tough 
sell to America, but to ensure a future of happy, healthy, and prosperous citizens, this proposal is the right 
move for our healthcare system.
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
The Tartan is excited for the oncoming fall weather. So we asked,
What is the weirdest thing youve had pumpkin spice in?
Compiled by Justin McGown
Regena Reyes
Business Administration
Senior
Latte.
Pranita Ramakrishnan
Information Systems
Sophomore
Frozen yogurt.
Pranav Trehun
Robotics
Graduate student
Ive never had pumpkin spice.
Lukos Carmona
Design/Production
Sophomore
Pumpkin spice cheesecake.
Ben Mathews
Acting
Sophomore
Pumpkin spice brownies.
September 30, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A9
Media glamour explains mass killings
BRANDON SCHMUCK
Junior Staffwriter
According to a recent article in 
The Economist, the United States is 
facing a strange trend: Gun violence 
has been decreasing overall, but the 
number of mass shootings has been 
increasing. In the past 20 years, 
deaths from mass shootings have 
risen from less than 0.05 per 1 million people to over 0.22. While this 
number is still small enough that 
Americans have no reason to panic 
when going to theaters or sending 
their children to school, this rise in 
the rate of mass shooting deaths reveals that there is most certainly an 
underlying problem.
For those who have never been 
exposed to guns, it is hard to imagine 
a world where everyone owns one, 
and to understand what purpose 
guns carry. However, according to 
a Gallup Poll conducted in October 
2011, 47 percent of American adults 
own at least one ?rearm. Despite the 
fact that this is the highest rate since 
1993, The Economist points out that 
gun crimes have been cut in half over 
the past 20 years, from around seven 
homicides per 100,000 people to 3.6. 
To state that gun ownership is directly related to violent crimes makes no 
sense at all, as the correlation between them appears to be negative.
One explanation for this increase 
in mass shootings is far from hidden. In fact, it stares in the face of 
Americans every time they pick up 
a newspaper or turn on the news: 
the glamorization of mass shooters. 
News media networks are publicizing these criminals like never before. 
If one began a conversation with a 
random person on the street regarding a recent mass shooting, chances 
are that person would be easily able 
to name the shooter but would struggle to name even one of their victims.
One particularly disturbing example of news glamorization was 
the Aug. 1 edition of Rolling Stone. 
On its cover was a close-up of the 
Boston Marathon bomber, Dzhokhar 
Tsarnaev, staring from the page like 
a celebrity that deserved the public 
eye. 
Many Americans were outraged. 
Boston Mayor Thomas Menino responded in a letter to Rolling Stone, 
stating that the cover sends the message that destruction gains fame for 
killers and their causes. His words, 
according to CNN, summarized the 
feelings of many: The survivors of 
the Boston attacks deserve Rolling 
Stone cover stories, though I no longer feel that Rolling Stone deserves 
them.
Sadly, however, U.S. News & 
World Report says that putting this 
homicidal maniac on its cover increased the sales of Rolling Stone by 
102 percent. Therefore, media companies alone cannot take the blame, 
as they are merely delivering the 
content that Americans wish to consume. These crimes will only continue to increase until Americans would 
rather read the stories of those who 
lost their lives in mass shootings, instead of the stories of the culprits behind these unspeakable crimes.
Taking away the guns of the other 
99 percent of Americans that are 
mentally stable enough not to carry 
a ?rearm into a school or mall will do 
nothing. As such, the recent increase 
in mass shootings is not as simple of 
an issue as gun control. It is as complex as society, and it reveals the 
true problem that Americans would 
rather read about the people who 
massacre than those who attempt to 
save the victims.
Online textbooks dont  aid student education
JUSTIN YAN
Junior Staffwriter
Last year, when I attended high 
school at Phillips Academy outside 
of Boston, the math and economics department made moves toward 
using online textbooks and online 
homework assignments. This trend 
of going online  with the suggestion that online learning is superior 
to traditional learning  seems to 
have continued into college.
To be blunt, online textbooks are 
counterproductive, inconvenient 
trash. Whats even worse? Online 
homework. Scrap convenience. 
Scrap accessibility. Online reading and homework just isnt working well for me, and Im sure it isnt 
working for many other college students out there. Online homework 
does not improve the academic experience or performance, and a reversion to traditional pen and paper 
would probably help students learn 
better.
There are, of course, some advantages that come along with online 
textbooks. They save paper. Theres 
no denying the good that saving 
paper does. Online learning also allows all textbooks to be centralized 
in one Internet browser. Third, they 
come with interactive features. Students can take notes on their computers, all of which can be saved 
and accessed digitally. Students can 
quiz themselves and watch videos 
about concepts they have trouble 
comprehending. If students are 
susceptible to losing homework assignments, like myself, online hubs 
allow students to keep them in one, 
easy place. Lastly, online learning 
should, in theory, be a lot cheaper. 
Textbook companies are supporting 
a server, not printing thousands of 
textbooks.
It all sounds wonderful. Right? 
My professors seem to think so. Out 
of the four textbook-based classes 
I am taking this semester, three 
use some form of online textbook 
or homework assignments. Many 
introductory math classes require 
WebAssign. Principles of Economics 
requires Aplia.
Colleges seem to think online 
textbooks are wonderful too: Digital 
textbooks may make up more than 
11 percent of textbook revenue in 
the United States this year, according to senior analyst Kathy Micky of 
Simba Information in The New York 
Times.
This should all be good news. For 
subjects like chemistry, mathematics, and economics, however, online homework is frustrating. There 
is practically no room to take notes 
in the margins of readings. Need an 
answer? Theres no option to keep 
your ?nger on the answer page to 
check if youre right after ?nishing 
problems. All of that is now within 
the depths of a computer screen. 
The formula is 20 clicks away, and 
answers are almost impossible to retrieve without opening a second tab 
 probably another 20 clicks.
WebAssign is a classic example 
of how counterproductive online 
learning can be. For multiple-choice 
questions, its easy to click random 
buttons and achieve perfect scores. 
While this random clicking is a marginal blessing for QPAs and stress 
levels, students do not actually learn 
 they guess.
 The fact that WebAssign and 
Aplia spit out ticks and crosses for 
correctness encourages students to 
become complacent. The answers 
dont come back with a teacher or 
professors feedback. The website 
wont explain whats wrong, where 
students made mistakes, or how 
they can improve. Yes, there are of?ce hours, but professors see students progress through a computer 
screen of scores, and not by the way 
they solve problems.
In the 21st century, where iPads 
can access thousands of books 
through several touches, online 
homework seems to be the next logical step, and maybe it is. But online 
learning needs to be reformatted so 
that it preserves all the advantages 
of paper, along with the advantages 
that the Internet and multimedia 
bring. The same needs to be applied 
to online textbooks to make their 
use more ?uid. 
I would rather break my back 
lugging around textbooks than paying nearly the same amount for access to a website that wont give me 
the same quality education.
Twitter will conquer IPO, diversify
ABHISHEK TAYAL
Junior Staffwriter
Back in 2006, Twitter started as a 
side project by founder Jack Dorsey 
as a hedge against his dormant startup Odeo. Fast forward seven years, 
and Twitter has become one of the 
biggest names in social media. Along 
with Facebook, Twitter brought the 
very notion of social networking 
to the masses. Some sources, like 
telegraph.co.uk, estimate that Twitter has 200 million active users. In a 
couple of months, Twitter will face 
its biggest challenge yet  the infamous initial public offering (IPO).
At worst, IPOs can destroy companies; at best, they can bring about 
signi?cant change in company 
culture. The prospect of quarterly 
earnings, shareholder pressure, and 
activist investors can paralyze an organization and shift its focus away 
from innovating on its core platform. 
Just look at Facebook to see how 
painful an IPO can be. Facebook has 
had an incredibly rocky ?rst year as 
a public company. Its stock dropped 
to below half its IPO price in August 
according to The Huf?ngton Post, 
and Facebook is still trading at a 
price not much above its IPO price. 
Wont Twitter be affected in the same 
way that Facebook has been?
Twitter is well-positioned to avoid 
these pitfalls and emerge as a healthier, more diverse company following 
a public offering.
One of the primary reasons Facebooks stock tumbled is that it didnt 
have a credible revenue model for 
mobile devices a year ago. Knowing how to monetize mobile capabilities is of paramount importance 
for an Internet company, since the 
majority of future growth in the 
technology industry will come from 
smartphones and tablets running 
operating systems like iOS and Android. Twitter, on the other hand, has 
been monetizing mobile capabilities 
for as long as it has been ?nancially 
viable. This year, mobile advertisements are expected to account for 55 
percent of Twitters revenue, according to Mediabistro.com. In fact, Twitter was originally conceived as a mobile platform that allowed users to 
use text messages to tell groups what 
they were doing. In other words, 
Twitters future is far more secure 
than Facebooks was one year ago.
Another large difference between 
Facebook and Twitters IPOs has 
more to do with the IPOs themselves. 
Facebooks IPO was highly publicized 
 one of the most hyped IPOs in history. Facebook also set a relatively 
high initial IPO price of $38. The 
impending Twitter IPO is a decidedly 
lower key affair. The announcement 
was made, in characteristic fashion, 
through a tweet: Weve con?dentially submitted an S-1 to the S.E.C. 
for a planned IPO. Through this 
ingenious move, Twitter announced 
that it planned to go public while 
withholding every other detail about 
the IPO. Goldman Sachs will underwrite the offering, according to The 
Wall Street Journal, and the stock 
will be priced and executed to have 
shareholder appreciation, thus sidestepping Facebooks most signi?cant 
IPO ?ub. By not setting any public 
expectations from its IPO, Twitter 
avoids public disappointment.
Most importantly, an IPO is a 
foundation for the company Twitter 
wants to be tomorrow. If it is to continue to grow at the rate it has, Twitter needs to ramp up investment in 
its future products. The best way to 
generate that kind of cash is through 
an IPO. 
Twitter today is a social network 
for personal use. Twitter tomorrow 
is a global, real-time news and entertainment network centered around 
its core platform, but with a variety 
of other successful products including Twitter Music and Vine, as well 
as products under development in 
markets, including local discovery 
and TV advertising.
Will the IPO be a disaster, or will 
it be a much needed catalyst to enter new markets? Although nobody 
knows, Id wager my money on the 
latter.
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor
Rachel Cohen/Pillbox Editor

---------------------------------------------------

A10  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  September 30, 2013
Heats on as UAA soccer play starts 
WILLIAM PARK
Sports Editor
After mastering non-conference opponents, both the 
mens and womens soccer 
teams look ready to move on 
to tougher competition when 
University Athletic Association (UAA) Conference play 
starts Saturday. 
[Conference play is] 
much more competitive. We 
dont have a conference tournament so every game is like 
a championship game, said 
mens head coach Arron Lujan. 
With the mens team at 
711 and the womens at 
611, the two teams have 
followed similar paths to this 
point. 
Early in the season, both 
teams were clearly outplaying their opponents, though 
they were struggling to put 
the ball in the net.
The mens team won each 
of its ?rst ?ve victories of the 
season with scores of 10.
It took our forwards and 
mid?elders a little while to 
get in a ?ow with each other. 
The past couple of games, 
weve been ?ring on all cylinders, said senior captain Ben 
Bryant. 
Over the past three games, 
the mens squad has scored a 
total of nine goals. While seniors Max Tassano and Chris 
Wysocki have led the way 
with totals of ?ve and four 
goals respectively, ?rst-year 
mid?elder Tristan Lockwood 
has emerged as a somewhat 
surprising presence.
Lockwood, who has started eight of the nine games 
after senior mid?elder Scott 
Gerfen suffered a seasonending leg injury, has totaled 
two goals and two assists so 
far. 
The upperclassmen have 
really accepted me, and made 
it easier for me to transition 
into an important playing 
role, Lockwood said.
Tristan comes from a 
good club team. Im not that 
surprised [at his success].... 
Hes taken that opportunity 
and done a really good job 
with it, Lujan said. 
Ranked No. 15 in Division 
III, the womens only loss 
of the season came against 
Johns Hopkins University, 
now ranked the No. 2 team in 
the country, in a game which 
the Tartans brie?y led 20 
before conceding three goals 
in a row. 
We know we are one of 
the best teams in the country, and we can play with 
one of the best teams in the 
country, said womens head 
coach Yon Struble. 
So far, the team has convincingly handled its weaker 
non-conference opponents, 
keeping possession in the 
opponents half and using 
its speed and athleticism to 
create many goal-scoring 
opportunities.
Though they have struggled with their ?nishing 
touch, they scored four goals 
in their victory over Juniata 
College last Wednesday. 
Asked if he was satis?ed 
with his teams goal-scoring, 
Struble was direct. No. We 
always want to score more 
goals. 
Despite a rotating starting 
three up front, many players 
have stepped up, showing 
the teams depth. Junior mid?elder Amanda So started 
the season strong with three 
goals in the ?rst three games, 
and ?ve of her teammates 
have scored two or more 
goals. 
The return of senior forward Alex Venegas from a 
preseason knee injury should 
also strengthen the womens 
teams attack. 
Although the start of UAA 
play brings tougher play  
The games are battles, 
Struble said  both teams 
are looking forward to the 
competition. 
I think the team looks 
great, and were all feeling 
really con?dent and pumped 
to go, said graduate student 
goalkeeper Anna Albi.
At stake for both teams 
is the automatic bid into the 
NCAA tournament given to 
the conference winner. 
Im excited. I think we 
can win the UAA this year, 
Bryant said. 
The UAA conference is so 
highly competitive and ?elds 
so many great teams, however, that many of them earn 
at-large bids into the tournament anyway. Teams that ?nish third or fourth in the conference can earn bids into the 
tournament. 
Its such a competitive 
conference, and every team 
could win on any given day, 
Struble said.
Both teams will play all 
seven other teams in their 
conferences once, starting 
this Saturday when both the 
University of Chicago mens 
and womens teams visit 
Pittsburgh. 
The men will kick off ?rst 
at 11:00 a.m. followed by the 
women at 1:30 p.m. 
Last season, the mens 
team lost in the second round 
of the NCAA tournament, 
while the womens team lost 
in heartbreaking fashion in 
the quarter?nals on penalty 
kicks. 
We know that were kind 
of a new team, and were 
slowly but surely making new 
memories, Albi said.
ATHLETE PROFILE
Ali Celentano is bringing the heat to the volleyball courts
KARTHIK NAGALINGAM
Junior Staffwriter
Since coming to campus in 
fall 2011, junior business administration major Ali Celentano has been a driving force 
on the volleyball court and 
is always pushing for new 
challenges.
From Mission Viejo, Calif., 
Celentano played a variety 
of sports growing up, most 
notably soccer. She also tried 
basketball due to her height 
 she is 60  but found she 
didnt have a true passion for 
it.
Celentanos love for volleyball actually started late, 
during her ?rst year of high 
school.
[I] tried out because I was 
tall, and it looked fun, she 
said.
She started to study and 
learn the game, progressing to 
new heights. 
With the advice of her high 
school coach, she joined a club 
team to further develop her 
skills.
During a recruiting tournament in Las Vegas her junior 
year of high school, she was 
approached by the current 
head coach of the Carnegie 
Mellon volleyball team, Kim 
Kelly. 
This was also the ?rst time 
Celentano had ever heard of 
Carnegie Mellon.
Two years later, she would 
become a business administration major with a minor in biology, join the team, and now, 
she is positioned to join Carnegie Mellons top 10 leaders in 
kills.
With 893 career kills and 
246 for the season, she needs 
195 more kills to crack the top 
10.
Celentanos friend Adrian 
Botta, a junior statistics major 
who watched her teams home 
30 victory over Frostburg 
State University last Tuesday, 
said, Ali plays for hours on 
end, rarely getting a sub, and 
always has to run between 
practice and classes, but she 
is always walking around with 
a smile and a great, relaxed 
attitude.
However, the second the 
whistle blows and the ball is in 
the air, she is de?nitely hitting 
it down as hard as she can. 
That is when she gets all that 
energy out, Botta said.
Celentanos said that her 
favorite part of volleyball is 
the excitement  the way the 
momentum can ebb-and-?ow 
after every single point.
The most rewarding thing 
that I have gotten from volleyball is the camaraderie 
of the girls, the trust in my 
teammates and coaches, and 
the teamwork skills I have acquired, she said.
Celentano has a variety of 
goals for this season, both personal and team-oriented. She 
wants to reach 1,000 career 
kills by the end of the season 
 she needs 107 more  a 
distinction she wishes to share 
with teammate, senior Senna 
Parsa.
She also wants to have another successful year and have 
the team reach the University 
Athletic Association (UAA) 
playoffs.
The most exciting games 
are the UAAs. We get to play 
the best teams in our conference and [the games] are 
always very competitive, 
Celentano said.
Her team, with a 154 record, sits third in the UAA Conference and will get to show its 
mettle when it heads to Cleveland this Saturday for the ?rst 
UAA round-robin tournament.
We are all looking forward 
to the ?rst UAA round-robin, 
Celentano said.
After a 36 conference record last season, Celentano 
hopes for a better result this 
year. 
Whatever the outcome, 
however, Celentano will surely play a large role in bringing  
the Tartans closer to victory.
Tartans defeat Tornadoes at Cilidh
GABRIELLE WEST
Staffwriter
The Tartans celebrated their Homecoming 
game by defeating the 
Geneva College Golden Tornadoes 3427 
in a double overtime 
thriller on Saturday. The 
Tartans are now 22 after 
handing Geneva their ?rst 
loss of the season.
Geneva jumped on the 
scoreboard ?rst, scoring 
a touchdown on a fouryard pass for a quick 
70 lead.
The Tartans stormed 
back, driving 63 yards 
down the ?eld to tie the 
score at seven. Sophomore running back Max 
Reinertsen spearheaded 
the drive with a run of 23 
yards and another of 22 
yards. Senior quarterback 
Rob Kalksteins ?rst 
completed pass of 
the day  a twoyard pass to senior 
wide receiver Tim 
Kikta  ?nished 
the touchdown drive.
The second quarter began with success for Carnegie Mellon as Kalkstein 
found junior wide receiver 
Tim Swanson for a 56-yard 
run down the sideline. Just 
three plays later, Kalkstein 
scored on a ?ve-yard scamper for their ?rst lead of the 
day, 147. Two ?eld goals by 
the Golden Tornadoes and a 
15-yard pass from Kalkstein 
to Reinertsen ended the ?rst 
half with a score of 2113.
The Golden Tornadoes 
opened the scoring in the 
second half after a 15-yard 
touchdown pass. Geneva 
tried for a two-point conversion, but was unsuccessful, 
leaving the score at 2119. 
Just before the end of the 
quarter, Kalkstein completed a touchdown pass to 
senior tight end Bryce 
Pardoe advancing the score 
to 2719. The Tartans extra 
point attempt was blocked 
 a key development that 
kept Geneva within one 
possession.
With just under three 
minutes left in the fourth 
quarter, the Golden Tornadoes completed another 
touchdown and were successful this time with the 
two-point conversion tying 
the score at 27.
Kalksteins pass, the 
teams chance for a gamewinning drive, was promptly 
intercepted. This gave Geneva an opportunity for their 
own game-winning drive 
starting at the Carnegie 
Mellon 45-yard line. The 
Tartans defense was unable 
to stop the Geneva 
advance, however, and 
the Golden Tornadoes were 
set up for a game-winning 
?eld goal from the Tartans 
18-yard line. Fortunately for 
the Tartans, the Geneva ?eld 
goal attempt failed.
The ?rst overtime started 
well for the Golden Tornadoes, who scored a touchdown after just three plays. 
The Tartans responded well 
again as Reinertsen found 
himself in the end zone after 
a three-yard pass from Kalkstein.
Double overtime began 
with the Tartans on offense 
?rst, and they scored in just 
?ve plays: Reinertsen completed his third touchdown 
of the day so the Tartans 
could take the 
lead, rushing into the end zone from 
six yards out. 
Geneva College failed 
to complete four passes in 
a row, and senior Tartan 
defensive backs Jack Butler and Liam McGrath each 
racked up a pass breakup on 
third and fourth down, securing the Tartan victory.
It was de?nitely one of 
the greatest games Ive ever 
played in, and it was the ?rst 
time that we seemed like one 
team. This game de?nitely 
gave us a big boost in morale moving forward, Butler 
said.
The Tartans will hit the 
road next Saturday when 
they play St. Vincent College 
at 1 p.m. in Latrobe, Pa.
Jason Chen/Junior Photographer
University President Subra Suresh performs the coin toss for the Cilidh football game last Saturday. Senior running back Zachary ErraHernandez (top) leads the Tartans with 188 rushing yards on 42 carries for the season. 
Jason Chen/Junior Photographer
Courtesy of Martin Santek
Junior Ali Celentano leads the volleyball team with 246 kills.

---------------------------------------------------

Gallery Crawl
Pittsburghers flock downtown to see the 
launch of the Rubber Duck Project  B809.30.13 Volume 108, Issue 6

---------------------------------------------------

ComicsComics about TV shows and shopping and 
pretty much anything else you can think of.
11
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents three films this weekend, 
including an Oct. 3 screening of Mean Girls.
5
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2013 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Jennifer Coloma EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Josh Smith 
PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Joey Peiser COMICS EDITOR Kairavi Chahal
ART EDITOR Annette Ko PHOTO EDITOR Kate Groschner 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Maryyann Landlord
8
37
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about escaping 
Pittsburgh and being patient with first-years.
3
...diversions
...this week only
ScotchnSoda
The sixth-annual charity cabaret features 22 
outstanding student performances.
3
Breaking Bad
The series finale of the hit TV show gives fans 
everything they wanted.
5
Art exhibit
The Society for Contemporary Crafts presents 
ENOUGH Violence in the Strip District.
7
Gallery Crawl
This seasons Gallery Crawl brings a variety of 
attractions, including a 40-foot-tall rubber duck.
8
Puzzles
Solve some super-hard puzzles and feel smart.13
Heisenscopes
Whats going to happen to the Breaking Bad 
characters now that the show is over?
14
Calendar
Check out the calendar for upcoming events 
like the VIA Music & New Media Festival.
15

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 09.30.133
SnS holds charity cabaret
Show features student interpretations of classic works
ScotchnSoda Theatre held its sixth Annual 
Charity Cabaret on Friday night. In two hours, the 
show covered 22 performances in two acts and an 
intermission. Most of the songs were snipped out of 
musical theater shows, but were accessible enough 
to enjoy without exposition. All proceeds from the 
cabaret went toward the Alumni Theater Company, 
a nonprofit theater in Pittsburgh which, according 
to its website, provides quality performing arts 
training for talented, committed youth in grades 
612 in a highly creative, challenging, and 
supportive environment.
The show opened with all of the performers singing 
The Sixth Annual Charity Cabaret, a rendition of 
The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee from 
the one-act musical comedy of the same title, with 
the lyrics tweaked to fit the occasion. Afterward, 
each of the singers performed individually or in pairs 
before coming together again for a group finale.
One of the most interesting parts of the show was 
hearing student reinterpretations of songs that 
are usually sung by professionals, like junior voice 
major Zachary Mendezs performance of the popular 
Phantom of the Opera number, Music of the Night. 
Some performers added a great deal of personality 
to their songs, like junior psychology major Jaclyn 
Ross, who gave an energetic performance in her 
version of Joey Is a Punk Rocker from The Black 
Suits, a song about a straight-laced girl who is in 
love with a punk rock boy. Though most performers 
only used their voices, junior chemical engineering 
major Alex Petti brought his guitar to strum along 
as he sang Cant Take My Eyes Off of You from 
Jersey Boys.
In addition to Carnegie Mellon students, members 
of the Alumni Theater Company also came to 
perform the song A Step Too Far from their recent 
production of the musical Aida.
Sophomore vocal performance major Shannyn 
Rinkers soulful rendition of the classic song, Blues 
in the Night was simply a show-stopper. Singing 
with her body language as well as with voice, Rinker 
gave the air of an old-time lounge singer, like Billie 
Holiday or Ella Fitzgerald.
In her performance of Part of Your World from The 
Little Mermaid, Abby Botnick, a senior Bachelor of 
Humanities and Arts student in costume design 
and professional writing, made quite the entrance; 
she was carried out decked in full mermaid regalia 
 tail, seashells, fork-comb, and all. Throughout the 
song, unable to walk, Botnick hopped around in her 
mermaid costume and had to be carried out when 
the song was finished.
Junior voice major Taylor Rawley performed Mr. 
Cellophane from Chicago, a sadly humorous song 
about a man who nobody notices. Rawley did a 
small but hilarious dance number to go along with 
the tone of the song, in which he desperately waved 
around jazz hands and did an feeble one-man 
kickline to make people notice him.
Of special mention was the emcee  junior 
chemical engineering major and ScotchnSoda 
vice president Evan Starkweather  who provided 
warm, friendly humor in the small breaks between 
the performances, as well as the pit musicians, 
whose presence and live musical performances gave 
the songs a much more vibrant sound.
The show was very charming overall; with plenty of 
talented performers and wonderful music, the show 
was a great Cilidh Weekend event, and hopefully a 
tradition that will continue in future years.
Xiyu Wang | Staffwriter
Editors note: Taylor Rawley is a copy editor for The 
Tartan.
Jason Chen | Junior Photographer
Advice for awkward people
Dear Ryan & Matt,
Im noticing more and 
more small, happylooking people around 
campus, and theyre 
really annoying. Theyre 
traveling in groups and 
holding up the lines at 
Entropy+ and Resnik, 
and just look like a bunch 
of lost, ignorant sheep. 
What are these things and 
whats the best way of 
dealing with them?
Sincerely,
People-like Entities 
Strolling Through 
Passively, Rather 
Outrageously Blithe, 
Likely Enemies of Mine
Dear PEST PROBLEM,
These things as you put 
it are, in fact, people. You 
probably looked like one 
not too long ago yourself. 
These people are colloquially 
referred to as freshmen 
 or, to be more politically 
correct, freshpersons. 
Even though theyve been 
here over a month, some 
of them will cling to their 
carefree, blissfully unaware 
state they assume upon 
entering university.
The only cure is time. They 
will slowly lose their happygo-lucky attitudes  which 
is kinda sad, but its the 
natural order of things. The 
best thing you can do in 
the meantime is help them 
along and teach them the 
secret arts of surviving at 
Carnegie Mellon. Just dont 
be surprised when theres a 
whole new crop of things 
next fall.
Its the circle of life,
Matt & Ryan
Dear Ryan & Matt,
Im getting tired of 
bridges in this city. Dont 
get me wrong; I love 
Carnegie Mellon, but I 
just need a change of 
venue, maybe just for a 
semester. 
Sincerely, 
Take Relaxing Adventures 
Via Exploiting Laudable 
Educational Reasons
Dear TRAVELER,
Have you considered 
studying abroad in Venice? I 
hear there are fewer bridges 
there. Southern France is 
supposedly nice this time of 
year and doesnt suffer from 
Pittsburghs schizophrenic 
weather. 
I gathered information from 
the study abroad folk early in 
my Carnegie Mellon career, 
and Im still getting spam 
from some of the programs, 
but in all its an exciting 
process to go through. A 
number of our friends have 
had great times in other 
countries.
On the other hand, only 
six-and-a-half months til 
Carnival!
Matt & Ryan
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About first-years and bridges
Emcee Evan Starkweather filled in the gaps 
between performances with humourous interludes.

---------------------------------------------------

4fake
pillbox 09.30.13
ONE NIGHT ONLY, TUESDAY OCTOBER 8
The last chance to see The Legend of Zelda: Symphony of the Goddesses as it returns to Heinz Hall by popular 
demand with SECOND QUEST! Expect breathtaking new visuals and music exploring additional chapters from the 
Zelda franchise as well as your original favorites. Dont miss the final area performance before the Quest ends in 2013.
With thePittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
FOR TICKETS, call 412-392-4900 or visit www.pittsburghsymphony.org
13SYM019_Zelda_Tartan_FINAL.indd   19/18/13   9:24 AM

---------------------------------------------------

television
pillbox 09.30.135
If I have to hear one more time that you did this for the 
family...
Obviously, spoilers abound throughout this article.
Since its invention, television has always been a source 
of shared cultural moments in America. Together we 
witnessed the cast of Friends grab coffee at Central 
Perk one last time as well as Jerry, Elaine, George, and 
Kramer enter their shared prison cell for violating the 
Good Samaritan law (it was new) on the series ?nale of 
Seinfeld.
While many say that these kinds of unifying events have 
become a thing of the past due to the rise of special 
interest entertainment and news outlets, that isnt 
entirely true. Case in point, last night we all watched 
the conclusion of high-school-chemistry-teacher-turnedcrystal-meth-kingpin Walter Whites incredible story 
with the series ?nale of AMCs Breaking Bad.
If were gonna go that way, youre going to need a 
bigger knife.
Breaking Bad began in 2008 with Walter White (Bryan 
Cranston), a high school chemistry teacher with a 
pregnant wife, Skyler (Anna Gunn), and a son with 
cerebral palsy, Walt Jr. (RJ Mitte). Walt is handed a death 
sentence when he is diagnosed with inoperable lung 
cancer and turns to a former student of his named Jesse 
Pinkman (Aaron Paul) to help him use his knowledge of 
chemistry to cook and distribute crystal meth.
Walt and Jesse become known for producing incredibly 
pure meth, evidenced by its blue color. As Walters 
criminal enterprise grows, he adopts the pseudonym 
Heisenberg and begins accruing a body count that 
rivals his rising stacks of cash. Competition, potential 
informers and witnesses, and anyone else who could 
jeopardize Walts business are all disposed of over the 
course of the series. Five seasons later, Walt decides to 
retire, sitting on top of $80 million in cash.
Walt wouldve been able to die with peace of mind 
that his family was taken care of if not for one major 
wrench in the gear: speci?cally, his brother-in-law Hank 
(Dean Norris), a DEA agent tasked with tracking down 
Heisenberg. Over the course of his manhunt, Hank is 
shot at and loses the use of his legs for a period of time, 
in addition to going through just simple, plain, hellish 
mental anguish.
Around the same time as Walts decision to retire, some 
revealing bathroom reading causes Hank to realize that 
his nerdy brother-in-law who claims to have recently hit 
it big at the casino is actually the drug lord who has all 
but been ruining his life for the past few years. At the 
beginning of the second half of season ?ve, we ?nd Hank 
now determined to put Walt behind bars, Jesse reeling 
with guilt over his and Walts actions over the course of 
their enterprise, and a criminal underworld desperate 
for someone who can cook crystal meth as well as 
Heisenberg can.
So, the question thats been on everyones mind  How 
will it end?  has ?nally been answered. The ?nale 
delivered everything fans of the series couldve hoped 
for. The trademark bouncing between nail-biting tension 
and hilarious comedy? Check. Watching Walt settle all 
remaining scores? Check. Finding yourself rooting for 
a man who breaks into a home and coldly describes to 
the inhabitants how easily he could have them killed? 
Check. The ?rst hour of the episode feels like climbing 
the ?rst hill of a roller coaster  that tense feeling deep 
in your gut that you know is about to explode: You ?nd 
yourself both anticipating it and dreading it.
How are you feeling? Kind of under the weather, like 
you have the ?u? That would be the ricin I gave you.
The ?nal 15 minutes contain everything fans have been 
waiting to see for the past ?ve seasons. As the credits 
rolled, it was hard to pick a favorite moment: seeing 
Walt put a whole belt of .50-caliber bullets through 
Jacks skinhead gang with the press of a button or Jesse 
strangling Todd to death with the chains that kept him 
cooking meth against his will. Perhaps, though, it was 
when Walt put the ?nal bullet into Jacks skull, the man 
who had killed Hank and stolen all the money he had 
made. Or maybe, just maybe, it was seeing Jesse break 
through the fence of the compound, ?nally free.
Nothing happens until you say that you want this.
I want this.
The ?nale changed the tone of the series dramatically. 
When Walt reveals that the true reason he kept up the 
whole thing was that it was the only thing that made 
him feel truly alive, Breaking Bad goes from the story of 
a man doing whatever it took to provide for his family 
to the story of a man trying to live in the face of certain 
death. Its ?tting then that Walt ?nally passes away in a 
meth lab; he dies in the only place he truly lived.
Breaking Bad has been called the best show in a new 
golden age of television. Its a bold statement to make, 
but now that the show can be taken as a whole, the 
claim lies on solid ground. 
Yeah, bitch.
Joey Peiser | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Breaking Bad goes out with a loud bang
The hit TV show rewards devoted viewers, shifts the tone of an entire ?ve-season series
Andie Park | Junior Staffwriter
On Oct. 3, he asked me what day it was. Its Oct. 
3, and its also the day you can catch Mean Girls 
playing in McConomy Auditorium. Its your chance to 
watch the female bible, penned by Tina Fey, on the big 
screen and relive your middle school moments: Cady 
Heron (Lindsay Lohan) struggles to ?nd her way as she 
befriends queen bee Regina George (Rachel McAdams) 
and her little workers  the Plastics. Full of hilarious 
moments and truths about the girl world, Mean Girls is 
the perfect movie to watch with friends when you just 
want to relax and quote every single line. 
Mean Girls
Thursday, Oct. 3
7:30 9:30
Gandhi
Saturday, Oct. 5
7
If you ever wanted a good look into the lives of one 
of the greatest spiritual leaders of our time, Gandhi is 
a great place to start. Director Richard Attenborough 
brings Gandhis journey to life in the form of a true epic. 
Sir Ben Kingsley is a compelling force as the titular 
spiritual leader who manages to compel both empathy 
and awe with his performance. Gandhi is a magnetic ?lm 
that not only allows a peek into a great mans journey 
and struggles, but is also one that is poetically imbued 
with truths about humanity.
The Place Beyond the Pines
Friday, Oct. 4
7 10
Imagine Ryan Gosling on a motorcycle, tatted up and 
teary eyed as he embarks upon a crime drama. If you 
like the sound of that, The Place Beyond the Pines might 
be for you. Be careful, though. This is a drama about 
fatherhood and consequences, and its focus is more 
heart wrench than heartthrob. Gosling plays the role of 
a motorcyclist who makes the heavy decision to commit 
a crime for his son but collides with a police of?cer, 
played by Bradley Cooper. Their struggle has long-term 
consequences for their families. The ?lm is thrilling yet 
organic enough for us to learn about morality and family.
dollarmovieMcConomy Auditorium, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

6fake
pillbox 09.30.13
The saddest piece of music in the entire world. 
Adagio for Strings  Carnegie Mellon University Night, Oct. 12, 8 PM
FDR. JFK. Einstein. Some of the worlds greatest minds were laid to rest to the sound 
of Samuel Barbers Adagio for Strings. CMU Night at the symphony includes:
 Samuel Barbers Adagio for Strings
 Leos Janaceks Jenufa
 Mozarts Piano Concerto No. 21
 Dvorks Symphony No. 8
 Pre-concert reception in the Garden at Heinz Hall
Title Sponsor
Tickets available at pittsburghsymphony.org/cmunight
TICKETS 
START
AT $15
13SYM030_Tartan_9.667x10.625.indd   19/25/13   5:44 PM

---------------------------------------------------

art 
pillbox 09.30.137
International artists preach ENOUGH Violence
Society for Contemporary Crafts exhibit brings discussions on violence to the community
At the Society for Contemporary Crafts in the Strip 
District in Pittsburgh, an exhibition called ENOUGH 
Violence: Artists Speak Out opened last Friday. The 
exhibition seeks to explore how art can shed light on 
creative solutions to the urgent issue of increasing 
violence in the U.S. and around the world. The project is 
an interdisciplinary collaboration among artists, mental 
health professionals, academics, and community leaders 
that uses a multimedia platform to enable viewers to 
participate in a genuine discussion about violence and 
how it affects people.
The exhibition intertwines art with social work, social 
justice, and psychology to ask the complex question of 
what we can do as a community to combat violence. It 
features the work of 14 renowned artists and craftsmen 
from the U.S. and Europe working with photography, 
prints, painting, clay, fabric, and metal. The exhibition 
also includes two interactive components: a physical 
space in the main gallery for visitors to create their 
own personal talisman to carry along with them and 
a public Tumblr collection of peoples own stories about 
their experiences with violence.
Participating artists have chosen to focus their artwork 
on topics ranging from domestic abuse and rape to war 
and terrorism. Many of the pieces rely on disturbing 
imagery, including life-size sculptures of naked children 
praying on their knees, a menorah made of handguns, 
and an American ?ag with a symbolic red circle in the 
center. Despite the seriousness, the works also have an 
element of hope and resilience from people who have 
overcome violence.
Boris Bally (CFA 84), a former adjunct professor in the 
School of Art and the School of Design, is a Pittsburgh 
native and metalsmith with three pieces in the 
exhibition. In the 1990s, Bally became involved in an 
anti-violence coalition that made him interested in 
anti-violence art. In 1997, Bally curated a show titled 
Artists of a Different Caliber in the former Hewlett 
Gallery at Carnegie Mellon, which challenged artists 
to create sculptures out of decommissioned handguns 
from buyback programs  programs that aimed to take 
guns out of civilian hands. I had been interested in 
the handguns for a while; I had about 200 guns in my 
studio, he said.
Ballys work for the current exhibition is in the same 
vein as the show in 1997. He created three pieces out of 
handguns  Loaded Menorah, Brave 4: Breastplate, 
and Bear Claw Necklace  that draw inspiration from 
indigenous cultures and religious traditions while being 
juxtaposed with the violent reality of the present era.
The exhibition will be open through March 22. During 
that time, numerous events and guest lectures 
by professors, educators, community leaders, and 
artists will aim to ?nd creative solutions to violence. 
The Society for Contemporary Crafts will also host 
information sessions on regional social service agencies 
on the ?rst Saturday of each month while the exhibition 
is on display. For more information, call 412-261-7003.
Sarah Moss-Horwitz | Junior Staffwriter
Jonathan Carreon | Contributing Editor
Left: Museum patrons at the Society for 
Contemporary Art view the works on display. 
Above: Carnegie Mellon alumnus Boris Ballys 
Loaded Menorah is among the pieces that depict 
the violent world in which we live.
Jonathan Carreon | Contributing Editor

---------------------------------------------------

feature 
pillbox 09.30.1398feature
pillbox 09.30.13
A car covered in doll appendages, a 40-foot rubber duck 
on the Allegheny River, and multisensory exhibitions 
 Friday night was one of many strange and exciting 
?rsts as Pittsburghers and students alike gathered in 
Downtowns Cultural District for the quarterly Gallery 
Crawl, hosted by the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust.
This year, 28 businesses and galleries, plus one bridge, 
opened their doors to the people of Pittsburgh to 
encourage exploration of the rich and diverse culture the 
city has to offer.
The highlight of the evening was the Rubber Duck 
Bridge Party, hosted by Mikey and Big Bob from KISS 
FMs Morning Freak Show on the Roberto Clemente 
Bridge. The party blocked off car traf?c on the bridge as 
Mikey and Big Bob blasted music and vendors of food, 
art, and memorabilia set up shop.
The event celebrated the unveiling of The Rubber Duck 
Project, a four-story-tall ?oating rubber duck designed by 
Dutch artist Florentijn Hofman. Hofmans Rubber Duck 
has traveled the world, ?oating through Amsterdam, 
Belgium, Sydney, and Hong Kong  but Friday night 
marked its U.S. debut. Its a cool thing that its in 
Pittsburgh ?rst, said sophomore statistics major Caitlin 
Selvaggi. [Pittsburgh] is an up-and-coming city, and 
this is a symbol of that.
Hofmans website says that the duck was designed to 
be soft, friendly, and suitable for all ages. Its clear that 
the artist met his goal from the sheer number of families, 
couples, and friends that came out to enjoy the view. The 
bridge was swarming with people, everyone clamoring 
for a look and a picture of the duck. The more daring 
observers climbed the bridge itself, standing on the 
barrier between road and walkway to get a clear shot.
The party was the launch of the Pittsburgh Festival of 
Firsts, which continues through Oct. 20. During the 
festival, the city will host the U.S. premieres of numerous 
theater, dance, music, and visual art displays. On Friday 
night, three other installations had their U.S. debut, 
including Kurt Hentschlager and Ulf Langheinrichs 
Granular Synthesis: Model 5 and POL in the SPACE art 
gallery on Liberty Avenue.
Model 5 consists of a large screen curtained off, upon 
which four large images are projected. The images 
shift and move in time to a rhythmic bass, creating a 
multisensory experience. Viewers sit down and take in 
the experience, soaking in the physical vibrations from 
the bass rhythms as the pictures shift and change.
But as soon as viewers become comfortable with the 
rhythm, the mood, and the images themselves, these 
details suddenly shift to something new. Sophomore 
English major Sayre Olson said she was never fully 
satis?ed with the piece because it felt as if the art was 
always one step ahead of you.
Another installation that examines perception is Francis 
Crisa?os HOLDUP in the HOOD in the 707 Penn Gallery. 
The photographs incorporate drawings and recycled 
materials such as magazines in an exploration of selfperception, race, gender, and identity, especially in pop 
culture. 
Crisa?o, who studied printmaking and painting at 
Carnegie Mellon, said in his artists statement that this 
installation was created out of a larger body of work that 
documents an after-school, collaborative arts curriculum 
rooted in self-portraiture.
It was a very high concept, but not so weird that I didnt 
get it, sophomore chemistry and English double major 
Sophie Zucker said, although it was hard to pinpoint 
one message.
The most striking images show people holding magazine 
covers in front of their faces. The covers feature the face 
of a model and obscure all of the distinctive features of 
the subjects except their eyes, replacing them with an 
example of societal standards of beauty. This pattern 
creates an interesting juxtaposition between societal 
standards and natural beauty, causing the viewer to 
examine where beauty truly lies.
The quarterly Gallery Crawl makes a splash in Downtowns Cultural District
The Rubber Duck Project launches the Pittsburgh International Festival of Firsts on the Allegheny River, while galleries swarm with patrons exploring the Pittsburgh arts and culture scene
                  Maryyann Landlord | Junior Photographer
by Mairad Pettit | Junior Staffwriter[]
This quarters crawl also featured a number of 
Pittsburgh-speci?c explorations, most notably the PNC 
Legacy Project at 600 Liberty Ave. This exhibit has been 
open for about a year and is a permanent display of the 
rich history of Pittsburgh through visual images and oral 
histories.
Visitors are able to compare and contrast images of the 
city in the past and present through interactive touch 
screen displays, featuring notable locations such as the 
North Shore. The exhibit also showcases an interactive 
wall projection of the city skyline in 1951. As you walk 
toward the wall, the projector senses your presence, and 
the image shifts to a 2013 skyline in the space where 
your shadow would normally be.
Just to the right of that piece, small boxes are suspended 
from the ceiling, each containing a miniature speaker. 
Each box features a short oral history of Pittsburgh by 
notable residents  such as founding owner of the 
Pittsburgh Steelers Art Rooney  accessible by pressing 
a button and holding the speaker up to your ear. The 
exhibit is an interesting look back on the citys history in 
the midst of such modern art in the district.
Other features of the event included interactive activities 
that invited the attendees to become artists themselves. 
The Art of Pierogie Making at Braddocks American 
Brasserie and free dance lessons and demos at the 
Arthur Murray Dance Studio are just two examples of the 
inclusive nature of the event, where the lines between 
art and viewer were blurred.
The mixture of function and form was also present in the 
kNOT Dance at Verve Wellness. Three pieces of brightly 
colored fabric were suspended from the ceiling, creating 
swings on which dancers performed.
The dancers showcased their skills as they climbed, 
swung, and hung from the fabric, bringing to mind 
acrobats in a circus. The graceful beauty of their 
movements contrasted with the industrial setting of 
what appeared to be a transformed storage loft, creating 
a juxtaposition that perfectly represents the city of 
Pittsburgh and its history.
Down the street was the most functional art of the 
night: Art Car Round Up, a showcase of four highly 
decorated cars at 8th Street and Penn Avenue. Greg 
Phelpss That Car #3 is a Nissan Versa covered in small 
round mirrors, stones, corks, and bumper stickers. Upon 
closer inspection, the cars immediate aesthetic beauty 
becomes distorted by the various doll pieces placed on 
the car. Arms, legs, and a few heads can be seen amidst 
the shiny pieces that dominate the display.
According to Phelps, this is the only car he owns, and he 
drives it every day, calling himself the lazy mans good 
Samaritan: All he has to do is drive around and people 
are pointing and smiling, creating conversations and 
connections. That Car #3 is Phelpss third art car, and 
his art car project has progressed over two years. As for 
what motivates his process, Phelps simply says that its 
fun.
The Gallery Crawl can be overwhelming with so many 
sights and sounds ?ghting for dominance, but even 
a cursory exploration reveals hidden art and culture. 
Zucker said that the experience gave her a chance to 
explore Pittsburgh as a city in its own right and as a 
cultural center.
[Ive] never been downtown when it was alive, she 
said.
The event gives Pittsburgh the chance to come together 
to explore its art scene and get a glimpse of the city it is 
becoming. This falls Gallery Crawl explored perception 
and sense, compared history and the present, and 
mingled mature themes with childhood memories.
Most of the exhibits featured on Friday night are just 
beginning, so even if you missed the event, you can 
still experience the art. A complete list of exhibitions is 
available on the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust website, along 
with information about the Festival of Firsts.
Far left: Crowds of Pittsburghers flocked to the Roberto Clemente Bridge to catch a glimpse of the rubber duck. 
Left: After its launch, the rubber duck made a loop around the Point before settling by the bridge. Above: Model 
5 is among the pieces featured in Ulf Langheinrich and Kurt Hentschlagers Granular Synthesis and portrays artist 
Akemi Takeya in a series of manipulated images that aim to evoke a sense of schizophrenia and anxiety.
                  Maryyann Landlord | Junior Photographer
                  Maryyann Landlord | Junior Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

10fake
pillbox 09.30.13

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 09.30.1311
Kiltie As Charged by Charlie Shulman and Kairavi Chahal
cshulman@andrew.cmu.edu
Chans Life by Karen Nguyen
kanguyen@andrew.cmu.edu

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 09.30.13
Poorly Drawn Lines by Reza Faramand
poorlydrawnlines.compoorlydrawnlines@gmail.com
doghousediaries@gmail.com
Choosing A Superpower by Doghouse Diaries
thedoghousediaries.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 09.30.1313
Solutions from Sep. 23
CrosswordHard DifficultyMedium Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Hard Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Easy Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of
www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/sudokugen/Kakuro courtesy of www.KrazyDad.com
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue above it. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 09.30.13
1. Uncle Remus title
2. Actress Russo
3. Billy ___ had a hit song with White 
Wedding
4. Cabbage salad
5. Perch
6. Suffix with exist
7. Wager
8. Not much
9. Cowboy display
10. Sound investment?
11. Cushions
12. Quattro maker
13. The closest one to us is the sun
21. Simile center
23. Gray
26. In shape
27. Name on a bomber
28. Attack
29. Rumsfelds predecessor
30. Baffled
31. Fall guy
33. Ill will
34. Camp sights
35. Dispute
37. ___ degree
38. ___ kwon do
41. Freeze over
42. Suave
47. Missing
49. Torontos prov.
51. Dispatches
52. Greased
53. Select
54. Horse of mixed color
55. Dedicated to the ___ Love
56. Infrequent
57. Decline
58. Sea-going eagle
59. Wise one
60. Hill toy
63. Plant
1. ___-a-brac
5. Rod used to reinforce concrete
10. Pampering places
14. Change the decor
15. ___ a customer
16. Lacking play
17. Hydroxyl compound
18. Santas reindeer, e.g.
19. Icelandic epic
20. Free from confinement
22. Letter opener
24. Concorde, e.g.
25. Sugar suffix
26. Inventor Nikola
29. Put an upper limit on
32. Plantain lily
36. Draft classification
37. Write down
39. Apiece
40. In spite of
43. Xanadu band
44. Curd stuff
45. Words to Brutus
46. Mother of Perseus
48. Negative vote
49. Corpulent
50. Clear tables
52. Lennons lady
53. Flourish
57. See
61. Actress Skye
62. Like Fran Dreschers voice
64. Sea east of the Caspian
65. Capital of Calvados, in NW 
France
66. Honeybee
67. Splendor in the Grass 
screenwriter
68. Work with needles
69. Stitched
70. Hollow grass
ACROSSDOWN
Heisenscopes
skylerBumps into Ted Beneke at the grocery store and gets 
rehired at Beneke Fabricators.
marie
 
Gets caught stealing from Macys and spends six months 
picking up trash on the side of the highway.
walt jr.Becomes a DEA agent to avenge his uncles death.
saulFinally settles down with a nice girl in Nebraska and is now 
a stay-at-home dad.
jesseCleans up and stays in Albuquerque to become Brocks 
cool uncle.
bogdanGoes on to become a multimillion-dollar car wash-chain 
owner, with car washes in over 30 countries.
huellEmerges from the safehouse a few months later and is 
very confused as to where Saul went. Goes on to have a 
successful career in stand-up comedy.
badgerTries to get Jesse to start cooking meth again and ends up 
with a black eye.
skinny 
pete
Finds Walts watch at a gas station and sells it for some 
crystal meth.
brockGoes into foster care and later finds out he is Tucos son.
elliott &
gretchen
Get divorced over a disagreement with what to do with Walt 
Jr.s trust fund when Gray Matter goes bankrupt.
hollyLearns about her father and decides to become a chemist 
like him.
Kairavi Chahal | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar 
pillbox 09.30.1315
MONDAY9.30.13
Terry McMillan Lecture. Byham Theater. 7:30 p.m.
Author Terry McMillan will give a talk at the Byham 
Theater about her new novel Who Asked You? The talk 
and book signing is presented by the Pittsburgh Cultural 
Trust and Pittsburgh Arts & Lectures. More information 
and tickets can be found at pittsburghlectures.org.
TUESDAY10.1.13
Colleen Green with White Fang and OUAIS. 
Mr. Roboto Project (5106 Penn Ave.). 7 p.m.
Los Angeles-based pop singer Colleen Green will perform 
at the Mr. Roboto Project with White Fang and local indiepunk band OUAIS. Tickets are $5 at the door.
WEDNESDAY10.2.13
Creative Writing Student Reading. Baker Hall Patio. 
6 p.m.
Join the creative writing department for the ?rst studentreading event of the year. The event will feature a few 
student readers and hold an open mic after the program.
THURSDAY10.3.13
Michael D.C. Drout: How to Read Tolkien. 
Wean Hall 7500. 4:30 p.m.
Carnegie Mellon alumnus Michael D.C. Drout (DC 90) 
will give a talk about the unique writing of J.R.R. Tolkiens 
work, including The Lord of the Rings trilogy. Drout is 
currently a professor of English at Wheaton College where 
he teaches Old and Middle English, science ?ction, and 
the works of J.R.R. Tolkien. The lecture is part of the 
Carol Brown Lecture Series.
FRIDAY10.4.13
Chairlift. Rangos Hall. 8 p.m.
Indie pop group Chairlift will perform in Rangos Hall at a 
concert presented by AB Coffeehouse. Local indie rock 
group the Artless will open. The concert is free and open 
to the public.
ONGOING
VIA Music & New Media Festival. Various locations. 
Through Oct. 6.
The fourth annual VIA Music & New Media Festival will 
take place Oct. 16 and will feature performances by 
primarily electronic musicians and visual and performance 
artists who are defying whats next in music, art, and 
culture. Festival headliners include Actress, KiNK, ADULT., 
Jacques Greene, and Jimmy Edgar, among many more 
artists, with the major music showcases taking place on 
the weekend. The festival also features ?lm screenings, 
interactive art and technology shows, and a series of 
exclusive mixes by international DJs and producers 
available on the VIA website. For the full lineup and 
ticketing information, visit via-pgh.org.
Summer Flower Show. Phipps Conservatory and 
Botanical Gardens. Through Oct. 6.
The Summer Flower Show at Phipps incorporates 
glass artwork into the gardens, creating a colorful and 
whimsical fusion of the arti?cial and the natural. For more 
information, visit phippsconservatory.org.
Express Burlesque. Cabaret at Theater Square. 8 p.m. 
Through Oct. 12.
This exciting, burlesque-style dance revue combines an 
old burlesque feel with a provocative-yet-classy twist of 
today.
Defending the Caveman. Cabaret at Theater Square. 
8 p.m. Through Oct. 20.
This one-man comedy show features humorous insights 
regarding gender and relationships.
Our Town. OReilly Theater. Through Oct. 26.
The Thornton Wilder classic about life in a small town  
and just how extraordinary such a life can be  will be 
brought to the stage in an upcoming production at the 
OReilly Theater on Penn Avenue in Pittsburgh, directed 
by Ted Pappas and starring Pittsburghs own Tom Atkins. 
For performance dates and tickets, visit 
trustarts.culturaldistrict.org.
Roads of Arabia. Carnegie Museum of Natural History. 
Through Nov. 3.
This exhibit transports visitors to the sands of Saudi 
Arabia, where recent archaeological ?nds rede?ne our 
understanding of the region. For more information, visit 
carnegiemnh.org.
14th International Exhibition of Botanical Art & 
Illustration. Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation 
(Hunt Library, Fifth Floor). 
Through Dec. 19. 
The exhibition will include 41 pieces of artwork by 41 
artists from 10 countries. The Institute established the 
International series in 1964 with the hope of supporting 
and encouraging contemporary botanical artists. Every 
three years the International series features the works of 
talented botanical artists from around the world.
Compiled by Allison Cosby | Staffwriter
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 09.30.13
Maryyann Landlord | Junior Photographer
Comedian Dan Levy performed at the Cilidh Weekend comedy show, 
sponsored by AB Comedy, on Saturday night in Rangos Hall. Levy is 
currently touring college campuses nationwide with comedy website 
CollegeHumor.
comedy.
