^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
Beauty And Beast Competitions 
Highlight Spring Carnival Week
Rita HickmanTita HirshnerPatty MurrayCarole Dennison
Sororities Present 
Queen Candidates
On this page are seven of Techs lovely sorority girls, 
each of whom would like to be the Spring Carnival Queen of 
1963.
Voting (by men only) will be this Friday, April 26, from 
8:30 to 4:30 in front of AH, EH, and Skibo.
? The candidates and their activi
ties: Rita Hickman, Delta Gamma,
The Tartan will devote space to 
those candidates running for the 
office of President of Student 
Congress. All candidates are urg
ed to present their platform and 
qualifications to the Tartan by to
morrow, Thursday at 4:30 P.M. 
Your statement will be published 
verbatim and should not exceed 
450 words.
June HelmersDinah MathiasDiana Dayton
Fraternities, Organizations Cast Ugly Men 
As Nominees In UMOC Campus Chest Contest
k
Ugliest Man on Campus stalks 
again! Alpha Phi Omegas annual 
UMOC contest starts next week. 
Everyone on campus (male and 
female) will have the opportunity 
to stuff the ballot boxes at a 
penny a vote. Unlimited voting 
not only lets everyone support his 
favorite ugly man as much as he 
wishes, but also greatly helps 
Campus Chest. The contest is con
ducted for the benefit of Campus 
Chest which distributes the funds 
to many worthy charities.
Voting stations for this years 
eighteen ugly candidates will be 
set up in Skibo Lounge and the 
Hunt Library. Vote there from 
8:30 to 4:30 on Monday and Tues
day, April 29 and 30 and Wednes
day and Thursday, May 1 and 2.
Many students wonder how 
UMOC originated. Many expla
nations of the birth of this ugly 
creature are prevalent. Some say 
that UMOC was accidentally in% terred in the walls in the con
struction of old Skibo; others 
claim that he escaped from that 
big pitt down the street; and a 
few swear that he emerged from 
the coal mines in the seventh sub
basement of Machinery Hall. But 
where UMOC came from is not 
important to the eighteen campus 
organizations which definitely 
feel that their ugly man will be 
this years successor to Techs 
# long line of U M O Cs.
These organizations feel certain 
they have the genuine UMOC; 
Beta Sigma Rho has Pete Brotman; Delta Tau Delta supports A. 
Wop Marino; Delta Upsilon runs 
Infidel; Phi Kapa Theta enters Joe 
Pellergrino; Pi Kappa Alpha nom
inates Elliott Milstein; Sigma Al
pha Epsilon picks Seg; Sigma Nu 
features Dale Douglass; Tau Delta 
[continued on page 2]
Senior Music major from Emlenton, Pa., activities include Sigma 
Alpha Iota (music honorary), 
Opera workshop, Pittsburgh Civic 
Light Opera. Dinah Mathias, Sigma 
Kappa, Senior Drama major from 
Scranton, Pa., activities include 
Scotch n Soda. Tita Hershner, 
Kappa Alpha Theta, Senior Home 
Ec major from Emlenton, Pa., ac
tivities include President of KAT, 
cheerleader co-captain. June Helmers, Delta Delta Delta, Senior 
Drama major from Pittsburgh, 
activities include Mortar Board, 
Student Congress, Cameron Choir, 
Campus Chest, Drama produc
tions,
Diana Dayton, Kappa Kappa 
Gamma, Senior Music major from 
Harrisburg, Pa., activities include 
Sigma Alpha Iota, Dorm Council, 
[continued on page 14]
Pete BrotmanInfidelJoe PellegrinoElliot Milstein
Stu Silverstone Diaper, Son of TowelFred SammelGortburgerNeal HuguleyAlex Nesgoda
BronislawDuckThe HeadThe FerdSchmoleThe Bird
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE
VOLUME 55  NUMBER 24
OF TECHNOLOGY
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 1963

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, April 24, 1963
Competition Begins 
For King Of The Uglies
[continued from page 2] i being the Ugliest Man on CamPhi chooses Stu Silverstone; Theta 
Xi proposes Diaper, Son of Towel; 
Kappa Kappa Gamma, sorority, 
selects Fred Sammel of Kappa 
Sigma as their candidate; Amer
ican Society of Civil Engineers 
count on Gortburger; Cameron 
Choir backs Neal Huguley; Ex
plorers Club found Alex Nesgoda; 
the Finks favor Bronislaw; Mech
anical Engineers 3 V Club looks 
to The Head; Mens Dorm Coun
cil take The Ferd; Romper Room 
roused Schmole; and W R C T 
caged the Bird.
Now in the final week before 
the contest, all the competing 
groups will be vigorously cam
paigning in what looks like a 
really close contest to let every
one on campus know that their 
candidate is the genuine ugly man. 
The winner of the U M O C con
test will be announced on Satur
day night, May 4, at the Spring 
Carnival dance. The real ugly man 
will have the distinctive honor of
Tecli's Brass Choir 
Presents Concert
The Brass Choir of the depart
ment of music at Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology will present a 
program of music by composers 
from Great Britain and America 
on Thursday evening, April 25, at 
8:00 p.m. in the Exhibition Hall, 
College of Fine Arts.
The Brass Choir conducted by 
Philip Catelinet will perform 
works by the British composers 
Rhodes, Bayco, Roberton, and 
Jacob. The American music will 
be represented by compositions of 
Franklin R. Moore, a student in 
the music department, Rozsa, 
Read, and DeYoung.
The concert is free and an in
vitation is extended to all who 
like to hear music presented 
through this medium.
UMOC
Is 
Coming
mi,
nODIANO
MU. 3-6992
 NOW SHOWING  
Thurs., Fri., Sat.
Mttrict Chevalier - Charles Boyer 
and Leslie Caron in
"Fanny"
in ealer
Ah* Natalie Wood - Warren Beatty 
in
"Splendor in the Gross"
In ealar
Starting Sun. Apr. 28,
Mon., Tues.
Aadrey Hepburn - Henry Fonda in
"War and Peace"
fid Walt Disneys
Islands of the Sea"
ii color
Midnight Shaw Fri. Apr. *6 - Featares 
Horrors at the Blaek Maseam 
in ealar pins
Frans Baanted Cave
pus. He also will receive the cov
eted ugly mug which holds three 
liters of any favorite ugly mix
ture. This years mug, an original 
design of Techs sculpture depart
ment, was made by Emily Hub
bard under the direction of Mr. 
Mills, head of the department.
Save your pennies and stuff the 
ballot box! Make your favorite 
ugly man happy  fulfill his life
long ambition  to be King of the 
Uglies!
Cwens Tap 
25 Freshman 
On April 21
Last Sunday afternoon, April
21, Cwens (the sophomore wo
mens honorary) held a tapping 
meeting. The freshmen women 
selected were literally surprised, 
since they did not know the pur
pose of the meeting to which they 
were invited until after they ar
rived.
Those tapped were: Jan Greifinger, Temple Stemm, Ann Sonkin, Joanne Rose, Marti Hodgson, 
Mary Jane Hebrank, Carol Kurtz, 
Nancy Troglione, Susan Witt, 
Joan Jacques, Linda Fain, Ginny 
Salko, Yvonne Simon, Barbara 
Lebeau, Susan Stearhardt, Rosalee 
Johnson, Lynne Jenkins, Judy 
Windt, Loma Hershberger, Judy 
Litman, Betty Kuhn, Betsy White, 
Sylvia Floyd, Susan Hartman, and 
Patricia Gardner.
Student Congress 
Holds Elections 
On April 30
April 30 has been set as the 
date of the annual Student Con
gress elections. On this day, at 
11:30, voting will take place with
in the various departments to de
termine the representatives to 
next years Student Congress.
As in previous years, the de
partmental representatives will be 
decided upon by secret ballot
ing, with each student in the de
partment having one vote. Rooms 
in which the voting will be held 
are: Chem. Eng.-E.H. 1112; Civil 
Eng.-P.H. 100; Mach-A.H. 231; 
Metallurgy-A.H. 317; I.M.-G.S.I.A. 
Auditorium; Drama-F.A. 110; Music-F.A. 107; Bio. Sc.-M.M. 127; 
Home Ec.-MM.14; Chemistry-E.H. 
210; Electrical Eng.-M.H. 11; Nat. 
Science-MM 112; Mech. Eng.-E.H. 
10; Physics-E.H. 2315; Arch-F.A. 
106; Graph. Arts-AH 232F; P.D. 
& Sculpturing-F.A. 308; Bus. & 
Soc. St.-M.M. 227; HumanitiesBreed Hall.
Since no nominations will Tie 
accepted from the floor, all per
sons who are interested in parti
cipating in Student Congress next 
year are urged to secure and com
plete a nomination blank. Forms 
may be obtained at Dean Stricks 
office, counselors rooms in the 
mens dormitories, fraternity 
houses, and Morewood main desk. 
Forms must be returned to Dean 
Stricks office by 4:30, Monday, 
April 29. No forms will be accept
ed after that time and date.
As established by the Student 
Congress constitution, any com
muter who has presented a peti
tion signed by at least 75 other 
commuters who have signed no 
other such petitions shall be a 
voting member of Student Con
gress. More information pertain
ing to this may be acquired in the 
Student Activities Office.
PRINTS and BOOKS - "ON SALE'
C.I.T. BOOK STORE
BEGINNING
WEDNESDAY
APRIL 24th
AN UNUSUAL 
LOVE STORYtDAViDSLiSASQ HILL I Seventh Wonderful Week
SQ. HILL  HA. 1-4909
New Policy  Daily Matinees 
Far This Engagement
CARN RAE GICSTTT IRU SIOA FH NL
SHARE TRANSPORTATION COSTS ON YOUR NEXT 
DATE! IT S CHEAPER THAN USING TAXI-CABS!
No rentals under age 21. For ages 21 to 25 there is a 20% additional charge and a cash deposit is required. Please note: Other car rental 
companies do not rent to drivers under 25.
BUDGET RENT-A-CAR Be auttyAndsCo umpi
609 Bigelow Blvd. (Across from the Corlton House) Pittsburgh 19, Pa.
Phone: 261-3320
Salzman To Assume Position 
As Associate Professor in Music
Theo Salzman, principal cellist 
of the Pittsburgh Symphony Or
chestra, has been appointed as as
sociate professor in the depart
ment of music, College of Fine 
Arts, Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology.
Mr. Salzman, a native of 
Vienna, Austria, studied at the 
Vienna Conservatory of Music 
with Julius Klengel. For 11 years 
he was solo cellist with the 
Vienna Symphony Orchestra play
ing under Richard Strauss, Klem
perer, Furtwaengler, Walter, and 
Weingartener, among others. Later 
he held the same position with 
the Israel Philharmonic and also 
taught at the Jerusalem Con
servatory. While with the Vienna 
and Israel Orchestras was fea
tured as soloist in many appear
ances throughout Europe and the 
Middle East.
In 1952 Mr. Salzman came to
the United States and to Pittsburgh 
to join the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra as principal cellist. He 
is a member of the Musica Viva 
trio which includes Bernard Gold
berg, principal flutist with the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, 
and Harry Franklin, pianist and 
associate professor at Carnegie 
Tech. Mr. Salzman is also a fac
ulty member of the International 
String Congress which is spon
sored by the American Federa
tion of Musicians.
Mr. Salmmans appointment will 
become effective on September 1, 
1963.
Eugene Eicher, now assistant 
professor of violoncello at Car
negie Tech, has resigned to accept 
a similar position at Texas West
ern College, El Paso. He will also 
be the first cellist of the El Paso 
Symphony Orchestra.
Be Shrewd , . .
kPh one:OFHa
QUALITY DRY CLEANING 
Fine Shirt and Laundry Service
CRANDALL-McKENZIE
3935 Forbes Ave. MA 1-7500
Open 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.
from our University Shop 
COOL WASH & WEAR SUITS
These good-looking, practical suits, made 
on our exclusive models, will serve you 
well for school now...for travel in Sum
mer. Included are:
Dacron Polyester and Cottpn Poplins in 
Tan, Light Olive or Grey, $42.50 
Dacron Polyester and Cotton Cord Suits in 
Blue-and-White and Grey-and-Whitey $40 
Dacron Polyester and Rayon Suits in, 
Glenurquhart Plaids, $47.50 
Also Dacron Polyester and 
Worsted Tropicalsy $65*
Price slightly higher west of the Rockiest 
ISTABLISHID 1ST
Ytake Hbkare.raheirtnge rk t.sge
600 SM1THF1ELD AVE., COR. SIXTH AVE., PITTSBURGH 22, PA. 
NEW YORK  BOSTON  CHICACO  LOS ANCELES  SAN FRANCISCO
I

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 24, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Pagre 3
J. C. Warner Plans RetirementHunt Botanical Library Opens 
Public Shoiv of Redoutes Works
 -------------------------
On CampusM& Shulman I
(Author of / Was a Teen-age Dwarf, The Many 
Loves of Dobie Gillis, etc.)
HOW TO SEE EUROPE 
FOR ONLY $300 A DAY: NO. 1
Summer vacation is just around the comer, and naturally all 
of you are going to Europe. Perhaps I can offer a handy tip 
or two. (I must confess that I myself have never been to 
Europe, but I do have a French poodle and a German shepherd, 
so I am not entirely unqualified.)
First let me say that no trip to Europe is complete without 
a visit to England, Scotland, Wales, Ireland, France, Germany, 
Spain, Portugal, Italy, Lichtenstein, Holland, Belgium, Luxem
bourg, Switzerland, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland, Po
land, Czechoslovakia, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, Russia, 
Greece, Yugoslavia, Albania, Crete, Sardinia, Sicily, Hungary, 
Rumania, Bulgaria, Lapland, and Andorra.
Let us take up these countries in order. First, England.
Dr. Warners foresight has help
ed to build Tech as we see it today 
and as we will see it tomorrow. 
Just last week he presented a fu
ture forecast of Tech 1972. This 
is what Dr. Warner sees for Tech 
then. With 3500 students3300 
living in dorms on campus, 1972 
at Tech will see the spending of 
$1,800,000 for financial aid. 
Techs faculty will have increased 
by 40% and Tech will spend 
nearly $7 million on research 
alone. There will be six new
fe ---------------------------------------
Library Exhibits
Garden Collection
The Green Thumb and the 
Early Suburbs, the subject of the 
current Hunt exhibit, is a display 
of books and periodicals of some 
nineteenth century garderer-author-editors.
 The literary work of John Clau
dius Loudon (1783-1843), his wife 
Jane (1807-1858), James Shirley 
Hibberd (1825-1890), and An
drew Jackson Downing (1815- 
1852) had a profound influence on 
the suburb as we know it today. 
Although the first three were 
British and the last an American, 
they all dealt with the same phe
nomenon. They were important 
mentors and purvyors of informat| tion to the great new middle class, 
which after 1800 began to form 
the suburban world, its houses, 
and gardens.
Loudon and Downing were 
landscape gardeners and horti
culturists of note, 'as well as ad
visors on domestic architecture. 
Hibberd was an authority on all 
aspects of gardening and Mrs. 
Loudon was the prototype of all 
suburban lady gardeners. Theyr
ail edited magazines; they wrote 
indefatigably and cultivated with 
assiduity in the suburban literary 
garden.
The exhibited material is loaned 
by the Hunt Botanical Library, 
Carnegie Library and Mr. van 
Trump.
It may be seen in the foyer of 
the Hunt Library during regular 
library hours from April 1st 
through April 30th.
From Presidency At Tech
The late Mrs. Roy A. Hunts 
collection of Redouteana, consid
ered to be the largest in the Unit
ed States, will be exhibited at the 
Hunt Botanical Library, Carnegie 
Institute of Technology. The ex
hibit was opened with a reception 
on Sunday afternoon, April 21.
The exhibition of more than 200 
pieces will feature original paint
ings, prints, autograph letters, and 
books illustrated by the artist. 
Pierre - Joseph Redoute (1759-
1840) is among the greatest botan
ical artists who ever lived. An il
lustrated catalogue, including a 
biography of the artist and criti
cal studies of his works will be 
available at the exhibit.
The exhibition will be open to 
the public and to students and 
faculty of Carnegie Tech, every 
afternoon, Monday thru Friday, 
April 22 - May 10, and every 
Wednesday afternoon until Aug
ust 1.
Dr. J. C. Warner will retire 
from the Presidency of Carnegie 
Institute of Technology within the 
next two years and the board of 
trustees has appointed two com
mittees to look for his
Dr. Warner, President of 
for the last 13 years, announced 
to the board of trustees last year 
his intentions of retiring as soon 
as they found a successor. A year 
has gone by, two committees have 
been formed, a long list of candi
dates has been compiled, but 
far there has been no successor, 
j The 65 year old President is
gible to retire this year, and by 
school policy must retire by his 
68th birthday. He has, however, 
indicated that he would like to 
retire as soon as possible that he 
might start a third career.
Dr. Warner came to Tech in 
1926 as an instructor, after work
ing in industry as a chemist. He 
was engaged in his early years 
in writing texts and research 
* ers in chemistry. In 1938 he 
came the head of the Chemistry 
Department and in 1945 he 
made Dean of Graduate Studies. 
Dr. Warner was then chosen, in 
1949, as Vide President to study 
under President Doherty. When 
President Doherty retired in 1950, 
Dr. Warner was chosen for the 
job.
Dr. Warner took over Techs 
Presidency while the campus was 
 just starting its post-war develop
ment. With Dr. Warners efforts 
Tech has grown today to twice 
the size of the small 1949 campus. 
Dr. Warner as President has been 
responsible for the success of the 
ten year redevelopment program 
which has changed Techs campus 
physically as well as academically.
'COCA-COLA" AMO "COKC" A*C <33Tf20 ?*AOC.WAffK5 WWW* 0*TtPV ONL* YM PttOO Of TMt COCA-COLA COMM*,courses.... ugh 
register... rush 
stand... wait... 
shuff le... go... 
twitch... fidget 
...yawn...stop 
move... nearer 
nearer... filled 
...pause
take a break 
...things go better 
with Coke
fe dd ones r? tfacMi wa/
The capital of England is Londonor Liverpool, as it is 
sometimes called. There are many interesting things to see in 
Londonchiefly the changing of the guards. The guards are 
changed daily. The old ones are thrown away.
Another must while in London is a visit to the palace of 
tl e Duke of Marlborough. Marlborough is spelled Marlborough,, 
but pronounced Marlboro. English spelling is very quaint, but 
terribly disorganized. The late George Bernard Shaw, author 
of Little Women, fought all his life to simplify English spelling. 
They tell a story about Shaw once asking a friend, What doe# 
g-h-o-t-i spell?
The friend pondered a bit and replied, Goatee."
Shaw sniggered. Pshaw, said Shaw. G-h-o-t-i does not 
spell goatee. It spells fish.
How is that? said the friend.
Shaw answered, Gh as in enough, o as in women, ti as tn 
motion. Put them all together, youget fish.
This was very clever of Shaw when you consider that he was 
a vegetarian. And a good thing he was. As Disraeli once re
marked to Guy Fawkes, If Shaw were not a vegetarian, no 
lamb chop in London would be safe.
But I digress. We were speaking of the palace of the Duke of 
Marlboroughor Marlboro, as it is called in the United States. 
It is called Marlboro by every smoker who enjoys a fine, rich 
breed of tobaccos, who appreciates a pure white filter, who likes 
a soft pack that is really soft, a Flip-Top box that really flips. 
Be sure you are well supplied with Marlboros when you make 
your trip abroad. After a long, tiring day of sightseeing there 
is nothing so welcome as a good flavorful Marlboro and a foot
bath with hot Epsom salts.
Epsom salts can be obtained in England at Epsom Downs. 
Kensington salts can be obtained at Kensington Gardens, 
Albert salts can be obtained at Albert Hall, Hyde salts can be 
obtained at Hyde Park, and the crown jewels can be obtained 
at the Tower of London.
The guards at the Tower of London are called Beefeater 
because they are always beefing about what they get to eat. 
This is also known as cricket or petrol."
Well, I guess that about covers England. In next week'* 
column we will visit the Land of the Midnight SunFranoe.
@1903 Max StmlOM.
* * *
Wherever you may roam in Europe and in aU fifty states of the 
Union, youll find Marlboro ever-present and ever-pieasantfilter 
flavor, pack or box.
President Warner
buildings on campus; two research 
buildings, more student housing, a 
new dramatic arts center. In 
June, Tech will grant about 1275 
degrees of which about 40% will 
be graduate degrees. These and 
many other ideas are all Dr. War
ners Tech in 1972.
Techs growing will not end 
with Dr. Warners retirement for 
his advanced planning will pro
vide ideas to future administra
tions, In this respect the students 
at Tech and future students at 
Tech will always be greatly in
debted to President J. C. Warner.
osggw@1 ba1@k g.@ nbg.skrg9 st 
N.@ Gs0n3Gswn GsMxna9 m9l
QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA 
BOTTLING COMPANY 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, April 24, 1963
Editorial
Vote No
Last week, the finance committee of Stu
dent Congress submitted a proposed student 
activities budget for 1963-64. The budget was 
based on the requests of each activity. The 
future plans of the publications and the pos
sibility of a humor magazine were not ma
terially considered.
Although the Financial Board has been 
created to handle the budgets of the publica
tions, this proposed budget, disregarding the 
Board, cuts one publications allotment and 
calls for a 75% increase in anothers while 
appropriating no money to the Thistle. More
over, the new budget will give Ceilidh, a so
cial organization, $100. Perhaps that money 
can be better used by any of Techs fraterni
ties; at least they dont charge admission to 
their events.
Congress should cut Ceilidhs budget and 
lower both their own budget and reserve 
fund. (They intend to raise their budget to 
$300 and increase their reserve fund 150%). 
They should awrard a smaller budget to the 
individual publications than is planned, put
ting the extra money into the hands of the 
Financial Board. It also would be wise to 
give the proposed money for the reserve fund 
to this Board. This method will be more flex
ible: the Board can allocate funds to the 
publications throughout the year and accord
ing to their individual needs.
This budget will be considered at the Stu
dent Congress meeting of May 1. The Tartan 
urges all members to vote against the budget 
as it stands.
Six Down!... More To Go?
Another door collapsed in Skibo this past 
Saturday. As in the five previous cases, the 
huge plate of glass just shattered and fell out 
of the frame. It is obviously expensive to 
buy and install a large tinted pane of glass. 
Moreover, should a falling sheet of glass in
jure a bystander, the Skibo staff would be
Readers Write
inconvenienced. The Tartan would like to 
offer these suggestions: 1) Dont replace the 
glass: Skibo can use some fresh air. 2) Use 
the money that you would spend on the glass 
to have the floors of the classrooms in Ad
ministration Hall mopped regularlya situ
ation that is far more serious.
M.L.S.
Campus Expresses Complaints
Morewood Maids 
Endanger Campus
Editor, The Tartan:
In the interest of the male 
students of Carnegie Tech, I 
would like to point out a dan
ger forced upon us by the De
partment of Physical Education. 
Daily we must walk in the vi
cinity of the tennis courts, 
where the Amazons of Mar
garet Morrison practice their 
deadly aim with bows and ar
rows. Deadly, yes. It would be 
a tragedy to find a mortally 
wounded student lying on the 
sidewalk. Especially in danger 
are the innocent tennis play
ers, who find it hard to concen
trate on their game when at 
any moment an arrow might 
pierce them.
Even if these female marks
men say they are not endan
gering pedestrian students, I 
protest their presence from an 
aesthetic point of view. The 
men of this campus have put 
up passively with the Morewood maidens throughout the 
year. But now, when these fe
males force their bared corpulant limbs, garbed only in 
brief gym suits, before our eyes, 
I firmly protest.
To solve this disgraceful and 
dangerous situation, I propose 
that these Amazons practice 
their skill on the bank beside 
the track. The men will no 
longer be in danger or be forced 
to look upon this indecent 
spectacle. Any repulsed Donner 
Hall residents merely have* to 
lower their shades to avoid any 
of these unpleasantries during 
the day.
I respectfully place my sug
gestion before the Department 
of Physical Education.
James McChesney '66
Student Meets 
Opposition To Art
Editor, The Tartan:
Two of my friends have written 
letters to the Tartan, each ex
pressing his complaint with the 
art of the Twentieth Century.
I, too, have a complaint with 
modern art, a quite simple and 
personal one.
First, I must explain that 1 am 
not an extraordinary-looking
girl. I dress and conduct myself 
in quite a conventional way. No 
one could pick me out in a crowd 
as a student of Painting and De
sign. I have had the experience 
of trying to rent a room in this 
community to occupy for the
:drsAuticbtA wbscis
By Robert E. Godt
A Hard Look 
At The Economy
l :irIMA br cpA oiu,rAss
By Jeffrey Axelrad
Scandal
summer, in order to be able to 
use the schools facilities. The 
interview with the landlady 
went smoothly, and I was as
sured that room was available 
right up to the moment I men[continued on page 5]
Nation-wide competitive selling of mass-produced con
sumer products has enlivened and emboldened the advertis
ing business. Since many products like table salt, sabre 
saws, and vodka are necessarily indistinquishable, the brains 
of the ad companies are hardput to create the product dif
ferences which foster consumer loyalty to a particular 
brand. The first rudimentary step was the catchy brandname  Klennex, Frigidaire, Edsel  and then there was 
the forced product difference  low calorie aspirin or green 
soap flakes. These gave way to the jingle form of TV and 
radio advertising which has just about reached the surfeit 
point today. The customer could remember that clever 
ditty about a merry Oldsmobile but, when everyones 
product has a tune and small children sing bogus madrigals 
about bathroom tissue instead of the traditional Old Mac
Donald Had a Farm, the market has been super saturated.
The new wave seems to be the intense use of the per
sonal plug where a well-known individual will personally 
endorse a certain product. The question that never seems to 
arise is why this famous novelist turned Yak breeder knows 
any more about mouthwash flavor than I do. The whole 
process builds up antipathy in the consumer and his wrath 
prevents his rapid departure to the nearest store.
The lure of money baits even the staunchest celebrity. 
It would not be surprising to see the Duke and Duchess of 
Windsor plugging those matching going steady sport 
shirts or to see Ben-Gurion endorse Mrs. Schwartz gefilte 
fish. Pretty soon you wont gag when Harry Truman speaks 
because hell have been selling you frozen egg rolls or 
floor wax.
It is unfortunate that many of the people who would 
be big sellers today have died long ago. If that gray entity 
Madison Avenue could resurrect about one hundred of the 
old historical figures, business would really boom. Pushing 
this extension to the uttermost, envision the impact on Dixie 
Cup sales of General Lee, astride Traveller, sipping coffee 
from a paper cup. A foreword by Moses would have trebled 
the sales of Exodus and liner notes by Beethoven would 
make Bernstein a sax-player and RCA Victor a monopoly. 
Let Casanova plug goats milk and the present dairy indus
try would collapse.
Let Marquis de Sade use Sears and Roebuck tire chains 
and let the world go mad. For the good of the economy and 
the free world keep the sepulchers closed and lets make do 
with Casey Stengal and Norman Rockwell.
U.S. Grant, Warren Harding, Harry Truman, D. D. Eisen
hower, and J. F. Kennedy have had one problem in common 
that in all cases stemmed from their actions and decisions. 
Perhaps a hint would help the reader to identify the problem 
Teapot Dome, Sherman Adams, and Billy Sol Estes. Of 
course! Every name so far has been associated with corrup
tion and dishonesty in government. In all fairness it should 
be said that the presidents involved probably knew nothing \ 
of the doings of their appointees. In fact that was (and is) the 
problem.
Attacking corruption is a safe taskwho favors it? The 
problem becomes one of finding a workable solution. The 
present system does not seem to be working. Today high ap
pointees are usually suggested by the presidents friends and 
advisors (who may not be so honest themselvesSherman 
Adams), nominated by the president, and then confirmed by 
the Senate (which usually has neither the time nor the in
clination to make a really thorough investigation of the persons nominated.) After this cursory investigation, the per
sons chosen become administrators of the law. It would be 
comforting to think that any person who makes it through 
this gamut is free from taint or dishonorbut this has not 
been the case.
In most cases of corruption the presidents involved were 
quickly disassociated from the guilty persons by the public 
and press. It is difficult to understand why this is so.
The president has the responsibility to assure that his 
assistants are capable and honest; if he does not act respon-C^ 
sibly, who will? A great improvement in the quality of high
er officials may come about if, in the future, presidents are 
judged by the company they keep. If a president cannot ade
quately perform the functions for which he was elected, then 
it would seem that public opinion would be aroused, and the 
presidents reputation damaged. If a president of a corpora
tion were to appoint dishonest subordinates, he would cer
tainly be held accountable. Why presidents of the United 
States have immunity is hard to see. It is necessary that the 
protests be directed to the person responsible to correct them. ^
Then future officeholders may begin to be more careful in 
choosing our nations leaders.
This discussion is only a beginning. It is extremely doubt
ful that enlightened public opinion alone can correct the 
abuses that have been occurring since our country was found
ed. The first step toward solving the problem is to at least 
discuss it, and bring it to interested persons attention. The 
problem will not be solved if it is not discussed.
CARNEGIE
alfalH
:lmHnRnv nHeanaFav OF av:mHO^OOw
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief, MU. 2-9580 
Business Manager, MU. 2-8898; Advertising Manager, MU.
29753; Managing Editor, MU. 2-8959. Published weekly I
during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Annual Subscription Rate $2.50 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Editor-in-Chief ..............................................Miron Straf
Executive Editor ................................B. J. Zimnewicz
Managing Editor ..............................................A1 Pollock
Business Manager ...................................Michael McCoy 
News Editor .................................................Frank Brady ^
Assistant News Editor...................................Alma Rock
Features Editor ........................................Martha Siegel
Copy Editor .............................................Clarita Dzatko
Advertising Manager ...................................John Norris
Sports Editor ......................................................John Blue
Layout Editor .........................................Nancy Cameron
Secretarial Editor ........................................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor ..................................Tom Johnson
Editorial Board: Peggy Riva. Margie Paik, Annie Moser, Charles Hofook, Martin 
Ackerman. Elaine Grumer, Fritz Klinke.
Photo: Aron Collins, Bill Jackson. Russ Stinebaugh. ^
Secretarial Staff: Carole Breuer. Ann Carten, Nancy Beth Jacobs, Leslie McKinley, 
Sue Sterhardt, Lorraine Vinograd, Mary Muir, Jenny Low, Carol Young, 
Jane Samuels.
News Staff: Margie Park, Bob Wohlford, Justin Polulack. Colin Jones. Marty 
Moore, Fay Landau, Gladys Stalinsky. Jay Lapidus, Elie Denberg. Miriam 
Gilespie, Marion Mulligan, Lois Riva, Sandy Lancaster, Ellen Hamill, Nancy 
Adams, Sandy Byrr.e.
Circulation: George Kali. Tom Glassberg
Feature Staff: Marion Mulligan, Jennifer Low, Marty Sauer, Martha Hodgson, 
Irene Grandberg, Aril Soule, Jeffrey Axelrad, Jane Keeler, Sut Crytz*r, 
Bob Godt.
Copy Staff: Barbara Brown, Nancy Green, Jane Keeler, Mary Muier, Jane Sam
uels, Ginny Uliss, Verna Ream.
Layout Staff: Drew Lippay, Dick Elder, Tom Glassberg, Marion Mulligan, Su# 
Stitt, Al Pollock, Fritz Klinke, Holy Lawranee.
Sport Staff: Scott McCormick, Tom Terpack, Dick Elder, Ted Engelmann.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 24, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 5
SAVINGS EARN 
LIBERAL 
DIVIDENDS
OF 
SAVE BY MAIL  WE PAY POSTAGE BOTH WAYS  FREE ENVELOPES. TOO. 
SAVINGS INSURED UP TO $VBBBB BY AN U. S. GOVERNMENT AGENCY 
GET EXTRA EARNINGSSAVE BY THE TENTHEARN FROM THE FIRST
Headers Write
What IS Wrong 
With Todays Art?
[continued from page 4] 
tion that I was an art student. 
The lady apologized and ex
plained that it is impossible for 
her to rent a room to an art 
Student, though she has no objectios to students in general, 
and has many students as ten
ants in her building. This ex
perience happened not once, 
but several times. I have come 
to the conclusion that the only 
way to do a thing as simple as 
renting a room is to deny my 
profession.
Im not sure why it is necessary 
for me to do this. I wonder, also, 
Vvhy Im looked at suspiciously 
in a group of non-artists if I 
mention that I am an art stu
dent, though the people know 
nothing else about me.
I understand that in the past, 
previous to the Twentieth Cen
tury, the work of a great many 
painters has been criticised, and 
the attitudes of some painters 
have been despisedbut never 
^the simple fact that he was an 
^artist was enough to call down 
public discrimination against 
him. Painting was a normal 
and respected profession, at least 
as reasonable an occupation as 
that of a politician.
My point is that there is some
thing wrong with an art that 
brings disfavor to an ordinary 
person simply because he prac
tises it as a profession. I dont 
know exactly yhat has brought 
on this reduction of the social 
position of the artist, but it is 
clear that the problem exists to
day, and it is true not only to 
my experience but to that of a 
great many other people who 
call themselves artists.
There have always been bad art
ists and good artists, but in the 
past, even the worst of them 
were unable to render their pro
gression a despised and undesir
able one, and today, even the 
very best of them have been 
unable to elevate the profssion 
to the position it should hold, 
and traditionally has held: a 
profession of reasonable people 
with highly developed tastes and 
refined ideas.
There has to be something ser
iously wrong with Twentieth 
Century Art.
0 Sincerely,
(Miss) Carolyn J. C. Walker
Editors Note
The last issue of the Tartan 
(April 10), carried a letter en
titled P & D Questions Art 
EducationThe writers name, 
Thomas Potocki, Jr. P & D, 
was mistakenly withheld by the 
Tartan Layout Staff and should 
(jfchaue appeared with the letter.
Buggy Tradition Stays As Big Spring Event 
Tech Holds Races For Almost Half A Century
1936 buggies have that convertible look.
By Bob Godt
The first weekend in May signals Techs annual Spring 
Carnival and with it comes the long-awaited Sweepstakes 
Competitionbetter known as the buggy races. This event 
has been a main attraction of Carnival since its inception in 
the early years of the school when it was known as Campus 
Week. An institution so venerable as our buggy race de
serves to be chronicled, and its ?--------------------------------------------------------
history told to the student body the SAE buggy wheels chose to
as an example of a Tech tradition 
which had absolutely nothing to 
do with Andrew Carnegie, (al
though it was rumored in 1915 
that Mr. Carnegie offered to pur
chase that portion of Schenley 
Drive that is used as the race
course so that a winter ice-boat 
race might be held in his name).
Diligent application of the His
torical Method to the complete 
collection of crumbling 'Tartans 
and Thistles in the library re
veals the long and lurid history 
of our buggies.
Campus Week and its associated 
Sweepstakes races began some 
time around 1913, although then, 
it was apparently not so important 
as to rate stories in the Tartan. 
It continued as a minor event till 
1917 when the political fervor and 
the draft eliminated such frivoli
ties from American college life. 
After America had made the 
world safe for democracy and the 
boys had returned from Fort 
Benning, Campus Week was un
ashamedly reinstituted at Car
negie Tech.
The race-course itself has al
ways been the same. The ma
chines start in front of Margaret 
Morrison C.C., are pushed up past 
the gym, glide free down past 
the Conservatory, and are inter
cepted and pushed from Porter 
Hall to the finish at GSIA. Early 
in the 20s there was a pit stop 
somewhere along this route where 
the buggy was stopped and the 
left and right rear wheels inter
changed.
The race in 1921 was a real 
thriller, as that years Thistle 
says. The Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
buggy led the favored Iota Sigma 
Delta buggy by a good 100 yards 
at the top of the hill by the gym.
interchange themselves and the 
machine hit a tree and turned 
over, trapping the driver under
neath. ISD rolled past the wreck 
to win in the record time of 4 
minutes, 38 seconds. The SAE 
driver escaped with minor bruises 
and scratches, which none the 
less severely hampered his form 
at the festivities that night.
Along with Sweepstakes in the 
20s was a girls sulky race with 
competition for Best Dressed 
Jockey as well as fastest rig. 
This event died out with the de
pression when horses got scarce 
and is not worthwhile investigat
ing further.
In the 20s the entrants raced 
for fun but in the 30s they began 
to get serious about winning. The 
buggies of the 20s were made 
from just about anything  beer 
kegs, old mattress frames, etc.  
and were no more streamlined 
than is a keg or bedstead. In the 
30s the buggy frame and driver 
were covered with a streamlined 
pad made of airplane cloth 
stretched over an aluminum 
frame. 'Jhe term buggy might 
have arisen from the similarity 
between these cloth coverings and 
the sun-hood on a baby buggy, 
although the etymology of the 
name is still open to question. By 
the end of the 30s there had 
arisen the determination and sec
retiveness that characterizes to
days buggy builders. Throughout 
this period Pi Kappa Alpha had 
a buggy which looked like an 
elongated lady bug with handles 
and which won consistently.
With the advent of World War 
II and aluminum hoarding, the 
race and Spring Carnival (nee 
Campus Week) was again disconBut, down by Westinghouse pond,1 tinued. After the war campus life
1956 shows advanced, streamlined stvlina.
began again and Carnival with it. 
The Delta Tau Deltas began to 
win the race and they won every 
year till 1954. It was this year 
that the Alpha Tau Omegas won 
with a buggy called Green 
Flash. In 1955 the ATOs first 
entered their perennial Goose 
which won with a time of 2:26 
and which has since become a 
legend of racing equal to Whirlaway or Wagners Valkyries.
Historically the Sweepstakes 
Races are couched in tradition 
and are accurate, though pretty 
irrelevant indicators of the flavor 
of their era. This years race 
proves to be one of the best with 
its fierce rivalries and abstruse 
scientific and philosophical theo
ries of racing. It may be this year 
[continued on page 13]
Welcome Students !
MEET TOM AND PAUL  HAIRCUT SPECIALISTS
Crew-cuts, Flat-tops, Princeton Ivy League
ARGIE'S BARBER SHOP
Beautiful  Modern  Reasonable 
118 Oakland Ave. Between Forbes and Fifth
]ccdrs Idr
Aius
CRICKETEER
sLducYdics
This Cricketeer look harks back to days when sports cars were 
longer, the Twenties roaring. Up-dated now in slim ticking stripes, 
wider blazer stripes or certified checks, all drawn on clean white 
backgrounds. Essential for the summer Circuit Cricketeer tailored 
in Dacron* polyester and worsted to keep the trim, natural lines 
in shape. $29.95
Authentic button down thirls In to Ms and stripes, from $5.00 to $6.50.
Qllt? (Enarlj House
Traditional Apparel for Men 
5823 Forbes Ave. Squirrel Hill
Phone 521-7600
Open Tuesday and Thursday evenings util |:M

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, April 24, 1963
YR NWA WAE WLR SPYH DFS$
Ye g.re g.@ saw9 k@nesa tsk 
berah X@aa@a Sra okn0@k D
^CA Bracers rugged, long-lasting aroma is an ob
vious attribute. But is it everything?
After all. Menthol-Iced Skin Bracer ts the after-shave 
lotion that cools rather than burns. It helps heal 
shaving nicks and scrapes. Helps prevent blemishes. 
Conditions your skin.
Arent these sound, scientific virtues more important 
than the purely emotional effect Sktn Bracer has on 
women? In that case, buy a bottle. And have fun.
W
M t N N 6 N
era mkn0@k
'* Yi** ^ * V 
p> K e e ^ 
I a e e t !
TauBetaPi
Announces 
Officers
Tau Beta Pi, Engineering and 
Science scholastic honorary, has 
announced the election of offi
cers for the 1963-64 school year. 
The new President, Allan Bishop, 
is a junior majoring in il^chanical Engineering. His activities 
include Pi Tau Sigma, Scabbard 
and Blade, LSA, ASME, and 
SAME.
The other newly-elected offi
cers are:
Vice President - Stephen Nygren, 3 EE; Treasurer - Roy Al
len Westerberg, 3 EE; Recording 
Secretary - Joseph Schlitt, 3 Met; 
and Corresponding Secretary - 
Robert Godt, 3 EE.
SnS Nears Big Night
By Peggy Riva
Tension and excitement are mounting among all Tech 
students currently involved in the 1963 Scotch n Soda Pro
duction, Miss Stars and Stripes  opening night is less than 
a week away! Rehearsals are taking place in one part of the 
| Skibo Ballroom, while the special Sn S stage is being con
structed in the other. Sets and costumes are being put to
gether downstairs in Skibo, and the business managers are
j wildly running over the campus ?------------------------------------------------
selling tickets.
Oct. Deadline 
Set For A wards
Applications for Fullbright 
awards for graduate study abroad 
in 1964-65 are now available. 
There is no restriction as to field 
of study.
Interested students who will 
be seniors or graduate students 
next year should see Mr. Parshall, A.H. 260, as soon as con
venient for information or for 
application. They are required to 
have the informal endorsement of 
their department heads as prom
ising before they receive appli
cations.
The local deadline for the com
pletion of applications is Octo
ber 21, 1963, but it is desirable 
that the work of preparing them 
be done during the summer.
The general manager of the 
Stars and Stripes contest thinks 
that this will be the greatest con
test that Miss SnS has ever 
put on. I attempted to interview 
Duenna Dunkirk, the house
mother of the show, but she was 
so busy tallying up the girls 
j points that it was impossible to 
j g-'t hold of her.
The contestants all had varying 
reactions to the contestMagno
lia Murphy thought that this was 
i the most exciting thing in the 
whole world; Vera Vaughn had 
! hoped there would be some men 
in the contest; Clare Tuttle was 
suffering from a persecution com
plex and was unable to answer 
any questions; Dona OBrien
| d.dnt seem to hear me, even 
though I must have asked her at 
least thirty different questions;
; Pauline Ofterdinger only wanted 
j to win, while there was no doubt 
; in Paula Westlakes mind that 
SHE would be *he winner; Jeannie 
| Williams thought the contest was 
j very nice; Virginia Raleigh was 
! practicing a number and refused 
to speak to me; Betty-Lou Smith 
almost hit me with a tennis rack
et when I approached her, and
| Jennifer Manchester started talk
ing so much that I thought it 
1 was high time for me to leave.
I was sorry that I had to leave 
1 so early because there were many 
i more people to meet and know, 
and I had hoped that the Tartan 
readers could get to know all of 
them better. But there is a way 
that you can get to know them, 
and thats by coming to see
SnS Miss Stars and Stripes,
April 29 through May 2. See you 
there!
Government 
A wards Grants 
For Grad Study
More than 800 United States 
government awards will be avail
able to qualified American grad
uate students for study or re
search in any one of 49 countries 
during the 1964-65 academic year. 
The graduate fellowships, avail
able under the Fulbright-Hays 
Act of 1961, are administered by 
the Institute of International Edu
cation as part of the educational 
exchange program of the Depart
ment of State.
There are three types of awards: 
U.S. government full grants; joint 
U.S.other government grants; 
and U.S. government travel-only 
grants.
Students now enrolled in a col
lege or university should consult 
their campus Fulbright Program 
Adviser about applying for the 
1964-65 scholarships. All others 
may secure information and ap
plication forms from the counsel
ing division of the Institute of In
ternational Education, 800 Second 
Avenue, New York 17, New York; 
or from any of IIEs regional of
fices. All requests for application 
forms must be postmarked by 
October 15, 1963. At-large appli
cants must submit their completed 
applications to HE by November
1, 1963. Enrolled students must 
submit applications to the campus 
Fulbright Adviser by the respec
tive closing date on campus.
RulesCommittee Writei8
A Revised Handbook
By Tom Pyke
The Rules Committee of Student Congress has this year 
developed the idea for a new Student Handbook. The pro
posed new handbook will contain the contents of the White 
Book in addition to information concerning activities that ^ 
should be readily available to every Tech student.
Two years ago the Executive Council of Student Govern
ment directed the Rules Com-* 
mittee to consider a revision of 
the White Book. Objections were 
raised of the formal structure of 
the White Book, the need for so 
many regulations in certain areas, 
and the general effectiveness of 
the book in its present form. The 
committee considered minor 
changes in wording and other 
changes in the general presenta
tion, but never developed enough 
material to make a proposal.
Considering this work, and not
ing that a Student Handbook had 
been published two years ago 
containing information primarily 
of interest to freshmen, the Rules 
Committee began plans for com
bining the White Book with other 
information to provide a really 
effective handbook  a reference 
for all students as well as an in
troduction to life at Tech for in
coming freshmen.
A proposal was submitted to 
the school administration asking 
for financial support since such a 
handbook would contain the 
school rules for students as well 
as the additional information. 
Within the last two weeks, the 
Committee was notified that funds 
are available, so the members of 
the Committee began Writing the 
Handbook. With the help of sev
eral other committees of Student 
Congress, as well as of the Scimi
tars, all available material has
been compiled and the handbook 
is in the final stages of prepara
tion.
The Handbook includes a sec
tion on Student Responsibility, 
stating the basic philosophy of 
Carnegie Tech toward the behav
ior of students, a section outlining 
academic procedures, and information about the uses and hours 
of the various buildings on cam
pus. Extracurricular activities are I 
presented with an emphasis on 
student participation and under
standing of the organizations, in
cluding the regulations guiding all 
student activities. The Handbook 
concludes with a review of cam
pus lore, Tech history and tra
ditions, which is being prepared 
by the Scimitars.
An effort has been made by the 
Rules Committee to include all 
information that is needed by stu
dents during their undergraduate 
years. The Handbook will be dis
tributed to every Tech under
graduate student in the fall, and 
should provide the missing link 
betv/een students and the activi
ties on campus  perhaps the 
missing link that causes apathy 
in its many forms.
The members of the Rules Com
mittee are Tom Pyke, chairman,
Bob Mills, Jack Turk, Gerry Eck
stein, Keith Pierce, and Lee 
Weller.
Why you should buy from
4]
IT S OLD . . . LARGE . . . STRONG
One of the countrys oldest, largest, strongest life in* 
surance companies 
Over nine billion dollars of life insurance in force
Over two billion dollars of assets . . . 10th among 
American life insurance companies . . . 40th among 
corporations of all types
ft)IT S MUTUAL
Owned by its policyholders ... no stockholders 
Substantial dividends paid to policyholders every year 
since 1869
IT'S SAFE . . . SOUND
Complies with the rigid standards of the insurance de
partments of all states, District of Columbia, Hawaii and j
Canada 
A century-old reputation for sound investment policies 
and practices
IT'S PROGRESSIVE . . . FAST GROWING
Has one of the ablest and best trained sales forces*
Has reputation for pioneering new policyholder benefits 
Selling about a billion dollars of new life insurance a
year *
IT SERVES
You will be assured of lifetime service no matter where 
your work may take you
No War Restrictions 
Full Aviation Coverage Available
^^]aAacLueit ^Ylutucil 
LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 
Springfield, Massachusetts
ORGANIZED 1851
C

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 24, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page A
UMOC
Is Coming
SARYLCS na1 ARuYRAACS
Looking for Work!
Consider Bremer and 
Walker Associates for 
your job placement. 
Engineers - Liberal Arts
Bremer & Walker Associafes 
976 Union Trust Bldg. 
Pittsburgh 19, Penna. 
Telephone: 471-9319
Greeks Choose 
Booth Themes
In keeping with the theme for 
Spring Carnival 1963, the frater
nities have chosen these Pheno
menal Phliques as the themes 
for their booths this year. ATOCarousel, BSR-P s y c h o, BTPPeter Pan, DTD-Perils of Pauline, 
DU-Steamboat Willie, KS-Three 
Coins in the Fountain, TX-Alice 
in Wonderland, PKA-Wizard of 
Oz, SAE-To Catch a Thief, SNStreetcar Named Desire, TDP-The 
Pit and the Pendulum, PKT-Ll 
Abner.
Besides these fraternity booths, 
the seven sororities will have 
booths on the midway, along with 
WRCT and Patterns. The Midway 
will be located on the Skibo Park
ing Lot, parallel to Forbes Ave
nue, next to the intramural field. 
Those organizations with booths 
on the Midway will be exempt 
from all parking meter regula
tions during the week of Carnival 
according to Chief Young, head of 
CIT security.
S *n S rehearses for big shows.
Never again! Never will this faithful reporter attempt 
to discover SnS secrets. They can keep them. Ill buy a 
ticket foe the show and make the discoveries with everyone 
else!
It all started when I decided to 
to get into rehearsals. All I could 
think of were all those beautiful 
girls. Hum!
Well, I made It past the ball
room door and was immediately 
caught up in a line of chorus girls 
who were dancing by. Next thing 
I know someone came along, 
grabbed me by the shirt tails, and 
said, you cant dance, we need 
you on paint crew.
As I stood bewildered with 
paint brush in hand, another fran
tic inndividual decided he needed 
me to model costumes and a mem
ber of the prop crew took my 
camera because it was just what 
they needed for scene III.
Then, there I was in the middle 
of the ballroom, dressed in lace 
and ruffles, with golden curls and 
someone screamedThat crea
ture is not one of us!
Needless to say, I was picked 
up bodily by Regina Ress and 
gently heaved out the door with 
these words: Young man, you
should be ashamed of yourself, 
dressing as a chorus girl to spy 
on us.
What did I see while I was in
side? Need you ask? I saw one 
line of beautiful dancing girls, 
one can of blue paint, and I had 
to witness the film from my 
camera being unrolled and handed 
to someone to be gilted (for stage 
effects, of course). All those pic
tures of beautiful girlsruined.
However, I am determined to 
see allbecause with all that ac
tivity and all those girLs the show 
is bound to be sensational. Im 
going to buy a ticket for opening 
nightthe doctor said Id be out 
of here by then, as good as ever.
Photo by Jim Pawley
S u S Reveals
Interesting
Information
Board Elects 
New Trustees
Nine prominent corporate ex
ecutives and educators have been 
elected to the board of trustees 
at Carnegie Institute of Technol
ogy, Mr. James M. Bovard, chair
man, announced today.
The election, which was held 
at the annual meeting of the Car
negie Tech board last night on 
the campus, included four new 
members, re-election of a special 
term trustee and two alumni trus
tees, and election of two former 
term trustees as life trustees.
The new members elected for 
first terms as special term trustees 
are Mr. Hall L. Hibbard, execu
tive vice prsidnt of Lockheed 
Aircraft Corporation, and Dr. Cal
vin E. Gross, superintendent of
[continued on page 13]
This reporter has finally caught 
up with Scotch n Soda Board 
Members! Lo and beholdthey 
were willing to divulge more in
formation about this years show. 
I could hardly believe it. It was 
not easy to understand them be
cause they were laughing so hard 
while trying to describe the 
show to me. Apparently its very 
funny.
What a scream! laughed Jon 
Parker.
Its too much! howled Jean 
Renaud.
Wait till you see it! screamed 
Butch Davis.
Heaven said Dean Brown.
Carole Haber said, Wait till 
you see me. Les will die!
The show is great. The girls 
are beautiful. Im sure that 
everyone will want to see Miss 
Stars n Stripes. Thank good
ness I dont have to chase after 
S n S Board Members to find 
out about their show. I have my 
ticketdo you?
Classified Ads
For Sale: Chevrolet - 1956 Bel Air Hard 
Top, V-8 Automatic: Power steering
and brakes; Radio and heater; low mile
age. Sharp $500. Campus phone 367. 
Home phone 767-4183.
PROFESSIONAL TYPING - HA. 1-1456. 
On electric typewriters, reasonable 
rates. Themes, Theses, Manuscripts, 
Term Papers, Applications, etc. Spel
ling errors corrected.
DANCE MUSIC  The Leo Alman 
Combo. HAzel 1-2083. Evenings.
STUDENTS: furnished room, cooking
apartment, near campus free parking. 
Near shopping center, summer employ
ment. (live here 12 minutes downtown) 
683-1143.
Nice 4-room bath furnished apt. for rent 
for summer up to 4 male students. Nice 
neighborhood, plenty parking. Light and 
airy trunk room. Call after 2:00 JA. 1- 
2497.
1 room with large home near campus 
for 1 or 2 women. Meals optional. MU. 
3-3239.
PROFESSIONAL TYPING - HA. 1-1456. 
On electric typewriters, reasonable 
rates. Themes, Theses, Manuscripts, 
Term Papers, Applications, etc. Spel
ling errors corrected.
SHOESSHOES
WALLYS
Campus  FavoredWomen Men
SHOES
SMART CASUALS
LOAFERS
FLATS
DRESS SHOES
HUSH - PUPPIES 
LOAFERS 
MASSAGIC 
FLORSHEIM
U.S. KEDS
3612 FORBES AYE. (Across from Strand Theater)
Reporter Fails To Discover Facts
ii

---------------------------------------------------

Its tough to get a story these days. After being sent from 
one person to the next, to the next, and back to the first; after 
waiting through several quarter-hours and as many cigaret
tes; after being thrown almost bodily out of a rehearsal, this 
reporter was finally able to speak to members of the cast 
and crew of the drama departments current production,
The Bacchae. ?--------------------------------------------------
This is the third production of She is amazingly accomplished. 
the Greek tragedy for director
Minos Volanakis who uses his own 
translation because he feels others 
miss the point of the play, ac
cording to Joe Leonardo, assistant 
director. Mr. Volanakis originally 
did the translation in 1958 for a 
London production.
His directoral concept of the 
Bacchae is complete, exciting, 
t.nd modern to a terrifying de
gree, said Jeff David, cast in the 
leading role of Dionysus, and he 
has the patience of a god. Stu
dents working with Volanakis are 
especially impressed with his ex
citing and challenging personal
ity, his deep intensity, and his 
"fantastic knowledge of the the
ater.
Working with Volanakis has 
been the most profitable experi
ence Ive ever had. He gives me 
enthusiasm and a feeling of se
curity in my part, said one cast 
member. Another added, Minos 
is unique and marvelous; I adore 
him.
Mrs. Zou Zou Nicoloudi, choreoA member of the chorus said 
that working with her was the 
best experience in movement she 
had ever had. She has a rare in
tensity and depth of feeling; this 
campus needs more people like 
her.
Many of the cast members felt 
"The Bacchae was the most dif
ficult play they had ever done. 
I find playing a god very hard, 
said Jeff David, I found trying 
to get tickets even harder.
The music, written by Elizabeth 
Luytens, was scored for this 
translation and uses the plays 
choral odes which Volanakis put 
into lyric form. Modern, disso
nant harmony was used because it 
best expresses the mood and 
spirit of The Bacchae, said Joe 
Leonardo. Because of its intricate 
difficulties, the music was record
ed for the production by the 
Pittsburgh Symphony.
The same dissonance found in 
the music is reflected in the scengrapher for The Bacchae, has ery designed by Fred Youens, a 
generated a similar reaction. Almember of the departments facthough her work was done priulty. Although the sets are made 
marily with the chorus, other up of traditional pieces, Mr. 
members of the cast had this to Youens has made use of asymsay about her: Zou Zou is a metrical balance rather than the
marvelous artist. 
more gracefully
She moves usual symmetry, 
than I ever prQp Crew uses' some inter
thought a human being could. es^jng techniques to maintain the
element of realism. In the last 
scene, Pentheus head is carried 
in on a pole. To achieve as close 
| muajciuufiiya : a likeness as possible, a death
j mask was made of Joe Klimowski 
who plays Pentheus. Joe, however, 
is still very much alive. Among 
other props needed were two sets 
of Greek castanettes  they are 
larger than the traditional Italian 
model and similar in shape to a 
vertical cross-section of an ice
cream cone. One set was brought 
from Greece, and the other was 
made by members of the IndusHelene Carrell - Nationally known trial Design department. The
Handwriting Analyst Appearing soldiers armor was made from
Nightly felt covered with several coats of
glue until it was hard enough to 
paint.
The last performance of The 
Bacchae will be presented this 
evening at 8:30 in the Fine Arts 
Theater.
pdcAM
WEBSTER HALL
Youll rate with your date...
For a meal or just 
a snackput Hotel 
Webster Hall on your 
close-to-campus entertain
ment schedule.
kote WebAtm Uo
4415 Fifth Avenu Pittsburgh 13, fa. 
Telephone: MAyflower 1-7700
CARNIVAL
MERCHANDISE
Complete Selection of Merchandise 
For Your Spring Carnival
 PLUSH TOYS  NOVELTY HATS
 BALLOONS  CANES
 GIVE-AWAYS  GLASSWARE
 ALMOST ANY ITEM YOU MAY NEED 
TO MAKE YOUR BOOTH A SUCCESS
JOHN ROBBINS CO.
1801 Forbes Ave. Pittsburgh, Pa.
GRant 1-7548
Page t  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, April 24, 1063
The Bacchae Brings 
Challenge To Drama Students
By April Soule
Photo by Bill Jackson
The Boccila chorus.
RLE SAA EWINdS RAE IN yLFC GWAOCLPAN UAIPACdS
tsbk prg.TTTtsbk prg.sbgTTT
IPP NL uL>
Chevy's got four entirely different kinds of bucket-seat coupes and convertibles to get 
your spring on the road right 
nowthe Super Sports! With a choice of extra-cost options like electric tachometers,
4-speed shifts and highperformance engines, theyre 
as all out for sport as you want to go!
First, the Jet-smooth Impala 
Super Sport with your choice 
of 7 different engines that range up to 425 hp and include the popular Turbo-Fire 
409* with 340 hp for smooth, responsive driving in city traffic.
Then theres the Chevy II Nova 400 Super
Sport. Special instrument cluster, front bucket seats, 
full wheel discs, three-speed shift or floor-mounted Powerglide automatic* and other sporty features.
Two more cures for spring 
feverthe Corvair Monza Spyder with full instrumenta
tion and a turbo-supercharged six air-cooled rear engine. And 
if you want to pull out fhe stops, the Corvette Sting Ray, 
winner of the Car Life 1963 Award for Engineering Excellence.
If the promise of spring has been getting 
to you, we can practically guarantee one 
Of these will, tool *Oplional o4 *xtra cott.
Alum Printers 
Gather Here
For Seminar
The Carnegie Printers Alumni 
will hold their annual Printing 
Management Seminar this week at 
Tech. The three days of seminars 
socializing will begin this 
Thursday, April 25, and will con
tinue until Saturday, April 27. 
Several hundred printing execu
tives from all over the United 
States who have graduated from 
Techs Printing Management 
School are expected to attend.
The schedule for the seminar 
includes a tour of the new 
Graphic Arts laboratories and 
seminars on various subjects of 
interest to printers. A social hour 
and annual banquet will be held 
Friday night at the Park Schenley 
Restaurant followed by a party 
for the alumni sponsored by the 
senior Printing Management stu
dents.
From the topCorvette Sting Ray Sport Coupe and Convertible, Corvair Monza Spyder Club 
Coupe and Convertible, Chevy II Nova 400 SS Sport Coupe and Convertible, Chevrolet Impala 
SS Sport Coupe and Convertible. Super Sport and Spyder equipment optional at extra cost.
1

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 24, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 9
0 EDy. ** U  il * *1   B BNNAEGU o Uo ^ AvP
EZ1 EeJ 1 ) fraV | [a* a | N | (tK|Hg rI N
Greeks Build Midway Booths, 
Use Phenomenal Phliques Theme
With Spring Carnival only two weeks away, the frater
nities and sororities are now hard at work building their 
booths for the midway. Just as last year, the Midway will 
be at the far end of the parking lot next to the intramural 
field. In addition to the fraternity and sorority booths, A Phi
0 will have several concession stands, where they will serve 
both hot and cold drinks as well as pop corn and snacks.
This year Patterns will have a#--------------------------------------------------------
booth on the midway in which 
^*ey will sell their publication.
WRCT will also have their booth 
this year.
The Midway will open at 4:30,
Thursday, May. 2, and will be 
open until midnight. On Friday, 
it will be open from noon to mid
night and on Saturday, from noon 
to 8:30. There will, of course, be 
no drinking on the Midway.
In keeping with the theme of 
Carnival, Phenomenal Phliques, 
the fraternities have chosen the 
following themes for their booths:
ATOPresents a Carousel 
which challenges visitors to toss 
hoops on the galloping horses in
stead of riding them.
BSR  Chooses Psycho for 
their movie. The object of the 
^ame is to guess the room in 
^which Tony is hiding his mother.
BTPAsks the visitors to help 
Peter Pan force Beta Captain 
Hook to walk the plank, into the 
sea.
DTDUsing The Perils of Pau
line, a melodrama filmed in 
1914, the Delts depict Pauline in 
two of her perils. Visitors at
tempt to save her and are rated 
n the Hero-Ometer.
& DUBasing their booth on 
"steamboat Willie, the first car
toon made by Walt Disney, DU 
presents a Mississippi paddle
wheeled steamboat, complete with 
gambling.
KS  Having chosen Three 
Coins in a Fountain, Kappa Sig 
presents a replica of a towering 
ancient Roman fountain, straight 
from the city of eternal love.
PKT  Presents Lil Abner
^vading the Marriage Stomp.
Help Daisy Mae by ringing the 
man of her choice.
PKAThe booth will have a 
4 hole miniature golf course, with 
each hole depicting one of Doro
thys adventures in the Land of 
Oz.
SAETo Catch a Thief all
you have to do is drop a lasso 
around the moving thief and you 
win your prize.
SNCatch The S'reetca 
Named Desire and youve found 
amusement, adventure, pleasure, 
and fun.
TDPIt was 
the region of 
would return 
down and still 
. . . Poe 
Pendulum.
TXThe visitor will 
Alice in Wonderland af the Mad 
Hatters Tea Party, and, amidst 
a multiude of color and mover 
ment, try to beat the Mad Hatter 
at his own game.
The fraternity booths will be 
judged at 6:30 on Thursday aft
ernoon and the results will be an
nounced at the dance on Satur
day night. They are judged on
Save
Your
PenniesforUMOC
1963SCIENCE and MATHEMATICS 
GRADUATES!
Prepare to teach as a Specialist 
in the Elementary School.
Consider New York Universitys Graduate Program . If you are a Liberal Arts graduate, in one year you can..
 C]iMbTD is i sLAYbiMbsc cAiYpAu dT sYbArYA du NicpANicbYs br cpA AMANArciuD sYpddMW
 dcibr i GiscAu dT lucs IAEuAAW
 uAYAbtA YAucbTbYicbdr is ir AMANArciuD cAiYpAuW
e:mO^lfemnXe FX aO BS*PPP lfv lwln^lg^vW
(Applicants must haw a general average of C+/ 
with a B average in their major.)
Write to: Afx@krM@agnw N@n0.rah G@ag@k 
New York University 
K,B Main obrw1rah 
Ene.rahgsa Scbnk@ d
R@p ysk 3 R@p ysk
N@wl SHkrah 73,BBB Afg@aersa 3B4
beauty, appropriateness and in
tricacy. Booths on the Midway, 
also, will be exempted from feed
ing the parking meters.
The sororities will have booths 
in which they will have mainly 
games of skill and chance. So, all 
in all, there promises to be more 
than a normal share of fun on the 
Midway this year.
Hi-Los, Alex Powell Band 
Entertain Carnival Goers
On Friday night, the Hi-Los 
will appear in a concert at the 
Tech gym. Since being formed in 
1953, the Hi-Los have risen to 
become one of the most popular 
vocal groups on the American 
entertainment scene. Over these 
years, their appeal has extended 
to include the young pop music 
buyer, the adult album buyer, 
and the dyed-in-the-wool jazz 
fan. First to establish their com
plex style of harmonic singing, 
the Hi-Los have virtually won 
every major music poll for vo
cal groups. Their exposure to 
the public both here and abroad 
has been quite varied and ex
tensive. They have appeared on 
radio and television, in movies, 
and at colleges and night clubs 
across the nation. They record 
on Columbia and Reprise records.
On Saturday nlgnt, Teen danc
ing partners will be led by Alex 
Powell and his orchestra. Alex, 
who hails from Cleveland, brings 
a group that is well known in 
the tri-state area. In Pittsburgh, 
the group has pleased audiences 
at the Holiday House and the 
Riverboat Room.
WORK IN 
EUROPE
MORE TRAVEL GRANTS
Apr. 19, 1963  The American 
Student Information Service, the 
only authorized placement service 
for American students seeking 
summer jobs in Europe, has in
creased from 1500 to 2000 the 
number of travel grants it will 
award students applying for posi
tions in Europe.
Job openings now available in 
Europe include positions at fac
tories, resorts, hospitals, farms, 
summer camps and in offices. Ap
plications are received until May 
31.Interested students may write 
(naming your school) to Dept. H. 
ASIS, 22 Ave. de la Liberte, Lux
embourg City, Grand Duchy of 
Luxembourg, for a 20-page pros
pectus, a complete job selection 
and application. Send $1 for the 
prospectus, handling and an air
mail reply.
The first 5000 inquiries receive 
a $1 premium for the new student 
travel book, Earn, Learn and 
Travel in Europe.
ivick up your neeis in tne new Adler Shape-Up cotton 
sock. Nothing gets it down. The indomitable Shape-Up
leg stays up and up and up in plain white, white with tennis p y
stripes, or solid colors. Ko matter how much you whoop y \ /y g j g\
it up. In the air, her Shapette, 69& his Shape-Up, 85ff. *,4.0*,

---------------------------------------------------

Paffe 10  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, April 24, 1963
A vanti-inspiredTTT 
Bonneville-tested!
R2 SUPER LARK 
R2 SUPER HAWK
UMOC
Is Coming
Architect Gets 
Recognition 
For Project
Vija Rivers, a sophomore archi
tecture major, has received rec
ognition for a project which she 
submitted to the Biennial Inter
national Exhibition in Sao Paulo, 
Brazil.
The project, a poster competi
tion for advertising, was orig
inally assigned to all sophomore 
architects at Tech. We had two 
days to dream something up, 
Viga said, and three hours to 
complete it.
Vijas professor suggested that 
she send her project to the exhi
bition. As a result, it was chosen 
as being worthy for presentation 
in a special part of the exhibition. 
One of seventeen such projects, 
it will be on display from Sep
tember through December.
Faculty Holds 
Book Exchange
The Welfare Committee of the 
General Faculty, with the co
operation of Kenneth E. Fagerhaugh and the library staff, an
nounces that the Sixth Annual 
Faculty Book Exchange will be 
held next month from May 13 
through May 21 in the Hunt Li
brary.
Faculty is requested to leave 
books, which are no longer use
ful to them, in the Processing 
Department on Monday, Tues
day, and Wednesday, May 13, 
14, and 15. All kinds of books 
are welcome, but each should be 
in good condition.
On Thursday and Friday, May 
16. and 17, members of the Gen
eral Faculty are invited to se
lect books from those accumu
lated earlier in the week. Books 
need not be contributed in or
der to make selections nor is 
there any limit on the number 
which may be selected from the 
shelves marked Faculty Book 
Exchange. On Monday and 
Tuesday, May 20 and 21, students 
and Carnegie Tech personnel are 
invited to make selections from 
the remaining books. Those books 
left on the shelves after Tuesday 
will be given to the library for 
its disposal.
Last year faculty members con
tributed 641 volumes, of which 
408 were taken by faculty and 
210 by students.
Trustees Elect 
Hunt Honorary 
Board Chairman
James M. Bovard, chairman of 
the board of trustees at Carnegie 
Institute of Technology, has an
nounced the election of Mr. Roy 
A. Hunt as honorary chairman 
and Mr. Lawrence Litchfield, Jr., 
as vice chairman of the board.
Mr, Hunt is the senior board 
member at Carnegie Tech and his 
$2,800,000 gift in 1958 made pos
sible Techs new Hunt Library 
which was dedicated last year. He 
continues as an active member of 
the Tech board and trustee com
mittees. He is chairman of the 
executive committee, director, and 
former president of the Aluminum 
Company of America.
The election of Mr. Hunt filled 
a vacancy created last year by the 
death of Benjamin F. Fairless.
Mr. Litchfield was elected to 
the Carnegie Tech board last year. 
He has been with ALCOA since 
1925, was made vice president in 
charge of the companys mining 
division in 1956, executive vice 
president in 1959, and president 
in I960.
King Discusses
Integration
The Future of Integration 
will be discussed in Pittsburgh 
next month by Dr. Martin Luther 
King, Jr., of Atlanta, Georgia, 
President of the Southern Chris
tian Leadership Conference.
Dr. King will be the guest 
speaker at a banquet to be held 
at 6:30 p.m., Wednesday, May
22, 1963, in the Pittsburgh Room 
of the Penn-Sheraton Hotel.
The banquet featuring the in
tegration leader is open to the 
public and will highlight the 15th 
annual Conference of Commis
sions for Human Rights, May 21- 
24 at the Penn-Sheraton.
Invitations to the banquet are 
being extended to all members 
of the community who have an 
interest in promoting equal op
portunity for all groups. Reser
vations may be made by phon
ing Louis Mason, Jr., at the Pitts
burgh Commission on Human Re
lations, Atlantic 1-3900, exten
sion 480.
The conference is composed of 
33 state, city and Canadian agen
cies which are responsible for 
administering enforceable anti - 
discrimination laws. These in
clude the Pennsylvania Human 
Relations Commission, which is 
host to this years Conference 
and the Pittsburgh Commission
[continued on page 11]
Sigma Nus Sell Brothers Saturday* 
To Raise Money For Campus Chest
We designed two new carsand built 
a lot of our record-setting Avanti into 
them: supercharged R2 engines... 
heavy duty springs and shock absorb
ers, plus anti-sway bars, front and rear 
...trac rods, rear...racing type disc 
brakes, the safest known and ours 
alone.
We named them R2 Super Lark and R2 
Super Hawk and had Andy Granatelli
take them out to the infamous Bonne
ville Salt Flats for final performance 
and endurance tests.
We could scarcely believe the results, 
but the official U.S. Auto Club timers 
confirmed them: R2 Super Lark132 
mph! R2 Super Hawk140 mph! Twoway averagesunder the most punish
ing weather and surface conditions. 
That kind of performance, combined
with their gentle round-town man
ners, told us these cars were ready. 
R2 Super Lark and R2 Super Hawk are 
now available on special order at your 
Studebaker dealers.
Flash: front seat safety belts now 
come factory-installed on every car 
another advance from Studebaker.Studebater
This Saturday, April 27, from 
1 p.m. on through the afternoon 
an auction will be held on the 
front steps of the Sigma NuT 
house by, for, and with tht* 
the brothers. The goal of the 
is to raise money for Sig
ma Nus UMOC candidate, Dip
py Duck. Objects to be auc
tioned include assorted clothes, 
white elephants, and the broth
ers themselves.
The brothers will be sold 
to the highest bidders, who then 
get their services for a maximum 
time of two hours. These ser
vices can be anything and can bf 
collected any time, anywhere.
So girls, if you want your cars 
washed for instance (you too, 
guys), be sure to go to the big 
Sigma Nu auction next Saturday.
if youre only a sadist (and 
want some one to torture), come 
anyway. The picture above shows 
just what you can get, if 
a high bidder.
Man awaits Sigma Nu auction.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 24, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 11
Tech Flight 
Leaves June 13
The Europe flight is leaving 
Philadelphia, June 13 for Lon
don and returns August 22 from 
London to New York. The Pan 
% American Airways 707 Jet will 
be in the air about 6 Vfe hours 
j on each leg. There is still room 
on this flight for Carnegie stu
dents, faculty, employees or their 
immediate family. The total cost 
is $310 round trip plus $20 ad
ministrative expense. For further 
information write Box 235 Car
negie Tech, or call Tom Steffen 
at 682-3621.
 Reverend King 
Visits Pgh.
[continued from page 10]
on Human Relations, which is 
assisting with Conference ar
rangements.
The banquet will be co-sponsored by a third organization, the 
Pennsylvania Equal Rights Coun
cil (PERC), which is composed 
of more than 40 religious, civic 
and labor organizations in the 
state interested in civil rights 
programs.
Warner Stresses
Technical
Co-operation
If we are to solve the many 
technological, educational, and 
social problems currently stifling 
the growth of the United States, 
we must make more effective use 
of the interdisciplinary attack, 
according to Dr. J. C. Warner, 
president, Carnegie Institute of 
Technology.
Dr. Warner, speaking before a 
national meeting of the Electro
chemical Society in Pittsburgh, 
cited eleven of the most pressing 
problems facihg the United States 
in these areas and stressed the 
need for a many-pronged attack 
on them. I am sure that many 
of you have seen how substantial 
progress has been made on many 
of the problems I have mention^ ed, he said, by bringing to
gether competent scholars and 
technologists from a host of per
tinent disciplines. However, Dr. 
Warner pointed out that these 
scholars and professional people 
must be provided with elaborate 
and expensive computation facili
ties if they are to meet these prob
lems.
Among the problems mentioned 
by the Carnegie Tech president 
^were the development of reliable 
missile systems, early warning and 
anti-missile research, weather 
prediction and control, aid to un
derdeveloped countries, unem
ployment, adequate rate of econo
mic growth, and finding the need
ed resources to provide adequate 
education from grade school 
through college.
Dr. Warner said that the rapid 
rate of change, and increasing 
 complexities which have altered 
our society drastically since World 
War II, have attached new im
portance to the scholar and pro
fessional man and have changed 
his relationship to society.
The Carnegie Tech president 
concluded by praising the Elec
trochemical Society for its pio
neering efforts in the interdiscip
linary approach and cited ex
amples of other professional soh cieties formed expressly for this 
' purpose. Today we see the 
growth of societies dedicated to 
fostering symposia and publica
tions in important interdiscipli
nary fields, he said, and in this 
respect the Electro-chemical So
ciety was ahead of its time.
Dr. Warner is a past-president 
of the Electrochemical Society. 
The Societys meeting was held at 
the Penn-Sheraton Hotel April 14 
^ thru April 18. The meeting mark
ed the first time the group has met 
in Pittsburgh since 1955.
Relays, Joust, Egg Throw, 
Traditional To Carnival,
Add To Weekend Schedule
This years Spring Carnival will again feature the an
nual sorority relays, plank jousting contests, and the faculty 
egg throw. The relays will be held on Friday, May 3 at 3:45
p.m. All seven of the sororities?  -------------------------------------------------
will be competing on the Quad
rangle between Administration 
and Engineering Halls. With each 
sorority . entering as many as 
twelve girls who will be compet
ing in the broom ride, Jaottle roll, 
and sack race, this promises to be 
an exciting contest of feminine 
muscular coordination.
Speaking of feminine muscular 
coordination, the plank jousting 
contest will be held Saturday,
May 4 at 2 p.m., behind Morewood Gardens. Each fraternity 
will enter at least one five-man 
team to compete in the annual 
Brawn versus Pillow (mud 
winning) fight.
Details about the egg throw 
have not yet been announced, but 
it also promises to be an exciting 
part of Spring Carnival weekend.
Carnegie Institute Renamed, 
Becomes Museum of Art99
Mr. James M. Bovard, President of Carnegie Institute, 
announces the change in name of the Department of Fine 
Arts. Henceforth, it will be called the Museum of Art. The 
decision to do so was made by the*
Carnegie Institutes Board of
Trustees at their meeting held 
on April 17.
This change in title clarifies the 
status of the museum, which has 
often been confused with Car
negie Institute of Technologys 
Fine Arts, and clarifies it as the 
art museum serving Western 
Pennsylvania.
The founding trustees of Car
negie Institute originally estab
lished the Department of Fine 
Arts in 1895. Known as the home 
of the Pittsburgh International 
Exhibition of Contemporary 
Painting and Sculpture, the Mu
seum of Art is the second largest 
art institution in the state of 
Pennsylvania.
Photo by Aron Collons
Broken glass facilitates entrance to Skibo door.
I*"Tareytons Dual Filter in duas partes divisa est!
says Marius (The Profile) Lucullus, star actor of the Players Romani. Gaudeamus, he declaims, 
at long last heres a filter cigarette with flavor bono  de gustibus you never thought you'd get from 
any filter cigarette. Ave Tareyton!
Dual Filter makes the difference
DUAL FILTER,
tredud of /u&uta* ts <*k middU n*mt 4 T G@3Tareyton
gs3 re rk middle name kPho t Cm.

---------------------------------------------------

ras* 12  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, April 24. 1963
University Of The Seven Seas 
Honors Eisenhower For His 
Devotion To Education Of Youth
Dwight D. Eisenhower was presented today with an 
educational link in the chain of people to people relationships 
as officials of the University of the Seven Seas presented 
to Mr. Eisenhower a plaque in recognition of his devotion to 
the education of youth. In responding to the presentation, 
Mr. Eisenhower noted the plans which will enable 1,000 
students to visit 17 countries as^--------------------------------------------------------
part of their academic studies and 
expressed his wishes for the suc
cess of the program.
William T. Hughes, President of 
the Board of Trustees of the 
the University of the Seven Seas, 
made the presentation to Mr. 
Eisenhower in company with Dr. 
E. Ray Nichols, Jr., Executive Di
rector, and Dean C. Delmar Gray, 
Associate Director.
The University of the Seven 
Seas of Whittier, California, will 
conduct its classes aboard the M. 
S. Seven Seas of the Europe-Canada Line, for which HollandAmerican Line is general passen
ger agent, beginning October 22 
when the ship puts to sea from 
New York on the first semester of 
its academic operation. Emphasis 
is placed on study of the follow
ing areas as the ship moves from 
country to country around the 
world: the Mediterranean, South
east Asia, and Latin America. 
Classes will be held on regular 
schedules under the direction of a 
faculty of intrnational experts 
drawn from many colleges and 
universities in the United States 
and overseas. f
In port, field trips are scheduled 
to enable students to inspect in
stitutions and facilities in the 
major academic fields as well as 
to see the points of significant in
terest. Transportation ashore is 
being arranged by Travelword, 
Inc., of Los Angeles. Dr. Nichols 
stated that arrangements are be
ing made for students to meet the 
important political, business, edu
cational, and religious figures as 
well as the local students in many 
countries. It is an opportunity, 
he stated, for undergraduate and 
graduate students not only to 
study the theory of international 
relationships but to see the world 
in action. The University will 
give courses in political science, 
economics, history, language, the 
arts, and other fields of student 
interest.
The University of the Seven 
Seas was founded in Whittier, 
California, and maintains its ad
ministrative office there. As agents 
for the University, Holland-America Line and Travelworld Inc., of 
Los Angeles, will handle the 
transportation for the voyage un
dertaken by the University. The 
minimum rate for one semesters 
study around the world with a 
maximum of 15Vz credits is 
$1990.00. (Information may be obMudge Sponsor 
Guest Speakers
Anne X. Alpern, Judge of the 
Court of Common Appeals of 
Pittsburgh, will speak at the 
Mudge Graduate House Forum 
on Tuesday, April 30. The forum 
begins at 6:15 p.m. and will meet 
in the livingroom of the Mudge 
Graduate House.
Robert W. Corrigan, Andrew 
Mellon Professor and Head of 
the Department of Drama, will 
speak on The Theater in Need 
of a Fix at the Mudge Gradu
ate House Forum on Wednesday, 
May 8. The Forum begins at 6:15 
p.m. in the livingroom of the 
Mudge Graduate House.
tained by writing to the Univer
sity of the Seven Seas, P.O. Box 
71, Whittier, California.)
Also, for those interested stu
dents who do not have the money 
to pay for such a trip, 10 scholar
ships are being made available to 
graduates and undergraduates. 
Each is worth $1000, and will be 
awarded on the basis of financial 
need, academic achievement, and 
an ability to represent this coun
try well.
Jane Scott And Thomas Garrett Receive 
Scholarships And Awards In Chemistry
Two seniors in the chemistry 
department, College of Engineer
ing and Science, Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology, have been 
awarded scholarships by the So
ciety of Analytical Chemists of 
Pittsburgh.
Laura Jane Scott and Thomas 
Boyd Garrett, both outstanding 
members of the senior class in 
chemistry at Carnegie Tech, were 
presented the awards at the April 
18 meeting of the American 
Chemical Society, Analytical 
Chemistry Group. Both have been 
good citizens on the campus and 
have shown distinct leadership 
capabilities. They will continue 
their education in graduate school.
Miss Scott is president of the 
Womens Dorm Council; and is a 
member of the Executive Council 
of Student Congress; American 
Chemical Society student affiliate; 
Mortar Board, senior womens
honorary; Phi Kappa Phi, scho
lastic honorary; Pi Delta Epsilon, 
publications honorary. She has an 
Armco Foundation Scholarship, 
Clifford B. Conneley Memorial 
Scholarship, Founders Scholars 
scholarship, and the Warner Prize 
for Seniors in Chemistry. Miss 
Scott is a graduate of LemonMonroe High School, Monroe, 
Ohio, and is the daughter of Mr. 
and Mrs. Russell Lawson, 1611 
Dix Road, Middletown, Ohio.
Mr. Garrett is a member of the 
American Chemical Society stu
dent affiliate and the National 
Society of Scabbard and Blade. He 
is attending Carnegie Tech on a 
Texaco Scholarship. He is a grad
uate of Scott Township High 
School, Carnegie, Pennsylvania, 
and is the son of Mr. and Mrs. 
Thomas C. Garrett, of 394 Rockhill Road, Pittsburgh 16, Penn
sylvania.
Boys night out?  Girls night out? 
Both night out?
Then Grab a Snack T T T or Dinner
... at RITTERS DINER
5324 Baum Blvd. (near Liberty)MU. 2-9318
Wsp Dsk1 @0sasM9 psa 
tsk Nra9 Pba1 ng Un9gsan
The Daytona 500 is one of America's 
toughest stock car events. It measures 
the toughness, stability, over-all per
formance and economy characteristics 
of the cars that take up its challenge 
in a way that compresses years of driving 
punishment into 500 blazing miles. This 
year mechanical failures claimed over 50 
per cent of the cars that entered. That's 
why Tiny Lund's victory in a Ford (with 
four other Fords right behind him) is a 
remarkable testimony to sheer engineer
ing excellence.
Lund attributed his victory in part to 
the missing pit stop." He made one less 
pit stop for fuel than his competitionproving that Ford economy can pay off 
in some fairly unlikely situations!
Economy and the winner of the Day
tona 500 might sound like odd bedfellows 
at first. Yet economy is basic in every car 
we make . . . yes, even the Thunderbird 
is an economy car in its own way. Heres 
what we mean ...
Economy is the measure of service and 
satisfaction the customer receives in rela
tion to the price he pays for it. It does 
not mean, however, austerity . . . you 
have taught us this. Americans want 
and we try hard to give themcars that 
are comfortable to ride in, fun to drive, 
and powerful enough to get out of their 
own way. Not many Americans want to 
settle for basic transportation. You see 
this in our sales figuresmore than half 
of our 1963 sales are coming from the top 
of each model line. Were selling con%% 
vertibles, hardtops, the jazzy cars . . . 
the bucket-seat, high-performance, lux
ury editions are going like hot cakes.
Yet for all the fun that people are 
demanding in their cars, they still are
very conscious of the element of thrift 
of avoiding unnecessary expense. This is 
the kind of economy we build into every 
car from the compact Falcon to the lux
urious Thunderbird.
There's a special economy, for instance, 
in Ford's freedom from service. Every 
car and virtually every wagon can travel 
36,000 miles before it needs a major 
chassis lubrication. Other routine service 
has been reduced, toobecause these 
Fords are simply built betterand of 
better materialsthan ever before.
In its own elegant way, even the 
Thunderbird gives you economy. It will 
travel 100,000 miles or 3 years before you 
have to lubricate the chassis. Thunderbirds have a way of becoming classics 
as a look at their remarkably high resale 
value will quickly tell you. This, too, is 
economy.
Once, long agobefore the arrival of 
the Income Taxa wealthy lady was 
asked to comment on the solid gold 
plumbing of her latest villa at Newport. 
So thrifty, my dear, said the dowager 
... it will never, ever rust.
Economy then, is many things to many 
people. Whatever economy means to you, 
you're pretty sure to find it in a Ford.
Americas liveliest, most care-free cars!DLCU
Dnw0sa  Dnrkwna*  Dsk1  N.ba1@kmrk1
DLC 6B yAICS NWA SyXoLP OF UAHARUIoPA HCLUFGNS
XLNLC GLXHIRy

---------------------------------------------------

SUMMER JOBS
Send now for list of 
1000 summer employers. 
Camps, hotels, U.S., Canada, 
Mexico. $1.00 to Stanley 
Assocs., Box 2144, Fhila. 3, Pa.
CIT Announces 
New Trustees
fcontinued from page 7] 
the New York City Public schools, 
and former superintendent of the 
Pittsburgh Public Schools. Other 
new members elected as alumni 
trustees are Mr. Otmar A. Eichenlaub, a partner in C. M. Eichenlaub Co., of Philadelphia, and 
president-elect of the Carnegie 
Tech Alumni Federation, and Mr. 
Leonard Rosenberg, president of 
Chesapeake Life Insurance Co.
The new life trustees are Mr. 
Lawrence Litchfield, Jr., president 
of the Aluminum Company of 
America and former special term 
trustee, and Mr. John E. Swear
ingen, president of Standard Oil 
Company of Indiana, who had 
been an alumni trustee.
Re-elected as special term 
trustee was Mr. Stephen M. Jenks, 
executive vice president for en
gineering and research, U.S. Steel 
Corporation. Re-elected as alumni 
trustees were General Donald L. 
Putt, president Institute of Aero
nautical Services and United 
Technology Corporation, Menlo 
Park, California, and Dr. George 
A. Roberts, president of Vanadium-Alloys Steel Company.
Colleges Hear 
Tech Physicist
A Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology physicist will serve as a 
visiting lecturer at five Indiana 
colleges May 6 to 8. Under spon
sorships of the American Asso
ciation of Physics Teachers and 
the American Institute of Phycis, 
Dr. Robert T.'Siegel will speak 
at Marian College, Indiana Uni
versity, and Indiana Central Col
lege.
Dr. Siegels visit will be part of 
a nationwide program sponsored 
by the National Science Founda
tion to encourage interest in 
physics.
Nothing else needed but you to complete this picture of filter 
smoking at its flavorful best. Enjoy yourself...light up a Winston.
PURE WHITE, : 
MODERN FILTER !
PLUS :DYPNAC3oPARUUP FRONT
f IMi R. J. Btyi.olcU Tobacco Company, Wist too
i#-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Donna Flynt Chosen Editor
NEW YORK, N.Y. Donna Lee Flynt of the class of 1963 
has been named a Guest Editor of Mademoiselle magazine. 
She is one of twenty winners of the magazines annual Col
lege Board Competition. The winners were selected from 
more than 1,000 undergraduate members of Mademoiselles 
^ College Board at colleges and universities across the country.
As a Guest Editor, she will be4-------------------------------------------------
brought to New York City for the 
month of June to work on August, 
1963, Mademoiselle and to be 
photographed for the issue. She 
will receive round-trip transpor
tation to New York and will be 
paid a salary for the month she 
spends with the magazine.
Each Guest Editor will be as
signed to a staff position best suit- ed to her individual interests and 
aptitudes and will work directly 
with one of the magazines reg
ular editors. As well as helping 
to edit the August College issue, 
these young publishing executives 
will interview well-known artists, 
writers, and designers, and will 
visit advertising agencies, pub
lishing houses, and the fashion 
market. They will also be intro
duced in Mademoiselles College 
fashion show for 2,000 retail executives and will be entertained 
at parties in their honor.
The Guest Editors won their 
appointments on the basis of en
tries submitted during the school 
year that sliowed their aptitude 
for magazine work. These entries 
ranged from reports on campus 
fashions, classroom studies, and 
extra curricular activities, to 
samples of magazine illustration, 
layout, merchandising, and promotional planning.
Other young college women 
who wish to compete for the hon
or of being future Guest Editors 
for Mademoiselle will find infor
mation about next years College 
Board Competition in the June 
and August issues or, they can 
write to the magazine.
Pushers Start
Buggy Races
Buggies at starting line.
[continued from page 5]
that a new dynasty of winners 
emerges.
The preliminary heats will be 
held Friday, Mey 3, and the final 
race Saturday morning  both 
events integral parts of a complete 
Carnival weekend.
Wednesday, April 24, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 13
Penn Hills Sr.
Excels In Math
Miss Cheryl Ann Strohl, winner 
of a four-year college scholarship 
from the Duquesne Brewing 
Company of Pitsburgh, gets the 
news officially from John A. Fri
day, Jr., left, president of the 
brewing firm. Looking on is 
Cheryls father, Leonard Strohl. 
From Philipst>urg, Pa., Miss 
Strohl will attend Carnegie In
stitute of Technology.
Cheryl Strohl accepts scholarship.
Duquesne Brewing Co. Gives 
4 Year Tech Scholarship
R. Dennis Kelly, of Penn Hills 
Senior High School, has placed 
first in the Eight Annual Mathe
matics Scholarship Examination 
conducted by the department of 
mathematics at Carnegie Institute 
of Technology.
Mr. Kelly attained the highest 
score on the examination admini
stered to 178 students from over 
100 schools in the tri-state area. 
He has been awarded a scholar
ship to Carnegie Tech.
Professor Richard A. Moore of 
the department of mathematics at 
Carnegie Tecli was chairman for 
the competition.
At Penn Hills, Mr. Kelly was a 
National Merit Scholarship semi
finalist, a member of the National 
Honor Society and a participant 
in the Allegheny County Excep
tionally Able Youth Examination. 
He is the son of Mr. and Mrs. 
Richard E. Kelly of 12114 Gar
land Drive, Pittsburgh 35, Penn
sylvania.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, April 24, 1963
All claims for Tempests and Consolation Prizes 
must be sent via registered mail, postmarked 
by April 27, 1963 and received by the judges 
no later than April 29, 1963.
N@Mx@eg Eraa@ke
Gary L. Lewis
FT st Sna DknaTJohn V. Erhart
Pskne Gsww@h@J. O. Gallegos, 111
FT st R@p X@fr0sD. B. MacRitchie
FT st Xr0.rhna
N.T.G. Rosania S.
$naene Sgng@James W, Todd 
Onwxnknres FT (Sgntt)Justin C. Burns
SgT osanv@agbk@ FTEdward R. Wassel 
Gwnkesa Gsww@h@
Morris S. Boyer
FT st u@skhrnW.T. Oliver 
Pntn9@gg@ Gsww@h@
G. J. Tamalivich
Esk0@eg@k Hsw9 (Staff)P. S. Holder, Jr.
St. Marys U.Aneil K. Nance
Hskgwna1 Sgng@
IM@kr0nde .sgg@eg a@p 
exskge 0sav@kgrmw@>
IMPORTANT! If you hold any of the 20 winning num
bers, claim your Pontiac Tempest LeMans Convertible 
in accordance with the rules on the reverse of your 
license plate. Girls! You may choose instead a thrill
ing expense-paid 2-week Holiday in Europefor 
two! Plus $500 in cash!
,K GLRSLPINYLR HCYZAS NLL>
Iww ,433 I337477 G46793 o9VV494 o4,V6Q
GV9VV9IB76B3
U,VK4K,I6B9VK9G6V3V77
IV47V GV7K3B 
IV3V43 G7B,47, I9B979V
U3,7,oKK,B3o63VVKKUV4V3GK9V7KK
CONSOLATION PRIZE NUMBERS!
1. B381031 6. A139564 11. 527240 16. A237594 21. B402208
2. A260110 7. 373057 V,T D799966 V7T A127588 ,,T B792561
3. A681037 T A713453 V3T B335471 VT B686223 ,3T B145355
4T B746597 9T C831403 V4T C033935 V9T B521492 ,4T C402919
5. A49651 VBT B985589 VKT C7S7103 ,BT A057655 ,KT B707528
If you hold a Consolation Prize number, you win a 4* 
speed Portable Hi-Fi Stereo Set, The Waltz by RCA 
Victor. Or, you may still win a Tempest! (See official 
claiming rules on reverse of your license plate, and ob
serve claiming dates given above.)
kPh onhe heP on::POF
HaO aePad n: FrsAn:u FahnFHathns: n
6AA NWA HLRNYIG NAXHASN IN yLFC RAICoy HLRNYIG UAIPAC>
Orders For 
The Thistle 
Being Taken
The 1963 Carnegie Thistle is 
presently being sold on campus. 
Student soliciters are selling in 
the dormitories and order en
velopes can be found on various 
bulletin boards over the cam
pus. Everyone Interested in pur
chasing one is urged to do so as 
rapidly as possible both for their 
convenience and that of the staff.
This years book will be in many 
aspects the same as last years 
with the same high quality. A 
$2.00 down payment will hold a 
copy of this excellent chronicle 
for you. For a presentation of 
the year here at Tech, there is 
nothing that can approach Techs 
yearbook. Those who purchased 
them will be able to pick them 
up at the beginning of next year 
in AH or they can be mailed to 
the student at the same time.
End of World 
At Donner Hall
This coming Saturday, April 
27, Vice Presidents Council of 
Mens Dorm Council along with 
the aid of some Morewood girls 
will present the fourth in their 
series of cocktail parties. The 
theme this time will be the end 
of the world. The party will be
gin at 8:30 and end at 12:30 as 
usual. As in the past, the gather
ing will be held in the Donner 
Hall lounge. Music will be sup
plied by the Eboneers, a local 
group well known for their mu
sic. All dorm residents are in
vited from both the mens and 
womens dorms. The dress for 
the evening is coat and tie and 
only couples will be admitted. 
All of the previous parties have 
been well received and this one 
promises to be tfte best of the 
set, so be sure to attend,
Seven Compete For Queen
[continued from page I] 
Greek Sing director KKG. Patti 
Murray, Alpha Epsilon Phi, Sen
ior Business major from Ashta
bula, Ohio, activities include Can
terbury Club, Military Ball Queen, 
1962, Recording Secretary and
Social Chairman, AEPhi. Carole 
Dennison, Chi Omega, Senior 
Painting and Design, from
Reynolds ville, Pa., activities in
clude being known as Woolie Bear, 
driver of the Bearmot>il&.
Bulletin Board
Activities Forms
Activities forms are now avail
able in Dr. Stricks office, Skibo, 
Room 103. These forms must be 
returned no later than Friday, 
April 26. Announcements of these
rewards will be made on CalT 
Day of Spring Carnival.
Executive Council
Elections for the seat of Mis
cellaneous Activities Representa
tive to Executive Council will be 
held Tuesday, April 30 in Room 
33 Skibo.
Teeli Receives 
Subsidy FromJ
American Oil
Tech has been given a $10,000 
educational grant by the Ameri
can Oil Foundation. The grant is 
part of the Foundations expanded 
program to help institutions of 
higher learning meet demands of 
growing enrollments.
American Oil Foundation Pres
ident L.. W. Moore, also president 
of American Oil Company, said 
that Tech may use the grant for 
any educational project which it 
selects, except endowment. The 
grant, he said, was made to Tech 
ne a leading university noted for 
its general excellence, its contri
butions to national life, its sig
nificance in training students from 
the nations of the Free World, 
and the quality of its graduate 
education. ,
The grant is C.I.T.s share of 
$400,000 in unrestricted grants 
made for the first time in 1962 
to 29 outstanding private colleges 
and universities by three founda
tions. The foundations are: Stand
ard Oil Foundation, financed by 
the parent Standard Oil Company 
of Indiana (whose president, John 
Swearingen, is a Tech alumnus 
and trustee); American Oil Foun
dation, Indiana Standardss 
principal marketing and refining 
affiliate; and Pan-American Pe
troleum Foundation, financed by 
Pan-American Petroleum Corpor
ation.

---------------------------------------------------

Titans Defeat 
Tech in Tennis
A gray, overcast day seemed to 
foretell Carnegie Techs fortunes 
as Westminister rolled to an easy
7-2 victory on the Tartan tennis 
court. Tech just could not seem
get started after the Easter 
layoff while Westminister had 
just come off a tour.
Curt Chandler and Jack Hershey captured Techs only two 
singles victories by scores of 6-2,
8-6, and 1-6, 6-3, 6-2, respec
tively. Westminister swept all 
three doubles matches to com
plete their victory over Tech.
On Saturday, Tech avenged last 
years defeat at the hands of 
W & J, by whipping the Prexies 
6-3. Curt Chandler, Bill Jones, 
John Jackson, and Jack Hershey 
won their singles matches while 
Chandler, Jones, Hershey, and 
Jackson went onto win their 
doubles matches.
^ Jack Hershey and Curt Chand
ler are both undefeated in singles 
competition after three matches. 
Techs record now stands at 2-1 
for the season.
Basketball All-Stars 
Mamed; Pokryfka MVP
Rich Pokryfka, fine rebounder, scorer, and playmaker of 
the Finks, has been named Most-Valuable Player for the 
1963 Intramural Basketball season. Rich led the Finks, who 
werent even seeded in the pre-season ratings, all the way to 
the I.M. finals against the Grad Eagles. He scored 41 points in 
three tournament games.
Rich is joined on the All-Star team by Ron DaPrano and
Photo by Aron Collons
IM All-Stars: Front row  Steve Foels, ATO; Bob Fox, Grods. 
Rear  Rich Pokryfka, Finks; Ron DaPrano, Grads; John 
Pavlik. DU.
g]MM odEs Wbr 
* nWGW mirIiMM
Seven was a lucky number for 
the Faculty Bull Dogs as they 
beat the Grad Eagles 3 to 1 to 
win the intramural handball 
championship for the seventh 
consecutive year. The Bull Dogs 
team of Mel Cratsly, Roy Haynes, 
Gene Boyer, John Trezise, and 
Earl Bidy, all of the Physical 
Education Department, needed 
only to play four of the usual 
five games to take first place. 
The Grad Eagles A squad 
finished second while the Grad 
Eagle B still have to play Delta 
Tau Delta to decide third place.
Bobby Fox of the Grad Eagles, 
Steve Foels of ATO, and John 
Pavlik of Delta Upsilon.
It was Ron Dapranos 28 points 
that paced the Grad Eagles to 
their victory over the Finks in the 
championship game. His three 
| game total was 58 points. Fox 
contributed 15 points as well as 
some fine playmaking in this final 
game.
Little Steve Foels of ATO near
ly led his team to an upset of 
the Grads in the quarter final 
round. This fine playmaker and 
shooter scored 21 points although 
his team lost to the Grads in the 
final quarter of play.
John Pavlik, the intramural 
foul shooting champion, is prob
ably the best all round shooter on 
the squad. He was a good bet to 
score any time he got the ball 
within twenty feet of the basket.
Pavlik and Foels are both Junors and Rich Pokryfka is only a 
Sophomore, so it seems a good bet
that next years all-star team will 
be much the same team that it is 
this year.
Save
Your
Pennies
For
UMOC
Rich Pokryfka, 1963's most 
valuable IM basketball player.
S. GREEN
All Watches Electronically Timed
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRY REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MU. 1-6104
SPECIAL
Tech Sweatshirts ~ reg. $2.95
RANEGIEUM
with this iI
Pitt CampusSchenley Dormitories 
3939 Forbes Ave., Pittsburgh 13MU. 3-6757
HmwrattQ
Wednesday, April *4, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Pa*e 15
gvva^vFlanGFv?
N.re CnMmw@k IM@kr0na 44B Gsav@kgrmw@ 0sM@e 
@cbrxx@1 prg. wsge st raer1@ kssM 9@g prg. 0sMxn0g 
sbger1@ 1rM@aersae 9sb 0na trg ra gra9 xnkrah 
exn0@eT Sbkxkrerah x@ktskMna0@ gssT
Ygde n hss13wssrah pn9 gs h@g npn9 tksM rg nwwT 
ob0@g S@nge na1 Npra3Sgr0 Dwssk S.rtg nk@ exskg9 
wsp30seg sxgrsaeT Hsp@k3sx@kng@1 gsx re egna1nk1T
CnMmw@k xkr0@e egnkg k@nw wsp na1 9sb psa'g hs 
mnk@tssg gs @@x sa@ kbaarahT I CnMmw@k IM@kr0na 
4VB prg. sv@k1krv@ wshh@1 ,TV9 MTxThT ra g.@ 
d63 Hbk@ Lrw A0sasM9 H@ktskMna0@ NkrnweT Ia1 
CnMmw@ke nk@ Msk@ e@kvr0@3tk@@ g.na @v@k m@tsk@T 
CnMmw@k cbnwrg9 @@xe rg sa g.@ ksn1 asg ra g.@ e.sxT
RAMBLER63
Winner of Motor Trend Magazine Award:
CAR OF THE YEAR"
VITALIS KEEPS YOUR HAIR NEAT ALL DAY WITHOUT GREASE!
GuAicAsc IbsYdtAuD sbrYA cpA YdN! wbciMbs bcp w-7* cpA 
EuAisAMAss EuddNbrE IbsYdtAuDW KAALs Dd]u pibu rAic iMM IiD 
bcpd]c EuAisAirI LuAtArcs IuDrAss* cddW auD wbciMbs cdIiDW
Try this one!
ysb 0nww g.@ xwn9 prg. Npra3Sgr0 Dwssk S.rtg .ne Yaegnag Lv@kgn@T

---------------------------------------------------

KENTUCKY CLUB 
MIXTURE
SM@wwe es hss1 m@0nbe@ rg gneg@e es hss1T
LONDON DOCKI 0ssw3mbkarah 
Aahwre. g9x@ gsmn00s 1regra0grv@w9 nksMngr0T
WHITEHALL MIXTURE
Sbx@kmw9 Mrw1 na1 nksMngr0 a@v@k mbkae .sgT
DONNIFORDI eMssg. M@wwsp 0ssw mbkarah Mrfgbk@ prg. 
ebmgw@gneg@ na1 nksMnT
BRUSH CREEKFarcb@w9 tbww ms1r@1 na1 kr0. gnegrah 9@g xw@nerahw9 Mrw1T
GREENBRIER
X@ag.sw 0ssw na1 Mrw1 prg. 
k@nw gsmn00s gneg@T
Look what you get6 different, wonderful pipe tobaccos 
in one handy sample package! What easier way is there 
to become a tobacco connoisseur? You get only the 
finest premium blends you can buy. No ordinary pipe 
tobaccos here! Each blend is chosen for mild taste and 
pleasing aroma. Each blend has its own special some
thing to give you a thoroughly satisfying smoke. 
Enjoy each one by itself or experiment! Mix different 
blends anyway you like for an exciting change of pace!
SAVE MONEY! 
Special Get Acquainted Offer!
CUSTOM PACK REGULAR PRICE $249 
NOW ONLY $198Hurry! Offer good only while supply lasts!
Photo by Bill Jackson
Out at first on a close one.Hach connects against the Betas.
H.sgs m9 orww Jn0esa
ebENi H] ai,As nWGW fbTMA :piNLbdrspbL
Sigma Nu pooled five fine per< Pierce led the Betas and all other I an exceptional 46 standing. Last
 shooters with a score st V3B  years champions, H$I gss 
with a 42 pronu, 42 kneeling, and I third place with a 547 score.formances by Mike Greenawalt, 
Myron Stitt, Com Jones, Dave 
Shomper, and Tom Douglas to 
win the intramural rifle cham
pionship with a score of 618. 
Greenawalt shot a 128, Stitt and 
Jones 127s, Shomper a 119, and 
Douglass a 117. BTP took second 
place with a 576 score. Kieth
TONY'S
SPECIALIZING IN ALL KINDS OF HAIRCUTS
NO WAITING EXPERT BARBERS
125 Bouauet St. (Near Corner Forbes and Bouquet)
PRINTS and BOOKS-"ON SALE' 
C.I.T. BOOK STORE
BEGINNING
WEDNESDAY
APRIL 24th
r*ge 1  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, April 84, IMS
Go to any tobacconist or druggist near the campus
THIS IS THE FAMOUSCustom Pack!
Six choice pipe tobaccos
EASY WAY TO FIND 
A NEW FAVORITE!
