^100^
V
Volume 99, Issue 19www.thetartan.org28 February 2005Board approves raising undergraduate tuition
by Isabel Gardocki
Staffwriter
According to the College 
Board website, only about five 
percent of all students attend 
colleges where tuition and fees 
total $24,000 or higher per year. 
Carnegie Mellon University stu
dents will definitely be in this top 
percent in the fall of 2005, par
tially owing to the recently an
nounced 3.26 percent increase 
in undergraduate tuition.
The Board of Trustees has ap
proved the move; the new cost of 
undergraduate tuition will now 
be $31,650.
Room costs will also in
crease to $5187, an additional 
4.49 percent, and board costs 
will rise four percent to $3696. 
The overall cost to attend 
Carnegie Mellon including tu
ition, room, board and fees will 
be $40,927 for students entering 
in fall of 2005.
Students who entered 
Carnegie Mellon prior to fall 
2003 will be billed $31,185, also 
reflecting the 3.26 percent in
crease. These students entered 
Carnegie Mellon under a tiered 
tuition scale.
Its ridiculous that tuition is 
going up faster than the inflation 
of the economy, said sophomore 
Coralie Lannelongue, a sopho
more mechanical engineering 
major. It discourages good students that dont have the finan
cial resources from applying.
However, Carnegie Mellon 
Vice President for Enrollment 
William Elliott pointed out that 
applications for admission to 
Carnegie Mellon continue to 
set records. As of February 1, 
Carnegie Mellon had received 
15,436 applications for the 1360 
spots available in the 2005 firstyear class, a 15 percent increase 
from last year.
We offer the best possible 
learning environment for our 
students. The student experi
ence here extends beyond the 
classroom into all aspects of 
student life, said Jared Cohon, 
president of Carnegie Mellon, in 
an official e-mail.
Part of the new influx of 
money will go towards support
ing the expansion of undergrad
uate education initiatives and 
to the improvement of teaching 
and student facilities. Yet, some 
students will still feel the pinch.
Students have suggested vari
ous methods of alleviating fi
nancial stress. We need some 
slot machines on campus, joked 
Brian Cray, a music masters stu
dent, and free drinks like you get 
in Vegas. First year music major 
Aubrey OConnor said, My par
ents are making me get a higherpaying summer job because this 
school is so expensive.
See TUITION, page A3
Former Black Panther member speaks on revolution
Ashanti Alston speaks to students and community members last Thursday in 
McConomy Auditorium. He originally joined the Black Panthers in his hometown 
of Plainfield, N.J., and later became interested in the Zapatista movement.
by Marshall Roy
Staffwriter
On Thursday, Carnegie Mellon 
University hosted a self-proclaimed anarchist and revolution
ary in McConomy Auditorium. 
Ashanti Alston, a former member 
of the Black Panther Party for 
Self Defense and an author of the 
magazine Anarchist Panther, re
counted his days working in the 
Black Panther Party, his experi
ences supporting the Zapatista 
rebellion in Chiapas, Mexico, and 
his views on the nature of oppres
sion and rebellion.
Whatever in my life I can pass 
on as a storyteller to you, and 
you find some benefit in it, then 
right on to that, began Alston. 
He described how, as a teenager, 
he joined the Black Panther Party 
and began working to improve 
his community of Plainfield, New 
Jersey. The cry for black power 
captured our imagination, be
cause it said that we could con
trol our own, he said. However, 
he emphasized that seizing that 
power didnt necessarily mean 
the gun. It meant that if nothing 
else worked.
Alston stressed that what made 
the Black Panthers successful in 
fighting back against oppression 
was their unity. Its about specific 
organizing for the black commu
nity so that we can bring about 
our own destiny  our political, 
social, and cultural destiny.
However, Alston explained that 
his work with the Black Panthers
also taught him to stand up for all 
oppressed people. He began read
ing feminism, and considers the 
contemporary prejudice against 
homosexuals analogous to racism. 
His expanding understanding of 
injustice and rebellion sparked his 
interest in the Zapatista revolt in 
Chiapas, Mexico.
He described how the 
Zapatistas, an army comprised of 
indigenous races of Mexico, had 
been oppressed by racism, much 
like the black population of the 
United States. Because of corrupt 
local governments and the annul
ment of a key article of the Mexi
can constitution, large landhold
ers were permitted to privatize 
the previously communal land 
of the Zapatistas. On January 2, 
1994, the Zapatistas staged a re
bellion which drew international 
attention by demanding, among 
other things, equal rights, inde
pendence, and the restoration of 
their autonomous municipalities. 
Alston traveled to Chiapas in 1997 
and again in 1999 to assist in the 
Zapatista struggle. He is a mem
ber of Estacion Libre, a Zapatista 
support group for people of color.
They base their revolution on 
dignity, he said. Not classes, 
not proletariat, but dignity: what 
makes a person feel dignified in 
life, and what takes that dignity 
away. Thats their organization 
strategy.
The lecture was not attended 
only by CMU students. Much of 
the crowd consisted of members of
See ALSTON, page A3
John Herrington/Photo Staff
Carnegie Mellon hosts first annual Model UN Conference
The Carnegie Mellon Model United Nations Conference (CMMUNC) allowed guests from high schools in the area to participate in mock committees such 
as the Security Council. Other groups included the Committee for Disarmament and International Security (DISEC), the Social, Humanitarian and Cultural 
Committee (SOCHUM), the Special, Political, and Decolonization Committee (SPECPOL), and the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC).APhiO hosts program for local Scouts to earn badges
by Alexandra Kilduff
News Editor
Last Saturday saw the arrival 
of 463 Boy Scouts from the Pitts
burgh area onto Carnegie Mellons campus. The Scouts came 
to attend Merit Badge University 
(MBU), a program run by ser
vice fraternity Alpha Phi Omega. 
At Merit Badge University, the 
members of local troops had the 
opportunity to take classes and 
earn badges in everything from 
architecture to railroading.
Troops from all over the 
Greater Pittsburgh Council, and 
some from beyond, were pres
ent, said Katherine Strausser, a 
sophomore in mechanical engi
neering and Alpha Phi Omegas 
Merit Badge University Chair 
for 2005. We had 52 troops 
from the districts [of] Cones
toga, Glacier Ridge, Fort Pitt, Tecumsa, Chief Keondashawa, Bea
ver Valley, Steel City, Japeechen, 
Bushy Run, Chartiers and 
Mingo Trails. The event was a 
huge success.
According to Strausser, each 
Scout chose one or two classes 
and then worked toward com
pleting badges in those fields. On 
March 19, the Scouts will return 
to fully earn their badges. Classes 
in disciplines such as architec
ture, art, computers, and music 
were available, as well as brief 
lessons in atomic energy, avia
tion, citizenship of the world, 
law, and landscape architecture.
A few highlights from some 
of the badges included a live chat 
with a pilot from San Antonio, 
Texas, during the Aviation badge, 
and the Space Exploration badge 
[class] made and launched model 
rockets. The Scouts in Photogra
phy got to see how pictures were 
developed in the darkroom here
on campus, said Strausser. The 
Scouts got to experience a lot 
of hands-on activities while at 
Carnegie Mellon that often just 
arent possible within their own 
troops or at a summer camp. 
It is because we believe that 
these experiences are impor
tant and beneficial to the Scouts 
that Alpha Phi Omega puts a 
lot of time and effort into plan
ning this day ... and this week
end, it appeared that our hard 
work paid off.
Alpha Phi Omega offers two 
Scouting programs during the 
year. In November 2004, they 
hosted their eighth annual Girl 
Scout College and Interest Proj
ect (SCIP) Day. The University 
chapter of Alpha Phi Omega has 
been active since 1929 and be
came a coed fraternity in 1972. Its 
primary tenet is service, and on 
Saturday, over 30 brothers and 
pledges participated in MBU.
Elizabeth Buckser, a junior 
in the School of Drama and the 
public relations contact for Alpha 
Phi Omega, thanked the efforts 
of student volunteers. CMU is 
filled with wonderful students 
who are positive role models. By 
participating in MBU, we allow 
students from all over Pittsburgh 
to see how CMU students act 
and relate to others. Its a great 
chance for CMU to affect Pitts
burgh, and for Pittsburgh to af
fect CMU.
She added, [This year] there 
were enough people to help with 
things, and the boys involved 
had a chance to be really en
gaged with everything they did. 
I always love to sit in the hall
way of Doherty, and watch the 
boys and parents walk by, com
menting about what a great day 
theyve had, or how much fun 
they are having. It really makes it 
all worthwhile.
Womens Tennis
Women start season with vic
tory over Case Western.
Sports, A12
National Medal
SEI Fellow Watts Humphrey 
to receive Presidential honor.
SciTech, A5
Jail to the FBI
Frank Abagnale Jr. tells of his 
life from-con to consultant.
Pillbox, 6
Carnegie Mlions student 
newspaper since 1906.THE TARTAN
Panel discusses diversity with sparse audience
by Louisa Kinoshi
Staffwriter
If you had the power to exclude 
me from this university 40 years 
ago because of the color of my 
skin, then you do have the power 
to include me now, said an audi
ence member as he challenged 
the panel at last weeks diversity 
discussion. The discussion, titled 
The Benefits of Diversity in Edu
cation, was held last Thursday as 
a part of the Black History Month 
program and the University Lec
ture Series. It was sponsored by 
Student Affairs and moderated 
by Emily Half, Coordinator of Stu
dent Development, and panelists 
included Bill Elliott, Vice Presi
dent of Enrollment, Professor Joe 
Trotter, head of the Department of 
History, and Jennifer Church, As
sociate Dean of Student Affairs.
The discussion focused on what 
Carnegie Mellon does through the 
admission process to guarantee 
diversity, the benefits of diversity
in education both structurally and 
programmatically, and what goes 
on at Carnegie Mellon to promote 
diversity both curricularly and 
meta-curricularly.
Professor Joe Trotter began the 
lecture by summarizing the find
ings of a committee under the 
direction of Associate Provost for 
Education Susan Ambrose, that 
analyzed diversity at school. The 
committee produced a text, The 
Benefits of Diversity at Carnegie 
Mellon. The text, prompted by 
the results of the University of 
Michigan affirmative action court 
decision, was released last spring. 
The University had gotten inqui
ries from white parents. People 
felt affirmative action cut away 
opportunity from the majority 
population, said Trotter.
The text lists the benefits of 
diversity to both students and the 
university. According to the com
mittees findings, diversity broad
ens the education and experiences 
of students and prepares students
See DIVERSITY, page A3
Bill Elliott, Joe Trotter, Jennifer Church, and Emily Half discuss the benefits of 
diversity before a sparse audience in the Connan Room last Thursday.
. 1

---------------------------------------------------

A2_THE TARTAN  FEBRUARY 28. 2005
Incident
Suspicious Vehicle
18 February 2005 at 
23:46
A suspicious vehicle was 
reported at the Robotics 
Engineering Consortium, 
stopping other vehicles. A 
woman who was thought to 
be the owner of the vehicle 
was questioned by police 
and said that she was stop
ping people to see if they 
had seen her glasses, which 
she believed to have lost in 
the area.
Criminal Attempt
21 February 2005 at 
00:30
A complainant in Hunt 
Library reported that he 
may have caught another 
man stealing his belong
ings and heading towards 
-Baker Hall with them. The 
complainants belongings 
had been left unattended in 
the library for an unknown 
amount of time. The com
plainant pursued the man 
and caught him, but the 
man told him he wasnt car
rying anything stolen. The 
complainant also believed 
there may have been a look
out in the library, but he did 
not know where the second 
suspect went.
Assist Outside Agency
21 February 2005 at 
02:39
Carnegie Mellon Police 
Were informed that shots 
had been fired in Oakland 
near Fifth Avenue and 
Bouquet Street, and that 
the assailant was head
ing up Forbes Avenue in a 
gold-colored Malibu. The 
car was stopped and the 
assailant apprehended by 
Carnegie Mellon, University 
of Pittsburgh, and city 
police near the intersec
tion of Forbes Ave. and 
'Morewood Ave.
Theft
22 February 2005 at 
14:59
A student reported spot
ting a black man wearing a 
dark hat, glasses, and military-style pants removing a 
bike wheel from a bicycle 
between West Wing and 
the University Center. The 
man was then seen walking 
towards Margaret Morrison, 
but was not apprehended.
Theft
23 February 2005 at 
12:45
A librarian reported see
ing a very tall white male 
wearing a down jacket 
and cap in the library. The 
librarian recognized the 
man as having been asked 
to leave the library on pre
vious occasions after steal
ing books. This time a book 
was found in his backpack. 
According to police, the 
thief had altered the books 
to prevent them from being 
identified as CMU property. 
The suspect was arrested.
Disorderly Conduct
23 February 2005 at
18:44
Two South Asian men 
in their 20s were report
ed arguing loudly outside 
Wean Hall. At the time of 
the call, the altercation was 
escalating.
Suspicious Person
24 February 2005 at
01:16
Residents reported a welldressed black male in his 
late 20s in the basement gym 
area of Fairfax Apartments. 
The man was later seen exit
ing the womens restroom. 
At the time of the call, the 
resident reported that the 
man had left the building.
Compiled by 
Alexandra Kilduff
Corrections
Clarifications
In last weeks issue of 
The Tartan, the caption 
accompanying the fea
ture photo Police arrest 
suspect at 5000 Forbes 
Ave. after shots fired, a 
CMU officer was incor
rectly identified as James 
Togyer. The officer was 
actually Chad Brogley.
If you would like 
to notify the Tartan 
about a correction or 
clarification, e-mail 
ombudsman@thetartan. 
org.
Weather
TUESDAY 
Hi 32 
Lo 19
Kl5
WEDNESDAY 
Hi 22 
Lo 19
SATURDAY 
Hi 29 
Lo 28
Marcus Gho/Photo Staff
Students for Bill Peduto
Student Body President Erik Michaels-Ober speaks with Pittsburgh mayoral candidate Bill Peduto during a tabling ses
sion in the University Center on Friday. Peduto was attempting to gain students signatures on a petition that would 
allow him to run for mayor. Student Senate recognized Students for Peduto as a campus organization on February 10.
StatisticallySpeaking
The Tartan wishes you a safe and fun spring break. Keep these statistics in 
mind on your time off.
In 2001, number of dollars spent on alcohol 
advertising in the media:1.57 billion
Average number of calories consumed solely 
from alcoholic beverages during spring break:9,960
Annual number of American citizens arrested 
abroad during spring break:2,500
Percentage of men and women who, after more 
than four drinks, engage in unprotected sex :52.3
Average number of drinks a male consumes 
during spring break:18
Average number of drinks a female consumes 
during spring break:10
Compiled by
Sources: www.alcoholpolicysolutions.net,www.harbus.org/news,www.tf.org Jackie BrookPresidential perspectives: Run for student government this year
Erik Michaels-Ober
This week, Mark Roboff was appoint
ed to chair the Student Government 
Elections Board, which is responsible 
for impartially administering Student 
Government elections and referenda. 
Mark is a former president of the Student 
Dormitory Council and is currently the 
resident assistant for Forbes House. I am 
very confident in his ability to run the 
election smoothly.
The Elections Boards first act was to
set the date of the election. It will be held 
on April 4 and 5. For those who have 
never voted in a Student Government 
election, elections occur over a 48-hour 
period and voting can be done online at 
elections, andrew. cmu.edu.
All 37 seats in the undergradu
ate Student Senate will be open for 
one-year terms. If you are an under
graduate who is interested in running 
for one of these seats, simply pick up 
a petition in person at the University 
Center Information Desk or online at 
www.stusen.org/id/petition.pdf. For 
your name to appear on the ballot, you 
need to gather at least 25 signatures from
students in your college and then submit 
the petition to the Student Senate mail
box, University Center Box 46, by 5 pm 
on March 25.
If you are interested in running for 
Student Body President or Student Body 
Vice President for Finance, you must 
gather 100 signatures from activities feepaying students and submit them by 5 pm 
on March 21.
Petitions are being accepted now. When 
gathering signatures, it is a good idea 
to get more than the minimum number 
required to account for potentially illeg
ible or invalid signatures.
Student government is one of the most
effective ways to make a positive impact 
on your campus. These positions provide 
opportunities to improve campus life.
Last spring, we had the highest voter 
turnout ever in a student government 
election, with over 2,500 ballots cast. 
This year, I would like to see that record 
broken. I encourage you to run; but even 
if you are not interested in running, 
please vote and encourage your friends 
to do so as well.
Please do not hesitate to send e-mail to 
pres@cmu.edu if you have any questions 
or comments about running for student 
government.
Executive
Privilege
Bradford L. Yankiver
The line from Don Hertzfeldts 
Rejected kept running through my 
head. Im a consumer whore! And 
how! I was sitting on a U.S. Airways 
flight from San Francisco to Pitts
burgh, feeling as though Id been eco
nomically abused.
I am not one to complain about the 
inconveniences of traveling. Once, on 
a nine-hour bus trip from central Ne
pal to the Indian border, I was seated 
with five other travelers on a bench in 
the back of the bus. The seat in front 
of me was about four inches too close 
for my legs to fit. But I found the ride 
to be relatively enjoyable  once my 
lower body went numb. I was com
fortable sleeping in a grimy corner 
of the Nairobi airport, where I once 
spent an eight-hour layover breaking 
up the seventeen hours of flight time 
between Boston and Dar es Salaam, 
Tanzania. That was a good nap. The 
point is, Im generally very tolerant of 
travel nuisances. But these days, an 
unlikely culprit compels me to break 
my silence: domestic air travel.
It is surprising, even to me, that my 
feathers are ruffled by domestic air 
carriers. What irks me about flying 
in the U.S. today is that it no longer 
feels like travel. Today, flying is indis
tinguishable from shopping.
Its nice at first. I wasnt complain
ing as I sat in Brookstone, in the 
leather massage chair, checking my email via Pittsburgh International Air
ports free wireless network. But its 
strange to be on the moving walkway 
and cruise past Brooks Brothers and 
Mont Blanc and see that everyones 
impatient on the ground. Ogling 
$1000 fountain pens keeps me out of 
trouble and out of the way of those 
handicapped-transportation vehicles 
that whip around the corners of the 
airport.
The real irritation is on the plane. 
When I was younger, airplane 
meant adventure. The stale air, the 
droning of the engines, and the earpopping pressure changes were sig
nals that I was on the way to some 
new and exciting destination. Now, 
some corporate VIP has sneaked the 
everyday world through security and 
onto the plane.
Things have changed. If I want an 
in-flight meal, the going rate is $7 for 
a snazzy-sounding turkey club sand
wich with lettuce, tomatoes, onions, 
mayonnaise, or mustard. In reality, 
the sandwich they give is on par with 
the pre-made sandwiches Entropy 
sells out of the fridge.
When Im done choking down a 
crust of bread, maybe the crew will 
start the in-flight movie. Ill relax, 
recline, and watch the movie. But if 
I want to listen to it, Ive got to shell 
out another $5 for the special head-' 
phones. Standard headphones wont 
always fit in the jacks. More than 
likely the film is Police Academy 7: 
Mission to Moscow and Id pay $5 not 
to hear it.
But worst of all, hidden among 
the safety instructions and barf 
bags is the devil himself: SkyMall. 
For those of you who are unfamil
iar with this beast, SkyMall is 200 
glossy pages of absolutely useless but 
oh-so-desirable products. Placed in 
nearly three quarters of all domes
tic airlines, SkyMall sells everything 
from anti-snoring gimmicks to min
iature vintage style soda dispensers. 
Best of all, SkyMall is owned by 
Gemstar-TV Guide International 
Inc., which is owned in part by Ru
pert Murdochs News Corp. Reading 
SkyMall is a bitter reminder of whats 
below: Wal-Mart and a strip mall, just 
like everywhere else in the country.
In the end, economics tells me that 
excluding the food and movie fees 
from the ticket price is more efficient 
than including them, but a tradi
tional airplane meal is something Ill 
miss. As for SkyMall, it obliterates 
any sense of adventure. If I can buy 
the E-Pen Hair Removal System, re
tailing at $69.95 plus shipping and 
handling, I will never feel like Im 
going anywhere worth visiting.
Thetr ui 
su,ar,al
News.............................................Ai
Science & Technology.........A5
forum........................................A8
InThisIssue
Pillbox
Comics.
Location proteomics
Science & Technology, A5
Farewell to transit
Forum, A10
Freedom of the press
Forum, A9
Persons Op
Forum, A9
Roller hockey jamboree
Sports, All
Athletes of the week
Sports, All
Drama show repertory
Pillbox, 6
SALSA show sizzles
Pillbox, 7
10
How Things Work: Vodka
Science & Technology, A5
Reimagining cartoon classics
Forum, A8
Western beauty standards
Pillbox, 8-9
Calendar15

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  FEBRUARY 28, 2005
$Exee OFF LIFT TICKET
Present your valid College Student ID 
at the Ticket Window and receive 
$5.00 off one day or twilight session 
lift ticket.
Valid until the end of the 2005 ski season.
- Not valid with any other discounts or offers.
Ski
MISI fimiF
886-547-3388 
www.thespringsatfaurelmountain.conn
how can you 
keen a kid oft drugs?
The truth is, a little of your time can make a lifetime of 
difference. Because kids with something to do are less 
likely to do drugs. You can help. For more information on 
drug prevention programs in your community, call or visit:
1877 KIDS 313 
www.youcanhelpkids.org
Alston stresses boldness in ending oppression
ALSTON, from A1
the Pittsburgh community. 
Grace Keller, a local resident, 
said, I was disappointed at the 
turnout to this compared to 
the Shabazz speech. Im disap
pointed to see people gravitate 
toward controversy and away
all around the world people 
are improving their lives on 
their own.
As a historical figure, Papasian continued, Ashanti was 
able to discuss radical veins of 
the civil rights movement in the 
first person. You cant get that 
out of a textbook.
You have to take a risk. Crazy people are the 
ones who make revolutions. Nothing changes 
when you let the fear control you.
 Ashanti Alston, former Black Panther
Panel discusses benefits of diversity on campus
from construction.
Daniel Papasian, a junior 
political science major, orga
nized Alstons visit. I think 
Ashantis message, fundamen
tally, is that people need to go 
out and challenge things they 
see as oppression in their com
munities and in their lives, 
stated Papasian in an e-mail. 
Whether fighting against 
your internal issues such as 
sexism or homophobia or ex
ternal forces like a military,
The crux of Alstons candid, 
90-minute lecture was the im
portance of boldness in fight
ing oppression. You have to be 
daring to bring about change, 
he said. You have to take a 
risk. Crazy people are the ones 
who make revolutions. Noth
ing changes when you let the 
fear control you.... Revolution is 
about getting out of your com
fort zone.... Its not about chang
ing the world; its about creating 
a new world.Tuition to increase by 
3.26 percent next fall
Last Thursdays panel The Benefits of Diversity in
Eno Thereska/Photo Staff 
promotes diversity in admission and campus events.
DIVERSITY, from A1
better for the demands of life 
and the workplace. Socially, it 
promotes leadership, which en
hances the future prospects of 
students who enroll here of be
coming leaders in their fields and 
society.
Diversity prepares people to 
live and serve, to participate in 
communities that are broad and 
those that are local, said Trotter. 
One of the benefits of diversity is 
that it increases the competitive 
edge of the university. Diver
sity makes CMU a more inclusive 
place and provides opportunities 
that cross all kinds of boundar
ies which enhances the influence 
of the University on a broader 
scale, he said.
According to the panelists, 
diversity is not a new concept.
Historically America has had to 
make itself into a more inclusive 
place, said Trotter. In the 1930s, 
CMU excluded Jewish students. 
African American students were 
similarly excluded from the uni
versity until the 1960s. The 1970s 
sparked a new interest in women, 
and in the 1980s, international 
students, Asian American and La
tino students started coming into 
the university.
Dealing with this cultural di
versity is as important in the class
room as the activities they engage 
with outside the classroom, said 
Trotter.
Bill Elliott was in agreement 
with Trotter. He stated that Di
versity is important in the admis
sions business.... Carnegie Mellon 
has a race-blind admissions op
eration. He added, however, that 
experiences are [also] important
in selecting a class. Elliott spoke 
about how prior to the Michigan 
case CMU had race-based finan
cial aid awards and separate racebased programs such as CMAP. 
CMAP has changed its strategy, 
not its purpose, said Elliott, 
from a race-exclusive program 
to a race-inclusive program with 
emphasis on underrepresented 
minority populations at CMU.
Admissions still implements a 
number of programs to attract mi
nority students such as the Diver
sity Circle, Celebration of Diver
sity, and the Summer Academy of 
Math and Sciences.
Jennifer Church spoke about 
Student Affairs role in foster
ing opportunities for diversity on 
campus. Our goal is to comple
ment the curricular experience, 
said Church. We build on a lot of 
successes [that] student organiza
tions have had and try to expose 
students to different ideas, cul
tures, et cetera. Student Affairs 
has implemented several diver
sity-enhancing programs such as 
Black History Month, Hispanic 
Heritage Month, GLBT Month, 
and the Mosaic Conference.
Students at the lecture ex
pressed interest in plans of in
fusing diversity into the curricu
lum. I think the more curricular 
points were not addressed. That 
is something we want to look at, 
probably at another lecture, said 
Emily Half, who moderated the 
lecture.
Grisel Perez, a junior chemis
try major, agreed. The audience 
was not really engaged. There 
wasnt enough people, there were 
no action items or proposed solu
tions. These meetings need to be 
more action-based.
a plateau if our economy contin
ues to grow, and if the cost of liv
ing continues to increase. Over
all, Elliott considers the cost of a 
college education a good invest
ment.
According to U.S. Census 
Bureau statistics, people with 
a bachelors degree earn over 
70 percent more, on average, 
than those with only a high 
school diploma. Over a lifetime, 
the gap in earning potential be
tween an individual with a high 
school diploma and an individ
ual with a BA (or higher) is more 
than $1 million.
Senior art major Gregory 
Kwon expressed the relief of the 
graduating class. Im graduat
ing, so it doesnt affect me, he 
said.
TUITION, from A1
The College Board alleges 
that about 60 percent of all col
lege students receive grant aid, 
with an average of $9400 per 
student at private four-year col
leges. This year, a record $122 
billion in financial aid is avail
able to students and their fami
lies, an increase of 11 percent 
over last year.
Financial aid will always 
increase relative to the tuition 
costs. The university will make 
price adjustments to the finan
cial aid packages, said Elliott. 
However, he doesnt see a cap 
on the rising of tuition overall. 
Some of us thought that tuition 
wouldnt go over $30,000; then 
it did. He added, I dont expect
Shadyside
FI M I I Ilexible Leases
Live in Pittsburgh's best neighborhood in the 
area's only flexible leased building. Rent by the 
school year and have the freedom to go home 
in the summer without being locked into a 
lease. Rent either furnished or unfurnished. 
One half block from Walnut Street's shops and
restaurants.
I Bedroom l iifiirnislied$ T59*
Includes all utilities plus free High Speed Internet
1 Bedroom Furnished$1295**
Includes everything, just bring a toothbrush
412-441-4445
fifthaYesuites.com
* Minimum length of lease 9 months (two semesters)
** 3 month minimum stay required to qualify for this rate.
24 hour service. Resident Manager. Parking Available.

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie Institute of Technology 
Fall 2004 Deans List
Seniors:Small, EvanMEGMpagazehe, JeremiahMEGNelson, PeterECESmith, BenjaminMEGMurawski, BryanECENigra, MichaelCHE
Abu Talib, MohamadMEGSmith, MeghanCEENgo, AaronCHENjoroge, JenniferCHE
Adler, NancyMEGSofman, BorisECENocker, JanCHEOrzalli, IanMEG
Alford, TannaMEGSpare, AllisonCEENorman, MichaelMEGPalermo, FrankECE
Allison, RickECESperduto, LauraCEEPadell, EliMEGParasuraman, KarthikECE
Andreaco, AmberMSEStowell, ZacharyMEGPanagariya, AjayECEPatel, SaagarECE
Atwood, ChristopherMEGSun, JianjianECEPatel, JayECEPaulk, TylerECE
Back, StevenCHETan, GregoryECEPatel, RajitMEGPolack, JeffreyMEG
Battaglino, PeterECEThomas, ChrisECEPatel, ReemaCHEPreysman, MichaelECE
Beigelmacher, StevenECEToh, MinghongECEPatil, NishantECEQuintero, RubenECE
Benjavitvilai, Chanikarn MEGTompkins, FrankECEPawashe, ChytraMEGRogers, JamesMSE
Beutler, PeterMEGTong, CalvinMEGPimentel, MarkECERogman, RaphaelMEG
Blackmore, BarbaraCEETrapp, MarkMEGPrack, MarkMEGSemo Scharfman, Laura Rose MEG
Boles, StevenMSETsai, OliviaECERollinson, DavidMEGShah, AbhishekECE
Borrell, AdamMEGTsao, AmyECERussell, RobertCHEShelgikar, NachiketECE
Boujarwah, FatimaECETse, GerardECEScocozzo, NicholasCHESivasankaran, SaravanaECE
Boyd, ErinECEVelagapudi, PrasannaECESek, Ying KitECEStrausser, KatherineMEG
Brockmeyer, MatthewECEVelazquez, AmandaMSEShah, AashniECETan, Chuen HwaECE
Brown, GeorgeMEGVu, LongECEShah, SamirECETan, JoomayECE
Carothers, DavidCEEWan, Chen-reiMEGShah, ShalinMEGTang, MaureenCHE
Cerully, LauraMSEWan, Wai LunECESharick, AdamMEGTang, XiaoECE
Chan, ErnestECEWiley, JenniferCEEShoupe, MichaelMEGTeets, AlanMEG
Chan, LianghongECEWiner, JessamineMSEShukla, AnitaCHEThurlow, PaulECE
Chandrasekhar, VijayECEWirth, AdamMEGShum, MichaelMEGVargo, RobertECE
Chaney, ChristopherECEWong, UlandECESiegel, AviMEGVora, JigarECE
Chang, CathyMEGWu, Xian-yiMEGSmith, BrandonCHEWeigand, CaitlinCHE
Chu, RobertECEYuen, Wai-chingECESpiegel, MarkusCHEWeller, DanielECE
Clavelle, AdamMEGZhang, PeterECEStawartz, CoryMEGWilson, MaryMSE
Close, BrianMSEZhou, GeraldECETai, MitchellCHEYu, EstherMSE
Coffey, EthanMEGTang, BengECE
Cole, JohnECETaylor, JoshuaMEG
Collins, KellyECEJuniors:Thompson, MilesMEGFreshmen:
Colyer, RobertECETran, JonathanECE
Datta, TanusreeECEAbd Rauf, Seri RahayuECE* Tso, WilliamMEGAgarwala, AdityaCOO
Deible, JaredCEEAnderson, AricCHEValarezo, ChristopherECEAn, ZijiancooDektor, ShandorMEGArffa, RachelCHEVesper, AlexanderMEGAng, Eugenecoo
Dellon, BrianMEGAsci, MuratMEGViriyasitavat, WantaneeECEAzad, JehancooDoshi, AnupECEAttawar, AdithyaECEVizcaino, JesseECEBailey, MichaelcooElliott, JosephMEGBelknap, JohnMEGWang, AliciaECEBare, KeithcooFarrell, JosephECEBertucci, DavidMEGWilliams, LindaMEGBaxendale, JeffreycooField, JohnMSEBhagavatula, RamamurthyECEWong, Pui ChuanCHEBistline, JohncooGarcia, JonathanMEGBowland, AdamCEEWong, Yew ChoeCEECannon, BenjamincooGibbons / JessicaCEEBroderick, LeviECEYeager, MatthewECECavanaugh, ChristophercooGoh, ArthurCEEBrownridge, SelinaMSEYu, PhilipMEGChan, EriccooGoldman, DanielMEGChai, WilsonECEZhao, ClementCHEChen, Marcus CaixingcooHanson, LarsCEEChen, DanielECEChuah, Jun WeicooHo, WenyaoECEChen, VictoriaECEChuangsuwanich, EkapolcooHong, WenzhengECEChing, JerryMEGSophomores:Comes, RyancooHsu, VictorCEEChong, Yong KhongECEDonovan, AlexandercooHung, AndreasMEGChookajorn, TongjaiMSEAgarwal, ShantanuECEGoerner, JaredcooIannacci, MatthewMEGChu, GeraldMEGBingham, JonathanECEGoh, Keng YongcooJeevan, PrasanthECEChung, DanielECEBoyd, ChristopherMEGGonzalez-rivero, ManuelcooJohnson, GustavMEGClark, JoelMEGBrier, TravisECEHaag, AdamcooJung, WoonECECostello, SaashaMEGCarazo-zapetis, RexECEHamilton, AndrewcooKalonaros, LouisMEGCronin, KellyCEECates, NicholeMSEHamilton, MarkcooKelly, SeanMEGCrummy, TylerMEGChan, CadrianECEHoffmann, ToddcooKim, EdwardMEGCuadra, PhilipECEChang, AndrewMEGHuang, Hsiao-wencooKim, JayeonMEGDahlmeier, WilliamMEGChaudhary, VinayECEHuang, YihangcooKim, Kuok ChiangECEDave, AmarMEGCheah, Chern YihECEJain, AdicooLazur, NathanCHEDay, PaulMEGChikofsky, LaurenECEJohns, ChristinacooLee, Kwok MingECEDemattia, BarbaraMEGCho, IkjunMEGJohnson, AaroncooLee, ReginaldMEGDong, MingMEGChua, Ai QiECEJones, NicholascooLee, ShaunECEDoorley, GrahamMSEConley, CarolineMEGKedia, NipuncooLeong, DerekECEEnd, NicholasMEGCotton, EthanCEEKhetan, AlokcooLey-wild, RuyECEEngel, DavidMEGDuvallet, FelixECEKo, KaWaicooLi, ChingECEFeinstein, JaclynMEGFrankiewicz, SusanMEGKoh, Ming YangcooLim, Shir LeneECEFell, DevinMEGFrishberg, RyanECEKuhn, StephencooLudwick, RoyCHEFleming, KerminECEGozali, FaustinusECELee, Teck HuacooLuqman, FaisalECEFu, JennaECEGranahan, DanielECELee, Wei JiecooMarshall, SteveCHEGai, BoweiECEGreco, NicholasCEELee, Yu-chiangcooMastalski, JessicaMSEGiacomantonio, RobertMEGHaeuser, AmyMEGLiew, HongcooMatteo, ThomasMEGGiegerich, AlexaCEEHallock, ChristinaECELim, DanielcooMay, ChelseaMEGGoellner, EvaCHEHan, MinMEGLipkin, KevincooMcnerny, DanielCHEGoh, RodneyECEHasker, GeoffreyECELong, BenjamincooMelanko, JessicaCHEGoh, VincentECEHayashi, SallyCHEMarinack Jr, MartincooMenegakis, ZacharyECEGonzales, EricCEEHenry, KristenCHEMenzies, KatherinecooMengstab, EvanECEGopalkrishnan, AnandECEHirsch, BrianMEGMeza, JorgecooMeyer, MollyECEHairgrove, MarkECEHolop, RobertMEGMikes, StevencooMurphy, ErinCEEHanlumyuang, YurananMSEHuber, StevenMEGNg, ShihongcooNath, SonaliECEHarwardt, AndreasCHEJawahar, KushECENg, Tze ChangcooNg, Chun Yin IvanECEHeasley, JessicaMEGJenkinson, WilliamECE ;Nowak, BenjamincooNg, EuniceECEHeitz, FabienMEGJhunjhunwala, AvniECEOndeck, CourtneycooNg, JeremyECEHo, KaWingECEJones, MatthewMSEPahwa, RamanpreetcooNg, Tze HimECEHu, KennethCHEKam, GradonECEPalmon, GilcooOdowd, TimothyCHEHussin, RozanaECEKanodia, AdityaECEPatel, KaushalcooPalmisano, JohnMEGJohnson, ErickMEGKaplan, LindaCEEPheifer, MonicacooPenmetsa, ArunECEJuchniewicz, RichardMEGKapoor, SonaliECERobl, DouglascooPipatsrisawat, Thammanit ECEKeegan, TerenceMEGKasick, MichaelECERosenberg, MartincooPolat, BarisCHEKerchenfaut, JamesECEKelly, SeanECERunas, AlexandercooQidwai, SaimECEKirschner, HeatherECEKotterman, WilliamCEESeki, StephaniecooRacusen, ChristopherMEGKovell, LaraCHELai, EricECESeibert, AdamcooRanger, ColbyECELagrene, KarineMSELandis, DanielECESikaria, HemantcooRankin, EdwardECELahr, NicholasECELee, Hua-xingCHESingh, SidharthcooRau, MarkCEELee, JonathanECELee, Ning SungECESnyder, RebeccacooReid, MatthewECELeonelli, JosephECELim, Ken YuECESubramanian, KartikcooRogers, MatthewECELerner, AndrewMEGLim, Teng JiECETan, Alan YukuncooRogers, ToddMSELevitt, DavidECELordan, BrianCHETaylor, ColincooSalvia, JamesECELim, Han ChunECEMartin, ZacharyCHEUlish, CarlenecooSaulnier, NicoleECEMack, MaryCHEMiller, TimothyMSEWaddell, JasoncooShah, PrameetECEMarini, JustinMEGMisek, GeoffreyECEWei, RebeccacooShen, AndyECEMerdassi, AmineECEMorozovsky, NicholasMEGWoodley, SophiacooShome, UrmimalaMEGMetter, JaredMEGMunoz, DanielECEYang, ZhuochengcooSingelyn, JenniferMSEMohd Sharipp, LiyanaECEMurthy, KartikECEYee, Charlescoo

---------------------------------------------------

Science ^Technology
28 February 2005THE TARTANA5
Genome project complete, CMU turns to proteins
Courtesy of Jon Jarvik
CMU scientists use retroviruses to place a biological LoJack on a cells proteins. 
The technique, called CD-tagging, let the researchers image the proteins above.
SciTechBriefs
by Danica Cowan
Junior Staffwriter
CMU researchers are on the 
hunt for proteins. Location 
proteomics, the study of where 
proteins go, may someday 
revolutionize how we diagnose 
and treat diseases. In the 
near future, this hunt may aid
computerized databases of 
complex biomedical information 
to quickly and accurately 
diagnose disease. Diseases could 
then be treated less invasively, 
and drugs with vastly fewer side 
effects would become possible.
With the human genome now 
complete, scientists know where 
all the various genes are located, 
and they have a superficial
understanding of how genes 
work. The next step beyond the 
Human Genome Project, location 
proteomics tries to further 
understand the central dogma of 
genetics: DNA makes RNA, and 
RNA makes proteins.
Just as a genome is the entire 
collection of genetic material in 
an organism, a proteome is the 
entire collection of proteins in an 
organism. Researchers at CMU 
are working on the next phase of 
genetic reaserach: the proteome 
project. They are searching for 
proteins within cells in order to 
catalogue where proteins are 
located.
The term location proteomics 
was coined at CMU, said CMU 
professor Peter Berget, the head 
of one of the labs working on this 
project.
At the heart of this practice is 
the quest to understand biologi
cal processes and how genes and 
other factors control them. Once 
scientists know more precisely 
what happens when things are 
working properly, they can bet
ter identify and treat malfunc
tions of those processes  that 
is, diseases.
For example, once scientists 
have a catalogue of all the 
proteins in human liver cells, 
doctors will be able to identify 
diseases caused by problems 
with the organs cellular proteins
and treat the problem directly, 
on the molecular level. Diseases 
affecting the liver such as 
cirrhosis, hepatitis, or cancer 
may become more easily cured. 
It is banking for the future, as 
Berget described.
This [location proteomics] 
is an example of a research 
that cannot be done by a single 
person, said Berget.
The Berget, Jarvik, and Murphy 
laboratories in the biological 
science department have all 
taken on an aspect of location 
proteomics as one of their many 
research endeavors.
Its one of those occasions 
when collaboration comes 
about naturally within one 
department... I had the talent in 
molecular biology, Jon Jarvik has 
the talent in cell biology and fluor
escence microscopy, and Bob 
Murphy has the talent in image 
processing, said Berget. Many 
times, one has to find collabora
tors that include people outside 
your department and occasion
ally outside your city. The three 
of us were lucky to be in close 
proximity at the right time.
The Berget laboratory designs 
pieces of synthetic DNA used to 
tag proteins so that they can be 
located. The Jarvik laboratory 
takes these tags and uses 
altered retroviruses to insert the 
tag into the host genome. The
tagged cells are then cultured 
and imaged. Both the Jarvik 
and Murphy laboratories take 
pictures of the proteins. The 
Murphy laboratory then analyzes 
and catalogues them using 
highly specialized software they 
design.
Its not like an assembly line, 
said Robert Murphy, professor 
of biological sciences and 
biomedical engineering. The 
three laboratories work in close 
collaboration with one another, 
with much overlap. The format of 
their research is as complicated 
and intertwined as the proteins 
they study.
The location of proteins is 
found by using a process known 
as CD-tagging. CD stands for 
central dogma, as in the central 
dogma of genetics. It is so named 
because all three components of 
the dogma  DNA, RNA, and 
proteins  are tagged.
CD-tagging works by 
introducing a synthetic piece of 
DNA into a genome. When the 
protein for which the DNA codes 
is made, the protein the synthetic 
DNA codes for is made as well. 
The result is a protein that glows 
green. We basically give proteins 
a flashlight, said Berget.
This piece of synthetic DNA, 
called a CD-cassette, must be
See PROTEOMICS, page A6
E-paper made with 
mirror technology/V
A new type of flat display for  
digital devices works even when 
viewed at an angle or under 
varied lighting conditions. The 
nanochromic display (NCD) uses " 
the same technology as the anti-' 
glare mirrors in cars. NCD was 
unveiled by Ntera, the company 
that designed it, at a recent trade 
show in Arizona. NCD has been 
called electronic paper because 1 
it combines the flat aspect of 
LCD screens with the multi-angle 
visibility of regular paper and takes 
almost no power to maintain. A 
layer of electrochromic material 1 
makes up the core of NCD screens; 
such material stays transparent 
until current is passed through 
it, at which point it turns blue. 
Analysts believe that NCD could - 
find use as a screen for MP3 ' 
players or cell phones, or even as 
a poster material.
Source: New Scientist
Apple moving away 
from FireWire
Apples latest generation of 
its trendy iPod music player will 
ship without FireWire cables. The 
players will still have USB 2.0 
cables. FireWire, also known as  
IEEE 1394, is an interface stan- 
dard developed by Apple; but the 
company is moving towards USB 
(Universal Serial Bus), the more 
common standard. The new iPods Z 
will still have a FireWire port so 
that owners can still use old or 
separately purchased cables. The >- 
move disappoints many iPod and 
Mac owners because iPods cannot 
recharge their batteries over USB 
as they could over FireWire, and 
because many older Macs do not 
support USB 2.0.
Source: CNET
Meat-eating dinosaur 
lived in Argentina
1A fossil of a carnivorous dino
saur has been found in Argentina, 
marking the first time a fossil 
from its taxonomic family has 
been found outside the Northern , 
Hemisphere. The new dinosaur, v 
Neuquenraptor argentinus, was a 
deinonychosaur, making it a close 
relative of birds and the famous 
velociraptor. Deinonychosaurs 
have sharp claws, sharp teeth, 
and a unique sickle-shaped claw 
that allowed them to disembowel - 
prey. N. argentinus probably split *- 
off from other deinonychosaurs 
when the ancient supercontinent 
of Gondwanaland began to frag
ment, showing that the dinosaurs 
history reaches further back than - 
previously believed. The sepa
rate evolution patterns could ac
count for minor differences in 
physiology.
Source: BBC
Astronomers discover 
dark-matter galaxy
University of Manchester and * 
Cardiff University scientists have 
released findings of what is said to 
be the first dark matter galaxy dis
covered. Although it was initially 
observed with radio telescopes in 
2000, the results were carefully ' 
re-examined before being made 
public. Researchers determined 
that the galaxy, VIRGOHI21, is far 
too massive and spins too quickly 
to be held together by the hydro- 
gen gas that is more typical in <- 
galaxies. Repeated observations - 
find no stars emitting light in the 
galaxy, leading scientists to con
sider it invisible.
Dark matter does not emit 
enough energy to be directly ob
served, but its effects are discern
ible to astronomers. Due to its 
extreme mass, the effects of dark 
matters gravity can be seen on 
other bodies. Scientists suggest 
that dark matter composes the - 
majority of mass in the universe.
Source: Space.com
Compiled by;
Corinne Pascal 
& 
Kevin Chang
How Things Work: Making Vodka
William Nicoll
What do the words screwdriver, ka
mikaze, and mudslide conjure in your 
mind? Is MacGyver fending off Japanese 
invaders from the shores of California? 
Not quite. These words are the names of 
three popular mixed drinks, all of which 
contain vodka. Since its introduction in 
the United States, vodka has become 
the nations most popular hard liquor. 
Everyone from James Bond to the col
lege student (of legal drinking age) has 
contributed to its worldwide popularity, 
a testament to the drinks versatility and 
universal appeal.
Universal appeal may even be an un
derstatement. Vodkas etymology derives 
from the Slavic word for water  and 
who doesnt like water? Unlike water, 
however, vodka has developed a strong 
sense of identity. If you were asked to re
peat the first thing that vodka brought 
to mind, it would probably be Russia. 
Vodka has become as iconic in Russia as 
St. Basils Cathedral and fur hats.
This identity extends to its physical 
characteristics as well. According to 
the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and 
Firearms, there exist eleven distinct vari
eties of whiskey. Types of vodka? One.
What exactly is our governments defi
nition of vodka? They classify it as a 
neutral spirit, which encompasses any 
drink completely devoid of character, 
aroma, taste, or color. Interestingly, 
they make no mention of what vodka 
should be made from. This is intentional; 
vodka can be made from anything con
taining starch or sugar. Grain, potatoes, 
molasses, and even the dregs of wood 
pulp processing can serve in this regard. 
Rye and wheat are the most prevalent 
ingredients for vodka.
How do these amber waves of grain 
make it to your ice-cold bottle of Stoli? 
Lets get a handle on vodka production.
Vodka, like many alcohols, begins with 
a slurry of grain or organic matter known 
as a mash. Yeast is added and the mash 
begins to ferment, ready to become al
cohol. For spirits like vodka this mash 
will then undergo a distillation process. 
In general, distillation separates mix
tures by exploiting a difference in boiling 
points of the components. This occurs 
because a molecules ability to become 
volatile or gaseous is inversely propor
tional to its weight.
Distillation of vodka is concerned with 
the separation of ethanol from water 
and impurities. The separation produces
Danielle Saudino/Art Editor
a concentrated solution of about 95 per
cent alcohol by volume (ABV). Multiple 
distillations improve purity and increase 
strength.
If distillation separates impurities, one 
might wonder why high-priced vodka 
exists if all vodka is featureless. It turns 
out that vodkas character is highly de
pendent on what it was made from, how 
it was made, and what impurities re
main. Potato vodkas, for example, have a 
slighdy sweeter taste than grain vodkas. 
The primary contributor to vodkas char
acter is a class of chemicals called con
geners.
Congeners are byproducts of fermen
tation that impart specific flavor, odor, 
and mouth-feel to a spirit. Because 
vodka is supposed to lack these qualities, 
distillation is responsible for removing 
these chemicals. Of course, distillation is 
not perfect and some congeners may re
main. The composition of these remain
ing impurities helps to distinguish differ
ent brands. Almost all modern vodkas 
contain congeners at less than 50 parts 
per million. Some claim vodka drinkers 
get fewer hangovers due to the low con
gener concentration in vodka.
The actual distillation process can oc
cur in two ways: pot or column distil
lation. The process for pot distillation 
sounds just like what it is: The material 
is dumped in a large pot and distilled. 
These pots are often made from copper 
because it conducts heat well and leaves 
no aftertaste. Pot distillation was the 
original production process for vodka and 
still sees some limited use. This type of 
distillation leaves larger concentrations 
of impurities. Many eastern European 
vodkas that use this process have a 
more robust character than Western 
vodkas.
The second process, column distilla
tion, is more widely used today. Column 
stills apply the principle of fractional 
distillation. A liquid mixture is boiled 
at the bottom of a tall column, where 
its vapors rise. As they rise the columns 
temperature decreases, causing compo
nents to condense at different heights. 
Collection pans spaced along the tower 
collect these condensates. Column dis
tillation is advantageous because it is 
a continuous process. This means that, 
unlike a pot still, production of vodka 
never has to stop. Who doesnt like the 
sound of that?
What leaves the distillation process is
See VODKA, page A6
Watts Humphrey to receive National Medal of Technology
by Nicole Hayward
Junior Staffwriter
As his wife and seven children watch from 
the audience in the East Room of the White 
house, Watts S. Humphrey will walk to the 
stage, where President Bush will place a medal 
around his neck. Humphrey, a Fellow of the 
Software Engineering Institute at Carnegie 
Mellon University, is finally being honored for 
his work: On March 14, he will be awarded 
the National Medal of Technology for his 
significant improvements to software engi
neering.
Its interesting  normally [Medal award 
winners] have three visitors. They are allow
ing me to bring my wife and all seven kids, 
says Humphrey. At age 77, Humphrey has 
fathered seven children, written nine books, 
created three revolutionary software engi
neering processes, and achieved five patents
 but hes not done yet.
For 27 years, Humphrey developed soft
ware at IBM. Then, in 1987, he joined the 
Software Engineering Institute at Carnegie 
Mellon, where he developed the Capability 
Maturity Model (CMM). [Its] a guidance 
system, savs Humphrey. The idea of the
CMM is to provide guidelines of what makes 
good software work. Humphrey likens using 
CMM to using a map of Pittsburgh bus routes. 
He points out that some routes will get you 
downtown faster than others. Likewise, CMM 
will give a software engineer the direction to 
fast, efficient production.
One person who would not be surprised 
by Humphreys analogy is Clyde Chittister, 
the Chief Operating Officer of the Software 
Engineering Institute. Chittister has worked 
with Humphrey for over 20 years. He says of 
Humphrey, He always has two main state
ments that he keeps in mind when working: If 
you dont know where you are at, a map wont 
help, and If you dont know where youre 
going, then any road will do.
CMM is now used throughout the world by 
software engineers. CMM isnt just for soft
ware production, though.
I use it to write books, says Humphrey. 
The same principles work. We use it broadly 
for systems work. Whether your process is 
made out of software or hardware or cream 
cheese  for the requirements in the design 
period, we use the same process.
Humphrey writes at his home in Sarasota, 
Fla. when he is not traveling. In the next few 
months, he will visit India, China, England,
and eastern Europe. At home, Humphrey en
joys the weather much more than he did in 
Pittsburgh.
When the Humphreys first moved to a 
small commune in Florida at the request of 
Mrs. Humphrey, they enjoyed sunsets on the 
beach. Now, Humphrey never fits visiting the 
beach into his busy schedule. His wife tells 
him take it easy once in a while. She says, 
Hes so enthusiastic about what he 
does ... Youve got to take care 
of yourself... Sometimes he 
forgets that.
Humphrey is as busy 
and enthusiastic as ever.
Currently, he is enhanc
ing CMM to tackle more 
than just management 
issues. He believes that to 
make quality software, de
velopers should individu
ally follow the principles 
of CMM. Humphrey calls 
the guidelines for devel
opers Personal Software 
Process.
Likewise, Humphrey is
See AWARD, page A6Courtesy of the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

---------------------------------------------------

warne;
For more information or to visit the campus, please contact:
THE TARTAN  FERPTTARV 98
Proteomics may advance medicine
want the retroviruses to throw 
darts at the DNA, said Berget.
CD-tagging has a number of 
important realms of application 
and importance beyond location 
proteomics, said Jarvik. Each 
of the independent laboratories 
working on location proteomics 
has a number of other projects 
in the works, many of which 
are interrelated to their specific 
portion of the proteomics project. 
For instance, CD-tagging is being 
used to try and better understand 
and utilize stem cells.
The diversity of the applications 
of the location proteomics project
PROTEOMICS, from A5
retrovirus. A retrovirus is a virus 
that inserts its own genetic 
material into a random location 
in the host genome.
[The retrovirus] lacks all of 
the natural viral genes and is not 
infectious in humans or animals. 
When mixed with live cells, the 
virus delivers its cargo of gene-tags 
into the cell, said CMU professor 
Jonathan Jarvik. Since the piece 
of DNA that will get a protein to 
glow green is inserted randomly, 
the desired result will only occur 
a fraction of the time. We really
are reflected in its funding. 
This research is funded by the 
National Institute of Health, the 
National Science Foundation, the 
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania 
Tobacco Settlement Fund, and the 
Merck Computational Biology and 
Chemistry Program. Currently, 
the project has a grant pending 
from the National Institute of 
Health. We should hear about 
the review of the grant late in 
March, Berget said. If we get this 
grant, it will allow us to develop 
high-throughput technologies 
for CD-tagging, imaging, and 
molecular analysis.
Purity determines vodkas palatability
VODKA, from A5
essentially vodka, but it would 
taste horrible because it is im
pure. Thus manufacturers in
troduce filtration as a final step. 
Filtration increases the spirits 
purity and palatability.
Prior to filtering, pure water 
is added to decrease the alcohol 
content to what will be bottled. 
This is typically around 40 or 50 
percent ABV. Once diluted, it is 
passed through one or more fil
ters. Activated charcoal is often 
used; its extremely porous micro
structure makes it an outstand
ing absorber. A gram of activated 
charcoal is so porous that it con
tains the surface area of three 
tennis courts.
Other filters range from cellu
lose and sand to crushed marble 
and diamond dust. Whether such 
expensive-sounding filters have 
an effect on vodkas quality is sus
pect, but one can be sure theyll 
increase the price. Ultimately, the 
choice of filter is up to the dis
tiller, who picks a filtration pro
cess based on the final character 
it gives to the vodka.
Once filtered, vodka is ready 
to be bottled. Some distillers
choose to add flavoring to the 
vodka here, ranging from honey 
to herbs to hemp seeds. The ad
dition of flavoring to vodka clas
sifies it into a special category for 
flavored spirits, so the previously 
mentioned rules dont apply.
Millions of casual drinkers and 
aficionados enjoy vodka today. 
When the family recipe for spirits 
was spirited out of Russia dur
ing the Bolshevik Revolution, the 
first commercial brand of vodka 
was born here in the States  
Smirnoff. Today, countless do
mestic and imported brands exist. 
Drink them responsibly.SEI Fellow to be honored by President
AWARD, from A5
applying CMM principles to teams 
of developers. Team Software 
Process aids groups of devel
opers in making higher quality 
products and more predictable 
work. Humphrey points out that 
developers should desire predict
able performance from their team 
members and themselves: If they 
want a life, its a predictable way 
of work.... If you get it done when 
you say youre going to, you can 
make it to dinner on time. 
Humphrey always made it to 
dinner on time. He and I are very 
well organized people, says Mrs. 
Humphrey. We get things done 
on time.... At home, dinner was 
at 6:30. [The children] got used 
to that and they led their lives the
same way.
Watts and Barbara Humphrey 
are proud of their childrens ac
complishments. I call them kids, 
but theyre not... They are all very 
accomplished in different ways 
... There are 11 degrees among 
the seven kids, says Humphrey. 
Humphrey notes that two of his 
children have their own busi
nesses; one was named endocri
nologist of the year; one has writ
ten three books; one has two sons 
and a daughter and still manages 
to work; and one is in advertis
ing. They are an accomplished 
crowd, says Humphrey.
Although an accomplished 
crowd, Humphreys children 
must have a hard time catching 
up to him. While he has no time to 
watch television, Humphrey finds
the occasion to read for pleasure. 
He just finished reading Big Bang, 
a book given to him by his young
est son for Christmas. Humphrey 
enjoyed the book because it ap
peals to his long-time interest in 
physics, in which he earned a mas
ters degree. Humphrey says that 
his most memorable physics pro
fessor taught him that he wasnt 
cut out to be a nuclear physicist. 
If he wasnt cut out to be a 
nuclear physicist, Humphrey is 
surely fit to be a winner of the 
National Technology Medal. He 
offers advice to a Carnegie Mellon 
student who wishes to develop a 
method for any sort of problem 
solving: See how you do it. Just 
sit down and say, Im going to de
velop a new method. It worked 
for Humphrey.
...go to Europe for Spring Break!
Rail Europe is offering one free rail day on any 6-, 8- or 10-day 
Eurail Selectpass! Take the train - the easiest way to get around 
in Europe - for less!
7 days for $267
Contact your travel agent 
or Rail Europe
raileurope.com 888-438-RAIL
Available for purchase Feb. 1-Mar. 31,2005. Pass must be used within six months from date of issue. Price based on Eurail 3-country Seiectpass. 
Price is per person based on two or more people traveling together.
Appi Campus Reps Are Employees Of Volt Technical Servicesme) 829.8400  1.800.777.3921
cue Porter Avenue, Buffalo, NY tiuet
www.dyc.eilu  Braduateadinissioiis@dyc.edu
Enjoy work. Experience Apple. Be a Campus Rep.
What is an Apple Campus Rep?
An iPod wearing, concert throwing, iTunes giving, 
music blasting, PowerBook toting, savvy talking,
Movie editing, pavement pounding, Life living,
Apple evangelizing, student sales, and marketing guru.
Who are we looking for?
We are looking for you. A college student that wants 
the best sales and marketing experience you can find 
while still in school. The best experience you can find 
period. We want high energy, high enthusiasm, and 
hard work.
Apply now.
http://campusreps.apple.com
 Campus Rep Program
D'Youville College is 
the first liberal arts and 
professional college to 
offer this program to 
students in a traditional 
college campus setting, 
which includes full 
integration of study in 
classrooms with students 
from other majors.
F\/T T *11DYouville
COLLEGELife

---------------------------------------------------

Westmoreland County 
 Community CollegeSailODDOnDCBC'CD12-week Session &
Online Classes 
May 16 - August 4
6-week Sessions 
May 16 - June 23 
June 27 - August 4
Day and evening classes - Fridays off il
115 online classes & 20 videocassette classes
7 locations - Youngwood, Belle Vernon, Export, 
Indiana, Latrobe, New Kensington & Waynesburg
View the summer credit schedule at 
wccc4me.org or call 1-800-262-2103.
STUDENTTRAVEL
Student Airfare_______________R/T
Paris. ... .......................$327
London. ............................$302
Amsterdam...................$279
Rome................................. $327
Brussels...................... $279
Cheap Sleeps
118 Meyran Ave,(412)603.1081
aduance your degree
John W. Hart, D.D.S.
200 N. Craig Street just Blocks from the Campus 
412-681-8011  www. universitydeyitalcdre. com
*Book a 6, 8 or 10-day 
Eurail Selectpass in March 
and get an additional day free
Subject to change and availability. Airfare is roundtrip. 
Airfare prices are valid until Mar 15, 2005 and may 
increase afterwards. "Great Trips do not include airfare. 
Taxes and other applicable fees not included.
For an opportunity to get acquainted with its*49 TEETHCLEANING
Includes: Gum Evaluation, Bite wing X-Rays, Complete Examination & Basic Cleaning New Patients Only - (a $130 Value)  Offer not valid in the presence of Cum Disease
ERock the front page of The Tartan
a newswriter. Coverby beco 
all the m
IIP ....S
r events on campus
and show off your writing to the
student
mail news@thetartan.orgor stop by UC 314 for more information.
AC* GEORGETOWN UO SUMMER SCHOOL
ENGAGE. ENRICH. ENROLL.
Which of over 300 courses will engage 
your interest this summer?
TRAVEL1 mm fl W mb KmLIKE YOU MEAN IT.
Paris. ... .......................$26/nt
London............. $21/nt
Amsterdam......................................... $30/nt
Rome............................. .$23/nt
Brussels.........................$27/nt
"European Getaway"
Start in London, 8/days
travel by train <fc*700to Paris"Europe Highlights"
France, Monaco,Italy, Vatican City, 6/days
Austria, Germany, <M 355Holland, Belgium ^ #
www. statra vel. com
TRAVEL
Ready to enroll? Check out our website to learn 
more about undergraduate and graduate day and 
evening courses, high school programs, and 
partial-tuition scholarships. On-campus housing is 
available.
Enrich your educational experience over 
three convenient sessions:
HTTP://$UMMERSCHOOL.GEORGETOWN.EDU 
CONTACT: SUMMER@GEORGETOWN.EDU
Dentis try&Gentle
PRE SESSION 
1ST SESSION 
2ND SESSION
MAY 23 - JUNE 17 
JUNE 6 - JULY 8 
JULY 11 - AUGUST 12
)

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
28 February ueeETHE TARTANPagAv
FromTheEditorialBoard
Loonatics are surely destined 
for mediocrity; its despicable!
Douglas MacArthur retired with the 
famous statement: Old soldiers never 
die, they just fade away. But despite hav
ing dressed up in military outfits many 
times, Bugs Bunny isnt following orders. 
With the entire Looney Toons franchise 
facing the dire straits of cultural irrel
evancy, Warner Brothers has decided to 
revitalize its aging star in a new series, 
The Loonatics. To put it bluntly, its time to 
put this wabbit to west.
Bugs has been transformed into Buzz 
Bunny, a superhero in the year 2772 whose 
sharpened features are more reminiscent 
of a Donnie Darko-inspired nightmare 
than the soft gray bunny of the 40s. 
Other Looney Tunes who have undergone 
this futuristic metamorphosis are Daffy 
Duck, Wile E. Coyote, Tasmanian Devil, 
Road Runner, and Lola Bunny, whose 
appearance as Buzzs female counterpart 
would appear to imply that the old-school 
Bugs cross-dressing days are finished. In 
fact, his dressing-in-anything days may 
be finished, too: The whole gang is either 
molded in color-coded body armor or 
genetically engineered to look like a set 
of bastardized Easter eggs gone wrong. 
It also would appear that they dont even 
have eyeballs in the future.
Whether this show will be worth watch
ing is impossible to say, although the im
ages released to the public inspire as much 
hope as a sequel to Space Jam. Whats im
portant to note is that the success of this 
show will not be measured by the number 
of children who love it but by the number 
of children who play with the action fig
ures. This is a simple rebranding effort to 
squeeze even more money out of a sink
ing flagship franchise, something that 
weve seen throughout our whole lives.
Yet eventually we need to take a stand 
and protect our childhood memories from 
over-capitalization. Multiple generations
grew up watching Looney Toons. It was 
violent, racist, bizarre, and inexplicably 
influential. Bugs was little more than a 
mixture of Groucho Marxs mannerisms 
with Tex Averys insanity, yet he became 
a cultural phenomenon, bringing comic 
relief to millions. Now that Bugs is no 
longer vital as an influential character, 
hes merely an attempt to attract the preteen markets money.
This is not to say that there werent 
marketing departments in the 40s and 
50s; that Bugs didnt go through 
processes similar to those of the heavily 
focus-grouped Loonatics of today. Quite 
simply, Bugs was never a non-profit char
acter; his sole purpose was to make War
ner Brothers money. Yet this most recent 
attempt to squeeze the last dollar out 
of this aging star has reinforced the fact 
that our childhood memories are being 
destroyed.
Our childhoods were fully commodi
fied; it was bad enough that we had to 
buy the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 
Secret Action Helicopter and the Care 
Bears lunchbox with matching Trapper 
Keeper. Product placement and viral 
marketing are destroying our ability to 
distinguish, between reality and commer
cials. Retro and kitsch fads are forcing 
us to buy back into a system we already 
purchased once, and now repackaging 
is reminding us that even our memories 
come with a price tag. Perhaps its time 
for the culture industry to let sleeping 
memories lie and to create new series for 
a new generation.
There are few shared cultural expe
riences that havent been degraded in 
our lifetime. The Loonatics are another 
painful reminder that our childhood is be
ing transformed from a time to grow into 
a time to spend. We may not have much 
left to protect, but thats all, folks.Stress culture at CMU detracts 
from students quality of life
The week before spring break, CMU 
students are already begging to flee. By 
this time, many of us say we are depressed 
by the inescapable gray sky; even more 
have fallen victim to the cold or flu 
after repeated sleepless nights, and all 
too many students are flirting with their 
threshold for stress. CMU pushes on its 
students an insurmountable stress cul
ture, one that prevents us from maximiz
ing all the potential benefits of our college 
experience.
Its not that the University isnt aware 
that students are stressed and tired. CMU 
was recently rated to have the thirdhighest workload in the nation by the 
Princeton Review, which makes us won
der how no one could have noticed a 
rising trend in stress. It seems that rather 
than treating the ailment, the University 
prefers to treat the symptoms.
Yes, Health Services and Counseling 
and Psychological Services are necessary 
in order to keep any campus healthy, 
but many of the ailments that students 
have been facing could have been ad
dressed ahead of time. Many of the sick
nesses that plague the campus are due 
to the increased stress levels students 
face on a daily basis, only to be further 
compounded by the fact that when we 
become ill, we still have work to do.
Professors need to take their students 
health into consideration. In the win
ter season, professors should take note 
when many of their students stop attend
ing class and, based on the number of 
students absent, consider adjusting the
workload to accommodate.
Professors in classes that tend to run 
together for particular majors, such as 
15-211 and 15-251 in computer science, 
might consider consulting each other and 
adjusting the difficulty levels of their own 
classes when the others get more difficult. 
The requirements for every major do not 
change, so professors should at least be 
aware of the standard workload for other 
courses at their level. By acknowledging 
that students are doing complementary 
work in other courses, professors can do 
a better job of accommodating their stu
dents, and students can do a better job 
of meeting the high standards set for 
Carnegie Mellon students.
The University has many opportuni
ties to make impacts in other ways that it 
seems to not deal with as well. Housing 
Services could offer a series of required 
dorm programs discussing stress, student 
health, and time management. Student 
Activities should also consider taking a 
proactive role in creating activities aimed 
at stress relief for all students. When cam
pus organizations offer massage therapy, 
for example, the response is almost al
ways positive. Even for a small fee, the 
tradeoff is excellent.
Although some of these topics are ad
dressed in under-publicized lectures, typi
cally students are often too busy or too ill 
to attend. The University needs to take 
into consideration the effect that stress 
has on students lives and deal with it 
accordingly, rather than simply stepping 
around the issue.
THE
Carnegie Meltons Student Newspaper Since 1Car
BRADFORD L. YANKIVER 
Executive Officer
EDITORIAL BOARD
J.T. TROLLMAN 
Editor-in-Chief
FRANKLIN WILLIAMS, Managing Editor 
ALEXANDRA KILDUFF, News Editor 
MARK EGERMAN, Personnel Manager 
ELI P0USS0N, Contributing Editor
EDITORIAL
CHRISTIAN DANDREA, Sports Editor 
AMANDA FLYNN, Pillbox Editor 
GREG PRICHARD, Comics Editor 
ROBERT KAMINSKI, Photo Editor 
DANIELLE SAUDINO, Art Editor 
NICK POZEK, Dossier Design Editor 
JIM PULS, Online Editor 
KEVIN CHANG, Online Design Editor 
EVAN SUNDWICK, Production Manager 
ARTHUR ODWYER, Copy Manager 
JEAN EUN, Advertising Manager
JACKIE BROOK, Forum Editor 
ALEXANDER MESEGUER, Layout Manager 
ADAM GREENBERG, Contributing Editor
STAFF
BRITTANY McCANDLESS, Asst. News Ed. 
CORRINE PASCALE, Asst. Sci. & Tech. Ed. 
MICHELLE BOVA, Asst. Pillbox Ed. 
MATT LIM, Asst. Photo Ed. 
TIFFANY YUN, Asst. Photo Ed. 
LIZZA McGREGOR, Asst. Art Ed.
RAN LIU, Asst. Advertising Mgr. 
WENYING WU, Asst. Layout Mgr. 
MEG RICHARDS, Asst. Systems Mgr. 
KRISTINA WILTSEE, Ombudsman
Students for Justice in Palestine and 
the Pittsburgh Palestinian Solidarity 
Committee wish to clarify several issues 
that have arisen regarding recent and 
upcoming speakers at CMU.
It should be understood that we nei
ther invited Malik Zulu Shabazz to the 
University nor endorsed his lecture. We 
object to Shabazzs views on many sub
jects.
We object equally strongly to the ef
fort on the part of some groups and indi
viduals to conflate Shabazzs views with 
those of Ali Abunimah and Norman Finkelstein, speakers we did invite. They 
are not remotely comparable.
Abunimah shared his positive vision 
for a pluralistic binational state in present-day Israel and the Occupied Terri
tories, in which all ethnicities and reli
gions would be accorded equal respect. 
He was adamant in his condemnation of 
terrorism.
Finkelstein is the son of survivors of 
the Warsaw Ghetto and the Maidanek 
and Auschwitz concentration camps. 
He will be speaking on the subject of 
his forthcoming book Beyond Chutzpah: 
On the Misuse of Anti-Semitism and the 
Abuse of History, which is primarily a 
rebuttal of Alan Dershowitzs The Case 
for Israel.
Shabazz attacks members of certain 
groups simply for belonging to those 
groups. Abunimah and Finkelstein at
tack only nonsensical political beliefs.
The idea that Abunimah and Finkelstein 
ought not to be scheduled in such close 
proximity to Shabazz is thus as antiSemitic as it is ludicrous, as it assumes 
that all Jews think alike.
Nothing is preventing student groups 
that support Israels current policies 
from inviting their own speakers. We 
encourage them to do so, realizing that 
opposing viewpoints are a necessary 
component of a constructive debate. In 
the meantime, however, we are in no 
way obligated to compensate for their 
lack of initiative.
Sam Waite 
Pittsburgh Palestinian 
Solidarity Committee
FromTheOmbudsman
I
Diversity and controversy can bring campus family closer
Kristina Wiltsee
Recent events on campus have trig
gered a response in the form of protests 
and free speech forums, as well as a 
great tide of letters and opinions from 
the community to the paper. As a result, 
the Forum section was briefly larger, 
and my job as Ombudsman has become 
significantly more interesting.
Many readers simply write replies to 
the articles that appear, but many also 
see the papers choice of content as, per
haps, too aggressive  that it is more an 
instigator than a mediator or reporter. 
The community has again started to ex
amine the role of free speech in college 
life, as it often does in times of contro
versy such as this.
One may recall the forums that oc
curred following the Natrat incident. 
The Tartan is taking a very active role 
in making sure that the community is 
well informed about all issues, as is its 
duty as a news source. The recognition 
of this duty has also resulted in a more 
intense inspection of the papers role in 
the community.
That The Tartan technically has all the 
freedoms of any newspaper is not the 
issue. What we must examine is the level 
of responsibility that the paper shows to 
the community. To publish editorials or 
letters that may be construed as attacks 
on individuals or groups is a practice 
that leaves many, specifically those who 
are involved, asking why it is necessary 
to publish such material. There is no 
clear answer however; just as contro
versial speakers can incite discussion, 
so can controversial columns. That the 
paper has been treading on eggshells for 
the past year is understood, but at what 
point will the concerns stop being about 
how the paper made errors in the past 
and start being about its current con
tent? Should that ever happen?
To bring this back to the current lec
tures controversy, when will we be able 
to stop talking about the definition of 
diversity and simply embody it? Going 
one step further, at what point can we 
stop focusing on the lack of true diver
sity on this campus and wake up to the 
reality that we are surrounded by di
verse opportunities in each person we
meet and every event we attend?
I have seen a change in this campus, 
a change that I have longed to see, and I 
hope that it remains this way. After all, 
it is better to disagree than to be indif
ferent, because disparity can lead to 
understanding, whereas nothing grows 
from indifference. The University real
ized that it had a problem nearly a year 
ago, as the Commission Report stated in 
its Charge 3; there was a step missing in 
the evolution from a segmented campus 
filled with diverse students to a unified 
campus where students truly embrace 
their differences.
President Cohon referred to our com
munity as a family in his recent letter 
to the students; this is perhaps a more 
fitting term than community, which is 
used often enough to be thought hack
neyed. It is fitting, not for the honeyed 
sentimentality it conjures, but because, 
as with any family, there is an uncle who 
is too quirky, or that cousin you cannot 
stand  yet there is a commonality that 
bonds. Whether blood, experience, or 
location, that bond can be a burden if it 
is not recognized.Privatization has potential to backfire
Kirk Higgins
Most U.S. Presidents become con
cerned about their legacy if they happen 
to be re-elected to a second term. While 
historical interpretation of the Iraq War 
is still up in the air, Bush has chosen to 
start changing his currently abysmal 
domestic policy record from his first 
term and tackle an issue held dear to 
fiscal conservatives: Social Security. The 
creation of the federal Social Security 
program during the Franklin Delano 
Roosevelt administration in the 1930s 
has always been a thorn in the side of 
conservative Republicans who ignored 
the impact of the Great Depression and 
still praise laissez-faire capitalism. While 
I applaud President Bush for focusing 
on the problems with social security, 
Im disappointed he chooses to create 
a doom-and-gloom scenario in order to 
rally support for privatization of Social 
Security.
During the State of the Union, 
President Bush claimed that the social 
security system would be bankrupt and 
exhausted by the year 2042. Bush has 
unfortunately chosen to simplify and 
exaggerate the detailed problem of So
cial Security. According to the Social 
Security Administration (SSA) and the 
Congressional Budget Office, the so
cial security system, if gone unchecked, 
would not experience any depletion in 
funds until the year 2042, for which 
the program would be still be able pay 
72 percent of the promised benefits to
retirees. The SSA still expects to pay 
over two-thirds of promised benefits by 
year 2075.
Bankruptcy is a misleading term since 
the program would still be able to pay 
a majority of promised benefits. Many 
projections the White House made re
garding the Social Security program, 
including a majority of the so-called 
11 billion dollar deficit, are expected 
to occur after 75 years and are based 
on an infinite time frame. The Amer
ican Academy of Actuaries dismisses 
these kinds of infinite projections 
as irresponsible and of little value to 
policymakers. While there are big prob
lems looming within Social Security, 
attempts to paint the system as in crisis 
are nothing more than disingenous and 
manipulative.
President Bush guarantees private ac
counts will return more money than the 
current system, which has a current re
turn rate of 3 percent. While I commend 
the current administrations efforts to 
encourage investing, saving money, and 
starting businesses, I feel Bushs justifi
cation for privatization defeats the en
tire purpose of social security. Social se
curity was created to be packaged with 
retirement funds and savings accounts, 
to be a floor security net for retirees. Any 
attempt to invest in the stock market and 
grow ones wealth should be done with 
ones own savings accounts or funds, 
not with tax dollars. History does show 
a good return on investments, but the 
stock market is still volatile and unpre
dictable. The stock market index is still 
about 10 percent lower than it was five 
years ago. There are no guarantees one
will be better off with private accounts, 
and Bushs plan does not repay any ben
efits lost from using a private account.
During the State of the Union, Bush 
invited members of Congress to work 
with him and come up with reasonable 
solutions to the Social Security problem, 
with the exception of raising taxes. 
Any future insolvency in the Social 
Security system is a symptom of Bushs 
dilemma in expanding national debt 
and budget deficits. The institution of 
private accounts alone would require 
borrowing over a trillion dollars within 
the first 10 years. Insolvency problems 
can be treated by adding more govern
ment workers into the program, which 
would increase the revenue. Other ideas 
include taxing the highest bracket only, 
and even cutting benefits for them, as 
well.
A more consistent plan on paying 
down the debt and cutting spending 
on other bloated federal departments 
would curtail our need to borrow. Since 
the ratio of workers to retirees is decreas
ing, a better job growth policy is needed, 
and a federal policy punishing outsourc
ing can help. These are just a handful 
of potential fixes to an overall sound 
framework that Bush should look into 
before advocating privatization. Bush 
must be sincere in putting Social Secu
rity problems in perspective, and should 
not play games based on ideology and 
the securing his own legacy.
Kirk Higgins (khiggins@J is a sophomore 
mathematical sciences and biomedical 
engineering major. He welcomes and ap
preciates all thoughtful responses.
r

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  FEBRUARY 28, 2005
If quizzes are quizzical, then what are tests?
Franklin Williams
Carnegie Mellons exam policy has 
been adequate for most of its existence. 
Complaints existing with the policy arent 
voiced often, but recently a looming prob
lem has arisen. Facing grading pressure, 
some professors have chosen to exploit 
the loopholes in the current testing sys
tem, resulting in unwarranted and added 
student stress. Typically, a certain amount 
of vagueness in policy is acceptable; but in 
this case, the University should consider 
a review of its policy for the sake of its 
students.
Exams are hard on every student. In 
order to be fully prepared, students need 
time. Lately, though, some professors have 
taken advantage of the leniencies in the 
Universitys exam policy and guidelines.
Classes can have up to three full-period 
exams during the course of the semester, 
making up anywhere from 15 to 20 per
cent of a students final grade. Professors, 
some of which I have had, have started 
referring to these tests as quizzes rather 
than exams in order to skirt around 
University exam policy. Courses such as 
15-251 and 88-307, for example, have 
morphed full-blown tests into quizzes at 
an alarming rate.
The Carnegie Mellon University 
Policies on Examinations take into ac
count the well-being of the Universitys 
students, stating that no student shall be 
required to take two full-period in-class 
examinations on the same day.
Although the professors offering these 
quizzes may not intend for the quizzes to 
cause students problems, other teachers 
may choose to take advantage of the tech
nicality in policy. There are professors 
who have refused to reschedule exams 
due to the fact that these tests are labeled 
as quizzes: University policy explicitly 
states that only examinations need to be 
rescheduled, not quizzes.
There are a number of issues concerning 
quizzes. Although quizzes are supposed to 
be relatively simple, professors often mis
use them as small tests. Too many of these
quizzes in one day can result in poor 
performance. Occasionally, these quizzes 
are even used as replacements for tests, 
resulting in multiple half-period quizzes 
which require constant studying or which 
might be far too difficult to adequately
prepare for.
Other similar problems occur toward 
the end of the term when projects are due 
at the same time as exams. Often, espe
cially in computer science and engineer
ing courses, professors give end-of-term
projects in addition to end-of-term exams, 
closely followed by finals. These projects 
are often worth a large portion of the 
grade, comparable to the percentage of a 
students grade allotted to the final exam. 
All of this work, followed by finals, is a 
burden almost impossible to handle. No 
students given a normal work load would 
be able to complete all these assignments 
and do well on their exams given this 
situation. We understand that as students, 
school is our first priority, but it becomes 
impossible to maintain a healthy balance 
between work and social life when this 
kind of situation arises.
The University needs to take progressive 
steps in defining their policy. There needs 
to be a percentage definition of exams. 
One suggestion might be that if a test is 
worth more than a certain percentage of 
a students grade, then professors should 
be required to label the test as an exam, 
forcing them to follow the Universitys 
exam policy. Having a standard system for 
defining exams will help students under
stand their rights, giving them the ability 
to cite University policy when their rights 
are infringed upon.
In addition, the University might con
sider going further  not allowing proj
ects or assignments that are a significant 
percentage of a students grade to be given 
or to be due at the same time as another 
piece of classwork. Although professors 
might not be able to empathize anymore 
with the amount and difficulty of work 
with which students are faced, grades 
and performance mean a lot to students. 
It seems that many instructors cannot 
understand that we work very hard to be 
where we are and are not always capable 
of performing at an optimal level.
Standardizing quizzes and exams would 
allow for students to understand the mini
mum level of commitment that would be 
required in order to complete assignments 
adequately. Overall, a revamping of the 
Universitys exam policy would better stu
dent life and ultimately lower the level of 
stress constantly felt throughout campus.
Franklin Williams (fhw@) is a junior Social 
and Decision Sciences major. He invites you 
to complete the title of his piece.
Freedoms of the student press must be respected
Alexander Meseguer
Two Thursdays ago, I wept 
for the first amendment at 
Carnegie Mellon. That was the 
night I was thrown out of the 
SPIRIT-sponsored Malik Zulu 
Shabazz lecture for taking still 
photographs for The Tartan. 
That night, Campus Police and 
the SPIRIT leadership allowed 
this sacred American ideal to be 
shredded.
Members of the organization 
defended their right to bring 
Shabazz to this campus, and I 
firmly stand behind that right. 
As President Cohon recently 
wrote to the community: It is 
the students right to hear that 
the University must defend if it 
is serve its high function in so
ciety. The freedom of the press 
is merely another facet of that 
right to hear that Cohon prop
erly pointed out, and anyone 
who values the free exchange 
of ideas should feel obligated 
to defend the basic notion. The 
First Amendment is a package 
deal; the freedoms of speech, as
sembly, religion and press are 
all sides of the same die which 
the Founding Fathers cast in the 
great experiment of democracy. 
If you abridge one, you abridge 
them all.
The fact is on that day, the
students right to hear was 
wantonly disregarded. While 
there are no legal grounds for 
this right, it is important to ask 
ourselves as a university: What 
do we believe in? Do we want 
to respect all the laws that pub
lic universities must adhere to? 
Are there times where this defer
ence to the laws of our nation
and photographic access to all 
events sponsored in whole or 
part by our student activities fee.
As I was reporting for my pair 
of articles on cmuTVs fund
ing request from the Student 
Dormitory Council, I was told I 
couldnt record audio. At a public 
meeting held by a group funded 
by a mandatory student-paid fee,
is not subject to interception, un
der circumstances that justify that 
expectation, (http://www.rtndf. 
org/reso urces/hidden cam era/ 
index.html)
Some might argue that as long 
as the reporter is allowed to be in 
the room, there is enough access 
to tell the story. The reality is 
that recording and photographThe First Amendment is a package deal; the freedoms 
of speech, assembly, religion and press are all sides 
of the same die which the Founding Fathers cast in the 
great experiment of democracy.
must be abandoned, our own 
rules tailored to uniquely fit the 
Carnegie Mellon environment? 
The answer is yes. The time to 
abridge these rules is when they 
jeopardize our mission as an edu
cational institution. For example, 
we ban weapons from campus 
because we dont want teachers 
worried that the next R they give 
will be their last.
In a similar fashion, the free
dom of the student press cannot 
go unchecked. If it did, fascinat
ing lecturers and awesome bands 
would shun our campus. For the 
students of Carnegie Mellon to 
benefit the most from their cam
pus media, it must be allowed 
unfettered physical, auditory,
I was told I couldnt record for the 
sake of accuracy. SDCs leader
ship even went so far as to consult 
University counsel on the press 
right to record. I was informed 
that since Carnegie Mellon was a 
private institution, I had no right, 
by law, to record, even if the 
setting lacked a reasonable ex
pectation of privacy, a standard 
etched into Pennsylvania law. 
From the Radio and Television 
News Directors guide Hidden 
Cameras Hidden Microphones: 
The statute requires a reasonable 
expectation of privacy for oral 
communications. To be protected, 
an oral communication must be ut
tered by a person exhibiting an ex
pectation that the communication
ing are incontrovertible methods 
of carrying out the process of 
verification. Reporters have the 
potential to distort the truth, but 
pictures and tape are not predis
posed to bias or a distortion of 
reality. Their judicious use can 
enrich The Tartans reporting. In 
the end, there will be less mis
takes and more truthful coverage 
through these other ways of tell
ing the story.
This week, I was pleased to 
hear that the administration is 
taking action. Dean of Student 
Affairs Michael Murphy is look
ing into the matter. He is aware 
of the issues at stake, and I have 
faith that he can find the correct 
balance between the students
right to hear and the ability to 
provide the best learning envi
ronment they can. But this policy 
must address Campus Polices 
role at student events. They were 
the ones who enforced SPIRITs 
misinformed decision. Dont get 
me wrong: The men and women 
of CMU Police are great people, 
honest and earnest in their job, 
but they must be given the proper 
guidance on this issue because 
it is one that sometimes invites 
confrontation.
It is the mission of our press 
to tell the story of university life 
through the eyes of the student. 
Their joys, their sorrows and 
their frustrations have revealed 
themselves in different media 
for nearly 100 years: first on the 
broadsheet, then on the airwaves, 
and, most recently, cyberspace. 
Please, demand that the student 
press be allowed to tell your story 
the right way and tell President 
Cohon and Dean Murphy to write 
our rights into policy.
Alexander Meseguer (amesegue@J 
is a senior in electrical and com
puter engineering. He plans to 
exercise his freedom of the press 
until his pen is pried from his cold, 
dead hands.
Editors Note: the opinions ex
pressed in this article are not neces
sarily representative of The Tartan 
or the rest of its staff.
THE TARTAN
SENIOR STAFF 
Albert Cohen
STAFFWRITERS 
Alisha Bhagat, Khalid El-Arini, 
Andrew Francis, Isabel Gardocki, 
Israel Guzman, Kirk Higgins, 
Mustafa Khan, Louisa Kinoshi, 
Luke Kryzanowski, Kevin LaBuz, 
Jonathan Mendelson, Bhas 
Nalabothula, Laura Palotie, Janet 
Park, Marshall Roy, Lauren Sauer, 
Alexander Su, Dinah Winnick
ART
Laura Frye, Sarika Goulatia, 
Alejo Grigera, Kat Hallberg, Lev 
Khessin, Amy Johnson, Gene 
Kim, Vanessa Shyu, Dawn Waleski
COMICS 
Alberto Almarza, Josh Atlas, 
Zachary Beard, Bill Bernstein, 
Amy Bickerton, Jon Brodsky, 
Theresa Chen, Max Kaufmann, 
Ryan Maloney, Ashleigh Molz, 
Jimi Okelana, Ed Ryan, Jon 
Samuels, Matt Siegel, Lisa 
Troutman, Lara Voigt
PHOTO
Kayhan Ahmadi, Kevin Anderson, 
John Davin, Kelly Duncan, 
Caroline England, Marcus Gho, 
Chang Glasgow, John Herrington, 
Wenyao Ho, Dexter Hu, 
Gautham Jothi, Veronique Lee, 
Tori Noquez, Zoe Pinfold, Eno
Thereska
COPY
James Auwaerter, Nicole Barley, 
Christine Beaty, Elizabeth Decker, 
Anne DiGiovanni, Catherine Fan, 
Adina Klein, Misha McShane, 
Greg Price
LAYOUT 
Jefferson Ahn, Jordan Dialto, 
Allison Gallant, Andrea Garvue, 
Kristen Lukiewski, Matthew 
Siegel, Hannah Soll-Morris, 
Rachel Stadelmeier, Reina 
Takahashi
ADVERTISING 
Connie Chang
JUNIOR STAFF 
Bryan Arsham, Geetika Bhandari, 
Andrew Clearfield, Danira 
Cowan, Didi Garrity, Jason 
Goldstein, Natalie Gonzalez, 
Amy Johnson, Rebecca Lee, Mike 
Madvedoff, Tom Matta, Akil 
Simon, Jill Wetzler
The Tartan is a student newspaper at 
Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part 
by the Student Activities Fee. It is a weekly 
publication by students during the fall and 
spring semesters, printed by Valley News 
Dispatch, Inc. The Tartan is not an official 
publication of Carnegie Mellon University. 
The first issue is free; subsequent issues 
cost $0.50 at the discretion of The Tartan. 
Subscriptions are available on a per semes
ter basis.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning 
of the opinion section are the official opin
ion of The Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, 
Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opin
ions of their individual creators. Letters to 
the Editor are the opinions of their authors. 
Letters from within the University commu
nity take precedence. Letters intended for 
publication must be signed and include the 
author's address and telephone number for 
verification; letters must not exceed 350 
words. Authors names may be withheld 
from publication upon request. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 pm 
on the Thursday before publication by 
mail or to forum@thetartan.org. The Tartan 
Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold 
from publication any copy it deems unfit.
Comments about and suggestions for The 
Tartanand noticesof erratashould bedirected 
to The Tartans independent Ombudsman at 
ombudsman@thetartan.org.
 2005 The Tartan, all rights reserved. 
Library of Congress ISSN; 0890-3107
Office: University Center room 314 
Phone: (412) 268-2111 
Advertisements: (412) 258-2113 
Fax: (412) 268-1596 
Mail:
The Tartan / Box 1017
Carnegie Mellon University
Pittsburgh, PA 15289-1017 
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
We know your bodys here, but your minds on the beach. We asked you:
How are you going to spend your Spring Break?A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled by Caroline England
Stephanie Fonticoba
First-Year
Architecture
Going to St. Thomas.
Meagan Robles
First-Year
Chemical Engineering
Going to see a Broadway show with my 
friends, and I am going to hang out with 
my family.
David Kerr
First-Year 
Design
Going to Myrtle Beach and then 
Wisconsin.
Amy Galvin
Junior
Ethics, History & Public Policy
Taking the train home to Boston and 
hanging out with my girls, my friends.summerMusical
Antwayn M. Hopper
Sophomore 
Musical Theater
Auditioning for a professional 
stock theater company, the 
Theatre of Wichita.

---------------------------------------------------

AoTHE TARTAN  FEBRUARY 28, 2005
ttfmn itmtt
Elegantly furnished one and two bedroom suites with 
equipped kitchen, fluffy linens, TV,VCR, digital 
cable movies, free local phone and reserved parking.
tods*MSwJieMcwm
PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
^1 pu, fit the qtnfhmq '
Wk
m ^ i||
DUTOIT CONDUCTS 
ROMEO & JULIET
Charles Dutoit, conductor
_ WHt Jf:
O % **PROKOFIEV: Suite from Romeo and Juliet 
BRAHMS: Symphony No. 1
Dutoit showcases the PSO musicians through the works of Brahms and Prokofiev.
Sunday; March 6, 2005  2:30pm
Heinz Hail

1
Students and faculty/staff order discounted tickets on campus 
at the information desk in the University Center.
$14 Student Rush tickets available 2 hours prior to concert.
City transit cuts: a retrospective by a bona fide transit aficionado
Adam Greenberg
L Lets face it: Students got off 
r easy in the latest round of Port 
Authority service cuts. The original plan was a veritable tran' sit holocaust: no service after 9 
pm, or on weekends or holidays, 
= and massive route cuts. What we 
3 ended up with instead was re<i duced early morning service, only
- one route elimination, and two
* routes that will no longer serve 
9 campus on weekends.
It always amazes me how little 
: students use the bus system, but 
' even students using cars will be
* quick to note the benefit of buses 
" keeping thousands of cars off the
* countys roads each day, as well 
as opening up all those parking
* spaces. To give a brief biographi" cal picture of myself, Im a transit 
w nut. I use $600 worth of bus rides
each semester, have used over 80 
r of the Port Authoritys 200-plus 
 routes, and keep every printed 
schedule they issue on a table in
- my apartment. Personally, with 
the cuts, Im losing a big part of
my recreation in Pittsburgh. For 
the so many students who have 
never used most of the routes that 
are getting cut next week or were 
once cut, I offer you my perspec
tive on some of my favorites: To 
all the routes Ive loved before...
12U  The 12U was a quaint 
bus I used but once my first year 
at CMU. As its number implies, it
ran from Oakland to Ross Park. 
A Saturday-only schedule meant 
low ridership. Ross Park trips 
from Oakland were lessened by 
the advent of the Waterfront, and 
the 12U stopped running  un
ceremoniously  in 2002.
42L  This was the Library 
route of the Pittsburgh T. Last June 
it was supplanted by the Over
brook line  the long-promised, 
refurbished centenarian right-ofway  to recreate the 47L Library
via Overbrook. I applaud the Port 
Authoritys initiative in doing 
this, but miss the old designation 
all the same. I was on the thirdto-last trip out of Library, a tiny 
hamlet right on the vanguard of 
Pittsburgh sprawl.
54C, 61C, 71A (24-hour ser
vice)  Believe it or not, when I 
got to CMU, seven routes served
Pittsburgh around the clock, in
cluding these three in Oakland. 
They were eliminated because 
staffing garages and providing 
security cost more than it was 
worth. The runs were basically 
a novelty to me at the time: As 
a first-year student, I lived on 
campus and had no reason to 
use them save for excursions to 
24-hour restaurants in the Strip 
and the South Side. Eventual res
toration of 24-hour service should
be among the long term goals.
Below are some routes that stop 
running next Monday; I recom
mend using them while you still 
have the chance.
25D  It was a route that 
was starting to show promise. In 
November the 25D was extended 
from Carnegie to Mt. Lebanon. It 
used unusual purple mini buses
as its equipment, setting it apart 
from most routes throughout the 
city. Two of the times I rode this 
route I did so end-to-end as the 
only passenger aboard. Im not 
surprised the routes being cut, 
but it was wonderful to read a 
book while being privately chauffeured through bucolic west-end 
suburbs.
74B  I remember back when 
the 74B was the 71B; I dont re
member, however, back when it
was the 4U. The route is basically 
extra Oakland-side 500 service: 
great for students living in Shadyside, but ultimately duplicative of 
another route. I did use it in its 
previous incarnation as the 71B. 
If you need any more evidence 
Im obsessed with transit, enough 
should come from the smirk 
that went across my face when I
learned they renumbered the bus 
to conform to the pattern.
43 E, 52  These are two 
routes offering grand views of 
downtown. The 43E is an express 
bus, the only route to climb the 
McArdle Roadway as it clambers 
up the face of Mount Washing
ton and the fastest route to its 
bars and restaurants just before 
dinnertime. I only used it once 
as part of a trip including an in
cline. The view from cars, with
out the giant picture windows, 
dont compare  at least when 
the buses are clean. The 52 is a 
light rail route running through 
Allentown. Theres a stretch on 
Arlington Avenue where there are 
no cross streets for so long that 
stops are called by the number of 
the house theyre in front of. Its 
also the last of the great streetcar 
climbs in the region. Surely the 
rails will be kept for Transit Tun
nel closures, but Knoxville bus 
service just cant replace it. For 
me, these buses represented my 
fan trip last Friday.
These were resources, as are 
the remaining routes; feel lucky 
the worst-case scenario isnt hap
pening yet. Save on parking; save 
on gas; get a little exercise by 
walking to the bus stop. Unless 
Harrisburg has a massive change 
of heart, some of whats left will 
be gone in July, and then you 
might notice the change.
Adam Greenberg (agreenbe@J is a 
contributing editor to The Tartan. 
He expects that, next year in law 
school his friends back in Pitts
burgh will still be calling him for 
Port Authority schedules.
Im a transit nut. I use $600 worth of bus rides each semester, have 
used over 80 of the Port Authoritys 200-plus routes, and keep every 
printed schedule they issue on a table in my apartment.
UC 314. 412.268.2111. contact@thetartan.org
Safes*
Best location in
Pittsburgh
One block from 
Walnut St.'s 144 
shops,
entertainment and 
dining
Less than 1 mile 
from The University 
of
Pittsburgh, UPMC 
and Carnegie 
Mellon University
Free High Speed 
Internet Access
OfPlaid
The Tartan
Delivering You the News
That Matters
Daily, Weekly and 
Monthly Rates
5405 Fifth Ave 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232 
shadysideinn.com 
{412} 441-4444
DUTOIT & BRONFMAN
Charles Dutoit, conductor 
Yefim Bronfman, piano
BEETHOVEN: Piano Concerto No. 5, "Emperor" 
BRAHMS: Symphony No. 1 (Fri)
PROKOFIEV: Suite from Romeo and Juliet (Sat)
Series sponsor: w) Melton Sponsored by:
Beethoven and Brahms write noble music, overflowing with humanity. And Prokofiev, 
too, writes music so full of character that Shakespeare's story comes to vivid life.
Friday, March 4, 2005 - 8:00pm 
Saturday, March 5, 2005 - 8:00pm
Hein/. Httl!
Power
JS%%
' : . v II Ipifi pl|(|i y |l lg 0C |i i - i
^m 4 m?''41 ' ' " '
Sll8dt h P l II C
ifll.-, * ' *1lia.
% >: . K H ' <.Jpg-4p:^

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  FEBRUARY 28, 2005All
The NBA trade deadline: Better than Christmas
by Christian D Andrea
Sports Editor
Players across the NBA are 
looking at new teammates; 
11 deals were transacted be
fore the leagues trading dead
line February 24. Superstars, 
youngsters, and journeymen 
alike have packed up their gear 
and look to make an impact on 
their new teams. Heres a tradeby-trade analysis of the deals that 
went down Thursday.
1. The Sacramento Kings 
trade power forwards Chris 
Webber and Michael Brad
ley and guard Matt Barnes to 
the Philadelphia 76ers for 
forward/center Brian Skinner and 
forwards Corliss Williamson and 
Kenny Thomas. The Sixers now 
emerge as a top playoff threat 
by adding a competent superstar 
to complement Allen Iversons 
recently unselfish play. Webber, 
despite his shaky playoff history, 
gives Iverson someone to pass 
to and someone who will attract 
the attention of other defenses. 
If C-Webb can stay healthy, the 
Sixers will fly into the playoffs. 
If not, they might squeeze in as 
an eighth seed. The Kings, on the 
other hand, look to have gotten 
pennies on the dollar in return for 
their superstar. Kenny Thomas is 
an underrated forward, but hell 
have less success in the West. Wil
liamson is getting old and Skin
ner has never really been a good 
center. Maybe this is a case of 
addition by subtraction for the 
Kings.
2. The New Orleans Hor
nets trade point guard Baron 
Davis to the Golden State War
riors for PG Speedy Claxton and 
center Dale Davis. If anything, 
this trade shows New Orleans 
knows that theyre not going 
anywhere for a while. The move 
slashes payroll for them and 
signifies what could be a long 
rebuilding process. Claxton is a 
decent guard, but Davis will likely 
retire after the season and brings 
nothing to the team besides a 
little leadership. For the War
riors, this deal must have seemed 
too good to pass up. However, 
they now have over $250 million 
locked up in mediocre players 
(Derek Fisher), oft-injured play
ers (Baron Davis and Troy Mur
phy), or players who combine the 
two (Adonal Foyle). With their 
financial flexibility gone, Baron 
better be ready to whip this team 
into shape or prepare for a string 
of losing seasons.
3. The Atlanta Hawks trade 
PF Antoine Walker to the 
Boston Celtics for PFs Tom 
Gugliotta and Michael Stew
art, PG Gary Payton, and a 
conditional first round draft pick. 
Celts fans might see Paul Pierce 
smile for the first time since 
2003 now that he has been re
united with his former partner 
Antoine Walker. Pierce was ob
viously disgruntled when Toine
was shipped out of town, and 
his passion suffered as a result. 
Together again, the two could 
bring the Celtics back to the top 
of the Atlantic again. Without 
Payton, young PG Delonte West 
has gotten a chance to play, and 
he hasnt disappointed so far. 
The Hawks, in return, got two 
useless veterans, a non-lottery 
draft pick, and the chance to 
sign Gary Paytons release, a 
player who may end up re-signing 
with the Celtics anyway. Another 
stellar trade for Atlanta.
4. The Celtics trade G/F Jiri 
Welsch to the Cleveland Cava
liers for a first-round draft pick
worthless. However, with the 
emergence of rookie Tony Allen 
as a defensive stopper and the 
new good-guy image of Ricky 
Davis, Jiri became expendable.
5. The Milwaukee Bucks 
send forward Keith Van Horn 
to the Dallas Mavericks in ex
change for PF Alan Henderson, 
center Calvin Booth, and cash. 
The Bucks drop the contract of 
the most overpaid player in the 
league, and the Mavs get a much 
needed presence in the paint and 
on the perimeter. Who cares if 
Van Horn cant really play defense 
and gets beat underneath three 
out of four times? Hell still score
Courtesy of AP
Toines back! Antoine Walker returned to the Celtics in a Thursday trade.
in 2007. While Boston fans ap
plaud the return of the Walker 
Wiggle  Antoine Walkers 
signature shimmy after a key 
three-pointer  theyll miss Welschs signature move, which con
sisted of the hyperactive Czech 
tripping over his own feet 
while running down the court, 
dribbling, or shooting free throws. 
However, he brings great energy 
and shooting skills to the Cavs, 
and will be a terrific comple
ment to a team that can use him 
correctly. By the time the Celts 
finally get their draft pick out 
of this, Cleveland will be one 
of the best teams in the league, 
making that pick more and more
points and grab a few rebounds 
to help his team out, especially 
with Erick Dampier hurt. For the 
Bucks, all they really get out of this 
deal is salary-cap relief. Though 
Henderson and Booth give the 
team more depth up front, theyre 
hardly long term solutions. They 
can only hope to use this extra 
money to sign someone who can 
play alongside shooting machine 
Michael Redd.
6. The Hornets trade 
forward Jamal Mashburn and 
PF Rodney Rogers to the 76ers 
for forward Glenn Robinson. Why 
did the Hornets make this move? 
Again, the salary cap gives the 
NBA a trade that wouldnt make
it out of most fantasy leagues. If 
Mashburn and Robinson are ever 
healthy again, Mash will blow 
Robinson out of the water in most 
offensive categories. Since both 
are injured and Robinson is a 
free agent after the season, the 
two cancel out. Essentially, the 
Hornets gave away Rogers for 
free. Hell help the Sixers like 
he helped the Celtics three years 
ago when he went there in a mid
season trade. Expect him to con
tribute as a big man coming off 
the bench who is also a presence 
from the three point line.
7. The Warriors send 
F/C Eduardo Najera and a firstround draft pick to the Denver 
Nuggets for F/C Nikoloz Tskitishvili and G/F Rodney White. Denver 
gets a crazy, intense forward, who 
joins other nasty big men Nene 
and Kenyon Martin with the Nug
gets. The draft pick here is a key 
element because, coming from 
the Warriors, odds are pretty 
good that it will be a top ten 
pick. In return the Warriors get a 
handful of potential. Tskitishvili 
tore up the summer leagues last 
year and White is a former lottery 
pick who can score when he gets 
minutes. It will be interesting to 
see how these two fit in with their 
new team. Skita could become 
a starting center in just a few 
weeks.
8. The Bucks send PG Mike 
James and center Zendon Ham
ilton to the Houston Rockets 
for PG Reece Gaines and a firstround draft pick. The Rockets 
add much needed depth at the 
point guard position with this by 
trading a youngster for a veteran. 
This move makes it clear that 
coach Jeff Van Gundy wants to 
win now rather than wait for 
Gaines to develop. James will 
immediately split time with Bob 
Sura and get his chance to run 
the offense. Hamilton could help 
up front, but will likely end up 
buried beneath Yao Ming and Kel
vin Cato. Gaines could develop 
into a nice player for the Bucks. 
Overhyped out of college, he is 
still a fundamentally sound point 
guard who can find the open man 
on the court.
9. The New York Knicks 
trade center Nazr Mohammed 
and guard Jamison Brewer to 
the San Antonio Spurs for PF 
Malik Rose and two first round 
draft picks. Isiah Thomas, in his 
quest to drive the Knicks into the 
basement of the Atlantic Divi
sion, threw away one of his best 
performers in Mohammed 
for another undersized power 
forward and two late-round draft 
picks. Rose isnt a young guy, and 
it seems like hell just get stuck on 
the New York bench behind Kurt 
Thomas and Mike Sweetney. Mo
hammed will immediately help 
the Spurs, filling in for an injured 
Rasho Nesterovic. When the two 
are both healthy, theyll create an 
above-average rotation at center 
to help take some pressure off 
Tim Duncan.
Mens track 
second in 
UAAs
TRACK, from A12
record setter. For spectators in 
New York, this meet had all of the 
excitement generally present at a 
championship meet.
However, some members of 
the team were able to win with
out a photo finish. Sophomore 
Russell Verbosky won the 200m 
dash with a UAA record time of 
22.19. Verbosky, Bonaddio, Mark 
Davis, and Kiley Williams took 
gold in the 4x400m relay, tearing 
apart the competition with a time 
of 3:19.36  a new conference 
record  to defeat second-place 
Washington by nearly four sec
onds.
In the field events, Tom Matta 
continued his impressive perfor
mance in the shot put and weight 
throw. He won both events, setting 
a university record with a throw of 
55 feet, seven inches in the weight 
throw.
Senior Matt Dalka was an unex
pected winner in the high jump 
competition during the meet, 
clearing 6' 2" to win.
Many athletes from 
Carnegie Mellon will be travel
ing this weekend to the ECAC 
Championships this weekend at 
St. Lawrence University. A select 
few who have qualified for the 
NCAA championships (Verbosky, 
Bonaddio, Matta, the 4x400m 
relay team, and the distance med
ley team) may travel to Illinois 
Wesleyan University to compete in 
two weeks.
Carnegie Mellon
February 28 March 1 March 2 March 3 March 4 March 5 March 6 
MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY
GOLF
TENNIS
INDOOR 
TRACK 
& FIELD
St Lawrence 
University 
TBAmm
St. Lawrence 
University 
TBA
St Lawrence 
University 
TBA
Roller hockey heats up 
in second half of season
by Brian Smith
Junior Staffwriter
Though the teams pres
ence on campus seems small 
compared to other club sports 
such as crew or lacrosse, the 
members of the CMU roller 
hockey club, are dedicated to 
their sport. These athletes com
pete throughout the school year 
in the Western Pennsylvania Col
lege Inline Hockey League. All 
games are played at the Robert 
Morris University Island Sports 
Center in Moon Township. Their 
competition ranges from NCAA 
Division I schools (Pitt and 
Duquesne) to Division III (Slip
pery Rock and Grove City).
For those not familiar with 
the game, roller hockey play 
is quite similar to ice hockey, 
with several significant adjust
ments. First, it is non-check, 
though incidental contact is al
lowed. Second, there are four 
skaters and a goalie on the rink 
for each team, compared to the 
five skaters used in ice hockey. 
There are also no offsides or ic
ing stoppages in roller hockey, 
though most penalties do carry 
over from one sport to the other. 
Competitive roller hockey is 
played on a Sport Court sur
face, with a puck that is lighter 
than that used for ice hockey. 
These departures from its frozen 
sibling combine to make roller 
hockey a more wide open game, 
with more scoring and greater 
opportunities for creativity.
In the 10 team Tier I divi
sion, CMU has won six straight 
games after a slow start to put 
them in the middle of the playoff 
hunt. They currently sit in fourth 
place with a 7-5-1 record. With 
only a single regular season 
game remaining, versus bitter 
rival Duquesne, the team looks 
to carry this late-season success 
into the playoffs. They look to 
return to the form they had in 
early 2003, when they captured 
the Tier I championship.
The Tier I team features a 
large group of veteran skaters, 
as well as some very productive 
underclassmen. The senior de
fensive pairing of George Brown 
and Ryan Hoover has been very 
successful, and combined with 
the outstanding performance of 
sophomore goalie Garret Jenkinson, the Tartans are one of 
the best defensive teams in the 
league. Juniors Jeff Hawaii 
Bourke, Andrew Chen, and Matt 
Simone have also played well.
At the opponents end of the 
rink, the Tartans have spread 
the scoring touch around, with 
virtually every member of the 
lineup contributing to the score
board at some point. The of
fensive efforts of seniors Ben 
Karp and Pete Beutler, have 
been strong throughout the 
season, and contributions 
from first-years Matt Salac and 
Adam Kahn have helped put 
the team on top in several close 
contests.
The new year has also been 
kind to CMUs other roller 
hockey club team. The clubs 
Tier II squad has posted a 4- 
0-1 record and outscored their 
opponents 41-9 in 2005. We 
have a word for this in Colom
bia: dominacin, said defenseman and graduate student Julio 
Lopez. Improving on a 44 re
cord from the fall semester, the 
team has rocketed to third in the 
eight team division and can take 
second place with a win in the 
last game of the season.
It seems like the net is a 
bit bigger since winter break, 
said graduate student Joe Plitz. 
Maybe the goalies are just 
worse, but everything I shoot 
seems to have a chance to go in. 
Plitzs seven goals in two games 
this week earned him Player of 
the Week honors and elevated 
him to the top of the team scor
ing list with 16 goals. Hes scored 
14 of these since the new year.
Everyone is playing better as 
a team, said the captain, grad 
student Matt Palastro. Were 
beating the teams we need to 
beat and surprising the ones that 
overlooked us.
During the 2005 campaign, 
the Tartans have vanquished 
LaRoche College and Duquesne 
University by a combined score 
of 21-2. More importantly, how
ever, they beat second-place 
University of Pittsburgh-White 
in a 5-2 game Tuesday and put 
distance between themselves 
and fourth-place Geneva with 
a convincing 13-3 victory on 
Thursday. Were peaking at the 
right time, said Palastro.
Their final game of the regular 
season is against first-place Rob
ert Morris University, but even if 
they dont finish the 2005 regu
lar season undefeated, they will 
have proven that CMU is a force 
to be reckoned with, even if it is 
only the B division.
Playoffs for both divisions be
gin just after spring break, with 
the best-of-three championship 
series April 6 and 7.Womens track sets record
by Tom Matta
Junior Stafjwriter
Strong performances in the 
distance and throwing events 
paced the womens track and 
field team this weekend. They 
traveled to the Armory for the 
UAA Indoor Track and Field 
Conference Championships and 
placed fifth overall while setting 
a new school points record in the 
process.
The womens distance team 
had some outstanding perfor
mances, with juniors Jocelyn 
Sikora taking second place in 
the mile with a time of 5:07.46 
and Drea Garvue taking third 
in the 3000m run with a time of 
10:31.61. The throwing squad 
scored a number of points as 
well, with senior weight thrower 
Katie Marcoux taking second 
place in the event with a mark of
15.14 m (49'8.25"), and sopho
more Becky Metier taking sec
ond place in the shot put with 
a throw of 11.95 m (39' 2.5"). 
Senior Karoline Evans finished 
up the scoring in the field events 
by capturing fourth place in the 
weight throw.
Rounding out the major scor
ing of the meet, the womens 
distance medley relay team 
took third place with a time of 
12:37.06, holding off a Brandeis 
team that was only fractions 
of a second behind them. This 
team was led by Garvue and 
Sikora and also included firstyear runners Shauna Orman and 
Ashley Bakelmun. This diversity 
between ages gives the team 
potential for the future. Overall, 
the Lady Tartans placed fifth out 
of seven teams with 44 points. 
This was a new team points 
record for the womens indoor 
track and field team.
Iyer, Staloch lead list of Tartan athletes of the week
by Christian DAndrea
Sports Editor
Mens Basketball: Clayton Barlow-Wilcox  Barlow-Wilcox, a junior forward, led 
the Tartans in scoring in both their games 
this week, chipping in 21 points against 
Case Western and 14 against Rochester. 
He added 12 rebounds and five steals as 
the Tartans split away games and made a 
strong case for an at-large NCAA tourna
ment bid.
Womens Basketball: Lisa Seacat 
Senior tri-captain Seacat continued her 
solid play this week, averaging 12 points, 
seven rebounds, two steals and two as
sists. More importantly, she had only one 
turnover out of the 55 committed by the 
team over the past two games and shot over 
57 percent from the field.
Mens Track: Nik Bonaddio  Gradu
ate student Bonaddio makes his second 
appearance on this list in two weeks af
ter winning three UAA Championships. He 
won the 400m event with a time of 49.15 
and then came back to win as part of the 
UAA champion 4x400 and distance medley 
relay teams.
Womens Track: Jocelyn Sikora 
The junior contributed 18 of the Tartans 
44 points in the UAA Championships. She 
took second in the mile and placed fourth in 
the 800m run. She was also the anchor leg 
of the womens distance medley relay team, 
which placed third overall.
Mens Tennis: Carl Yang  Yang, a
senior, was the only member of the Tartans 
to post victories in both singles and doubles 
action this week. He helped lead the mens 
tennis team to victory in their first match of 
the spring season.
Womens Tennis: Mona Iyer and Amy 
Staloch  Iyer, a sophomore, and Staloch, 
a first-year, led the 15th ranked womens 
tennis team to a 9-0 victory over Case West
ern. The two won their singles matches by 
a combined score of 241 and then teamed 
up to beat Cases number one doubles team 8-1.
Roller Hockey: Matt Salac (Tier I) and 
Joe Plitz (Tier II)  Salac, a first-year 
forward, had a productive game vs. CCAC 
South, notching a goal and four assists in 
the Tartans 9-3 victory. Plitz, a graduate 
student, had seven goals in two games this 
week. He leads all Carnegie Mellon scorers 
with 16 goals.
Marcus Gho/Photo Staff
Sophomore Mona Iyer won in both singles and doubles matchups this week.
I

---------------------------------------------------

I IS/I
NEWS
Administration
Intramural Director:
Mike Mastroianni 
x8-2214 or mma8@
Assistant Director:
Mike Grzywinski 
x8-2214 or immike@
Secretary: Amy Kiryk 
X8-2053 or kiryk@
IM Board President:
Derek Ritchea dritchea@
Womens President:
Kimberly Lackner
Important Dates
Thursday March 17 - Rosters 
are due for softball, co-rec soft
ball, individual table tennis, and 
individual call pool in the IM 
Office by 4:30 pm.
Thursday March 17 - IM Night
- All basketball finals (Minors, 
Intermediate, Majors, and 
Women) start at 4:45 pm in 
Skibo Gym.
Sports in Season
Basketball - The playoffs started 
yesterday and will continue 
through the rest of this week. 
They will wrap up the week after 
spring break.
Team and Co-Rec Badminton -
The seasons have started. 
Schedules for both are available 
in the IM Office. Please circle the 
winning team on the sheet left 
with the equipment.
Pinochle - The schedules are 
available in the IM Office. Please 
report all scores to the IM Office.
Indoor Soccer - The season is 
underway in the Arena Room. 
Schedules are available in the 
IM Office.
All Sports Totals 
Men
1. PiKA3258
2. Beta 2575
3. ThetaXi 2067
4. KDR1558
5. Brutal Ruckus 1525
Women
1. Fresh Meat 2383
2. Hoopers 2167
3. Pioneers 1533
4. Kappa 1016
Sports
Mens tennis opens spring season with 4-3 victory
Senior Boris Sofman serves during his match against Case Saturday.
by Christian DAndrea
Sports Editor
Strong singles play locked up a 
4-3 victory over Case Western for 
Carnegie Mellon this weekend. 
Victories by Boris Sofman, Carl 
Yang, Rex Carazo-Zapetis, and 
Jordan Koslosky sealed a Tartan 
victory before the doubles teams 
had a chance to play. It was the 
teams third consecutive victory 
over the Spartans and solidifies 
their spot as one of Division Ills 
top 25 teams.
Cases top three players were 
all very tough, said first-year 
Andrew Clearfield. Theyve got 
big serves and play pretty sol
idly, but after them they couldnt 
really match up with us past that. 
We won this with our depth, like I 
think well do all year.
Sofman, a senior who is ranked 
23rd in the region, started 
off the match with a 7-6, 6-1 
victory over Cases top ranked 
player Steve Hsu. After losses 
from the two and three seeds 
Clearfield and first-year Andrew 
Kuhn, the Tartans dominated the 
next three singles matchups.
Sophomore Koslosky won the 
match for Carnegie Mellon with 
a 6-3, 6-3 victory in the sixth 
singles seed matchup. This gave
the team their fourth point in the 
best of seven format. Case won 
a final point for winning two of 
three doubles matches to bring 
the final score to 43. Though 
this final point had no outcome 
at the time, it could be important 
when the newest version of the 
Division III NCAA rankings are 
released. Currently, the Tartans 
are ranked 23rd. This ranking 
could be a factor in deciding 
whether or not the team qualifies 
for the NCAA championships.
This victory over a tough 
Spartan team should help their 
cause in the rankings. Theyre 
a lot tougher than youd think, 
said Koslosky. Coach told us that 
wed have to play solid to beat 
them. It feels good to be going 
into spring break 3-0.
For spring break, the team will 
travel to Orlando, Fla to take on 
some difficult opponents, includ
ing Rochester, Wheaton (111.), and 
Ursinus. The bulk of their season 
is coming up this spring, although 
they'll only have one more home 
game, in April, until the fall of 
2005. The team will be keeping 
a close on their NCAA rankings 
in order to secure a national 
tournament bid. Theyll be back 
in action March 5 to take on 
Piedmont and the University of 
the South.
28 February 2005 THE TARTAN Alu
Womens tennis breezes 
past Case Western at home
---------------------------------------- won 8-3 in second doubles, while
Otsuka and senior Meredith Fry 
won 8-1 in the third position. In 
the top doubles slot, the duo of 
Iyer and Staloch, fresh from fin
ishing second in a national tour
nament, continued their run of 
dominance by taking out Hsieh 
and Anne Dennhardt, 8-1.
For Staloch, the win was espe
cially meaningful because it was 
the first team victory of her career. 
It was great for all of us to get in 
and win together, she said. It 
feels good to win as a team, and 
I think that sort of thing brings 
us closer. Also, its nice to get a 
break from practicing every day 
and hitting with the same people, 
to get a more competitive envi
ronment.
The women now look forward 
to the annual Spring Break trip to 
Florida, where they play a daunt
ing schedule that includes 23rdranked Wheaton College as well 
as the top-ranked team in the 
country, Emory University.
Hwang, for one, sees the trip 
as a win-win scenario, despite the 
tough competition. Playing such 
good teams, especially Emory, itll 
be a great challenge, she said. I 
dont have [unreasonably] high 
hopes, but I think we can maybe 
get a few points against them at 
least.
Staloch agreed: It will be great 
to be outside every day play
ing and getting better, and no 
matter how we do, it will be a fun 
week. Also, the weather will be 
amazing.
by Andrew Clearfield
Staffwriter
If there was any doubt that the 
Carnegie Mellon womens tennis 
team could overcome the loss of 
three starters from the fall season 
because of a variety of injuries 
and other circumstances, their 
dismantling of Case Western 
Reserve University Saturday 
afternoon at the TopSpin 
Academy in Pittsburgh forcefully 
dismissed that notion as absurd.
The Tartans dominated every 
match, winning 9-0 without 
dropping so much as a set. In 
number one singles, first-year 
Amy Staloch finished off Cindy 
Hsieh in less than 45 minutes, 
6-0, 6-0. In second and third 
singles, Mona Iyer, the nations 
40th-ranked player, and Allison 
Liu, advanced by identical 6-0, 
6-1 scores. Grace Hwang, Kavita 
Shah and Mai Otsuka also won 
in singles.
Head Coach Andrew Girard, 
in his second year at the helm, 
applauded the team for sustain
ing its focus against a significant
ly weaker team. We focused and 
took care of the matches so it was 
a nice way to start the season, 
he said. Overall, we tried out 
some doubles lineups and they 
did pretty well, so it was a good 
warm up for the important spring 
break trip we have next week.
The new doubles combinations 
excelled despite their inexperi
ence together and won in con
vincing fashion. Liu and Hwang
Mens track sets 10 
school records at UAAs
by Christian DAndrea
Sports Editor
Strong performances across 
the board propelled the mens 
track team to a second-place fin
ish at the UAA Championships. 
Bolstered by seven first-place fin
ished out of the 20 total events, 
the Tartans scored 113 points but 
still finished 46 points behind the 
champion Washington Bears.
Close finishes were the standard 
for the team Saturday. Graduate 
student Nik Bonaddio captured 
the 400m run by only 18/100
seconds. Junior Dana Irrer missed 
winning the 3000m run by a rela
tively miniscule 27/100 seconds, 
something generally unheard of 
in long races. Also in that race, 
senior Ethan Coffey placed sixth 
buried in a pack where the three 
runners were separated by less 
than .8 of a second.
In the distance medley relay, 
the A team won the 2.5 mile event 
by under half a second.
Both Carnegie Mellon and 
Washington, who placed second, 
ran faster than the previous UAA
See TRACK, page All
Men fall short at Rochester
ment glory is that most other 
conferences in Division III have 
separate tournaments to decide 
who will get an automatic bid. 
Because of this, teams that have 
had better seasons statistically 
but were upset in their divisional 
tournaments are more likely to 
receive one on the few bids.
Carnegie Mellon finished 
the season with a record-tying 
18 wins. Coach Wingen is proud 
of his players, despite the out
come. We battled them. We 
just didnt make enough plays 
or shots.
Earlier in the week, the 
Tartans defeated Case Western 
to create the do-or-die scenario 
on Saturday. Behind a strong 
performance to start the second 
half, the men pulled out to what 
was an insurmountable lead and 
held on for an 87-80 victory.
The mens team had difficulty 
figuring out how to turn around 
the Spartan dominance on the 
boards early on. Despite shooting 
nearly 50 percent, they trailed by 
two points at the half, mostly due 
to a 22-14 rebounding advantage 
for Case. Case had the Tartans on 
their heels for much of the first 
period, putting up considerably 
more shots and forcing the team 
to play pressure defense.
The second half was a whole 
different story, as the team came 
alive on the boards and came up 
with a plan to stop the Spartans 
free-shooting offense. Carnegie 
Mellon pulled away with a 
14-4 run to open the half and 
held on from there. They expand
ed their lead to 15 with five 
minutes left, and fended off a 
Case attack that pulled the home 
team within five points with only 
35 seconds left in the game.
The Tartans played strong 
team basketball, with four 
players finishing the game in 
double-figure scoring. BarlowWilcox and Maurer had 21 and
11 points, respectively, while 
senior guards Michael Divens 
and Jason Walters had 19 and 
15. Divens led the team in 
rebounding with nine.
It is unclear where or when 
the Tartans will be in action next, 
but though their regular season 
is over, they will still have games 
to play. After their best season in 
decades, theyll look to continue 
their strong play against whatev
er opponents are given to them.
by Christian DAndrea
Sports Editor
An inside jumper with the 
shot clock running down all but 
smashed the NCAA tournament 
dreams of the mens basketball 
team on Saturday. The University 
of Rochester held off a Carnegie 
Mellon comeback to win the 
University Athletic Association 
championship. With the win, 
Rochester advances to the NCAA 
Division III national tournament, 
while the Tartans are forced to sit 
and hope for an at-large bid.
Carnegie Mellon had trailed 
for the majority of the game 
before Eliot Gorens layup pulled 
the Tartans within three points 
of the University of Rochester 
Yellowjackets with only 45 sec
onds to play in the game. The 
Tartans kept their opponents 
from any open shots until there 
were only three seconds left on 
the shot clock. Senior Rochester 
guard Brendan McAllister, a 
Pittsburgh native who was hav
ing the game of his life against 
his hometown team, ran through 
the lane and shot the ball from 
ten feet out. When the shot slid 
through the basket, the game 
was sealed.
Despite a last ditch effort, 
the mens , team fell, 62-57 at 
Rochester. Had they won, they 
would have sealed an automatic 
invitation to the NCAA tourna
ment. Now, they are more likely 
to be a high seed in the upcom
ing Eastern College Athletic 
Conference (ECAC) brackets.
The team played excellent 
defense against, but had trouble 
hitting their shots on the other 
end of the court. They shot 
under 39 percent from the floor 
in the game and allowed their 
opponents to hold a significant 
rebounding edge. Most notably, 
the Yellowjackets were able to 
keep All-UAA junior forward 
Nate Maurer scoreless through 
the first half.
This combination helped 
Rochester build a lead that 
they would never surrender in 
the second half. Each time the 
Tartans pulled close, McAllister 
responded with clutch shooting 
from behind the three-point line. 
He finished with a career-high
24 points, including a careerbest six three-pointers. Junior
Junior forward Clayton Barlow-Wilcox battles for a rebound against 
Rochester Saturday.
Clayton Barlow-Wilcox led the 
Tartans with 14 points and eight 
rebounds.
The loss left many of the 
Tartan players disappointed and 
frustrated with their NCAA tour
nament chances. It doesnt look 
like well make it, said junior
forward Bary Dunn. There are 
only seven at-large bids in the 
48-team tournament, and they 
[the media and coaches] have 
been hating on the UAA lately. 
This conference is filled with 
great teams. Another factor 
against Tartan NCAA tourna
Tartan Sports Standings
Mens BasketballWomens BasketballSwimming
Last WeekLast WeekLast Week
W vs. Case 87-80L vs. Case 43-81Men: Not in action
L vs. Rochester 57-62L vs. Rochester 47-64Women: Not in action
Final UAA StandingsConf.OverallFinal UAA StandingsConf.OverallNCAA Division III Top Times  Men
Rochester12-221-4Brandeis11-321-4200 Freestyle  1. 1:39.27 Pearson, Chris
Carnegie Mellon10-418-6Washington10-420-5500 Freestyle  2. 4:30.54 Pearson, Chris
Washington8-616-9NYU10-420-5200 Butterfly  1. 1:50.90 Pearson, Chris
Brandis7-714-11Chicago9-516-9 3. 1:52.63 Krzeminski, David
Chicago6-810-15Rochester7-715-10200 Free Relay  2.1:23.46 Carnegie Mellon
NYU6-816-9Case6-811-13(Krzeminski, Powell, Bailey, Pearson)
Emory6-815-10Emory3-117-18400 Free Relay  1. 3:03.82 Carnegie Mellon
Case1-135-20Carnegie Mellon0-144-21(Krzeminski, Powell, Bailey, Pearson)
Indoor Track and Field
Last Week
Men: at UAA Championships  2. Carnegie Mellon (113) 
Women-, at UAA Championships  5. Carnegie Mellon (44)
All-UAA Performances - Men
55m Hurdles  2.7.98 Bannister, Nicholas 
200m  1. 22.19 Verbosky, Russel 
400m  1. 49.15 Bonaddio, Nik 
3000m  2. 8:27.47 Irrer, Dana 
4x400m Relay 1. 3:19.13 CMU A
Weight Throw  1. 16.96m Matta, Tom 
Shot Put  1. 15.14m Matta, Tom 
High Jump 1. 6-02.75m Dalka, Matt 
Mens Distance Medley 1. 10:11.78 CMU A
I

---------------------------------------------------

O C: in r-r I ) r---------------------------------------------------

gallery.
CONTENTS.
VbyyAcor di ngAthetC dllBr
COMICKAZESTAFF
Max Kaufmann explains the essence of comics.ofrymacnr kiicyrd .Bradford L. Yankiver
oBcaudwc,wsgcri .J.T. TrollmanCover by Lev Khesin
Yh,hpc,p oBcaud .Franklin WilliamsThe Tartan
Fctteuf oBcaud .Amanda FlynnBox 1017vllclah,a Fctteuf oBcaud .Michelle BovaCarnegie Mellon University
Volumeo9su:cyl oBcaud .Greg PrichardPittsburgh, PA 15289-1017
Spice up your week.Fguau oBcaud .Robert Kaminskiwww.thetartan.orgvda oBcaud .Danielle Saudino
suLP Yh,hprd .Arthur ODwyer 2005 The Tartan
FduBmyacu, Yh,hprd .Evan Sundwick
bhPuma Yh,hprd .Alexander Meseguer
,9omI s1owmolu .utha9u
Former con reveals how he went from criminal to 
consultant.
rnu gom2 8nFby F0 5a9mull
Drama students get an opportunity to display their 
talents.
CiumMmw fMwnh 5lo2 59udMub
The Effects of Gamma Rays on Man-in-the-Moon 
Marigolds comes to Chosky.
SALSA Show Sizzles
SALSA puts on an entertaining and educational dance 
show.
Uuoah2 8homeo9eyN Valha9ol cmnM1MhF9yW
Western beauty standards explained and reviewed.
Indian comedian Vijai Nathan performed in McConomy 
Auditorium last Friday. Nathan was brought by AB Comedy, 
the Women's Center, and the Co-op.

---------------------------------------------------

turntable.
The Smiths play songs for sulking
The third installment of Izzy Gs
Artist: The Smiths 
Album: Hatful of Hollow 
Label: Sire Records 
Year released: 1984
Album sounds like: Sophisticated lush pop, with 
occasional guitar innovations, for the literary 
crowd  songs for sulking.
The Smiths may sound like any other band today, 
but during the mid-1980s in England they must 
have sounded very refreshing. During the early 
80s, mainstream England was leaving the heavy 
punk-rock sound of the Sex Pistols and The 
Clash in favor of punk-influenced but more poporiented music. NewWave was the all-inclusive 
label, just like alternative would be ten years 
later. Leading that forefront in the UK were The 
Smiths.
What might be amazing in todays context is 
that bands such as U2 echoed The Smiths style. 
Listen to the album Boy by U2 and you can hear 
Morrissey influence Bono in I Will Follow. 
In the U.S., bands like R.E.M. must have been 
drinking the same water before their debut. 
1983s Murmur was bare-bones in sound, concise, 
but not jagged like the punk-rock whirls of the 
late 1970s; instead, a carefully constructed pop 
sound was created.
All these superstars of the 80s could sustain a 
note for a while. Morrissey was especially notable 
for this. Yet, no mention of The Smiths would be 
complete without mention of their lyrical terrain. 
Hatful of Hollow is a compilation of singles, Bsides, and appearances at the BBC show hosted 
by John Peel. During one of the Peel sessions, 
The Smiths recorded, among many songs, Still 
111, which contains Morrisseys comical sense 
along with his customary moping. The lyrical 
combination has made the Moz (as hes often 
called) and The Smiths many lifelong fans.
In Still 111, Morrissey sings, I decree today that 
life is simply taking and not giving/England is 
mine and it owes me a living/Ask me why and Ill 
spit in your eye ... Does the body rule the mind or 
does the mind rule the body? I dunno.
One of the early Smiths singles to go up the 
charts was William, It Was Really Nothing. In 
this song Morrissey sings, The rain falls hard 
on a humdrum town/This town has dragged
Underground Classic Records
* * T V 1  f * 0 I i S W
Courtesy of askmeaskmeaskme.com
you down ... and everybodys got to live their 
life/And God knows Ive got to live mine/How 
can you stay with a fat girl wholl say/Would you 
like to marry me/And if you like you can buy the 
ring?/She doesnt care about anyone ... except 
herself.
Of course, the most famous Smiths song is far 
and away How Soon is Now? The song is well 
known for its guitar effects, occasionally making 
a TV commercial from time to time. Nothing says 
sports cars like The Smiths, but thats beside the 
point. In this song, Morrissey sings, I am the 
son and the heir/Of a shyness that is criminally 
vulgar/I am the son and the heir/Of nothing in 
particular.
The Smiths, who have legions of fans, won even 
more fans by singing about Meat is Murder. Its 
not too surprising that a British band would sing 
about pain and sadness so well; after all, it might 
be in their genes. When early British rockers 
started creating rock music in the 60s, they 
started singing covers of American blues records. 
Most recently, Belle & Sebastian took the critical 
and popular limelight by taking the songs for 
when youre down formula into a work of art.
After all, its hard to capture pain and make it 
into beautiful, flowing music. The Smiths are one 
of the few bands that did just this.
Next on the CD changer: Fugazi or Morphine.
awtegy sh,uef 
vpe$tbpgt
Vo9muwMu 
slomot
50 YEARS AGO 
March 1,1955
For the second year in a row, The Tartan sponsored a Cover Girl Contest for the 
Pittsburgh Press. The contest sought to find the prettiest coed in the tri-state area and 
was open to all women at Carnegie Tech. Contestants submitted a photograph to the 
Universitys Public Relations office and were judged by members of the Carnegie Tech 
faculty.
25 YEARS AGO 
March 4,1980
Student Body President Scott Sibley resigned after 512 students signed a petition 
demanding his impeachment. Senate Chair Ralph Sherman assumed the presidency for 
the remainder of the term. Senate then discussed whether Sibley should be required to 
pay for a trip he had taken to a conference in Washington, D.C. Sibley had been invited 
as Student Body President but went after the petition had been submitted.
1 O YEARS AGO '
February 27,1995
Student Senate re-examined former Student Body President Declan McCullaghs 
financial practices after he resigned. Although Senate had already completed one 
examination, the new inquiry looked into activity in his account after it had been frozen. 
McCullagh had transferred money from his Student Body President account to his own 
CampusXpress account despite being under scrutiny for financial malfeasance.
5 YEARS AGO 
February 28, 2000
Students, faculty, and staff formed an anti-sweatshop task force to look into human 
rights violations by companies that produced items bearing the Carnegie Mellon logo. 
Licensing coordinator Jay Marano hoped to work closely with the group to produce 
a code of conduct prohibiting sweatshop labor from being used in the production of 
Carnegie Mellon apparel.
1 YEAR AGO 
March 1,2004
Carnegie Mellon announced a $150 yearly fee to support technology on campus, 
something that had not been done before. The money would go towards upgrading the 
existing wireless network and improving computing services, among other computerrelated costs.
2et4 0.gtuef 
Vgtwcffgy 2efe.gt
Tvm
VbyyAcor 28 ngAthetC 2005.

---------------------------------------------------

on campus.____________
Catch Me If You Can ex-con speaks at Heinz Hall
-'rank Abagnale shares how he went from con to consultant for the FBI
]on man turned Fortune 500 security consultant Frank 
ibagnale has gone from prison-hopping in his teens to 
illing Heinz Hall in a lecture series this past Wednesday, 
ibagnale was the real-life character who was the subject 
if the 2002 blockbuster movie Catch Me If You Can 
lirected by Steven Spielbergbut his life was more than 
two-hour Hollywood blockbuster.
abagnale was brought to speak through the Pittsburgh 
ipeakers series, presented this year by Robert Morris 
Jniversity. This is the third season of an annual series 
hat brings well-known individuals, from Henry 
jssinger to Walter Cronkite, for interesting speeches in 
yhich they share stories from their lives and personal 
xperiences.
ibagnale began his talk with a rapid-fire introduction of 
he most important event of his young life and the event 
hat began his travels around the world. He described his 
xperience being called to a courtroom and discovering 
hat his parents were getting a divorce. What was most 
raumatic for the young man, sixteen at the time, was 
he judges demand that he select either his mother or 
lis father to hold custody. At that moment, Abagnale 
urned around, ran out of the courtroom, and didnt stop 
unning for another five years. According to Abagnale 
back in the mid-1960s running away was a very popular 
hing for teenagers, though most teens did not become 
nternational con artists within weeks of leaving home.
'he stories of Abagnales criminal exploits were first 
ecounted in a book, Catch Me If You Can: The True Story 
f a Real Fake by Stan Redding and Frank Abagnale, 
tublished in 1980. At the time, young director Steven 
ipielberg fell in love with the story, bought the rights, and 
hen left them on the shelf for 15 years. When Abagnale 
irst heard that Hollywood was considering turning the 
ook into a film, he said, I was not very pleased and 
xtremely apprehensive. He was concerned that the film 
night glamorize what he now believes to be immoral 
xploits and he was worried that his three sons would 
xperience trouble as a result. Following a screening, 
lowever, he reported that he was extremely pleased, 
imply blessed ... Steven Spielberg went out of his way to 
lot glorify my crimes, just tell my story. These are kind 
vords, considering that Abagnale received no money 
rom the film.
/lany parts of the movie were surprisingly true, according
o Abagnale. When he was captured by the police, 
abagnale was printing checks on a Heidelberg printing 
ress that was over 40 feet long, requiring scaffolding 
lown both sides. In the movie, Spielberg reproduced 
his scene from Abagnales life exactly. Additionally, the
story of Abagnale calling the FBI agent on his case every 
Christmas was true  although Abagnale did not call 
out of loneliness, but because with very little prompting 
Abagnale could get the agent so riled up he would reveal 
details of how much they knew. For the movie, Spielberg 
even went to the same French prison  still in operation
 and the same cell in which Abagnale had been kept to 
shoot the scene with Leonardo DiCaprio.
However, not everything in Abagnales life was as 
glamorous as it may have appeared from the movie. 
Abagnale admitted that he cried himself to sleep every 
night until the age of 19, missing his family and exhausted 
by the experience of acting 24 hours a day. Pretending 
to be ten years older than he was, Abagnale spent his 
teenage years completely isolated from people his own 
age. While pretending to be a doctor, Abagnale admitted, 
he was terrified of someones actually calling upon his 
skills and his killing another person through inaction.
After being captured, Abagnale went to a French prison 
where he went from a weight of 198 pounds to 109 
pounds. Even after French prison, the film does not 
mention that he went to Swedish prison and then spent 
four more years in a United States federal penitentiary in 
Georgia. During Abagnales stay in the French prison, his 
father died falling down a flight of stairs: Abagnale would 
never have a chance to see him again.
Abagnale finally made parole, four years into a twelve year 
sentence, with the support of Carl Hanratty. Hanratty, the 
FBI agent who captured Abagnale, helped on the condition 
that Abagnale work for the FBI investigating cases of 
forgery and fraud. Two years later, on an undercover 
assignment in Houston, Texas, Abagnale broke cover 
when he explained to the woman who would be his wife, 
not only that he was with the FBI but all the reasons why 
he was working for them. What is absent from the movie 
is how Frank Abagnale has moved on with his life; he has 
three sons and lives with his wife in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
In his lecture, he stressed that the most important thing 
in his life is his family, saying they are the last thing you 
see, the last thing you think about and the first thing you 
think about in the morning. He understands his own life 
as a story about divorce and how devastating it can be to 
some people. He tries to live his life now to be a good 
husband, a good father, and a good daddy.
Abagnale has worked for the FBI for 25 years, all that time 
without accepting pay. Originally brought on as an expert 
in forgery, he now specializes in identity theft and has 
worked as a consultant for 65 percent of all Fortune 500 
companies. He believes that the crimes of forging checks
and faking identification are 4000 times easier today 
than 40 years ago when I did it, thanks to computers, 
the Internet, and cheap laser printers. He suggested that 
private citizens protect themselves by hiring a credit 
monitoring service that will notify the subscriber 24 
hours a day of any suspicious activity. Abagnale also only 
uses one pen for signing checks, the Uniball Signo 207 
gel pen; the pen uses a pigment-based ink that bleeds 
into the paper, preventing check-washing and other 
manipulation that has followed Abagnale from crime 
to prime time.
Boa rdpvvde 
sdeinagpiaeu Btaidn
CLASSIFIEDS.
FOR RENT OR SALE.
Sq. Hill near Wilkins and Wightman --- 3 bedroom, 
1 bath, second floor duplex with LR/DR, completely 
equipped Kitchen. Laundry and Storage in base
ment. Window Air Conditioners, partial carpeted, 
street or off street parking, available July 1st. One 
year lease $1200.00/month + utilities, two year 
or longer lease with rent abatements. Pets will 
be considered upon request. Pittsburgh Manager 
412.466.0835 (leave message). If emergency 
800.782.6559.
NORTH OAKLAND. 1BR furnished, mature or 
graduate students only. Newly remodeled; very 
safe building; heat and water included. $575. Call 
412.682.1194 OR 412.731.0450. For rent squir
rel hill. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 bedroom houses. Excellent 
locations. Reasonable rents. 412.422.8947.
SQ HILL STUDIO & 1 BEDROOM 
Clean and modern studio apartment with Eat-in 
Kitchen, newer w/w, on-site laundry. Located only 2 
miles from campus! Heat included! $495 + e 
1BR apartment on Beechwood Blvd.Equiped 
kitchen, w/w, A/C, On-site laundry $500 + g/e. 
Pride Realty 888.274.6536. See more details on 
our website www.pride-realty.com.
Summer and/or Fall rentals. Furnished studio and 1 
bedroom apartments in secure apartment building. 
Airconditioning. Close to CMU. On CMU shuttle 
route. Starting at $350. Call 412.687.0732
4VbyyAcor di ngAthetC dllBr

---------------------------------------------------

___on stage.______________
John Wells Studio Theatre puts on annual festival
New Works Festival provides educational experience for drama
Each spring, Carnegie Mellons School of Drama produces 
a festival of new works in Purnells John Wells Studio 
Theatre. What distinguishes these plays from any other 
plays that you might see in the Wells, Rauh, or Chosky 
theaters throughout the course of the year is that these 
plays are works in progress. However, not all shows in 
Purnell are created equal. At any given time there may 
be a graduate one-act, a company show, or a mainstage 
musical (or opera!) in performance, and it is in the best 
interest of the audience member to know what to expect.
Although you may see the same company of actors in 
all of these shows and theaters, it is important, if youre 
unfamiliar with the system, to understand that the nature 
of one show is very different from the next. The shows in 
the mainstage season are carefully chosen by committee 
over a period of several months. These shows charge for 
audience admission, have budgets that are rumored to 
reach as high as $19,000, and utilize the design talents of 
both undergraduate and graduate students. Additionally, 
these shows are always directed by a faculty member or a 
special guest director. When you go to see a show in the 
Chosky, you know that a great deal of thought, planning, 
and work has gone into the production.
The shows in the Rauh, however, work with a different 
set of tools. These shows may be directed by seniors in 
the undergraduate directing program or by graduate 
directors, and have casts of both junior and senior 
musical-theater students. The lighting, sets, sound, and 
costume design are also done by undergraduates in their 
junior and senior years. The shows in the Rauh Theatre 
have budgets far below the mainstage shows (some 
around $175), and therefore must rely on minimal sets 
and costumes pulled from stock since they do not charge 
for admission.
As if that comparison didnt provide enough examples 
of the discrepancies between the shows in Purnell, the 
productions in the Wells Studio Theatre should be taken 
into consideration. The productions done in this theater 
are unlike any others in the school. In the fall, the theater 
is home to a series of graduate one-acts (so called 
because they are directed, but not written, by Carnegie 
Mellon grad students.)
Throughout the spring semester the Wells Studio Theatre 
is home to the New Works Festival, something that is 
experimented with in the summer months as well. As it is 
described in a 2004 School of Drama press release: The 
New Works Festival is an arrangement of productions 
of scripts by students in the School of Dramas graduate 
playwriting program.... The festival has become a crucial 
step in the development process for writers because they 
have the chance to see how an audience responds to 
their new plays ... it is designed to help writers prepare 
their scripts for productions in regional theatres around the 
country.
Although the new works have no budget whatsoever and 
must rely on rehearsal furniture for sets and the actors 
own clothes as costumes, seeing or working on one of 
these shows can be a valuable experience for everyone 
involved. Not only do the playwrights benefit from being 
able to workshop their scripts, but the directors and actors 
have the chance to originate a role and become involved 
in the scripts evolution. The playwright works closely 
with the cast and director throughout the entire project 
and even has a chance to rewrite during the run of the 
show after gauging the audiences and actors responses.
These plays are valuable  or, more appropriately, 
invaluable  for audience members as well. The New
Works Festival is an opportunity to see cutting edge 
theater, get a first peek at never-before-produced scripts 
and see actors and directors tackle challenging and 
sometimes problematic tasks. Take the new work that is 
currently playing, for example: Judas Jones, written by 
Colin Acock and directed by Laura Gross. This is a perfect 
example of a challenging project for everyone involved. 
The story is that of a high-school basketball player from 
a small town who is being pushed from many sides to get 
up and get out. He is feeling pressure from his mother, 
his basketball coach, and his English teacher, all of whom 
he deeply wants to please, and all of whom undergo 
struggles of their own.
The roles provide stretches for all of the actors, none of 
whom are playing characters of their own ages and all 
of whom have to embrace radical circumstances and 
situations. The storyline is not a simple one, but reaches 
many dramatic climaxes and includes some rather 
abstract scenes in which actors double as a lighthouse, 
the moon, and the sun, with whom the lead character 
converses.
Needless to say, this is not a play one would see every day. 
It took risks and certainly had its share of successes and 
failures, but most importantly it was a learning process 
 a tool for education  and it should be viewed as 
such. It is useless to compare one of the new works to a 
mainstage musical, or to any other show, for that matter. 
In order to appreciate the productions offered throughout 
Purnell and the students who call it home, it is necessary 
to understand their inherent differences and the process 
behind each.
'uh,,h xadhLL 
'm,cud xahiiRdcard
GET AHEAD OR CATCH UPSUMMER COURSES GIVE YOU AN EDGE
Take the lead with 
University of Pittsburgh Summer Sessions
? 4-week, 6-week, 12-week, or full-term sessions.
? Courses from more than 100 academic departments
? Small class sizes
? Affordable tuition rates
The smartest way to 
spend your summer...
? Currently enrolled students
? Students from other colleges
or universties home for the summer
? Adults continuing their education
University of Pittsburgh
PITTSBURGH
BRADFORD
GREENSBURG
JOHNSTOWN
TITUSVILLE
REGISTER FOR SUMMER CLASSES AT THE UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH
FOURTH FLOOR, CATHEDRAL OF LEARNING  412-624-6600  WWW.SOLUTIONS.PITT.EDU/~SUMMER
VbyyAcor 28 ngAthetC 2005.

---------------------------------------------------

__on stage.____________
First of three plays in repertory opens today
The Effect of Gamma Rays on Man-in-the-Moon Marigolds conies to the Chosky
For the past several weeks, an intimate cast of five has 
gathered to rehearse for the first of three plays that will 
open in March. All three of the plays are by American 
writers, and all three center on this years production 
theme: science. The Effect of Gamma Rays on Man-in-theMoon Marigolds will be the first to open, and its preview 
show is today; the official opening night is this Thursday 
night. The play, which was written by the late Paul Zindel, 
is being directed by professor Geoffrey Hitch of the School 
of Drama. Before the spring break begins, this small-scale 
cast and multiple behind-the-scenes parties will bring to 
the Chosky a play which explores the impact of hope on 
even the most troubled lives.
The Effect of Gamma Rays on Man-in-the-Moon Marigolds 
tells the story of a young girl working on a project for her 
science class who must contend with the horrific home 
life caused by her mother. The Tartan was allowed the 
rare experience to take a glimpse at the cast in action 
during one of their final rehearsals before opening night. 
The play is performed in the round and thus the set is 
barren of the usual background scenery found in other 
productions.
The play centers around young Tillie, played by Claudia 
Duran, as she begins to become engaged with science 
via her project on marigold mutations. Tillies family 
consists of her troubled, alcoholic mother Beatrice 
(Kylee Rousselot), her mentally ill sister Ruth (Kat 
Mandeville) and a rabbit named Peter. (All of the
aforementioned actresses are senior drama majors.) It 
is performed with powerfully raw emotions as Tillie is 
forced to contend with her mother, whose own troubled 
youth has turned her into a bitter, negative parent. Hitch 
described how Tillies opening monologue details her 
involvement in science, provoked by her teacher Mr. 
Goodman. The audience sees her in a white lab coat; 
Goodmans influential words have made her believe that 
she, and all atoms, are special.
Hitch has been at Carnegie Mellon University for 
13 years, and his list of directing credentials include last 
years musical, The Assassins, as well as over 150 other 
productions. Hitch described the main theme of the play 
as survival and success despite negative reinforcement 
and added that being born into a bad situation does not 
kill you. The play focuses on Tillies belief that some 
mutations, like the ones that the gamma rays created 
in her marigolds, will be benefical and beautiful ones. 
Tillie, Hitch said, is our mutant flower.
Hitch also noted that Mom supplies the negative 
radiation, which certainly comes out strongly in the play. 
Throughout its course Tillie must overcome her mothers 
abusive language and discouragement. When asked about 
a favorite moment in the play, Hitch said, Another 
moment I feel rings very, very true is when Beatrice says 
to Tillie, You want me to look like you on that stage, 
ugly little you? Theres something in there that makes it 
make sense. Hitch added that this blatant verbal abuse
VbyyAcor 28 ngAthetC 2005.
contrasts well against the passion Tillie shows for 
science. Almost all of Tillies monologues are really 
upbeat about science. [Its about an] unquenchable 
passion for improvement, an unquenchable desire to 
do something.
Rebecca Dove Baillie, a masters student in drama and 
the stage manager for the production, has a similar 
feeling about the meaning of Gamma Rays. It seems a 
little dated now [but] theres still a good story in there 
for getting out of a bad situation. Even though you 
grow up with sort of monster for a mother you can still 
grow up to be something kind of fantastic.
Because it was written in the 60s, Hitch also spoke 
about adjustments that were made to the play, partly 
because of its older writing style: The 60s realism that 
it was written in is one of the reasons we wanted to go 
thematically rather than realistically.
Another addition is that the audience now will have a 
chance to see Tillie as an adult, rather than the original 
production, which Hitch said merely featured a voice
over of the older Tillie. What Im hoping to do is give 
people hope, said Hitch, who believes that seeing 
Tillie as her older, professional self will help drive this 
idea home.
One of the more lighthearted additions to the play is 
the live rabbit, Peter. Peter plays an instrumental role in 
the play as the subject of Ruths love and their mothers 
hatred. The bunny provoked a few complications, 
however, according to Dove. We really blocked the 
show and staged the whole show before the rabbit 
came to rehearsal, he said, and then he came and it 
changed the casts perspective on things. The casts 
reactions became more vivid due the presence of the 
live animal, according to Baillie.
When The Effect of Gamma Rays on Man-in-the-Moon 
Marigolds opens on Thursday evening, the cast will 
bring to life the highly emotional tale of a girl who 
overcomes her mothers anger. The play will open with 
a small cast of five women in drama ready to bring the 
message of hope to the play. And is the cast invested in 
their work? Hitch believes so. One of the most exciting 
moments in the rehearsal process was the moment 
when the actors [were] ... reinventing what I directed 
them to do. They are taking responsibility and taking 
charge. They end up picking the most insightful version 
[of what I give them].
Famlcooc kdPh 
bvvavihei raoogdA Btaidn
 6
t
i

---------------------------------------------------

on stage
SALSA show sizzles
Latin Dance and Martial Arts show displays blend of dances
Dancers and musicians journeyed through Latin 
American culture in song and dance on Wednesday, 
as SALSA, the Spanish and Latin Students Association, 
put on its first Latin Dance and Martial Arts show. Each 
masterfully executed performance was flavored with 
commentary on its origins in Central America or the 
Caribbean. Professional troupes performed traditional 
and contemporary dances, putting special emphasis 
on the origins of every one.
The audience first experienced the Argentine art of the 
tango. Known worldwide, the band, Tangueros de Ley, 
is an Argentine tango ensemble under the direction of 
clarinetist Julieta Ugartemendia. Ernesto Contend, 
on accordion, and Jeremy Sment, on bass, had 
the audience swaying in their seats as the 
two musicians played their melodies.
Contend had a presence about him 
onstage that captured the heart of 
the audience even though he never 
directly addressed them at any 
time.
Throughout the performance,
Julieta illustrated how the tango 
actually has African roots hidden 
within its Cuban origins and 
explained how different episodes 
in Cuban history had affected 
moods of dance and music, producing 
the tangos varying shades. Dancers 
accompanied the band and completed 
the performance, radiating the sensual feel 
of the tango.
The dancing continued with a performance from 
the Latin Dance Project. Robert Rogers, along with 
Rebecca Taksel, Merixa Moran, and Kimberly Caitlin, 
explained how Cuba, the Caribbean, and Hispaniola 
have all contributed lively dances to the American 
culture, before performing each one in turn. Roberts 
and Taksel explained to the audience the origins of 
dances such as merengue, salsa, and rhumba. The four 
performers illustrated the complex rhythms of their 
dances by having the audience clap out three different 
rhythms simultaneously. As the audience clapped, 
the three women danced stunningly, bringing their 
performance to a close.
The appropriately named Linda Danza directed the 
next company, the Salsa Ritmo, who showed off 
the different styles of dance prevalent in Cuba and 
the Caribbean. The first type of dance, known as 
Contra, involved one of the men in the group calling 
out moves and his five fellow dancers following his 
commands. Even though the leader called out moves
on the spot, the dance was quick and seamless, 
the couples continuously changing partners and 
executing complex moves as they went on. As a very 
sudden change of pace, members of the company 
then performed an upbeat mambo. Emily Weitkamp, 
a graduate student in mechanical engineering, and 
Uluc Saranli, a postdoctoral fellow in the Robotics 
Institute, grabbed the audiences attention with their 
fun, excited moves.
The closing of the performance was marked by Nego 
Gato, Inc., which means black cat in Portuguese. Led 
by Justin Laing, this performance included the Dances 
of the Orixa (pronounced or-EE-sha). The 
spectators were then treated to four 
traditional religious dances, each 
representative of a Brazilian 
deity: Oxum, goddess of
beauty and fresh waters; 
Obaluae, god of disease and 
illness; Iemanja, goddess 
of motherhood and salt 
waters; and Ogum, he 
who opens pathways. Each 
dance featured a single 
dancer portraying the 
appropriate religious figure, 
in decorative garb with his 
or her face covered, and was 
marked by a complex rhythm 
beat out by the two drummers.
This company then proceeded to 
explain the origins of the Capoeira, a 
Brazilian form of dance. This dance form was 
actually created by the African slaves brought over to 
Brazil. It began as a way for the African slaves to fight 
against their Portuguese masters. The Portuguese, 
of course, strictly forbade their slaves to practice any 
martial art, so the slaves cleverly designed their martial 
arts to resemble a dance that included kicks, sweeps, 
and takedowns. The speed, grace, and strength of this 
fighting form make it a formidable art form as well.
The audience was in an uproar. SALSA had pulled 
off their first Latin Dance and Martial Arts show 
marvelously. The spectators had learned much about 
Latin American culture through the origins of modernday dances. With SALSAs presentation, Latin dance 
seemed less like a simple fun activity, but rather like a 
mysterious art form. From the smooth and sexy tango 
to the exuberant and almost violent Capoeira, the 
audience was given a taste of Latin American culture.
OcBc WhddcaP 
'm,cud xahiiRdcard
5 Iclnct uniK.<mdrc*/.crnu.edu-inivli
movie
by evan sundwick, 
production manager
Highlander
Spuemuyeo2A go9tn E H PAJBAJEk
There can be only one. Highlander is one of the greatest cheesy 80s sci 
fi/fantasy movies you will ever see. Christopher Lambert, known for sucl 
illustrious roles as Raiden from the Mortal Kombat movie AND the Frencl 
guy from the second and third Matrix films, plays an immortal Scotsmai 
roaming the streets of 1986 New York. He has to behead other immortal; 
to gain their juicy brains  I mean powers. Not only does this film have i 
ridiculous premise, it also has Sean Connery playing an immortal Spaniarc 
with four names and an entire soundtrack by Queen. Go see it.
Airplane!
Spuemuyeo2A go9tn JH PAJBAJEx
This classic slapstick comedy is gracing the screen in McConomy after spring 
break. Now would be a great time to find all your friends who havent seen 
it yet and force them to go. What could be better than Leslie Nielsen, Lloyd 
Bridges, and a plane whose only hope for survival is a neurotic ex-pilot? 
Its one of those movies that almost everybody loves and it is your duty as a 
member of the community to spread its joy to everyone you possibly can.
The Machinist
Srna9yeo2A go9tn J6 H PAJBAJEx
Christian Bale is a creepy insomniac who operates heavy machinery. Do you 
know why heavy machinery always has that big warning on it that says DO 
NOT OPERATE WHILE DROWSY? The Machinist answers that question 
when Bale causes a grisly accident and then starts to go crazy. The film 
should be a nice, squirmy, hey Im uncomfortable, please hold me kind of 
movie. And you get to see what Batman would look like if he ate nothing but 
celery for a year.
Finding Neverland
S,9Meo2A go9tn JP K8 PAJBAJEk
Apparently the story of the guy who wrote Peter Pan is interesting enough 
to make a movie about it, and the movie was good enough to garner some 
Academy Award nominations. Its got Johnny Depp in it, but hes undoubtedly 
less cool when he isnt a pirate. Still, if you love English accents and peopl 
with Llewelyn in their name, Finding Neverland could be the movie for you.
Oceans 12
S8oha9eo2A go9tn JD H 6N$BAJBAJEN$Bx
Oceans 11 was one of the glossiest movies to come out in recent years, wit 
an all-star cast and classy directing. Oceans 12 is, of course, the seque 
where George Clooney starts working for the bad guys to pay off the mone 
he stole. Catherine Zeta-Jones is in this one, too  the whole thing is sti 
just a big Steven Soderburgh ego trip, though.
The Krays
S8ameo2A go9tn 20 d 8,10,12}
Gangster movies are pretty cool, and this one is actually based onatn 
story. And its English! If you missed that little touch of English class c 
your spring break, you might want to check out The Krays and watch tw 
mobsters rise through the decades to become crime lords in London. Much 
this movie was filmed on location, with different effects and props applied 
reflect the British townscape as it changed over the years. Find out firsthai 
that English crime isnt limited to drive-by arguments.
7VbyyAcor di ngAthetC dllBr

---------------------------------------------------

__on the cover.______
Beauty stereotypes: cultural inhibitors?
rhe effect of Western beauty standards on CMU students
et Plastic Surgery. No, you read that right. Its coming, 
ind itll be on a television near you soon. Who will watch 
t? The same people who watched The Swan, no doubt, 
n a culture that seems increasingly fascinated with our 
iistorted standards of beauty. Surely many viewers reilize the harm that such shows exemplify, but most are 
Decoming numb to the converging standards of physical 
ittractiveness that are now governing Americas trend in 
)eauty.
\s a melting pot of cultures in which each person is entitled 
:o freedom of expression, our country takes pride in its 
ndividualism and diversity. But we must re-evaluate how 
ieeply these values are rooted in society, or whether they 
ire simply meaningless words thrown around to cover up
All art: Vanessa Shyu/Art Staff
til one day we wake up and find ourselves in Stepford, 
amidst a population of blonde-haired, blue-eyed clones. 
With the shift from embracing the physical traits that 
are beautiful in other cultures, to casting away what is 
natural and pure for something that does not originally 
belong to us, we are promoting the inhibition of cultural 
beauty traits.
Accepted fashion
From the traditional garb of the Native American Indians, 
to the restricting age of corsets and hoop skirts, to bizarre 
headdresses worn by Chinese concubines, cultural attire 
has evolved into myriads of differing ideals. Now, though, 
most choose only to wear traditional cultural garb on 
special occasions and adopt Western attire for the rest of 
the time.
These prevalent beauty standards are not exclusive to the 
United States. On a global scale, there is a definite trend 
toward dressing in jeans and T-shirts. At one time, I used 
to go to India and wear shorts and I would be looked at as 
a Westerner, says Puja Talati, co-vice president of Mayur. 
Today, its easier to wear shorts because Western cloth
ing is more accepted.
Just take a glance at Indian MTV, and youll notice that 
Western clothing dominates over Indian clothing. Al
though parts of India still remain conservative, where 
people prefer to adorn themselves with the traditional 
sari, there is a definite Western influence in the bigger
one of the greatest conspiracies in our nation. Oprah tells 
us to love ourselves and others for whats within, as op
posed to loving people for their physical traits. We read 
magazine articles where models proclaim that you are 
beautiful no matter what body type you have. But this 
message is just a facade.
At the same time, we are highly selective when it comes 
to choosing our social crowds. You gasp in horror and dis
gust when you read that Celebrity X got a nose lift, or how 
Celebrity Y got her face done. But really, why should you 
be shocked when this growing sensation is occurring in 
your immediate environment?
Perhaps you didnt know that the girl sitting in the back of 
the room had a nose job over the summer, 
or that your lab partner recently had a pro
cedure for double eyelids. Who knew that 
these Western models of beauty were so en
croaching as to influence the standards of 
beauty in other cultures on campus.
The prevailing question becomes: Why do 
individuals of these cultural groups adapt 
to Western beauty criteria? Social Darwin
ism proclaims that survival of the fittest re
quires change and adaptability, but perhaps 
there are other compelling reasons that 
people perform such costly, and sometimes 
dangerous procedures. In the end, maybe 
the human desire for perfection is innate 
after all.
Carnegie Mellon University is a campus 
that prides itself in being diverse and ac
cepting of different cultures. But when you 
see Asian students walking around with 
blonde hair and blue contact lenses, ask 
yourself this: How accepting are we if our 
peers feel a need to fit into the beauty stan
dards defined by pop culture? It doesnt end 
there either: Next to them is the group of 
students who skip meals for that Kate Moss 
look. Across are the guys who constantly 
down protein shakes and protein bars to 
acquire a physique not dissimilar from our 
favorite male celebrities in Hollywood.
rirst-year chemical engineering student Kris Ayer dresses in traditional Indian 
arb for dancing.
Tall, blonde, and blue-eyed is not the stan
dard that society wants to promote, of 
course; at least, thats what most people 
will tell you. As a diverse community, CMU 
should not simply let these ethnic minor
ity beauty standards disappear into thin 
air. However, its just a matter of time unVbyyAcor 28 ngAthetC 2005.

---------------------------------------------------

cities.
From a different perspective, professor Chante Cox-Boyd 
from Carnegie Mellons psychology department says that 
the more closely assimilated African Americans are to 
the Caucasian culture, the more closely their standards 
of beauty model the Western ideal. However, despite this 
trend in convergence, Cox-Boyd says that because Af
rican Americans in general are more accepting of larger 
body images, some [researchers] have hypothesized that 
African American women do not attempt to live up to the 
thin ideal, and do not suffer from low self-esteem when 
they are larger than what is considered attractive.
Pop culture in Hong Kong is another notable example of 
the widespread influence of the Western beauty invasion. 
Although not so prominent among male celebrities, who 
usually have long hair, females are subject to a beauty 
standard resembling that of their Western counterparts. 
Dressing in revealing clothing a la Britney Spears, and 
bleaching their hair to platinum blonde, is not atypical 
for these pop icons.
The media industry in Asian countries definitely plays a 
big role in promoting the Western invasion, where West
ern styles and Western celebrities are portrayed as the 
universal beauty standards, says Stacey Chu, vice presi
dent of the Taiwanese Student Association. Some talk 
shows in Asia even go as far as bringing in blonde-haired, 
blue-eyed models to boost their ratings.
For Carnegie Mellon students with non-Western back
grounds, one of the most difficult challenges faced is de
termining the extent to which they should accept Western 
trends. Living in a society where being tan is highly at
tractive, Chinese, Japanese, and Korean girls experience 
a great dilemma in regards to Western beauty trends.
In these Asian cultures, having white skin is a mark of 
great beauty. My cousins girlfriend [in Taiwan] did my 
makeup once, and I was completely white, says sopho
more Mimi Chang. In fact, whitening cream is one of the 
most widely used categories of cosmetics in Asia.
The fact that Asian Americans are typically recognized as 
a minority group does not contribute to the growing con
vergence of beauty standards. To fit in, says Chu, Asian 
Americans try to act and look like Westerners, which 
leads to the unpopular images of the stereotypical Asian 
facial features.
Stereotypes, perpetuated
Recall that three years ago, Abercrombie & Fitch caused
a great uproar when they put out a line of T-shirts featur
ing stereotypical Asian images with controversial slogans. 
One such offensive shirt displayed Chinese laundry work
ers with conical hats and the phrase, Wong Brothers 
Laundry Service: Two Wongs Can Make It White. Al
though a spokesman for Abercrombie and Fitch claimed 
that they did not intend to offend, Chinese-Americans 
were outraged that a corporation would exploit the ste
reotypical Asian image for profit.
Stereotypes such as those presented on the Abercrombie 
& Fitch T-shirts propagate a sense of cognitive dissonance 
among Carnegie Mellon students with non-Western 
backgrounds. Choosing between tradition and fitting in 
to mainstream standards is not a simple task.
Eventually, more and more Asians, especially females, 
neglect their original looks and beliefs as they undergo 
plastic surgery to make themselves look more Western
ized, says Chu. The question then arises of how a person 
can reach a compromise amidst these daily cultural and 
societal pressures and whether or not these sacrifices are 
worth making in order to conform to the Western beauty 
image.
Perhaps Western influences are not completely account
able for these shifts in beauty and fashion. If we take a 
look at our campus community, it is clear that both men 
and women of Western descent are subject to these high
standards that are set by soci
ety. Even the minutest act, such 
as getting ones nails mani
cured or getting a haircut, is 
an indication that the beauty 
stereotypes propagated by the 
media are adhered to by the 
masses.
Its not surprising that many 
young adults suffer from eating 
disorders such as anorexia and 
bulimia. While women try to 
lose weight, the male popula
tion is frantically trying to gain 
it in muscle mass with dietary 
supplements. They scrutinize 
their reflections in the mirror, 
hoping to look like Brad Pitt 
and Josh Hartnett.
But the simple acts of gell
ing ones hair in the morning, 
dressing in a certain style, or 
using Brand X skin product, all
scream that beauty is in fact skin deep. Character becomes 
more dependent upon these superficial layers that Ameri
cans hide behind, as more and more begin to buy into the 
facade of beauty pop culture. Its even seeped into mili
tary culture: As an incentive to join the U.S. Army, they 
offer free cosmetic surgery, which includes liposuction 
and breast enlargements. Such procedures are sponsored 
by taxpayers money.
How is it that we preach the merits of inner beauty, when 
even our government explicitly funds the opposite? The 
blatant hypocrisy of the situation completely undermines 
the lessons pertaining to beauty and character that kids 
are taught at an early age.
Of course even the most conservative student often finds 
himself or herself submitting to the pressures of West
ern beauty stereotypes. Yet before we become a society 
where image entirely precedes merit and character, we 
must grasp the concept of beauty as measured through 
each persons unique personality. What is within should 
not surpass the outer layers we hide behind to project 
the image of perfection. Ultimately, seeking inspiration 
and excellence in others, and searching beneath physical 
beauty, are the keys to finding substance in people.
YrdyP sgh,p 
'm,cud xahiiRdcard
VbyyAcor 28 ngAthetC 2005.9

---------------------------------------------------

duckbarT* Y Sfcfoby >G'2Po
Isab elGrd
1 *flK Of IJITH f*Y BoYftfltOl 
Ah3> I'm co|C|N6 Fo/e. A^oTHfg 
I've nev* octet Foi? a foeij 6ur gepoie. wHEpe t x 
Staat?. -SIMOLE
NA5M
wMCjCe io Y'ou srArP 
Yoi/fifG/AJ F-I6HT H...Weekly inspiration from the ominously brooding pond
Wilbur and Carlow had just sat down to talk about
Wilburs vacation plans when a voice screeched from
the back of the room. Wilbur jumped out of his chair, p"* > ^
startled. u0h, dont mind Douglas! Hes annoying, but
harmless, Carlow explained. Wilbur hadnt noticed
the big birdcage when he walked in the room. Carlow had bought a
parrot as a gimmick back when he started his travel agency. He thought
Douglas would help him sell more tropical cruises. Carlow commiserated
with Douglas and soon grew fond of the bird. He himself often felt like
a tropical bird tethered in a place where he didnt belong, yearning to
spread his colorful wings and fly. Wilbur sat back down in his chair and
looked at Carlow, who had a thoughtful expression on his face. Suddenly
Carlow exclaimed, Wilbur! I have just the vacation spot for you!
\oU MUST arne 
BEAT HIM AT ft 
6AM of "'OtD MAIO
AfTtf DF*T/AG HIM, W UJILL. Giv
Yol/ Yo Vf. IWtT
OfiJC You 412-6
Hdv To FI NO THIS 
D<e55D 45
CflN'r SHE JusT t*T 
' G y ri TM*u6w feiNPJ, 
OR St IfitTlATir^G CON vg 507 IONS P
THU IS Tne F HIST ffifiT 
Of fi H^Nr
fofi. A goYffiifit>.
OH, THIS hJfiY IS 
EtSiefl. fir*0 Yo\) Kwoui |T
so et\CK you* &A65, You 
QovT To ?C.*Y. . . 
''MANHvmT; tgiM losa
fofi. 860w.u0ni 6ven r s
VISIt; TrNYSEfo<u,CotA WWT-.TfrtY5EPc>Kl)'HoTMA)L-0>M
pier and Fred by Greg PrichardAll Hail The Jon by Jon Samuelsgprichar @ andrewjsamuell @andrew
nice fUcB, HUM?im IS I'M 
'MRVf
IFCAT TfiKUV 
f<0&5 
% JJS6W ^
kJ &t*t5S.
ye p. T\)f.s oi/r wf usFTMC HI'DHANr
we'ee chwg to thc tkV&l P-od Hawsr TONicnr.WET ft CI/CL TOt>A/.TpeteP^JMtray 
COD DAY TQyoW. iti.
Is our uM.'itr 
ourorder out j.hedympiter?/\
Thert />"+  P^fe, w.+i) wort H3M a A +*c am b.'aC(.in _________
11:45 by Ed Ryanepr@ andrewWTF! by Josh Atlas and Jon Brodskykewlcomix@cmu.edu
Comics Trivia 
Question:
<ror
f*\A*CoNS-UMPnoN
Q: What classic comic 
strip originated the 
phrase, We have met 
the enemy and he is 
us?Musrivb^r
ESCAPE//
Al Capps Dick Tracy spoof 
was called Fearless Fosdick.
Write
comics@thetartan. org 
and get a chance to win 
two tickets to one of this 
weeks AB Films!
uto/TV* tkowrJ0.11 -f
comics._________________
~ ~ Tiny Sepuku tinysepuku@hotmail.com
10VbyyAcor di ngAthetC dllBr

---------------------------------------------------

Bob The Angry Flower by Stephen NotleyAnimals with Jetpacks by Zach Beardzbb@andrew
VbyyAcor di ngAthetC dllBr11

---------------------------------------------------

comics.
Campus Celebrities by Lisa Troutman
 piCOUUDlsiT 
> * j Tv4ir^W OP A
}C*.MPUSC8L.E.Sor#
ocGkIiMhA
ltroutma@andrew Ph.D. by Jorge Chamwww.phdcomics.com
Family Circuits by Josh Atlas, Jon Brodsky, and Greg Prichard
But Daddy, if Tyler and Fred have four 
panels, why cant I?""See, Mommy? You dont need that scary 
man at the street corner!
(Your caption here)
Come up with a caption of your own and 
E-mail it to comics@thetartan.org for the 
chance to see it in print!
12VbyyAcor 28 ngAthetC 2005.

---------------------------------------------------

HOROSCOPES
BY LARA VOIGT
ARIES (March 21 - April 19): Well, this weeks lookin pretty good for you, 
but make sure you have a working umbrella on Thursday. Don't say I didnt 
warn you  were talking wading through the water to Noahs Ark.
TAURUS (April 20 - May 20): Know that love spell youve been trying to 
put on your lab partner all semester? Well, it worked, but not on her. Avoid 
elevators for a while. Actually, stay away from them completely, and any 
other small space where you cant escape a certain somebody.
GEMINI (May 21 - June 21): Youve been trying to master that program 
for almost three months now; dont you think its time you went outside or 
perhaps took a shower? But make sure to lock your door behind you. That 
computers got a lot of pent-up aggression and you dont want it coming 
after you.
CANCER (June 22 - July 22): If you're looking for a change in your 
romantic status, be more outgoing on a sunny day this week. If it doesnt 
get sunny, well, thats fate telling you something.
LEO (July 23 - August 22): Good job, youve managed to keep your girlfriend 
for another month, and if you keep your eyes on where youre going, you 
could spot the $10 the guy in your Concepts class dropped earlier.
VIRGO (August 23 - September 22): Start thinking about getting a 
hamster or something, to give your apartment more of a homely vibe. If 
your apartment doesnt allow pets, dont try hiding it somewhere so sneaky 
you forget yourself. Do you remember where you hid your guinea pig last 
semester? Exactly.
LIBRA (September 23 - October 23): Dont throw a hissy fit when your 
roommate brings home his new girlfriend. Just think: Now you finally have 
someone to live vicariously through.
SCORPIO (October 24 - November 21): Campus is small. Meet someone 
new this week  seriously.
SAGITTARIUS (November 22 - December 21): Take time to tell the people 
in your life you appreciate them.... Youre going to need to borrow some 
money from them next week.
CAPRICORN (December 22 - January 19): The heater in your room is going 
to explode suddenly. Dont worry, the gods arent against you; they just 
needed some entertainment, and you and your roommate running down the 
hall screaming might just do the trick.
AQUARIUS (January 20 - February 18): Some people say you pay attention 
to detail, but dont you think spending seven hours a day on your biology 
lab is getting a little bit excessive? Beware of spending too much time with 
those ceil cultures; you dont know it yet, but youve created a new strain 
of mono.
PISCES (February 19 - March 20): Take a little time to breathe  in four 
days you could be sitting on a warm beach somewhere in Florida! In reality 
youll probably be at home, counting the days until you can come back to 
campus, but Spring Break" just sounds so warm.
To the Dogs
12 s9hna9 C47b2u9
1234
51
781
111213
14
116
171819
20


22
2324DD
25
262728293031323334
35a
36D
37
38D
3940
"
4344D5
4647
484950
51DD
535455D
565758it
606162
636465
661
671
68
6970
71
w.thee
1. Tale
6. Bosch painted one of Fools
10. Word with bubble or evening
14. The Right Stuff author Tom
15. Hermes instrument
16. Female Olympian
17. Get the rest to go
20. Chilean coin
21. Kind of numbers that are prime sums, 
according to Goldbach
22. There is nothing like_____ South
.Pacific
23. Disburden
25. With 57 Down, topped with ice cream
26. Itll never work!
35. Chronicler of Haller and Knecht
36. Eugenes daughter and Charlies fourth wife
37. Brood and fret
38. Phone nos. sometimes have one of these
shpr
1. Exchange
2. Models stance
3. Varieties
4. Results of exertion
5. Conservative columnist John
6. Native of 47 Down, e.g.
7. Jekylls alter ego
8. Descriptor of Bismarck or Thatcher
9. Spike
10. Some African weaverbirds
11. First name of WB TV star McEntire
12. Biblical Syria
13. Call a beeper
18. Take over, as a test
19. Ayn Rands mystery man
24. Concept
25. Wonkette blogger Cox and Romanian 
communist Pauker, for two
26. Degree measure, perhaps
27. Put a spell on
28. One Houston major-leaguer
29. Samuel Becketts mystery man
39. What Lincoln gave at Gettysburg
42. Dilberts primary accoutrement
43. 1012, briefly
45. Bozo
46. Pioneering architect Julian
48. Nature, red in tooth and claw
51. 1975 Doc Savage star Ron
52. Evil Dead's shotgun-wielding protagonist
53. What Greta Garbo wanted to be 
56. Muslim leader of prayer
59. 2005s will be held in Aichi Prefecture, 
Japan
63. Time for hot and sultry weather
66. First name of author Hurston
67. The Aviators Sen. Brewster
68. Site of Pisanos octagonal pulpit
69. Squeeze
70. Member of the British upper house
71. Reagan-era deregulation crisis
30. Part of IWW
31. Odds of being dealt two pair in poker:
____20
32. Total
33. Jurassic Park actor Sam
34. Nasts nemesis
40. June 6,1944
41. Trite proverbs
44. Goals
47. Region of the Czech Republic
49. Zenos hometown
50. Striking features on broads or dames
53. Shaping tool
54. Employ ones pupils?
55. Fiend
56. Wight or Man
57. See 25 Across
58. In the distance
60. Stan Lee and Jack Kirbys mutant superstars
61. Be imminent
62. Christian crank Roberts
64. What some dogs do incessantly
65. Letters before Mount Whitney or Coronado
VbyyAcor 28 ngAthetC 2005.13

---------------------------------------------------

SO THIS HEP JiVE-TURKEY 
SCOTT MCCLOUP WROTE A 
BOOK ABOUT THE ART OP COMICS
bf comic FORm eyygM
k "UNPERSTANPIN6 CO/YUCS" J
 HE WRITES 
THAT COMICS 
AREA RELIGIOUS 
EXPERIENCE, 
BLENPIN6 THE 
VISUAL LAN6UASE j 
OP Plim WITH THE 
INTENTIONAL, 
PACEP PESCRIPT10N 
l OP LITERATURE.
fi WRITERS' *m 
J PAINTERS/ 
f PESI6NERS/
ALL THE 
CREATIVE 
r PROFESSIONS 
f HIN6E ON 
mCCLOUP'S 
THEORIES/ ANP HE 
WROTE THEM IN * comic PORm/ 1
_.comics.________________
Comickaze Understanding Comics by Max Kaufmann
VbyyAcor 28 ngAthetC 2005.
XT'S BECOmE PRETTY 
POPULAR AmON(5ST THOSE 
IN THE KNOW. ALL mV ART PROFESSORS 
WHO SEE m REAP1N6 COmiCS 
TELL mE ABOUT IT.
THUS, ONLY 
IN COmiCS IS THERE A 
TRUE PIAL06 BETWEEN 
WHAT THE ARTIST SAVS 
"WITHIN" THE PANELS, ANP 
lWHAT THE REAPER imASlNES 
"BETWEEN" THE PANELS.
HIS IPEAS 
ARE NOT ONLY 
VALUABLE TO 
CARTOONlSTSi
[CALL NUmBER 
'YI.509 mfzui 
AT HUNT.
HOP TOf
mccioup

---------------------------------------------------

calendar.
MONDAY 28.TUESDAY 1.WEDNESDAY 2.
The Last Lecture Series, Forever Young. 4:30 pm. 
Adamson Wing, 136A Baker Hall. Eric Grotzinger, Carnegie 
Mellon.
This Day & Age/Waking Ashland w/ My Evergreen 
Avenue. Doors open 6 pm and music starts 7 pm. All 
Ages, tickets $8 in advance, $10 at door. Tickets available 
at mrsmalls.musictoday.com, 800.594.TIXX.
Level 27 Clothing Tour ft. Reasons for Leaving, 
Evolemo, Afterdrama, Thought Deposit, Dollface 
Divine. Doors open at 6:30 pm and music starts at 7 pm. 
All ages. Tickets $7 advance and $9 at the door. Tickets 
available at 800.594.TIXX.
ONGOING
Marian Visions. March 4-26. In the Pittsburgh premiere of this dark comedy by critic and playwright Ted Hoover. 
Ticket prices are $15 with a reservation, $20 at the door. Further information is available by calling The Pittsburgh 
Playwrights Theatre Company Box Office at 412.441.2213.
Carnegie Mellon School of Drama to Perform Three American Plays in Repertory. February 28-March 3 
and March 14-26. Carnegie Mellon School of Drama opens three American plays in repertory: Paul Zindels The Effect 
of Gamma Rays on Man-in-the-Moon Marigolds, Mojie Criglers FZZN GRRL, and Kia Corthrons Slide Glide, the Slippery 
Slope. These three productions, which will share a single set, will be performed on a rotating schedule in the Philip 
Chosky Theater in Carnegie Mellons Purnell Center for the Arts. Tickets on sale today, 412.268.2407.
THURSDAY 3-
Unblurred. Opening night. 7 pm. Quiet Storm Co 
fee House. Featuring up-and-coming performers ar 
a complimentary buffet. This month: DJ Selecta, Nik 
Allen (spoken word), Sondra Woodruff (solo artis 
& CK9 & the Old E AllStars (band). 412.661.9355 
www. quietstormcoffee. com/soundkitchen.
Awaken. Future Tenant. From Friday, March 4 till Saturday, April 2, Jennifer Bechak and Jasmine van den Huevel will 
use insects, grass, and lighting to create an atmosphere of subtle mystery in the space. The artists presentations and 
processes will engage viewers and invite them to explore the similarities between their own lives and the discoveries 
they make.
Kelly Strayhorn. Staged reading, http://www.kelly-strayhorn.org/.
5941 Penn Avenue. Phone: 412.363.3000. March 18,8 pm March 19,8 pm March 20,2 pm.
SPRING BREAK
LOOKING FOR AN EXCITING JOB? 
GOOD. BECAUSE RED BULL IS LOOKING 
FOR A STUDENT BRAND MANAGER.
Red Bull is on die lookout for a Student Brand Manager. An 
SBM is a reliable and motivated student whose responsibilities 
include relationship building, brand development on campus, and 
having a great time. (OK, that last one may not technically be a 
responsibility but were going to hold you to it anyway.)
Our expectations from you are the following:
 Youre going into your second year or higher at this school.
 You have a good knowledge of when/where things 
are happening.
 Youre interested in marketing and have good 
communication skills.
 Youre outgoing and have an entrepreneurial spirit.
 You can connect with different kinds of people.
 You have a flexible schedule.
Does this sound like you ? If so, dien please go to: www.redbullu.com.
O 2005 ftciS Bull Horth America, Inc, Ail rights reserved.
THURSDAY 17.
Mike Gallagher & Friends. A
St. Paddys Day Celebration with 
special guest Clannish. Doors 7 
pm and music 8 pm. All ages, 
Tickets $10 advance and at the 
door. Tickets at mrsmalis.musictoday.com, 800.594.TIXX.
Goethe and Globalization.
Breed Hall (Margaret Morrison). 
4:30 pm. Prof. Clark S. Muenzer 
of the University of Pittsburgh 
addresses issues of globalization, 
scientific complexity, and reductionism from a distinctly Goethean 
perspective.
Some Social Spin-Offs of 
the Revolution in Human 
Molecular Genetics and 
its Practical Applications
in Clinical Medicine and 
Forensics. Troy Duster, New York 
University. Adamson Wing, 136A 
Baker Hall. 4:30 pm.
Paul Chan, Artist. McConomy 
Auditorium, UC. School of Art 
Lecture Series. 5 pm.
PeerRelationships, Emotional 
Well-Being, and Behavior of 
Children with Chronic Illness 
and Classroom Comparison 
Peers. The Pittsburgh Mind-Body 
Center Lecture Series with Robert 
B. Noll. 4-5 pm. Mellon Institute, 
Social Room (third floor) Bellefield 
& Fifth Avenues.
FRIDAY 18.
Francesco Bonami in conver
sation with Laura Hoptman.
Manilow Senior Curator, Chicago 
Museum of Contemporary Art with 
Curator, 2004-2005 Carnegie 
International. 6 pm. Carnegie 
Museum of Art Lecture Hall. School 
of Art Lecture Series.
Maria Muldaur. Club Cafe. 7:30 
pm. $25 in advance / $27 day of 
show.
Sweetwater Jazz Series.
Sweetwater Center For The Arts. 
6 pm. Your senses will rejoice 
with the taste of hors douevres, 
refreshments, art, and lots of 
jazz. Tonights show features 
Patrick Arena (vocals), Skip Peck 
(piano), and Tony DePaolis (bass). 
Admission is $8 for members; $10 
for non-members. Produced by 
Patrick Arena Music.
ent etDisryG Pittsburgh Public 
Theater. 412.316.1600. Experience 
the lush and mystical wonders of 
Shakespeares enchanting final 
play. 8 pm. $33. www.ppt.org.
SATURDAY 19.
Cherry Monroe w/The Snaggs, 
Between Home & Serenity.
Doors open 6 pm and music starts 
at 7 pm. All ages and tickets are 
TBA.
Anti-War March and Rally. 2:30 
pm. Gather at the corner of Forbes 
and Murray for a rally and march 
to Oakland, Pitt Student Union. To 
be part of a global day of action 
against the war in Iraq. The Thomas 
Merton Center Anti-War Committee. 
www. pittsburghendthewar. org.
Jill Sobule. 7:30 pm. $15 in ad
vance and $17 day of show.
Douglas Crimp. Andy Warhol Mu
seum. 4 pm. Co-sponsored with the 
Carnegie Mellon University School 
of Art, scholar and author Douglas 
Crimp will analyze the Warhol films 
made in the mid-1960s.
Ralph Lemon: Come home 
Charely Patton. 8-9:30 pm. $20 
in advance $25 at the door. Byham 
Theater. 412.258.2700.
MONDAY 21.
Transportation for Sustainable 
Campus Communities. 4:30 pn 
Adamson Wing, 136A Baker Hal 
Will Toor, Director, University ( 
Colorado Environmental Center an 
Mayor, Boulder, CO.
llidt Glidt, ynt lliiiti 
lloitG Opening night! Purne 
Center for the Arts. 7:30 pm. Tl 
third production at Carnegie Mello 
will be three shows performed i 
rotating repertory one of which is 
Kia Corthrons Slide Glide, the Slip
pery Slope. Exploring science in the 
theater.
The Sleaze. Mark Pipas is The 
Sleaze at Club Caf. All details 
TBA.
EnterPrize Business Plan 
Competition: Business Plan 
Writing, www.pghtech.org. Coun
cil Training Room, 2000 Technology 
Drive. 412.918.4229. Everything 
you ever wanted to know about writ
ing a business plan but were afraid 
to ask will be covered in this work
shop. 5:30-8 pm. $25 for members 
$50 for non-members and $25 fo 
students.
VbyyAcor 28 ngAthetC 2005.15

---------------------------------------------------

gallery.
Wenyao Ho/ Photo Staff
Reed Mathis, bass guitarist of Jacob Fred Jazz Odyssey, rocks out last 
Tuesday in the Underground. Jacob Fred Jazz Odyssey has performed 
in over 150 concerts this year.
