Volume 80,Number 20__________________________ Carnegie Mellon University April 8, 1986
The Trtan
Pittsburgh almost denies Buggy Permit
By NATALIE CAPONE
Tartan Staffwriter
The situation jokingly reported in the 1985 
Natrat article Pittsburgh denies Buggy per
mit? as an April Fools Day joke almost 
became a reality last month when the city 
delayed in issuing free-roll and push practice 
permits for the 1986 Sweepstakes.
According to Gretchen Von Grossman, 
Sweepstakes Chairman, the problem with issu
ing the permits stemmed from the fact that the 
Friday morning races interfere with rush-hour 
traffic. While pending a decision, [the city] 
withheld all permits, including those for freerolls and push practice.
Anne Witchner, Director of Student Activities, 
said that there was simply a communication pro
blem because the permit application requested 
permission to use the city and park streets from 
6:00am to 1:00pm. The problem was 
straightened out after Witchner contacted the 
Director of Parks and Recreation and explain
ed that the streets would be closed for only a 
portion of that time.
President Cyert was also interested in see
ing that the problem was resolved, and assisted
Von Grossman and Witchner in getting the per
mits issued.
The permits were issued on the condition that 
the streets remain open until 8:30am, when the 
majority of the traffic is over. Students can start 
setting up for the races before this time, 
however. Witchner said Were at the mercy 
of the streets and parks for these races. Were 
lucky; theyre very fair with us.
The nuts and bolts of divestment
By ERIC ROCHER
Special to The Tartan
The purpose of this article is to provide you 
with the different sides of the ciivestment issue 
This article tries to be neutral. Another article 
in The Tartan describes the history and 
background of South Africa and more specifical
ly Apartheid. There is also an article on the 
Editorial page which describes what a referen
dum is and why there will be one at Carnegie 
Mellon.
Summary: If many U.S. companies, univer
sities, cities, and financial firms divest from 
companies with holdings in south Africa, the 
south African white government may be 
pressured to make alterations, either through 
negotiations or violent crack-down, on the 
system of Apartheid in order remain in 
power. Without divestment, young black 
radicals may turn to more violence to disman
tle Apartheid.
What are social conditions like in South 
Africa?
From TV news or newspapers, it is clear that 
there are social problems in South Africa. These 
problems seem to stem from three issues: pro
blems with youth unrest, education and labor 
practices.
There are 10 political groups in South Africa 
which are trying to obtain negotiations with the 
white minority government. The white govern
ment is replying to these efforts by repressing 
the groups and promising modest reform. The 
situation has become increasingly violent 
because unemployed youths with little prospect 
for a better future have increased 
demonstrating.
In South Africa the white government gives 
approximately $780 per year for white students 
and about $110 per year for non-white 
students. Critics of the government claim that 
such practices are highly discriminatory, 
continued on page 5
When asked why the races arent moved to 
a later time in the morning, Witchner explain
ed that they already run late into the day by 
starting at 9:00am. Von Grossman said that 
because everything else is so scheduled, it 
would not be feasible to change the races to 
Saturday and Sunday. Its tradition to have the 
races on Friday and Saturday, and we dont 
want to break with tradition.
Berry Resigns
By VUAY REDDY
Tartan News Editor 
Professor Brian Berry, former Dean of the 
School of Urban and Public Affairs (SUPA), 
resigned on March 30. Joel Tarr, Professor of 
History, Techonlogy and Urban Affairs, is the 
Acting Dean of SUPA but has no interest in 
staying in the position. Professor Robyn Dawes, 
Head of Social Sciences, is chairing a selection 
committee to find a permanent Dean.
Professor Berry refused to comment on why 
he resigned or even why he did not wait until 
the end of the school year to resign. He said 
that he would not comment beyond what was 
in President Cyerts memo. The memo said, I 
have asked Brian Berry to remain as dean for 
another term. To my regret, he has decided to 
resign on personal grounds. It is with reluctance 
that I have agreed to accept his resignation.  
When asked if internal politics had been in
volved, Berry refused to comment and sugphoto by Jack L. Poller 
One day of free-rolls and one week of push 
practice was lost because of the delayed per
mits, but the situation has now been resolved. 
We will be having race day on Friday and 
Saturday as always," Von Grossman said.
A lot of people have to cooperate for this 
to happen, said Witchner. who is pleased with 
the support that everyone involved has given.
dan. Jordan denied that politics was involved 
and Cyert was unavailable for comment.
A high SUPA administrator suggested that a 
politically polarized atmosphere was created as 
a result of Berrys administrative style. This led 
to a mixed rating on his performance review 
which was being conducted just prior to his 
resignation. Berry refused to either confirm or
gested asking President Cyert and Provost Jordeny the allegations.
The CMU Gold Card: Dont leave the dorm without it
By DAVE LEVY
Tartan Assistant
By the fall semester of this year it may be 
possible for students to not carry any cash with 
them at all when on campus. There is present
ly a proposal being made in the administration 
to set up a general account for individual 
students that would be much like the present 
Val-i-dine that University Dining Services 
uses.
The students would only have to carry their 
ID cards to the Bookstore, Artstore, Entropy, 
Scotland Yard, UDS facilities, or the Margaret 
Morrison Storefronts, the Co-op and the Caber 
Club, and they would be able to purchase items 
using money deposited into a single account
with the University.
The idea is not new in the administration 
although this is the first time it has been brought 
up this year. It was first brought up during the 
discussion with Fred Rogers, head of Business 
Affairs for the university, at Donner Hall dur
ing the beginning of the semester and is cur
rently being worked on by Oscar Mayer, the 
head of Auxiliary Services, and Thomas Homer, 
the comptroller of Carnegie-Mellon.
Mr. Mayer has commented that the ad
ministration in enthusiastic because this is the 
first real mention of it and indeed the first men
tion that I can remember where the initiative 
didnt come from someone in dining services 
or somebody in auxiliary services or the ad
ministration but the impetus is coming from the 
students.
At present Messers Mayer and Horner are 
looking at all the possibilities that such an ID 
card account could have. With the correct 
resources the account could also be used to get 
and give information. The account could be us
ed at registration to insure that you were you, 
as it has been done in the past semester with 
the information and card readers connected to 
IBM PCs.
As the ID card account's potential is realiz
ed students could just use their ID card to take 
books out of the campus libraries. It could even 
be used as a time saver at the cashier's office 
because you could slip your card into a machine
and find out if you had a check waiting or not. 
If you did, one simple slip would be required 
to get your check at the window instead of sign
ing a piece of paper. Another use would be just 
to slip your card through the machine when 
checking out equipment as opposed to leaving 
your card at the desk. The new system could 
even be used to help voting procedure by in
suring that no one could vote twice just by bar
ring anyone with a slip through the machine.
The only problems that are faced now is a 
cost analysis and a definite timeline to installa
tion of the equipment. But the plans are to simp
ly phase in different parts of the account until 
it is used to the best extent. Get ready Carnegie 
Mellon, a cashless campus is coming.
Apartheid American Style....................................................page 32
Japanese get Leary.....................................................see Diversions

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanApril 8, 1986
Distribution requirements would make the core work
A survey of student opinion of the core, both 
the individual college cores and a university 
core, appeared in the Tartan in the spring of 
1985. This survey has been processed by the 
Student Advisory Committee on the Core Cur
riculum (SACCC) and used to determine stu
dent opinion concerning the adoption of a 
university core. The committee concluded that 
a university core would be beneficial if the 
courses would be offered as distribution re
quirements rather than as specific required 
classes.
The survey that appeared last spring was 
designed to find out which courses students felt 
would be most beneficial for them. The survey 
asked students to rate a long list of courses by 
how appropriate they thought that course would 
be to a university core. Students reached a solid 
consensus on five courses that were felt by all 
to be the most useful: Writing, Oral Com
munication, Practical Computing, Literature, 
and American History. Other courses were 
unaminously rejected: Design, Computers in 
Society, Physical Education, Biology, En
trepreneurship, Foreign Language, Impact of 
Science, and Consumer Law. The other six 
courses mentioned. Art History , Ethics, Physics, 
Comparative Cultures, Philosophy, and Cog. 
Psych, were well received by some students and 
rejected by others.
Two questions were also asked: How hap
py are you with your current curriculum? and, 
Do you wish you had more freedom to choose 
electives (more electives)? The responses were 
strong. Everyone agreed that more electives are 
wanted. Satisfaction with the curriculum in
creases as class/year increases.
The university core is designed to de
segregate CMU, to bring students from all the 
colleges together in classes that all students can 
feel are useful to them. The SACCC supports
this goal, but wishes to insure that the classes 
are truly useful for all participants and also small 
enough to accomplish the primary pupose of 
providing a meeting ground for students from 
the different colleges. The most practical solu
tion seems to be distribution requirements. 
Students would be required to take one class 
in each of a variety of required courses, possibly 
the five courses listed above as most ap
propriate. The student would have a list of 
classes within each subject to choose from and 
could thereby choose the class that held the 
most interest for him/her as an individual and 
in relation to his/her area of academic interest. 
By doing this, both the student and the professor 
would be freed from the restrictions that are so 
prevalent and destructive under the current 
system. Currently, bored professors are forced 
to teach subject-matter that is often outside of 
the professor's field of interest. Furthermore, 
the recitation professor has little or no input in
to the class structure. By allowing the professors 
to offer courses of their own choosing, both stu
dent and teacher interest and involvement will
These conclusions are not confined to 
members of the SACCC. The final part of last 
years survey left room for comment on this 
question: If you were designing CMUs core, 
what would you insist on? The response was 
overwhelmingly unsupportive of the current 
system:
Flexibility. Distribution requirements. It is 
widely known that lecture courses have poor at
tendance, proceed too slowly and usually treat 
the subject superficially...Too many semesters 
are already wasted in entry level 
courses...Algorithmic buzzword analysis is not 
a truly intellectual process. (Junior, Econ.)
I would insist on more freedom for each stu
dent to take those courses which are impor
tant/worthwhile to her/him. (Soph, Civ.E.)
That the core imposes on no major or 
department...it should not be the emphasis of 
schooling, it should be enhancement to the 
courses taken in a major. (Soph, ECE) 
Many students were adamantly against a core: 
I would probably not design a core, since 
students in different colleges have such varied 
interest and backgrounds. (Junior, App Math)
Others raised the points that we on the 
SACCC are most concerned about:
Im glad Im going to be out of here before 
this gets implemented. Not that a univ-wide core 
is a bad idea (its not a good idea either, but 
its not a bad idea), its just that I would really 
fear for the quality of teaching in those courses. 
It will be hard to find a teacher whos interested 
and hard to find students who are interested. 
That doesnt sound like a good combination to 
me. Let the students be narrow-minded if they 
want to be. Its their own choice and its their 
own fault if it turns out bad. Let them have the 
responsibility! Laissez-faire, laissez-faire!! 
(Senior, English)
Ideally, university core requirements will 
fulfill individual college core requirements, 
while at the same time providing students with 
an opportunity to mix with students from col
leges other than their own. If this is feasible, 
it will be an improvement over the current 
system. What students are saying, is: If youre 
going to give it to us, be sure' its going to work.
Jordan elected to National Academy of Engineering
WASHINGTONDr. Angel G. Jordan, pro
vost at Carnegie Mellon University, has been 
elected to the National Academy of Engineer
ing. Election to the Academy is the highest pro
fessional distinction that can be conferred on 
an engineer.
Jordan, one of 73 newly elected members 
from across the nation, was cited for his con
tributions to solid-state device research, and for 
innovative leadership in engineering educa
tion.
Jordan became provost at Carnegie Mellon
njflj
ayIff
,J||: 'rJf
in 1983 after four years as dean of the univer
sitys engineering college. He was head of the 
Electrical Engineering Department at Carnegie 
Mellon from 1969-79. Jordan joined the univer
sity as an instructor in 1956 and earned his doc
tors degree at Carnegie Mellon in 1959.
C
I He has been credited with leading the univer
si sitys drive to win the Defense Department contract for the Software Engineering Institute in 
1985. Jordan also has been instrumental in 
I cooperative efforts by business and education 
Vol to revitalize the western Pennsylvania economy.
CMU
Computer Store
CMU Computer Store: UCC - A level
Phone: x2636 MM: PS00@TE 
For a current price list: Type HELP COMPUTER-STORE-PRICES on any
TOPS System.
PRICE REDUCTIONS!
The Prices of the following products have been reduced at the 
CMU Computer Store:
ume808, Nmeb0r2_Caee Nerabn Neag0be iMa UMMvs tr8yeA
"Old Style" IBM PC64k Motherboard$650.00Megamax C Compiler125.00Wordmark125.00OmniReader295.00Mac Carrying Cases49.95Sritek 68000 Coprocessor200.00NEC Tractor Feed50.00
While Supplies Last!
?r
I USED, OUT OF PRINT 
AND RARE BOOKS ON
0 ? ALL SUBJECTS ? ? 
FINE ART I BIOGRAPHY 
HISTORY & LITERATURE 
AMERICANA I EPHEMERA
1 SHEET MUSIC I MAPS
? POSTCARDS I BOOK 
SEARCH SERVICE ???
? ?BOOKS ANDDDD
? EPHEMERA BOUGHT ?
---------------E
 1404 S. NEGLEY AVENUE
? SQUIRREL HILL, NEAR ?
? ? WILKINS AVE. ? ?
? ? 412/521-8464 ? ?
Tues-Sat. 11-6, Thursday until 9 
And by appointment.
wONNIS DE CAMP ? D 
Mm SELVAGGIO ? D
?LJD
North Craig Street
Large two-bedroom furnished apart
ment. Available May 1, 1986
$350 Plus Utilities 
Call 751-9639 or 621-0610
Sumar rmuyy :ApAdermatologist
 easily accessible by bus from CMU
3500 Fifth Ave, Suite 102, Oakland 
682-5050
MasterCard. Visa accepted 
Call appointment

---------------------------------------------------

Aprii 8, 1986The TartanPage 3
Four students debate for Presidential job
By LISA MCANANY
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
In a formal debate, candidates for the office 
of student government president had an oppor
tunity to present their views and plot forms, as 
well as answer questions from panelist and the 
audience.
The candidates, Jim Denburg, Allen 
Greenberg, Peter Lonsky, and Ed Welsh, par
ticipated in a debate open to the public on Tues
day, April 1 in the Wherret Room. The debate 
was very competently moderated by Cindy 
Taylor, chairman of the Student Senate 
Academic Affairs Committee. Panelists for the 
debate were Dean Lois Cox, Dean of Student 
Affairs, Karen Lee, graduating Student Govern
ment President, and Peter Cohen, chairman of 
the Student Senate Campus Affairs Committee.
In the 3-minute opening statements, the can
didates offered a condensed version of their 
views on general campus issues, as well as their 
personal goals if elected as president.
Jim Denburg stressed the need for an at
mosphere which would facilitate effective 
problem-sloving and flow of information. Accor
ding to Denburg, creating such an atmosphere
requires good working relationships among 
Senators, strengthening relationships with the 
administration, creating an efficient network 
among campus organizations, and establishing 
effective communication between the student 
body and the Student Government President.
Holding Student Senate accountable for the 
solutions to student problems and getting stu
dent input on issues and decisions concerning 
students were the main tenets of Allen 
Greenbergs opening statement. Greenberg sug
gested setting up a comment table inside of 
Skibo which would be manned by Senators; he 
also emphasized a desire for more referenda 
and more freedom for students, who may cur
rently find it difficult to bring controversial 
speakers to campus, for instance.
Peter Lonsky used an extended metaphor of 
having a drivers license to illustrate the need 
for the Student Government President and the 
entire student body to get behind the wheel 
of the university. In a unique conclusion, Lon
sky listed criteria by which the audience should 
evaluate the candidates throughout the debate. 
Will the candidate do a good job? Does he 
have motivation, commitment and experience?
were among the qualifications which Lonsky 
suggested the audience look for.
Presenting himself as the common mans can
didate, Ed Welsh used his signature analogy of 
the bull, originally grounded in high alcoholcontent beer which doesnt taste very good, 
but will get you just as drunk. Welsh extend
ed the metaphor to say that the bull also sym
bolized strength and determination, qualities 
which Welsh feels he would bring to the 
Presidency.
In response to questions from the panelists 
and audience, Jim Denburg articulated four 
qualities which he considers to be essential for 
the office: open-mindedness, leadership abili
ty, motivation, and being well-organized. 
Denburg mentioned improving the spirit of the 
student body and changing to a more competetive athletic conference as specifically impor
tant issues. He summarized his platform with 
the phrase, CMU is a great place to be.
Answering the same question, wellinformed, agressive, sympthetic to the views of 
students, and realistic, are the qulities which 
Allen Greenburg believes to be of paramount im
portance. Greenberg offered the successful
completion of the student center, with a large 
amount of input from students as one of the 
most important issues on campus. He 
characterized his campaign with the phrase 
student solutions for student problems.
Peter Lonsky stressed motivation, commit
ment, attentiveness and experience as the most 
important characteristics for the candidates and 
future president. Important issues for Lonsky 
include the student center, particularly with a 
large auditorium/concert hall included in the 
project, and Lonsky opposes a dry rush. He 
summarized his platform as a breath of fresh 
air.
Being responsible, a good speaker, a good 
listener and open-minded are the four qualities 
favored by candidate Ed Welsh. An issue of 
particular interst for Welsh is expanding and 
improving the Escort Sevice. To characterize his 
campaign, the candidate said, I think the bull 
speaks for itself.
The Student Government elections will take 
place Wednesday and Thursday, April 9 and
10. For the personal statements of the can
didates, see pages 6 and 7.
Jeff Muller wins regional rock-alike competition for CMU
By KAREN WOODILLA
Tartan Staffwriter 
Jeff Muller, representing Carnegie Mellon, 
won the Northeast Regional Rock-alike competi
tion to benefit Multiple Sclerosis with his im
personation of Morris Day from The Time. 
The competition was held last Friday night 
at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, New 
Jersey . Winners from the twelve schools com
prising the Northeast Region performed their 
air band-style acts for judges and an audience 
of several thousand students.
Muller will visit New York City later this 
month to perform his rendition of The Bird 
for video taping at MTV Studios. Videos from 
the winners of the eight regional competitions 
will be shown on MTV during the last week of
May and the first week of June. Viewers will 
be invited to telephone in their votes for the best 
video.
Muller and the rest of The Time gave a per
formance at the regional competition similar to 
their performance at Carnegie Mellons RockAlike competition. Carnegie Mellons Time was 
comprised of Muller, Rory Moore as Gerome 
Junior, Carl Stith, Kip Jackson, Bernard Uy, Ed 
Zeilhofer (substituting for Pat McMuller) and 
John Judge impersonated Jelly Bean..
It was a good show. Everyone has well 
rehearsed and outragious routines, Muller 
said. Rutgers wasnt quite as lively as Carnegie 
Mellon. Instead of dancing in the aisles like what 
happened at our air band competition, students 
were calm during the shows and cheered after
wards.Second place was awarded to a Diana 
Ross impersonator and a Madonna imper
sonator was awarded third place.
This is the best birthday present! exclaim
ed Rich Miller, a leader of Carnegie Mellons
Students Against MS. Everyone can feel good 
about contributing to the MS drive. We do 
deserve a concert. Im thinking about taking out 
a one million dollar loan and doing it myself! 
Students should get ready to phone into MTV.
CMU gets $4 million from IBM
PITTSBURGHCarnegie Mellon University 
will receive close to $4 million in funds and 
equipment from International Business 
Machines Corporation (IBM) to support the 
universitys pioneering network of advanced 
computers.
The IBM donation will enhance Carnegie 
MeUons ongoing effort to have one of the 
world s largest high-speed networking systems, 
says Will am Y. Arms, vice president for com
puting and information systems at Carnegie 
Mellon.
The system will make it possible for any stu
dent, faculty or staff person who has a computer 
or who uses one of Carnegie Mellons advancedfunction workstations to communicate with all 
other computers on campus at a very high 
speed, he says.
IBM has donated token ring networking elec
tronics and cabling system materials for 
wiringtw o of the components that make up the 
networking system, Arms says. Carnegie Mellon 
will provide the fiber optics, the third 
component.
The IBM Cabling System will connect com
puters within buildings; fiber optics will inter
connect buildings; and IBMs token ring 
technology will provide the electronics to move 
information through the media, according to 
Arms. There will be more than 10,000 outlets 
for computer connection in residential and 
academic buildings across campus.
This is the biggest IBM Token Ring installa
tion ever, Arms says, noting that other net
working technologies will also be supported.
Several Carnegie Mellon buildings have 
already been wired and approximately 1,000 
workstations will be connected on campus by 
the end of 1986. Eventually, more than 7,000 
advanced function workstations will be on the 
Carnegie Mellon network.
The winner of the Raffle for 2 free 
round-trip tickets to anywhere in the con
tinental U.S. on American Airlines is:
973589.
The holder of this ticket has just one week 
to turn in this number by calling the SDC 
office, x2114; after this time, a new 
number will be picked.
Help build the arc
Association for Retarded Citizens
BOSTON
U N I
Summ
V E R S I T Y
er Term 1986
Boston University is the place to be 
this summer! Take advantage of the 
excellent academic resources of worldrenowned Boston University while you 
enjoy the unique atmosphere of one of 
the world's most 
dynamic citiesBOSTON
 400 credit courses in forty-four 
subject areas
 Two six-week sessions: May 20- 
June 28 and July 1-August 9
 Undergraduate and graduate courses
 Day or evening classes
 Register by mail or in person
REGISTRATION BEGINS APRIL 22.
For a free copy of the Summer Term 
1986 Bulletin and Guide to Boston 
Summer Events
CALL 617/353-3000
or mail coupon today!
Boston University Summer Term 1986 
7S5 Commonwealth Avenue, Room 104 
Boston, MA 02215
j
Name_________________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________________ ;
City________________________State______p1n96l6 T
University/College------------------------- ;
Boston Umrwruty is an equal opporrtuuty institution

---------------------------------------------------

CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY 1986 SUMMER SESSION
The following course desriptions were omitted from the 1986 Summer 
Studies Catalog:
70-312 ORGANIZATIONAL BEHAVIOR II Section U/ 2nd Session/ MTThF/ 8:30-10:00/PH 125D
Instructor: Robert Atkin
The focus of Organizational Behavior II is on organizations as entities: more specifically, we shall study how and why 
organizations change, why some organizations are mors effective and/or efficient than others, how organizations 
affect the people who work in them, and how these same people affect the organization.
We will focus on business organizations. In the process of our discussions, we will at times be interested in many 
functional area opics, including production, marketing, internal control systems, and strategic planning.
A basic thesis of this course is that what organizations *do and why they do what they do can be studied with 
scientific rigor. Indeed, this study forms the research agenda in the fields of organizational theory. More 
importantly, however; for your purposes is the second basic thesis of this course; namely, A MAJOR PRODUCT OF 
THIS STUDY IS INFORMATION THAT CAN HELP INDIVIDUALS BECOME BETTER PARTICIPANTS IN 
ORGANIZATIONS AND BETTER MANAGERS OF OTHER INDIVIDUALS.
When we deal with issues of a financial or technological nature, we can often apply straightforward rules to determine 
which course of action is "best. Few "organization problems have such simple answers. Usually, the management 
of organizations involves complex and subtle responses to ill-defined and ambiguous situations.
I believe that it is important that students of organizational theory understand this complexity. My observation is that 
this is best learned by asking the student to place him/herself in the midst of real situations ... there is nothing like 
being in a situation to appreciate how difficult it is to find "correct actions. In order to do this, we will make heavy use 
of the CASE METHOD.
70-474 HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT Section S/ 1st Session/ MTWTh/ 8:30-10:00/ PH 126B
Instructor: Robert Atkin
The central thesis of the course is that people are, and will continue to be, the single most flexible and most valuable 
resource to which U.S. industry has ready access. It is also probably truew that they are the most poorly managed 
resource in U.S. industry. Our goal is to develop the background and skills necessary to manage this resource better 
in the future than has been the case in the past.
To achieve this goal, we will examine a number of different topics. These topics will cover a broad spectrum from 
career development to recruitment and selection, from productivity and quality to labor relations, from employee 
participation to government involvement. Although most of the topics are applicable to a wide range of business 
settings, we will concentrate on goods producing industries.
This is NOT a traditional course in personnel management. Those kinds of courses are designed for the relatively 
small number of students who wish to pursue careers in personnel. It IS a course deisgned for people who expect to 
be managers of other people. Although students from any college are welcome, the course is most likely to be of 
interest to those students who are in IM or CIT. THERE ARE NO PREREQUISITES.
Finally, this course will NOT be taught in the traditional lecture mode. 11 WILL emphasize student participation and 
involvement. As such, you will have the chance to develop some skills of presentation, argumentation and criticism 
that most courses donl provide.
80-100 PHILOSOPHIC METHODS AND MORALS
Section S/ 1 St Session/ TWTh/ 10:15-12:00/BH 231/ Instructor: Ernie Alieva
This course is an introduction to philosophical method and argument through reading and discussion of texts in moral 
and political theory. Topics covered will include problems of metaethics and justification in moral theory, moral 
relativism, individual liberty and social justice. Readings will include selections from traditional authors such as Plato 
and Mill as well as from comtemporary philosophers. There are no prerequisites for the course.
80-236 SEX. DRUGS. ROCK H ROLL AND SEAT BELTS 
Problems of Individual Liberty, Paternlsllsm and Political Theory
Section S/ 1st Session/ TWTh/1:15-3:00/ BH 213/ Instructor: Ernie Alieva
A central problem of modern political theory, especially as interpreted and applied in liberal-democratic societies, has 
been the delineation and justification of a protected domain of individual liberty, where intervention by society or the 
state ought to be prohibited. Are there certain kinds of activities that ought to be permitted regardless of the actual or 
potential harm to those who voluntarily participate in them, or regardless of the offensiveness or perceived indecency 
of such activities to others, so long as no other individuals are harmed? Or, can such activities be justifiably 
prohibited or restricted for paternalistic reasons (i.e. for the individuals own good), or for reasons involving appeals to 
offensiveness, indecency, degradation or insult as grounds for moral rights and obligations?
Specific issues discussed in the course will be selected from the following: so-called "victimless crimes (e.g. 
prostitution, gambling, certain kinds of drug use, the sale of pornographic materials, etc.), legislation requiring the 
use of seat belts or airbags in automobiles, paternalism in medical contexts and occupational health and safety, 
sexual behavior (e.g. homosexuality and consenual sado-masochistic relationships), problems concerning 
free speech, artistic expression and censorship (e.g. recent debates about pornography, sexist and racist literature, 
song lyrics on records which are sexually explicit or are about drug use, etc.), volurrtay slavery, and invasions of 
privacy, among others.
Discussion of the above issues will indude a survey of alternative theoretical approaches such as utilitarianism,  
libertarianism and contemporary contract theories, as well as critical analyses of key concepts and distinctions, such 
as rational agency, consent, privacy, liberty, harms vs. offenses, direct vs. indirect harms, self-regarding vs. 
other-regarding actions, sane vs. insane individuals and minors vs. adults.
Readings will include selections from J.S. Mill's On Liberty, recent commentaries on Mill, and works by contemporary 
moral, political and legal theorists, such as Berlin, Hart, Devlin, R. Dworkin, G. Dworkin, Nozick, Richards and 
Feinberg.
There are no prerequisites for the course and no familliarity wiht philosophical problems or texts is presupposed. The 
course should be of interest to students in philosophy, policy studies, economics and other social sciences, law, 
journalism and the arts.
Please fill out the Summer Studies form in our other ad, or stop by Warner Hall 108 for 
a copy of the 1986 Summer Studies Catalog.

---------------------------------------------------

April 8, 1986The TartanPa^e 5
Sullivan Code guides some businesses in South Africa
continued from page 1
whereas the government claims that reform is 
under way and that the education of non-whites 
is better than a few years ago.
Opponents of Apartheid are demanding that 
social conditions need to be changed in South 
Africa. The Africans, who make up 70% of the 
population, take home only about 30% of the 
wages, while the rest of the South African 
population takes the rest. Whites also take almost 
all of the managerial and supervisory positions 
in the country. However, proponents of Apar
theid claim that South Africa is developing 
socially.
What is the political situation like in South 
Africa?
(The system of Apartheid is described in 
another article in this issue.)
The critical determinant of whether Apartheid
is dismantled or maintained is the relative 
strength of 10 key group leaders within South 
Africa and their willingness to use their strength 
to seek to eliminate or maintain white political 
domination.
The white government is faced with two 
political choices: to negotiate with representative 
black leaders or to continue to repress the 
blacks and promise reform.
The white government is cracking down on 
the key groups by sending non-white leaders 
to jail or exile. Such an approach has resulted 
in nihilistic youth violence.
Opponents of divestment say that if U.S. com
panies withdraw from south Africa, the violence 
and crack down will escalate.
On the other hand, proponents of divestment 
say that if U.S. companies withdraw from South
Africa, the white government may someday be 
forced to negotiate with representative black 
leaders in order for South Africa to keep U.S. 
investments.
What is the Sullivan Code?
Leon Sullivan is a Philadelphia minister and 
General Motors Corporation board member 
whose Sullivan Code sets standards for fair and 
equal employment for multinationals operating 
in South Africa.
The points of the code are: 1. Desegregation 
of the work place, 2. Equal pay for equal work,
3. Equal employment opportunity, 4. Training 
non-whites for administration and management,
5. Increased employment of non-whites in ad
ministration and management, 6. Improved 
conditions in the work place.
The Code also has a section on Increased 
Dimensions of Activity outside the Work Place.
The history and reasons for Apartheid
By GAVIN WILLIAMS
Tartan Stajfuiriter
The issue of divestment from companies do
ing business with South Africa has probably 
created more division, interest and confusion 
within the Carnegie Mellon community than vir
tually any other issue raised within the past few 
years. Student interest on the subject has been 
remarkably high and on April 9th and 10th, 
students will be given the chance to vote on a 
referendum concerned with divestment. The 
referendum will essentially give students the 
chance to show how they feel Carnegie Mellon 
should deal with its South African investments. 
Students can vote for Partial (meaning Carnegie 
Mellon will sell stocks only to companies that 
comply with the Sullivan principles, or any other 
code of conduct), Total, or No divestment from 
South Africa.
Despite the interest generated by the divest
ment issue, many of those interested know lit
tle about South Africas history and more importantly, its politcal system. Although obviously 
a vast and complicated subject, a brief look at 
the developmentof South Africa and especially 
the idea of Apartheid will be useful in clarify
ing what the reasons for divestment are in the 
first place.
South Africa like the United States, has ex
perienced inequality among the races from its 
earliest days. This inequality among races can 
be directly correlated to the economic ine
qualities that exist, for the whites have almost 
always been included in the upper classes, while 
non-whites generally have not. The important 
idea about the races in South Africa is that 
whites have always represented a minority com
pared to the blacks. However, this monority has 
always been large enough to allow the whites 
to control the important positions, such as 
foremen, soldiers and bureaucrats. It is this 
ability of the whites to control the important 
positions that makes changing the system hard.
The main tool used by the white minority to
control the blacks and so remain in power, is 
the idea of Apartheid. Although as an official 
ideology, Apartheid has only been around for 
about 50 years, it has essentially been around 
for over 300 years, in the Afrikaners na
tionalistic beliefs.
As explained by Professor Richard Elphick 
of Wesleyan University, at Carnegie Mellons 
recent South Africa teach-in, South African 
history can be divided roughly into three 
periods.
Period of Dutch Colonialism
The initial period is that of Dutch colonialism 
before 1795. The first white settlers were the 
Dutch, who landed at the site of Cape Town in 
1653. Along with a small number of French 
and German settlers, the Dutch made up a 
minority greatly out-numbered by the natives. 
However, because the natives near Cape Town 
were loosely organized and because the settlers 
kept their identity as whites, the Dutch had litcontinued on page 8
Is the Sullivan Code effective or 
inneffective?
Proponents of the Code in the United States 
say it does more good than harm, and is 
therefore an acceptable standard for U.S. 
multinationals.
Opponents of the Code stress that the code 
does not put enough pressure on the govern
ment to negotiate with blacks.
In response to these opponents, many U.S. 
companies now obey the Code as well as their 
own stricter codes of conduct.
Is divestment a trend?
U.S. consumers of South African products, 
such as the military and other interests say 
no. South Africa produces 60% of the 
worlds gold, has heavy diamond reserves, and 
most importantly produces many vital minerals 
used for U.S. nuclear weapons. These interests 
see good reason to keep investing in South 
Africa.
Others say yes. South Africa is facing a 
recession due to lagging mineral and gold prices 
as well as a weak goverment. The return on 
South African investments was about 20% for 
the earlier part of the dacade, but has recently 
fallen to about 5% or less. These people see 
good reason to remove the investments in South 
Africa and move to more profitable projects. 
What effect will divestment have on 
Carnegie Mellon?
Carnegie Mellon receives many gifts from cor
porations. Before taking a definitive stand on 
partial or total divestment, the Board of Trustees 
will have to consider the consequences of 
divesting from such companies.
If Carnegie Mellon does divest partially or 
totally, it will be making a moral commitment 
towards changing Apartheid.
If Carnegie Mellon continues investing as it 
has in the past, the university will be making a 
commitment to the South African government 
to let the South Africans solve their own 
problems.
Friday, April 11, 1986 7:45-11pm 
The Gateway Clipper Ship
Tickets for dinner and dance: 
Students $10, Staff $11, Faculty $12
Transportation provided - buses 
depart Skibo at 7pm.
All tickets on sale at Baker Hall 161 
or Skibo Information Desk
Table reservations available for 
groups of six or eight people. Call 
268-2925 for more information.
Open to the entire university.
Sponsored by the H&SS Student Advisory Council 
and the H&SS Dean's Office

---------------------------------------------------

Student Senate Elections
PRESIDENTIAL
A student government President is elected 
into the position to get things done for the 
student body. The President needs the prac
tical experience and resources within the 
student body, faculty and administration, as 
well as the personal skills such as motiva
tion and commitment, to solve problems.
I am a junior majoring in Professional 
Writing. I have two terms of experience in 
university politics as a member of student 
senate. I am currently Vice Chairman of the 
Campus Affairs committee of student 
senate. I am a member of the H&SS Col
lege Council, the recently formed Campus 
Health Advisory Committee and the social 
fraternity Phi Kappa Theta.
I have been an active member of student
senate as a senator longer than any of the 
other candidates. The resources and ex
perience of student senate are an essential 
starting point for the President. In senate I 
have worked through the Campus Affairs 
committee to investigate and expose serious 
problems in the Doherty Hall sub-basement 
studios; I have attended senate meeting 
regularly; and I have met with faculty and 
administrators such as Richard Cyert, Brad 
Walter, Dean Modell and Dean Midani.
I have shown motivation and commit
ment as a senator. As President I will con
tinue to work toward the goal of improv
ing student life through improving the 
spacial and social conditions of the univer
sity and keep the students informed of their 
rights in student government.
No statement
Jim DenburgAllen Greenberg
Peter
Lonsky
Edward Welsh
No picture
I want to address your concerns. How do 
you feel about your education? What do 
you think of the quality of life outside the 
classroom? Do we need more parking? Do 
you feel the university is run too much like 
a business at the expense of the students? 
These are some of the concerns students 
have expressed to me. I am going to bring 
these concerns to the attention of the ad
ministration and by discussing these issues 
I hope to open communication and bring 
about our desired results. If we don't get the 
results we planned on I will explain to you 
the true results and their justification. I hope 
you will communicate more of your con
cerns to me in the near future.
HOW I WILL CARRY OUT COMPLAINTS 
DOffice hrs. in front of Doherty 
Hall for complaints.
2)Complaints researched by 
committee.
3)Bring committee's results before 
administration.
4)lnform you of outcome. 
PROPOSED ACTIONS
 Continue the push for student 
union.
 Bring different organizations 
together to unify campus.
 Push for new athletic conference 
to increase school spirit.
 Get you involved in decision 
making.
 Strengthen communication bet
ween students and administration.
 Support creation of new clubs.
QUALIFICATIONS
My qualifications include President 
of Theta Xi fraternity, Student 
Govt. Rep. for IFC, Chairman of 
Miracle Mile Fund Raiser for Multi
ple Sclerosis-'85.
Student solutions must be implemented 
in order to solve student problems. I am a 
strong advocate for students making policy 
on campus and ahve fought as a member 
of the Retail Stores Committee for the 
students' right to purchase contraceptives 
in our student stores. As a member of the 
same committee, I will continue my active 
fight to decrease the outlandish profits of 
all supposedly non-profit campus retail 
stores (especially the art and book store) by 
lowering prices, instead of using their illgotten gains to fund other university pro
jects. I will work to obtain a liquor license 
for the pub despite the administration's 
previous denial, and fight against the pro
posed dry rush. I will advocate to the Board 
Trustees greater funding for athletics and
will continuously seek student input on the 
new student center.
A Student Senate table should be placed 
in Skibo where all questions/suggestions 
would be responded to and answers 
displayed on a highly visible public bulletin 
board.
As a Student Senator, I sponsored the 
original resolution on South African divest
ment to allow students to express their 
viewpoint on this issue during the election. 
I will continue to fight against administra
tion censorship of controversial speakers. 
Please consider me when voting for Student 
Government President so that I can better 
represent your opinions in areas of concern 
to us all.

---------------------------------------------------

As a Senator who has already 
served two consecutive years on 
Student Senate, I have a strong 
backround and knowledge of the 
people that can get things done. I 
intend to listen to your ideas, use 
my experience to slowly, but sure
ly, get things done. I have a strong 
enthusiasm for Senate and I can 
and will spend a lot of time in mak
ing this school a better place to be, 
especialy by facilitating closer ties 
between you, me and the univer
sity community. A vote for me will 
be a vote for yourself. Please con
sider me, Tamal Mukherjee, when 
you vote!
Leslie Frank
It seems to me that many CMU 
students don't realize what Student 
Senate has the potential to do. Dur
ing my past term as an H&SS 
Senator, I've responded to student 
suggestions and complaints by ef
fecting an extention in the hours of 
Tech field and tennis court lighting 
and working to solve problems 
with the Escort and Shuttle ser
vices. These changes are steps 
toward a higher quality of student 
life, but much more can be done. 
More signifigant issues can be 
tackled. A Student Senator has to 
take the initiative and make contact 
with other students. A vote for me 
is a vote for your interests.
Michael Scanlon
Hi! As an H&SS Senator and I will work 
with Senate and the school administration 
to solve student's problems. I'm anxious to 
begin working toward a more enjoyable 
CMU atmosphere for students. Student life 
at CMU is getting bettter, and I hope to help 
accelerate this process of improvement. As 
a current member of the Senate's Academic 
Affairs Committee, I am concerned with 
both the enhancement of the student faculty 
relationship and the maintenance of 
academic standards, if not their improve
ment. I believe students can get a good 
education and still have time for less 
weighty pursuits. Finally, I entcourage all 
students to vote on April ninth and tenth. 
I especially encourage all H&SS students to 
vote for me. As I will work as hard as I can 
to serve the student body. Thank you.
3 Seats
5 Seats
Senatorial
I H&SS 
Dave
Plain and simple:
I'll get the job done. Can't stand 
ridiculous proposals and I'm 
relatively honest. Most important if 
you have a question I've got or will 
get an answer.
No posters because there's no cash.
I hate the picture too.
Also running: Matthew Noesen
Elise Friedland Darryl Phillips
S U PA 2 Seats
Peter Cohen
Toby Ayre, running for a seat on 
Student Senate for MCS, has been 
a senator for one semester now. 
Knowing that Student Senate works 
for all of the CMU campus, Toby 
has worked on re-instaling the 25c 
Coke program, the campus traffic 
problems, and keeping the laundry 
and vending machines operation. 
Always open to suggestion ions for 
improvements, Toby will continue 
to work hard on improving life at 
CMU.
Also running:
Nadine
Flynn
Gregory Staresinic
Senate must pressure the Ad
ministration to stop creating 
obstacles to the free expression of 
ideas on campus. Free speach is a 
necessary component of a quality 
education and must be preserved 
so that all students can become 
thinking individuals.
Senate must also ensure that the 
Administration knows and con
siders students' views on ALL ac
tions and policies which affect 
studenK I will do this through 
direct contact with the Administra
tion and by supporting referenda. 
I helped to get the divestment 
referendum on today's ballot, and 
will advocate future referenda to let 
the students' voices be heard.
During the past four semesters as Chair
man of the Campus Affairs Committee of 
Senate, I helped to make student life better 
by taking actions ranging from improving 
the library facilities to improving the safety 
of pedestrian traffic on the streets surroun
ding CMU. I worked to better represent 
SUPA students at CMU, through meetings 
with administrators and by attempting to 
reduce SUPA's lecture size. Please vote to re
elect me.
4 Seats
Andrew Robitshek
Good morning, my name is An
dy Robitshek and I'm running as a 
CIT senator. As a freshman, I feel 
I would question more of the things 
done on the campus than someone 
who has been here longer and 
takes many of these things for 
granted. Yet I do have experience, 
as I am the co-chairman of the 
Retail Stores Student Advisory 
Comittee. We are looking into 
prices and policies for the 
bookstore, artstore, and Margaret 
Morrison Plaza. I feel the students 
should have more input in the 
policies on campus, such as pro
fessor tenure. As a senator I would 
try to give students more of a voice 
in the happenings of our campus.
vhh
Eric*Rocher^
To what point should students govern 
themselves? You can choose between hav
ing CMU "taking care of you" to having 
students live together as an autonomous 
community.
As chairman of the Student Senate for one 
session I have dealt with some issues of self 
government. I have participated in asking 
the administration to improve escort shut
tle service and to consider astro-turfing the 
IM fields. I have been on the parking com
mittee, Educational Affairs Council and 
AIDS advisory committee.
I believe students should govern 
themselves, to a point. Please vote.
Glenn Kornbrek
Whenever Senate elections come 
around, CFA does a vanishing act. 
Very few students vote, and 
sometimes there isn't ever anyone 
running. Why is this? Students in 
CFA don't vote because they feel 
Senate can't do anything.
I challenge students in CFA to do 
two things. First, vote for me. Se
cond, and more importantly, giving 
me a problem. If I solve your pro
blem, you not only gain faith in 
Senate as an organization, but alos 
gain a Senator who wants to solve 
your problems. If I don't solve it, 
then what have you lost if you 
weren't going to vote anyway?

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanApril 8, 1986
Afrikaners use Apartheid to protect their lifestyle
continued from page 5
tie trouble controlling their colony.
One reason that the whites were able to keep 
their national identity was that there were 
enough white women in the colony to establish 
white families. Despite a good deal of interracial 
mixing going on, enough white families were 
established so that a strong sense of being white 
or European grew, it was this ideology along with 
religious and economic facts that created the 
problems of modem South Africa.
During the early years of the colony, an 
economy based on non-white labor developed. 
Slaves from Madagascar and Asia were im
ported and the mixing of these people and white 
colonists led to the formation of another racial* 
group, the coloureds. These imported slaves 
were relatively cheap and 50% of white families 
had at least one. The convenince created by 
slavery, as Professor Elphick pointed out, was 
influential in formation of white South African 
beliefs.
Because of the lack of resistance towards the 
Dutch colonists (known as Afrikaners) there was 
a large amount of expansion from the Cape in
to territory to the east. However the end of the 
18th century brought about some important 
changes within the colony. First of all, the 
Afrikaner expanion. was met with a correspon
ding eastward expansion by large, powerful 
African groups, primarily Bantu-speaking tribes. 
This collision would become more important in 
the mid-19th century. Another change was with 
the governing body. Until 1795, South Africa 
was governed by the Dutch East India company, 
who placed few restrictions on the actions of their 
colonists. However, in 1795, the second period 
in South African history began, that of British 
rule.
Period of English Rule
The British took over the Cape in 1795, 
returned it to the Dutch in 1803 and regained 
it again in 1806. The British brought with them 
rather more liberal views than those held by the 
Arikaners. The various economic restrictions 
placed on non-whites, such as pass Laws and 
child apprenticeship, by the Afirkaners were op
posed by the British, especially the missionaries. 
Legislation was introduced in the 1820s that 
began to place non-whites on the same level as 
whites in terms of the law and courts. In 1828, 
Ordinance Number 50 was passed which 
liberated non-whites from the economic restric
tions placed on them. By 1834, the British 
Parliament abolished slavery throughout its em
pire, including South Africa.
These actions were seen by the Afrikaners 
(who were mainly farmers) as a threat to their 
way of life, so during the 1830s, the Afrikaners 
expansion known as the Great Trek began. It 
was this eastward expansion that marked the 
beginning of Afrikaner nationalism. The 
Afrikaners wanted to preserve what they felt was 
the right sort of life, and withdraw themselves 
from what they saw as a corrupt society being 
created by-the British. The Afrikaners, steeped 
in Old Testament beliefs, had the sense of be
ing chosen people in the promised land.
The Afrikaners essentially established 
themselves in two republics , the Orange Free 
state and the Transvaal, gained at j*reat risk 
from the expanding African tribes. Great Bri
tain attempted to repress this rebellion-bywithdrawal, but found it too expensive and 
granted the afrikaners independence within 
their Republics. The conservative, traditional 
view of the Afrikaners had overcome the liberal 
British view and would survive and grow dur
ing the 19th century. Sacral nationalism, the
creed of South Africas presently governing Na
tional Party, began in the 1870s with the Socie
ty of True Afrikaners who elaborated on the 
details of what Afrikaner nationalism should 
stand for.
Another important development within South 
Africa around this time was the descovery of 
diamonds, in 1867, and gold in 1885. This pro
pelled South Africa from a relatively backwater 
country into one of the wealthiest nations. Later 
discoveries of other imortant minerals increas
ed South Africas economic importance. 
However the gold and minerals required a large, 
cheap labor force to make mining profitable. 
Also, the influx of people into the mining areas 
created a need for more workers in the areas of 
food production and supply. All this muscle 
power was supplied by the blacks, many of 
whom were required to carry passes and were 
accomodated in closed compounds, 
characteristics of present black labor control.
The final period in South African history is 
the 20th century, in which more concrete con
trols were placed on blacks, leading to the idea 
of Apartheid. Black resistance groups, mainly 
moderate at first, also arose in the 20th cen
tury in 1910, the Cape Colony (the most liber
al and politically free for non-whites) and the 
three other colonies (Orange Free State, 
Transvaal and Natal) joined to form the more 
or less independent Union of South Africa. The 
South Africa Act, which established the Union, 
retained the existing limitations on non-white 
franchise and forbade their election to 
parliament.
This new, white-ruled South Africa faced 
various problems because of the modernization 
of their economy. Blacks flooded into the ma
jor cities of South Afica, acquired the skills 
needed to hold higher level positions and were
competing with whites for skilled jobs. 
Whites(especially the Afrikaners) felt threaten
ed by the blacks, not only were they becoming 
economically strong, but they acquired better 
education, skills in English and began deman
ding political rights.
All the whites in South Africa saw that 
had to be done if they were to retain their 
previous white dominance and economic 
privileges. To this end, the whites created a 
series of legislative acts, including the Nature 
Labour Relations Act of 1911 and the Nature 
Land Act of 1913, which were to guarantee 
white dominance. This set of ad hoc ar
rangements repressed blacks and led to the 
development of African rights groups.
The first and probably most important of 
these groups, the African national Congress 
(ANC) was formed in 1912 by a distinguished 
group of chiefs and educated leaders. The ANC 
was the earliest manifestation of African na
tionalism. However, they did not want to create 
an independent state. Instead, they sought to 
win Africans rights within the white state. 
Their strategy was based on trusteeship, 
liberalism and above all moderatism.The ANCs 
attempt to win democratic rights for Africans 
was led by various charismatic, educated 
leaders, but ended in 1960 when it was outlaw
ed. Other, more radical movements developed 
along with the ANC. These movements, which 
included the Pan Africanist Congress, follow
ed an orthodox or Black Power nationalism, 
advocating the unification of the whole of Africa.
These African movements further worried 
white South Africans and when the Afrikaner 
Nationalist Party came to power in the 1948 
elections on an Apartheid platform, previous 
white policy was carried to its ultimate level.
continued on page 9
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling r Student Development Center...............268-2922
After 5:00 p.m., a recorded message tells how to reach the staff 
member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh..................................................................782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive 
listening.
Drug Connection......................................................................... 854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 59 p.m.
Tel-Aid...........................................................................................281-4864
A series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safe
ty issues. Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh 
telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs.
SUBJECTS, of college age or older, needed for deci
sion experiment sponsored by the Department of Social 
Sciences of Carnegie-Mellon University.
The experiments, which last no longer than two hours, 
will be held on the Carnegie-Meflon campus on week
day evenings or Saturdays. Subject's payment is depen
dent on the group outcome of individual decisions of 
participants and can vary between $0 and $18. Apart 
from this variable pay, everyone who is confirmed for 
participation and shows up at the appropriate time is pad 
$3 at the end of the experiment, so the final pay can 
vary between $3 and $21. For participation and/or infor
mation call 268-3227 workdays between 9am and 3pm.
ATTENTION
Students interested in working 
as a ticket taker for rides for 
carnival can pick up applica
tions from
Skibo Info Desk 
Wednesday, April 9

---------------------------------------------------

April 8, 1986The TartanPage 9
Minutes of Student Senate
Minutes of the Student Senate, March 18,
1986
Meeting called to order 7:05.
Present: Appelbaum, Ayre, Bram, Cohen, 
p Flynn, Frank, Greenberg A, Greenberg M, 
Hausman, Jagerski, Kaplan, Kornbrek, Lee A, 
Lonsky, McDonnell, Mukherjee, Murphy, 
Rocher, Sheinfeld, Salomon, Taylor, Welsh. 
Absent: Appelbaum, Ayre, Bollinger,' Giles, 
Hynes, Noesen, Novak, Patnaik, Trampel, 
Whysel. (All excused)
Audience Participation: none.
Dean Cox: Dean Cox thanks Tamal and the 
Funding and Recognition Committee, and Fred 
for their work on next years budgets.
Dr. Crecine would like to attend the next Senate 
rb meeting to speak on the Athletic Center.
President: On Mar.20, the committee of of the 
Book Store, Art Store will meet to look into 
financial status questions.
SDC: Fred Rogers discussed the possibility of 
signing a contract with an outside vending agen
cy, since there have been many problems with 
the present set up.
Chairman: Tuition committee met and will 
report next week at Senate mtg.
Divestment referendum will be voted on and 
debated next week.
** Academic Affairs: Doherty 1212, 1112 We 
7500, and Gregg Hall will be renovated. About 
$300,000 per year is being spent on renova
tions. There is a list of things being done in the 
Senate office.
The Dont Panic lectures were a success. 
$57.20 was spent on advertising.
Campus Affairs: Pete and Lesley went to see 
the athletic director concerning the lights on the 
tennis courts and Tech field. Lights off: courts 
- 1:00am, field - 2:30am.
Funding & Recognition: Senate moved into 
committee as a whole.
Spring budgets for July 1986 to June 1987. 
The following is next years bugets as passed by 
Student Senate.
Organization Name 
Activities Board 
Activities Fair 
Astronomy Club 
Baseball Club 
Carnegie Melting-Pot 
Carnegie Tech Radio Club 
Chinese Student Org. 
Explorers Club 
Forbes Gallery 
Gaming Club 
Hockey Club 
Kiltie Band
Korean Student Association
Rugby Club
Spirit
Student Corporation
Student Senate
Tartan
Thistle
WRCT
Total Subsidy
Subsidy
$121,275.00
$1,777.00
$591.00
$2,534.00
$335.00
$3,180.00
$1,085.00
$1,466.00
$6,725.00
$205.00
$9,132.00
$5,735.00
$1,165.00
$1,052.00
$6,447.00
$1,540.00
$8,775.00
$26,810.00
$14,187.00
$33,574.00
$247,590.00
a
f'i
Original Hot Dog Shop
301 Forbes Avenue 
9 a.m.-4:30 a.m. Sun.-Thurs. 
9 a.m.-6 p.m. Fri.-Sat.
Largest Selection of Imports 
in the City
Try our new V2 pound 
freshly ground hamburger 
32 varieties
\ A#N For your entertainment,
The Top of the O, above the O, 
features entertainment Friday and Saturday 
-large selection of imports available 
for consumption on premises 
-table service ^  " ; 'v
Minutes of the Student Senate. April 1, 1986 
Meeting called to order 7:05pm.
Present: Appelbaum, Ayre, Bram, Cohen, 
Flynn, Frank, Greenberg A, Greenberg M, 
Hausman, Jagerski, Kaplan. Kornbrek, Lee A. 
Lonsky, McDonnell, Mukherjee, Murphy, 
Noesen, Novak, Patnaik, Rocher, Sheinfeld, 
Salomon, Taylor, Whysel.
Absent: Bollinger, Giles, Hynes, Trampel, 
Welsh.
SDC: The Tartan Grill is now giving out ice 
cream tickets and is going to be using a new 
mixture of hamburger meat.
Chairman: Artificial turf will be put on Tech 
field or IM field.
The CMU Tuition committee has come out with 
its report on tuition increases for 1987-88. 
Academic Affairs: Faculty Course Evaluations 
came out this week. Take a look at them. 
Old Business: Senate decided to have a divest
ment referendum on the ballot for the spring 
elections. It states that As a CMU student, I 
feel that CMU should a)Partially b)Totally c)Not 
divest from companies that have assets in South 
Africa.
Announcements: Friday at 4:30 is Senate 
happy hour in Scotland Yard.
Laws tighten by Nationalist Party
Out of Committee of the Whole.
$3,000 has been allocated to AB Concerts for 
Spring Carnival concert.
AB Films has been allocated $12,000 for new 
projectors.
Spring Carnival was allocated an amount of 
money not to exceed $2,000 to rent buses to 
transport students to and from Carnegie Salutes 
Carnegie.
Womens Lacrosse Club recieved an extra 
allocation of $210 for goalie equipment. 
Meeting Adjourned 9:30pm.
continued from page 8
Apartheid essentially means separateness, 
which had existed long before. But the 
Nationalist Party created Apartheid legislation 
which was particularly authoritarian and 
repressive, homelands were set up in which 
blacks were placed according to the tribe they 
were descended from and Pass Laws were 
made more stringent. Economically, blacks 
were suppressed and relied completely on the 
whites for jobs.
Apartheid was inteded as a means for the 
salvation of the Afrikaners. It had some 
characteristics. The Afrikaners who imposed 
Apartheid were very sincere and believed it 
would bring justice. Blacks would have their 
own countries and South Africa would be sav
ed from its racial problems, however, for various 
reasons, including the whites continued ex
ploitation of the blacks as a work force, the 
system failed.
The Present Situation
The present situation in South Africa is as it 
always has been, confusing. The Afrikaners are 
split among themselves as to what should be 
done about the increasing unrest in the coun
try. Liberals see that change must come but 
about one-third of the Afrikaners are conser
vatives who feel Afrikaners should be commit
ted to their principles and stand firm. The 
english speakers, who hold a substantial amount 
of economic power do not have much influence 
in creating policy. However, with about $9 
billion invested in the country, they are recptive to the idea of eventual black rule.
Another important minority, the Indians also 
hold economic power and have been suppor
tive of the blacks since the 1950s. Although 
given some political rights, many Indians feel 
like second class citizens and want changes to 
be made.
Finally, the blacks show division over how 
changes should be brought about. Older blacks 
are less radical, many still believing in a 
moderate solution. However, the most influen
tial blacks are the children who control the 
villages. They believe in violence as a means 
for change and the era of protest politics has 
been set aside...replaced by the first phase of 
a militant revolutionary era. The seriousness 
of the situation is best exemplified by the state
ment of a youth leader who said, We are now
at war. If some kind of concrete resolution is 
not found within the next few years, South 
Africa may face its worst crisis ever.
Acknowledgements include President Cyert 
and Professor David Demarest for their assistance 
in writing this article.
Your favorite 
Wendys, Arbys, 
Kentucky Fried Chicken, etc 
delivered to your dorm. 
Call
687-FOOD
5:00 pm, to Midnite. 7 Days a Week. 
Dorms/Fraternities/Sororities Only
Collegiate Delivery Services, Inc.
-*h i.-'.--V' ' v'--v ' v*- - v" ~. :

---------------------------------------------------

IM field: a good place to start
Did it ever occur to you that there could be artifical turf 
on the IM field? Its not an unrealistic hope. There are cur
rently proposals before the administration to put an artificial 
playing surface on the field; its a good idea because a natural 
surface on the field does not do the job.
Natural turf cannot withstand the heavy use which the field 
gets. Because of the amount of rain we get here, and the 
number of times the ground thaws and refreezes, the field 
becomes rutted and uneven, resulting in a near epidemic 
of twisted ankles. The grass was torn up because the sur
face was so uneven. The field is now covered with rocks and 
dirt. The surface was then oiled to keep the dust down and 
prevent weeds from growing, leaving a hard-packed dirt 
surface.
Needless to say, the IM field is in unacceptably bad con
dition. Without grass, the field cannot be used for contact 
sports. In order for a good grass surface to grow, the field 
could not be used for an entire season, and then it would 
be torn up again.
Artificial turf will withstand heavy use and provide an allweather playing surface for the many students who use the 
IM field.
To date, the capital campaign has raised upwards of $60 
million. The students must ensure that a portion of that money 
trickles down into tangible improvements in student life here. 
Putting aritificial turf on the IM field seems to be a good 
place to start. Cost should not be the paramount issue, but 
in case you are interested, a rough estimate form Robert 
Ezatoff, Foreman of Grounds and Transportation, puts the 
price of this project at $2 million.
Referendum: Dont blow 
a good opportunity
Along with the election of a new Student Government Presi
dent, the April 9 and 10 ballots will serve another purpose. 
This year there will be a referendum on the ballot. The 
referendum will give students a chance to express their views 
on divestment in companies with assets in South Africa. 
Students may recommend a path of total, partial, or 
no divestment.
This referendum is a perfect opportunity for students to 
officially give an opinion on this major issue. It will give the 
administration and Board of Trustees a definite indication 
of the student bodys position on the topic of divestment. 
Dont blow the chance to tell the people who hold the purse 
strings exactly how you feel about the policies regarding in
vestments in South Africa.
If you dont feel that you have enough information to make 
a responsible decision, then take a few moments to read the 
information in this issue of The Tartan(see news) 
and do some reading on your own. As students, we do not 
live in a vacuum; it is time we took some responsibility for 
the conditions in the world around us.
Tartan candidate
It is the opinion of the Tartan editorial board that Jim Denburg will make an excellent Student Government President. 
This opinion is based in part on the candidates statement 
found on page 6, and also his performance at last Tuesdays 
debate. Denburg seems to approach the election with 
seriousness and respect for the office.
We hope that every activities fee-paying student will take 
a few minutes to vote for the candidate of his or her choice. 
We also hope that students take the time to read all of the 
candidates statements and make an informed, responsible 
choice.
Letters:
Gospel Choir snubbed by show
Editor:
Carnegie Salutes Carnegie 
seems to be the only thing that the 
public relations people talk about. 
Big name stars are coming to town 
to perform, and all of the musical 
organizations on campus are perfor
ming, all, except for the Voices 
United Gospel Choir.
When the choir asked the people 
of University Relations (the P.R. 
department) why we were not invited 
to perform, we were told that they 
did not know about us. One person 
from the department stated rudely to 
a choir member that we did not ex
ist, and that we should find a way 
to become an existing entity on this 
campus.
Just to set the record straight, we 
are an established non-funded stu
dent organization. Under our current 
name of Voices United, we have 
been in existence since 1982. Dr.
Student gives
Editor:
Recently the steps of Warner Hall 
was the site of a vocal anti-apartheid 
demonstration, I applaud the 
demonstrators energy and inten
tions. I do not, however, feel that 
Carnegie Mellon should divest in 
companies doing business in South 
Africa. Unlike our Board of 
Trustees, my opinion is in no way 
based on economics. It is based on 
an objective look at how we can best 
assist black South Africans gain their 
freedom.
The actual divestment of American 
corporations from South Africa 
might be a positive step in the move
ment to end apartheid. But this 
divestment cannot in any way be 
linked to CMU and other universities 
divesting in these corporations. This 
is readily apparent if we examine the 
corporate decision making process. 
The individuals who make major 
decisions like divestment are the
Cyert is very much aware of our 
presence, and expressed his interest 
by sending a representative to our 
performance for Dr. Martin Luther 
Kings birthday.
Not only is the president aware of 
the choir, but so are many others 
outside of the university communi
ty. Last year we sang back up for the 
rock group Foreigner, and on 
December of last year, we were the 
guest on TV 53s The Other Side. 
We performed at Cornell University 
on February 8 and 9 of this year. 
We have also performed at Pitt, 
Chatham, Kane Hospital, and 
various other churches throughout 
the city. For Black History Week, in 
conjunction with the Spirit organiza
tion, we hosted a Gospel concert in 
which other Gospel choirs perform
ed in the Ballroom. We also receiv
ed coverage in the current issue of 
Focus.
alternative to
members of the Board of Trustees. 
The Board does not answer to 
anyone but the Stockholder. As a 
stockholder CMU has some say in 
the policies of the corporation in 
which we own stock, because in 
essence we are an owner. If CMU 
divests it is no longer an owner and 
thus cannot exert any control over 
the policies of that company. Many 
people claim that if all of the univer
sities around the country divested it 
would create a financial burden on 
those corporations doing business in 
South Africa and this would force 
them to mend their ways, but this is 
simply not true. For every universi
ty selling stock there will be many 
Wall Street investors looking to buy 
it up. The end result being little or 
no financial hardship for the cor
porations and a bunch of apathetic 
stockholders. Clearly this will not 
help black South Africans. Nor will 
doing nothing. This is why I propose
As far as the question of our ex9 
istence is concerned, no one ques1 
tioned our validity when the choir | 
participated in the Halloween 1 
Phonathon to help raise money for 1 
the University. I might note that none 1 
of the other choirs or bands perfor1 
ming participated in the student 
phonathons.
It is sad to think that a choir who I 
helps remind the Pittsburgh area 1 
and other communities of something I 
positive going on at CMU would be 1 
left out at a time when the Universi1 
ty is to honor its founding father.
In closing, I would like to say that I 
on Saturday, April 12, we are | 
holding our annual spring concert in j 
the Wherett Room. For those of you 1 
in the college community who would*# 
be interested in finding out who we I 
are please drop by.
The members of the j 
Voices United Gospel Choir i
divestment I
that CMU and other universities 1 
organize a campaign, as I 
stockholders, to force corporations to I 
stop doing business in South Africa. I
O.K. I know what you're thinking, ^ 
CMU owns such a small portion of 
IBM, how can we ever force the 
Board to do anything. By ourselves 
we can't but in an effort like this we I 
could hopefully enlist the support of 
many of the unions around the coun
try. Unions and other organizations 
have over a TRILLION dollars in
vested in the stock market in the 1 
form of pension funds. Their support j 
would give the divestment movement g 
enough clout to get something ac 
complished. Pension funds control 
enough stock to make any Trustee 
nervous about losing his nice, cushy 
high-paying job. If their job is on the 
line I think Trustees can be taught 
a little social responsibility. The 
unions cannot afford to divest, they 
continued on pag ^

---------------------------------------------------

April 8, 1986The TartanPage 11
Students Against Apartheid encourage votes for divestment
by DEBRA MARTIN & CARL WEICHERT
Through recent petitioning, students have won 
the opportunity to add our voices to the increas
ing indignation toward Apartheid. A referendum 
on divestment will appear on the weeks Stu
dent Senate election ballots. As students, we 
must tell our trustees that we will 
no longer support the injustices of 
> the South African government with
rour endowment.
By maintianing investments in American cor
porations involved in South Africa, we are sen
ding a message to these businesses that their 
presence in South Africa is legitimate. It is not. 
These companies economically and politically
sustain a violent, oppressive government more 
than they can contibute to the welfare of black 
South Africans. American corporations bolster 
Apartheid through:
 taxes paid to the South African government. 
Between $.5 and $1.5 billion were paid by 
American companies from 1978 to 1984.
 dominating vital sectors of the South African 
economy. 70% of the computer market, 44% 
of the petroleum products market and 33% 
of the motor vehicle market are controlled by 
American bussinesses.
 products sold to the South African govern 
ment. They are required by law to sell
strategic materials and products to the South 
African government. Ford and General 
Motors sell vehicles to the South African 
military and police forces. Mobil sells 
petroleum products to the military and 
police. Computers by IBM and Burroughs 
are used by at least 18 government 
agencies including police, military, and 
Departments of Defence, Prisons and the 
Interior, all of which enforce apartheid laws. 
(CMU owns stock in each one of these 
companies.)
 the transfer of American technology and 
expertise which is helping South Africa 
consolidate its economic and industrial
strength. According to a Senate Foreign 
Relations Committee report, The net effect 
of American investment has been to 
strengthen the economic and military selfsufficiency of South Africas Aparthied 
regime.
This support of Apartheid is not and cannot 
possibly be offset by ethical employment actions 
like the Sullivan Principles signed by over 
half of the American corporations in South 
Africa. Even if every Sullivan signatory enacted 
the principles, they have little real impact. On
ly 1 % of the black work force is employed by 
American companies. Moreover, they do not adLetters continued:
Bidinotto responds to controversy over Bhopal lecture
*........................  Those who may wish to know what I really
said about the Bhopal disaster, may obtain a 
copy of my original article on the subject, 
Bhopal: The Fruit of Industrial Policy. Send 
$2.50 to: Peter Schwartz, Editor, The Intellec
tual Activist, 131 Fifth Ave., Suite 101, New 
York, NY 10003.
Or a verbatim photocopy of my speech 
transcript itself (slightly expanded from the ar
ticle) may be obtained from me for the price 
of copying and mailing. Send $4.00 to: Robert 
James Bidinotto, 422 Park Ave., New Castle, 
PA 16101.
I deeply appreciate the considerable space 
you have allowed me for this response. And I 
trust that this message, at least, will be 
translated into your pages with complete 
accuracy.
Robert James Bidinotto
Divestment?
continued from page 10
have their retirements to think about, but I think 
unions would be willing to support an effort like 
the one I just proposed.
Getting a movement like this underway will 
require a tremendous amount of work, much 
more than simply divesting. But, I think it is the 
responsibility of CMU and the rest of the na
tions universities to take the lead and push for 
the end of apartheid. I urge students to redirect 
their energies towards this goal.
David Knight 
Sophomore 
Industrial Management
Editor:
The controversy concerning my Feb. 14th 
speech at CMU on the Bhopal disaster has come 
to my attention. Since the bulk of the criticism 
stems not from those in attendance at my 
speech, but from readers of The Tartans alleg
ed account of it (Feb. 18th), I trust you will 
allow me the opportunity to reply at length.
Anyone basing his opinions on The Tartan ac
count would be gravely misinformed. Since I 
read from a prepared text (based upon a 
published article), an accurate record of my 
remarks exists. The Tartan article not only fails 
to convey my argument adequately and ac
curately, it repeatedly attributes to me in quota
tion marks remarks which I did not make.
What was the thrust of my lecture? That In
dian socialismconsisting of a vast thicket of 
industrial policy regulationslegally 
prevented Union Carbide from exercising its 
traditional responsibilities of siting, designing, 
building, staffing, managing and maintaining the 
Bhopal plant. At length and in specific detail, 
I demonstrated how political intervention by the 
Indian government was directly responsible for 
the unsafe conditions at the plant, and for the 
terrible disaster itself. And though one would 
never know it from the campus newspapers ac
count, I made that case systematically.
First, I examined the political ideology of In
dian industrial policy, and the specific laws 
which have a direct impact op foreign invest
ment in India. Second, I detailed the history 
of Union Carbides operations in India. Third, 
I showed how the Bhopal plant was the creature 
of political, not business decisionshow it was 
not the child of Western capitalism, but the 
illegitimate offspring of Indian industrial 
policy. Fourth (and perhaps most significant
ly), I proved that MICthe gas which leaked 
never had to be in India in the first place, ex
cept to satisfy the regulatory requirements of 
Indian industrial policy. Fifth, I traced the 
exact steps by which the Indian governments 
industrial policy directly undermined the finan
cial health and safety of the Bhopal facility. 
Finally, I described the sequence of events on 
the night of the disaster itselfdetails which 
support every element of this thesis.
I defy anyone to detect this line of argumen
tation in the Tartan account, which dismantled 
it into a chaotic pile of disconnected details, mis
quotations and garbled paraphrases. As a result, 
many readers naturally concluded that my 
speech and thesis werre themselves incoherent. 
Letters such as Prodipto Ghoshsbased en
tirely on the newspapers versionare not even 
worth a reply, since they argue against positions 
and facts I never advanced.
But while most critics (including those on the 
local computer bulletin board) have babbled 
self-righteously about a speech they did not 
trouble'themselves to hear, thanks to The Tar
tan s disappointing coverage I cannot blame 
them fully.
Predominantly, I must blame The Tartan ac
count for such misunderstandings. I do not ex
pect professional proficiency from a campus 
newspaper. But I expect at least that words ap
pearing in quotation marks be those actually ut
tered by the speaker. I expect that the logical 
structure of a speechthe line of argument 
be summarized accurately. And I expect that 
in paraphrasing an argument, the argument re
main intact.
Space considerations force me to offer but one 
final example, which combines misquoting, bad 
paraphrasing and mangling of one of my key 
points.
As I related, India was eager to have Union 
Carbide pesticides to advance its agricultural 
Green Revolution. But its industrial policy 
lawswhich aimed at such goals as promoting 
full employment, transferring Western 
technology into India, encouraging exports over 
imports and attaining industrial selfsufficiencymade simple purchase of Carbide 
pesticides insufficient to advance such poten
tial objectives. Carbide instead was to build a 
pesticide facility in Bhopal:
Initially, the facility was a formulation plant 
for raw pesticides imported from other places. 
Common pesticidessuch as one called 
Sevinwere simply diluted, packaged and ship
ped, a relatively safe and simple operation. 
Butin accordance with industrial policy 
Union Carbide was under constant pressure 
from the government to cut imports and reduce 
the loss of foreign exchange. To do this. Car
bide was required by its state-issued ooperating 
license to transfer to the Bhopal facility the 
know-how to manufacture first the basic 
pesticides, and subsequently, even their ingre
dients. Everything was to be Indianized
Now, to produce Sevinthe finished 
pesticidecarbon tetracholoride is mixed with 
alpha-napthol and a chemical known as methyl 
isocyanate, or MICthe chemical that leaked 
in the accident. Liquid MIC is a highly unstable 
and volatile chemical, and a deadly tox
in. . . MIC was not required in Bhopal while the 
factory simply packaged Sevin, its final product. 
But the logic of industrial self-sufficiency and 
technology transfer required the manufacture 
of Sevin from scratchand that meant dealing 
with its hazardous ingredients, including MIC. 
So in 1971, the Union Crabide fac
tory . . . began to import and store MICa 
chemical which never had to be in India in the 
first place, except to satisfy Indian policy.
Next, India required Carbide to manufacture 
even the ingredients of Sevinincluding MIC 
which led to construction of the now notorious 
MIC manufacturing plant at the Bhopal 
pesticide facility:
So here was the logic of industrial policy at 
work: industrial self-sufficiency required the 
manufacture of pesticideswhich required the 
presence of ingredientswhich required the im
portation of MIC. But that was not enough to 
satisfy Indianization: MIC, too, had to be 
manufacturedwhich required that the safer 
method of storage, 55-gallon drums, be aban
doned for the riskier method of giant steel tanks. 
Step by inexorable step, Union Carbides con
trol over the operations at Bhopal was disap
pearing. Carbidewhich had begun by simply 
packaging pesticides in Bhopalnow found its 
autonomous, Indianized subsidiary in the 
business of manufacturing and storing a dead
ly chemical in a technologically backward 
culture.
Ladies and gentlemen, I submit to you that 
those were not business decisions. Those were 
political decisions.
Here is how The Tartan conveyed this 
systemically-argued point:
To produce the pesticide, the plant needed 
to dilute with water a concentrated form called 
Sevin, which could be imported. However, 
(Bidinotto) inferred (sic), the logic of industrial 
policy required the actual manufacturing of 
Sevin, a chemical that never had to be in In
dia in the first place.
Not only does this utterly fail to capture even 
the bare essence of my argument, it confuses 
Sevin (the finished pesticede) with MIC (the 
deadly ingredient which leaked)making any 
point unintelligible.
In summary, amateurish journalism 
augmented by the ignorance and ideological 
prejudice of some campus scholarshave 
combined to immunize many from a perspec
tive which might deviate from todays comfor
table orthodoxies.
But at what cost? The tragedy of Bhopal need 
not have occurred. My speech was not written 
to denigrate the people of India. It was to spare . 
them and people everywhere replays of such 
politically-inspired catastrophes.
Doing that requires understanding; and in 
seeking understanding true scholars should pro
ceed without cultural and ideological prejudices. 
In the aftermath of so great a human tragedy, 
those who blindly cling to the culpable politicaleconomic orthodoxies of socialism and in
dustrial policy may be called many things; but 
humanitarian is not one of them.
The Tartan
Olve Peersen
Lisa D. McAnany
Editor-in-Chief
John Friedmann
Managing EditorBusiness Manager
Vijay ReddyJoshua M. LevineBruce Kasrel
News EditorFeatures EditorEntertainment Editor
Jill DorsonJack PollerMichael P. McHugh
Sports EditorPhotography EditorArt Editor
Albrecht T. PowellCeleste ('larkKathryn A. Sitter
Production ManagerAd ManagerTypesetting Manager
John BabichMohan EmbarDave Levy
Dossier EditorContributing EditorTartan Assistant
The Editorial appearing at the beginning of the 
opinion section is the official opinion of The Tar
tan editorial board. Columns are the opinions 
of individual authors who are not necessarily on 
The Tartan Editorial Board or Staff. Letters to 
the Editor are opinions of individual authors who 
are usually members of the Univerity communi
ty. A letter intended for publication must be sign
ed and include the writers address and phone 
number for verification. Names will be withheld 
upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to 
condense or reject any letter.
Copyright  1986 by The Tartan. The 
Editorial Board reserves the right to withhold 
from publication any copy it deems unfit for 
publication.
Office: Skibo 50. (412) 268-2111.
Mailing address: The Tartan
Carnegie Mellon University 
Box 17
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Funded by the Activities Fee All rights 
reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanApril 8, 1986
SAA speak for
dress human rights violations against non
whites, or denials of voting rights, free speech, 
full protection under the law and freedom of 
movement.
More importandy, the majority of South 
African blacks and their leaders have demand
ed foreign economic sanctions. In late 1985, 
73% of blacks polled said that they favored 
disinvestment by foreign firms (Businessweek, 
9/23/85).
Anglican Bishop Desmond Tutu, United 
Democratic Front leader Allan Boesak, and 
African National Congress president Oliver 
Tambo have called for disinvestment, despite 
a South African law which deems such a state
ment as high treason, punishable by imprison
ment. FOSATU, SACTU and COSATU, South 
Africas three largest black trade unions, who 
represent those who have the most to lose 
through disinvestment, have demanded foreign 
corporate withdrawal as a major means of 
change. South African blacks have called on 
Americans to end our harmful presence in their 
country. We must respond.
The Board of Trustees has stated that they 
do not want to politicize our endowment by 
divesting from South Africa. In fact, our endow
ment is already politicized. To take no action 
is direct support of the status quo in South
Divestment
Africa. Universities cannot affort to presume 
themselves outside of social and political 
issuesespecially Carnegie Mellon which is in
volved in the Pittsburgh community and on the 
cutting edge of research in the U.S.
The Trustees have stated that they are afraid 
that divestment will hurt Carnegie Mellon finan
cially. Vice President of Shearson/American Ex
press Dr. Robert Schwartz recently responded 
to this fear at the administration-sponsored 
South Africa Teach-in, saying that the facts 
and figures on divestment of securities of com
panies operating in the Republic of South Africa 
clearly establish that performance need not be 
lowered. He went on to list a number of 
methods by which Carnegie Mellon might 
reinvest our funds and still make profits.
The Trustees have expressed anxiety that 
divestment from South Africa will make 
Carnegie Mellon vulnerable to calls from other 
causes to divest in response to their particular 
issues. But South Africa is unique: nowhere but 
in South Africa is racism the ideological foun
dation of a nations legal, political and economic 
systems. The existence of other injustices in the 
world should not stop us from acting now against 
the outrage of apartheid.
According to the Student Handbook, the 
Trustees role is to mediate between the
Carnegie Mellon community and society-atlarge. This referendum is our chance to tell the 
Trustees that we want to end our support of 
Apartheid: Lets take it.
The power of 
Referenda
by Eric Rocher
This Wednesday and Thursday there will be 
a campus wide referendum on the issue of 
divestment. The wording of the referendum will
be:
As a CMU student I feel that CMU should
a) Partially
b) Totally
c) not
divest from companies that have assets in 
South Africa?
(Partial divestment implies that CMU will 
sell only its stocks in companies that do not 
strictly comply with the Sullivan Principles, 
or any other stronger code of conduct.)
Neither the student senate nor Alpha Phi 
Omega, the election board, endorse any of the 
options of the referendum.
To find out more about the referendum 
please read one or both of the articles in the * 
Tartan by Gavin Williams or myself.
The case for referenda is getting stronger. A 
cover strory in this weeks London Economist 
tells the story of the referendum.
We deserve more referenda because we are 
more educated and better informed than in the 
past, and so we deserve to have our say.
The Swiss have referenda all the time. They 
vote on issues such as adding an extra ward to 
a local hospital, shorter work week, no death 
penalty, and on March 16, no membership in * 
the UN.
In the United States there are more referen
da now than there used to be.
They have been a good way to over-ride 
powerful legislatures too much influenced by 
powerful men or corporations whom nobody has 
elected to anything.
This weeks referendum on divestment is a 
small step in making this university more 
democratic.
Eric Rocher is a Junior in Biology and is in 
the Health Professions Program. He is also chair* 
man of the Student Senate.
The Student Senate meets on Tuesday nights, 
7pm, in the Wherret room. All activity paying 
students are encouraged to participate.
Inquiring Minds
By THE INQUIRING STAFF
Think of what 200 million dollars will buy. 
Imelda Marcos could get some new shoes; Baby
Doc could finally buy a nice house; 9 
W'JfJoe Freshman could pay his next
fpr three years tuition, and Carnegie
Mellon could institute its new 
Master Plan. If it were our money, wed buy 
our books for next semester, but since its not, 
were stuck with the Master Plan. But what is 
in the Master Plan, anyway? Well, this week. 
Inquiring Minds examines Warner Halls best 
idea since Skibo.
The centerpiece of the plan, of course, is the 
brand new university center. The heart of the 
new Skibo will be the upgraded Gray Mat
ter II, featuring even more of what you use Gray 
Matter for. However, it does not live up to its 
billing that it embodies the total campus ac
tivity..." There are no plans for buggies, com
puters, or even gazorches in the new facility.
We will also be blessed with a few more 
science and engineering buildings on the 
Bureau of Mines land. The construction is 
dependent upon Carnegie Mellon buying the 
Naval Reserve Station. Once these buildings are 
built, there will be no more long lines for 
weekend brunch at Kiltie. 
The most controversial piece of the Master 
Plan is the Morewood Hotel, innocently refer
red to in the Plan as the Forbes Avenue Com
plex. In order to integrate the hotel with the rest 
of the campus, we feel that Housing should run 
it. That way, guests could enjoy the extra 
touches of communal bathrooms. RAs and a 
lottery each night for their room assignments.
The final part of the Plan (which we, by the 
way, like best) is the planned demolition of 
Scaife Hall. We feel that a quick way to raise 
money would be to tie the demolition date to f 
a certain dollar figure. For example, If you 
raise $10 million, well blow up the building 
at dawn. If you thought we raised a lot of cash 
for MS, imagine what we could do for Scaife 
Hall. If this idea were successful, it could be 
expanded to include Warner Hall, Donner Hall 
and Hunt Library.
In closing, wed like to remind everyone that 
today is Opening Day down at Three Rivers 
Stadium. We urge all students to go see the 
Pirates play, and when you buy your tickets, * 
you can tell em Dick sent you.
The Inquiring Staff is Stew Levine and ( hri* 
Williams.
Editors note: This is not an accurate account 
of the actual Master Plan. It is intended to be 
humorous and so does not necessarily accurate 
ly represent the facts.
Presenting the Manhattan apartment 
everybody said you'll never find.
n affordable 
luxury rental in 
New York's most 
preferred neighbor
hood, the Upper 
East Side.
Normandie 
Courtwith out
standing amenities, including 
spectacular rooftop Health Club 
& Pool.
We think it's The place for 
anybody who wants the best of 
New York. But to help you make
an educated com
parison, we have 
available a book 
called "Manhattan 
Moves." This is the 
insider's guide to 
apartment hunt
ing in Manhattan 
covering neighborhoods, hous
ing choices, listings, laws, and 
much more.
Send for more information 
about Normandie Court and your 
free copy of "Manhattan Moves."
NORMANDIE COURT
225 East 95th Street, New York, N.Y. 10128 Tel: (212) 289-5000
Fill out and mail coupon below to:
H
Milford Management, 42nd Floor
1271 Avenue Of The Americas, New York, N.Y. 10020
Your Name
School__
Address _ 
City____StateZip
Home Address 
City----------StateZip
Phone No.
Or Call loll Free 1-800-247-4041

---------------------------------------------------

......... I.I-, I............... .... II ' I ...........................I" .....................mi..................
E-Z
Mini
Storage
Self Storage Call 
276-6080
810 Trumball Dr. 
Greentree, PA 15205
Students, Faculty 
Store your goods 
for Less!
- easy accessY 
- you keep theMarriot f  1
key 75 I JQ I
- sizes 5x5 andE I3 1
uph1
Downtown
(121) Greentree Rd.
Holiday J 
Inn
Airport
If you are not able to use your tickets, please return them to the Skibo Information Desk or the 
University Relations Office. 5017 Forbes Ave. The demand for tickets has exceeded the availability. 
Thank you.
The Biggest Party 
in the History 
of the University
8:30 p-m. 
Saturday, April 19,1986
Host Andy Williams Guest Star Jerry Lewis
PlusRene Auberjonois Steven Bochco Barbara Bosson Rege Cordic Barbara Feldon Robert Foxworth Diane Fratantoni Charles Haid Dan Kamin Chauncey Kelley David Lander Nancy Marchand

---------------------------------------------------

------------------------------------------------------------
camegie^^^^H
mellonConcerts
- -,  - K ^r
' "* X '5v:
Jj& 

presents
     ' :   : 
A Spring Carnival
>-. - ...
featuring
EAST COAST OFFERING
Join them for an afternoon
of Free Jazz
Friday, April 18 
1:00 pm 
On the Cut
And, look elsewhere in The Tartan for 
another exciting concert announcement...
'%  r' " ' *>ih if 1 X *Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
Comics
Gallery
Classifieds
Events
By JOE FERRUGIA
Tartan Theatre/Film Critic
Japans most acclaimed film director, 
Akira Kurosawas crowning achieve
ment is his newest, and most impressive, 
film RAN. It marks the directors twentyeighth film and only proves that the 
seventy year old director is just getting 
better and better.
Kurosawa is no stranger to success. 
His earlier films like The Seven Samurai 
and Kagemusha are considered classics 
of the cinema. Now Kurosawa turns to 
The Bard for his latest effort. RAN 
translates into chaos or turmoil. 
The story takes place in Japan (where 
else?) in the late 1500s, a period when 
the countrys rival feudal domains ex
ploded in civil war. Lear is now 
Hidetora Ichimonji an aging warlord 
who is tired of the continual battle and 
wishes to enjoy a peaceful retirement. 
Lears three daughters are now 
Hidetoras three sons: Taro, the eldest 
son and rightful heir to his fathers 
kingdom, forces Hidetora to sign a 
document giving up all his power; Jiro,
the middle son, has his older brother 
assassinated during a battle and takes 
the kingdom for himself; and Saburo 
whose loyal but outspoken comments 
to his father cause him to be banished 
to a neighboring domain. Mastermin
ding the power struggles is Lady Kaede, 
who first urges her husband Taro to 
seize power from his aging father and 
later, when Taro is killed, seduces Jiro 
in order to maintain her position. Mieko 
Harada is absolutely brilliant as Kaede. 
Her performance packs power and 
energy, and the seduction scene was 
wonderfully acted. Kaede is a 
manipulating woman with a wide streak 
of evil in her, though she must always 
be the reserved Japanese noblewoman. 
When Harada allows her characters 
true colors to be seen, it is like an ex
plosion on the screen. ,
Shakespeares fool has become 
Kyoami, the only member of the court 
allowed to mock his lord and the only 
one who stays when Hidetora, driven 
mad by the bloodshed his decision to 
retire has caused, begins to wander the
blasted fields of his domain hearing the 
cries of his past victims in the echoes 
of castle ruins.
RAN is a story presented in grand and 
epic proportions. Kurosawas direction 
was superb and apparently quite 
necessary. There are scenes in which 
three different armies are all on the 
same field either waiting to battle or ac
tually fighting. Kurosawa moves them 
around like a chess master playing all 
three sides at once. Even with all the 
different encounters going on, the au
dience is always aware of the players 
since each army bares the colors of its 
lord. But RAN is a story about politics, 
a story about family and a story about 
an aging and foolish lord. These stories 
are all interesting. While Hidetora 
wanders mad, his son is planning to take 
control from his brother; while Saburo, 
the youngest son worries how he can 
save his father from his ruthless 
brothers.
There are many high points to RAN 
and only a few low ones. The scenes of 
Japan with fog, rain and even a typhoon
are extraordinary and almost haunting. 
Emi Wadas costumes (for which she 
won an Oscar) were beautiful and gave 
each character a seperate and easily 
recognizable identity. If there is one ma
jor flaw with RAN, it must be the per
formance of Tatsuya Nakadia as the 
Great Lord Hidetora. Hidetora is Lear 
and is one of the supreme roles in 
dramatic literature. Unfortanately, 
Nakadai doesnt seem to have the in
tensity for tragedy that is required here. 
His passion seems to be made up and 
exaggerated so that his pain doesn't 
seem genuine.
Be aware that the film is in Japanese 
and has subtitles, so it may be difficult 
to follow the action and read the 
dialogue at the same time. RAN is, 
however, a spectacular film. It comes 
alive with energy and keeps the au
dience interested for all of its 155 
minutes. If you like Shakespeare and if 
you like 16th-Century Japan then you 
must see RAN.
Tartan Movie Grade 3.80
Akira Kurosawas film epic RAN

---------------------------------------------------

Pa^e 16The TartanApril 8, 1986
Beautiful baroque singing
By STEFAN D. BROWN
Tartan Classical Music Critic
Musics Recreation with guest soloist soprano 
Julianne Baird presented a concert of Baroque 
music at Synod Hall in Oakland that put to rest 
any of the negative opinions we might have 
about this style. To a great extent we are divorc
ed from this era by both time and ideology. 
What we have retained musically is a view that 
little justifiably unknown men sat scribbling still 
another overture for still another petty baron 
recently returned from still another hunting 
escapade. This may not be totally accurate but 
to assert that the music therefore is inferior is 
to state a mistruth. All that is required are con
temporary artists trained to sympathetically in
terpret this music.
Julianne Baird is one such artist. Her parents 
were professors of medieval history and 
languages with her step-father loving to deliver 
speeches in Anglo-Saxon. At college in 
Rochester she had the good luck to be pick
ed by a Baroque specialist, Erich Schwandt, 
who wanted a singer protegee. Here she set 
to work in learning all the agrement, the 
highly structured system of French melodic or
namentation. Her Pittsburgh debut on Satur
day proved her to be a master of this style of 
music.
She possesses a small voice perfect for ensem
ble work in a small hall. It has warmth, color 
and emotion throughout its entire range. The 
only problem was that sometimes a direct forte 
attack on a note above the ledger would be shrill 
and off-key.
Baird brings an incredible amount of energy 
to her performances. It is not the unrestrained 
orgiastic energy of Berlioz but rather like water 
flowing through a gradually narrowing pipe. It 
comes out of the other end in a small quantity 
but with an increased and directed force. This 
energy was most apparent in the cantata
Lagrime mie (Tears of Mine) by the Italian com
poser Barbera (yes, a woman) Stozzi. The text 
is concerned with the conflicting emotions the 
lover experiences after his love has died. The 
surge of tears was effectively transmitted bycrescendo and decrescendo on a single tone 
followed by a rapid attack of staccatos. These 
two differing elements were woven into one 
clear statement by Baird. Her performance was 
even across the work.
La Mort de Didon by M. P. Monteclair is a 
cantata in which the vocalist must sing the roles 
of a narrator, the forsaken queen, and a moraliz
ing chorus. She accomplished this by slight 
changes in the timbre of her voice. Here, as in 
other pieces. Baird recognizes that her entire 
body is her instrument. She used spare but ef
fective facial and body gestures which did much 
to convey the conflicting emotions of the queen 
and distinguish between the characters.
Three operatic excerpts from Handel were 
her third selection. In these she clearly com
municated the joy she finds in singing. Tones 
were light and airy and in Sweet Bird (from 
L'Allegro, il Penserose, ed il Moderato based on 
words by Milton) she conveyed the aviary nature 
through perfectly performed ornaments. Never 
were these excessive and uncontrolled but 
always sympathetic and direcdy aimed at 
achieving a musical effect. The only problem 
is that she tends to look at her music too much. 
There should be more eye contact with the 
audience.
Musics Recreation, artists in residence with 
the Renaissance and Baroque Society, accom
panied Baird and performed two concerted 
works. They perform on Baroque instruments 
and with Baroque practices (most notably the 
lack of vibrato). The sonata La Paix du Parnasse by Couperin was technically correct but 
little ensemble was developed. It seemed more
at Synod Hall in Oakland
Soloist Julianne Bard is brilliant in her Pittsburgh singing debut.
like two duos: the continuo (Jillon Stopples 
Dupree on harpshchord and John Dornenburg 
on viola da gamba) against, not supporting, the 
baroque flute (Louise Carslake) and baroque 
violin (Dana Maiben). The Saillie movement 
exhibitied a fine duet without holes or uneven
ness between the wooden flute and violin. The 
tones were warm and appealing especially in
the lower register of the flute where the sound 
was almost as vocal as a fine contralto. The clos
ing Vivement was exactly that, full of life and 
energy. That directed energy. Here and 
throughout the effective use of ornamentation 
instead of the modern use of vibrato served to 
fill out and round off the musical statements.
continued on page 17
Scrwx^S
A STREAM OF GENIUS
FROM PHILIP GLASS
PHILIP 
GLASS.
Philip Glass takes the CBS cassettes  albums
songrethinks it compact discs
reshapes It and creates a completely new idea of 
what a song can be. These distinctively brilliant songs 
are the genius of Philip Glass flowing through a 
superstar ensemble of lyric collaborators: David 
Byrne. Laurie Anderson. Suzanne Vega and Paul 
Simon...crafted by vocal stylists: Linda Ronstadt.
The Roches. Bernard Fowler. Douglas Perry and 
Janice Pendarvis.
Philip Glass. Songs From Liquid Daysone of 
the most important new albums of the year.49
cassette
or
album
other Philip Glass titles 
also specially priced!
compact disc.. .$12.99
MUSIC and VIDEO
BETHEL PARK BOARDMAN PLAZA
Library Road Ybungstown
(833-9222) (216-726-8884)
MONROEVILLE MALL NORTH HILLS 
Main Entrance McKnight Road
Upper Level (856-7330) (367-2646)
DOWNTOWN 
6th & Oliver 
(261-1075)
OAKLAND 
Forbes Ave. 
(687-9433)
SPRING CARNIVAL 1986 HOLLYWOOD TRIVIA CONTEST
1. When is Peter Seller's Birthday?
2. What was the occupation of Rosanna Arquette's husband in Desperately Seeking Susan?
3. What is the name of the alien leader portrayed by Brian Bennehy in Cocoon?
4. What is the name of the bar that Arnold Schwarzenegger destroys in The Terminator?
5. What did Jason wear to hide his twisted identity in the Friday the 13th movies?
6. How many Oscars has Katherine Hepburn won?
7. How many Oscars did The Color Purple win?
8. What was the final line in King Kong?
9. What film won the first Oscar for best picture?
10. Who was the original Tarzan?
11. Who is Mia Farrow's mother and whom did she play in the movies?
12. Who is the sister of Olivia De Haviland?
13. How did Alfred Hitchcock appear in Lifeboat?
14. Where does Marlon Brando die in The Godfather?
15. How many Spencer Tracy/Katherine Hepburn movies were made?
16. What was the first movie that incorporated color?
17. Who was originally intended to play Dorothy in The Wizard of Oz?
18. Who won the best acting Oscar in 1977?
19. Who was the first black to win an Oscar? (film and year)
20. Who is Marion Morrison?
21. Who is Bernard Schwartz?
22. Who was the IT girl?
23. What is Woody Allen's real name?
24. What is the first name of Jimmy Stewart's wife?
25. What is the birthplace of Jimmy Stewart?
26. What was the character name of Marsha Mason's daughter in The Goodbye Girl?
27. Where did Gene Kelly go to High School?
28. Who was Vivien Leigh married to when she made Gone With the Wind?
29. Who was James Dean married to?
30. What was Mae West's last film?
31. Where was the treasure found in It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World?
32. What was the type of sunglasses that Lolita wore? 
33. Who is Steamboat Willy?
34. What was the substance of the Alien?
35. How many eggs did Cool Hand Luke bet he could eat in an hour?
36. What is the age and occupation of Ann Margaret's character in Carnal Knowledge?
37. Who was the first one to die in Psycho?
38. What earlier famous film did the star who portrayed Mozart in Amadeus appear in?
39. What was the purple pimpernel in the film The Court Jester and who was the star?
40. What does the Oscar stand on?
Entries must be submitted to the Information Desk, do Spring Carnival by 5pm, Monday, 
April 14. In case of a tie, the winner will be drawn. The prize is $50. The winner will be an
nounced at the Awards Ceremony on Saturday, April 19 at 11:30pm on the Cut.

---------------------------------------------------

April 8, 1986The TartanPa^e 17
Comic Relief benefit for the homeless a giant success
By AMANDA COHEN
Tartan Comedy Critic
We watched while Rock Music drummed up 
its stars in England and then America against 
hunger in Africa. We watched while Coun
try/Western rounded up its best for American 
farms. We watched music work for charities, 
but we waited for the inevitable: Comedy on the 
Live Aid scale. And on Saturday night, March
29, it happened. Comic Relief. The four-hour 
show (overtime from the originally scheduled 
three hours) was a benefit for the hidden poor, 
the homeless of America. Its hosts, Billy 
Crystal, Whoopie Goldberg, and Robin 
Williams simply called on about fifty of their 
closest friends from the comedy world who each 
entertained for under ten minutes and then hid 
in the wings until the finale.
As Comic Relief was broadcast on HBO, its 
participants could dare to get just a little raun
chy if the humor called for it, which was ac
tually rather rare. The range of comedic skill 
assembled was already evident in the opening 
sketch when the three hosts rolled through every 
character they could collectively muster in a 
continuous dialogue which did touch sparingly 
upon the situation of the homeless.
The show continued with stand-up, sketches, 
and some musical performances, with the com
edy worlds own classic reunions, combinations, 
and new artists, just like Rock benefits. Henny 
Youngman, Sid Caeser and Jerry Lewis sparkl
ed again, and Second City Improv actors were 
reunited again in new sketches. The unlikely 
duo of Richard Belzer and Weird Al 
Yankovic were paired up in a rap about 
Americas surprising ability to achieve things 
like ziploc baggies, but inability to prevent the 
suffering of the homeless. Three generations of 
Saturday Night Live came face to face as Larraine Newman (Michaels era I) and Jon Lovitz 
as the pathological liar (Michaels era II) ap
peared in a sketch which centered around Mary 
Gross (Ebersol era) Dr. Ruth Westheimer im
pression. Some performers gave video clips to 
be shown in their stead even when they were 
present; David Letterman did a short horror clip 
with Paul Schaffer and writer Chris Elliot, and 
Firesign Theatre showed a piece from their new 
video, Eat or Be Eaten. Relative newcomers 
like Garry Shandling and Paul Rodriguez had 
their turns in the stand-up spotlight, and a 
flustered Gilda Radner had to deal with a phone 
call from Miss Emily Litella.
Other scheduled stars like Joan Rivers, Steven 
Wright, and Yakov Smirnoff were bumped as 
the show was already more than an hour over 
schedule, but they turned up in high gear for 
the finale. It began as a music finale, and a sop
py one at that, but it quickly matured into its 
true form; a comedic finale. The chorus would 
set up classic straight lines which the comedians 
would take turns answering with punch lines in 
their own styles, if not their own jokes, one at 
a time a la We Are the World. Even if not 
every line was a killer, the presence of so many 
comedians was thrilling.
In most group comedy efforts, the stars at
tempt to portray their work in comedy as a funfilled, laughing breeze of an occupation, while 
in actuality comedy is just a little bit more dif
ficult than death. There will always be comedic 
competition (who gets how many minutes? Who 
follows whom?), but there is also a camaraderie. 
Comic Relief, happily, appeared to com
municate more camaraderie in the family of 
comedy than anything else. Chances are that 
there was far more tension backstage than ever 
showed onstage as top television comedians 
were pushed back as newer, stranger comedians 
got airtime. Joan Rivers probably wasnt too 
happy about losing her time while a comedian 
named Bobcat got to perform in a shower 
on-camera. Still, the camaraderie was
there....the show was a celebration of comedy, 
in addition to being a fundraiser for the 
homeless in America.
The term comic relief has long stood for 
that delicious interlude of relative humor in 
tragic or dull drama. Comic Relief hoped to 
have the same effect on America. But it had the 
opposite effect within itself. Every half-hour or 
so, short documentaries (or baby-docs, as Bil
ly Crystal called them) would depict the plight 
of the homeless families, men, women, 
teenagers, and children. These short films were 
seriously introduced by comedic actors 
throughout the show. No performer forgot the 
cause; Michael Keaton talked about the wonder
fulness of having a home, and George Carlin 
did his classic and relevant Place for my Stuff 
which explained that a home is nothing more 
than a big pile of your stuff with a roof on it.
The cause never left the minds of the artists, 
and the phone number for pledges. It was 
estimated at one point that donation were boun
cing in at a rate of about $10,000 a minute. 
That number may have been even higher had 
it not been for a major technical difficulty on 
the part of HBO. The cable company had stated 
that it would unscramble the video transmission 
of the charity event for non-subscribers who 
normally got a garbled version on cable. Time 
and Newsweek magazines both attested to this 
claim. However, at showtime, the vision remain
ed scrambled in some areas. Some non
subscribers were able to revert to live radio 
broadcasts, but visual performances by the likes 
of Michael Davis and Harry Anderson were all 
but lost, as were the occasional silent feature 
clips. Fortunately, a 90 minute version of the 
highlights of the show will be broadcast on Fri
day, April 11th.
On a smaller scale, comedy clubs around the 
country have been collecting for the homeless, 
and the clubs were listed at the end of the show.
Clubs like Carolines in New York and the Im
prov in L.A., which were launching pads for 
many of the performers, were united as they 
showed the live broadcast. Comedy was united 
for the homeless. Like Live-Aid, the charity 
doesnt stop when the spotlights fade. The tollfree number for donations to Comic Relief is 
still open. The number is 1-800-528-1000 and 
will be open as long as there are needy, 
homeless people.
It was easy to see by the work of Comic Relief 
that comedians recognize suffering. While the 
charity drive centered around laughter, the con
clusion of each baby-doc reminded the au
dience; Comic Relief: Its no joke. Seeing 
comedians focus so much energy on such a 
serious issue helped prove that there is more 
to comedy than getting a laugh. During the 
finale, Peter Bergman of Firesign Theatre 
helped define comedy by saying, You know 
what they call a comedian who doesnt get any 
laughs? A Philosopher.
continued from page 16
The Duexieme Recreation de Musiqueoi J. M. 
Leclair was flawed only in that the flute could 
have been louder throughout (or the continuo 
softer). Worth special mention was the Menuet 
I & II. The artists took this very severe and 
structured dance form and gave it the added 
life, playfulness, and joy that the music actual
ly expresses. The Chaconne was well played as 
the individuality of the variations came across 
while the movement as a whole retained one 
single coherent drive and development. These 
are definitely musicians who are experts of their 
craft.
Future concerts of the Renaissance and Baroque 
Society are on May 3 and 17. Musics Recrea
tion returns on the later date. Everyone interested 
in learning or relearning about Baroque music 
is encouraged to attend.____________________
Carnegie Mellon Drama presents
A HOT NEW MUSICAL
IffilWmamm cmu
Computer Store
PERFORMANCES BEGIN TUESDAY APRIL 15TH 
THROUGH APRIL 27TH - 11 SHOWS ONLY
Faculty & Staff $8. Students & Senior Citizens $7.
BUY 5 SONY 3.5" DISKS ... GET A FREE 
STORAGE CASE WITH COLLEGE EMBLEM! 
Who invented the 3.5" disk? Sony did. For 
disks that perform to the highest standards, its 
a smart move to go to the source. And were 
smart enough to know you need a place to put 
your disksso when you buy 5 Sony 3.5" 
Micro Floppydisks, well give you a free 
storage case with _ 
your college emblem! Y.
FOR RESERVATIONS: 268-2407 
KRESGE THEATRE  COLLEGE OF FINE ARTS

---------------------------------------------------

Scream for
Pre Sale of Carnival Ride 
Tickets 
Strip of 7 tickets for 
$3.50. 
SKIBO Info Desk
Monday April 14 - Thursday 
April 17
Funded by Activities Fee
MATH AND ENGINEERING GRADS
Did you distinguish yourself at Carnigie Mellon?
If so, then come to Oracle Corporation and distinguish yourself again!
If your in the top 10% of your graduating class and have other 
accomplishments you would like to brag about, we want to talk to you.
Oracle Corporation is a fast-growing, successful company that has 
established itself as a leader in the software industry with its premier 
realtional database product, ORACLE. ORACLE is a SQL-based relational 
database product that includes a set of integrated application develop
ment and dcision-support tools.
Oracle Corporation will offer you:
Fascinating and challenging work. We need staff for these 
projects: distributed database, interactive graphics, and 
networking of heterogeneous machines, to name a few. You will 
work on a variety of systems, including new IBM products, 
Apollos, Suns, MicroVAXes, and many PCs, including the 
IBM RT/PC.
*A superior work environment in brand headquarters 
located 20 miles south of San Francisco.
* Exceptional salaries and benifits, and equity in the 
company.
*A signing bonus. If you meet the Oracle standard, you may 
be eligible to receive a one-time bonus equal to 25% of your 
starting salary.
I am looking primarily for people to work in our Development groups, 
but there are openings in our OEM, Field Sales and Support, Corporate 
Support, Consulting and International divisions as well. If you are in
terested in any of these areas, please call me at the number below. We 
would like to share our success with you.
Larry Lynn, Oracle Corporation 
20 Davis Dr.
Belmont, CA 94002 
415/598-8000
FALL SEMESTER ADVANCE REGISTRATION
Advance Registration for the Fall 1986 Semester will be on Wednesday and Thursday, April 16 and 17. All students, undergraduate and 
graduate, are expected to register on these days if they wish to enroll at CMU this fall. If you wont be returning for reasons other than 
graduation, please file a Withdrawal Form, clearly marked Fall 1986, with your department. If you are unable to register April 16 
or 17 (i.e. youre studying off-campus), ask your advisor to process your registration, or call the Registrars Office for special instructions.
The Schedule of Classes Fall Semester 1986 is available at the Skibo Information Desk and inside Baker Halls main entrance. The schedule 
contains next semesters course offerings, instructors, times, and rooms, as well as complete registration and enrollment information. Please 
obtain a copy, and carefully read and follow its instructions.
A single registration form, the Registration and Demographic Data Document (R3D), will be used for registration. Your R3D is available 
in your department office (in the H&SS Academic Advisory Center at BH 161 for H&SS freshmen) and should be used to update demographic 
information and to list your Fall Semester schedule for advisor approval.
***** Advance Registration Instructions *****
1. Pickup your R3D from your department and update/correct the demographic information.
2. Pickup a Schedule of Classes Fall Semester 1986 at the Skibo Information Desk or inside Baker Halls main entrance.
3. Plan a schedule with alternatives, and meet with your advisor to have the schedule approved. You cannot register until you have 
received advisor approval. Many advisors will extend office hours next week, but contact yours for specific approval information.
4. On Wednesday and Thursday, April 16 and 17, between 9:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., go to each department teaching the course(s) you 
wish to register for to obtain registration approval.
5. After obtaining all approvals, return the R3D to your department as soon as possible, but no later than July 14 (undergraduates) and 
July 28 (graduate students). Even if you dont get all approvals, turn your R3D in anyway; you can begin adding and dropping courses 
after you turn in your R3D.
If you need further information or assistance, contact you department or the Registrars Office, 268-2004.
APRIL 16 and 17

---------------------------------------------------

April 8, 1986The TartanPage 19
W
City Theatre presents lackluster performance
CORNELL UNIVERSITY, BOX 96, B12 IVES, ITHACA, \Y 14853
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Entertainment Editor
The trials and tribulations of growing old have 
been the subject of many successful theatrical 
productions. Just this summer Cocoon graced 
the silver screen with its warm comedy and 
classy acting, and on Broadway I am not Rappaport (starring Judd Hersh and Cleavon Lit
tle) is a definite Tony contender. Here in Pitt
sburgh, the City Theatres production of Pain
ting Churches4 is not so successful.
Written by award-winning playwright Tina 
Howe, Churches is the story of a daughters 
visit home to her aging and senile parents. The 
daughter, Mags Church, is a Soho artist who 
wants to finally paint a portrait of her parents. 
Since she rarely visits home, she is very sur
prised to find that both her mother and father, 
Fanny and Gardner Church, are finding a hard 
time dealing with old age.
This is not a play about senility or old age, 
comments director Marc Masterson. It is a play 
about the lack of communication among family 
members, and human beings as a whole.
Although Churches is dubbed a comedy, 
it is rarely funny. Howes heart warming touches 
of home are nice and gentile, but leave little 
room for real honestly humorous dialogue. The 
humor is based on the pathetic state of the 
parents, hardly a laughing matter. And even 
when the play is funny, the story line has to go 
way out of its way to accommodate for it.
When the play isnt gasping for laughs, it is 
very slow and dull. Miss Howes script is bub
bling over with unrealistic, trite, and inconsis
tent chatter. In an early scene we see the mother 
standing around the house wearing only a silly 
hat and underwear as she greets her daughter, 
and in a later scene see is perfectly sane as she 
lays a highly philosophical guilt trip on Mags. 
Even the way the parents feel about their 
daughters talents is inconsistent. One minute 
they are fighting over who she gets her talent 
from, the next they could hardly care about the 
fact that she is being exhibited in the best gallery 
in New York.
Compounding the ill effects of a muddled 
script is Kelly Mauer as Mags. Her performance 
was forced and erratic. At the close of the first 
act we see her big scene4 where she tells her 
parents how she was banished to her room 
because of bad table manned -instead of eating 
she decided to make a giant sculpture out of 
crayons on her radiator. Bizarre yes, believable 
no. Throughout the whole scene we see forced 
tears and very contrived emotions. This was a 
major turning point in her life and all she can 
say is I have abilities.
Denise Huot is convincing as Fanny, but the 
role is s annoying that her performance can 
do little to save it. Every scene she is laughing 
and crying about without any real explanation. 
It is not until the very end that we even catch 
a glimpse of what she is all about.
There is one very bright spot in this mess, 
though. As Gardner, Bingo OMalley is ab
solutely marvelous. His mannerisms, voice, and 
attitude are perfect. Luckly his character is also 
interesting and funny. We see a confused old 
man without much of his original youth and wit 
left, yet he is lovable and funny. By far, this 
is one of the finest performances by an actor
I have seen this far off Broadway. It is unfor
tunate that his brilliant performance goes to 
waste.
Since the City Theatre is very small, one gets 
a very personal feeling' from the production. 
You really feel as though you are sitting in their 
living room. The set is very realistic, and set 
designer Brian P. Kelly does an excellent job 
with the limited space. Lighting was designed 
by Bob Steinbeck, and it too has a very home
ly feel to it. ___________
PREGNANT?
And you didn't mean to be? 
For a tree pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Binhright at 741-3491.
607 255 4987
As good as the sets and lighting were, they 
suffered greatly due to the uneventful and lack 
luster directing of Masterson. Many times the 
actors are very rigid when they should be run
ning rampant. He also did not allow for any im
provisation at all. The press release quotes him 
as saying When I read the play, I realized how 
rich it was; with every reading, you realize more 
about these people, and thats certainly been 
our experience in rehearsal. This enlighten
ment does not carry over to the performance, 
however. The play does not seem to benefit 
from any added knowledge, but rather only gets 
more confusing.
The promotional material about Painting 
Churches calls it  a theatrical portrait that has 
the shimmer a depth of a Renoir painting. A 
more accurate description would be on the 
order of a Jackson Pollack canvas that has a 
brilliant flash of light in the center and is sur
rounded by streams of out-of-place splotches.
Make The Grade
We'll help you do your best at get
ting around. You can rent a car if 
you're 18 or older, have a valid 
driver's license, current student 
I.D. and a cash deposit. Stop by 
and fill out a short cash qualifi
cation form at least 24-hours in 
advance.
JW
Available at:
You pay for gas used and return 
car to renting location. Most 
major credit cards accepted.
Non-discountable rate applies to Chevy Chevette or similar-size car and is subject to change without notice. Ratm slightly lower for drivers over 25. Specific jars subject to availability. Certain daily minimums apply. Weekend rate available from noon Thursday to Monday. Call for details.
$0095
X  PER DAYmm WEEKENDS 
150 FREE miles per day. 
Additional mileage 12 per mile.
National Car Rental ,
Carnegie-Mellon deserves National attention.*
261-5500 I 434 Boulevard of the Allies 
682-1444 I 4621 Forbes Avenue (Oakland)
Cornell
University 
has a place for you 
this summer.
Wonderful courses, great professors, magnificent 
environment, people from everywhere, 
lots of good things happening  
come enjoy it all.
Send me Cornells Summer Session Announcement of credit courses 
and special programs.
Name
Address
City/State/Zip 
College_____
We feature GM cars 
ike this Chevy Chevette.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanApril 8, 1986
John Ciardi describes hell as a place for addicts
By MARK CARR
Special to The Tartan
Poet and translator John Ciardi gave a reading 
for the International Poetry Forum on March 
5th in Carnegie Lecture Hall. Best known for 
his translation of Dantes Divine Comedy, Ciar
di has written several books of poetry and 
criticism, including the popular textbook How 
Does a Poem Mean? He read with a relaxed, 
personable style, occasionally interrupting 
himself to point out particualr uses of language; 
the poet conveyed his fascination with the 
richness of words, their 'range of sound and 
meaning.
Ciardi began by reading some poems he 
wrote for children. Making lively use of rhyme,
these verses reflect the authors concern that 
his work have an element of fun in it. Whether 
describing an overly curious examination of a 
sharks mouth or the confusing schedules of two 
odd little men, Ciardi demonstrated that mastery 
of language can still leave room for light
heartedness. He said that he would feel that his 
career had been worthwhile if he could hear a 
child reciting and enjoying his work.
The poets sense of humor also appeared in 
other compositions. In one poem, he depicted 
the comic impressions of a man mistakenly shot 
by the police; this grim situation was enlivened 
by the speakers sarcasm. When informed that 
he has the right to remain silent, the expiring
victim thatnks the policeman, adding that I can 
feel it coming on. Another poem detailed an 
older mans frustration with the aches and pains 
of his aging components. Most of Ciardis 
verse was straightforward and enjoyable, though 
a couple of his poems (including the one that 
dealt with insects* natural camouflage) pro
gressed from solid openings to rather abstract 
and confusing conslusions. Nonetheless, his 
wry, lively perceptions were consistently 
entertaining.
After presenting his own work, Ciardi read 
selections from his translation of Dante and 
discussed the structure of the Divine Comedy, 
a poetic journey through the afterlife. He liken
ed Dante's concept of Purgatory to a 20th cen
tury collegeyou cant flunk out of it [i.e., g0 
to Hell). Hou may suffer through some of your 
courses, but eventually you get your degree.
In contrast, Ciardi characterized Hell as a 
place for addicts, people who hate their con
dition but love the dose that keeps them in tor
ment. He focused on the subtle implications of 
Dantes vision, the unspoken sermons that 
can be gleaned from the details and parallels 
woven into the Divine Comedy. Ciardi con
cluded by praising Dantes verse as an exam
ple of poetry at its best: What is said is power
ful, but what is left unsaid is just as surely there 
and just as powerful.
Paintings9 ceramics, and drawings at Forbes Gallery
Dad works hard for your money.
So show him how understanding you 
can be. Fly to London on Virgin Atlantic.
Itll only set him back $199, when you 
take advantage of our Sameday Fare.
And youll get all our extras at no extra 
charge.
So stop by your old mans travel agent
the next chance you get.Or call us at (212) 
242-1330 or (201) 623-0500.
After all your fathers 
done for you, its the least 
you can do for him.
VIRGIN IIANTIC AIRWAY
All our extras at no extra charge.
PARTS 
REPAIRS 
ACCESSORIES 
PICK-UP RETURN 
USED "CW1PUS CRUISERS* 
731-5604
Summer Fall SpringWASHINGTON 
OR LONDON 
INTERNSHIPS
OXFORD 8U&ER
Full Academic Years In
 Oxford University
 L.S.E. St. Andrews, Scotland
U.S. credits will be transferred 
through Hampden-Sydney 
College, founded in Virginia by 
James Madison in 1776. 
Graduate work is an option. 
The Director of Studies for the 
Center for Quality Education 
Abroad (in Britain) is the Rt. 
Hon. The Lord Beloff, D.Litt. 
(Oxon.), Fellow of the British 
Academy, Professor Emeritus 
of Government and Fellow of 
All Souls, Oxford. 
INQUIRIES TO:
JANET KOLLEK,J.D., 
Admissions Director CQEA/ 
WISC, Rm 53,158 W. 81 St., 
NY,NY, 10024.
(212-724-0804/724-0136). 
(EO/AA)
He also intends to wallpaper the back room 
with drawings, many of which show eyes and 
breasts. Why eyes and breasts? I asked. 
Why not? he replied.
Mike Chandler will also be showing drawings. 
They are about my love of drawing the figure, 
done in a manner which is not classical. There 
is a certain provocative nature to them. In ad
dition, he will be displaying assemblages, 
conglomerations of studio junk: paper, canvas, 
wood, cookies, cigarette butts, candles, and lots 
of varnish. Mike says that the assemblages are 
about his love of varnish.
James Walters, a winner of the Douglas 
Wilson award, will be showing paintings. He 
works with formal colors to create large 
autobiographical self portraits. His canvases 
continued on page 25
.Fare valid through May 19
By KATE BONELLO
Special to The Tartan
Jeff Duer, Mike Chandler and James Walters 
will be showing paintings, ceramics and draw
ings at the Forbes Gallery this week. The show 
opens tonight at 7 PM. The public is invited and
refreshments will be served.
Jeff Duer will be filling the back room and 
front windows of the gallery with drawings, 
ceramics, and installations. His installations will 
be constructed of chicken wire and bedsheets 
he buys from the hospital; he says that The
meat of the show will be the stuff done on loca
tion. His ceramic sculpture includes a cookie 
jar and punchbowl; he is not sure what will be 
in the show, but most of the ceramics feature 
rather squat figures. The clay has a tendency 
to sink down, he says. It all leads to fat.
FlYTOLONMNPORJUST 
$199 OFTOUR FATHERS MONEY

---------------------------------------------------

Spring Carnival
Star
Look-A-Like Contest
movie stars 
t.v. stars 
comedians 
singers
Judging on: Impressions, mannerism, dress and looks
1st, 2nd, 3rd cash prizes 
Sign-up @ Skibo Info Desk 
between 9 and 5 April 2-April 14.
You will have up to 2 minutes to entertain the audience.
For more Information, Call x2107 or x4226.
Student Government 
Elections and Referendum
IP
Support your choices for Student Government
President and Senators
And vote on referendum concerning CMUs 
Policy of Investment in South Africa
Vote On
Wednesday, April 9 
Thursday, April 10
at Skibo Lobby
Another A Phi O Seruice
Funded by Student Senate

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Inkspots by Kurt Shawby Nabil LiumangZurk
...But SotAEDAY I Mope 
TO EIN\5U. IT n 50 CotAOOr 
1 PovVT TU INK any Of XbO 
COUUO... HELP t-ve.. - riNV5M.. 
ET...VrtAKV.. EXCEPT Z-uRK...
ON oe OVERHEAD I5T AN/ 
EOUM-lOH  HAN/E SEEN 
VoRKIKkG ON PoR. OVER 
THIRTY YEARS. XT HAS 
TAKEN IAE A VERY LovJCTIrte
HELLO OER Bo'f GIRL*. HELOR r HAVE * VERY SPECIAL 
TREAT f VovJ.
WHIZ KID'S GIVE ME A VERY 
^>1<S PAlfA 1(4 rVf A6SCIS6A.
by Mike McHugh
UMX iwovovoe WOULD 
T>A^T\C\9YVT' 110 t(UCV\ 
A WSCLS \S
B6NO*oD rtf.
Excuse me, Gentlemen, but it seems that I left the iron 
plugged in at my home and, well, I was wondering... SPRING CARVWWL IS
W04R, AWDTVC FRttfS 
RRe OUT PWCnCiW 
&U<^Y.
\bu WULDAj'r
CKTCMIMFDewo iMOioe THOSe /
AH'. SPR)Wi'.
The Digressional
Choice by Seth Eliot______________and Mike McHugh
Poindexter
In the year 1,000,000 AD, Carnegie Melton's Master Ex
pansion Plan is defeated by the laws of Entropy
Uft* W> \ LOO^
you mMBy L9MI_ EMM2 
t0yn POry ^ovAir>l
C^i .... ^pAXi/M"IO^ 5 
f^or fop. vNoTugf 
t\Ao>J TH /
Public Enemy Number One by Adam Rosenberg
I // *Z. <
Tu0u&*-rr The 
y Am*r feKiA^TV
/ V 5=^2- M-ruve**/J

---------------------------------------------------

oum bep, biob/ weite T pue ATM AIRPORT /A
TO SWAPBILLTHECAT ------[it 1FOR OfTTER JOHN OKAY.. JUST
artn m MesCrds. ter Mi pur
liv MFACEON...
PONT MESS
HSp onsre drdob Spdy
OF VELCRO'/ /
Mike Biscayne
by Adam Rosenberg
cmW'/MisCOHM fiCK.r
Atm/''
'mutue' BUT
ntnh&&uAv pehHnhi
IS M/XZP MTU 
SAPNCSS ...OL' BILL 
YOU THE CAT IS BEING 
JEST/ TRAP6P TO TH
\ RUSSIANS.
such A mieeveN 
the evil empire 
msNr
heCeMUeGo
unhCcl HSp
I RUSSIANS ?
dptt&&
oniap
A UTlE,
OH M..WHAT WHO? 
VOU POM TH6
swter-soctAusT
Fm
so leMe we TMe Tddlear:Dn 
Drtdv mtdeMtTdmDtTw TmMhDMdMtTlNG FOR THE RUSSIAN PLANE WHICH WILL GIVE US BACK a/mR iDltuuu ffNp Tnxe my hDDM Jcoamww -v, 7le Tduuu
' & =TV)
WHAT PO you KNOW. BILL ? 
WHAT PO you KNOW ABOUT THE 
MORAL FAILURE OF WESTERN 
DEMOCRACY THAT THE REST Of 
US PONT KNOW BUTMAYBe 
SHOVLP KNOW 7
FAT BUCHANAN 
WEARS %FREPERtCK'S 
OF HOUXWOOP' 
PEEK-A-BOO 
SHORTS.
LOOK/THERE. 
NO POUBT Acmmisr
TWOHA/ SURELY AN AMERICAN CRIMINAL 
SmBT MOBSTER.
..A PECAPENT 
..A NUMB MERCHANT OF 
ANP FACELESS PRUGS, P0RN06-
SERVANT TO RAPHY ANP ^
AN EVI SICK, WESTERN M
STATE, MORAL M<p PERVERSION..mk
SURELY.
SENPUPCAT,PLEASE.
Hi HAVe YA 
GOT CUTTER 
JOHN t
SHBCP
TERRORIST PMP.. 
ANPROiP.. g,.
by Nabil Liumangme amAT CAST?
ESCAPED WEIL LAST'EM 
FROM THOSE WfTH A PHOTON 
RDMULAN imrzmAMoe* !' 
HEATHENS, /
H, CAPTA*7 / AHOY.
MAP MRP 3/ 00SRYlOTKWlP.COUP THING'S
PLmrofcmy backw wmN comopj ViMcploTIES BROKERS7* / xw 
a/N/^T SPEAK.
empfr
ROCKETS
,uggying on a Fri-emyroacenmxmMW
mjam
emyna&nMM* 3WHCYHOMING
BLOOM COUNTY 1 Student Dormitory Council by Berke Breathed

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24The TartanApril 8, 1986
AB Coffee House
By HEATHER NEWTON
Special to the Tartan
Top 40 is not my kind of music, but when 
Dan Peek performed his familiar hits at the AB 
Coffee House on March 14, he and his band 
had such a good time that it was impossible for 
me not to enjoy the show as well. Peek played 
a good mixture of songs from his days with 
America and new material from his latest album 
Electic Voice. His relaxed rapport with the 
audience, plus the hilarious comments inter
jected throughout the show by cynical keyboar
dist Russell Kirkland, kept the good-sized au
dience laughing and engaged for an hour and 
a half.
The band got started 20 minutes late, and 
Peeks vocals were hard to hear above the jaz
zy guitar and insistent drums of the first 
number, Believe in Me. The band soon ad
justed itself to the limitations of the Wherrett 
Room, however, and the second number, Doer 
of the World of the Lord, showed a much bet
ter balance between vocals and instruments. 
When Peeks voice came through, so did the 
accomplished harmony of the three other band 
members, which was evident in every song 
thereafter. It was refreshing to hear a band in 
which all of the members could sing as well as 
play.
Peek then performed the song Electic 
Voice from his album of the same name. The 
song was strikingly different from mellow 
America tunes, replacing their soft appeal with 
a new power. Another song from the new 
album, I'll Follow You, did not come across 
as well. Its upbeatness seemed somewhat forc
ed and there was nothing about the tune that 
stuck in my mind.
The old favorate, Sandman, took on a new 
poignance with Peek's explanation that it was 
writen in memory of a friend who fought in Viet
nam. The band got a chance to display its pro
fessionalism during this number when guitarist 
David Peek (Dans younger brother) could not 
get his guitar to work. The other band members 
humorously reminded the audience of a similar 
scene in the movie Spinal Tap! and when the 
guitar finaly came on, rejoiced with the ex
planation, Hey! That one went to eleven!
If Peek had only performed the songs he sang 
while with America, he would have not only risk
ed presenting himself as a has-been, but might 
also have lost his audience to monotony. In
stead, he kept inserting little surprises into the 
show. One of these was a bluesy rendition of 
a Halmon Waters tune, for which Peek donn
ed a harmonica and dark glasses. When we in 
the audience got caught up in the mood but 
couldnt coordinate out finger-snapping, 
keyboardist Kirkland emerged from behind his 
instrument in mock disgust to direct us. One 
two and four, everybody. You guys are so 
white. He brough the house down.
In every number they performed. Peek and 
his band sounded as polished as any live per
formers can sound. In a day when too many 
musicians rely on the miracles of the recording 
studio to make them sound good, their musi
cianship deserves recognition. I still am not a 
Top 40 fan. But the next time I overhear A 
Horse With No Name or Lonely People on 
the radio, I will appreciate those songs more 
for having seen them perfromed live by this 
group of talented men, so obviously at ease with 
themselves, with each other, and with their 
audience.
DH 2210
presents
t
wm
&
By FERRUGIA AND MCHUGHTartan DH2210 Reviewers 
Tuesday
The Pink Panther 
Strikes Again
The hilariously bumbling Inspector Clouseau 
is as funny as ever in this, the second of four 
Pink Panther adventures. Once again, the In
spector is hot on the trail of the, once again, 
stolen diamond. Only this time, his own boss 
is trying to kill him. Director Blake Edwards hits 
you right in the iunny bone with tons of side
splitting slapstick, which is sure to keep you 
laughing for hours. Peter Sellers and Blake Ed
wards star.
Tartan Movie Grade: 3.25
Thursday
The Lord of the Flies
A group of English schoolboys stranded on 
an unihabited island revert to savagery in an 
attempt to survive in this haunting and darkly 
fascinating film. The conventions of civilization 
fall away as the boys face despair and new forms 
of peer pressure arise. Director Peter Brooks 
does an excellent job of adapting William 
Goldings contemporary classic novel to the 
screen, using a cast of unknown child actors.
Friday
St. Elmos Fire
Some of todays most talented young actors 
star in this honest and entertaining story about 
a group of recent college grads adjusting to the 
real world. The performances are wonderful, 
especially those by Ally Sheedy and Andrew 
McCarthy. Jud Nelson, Mare Winingham, 
Emilio Estevez, Demi Moore, and Rob Lowe 
also star.
Tartan Movie Grade: 3.5
Saturday
The Rocky Horror 
Picture Show
Probably the most popular late night cult film 
of all time. A fun-filled and imaginative musical 
spoof of the old late night double feature pic
ture show. So, if youre ready for a wild, wayout, wacky, time-warping time, get your rice, 
toast, newspapers, water pistols, and toilet paper 
ready and go have a hell of a time. Not recom
mended for the conservative types. Tim Curry, 
Susan Sarandon, and Barry Bostwick star.
Tartan Movie Grade: Outrageous
Tartan Movie Grade:3.5
Unlbed
My
HyS*v
inngT
&
For more information return coupon to:
ARIE ROTSHTEIN
ISRAELI COMMUNITY SHALIACH FOR PITTSBURGH 
242 McKEE PLACE
PITTSBURGH, PA 15213 PHONE: 683-7277
SCHOLARSHIP
The Carnegie Mellon Pittsburgh Women's Clan Scholarship Awards Committee will be inter
viewing women in order to select recipients for its 1986-87 awards in Room 112, Skibo Hall, on 
the following evenings:
Monday, April 14, from 6-9 p.m.
Tuesday, April 15, from 7-9:30 p.m.
Wednesday, April 16, from 6-9 p.m.
The criteria which will be used is:
1. Student must be in her junior year in 1985-86. The award will be applied to the September 
tutition at CMU during her senior year.
2. Student must have a 2.80 QPA or above.
3. Student should participate in some school activities.
4. Student's financial need and aid will also be taken into consideration. Student must have already 
filled out a 1986-87 Financial Aid Form (FAF) or Pennsylvania State Grant/Federal Student Aid 
Form, or have a 1985-86 aid application on file in the Financial Aid Office.
Scholarship applications are now available in the Financial Aid Office. Three or four scholar
ships will be awarded, a minimum of $500 each. Deadline for submission of the application is 
April 11, 1986. Applications should be returned to the Financial Aid Office, Warner Hall 214, at 
which time the student should set up an appointment for her interview.
The Carnegie Mellon Pittsburgh Womens Clan is comprised of Alumni of Carnegie Mellon 
University. They have maintained an active interest in CMU activits and have been very generous 
in their support of time and activities.
Womens Health Servicesinc.
Name
Address.
Gyne Core that is 
Woman-Centered
 Professional G Convenient
 Female G Male Practitioners
 Complete Check-ups
 Contraceptive Services
During your check-up, ask for your free 
copy of Our Bodies, Ourselves.
Appointments 6 Information 
107 Sixth Street
562-1900 
Downtown Pittsburgh

---------------------------------------------------

April 8, 1986The TartanPage 25
Woody Allen is in near perfect form with Hannah
By RACHEL HAUBEN
Special to The Tartan
Seeing Hannah and Her Sisters, Woody 
Allens new film, made me want to go back and 
see all of Woody Allens films again. There 
seems to be such a progression from mthe ear
ly hilarity of such films as Take the Money and 
Run and Sleeper to the sweet sophistication of 
Hannah and Her Sisters. Woody Allen has given 
us an extraordinarily personal body of work. 
This is perhaps his most loving and optimistic 
film, and certainly one of his best.
It is a movie about a show business family, 
and Mia Farrow is Hannah, the oldest sister and 
the center of the family. She is married to 
Michael Caine, who is nursing an infatuation for 
Mias youngest sister, played by Barbara Hershey. Also involved in the story are the middle 
sister, wonderfully played by Diane Wiest, and 
Mias ex-husband, played by Allen himself.
One of the many plots and subplots centers 
around Caines affair with Hershey, who is 
herself involved with a self-centered artist, 
played by Max Von Sydow. This role seems to 
be Allens sly send-up of his own idol, Ingmar 
Bergman. Hershey and Caine, despite their 
deep affection for Farrows Hannah, are unable 
to resist their mutual passion.
Hannah is relied on by her sisters and her 
parents and even her ex-husband for advice, 
and, in the case of Wiest, money. She juggles 
an acting career, motherhood, marriage, battl
ing parents and neurotic sisters with such ap
parent ease and unfailing love that she drives 
the people she most cares for a little bit crazy 
As Caine tells her in one memorable scene, she 
seems to have no needs at all. Of course, she 
does, and this is one of the things that Caine 
has to learn.
In another subplot, Wiest is constantly sear
ching for a job she is good at. Though she fails 
at just about everything she tries, she always 
keeps hoping and dreaming. And with some 
financial help from Hannah, she manages to get 
by.
The most humorous and typically Woody 
Allenish storyline comes about in the scenes in
volving Allen. He is a T.V. producer who is also 
a hypochondrica. At one point, he looses his 
religious identity and starts out on a hilarious 
search for new faith.
The performances are uniformly excellent. 
Wiest comes quite close to stealing the show; 
in many ways it is more her story than anyone 
elses. But, this is an ensemble piece, and it is 
very much about everyone involved. It is by 
turns heart-breaking and hilarious, and it is 
always interesting. The characters seem so real 
that they jump of the screen, and the family rela
tionships are so strong that Allen didnt need 
the extra dollop of reality he gains by casting 
Mia Farrows real-life mother, Maureen 
OSullivan, as the mother of Hannah.
The only real flaw in this movie was pointed 
out to me by a friend of mine. Hershey does 
not seem to be dealing with the fact that she 
is sleeping with her sisters husband. All the ob
jections she makes when Caine first declares his 
passion for her are the objections of any woman 
contemplating an affair with a married man. In 
other words, her concern seems to be simply 
that he is married and that she herself is involv
ed with another man-not that he is married to 
her sister, to whom she is very close. It is not 
until much later in the movie that guilt about 
her betrayal of Hannah seems to surface in a 
wonderfully filmed lunch scene. As Hershey 
listens to Wiest arguing with Farrow, her own
guilt suddenly overwhelms her. As this is go
ing on, Allen keeps the camera revolving about 
the table so we get a real sense of Hersheys 
own whirling emotions. But even this seems to 
be short lived. And in a story that is all about 
family and unity, Hersheys odd lack of con
cern over what she is doing to her sister strikes 
the only false note.
Overall, however, this is a very fine film, and
I cant recommend it highly enough. An ensem
ble including Caine, Farrow, Allen, Wiest, Her
shey, von Sydow, Maureen OSullivan and the 
late Lloyd Nolan (not to mention Tony Roberts, 
Carrie Fisher and Sam Watterson) is a rarity 
nowadays. And this is a film about adults, which 
is a refreshing change. Allens script is concemBlatent Image Gallery:
ed with issues that are eternal concerns for 
anyone who has ever cared about anyone. At 
a time when the market is glutted with movies 
where the primary concerns seem to be the ac
tors wardrobes, a movie dealing with love and 
loyalty and trust and betrayal and healing is 
more than welcome. The warm ending is one 
of the loveliest things about this movie; it closes, 
as it opens, with a family gathering. Rifts are 
healed, and there are some surprises along the 
way. Allens message seems to be summed up 
in one of the final lines: The heart is a resilient 
little muscle.
Tartan Movie Rating: 3.9
Photography portfolio review
PITTSBURGH: Blatent Image Gallery/Silver 
Eye Photographic Workshop is pleased to spon
sor an open portfolio review on Saturday, April
12, from 1-3 p.m. Art students, professional 
and amateur photographers, photography buffs 
and the public are invited to participate in an 
informal discussion about the work brought in 
that day for review. Several members of the 
Gallery will be on hand to open the discussion.
The purpose of this program is to present an 
opportunity for dialogue between local 
photographers, students and others interested 
in photography. This review is being held for 
idea exchange purposes, not for exhibition pur
poses. Participants are requested to bring 
photographs or slides of their work for discus
sion material. Four informal reviews will be held 
each year.
The review will be held in the Gallery at 1015 
East Carson Street. Regular Gallery hours are 
WednesdaySaturday, Noon5 p.m. For more 
information, please call 431-1810.
continued from page 20
At Forbes Gallery
show certain moods and situations through the 
planned composition of the painting and 
through the expression of the self portrait-often 
a contemplative one. Why does he paint? I like 
the two dimensional appeal because of the 
limitations. . .1 know there are limitations with 
sculpture but I like the limitations with this. You 
have to create an illusion with the surface. 
Jeff, Mike and Jim will be showing their stuff 
through Sunday, April 13.
F
NEW, USED & 
OUT-OF-PRINT BOOKS 
FOR THE 
FINICKY READER
Used Hardcover & 
Paperbacks in all subjects. 
Contemporary Fiction 
 Science Fiction 
Rare & Unusual Books 
Classics to Cookbooks 
Booksearch Service
1505 Asbury Place, Squirrel Hill 
?ear the Northumberland St. Fire Station 
Open 12-6, Tues. - Sat.
Thurs. till 8 p.m. & by appointment 
Ph. 422-0280
10% Discount to all students
DECREASE STRESS
SIGN UP FOR WORKSHOPS AT THE COUNSELING CENTER:
MANAGING SCHOOL & PERSONAL STREES
4 Wednesdays, 4:30 - 5:30 p.m.; begins February 26
GOING HOME AGAIN: DEALING WITH PARENTS
2 Wednesdays, 4:00 - 5:00 p.m., March 12 & 19
THE WOMENS GROUP
4 Thursdays, 5:00 - 6:00 p.m.; begins February 27
GETTING ALONG: DEALING WITH ROOMATE CONFLICT
4 Tuesdays, 4.30 - 5:30 p.m.; begins February 25
UNDERSTANDING ALCOHOL AND DRUG ABUSE IN FAMILIES
2 Tuesdays, 4.00 - 5:00 p.m., March 11 & 18
FOR INFORMATION AND REGISRATION: Call x2922, or visit 
Counseling & Student Development Center 
Morewood Gardens, E Tower, Room 103 
9:00 a.m. - 12 noon & 1:00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m.
g PIZZA PIZZA PIZZA PIZZA
810 IVY STREET
682-3333
NN
>
r-r-ir-r^ Mon.-Sot. 5 PM-1 AM
FREE Delivery Sunday 12 PM-12 am
We sell pizza by the slice
SPECIAL: Order $10.00 or 
more and get a coupon for 
FREE $3 Cheese Pizza.
<NN
<
W
LARGE$ 
PIZZA -
FREE
liter of Coke 
With Purchase 
Of Large Phza
K
>
B

---------------------------------------------------

Beat the Price Increase
Order Your
Thistle
This Week 
in Skibo Grey Matter for
$18.00
Time is Running Out!
* After This Sale, Prices will increase to $20.00

---------------------------------------------------

Standi ford Field. Louisville, Ky.

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie Mellon University
1986 Summer Session
Tentative Undergraduate and Graduate Courses for Summer Sessions
(1)Offered in the first session
(2)Offered in the second session
(1&2)Course runs through both sessions (14 weeks)
'Graduate course number
Industrial Management
Chemistry09-105Dynamics&Equilibria10 units(1)09-117Organic Chemistry I9 units(1)09-218Organic Chemistry II9 units(2)
Civil Engineering12-110Introductory Engineering Economics9 units(1)12-207Statics9 units(1)12-208 -Dynamics9 units(2)
*12-212Solid Mechanics9 units(2)
Computer Science15-111Intro, to Computing B, Section M10 units(1X2)15-113Lisp Mini3 units(2)15-118Intro, to Computing C, Section M10 units(1&2)15-119C Mini3 units(2)
Mathematics21-112Calculus ll(H&SS)10 units(t)21-121Calculus I10 units(1 )(2)21-122Calculus and Linear Algebra10 units(1 )(2)21-127Discrete Mathematics of 
Computer Science9 units(1)(2)
21-259Calculus in Three Dimensions9 units(1)(2)21-260Differential Equations9 units(1 )(2)21-301Combinatorial Analysis9 units(2)
Mechanical Engineering24-11224-121
Fluid Mechanics I 
Thermodynamics I10 units 
pipnits
(1)
Metallurgical Engineering 27-322Process Metallurgy12 units(1)(2)
and Materials Science27-332Physical Metallurgy II9 units(1)(2)27-350Industrial Projects Seminar9 units(1)(2)27-390Industrial Internship Option0 units(D(2)27-755*Metallurgical Problemsvar. units(1)(2)27-756*Thesisvar. units(1M2)18-236Intro.to Solid State Electronics9 units(D(2)
Physics33-121Physics I: Mechanics (self-paced)10 units(1)(2)33-122Physics II: Heat Waves & Optics 
(self-paced)10 units(1)(2)
33-123Physics III: Electricity & Magnetism 
(self-paced)10 units(1)(2)
33-129Electronics I10 units(1)
Statistics36-101Statistical Concepts with Computer 
Applications
9 units(1 )(2)
36-209Probability and Applied Statistics for 
Management & Social Sciences I
9 units(D(2)
36-210Probability and Applied Statistics for 
Management & Social Sciences II9 units (1)(2)
36-211Probability and Applied Statistics for 
Physical Science & Engineering I9 units(1)(2)
36-212Probability and Applied Statistics for 
Physical Science & Engineering9 units(1)<2)
36-217Probability Theory&Random Process9 units(1)(2)'36-219Statistical Methods for 
Data Analysis9 unitsU)(2)
36-225Intro to Probability&Statistics I9 units( 1 )(2)36-226Intro to Probability&Statistics II9 units( 1 )(2 )36-325Probability&Mathematical Statistics 19 units(1)<2) *
36-326Probability&Mathematical Statistics II9 unitsIl M2)
Biomedical Engineering42-500/735*Physiology9 units(2)42-560BME Undergraduate Projects9 units(2)
Architecture48-280Architectural Design Level II12 units(1)
Design51-100Introduction to Design18 units(2)51-200Design18 units(2)51-210Introduction to Photography9 units( 1)(2)
Art60-117/317/717*
Drawing9 units(2)
60-224Art and the Computer9 units(2)60-228/328/728*
Painting9 units(2)
60-231/331/731*
Beginning Serigraphy 
Advanced Serigraphy9 units(1)
60-233/333/733*
Relief9 units(2)
60-345Independent Study: Glass & Light9 units(1)60-361Sculpture9 units(2)
60-380/780*Contemporary Art9 units(2)
60-381Independent Study: Contemporary 
Issues in Art History
9 units(1)
-Sim..Internship: Gallery Experience9 units(2)
70-101Elements of Industrial Administration9 units(1)(2)70-121Financial Accounting9 units(1)(2)70-311Organizational Behavior I9 units(2)70-312Organizational Behavior II9 units(2)70-332Government & Business9 units(2)70-361Foundations of Law9 units(2)70-371Production I9 units(1)(2)70-381Marketing I9 units(1)70-391Finance I9 units(1)(2)70-474Human Resources Management9 units(1)
Economics
English
History
Philosophy
Psychology
Social Sciences 
SUPA
73-100Principles of Economics9 units(1)(2)73-250Intermediate Microeconomics9 units(1 )(2)73-300Intermediate Macroeconomics9 units0X2)73-360Econometrics9 units(1)
76-100Strategies for Writing9 units(1X2)76-101Reading Texts9 units(1)(2)76-122Special Topics: Composing 
with Computers9 units(1)
76-170Advanced Exposition9 units(1X2)76-242Reading Twentieth-Century Culture9 units(2)76-245Shakespeare9 units(1X2)76-260Survey of Forms: Fiction9 units(1)76-265Survey of Forms: Poetry9 units(2)76-270Writing for the Professions9 units(1X2)76-301Internship0-18 units(1X2)76-371/771*Rhetoric in Social Interaction9 units(1X2)76-421/821*Advanced Seminar: Twentieth 
Century American Drama9 units(1)
76-422/822*Advanced Seminar: Twentieth 
Century Fiction9 units(1)
76-424/824*Advanced Seminar: The Short Story9 units(2)76-471Internship in Technical Writing 
and Editing9 units(1)(2)
76-901 *Internship: English3 units(2)
79-220Contemporary America: A History 
through Film9 units(2)
79-221History of American Urban Life9 units(2)79-356The Second World War9 units(1)79-360Witchcraft and Dissent in Europe9 units(1)
80-211Logic and Computability I9 units(1)80-100Philosophic Methods and Morals9 units(1)80-236Sex, Drugs, Rock n Roll and seat belts9 units(1)
85-101General Psychology9 units(1)85-110Intro to Symbolic Programming 
(self-paced)9 units(1)
85-112LISP (self-paced)9 units(2)
88-344Law and Economics9 units(1)
90-729*Health Systems Finance12 units(1)(2)90-761 *Organizational Management II12 units(1)(2)90-762*Strategic Planning Not-for-Profit12 units(1X2)90-764*Economic Principles of 
Policy Analysis12 units(1)(2)
90-778*Personnel Management12 units(1X2),90-779*Strategic Marketing/Communications12 units(1)(2)90-789*Financial Analysis for Managers12 units(1)(2)90-795*Health Policy6 units(1)90-798*Legal Issues in Health 
Systems Management6 units(2)
Special Programs
European Studies Program:
PARIS, 1986June 4-July 27 
GERMANY, 1986June 9-August 1 
MEXICO, 1986^ne_2_Jul^2^
School of Urban & Public Affairs 
QSSI/QSSP Workshop 
June 8 through July 31
Carnegie Mellon University, during the 
summer, 1986, will hold two seven-week 
sessions as follows:
1st seven-week session 
May 13-June 27
2nd seven-week session 
June 30-August 15 
Undergraduate Tuition: $81/unit
Graduate Tuition*:
$150 per unit* *CFA/H&SS/OT/MCS/SUPA 
$164 per unit**GSIA
**3 units51 credit 
subject to change
This is a tentativelist of courses to be 
offered. The actual list of courses including 
class schedules will be announced and 
published depending upon student 
response.
Application materials and further infor
mation will be mailed upon receipt of your 
inquiry.
Please give your tentative reply as soon 
as possible by completing the attached 
form and returning it to:
Director, Summer Studies 
Carnegie Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
Phone: (412)268-6620
Carnegie Mellon University
Name ______________________________________
Mailing Address -----------------------------------------
Present School ____________________ _
I am interested in the following courses: 
Course No.
Title
Session
Please return this form to: 
Director, Summer Studies 
Carnegie Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890

---------------------------------------------------

Classifieds
Classifieds
[0-$360 Weekly/Up Mailing Cirrculars! No
I quotas! Sincerely interested rush self-addressed 
envelope: Success, P.O. Box 470CES, 
Woodstock, IL 60098.
(House For Sale:
Ranch, near schools, 3 bedrooms, bath, 2 
powderrooms, gameroom, garage, large yard,1
521-5331, after 6 p.m., price $100,000.
Shadyside Apartment, 1 bedroom, 3 rooms, 
security system, w/w, redecorated. 621-2873.
September Shadyside Apartments Near 
I Walnut Street: Efficiency, 1 & 2 big bedrooms, 
B air conditioning, fireplaces, microwaves, 
1 344-3637.
I SENIOR PORTRAITS,Fraternities, groups,
 experienced studio photographer will come to
II your location, days, evenings, weekends, call 
B day, evening, 322-7207.
s Roommate Needed Immediately graduate
 mature undergradShare 2BR Point Breeze 
Apt. $ 150/mo. includes utilities. Quiet, nonsmoker,only. Call 363-0189.
[j TYPING AND EDITING Style maunals
 closely followed. Choice of typestyles, equal or
II proportional spacing, justified copy. Pickup on 
Bcampus! 335-2438.
gi COUNSELORS NEEDED for summer cammp 
H in Pocono Mountains W.S.I., life guards, arts 
|| and crafts, woodshop computer, riflery, archery, 
If sports. Instructors also needed. Privately own| ed, small unique coed childrens camp. For inJk formation and application call locally evenings 
for weekends, 731-3742 or 682-2688; or write 
^Jim Daschbach, 7911 Union St., Pgh., PA, 
'15218.
ACT NOW! DISKETTES 
Bulk 5V4  DS/DD 44 cents each. Lots of 50. 
jThese are not 2nds. MONEY BACK 
GUARANTEE No Questions Asked. POs acIcepted. CALL 1-800-633-9242, 9-9 EST MF, 10-6 Sat. Offer Expires 5/1/86.
BAY ARD SI REET Low cost efficiencies 
and one Bedroom Apartments. Clean, well 
maintained. From $265 per month, including 
all utilities. Owner managed, on-site manager 
and laundry. 621-7666.
Newly appointed faculty seeks spacious furnish
ed home to rent or possibly purchase. 
919-968-2836 days.
Counselors, over 19 who like to have fun and 
make fun at unique overnight boys camp in PA. 
Able to instruct either one of following: watersafety, waterskiing, boating, soccer, basketball, 
arts and crafts, rockclimbing, riflery, ham radio, 
rocketry, science, archery, track, tennis, golf, 
photography, pioneering, or general athletics. 
Write: Camp Director, 138 Red Rambler Drive, 
Lafayette Hill, PA 19444.
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS: Recently 
published, International Students Handbook, 
A Step By Step Guide to Greencard From Stu
dent (F-l/J-l/H-1) visas. For free details send 
$ 1 for postage and handling (refundable) to: Im
migration Publication, Dept-F56 P.O. Box 
515991, Dallas, TX 75251.
Notary Public 4415 5th Avenue, Webster 
Hall, 1st floorOakland. 687-3233.
Bathing Suits/Books all need bring to COM
PLETELY FURNISHED SUMMER SUBLET 
w/fall option. WASHER/DRYER FREE 
DRIVEWAY PARKING! w/w carpet. 
Shadyside. 621-1364.
Professional Typing Service, Resumes, Correspondance, Business Personal Papers, 
Creative Typing, etc., IBM Selectric II pica/elite 
typefaces. Prompt service. Quality. 521-7888.
Dare to enter the exciting field of quality food 
service? Wendys, in the Shadyside area is hir
ing. Please call 687-3670. Were open 24 
hours.
Parties, Parties, Parties We have everything 
for your party in our 10,000 square foot party 
supermarket. Papermart, Baum Blvd at 
Morewood Ave.. 681-8900.
ImiCMU 
Computer Store
CMU Computer Store: UCC - A level
Phone: x2636 MM: PS00@TE 
For a current price list: Type HELP COMPUTER-STORE-PRICES on any
TOPS System.
Epson FX-85
200 cps.,selectable 
type styles and 
much much more. 
Price:
$361.00
Million Dollar Major Medical Insurance back
ed by Mutual of Omaha surprisingly affor
dable. For information call Bernie, 441-8482.
Summer, Fall Rooms: large, clean, sunny! 
Quiet, cool, fun, coed house. Unbuggy. Call 
683-7315 today! 600 sec. walk away.
Shadyside Apartment
1 bedroom, 3 rooms, security system, w/w, 
redecorated.
Shadyside Apartment 3 rooms, 1 bedroom, 
redecorated, security system (w/w). Tel 
621-2873.
Discount on over 50 brands of audio and video 
equipment. Call Hal at 687-2859.
Highway, traffic & street signs. Official. Send 
$1 for catalogue. De-Sign Store, P.O. Box 
2781, Palm Beach, FL 33480.
Distinctive Wedding Invitations, An
nouncements, Stationery, for all occasions. 
Fabulous Selection, Discount Prices. J.R. Sta
tionery shown by appointment. 243-0380.
TYPINGWORD PROCESSING 
Dissertations, Papers$2.50 per page 
Resumes and Manuscripts 
REVISIONSNO PROBLEM!
FREE DELIVERY 
COMPUAID, INC.- 765-2133
CLASSIFIED TYPING AD Tel 363-1016. 
WANTEDYOUR DISSERTATION.
To the Seniors of Delta Delta Delta 
Bless youfor what you areand, 
too, for what we are because of you. 
your sisters
Announcements
Carnegie Salutes Gtmegie, scheduled for 8:30 pm, 
April 19, at the Civic Arena, combines the talents 
of Carnegie Mellon ilumni from stage and screen with 
those of student performers. The line up includes host 
Andy Williams with Charles Haid, Barbara Feldon, 
Jerry Lewis, Steven Bochco, Barbara Bosson, Diane 
Fratantoni, Robert Foxworth and Nancy Marchand. 
The show caps the universitys annual three-day 
Spring Carnival. Student tickets are by calling 
268-8893.
Volunteers. The Mt. Hood National Forest in the 
Cascade Range near Portland, Oregon, is looking for 
volunteers to work during the 1986 field season. 
Typical jobs include campground hosts, wilderness 
rangers, timber sale layout, trail maintenance, road 
surveying, fuels and fire projects. For applications, 
contact the College Placement Office or Linda Good
man, Mt. Hood Natioral Forest, 2955 NW Division 
Street, Grssham, OR 97030.
Naeel Cultural Exchanges. Host families sire need
ed for a group of French, German and Spanish ex
change students who will be arriving in the area this 
summer for a one-month 1 omestay: July 2 - July 29. 
The program is sponsored by Nacel Cultural Ex
changes. Participation in the hosting program involves 
sharing home and family life with an exchange stu
dent, ages 14 - 18, for a period of four weeks. The 
students speak English and bring their own spending 
money. The organization provides comprehensive 
medical, accident, and liability insurance as well as 
transportation to the host far lily. The only obligation 
of the host family is to shari its everyday activities 
with the student and to treat die student as a member 
of the family and not a guest. If you are interested 
in hosting a French, German or Spanish exchange 
student, write or call the Nacel coordinators: Dr. 
Dominick and Dany-Noele DeFilippis, R.R.#1 Box 
177, Hickory, Pennsylvania 15340 or call 
412-356-2269 or 412-356-7359.
NOTICE!
ues g-Sat.1 en6, To eh6rd,ylr9 s649
This standby fare provides a 
berth in a room for four (we'll 
find traveling companions for 
you). Or, for $749, sail in a 
minimum-grade room for two. 
This limited offer is subject to 
withdrawal without prior 
notice and may not be com
bined with any other offer. 
Rate does not include taxes or
airfare. Confirmation will be 
given three weeks prior to sail
ing; a $100 deposit is required 
with your request. For details, 
see your travel agent or write: 
Cunard, Box 2935, Grand 
Central Station, New York,
NY 10163.
Queen Elizabeth 2 Last of the Great Superliners.
QE2 registered in Great Britain.CUNARD
C CUNARD 1906
jLee8 k201rdeyn 5 c Nr,riMaA V 0syriMaA V EL8raA EML8yess V EL8raA ?a08bess
Precision Haircuts custom designed for tt>e look you want
Precision
Haircut
only*13.00
Complet* witti iTvompoo A Now sty
Designer
Perm
only*25.00
COfTipNP? WTW
Just--Cut
only
*8.00Precision harcut only
guarantee!
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED1 
Great Styles Start at.
No Appointments
MB SB Ml fll00n 0OFs bMLmM8 cc cc csave $2.00 |I on the Precision Haircut IComplete wtth shampoo ft styling |! '| Offer Expires: _ v/UUIT
| April 11, 1986 BWIITmil
NOAPPCXNTMENTNECESSARYCNfccnmtns
PRECISION HAIRCUT TERS >
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
687-3500

---------------------------------------------------

Events
Scholarship Information. Students interested in 
receiving additional financial aid to attend college 
should write to the Scholarship Bank for a Free copy 
of their new publication How to Play Grantsmanship. The publication lists available grants and 
scholarships from private financial aid sources. Send 
a business-size. stamped, self-addressed envelope to 
The Scholarship Bank, 4626 N. Grand, Covina, CA. 
91724.
America! Electronics Association. The American 
Electronics Association is seeking 12 U.S. graduate 
students in electrical and computer engineering or 
computer science to work in the research laboratories 
of Japanese electronics companies starting in the fall 
of 1986 after summer language instruction. For fur
ther information and application materials, graduate 
students should contact the Engineering Deans of
fice on campus, or the American Electronics Associa
tion at 415-857-9300.
Pittsburgh Filmmakers: Ran, 7 pm, Wednesday; 
6:30 pm and 9:30 pm, Friday; 3 pm, 7 pm and 9:50 
pm, Saturday; and 3 pm and 7 pm, Sunday; through 
April 27. Admission: $4 at 101 Sixth Street.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy celebrates daily 
mass at 12:30 pm, Monday through Friday in CMUs 
chapel, Skibo room 39. Weekend masses are at 7 
pm Saturday and 10:30 am, Sunday in the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administration auditorium. For 
more information call 681-3181.
Grease. For its spring production, the Robert Mor
ris Colonial Theater presents the smash hit musical, 
Grease, from April 9 through April 12. Curtain time 
is 8 pm. For reservations or more information call 
262-8336.
Old Allegheny Festival Choir holds auditions. The
Old Allegheny Festival Choir, under the direction of 
Philip Aley, is holding auditions for all voice parts. 
For more information and to schedule an audition, 
contact director Philip Aley, 475-3436.
Robert Morris Colonial Theater. The Robert Mor
ris Colonial Theater is holding auditions for its 19th 
summer season on the Moon Township Campus of 
Robert Morris College. This years seven-play 
schedule includes: The Solid Gold Cadillac,4 Dont 
Drink the Water,4 Bedroom Farce, Under the Yum 
Yum Tree,4 Ten Little Indians4 and 4A Day in 
Hollywood/A Night in the Ukraine.4 Actors aged 19 
and older are called to audition on Sunday, April 
13 from 2 pm to 5 pm. Auditions for the musical 
Hollywood/Ukraine4 are held on Sunday May 11 
from 2 pm to 5 pm for performers 18 and older.
Camegie-Mellon University Art Gallery. Abstrac
tion: Abstraction is shown from March 15 through 
April 27. Sam Gilliam's paintings are exhibited in 
Gallery A, while five emerging abstract artists are ex
hibiting their work in Gallery B. Gallery hours are 
10 am to 5 pm, Tuesday through Friday; 11 am to 
5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm to 4 pm, Sunday. The 
Gallery is at 407 South Craig Street.
Forbes Gallery. Jeff Duer, Mike Chandler and Jim 
Walter present their work April 8 through April 13. 
Gallery hours are 11 am to 6 pm, Wednesday 
through Friday; and noon to 5 pm, Saturday and Sun
day. Opening April 8 from 7 pm to 9 pm. 
Refreshments served.
Intervarsity Christian Fellowship. Daily prayer 
meetings are held at 6 pm in the Chapel, Skibo room
39, Monday through Saturday.
Frankenstein Exhibit. An exhibit on Frankenstein
is presented through April 30 from 1:30 pm to 4:30 
pm or by appointment in the Fine Book Room, Hunt 
Library, fourth floor.
8
Tuesday
Movies
The Godfather, starring Robert Duvall, 
Diane Keaton A1 Pacino, James Caan and Marlon 
Brandop Extraordinary performances throughout. 
Oscars for Brando, screenplay and Best Picture. Pitt
sburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
* - . 7  * p?* '  '  Department of Art visiting Series. Alan Cobtr, ilhistraiorj speaks about his work at 7:30 pm in WeH 
7500. "
Lectures
SMS CEO Dialogue All - Day Seminar. Strategies 
For Success.4 The Topic is marketing, at 8:30 am 
to 4:30 pm. Admission $80 for SMC Members and 
$90 for non-members. Fee includes lunch and all 
seminar materials. Reservations must be made in ad
vance. For information or to register, call 391-1622.
Music
Great Swiss Organist at St. Pauls Cathedral. Guy
Bovet of Switzerland plays a recital on the famous 
Beckerath Organ in St. Pauls Cathedral at 8:30 pm. 
Admission is free.
Workshops
CPR Course. CPR certification and recertification 
course on Saturday, April 12. Sign up at Skibo in
formation desk by today.
Wednesday
9
Movies
Godfather, Part II, starring A1 Pacino and 
Robert DeNiro and another exceptional cast make 
this sequel as good as the first. Seven Oscars. Pitt
sburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Sports
Mens Tennis. Home match against Bethany Col
lege at 3 pm.
Golf. Spiedel Invitational at Wheeling, WV at 1 pm. 
Lectures
Visiting Writers Series. Carolyn Doty, fiction writer, 
speaks at 8 pm in the Adamson Wing. For more in
formation call Jim Daniels 268-2866.
Music
Junior Recital. Gary Lindemann and Anne 
Svedberg, voice, perform at 8 pm in the Mellon In
stitute Auditorium.
Clubs
AIESEC, an international, student-run business 
organization, offers a world of experience, both prac
tical and cultural. Meetings are held at 4:30 pm in 
Skibo room 11.
French Table. The Modern Languages Program 
sponsors a French Language Table every Wednes
day at noon in the Morewood Cafeteria.
Alpha Phi Omega. Meetings are held at 8:30 pm 
in the Adamson Wing.
Thursday
10
Movies
Special Events
Museum of Art Special Programs and Events.
Parent/Child ARTexpress provides weekly activities 
for adults and children from 10 am to 11:30 am 
every Thursday. Advance registration. For more in
formation call 622-3241.
Clubs
German Table. The Modern Languages Program 
sponsors a German Language table at noon in the 
Morewood Cafeteria.
CMU Explorers Club. If youre interested in rock 
climbing, kayaking, caving and hiking, come to a 
meeting at 6:30 pm in BH 131B. Trips every 
weekend. Beginners are welcome.
Friday
11
Movies
12
Saturday
Movies
All the Kings Men. starring 
Broderick Crawford, Joanne Dru, John Ireland and 
Mercedes McCambridge. Wonderful adaptation of 
Robert Warrens novel about the rise mid fall of Huey 
Long. Crawford is excellent. Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lord of the Flies, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 
at 6 pm, 8 pm and 10 pm. Admission SI.
Lectures
Department of Psychology Colloquium. Dr.
Thomas R. Shultz, McGill University, speaks on 
4Causal Reasoning m the Child,1 at 4 pm in the 
Adamson Wing. Coffee will be served before the lec
ture in the Psychology Lounge, BH 336-D.
Department of Chemisty Colloquium. Professor
S. Lansing Taylor, Department of Biological Sciences, 
speaks on Dynamics of Ions and Proteins in Living 
Cells,* at 4:30 pm in MI Conference Room. Coffee 
and donuts are served at 4 pm.
, Music
Graduate Recital. John Olsson, trombone performs 
at 8 pm in the Alumni Concert Hall,' CFA. 
Plenty, starring Meryl Streep, 
Charles Dance, Ian McKellen and John Gielgud. 
David Hares play about a woman who works for the 
secret service during WWII becomes an entertain
ing and well-acted film. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm, 9:40 and 11:50 pm. Admission $2.95.
Rocky Horror Picture Show, sponsored by AB 
Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm and 10 pm and mid
night. Admission $1.
Sports
Mens Tennis. Away match against Hiram College 
at 1 pm.
Golf. PAC Invitational at Hiram at 11 am.
Mens Track and Field. PAC Relays at Bethany 
at 1 pm.
Womens Track and Field. Hiram Invitational at 
1 pm.
Special Events
Pittsburgh Comic Book Convention. Phantom of 
the Attic sponsors a comic book convention at the 
University Inn. There are 45 dealers tables of com
ics and comic-related merchandise. Guests include 
Ron Frenz, Tom Grindberg, Fred Herabeck, Reg
gie Byers and the staff of Arrow comics. The show 
runs from 10 am to 6 pm, Saturday and 11 am to
4 pm, Sunday. Admission $2.50 per day or $3.50 
for two days. For more information call 621-1210.
Music
Senior Recital. Lisa Klein, voice, performs at
5 pm in the Alumni Concert Hall, CFA. *
Senior Recital. Marc Garvin, guitar, performs at 8 
pm ip the Alumni Concert Hall, CFA*
Senior Recital. Yugo Ikach, voice, performs at 8 
pm at Mellon Institute.
13
Sunday
Movies
Bring on the Night, A documen
tary about rock star Sting and his backup group, in
cluding Branford Marsalis, Darryl Jones, Kenny 
Kirkland and Omar Hakim. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
St. Elmos Fire, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 
at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. Admission SI.
Special Events
Spring Fling Dinner/Dance, at the Gateway Clip
per Ship. Tickets are available at Skibo information 
desk. Table reservations are available for groups of 
six or eight people. Ticket price: $10, Students; $11, 
Staff and $12, Faculty. For more information call 
268-2925.
Clubs
Intervarsity Christian Fellowship. Large group 
meetings are held at 7 pm in Skibo room 12.
Pocketful of Miracles, starring 
Bette Davis, Glenn Ford, Hope Lange and Thomas 
Mitchell. Warm-hearted story about a producer who 
turns Apple Annie into a lady. Capras last film. Pitt
sburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:50 pm. Admis
sion $2.95.
Europe in Film Series: Scenes from a Marriage, 
starring Ingmar Bergman. The film, originally made 
for Swedish television, explores the substance of oner 
marriage with extraordinary detail and depth at the 
Adamson Wing at 3 pm. This series is sponsored by 
the Program in European Studies, Department of 
History.
Music
Pittsburgh Symphony. Rafael Fruebeck de Burgos 
conducts Dvorak and Rimsky-Korsakov at 2:30 pm 
at Heinz Hall. Admission $3.50.
Bach Choir. Max Peterson conducts the all-Mozart 
program with The Bach Choir and the Bach Chamber 
Orchestra. Carolyn Mallory, soprano, Susan Nicely 
mezzo soprano, Robert Chafin, tenor and Andrew 
Schultze, baritone at 8 pm at Carnegie Music Hall. 
Admission $6 and $8. For more information call 
562-8832.
Carnegie Mellon Symphony Orchestra Concert.
Keith Lockhart conducts at 8 pm in the Alumni Con
cert Hall, CFA. Preceding this concert, Dr. Stephen 
Carlton gives a 4pre-concert4 lecture at 7:30 pm in 
the Alumni Concert Hall.
Special Events
Pittsburgh Comic Book Convention. Phantom of 
the Attic sponsors a comic book convention at the 
University Inn. There are 45 dealers tables of com
ics and comic-related merchandise. Guests include 
Ron Frenz, Tom Grindberg, Fred Hembeck, Reg
gie Byers and the staff of Arrow comics. The show 
runs from 10 am to 6 pm, Saturday and 11 am to 
4 pm, Sunday. Admission $2.50 per day or $3.50 
for two days. For more information call 621-1210.
14
Monday
Movies
i
Seven Beauties, starring Giancario 
Giannini, Fernando Rey and Shirley Stoler. Unforget
table film about a small time WWII soldier who finds 
himself imprisoned in a concentration camp with 
amazing results. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 and 
9:30. Admission $2.95.
Clubs
*
Macintosh Users Group. Meeting at 6:30 pm in 
DH A317.
If you wish to place an announcement, classified 
ad, miscellaneous item, or event in The Tartan send 
it in care o/'Leslie Gordon/ACME, Public Relations, 
Camegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA. 15213; 
send it via campus mail to the above address; or drop 
it off at 5017 Forbes Ave. Events may be sent through 
computer mail to TT999TF. Only classified ads will 
be accepted over the phone.
Please include the following information when sub
mitting events: title of event, sponsor, brief description. I 
location, date, and time. In addition, include the 
name and phone number of the person submitting; this 
information will be used only to confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the accuracy or 
validity of any Events listings. In addition, it reserves 
the right to edit or omit any listing for publication.
Classified ad forms are available in our office.
All events are free of charge and open to the general 
CMU student population unless otherwise noted.
Deadline for Acme Submissions is Wednesday at 5 
pm for the next weeks issue. If you have any com
ments or suggestions, send them to any of the address.* 
listed above.

---------------------------------------------------

camegiemellnConcerts
is
Havin A Party
with
SOUTHSIDE JOHNNY 
AND 
THE JUKES
Friday, April 18 
4:30 pm
ON THE CUT
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Features
Apartheid, American Style: The Navajo Indian Relocation
Bv ERIC HALL ARNETT
Special to The Tartan
As indignation at the obscenity of apartheid 
in South Africa sweeps the United States and 
all but the most anachronistic of its leaders, and 
as CMU digests what was learned at the apar
theid teach-in, we would do well to 
remind ourselves of our own 
foibles. Certainly nothing as ghastly 
as Pretorias continuing atrocity 
has existed within our borders for some time, 
but what is going on even now should not be 
tolerated. If forced relocation of aboriginal 
peoples living their traditional lifestyles in 
homelands decreed by longstanding treaty 
sounds like it cant happen here, read on.
By next July, the U.S. government plans to 
have completed the removal of approximately
10,000 Navajo people from a homeland on 
which they and their families have lived for 
generations. It is the largest mandatory civilian 
relocation since the World War II internment 
of Japanese Americans, and it is one of the 
largest forced removals of aboriginal (native) 
Americans in our history.
These people are residents of the Big Moun
tain area, where the Hopi and Navajo tribes 
have lived in close proximity to each other for 
generations. The Hopi live a peaceful life on 
the tops of mesas, running down to work their 
fields by day, while the Navajo herd their sheep 
over the lower groundwide ranges of scrubby 
desert pasture. It is of the most remote and 
culturally isolated regions in the Navajo nation. 
The Navajo culture flourishes here, inspiring 
less traditional Navajo who return home for 
spiritual nourishment.
In 1868, after years of resistance and exile, 
the Navajo were left on the reservation in what 
is now four Comers (the coming-together of 
Utah. Colorado, New Mexico, and Arizona). In 
1882. the Hopi reservation was neatly carved 
out of its center, a square one degree of latitude
long and one degree of longitude wide. The land 
immediately surrounding the Hopi villages was 
designated for their exclusive use, while the rest 
of the square became shared land known as the 
Joint Use Area, or JUA.
Then, in 1921, oil was discovered on Nava
jo land, and the Bureau of Indian Affairs, of 
BIA, moved swiftly to create Tribal Councils 
that were empowered with, among other things, 
the authority to negotiate and lease mineral 
rights. In 1950, the Peabody Coal company 
discovered the extensive Black Mesa coal fiel 
which extends into the JUA. But they were hav
ing a difficult time obtainging leases for the JUA 
mineral rights, because of the two tribes' joint 
ownership.
At this point, a lawyer for the Hopi Tribal
Council, who was also working for the Peabody 
Company, began lobbying efforts to divide the 
shared land, rumors of a land dispute were 
started, but have been denied several times by 
leaders from both tribes.
Arizonas U.S. Senator Barry Goldwater step
ped in with a bill proposing a 50-50 split of the 
JUA. This bill became a law, PL93-531, in 
1974, and the JUA was divided by barbed wire 
fence. The tribes were also obliged under the 
new law to reduce their herds by 90% and were 
forbidden any further construction or improve
ment to their property. A Relocation Commis
sion was formed to remove all the Navajo liv
ing on Hopi land and vice versa.
The Tribal Councils, who stand to benefit 
financially from the mineral leases, are
cooperating with the Relocation Commission, 
but the Navajo land has long been filled to 
capacitv. Navajos living on land that was out
side the JUA are already struggling to survive 
and can hardly by expected to make room for 
another 10,000 people. Washingtons current 
solution is to buy housing for these people 
in the slums of cities like Flagstaff and Gallup.
Many JUA Navajos neither speak nor unders
tand English. Nor are they familiar with the 
white peoples laws, having lived life in their 
traditional ways in harmony with natures 
cycles. Their religion, livelihood, and way of life 
are tied to the land, and Navajos who have been 
relocated to the unfamiliar urban environment 
do not fare well with welfare gencies, taxes, utili
ty bills, or law enforcement agencies. Most are 
experiencing serious financial difficulties, poor 
health, emotional stress and the break-up of 
their families and tribe. Few can find work and 
the suicide and alcoholism rates among Navajo 
have increased drastically. Others have lost their 
homes to criditors and have tried to crowd back 
onto the reservation land.
While the social costs are high to these peo
ple, who are attempting to salvage their culture 
while living within longstanding treaties with the 
U.S., the fiscal cost to taxpayers is not to be 
taken lightly. Pennsylvanias Arlen Specter is 
leading a group of U.S. senators on the Ap
propriations Committee who want to spend 
$85.5 million for Navajo relocation in 1986 
alone. If you are interested in learning more 
about whats going on, or what you can do to 
make the U.S. a little bit less like South Africa, 
come to a slideshow depicting the situation. Its 
being presented by the Peace Alliance on April 
10 at 6 p.m. in Skibo Room 45. Literature is 
available from Susan Mervis at 683-7277.
The author is a graduate student in Peace and 
International Security in the Department of 
Engineering and Public Policy.
The 4,000 Mile Human Chain for Americas Homeless
By HELEN NEW BERG
Tartan Staffw/iter
Everyone knows the song We are the 
World. Everyone. Most people know the story 
behind itthe intent to raise money to help feed 
people in Africa. About a year ago, Bob Geldoff 
kicked off the trend of using megastars to 
donate time and talent in order to raise money 
for needy people. The ventures have worked, 
so far, in a big way.
The USA for Africa people are now attemp
ting something greater than just getting stars 
together to perform. They are trying to raise 
money to help Americas needy. Alot of peo
ple realize that there are problems in our own 
country that it would be nice to have under con
trol. The event to help Americas needy is call
ed Hands Across America. On May 25, bet
ween 3:00 and 3:10 pm, if all goes well, more 
than 6 million Americans will join hands, link
ing the east coast with the west coast in a line 
that crosses 16 states, Pennsylvania included. 
The funds raised will go toward feeding 
America's hungry and housing Americas
(TMa
homeless. There are too many people in both 
categories. Approximately 20 million 
Americans go hungry some time each month, 
and up to 2.5 million people are homeless. 
Both numbers are climbing especially the 
numbers of families with children lacking 
homes. All across Pennsylvania, organizations 
like the Salvation Army and church-related 
groups have noted significant increase in the 
numbers of people needing their services.
In order to join the line, you must pledge a 
minimum of ten dollars. 1,320 people per mile,
4,000 miles. Radio stations are going to play 
a large role in organizing peoplethe route has 
been divided into areas each radio station along 
the way is responsible for approximately 10 
miles of people. Pledges of ten dollars will not 
only reserve your place in line, but also earn 
you a commemorative certificate. With a twentyfive dollar pledge, you get a certificate and tshirt. Thirty-five dollars gets you the certificate, 
shirt, plastic visor, and official lapel pin. You 
can reserve places for your friends along with 
yourself, in order that you can stand together.
Americans like being Americans; Americans 
like doing big things with other Americans. 
"Hands Across America is giving Americans a 
chance to participate in the biggest single event 
in history, to have a good time, and to help other 
Americans. National Co-chairs of the project 
are Kenny Rogers, Pete Rose, Lily Tomlin, and 
Bill Cosby.
The line will pass through Pittsburgh. Other 
major cities include New York City, Baltimore, 
Philadelphia, Cincinnati, Columbus and 
Cleveland, Washington DC, Trenton, Princeton, 
and Chicago. Seana Chun has information on 
campus. In Pittsburgh, you can call the state 
coordinator: 391-9083. To pledge and join the 
line you can call 1-800-USA-9000.
Coming Together for a Cause
Well, heres Theo for another week. Sorry if your 
letter didn't make it this time, but well get to it, 
believe me. Remember, if you have any questions, 
answers, problems, or good comments direct them 
to Theo in care of the Features Editor of the Tartan (Skibo 50). Theo till it hurts.
Dear The,
I am a kleptomaniac and I cant stop. Taking 
things is the biggest thrill I get from life. I steal pen
cils, pick-up lines, jokes, spouses, groceries 
anything I can get my hands on. That, however, is 
not my dilemma. My problem is that I have a very 
small apartment and 1 am running out of room to 
store all this stuff. What do you recommend?
KJep-toe
Dear Robber,
In my vast experience with criminology, I have 
found a few ways to deal with your type. A bonfire 
is generally recommended for burning the stolen 
goods. This not only satisfies the kleptomaniac, but 
pyromaniac friends will enjoy the show. Another 
suggestion is to give the loot away to the less for
tunate (the poor). Although this is a highly altruistic 
gesture and often leads to Nobel Prize nominations, 
it leaves you with absolutely nothing.
In your case, I think you should gather up all of 
these hot items, steal a few picnic tables, and 
throw yourself a little rummage sale. It's fun. pro
fitable, and assdasjajy.
Theo
By AMANDA COHEN
Tartan Staffwriter 
Why would fifty students get up at (or stay 
up until) 4:30 in the morning to 
catch a bus? Why would they 
donate just over 20 hours of their 
precious Carnegie Mellon time 
when they really should be studying? What 
could be in their minds when they make these 
sacrifices of time, money, and posterboard? 
Devotion to a cause. And on March 9th, the 
cause was Womens Lives, which translates to 
Human Rights.
The specific right was the right to control 
ones own reproductive processes; namely to 
keep contraceptives and abortion safe and legal. 
The issue currently stands as a handle on all 
rights, as it is the deciding factor on the Civil 
Rights Restoration Act. This bill would reinstate 
and strengthen all gutted and undermined 
civil rights acts of the past. One of those past 
acts is the Roe vs. Wade case that legalized 
abortion. This is the right that we are expected 
to sacrifice for the Civil Rights Restoration act.
So we were going to march in Washington for 
all Human Rights. We were led under the ban
ner of Carnegie Mellons Students for Choice, 
but we marched for everyone. Our group of 
about fifty activists represented a sigificant in
crease in campus awareness; not hard to believe
when you realize that most of them would be 
up at 9:30 the next morning to demonstrate for 
Divestment.
lThe people United will never be Defeated/
Anticipation of excitement, along with 
doughnuts and milk, kept us awake at the begin
ning of the 5 hour ride to D.C., but some even
tually dozed off on their neighbors shoulders. 
The communal feelings were strong~we all knew 
why we were there. Many a story and a blanket 
were shared among those who had just met 
while waiting for the bus. Others painted lastminute posters in the back of the bus, until final
ly we saw the sun over the Nations Capital.
During the assembly on the mall between the 
Capital building and the Washington Monu
ment, our band of students could see the true 
scale of the of the event. There were four or 
five seemingly endless lines of people carrying 
all manner of appropriate signs and flags, as 
well as some opposing banners flying over a 
smattering of counter-protesters. The counter
demonstrators faced disagreements but met no 
violence. Volunteers from local NOW (National 
Organization of Women) chapters coordinated 
all of the incoming groups and directed them 
to their assigned places in the massive queue 
continued on pap* 33

---------------------------------------------------

March For Womens Rights
continued from page 32
of cheering, chanting, and anxiously waiting 
marchers. Pittsburgh busses brought groups like 
Pitt, Pittsburgh NOW, and other area colleges 
in addition to Carnegie Mellon. All NOW group 
leaders carried banners of purple, white, and 
gold with lettering which identified the groups 
homes. People had come from as far as 
Southern Florida and even Alaska to show their 
support for the cause of Womens Lives.
Photographers, most of them identified by 
big, red tags marked PRESS, ran rampant 
as the march began. A truly historic even was 
taking place before their lenses; the largest 
assembled demonstration for reproductive and 
all rights in history. The mass of proud mar
chers (estimated at 80, 100, and 150 thousand, 
depending upon who you asked or believed) fill
ed the streets past the White House and on 
around towards Capital Hill. In some places, 
loudspeakers could be heard over the crowd, 
booming words that could have driven us to a 
non-violent war, w'hich was essentially where we 
were going. Localized chants and cheers for the 
cause floated in and out of various regions in 
the march, and nobody was ashamed to yell, 
sing, scream, and shout for rights.
 Tor our Grandmothers, for our Mothers, for our 
Sisters, for our Daughters, Forever!!
The symbol of the wire hanger, a classic icon 
of dangerous illegal abortions, was inescapable. 
Signs and posters bore protests of every type, 
from the simple Keep your Laws off my Body 
to one particularly poignant sign which read, 
My Mom had an illegal abortion. I dont miss 
the baby. I miss my Mom.
Most groups stayed fairly unified under their 
own banners like Virgina Catholics for Free 
Choice and Smith College Dykes for Choice. 
Some individuals chose to leave the groups with 
whom they had traveled to find friends or family 
from other states. Most of these were college 
students whos home towns also sent marchers. 
Friends ran shrieking into one anothers arms 
and they marched together. I marched with my 
mother, who had come from twice as far as 
Carnegie Mellon.
"Your school is marching too? I don 't believe 
you re here!! We always did think alike. Where 
is your group?'' "
Everybody was marching for people who 
couldnt be in Washington...people who mar
ched with us in spirit. Friends who were too 
busy, parents who thought they were too old, 
people who thought they were too far away, peo
ple who had died for lack of rights. Each mar
cher represented many spirits which lent that 
much more support to the common soul we 
created.
The steady stream of marchers poured onto 
Capitol Hill, where a stage and a sound system 
had been set out for the Rally. The NOW ban
ner holders assembled onstage as they arrived 
to the sound of a female singer and her 
melodious guitar. And the assembling masses 
sang with her as she taught the simple, power
ful lyrics. People laid down their knapsacks and 
banners, recounted their groups, and stood, sat, 
or sprawled in the sun as speaker after brilliant 
speaker redefined the cause and its recent pro
gression. Among the speakers were NOW Presi
dent Eleanor Smeal, Bella Abzug, Gloria 
Steinem, and singer Holly Near. Everyone con
firmed that this was the march of the decade, 
if not of history. It was announced that ProLife supporters would have to find a new 
slogan, because we were also pro-life. One 
speaker mentioned of the weather that if there 
was a God, she was certainly smiling on us to
day. Even after two and a half hours of 
speakers, cheers, and music, the marchers kept 
eoming in from the march route to find rest and 
strength on Capitol Hill.
As a symbol of persistance, the oldest mar
cher present was introduced onstage; she was 
92 years old. To add perspective to the extent 
f her activism, it was explained that she had
marched for the right for women to vote. With 
this achievement in mind, it was easy to feel that 
our persistance in the fight for the cause would 
not fail. Speakers talked in the definite form; 
 When women can choose,  When couples of 
any sex can raise their children with open 
eyes, When there is true equality...
*
And if you are feeling tired, you should inter
pret that you are feeling sleepy, and lay down 
and rest. But not that you are tired of our fight 
and want to give up. We are not. 
-Holly Near, at the Rally
The people stretched beyond sight in most 
directions, and at about five in the evening, an 
equally incredible amount of busses came to 
take most of the demonstrators home, while 
some of them stayed for the lobby the next day. 
Only a few Carnegie Mellon people stayed; we 
had classes. In twos and threes we arrived at 
the place we would meet our bus. We compared 
notes, pins, and suntans. Leaving D.C., some 
of us marveled at the realization that in one day, 
we had left our school and city to go to the 
Capital of the United States, because we believ
ed we had something to say there. Having said 
it, we simply drove back home....an historic day 
trip was over. Nearly everone sfept on the way 
back to Carnegie Mellon, tired of the day but 
not of the cause.,
ICELAmiR TO EUROPE. 
EVERYTHIN
THAT ISN'T A RARGAIN 
IS ERE
To Luxembourg: Roundtrip Fare
New York$458*$499t
Chicago$518*$5591
Balt/Wash.$488*$529
Detroit$588*S5491
Oliando$518*$559
Get in on our lowest fare to Europe in years. And with it, get a lot 
more than just the trip over. Because, when you fly Icelandair, you get 
everything you expect from a full-service airline, with no charge for 
meals or baggage. Every fare includes free wine with your in-flight 
dinner and free cognac after.
Icelandair Values Continue After You Land: Free deluxe, roundtrip motorcoach between Luxembourg and select cities in Germany, 
Belgium and Holland. Special $15 train fares to Switzerland or France. 
Super Saver Kemwel car rentals at just $59 per week in Luxembourg. 
And, if you choose, a day or two stopover in Europes most beautifully 
kept secret, Iceland.
Super Bargain Fare, 6-30 day stay. TSuper Grouper Fare, 1-365 
day stay. Valid 5/16-6/8/86, $3.00 departure tax applies. For information & reservations, call your travel agent or Icelandair at 1/800-223-5500.ICELANDAIR
PICK UP
APARTY
THIS BUD S
?41 24/5
auOWEtSCMHlNG OF MER$*-AMHEUSER Ahbpo mlL ygw fvMg

---------------------------------------------------

THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
^ WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS OF CMU 
^ REASONABLE RENTAL RATES!
? THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND!
^ "THE FAIRFAX" ...4614 5th AVE.!
? YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
Furnished Apts. Available
The management invites the Faculty 
Merfibers, Graduate Students & CMU 
Guests to visit and inspect our ONE 
BEDROOM & STUDIO APARTMENTS
Available for immediate occupancy
Dial 621-4030
We'll see YOU at 
"THE FAIRFAX" ...Neighbor.
ATTENTION CMU ARTISTS AND CRAFTPERSONS
The 1986 Spring Carnival is sponsoring an Arts and Crafts Fair 
on Friday, April 18 and Saturday, April 19 from noon-6pm. If 
you are interested in participating, please fill out the form 
below and submit to the Office of Student Activities, Information 
Desk in care of Spring Carnival by Monday, April 14.
NAMEART/CRAFT
ADDRESSNUMBER OF TABLES
PHONE
-------
It walk-in tutoring program 
och wokSunday thru thursday 7pm-10pm
Calculus PH - 126A
Pve I, R, M
Physics PH - 1266
Chemistry PH -2256
Englsh as a BH - 1356
second language
Economics PH - 2266
Intro to Computing WB4-5415
Financial Accounting PH-226C
Academic WHtlng Problems 6H - 2356

---------------------------------------------------

April 8, 1986The TartanPage 35
Opinion...
Random comments on the sports world at large
By JAY KATZ
Tartan Staffwriter
Not that you cared but.. .
 I hear that Louisville defeated Duke,
72-69, for the NCAA mens basketball cham
pionship in a super basketball game. I refused 
to watch the championship because neither of 
my two teams, Cleveland State and Marist, 
made it to the final.
 The National Hockey League regular 
season is going down to the wire and much atttention has gone to the first place battle in the 
Patrick Division between the Philadelphia 
Flyers and the Washington Capitals. But the 
significance of this standing is so limited, due 
to the structure of the playoff system, that I cant 
see how players on these teams can be very 
motivated to capture the top spot. However, the 
winner is rewarded with the claim of being 
second-best team in the NHL, behind only the 
Edmonton Oilers.
 Speaking of second best, Pittsburgh 
Penguin center Mario Lemieus has a stronghold 
on the non-Wayne Gretzky scoring title, award
ed to the player who finishes second in scoring
FIRST TRINITY LUTHERAN CHURCH 
(Missouri Synod)
531 North Nevil Street. Oakland 
(within walking distance of campus)
ADULT BIBLE CLASS: 9:45 AM 
WORSHIP SERVICE: 11:00 AM 
SUNDAY EVENING FELLOWSHIP: 7:30 
PM at parsonage, 535 N. Neville
Pastor Robert Hoder 683-4440
WEBSTER HALL
Webster Hall Apartments 
Finest High Rise In 
Oakland's Cultural Center 
EFF. 1-2 BR
Your suite includes: -Heat, ,A/C, fully 
equipped kitchens,w/w carpeting, 
spacious closets.
Cable TV available 
Off street covered parking available 
Limo & bus at door 
Resident storage space 
Furnished units available 
Weekdays . .. Weekends9-5 621-4132 124
Our 1986 color catalog features many of the most innovative new products in bicycling. Together with dozens of tips to increase your riding enjoyment.To get your freej catalog, call tollfree anytime 1-800-HOT GEAR.
The advantage is obvious]
to Gretzky.
 I have noted anxiety and hope among 
Penguin fans because of the teams chance to 
not be one of the five teams eliminated from 
the playoffs during the regular season. If, by 
chance, the Pens do make the exclusive 
playoffs, one must be crazy to think that the 
team has a legitimate shot at winning the first 
round series against the Flyers on the Capitals. 
Furthermore, if their opponent is the Flyers, 
they will have to win at least one game at the 
Spectrum in Philadelphia, a feat which they 
have not accomplished, it seems, since the ad
vent of the wheel.
 Which brings out another point: For
those of you who get all worked up about the 
skyrocketing salaries of sports stars because you 
think they are undeserving, you must realize 
that paying out such money to underserving 
people is very valued in society. The everpopular Richard Nixon, who mysteriously decid
ed to resign from the presidency, still collects 
a pension well over the amount that most sports 
stars earn.
 The playoffs for the NHL and the NBA
really do not mean much to me since I realize 
that by the time the final series of each is being 
contested, I will be at home enjoying the sun 
and sights and will not want to go indoors to 
watch the tube.
 Well, baseball season is very near once 
again. I never could understand how 26 dif
ferent teams each play 162 games with perhaps 
15 minutes of action in each game (not in
cluding that of the ballgirls or the Pirate Parrot).
 The Pirates, however horrible they may 
have been last year, seem to be on a solid 
rebuilding track. This year they probably will 
play a very exciting brand of baseball while los 
ing a very alarming amount of games.
Well, folks, thats all I have for this week. If 
you liked this article, dont even bother sending 
me computer mailI hate those things. If you 
didnt like it, just keep quiet and dont send me 
any more explosives.
Francis garners All-American swim title
Junior freestyler Steve Francis swam his way 
to All-American honors for the second time in 
two years at the NCAA Division III Champion
ship a few weeks ago with a time of 46.90 
seconds in the 100 freestyle, finishing in 11th 
place. Francis also competed in the 50 freestyle
where he finsihed 20th.
The honor caps an excellent season for Fran
cis. He got off to a very quick start, qualifying 
for the NCAAs in the 50 on January 15 against 
Virginia Military Institute, and in the 100 free 
three days later against John Carroll, posting
his best two times of the season with those 
efforts.
Francis also was one of the leaders at the PAC 
Championship. He copped golds for the 100, 
200, and 500 free races, as well as in the 400 
and 800 free relays.
GRADUATES 
CALL 
1-800-457-4065 
FOR $400 AND 
PRE-APPROVED
CREDIT ON A 
NEW FORD
Its Easy To Qualify 
For $400 from Ford
Motor Company You must receive at least a bachelors degree or a state RN license between October 1, 1985 and September 30, 1986.
For Pre-approved 
Credit from Ford 
Credit You must have verifiable employment that begins within 120 days of your qualifying vehicle purchase at a salary sufficient to cover ordinary living expenses and your vehicle payment.
 Your credit record, if you have one, must indicate payment made as agreed.
 And dont forget...you must receive at least a bachelors degree or a state RN license between October 1, 1985 and September 30, 1986.
These Vehicles Are
Included In The PlanFord: Escort, Escort EXP, Tempo, Mustang, Thunderbird Mercury: Lynx, Topaz, Capri, Cougar Ford Truck: Aerostar, Bronco II, Ranger, F-150 & F-250
vtG
You are eligible for $400 even if you dont finance your purchase. Use it toward your down payment or get a check from Ford after the purchase or lease.
The amount of your preapproved credit is determined by the qualified vehicle you buy.
If a vehicle is not in dealer stock, it must be ordered by June 1, 1986. Delivery of all vehicles must be taken by August 31, 1986.
For complete details on how to get your $400 plus pre-approved credit, call the toll-free number
1-800-457-4065

---------------------------------------------------

w 11 w 11 Ini 1
wWW 1
H
FRESHMEN ACT NOW
Three Year  Full Tuition Scholarships From
Carnegie-Mellon Army Reserve Officers 
Training Corps
APPLICATION: Deadline is 18 April 1986.No obligation incurred by applying.Scholarship starts with fall semester.
ELIGIBILITY: 2 0 or better.
Full time student and a U.S. citizen.Be less than 25 years of age at graduation.Current participation not required.
SELECTION: Based primarily on evaluation of academic achievement and leadership potential. Carnegie-Mellon 
historically has over 75% of applicants as winners.
BENEFITS: Pays full tuition and allowances for fees and books  up to $1000 per year in school financial assistance.
%
For further information, contact Captain Perry Colvin 
at (412) 268-2205 or visit our office in Margaret Morrison 2nd Basement, B7
BE ALL YOU CAN BE
S
13
W 11 w1 w1 u
HW1 W
C
ATTENTION PARKING PERMIT HOLDERS OF 
AREAS 5 & 6 SKIBO
The Annual Spring Carnival will take place next 
week, April 17-19. After 5pm on Monday, April 14, 
all of area 5 and the metered lot will be used by the 
Carnival. The portion of area 6 furthest from Warner 
Hall will also be used after 5pm on Monday. Regular 
parking will resume on Monday, April 21. Thank you 
for your cooperation.
10 CUT LARGE PIZZA 
& 2 LITER PEPSI
$3.50
* V
CAP*2*
y*-- rr$ s '4
681-2202 or 681-2203

---------------------------------------------------

with brothers Ed Miles and Matt Pritchard. The 
squad took second place. Calvin, Miles, Hunter, 
McConnell and Jeff Kochanowski garnered se
cond place honors in the 50 yard breast, indis dual medley, 50 fly, 200 free, and 50 free, 
respectively.
Kappa Sigma boasts |he best undefeated 
record in Majors floor hockey at 5-0. GSIA and 
UDS follow the leaders in the Adams Dmsion 
at 4-1 and 2-2, respectively.
On the flip side in the Patrick Division, DUA and SUP A share the first place spot, with 
Cr r-.ral Red Army nipping at their heels.
The top teams in the Minora Section, Mex
ican Earthquake and Doherty Dynasty each 
stand at 4-0, and lead their sections. AF-R0TC 
and Team Oahy irail the Mexican Earthquake 
Wales Division, while AE-Pi and TDP 
the leaders in the CambeO Division.
Soccer competition, as the K -Team, the Rat 
Pack, and Real Mellon hold the wreath in the 
tavern Division. SAE and Theta Xi-A split the 
top homorfc in the Wales Bhision 
la the Minors, Pilam leads Division I, followSPOUTS IN THE PAST 
Pinochle
Congratulations to Theta-XI-I, the new cam
pus champions. Also, special thanks to commis
sioner Vince Carozza.
Backgammon 
Please report campus champion to die EM
April 8, 1986The TartanPage 37

Golfers open 1986 campaign 
with narrow 414-417 victory
By STEW LEVINE Second place went to senior Mike Fischer iBy STEW LEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter
The Golf Team opened its 1986 season under 
new Head Coach Rich Erdelyi with a narrow 
win over non-Conference opponent Westminster 
College 414-417, last Thursday at Longview
Country Club.
Top golfer on the par-72 course was senior 
Mike Morini with a score of 76. Morini is one 
of three returning all-Conference performers 
from last season. Morini finished fifth at last 
seasons PAC Championship with a 36-hole 
total of 161 strokes.
Second place went to senior Mike Fischer with 
a 78. Fischer was also all-Conference, scoring 
162 strokes for a finish of seventh place at last 
years PAC.
The next three finishers were from 
Westminster followed by three additional Tar
tans: junior Mike Fitterman, the third allConference golfer on the squad, with 85 strokes; 
junior Tom Frost at 87 strokes; and junior David 
Elias with 88.
The golf Tartans season continues this week 
with the Spiedel Invitational tomorrow at Wheel
ing and the PAC Invitational on Saturday at 
Hiram.
Associate Vice President
for Academic Affaire
Carnegie Mellon University
5000 Forbes Avenue
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213-3890
412-268-3017
Dear Members of the Class of 1987 and 1988:
This semester, under the auspices of the University Core Curriculum 
fifty undergraduates are enrolled in "The Nuclear Age" (99-200), which 
is being taught by Lincoln Wolfenstein, Robert Rich, and me. Initial 
reactions to the course have been overwhelmingly favorable. Next 
fall, a different group of distinguished faculty membersincluding 
Allen Newell, Akram Midani, Erwin Steinberg, Mel Bernstein, Paul 
Wright, and me are adding a second course to the Core menu.
"Patterns and Design" (99-200) will be a truly multi-disciplinary 
experience. Although most disciplines appear to differ in their
stated goals, their style and their content, we believe that all 
fields of inquiry seek either to find and analyze patterns or to
design solutions to problems and that most students and teachers
probably do both. Furthermore, we hypothesize, by examining specific 
problems from the widely disparate disciplines represented on this 
campus, we can actually demonstrate how patterns and designs
interrelate in ways that make them interdependent. For example,
social scientist# (and most of you) are bewildered by the "rite of
passage" known as "adolescence." This pattern of life, in turn, has 
been made (designed) into a literary motif in seemingly different 
novels as Butler* s The Way of All Flesh. Joyoe's A Portrait of the 
Artist as a Young Man, and Salinger's Catcher in the Rye.
Why should you take this course? For openers, the faculty is stellar. 
Furthermore, the topic promises to broaden your approach to your CMU
education. It is not often that scientists, engineers, artists,
humanists and social scientists try to figure out how patterns evolve 
and solutions are designed in their own disciplines. It is even rarer 
that bright people attempt to understand how all disciplines share 
many of the same methods and goals. Simply put, this course will be 
an interdisciplinary experiment well worth the effort.
This course will be offered on Tuesday and Thursday from 12*30 to 
1:45. We have decided to limit enrollment to 25-30 students in the 
present sophomore and junior desses. If you want more details, 
contact my office (x3627) or eend me computer mall (WAIPcmcctd).
Sincerely,
W. Andrew Achenbaum
Associate Vice President 
for Academic Affairs and 
Professor of History

---------------------------------------------------

Pa^e 38The TartanApril 8. 1986
Fearless Forecasters Choose Eastern JayscBy CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Special to The Tartan
Well, usually I get to do this whole thing, but 
certain, shall we say, circumstances, have 
limited my duties for the year.
Ah, yes, the American League East. The most 
powerful division in baseball. For four straight 
years, the team that has won this division has 
finished the year before. So theory would have 
it that the Yankees should win this year. Many 
pre-season magazines are picking the mighty 
Yanks to take the title, led by their powerful 
young MVP Don Mattingly. It is almost impossi
ble to repeat in this division. So who is this 
Lewis guy picking? The defending champion 
Toronto Blue Jays, of course.
Here they are, the picks for the AL East of 
1986:
First Place - Toronto Blue Jays:
There have been a lot of so-called great teams 
in the last few years. The Milwaukee Brewers 
of 1982, the Cubs of '84, and the Tigers who 
went 35-5 to start the 1984 season. None of 
these teams repeated the next year, so how can 
I pick the Blue Jays repeat. Simple. All of those 
teams had something in common; their players 
had career years. " Many of the players on 
those teams have yet to duplicate the years they 
had when their teams won the division. Look 
up Larry Herndon, Ben Ogilvie and Jody Davis 
for evidence.
In 1985, the division champion Blue Jays had 
few players who had career years. Actually, 
many of their players had off years. First 
baseman Willie Upshaw hit only 15 homers and 
knocked in only 65 runs. Centerfilder Lloyd 
Moseby batted just .259. They got almost no 
relief pitching until Tom Henke arrived from 
Syracuse, because Bill Caudill and Gary Lavelle 
were major disappointments. Look for Caudill 
to make a big comeback as Henke takes some 
of the pressure off of him.
The Blue Jays are potentially a great team. Dave 
Stieb pitched great, with an ERA of 2.48, yet 
he had only a 14-13 record. And despite all 
these disappointments, the Jays of Blue still won 
the AL East, and should have gone to the World 
Series. They also had very little production from 
the DH spot. How did they win? Great pitching 
depth plus two of the best young outfielders in 
the game today, George Bell (28 HR, 95 RBI, 
.275 avg.) and Jesse Barfield (27, 84, .289). 
Shortstop Tony Fernandez, mark my words, will 
one day be in the baseball Hall of Fame. And 
if hes not, you certainly wont remember.
Its not automatic. The Jays need good perfor
mances from 37 year old Doyle Alexander 
(17-10, 3.45) and Moseby must have a good 
year after being moved to the leadoff spot. They 
should be able to hold off the Yanks, Tigers and 
Orioles. Keys to victory: Alexander and 
Moseby.
Second Place - Baltimore Orioles:
Im from New York, and Id love to see the 
Yanks in the series, so the Mets could embarass 
Steinbrenner head-to-head. Everyone talks 
about all of the Yankees firepower, but it was 
the Orioles who led the majors in home runs 
last year. Their pitching Is jiot as bad as it was 
last year. And believe it or not, the Orioles have 
the best one-two-three hitting punch in all of 
baseball. Hernandez, Carter and Strawbeery 
come close, but with Cal Ripken (26,110,.282), 
Eddie Murray (31,124,.297) and the most 
underrated player in both leagues, Mike Young 
(28,81,.273), the Os take it.
Add Fred Lynn, Lee Lacy, speedy (no pun 
intended) Alan Wiggins, and Floyd Rayford (18 
homers,.306) and this is a very powerful attack.
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALLthei d crnla yur.gu mr3um:2y JalclsLlD vlaJ
They will not wrin the division beacuse of a 
bullpen that is weak at best. Tippy Martinez can 
no longer be thought of as a stopper. Don Aase 
couldnt throw one by George Steinbrenner, let 
alone George Brett or George Bell. Scott
McGregor and Mike Boddicker will definitely 
come back from off years, and youngsters Storm 
Davis and Ken Dixon will continue to grow. 
Mike Flanagan is a weak spot, but that isnt a 
bad weak spot. Keys to victory: Wiggins getting 
on base and finding a bullpen stopper.
Third Place - Detroit Tigers:
Still no Yankees. The Tigers have the best 
starting rotation in the division. Walt Terrell is 
a great forth starter, and Dave LaPoint got the 
shaft last year in San Francisco. If guys like 
Herndon (12,37,.244) and Chet Lemon 
(18,68,-265) come back from off years, look 
out for the Tigers.
One move made by Sparky Anderson that I 
just dont understand is relegating Darrell Evans 
to platoon-DH duties. I know hes 38, but the 
guy hit 40 homers last year. You cant just take 
a bat like that out of the lineup every other day 
and expect it not to hurt you. Mike Laga, a 
rookie, will step in at first base. Twins reject 
Dave Engle will platoon with Evans.
Willie Hernandez must have a good year in 
the pen, and Alan Trammell must return to allstar form at short. If his shoulder still hurts, this 
team may finish behind Cleveland. Ouch.
Keys to winning: Trammell and third starter 
Frank Tanana must perform well to win, and 
Dave Collins must reach first base and steal the 
other ones.
Fourth Place - New York Yankees:
If the Yankees get any sort of starting pitching 
at all, forget what I said previous to this and 
place the Bronx Bombers in first place. The 
prediction here is that they wont. You tell me 
one guy who is assured of winning 15 games
for the Yankees, and Ill give you a reason why 
he wont.
The last time Ron Guidry won 20 games for 
Billy Martin, he was so strung out the following 
year that he was 10-11. Britt Burns will not 
throw again this year, so scratch him. Because 
Fat George is a cheap rich man, Phil Niekro 
will get to win games for the Indians this year. 
I hope he beats the Yankees on the last day of 
the season and costs the Yanks the pennant. 
His brother Joe had an ERA of almost four in 
a pitchers park last year, and has shown signs 
of slowing down at age 41. He is not his brother, 
he will not be successful until he collects Social 
Security. And if the Yankees were so high on 
rookies Bob Tewksbury and Doug Drabek, how 
come a New York baseball fan like me has 
never heard of either one of them before this 
season?
All other facets of this team are extremely 
strong. You want stolen bases, they got Rickey 
Henderson (24,72,.314,80 SBs). You want 
hitting for average, theyll throw Henderson and 
Mattingly (.324,35,145) at you. And power, 
whew, what power. Mattingly, Winfield, 
Henderson, newly acquired Mike Easier and 
Gary Roenicke, Mike Pagliarulo; they all hit 
over 15 homers last year. Easier will have an 
even bigger year with the short porch in Yankee 
Stadium, and Pag is ready to blossom at third. 
Even the bullpen was strong, with Dave Righetti 
and Brian Fisher leading a cast of thousands.
But they will not be that good. Their 
weakness, starting pitching, is the worst 
weakness you can have. Ask the next team on 
the list what one homer will do for you if the 
other guys are hitting two. Keys to winning: Cat
cher Butch Wynegar and all the starting 
pitching.
Fifth Place - Boston Red Sox:
The front office of the Red Sox sat down last 
week and came to a conclusion; the 1986 Red 
Sox will not contend without some major renova
tions. They were right. Get moving, Sox.
If my life were at stake and I needed one guy
to get his bat on the bullet aimed at my head, 
it would be Wade Boggs. Now, if the Red Sox 
would just put him third in the order, he would 
knock in 100 runs. The problem is that if Boggs 
is moved down, they will have no one to get on 
base in front of him, because Glenn Hoffman 
is not good and Marty Barrett only slightly bet
ter. This team has no speed. Until they get 
some, they will not contend, and their pitchers 
ERA, not good to begin with, will soar. The 
fielders are not reaching many balls, so their 
pitchers are not making many outs. And their 
big guys hit into so many double plays that they 
are constantly killing potential rallies. Boggs 20, 
Buckner 16, Rice 35 (definitely not Minute 
Bice), Armas 14, Gedman 12. Thats just got 
to stop.
Oh, and by the way, I do not consider Don 
Baylor speed.
Keys to Contending: The pitching of Oil Can 
Boyd and Roger Clemens, and the hope that 
somebody goes ahead and makes the changes.
Sixth Place - Cleveland Indians:
The up and coming team of the division. 
Cleveland fans, please be patient! The time for 
this team will come within five years, but you 
must be patient. The front office is finally go
ing to build upon a nucleus of young talent, led 
by Brett Butler (.311), third baseman Brook 
Jacoby (20,87,.274), and shortstop Julio Fran
co (6,90,.288). This is a team with a formidable 
lineup but absolutely no pitching. That will 
come in time, but the must be careful not to 
trade away their talent.
Look for a big year out of leftfielder Joe Carter 
and rightfielder Mel Hall. Eventually, the Rick 
Sutcliffe trade will look like a steal for the In
dians. They have no real weak spot in their 
everyday lineup except catcher, where incum
bent Jerry Willard was cut from the squad, leavCLEVELAND 
INDIANS
ing rookie Andy Allanson, jumping from AA 
ball, and Chris Bando to battle for the starting 
job. Bando hit .139 last year. That is not a 
misprint.
I will not talk about the Indians pitching other' 
than to say that they just signed a 47-year-old 
who couldnt make the Yankees staff to be the 
ace of their staff, and a guy who couldnt make 
the Twins will be the number two starter, Ken 
Schrom. Nothing else needs to be said.
Keys to Contending: Patience. Find some pit
ching and this will one day be a great team. DO 
NOT rush Cory Snyder, a future star, to the ma
jors just for kicks. Patience.
Seventh Place -Milwaukee Brewers:
The best young lefthander in baseball plays 
for Milwaukee and his name is Ted Higuera-> 
Emest Riles is one of the best young shortstops. 
However, Rick Cerone is not one of the best 
catchers.
The Brewers have gone to a kiddy corps of 
starting pitchers this year. Now if they would 
just ^ive up on the memories of Ben Ogilvie, 
*<  u k .
f
a -
 w 
Charlie Moore, Rick Manning and others, 
maybe guys with potential like Randy Ready, 
Jim Adducci and Glenn Braggs will have a 
chance to play. But until the World Series of 
1982 is forgotten, the Brewers can be forgot
ten too.
Keys to mediocrity: A good job by their young 
starters and the return to superstardom of Bobiri 
Yount, only 30 and out in centerfield now. 
Mediocrity is all this team can achieve in 1986.
The other leagues: The mighty Mets will win 
their division as Dwight Gooden and Bon Darl
ing both win 20 and Darryl has a 40-40 year 
never seen before. Petes Reds look even Rosier 
with the addition of Denny and Gullickson and 
the development of Nick Esasky, not to men
tion the fact that the Dodgers will not have 
Pedro Guerrero until at least the all star break. 
And, believe it or not, the Seattle Mariners w?ll 
rise above the extremely mediocre AL West. 
Outside of George Brett, Kansas City has no 
reliable hitters. They may have the worst offense 
in all of baseball. They will still be high up in 
that division. Look for Danny Tartabull to hit 
30 as a rookie second baseman in the 
Kingdome. Last year I picked the Dodgers, and 
no one believed me then, either.

---------------------------------------------------

April 8, 1986The TartanPage 39
. and Swingin5 As
By JOHN BALDAN
Special to The Tartan
It is a mistake to try to look too far 
ahead. The chain of destiny can on
ly be grasped one link at a time 
Churchill.
Before game 7 of the World Series last Oc
tober, with John Tudor on the mound for the 
unquestionably superior Cardinals, how many 
predicted the Royals to be World Champions? 
How much harder to predict the winner seven 
months in advance! Notwithstanding Mr. Chur
chill, it has become baseball tradition to pick 
autumn favorites before the last frost days in 
the spring. So here is the American League 
West, big in spirit if not in talent, one link at 
a time, from the bottom of the chain up: 
Seventh Place - Seattle Mariners 
Every year, Seattle fans hope to see a mark
ed improvement in the Ms. Lately the improve
ment hasnt been there at all. After two straight 
74-88 seasons, is Seattle ready to follow in the 
footsteps of their expansion counterparts, the 
Blue Jays, to domination? The answer is no, and 
word is that this team will not last much longer 
in Seattle.
There isnt a total dearth of hope in the 
recesses of the Kingdome. Left fielder Phil 
Bradley slashed 26 home runs while hitting an 
even .300, stealing 22 bases and playing good 
defense. Third baseman Jim Presley batted 
.275 and added 28 home runs and 84 RBIs. 
Alvin Davis knocked a solid .287 last season 
at first base. These three form last season's 
triumvirate of good hitters that took many 
observers by surprise. But on their own, these 
players cannot carry a ball club.
Questions abound throughout t]?e lineup. A 
subpar up-the-middle includes inexperienced 
Danny Tartabull and Spike Owen at 2B and SS, 
and Dave Henderson (.241) in CF. Rightfield 
is up for grabs. Two players dragging out their 
careers but slated for substantial play this 
season are Gorman Thomas (.215, 32 HR) and 
catcher Steve Yeager (.207, 0 HR).
As for pitching, beyond Mike Moore, last 
seasons excellent aquisition from the Angels 
(1 7-10, 3.46), the Mariners will look for im
provement from Jim Beattie, Frank Wills and 
Matt Young, or for help from youngsters Karl 
Best, Paul Mirabella and Roy Thomas. All in 
all. look for a bunch of 8-5 losses from the boys 
in Seattle.
Sixth Place - Texas Rangers
One can tell that the Rangers will be fun to 
"atch this season just by looking at their line
upWhat line-up? Half the guys who make the 
team this year will probably be spring training 
"alk-ons, and the team that finishes the year 
"ill probably bear no resemblance to the team 
that started it. A summary prediction: a fast start 
wing to some really inspired play by the 
unknowns, a horrendous mid-season slip, and 
a late season recovery lasting into 1987. Pro
gnosis: sixth place.
Among the unknowns are several quality 
players. Unheralded IB Pete OBrien (.267, 22 
HR) and OF Gary Ward (.287, 15 HR, 26 SB) 
are solid players, as are veteran 2B Toby Harrah (.270) and DH Larry Parrish (.249). Don 
Slaught compiled a hefty .280 BA (for a cat
cher) in 102 games. But the real interest lies 
in seeing who will be major-league caliber. The 
best bet is RF slugger Pete Incaviglia. Number 
zero Oddibe McDowell (18 HR,25 SB) pro
bably has what it takes in center field. Of 
course, not all experiments succeed. Will 
George Wright raise his average above .200 this 
year, after batting .190 in 109 games? And who 
is Ruben Sierra? The Sporting News 1986 
Baseball Yearbook remarks that he has never 
seen a professional pitch. Oh, come on, hasnt 
he ever seen the NBC-TV Game of the Week?
The Rangers might realize a really rocky road 
on the rubber. Among the starters, Charlie 
Hough had the only solid 1985 (14-16, 3.31), 
and is will be out for the beginning of the 
season. Hes 38, but thats 30 in knuckleball 
years. Greg Harris had a workmanlike year in 
relief (5-4, 2.57, 11 SV). Then, nobody knows. 
Might as well just list the candidatesnames. The 
novices: Jose Guzman, Dwayne Henry, Mike 
Mason, Scott Patterson, Matt Williams, Ricky 
Wright and Kenny Rogers (honest). The retur
ning veterans include Dave Rozema and Mickey 
Mahler. Not much.
Fifth Place - Minnesota Twins
Two years ago, the Minnesota Twins shock
ed a lot of fans by placing only three games out 
in the A.L. West. Last year they slumped to 
77-85 under new manager/pitching coach Ray 
Miller. On the surface, the Twins seem to have 
the hitting, but many of their offensive statistics 
must be viewed through the rose-colored light 
of the Homer Dome . Their leading power hit
ter, Tom Brunansky, had only 27 home runs 
as he tailed off from a fast start. Kent Hrbeks
21 home runs and Gary Gaettis 20 are respec
table, but not impressive. The Twins did hit 
.264, good for fifth in the league, paced by 
Mark Salass .300, Kirby Pucketts .288 and 
Mickey Hatchers .282. Superficially, at least, 
all fine hitting stats.
And to boot, the Twins have a strong starting 
staff, right? Well...the four primary starting 
pitch ers for the Twins last season, Frank Viola, 
68 Mike Smithson, Ken Schrom and John But
cher had a composite ERA of 4.54, worse than 
the team ERA of 4.48, 11th in the American 
League. Sure, part of it again is the ball park; 
but lets face it, they have to play half their 
games there. If Ray Miller doesnt get 
discouraged over the way the ball carries in the 
Dome, sooner or later his young pitchers might.
A ball park so advantageous to the hitters 
tends to hurt a teams chances over the course 
of the season (witness Fenway Park, and 
Wrigley Field until 1984), and ruin young pit
ching talent to boot. If the Twins dont get off 
to a fast start, look for a 5th place finish and 
a new manager...
Fourth Place - California Angels 
More than any other team in the A.L. West, 
the Angels are full of questions, which makes 
them a pretty good selection for fourth (they 
might finish anywhere from third to sixth). So, 
here are some questions: can Don Sutton have 
another amazing season (last year, 15-10*3.19) 
at the age of 41? Will Kirk McCaskill (12-12, 
4.70) once again receive hefty offensive sup
port from an aging infield including Doug
DeCinces at 3B, injury-prone Bobby Grich at 
2B, and Rick Burleson at SS? Although no 
weaker than any other A.L. West team in the 
catching department last year, can the Angels 
hope for another solid year from 39-year old 
Bob Boone? Jerry Narron is the weak-hitting 
alternative.
A streak of light hitting runs straight up the 
middle of the diamond; while Dick Schofield 
and Gary Pettis earned high marks defensive
ly, especially CF Pettis (the next Willie Mays, 
etc.), they hit .219 and .257, with 8 and 1 HRs 
respectively. Brian Downing, Ruppert Jones, 
and Reggie Jackson, who combined last year 
for 281 strikeouts, hold down the other two out
field and DH spots.
The pitching staff offers some hope in Mike 
Witt (remember, he pitched a no-hitter a cou
ple of years back) and Ron Romanick, with a 
tough Donnie Moore (8-8, 1.92) and Stu 
Cliburn (9-3, 2.09) in the pen. Notice how this 
review has gone from questions to statements; 
super-manager Gene Mauch hopes to do the 
same in 1986. Without Mauch at the helm, the 
Angels might have been doomed to sink in a 
morass of uncertainty over the everyday lineup. 
But with him, dont count on them visiting the 
divisions depths.
Third Place - Chicago White Sox
Like the Royals, the White Sox have some 
conspicuous veterans (Tom Seaver, Carlton 
Fisk) among a contingent of youngsters. There 
are more holes in the Chisox lineup, though. 
2B acquisition Wayne Tolleson, who hit .313 
in a half-season for Texas, and RHP Joe 
Cowley, 12-6 with a 3.95 ERA for the Yankees, 
should step in to fill a couple of spots. With 
Carlton Fisk slated for the outfield this season, 
Chicago looked for a solid catcher in the off
season, a very rare commodity currently in the 
A.L. West. They found Ron Hassey, a .295 hit
ter with power for the Yankees in 1985, but 
after acquiring him traded him back a week 
later in some very bizarre off-season 
shenanigans. With Hassey, the White Sox 
sported a potent middle lineup, and looked to 
be in serious contention for the division. Oh 
well.
The middle infield is shallow but solid with 
Tolleson and phenom shortstop Ozzie Guillen, 
and the out field likewise, barring injuries, with 
Harold Baines, a budding star, Reid Nichols 
and Ron Kitde, who needs to rebound from a 
disappointing season.
sax
CHICAGO
WHITE SOX
Pitching will be the bane of the White Sox 
this season, even assuming Tom Terrific will 
continue to impress at 41. Starters Floyd Ban
nister and Gene Nelson were unimpressive, and 
aside from Bob James (32 saves), the bullpen 
was very sorry. Manager Tony LaRussa has 
been with the Chisox for eight years, which 
aside from Tom Lasordas ten-year run with the 
Dodgers, marks the longest current one-team 
stint in the major leagues! Figure that he will 
again keep the White Sox in contention, at least 
until the dog days are done.
Second Place - Kansas City Royals 
The Royals World Series victory last year 
becomes more remarkable the further back in 
retrospect. Based on their regular season per
formance, they may4 have been the fifth best 
team in the major leagues. What carried them? 
First of all, unexpectedly deep pitching from a 
corps of youngsters, including Cy Young win
ner Bret Saberhagen and Charlie Leibrandt, 
Danny Jackson, Bud Black and Mark Gubicz 
a, all in their twenties. George Brett had a 
typical .335 season, but he turns 33 soon. Many 
other mainstays are getting on. Dan Quisenberry 
is 33; he nearly cost the Royals the champion
ship with a personal late-season slide. Frank 
White is 35, and has lost a step at second base. 
Hal McRae, a DH in his twilight, hit only .259 
last year; remember him vying with George 
Brett for the AL Batting Championship? How 
long will outfielders Lonnie Smith and Jorge Or
ta hang on?
In short, the Royals exhibit a mixture of youth 
and age, but too much of the youth is concen
trated in the pitching staff. And except for 
perhaps Dwight Gooden, young pitchers 
generally prove less consistent on an annual 
basis than their cohorts at other positions. The 
minor league system currently offers more pit
chers, nevertheless. Manager Dick Howser will 
need to swing for a few trades to fill deficien
cies, especially at catcher. Barring any steals, 
however, the Royals will once again go only as 
far as their inexperienced pitching. Theyll make 
it close, but fall just short in 1986...
   
First Place - Oakland Athletics
Why in the American League West not? This 
w riter hates boring prophets, and hopes that by 
making such an oudandish selection, can kin
dle some interest in a division most people tend 
to ignore every year. The As certainly arent. 
They have all the ingredients in embryonic 
form, at least. And despite his reputation as a 
crybaby, Joaquin Andujar, the MLs only 
20-game winner each of the last two seasons, 
is an excellent pitcher. Recently added Moose 
Haas from Milwaukee will provide addtional 
veteran support. Hell have bullpen support in 
Jay Howell (9-8, 2.85) and Steve Ontiveros 
(1-3, 1.93). This is the key, though: Andujar 
has to teach the young staff some tricks of the 
trade. Hell have to speak Spanish to fireballing Jose Rijo, a fellow Dominican, and set an 
example for fell ow starters Chris Codrioli 
(14-14, 4.46), Bill Krueger (9-10, 4.52) and 
Tim Birtsas (10-6, 4.01).
Offensively and defensively, the A's stack up 
with the divisions best. The infield last season, 
no slack unit in the field.averaged .280. The 
roll call: Bruce Bochte at IB (.295), Donnie Hill 
at 2B (.285), defensive whiz Alfredo Griffin at 
SS (.270) and Carney (please stay healthy*) 
Lansford at 3B (.277).
Even more impressive is the outfield. Spor
ting News Minor League Player of the Year Jose 
Canesco figures to have the inside track in LF. 
Gold Glover Dwayne Murphy patrols center, 
and hard hitting Mike Davis (.287) holds down 
right. Reserves Dusty Baker and Steve Hender
son add depth to a strong unit. For Oakland to 
take the crown, all that is required is for Mur
phy to raise his batting average 40 points (he 
had a poor .233 season at the plate), for 
Lansford to stay healthy...and for Andujar to 
DOMINATE!

---------------------------------------------------

k
s.
New Hours!-
Wednesday through Saturday 
from 4pm until 2am 
Sunday from 6pm until 
midnight
F*OOsD
STICKS
/ ' MOZZARELLA STICKS 
BATTER-DIPPED VEGETABLES
__$1.50
WING-DINGS
hot"Nspicy "THRILLERS"
SMALL (6)
LARGE (12)
CHICKENNUGGETS
SMALL (6) 
LARGE (12)
.$1.95
.$3.75
.$1.45
.$2.75
Hoof
.$1.25
TOSTADA ?)Spicy ground beef, refried beans or a combination of both served on hot corn tortillas with shredded lettuce, tomatoes, onions, salsa, cheese, and sour cream.
SPICY BEEF 
REFRIED BEANS
.$2.50
.$2.25
All sandwiches served with choice of cheddar or swiss cheese, tomato, onion, sprouts, mayonaise & mustard.
ON FRENCH BREAD:TURKEY BREAST, BAKED HAM, CORNED BEEF, PASTRAMI
PITA POCKETS:TUNA OR CHICKEN SALAD
.$2.50
,.$2.25
SMALL PLATTER
;0
, eWEESEG
FRUIT .....$3.25 
.....$1.95
BREAD $-65 
__$.90
SJM
WITH MELTED CHEESE
COMBINATION GRANDE . ....$2.95
CHOCOLATE TRUFFLE 
KAHLUA 'N CREAM 
CHEESECAKE $15#
(nliilg)Cfi>=2 ICE CREAM
ASK. ABOUT TODAYS FLAVOURS
HOT APPLE CRESCENTS
WITH CINNAMON SUGAR .....$1.15 
A LA MODE .....$1.65

---------------------------------------------------

Special for today only
Lunch from 11:30 until 1:30
 BLENDER DRINKS: .....$1.45strawberry fling raspberry banana 
banana bavaria strawberry daquiri pina colada fudgesicle mound's bar
ROOT BEER FLOAT ....$1-1#
 SPRITZERS: .....$.65orange, apple, cranberry
SODAS: ......$.55classic coke, diet coke, sprite, root beer
 HOT DRINKS:Colombian coffee ......$*45
mocha coffee ......$.55
hot chocolate .....$.55 Come on down on our specialty nights.
Wednesday - Dynasty and 
Ladies Night
Thursday - NBC night from Cosby 
to Star Trek
Friday and Saturday 
Its live entertainment
Sunday -- Disney Night
teas: pekoe, cinnamon stick constant comment, orange, apple, mint ....$45

---------------------------------------------------

decisivewinover W&J,
-
10-7
Page 42The TartanApril 8, 1986
Cory Dworken prepare for last Saturdays match. The netters 
topped Duqunne 7-2.
Tartan Staffuiriter
The Tartan Tennis Team started out the 
season with an impressive win, last Tuesday 
over the Duquesne Dukes 7-2. The netmen also 
took on the Washington and Jefferson 
Presidents last Saturday, but were halted by 
rain halfway through the match.
The Tartans are coming off a PAC champion
ship season in a very different package. They 
all but one member of the team due
to various reasons, but have a pack of 
freshmen who are very eager to win. Tartan 
number one seed Keith Grumet started off the 
day against the Dukes with a 6-4, 6-2 win over 
his opponent. In the second seed match, 
freshman Jay Stevens lost 3-6, 5-7. It is nice 
to be able to have depth like this,' commented 
Tartan coach Peter Hawke, as Stevens came 
from the number seven spot and played quite 
impressively.
The only returning player from last years 
championship team, Rob Schlackman was 
defeated by a 6-7, 2-6 count. Darin Kaplan 
fired back for the Tartans, wining his match 6-2, 
6-1.
In the fifth seed game, Graham McAfee won 
for the Tartans by 6-2, 7-6, while Carnegie 
Mellons Dave Dillon also won 1-6, 6-1, 6-4.
In doubles action, the team of Grumet and 
Schlackman won 6-2, 6-2. Following that im
pressive win, McAfee and Dillon won the se
cond doubles match for the Tartans 4-6, 6-2, 
6-1. In the final match, the team of Darin 
Kaplan and Jay Stevens won 6-3, 6-4.
In the rained out matches against the 
Presidents, the Tartans were ahead 3-2 before 
the rains ended play. Tartan seed Keith Grumet 
lost his match 6-4, 7-6, while Kaplan also saw 
defeat. Tartans Dillon, McAfee, and 
Schlackman all had wins in straight sets. We 
played W + J very close. They only lost one 
player from last year, and we have a complete
ly rebuilt team, said Hawke. We have a 
very hungry team, which ability-wise is very 
comparable to last year's championship team. 
AD they lack is the experience. That will develop 
with time, concluded Hawke.
photo by Daniel Dotvhan
Rob Schlackman fell to his Duke opponent, 6-7, 2-6.
Lacrosse posts
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
In two intense physical games the Carnegie 
Mellon Lacrosse Club evened its record at 3-3 
theis weekend. On Friday, the team fell to 
Washington and Jefferson College by a score 
of 10-7, but triumphed 15-7 over Bethany 
College
Co-Captain Roy Teresky paced the Tartans 
over Bethany with 9 goals and 1 assist. Bethany 
nabbed the opening score, but CMU erupted 
for seven straight goals to put the game safely 
in hand. Teresky noted the intensity of the team 
was a lot higher than it was against W&J on 
Friday.
One key element in the success of the Tar
tan was the success of the power play. Roy 
Teresky had all of the CMUs four man-up 
goals, commenting, On the man-up, the W&J 
zone defense broke down.
Sophomore John Rentzepis collected a pair 
of goals in the game, while John Rickert and 
Scott Johnson each had a goal and 2 assists. 
Billy Heiser, playing in his second season, eollected a pair of assists._____________________
The Week in Sports
Mens Track and Field
SaturdayPAC Relays at Bethany1:00 p.m.
Mens Tennis 
WednesdayBethany3:00 p.m. 
Saturdayat Hiram1:00 p.m. 
Womens Track and Field
Saturdayat Hiram1:00 p.m.
Golf
Wednesdayat Wheeling1:00 p.m.
1986 PIRATE SCHEDULE
Tennis team clinches opening bout versus Dukes
Bv PERRY PIERCE

---------------------------------------------------

April 8, 1986The TartanPage 43
emale runners have 4good opening meet9 at IUP
By JILL DORSON
Tartan Sports Editor
Opening its season on a positive note, the 
Womens Varsity Track Team traveled to In
diana University of Pennsylvania last Saturday 
to compete in an Invitational meet. Braving both 
the rain and the heat, the women had a suc
cessful meet. It was a good opening meet, 
aid Head Coach Gerri Seidl. We saw what 
we can do, and well be looking to improve. 
Though the competition was stiff and nonConference, the women posted many outstan
ding scores. First-time thrower Denise Viscon
ti bested all her teammates with a javelin throw
the tape at 11:46, some 12 seconds faster than 
last seasons PAC standard.
Freshman Francesca Crannell fell just two 
seconds behind veteran Wismer in the 800 
meter race. Crannell, in her first collegiate ap
pearance, had a time of 2:45, while Wismer 
posted a 2:42. Again, Seidl is looking for the 
two to bring down their times over the season.
Sprinting proved a high point of the meet, as 
Eleanor Reid topped her personal best in the
100 meter dash, coming across the line at 
13:47, .23 seconds better than last years Con
ference standard of 13.7, which Reid herself 
set.
meter hurdles at 18.2 seconds. Relayer 
Kaperick ran the hurdles as well, breaking the 
tape at 19.8a personal best.
Seidl stressed that the day provided some 
good experience and praised her team for 
hanging in there and not quitting. She is op
timistic and positive as she urges her team to 
strive for improvement.
Saturday, the tracksters will take on the defen
ding Conference champions from Hiram in a 
meet that should tell us more clearly what to 
shoot for.
Womens hoop, swim squads 
awarded All-Conference bids
of 74 and 1/z yards, lnple jumper Leslie 
Williams had a great jump, as she opened 
the season with a respectable leap of 29 feet,
11 and 3/4 inches, just over two feet short of 
last years top PAC jump.
The distance events proved that Tartan run
ners should be competitive over the season, 
as both Margaret Wismer and Christina DeRaad 
posted fine 5000 meter times of 21:39 and 
22:24, respectively. DeRaad was in her first 
ever track meet, and coach Seidl is confident 
that she should place over the season.
Wismer notched her personal best in the 
3000 meter run on IUPs track, as she 1 1
Reid later teamed up with Mary Kaperick, 
Maria Kozo, and Kim Morrison to comprise 
Carnegie Mellons mile relay squad. The run
ners posted a time of 55.9 total, and are look
ing to improve this time and break the record 
they set last year.
Morrison and Kozo again found themselves 
running side-by-side in the 200 meter sprint, 
along with teammate Lisa Ralston. Though all 
three tracksters were over last seasons PAC 
record, they are close enough to work down 
to both competitive and record-breaking times. 
Jumper Leslie Williams found herself on the 
track later in the meet, as she tackled the 100
By JILL DORSON
Tartan Sports Editor
Members of both Carnegie Mellons Womens 
Basketball and Swim Teams did their school 
proud last month, as freshmen Lisa Lightner, 
Aimee Reber, and Beth Virgin were named to 
All-Conference basketball squads and the 
natators took second place in the final Con
ference standings.
Lightner, a freshman forward, earned a place 
on the All-PAC Second Team. The freshman 
led her team in points and assists as she netted 
a total of 288 tallies over the season, while 
assisting 94 times. Lightner shot 73 percent 
from the foul line and had 14.4 points per 
game. As highscorer, She dropped in 30 points 
for a season, game and team high, while she 
had 15 rebounds and 10 assists in her best 
games.
Both Reber and Virgin were awarded 
Honorable All-Conference Mentions. Reber led
the team in rebounds with a season total of 203. 
Overall, she garnered 236 points, tallying 11.8 
per game, on average. The freshman center shot 
67 percent from the fine and her best games
left her with 23 tallies and 19 rebounds.
Virgin proved one of the best all-around 
players in the league, in her first year of col
lege competition. Virgin averaged 10.5 points 
per game with a season total of 209. Defensive
ly, she ripped down 194 caroms, with her 
season best being 19 in one outing.
At the close of the 1985-86 swimming 
season, the Tartan natators found themselves 
second only to Conference rival John Carroll. 
Individually, freshman Francesca Crannell and 
senior captain Patty Illig took home top honors 
in the 50 free and 1650 free, respectively.
Relay teams proved strong for the women this 
year, as both the 400 and 800 free relay as 
well as the 400 IM relay squads posted the top 
time in the Conference.
Tracksters premier late 
due to unexpected weather
photo by Jack L. Poller
Members of the lacrosse prepare for weekend contests. The Tartans split, beating 
W&J, but falling to Bethany.
photo by Jack L. Po
Szak work* on his form. Unfortunately, <he tracksters meet was cancelled.
by STEW LEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter
The Mens Track season will be starting a 
week late this year. Saturday, the Tartans had 
prepared to attempt to extend their dual meet 
victory streak to 49 against the Blue Streaks of 
John Carroll, only to fall prey to the rain.
The Tartans will now get ready for this Satur
days PAC Relays at Bethany. The team that 
travels there this weekend is much different 
from the one that won its eighth consecutive 
PAC relay title this year.
Of the 159 points scored at the PAC Cham
pionships last year, 116 were lost to either 
graduation of pre-season injuries. The injuries 
are particularly troublesome. Lost all ready are 
Mike Killen, last years PAC Champion in the 
400 intermediate hrudles and Erik Lee who 
finished second in the 5000 meter run. Onters
sidelined at the moment are: Norbert Coudriet, 
Chris Chem, Mark Aufdemberge, and Mike 
Boyle.
The healthy returnees include one other PAC 
Champion, Damien McKnight in the 110 high 
hurdles, as well as second place finisher in the 
400 intermediate hurdles, Gary Marehionna. 
The other veterans are; David Silverman, Jeff 
Kochanowski. Jeff Luster, Mark Sulecki, Keith 
Stopen, and Phil Gerard.
There are also a couple of freshman to watch 
in their first appearances at Carnegie Mellon in
cluding distance runner Pat Noll, jumpers Brian 
MacDonald and Steve Antonson, and hurdler 
Bill Cocoran.
Looking at the future. Head Coach Gary 
Meckley had this to say about this team's 
chances, We could finish anywhere between 
first and third; in other years we didn't consider 
third place.

---------------------------------------------------

pitched a masterful game.now we
Tartan Sports
Batters host two twin-bills; close week at 1-3
Dukes sweep doubleheader. . .
By PERRY PIERCE
Tartan StaffuriUr
The Baseball Tartans opened up their 1986 
season last week with double headers against 
the Duquesne Dukes and Waynesburg College. 
Carnegie Mellon dropped both to the Dukes, 
12-1 and 10-4, but rebouned against 
Waynesburg, winning the first game 11-9, and 
losing the nightcap 12-9.
Duquesne was able to score early in the first 
game where they opened up a 5-0 lead after 
the first inning. In the second inning, Duquesne 
added on seven more, and took a commanding
brought home the only Tartan run.
In the nightcap, Duquesne jumped out to a 
quick lead again, as two doubles gave them a 
1-0 lead. The Dukes added two more in the se
cond, but found themselves.struggling quickly, 
as the Tartans pushed across three runs in their 
half of the third to knot the score at three.
Pat Carey began the Tartan scoring effort by 
leading off with a single to right. Following a 
walk to Rick Fetterman, Bruce Nibblelink roped 
a single to left which brought in both Carey and 
Fetterman. Following a Steve Orlando walk, 
John Simon helped the Tartan attack by power12-0 lead. Tartan hurler Mike Hensel went a 
total of five innings in the first game, and was 
completely settled down after some key defen
sive mistakes in the early going.
The Tartans managed their only run of the 
game in the sixth inning, as Brian Warshovsky 
led off with a walk. Following a walk to Steve 
Orlando, Bill Yankovich singled to load the 
bases with nobody out. The next batter, Leo 
Cadden, hit a grounder right to the third 
baseman who pegged out Warshovsky at the 
plate. The Tartans then quickly scored as a 
weak grounder to third by John Waugamann
photo by Jack L. Poller
ing a single into left that scored Nibblelink.
Carnegie Mellon tallied again in the fourth, 
and took their first lead of the day. Pat Carey
got on via a walk, and was brought around on 
a center field single by John Waugamann. The 
Tartan upsurge was quickly quelled by an over
powering Duke offense, as they forced Tartan 
fielding mistakes. The errors were followed by
key base hits which put runners constantly in 
scoring position. This put the Tartans out of the 
game, helping the Dukes to win both ends of 
the twin-bill.
photo by Jack L. Poller
Waynesburg splits. . .
Against Waynesburg, the Tartans showed 
new life, as they kept the fielding and mental 
mistakes to a minimum. In the opening game, 
Waynesburg jumped out early on Tartan hurler 
Dan Bly, scoring two runs in the opening frame. 
The Tartans answered back with a run, 
manufactured with the help of a single by Steve 
Orlando and a right field single by John 
Waugamann. There was no scoring until the 
fourth, when Waynesburg scored a run to take 
a 3-1 lead. This was the key inning for the Tar
tans at the plate, as Carnegie Mellon answered 
back with seven runs. Singles by Carey, Fet
terman, Daryl Marvin, Nibblelink, Dom Colangelo, and Orlando were padded with 
Waynesburg errors to produce an 11 batter, 
seven run spurt.
The Tartans tallied again in the fifth, scoring 
two runs on the benefit of walks and a big 
Waynesburg error. In the sixth the Tartans 
scored again, answering back on a key 
Waynesburg inning where they scored five 
times. Tartan reliever John Spanos went 2 2/3 
innings in relief and picked up the first win of 
the year for the Tartans.
After the win in the first game of the double 
header, Carnegie Mellon was confident that it 
could beat Waynesburg again. The game was 
not decided until the last two innings, as Tar
tan pitcher Rich Hall
Waynesburg jumped out to an early lead, but 
the Tartans evened the score after two at 2-2 
on a hit by Nibblelink. Waynesburg had a 
chance to blow the game open in the third, but 
a Tartan double play took Waynesburg out of 
a serious scoring threat. The Tartans did not 
tally again until the fourth, Perry Pierces 
sacrifice fly was followed by a John Spanos 
triple.
The Tartans led at this point 4-3, but 
Waynesburg answered back in the fifth, scor
ing three times. Carnegie Mellon retaliated with 
two runs in return, with singles by Leo Cadden, 
Brian Warshovsky, Dom Colangelo, and Perry 
Pierce. Waynesburg went to work again in the 
sixth and seventh, as they put the game out of 
reach with a total of six runs. The Tartans 
answered back with only three in their half of 
the seventh,
Tartan manager Bill Allen had many obser
vations about his team V performance in the$ 
first week of games. Allen stated that the team 
played well, but some key mental errors in the 
field still need lots of attention. Carnegie 
Mellon was a little slow in getting started at the 
plate, as they allowed both teams to jump out 
to early leads. We had too much pressure on 
our pitching staff, as we didnt have run sup
port. Our fielding is coming along well, right _______
photo by Jack L. e
