Taming of the Shrew 
Begins Tomorrow Night 
8:30Continues Until 
Tuesday, May 31
AlumniDane
ThistleHall
May 28
No Charge9-12
VOL. XXVI, No. 31.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MAY 24, 1932.
Fourteen Honoraries 
Extend Bids To One 
Hundred and Twenty
Qualification Day Exer
cises Draws Large 
Group to Theater
Awards Presented
Dr. Baker Presents Theta 
Tau Award to Sidney 
Krasik
See Last Page for the Complete 
List of Honorary Calls.
Fourteen honoraries called one 
hundred and twenty students 
the qualification day exercises held 
last Saturday afternoon in the 
Outdoor Theater. The program, 
of which Harvey A. Collins had 
complete charge, opened promptly 
at 2 oclock with a selection play
ed by the Kiltie Band.Harold Brennan, president of 
the Student Council this year, then 
introduced Josef L. Lentz, presidenit-elect of Council and followed 
this by allowing John R. Knopf. 
Loi's E. McGregor, Edward H.
I Kejller and James H. Leonard, the
i he^ds of the various College Sen
ates, to present the class presi
dents and Senate officers for next 
i'car.' Mary McKeon, Carnegies 1932 
Campus Queen, took the stage at 
. this point and handed out awards 
to the following deserving organi
sations and individuals; cups were 
presented to: Kappa Sigma for 
taking first place in the Inter-fraternity Relay, Beta Sigma Rho for
* . \the best Hey-Day float; Beta Theta 
fPi for winning the Inter-fraternity
I ^Sweepstakes, Jane Welty and Rus 
i^lit(rell Pauin for outstanding work on 
? i'U'e rifle teams, Englcbrecht TIall 
fo'r first place in the inter-mural 
competition in basketball, Theta 
Xil for the best designed pushmo 
bilk Kappa Sigma forwinning the 
Inter-fraternity track meet, Delta 
Taii Delta for taking first place 
in ftlie Inter-Mural swimming meet, 
and I Kappa Sigma for first place in 
the) Inter-fraternity Sing.
Miss McKeon presented awards 
to /the Womens Rifle Team and 
to /Melton Hall for winning the 
Roj^r" Skating Competition. vsJ^irteoctor Baker then presented the' 
Th(j:ta Tau award to Sidney Krasik. 
Thns award will be given each year 
to f the outstanding student engi
neer of that year.
Dean Keeble of the College of 
F: ne Arts, presented the Alpha 
R ho Chi medal to Daniel Defenbc >cher.
following .this the honoraries 
ade their calls.
The program closed with the 
anting of trees by Mortar Board, 
nior honorary for women, and 
D ruids, sophomore honorary for 
eh.
1tippet Art Staff And
Those Interested To Meet
otl
toe
to
Ed 
1 ! 
Fi.
^ he Puppet art : staff and all 
\ers interested* in drawing carons for the Puppet are requested 
* meet with Edna Pearson, Art 
itor, on Thursday, May 26, at 
a-clock in Room 106, College of 
 le Arts.n-i______________________________
1First Tartan Bulletins 
Issued During Carnival
Announcing the results of the 
several contests during the 
Spring Carnival, . the Tartan 
Bulletins made their initial ap
pearance lastFriday and Satur
day. This new function of the 
Carnegie Tartan, introduced by 
the incoming staff, will be con
tinued throughout the remainder 
of this semester and if need
warrants, also next fall.
The Tartan Bulletins, will not 
appear regularly, but only when 
news of sufficient importance 
ouid of campus-wide interest
.arises. A Tartan Bulletin will 
,o|c be placed on each bulletin
/ \ board throughout the Institute, 
j. * There has been a decided
vccd on the Carnegie campus 
.or such a means of rapidly 
Spreading  important news for 
;ome time. It is planned in the 
jfuture to issue these bulletins
within a few minutes of the 
occurence of an important 
L'vcnt such as: results of class 
flections; progress of alumni 
/Irivc; important administration 
moves? deaths of prominent 
people; results of athletic con
tests, and other major news 
events.
New Thistles May Be 
Obtained at Y Office
A limited number of copies of 
the Thistle, annual publication of 
Carnegie, are now available in 
the Y office for $4.50 a piece. 
Those who purchased the tickets 
for Thistle can sccurc their copies 
now. The Thistle this year has 
many novel features such as fulltone pictures . and photographs of 
the campus taken at odd angles! 
These photographs are of the 
^ style which is so popular among 
the modernistic artist. It is 
recommended that anyone who 
wishes to sccurc a copy of this 
1932 Thistle, which is by far the 
best one ever printed, do so at 
oncfc before all of the copies are 
sold.
SURVEYING CAMP 
BEGINS JUNE 13
Two Departments To Offer 
Summer Course at 
Davis, W. Va.
The Department of Civil Engineering 
is offering two summer courses in 
surveying this year. The first 
course, which begins on June 13, 
is offered to students in the Build
ing Construction and Civil Engin
eering departments. It will be 
given at Davis, W. Va., a small 
town in the mountains, about 25 
miles south of Oakland, Md. Stu
dents taking the Builcjing course 
will remain at Davis for three 
weeks. The course for Civil En
gineers will last for six weeks.
The elevation of Davis is 3,100 
feet which is several hundred feet 
higher than any point in Pennsyl
vania on either the Lincoln or the 
William Penn Highways. Near 
the town are the falls of the Black 
Water River, which attract many 
visitors' every year. The students 
will stay at a hotel in the town, 
and various surveying operations 
(Continued on Page Three)
JJRAMATS TO GIVE 
FOUR MATINEES
Taming of the Shrew" to 
Run Week of 
May 25X ________
The Drama Department is sched
uling a number of matinee per
formances in connection with the 
two productions of Shakespeares 
Play, The Taming of the Shrew. 
The matinee on Friday, May 27, 
will be presented in modern dress 
and comes in the middle of the 
run of evening performances to be 
given Wednesday, May 25, to T-uesday, May 31, inclusive of Memorial 
Day. Matinees done in classical 
will be presented on Saturday, 
Monday and Tuesday, May 28, 30,' and 31.
The ^ cast for the productions 
done in the modern manner includes:
Franklin Heller, Snmuel Messer.................
......-.......Baptists, a gentleman of PadueEdward Kelly ...................................<.......
................Vincentio, a merchant of PisaTYiIIiam Beal, John Dawson........................
_ ..........................Lucentio, son to VincentioDonn Bo:.hofT, Thomas Gorman...................
.....-.......Pfctruchio, a gentleman of VeronaHerman Livcright ..............................................
_ :...............................Gremio. suitor to BiancaRobert Gill, McClellan Shirfn........................
.........................Hortonsio, suitor to BiancaEmauuel Breakstone. William Roos............
.....................Tranio. servant to LucentioWilliam Behrse, Walter Derdeyn.................
  Biondello, servant to LucentioBarry Mulligan, George McCalmon............
....................Grumio, servant to PetruchioLewis Goldsmith...................................A PedantMarian Stanley, Louise Miller............Curtiss(Continued on Page Three)
Rates For Womens 
Dormitories Reduced
The Board of Trustees has an
nounced a reduction of $40 in the 
board and room rates for women 
for next year. The new rates for 
rooms and board will be: single 
rooms, $440; double rooms and 
triple rooms 1, 2, 3, 4 in Forbes 
Hall, 3 and 6 in Mellon, 15 in 
Birch, and 2 in Laurel, $395;- other 
triple rooms, $375.
Miss Mary Green, Dean of 
Women, wishes to express her ap
preciation to the: Board of Trus
tees and to -President Baker for 
their kind co-operation in making 
the reduction and hopes - that the 
reduction will offset partly theancr.easing cost of a womans career 
at Carnegie.
BETAS WIN RACE 
IN RECORD TIME
Phi Psi's Lead But Are Dis
qualified; Theta Xi Wins 
Design Cup
Sweeping around the course in 
the record-breaking time of 2:54.8, 
the trim three-wheel machine of 
the Beta Theta Pi fraternity was; 
awarded first place in the finals of 
the Carnegie Sweepstakes Satur-, 
day morning after the entry of 
the Phi Kappa Psi fraternity, 
which had finished a shade ahead, 
was disqualified bdeause it crossed 
the finish line without a pusher.
The Delta Tau Delta entry fol
lowed the Beta Theta Pi car across 
the line to capture second place. 
The Alpha Tau Omega car placed 
third.
In winning the race, the Beta 
car broke the course record of 
2:57.5 set by them two years ago.
Repeating their performance of 
last year, the Theta Xis captured 
the Defiign Cup in. the competition 
Friday morning. Beta Theta Pi 
rcccivcd the second award.
The following arc the results of 
the Sweepstakes, trial heats which 
were run Friday morning. The 
cars finishing first' and second in 
each heat were eligible for the 
finals. First Heat: Beta Theta
Pi, first; Phi Kappa Psi, second, 
and Sigma Nu, third. The winning 
time was 3:05.
Second Heat: Kappa Sigma,
first; Delta Tau Delta, second; 
Delta Upsilon, third. Winning 
time, 3:03.
Third Heat: Theta Xi, first;
Alpha Tau Omega, second; Alpha 
Sigma Phi, third. Winning time, 3:08.
The Beta Sigma Rho fraternity 
was also awarded the prize for the 
(Continued on Page Three)
Officers For Mens 
Glee Club Selected
At the annual banquet of the 
Mens Glee Club, in the Venetian 
Room of Webster Hall, Wednes
day evening, May 11, officers were 
elected for the coming year. The 
results are as follows: Manager, 
Wilfred Ufflcman; assistant man
agers, William Wicgman and John 
Harvey; student director, Anthony 
Noce. According to the traditional 
custom of recognizing the man 
rendering the most service to the 
Glee Club, a silver loving cup was 
awarded to James A. Bray, a stu
dent in. the College of. Engineering.
Scabbard And Blade Calls
Carnegie Y Secretary
Mr. Rollin V. Davis, executive 
secretary of the Student Council 
and the Y. M. C. A., was called 
to Scabbard and Blade, National 
Military Honorary, on Qualifica
tion Day, last Saturdajr during 
Spring Carnival. Mr. Davis saw 
active service in the World war, 
participating in engagements at 
Chateau-Thierry, Belleau Woods 
and the Argonne district. He is 
the recipient of the Croix-deGuerre and' the Verdun Medal. At 
present he is a member of the Re
serve Officers Corps.
Unmanageable Doors On Campus Bring
Envy, Wrath, Chivalry In Students
By MARY McCULLOUGH
Having always been very meek, 
peaceful and entirely harmless, we 
never venture our supposed opin
ions on the depression, the weather, 
Manchuria, or kidnappings. Never
theless, when things come to such 
a state that' our response in an 
association test in psychology is 
so far from normal that even the 
instructor is astonished, we feel 
that we have a right to soliloquize 
on doorsdoprs . being the word 
that invoked the response.
The doors on our campus, which 
must have been responsiblefor the 
abnormality, are notable, or as we 
sometimes maliciously think, noto
rious. First of all is the door to
Administration Hall. It holds a 
unique place as the most resistent 
compound.of glass and metal ever 
set up. Every time that we have 
to enter by thatdoor, we begin to 
brace ourselves for the ordeal yards 
away. Feeling just like a Volga 
boatman or part of . a tug of war 
crew, we charge upon it with all 
our strength. There is, however, 
one redeeming feature about that 
doorit brings out all the latent 
chivalry in the men of the school. 
Such a phenomena , is decidedly 
satisfying to our sense of roman
ticism and to our little white arms. 
We remember, with chagrin one 
lad who didnt go chivalrous. Just 
as we were about to lunge up 
(Continued on Page Three)
BLAISDELL TO 
HEAD FACULTY 
ORGANIZATION
Named Chairman of Gen
eral Faculty in Recent 
Election
WILL SERVE FOR YEAR
Educational Senate and 
Executive Committee 
Posts Filled
Professor Allen H. Blaisdcllj As
sociate Professor, Department of 
Mechanical Engineering, was elect
ed chairman of the General Facul
ty of Carnegie at the recentelec
tion of officers to serve for the 
year 1932-33.
Other officers chosen at , the 
same time were: Professor W. A. 
Readib, vice chairman; Professor
C. W. Prine, treasurer; Professor 
Edith M. Winchester, Secretary; 
Professor E. M. Ashe, athletic 
council representative, and Pro
fessor R. B. Lcighou, representa
tive on Exectitive Board.
The object of this organization 
is to give the faculty of Carnegie 
in opportunity to discuss subjects 
bearing on the work or welfare 
of the faculty-or of the school. It 
is also a medium for the formal 
expression of the desires and opin
ions of the1 faculty.
The chairman, vice chairman, 
secretary and treasurer are elected 
by the vote  of the faculty and 
serve a term of one year. Offi
cers recently elected will assume 
office next September.
Members of the faculty elected 
to serve on the Educational Sen
ate for a term of two years in
clude: Professor Elmer Kenyon, 
Professor Ednali N. Cranna, Pro
fessor B. C. Dennison, Professor
C. C. Leeds, Professor J. D. Mac
millan, i Professor Katherine E. 
Schultz; whose term' expires" j"unc,' 
1933, and Professor Anna P. Du
rand, term expiring June, 1934.
Elected to the Executive Com
mittee at the same time for a 
term of three yearswere:
Professor J. C. Mordicad, Pro
fessor Lawrence. H. Schultz, Pro
fessor D. C. Saylor, Professor C. 
M. Humphreys, Professor L, T.
(Continued on Page Three)
CARNEGIE STAFF 
AIDS CAMPAIGN
Each Employee Requested to 
Contribute One Days 
Wage
The Carnegie committee of the 
Family-Hclp-Family Campaign, ap
pointed by the College Administra
tion, has unanimouslj' agreed that 
each employee of the college be 
requested to contribute an amount 
equal to a days wages. This ac
tion is 1 due to the committees 
realization that human lives depend 
on the success of the campaign.
So far the Family-Hclp-Family 
Workers, in an extensive three 
weeks campaign in the business 
districts of Pittsburgh, has raised 
only $500,000, enough to care for 
5,000 families for three months. 
The funds of the Emergency As
sociation, raised in the joint cam
paign with the Welfare Fund last 
fall, and used to care for not only 
these 5,000 but 23,000 additional 
families, are now exhausted. The 
only relief for these families is 
that to be provided by the FamilyHelp-Family Campaign which 
should be aided by every working 
man and woman.
Newman Club Will 
Hold Spring Dance
Buzz Kountz and his orchestra 
have, been selected to play at the 
Newman Clubs annual spring 
dance, which will be held on Fri
day, May 27, in the Knights of 
Columbus ball room from 9 to 1 
oclock. This orchestra is quite 
popular with Carnegie students, 
having played here for a number 
of football and basketball dances 
last winter.
Alfred Eichenlaub, chairman of 
the committee for the dance, an
nounces that it will be an informal 
caharct dance as in former years. 
Other members of the committee 
arc Mary Louise Schaub, Mary 
Margaret Hurley, Joseph Mackil, 
Regis Connelly, Paul Barlow, 
Eleanor Duffy, Roy Getty, and 
Tom Murphy.
Tickets are $2 and may be had 
from cither Alfred Eichenlaub or 
Paul Barlow, both of whom arc 
Carnegie students.
Interfraternity Council 
Elects Stahl President
At the last regular Interfraternity Council meeting held Satur
day morning, May 14, in the Y 
Club Room, James E. Stahl, a 
member of the Phi Kappa frater
nity, was elected to the presidency 
of next years council. Ira F. 
Kuhn, Delta Tau Delta, was elected 
vice president; John W. Ladd, Pi 
Kappa Alpha, secretary; and Wil
liam H. Hauser, Alpha Tau Omega, 
treasurer.
A meeting of next years council 
will be held in the Y Club Room 
Saturday morning at 10 oclock. 
It \s very important that all frater
nities send representatives to this 
meeting.
SENIORS INVITED 
TO ALUMNI DANCE
Annual Dance to be Held 
in Thistle Hall 
Saturday
The Alumni Dance, which is being 
given by the Engineering Alumni 
Association of the Carnegie Alumni 
Federation, will be held in Thistle 
Hall Saturda}r evening from 9 to 
12. Will Ryshanck and his band who 
will be playing on the campus for 
the last time this year will furnish 
the music. Invitations have been sent 
to all members of the graduating 
class, and they ma}r secure their 
tickets at the Alumni Office any time 
this week free of charge. This dance, 
to which the seniors arc invited to 
bring a guest also, is given each 
year at this time by one of the four 
divisions of the Alumni Federation.
At the present time the Margaret 
Morrison seniors are leading in the 
campaign for membership which ends 
on June 14. Alumni duc^ to seniors, 
if paid before Commencement Day, 
are $2.00. These dues, which entitle 
the member to the Tartan and the 
Carnegie Alumnus for one year, arc 
payable either to the senior solicitors 
or at-the Alumni Qffice. Seniors arc 
equested to  pay bhci-r dues - as soisn, 
as possible.
To the question of "Why join 
the Alumni Association now?" which 
is being asked by many of the seniors 
still enjoying campus life, Director 
William E. Mott replies: "After four 
years of undergraduate life on the 
campus it is hard to realize that a 
few months ina}' mean such a com
plete break with Alma Mater as 
occurs so often in the life of the 
recent graduate. It seems axiomatic 
that a relationship which has been so 
natural will continue without any 
special effort on ones own part.
"Experience has demonstrated that 
this is not the case and it is only 
by a positive effort on the part of 
the majority of the graduates that 
they wiil maintain even a moderate 
amount of.interest in their college.
"In order to make possible the 
maintenance of an effective organ
ization it is the duty of allnot just 
a fewbut of every graduateto 
bccomc a member of the Alumni 
Federation.
Commencement Ball 
Date Set For June 13
The Commencement Ball of the 
Class of 1932 will be held on Monda}, June 13, in Thistle Hail. Jerry 
McGcorges Orchestra, the popular 
campus musical organization will play 
for this final social event of the 
year.
Edward H. Keller is chairman of 
the Commencement Ball committee, 
and is arranging a number of novel 
entertainments for the outgoing seniors 
at the Ball.
The Baccalaureate Services are 
scheduled for Sunday, June 12, with 
the Commencement Exercises on Tues
day, June 14. The details of these ex
ercises have notbeen completed as 
yet and. will be announced in next 
weeks Tartan.
D. K. Ritchey Wins 
Scholarship Award
Dahlen K. Ritchey, graduating 
senior in Architecture, has been 
awarded a scholarship to the 
School of Architecture at Harvard 
University for the year 1932-33, 
where lie will study for his mas
ters degree. Mr. Ritchey has been 
a student assistant for the past 
year and is a member of the 
Kappa Sigma, social fraternity; the 
Scarab, professional fraternity, and 
Tau Sigma Delta, national hon
orary architectural fraternity. He 
has been very active in the social 
field as an undergraduate and as 
a member of the Dragon, senior 
honorary.
Vito Battista, a sub-senior in 
Architecture, is planning to attend 
the Summer School at Fontaine
bleau where he will take the three 
months summer course.
New Tartan Heads Named 
At Annual Staff Banquet
New Tartan Heads For Next Year
JOHN W. LADD 33
Department of Printing Editor -inChief
JULIUS HALPERN 33
Department of Physics Business Manager
SUMMER SESSION 
STARTS JUNE 21
Registrar Has Applications 
For Admission to 
Courses
Classes for the first summer 
school courses this year will begin 
on Tuesday, June 21. Registration 
and payment of fees for all eight 
weeks coilrses will take place on 
Monday, June 20, and classes will 
start the next day. Registration 
for thj;^ six weeks courses will be 
held Friday, July 1, and classes 
_wi.ll .begin on Tuesday, July, 5. 
All applications for admission to 
the 'summer courses must be made 
on a special blank which will he 
furnished by the registrar.
The six weeks courses arc main
ly courses for upperclassmen. For 
juniors and seniors the faculty of 
the College of Industries will pre
sent: Vocational Guidance and Ed
ucation Cylinder Prcsswork, .Gen
eral Shop Organization, Practice 
Teaching, Advanced Typography, 
and several Shop courses. For sophoomorcs, Machine Shop Practice, 
several courses in Woodworking, 
Hand Composition, Platen Presswork, and Sketching and Design 
will be given, while freshman may 
take Machine Shop, Welding Shop, 
and Hand Composition. Other six 
weeks, courses that will be given 
arc Introductory Psychology, Edu
cational Measurements, Introduc
tory to Teaching, and Electrical Con
struction.
In the College of Engineering 
the following eight weeks courses 
will be given: Mechanical, General 
Physics, and General Chemistry. 
The Division of General Studies 
will present Commercial Law, Gen
eral Economics, Analytical Geom
etry and  Calculus, and for fresh
men, Drawing and Discriptive Ge
ometry, English, Industrial  Plistory,' Algebra, Trigonometry and 
Analytical Geometry. There arc 
also some courses for architectural 
students in Water Color, Render
ing, Architectural Design and 
Freshman Trigonometry.
The datei for the special courses 
in Surveying arc: E-204, June 13 
to July 23; E-210, June 13 to July 
2; ancl E-206, September 6 to 19. 
Course E-208, the two weeks 
course in surveying, will be held 
twice this summer on the campus. 
The first period will extend from 
June 13 to June 25; the second 
from September 6 to September 
19.
In addition to the above men
tioned courses, C-5, Algebra and 
Calculus, will be held from June 
20 to July 29.
WOMENS GUILD 
ELECTSJ1FFICERS
Guild is Making Tentative 
Membership Plans For 
Fall
The Womens Guild, Carnegies
philanthropic organization, elected 
the following officers in its recent 
reorganization: Dorothy Shults,
president; Dorothy Autcn, vice 
president; Jean Ritzcl, secretary;
Margaret Barr, treasurer; Henri
etta Steinberg, senior representa
tive; Virginia Arts, junior repreiciitativp; Virginia Cooper, sop.hejVtiorc representative; and Rtitli 
Meade and Rosemarie Grcntzcr, 
College of Fine Arts representa
tives.
Miss Shults was the former sccretary-trcasurcr of the Guild, as 
well as a former. Guild Board 
member. Her other activities in
clude vice president of the Mar
garet Morrison Senate, former sec
retary of.the same group, assistant 
secretary of Student Council, for
mer member of W. A. A. Board, 
and formerCwcn. Miss Au'.cn is 
a member of the Beta Tail Lambda 
social sorority. Miss Ritzcl is 
president of the M. M. C. C. sopho
more class, a member of the W. 
A. A. Board, a member of Cwcns, 
and a Tartan reporter. Miss Barr 
is social chairman of the freshman 
class in Margaret Morrison.
The Guild is now making ten
tative plans for a membership drive 
to be held the first week of school 
in the fall. This drive will be 
preceded by a banquet similar to 
the one held by the Y. W. C. A. 
for freshmen. Monthly supper 
meetings will follow this initial 
banquet in an effort to maintain 
interest in the Guild activities.
The Guild expects to establish 
(Continued on Page Three)
Cwens To Initiate 
Pledges On June 4
The formal initiation of the new 
Cwcns will be held Saturday, June
4, in the Faculty Dining Room at 
the Carnegie Inn. The initiation 
ceremonies will be concluded with 
a formal dinner. Rosemary Sax
ton is the general chairman of the 
affair and the heads of the various 
committees are Alice Henzi, invita
tions; Gene Rose, ritual; Evelyn 
Gamble, program; and Anna Jean 
Roberts, menu and tables.
Mary Husband was recently ap
pointed chairman of the rough 
initiation which will take place 
Friday afternoon, May 27, in Mar
garet Morrison Recreation Hall.
Silhouettes Drawn On Walls of Smoking
Room By Inspired Carnegie Decorators
By ROSEMARY SAXTON
The innovation of the smoking 
room in the Women's dormitories 
has brought to light a new art 'in 
the line of interior decoration. 
Shiny black silhouettes sharply 
outlined against the white plaster 
walls adorn the smoking room of 
Forbes Hall. Not only arc these 
silhouettes cleverly constructed, but 
each of them is an accurate pro
file of a resident of the dormitory.
It all began one evening during 
the course of an after-dinner cig
arette when two energetic P. &
D.s conceived the idea of prac
ticing portraiture 011 . the inviting 
blankness of the plastered walls. 
With the aid of a dramat and by
fair means or foul, scene paint was 
secured from the Drama Depart
ment, Within a few hours the 
walls were lined with the likeness 
of each head in the room, as the 
models were eager and willing to 
pose, although it meant holding a 
very motionless head close to the 
wall with a lamp to cast the shade 
which soon became permanent, 
There arc 23 of these gleaming 
black profiles, each with its own 
characteristic up-turned nose, tan
gled lock of hair, or high smooth 
forehead. On the far wall back 
in the shadows, there is plenty of 
room for new faces, so in all 
probability Forbes Hall will some
day have a permanent collection 
of all its illustrious beauties.
John W. Ladd Will Be 
Editor; Julius Halpern 
Made Business Mgr.
Five Guests Talk
Seven Associate Editors 
and Twelve Junior Edi
tors Are Chosen
At the annual Tartan banquet held 
last Tuesday evening in the Faculty 
Dining Room of the Carnegie Inn, 
John W. Ladd was named editor-incliief of the Tartan for next 3rear , 
and Julius Halpern, business manager.
Roy L. Grant will be managing, 
editor; Joseph C. Bronson, sports', 
editor; James E. Stahl, advertising | 
manager; ahd Elizabeth Prellcr, news 
editor. Edward E. McDonald will 
again serve as Plaid editor. The 
associate editors named are Dolly 
Allison, Anthony Carnvale, Marjorie 
Dougherty, Harry Howcr, Christine 
Lcighou, Ruth Phillips, and Henrietta 
Steinberg.
The following were named as 
junior editors: John I-Iiltz, Joseph 
Adams, Edmund McCormick, Alice 
Henzi, Samuel Wicks, Genevieve Rose, 
Anthony Cacchionc, Jacquc Minnott, 
Loretta Conlin, Rosemary Saxton, 
Melvin Frank, and George Myers,
Mr. Ladd, the new editor-in-chief, 
is a junior in the Department of 
Printing, College of Industries, presi
dent of the Pi Kappa Alpha social 
fraternity, a pledge to Dragonn, 
senior class honorary, and Pi Delta 
Epsilon, mens journalistic honorary, 
a'member of Alpha Tan, College of 
Industries scholastic honorary, and 
Pi Alpha .Delta, printing honorary. 
T was recently elected vice presi
dent of the . senior class in the Col
lege of Industries, president of the 
General Y. M. C. A* Student Cabinet, 
and secretary of the Inter fraternity 
Council. For the past school year he 
has been advertising manager of I lie 
Puppet, Carnegies monthly comic 
magazine. He holds a Founder's 
Scholarship for his scholastic work.
Mr. Halpern, the new business 
manager, is a junior in the Dcpartmetit of Physics, College of Engincoring, president of thq' Beta Sigma 
Klin social fraternity a pledge to Pi 
Delta Epsilon, men's journalistic 
honorary, a member of Tau Beta Pi, 
College of Engineering scholastic hon
orary, and thclntcrfratcrnity Council. 
He also is thfi holder of a Founders 
Scholarship. ..T h e managing 
editor, tylr. Grant, 
is a junior in the 
Dcpartm cnt of 
Chemistry, College 
of Engineering, a 
pledge to Pi Delta 
Epsilon, mens 
journalistic hon
orary, and a mem
ber of Theta Tau, 
professional' engi
neering honorary.
Mr. Bronson, 
who will edit the 
sports news, is a ROY L. GRA junior 11 the De
partment of Printing, College of 
Industries, a member of the Theta 
Xi social fraternity, recently elected 
vice president of the College of In
dustries Senate, and a junior track 
team manager. He is a member of 
Delta Skull, junior class honorary, 
Druids, sophomore class honorary, and 
the General Y. M. C. A. Student 
Cabinet. When a freshman he earned 
numerals in basketball.
Mr. Stahl, the advertising manager, 
is a junior in the Department of 
Electrical Engineering, College of 
Engineering, president of the Phi 
Kappa social fraternity, a pledge to 
Dragons, senior class honorary, and 
Pi Delta Epsilon, mens journalistic 
honorary. I-Ie was recently elected 
president of the senior class in the 
College of Engineering and president 
of the Interfraternity Council. He is 
(Continued on Page Three)
Seniors May Order Caps
and Gowns All This Week
All seniors must place orders 
for caps and gowns this week at 
the bookstore. The bookstore will 
be open for orders Tuesday (to
day), Wednesday, Thursday and 
Friday from 11:30 to 3:30, to take 
these orders. No caps and gown' 
will be delivered at this time : 
no payment will be required; lit 
ever, seniors must order, so t 
the proper size gowns may be f 
nished' each student.
Students working for advance 
degrees desiring hoods should 
place orders for them at once.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWO'THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 24, 1932.
Intramural Softball Championship 
Gamos Will Bo Played 
Tonight At 5:30.TARTAN SPORTS PAGE
Final Track Meet of the Season 
with Grove City Thursday 
Afternoon.-J
JOE BRONSON
THE TARTAN TRACKERS were sort of bumped up and 
down the old cinder paths last week when the Skibo runners 
were forced to look at the heels of their opponents on two dif
ferent occasions. The traditional Pitt Panther was the conquerer in the first meet taking the measure of the Scotch on Tues
day evening by the score of 88-47. Saturday the Temple Owls 
left their home in the city of Brotherly Love and arrived in 
Pittsburgh with the "victory cry" on their lips and avenged the 
defeats of their football and basketball teams by trimming the 
Skibo runners 79-50.* * * *
The large crowd of spectators which witnessed the Satur
day contest saw one of the best meets of the year. No less 
than three Track records were broken and two more were tied 
in the course of the afternoon. The 880, the mile, and the two 
jmile marks were broken while 100 yd. dash and the 120 yd. low 
/hurdle times jvere tied. To the Temple Owls goes the credit 
of setting the new records and of tying the Century^ mark 
while Capt. Tom Coulter equaled his last years mark in the 
, Hurdles.-* * * *
Burke of the Carnegie Plebes and Kiger of the Panther 
Frosh put on the most thrilling race of the day in the Pitt 
meet... These two yearlings fought it out the whole way in the 
880 yd. event, and in the last few yards Burke pulled ahead to 
win the race and equal the school mark. This is Burkes first 
year of running and he has already set a course record Cross 
Country.* . * * *
The Tartan Plebes Tennis players scored the first Athletic
victory by the Tartans since the Cross Country season over 
Pitt when they downed the rival Freshmen 4-3 on Monday 
afternoon. The Varsity Racquet wielders ?ifter getting off to 
a fine start dropped three matches in a row last week when 
they were defeated by Pitt, John Hopkins and Georgetown. 
One more match remains to be played and a victory in this 
one will still make it a successful season for the Court Men.* * * *
ANOTHER INTRAMURAL CHAMPIONSHIP seems to 
be in the making for the Kappa Sigs. With but one game to 
be played they have as yet to taste defeat in the softball tourna
ment. Last week they won two exciting games; one with the 
Betas and the other with Rho Damit Rho. In each of these 
contests the Clyde street boys emerged victorious by a 5-'
score. Lou Jagnow, their stellar pitcher, has had his opponents
guessing by virtue of his amazing speed and change of pace, 
The final game of the series will be played tonight with the 
Kappa Sigs meeting Kappa Delta Rho and the Senior Archi
tects playing Rho Darnit Rho.* * * *
THE ANNUAL INTERFRATERNITY SWEEPSTAKES 
camc to a successful close Saturday morning with the Betas 
once again emerging victorious. The race this year was closer 
than usual with all six cars being bundled together until the 
final stretch. Tljc Phi Kappa Psis were in the lead down the 
straight away but were disqualified when George Kavel let go 
of the Buggy before he had crossed the finish mark. The old 
mark of 2 min. 57.5 sec. set by the Betas two years ago was 
broken by three seconds.+ * * if
CARNEIE TECHS COMPETITION IN INTER
COLLEGIATE ATHLETICS comes to a close this week when 
the Tennis Team meets W. & J. on Monday and Guy Halfertys 
Trackers take on , the Grove City runner Thursday. It has 
been oi\e of the most successful seasons in the history of the 
Plaid At.liletics with nlmoBt all of the teams turning in excel
lent recoils.
SKIBOS MEET 
GROVE CITY IN 
TRACK FINALE
Armentrout, Price, Merten 
and Barger in Last Plaid 
Contest
Thursday afternoon in the Bowl 
the Carnegie trackers meet Grove 
City in the seasons windup. To date 
the Tartans boast four wins as 
against three losses and a victory 
over the Crimson would give the 
cinderites a very creditable record 
for the season. Grove City should fall 
before the Tartan onslaught although 
some of the Plaid strength so notice
able at the .first of the season is 
now strangely lacking,
Last year Carnegie had little 
trouble trimming the Grovers and 
advance reports show no great in
crease in Crimson strength. It was in 
this same meet a year ago that Tom 
Coulter established the school mark 
of 49.2 for the 440 and George Ncasc 
tied the "century" mark.
As last years Grove City meet 
wrote finis to the collegiate athletic 
careers of some famous Carnegians, 
so will Thursdays contest ring down 
the curtain on a number of sterling 
Skibo track and field men. Murray 
Armentrout, one of Carnegies great
est all-around athletes and present 
holder of the school hammer throw 
record, will wear the Plaid for the 
last time. Army has also been the 
teams best in the shot this season 
and his graduation will leave a big 
hole in the weight events. Blaine, 
another weight man who has only 
been with the team -for two years, 
and Dick Brindel, who tossed -the 
javelin into many first places, will be 
among the missing next spring.
Ralph Merten and Ray Barger, two 
of Carnegies most versatile field 
men, also make their final bow on 
Thursday. Ray holds the school 
rccbrd in the pole vault and Ralph, 
in addition to being a competent 
vaulter, has piled up many points in 
the high jump and broad jump. Both 
of these men arc performers of 
much greater than average ability, 
and the problem of replacing them 
will indeed be a difficult one.
The Tartan tracksters lose only 
one man from the cinders, but' what 
the team will do without the de
pendable Jess Prices usual two mile 
victory has not yet been decided. 
The ex-cross country captain has been 
Carnegies foremost distance man, 
with the exception of Dykcmnn, pres
ent possessor of the school mile and 
two mill records. Jess, in addition 
to holding the cross country record, 
has seriously threatened the two mile 
mark and may surpass it yet.
Captain Tom Coulter who was a three place winner against Temple on Saturday afternoon.
Trackers Lose Annual Pitt Meet;
Temple Wins Inaugural Engagement
Captain Coulter Gains Individual Honors in Both Con
tests; Owl Squad Sets New Track Marks 
in Carnival Meet
Games In Intermural Mushball 
Championship Played Tonight At 5:30
The lengthy struggle for the Intermural softball cup has at last readied 
the climax for tonight the final two 
games of the tournament will be 
played. At the present time the 
Kappa Sigs seem to have the cup 
almost in hand. Thursday night they 
defeated Beta Thcta Pi in a close 
contest by the score of 5-4. Friday 
night they stepped right out and de
feated the up and coming Dorm men 
from Rho Darnit Rho by the same 
score of 5-4. These two victories 
gave them a clear slate for' the win
ners side of the bracket, and yester
day they met the Senior Architects 
who were victors in the losers side. 
The Kappa Sigs should have won 
their game yesterday and their final
game is with the Kappa Delta Rho 
team this evening.
The Architects won their right 
into the finals by defeating the Delta 
Tati Delta nine on Thursday night 
and coming right back on Friday 
to take over the Kappa Delta Rhos 6-5.
In the other games in the semi
final round, the Kappa Delta Rhos 
defeated Tau Delta Phi, and Rho 
Darnit Rho defeated the Phi Kappa's.
In this tournament four teams en
tered the finals two being from each 
side of the brackct. These teams 
were Kappa Sigma, Kappa Delta Rho, 
Senior Architects, and Rho Darnit 
Rho. Each of the four team's is 
scheduled to play each of the othr ones.
Burke Ties School 
Record As Plebes 
Lose To Panthers
Although the Plebes lost to the 
Panther Yearlings, the meet brought 
forth an individual effort which 
 started Carnegie Track men thinking 
of next season. Lawrence 
Burke, sensational Plebe runner and 
holder of the difficult freshman 
cross-country course mark, nosed out 
Kiger of Pitt to win the SS0 yard 
run and tie the school all-time record 
of 2:01.4. Coach Halferty is shy 
when predictions arc in order but 
will watch with interest Burke's progress next season.
Allen won the high hurdles and 
Kopriva copped the lows against 
Pitt. Pcrina had to be content with 
a third in Ihe 100 and a second in 
the 220, but gained some measure of 
revenge by winning the broad jump. 
The Pitt frosh, boasting ex-high 
school stars in almost every event, 
were too strong for our Plebes and 
the showing which Carnegie made 
s satisfactory considering the grade 
, opposition, 
he, Plebes closed their season 
h a 41 to 29 victory over Schcnley 
.igh School. Pcrina was a triple 
winner in this meet by virtue of his 
victories in the 100, 220 and broad 
ump. Burke won the mile run and 
ippriva took the low hurdles. Davis
A fraternity man student at the 
UNIVERSITY OF IDAHO has to go to a sorority house in order 
to receive his mail. The lucky, or 
unlucky, fellow was listed as liv
ing at the sorority house through 
an oversight, and no amount of 
talking can convince the postal au
thorities that he does not live 
there. Now he calls there daily to 
receive his mail amid the titters 
and giggles of the inmates.
A new excuse for leaving school 
was heard by the registrar at 
UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA. A 
student gave the reason that he 
had tried all the barbers in town 
and none of them would cut; his hair right.
Earl Carroll recently sent an in
vitation to President Lowell of 
HARVARD to attend a showing of this year's edition of the fa
mous Vanities and to give s
placed first in the quarter and Brown 
won the shot and discus.
TECH MANOR
Home Cooked Dinners
>232 FORBES STREET Forben Street, Ncnr AYoodlnwn
Week-Day Dinners, 50c 
5:30-6:30Sunday Dinners, 75c
5:00-6:30 COME OVER THIS EVENING Mrs. Gracc Waujraman Phone MA. 2(78
Poor Weather 
Hinders Golfers 
At First Meet
With the arrangement of a few 
informal matplics and practice ses
sions, Carnegie Tech intercollegi
ate golf is at last taking definite 
shape. Recently Graduate Man 
agcr Overends call for interested 
candidates was answered by some 
twenty enthusiasts and an informal 
match was run off at the Pitts
burgh Field Club. Due to th 
very poor weather, good scorcs were 
impossible, but the showing that 
the contestants made gave prom
ise of furnishing Carnegie with 
competent golfing material if the 
powers tha: be decide that. Tech 
will be represented on the greens 
and fairways next season.
Low scorc for Manager Overends match was turned in by Joel 
Haverstick, a sophomore and one 
of the semi-finalists of last years 
West Penn Tourney. Other golf
ers of local prominence who show
ed some promise are Bob Sigler, 
E.d Reese, A1 Burgoyne and Car
son. All of these plaj^ers have 
had tournament and match experi
ment Avith varying degrees of suc
cess.
After these boys have practiced 
more and have been tested in col
legiate competition, the status of 
golf at Carnegie will be better 
known. At present, however, Mr. 
Overend is pleased with the inter
est and enthusiasm shown in the 
sport and from all indications Car
negie will add golf to her list of sports.
GAMES THIS WEEK 
Monday, May 23
Kappa Sigma vs, Senior Architects. 
Rho Darnit Rho vs. Kappa Delta Rho 
Tuesday, May 24 
Kappa Sigma vs. Kappa Delta Rho. 
Rho Darnit Rho vs. Senior Architects.
verdict on the merits or demerits of the revue.
Hofei Schenley Coffee 
Shop & Delicatessen
Specializes in Club Breakfasts, 
Table DHote Dinners, 
Plate Luncheons.
MODERATE PRICES
Located in Schenley Apts., 
3957 Forbes St.
The Tartan tracksters lost an
other meet to Pitt last Tuesday,, 
when the Panthers romped off with 
points while Carnegie was gar
nering 47. Some consolation is 
due Tech in that her stellar cap
tain, Totn Coulter, camc home 
with individual honors. Tom won 
both high and low hurdles in good 
time and then pushed Woody Har
ris, colored sprint star, to a fast 
21.8 in the 220 yard dash.
In all, Tech annexed five firsts 
as well as a tic for first three seconds, 
and numerous thirds. Jess Price clip
ped off the fastest two-mile of his 
career when lie broke the tape in 
10:03, far in front of the nearest 
Panther rival. Murray Armen
trout got off a beautiful throw and 
tossed the' big ball and chain 131 
feet to win his event. Bargers 
11 feet 6 inches winning vault was 
his best effort of the year and 
marks Rays second victory in -two 
years over Pitt competitors. Car
negies tic for first place was gain
ed by Merten |n the high jump. 
Lew Ewing and Wilbur Ramsay 
both ran good races in the 440 
and mile respectively, but the op1 
position was of such a caliber that 
they were forced to accept third 
place,
VARSITY TRACK EVENTS100-yard dash-AVon by Harris, Pitt; amin 
mimd, Tncli, scrond i Monhein}, Pitt, third. Tlmo 0 0-10 seconds,220-ynrd lnsh'Won by Hnrri.i, Pitt; Coulter, Tech, second: Monholm, Pitt, third. TJmn21 8-10. Rccondii.MO-yfivd dnnhWon by Monholm, Pitt; ICeller, Pitt, second; EwIuk, Tech, third. 
Timefit '1-10 hocoivIk.880-yard runAVon by Giilnes, Pitt, Keller, Pill;, second; Schell, Tech, third. Time 
minutes, three gnof thehSrmtwMilo runWon by AVatkins, Pitt, Gaine.v 
Pitt, second; Ramsey, Tech, Third. Tlmo  t minutes, 1(5 -1-10 seconds.Two-mile runAVon by Price, Tech: Smoyer. Pitt, second; Miur.ei, Pitt, third. Time10 minutes, 3 seconds.120-yard high hurdlesA\ron by Coulter, 
Tech; Thiensen, Pitt, second; Lewis, Pitt, 
third. Tlmo15 0-10 seconds.220-ynrd low HurdlesAVon by Coulter, Tech ; Monholm, Pitt, second :  Thicsscn, 
Pitt, third. Time2-1 8-10 seconds.Shot putWon by Valenti, Pitt; MacMurdo, Pitt, second; Luch, Pitt, third. Distance45 feet, 7 inches.Javelin throwA\ron by Tornioy, Pitt. Grindel, Tech, sccond: Stcntz, Tccli, third, 
Distanco-r-lGl feet, G inches.Hammer throwAVon by Armentrout, Tech; Luch, Pitt, second: Valenti, Pitt 
third. Distance131 feet, 10 inchcs.Discus throwAVon by MacMurdo, Pitt.
Carnegie ran into a track snag in 
the form of a powerful and wellbalanced Temple squad last Satur
day, and was forced t6 accept a '79 
to 56 set-back. In winning, the Owls 
set three new track records and 
equaled one. Shcnker tied the Tartan 
track rccord in the century and 
Davis, Fcderoff and Wudka set new 
marks m the 8S0, mile and two-mile. 
The meet marked the first time that
COURTMEN DROP 
TWO MEETS ON 
EASTERN TRIP
Johns Hopkins, Georgetown, 
Pitt Win Over Skibo 
Net Squad
Whos Who in Carnegie Athletics
Varsity Football
CoachWalter P. Stcffcn_
Carnegie and Temple have gotten 
tbgcthcr in track and next spring 
the Slcibos journey to Philadelphia
for a return engagement.
Captain Tom Coulter Avas again 
the high scorer, this time registering 
three first places for a total of 15 
points. Tom Avon the high hurdles, 
equaled the school rccord in Avinning 
the lows, and then Avon the 220 
yard dash. Lew EAving put on one of 
his typical strong finishes to beat
out Block of Temple for second
place in the 440. Ramsay ran Avhat 
Avas perhaps his best mile of the 
year but Fcderoff, one of the lead
ing milcrs in the East, proved too 
good for Carnegies little cross-coun
try captain. Jess Price Avas also a 
victim of the record-breaking Owl 
squad and had to be content Avith
a second in the two-mile.
Carnegie partially offset Temples, 
track advantage by scoring heavily in 
the Avcight events. Carl Forsman and 
Ed Stcntz placed one-two in the dis
cus. Armentrout and Blain lost to 
Nc;d of Temple in the shot but 
Army Avon the hammer and E. L. 
Brindel had the best javelin throw 
of the da}'. Ralph MertCn tied for 
first in the pole vault; took second in 
the high jump and third in the broad 
jump.
VARSITY MEET100-yard dashAVon by Shcnker, Temple ; Block, Temple, second; Pcncock, Temple, third. Time.10. (Equnls track rec
ord).220-ynrd dashWon by Coulter, Tech; 
Shnnker, Temple, second; Ewlntr, T6ch,
third. Tim22 5-10.M0-ynrd dashWon by Ennslcr, Temple; 
Bmtsw Tech, sccond; Block, Temple, third. 
Time :51 4-10.880-yard runWon by Davis, Temple; Jackson, Temple, sccond; Ennslcr, Temple, 
third. Time2:00 7-10 (New track rec
ord) .One-mile runAVon by Fcderoff, Temple; .Tuckson, Temple, sccond; Ramstiy, Tech, 
third. Time1:28 6-10. (New track rcc
ord).Two-mile runAVon by Wudykn, Temple; Prlcc, Tech, sccond: Fisher, Temple, third. 
Tinic10 :12 2-10. (New track rccord). 120-yard bitch hurdlesAVon by Coulter, Tech: AVicchce, Temple, second; McIntyre, 
Temple, third. Time :1G 1-10.120-yard hiph hurdlesAVon by Coulter, Tech; AVicchce, Temple, second; McIntyre, 
Temple, third. Time :13. (Equals track 
rccord).Shot putWon hy Neal, Temple; Armen-, trout, Tech, second; Blaine, Tech, third. 
Distance10 feet 0 inchcs.DiscusAVon by Forsman, Tech; Stcntz, Tech, sccond; Rubin, Temple, third. Dis
tance117 feet 2 inchcs.JavilinAA'on by Brindel, Tech; Marhefka, Temple, second; Blairte, Tech, third. 
Distance156 feet 7 inches.Pole vaultMerten, Tech, and Shapiro,
Carnegie Techs unblemished rcc
ord on the courts came to serious 
grief last Aveek Avhen they ran into 
three defeats from strong Eastern 
net artists. Monday they dropped 
8-1 decision to Pitt and on Fri
day and Saturday theydropped 
both engagements on the Eastern 
coast to Johns Hopkins and.GeorgetOAvn. The Baltimore racquetmen 
stopped the Skibos 8-1, losing only, 
one doubles engagement, and the 
Hoyas. of GeorgetOAvn made a 
clcan sweep of all nine matches.
Hartig Avas the only man to 
solve Pitts attack, Avinning his 
singles match handily, and later, 
paired with Ducgcr, gave the Pan
ther No. 1 doubles combination a 
tough session.
The Tartans will conclude their 
season today Avhen, they meet the 
W. and J. netmet in a return 
match v.n the Carnegie courts. 
Coach Hoovers charges have al
ready defeated the Proxies once 
this season.
While the varsity Avas finding 
the going hard, the plebes had .a 
big Avcek of it, defeating both of 
their city rivals, Pitt and Duquesne. The Panther Cubs lost 
4-3 and Duqucsne fell 6-1. The 
plebes also conclude their season 
this Aveek against the W. and J. 
freshmen.
Results of Georgetown Meet
SinglesMitchell, Georgetown, defeated Groves, Carnegie. 6-1, 6-1; Doyle, Georget6wn, defeated Gcsling, 'Carnegie, 6-1, 6-3. Berberich, Georgetown, defeated Dueger, Carnegie, 6-2, 8-2; Crowley, Georgetown, 
defeated Hartig, Carnegie, 6-2, 6-3; Sendell, Georgetown, defeated Jalonack, Carnegie, 
6-3, 6-4; Ferguson, Georgetown, defeated Gorshenhauscn, Cnrnegic, 6-1, 6-4.
DoublesMitchell and Crowley, Georgetown, defentod Ducgcr and Hartig, Carnegie, 6-2, 6-2; Burdett and Doyle, Geoigetown, defeated Groves and Gosling, Carnegie, 6-0, 6-3; McBride and Berberick, Georgetown, defeated .Talonack and Gorshenh&usen, Carnegie, 6-0, 6-1.
Results of John Hopkins Meet
Singles  Goldberg, Hopkins, defeated Graves, Tech, 6-1, 715; Helmholtz, Hopkins, 
defeated Gcsring, Tech, 6-1. 6-4 ; Palitz, Hopkinii, defeated Deuger, Tech, 4-6, 6-2, 
7-5; Brooks, Hopkins, defeated Hartig,r Tech, 5-7, 12-10, 6-2; Sivcrcd, Hopkins; defeated Jalonack, Tech, 6-0,  61 ; Dietz,
Temple, tied for first; Barger, Tech, third. 
Height11 feet.High jumpAVon by Lipshutz,Temple ; Merten, Tech, second; McIntyre and Gladisb, Temple, tied for third. Height5 feet 
9 inches.Broad jumpWon by Peacock, Temple. Paul, Temple, sccond; Merten, Tech, third. 
Distance22 feet 8% inchcs.
Head CoachRobert WaddclL. 
ManagerGeorge Meyers.
--Chicago, 111. -Pittsburgh, Pa.-----Wendl, Pa. '-Pittsburgh, Pa. '
CoachRalph Hogan ManagerRichard Kamerer .
c^-4XnFsSzi
Varsity Basketball
...IoAva
CoachGuy'Halferty _ ManagerEd Steiner _ CaptainTom Coulter .
Varsity Track
---------.Butler, Pa.,'-Rocky River, Olile -----------Dover, Ohi' ^
-Pittsburgh, PFord City, Pr -Pittsburgh, F;
CoachGuy Halferty ManagerWilliam Gcsling CaptainJ. T. Price______
Varsity Cross Country
Pittsburgh, ,p -Lancaster, Cl.-' Pittsburgh, /p.
CoachA. E. RisedorphManagerCharles Applegate CaptainNorman Franke___
Varsity Swimming
-Pittsburgh, p-Williamsport, 1 -----Pittsburgh,
Coach;Lieut. Cothran _CaptainF. F. Painter----------ManagerW. J. Hagenlocher-.
Varsity Rifle-Pittsburgh, A .Tarentum, ]] -Pittsburgh, 
CoachB. P. Hoover CaptainManagerT. S. BaileyVarsity Tennis
Pittsburgh, 
-Waynesburg, j
CoachP. C. Allison-Freshman Football
ManagerHarold Cadmus .Pittsburgh,
CoachGeorge Nease'_Freshman Basketball
ManagerMilton BrandyAvine .
-Montclair, Nlj'
----Tarentum, Pa.Hartford, Con m.
CoachGuy Halferty .
ManagerWilliam Harvey Ward.... CaptainArthur Perina ~-----------
Freshman Track
...Pittsburgh, Pa.
CoachGuy Halferty . ManagerF. Millhiser
Freshman Cross Country
Minneapolis, M.inn. -Staten Island, Nj Y.
-Pittsburgh1. Pa. -Pittsburgh,! Pa.
oachA. E. Risedorph-Freshman Swimming
ManagerLaAvrence Dickson.-Pittsburgh, Pa.
CoachLieut. Cothran  ManagerW. S. Depner_
Freshman Rifle
Pittsburgh,-Homestead,!; 
CoachB: P. HooArer_ ManagerMiles A. Kinley
Freshman TennisPittsburgh, Pr -Wilkinsburg, P;
Hopkins, defeated Carshensen, Tech, 6-2, 6-3.DoublesHartig-Deuger, Tech, defeated 
Helmholtz-Palitz, Hopkins, by default ; Sivered-Rains, Hopkins, defeated GravcsGesring, Tech, 6-2, 7-5; Deitz-Goldbcrg,
Hopkins, defeated Jalonack-Carshcnsen, 
-Tech, 6-4,:i:q-P, ,
TEMPLE UNIVERSITY stu
dents Avill certainly see plenty of 
football games next year, because 
all eight games scheduled Avill be 
played at home.
The Student Book Ex
change will open next Tues
day, May 31, to buy for cash 
the textbooks for which you 
have no further use.
sys Ns % a sys
PeoplesPittsburgh 
Trust Co.
Oakland Branch
Forbes & Meyran
THE OAKLAND 
BANK
OFFICERS
JO EO BRNS4Copr.132,T heAAO
pO tO lyNNSpnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn32,b hebaO
JO CO S.cyYBuP-O 32,b hefAO
iO CO JorrocnBAa-O 32,b hefAO
oO JO RoIcsYYYYYYYYYBParebaTO
BwBl po4JoSYYYYYYYYYBAu-O 4bbO
BOARD OF ADVISERS
JO EO Bdnmbuk*e-v 
ta,T EO Jmaek 
t*vn w2m2n,
C, SO EbnPkangbe 
tO p*gbeP imannbey
NO yyO sb-v*bfbe 
JO .O Kbee
tO oO l2mmbe 
pO tO l2mmbe
t*vn sO hbk
BO EO 4vbb-A
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
Keep a Regular
TELEPHONEDate with Home
|OME TOR CHRISTMASwhat could 
be better! Nothing, of course, 
 except more of it and oftener. 
Then why wait for holidays to visit Mother 
and Dad? Reach them tonight by telephone 
its next best to seeing them.
Thousands of college men go home each 
week by telephone. Thats one date theyd 
never cut I Try it yourselfyoull soon see 
why. For a lasting pleasure you cant beat a 
voice visit. And if it gives you a kick, think 
of the thrill it gives the home-folks I
FOR THE LOWEST COST 
AND GREATEST EASE
Set your "date for after 8JO P. M. and take ad
vantage of the low Night Rates. (A dollar call is 
60c at night; a 50c call is 35c.)
By making a date the folks will be at home. Thus 
you can make a Station to Station call rather 
than a more expensive Person to Person call.
Just give the operator your home telephone num
ber. If you like, charges can be reversed.
The folloAving Avant-ad Avas fount 
in the OHIO UNIVERSITY stu 
dent publication: Will the persoi 
Who removed a part of a fountai: 
pen from a room at 75 Soutl 
Court street return the said part, 
or call for the other part?
In one short 
Summer.
. GoRCtheWORLD
65
yunder the auspices of: 
PEIVIVSYLVAIVIA RAILItOAl]* 
GREAT NORTHERN RAILROj 
AMERICAN MAIL LINE 
INTOURIST (SOVIET BUREi'W 
SWEDISH AMERICAN LINfcj 
THOS. COOK & SON, LTD.
Tour the entire -world . ; . Avith|n 
your summer vacation . . . ai?^ 
comfortably! Special boat tra; 
to Seattle . ; . cross the migli 
Pacific to JAPAN . . . CHINA , ,] * 
MANCHURIA in the Palati;1 
President Cleveland of tl,e 
American Mail Line sailing fr<> 
Seattle July 9. Thence by specla^ 
de-luxe train of theTrans-Siberi Q 
Railroad.
TWO WEEKS IN BUSS4LThrough steppes and CosV 
eitieB and the ncAV industrial  
gionB of Siberia arid the Ural 
MOSCOW ... and LE NI NCR 
Then STOCKHOLM, COPi 
HAGEN and BERLIN.
$1,280
plus rail fares in America
Inquirt for tcorld map and compiei itini
AMERICA) 
MAIL LIIV!
604 Fifth Avenue, New York
Boston Philadelphia ATaahinEton Chi Portland, Ore. Seattle Cleveland De 
or your local agent

---------------------------------------------------

A SECTION OF THE TARTAN DEVOTED TO THE NIGHT STUDENTS.Tlhe Carnegie flMaib
ALL DANCE TICKETS SHOULD BE CLEARED PROMPTLY.
Da;
gettin
know
time.
more
know
by day, in every way, I am 
i g idler and idler. I hardly 
 what to do with my spare 
Always a lot of it, now 
than ever, I am at a loss to 
' | where to spend it. I could 
go to the movies, or swimming, or 
play tennisj or boating, or roller 
skati; ng on the quad where not 
even a motor car can go' (for the 
zebra ls have taken the place of the 
- yello{ jw horses), but if I did that I 
wou! ,d be doing something and 
^lll? , lose my name of being idle.
* * * .*
At last I found out where I 
stood in regards to my work for 
the year. Believe it or not, but I 
rate P Qs in all my subjects. The 
Fs and Rs prevail in every in
stance. It wasnt at all what I 
expected would happen. I did think 
I would get through on the skin 
of my teeth, at least, but 
Now I will have to take all the 
courses over again next year. 
V/hats a poor fellow going to do? 
Everybody is down on me. I 
tried to be congenial, but it didnt 
help me one bit. The day of 
judgment came and found me 
wanting. So, there you are; dont 
make the same mistake that I did.
Sure, Im coming back next 
year. How could I do otherwise^: 
,1 made the flunking grades men
tioned above, so I will be one to 
,1 /register in the fall and sign on 
the dotted line. I am, however, 
going to >look up some of the 
courses which arc given in the 
Arts school. It may be that I can 
pass them, but as an engineer, I 
assure you that I would make a 
better architect. They deal in froz
en music, and when it comes to 
harmony, it takes physics to tell 
. you how many cadenzas there arc 
in Offenbachs Tales of Hoffman.jV Physics; you know, is a 
subject dear to the heart of an 
engineer and in the course of 
0f this subject, one is ex
posed  to t'lc phenomena of sound, 
and soi ,nd is a musical tone, which 
all lea ds to a cadenza. Yes, we engiiii^ccrs certainly can .show the 
tv ay t0 knowledge. Our slo,gan >s Engineers lead the way, 
but I . here to be showndidnt 
I fail.
Did  ou attend the Campus CarnivAl? It was sure some party. 
The t st ne I have ever seen. 
The r.. cen was crowned in court
ly fash >on and the dance went 
on to t he tune of two bands, one 
in Thii 'tie Hall and one in the 
Gymn. Dancing seemed to be the 
order o f the ni^ht and it lasted un
til the wee hours. Saw a great num
ber of my cohorts during the eve
ning, < i0 I am sure there were a 
large t lumber of our group scat
tered bout the two dance halls.
Next wftek we Will know more
about the affair as it is too early 
for m< i to get a report on all the 
doings.  etc., so, with these few 
remarl s Ill be signing off until
May 4 at the usual time, hour
and p *ceUMMER COURSES
(Cl 
will be 
ing cot 
go to I 
a decre 
Student 
th su 
dents 
penses 
Wliil 
occupt 
at Davi 
attend 
Davis 
The 
givn c 
Comm 
trical 
Manag, 
course 
lasts f>
.itinued from Page. One) 
carried on in the surroundintry. About 30 men will 
3avis this year. This shows 
ase in the usual number of 
s who take advantage of 
inmer course. Fewer stuare able to meet the exof' extra tuition and board.
work is to be the major 
ion of the students while 
s, they usually find time to 
cvcral country dances in r the vicinity.
;econd surveying course is 
i campus to students of the 
rciali Mechanical, and ElecEngineering, and Works 
ment departments. This 
.Iso begins on June 13, and 
r seven weeks.
LOST
Embarrassing 
Moments At 
Carnegie Tech
The night we asked custodian 
Kap of the Arts School if it was 
going to rain, and received the 
ironical reply: "It will if it comes 
down.
The night of a sudden down 
pour, when we rushed to shelter 
beneath the circular entrance to 
Margaret Morrison College, and 
found that it is uncovered.
The night at the Forbes street 
shelter when someone called us : 
wart, and we never saw the cul
prit before (or after).
The night that Professor Warner 
was shown an article of our con
coction in the Plaid, describing 
him as completely bald, and he 
condemned it as gross exaggera
tion because he still has his eye
brows left.
The night everybody was inquir
ing of everyone else who the night 
art critic is, and we were so con 
spicuous at a time when detection 
might have been fatal.
NEW TARTAN HEADS NAMED
(Continued from Page One) 
also on the staff of the Thistle, Car
negies year book.
The newly elected news editor, Miss 
Preller, is a junior in the Secretarial 
Department, Margaret Morrison Car
negie College. She is a member of 
Alpha Chi Alpha, womens journal
istic fraternitj'.
Among the guests who attended 
the banquet were Dr. Nathan Miller, 
writer of Seriously Speaking, Tar
tans column of curious comment, 
Stewart Ralston and Thomas Lippert, 
former editors-in-chief, Wilfred Worland, a former associate editor, and 
Willard James of the Carnegie New 
Bureau. Each of these men 
short talks.
Gold jeweled activities keys were 
awarded to Harry D. Kolb anil Ed
ward Steiner, the retiring cditor-i: 
chief and business manager. Gold 
keys were awarded to Mary Hauler, 
Nancy Sloan, Gertrude Novak, Jo
seph Michclson, Vincent McBride, 
Zorelda Mazza, Howard Maxwell, and 
Paul Wile for four years service. 
Silver keys, for two years service, 
were awarded to John Hiitz, Jahies 
Drury, Joseph Adams, Sidney Dancoff, Emil Stankcy, Edmund Mc
Cormick, Melvin Frank, Ira William
son, Alice Henzi, Elizabeth Lilley, 
Samuel Wicks, Christine Leighou, 
Mary McCullough, Jacques Minnottc, 
Loretta Conlin, Rosemary Saxton, 
Jean Ritzcl,, Genevieve Rose, Janies 
Stahl, .George Myers, John Lowes, 
James Halferty, William Finglass, A. 
Prycc-Jones, and Charles Chadwick.
BETAS WIN RACE
(Continued from Page One) 
best entry in the Parade of Floats, 
Friday afternoon. The Campus 
Queen Float was their entry. 
Phi Kappa placed second, with 
Custers Last Stand, and Sigm; 
Nil third with the Tilting Auto. 
Honorable mentions went to 
Alpha Sigma Phi for the Fire En
gine; to Birch Hall for Birch Sta
bles and to Thcta Xi, for the 
"Fraternity House.
Mellon Hall won first place in 
the Roller Skate Races on Friday 
afternoon with twelve points; 
Magnolia Hall placed second with 
eight points, and Cedar Hall third, 
with five.
Results by heats were a^- fol
lows: First Heat: Helen Newmeycr, Cedar Hall, first, and Ellen 
Vand'cr Voort, Mellon Hall, second.
Second Heat: Rcba Waggoner, 
Magnolia Hall, first, and Jane 
Tritle, Mellon Hall, second. : 
Third Heat: Elizabeth Lilley,
Mellon Hall; first; Dorothy Newmann, Magnolia Hall, second, and 
Helen Johnson, Mellon Hall, third.
DRAMATS TO GIVE
(Continued from Page One)
Dorothy Gillespie, Mary Hamilton..........
, .......;.......................................................SmstrisJnnet Feather, Jean Dahl......................WidowHenrietta Siskin, Helen Sisenwain..............
...........................................-.......KtherineDorothy Devlin, Mdrgery Ltwine, EllHlth .......................................................BiancaThose playing in the classical 
performances are:
Baptist, s cntlemn of Padua................
One jrown pigskin glove on 
Woodlei vn avenue, near Skibo Inn, 
Friday :vening. Will finder please 
pin glc c to bulletin board in 
Mai/^* LMorrison?----irej -------------------------------------
Vincendo, a merchant of Pisa-..-.............
.......-----------------i-.-r...............David GillespieLucentio, eon to Viricntio....Boyd CriwfrdPotruchio, a gentleman of Verona............
.......-.........................................Samuel MesserGremio nd Hortnsio, suitors to BiAnC Harry Schofield and Donald Gallagher, Garret Ratcliffe 
Trfinio and Biondello, servants to Lucentio........Edward Harmle, William BalesGrumio and Curtis, servants to Ptruchio Regis Joyce. Hnrriette Weiler, Verna FinlSyson nd Dorothy NcvvrrianA Pedant........................;........'William HavliandThe Tailor .
......Edward Palkot and Dimitry NiconoffKatherine, daughter to Baptlst.....ElolseEubanks, Marcia Leety. Ruth HornbeckBianca, daughter to Baptista............PattiLittell, Viola Saylcs, Suzanne Benntt 
The Widow....Mri Noir, Ellr.nbcth Holmes
>r the Coming Formal
t the Latest Style Hand-Tailored Tuxedo Suit 
and Accessories From Us.
L SIZES PERFECT FIT
Special Student Rates
hittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE
T Phone: Residence Phone:
NTIC 9595 EVERGLADE 0918
DID]A NOTICE
THAT the last dance of the 
season was "by far the best one. 
The committee certainly sur
prised everybody with the novel 
lighting arrangements.
THAT several night students 
participated in the Spring Car
nival celebration; those fellows 
seem to be in everj'thing.
THAT "Bill Hodder was re
elected president of the Night 
Student Council; good luck Bill 
and well be sccnya next year.
THAT those girls and boys 
who made so ntanv good inten
tions for the summer arc still 
intending.
THAT the awarding of the 
insignias depends upon the com
plete ticket returns for all dances. 
Lets get them in so that we 
can end the suspense.
THAT, with the beer question 
about to be settled by Congress 
we suggst .that beer on tap be 
served at all dances next year.
THAT writing this coliimn is 
getting tougher than ever since 
night school is over.
THAT thats that and Ill be 
scenya!
UNMANAGEABLE DOORS
(Continued from Page One) 
against the door, a brawny, footballish-looking person arrived. He 
grasped the offending door and 
heaved it open as if it were a 
mere screen door. We were ready 
to step through and to smile our 
grateful thartks when he walked 
on, leaving us stand there, gazing 
vacantly at the closed door.
Another door which almost ex
cites us to wrath is the front door 
Maggie Murph. Theres somequeer about it; we dont 
quite trust double doors of which 
only the left one opens. We have 
a feeling way down deep, that 
when we come back as alumni, 
well niakc the horrid mistake of 
pulling on the side'of the.door that 
is firmly and permanently closed. 
And wC have never ceased to be 
awed by the imtnCnse door 'way 
back by the ' discreetly hidden 
smoking room:
Being a very loyal Maggie 
Murph, we preserve the tradi
tional, somewhat cynical, attitude 
toward Art, students and their 
school. There is one thing, how
ever,"whicli we gladly concede to 
themthe supremacy of their front 
door. When the wind is not 
strong, and there are not many 
people passing in and out, a 
healthy tug at the outer door will 
make an air-pocket or something 
which causes the inner door to 
open all by itself. We hereby 
offer homage to the powers that 
executed such an arrangement, and 
We Earnestly hope that they soon 
get to work on the entrance to 
Administration Hall.
NOTICE
All Crw Members, Supervisors, 
Team Captains. And Student subscription salespeople who wish to avail themselves of the opportunity ior free scholarship made possible through the 
courtesy of the Leading Magazine Publishers again this year are requsted to npply to the national organizer. M. Anthony SteUe, Jr., Box 244, San Juan, Porto Rico, stating qualifications fully.
First Church of Christ
SCIENTIST CLYDE ST., PITTSBURGH
SUNDAY SERVICES 11 A. M. 8 P. M.Sunday School 11 A. M.
Wednesday Evening Testimony Meeting ______________At 8:00 P. M.
15% COMMISSION
Paid to any Carnegie student securing 3tudent orders for photographs at
W.O.BRECKON Studio
Forbes Building, Oakland 
REDUCED RATES NOW IN EFFECT
Powys, Successful 
Author, Departs 
For Parts Unknown
John Cowpcr Powys has left for 
parts unknown. Gone to lead the life 
of a hermit, a recluse. Many readers 
of Powys books have beendelighted 
in the past by his clear, lucid, and 
unusual writings - on a wide range 
of subjects. The readers of his "King 
Lear, David Coppcrficld, The 
Possessed, and Wulhcring Heights, 
Were no doubt pleased to hear that 
he was publishing a new book. Al
most simultaneously came the sudden 
announcement that Powys was leav
ing his New York farm, where he 
had spent three years in writing his 
latest book, and was going away to 
live by himself far from the taint 
and restraint of the masses. The 
desire for solitude and leisure in 
order to think out the many and 
fine thoughts which constantly sweep, 
through his brain has no doubt 
brought about this sudden shift of 
action. No man of Powys ability 
would stoop to such a move in order 
to secure publicity or acclaim. His 
works have already done this for 
him.
PoWys treatment of a subject 
smacksof philosophical romanticism.. 
He leads one through by-ways that 
the reader often felt existed but 
which 'he has never been able to 
find unaided. He has a sweeping 
style and a piercing vision that looks 
into the core of -things and presents 
them as they really arc. "A Glaston
bury Romance," his latest work is a 
talc of life in and around Glaston
bury, the home of the ancient Druids 
in England. It took three years to 
write this melodramatic version of 
present day lifein a region belonging 
to the mystic past. Comedy, tragedy, 
triumph, and despair arc, all com
bined to show the eternal struggle be
tween good and evil.
Powys has gone to live the life of 
a hermit. He has gone away so that 
he may live the lazy, carefree life 
which he loves so wellfree from 
the petty cares and annoyances of a 
mechanized and realistic age. This 
does not mean that his genius will 
become atrophied, lost, to those who 
admire him. Out of the wilds and 
depths in which he seeks the soli-: 
tude he craves there will conic some 
day more; of his. writings; writings 
combining the wisdom of prophet and 
seer. And maybe someday Powys 
will return to the world which has 
acclaimed 'him; return to seek again 
amids.t the mazes of life the truths 
which are hidden from all but the 
clcctcd few. But whether he returns 
or whether he. remains hidden away 
from the world, Powys has left be
hind him enduring monuments to his 
genius.
TYPEWRITERS
All Makes Sold and 
Rented
Special Rates to Students
Agency Underwood, 
Royal-Remington and 
Corona Portables
Standard Typewriter Co
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
Phone Atlantic 0342
8hih:3
The Personal Wiring Machine
Forbes National Bank
FIFTH AND OAKLANDPITTSBURGH
RICKARD K. MELLON.__
THOS. H. McCANDLESS... HARRY S. BROWN...
OFFICERS
MISS N. C. FITZPATRICK...J. NEVIN GARBER.................
PAUL C. EDMUNDSON____
-Vice President and Cashier
--------Assistant Cashier
------------------Assistant Cashier----------...Assistant Cashier
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
THOMAS S. BAKER 
President Carnegio Instituto of 
Technology
JAMES M. BOVARD 
Moorhed it Knox, Attorney 
JOHN G. BOWMAN 
Chancellor University of Pittsburgh
JOHN F. CA8ET 
President John F. Casey Co.
ELMER E. COLL 
President National Union Fir Insurance Company 
A. REX FLINN 
President Booth & Flinn Company
HOWARD M. JOHNSON 
Auditor Ligonier Yalley Railroad
HERBERT A. MAY 
Vice President Union Drawn Steel 
Company 
THOMAS. H. McCANDLESS 
Vico ' President and Cashier 
RICHARD K. MELLON President; Director 
Mellon National Bank 
WILLIAM S. MOORHEAD 
Moorhead & Knox, Attorneys 
HENRY A. PHILLIPS 
Real Estate 
ALAN M. SCAIFE 
Vice President Wm. B. Scaife 
& Sons Company 
EDWARD R. WEIDLEIN 
Director Mellon Institute of Industrial 
Research
EDUCATION
The steady drone of collegc life 
gods on like some giant bumble-bee 
winging his way through the swectsccnted honeysuckle. Just a few short 
weeks and this life will ccasc, and 
out of the jaws of the institutes of 
learning, colleges and universities, 
will be expelled the thousands of 
eager but ignorant-of-lifc men and 
women who will have to face the 
problems of living and a thousand 
and one attendant details. Most of 
the chaff of college learning will 
have to be discarded and the few 
kernels of learning and wisdom will 
be carefully held and treasured. Some 
wont even have the kernelsjust the 
chaff.
Four years! Four years in a hot
house atmosphere and 'then the cold 
blighting winds of the open fields. 
The transplanting will accentuate the 
hardy stalks, but the weak (so many 
of them) will fail under the strain, 
shrivel and die. Some have the idea 
that cramming facts is the thing, 
others can solve any problem or 
make dozens of tests, still others 
know whole books of words and 
lines, but that proves nothing. More 
and more it will become evident that 
the art of living is the primary im
pulse which should be obeyed and 
catered to. What is the value of all 
of our devices of civilization if we 
neglect the true end of all our effort? 
Of what avail is it to build our
selves tools only to find that they 
cannot be used for the job? Is it 
right to build palaces for beggars, 
or golden thrones for dogs to lie 
upon?
Not that it is the job of tile col
leges to teach its students these es
sentials, but the}' can in a measure 
help along in the process. The es
sential thing is to make students 
realize that what they have learned 
is but a prelude to lifes song; an 
overture that tempts the listener with 
a vague delight and promises much 
in the later passages. This is the 
value of education. A fine tool to be 
used in turning out a good job, noth
ing more. When this is learned, and 
when an honest effort ismade to 
apply our imaginations, and when 
we awaken our inherent resources to 
seeking the hidden. delights of life, 
then, and only then will we have a 
civilization and a culture comparable 
to those of the past.
Inter-Night College 
Dance Big Success
A beautiful evening, delightful 
music, and elaborate dccoraiions were 
all combined to make the InterNight College dance held recently 
in the gymnasium a gala event and 
an outstanring sitcccss.
Never before have decorations cxcccdcd these in novelty and grandeur. 
Lighting effects that were both un
usual and decorative have never been 
attempted on such a large scale, and 
the part they played in enhancing 
the gaycty of the evening attests to 
the originality of the night group who 
arc always striving for the unusual 
in decorations.
Numerous colored spotlights were 
focused at various angles upon.a re
volving sphere suspended high over 
the center of the floor and Studded 
with a myriad of tiny mirrors that 
reflected light like phantom snow
flakes. Many colored lights that gave 
a warmth and variety to an other
wise monotonus surface flooded the 
surrounding walls, while powerful 
flood lights, ingeniously placed under 
the stage threw out rays at inter
vals when all other lights were 
darkened.
Hundreds of many eolored balloons 
and pcnants were strung in dazzling 
fashion high over the floor and at 
the proper moment the balloons were 
released upon the dancers who 
fought with great zest to recover 
as many as possible of them, mean
while thenoise of bursting rubber 
spheres sounded not unlike a minia
ture war.
Carl Ludwig and his popular band 
upheld their reputation as one of the 
finest orchestras to appear on the 
campus. Tremendous rounds of ap
plause after each dance number at
tested to the big hit that they made 
with the dancers.
It is with a tinge of regret we 
recall that this is the last dance of 
the season but we look forward with 
pleasant anticipation to the renewals 
next year, and in the words of an
other, well be "sccnya.
WOMENS GUILD 
(Continued from Page One) 
a milk fund for po6r babies as well 
as a food and old clothes day, 
to which any Carnegie students 
may contribute.
VACATIONS
Theoretically the night students arc 
enjoying a vacation. Be that as it 
may, several things seem to point 
to the fact that a night students 
vacation is a more or less chimerical 
period, during which his evenings arc 
ruined by a feeling ofguilt for 
wasting so much time, and awaken
ing in the middle of the night won
dering about which assignment lie 
forgot to work out before retiring.
Perhaps, in fact, certainly, the 
large .majority of the night students 
are not affected so badly, but never
theless, most of them will, admit 
that after the first few nights of 
idleness, there is a somewhat vague 
feeling of unrest which crccps into 
their minds that certainly doesnt 
help them enjoy life any more. Per
haps this all seems far fctchcd, but, 
from personal cxpcrienccs and inter
views with fellow students, the idea 
seems to prevail. It is fortunate that 
most of us really .need the vacation 
period to rest a bit, and,we quiet our' 
conscicnccs by arguing that way, 
otherwise the lctrdown following 
the first elated feeling after the last 
night of school might have disastrous 
consequences. In fact, it might make 
some of us crazier than we arc at 
present.
Speaking of vacations, it is surpris
ing the number of students who ar? 
doing a considerable amount of sparetime work in an effort to booster up 
the exchequer which has suffered con
siderably during the past two years 
of booming business. Aside from 
the financial advantages accruing to 
an evening position in addition to 
their daytime work, the night students 
find a way to remove the restless 
feeling by doing something.
Unfortunately this restlessness docs 
not get in its evil work until the 
time for registration in the supple
mentary term classcs is at least two 
weeks past, so that strenuous and 
sudden efforts have to be made in 
order that we wont feel too idle. 
However, most of us find that tennis, 
dates, sleeping for a change, reading, 
and a lot of other things that wore 
sacrificed during the school term 
supply us with sufficient food for 
thought to prevent our doing any
thing rash. 1
Tickets For Dances 
Should Be Cleared
There arc a number of tickcts 
for cach of the four dances held 
by. the Night Student Council 
which have not been cleared. It 
is important that these tickcts be 
settled for, so that credit can be 
given to the students for the same. 
Returns should be made to Henry 
If.. Mauro, Treasurer, Night Stu
dent Council, Box 137, C. I. T., 
Post Office, Schcnlcy Park, Pitts
burgh, Pa.
The Insignia Award Committee 
would appreciate prompt returns 
so that . their work can be com
pleted and reports made, on the 
standing of the various workers 
for the council. 
BLAISDELL TO HEAD
(Continued from Page One) 
Lawler, and Professor Elva L. 
Bascptn.
The Exccutivc Committee, which 
calls meetings of the faculty, con
sists of three representatives ol 
cach collegc or division.
The Educational Senate is the 
legislative committee and is com
posed of the Director of cach col
lege or division, the Registrar, the 
Commanding Officers of the R. O. 
T. C., and two clcctcd representa
tives from each college or division.
W1 LoprnniiKcDAYANiiNICHT
ENGRAVERS 
HALFTONES COLOR PLATES 
ZINC ETCHINGS 
COMMERCIAL PHOTOGRAPHY
ARTISTS and 
ILLUSTRATORS
POST-SUN Buildin, PITTSBURGH PhoniSiGRunt 1654 or 1655DO YOU INHALE?
Copr.. 1332, The 
Aotrlyn Tobacco Co.
A frank discussion 
at last on a subject that has 
long been taboo
MTET sleeping dogs lie! So said 
JL the cigarette trade when first we 
raised the subject of inhaling. But 
dodging an important issue is not 
Lucky Strikes policy!
Do you inhale? That question is 
vitally important... for every smoker 
inhalesknowingly or unknowingly. 
Every smoker breathes in some part 
of the smoke he or she draws out of 
a cigarette! And the delicate mem
branes of your throat demand that 
your smoke be pure, cleanfree of 
certain impurities!
No wonder Lucky Strike dares to 
raise this vital question! Vcv ^uckies 
bring you the protection you want 
... ticcaiinc Luckies famous purifying 
process removes certain impurities 
concealed in every tobacco leaf. 
Luckies created that process. Only 
Luckies have it!
So, whether you inhale knowingly 
or unknowingly, safeguard those 
delicate membranes!Its toastedYour Throat Protcctlon-aftninnt Irrltatlon-nttnlnst JOEEBR
0. K. AMERICA
TUNE IN ON LUCKY STRIKE60 modern minutes with the world's finest dance orchestras, and 
famous Lucky Strike news features, every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday evening over N. B.C. networks.
1932.THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 24, 1932
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2608 
AFTER OFFICE HOURS CALL
Editor In ChIof._
Pulilinhod ano every v/ck durinic the colloca year by undcr^radnntes of C*m*trie Intlfcut of Tchnolotry. Entered In the Flttnburich Font Office 0 cond-clnn* rott*r.
THE STAFF
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF____
BUSINESS MANAGERMANAGING EDITORPLAID EDITOR_______
NEWS EDITOR_Harry D. Kolb -Edward Steiner _Mary Hauser
EXCHANGE EDITOR__Edward E. McDonald___________Nancy Sloan_______Gertrude Novak
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
Vincent McBride Zorclda MazzaAssignment Editor.I-Ioward Maxwell
JUNIOR EDITORS 
Roy Grant Betty PrellerJulius Halpern Dolly Allison Harry Hower Ruth Phillips John Ladd Henrietta SteinbergChristine Leighou Marjorie DoughertyAlumni Editor____Mary TownsendCartoonist__________Edna Pearson
BUSINESS STAFF
junior
Assistant_____________W. Waldman
CIRCULATION STAFFManager------------- W. Finglass
A. Pryce-Joncs S. Feldman . Chadwick J. MicliclsonE. Sclileuskner
ATHLETICS
_J. MichaelsonEditor---------Woman's Editor__Elizabeth LilleyJ. Bronson G. Myers J. Lowes f. HalfcrtyAssistantsPLAID STAFF
News Editor_______J. H. SansonettiI-I. E. McGannon Frank Cassel* A. N. Evan3
REPORTERS
J. Hiltz J. Drury S. Dancoff J. Adams E. Stankey I. Williamson A. Hcnzi J. Carr J. Livingston 
V. Kloos V. Cooper 
T. ShelleyG. Breakstone
H. Schwarz E. GambleJ. S. Minnotte L. Conlin
R. Saxton J. Ritzel E. McCormick G. Rose S. Williams M. Griffin E. Sherman J. Henderson 
P. Paulus T. Cacchione M. MalakoffA. CarnvaleB. MoreheadC. Mandross B. Cimmuto R. Cohen
A. Ladd
TYPISTS
Sylvia Lyons Ann WardenLucille Jacobs Ann KaufmanMarian McNary
To an impartial recording of all campus news. 
To inaugurate and uphold Carnegie traditions. 
To support all student activities.
To specifically work for a student activities build
ing, better club rooms, and a combined adver
tising agency for all school publications.
And Now Adieu
Students come and students go, but the school goes on 
regardless. Despite this fact which allows for no personal 
feeling, when the time comes for senior farewells one must 
admit a certain amount of sentimentality.
;t With this issue the senior staff of the Tartan takes its 
final bow, for , once again the old order must give way to 
the new. It ahvays seems somewhat ironical that a group 
should spend four years gaining experience in handling the 
school affairs and just when they are becoming of real 
vajue, along comes graduation which transplants them into 
new fields where again they begin as a cub reporter. 
The Tartan is a great teacher and as such undoubtedly con
tributes more to the education of its staff than they to the 
advance of the paper. The removal of anything so. definitely 
a part of ones existence as the work on the Tartan be
comes, leaves a quite a void in the minds of the senior 
staff. 
The present school year when viewed somewhat in 
retrospect appears to be one of more than ordinary achieve
ment. The campus has developed somewhat on the exterior 
but considerably more so in spirit and tradition. Both the 
school and' the newspaper integral with it appear to have 
been progressive enough to make their position increasing
ly'secure. May they continue to do so.
But little remains other than to express appreciation 
for the kindness and interest of those, who have made our 
work as fruitful and enjoyable as it has been. To the 
incoming staff members we wish 'the best of success in 
their most interesting adventure.
The Retiring. Staff.
The Spring Carnival
The Spring Carnival Committee is to be highly com
mended for its splendid work in (lie planning -of this years 
Spring Carnival, it was one of the most successful car
nivals held since the revival of the annual good time several 
years ago. Student interest in all of the events, especially 
the roller skate races and float competition, new features on 
1 he program, should prove gratifying to the committee, 
which has worked zealously for more than a month.
Deserving ofespecial praise is the work of the Bac
chanalians, a newly formed organization on the campus, in 
presenting the satirical revue Tar and Feathers, Saturday 
night. The revue was one of the high lights of the carnival 
revue. It had al^ of the characteristics of a hilarious pro
fessional presentation.
The committee has given Carnegie a spring carnival 
. filled with good clean fun which will be remembered for 
years as one of the best.
The Passing of the Subsidized Athlete
Last week the Middle States Association of Colleges 
and Secondard Schools, an association of the leading col
leges -and universities of New York, Pennsylvania, New
 Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, and the District of Columbia, 
announced that it was opposed to the subsidation of ath
letes and adopted resolutions which after September, 1933, 
will exclude from its approved list schools which continue 
to give scholarships for athletic achievements alone after 
that'date. This move is the result of the financial difficul
ties many colleges and universitieshave experienced with 
their athletic programs during the past several years.
........JFor sometime it has erroneously been believed that a
school must have winning athletic teams to attract stu
dent's. The fallacy of this belief was recently shown in 
this .column. As a result, many institutions have spent 
tremendous amounts of money building mammoth stadiums, 
until through necessity, college athletics have become a 
commercialized proposition. It is openly admitted.at many
 schools that football is the only paying sport and that 
enough money must be made during the football season to 
iirjah.ee all other athletic teams. Smaller gate receipts dur
ing the past few years and a decided reduction in donation's 
usually given by wealthy alumni have caused a curtailment 
ill the giving of athletic scholarships, and some schools 
have ;gpnc to the extent of entirely abolishing the practice. 
It;.is safe to predict that quite a number of the colleges 
which have so .boldly dispensed with athletic subsidation 
will not have winning teams within a few years, unless 
i\iatiy more schools, adopt the same policies. The move 
taken bv the Middle States Association is a definite step 
in an attempt to force the wide-spread abolition of athletic 
scholarships.
When college athletics become a matter of dollars and 
cents to participants, their real purpose has been defeated. 
But a . few days ago several athletes withdrew from com-, 
petition on an athletic team in one of the smaller colleges 
in Western Pennsylvania because the administration .had 
abolished athletic scholarships. What has become of the 
spirit of athletic achievements and the zeal for competi
tion ? '
Athletics, as are all campus activities, are planned for 
the benefit of the students, who in all institutions naturally 
have diverse interests. Why, then, should athletes be lured
Beta Sigma Rho's Prize Winning Float
FROM THE FENCE
A Perfect Carnival
The Carnegie Spring Carnival lias come greatly anticipated and has gone as probably the most successful of all Carnegie Carnivals. No end of credit is due to WillHolloway and his very capable committee. They presented a well organized program of splendid entertainment that gave the students the biggest $1.50 worth theyll ever see. And on top. of all. that a very gorgeous and gracious Queen to rule the .festivities. The whole affair could leave nothing but pleasant memories for those who participated, a marked contrast to a similar festive period at a nearby college.* * * *
For the Scrap Book
Thoughts of school work -.thrown iar.away late Thursday afternoon. All set'for a couple of days of carefree "college life as pictured in stories and movies and as found-in small colliches. . . . A gorgeous evening that, an . author. could-waste half 
a novel in describing. . . . Were wc ever surprised at finding, an honcst-to-goodness 'fountain trickling up among ferns in the middle of the Gym floor. With the-waterworks and many varicolored lights 
theveryathletic gymnasium was transformed into a rather, nice ballroom after the roughness was worn out of the floor. . Marshal-Field and Co. managed to keep the Gym well heated with their music. . . . The exotic , modcrne Thistle Hall crammed with dancers easin around to Jack Bruces, very swell daiice music:' Say, can he do faultless imitations of all types of dance music from Cab Calloways torrid tunes to Guy Lombardos rythm and Wayne Kings wavy waltzers?! Then that. grand Mood Indigo .every sooften. Not much wonder the Intcrsorority wfeht wild over 
him. ...* * * *
Third and Last Day
Those that woke up Saturday morning and were able to get to the campus saw the imposing R. O. T. C. review and the thrilling finals of the sweepstakes classic. . . . Saturday afternoon saw the presentation of awards and the selection of next 3rears big shots. The Kappa: Sigs rather cornered a large percentage of the awards.. Sid Krasik -was well chosen as the outstanding senior engineer. . . . Say, could they get funny noises out of that public address system. The noise at the 
call to: Cwcns sounded like a tiger's, roar... ...* * * *
Mary, Queen of Scots, Crowned
As quite a delightful change from the fairy tale coronation pageants of past years this time Ave had a peppy crowning in the modern manner. What with stompin Russian dancin, a "knock, down and drag out German jig, nice English (?) croonin, and vododeodo American highkicking. The Queen chose 
the American type but we prefer the Teuton type. . . .The crown was very nice and all that but a bit in the way while dancing, so the King carried it on his arm while shoving the Queen around among the dancers. . ..* _ * * *
Hey! Hey Day!
The day. of abandon, hey, and joy unrefined started off with a bang with dashing sweepstakes races that caused plenty of thrills and heartthrobs. The Betas trick. tricycle was destined to win the finals in a new record time of 2:54.8. The Phi Psi car crossed the finish ; line. first but did it so. easily that it didn't need a pusher at the finish so was' disqualified. ... The afternoon program wasinaugurated with, heat roller skate races.
Mellon Hall managed to get a member among the first three in each heat so . ran away with the cup. . . . The Parade of Floats had any sideshow you ever saw backed way off the map. The S. A. E.s had a real water wagon trying to' clear up false impressions but well bet there wasnt any water in it. . . . The T. X. dormitory, scene was very typical. . . . The Birch Stables float' had all the trimmings, steps and all. At the end of the parade one of the school workmen dove through the false steps and lost plenty of skin. ... Th farmer Dlts were there a such. ... The Alpha Sigs must have dug deep to unearth such an antique fire 
ciigine. . . .ThePhi Kaps ' Indians must; have been trainingfor weeks to ke.ep up their war dance so long without biting dust, from exhaustian rather than from cap pistol wounds. Custers horse wasgreat.. . . The Packard load of gangsters look j,ust that. Sorry we werent around earlier. Frank Len.nb.etg of the local motor-moUnted police succumbs easily .to the lure of lucre. . . . The raditor cap girl on the Music float had a real job. . . . Well bet you never saw a horse coasting downhill onroller skates before, wot? ... A splendid team the D. U.s had for their chariot. The mule half must haye been harnessed so tight to save the chariotfrom destruction. . . . Did the Sigma Nu.s .everhave fun with their short wheelbase Phord? 1 And did they take, the Librarians for a rid? . .. . No, sir, theres nothing ..like I-Iey day. . . .* * * *
Mardi Gras!
Early in the evening of the costume ball most of those present did not have costumes and it looked like any informal dancq. But a littljtt came kiddies, peasants, cosmopolitans, cowboys and Indians, Hindus, Time to Retires, white robed Greeks, Hula Hulas, Suthern Cunels, nightshirts, pajamas, flour bag suits, Spaniards, sailors, .. ct cetera, and so forth, etc. . . .The cowboys periodically shot up the place. . . The Indians broke out with a massacre ever and anon. . .  The costume ball was a grand finale to a day of hey. . . .* * * *
Tar and Feathers
Of course the title had nothing -what-so-ever to do with the revue Saturday night. We mentioned before that the revue was sure to be a $4.40 attraction. It was better than that; it was at least a 
$6.60 attraction. It was no end of improvement over the old Campus Week shows. If the sponsoring group is not recognized after that noble effort there are plenty of less deserving organizations that should be elected to oblivion. Herewith arc bouquets for all that had, anything to do with the very successful Tar and Feathers. . ... TheCarnival was brought to a dose with a fine ceremony in the Sylvan theater thus bringing, to an end not a practically perfect Carnival but a wholly perfect Carnival. . . .* * * *
Note
We wish to say that We nevqr'before in our lift saw the fellow in the picture on the backJ page of last weeks Tartan. It must have been a typographical error. We also wish to thank the many conscious and unconscious contributors to the colyum during the past year. Also many thrix to.June Fuhs who has done much of the cartoon work herewith presented, just for the devil of it. : Orbin has turned athletic! His hurdles at the front of Machinery Hall are swell, but a little too high for any Carnegians bronching Lizzie. Its a good idea, though. Whats next?
to college by athletic scholarships when students with the 
same degree of "ability in other extra-curriculum activities 
are not enticed with publication scholarships and the like?
The ideal situation would not call for the complete 
abolition of scholarships for athletes who have accom
plished-proficiency, for surely athletes are entitled to finan
cial aid if other students in extra-curriculum activities are. 
A plan which might be offered' to supplant the present 
method of subsidationone. which should meet with the 
approval of the Middle States Associationwould provide 
for the awarding of scholarships to juniors and seniors who 
have shown ability, interest, and sportsmanship in athletics. 
This plan would follow the s^me .used; in awarding scholar
ships for scholastic attainments, as. well as - the customary 
method of; paying salaries to students, usually seniors, who 
head college publications. \
If such a plan were widely adopted by associations 
throughout, the country,-, much would be accomplished to
ward restoring 'coilege athletics to -a level which is not 
tainted with aspects of commercialization. Athletes who 
care little about academic work would not have an artificial 
incentive ;to enter college only, to' 'find that they cannot main
tain the scholastic eligibility requirements. After all, 
scholarship should be considered -first and extra-curriculum 
activities second.
AN APPRECIATION
The Spring Carnival Committee wishes to thank the many people responsible for the successful Carnival of last week. Without their untiring energy and the co-operation of the students attending the various functions, we feel that the Spring Carnival would have been doomed forever. To Colonel Fairley and Mr. Orbin, ,we are exceptional grateful for their ceaseless efforts to help the committee at all times. To the social fraternities, honorary organizations, mens and womens dormitories, we are thankful for the spirit with which they responded to the program. And to the members of the cast of Tar and Feathers and the others responsible for the musical revue, we wish to expres sour exceptional gratitude for the unending work and co-operation which they put into their work.
We hope that the number of students attending future Carnivals will increase each year, for we feel that nowhere can there be found the entertainment afforded by the very reasonable rates offered in the past.
_________________ Will Holloway, Genl Chair.
M. M. C. C. PLEBES 
DONATE TO FUND
HONORARY CALLS
 1. Alpha ChiAlpha (Journalis
tic Honorary for Women):
, Mary McCullough 
; Rosemary Saxton 
j Katherine Wholey 
| 2. Tau Beta Pi (Honorary fratjcrnity for. Engineers):
Anthony. Carnvale 
Robert Hutchison 
Edward McCandless 
Robert Smith 
Winfred Uffelman 
Earl Warwick
3. Alpha Tau (Honorary frater
nity of College, of Industries):
Shorey Allen 
William A. Bostick 
Fredric N. Davis.
Bradley W.Edelblut .
Harold B. Pressman 
Ned F. Stirling
4. Theta Tau (Engineering Honorary) :
Charles Burton 
John Clingerman 
Robert Fish 
Harvey Harrod 
. John Harvey r 
Carlton E. Hunter  5. Scalp and Blade (Honorary 
for students from Buffalo; N. Y.): 
Ralph' F. Edwards 
Charles B. Lyman 
F. Lamont . McClincy
6. Pi Delta Epsilon (Journalis
tic Honorary for Men):.
Charles E. Blochinger 
Ammon  B. Godshall;
Roy L. Grant 
Julius Halpern 
William R." Hodder 
John W. Ladd 
William C. Lazarus 
John L. Kroncnherg 
John V. McBride 
Roger D. Middlekauff 
Robert E. Robinson 
John F. Simpson.William A. Smith 
James E. Stahl 
Emil G. Stankey
7. Tau Sigma Delta (Honor
ary for Architecture and Allied Arts):
Honorary Member,- Associate 
Professor Frederic C. Clayter 
Daniel Defenbacher 
Josef L. Lentz 
John Lisotto.
Arthur  Schaffert
8. Scarab (Architectural Honor
ary Fraternity):
Earl A. Biggin 
 Grattan B. Giesey 
Edward W. Hazel 
Robert L. Holt'meier 
Robert L. Schell
9. Alphi RhiV Chi (Professional 
Architectural Fraternity):
Richard Bfihft 
William Geilfiiss 
Nels Johnson 
Eugene Mackey 
William > Perry 
Emerson BrdsseyGeorge. Smith
10. Cwens (Sophomore Class 
Honorary for Women):
Margaret Barr 
Daisy Clarke 
Virginia Cooper 
Mary Duncan 
Rose Grentzer 
Margaret Griffin 
Julia Hubbard 
Veronica Kloos 
Elizabeth Lowry 
Nancy Ann McQuade 
Mary Rowles 
Thelma Shell3r 
Eleanor Sherman 
Virginia Siegal 
Madolin .Vautrinot 
Margaret Watters 
Florence Weaver 
Marcella Withum 
Mary Wynne
11. Druids (Sophomore Class 
Honorary):
Lawrence R. Burke 
Richard A. Blair 
Elmer A. Blasdell 
William Carlson 
Albert R. Cline 
Augustine J. Dcely 
George W. Goodridge 
Bert W. Hartnoll 
Richard L. Jones 
Wilbur Plummer 
Edward George Rigg 
William W. Sauvary
12. Delta Skull (Junior Class 
Honorary):
Charles Davis 
Carl Forsman 
James Halferty 
Lewis Jagnow 
Libbus Lewis 
John Lowes 
Edmund McCormick 
Edward Rhodes - 
John Sayl'es 
Charles Slater 
Colin Stewart 
Samuel Wicks
13. Mortar Board (S.cnior Glass 
Honorary for Women): -
Hulda Bricrly ' . "
Hazel Gough 
Gloria Kloos 
Marian McNary 
Dorothy Morse 
Betty Preller 
Margaret Seibert 
Dorothy Shults 
Mary Townsend 
Josephine Wardell 
Katherine Wholey 
Alice Work
14. Dragon (Senior ;Class Hon
orary)
James Fergus 
Thomas H. Coulter 
Ira F. Kuhn 
John L. Kronenberg 
William C. Lazarus 
Josef L. Lentz 
John W. Ladd 
Robert E. Robinson 
. Robert R. Smith 
James E. Stahl
W. H. SCHEICK 
RECEIVES PRIZE
Le Brun Scholarship Given 
Carnegie Alumnus
. The. Le Brun Traveling Scholar
ship for 1932, competed for by stu
dents of architecture throughout 
the country, has been awarded to 
William H. . Scheick, a graduate of 
Carnegie. Mr. Scheick matriculated 
at Carnegie, in -1923 and graduated 
in 1928.- At the completion of his 
five years here, he was awarded 
the medal of the American Insti
tute of Architecture , for outstand
ing work. After graduation, lie 
spent one year in office work, fol
lowing which he departed for the 
West to,teach design at Oklahoma 
Agricultural and Mechanical Col
lege. The next year he went to 
the University^ of Illinois to serve 
as critic of Class B design.
In 1931 he won the Warren 
Prize, ; and this year he has been 
selected tocompete as a finalist 
for the Paris Prize in Architecture 
for 1932. Upon being awarded the 
Le Brun Traveling Scholarship, 
Mr. Scheick - expressed his gratitude for the help and guidance of 
Professor Grapin and Professor 
Hitchens of the Department of 
Architecture who greatly influenced 
his architectural training while at 
Carn egie.
He is a member of Carnegie 
chapters of Alpha Rh6 Chi and 
Tau Sigma Delta, architectural 
honorary fraternities'.
OnThe Way To Success I
For over sixty years we have j been helping young people j with their financial affairs and j showing them how a sound banking connection aids them on the way to success. Your future prosperity depends on thrifty habits in spending and saving; a bank acccmnt will teach you to handle money wisely and will give you a foundation of experience in financial transactions. We welcome student accounts re
gardless of size.
Mellon National Bank
PITTSBURGH, PA.
CLUB NOTES
Costume Economics Club 
Those who will hold office f*or 
next year in the Costume E;co_ 
nomjes Club arc: Aulma Bless\n 
president; Margaret Brewer, Yjc(! 
president; Mildred Young, scjcjai 
chairman; Kathryn Kells, sccrctary_ treasurer. f '
Science Club
The Science Club of Marg.aret 
Morrison Carnegie College has 
chosen the following to hold 0f. 
fice for the coming year: Gertrude 
Landis, president; Marian Edw^rcjs 
vice president; Isabel Weston, secI 
retary-treasurer; Mary Jane rav social chairman.
Social Work Club 
The Social Work Club of ^far_ 
garet Morrison at a recent mieti 
elected the following officers :"pjor. 
ence Davidson, president; ^[ary 
Kelly, secretary, and Alice iraunstein, treasurer. The Social Work 
Club includes all sophomore? jun. 
iors, and seniors enrolled i, t]ie 
Social Work Department.
A. I. E. E.
The annual banquet of the carhegie student, chapter of the A^,.. 
ican Institute of Electrical ] 
neer's will be held on Friday,
27, at 6:30, in the faculty di...6 
room of the Carnegie Inn.
The following officers were re
cently elected to head the chapter 
for the coming year: Chairman,
Wilfred Uffelman; vice chairman, 
Bob Fish; treasurer, Samuel Hyle 
and secretary, William Nichols.
Pi Tau Sigima 
At the annual banquet of Pi Tau 
Sigma, Carnegie mechanical engi
neering honorary fraternity, the following officers for the coming 
year were elected: President, Harry P^ Miller; vice president, Wil
liam A. Smith, Jr.; secretary,. Jo
seph Vcriscl; treasurer, Robert E. 
Robinson, and corresponding sec
retary, Henrjr Wcstin.
C. M. E. S.
The following officers have been 
elected for the Carnegie Mechani
cal Engineering Society for the, 
coming year: Chairman, Harry P. 
Miller; ' vice chairman, James 
Speer; secretary, Charles Lyman; 
treasurer, William A. Smith, Jr. 
These officers were formally in-1 
stalled at the recent banquet, to! 
gether with Professor S. B. Ely, 
who was elected honorary chair
man for a period of three yeaifs;
Contributions Help Former 
Carnegie Employee
The freshman class of Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie College is spon
soring a welfare program which 
will last from now until: the end 
.of the school term. Each member 
of the class is donating at least 
five cents each week. The money 
is being used to buy clothing and 
other necessities for a Woman who 
formerly worked for Carnegie, who 
is now incapacitated because of an injury received on her way to 
school. She has two children and 
no means' of support.
Agnes Cancelliere  and, Miriam 
Malakoff are in charge -of this pro
gram. The, money, is -collected 
every Monday and Friday' from 
11:30 to 1:30 oclock in the front 
hall of Margaret Morrison. It 
would be greatly appreciated if 
anyone else on the campus who 
wishes to contribute .to this .cause 
would do so on either-of the day 
mentioned. *
Fire is the password of a 
club recently  organized at the 
UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAR
OLINA-membership is; restricted 
to red-headed students.
The Student Book Ex
change will open next Tues
day, May 31, to buy for cash 
the textbooks for which you 
have no further use.
THE GREEKS HAD AWORD 
FOR THEM!
XZESPIO (born with wings)
EXHIBIT A. MERCURY  EXHIBIT B. PEGASUS
In' the best families (or any others for the matter) that doesnt happen nowadays. Hence the United States Air Corps offers some attractive inducements to you college students for whom it has built a $10,000,000 institution, at San Antonio, Texas, where they teach you to fly and while you are learning:
Pay you a salary of $75.00 per month. Pay your living 
expenses.
Supply you (free, of course) with snappy, tailor-made, sky 
blue uniforms.
Grant you the social and military privileges of potential 
officers.
Pay your traveling expenses from your home to the new field at Sart Antonio. 700 Men are taken in each year. The course requires a year to complete and includes over 200 hours .of solo flying. Those who stay the full year are commissioned as Lieutenants in the Air Corps Reserve.^
If. you dont like the training you may resign at any time.' 
For example:
Should you stay three months and then resign you will re
ceive $225.00 cash, your round trip expenses from your home to San Antonio, and about 50 hours of solo flying.
The service and associations of the Air Corps gives its members a very real distinction and a very noticeable breadth 
and poise.
If you have applied and are ready to go, we have compiled information and tips giving you inside angles and dope that will be invaluable when you arrive at the field. If you havent applied yet then by all means get our information. We tell you the entrance procedure and certain twists that make your getting in easier and quicker. The information written by men who have been thru the school covers all points from beginning to end that you are interested in knowing. This information can
not be obtained elsewhere; it is complete. Nothing else to buy. The price is $1.00 or sent C. O. D. if you desire.
NATIONAL AVIATION SERVICE
742 S. HILL ST. LOS ANGELES, CALIF.
Notice
All seniors and any obher p* 
dents who took courses C-109  
C-110 (English I) in the year '.I 
29, may call for their fresli.V 
themes in Room 72, Engine(*ri. 
Hall, on May 24, 25, and 26 ifom 
12:30 p. m. to 1:30 p. m. ani d from 
4 p. m. to 5:30 p. m.
No wonder 
men smOke 
PIPES!
E
very pipe smoker has t:
isfaction of knowing he h; 
masculine right 
that the women 
wont take away 
from him. They 
do leave our 
pipes alone.
And though 
the girls may not 
know it, theyre 
leaving us one of , .. r  t - 1 *avntethe finest smokes > college m 
a man. can have.
Theres something calm and soj 
about a pipe and good tobad 
leads to clear-headed thinking 
haps thats why the leaderstil 
men of the worldare pipe sm 
College mi 
a pipe  -] 
with cool .1 
burning 
worth, the, 
ite pipe i 
in 42 ou 
colleges. . ^ 
especiall ' 
pipes, to 
cooler, . 
smoke. \ 
buy Edgeworth wherever good : 
is sold. Or for a special sample 3 
write to Larus &C Bro. Co., i 
22d St., Richmond, Va.
PeoPplsSMOKING TOBAC i
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old 
with its natural savor enhanced i 
worths distinctive 
and exclusive elev
enth process. Buy 
Edge worth any
where in two forms 
EdgeworthReadyRubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All 
sizes, 15 pocket 
package to ^z.50 
pound humidor tin.
