BASKET BALL 
GROVE CITY, FRIDAY 
ALLEGHENY, SATURDAYarniflif &tan
POST-BALL DANCE 
ARTS COLLEGE 
SAT. EVE., 9 TO 12
VOL. XVII. NO. 19CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1923
DR. J. ERSKINE 
IS TO LECTURE 
ON LITERATURE
Columbia English Professor 
to Give Three Talks in 
Arts Theater on American 
Literature of Today
* *: V v *:* v 4ϻ *1*
v MEMORIAL SERVICE FOR *1*
* PROF. KELLER TO BE HELD *
* IN ARTS THEATER, 4:30, *1*
*> FEFRUARY 13 >
FEBRUARY 14-15-16
Dr. John Erskine,. professor of Eng
lish at Columbia University, has been 
engaged to give a series of three pub
lic lectures at Carnegie Institute of 
Technology on February 14, 15 and 
16. Dr. Thomas S. Baker, acting 
president of Carnegie Tech, is secur
ing Dr. Erskine in response to many 
requests for the opportunity to hear 
a leading authority in the field of lit
erature. In the eminent professor of 
Columbia, the Carnegie authorities 
have engaged an author and educator 
whose name needs no introduction 
among those interested in literature.
The genral subject of the series isj 
American Literature Today, and each 
day, he will discuss one o the subtopics: Poetry, Fiction and Criticism. 
The lectures, will be given at 4:30 p. 
m. in the Theater, of the College of 
Fine Arts.. According to an announce
ment from the Institute the public is 
invited, admission tickets to be dis
tributed through the office of the Sec
retary.
Dr. Erskine is a graduate of Colum
bia, where he received degrees of 
A.B., A.M. and Ph.D. From Norwich 
"University he received the degree of 
LL.D. He taught English at Amherst 
College for seven years prior to his 
appointment/ to the chair at Columbia, 
in 1916. Pie has written many poems, 
books and essays, and has served as 
editor of several literary publications.
In 1918 and 1919, Dr. Erskine 
served as chairman of the Army Edu
cational Commission of the A. E. F., 
and as Educational Director of the A. 
E. F. University at Becune, France.
In addition to many honors confer
red upon him as a scholar and educa
tor, his war service has been officially 
recognized by this country and the 
United States. France elected him a 
Chevalier of the Legion of Honor, in 
1919, and the same year he was 
awarded the Distinguished Service 
Medal by the U. S. Congress. The 
Cibyi of Boanine, France, also contri
buted to his prestige by electing him 
one of its Honorary Citizens.
Delta Tau Delta Grants 
Chapter at Carnegie
Tau Gamma Phi Now Delta 
Beta Chapter of National 
Fraternity
The Delta Tau Delta national fra
ternity, at their annual convention in 
New York last month, awarded a 
chapter to the Tau Gamma Phi fra
ternity of Carnegie Tech. This came 
as. the result of several years work 
by "Tau Gam, and the fraternity is to 
be congratulated on its success.
Delta Tau Delta was founded at 
Bethany College, West Virginia, in 
1858. It has a total of 63 active chap
ters. Of this number twenty-nine 
own their own houses, the total valua
tion being $559,000. The most im
portant publication of the fraternity 
is its journal, the Rainbow, published 
monthly. Several of the chapters pub
lish periodicals.
The chapters of the fraternity are 
geographically divided ihto. four divi
sions: the northern, eastern, southern 
and western. The affairs of the fra
ternity are administered through the 
. Arch Chapter, five members being 
elected by the bi-ennial conventions 
and one member by each of the divi
sion conferences. The latter, four 
members are presidents of their re
spective divisions and are generally 
alumni.
Delta Tau Delta has for some years 
past made *an unusual effort to im
prove the scholarship of its members. 
This has been an organized national 
effort and not a matter of individual 
chapter work. Each chapter is held 
to account for its standing in this re
gard.
The badge of the fraternity is a 
nearly square shield with concave 
(Continued on Page Three)
New Song Book is Now Ready 
For Appearance on Campus
A report from the Song Book com
mittee reassures the students that 
the book will be ready for publication 
by February 1, 1923, and will be put 
on sale soon after the new semester 
opens. The number of songs has been 
constantly growing, and at the last 
minute copies of new songs are com
ing to the committee on publication. 
Besides a goodly number of school 
songs, there are a few peppy numbers 
which will put new life into the mu
sic, symbolic of Carnegie, and which 
will sing themselves into the heart of 
every student. The cost of the book 
has not been made public, nor has the 
plan of sale, but it is certain that they 
will appear on the campus in a few 
weeks.
-IA memorial servicefor Pro*2* 
v fessor Keller will be held in *J* 
.?!- the Theater of the Arts College v
? on Tuesday, February 13, at * 
v four-thirty oclock. Students and *
* faculty are invited to attend this 
i* service.
1* . .
OVER ONE THOUSAND 
1923 THISTLES SOLD
You Can Still Subscribe For 
Your Copy at Storeroom
The last subscription campaign for 
the year book was entirely success
ful. Over 1,000 copies of the Thistle 
have been sold to the student body 
and subscriptions from the alumni 
are being received every day. The 
Thistle Board wishes to thank those 
who have already subscribed for their 
support; for it is their co-operation 
which will make the book a success.
So many have inquired about get
ting the year book after the last cam
paign closed, that arrangements are 
being made to have a salesbook 
placed in the Store Room. Only fifty 
copies will bfe placed on sale and 
when they are sold no more will be 
available. The sale will probably be
gin next Monday.
The editor-in-chief has already sent 
the material for the first half of the 
book to the publisher. The remainder 
of the copy is due February 15. The 
fraternity pictures will be sent to the 
various houses this week. The men 
in charge of mounting the pictures 
are requested to get the completed 
work returned to the Thistle Board 
as soon as possible.
Many bills are still outstanding and 
it is absolutely essential that all such 
bills be paid before February 15. The 
treasurers of the various dorms and 
organizations are urged to make pay
ment this week, if possible.
The editor is still hampered, due 
to the fact that many club writeups 
have not been furnished. In order to 
print the Thistle on scheduled time, 
all writeups must be in immediately.
The business board of the year 
book again asks for Plebes and Sopho
mores to work on the publication. 
This work will give the underclass
men points for activity and will also 
give them some valuable experience.
Advice to Newly-Weds, 
Arent Husbands Funny
Harry Hamilton, author of "Youre 
Next, has made a valuable contribu
tion to psychology and to literature 
in his latest production Arent Hus
bands Funny?
Rumors of many newly engaged 
couples on the campus indicate that 
Ibefore ' long suggestions will be in 
order on how to make a husband 
think he -is having his own way, 
when he is in reality having "her 
way. All the technicalities of this 
process, Mr. Hamilton has introduced 
into this play.
Shilling, aiming always to supply 
the needs of its readers, has with 
great difficulty secured permission 
to publish this document. For 
specific information on how to man
age a husband see Shillingout Feb
ruary 12, at twelve oclock.Adv.
Carnegie Tech Physicists 
Discuss Some Recent Work
The Physics Colloquium had a bril
liant series of meetings during the 
month of January. At the meeting 
of January 5, Professor H. S. Hower 
and Dr. T. S. Taylor of the Westinghouse Research Laboratory gave an 
account of the Boston meeting of the 
American Physical Society. The pa
pers presented were numerous and of 
very good quality. At the meeting 
held at Harvard University Professor 
Hower met two graduates of Car
negie Tech, Hoover and Steinberger. 
They are doing graduate work in 
Physics at the Jefferson Physical Lab
oratory. Hoover has been assisting 
Professor Bridgman, the authority on 
high pressures ,who has carried his 
researches to pressures of the order 
of 20,000 atmospheres.
At the meeting of January 12, Mr. 
E. M. Pugh reported on the work of 
Davisson and Germer on the thermio
nic work function of tungsten. Mr. 
Pugh made an interesting reference 
to Dr. Davissons work as a teacher 
at Carnegie at the time when Mr. 
Pugh was a student in the Physics 
Department. Dr. Davissons ability in 
both the mathematical and experi
mental sides of Physics is shown in 
this paper.
At the meeting of January 29, Dr. 
Kelvin Burns addressed the Colloquim 
on the accurate measurement of wave 
lengths, particularly on the compari
son of solar wave lengths with terres
trial standards. Dr. Burns has ob
tained a grant from the National 
Academy of Science for use in making 
comparisons of solar lines with some 
terrestrial lines that have been very 
accurately determined by Michelson 
and others. He states that there are 
thousands of lines in the solar spec
trum which it has not been possible 
(Continued on Page Two.)
TEN CARNEGIE 
MEN IN BEAUX 
ARTS CONTEST
REV. CHARLES B. FOELESCH OF j a ttv rip t o r|~\ ajj T " T 
CALVARY LUTHERAN CHURCH Z\ K II N I X VU I 
TO SPEAK AT CHAPEL THUR. UUHU 1 U TT ILL/
KAPER IN EGYPT 
FRIDAY NIGHT
TO SPEAK AT CHAPEL THUR.
Arts College Gets Ten Out of 
Twenty-Five Places in 
Second Preliminary For 
Paris Beaux Arts Scholar
ship Contest
WINNER GETS $2500
Carnegie Tech architectural stu
dents will have ten chances out of 25 
of winning the coveted Paris Scholar
ship prize this year. According to the 
latest results in the preliminary elim
ination, ten Carnegie men have qual
ified to take the second preliminary. 
This is an unusual distinction since 
every architectural student in the 
country is eligible to compete, and of 
them, only twenty-five are selected by 
the Beaux Arts Institute in New York 
as candidates for the final competi
tion.
Because of the high quality of their 
work in previous Beaux Arts prob
lems, the following Carnegie Tech 
men were exempted, from competition 
in the first preliminary problem for 
the Paris prize: H. T. Aspinwall of
Pittsburgh, C. W. Hunt of Fort 
Wayne, Ind.; R. W. Klee of Evans
ville, Ind.; O. M. Olsen of Dulurh. 
Minn.; J. P. Metheny of Eilwood City, 
Pa.; G. H. Pauly of Hamburg, N. Y.; 
W. J. Perkins of Cleveland, Ohio, and 
Paul F. Simpson of Lima, Ohio.
;0f the Carnegie men who competed 
in the first preliminary Robert W. 
Sclimertz, a post-graduate, was award
ed fourth place and a third modal 
qualifying him for continued competi
tion, and Cassimir Pellegrini was 
given sixth place and honorable men
tion, and placed as an alternate in the 
Paris prize competition.
The Paris Prize Scholarship is one 
of the most coveted among architec
tural scholarships in the country. It 
has a cash stipend of $2,500 a year, 
with two and a half years of study at 
the Beaux Arts Institute in Paris. The 
prize is given annually by a private 
donor, and the award is made by 
judges at the Beaux Arts Institute of 
Design in New York City. Professor 
Harry Sternfeld, head of the Depart
ment of Architecture, and Professor
D. D. Ellington of the Department of 
Architecture at Carnegie, are former 
holders of the Paris prize.
MUSICAL CLUBS TO GIVE 
DANCE FEB. 9 IN UNION
Dancing will be the chief attraction 
on the campus Friday evening, Feb
ruary 9, for the Musical Clubs are giv
ing a dance in the Union that night 
which will rival the Arts Ball. Al
though the Arts Ball Is slated as the 
big attraction, there are many stu
dents on the campus who will take 
advantage of this opportunity, and if 
public opinion has any bearing, there 
will be a record crowd in the Union 
that evening.
Special plans have been made by 
the committee in charge to surprise1 
the dancers in many novel ways, and 
a special musical program has been 
arranged by the orchestrawhich is 
also a surprise. Nothing has been 
left undone which could be done to 
make the Musical Klubs Karnival sur
pass the Kapers at Karnac.
Students of the Arts school have 
asked for permission to come to the 
Klubs Karnival and then go to the 
Kapers, but the committee has ex
pressed its opinion in the negative. 
Consequently, many who would have 
been transformed to ancient Egypt, 
have chosen to attend the Musical 
Clubs dance instead of the Ball.
Reverend Charles B. Foelescli of 
the Calvary Lutheran Church will be 
the speaker at the chapel services 
nexl Thursday.
Attendance to the chapel services 
has been 011 the increase, but there 
Is still plenty of room for those who 
will attend. Some of the best speak 
ers along religious lines in Pittsburgh 
appear for these exercises and it is 
well worth the time to go and hear 
these men and their message.
TEACHERS OFFERED 
SUMMER COURSES
Arts Faculty to Give Courses 
on Pitt Campus. Usual 
Subjects Given
The schedules of subjects for the 
Summer Session of 1923, have been 
practically completed. The Summer 
Courses fall into two main groups, 
those for under graduate students of 
the institute, and those arranged 
primarily for teachers of technical 
subjects.
The great majority of the under 
graduate courses begin June 25, and 
continue eight weeks. Each subject 
is made equivalent to the work of 
each semester by being scheduled for 
twice the usual number of hours a 
week.
Courses for teachers are offered 
in four different fields: Public
School Music, Home Economics, Fine 
and Applied Arts, and Manual and 
Industrial Arts. All courses , for 
teachers begin July 2.
In addition to the subjects schod 
oiled for six or eight weeks, the fol
lowing courses in surveying will bo 
given: (1) for Sophomore clvlls and
Freshman miners, June 18 to July 
28; (2) for Sophomores in building 
construction, June 18 to July 7; (3) 
For Sophomore electricals, mechan
icals and metallurgical, August 29 
to iSeptember 12. This last course 
is also an elective, open to Indus
tries' students, other than those in 
building construction.
In co-operation with the United 
States Bureau of Mines, a four 
(Continued on Page Three)
WILL HAVE GYM. PLANS 
COMPLETED BY FEB. 15
It has finally been deilnatoly announcedi by Architect Ilornbostol 
that the plans, for the new gym will 
be completed and ready to recolvo 
bids by February 15, so that work 
may be begun in March.
This statement was made wlion I10 
submitted the plans as approvod by 
the Building Committee to the Toch 
School Committee and received in
structions to finish the plans as ac
cepted.
The quostion was raised by the 
Alumni Federation Building Commit
tee whether the. structure.as planned 
would be In complete harmony with 
the group of buildings wo already 
have, but was withdrawn upon the 
assurance of Architect HornboHtel 
that such was the case and that the 
style would be in accordance with 
the rest of the school.
Now that the plans have been fin
ally accepted and an actual date has 
been set for their completion, hope 
that the gym will be open for next 
year is again revived, though it will 
hardly be Teady for next fall.
C. J. COPLEY FATHER OF
FUTURE CARNEGIE MAN
C. J. Copley, class of 1922, Commer
cial Engineering, is the proud father 
of a bouncing baby boy. Charles J. 
Copley, Jr., was born January 18,
1923, and. according, to his father is a 
future Carnegie Tech man. As for a 
tennis prospect we hope that he will 
be a chip off the old block.
Environment of Rameses II 
and His Warriors Will 
Envelop Art Students From 
9 p. m. to 4 a. m.
WILL AWARD PRIZES
Kapers at Karnalc, the 1923 ren
dition of the Annual Costume Ball of 
the students of the College of Fine 
Arts, will hold full sway in the Arts 
Foyer, Friday evening, February 9, 
from 9 p. 111. until 4 a. 111.
A number of Pittsburgh artists 
have been invited to attend the func
tion. The players of the Chicago 
Opera Company, playing Aida at 
the Syria Mosque Friday liavo also 
been tendered invitations.
Appropriate prizes will bo award
ed for the best womans costume, 
the best mans costume, and for the 
best pair of costumes. The winners 
will bo selected by those members 
of the faculty present at the ball.
The pageant will form in the foyer 
at 11:30. At 12 the show in the Little 
Theater begins. Dancing will contin
ue throughout the duration of the 
function.
Tlio music will bo furnished by a 
special ten piece orchestra headed by 
Von Moltken, who has played at 
many celebrated social affairs at the 
Ritz Carlton in Now York and at the 
Breakers In Atlantic City.
The doors of the Arts College on 
that memorable night will be under 
a vigilant guard who will pass only 
thoso who are ollgiblo to participate. 
Entrance into the foyor will trans
port one into the land and spirit of 
ancient Egypt.
Ramosls II and Ills warriors aro 
homio mgaln from their conquests! 
Tlio groat city is filled with riot and 
joy. Only this morning tlio popula
tion surged out through tlio gates to 
welcome tliolr master with palm 
leaves.
MTlia plunder Is oxcesslvo. The 
dusky city Is dazzlod. Now It Is night 
Pharaoh Is In his palace and sur
rounded by priests, nobles, generals..
The 'columned hall of yellow and 
black with lls lotun-frlozo Is shim
mering in green lights. The eyes of 
tlio sacred scarabs burn In the upper 
darknoSB. Musicians woave a music 
of Infinite translu'concy, enveloping 
all things, and through this veil move 
the congrogated forms, bodies glazod 
like dark glass or scalod ovor with 
(Contlnuod on Pago Throe)
PGH. PRINTERS SPEAK 
AT GRAPHICA BANQUET
A spirited gathering of printers at
tended a Graph lea banquet In the 
I-Iotol Chatham Blue Room,last night. 
Several Inspirational speeches wore 
made by mombors of the Pittsburgh 
Tiypotlietae who woro prosent.
W. C. MoFaU of tlio Murdoclc-Korr 
Printing Company and) C. L. Best of 
tlio Sterling Press,, gave short talks 
to the students. There wore ovor 
flftyi present, including students of 
the night classes who have boon ad
mitted to membership. R. L. For
sythe, president of the Pittsburgh 
Typothetae. and John Gwyer, secre
tary of the Pittsburgh Typothetae, 
were guests at tills banquet. The 
Entertainment Committee which plan
ned this affair consists of Blxler, 
chairman; E. Rygg and M. A. Dono
hue. This is to bei the permanent 
Entertainment Committee for the rest 
of the year. A Library Committee 
was also appointed at a recent meet
ing, consisting of Sowers, chairman; 
Gwyer and G. J. Donahue. This com
mittee will takecare of the books 
that have been given to I he club and 
will care for additions to the library.
SOME DAY WE OUGHT TO HAVEA
baseball 
PI E:\_D
LUTHERAN STUDENT HOUSE 
HOLDS HOUSE PARTY FOR 
CARNEGIE TECH STUDENTS
ITlio Lutheran StudentHouse cordi
ally invites Carn'eglo Tech students 
to the student party to bo held to
night, February 7, at S: 15 p. 111., at 
tlio house, Bayard and Dlthrldgo 
streets.
Arrangements for the ovoulng are 
In the hands of a special commit
tee: Miss Kathnyn Oesterling, Miss
Catherine Long, Miss Lois Killlnger, 
Prof. Harry Mclveo and Mr. Conrad 
ltizer.
HELP PUPPET WIN 
COLLEGE CONTEST
CAMPUS WEEK 
PLANS BEGIN 
TO TAKE SHAPE
Committee Chairman Ap
points Assistants  W ork 
Started to Make Greatest 
Celebration Possible
ZELT IS CHAIRMAN
Judge ' College Wit Contest 
Opens; Students Asked 
to Contribute
Puppet is asking for the help of all 
students during the next two weeks. 
Although it has a loyal staff, Puppet 
expects to enter a national contest, 
and In order to win, wants to have the 
support of the student body. This 
contest, which is held annually, is as 
truly a fight as any that has been 
staged 011 tlio athletic field, and as 
truly needs the support of the student 
body.
The contest has been conducted for 
three years, the Columbia Jester win
ning for the first year and tlio Cornell 
Widow* winning for tlio last tAvo years 
in succession.
The contest is conducted by Judgo, 
and Is known as the Judgo College 
Wit Contest. Competition Is open 
only to undergraduates of all the col
leges of America. The object of the 
contest is to supply Judgo with mate 
rial for tlio annual College Wit Num
ber. The comic papor of tlio college 
whoso students submit the most and 
the best 111a torlal receives a cup.
If the cup Is won for throe yoars in 
succession It becomes the permanent 
possession of the winning collegia. It 
is for this reason that the Cornell stu
dents will fight harder than ovor this 
year In nn attempt to bring tlio cup 
permanently to Cornoll.
Carnegie students can bring the 
cup hero If l.hoy will got out and 
fight, said James K. Matter, odltorlu-chlor of Puppet, in common ting on 
the contest. Cornell, In winning for 
I ho pan!, two years has won bfecauac 
tho students have adopted a fighting 
attitude. , Tlio students havo gotten 
behind the Widow and fought, as 
though It woro a football or banket 
ball game. Out of the thousands of 
contributions submitted to tho Widow 
during Its campaign, a very largo 
number woro of tho typo that woro 
wanted, with tho result that tho Wid
ow won tho big contest by forco of 
number.
"With tho same Idea of lighting In 
mind, Puppot Is starting a campaign 
for material to win tho big content. 
Puppot ranked sixth last year with a 
Tow contributors. With tho proper 
co-operation from tho student body, 
Carnegie can win.
Joke Day will bo obsorvod on Fobruary II), 1023. Evory student will bo 
aslcod to contrlbuto two jokes for tho 
contest on that day. Tho material 
sent In should havo tho originators 
namo on It, with tho class, and name 
of his school.
Submit anything! Drawings and 
Illustrations aro particularly noedod! 
Try and inako tho contributions as 
gonoral as posslblo for tho Collogo 
Wit Nuinbor Is a national number. If 
material submittod by a student is 
printed, Judgo will pay the student 
(Continued on Page "Three.)
Collegiate Six to Play 
For Post Ball Dance
Plans are rapidly assuming a defin
ite shape for the post-ball dance to 
I)e hold on Saturday, February 10, in 
the foyer of the College of Fine Arts. 
Tills dance has become an annual af
fair, in order that students of the 
other three schools may have an op
portunity to visit the scenes of festiv
ity held the preceding night by the 
Arts students.
Chairman Vic Stromquist of the 
post-ball committee has announced 
that the Egyptian decorations will 
remain intact and that Ev Hughes 
and his Collegiate Six has been en
gaged for the occasion. Ills music 
hounds will play from the bridge 
which proved so popular at the. social 
functions held in the Arts foyer last 
year. Dancing will begin promptly 
at 9 oclock and the admission will be 
$1.50.
.First nows of Carnegie Techs 
Foourth Annual Campus Week Cele
bration came out a few days ago, 
when Chairman Albert Dutch Zolt 
announced his committee. From now 
on, following the first gathering of 
tills committee, Tuesday, February 
13, in tho Y. M. C. A. Club Room, 
plans will assume definite shape in 
fast time,' and judging from the in
terest shown by tlio members of tho 
committee, this year's plans to eclipse 
tho three proceeding ones. This is 
quito natural, for improvements usu
ally do come with experience, and 
with the exjerieaico of three past suc
cessful celebrations to look back up
on, there seems to be 110 reason 
whatever for anything but the best 
yet.
'Chairman Zolt announces the per
sonnel of Ills General Committee as 
follows:
Assistant Chairman, George Saltsman
Secretary ............................... Fay Glass
Treasurer .................. Don Mawhlnnoy
Geiieral Planning.. .Toasdalo Barney
Social ...................................... Earl Gross
SAveopstakes .........Hi. Den Sonneman
Eloetrleal Construction.. .E., A. Brand
Publicity ......................... II. F. Simpson
Qualification ......................T. N. Griggs
Margaret Morrison... .Lillian Coleman 
Entertainment ........................................
...Jaolc Wlllnrdi and Ohio Newman
Muslo ..................................L. C; Turootte
Construction......................... Gy Comfort
Athletics ......................E. M. Greenlaw
For thoj bonofit of tho Freshmen 
and other 111011 iioav to tho Campus 
Woolc Celebration, a few Avords 
about It, Avould not bo amiss.
I11 tho first place; Campus Woolc 
Is the biggest event of tho your. It 
oaqily stands hoad,-ovor-hools abovo 
all other ovonts on tho student cal
endar. It 11.1 tho annual Homo-dom
ing event for all Alumni, former stu
dents, friends and tho general pub
lic Is cordially Invited. It Is tho one 
chance for tho student body to BASKET 
to these pooplo Avhut Carnegie Tech 
In capable of doing In the Avuy of a 
(Contlnuod on Pago Two.)
Annual Junior Prom 
Held at Schenley
Two Hundred Couples Attend 
Prom Breaks Up at 2:00
Tho Junior Prom which Avan hold 
Friday ovonlng In tho ball room of 
tho Hotel Sohonloy Ayas a comploto 
success. Tho annual ball ETSLS pronouncod tho host ovor staged In tho 
history of tho school, for from the 
time dancing started shortly after 
nine o'clock until the last note Avas 
ployod, tlioro was not a dull momont.
Tho hall was Doautlfully docorated. 
Evory cornor of tho ball room Avas 
filled Avlth palms and potted plants 
Avhllo the Avails Avore covered with 
Bmilax. A touch of color Avas added 
to the scenp by a large Carnegie ban
ner.
President Baker and Dean Breed 
led the Grand March. Tlioy were fol
lowed by W. II. Ryan, chairman of 
the Prom committee, and the presi
dents of the three mens schools. At 
the close of the promenade, the room 
Avas darkened and when the lights 
Avere turned on, Miss Leighou stepped 
out of her Winton and distributed the 
favorsfeather fans of various col
ors.
Dancing was resumed and contin
ued until supper Avas served. The 
dining room of the Schenley Avas taken 
to its capacity. Each of the tables 
Avas decorated Avlth potted floAvers and 
large varl-colored balloons.
After. the dinner dancing was 
again resumed and Avas the popular 
pastime until tAvo oclock, Avhen the 
strains of the homo Avaltz bore the' 
sad neAvs that the sixteenth annual 
Junior Prom Avas about to end.
TlieVe Avere over tAvo hundred cou(Contlnuod on Page Three.)
Brightness at Tech on Cloudy Day 
Frightens Daring Groundhog Away
Bror Groundhog, that weather 
prophot supremo, mnde hits 
appearance on tho Carnegie campus 
Friday, February 2, 1023, much to the 
ploasuro of all who saw him appear, 
for they all know that Brer Ground
hog would 00 bis hadow and crawl 
back Into his dugout for tho rost of 
King Winter's rule.
Bror Groundhog made Ills appear
ance on time, approaching from 
Schenley Park, and wearing his fami
liar snille. As he turned around the 
corner of the Langley Lab., he en
countered a group of Plebes, just re
leased from close confinement within. 
A single look around their bright and
shining faces was sufficient. The 
groundhog saw bln shadow.
True to tradition, he turned to run 
and hide, for tho groundhog, like 
many, Avas afraid of his own shadow. 
Why should ho not bo afraid when 
the shadow Avas cast by so many 
bright lights? He made a break for 
tho Central Building.
The first porson lie ran Into In this 
building Avas Mr. Bright, the registrar. 
I-Ie saw the shadow, and turned to 
run down the hallway of the Indus
tries Building.
Half way down the hall, he ran into 
the Math Profs. Each wore a bright 
(Continued on Page Three.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1923
Published every week.by undergraduate of the Carnegie Institute of
Technology under tho supervision of the Student Activities Board.__________
Entered In tho Postoillco of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.__________
VICTOR H. STItOMQUIST ..................................................................... Bditor-in-Chlof
TelephoneI-Illand 858.
PA GA SONNEMANN.............................................................................. Business Manager
TelephoneSchenley 1)2X1
EDW. A. BRAND....................................................................................... Managing Editor
TelephoneSchenley 9143
KENNETH ARNOLD.............................................................................. Associate Editor
T-T. F. SIMPSON ......................................................................................... Associate Editor
H. F. DIIilTER...................................................................................................Associate Editor
MARK S. DOWNES.................................................................................................News Editor
TelephoneHazel 1)898
FRED C. SMITH.......................................................................................................Nows Editor
TelepliohoHHand 8118-J
FRED T. PHELPS...................................................................................................Nov/s Editor
TelephoneSchenley 1)102
H. H. WILSON .....................................................................................................Athletic Editor
TelephoneHazel 03I5G
R. P. HAY ............................................................................................................ Photographer
It. 13. KELLER............................................................................................Exchange Editor
E. P. COUSE, .TR............................................................................................................Art Editor
T. S. REPPLIER .............................................................................................. Special Writer
J. M. COOPER ................................................................................... Advertising Manager
TelephoneSchenley 0211
EA C. MAJOR ........................................................................................Circulation Manager
TelephoneSchenley 0102
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
P. C. McKenzie, L. HorUman, F. D. Rossini, W. Winning, L. D. Richards, 
A. F. Andrews, 13. DoMare, E. G. Elglo, A. IS. Krogh, A. I. Isaacs, R. G. 
Kennedy.
* ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS
E. C. Frazier, J. IT. Ferguson, G. E. Jacoby, J. Christoff, II. P. Rossbaclc.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
W. B. Cunningham, T. J. Dempsey, J. B. Laudlg, D. Moslrovltz, J. W. 
Metro, P. W. Itellly, H. Gibson, W. A. Jacko, P. Edle, R. L. Sandrock, B. 
Broudy, H. Urschel.
The Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for tho policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for tho make up.
Tho Tartan welcomes, all communications of student Interest, If slgnod. 
Signature will bo withhold If dosirod. All nows Items must bo In tho student 
poBtoflleo before 4:30 Friday.
Tartan OlllcoRoom G-A, Industries Building. Oillce hourBTuesday, 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednosday, 12:00 to 1:00. ___________________
THE NEW GYMNASIUM
COMMENTS
ON BEING TREATED AS A
GENTLEMAN DURING EXAMS
When tlio new gymnasium is completed we hope that it will be 
a thing of beauty us well as a building which will take care oil our 
needs for many years to come. We must plan for the future, and 
therefore can not go too rapidly in solving the problem. There are 
many phases oi! tho situation that must be considered before going 
ahead. The thing we are up against is that our funds are limited; 
which means wo must get all wo can for the money and ut the same 
time not sacrifice beauty and construction.
The alumni and students will have to be patient and wait until 
tho trustees and alumni committee have worked out a satisfactory 
solution. It seems reuaonablo to assume that work will soon be 
started; but there aro questions arising of which not everyone is 
familiar and which may bring about further delay; however, there 
is no doubt but that the pooplo in charge aro as anxious to see the 
building ready for occupancy us anyone; but they have the school 
at lieart and want to see a building best suited for its purpose and 
also enhance the campus.
A CHAOTIO SITUATION
Tlio confusion at tho basket ball game last Saturday night is 
inexcusable from an outsider's point of view. Tho public must have 
gotten a bad impression of our management, because it seemed as 
though there was no system of handling tho crowd; for many people 
were deprived of seats wlyeh they wore to get. Tlio band again got 
tho worst end ol! tho deal; but they did the best they could under the 
circumstances and desorved a lot of credit for tho good spirit dis
played.
Whoovcr is responsible for tho chaos should get on tho job and 
seo that this disgraceful situation doos not arise again; for wo can 
not alTord to run our gnmos in such a manner.
NEW STAFF MEMBERS
Examinations seem to bo a neces
sary evil and In spite of the constant 
argument for and against them, they 
still persist and show no signs of 
1 corning to an end.
The writer does not Intend to argue 
for or against examinations; neither 
does ho care to argue for or against 
the honor system; but ho doeB have a 
great deal to say In regard to tho 
methode now In voguo by some In
structors at Carnegie Tech in con
ducting examinations. Nonot all 
the professors regard the students as 
a thief or crook, but a few of those 
who colloct books and brief cases be
fore examinations and place them in 
the front of tho room ought to put on 
a brass-buttoned blue uniform, add a 
little avoirdupois and help enforce 
law and order in the streets of Pitts
burgh rather than attempt to educate 
tho younger generation.
Tho writer is a Senior, 1-jp has be
come acquainted with scores of pro
fessors and Instructors while at Car
negie and he ventures to say, in all 
truth and earnestness, that more crib
bing occurs in classes where the in
structor walks around with the mien 
of a blue coat and regards everyone 
as a crook or a thief, than the one 
who pays little attention to the class 
taking the examination; and even oc
casionally loavos the room.
Tho students havo, too much respect 
for tho professor who trusts them, to 
carry on any cribbing and in the re
cent examinations the writer took 
particular notice of this fact. In one 
examination the instructor in charge 
left the room for perhaps ten minutes 
and though there were only a few 
students taking the examination NOT 
A SINGLE ATTEMPT WAS MADE 
TO CRIB. They admired the man 
who trusted them. They had too 
much honor in them to crib when 
treated as gentlemen.
In another class, the books and 
brief cases were collected. The in
structors walked around with eagle 
eyes bent on catching some one illic
itly using a book or looking at the 
other fellows paper. Well, in that 
case you know.how it is. The major
ity of students, feeling that they, are 
not being treated as gentlemen, want 
to show the prof that they can get 
away with it. IF A PERSON WANTS 
TO CRIB HE WILL CRIB, even 
though all the instructors in the 
school watch him; but treat the stu
dent as a gentleman; treat him as 
you would want to bo treated, Mr. 
Professor, and there will be no crib
bing. Tho professors at Carnegie 
that aro admired aro the ones who, 
trust tho students and they are tho 
ones who havo no cribbing in the 
class room or during examinations.
Tho stufi of the Oarnogio Tartan has boon reorganized and many 
new names added. Thoro now men havo worked faithfully for one 
som ester or longer, and havo shown unusual interest in. the paper; 
they thoroforo aro well qualified to carry on tho work.
To boeomo a, member oil this stall! is an honor which carries with 
it a doflnito duly and responsibility; for each woolc regardless ol! va
cations or examinations, the news must bp published. There is no 
activity on tho campus which requires moro reliable students.
We congratulate the now members and hopo they will work for 
the best interests of Carnegie by giving our subscribers true and ac
curato news.
Student Calendar
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7
Musical Clubs Roliotiml.........................................^ :00, Carncgio Union
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 8
Chapel............................................................................12:50, Arts Theater
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY !)
DauceArts Ball.............................................9:00, College of Fine Arts
DanceMusical Club...............................................9:00, Carnegie Union
Basket BallGrove City TGR Carnegie........7:30, Carnegie Field House
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 10
DancePost-Ball Dance.................................9:00, College of Fine Arts
Basket BallAllegheny vs. Carnegie.......7:30, Carnegie Field House
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 11
Musical ClubsGlee Club.............................2:30, Arts Exhibition Hall
Mandolin Club.............................2:30, Carnegie Union
RecitalDepartment of Music....................................8:15, Arts Theater
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 17
DanceBasket Ball........................................................................................:..............9:00, Carnegie Union
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 18
Symphony Concert...........................................8:15, Carnegie Music Hall
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21
DauceInter-Honorary...........................................9:00, Carnegie Union
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23 
DanceGambol of Guilds.......................................9:00, Carnegie Union
EXCHANGES
FORCE OF HABIT
"Why was Doctor Kutter so eevoroly reprimanded by tho club li
brarian.?
Thoy caught him absent-mindedly 
romovlng tho appendix from the book 
ho was reading.''Amorlcan Legion 
Wookly.
Colored Rookle: Td lahlc to luivo
a new palr ol! shoea, sub"
Sorge ani: "Aro your choes worn
pul?
Colorod Roolclo: "Worn out! Man,
tho bottina ol! mah ahoos avo so 
thlii uh ean top on a dime and teli 
whothor lts hoiuls or tollsl"
Tho muldOBt word of tonguo or 
pon la to road on your dosk pad for 
tomorrow: test at ton.Tan and
Cardinal.
A great , many girls say "No" at 
ilrst; but like tho photographer, 
thoy know how to retouch their neg
atives.Georgia Technique.
Barber: "You say you have been 
hero before? I do not remember 
your face."
Victim: Ah, its all healed up
now.Georgia Technique.
"Name three
Pi Delta Epsilon Announces 
Subject of Prize Editorial
"I havo long advocatod tho ability 
to swim as a requisite of graduation 
from oollogefi," stated a woll known 
custom sporting editor recently, In 
cjonunoiitilng on P.t Delta Epslion's 
19251 Ihtoroolloglat.o Editorial Contest.
E. Earl Anthony, Oxford graduate 
and a representative college man of 
the characteristic British type, said, 
"With us there is general participa
tion in games. Wo do not watch a 
few select men perforin and, although 
we have our Oxford teams and Cam
bridge teams, everyone takes part in 
football, cricket, bowls, golf and ten
nis. If America makes physical fit
ness a required qualification for grad
uation. she will insure the allround fit
ness of students for success.
When Pi Delta Epsilon chose as its 
subject "Physical Development as a 
Requisite for the College Degree, 
and invited a general discussion by 
American undergraduates in the form 
of editorials, a point of great inter
est was evidently touched upon.
Entry Compulsory.
Already Cecil F. Gordon, General 
Undorgraduate Chairman of the Contost, has roceivod many letters of in
quiry. P. C. Pack, Grand Editor of 
Pi Delta Epsilon, has announced that, 
booauso of this widespread lutorost, 
con tost rulos will bo rigidly adhored 
to.
For the Information of those not 
already entered, a. brief summary of 
the rules follow: Contest, opens Jan
uary Uf), 1023, and closes February 28, 
1023, at midnight. Editorials mu.v 
not exceed BOO words. An assumed 
name must bo written In tho upper 
lofthand corner of each manuscript 
sheet. This assumed name will thou 
be written upon the face on an en
velope and within the onvelopo must 
be: Name of contestant, ago, homo
city, class, local college address and 
telephone number. Editorials must 
be in the hands of Cocil F. Gordon, 
Sigma Phi Epsilon House, Hanover, 
N. H., not later than the final closing 
date and hour.
It has also been announced that 
winners of last years gold, silver or 
bronze medals will not be eligible to 
compete.
English Professor: 
strong nouns.
Bullard1: "Onion, garlic and limburger.Washington Collegian.
Try to live so that if a mustard 
plaster" were applied, to your head, 
something besides hair would come 
out.Westminster Holcad.
HeEach hour I spend with you 
is like a pearl to me.
She'"Aw, quit stringing me. 
The Technique.
Landlady: "We have only one
bathroom so each one must desig
nate a time to bathe. What time 
do you prefer?"
Junior (very politely:) "Madam, 
your time will be my time.The 
Technique.
UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO
The Freulimen of Chicago termin
ated a "pop rally" by burning tho 
groon cap of tliolr rank.
Tho air was cold 
Tho night was worse,
But she and 1 
Wore just reverse.
In a census taken at Iowa State 
University in regard to studies, it 
was found that nou-fraternity men 
stood on an average of 3 per cent 
higher than fraternity men. On the 
other hand, the Sorority women 
ranked higher by 5 per cent than 
non-sorority won\en.Iowa State Stu
dent.
ROAMINS
Geography takes on strange as
pects, the various cities become noted 
for strange things and the population 
of the smallest towns becomes a me
tropolis when a bunch of home town 
enthusiastlcs gather In a room at 
some fraternity house and dorm and 
discuss the merits of their home town.
Little burgs that we have never 
heard of become .tho great railroad 
centers of the world and the names 
of towns that never reached our ears 
until they sent their brightest to'Carnegie Tech to study are suddenly 
classed among the larger cities of the 
world.
At that, though, if you dont boost 
your home town no one else will.
The only bad thing about these intersectlonal arguments is the fact 
that the<y, get quite heated at times 
and threaten to become more than 
an argument.
Did you put it over on the exams 
last week or did you pack your trunk 
and get your room deposit refund?
Just becauso a student has a suit 
case in his hand at the present time 
it does not necessarily follow that he 
is leaving school. Maybe he is send
ing his dirty shirt home.
The flag was not flown during exam 
week, for there were not enough halfmasts to go around, so they didnt 
favor anyone.
Those "birds who are sitting on 
the fence now are doing so for the 
simple reason that tho first two weeks 
of a repeating course are always easy. 
Wait another month.
If the men students of Carnegie 
didn't shave till they passed an exam 
they would look like members of the 
House of David.
Once upon a time, the people of 
Pittsburgh and the surrounding cit
ies used to comment on the immense 
amount of spirit over at Carnegie 
Tech in contrast with the small num
ber of students. Those days are gone 
forever.
Last football season, our friends 
used to ask us why we showed so 
little enthusiasm at our footba.ll 
games. We told them "They dont 
yell much when the teams winning, 
but just wait until they get behind; 
then youll hear them holler. And 
Roamer really believed It.
When the team lOBt, we made less 
noise than before.
Over at Pitt, last Friday night, they 
were standing three deop ten min
utes before tho prelim game started. 
How were they at tho field house Sat
urday?
Their cheering was about fifty per 
cont better than ours. The Pitt 
sounded deep, loud, snappy, with a 
volume that shook the old shack, and 
the cheer leader didnt make a fifteen 
minute plea before each yell in order 
to got it.
Nor did ho havo to say "Talk to 
em, fellows." They hollered.
Its a rotten feeling to bo at a rival 
school and know right down deep in 
your bones that they show more real 
spirit than doos your own student 
body. Roamer knows!
Boforo tho W. Sr. J. game, Pitt studonts paraded through tho city for 
hours, with a band, and bannors bear
ing various slogans. All Pittsburgh 
know tliat Pitt was out to win tho 
next; day. Thoy made "Groasy Noel.
Boforo tlio Notro Dame' gamo, the 
Carnegie students cut afternoon 
classes and marched around the 
campus. In tho morning tho lclltle 
band marchod through town. Notro 
Dame 10, Carnegie Tech 0.
Whore was tho dlfforonco?
If you woro at both gamos you 
know. At tho Pitt gam,o, the air was 
electric. Tho students had that feel
ing of "Fight, and wo WONT lose. 
Thoy didn't.
At tho Carnegie Tech game, the 
air was cold, and all the students re
marked about it. We had that feel
ing, "Woll, hope wo win, but even so, 
aint we got a dandy band?
Theres lots of school spirit in 
Pittsburgh, but 75 per cent of it is 
north of Forbes street.
Laugh that off.
ROAMER.
A. I. E. E. Meeting Postponed 
Due to Inspection Tours
The meeting of the A. I. E. E. 
which was to have been held tomor
row night has been postponed due 
to the irregularity of the schedule 
during this week.
The meeting will be held Thursday, 
February 15, in Room 21S. A very 
unusual program has been provided 
for. Mr. S. K. Hayes will present 
three reels of films and over fift/y 
slides together with a talk on Power 
Development in the Far East. The 
films and slides are the result of 
more than 40,000 miles travel and 
form a prize collection.
Mr. Hayes is connectcd with the 
Westlnghouso Electric and Manufac
turing Company and is fully compe
tent to speak on tho subjoct, for, as 
every one connoctod with tho indus
try knows, the Westlnghouso Com
pany does extensive work in connec
tion with power developments in l'or 
eight lands. More details of the 
meeting will bo given in next weeks 
Cnrnogie Tartan.
Gee, youre a Gem.
"Well, would Gillette me kiss-you?* 
"Say, kid, Im Everready."
Harvard Lampoon.
Father: "Ive told you time and
again not] to see that, young man, 
and now for the last time I tell 
you not to have any tiling to do with 
him.
She (sobbing): "Oh, father. I
want Jack, I do wqjit Jack.*'
Father: "All ri^ct Heres a hun
dred dollars, but .emember what I 
said.
TACKLING TECH IS 
NEW STUDENT GUIDE
Contains Excellent Advice 
For Tackling Technical 
School Life
A book that is different, one in a 
class by itself, written by Laurence 
Wickes Cbnant, has just recently 
come from the press and as yet has 
not found its way to the class of in
dividuals for whom it was intended. 
Tackling Tech reads with the interest 
of fiction yet it is made up of facts; 
and though it contains as much of 
value as twenty average text books it 
is not to be confused with a modern 
text book.
The writer of this article in com
mending the book has but one regret, 
namely: that he had to begin his col
lege work at Carnegie and go through 
nearly four years without having been 
acquainted with a book of the nature 
of Tackling Tech.
Statements as The same would be 
done in the case of H2S04; and so 
on for other similar cases and "It 
is part of a mans education to call 
upon and go out with girls during his 
college course, all under one cover 
should convince one of the variety of 
material included by Mr. Conant in 
his successful endeavor to put before 
the student entering and attending a 
technical school, a program that will 
insure a successful college career.
Included in the book are articles on 
"Preparing for an Education, How 
to Concentrate, "How 'to Pass 
Exams, "Health and Energy, "Ac
tivities, "Financing an Education 
and The Other Things in Life.
The book was written primarily for 
the benefit of the student at Carnegie 
and other similar institutions. It was 
written with the aid of members of 
the administration of several tech
nical schools and the writer, in his 
acknowledgement makes mention of 
several Carnegie Tech men.
Owing to its recent appearance, 
there are perhaps few at Carnegie 
who have been fortunate enough to 
benefit from the book. It is worth 
its weight in gold and a copy of it 
should become the property of every 
underclassman now attending school, 
for it deals with every phase of col
lege life in a technical school, not 
from the viewpoint of an individual 
but from the experience of others who 
have gone before.
CARNEGIE PHYSICISTS
DISCUSS RECENT WORK
(Continued From Page One) 
to ascribe yet to a definite element. 
More accurate knowledge of the wave 
lengths should aid in this identifica
tion. Astonishing accuracy can be 
obtained in the measurement of wave 
lengths, namely less than one part in 
a million. j
At the meeting of January 26 Dr. 
Mayo D. Hersey, Physicist at the 
Pittsburgh station of the United 
States Bureau of Mines, spoke on re
search problems in lubrication. The 
meeting was well attended, there be
ing present representatives from the 
chemical and mechanical engineering 
departments of Carnegie and from 
Westinghouse Research Laboratory. 
The subject of lubrication is evident
ly a very live topic. The lecturer 
showed tho advantage of the Kings
bury type of bearing. Charts and 
slides were shown that indicated 
among other things, tho variation in 
viscosity of a number of mineral and 
animal oils with the temperature and 
pressure. Somo of these viscosity 
measurements were carried out at 
pressures of more than three thou
sand atmospheres, or over 40,000 
pounds per square inch. The viscos
ity was measured by noting the time 
taken for a metal ball to roll down 
an inclined plane containing the oil. 
The presssres were measured by 
means of manganin resistance gauges. 
The packing used to prevent leaks 
was a special type, that tends to be
come tighter as the pressure is in
creased.
There will be no meeting of the 
Physics Colloquium during inspection 
week. The next meeting will be held 
on Tuesday, February 13, at 4:30 p. 
m., in 113 Science. It is expected that 
Mr. Staley of the Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie College will speak. All in
terested are invited.
CAMPUS WEEK PLANS BEGIN
TO TAKE ON DEFINITE SHAPE
(Continued From Page One.) 
real celebration, and the manner in 
which this has been done in the 
past clearly showed that Carnegie 
Tech has wonderful abilities along 
this line.
Events of every nature will be 
held, dances, track meets, tennis 
matches, May Day celebration, 
sweepstakes, vaudeville show, drama 
productionall of these happenings 
in such rapid succession, one upon 
the other, that from the time the 
celebration starts Wednesday night, 
May 23, until midnight, Saturday 
night, May 26, there will be no rest 
periods except that time used to 
sleep, which, by the way, will be 
cut down to the minimum. Itll be 
just one good time after another. 
Therell bo more good time packed 
inside three days than youd think 
possible. Youll say after it is all 
over: Mi-gosh, but I had a wonder
ful time!" And itll be no lie either!
Managers Pete ICrelstlo and Don 
Williams of teunis and track, re
spectively, are busily engaged in 
rounding out suitable matches and 
meets, good enough to be in keeping 
with the greatness of Campus Week.
Watch the columns of the Carne
gie Tartan and Pittsburgh papers for 
developments of the greatest Campus 
Week for Carnegie Tech YET.
Roses are red,
Violets blue;
Horses neck.
Do you?
Rensselaer Polytechnic.
COMMONS ORIGINATED THINK THIS OVER FOLKS 
IN EASTERN COLLEGES THE BAND NEEDS YOU
Doubtless, many have wondered 
just how and why the new campus 
cafeteria came to be called the Car
negie Commons. The name Com
mons came into use many years ago 
In the colleges of the northeast, as an 
eating place on the campus. Since 
that time the appellation has remain
ed, and today is almost universally 
used by colleges and universities of 
the United States. In the early days 
Freshmen at most institutions were 
required to eat all their meals at a 
campus dining room. Such a place 
began to be looked upon as a sort of 
common ground for the students, and
"Its a great ideain line with our 
traditionan inspiration to the stu
dents. Any man winning a place on 
the band should be proud of his kilts. 
Pride in organization is a wonderful 
help in accomplishment  Carnegie 
will have one of the best student 
bands in the country.
These are the hurried jottings of a 
busy man, but they embody the idea 
of a band really representative of 
Carnegie Tech.
Read each thought over carefully, 
think about it, then act. Make your 
check payable to G. L. Tilbrook, 
Treasurer, and mark it "Kilties.
the name has been handed down to Your name will appear on  the list 
the present time. below which gives the contributors
We believe that any name, other for the last two weeks: 
than beanery would have been wel-1 Charles C. Wright, J. S. Rowe, R. 
corned long ago by the students, prowArnold, Julius Foster, Anonymous, 
vided there was sufficient cause foF ^irsW. E. Douglas, Tom Shea, Mildropping the old name.
Radio Engineering 
A Liberal Education
By E. F. W. Alexanderson, Chief 
Engineer, Radio Corporation of 
America.)
An eminent specialist on adminis
tration told me once that all execu
tives should have engineering train
ing. This has not been possible in 
the past, but it is becoming possible 
now, because the scientific education 
of our engineering schools and insti
tutions produces trained minds which 
have been found to have superior 
qualifications in all positions.
It is true that engineering is a 
part of a liberal education, alongside 
of mathematics and Latin, it is par
ticularly; true of electrical engineer
ing, and I venture to say that of all 
branches of electrical engineering, 
radio engineering has the greatest 
educational value. To prove this 
thesis I should like to point out 
some of the interesting aspects of 
radio engineering.
A technical subject, to have an eddred Spencer, H. L. Spencer, Philip 
Friedman, J. P. Davis,- Lindsay Rock
well, Robert Sclimertz, Harry Aspinwall, Charley Sorber, Mildred Floyd, 
Comly Maule, Andrew Isles, E. Rosenswag, E. Rosenstein, H. H. Westerman, Bill McQuillan, Brady McSwigan, Henry DeWolf, Paul Schweinberg, H. D. Watterson, Ben Kartub, L. L. Nusbaum, A. D. Jenner, 
Emaline J. Phillips, George W. Stahlman, Mary M. Young, Milton S. 
Wadsworth.
Faculty Dancing Class 
Gives Valentine Dance
The Faculty Dancing  Class will 
hold a Valentine Dance in the Union 
on Tuesday evening, February 13, at 
ight-thirty. The. Pitt Faculty Danc
ing Class will be the guests of the 
Tech class.
The Tartan orchestra has been en
gaged, that combined with special 
favor dances and refreshments, as
sures the club of an enjoyable even
ing.
Any member of the faculty or ad
ministration, not a member of the 
club, will be most cordially welcomed.
 , . , ., . , A tax of one dollar and fifty centsucational value, should have theoretichas been assessed. This may be paid
al, practical and human aspects.
From a theoretical point of view, 
radio engineering has extraordinary 
possibilities. It presents a set of 
phenomena of the most varied na 
ture, all of which are capable of ex
act and logical analysis. Wave mo
tion1 in space, wave motion in wires, 
absorption of energy in a semf-conducting ground under an anetenna; 
oscililating circuits, electronic dis
charge in vacuum under the influ' 
ence of electric and magnetic fields; 
the behavior of iron in a high fre
quency magnetic field, etc., almost 
ad infinitum.
The practical aspects of radio en
gineering are no less numerous, and 
so well known that they need not be 
mentioned specifically. In relation 
to the experimenter and educator, the 
practical aspect of the technique has, 
however, a greater significance than 
in any other branch of engineering 
Other theoretical experimenters must 
work under artificial conditions in a 
laboratory, whereas the radio experi
menter is in touch with the ultimate 
realities. He has the whole world 
for his laboratory, and therein he 
may choose at will what assistance 
he desires for his various experi
ments.  He may mingle with his fel
lows in the vagaries of short-wave 
work, and he may reach out over the 
continent some night -with his own 
transmitter, even spanning the At
lantic when all conditions happen to 
bo in his favor.
He majyi prefer to gather in the 
free speech that, so appropriately, 
is available in this country of ours, 
and, by enlarging the tiny incoming 
words to giant size, lie can fill a 
huge hall with the whispers of some* 
one hundreds of miles away. He may 
listen to the ships dotting the ocean,1 
or he may ohoose the longer wave1 
lengths till the giant voices which 
talk from land come to him and he 
hears a dozen countries talking to 
each other. The inspiring thought 
comes to him after a time that the 
majority of them speak his own lan
guage.
Over every field' of human endeav
or stretches the field of the radio 
transmitter. In an airplane speeds 
a young radio engineer, testing out 
some new form of radio compass, or 
a newly developed transmitter".
On land, he learns the fascinations 
of the railroad world, as he talks 
from the Twentieth Century Limited 
to some distant signal tower. He 
joins hands with the entertainers of 
the world as he speeds their joyous
ness through the medium of the 
broadcasting station, to lonely homes 
afar.
He mingles with the telephone en
gineers, in their orderly mazes, as 
he sends the wired word by wireless. 
In the huge transoceanic stations he 
sees all the solidity and order of 
any other power station.
At sea, ha instaRs a telephone ra
dio seft and calls up Land Central 
to plug him in to some local desk 
telephone in a city in the Middle 
West.
Even under the sea, he listens in 
on the loop antenna of a submerged 
under-water craftfi and catches the 
orders of the flagship above.
Tho radio engineer is one of the 
most broadminded of the entire en
gineering fraternity, beoause he meets 
with, and exchanges ideas with so 
many other engineers of divergent 
callings, in the pursuit, of his daily 
task.
at the door. Those who can attend 
will please notify H. K. KirkPatrick.
TRAVEL MADE EASY
' Courteous clerks who 
know every lane of travel 
the world over are at your 
disposal at our Steamship 
Department. Select your 
destination and we will do 
everything In our power 
to help you reach It In 
comfort and safety.
Mellon National Bank
Oliuer^lue.& Smiihfield

Start the f 
Week Right f
Church on Sunday 
puts new pep into Mon* 
day, Tuesday, Wednesf. 
daytill Sunday conies $ 
again. Try it and see. ?V
Oakland Methodist | 
Church |
FORBES AND f
BOQUET |
*:*
Fifty steps from the :j: 
campus
Bellefield Presbyterian 
Church
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues. 
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN,
D. D., Pastor.
Sabbath School ......... 9:45 A.M.
College Mens Bible
Class ...........................10:00 A.M. :
Preaching service ... 7:00 P.M. 
Christian Endeavor
Societies ................... 7:00 P.M. :
Preaching Service ... 8:00 P.M. 
WELCOME! TECH STUDENTS
LINES FROM
FAMOUS UNITARIANS
"Most men do not know that 
any nation but the Hebrew have 
had a Scripture.
HENRY DAVID PHOREAU.
FIRST UNITARIAN CHURCH
Morewood and Ellsworth 
Avenues 
L. WALTER MASON, Pastor
SUMMER WORK
THE NATIONAL SURVEY
Lithographic Works......................Philadelphia, Pa.
Topographical Offices.................. Chester, Vermont
Western Office.................................Cleveland, Ohio
For particulars see 
NATHAN LEEBOV, 322 ATWOOD STREET 
KARL KORMAN

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THRfct
State Cagers Out Toss Plaid 
Quintet For 38-29 Victory
Johnny Reed Stars For Penn. pjay (JrQve
State By Scoring 22 Points 
Anderson and Gibson Lead 
in Tartan Floor Work
Too much Mr. Reed was the de- ciding factor in Penn States victory 
over the Plaid quintet last Saturday 
night. Johnny Reed played a beauti
ful game of basket ballhe was dan
gerous at all times and had an un
canny ability of dropping in baskets 
' xrom any angle of the floor.
The game was exceptionally fast 
throughout both halves. In the first 
half our boys had State buffaloed. At 
one time the score stood 5 to 9, 
favor Carnegie. The score zig-zagged 
through the first half being tied on 
several occasions and finally when 
the first ialf ended it stood 17 to 
14, favor State.
The Tartans started oil with a rush 
in the second half and brought up 
the score to 20 -all. However, Jimmy 
Anderson and Gibson were guarded 
so. closely that they always had 
someone hanging on them while 
shooting. Jimmy especially, was 
guarded so closely that he couldnt 
get the chance to ring up his usual 
number of baskets. Nevertheless be 
made up for this by doing excellent 
work at shooting fouls.
In about the middle of the second 
half State put into play an offense 
that was beautiful to watch. The re
sult of this offense generally result
ed in Johnny Reed getting near Car
negie's basket. By the aid of this 
play State penetrated our five man 
defense several times and took the 
lead.
Carnegie Tech had more chances 
at the basket than State but the boys 
werent up to their regular form in 
dropping them in. Without Reed it 
probably would) have been another 
story, for he rang up 22 of States 
38 points.
There is one thing that we can 
heartily congratulate our team on 
and that is the fact that they WILL 
NOT LAY DOWN. No matter what 
the score happens to be they are al
ways in the game with the same old 
fight and spirit which is typical of 
Carnegie Tech athletes. They fight 
until the last whistle blows.
Anderson was the high point scorer 
for Carnegie Tech, making 17 of our 
29 points. Gibson put in two field 
goals and played a whale of a defen
sive game. Mohrman and Donahue 
also played fine games. Our team 
played with a new combination in 
this game. Mefort was at center, 
Mohrman and Gibson at guards, and 
Anderson and Donahue, forwards.
Penn State38, Carnegie29.
Gerhardt ...............P............... Anderson
Reed ........................P............. Donahue
Shair .......................C...................... Mefort
Loeffler ..................G............. Gibson
Koehler ...............G............... Mohrmann
Field goalsReed 6, Gerhardt 3, 
Shair 3, Loeffler, Koehler, Anderson 
2, Donahue 2, Mefort 2, Gibson 2.
Foul goalsReed, 10 out of 13; 
Anderson, 13 out of 18.
SubstitutionsMotter for Donahue, 
Donahue for Motter.
RefereeDan Daugherty.
UmpireMarty Weitzel.
Nervous Frosh (in English, stroking 
his chin:) This is the forest pri
meval.The Black and White.
arnif
O VTCIYKS,FCD
and other Metal Pencils
THE name VENUS is your 
guarantee of perfection. 
Absolutely crumble-proof, 
i smooth and perfectly graded. 
7 DEGREES
2B soft &C black H med. hard 
B soft 2H hard
F firm 4H extra hard
HB mediumfor general use 
15c per tube of 12 leads;$1.50 per dozen tubes 
Ifyour dealer cannotsupply you write us.
American Lead Pencil Co.
215 Fifth Ave., Dept. , New York 
Ask us about the new 
VENUS EVERPOINTED PENCILS
City and Allegheny
Games Scheduled For Fri 
and Sat. Nights8:30
Where?the Field House.
When?Friday and Saturday even
ings, February 9 and 10.
Wlio?-:Grove Citiyi and Allegheny 
College.
What Time?S:30 p. m.
A preliminary game between the 
fast Plebe team andi the team from 
Duquesne Prep -will precede the 
Varsity game on Friday evening. The 
Yearlings have made a remarkable 
showing in every contest so far this 
season and their style of play is 
most gratifying to the spectators.
Grove City College, contenders for 
Western Pennsylvania basket ball 
championship will face the Plaid 
quintet in the first of a two-game 
series. Friday evening at 8:30 p in.
The Crimson floormen from Grove 
City will enter this game with a1 
clean slate, _ having conquered such 
teams as Pitt, West Virginia, Du
quesne and Bethany. Coach Bob 
Thorns proteges have been so used 
to cleaning up on their opponents 
that they can not see anything 
ahead but a complete list of victo
ries. The five men he has been 
using to' efficiency  are: Hartman
and Smith, forwards; Fay, center, 
and Fleming and Shorts, guards.
Allegheny College cagers likewise 
will play the first of a two-game 
series with the Skibo at the Field 
House Saturday evening, February 
10. The Meadville delegation always 
has a strong team and if they con
tinue to play the brand of basket 
ball as they displayed in the previou games against Pitt and West Vir
ginia there is no doubt but what 
Captain Millers light and fast five 
will prove to be a langerous obstacle 
for Coach Lubics men to overcome.
ARTISTS WILL KAPER IN
EGYPT, FRIDAY NIGHT
(Continued From Page One.) 
strange scales, or feathered with blue 
and gold.
The revellers in their beautiful 
head dresses move like pillars of 
ebony, like clouds of amber. Sud
denly the heralds blow their trum
pets. The moment has come.
Pharaoh assumes the place of 
honor, with his priests; the nobles 
follow, the generals, the soldiers, the 
musicians and dancing girls, the cap
tive kings and queens, the slaves. 
Pharaoh paces slowly to his throne; 
he ascends the velvet steps; he 
opens his arms, and combining in 
his single person the warrior, the 
priest, the God, he blesses his peo
ple.
The trumpets blow again. The 
multitude shout: The priests crown
him with a golden wreathPharaoh, 
incarnation of fate, and great lord of 
love and death.
The general committee for the Arts 
Ball is headed by Carl Landefeld with 
Richard Reed as assistant chairman, 
I-Ioffer Sload as secretary. Earl 
Gross as treasurer, and Vincent Roy 
as assistant treasurer.
That girl reminds me of an ocean 
liner.
Why?
Because just a little tug will get 
her started.Exchange.
FOR
The Student
STAG TROUSERS
. AND A
SWEATER COAT
MAKE A
COLLEGE SUIT
FOR
EVERY DAY
Exclusive Oakland Dealers for 
Stag Trousers.
Davies & Hughes
OAKLANDS MEN'S STORE 
3615 FORBES STREET 
Next to Strand Theater.
*
*
*
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
Varsity Floormen of 1922-23 SeasonJIMMY ROBERTSON ELECTED 
CAPTAIN OF FOOTBALL TEAM
Hugh Sprinkle to Graduate. 
New Election Necessary. 
Robertson Also Baseball 
Letter Man
Sitting, left to rightNewman, Anderson, Matter, Bell (Captain), Gibson, Goodwin, Jackson, McCaw. 
Standing, left to rightBert Munhall, trainer; Coach Lubic, Mohrman, Miller, Mefort, Reiter, Donahue, Man
ager Keller, Dr. Marks, Assistant Manager Bittner.
On the Plaid Screen
By H. H. WILSON
RECALLING
That last Friday was the day when the proverbial groundhog sees his 
shadow, it occurred to us that the new gym was not in a position to see its 
shadow, for a mighty important reason. That reason is that the gym isnt 
there to produce a shadow.
In the first place the structure was supposed to have been completed by 
the fall of 1922 and. then they promised that the ground breaking would take 
place last month but still the student body is patiently waiting. The old
red house has passed into history, the cellar and walls gape vacantly at the
sky and we hear murmurings from the virgin soil that it desires some ac
tivity.
Theres 110 reason under the sun that we can see that should hold up 
progress on the building which Carnegie Tech most urgently needs. Tho 
plans should have been completed long ago, the contracts let and the work 
gotten under way without all this quibbling and unnecessary differences over 
the minor details. That old crook "graft" always seems to sneak in on any
big project but we hope that such is not the case in this matter.
There must be sand in the machinery somewhere and the sooner it is 
cleaned out and things running smoothly, the sooner will we have a real 
gymnasium. Come on, Administration, lets go! The new gym by the fall 
of 192... That's something we cant predict.
HARD FOUGHT GAME 
DROPPED TO KISKI
Visitors Are Outplayed in 
Second Half. Win Game 
in Extra Period 29-27
OLYMPICS FOR THE GREEKS
Ancient Greeks held their annual athletic contests in olden days and 
today we find the modern Greeks engaging in contests of one kind or another. 
In the past basket ball has been the main field of endeavor among tho fra
ternities but there are other lines which may be taken up, chief among which 
is track.
Track is a sport in which no previous experience is required. Many a 
man has come to collego without ever having set foot on a cinder track and 
then has blossomed forth into a crack runner. To foster this idea and bring 
out the inexperienced men would be one of the important advantages of 
Inter-fraternity track and field meets. The plan Is practiced at a number of 
universities and colleges and would work well at Carnegie. Ono or two 
events a week could be run off at the Hunt Armory which would make tho 
affair less strenuous than if all the events were held at ono time.
If Carnegie Tech would produce better track teams, this is an important 
means to the end. The events would surely provide some thrills, for when 
"Greek meets Greek on the track the cinders would fly.
CAGING THE LION
Was more of a job than tho Skibo tossers anticipated and speaking In 
carnivorous terms, the Lions all but devoured the Scotchmen. The Plebo 
quintet made a braver showing than the varsity in forcing the KiskI boys 
into an extra flve minute period. They deserve much credit despite tho defeat.
Johnnie Reed sure Is a clever shooter both from the floor and the foulline.
FINE WORK, KILTIES
In spite of the cauld blasts, a small aggregation of our famous kiltie band 
was on hand to make music and cheer tho crowd at tho State game. They 
are showing the right spirit by making an appearance at these games but it 
seems as though tho management could provide some better moans of Hom
ing them. Sully Is an energetic loader and Is always on hand with his silvery cornet.
AND STILL WE DONT KNOW WHAT THE FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
BRIGHTNESS AT TECH ON 
CLOUDY DAY FRIGHTENS 
DARING GROUNDHOG AWAY
Flowers for Every Occasion
Gift Boxes 
Corsages 
Plants 
Decorations
Tech students will flnd that our prices are in keeping with the quality 
and service.A. W. Smith Company
LIBERTY AT SIXTH AVENUE PENN AT STANWIX STREET
Phone Smithfield 327.
Delivered anywhere in United States or Canada.
Former Carnegie Student 
Strongest of Midshipmen
Of interest to all Carnegie Tech 
men is the news from the United 
States Naval Academy at Annapolis, 
that Louis J. Vodila of McKeesport 
finished the official strength tests at 
the head of the list. Vodila was 
student in the College of Engineering 
last season, and was appointed to the 
Naval Academy from the Marine 
Corps. He is now a first-year mid
shipman.
His total score in the contests was 
7,345 points against 7,185 of Wendell 
S. Taylor, the football end, -who up to 
this time had stood at the top. Ar
thur W. Lentz, the football guard, 
also topped Taylors record with 7,- 
235 points. These scores show that 
Vodila is the strongest man at the 
Naval Academy.
Vodila has taken no part in ath
letics, chiefly because he did not en
ter the academy until late in Septem
ber and escaped the culling out which 
is an important part of the summers 
routine. Now, however, the different 
coaches are looking him up, rowing 
and wrestling being regarded as 
sports for which he is particularly 
fitted. He weighs 181 pounds and is 
an even inch over 6 feet in height.
(Continued from Page One) 
smile, for all had flunked! The 
groundhog saw his shadow. He strove 
"toward the side door and got out just 
in time to prevent Geek from asking 
him what a sine was. He didnt be
lieve in signs.
Frightened again, he streaked away 
across to the Science Building, where 
he met the combined delegation of 
Physics, Chemistry and Drawing 
Profs. They were going to the Cen
tral Building and each carried a smile 
and a long roll of paper under his 
arm, which contained the lists of 
flunking student inscribed therein.
One look was enough for Mr. Ground
hog. He scurried put through the up
perclassmen entrance and hastened 
towards the nearest dark opening that 
he could find.
Brer Groundhog could think only 
of getting into some dark place 
where he could not see his shadow.
He ran down Woodlawn avenue as 
fast as he could carry himself. The 
darkest place he could see ahead was 
the Margaret Morrison building and 
he hastened to it.
Inside, he ran down the corridor 
until it began to get darker as he ran 
through a doorway. But, alas! He 
did not stop. He plunged into the 
Library, where a shining brilliance 
made him stop and turn to^run the 
other way . The room was full of Se
nior girls who were taking an exam1 nation. Brer Groundhog ran outside 
and again looked wearily for a dark 
place to hide.
The nearest thing that caught his 
eye was the Freshman entrance to 
the College of Fine Arts. It looked 
dark inside. As he proceeded along 
the interior, he thought that he was 
at last getting to a place of safety.
Turning a corner, he ran into a light, m.i.
that almost blinded him. It was the ] Upper Classman-How many subDean, interviewing six would-be Arts; JectB Er0 you carrying, 
students that were seeking admission. [ FreshmanI m carrying two and
Poor frightened groundhog! He ran dragging threc.-Green and White, 
out the rear door, and hastened back
to his home in the park. Did he see j 0116 S,rl yells to an<Hherthe sun? Of course not; it was nothis my mail?" ^
ing in comparison with the things he The other girl He's over in front
] of the library.Green and White.
Putting up one of the best games 
played by a Carnegie Plebe team in 
years, the Freshmen went down to 
defeat at the hands of tho highly 
touted Kiski outfit only after an extra 
five-minute period had been played, 
the final scoro boing 29-27. The 
gamo was played In tho Carnoglo gym 
Saturday evening as a preliminary to 
tlio? Varslty-Ponn Stato battio.
Tho Klsld team came to this plac 
with a big reputation, as tho Saltsburg school boasts of ono of tho best 
teams in their history. They liavo 
lost only ono game this season, but 
for a time Saturday night it lookod as 
though they wore in for their second 
dofoat, as the Tartan Plobes woro in 
a fighting mood, and throughout tho 
second half of tho fracas had played 
tho visitors off their feet. Only a 
long shot from past tho middle of tllo 
floor by Wild In the closing moments 
of tho extra flvo-mlnuto porlod onablod tho prop school boys to walk off 
with the bacon.
At tho ond of tho first quartor 
Kiski led 5 to 1, and tho end of tho 
first half found thorn loading 15 to 7. 
It seomod tho Plobes could not got 
well started. During tho second half, 
however, tho Tartan youngsters camo 
Into their own and gained rapidly on 
their opponents. Just as tho whistle 
blow ending tho second half with tho 
Plobes trailing Kiski three points. 
Amans caged ono from tho mlddlo 
of the floor; at tho samo time ho was 
foitlod by a visiting player. Amans 
also shot tho foul and tho gamo was 
doad-lockod at 2(1 all. It lookod like 
a victory for tho Freshmon, as they 
had been outplaying tho visitors 
tho second half and showing moro 
fight, but Kislcl again camo to the 
front in tho extra porlod, winning by 
two points.
Tho entlro Plobo team put up a 
wondorful exhibition of tho passing 
game, and their spectacular and excltr 
Ing plays frequently brought tho largo 
crowd to their foet. Goodwin and 
Amans,. however, bore the brunt of 
the battle both on the offense and de
fense, the former having six field 
goals and the latter three. Wild and 
Edwards did the best work for the 
visitors.
The lineup:
Plebes27 Klsld29
Amans.................... F......................Edwards
Reiter.................... F............................Smith
Goodwin................ C................................Hail
Jackson................ G..........................Garver
Burt......................... G....................Vucmanlc
Substitutions  Tech  Cook for 
Goodwin, Goodwin for Cook, Cook for 
Goodwin; Eddie for Reiter, Reiter for 
Eddie. KiskiWild for Smith, Smith 
for Hall, Hall for Smith. Field goals 
CarnegisjGoodwin G, Amans 3, 
Reiter. KiskiWild 4, Garver 2, Ed
wards 2, Hall. Free throwsCar
negieAmans, 1 out\ of 4; Jackson,
6 out of 7; Reiter, 0 out of 2. Kiski 
Edwards, 6 out of 10; Wild 3, 
out of 5; Garver, 2 out of 5. Referee 
Marty Wsitzel; umpire, Dan Dough
erty.
With tho certainty that Hugh Sprin
kle, captaiu-elect of the 1923 football 
team, would graduate this year and 
therefore bo unable to enter the next 
gridiron campaign, it became neces
sary to elect another man to lead the 
Plaid eleven. At a special meeting 
of the football letter men, Jimmy 
Robertson was made the recipient of 
this high honor.
The electoral group met on Thurs
day, January 25. All but two of tho 
letter men were present. Thoy cast 
their ballots, ana then prepared to 
wait for tho announcement of tile rosult. Tho balloting was handled by 
Jimmy Anderson, who took th<? slips 
of paper, put them in an envelope, 
sealed the envelope, and turned it 
over to Buddy Overend.
Don Potter, one of the two absent
ees, telegraphed in his voto, and Rod 
Godden, the other communicated with 
Buddy Ovorond in regard to his 
choice. With all votes in, tho en
velope was ready to bo opened and 
tho contents sorted and tabulated.
On Tuesday, then, tho votes woro 
taken to Doan Tarbolls office, tho envolopo opened and the will of the 
varsity concerning tho name of their 
noxt loader made known. As a re
sult, Jimmy Robertson will stop into 
tho captaincy and do his host to load 
his men of might through another I 
season of glory, adding to tho honor ( 
and traditions of Carnogio.
It is not nocessary to say much In 
these columns about Jimmy. Ills 
namo has boon broadcast throughout 
tho land and ho Is well known to all 
loyal alumni and students. Ills ac
tivities number more than football; 
ho was a star outfielder on tho base
ball team last, yoar and la a track 
athloto, although on account of base
ball ho has not hitherto boon ablo 
to oxhlbit his proAvoss on the cludor 
path.
Through Ills activities and loadorship, ho was, at tho ond of hIn Plobo 
yoar, honorod by election to tho 
Druids. Tho following yoar ho wan 
plodgod to Delta Skull, of which ho 
Is at present, an active member. Ho 
Is a mombor of Kappa Sigma, and Is 
a Junior In Sclenco, studying Metal
lurgy. Those who have followod tho 
fortunes of Carnegies football foam 
for tho last few years fool that'Rob
ertson Is a for. tun at 6 choice for the 
loadorshlp of tho squad, and wish 
him ovory succoss In his now respon
sibility.
TEACHERS OFFERED
8UMMER COURSES
(Ontlnuod From Pago Ono.) 
weeks' couirso In coal mining fill bo 
given from Juno 25 to July 20.
Mlmoograph shoots showing uunv 
mor program In each of tho colleges 
havo boon distributed to I ho teaohors 
and departments Copies may ho ob
tained at tho Registrar's Office, or 
at tho office of tho director of tho 
Summoi* Sosslon, Industries Building, 
Room 230 rB. All tho subjoctB which 
are offorod, show the hours ached 
oiled, and tho nuniibor of semester 
units of credit for each subject.
Tho fee for tho Summer Sostjlon, 
as explained on tho mimeographed 
shoots, are worlcodi out on tho /.one 
plan, and vary with tho total number 
of semester units carried. Tho genClosing Struggle.
"Theres a material difference," said 
the co-ed, as she compared the 
lengths of a fiapper skirt and a new 
style.The Crimson-White.
PegIf Id give you this dime, 
what would you do?
MacI'd drop dead.
PegWell, I've saved your life, 
The Teaser.
Lady: I want to see some grand 
pianos. Do you carry them?
Clerk: Madam, you flatter me. 
McGill Daily.
"Where
ANNUAL JUNIOR PROM
HELD AT SCHENLEY
(Continued from Page One) 
pies in attendancea record crowd. 
To the committee goes the honor of 
having given the most successful
Prom, of the sixteen.- The commit
tee In charge consisted of tho fol
lowing members: William H. Ryan,
chairman; Ernest A. Borglund, treas
urer; Frank M, Gore, secretary;
Charles N. Hollingsworth, 13111s Rob
ertson, Jay C. Sanford, Enos M. John
ston, Earl Gross, Vincent A. Roy.
The Nelson Maples .Orchestra
proved their worth and from nine un
til two provided the dancers with ex
cellent numbers. Tho encores were 
so numerous that fewer dances were 
played than originally scheduled. The 
quartette was one of the features of 
the evening.
The Junior Prom of the class of 
1924 will undoubtedly be one of the 
high spots of this years social cal
endar and will be a criterion for the 
Prom committee of future years.
CAPTAIN JIMMIE ROBERTSON
Panthers and Tartans 
Will Meet October 27
Enthusiasm High as Four 
Year Truce is Broken
eral tuition fee for class instruction 
is $25, $35 or .$45, depending on tho | something happening.
schedule. For the Summer Session 
in surveying, an instructional fee of 
$15, $9 and $6, will be charged, for 
the cou/rses of six, three and two 
weeks respectively.
In addition to Summer Courses 
given on our own campus, the De
partments of Music, Applied Arts 
and Painting and Illustration, will 
also give six courses on the campus 
of the University of Pittsburgh, for 
students, the major portion of whoso 
summer work is not in technical 
fields.
Mr. C. Valentine Kirby, director of 
Art of the State Department of Pub
lic Instruction will1 ne present during 
the first three weeks of July, and 
give a course in the history and prin
ciples of art education.
Footbnll is ovor on tho mind of tho 
soolcor of sports and ho Is always 
ready to look ovor past records or 
take a glimpse Into future prospects 
of tho team of his cholco.
Carnoglo men and womon and Carnoglo adhoronts for past yoars will 
suroly romombor how tho Pitt football 
team and students took delight In see
ing hoAV many years they could Itoop 
Carnoglo Teoli from ovon making m 
Hlnglo scoro In any grid gamo botween tho two Institutions.
As far back as 1907 and 1908 tho 
teams from tho unlvotslly on tho hill 
thon known as Western University of 
Pennsylvania, had games scheduled 
with tho Carnoglo Technical School 
team. In those days a touchdown 
counted only flvo points and a goal 
after touchdown, ono point. The 
first of those two contests was won 
by W. tl. P., (1-0, and tho second by a 
still larger scoro 22-0.
In 1009 tho W. U. P. changed HNS 
name to Unlvorslty of Pittsburgh but 
po gamo was arranged with them by 
Carnoglo until tho following season 
when Pitt rolled up a score of 85-0, 
tho highest ovor talllod against Skibo 
football warriors.
Not until 1914 did tho rnnnagomont 
of tho two growing Institutions wag 
nnothor battlo at Forbos Field, in 
1912 the Schonloy Park schools com
bined and booamo known under the 
present namo. Rules of the football 
gamo woro also somewhat changed 
Into much of the gamo as It Is now 
playod. Pitt again won by two touch
downs and doublod that scoro In 1915,, 
the following yoar.
Up until 1910, tho Carnoglo team 
hud roeolvod nothing but gooso eggs 
as their share of tho hard fought 
game, but with such men as Phil 
Marshall and Sunny Kesnor playing 
for the Plaid there was Bure to ho 
Tho Panther
HELP PUPPET WIN JUDGE
COLLEGE WITS CONTEST
(Continued fromPage One) 
at the regular contributors rates.
Give the material a college flavor. If 
Puppet gets two jokes from every stu
dent it should win the contest. Send 
contributions'care Puppet and leave | to pul.
team boasted of Bob Poelr, Jock 
Sutherland, Jimmie DeHart and PnA 
Seidel, but. even this team had a. 
struggle to take this 14-G game frow. 
the Skibos.
Wally Steffen had. a green squad 
to handle In 1917 while Pop Warners 
team was composed of veterans who 
piled up a total of 27 points againBt a 
shutout for Carnegie. Many of tho 
Seniors at Carnegie attended tho 
eventfpl game at Forbes Field in. 
1919. This game needs no review for 
it will please Carnegie students and 
officials to look upon the unpleasant 
occasion as past history now that re
lations have been renewed. At any 
rate the Warnerites held the long end 
of the score, 17-7.
Next fall enthusiasts will again see 
the two powerful gridiron forces 
meet at Forbes Field, ctober 27. Tho 
Panthers had heretofore reserved this 
date for Bucknell but this year Car
negie was given preference whilo 
Carnegie gave up Grove City in or
der to accept the opportunity to re
sume relationship, Every moans used 
by the students of both Institutions 
all rivalry on friendly rolikit at the Post Office. Lots Go!"
DELTA TAU DELTA GRANTS
CHAPTER AT CARNEGIE TECH
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
sides, displaying tho gold letters 
Delta Tau Delta on black enamel; 
abovo Is an oyo, below a crcseont, and 
In each corner a star. Tho colors of 
the fraternity are purple, gold and 
white. Tho pledge button la black 
and gold.
Ashes to Aohco Or Butt Mo No Butts.
Medical examiner investigating War 
Veteran: "Havo you any cars 
you?
War Veteran being investigated by 
Medical Examiner: *No. sir, but here 
are some cigarettes.
tionship and the gamo promises to 
be tho host over played in Pittsburgh.
He: "What would you think it, I 
stole ono sweet kiss?"
Sho: "Id my you. were like tho 
burglar who had a chance to got) 
$1,00 and took a dimo,
Fraternities wanting Dnnco Pro
grams, Favor, Stationery, Pillow Cov
ers, etc., should get prices from Sing
er Pen & Gift Shop.
ACORN STORAGE BATTERY 
COMPANY 
4521 FORBES ST., Near Craig. 
Phone Schenley 4545. 
pue paBjeqoay
Repaired.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1923
ALUMNI PAGE
M. M. Alumnae Party
February 12, 1923
Dinner at G :30 P. M. M. M. Restaurant. $1 per plate.
Dancing and Cards at 8:30 P. M. Ree. Hall. $1 per couple.
Mail checks, money orders or money for Dinner to Bernice J. 
Kruger, Carnegie Institute of Technology not later than Friday, 
February 9.
Money for dancing and cards will be collected at the Ree' Hall. 
COMB ON NINETEEN NINE, TEN, ELEVEN, TWELVE, 
THIRTEEN, FOURTEEN, FIFTEEN, SIXTEEN, SEVENTEEN, 
EIGHTEEN, NINETEEN, TWENTY, TWENTY-ONE AND TWO. 
THIS IS YOUR PARTY!
One must eat to live (if youre dieting, you can dance).
One must dance to keep graceful (if youre too old to dance, 
then play cards!).
Playing cards is said to develop the mind! and you may win a 
prize!YOU CANT LOSE 
DONT FORGET THE DATEFEBRUARY 12LINCOLN'S 
BIRTHDAY 
INVITE YOUR FRIENDS
ALUMNI OFFICE MAKES QUICK (AROUSED ALUMNUS Purpose of College
REPLY TO ALUMNUS LETTER Af DR.JESSREK
PITTSBURGH CLAN WILL STAGE 
BIG ATHLETIC LUNCHEON 
LETTER MEN OF TECH TO BE 
GUESTS OF HONOR
The Pittsburg Clan is staging an
other of those big athletic luncheons 
at the Fort Pitt Hotel Saturday, 
February 7, at 12:30, in the English 
 3ioom. Those who were in attend
ance at the one held last year will 
still retain fond memories of the de
lightful time they had.
The pictures of Techs 1922 footJball games will be shown as one oi 
the features and a hot sketch from 
the Drama School will be put on for 
the edification of all. It is. also 
planned to have a speaker of note to 
.give us a real live talk.
Plans are pretty well under way 
lor a most enjoyable luncheon and 
entertainment, and there will be sev
eral surprises in store for those 
who will bo present. It is hoped the 
number will be large for we dont 
want anybody to miss anything. We 
must have a big crowd out to make 
this the success it should be. Sev
eral of the trustees will attend, so 
come out and give them the evidence 
of your loyalty to Carnegie Tech.
Reserve February 17 in your cal
endar and notify A. J. Hynd, Alumni 
Office, that you are coming, as we 
must know how many we may count 
upon.
Every Alumnus and Alumna in the 
Pittsburgh district should feel it his 
or her personal duly to get as many 
others out to these Clan affairs as 
possible. All visiting Alumni are as 
welcome as the flowers In May. Lets 
all bo on hand with a good supply of 
the old Tech enthusiasm.
Como and bring another Tech man 
Trith you. Better yet, bring one of 
1he athletes a3 your guest and show 
him how we do things at oue of 
Techs live. affairs.
RememberFORT PITT HOTEL.
ENGLISH ROOM.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 
AT 1:00.
COME.
ANNUAL BANQUET OF NEW 
YORK CLAN GOES OFF IN 
GREAT STYLE  DR. BAKEF. 
SPEAKER OF THE EVENING
The Colonial Room of the McAlpin 
Hotel saw another one of those suc
cessful affairs which the New York 
Clan is constantly staging. This 
time it was the occasion of their an
nual banquet held Saturday evening, 
February 3.
It was a huge success from the 
start to the finish.
The decorations were Tech colors 
and pennants. The tables were soft3y lighted by candle light shaded
with 'yellow covered shades making 
the scene highly attractive.
As the guests and their hosts were 
being seated soft music was played 
by a four-piece orchestra which was 
all TECH talent picked up in some 
manner from the far comers of New 
York. The playing left nothing to 
be desired even though the various 
members had never played together 
before. Tech songs and claslcal mu
sic were interspersed throughout the 
evening.
After the dinner the Tech football 
films were shown and were well re
ceived, as the majority: of those pres
ent had not seen any of the 1922 
games. The new field excited no lit
tle comment, especially from those 
who had played on Tech's former 
hard clay field.
Dr. Baker gave a mighty fine talk 
on the work of the school and the 
various departments and touched at 
length on the new gymnasium, much 
to the delight of those present.
Dr. Bingham, who was in the East 
on a lecture tour, was able to be 
present and paint a word picture of 
Dr. Frediclt A. Keppel. Dr. Keppel 
wus recently elected as President of 
the Carnegie Corporation. Dr. Bing
ham was associated with Dr. Keppel 
at Coumbia University and in the 
War Department before coming t($ 
Tech and was able to give us a real 
picture of our future president.
Mr. S. G. Little, president of the 
Alumni Federation, came fro,m Pitts
burgh for the occasion to give us in
formation on what the federation is 
and has been doing and whaf is go
ing on at Tech. Particular stress 
was made on the gymnasium, the 
Policy Committee, the Student Coun
cil and Campus Week. All were urged 
to come to the Campus Week cele
bration assured that it would be big
ger and better than ever.
Mr. J. C. Hobbs, president of the 
Pittsburgh Clan, was also present, 
and) brought a message from Pitts
burgh, and livened the evening by a 
number of humorous stories.
This program was closed by the 
singing of the New Tech Alma Mater 
after which dancing was on the cards 
until midnight.
A number of members of the Phil
adelphia Clan and their wives were 
presont and helped make the evening 
enjoyable.
Possible Enjoyment.
Bligglns Is trying to be an opti
mist." The last time I saw him he 
thought everything was going to 
smash. He thinks so yet. But hes 
getting into a frame of mind that 
makes him suspect that maybe hell 
enjoy seeing it happen.Washington 
Star.
m a
H o ISahy Young Men Should
Consider Insurance Selling
^ Seven Reasons for Life Insurance Career
LlFE INSURANCE is founded on the 
highest ideals.
It is capable of yielding a good income and the 
satisfaction of accomplishment.
It offers opportunities for real leadership.
It brings insurance salesmen in close associa
tion with big business and big business men.
m
BS
It requires education in business methods, 
law and finance.
It is a field for workers, not shirkers.
It is an alluring and practical calling for men 
of dynamic energy.
m
m
In order not to assume any un
merited advantages, and in order to 
prevent any misunderstanding, Nit 
must be said in all justice to the 
writer of the article in the next col
umn, to which this is an answer, that 
h6 is, and lias always been not only 
an associate alumnus in good stand
ing in the Alumni Federation, but a 
most enthusiastic booster and worker 
for Carnegie Tech. He gets results, a 
conspicuous example being his organ
ization of the Norfolk Clan, of which 
he has always been the guiding influ
ence. In all his work for Carnegie 
Tech he takes a great delight and we 
believe that he cherishes in life heart 
a hope that his helpfulness to his 
Alma Mater will grow as the years go 
by. Would that we had a great many 
more like him.
(Some of the most loyal supporters 
and boosters of Carnegie Tech are 
former students who are now giving 
a great deal of their time and energy 
toward the Uccess of Tech affairs. 
Would' that we had a great many 
more of them!
Mr. Sands motive in defending the 
loyalty of the great body of former 
students Is very commendable be
cause, of that body, he is one of the 
comparatively small number who 
have given substantial and continual 
evidence of their loyalty to their 
Alma Mater. He is not defending 
himdelfl, because Jhe is not guilty. 
Not in the least bit!
The battle is on!
FirstWe regret the necessity of 
refuting the emphatic statement 
made by Mr. Sands, but the tables 
printed in the January 24 issue of 
the Carnegie Tartan over the signa
ture of the Alumni Treasurer DID, at. 
that date, represent the true condi
tion of the Alumni Federation.
Though the truth may hurt, it does 
us good to face itif we acknowl
edge it and react to it in a construc
tive manner.
We did not say nor did we imply 
that it represented "the true con
dition of the Interest taken in Tech 
affairs by ex-Tech men. It Is certain 
that such is not the case.
SecondYes, the Alumni office 
hopes you will believe the truth as 
it was depicted in the table.
We do not offer misinformation for 
publication. Nor do we have any 
reason to feel ashamed that the facts 
as published have or will meet the 
eyes of many other colleges and uni
versities in this country.
We fully believe that, taking every
thing into consideration, in this as 
in all other respects, C. I. T. will 
compare very favorably with any 
other college or university not only 
in this country but In the world.
The best is none too good for Car
negie Tech, whether it bo men, meth
ods, equipment, material or that in
tangible, ethereal something called 
spirit, or the manifestation of 
spirit, called in this particular case 
support of the alumni.
ThirdYes, we failed to say that 
our figures are compiled only from 
the actual graduates of Carnegie 
Tech, for such Is not the case, as the 
figures Include all alumni whether 
graduate or associatehonorary mem 
bers being exempt.
The percentage would not bo 
changed because It now takos into 
account all paid-up members, not di
vided into classes but included In the 
larger classification according to 
schools.
This will be seen from the fact 
that our unit of division is the school 
and not the individual class. It Is 
no doubt true that some particular 
class would present a better showing 
than the percentage indicated in the 
table giving the returns from that 
school to which it belongs, but it was 
not deemed necessary to divide them 
'into the smaller units.
In the College of. Engineering the 
associates of all classes from 08 to 
22, inclusive are represented by that 
number of associates who have paid 
their 22-23 dues, to-wit,  99 up to 
January 1, 1923.
These facts are more eloquent than 
any misinformation could be.
This may not be a good indication 
of the spirit of the whole body of as
sociates but It is the only barometer 
we have.
We know that no system can be 
made automaticwe expect to have 
to do our part, but about two years 
ago the Alumni Federation spent over 
three hundred dollars on a member
ship campaign in which all former 
students, whether graduates or not 
were exhorted to join the Alumni 
Federation.
Results? Yes, 50 former students 
enrolled, some of whom have since 
dropped by the wayside. Whose 
fault? The proposition should have 
sold itself, and should have stayed 
sold.
FourthThis charge is merely a 
repetition of that in the third section 
and has been answered. The per
centage list published was all-lncluslve.
FifthWe shall be glad to toll you 
you need not insistthat we can 
tell in what class a former student 
should be placed. Wo have It on rec
ord and all you need do is to write 
in for the information.
We have not deemed it necessary 
to increase our clerical force to the 
extent where it would bd sufficient to 
keep complete tables and records of 
this information.
No excuses are necessary.
We are glad to have the good points 
in the systems used by other colleges 
called to our attention. They can be 
incorporated in the system of our 
Alumni Federation if handled through 
the proper channels, and approved by 
that body. .
SixthWe do not say that the for
mer student is not interested in Car
negie Tech. We do say however that 
we believe we have a right to expect 
a larger number to manifest their in
terest.
A large percentage of former stu
dents are members of clans but are 
not members of the Alumni Federa
tion. Now, heres the point we want 
to drive home:
Those who join the clans and are 
not members of the Alumni Federa
tion are performing only part of their 
duty. They are gratifying their de
sire for pleasure and association with 
ones own kind and status, but only 
incidentally helping Carnegie. Their 
loyalty is primarily to the clan. The 
result is that interest is scattered, 
whereas it should be concentrated on 
and directed toward the Alumni Fed
eration. Or, to put it another wny, 
patriotism to the Alumni Federation 
should be the primary motive behind 
any expressions of interest, and the 
clan should be but one of the agen
cies for the manifestation of this loy
alty. Only when this becomes a fact 
will the Alumni Federation be truly 
representative of the entire body of 
Alumni.
Our efforts have always been di
rected toward making the Alumni 
Federation representative of the 
whole Alumni body.
The facts are these: The by-laws
of the Alumni Federation of C. I. T. 
Avhlcli have been approved and are 
now in force, state In Article XIII, 
Section 1: Any 10 members In good 
standing (in the Alumni Federation) 
living in the same locality nuly form 
a Carnegie Alumni Clan which shall 
become an integral part of the Feder
ation when such organization has 
been approved by the Federation 
Board.
These by laws of the Alumni Fed
eration wore published in the August, 
1921, Issuo of the C. I. T. Alumnus.
The by-laws proposod for the clans 
are published In a pamphlet, copies 
of which we believe have boon sent 
to all clans. They may bo obtained 
from the Alumni ofllco.
We have told the truth, and will 
tell the truth. Tho former studont 
has always meant a great deal to tho 
life of Carnegie Tech, but wo hopo 
that in the future ho will moan 
great deal more than ho doos now. 
it Is our duty to make him realize 
how much ho can moan if ho will act 
In concert with all tho others.
We hope that tho attitude of the 
Alumni office towards all former stu
dents whether graduates or not is 
now clear.
We do not dispense Insults, direct 
or Indirect, nor have we committed 
any sins of omission in representing 
the condition of affairs as they are.
It is our candid opinion that, as a 
whole, the former student is getting 
a square deal.
If the opinion of the former stu
dent is otherwise we shall be only 
too glad to correct matters In re
sponse to an appeal from a committee 
representative of the majority.
It is plainly evident that an educa
tional campaign is necessaryone 
which will reach everyone who has 
ever attended Carnegie Tecii.
For the information of those who 
are not members of the Federation 
membership may be obtained by mak
ing a check payable to G. L. Tilbrook, Treasurer. The amount of the 
check necessarily is determined by 
the following:
If a graduate, $4.00 if delinquent; 
52.00 for current year if not delin
quent.
If not a graduate, $4.00 if delin
quent and If you have ever previously 
joined the Federation; $2.00 if dellnDon't Read This" Column. 
Brings Spirited Come - 
Back From Virginia 5vy
The following letter was received 
by tho editor from ono of tho alumni 
in answer to the column headed 
"Dont Read This! in the issuo of 
last week:
Don't Read This Either.
Its an answer to what appeared in 
this column last week, and it is not 
written by the Alumni Olllce, and 
you'll be interested instead of 
"alarmed.
FirstThe table printed in last 
weeks issue over the signature of 
the Alumni Treasurer does not rep 
resout the true condition of tho Alum
ni Federation, nor does it represent 
the true condition of the Interest ta
ken in Carnegie Tech affairs by exCarnegie men.
SecondThe Alumni Ofilce would 
have you believe that only a very 
small percentage of Carnegie men 
are paid up members of the Associa
tion. They offer this mls-informatlon 
for publication knowing that "The 
Carnegie Tartan goes to many other 
colleges and universities in this coun
try.
ThirdThey fail to tell you that 
their figures are compiled only from 
the actual graduates or that the per
centage would be much larger if all 
of those who are "paid up were con
sidered with their respective classes.
FourthThey urge the ex-Carneglo 
man who was not fortunate enough to 
finish his course, to become a mem
ber of the Association and to exort 
his influence in behalf of the interest 
and'welfare of the school, and then 
they publish a table purporting to 
show that Carnegie Tech men take 
no interest in the activities of their 
former school, omitting to consider 
these very same men in the por centage list.
FifthThey will tell youif you 
ask and Iqslstthat they cannot tell 
in wlmt class a former student 
should be plnced. This Is their rea
son, but Isnt It a very poor excuse. 
Other colleges carry tho studont as 
of tho calendar years lie nttondod. 
and give him credit when ho is 
onough interested to belong to tho 
Alumni Association. Why cant wo 
do tho samo?
SixthWill tho Alumni Ofllco toll 
you that tho so-called former stu*donts" are not Intorosted? Will they 
tell you how many of tho clans listed 
at tho foot of this pago wero organ
ized without the assistance of tho 
ronograde, not-to-bo-remomborod, non 
accredited formor student? Will 
they tell you that the formor stu 
dent moans nothing to tho llfo of 
Carneglo Tech?
It would bo exceedingly Interesting 
to all Carnoglo Tochs formor stu
dents, many of whom receive tho 
Tartan rogularly, and perhaps amus
ing and ontertnlnlng ns well to soo 
the Alumni Office again broalc Into 
print, but this tlmo for tho purpoBQ 
of stating their attitude toward tho 
men who for various roasons wero 
prevented from completing tholr rospoctlvo coursos, but who still and 
always will havo tho Intorost of Car
noglo Toch at heart, not bolng dotorred even by tho Indirect Insults 
and intendod oversights In roprosentatlon by tho Alumni Ofllco.
Let the Alumni Office tell us wheth
er it is their candid opinion that the 
former student is getting a square 
deal?
BILLY SANDS,
One of those who attended Caregie Tech, '08, 09, 09, 10, '10, '11. 
Norfolk, Va., Jan. 26th, 1923.
To Train Intellect
Woodrow Wilson Stresses 
Need For Seriousness
While he was sorving as President 
of Princeton University, Woodrow 
Wilson made tho significant state
ment that tho primary purpose of a 
college or university is to train tho 
intellect. Ho was careful to explain 
that such training need not bo along 
purely logical and formal lines, but 
rather that the intellect should bo 
prepared to moot and solve tho prob
lems of life, which in themselves aro 
largely illogical. Although the col
leges are still fundamentally in good 
health there is need for a continual 
stressing of this proper tone which 
should dominate these institutions of 
learning.
The last few years have soon the 
life of many colleges turn from tho 
drab and impractical aspect of the 
old academic existence to tho hurlyburly speed and excitement of those 
modern days. There is a tendency 
for the pendulum to pass the medium, 
middle of tho road point and carry 
the college and its studonts further 
away from the intellectual viewpoint. 
This is tho natural result of tho ago.
Can it bo possible that tho college 
in the enthusiasm of Its material am
bitions and in tho prosperity of its 
endowment fund is ovorlooklng tho 
primary purpose of its existence? The 
college advertises with pride Its new 
buildings, or its clubs, or Its financial 
solidarity, but does it ofton stross tho 
fact that its studonts are tho most 
studious and that Its graduates aro 
tho host scholars? Studont actlvltlos, 
athletics and social functions aro val
uable parts of collogo llfo, to tho 
samo dogroo that a propor amount of 
diversion and pleasure is osBontlal to 
the well-being and happiness of any 
man or woman; hut, In tho final an
alysis, thoso aro only sldo lssuos that 
aro usoful to tho extent that thoy 
aid tho training of tho intellect.
Tho problem naturally rosolvos Itsolf into a question of proportion. Is 
the collogo sorving its propor func
tion If studonts dovoto oight weeks 
mainly to ultra-curricula actlvltlos 
and utilizo tho last two or throo In 
"cramming and boning for examina
tions?
Collogo officials aro attempting to 
moot and doBtroy this usurping influ
ence In collogo llfo by tho promulga
tion of paternal rulos and regulations 
which aro aimed at curtailing tho stu
dent's freedom and forcing his con
duct along tho straight and narrow 
path of scholastic ondoavor. Tho stu
dents social affairs and actlvltlos aro 
suporvlsod.; ho Is deprived of tho use 
of his own automobile; ho Is onrnoshod In a confusion of rulos, tolling 
What ho may do and what he may not 
do. Tho result usually 'proves that 
too much regulation Is loss doalrabl 
than none at all.
LATEST STYLES
FORMAL DRESS 
At Lowest Price 
In City
$3-50
Dress Suit Rental 
Company
404 PITTSBURGH LIFE 
BUILDING 
PhoneSmlthflold 294
A complete line of the 
most beautiful patterns 
ever assembled.
C. A. Heimert
3614 FORBES STREET 
Whore ALL The Students Go.
MGLEYS
and give your stomach a Hill.
TWOHCRNI DSYCN ,CF OY 
BUN7199 12 beneficial 
SOW3A
PNYMf FO NYN22fN 
YYCN FNNSYYC 3CR cNNM 
FYCN C2 tN2YFYCA
The Admiral ses: A fraternity Is a 
co-operative organization for getting 
dumbbells through school.
Tho remedy for tho situation prima
rily must come from tho studonts who 
aro themselves fundamentally Ideal
istic. Like pooplo ovorywhero, tho 
student noods to detach himself, par 
tlally at loast, from tho frivolity and 
disregard for roal valuos, which aro 
gonorally characteristics of tho after 
war porlod. Fortunatoly there is ovon 
now ovldonco that tho reaction of 
studonts toward standards of Intolr 
loctual Borlottsnoss Is almost at hand. 
If tho movomont Is given propor oncouragomont, It should sproad rapidly 
among tho studont bodlos . There aro 
prospocts that tho studonts may re
establish tho pursuit of knowledge 
and tho training of tho Intolloct ns 
the primary purpose of tho collogo; 
that a man or woman' standing In 
the student body will be Judged main
ly according to his intolloctual prog
ress and ability.The Dally Texan.
Directory of Carnegie Clans
to the, Federation before; $2. 
current year if not delinquent.
Upon request, the Alumni office will 
cheerfully tell you whether or not 
you are delinquent.
Hazing Abolished at SwarthmoreDue to a recent appeal to the Stu
dent Association of Swarthmore Col
lege by the president of that insti
tution, hazing lias been abolished. 
The president in his appeal declared 
that hazing was unsportsmanlike and 
that it interfered with the princi
ples of fair play.
PAGE TWOHCRWNE IDSYRW,F
or UKBFK,R PEBBE-.LBCFFB
ALUMNI CALENDAR
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7
Washington, D. C., Clan Dinner...................................................Evening
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9
Arts Ball.................................................College of Fine Arts, 9:00 P. M.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 10
Post-Ball Dance.......................................................Arts Foyer, 9:00 P. M.
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16 
Buffalo Clan Meeting.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21
Inter-Honorary Danee.................................Carnegie Union, 9:00 P. M.
SATURDAY, FEBRUAPif 17
Pittsburgh Clan Luncheon..
,UAP/f 1' 
....Fc/'t Pi
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital.............................200,000.00
Burplun and Undivided
Profit..........................$300,000.00
Doponltn, Ovor - - - $4(000,000.00
8AFE DEPOSIT B0XE8 
FOR RENT
[gjMSJclMclffl
GO TO THE
J] Tech Barber Shop
S FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS%3 Flvo Barbero at your oervlco. 
jgj Cor. CRAIG and FORBES STS.
I
AKRONSecretary, A. C. Sprague, R F. D. No. 24, South Akron, 0. 
BOSTONSecretary, J. F. Maxwell, 220 Billings Road, Wollaston, 
Mass.
BUFFALOSecretary, G. D. Martin, 523 East Ferry Street. 
CHICAGOSecretary, I. S. Stark, 1552 East 63rd Street. 
CINCINNATISecretary, Mary Zarobsky, 25 East Ninth Street. 
CLEVELANDSecretary, E. F. Lundeen, 12722 Barrington Avenue. 
Womens Clan Secretary, Mrs, E. C. Speaker, 10906 Woodstock Avenue.
trtLdnFUeiatVna'h6eforI!r $b20Tot I D^JTON-Seeretary, L H. Siegler, 2505 West Riverview Avenue.
DEIROITSecretary, H. A. Neel, 1615 Cadillac Avenue.
ERIESecretary, K. L. Konnerth, 1024 West Twenty-seventh Street. 
ELLWOOD CITYActing Secretary, George Dunseith, Jr., East 
Cottage.
HARRISBURGSecretary, Mrs. A. G. Green, 419 Woodbine Street. 
HARTFORDActing Secretary, R. W. Arnold, 701 Telephone Build
ing, S. N. E. T. Co., New Haven, Conn.
HUNTINGTONSecretary, J. F. Do Young, 808 Second St., E. 
JOHNSTOWNActing Secretary, R. W. Wal' ice, 641 Homer St. 
LOS ANGELESActing Secretary, Mrs. I. IT. Pille, 1420 Ninth Ave
nue, San Francisco. '
MONONGAHELA VALLEYSecretary, C. A. Stone, 521 Washing
ton Avenue, Charleroi, Pa.
NEW CASTLEActing Secretary, P. W. Marceau, 202 Shcnnngo St. 
NEW YORKSecretary, J. A. Cameron, 136 Park Avenue, West
chester Park, Tuckahoc, N. Y.
NORFOLKSecretary, J, W. Phillips, 611 Raleigh Avenue. 
PHILADELPHIASecretary, W. P. Lippiricott, 000 Washington 
Avenue, Palmyra, N. J.
PITTSBURGHSecretary, A. J. Hyrid, Carnegie Institute of Technology.
SHARONActing Secretary, W. J. Thomas, Jr., 95 W. Franklin St. 
ST. LOUISActing Secretary, M. A. Zeller, 1946 Railway Exchange Building.
Compliments  
of
Skibo inn I
WASHINGTON, D. C.Secretary, H. W. Haller, 1103 Munsey BIdg. 
YOUNGSTOWNSecretary, W. S. Scott, 65 East Earl Street. 
YOUNGSTOWNWomens Clan Secretary, Miss Bernice Pickens, 1422 Wick Avenue.
Pitt Hotel, 1:00 P. M. | W A T CH THE CLAN COLUMN EVERY WEEK
BUY a Corona on our 
$5.00 n month plnn. 
Phono us NOW for a  ten 
demonstration.
Standard Typewriter Co. 
129 6th Avc. Court 343.
l&t&Ne
jhe Personal ariting Machine
