The Tartan
Volume 82, Issue 8 Carnegie Mellon University October 27,1987
IINSIDE
FEATURES...................Page IS
CMUs Teaching Center and Haunted 
Baker Hall...
SPORTS.....................Page 28
The Tartans take a second and 2 thirds in 
PAC/UAA championship play
photo by Eric Leuiietle
5125 Margaret Morrison, Tech House, is the oldest building on campus and will cost 
$250,000 to move.
However, the decision about what to do with 
5125 Margaret Morrison is the students pri
mary concern, as several have been offered. 
One suggestion is to convert it into an informal 
lounge. Small meeting rooms with a homey 
atmosphere will enable students to gather in a 
comfortable environment. Another idea is to 
renovate it to a museum of some sort for the 
university. Robitshek feels that moving Scot
land Yard into the house is a better idea, 
although at present, the new University Center 
includes space for it. 5125 Margaret Morrison
would provide the nostalgic aura that the 
Yard needs; however, there are specific 
details that need to be studied, such as 
kitchen space, and whether three floors of 
tables to wait on is too much. The decision 
to move is up to the manager of the Yard to 
settle.
Brannick feels that there are advantages 
to moving and renovating 5125 Margaret 
Morrison. It will provide an opportunity for 
architecture students to renovate a buildphotboyEr ho icLE e
Resnick Honored With Memorial
By JEFFREY S. HAVRILLA
Tartan Staffwriter
A memorial in honor of Carnegie Mellon 
alumna Judith Resnick, one of the seven astro
nauts tragically killed in the explosion of the 
space shuttle Challenger nearly two years ago, 
is planned to be erected in front of Hamerschlag Hall this coming spring. The memorial is 
being sponsored by Tau Beta Pi, the engineer
ing honor society of which Dr. Resnick was 
once a member.
Patterned after Tau Beta Pi's official symbol, 
the triangular bent, the monument represents 
over a year of organization and effort towards 
a more permanent and visible reminder of the 
humanity vested in the engineering disci
plines.
David Kopchik, president of the Tau Beta Pi 
chapter at CMU, detailed how the idea for the 
memorial evolved. The monument was first 
proposed at a national Tau Beta Pi convention 
by James Tomes, former campus-president of 
Tau Beta Pi and CMU delegate to the conven
tion. The idea for a monument was not an 
original one, since many other schools had 
already dedicated similar bents to other vari
ous persons and events. The time had come for 
our chapter to sponsor its own bent and Dr. 
Resnick was the much favored candidate for 
the memorial.
The Tau Beta Pi bent is made from solid 
brass, and upon completion of the memorial, 
will be set into a semi-circular slab of granite. 
The face of this base will be covered by a 
bronze plaque with an inscription commemo
rating the brilliant career of Resnick, spanning 
her years at CMU and her tenure with the 
National Aeronautics and Space Administra
tion (NASA). In addition, the base will have a 
separate plaque listing the donors to the 
memorial.
Funding for this project was primarily gath
ered by Tau Beta Pi members, past and present 
alike. Eric Bracken, vice president of Tau Beta 
Pi, explained how money was raised through 
the efforts of members selling sweatshirts at 
the Homecoming game, as well as extensive 
phoning of alumni to personally donate 
money. Specific alumni, especially in the 
graduating class of 1970, were targeted for 
solicitation by letter as well.
The original location for the monument had 
been Baker Hall, near the Bookstore. It was 
moved, however, to the patio/walkway be
tween Porter and Wean halls (in front of the 
Hamerschlag Hall) to identify it more readily 
with the engineering and science departments 
themselves. To de-emphasize its Tau Beta Pi 
nature and make the memorial more of a 
campus testimonial, much of the inscription 
was revised, contributing to the delay of the 
project.
Several other factors also slowed the con
struction of the memorial. Cost of the base had 
to be subsidized by the school to afford a larger 
granite block upon which the bronze plaques 
could be set. In addition, a dedication date has 
yet to be scheduled. We had hoped to have the 
monument ready for this year's homecomphotboyEr ho icLE u
Former Tech House To Be Moved
Student Union Budget Discussed
Senate Adopts Free 
Speech Resolution
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan News Editor
Student Senate passed a resolution urging 
the University to adopt a free expression pol
icy and discussed the Student Unions funding 
last Tuesday.
The accepted resolution, introduced by 
freshman Mark Steppel, reads, We, the Stu
dent Senate, strongly urge that the University 
adopt a free speech policy that explicitly gives 
members of the campus community the right 
to free expression, including but not limited to 
the right to petition and the right to leaflet on 
campus without interruption and without prior 
consent, so long as the general flow of campus 
activity is not disrupted. In addition, we 
strongly urge that the policy explicitly forbid 
infringement on this right by Campus Secu
rity, the Administration, or any other member 
or non-member of the campus community, 
unless such event is disrupting campus activ
ity. If the person or persons conducting this 
activity feel that they are likely to be harassed 
in spite of this policy, they may notify Campus 
Security, in advance, of their intentions to use 
this right to free expression, thereby guaran
teeing that they are allowed to proceed undis
turbed.
After considerable discussion, it took a roll 
call vote to pass the resolution. President of 
Student Government Andy Robitshek, filling 
in for absent Chairman Dave Goldstein, de
clared that the resolution failed after its voice 
vote. H&SS senior Senator Allen Greenberg
photboyEr ho icLE l
By KEI KURITA
Tartan Staffwriter
One of the changes Carnegie Mellon 
Universitys new Master Plan has proposed 
is to not include 5125 Margaret Morrison 
(formerly known as Tech House) and some 
concerned students who are opposed to this 
motion requested to save it from being de
stroyed, by physically moving the building 
to a different part of campus. A meeting was 
held on Oct. 15 in the Blue Conference 
Room with concerned students, Student 
Government President Andy Robitshek, 
and Vice President of Development A1 
Brannick to consider this proposal.
Students feel that the reason 5125 Marga
ret Morrison should be saved is because it is 
the oldest building on campus, and further
more, it has the potential of being the only 
student space for three years while Skibo 
is being renovated. 5125 Margaret Morri
son, which was built in 1895, served as the 
Home Management House for Margaret 
Morrison College during the 1960s.
As it stands now, 5125 Margaret Morrison 
needs to be removed since it blocks part of 
a proposed walkway. The building can be 
moved, although it will be difficult since it 
is built on stone foundation. Fred Rogers, 
Vice President of Business Affairs, and 
Brannick estimate a move would cost nearly 
$250,000, but will allow the change if the 
conditions are right. Two locations for 
5125 Margaret Morrison have been sug
gested: the area next to the gymnasium or 
near the tennis courts on the amphitheater.
Enjoy It While It Lasts
photo by Dan Dowhan
A Carnegie Mellon student enjoys one of the mild Indian Summer days last week.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanOctober 27,1987
Gorbachev Links Star 
Wars to U.S. Summit
MOSCOW (AP)  A snag over Star Wars 
Friday derailed hopes for a U.S.-Soviet sum
mit meeting, even though the two sides were 
close to wrapping up an accord to scrap their 
intermediate-range nuclear missiles.
Secretary of State George P. Shultz, re
porting the disappointing turn of events at a 
news conference, said that Soviet leader 
Mikhail S. Gorbachev told him he was not 
prepared to visit the United States soon unless 
Washington changed its stand on the spacebased missile defense system.
In the general secretary's view, he's not 
prepared, apparently, under current circum
stances to set a date for a visit to Washington," 
Shultz told a news conference, which was 
televised live in the United States.
Shultz added, Why that is, youll have to ask 
him.
Neither Gorbachev nor Soviet Foreign Min
ister Eduard A. Shevardnadze appeared at the 
news conference.
Earlier, Shultz said the two sides are virtu
ally there on a treaty to eliminate in
termediate-range nuclear weapons. He said 
most of the remaining disagreements are 
largely in the area of verification to guard 
against cheating.
U.S. Attack on Iran 
Escalates Gulf War
WASHINGTON (DJ)  The American 
strike against an Iranian offshore military 
platform scored a tactical and political success 
for the U.S., but it leaves open the prospect of 
escalating violence.
Four U.S. warships destroyed an Iranian oil 
platform in the Persian Gulf last Monday in 
retaliation for the attack on a U.S.-flagged 
tanker two weeks ago. U.S. military forces 
boarded a second Iranian sea platform after it 
had been abandoned by Iranian personnel and 
destroyed some radar and communications 
gear before departing.
The action generally was greeted warmly by 
American's friends in the Persian Gulf, who 
are providing an unusual amount of military 
help. And it was calculated carefully enough 
to receive widespread support in Congress, 
where skittish members might have ques
tioned a more provocative or dangerous raid.
But it is likely the Iranians will retaliate, 
forcing the U.S. into a decision about stilltougher measures. And despite the initial en
thusiasm for last Mondays strike, there re
mains a strong underlying uneasiness in Con
gress, which could yet curb the adminis
tration's high-profile strategy in the gulf.
Indeed, with allied navies also playing the 
gulf, the Mideast nations from Israel to Saudi 
Arabia in full support and with the American 
public still widely inclined to view Ayatollah 
Khomeinis regime as villainous, America 
seems to have the basic ingredients for keep
ing the heat on. The cautious American attack 
drew praise from European allies and Arab 
friends.
S. Korean Assembly 
Approves Constitution
SEOUL ( AP)  The South Korean national 
assembly gave overwhelming approval last 
week to a new constitution designed to bring 
full democracy to South Korea and allow di
rect presidential elections.
Government and opposition leaders ex
pressed delight after the constitution was 
passed, 254 votes to 4, after a two-hour debate.
The constitution now must be approved in a 
national referendum before it becomes law. A 
referendum is expected to be held today.
The new constitution is expected to pass 
easily in the national referendum.
The measure clears the way for the holding 
later this year of the countrys first direct 
presidential elections in 16 years, replacing an 
electoral college system.
Stocks End Historic 
Week on a Mixed Note
NEW YORK (DJ)  Wall Streets most 
tumultuous week in history ended fairly qui
etly, as the stock markets volatility and trad
ing pace slackened during an abbreviated
session.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed up 
0.33 at 1,950.76 after trading within a 30-point 
range of Thursdays closing level for the entire
session.
Traders said many investors sat out the ses
sion and began assessing the damage done to 
their portfolios by the markets unprecedented 
turbulence over the course of the week.
Last Mondays record 508-point plunge in 
the Dow industrials, the ensuing two-day 
rally, Thursdays retreat and Fridays flat 
showing left the average down about 296 
points, or 13 percent, for the week. The drop 
broke the record for the largest weekly point 
loss, which was set only last week.
Ptone 363
16 INCH PEPPERONI PIZZA $4.tax
Saturday 11 am - 2 am 
Sunday through Friday 3 pm - 2 am 
Big Board volume for the week totaled 2.3 
billion shares, with the first four days of the 
week representing the four heaviest trading 
days in New York Stock Exchange history. 
The backlog of paperwork created by the hec
tic trading pace led the major exchanges to 
close early Friday; shortened sessions took 
place Monday and today.
First Lady Treated 
For Breast Cancer
WASHINGTON (UPI)  First Lady Nancy 
Reagan had a part of her left breast removed 
after doctors found a malignant tumor.
The first lady had recently undergone a rou
tine annual mammogram that found a suspi
cious lesion that might represent an early state 
of malignancy.
The operation, conducted at Bethesda Naval 
Hospital, was done under local anesthesia and 
with radiological guidance. Doctors per
formed a biopsy of the suspicious area.
After finding evidence of malignancy, the 
physicians proceeded with the surgical re
moval of the left breast and remove nodes from 
the left auxilla, a procedure known as a modi
fied radical mastectomy.
All other alternatives of management of 
carcinoma of the breast have been discussed 
with the First Lady and she accepts it, said 
Fitzwater before the operation.
Goetz Sentenced To 
Six Months in Jail
NEW YORK  Bernhard H. Goetz, who 
shot four teenagers on a New York subway in 
1984, was sentenced last Monday to six 
months in jail for carrying an unlicensed con
cealed pistol.
In a trial last June, Goetz was acquitted of 
charges of attempted murder and assault.
In addition to the jail sentence, Goetz was 
ordered to undergo psychiatric counseling. 
Since the incident he has maintained that he 
shot the youths because he thought they were 
about to rob him.
The sentence also includes a $5,000 fine and 
requires Goetz to perform 280 hours of unpaid 
community service work.
The 39-year-old electrical engineer could 
have received a seven year maximum sentence 
for the illegal posession.
* tSenate Votes to Reject 
Borks Nomination
WASHINGTON  The United States Sen
ate voted Friday afternoon to reject Judge 
Robert H. Bork's nomination to the Supreme 
Court.
The 58-42 vote made Bork the 26th nominee 
ever to be rejected by the Senate.
Economy Dominates  
Press Conference
WASHINGTON (DJ)  President Reagan, 
carefully preserving his options, declined to 
rule out tax increases when he meets with 
congressional leaders to work out a budgetdeficit compromise.
Reagan, speaking at his first White Hous/^ 
news conference in more than seven months, 
said he remains opposed to any tax that will 
have a deleterious effect on the economy, and 
he said he would be particularly reluctant to 
accept any increases in personal income taxes.
Reagan said the stock market slide was a 
long-overdue correction, and he added that 
what factors led to its kind of getting into the 
panic stage, I dont know. But well be watch 
ing it very closely.
Answering one of last nights few foreignpolicy questions, Reagan said the U.S. will 
continue responding militarily to Iranian at
tacks. But he also stressed that were not there 
to start a war, and he added that he didnt see 
such actions as this weeks American retali
atory attack on Iranian offshore military plat
forms as leading to a war or anything else.
Runaway Banana 
Truck Closes l\innel
PITTSBURGH - The Fort Pitt Tunnel had 
to be closed Friday after a truck loaded with
40,000 pounds of bananas lost its brakes, hit 
three cars, and ran into the tunnels garage.
The garage caught fire, which gutted the 
control room, above the tunnels entrance. 
Electrical connections were damaged, shut 
ting down the eight ventilating fans.
Additionally, firefighters shorted out the 
computer system controlling overhead warn
ing signs for inbound traffic.
The tunnels suffered no structural damage 
and were able to open Friday evening.
The banana truck from Mississippi was en 
route to the Giant Eagle Warehouse in the Strip 
district when it lost its brakes. 1 J
The truck did set off an automatic alarm that 
detects vehicles that are too large to drive 
through the tunnel, however the driver was un
able to steer into the emergency lane because 
of backed up traffic.
,PEng dsbEag ciiEcs phystEgv
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center 269-2922
After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator will help you reach the staff 
member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh............................................................. 782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive listening
Drug Connection................................................................... 854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 5 - 9 pm
Tel-Aid................................................................................... 281-4664
A Series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safety issues. 
Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

October 27,1987The TartanPage 3
AB Sponsors Squeeze
STUDENT TICKETS ON SALE AT INFO DESK
By JOSH RUBEN
Tartan Stajfwriter
Activities Board Concert will launch this 
years concert season on November 23 
when the band Squeeze plays at the Syria 
Mosque.
The concert will be presented by AB in 
association with the University of Pitts
burgh, WXXP, and Pittsburgh promoting 
company, DiCesare-Engler. According to 
AB Concert spokesperson, Sara Rad, We 
wanted to [present] the show with Pitt, but 
DiCesare-Engler would not sell it to us. In 
order to present a show, a group or promoter 
must have two things, according to Rad, 
money and a space to put on the event. For 
example, last weeks REM concert was 
totally out of the ball park to AB, accord
ing to Rad because it was so expensive. 
DiCesare-Engler has both the capital to 
invest and the availability of the Syria 
Mosque. Since AB Concert was not able to 
buy the show from DiCesare-Engler, they 
had to settle for buying a large number of 
reserved seats from the promoter.
Carnegie Mellon and Pitt each received 
750 tickets at a cost, according to Rad, of 
$ 13.75 a piece. Carnegie Mellon paid for its 
share of the tickets, which totaled approxi
mately $10,300, with funds from the Stu
dent Activities Fee.
The tickets, which went on sale at the 
information desk on October 20, are being 
sold by AB Concert for only $7.00. This 
was a surprise to some people who went to
the Mosque early and paid full price for the 
tickets. Rad, admits that promotion in gen
eral for the show was handled badly, but 
she blames DiCesare-Engler for much of 
confusion. We didnt know until last Fri
day [October 16], that we definitely had the 
tickets, said Rad. DiCesare-Engler started 
selling tickets to the general public, at the 
full price of $13.75, that Saturday. Rad 
claims that because most students (includ
ing members of AB) went home for MidSemester, AB Concert got a last minute 
start on promoting and selling the tickets to 
Carnegie Mellon Students. Rad added that, 
The Mosque box office is supposed to tell 
ticket buyers that tickets were available for 
half price at CMU and Pitt.
Even though Pitt is much larger than 
CMU in terms of student population, each 
school received the same number of tickets 
because each school put up the same 
amount of money. According to Rad, 
DiCesare-Engler decided which tickets 
would go to the schools and each school 
received the same tickets. Rad explained 
that, The tickets start at about Row T...if 
CMU is on the left side, then Pitt is on the 
right. DiCesare-Engler kept the front row 
seats for sale to the public.
This was the first time we have ever 
done anything like this, Rad concluded. 
When we do it again, well be better 
prepared. The Spring Concert is still not 
definite, Were open to ideas for any
thing, she said.
Assailant Still At Large
CMU Student Assaulted
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan News Editor
At 9:15 pm, Friday October 
15, a lone female student was 
indecently assaulted in a Mar
garet Morrison bathroom. The 
incident occurred in the first 
floor bathroom on the stadiumend of the building.
The victim told Campus Po
lice she heard someone enter 
the bathroom while she was in a 
stall. When she exited the stall, 
she was grabbed by a young 
black male and pushed back 
against the stall door. Though 
she struggled, he forced his 
hand under her shirt and 
grabbed her.
The assailant was startled 
when he heard someone enter 
the building over the bridge 
that connects Margaret Morri
son and the patio in front of the 
stadium. He stopped, placing 
his fingers to his lips warning 
his victim to be quiet. After the 
people passed by, the assailant 
fled the area. When she heard 
the main doors open and close, 
the victim called Security.
When they arrived, Campus Police searched 
the area but were unable to find the assailant.
The assailant is described as a young black 
male, in his early 20s, 5' 10" tall, medium 
build, medium complexion, with close
CC EE ir FF
17 65 23 10
Police sketch of the man who assaulted a CMU student. If 
you have any information, call 268-2323.
cropped hair. He was wearing a blue jean 
jacket, a white polo shirt, blue jeans, and white 
tennis shoes.
If you have any additional information, call 
Campus Police at 268-2323.
SAMS Sets Minimum Goal At $30,000
By CHRIS YOUNG
Tartan Stajfwriter 
Students Against Multiple Sclerosis, in its 
third year at CMU raising money to fight MS, 
is taking their first step next weekend to beat 
last years national fund raising record of 
$30,000. They will kick off this years fund 
raising effort at Saturdays Tartan football
going to judge the national competition by 
whoever raised the most money per person. 
But we ended up giving more money per 
person and more money overall. Second 
place went to Ohio State.
Last year, SAMS second year of fund rais
ing and the same year CMU saw The Bangles 
free, SAMS of CMU unfortunately couldnt
J(wt,hyL, gtyrEotg csE cict,Etbp ct Gk). t,ET csE mEsT phAF
iEtbtbmEH fE iwco th ygE t,ct phAiEtbmEoEgg th nboHS
x(orT Mh:btg,ER
game with a raffle for items including a VCR, 
CD Player, and free pizza.
Commonly known as SAMS, Students 
Against Multiple Sclerosis, a subgroup of the 
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, was cre
ated to involve students in a fight against a 
disease which short circuits the central nerv
ous systems of approximately 200 adults ev
ery week, most of whom are between the ages 
of 20 and 40. Symptoms of MS include dis
torted vision, loss of balance and muscle coor
dination, slurred speech, tremors, stiffness, 
and, in most severe cases, paralysis. As of yet, 
there is no known cause or cure.
Two years ago, when SAMS volunteers at 
CMU first competed with the over 250 SAMS 
groups at other universities, the cause was 
enthusiastically given more donations per 
enrolled student than any other school. But, 
not only did the volunteers raise more money 
per student than any other school, they also 
raised more total donations than any other 
school, beating out big universities like Pitt, U. 
of Florida, etc. As a reward for their 25,000 
dollar donation, CMU won free tickets to see 
the Bangles perform the following year in the 
Syria Mosque. It was really cool, says Andy 
Robitshek, President of Student Government 
and SAMS chairperson, because they were
reach the mark they had made in donations the 
year before. According to the members, 
There were technical difficulties. Says 
chairperson, Lauren Howard, Its just natural 
for this type of organization that you need a lot 
of peoplea lot of dedicated people. Last 
year we had the good intentions but lacked the 
same motivation we had the year before. We 
didnt think we could beat what we did last 
year. Also, says Chairperson, Virginia 
Seitz, its hard when you dont have dead
lines and checks on yourself up to a point. So 
it gets easy to let the whole thing slide.
Robitshek agrees, The average student 
doesnt have time on this campus to do that 
many extracurricular activities. But as this 
years fundraising effort begins its fight 
against MS, SAMS plans to raise not only 
more money than they did the first year, but 
also more money than set the new record last 
year30,000 dollars!
Events for this year include: the kickoff of 
the fundraising season this Saturday, Oct. 
31st, at the Tartan Football game: a balloon 
launch next Wednesday; a band/dance this 
fall; a Rock Alike Dance (similar to air band) 
in the Spring; and a Donate-A-Meal day where 
students can donate the meal plan money they 
wont spend on university meals in the days
before and/or during Thanksgiving Break 
(this event is still tentative).
Two years ago the Rock Alike event itself 
made over $3,000. But the money wasn't the 
big thing, says Lauren Howard, it was that 
the whole campus was involved. It was the one 
thing that tied the whole campus together. 
The Rock Alike that raises the most money for 
its campus is eligible to compete in a regional 
video competition in which the finals are 
broadcasted over MTV.
Most of the students who presently compose 
the SAMS of CMU have been volunteering 
since the organization first formed in '85-86. 
At that time the organization began operating 
under the leadership of Rich Miller, a CMU 
student who, in his sophomore year, discov
ered that he had Multiple Sclerosis. Rich still 
suffers from MS.
When Rich Miller acquired MS in his so
phomore year, says Lauren Howard, he was 
a football player, and had everything going for
him. So the campus got really involved in 
supporting SAMS since he was the spokesper
son. Then one morning he woke up totally 
blind. Sara Rad, also a chairperson, points out 
that The really scary thing about MS is that it 
could happen to anybody. It could happen to 
you or one of your friends. Virginia Seite 
agrees, In six months your life can go to hell. 
And then one morning you wake up and say 
why me? Its not fair.
The main goal for this year, according to the 
SAMS members is, We expect to raise over 
thirty thousand dollarsto beat last year's 
total. We expect to win!
Their plan, says Robitshek, is as follows: 
Although students are apathetic at CMU, 
they are very competitive. We plan to use that 
competitiveness to win.
Other SAMS chairpeople include Dave 
Levy, Natalie Capone, and Kris Stringer.
SAMS meets on Mondays at 4 pm in Scot
land Yard.
Move Will Cost $250.000
Tech House To Be Relocated
photboyEr ashA icLE O
ing, as they have done in the past with 
buildings both on and off campus. Further
more, it will allow students to help out with 
construction during the summer.
One of the major obstacles that must be 
overcome is raising the funds to provide for 
the moving and renovations for Tech 
House. Funds are needed not only to relo
cate it, but for plumbing, electricity, and 
woodwork repairs as well. Although the 
$250,000 seems insignificant compared to 
the $57.7 million for the Master Plan, Brannick states that its not a big change, but 
we have to find the money...it is an in
crease.
One of the ways Brannick plans to receive 
aid is by contacting the former students of 
Margaret Morrison College. We will find 
some opportunity, he comments; theres 
a lot of good will out there with the alumni 
and they might want to empathize with it 
enough to help with the fundraiser. He 
feels that MMC alumni will feel more of a 
close connection with 5125 Margaret Mor
rison, as opposed to the University Center, 
and might be interested in supporting its 
renovations, especially since some of them 
work with interior decorating. However, he 
maintains that students must come up with 
some portion of the money, so that we 
know that they are genuinely interested.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanOctober 27,1987
Election 88 News
dyg, BEpwcsEg GcorbrcpT 
fbt, NiEEp, bo Yhygtho
HOUSTON (AP)  Vice President 
George Bush, saying America needs strong 
and stable leadership instead of radical 
new directions, formally declared his can
didacy for the Republican Party presiden
tial nomination.
For seven years now, I have been with a 
president, and I have seen what crosses that 
big desk, Bush said. And who should sit at 
that desk? I am that man.
In a wide-ranging address prepared for 
Bush's announcement in his hometown of 
Houston, the Vice President signaled that he 
would not swing away from President 
Reagan's major policy stands, both in 
domestic and foreign policy areas.
Lc:hs NEpH dshpR MEgbLog 
Th YEcr BhwEg GcAicbLo
WASHINGTON (AP)  Labor Secretary 
William E. Brock announced he will resign 
from president Reagan's cabinet, in the 
process making his first campaign speech 
for his next boss. Republican presidential 
hopeful Robert Dole.
This is not a decision made lightly, 
Brock said of his choice to become Sen. 
Doles campaign chairman on Nov. 1,
When he leaves his Labor secretary post.
Brock is the second cabinet member to leave 
to campaign for Dole. The first was Doles 
wife, Elizabeth, who resigned as Secretary of 
Transportation.
Tcstco GcorbrctE PshabwE: 
MEiy:wbpco GEhsLE dyg,
The winner of Washingtons longest resum 
contest is Vice-President George Herbert 
Walker Bush. In the past twenty years he has 
been a Congressman, Chairman of the Repub
lican National Committee, U.S. representative 
to the United Nations, chief liaison to China, 
and Director of the CIA.
The son of a Republican Senator, Bush twice 
ran for the Senate and lost. In a deal between 
Ford and the Senate, Bush was barred from 
being named as Fords Vice Presidential can
didate in 1976 in return for his confirmation to 
the CIA post.
Bush grew up in affluent Greenwich, Conn., 
and attended private schools. Ratherthan enter 
Yale upon graduation (a family tradition) 
Bush elected to join the U.S. Naval Reserve. 
As a member of the Torpedo Bomber Squad
ron VT51. he was the youngest pilot in the 
Navy in 1943.
Two weeks after being rotated home in 
Christmas 1944, he married Barbara Pierce, a 
student at Smith College and the daughter of 
the publisher of Redbook and McCalls magazines. He entered Yale September 1945.
He graduated with a degree in economics 
and then moved to Texas to work in the oil 
fields. He eventually became president of 
an offshore drilling equipment company. 
He entered Texas politics in the 1960s, 
had been a two-tegn Congressman when 
he ran for Senate in 1970. After losing that 
election, President Nixon named Bush to 
the United Nations.
Bush carried the Republican primary in 
Pennsylvania in 1980, and was able to 
carry several other states, but was unable to 
stop the Reagan juggernaut.
Reagan asked Bush to be his running 
mate after former President Ford turned 
down the post. As Vice-President, Bush 
shuns speaking in cabinet meetings to 
avoid appearing to disagree with the Presi
dent.
Indeed, he is basing his campaign as a 
logical continuation of the Reagan years.
Height: 62
Religion: Episcopalian
Words which will come back to haunt 
him: Called Reaganomics voodoo eco
nomics in 1980. The same year he also 
said Theres absolutely no reason why we 
cant have two decades of peace in the 
1980s.
The previous article is the first of twelve 
Tartan candidate profiles that will appear 
each week.
Investment Club Loses Shirt in Crash
By JOSH RUBEN
Tartan Staff\\ iter
The Carnegie Mellon Investment Group 
suffered some major losses on the stock mar
ket last week, as did investors all over the 
country as the market fell 508 points on 
Black Monday.
According to Investment Group President, 
James Meacham. the groups investments fell 
about 13%, in comparison with the markets 
25% drop. Of the $9,000 worth of investments 
at the time of Mondays drop, We lost about 
$1,000. said Meacham.
The group is composed of about 20 Carnegie 
Mellon students who are interested in stocks 
and how the market works. The members 
invest in various stocks using funds which 
were provided to them by the school when the 
group was founded in 1982. Since that time, 
the group has made a substantial profit. They 
have, however, had to deal with some major 
setbacks not including last weeks market 
drop.
For example, Meacham cited the groups 
trouble in 1985, We were big in oil, and prices 
dropped...we had some big losses. Meacham 
stated that in 1985 the group had large invest
ments in various oil company stock. When oil 
prices fell that year [ which caused the value of
oil company stock to devaluate], the losses the 
group had then were much worse than those 
suffered last week.
Meacham pointed out that the loss in 1985 
occurred over several months, as contrast to 
the one-day plummet last week. For this rea
son. he does not feel that the markets loss will 
have any serious affects. The loss will not 
affect the market in the long term. While 
long term is a relative phrase on Wall Street, 
Meacham defines it as a three to five year 
period. In time, people will forget about (last 
Mondays loss]...it wont be significant down 
the road, said Meacham.
On Wall Street last week, most traders and 
investors were quite worried and even con
fused about what to do following Mondays 
events. According to Meacham, and Wall 
Street analysts, only the brave investors will 
start buying again since no one is really quite
sure just how stable the market is. The fall on 
Monday was brought on mainly by a large 
number of investors who were caught up in a 
panic sell.They began selling large numbers 
of stocks at once. When this happens, stock 
prices fall and cause more and more investors 
to sell their stocks before prices get too low.
In the days following Black Monday, 
though, the Investment Group decided to 
capitalize on the low prices and buy. We went 
ahead and had our regularly scheduled meet
ing on Wednesday, said Meacham, and the 
group felt Bullish [a term used to describe the 
positive factors of the market]. Meacham 
justified this attitude by saying that last weeks 
fall was A good thing [since] the market was 
over valued. He added that not everyone was 
taken by complete surprise and some traders 
did make money. You can always make 
money on the market.
One of the most interesting phenomena to
come out of last weeks fall was the psycho
logical impact on Wall Street Yuppies. This 
is the closest thing to the Crash of 1929 they 
have ever had to deal with. Most investors are 
too young to have lived through the Depres
sion and may have nightmares about getting 
back into trading given the shadow of the early 
1930s. Meacham said this is a phenomenon 
that will go away and the same people who 
were trading before last Monday will be doing 
so again very soon.
Meacham summed it up as, Say you have a 
BMW. You wash it, wax it, keep the engine in 
good shape. Then one day, a truck comes 
along and totals it. Thats what happened last 
Monday. You'go to your insurance company, 
get a new BMW, and youre right back to 
where you were. Thats what investors will do 
with their stocks. This country has a viable 
stock market and a viable economy, and 
people like their BMWs.
Lilley Gives First Last Lecture
By CHRIS YOUNG
Tartan Staffwriter
Last Tuesday, Oct. 20, Assistant Dean of 
Student Affairs Edward Lilley addressed 
The Serious Business Of Play in the first 
of the Last Lectures... series presented by 
Student Senate.
Lilley informed students why it is so im
portant for us to incorporate play into our 
lifeespecially in what we normally con
sider serious work.
The basis of Li 1 leys argument was that 
through playing games with other children 
we learn about life or learn the rules of the 
game. We learn to adjust our needs and 
wants to the rules of the games, thereby 
becoming thinkers and planners. But 
somewhere along the process of our devel
opment, as we pass through adolescence, 
society discourages our tendency to play. 
The fourteen year old becomes shunned by 
his friends for still wanting to play hide
and go seek or play with his G.I.Joe. 
But this discouragement, says Lilley, is 
really harmful. We need the serious busi
ness of play to help us learn and be creative 
throughout our entire lives.
According to Lilley, If play is not a part 
of work, you will end up living the whole 
day just waiting till you can get out of that 
environment and do something fun. You 
need uninhibited play in your life in order 
to be happy. The greatest scientists made 
their revolutionary discoveries by being 
able to look at a problem from alternative 
perspectives instead of using the straightstraightforward, narrow and conventional" 
method. They made their discoveries by 
being able to say  what if. They made their 
discoveries by not being afraid to play.
Lectures such as this will be presented 
every Tuesday, at 4:30 pm in Porter Hall 
100. The lectures, given by CMU faculty 
and staff, are funded by the activities fee.
Sudent Affairs Offers 
Free Theater Tickets
By NATALIE CAPONE
Tartan Staffnriter 
The Office of Student Affairs will be offer
ing students free tickets to the Carnegie Mel
lon Drama department production Portrait of 
Dorian Gray for the November 4, 5, and 1' 
performances.
In the summer Student Affairs surveys, we 
found that students wanted more notice and 
advertisement of Drama Department shows, 
and that freshmen were looking forward to 
theatrical productions, said Assistant Dean of 
Student Affairs Ed Lilley. But it seems like 
due to some misunderstanding, students dont 
attend. So we made the decision to buy out tin 
house and get the students there.
Lilley said that Student Affairs eventual 
dream is that shows will become a part of a 
kids life here, and hell just build attending 
into his schedule. After seeing one show, we 
hope hell be hooked.
Portrait of Dorian Gray is a modernized 
musical adaption of Oscar Wildes book by the 
same name. We decided this was a good sho$ 
to promote, said Lilley. Its not too serious 
and heavy, but not fluff either.
Students can obtain their free tickets on the 
days of the shows (November 4, 5 and 10) in 
Grey Matter from 12 pm to 4 pm. A single 
student may have as many as four tickets, but 
he must tell us the names of the students who 
are intending to come. Were concerned 
theyll take the tickets and not show, and w-^ 
really want to fill the house, said Lilley. 
SHOW: Portrait of Don an Gray.
DATES: Nov 4, 5, 10.
TIME: 8 p.m.
PLACE: Kresge Theater.
PRICE: Free.
TICKET INFORMATION: Obtain up to 4 
tickets on day of show by presenting ID in 
Grey Matter from 12-4.
SEATS: Throughout house.
Health Service Extends Hours
By KEI KURITA
Tartan Staffwriter .
The Student Health Service has tentatively 
extended its hours on Monday, Wednesday, 
and Friday, until 8 pm, to accommodate more 
students.
The Health Service program will not be alter
ing its present set-up, but appointing a regis
tered nurse for walk-ins from 4 to 8 pm during 
those designated days. She will be available 
for advice, first-aid, throat culture, urine cul } 
ture, and basic screening. In case theres need 
for more immediate help, a physician or nurse 
practitioner will be on call during these hours.
This new schedule was developed in re
sponse to students demands for more availa
bility. Anita Barkin, the Director of the Student Health Service, explains that this is 
really an experiment to see what hours will 
best suit the students needs. An evaluation 
will be made at the end of the semester to* 
determine if it is successful. If there is a need 
for different hours, they will consider making 
amendments. Barkin emphasizes that this is 
by no means carved in stone.
As for adding Saturday and Sunday hours, 
Barkin remarks that it is being considered, but 
theres a limit to what we can do, especially 
since there is a major hospital nearby.  She^) 
notes that even a large school like Pitt doesnt 
provide health services on weekends for this 
reason.
The schedule for the Health Service at pres
ent is:
8:30 am-8:00 pm Monday, Wednesday, and 
Friday
8:30 am -5:00 pm Tuesday and Thursday
K't

---------------------------------------------------

October 27,1987The TartanPage 5
Pi Lambda Phi Raises Over $1,700
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan News Editor 
Last weekend, Pi Lambda Phi fraternity 
raised over $1,700 for United Cerebral 
Palsey of Pittsburgh in the First Annual 
Jolly Laddies Steel City Shootout.
The Shootout, a national flag football 
championship played on the IM field, 
started Friday, October 23, and ended 
Sunday, October 25. This was the first 
national competion in Pi Lambda Phis 92 
year history.
Nine Pi Lambda Phi fraternity chapters 
participated in the football games: Carne
gie Mellon, University of Pittsburgh, Indi
ana State University, Penn State Univer
sity, Temple University, Franklin and 
Marshall College, Albright College, Uni
versity of Delaware, and Shippensburg
S tate University of Pennsylvania. Roanoke 
College, Drexel University, and Lindesar 
College in Canada also sent non-participating representatives.
Penn State beat Temple 19-9 inthechampionship game, and Shippensburg wound 
up third. Each of the three top teams were 
awarded trophies.
Temple was also awarded a trophy for 
donating the most money, and Indiana 
State was awarded a trophy for traveling 
the longest distance.
According to the events chairman Todd 
Bross, most of the money was raised from 
local businesses who donated a penny for 
every point scored during the football 
games.
Money was also raised Friday by canning 
in front of Doherty and a Department Tag 
Day Thursday by asking for donations 
from faculty and staff. The weekend raised 
a guaranteed $1,700, but at least $300 more 
has been pledged.
Other events included a keg toss, won by 
CMU, relay races, won by Temple, and a 
tug-o-war.
Bross stated the fundraising weekend 
would be hosted at Carnegie Mellon every 
year.
Ever thought about writing news? If 
you enjoy meeting people, writing, and 
influencing opinions on campus, or just 
giving people the scoop on current 
events, then being a news-hound is for 
you. You'll have a broad range of topics 
to write on each week, or you can sniff 
out breaking stories by yourself. Then, 
each Tuesday you can see your name 
attached to the headlines of a story that 
over 4,000 people will read.
If this sounds like you, then come to the 
Tartan office in the bottom of Skibo or 
call Karl Barnhart at 521-4884.
Trustees Meet in Greenbrier
By LISA McANANY
Tartan Contributing Editor 
We want a university where students can 
develop intellectually and socially in ways 
that will make each of them capable of being 
an outstanding person and an excellent citi
zen, writes Richard Cyert in the Annual 
Report of 1986-87. One of the ways to 
achieve this goal is to have an environment 
that is warm.
How to create a "warm environment for 
students was one of the issues on the table at 
the Boardof Trustees meeting last weekend at 
the Greenbrier resort in West Virginia.
Ninety minutes on Saturday morning was 
dedicated to the issue of the student quality of 
life at Carnegie Mellon. The session centered 
on the final report prepared by the Quality of 
Life Task Force, a committee created by John 
Crecine when he was the Vice President for 
Academic Affairs. The Task Force is com
prised of administration, faculty and students 
and chaired by Bill Elliott, Vice President for 
Enrollment and Paul Christiano. Head of the 
Civil Engineering department. Its work culmi
nated in seven students being chosen as repre
sentatives to present the work of the commit
tee to the trustees.
During the formal session and in informal 
discussions throughout the weekend, students 
stressed the need for construction to begin as 
soon as possible on the university center, and 
also emphasized the need for changes in the 
campus environment that will promote diver
sity and a more well-rounded student body.
In describing the work of the committee dur
ing the Saturday session, student Greg 
Berkowitz pointed out, We are trying for a 
new attitude toward education. As a commit
tee, we didnt deal with the mechanics. We 
need to worry about the issue behind the ideas 
and recommendations contained in this report, 
not the implementation of them.
Braden Walter, Dean of Student Affairs and 
also a member of the task force, in discussing 
the university center project said, Right now, 
Carnegie Mellon is like a house without a liv
ing room. Theres no central gathering place 
for students. Thats the function that the uni
versity center will hopefully fulfill.
In addition to stressing the need for a student 
union, the task force report recommended, 
making available new opportunities for en
riched general education, extending diversity 
of cultural and human resources, articulating 
commitment to total development of the stu
dent and providing resources and facilities, 
and making institutional and administrative 
changes to enhance commitment toward im
proving the quality of student life.
The board of trustees has 67 members, of 
which 33 attended the weekend meeting at the 
Greenbrier. The board meets three times annu
ally. Meetings usually take place on Carnegie 
Mellons campus, but are held at the Green
brier as needed, usually once every two years.
The weekends activities also included a ses
sion on academic planning at which deans of 
all the colleges presented status reports. The 
subcommittees of the board met and the board 
as a whole met for the formal trustees meet
ing, at which President Cyert, Andrew Robitshek, Student Government President. Fred 
Rogers, Vice President for Business Affairs 
and Alvin Branik, Vice President for Develop
ment all spoke.
The unveiling of President Cyerts portrait 
took place prior to Friday nights dinner ses
sion. The portrait was painted by Philip 
Pearlstein following six sittings with Cyert 
over the summer. The portrait of Cyert was 
undertaken after the artist received an honor
ary degree from Carnegie Mellon. The canvas 
will hang along with the other presidential 
portraits which are currently housed in the 
Berkman House.
Citicorp/Citibank
Operations and Systems 
Career Presentation
Citicorp/Citibank invites you to talk with representatives from our 
North American Investment Bank about career opportunities
in Operations and Systems.
DATE: Tuesday, November 3 
TIME: 7 ' 9 pm 
PLACE: Skibo Room 13
Refreshments will be served

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanOctober 27,1987
Electronic Calendar Planned for Campus
Bv KARL BARNHART
Tartan News Editor
How many times have you seen a poster, 
barely visible beneath the announcements for 
the next party-that's-going-to-end-all-parties, 
for a lecture, meeting, or maybe even movie 
that really interested you, only to find it was 
yesterday?
In an attempt to alleviate this problem. Dean 
of Student Affairs Brad Walter and Vice Presi
dent for Academic Services Bill Arms have 
proposed an electronic calendar" that could 
see limited implementation as early as next 
semester.
The basic idea is to collect information, 
probably through an office with Student Af
fairs, and then display it by video monitors in 
areas such as Skibo, Hunt Library, Baker Hall, 
and a computer bulletin board on the Andrew 
system. There's an awful lot going on around 
campus that people don't know about, so we 
are looking at ways to improve just the general 
flow of information,'' said Arms.
As it stands now, the video displays will be 
networked either through the campus ethemet 
or token ring networks. That way, explained 
Arms, it would be trivial to get the informa
tion on the Andrew bulletin boards.
While the video displays would be static 
information that cycle through every 30 sec
onds or so. the bulletin boards would allow 
for a more interactive environment. In other
words, the user could choose events in which 
he has a particular interest.
Because the system would use an existing 
network, the only costs involved would be the 
monitors and a central computer that controls 
the introduction, cycling, and updating of in
formation. Arms said. Clearly one of the 
things we do in such circumstances is go along 
to our friendly computer manufactures and say 
Wouldnt you like to donate this equipment? 
But I dont know if wed succeed on that.
Though this particular project is more elabo
rate, Student Affairs tried networking LED 
displays in Skibo last year. That project fell 
through when the company the University was 
buying the service from went bankrupt.
Student Senate Meeting Minutes, October 20
Meeting called to order 7:05 pm.
Present: Berger, Berkowitz, Bostin, 
Christina, Clark. Frazier, Gallo, Gantshar, 
Graupera. Greenberg, Hausman. Jainchill, 
Kornbrek. Levine (alt). Levy, Liu, Mukherjee, 
Sherlock. Steppel. Trinh, Trull, Zapf.
Absent: Goldstein (exc).
Ex-Officio Members present: Robitshek, 
Skolkin, Vayansky.
Absent: Matsko.
Audience Participation: Rob from Student 
Union explained that the Union wants to 
switch printers to one who will not make 
editorial comments. Union needs increased 
budget.
President: Andrew Robitshek: First SAMS 
meeting last week. 6 members. Event every 
week beginning Oct. 30. First weekRaffle 
and balloon kickoff at half time of football 
game. MeetingWed. 4 pm Scotland yard. 
Tech House meeting with A1 Branick last 
Thursday12 months to decide w hether or not 
to move Tech House. Need ways for students 
to help raise money for it.
SI)C: Delia Vayansky: No report. Request 
made by Bostin to look into rumor of dairy 
people checking rooms for stolen milk crates. 
Request by Greenberg to clarify room entering 
policy in general.
IFC: No report.
Chairman: Anyone running for Senator
must be removed from A Phi O Election 
Board. Petitions due Oct. 26.
Treasurer: Kerry Skolkin: No report.
Academic Affairs: Celeste Clark: First Last 
lecture was today. Glass programFine Arts.
Campus Affairs:Glenn Kornbrek: Today 
met with Mick Leek about Hunt library. If 
budget passed: increasing collection, adding 
approx. 15 double study carrels on 3rd floor, 
add shelving, consolidate basement area, 
improve microform printers in basement, 
video viewing stations. Art dep'tindustrial 
health experts recommend improvements. 
Supported by Warner Hall. Results2-3 
weeks. Zapf met with Keating about trailers. 
Trailers in ampitheater not leaving until GSIA 
builds new building. Ones near Baker used for 
engineering will be leaving. Goldstein: CMU 
police may be able to ticket speeders on 
Forbes. Possible solution: rumble strips.
Funding and Recognition: Tamal Mukher
jee: Discussion on Student Union switching 
printers. Motion to remove Amiga Users 
Group and Weight Lifting and Body Building 
Club from F&R roll. Motion seconded.
Public Relations: Dana Hausman: T-Shirts 
still here. Posters in Senators' folders to hang. 
Thurs. Nov. 5 Happy Hour. Need information 
from committee chairmen. Elections Nov. 11 
& 12. Need advertising ideas. 150 Homecom
ing T-shirts will be sold in book store.
Resnick Memorial to be Placed 
in Front of Hamerschlag Hall
continued from page!
ing, Dave commented, but the base has not 
yet been joined to the bent, so we had to push 
the date further back. Were trying to synchro
nize the date with some other event, like the 
two year anniversary of the shuttle explosion 
[January 28,19881, but the weather is too bad
by then. So probably sometime in the spring, 
possibly for her birthday [April 5,1988], we 
will be able to do the dedication and finish the
job.
Head architect for the project was Matthew 
Epstein, a graduate student in architecture at 
Carnegie Mellon University.
Rules: Shep Bostin: Meeting Thurs. 6 till 
after 7 to work on Constitution to bring up next 
week. Rules members required. Other sena
tors welcome.
Old business: Free Speech Resolution from 
last week changed. Motion failed then passed 
with vote by roll. Greenbergresolution to 
remove #3 from rules for security saying not to 
allow non-CMU public to leaflet or demon
strate. Vote to table passed. Faculty committee 
voting on Free Speech Policy Nov. 11. Motion 
to remove people who are running from Elec
tion Board seconded. Question called to re
move senators from list passed. Clark resign
ing. Christina nominated. Closed floor Motion 
to accept by acclimation passed. Vote - Lisa 
new AA chairman.
Points of Discussion: Squeeze playing Nov. 
23, $7. On sale 8-5 weekdays information 
desk. 2 with student I.D.
Announcements: PR Monday 4:30 and af
ter meeting. CA Wed. 6. SAMS WED. 4 pm. 
Bergerparty Sat. 9 or 10.
Tv'*' ./*'vt;___.<
! 1, ;,, :1 ; i 1 .,Y *  r''> */____s ;s a on s. t I >. / . V < I \W ' .  V.  , V. > *    ,v-i: w. i.
, : 11 il 1 ;. v/\)!;' v. ..il [illv K v)
............: ; *....... .. I* I, . I. , i i .
i ,c f 11 y ii..ui.* i)i viv. v.'.c iv) ' V *'
V..* V.'1
. ;  . . . ! I..   ; ;. fII..).  lY . i , t/l.i i... v   v     TThThehaTh h r tn
::vi U pOC!\C.i. ;
F; _ # ; ...........; . , ; , S ! . . , I . I . , . . . . II *. v * . *  V.  : >. I '  I \  iv ii>. . >v  i I > v. i I I I li I I i
  * *  C  i" \  : ;  * * * *  v; \   * v !1 ;  ! 11  I
Senate Adopts Free 
Speech Resolution
photboyEr ashA icLEw
called for a roll call vote. The resolution 
passed 13-4.
After the first resolution passed, 
Greenberg introduced a resolution to the 
Campus Police Rules that said Campus * 
Police could not stop non-CMU persons 
from free expression on campus. After a 
lengthy explanation, the resolution was 
tabled until Greenberg could get photo
copies of both his resolution and the 
Campus Police Rules.
In other business, Rob Pfeifer, a Stu
dent Union Non-Editor, asked that Sen
ate change the Unions funding so that 
they could print with publishers other 
than Typecraft. Typecraft, the publisher 
mentioned in the Unions budget, re
fused to publish the last issue because it 
contained blatant profanity, ex
plained Pfeifer. Another publisher, who 
agreed to publish the issue Typecraft 
wouldnt, charged over $100 more for 
the one particular issue; the purchase 
order for the increased spending had to 
be signed by Dean Lois Cox. Since then, 
the Union has found a printer that will 
cost them $60 per issue less than 
Typecraft.
Tamal Mukherjee, Chairman of Fund
ing and Recognition, asked Senates 
opinion about the budget change. He did 
not introduce a motion. After a lengthy 
debate, it appeared Senate agreed with 
the budget change.
Senate gives the Student Union about 
$10,000 per year, stated Mukherjee, an 
80% subsidy. About 80% of the Unions 
budget is for costs incurred for printing.
Student Senate meets every Tuesday at 
7:00 in the Wherrett Room.
4)
N._/
V. ti I \ i !  1   .  iv v*.'**i V V t ) !  v \ Ui.vt\ :;v-.: w ^dossier 87ISS is underway and wclcomcs literaturefrom any student enrolled at Carnegie Mellon.
To submit work (preferably on a macintosh disk): ' YY
; vv* 1 i\i<YA t\:;v-.  send through campus mail to........ '  dossierlaver v.ii'iii look soivicv.'hi.i likec/o The Tartan 
103 Skibo
; iii Y;Oi .is  drop off at
. ...  The Tartan office.. - ; ,;i ,,,vSkibo room 50
. .................. ol contact;:c Y.v..\ ::c:.INS ,1;.:.MicheleOsherow
;.......  .. .. ! . -Viy:'Y CrrMr 681 8075.XTi. .. v. ; ........ .....*
It
*
----------- Cl

---------------------------------------------------

October 27,1987The TartanPage 7
--------------
and Incident Report: October 10 to October 23
10/10 THEFT 12:55 pm Persons unfirst floor sliding glass
11:48 pm Two com
bes and 
an Audi
plainants stopped_ . t Murcwuuu aiiu xcj
5000 was hit bv somethin
ATO porch. Driver, a doctor, described
perpetrator as white male wearing a blue
jacket and knee brace. Doctor told officer,
i egg. Perpetrator 
then ran into ATO house. Driver and pasATO brothers when they attempted to enter 
ATO house. Campus Police officer then 
arrived on the scene. Officer went into ATO 
house and escorted ATO brother, who was
house. Doctor identified ATO brother as 
perpetrator. ATO brother was issued a state
door.
10/12, 10/3-10/5 BURGLARY Persons 
unknown entered four Lower Bureau of 
Mines parking lot construction trailers and 
removed one toolbox and mechanics tools, 
$424.00; one Homelite 16 chainsaw, 
$318.00; one 2 Wimco gas water pump, 
$392.00; two 50 discharge hoses, $92.02; 
four rainsuits, $42.40;. one Gillette genera
tor, $ 1,272.00; one Lietz level, $636.00; one 
Bosh 12 chopsaw, $475.94; six #1 Master 
locks; one CodaPhone answering machine, 
$137.50; carpenter tools, $346.04. Total
value: $4,181.39.
10/12 BURGLARY Persons unknown en
tered Lower Bureau of Mines parking lot 
construction trailer and removed Panasonic 
EasaPhone and answering system sometime 
between 10/9 and 10/12. $137.80 value.
10/12 BURGLARY 7:31 am Persons un
known entered Lower Bureau of Mines park
ing lot construction trailer and removed 
Panasonic Autolog answering machine. 
$130.00 value.
10/12 BURGLARY 4:08 pm Persons un
known entered students room in Tudor Hall 
through bedroom window and removed 13 
remote color TV, $250.00, one dark blue cashmere coat, $650.00, and $40.00 in cash. Total 
value: $940.00.
10/12 BURGLARY 4:38 pm Persons un
known entered Margaret Morrison Apart
ment. One resident lost Nikon N20/20 series 
35mm camera and lens, $600.00. Second resi
dent lost Panasonic audio cassette system and 
Nikon model FG 35mm camera, $450.00.
10/14 THEFT 12:21 am Person unknown 
removed six U2 tickets from students desk in 
fourth floor Morewood Gardens dorm room. 
$120.00 value.
10/15 THEFT 6:13 pm Person at Theta Xi 
reported plain, bluejean, Sergio Valenti, jean 
jacket stolen, $35.00 value.
10/16 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 3:30 am 
Victim reported numerous dents in hood and 
roof of 1980 Dodge Omni parked in Morewood Gardens parking lot. Footprints evident 
on both parts of vehicle.
10/16 VEHICLE ACCIDENT 11:27 am 
Female student driving west on Forbes, saw 
male friend riding bike heading east on 
Forbes. Female waved at male and failed to 
make turn at Forbes and Beeler, ran into tele
phone pole. Right front fender, grill, and 
bumper damaged; vehicle had to be towed.
10/16 THEFT 11:46 pm Two unknown 
white females reported on second floor of 
Theta Xi house. Theta Xi brother reported $20 
bill and $1 missing from his pants lying on his 
desk. Females not found.
10/17 BURGLARY 3:00 pm Persons un
known entered a first floor Mudge House 
room through a screen window. Removed a 
13 color TV and $1 in loose change. Total: 
value $251.00.
10/18 BURGLARY 12:13 am Persons un
known forcibly opened the rear doors of the 
gym off the loading dock. Checked interior, 
nothing appeared missing.
10/18 BURGLARY ASSIST OUTSIDE 
AGENCY 2:29 am Officer observed two 
males carrying numerous tools across the Cut 
Persons continued to area behind Morewood 
Gardens where second officer attempted to 
stop them. Officer stopped one, otter ran. 
Perpetrator stated that he entered Schenley 
Park Golf Club and stole items. Perpetrator 
was a CMU student, stated accomplice was 
not CMU student. Officers entered students 
Mudge dorm room found other person and 
more tools. Perpetrators turned over to Pitts
burgh Police; Golf Club is pressing charges.
10/19 THEFT 1:50 pm Red, Fugie, 19, ten 
speed removed from sidewalk in front of 
Scobel Hall. Approximately $200 value.
10/19 BURGLARY 8:15 pm Persons un
known cut through an aluminum security 
screen and entered dorm window in More
wood Gardens. Panasonic Ambiance re
corder/tape player and $10.00 in money from 
a purse were found missing.
10/21 THEFT 4:23 pm Person unknown 
removed a red leather briefcase from under a
table at Hunt Library. Personal items in 
case and case worth $25.00.
10/21 THEFT 5:08 pm Person unknown 
removed astudents purple, pink, and white 
suede leather jacket from Morewood Gar
dens kitchen. $150.00 value.
10/22 THEFT 9:07 pm Student reported 
Karrimor blue canvas backpack had been 
removed from Hunt Library. Victim had 
left backpack on a table, when victim re
turned the books that were in the backpack 
had been removed and placed on the table, 
and backpack and calculator were missing 
$20.00 value.
10/23 DISORDERLY CONDUCT 
12:44 am Campus police received call that 
a fire extinguisher was being discharged on 
the fourth floor of Hampshire Hall. Perpe
trator identified as student living in the Hill 
Dorms. Hill Dorm security officer dis
patched to wait for perpetrator at his room. 
Perpetrator issued a state citation for disor
derly conduct.
Be aware...
Last Wednesday at 6:50 pm, a female 
grad student observed a white male running 
around without any pants on while she was 
jogging in Schenely Park. The man was 
wearing a white dress shirt with long, scal
loped tails, a dark tie, a tan cloth zipper 
jacket, black dress shoes and socks; he was 
also carrying an article, that appeared to be 
his pants, in his hands. The man appeared 
to be running from someone or something, 
reported the grad student. He did not ex
pose himself to or approach the grad stu
dent at any time; he just kept running and 
falling down.
SPRING SEMESTER ADVANCE REGISTRATION
Advance Registration for the Spring 1988 Semester will be on Wednesday and Thursday, November 11 and 12,1987. 
All students, undergraduate and graduate, are expected to register on these days if they wish to enroll at CMU this 
spring, except for CIT/MCS freshmen, who have received separate instructions. If you won't be returning for reasons 
other than graduation, please file a Withdrawal/Leave of Absence Form, clearly marked "Spring 1988", with your 
department. If you are unable to register November 11 or 12 (i.e. youre studying off-campus), ask your advisor to 
process your registration, or call the Registrar's Office for special instructions.
The Schedule of Classes Spring Semester 1988 will be available November 2 at the Skibo Information Desk and 
inside Baker Hall's main entrance. The schedule contains next semester's course offerings, instructors, times, and 
rooms, as well as complete registration and enrollment information. Please obtain a copy, and carefully read and 
follow its instructions.
A single registration form, the Registration and Demographic Data Document (R3D), will be used for registration. Your 
R3D is available in your department office (in the H&SS Academic Advisory Center at BH 161 for H&SS freshmen and 
sophomores) and should be used to update demographic information and to list your Spring Semester schedule for 
advisor approval.
***** Advance Registration Instructions *****
1. Pick up your R3D from your department and update/correct the demographic information.
2. Pick up a Schedule of Classes Spring Semester 1988 at the Skibo Information Desk or inside Baker Hall's main en
trance on or after November 2.
3. Plan a schedule with alternatives, and meet with your advisor to have the schedule approved. You cannot register 
until you have received advisor approval. Many advisors will extend office hours during advance registration but 
contact yours for specific approval information.
4. On Wednesday and Thursday, November 11 and 12, between 9:30 am and 4:00 pm, go to each department teach
ing a course(s) you wish to register for to obtain registration approval.
5. After obtaining all approvals, return the R3D to your department. Even if you don't get all approvals, turn your R3D 
in anyway; you can try to add an unapproved course in January.
If you need further information or assistance, contact your department or the Registrar's Office, 268-2004.
November 11 and 12 , ___

---------------------------------------------------

Online Computing Power from 
CompuServe Puts You Ahead of the Pack.
Introducing Passing Gear from 
CompuServe, the worlds largest online 
personal information service.
No matter what type of computer you 
have, CompuServe turns it into a fast 
responsive resource that gives you incredible 
advantages.
Especially now, while a CompuServe 
subscription is available to students at spe
cial savings.
Make \bur Own Breaks
Once online, CompuServe subscribers 
talk across the ta We with luminaries like 
author Isaac Asimov; artificial intelligence 
researcher Marvin Minsky, space shuttle 
astronaut and engineer Joseph Allen and 
musicians Greg Kihn and Herbie Hancock.
Writers and editors, researchers and 
teachers, leaders in business and govern
ment, enterprising students and student 
entrepreneurs. Youll meet them all on 
CompuServe, where the informal interview 
is the natural way to get around.
Get Facts Fast
CompuServe connects you to reference 
resources you wont find anywhere else. And 
information you simply cant get any more 
conveniently than online.
Resources like IQuesP* with access to 
leading databases from around the world. 
Electronic news publications. Hardware and 
software forums for every major manufacturer. 
And forums for special interests from comH----------------r:------------
puter electronics to human sexuality. ,
Rus online travel planning. Shopping and 
banking services. Even interactive adventure 
games.
Lead a Revolution
Dont chase the communications revo
lution. Link your computer and modem to 
CompuServe and lead it.
Our special student membership offer 
includes a $15.00 introductory usage credit, a 
200-page Users Guide and a subscription to
CompuServes monthly newsmagazine,
Online Tbday. A $59.95 value for just $12.95, 
plus shipping and handling
Online usage rates are as low as 10 cents 
a minute. Order during the term erf this offer 
and receive a FREE fssing Gear T-shirt 
just for being a campus innovator.
To order, call 800 848-8199 and ask for 
Representative #6. In Ohio, call 614 457-0802. 
Orfilloutand mail this coupon.
CompuServe*
D Rush me CompuServe Passing Gear.
Please include my confidential password and I.D., the 200-page Users Guide and a Passing 
Gear T-shirt (one size fits all). Upon completion of my membership online Ill also receive a 
$15.00 online usage credit and a FREE subscription to CompuServes monthly news
magazine, Online Tbday.
EU Send more information about CompuServe.
(OsrEsg nbww :E g,biiEr nbt,bo 14 rcTg h sEpEbitH PwEcgE borbpctE t,E g,biiboL crrsEgg bo t,E gicpE ishmbrErH)
Name_______________________________________________---------------------
Current Address____________________________________________________________
City___________________________________State_________Zip--------------------------
Phone (_______)_______________________
Total cost $14.95* ($12.95 plus $2.00 shipping and handling.)*OH.CTandFLresidentsadd stale sales tax.
EH Check enclosed or charge my: EH VISA EH MasterCard EH American Express
faniNnmhprl I I I I I 1 1 I I 1 I I I ITI Exp.Date 03 / CDI Ii Signature___________________________________________________________________
Mail to: (XB737)CompuServe' OoahsActbho NEsmbpEg. (tto: BEicstAEot L dhx 477. POH dhx 181l1. GhwyA:yg. O,bh 4e2l0
O Pricing described herein is available through June 1.1988. (new subscribers only, one Passing Gear package per subscriber). iV i nmMtfrnuraiaif RRe niiTi lo irrfv rrm Inani sniesckcH ~r~ ' ~ni V  4
&
I
%
C
V

I
>1

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
AB: Good Job, But
Will all those who knew there was an AB dance Saturday night please 
raise your hand.
Is your hand raised? Did you go to the dance? No? Youre not alone.
It just so happens AB did a pretty good job on the dance. AB Tech set up 
quite a spectacular light show, the DJ was the ever-present 331/ Produc
tions, and the wall decorations added atmosphere. The dance started at 
8pm, but at 10:00 there were only a dozen people there.
Why?
Because with all their careful preparation, AB Publicity forgot to tell 
people! Sure, there were a few posters here and there around campus, but 
not nearly enough; direct evidence of this is the lack of attendence. No 
advertisements were placed in any campus publications. One cant blame 
this fiasco on apathy alone. No one knew!
With a $12,500 total advertising budget, things could have been done a 
lot better. Instead of a few obscure, professional-looking, high-quality 
posters, hundreds of photocopied 8 72 x 11 sheets plastered all over 
campus would have had a much larger effect.
But besides publicity, AB really needs to get some events which will 
attract more people.
They had a dance with an average DJ; other times they have a band in 
a room filled with chairs. The best idea, done last year, is for an AB super 
event a combination of the two. Take all those people who would turn 
out for an Affordable Floors concert, stick a dance floor under their feet, 
add more than a smidgen of advertising, and you have a potential good 
time.
It is possible. AB often has quality events. All that is needed is a little bit 
of brainstorming and a lot of legwork, and all their expense and trouble 
will not be wasted.
Letters:
Vandalism Puts Cloud Over Holidays
Editor:
A little, roofless, three-walled tabernacle. 
Sitting quietly in the shadow of the Pitt Ca
thedral. A place where college students 
meet to pray, eat. and socialize. In this 6' x 
8' hut. little girls in their father's arms look 
up in wonder at the fruits strung from the 
leaves covering this little room, built to last 
for one week, in remembrance of the taber
nacles the Jews lived in while wandering in 
the desert.
This little structure, flimsy yet strong, is 
what I expected to see on its plot of grass 
between Pitt and Carnegie Mellon Univer
sities, when I walked there Monday morn
ing to pray with a friend before breakfast 
and classes. Instead, it was on its side, 
smashed to the ground. Leaves everywhere 
(the roof is made of branches, laying across 
the top, so the stars will be visible), decora
tions ripped apart. Colorful fruits crushed 
into the grass.
We built this structure so as to allow 
college students, community families, and 
their children, from CMU and Pitt (and 
anyone else interested), to celebrate the 
holiday of Sukkot, for one week. We only 
wanted 48 square feet to rejoice in our 
holiday. But some people dont want to 
allow happiness in anothers religion. Per
haps a little more tolerance for others be
liefs and feelings is in order.
Carnegie Mellon/University of
Pittsburgh Hillel Leadership Council 
Aaron Solomon Benjamin Abramson 
Jeffrey Cohen 
Leon Morris 
Stephanie Wolfe
Edna Bailas 
David Heyman 
Jackie Sabatini 
Larry Zeigler
Campus Police Must Justify Actions; 
University Must Clarify Policy
Editor:
I am deeply disturbed about the reports 
published in Focus and The Tartan con
cerning attempts of campus police to pre
vent distribution of literature attacking 
SEI. While it is my understanding that this 
literature is now being freely distributed, I 
believe it is essential to find out who au
thorized these actions of the campus police 
and to make sure no such attacks on aca
demic freedom happen again.
It seems to me desirable that the Univer
sity make an explicit statement affirming 
that these actions of the campus pol ice were 
a mistake. The campus police should be 
trained in the principles of academic free
dom and realize that a university is not sup
posed to be the same as a bank or factory.
1 know that many may feel that leafletting 
and picketing are not the most rational 
methods of promoting a point of view. The 
university, however, has thousands of dol
lars to present its views on SEI, while those 
who oppose it have only their personal time 
and energy with which to bear witness to 
their beliefs.
When I first wrote three years ago indicat
ing my opposition to the SEI I stated my 
fear that the increasing dependence of the 
university on the military might lead to a 
chilling atmosphere with respect to free 
expression. I confess my disappointment in 
seeing my fears confirmed so soon.
Lincoln Wolfenstein 
University Professor
No One Knew
Slightly to the left...Shooting Up On Capitol Hill.
By MICHAEL FRANZINI &
MICHAEL WITBROCK
In 1983, handguns killed a total of 93 people 
in Japan, Great Britain, Switzerland, Canada, 
Sweden, and Australia. In that year, handguns 
killed 9,014 people in the United States. All of 
these countries, ex
cept the U.S., have 
strict handgun con
trol laws. The United 
States is estimated to 
have sixty million handguns in circulation; 
thats more than one handgun for every 5 
citizens. A new handgun is manufactured 
every twenty seconds. Every 150 seconds, a 
handgun injures someone.
These deadly statistics suggest that the 
United States is a pretty dangerous place to 
live. One of the largest lobbying forces in the 
country agrees. They spend millions of dollars 
in advertisements which tell stories of rapists 
threatening the lives of innocent women. 
These advertisements offer a solution to the 
problem. The advertised solution: weaker 
handgun laws. The advertiser: The National 
Rifle Association.
The National Rifle Association represents 
several million American gun owners and 
over a thousand gun dealers and manufactur
ers. The NR A advertises its fight as one for 
constitutional freedom. But on Capitol Hill, 
the NRA isnt fighting for freedom. The NRA 
is fighting against the ban on Teflon-coated 
cop-killer bullets. The NRA is fighting 
against the ban on machine-gun sales, against 
the ban on interstate sale of handguns, and 
against the import-ban on Saturday Night 
Special parts.
The NRA is fighting against the Sarah Brady 
Bill (S. 466/ H.R. 975), the bill introduced by 
the wife of Hinckley-victimJim Brady, the bill 
which would impose a waiting period and 
background check for all handgun sales na
tionwide. They claimed the bill is a waste of 
time, useless an^jfl^xSlUUUPflaU-----X
The NRA shrouds all of its pro-gun legisla
tion behind the Second Amendment. They 
declare over and over again that the amend
ment guarantees to every citizen the right to 
own a gun. However, the NRA rarely quotes 
the entire amendment: A well-regulated 
Militia, being necessary to the security of a 
free State, the right of the people to keep and 
bear Arms, shall not be infringed. The gun * 
lobby apparently believes that the well-regu
lated militia encompasses all citizens of the 
country. They apparently havent read the 
Fifth Amendment, which identifies the pur
pose of the Militia to be service in time of 
War or public danger.
The Courts agree that the rights of the Second 
Amendment should be assigned a collective, 
militia interpretation. The American Bar * 
Association commented on the NRAs strate
gies: ...arguments premised under the second 
Amendment, or the similar provisions of the 
thirty-seven state constitutions, have never 
prevented the regulation of firearms. Cer
tainly, the authors did not set forth the Amend
ment as protection for the rights of the sporting 
hunters who comprise the NRA.
The gun lobby is not getting a free ride on * 
Capitol Hill. Their opposition is steadily 
growing, most notably from Handgun Control 
Inc., a lobbying group which boasts over one 
million members. Handgun Control is respon
sible for virtually every law against which the 
NRA is fighting.
Handgun Control prevented the NRA from 
overturning the 1968 Gun Control Bill, which 
banned interstate handgun sales. They pro* 
vided the law enforcement experts and consti
tutional scholars who convinced a congres
sional committee that the NRAs arguments 
were unfounded. Now, Handgun Control is in 
the midst of a struggle with the NRA to secure 
passage of the Brady Bill.
Pennsylvania Senators Heinz and Specter 
both have consistently voted with the NRA. 
.loioqnu!! )s r

---------------------------------------------------

October 27,1987The TartanPage 11
While the economy's in trouble...Foreign Trade Needs Closer Attention, New Policies
By RUSS COOPER
When it comes to being better producers and 
sellers of products, we still remain in an infe
rior position vis-a-vis our trading partners. 
What we get is a great deal of posturing and no 
real action, from 
business and govern
ment alike. After all 
the fanfare (i.e. trade 
legislation, retrain
ing, or reorganization), not much is measura
bly different. Even though the dollar value of 
imports has decreased, revised August figures 
point to still no change in real net imports 
that is the actual physical quantity of goods 
being brought into this country.
We have many excuses. A popular one 
heard from government lately is the J-curve 
effect, which says well see the improvement 
in 12-18 months, or at least pretty soon! Then 
theres the business community. They lay off 
workers and do all kinds of studies and paper 
shuffling. They turn towards Washington and 
say, Free trade, yeah its a great idea. Really 
great, except in our sector; we need some help 
because we have this special problem. Its 
called competition, and ... We will get real 
improvements when we start to face the real, 
hard problems.
We have many answers. So far most have 
been triumphs of the PR department, and not 
the production floor. Improving our competi
tiveness has become, in some instances, en
tangled with buzzwords of the day: robotics, 
quality circles, management-labor coopera
tion, producing shotgun approaches with 
dubious outcomes. For instance, General 
Motors has invested billions of dollars to 
modernize and automate their facilities.
So far, all they have to show for it is market 
share that continues to decrease, being outearned by Ford, and the fact that they are still 
the highest cost producer of cars in the coun
try. I suggest that we have not yet addressed 
the key issues in what it will take to turn around 
our present industrial and economical picture.
Ironically, we may be afforded such an op
portunity because of the same circumstances 
our situation now presents. The real number of 
imports has yet to substantially decrease be
cause up to now the foreign producers lowered 
their profit margins to maintain market share
U.S. Needs Strict Handgun Control
photboyEr ashA icLE 10
They voted to strike down the 1968 Handgun 
law, they voted to strip the Bureau of Alcohol, 
Tobacco & Firearms of the right to conduct 
spot-searches of the records of Firearms deal
ers, and they have vowed to vote against the 
14-day waiting period for handgun purchases 
proposed by the Brady Bill.
Handgun Control has begun to convince the 
politicians (apparently not Messrs. Heinz and 
Specter) that the government must protect its 
citizens constitutional right to life and that 
laws which make it a little bit harder to obtain 
deadly weapon will serve this purpose. But 
Handgun Control, composed almost entirely 
of concerned humanitarians with no real 
vested interest in the legislation, faces an 
uphill battle against the NRA, which is backed 
by the firearms industry, the very existence of 
which is threatened by the legislation.
For Handgun Control to have a fighting 
chance, they need the support of concerned 
individuals, individuals who recognize that 
availability of plastic pistols which evade 
detection at airports or of Teflon bullets which 
pierce bullet-proof vests is of no service to 
society, individuals who can take the lesson of 
the recent series of handgun deaths in Florida 
due to new NRA-backed legislation.
Support Handgun Control. Stop the NRA 
frpm bolding America at gunpoint.
in the face of a declining dollar. If our trade 
picture continues to fail to show progress, we 
may see another markdown in the value of the 
dollar. If this occurs, our foreign competition 
should have to raise prices to remain profitable 
companies. This is our window of opportu
nity, with which we can do one of two things.
We can follow traditional paths and raise our 
prices to the same levels, cyclically bloat per
sonnel, and entrench ourselves with impru
dent labor pacts simply to secure continuous 
production. Although we may increase profits 
measurably, maybe even enough to offset the 
reduction in wealth felt from the advent of 
inflation in this scenario, we still fail to do
Inquiring Minds...
By THE INQUIRING STAFF
Boom. It all came crashing down on Mon
day. Millions of yuppies drowned their sor
rows in flavored Perrier. Others drove their 
BMWs off cliffs (which, ironically, raised the 
stock prices of both). 
In any case, it was the 
end of an era.
However, any time 
that many well-off in
sufferable clods become poor insufferable 
clods, theres got to be a story. Experts had 
been predicting for a long time that the market 
would experience a major correction. We 
believe that as much as we believe President 
Cyert went to China just to see a new ketchup 
plant. Our theory is simply that the harmonic 
convergence was two months late. Think of all 
the little things that happened last week.
We all knew that if the NFL would keep 
playing through a strike, something awful
anything about regaining our domestic mar
kets, making substantive inroads into foreign 
markets, or sending any kind of signal saying 
we re ready to compete by offering good prod
ucts at low prices anywhere in the world.
But we can also take an unconventional 
approach and put our money where our 
mouths are. We can make an honest effort to 
keep our prices low to undercut foreign com
petition and regain markets lost to foreign 
producers over the last two decades. Instead of 
talk about retaliatory tariffs and quotas, we 
would fight for markets with good products at 
good prices. Instead of complaining how hard 
it is to enter other's markets, we should force
would come of it. One of the first laws of stock 
forecasting is when an old NFL team wins the 
Super Bowl, the market goes up, and when an 
AFL team wins it goes down. With the possi
bility that the Chargers had a shot at the Super 
Bowl, the market went through the floor.
The sports world provided an even greater 
blow early Monday morning when George 
Steinbrenner announced that yes, Billy Martin 
would be back again. Tell that to a bunch of 
New Yorkers, and yeah, theyll get depressed.
Then theres everybodys second favorite 
secretary, Jessica Hahn (Fawn Hall is still #1 
in our hearts). In an exclusive interview with 
God arranged by Oral Roberts, the Almighty 
told us, I never really liked the little bimbo, 
anyway. If shes gonna take her clothes off in 
Playboy, someone is going to have to pay.
We also had the business with little Jessica 
McClure. She got a phone call from the Presi
dent after she was taken out of the hole. Norforeign consumers to notice the value of our 
products. Instead of becoming complacent, 
and profiting strictly from burgeoning prices 
and capacity, we should try to maintain price 
advantages with efforts to keep production 
costs low, and innovation and quality high.
If the dollar makes another downward move, 
reflecting the state of continuing imbalance of 
physical trade, America will get the chance it's 
been crying for! Here's the scary part though; 
we may finally have to do something rather 
than just respond with rhetoric and quick fixes. 
Economic competitiveness, like many other 
aspects of life, is quite simple.
Money (or in this case, prices) talks.
mally, the only people who get Presidential 
calls have just won the Super Bowl. This made 
a lot of traders with Drexel Burnham Lambert 
jealous, so they decided to throw themselves 
into as big a hole they could make.
There was also that rumor floating around 
about the Hunt brothers having a bet with 
Donald Trump that they could throw the mar
ket before he could.
Unfortunately, neither got to tryTreasury 
Secretary Baker beat them both to the punch 
when he forgot to auction off T-bills Monday 
morning to finance the National debt. When 
asked about it, he replied, I overslept; it 
happens. No one cares when Ronnie does it."
Things got worse when the government 
announced that, as a revenue enhancement, a 
transaction fee would be levied on all dumb 
corporation name changes since Jan. 1, 1985. 
Hurt particularly hard were Allegis, Primerica, USX, Unisys, and Carnegie Mellon.
Playtex was hurt too, when it realized that 
Nancy Reagan would no longer be buying 
Cross-Your-Heart Bras.
Something finally forced the market up late 
in the day. Bernhard Goetz was sentenced to 
six months for violating NY gun laws. All of 
the brokers felt they had to buy stocks. After 
all, who'd want to carry around all the cash 
from selling stocks home on the subways?
The Inquiring Staff is S. Levine. C. Williams, 
and R. Wilson
The Tartan
Editor-in-Chief.....................Russ Seligman
.......David N. Levy
Business Manager...............Mark R. Benish
.......Karl Barnhart
Assistant News Editor..............Erie Leuliette
Judy Haraburda
Assistant Sports Editor...............David Brill
Diversions Editor...-................Bruce Kasrel
Photo Editor.......................(ilenn Schuster
....Michele Osherow
Production Manager........
Ad Manager...........................Celeste Clark
Contributing Editors.......
Lisa D. McAnany 
Albrecht T. Powell 
Neil Greenblum
Olve Peerson 
John Friedmann 
Andrew Gillespie
f Ca *e Mellon Univorsit It
is a weekly newspaper, published each Tuesday during the tall and 
spring semesters by students at no cost to members of the university
community It is printed by Typecratt Press. Inc Subscriptions are 
available lor $15 per semester. $25 per year The Editorial appearing 
at the beginning ot the opinion section is the official opinion of The 
Tartan editorial board Column# are the opinions of individual authors 
who are not necessanly on The Tartan editorial board or staff Letters 
to the Editor are opinions of individual authors who are usually
must be signed and include the writer's 
verification. Names will be withheld 
serves the right to condense or reject 
1987 by The Tartan The editorial boa
address and phone number for 
upon request The Tartan reany letter or column Copyright 
trd reserves the right to withhold
from publication any copy * deems unto tor publication
Office: Skibo 50-52 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17 / Carnegie 
Mellon University / Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. AH rights 
reserved Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.
HERBLOCKS CARTOON
6AINST HAVING TO 
WAIT FOR A m
JOlM THE HRA HANPGIW AM MACHINE-GUN LOBBY IN ITS CAMPAIGN TO ELIMINATE TIRESOME MlTiNG PERIODS
//at/e et /ami/y uarrel ?
Angry at a neighbor-or 
player in a ccrd fasne?
Someody ai workmaM? 'fiun
^$>6erA 
SUPPORT THE NATIONAL "RIFLE" ASSOCIATION M>
THE JOHN HINCKLEY SPORTMPM'S SXlETY*FOR
> out FhricUt headfuas'fers.Address; //o/ster 0^7
Harmonie Convergence Was Two Months Too Late
99?   

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanOctober 27,1987
Meaning of Gay Rights March Misinterpreted
By KARL BECHTEL &
AMANDA COHEN
It is a shame that when over half a million 
people go to Washington D.C. to let America 
know of their struggles, the media prevent 
their voices from being heard. The lack of 
accurate communica
tion caused confusion 
as to the meaning of 
the March for Les
bian and Gay Rights, 
and some limited attention created incorrect 
notions about the purpose of the March.
As it stands now, only a few major cities have 
passed lesbian and gay rights bills that ban 
discrimination on the basis of sexual orienta
tion. Without such laws, gay men and women 
can be legally fired from their jobs, denied 
housing, or prevented from adopting children, 
even if they are only suspected of being gay or 
lesbian.
This denial of Constitutional rights was a 
primary causal factor behind the protest. 
March organizers drew up a series of demands 
and purposes for the march, and the topmost 
on the list was "the passage of the Congres
sional Lesbian and Gay Rights Bill." Were this 
Bill to become law. all discrimination on the 
basis of sexual orientation would become ille
gal.
Among other things, this would mean that 
the words sexual orientation" would have to 
be included in documents such as the schools 
undergraduate handbook, which states that 
Carnegie Mellon University does not dis
criminate on the basis of race, color, national 
or ethnic origin, sex, or handicap in the ad
ministration of any of its educational pro
grams and activities.
The media paid most of their attention to the 
second demand of the marchers, which was a 
call for an end to discrimination against 
people with AIDS, ARC. HIV positive status, 
or those perceived to have AIDS. In addition, 
the marchers wanted people to recognize the 
need for a massive increase in funding for 
AIDS education, research, and patient care.
In a display of personal stamina, AIDS victims 
marched to criticize the Reagan 
administrations reluctance to form accept
able national policies regarding AIDS.
While the news of the NFL strike appeared 
on the covers of most major news publica
tions, the March for Lesbian and Gay Rights 
received limited coverage. The articles that 
did appear often de-emphasized the actual 
goal of the demonstration. The March was 
commonly billed as a rally for AIDS funds, but 
it was more than that.
Celebrations of freedom and pride re
sounded through cheers of gays and support
ers. Signs and banners continually displayed 
claims and pleas for action, and many identified special interest groups, from Gay May
ors to Dykes on Bikes. The jubilant mood 
inspired some to show their pride with humor: 
one husky man held a sign reading Thats 
MR. Fag to you.
Under the blanket of lesbian and gay rights, 
the marchers protested for other human rights, 
related and unrelated. The repeal of anti-sod
omy laws, a presidential order banning anti
gay discrimination by the federal government, 
and legal recognition of lesbian and gay rela
tionships were some of the most important 
goals. An end to all sexist and racist oppres
sion was also called for, as well as rights to 
reproductive freedom.
Discrimination against gays and lesbians is a
far-reaching problem.
There are about 25 million homosexuals in 
this country. It is a shame that one tenth of our 
population is denied civil rights that some 
smaller minority groups have. All members of 
the population, not just a percentage, should be y 
able to live their lives as they choose, with the 
expectation that they will be able to keep their 
jobs and have a place to live.
Underneath the exhilaration and recognition 
of gay and lesbian strength, the March embod
ied the quest for these basic civil rights. While 
AIDS funding for research and education is 
desperately needed, the true impetus for the 
March was the struggle for lesbian and gay , 
rights.Insurance Discrimination Not Unfair
By THOMAS A. HEIM
There is a new debate stirring over insurance 
rates. It seems that some people would ap
prove of additional government intervention 
into the insurance business. Proponents of this 
intervention, particu
larly the feminists 
and the homosexual 
lobby, intend to push 
a we are no differ
ent collectivist policy in order to take another 
bite out of Americas freedom. The key mo
tive, to remove sexand disease-based insur
ance rates from insurance company policies, 
will simply take money from low-risk takers 
and put it right into the pocket of the high-risk 
takers. Nothing could please the homosexuals 
more.
Insurance companies have come about be
cause people choose to pay small fees in order 
for someone else to take a risk for them. The 
party that takes the risk for a certain price does 
so because the cost of paying for claims will be 
outweighed by the collections made from 
individuals that will make no claim. Individu
als pay an amount based on the degree of risk 
that they represent. Men between their late 
teens and mid 20s pay more than women for
YEMdLOGKN G(MTOOP
"HELLQ C0N6RESS? HOW HAVE YOU BEEN? WHY PONT YOU PROPAR0MP? BY THE WAYBRING ALONG A WRENCH"
IX.
life insurance. This is because they are more 
likely to die, its as simple as that. Smokers pay 
more than non-smokers, people in their 70s 
pay more than people in their 30s. Whatever 
amount of insurance an individual is looking 
for, his rate will be based on how much of a risk 
he is. The less risk, the less the rate will be.
There are, of course, many factors that deter
mine how likely a person is to become the 
unfortunate victim of some tragedy. Depend
ing upon the insurance company, certain crite
ria may be chosen, others ignored. When I 
applied for insurance, I gladly answered the 
medical questions and took the medical tests 
because I knew 'that the more information 
available on my health, the more likely I was 
to get an appropriate rate.
The question one should ask of the feminists 
and homosexuals is: Why should I pay out of 
my pocket for a risk you pose to yourself? I 
want to pay for what my risks are, and no more. 
The feminists are pushing for unisex insurance 
legislation so that policies and rates must be 
blind to the sex of the individuals they repre
sent. In other words, women will pay more all 
their lives for the fact that men die younger. If 
there really is so much demand for unisex 
policies, one can rest assured that the money to 
be made off such a deal will cause an insurance 
company to start such a policy. There is no 
need to legislate it.
The homosexuals, well represented ideo
logically by Witbrock & Franzini, take the 
position that'Conservative interests are at
tempting to use AIDS as a justification for
discrimination against its suffers and against 
the larger gay and lesbian population. Well, I 
wouldnt say that conservatives are attempt
ing to do so, I would say discrimination does 
now and should always exist in the insurance 
industry, both against AIDS sufferers and the 
larger gay and lesbian population. There is 
nothing unfair about this discrimination; its 
about the fairest resolution of the AIDS issue 
that exists. The risks of typical homosexual 
conduct obviously have some ramifications 
on the health of their population as a whole, 
more so than the heterosexual population. To 
pass the risks of someone who chooses homo
sexual activity to someone who does not 
choose it has nothing to do with freedom from 
unfair discrimination, for not one thread of 
freedom runs through such an action.
There will be those who will push for the 
homosexual policies in the name of compas
sion and understanding. There is nothing > 
wrong with an individual voluntarily donating 
to any cause he wishes, but we should not 
allow the government to force financial 
compassion on us and ask Mr. and Mrs. 
America to bear the cost of homosexual activ
ity in their insurance premium. Justice is just 
the opposite. Special interests have no right to 
enact unprecedented constraints on the insur
ance industry for their own self-interest and 
detriment to others. The proper role of govern
ment is as far away as reasonably possible 
from industry. Lets keep it that wayby >
stopping all homosexual and feminist insur
ance legislation.
Letters: (contd)
Worker Upset Over Lack of Concern
Editor:
On the morning of Friday, October 9, 1987, 
I had an unfortunate incident. While crossing 
Frew St. during rush hour, I slipped and fell to 
the ground, severely hurting my right leg.
I wish to thank all of the cold-hearted people 
who watched me lay there in the middle of the 
street. Traffic was backed-up on both sides of 
me but not one person was considerate enough 
to get out of their car and help me up. One truck 
driver had the tenacity to go around me!
I cant believe that any human being can be
so cold and uncaring.
I sincerely wish to thank the police officer y 
and the two young men that finally came to my 
aid.
The attitude of, I dont want to get in
volved is prevalent in todays society.
It is my hope that you publish this letter to 
call peoples attention to the callous behavior 
of their peers. *
Helen P. McDonell 
Physical PlantO
Tricked Into Supporting GALA
<>1937.
Editor:
I am very annoyed at the manner by which 
GALA ran Gay and Lesbian Pride week. They 
announced that wearing blue jeans on 
Wednesday, October 21, showed support for 
the gay and lesbian cause. This is very insult
ing to the members of the campus community 
who wear blue jeans everyday and are not 
aware of the statement they are making. It 
would be equally offensive for someone to 
announce that people wearing sneakers are 
supporting some presidential candidate; then 
that candidates supporters can show pictures 
of the thousands of CMU students supporting
tKTrcar3T3t7
In fact, GALA managed to generate more 
lack of support than support by blue jeans 
Wednesday. Many students who normally do 
wear jeans went out of their way not to wear 
jeans in order not to support GALA.
Id suggest that organizations promoting a 
similar cause should do it in a much less 
underhanded manner, such as distributing 
buttons or T-shirts. Then students will have 
the freedom of choice to decide whether they 
wish to publicly support that cause rather than 
being tricked into doing so against their will.
Mark Abramowitz
Math/Computer Science 87

---------------------------------------------------

He was just this guy in 
my class with coollooking hair. I never 
thought we had any
thing in common 
until we ran into each 
other at Great Expecta
tions.
Sarah and Tim: Hottest 
couple, Class of 87
WO APPOINTMENT ft YNECESSARY Will IcxpccTnmits
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
TheTheDESIGNER PERMPRECISION CUTJUST-A-CUT
only $25.00o.i, $13.00$8.00
Complete with writtenComplete with shampooCut onlyguaranteeand blow style
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED! 
Great Styles Start at ...
APPlJlN'MlNtNfCtbSAR'r
MUST HAVE COUPON0cGftCIIT
IISAVE $2.00b n PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS11on a237 Atwood Street1PRECISION HAIRCUTAcross the street from1Complete with shampoo & stylingOakland Post Office1Offer Expires1October 31687-3500
Attention Student Organizations!
Advertise your upcoming events over the 
air on the:
WRCT Radio Calendar!
The Radio Calendar is read each day at 
8:00 am, 1:00 pm, 7:00 pm and 11:00 pm.
The Calendar Features: 
Films 
Gallery openings 
Lectures 
Local concerts 
Fundraisers 
Recitals
Any events of interest to the 
CMU community
Send the details of your event, at least one week in advance, tc
WRCT Radio Calendar 
Room 48 
Skibo Hall
Funded By Your Activities Fee
WRCT1
^ Left Of The Dial..
CONNOR & ASSOCIATES
INVITES YOU TO ATTEND OUR PRESENTATION & RECEPTION
Unique Opportunities in Options Trading
Tuesday, October 27,1987 
7:00 P.M. 
Skibo-Room #12
OConnor offers exceptional individuals with strong analytical skills, entrepreneurial spirit and a keen interest in the 
financial markets the opportunity to participate in the challenging and dynamic field of securities and options trading.
A private partnership, OConnor is the leader in the options and futures marketplace. We specialize in the valuation 
of options on equities, debt instruments, foreign currencies and commodities using internally developed mathematical 
models. Our activities also include index arbitrage, convertible securities trading and special situations arbitrage. OCon
nor possesses the expertise and the financial resources to aggressively pursue new worldwide market opportunities.
Achievers thrive at OConnor where there is an urgency for the immediate application of problem-solving that is rarely 
equaled in any other industry. If you have an interest in becoming part of an exciting, innovative and growing area 
of financial trading opportunities, plan to attend the OConnor presentation.
For more information contact your Placement Office.
Equal Opportunity Employer
Chicago New York Philadelphia San Francisco Amsterdam London Stockholm

---------------------------------------------------

Political Speakers Forum Board 
Wants to Hear From You !!!!
What is the Political Speakers Forum Board ?
The Political Speakers Forum Board is a newly formed 
committee of Student Senate and Activities Board. Its 
purpose is to bring political speakers of interest to the 
campus community. In order for the committee to fulfill 
its purpose, we need to know who you would like to hear. 
Please fill out the form below and leave it in the Forum 
Board's mailbox at the Skibo Information Desk. Your 
response will be greatly appreciated.
Political Speakers Forum Board Poll
Name:
Address:
(Please includephone number.)
Major:Year:
Speaker(s)of interest:
Funded by Students Activities Fee
WRCT NEWS PRESENTS:
WEEKLY
WEEK IN REVIEW 
AND CAMPUS AWARENESS ISSUES
SUNDAYS 8:30-9:00 PM
NOV. 1- Andrew Robitshek - 
NOV. 8- Edward Lilley * The Human Side of CMU 
NOV. 15- The Future of 5125 Margaret Morrison St. 
-Formerly TECH HOUSE 
NOV. 22- Eric Wittle - Quality of Life Task Force 
 CALL-INS WELCOME - x2883~*
(And dont miss our news broadcasts at Noon, 5 and 9 PM daily) 
Sponsored by your Student Activities Fee
TtTOOT
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING 
Sun.- Thurs. 7-10 P.M.
CALCULUS PH 107-A
PHYSICS PH 107-B
CHEMISTRY PH 225-B
ECONOMICS PH 126-B
ACADEMIC WRITING PH 126-C
INTRO. TO COMPUTING WeH5409
Sponsored by Counseling & Student Development Center and Student Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

Features
- Hall-O-Teens Circa 1926Center Works to Improve Quality of 
Teaching at Carnegie Mellon
By BRYAN THOMAS SCHMIDT
Tartan Staffwriter
How many times have you been in a class 
with a teacher whom you could swear had 
no idea what he or she is doing? Well, the 
thinkers at CMU are trying to do something 
to help eliminate this regrettable problem. 
They established a Teaching Center in 
Baker Hall 228A to research and work with 
faculty and administrators to improve the 
quality of classroom instruction at Carne
gie Mellon.
To take targets of opportunity and hit 
those targets has always been the idea, 
said Edwin Fenton, PhD., the centers di
rector. We identify these targets by find
ing out what faculty, administrators, and 
students want us to do.
Fenton and Assistant Director Susan 
Ambrose do not like to think of the Teach
ing Center as an office. I like to think of 
the Teaching Center as the faculty, and the 
two of us represent that faculty and try to 
work with the faculty to improve teach
ing, said Fenton.
In 1982, CMU President Richard Cyert 
approached Fenton with the request that he 
toss around the idea of creating a program 
to improve teaching at the University. 
Fenton replied by asking that Cyert support 
half of his income while he took the time to 
research the degree of need for such a 
facility. Cyert agreed.
What he did was give me a kind of 
hunting license, Fenton explained. He
said, Ill give you a budget and you figure 
out how to improve teaching in the Uni
versity,.then he and I talked about what 
projects to undertake first, and Dick, as he 
usually does, gave me very sound advice.
Among the methods of research Fenton 
applied to the situation was interviewing 
one hundred faculty members for one hour 
each about what they felt such a program 
should do. He also polled the student 
body, asking four questions: Who is the 
best teacher you have had at CMU and 
why? What is the best required course you 
have taken and what made it so good? 
What is the best elective course? What are 
the characteristics of courses in which you 
learned less than you thought you ought 
to?
This brought in some very interesting 
responses, among which it was discovered 
that one fifth, or 80 out of 400 faculty 
members, were considered to be either the 
best teacher or the best course at CMU. I 
think that says theres a lot of teaching 
talent here, Fenton commented, and I 
think thats really interesting.
This has a lot to do with students. 
Among the things students should know 
is that we respond as we can to students 
complaints about teaching, Fenton said. 
But when a student complains we cant 
tell him how we go about dealing with it. 
That has to stay confidential. Students 
are one of the biggest indicators of where 
GhotboyEr ho icLE 18
Glickstein Offers Thoughts OnBirthday Cards and ID Cards
While Halloween is celebrated every year 
joyfully, the history of the event lies by the 
wayside, forgotten. The tradition which we all 
embrace eagerly on October 31 was estab
lished at Carnegie Mellon many years ago and 
only a few members of the community know 
the legend. The Botanical library on the fifth 
floor of Hunt has one faded manuscript: a
divider, which charts the events which have 
created the tradition.
One cold and rainy day as I was browsing 
amongst the old vellums, I came across this 
work and stopped to read. The room was quiet 
and the librarian was shuffling to the door, 
empty coffee cup in hand. I sat down and 
m< picked up this folio. It had been tom, as if in 
haste, and someone had written "Carnegie 
Tech 1926 Halloween" in a faded script.
...late last night. I had been doing an experi
ment, just an old idea we had been toying with 
at the house. Sam and some other fellows had 
an old football that needed air, and we were 
trying to figure out if we could fill the thing 
with hydrogen. Just a crazy whim. Anyway, 
we found some siphons in back of the bath
room, I guess one of the brothers had been 
making gin, and picked it up and left for the 
Chemistry labs. We were just talking about 
getting a little fusion going that night.
I guess we were pretty loud because we 
didnt even hear this old man come up behind 
us until he spoke. At first I thought it was my 
history professor bothering me about my term 
paper, but then I realized that this guy had 
about 200 years on Dr. Myrtle. Myrtle himself 
is rumored to have hung out with the dino
saurs. The guy is ancient, but this one was in a 
worse state of decay. He puts his little clawlike 
hand on my arm and looked up and started 
talking a mile a minute.
Young man, dont think you and your 
friends are going into Baker Hall tonight. 
Tonight is my night, the night of Astolpho... 
And on and on. How do you like that one? 
Astolpho! It sounds like some kind of laundry 
detergent. Well, we were not about to stand 
outside in the freezing October winds and the 
pouring Pittsburgh rain because some old 
crazy teacher decides he wants to howl around 
Baker Hall all night. I pulled my sleeve back 
and said, Mr. Astolpho, we have homework
to do. It is late, and we Just then the codger 
interrupts, screeching, Dont go into Baker 
Hall tonight. You might regret it, Im warning 
you.
Seeing as nobody enjoys spending time in 
Baker Hall to begin with, this was not as much 
of a threat. We walked in. The two fellows I 
was with werent looking very happy by this 
time, and Joe started talking about how he 
might have left something back at the house. 
Baker Hall was very dark, but I didnt notice 
anything unusual about that. The place is a 
tomb to begin with. Its not exactly the kind of 
joint youd go for fun. Well, Joe made a quick 
180 and he was history. We could hear him 
running. But Sam and I kept going down the 
mile long hall, talking about this idea with the 
deuterium and the tritium.
We looked in a few labs but they were 
crowded with some awfully strange looking 
fellows. Strange is quite the norm around here, 
though. We went upstairs. I figured that we 
would find an empty space all the way at the 
end because nobody likes it up there. But, there 
again, the place was mobbed with these really 
odd looking guys. Long hair, old dirty rags on, 
the whole bit. I was beginning to wonder 
because we have some nerds here at this 
school, but they generally have most of their 
teeth at least. I didnt want Sam to get upset, so 
I just pretended not to notice. Sam seemed a bit 
pale, but when this cat came up to us with a 
huge lab book in his hand I saw Sams jaw 
drop. The guy was pretty unattractive and 
hadn t bathed or shaved in a few months which 
didnt exactly improve his appearance. So, he 
walks up to Sam and says, Im glad you joined 
our group.
Now, Sam is not really the type to jam with 
nerds. He has no musical talent. This old gee
zer was dressed up like he belonged with a 
cello, anyway, and I know that Sam in a string 
quartet could result in disaster. He can barely 
manage a ukelele at a party.
I looked at the guy, noticed that he was wear
ing a velvet suit. I looked around the room and 
noticed that all the others were white haired 
and velvet clad. Velvet suits are not often seen 
around campus in the 20s, but what was 
making Sam stare wasnt the fashion faux pas. 
It also wasnt the fact that these old bags were 
literally dusty. They had layers of dust on their 
shoulders and white heads. Both Sam and I 
have observed that professors can lecture for 
long periods of time without moving, and this 
just seemed another bit of evidence supporting 
the argument that they could possibly go on 
forever.
What was making Sam stare was on the table 
in the middle of the room. Amongst all the 
GhotboyEr ho icLE 18
By BOB GLICKSTEIN
Tartan Staffwriter 
I was going to write an incisive, comprehen
sive article this week about Judge Robert H. 
Bork and his failure to be confirmed by the 
Senate as a Supreme Court Justice. The article 
would have been a scathing indictment of the 
media and the way in which they and President 
Reagan exploded this routine affair into a 
political struggle. It would have remarked on 
Reagans dwindling influence in Congress. 
This esoteric news, however, has been pre
empted by the more momentous occasion of 
my recent birthday.
One of the great advantages of being a re
spected public figuresay, a writer for a 
major weekly publication such as People or 
The Tartanis that one gets to announce 
ones birthday to whomever one cares to an
nounce it. Mine was October 22nd. I am 
twenty-one.
As everyone knows, college is the place you 
go to for four years to learn how to drink. The 
rationale behind the twenty-one-year drinking 
age is that by then, most people are nearly done 
with college and have been drinking for years; 
they have in fact completed the required 
course of study (this phrase will appear on 
your diploma and refers to the amount of 
alcohol you have imbibed).
Well, as I have stated, I turned legal" just a 
few days ago. I thought that a perspective on 
this occurrence might be of interest to the 
campus since the majority of undergraduates 
here are illegal.
One thing I will most certainly miss is that 
feeling in the pit of your stomachlike the 
bottom dropping outwhen a conversation of 
the following type ensues:
YOU: Ill have the Jack Daniels Homicide, 
please. Shaken, not stirred.
WAITER: Are you twenty-one?
YOU: Yes.
WAITER: May I see your I.D.?
YOU: Here it is.
WAITER: This is just a scrap of paper that 
someone has written July 17th, 1965 on in 
ballpoint.
YOU: What! It was a drivers license. It must 
have gotten into the laundry.
Ah, those were exciting times.
Dont think that learning to drink is the only 
thing college teaches you. It also must teach 
you how to get away with drinking illegally, 
which prepares you for doing illegal things 
later in life, such as selling arms to Middle 
Eastern countries in exchange for hostages 
and giving the money to people youre not 
supposed to. Yes, learning to drink illegally 
prepares you for a successful future, for as we 
all know, the more illegal things youre pre
pared to do, the further you will go.
And what school could be more concerned 
about its graduates than Carnegie Mellon? 
That is why CMU gives the students covert 
assistance in illegal drinking. Recently 1 inter
viewed a Very Important CMU Official, who 
wished to remain anonymous, but well call 
her Brunhilde.
Brunhilde,said I, suppose students who 
were under twenty-one were caught drink
ing.
Brunhilde said, Is this off the record?
Uh, sure.
If CMU students who are under twenty-one 
were caught drinking, the official University 
policy is to shout at them.
My goodness! I reacted. Suppose CMU 
students are caught drinking illegally by the 
Pittsburgh Police? What then?
Then the policy is for the University to post 
bail, hire an attorney and, if necessary, pay for 
cosmetic surgery, relocation and re-identifica
tion."
Thank you, Brunhilde.
Bottoms up.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanOctober 27,1987
Where to Find the Ghosts and Ghouls
By JUDY HARABURDA
Features Co-Editor
Many people think that Halloween origi
nated as a Scottish-Irish custom traced to preChristian Druid ceremonies. Such is not the 
case. My sense of journalistic integrity com
pels me to reveal the true origin of this occassion.
Ralph Waldo Hershey and Ellwood Hall
mark, enterprising college roommates, de
cided that their fall semester was unbearably 
long and a holiday would fit nicely, say, at the 
end of October. They created a myth around 
this new holiday, October 31 to give it a sense 
of authenticity and called it Halloween (Latin 
for bogus vacation). To promote their new 
holiday, Hallmark sent out cards and Hershey 
gave out pieces of chocolate wrapped in foil. 
Students nationwide, not surprisingly, took 
quite readily to this new holiday. Hallmark 
and Hershey, realizing they could make a 
bundle on their cards and chocolate, dropped 
out of school and became multimillionaires.
My sense of journalistic integrity also com
pels me to inform you of the numerous Hal
loween festivities going on around Pittsburgh: 
WHTX (96.1 FM) is hosting a Halloween cos
tume contest open to contestants 21 years of 
age on Saturday, October 31 at the Holiday Inn 
at Monroeville from 8 to 11 pm. WHTX 
judges Vince DeLisi and Larry Richert will 
award prizes including a trip for two to West
Palm Beach, a Getaway Weekend at the 
Monroeville Holiday Inn, and dinner for two 
at the Monroeville Holiday Inn. Call for more 
info at 244-4531.
The North Hills Village Mall Merchants 
Association will host a Halloween costume 
parade at 12:30 on Saturday, October 31. 
Trick or treating around to mall merchants 
will follow the parade. For info call 244-4000.
Pittsburgh Magazine and KDKA TV will 
host the third annual Great Pittsburgh Hal
loween Parade on Saturday, October 31. All 
are invited to march, beginning at noon from 
One Mellon Bank Center (be at Fifth Avenue
and Ross Street by 11 am) continuing along 
Fifth Avenue, Wood Street and Fourth Ave
nue, ending at PPG Plaza. After the parade, 
costume contests will be held and judges from 
Pittsburgh Magazine and KDKA TV will 
award prizes including: a Royce Hotel Week
end Getaway package, a DeBolt Unlimited ex
cursion to SeaWorld, dinner in the Orchard 
Cafe at the Vista International Hotel, Steelers 
autographed football, Pirates, Steelers and 
Penguin tickets, tickets to the Pittsburgh Ballet 
Theatres performance of The Nutcracker, 
passes to Kenny wood Park, passes to Idlewood 
Park, and a $25 gift certificate from Mrs. Fields 
Cookies in One Oxford Centre. All in costume 
will receive a free pumpkin and trick or treat 
bag. For more info call 622-1360 or 392-2588.
Truly-A-Treat (3533 Forbes Avenue) is of
fering Halloween Make-Overs by professional 
make-up artists from noon to 8 pm on Friday, 
October 30 and Saturday, October 31 . Prices 
for adults range from $10.00 to $75.00 (de
pending upon desired effect); students with 
valid I.D. start at $9.50; children under 12 start 
at $6.50. Proceeds will benefit Pittsburgh 
Public Theater. Call 687-2299 for an appoint
ment. For more info, call Rob Zellers at the 
Public Theater at 323-8200.
On campus, SDC is showing Nightmare on 
Elm Street III in DH2210 at 6,8,10 and 12 on 
October 31. Scotland Yard is throwing a Mas
querade Ball at 9 pm also on Halloween night.
110 Bouquet St. OaklandNow doing the new Leisure Curl 621-2087
Where can you find a climate that supports individual achievement in the world of financial services?
MERRILL DTCH & CO., INC
Will Be On Campus 
To Conduct Interviews 
for theFINANCE AND CORPORATE STRATEGY GROUP
onOctober 28,1987
Please contact the Placement Director of the Graduate School of Industrial Administration for an interview.
Merrill LynchYour world should know no boundaries.
Merrill Lynch is an equal employment opportunity employer
Halloween-lets
By JUDY HARABURDA
Features Co-Editor 
nyl-umestacky, nylon, flame-retardent childrens costumes with match
ing masks; generally of the Batman, 
Care Bear, G.I. Joe, and Scooby Doo 
variety.
googuisehair dye, fake fangs, fake 
nails, and Halloween makeup generally 
sold at 5 & 10 that generally causes 
rashes and are nigh impossible to re
move.
bully baggersbig kids who steal 
trick or treat bags from little kids; also 
smash pumpkins and wreak havoc on 
Mischief Night
hallofogiespeople who give pennies 
and apples; also the kind of people who 
say Now who do we have here? and 
Oh youll have to do a trick for your 
treat.
trick pooperspeople who give away 
half a tray of candy at once just so they 
can turn off the porch light and go to 
bed.
instant of quantum luminositythe 
exact moment at which dusk comes on 
Halloween night; the first possible 
minute to start trick or treating.
sweet swapdumping contents of 
trick or treat bag on living room floor 
and trading candies (subject to rules 
such as one Reeses= four Tootsie 
rolls).
candy maturityage at which one be
comes too old for trick or treating. 
plasticationstate of near asphyxi
ation resulting from Halloween masks. 
power tool paranoiafeeling that Ja
son is lurking around the house with a 
chain saw when you are watching Fri
day the I3th alonein the dark. 
Great Pumpkinismsclassic annual 
Halloween TV specials that everyone 
has seen twenty times.
McScamways that stores merci
lessly capitalize on Halloween (e.g. 
McDonalds gift certificates and 
McBoo kiddie meals)
halloweenieskids who hit every 
house on the block at least three times 
trick or treating.
monster mashwaxy, inorganic sub
stance from which candy corns and 
many other Halloween treats are made. 
loot checkmandatory parental in
spection of trick or treat candy 
HalloweenHallmark-created holi
day; also the only time of the year chil
dren are encouraged to take candy from 
strangers.
CRUISE SHIPS
Now Hiring. M/P Summer & Career Op
portunities (Will Train). Excellent pay plus 
world travel. Hawaii, Bahamas, Caribbean, etc. CALL NOW:206-736-0775 Ext. 536H
Now...
Two Pregnancy 
Testing Locations
OaklandRoom 212Parkvale Plaza Buildings 3520 Forbes Ave. (cor. Meyran) Pittsburgh. PA 15213 (412) 683-3730
Women's 
Health 
Services c
Downtown107 Sixth Street 300 Fulton Building Pittsburgh. RA 15222 (412) 562-1900
Free pregnancy testing daily. Call for hours and instructions. Confidential counseling available.

---------------------------------------------------

October 27,1987The TartanPage 17
Duquesne Lecture Series...
Kilbourne Discusses Medias Portrayal of Women
By T. VANDERHEYDEN
Special to the Tartan
Much of media advertising trivializes the 
role of women, hinders meaningful relation
ships, and fosters attitudes where violence 
against women is acceptable and even fash
ionable, asserted Dr. Jean Kilbourne in a 
presentation October 15 at Duquesne Univer
sity. Dr. Kilbourne accompanied her talk with 
slide pictures of magazine advertisements 
from the last twenty years to show these nega
tive themes are not recent.
Advertising tells us who we should be, yet 
reflects the mythology of society, distorting 
' its reality, said Dr. Kilbourne. Ad campaigns 
like Virginia Slimss Youve come a long 
way, baby support the myth that progress for 
women has been made, while portraying them 
as either sex objects or demented house
wives obsessed with cleanliness. Ads hold 
up images of absolute flawlessnessairbrushed women without wrinkles, blemishes, 
or even poresagainst which all women are 
judged. The message is, according to Dr. Kilboume, you will not do the way you are. You 
must transform yourself, disguise yourself. 
She punctuated this remark with a slide of a 
black woman holding up to her face a mask 
with Brook Shieldss face.
Womens self-esteem depends on confor
mity with this ideal, say the advertisements. 
Five Bodies To Die For was the title of a 
A recent article featuring Victoria Principal. 
Ads pit women against each other; Dont 
hate me because Im beautiful, says Kelly 
LeBrock in a recent television commerical. 
Love relationships, according to ads, also ride 
on cosmetic perfection. My husband is see
ing a younger woman these days me, pro
claims one woman in a slide from the presen
tation, implying that her husband would leave 
~|her if she showed signs of age. She then
explains that she is over 25. Old women, 
Dr. Kilbourne commented, are bankrupt, 
treated with derision and contempt, but 
wander back occasionally looking for laxa
tives.
Indeed, throughout advertising, said Dr. Kilboume, there is contempt for women and all 
things feminine. One ad shown was cap
tioned, Some men treat their boots better 
than their women, but thats understandable. 
She also cited the feminine hygiene campaign 
and showed an ad announcing, Feminine 
odor is everyones problem. If the word 
feminine were replaced with the name of an 
ethnic group, she continued, there would be a 
public outcry, yet this insult is thought per
fectly acceptable.
Equally demeaning is the packaging of 
womens body parts to garnish and in fact to 
become interchangeable with advertised 
products. Dr. Kilbourne showed on the screen 
a waist-down shot of a woman whose bikini 
bottom was silkscreened with the logo of a 
popular brand of alcohol. This treatment of 
women as divisible packages (which rarely 
happens to men, Dr. Kilbourne explained), as 
things to be sold with products, dehumanizes 
and is the first step to actual violence against 
women.
Perhaps the most shocking picture of all was 
that of a window display. In it a female man
nequin, blood streaming down its face, was 
stuffed in a trash can next to pairs of shoes 
witlrthe caption, Id die for these shoes. 
Such displays featuring minorities would be 
unthinkable. These displays may not cause 
violence against women, Dr. Kilbourne said, 
but they, viewed as a whole, do create a 
climate in which attitudes like this are seen as 
normal. She also discussed another disturb
ing trend in which girls as young as five or 
seven are made up and marketed as sex sym
WANTED
If that's a picture of you over there, 
you should be writing for Features. 
We're looking for wacky, zany, 
crazy writers. So if it seems we 
stole the picture from your high 
school yearbook, come to a staff 
meeting Mondays at 5:00 in the 
Tartan Office. You won't regret it.
He's such a special guy 
he registered with 
Selective Service!
I hope she never finds out 
the whole class has done it. . .
If you're a guy about to turn 18, you must register with Selective Service at the post office. There's really nothing'special about it. All you do is fill out a simple card. It only takes five minutes. 
So don't be the only one who hasn't done it. Register with Selective Service. It's quick. It's
bols.
Dr. Kilbourne does not restrict the damage 
to women. If women (to say nothing of little 
girls) are sex symbols, then men are success 
symbols, made to worry that they are not com
petitive enough to buy large diamonds for 
their spouses or fiances. Their emotional 
range goes from a smirk to a sneer, for they 
must be ruthless. They are savage hunters of 
somehow sinister women: Poison is My 
Potion. In contrast, men are bumbling fools 
when it comes to womens work. Intimacy 
is rarely stressed; passion is reserved for 
people, not products. Ironically, she pointed 
out, television executives allow sexual ads but 
prohibit ads for contraceptives.
In addition to alerting the audience to the 
effects of harmful advertising, Dr. Kilbourne 
advised what can be done and provided re
sources for change. She stressed womens 
studies, attention to child care, counseling for 
battered women and for men who batter, and 
the election of officials who care about human 
needs, over aspirin, cigarettes, and alcoholadvertisers solutions to problems. Most im
portant, she said, is to stop exploitation of 
little girls and to eliminate violence against 
women. She urged the audience to take a 
personal role by protesting to the company 
responsible for a demeaning advertisement in 
care of the TV station or publication running 
it. At stake, she concluded, is no less than 
the ability for men and women to have authen
tic and freely-chosen lives.
Dr. Kilbourne handed out at the talk a pam
phlet entitled, Resources for Change. Re
quests for this pamphlet can be made to: 
Doctor Jean Kilbourne, care of Lordly and 
Dame, 51 Church Street, Boston, MA 02116. 
Any comments you have or advertisements 
you consider pertinent are welcomed at the 
same address.
Where can I be tested for exposure to 
the AIDS virus? How confidential is 
the testing?
The Allegheny County Health De
partment does test for AIDS free of 
charge. It is confidential and no one 
receives the results except the person 
requesting the test. You can identify 
yourself by using your real name or a 
fictitious one. The testing is conducted 
by appointment only, Monday through 
Friday, at the Oakland office on Forbes 
Avenue. In addition, there is a Lawrenceville office open on Thursday 
evenings from 5:30 - 7:30 pm. The 
number to call if you are interested in 
being tested is 578-8332.
Testing can also be done at the Stu
dent Health Service. The fee is $26 
which is charged by Med-Chek Labo
ratories. The testing is kept confiden
tial, as is all medical information in 
patient records. However, a copy of the 
test is kept in the students medical 
chart.
Whats Up, Doc?" is a bi-weekly 
column designed to answer health re
lated questions submitted by students. 
Dr. Judith Esman and Anita Barkin, 
C.R.N.P., will provide medical infor
mation important to readers and rele
vant to the University population. Sub
mit your question by mailing to The 
Tartan, Skibo Room 50. It is not neces
sary to identify yourself when submit
ting a question.
Make Health Food, Win Cash
NEW YORKCollege students can win 
thousands of dollars in scholarship money by 
creating a healthful recipe that uses Sweet N 
Low and can be prepared without a conven
tional kitchen.
The Sweet N Low Grade A Recipe Con
test features a Grand Prize of $5,000, First 
Prize of $2,000 and Second Prize of $1,000. 
University, college or culinary school em
ployees who are members of The National 
Association of College & University Food 
Services are also eligible to win $2,000 in 
scholarship money for their schools to be used 
for education or training.
The recipes must be suitable for preparation 
in a residence-hall room using only small ap
pliances such as a toaster oven, blender, wok, 
compact microwave or small refrigerator. 
They will be judged on the basis of healthful
ness, taste, originality, ease of preparation and 
appearance.
Posters with entry forms and complete rules 
are being sent to food service directors at more 
than 600 colleges that are members of The 
National Association of College & University 
Food Services. Entry forms are also available 
by sending a self-addressed stamped envelope 
by December 15, 1987 to: Sweet N Low 
Entry Form, P.O. Box 1901, New York, NY 
10116.
Entries must be postmarked by December 
31, 1987 and received by January 10, 1988.
Upcoming Lectures...
Wednesday, November 4: Achieving Ef
fective Arms Control, a lecture presented by 
Pennsylvania Peace Links. Alan F. Niedle, 
Project Director for the Committee on Na
tional Security in Washington, D.C. will 
speak. Held in the Board Room of the YMCA 
building located at 30 Blvd. of the Allies. 
Noon to 1:00 pm. Free. For more information 
call 471-0302.
Thursday, November 5: Artist Larry Cressman speaking on his site-specific installation 
for CMUs Hewlett Gallery in the Adamson 
Wing, Baker Hall. 7:00 pm. The installation 
will be on exhibit November 7 to December 
10 in the Hewlett Gallery. For more informa
tion, contact the Department of Art at 268- 
2409.
Saturday, November 7: A course on holistic 
health entitled To Your Health presented at 
Chatham Colleges Laughlin Music Center.
and Enlightenment, Inc. 9:00 am to 9:00 pm. 
Cost is $25 per person. For more information 
contact Jerry Knutson at 341-9975.
Monday, November 9: Mouton Rothschild 
Paintings for the Labels, an exhibit of ap
proximately 40 works by contemporary artists 
for labels of Mouton Rothschild wines, pre
sented at CMUs Hunt Institute for Botanical 
Documentation. Until December 18. More 
information, 268-2434.
Monday, November 16: The 1987 Distin
guished Lecture, presented by the Pittsburgh 
History & Landmarks Foundation. Elizabeth 
Rogers, Administrator of Central Park, will 
speak about park restoration. At the Sheraton 
at Station Square. 8:00 pm. Cost is $2.00. 
RSVPat 471-5808.
Thursday, November 19: "How to make 
your own arohlatic wreath, presented at 
Frick Nature Center. 7:00 pm. Cost is $ 13 for 
. non rc^ikm^ _ Pic-jxgi&lo. <iL422

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanOctober 27,1987
Hillel Relocates to North Craig, Continues to Serve Jewish Community
By RHONDA LANDY
Special to The Tartan 
After 45 years of working out of the Jewish 
Community Center located at 315 South 
Bellefield Avenue, Bnai Brith Hillel has 
moved to the Omega Building at 160 North 
Craig Street. This move is not to be confused 
with the impending November opening of the 
new Jewish Community Center building in 
Squirrel Hill. Rabbi Joseph Levine, or Rabbi 
Joe, as he prefers to be called, said that Hillel 
will not move to the new Community Center. 
We have a commitment to Oakland by virtue 
of the fact that our indigenous population is 
here. Levine has worked with the CMU/Pitt 
chapter for over 11 years.
The purpose of Bnai Brith Hillel is to pro
vide a sense of community for Jewish stu
dents. The North Craig location was chosen so 
that Hillel could be a bit closer to Carnegie 
Mellon, which has the larger Jewish popula
tion growth of the two schools. According to 
Levine, Weve noticed a trend over the last 
five years or so that the Jewish population at 
Pitt has pretty much leveled off. Now this year 
we [seem to] have more Jewish freshmen at 
Pitt, but demographically, our stats are more 
with CMU.
The fact that the new location is more central 
does not mean that Hillel will rely more heav
ily on it than in previous years. Hillel uses its 
location primarily for small Sabbath worship
services, and as a center for administrative 
activities and counseling services. Major 
functions, such as High Holy Days services, 
will continue to be held on Carnegie Mellon 
and Pitt campuses. As Levine said, Its better 
to [operate Hillel] as an outreach program. My 
sense is that to reach large numbers of stu
dents, you have to go on campus.
Hillel is pleased with its new location. Lev
ine feels that the Omega Building is more 
modem and attractive than the old location, 
and also has tighter security. Furthermore, it 
was one of the few places in Oakland which 
Hillel could afford that would allow it to build 
a kitchen that would conform to the rigid 
specifications of Kashrut (the Jewish dietary
laws), so that Hillel could continue to provide 
Kosher meals on Sabbath evenings and Jewish 
holidays.
The Jewish Community Center housed a va
riety of Jewish interest groups until about five 
years ago, when the University of Pittsburgh 
expressed interest in purchasing the building, 
now known as the Bellefield Annex, as part of 
its own expansion plan. Theres been an 
observable pattern of Pitt and CMU gobbling 
up all the available property, comments 
Levine. The way one Pitt administrator put it 
to me, Its not so much that we had a specific 
need in mind for the building; its just that we 
couldnt afford not to buy it...if we didnt buy 
it, CMU would have bought it.
Center Teaches Teachers to Teach
GhotboyEr ashA icLE 15
the types of problems lie that the Teaching 
Center was intended to deal with. Fenton esti
mated that the Center receives approximately 
a half dozen legitimate complaints a semester.
How do teachers respond when confronted 
with such complaints? In all of the cases w ith 
which the Center has dealt, only two faculty 
members have refused to do something about 
the problem. In most cases, theyre either 
interested in doing something or very skilled 
liars. Fenton said. I think its the former. 
Neither Susan nor I pretends to know every
thing. What we try to do instead is work 
cooperatively with faculty members. We want 
to keep the responsibility [for teaching] in the 
departments and colleges where it belongs.
According to Fenton, about 50 to 60 faculty 
have helped with various workshops, and 
seminars associated with the Teaching Center. 
That's the way it ought to be run, having 
faculty members share their expert knowl
edge, he said. Recently about 140 faculty
Whats
New
at
Carnegie
Mellon?
Noon-1:30 p.m. 
Wednesday, 
October 28, 1987 
Wherrett Room, 
Skibo
members attended a series of six workshops 
organized by the Center. Fenton believes such 
favorable responses evidence a real interest 
in teaching among CMU faculty.
In addition to these workshops, the Center 
also held an orientation in August for incom
ing faculty. The idea was conceived by Nor
man Johnson and developed by Fenton, 
Ambrose, and several faculty and administra
tors. Among the topics covered were Balanc
ing Research and Teaching, The University 
Community in a Changing World, Planning 
a Course, How Students Learn, and philo
sophical questions such as Where Are We 
Going, How Did We Get Here, and Who Are 
We? The new faculty members in attendance 
were also given a tour of the campus and 
treated to a reception and dinner hosted by 
Dean of Fine Arts Akram Midani and his wife.
The Center is looking to expand its program 
in the future. The big thing is developing a 
teaching component of PhD programs, Fen
ton said.
Call the Ghostbusters! Baker is Haunted
GhotboyEr ashA icLE 15
beakers, tubes, kits and tools of dissection 
was the most awful sight.
Spread on top of old exams, copies of tests 
and D+ papers was a disgusting buffet. I 
dont mean disgusting dining service - 
Lentil Loaf or Parsnip Puree -1 mean really 
horrible. These ancient professors were 
buzzing around the table like vultures after 
a slaughter. I could hear their bones creak
ing when they moved (sometimes I hear 
this during dissertations, so I recognized 
the sound) from one end to the other. They 
were surveying their victims.
Bound and tied to the table were students 
who had not done the problem sets, homeworks, and readings from first term. Here 
lay those who slept through classes, drank 
through study sessions and whispered dur
ing tests. An awful sight to behold. Horri
fied, Sam and I began to back out. The freak 
who had approached us grinned his tooth
less smirk.. Moths flew from behind his 
ear, and I saw wriggling under his collar. 
We saw him lift his hand and in it lay 
another. The hand he held had a class ring 
on the finger and a beer was eternally 
gripped by rigor mortisnever to be 
dropped or put down. A piece of a poor 
student just gripped in that old ancients 
claw. A limb that became a symbol of a 
GPA gone awry.
We were at the door of the room yanking 
and pulling at the knob, with that ancient 
coming after us, when suddenly it sprang 
open, revealing the sanctity of the hall. 
Suddenly we were outside and the door 
slammed behind us, blown by a gust of air. 
We turned to look at the door, to see if it 
was opening as we ran to the stairs. I will 
never forget the sign tacked on the heavy 
oak frame.
October 31, 1926. All students invited 
to the opening of the H&SS Lounge..."
Want to knowA question andFaculty, staff,
about what isanswer periodand students are
happening atwill follow eachcordially invited.
Carnegie Mellon?presentation.

\
Noon-1:30 p.m.
In the second ofThe Office of StuWednesday,
a series of infordent ActivitiesOctober 28, 1987
mal lunch hourand the UniverWherrett Room,
discussions onsity RelationsSkibo
October 28, keyDivision will pro
Carnegie Mellonvide free brown(And mark your
administratorsbag lunches forcalendar for the
and faculty willthe first 75next session on
talk about:attendees at theMonday,
 Freedom ofOctober 28 sesNovember 23.)
sion. (Youre welExpressioncome to bring
mm The Quality ofyour own lunch,
Life on Campusof course.) Free
 The Latestsoda, coffee and
Plans for the J&Ltea will be
Siteavailable.|
University Relations 
Carnegie Mellon University 
5017 Forbes Avenue

---------------------------------------------------

CJ
SEMESTER IN SPAIN
(BEGINNER OR ADVANCED)
Not just for Spanish majors only, but for everyone: beginners, in between students, and advanced. Put some excitement into your college career!!
BEGINNER OR ADVANCED-Cost is about 
the same as a semester in a U.S. college: 
S3.870. Price includes jet round trip to 
Seville from New York, room, board, and 
tuition complete. Government grants and 
loans may be applied towards our 
programs.
CN2664n
college you attend
your name
your present street address
city state zipIt you would like information on future programs give permanent address below
your permanent street address
city
Live with a Spanish family, attend classes 
four hours a day. four days a week, four 
months Earn 16 hrs. of credit (equivalent 
to 4 semesters taught in U.S. colleges over 
a two year time span). Your Spanish studies 
will be enhanced by opportunities not avail
able in a U.S. classroom. Standardized 
tests show our students' language skills 
superior to students completing two year 
programs in U.S. Advanced courses also.
Hurry. It takes a lot of time to make all ar
rangements.
SPRING SEMESTERJan. 30-May 29 
FALL SEMESTERAug. 29-Dec. 19
each year.
FULLY ACCREDITEDA Program of Trinity 
Christian College.
For full informationsend coupon to:
SEMESTER IN SPAIN
2065 Laraway Lake Drive S E . CN 
Grand Rapids Michigan 49506 
(A Program of Trinity Christian College)
SHELTERS FOR THE HOMELESS
%
A presentation of Architectural Proposals 
sponsored by the Department of Architecture and 
the Pittsburgh Chapter of American Institute of 
Architects. Presentation to be followed 
by discussion.
Wednesday, November 4, 1987 at 4:30 in 
Doherty Hall 1212.
Everyone Welcome
Running for Senate?
The Tartan will have a special election 
spread next week to give Senate candi
dates an opportunity to express their 
views.
All petitioners should submit to The 
Tartan a 30-word statement of their 
plans and opinions. All submissions of 
a length greater than 30 words will be 
cut at the 30th word.
Also, photographs for the spread will 
be taken at The Tartan office (Skibo 
Room 50) from 6 pm to 7 pm on Wed
nesday and Thursday, October 28 and 
29, 1987. All Senate candidates are 
encouraged to have their picture taken.
Any picture or statement not in The 
Tartan office by 8pm Thursday evening 
will not appear in the spread.
Friday, October 30
Jon Schikedanze 9 & 11 pm 
Erik Sherr 10 & 12 pm
Saturday, All Hallows' Eve
Pre-Party Halloween Bash: 
All Groovie Ghoulies Welcome!!

---------------------------------------------------

In fact, well even pay you more than $600 a month while you attend. Thats in 
addition to paying for your tuition, required books and fees.
Its all part of the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program. 
And here is how it works!
If youre selected for a Physicians Scholarshipfrom the Army, Navy, or Air 
Forceyoure commissioned as an officer in the Reserves.
While youre in school, youll serve 45 days a year on active duty, gaining 
valuable medical experience. After graduation, you will serve three or more 
years, the length depending on the requirements of the Service selected and 
years of scholarship assistance received.
As an Armed Forces physician youll receive officers pay and benefits, and 
enjoy the advantages of working regular hours. Youll also see a diversity of 
patients and have opportunities to use sophisticated medical technology.
But most important, while youre in medical school we'll help pay the bills. 
For more information, send in this coupon. There is no obligation.
YES! Tell me how the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Programcan help pay my medical school expenses. p understand there is no obligation.
9011A
Mail this coupon to: Armed Forces Scholarships, RO. Box 28l5 Huntington Station, NY 1174l-2102 
Check up to three: ? ARMY ? NAVY ? AIR FORCE
Please print aU information clearly and completely
Name_.?Male ?Female
Address.....Apt # . .
Tini I I
Il III III III MMI I IArea CodeNumber
K5I MM II I IMo. DayYear
Field of StudyGraduation I 
-Date Im
The information you voluntarily provide will be used for can respond to your request (Authority 10 USC 503 andrecruiting purposes only. The more complete it is the better we IIId E0 9397) v
The Incredible World of Graphic Communications Awaits a Few Good Freshmen!
Carnegie Mellon University boasts one of the finest, most 
highly regarded and oldest management programs for future 
leaders in the printing, publishing and packaging industries.
The changes now taking place in the technologies of these 
industries are revolutionizing the ways we create, transmit and 
reproduce printed images.
It's the biggest industry in the nation. . . and GCM graduates 
have one of the highest ratios of job opportunities per student 
of any major on campus! There are only a few GCM openings 
within the Industrial Management Department, so learn 
about it now if you think you may be interested!
Come to the GCM Opportunity Tour and Dinner Tuesday, November 3 *
Starts at 4:30PM with a tour the Graphic Arts Technical Center 
to see the latest advancements in computer graphics and 
technologies for printing production!
Call ext. 2313 or sign up in the IM office, GSIA 206 for 
a session that could change your life!
November 23^ Syria Mosque
Tickets on sale at Skibo Info Desk 
MondayFriday 9am5pm
Presented by: 
AB Concerts, Pitt Programming Council, DiCesare Engler 
Regular Price $15.75 
Sale to CMU Students $7.00
Limit 2 tickets per ID

---------------------------------------------------

Tartans Take Two; Prep for Presidents
continued from page 28
City 49. On third and 11 from the 50, Hensel 
hit Beresford in the left flat. The junior from 
Penn-Trafford H.S. wheeled and dealed his 
way 42 yards to the GC 8. Hansen completed 
the drive for a Tartan-record fourth time, scor
ing from the one yard line with 6:48 left.
Hansen finished the day with the Tartans 
first 100 yard game this season, rolling for 107 
yards on a Craig Heyward-like 30 carries. He 
leads the Tartans in rushing with 258 yards, 
and his 64.5 yard per game average is third best 
in the PAC.
Sophomore linebacker Dave Skinner inter
cepted Cass a minute later. Mancuso then took 
his turn, beating two Wolverine defenders on 
tji 48 yard touchdown strike from Hensel, who 
completed eight of 18 passes for 169 yards. 
The Tartans were home free, 33-16.
Grove City scored one more touchdown, but 
it didnt matter. The Tartans had finally used 
the big play to their advantage.
All year we havent gotten the big plays. 
Theyve always gone against us. It makes it a 
lot easier when you get 20 yards in one play 
ather than in five, said sophomore OT Doug 
Cervenak.
The Carnegie Mellon defense held Grove 
City to a season-low 203 yards, and Cass could 
complete just seven of 20 for 87 yards. Junior 
strong safety Gerry Bosch credits Defensive 
Coordinator Terry Bodnar. Coach Bodnar 
called a lot of excellent plays. We were 
running right where they were running. 
Beresford and Mancusos 156 combined 
receiving yards marked a season best for the 
tandem, and helped avenge a 25-22 loss to 
Grove City last year. Mancusos 15 catches 
lead the team, and each has 204 receiving 
yards for co-Tartan leadership. And were 
just getting going, Mancuso added.
The Tartans will need to keep going this 
Saturday when Washington & Jefferson 
comes to town. The Presidents are the only
undefeated team in the conference, having 
beaten once-beaten Hiram, 26-7, three days 
ago to set up a possible title game at Tech Field 
this weekend. If the Tartans can beat W&J and 
then Bethany November 7, Carnegie Mellon 
will finish no worse than tied for first in the 
PAC.
But its not that easy. Hiram beat Carnegie 
Mellon, 26-20, on Homecoming, and W&J is 
ranked second in the nation by the National 
Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA).
Were looking forward to the game, Cer
venak said. I dont think were intimidated at 
all. We just have to do what we know we can 
do. Its more mental than physical.
The Presidents feature the fastest and strong
est lineup in the conference. Theyre led by 
senior HB A.J. Pagano, W&Js all-time lead
ing rusher; senior QB Pat Aigner, the PACs 
leading passer; and a defense that has yielded 
just eight points per game.
Weve got to make the big play so we can 
gain the momentum to beat W&J, noted Mike 
Ross, senior safety and special-teams demon.
Head Coach Rich Lackner said its a ques
tion of response. You cant change things 
seven games into the season. If we play like we 
played in the first, second and fourth quarters 
against Grove City, well be in good shape.
We put ourselves in the position to be coPAC champs. Now weve got to respond.
Tartan Tattlers: Carnegie Mellons two 
straight victories improved their season record 
to 5-l-l...Bamyak, another Penn-Trafford 
grad, suffered a twisted right ankle in the 
second half, after recording his first three 
collegiate kick returns...Bamyak, Mikol and 
freshman nose tackle Marvin Germany will be 
WRCTs guests on Sportsline, tonight at 
8:30 p.m....Saturdays game can also be heard 
on 88.3 FM, starting at 1:25 p.m.bring your 
walkman to Tech Field...Junior Laszlo Budas 
punting continues to excel; his 35 yard aver
age is second best in the league.
Excellence
c sEcgho Thy'mE p,hgEo Gk) c sEcgho th p,hhgE Fhys Ntcs Pbzzc
Fast, FREE Delivery within 30 minutes683-0400
Store Hours: Sun-Wed 4pm-1am, Thurs-Sat 4pm-2am
coht,Es sEcgho
ss
\\3E$2off * SB 
* Any One Item 12" Pizza \  Any One Item 16 Pizza ^
* 683-0400 I \ 683-0400 -
we reserve the right to limit our delivery area
University Student Ombudsman
Not been treated fairly?
Frustrated?
Don't know who to talk to about a problem?
Need Information?
Have a good idea for the campus?
The student Ombudsman Office created by President Cyert will provide information, make 
recommendations and investigate claims of unfair treatment or erroneous procedures.
All information and discussion is confidential.
Call or stop by the Skibo Information Desk to make an appointment.
Discipline Appeals 
Grade Appeals 
Grading Criteria 
Teaching Methods 
Problem with courses 
Student Stores 
Security 
Athletics
Skibo Information Desk - x2107
Student Activities 
Counseling Center 
Health Center 
Academic Advising 
Student Affairs 
Libraries 
Dining Services 
Curriculum
Registration 
Parking 
Contracts 
Financial Aid 
Student Services 
Computer Services 
Physical Plant 
Housing 
Safety Concerns

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanOctober 27,1987
Ruggers Attack 
Altoona
By DAVID BRILL
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
In an impressive come-from-behind 
victory, the Carnegie Mellon rugby 
team beat Altoona 20-16. It was a tight 
game from start to finish but the Tartans 
persevered thanks to a clutch kick by Joe 
Villarreal. Tries in the game were 
scored by Villarreal, Steven Applebaum, Mike Kleha and Dom Ianno. 
Down 16-10 late in the second half, 
Kleha dove and barely made the try zone 
to make it 16-14. This set up Villarreals 
kick, which was all the way against the 
left sideline. At an almost impossible 
angle, he split the uprights tying the 
game. This gave the momentum to the 
Tartans who w6nt on to win.
In the B game the Tartans lost 7-0. But 
on a good note, the B team played all the 
regulars from the Altoona A team giving 
them a good battle. The B team played 
strong defense and gave up the only try 
late in the game. The rugby Tartans are 
now 4-1 on the season and play Al
legheny on Saturday at home.
Lady Tartans Take Three Singles, One
Doubles Title at PAC Tennis Tournament
fought to a 6-3 second set win, and after some 
coaching from Captain Andrea Benowitz re
turned to dominate the last set, 6-0. The next 
day, a much calmer Cavanaugh beat John 
Carrolls Lisa Moreschi 7-5,6-0 in the finaL.
If Cavanaughs match was the most nerve 
racking, without a doubt the most exciting 
matches of the tournament came from #4 
singles Amy Fibus. Fibus, seeded #3, won her 
first round against John Carrolls Laura Mich
6-3,7-5. The next day, in the semi-finals Fibus 
faced Grove Citys Julie Caruso. Fibus won 
the first set 6-3 only to find herself down 1 -5 in 
the second set. Fibus commented, I though 
to myself, OK, Im going to lose this set. I 
just wanted to make it look good and go on to 
the next set. But when I had won a couple of 
games, I saw I could win. I got tough.
Down 1-5, she got an opportunity to do her 
John McEnroe impression when she threw her 
racket at the fence in anger over what she 
believed was a crucial bad line call. Appar
ently her anger psyched her up just enough t 
come back to win the set, 7-5.
In the finals Fibus lost her first set 1-6 and 
was down 2-5 in the second set facing a match 
point on her own serve. Proving that it is never 
too late to come back, Fibus, cheered on by her 
doubles partner Tracy Boyd, not only held her 
serve, but went on to win the next four games 
and the second set. The determined #4 singles 
player, running on the momentum she hat' 
acquired in the last set, won the third set 6-4, 
thus winning the PAC.
At #5, Boyd made easy work of her oppo
nents. It was not until the second set of the 
finals did Boyd begin to waiver. Luckily, she 
overcame her inconsistency problems and 
won the finals 6-1, 7-5.
In doubles, the #1 team of Cavanaugh and 
Dottor faced John Carroll, the only team tha* 
ever beat them, in the finals. It was a necessary 
win to even have a chance at the tournament. 
John Carrolls Liz Hanna and Daniela Lungociu played an exceptional match, however, 
the very consistent Dottor, armed with a fourleaf clover to bring her luck, combined with 
the aggressive play of Cavanaugh to survive 
the strength of John Carrolls domination at 
the net. Cavanaugh and Dottor won the final 
in an extremely close 7-6 (7-3), 6-4 match.
After Dottor and Cavanaugh beat their oppo
nents, the team could only sit and watch their 
teammates Boyd and Fibus play out the #3 
doubles finals. Carnegie Mellon needed the 
win to take the tournament, however, Grove 
City proved to be too tough. Boyd and Fibus 
seemed off of their game early on in the first set 
but then staged an impressive comeback. Thf* 
team wavered during the tie breaker, and lost 
the first set 7-6 (7-4).
In the second set, the doubles tandem found 
themselves down 0-3. Unfortunately, after the 
women valiantly fought back winning the next 
five straight games, they ran out of steam. It 
was Grove Citys turn to dominate. Grove 
City took the next four games winning the set
7-5 and winning first place at #3 doubles.
Most players agreed they played a good
tournament. Those matches that the Tartans 
lost were on the whole extremely close. As 
many of the Lady Tartans made the later 
rounds of the tournament, Carnegie Mellon 
had control over their own destiny throughout 
most of the tournament. Only once did any 
team other than Carnegie Mellon beat Grove 
City throughout the whole tourney.
The tournament could not have been any 
closer. Going into the doubles Coach Dave 
Lichtman commented, Win or lose weve 
played as well as we can. We have had to do 
the whole thing ourselves. No one has beaten 
Grove City for us.
The women will travel this weekend to 
Emory to compete in the University Athletic 
Association Chawqwowship.*'iS l"w '1 ___
Knowledge and ambition Now you're ready to join a company that shares those values And that company is Singer
Singer can take you from your campus to the forefront of discovery In navigation and guidance systems Communications Signal processing Fiber optics And in disciplines that exist now only at the farthest reaches of the imagination
As all S citizen with an EE ME CS or Physics degree you can develop new realities during an exciting period of growth at one of our Advanced Engineering Centers m New Jersey
To learn more about the rewards you II discover here, contact your Placement Office, or write Ms Karen DeChino The Singer Company Mail Code 07A02 1225 McBride Avenue Little Falls. NJ 07424
We are an equal opportunity employer, m/f. who creates opportunities
SINGER
See us on campus November 18
continued from page 28
Cavanaugh had easily beat Shingle earlier in 
the season, she soon learned that Shingle 
would be no pushover. Early on, Shingle 
dominated play and jumped out to a convinc
ing lead. After losing the first set 4-6, Cava
naugh had difficulty maintaining her compo
sure. It had been so long since I had lost a set 
of tennis I just did not know what to do. 
Everyone had been saying that I was supposed 
to win this match. I never want to hear that 
again! You can always lose. Cavanaugh
Tracy Boyd returns cross-court during practice.
photo by Daryl Thomas

---------------------------------------------------

October 27,1987The TartanPage 23
Volleyball Team Hits a Dry Spell
By NATALIE HAWRYLUK
Tartan Staffwriter
After a flying 4-1 start in the Presidents 
Athletic Conference this season, the womens 
volleyball team is having trouble maintaining 
its altitude as it prepares for the University 
, Athletic Association Championships in St. 
Louis this weekend. The Lady Tartans suf
fered four losses, while only salvaging one 
win in the past two weeks.
On Saturday, the team travelled to John 
Carroll, where they were defeated by the Lady 
Blue Streaks 3-1 (7-15,15-9,8-15,7-15). The 
Lady Tartans played tough defense through
out the match. Freshman Nicole Hanak 
chalked up 3 block solos and 13 blocking 
assists. The offense was led by senior Monica 
Zalevsky and Hanak, recording 11 and 9 kills 
respectively. Head Coach Sue Flaherty com
mented on the style of playing of the team. 
Weve been concentrating on individual 
skills in practice in preparation for the UAAs, 
and not enough on teamwork. The girls were 
thinking about what each one had to do indi
vidually.
Earlier in the week, Carnegie Mellon de
feated the First Ladies of Washington and 
Jefferson 3-0(15-11,15-6,16-14). Leaders of 
the Lady Tartan offense were Zalevsky and 
freshman Cindy Peperak, as they added 7 kills 
each to the team total of 33 for the match. 
CMUs defense was excellent at the net, but 
the team had trouble covering the middle back 
portion of the court. Movement was slow and 
^ hesitant due to position changes on the court, 
noted Flaherty. The Lady Tartans committed 
8 service errors, 16 hitting errors and 8 receiv
ing errors.
On October 15th, Carnegie Mellon hosted 
Grove City and Carlow; both matches resulted 
in losses for the Lady Tartans. In the first 
match, Grove City handily took the first game 
3-15, but the second game was a little tougher 
for the Lady Wolverines to win. Grove City 
was up 14-2, but Carnegie Mellon bounced 
back to within one point before Grove City
Cross-Country 
Prepares For 
Title Defenses
continued from page 28
would have been running stronger at the be
ginning of the season. Meckley feels that they 
have a good chance to go to nationals, but 
would not make any predictions as to how he 
felt the Tartans would field. He feels that 
keeping healthy is the key to doing well, and a 
little good luck doesnt hurt either.
The team had a confidence builder against 
Thiel at Flagstaff Saturday October the 24th. 
Coach Meckley gave his top five runners the 
week off and let the rest of the team go at it 
against a weak Thiel team. The result was yet 
another dual meet victory for Carnegie Mellon 
^ in very impressive style. The Tartans took the 
top five places, thus blanking Thiel with a 
score of 15-50. Kevin Helm was the winner of 
the race with a very impressive time of 26:31. 
He was followed by Gary Harrison and Gary 
Meiker for the top three places.
The womens cross country team fared well 
at the UAA championships Saturday, October 
17. The young team from Carnegie Mellon 
^ placed 6th out of a field of nine in a very strong 
conference. Kristen Burgard was the top fin
isher for the Tartans, placing 11th overall.
More recently at Flagstaff on Saturday, Oc
tober 24th, the Lady Tartans beat Thiel in what 
was basically a forfeit meet. Thiel had only 
one runner, but brought her up to compete 
against the Lady Tartans. Pat Fall won the race 
followed by the Ttypl competitor and Burgard.
was able to score the winning point and win
ning the game, as well as the match, 15-13. 
Hanak and Zalevsky sparked the Tartan of
fense with a combined effort of 15 kills in the 
match. They played well. I wish we had 
played them [Grove City] best of five because 
after the second game, they [CMU] were 
ready to play another game. said Flaherty. In 
the second match of the evening, the Lady 
Tartans fell apart, and Carlow walked away 
with a victory 2-0 (10-15, 1-15). It was one 
of those times when something goes wrong, 
and when it finally works, something else 
goes wrong.
Bethany was the first match of Carnegie 
Mellons skid. It was a hard fought match, but 
when the smoke cleared, Bethany emerged as 
the victor 3-2 (15-5, 12-15, 15-5, 10-15, 4- 
15). Offensively, senior Karin McCandless 
and sophomore Kristine Loh led the Lady 
Tartans with 12 and 10 kills respectively.
Carnegie Mellon hosts PAC rival Thiel to
night at Skibo Gym at 7 pm. The team is now 
5-4 in the conference and 12-13 overall. The 
Lady Tartans are seeded sixth among the 
eight in the tournament this weekend in St. 
Louis.
The Lady Tartans hit the floor to return a well hit serve.
Students Interested in a Career in Accounting and Finance
CHOOSE
WISELY.
I he Dun & Bradstreet 
Corporation urges 
you to take a good 
look at the many 
career options avail
able to you after grad
uation. Making the 
right choice, choosing the right com
pany from the start, can determine 
how far and how rapidly you will ulti
mately progress in your career.
Meet with Dun & Bradstreet for 
an on-campus interview, and learn 
how we can be that right company for 
you. The one that complements you 
professionally. And personally.
Well talk to you about our lead
ership position in one of todays most 
quickly growing industries  business 
information services. And, since we 
are the leader in the industry, we have 
the capabilities to offer you a wide 
variety of career opportunities you 
might not find in banking, brokerage 
and accounting firms.
But most of all, well want to 
learn about you, and find out if you 
have what it takes to join our challeng
ing Business Training Program.
A flexible 18-month program 
designed to give a select group of 
high-potential college graduates, 
interested in careers in accounting 
and finance, a hands-on introduction 
to Dun & Bradstreet and the industry 
in which we compete.
As a BTP trainee youll partici
pate in a series of rotational assign
ments in various areas of the 
company. While in the program youll 
gain early responsibility, high visibility 
and a clear picture of the many possi
bilities available to you in a financial 
career with Dun & Bradstreet.
So, when deciding on a com
pany where you can begin your 
career, choose wisely. Look to Dun & 
Bradstreet.
Well be Interviewing on 
campus on Tuesday, January 19th.
For more information, visit your 
placement office.
? Maximize Your Choices.
The Dun & Bradstreet 
Corporation
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24The TartanOctober 27,1987
New For 1987
Monthly Job Vacancy Bulletin
Representative Openings:
Soccer Squad 
Plays .500 Ball
photboyEr ashA icLE 2l 
Park took the ball from mid-field, 
eluded three Frostburg players, and shot 
across the goal for the Tartans first 
score. The first half ended with the 
Tartans ahead 1-0.
In the second half, Kasabach headed 
the ball past Frostburgs goalie on a 
Kevin Jung comer kick to give the Tar
tans a 2-0 lead. The score remained 2-0 
until late in the second half, when Frost
burg scored two consecutive goals to tie 
the game. Regulation ended with the 
teams deadlocked 2-2.
Rudolph scored the Tartans third goal 
during the first overtime. Jung took a 
shot, the ball deflected off of the goalie, 
and Rudolph tipped it in to give Carne
gie Mellon its second lead of the day, a 
lead they were unable to hold as the 
Bobcats scored with two minutes left in 
the second overtime. The clock expired 
with the score tied 3-3, giving the Tar
tans their second tie of the season.
On Friday, Washington & Jefferson 
came to Tech Field, and this time, the 
Tartans were victorious, winning 1-0. 
Eddie Park scored the games only goal 
in the first half when his penalty kick 
scooted past W&Js goalie. The lone 
goal was all Hoogerwerf needed to 
record his sixth shutout of the season.
The team has really gelled a lot, said 
Rudolph of recent Tartan play. There 
were a lot of games in the beginning that 
we know we should have won, but we 
hadnt come together yet. Now weve 
got stability in Glen at keeper, and 
weve really come together as a team.
Assistant Director of Fundraising Friends of Thirteen Public TV $20,000
Visit your Zenith Data Systems Campus Contact today:
rKiTM
Heath/Zenith Computer & Electronics 3482 William Penn Highway Pittsburgh, PA 15235
systems ZZZZ
data
THE QUALITY GOES IN BEFORE THE NAME GOES ON' 215/527-2950
Ask about how you can qualify for easy monthly payments with a Zenith Data Systems Credit Card1
Special pricing otfer good only 41 purchases through Zenith LonUct(J) bsted above by students, faculty and *ui1 h* ihrir own use No other discounts apply Limit one personal computer and one monitor per individual in any 12-month period Prices subject to change without notxr  1*7. Zenith Data SyMetns
Graphic Artist Lifelink Corporation High teens
Computer Analyst Environmental Defense Fund midtwenties
Research AssociateCommunity Information Exchange$25000
Special Events Coordinator Cystic Fibrosis $14 000-$17.000CarnegieMellon
PHI Player of the Game
Hansen Rambles For 4 TDs, 100 Yards
DE227,1S9 8*t7 D8332 D8411 5R*ef9 r711 D*17,89
CO-EDS QUt'tRJED IN WTlClWlON SHEIXCN -TME 
ZENITH COMPUTER NEKt> - - HAD STEFTCD OFF IKE BUS
By PERRY PIERCE
Tartan Staffer iter 
The Tartans coaches have taken big stock in 
their running game this year, and at Grove 
City this past Saturday, Chris Hansen made 
sure the stock stayed blue chip.
Hansen, with over a hundred yards and four 
touchdowns, anchored a solid Tartan offen
sive attack and earned himself Panther Hollow 
Inn [PHI] player of the game honors for the 
second time in three weeks.
Hansen, a six foot, 217 pound junior from 
Landisville, Pa., started his Tartan career as a 
guard. But right from the start, the coaching 
staff saw his speed, and approached him about 
moving to the fullback slot. There were 
twelve or thirteen guards at camp that year, 
and only three fullbacks. The numbers made 
my decision much easier.
The junior did not play his freshman year, but 
last year he cracked the varsity squad, and saw 
limited playing time early in the year. But 
Hansen got his chance as an injury to Tony 
Collaros thrust him into the starting role for the 
rest of the year. Coming into camp this year, 
though, Hansen didnt believe the job was his. 
I didn't come into camp thinking I was the 
number one player. We have two other full
backs who have played that position their 
whole lives, so I came back thinking that I had 
to go out and win myself a job.
The 1987 season started on a low note for 
Hansen, as he was struck down by a knee 
injury in the seasons first game agaainst Al
legheny. The injury sidelined him for three 
weeks, and Eric Polkis and Fran Bellante filled 
in. We have a team that is not based around 
one man. There are three or four talented 
people to fill every position on the field. Eric 
and Fran are two perfect examples of how deep
Computer Nerd success with this special offer from your Zenith Data Systems Campus Contact. Sheldon gives it a big thumbs up! Heres the Sheldon Special!
For expanded Z iMl Laptop ITstorage, ask about NUioiested retail pncv:
the Z-183 LaptopI/- .. i/, cniij Special Student PricePC with a 10.5MB
Hard Disk and sing $"| 00000
le .iVj" floppy.$1,399(
PHI Player of the Game Chris Hansen (32)
our team is.
Hansen sat on the sidelines until Homecom
ing against Hiram. The Tartans did not win the 
game, but his return to the lineup sparked up a 
Tartan offense that was having trouble moving 
the football. Hansens first game back earned 
him PHI Player of the Game honors for the 
first time this season. I felt really good when 
I got back out there, and the team seemed to 
respond to it, too.
Hansen started off in fine fashion against the 
Wolverines this past Saturday, unleashing 
himself for 75 yards and three touchdowns in 
the first half. His number was called 17 times 
in the first two quarters of play. It was really 
easy in the first half. I had big holes opening 
up for me. The offensive line was really doing 
their job.
Hansen's three first half scores were all in the 
second quarter, as he marched the ball in from 
one, two and eight yards away. I couldnt 
believe how easy it was out there in the first 
half, as I got into the end zone on my feet every 
time. I had no problems at all.
runs past Grove Citys Mke McCalmont (61)
Carnegie Mellon called Hansens number 
another 13 times in the second half, but the 
yards didn t come easily. He did manage to get 
another touchdown in the fourth quarter, 
punching the ball in from the one yard line to ^ 
seal the victory for the Carnegie Mellon. In 
the second half the defense seemed to know 
what we were setting up to run. The yards were 
a lot tougher in the second half.
Hansens century mark has put his season 
total at 258 yards and six touchdowns, which 
is tops in both departments for the Tartans.
As for this weekends battle with secondranked Washington and Jefferson, Hansen \ 
said the Tartans have to play flawless foot
ball if they want to have a shot at the confer
ence championship and NCAA playoff action 
at the end of the season. We have improved 
a lot over the course of the year, but this week 
will be the big test. We have to prove that last 
years game against W&J was just a fluke. 
The whole team is very excited about the 
game, but it will be a winner take-all blood\ 
bath."
Heres Sheldon the Computer Nerd... the hottest new hunk on your campus!Hes hip. Hes cool. Hes the new wave nebbish. Now you can discover Sheldons secret to
The Zenith Data Systems Z-1K1 Laptop PC Dazzling back-lit LCD 
screen for crisp text 
and great readability
 Dual 720K floppy 
disk drives
 Runs virtually all PCcompatible software
 M0K RAM
 MS !K)S
 A rechargeable battery 
for hours of DC power
 Perfect for taking 
notes, writing papers and creating graphics on 
the spot!

---------------------------------------------------

c \ / Entropy \ M
o z / Vending
s CMU //1 i /
\ Book/ Present 
v \ store/TTi*>
Students Against MS
Balloon
Raffle
Winners
announced at the 
football game Saturday

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26The TartanOctober 27,1987
Soccer Squad Goes 1-1-2; Still At .500 Mark
photo by Suvro Datta
Tartan keeper Glen Hoogerwerf gets ready to defend the goal against Wash. & Jeff.
By JUDY GROSSMAN
Tartan Staff\\ riter
The Tartans soccer team, going into this 
weeks action, has a 6-6-2 record, having won 
last Fridays Washington & Jefferson game 1- 
0, losing the week before to UAA rival Wash
ington University 2-0, and tying Frostburg 
University 3-3 and Mount Union College 0-0.
The first game, Wednesday, October 14, the 
Tartans traveled to Mount Union, where they 
battled to a scoreless tie in double overtime. 
The game marked sophomore goalie Glen 
Hoogerwerfs fifth shutout of the season.
It was a midfield battle, with both teams 
unable to convert shots. We had scoring op
portunities, but we just didnt capitalize on 
them, said freshmen midfielder Chris Kasabach. Freshmen back Mike Rudolph scored 
on a Kevin Jung cross-pass, but the goal was 
negated by a penalty and the Tartans were 
unable to come back.
On Friday, October 16, the Tartans traveled 
to St. Louis to take on the eighth-ranked 
Washington University Bears. The Bears 
prevailed 2-0, led by senior forward Zack 
Edmonds, who scored the first goal, senior 
back Larry Cohen, who scored the Bears 
second goal, and senior forward Dennis
Northcott, who assisted on both scores.
In the first half, Edmonds took a Northcott 
pass and shot across the goal past a diving 
Hoogerwerf to make the score 1 -0. Then, in 
the second half, Cohen converted on a head 
shot that eluded Hoogerwerf to make the final 
score 2-0. We got a little lax in our play, said 
freshmen back Mike Ferrence. No one had 
Cohen marked and he finished a nice ball.
Part of the problem for the Tartans was poor 
defense. Hoogerwerf made several key saves 
that kept the scoring minimal. Glen kept us in 
the game, Ferrence said. Hes been the
backbone of the team these past few weeks. 
He was pushed into the starting role due to a 
tough situation, and he has adjusted quickly. 
It was a tough game, said Kasabach. But 
it was good for us to play ranked teams like 
Washington. Games like this can only im
prove our program.
Carnegie Mellon had only two days to re
cover from their loss. On Tuesday, Frostburg 
came to Tech Field to take on the Tartans. The 
two teams battled to a 3-3 tie in two overtimes. 
In the first half, sophomore midfielder Eddie 
continued on page 24
SidelinesA Look at the World of Sports
Compiled by PERRY PIERCE
TWINS WIN SERIES
With a 4-2 win Sunday, the Minnesota 
Twins won the their first Series since 
moving in 1961. It was also the first time 
a team won all four games at home.
mJ
FOOTBALL STRIKE ENDS
The NFL walkout ended last week.
The players are now playing without an 
agreement on the issues they struck for. 
Sunday was the second start to the real 
NFL season, as replacement teams that 
played for three weeks were given dis
missals when the regulars returned to 
work. Some replacement players were I 
asked to stay with the teams they played 
for, but most were back to the regular 
jobs they held before the walkout began.
TYSON WINS AGAIN
Mike Tyson continued his domination 
of the boxing ring with a seven round 
knockout over Tyrell Biggs. Tyson 
dominated the fight from the opening v 
bell, landing jabs at will. Tyson's next 
fight will be January 23rd, when he will 
meet former heavyweight champion 
Larry Holmes. Holmes will come back 
after retiring early in the year, and if 
Tyson beats Holmes, he will finally 
meet Michael Spinks later next year.
BASEBALL PLAYERS PICK x 
THEIR FAVORITES
The results are in from the baseball 
players, and George Bell and Andre 
Dawson are their picks for Most Valu
able Player. The players also voted on 
Cy Young candidates, and the winners 
were Dave Stewart of Oakland, and 
Steve Bedrosian of the Phillies. Rook
ies of the year were also voted on, and t 
there was no surprise as Benito Santiago 
won honors in the NL, while Oaklands 
Mark McGwire took the prize in the AL.
FIFTH TIME THE CHARM?
The New York Yankees named Billy 
Martin the manager of the club, making 
this the fifth time that the former Yankee 
second baseman will pilot the club. Lou v 
Pinella, who had disputes with owner 
George Steinbrenner all year, and stated 
that he did not want the job anymore, 
was promoted to General Manager.
DAGGETT HURT IN 
GYMNASTICS MEET
1984 US Gold Medal Gymnast Tim 
Daggett broke both his tibia and fibia of ^ 
the left leg in a vault at the World Cham. 
pionships. This is his second careerthreatening injury in less than a year, 
and in hopes to save his career, surgery 
was performed on the leg to try to get 
Daggett back for the 1988 Olympics.
The US finished ninth in the competi
tion behind the Soviet Union.
PITT WINS AGAIN
The Pitt Panthers won their game this 
past weekend against Navy, 10-6. The 
Panthers, ranked 25th in the nation, will 
be facing a tough opponent this week
end as they battle the 9th ranked 
Syracuse Orangemen at Pitt Stadium.
PRINE OUT AS BUCS PRESIDENT
Malcolm Mac Prine stepped down 
Friday as President of the Pirates. Prine 
had been at odds with GM Syd Thrift, 
and it was rumored that Thrift would 
leave the Bucs. However, the Pirate 
Board of Directors met last week and 
insisted that Prine rehire Thrift or leave.
TE C H NO L O 6 Y f 0 ftNEW AGE
TRW will be on 
campus PhmH 19-20
See your college 
placement office 
to sign up.
Who Do You Call 
Wheo You Warn To 
Ideotify A Soccer 
Ball From 22,300 Miles 
lo Space?
If your answer is Ghost Busters, we want to wish you all 
the best and have a nice day. If you answered "TRW, 
here's the rest of the story.
The U.S. Air Force asked us to build a ground-based 
electro-optical surveillance system that could identify 
an object the size of a soccer ball from 22,300 miles in 
space. We did it, utilizing 3 telescopes and a large com
puter system. Then they asked us to build four more. 
Quite an achievement, but it's just one example of 
TRW's impact on the future.
TRW offers you the freedom to move among a wide 
variety of opportunities in microelectronics, high 
energy lasers, large software systems, communica
tions, and scientific spacecraft. If you're majoring in 
engineering, computer science, math, or physics, and 
want to be with a company that's driving technology 
into the next century, it's not too soon to talk. Tomor
row is taking shape at a company called TRW.
If you are unable to see us on campus, please send 
your resume to: TRW, College Relations, E2/4000, 
One Space Park, Redondo Beach, CA 90278.
Becaose Anywhere Else Is Yesterday.
Eqycw OiihstyobtT EAiwhTEs 
)HNH GbtbzEog,bi MEqybsEr
I
A Company Called TRW

---------------------------------------------------

Scoreboard
Tartan Sports Calendar
October 27:
October 28:
N October 30-1 :
October 31 :
Volleyball vs Thiel at Skibo Gym, 7:00 pm
Sportsline on WRCT-FM (88.3), 8:30 pm
Guests: Marvin Germany, Scott Bamyak, Brian Mikol
Soccer at Pittsburgh, 7:15 pm
Hockey vs IUP at Kittaning, 8:15 pm
Tennis at Emory (UAA Championship)
Volleyball at Washington (Mo) (UAA Championship) 
Cross-Country at John Carroll (PAC Championship)
Football vs Washington & Jefferson at Tech Field, 1:30 pm (WRCT)
Soccer at Bethany, 1:30 pm
Rugby at Pitt-Johnstown
Hockey vs Duquesne at Lakeview, 2:00 pm
IM Standings
IM Report
CO-REC VOLLEYBALL 
Champions: MajorsThe Wave; Interme
diateSUPA; MinorsPhi Kap.
WATER POLO 
CommissionerHal Levine x5981. 
Certified life guards must have a copy of 
their current life guard card on file in the 
Athletic Office.
Water Polo life guards will be: John Gray 
x8822 and John Bender x4552.
Please return all equipment to its proper 
place following the last match of the evening.
FACULTY AND STAFF TENNIS 
Please report the results of your matches to 
the IM office and play matches as scheduled.
TEAM VOLLEYBALL 
CommissionerStu Fox x4226.
Schedules are out and standings are posted 
on the IM Bulletin Board.
RACQUETBALL 
Commissioner Carl Bell x5509.
Schedules are out and can be picked up in the 
IM Office.
Please report your winning scores to the IM 
Office.
TEAM TABLE TENNIS 
Commissioner Bob Koca x8975.
Schedules and rules can be picked up in the 
IM Office.
Please play all games as scheduled and report 
scores to the IM Office.
CHESS
Commisssioner Matt Murbach x3934. 
Matches started on October 4th and round 4 
should be played between October 25th and 
31st.
BOWLING 
f Commissioner Randy Brown x5501. IM 
Bowling will be held at Strand Lanes on Satur
day mornings at 10 am. Matches will begin on 
Saturday, October 24th. Bowling fees will be 
determined by the number of games you will 
roll.
SOCCER 
Commissioners: 
i> MajorStu Fox x4226.
IntermediateStephanie Janczak x4229. 
MinorMichael Grzywinski 681-2826. 
WomenStephanie Janczak x4229.
The 1987 Soccer Rules Clinic was held 
October 15th in the Womens Gym.
Soccer games will start on Wednesday, Oc
tober 28th.
Please check IM Bulletin Board for your 
Schedule of playing dates.
NO VARSITY soccer players can play IM
soccer.
Pick up scedules in IM Office.
SPORTS DUE OCTOBER 29TH 
DartsCommissioner Robert Moses, 683- 
8409.
3-Person VolleyballStephanie Janczak,
*4229. ...............................
SOCCER SEASON TO BEGIN 
The official opening night of IM Soccer will 
be Wednesday, October 28th. Schedules of 
Major, Intermediate and Minor Leagues can 
be picked up in the IM Office. As in other team 
sports, The IM Officials Club will have offi
cials assigned to referee soccer games. Team 
captains are reminded to check in the IM 
Office to see if an official club member has 
been assigned to officiate. If not, teams are 
required to send an official at the assigned time 
on the schedule. Anyone interested in joining 
the Officials Club (Soccer) may do so by 
calling the IM office, x2214.
IM FOOTBALL 
The 1987 CMU IM Football season drew to 
a close last night. Due to the Tartan deadline, 
all championship coverage will appear in next 
weeks issue. Also, watch for CMU-IM-1987 
Major, Intermediate and Minor All-Star 
teams, and Most Valuable Player awards.
VOLLEYBALL 
All volleyball teams are reminded that there 
are no make-up days available and teams must 
play their games at the scheduled times. Play
offs for volleyball will run the week of No
vember 9th through November 12th.
3-PERSON VOLLEYBALL 
3-person volleyball entries have been moved 
back a week and are now due on Thursday, 
October 29th by 4:30. The 3-person volleyball 
season will begin on Monday, November 
16th.
UAA Mens Cross Country Championship
INDIVIDUAL RESULTS
1. David Laub (EM)26:21.5
2. Scott Kantor (BR)26:34.0
3. Derrick Peterman (WA)26:37.5
4. Mark Harrington (BR)26:41.8
5. A1 Smith (RO)26:46.5
6. Dave Supp (CM)26:50.1
7. John Wiegand (RO)26:55.9
8. Dave Hurteau (RO)26:57.2
9. John Moran (RO)27:00.9
10. Paul Milles (RO)27:01.4
11. Keith Stopen (CM)27:08.4
16. Paul Camine (CM)27:24.2
24. Pat Noll (CM)27:40.1
27. Gary Harrison (CM)27:50.5
28. Len ONeal (CM)27:51.0
40. Gary Meeker (CM)28:13.7
47. Kevin Helm (CM)28:36.1
56. Dan Holland (CM)28:58.5
60. Frank Matousek (CM)29:16.4
Team Placings and ScoresTotal
Rochester (RO)39
Brandeis (BR)76
Carnegie Mellon84
Case Western Reserve (CWRU)87
Washington (WA)102
Emory University (EM)128
Chicago (CH)232
New York University (NYU)245
Johns Hopkins (JH)249
TENNISTEAM TABLE TENNIS
MajorsWonLossMajors-National LeagueWonLoss
GSIA NOT MBA50GSIA20
MIS-N-MATCH42THE ROGUES10
PHI KAPPA THETA2ICSO00
KSA11THE 21 S01
EUROPEAN TEAM12FORCE 1001
GSIAS BIG BOYS01RMPG. ZULA COM. AARD.01
GSIA PLUS01
SEI13Majors-American LeagueWonLoss
THE B.A.M.F.03PHI KAPPA10
THE TOPSPINNERS10
Intermediate AWonLossMELLON HEADS10
PILAM50THE PROF. HIT MEN01
DV01KILL SHOTS01
ATO01AEPI01
GOLDEN SHOWERS01
CSO-B0IMinors-Pacific LeagueWonLoss
TUDOR01THE VOIDI0
CSD10
Intermediate BWonLossPILAM00
SIG TAU70SLURPS00
SUPA FUZZBUSTERS12SMODNOCS01
OUR AD12SHEAR STRESS01
SHIRLEY SLUGS01
MUDSLINGERS01VOLLEYBALL
CSO-A03
Majors-Womens A.WonLoss
RACQUETBALLCIA20
MATHLETES10
MajorsWonLossDELTA GAMMA01
PHI KAP-A20ZOO CREW02
THE TOASTERS21
KAPPA SIGMA10Majors B.WonLoss
PHI KAP-B10THE CLUB20
Y ASHS CREW01CS-110
PILAM01CS-201
THE GREAT GUYS01THE MIRACLE WHIPS02
6-E TEAM A02
Intermediate-Div. CWonLoss
MinorsWonLossSUPA ET AL20
SIG TAU10NINE LIVES20
AFROTC11PILAM AI1
HAMMER SLAMMERSIISCOBELL MILKMEN11
ALPHA EPSILON PI11TEAM RAI1
DELTA UPSILON00GLOBETROTTERS02
A-CLUB00CSO (B)02
6-E TEAM B01
Intermediate-Div. DWonLoss
PAC Womens Tennis ChampResultsEULERS20
Team Standings:MECH E GRAD20
ALPHA EPSILON PI20Grove City20SEI01Carnegie Mellon18KSA01
John Carroll10BUNCH O VBALL PLRS02
Wash. & Jeff.10THE NET MONKEYS02
Hiram3Intermediate-Div. EWonLossThiel2CS-320
SUPA10
Individual Champions:DELTA UPSILON 
AFROTC
1
1
0]1. Anne Kister (GC) def. Liz Hanna (JC) 7-THETA XII15,6-2REALISTIC KUMQUATS02
2. Beth Cavanaugh (CM) def. Lisa MoreschiORANGE DOTI02
(JC) 7-5, 6-0Intermediate-Div. FWonLoss3. Devon Cairns (GC) def. Jill AllisonECE GRADS20(W&J) 6-3, 6-2PHI KAPPA THETAI0
4. Amy Fibus (CM) def. Cathy Celia (W&J)PIONEERS A11
1-6, 7-5,6-4SIX'
CSO
1
I
1
15. Tracy Boyd (CM) def. Kristen Beebe (GC)ODIES01
6-1,7-5ATO02
6. Nancy Stevenson (GC) def. Alice Garber
(CM) 6-7,6-1, 6-3UAA Womens X-Country Championsh
Doubles:
1. Suzy Dotter/Beth Cavanaugh (CM) def. 
Daniela Lungoclu/Liz Hanna (JC) 7-6,6-4
2. Anne Kister/Kristen Beebe (GC) def. Jill 
Allison/Cathy Celia (W&J) 6-4, 6-1
3. Chris Marton/Devon Cairns (GC) def. 
Amy Fibus/Tracy Boyd (CM) 7-6, 7-5
NCAA DIV. Ill Football South Region
1. Wash, and Jefferson6-0
Points
98
2. Susquehanna6-095
3. Gettysburg College6-089
4. Ferrum6-0-188
5. Salisbury5-177
6. Widener5-174
Allegheny5-0-174
8. Rhodes4-1-261
9. Hampden-Sydney4-253
10. Wilkes College5-149
11. Franklin & Marshall4-1-142
12. Carnegie Mellon4-1-131
13. Sewanee4-222
14..Millsaps5-220
1. Josefa Benzoni (RO)16:12.5
2. Carolyn Misch (RO)16:30.3
3. Jennifer Shaver (RO)17:16.1
4. Amy Jenssen (BR)17:21.1
5. Jacqueline Quirk (RO)17:42.8
11. Kristin Burgard (CM)18:16.6
13. Jessica Caplan (CM)18:26.7
18. Susan Johnson (CM)18:37.5
28. Pat Fall (CM)18:56.1
50. Trish DiMarco (CM)20:35.9
51. Lynn Truskie (CM)20:46.5
53. Sue Sparks (CM)20:56.2
59. Molly Moritz (CM)21:20.2
64. Rachel Noble (CM)22:32.3
66. Kelly Shannon (CM)22:54.5
Team Placings and ScoresTotal
Rochester (RO)17
Washington (WA)74
Brandeis University (BR)94
Johns Hopkins (JH)99
Emory University (EM)106
Carnegie Mellon (CM)112
Chicago (CH )209
New York University (NYU)220

---------------------------------------------------

S
The Tartan
PORTS
IM  CLUBS  VARSITY  PROFESSIONAL
TARTANS
if
/ /
xrTradvord^Qjinq
'for you. 
Presidente'
//i
tARTMS
Ski]Tartans Trounce Thiel and Grove City
By NEIL GREENBLUM
Tartan Contributing Editor
When travelling north on 1-79 to Mercer 
County its easy to get lost, but between the 
exits for Thiel and Grove City, the football 
Tartans found themselves instead.
Carnegie Mellon came back from a loss to 
ninth-ranked Hiram at Tech Field on October
10 to defeat Grove City (3-4,2-3 conference), 
33-22, Saturday and Thiel (1-5 , 0-4 confer
ence) the Saturday before, 31-7, to improve 
their Presidents Athletic Conference (PAC) 
record to 3-1.
The Tartans looked sloppy at first against 
Thiel, and led only 10-7 at the intermission. 
But in the second half, the ground game took 
over, finishing with 262 yards. PHI Player of 
the Game Brian Mikol. a sophomore offensive 
tackle from Gateway H.S., anchored an offen
sive line that catapulted junior fullback Chris 
Hansen to a game-high 88 rushing yards on 
just 17 carries.
Senior defensive end Chris Haupt corralled 
eight Tomcats, and junior free safety Rob 
Arthur added five tackles to lead the Tartans 
defensively.
Carnegie Mellon picked up right where they 
left off Saturday against the Wolverines at 
Robert E. Thom Field. Almost.
From the opening kickoff the Tartans ran the 
ball 11 consecutive times, taking them to the 
Grove City 20 yard line. Senior quarterback 
Mike Hensel missed two straight passes, and 
then missed a 37 yard field goal. Carnegie 
Mellon has yet to score a point in the first 
quarter all season.
But Grove City didnt score either. The
Tartan plaid gave the Wolverines five net 
offensive yards in the first stanza, and fresh
man linebacker Mike Hession recorded his 
first collegiate interception.
With the wind at their backs in the second 
quarter, Hansen and the Tartans exploded. A
12 yard punt by Grove Citys Tom Karenbauer 
set up a 31 yard touchdown drive which fea
tured five Hansen carries sandwiched around 
a five yard run by senior halfback Bill Heiser. 
Hansens fifth surge was eight yards into the 
end zone at 11:54, giving CMU a 7-0 lead.
Another short Karenbauer punt set up the 
second Tartan TD. On third and 10 from the 
50, Hensel connected with sophomore split 
end Mike Beresford for an 18 yard gain. Five 
plays later, Hansen ran it in from the two.
The Tartans werent done however. With 
2:17 left in the half, Carnegie Mellon recov
ered a fumble by Wolverine QB Jeff Cass on 
a botched option play at the Tartan 49. Hensel 
threw two consecutive strikes to senior SE Joe 
Mancuso of 11 and 12 yards, followed by a 13 
yard toss to Hansen. The junior FB, the PHI 
Player of the Game, then bulled in from the 
one yard line for his third score of the game.
CMUs offensive line had a great deal to do 
with the Tartans 21 -0 halftime lead. I had the 
easy part, Hansen said. You can get four or 
five yards every time when you get holes like
I got. The left halfbacks [sophomore Dean 
Garofola and junior Bob Patterson] blocked 
extremely well on the touchdown runs.
The perhaps-complacent Tartans wouldnt 
score again for nearly 22 minutes.
Freshman Scott Bamyak fumbled the second 
half kickoff, and Grove City recovered at the
Tartan 34. CMU held, but Doug Hart kicked 
a 52 yard field goal. The senior Wolverine 
placekicker is the PACs leading kicker, hav
ing connected on three of four from over 50 
yards, 11 of 15 overall.
Late in the quarter, GC comerback Stacy 
Robeson picked off a Hensel pass and returned 
it 44 yards to the CMU 9. Hensel made an 
excellent tackle to keep Robeson from scor
ing, but Cass hit John Smith with a seven yard 
toss to finish the job. Grove Citys two point
conversion try failed.
Cass added another seven yard scoring pass 
to Karenbauer, who doubles as the Wolver
ines leading receiver, with 37 seconds left in 
the third quarter, shrinking CMUs lead to 
only 21-16.
Once again, Grove City punting came to the 
Tartans rescue, with a little help from CMUs, 
Mike Beresford. Karenbauer shanked a 22 
yarder which Heiser returned to the Grove 
photboyEr ho icLE 21
Tennis Teams Takes Second 
Place at PAC Tournament
By NEAL A. LEVENE
Tartan Stajfvi'riter
The Womens Tennis Team produced a cliffhanger this year in the Presidents Athletic 
Conference (PAC) Women's Tennis Champi
onship Tournament played October 15-16 at 
Grove City College. The tournament winner 
was not decided until the completion of the 
very final match. Unfortunately, the Lady 
Tartans could not pull off their second con
secutive PAC victory; they finished in second 
place behind Grove City by two points.
With all the matches completed except the #3 
doubles final. Grove City was leading Carne
gie Mellon 19-18. Carnegie Mellon needed to 
win the last match to create a 19-19 tie. If the 
two teams had tied, the Lady Tartans would 
have won the tournament because they had 
beaten Grove City 4-2 in head-to-head 
matches.
After winning 13 of 17 matches, the women 
couldn't win one more. The #3 doubles team of 
Tracy Boyd and Amy Fibus fell 7-6 (7-4), 7-5 
to the Grove City team of Chris Marton and 
Devon Cairns. With the Tartans loss the final 
score became: Grove City 20, Carnegie Mel
lon 18, John Carroll 10, Washington & Jeffer
son 10, Hiram 3, and Thiel 2.
The loss was difficult for the team to accept, 
especially after many of the individuals had 
fared well during the tournament. Sophomore 
Beth Cavanaugh (#2 singles), senior Amy 
Fibus (#4 singles), and sophomore Tracy 
Ace Boyd (#5 singles) all won their respec
tive positions. The doubles team of Suzy 
Dottor and Cavanaugh also won the PAC at # 1 
doubles. Freshman Alice Garber (#6) and the 
#3 doubles team of Boyd and Fibus made it to 
the finals where they lost to Grove City oppo
nents.
Despite one loss all season, the Lady Tartans 
had not been favored this year to win the PAC. 
Grove City had an exceptional season this 
year. As a result, they took seven of the # 1 and 
#2 seeds, while Carnegie Mellon received five 
#1 and #2 seeds. This year, Cavanaugh, Boyd, 
and Garber received #1 seeds while the 
doubles team of Dottor and Cavanaugh and the 
team of Fibus and Boyd received #2 seeds. In 
the tournament, both the #1 and #2 seeds 
received byes in the first round; thus, the 
Tartans started with five free points while 
Grove City received seven.
The competition was extremely tough this 
year. Early on the first day the team learned 
there would be no automatic wins at this point 
of the season. Cavanaugh, who won the PAC 
easily at #3 last year, was put to the test this 
year at #2. She received a bye in the first round 
of both singles and doubles so she did not play 
until late on the first day. This left her with 
plenty of time to wait and get nervous for her 
match. When she finally played, it was an 
atypically nervous Beth Cavanaugh that ap
peared against Thiels Mary Shingle. I have 
never felt so much pressure in my entire life, 
she commented after her match. Although
continued on page 22
Cross-Country Teams 
Place at UAA Races\By RICH SHIPLEY
Tartan Staffer iter
Carnegie Mellons mens cross-country 
team had a very successful introduction 
into the University Athletic Association in 
the UAA championships at Case Western 
Reserve on Saturday October 19. They 
finished third among nine schools; in doing 
so, they finished ahead of three nationally 
ranked teams. Rochester won the champi
onship meet with a point total of 39 fol
lowed by Brandeis University with 76.
Dave S upp took top honors for the Tartans 
placing sixth overall with a time of 26:50 on 
the five mile course. Supp is finally getting 
over his injuries and sicknesses that hin
dered him early in the season. He is getting 
back into the form that made him last years 
Presidents Athletic Conference champion.
Keith Stopen finished second for the Tar
tans coming in for an overall placement of
11 and a time of 27:08. Stopen and Supp 
were both leading the race for a while, but 
unfortunately they were not able to hold 
their position past the three mile marker. 
Paul Camine, 16th, Pat Noll, 24th, and Gary 
Harrison, 27th, rounded off the top finish
ers for the Tartans.
After the excellent performance put in by 
the team at Case Western, coach Meckley 
feels much better about the team than he did 
at the beginning of the season. However, he 
is not as confident as he would be if the team
continued on page 24
photo by Jon Kaplan
Kevin Helm raises his hands in triumph 
after winning Saturday's meet vs. Thiel.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan
1||g'-WUSB raw ^11
 jwAgSHgJL*WwVI
WtIittWtmENTERTAINMENT  COMICS  CALENDAR  CLASSIFIEDS
INSIDE
FORBES..........................Page D2
King Kong vs. Godzilla theme for Hallow
een Showing
SYMPHONY..................Page D4
Maazel returns to the Pittsburgh Symphony 
in style
Ballets $500,000 Gatsby Gamble Pays Off
By LESLIE GRIFFIN
Diversions Dance Critic
With the debut of The Great Gatsby this 
weekend, the Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre has 
entered the big time. All the hype around town 
wasnt lying  the production was unprece
dented by anything the PBT has undertaken. 
The sumptuous sets, stylish costumes, timely 
musical score and some top-notch perform
ances from the company made this jazz-age 
extravaganza well worth the ticket price. The 
Great Gatsby was a $500,000 gamble in which 
the PBT came out on top.
The Benedum Center For the Performing 
Arts, with its lavish interior and historical 
significance, was the ideal house for this ele
gant balletic rendering of F. Scott Fitzgeralds 
famous novel. The mood of the roaring twen
ties was everywhere, from the brilliantly lit 
marquee, to the pearls and fancy hats sported 
by many audience members. By the time 
Gunther Schuller, composer and conductor of 
the Gatsby score, mounted the podium and 
launched into the nostalgic overture, the audi
ence was ready for a trip back in time. Incorpo
rating such standards as Makiri Whoopee and 
Aint We Got Fun, Schullers well-orches
trated score gracefully bridged the gap be
tween the classical technique of the dancing 
and the jazzy music appropriate to the time.
In perfect tune with the score were Peter 
Farmers nine breathtaking sets. Gatsbys 
mansion by the sea, complete with electric 
lights in the windows and a maze of bright 
Chinese lanterns strung up for parties, was 
amazing all by itself. Put it with the other sets, 
including the airy expansiveness of Daisys 
apartment, the detailed, squalid murkiness of 
the Valley of Ashes, the tacky love-nest 
Daisys husband Tom keeps for his mistress, 
and the stage became almost an art show. Each 
offering seemed more dazzling than the one 
before.
Farmer also designed the 120 costumes seen 
in the show. These were interesting because 
each one was different, making the party 
scenes where the whole company appears into 
a riot of sequins, feathers and colors. Every 
one was true to the period, with not a single 
continued on page D2
R.E.Ms Solid Beat Rocks Arena
By MEREDITH WOLLINS
Diversions Staffer iter
Approximately 5,100 fans piled into the 
Civic Arena Friday night to see R.E.M. Not 
5,100 fans all dressed in black, spiked hair or 
combat boots,but 5,100 college-age fans (o.k, 
more than half were dressed in black) who 
were excited to see R.E.M. perform and were 
not at the concert to show off their latest 
mohawk or buzz lines. By observing the fans, 
it is apparent that punk is on its way out and 
new wave is on its way in. R.E.M. seems to 
have joined in on this transition. Early albums 
like Chronic Town or Murmur contributed to 
the punk fad while Lifes Rich Pageant and 
their newest album, Document, have played an 
important role in introducing R.E.M.s new 
wave, solid beat, coherent lyrics craze.
The opening band, 10,000 Maniacs did an 
excellent job of warming up the crowd. 
Natalie Merchant, the lead singer sounds like 
a cross between Stevie Nicks and Chrissie 
Hynde. Whats The Matter Here and Gun 
Shy are their most popular songs. Scorpio 
Rising and Dont Talk ended the set and did 
a good job of getting the crowd psyched and 
ready for R.E.M.
At the respectable hour of 8:30, Michael 
Stipe, P.L. Buck, M.E. Mills and W.T. Berry 
opened up the concert with Finest Worksong off of Document while the background 
screen flashed Want, Need in perfect syn
chronization with the beat. All the songs on 
Document are R.E.M.iniscent of the work 
ethic. Therefore, the slides for the new songs 
presented photographs of freight trains, work
ers shoveling dirt, landscapes and lower-class 
suburbs. The photographs defmately added to 
and enforced the work ethic theme that 
R.E.M was trying to impose on the audience. 
The slides also gave a chance for the fans to 
divert their attention to something other than 
Michael Stipe who danced around the stage in 
a white shirt that looked like a dress. Looking 
as attractive as usual, Stipe started the show in 
a sportcoat and the long white shirt and ended 
in a t-shirt and an oversized black coat.
Although in the past R.E.M. has been criti
cized for their muffled lyrics, Stipe seemed to 
have made an effort to make his songs clear 
and audible. Stipes creative and sometimes
The PBT first performance in the Benedum Center was a winner
Concert In Review
profound lyrics had the crowd chanting 
throughout the performance. The only time 
that the crowds expectations were not met 
was when R.E.M. performed Superman. 
The energy and enthusiasm found on Lifes 
Rich Pageant was not reproduced for the live 
performance. However, Exuming Mc
Carthy and Feeling Gravitys Pull rejuve
nated the audience and led up to the highlight 
of the concert: Lets talk about the stock 
market, Stripe bellowed. Lets talk about the 
Soviet Union, shall we? Seems like Russia is 
the newest fashion! Lets talk about T.V. 
Evangelism, cocaine and professional sports, 
shall we? Lets have a party tonight...shall 
we? This short soliloquy introduced R.E.Ms 
most recent chart - climber, Its The End of 
The World As We Know It, (And I Feel 
Fine). The punchy lyrics and fast beat had 
Stipe and his fans jumping around as if they 
were on pogo sticks.
The seemingly negative view of the world 
implied by Its The End Of The World As We 
Know It was counteracted in the first encore 
by Flowers of Guatemala which tells of 
natures beauty. But again the tide changed 
with the next song, Fall on Me which fo
cuses on the problem of acid rain. It was at the 
end of the first encore that Stipe offered the 
audience two points of inspiration: If you're 
in college, dont worry. It doesn't matter any
way. and Don't support Bud or Miller be
cause they both suck ! The highlight of the 
second encore was The One I Love which 
Stipe exclaimed, I wrote this one to myself. 
Stipe closed the third encore by asking the 
audience to restrict civil disobedience to town 
halls and to buy the new album. The hour and 
fortyfive minute concert ended by Stipe sing
ing a song reminiscent of the childrens show, 
The Magic Garden.  Bye for now, say hello 
to never... Bye, so long, if you close the door, 
never have to see the world again !
As long as the band does not forget its musi
cal roots and reaches out to a wider range of 
people, R.E.M. will continue to prove they 
know the pathway to our hearts.
This Week in DH2210
Thursday, Oct. 29
The Exorcist
This extremely graphic horror movie depicts in every last detail the possession of a 12- 
year-old girl and her broken familys attempts to free her of the Devils awesome grip. Un
fortunately, the exorcism involves a lot of violent action and intense language, so if you're 
not into green vomit, demonic voices, and beastly attacks, mind your stomachs. Decent 
acting and production create a frightening realism, and special effects, hellish overtones, 
and bloody terror make up for the poor script. Believe it or not, the story is based on a 1949 
case of exorcism.
Director: William Friedkin
Cast: Ellen Burstyn, Linda Blair, Max Von Sydow
Showtimes: 6,8, 10
Friday, Oct. 30
The Morning After
Ever wake up with the weird feeling you missed something really important the night 
before? In The Morning After, struggling actress Alex Stemberger finds that a drinking 
problem can leave her with more than a hangover. She may have murdered someone ... 
or was she framed? In the process of trying to find out. she falls in love with the former 
cop who is helping her. The suspense mounts as she reconstructs the past in this slightly 
bloody mystery thriller.
Director: Sidney Lumet
Cast: Jane Fonda, Jeff Bridges, Raul Julia
Showtimes: 6,8.10, 12
Saturday. Oct. 31
Nightmare On Elm Street III
The most ingeniously constructed villain of the decade is back, razor-claws a'gleaming 
for this tongue-in-cheek slasher in w hich the murders are committed in the realm of bloody 
dreams. Its taken the local teenagers three movies to try to sack the undead Freddie 
Krueger for his carnage, but they go at it with a vengeance. Key to the killers commercial 
success is his method of slicing clean wounds with his home-made fingerknives. It getN 
a bit repetitive and laughable, but what good slasher doesn't?
Showtimes: 6. 8. 10, 12
Sunday. Nov. 1
Creature From The Black Lagoon in 3-D
Some scientists take the wrong exit from the nature trail and find themselves anal 
what they believe to be a missing evolutionary link. The humanoid with gills pref 
remain missing, however, until he falls for the gratuitous lady explorer without wh( 
50's sci-fi thriller would be complete. The bloody killing would be more violent if tb 
were in color, but the spears coming right at you out of the screen are sufficiently thri 
The exquisite three dimensional techniques are not overplayed, but keep your glass 
or youll really have a headache.
Director: Jack Arnold
Cast: Richard Carlson, Richard Denning, Julia Adams, Antonio Moreno. 
Showtimes: 6,8, 10. 12 
By AMANDA COHEN
ers to 
im no 
; film 
Hing, 
es on

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2The TartanOctober 27,1987
Halloween Show at Forbes: King Kong vs. Godzilla
By EDIE LOCKE
Special to Diversions 
Tonight marks the opening of the King Kong 
vs. Godzilla Halloween show featuring the 
work of seniors Gary Cianciarulo and Timo
thy Triplett. A formal opening is planned for 
Tuesday night and a Halloween costume clos
ing for Saturday.
Storytelling 
Both Mr. Cianciarulo and Mr. Triplett feel 
the most prominent theme in their work is an 
aspect of storytelling. Cianciarulo will be 
exhibiting black and white and color photo
graphs, a print and a drawing, all of which 
contain scenes you can read a story from. 
Mr. Cianciarulo does not actually study artists 
as a basis for his work and describes his pieces 
as something to look at. His concern is with 
storytelling and the representation of scenes or 
visions. When people appear in his photo
graphs they are meant to be props rather than 
the main subject. Cianciarulo turned to photo
graphing from video, finding it to be a more 
attractive medium and explains that some of 
his photographs are outgrowths from video.
Different Approaches to Art and 
Technology 
Mr. Triplett, who will be showing silkscreen 
prints is confident and passionate about his 
work, commenting its my mistress. As with 
Mr. Cianciarulo, Mr. Tripletts work is meant 
to be looked at and read into. The prints tell 
subtle stories and one must decipher the image 
and its characters. Silkscreen for Triplett is 
both a trade and an art form and each has a 
different approach. He seeks technical perfec
tion and takes the technicality of printmaking very seriously. He chooses to specialize 
in that field and is also known as Tim screenmaster Triplett, explaining, Im not just
getting lucky with the media. Its all inten
tional. Artistically, Triplett describes his 
prints as visual saturation with plenty to 
look at. His main goal is to create depth and 
have the viewer interact with his work: to 
give information, yet hide it. Triplett seeks to 
make the two dimensional space three dimen
sional and will be hanging the same print with 
different lighting effects. While these illusionary/optical effects are of great importance in 
his pieces, drugs only affect our work on 
Saturdays both Cianciarulo and Triplett re
port. As a closing quote the two artists only 
wish to add, Be prepared for the unexpected.
Irish Folk Music at Graffiti
Great Gatsby a Big Success
continued from page D1 
detail out of place.
Overall, the cast did a splendid job. Scott 
Jovovich as Jay Gatsby, the wealthy protago
nist who wants only to rekindle the love be
tween he and Daisy, was handsome and ex
pressive. Jovovich looked the part, replete in 
his white suit with his dark hair slicked back. 
Dancing with power mixed with a vaguely 
boyish charm, he dealt well with the Andre 
Prokovskys innovative choreography. Even 
without Fitzgeralds words to guide the audi
ence, Jovovich made the mystery and pathos 
of the character clear.
Janet Popeleski as Daisy was not as success
ful. but she did a competent enough job. Daisy 
came across with little personality, mainly due 
to the blandness of Prokovskys choreography 
for the character. She seemed more like an
object than a person and it was hard to under
stand why Gatsby worked so hard at pursuing 
her. Part of the problem was the ridiculous wig 
she was wearing  its hard to take anyone 
seriously when their hair looks like a helmet.
While many of the other main characters did 
fine jobs, one in particular stood out. Jennifer 
Davis as Myrtle, Daisys husbands mistress 
shook the house with her show-stopping erotic 
seduction of Tom. Davis performed her small 
role with unforgetable vigor. Not surprisingly, 
she got the loudest applause at the curtain call.
PBT has exclusive rights to The Great 
Gatsby for three years and a national tour is 
planned following this past weekends pre
miere. Congratulations are in order for the 
PBT. If this terrific show is any indication, the 
company is setting its sights higher than it has 
in the past.
By RONALD G. REDMOND
Diversions Staffwriter
Lovers of songs to drink by, mark your 
calendar: October 29, at Graffiti - The Andy 
M. Stewart and Manus Lunny Concert.
Andy M. Stewart is the lead singer of the 
famed Celtic band Silly Wizard, and with the 
band has successfully toured the United States 
for eight years. In that time American audi
ences have grown to love him as much as 
European audiences. Since 1984 he has 
brought to the U.S. an added treat, Manus 
Lunny.
Stewart was bom and raised in Perthshire, 
Scotland and comes from a family noted for its 
brilliant singers. He, with Silly Wizard, has 
gained recognition for his beautiful interpreta
tion's of the traditional songs of Scotland and 
Ireland. Andy has also mastered the art of 
traditional style songwriting. His solo album 
By The Hush was named Folk Album of the 
Year by Melody Maker and was awarded sec
ond place in the Folk and Country section of 
Britains Music Trade Association Awards. A 
Glint of Silver, Silly Wizards latest album, 
was recently awarded an Indie by the Inde
pendent Record Distributors Association as 
Album of the Year in Celtic Music. Stewart is 
also an accomplished tenor banjo player (who 
recently placed third on the Frets magazine 
Readers Poll awards) and tin whistle player 
and adds humour to Silly Wizards live perAB Coffeehouse Presents:
-*  - ?  'v  - >   ' ...  -v, /.
REGISTRATION 1FOR THE 6th ANNUAL
AIRBANDCOMPETITION
T,ysgrcT. Opth:Es 29t, NRb:hLh::T
(GhAiEtbtbho BctE PhmEA:Es 14t,)
$25.00 Deposit Required (refundable)
FIRST TEN BANDS ONLY!
1st Prize $200
2nd Prize $100
3rd Prize $50
Funded By Activities Fee
o
formances (a Gaelic Rob Bemat!).Andy Ste
wart is considered to be one of the finest 
singers and songwriters in contemporary folk.
Manus Lunny has, in a short time, managed 
to achieve considerable fame in Celtic music 
in Ireland, Europe and North America. Lunny 
was raised in a traditional music family in 
Kildare, Ireland, and therefore credits his fam
ily background and upringing for his wealth of 
Celtic material. Speaking Gaelic (his parents 
were both native speakers) helps him to not 
only sing the traditional Gaelic songs but also 
to compose songs of his own. In addition to his 
fine guitar and bouzouki playing, Mannus is 
considered a voice strong enough to back 
Stewart, one of the few. He has also been a 
member of the Wild Geese, and is currently 
performing in a band which includes his older 
brother, Donal, a former member of the Bothy 
Band and Moving Hearts. He also has ster
ling stage credentials having appeared with 
the famed Irish actress Siobhan McKenna in 
The Midnight Court.
This concert is a must see at Graffiti on 
October 29 at 7:30. Tickets can be obtained in 
advance, for $8, at Irish Design Center, 
Kaufmans, and Heads Together; tickets may 
also be obtained at the door for $12. Some
thing Andrew Carnegie would have wanted 
you to see!

---------------------------------------------------

October 27,1987The TartanPage D3
WRCT: Skull-pounding Drum Machines and More
By MANNY THEINER
Special to Diversions
No matter how much misinformed critics 
accuse WRCT of playing only hardcore and 
experimental music those who really listen to 
us know the honest truth. Actually, we play the 
widest musical variety of any station in Pitts
burgh, and for a good reason - the DJs are all 
dedicated volunteers who maintain a genuine 
interest in the music they play. So heres a 
salute to the DJs, and a great variety of music 
to boot:
Big Black  Songs About Fucking (Touch 
and Go) Breaking up is an idea that has 
occurred to far too few groups; sometimes to 
the wrong ones. Thats what Steve Albini, 
voice of one of the most raucous bands of the 
eighties, had to say about the imminent dis
memberment of Big Black. This trio of noisy 
Chicago boys plus one drumbox conquered a 
considerable audience and released several 
records, now classics of independent rock 
history, in a relatively short time.
Their swan song album features more skullpounding drum machine and Killing Joke-ish 
cruncher basslines on tunes like Bad Penny, 
Fish Fry, and Kasmir S. Pulaski Day. 
They also do a noise-rock version of 
Kraftwerks The Model. Currently its pos
sible to hear Big Black at almost any time on 
WRCT. Talk about going out with a bang! 
Highest position in WRCT Top 55: #1.
Unknownmix  Mix 3 (Recommended, 
Switz.) Recommended Records is highly es
teemed for its catalog of new art-rock, but 
this record is planted firmly in the field of 
synth-funk. These smart Swiss never lapse 
into the easy repetition of the dreaded dance 
mix. Instead, vocalist Magda Vogel shrieks 
and warbles like Nina Hagen, while Ernst 
Thoma and Knut Remond provide weird elec
tronic pulses and varying digital rhythms. 
Those who admire the poetic lyrics can also 
preen themselves in the shiny silver mirror 
album cover. This hot stuff can usually be 
found on Dave Millers show on Wednesdays 
6-9 p.m., among many others. Top 55: #5.
Felt  Poem of the River (Creation) The 
visions of Lawrence, singer/songwriter of 
Felt, are based on a foundation of shimmering 
acoustic guitar and organ. He infuses Decla
ration with a dose of British indie pop but the 
other songs are more reminiscent of the ethe
real side of Velvet Underground. Felt are one 
of the favorites of Brian, whose shift is on 
Tuesdays 6-9 p.m. Top 55: #25.
Celtic Frost  Into the Pandemonium
(Combat) Its unusual to see a metal band 
played so often on WRCT, but theres a good 
reason. Celtic Frost plays the most original 
and inventive heavy metal in a long time on 
epic anthems like Inner Sanctum and 
Babylon Fell. They also acknowledge the 
influences of dark gothic rock on Sorrows of 
the Moon and the operatic Rex Irae, and 
Skinny Puppy horror dance music, which 
doesnt really fit, on One In Their Pride. 
Whether youre a headbanger or just a wuss, 
Celtic Frost will make you believe in new 
possibilities for metal beyond moldy Ozzy 
riffs. Celtic Frost is regularly featured on the 
shameless metal mania of Simon and Marcela, 
Friday and Saturday nights respectively 9-12 
p.m. Top 55:#32.
Jesus Couldnt Drum  Good Morning, 
Mr. Square (Lost Moment) There are two 
sides to this amazing British duo. First they 
take on the world of pop with bright, bouncy 
songs such as Jesus Couldnt Drum and the 
pseudo-salsa Apple Pie for Tea. Flip over to 
the second side, and wacky experimental artnoise fills the room with xylophone, guitar
effects, and unusual sampling and tape ma
nipulation. This album defies any genre that 
you care to name and dares you to just enjoy 
yourself immensely. Appropriately enough, a 
comic book is also enclosed. Jesus Couldnt 
Drum is a prime example of the British and 
American indie pop played by Frank on Sun
days 6-9 p.m. Top 55: #24.
Opal  Happy Nightmare Baby (SST) 
There are more seventies and psychedelic rock 
ripoffs on this record than are humanly pos
sible, including blatant T. Rex, Pink Floyd, 
and Led Zeppelin influences. The trancelike 
vocals of Kendra Smith, formerly of legendary 
groups Dream Syndicate and Clay Allison, 
overlay lots of jangling and twanging classic
guitar riffs. In other words, a rockin good time 
that buries the Grateful Dead miles below the 
ground. Opal is favored by Spermblasters 
Ralph and Lenny on Thursdays 9-12 p.m. Top 
55: #3.
Opal will bring their classic yet fresh brand 
of rock to the Graffiti on November 16. Others 
upcoming shows recommended by those in the 
know include the avant-garage Pere Ubu at 
Graffiti on October 29, blues guitarist Little 
Ed Williams and the Blues Emperials at the 
Decade on November 3, and SST stars Fire
hose and Slovenly at the Electric Banana on 
November 5. Well be waiting at the door to 
check your hat and coat.
V"  ... / ^r \ OHPT TT"\TJT\ hpy TT? A nPTH T7 I
^ J a 1 UUJLvJ xJHLcIjAI.JLvtl ^
TMs Week
Tue., Oct. 27th at 5:00 and 8:30 pm 
Wed., Oct. 28th at 6:00 pm 
JUNIOR REP 87 - THE MEMORANDUM 
by Vaclav Havel
Coming Soon
Nov. 2nd, 3rd & 4th 
JUNIOR REP 87 - THE IMPORTANCE OF BEING EARNEST
For more information call: 268-2407
STUDIO THEATRE THIS WEEK is brought to you by the Department of Drama
The Best Place In Town For A Wing Out!
Mike Kalina-Pgh. Press
Over a Dozen Sauces From Mild-Mild to Death Sauce!!
Open 3:30 p.m. T-H till 10:30 
F-S till 11:30 
Open Sundays * till 8:30.
PALL421-WING
Our Ribs?
Best in the City
-Mariam's Coast to Coast Dining Guida
RIB HOUSE
Ribs  Chicken  Barbecue
2125 
MURRAY 
AVENUE 
(SQ. HILL)
The Presidents Are Coming!
Catch all the exciting action on WRCT FM 88.3 
this week as the defending PAC champion 
Washington and Jefferson Presidents roll into 
Pittsburgh to take on the Tartans for the 
conference crown.
Tuesday 8:30 PM - "Sportsline"
Scott Barnyak, Marvin Germany and Brian Mikol 
talk about Carnegie Mellon's preparation for W&J, 
the number two team in the country.
Saturday 1:30 PM - Football Game
The Tartans hope to impeach the Presidents at 
Tech Field. Bring your walkman to the game and
listen to all the exciting action.
Coming Soon
The 1987-88 Basketball Tartans are waiting in the wings and 
WRCT is set to bring you everything from the opening tap to 
the final horn. Tartan Basketball coverage begins November 
20th with the Tipoff Tournament, as the Tartans hope to shoot 
the roof off Skibo Gym.
Tartan hocky, too, will begin next month. Listen to WRCT as 
Carnegie Mellon shoots and scores their way to another West 
Penn Collegiate Hocky Association Title.
WRCT Sports - Recognized around the 
neighborhood as the leader in 
Tartan Sports Coverage!
Funded by Your Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Page D4The TartanOctober 27,1987
Milkmen and Maniacs
By DAN BIDWA
Diversions Record Critic
In My Tribe
10,000 Maniacs 
Bucky Fellini
Dead Milkmen
The new albums from 10.000 Maniacs and 
the Dead Milkmen show the different ways 
that bands can mature. The third album from
10.000 Maniacs, In My Tribe, shows a matura
tion of the band into a quieter but no less 
intense musical form, while the third album 
from the Dead Milkmen shows a distinct lack
of annoyance, which is what made their earlier 
albums appealing (in an odd sort of way).
On their new album. 10,000 Maniacs may 
have lost some of their drive, but their songwriting has improved equally. Natalie Mer
chant and Robert Buck do the majority of the 
songwriting. Buck, who plays guitars for the 
band, provides the majority of the bands 
music, which is a lot lighter than their last 
albums, based mostly on acoustic and acoustic-sounding guitars. Most of the songs are 
fairly slow in comparison to earlier albums, 
but make up for their lack of speed with lyrical 
content, written mostly by Merchant. As a 
result, the album is not overly impressive on 
first listen, but becomes more intriguing with 
each successive playing. The albums single, 
an updating of Cat Stevens Peace Train", is 
true to the song's nature (and it has a tambou
rine, so it has to be okay), but it isnt as good 
as some of the other songs on the album, such 
as Whats The Matter Here?, Valdi Cries, 
or Around The Campfire, which inciden
tally features Michael Stipe of REM for about 
a minute as an other voice. While 10,000 
Maniacs might not rock out like they used to, 
theyve lost none of their energy, directing it 
into their excellent songwriting instead. One 
could even say that theyve matured, becom
ing not necessarily better, but different, and 
just as good.
On the other hand, maturity isnt always 
good. In the case of Bucky Fellini, the third 
album from the Dead Milkmen, its downright 
disastrous. The Dead Milkmens appeal has 
always been in their role as the snotty brats of 
the punk r< ck scene; however, on this album, 
all those fa ors have been toned down. Their 
snottiness liched, their brattiness is fairly 
safe, and the <nly thing even remotely punkish about the:r songs is their short lengths. 
Either the La id has run out of easy targets, 
imagination, ambition, any combination of the 
three. Earlier Milkmen albums went for the 
most annoying and imaginative topics pos
sible, but this album doesnt have that edge to 
it. The only songs that might be even remotely 
distressing to the average listener are Watch
ing Scotty Die (Scottys a dog who meets 
toxic waste) and Instant Club Hit (Youll 
Dance to Anything), which proves its title to 
be false, since its too slow to dance to anyway. 
This is a throwaway album that doesnt meas
ure up to earlier efforts by the band. This may 
be an attempt to introduce the Dead Milkmen 
to the greater public that might have been 
turned off by the bands earlier attitude, but at 
the musics expense. Same guitar noise, but 
just that, without the imagination of earlier 
albums. Maturity just doesnt suit some bands, 
and the Dead Milkmen is one band that should 
have stayed young.
Have you read Vox Populi today?
Book Review: Church Chat
By RONALD G. REDMOND
Diversions Staffer iter 
Everyman Today Call Rome is a book on 
the Roman Catholic faith. The author, 
Charles A. Coulombe, has some opinions 
and criticism of his faith. He also stresses 
that he loves his faith, and would die for it, 
but he believes that it is better that one 
should live for his faith.
In the books he states that he feels that the 
Church is straying from its ways in the 
teaching of the faith and so it is endanger
ing the everlasting life of this generation. 
He blames the entrance of new wave
He tackles the problems 
as well as the causes. He 
hits hard at the core of 
questions that many 
Christians are asking of 
the Church...
theologians into the Faith. The author also 
gives some history of the Church and says 
that after 1956 the children of the Catholic 
community have been raised with little or 
no knowledge of the Church. Mr. Cou
lombe also states that it is up to all of us, the 
people in the church community, the rever
end fathers, the Bishops, and he even en
treaties His Holiness the Pope to help en
force the Bible and its teachings. Thus, we 
and our children may gain the Heavenly 
reward in the afterlife.
The book, in no way, pulls any punches. 
He tackles the problems as well as the
causes. He hits hard at the core of questions 
that many Christians are asking of the 
Church, and not obtaining responses. Ev
eryman is aimed at the confusion of todays 
Catholic youth. It puts the Church, its 
teachings, and its heritage into focus. The 
author is twenty-four years old and consid
ers himself as enlightening his generation 
as well as the generations to come.
In a style, as it is said, reminiscent both of 
Chesterton and Saturday Night Live, Char
les Coulombe evaluates the changes in the 
Catholic Church since Vatican II. Cou
lombe, has been many things: college stu
dent (and subsequent degrees); three and a 
half years as a stand-up comic on the Sunset 
Strip; a Congressional Aide; and doing 
comedy routines in Yiddish at Grossingers 
Resort in the Catskills. Through all this he 
has been a Catholic; he wrote the book 
Everyman Today Call Rome to show the 
problems in todays Church teachings, but 
his comedy experience has rubbed off in 
his writing; in an advertisement promoting 
the book it states, If George Carlin wrote 
theology, this would be it.
This book is for all, except those with 
closed minds. The book is well written, 
establishes its main point about todays 
Catholic teachings, and offers feasible 
ways to right the problems in the teaching 
methods. Applause is due to Mr. Coulombe 
for both tackling such a forbidden topic as' 
analyzing the faith which he truly believes, 
and writing a book which everyone will 
love. This book gets its points across with 
clarity and wit, and yet it still lets one 
decide for oneself.
Maazel Handles Different Music Styles With Style*
By LORI MAURER
Diversions Staffwriter
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, under 
the distinguished direction of Lorin Maazel. 
presented its fifth set of subscription concerts 
for the 1987-88 season this weekend. The 
program featured Webers Overture to Euryanthe , Opus 81; a Pittsburgh Symphony pre
mier of Nielson's Concerto for Flute and 
Orchestra with renowned guest soloist, James 
Galway; and Bruckners Symphony No. 3 in D 
minor.
The concert opened with the vibrant 
Euryanthe Overture from Weber's opera. Euryanthe was composed between 1822 and 
1823 and had its first performance as an opera 
in 1823. Although Webers opera as a whole is 
rarely revived, his overture remains as a staple 
in the orchestral repertoire.
Maazel successfully guided the orchestra in 
tempo and dynamics changes throughout Eu
ryanthe , in the contrast between the majestic 
allegro and the romantic largo and in the reca
pitulation of the themes at the end of the piece. 
The strings gave a magnificent performance of 
the challenging triplet melody in the allegro 
section and although the brass at times were 
overbearing, they generally performed well 
during the piece.
Nielsens Flute Concerto for Flute and Or
chestra with featured soloist James Galway 
followed Euryanthe. Nielsen, an eminent and 
prolific Danish composer, created six sym
phonies, two operas, incidental music, choral 
works, concertos and chamber music during 
his lifetime. His flute concerto was completed 
in 1926 and was performed for the first time in 
that same year.
Nielsens Concerto is comprised of two
movements: Allegro moderato and Allegretto. 
His work is typical of most solo flute literature 
in the respect that much of the solo line evokes 
pastoral images. However, Nielsen contrasts 
the pastoral elements of his work with a harsh 
accompaniment. In particular, there is a recur
rent clash between a gentle flute melody and a 
discordant trombone accompaniment in the 
first movement. The second movement is 
decidedly upbeat and brings the Concerto to a 
buoyant close.
The Concerto was a perfect showcase for the 
talents of James Galway, a flutist known by 
many through his 30 best-selling albums and 
his frequent television appearances. Galways 
flawless technique, warm tone and his per
sonal interpretation of the piece made up for 
the occasionally domineering accompani
ment. The Concerto was highlighted with 
Galways mesmerizing interpretation of the 
cadenzas. Galway followed the Concerto with 
an impromptu performance of Irish folk songs, 
displaying his versatility to the delight of the 
audience.
The concert closed with Bruckners Sym
phony No. 3 in D Minor. Bruckners admira
tion of Wagner is apparent in this piece be
cause of its sweeping and impassioned nature. 
Maazel brought out the impassioned elements 
in the Orchestra's performance and also 
handled the more subdued sections with mas
tery. The woodwind solos were flawless but 
the piece was marred by problems in the brass 
section. Although the french horns were excel
lent, particularly in their intonation, the trum
pets had problems in dynamic levels and the 
trombones were out of tune in some sections of 
the piece. Overall, the piece flourished, due to 
Maazels interpretation and through excellent 
performances in the strings and woodwinds.James Galway delights symphony crowd in a performance of Nielsens Flute Concerto

---------------------------------------------------

BLOOM COUNTYBy Berke Breathed
Funded by Student Dormitory Council
MICHAEL JACKSON 
CONSPIRACY THEORY #37. 
PAP: He'S ACTUALLY 
KATHCSElV TURNER INi uurr 5 \hack\FAce~
-me mkc\ 
Enj jvsTcmn
WRE? POWN...\ TAUCS HM\ y^-s BROKEN
I KNEW... I KNEW THIS WOULD HAPPEN WHILE 1 MAS IN MY r<.., ki/NPezwK"
'"w oyItWo hh *fl r~\, 1 jtint nit Wj^TROUBUt. f
I'M WA THORHHUMP 
CEO. OF BLOOM COUNTY 
PROPUCVONS. INC. '..HERE 
TO PtSCUSS AN UGLY J RESULT OF OUR CURRENT
l eyLnI mm.es... \
UNION THUGS VANDALIZED YESTERPAYS SUNDAY RERUN COmiC BY 5CRAMJNG AN ANTI - MANAGEMENT OBSCENITY mHIN THE ARTWORK. TO-mese itasiSeoitTTERRORISTS, THERe CANse but one response
ORAPH/C 
VANDALISM /HEIGHTENED VIGILANCE AGAINST FURTHER ATTACK f
WMCowft.INCI *** W* \&k__
THIS IS IT' .TH NONE
673:vi
NO OFFENSE L
Bum COUNTY CHAIRMAN
sUy mnItDjNo DSIS UU
JUST AN ANGEL OF 
EQUITY OVERSEEING 
EVENTS DURINO THIS 
TROUBLE? TIME OF 
LABOR RESTLESSNESS... ,
-mem 15 BUT ONE MY ID RESPONP TO -mese GANGSTERS ANP PHILISTINES...W*4ow/cw
yet were we those mo 
snjeC yKKjOS NS . /ne
OF THE UNFAIR USE OF 
THIS MEDIUM FOR 
PROPAGANDA PURPOSES ..The UpO C!\\.;p!T
* UNIONS 
? 'C * V A? i
somme clams
WE'RE AT 1FISHERMAN'S
Bern sDyIWUA iNeep
TREATED CONSTANCY IN MY 
DISRESPECTUF. MILO / ANP 
FULLY.. I'M SORRY. BUT 
<-1 LABOR STRIFE \ - ALWAYSA hives me
D7y >< m  y IyODU
mnmexs!Imp. opi/$* rmoceNAHM LOVE IS THE PLEASANT 
INTERVAL BETWEEN 
MEETING A BEAUTIFUL CHRL 
ANP PISCOVERINO SHE LOOKS 
LIKE Af\HAPPOCK
MILO. THE tUORP * WALKOUT " 
MAKES Me
iFKDUIn the absence of 
the striking union 
characters. Bloom County 
management officials 
 ill ELP temporarily 
providing the day's 
waggish entertainment.
' UNION 1 WmjEMENT
Today: Mr. Will.I. 
kmidson. Asst. Director 
of Accounting
PEOPLF ASK ME."SO WHAT'S 
IN YOUR ANXIETY CLOSET * 
AND I SAY. JACKIE PRESSER 
WITH AN UZI
BILL CASEY WALKED UP TO The GATES OF HEAVEN ANP SAID TO ANGEL GABREPGfiBRieL... f~~, \ST GABRIEL
fc'Hr aFrI 7\yig; GABRIEL. 
^ NONO
OH Wm THIS. W.A.-JUST SETTLE WITH me STRIKERS
Today:
Ms. Leona OX onnor, 
Kxec. Vice President 
of lUoom County, Inc. 
will tell a funny 
political joke.
m tnLnCE DSIS
BUT BINKLEY'S 
if y INDEPENDENT . 
* NONUNION 
ANXIETIES /
P THIS GIG IS A CLOSED 'f SHOP.'IF YA WANNA WORK. YOURE UNION ' NOW GeTOUTTOTHe picket une.. anp dontFORGET TO PAY PUBS FOR ^ OCTOBER'
W* VO 'V/p CHANT PURPLE < 
SNORKLCWACKER / IT'S A WALKOUT.' j,t ISTS 60/ JTHAT'S FUNNY UONA '
FIRED
All of us here in 
management are 
behind you 
the whole way, 
I. eona!
<o for it, girl!
New Marketing Director 
Ned "Crackein I p" 
katston was going to tell 
the story about the priest, 
the rabbi and the girdle 
salesman, but he has 
apparently choked in the 
clutch.
Y Y YA SAID THERE WWAS ABOUT S S 5S5556VCNTY MILLION PEOPLE REAPIN'IMS ,^ THING?
Ned soon will shm minili; 
back to shipping where 
be should be happy to 
learn, his audience will 
lie about two.
.1VOSE CRUMMY, JNMtTEFVL. EMPLOYEES.. WE STRIP'S PROFITS PLUMMETING...THE PUBLIC'S LOYALTY PKlFTm AWAY UKE FALL lAVe5-J -JL 7VB
P0N6?
OF COURSE /A CWBtf. WHAMMY / TOMORROW 160 ON WITH AN 1AC0CCA APPLE Pte, AU AMERICAN PTTCH ~.
g\c \duf pddm DiIS oSIN weep...TEMPORARYCHARACTERS-.Mm
KEEP YER SHORTS ON.. IM A MOV IN' JEST AS LCKETY PAMN SPLIT AS AH CAN. /
By William Barnes & Matthew Diamond
Hy &<jys' TOC^PUjeE yL ANb
^cxx. LOST IM THE uJOCtoSBuwt>poOt>1vss"S\\xvNV-'vy.
TELUM& Ht! 
HO OUL V4fSMtVs WSPtCTffe TCMXTV'NUH-OH
^ yupi IT'S ({ 
TRftWT IOW1
<30T ho CCM6
COITH US'
P(p) O q 871^^1ATCARI
0

---------------------------------------------------

Overbad
I'M GONH A <
HO VIC. U//By Danny Fahs
ir HCM eetoiOrS^
/TTWe ORD5R.
f BLeUiB^XTS OF THIS AfOD
OF TH UAieR COAST  AMD SAfeOAKO ST/les 
k A2e STiLu Oser? 11O j
mjAzrxuMt A*ait-Afeml TSCTOR6.
vmi  : : >:'zlMe/34r/WSTV8 IS owe OF TH6S
Feto exrAMT groups /W4c Tfc/M&
A AeuoiON THAT oMce
TartnSfwi MUCtf OF ASTASIA./
> .-Of'Off?
t IM A
[NO^SM 
titEx GO/I
:^rSr /is we efJTCR, F 1StMf To STW WITH 0.0,1 -rwe 7&cW GOtW/|K?& THose ti)Ho tHreH'
^ RPTtTmK 7UGRrntAit csEhaTaE( " V . HARSHLY DALf W* *.Xv.v
Xv.v].v.;.;.;.jXwXjv.v.w
Xv.y
:
TheEAIWorlcIwXvXwXwl
ooveGMMeurAuctis THeM -To CortTINe *Tt> 6AS
v this TeMPte-^
f Hey, I Stud t xw
1 Ptone K
\oVeR THAT Cd A/
v ^ ^ ^
IMypp^ T!lh) i@l[r By Jim Vorhees
THERE MU5T BE 
MORE SINNERS ^ 
k ftfcOUTO'- -THERE 
NAVE TO
un d erwn
GOT 2.0 
1 MORE OF 
' THESE 
&JBLES 
VTO SELL. Hrwii lil WW^atyi
OH RAPTURE I 
A V0UM6 
WOMAN q. NO 
txxiBT lost ^ 
IMA SEA oF^ 
i1!
NFNM<JU
iK&ftf1
1 ( Ic^evJ wett tom 
i |ciMld+e\V
ordH
EXCUSE ME 
MISS
^DIDJA SAY.
QF-'uns" ?
iSr 00H, RAPTURE
Spi Carne giiMlM LOOKIN' FOR
'OmanEATURE S.
T VIOLEwr

---------------------------------------------------

verCoad'Ey *BS JJenRins
MO^Oj IX iOlHCTOVHTCbl TH^MOn/lg-( I^DOM<r#?rV/I WAMMA WATCH TH5e* I 
TCAf\J S<^ MY u/ATcH. 
S'-2^. T'M C&ity&D.
jrcA*jVS POMcRTV. XCvMJS^ ci=a,though. 
QOfcS TRAT COVAJT ? 
Coc/kJTwHAT? MOv/ic=S ?
TUfc Sei A IS Mv// W6 T/* , _ DoH^erv^X Hops /0OT*r WA^JTcr Q 7b WATCH 
^ Mo\/i. c>\2& >
Vookts MOT MAIC/a^ 
seu$. U/H AT DO WATCKtS 
/4AVe TO DO U/iTK $6* 9
&Xj'Q6*y9lNC>70 8 /K/ a MOVie''?
7s/Oy SAiD Srti^ wa$ Go/^6 To SA.Jj
W14AT5 AUTHIS > 
A.BOc/T A S<A VOVic'l
\l( is rr MOVJW6\l
' V Pirrssu^aH?,
ALRIGHT, SKULLsDyFlIL you ' kpoific, HeneP/
wrfy, iw
InkspotsBy Kurt Shaw1/ 50 KV*f THeU 'PUrw SHULL,e hF,
PEA! WorldBy Andy Durkin
mr. w^ywcll /
KgSlto
'Gentlemen, there has been rumors of a corporate takeover. My 
sources say that it is someone on this board. Any suggestions?"
|-f SiTt dot-ii NeeA CWKi^
Houii ^iUuScjlM
te Me SMWliklSfttU
XiT' VPPC/ /
Co^. H-v 5^
fXjgjvHi! +Kis PR
^JgwkMriiWiif
for Me^SfXTt
^ *<* soire. ^enf/ewe* 
ere uj,fi, options 0<iaif ON; hftjjr
WthMmaH klGG nbd
HofssetvH *r^
n3ts i.k +*1*'r>CC> \/a GEnHL^N^
AMP ill EXPLAIN EVERYTHIN 6jy
UH9RE
fWell Uesci 7^<S
I'A CO Hi ovtyw
IMv a ^^S3: 
S?1 iP?J9rV

---------------------------------------------------

smmMswit
By John Tafe
By Scott Fertig
ne h Pie Kneu/ 
WeV shfiffKin/
^CKookif bour
ISO r\ w*5g\cV>eck*<j ^nxs^rcorp/ pP*EtLAN<F
ZAftPWfcy'lft'OlW
wmw.
fei
HARD TIMESBy Tom Muslal
HS DtrS/T "StM 
C TOO &AD0 ( L b TT y 0 STON/CD-UOIC/^^
,_____ MA^e,
Uu-. X'M ST<J HARR iS, 
y VOUR. ROOMHATEfliCTC. /V^i Ujrfo sfep Viifc e/x/les-S 
^o-ivS!^ cfu;een /
/K/l (Knd W^lCO. ^
JfLv>WGfo?-SV^i C
Voo Volu
vLSS Mt
J wcA*- tfAAJd>HA*-ty 
\ J 510-1 *N?>] p ^FA*^> ?JMS,
X PcFI/vJlTtLY AV/ltA^
v PfLC>6AV-V A
\ y
X Hope HE DCGSMT 
0 57 A Ht-ro
G 5^?Po^-T Hv>
mle82^TV
W^LL, -L' C>E7eiL n,wilbv
X./A U)^IL ftc 6-000 FfcvcA^
/ rTH ~^\i/O^0TlME
XF H
ovTA
poirrefcof 
NFOOT?fc*l 
T gwp^ X) 
V^LL H\hA ,
A oiA'pOc"y. 5mits
fjc *-> fk\/*\\- 
( T
d633*fT
.l.C**A* ,
collegiate crossword
Q Edward Julius Collegiate CW8703

---------------------------------------------------

October 27,1987The TartanPage D9
Great Appalachian Cousin Barfathon in The Curse
Last week I was driving all over creation, 
going on communist-inspired talk shows 
along with all the psychologists who tell 
people how to have better relationships with 
their orthodontists and raise kids that wont 
commit mass murder or turn homosexual on 
em, and I met this one husband-wife 
psychiatrist team who were experts on how 
to have sex when youre fat, only they 
looked like they hadnt tried it lately, and 
they taught me how to start humanizing 
my relationships with my immediate family, 
even though most of my immediate family is 
perverted like me.
Joe Bob Goes 
to the Drive-In
Anyhow, it dawned on me along about 
9:30 a.m. in Denver, right after I finished 
my part of the show and right before the 
organic Zen burglar who got off cocaine by 
hypnosis was about to go onit dawned on 
me that this humanizing deal is whats 
been wrong with me. All these years I had 
non-humanized relationships. Like, to give 
you an example, take my ex-girlfriend 
Cherry Dilday. The reason it never worked 
out was I was kangaroo-izing the relation
ship. Part of the reason was Cherry Dilday 
had a face that looked like a kangaroo that 
got mashed flat on the interstate.
Another thing I realized about my life is 
how Im afraid of my sexual feelings. This 
one was explained to me in Seattle by Dr. T. 
Emmett Scranton of Frankfurt, KY, the 
world-renowned expert on the sexually 
handicapped. Dr. Scranton told me that my 
obsession with 38 triple Ds is actually a 
desire to be rolled into a doughnut and 
dunked by a Lily Tomlin look-alike. Now 
that I know this, Im trying to flex my
psychosexual libido and circumnavigate my 
naval.
But heres the biggie. It happened in 
Cleveland while I was rappin with Dr. 
Sullivan Sturges of the Betty Ford Brain 
Research Center, and Dr. Sturges stopped 
me in my tracks when he diagnosed my 
psychopathia El Chico digestibus, which is 
a very serious brain disorder caused by 
eating too many frozen Meskin TV dinners. 
Fortunately, I have the mild form, caused by 
consuming an average 38 burritos a week, 
and not the class A version, which involves 
actually crossing the border, finding a 
Meskin chef, and saying, Ill have one of 
them goat burgers, por favor. This more 
serious type frequently includes massive 
gunshot wounds and missing cars. All I can 
say is this, I immediately went in for tests, 
got my brain flushed out and sucked dry, 
and I feel like a new man.
Next weeks column: The History of the 
Encyclopedia Britannica: Part 1: European 
Mammals.
Speaking of brain tumors, this new flick 
The Curse is one of the finest wart-face 
Appalachian cousin barfathons of this 
month. Directed by David Keith, Mr. 
Bodacious Ta Tas his ownself, the guy 
from An Officer and a Gentleman. Its 
about a giant meteor that lands in east 
Tennessee and drips outer-space mucous 
into the water supply and turns Farmer 
Green and his family into Farmer Gangrene 
and his bedroom of twitching maniac scab
faced mutants.
Its got a great performance in it by Claude 
Akins, as the Bible-thumping farmer who 
cant understand why his apples are full of 
alien wonder works and his wife is starting 
to look like Bette Davis and trying to carve 
the children. Of course, theres only one 
thing powerful enough to stop the DEMendelssohn performs Gershwin
By TAMMY WILLIS
Diversions Staffwriter
On Sunday October 11, 1987 at 8 PM, the 
Mendelssohn Choir opened up its subscription 
series with A Gershwin Gala. This Gala 
event marks the fourth of its subscription sea
sons.
A Gershwin Gala was performed in com
memoration to the famous song writer George 
Gershwin. Known for giving jazz the same 
reputation as classical music, Gershwin lived 
a short productive life. He was bom in New 
York on September 26, 1898. His first major 
hit song Swanee was written when he was 
21. Although it was produced in an unknown 
musical, A1 Jolson heard it and added it to his 
Sinbad. Since then Gershwin produced 
pieces such as the famous Rhapsody in 
Blue. In 1935, Gershwin produced Porgy 
and Bess where he succeeded in making an 
authentic American opera. Tragically, George 
Gershwin died of a brain tumor at the age of 38. 
His music, however, continues to enthrall and 
delight audiences of all ages. At the Gersh
win Gala, this was certainly true.
The event drew an enormous crowd with 
high expectations because of the knowledge
able reputation of the Mendelssohn Choir and 
George Gershwins music. The night started 
out with the dynamic and powerful song 
Love Walked In (Goldwyn Follies)/StairIn The Curse, Cyrus gives a new meaning to
VOURING FORCE FROM OUTER 
SPACE. You know what Im talking about. 
Theyre the strongest beings on the face of 
the planet: the investigators for the Tennes
see Valley Authority.
Greatest movie ever made in Tellico 
Plains, Tenn.
No breasts. Five dead bodies. Backyard 
aardvarking. Two fireballs. Barbed wire in 
hiney. Rabid children attack. Hand sewing. 
Bleeding cow udders. Mad dog face eating. 
Green drool. Great rip-off Poltergeist 
effects. A 64 on the Vomit Meter. Gratui
tous scripture quotations. Gratuitous Hee 
Haw. Gratuitous cabbage-head gopher guts. 
Tennessee Val Fu. Bloody Tomato Fu.
Maggot Fu. Wart Fu. Baseball Bat Fu. Axe 
Fu. Pitchfork Fu. Stew Fu. Drive-In Acadthe term scab football player.
emy Award nominations for Claude Akins, 
for telling his wife, Frances, you turned all 
nasty and ugly. Almost overnightI dont 
even hardly recognize you; Hope North, as 
the greedy wife of the suspicious doctor, for 
oiling up her body, putting on spiked heels, 
and saying, We dont wanna go around 
fixing things that aint broke; Malcom 
Danare, as the evil fat boy brother, for 
throwing child star Wil Wheaton into a 
manure pile; Steve Carlisle, as the sleaziest 
salesman since Nixon, whos worried about 
land values and says, That thang aint 
radioactivepeoples ears aint gonna start 
falling off; Kathleen Jordan Gregory, as the 
mama, for slowly turning into a large 
intestine on camera.
Three stars. Joe Bob says check it out.
way to Paradise (George White Scandals of 
1922). Following the arousing opening num
ber, the choirs quartet sung Bidin My 
Time (from Girl Crazy). The number was a 
comical, playful tune that the four sang ex
pressively with a practiced ease.
As the evening progressed, the choir dis
played its great ability to blend together into a 
vibrant, unified voice. Such songs as the 
touching Embraceable You, I Got 
Rhythm which the audience spontaneously 
clapped along with, and Someone to Watch 
Over Me captured the audience. The second 
part of the show consisted of selections from 
Porgy and Bess where an impressive per
formance was given by Paul Cameron and 
Charlotte Sonne in Bess, You Is My Woman 
Now.
The evenings event ended with the same 
powerful impression that the first perform
ances gave. The show ended with an encore 
performance of O Lawd, Im On My Way  
superbly sung by Thom Douglas and the cho
rus.
An important element to the success of the 
show was the combo group. The group in
cluded: Lois L. Streator, the pianist who did an 
incredible Rialto Ripples (from A Rag), 
Jeffrey Mangone on the string bass, and Jack 
Dilanni on the percussion.
A concert by the Carnegie Mellon Choirs 
with Organ and Brass Ensemble 
Donald Wilkins, Director
Saturday. 
October 31.
1987 
8:00 p.m.
Main Hall,
XT J. FOR ACATHEDRALSPACE
Diversions Staff Meeting
Tonight at 8:00 pm 
Tartan Office

---------------------------------------------------

Page DIOThe TartanOctober 27,1987
Events
Tesday
Md / Movies
Julius Caesar, starring Marlon Brando, John 
Gielgud, James Mason, Louis Calhem and 
Deborah Kerr. Excellent film adaptation of 
Shakespeares study of power and honor. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:40 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Department of Architecture Lecture. Si
mon Ungers, Architect/Artist, New York, 
speaks at 8:30 pm in WeH 7500. 
Metallurgical Engineering and Materials 
Science Seminar. Dr. Leonard C. Feldman, 
AT&T Bell Laboratories, NJ, speaks on 
Structure and Stability of Epitaxial Films at
3 pm in WeH 7500. Informal discussions and 
refreshmenis follow in WeH 2325. 
Department of Chemical Engineering 
Seminar. Professor Anthony J. McHugh, 
University of Illinois, speaks on Thermody
namics and Mass Transfer Aspects of Polymer 
Membrane Formation at 11 am in DH 1112. 
Coffee and pastries served at 10:45 in Confer
ence Room 1102.
Special Events
French Table. The Modem Languages De
partment sponsors a French Language table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
Harold Lloyd Films. Speedy, starring Babe 
Ruth. Lloyd tries to save a horse-drawn trolley 
from extinction. Safety Last. Lloyd climbs a 
building, hangs from a clock in this great 
classic. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Tampopo. The Japanese have always had a 
knack for transforming the acts of daily living
- flower arranging, serving tea or even folding 
paper - into arts of unparalleled rigor and 
refinement. It is hardly suprising in this light 
that, long before Americans wolfed down 
Whoppers, the Japanese had perfected the art 
of fast food and raised one of its staples, 
noodles, to a high degree of culinary sophisti
cation. Noodles might seem an insubstantial 
subject for a feature film but from this unlikely 
point of departure, director Itami has fash
ioned a capricious, original and winningly 
wacky work. Tampopo is as fascinating as it 
is funny and succeeds as few films do in 
negotiating a happy alliance between enlight
enment and entertainment. It is a story of 
human kindness and generosity that - for all of 
its inspired comedy and eccentric characters, 
its elements of pastiche and parody - succeeds 
in eliciting a well-earned tear. Filmmakers at 
the Fulton, 205 Oakland Avenue. For showing 
time call 681-5449. Admission $3.
Die Standarte, sponsored by Modem Lan
guage Department. Film is in German with 
printed English sub-titles. Gregg Hall at 7 pm. 
Admission free.
Lectures
Shelters for the Homeless. A presentation of 
Architectural Proposals sponsored by the 
Department of Architecture and the Pittsburgh 
Chapter of American Institute of Architects. 
Presentation to be followed by discussion; at 
4:30 pm in DH 1212.
Special Events
Educational Action on Latin America 
group meeting. Skibo Rm. 112 at 7 pm. All
are welcome. For more information call Peter 
at x7651.
American Society of Mechanical Engineers 
General Meeting. SH 225. For more 
information call John Matz, x4287.
Spanish Table. The Modem Language De
partment sponsors a Spanish Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
Thursday
md ^ Movies
Lust for Life, starring Kirk Douglas and 
Anthony Quinn (Oscar). Excellent adaptation 
of Irving Stones biography of Van Gogh. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:40 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
The Exorcist, sponsored by AB Films. DH 
2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm and 10 pm. Admission $ 1.
Lectures
Materials Science and Engineering Semi
nar. Professor Erland M. Schulson, Professor 
of Engineering, Thayer School of Engineer
ing, Dartmouth College, speaks on The Flow 
and Fracture of Ni3 Al at 11 am in the Kresge 
Conference Room, 1175 Benedum Hall. 
Coffee and donuts are served at 10:30 am 
before the presentation.
Department of Psychology Colloquium. 
Dr. Michael Posner, University of Washing
ton, speaks on Brain Mechanisms of Lexical 
Access at 4 pm in the Adamson Wing, BH. 
Coffee is served before the lecture in the Psy
chology Lounge, BH 336-D.
Special Events
German Table. The Modem Languages 
Department sponsors a German Language 
Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining 
hall.
Friday
\/ Movies
The Witches of Eastwick, starring Jack 
Nicholson, Susan Sarandon, Cher and Mich
elle Pfeiffer. Evil doings in the quiet New 
England town of Eastwick, as Jack Nicholson 
(in a wild performance as the Devil) seduces 
three women. Some funny scenes. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:40 pm and 11:50 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
The Morning After, sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 11 pm and midnight. 
Admission $1.
'-fl Saturday
M Movies
The Untouchables, starring Kevin Costner, 
Robert De Niro and Sean Connery. A compel
ling film about Eliot Ness, as Treasury officer, 
and his struggle to topple gangster Al Capone. 
De Niro steals the film as Capone. Connery is 
excellent. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 
9:40 pm and 11:50 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Nightmare on Elm Street III, sponsored by 
SDC Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm 
and midnight. Admission $1.
Sports
Football. Home game against Washington & 
Jefferson College, 1:30 pm.
1 Sunday
Movies
Mutiny on the Bounty, starring Clark Gable, 
Charles Laughton and Franchot Tone. The 
classic film re-telling of the mutiny at sea 
against Captain Bligh. Oscar for Best Picture. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:45 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Creature form the Black Lagoon, in 3-D, 
sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 
pm, 10 pm and midnight. Admission $1.
2 Monday
Movies
The Boy Friend, starring Twiggy, Christo
pher Gable, Max Adrian and Tommy Tune. 
Good film adaptation of Sandy Wilsons de
lightful musical spoof of Hollywood musicals. 
This is the uncut version of the original film. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:50 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Special Events
Japanese Table. The Modem Language 
Department sponsors a Japanese Language 
Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining 
hall.
If you wish to place an announcement, miscella
neous item, or event in The Tartan, send it to 
Campus Calendar / University Relations / 
Carnegie Mellon University / Pittsburgh, PA 
15213. Send it by campus mail to the above 
address or drop it off at 5017 Forbes Ave (The
house between AY and ATQ).
Please include the following information when 
submitting events: Title of event, sponsor, brief 
description, location, date, and time. In addition, 
include the name and phone number of the 
person submitting the entry; this information will 
be used only to confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the accuracy 
or validity of any Event listing. In addition, it 
reserves the right to edit or omit any listing for 
publication.
Deadline for Calendar submissions is Wednes
day at 5 pm for the next weeks issue.
A Positive Point 
About Breast Cancer.
Now we can see it before you can feel it. When its no bigger than the dot on this page.
And when its 90% curable. With the best chance of saving the breast.
The trick is catching it early. And thats exactly what a mammogram can do.
A mammogram is a simple x-ray thats simply the best news yet for detecting breast cancer. And saving lives.
If you re over 35, ask your doctor about mammography.
GbmE ThysgEwa t,E p,copE ha c wbaEtbAE:
I AMERICAN CANCER SOOETY*t
Everybody's Doin It!!!
submit yourself to Vox Populi  say anything 
you want to anyone at all for absolutely nothing!!
Vox Populi: Get yours today...
submissions should be addressed to 
Vox Populi 
c/o The Tartan 
Skibo Information Desk
FREE ENTERTAINMENT!!! Go see the Junior Rep plays... 
Mon, Tues, &Weds 
for the next 4 weeks 
at the Studio Theatre
CLOTHING MEN AND YOUNG MEN SINCE 1960
London Dock
Where you'll always find the latest 
collections from Girbaud, Edwin, Jimmy 'Z, 
Polo, Alexander Julian, and Gotcha.
5842 Forbes Avenue Fox Chapel Plaza
Squirrel Hill Freeport & Fox Chapel Roads
421-5710 781-0811

---------------------------------------------------

Baby BlueWhat are your plans 
for the summer of 91 ?
I LOVE YOU.
-Froggie
...It seems to me I could live 
my life a lot better than 
I think I am.
Guess thats why they call me:
Call me the working man.
BEAK is (not).
CC & BCP: 
ma grande cachon,
Co chon ca chonk.
Ca chon ca chonk?
-LFP
Tom,
Thanks for helping me. You 
dont understand how much 
it was appreciated. No matter what, I 
hope we can always be friends.
Love always,
Angie
JoGood luck with your dramatic persuits.
PUNCH AMISH!
It wasnt bad enough that God 
gave women menstruation, 
but then she gave em men.
MomYou're a grandmother.
-Marta
DadGet Mom an aspirin.
-Marta
PhilMilk goes in the frig, 
not on the bookshelf.
Debbie,
you need to brighten up your disposi
tion. Life isnt really as bad as it seems. 
-SB
BeckyI know what you REALLY 
want for your birthday...
-Dan
O-TAm I your winter love kitten?
MartyWas that an EARTHQUAKE in 
Marybelle last weekend, or...
TOM THE GRAD FROM THE 
PERSONALSYou sound like my kind of guy. Drop me 
a message on the personals bboard 
(ANDREW).
All women are Evil.
Hey Sharon!! 
snicker ... snicker ... snicker
I got a heart full of SOUL.
TonyAnother slumber party this weekend. 
Bring your Oreos.
Chops,
I had the time of my life...
- Toad
SteveThank you again.
Youre sweet.
-TTFN
Christopher RobinIn need of backrubs lately? I could 
be convinced to make a library 
call. It only takes a smile!
W inniethePooh
Susan ParkoffNo message, just wanted to embarrass 
you.
Many thanks to the Wednesday More
wood small group. Thanks for being 
there for me, and for 
putting up with me.
CecilGet your ass in gear.
Love, the Art Dept.
Im physically exhausted,
Mentally drained,
My morals are shot to hell,
And it rains all the time.
Ill bet my cat died, too.
October 27,1987The TartanPage Dll
Announcements
Richard M. Cyert will have open office hours 
for students between 2:30 pm and 5 pm, in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Wednesday, No
vember 9. Students who wish to meet with the 
president should telephone his secretary at 
268-2200 to set up an appointment.
Student Ombudsman will have open office 
hours for students to discuss concerns and help 
resolve problems. Days and times available 
for appointments are at the Skibo Information 
desk @x2170 between 9 am5 pm.
On the Line: The New Color Photojourna
lism. An exhibition of color photographs 
organized by the Walker Art Center in Min
neapolis. Through November 8. Carnegie 
Mellon Art Gallery, 407 South Craig Street. 
Gallery Hours are 10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday 
through Friday; 11 am - 5 pm, Saturday; 1 pm
- 4 pm, Sunday.
Drawings from the Eighties. As part of the 
citywide Chatsworth Collaboration of draw
ing exhibitions, the Carnegie Mellon Art Gal
lery features contemporary works on paper. 
Through November 8. Gallery Hours are 10 
am - 5 pm, Tuesday through Fnrtay; 11 am - 5 
pm, Saturday; 1 pm -4 pm, Siitdiy.
Six Artists: Two and Three Dimensions. 
An exhibition on the interrelationships of the 
drawings and three-dimensional work of 
Mary Bero, Dale Chihuly, Anne Currier, 
Christine Federighi, Peter Gourfain and Mark 
Kobasz. Through November 8. The Society 
for the Art in Crafts; 21st and Smallman 
Streets, the Strip District. Gallery Hours are: 
10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday through Saturday; 1 pm
- 4 pm, Sunday.
Roman Catholic Oratory. Celebrate mass 
on campus at 7 pm, Saturday night and 10:30 
am, Sunday morning, in the GSIA Audito
rium. Daily Mass is celebrated at 12:30 pm, 
Monday through Friday, in CMs Chapel 
(Skibo Rm. 39). For more information call 
681-3181.
Attention Catholic Singles!!! Are you look
ing to be part o*". a group that has a little bit of 
everything for your activities, social, reli
gious, sports, community service, etc. If you 
would like an organization that has all these 
qualities, plus being with people that share 
your own ideas, educational and employment 
background, and other interests, call the 
Cathchc Alumni Club of Pittsburgh at 341- 
4070 or 461-2247.
The Cardinal Wrigilt Oratory Choir is
looking for young men and wornei to sing at 
the Solemn Liturgies celebrated in Heinz 
Chapel at noon each Sunday. Rehearsals are 8 
pm on Thursday evenings at The Oratory, 
4040 Bigelow Boulevard. For more informa
tion call 655-2169.
Is There Anyone Else Like Me On Campus?
If you are dealing wkh attractions toward 
members of the same sex, the answer is yes. 
Join sympathetic peers for informal discus
sions of issues that are important to you. For 
details, contact the CMU Gay and Lesbian 
Alliance via campus mail c/o Skibo Informa
tion Desk or via computer mail to ga0y@tb. 
All responses are confidential.
Interested in communications? Like to hear 
yourself talk? Broadcasting positions are 
available for WRCT News. Call x2883 for 
more information.
Buhl Science Center.
Laserium. 8 pm and 9:15 pm, Thursday 
through Sunday; and 3 pm, Saturday. For 
current concerts call 321-5554.
Murder in the Planetarium. Friday, Octo
ber 30. Call 321-4302 for information.
First Light. 2 pm, Monday through Thurs
day; 2 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Friday; 11 am, 2 pm, 4 
pm, Saturday; and 2 pm, 4 pm, Sunday.
Introduction to the Planetarium. 3 pm, 
Saturday; 1:15 pm, Sunday.
Sounds Sensational. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 
1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
?k*'Right.Jfowc Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 
1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
Batter Up. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm
- 5 pm, Sunday.
Color. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, 
Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, 
Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm - 5 
pm, Sunday.
Bio Corner. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm
- 5 pm, Sunday.
Image Imagination. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 
1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
Foucault Pendulum. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm. Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 
1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
Observatory. Friday evenings, weather 
permitting.
Pittsburgh Playhouse Jr. Theatre. The
Ghost of Mr. Penny. Mr. Penny has disappeared-and for ten years his secret has been 
hidden in his haunted" house. Four adventur
ous children and an amiable but shrewd hobo 
join forces to explore the old Penny 
mansion...and .solve the mystery! 11 am, 2:30 
pm, Saturday; 2:30 pm, Sunday. Through 
November 8. For ticket information call 621 - 
4445.
Classifieds
Waitress: Sichuan House on Murray Avenue in 
Squirrel Hill. Apply in person ASAP. Good tips.
Jh:g/fcotEr
YhygboL
Earn $hundreds weekly$ in your spare time. 
United Services of America is looking for 
homeworkers to perform mail services. Incen
tive programs available. For information send 
large self addressed stamped envelope to 
U.S.A., 24307 Magic Mtn. Pkwy., Suite #306, 
Valencia, CA 91355.
STUDENT EMPLOYMENT OFFICE Fi
nancial Aid department in Warner Hall, x2068. 
Still many jobs available (approx 50) for workstudy and non work-study students ranging 
from entry level clerical or dining services to 
programming and research work, pick up a 
directory or have your name added to al= list for 
hiring depts to view. Assistance interviews 
scheduled upon request
PART TIME-HOME MAILING PRO
GRAM! Excellent income! Details, send selfaddressed, stamped envelope. WEST, Box 
5877, Hillside, NJ 07205.
Walk to Campus! Recently remodeled, 2 BR fur
nished apt. $380 + utilities. No pets. Immediately. 
Call 655-1972.
FOR SALE BY OWNER: Sq. Hill, at edge of 
Schenley Park. Beautiful, modem, spacious 3BR, 2 
Bath, central A/C., fully carpeted, outstanding 
closet space, 2 porches, basement laundry, integral 
2-car garage, garden, carriage house. Phone 521- 
0179.
kbgE
Parties...Parties...Parties
We have everything for your party at Papermart - 
One stop party shopping. Halloween, X-mas, New 
Years, and much more. Over 10,000 square feet of 
party. Party favors, decorations, and a wide variety 
of novelties. Close to campus - Morewood Avenue 
at Baum. 681-8900.
RESEARCH PAPERS. 15,278 Available! Cata
log $2.00. Research, 11322 Idaho, #206XT, Los
Angeles 90025. Toll Free (800)351-0222, Ext 33. 
Visa/MC or COD.
Good Softwares Celebrity Word Processor 
Plus for IBM P.C. & compatibles. $69.95 Call 
Danny Wright 521 -5718. Dictionary, Appointment 
Calendar, more.
FEMALE SMOKERlearn more about your 
bodys responses to stress and smoking, and earn 
$20 in a two-hour session. Blood samples taken. For 
info, call Female Smokers Study521-4647.
SAINT ELMOS BOOKS & MUSIC 
Pittsburghs alternative bookstore invites you to 
browse our fine collection of Electronic, Minimal
ist, Electro-acoustic, New Jazz, World Fusion, the 
ECM Sound, or New Age Music. Tapes & CDs. 
2214 E. Carson Street, just over the Birmingham 
Bridge. Southside. Open til 9 nightly. 431-9100. 
Expect the unusual.
FREE CAT. Four month old black cat needs home. 
Cuddlesome and is litter trained. Call 421-2928.
NEED A CAR? New or used, w/ or w/o accesso
ries. Call Peggy Eshelman, 578-8444.
NEsmbpEg
Typing/Writing Services - Term papers, disser
tations, thesis, resumes. Spelling & grammar in
cluded. Lillian Mudgett - North Hills - 486-8577.
MTS 24-hour Typing/Word Processing (Special
izes in last minute work) Same day Resume serv
ice. Typewriter rental available short/long term 
leases. 371-3657.
WORD PROCESSING SERVICES. Typing 
completed to vour specifications. Call for more 
info: Before 3:00 pm Sandie 673-8870 or Sharon 
373-2287.
TYPING. Manuscripts, thesis, resumes, etc. pro
fessional quality. Pick up and delivery available, 
call Chris 681-5292.
TscmEw
FREETrip to daytona + commission money. 
Going to Florida? Go for free, take advantage of 
promoting the #1 Spring Break trip. If intersted, 
call DESIGNERS OF TRAVEL, 1-800-453- 
9074, immediately.
T WTCH>*

---------------------------------------------------

THE 
HUMAN 
SIDEPART 3
MAKING IT SAFE 
(Sexuality)NOVEMBER
HUMAN SEXUALITY WORKSHOP..............................November 2 - 7:00p.m., Mudge Lounge
LUNCHTIME SERIES: Healthful Mondays.................. .November 2, 9, 16, 23 - 11:45-12:30, Rm. 13 Skibo
S.S.S. (Safe Sex Symposium)..............Carnegie Care Unit, November 5 - 6:30-8:00p.m., Rm. 7500 Wean Hall
BODY IMAGE: SELF IMAGE................................November 5  7:00 p.m., Donner Reading Rm.
SEXUALITY SERIES
SEX BOWL CHALLENGE.................................................................................November 10 - 7:30 p.m., Morewood Ree. Rm.
SEX, DRUGS, ROCK N ROLL: YOUR RIGHTS.................Prof. Alieva November 11 - 7:30 p.m, Morewood Ree. Rm.
RELATIONSHIPS: THE REAL THING.................................. .Dr. Rabin November 11 - 8:00 p.m., Morewood Ree. Rm.
SEX BOWL CHALLENGE FINALS....................................................................November 12 - 7:30 p.m., Morewood Ree. Rm.
CARNAL KNOWLEDGE: MOVIE...................................November 11 - 8:00p.m., Doherty Hall 2210
HUMAN SEXUALITY FORUM.........................................November 16 - 7:00, 630 Clyde St. Apt.
LA CAGE AUX FOLLES: MOVIE.....................................November 18 - 8:00 p.m., Doherty Hall 2210
A.l.D.S. UPDATE................................................November 23 - 11:45-12:30, Rm. 13 Skibo
NEXT MONTHS THEME: MAKING IT RIGHT (Ethics)
Programs presented by Housing, Carnegie Care Unit and Division of Student Affairs 
Calendar Produced by Division of Student Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

"Each one must arrange
bis mask as best be canbis outer mask.
For inside of it there is
an inner mask, wbicb
\
often fails to square with
the outer.
And nothing is true!
Pirandello. L' umorismo

---------------------------------------------------

/. / r /:' R A T I R lidossier
> DESIGN
Volume 9 Number 1 October 27, 1987
CREDITS
Literary Editor Michele Osherow 
Design Editor Rick Simner 
Typesetting Brian Harrison
CONTENTS
Arlechino Quote designed by Richard Klein
Coverings by Brad Mehlenbacher 
Designed by Beth Novitsky
Oscar Wilde Quote designed by Sanford Greene
The Naked Self by Beth Cox
Designed by Deborah Singer
The Excavation by Diane Echlin 
Designed by Geoff Kaplan
Thinking Like a Working Man by Lorenzo de Guttadauro 
Designed by Maria Carluccio
Volcano Aid on Tape by Bruce L. Stewart 
Designed by Debbie Tierno
Summer Fruit by David Yezzi
Designed by Christopher Pacione
/
SUBMISSIONS
Dossier welcomes submissions from any student 
enrolled at Carnegie Mellon. All manuscripts must be 
typed or on a macintosh disk. Please include your
name, address, and phone number. Due to plagiarism *
laws, anonymous literature or literature under 
pseudonyms cannot be accepted.
Submissions may be sent through campus mail to 
Dossier, c/o The Tartan, 103 Skibo, or dropped off at 
the Tartan office, Skibo room 50.
1

---------------------------------------------------

" Youll
never
know
Arlechino $3

---------------------------------------------------

coverings
vi V.  ' / - ~  1 ~ t '  ,, ... .
she is wearing sunglasses and I can see my face where her eyes 
should be. poetic.
I am lighting a match, slowly. I look too closely at the 
flame I'm holding, and she knows that.
her eyes are the color of cigarette ash and she uses more 
vowels than consonants, desire.
the cafe, crowded tables with plastic coverings, is along an 
alley that we walk through (sometimes alone) on Sundays and 
holidays.
we have passed longing to know, and while I see her still when 
I close my eyes, I've lost the need for detail, hollow.
Brad Mehlenbacher

---------------------------------------------------

Qj<>
0?
OscarWilde

---------------------------------------------------

itr1 5
The 
Naked 
Self
The front door slammed five times. Vi 
sat down on a stool at the kitchen counter 
relieved because she was alone. The kitchen 
was a mess. Four bowls had been set on the 
table hours earlier, all of them dirty with 
soggy Froot Loops. She picked up the bowls 
and a plate with dried egg on it, and placed 
them in the left hand side of the double sink. 
Dirty glasses lined the length of the counter. 
She was unwilling to put effort into cleaning, 
and grabbed for her pack of cigarettes. It was 
empty. She looked around the room, and in 
the cabinet next to the kitchen table she 
caught a glimpse of the corner of an open 
carton. She remembered that her husband 
took the last pack from that carton when he 
left. "Damn! Now I have to go out and buy 
more. I can't believe this. It's just not going to 
be my year. I know it..."
Vi, angry and disappointed, reached 
for her purse. She began fumbling for the car 
keys and the contents of her purse fell onto 
the floor. "I knew it... It's NOT going to be 
my year..." She bent down and quickly 
picked up what she needed: her wallet, car 
keys, and lipstick. She stood up and 
pondered cleaning up the large pile of junk 
that remained at her feet. "Everything else 
is just going to have to wait until I get my 
cigarettes." She threw the three items into 
her empty purse and walked toward the door 
so haphazardly that she bumped into the
refrigerator. All of the little fruit magnets 
were knocked off, sending messages flying 
around the room. In every direction another 
message for her.
On the kithcen table, "MomWon't be 
home tonight, Missy's having a big jam 
Love, Toni". Toni didn't come home for two 
days after that one. It was a bigger 
graduation party than anyone had expected. 
On the faucet of the sink, "Mommy what's for 
diner? Brian". Brian's note had been on the 
refrigerator since his first day of school. Vi 
had cooked his favorite dish that night: 
meatloaf, au gratin potatoes and applesauce. 
The one on the stool said, "MomCan I sleep 
over John's tonight? I promise I'll clean my 
room tomorrowLove, Steve". Vi ended up 
cleaning his room that week. Yet another on 
the phone announced, "Vi, I'll be late for 
dinner tonight, don't worry I'll just 
microwave something for myself. vHope 
you're feeling better todayMark" That was 
three weeks ago, and there was still no 
telling how she felt; but on her pile of junk in 
the middle of the room, the last one caught 
her attention, "MOMII LUV U! LUV 
KATI".
"I want a cigarette."
Vi ignored the huge mess in the middle 
of the room. She hurried out the front door. 
She slammed the door with all of her 
mightthe fifth slamand started for the 
car. She was out of breath by the time she got 
in the car at the end of the long driveway.
She stuck the keys in the ignition, looked up 
at her large split-level house, and noticed 
how overbearing it appeared . The large oak 
door seemed to be the size of the one she had 
seen in a documentary last week about 
medieval castles. She had left the door 
unlocked.
Many women were walking in the 
vicinity of the grocery store. "It had to be 
today that all of the old ladies needed to go 
shopping, me and all the other OLD wives." 
She had to park three blocks away just to buy 
those cigarettes. Vi walked towards the 
grocery store.
She passed the small boutique and 
stared in through the window. Every time 
she went to the grocery, she stopped to 
admire their selection, especially a red and 
black satin jumpsuit. She had never gone in, 
and this time was no different. She continued 
walking up the street.
She lit a cigarette on her way back to 
the car. But this time, when she stopped to 
look into the boutique, she decided to go 
inside. She eased open the door and heard 
the small door bells announce her entrance to 
all of the salesgirls.
"May I help you?"
"No, thank you, I'm just looking."
"I think we might have something that 
would suit you just fine over here."
"Actually, I was thinking more on the 
lines of this." In her hands, she held the 
jumpsuit.
The suit would make her look so sexy, 
so young. Yes, she was going to try it on. But 
she still had to clean up the mess in the 
kitchen before anyone got home. She ran her 
fingers over the black brocade which 
emphasized the drastic neckline. Mark 
always loved satin, and red was his favorite 
color. The mess would wait...
"Do you think I'm too old to wear 
something like this?"
"Well, uh, no, not at all. Many women, 
such as yourself, have bought that particular 
jumpsuit..."
"Many women such as yourself"... 
which means older women have tried it on, 
and looked like they were trying to be twenty 
again... foolish women like Vi. She grabbed 
the jumpsuit and a few other outfits before 
she followed the girl to the dressing room.
To the salesgirl, she said, "Thank you," 
and thought, "for nothing."
As soon as she closed the door to the 
stall, Vi caught a glimpse of herself in one of 
the three mirrors. "Is that really a forty 
year-old woman?"
She began to take off her cotton 
sweater, still watching herself in the mirror. 
Alright, so what? She was forty. But what 
did she have to show for it? When did she 
get these wrinkles? She leaned closer to the 
mirror. There really aren't that many lines, 
especially after all that she's had to put up 
with... A person deserves to have a few age 
lines after being married nineteen years, 
right? God! She had loved him so much 
when she was in college. He was always 
there for her. He had understood her so well. 
That's part of the reason why she married 
him. That and because he was sexy. "What 
am I thinking of? I have to get home and 
clean up.". In the pile she had left was that 
horrid card, "...Happy Birthday!...How Old 
Are You This Year?... Twenty-nine, Again?... 
Happy Birthday, Anyway!" "Screw all of 
them! They're all as old as I am, if not 
older!"
She hated the surprise party that her 
loving husband threw for her last night. 
Although Mark had tried so hard to cheer 
her with this party, Vi hadn't wanted 
anyone to know her real age. And now, 
everyone knew. Her neighbors. Her friends 
at the office. Her relatives that she hadn't 
seen in years. People that had only suspected 
her age were now well informed .
EVERYONE knew. There were forty-one 
candles on the sheet cake. One, of course, for 
good luck. And everyone was asking her how 
she felt now that she was finally forty.

---------------------------------------------------

"Great!" was her standard reply, followed by 
her standard swig of champagne.
"Ma'am? How's it going? Can I help 
you with anything?"
"No, thank you."
Did Mark think she was still sexy? Or 
was she too old to look at now? Too 
overweight. Too wrinkled...
She slipped off the sequined shirt she 
had just tried on and attempted to yank off 
the black velvet skirt. The hook was stuck. 
"You are getting too fatwhy won't this 
stupid thing unhook!" Finally, she ripped 
the threads on the hook and unzipped it. She 
deliberately, yet carefully, stepped out of 
the skirt so as not to rip it any further. The 
next outfit she tried on was like a second skin. 
It showed every curve in her body.
She flattened her abdomen. She wasn't 
really that fat, huh? Nothing that couldn't 
have been helped after having four kids.
The kids. She hoped they didn't suspect 
what she was going through. They always 
get so uptight when she's upset. They seem to 
get this notion that she's going through 
menopause whenever she sheds a tear... "I 
hope they don't go through the pile I left on 
the floor" There were so many embarrassing 
pictures of the kids in her purseif Toni sees 
the picture of herself she'll tear it up!
Thirteen years ago, Vi had taken Toni 
to the elementary school to meet her 
kindergarten teacher for the first time.
While Vi was talking with the teacher, 
somehow Toni managed to get herself tangled
with a fire-extinguisher in the hall outside 
the principal's office. The teacher, a friend 
of Vi's, grabbed a camera and snapped a 
picture of Toni crying and covered in fire 
resistent dust. She turned back and said, " I 
can forsee an interesting two years..." Sure, 
for the teacher it was two years, but for Vi, 
Toni was a lifetime.
"Ma'am? Is everything okay? Can I 
take anything back for you?"
"Yes, take these." She handed her 
everything except the jumpsuit.
"Would you like me to take the 
jumpsuit back also?"
Vi stared at it. Black sequins enhanced 
the hip area. "No, that's alright. I haven't 
tried it on yet."
"Can I get you anything else?"
"As a matter of fact, yes..." The 
salesgirl returned with three more outfits.
Vi took a long hard look at herself in 
the mirror as she slowly removed each arm 
from the sleeves of a silk blouse. She felt so 
vulnerable standing there, barely clothed. 
Maybe they have two way mirrors in this 
place. If so, they are certainly not going to 
get the show of their lives. Well, then 
again, Mark doesn't seem to mind her sagging, 
or does he? He's not exactly in the best shape 
he's ever been in either
She took a closer look in the mirror, and 
ran her fingers through her hair. Jesus! All 
those gray hairs; she better start buying hair 
dye stuff, the good kind..."'Sure, Preference 
by L'Oreal costs a little more. But I'm worth 
it!'" She laughed at herself for knowing 
lines from commercials. When did she have 
enough time to learn this stuff? What with 
the kids, Mark, and the office... the office. 
Did the guys at the office think she's over 
the hill now? God! She had to get home! If 
Mark sees the note that Gary wrote her, he'll 
flip! Especially if she's not there to 
explain...
Friday morning, just as every morning, 
Vi had walked into the office and asked 
Gary, her secretary, if she had gotten any 
messages. He handed her the messages, and 
Vi sat down at her desk to read them. Half
way through the stack, there was a message 
that read, "You are so sexy, so beautiful, so 
young. Love, Your Secret Admirer". She 
looked up and Gary was standing in her 
doorway with a dozen roses and a card that 
said, "Happy Birthday, Boss Lady". Gary 
and Vi have always joked about getting old, 
so she thanked Gary when she was leaving 
and put the message in her purse. Now it was 
lying on the kitchen floor.
"Ma'am? Are you alright in there?"
The salesgirl interrupted her train of 
thought, "Can I get you another size? How do 
they fit? We're closing in twenty minutes, so 
if you could make a decision soon..."
"No! No, that's okay, everything fits 
fine, I'll be out in a couple minutes."
"Are you sure, ma'am?"
"Positive." The salesgirl walked 
away. Vi dug into her purse for a cigarette 
and lighter. Thank God her lighter was in 
the zippered compartment of her purse when 
it dumped out this morning! She became 
glued to her reflection as she put the 
cigarette in her mouth, concentrating on how 
her lips molded around the tubular stick. She 
stared at herself and wondered if she could 
have ever been an actress like Bette Davis. 
Lighter in hand, she flicked her thumb on the 
stone and quickly pressed the fire red button 
that read Bic. She carefully cupped her 
hands around the flame, protecting it from 
the draft coming from the vent above her.
The warmth felt familiar.
She inhaled long and took the cigarette 
out of her mouth with the second and third 
fingers of her right hand. In the reflection of 
the mirror, she saw the orange, red, and 
grayish black glow. She followed the trail 
of the ashes, and noticed the nicotine stains 
on two of her fingers. Did she leave the 
doctor's appointment slip for the blood test in 
her purse? Which obviously means that now 
it's there for everyone to see... But so what if 
she wants to get a blood test every three 
months, right? There's nothing wrong with 
her wanting to stay healthy...
She exhaled hard after holding her 
breath for a few seconds. The smoke streamed 
from her mouth in a very orderly fashion and 
then became mixed with the air, making 
intricate designs before vanishing. She 
didn't ash the half embered cigarette.
Finally, the ash fell in perfect formation onto 
the carpet, without her even noticing.
"You can't smoke in here, Ma'am."
Vi, startled by the girl's voice, 
managed to say, "Excuse me?"
"I'm sorry ma'am, but there is no smoking 
in this store. You'll have to put out the 
cigarette. And we're closing in ten minutes."
"Yes, of course, I'm sorry..." her voice 
trailed off. She held the cigarette butt with 
her fingertips and bent to press it into the 
carpet. She stopped abruptly and inhaled 
the relaxing smoke once more. The satin 
jumpsuit was still on the hanger and her 
cotton sweater and slacks were piled on the 
floor, she snickered to herself. She really 
should get home to clean up, but hey, she 
came in to try this on!
She took a last drag and kneeled to the 
floor, slowly pressing fhe cigarette into the 
already burned carpet. The formation of the 
ashes and most of the glowing embers 
disappeared. She pressed the butt so hard 
that the leftover filter bent. Maybe she 
doesn't want to be like all the rest of the 
women who tried this on. "Forty's nothing... 
Wait until fifty!" Smoke still trailed up 
from the carpet. Meticulously, she pressed 
the butt on all of the red glowing spots.
"Ma'am? The register is about to close. 
Can I take anything up for you?"
Vi swung the untouched jumpsuit to the 
salesgirl, "No, thankyou."
The smoke from the carpet ceased.
Beth Cox

---------------------------------------------------

 v 'O.v--. %'.:r 'vV. "* ' >  ro >  ' /> -: -v;>:  .
. . i'jfjff*  -- ? :*. ' - , ^ .**.. >'---  , ;*-uh'-' *  '' " . i  ..
~ JL S . . - *' * f>-.kV iyK,^
aFg
..<. "V   <>**. * 
, ^ - 
>' *
<: ' . ^ . . '-v 
:" '' V - '-. vS^?. V; .-:'! v. c
 nl'Wk' i >V> ^
v / V  . - / r.i,v v f ^ * i . 'V. ^'S; *. Of-;'-- v A v. . '-:-A.y-Vv*. - ' >JL I f / I ; *>- ?'<** :.:V  V'*-.. -.i X?
f
:'v^ The Excavation
I hear a pick-ax hack away at the dry, dead earth. 
The brown, stratified ground gives way 
To the strength of technology.
..-jf1 '#?ct5 -> ? ;; t' A A 'i f ,.> ^';r ' 1,1 'M
irmf
*' * it o-,-v,v - **;- ^ ^ ^ :<: 4:^
P?:- . rfflT1';'--- .>'-v ;'.>;y ^'c>; -y.
It is obscene,
the contrast of the layered dirt in the forground 
a warm blanket,
a smooth, cool fecund young plain 
where the cows graze 
and the backdrop behind these beasts, 
two mountain ranges
the first brown-green and strong like the hands of men, 
the other gray, bald, round like a skull.
A skull . .
Perhaps one will be found.
Perhaps many.
Digging for fool's gold, 
these men with their brushes and pick-axes 
seek a window to the past: 
one they can look through, 
press their noses against, 
but never pass.
The sun pours down on them.
I smell their sweat.
It is the sun that fed me, 
dried my fields after heavy rain, 
pulled the flesh from my bones 
when I grew too old to plow.
Now it cast shadows of the men 
over the ground that is my grave 
a harbinger of how they, too, 
will lie beneath the Earth 
to be dug up again so others can learn.
Diane Echlin
; ' :\N
K S i^jj* Si.,i%y', /* i , /?,ijig ' - ; ' tfc.i Ori >. /  u>

---------------------------------------------------

Thinking Like A Working Man
who has money? '*?ror pockets with creases? '
I think - : v
as I put food ' \ ^ " ,*
into plastic and paper /' ; "  ;
and kiss ass . 
tremendous. . f 
this isn't the way to live; 
to make a living
following. rules V - . / }f -
that will never'change.
let's cry  .*
and scream ; . /   -
thinking of how things could be 
but never will - ' ; '
i   ' ; , *  ;.' , ' . ; ; 
I'lKjust keep bagging groceries 
tilt 1 die y ;: ; :  ,
arid my thoughts  v v 
will rest alongside me. 
,w -! .' y /  V ./ **';* *  V . 
/'cause even in bone . .
. astrophysics  .:\y .
even under earth '/ /, ./
Machiavellii . / >. ,f ' / !
and yes, even encase.d in pine 
I will create a Nobel prose 
what you could fiever imagine;
-and these thoughts 
will live alongside me. , : ' ;
Lorenzo de Guttadauro

---------------------------------------------------

s tj/ f',
mwm
WtfoM
Volcano Aid on tape
I have had my face in your lap again.
You feel so good.
You agree.
We are just friends.
You love this tape-David (linoiir and Pete Townshend 
-hes awesome, such a crusliand your earth tones are okay.
The sweater scratches the side of my face.
"Well I should go
soon." I hear inuinhled
above the sleepy
feeling I warm your 111111111 \
with. I hold titlit.
slide my arm on the cool side
of the pillow behind you
and you struggle
so slightly up.
No really."
I arch dopily
not sure what has happened 
my face isnt scratchy we re 
just friends my mouth isn't 
near your
legs feel so good we
are just friends you
are getting your tiny treetorns
It out the loot of the touch I
am ro king away onto
my haunches when I go to the door
to hug you for a long
time and then again
we will still
be friends.
pri'Jnr 
mwm 
W&F'*'
Wm 
w*mi
W'imm:
I try to kiss you any way 
but not maliciously.
Bruce L. Stewart

---------------------------------------------------

Summer Fruit
These last days of summer loose the tang of decay, 
the sugar-juice rising in the ripening pulp: 
a sweet passage into the next: a shrivling.
We walk together from the market, arms fullsacks of plumbs and apples in seasonand sit for an hour in Washington Square.
Across the bricks you see the days lining up, 
evenings to be held up and squeezed out 
sticky on the chin.
We are held together still, for a while, 
and it's warm here in this park, for a while, 
and the leaves have only begun to turn.
The last is implicit in the opening strains,
and from the street we hear both, as if they walked
beside us, turning the last comer for home.
Soon bruises will appear in the birtch boughs, 
shocks of red and taupe, seed-heavy, falling 
from the vine.
And we will turn from the world, then,
like the young wife, having pressed her squat thumbs
in the axis of a mellon now past season.
David Yezzi

---------------------------------------------------

861 L-Z
xn sjL^uCl
d<lLXq
dtunr
xdqopO
ddU**>3
paqsmnd
CO
wCO 
<
