KOUHATIOMS
STUDENT COONOILPEESIDEMT 
Tuesday : 11:30-12:30 APBIL 19
FINAL VOTE
CAMPUS WEEK QEEN 
NEBT WEDNESDAY APBIL 27
VOL. XXI NO. 29CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, APRIL 19, 1927
TITLE AND CAST 
0F8C.W.SH0W 
IS ANNOUNCED
Janneys "The Devils Den 
Is Selected and Ten Membere of Cast Are Chosen
AJVIYSTERY PLAY OF 
GREENWICH VILLAG
Eleanore Lewis, and Robert 
Pike . To Play Leading 
... Boles In Show.
The Campus Week show ha
teenThe KOU
a specially prepared 'mystery play by Sam Janney,- was finally accepted by the show committee and stops were immediately taken to cast tbe -play in order that the principles would have tfie greatest, possible amount of time to perfect their characters.
Chairman Walter Rogers.has announced the selection,of the following persons to play. "The Devils 
Den.  '
Eleanore Lewis, who played the leading female role In "Loose Ankles," last years Campus Week production, was chosen to carry
the :She isvery prominent Pittsburgh girl whose work In the Department of Drama has been truly fine. Miss 1 Lewis recently played the lead in The Dance, of Life, and has likewise been, active in the Btaglng of other Little Theater attractlone^- 
The male lead of "The Devil's Den is' to be played by Robert Pike,, who has likewise, been prominent In Drama Department work. He bos' been especially active this year having appeared in "The 
Passing of the Third Floor Back," "The Green Cockatoo and "Ths 
Black -Famli
Last week the Student Council, through the Tartan, asked the student body for suggestions in tfce way of  more sultuble name for Pa-Ma Day. It seemed evident to th Council that there Is a general 
n the campus against name given lo the anling day for students feeling
the. pnThree Contestants For Campus Queen
spiteobvl-ouely prevalent 
no suggestions for a more fitting title have yet been turned in to tbe Student Council. . This Is the last chance. If no suggestions are fOTtbccming after this issue, tbe Council will consider the matter closed and the name Pa-Ma Day
icil Office, 139 IndusSCREENTESTSTOBE 
MADE HERE APR. 29
Contest Being Conducted 
By First National and 
College Humor
LA ST, BALLOT FOR 
CAMPUS QUEEN TO 
BE CAST APRIL 27
i thet of la:Both he and Elean 
Lewis are' Sophomores - In 1 Drama Department
Tbe new p|y: contains, two vi
to be f)actors that played the. comedy roles of vnose AnkleaBen Ford, and Don McClure. The playing of these twcomedlans is well-known to-.the'studentbQdyandtheir aelec-tion,will meet with general camfriis 
approval. x"
Sis other prominent parts ofThe Devil's Den are to be filledby Marion Beeson, Irene Tedrbw, -  - - - ,r> Frank
 Esker. .. all famlliar'to i who have followed Drama ' Department activities daring the year, and Walt. Rogers is well sat,lsfled with thech<flce. Nine secondary parts yet remain to be filled, along with a group of extras, end it Is expected that these additional names will be ready' for announcement within ' a few days. The showis being cast by Rogers.' .The final selection of Itfr. Jariney's story for the Campus'Week production was made solely tifon Its merits. A tale of Greenwich Village night Ufe, It Is filled with bloodcurdling, gory, mystery and portrays the riotous abandon of NewYorks proverbial Bohemia.
Screen tests of Carnegie Techs leading male personalities here on April 29 received a big boost yesterday when Clarence Overend, student manager of athletics, gave his enthusiastic endorsement to the plan, and urged a number of his first siring athletes lo turn out for the test making.
According to plans for a nationwide search for college men conducted joiDlly by First National Pictures Btudlos and College Humor, Carnegie will be Tislted Friday afternoon, April 29, by the photographic; unit which teri ofTech gymnasium at'three oclock. From the number reporting for this preliminary examination the beat' photographic personal!- will be chosen, individually s up and -individually photographed.
the aggregatenumber' of ide at the schoolB visited by the studio men, - John; McCor* tick, general manager of West Coast production for First Nation* al, who originated the idea of nging college, men into picture iking, will select tbe most proninig,'provide them with transportation to and .from" California and eigbtweeks-trial In' picture*
Emily Fulton, Dessa Lazick 
and Ida\\Valdron ^re 
Still Candidates^ _
Theso names-e
TRY-OUTS FOR VAUDE 
VILLE THIS FRIDAY P. M.
centric' bachelor millionaire,' whose sole interest Is the practice and study of art In Its every phase.
of Mr. Theodore Vieman, dramatic director'of the play,and director in the .Department of Drama, Mr.  (Continued-on Page: Four.)
S W E E P ST AK ES < AGAIN 
TO BE RUN IN HEATS
No Letter-Men Are Eligible; 
All Heats To Be Timed.
. With. Campos Week almost ;up* on as, the annual sweepstakes, has become a-fdrvorlte topic for epecu.. lation :on the . part of the various Greek.' letter fraternities.' Such problems as ^.eligibility .of pushers and qualification - -for the finals 
arise each year.Delegates^ from Various fraternities met April .6 to'discuss these . problems for this.years sweepstakes;; ' It was voted  that'the races be conducted aausual this 
. year in heats. 'These, beats
.scheduled/ fc>r \Uie;i following.'day. : No'.definite-time' has been fixed as  yet, tout it Is planned to hold th races' both days ^about.ten oclock so; as to give.the'contestants time to 'recuperate from, their nightly ; social activities .than  allowed In previous. years.. This is  .salutary chang indeed, for In 
onar : years the races-, began at e Igit-thirty.V'Anyone who has Vived.a.Campus Week, knowirthat . tw houra .sleep Js not ; enough *' condition' men -for an ordeal; sn ._'as.'- the pushers  in the - sweepstakes}undergo. . ;. Tentative Vptens for holdlngftbe :.;,heats ;on' Thiiidy ' Vre gvea;  and the - 'days . of the' races w flxed . u - Friday and. Saturday : to
Carnegies choice
earlier in the month. Emily. Fulton, Ida Waldron, and sick are the : fortunate girls, one of whom will, be elected 3t Campus Week festivities last .ballot on Wednesday, April 27. The other two will servo handmaids to tbe queen la the
All three of these-glrls occupy a prominent. place in ths social life of the school. Emily Fulton, a Seclal student In Margaret Mori, has occupied an outstanding ) in campus activities during ollegi
starring Coleen Mooi BarthelmeBS, Milton Sitisi' Dove, Harry Langdon, Ken nard, Lewis ' Stonfe, Mary^ iAstor,Dorothy Mackatl), loy.d Hughes, Ben Lyon and hers. Those who display talent "these tests will be offered long irm contracts calling for rapid nancialand histrionic advances Ball and
a great many charming bits of femininity about the Tech' Campus, who If they'would ime out of seclusion, could lend great deal to the success of tbe Campus WeekVaudeville Show if they would add their servicesthe chorus which is sow
edis requested >pear at 4:30 on Friday in the ?Ion, where tryouts will be held. The training of J.he chorus will i under .the guidance, of Vlct< EBker, well-known for .-his pai successes in handling A impus Week dance s For anyS girl who feels that abe has' ability or a desire'tor 7111 be.an.opportune tli > gain some .valuable experiand Information concerning 
chorus work.- Pete Ryggs, chairman of the Vaudeville show announces that. Jinny Perrott will be the leading lady in the Vaudeville show this year, i being coached by Mr. Ryggs i becoming very proficient In playing her part 
will personally featureoe the new songs, i commitoe would like to es pecialiy.' impress upon all girli at their services in the chords irk will be greatly appreciated; ts see a great number appear a 30'In the Union. >,
ALUMNI NUMBEROF PUPPET 
ISSUED THIS AFTERNOON
is .to have thirty-six pages of four extra pages of. cuts 
(not adds.) All the material been furnished by .the Alumni. The cover is said to be the hottest ths' ever graced a college.publication..; A plea'is issued now for mater
ial, art, editorial or advertising, for the Campus-Wee quatematerlall bers: of the studsnt body, Puppet keys will be awarded.: Keys are al: so offeredfor one lull page of: adyertlslng. The:lBBue ir ft. contain
fllty-twb/PMi**.-x;- :
j
! " i
IDA WALDRONEMILY FULTON , DESSA LAZICK
, of the Margai
Student Council for two years, and officer of MortarTBoard, girls National Senior Honorary. She is of WltklnBburg. Ida Waldron, a Music student In tiie College of Fine Arts and -a. mem;of Alpha .Kappa Psl eororlty, frja^-^utjer.^v.. De^sa i Lazick, -Vo from the Collge f'Fine 'Axtsd ai. resident of Pittsburgh,: is e ident in the Palntlug and Decating Department and a member Beta PI sorority.It has been^decided that tbe amatlzatlon accompanying tbe jrbnatlon ceremony la_lo consist lely-of ,pageantry' nd music, e coBtames for the prospective (Continued on Page Two)
Ing. The names of the Incoming Seniors nominated for this Importosltlon will be posted on .the is bulletin'boards and additional names may be added any
Council President wlll.be.held the four schools, eliminating : 11 but: two candidates from ea|h school.. In the final' election; one candidate from each college . will be elected and from these four tae Student Council will elect/the now. President for the coming ye&. The candidate receiving tbe/ s'v* ond highest number of vpteg^jn Council wlil become vice preBi'denLWltfiS
More Companies to 
Interview Seniors
Employment Office Reports 
That Summer Work is 
Available for Juniors
re, there are quite  few tbave not been on the lso -.other
nlng employment The Em
ployment Officeopportunities for apply for positions with well-known compsnles..illowlng ls-& list of fli m apllcatlon may be made by r. The Martin Parry Corpi i, Domestic Electric Company, and Central Pipe Line .Gom /.'Ltd., are Interested in Worfai Management and Commercial seo iora. Reid Press Ltd., wants PrinThe Empire Company, Ltd.. and Bethlehem Steel Company * lly Interested in Minii Metallurgical, Flynn & Emerlch Mechanicals and Machine and Mecal seniors; and the AmerlTar . Product^ Company In Civlls. The International  Motors Company Is open to applications any of the Engineering senFurUier Information concerning, these should be obtained from the Placement Bui . The following companies may oe interviewed on the dates indicated-: S. W. Straus & Company, April 20 (Commercials and Works Managefor Bond Sale^); S.-Sr. Kresge
Models For Statue of Pioneer
Woman on'Exhibit at Institute
NOMINATE STUDENT 
COUNCIL, PRES. TODAY
Candidates for Office To Be Put 
Up In School Assemblies* . 
The exhibition of tbe .12 bronze models for a monument to the PloWomen of America opened Sunday afternoon at the . Carnegie
for' the model of their choice. The selection made by the public will Influence tbe. decision of Mr. E. W. MQfla'nd who is planning
_______jI from which the' Coin11 Preslden^; chBe will lid enoier-lectlon-' '-for--:itB '-:;Si president 
NEW CONCRETE WALK 
TO IMPROVE CAMPUS
the women who helped to settle theWest by their perseverance and fortitude. - The models ' are iurlng the country and are bolng chlblted-in all the large cities. The Fourteenth Annual Pittsburgh Salon of Photographlo Art hold in the Carnegie Galleries attracted photographers rts of tho country.' Two hundred and fifty prints "were chosen by th^ Jury of selection presenting th^ work of photographers ' from Switzerland, the Bahama Islands. England, Holland, Belgium,'- Poland, Spain, Oer:ny: Austria, New Zealand, Canada, China. Czechoslovakia, France
icludlng the bromldo,
interesting effects wei;e' obtainedi by .inpunttng.-tls8ue taper over the finished print, one if the Cathedral on Fifth avenne being especially good.
A new' kitchen 1s being built in the Tear, of the present one and tfter the new kitchen is completed the dining room of the Beaneryrill be space left ^toyed back to absorb the 
whichIL O, T. C. stc tuples the center section of Langley l^b will, be moved to the location of the Automobile Engineering Lab in Machinery Halt'which will be transferred tothe enlarged center section of Langley Lab. The free hand architectural drawing aud tbe Folkd^nclng classes will continue as
, A new Electrical lab. has Just been completed in Toom 107 Science for Dr. Hower, head of the Department of Physics. A great-deal of new equipment has been Installed. HA room 107 and the new equipment will furnish adequate facilities for much more experimentation than has heretofore been possible.A new combustion tunnel - has (Continued on Page Two)
Several new machines have be< added to the equipment In the Printing Department The Miller Saw Trlmtner Company ha9 replaced a fhlgh spepd.
Folding Machino Company .'has
iated :lodel O foldei
Company, April 22 (Syndicate Store merchandising); Halsey Stuart : Company,' no definite : date (Bond selling); Goodyear Tire.and Rubber Company, no definite date; Walworth andCompany, indefinite; United 'States Rubber Company, and American Rolling Mill . Company, tentative. The National' Ammonia Company Is Interested. in Chemical engineers . for saieB, work' in Georgia; Oil Well Suppiy.'has openings for. technical men on their .sales force;- likewise the . Garlock Pabklng . Company. There' will' prol/ably be. a definite dat fqt interviews,with"^the latter, firm in-the near future.. Interviews, by-appolntment.'may be .made , with. lhe}; following: E.F. 'Hausermn, (Architec, Building . Construction, V and 'Civlls) ;. Aluminum Company of Ainerica (any' 'Engineers) ;'. and Koppers ompBny. ' (Chemicals, Civlls; ' .and BulljUng .Constroctlon).TheGood; 
rich THr Company 'Is still tenta(Continued on Page Fwl)
Printing . Departmen growing rapidly: both in' the ber of Students 'taking the c and in the number of mac which are. now a part of thei
A radical change in-the Printing Department is now under c<and further, developments will appear in, subsequent issues of the Tartan.
The Womens Activities During the Coming Campus 
Week Range From Coronation to Sweepstakes
The
the -Cherokee . CUy, Oklahoma, 
t ylll be a tribute
FLOWER EXHIBIT AT 
PHIPPS CONSERVATORY
Kare Flowers From Every 
Clime at Huge Show.
By HAROLD JACOBSON Flowers, flecked on a background of entrancing beauty to 1 sordldnees of buman exlsten serve to spell In their sheer s! plldly the Alpha and Omega human life. From-lhe twilightour lives until the last flicker of the taper over tbe shroud!It has become an obligation that the flowers alone cherish of expressing the sacred passionate flame of love, of burgeoning brightness Into the bridal bower, of commeratlng tb holy Institution of maternal lovi <and of serving to furbish the deep and dark; disparagement that comes with death.Easter Tide always brings to the Phipps Conservatory of Sclienley Park anexhibit of spring flowers that is by far the ~most exquisite floral display' of the year. Here one finds . spacious rooms banked high with lilies; a field of tulips, with a wlnd-mlll in the ter, reminding. oneV where these flowers first found their nam< favor;.,thererare yellow azalaes,1 whlch. are prized so highly by the Japanese; lovely camellias, almost -artificial in appearance - and the hyacinths and'tiafTodlls which were once adored by the ancient Greeks . who wove enchanting fables or fancy about them. Consider the lilies,' was the 
who n theof Judea filling bis listeners ords of consoling sweetness and sanctity, telling them that, not even Solomon In all his glory, could be compared to one of those lovely flowers. He bade them tako no thought of the morrow, since He. who has thus ar(Contlnued on Page Two)
FRIDAY NIGHT 
TO BE ANNUAL 
VISITORS NITE
Nearly All Departments to 
Hold Special Exhibitions on 
April 22nd for Sightseers
EXHIBITION TO LAST 
FROM 7:30 to 10:30
Fifteen to Twenty Thousand 
Expected for tbe Annual 
Open House Night!
CAMPUS SQUEAK 
TO CAMPAIGN FOR 
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Between Jlttoen and 'twenty to.usand people ore expected to visit the Carnegie Institute of Technology next Friday night when the InsUtutlon holds Its Annual Exhibition. ThlB prediction Is based estimates of tbe attentf during former years. Last year, than 9,000 . visitors were counted TI they "visited, one of tho display features alone.
For' this . years Open House night,-a number'of special features ve been added to tbe regular igram. Among theBe will be an exhibition of a furnished stucco bungalow which.has been built in the-Masonry Shop of the College of industries by day and night stu* of tbe building construction courassl ,
Nearly every department of the Institute will be open for publlo inspection in order to give visitors i peek behind the scenes/ by ihowlng students at work in the ;arloUB shops, class rooms;- laboratories, ^nd studies., In the miscel*neous shops of the College of lnistrleB, Btudents will be engaged i practical work, and In tbe lebatorles of the Engineering and Industries colleges, students will 3. conducted scientific expsrl>ents of .special interest 
Thousands of the visitors are expected to show unusual interest-in , ispectlon of the .department of mining engineering in; the Sclbulldlng Including a real mine tunnel that extends under the cam-, i for a distance of 150 feet. This mel is said to be one - of only > in educational Instltullons.-.tbip. side of the Mississippi River.
Experiments In . electrical phenomena iifthiMaboratc>rles of.MSlb1nery'Hall,'SpSfclaT:rsar6''afenf6iF
To Canvass Fraternities and 
Dorms For Hundred Per 
Cent Circulation
With tbe preliminary project 
outlined In a meeting before the r recess, the circulation tuid 
advertising committee are ready launch their completed, plans
?l>e circulation staff will canis the men's and womens domlles' and the fraternity houses an effort to obtain a hundred  cent -subscriptions from the mentioned sources. Fifteen cents will be collected In advance from ih: student and he will beentitled to three early Issues of the Squeak/ one being delivered to his door eaah morning of .the spring 
festivities.For the convenience of the city students, the clrculatlon stalf will1 iperate two booths where papers ill be sold throughout each .day of Compus Week. :  'This annual burlesque sheetof the Bprlng festivities Is managed and -published by representatives of PI Dslta Epsilon and Alpha Chi Alpha, tho'-mons and womens Jourhalletlo .honorarles respective It will , be-delivered to ach subscriber cjarly In tfio morning of ich dayof festlvlttes.The staff ,Is composed of Art Seidels, editor;..Peg Russell.ond FlorMcLAughlln, associates;.Mark 
Seibert, business ' manager;- Klllt Cohen, circulation manager; Bill Kunkle,, advertising.- '!-:>>
pouring molten iron into goouldi In the foundry, an Industrial light Ing exhibit in the physics laboratories of the Science .Building, and spocllon of the Bureau 'of Metallui^lcat Research areother attracIn the Ehglneerlng and In
dustries colleges that are expected ouse 'interest among the visitors. 
In the College of Fine Arts, the program will include short M by the drama students and recitals by the music students, from:30 In tho theater;:exhibitions (Continued on Page Four.)
R. 0. T. C. 'TO TAKE TRIP 
ON RIVER BOAT IN MAY
with i
9 R. O. T. C. will hold Its hual boat-rlde sometime.  late in y Saturday, May 21, has tentatively, but no definite date has been selected as yet 
The members of the R. O. T. C. ?ho care to take the trip will aslemble ' downtown, about 5:00 Iclock at the'docks of the Corps >f Engineers. They will board' of the boats belonging to the U. S. Engineer Department and make an Inspection trip of tbe lmpi ments which . are now under structlon on the Allegheny River or make a trlp down tbe Ohio.
- The Inspection trip will inctud visits to th farlous river improve ments in the Pittsburgh district, visits to fixed and movable dams, locks, and power stations.
All the river and barbor Improvements are under the general : vision of the. War Department and under the Immediate supervision of the Corps of Englners. The .War Department maintains office: in various large .cities throughout the country. , Sometime In the future a large dam will be built a short distance below Pittsburgh on the Ohio River.Last year the R. O. T. C. left at 9 a. m. and returned at 4 p. i after spending a day of pleasui
plans ' arp under 
womens'activities during campus 
ib, it Is' announced by Eunice 
Clark, chairman.; ^Coronation, this 
,: will'be held on Machinery 
Hall Steps. '. It'will consist entirety 
of pageantry,' lii which, the, fifteen 
girls who were elected. candidates 
for,' Campus -Queen will participate. 
Emily Fulton, Dessa - Lazick and 
Ida Waidron re -the thre from inong whom the Quen will be elcted. In connection' with this elections,'- novel-.advertisingechemti 'hu been deTfsed:* fint the legs of tie".'Queen wereadyertls&d'on posters an the : campus bulletin boards, thebi* -the bod lei werS' added^as' the .elections pro?, gr^sed. and when the flnal choice
has been made, the headB will appear.: -. White dresses aud black shoes will be the uniform worn for quali
fication. Senate representatives *of ii. M. C. C. and a F. A. will be the mourners.Plans have been made for a baseball game to be. held alter qualification, as it customary, except that this year, it will not be under the auspices of W. A. A.
womens - athletics fc week.In the sweepstakes.
.tory and.-committee-will, also i responsible for-a - stunt ' at t Co an try Fair. >
The Wmen8 Banquet will be 
given Friday evening at 6:30. at 
the Ina.--A r studentwill -welcome 
those present/and an alumni will 
espond. ,Thef toaet-mlsti 
the evening .willJie Genevieve 
Connors, President of Mortal
- committees. ' as announced 
by .Miss Clark.
Coronation, Jean Spsnger^general chairman; Costume' Design, Purnell;: Costume Construction. Charlotte' Wardale; . Publicity,- Jeon Roy; 'Sweepstakes.-.A4ele. Hahn;.. Quallflcstioo.- v-. Elizabeth Berkhou8e; vAthleties.: LeahWomenS'Banquet.Vsr>
All Thlstlo Sales Books which eout should bo turned I ico. It Is essential that tho books i turned in at (ho Publications office thiB week. In order that tho mnnagement mny know exactly how many books must be printed. The business manager or the clr:ulallon manager will bo In the Publications office every, hour from 12:30 to 1:30 and all books muBt bo turned In to them.
Much Ado About Nothing 
Drama Depts Next Play
ttie different from 'the' usuaT productions /of'the Drama Depart-' ment witl be. the'one of "Much Ado Nothing to be staged from 'April 23 to fa .4 inclusive,, under the' direction of B. Iden Paynl .- This play' Is often .cited as the ost popular of the. works : of the Elizabethan period in tbe lighter . It abounds In amusing situas and affords much chance for display of individual' talent ' in its performance. The revival of the'old settings, and the carrying out the play true to Its original itent.lon will involve stupendous ork. Tbe Elizabethan stage Bottines adhreO-^ rigorous slmpllcd in the plays the effect dependent entirely on tbe^jnerlt of the acting. .The development of costuming and scenery .sinceath century has been very great, and a return to the method of the later day. will be extremely interesting.It Is the custom to produce annually a play.written by Skakesand presented In the true Shakespearean style, that Is, with lettings of the type that weTe. used in the sixteenth century. The dearth of materials for technical!- of presentation of.plays In that day rendered It practically 1mtie for the mass of uneducated people to comprehend the alue of the contemporary ratna, including the Sbakespei collection, and yet the works of the great master have lived to be called the greatest of all tlm< their field.  'There will be many chane'ei cast In this production; for Ini we find
With the posting of tho regulaons for tbo Plebe Prom which is i take ploco on TueBday, April 0, io committee under the dlroctlou of G. Van Vecbten ompbeelzes tho fact that plebe participation is compulsoryEvery plebe in the paTade 111 be checked off yust bofore hoparades before' the ds'sembly of hlaschool. Those freshmen who dooke part in the Prom will bedlsclpllned\wlth the Sophomore^ ilass In charge of the punishment: 
In reference to tho costumes, plebes must wear them betweem 11:30 A. M. and 1:00 P. M. of Tuesday, April 26, but must not entoi*9 attired in costume. They, o excused at 11:10 A, M. or the morning of the' event to go to their lockers to dress Uiemselve thelr costumes. The, costume for thls-event mUst cover all por~ tlons of the body Including. armslegs, nnd bathing suits, gym< suite, and the like nre barred. Tho Judging will take place in 'the assembly rooms of the varlousschools starting at 11:30 sharp. After the assembllos, the Plebeewlll march to Langley Lab whorethe parade will be formed. Headed* Plebe clown band, along: Woodlawn avenuo1 to the Gyro where d ten-mlnute.sklt will bestaged under>. the direction of tho Plebe i.Prom. ommlttoe.
The:';Judges >wlU be assembled ?per classmen of each'Bchool who. 1)1 denote their choice of tbe bo*^ - dressed: freshmen by. applause. . iominlttee''composed of the presT"- dents1 of 'tbe'Senior, Junior nnd* Sophomore, classes will eelect .the' Freshmen-who received the greatramount, of applause. Fresfrwho shsill be adjudged to haveCement Demoostratlon 
On April 21 in Industries
'A demonstration of the best nethods of applying Portland nont stucco and creating textural 
effects In'Its surface wlll.be given; ^Carnegie on April 21, at 8:30 p. T, In Room'104, Industries BuildThe demonstration will be held 
under the auspices, of tbe Portland dement Association, and will' bo conducted by O. A. Matone of Los Angeles. Mr. Malone is foremost authorities in the country on. the use and appllcatton.of P< 
land cement stucco In color, and will explalnfolly the technique of ltB application and tl)e .creation, of thevarlous popular texturaleffects. A -number of: textures ; will be worked-out on demonstration panels during the evening.An e'venlng. meeting .for architects Is planned for ThnrsdayIng, April 21; at 8:<N) p. m.; however, anyone Interested In the .demonstration  Is invited.:. The Invitation Is,also extended to architects, builders and: others In the^ Pittsburgh' district-and.^vicinity.
attend In the afternoon Students of.' the'. archltectnre. and -building construction:'departments vwill; be Interested in thls'demonstratlon,
ANNUAL REVEL, 
PLEBEPROM, IS 
TO BE APRIL 26
Plebe Participation Compulsory; Itenary Down Wood
lawn From L.ab to Gym
WILL EXEMPT 35-40 
PLEBES AT AFFAIR
Sophomores, Newspaper Ken>. 
R. O. T. 0. and lown 
Band To Aid Plebea.
DESCRIBE DECORATION 
FOR MODERN PERIOD
in endeavor lo clear up ttreprevalent muddled condition of" lampus minds createtj-by tbe term . Modern Period,* as applied to the1027 Campus Weelc decorations, a< 
description of some of the outetond* - Ing .features is offered. According-'George McKinney, chairman ot' the General Planning Committee,- decorations will not be profuse, but Ich and detailed. This is to bedonp' in an effort to ^et away from' the maudlin appeafanco that that oatnpns usuaily assumes.
The gymnasium and the Union will 'be decorated with largo mural paintingsIn a strictly modern theme. Tfale preliminary sketches . show them to be spectacular In effect These will be lighted in an unusual way, with an effort to slimmoonlight. Loe Twohlg Is 
in charge of this phase of tha
The featuro of the spring festlv*- 
al is expected to be . the largefountain In front of Arts School.. Completed plans ' show ..this to be06 feet in height, and occupy*- a commensurate area of. ground. It.nepd not.be added that real water is to be used. The fountain loo will be the^ ..subject or uniquelighting effects;a entrees this /year is to beplaced at the V*-In.cut Fonrwhich was not divulged, will be* situated directly In front of thev class tree which now holds the cen1 tral position at the divergence. InThewill blaze beauty to ' make background for t Many other I
appropriate -
___ _______ res .have been.mentioned, but which will' not be* detailed now. The committee this year expects to finish work on* time, but would ' like to add the-- word of caution: "But three weefearematn. - "
APPLICATIONS FOR C. W.CONCESSIONS DUE APRIL 23
Announcement has l)een made by the general Campus Week com*- mlttee, throOgh -D. L. Putt assistant chairman; of the conditions forthe -- granting -- - of campus conceb^-
i All persons who. desire to  sellartlcles on .or about .thecampusduring Campus; Week should mafl"- - their/: applications . to D. L. Putt,^, 4916 Forbes street,' not later than - . April : 23. These applications should: contain-. Information-as. to-.-, -whether the applicant has previously held a - concession jfnd for whatarticles: the: concession was, grant* ed. Inasmuch as some of -the cos-.-. ' cessions are .wanted very much: an-., 
immediate application Is necessary ' 
to secure the rights. ; . . - . -- ; Announcement .of the awards will'* be. -made , In - a ; Iflter; IfiBue' of ' the-

---------------------------------------------------

Vsr >oAnrdOr VoAVonTUfOAY/AymL
In Later Life
Capital and Surplui $15,000,000.00
Mellon National Bank
Pittsburgh. Pa.
LAST BALLOT FORCAMPUS QUEEN TOA BE-CAST APRIL 27,
(Continued From Page One.) queen .and her attendants -which were, begun during tho Easter re* cess are by this time well under
The other 12 girls who were chosen In the first ballot and who will 6erve as attendants to the Queen nre as follows:Dorothy Boyle, Bowling Green, Ohio, P and D; Eunice Clark, Edgewood, Household Economics; ' Dorothy Coben, Pittsburgh. Drama; Ruth Dawson. Wilkinsburg. Household Economics; Katherine Harrington. Beaver, Sculpture; Florence Hartmen, Rouseville, Pa., Costume Economics; Sara Elizabeth Hayes, 'Washington, Pa., English Minor; Dorothy Koch, Pittsburgh, Social Work; Harriet Richmond. Pittsburgh. P and D; Helen
Rlddlo. SAOA Valley.. Pa.. Housebold Economics; Evelyn Aionesson, Fa., secretami;York, Scranton, Pa.; P and
CARNEGIE MEN 
You Should Know
(Continued trom Page One).........Leon Ford, Walter nosers
Beatrice ....... .........................Dorothy Cohfen,  Irene Koskinski. Margaret WertsDon Pedro ................................. .Gerritt Kraber, Don WillsonHero ...................................Marion Beeson. Maty Culllnan,
g. Fra
Also appearing 
the cast are: Charles McClellai
RAINCOATS FOR MEN AND WOMEN
Men*s, $6.00Color: Grey.
Womens, $6.50Colors: Blue, Lilac, Green and red.Aufhanuner and Evans
6100 PENN AVENUE
The right of way
No question about itfor thorough. going' smoke-enjoyment natural tobacco taste has em all stopped!
The world's finest cigarette 
tobaccos-and every bit of 
natural tobacco character re* 
mined and brought out to 
iaU ifetfgTs/perfectioa!Chesterfield
an^ i^>ey>re MD-P
Ijggett -e Mvers Tobacco Co.
For our second of this series 
of articles we have selected John' J>. Bealty, Head of the Employ; ment Bureau, a man every alumnns should know. He is the man who 
helps the atumnl In a business way, and Hi other ways also it the opportunity presents itself.
Mr. Beatty 1s a graduate from the day class of-1920.. He Is a native of Pittsburgh, and before attending Carnegie, went to Stetson Academy and Stet6on University In DeLand, Fla. He graduated .with a B. S.. degree in civil engine after which he was engaged fa heavy construction work with the Dravo Construction Company. and the Jones and-;I^ughlln Steel Cor* poratloni Before coming to Carnegie last fall he was a memtu the Portland Cement Association as field engineer and in service nd promotional work on concrete. During the World War he served as fighting observer with the rank of second lieutenant In the One Hundred und Slsty-third Aero Squadron overseas.
While at Carnegie, he was member of the varsity tennis teai for four years, including the year 
tbe team won the Pennsylvania championship, and be served at president of his class in both hii Junior and Senior years; president ot the Civil Engineering Society, and vice president of the Science Senate. He Is a member of Theta XI fraternity; associate member, American Society :of Civil Engl, neers. Engineering Society of Western Pennsylvania, Pittsburgh Athletic Association and the Edgewood Club. He is at .present tain of the Stanton Heights t< 
team. He is also a member of the Pittsburgh Personnel Association.HJs Clan activities Include the Pittsburgh Clan and Varsity Cli He was formerly vie president the Varsity Clan and Is now pre 
dent or the Pittsburgh Clan, has bad mnch to do with tbe organization or the Pittsburgh
As Head.of the.Employment Bureau, Mr. Beatty Is in close tact with both alumni and stud Anyone who goes In to eee Beatty goes away with the feeling 
that they have been treated the best possible, and that everythli will be done for his foeBt Interests that It Is possible to do. The only lamentable fact _b that many of. alumni do not realize the posb lly of the service tehich.the bur Is able to render, and therefore do not reap the benefit of it.
Mr. Beatty invites alumnt to drop in to see him or write him a letter, so that he may make the Bureau as complete in its service as Bible.
Plans For Campus 
Week Under Way
Alumni Luncheon Will be 
Held Saturday, May 
14 at 1:00 P. M.
evening and Saturday.
As usual, all letter men In track and cross-country will be barred from running in the .sweepstakes. Agitation to bar PIcbe numeral 
men. and men now engaged In active varsity or Plebe competition was disregard  
has not received a letter la track or cross-country Is eligible to push
o
Timken and 
other great names
Call off the names of the greatest manufacturers of 
Automobiles/ Motor. Trucks, Mining Equipment, Farm 
Implements, arid .Industrial Machinery of all'kinds. Most 
likely every one of the greatest engineering institutions you 
can think of uses Timken Tapered Roller Bearings in its 
products. Among designers, makers, and users of all types 
of machinery the special advantages of Timken Tapered 
Roller Bearings are today: universally recognized.
Timkens mean more than the elimination of all possible 
friction, with resultant power and lubricating economy. 
Highly practical simplification and increased endurance 
are also brought about by the ability, of Timken Bearings 
to carry extreme thrust and radial load simultaneously. 
Greater all-around capacity, entirely self-contained, is 
made possible only by Timken Taper,-Timkenmade steel, 
and Timken POSITIVELY ALIGNED ROLLS. '
This particular feature is widely'considered the greatest 
single advance in - the history of anti-friction bearings, a 
tribute to the talent, progressiveness and resources of the 
Timken Institution.
THE TIMKEN ROLLER BEARING CO., CANTON, OHIO
jIMKENrasiMd
iveeks away. Have you ween think
ing and planning for It? We at school here have been busily engaged for sometime with details 
for making this the best Week ever, not only for 
also for you,'so that you mi Campus Week this year t feeling that it was the m ous time you ever had 6ince your undergraduate days.
 Reservation of tags, tickets, etc., wlil be handled similarly to other years. -.Reservation blanks wlU.be mailed out at tbe end'of the month to alumni upon which they make reservations for tags, tickets ior the show, and tlcki alumni luncheon. It emphasized that tags may be obtained only by paid up members of the Alumni Federation, and this rule; will be strictly adhered to.
nl luncheon will be heldSatui. 1:00, but asyet tlie place 
ed. The ladies of Margaret Morrison and Arts are especially Invited 
to attend, as they have not been very numgrous in the past. This
vltcd, to become acquainted with tbe alumni from their district.
.' This year really promises to be a big oae forthe alumni, according to reports coming in. many classes are planning re-unions during Campus Week, and many meetings between individuals are being looked forward to.
The Alumni Office has announced that It will he open one evening of Campus Week for the convenience of the alumni. Alumni are reminded that the Alumni Office is now located in_ theAlltickets and tage will be obtained here, and none will be mailed out. Orders will be filled^ as received, only two tags may be obtained by 
each alumnus.
Notice has come from the Deo Office that plenty of space will available in tbe dormitories, _ reservaUons may be made bet< hand, although this is not nei son/ Alumni may also make of the Hotel Schenley, which <3 one of the Inter-coileglate hotels or Webster Hall Ib also near th Campus, and may be uaed by tbe
All the good features ot forme years are to be used, as well * numerous new plans which are be lng. worked np. It 1b, to bo noted that the Mardi Gras will be held on Friday, the 13th; however, this need not dolaln anyone from tending, as all,.possible precantl* are to be taken to make It perfectly t
the track.Another cause for dissatisfaction and argument was eradicated when it was decided to allow elghl 
to compete In the finals. The-flTst two in each heat qualify for It finals and. in addition, the ne: two fastest cars, thirds or a third and a fourth. The first four in each heat will be timed, plan does away with the possibility of a good team being "kept out the finals by having the mlefortui to run third in the fastest heat/The above plans, have been su mltted to the Campus Week C0_ mlttee for approval. Judges, time <ind time of the races will be definitely announced next we
(Continued From Page One.) 
lean cut young Americans with iarac^er and determluatlon," says McCormick. We exchange an exceptional opportunity for personahe screen offers t)io most and generous reward ior st In the teats is not a vanity but of sound business logic. Wo do not want sheiks nor strutters. Dramatic cxlerlence is unnecessary. Personiltty, intelligence, poise, agility and ambition are the principal reluisltes. * We expect about 200 men o report for preliminary interlews at Carnegie."Carnegie has been added to thelist <alleges: the _the Stanley-Rowfand-Clark theaunder whose auspices local are to be .made. John LeRoy iton, actlug director, who visited Carnegie last week; Fred Bentley, cameraman for Milton Sills and .William Stroh, make-up ill conduct testa here. Various fraternities and athletic recalling the screen sueRed Grange, Lefty Flynn, MacGregor, Buddy Rogersnd Johnny Mack Browting I1 the i
D get(Continued from Page One) Just been -completed in Machinery now being adjusted for tunnel will bea-part of; the Mechanical Lab and will he under the supervision of Professor Trlnke, head of the Department of Mechanical  Engineering. 1 This combustion tunnel will be used tor the purpose of testing tbe combustion of. gaecs: and determining theatur, heat ve?rth of tii As soon aB the school classes, ill permit,;'work will be started y. the remodeling which , will be in on the upper north end of tho -jts school. The sections will be rearranged so that additional stu
dios will be available.'When the students, return to school next September, one-of-the objects ot comment, and discussion will be .gone. The students, will be, able-to complain about-the as :tfela summer a concrete walk is to-be hnllt across the cut bee and Morewood.
THE LADDER
O. Sam Cummings, 
president and general 
the Bellealr Estates: in Tampa, 
Florida, was recently .elected preslof the Greater Clearwater Realty board In that city. .Mr. Cummings was born on July 9, 1S89 at Evanston, ill., where he Tecoived his public school education. He later attended Northwestern rstty and Carnegie Institute of Technology. For five years Mr. Cummings was buyer and depart: manager for Marshall Field
etsry of the Chicago Y.
nducted. Later he became the st international secretory of Kimie. and during bis tenure of office te number of clubs in Kiwanis from ,75 to 700. Mr. Cumhas appeared as lecturer on Chautauqua circuits, has been edi:blef ot a magazine and di:ivlc and welfare clattonideot of the Kiwaois club in Pallas, man .of the Dallas community chest. He was in . the Orville Thorpe le managers for the Kausas City Life Insurance Comduring which period he se-I, trainof 500 i1 directed s 
andMr. Cummings is c tee of International Kiwanis and a member ot the national council of Boy S/couls. Mr. Cummings touk up his aoode In Tampa in January, 1925, in the capacity of director of organtzaUon for the D. P. Davis Company, a connection which he retained until August of that year when he became identified with Ihe BeUeaire Estt ccrn. He is president of the Bay Isle Construction Company, Tampa concern organized in Mi 1925. and a director of tbe DenlsonWolf Realty Company. Mr. Cun mlng6 is a member of th Presbj terlan Church. He was-marrie June 12, 1922, at Chicago. 111., t Alta M. Barnard and their son 1 named William Osro Cummlngi Mr. Cummings Senior's favorite
FLOWER EXHIBIT AT
protect and clothe them.
And la after days of sorrov when again these lonely Hstenei traversed these same plains a destitute of food and aa dolorou with woe; when their hearts falle them with thoughts , of the mo row, surely they paused to "coi elder, the lilies of the field. On cannot today, help but considt these lovely flowers in the pTesei exhibit; the tall Chinese lily wit its silvery white trumpet Is call the iLlly Anratum. yellow calla lilies, reglnal la - app'ee tiger lilies from India, a of the valley like a pleiad of pearls, infinitely fragllo, y< alluring with its evanescing fraOvil tells us that tbe hyaejnt] received ite name from Apolli who, in an unpropltious' moment accidently killed his friend Hyaclnthus, He was. Indeed, sionately fond of the youth and. pronounced a fealty to his frleni -as unfading as the amaranth: My lyre shall celebrate thee, mj song shall tell thy fate, and thoi shall become a flower Inscribed with my regrets;" and so Hyaclnthus being changed inti "was able to bathe In tltrlng theair of
indent, festival
at funeralsever mindful of Apol los Joy when Hyaclnthus was allv and at his grief which Keats lia: well expressed*Who now en Phoebus mounts the fVrmament fondles the flower amid tbe sob blng rain.
There is also a tale of another youth whose name was Narcissuf This young boy was caused by the ruling Nemisls to fall In love v Ills own reflection In a limpid pi and being unable to approach it pined away and died. Where expired there grew a flower which came to be known as the Nardsthe daffodils, (both.'Of the ; family) one cannot help but think of this youth who suffered the cruel wisdom ot -the gods. These tales_ their havas a fascinating background foi all literature, and in their ancient ry have sorved to instill deeper the true meaning of flowers.
Ever since the tullpomania of the 
seventeenth century in Europe people have considered the tulip an Indlspenslble flower to spring exhibitions. At the present exhibit one is fairly astonished at the 'multifarious coloring of the tulips: Bacchus' is a large goblet of deep crimson wine, Gold finch a gorgeous glint of gold and there are others beautiful beyond descrlpMilton spoke of' "the rathe primrose that forsaken dies  Being the first rose as Its name Implies it Is among the most charmCamellias,. especially theCamellia japnica." which i bright blushing rose colorare 
particularly lovely with their-perfect, blossoms. Azaleas, small vellow bell shaped flower* from Japan 
hole room with their' saffron color and elualve fragrance : 
?Rathe-as these flowers are t|ieysoon fade, so that 1t see them In full bloon*. now Is the time to go over to the Phipps Con
servatory, for did not the old Per slan: poet Omar. proclaim' la the 
Rubaiyat, that "one thing Is certain and all the rest Is IIqs The 
flower that once.has blown forever dies
STANLEY-ROWSTEAMB
LAND-CLARK'6MANOR
Wednesday and Thursday
 Rocking"Moon
L1LYAN TASHNIAN 
JOHN BOWERS
Wednesday and Thursday April 20 and 21Let It Rain
DOUGLAS MacLEAN SHIRLEY MASON
Friday
VERA REYNOLDS
Risky Business
^Saturday
Gay Old Bird
LOUISE FAZENDA
Friday and Saturday, April 22-29
Let It Rain
DOUGLAS MacLEAN 
SHIRLEY MASON
1 Monday & Tuesday, April 25>26
 Ankles Preferred
MADGE BELLAMY 
LAWRENCE GRAY
Monday and Tuesday
Children of Divorce
CLARA BOW 
ESTHER RALSTON
. GET. YOUR STUDENT TICKETS FREE AT TARTAN OFFICE
LOYALTY
flirl?
Dont stay away fromiecau6e Its formal.
Rent the latest at
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
PHONE:
Day-Grant 2604 NightLafayette 4791-F
r CLOTHES
RutfjHMde 
And Oat (D'Oitiir 
ESTABLISHED ENQLI9H UNIVERSITY^ 
STYLES, TAILORED OVER; YOUTHFUL 
CHARTS SOLELY FOR DISTINGUISHED 
SERVICE IN THE UNITED STATES.
(Jfowtev House
Sails and Topcoats
40k *48, WO '
STANLfBY-ROWLAND-CLARKS
is: First Floor iSCHENLEYTHEATER 
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY,. APRIL 20 AND 21
THE LOVE THRSIX
LAOBA LA PLANTETOM MOORE
FRIDAY AND. SATURDAY, APRIL 22 AND 23A KISS IN A TAXi
BEBE DANIELSCHESTER CONKUN'
thne I Victor Artists _ A* 
stage I Four Aristocrats51 ENNC
Instrumental*Vocal Quartette
MONDAY AND TUESDAY, APRIL 25 AND 26
'CHILDREN OF DIVORCE
Clara Bow-Esther Ralston-Elnar 1
Tough Skins Tender Skins
TX.7HETHER .your face is ag tough as^ V V raw hide or as. tendef as adental nerve,
it will enjoy Aqua Velva, the new scientific 
after-shaving liquid made by the makers of 
Williams Shaving Cream. For Aqua Velva 
conserves the skins natural'moisture, so  
nece^aary for all-day face comfort. It keeps 
that wonderful feeling of a WilUams shave
all day long. In big 5 oz. bottles5oci
Williams Aqua Velva

---------------------------------------------------

renKTCiitAiTAN
 s' < t ?rrt* J, r 
 yrtr did Ihe boy stand on the.
Rist Church of Christ, Scientist
i Clyde Street, Ne
Sunday School,. 11A. M.
Church of the Ascension(Episcopal) r ^ 
"Cor. Ellsworth and Neville
i Rector 
.'Student y6per Service Sunday, 4:30 p. m. Boy Choir. Special Music.
STUDENT SUPPLIES 
C. M. STAUFT
FORBES AND BOQUET STS. 
OAKLAND
BUTLER'S
FOR BETTER GROCERIES 
414 SOUTH CRAIG STREET We Deliver AH Orders.J. O. BAKER, Manager Mayflower 7544
LEARN TO DANCE
Jacques School of DancingCRAIG AND FORBES STS.
Beginners Monday and Fri day Evenings. Advanced,
LPuS ePuPsda duS 
yaSK Hs eP::S1S 
30ds dsP30Su Ld2S 
PB 9OFVUIMN 
Wefore the days/of Ccvrlt'ery-thlng le typewritten. Youllten by ' haiii
or portables ie In a  model. It:omblned. Come In and see
word in ^ortabla typers. .Standard four^t-ow ooard, wide. carriage, ive yard ribbonmoremachine features than other portable. Price  $60.00. We also have e. bargains In used Coroas low ae $26.00. kNDARD TYPEWRITER, - COMPANY. !
20 FIFTH AVENUE 
Atlantlo 0342
ANNUAL REVEL,
PLFBE PROM IS
. TO 8E APRIL 28
(Continued from Page One) 
der of the year. Exemption will be mailed Immediately afte judgement  In the college of in dustries, from air to eight will bo orempted, and a like number In both the College of Engineerin' and Margoret Morrison College will receive cards, in the College of Fins Arts four and five men o. five-women will be exempted. Certain members of the clown blind will also be. exempted.
The Arts freshmen will report to Arte assembly; Margaret Morrison freshmen will report to Margaret Morrison Assembly; Sections A. B. C. D. E. F. and Non-Degree Room 104. Industries Building; Sections; H. I. J..K. L. M. and Irregulate Room 218 Scieoce Buildwinners. The R. O. T. C. wltl 1 there to hold back the sopno. mores and to preserve order.
:30-8l00 P. M.
TRY OUR 35c LUNCH 
Special  Pastries with Fra* ternltyletters for occasions.
Shorall's Tea Room
371p FORBES STREET Phone 6chenley 9318
Let's AU Go To The
TECH
Barber Shop
For Our Bair Cuts 
CBAICr AND 
FORBES'
Oakland 
Savings & Trust 
Company
Member Federal 
' Reserve System
The Oakland auk,
Capital/-,- - $300,000.00 
Surplus - - - $300,000.00 
Deposits Over $5,000,000.00
NOW THAT VACATION IS OVER, and everybody, Is back atschool to rest i ~--------boom. Tryouts Penn Relay Carnival c
SPRING FOOTBALL practice wUl commence next Monday, In the bowl. Bob Waddell will be in command for the first week, while Wally is expected to be on deck tor the second. The boys will put through some, strenuous workouts in an endeavor to and a cent a tackle, an end who in carry the ball, and a pair of. halfbacks, replace Manby, Yoder, Mefort, Goodwin end Donoboe. This, of cour . J9 providing that the remainder of last years learn manages, to stay eligible, whicli'ln several cases is extremely doubtful.Much will depend on men from the recent plebe team. Severalbeing banked on heavily to fill regular positions raining will give the coaches a good idea of whether these me up to expectations wbon In' fast company.
QQ Q  .the burden, whichis now placed on varsity and plebe coaches and inonagers, of making all necessary arrangements for the various sports, such as rules, en tries,' publicity, prizes and officials, and would undoubtedly make thing) more interesting and more satisfactory to all concerned.All intra-mdral sports except Lacrosse would be governed by this body, the exception of this sport being
THE INTRA-MURAL TRACK MEET served to transfer anothercup to the mantle of Kappa Sigma. Hayes and Kennedy, t stars, displayed plenty of promise, as did Herbs' ' ~ ' Lockord, S. A. E. iron man, with two firsts ac/1 ss. displayed plenty of i tard, S. A. F  be tn for a big s
THE CHIEF BASKET B^.LL RULE CHANGE, of restrict dribble to one~bounce, is meeting with disfavor with coaches.ai ere everywhere. The reasons given by the rules committee chango are that it will Increase team play and will speed up tb Personally, we think that they made the changes in order.to> of the limelight In which the football rules
3 because' of ishots by individual play-hetd balls, normally avoided >y a clever dribbler.THE SUGGESTION OF President Hopkins of Dartmouth ?ia< teen-caustically commented upon by writorB In many of the nation* iport periodicals, the following article, from the Big Ten Weakly/upon by writ ing art! ' *sting sample of west_ stlon ol Pi " siLy football teams shouldone; but Dr. Hopkins fenouia not do given croon i. The proposal first came from ex-president, Mlkfclejohn of Amst. who left Arnhem soon after ho proposed the. Idea."There 1I no reason why experienced teachers should be hired by
iched by seniors in college Is a eplenl crodlt for originating t*
f the unlv<r colleges. The e...............................ier It be French,3 administration, or athletics. It would be far better 1
well equippedsubject, whether It be French, anthropology, botany, ousl-__nistratl -----...........................
--------taught by -Preiident Hopkins has shown the collegiate, world how to save millions of dollars. The faculties should be abolished. Any man who has been' In college for three yearsknows much more about his subjects than a mere faculty man. LctB abolish facultioB, and lets let the president of the senior class be president of the college.After all, the coaches have done nothing .towards building morale, loyalty, citizenship and right-thinking in the colleges. Let' fire Slagg, Yost, Wllce, Huff, Farrell. OlBen, Ruby, St. John, FhelaiIresnohon, Little and all the rest of the coaches. ' * t the seniors do the w 1 they know whats betj do the work. Theyve spent four
TENNIS CANDIDATES 
FACE HARD SCHERULE
9 Way 1m EH0PEwMjjjf Comfortably 
^HsuHr andSaveMoney
TotdUSTlQ Cabin formerly 2nd cb^mosUyamidebipeonProm. eiuide and upper Main Deck. -Jhe axeuive deck apace means practically the run of the ship.
SCHOOL OF FOREIGN TRAVEL, Inc. 110 East 42nd Street, N. Y. City
Special Student Summer Sailings to and from France and England July and August.
BALTIC AMERICA UNE
O
VER two million cubic .yards of rock blasted liter* 
ally from under the very feet of New Yorkers 
without even jarring their famous metropolitanism! 
Since che: adoption of plans for the Eighth Avenue 
. .Subway in. .1925, contractors under ehedirection of the v 
New iork' Gity Board of Transportation have been ' 
biisily blasting a 57-mile, tunnel under the most con* 
gested traffic centers ofManhattan and Brooklyn.
. Steam shovels and motor dump .trucks crawl over and 
under and in between a labyrinth of tubes, tunnels', gas '
' and water mains. Small charges of du Font explosives, aggregating many tons, are being fired undertherumble 
of great trucks, scurrying taxis, and hurryingpedestrians, 
with ; all the safety prcautions prescribed by the city. 
One of th many wonders of this wonderful city. .
- When completed, this subway will contain 170 miles of 
' ' trackmo te than doubling the subway facilities of New 
:VorkThe cost' of construction willbe approximately $4p0,000;000.Thentltecostofthisgreat subwayis es/timatd at-a> half: billion dollarsone of the mo6t remarkable enterprises in the history of city government.
' Du Pont laboratories; du Pont engineers and field 
service men are working constantly', with users of ex: plb^vW. rnaking available-the knowledge and skill of 
-.125, years of explosives experience. -
E. L DU PONT-DE NEMOURS CO., Inc.
Y E77.XRGVO,J AIMdEUFI Q
135 YEARS OF LEADERSHIP 
N THE .SERVICE :OF INDUSTRY
The call for'tennls candidates made Thursday, March 31, received hearty, response. Seventeen men ime out for the varsity while renty-three plebes heard the call ot the yearling team. Among the varsity candidates are Baer, Hoffitid Captain Hooper, returning men. Among the returning members of last years plebe team, Schmid promises a good brand ennls. The outlook for the team Is very bright, although the schedule is a difficult one.
A large number of plebes are also trying out for Learn manager. Despite this fact, any new candidates for the position will be heartily, welcomed by Manager N. P. Mitchell. The tennis managership otters an excellent opportunity' for one to receive a letter when he does not think he could make the
interest are the matches on the 12tli, 13th and 14th, during Campus Week with Bethany, Notre Dame and the alumttt, which should furnish plenty of excitement for the court followers at that time. The plebe schedule has . not been complete but freshman manager, Harold Forgostein, Is working on it and there is a possibility of one or two trips being included.
 At the present' time, the players are practicing in the gymnasium itinue to do so untilthe weathernd hi;assists the ]3 put the courtsIn shape:The schedule follows:April 2SW. & J., there.April 3(>Bethany, there.May 2Grove City, here. 'May oGeorgetown, Washington. D. C.May 6New York University, there.May 7Penn State, State College.May $Pitt, here.May 12Notre Dame, here.  May 13Bethany, hero. .May 14Alumni, here.May 18Pitt, there;May 20Bucknell, here.May 21Oberlln, here.May 23W. & J., here.
May 28State College, here.
INTERSCHOLASTIC TRACK 
MEET TO BE HELD MAY 7
Plans for the annual Inter-scbolastlc track and field meet, to be held May 7, are rapidly rounding shape, invitations for participation in this meet bave already' sent to 550 high schools ot sylvania, WeBt Virginia, Ohio 
New York.' From acknowledgements oE the. invitations, and Judging from previous meets, from i hundred to one thousand ath* letes/ are.- expected, to compete In 
vent Competition Is..limited strictly, to high school athletes; the nt; intended as a; purely high school-, affair.. - The -meetssince their .beginning, have been the lar
gest of their Jtlnrf-in Westerij, Pennsylvania,, enjoyin'*.with, this 
the recognition of the^Entire.eastern track authorities ftnd:T>atr6n:: For the first time in the history of the meets, this year .will. nfcrk the hammer throw as an optional 
>-enL -Heretofore, this event has besnv merely a. one-sided competition, at(D onJy two or three schools participating.4:. large  cop will y he given the high school scoring the Ingest
CARNEGIE RIFLE MEN 
WIN FROM NEBRASKA
tion match, during the week Ing MaTCh 25. This was a-fifteen 
man match with , the ten high scores to count The scores were:
Carnegie Tech, 3,790 out of a possible 4,000; Nebraska, 3,734.The individual scores for Carnegie were:1. Campbell, W. O........... S902. Fisher, A. M................ 3633. Bronson...'.................... 3834. Weatherell ...........:........382
7. Knudsen ........................ 3808. Park ............................ 3759. Shlrey ........................ 36810. Elchelberger ..1................367
Total ............................3,790This was an exceptionally good score for a ten-man team. The live highest scores were' all above 390, which is much better than has ever been done In any previous match.The varsity has-1o3t but thTee matches this-season, and both : of these by narrow margins. This is a record for any toam to be justly proud of, and was -accomplished throughthe fact that the team spent many long' .lioufg, of hard practice every day since the beginning of the season 1U'October.
'The rifle team this'year has been the best that Carnegio. has ever had, and since most ot the' team wlil be available next year as well as .a number of excellent shots from this year's plebe team, on even better team should be had next year.
The majority of people do not realize how interesting the rifleen-*  n0r l8 -----
that a grealealizod; amount of time and ef__r. ..'be spent on it because it has the longest season of . any sport. It also requires good physical condition to be a consistent shot
. In*dividual cups will be presented school taking the higli point score in their respective classes. For tills, classification, the schools are divided Into four classes, depondont ipon the state grading ot the jchool. Medals of gold, sliver and bronze will also be given for first,' -icoud and third places.There Is a scarcity of candidates for assistant managership of this meet, which will giye to ambitious plebes a real opportunity for rcognition and a permanent position with a recognized activity. Like the other sports, the managership of such a meet requires knowledge of the events from the ground up. The position is worth while, and should be an open door to induetrlous plebes. Anydne interested may learn the details from Andrew Downer, Sigma Nu house, 4921 Forbes street. ...
GIRLS VOLLEY BALL 
TEAMS PRACTICING
Having ended basket ball season the. girls are devoting their time and .energy. to .volley ball practice dally from 12:30 to l:10.' The practices : besan Just before Easter vacation . and  will, continue for at 
least another .week.- So far a good deal.- of .:enthusiasmhas been shown; - but there le still opporfunlty. for many more candidates. Theteams -will - be chosen1 in the ness,, future.-: There :- will' be one
si
OFFICERS CHOSEN BY 
1NIR MURAL BOARD
Tlie last'Intra-Mural basket ball, immitice meeting was devoted to the election of officers for the c< ing year and to a discussion of rlous changes to bo made in the operation of next year's basket ball 
league.The officers chosen to ca next years Intral-Mural basket ball are: President, B. F. Corley, Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity: vice president, B. H. Buckley, Alpha Tan
Reeves, Kappa Sigma frater nit;Thespian of having & controlling 
body, to govern all Intra-Mural sports, was brought up aud fai bly discussed. Intra-Mural basket ball Is tho only sport wblcli has a controlling board with elected officers, and it Is easily seen (hat If all Intra-Mural sports were brought under the control of this board, one similar, that these spo would be able to function mu more smoothly. This board would decide all the controversies which would arise regarding any Inti Mural sport. Undoubtedly such' system would be advisable as the present system has no body of i to make final decisions, which constantly necessary. Dr. Esquere and Buddy Overend have both i oaunended thnt such a body be tnbllsbed.Nert years basket ball teB will probably be divided into three leagues as theyi were last year. It is thought that such a system gives each team a cbance to play more gumes, thereby causing the leagues to be much better balanced. The arrangement, establishes! this year, of giving to each lsngue ner a email cup, and a large cup to the victor of the finals, will probably be continued next year.
team to represent Art School and one to repreBsnt each of the four closses in Margaret Morrison. Tho tournament will, be. played within a week or so.
Archery will also begin this week.The Margaret Morrison freshmen capture;!] first place In the gymno* 
ilum demonstration which was held.at 4:30 on Wednesday precedig : Easter vacation. The Arts >phomores won second place and the Margaret Morrison sophomores Arts freshmen third and fourth places, respectively. The demonstration is given. annually by the freshmen and sophomoreB ot Marl Art School. It includes tactics, drill and appawork. Three physical education Instructors in.the city.act as The winners each year with a sliver cup.
There were two Scotchmen who made a bet on who could' hold his breath longest under water. The
Burlington. Vt (tP.)  With 
'the first chapel service Instituted jASt Wednesday, officiais, of the University ot Vormont have declared that whether or not attendance Is made compulsory wlil he determined by;><ue.''maonor in
The laundry is the place whore 
they turn your nightshirt Into' a 
negligee.Minnesota Dally.
. A free'.Meehanteai pettU win be given to'-eaeh student . who presents this ad when purchasing m 
fountain pen at'Ginger Fen A Giic 8hop, Jenkins Arcade. Does vour old pen need repairing? Tane it to Singers.'  ....................
letters of recommendation' 
/
EXPERIENCED pipe-smoket from Cpe 
burae to Cape Sable (get out your map of North 
America!) recommend P.. A* to you as tlie 
oest tobacco tbat ever lined the bowl of a pipe 
Youll check-in with their recommendation.
Why, the instant you swing back, the hinged 
lid on the tidy red tin your olfactory nerve teg 
asters a fragrance like that of a pin e-grove on a 
damp morning. And when you tuck a load of 
this wonderful tobacco into your pipesay 
, Mister!
Cool as Cape Lisbume, mentioned above 
Sweet as the plaudits of a first-night audience 
MUd as morning in Cape Sable. (Thats work* 
ing-in the old geography!) Mild, yet with ^ 
full tobacco body that completely satisfies your 
smoke-taste. Buy some Prince Albert today and 
make th test!
>R1NGE ALBERT
ffo other tobacco is like it!
c
maithe futurt
ion?" That is what colltge men want to Anou/,\ f nt of oil. The question it best anttuered by the accempliihmentt of others with and like op.This iseriet of advi tracing the progress at West inghotsse of toiltge graduate off the campus some fiveeightten years. Write fo. booklet reprinting the entir.
He went in for instrumentswith a vengeance!
1EN H.
P. Sparkes 
(Alabama JPolytechnic *_7) fin-, 
ished.the Engi
neering School 
atWestinghouse 
" r' he-went-in for
instrument design, j His career 
since then has. been punctuated 
.with solid accomplishments.
By the end of his fourth year 
here.he had completed a thesis 
for his E. E. and had, at the same 
time, embodied the results of. 
this thesis is an indicating watt 
meterone of the largest in. 
size ever built up to. that day.
Shortly thereafter,,-becaiiise^-'.of 
his special interest in the instrument field, he was dispatched on 
an engineering trip abroad, visit
ing and working in-England,
Norway,. Sweden, Denmark, and 
France. Upon his return he 
entered commercial work and 
was assigned to the Pittsburgh' 
territory  (including such in
dustrial centers as Cleveland, 
Youngstown, Pittsburgh)as
specialist responsible for the 
sales, service, and operation of 
watthogr meters, instruments, 
and relays in. this important dis
trict. Here he will be found to
day, acting as intermediary be. tween the sales force on the one 
hand and the engineering and 
factory departments on the o ther. 
He backs up. the salesmen with ' 
a highly specialized knowledge.-^ 
He advises with the engineers 
and with the factory in the design, 
.arid manufacture 'of apparatus 
that _: best sutted to commercial 
_ requirements. 
His own pioneering pint has
still found field for play, so that 
thU year he demonstrated to the 
A. I. E. E. the first advance in 
the method of calibrating watthour meters in thirty years. 
Some _6,000,000 tests of watthour ji?eters are made in this 
country annually. They cost 
about 20c apiece. Sparkes has. 
devised a practicable method that 
chops more'than 50% offi this; 
billa tidy saving. It eliminates 
the bnman element; it gives 
greatly improved accuracy.
..- Thus his first ten years at. 
Westinghouseand not urjlike. 
that,of other Qpllege men:whov 
bring withjthem^when they coime . 
. here,, energy,, imagination'^ and' 
the groundwork upon which to 
build superlative engineering 
proficiency.
Westinghouse

---------------------------------------------------

32b/mt3&m4KNE EEP {IN DAISIES
ALMA MATEE FIRST
3. The most reliable :
4. Tlie best athlete.
5. The best all around i
6. The most typical Columbia i
7. The man most likely to succeed in life,. ' 
The Nation sees these judgments
'revelation of the class mind. More than
One by one the pollegc ideals of the last gen
eration aTe being brought to the attention of 
the college and lay world; editors are at work that they go to show that college life still
every week, dusting off their spectacles, brush-' Volves around the service theory; that it ising away their myopia, and attacking the misconsidered meritorious and fitting that-a young
conceptions and illusions which were closely man should spend his energies and sacrifice his
bound up with college life of yesteryear, and time for other interests than for the one he
finally delivering the knockout ptinch to many is primarily at collegeself-improvement.of them. A case in. point is the present 
service. Service in. the college means that a 
young man should go to School to serve his 
alma mater. At Carnegie, for insance, great
est satisfaction will crown the efforts of these 
students who have sought to bring fame and 
honor to dear old Tech. This idea':'.uonor to dear oia-iecn. this idea is very .. ,, , -, m, 
. deep rooted, manufactured away back before tht^+hlv*  th ,tie dafcs of five foot bookshelves and Extenthm!- tllcy. F* ut o ^ 
eion Courses, and lovingly fertilized since then 
by sentimental alumni, student activity boards 
and the .press agents who write the stuff con
tained in college catalogs. /
 However, things are changing. Students are 
beginning to approach the problem of their re
lationships to Alma Mater more scientific. As 
has been mentioned in the Tartan before, 
people enter activities at college for different 
'   for the
choose the
activity which is going to benefit them most; 
they feel that they havea right to be selfish in 
of tbeir time a^cl abilities during these
As I say, this theory of college behavior has 
been too closely linked up with the whole cam
pus situation of the last fifty years to have 
been suddenly recognized os an entire miscon
ception. Only recently, as pointed out by the
^Nation, at none other than so eminent an ...............................................................................................0________________, ________________ 
institution as Columbia University the senior theory of college life will be that colleges
four yeprs, if never again; And if it wont be 
heresey to say so, this seems'the most'sensible 
approach of all. The kind of men whom we 
shall see singled out for special mention in the 
next generation will be the ones who have so 
selected their work at college that they have 
materially improved themselves, rather than 
the ones who have given their sweat for old 
And Under this regime, the important
 person *class selected
1. The man who had done most for Ha class.
2. Th man who had done most for Columbia.
I CATERING 
Prices Reasonable
That our Refreshment 
Entertainment ia most diesirable for Fraternity and 
all other School Affairs, 
experience will convince.Small orders receive the same careful attention, as
ELLIOTTS 
4010 Fifth Ave. 
Store is Convenient 
, for Students 
Supplies
3 was establishmade for the students, not students for the 
colleges. *
________- ' M. T. H.
ENGLAND MAY 
HAVE DEFICIT 
IN HER BUDGET
Hopes of Trade Revival 
This Year Ar so Far 
Disappointing^
INCREASE IN T AXES
chandlse required Inirbood students 
their tudis.
We reciprocate your a] with Jow prices and exi tentlon.
- Drawing Materials Architecte Supplies J Engineers' SuppliesArtiste MatorlaU
Still Cameras & Supplies . Movie.Cameras 'Projectors Film.Developing Eye GlassesSpectacles OxfordLorgnettes
L REASONABLE .PRICES 
EFFICIENT' SERVICE
Winston ChurchlU, Chancellor of 
the Exchequer, reports that Eng
land will face this year the largest 
peacetime deficit lit the history of 
the nation. The amount of the de
ficit'  is over thirty-six million
Hopes were entertained that 
there would be a trade revival this 
year which would enable England 
to recover part of the losses which 
she. sustained during the succeed
ing twelve months; but such 
hopes were sadly disappointed dur
ing the first quarter of the cur
rent year. The best recovery Is re
ported to he In the steel Industry. 
It seems that thecoal strike baa 
bad very serious effects, and that 
It was impossible to come any 
where estimating thd Indirect costs 
which resulted from It,Tlie heaviest drop in the revenues of England occurred la the income and property taxes.- One of the Questions uppermost in British minds is where are the burdens of additional taxation to fall. Most people feel that It _b a foregone conclusion that there Will be no additional amount of direct taxation, which comes primarily from tlie. Income tan and property tax; but that there must to additional indirect taxes levied. The problem which Mr. Churchill faces Is that ot levying these indirect taxes In such a way that'"they can' most easily be home and will Arouse the least possible' antagonism. Mr. Churchillprobably' does not feel at this time any particular interest Intliose theories,of taxation which argue as, to the comparative Justice of different methods of tasatlon: He faces the practical'problem which neceasitaate's raising revenue from such taxes as it is possible to colPolncalre; Premier.  andFinai Minister, expecta'to put lhe Gov
ernment in' a position .to .devote; Itself for the next few yeare to.the question - of stabilization, internal financial, restoration and foreign 
obltgatlone. lt appears that France; will be able soon, If she'maintains 
a stable Government, to leel.herself well on the road to 
recovery.
FRIDAY NIGHT TO
V BE THE ANNUAL
VISITORS NIGHT
(Continued from Page One) student work In the various studios; exhibitions of architectural ihd designs'in the department of Architecture. In addi:>n, all of the studios will be ocipled by students at work. Attractions listed In the Margaret Morrison Carnogle Coltege will include an exhibit of hate, gowns, coats, and childrens clothing made by costume economics itudents; demonstrations of table service by cookery classes 1^/ the department of household economics; and exhibit of handwork and if photographs illustrating work in the'field by social service students.ptheT features announced will indue"and 9 ocloctactivities durii intermission. In the main auditorium of the gymnasium; swimming exhibition at 8 oclock by ire of the varsity swimming in the pool of the gymnaexhibitions of communicating vequipment in the field by the n. O. T. C.; exhibition of printing by students in the department of printing and of fine printing in the Laboratory Press; and/a special exhibit of products of the Pittsburgh district \by the department ot Commercial Engineering.
1. What was the first grad
uating class to receive de
grees from the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology?
2. From what state outside of Pennsylvania do most 
of the students come?
3. What is a Loyalty Bond7
4. What are the functions of 
tho Executive, Board and 
the Educational Senate?
6. What is the Beaux Arts 
Institute of Design?6. Who was Margaret Morri
son?
7. Name four playB that have 
been produced by the 
Drama Department this 
year. ,
6. Which department has the 
largest enrollment?
0. How many , acres does the 
- campus cover? '
10. Name three . important 
speakers at the recent In
ternational Conference on 
Bituminous Coal.
NOTE:Answers will be. 
printed in nest issue of Tartan.
Answers for Ask Me Another,'1 iBsue of April 5, 1927,' 1. Carnegie Foundation for the Advancomcnt of . Teaching Is one ot the five beneficiaries founded by Andrew Carnegie. Its purpose is to provldo pensions for .Teachrew Carnegie was the Laird ot S'kibo.Beta Theta PI was the Aral nlty organized on the campus. Henry Hornbostel designed the Carnegie Buildings.
the idea.19 linksCarnegie Chain. -Henry Hornbostle originated the Idea of the Arts Ball,The inscription above the stage in the Little Theater, Heres where inspiration spreads
the Theater was built.The car traks on Woodlawi avenue were part of a branch line iss the present ro the valley wheTe the B. and O. tracks are located.11. Langley Laboratory - w used for storage of-alrplane parts and aviator instruction during the
the month of April under theof the Carnegie Institute of Technology will be given next Monid Tuesday nlghtB, April 18 , when Dr. Charles Terzaghl, associate professor in the DepartClvil Engineering^ the Massachusetts institute of Techilogy, will discuss principles'andmechanicsoil.Thls^eries is expected to bi special interest to civil engineers. Dr. Terzaghl, a Czecko-Slovakian, graduate of Roberts College In Constantinople, and la considered authority on the mechanics and classification of soil. He came to this country three, years ago to acappointment; on the facMassachusetts Tech'and since that time has fieen patned as consultant, for' the Federal Bu<. an of Public Hoads in WashingnJ D. C., In recognition of hts
pressures of oil, andprinciples of soU mechanics:
OnMonday night, Dr. Terzaghl will speak on Principles of Soil' Classification" and on Tuesday .night he. will lecture on'Soll Tests for Engineering purposes.'' Each of .the twolectures wlll-be gl' sit 8:30 in the Carnegie .Union < will be, free 'to the general public:
/ Rose was^me of .those girls who would . write. "You Botl1 line in 'the Blue Book where':It says. "Date."Kilildllk (Heldel12 The tunnel under the pns Is a concrete structure bulll the purpose of distributing water, heat and power to different parts of the campus. It ru Machinery Hall to Margai 'Ison via of Arts School, with tranches to Science and the Gymnasium.13. The Mens Dormitories are named after Carnegie studentsho died during the war.14. The first Campus Week was
Notes of Music
THE HARVARD GLEE CLUB Both America.-end Europe, have 
et the seal of musical oppToval on the work of. the ^.Harvard Glee Club, which under the.direction of Dr. Archibald T. t^vison; will give Pittsburgh couce'ti at Carnegie 
Music Hall oh Thursday evening, 21. .This well liked organi
zation has blazed lb*-trail lor bet;r music It) colleges and unlverslea, and Its. members, who voted me''time ago that tfley would Ing. only, worthy compositions row more enthusiastic about the ieuits. Ia every city of the Ea6t here the Glee Club has been heard, the critics have given it the iest praise, audits tour of the Old World a few seasons ago was greatly appreciated by the Euroi music writers: -Each year the Harvard Glee Club .oppears at >hony Hall, Boston, with the Radcliff Choral Society and the Doeton Symphony Orchestra, presenting some great work of Brahms Beethoven, and It was recently 
iaTt of the Beethoven Centenary In Boston. The musiccompos!- noted on the Pittsburgh program are especially lovely, and intr Sullivan as' well as Two isesand a Ballet from Gluck's Orpheus, the latter to be fen with flute obligato by "Victor .udek of this city. Many promint Pittsburgh women ore among e patronesses and the -Harvard Club* of Western Pennsylvania is taking anacttvelnterest in promot(Continue! irrom roge One) 
3 also. Duquesno Light wants Mechanicals for power plant -work. 
Only an indication of the type men these firms desiro is given here, and those interested in any these should drop into the Em>yment Office for full informan on the opportunities offered. Either Mr. TllbTook dr Mr. Beatty offer their assistance in aidlealors in getting interviews
chiefly for the benefit o! the Civil? 3ulldlng Construction seniors a report will be made in :
also c; ;ln. Appliof Nei
summer work from now on. Sc of the companies offering sumi Standard Oil Compi ersey, Duquesne Light Ohio Public Service Company, Pennsylvania " Stan Highway Department, and one oi two of the steel companies. Then are also several positlons as physl sal directors at summer camp: which remain unfilled.
All Information of any employ ment should be obtained from tbi Employment Bureau .In Central Building. Kenneth Tilbroofc, andlohn D. Beatty are 1 vili be glad to help a smployment
and^one seekin
TheMontreal, Quebec.(I.P.) firsthumorous college magasine^ir Canada has - made ita appearand on the campus of McGill Univer sity. The new publication li christened, The Martlet"
NAME AND CAST r A
. OF 8 C. W. HOW
tS ANNOUNCED
-(Continued from Page One) 
Vieman. has directed many ot the 
Departments Little Theater. suc
cesses In the pas, and the show 
commItte\ Is considered Indeed 
fortunate in having engaged his 
services for( The Devils Den.. 
He will be assisted by Waltor Rog
ers.' The  technical work in connection with the show Is under the guidance of Mr. John Harding, also of the Department of Drama. M.'. Harding haa also ben 
Instrumental la the production-of plays ot -the'department and
vmli*d 'sad
greatfr appreciated by his staff on 
the new play.
The bueluesa staff of the Caxnpo.8 
Week show has been can7lng out 
Its oarly. plans for the management of the production, ond jt is rumored that a number of novel features wOl be enlisted In advertising The Devil's . Den. Hecently a mysteri
ous box wae received from New York; that lias much to do with 
these ' plaus. Announcement of the play has appeared on the advance programs of the Nixon Theater,, and er-eclal publicitycampaigns - are being rapidly developed. Prom all present Indications there will be no difficulty in obtaining capacity audiences for both
baaebaU UU is a pwlir siot elHarvard'is evidenced by the hetthat over one hundred' candidate have answered the spring ^ . 
Coach Mitchell. - Harvanl haa  a ' veteran team intact from 
year ais well as a  large number ot promising'recruits from the (raakKingston, Ont.(I.P.)A fiae ot . $200 was imposed upon tha .fiwak: m^n class or Queens .UniveraMy when that body brokq^the rvha' laid downvby the student goVont-" 
mint qf the Institution and held a sleigh ride'- The freshmen -plead' ed that they were Justified m the ' act because the sophomores, know. Ing. of their intended ride, had oqt warned them of the conseqaencea
Devils for
Yet Delicate in Design
* YT - jil
The steel industry demands and is 
using Otis Furnace and Bell Hoists 
for their modern blase furnaces.
These may be in continuous opera
tion night and day for periods of 
from three to seven years, depend
ing upon business and life of furnace 
lining. Hence the Otis Hoist and 
Otis automatic controlling mech
anism must be extremely reliable 
and constructedto withstaod the 
severe strains and wear imposed by 
years of continuous service. ' 
One of the most important fea
tures in connection with furnace 
hoists is the question of continuous 
operation. The machines must be 
entirely dependable, so that there 
vtrill be no shutting down for re
pairs, as it is a very expensive matter 
to shut down a complete blast fur
nace, which would be necessary if 
the hoist were out of servicc.
The filling of the furnace itsejf is 
done by one mao, all operations
being so interlocked that the operavalve or small^bell of thefurnace/ 
tors cannot deviate from the preAs the skip-starts down, an auto
scribed schedule. The furnace is matic device starts the small bell 
filled by means of skips operated by operating mechanism, allowing the 
Otis automatic : electric hoisting small one to open and deposit the 
machines. The materials used are material on the lower valve or large 
ore, coke and limestone, each load bell. After a number of predeter-. 
of a kind being dumped into the_ mined loads of he various mateskip from a car carrying material rials have been deposited on the 
from the bins. _ lar*ge bell, the automatic  device;
As the skip reaches the top of starts this into motion, allowing 
the furnace, it automatically de.the full load to slide off the bell 
livers the material onto the u^per> the furnace.
OTIS E L E VA T O Rt COMPANY
11 Principal Cities oftthe^Poild
yiTeslej5, Ohio. (I.P.)  Ohio University 'claims the Ing graduate of any .American college .or university. Samuel Wesley Williams, who graduated from Ohio Wesleyan in 1852, has just passed his .ninetyninth birthday.
Allentown,- Pa.(I.P.)Copying the practice of Oxford University, Cedar Crest. College recently, held an experimental oral examination la English literature, as studies from the student point piview. The .test was given by Instructors from otlier colleges and universities. The experiment waa pronouneeds eaccessful. and. tlie women who underwent the examination declared that they enjoyed It
Cliff Restaurant' iES TBLVs >AoOd iVArrV nIHN Q9NUIR 
VNY 9^N T,;FVHC G^.FDIRlpB9 i,I9CHCcA(HI V9 i(^4I.(; 0
Chaige to theaeaat ef_
etwa O T9FX"N p
MMCSIMl &ARLTON. nmiMff
Scad tho following message, aobjeci to tho tcrma oo hack hereof, which ore hereby agreed to
FBBTOH riHS ' '
CABNE8IE US! OP TECHH0L0QY 
PITT3BDHSH PA'11
THE WHOLE QDESTIOI OP PEEPECTION'IN__PIPE TOBACCO'IS SSTTIED 
FOR IIFE WHENJYOD;ADOPT:B1UE-BOAH. THERE 13 SOMETHING 
4B0UT,ITS SUPREME QUIITY THAT IS-FINil AND CONCLUSIVE WS 
ABE TOLD BY PIPE SMOKERS IP^YOU HAVE THE SLIGHTiSTi 
DOUBT OF.THIS OHE DELIGHTFUL 
PIPEPUL/iILL _C0HVIHCE _Y0U,
