PILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
SCITECHFORUM
thetartan.org
@thetartan
January 21, 2013
Volume 107, Issue 14
Pittsburgh music collective DETOUR hosts Poupon  B8
Death raises concerns for web transparency  A7Professor, students prepare for Mars  A4
Coffee grounds, plastic forks get new life at Tazza DOro
Pfenning pleased to start new jobKBox combines singing and culture 
SOJIN KIM
Junior Staffwriter
The familiar brown apartment building located on 214 
S. Craig St. has recently become home to KBox, a karaoke 
house and business venture. 
Its purpose is to strengthen the Asian community of 
Pittsburgh.
The idea of the karaoke 
house was conceived in the 
fall of 2011 in Finger Lakes, 
New York, when 12 Chinese 
students  nine from Carnegie Mellon and three from 
University of Pittsburgh  
were brainstorming a place 
in which Chinese students in 
need of a cultural haven could 
gather. 
What began as an effort 
to gather Chinese students 
evolved into an attempt to 
bring together students from 
all Asian countries. 
One year later, their idea 
came to life through the 
founding of KBox.
Inside the KBox building, 
rooms are decked with the 
latest sound systems, plush 
couches, and LCD TVs.
One of the co-founders, 
Huiman Tan  a Ph.D student 
in engineering and public policy  wanted a place where 
Chinese students can gather, 
socialize, relax, re-connect 
with their culture.
Other co-founders include 
11 alumna Min Luo, information management systems 
masters student Pei Xiong, 
masters student in the Language Technologies Institute 
Duo Ding, Ph.D. student in the 
Robotics Institute Hua Zhong, 
and Ph.D. student in the Language and Technologies Insititute Long Qin.  
Students from China ?nd 
it dif?cult to make friends in 
the U.S., said Tan. They seek 
other Chinese students and 
familiar sources of entertainment.... So we came up with 
KBox, because Chinese people 
love to sing, and creating a 
place where they can gather to 
do that makes it easy for Chinese students to meet other 
Chinese students.
The rest of the co-founders 
agreed with Tan that Carnegie 
Mellons Chinese Scholar and 
Student Association was not 
enough of a social hub for 
them to interact with other 
Chinese students, since they 
only organized parties dedicated to major, traditional 
Chinese holidays.
After a trial opening in 
August 2012, KBox of?cially 
opened up to the public on 
Sept. 16, and is now a growing 
business venture.
Their mission statement is 
to create an entertainment 
house where students from 
all cultural backgrounds can 
gather to sing in private karaoke rooms, Tan said. 
With more than 90k songs 
 76k Chinese songs and 15k 
English songs and 8k Korean 
songs  we hope to make 
it a haven not just for Asian 
students but also for students 
who just want to blow off 
steam.
Coming up with the idea of 
a karaoke house was only the 
?rst step.
After solidifying their idea, 
the founders had to ?nd a location for a karaoke house, 
buy a building, receive a 
building permit, and ?nd a 
contractor.
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Contributing Editor
Carnegie Mellon students 
and staff have come together 
to test out a new composting 
program at Tazza DOro.
The program, part of the 
zero-waste composting project at Carnegie Mellon, placed 
a bin at Tazza DOro Caf and 
Espresso Bar. Customers now 
have the option of composting 
their food and biodegradable 
utensils.
Tazza DOro was chosen to 
pilot the program, organizers 
said, because it already uses 
some biodegradable cups, 
utensils, and containers.
This is not the ?rst composting initiative to hit Carnegie Mellon.
The food composting has 
really seemed to be something 
faculty, students, and staff are 
interested in, Carnegie Mellon Facilities Management 
Services (FMS) Environmental Coordinator Barbara Kviz 
said. 
We just rolled out 11 new 
departmental composting programs. In FMS, we put our coffee grounds [in composting]. 
Weve been doing it now for 
well over a year.
There are also several 
zero-waste events held on 
campus. According to Kviz and 
senior visual arts major Chloe 
Newman, one of the composting 
projects organizers, the 
Almost Midnight Breakfast, 
the university staff picnic, and 
the homecoming chili cookoff 
have all been zero-waste 
events in the past.
All of the cutlery, all of 
the food is compostable, and 
we have special compostable 
green bags at the event, Newman said.
Tazza DOros composting program is different from 
most previous composting at 
Carnegie Mellon because it is 
postconsumer. Preconsumer 
composting is done by trained 
workers during and after food 
preparation, while postconsumer composting is done by 
customers by their own initiative after they have purchased 
their food.
The major obstacle to postconsumer composting, according to the projects organizers, is the lack of consumer 
education.
Were still in a phase 
where people need to be educated, Kviz said. 
Theres so many kinds of 
plastics, its confusing to know 
what can be composted and 
what cant.
Organizers have sought 
volunteers to stand by the 
composting bin and help customers to compost correctly, 
but so far turnout has been 
low.
Its hard to talk to people 
without any reason, to approach a stranger, said senior 
statistics major and former 
Sustainable Earth member 
Chris Conte, one of the projects organizers. A lot of people dont care, they just want 
to get rid of their trash. I think 
the best way to change that is 
to educate people at freshmen 
orientation.
One concern is the potential for contamination of 
composting bins. The university is charged extra for every 
bag of compost contaminated 
beyond a certain point, and 
Conte said contamination is 
already a problem on campus.
You could look at any recycling bin in the buildings, 
and theres a lot of contamination, he said.
One solution, according 
to Conte and Newman, is to 
make composting a little bit 
dif?cult  for instance, by 
putting lids on the bins while 
garbage cans are open  so as 
to dissuade people who dont 
know what theyre doing from 
contaminating the composting bins.
Once the compost bins are 
in place everywhere, then we 
can work on student behavior 
and getting people to compost 
correctly, Conte said.
But Newman said she has 
seen people change their 
minds at the spur of the moment and decide to compost.
Its kind of funny to see 
them stop and take that extra 
second, she said.
A list of compostable 
products can be found at 
bpiworld.org.
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor
The KBox karaoke house on S. Craig Street, though founded by Chinese students, hopes to strengthen the entire Pittsburgh Asian community. 
Kathy Lee/Junior Artist
See KBOX, A3
NIVEDITA CHOPRA
Junior Staffwriter
Frank Pfenning, professor of computer science, is 
the new head of the computer science department. 
Pfenning succeeds Jeannette 
Wing, who stepped down to 
become the head of Microsoft 
Research International.
Pfenning says that he 
was initially hesitant to take 
on the job because it meant 
giving up a lot of teaching 
and research, both of which 
he enjoys. In some ways, I 
thought, I have the ideal job, 
so why change?  However, 
on the insistence of faculty 
members, who assured him 
that he was the best person 
for the job, he agreed to accept the position.
A lot of things in this job 
are centered around people, 
and I like talking to people, 
working with people, and 
supporting them in what 
they need to do, making sure 
they can get the right conditions for whatever they want 
to do.... Those are the things 
that I really enjoy and think 
I can be fairly effective at, 
Pfenning said. 
However, there are a few 
things Pfenning is not entirely  looking forward to. Well, 
I havent really had the big 
budget meeting. Figuring out 
the numbers and the balance 
of the budget. At home, my 
wife does our checkbook, he 
said. 
Regarding his research 
and the effects of his new job 
on it, Pfenning said, The way 
Im trying to do it is to essentially reduce the number of 
projects that Im involved in, 
rather than just cutting back 
on 25 percent of each of the 
things that I do. 
He plans to remain highly 
invested in two main projects. The ?rst is a project with 
some faculty in Qatar, which 
involves developing frameworks for reasoning about 
programming languages. 
He will also remain involved with a group in Portugal that is working on 
developing a programming 
language that can easily prove 
properties of concurrent and 
distributed programs.
When asked whether he 
will continue to teach, Pfenning said, I love teaching too 
much to completely do away 
with it. 
He has developed and 
taught the courses Principles 
of Imperative Computation 
(15122), which is an integral part of the recently 
revised undergraduate computer science curriculum, 
Compiler Design (15411), 
and Constructive Logic (15
317). 
He also played a key role 
in the development of Fundamentals of Programming 
Languages (15312) alongside Robert Harper.
Apart from his work, 
Pfenning enjoys playing 
squash and hiking. He is also 
an avid reader and especially 
enjoys classic literature and 
mysteries. 
When asked to share some 
learning from his experiences, Pfenning said, People 
tend to make this drastic distinction between arts and sciences. I feel that they have 
much more in common than 
not. Both are human enterprises of understanding and 
communication.
Success in both is predicated upon creativity. Doing research and writing a 
scienti?c paper is analogous 
to writing and shooting a 
movie, for example. Writing a 
small and elegant program is 
like writing a poem, he said.
His message to students 
who are looking to decide 
on career options is that they 
follow their passion, remain 
proud to serve, and maintain 
a balance in their lives, in order to be happier and more 
productive.

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  January 21, 2013
Martin Luther King Jr. 
Day Keynote Address
Monday at 5 p.m. 
McConomy Auditorium
Political adviser, humanitarian, corporate attorney, 
and World Economic Forum 
Global Leader Binta Niambi 
Brown will deliver the Dr. 
Martin Luther King Jr. Day 
keynote address.
As a legal professional, 
Brown represented corporate 
clients in cases connected 
with over $66.5 billion in 
litigation, and also advised 
the management of?cials of 
Fortune 100 companies with 
respect to corporate governance and social responsibility. Browns pro bono work 
includes economic development initiatives assisting 
women, advocating for human traf?cking victims, and 
working with New York City 
public schools.
Tepper School of 
Business W.L. Mellon 
Speaker Series: James 
E. Rohr
Tuesday at 12:30 p.m. 
Mellon Auditorium
Chairman and CEO of 
the PNC Financial Services 
Group, James Rohr, will speak 
as part of the W.L. Mellon 
Speaker Series, discussing 
business leadership, strategy, 
and world affairs.
Rohr joined PNC in 1972, 
eventually rising to become 
PNCs president in 1992 and 
its chief operating of?cer in 
1998. In 2000, he was named 
the PNC CEO, and later its 
chairman in 2001. Rohr is 
currently a director of many 
organizations, including the 
RAND Board of Trustees and 
the International Monetary 
Conference, and is a member of the Federal Advisory 
Council of the Federal Reserve System. He was also director of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Cleveland. In 2007, 
Rohr was named American 
Bankers Banker of the Year. 
He is also on Carnegie Mellons board of trustees.
Terrorism and the Media
Wednesday at 4:45 p.m. 
Steinberg Auditorium, Baker 
Hall A53
Cristina Archetti, a senior 
lecturer in politics and media 
at the University of Salford 
in the United Kingdom, will 
give a talk titled Terrorism 
and the Media: Explaining 
Radicalization and Political 
Violence in the Age of Interconnectedness. It will be 
presented by the Center for 
International Relations and 
Politics. 
Archettis talk will focus 
on the role that communication technologies have in in?uencing politics and society, 
speci?cally regarding terrorist activity. Archetti claims to 
approach the issue from the 
perspective of a guerilla researcher, believing that big 
budgets are not necessary to 
produce sound research.
Film Screening and 
Discussion: To Be Heard
Friday at 6 p.m. 
McConomy Auditorium
A screening of To Be 
Heard, followed by a discussion with the ?lms director 
and producer Edwin Martinez, will be presented by the 
University Lecture Series. 
The ?lm follows the story 
of three friends who met in 
a high school poetry class in 
the Bronx, and deals with 
their responses to lifes adversities. 
Martinez is a ?lmmaker 
from the Bronx. To Be Heard 
has won awards at the DOC 
NYC, San Diego Latino, and 
Sarasota ?lm festivals.
Compiled by
BRENT HEARD
Corrections & Clari?cations
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print issue and publish it online.
Lecture Preview
Researchers at Carnegie 
Mellons Center for Cognitive Brain Imaging have published new research exploring how the human brain 
reacts to injuries.
Using a new combination 
of different magnetic imaging methods, the researchers concluded that when an 
area of the brain is injured 
to an extent which impairs 
its functioning, secondary 
parts of the brain will act as 
a back-up, and take on the 
role of the injured part of the 
brain as well as its supporting 
areas. 
These results expand 
upon previous research conducted by Center for Cognitive Brain Imaging director, 
Marcel Just.
The human brain has a 
remarkable ability to adapt 
to various types of trauma...
making it possible for people 
to continue functioning after 
key brain areas have been 
damaged, Just stated in a 
university press release.
Senior psychology researcher Robert Mason led 
the study, and Chantel Prat, 
an assistant professor of psychology at the University of 
Washington, also contributed 
to the research. 
Mason added that the 
damaged area of the brain 
eventually returned to its previous levels of activity, while 
the back-up team of brain 
areas still functioned. 
Compiled by
BRENT HEARD
Beginning in the Fall 2013 
semester, the Tepper School 
of Business will offer a new 
option for students to complete their MBA program, 
titled FlexMBA.
According to a university 
press release, the new program will attempt to combine in-person sessions, 
online classes and self-paced 
learning to deliver the same 
coursework, faculty, team 
interaction, personal leadership coaching, and career 
services found in the schools 
highly acclaimed full-time 
and part-time MBA programs. 
This new program will 
aim to create sections consisting of 20 to 30 students, who 
will work toward their degree over a 32-month period. 
The new FlexMBA model 
draws on our schools experience earned over nearly two 
decades of successful graduate-level distance-learning 
programs and combines that 
knowledge with our expertise in traditional fulland 
part-time MBA education, 
said Michael Trick, senior associate dean for education at 
Tepper, in a university press 
release.
The program is structured 
so that students complete 
two courses over seven weeks 
and then meet with faculty 
and other students in a central location for a three-day 
Access Weekend. Admission requirements and other 
components of the FlexMBA 
program may be found  on 
the Tepper Schools website.
CAMPUS NEWS IN BRIEF
New FlexMBA to be offered by Tepper School in 2013 
FEATURE PHOTO
Students inoculate against terrible ?u
WEATHER
TUESDAY
High / Low
15 / 08
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
21 / 16
THURSDAY
High / Low
26 / 26
FRIDAY
High / Low
31 / 14
SATURDAY
High / Low
24 / 18
Warrant Arrest
Jan. 12, 2013
At approximately 2:15 
a.m., a University Police sergeant on patrol observed a 
vehicle traveling the wrong 
way on Forbes Avenue and 
conducted a traf?c stop. The 
sergeant determined that the 
passenger had an outstanding 
warrant in Florida for felony 
battery. The suspect was taken into custody and transported to Allegheny County Jail to 
await extradition by Florida 
authorities.
Aggravated Assault on a 
Police Of?cer
Jan. 12, 2013
University Police responded to the Margaret Morrison 
Apartments on a call of an 
intoxicated student needing 
medical treatment. EMS was 
on scene attempting to render aid; however, the student 
had become combative. Police 
attempted to restrain the student and he began to ?ght, 
biting one of?cer and attempting to bite a second of?cer, 
who was also kicked in the leg 
during the incident. 
The subject was restrained 
and transported to a hospital for treatment. Following 
his release from the hospital, 
the student was arrested and 
charged with two counts of 
aggravated assault. He was 
transported to the Allegheny 
County Jail.
Burglary
Jan. 14, 2013
University Police responded to Webster Hall after a student reported a burglary. The 
student reported to of?cers 
that he fell asleep at approximately 12:30 p.m. and when 
he woke up at 3:30 p.m., he 
discovered that his MacBook 
Pro was missing and $40 had 
been taken from his wallet. 
His roommate later reported 
that his iPad had also been 
taken in the burglary. The 
door to the apartment had 
been unlocked at the time of 
the burglary.
Burglary
Jan. 14, 2013  
University Police responded to Resnik House to take a 
burglary report. The student 
reported that he left his room 
at approximately 12:30 p.m. 
and when he returned at 4 
p.m., he discovered that his 
MacBook Pro was missing. 
One of the victims roommates was home sleeping 
at the time. The door to the 
room had been unlocked.
Disorderly Conduct
Jan. 14, 2013
University Police responded to Mudge House on a report 
from a Resident Assistant that 
a student appeared to having 
mental health issues. Further 
investigation revealed the 
student and two of his friends 
had been smoking marijuana. 
All three persons are being 
cited for disorderly conduct. 
 
Burglary
Jan. 16, 2013
Two students reported that 
a jar of change was taken from 
a desk and $40 in cash was 
stolen out of a wallet in their 
apartment. 
They reported that they 
went to sleep at 1:30 a.m. 
and discovered the thefts at 
around 6:15 p.m. Their apartment door had been left unlocked.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Statistically Speaking
On Jan. 13, the Hollywood Foreign Press Association held its 70th Golden Globe Awards, an event ?rst 
started in 1944 and held annually since 1961. Presenting awards for the best performances and production 
work in television and ?lm, the Golden Globes has a 
wide viewership and a celebrity-heavy attendance. 
This years awards show was one of the most popular 
in recent memory. Here are some facts about the 70th 
Golden Globe Awards:
1
$78,000
19.7
The number of viewers, in millions, who tuned in to the television 
broadcast of this years awards.93
The number of voting members of the Hollywood 
Foreign Press Association, as of December 2012.
Compiled by 
BRENT HEARD
Sources:  deadline.com, examiner.com, 
usatoday.com, newsfeed.time.com.
Source: www.weather.com
The number of awards won by  Lincoln, the forerunner for the 
upcoming Academy Awards.
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor
Students and staff lined up outside of the University Health Services of?ce last Thursday during what the New York Times reported as a worse-thanaverage ?u season. As a result of an overwhelming demand, Health Services ran out of its ?u shot supply on the ?rst of what was to be a two-day 
opportunity. Additional ?u shots are expected to arrive this week.
The estimated cost for a typical female attendee to 
get dressed up for the awards show.
Magnetic imaging explores brains recovery from injury

---------------------------------------------------

January 21, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
Kosbie advises students on happiness, well-being in life
NIVEDITA CHOPRA
Juinor Staffwriter
At Carnegie Mellon, we 
see students working terribly 
hard just to get that A. But do 
grades make students happy, 
or is it the learning process 
that matters in the long run? 
David Kosbie, assistant 
teaching professor of computer science, addressed this 
question in a talk he gave on 
the second day of Carnegie 
Mellons Odyssey program, 
Jan. 11. 
The talk, an invite-only 
event held in Baker Halls 
Adamson Wing, was attended 
by about 100 sophomores 
from various departments, 
including some from students 
from Carnegie Mellons Qatar 
campus.
Kosbie began by stating he 
was no expert on happiness, 
but just a well-informed layperson. He related his experiences as an applied mathematics undergraduate at 
Harvard. 
After a year of struggling 
hard but performing poorly 
he realized that hard work 
alone without any heed to 
health and social interactions, 
was the wrong method for 
success. He encouraged 
students to look to their peers 
for support, academic or 
otherwise.
Relating this to Carnegie 
Mellon students, Kosbie went 
on to say that to remain happy 
at Carnegie Mellon, students 
should try to eat healthy 
food and sleep well. He also 
encouraged students to get 
regular exercise. He stressed 
the importance of socializing, 
especially through in-person 
interactions, as opposed to 
communication through 
electronic media or over the 
Internet. 
The message of student 
happiness and well-being 
especially resonated with 
sophomore decision science 
major Tonya Sedgwick, who 
remarked, When he said that 
instructors care about the students, I could see how he sincerely meant it.
Kosbie then related a few 
incidents from his employment at Microsoft prior to 
coming to teach at Carnegie 
Mellon. He assured the audience that some of the richest 
people hed met in the computer science industry were 
among the unhappiest people 
he has ever met. 
He af?rmed that although 
you do need some amount 
of money to live a comfortable life, there comes a point 
where the more money you 
earn, the unhappier you get. 
Not one person in this room 
must make decisions based on 
money alone, he said.
In addition to the lecture 
format of his talk, Kosbie also 
used audience participation 
activities to emphasize his 
points. At one point, Kosbie 
engaged students in a fourminute meditation exercise 
to emphasize the importance 
of meditation in generating a 
sense of inner happiness. 
Kosbie also asked students 
to try some mental exercises 
intended to demonstrate that 
multitasking is less than half 
as ef?cient as doing the different tasks separately. Kosbie believes that doing away 
with multitasking while doing 
homework can help students 
save time and be happier.
Kosbie wrapped up his talk 
by assuring the students that 
faculty care about them and 
highly value student feedback 
on making academic life less 
stressful. 
He asked the students 
to come up with ideas that 
would make coursework less 
stressful; he promised to 
implement much of the feedback into his popular course 
15112 Fundamentals of Programming and Computer Science. 
One of the suggestions 
brought up which reached a 
huge consensus among the 
audience was allowing students to repeat a course to 
improve their grade and that 
the most recent grade should 
completely replace the older 
grade for that course. 
Arjun Hans, a sophomore 
computer science major, was 
impressed with the talk and 
Kosbies devotion to improving student life. Its really 
awesome when a professor 
takes such a keen interest 
in the students welfare, he 
said. 
Kosbie encouraged the audience to implement his suggestions to bring happiness to 
their daily lives, at Carnegie 
Mellon and beyond.
President Cohon threatened
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Staffwriter
James Garrett Jr., Thomas 
Lord Professor of Civil and 
Environmental Engineering, 
was named dean of the Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
effective since Jan. 1. Garrett 
succeeds Pradeep K. Khosla, 
who left Carnegie Mellon in 
August to become chancellor 
for the University of California, San Diego.
Garrett has been a member 
of the CIT faculty since 1990. 
He earned his undergraduate 
degree, masters degree, and 
doctorate of civil engineering from Carnegie Mellon in 
1982, 1983, and 1986, respectively. 
Before being appointed 
dean, Garrett was head of 
Carnegie Mellons department of Civil and Environmental Engineering as well 
as the co-director of the 
Pennsylvania Smarter Infrastructure Incubator (PSII). 
Carnegie Mellons press release describes the PSII as a 
research center aimed at creating, applying, and evaluating applications of sensing, 
data analytics, and intelligent 
decision support for improving the construction, management, and operation of infrastructure systems.
Prior to being department 
head, Garrett was associate 
dean of academic affairs for 
CIT.
I am honored and excited 
to have been selected to be 
the next dean of CIT. The College of Engineering is thriving. I greatly look forward to 
engaging with the entire CIT 
community, and the greater 
university community, in 
discussions of existing and 
new education and research 
initiatives in CIT[....] I look 
forward to working together 
with all of you to take us to a 
new level of success, Garrett 
said, according to the University press release.
Garrett becomes CIT Dean
KBOX, from A1
Having found a house 
on Craig Street after three 
months of searching, the cofounders then faced problems 
receiving a zoning permit 
from the Pittsburgh Bureau of 
Building Inspection, a necessary requirement for opening 
business in the building. 
Tan said that the trouble 
with receiving a zoning permit which lasted for two 
months was enough of a dilemma for her co-founders 
and her to think that their 
project would be killed.
According to Tan, the 
founders had issues with Oaklands building inspectors, 
since there werent enough 
hired inspectors to check all of 
the buildings in the area, including theirs. After research 
in building codes, Zhong was 
able to argue his way with the 
license of?cer to get a license 
for starting a business in 
their building on South Craig 
Street, Tan said.
[KBox] had no money to 
hire lawyers like other big entrepreneurs, so Zhong studied 
[the] building codes of several states.... It took a lot of 
effort, research, and perseverance for Zhong to get a license 
to set up a karaoke house in 
our building, Tan said.
They continued to face 
more issues with the building, 
they needed to ?nd a cheap 
contractor in Pittsburgh who 
could rebuild the interior of 
the rundown building. 
Despite most of us being 
computer science majors, we 
designed the building plan 
and submitted it to our contractor. We did everything, 
from the soundproof walls to 
the interior decorating. We 
raised a total of 20K, which 
came from our pockets to redesign the interior, Tan said.
in regards to future plans, 
Tan said, We plan on expanding KBox to take on partnerships with local Asian restaurants in Squirrel Hill, as well 
as extending sponsorship outside of CMU. We also want to 
attract a larger population of 
students from other schools 
like Pitt and Duquesne; that 
way, there will be a wider web 
of connections.
When asked whether KBox 
seems like a good social hub 
for students, ?rst-year decision science major Steven 
Wang, a Chinese-American 
student, said, Yeah, I think 
KBox is a good place to reconnect with your cultural roots if 
youre Chinese since you can 
meet up with other Chinese 
friends, but at the same time 
I would go to KBox just to sing 
even if I wasnt Chinese.
When asked if KBox added 
to diversifying Chinese community life on campus, ?rstyear computer science and 
math double major Jichao 
Sun said, It seems unique. 
Its not your average Chinese 
student association club.
KBox hopes to continue 
expanding their business in 
order to attract people who 
want to sing American, Japanese, Korean, and Chinese 
music. 
We now wish to popularize KBox to all students and 
not just Asian students, Tan 
said.
Karaoke connects students 
with Pittsburgh community
Annette Ko/Art Editor
PUT ON YOUR NEWS HAT. 
YOU KNOW YOU WANT TO. 
TO WRITE FOR NEWS, CONTACT NEWS@THETARTAN.ORG
BRENT HEARD
News Co-Editor
Just as last semester drew 
to a close, University President Jared Cohon became 
the victim of a threat, which 
resulted in Pittsburgh Police 
protecting his house for 24 
hours. 
According to a report 
by the Pittsburgh TribuneReview, Pittsburgh Police 
Deputy Chief Paul Donaldson 
stated that a threat against 
President Cohon was received 
on Dec. 6, 2012, adding that 
police cars had been stationed 
outside of Cohons house in 
response.
There was the fear that the 
man who threatened Cohon 
may have been heading to 
Pittsburgh in a car bearing a 
Massachusetts license plate.
The threat was thought to 
have been received through 
the mail. The Trib reported 
that the Postal Inspectors of?ce is also involved in the investigation.
The University has been 
reluctant to release details on 
the matter. 
Teresa Thomas, Carnegie 
Mellons assistant vice president for media relations, declined to comment on the 
matter to media sources.

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  January 21, 2013
Professor, students take a trip to an alien destination
SONIA KATHARANI-KHAN
Junior Staffwriter
While students and faculty prepared for their holiday 
travels, Carnegie Mellon physics professor Diane Turnshek, 
physics Ph.D. candidate Nora 
Swisher, and art masters student Dan Wilcox made preparations to embark on a journey 
to another planet.
Turnshek, Swisher, and 
Wilcox were selected by The 
Mars Society as part of a sixmember team to explore a 
long-held human curiosity: 
the possibility of humans living on Mars. For the past 12 
years, The Mars Society has 
been conducting experiments 
to gain insight into how astronauts would survive if they 
took an expedition to Mars.
Each year The Mars Society selects a six-member team 
every two weeks to travel to 
their Mars Desert Research 
station (MDRS) near Hanksville, Utah from December to 
May. The research station consists of a two-story cylindrical 
habitat for living, a building 
reserved for waste treatment 
and biological projects called 
the Greenhab and the Musk 
Observatory. For two weeks, 
each group lives and conducts 
experiments just as astronauts 
would on Mars.
An Ethereal Simulation
At MDRS, the teams research spanned both geological and biological aspects of 
life on Mars. To gain a more 
concrete understanding of 
Mars environment, the crew 
traveled through airlocks, 
photographed geological formations, and studied rock 
and soil samples. According to 
Turnshek, the most interesting ?ndings were those that 
would not be found on Mars, 
such as fossil shell beds as 
far as the eye could see, tree 
trunks turned to fossilized 
wood, and ancient animal 
bones, she said via email.
Although these ?ndings 
didnt suggest a Martian environment, Turnshek was con?dent that the method of obtaining them would have been 
helpful on a Mars expedition. 
We experienced the dif?culty 
of doing ?eldwork in spacesuits. Had we actually been on 
Mars, the way we identi?ed 
interesting sites, mapped out 
and navigated the routes, and 
collected samples would have 
served us well, she said.
Traveling in spacesuits was 
just one of the many dif?culties the team members faced. 
During their time at the research station, they came face 
to face with the challenges 
that would accompany giving 
up every day earthly conveniences and adjusting to an 
environment with a harsh climate and an intense drop in 
gravity.
All three agreed that the 
largest challenges of living 
on Mars were the human 
factors, such as communication, relative boredom, depression, and food fatigue. 
Isolation and team hierarchies 
created rifts in communication. Asking for guidance 
was a procedural pain, and 
the mission commander made 
decisions for us without being 
onsite, Turnshek said. For 
instance, we were con?ned 
to the habitat after a snowfall 
that was deemed too dangerous to walk in.
I think we can ?gure out 
all the technological challenges of getting to and living on 
Mars, but the human factors 
will make or break a mission, 
Swisher said.
Scienti?c and Artistic 
Inspirations
For all three, the trip 
played a signi?cant part in 
their current work and future 
goals. For Swisher, the expedition was a signi?cant step 
toward achieving her childhood dream of becoming an 
astronaut.
My goal of becoming an 
astronaut was not serious until MDRS.... Now Im going to 
sign up for the Mars One astronaut training for a potential 
future trip to Mars, she said  
via email.
After her experience at 
MDRS, Swisher plans to go 
backpacking, participate in 
outreach programs for younger students, and possibly make 
a second trip to Utah or do 
similar simulations in other 
parts of the world.
I have academic and research experience in my ?eld, 
but MDRS has given me professional experience in a totally different category, she said.
Both Wilcox and Turnshek 
intend to use this experience 
in their upcoming works of art 
and ?ction.
Although Wilcox is a thirdyear MFA student, he grew up 
amidst NASA activity in his 
hometown in Alabama, and 
therefore cultivated an interest in space travel. As an artist, I feel my role is to be doing 
research in development for 
humanity, he explained.
Wilcox plans to include 
concepts and artifacts from his 
expedition, such as pictures of 
different soil types, in his thesis. This March, his graduating 
class will be presenting a Master of Fine Arts Thesis show at 
the Miller Gallery. His thesis 
project is a live musical performance Robot Cowboy Onward to Mars, and a concept 
album about humans living on 
Mars.
Turnshek teaches Introduction to Astronomy and Experimental Physics at Carnegie 
Mellon, and teaches astronomy and The Physics of Science Fiction at the University 
of Pittsburgh. Writing science 
?ction is one of her many hobbies; in 2011, she co-authored 
an award-winning book on 
?ction writing,  Many Genres/
One Craft. Her upcoming novel No Experience, is a youngadult adventure novel that 
takes place on Mars.
My time spent on analog Mars fueled my writing, 
she said. I now know what 
extreme water conservation 
feels like. Making use of everything  things I would 
have thrown away without a 
thought beforehand. My life 
depending on my vehicle  I 
have achieved my goal of now 
being able to write ?ction with 
verisimilitude.
The Future of Colonization
Colonization of Mars has 
largely been seen as a dream 
ful?lled only in science ?ction. 
However, Turnshek, Swisher, 
and Wilcox hope to convey 
that it is attainable, and perhaps even necessary.
Aside from NASA, a number of private companies are 
taking steps to establish human presence on Mars. Mars 
One, a nonpro?t company, 
plans to begin establishing 
colonies on Mars by 2023. The 
company is currently seeking 
groups of four astronauts to 
periodically send on reality 
TV-style missions to Mars.
Those selected would pay 
for their own travel and their 
journey would be publicly visible. The kicker is that these 
missions are set up as a series 
of one-way trips, Turnshek 
said. The idea may seem bizarre, but according to Wilcox, 
there has been more than a 
signi?cant number of volunteers.
Colonization of Mars will 
be different from prior space 
expeditions because, in Turnsheks words, it will be more 
than a ?ags-and-footprints 
mission to just say weve been 
there. We need an actual 
reason to colonize Mars. And 
it appears that we have quite a 
compelling one.
According to Turnshek, 
Scientists have recognized 
that having humans living in 
a sustainable colony is a safety 
measure for the continuance 
of our species in case of a disaster on Earth. For the sake 
of humankind, we need to get 
off the planet.
Turnshek believes there 
could be human presence on 
Mars within a few decades. 
Swisher and Wilcox hope to 
see an expedition even sooner. 
Technological ability is not 
preventing us from going to 
Mars. If we put in the money 
and manpower, we could go to 
Mars in the next 1015 years 
 its a matter of will, not ability, Swisher said.
After their experience, all 
three hope to encourage involvement in space expeditions. Mars might be looking for a few good men and 
women, but those who go will 
be counting on us to have their 
backs. It takes a planet to send a 
colony to Mars, Turnshek said.
Whats interesting to me 
about this project is thinking 
about approaching something 
that has a meaning beyond 
just our generation or just 
our time. I really think the 
de?ning moment of our time 
should be  that humans go 
to Mars, Wilcox said.
Robots use eye movement for greater social interaction
BROOKE KUEI
Assistant SciTech Editor 
Imagine a world where 
robots walk and talk indistinguishably among us. Robotics 
professor Yaser Sheikh and 
mechanical engineering Ph.D. 
student Hyun Soo Park are 
working on research that will 
one day allow robots to understand and adapt upon social 
interactions.
Currently, robots have 
a very good understanding 
of the environment around 
them, the geometric relationships, Park said. But we 
think that they need more information. In order for robots 
to be collaborative with humans as a team member, they 
need to understand the social 
context they are in. Robots can 
do tasks, but truly interacting 
with humans requires some 
sort of empathy.
But how can robots possibly understand social interactions? Sheikh and Park 
have developed an algorithm 
that takes into account where 
people are looking in order to 
analyze the social context of a 
situation.
The gaze is a very interesting social signal, Park 
said. Where you are looking at is a very strong cue to 
understand[ing] what is going on around you. By using 
head-mounted cameras to 
track where people look, one 
can determine the point where 
the most gazes intersect. 
Sheikh and Park use the 
videos captured by headmounted cameras to track the 
directions people are looking 
at. The algorithm works by 
knowing where two people 
are and the directions they are 
looking at, and extends these 
directions to ?nd where they 
meet. The point with the most 
intersections is determined 
to be the most important, or 
most socially salient, event 
in the room.
One application of this concept is integrating robots into 
the work force. A number of 
professionals already wear 
head-mounted cameras, such 
as soldiers, search and rescue 
teams, and police of?cers, 
Sheikh said.
Park also mentioned that 
this method of analyzing social behavior can be used to 
study children with autism. 
Either the clinician, parent, 
or the child would wear the 
head-mounted camera.
However, Sheikh believes 
that head-mounted cameras 
will soon become popular 
among ordinary consumers as 
well. I consider it likely that 
head-mounted sensors and 
displays will be as commonplace in a decade as smartphones are today, he said.
In fact, the prototype of 
Google Glass is scheduled to 
come out soon. Google Glass is 
an aluminum strip with a display, a camera, and two nose 
pads that one can wear like a 
pair of glasses. Park explained 
how the cameras that were 
originally used for their project were relatively large and 
bulky; the more recent models 
are more accurate, smaller, 
and can be worn conveniently 
as a headset.
Google Glass could improve the accuracy of our 
research because of its sleekness, Park said. Although the 
downside is that its resolution 
will probably not be as good. 
High resolution is important 
to their research because it 
helps them better estimate a 
cameras position and orientation in three-dimensional 
space.
The quest to interpret human interactions for robots 
can be further improved by 
incorporating other inputs besides gaze intersections, such 
as facial expressions or audio 
signals. Sheikh explained how 
small gestures such as a casual 
shrug or a slight nod of the 
head are easily interpreted by 
humans. 
Human perception is incredibly good at picking these 
up, and were trying to understand how to develop algorithms that can do so too, he 
said. To this end, weve built 
a massive sensing dome in the 
basement of Newell-Simon 
with hundreds of cameras, 
and are developing algorithms 
to learn from what these cameras see.
Sheikh and Park have been 
using head-mounted cameras 
to understand social interactions for the past year and 
are funded by the National 
Science Foundation. As they 
continue their research, their 
?ndings will not only help humans better understand social 
dynamics and behavioral disorders, but may one day help 
robots understand us too.
Courtesy of Dan Wilcox via Flickr 
Carnegie Mellon physics professor Diane Turnshek, physics Ph.D. student Nora Swisher, and art masters 
student Dan Wilcox traveled to the Mars Desert Research station over winter break. Here two participants take 
a simulated Martian trek.
Courtesy of Yaser Sheik 
Head-mounted cameras can track the gaze of humans. This data can be used to create algorithms for eye 
movement in robots.
Courtesy of Dan Wilcox via Flickr
The inside of the Cylindrical Habitat is shown on the left. Right, team members explore the psuedo-Martian landscape in spacesuits. 

---------------------------------------------------

January 21, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
Be available for trainings and throughout 
Orientation Week
Understand the role that Orientation plays 
in the lives of new students at Carnegie 
Mellon 
SerServe as mentor and academic and social 
role model for  irst year students
Have the ability to see things from the perspective of our new students, their family 
and guests
Exhibit the ability to work effectively with 
a diverse group of team members
Value differences in others and promote 
an understanding of respect for various 
opinions, values and cultural backgrounds
Communicate accurate information to 
new students regarding campus resources, policies and regulations
Work collaboratively with Residence Life 
Staff, Housefellow staff and other members of the Division of Student Affairs
Facilitate and lead small group discussions
Represent Carnegie Mellon before student 
organizations, faculty, campus departments, administrators, alumni, new students and their families
Promote the cultural, academic, social, 
recreational and spiritual opportunities 
available in Pittsburgh
Orientation Counselors must have a 2.50 
cumulative QPA and be an enrolled undergraduate or graduate student for Fall 
2013.
2013 Orientation Counselor Staff Application Process
RAGHUNANDAN AVULA
Staffwriter
The human body consists 
of 78 organs and 13 organ 
systems that work collaboratively like a well-oiled machine. Among the most vital is 
the heart, which pumps 2,000 
gallons of blood per day to ensure oxygen and nutrients are 
being circulated throughout 
the body. As humans age, the 
heart may begin to pump less 
ef?ciently. 
According to the Food and 
Drug Administration (FDA), 
each year over 3,000 patients 
suffering from heart failure 
need a heart transplant to ensure their survival but have to 
wait patiently until a donor 
heart can be found. Unfortunately, only about 2,000 heart 
transplants are performed 
annually, leaving a few thousand people without a healthy 
heart. Fortunately, an arti?-
cial heart can be used in the 
most severe cases to allow patients to return to their daily 
lives until a suitable donor 
heart is available.
In order to understand how 
an arti?cial heart works, it is 
?rst important to know how 
the four chambers of a normal human heart function. 
Blood circulates throughout 
the body by delivering oxygen to other organs from the 
right atrium of the heart. The 
hearts primary function is to 
pump this blood through the 
right ventricle to the lungs, 
where it gets replenished with 
oxygen. The blood then re-enters the heart at the left atrium and is pumped through 
the left ventricle to the rest of 
the body.
During the ?rst stage of a 
heartbeat, the two atria contract, pumping the blood to 
the ventricles. During the second stage, the ventricles contract, causing blood to leave 
the heart through the pulmonary artery to the lungs and 
through the aorta to the rest 
of the body.
Contrary to popular belief, an arti?cial heart only 
replaces the two ventricles 
and connects to the natural 
atrium. Unlike the normal 
heart, which pumps blood to 
the lungs and body at same 
time, an arti?cial heart can 
force blood out of only one 
ventricle at a time.
Currently, there are two 
leading designs of the arti?-
cial heart that utilize different 
methods to force the blood 
out of the ventricles.
SynCardia Systems, Inc. 
has developed a heart with 
two ventricles separated by 
a diaphragm, similar to the 
muscle that expands and contracts in our bodies when we 
breathe. Blood ?lls one ventricle and is ejected when an external pump ejects air into the 
other side of the diaphragm. 
Howitworksdaily.com states 
this model has been approved 
by the FDA but the only 
downside is that it requires an 
external pump weighing about 
13-and-a-half pounds that can 
?t in a backpack.
Having external parts can 
increase the risk of infection. AbioCor, the arti?cial 
heart developed by AbioMed 
addresses this problem by 
having all the necessary 
components inside the body. 
Instead of a diaphragm and 
an air pump, this heart uses 
a hydraulic pump. According 
to howstuffworks.com, when 
the hydraulic ?uid moves to 
the right, blood in the right 
ventricle gets pumped to the 
lungs. Conversely, when hydraulic ?uid moves to the left, 
the blood in the left ventricle 
gets pumped to the rest of the 
body.
Both arti?cial hearts need 
a source of energy to ensure 
that the heart beats continuously so that a patient doesnt 
succumb to cardiac arrest. 
The SynCardia Total Arti?cial 
Heart has two external rechargeable batteries and can 
also be plugged into a wall 
outlet. The AbiCor heart also 
has an external battery pack 
but utilizes a wireless energy 
transfer system to transmit 
power through the skin without penetrating the surface.
Generally, the hearts are 
made of titanium and plastic. 
One of the biggest challenges 
is inserting an arti?cial object into the body and having 
the body accept it. During a 
seven-hour surgery, hundreds 
of stitches are used to attach 
the arti?cial device to the patients natural tissue with synthetic tissue called grafts.
Arti?cial hearts have been 
a growing success as technology continues to improve allowing patients to live longer 
with the heart without the 
risk of infection. This past year 
was monumental for SynCardia Systems, Inc. as the company successfully completed 
125 implants. According to 
the New England Journal of 
Medicine, 79 percent of patients who receive a transplant survive long enough to 
receive a donor heart. However, escaping death does have 
a price  covering the cost 
of an arti?cial heart requires  
about $125,000, and a yearly 
maintenance fee of $18,000.
After over 900 successful 
implants, the arti?cial heart 
continues to improve so that 
patients can live longer and 
infection free. Finding a donor heart, however, is still the 
best option for patients.
Russia to launch unmanned probe to moon by 2015
Russia will resume exploring the moon by sending an 
unmanned probe, called the 
Luna-Globe or Moon-Globe, 
in 2015. Luna-Globe would 
have an orbital module and a 
probe that sends back information about samples from 
the moon. 
The probe will be accompanied by three military satellites. According to the Russian 
news agency Interfax, the 
probe will be carried by the 
?rst rocket to blast off from 
Russias newly built facility in 
eastern Amur. The last time 
Russia successfully sent an 
unmanned probe to the moon 
was in the 1970s; Russia has 
yet to send a man to the moon.
Source: Reuters
Goldenrod plant can respond to the scent of fruit ?ies
A study at Pennsylvania 
State University showed that 
solidago  commonly known 
as goldenrod  produces 
chemical defenses when it 
senses sex hormones released 
by male fruit ?ies. The plant 
releases an odor in response 
to repel female fruit ?ies, 
keeping them from laying 
their eggs on the goldenrod. 
This is bene?cial to the 
plants reproduction, since 
those that harbor fruit ?y 
eggs tend to produce fewer 
and smaller seeds. ... it seems 
that plants may sometimes 
be able to smell the insects 
themselves, said Mark Mescher, an entomologist at 
Penn State. 
Source: Discovery News
New robotic ?sh can glide through water inde?nitely
Scientists at Michigan 
State University constructed a robotic ?sh that glides 
through the water while using 
little to no energy. Its name 
is GRACE, which stands for 
Gliding Robot ACE, and it is 10 
times smaller and lighter than 
other underwater gliders. It 
utilizes a hybrid mechanism 
of gliding and swimming.
Like an actual ?sh, GRACE 
has a bladder-like mechanism 
that pushes water in and out, 
allowing it to ascend and descend. GRACE gathers valuable data that aids the cleaning of rivers and lakes, and 
was recently released for a 
test run in the oil-contaminated Kalamazoo River.
Source: Science Daily
British weigh in on third parent fertility treatments
The British public was 
consulted about the ethics of 
fertility treatment that uses 
DNA from a third parent to 
eliminate genetic diseases. 
According to the Human 
Fertilization and Embryology Authority, some of these 
diseases can have mild to no 
symptoms while others can 
have fatal or life-shortening 
symptoms. 
One in 200 children are 
born with mitochondrial 
disease and one in 6,500 
British-born people suffer 
from severe symptoms. The 
proposed technique replaces 
mitochondrial DNA from the 
mother with healthy DNA 
from a third parent. Scientists and ethicists alike are 
concerned with future implicaions, such as the rights 
of the third parent.
Source: Discovery News
Autistic children can improve, lose diagnosis with age
The National Institute of 
Health con?rmed that some 
autistic children lose their 
diagnosis as they grow older. 
Deborah Fein, a professor at 
the University of Connecticut, 
paired 34 optimal-outcome 
children diagnosed with autism early in life with 44 children with high-functioning 
autism. 
Results showed the optimal-outcome children to have 
milder social de?cits than 
the high-functioning autistic 
children. However, they had 
communication and behavioral problems that were just 
as severe of that in the latter 
group. Continuing studies 
may show whether it is the 
verbal IQ levels of the optimal-outcome children that 
caused their conditions to 
improve.
Source: Science Daily  
Newly discovered quasar challenges physical principle
Astronomers discovered 
a group of quasars so large 
that they would require 4 billion years to cross while traveling at the speed of light. 
This large quasar group has 
dimensions of 500 megaparsecs, each measuring 3.3 million light years. This makes it 
1,600 times longer than the 
distance from the Milky Way 
to our closest galaxy.
Roger Clowes, leader of 
the team researching this 
large quasar group, will continue to investigate the phenomenon while challenging the perfect cosmological 
principle. It states that when 
viewed from a distance, one 
part of the universe looks just 
like any other part.
Source: Reuters
Compiled by
DESIREE XU 
SCITECH BRIEFSHOW THINGS WORKHow arti?cial hearts keep blood ?owing in your body

---------------------------------------------------

Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Stacey Chin, Greg 
Hanneman, Alan Vangpat
LAYOUT
Chloe Chia, Edward Wojciechowski 
COPY
Swathi Anand, Manali Banerjee, Sawsan 
Boutemine, Matt Brown, Nivedita Chopra, 
Blaine Greenberg, Chris Han, William Park, 
Sage Po, Taylor Rawley, Julia Yang
ADVERTISING
Grace Chung, Seo Young Hwang
 2012 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed 
by Trib Total Media.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
* Denotes executive committee member
StaffEditorial Board
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  January 21, 2013
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
Adelaide Cole/Staff Artist
The University has recently taken 
an initiative to improve the path connecting the Morewood and WQED 
parking lots. There is a new concrete 
staircase, and the existing wooden 
steps have been renovated to include 
two side-by-side staircases. Lamp 
posts have also been installed along 
the path. However, the improvements to this area on the outskirts 
of campus should not stop here; they 
present the opportunity for further 
safety measures to be made to this 
path.
Unfortunately, the passage residing between the parking lot behind 
Morewood Gardens and the WQED 
of?ce has earned a reputation as 
being an unsafe and frightening 
place to travel through, especially 
at night. For this reason, the path is 
often referred to as the rape trail 
by students. It is unacceptable that 
members of the Carnegie Mellon 
community must travel on a pathway 
that appears frightening enough at 
night to be associated with the risk 
of sexual assault. This association 
is of special concern because many 
?rst-years who live in the Residence 
on Fifth commute to and from their 
dorm using this pathway.
A clear way to improve this 
scenario would be to install an 
emergency button on the pathway so 
that students traveling on the path 
would be able to easily call campus 
police if needed.
The pathway between the 
Morewood parking lot and the 
WQED parking lot has long been the 
subject of speculation, stories, and  
jokes among the campus community. 
We commend The University 
for their initiatives to renovate 
the pathway and increase student 
safety. The University should continue this trend by complementing 
the improved stairs with an emergency call system to better protect 
the student body.
Pathway renovations are a step in the right direction
Legislation necessary in wake of recent tragedies
Diversity of dining facilities should be commended
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Publisher
JOSH SMITH *
Editor-in-Chief
BRADEN KELNER 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Online Editor
CHLOE THOMPSON
Personnel Manager
BRENT HEARD *
News Co-Editor
KELSEY SCOTT *
Operations Manager
NEL UM
News Co-Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
SciTech Editor
ABBY SMITH
Sports Co-Editor
GABRIELLE WEST
Sports Co-Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Pillbox Editor
KAIRAVI CHAHAL
Comics Editor
KATE GROSCHNER
Photo Editor
ANNETTE KO
Art Editor
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
LINDA JU
Advertising Manager
CARMEN KHOO
Business Manager
KELLY HARRINGTON
Asst. Systems Manager
JONATHAN LEUNG
Asst. Photo Editor
BROOKE KUEI
Asst. SciTech Editor
LAURA SCHERB
Asst. Pillbox Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Contributing Editor
ALLISON COSBY *
Contributing Editor
EMILY DOBLER
Contributing Editor
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Contributing Editor
CHRISTA HESTER
Contributing Editor
ANNA WALSH
Contributing Editor
Editorial Staff
Carnegie  Mellon has students 
with a wide range of ethnic backgrounds, and we pride ourselves on 
this diversity. Because the student 
body is composed of such a wide 
variety of backgrounds, individuals 
also have a wide range of dietary 
needs.
Housing and Dining Services concerns itself with the students dietary 
preferences at the University, and it 
shows. With the recent addition of 
The Pomegranate  a vendor offering kosher, vegetarian, and vegan 
options  as well as other specialty 
vendors like Worlds of Flavor and the 
Crperie last semester, it is obvious 
that Housing and Dining Services 
hopes to better accommodate students needs.
According to the Universitys 
Housing and Dining website, The 
Pomegranates owner Zur Goldblum, former chef of Middle Eastern 
restaurant Sababa in Squirrel Hill, 
created a menu to re?ect cuisines 
with ?avors from the Middle East, 
Turkey, and Israel.
In the past, students could purchase frozen kosher meals or sandwiches at other campus locations, 
but were unable to purchase fresh 
kosher meals. Jewish students keeping kosher on campus and students 
who keep their meal choices impulsive will no doubt appreciate the options now available to them.
Goldblum also added to the Universitys vegetarian and vegan offerings with The Pomegranates falafel 
and babaganoush. 
Located in the General Motors 
Room on the second ?oor of the University Center, The Pomegranate of?cially opened this Thursday.
By continuing to add a variety of 
eateries throughout campus, Housing and Dining Services allows students to be satis?ed with their diets at their home away from home. 
Even though it may not be able to 
provide meals as exciting as a real 
home-cooked one, Housing and Dining Services is clearly trying to hire 
vendors and chefs, like Goldblum, 
that will provide the closest possible 
experience.
Because college meal plans are 
expensive, students deserve to be 
satis?ed with their provided meals. 
Housing and Dining Services is 
well on its way to achieving that 
satisfaction.
President Barack Obama introduced a new legislative agenda and 
executive orders for greater federal 
gun control last Wednesday, which 
has left both sides of the debate 
?ercely supporting their values. Gun 
control advocates have looked to the 
President to endorse and implement 
stricter gun control, especially on 
assault weapons. However, pro-gun 
activists have called such measures 
unconstitutional and in direct violation of the Second Amendment.
It seems that now people agree 
that there needs to be some change 
to prevent massacres like the Newtown, Conn. and Aurora, Colo. mass 
shootings from happening again. 
New legislation regarding the sale 
and use of ?rearms is a necessity in 
the wake of these tragedies.
One of the primary steps is to 
prevent the ?rearms already in circulation from getting into the wrong 
hands. This requires more ef?cient 
screening processes.
The Presidents current proposal 
would support universal background 
checks on gun sales and would aim to 
form tougher gun traf?cking regulations , thus increasing the likelihood 
of there being a paper trail between 
gun sellers and end users.
These measures, if enforced, 
could make a difference in the prevention of future gun violence and 
crime. Both sides have begun a conversation regarding background 
checks and mental health screenings. While there is fervent opposition to several aspects of the proposal, such as reinstating the ban on 
assault weapons and limiting ammunition magazines to 10 rounds, any 
bipartisan support at all for a gun 
control bill is a strong indicator that 
people realize changes need to be 
made to gun regulations.
Mental health evaluations are 
also a key factor in curbing future 
episodes of mass violence. Eliminating the social stigma of mental disorders, improving access to mental 
health experts, and improving training for such of?cials in the areas of 
warning signs and red ?ags are a major factor in preventing violence.
The legislation currently introduced makes steps in the right direction, but needs to ensure that Second 
Amendment rights are protected for 
U.S. citizens. Emphasizing the need 
to ensure that ?rearms do not fall 
into the hands of criminals and the 
mentally unstable should be the 
?agship goal of gun control efforts, 
as these efforts will do the most to 
create actual, responsible change in 
Washington.
SATVIKA NETI
Junior Staffwriter 
Understandably, after the recent 
shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School where 27 children were 
killed, some Americans have been 
vying for stricter gun control. While 
this spike is predictable after such a 
tragedy and statistics show it happening after just about every gun 
massacre, according to The New 
York Times, this spike is both higher 
and has lasted longer than usual. 
The children killed at Sandy Hook 
have shaken our social consciousness. We  and more importantly, 
President Obama  have decided to 
do something about it this time. It's 
not nearly enough, but it is a step in 
the right direction.
Washington has decided to approach the issue in two different 
ways. There is a faction that believes 
that tightly written bills and the 
legislative process are enough, and 
there is another that believes that 
with this sort of politically charged 
atmosphere, guerilla warfare such 
as executive actions might be the 
best way to handle this. They want 
to change things; theyre just not 
sure how to do it in the best way.
The NRA, for its part, has been 
making different propositions to end 
gun violence as well. Its answer is to 
match a bad guy with a gun with a 
good guy with a gun. Members believe that establishing armed guards 
in schools is the only thing that will 
stop the gunmen.
When Obama disagreed with 
the belief that more guns were the 
solution to the problem, the NRA 
released a video calling Obama an 
elitist hypocrite for not wanting to 
protect school children but using the 
Secret Service to protect his daughters at school, as if the daughters of 
the President of the United States 
dont need that kind of protection.
But Im inclined to believe that 
armed guards in schools would 
work, at least as a deterrent for anyone planning something in school.
More thorough and universal 
background checks may be the 
sweet spot between pro-gun control 
and anti-gun control protesters. As 
of now, private sellers and sellers 
at gun shows dont have to require 
background checks, and different 
states can check different databases. 
Obama promises to crack down on 
them as well, but theres no guarantee that people who don't pass background checks wont get guns.
Obama is also reinstating the ban 
on assault ri?es that expired in 1994 
and renewing the 10-round limit on 
ammunition magazines. The limit 
on ammunition is something even 
gun owners can get behind. The 
problem that still exists with this is 
people called straw purchasers, 
who buy guns and then sell them to 
people who might not have passed 
the background check, no matter 
how thorough it was. Of course, 
people will ?nd a way to get bigger ammunition magazines as well. 
Obamas orders are a great start, but 
are not enough.
The problem is that Obama is doing all of this instead of addressing 
the underlying causes of such violence. Hes trying to make access to 
mental health facilities more readily 
available, but with the social stigma 
surrounding mental health disorders, not everyone that needs the 
help will get it. Some states, such 
as Pennsylvania, have also required 
mental health hospital stays if the 
individual is proven to be a threat to 
themselves or their environment. 
But thats also dif?cult: Where 
is the line drawn? How can you tell 
people that they are required to 
spend time in a mental health institution before they are considered ?t 
for society? Is that presumable gain 
to society worth the cost, both psychologically and monetarily, for that 
individual?
Society also has a misconception 
that video games or the mass media 
are some of the underlying causes of 
violence these days, and I hope that 
this misconception doesnt translate 
to wasting policy on video games as 
an effort to reduce violence.
The important thing for anti-gun 
control protesters to understand is 
that no one is taking your guns. 
No one is trying to take away your 
constitutional rights. Were just trying to make it harder for the Adam 
Lanzas of the world to get guns.
Talk surrounding gun control not effective
Annette Ko/Art Editor
Were just trying 
to make it harder 
for the Adam 
Lanzas of the 
world to get guns.

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled by Jonathan Carreon and Jennifer Coloma
January 21, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
The Tartan is excited to be back this week. So we asked,
What did you miss most about college over winter break?
LEADERSHIP PERSPECTIVESenate highlights Town Hall Week
As the New Year and the new 
semester have both begun, Student 
Senate is back to work making our 
Carnegie Mellon community and 
campus a better environment for 
all students.
Many of you may remember our 
efforts to reach out and connect 
with students during Senate Week 
last fall. As a body, we were very 
happy with the level of engagement and excitement that students 
showed in stopping by the table, 
?lling out surveys, naming their 
senators, and answering trivia 
questions about Senate.
From our perspective, Senate Week was very successful, 
and something that will hopefully grow to become a tradition at 
Carnegie Mellon.
Our goal coming into this semester is to continue our engagement with fellow students, but 
this time with a feedback and 
discussion-oriented style. To this 
end, Student Senate will be hosting our ?rst ever Town Hall Week 
Jan. 28th to Feb. 1st! For the three 
days leading up to our Thursday 
General Body Meeting, Senators 
from each individual college will 
be hosting an open Town Hall 
meeting.
The schedule for the Town Halls 
will be up on our Facebook page at 
www.facebook.com/cmusenate, 
and you should be receiving an 
email from your colleges Senators regarding your colleges Town 
Hall.
There will be food at each of 
these events, so stop by to grab 
a bite to eat and hear from your 
Senators what theyve been working on. 
Beyond that, we will be asking 
a series of open-ended questions to 
hear your opinions on big-picture 
issues on campus, as well as issues 
related to your home college.
Your thoughts and ideas, as 
always, will be used to drive our 
projects and initiatives for the rest 
of the semester. 
The end goal, as always, is to 
make Carnegie Mellon a better 
place for you. So save the date, 
and keep an eye out on Facebook, 
Twitter, and all across campus for 
more information about these 
events!
Thanks,
Anshul Dhankher
Vice Chair, Undergraduate
Student Senate
LUKE MASA
Another chapter in the ongoing 
clash between those who would like 
to see a free and open Internet and 
those who wish to regulate it came 
to a tragic end on Jan. 11 when programmer and prominent activist Aaron Swartz took his own life.
Swartz appeared to be under 
a great deal of stress due to pressure from the federal government. 
He allegedly hacked into networks 
at the Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology and downloaded 4.8 
million documents from JSTOR, a 
database of academic publications 
that many students here at Carnegie 
Mellon are familiar with. 
Id also wager that a lot of people 
here are familiar with one of Swartzs 
other pet projects, Reddit, which one 
of his start-ups merged with.
Swartzs suicide does not change 
the fact that what he allegedly did 
was illegal, and I cant bring myself 
to fully endorse his methods.
I agree wholeheartedly that 
scholarly journals should be 
free and open to the public, but 
circumventing the proper channels 
to meet these ends does little to 
further the cause. There can be a ?ne 
line between protest and breaking 
the law. If only the line were easier to 
judge, perhaps Swartz might be alive 
today.
Another thing to consider while 
dissecting this case is if the government is in any way to blame for driving Swartz to his demise. According 
to Think Progress, a liberal blog, the 
sentence that the federal government 
was aiming to charge Swartz with  
50 years in prison  is greater than 
the maximum sentence allowed for 
selling child pornography, knowingly spreading AIDS, and, in some 
cases, selling slaves.
Granted, Swartz was reported 
to previously have had suicidal 
thoughts, and his suicide may have 
just been a culmination of many 
different factors. Only time will tell 
what, if any, repercussions his suicide has. 
While I completely disagree with 
those who say it was the government 
who actively conspired to kill Swartz, 
I cant help but hold those pushing for prosecution at least a little 
bit responsible.
Swartz was a clearly ?awed 
yet undoubtedly brilliant man. In 
his short life, he founded RSS and 
helped deter the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA); he will be greatly 
missed in both the tech and political 
activism communities. Rest assured 
that, while he may be gone, there 
are many left who will continue to 
advocate for greater transparency 
and protection of the open Web, if 
perhaps in a manner less likely to 
lead to direct confrontation or harassment.
Luke Masa (lmasa@) is a staffwriter 
for The Tartan.
Fiscal progress rests on work, perseverance
KYLE HENSON
With the quasi-resolution of the 
?scal cliff comes new taxes for everyone. Some of Obamacares 19 taxes 
are starting to kick in. The payroll tax 
cut expired, and some new taxes on 
the wealthy, such as the expiration 
of the Bush Tax Cuts and an additional 0.9 percent payroll tax for high 
earners as part of Obamacare, were 
allowed to take place. 
The increased tax burden on the 
wealthy, driven entirely by the wishes 
of Democratic lawmakers, brings to 
light the contrasting views that Democrats and Republicans have about 
the economy, especially considering 
that those tax increases hardly put a 
dent in the federal de?cit.
Imagine that the economy is comprised of 10 bakeries, each making 
10 pies a year for a total of 100 pies. 
Those pies represent gross domestic 
product, or all taxable income. If the 
pies were distributed like income in 
the U.S. economy, the top 20 percent 
would get 50 pies and the bottom 10 
percent would get only one pie, according to the U.S. Census Bureaus 
2007 Economic Survey of income 
data. Democrats and Republicans 
agree that this is a problem, yet they 
have two very different ways to go 
about solving it.
Democrats subscribe to what is 
being called The Blue State Model, 
which involves redistribution. They 
want to take more pies from the top 
20 percent and give them to the bottom 20 percent.
Republicans dont believe that 
this is effective or right. What Republicans want to do is get the government out of the way and help more 
people get into the workplace so 
that bakeries can make 11 pies each 
or possibly an 11th bakery can be 
opened.
These are policies and strategies 
that grow the economy, creating 
more pie for everyone, making us 
all better off. The Democratic Partys approach discourages economic 
growth. 
Naturally, if youre waking up early and spending all day making pies 
only to have them taken away from 
you, youll probably wake up later, 
not make as many pies, and choose to 
spend more time doing economically 
unproductive things.
This is the big debate of our time. 
Republicans need to shift their pitch 
from defending the rich to recognizing that income inequality is a problem that needs solving. 
We can solve it by creating more 
pies for everyone to eat, including 
those at the bottom.
The Democratic model never actually solves this problem. The rich 
can only foot so much of our nations 
growing bill. The real taxable money 
is in the middle class and upper-middle class, people whom both parties 
claim to protect. History has shown 
us that once entitlement programs 
start, they keep growing to an unsustainable level. When you can get free 
money, why wouldnt you take it? 
Eventually, the money to fund them 
is going to have to come from these 
less-well-off people.
After winning legislative victories 
that got more pies to working people, 
Samuel Gompers, a labor movement 
leader of the late 19th and early 20th 
centuries, was asked, Well now that 
youve won, what do you want? He 
replied, More. 
This is exactly what happens to 
entitlement programs. Everyone just 
wants more of other peoples pies 
until there arent enough of other 
peoples pies to give out. The people 
making the most pies stop working as 
hard, and the economy shrinks.
Its time to help the poor by having an opportunity-focused society, 
not an entitlement society. Its time 
for Republicans to re?ne their pitch 
to re?ect this intent.
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Death highlights need for Web transparency
Jamie Rupert
Decision Science 
Sophomore
People.
Tyler Hedrick
Computer Science
Junior
My friends.
Angela Lo
BSA
Junior
Buggy.
Arun Gundimeda
Business Administration
Masters Student
Nothing, because I was here.
Halley Bayer
Psychology
Sophomore
Seeing my friends, being busy 
all day.
If the pies are 
distributed like 
income in the U.S. 
economy, the top 
20 percent would 
get 50 pies and the 
bottom 10 percent 
would get only 
one pie.
Your thoughts and 
ideas, as always, 
will be used to 
drive our projects 
and initiatives 
for the rest of the 
semester.
Chloe Chia/Staff Artist, art based off photo licensed by Jacob Applebaum

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

January 21, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A9
Mens, womens track teams 
sprint to preseason success 
ELIZABETH MARTIN
Junior Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon 
mens and womens track and 
?eld teams competed in the 
Al Hall Freedom Games on 
Saturday against NCAA DivisionI, II, and III schools at 
Edinboro University. This was 
the ?rst meet of the season, 
and was unscored. 
Several men and women 
on the teams had strong performances that set the bar 
high for the rest of the track 
season.
Sophomore Nathan Cheek, 
the 2011 UAA Indoor Track 
weight-throw champion and 
Carnegie Mellon football 
player, placed ?rst in the 
weight throw  with a throw of 
15.46 meters.
Several of Cheeks fellow 
teammates also had excellent 
performances. In the high 
jump, ?rst-year Mike McDermott cleared the 2.00 meter 
bar to place second.
Junior Daniel Cardenas 
Rivero represented Carnegie 
Mellon well in the pole vaulting event, clearing a height of 
4.25 meters, placing second 
in the event. The running 
events also saw their share of 
strong performances.
In the 800-meter event, 
sophomore runner Douglas 
OConnell ?nished second 
with a time of 1:57:89. In the 
3,000-meter event, sophomore George Degen ?nished 
second with a time of 8:37.46.
I was proud of the way 
that we ran on Saturday. A 
lot of our guys came close to 
or matched their best marks, 
which is very promising, considering it was our ?rst meet. 
We had strong performances 
across many events, in both 
running and throwing. The 
throwers especially look like 
they are going to have an awesome season, Degen said. 
Im excited for our teams potential this season.
On the womens side, 
sophomores Halley Bayer and 
Erin Kiekhaefer, and ?rstyears Erin Persson and Jillian 
Jaycox ?nished ?rst in the 
4x800-meter relay in a time of 
10:13.74. 
It was a great way to start 
of the season, Jaycox said. 
Pain is temporary, pride is 
forever.
In the 60-meter hurdles, 
junior Jacqueline Guevel, a 
2011 All-American recipient, 
?nished second with a time 
of 9.27. 
In the 60-meter dash, ?rstyear Jenna Asperslag raced to 
a fourth-place ?nish, with a 
respectable ?rst-meet time of 
8.35 seconds.
Sophomore Sasha Spalding sprinted to a fourth-place 
?nish with a time of 27.18. In 
the 3,000-meter race, junior 
Elise Halls time of 10:51.48 
placed her third in the event. 
Senior Emily Wobb doubled up by running both the 
mile and the 800-meter run, 
placing third and fourth with 
times of 5:23.31 and 2:32.90, 
respectively.
The best part was getting 
a preview of what the next 
weeks workouts are going to 
be like from the paces ran, distances thrown and the heights 
jumped, Wobb said. It was a 
great meet.
The next competition for 
the Carnegie Mellon mens 
and womens track and ?eld 
teams is the Denison Lid-Lifter on Saturday in Granville, 
Ohio.
Tartans fall to 04 in UAA
GABRIELLE WEST
Sports Co-Editor
The Tartans mens basketball team were defeated by 
the No. 1-ranked University of 
Rochester and the No. 3 Emory University this past weekend. Their record now stands 
at 313 overall and 05 in 
conference.
Friday night, the Tartans 
faced the University of Rochester Yellowjackets at home. 
The game started out as 
a battle for the lead with 
constant buckets from both 
teams. Sophomore guard Seth 
Cordts was a major player for 
the Tartans offense, contributing to the teams ?rst four 
points. 
After the score was tied at 
nine, the Yellowjackets went 
on a run with a score of 2018 
with 10 minutes remaining 
in the ?rst half, until junior 
forward Rob Mohen made a 
three-pointer to take the lead.
Rochester answered with 
a jump shot, regaining the 
lead for another nine minutes 
while the Tartans ?lled the 
gap. 
They eventually took the 
lead at the end of the half 
from a three-pointer taken by 
junior guard Asad Meghani.
The second half opened 
with a tied score off of a threepointer from the Yellowjackets who later took the lead 
and never looked back. 
The ?nal score was 7263. 
The Tartans shot 43 percent 
from the ?eld and 45.8 percent from beyond the arc.
The Tartans next opponents were the Emory University Eagles. 
The Eagles started off on 
?re and progressed the score 
to 209 until Meghani made a 
three-pointer. 
This spurred the Tartans to 
an 116 run to bring the de?-
cit to six points after a threepointer from sophomore 
guard Jason Blakney. 
The half was hard fought, 
but Emory was able to end the 
Tartan run and ?nish the half 
with a score of 5237. 
The second half was not 
much better for the Tartans, 
who werent able to stop the 
Eagles offense. They scored 
95 points to the Tartans 70.
Over the winter break, the 
Tartans scored wins against 
Bethany College and LaRoche 
College, but have not been 
able to carry these sucesses over to their conference 
games.
As competitive as the UAA 
is, we have the ability to do 
well the rest of conference 
games and we have the ability 
to ?nish this season strong, 
Cordts said.
The Tartans will play at 
home against Washington 
University in St. Louis this 
Friday at 8 p.m. and against 
the University of Chicago next 
Sunday at 2 p.m.
Jonathan Leung/Assistant Photo Editor
The mens basketball team huddles up to get ready to take on UAA opponents.
Jonathan Leung/Assistant Photo Editor
Sophomore Matt Loebbaka goes up for a rebound in the Friday night game against Rochester. 
Photos courtesy of Erin Persson, Photo illustration by Kelsey Scott/Operations Manager
Top left: Junior Catherine Paquette runs the mile. Top right: Junior Josh Newby placed ?fth in the mile run. 
Bottom: Sophomore Hailey Brown leads the way for her teammates junior Marie Barcic, senior Leila Bouabdellaoui, sophomore Sara Kelly, and ?rst-year Kira Ragazzo. 

---------------------------------------------------

A10  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  January 21, 2013
CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
After months of waiting, 
hockey in all of its blades of 
glory  has ?nally returned 
to the Steel City.
The NHL kicked off its 
season Saturday after ending a nearly four-month-long 
lockout. This reduced season 
schedule has shrunk the normal 82-game season marathon to a short 48-game 
sprint to the playoffs. 
Due to the shortened 
season, brief training camp, 
integration of new personnel, learning of new coaching schemes, and regaining 
of lost conditioning, this 
should be an exciting season.
Last seasons poor playoffs performance, at the 
hands of division rival Philadelphia Flyers, left a bitter 
taste in the mouths of fans 
and players.
Now, the Pittsburgh Penguins are ready to avenge 
last seasons disappointment 
and make a run deep into the 
playoffs. Hopefully, they will 
skate away at the end of the 
season with another Stanley 
Cup. 
While the roster has undergone a bit of a shake-up, 
the Pens are still led by their 
top-tier centers, last years 
MVP Evgeni Malkin and 
perennial all-star Sidney 
Crosby. With Crosby being 
healthy for a full off-season, 
Pittsburgh should ?nally 
have both of its stars peaking 
at the right time. 
A main cause for the 
Pens collapse to the Flyers 
at the end of last season and 
into the playoffs was goalie 
Marc-Andre Fleurys poor 
performance.
At the top of his game, 
Fleury is one of the best 
goalies. But when hes off 
his game, Fleury becomes a 
major liability for Pittsburgh. 
Not even the Pens offense can consistently compensate for all the goals he 
lets in. To put some pressure 
on Fleury, the team traded a 
seventh-round draft pick for 
Tomas Vokoun, who started 
last season in goal for the 
Washington Capitals before 
losing his starting job halfway through the season due 
to injuries. 
At 36, there are questions 
about Vokouns ability as an 
everyday starter if Fleury 
gets injured or does not perform. This long off-season 
and rushed preseason has 
done nothing to ease the 
concerns with Vokouns 
playing ability.
The primary off-season 
move for the Pens took place 
back during the summer. 
Third-line center James Staal was traded to the Carolina 
Hurricanes for a package including center Brandon Sutter. 
While Staal is a much 
better player, his desire for 
a larger contract combined 
with Pittsburghs well of talent at the center position led 
to the Pens decision to trade 
him in return for younger 
players and future draft 
picks. 
Sutter is a very good 
third-line center, but he 
could face problems if Malkin or Crosby gets injured 
and he is called on to ?ll in. 
He hasnt proven to be the 
most reliable player thus far.
Overall, the Pens plays 
are very similar to those of 
last year, distinguished by 
yet another high-scoring offense led by a front line of 
Malkin and forward James 
Neal, a solid above-average 
defense, and question marks 
in goal. 
Scoring has never been 
the Pens problem, and it 
seems unlikely to start now, 
especially with Malkin coming off winning the Art Ross 
trophy as the leagues scoring champion.
The teams offense should 
also be led by Crosby, who 
will play in his ?rst healthy 
season since dealing with 
lingering concussion symptoms that cost him the better part of the previous two 
seasons.
But while all that ?repower will carry Pittsburgh into 
the playoffs, how far they go 
will be placed solely at the 
hands of Fleury and Vokoun. 
Unless Fleury recaptures his 
old form or Vokoun starts 
playing as good as he has 
his whole career, the Pens 
are looking at another earlyround exit. 
This teams playoffs hope 
lives and dies with its goaltending. No matter how 
many times the offense can 
save, it will be fruitless if 
Fleury cannot stop the puck.
Womens basketball team struggles to keep lead in conference matches
ELIZABETH MARTIN
Junior Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon womens basketball team suffered 
two losses this past weekend: 
one to Emory University yesterday and again to the University of Rochester last Friday.
During a home double 
header, the University of 
Rochester Yellowjackets won 
in overtime 6760, making 
the Carnegie Mellon womens 
team record 105 overall and 
22 in University Athletic Association (UAA) play. 
Junior Jacquie Shaw 
proved to be a major asset 
for the game, scoring her career high total of 31 points 
throughout the game. 
After the ?rst seven minutes of the game, the Yellowjackets led 144. Carnegie 
Mellon gained more points, 
but not enough. At halftime, 
the score was 3415 in Rochesters favor. 
The Tartans scored 16 
points to almost tie the game 
4544, then Shaw led the 
team so that the Tartans were 
ahead 5048 with around ?ve 
minutes left. The University 
of Rochester womens team 
fought back, but Shaw proved 
herself once again and was 
able to even the score to 5555 
before overtime. During overtime, University of Rochesters 
player Loren Wagner gained 
the lead for the Yellowjackets, 
and teammate Jackie Walker 
extended the lead to the ?nal 
score of the game 6760. 
First-year Lindsay Poss was 
also a major player for Carnegie Mellon, scoring 10 points 
for the Tartans. 
Otto also put up a remarkable 13 rebounds in the game. 
Shaw re?ects that the weekend shows what were capable of and will only make us 
better.
Sundays game against 
Emory was constantly back 
and forth in the ?rst half, 
with Carnegie Mellon leading by as much as ?ve points. 
Senior Emily Peel, ?rst-year 
Liza Otto, and sophomore 
Chandler Cau?eld all helped 
cut point de?cits whenever 
the Tartans were down during 
the game.
The game proved to be a 
nail-biter. Emory led the entire second half, until sophomore Gabrielle West scored 
nine of her team-high 14 
points in the last two minutes 
to tie the game, only to be shot 
back to a ?nal score of 6664 
as Emorys Misha Jackson 
scored at the buzzer.
The two losses this past 
weekend put the Tartans record to 23 in the UAA conference and 106 overall. Over 
winter break, the team posted 
big wins against Westminster 
College, Chatham University, 
Case Western Reserve University, and Brandeis University.
The Tartans will take on 
Washington University in St. 
Louis next Friday at home at 
6 p.m.
Editors note: Gabrielle West 
is Sports Co-Editor for The 
Tartan.
Club water polo hopes to make splash
VINAY VISWANATHAN
Junior Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon Mens 
Water Polo Club team looks 
to make a splash this year by 
expanding their team and emphasizing team-building.
Last December, the squad 
represented the Mid-Atlantic 
Division at the 2012 National 
Collegiate Club Championship in Middlebury, Vt. 
First-year mechanical engineering and business administration double major Ted 
Warhoe, a utility player, said, 
We were just very happy to 
be there. Most other teams at 
nationals had a full team on 
the bench, when we only had 
one substitute.
Even without a full team, 
they exhibited a strong performance at the Mid-Atlantic 
Championships at Franklin 
& Marshall College, despite 
playing without any substitutes. 
Club president Willy Elmore, a junior civil and environmental engineering and 
engineering and public policy 
double major, said, Considering we were rebuilding, it 
was pretty awesome that we 
competed at the national level 
at the Division-III club tournament.
The team worked hard, attending three tournaments 
and the Division-III National 
Championship in the fall semester. 
With an overall record of 
56, the team posted big wins 
against Bloomsburg University of Pennsylvania, Grove City 
College, Lehigh University, 
and Franklin & Marshall College throughout the season. 
Looking forward into the 
spring, Elmore plans on expanding the size of the team, 
hopefully supplementing substitute players to the seven 
main positions in water polo.
Right now we dont have 
a whole lot of players and not 
a whole lot of subs at tournaments, and I want to go farther at the national tournament than we did this past 
year, Elmore said.
In terms of learning from 
the fall season, he said that he 
had no regrets, but hopes to 
improve team chemistry and 
thinking as a team.
Many of the players in the 
club come from backgrounds 
in high school water polo and 
competitive swimming, with 
some graduate students having played at the collegiate 
varsity level. 
One of these players is biomedical engineering graduate 
student Miki Silver, a current 
player in the hole set position 
whom the team is attempting 
to replace after his graduation 
this spring.
Anyone can come play, 
Silver said. All you need is a 
positive attitude and willingness to work hard.
The teams plan for the 
spring semester is to continue lifting, swimming, going 
through dry-land exercises, 
and having players improve 
their game by experimenting 
with different positions. 
The team only has the pool 
three times a week, but has 
already begun intense preparation and team-building for 
next season.
As a team we hang out on 
the weekend all the time and 
were a pretty close bunch of 
students. Its really more than 
a team, its a group of friends 
as well, Elmore said.
Warhoe agreed, We all 
support each other; we really 
are a family.
SPORTS COMMENTARYGoaltending is key to Pens success
ATHLETE PROFILEFirst-year Liza Otto brings points, positivity for team
ABBY SMITH
Sports Co-Editor
Although many would recognize her as the sweet, smiling 
?rst-year girl strolling around 
campus, few others know of Liza 
Ottos basketball prowess. 
Otto, despite being in the 
middle of what she calls the 
tough transition period to college basketball, has helped lead 
the Tartans womens basketball team to their best record in 
years, with an overall 106 record.
For the past 10 seasons, the 
best the Tartans have performed 
in the University Athletic Association (UAA) Conference has 
been 212 for the entire season, 
making their overall winning record so far a major accomplishment. 
Otto has been a top-contributing starter to the team, recently leading victories over Case 
Western University and Brandeis 
University. 
In Fridays game against the 
University of Rochester, Otto 
achieved a career-high 13 rebounds for the Tartans.
On Dec. 29 last year, Otto 
scored 12 points and 10 rebounds to achieve her second 
double-double of the season. 
Otto has been one of the 
teams most consistent top scorers this year, scoring 13 points in 
their most recent game.
She is currently ranked  in 
several categories in the UAA  
conference, which include total 
points, rebounding, assists, freethrow percentage, and blocked 
shots. 
Her teammates attribute her 
success to her positive attitude. 
Liza has a hard-working attitude and poise on the court, 
said senior captain Tori Baggio. 
Shes been such a positive 
force for the team so far, said 
sophomore teammate Chandler 
Cau?eld.  She is an integral part 
of our team.
Hailing from Glastonbury, 
Conn., Otto certainly has had 
experience with the sport of basketball.  
She has played since she was 
seven years old, and said she 
loves being part of a team with 
people that you can rely on and 
trust.
Otto is currently in the Bachelor of Humanities and Arts program. 
An architecture and psychology major, said she loves 
the Carnegie Mellon team because of team chemistry and 
that the program has provided 
[her] with stellar academics and 
a competitive level of basketball.
She said that although she 
was not sure what to expect 
coming into the season, knowing that the team was still 
growing and adjusting to a new 
coach, she has been surprised by 
the excellent teams level of success. Not only has Otto and the 
team had to adjust to the coaching staff, but Otto herself has 
switched positions several times 
this season, playing everything 
from forward to guard.
Otto has been humbled by 
[her] experience as a ?rst-year 
starter, but remains focused on 
the teams future goals.
I hope we can make it to 
the conference championships, 
Otto said. I really think that 
we can leave our mark this season.
Her teammates agree. This 
is the best weve done in the conference in a long time. We want 
to make a statement and show 
everyone that Carnegie Mellon 
is a new team and that were a 
force to be reckoned with, Baggio said. 
The new team hopes to celebrate itself by planning a summer trip to Europe, but for now, 
Otto and the Tartans will continue to work on improving their 
record and making the most 
out of this season.
Otto also emphasized the importance of the coaches in the 
teams success, and cited their 
efforts to make the season both 
rewarding and enjoyable. 
They help motivate us a lot, 
Otto said. The assistant coaches, Tiff and Sarah, even reward 
us for making good plays  by giving us socks!
Ottos positivity, fun spirit 
and true love for the game is illuminated by her hopes for the 
rest of the season. I think if we 
work hard enough, anything is 
possible, she said. Were just 
that kind of team.
Jonathan Leung/Assistant Photo Editor
Sophomore point guard Chandler Cau?eld drives to the basket. 
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor
I really think 
that we can leave 
our mark this 
season.
Liza Otto

---------------------------------------------------

DETOUR brings Poupon
The Pittsburgh collective makes a splash 
in the electronic music scene  B8
01.21.13 Volume 107, Issue 14

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
We have two new comics this week by our 
very own Carnegie Mellon students!
11
Paperhouse
Paperhouse talks about music remixes.5
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2013 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Jennifer Coloma EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Josh Smith
PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Laura Scherb COMICS EDITOR Kairavi Chahal
ART EDITOR Annette Ko PHOTO EDITOR Kate Groschner
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Kathryn Thomas
8
3465
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about dance 
moves and playing nice with roommates.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Fashion
Quick ways to integrate the fashion of your 
favorite celebrities into your wardrobe. 
3
Jeremy Kost
The Polaroid photographer presents an exhibit 
on the Pittsburgh drag scene.
7
Album review
Yo La Tengo releases Fade, an album that is 
just as musically rich as their previous ones. 
10
Yours Truly
The Carnegie Museum of Art features 
photographs that depict all kinds of love.
4
Devin Ilaw
CFA 07 grad discusses his success as an 
actor and performer in Les Misrables.
6
DETOUR 
A Pittsburgh music collective presents a 
Poupon concert event. 
8
Phipps
The Orchid and Tropical Bonsai Show is in full 
bloom.
5
Did You Know?
Did you know that some scientists predicted 
bananas would be extinct by today?
10
Puzzles
Take a look at the puzzles page and see if you 
can figure them out.
13
Horoscopes
Some advice for how to start off your semester 
right.
14
Calendar
Things to do this week on campus and in the 
community.
15
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents four movies this weekend in 
McConomy Auditorium.
7

---------------------------------------------------

fashion
pillbox 01.21.133
From the hills of LA to CMU
Celebrity fashion and how to incorporate it in your style
Finding yourself in a fashion rut? If youre uninspired 
by the fashion that surrounds you, a great way to 
find new ideas is to follow the style of the rich and 
famous. Celebrities are known for inspiring trends, 
and some are even defined by the way they dress.
The task of deciding which celebrities to imitate can 
seem daunting, since there are so many out there. 
This decision depends on your personal style. For 
some guidance, here is an overview of how three 
famous fashionistas dress and some tips on how to 
emulate their unique styles.
The first of these celebrities is a talented singer 
whose relationships are a constant focus not just for 
the media, but also for her music: Taylor Swift. Just 
as the genre of her music has been changing, Swifts 
style has evolved a great deal over the past couple 
of months. Although her outfits could initially be 
described as vaguely preppy and vintage-inspired, 
sometimes with a bohemian influence, she has 
learned to successfully combine these elements to 
create her own look.
She is commonly seen wearing stripes, in the form 
of navy and white dresses and tops. In fact, an outfit 
pictured on the Taylor Swift Style blog features a 
dress such as the one described, paired with kneehigh socks and oxfords.
Swift also seems to be a fan of sweaters, in styles 
ranging from the classic cable knit to the famous 
fox sweater that launched the quirky animals-onsweaters trend. She usually wears these sweaters 
with jeans or pleated skirts. Blazers, blouses with 
Peter Pan collars, and patterned tights and jeans 
are other clothing items that embody Swifts style. 
In terms of handbags, she is usually seen carrying a 
satchel.
Although she shares Swifts penchant for preppy 
style, Harry Potter actress Emma Watson has 
a collection that is slightly classier and more 
sophisticated. Her most recent outfits almost always 
feature a scarf thrown over a sweater, worn with 
jeans and a pair of ballet flats. Watson is also skilled 
at adapting her floral skirts and summer dresses for 
the winter by pairing them with warm sweaters, 
tights, and boots in darker colors.
She seems to have embraced the recent trend of 
wearing shorts with tights; she was seen wearing 
this combination with a striped T-shirt and ballet 
flats while leaving a Starbucks on a sunny day 
in March of last year. She often adds an edge to 
more basic outfits with a leather jacket, as seen on 
dresslikeemma.net.
The style of the edgier fashions of Swift and Watson 
may not appeal to everyone; some may prefer the 
stud and cutout trends that became popular last 
year. Although shes generally been off the radar 
since her dramatic haircut, Miley Cyrus is known 
for her edgy style. She tends to wear crop tops quite 
often, as seen on stealherstyle.net in which she pairs 
a gray cropped sweater with bright blue jeans, a 
varsity bomber jacket, and black Doc Martens.
Keeping with the edgy trend, a great deal of Cyrus 
outfits feature clothing embellished with studs and 
cutouts. She frequently incorporates graphic T-shirts 
or sweatshirts, as well as patterned leggings, as seen 
in pictures via Twitter that were also posted on the 
Steal Her Style website.
While celebrity style can be a great source of 
fashion inspiration, make sure you maintain some 
individuality. Mix and match the clothing items 
represented by the celebrity whose style inspires 
you for a look thats all your own. Start with a basic 
striped T-shirt, jeans, and add a pair of oxfords to 
make it in the style of Swift. To emulate Watsons 
style, switch the oxfords for ballet flats, and throw 
on a blazer and a scarf over the T-shirt. And finally, 
for fashion inspired by Cyrus, change your footwear 
again  this time in favor of Doc Martens  and 
swap the blazer and scarf for an oversized cardigan.
Nikita Mishra | Junior Staffwriter
Courtesy of sjdavidl via Flickr
Advice for awkward people
Dear Patrick,
I have two roommates 
 lets call them Sam 
and Bruce. Recently, 
Bruce claimed Sam 
is a more considerate 
roommate than I am. 
Thats a bunch of bull. Im 
very considerate. Im so 
considerate that I take a 
moment every couple of 
days just to stop and say 
to myself, Wow, that was 
really thoughtful of you. 
How can I make Bruce 
admit this? Sam has a 
smug look on his face. 
Thanks,
Requesting Opportunities 
Of Majorly Improving 
Esteem
Dear ROOMIE,
Were gonna get considerate 
all up in here. Order some 
delicious food, and then 
put it in some pots and 
pans so it looks like you just 
cooked it. Then say, Oh, 
hey Bruce. I made all this 
delicious food, and I cant 
eat it all myself. Would you 
like some? Still not enough? 
Wait until five minutes before 
he gets home, and then 
start vacuuming somewhere 
prominent. Oh, hey Bruce. 
Didnt see you there. I was 
just doing some of my 
weekly cleaning. Or, Oh, 
hey Bruce. I just got this 
Groupon to the strip club 
across the street. I have 
to do homework all night, 
but the coupon is expiring! 
Why dont you check it out 
and take all these singles 
with you? Instantly most 
considerate roommate.
Or just keep not being 
considerate. Thats a lot 
easier,
Patrick Hoskins
Dear Patrick,
Im a fan of going out 
to bars and dancing all 
night long. After so many 
years of dance lessons, I 
have some pretty sweet 
moves. The only problem 
is that the ladies seem to 
disagree. I break out my 
best moves, and they just 
head for the hills. Why 
dont they like my hip 
gyrations?
Thanks,
Lack Effortless Feet 
Tapping, Females Evading 
Every Time
Dear LEFT FEET,
Okay, lets start with the 
basics. Step to your left, 
then your right. Repeat. 
Now, form fists with your 
hands and extend your 
pointer fingers. Wave them 
around in the air. If you want 
to mix it up, try holding a 
beer in one hand. If youre 
feeling crazy, you can close 
your eyes and wave your 
head around, and if youre 
limber enough, bounce in 
the air a little bit.
Once youve gotten 
everyones attention, its 
time to start dancing 
with someone. First, find 
someone you like. Then, 
awkwardly sidle up to them. 
Avoid eye contact at all 
costs. That way, you come 
off as mysterious. If things 
are going well, then dance 
around them in a circle like a 
leprechaun around his pot of 
gold. Guaranteed success; it 
never fails.
Actually it fails a lot,
Patrick Hoskins
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org. 
About roommates and sweet dance moves
Taylor Swifts style is usually a mix of preppy, 
vintage-inspired, and bohemian-inspired looks. 

---------------------------------------------------

4art
pillbox 01.21.13
To celebrate their parents wedding anniversary, people 
will usually take them out to dinner or give them a 
gift. But artist William T. Hillman decided to go a step 
further: He sponsored Yours Truly: Privately Collected 
Photographs, a photography exhibit at the Carnegie 
Museum of Art, in honor of his parents 67th wedding 
anniversary.
The exhibit is a collection of some of the ?nest vintage 
photographic prints by some of the most admired 
photographers in the history of the medium, according 
to an introduction by the museums director, Lynn 
Zelevansky, in a pamphlet provided to visitors. Indeed, 
the photographs are beautiful, and the clean design of 
the exhibit allows them to speak for themselves.
Unlike most exhibits, which have small plaques or 
labels accompanying each piece, these photographs 
only have small, nearly unnoticeable numbers quietly 
identifying them; visitors who want to know the title 
or photographer for each piece can check the provided 
pamphlet. That curatorial choice means that the true 
focus becomes neither the photographers nor the 
historical signi?cance of the works, but rather the 
photographs themselves and the message of love that 
most of them convey.
Near the entrance to the exhibit, for instance, Herb 
Ritts Fred and Tatjana 3, Guadalupe (1988) hangs next 
to Danny Lyons Uptown (Young Couple) (1965). The 
former is a sharp, close shot of a couple cavorting on 
the beach, wherein every grain of sand is visible on the 
couples bodies as Fred kisses an enraptured Tatjana.
In contrast with this steamy affair in paradise, Uptown 
(Young Couple) features a far more ordinary scene. It 
shows a young couple at a home full of everyday knickknacks, the womans hair still in curlers as the man leans 
in for a kiss. The pairing of the two photos creates a nice 
juxtaposition between the two types of love and reminds 
the viewer that everyday, domestic love is by no means 
less romantic or important than an island affair.
But to anyone reluctant about visiting an exhibit 
?lled with image after image of embracing couples, 
fear not: As Zelevansky writes, [The photographs] 
comprise a meditation on the nature of love in its many 
forms. While romantic love may be the main focus 
of the exhibit, there are several different forms of love 
represented. Familial love takes center stage in Mother 
and Daughter, Brighton Beach, New York (1985) by 
Rosalind Solomon, and Summer, the Lower East Side 
(1937) by Weegee (Arthur Fellig) captures pure joy as 
gleeful children play in the spray from a ?re hydrant.
There are some photographs that deviate from 
expressing any sort of love. Some work as a way to 
contextualize the other photographs: In one set of 
photographs, images of soldiers kissing their girlfriends 
goodbye at Penn Station in New York alternate with 
urban images of New York City from approximately the 
same time period. In another grouping of photographs, 
two landscape images help balance out images of people 
outside at the beach.
For a few of the photographs, the lack of accompanying 
explanatory text becomes problematic, as it was unclear 
as to why the photographs had been included in the 
exhibit. Baby Beaton, Wanda Baille-Hamilton, Lady 
Bridget Poulett (1920) by Cecil Walter Hardy Beaton 
portrays three women surrounded by what appear to be 
balloons, with no discernible connection to the exhibits 
theme.
However, these inexplicable deviations are, in the end, 
a minor ?aw in an otherwise beautifully organized 
exhibit. Perhaps the most powerful examples of the 
exhibits message are the images selected to bookend 
the exhibit. The ?rst photograph at the entrance of Yours 
Truly, Paris 1949 New Year by Robert Frank, shows 
a man holding a single tulip behind his back, ignoring 
passersby as he waits to surprise someone with the 
?ower.
The exhibits last photograph is the only color photo in 
Yours Truly and the only image from the 21st century. Its 
a framed copy of the Dec. 1, 2012 issue of the New York 
Times. The front page features a photograph by Brennan 
Linsley, in which a returning soldier ?ercely kisses his 
tearful wife, their 14-month-old daughter looking on.
Anticipation in 1949, joyful reunion in 2012: There is 
no better way to prove that, as Hillman writes at the 
beginning of the exhibit, True love is eternal.
Anna Walsh | Contributing Editor
Yours Truly: Privately Collected Photographs will show at 
the Carnegie Museum of Art through March 10.
Yours Truly explores many faces of love
Carnegie Museum of Art photography exhibit showcases images of passion, joy, devotion
Anna Walsh | Contrbuting Editor
Yours Truly: Privately Collected Photographs at the Carnegie Museum of Art examines love in its varying forms.
Anna Walsh | Contributing Editor
The closing piece of the exhibit shows the only photo 
in color and from the 21st century. 

---------------------------------------------------

community
pillbox 01.21.135
Paperhouse
On Remixes
Over winter break, one of my friends downloaded a bunch 
of one-hit wonders. It did not take long, however, to ?nd 
that someone decided that gems such as Who Let the 
Dogs Out? and Cotton-Eyed Joe needed remixes.
These remixes were not just bad  there was also no 
new perspective gained from listening to them. There 
was barely anything about the songs that was altered; 
hi-hats, bass, and synths were simply added on top of the 
songs with some minor equalizer manipulation. It was the 
musical equivalent of using Microsoft Paint to do photo 
manipulation.
Good remixes have a lot in common with good song 
covers: They maintain the most essential aspects of 
the song, provide a new perspective, and show an 
appreciation of the source material. For example, I was 
never a fan of Lady Gagas Yo and I. However, after 
hearing Wild Beasts remix of it, I changed my opinion.
Wild Beasts remix stripped away almost every element 
of the song, leaving a vocal loop of Lady Gaga singing, 
This time we made love / This time baby you and I, 
over sampled loops taken directly from the song. The 
only addition the band makes is singer Hayden Thorpe 
moaning over parts of the song. The two layers of the 
song could not sound any more different. Wild Beasts 
stripped away the theatricality, the radio-pop polish, and 
the schmaltzy country-rock ballad feel. They left listeners 
with the soul of the song: sexual longing and the torture of 
being separated from a loved one.
Its easy to discredit remixes as a legitimate art form 
because its not terribly dif?cult to make one. But artistic 
vision is necessary to make a remix worth listening to. 
Although there are enough mediocre dubstep remixes 
of pop songs to make one lose faith in remix culture, its 
important to remember that if you just keep looking hard 
enough, youll probably ?nd a remix that will remind you 
why you started looking for them in the ?rst place.
Matt Mastricova | Staffwriter
top 10 on WRCT 88.3 FM
most played albums of the last week
Tim Maia  World Psychedelic Classics 4
Black Moth Super Rainbow  Cobra Juicy
Various Artists  Iron Atrocity Vol. 2 
The Two Man Gentlemen Band  Two At A Time
Tame Impala  Lonerism 
The Raveonettes Observator
Nous Non Plus  Le Sexe et la Politique
David Naiditch  Douce Ambiance: Gypsy Jazz Classics
Nadja Dagdrom 
Metz  Metz
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Phipps presents vibrant show
Orchid and bonsai tree exhibit informs and captivates
Trunk splitters, root hooks, and concave cutters, oh 
my! The Orchid and Tropical Bonsai Show, which 
opened Jan. 12 at Phipps Conservatory, offers guests 
the chance to do much more than just observe 
orchids and bonsai trees. The exhibit includes 
information on the history and location of these 
plants, the science and techniques behind how they 
are grown, and opportunities to grow your own at 
Phipps.
Bonsai is the Japanese art of training small trees 
to take on the shape and style of their larger 
counterparts that occur in nature. The word bonsai 
can be broken down into bon, which means tray 
or lowsided pot, and sai, which means a plant 
or plantings. These miniature trees emulate some 
trees that have spent hundreds of years in the wind, 
and others that stand upright with twisting, farreaching, above-ground roots.
The Sunken Garden room is ?lled with a variety of 
miniature bonsai trees, including the willow ?g leaf, 
Japanese pittosporum, and Chinese banyan, among 
many others. The small trees all look vastly different 
and give guests the chance to see different styles 
of bonsai trees up close. Bonsai artists in the area 
worked on some of the trees, other trees were gifts 
to Phipps, and some were used in previous exhibits. 
The variation in size, style, age, and technique 
makes exploring the room both educational and 
entertaining. The ?nal part of the exhibit explains 
the basics of bonsai, such as what tools are used and 
how the trees are made to look the way they do.
The orchids in the show are spread far and wide 
throughout Phipps. Some are integrated into 
existing exhibits in the form of hanging baskets and 
small planters. Others are planted directly into the 
exhibits, along with informational and educational 
placards to teach guests more about these brightly 
colored plants. For example, did you know that 
orchids grow on every continent except Antarctica? 
Or that they are the largest and most varied family of 
?owering plants in the world? Or that there are over 
30,000 known species of orchids?
Laboratory equipment is on display in order to show 
patrons how the plants are engineered to have 
different colors, be different sizes, or even bloom in 
different shapes. The combination of home-grown 
and lab-grown orchids exposes guests to a wide 
variety of the plants in many different contexts. 
The bright pinks, purples, and yellows of the orchids 
juxtapose nicely with the rich greens and browns of 
the bonsai trees. Just as the colors complement each 
other, so do the different techniques for growing 
each type of plant.
The choice to combine these two exhibits into 
one show makes for an educational and visually 
appealing stroll through Phipps Conservatory. And 
should either art form interest you, the classes 
for growing bonsai and tips for growing orchids 
offer guests the chance to engage more fully with 
the exhibit. Overall, the show has something to 
offer everyone  be it gardening tips, scienti?c 
exploration, or just the opportunity to admire 
beautiful plants.
Catherine Spence | Staffwriter 
The Orchid and Tropical Bonsai Show is on display 
at Phipps Conservatory through Feb. 24.
Catherine Spence | Junior Photographer
The Orchid and Tropical Bonsai Show at Phipps Conservatory features a vibrant display of orchids.

---------------------------------------------------

6theater
pillbox 01.21.13
For the professional actor, its rare and exciting to ?nd 
a role that unites both commercial and artistic success. 
But Carnegie Mellon alumnus Devin Ilaw (CFA 07) 
believes hes found that role.
Since graduating with a BFA in acting and musical 
theatre in 2007, Ilaw has landed a couple of major gigs, 
playing Thuy in Miss Saigon and appearing on Late 
Night with Conan OBrien.
But his role as Marius in the PNC Broadway Across 
America tour of Les Misrables, which is now playing 
at the Benedum Center in Pittsburgh, is by far the most 
signi?cant.
Thomas Douglas, Ilaws former vocal coach and an 
associate teaching professor of voice at Carnegie Mellon, 
had con?dence in him from the onset. While working 
with Ilaw on a School of Drama project, it was clear 
to me then, that he was a very special young man, 
Douglas said in an email. Im not at all surprised to hear 
of his varied successes in the professional world.
As an actor on a Broadway tour, Ilaw must undertake 
a daunting task every time he arrives in a new city. 
According to him, the actors on tour never have time to 
rehearse in the theater where they actually perform  
aside from the sound check that occurs only two hours 
before the show.
Surprisingly, Ilaw is able to take this challenge in stride. 
Its less nerve-wracking, he said in an interview. Its 
more that you learn to trust the people around you. Trust 
your show, trust the theater.
The traditional Broadway favorite has recently garnered 
even more attention because of last months release 
of the ?lm adaptation. Les Misrables tells the story 
of criminal-turned-mayor Jean Valjean and his efforts 
to evade the pursuit of a vindictive policeman, set 
against the tragic backdrop of the French Revolution. 
In the Broadway Across America production, Ilaw plays 
Marius, a young revolutionary who falls in love with 
Valjeans adoptive daughter.
Despite having spent more than ?ve years in the 
professional acting business, Ilaw still attributes many 
of the skills he uses onstage to his School of Drama 
education. The program is so grueling, it teaches you to 
be everything and anything, he said. It taught me how 
to be an artist. Malleability as an actor is a fundamental 
skill he learned at Carnegie Mellon and continues to use 
in his pursuits as a professional actor.
Ilaw uses those skills every time he gets onstage to keep 
his performances fresh and interesting for his audience. 
But breathing life into each performance isnt just for 
the audiences sake. For Ilaw, its crucial that actors 
continuously engage with their roles: As an artist, you 
dont want to be bored.
Ilaw further underscored the importance of constant 
discovery for young actors. Make new discoveries all 
the time, he urged. Part of the wonder of interacting 
with fellow actors, Ilaw said, is not only making 
discoveries about yourself, but also seeing new qualities 
in other actors. Try to ?nd those epiphanies, he said  
then, correcting himself: Try to allow the epiphanies to 
happen.
Ilaw believes the best epiphanies happen when the true 
qualities of an actor shine through in a performance. He 
prides himself in particular on always bringing myself 
to a role  ?nding elements of me in a character. In this 
way, Ilaw urges young actors to be true to yourself  
to allow personal qualities to emerge both onstage and 
off, whether in character or not.
However, Ilaw doesnt rely solely on himself for guidance 
in a role. In his role as Marius, he draws heavily from the 
Victor Hugo novel, upon which the musical is based, for 
inspiration and af?rmation. He carries a brown, worn, 
leather-bound notebook ?lled with quotes from the book 
and other notes, which he occasionally pulls out for 
reference. I always go back to the book, he said.
Although Ilaw is proud of certain aspects of his work, 
he still strives to challenge himself in other areas. As 
an artist, Ilaw said, Its hard to be happy with your 
work. While to an extent, Ilaw does consider himself a 
perfectionist, he recognizes the need for imperfection 
in acting: Perfection is not interesting. Just as a 
characters ?aws in a play or musical compel the 
audience, an actors imperfections add variety and 
spice onstage. Moving forward, Ilaws goals are simple: 
Stay positive, stay happy, and keep myself artistically 
challenged.
Looking to the future, he is casually optimistic; rather 
than pointing to speci?c career goals, Ilaw said he 
cant wait to see where the path is going to lead  
emphasizing that I often let the path lead me.
And overall, Ilaw is happy  especially with his current 
role in Les Misrables. Commercial success doesnt 
equal artistic success, but the hope is that they come 
together, Ilaw said. Les Mis really is it.
Rachel Cohen | Pillbox Editor
CFA alum ?nds sweet success in Les Mis
Devin Ilaws role in Broadway Across America tour combines artistic and commercial success
Kate Groschner | Photo Editor
Devin Ilaw, an alumus of Carnegie Mellons School 
of Drama, is back in Pittsburgh as part of Broadway 
Across Americas production of Les Misrables.
Despite more than ?ve years in the professional acting business, Ilaw 
still attributes many of the skills he uses onstage to his School of 
Drama education. The program is so grueling, it teaches you to be 
everything and anything.

---------------------------------------------------

art
pillbox 01.21.137
Most of you probably remember the Polaroid camera: 
the little box with a lens on top that, when you clicked 
the button, spat out a little white card that hip-hop 
duo Outkast liked to shake a little bit before an image 
magically appeared. It was a popular, easy-to-use device 
that would eventually be phased out by the development 
of digital photography and mostly forgotten by the 
public. But artist Jeremy Kost is one person whose 
Polaroid camera isnt sitting in a mountain of trash 
alongside your dads Sony Walkman and VHS copies of 
Beauty and the Beast.
Over the past few years, Kost has made a name for 
himself with his Polaroid camera, snapping images of 
everything from New York nightlife to celebrities and 
fashion models. For his ?rst solo museum exhibit titled 
Friends With Bene?ts, which is on display at The Andy 
Warhol Museum, Kost turned his little box with a lens on 
top to a group of Pittsburgh drag performers.
Almost exclusively displayed through Polaroid 
photograph collages, the exhibit is truly something 
else. The use of Polaroid images makes each photo feel 
distinctly human. Kosts lens captures joy and sorrow, 
con?dence and insecurity, and the undercurrent of anger 
in the eyes and faces of those he photographs.
Kosts photos raise questions on the nature of gender, 
beauty, and identity, and explore how mainstream 
America treats those who are different. The piece 
Mirror, Mirror, which depicts two drag queens in full 
makeup in front of a stone wall topped with barbed 
wire, illustrates the division in America regarding 
these ideas and the wall that is put up between the 
opposing viewpoints. A video in the exhibit depicts 
two performers going through their pre-show routine, 
applying the layers of mascara and wigs required 
for them to become their other selves. Or are they 
transforming from someone else into someone they really 
are?
Among these pieces of art, one gets a sense of the 
?uidity of sexuality and beauty and the looseness of 
these terms. Kost sees a beauty in these people who 
must turn to each other because no one else wants 
them. Underneath the painted faces and corsets, one 
can see that drag queens are just people with their own 
ideas about beauty and gender  people who believe 
that they are free to form their own identity.
The centerpiece of the exhibit, titled Friends With 
Bene?ts (Communing With Andy), is a large collage 
that encompasses nearly an entire wall of the room 
and depicts a number of the drag performers collected 
around the grave of Andy Warhol. Kost  who is 
frequently compared to Warhol and counts the pop art 
innovator as a major in?uence  may be making a 
statement in the spirit of his predecessor: Life comes in 
many colorful forms, as illustrated by the colorful drag 
queens against a backdrop of gray headstones and dying 
grass. Kost seems to say that we should celebrate this 
diversity rather than forcing everyone into drab, gray 
uniformity.
Kosts camera captures these outsiders, who at ?rst 
look almost twisted and macabre, with great humanity 
and understanding. This affection prompts viewers 
to remember that, underneath it all, the subjects of all 
of Kosts photographs are just people who want to be 
whoever they want to be.
Joey Peiser | Junior Staffwriter
Friends With Bene?ts is on display at The Andy Warhol 
Museum through Sunday.
Friends With Bene?ts captures colorful sentiments
Artist Jeremy Kost channels the spirit of Andy Warhol in exhibit at Warhol Museum
Matthew Zurcher | Staffwriter
End of Watch is one of the more thrilling 
cop ?lms released in recent years. 
Jake Gyllenhaal and Michael Pea star 
in this portrait of two buddies in the 
LAPD. Writer and director David Ayer is 
probably best known for The Fast and 
the Furious and Training Day, but End of 
Watch proves to be his most impressive 
project. Gyllenhaal and Pea play patrol 
of?cers who get tangled up in some 
nasty South Central gang violence.
End of Watch
Thursday, Jan. 24
8 10 12
Argo
Saturday, Jan. 26
8 10 12
Ben Af?eck chooses some ?ashy Oscar 
bait for his third directorial feature. After 
turning in some legitimately impressive 
work with Gone Baby Gone and The 
Town, Af?eck directs and stars in Argo, 
a thoughtless but intense political 
thriller. The movie is loosely based 
on the Canadian Caper, a historical 
event during which the CIA faked a 
Hollywood production to extract six 
near-hostages from revolutionary Iran. 
The ?lm succeeds in direct proportion 
to how much it follows history, ?nding 
great moments in its outlandish, stylish 
suspense but failing when trying to milk 
the relevance cow.
To Be Heard
Friday, Jan. 25
6
In lieu of running an AB Films selection, 
the English department has organized 
a screening of To Be Heard, the debut 
documentary from Edwin Martinez. 
According to the Carnegie Mellon 
University Lecture Series website, To 
Be Heard follows the life journey of three 
best friends who met in a high school 
poetry class in the Bronx, and make a 
pact to always support each other. Yet, 
when everything starts to go wrong and 
the road toward their childhood dreams 
becomes more perilous than ever, their 
hopes for the future and the strength of 
their friendship are put to the ultimate 
test.
The Good Shepherd
Sunday, Jan. 27
6 9 12
Ben Af?ecks buddy, Matt Damon, stars 
in The Good Shepherd, another (albeit 
very different) story that misattributes 
several things to the CIA. Damon 
turns in a spectacular performance 
in this muddy historical tracing of the 
CIA. However historically dubious it 
may be, Robert De Niros direction 
makes The Good Shepherd a top-shelf 
political thriller for the ?rst hour. The 
script eventually bogs itself down in the 
fathers-failing-sons metaphor, but still 
maintains a solid level of juice. The ?lm 
is worth it for Damons performance 
alone, which is possibly the ?nest of his 
career.
dollarmovie
McConomy Auditorium, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

Pittsburgh has a rich legacy of music. From trumpeter 
Roy Eldridge to Poisons Bret Michaels, the Steel 
City has been the birthplace of in?uential artists in a 
spectrum of musical genres.
Through music collectives like VIA, Humanaut, Obvious, 
and now DETOUR, that legacy has endured and taken 
electronic dance music (EDM) under its wing. Although 
these groups are distinct, they work toward a collective 
goal: to revitalize the citys music scene and rede?ne 
how its people party.
DETOUR, the newest music collective, aims to bring 
cutting-edge house and techno music to its peers while 
exploring the intersection of sight and sound. The 
group is comprised of six individuals, most of whom 
are or were Carnegie Mellon students and all of whom 
are involved in Carnegie Mellons radio station WRCT. 
These music enthusiasts are eager to expose their fellow 
classmates to new music in a safe space.
There was no de?nite start, Azis said. We were all 
members of the [WRCT] radio station and were throwing 
regular parties for that, but we were limited to the CMU 
market. Pittsburgh is a rising star in music and techno in 
particular, and we wanted to be a part of that.
DETOURs intent is to bring house and techno to a 
college student audience  democratizing the techno 
scene, as Azis put it. At the same time, the group wants 
to connect the younger generation with older audiences. 
Humanaut, for instance, draws a big audience but 
largely plays at 21-and-over venues, and that really 
frustrated me as an underage student, Azis said.
While he was banned from the 21-and-over crowd as 
an underclassman, Azis and longtime friend Alex Price 
found solace in swanky techno-themed house parties 
at their loft. With great titles like Shut the Fuck Up: A 
Forest Techno Party, and Nocturne: A Winter Solstice 
Gathering and excellent music, the parties were a 
success.
Wanting to create a space where those ages 18 and 
over could enjoy electronic music, DETOUR decided to 
collaborate with VIA. Lauren Goshinski, VIA co-founder 
and director and marketing and communications 
manager in the Carnegie Mellon School of Art, allowed 
the group to host parties at the new VIA-operated event 
space on 6119 Penn Ave. Lauren Goshinski has really 
helped us by letting us have the space for parties, Azis 
said. She just wants Pittsburgh to have a great time.
Although the space is farther away from the Carnegie 
Mellon campus than many students would venture for a 
show, Azis says, The space is a ?lter. If you can get to 
it, that means you really want to be there. Because 6119 
Penn Ave. is technically an event space, it has no of?cial 
closing time; in fact, a few DETOUR parties have gone 
on until 4 a.m.
The groups latest event, titled Poupon in honor of the 
featured DJ of the evening, was held on Saturday and 
ran from 9:30 p.m. to about 3 a.m.
Poupon, a DJ and producer native to Toronto, headlined 
the event and played to a lively crowd from midnight to 
the close of the show. Sitting on an orange couch in the 
back-room reserved for staff, wearing black jeans, a black 
T-shirt, and slicked back hair, Poupon explained the 
reason behind his name.
My mom has a cousin whos nickname is Poupon; in 
French its sort of like a nickname that means babyface, 
Poupon said. When I was deciding what to call myself, 
I was taking a ferry to Toronto Island and I saw a boat 
that was named Poupon. It made me think of my moms 
cousin, and yknow Im a big food guy too so I just 
thought Id go for it. Looking back I probably would have 
picked a different name, but Im kind of stuck with it 
now.
If audience members didnt have an af?nity for mustard 
before Poupons set, they most certainly did afterward. 
With Sharon Rubin and Chloe Lula opening for Poupon 
and Ben Tapas working the visuals, the crowds energy 
stayed high the entire night.
A lot of clubs in the U.S. have a highly chauvinistic 
atmosphere; you go there to hook up or get 
feature
pillbox 01.21.1398feature
pillbox 01.21.13
DETOUR hosts DJ Poupon to expose college students to electronic music scene
Pittsburgh music collective includes Carnegie Mellon students and alumni, WRCT members, and avid music enthusiasts
                  Courtesy of Kathryn Thomas
by Christa Hester | Contributing Editor[]drunk, Azis said. With the loft parties and now with 
DETOUR, weve tried to dispel that atmosphere. At 
DETOUR, people are respectful when they party, and 
that has something to do with the space, the culture of 
the city, and the music.
Poupon, who has been DJing since 2006, agreed that 
the atmosphere of a space can make or break a show. I 
started at house parties like these guys, started playing 
at parties and getting booked at clubs, and if the crowd 
is there with an open mind, itll be a great show, 
Poupon said. The ideal crowd is one where you can play 
a whole set of songs that they dont know and theyll still 
dance just as hard as if they did know them. Ive played 
at some bottle service clubs and its packed, but people 
arent interested. Everyones in their own little world: 
Theyre on their phones or trying to pick up a chick at 
the bar. Theyre not actually there for the music.
Using the 6119 Penn Ave. space, DETOUR has tried 
to make each party it throws unique. The group ?nds 
an artist to create different visuals for each show, 
projecting the images or movies behind the DJ. The 
thing with more conventional clubs is you walk in 
and its essentially the same party every week, just a 
different DJ, Poupon said. So I really like spaces that 
are multifunctional and dont have a static design and 
dcor.
Tabas, a University of Pittsburgh alumnus with degrees 
in ?lm, philosophy, and poetry, created the unusual 
triangle screens that hung behind the DJs at this 
Saturdays DETOUR event. Im really bored with the 
idea of the screen  I think it engenders a passive 
viewership, Tabas said. For the Poupon show I wanted 
to shatter the screen and create a more engaging, 
jarring environment with video. We created a grid of 
triangles to look like the broken glass of a screen. I want 
the audience to think differently about the capacities of 
video  it doesnt have to just be a square screen.
The ?uidity that each DETOUR show strives for allows 
people to experience something new: an awesome DJ 
they havent heard before or a visual installation that 
makes them think differently about viewership and the 
capacities of video, Tabas said. Thats whats really 
exciting about DETOUR, how fresh and innovative it is. 
Every event will look new and fresh.
Although DETOUR is still in the beginning stages, 
the group has big plans for its future in Pittsburgh. 
Juan and I have been really interested in transitioning 
DETOUR into our own record label, Azis said. Its 
ambitious and would take time to incubate, but we 
would like it to become a platform for people to make 
music in Pittsburgh. In the next six months or so, were 
going to have a lot of events coming up, a couple cobranded with VIA and maybe Humanaut.
Find out more about DETOUR via their Facebook 
page at https://www.facebook.com/pages/
DETOUR/254481864571260?fref=ts.
Check out Poupon at http://www.callmepoupon.com/.
Editors Note: Chloe Lula is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
WRCT DJ and sophomore science and medical communications major Chloe Lula opened for Poupon on Saturday 
night along with fellow WRCT DJ and junior architecture major Sharon Rubin.
Courtesy of Kathryn Thomas
DJ Poupon performed at 6119 on Saturday night as a result of DETOURs newest effort to bring lesser-known 
electronic music to a college-age crowd.
This DETOUR handbill advertises Saturday nights 
concert featuring Toronto-based DJ Poupon.
Courtesy of Kathryn Thomas

Pittsburgh is a rising star in music and techno in particular, and 
we wanted to be a part of that.
 Mirko Azis
 WRCT DJ and Carnegie Mellon senior    
 design major
The DETOUR crew
Alex Price, an IBM consultant, Carnegie   
Mellon alumnus (TSB 12), and general manager 
of WRCT, goes by Mr. Sensitivity when DJing and 
currently plays a lot of U.K. bass and house music. 
Chloe Lula, a sophomore technical writing major, 
produces at WRCT and DJs tech house and techno. 
Juan Lafontaine, a WRCT community DJ and 
one of the founders of SwitchboardPGH, goes by DJ 
Gusto and plays deep house and disco. 
Mirko Azis, a senior design major, comes from a 
techno background and favors harder, darker, more 
unforgiving music when DJing.
Naeem Martinez-White, a digital art studio intern 
at Carnegie Mellon, plays tech house, straight house, 
and disco. 
Sharon Rubin, a junior architecture major, is the 
newest member of DETOUR and goes by DJ Shrubs.

---------------------------------------------------

10community
pillbox 01.21.13
After 27 years of music making, there is really only 
one question that accompanies the release of a new 
Yo La Tengo album: Will this be the Yo La Tengo that 
thrives in guitar freak-outs and stylistic eclecticism, 
or the Yo La Tengo that meticulously crafts gentle, 
quiet, introspective love songs? Regarding Fade, Yo 
La Tengos 13th album, the answer is a lot less trivial 
than it initially appears.
On ?rst listen, Fade seems to fall into the latter 
category. The album as a whole radiates serenity, 
even on the energetic high-point song Well You 
Better. Probably the tightest song on the album, 
it features almost-laconic sounding vocals from Ira 
Kaplan, perseverating on relationship issues over a 
looping rhythm section and off-kilter wah-wahs. 
Songs like Ill Be Around and Two Trains most 
wholly capture the same hushed, late-night-car-ride 
atmosphere that Yo La Tengo has been channeling 
since the release of And Then Nothing Turned Itself 
Inside-Out.
Its tempting to simply call Fade the logical 
successor to And Then Nothing and Summer Sun, 
but frankly its not. The stylistic assimilation and 
subtle instrumentation changes in Fade signal not 
simply a retread of the bands post-2000 output, but 
an integration of the soft Yo La Tengo with the loud 
Yo La Tengo.
This can be seen from the very beginning of the 
album. Ohm begins with a percussive groove 
before Kaplan begins singing and adding in some 
reverbed guitar. Over the course of the song, the 
amount of feedback and noise gradually builds 
before becoming the most prevalent aspect of the 
song, which transforms not only the sound of the 
song but the implications of the lyrics. The phrase 
So say good night to me / And lose no more time / 
No time / Resisting the ?ow is repeated throughout 
the sonic dissonance. The signi?cance changes from 
narrative to an anchor of familiarity in the midst of 
an ever-changing soundscape.
Unfortunately, Fade does not feature any of the longform experimental tracks that have been a hallmark 
of the Yo La Tengo sound, which is part of the 
reason that this is the bands shortest release since 
Fakebook in the 1990s. The noisy, extended jams of 
the bands earlier albums were always captivating 
and rarely bloated. While the absence of these longer 
trackers from Fade is more than a bit disappointing, 
the focus on shorter, more self-contained songs has 
resulted in one of the indie stalwarts most cohesive, 
consistent albums to date.
Fade is much like Dinosaur Jr.s I Bet on Sky and The 
Mountain Goats Transcendental Youth in that there 
are no real surprises here. That is not only okay, but 
almost preferable. Yo La Tengo may have passed its 
creative apex, but the quality of its music has not 
decreased. This album is Yo La Tengo at the most 
comfortable its ever been with itself, and the fact 
that the band is still making enjoyable and exciting 
music after 27 years is venerable.
Even though this band was a key factor in shaping 
indie rock and the culture of college radio stations, 
it has never broken through to the mainstream. You 
probably wont hear any of the albums songs on the 
radio, but the legacy of the band that made it will 
outlast most any other artist currently making music.
Matt Mastricova | Staffwriter
Fade upholds bands quality
Yo La Tengo continues legacy with new album
Yo La Tengo scaled back on the longer, experimental tracks in its new album, Fade.
Courtesy of elboomsonico via FlickrCatherine Spence | Staffwriter
Did you know?
100years ago
Jan. 2, 1913
The deans opening statement at a 
school-wide assembly was, The great 
question is not whether ours is better 
or worse than other schools, but is it 
the best that we can make it....There 
is the Cornell type, the MIT type. What 
is to be the Carnegie type? So 100 
years later, what has the Carnegie 
type become?
50years ago
Jan. 9, 1963
An editorial article argues that 
professors should empathize more with 
their students when scheduling exams, 
complaining that the result may be 
three or even four exams in one day, 
and none receives the students best 
work. Luckily, this degree of examtaking seems less common today.
25years ago
Jan. 19, 1988
The registrars office sent an envelope 
from 5000 Forbes Ave. to Morewood 
Gardens. The letter was returned 
with a request from the post office to 
include the country of destination, in 
English, with no abbreviations.
10years ago
Jan. 20, 2003
A SciTech brief quotes scientist Emile 
Frison, who warns, bananas may 
disappear within the next 10 years 
due to their lack of genetic diversity. 
Bananas are one of the go-to side 
choices for blocks, so lets be glad 
they have survived despite Frisons 
prediction.
5years ago
Jan. 21, 2008
Jennifer Gooch, a graduate student in 
the School of Art, created a website 
on which pictures of lost gloves from 
all over Pittsburgh could be posted, in 
the hopes that the missing glove could 
be reunited with its owner. Perhaps 
we should try using this system for 
Carnegie Mellon ID cards.
1year ago
Jan. 23, 2012
Campus police had a busy week of 
suspicious persons and marijuana. A 
man in a fedora was spotted in the 
womens restroom in Hunt, a homeless 
man tried to enter the Software 
Engineering Institute, and three 
citations were given to students who 
admitted to smoking marijuana.

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 01.21.1311
poorlydrawnlines.com
Poorly Drawn Lines by Reza Farazmand
poorlydrawnlines@gmail.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 01.21.13
Sittin on the Fence by Charlie Shulman and Kairavi Chahal
cshulman@andrew.cmu.edu
Crinkled Comics by Juan Fernandez
crinkledcomics.comjjfernan@andrew.cmu.edu
thedoghousediaries.comdoghousediaries@gmail.com
Columbus by Doghouse Diaries

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 01.21.1313
Solutions from December 3, 2012
CrosswordKakuro EasySudoku Medium
Kakuro Puzzle: EasySudoku Puzzle: Medium
Sudoku courtesy of www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/
sudokugen/Kakuro courtesy of www.krazydad.com
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue on its top. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 01.21.13
1. Kind of prof.
2. Rose
3. Dense
4. Hall of fame
5. Cry ___ River
6. Singer Sheena
7. Greek portico
8. Chuck
9. Brandos birthplace
10. Sun Devils sch.
11. Edge
12. Taxi
15. Dangerous snakes
20. Kiss
21. Baseball stat
23. Commedia dell___
25. Nick of Lorenzos Oil
26. Love affair
27. Stuffing herb
29. Type of sanctum
30. Doves sound
32. Martinique volcano
33. Listened
35. Like wet ink
37. Trent of the Senate
39. Not in
40. Abominable snowman
43. Playful
46. Sharp-sighted
48. Penguins septentrional counterpart
50. Morals
52. Flat-topped hills
54. Chilly
55. Wingless insect
57. Account
58. Ships company
60. Afternoon affairs
61. Skater Babilonia
62. Curved bone
63. Before
65. Lady of Sp.
1. Indian state
6. This, in Tijuana
10. Rainbow shape
13. Grocery, e.g.
14. Tiny particle
15. Bhutans continent
16. March man
17. Cubs slugger Sammy
18. Stupid
19. Drink to excess
20. Stored away
22. Electric generator
24. Places of contest
28. Sardonic
31. Fragrance
32. Pic
34. Rejections
36. Trudge
37. Levis rival
38. Thrifty management
41. Calendar abbr.
42. Minnesotas St. ___ College
44. Color
45. Conger catcher
47. ___ firma
49. Agreement
51. Boredom
53. Threefold
56. Incomplete
59. Coagulate
61. Arduous journey
64. Delhi dress
65. Smooth transition
66. Breezy
67. One of the Baldwins
68. Mikhails wife
69. May ___ excused?
70. Puts in stitches
71. Aconcaguas range 
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Youre excited about the new semester and everything 
seems to be going great. Watch out for silly arguments with 
those tricky Libras.
taurus
april 20may 20
You are likely to take the lead in a group project this 
semester, but dont let it get to your head.
gemini
may 21june 21
Just pick a class already! Dont take this decision too 
seriously.
cancer
june 22july 22
I know winter break with the family was awesome and 
youre kind of homesick, but pick your chin up and take on 
the semester.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
You easily charm your friends with your wit, but dont get 
too arrogant  stay humble this semester.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Break out of your comfort zone this semester and try 
something new.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Balancing a social life with academics should come 
naturally to you, but dont get too wild at those raves.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Just remember to have some fun this semester.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
You might bite off more than you can chew, so pick your 
classes and extracurriculars wisely.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
Your discipline will help you get in shape this semester.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Befriend a Pisces to help you confront your emotions, 
which you usually run away from.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Take some classes in CFA this semester; itll do you good.
Kairavi Chahal | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 01.21.1315
MONDAY1.21.13
Martin Luther King Jr. Day Writing Awards. Rangos 
3, University Center. 1:30 p.m.
Local high school students and Carnegie Mellon students 
will read their personal narratives about experiences 
with racial difference and discrimination. The MLK Day 
Writing Awards are sponsored by the Carnegie Mellon 
creative writing program, Student Affairs, and the of?ce 
of president Jared Cohon. The MLK Day celebration 
continues throughout the day with other events in 
the University Center. A full calendar can be found at 
studentaffairs.cmu.edu/?rst-year/mlk.
Morrissey. Heinz Hall. 8 p.m.
The Smiths lyricist and lead singer Morrissey will perform 
at Heinz Hall. Tickets are available at pittsburghsymphony.
org.
TUESDAY1.22.13
Working as an Independent Filmmaker with Dave 
Davis. Pittsburgh Filmmakers Library. 7 p.m.
Local ?lmmaker Dave Davis will discuss his experiences 
working as an independent producer and ?lmmaker 
as part of Pittsburgh Filmmakers Library Conversation 
Series. The event is free and open to the public.
The Toasters. Club Cafe. 8 p.m.
Renowned ska band The Toasters will perform at Club 
Cafe with ska bands Mrs. Skannotto and The Pressure.
WEDNESDAY1.23.13
Reel Big Fish. Altar Bar. 6 p.m.
The California-based ska-punk band Reel Big Fish will 
perform at Altar Bar in the Strip District. The event is 
open to guests of all ages. Tickets are available online at 
thealtarbar.com or at the door.
THURSDAY1.24.13
The Tender Land. Philip Chosky Theater, Purnell Center 
for the Arts. 8 p.m.
The Carnegie Mellon School of Music presents Aaron 
Coplands opera The Tender Land, a coming-of-age story 
about a girl who dreams of freedom from her overbearing 
family. The opera follows her story in the heartland of 
1930s America. Other performances are on Friday at 8 
p.m., Saturday at 8 p.m., and Sunday at 2 p.m. Tickets 
are free for students and can be reserved at the Purnell 
box of?ce or online at drama.cmu.edu.
FRIDAY1.25.13
Gallery Crawl. The Cultural District. 5:30 p.m.
The Cultural Trust presents this years ?rst quarterly 
Gallery Crawl. A variety of galleries and art spaces will be 
open to the public for free. A detailed list of exhibitions 
can be found at the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust website, 
trustarts.org.
PSO presents Mozarts Symphony No. 40. Heinz Hall. 
8 p.m.
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra will perform Mozarts 
Symphony No. 40 and works by three Czech composers 
this weekend. British conductor Michael Francis will make 
his PSO debut, and the performance will also feature 
violinist Christian Tetzlaff. The orchestra will also perform 
the concert on Saturday at 8 p.m. and on Sunday at 2:30 
p.m. Tickets are available at pittsburghsymphony.org.
SATURDAY1.26.13
Emancipator. Rex Theater. 9 p.m.
Portland-based trip-hop producer Emancipator will 
perform at the Rex Theater. His upcoming album Dusk to 
Dawn is set to release on Jan. 29 on Loci Records. Eliot 
Lipp and Tor will open for Emancipator. More information 
and tickets are available at rextheatre.com.
ONGOING
 
Les Misrables. Benedum Center. Through Jan. 27.
PNC Broadway Across America presents Les Misrables, 
the famed musical by Claude-Michel Schnberg and Alain 
Boublil based on the novel of the same name by Victor 
Hugo. Les Mis tells the story of Jean Valjean, a French 
peasant searching for redemption during the French 
Revolution. This production also features Carnegie Mellon 
alumnus Devin Ilaw (CFA 07) as young revolutionary 
Marius. More information and tickets are available at 
trustarts.org.
Inventing the Modern World: Decorative Arts at the 
Worlds Fairs, 18511939. The Carnegie Museum of Art. 
Through Feb. 24.
This exhibit features works ranging from jewelry to 
furniture that showcase changing tastes in aesthetics and 
design within the span of nearly nine decades.
Compiled by Allison Cosby | Contributing Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.
Classifieds
SLEEP RESEARCH STUDY at the University of 
Pittsburgh for healthy adults ages 18  30 with 
good sleep. Compensation provided. Call 412-
246-6862 or visit www.veteranssleep.pitt.edu 
for more information.

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 01.21.13
Jonathan Leung | Assistant Photo Editor
Guy Russo of Broken Fences performed last Wednesday at Skibo 
Caf in a concert presented by AB Skibo that kick-started the new 
semester. Broken Fences is a Pittsburgh-based indie-folk duo and a 
Skibo regular. 
concert.
