www.thetartan.orgVolume 96, Issue 815 October 2001
..
Carnegie Mlions Student Newspaper Since 1906TUESDAY
Hi 56/Lo 35TARTAN
WEDNESDAY
Hi 44/Lo 37
THURSDAY
Hi 62/Lo 41
FRIDAY
Hi 63/Lo 42
PA Governor awards 
Carnegie Mellon $6.2 
million for complex
PHI KAP PARTICIPATION 
IN CARNIVAL APPROVED
FRATERNITY WILL FILE APPEAL IN FEBRUARY TO 
REGAIN QUAD HOUSING PRIVILEGES FOR FALL 2002
secure space in the University 
Center, but those plans were put on hold indefinitely after an outcry 
of opposition from the student body.
According to a University press release, the non-profit collaboration between Carnegie Mellon 
University and the Carnegie 
Museums of Pittsburgh will be 
composed of 120,000 square feet of office space.
In this digital economy, part
nerships and collaboration is what works, said Schweiker before 
announcing the $6 million award. 
Technology companies the world 
over are eyeing office locations 
that are close in proximity to sea
soned and up-and-coming research talent at top universities. The most rewarding way to grow 
Pennsylvania is through lesson plans we support today.
Cohon said that the center will 
provide high quality jobs that will See COMPLEX, page A3
rush, adhering to various restric
tions and requirements imposed 
on them by the University to 
atone for the past violations, and 
securing a place in next springs 
Carnival. Phi Kap members pre
sented a request to the University 
over the summer that they be 
allowed to participate in all 
Carnival activities, and Michael 
Murphy, dean of Student Affairs, 
granted the fraternity approval, 
overturning one of the two UDC 
rulings. Dean Murphy has final 
discretion in all UDC disciplinary 
recommendations.
The UDC recommendation 
that [Phi Kap] lose their housing 
privileges came down after the 
recommendation that they lose 
Carnival privileges, said Dean 
Murphy. After discussion with 
various staff members within the 
division, I indicated to the leader
ship [of Phi Kap] that I would 
consider an appeal that the more 
onerous sanction  the loss of 
See PH I KAP, page A4
by Aseem Gupta
Co-Ed itor-in-Chiefby Sara Henneberger
News Editor
Carnegie Mellon took another 
step towards its goal of a Panther Hollow corporate complex on 
Friday when Pennsylvania 
Governor Mark Schweiker con
firmed an award of $6.2 million to 
the University for construction of a 
new $31.4 million research incuba
tor. Jared Cohon, president of Carnegie Mellon, had announced 
tentative plans for the complex on 
September 24, but the plans for the 
project were not finalized until this past Friday.
Schweiker and Cohon both con
firmed that the Intel Corporation, 
the largest corporate donor to Carnegie Mellon, will be seeking 
space in the new complex. Currently, Intel is leasing space 
above the Uni-Mart in Oakland for 
its Pittsburgh-based research labs. 
Previously, Intel attempted to
Vying for a second chance as an 
on-campus fraternity, Phi Kappa 
Theta (Phi Kap) has successfully 
petitioned for and received 
University permission to partici
pate in Carnival 2002 and will 
soon submit a request to move 
back onto campus next fall. Last 
spring, facing lease and behavior 
violations, Phi Kap was evicted 
from its house on the fraternity 
quadrangle and banned from 
Carnival activities by two sepa
rate University Disciplinary 
Committee (UDC) rulings. The 
UDC decisions were handed 
down after a yearlong investiga
tion by campus police of a wide 
range of incidents involving fra
ternity members.
Since losing their house, frater
nity members have attempted to 
maintain a favorable presence on 
campus by participating in fall
neiiie Mellon
Shaina McGrath/Photo Co-Editor
Pennsylvania Governor Mark Schweiker announced the award of $2.6 million 
to CMU for construction of a research facility on the Panther Hollow ditch.
Denial of service attacks lead to network outages, frustrates campus Internet users
America, with the most computersawy users and administrators, 
should also be the most vulnera
ble. The immense amount of per
sonal and research information 
stored on the andrew file servers 
represents both an invitation for 
theft and an empty wall waiting to 
be defaced. Every connecting 
node on the vast Andrew network 
is an integral conveyor of informa
tion, and a successful attack on 
just one node asphyxiates the 
entire network.
According to John Lerchey, net
work security coordinator for 
Computing Services, Carnegie 
Mellon experienced a network 
outage due to a denial of service
(DoS) attack on October 6 and 7. 
In a DoS attack, excessive network 
traffic is bombarded at a given 
target, usually a specific machine. 
This overload prevents the target 
from conducting any legitimate 
network activity and effectively 
takes the target off of the net
work. The technique may be 
refined by using multiple 
machines to increase the amount 
of bandwidth for attack. With one 
node down, the network chokes.
The Pittsburgh Supercomputer 
Center is our link to the Internet, 
said Lerchey. Thus, all Carnegie 
Mellon external traffic goes 
through the PSC. When a DoSi; 
attack occurs from outside, the
inbound connection from the 
Pittsburgh Supercomputing 
Center gets clogged. The incom
ing flood backs up all traffic 
bound for Carnegie Mellon for 
some period of time. These inci
dents typically last 10 minutes to 
an hour, and, from when detect
ed, can take 20 minutes to an hour 
or more to verify and shut down. 
In many cases, the attack stops 
before network technicians here 
are able to respond to it. In some 
cases machines on campus are 
used to participate in outbound 
DoS attacks.
Lerchey emphasized that no per
sonal files on the Andrew File
See NETWORK, page A4
by Justin Ker
Staffwriter
If Email is my life, as Mulberry 
proclaims on startup, we all died 
for a few hours last Saturday and 
Sunday. Inability to. access email 
and the Internet may have been a 
mere inconvenience to some and a 
devastating hindrance to complet
ing assignments for others, but 
few students realized that the rea
son behind this was ironically 
both expected and unthinkable: 
CMUs network was attacked last 
weekend.
It is somewhat of a paradox that 
the most wired campus in
Memorial held for six alumni confirmed 
dead, missing in September 11 tragedies
Andrea Hsu/Junior Staff
Uman had applied to both 
Carnegie Mellon and University 
of Connecticut and was accepted 
to both. When trying to help him make a decision, Umans father 
told him that if he went to 
UConn, he would buy him a 
brand new Porsche. Uman 
attended CMU instead and had 
just recently purchased his own 
Porsche and taken his father for 
a ride.
Next, John Lehoczky, dean of 
Humanities and Social Sciences, 
spoke in honor of Lawrence Kim 
(HS 97), Norma Lang Steurle 
(HS 69), and Matthew D. Yarnell 
(HS 97). A brass ensemble from the Phi Mu Alpha music fraterni
ty played an interlude after the 
speeches were completed.
Sister Sheila ONeill then 
spoke about the loss that the 
University felt for the members 
of their extended family, and of 
enduring these difficult times. 
She closed her speech with a prayer for our enemies.
Each attendee then filed out of 
See ALUMNI, page A4
What Homecoming could be complete without the presence of Carnegie 
Mellons trademark bagpipers?by Sonni Abatta
Junior Staffwriter
SDC, Senate form new 
committee to examine 
dining services at CMU
One hundred Carnegie Mellon 
students, alumni, friends and 
family gathered Saturday morn
ing to mourn the loss of six alum
ni who died or were confirmed 
missing in the terrorist catastro
phes of last month. The atten
dees, including the families of 
three victims, gathered in Kresge 
Theatre to listen to speeches prepared by faculty and personal 
acquaintances of the victims.
The ceremony opened with a 
welcome from President Jared 
Cohon and was followed by an account of Frederick Kuo, Jr. (E 
69) by John Anderson, dean of 
the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. Following, Douglas 
Dunn, dean of GSIA, offered a 
tribute to Alan Linton (IM 97) and Jonathan Uman (IM 90). He 
said that Uman, who was also a 
member of the Delta Upsilon fraternity, once recounted a story to 
him. As a senior in high school,
before it disappears. Highlander has 
been closed as a cafeteria-style venue, and students fear their food options may continue to dwindle.In order to consider new solutions for the plethora of problems with CMU dining, the Student Dormitory Council (SDC) and Student Senate 
have formed an investigative food committee in a joint effort. The issue of whether or not to bring a cafeteria back to campus, albeit a very important issue, is just one of several that the joint food committee between SDC and Student Senate will be looking at, said Mike Sebetich, a senior information systems major, Student Body Treasurer, and member of the 
See DINING, page A3
by Colin McCabe
Staffwriter
It may be that nothing in life is certain, except for death and taxes. However, Carnegie Mellon students are able to add a third item to that list: dissatisfaction with campus food options.More than ten independent vendors sell numerous types of food on campus, including Chinese, Indian, and Mexican dishes. However, many students are frustrated by the quirks of campus-offered meal plans, including difficult-to-use block meals and biweekly resets of Dine-X funds that force them to spend their money
Wendy Wu/Junior Staff
Attendees file out of Kresge Theatre following Saturdays memorial service for 
alumni victims of the September 11 terrorist attacks.
INSIDE THE TARTANSDS Department announces 
new major; decision sciencesSports
CMU puts up a good fight 
against Washington University 
in last Saturdays Homecoming 
page A12
Arts & Living
Check out reviews of the 
musical performances for 
Homecoming 2001. 
page B1
result of their quest has culminat
ed in the creation of a new major 
within the department: decision 
sciences.
Behavioral decision research 
(BDR) is an interdisciplinary field 
that draws on insights from psy
chology and economics to provide 
a more realistic picture of human 
decision-making and will be inte
gral to the decision sciences pro
gram. The program has only 
See SDS, page A3
by Mayank Bubna
Junior Staffwriter
Entertainment
Learn the essentials of mak
ing a good mix tape, and read 
reviews of two new heavy
metal albums.
page B8
What does economics have in 
common with decision-making 
and emotions? How do health 
and environment depend on 
behavioral analysis? Researchers 
in the Social and Decision Sciences Department at Carnegie 
Mellon are trying to explore some 
of these complex issues, and the
Mim
Behnam Farahpour/Photo Co-Editor
Widespread student dissatisfaction with campus dining has prompted SDC and Student Senate to collaboratively explore new food options.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 15, 2001
Despite air attacks, Taliban 
refuses bin Laden handoverUkrainian officials concede military 
missile shot down Russian airliner
Hominids may have exhibited compassion
airport, it said, blaming a possible 
targeting process error.
In addition to the pre-dawn raid 
on Kabul, Kandahar was targeted 
in a morning strike. Taliban 
Information Minister Kudarat 
Ullah Jamal said Kandahars air
port was hit, several houses were destroyed and a lot of people 
killed. The claim could not be 
independently verified.
The United States has said 
repeatedly that civilians are not 
being targeted, but ordinary 
Afghans say they feel afraid.
Osama ... is not living in the 
mud houses of poor people, said Mohammed Wali, a Kabul money
changer. We should not be 
attacked.
In northern Afghanistan, a 
spokesman for the opposition mili
tary alliance said the rebels had 
captured an important district in 
Samanghan province, Gul Dera. 
The spokesman, Mohammed Ashraf Nadim, contacted by tele
phone from Islamabad, said oppo
sition troops were closing in on 
other Taliban-controlled areas.
Another northern alliance 
spokesman, Abdullah, said 
Saturday that heavy US strikes 
overnight had hit Taliban positions 
near Taloqan, a position in the 
north seized from the rebels last 
year.
The Afghan Islamic Press report
ed Saturday that US warplanes 
attacked Taliban positions at Pule-Khomri, in northern Baghlan 
province, which has changed 
hands several times.
A senior rebel commander, Gen. 
Baba Jan, commander of opposi
tion forces in the Bagram district, 
said Pakistan had pressured 
Washington not to hit Taliban posi
tions on the front. Pakistan is sup
porting Washington against bin 
Laden, but has a hostile relation
ship with the northern alliance.
Pakistan has expressed the most 
concern over the possibility of an 
advance by opposition forces fight
ing close to Kabul to try to take the 
capital. The Taloqan area near the 
northern Tajik border, and Pul-eKhomri, a little to the south, are 
both far from Kabul.
Humanitarian groups, mean
while, were painting an increas
ingly grim picture of life inside 
Afghanistan. The United Nations 
reported that the markets of Kabul 
were still operating, but food 
prices were said to be creeping up.
U.N. spokeswoman Stephanie 
Bunker said in Islamabad that in 
one childrens hospital, fewer than 
half the doctors and one-third of 
the nurses were working. Kabul 
University was empty of students, 
teachers had not been paid in two 
months, and the national airline, 
Ariana, has canceled all domestic 
flights, she said.
KABUL, Afghanistan (AP)  
rThe Taliban leader said the Afghan 
, ruling militia wont surrender 
Osama bin Laden, taking a defiant 
stance in the face of a weeklong 
^US-led air assault that continued 
Saturday with strikes on at least 
three cities.A pre-dawn strike destroyed 
'homes in a Kabul neighborhood 
near the airport, and the United 
'States acknowledged a bomb had 
gone astray. Residents said one 
person was killed and four injured. A Pentagon statement said there 
were reports of four dead and 
eight injured  the same numbers 
reported by the Taliban  but said 
there was no way to verify the 
number of casualties.
The Taliban rebuff of an offer 
President Bush made Thursday  
hand bin Laden over, and the 
airstrikes could end  came amid 
a seventh straight day of air 
attacks on Afghanistan. Saturdays 
strikes hit the cities of Kabul, 
Kandahar and Herat as well as 
Taliban targets in the north of the 
country.
After nightfall, US jets fired at 
targets in the north of Kabul, the 
capital, causing earthshaking det
onations and sending up huge 
plumes of smoke. Several large but 
distant explosions could also be 
heard in Jalalabad, but it was 
unclear how far the detonations 
were from the northeastern city.
A military base in the northeast
ern part of Kandahar, the southern 
city where the Taliban have their 
headquarters, was also targeted in 
nighttime raids, the private 
Afghan Islamic Press reported in 
Islamabad, Pakistan.
The Talibans supreme leader, Mullah Mohammed Omar, issued a 
blistering statement late Saturday 
denouncing the American air cam
paign and saying there was no 
move to hand over anyone.
Omar, whose compound was 
repeatedly attacked by US jets this 
week, rarely appears in public, and 
there is no generally accepted pho
tograph of him. The last time any
one apart from his closest associates is known to have met with 
Omar was September 28, when a 
delegation of Pakistani clerics and 
an intelligence general visited him 
in Kandahar.
The Taliban ambassador to 
neighboring Pakistan,
Afghanistans sole remaining 
envoy to the outside world, said 
Saturday he was heading back to 
Kandahar for consultations with 
Omar. The envoy, Abdul Salam 
Zaeef, did not give a reason.
In Washington, a Pentagon offi
cial acknowledged that a stray 
bomb had hit a civilian area one 
mile from the airport. The 2,000- 
pound, satellite-guided bomb had 
been aimed at a helicopter at the
KIEV, Ukraine (AP)  
Ukraines defense minister con
ceded Saturday that the military 
was involved in the explosion of 
a Russian airliner over the Black 
Sea last week, and he apologized 
for the tragedy.We dont know the causes of 
this tragedy today, but we know 
that we are related to it, 
Defense Minister Oleksandr 
Kuzmuk said at a news confer
ence.
It was the nearest admission of 
Ukrainian responsibility since 
the Tu-154 airliner exploded and crashed into the Black Sea on 
October 4.
All 78 people, most of them 
recent Russian immigrants to 
Israel,were killed.
I bring my apologies to the 
victims relatives and close ones;
I bring my apologies to Ukraines 
president, the government, par
liament and the Ukrainian peo
ple, Kuzmuk said.
Gen. Volodymry Tkachov, the 
air defenses chief, said it was 
possible the airliner was acciden
tally shot down by a missile fired 
by Ukrainian forces during mili
tary exercises, as both US and
Russian officials have alleged, but he stopped short of confirm
ing it outright.
He said that he and his deputy, 
Volodymyr Dyakov, have already 
offered their resignations to Kuzmuk over this tragic combi
nation of circumstances.
Hours after the aricraft crash, 
US officials said satellites 
showed the tragedy had been 
caused by an S-200 missile fired 
by Ukrainian forces during mili
tary exercises on the Crimean 
Peninsula, which juts into the Black Sea.
Vladimir Rushailo, the Russian 
chief of the commission investi
gating the crash of a Russian air
liner, said Friday that the aircraft 
had been hit by an anti-aircraft 
missile.
The Tu-154 flying from Tel Aviv to Novosibirsk crashed 
because it was hit by the war
head of an anti-aircraft missile, 
Rushailo told reporters in the 
Black Sea port city of Sochi.
At a second news conference 
Saturday, Rushailo said the air
craft was destroyed when the 
missile exploded 50 feet above 
it. The whole of the aircraft
was within the zone of the 
explosion of the warhead of the missile, he said.
Rushailo said investigators 
found 350 holes in fragments of 
the aircraft recovered from the Black Sea.
Investigators on Thursday 
said that metal fragments simi
lar to shrapnel contained in the 
missiles warhead were found in 
victims bodies and in the body of the plane.
Pressure has been mounting 
on Ukraines leadership to take responsibility for the crash.
Tkachov said Ukrainian offi
cials had never rejected the mis
sile version, but were convinced 
that one of their missiles was 
not at fault because of data from 
tracking equipment.
Russian investigators had initially focused on the possibility 
of a terrorist attack, but officials 
later signaled that they were 
considering the Ukrainian mis
sile theory ever more likely.
Tkachov said he was prepared 
to accept all the conclusions of 
the investigating commission 
and take responsibility both 
morally and legally.
PARIS (AP)  Neanderthals might not have been as savage as we think. A 200,000-year-old 
jawbone discovered in France suggests the primitive hominids took care of each other, in this case feeding a toothless peer, an 
international team of experts said Friday.
A damaged jawbone, discovered last year in southern France, 
shows that its owner survived without teeth for up to several years  impossible without a helping hand from his or her peers, said Canadian paleontologist Serge Lebel.This individual must have been quite weak and needed 
preparation of his or her food, and the social group probably took care of him or her, Lebel said at a news conference.
Others in the group may have gone as far as chewing the food for their sick peer, as well as cutting and cooking it, he said.
The discovery may push back ideas of the beginning of social 
care by 150,000 years, Lebel said. A similar infection that 
caused a hominid to lose his teeth had previously only been found in fossils dating back50,000 years, he said.However, University of 
Pittsburgh anthropologist Jeffrey Schwartz was skeptical. The dis
covery is interesting, but there might be a larger story here, he 
said in a telephone interview. You can eat a lot without your 
teeth. There is no reason to think the individual couldnt have been 
chewing soft food  snails, mollusks, even worms.
Evidence of the controlled use of fire and tools for cutting that 
were unearthed around the fossil show a level of domestic organi
zation also previously thought to 
have started much later, Lebel said.
The fossil was found with two teeth from other individuals.
Fighting in Columbia between rebels, government troops, leaves 20 dead
BOGOTA, Colombia (AP)  
Scattered clashes between 
rebels, government troops, and 
rightist paramilitaries have 
killed 20 combatants in 
Colombia, the army said Saturday.
Fighting was continuing 
Saturday outside the township of Anori in Antioquia province  
185 miles north of the capital, 
Bogota  where soldiers killed 
three fighters from the leftist 
National Liberation Army, or 
ELN, during early morning skir
mishes.
Government troops Saturday also killed a fighter from the
Revolutionary Armed Forces of 
Colombia, or FARC, in southern 
Narino province and two paramilitary fighters in Tolima 
province, Capt. Jorge Florez, an army spokesman, told The 
Associated Press.
Authorities blame the paramil
itary army  known as the 
United Self Defense Forces of Colombia, or AUC  for slaying 
53 people in the past week dur
ing a bloody massacre campaign. 
The victims include a congress
man and 24 unarmed peasants.On Friday, government troops 
in the provinces of Norte de Santander and Cundinamarca
killed nine fighters from the ELN 
and the FARC, the nations 
largest rebel army. Five soldiers 
were killed during the battle in 
Cundinamarca when they 
walked into a FARC camp strewn 
with land mines, Florez said.
The nationwide fighting comes 
a week after a peace agreement 
between the government and the 16,000-strong FARC raised hopes 
for a negotiated solution to 
Colombias 37-year civil war.
The war, pitting the two rebel 
armies against the government 
and a right-wing paramilitary 
army, kills some 3,500 people every year.
Downtown Chicago anti-war protest draws over 800 university students, community members
(U-WIRE) CHICAGO  Signs 
bearing slogans such as Stop the 
War! No more Killing!!, Down 
with US Imperialism, and No 
racist attacks, defend civil liber
ties adorned Chicagos Federal 
Plaza this week.
Approximately 800 people, 
including 15 to 20 DePaul stu
dents, protested against the 
United States commencement of 
attacks on Afghanistan at the Federal Plaza, at Dearborn and 
Adams, Tuesday.
I dont support the war in any 
way, said Kristin Robinson, 
sophomore undeclared major. I 
dont think the people of 
Afghanistan are to blame for what happened in New York
through, after speeches from 
members of the American 
Friends Committee, the Eighth 
Day Center for Justice, and 
United Muslims Moving Ahead, 
students were introduced from Harold Washington Community 
College, University of Illinois at 
Chicago, and DePaul University.
Each student rose to the 
makeshift stage and voiced their 
opposition to the war and their 
encouragement for peace.
Educate yourselves, ask questions, said Christin Denning, 
sophomore womens studies. 
This directly affects us too, not just the rest of the world.
Look at other media sources, suggested Michael Ludden,
City.
The rally, organized by the Chicago Coalition Against War 
and Racism, began with singing 
through a microphone hooked up 
to a small loudspeaker. Plagued 
with feedback, verses of song 
encouraging peace, not war, 
echoed through the plaza while 
those in the audience sang along.
The rally officially began with a 
moment of silence to commemo
rate those lost in the attacks in 
New York, Pennsylvania and 
Washington, D.C. However, the protestors uniformly highlighted 
that the war did not begin on 
September 11.
Students seemed to play a critical role in this protest. Midway
junior undeclared major. The 
media can only go on what the 
government gives them.
And what the government has 
given the media at this point is 
not much, according to many pro
testors.
Every fact that people learn 
about the policies of this govern
ment, the more convinced they 
will become that almost every
thing it says are lies and almost 
everything it does is evil, said 
Ken Burak, graduate student of philosophy at DePaul.
Aside from the anti-war sentiments expressed at the rally, the 
need to end racist attacks against 
Muslims and Arab Americans was also emphasized.
Corrections & Clarifications
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an error, please contact 
Editors-in-Chief Aseem Gupta and Sara Stille atx8-2Ul or tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.
Introducing
WALKING TOUR
True tales of huntings Supernatural activity 
^ spine tingling stories ^ 
from Pttts{mr<f!i s premier restore} Victorian neigWWlioot}.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26 # SATURDAY, OCTOBER 27 
6PM-9PM
Tours leave every 1S minutes from Emmanuel Episcopal Gfcurcli 
at tfoe corner of Allegheny anj Akitfi Avenue
or more
TICKETS: 110
8 (WITH STUDENT ID)GSIA Posner Hall, First Floor
(Former Location of the Fluted Mushroomj
Mon-Thu: Sam - 8pm 
Friday: 6am - 3pm412.268.7529
Owned and Operated by The Original Hot Dog Shop

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 15, 2001
SDS interdisciplinary 
major adds new depth 
to H&SS department
Dining committee will focus on student input 
to improve food services at Carnegie Mellon
SDS, from page A1 
been in existence for a year now, 
so it is not something many peo
ple have heard of, said Jennifer 
Lerner, an assistant professor in 
SDS involved in laying the 
groundwork for the new major. 
It specializes in working at the 
intersection of multiple fields 
such as psychology, economics, 
organizational behavior, and 
operations research.
Otto Davis, W.W. Cooper 
University professor of econom
ics and public policy, said that 
decision sciences is the first 
undergraduate major of its kind 
at any university. He expressed 
confidence that it is a major with 
immense potential that will 
grow into a larger program.
Currently, SDS faculty engage 
in research-based teaching in 
the field of decision science. 
We reviewed our educational 
program, and realized that we 
had the largest research group 
anywhere in this field, said 
Baruch Fischhoff, an SDS pro
fessor and the director of the 
decision science program. We 
also felt that there would be 
great demand for graduates, so 
we hired some new and highly 
diverse faculty, which include 
psychologists, economists, 
philosophers, and political sci
entists. The department has also 
begun to create an internship 
program in the field.
The decision sciences field is 
a synergy, blending research on 
how people make decisions and 
how they should make deci
sions, said Lerner, adding that 
the interdisciplinary approach 
to the field makes it unique. 
Psychology takes the descrip
tive perspective and economics 
takes the normative perspec
tive.
There is a lot of overlap 
between this program and engi
neering and public policy, for 
students coming at these issues 
from an engineering' back
ground, said Fischhoff. It is a
perfect major for CMU, since it 
takes a theoretical perspective 
on applied problems. We believe 
that it will prepare students well 
for research and for various pro
fessional schools, such as an 
MBA, law, or medical degree. 
The field is both empirical and 
analytical, offering students 
research opportunities to collect 
data on human behavior.
Students in the program learn 
skills such as analyzing informa
tion, understanding probability, 
and how other humans under
stand probability. Reason, 
Passion, and Social Cognition, a 
core class in the major, examines 
how emotions and cognition 
interact to influence judgment 
and decision-making. According 
to Lerner, A student will, after 
taking this course, be able to 
read and understand original 
scientific papers on the topic. 
Even if they do not go in to sci
ence for a career, such skills will 
make them a more informed 
consumer of information. For 
example, they will be able to 
read a report of a study from the 
New York Times and know how 
to assess its quality. Their pro
gram also covers group and indi
vidual decision-making, marketbased decisions, and investment 
decisions.
Lerner said that decision sci
ences is likely to be a highly mar
ketable major to students. 
Consulting and management 
can be pursued [with a decision 
sciences degree], said Lerner.
[The new program] is also a 
good preparation for the grow
ing academic field with pro
grams in professional schools 
and active research programs, 
said Fischhoff.
There has long been a gradu
ate program at CMU in decision 
sciences, but with the new pro
gram, the field has now been 
extended to the undergradu
ates. It makes sense to make 
these offerings to undergradu
ates, too, said Lerner.
DINING, from page A1 
food committee.
At a preliminary meeting last 
Thursday, the newly formed commit
tee of approximately twelve mem
bers considered strategies for 
improving food services for the entire 
campus. The group decided that 
their first order of business will be a 
survey to obtain student feedback 
about various dining-related issues. 
The committee will compile survey 
results before approaching Dining 
Services with any proposals for 
improved eateries on campus.
Perhaps the most serious problem 
that the committee will consider in 
the coming weeks is what to do with 
the Highlander Cafe. Two years ago, 
it was a popular destination on cam
pus. At that time, the all-you-can-eat 
cafeteria was one of only two places 
on campus where students could
spend meal blocks, the other being 
Schatz dining hall.
All that changed last spring, when 
Parkhurst Dining Services assumed 
control of University Dining Services 
during a period of financial retrench
ment. Highlander never made 
money, said Neil Hunt, a sophomore 
information system major, Student 
Dormitory Council Co-Food Chair, 
and member of the food committee. 
The buffet-style cafeteria had 
required University subsidization to 
stay in business. In order to reduce 
losses and pay for renovations, 
Parkhurst decided to offer food on an 
a la carte basis in the dining hall. 
Unfortunately, the massive unpopu
larity of the revised Highlander 
forced the company to rethink its 
strategy. This semester, the vendors 
in Highlander have been replaced by 
just one: Taste of India.
Committee members feel that 
something has been lost with the 
closing of the Highlander cafeteria 
and wish to develop a solution that 
will please students and be financial
ly stable for the University.
Cafeterias... should offer students 
a place where they can have as much 
food as they want from a wide selec
tion while offering an important 
opportunity to get to know other stu
dents, said Sebetich.
Another issue that committee 
members wish to address is the price 
of campus meals. Since the begin
ning of this semester, block meals 
have been worth more later in the 
evening, and some vendors have con
sequently raised prices. You pay a lot 
of money [for a meal], and you leave 
and youre still hungry, said Susan 
Leu, a senior economics and comput
er science major.
In my opinion, the meal plan 
structure does not correlate well with 
the dining facilities we offer, said 
Hunt.
The new SDS and Student Senate 
food committee has a challenging job 
ahead of them as they attempt to 
compile proposals to present to the 
University administration regarding 
on-campus food venues, prices, and 
quality. The committee ultimately 
hopes to take the ideas of students 
and put them towards improving 
campus dining at CMU.
Every year the needs and wants 
of the student body change, said 
Katie Warren, a junior business 
administration major and >a 
Student Dormitory Council CoFood Chair.
Hopefully, next years students will 
be able to sit down to eat on campus 
with no worries.
Plans for Panther Hollow building move ahead with $6m pledge from Governor, strong Intel committment
COMPLEX, from page A1
help graduates stay in Western 
Pennsylvania and strengthen 
Pennsylvania and Pittsburgh as a 
technology business center. The 
Panther Hollow project will promote 
research collaborations with corpo
rate partners while giving national 
technology companies the venue to 
locate closer to Oaklands major 
research universities, said Cohon.
The new building will be built on 
the Panther Hollow ditch, taking 
advantage of the steep sloping 
walls of the valley. Beneath the 
new structure will be four stories 
of parking containing approximately 270 spaces. Given the cur
rent price of building garage-style 
parking at $25,000 a space, the 
parking area alone will cost $6.75 
million and will be a valuable addi
tion to the current parking system 
when the building is eventually 
converted to a Carnegie Mellon 
academic building.
In a presentation to students on 
September 24, Cohon indicated that 
the 120,000 square foot building 
would be a stepping stone to a much 
larger building to be built on the 
Carnegie Museum side of the 
Panther Hollow ditch. Upon com
pletion of that building, companies
based in the Carnegie Mellon build
ing would be moved to the new 
building adjacent to the Carnegie 
Museum of Art. Specific plans for 
that building have not yet been 
announced.
Marking a departure from the tra
ditional Hornbostel architecture 
that has predominated on Carnegie 
Mellons campus throughout its his
tory, the new building will retain 
some features but will be composed 
of glass and mason. Designed by 
L.D. Astorino and Associates, a 
Pittsburgh-based architectural firm, 
the building will include compo
nents of environmentally sustainable design and the intelligent 
workplace, both products of 
Carnegie Mellon. One of the fea
tures will be green design, said 
Cohon. [It is] an opportunity to 
create a building that exhibits green 
design principles.
Mayor Tom Murphy, also present 
at Fridays unveiling, described the 
project as a place of discoveries 
where magic is done. Murphy, in 
a short speech, said that the corpo
rate complex would help trans
form Pittsburgh and that 
Pittsburgh and Carnegie Mellon 
were partners in the transforma
tion.
Courtesy of Carnegie Mellon Univeristy
A preliminary sketch for a new center for technology research and development on Panther Hollow ditch to be partially funded by the State.
Crime and Incident Report
rocks.
Pittsburgh 
412. 421.6777
Medical Intoxication
10/6/01, 11:49 PM  A CMU stu
dent called police to report a person 
passed out in his dorm. When the 
officer arrived at the scene, he found 
a female student lying on the floor of 
a restroom, conscious, highly intoxi
cated, and vomiting into a drain on 
the floor. The female immediately 
tried to exit the restroom, but the offi
cer prevented her and told her to sit 
down. The victim screamed, I want 
to go to sleep! and lay down on the 
floor. CMU EMS responded and treat
ed the victim. She experienced mild 
seizures and was screaming and 
uncooperative throughout the treat
ment. When questioned, the female 
stated that she had not used any 
drugs that night. A city ambulance 
arrived to transport the female to 
Presbyterian Hospital. Both EMS and 
the city medic stated that the victim 
appeared to be under the influence of 
some type of narcotic. All criteria 
were met for the amnesty policy and 
thus the student was issued a citation.
Criminal Mischief 10/7/01,
7:13 AMA shuttle driver reported 
to police that person (s) unknown had 
thrown a fire extinguisher through 
the window of his shuttle overnight. 
The responding officer recovered the 
extinguisher and a Tostitos bag 
stuffed into the tail pipe. The fire 
extinguisher will be returned to its 
proper location.
Defiant Trespass 10/7/01, 
6:53 PMA security guard radioed 
police to report a group of skate
boarders skating off the exterior of 
Mellon Institute. The Skateboarders 
appeared to have set up movie lights 
and to be filming the action. When 
the responding officer arrived, the 
skateboarders left. Two males were 
attempting to take down the lights. 
The officer recognized one of the 
males, having stopped him for similar 
activity last week. At that time, the 
officer had warned the male that he 
would be cited if he returned to CMU 
property. The male professed igno
rance of his wrongdoing and stated 
that he filmed skateboarders for a liv
ing. The officer informed him that he 
and the skateboarders were trespass
ing on private property and issued
the male a state citation for defiant 
trespass. The other male was warned 
not to return to campus.
Suspicious Package 10/8/01, 
11:55 AM  A CMU professor 
called police to report a suspicious 
package that he received in the mail. 
It appeared to contain a CD, but was 
suspiciously sealed with cellophane 
tape and had no return address. The 
professor was not expecting any such 
package. CMU police contacted the 
United States Postal Service, who 
sent two Postal Inspectors. The 
responding Postal Inspectors confis
cated the package and said they 
would try to determine who the 
sender might be. If nothing else could 
be determined, the package would be 
X-rayed.
Theft 10/8/01, 6 PM  The
responding officer took a theft report 
from a fraternity member. The victim 
stated that he had left his wallet in his 
room, which was unlocked. While 
searching for the missing wallet, his 
fraternity brothers informed the vic
tim that a male with two small female 
children had been seen walking 
through the fraternity selling candy. 
The victim thought this unusual 
behavior, since the same male had 
been seen previously with male and 
female children selling candy inside 
the fraternity. On the prior occasion, 
the male was asked to leave when he 
questioned fraternity members about 
where he could buy drugs and alco
hol.
Medical 10/8/01, 7:07 PMA
CMU officer and EMS responded to 
the report of a CMU student having a 
severe nosebleed. She said the bleed
ing began after she blew her nose. 
After 15 minutes of applied pressure, 
the bleeding stopped and she refused 
further treatment. Several hours 
later, the same officer responded to a 
similar report and again found the 
female having a nosebleed. After 
being treated by EMS, she accepted 
transport to UPMC Presbyterian 
Hospital.
Unauthorized Solicitation 
10/9/01, 7:20 PM  A CMU secu
rity guard radioed police that a male
and multiple small children were 
inside the University Center selling 
candy. The responding officers 
detained the male and two small chil
dren in his company, both under ten 
years of age. The male told officers 
that they were selling candy bars for 
their schools cheerleaders, which the 
young females confirmed. The offi
cers advised the male that they were 
not permitted to solicit on campus. 
The male gathered all parties 
involved and left campus property.
Theft 10/10/01, 4 PM  CMU
police responded to a call from the 
College of Fine Arts. A delivery driver 
reported that he had left a chair he 
was delivering in front of an elevator 
and left it unattended to unload 'a 
desk. When he returned five minutes 
later, person (s) unknown had 
removed the chair from the area. Th 
chair is valued at $400. Officers conj 
ducted a search of the building for th^ 
chair with negative results. * \ I ' I
Public Drunkenness ancj 
Underage Consumption 
10/12/01, 2:51 AM  City police* 
stopped a CMU student staggering 
down Forbes. When officers asked 
the student for ID, she removed .a y Ifalse ID card and threw it into adumpster before she handed her real 
ID to the police. The city police 
retrieved and confiscated the false ID 
and cited the student for public 
drunkenness and underage con* 
sumption. CMU police transported 
the female back to her dorm and 
released her into the care of her 
roommate.
1
- Campus Sergeant Budzick reviews 
all reports prior to release.
- Only four people on The Tartan 
staff see the reports: the Editors-int 
Chief, the News Editor, and th 
staffwriter typing the report.
- All personal names of com\ 
plainants, victims, suspects, and frater-, 
nities are omitted from the printed: 
report. Ethnic descriptions and other 
personal details are given only in thie 
context of complete descriptions.
- Not every incident that occurs 
appears in the report.
Compiled by 
Jonathan Pearce
y

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 15, 2001
Phi Kaps future on CMU campus 
rests in hands of Dean Murphy
Network outage problems attributed to 
denial of service attacks by Net hackers
NETWORK, from page A1 
Server were illegally accessed or 
vandalized during the attacks. 
Denial of service attacks are 
intended to disrupt network con
nectivity for a single machine, or 
in some cases, an entire site, said 
Lerchey. They do not pose a 
threat to users privacy or data. 
However, some break-in attempts 
look like DoS attacks, or are pre
ceded by one. In those cases, if the 
break-in is successful, then users 
privacy is at risk.
Firewalls are not effective barri
ers against DoS attacks, as the fil
tering mechanisms are unable to 
distinguish between genuine and 
insidious network traffic. There 
are realistic limits as to how much 
one can do to prevent future 
occurrences of this type, said 
Lerchey who then provided an 
allegory to explain the problem. 
Consider someone being wound
ed in a drive-by shooting. There 
are limits to what they can realis
tically do to protect themselves. 
They can wear a bulletproof vest, 
but that wont protect their head, 
or stop an armor-piercing bullet. 
They cannot walk on any streets 
which have cars driving past, and 
that pretty much means that they 
have to move to a hermitage. 
Could they insist that all cars be 
searched at all times to make sure 
that people in them dont have 
guns? I guess that they could, but 
what would these searches do to 
traffic? If you had to search every 
car on the average of once a block,
it would take all day to get across available on the Internet for
town. download and use. There is not
Despite the logistical difficulmuch of a learning curve in terms
ties, Computing Services is deterof carrying out an attack; it is
mined to build up Carnegie just a matter of being bored
Mellons resistance to future enough to do it. The difficult
attacks. We are taking steps to part, I think, is in using other
mitigate our potential for future computers as fronts for your
outages, said Lerchey. attacks. Basically, it is easy to 
Computing Services monitors mess up a network, but somenetwork traffic patterns closely, what more tedious to cover up
In many, but obviously not in all, your tracks.
cases this allows us to detect and On the related note of slow netremedy such attacks before most work access, Lerchey urged users to
of our users work is disrupted, be considerate when accessing the
We are primarily focusing on network. The network at Carnegie
building better tools with which Mellon is in place to enhance and
to detect and prevent these enable Carnegie Mellon communiattacks. It should be noted that ty members to utilize computing
we do attempt to track the hackers network in the pursuit of University
down when we think that we have goals. The network allows for fast
a chance, of succeeding. In DoS communication with peers both on
attacks, the attackers typically use and off campus, makes network
a large number of hacked software installation fast and easy,
machines in various locations facilitates the transfer of data
around the Internet from which to around the world, and enables the
launch the attack. Because of the free exchange of ideas and the purlarge number of attacking IP suit of knowledge. The network is
address and multiple levels of not in place to provide fast access to
redirection on the part of the illegal MP3s, illegal movies, softattacker, such attacks are very difware piracy, or network game
ficult and time consuming to trace servers. The speed of our network
back to one individual. connectivity makes such personal
A CMU student knowledgeable activity easy to do. But to a large
in Denial of Service attacks extent, it is this issue of personal
remarked that it was not a diffifile sharing which is responsible
cult task to disrupt a specific netfor the recent degradation of net
work. Practically anyone could work performance. Remembering
carry out this kind of attack, to consider that others are using
said the student who wished to the bandwidth too should result in
remain anonymous. There are making things better and more stamany hack programs readily ble for everyone.
ty service projects have constitut
ed a major part of the fraternitys 
requirements. We have active 
relationships with the food bank, 
Salvation Army, and Big 
Brothers/Big Sisters program, 
said Romanini. We regularly 
send brothers out there to donate 
their time.
According to Romanini, no cur
rent Phi Kap members are under 
University investigation, and ties 
have been cut with all members 
involved in last years charges. Of 
the six now-deactivated members, 
two were living in Phi Kaps house 
on the quad at the time of the ille
gal occurrences last year. 
Romanini said that he is not aware 
of the current situation of the 
deactivated members and that he 
has no idea of the charges 
against them. Romanini declined 
to comment when asked for con
firmation that the former Phi Kap 
members charges had been drugrelated.
With University support, Phi 
Kap has formed a self-policing 
group to monitor the activities of 
members. Weve developed an 
in-house disciplinary committee 
we were lacking before to address 
internal problems, said 
Romanini. Were attempting to 
be more aware of everyones situ
ation so there will be no reoccur
rence [of last years incidents]. 
Romanini also said that Phi Kap 
has had no disciplinary problems 
this semester.
If Phi Kaps request to move 
back on campus is received favor
ably by Dean Murphy, the 
University will work closely with 
the fraternity members to ensure 
their compliance with CMU regu
lations. We will take the same 
precautions we do with any orga
nization, working in cooperation 
with the leadership to make sure 
that all participants are aware of 
the standards of the community 
and have the opportunity to 
develop the strength of character 
to abide by them, said Dean 
Murphy.
Brad Grantz contributed to this 
article.
on-campus location, Phi Kap par
ticipated in fall rush activities 
this semester, holding events at 
houses and restaurants off cam
pus and at the fence. Having the 
fence was a big part of [recruit
ment], said Romanini. It gave 
us a central location and kept 
our name on campus. Romanini 
did concede that rush had posed 
some unusual challenges to the 
fraternity, saying that recruit
ment dinners that would have 
previously been held on campus 
needed to be booked at off cam
pus venues. Ultimately, Phi Kap 
gained four new members as 
opposed to approximately 10 
new members the year before. It 
was definitely less than a normal 
semester, said Romanini.
Of last years approximately 45 
members, 35 lived in the house on 
the quad. This year, fraternity 
members have made other hous
ing arrangements, with a number 
of guys grouped together in offcampus housing or back in campus 
housing, said Romanini.
According to Dean Murphy, 
the earliest time that Phi Kap 
could move back into a house on 
the quad, pending his approval, 
is fall of 2002. Currently, the 
Forbes House, a cooperative 
housing initiative for first-year 
students, is located in the former 
Phi Kap house. Murphy said that 
there is not a guarantee that Phi 
Kap would be moved into their 
previously held house, but that 
a fraternity eligible to be on the 
quad would take precedence 
over the Forbes House arrange
ment, just as in the past.
If Phi Kap receives University 
permission to move back onto the 
quad next fall, they would resume 
normal status as a campus frater
nity. We should be allowed at that 
point to operate with no restric
tions against us, said Romanini.
As part of Phi Kaps current 
UDC-imposed restrictions and 
requirements, they must fulfill a 
variety of education, advising, 
and service oriented tasks, said 
Dean Murphy.
Romanini added that communi
PHIKAP, from page A1
the house  be in lieu of, rather 
than in addition to, the loss of 
Carnival privileges.
Dean Murphy said that no 
other campus fraternities, Phi 
Kap alumni, or CMU professors 
impacted the final decision to 
grant Phi Kap Carnival participa
tion in any way. I had no 
requests from any groups  fac
ulty, staff, alumni, other frater
nities  to amend any decision, 
said Dean Murphy.
I think the University thought 
that a way to show that [Phi Kap] 
is still a strong organization was 
to show that we could still partic
ipate in Carnival, said Dante 
Romanini, a junior chemistry 
major and Phi Kap president.
Phi Kap now faces the task of 
petitioning for a place back on 
the fraternity quadrangle. The 
UDC ruling last spring stipulated 
that Phi Kap may submit a 
request to Dean Murphy at the 
beginning of the 2002 spring 
semester to be permitted into a 
house on the quad. Romanini 
said that Phi Kap intends to sub
mit the request in February.
According to Renee 
Camerlengo, Director of Student 
Life, Phi Kap had the ability to 
contest the ruling that led to the 
loss of their house by appealing 
directly to the UDC last semester. 
All incidents were reviewed in 
the spring, said Camerlengo but 
no action was taken by the fra
ternity to appeal the ruling at 
that time. Phi Kap will instead 
submit a more informal request 
to Dean Murphy to ask a recon
sideration of the UDC ruling.
They need to appeal to me, 
including a summary of all edu
cation development, community 
service, leadership development, 
advising, and governance activi
ties in which they have engaged 
[over the past year] and which 
they plan to continue, said Dean 
Murphy. In sum, they need to 
satisfy my need to ensure that 
they have the maturity necessary 
to return to the quad.
Despite having no permanent
Alumni victims of terrorist attacks 
memorialized in University service
ALUMNI, from page A1 
the theater to the tennis courts, 
led by a military piper and a bag
pipe playerthe first bagpipe 
major at CMU. Upon exiting the 
building, each person was given a 
red rose to lie at the base of the 
freshly planted tulip tree. Jennifer 
Neubauer, assistant vice-presi
dent for Alumni Relations, said 
that the roses represent love and 
respect. The roses were placed at 
the base of the tree at the close of 
the ceremony.
The crowd gathered at the tree 
and listened to a reading of a 
poem entitled US, NOW, writ
ten by English and poetry profes
sor, Jim Daniels, to honor the six 
alumni. The poem was also 
inscribed on plaques that were 
given to each victims family, 
bearing a personal message 
about each individual victim. 
Sister ONeill concluded the ded
ication by offering a benedic
tion.Extremist rebel leaders in Philippines 
threaten murder of American tourists
found more than a week ago on 
Basilan, ending speculation that he 
may be alive despite the guerrillas 
claim that they beheaded him in 
June. The original threat to behead 
Sobero was also coupled with a 
demand that the army call off its 
offensive.
The United States is helping the 
Philippines train and supply 
weapons to some of the more than
7,000 Filipino soldiers pursuing the 
Abu Sayyaf on Basilan, which is 
about 560 miles south of Manila.
The army has apparently height
ened its offensive on the guerrillas 
in recent weeks and has claimed 
success. Were seeing the start of 
the end, National Security Adviser 
Roilo Golez said.
On Saturday, the fleeing guerril
las seized four farmers and behead
ed two of them. The other two 
escaped.
Early Sunday, troops rescued four 
Filipino hostages while hunting the 
Abu Sayyaf, military officials said.
ber 1,000 fighters, has kidnapped 
dozens of foreigners and Filipinos in 
recent years and raised millions of 
dollars in ransom. The group also is 
suspected of having links to Osama 
bin Laden, the Saudi exile accused 
of plotting the September 11 terror
ist attacks in the United States.
The guerrillas claim to be fighting 
for Muslim independence in the 
southern Philippines, but the gov
ernment considers them bandits.
On Monday, a man Sabaya identi
fied as Martin Burnham told RMN 
he was very tired, weak and 
scared.
Gracias feet are blistered from 
walking so much. My hands are tied 
in chains always so I wont escape, 
he said.
He appealed to the government to 
halt its intensifying offensive against 
the guerrillas on the southern island 
of Basilan, where the hostages are 
held. We cannot be saved by 
artillery, he said.
Soberos skeletal remains were
ZAMBOANGA, Philippines (AP)
 A Muslim extremist rebel leader 
threatened to behead an American 
couple before the Presidents sched
uled visit to the United States next 
month if the army does not halt its 
offensive on the group.
Abu Sabaya, a leader of the Abu 
Sayyaf rebels, warned Monday that 
he would kill Martin and Gracia 
Burnham of Wichita, Kan., to coin
cide with President Gloria
Macapagal Arroyos November 20 
visit with President Bush.
It would be very embarrassing if 
President Arroyo goes to the US 
with the bodies of Martin and 
Gracia, Sabaya told Radio
Mindanao Network by telephone.
The southern-based group
already has killed a third American, 
Guillermo Sobero of Corona, Calif. 
The Abu Sayyaf still is holding at 
least 10 Filipinos captive. The group 
was seized from a southwestern 
beach resort in May.
The Abu Sayyaf, thought to num
Ko Nakatsu/Asst. Photo Editor
Students and alumni gathered on Friday afternoon for a panel discussion about life after Carnegie Mellon
Anthrax scares in New York hit NBC 
after similar cases at Florida paper
NEW YORK (AP)  A police 
officer and two lab technicians 
involved in the NBC anthrax 
investigation have tested positive 
for the bacteria, Mayor Rudolph 
Giuliani said Sunday. Nevada offi
cials said four people who may 
have come into contact with a 
contaminated letter at a Microsoft 
office tested negative, while 
results werent known for two oth
ers.
In Washington, meanwhile, 
Health and Human Services 
Secretary Tommy Thompson said 
he considered the anthrax cases in 
New York, Nevada and Florida to 
be instances of bioterrorism. It 
certainly is an act of terrorism to 
send anthrax through the mail, 
he said on Fox News Sunday.
And Attorney General John 
Ashcroft said it was premature to 
decide whether there is a direct 
link to Osama bin Ladens terror
ist network, but we should con
sider this potential that it is 
linked.
The new New York cases 
brought to 12 the number of peo
ple around the nation who either 
have anthrax or been exposed to 
it. That does not include an NBC 
employee who is taking antibiotics
after displaying possible sympinterviewed postal workers and
toms of the disease. watched surveillance videotapes
The anthrax scare began Oct. 4 Sunday as part of their efforts to
when it was confirmed that a trace the letter, but acknowledged
Florida tabloid editor had conit would be difficult. Postal
tracted the inhaled form of the Service officials believed it could
bacteria. His death a day later was have been mailed from one of 46
the first resulting from the disease post offices, FBI Special Agent
in the United States since 1976. Sandra Carroll said.
Seven other employees of Its very complex and a very 
American Media Inc. have tested comprehensive investigation
positive for exposure and are that's a lot like looking for a neebeing treated with antibiotics, die in a haystack, Carroll said
None have developed the disease. Sunday.
A second round of blood tests for At first, OConnor thought she
more than 300 of the companys had thrown away the letter, but
employees is expected this week. remembered it Friday while being
In New York, Giuliani said the interviewed, New York postal
officer and two technicians were inspector Peter Nash said Sunday,
exposed while working on the Investigators had initially
anthrax case involving Erin focused on a second letter  postOConnor, 38, the assistant to NBC marked in St. Petersburg, Fla. 
News anchor Tom Brokaw. as the likely source of the anthrax.
OConnor is expected to recover Giuliani said the police officer
from the infection. had the bacteria in his nose, as did
OConnor was exposed when one lab technician. Another techshe opened a letter, containing a nician had a spore on her face,
brown granular substance, that Both work for the city health
was mailed to Brokaw from department, which conducted the
Trenton, N.J. It was postmarked tests.
September 18, one week after terExposure to the spores does not
rorist attacks on the World Trade mean infection and the three are
Center and Pentagon expected to be fine, Giulinai said.
Federal officials in New Jersey Their identities were not released.
In bold act, Berkeleys Student Senate 
moves to censor university newspaper
(U-WIRE) BERKELEY, Calif.  
After heated debate, the ASUC 
Senate passed a symbolic bill 
late Wednesday night with an
11-7 vote condemning The Daily 
Californian for printing a politi
cal cartoon.
The bill asks for a front-page 
apology and mandatory sensitiv
ity training for the newspaper 
staff because of a cartoon critics 
have called racist.
ASUC Senator Tony Falcone, 
one of the proposals authors, 
said the bill sent out an impor
tant message.
I think we came out on the 
side of student welfare and free 
speech because the bill is purely 
symbolic, Falcone said.
Senator Sajid Khan, also a co
author of the bill, said the non
binding resolution represents 
the Senates opinion and does 
not restrain free speech.
I think as Student Senators 
we have the right to express our 
opinion, just as the Daily Ca\ has
a right to express their opinion, 
he said.
Printed in the Daily Cal on 
September 18, the political car
toon drawn by syndicated car
toonist Darrin Bell depicts two 
men with long beards dressed in 
robes and turbans in a large 
hand amid flames. A flight man
ual sits next to one of the men. 
Bell has said the cartoon depicts 
terrorist hijackers, not Muslims 
in general.
Khan, however, said there was 
a direct correlation between the 
cartoon and Arab American stu
dents on campus being harassed.
Wajahat Ali, a member of the 
UC Berkeley Muslim Student 
Association, said he had to per
suade some Muslim women to 
continue attending school 
despite the cartoon.
Some sisters did not want to 
go to college (as a result of the 
cartoon), he said. We had to 
convince them to go.
Some Senators, such as James
Gallagher, spoke against the bill, 
saying it infringes on free 
speech.
This is a free speech issue, 
and to look at it any other way 
would be really naive, he said, 
as people in the senate gallery 
interrupted with comments like 
youre stupid and shut up.
Gallagher said the bill would 
restrict the independent student 
newspapers right to print all 
forms of speech and might lead 
to long-term negative effects.
It might come back to bite you 
in the ass, he said.
Another way to protest the 
Daily Cal is to stop reading it, 
Senator Puja Sarna said.
The ASUC bill that passed does 
not include a recommendation to 
raise the Daily CaVs rent. That 
recommendation was dropped in 
senate committee Monday.
Daily Cal Editor-in-Chief Janny 
Hu said ASUCs decision will not 
affect the editors decision not to 
apologize for the cartoon.

---------------------------------------------------

X3 800-722-tecflS wepreventorg
Were not like every 
other high-tech company. 
Were hiring.
For more information: www.siebel.com/collegeGareers
we are the world s leading provider or etfusiness Applications bortware. Lome rmci out wny.
Hteor*Strokeriof3
For more information, call 1-800-AHA-USA1 
or visit www.americanheart.org
American HeartTAARN ci ali onHi#fyirokv
Why Siebel?
Siebel Systems, Inc. is the giant in the CRM software market and, 
we are eager to continue to attract fresh minds & new ideas.
Siebel is not afraid to give responsibility to outstanding engineers.
m:
A copy of the official repstnition and financial information of United VKiy of Southwestern Pennsylvania may be obtained from 
the PA Department of -State hy callinfi toll free, within Pennsylvania, 1 (HOO) 732-0999. Registration does not imply endorsement.
No one told you the hardest part of being an engineer would be finding 
your first job. Of course, it s still possible to get the high-tech work 
you want by joining the U.S. Air Force. You can leverage your degree 
immediately and get hands-on experience with some of the most 
sophisticated technology on earth.To find out how to get your career off 
the ground, call 1-800-423-USAF or visit our Web site at airforce.com.
Are YOU at Risk?Den ialoTUETSDA
^ weaAseemGupt
fisr SO
YWNHRFI
You can help.
United Way gifts support over 300 human 
service programs that help people 
right here in our community.
Put your money where your heart is.
United Vtfey
xjy of Southwestern Pennsylvania
Do You Know 
Your Numbers?
 Your total cholesterol should be below 
200 mg/dL.
 Your blood pressure should be below 140/90 mm Hg.
Total Cholesterol
200mg/dLor lower
Blood Pressure140/90mm Hgor lower

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
15 October 3001THE TARTANPage A6
Closer look needed at student 
involvement in homecoming
In past years, Homecoming has lost its 
student focus and importance at Carnegie 
Mellon. Homecoming is one of the only 
times when alumni and students ideally 
come together to celebrate the glory of 
Carnegie. Students and alumni should 
make an effort to attend the game or a 
Homecoming show pride for their 
University. It is the time for current stu
dents to make connections with alumni 
and for alumni to share their experiences 
and stories with students. This ideal seems 
to have disappeared into the background 
here at CMU, however. Homecoming has 
instead become a time to raise money and 
receive donations.
While there are several students that are 
highly involved in Homecoming events 
and planning, the majority of the schools 
planning of the festivities is only triggered 
by the influx in alumni on campus and the 
increased number of dinners held. Part of 
the problem, though, is that all of these 
dinners and events are targeted purely 
towards the alumni, and do not encourage 
interaction between new and old students
When walking down Forbes Avenue to 
Oakland, students know when theyve 
entered the University of Pittsburgh during 
their Homecoming week. They see colorful 
balloons and inspirational signs, and, at 
night, hear fireworks in the distance. 
Students at CMU, however, see a single 
table by Purnell giving out t-shirts and a
significant increase in the attendance at 
Saturdays football game.
When we look into the history of 
Carnegie Mellon,, we read and hear about 
the days of mandatory pep rallies and 
singing the Carnegie fight song. When we 
look at the Carnegie Mellon of today, we 
are left to wonder what happened to all of 
that school pride. This weekend the alma 
matter song was not even played.
While we are not asking for required pep 
rallies, we are asking the University to turn 
some of its Homecoming focus back to the 
current students and for the students to 
take advantage of this. While the 
University can plan events geared towards 
the student population, students need 
make an effort to leave their studies and 
attend them in order to make it a success.
The University needs to do a better job 
of advertising Homecoming to young 
alumni and also current students. 
Homecoming is supposed to be a week
end to celebrate your history and make 
Carnegie Mellon stronger. Its a time for 
the new generations of Carnegie Mellon 
to connect with older generations. 
Homecoming should not be simply a 
huge fundraising event for the 
University with its alumni. If we, as the 
upcoming generation of Carnegie 
Mellon, see no school spirit, we will be 
reluctant to come back in 10 or 20 years 
for our own reunions.
Traffic jam: University needs to 
upgrade Internet connection
As Internet connectivity issues continue 
to plague the Carnegie Mellon community, 
bandwidth-hungry students are growing 
increasingly frustrated by disappointing 
network speeds. Slow network connec
tions are not mere annoyances, but 
become real problems for a school like 
CMU that relies heavily on the Internet. 
From its necessity as a research tool to the 
growing popularity of online academic ser
vices like Blackboard and TartanTRAK, the 
Internet plays an important role in the 
career of any CMU student. Thus, when 
the CMU network lags, student productivi
ty inevitably suffers.
We are approaching the middle of the 
semester and it is clear that Computing 
Services must expedite its efforts to find a 
suitable solution for the schools current 
network woes. Having effectively elimi
nated the possibility of investing any fur
ther dollars into bandwidth expansion, 
Computing Services is left to develop alter
native remedies for the crippling conges
tion. While Computing Services has imple
mented a few temporary expedients, like 
setting export limits on the residence halls, 
it has yet to devise a long-term fix.
Other universities have made innovative 
initiatives to manage network usage. For 
instance, the Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology publishes a list of the top net
work users and then limits connectivity for 
whole groups of students when individual 
users exceed their limit. With the informa
tion of individual network usage made 
public, MIT students can police them
selves. Another such program has been 
established at Indiana University where a 
student-run organization monitors net
work traffic and enforces the proper codes
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellons Student Newspaper Since 1906 
EDITORIAL BOARD
ASEEM GUPTA and SARA STILLE 
Editors-in-Chief
BRAD GRANTZ, Managing Editor 
SARA HENNEBERGER, News Editor 
CHRISTINA KOSHZOW, Forum Editor 
BALAJI SARPESHKAR, Sports Editor 
BETH POWELL, Arts & Living Editor 
SRIRAM VAIDHYANATHAN, Science & Tech. Ed. 
ROBERT FETTERMAN, Business Editor 
JONATHAN PEARCE, Comics Editor 
BEHNAM FARAHPOUR, Photo Co-Editor 
SHAINA MCGRATH, Photo Co-Editor 
ERICA DiBENEDETTO, Art Editor 
SERENA LAM, Online Design Editor 
JUSTIN SUISSA, Dossier Design Editor 
JASON SUROVY, Acting Online Editor 
ANISH KUMAR, Advertising Manager
JENNIFER LIU, Business Manager 
KRISTIN LALA, Copy Co-Manager 
EMMA REHM, Copy Co-Manager 
JOHN DAVIN, Production Manager 
LANCE BROWN, Systems Manager 
BETTY KIM, Darkroom Manager 
DEBBIE HALPERN, Personnel Manager 
CHRIS CHUNG, Special Projects Manager 
KO NAKATSU, Asst. Photo Editor 
PETER WANG, Asst. Darkroom Manager 
PAUL RICHELMI, Asst. Entertainment Editor
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Matt Brun, Sriram Gollapalli, Ish Harshawat, 
Bryan Kaplan, Cassandra Knight
Erica DiBenedetto/Art Editor
New bills severely limit citizens privacy
John Davin
of conduct. In addition, Computing 
Services could further explore the use of 
technologies that prioritize the flow of var
ious data types through the schools net
work, allocating higher priority to more 
critical transfers. While these solutions 
may not be a perfect fit for CMU, 
Computing Services should be exploring 
them and working to modify this to meet 
the needs of CMU students.
As Computing Services can only do so 
much, it is imperative that there be student 
involvement in the improvement of net
work connectivity. Student-driven peer-topeer traffic, specifically the outflow of 
files, has been the main contributor to 
campus network problems as cited by 
Computing Services. If students are going 
to engage in peer-to-peer transfers, some 
restrictions must be put in place to reduce 
the strain on network resources. It is easy 
to limit the number of concurrent uploads 
on any of the popular peer-to-peer plat
forms. Some peer-to-peer programs  
like Gnutella-based Limewire, BearShare 
and Kazaa  even allow users to set the 
percentage of bandwidth devoted to 
uploads. Students savvy enough to set up 
their own FTP servers can also restrict the 
number of simultaneously connected users 
and the number of files each can down
load. By imposing these reasonable limits, 
students can still maintain their filesharing 
activities while working to mitigate net
work congestion.
If every member of the campus commu
nity does his or her part, Computing 
Services and students alike  network 
connectivity can only improve, thus ensur
ing that everyone has the level of network 
access they need.
In a crushing blow to my already low 
estimation of Congresss ability to make 
wise choices, legislators have once again 
disappointed me. Instead of invoking fear 
in the hearts of terrorists, Congresss new 
anti-terrorism legislation is terrorizing the 
beliefs of civil liberties advocates across 
the country. Late Thursday night, the 
Senate passed the USA Act, and on Friday 
the House of Representatives passed a 
similar bill. The USA Act was approved 
with an overwhelming vote of 96 to 1.
The lone resistance came from Senator 
Russ Feingold who proposed three amend
ments that would limit the new surveil
lance powers enacted by the bill. All three 
amendments were flady rejected. Senator 
Orrin Hatch called Feingolds amendments 
outdated and nonsensical. Now, 
although Im sure it would shock Senator 
Hatch, I believe these amendments were 
not completely preposterous. The First 
Amendment proposed that the roving wire 
tap provision be modified to say that 
authorities can only listen to a phone tap if 
the person using it is the terrorist suspect 
and not an innocent person. For example, 
the FBI may decide to tap a row of 20 pay 
phones in an airport because they are 
tracking a suspected terrorist there. 
Feingolds amendment would have 
required that the FBI listen in only on a 
conversation involving the suspect. 
Apparently this common sense privacy pro
tection was too outdated and nonsensical 
for other senators. It must be the case that 
a reasonable expectation of privacy is now 
an outdated concept in America.
There are many Americans who would 
respond with the common argument: 
Well, you shouldnt mind if you have noth
ing to hide. This response is weak at best, 
and extremely dangerous at worst. The 
Constitution explicitly requires warrants 
for situations exactly like this. Once you 
start giving up your rights, you have no 
right to keep the remainder of them. As 
Benjamin Franklin said, Those who give 
up essential liberties for temporary safety 
deserve neither liberty nor safety.
In another one of his amendments, 
Feingold proposed the removal of a section 
of the bill that allows law enforcement to 
search homes and offices without notifying 
the owner first. The Constitution mandates 
that suspects be served a warrant prior to 
executing a search. Feingold called this sec
tion of the USA Act unconstitutional and 
pointed out that the Senators had sworn an 
oath to uphold the Constitution and Bill of 
Rights. Yet they still rejected his amend
ment. Ninety-six Senators violated their 
oath of office with little more than a few 
regrets. Perhaps I should not be surprised 
by this. Perhaps I should not expect more 
from the people who have the greatest 
power to shape our countrys destiny. Yet
in my idealism, I do expect more  
because the Senate has no excuse for sum
marily dismissing Feingolds rational and 
intelligent proposals. There is no good rea
son why the Senate could not have spent a 
few days more considering the implica
tions of the USA Act. If we rush ahead with 
legislation, throwing caution and rational 
debate out the window, we will come to 
regret these decisions.
To make matters worse, the USA Act 
includes no expiration date. It does not 
have a sunset provision as the House bill 
does. I see this as indicating that the USA 
Act will be around for an unknown amount 
of time. It may be a permanent change to 
the civil liberties of the American popula
tion. It is much harder to repeal legislation 
than to enact it because it will be forgotten 
or not considered worth the effort to repeal. 
A sunset provision would have accounted 
for this problem by requiring Congress to 
renew the bill in a few years or let it expire 
if its purpose had been served. The Bush 
administration is opposed to a sunset 
clause. They probably reason that terrorism 
will be around forever and therefore the 
government agencies will always need 
these increased powers. I dont know about 
you, but I am not willing to accept indefinite 
loss of our constitutionally-granted rights.
While these restrictions may not imme
diately affect all of us, there is one that 
could pertain to University students. 
Feingolds fourth amendment, which he 
never raised to the Senate because of the 
outright failure of his previous three, was 
intended to limit the scope of a section 
regarding computer trespasser communi
cations. The section is intended to allow 
agencies to monitor terrorists who are ille
gally using computers for communication.
act was an indication of a lack of concern 
for stopping terrorism.
The American Civil Liberties Union has 
expressed that it is bitterly disappointed 
with the Senate and House bills. 
According to Laura W. Murphy, director 
of the ACLU Washington National Office, 
Most Americans do not recognize that 
Congress has just passed a bill that would 
give the government expanded power to 
invade our privacy, imprison people with
out due process and punish dissent. The 
bill passed by the House was a modified 
version of the PATRIOT act. The House 
GOP replaced most of the PATRIOT act, a 
bill that had undergone significant revi
sions to protect civil liberties, with parts 
of the Senate USA Act.
This effort to rush legislation through 
Congress is shameful and foolish. Neither 
bill was given adequate time for debate or 
consideration of protective measures. The 
procedures used to get these bills passed 
reek of deceptive and oppressive practices. 
Legislators in the House complained that 
the House GOP leadership had forced a 
vote without giving time to review the 175- 
page document. Early on Friday morning, 
top House Republicans met privately and 
abruptly agreed to use the Senates USA Act 
instead of the more moderate bill that had 
been expected. Barney Frank, a representa
tive from Massachusetts, protested: What 
we have today is an outrageous procedure: 
A bill, drafted by a handful of people in 
secret, comes to us without a committee 
review and immune to amendment.
The Senate and House bills grant the 
CIA and other federal agencies greatly 
expanded powers. Yet we must be careful 
that the law is not abused. Up until the 
mid-1970s, the CIA spied on as many as
It must be the case that a reasonable 
expectation of privacy is now an outdated 
concept in America.
However, the section could also allow uni
versities, libraries, and employers to 
authorize government surveillance of peo
ple who are authorized to use their com
puter facilities. This section could be inter
preted to mean that a minor transgression 
of an office or library computer use policy 
could be treated as computer trespassing. 
For example, a university that has a policy 
against downloading MP3s on campus 
computers could possibly use the bill to spy 
on student computer activities.
Perhaps the saddest part of all this is that 
Senator Feingolds reward for having the 
courage to stand up for what he believed in 
will most likely be a severe blow to his 
career. He was the only one to vote against 
the USA Act, a fact that will most likely be 
twisted and distorted by his opponents 
when he is up for reelection in 2004. His 
opponents will claim that his vote against 
the Uniting and Strengthening America
7,000 Americans in Operation CHAOS. 
This operation in the 1960s and early 
1970s involved spying on people who 
opposed the war in Vietnam, or were stu
dent activists or so-called black national
ists. As a result of this large-scale abuse of 
authority, the powers of the CIA were 
restricted and safeguards were put in 
place. The USA Act and House bill are a 
significant step towards reducing these 
checks and balances. The hasty way in 
which the bills were pushed through 
Congress implies that legislators can not 
possibly have taken enough time to con
sider the bills dangerous implications.
In this time of difficulty, we must be 
careful that in providing for national 
security, we do not sacrifice basic and 
essential rights.
John Davin is a sophomore computer sci
ence major.
Nothing can be perfect, America included
David M. Anderson
The First Amendment is the idiot protec
tion act of the United States. No one is forced 
to be silent about viewpoints that they may 
hold, nor are they forced to listen to oppos
ing viewpoints of others (with the exception 
of public education); beliefs are personal 
and diverse, as no one is forced to believe or 
not believe in a public space. I have a right to 
write, and all publishers have the right to 
refuse my writing if they disagree with me. 
This is freedom, this is the creative anarchy 
that has made the United States into the
most fascinating and interesting nation in 
the world. The freedom to explore ideas and 
to be intelligent, the freedom to be narrow
minded and purposefully ignorant, these 
freedoms are the only thing that makes the 
United States exceptional.
Timothy Lo, in a column printed in 
the October 8, 2001 edition of The 
Tartan, argues that this freedom has 
caused America shame and weakness. 
He argues that the Constitution is not 
the absolute law of the land, but that 
there is some undefined higher law 
derived solely from nature. I could 
agree with him if he stated that the 
theoretical underpinnings of the 
Constitution emerged from the 
Enlightenments conflicts over the purpose of human nature. However, 
instead, he goes on a different track. 
He argues that America is always right 
within natural law because we exem
plify it the best.
Once he begins to argue from this 
track, it becomes absurd. I must dis
claim to the public that I am a north
eastern liberal, and I love this country 
for I fully acknowledge that I probably 
could not be doing what I am doing at 
this moment and enjoying my life to the 
extent that I am if I was living anywhere 
other than the United States. However, 
we as a society must be willing to face 
history and to face different opinions 
with an openness that Mr. Lo seems to 
See ANDERSON, page A8

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 15, 2001
One Nation, Ungrateful
But, Seriously,...
by: Sean Mintus
------------------------------j-----
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since igo6
STAFFWRITERS 
Dave Anderson, Burt Bacharach, Krissy 
Choi, Lindsay Clark, Cam Crews, Ryan 
Friedman, LaRita Hamilton, Justin Ker, 
Colin McCabe Ryan Hamilton, Charles 
Martin, Sean Mintus, Jennifer Resick, 
Christian Restifo, R.J. Sikdar, Vivek 
Sridharan
ART
Matthew Blum, Jamie Divine, Adam 
Grossi, Reagan Heller, Alissa Taylor
COMICS
Warit Achavanuntakul, Avinash Baliga, 
Kevin Burns, Martin Hock, Ann Lewis, To 
Han Lu, Neal Martin, Jason Slater, Zac 
Smith
PHOTO
Katie Aerni, Jen Aivone, Sally Bozzuto, 
Jeremy Canceko, Robert Chiu, Jeff 
Cullers, Anthony DAuria, Jeff Easter, 
Sofia Gutierr, Andrew Hsu, Matthew 
Lanken, Shanmei Lim, Nuri Miller, 
Michael Raisman, Lindsay Spriggs, Gary 
Tsai, John Whiteman
DARKROOM
Eric Barker, Erica Barnes, Eve Chen
PRODUCTION 
A.R. Abid, Ekta Agrawal, Michael 
Castellana, Eve Chen, Jen Cheng, Lisa 
Gentry, Nithya George, Gautam Jain, Joy 
Lee, Julie Ludwick, Jonathan Minkowitz, 
Aarthi Padmanabhn, Knot Pipatsrisawat, 
Yeming Shi, Neal Shyam, Nat Torut
COPY
Joyce Boss, Michael Croland, Claire 
Jauregui, Alexander Meseguer, Kristen 
Romonovich, Laura Vaillancourt, Julie 
Watt, Jeremy Wortman
JUNIOR STAFF 
Adam Atkinson, Aditya Agrawal, Pratik 
Agarwal, Sharad Bajaj, Andy Baker, 
Fatima Boujarwah, Mayank Bubna, 
Jonathan Brathwaite, Amanda Chase, 
Nina Durai, Kathleen Fischer, Arthur Goh, 
Pearl Goodman, Alissa Green, Christopher 
Kim, Justin Ker, John King, Maria 
LaMendola, Tiffany Lee, Elizabeth Levin, 
Colin McCabe, Julia Myers, Tejas Pathak, 
Surya Singh, Sinduja Sriniavasan
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during the 
fall and spring semesters, at no cost to mem
bers of the University community. It is print
ed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. 
Subscriptions are available for the semester 
or academic year. The editorials appearing at 
the beginning of the opinion section are the 
official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. 
Columns and political cartoons are the opin
ions of individual creators. The Tartan 
reserves the right to reject or condense any 
column or political cartoon. Letters to the 
Editor are opinions of authors who are usual
ly, but not necessarily, members of the 
University community. A letter intended for 
publication must be signed and include the 
writers address and'phone number for verifi
cation. Names may be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan requests that letters be 
no longer than 350 words. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Letters to the Editor must be submit
ted by 5 pm the Thursday before publica
tion. Copyright  2001 by The Tartan. The 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication. Office: University 
Center Room 314. Phone: 412/268-2111. 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213- 
3890.
Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress 
ISSN#:0890-3107.
The Tartan is a member of 
the Associated Press.
T HEARNOLR NHMOMNO
Compiled by Sally Bozzuto 
Photos by Sally Bozzuto
Its good. A lot of people dont grow 
up knowing about other backgrounds 
and can say inconsiderate things.
Tis true that we are in great danger;
The greater therefore should our courage be. 
 William Shakespeare, King Henry V
This country was founded on a notion so unique and novel at the 
time of its creation that not even the men signing our Constitution 
could bring themselves to follow it. It was a frail outline of tolerance 
and compassion and love for ones fellow man so powerful at the 
core that its taken us over two hundred years to come anywhere 
close to espousing it properly.
Those men believed that everyone who was a citizen of our nation 
was free to speak his or her mind, that one had the inalienable right 
to worship whichever God they chose, to confer with whomever 
they wanted, and to protect their thoughts, prayers, and honor with 
every waking breath.
And some of you are messing it all up.
There are a lot of opinions on the best course of action to take in 
response to September 11. While I would never deprive anyone of 
their right to speak their mind, I certainly wont keep my mouth shut 
when their opinions happen to piss me off. Know what? Ive got a col
umn and you dont. So youll just have to hold back that whiny agen
da of yours and listen to every word I have to say. Or turn the page. 
Either way, its no skin off my ass. Im furious and I have a public 
forum in which to express my ideals and you dont. Time to dance.
I noticed the message NOW WHO ARE THE TERRORISTS? paint
ed in bold letters on the fence not too long ago. The thought that any
one in a proper state of mind could think the current Allied military 
undertaking is in any way akin to September 11 made my stomach 
jump halfway up to my throat. I wished that whomever did it was still 
around when I got there so I could have spit in their face and called 
them a traitorous coward and an insult to Americans everywhere.
Do you people not understand what is going on? Our country was 
attacked. A faceless villain snuck out of the night and landed a 
fierce blow to the heart of democracy. Now, after showing infinite 
patience and exhausting every last diplomatic option at their dis
posal, our leaders have chosen to respond with force in an attempt 
to keep anything like this from ever happening again so long as our 
flag flies. Where is your loyalty? Where is your conscience? This 
country gave you everything that you have. And now, in its darkest 
hour, you criticize it for defending itself and its citizens. I am 
ashamed to consider you my brethren.
A note to everyone who has criticized Americas armed response to 
the terrorist attacks of a month ago: Shut your cake holes, you 
pompous, spoiled, ungrateful swine. Do you know how lucky you 
are? Have you any idea how much God has graced you? How many 
people on this earth do you think go through their day with as much 
confidence in their governments ability to protect them as you do? 
How many people on this earth know that if they lose their job or are 
horribly injured in some ungodly industrial accident, their govern
ment will take care of them? Not too damn many.
Now, with half of New York in ruins, a hole in the side of the 
Pentagon, and a smoldering crater 40 miles away, some of you think 
yourselves high and mighty enough to chastise your government for 
seeking out those who have wronged us and punishing them. Im 
sorry, but I fail to follow.
You live under the protective umbrella of the United States. 
Anywhere else in the world  where human life often possesses 
roughly the material worth of a bag of stones  someone WILL think 
twice before putting steel to your head and pulling the trigger. Not 
because youre pretty or well dressed or crying your pathetic eyes 
out, but because you are an American. And they know that killing an 
American is not something that is taken lightly by other Americans.
Why? Because it is in our nature to value human life above all other 
things. Its just the way we are. You doubt me? Think about how you 
felt at about 11am on September 11. You were ready to cry, werent 
you? Of course you were. I sure as hell was. Thousands of innocent 
people had just died in a horrible and cowardly act that had absolute
ly nothing to do with any of them, and our nation, in one massive sigh, 
broke down and mourned our loss. Not because a bunch of concrete 
collapsed or because billions of dollars were lost, but because so many 
people who wanted nothing more than to earn a days wage were 
mercilessly cut down for no good reason.
Id like to think that I understand the motivation behind these 
opinions. Having witnessed such a horrible act of violence carried 
out on civilians, nobody would want to know that their country, even 
in a reactionary sense, was responsible for anything remotely similar. 
Of course we dont want to see innocent people die at the hands of 
the US military. But the military is not attacking innocent people. 
They are bombing military targets, bastions of the very hatred and 
cowardice that caused last months tragedy. They are incinerating 
terrorist training camps and strafing military runways, not toasting 
hospitals and fire bombing elementary schools. And theyre damn 
sure not going to use commercial aircraft to do it.
Yes, people will die. Such is war. A week ago, our military sent our 
bombers to kill a bunch of guys who weve never had the pleasure of 
meeting personally. Why? Because they were either connected to an 
unprecedented attack on America or were at that moment training to 
carry out more of the same.
The problem with this whole deal is that the perception is skewed. 
This isnt really punishment. Bomb them, put them in jail, hang them in
See MINTUS, page A8
Stuck in the middle: Too old for Seventeen, too foxy for elastic
LaRita Y. Hamilton
I think Im getting old.
I went to a department store with 
my roommate last weekend to buy a 
pair of jeans. I try not to wear denim 
everyday because Im trying to pro
mote a more mature air about 
myself. Two weeks prior to my trip 
downtown, I happened to be wearing 
my most responsible looking pair of 
jeans when I realized that there was a 
huge rip in the ass. Now, I asked my 
roommate why the hell she didnt tell 
me and her response was that she 
thought I was trying to make a fashion 
statement. Im too old for that! I 
screamed. I was mortified. To this day, 
I have no idea how long I walked 
around campus with tangerine grand
ma panties showing. When one wears 
responsible pants, one must wear 
responsible underwear. But I digress.
I took this same roommate with 
me to a department store to replace 
my jeans. Having spent the last year 
in Italy, I hadnt been in a depart
ment store in a while. Silly me, I 
headed for the juniors section. I 
found a couple of pairs of jeans I 
liked and I headed to the dressing 
room. I got my size: a 7.
Not one pair of the pants I took off 
the rack fit me. I had problems getting 
them around my ass yet when I got 
them up the waist was too large. 
Now, my roommate is frequently teas
ing me for what she calls my big fat 
booty, but this was strange. I looked 
at myself in the mirror and I looked 
the same as I ever did. I was still foxy.
Yet how was it that these jeans did 
not fit me? In my earlier days, I 
would have gone back out to the 
floor and tried again. But this time, I 
emerged from the dressing room 
with a new perspective on life. It 
was like looking at the juniors sec
tion with a new pair of eyes. I looked 
around and I realized that the other 
shoppers were about oh, say ... 14, 
and there were a lot of parents wan
dering around with looks on their 
faces that I sympathized with. My 
roommate was standing by the esca
lator with her arms crossed. We 
looked at each other and I knew that 
we had come to the same realiza
tion. At 21, the juniors section is not 
for us any more.
But I needed a pair of jeans. We 
went to the womens section. I mean 
no disrespect to anyone when I say 
this, but I just dont feel that Im at a 
point in my life where Im comfort
able with the idea of wearing jeans 
with elastic in the waist. That was all 
I found in the womens section. Did I 
really need elastic in the waist of 
my jeans?
I wont lie. The feeling that I felt 
that day was one that I was all too 
familiar with. It was just like when I 
was about 16 and I realized that I 
was too old for Seventeen. That 
was when I started reading
Cosmopolitan. I stopped reading that 
at 20. I have since moved on to 
Martha Stewart Living.
So maybe youre thinking that I 
should just go on a diet. Its not that 
simple. Do you not understand that 
it is not an easy transition from the 
bright cartoon colors of the juniors 
section that blares music videos to 
the womens section where I find 
myself comparing prices with
women that remind me of my grand
mother? I love my grandmother 
with all of my heart but I really dont 
want us to have matching outfits. 
Why are there such polar opposites 
with no in between?
I see high school students and I hear 
their conversations when Im in the 
mall. I wish the most difficult decision 
I had to make were whether I wanted 
to be a cheerleader or not. Now, I stay 
awake wondering whether I should 
get life insurance or not.
I could just go to the mall and get 
a pair of jeans at Express or Lerners, 
but Ill have to go early if I want to 
escape the crowds and all the teenyboppers who are so fond of hanging 
out at the mall.
Is it just me, or do I sound like a 
crabby old woman? I dont feel like a 
woman. Being 21 with 1 1/2 semes
ters until graduation is a hard place to 
be. I refuse to buy a new pair of jeans. 
There is only one way to handle this 
and that is evasion, pure and simple. 
Until then, I will only buy shoes.
Class of 2002, we are not kids anymore. I suspect that we havent been 
for a while and our parents have just 
been waiting for us to walk into the 
juniors department and discover 
that we have big fat booties. 
Metaphorically speaking, of course.
LaRita Y. Hamilton is a senior cre
ative writing major. Stay foxy! is the 
only advice she has to give. And yes, she 
finally did find a pair of jeans that fit.
We went to the womens section. I mean 
no disrespect... but I just dont feel that 
Im at a point in my life where Im com
fortable with the idea of wearing jeans 
with elastic in the waist.
Ziyuan Wang Matt Kofke Arunash Gupta
First-year student Junior Sophomore
Business Chemistry Art
People should do it themselves. I think this country is largely By watching [sensitivity training] 
They dont need companies to tell them unaware of other cultures, so sensitizavideos, even if youre a bigot, youll
what to do. tion is a good thing. internalize what is on the video.
Jamie Davidson
First-year student 
Political Science
How do you prevent misunderstandings before they happen? Students reflect on 
diversity awareness at work:
Naomi McAdams
Sophomore
Undecided
I dont have a problem with it. But it 
should be voluntary.
How do you feel about sensitivity training incorporate America?

---------------------------------------------------

A8THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 15, 2001
No vacancy: American democratic 
society has no room for conservatism
tkot
Andy Baker
Conservatism. The word brings to mind powerful images. 
These include images of people such as Pat Robertson, Jerry 
Falwell, and Jesse Helms, images of major issues such as 
abortion, homosexual rights, and civil liberties, and images 
of events such as Bush v. Gore, Watergate, and the assault on 
the National Endowment for the Arts. Such images are pow
erful, and in many cases frightening. But are they an accurate 
depiction of conservatism  specifically, American conser
vatism? I would argue that they are indeed highly accurate, 
and this accuracy makes them all the more disturbing. This is 
not what the Founding Fathers had in mind when they began 
the American experiment in democracy. In this article, I will 
attempt to elucidate the reasons why conservatism, as it is 
practiced in the United States, is not a viable ideology in any 
democratic society.
First of all, it is necessary for me to define the central tenets 
of the American brand of conservatism. Based on what Ive 
seen of conservative lobbying groups in action, American 
conservatism functions on six key elements. These elements 
define the parameters under which a large portion of conser
vative groups operate. Conservatives in America would like 
to see the following happen in America: the discrimination 
against and persecution of homosexuals, the union of con
servative Christianity with the State, oppressively heavy cen
sorship of all media and curtailment of free speech, curtail
ment of civil liberties, categorical rejection of modern sci
ence, scientific methods and statistical principles, and the 
reduction of bloated government bureaucracy. There are 
major problems and inconsistencies inherent in all six ele
ments, as I will now attempt to demonstrate.
To start off, lets examine the idea put forth by conserv
atives that homosexuality deserves to be oppressed. 
Consider the following. In a public address on October 4, 
Reverand Louis P. Sheldon, chairman of the Traditional 
Values Coalition, urged relief agencies to withhold aid 
from the surviving partners of gay victims of the 
September 11 attacks, calling it just another example of 
how the gay agenda is seeking to overturn the one manone woman relationship from center stage in America, 
taking advantage of this tragedy. The idea of a gay agen
da is not uncommon among conservatives, as Pat 
Robertson and Jerry Falwell and Dr. James Dobson have 
often spoken out against the gay conspiracy in their 
public broadcasts. Conservatives are also vehemently 
opposed to any hate crimes legislation that defines a hate 
crime as including the crime being based on a persons 
sexual orientation. Senator No, Jesse Helms, often does 
everything in his power to obstruct or defeat appoint
ments of individuals to key diplomatic positions simply 
because of their sexual orientation. In addition, they are 
opposed to legalizing gay unions, arguing that it gives 
homosexuals special rights. However, one cannot con
sistently argue that gay rights legislation is superfluous 
when one is trying to enact similar legislation with regard 
to the conservative version of Christianity, as I will discuss 
later. Needless to say, attempts by conservatives to perse
cute homosexuals is in violation of not just the Ninth 
Amendment, but the very idea expressed by the 
Declaration of Independences assertion that all men are 
created equal, without regard to race, gender, creed or 
sexual orientation.
Conservatives also would like to see their interpretation of 
Christianity (which I would argue is a very bad, if not a false 
interpretation of Christianity) united with the State. This is 
seen in their attempts to impose school-mandated or studentled prayer in public classrooms and at school functions, and in 
their attempts to introduce creationism into public school sci
ence classrooms, and in the court battles over displaying the 
Ten Commandments. Unfortunately, this violates the establish
ment clause of the First Amendment. Even worse, there is his
torical precedent for believing that theocracy would inevitably 
violate the First Amendments freedom of practice clause  
just look at what the Taliban has done for Afghanistan. And 
yet, conservatives want to repeat the process here.
Another element of American conservatism that is very 
bad for democracy is the tendency of conservatives to want 
to oppress all forms of speech that they dont agree with, 
no matter the media that it comes in. However, this is in 
violation of the free speech and free press provisions of the 
First Amendment. It is also inconsistently applied, for if we 
were to censor all dangerous speech then we would 
have to censor conservative extremists like www.godhatesfags.com and www.christiangallery.com. In addition, 
conservatives have constantly challenged literature used in
English classes all across America, arguing that they have a 
bad influence on children. What conservatives refuse to 
recognize, however, is that teachers have two main reasons 
for exposing children to such works. They wish to develop 
the students critical thinking skills by having children dis
cuss the issues raised by such literature, giving them the 
tools to deal with the complex issues that they are likely to 
face in the real world. They also want kids to develop a 
love of reading a wide variety of literature; in particular, 
works that have achieved wide literary acclaim. To deny 
students access to such works is to stunt their learning and 
development at a critical time in their lives.
Another cornerstone of conservative ideology is the cur
tailment of civil liberties, especially where national security 
concerns are involved. They wish to give law enforcement 
vastly expanded powers to peep into the private lives of lawabiding citizens, as evidenced by the controversy that sur
rounded Carnivore, and the recently passed terrorism legis
lation, which is so loosely worded that many egregious vio
lations of civil liberties could potentially result. And yet 
again, this key feature of conservatism is in conflict with 
both the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence. 
It violates both the Ninth and Fourth Amendments, and con
tradicts the Declaration of Independence, which reads that 
people have the inalienable rights to life, liberty and the 
pursuit of happiness.
Conservatism also seeks to overthrow the scientific prin
ciples that made this country a world power. Every battle of 
the scientific theory of evolution vs. biblical literalism rep
resented by creationism and creation science from the 1925 
Scopes trial to Kansas 1999 decision (which was later 
reversed) to remove the teaching of evolution from the 
states science curriculum has been powered by conserva
tive Christians seeking to categorically deny that which 
does not fit their strict definition of Christianity. In addi
tion, conservatives have this annoying tendency to fly in the 
face of accepted statistical analysis methods. For instance, 
the National Right to Life Committee jumped on an 
ABCNews.com poll conducted on September 6-10, 2000 that 
indicated a plurality of people opposed legalizing RU-486 
(45-47 percent). What they neglected to mention, conve
niently or otherwise, was that the 2 percent difference was 
inside the polls margin of error of +/- 3 points. This means 
that the results are statistically insignificant. The Web site 
of Americans for Purity, a conservative group opposed to all 
things regarding masturbation, contains a graph that 
attempts to causally link masturbation with crime. Their 
violation of proper statistical analysis? Assuming that cor
relation implies causation.
There is also the issue of conservatives wanting to trim the 
bloated government bureaucracy, characterized the rhetoric 
of the Ronald Reagan campaign  Well get government off 
your back, and out of your life. While this is indeed a noble 
goal, as a lean, more efficient government would, in theory, 
be able to run the country more efficiently, conservatives 
have perverted it and twisted it to their own ends, mainly 
because they fail to apply it consistently. For instance, as 
comedian George Carlin so succinctly puts it, When it comes 
to abortion, they dont mind government being in a womans 
uterus, do they? Conservative drug policy follows a similar 
cognitive dissonance. They make enforcement so restrictive, 
and focused solely on the supply, and then they wonder why 
the drug cartels make a killing (literally and figuratively) off 
of a demand that has not slacked off significantly since the 
inception of the War on Drugs.
Finally, I would like to address some of the points made 
in Timothy Los article in last weeks issue of The Tartan. 
Lo states that Liberalism of the 60s to the present has 
long disqualified America of the status of a moral giant. 
Does he need to be reminded of the idea of manifest des
tiny that called upon Americans to conquer the continent 
in the name of Christianity, and anyone who may have 
been here first be damned? Conservative thought also led 
to the discrimination against women throughout much of 
American history and continues to be echoed in the com
mentary of people like Pat Robertson. Unfortunately for 
Lo, the sentiments that came to be expressed in modern 
conservatism disqualified America long before even the 
1960s. Lo also comments on the prayer service in the 
Pentagon shortly after the terrorist attack, declaring that 
for the first time in decades, Americans could pray ... 
wherever they wanted, whenever they wanted. Mr. Lo, 
Americans have always had that right  its called the First 
Amendment. Its the attempts of conservative Christians to 
unify their theology with government of a population that 
holds diverse religious beliefs (even the lack of belief) that 
worries groups like the ACLU.
Andy Baker is a senior majoring in information systems. He 
welcomes all responsible replies to his article.
Diversity, not fear, makes America great
ANDERSON, from page A6 
ish to deny. The United States is not 
erfect, it is good but it is not perfect, 
e have room to improve as a country 
nd past mistakes that we must recogize instead of either lobotomize of 
alsely mythologize.
Mr. Lo is correct in pointing out 
hat the United States is vastly freer 
han Iraq, Afghanistan, or China but 
e is incorrect that in being in a supeior position on a non-absolute scale 
f freedom to any one nation autoatically makes the United States 
lways right in everything that it 
oes. The current military campaign 
hat is occurring in Afghanistan is as 
orally correct as any other war can 
e, following the ethics of jus bellum. 
owever, Mr. Lo asserts that the 
nited States does not jail non-crimials, and here he is wrong. I ask him 
o explain why so many non-violent 
rug offenders are imprisoned, or 
by the United States has the highest 
carceration rate of any industrialed nation, or why Vanessa Leggett 
imprisoned for exercising her 
irst Amendment rights. The United 
tates is not perfect; nothing can 
e perfect.
People are imperfect, liberals are 
perfect, and conservatives are
w *
imperfect. The world is not black and 
white. Mr. Los worldview harkens to. 
America, love it or leave it. Mr. Lo is 
correct in his assertions that Saddam 
Hussein has survived for the past ten 
years despite intense suffering 
among the common people of Iraq. 
However, his analysis is incorrect. 
The sanctions were imposed in order 
to place enough pressure on Hussein 
to make him either step down or be 
removed by a coup. History has 
shown that ruthless dictators, which 
he is, do not care about popular will. 
History has also shown that sanctions 
do not work (please see the democra
tic government of Cuba for the best 
example, or Iran, Iraq, or North 
Korea... ). Once we tried sanctions 
and realized that we could not 
achieve our policy goals, we should 
have attempted something else to 
either accomplish the policy goal, or 
changed our policy goals. Since we 
have not changed either our goal or 
our policy, we therefore bear a 
degree of responsibility for the suf
fering of the innocents. Mr. Lo is 
guilty of simplifying the world 
too much, and performing single 
component analysis instead of utiliz
ing a systems approach towards 
the world.
Finally, I must disagree with the 
expression of joy that Mr. Lo has when 
he says that If one good thing can be 
gleaned from the horrors of September 
11, it would have been the silencing of 
the ACLU. The ACLU is one of the 
proudest expressions of American 
exceptionalism. Where else can you 
have intense critics of the status quo 
defend the despised and the outcasts? 
It has been liberal and radical individu
als, movements and groups such as the 
ACLU that has allowed the United 
States to become exceptional, and to 
more closely fulfill the intent of the 
founders of this nation, to become one 
nation where all men are created 
equally. Different views are needed, 
and liberal groups have made this 
country stronger by allowing for 90 
percent of Americans to believe in 
some higher power, through 2,300 reli
gious groups and by 280,000 different 
local meeting places. Mr. Lo, in my 
opinion, should remember that it is our 
diversity, our creative destruction that 
has made America great instead of a 
fear-based ideology against experi
ments and change.
David M. Anderson is a first-year AMP 
sudentat the Heinz School. He welcomes all 
responsible replies to his article.
good god.l
wnatisit good for? experimental technology.
say it again.
war. uh. goodgod;what is it good for?
a distraction from recession.
say it again.
war. uh. good god what is it good for? the furthering of "big brother".
say it again and again and again and again.
'Yi^a/iviAJiLit->t47ULuZj^
Guilty Pleasures?
Kathleen A. Fischer
The security and newly falsified angst that 
our generation has enjoyed our entire lives was 
shattered September 11, 2001.
Of course we all know this, as we are con
stantly reminded of the Attack On America 
every time we turn on the TV or the radio, 
every time we see a star spangled banner, every 
time we pass any store, restaurant, or place of 
worship that promises, United We Stand. We 
are reminded of Americas New War every 
time we see Osama bin Ladens face, or the 
aftermath of America Strikes Back, or 
President Bushs addresses to the nation.
Recent terrors and burgeoning fears have 
given way to a new patriotism. As a result, I grow 
more acutely aware that we are nevertheless liv
ing in a material world, at least here in the 
United States. Although the theme that things 
will never be the same keeps being reiterated, 
we are also instructed to carry on as before. And 
that means keep the economy moving.
Every organization, radio or television state
ment, store or McDonalds, is pledging its alle
giance to America. I understand and recognize 
the need for open support from all that are 
willing to give it. But at the same time, might 
the establishments also be suggesting that 
because they are so patriotic, they are worthier 
of your business? Really, wouldnt you be terri
bly unpatriotic if you were not proudly pur
chasing and displaying the red, white and 
blue? After all, the President urges us to move 
on and allow life to continue as it was before, 
so dont stop spending money?!
The logic is clear as to why we must continue 
living, laughing, loving, and of course, shop
ping. If we keep living our lives as prosperous
ly as we were on September 10, then we are not 
letting Osama bin Laden win.
Fine, I get it, but explain it to my conscience.
How much am I really allowed to shop, or to 
cry, in honor of the American spirit before I seem 
irrational? How many drinks can I consume at 
happy hour before the irony makes me sick? 
How far should we have moved on, and how
much farther does the road to recovery reach out 
ahead of us? Many Americans, myself included, 
are in a constant state of guilt, bewilderment, 
and confusion. We are passionately torn 
between emotions of sadness and anger, while 
being consumed with fear and powerlessness. I 
am trying to take my inner turmoil and guilt and 
seek optimism somewhere in the wreckage.
The guilt I feel for continuing to rake 
through sale racks, go out to eat, prepare for 
midterms, and purchase beer is complicated. I 
feel disrespectful to busy myself with such tri
fles when the suffering and attacks that were 
happening somewhere else are finally occur
ring here. I feel silly worrying about my grades 
when Afghan civilians, as innocent as those 
who perished in the September 11 attacks, are 
living in fear of what bomb the Americans will 
drop on them next. I am embarrassed to buy 
new sneakers knowing how many American 
families have been financially devastated due 
to the attacks. Everything seems very unim
portant. But yet I am already nostalgic for 
uneventful headlines and trivial worries.
However, I hope that the inherent guilt that 
accompanies survival will motivate us to strive 
for a new level of consciousness. As we educate 
ourselves in attempt to comprehend the mad
ness that keeps postponing the Emmy Awards, 
I hope that we are all redefining ourselves as 
individuals and as Americans. Maybe it is a 
good thing that we are not cluttering our 
thoughts with everyday irritations and that we 
are taking time to think and to read and to 
learn about the world surrounding us.
I have never in my life so hungrily sought infor
mation about world events as I have the past 
month. I felt and continue to feel terribly lame 
that I didnt give much of a damn about current 
events until the attack on New York City, 15 miles 
from my hometown, or the crash in Somerset 
County, 80 miles from our campus. Talk about 
too close for comfort. But, regardless of circum
stance, at least I am seeking to understand the 
bigger picture. The greatest weapons I possess 
against terrorism and personal guilt are reading 
the news and using my credit card. And hoping.
Kathleen Fischer is a senior professional writ
ing major. She welcomes all responsible replies to 
her article.
Show some respect for your country
MINTUS, from page A7 
the town square, or turn them 
loose with a slap on the wrist. It 
really doesnt matter. Punishment 
is nothing more than revenge on 
the part of a society.
What we have here is a mes
sage. The United States is mak
ing an example of anyone who 
considers murdering thou
sands of innocent people an 
appropriate act. And I will 
back them to the brutal end. If 
10,000 soldiers marching in 
the name of everything that is 
against democracy and capital
ism breach Mount Washington 
and attempt to lay siege to the 
city of Pittsburgh, Ill croak as 
many of the bastards as 
humanly possible. And Ill be 
damn sure they suffer before 
their God receives them.
This isnt an attempt to pun
ish the Taliban or bin Laden. 
Theyre beyond that. This is a 
concerted effort to ensure 
that our children never have 
to wake up and see their
world in flames. Its an under
taking meant to make sure 
that the only American blood
shed the upcoming genera
tion sees is on television and 
in movies where it should be.
As I said a few weeks ago in 
this very forum, let the govern
ment do their job. Moreover, let 
them protect the lives of your 
children and wipe terrorism off 
the face of the earth as best 
they can without having to lis
ten to your petty bitching.
How dare you dishonor the 
memory of our fallen heroes 
and cast stones at the efforts of 
those brave men and women 
on the other side of the world 
who are putting their lives on 
the line at this very moment so 
that you can continue to spend 
your precious time worrying 
about which pair of khakis to 
buy and why some program 
wont compile.
And be glad of two things...
First, take comfort in knowing 
that this whole show isnt being
run by some callous bastard like 
me, who wants to put every last 
one of those awful fiends in the 
ground next to a slain pig, effec
tively preventing any of that 
divine comfort they all hope to 
attain as a result of spilling inno
cent blood under the command 
of a madman. Id make it far 
more messy and brutal than 
Dubya and his war council ever 
could, and dont think for a sec
ond that I wouldnt.
Second, thank your lucky 
stars that you live in a country 
that worries about little things 
like the sanctity of your children, 
your safety, and your freedom.
Sean Mintus is a junior profes
sional and creative writing 
major. Hed like to send a prayer 
out to the members of his family 
currently stationed throughout 
the world and to all others who 
selflessly serve a country filled 
with so many young, whiny, selfrighteous bastards who just dont 
know any better.

---------------------------------------------------

\dobe Photoshop*, Adobe Acrobat , 
iffects*. Everyone is welcome to our Inf 
ign up for an interview through the
Info Session
Monday, November 5 
7:30-8:30pm 
Doughtery HaU i21?
On Campus Interviews
Tuesday/Wednesday, November 6 & 7 
Career Center
Resume drop off through Qctober 17
I vJK i UJNtfe100 BEST_COMPANIES iTO WORK FOR
Adobe is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action' . *<x>'Adobe, the Adobe logo and ail Adobe products sre sf dobo Systems.
2000 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All nghts reserved."
wwwadobe.com/Jobs
PLUS
Pictures on your 
computer
A HOTEL ROOM
Elegantly furnished oneor two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, 
fluffy linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking.
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Streets 
145 fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMU/Pitt/Hospitals.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232
(412) 441 -4444
http://www.shadysideinn.com
$2.00 OFF 
YOUR CHOICESPECIAL OFFER
KonicaPhotos on 
the internet
fMtf IREISHdW-------------Photos on 
Floppy Disk
Photos on 
CDANY SIZE ROLL
From color 35mm C-41 at time of developing
From color 35mm C-41 or APS at time of developing
A SUITE FOR LESS THAN

---------------------------------------------------

AioTHE TARTAN  OCTOBER 15, 2001
Fridq^Night
STARTS
OCT.19
Mariners beat Indians 6-2 to force decisive fifth game in ALDS
CLEVELAND (AP)  Whew. 
Take a deep breath, Seattle.
Just when it looked like the 
Mariners would tie the 1906 
Chicago Cubs again, rookie Ichiro 
Suzuki got another big hit and 
baseballs best team this season got 
the biggest of its 118 wins.
Suzukis RBI single highlighted a 
three-run rally in the seventh 
inning as the Mariners forced a 
decisive Game 5 with a 6-2 win 
over the Cleveland Indians in the 
AL playoffs.
The Mariners, who won 116 
games during the regular season, 
were perilously close to doing the 
same thing the 06 Cubs  the 
team whose wins record they 
matched  did 95 years ago. The 
Cubs didnt win the World Series 
that year.
But showing the resilience that 
made them almost unstoppable 
since April, the Mariners came back 
in the seventh off Bartolo Colon 
(1-1), who shut them out for eight 
innings in Game 1 and blanked 
them for the first six on Sunday 
after a 2-hour, 20-minute rain 
delay.
Suzuki went 3-for-5 and Edgar 
Martinez hit a two-run homer in 
the ninth for the Mariners, who 
were blown out 17-2 and played 
possibly their worst game all sea
son in Game 3 on Saturday.
Freddy Garcia (1-1) pitched 6- 
1/3 innings for the win.
Jamie Moyer, who beat the 
Indians in Game 2 and went 2-0 
against them in the regular season, 
will start Game 5 for the Mariners 
on Monday at Safeco Field against 
Chuck Finley.
Before Game 4, a relaxed 
Mariners manager Lou Piniella was 
confident his team would go home 
to play another day.
We have to take that long ride 
back to Seattle, Piniella said. So 
we may as well make Cleveland 
take the same plane ride.
For six innings it looked like the 
Mariners would fly solo, but the 
Indians are headed to the airport, 
too.
Juan Gonzalezs second-inning 
homer looked like it might stand up 
as Colon handled the Mariners 
with ease for six innings.
But he walked John Olerud to 
open the seventh, and Stan Javier
threw his bat at an outside pitch 
and singled to left.
The Indians tried to pick Olerud 
off second, but Colons wild throw 
allowed the Mariners to finally get 
a runner to third. Mike Cameron 
walked to load the bases, and 
pinch-hitter A1 Martin grounded 
into a force at the plate.
David Bell followed with a fly 
ball down the left-field line that 
Marty Cordova ran down in foul 
territory, but it was deep enough to 
score Javier without a play to tie it 
at 1.
Indians manager Charlie Manuel 
had left-hander Ricardo Rincon 
ready to face Suzuki, who led the 
majors in hits and batted .445 with 
runners in scoring position. But he 
stuck with Colon and Suzuki sin
gled  his 250th hit in the regular 
and postseason  through the hole 
in right to score Cameron and give 
Seattle a 2-1 lead.
Mark McLemore followed with 
another RBI single, chasing Colon, 
who had set a division series record 
with 14 consecutive scoreless 
innings.
The Indians got a run back in the 
bottom of the inning off Garcia. 
Gonzalez opened with a wind
blown double over Camerons head 
in center and went to third on a 
groundout.
Jeff Nelson came on and struck 
out Ellis Burks on a pitch that got 
past catcher Tom Lampkin, who 
hustled to get the ball as Gonzalez 
held third and Burks took first.
Piniella, who didnt get thrown 
out of a game all year for arguing, 
came close as he disputed the play 
with plate umpire Rick Reed.
Travis Frymans grounder off 
Nelsons glove scored Gonzalez, 
but forced Burks at second. When 
Manuel sent up lefty slugger 
Russell Branyan to hit for Cordova, 
Piniella countered with hardthrowing lefty Arthur Rhodes.
Manuel sent up right-hander Wil 
Cordero, who just missed hitting a 
go-ahead homer by flying to the 
warning track in left.
Seattle got a huge insurance run 
in the eighth off rookie Danys Baez. 
Olerud singled with one out, but 
was forced at second on Javiers 
grounder. Javier was running when 
Cameron hit a double to deep cen
ter, giving Seattle a 4-2 lead.
With Suzuki on again in the 
ninth, Martinez hit a 458-foot 
homer off Paul Shuey. The ball 
landed on a pedestrian walkway 
outside the ballpark.
Gonzalez entered the postseason 
looking clueless at the plate, end
ing the regular season in an 0-for15 slump. But he may have found 
his stroke, homering in Game 3 and 
again leading off the second to give 
Cleveland a 1-0 lead.
Gonzalez lined an 0-1 pitch from 
Garcia onto the home-run porch in 
left for just his second homer since 
September 9.Yankees force 
fifth game in 
division series
OAKLAND, Calif. (AP)  This 
dynasty just wont be beaten. It 
wont even be worried.
Playing with poise and pride in 
the face of postseason elimination, 
Bernie Williams and the New York 
Yankees escaped Oakland with 
their second victory in two days - 
and forced a decisive Game 5 back 
in their ballpark.
Williams drove in five runs as the 
Yankees offense finally emerged 
from its slumber, tying the AL divi
sion series at two games each with 
a 9-2 victory over the Athletics on 
Sunday.
Were playing with a fearless 
mentality, Williams said.
With two gutsy wins at the 
Coliseum - where Oakland had won 
17 straight - the three-time World 
Series champs returned to Yankee 
Stadium for a deciding game 
Monday night. Roger Clemens will 
face Mark Mulder in a rematch of 
the opener.
Surprised? I guess I cant be, 
Yankees manager Joe Torre said. 
Weve done a lot of things in the 
last six years that make me proud, 
and this certainly goes up there 
among the proudest (moments).
The day was disastrous for the 
young As, who lost their fourth 
straight home playoff game to the 
Yankees and were forced into 
another cross-country trip. Whats 
more, cleanup hitter Jermaine Dye 
broke his leg on a foul ball in the 
third inning and was lost for the
rest of the postseason.
Dye will be in a cast for 8 to 12 
weeks, Athletics trainer Larry Davis 
said.
Last year, the Athletics beat 
Clemens on the road in Game 4, 
sending their first-round series 
back to Oakland. The Yankees built 
a big lead and hung on for a 7-5 
victory.
After hanging on for a 1-0 win on 
Saturday night, New York had no 
problem evening the series on a 
balmy California afternoon. The 
Yankees were baffled by the As 
starters in the series first three 
games, but they chased Cory Lidle 
in the fourth inning.
Were not shaken at all. I expect
ed this to go five games, As man
ager Art Howe said. We were pret
ty fortunate to come in here two 
up. I wish I wasnt a soothsayer, but
I thought it would go five. 
Hopefully, we can turn the tables 
on them tomorrow.
Williams had a two-run double in 
the third inning and a two-run sin
gle in the fourth, connecting for the 
big hits that neither team had 
seemed capable of getting early in 
the series.
He added an RBI double in the 
ninth and scored. Afterward, he 
admitted the Yankees were the pic
ture of calm before the biggest 
game of their season.
We were just getting on each 
other, saying, Lets go, things like 
that, but just joking, Williams said. 
We were all aware of the situation. 
There was no sense in rubbing it in. 
We knew we were down two games 
to one, and it was a must-win situa
tion ... but you dont want to be pins 
and needles out there.
While the Yankees scored early 
and often against Lidle, Orlando 
Hernandez - who didnt win a game 
until September in a regular season 
filled with injuries and inconsisten
cy - survived for 5-2/3 innings on 
veteran guile.
El Duque faced his biggest test in 
the first inning after the As put 
runners on first and third with no 
outs. He retired Jason Giambi and 
Dye on popups and, after a walk 
loaded the bases, got Jeremy 
Giambi on a foul pop.
Those three outs made Oakland 
0-for-26 with runners in scoring 
position in the series.
Hernandez gave up eight hits, 
but limited Oakland to two runs 
while constantly pitching out of 
trouble.
It seemed like we were ahead in 
the series, Hernandez said. 
Everyone was focused on winning, 
not necessarily on what would hap
pen if we lost.
After getting outstanding starts 
from their rotation in the series 
first three games, the As got little 
from Lidle, a former Tampa Bay 
castoff who closed the season with 
five straight victories to earn a spot 
in the As playoff rotation.
Never appearing comfortable in 
his first postseason appearance, 
Lidle yielded five hits and six runs 
in 3-1/3 innings as the Yankees 
scored as many runs (4) in the first 
three innings Sunday as they did in 
the series first three games.
The games painfully slow pace 
was no help to Lidle, who normally 
works quickly. The first inning took 
an hour, and the first five innings 
lasted nearly three hours. The 
game lasted four hours, 13 minutes
 the longest division series game 
on record, and one minute short of 
the longest nine-inning postseason 
game.
There was bad news even beyond 
the loss for Oakland. Dye, who 
energized the Athletics offense 
when he arrived in a trade with 
Kansas City three months ago, left 
the game when he broke his left leg 
with a foul ball in the third inning.
The Yankees scored two 
unearned runs without a hit in the 
second. After Lidle walked two bat
ters, journeyman second baseman 
F.P. Santangelo  a curious lastminute substitution for Frank 
Menechino in Howes starting line
up  allowed Paul ONeills routine 
grounder to go right past him, scor
ing a run.
New York added two more in the 
third when Williams drove a dou
ble well over the head of Johnny 
Damon in center field.
The Yankees chased Lidle in the 
fourth when Alfonso Soriano sin
gled home ONeill. Two batters 
later, Williams lined a two-run sin
gle to boost New Yorks lead to 7-2.
Terrence Longs RBI single in the 
third was Oaklands first hit in 28 
at-bats with runners in scoring 
position during the series. Miguel
Tejada had four hits for Oakland, 
but he was stranded on base three>times.Oilers, Wild 
reach 3-3 tie '
ST. PAUL, Minn. (AP)  Janne 
Niinimaa came out of the penalty 
box and set up Rem Murray for the 
tying goal in the third period 
Sunday as the Edmcnton Oilers 
and Minnesota Wild played to a
3-3 tie.
Niinimaa left the box and took -& 
pass from Todd Marchant and 
broke down the right side on a twoon-one. He fed Murray in the left 
circle, and Murrays shot bounced 
into the net off the stick of 
Minnesota goalie Manny 
Fernandez at 3:26 of the third peri
od.
Minnesota controlled most of the 
third period, outshooting 
Edmonton 13-4, but Oilers goa^je 
Tommy Salo preserved the tie. The 
Oilers outshot the Wild 3-1 in over
time.
Edmonton is now unbeaten in 
five games (4-0-1) since losing its 
season opener. The second-year 
Wild have not lost this season 
(3-0-2).
Minnesota defenseman Brad 
Bombardir left the game with 7j.p 
to play in regulation after breaking 
his right ankle.
The Wild started quickly, scorjjjg 
on two of their first three shpts 
against Salo. Lubomir Sekeras 
scored three seconds into the 
Wilds first power play at 1:20, and 
Stacy Roest added his fifth goal of 
the season at 4:08.
Roest, who scored seven goals in 
76 games with Minnesota last sea
son, converted a giveaway by Oilers 
defenseman Jason Smith in front of 
his own net to make it 2-0.
After that, the Oilers took control 
of the game, outshooting 
Minnesota 13-6 in the period and 
closing to within 2-1 on Daniel 
Clearys second goal of the season 
at 7:41. -it
Shawn Horcoff converted zra 
rebound to tie the game at 2 at 1:59 
of the second. But Marian Gaborik 
pushed in his own rebound from tjie 
right post on a two-man advantage 
to regain the lead for the Wild at 3-2 
at 13:09 of the second period. ~ <3
 The largest science and sports exhibition on the planet!
 Climbing walls  Bungee trampoline  High-wire bike  Simulators VR
Sports Briefs
Volleyball 
wins over 
Grove City
The womens volleyball team 
travelled to Grove City College 
last Friday, and came away with 
another victory. Faced with an 
inspired performance by the 
Grove City Wolverines, the 
Tartans had to pull out all the 
stops, and that they did, winning 
easily in three straight games 
(30-26, 30-22, 31-29).
The win came on the heels of a 
straight-set upset of top-ranked 
Washington University on 
October 6. The win clinched a 
number 2 seed for the Tartans at 
the UAA Championships, which 
will be held on October 27 and 
28 at the University of Chicago.
The teams next action comes 
on October 19 and 20, when they 
head out to take part in the 
Juniata College Tournament.
Runners do 
well at home 
on Friday
A summary of all Tartan par
ticipants is given below:
The CMU cross country teams 
hosted the Duquesne Invitational 
this Friday at Schenley Park, and 
led by some strong individual 
efforts, came away with some 
solid results.
The mens team finished 
fourth overall in the 5 mile run, 
and the top finisher in the CMU 
crew was senior Matt 
Dennerline, who recorded a time 
of 26:56, good enough to take 
12th place.
The men were strong all 
around, as 10 of the top 50 run
ners wore Tartan colors.
On the womens side, the team 
finished fifth overall in the 5k 
run. Once again, the Tartan pack 
was led by junior runner Katie 
Aerni, who came in 8th overall.
Also putting in a strong show
ing was first-year student Nicole 
Gartner, who came back from an 
ankle injury.
Women
8.Katie Aerni19:14
23.Nicole Gartner20:23
32.Allison Spare20:56
42.Amy Graveline21:20
54.Kelly Chin22:02
57.Jamie Davidson22:21
64.Janet Park22:30
70.Michelle OMalley 23:01
72.Erin Boyd23:20
73.Kelly Collins23:21
95.Sherry Mayer28:16
Men
12.Matt Dennerline26:56
24.Pat Fisher27:25
30.Alex Thompson27:44
34.Alex Weiss27:58
35.Adam Wierman27:59
36.Mike Rossi28:04
38.Ethan Coffey28:05
40.Darren Shultz28:09
46.John Hursh28:23
50.Christian Reed28:31
58.Mike Duke28:47
61.Jared Markowitz28:57
69.Neil Ardeshna29:24
70.Chris Carroll29:30
76.James Araujo29:58
78.Tim Driscoll30:01
91.Dennis Pegher31:06
97.Pat McKenzie31:36
104.Calvin Tong32:13Mens soccer 
wins against 
PSU-Behrend
The mens soccer team headed 
out to the Behrend campus of 
Penn State last Wednesday, and 
came away with a close 2-1 vic
tory.
The victory upped the Tartans 
record to 8-1-0 (3-1-0 UAA). 
While the squads record is better 
than that of UAA rival 
Washington University, their 
lone UAA loss leaves them in sec
ond place for now.
This week, the team gets to 
warm up again Pitt-Greensburg 
on Wednesday before heading 
out to face rival Emory on Friday 
evening.
Compiled by 
Balaji Sarpeshkar
Soccer 
team wins 
in overtime
SOCCER, from page A12 
which decided it would win the 
game for her. McConnochie came 
through in the final minutes.
We pounded them during thfe 
second overtime until Merfy 
scored, which was such a relief; 
said Snell. Play continued into the 
second half, and the countdown 
towards a tie was starting when 
McConnochie came through with 
her goal.
The competition with the 
Generals surpassed by far the 
level of play the Tartans and Lake 
Erie College achieved last 
Thursday, when the Tartans host
ed Lake Erie at home.
The Tartans routed Lake Erie 
College in a lopsided 7-0 contesjt, 
in which starters were in the 
game for about half of the game. 
By halftime the score was already 
5-0, despite only a decent overall 
performance by the Tartans.
And even though they won by 
seven goals, the Tartans 
remained spirited and showed 
sportsmanship, cheering excited
ly even on their seventh goal.
Unfortunately, the easy game 
may not have had the best effCt 
on the team overall  the lack of 
competition may have thrown 
the Tartans intensity off-bal
ance, contributing to slight diffi
culties in the Washington and 
Lee game.
They were better in the over
times but it was a painful game and 
Washington and Lee is a hardwork
ing team, said McConnochie1. "I 
think we may have been a little flat 
after playing such a slow paced 
game against Lake Erie.
Saturdays Washington and Lee 
game was a good prelude to this 
coming weekends matchups, both 
away contest at UAA teams Emory 
(12-1-0, 3-1-0 in the UA, 
ranked 12th in Division III) and 
New York University (7-5-0, 
3-1-0 in the UAA).
The Tartans will be in Atianta n 
Friday evening, and New York on 
Sunday afternoon. Their confer
ence record stands at 1-2-1, and 
the players and coaches hope to 
upset some top teams.
Omnimax Takes You There
Kid Rock  Moby  Santana  Dave Matthews Band  Macy Gray 
Sheryl Crow  Mary J. Blige  B.B. King and more (sponsored by certs)
SHOWTIMES: 9 and 10:30 pm
One of the four 
Carnegie Museums 
of Pittsburgh
10,000 watts of light and sound will blow you away.
 10 pm: "Beatles Laser Anthology"
 11 pm: "Led Zeppelin Lased and Confused"
 12midnight: "Pink Floyd, The Wall 2001"
$8 with CMU Student ID
Includes Free CMU Student Admission to UPMC SportsWorlts + Omnimax and Laser Show 
based on available theater and exhibition capacity.
CarnegieScienceCenfrer.org
rthohldolrss
Friday Night Bus leaves from the UC
turnaround every hour starting at 6:30 pm.
Return trips every hour until lam.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 15, 2001All
Tartans drop their first match to Wash. U
BEARS, from page A12 
exceptionally fine job within that 
role, said Lackner.
However, the tide turned against 
the Tartans on the next possession. 
Under pressure, senior Eric Zimpfer 
passed to Jeff Stolper three yards in 
the backfield. The ball clanked off 
of Stolpers hands and into the out
stretched arms of Wash U DB Nate 
Phillips. The Bears took advantage 
of the short field for the second 
time in the game. A 28-yard drive 
was capped by running back Bobby 
Collins 12 yard carry that made 
,the score 14-7.
The Tartan D manhandled 
Collins for the majority of the after
noon. He entered the contest aver
aging over 100 yards a game. 
However, the Tartan 3-4 owned the 
line of scrimmage and apprehend
ed Collins with ferocity. The sopho
more rusher managed a paltry 2.4 
yards a carry and 53 total yards on 
the afternoon.
Turnovers continued to plague 
the Tartans in the second half. On 
the next set of downs the Tartans 
started at their 17 yard line. The 
Wash U defense could not bring 
down 230 pounds of fullback with 
the appellation of Urbanczyk. 
However, sophomore ball carrier 
Ricardo Clarke fumbled in Wash U 
territory with 11 minutes to play. 
""The Tartan defense continued its 
stellar 2001 season. Although 
allowing Wash U to march 60 yards 
to the goal line and eat 3:44 min
utes off of the clock, the defense 
stood tall and forced the Bears to 
settle for a Feig field goal.
That was a great goal line 
stand, commented Lackner.
Jeff Cullers/Photo Stafff
CMU spent most of Saturdays game trying to keep up with Wash U.
The Tartans attempted twice 
more to overcome the 10 point 
deficit. With Zimpfer nursing a 
shoulder injury on the sideline, 
Smelko took over at QB. His efforts 
failed, however, as he was inter
cepted with 2:50 remaining by 
defensive back Quincy Davis. After 
Wash U moved in reverse from 
their 33 to 16 yard line. Senior 
QB/punter Brian Tatom punted the 
ball 43 yards, but 15 came on the 
ground. Tartan return man Joe 
Ciccarelli had difficultly fielding 
the bouncing ball. His fumble was 
recovered by the Bears, who took 
the opportunity to run out the 
clock.
During the first half, the Tartan 
offense revved its engine in neu
tral, unable to develop any consis
tent Wing-T rushing attack against 
a Bear defense that had allowed 
only one 100 rusher over the past
23 games. The Tartans average 
first half drive began at their 19 
yard line and forced first-year stu
dent Laird Stabler to punt in face of 
an onslaught of a Wash U special 
teams unit that has blocked Tartan 
punts in the past two meetings.
Midway through the first quar
ter, Tatom pinned the Tartans at 
their one yard line with a 31 yard 
punt. Unable to muster a first 
down, CMU was forced to give the 
football back to Bears. Following an
11 yard return by junior wide out 
Reggie Crume, Wash U marched 42 
yards on seven plays to pay dirt. 
Junior wide receiver Eric Catto 
caught a fade pass in the back cor
ner on the end zone from Tatom 
who was 8 of 11 for 71 yards in the 
first quarter. The senior QB com
pleted the afternoon 16 of 26 pass 
attempts for 160 yards.
The pendulum appeared to 
swing in the Skibos favor on the 
next possession. Senior QB Eric 
Zimpfer hurled a 57 yard strike to 
sophomore half back Ricardo 
Clarke on a post pattern that placed 
the Tartans at the Wash U 26 yard 
line. On 3rd and nine, Zimpfer 
threw a quick out to junior Slash 
Sebastian Smelko. After a nifty 
move around the Wash U cornerback, Smelko garnered a first 
down. However, Mike Palmers 33 
yard field goal attempt sailed 
slightly to the left.
The momentum shift appeared 
complete when the Tartans 
employed some slight debauchery 
to fool the Wash U secondary. At 
their 20 yard line, Zimpfer zinged a 
lateral to Smelko, who was lined up 
in the flanker position.
Junior RB Andrew Garrod sprint
ed downfield behind standout 
Wash U defensive back Kyle 
Runnalls. Smelkos pass to Garrod 
went for 42 yards to the Bears 38 
yard line.
I think anytime you go against 
opponents like Wash U, you need to 
have some of that in there. They 
had a successful split end reverse 
pass. I dont think theres a team in 
America that doesnt have a trick 
play or two up their sleeve, said 
Lackner.
Once again, the Tartan drive 
stalled and Palmer was unable to 
convert a 40 yard field goal.
Montanas Super Bowls his only claims to fame
RJ, from page A12
Montana and Jerry Rice are clearly
the best ever, without a doubt! Are
they?
I: Lets start with Joe Montana, 
.using the ridiculously irritating 
dialogue which never took place 
and hopefully never will:
John Fan (probably born around 
1980): Joe Montana is the best 
quarterback in NFL history!
. Devils Advocate: Why?
JF: Because he won 4 Super 
Bowls!
DA: So? Terry Bradshaw did, too. 
And he did it calling his own plays.
JF: Yeah, but they were a 
defense-oriented team. Plus 
Montana was the Super Bowl MVP 
a record three times!
DA: To be fair, Bradshaw did win 
two Super Bowl MVP awards, and 
the Steelers passing attack in their 
later championships was actually 
very effective with Bradshaw at the 
controls. Furthermore, people 
underestimate the power of the 
49er defense during their champi
onship runs, as they gave up only 
16 points per game during their 
championship seasons, compared 
to 13.5 by the Steel Curtain.
JF: But the 49er offense was 
much more effective, moron!
DA: Try 24.2 points per game for 
the Steelers vs. 25.7 points per 
game for the 49ers. But lets move 
on to Dan Marino.
JF: Are you kidding? The man 
didnt even win a championship!
DA: But he owns virtually every 
passing record in the book, includ
ing total yards and total touchdown 
passes. Additionally, he is the second-winningest quarterback in his
tory in the regular season.
JF: So? Winning is everything.
DA: Then why not Otto Graham?
JF: Who the heck is that?
DA: Oh boy. He played for the 
Cleveland Browns from 1946 
through 1955. The first four sea
sons, the Browns were in the AllAmerican Football Conference 
(NOT the NFL) and they won the 
championship all four years.
In 1950, they joined the NFL and 
promptly embarrassed the league 
by winning the championship in 
1950,1954, and 1955 and finishing 
as the runner-up in 1951,1952, and 
1953. Graham was among the 
league leaders in passing each sea
son, and he retired after his tenth 
season, following his seventh 
championship.
JF: So? He never won a Super 
Bowl, so he doesnt count.
DA: Errrrrrr.,.how about John 
Elway, then? Hes been to more 
Super Bowls than Montana has  
in fact, hes started more Super 
Bowls than any other quarterback
 and hes won more games over
all.
JF: Yeah, but Montana beat 
Elway head-to-head in Super Bowl 
XXIV, and hes 4-0 in the big games 
to Elways 2-3. What a choker.
DA: Well, Elway was 5-1 as a 
starter in AFC Championship 
games to Montanas 4-2, and he 
had fewer weapons on his team. 
But I guess the ridiculous argument 
is that its better to lose early than 
to get to the final round and lose 
there.JF: Montana also had a much 
higher passer rating than Elway.
DA: Okay, but Steve Young and 
Kurt Warner both have higher 
career ratings than Montana.
JF: Yeah, but Young couldnt beat 
Dallas, so hes no good. And Kurt 
Warners just a bag boy in the per
fect system for him, with all those
weapons.
DA: Couldnt you say the exact 
same thing about Joe Montana?
JF: No. Geez, what you got 
against Joe Cool anyway?
DA: What about Johnny Unitas, 
whom the NFL selected as its quar
terback to the all-time team?
JF: Nah.
DA: Bart Starr? Roger Staubach? 
Troy Aikman, even?
JF: Nope. You answer my ques
tion this time! Why you hatin on 
Montana?
DA: Eh, screw this.
JF: Fine. #16 for life!
Basically, the only evidence we 
have for Montana being the best 
quarterback ever rests in his Super 
Bowl titles, and even those are a bit 
suspect. But I can tolerate 
Montana, who was a great field 
general who turned a historically 
woeful franchise into a dynasty.
I can also tolerate the running 
back rankings, which are as justifi
ably correct as any order you could 
give. But to say Jerry Rice is with
out peer at his position is, frankly, 
ignorant. Don Hutson dominated 
the league like no receiver had 
before, and his mere presence revo
lutionized the game.
Players like Sterling Sharpe have 
put up better numbers even during 
Rices tenure in San Francisco, but 
Sharpes career was cut short by a
severe injury.Rices records remain as his claim
to greatness  never mind the fact 
that the previous holders of those 
records like Steve Largent and Art 
Monk are no longer mentioned in 
the greatest-ever debate  and 
records are made to be broken. 
Maybe thats why hes sticking 
around as long as possible  to
preserve his legacy.
One final point: how can some
one claim Jerry Rice is the greatest 
receiver ever to play and then not 
say the same for Emmitt Smith? 
The reasons that Rice is the great
est ever carry over directly to 
Smith.
Rice: Three championship rings?
Smith: Got em.
Rice: Super Bowl MVP?
Smith: Check.
Rice: Lead position in all-time 
total touchdowns?
Smith: By a whole lot.
Rice: Lead position in all-time 
total yards?
Smith: Will by the end of 2002.
Rice: Self-proclaimed
Superman?
Smith: Nope, you got me there, 
Jerry.
Im not arguing that Jim Brown 
or Walter Payton are not the great
est ever, but its definitely some
thing to think about. After all, if 
Emmitt Smith is the Jerry Rice of 
running backs, you would think 
more people would see him as the 
best to ever play.
Emmitt Smith was the first play
er in history to lead his team to a 
Super Bowl title as the NFL rushing 
leader that year  a feat that has 
been accomplished only once since 
(Terrell Davis, 1998). He didnt 
have the personality of Walter 
Payton, the power of Jim Brown, or 
the brilliance of Barry Sanders, but 
he was one of the best, most effec
tive running backs this league has 
ever seen.
Despite his comments about 
Emmitt Smith, RJ Sikdar wont be 
watching the Dallas-Washington 
game on Monday night.
Opening weeks of hockey season full of surprises
SURPRISES, from page A12 
Parrish whos never finished a sea
son with more than 26 goals.
In fact, two of the top ten scorers 
in the league right now are 
Islanders  Parrish and Shawn 
Bates. In any event, the biggest 
change in the Isles so far appears to 
be more than just scoring. For once,
. this team looks like they have some 
confidence  and with the acquisi
tion of Peca, a noted leader, this 
confidence isnt entirely off the 
mark.
Fortunately for those of us trying 
to cling to reality, the Isles finally 
lost on Saturday night to the Wings, 
which leaves their record at a lofty
4-0-0-1. The loss makes sense, 
though, because if any team made 
more roster moves than New York, 
it was the Red Wings, who brought 
in snipers Brett Hull and Luc 
Robitaille to complement their 
already awe-inspiring lineup led by 
Yzerman, Shanahan, and Federov. 
These Wings were never a team to 
be taken lightly, and now that they
have Hasek in net, they can afford 
to open up the throttle even more 
than before.
Another surprising team so far 
this season has been the Montreal 
Canadiens, who have been less than 
impressive for several seasons. In 
fact, about all theyve been noted 
for over the past two or three years 
is leading the league in man-games 
lost to injury. With their perenially 
battered lineup, the Habs have sel
dom been able to do much more 
than hobble out of the regular sea
son.
So far this year, though, the 
Canadiens are undefeated, and 
with a 4-0-0-1 record, are tied 
with the Islanders for first place in 
the NHL. While two of the wins 
came against teams such as the 
Columbus Blue Jackets and the 
pathetic Anaheim Mighty Ducks, 
the other two came against Ottawa 
and New Jersey.
Even in the face of captain Saku 
Koivu being stricken with cancer, 
the Habs have pulled it together 
and performed well enough to stay
ahead of the pack. Of course, like 
the Islanders are feeding off their 
new leadership, the Habs are likely 
using Koivus illness as inspiration. 
Whatever their newfound motiva
tion is, though, its helping them get 
the job done.
On the other side of the tracks are 
those teams who have been per
forming at a special level of medioc
rity thus far. This would include the 
two teams tied for the worst record 
in the league, the usually dominant 
Devils and the Penguins. As of 
Saturday, both teams were tied with 
0-3-0-0 records, and were left 
wondering what went wrong.
The Penguins, in particular, have 
been less than impressive, with a
3-1 loss to the Avs, a 4-2 loss to the 
lowly Mighty Ducks, and a 6-3 
blowout at the hands of the newlook Islanders. While Lemieuxs 
absence from the last two games 
might be construed as an excuse, 
this is not a team that should rely 
solely on Mario to produce points. 
When a team can put together a sec
ond line like the Pens unit of
Straka, Lang, and Kovalev (who 
accounted for all of the goals 
against the Isles), offense should 
not be an issue.
However, the team has been 
unable to get any kind of consistent 
system going, and somehow have 
been dismal on the power play. 
With the kind of talent the Penguins 
have, they should not be 0 for 15 
with the extra man.
In addition, the team has taken a 
total of 40 penalty minutes, most of 
which came from ill-conceived 
plays in the offensive. Nothing 
makes less sense than taking penal
ties in the opponents zone, espe
cially when youre playing from 
behind, as the Pens have been 
forced to do in each game so far. If 
the team cant find a way to main
tain discipline, theyll find them
selves trapped in the cellar of the 
Eastern Conference.
Balaji Sarpeshkar is not at all sur
prised that the Hurricanes most 
recent loss was almost totally due to 
the play of Tom Barrasso.
Thistledown
Whos Next
Carnegie Mellon (4-2, 1-1 UAA) at University of Chicago (4-1, 1-1 
UAA) 12:30 pm on WRCT, 88.3 FM.
Last meeting: Last season, the stifling Maroon defense held the Tartans 
to two field goals en route to a 20-6 victory. CMU leads the all-time 
series 11-2.
The skinny: The Maroons suffered their first defeat of the season on 
Saturday at Rochester, 25-20. Last season, Chicago sported the best 
rushing defense in the nation and captured their second UAA crown in 
three seasons.
However, their 2001 pass defense has been shoddy, allowing opponents 
nearly 200 yards a game.
Look for: Senior defensive tackle Arlen Wiley led the Maroons with 
eight sacks last season, but has only one through five games in 2001. QB 
Josh Dunn is averaging 287 yards a game passing and has 12 TDs.
Result: Last week, Thistledown predicted a solid Tartan victory over the 
visiting Bears. Considering the strength of Chicagos victories in 2001, 
we would be remiss if we didnt call the Tartans number again. The 
offense must take advantage of the Chicago secondary. Weve been say
ing for weeks that passing to the tight end may be the key. CMU 17, 
Chicago 14.
Game Notes
Playoff picture: The disappointment may not end with the Tartans 
(4-1,1-1) fall from the ranks of the unbeaten. The Bears (5-2, 2-01 
now have the inside track toward their fifth UAA title. The Tartans, who 
will almost certainly drop from the American Football Coaches; 
Association Top 25 poll, could only reach the Division III playoffs under 
a complex and auspicious set of outcomes since the UAA does not have 
an automatic bid. In 1999, the 8-3 Tartans emerged victorious in the 
NIT of D-III football, the EC AC Southwest championship game.
Adams Family: Frank Adam is the fourth leading tackier on the Tartan 
defense, but has been a catalyst. Consider that last year he was unhap
py with his role at CMU and left the team, only to return for 2001.
He came back and I think hes had a fine season. Hes really played 
exceptionally well. Im very pleased with his play, said head coach Rich, 
Lackner.
The Tartan defense has held opponents rushing attacks to 2.6 yards a, 
carry and 89 yards a game. Nose guard Brian Lenhart is the teams 
leading tackier with 28. Adam, Mike Hubbert, and Greg Botta are tied 
for the team lead in sacks (two).
Bug bite: Chris Kay started in place of Drew Garrod on Saturday 
because Garrod suffered an infection on his arm. Coincidentally, Kay 
left the game because of a dislocated elbow early in the first quarter. He 
is out for the season. Mike Danielson and Brian Smalley will take over, 
the long and short-snapping duties.
Bitter rivals: Pushing, shoving, and verbal assault are quite common, 
when the Tartans do battle with the Bears, considering that few players 
were around the last time CMU beat Wash U.
All the UAA games are rival games because there are so few of them. 
When you play 4 games within your conference, I think they all become 
rivals. Sure Wash U has been a great rival the last couple of years and 
they certainly have a fine football program, said Lackner.
Unspecial teams: The Tartans have encountered their fair share of spe
cial team woes this season. Laird Stabler struggled early this season 
and now the usually surefooted placekicker Mike Palmer missed two 
field goals on Saturday.
Additionally, the punt return squad had its own trouble. Joe Ciccarelli 
had trouble handling a punt with two minutes to play in the game. The 
muff allowed Wash U to recover the football and run out the clock.
If you are unable to have a handle on it and its near the sideline, we 
have to do a better job of teaching them to bat it out of bounds, said 
Lackner.
Shoulder shudder: Eric Zimpfer reaggrevated a shoulder that he injured 
in high school. Last season against Wash U, Zimpfer had to leave in the 
first half because of dislocation. In 2001, he lasted until the fourth quar
ter. If he is unable to play against Chicago, Sebastian Smelko will start 
and Mike Wykosky will backup.
I think Sebastian is the better quarterback. It would be a situation 
where we would see what he could do. Hes a very good athlete who can 
make things happen, said Lackner.
Hapless Homecoming: The event brought out the old along with the 
new. A strong student contingent in addition to the many alumni on j 
hand turned the crowd quite raucous during the Tartans goal line stand 
as well as several third down opportunities for the Bears. Joining in the 
school spirit was CMU TV, which broadcasted its first football game of 
the season. The outfit simulcasted the play by play announcer and color 
commentator of WRCT.
Compiled by Brad Grantz
classified
Opportunities
Sq Hill/Greenfield (Housemates):
Mature and clean grad students or 
professionals to share Victorian townhoused) with current residents. Has 
porch and yard. Close to bus. $370 
each + shared utils. (412) 841-3242
Fraternities! Sororities! Clubs! 
Student Groups! Earn $1,000-$2,000 
this semester with the easy 
Campusfundraiser.com three hour 
fundraising event. Does not involve 
credit card applications. Fundraising 
dates are filling quickly, so call today! 
Contact Campusfundraiser.com at 
(888) 923-3238 or visit www.campusfundraiser.com
SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge in 
FREE Travel, Drinks, Food, and Parties 
with the Best DJ's and celebrities in 
Cancn, Jamaica, Mazatlan, and the 
Bahamas. Go to StudentClty.com, call 
1-800-293-1443 or e-mail sales@studentclty.com to find out more.
Wanted! Spring Breakers! Sun Coast 
vacations wants to send you on Spring 
Break to Cancn, the Bahamas, 
Jamaica, or Mazatlan. FOR FREE! To
find out how, call 1 -888-777-4642 or ' 
e-mail sales@suncoastvacations.com
C;'
Like older men? Older male grad stu, 
dent seeking younger female student | 
who enjoys the special companionship 
of an older man, Seeking friendship, \ 
fun, and maybe more. E-mail me 
ttss8970@aol.com, for information 
about me and a picture, hope to hear [ 
from you.
Classified Rates
1-20 words........$10.00/wk
21-50 words........$12.00/wk
51-100 words......$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 1 7 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
 Classifieds must be paid In cash 
or check before first run date
 On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
 Due by 5 pm the Thursday 
before publication
THE TARTAN
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

15 October 2001THE TARTANPage Al2
Start of NHL 
season holds 
surprises
Icy Chips
by Balaji Sarpeshkar
; Its simply amazing what can hap
pen in two weeks of hockey. After a 
summer that saw more personnel 
movement than any in recent mem
ory, we finally got a chance to see 
the results  and boy, have we ever 
had something to see. Between the 
Islanders ridiculous ascent to first 
place in the Atlantic Division and 
the Devils complete self-destruc
tion, the first few weeks of the seas6n have been far more exciting 
tljian October hockey usually man
ages to be.
Granted, its hard to judge teams 
based on their performances in the 
first couple weeks of the season. For 
t^ams that have made roster 
changes, some of the new players 
may not have had time to adjust yet, 
and some of the overachieving 
tams may start to cool off soon.
, Speaking of overachieving teams, 
What team has been playing in 
Nassau Coliseum lately, and what 
did they do to the Islanders? This is 
clearly not the team that finished 
21-51-7-3 last season, light years 
away from a playoff spot and even 
further from respectability. This is 
certainly not the same team thats 
been the laughing stock of the 
league since their 1993 playoff 
upset of the Penguins, but the ques
tion remains: Are they for real?
 So far, Isles GM Mike Milbury can 
come away looking like a genius 
(for once). Possibly the strongest 
performers have been free agent 
centers Mike Peca and Alexei 
Y&shin, and Chris Osgood has been 
stellar in net. However, you cant 
oVerlook players like Mark Parrish, 
v\fho has eight goals so far  in only 
fiye games. This is the same Mark
See SURPRISES, page All
BEAR HUG
Washington University 17, Carnegie Mellon 7
by Brad Grantz
Managing Editor
The Tartans are a streaky 
bunch. For 26 consecutive 
years, Carnegie Mellon has 
finished the season with a 
winning record. And three 
more dubious runs were 
continued Saturday as the 
Kilties fell to the Washington 
University Bears 17-7 for 
the third straight time in 
front of a rousing 
Homecoming crowd of 
2,931. CMU (4-1,1-1) failed 
to win a Homecoming con
test for the fourth consecu
tive season. The Tartans also 
continued a streak dating to 
1998 of losing in the week 
following a listing among 
the top 25 Division III teams 
in the nation.
The Kilties not only battied the Bears, but also char
ity and poor field position. 
Giveaways are an important 
part of Saturday football, 
whether it be a Plaid 
Power towel or a computer 
diskette. This past weekend, 
the Tartans gave away the 
footballs  to the opponent.
If you had to boil it all 
down, it came down to field 
position, the kicking game, 
and turnovers. Well just 
have to coach them to keep 
the turnovers to a minimum 
and try to get ourselves bet
ter field position and shore 
up the kicking game, said 
head coach Rich Lackner.
With 10:22 to play in the 
third quarter and Wash U 
leading 7-0, standout junior
Running back Ricardo The Sparke Clarke could not escape the clutches of one of the most stifling run defenses in D-lll. He
kick and galloped 20 yards capped the drive with a twooutside linebacker and 
Pittsburgh native son Frank 
Adam blocked a 50-yard 
field goal attempt by thirdteam All-American
Jonathan Feig. Adam was a
defensive magician, turning 
several Wash U drives into 
dust with big plays.
Senior inside linebacker 
Mike Hubbert, who record
ed 10 tackles, recovered the
to the Wash U 40. Senior 
Adam Urbanczyk replaced 
senior Jeff Stolper at full 
back and ported the pigskin 
six times for 23 yards. He
yard plow that evened the 
score at 7. It appeared the 
Tartans would right the 
wrongs of poor field posi
tion that had emaciated
managed only 53 yards, 
their first half campaigns.
Adam is the type of kid 
that if you need one, he gets 
you two, and if you need 
two? he gets three. [As a 
power back] hes done an 
See BEARS, page All
Womens soccer beats W&L in 2-OT
by Christopher Chung
Special Projects Manager
t Through a strong team effort and 
excellent goalkeeping, the womens 
soccer team was neck and neck with 
tl)e Washington and Lee Generals for 
1J8 minutes this past Saturday. With 
no scoring by either team well into 
the second overtime, despite a 
wealth of shots on goal (18 each for 
the Tartans and Generals) and a 
good number of comer kicks (four 
for the Generals, five for the Tartans), 
it seemed as if a tie would result.
But with less than two minutes 
remaining in the second extra ses
sion, sophomore midfielder Merry 
McConnochie split a pair of defend
ers at 18 yards out on the right side 
and launched a shot into the low far 
comer, clinching a sudden-death win 
for the Tartans, and upping their 
record to 9-2-1. The Generals 
record now stands at 9-3.
It was very rewarding because I 
was having incredible shin splints 
and cramped calf muscles through
out, said McConnochie, who was 
last seasons leading scorer.
Senior goalkeeper Maya Nigrosh 
came up with nine saves for the day, 
playing all 118 minutes, and was key 
in keeping the Tartans in the game 
for so long. The Washington and Lee 
goalkeeper made 14 saves on the day.
The Tartans started the game 
somewhat shaky, but slowly picked 
up and eventually began to dominate
offensively.
Our touches were kind of bad 
from the beginning of the game, but 
we really picked it up towards the 
end, said senior back Katie Snell. It 
was frustrating not being able to 
score because we dominated the end 
of the game and both overtimes.
One of the most painful moments 
came when sophomore defender 
Kelley Bloomquist collided with a 
Washington and Lee player during 
the first overtime, and ended up 
needing stitches. Bloomquist wanted 
to return to the game after receiving
16 stitches, but the Generals coach 
and the referee refused to let her play. 
The decision fired up the team,
See SOCCER, page A9
w s
Administration
Director of Intramurals: Mike 
Mastroianni, x8-2214 or mma8+ 
Assistant Director: Mike
Grzywinski, x8-2214 or immike+ 
Secretary: Amy Kiryk, x8-2053 or 
kiryk-1-
President: Mike Edwards, x2-2993 
or medwards+
Womens President: Amy Tsao, x2- 
2938 or ast+
Vice President: Lou Ransom, x2- 
3933 or lransom+
Important Dates
Monday, October 15  Tennis 
playoffs begin
Tuesday, October 16  IM Board 
Meeting at 3 pm in Gym 
Conference Room
Thursday, October 18  3 Person 
Volleyball rosters due at 4:30 pm in 
the IM Office
Thursday, October 25  Floor 
Hockey and Spades Rosters due by 
4:30 pm in the IM Office
Sports in Season
Flag Football  The finals were 
held Wednesday at the stadium. 
The champions were as follows
Pittsburghs Finest (Majors), Beta 
Black and Blue (Intermediate), 
TSA Predators (Minors), and The 
Hoopers (Women). The TSA title 
was their third in a row.
Cross Country  The IM Cross 
Country Meet was held Wednesday 
in Schenley Park. There were 58 
participants. Ray Ayala won the 
mens division while Beth Byers 
and Carissa Sain tied in the 
womens division. The mens team 
champ was Mr. Yuk Fast and the 
Tartan Hoopers took home the 
womens title.
Tennis  The playoffs start tonight 
at the University courts. Please 
report the score to the IM Office by 
noon the day after the match. In 
the event of rain contact the IM 
Office for a makeup schedule.
Water Polo  The season is under
way at the UC Pool. Schedules are 
available.
Bowling  Matches are played at 
the Pittsburgh Athletic Association 
ianes on Fifth Avenue in Oakland. 
Matches began in September. 
Schedules are available at the IM 
Office. Report scores to the IM 
Office.
Foosball  Schedules are available 
at the IM Office. Report scores to 
the IM Office.
Racquetball  Schedules are avail
able at the IM Office. Matches 
begin last week at the UC Courts. 
Please report scores to the IM 
Office.
Volleyball  6 Person volleyball 
began last week at the UC Gym. 
Schedules are available at the IM 
Office.
Soccer  The IM Soccer season 
started yesterday afternoon. 
Games are played Monday through 
Thursday evenings and Sunday 
afternoons at the IM and Stadium 
fields. Stay off the fields until the 
IM Department says its clear.
Sports Upcoming
Floor Hockey Rosters are due 
Thursday, October 25 by 4:30 pm 
in the IM Office.
All Sports Update (through 
Flag Football): 
Mens:
1. Mens BB 917
2. Beta 600
3. PiKA 583
Womens:
1. Hoopers 800
2. FTH 450
3. Pioneers and Spirit 333
If you have any questions, call the IM 
Office at x8-2214. Remember, all 
email rosters must be received 24 
hours prior to the due date.
Both Tartan cross country teams finished within the top five at Friday afternoon s Duquesne Invitational meet.
Stats aren't all when measuring the best
120 Yards
by RJ Sikdar
Everyone forgets that Don 
Hutson led the NFL in receiving in 
eight of his 11 seasons with the 
Packers beginning in 1935, and 
that Hutson's numbers were nearly 
three times those of any receiver 
who played in his era.  Sports 
Illustrated's Peter King, wondering 
why people assert that Jerry Rice is 
the best wide receiver in the history 
of the NFL.
Peter King has been one of my 
favorite columnists because he gen
erally holds himself accountable, 
shows some perspective and objec
tivity in most of his comments, and 
realizes that before the 49er domi
nance of the 1980s, there were 
actually talented players at the 
quarterback and wide receiver 
positions. He brings up an interest
ing issue in this quote: Who are the 
best players in NFL history, and 
why?
Disclaimer: This will focus on 
quarterbacks, running backs, and 
wide receivers, because they can be 
evaluated easier via statistics and 
championships without actually 
having seen them play live  since 
many good ones played before this 
columnist was born.
Let me start immediately with
the root of the problem. A Sporting 
News fan poll  unscientifically 
conducted, of course  was taken 
during the 2000 season to find the 
team of the millennium. The 
results?
1. QB: Joe Montana (38%) 
RB: Jim Brown (26%)
WR: Jerry Rice (39%)
2. QB: Dan Marino (9%)
RB: Walter Payton (23%) 
WR: Steve Largent (10%)
3. QB: John Elway (8%)
RB: Barry Sanders (14%) 
WR: Don Hutson (8%)
So what? you say. The run
ning backs look fine, and Joe 
See BEST, page A11
Sports

---------------------------------------------------

i* k. >tU *M 1 *. * ? - *  *  
* * *  it
ArtsLiving
THE TARTAN
__________:
Section. B15 October 2001
photos by: Jeff Cullers/Photo Staff - John Davin/Production Manager - Behnam Farahpour/Photo Co-Editor - Andrea Hsu/ Junior Staff - Art by:Erica DiBenedetto/Photo Staff
Famous playwright Arthur Miller speaks of American theater state
by Alissa Green
Staffwriter
I could say that hes a living leg
end, but we already know that, 
was the prelude to the introduction 
announcing the presence of Arthur 
Miller last Monday night at the 
Carnegie Lecture Hall. Turning 
eighty-six this Thursday, one might 
wonder what battles to fight, what 
messages Miller still has 
to impart, but fear not:
Hes still extremely alive 
and wildly kicking.
Best known for his 
plays The Crucible and 
Death of a Salesman,
Miller has been known to 
tackle dark and often 
tragic subjects. And 
while some critics have 
arguably refuted the strength of 
Death of a Salemans Willy Loman 
as a tragic hero, others have 
embraced him on the level of 
Oedipus and Medea. Lately, how
ever, Miller has shifted away from 
writing plays and moved towards 
writing essays, analyzing a new 
modern dilemma: the current state 
of politics.
Reading from his new work, On 
Politics and the Art of Acting, 
Miller discussed Americas new 
political magic trick, the game of 
pretend. Noting that the 2000 
presidential elections bored him 
and the country to tears, Miller 
came up with the idea for the essay 
by pondering the recent and not so 
recent past of politics. He recalled
the excitement and grudging love 
for Clinton, the mysticism of Nixon, 
and the grandeur of Eisenhower. A 
rather fascinating anecdote to sup
port his general thesis, that modern 
politics have and are currently cen
tered on stage performance, 
involved Eisenhowers preparation 
to give a presidential address. 
Miller commented that while 
watching Eisenhower getting his 
make-up done, he couldnt help but
think that it looked as if 
Eisenhower was going onstage to 
pretend to be a general, instead of 
actually, as he was in real life, being 
one. The analysis Miller extends 
towards the situation revolves 
around the idea the American pub
lic needed to see a leading man in 
the presidential role, a strong, 
courageous and steady leading 
man, and Eisenhower was merely 
beefing up the part.
On a side note, one of the most 
curiously awing aspects of Millers 
reading was the simple aspect that 
Miller talked of the legends of 
today, theatrical, political, person
al, as flesh and blood people. He 
could; he knew most of them. He 
spoke of a sidewalk conversation
with Dustin Hoffman where 
Hoffman mentioned a little movie 
he was making that he hoped 
would work out alright. That little 
movie was to be called The 
Graduate.
But beyond Millers star power, 
his insights hit home. Reading that 
acting, onstage or off is power, no 
different than the power that can 
lead nations, Miller offered vari
ous comments on what exactly 
makes a leading man, be it 
Marlon Brandos style or 
George Bushs. The world 
of television only empha
sized this growing need for 
political personas emitting 
airs of stateliness, leader
ship, and security. Miller 
may not be far off saying 
that television changed the 
world of politics entirely 
and forever, turning all of 
Washington into disguised theater 
critics. Going with that analogy, 
how nice it would have been if we 
could have only walked out on our 
choices for election this past term.
But the point of Millers reading 
was not to produce disillusionment 
of the state of government. Rather, 
he hopes that people will simply 
start recognizing the platforms 
beyond the stage make-up and cos
tumes. I hope people take away 
the resolve to penetrate what the 
issues are and not be deflected by 
some of the acting, which is pretty 
tough to do. Were all emotional 
creatures, and when our emotions 
are appealed to, we sometimes for
get whaL the issues really are.
Were all emotional creatures, 
and when our emotions are 
appealed to, we sometimes for
get what the issues really are.
Arthur Miller
Frames within frames: Students ponder prints and talk about memories at the newest exhibition at 
The Frame by Jill Palermo and Kimberly Brucker, senior Art students.

Scotch n9 Soda presents story of | twin brothers separated at birth
by Tiffany Lee
Staffwriter
Scotch n Soda presented their 
first production of the year, Blood 
Brothers, by Willy Russell, on 
October 13. The two showings, one 
at 7 pm and the other at 10 pm, 
were a huge success and evoked 
positive audience reactions.
Blood Brothers is about a pair of 
twins, Mickey (Adam Atkins) and 
Eddie (Chris Moyer), who are sepa
rated by birth because their mother
(Sola Fasehun) cannot afford to 
raise both of them. In order to 
solve the problem, the mother 
gives one to Mrs. Lyons (Illeana 
Hernandez), and both agree that 
neither twin can ever know of the 
others existence. These circum
stances lead to one twin being 
brought up in poverty, while the 
other is brought up in wealth. 
Despite the twins mothers attempt 
to keep them apart, they become 
friends anyway. That is how the 
story of Blood Brothers begins.
The stellar cast included Andy
Stumme (narrator); Tom Bolster 
(Mr. Lyons); Joslyn Erickson 
(Linda); Timothy Fife (Sammy); 
Andrea Paul (Donna Marie); Josh 
Godick (Jack of all Trades); Lavina 
Jadhwai (Mrs. Jones); Pete 
Capriello (Police Officer); Berit 
Nowicki (Woman); and those 
already mentioned. The ensemble 
was made up of Clara BittnerRossmiller; Anatoliy Kats; Cheryl 
Tomblin; and Hueiyen Tsai. 
Everyone deserves credit for help
ing make Blood Brothers a success.
See BROTHERS, page B2

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 15, 2001
Friday, October 12, 8 pm 
Sunday, October 14, 2:30 pm
The Most Happy Fella makes theatre critic most happy audience member
by Alissa Green
Staffwriter
The School of Music presented a 
top-notch production of Frank 
Loessers The Most Happy Fella each 
day from October 11 through 14. 
David Pfeiffer must be commended 
as the director and choreographer 
of a wonderful production of a 
musical that is nearly three hours 
long, in addition to involving a 
large ensemble. Robert Page also 
deserves much admiration for his 
work as the musicals conductor. 
Something about the word critic 
suggests that I should criticize. So, 
Ive changed my job title to verbal
izing fan for this musical. I loved 
it. I saw The Most Happy Fella once 
and then I planned to see it again 
the next day.
The music itself was memorable 
and performed beautifully. Two 
pianos provided the accompani
ment for the entire musical, save a 
handful of acapella songs. The 
piano score was beautiful, but it 
never took away attention from the
characters and singing. The literal 
story may not have been the most 
profound, but the talent involved in 
this production was outstanding.
The cast was not the same for 
every show, but judging from the 
quality of the performers in the 
October 12 show, I have no doubt 
that The Most Happy Fella was 
worth seeing on any day. Nathan 
Motta, a senior, played the musi
cals main character, Tony. As won
derful as his singing was, I believe 
his voice was superceded by his 
abilities as an actor. The entire 
audience seemed impressed by the 
rich and soothing soprano of Emily 
Motherwell, a senior student that 
played the main character, 
Rosabella. Liam Bonner, a junior, 
played another main character, 
Joe, and also truly struck me with 
the quality of his voice. Katie 
Sullivan, a senior, gave a comical 
but realistic rendition of Cleo that 
made her one of the more memo
rable characters of the musical. 
Joseph Haughton, Daniel 
Radzikowski, and Jason Kaminski 
formed an operatic trio of chefs for
Hmnony u Muria/rnoio diaii
The School of Music presented Frank Loessers The Most Happy Fella last 
week from October 11-14. The entire cast was superb, despite varying for 
each performance.
additional comic relief. Haughton, 
a senior, impressed me in particular 
with his ability to breathe spirit 
into notes with both his charm as 
an actor and his immense singing 
talent.
Audience members smiled and 
laughed out loud for countless 
scenes during the show. The songs 
were well choreographed and per
formers used not only the entire 
stage, but the entire theatre. 
Standing on the Corner, a song 
about four guys checking out girls, 
had perhaps the most entertaining 
choreography of the musical. The 
songs involving a trio of chefs also
had particularly entertaining 
choreography.
The audience could interpret the 
storys time period and various 
aspects of the characters from the 
costuming. Also, the set and props 
were entirely appropriate and 
added to the musicals presentation 
without standing out separately.
This production of The Most 
Happy Fella should be noted for 
its combination of musical talent 
and comic relief. I cant tell if The 
Most Happy Fella required an 
unusual amount of vocal skill, or 
if the performers just presented 
an overabundance of talent.
Anthony D'Auria/Photo Staff
The Most Happy Fella was part of the Homecoming festivities on campus. 
David Pfeiffer directed and choreographed the nearly three-hour musical.
Blood Brothers followediby inaugural awards show!
BROTHERS, from page B1
Among the other people to be 
commended are the directors 
Michael D. Gutenplan and Clare 
Drobot. The musical director 
(Justin A. Malakhow), production 
manager (Michael Creegan), tech
nical director (James Johnson), 
and the rest of the crew also 
deserve to be recognized for their 
part in helping make sure the show 
ran smoothly.
All in all, the combination of tal
ent, from music to lighting, and 
everything in between, made the 
nights events a success. Everyone 
involved in the production 
deserves to be congratulated on a 
job well done.
However, the performance was
not the only memorable occasion;! 
of the night. Following the 10 pm;! 
shows intermission, the inaugural;! 
Leonard Buzz Blair Award for the;! 
Performing Arts was given to;! 
Alfred Lehman (49). Lehman is an*! 
Emmy award-winning costume-! 
designer, whose credits included 
Laverne and Shirley, Murder Shei! 
Wrote, and Threes Company. \\ 
The award, which is named after!! 
founding Scotch n Soda member,;! 
Leonard Buzz Blair, is to be;j 
awarded annually during;! 
Homecoming to a Scotch n Soda;} 
alumnus who has contributed;! 
greatly to the performing arts. We;j 
look forward to honoring more;! 
accomplished Scotch n Soda-j 
alumni in the future.
ESSAY CONTEST 2002
SDC ,enC aeCtCf
PrT7V TNT TWirQ i ivlZiJ UN LjX rllv>(U
SUGGESTED TOPICS
H7/V are we hew? How are we to meet our ethical obligations?
Reflect on the most profound moral dilemma yon 
have encountered and what it has tatight you about ethics.
What ethical issue concerns you most and what 
concrete proposals would you make to deal with it ?
ELIGIBILITY: FULL-TIME JUNIOR AND SENIOR UNDERGRADUATES 
DEADLINE: DECEMBER 1. 2001
In addition to completing a Student Entry Form, the student is required to 
have a professor review the essay and fill out a Faculty Sponsor Form. Any 
interested professor may act as a Faculty Sponsor. The college or university 
is not required to have an official coordinator for the contest; however, 
your campus may have, or wish to establish, an internal set of procedures.
FIRST PRIZE: $5,000 
SECOND PRIZE: $2.500 THIRD PRIZE: $1,500
Carnegie Almanac
GET IN FREE WITH VftLID CMU STUDENT ID
y#USIBELIUS: Symphony No. 5 
OLIVERIO; "The Messenger" Batterie des Temps 
Immemorial, commissioned by the Pittsburgh Symphony 
GRIEG: .--j 1029 Suite
ormwc
PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY CLASSICS
EXPAND IT.
Start yourThursday night off with a trip to Carnegie Museums of Art and Natural History. 
Where you can learn about everything from Degas to dinosaurs to diamonds.
Grab something to eat. Even pick up a gift. AH by 9:00 pm
T
 Carnegie Museum of Natural  History
CARNEGIE MUSEUM OF ART
Two of the four Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh  Forbes Avenue, Oakland  Ample on-site parking
Osmo Vnsk, conductor
Timothy Adams, timpani and percussion
reserve discounted tickets at the university center information
desk or call 412/392-4900
Order online www.pittsburghsymphony.org
75 years ago, October 19, 1926  Part-time work by students yieldr ed an income of over $100,000. The summer of 1926 showed interesting 
! data for student employment in various business and industrial fields. 
, The majority of students were employed as waiters. The remainder of the 
! students worked as attendants, clerks, chauffeurs, draftsmen, and salesI men. A few earned money by doing blood transfusions.
The Coal conference was being planned for November. They planned to 
; discuss smokeless cities as a focus of this event. They hoped to make the 
; process of forming new methods of pre-treating soft coal to produce oils 
! mainstream and commercially feasible.
 50 years ago, October 17, 1951  To celebrate homecoming, the
> University cancelled classes on Friday afternoon. Students went to the 
, gymnasium to see the crowning of the freshmen homecoming queen. The 
! fraternity homecoming decorations were judged. Freshmen and sopho! more classes had a football competition following those events.
I There was a bill before the Pennsylvania legislature that would require
! all educators in state supported schools to take an oath of loyalty to the 
United States of America denying membership in any subversive group. 
The Carnegie Tartan was against it and felt there was a difference 
between studying and advocating communist doctrine.
25 years ago, October 12, 1976  As a result of a controversial
Mark Kamlet, dean of the H. John Heinz III School of Policy and 
Management, received the coveted John Heinz III Deans award. Richard-, 
Florida, professor of management and public policy and director for the *! 
Center Economic Development, received the professor of Regional^ 
Economic Development chair.
The International Festival focused on the Caribbean and Latin America ' 
this year. Derek Walcott, a 1992 Nobel Prize winning poet, spoke about his ! 
poems and his accomplishments as a Nobel laureate.
*1
1 year ago, October 16, 2000  University radio station WRCT ]\
received complaints from several faculty members for being too loud during their Friday outside playing sessions. Compromises such as playing in;!
different locations and lowering their volume did not seem to appease the;!
faculty members. They were forced to shutdown at the beginning of the;!
semester. !
Various student organizations on campus, including Student Activities, !
Activities Board, Student Senate, Student Dormitory Council, the!
Homecoming Special Events committee, Laurel Networks, Alumni*!
Relations, and the Student Alumni Relations Council, joined together to !
bring the band Blues Traveler to campus to celebrate the centennial cele!
bration. !!iiiCompiled by| 
Sriram Gollapalli and Jonathan Pearce '
Our Principal Timpanist takes a 
star turn in a concerto especially 
commissioned for him. Follow 
Griegs great musical adven
ture Peer Gynt, featuring 
the popular classic 
In the Hall of the 
Mountain King.
Pittsburgh Symphony 
Hall
advertisement in a previous issue, The Tartan was forced to put their pol
icy about provocative advertising into writing. The advertisement in 
question featured a photograph of a naked woman and was criticized by 
some for its intimate tone. The Tartans Editorial Board was unapologetic 
for running the advertisement for the CMU Karate Club, but noted that 
the ad was more or less a failure as it failed to generate positive press.
10 years ago, October 21, 1991  Student Senate cut funding 
for some campus organizations Buggy programs. The Senate will 
now pay for 25 percent of the organizations Buggy budget every 
year and 66 percent of the cost of the Buggy every three years.
Carnegie Mellon Dining Services (CMDS) was facing a deficit at 
the end of the fiscal year. One of the factors that contributed to this 
upcoming deficit was that there was a drop in the meal plan mem
bership.
The Carnegie Mellon Go Club held an event concurrently with 
International Festival. All students were invited to participate from 
beginners to very strong players such as Fred Hansen, who won the 
Shodan section at the US Open.
5 years ago, October 21,1996  The Carnegie Mellon Graduate School 
of Industrial Administration (GSIA) slipped from 14th to 17th in its rank
ings. However, GSIA ranked above Harvard, Cornell, and Michigan and 
MIT in the Operations category.
CMU studentsStudent Rush*12
two hours before 
every concert!

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
the tartan needs to fill some 
positions.
If you're responsible, fun, 
have some 
time to spate, we want you. 
come on. y$u know you
who we want....
arts & living editor 
entertainment editor 
dossier literary editor
let Us know....
tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
X8-2111
paid in part by your student activities ha.
were back.
www.thetartan.org
H
ir-.:
It*m,
rfr" -jsm' 4
v t..' t .
us..--'

---------------------------------------------------

HOW TO USE THE BATHROOM.
@>you know dxat you use up to 55 gallons 
of water a day in the bathroom? Its true. So heres f 
some simple bathroom training to help conserve 
water, lum off die faucet while brushing your 
teeth. lake shoiter showers. Put a weighted jug in 
your toilet tank. Itll cut water loss by 15%.
And if you cant remember these tips, take this 
I piper wirli you the next time you go. I~800~MY~SHARE
ITS A CONNECTED WORLD. DO YOUR SHARE.
I. Earth Share
Commonly
Unbearable.
Dangerously
Believable.
Subsequently
Fatal.
#1 Cause of Suicide
UNTRIATID
DBPRBSSiON
http://www.save.org
p:
CELEBRATE AMERICA 
BENEFIT DANCE
with 
Live Band &
Dance Lesson
FREE ADMISSION
Open to ALL 
Donations Collected
TIME & LOCATION
Wednesday Oct 17th 
6:0010:00 PM 
Rangos Ballroom
LIVE MUSIC
Carnegie Mellon s 
All-Student 
Giants of Jazz Ensemble
DANCE LESSON
6:00 to 7:00 PM 
CMU Ballroom 
Dance Club
Questions? Contact
>and rew.cmu.edu
* ' 1 ; flMSHS : 1
IBI  I > 1  PSf 1 I..............................-iiSi
WKm
gm. m m mGain an edge on 
planning your career.
Ask the questions you want.

Hear the answers you need,
from Merrill Lynch.
 <  II I , ifii Ifiwy
#1 I * OT
ai: I mSm: -  f.- ~ MfFirst year MBAs, sophomore and 
junior undergraduates:
Please join Carlos Valle, Managing Director & Global
Business Head of Recruiting for an online discussion of
his career path and keys to success at Merrill Lynch.
Versatility is a Virtue:
Making it Work in a Challenging Marketplace 
Live. Wednesday, October 17th, 8:00-9:00pm EOT
Online at www.wetfeet.com ~ '
Brought to you by
Wasit yoi
y
Every minute of every day, donated blood saves lives. 
Accident victims, cancer patientssomeone's child, 
someone's parent, someone's friend.
Please give blood.
Call today to make an appointment.
1-800-GIVE LIFE
Someone needs youright now.
American Red CrossTogether, we can save a life
1i800ingpv fguv A cccb.Lmy.TOObT.W

---------------------------------------------------

DELIVERY
4740 Baum Boulevard
i% appficafiic to*. '* '"<1 fif No anipfti necessary
Wm.^ m vvitiiVafiiiStwfcnt I.D.
Wt Accept Dine Express.
E^iry 2/28/01
AvaiMe at partiripafiruj stares cmfy..
The Strongest Guarantee in the Business!
'Every Tizza Outlet pizza comes with 100% fresfi 
and natural ingredients. And our 100% guarantee: 
If you art not 100% satisfied utitfi our product or 
service, cad us mtfiin 6 hours and return tfie product 
'Wedreplace it free orgive you a 100% refund - 
IBecause at (Pizza Outlet>
tfie customer comes first.on DineEx and Campus Funds!
Pizza, Wings, Chicken 
Sandwiches, Spaghetti 
Dinners, and more. 
Not to mention Hot Dogs 
French Fries, Burgers, 
and Steak Hoagies.
PHONE 412-687-8327
11am - 2am Daily
* $8.00 minimum
Pick up a menu at either 
Original Hog Qog Shop (CMU or Oakland)
Q
 Under normal driving conditions, do anti-lock brakes (ABS) 
allow you to come to a stop more quickly in a shorter distance 
than conventional brakes?
1 FREEQardc Dipping Sauce! 
witft any pizzaxj The correct answer is NO. Alarmingly, more than half of all drivers 
wrongly think that ABS shortens stopping distance.
Source: AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety nationwide survey of 873 drivers conducted in December, 1994 
by Bruskin/Gold ring Research ___________________________________________________________________________________________________comWWW
$29.99
MINUTE/PASS
UNTRIAD&WMM
Introducing MinutePass
 Great low rates - home and away
 Minutes carry over and never expire
 Instantly rechargeable - add minutes to your card anytime
 Great international rates
 MinutePass makes great gifts too!
Get your MinutePass NOW!
Visit Call Go totninutepass.com 1-800-777-5000 imrxCid
<af participating stores>
8y purchasing or using this card, you accept these Terms and the Terms listed at both www.rrtnutepass.com and with Customer Service at 1-B00-325-0754, as they are updated from time to time. Additional shipping and handling charges may apply. Maximum telecom value 8c -12c a minute, depending on 
card purchased. Pay phone calls have an additional 25c surcharge. Minute value assumes no pay phone calls. Call prices are rounded to the nearest whole cent. Usage rounded to the next full minute.
 2001 TelecomUSA. All Rights Reserved.
IIr

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

MCu o, 
<
c
r^
o
VfHf Q 
8 ci
o3
C/D#*NQJS-^^^^
go
aj
\  iqj o 1^ /**\ T4V*4 C^J
C 00V-H \ 1
U \Dc3
  : OJc/Dajt.iT . Q_i.bb R
gno,CL<
vctsltk<L>OoCJO
H
V4CL> 
$icu
J
tv!
 I ..immf
wmmm4
H
2001 Apple Computer, inc. All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

Science ^Technology
15 October qooiTHE TARTANPage B7
Building back doors into encryption protocols to 
prevent terrorism could have varied implications
by John Davin
Production Manager
In an age when the power of technology has 
risen at an amazing rate, it has also alarmed leg
islators on Capitol Hill. In the wake of the 
September 11 terrorist attacks, a host of restric
tions to personal liberties have been proposed. 
One of them is the notion of providing the gov
ernment with backdoors to all encryption tech
nology. In other words, the government would 
require that all encryption products provide a 
master key to the encryption technology that 
would allow law enforcement (FBI, CIA) to 
decode any transmissions that used the encryp
tion. Proponents believe that this would allow 
federal agencies to read terrorist communica
tions and therefore have a greater ability to 
monitor their plans.
Encryption is used daily by businesses and 
consumers to send secure communications over 
the Internet. For example, logging into your 
bank account or making a purchase online is 
carried out using encryption so that your 
account numbers can not be easily stolen. 
Although encrypted communication could theo
retically be decoded by an eavesdropper, it 
requires such an enormous level of computing 
that it is generally not feasible. The state of cur
rent encryption technology has advanced to the 
point where even the government with a few 
supercomputers at its disposal can not easily 
decode encrypted communications.
Leading the anti-encryption crusade is 
Senator Judd Gregg, a Republican representing 
New Hampshire. In a Senate floor speech, 
Gregg called for global back doors on encryption 
products. According to Gregg, We are in a new 
world and we have to give our law enforcement 
community more tools.
There has quickly been a strong response in 
the tech community questioning the dubious 
success of such a plan and the long-range 
impacts it might have. The first issue of con
tention is over whether or not back doors on 
encryption would succeed in the goal of moni
toring terrorist communications.
According to a September 18 Reuters report, 
an FBI official stated that the hijackers used the 
Internet to communicate and that the emails 
were in English and Arabic, that there were hun
dreds of communications, and the emails were 
not just limited to the United States. The hijack
ers did not use encryption techniques, the offi
cial said. Therefore it is unlikely that govern
ment back doors on encryption technology 
would have helped prevent the attacks of 
September 11.
There has been speculation that terrorists may 
utilize stenography to send messages. 
Stenography is the technique of hiding messages 
in other forms - for example, messages can be 
disguised as images on eBay or pornographic 
sites. However, stenography is different from 
encryption because encryption involves the 
encoding of a message while stenography only 
implies the concealment of a message in anoth
er form (though both techniques may be used 
together to increase security). Senator Gregg 
has not mentioned stenography in regard to his 
planned bill. Stenography is an even trickier 
problem than cryptography because stenogra
phy can not be outlawed without restricting 
practically every form of speech. The crux of 
this comes down to the fact that if terrorists 
want to communicate securely, they will.
The government should focus on methods to 
detect communications (i.e., by using Web 
crawlers that analyze images for stenographic 
content) and infiltrate terrorist networks (possi
bly through the use of good old flesh-and-blood
spies).
In addition to the fact that encryption back 
doors would likely be of limited usefulness, 
there are practical and ideological issues to con
sider. Requiring encryption products to contain, 
in essence, built-in flaws would result in inse
cure communications that could be compro
mised by outside parties. American businesses 
would be at a competitive disadvantage because 
they would be forced to produce insecure 
encryption products while foreign companies 
could produce secure products. Of course, in 
order for back doors to succeed, the United 
States would have to implement the plan on an 
international level. Other countries would have 
to be persuaded to adopt the same restrictions. 
Not only would this be difficult, it would likely 
be impossible to completely eliminate encryp
tion products that did not contain government 
backdoors. Would a terrorist go buy new 
encryption software that the government has a 
key to? Certainly not. He would continue to use 
secure products that already exist, such as PGP 
(Pretty Good Privacy).
Surprisingly (or perhaps not, depending on 
your opinion), 72 percent of Americans believe 
that anti-encryption laws would be somewhat 
or very helpful in preventing a repeat of the 
September 11 terrorist attacks. This was the 
result of a poll conducted by Princeton Survey 
Research Associates on September 13 and 14. 
However, Simon Davies, director of human 
rights group Privacy International, wisely point
ed out No one should ever trust figures collect
ed in the aftermath of a disaster; people are con
fused and emotional and will be led easily by 
imagery.
Hopefully Congress will consult with appro
priate industry experts before making any deci
sions about encryption standards over the 
Internet.National Science Foundation announces grants for 
projects in tele-immersion and quantum dynamics
by Sriram Vaidhyanathan
Science & Technology Editor
The Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center stole 
the limelight once again, just a week after the 
announcement of the completion of the 
Terascale Computing System (TCS), the most 
powerful system in the world dedicated to 
unclassified research. This time, however, the 
local research institution received news of two 
grants from the National Science Foundation 
(NSF) in the fields of quantum molecular 
dynamics and tele-immersion.
The two separate projects are to be supported 
by generous amounts from the Information 
Technology Research program, which seeks to 
further applications of information technology 
in the fields of science, engineering, and educa
tion, not to mention innovative infrastructure to 
support IT research and education. The pro
gram, administered by the NSF, is in its second 
year.
Tele-immersion is an interdisciplinary field 
dedicated to creating a new medium for human 
interaction, enabled by digital technology, that 
creates the illusion of a person being in the same 
physical space as another person, even though 
they may be on opposite sides of the globe. It 
deals with both computer vision technologies as 
well as the display and interaction techniques 
involved in virtual reality. The grant awards, 
which were announced on September 28 gave 
$2.65 million over three years to further the 
tele-immersion project at the PSC. The eventual 
goal of the project is said to be to create real
time, high quality tele-immersion in 3D. 
Fostering real-time immersion over large dis
tances may have been the premise of several sci
ence fiction novels of yesteryear, but the project 
hopes to be able to create and test their proto
types of the fledgling technology.
The tele-immersion project is set to be carried
out between the Pittsburgh Supercomputing 
Center, the University of Pennsylvania, and the 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Split 
up into three stages, the project hopes to capture 
the image data using 60 cameras at the 
University of Pennsylvania, send the data to the 
Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center to extract a 
3D model, and eventually send over to UNC - 
Chapel Hill, to display the interactive model. 
Henry Fuchs, scientist at UNC, will lead the pro
ject.
The TCS, capable of running large-scale com
putations in batches, is said to be the ideal back
bone for the real-time feature of the technology. 
The TCS was originally developed by Carnegie 
Mellon University, the University of Pittsburgh, 
and the Westinghouse Electric Company to fill 
the gap in US basic research, as outlined by a 
1999 presidential report. Capable of six trillion 
instructions per second, the system is the most 
powerful open resource available to researchers 
seeking answers to a wide variety of problems. 
Some of the expected applications of the system 
are expected to be as diverse as space weather 
modeling, virtual tests for therapeutic cancer 
drugs, testing models of the formation of cos
mological structures, the large-scale structure of 
galaxy clusters, and the simulations of shock 
waves and eddies in turbulent fluids.
The other grant received by the Center was for 
furthering research into quantum molecular 
dynamics. The specific area under research is 
involving Car-Parrinello ab initio molecular 
dynamics (CPAIMD). Proposed in 1985 by 
Robert Car of Princeton University and Michele 
Parrinello of the Swiss Federal Institute of 
Technology in Zurich, CPAIMD is a simulation 
technology employed in materials science, solidstate physics and chemistry. The grant amounts 
to $207,000 over four years, and the research is 
headed by PSC scientist Nicholas Nystrom. The 
project comprises of scientists from the 
University of Illinois, the University of 
Pennsylvania, Princeton University, New York
University, and Indiana University.
The target of the project is to make the simu
lation a more accessible and multi-functional 
tool. CPAIMD algorithms will be tested, opti
mized and evaluated on PSCs Terascale System. 
CPAIMD methods will be developed to be more 
efficient and of higher accuracy, and the hope of 
the project is that they will be able to release 
extensible open source software modules that 
are compatible over several processors in the 
short-term and even more in the long term. 
Novel hardware design, based on the use of low 
cost components from emerging technologies 
will be used to configure higher-level systems 
for a specific class of applications.
As opposed to classical molecular dynamics, 
the CPAIMD simulation is capable of producing 
a computational solution to solve Newtons 
equations with forces obtained by explicitly con
sidering the electrons in the system. It models 
complex events such as chemical bond breaking 
and forming, and its high degree of realism 
makes it potentially useful for a wide variety of 
problems. Applications to be studied in this pro
ject include: the design of low-cost biomimetic 
materials; nanomaterials and polymers with 
novel behaviors and improved properties for use 
in aircraft, cars, and clothing; the behavior of 
materials under extreme conditions to enable 
improved models of geological processes; and 
the design of temperature-resistant ceramics.
According to a press release, the applications 
team includes Car and Annabella Selloni 
(Princeton), Michael Klein (Penn), Mark 
Tuckerman (NYU), and Glenn Martyna 
(Indiana). The computer science team includes 
Nystrom (PSC), Josep Torrellas (Illinois), and 
Laxmikant Kale (Illinois). The researchers will 
use their interdisciplinary expertise to get work 
on the projects underway around the country.
The Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center is was 
established in 1986 and is supported by several 
federal agencies, the Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvania, and private industry.
Behnam Farahpour/Photo Co-Editor
The Verizon Foundation Distinguished Lecture Series continued this 
past Friday with Professor James Fishkin delivering a talk entitled 
"Models of Internet democracy. Professor Fishkin is the chair of 
political science at the University of Texas-Austin.
Codewarrior software 
license agreement with 
Metrowerks negotiated
by Sriram Vaidhyanathan
Science & Technology Editor
This week, Carnegie Mellon 
added another piece of software 
to its list of site licensed titles 
available at no cost to the campus 
community. Students can now 
with the download the 
Metrowerks Codewarrior soft
ware from the Internet for free.
Introductory level courses at 
Carnegie Mellon are offered in 
Java from this semester on, and 
the software used in the classes is 
predominantly the Codewarrior 
development environment creat
ed by Metrowerks. However, it 
used to be the case that the soft
ware was not available in many 
clusters around campus, and stu
dents in the classes were some
times required to go over to the 
Wean Hall clusters to complete 
their homework and exam prepa
ration. With the recently complet
ed agreement of the site license, 
the students are free to grab a 
copy of their Version of the soft
ware from the Introductory 
Programming Web page.
The School of Computer 
Sciences Director of
Undergraduate Labs and
Technology, Jacobo Carrasquel, 
negotiated the licensing agree
ment with Metrowerks for 
Codewarrior development tools. 
The software itself is a multi-host, 
multi-language, and multi-target 
development software used by 
developers for application cre
ation. The license allows all stu
dents, faculty, and staff to obtain a 
free copy of the software, includ
ing the integrated development 
environment (IDE) tools for 
C/C++ for MacOS/Windows, 
Java, Linux, Solaris, and PalmOS.
Metrowerks is a division of 
Motorola, and the Codewarrior 
development tools claim to accel
erate the process of software cre
ation by integrating an editor, 
compiler, linker, and debugger 
into a single application, all con
trolled by an easy-to-use graphical 
user interface (GUI). The flexible 
architecture of the package is said 
to provide choices at several lev
els, and also allows faster writing 
of code with highly flexible tools. 
Metrowerks has strengthened its 
position in recent times with 
industry collaborations with 
Apple Computer Co., Microsoft 
Corporation, Sun Microsystems, 
and Sony Computer
Entertainment, Inc.
Students around campus were 
in favor of the agreement, since 
those who owned laptops or PCs 
in their dorm rooms would now 
be able to work from their rooms 
as opposed to finding a cluster 
computer to use. A first-year in 
MCS commented that the agree
ment would allow for him to 
manage his time in a more 
relaxed fashion.
Instructions for downloading 
and installing the software are 
available at the site http://tarball.intro.cs.cmu.edu. In order to 
satisfy the licensing agreement, 
the site only accepts connections 
from the cmu.edu domain.
Nobel Prize in chemistry shared between two Americans 
and one Japanese for revolutionary research on chirality
Courtesy Jason S. Bardi
Barry Sharpless of the Scripps Research 
Institute in La Jolla, California, is seen answer
ing questions fielded by the press. Sharpless 
was named in the Nobel prize awards for 
Chemistry this year.
STOCKHOLM, Sweden (AP) - Two Americans and a 
Japanese scientist shared the Nobel Prize in chemistry 
Wednesday for showing how to better control chemical 
reactions, paving the way for medicines including a nowstandard treatment for Parkinsons disease.
William S. Knowles, 84, of St. Louis, Mo. and Ryoji 
Noyori, 63, of Nagoya University in Japan shared half of 
the $943,000 award. K. Barry Sharpless, 60, of the 
Scripps Research Institute in La Jolla, Calif., won the 
other half.
Their research deals with the fact that many molecules 
appear in two forms that are mirror images of each other, 
just like the left and right hands. Cells generally respond 
correctly to only one of these forms, while the other form 
might be harmful. Drugs often use such mirror-image 
molecules, and the difference between the two forms can 
be a matter of life and death.
The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, which choos
es the winners, singled out as an example the drug 
thalidomide, used by pregnant women in the 1960s. One 
form of the drug helped control nausea, while its oppo
site form caused birth defects.
Research by the Nobel winners has produced ways of 
making only the proper form of molecules, leading to 
antibiotics, anti-inflammatory drugs, ulcer treatments, 
heart medications - even flavorings and sweeteners.
The discovery can move frontiers of research forward 
in medicine, chemistry and biology, Per Alberg, a mem
ber of the academys Nobel Committee, said at a news 
conference in Stockholm, Sweden. Its a breakthrough 
that started 33 years ago but the development is incre
mental.
Knowles breakthrough came in 1968, when he was 
working for the Monsanto Co. in St. Louis. He found a 
way to produce the helpful form of the amino acid Ldopa, which is used to treat Parkinsons disease.
Last year, Arvid Carlsson of Sweden won the Nobel 
Prize in medicine for showing L-dopa is effective against 
Parkinsons.
Noyori developed materials that encourage particular 
chemical reactions, making it easier for companies to 
produce large amounts of antibiotics and other drugs.
Sharpless in 1980 did experiments that led to a 
method for creating beta-blockers, a widely used class of
heart drugs. His research has been described by many 
scientists as the most important discovery in the field of 
synthesis during the past few decades, the academy 
said.
The physics award went Tuesday to German scientist 
Wolfgang Ketterle and Americans Eric A. Cornell and 
Carl E. Wieman for creating a new state of matter that 
could lead to ways of producing faster electronics. On 
Monday, Leland H. Hartwell of the United States and 
Britons Tim Hunt and Paul Nurse won the medicine prize 
for work on cell development that could lead to new can
cer treatments.
Last years chemistry prize went to Alan J. Heeger and 
Alan G. MacDiarmid of the United States and Hideki 
Shirakawa of Japan for their discovery that plastic can 
conduct electricity as well as insulate, reducing interfer
ence on photographic film and computer screens.
The literature prize will be announced on Thursday 
and the peace prize on Friday. To mark the 100th 
anniversary of the prizes, all living laureates have been 
invited to the Dec. 10 award ceremony, with some 150 
expected in Stockholm and 30 in Oslo.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
15 October 2001THE TARTANPage B8
sCmvM UCimf TwvmteHw
Reviewer takes different 
stand on Candira albumGod Forbid album Determination 
re-invents metal music of the past
by Albert Cohen
Staffwriter
Some things, like peanut butter 
and chocolate, mix surprisingly 
well. Others, like peanut butter and 
tuna fish, are combinations that 
should never even be spoken of. 
After listening to Candirias latest, 
Im inclined to believe that death 
metal and jazz fall into the first cat
egory. Upon popping the disc in my 
CD player, I was assaulted by the 
leadoff (and title) track and pound
ed into submission. After five min
utes of pain and anguish, I came 
upon a small interlude where the 
music gets more and more evil. The 
build-up continues with a little bit 
of a Pink Floyd-ish, non-sensical 
monolgue. Its all very disjointed on 
first and even subsequent listens, 
but some parts actually start to 
work. The chunky bass lines, and 
the screams cue the listener that 
this is a pure death metal album.
If you believe that, then you 
havent heard the buzz about this 
band. Rolling Stone magazine 
called them one of the 10 most 
important metal bands. (What the 
hell do they know about metal? 
Alien Ant Farm and Linkin Park? 
Please) Alternative Press loves them 
and gave them a 9/10, and even the 
British rock magazine Kerrang said 
they were ... probably the greatest 
band on the planet earth right 
now. All of this is heady stuff for a 
band out of New York that seeks to
mix in everything including the 
kitchen sink into their sound. So, 
with all of this in mind, I was curi
ous to see what all the hubbub was 
about. Dont get me wrong, a lot of 
this album works. The jazz segues 
work as a cool set-up to the rest of 
the album, and the atmospheric 
parts, although nothing new 
(check out Neurosis), gives the 
album a creepy feel. I like a lot of 
this album, in fact.
After a few listens, you see the 
album as a whole instead of wow, 
theyve heard of John Coltrane, or 
comparing it to what Syd Barrett 
might have done with a banshee 
wail that bleeds into a growl. But, 
if you havent sensed by now, there 
are elements that I cant stand. 
First off, this album has shown me 
that (death) metal and hardcore 
rap dont always mix well. Im 
sorry, but I pledge my allegiance to 
Stuck Mojo and Biohazard before 
this album. These guys are more 
than competent and professional 
players, but if I, someone who has 
absolutely no musical talent, could 
give anyone musical advice, it 
would simply be that more is not 
always better. I repeat, some of the 
mixed elements on this album 
worked fantastically well but some 
should have been left behind. 
Words From the Lexicon is an 
example of something that just 
isnt my cup of Jack Daniels. The 
gangster rap in this song isnt for 
me, so I reached for the skip butSee CANDIRIA, page B9
?aNQlina
300 percENt cJGNsity
Courtesy of Candira
by Albert Cohen
Staffwriter
Some musical genres seem to 
bleed into each other, blurring 
the lines that divide forms of 
musical expression. Many years 
ago, probably before most of us 
were even born, punk rockers and 
metalheads would duke it out at 
if, say, a mullet was spotted at a 
punk show. But, when forwardthinking bands like Corrosion of 
Conformity ignored all of that 
and put out their politically 
charged and punk-tinged metal, 
that all started to change. Now, I 
personally have never heard a dif
ference between lets say, ProPain and Pantera; both are loud, 
aggressive, and sound cool.
And it seems that God Forbid 
agrees with that. Their latest
offering, Determination, takes the 
melodic sound that Swedish 
death metal bands have been 
using for the past ten years or so 
and mix that with a hardcore 
anger and focus. The opening riff 
on Dawn of the Millenia or the 
solo from Divide my Destiny, 
could have fit in perfectly on 
Megadeths Rust in Peace (yes, 
they are that technically sound), 
but the vocals sound as if they 
came from the throat of All Out 
War or Earth Crisis. Now, these 
are all bands that Im sure that the 
members of God Forbid are 
thrilled to be mentioned in the 
same paragraph as, but I havent 
really done them or their music 
any justice. The sound they pos
sess is truly their own, but I cant 
describe it past suggesting previ
ous bands. And I say previous 
rather than other because I see
this new mix, metal-core, as 
being the future of metal. A nat
ural evolution of the form, rather 
than a forced mix of genres to sell 
albums to baggy-pant and back
wards hat-wearing mall-goers.
Listening to Wicked as I write 
this, I am astonished how the gui
tar riffs sound so much like an 
80s metal band, and yet they 
sound so natural and ... new 
again. Its almost like they re
invented the music I grew up with 
and adore. There is a new anger 
that this band possesses that 
mainstream metal has lacked (but 
to be fair bands like Slipknot are 
bringing back) that I love to hear. 
Not to take away from the mass 
manufactured music that corpo
rate suits call nu-metal (and 
blaspheme the name of Black 
Sabbath in the process), but this
See FORBID, page B9
O$B
By Debra Halpern
Recently there has been no focus to discuss in 
Entertainment. In fact, originally I was going to write an 
article on the new show Inside Schwartz, but that will have to 
wait, because Thursday they did not air a new episode. 
Instead I am going to bring you a bundle of Hollywood news, 
otherwise known as gossip.
The big news of the week is that Rush Limbaugh lost 100 
percent of his hearing in his left ear and 80 percent in his 
right. The bigger shocker is that it happened in four months. 
Limbaugh claimed that he could still do radio without his 
hearing. I find that hard to believe, but time will only tell.
Other big news comes from the country music world.
Garth Brooks will put out one more album, Scarecrow, 
inspired by The Wizard Of Oz. The album will not be fol
lowed by a tour, but instead by Brooks having some sort 
of television program for several weeks before 
Christmas. The first single from the album is called 
Wrapped Up In You. The album will also include duets 
with George Jones and Trisha Yearwood. Brooks will 
also be making appearances in a new Dr. Pepper com
mercial.
In the rap world, Eminem-founded group D12 made an 
appearance at Ethan Weismans Bar Mitzvah. Lucky Detroit 
kids! Although D12 did not perform, they met with all the 
guests.
In non-music news, Sharon Stone was released from the
hospital after she entered for a brain hemorrhage, which is 
usually deadly. After a two-hour procedure, and several 
days in the hospital, things are looking good for 
Pennsylvanias own Mrs. Stone.
Chris Rock, a great relief for the comedic world, per
formed at Jerry Seinfields benefit. Rock was the only of 
seven comedians to make bin Laden jokes. Other comedians 
that performed were Seinfield, Bill Cosby, Will Ferrell, Alan 
King, and Colin Owens. But the rest of the bill decided to 
make Britney Spears jokes and old age jokes among other 
things. I must tip my hat off to Rock for making the unfun
ny funny; I just hope more comedians will start to follow in 
his footsteps.
And that concludes this psychobabbles news minute.
How to make 
a super rad 
mix tape
by Emma Rehm
Copy Co-Editor
It has to be just right, or its a 
waste of time. No one wants to lis
ten to a mix tape that has a couple 
of really cruddy songs in crucial 
places. Yes, my friends, there is an 
art to making mix tapes. There are 
two basic techniques, but before I 
get into those, Id like to just make a 
comment about what makes mix 
tapes so good. It can be summed up 
in one equation, I think: Mix tape 
equals love. Really, mix tapes are 
better than mix CDs for a lot of rea
sons, but mainly because to make a 
tape, youve got to actually sit there 
in front of your stereo for the full 90 
minutes (because 90 minutes is bet
ter than 60, and anything longer 
than 90 minutes wears out too 
fast). Youve got to actually touch 
all of the albums you choose songs 
from, and frankly  its more per
sonal, which is really the whole 
point of a mix, isnt it?
So onward to the two techniques. 
The first one is very calculated and 
careful  you pick out all of the 
songs, write them down, write 
down the lengths of the songs, and 
rearrange them on paper until you 
have the perfect flow, and the tim
ing all figured out. Its very disrupt
ing to have a good song be cut off at 
the end of a tape. But if youre mak
ing a mix tape in a rush, or just 
arent so patient (neurotic?), the 
Spontaneous Mix is faster and a lot 
more fun. The rules are this: Think 
carefully about the first song on 
each side, taking as much time as 
necessary. But you have to choose 
the next song before the end of the 
song youre recording. It sounds 
fine, because most songs are at 
least a couple of minutes long. But 
the adrenaline starts pumping 
when youre making a punk mix 
that way, because youve got any
where from three minutes on down 
to thirty seconds to choose!
Beyond technique, though, there 
are still a number of considerations 
to make when refining a mix tape. 
There are a few rules: no more than 
two songs in a row by one artist. No 
giant blank spaces at the ends. Pay 
attention to the lyrics. Give it a title. 
(Some of the best titles of the mix 
tapes thatve been given to me: 
Rock on, Lego Partner; Casualties of 
the Boy Band Wars; Ok, so its not the 
sex mix, but ...; Installment #1: 
With Regard to the Political 
Situation; Queasy/Uneasy) The 
cover is very important; too much 
work goes into a good tape to just 
use the cover thats inside the case 
already. Thats kind of like buying a 
picture frame and just leaving the 
display picture in it, thats still got
See TAPE, page B9
Training Day Tops Box Office, followed by Bandits
LOS ANGELES (AP)  Movie-goers preferred violent 
crime to the comedic variety as Training Day remained the 
No. 1 weekend film, edging the bank-robbery comedy 
Bandits, which had a weak debut.
Training Day, starring Denzel Washington as a corrupt 
narcotics detective, was the top film for the second straight 
weekend with $13.55 million.
Bandits, featuring Bruce Willis, Billy Bob Thornton, and 
Cate Blanchett, was No. 2 with $13.46 million.
Corky Romano, a mob comedy starring Saturday Night Live 
regular Chris Kattan, opened in third place with $9.3 million. 
The weekends other wide-release debut, the martial-arts 
adventure Iron Monkey, was No. 6 with $6 million.
Distributor MGM had expected Bandits to open in the $20 
million range. The movie received generally positive 
reviews, though some critics complained its two-hour run
ning time was excessive. Bandits opened very wide, playing 
3,207 cinemas, averaging an anemic $4,198 a theater. 
Playing in 2,712 theaters, Training Day averaged $4,994 
after averaging a strong $8,315 in its opening weekend.
MGM blamed the weak showing of Bandits on nervousness 
over anthrax scares and government warnings of further ter
rorist attacks. The film was aimed at older adult audiences 
more likely to watch news coverage and stay home in times of 
crisis, said Robert Levin, MGMs head of distribution.
Bandits was especially hurt on opening day Friday, after a 
new anthrax case was reported involving an NBC news 
employee, Levin said.
People became really attentive to the news that day, 
Levin said. Everyone understands blizzards and earth
quakes. In L.A., you dont go to the movies after an earth
quake. You dont go to the movies during a blizzard in the 
Midwest. This was a self-imposed blizzard where a lot of 
people just didnt want to go out of the house.
Yet Training Day, also targeted for older adults, held up 
well. Jeff Goldstein, general sales manager for Training Day 
distributor Warner Brothers, said the movie did slightly less
business Friday than anticipated, presumably because of 
fallout from the attacks.
We got hurt a little bit, particularly in Eastern cities, 
because of the day's news, Goldstein said.
The poor showing of Bandits may have resulted from Training 
Day siphoning off male movie-goers rather than audiences stay
ing home because of terrorism, said Paul Dergarabedian, presi
dent of box-office tracker Exhibitor Relations.
It wouldnt just happen to their movie, Dergarabedian 
said. If there was a scare keeping people out of theaters, it 
would happen across-the-board.
Overall, Hollywood had a healthy weekend. The top 12 
films grossed $78.8 million, up 6.4 percent from the same 
weekend a year ago. The top 12 films were down 5 percent 
compared with last weekend, though.
David Lynchs Mulholland Drive, a dark tale of love and 
obsession in Hollywood, had a solid opening in limited 
release. Mulholland Drive grossed $708,000 in 68 theaters 
for a strong $10,412 average. The movie expands to about 
200 theaters next weekend.
My First Mister, a drama starring Albert Brooks and 
Leelee Sobieski, had a so-so debut in limited release, gross
ing $105,000 in 33 theaters for a $3,182 average.
Estimated ticket sales for Friday through Sunday at North 
American theaters, according to Exhibitor Relations Co. Inc. 
Final figures are to be released Monday.
1. Training Day, $13.55 million.
2. Bandits, $13.46 million.
3. Corky Romano, $9.3 million.
4. Serendipity, $9 million.
5. Dont Say a Word, $6.8 million.
6. Iron Monkey, $6 million.
7. Zoolander, $5.1 million.
8. Joy Ride, $4.9 million.
9. MaxKeebles Big Move, $4 million.
10. Hearts in Atlantis, $2.8 million.
Lumumba makes heart ache for ideal 
world that will probably never exist
by Michael Gibbons
Staffwriter
Now more than ever, international affairs and 
world politics are a concern for the American 
community. Suddenly we are scared and con
fused by what is happening and unsure who our 
enemies are. In our grief it is easy to forget the 
stories of others  other countries who were vic
tims like we are today. As much as we like to jus
tify our actions, the US is also guilty of unfair 
intervention  a recent example is the former 
Belgian colony of Congo.
Lumumba chronicles the life and death of 
Patrice Lumumba, who became the first Prime 
Minister of a newly liberated Congo in 1960. 
He becomes the leader of an effort to unify 
Africa in the enormous struggle of freeing 
Congo from Belgian influence, and for this, he 
picks up many enemies.
Like so many other fledgling countries of the 
20th Century, the ideological and political 
clash between military and state as well as 
communism and democracy makes the 
Congos independence infinitely more compli
cated. Not surprisingly, the political confusion 
of Lumumba is made worse by the intervention 
of other countries  Belgium, Russia, and the 
United States. The film presents both the 
myth and the man of Lumumba  he starts as 
a beer salesman, only to rapidly rise to power 
in a volatile setting. Lumumba has a talent 
with people, but his high profile and unortho
dox ideas make him the. scapegoat for troubled 
times.
It is hard to go into much more detail about 
such complex political maneuvering  the film 
doesnt simplify the situation for the sake of an 
easy narrative. Director (and former Minister 
of Culture for Haiti) Raoul Peck gives 
Lumumba an intelligent, well-rounded sensi
bility. I was all too oblivious that Lumumba 
even existed before hearing about this film, but 
I left the theater feeling informed. I actually 
would have appreciated a little more insight 
into what motivated Lumumba  why did he 
believe what he believed, to the point that he 
was willing to die for it? Nonetheless, his mar
tyrdom frames the movies examination of the 
ideas, decisions, and morals (or lack thereof) 
that go into politics.
What brings the movie to life, however, is the 
performance of Eriq Ebouaney, who plays the 
films title character. Watching Ebouaney, its 
easy to see how Lumumba had such a powerful 
and lasting effect on the people  he embodies 
moral conviction, human sensibility, and the 
qualities of an inspiring leader. In presenting 
Lumumba as a hero, its impossible not to make 
a political statement, but Lumumba respects the 
viewers intelligence and is subtle in its message. 
Im in no position to judge the real Patrice 
Lumumba, but the man of Lumumba makes your 
heart ache for an ideal world that well probably 
never have.
FINAL GRADE: B
1i

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 15, 2001
INSURANCETRUSTS
PRESENTS ASPECIAL ADVANCE SCREENING
Kevin KLINESCOTT THOMAS
Hayden CHRISTENSEN 
Jena MALONE 
Mary STEENBURGEN
HI HUB w
AS A
HOUSE
Seen from a distance, 
it's perfect.
MOSERUIEOU RUATUEFMER 
U?TU TAE CLETA 
TOD CNOCMRE.
ESEO MF NUA OTIE MROLU.
Aside from our name, we've always been in favor of making things simple.
So contact us for smart, easy investment techniques to help you reach your financial goals.
TIAA-CREF.org or call 1.800.842.2776
FREE MOVIE POSTERS
__. ~ __Checkout Pick up FREE passes atly___ CINEMAX.com University Center Info Desk
9:00 PM for movjeSj games
Mconomy Auditorium anc* Pr*zes! presented by
AB FILMS
HOGAMi
Managing money for people
with other things to think about.*
RETIREMENTMUTUAL FUNDS ! COLLEGE SAVINGSINVESTMENT MANAGEMENT
TIAA-CREF individual and Institutional Services. !rxand Teachers Personal investors Services. Inc.. distribute iecuriM* products  2001 Teachers insurance and Annuity Asssewtion-College Rtirefnht Equities Fund fTIAA-CREB, New York, MY, C-8/20
Music selection, organization, and 
cover reveal effort put into a mix tape
TAPE, from page B8 
the dimensions of the frame on it, 
and where it was made, and some 
random woman flinging her hair in 
the sun. No good. Its important to 
have a creative cover, or at least 
something that you made, even if 
its just writing the track list on a 
piece of construction paper with a 
sticker on it. That counts.
Probably the most important part 
of a mix tape, though, isnt the 
technique or the cover, but the tone 
or theme. Foi the most part, I rec
ommend avo ding Bitter Breakup 
Mixes, because theyre just too trag
ic to listen to after the initial shock 
wears off. On he other hand, UltraSuper Happy] Fun Summer Punk 
Run-Around-Annoy ing-theNeighbors Mikes are good to have 
around, for multi-purpose use. 
Also, some scpgs are fairly reusable 
 just be careful not to put the 
same song t>n a second tape for 
somebody. Yes, I confess I have a 
file folder inlmy room with the song 
lists for all the tapes Ive made in 
the last feyf years. No duplicates! 
Which brings us to a song-by-song 
example ofan Exceptionally Good 
Mix.
It was a gift from a very dear 
friend, presented right around the 
time I graduated high school. It was 
the first mix tape hed ever made, 
which was cobl in and of itself, but 
it also has stickers and mazes on 
the inside. And its called Everyones 
Dead. Does This Mean Im King?
Side A
1. Schoo
2. Melt V 
English i
3. Voice of God [is Governs Out  Alice Cooper 
Jitb. You  Modern
ment]  Bad Religion
4. Fade into You - Mazzy Star
5. Half a World Away - REM 
(acoustic)
6. American Girl  Tom Petty
7. Sexy S  Belly
8. Modern Man  Bad Religion
9. Across the Sea  Weezer
10. Miserlou  Dick Dale and 
His Del-Tones
11. Angeles  Elliott Smith 
Side B:
1. I Dont Wanna Grow Up  
the Ramones (Tom Waits cover)
2. Dreams  the Cranberries
3. Wild Flowers  Tom Petty
4. Drive  REM (live)
5. Eep Opp Ork Ah-ah  the 
Violent Femmes (from Saturday 
Morning Cartoons)
6. Stranger than Fiction  Bad 
Religion
7. Telling Stories  Ida
8. Love is All Around  REM 
(The Troggs cover)
9. Gentleman Who Fell  Milla
10. Shambala  Beastie Boys 
(instrumental)
11. Its Not Unusual  Belly 
(Tom Jones cover)
This tape (forgivably) breaks a few 
rules  its a 74 minute tape, a lot 
of the bands on here are really well 
known, and there are a lot of songs by 
two artists. But the hugely redeeming 
qualities of the tape far outweigh any 
of those minimal offenses.
The key is the variety: The classic 
Tom Petty is balanced by the instru
mental Beastie Boys, the many REM 
songs are tempered (not that they 
really need tempering) by the fact 
that theyre live and acoustic ver
sions. But the best parts of the tape,
without question, are the transi
tions. Frankly, I usually skip the first 
song (Schools Out is just plain 
depressing when school isnt out at 
all), but its still a good song to start 
with  maybe even for that reason; 
if youre going to put on a question
able song, put it at a place thats easy 
to skip over. Bad Religions uppity 
anthem into Mazzy Stars haunting 
love song  thats just pure genius. 
The first side ends on a quiet note 
with Elliott Smith, and then the sec
ond side begins with the high ener
gy of the Ramones covering a Tom 
Waits song (which means its some
what complex and you dont know 
all the words thirty seconds into it). 
Sticking the song that the Jetsons 
performed when they had a rock 
band (does anyone else remember 
that episode?) in between two pret
ty serious songs on either side is 
good form, because avoiding the 
back-and-forth (of one silly song, 
then one serious song, then one silly 
song, on and on) is fun instead of 
disrupting. And ending the whole 
tape with a Tom Jones song (that 
normally makes me vomit on my 
shoes) covered by the illustrious 
Belly still makes me smile every sin
gle time I listen to it  and really, 
the true test of a good mix tape is 
whether it stands up to more than 
one listening. Or, in this case, sever
al years of listening.
The importance of a mix tape is 
not to be underestimated. They can 
serve as apologies, or declarations 
of love. Theyre pretty much the 
best gift ever, and it takes a certain 
kind of person to appreciate that. A 
good friend of mine draws the line 
clearly: A girl with no tape deck is 
no girl for me.
Candira album disappoints reviewer
God Forbid reveals future of metal genre
Jeremy Canceko/Art Staff
CANDIRIA, from page B8 
ton. A lot. Which is a shame, real
ly. I enjoyed the thick structure of 
each song; 300 Percent Density is a 
fitting title for this collection. But 
I repeat, the rap parts just dont 
work. To be fair, I think that 
almost all rap-metal sucks, but 
still I have high expectations 
when it comes to a band like this, 
especially one released on a metal
label.
Some of you readers might write 
in and say Im closed-minded, and 
I agree. It could be that Im missing 
out on the complete genius that 
everyone else seems to catch on to. 
What I can say is that Candiria has 
proven with this album that they 
know death metal intimately, and 
that they can play it fantastically. 
What I feel they can do to push
their sound further is to focus on 
one element of music they really 
love and work from that first. Or 
maybe Im not getting the whole 
picture and Im not the right per
son to review this album. So, Im 
giving the first person to email me 
with the name of any of Candirias 
previous albums the opportunity 
to submit a counterpoint to my 
review.
FORBID, from page B8
is truly something new. This is perhaps the biggest 
compliment I can give any band, because metal has so 
many sub-genres that even the most hardened critic 
would be inclined to say that there is nothing new 
under the sun. A simple counterexample to that 
notion is the trio of songs in the middle of the album: 
Determination Part 1, Part 2, and Go Your Own 
Way. Just listen to them, I cant describe how perfect 
they are. The single riff in the middle of Go Your
Own way is just beautiful, and to paraphrase anoth
er genius, it shows how far one can see while standing 
on the shoulders of giants.
Ending the album is A Reflection of the Past with 
its acoustic foreground and soaring electric back
ground, and then the closer, Dead Words on Deaf 
Ears. All I have left to say is that if you havent agreed 
with any of my past reviews of any albums, I can 
understand, but if you deny yourself this album you 
will miss out on the future of metal.

---------------------------------------------------

dlean@andrew.cmu.edu
Props to -www.TlteBendi.oxPi ups to ww\v.The;
A
h, fall. Its this time of year that a young persons fan. cies turn to thoughts of Comics. Yes, Comics, that 
perennial pursuit of young men and women, gayly fes
tooned with their favorite strips, march up to my door and 
demand to be let inside. Who am I to deny them? Comics 
Editor, thats who! Anyone who wants a piece of the action 
should email dwindlehop@cmu.edu and stop stalking me.- .|gyg|';j|
2-oo I * 
G>fl06Ni/J6
lift ( Heuu
DO you > 
SMeulitdwuge,m
Vo you 
SMellN) E-v/E 
GAS?
DO ^OU 
S(V\G,UU 
Asm RAX?
X Htsp 
Pi 6a2 
(YiASkJ.X N>\? 
A Gas 
WASfci 
fOOuJSO THATS WHAT IS 
SO GREAT ABOUT 
INFINITY...YOU SEE 
ITS REALLY OUST 
SO BIG THAT...pIHntUfie*
HE.CES90 Moo 
tAElL
Do you 
itHuu THE oON)\C PUAGoe7
Vo you >SMUU
"THEkUrJ6-MAN)
. V(dS? y
aSGr r6ET A 
6AS MAS?
E;EWHnu L
A 6 AS MASfc: 
WAITING JllT? J
Atf/ lMPRABlL*rr/i
Ka lTGGoO IaI 
UdnEUHr;WHFY
WILL BECOME TRUE.agneW - /A Dls6*AC*tf> 
>uJ poa/me.^ VI
TKe 
itHuu 
KTao Tp 
isCHuB 
G26o6 SN\tLL 
OE FEAR.
, \TSS=LF.
90 ijoo > 
i#CLH6uu 2iOlciOouOtO 
T-Ut0(3 A L-Y SdrBe7HPMcm
9^oO > 
mell 
Gd\lle\?
V\eAT OlO HIT Le 
Sfeeuo-eas'?
UHAT po\ MOi; MtPtO/
GKo -d9
OOrJ'T U)0c?
X uoa-ot 
A G AS
TslBadt 
so I MIGHT
FINALLY SET
LAID.' __The Iron Monkfish
[Nevada Colonybo va>T 1,00K.
rg* $\>K*ivg>^s?
f'tt VOOwl>e^t<5| 
vs^eTHWffc v3r st4ouM| 
re9r Gf^r >ur eU 
He Ar hzFomTf40Y
WHILE HEADING HOME'
I just loaded a couple hundred beers into the construct. And I drank them ali. Got a problem with that?
What the hell are you doing?f SIMS weR
 $8W-e-r .-\ ifxf\ Moet<veRTHf5 
U ^ ' ^Ajc ofjfl^i ; H' i&i ttreK  
Hi  Jh*
 j 'N*- vS Spider s Ju
TftT. 1 cv/iS5
fMV Sta
n^T-ctASS SHiPPlt'fcf... Bvr wHt> uld Suame 
w/a 7 wr RAvew'r 
ATTA^Kei? by THM 
IN red YeMS.
Heh. Drunk dorks.
ThelRentalSL=jEriendsiof<Rj
HairGirlby Ann Lewis
Enter HairMomHairGirl, come back! Is that what they teach you at 
this college? To ignore your poor mother? If only 
I was paying your tuition I would cut it off 
immediately. Everyone knows girls should stay 
home and take care of their mothers instead of 
gallavanting off to 'college. And you! What are 
you looking at? Well you know what? You don't 
love your mother enough, all of you! You're all 
just a bunch of ungrateful wretches!
La la la. I wonder what I'll do today'J
Welf, HairGirl look at you! I think you've gained weight.
And look at your hair! Do you even brush it?
r&rmi | can't believe your teeth. You
haven't been going to the L, C_v 
dentist have you? Well that's O i/^Sj 
j ok because all dentists are L^-
kC out to get nice people like
I us, those dirty bastards, and
don't get me started on your / 
idiot father... ^_/{__
faaaaa!!!/
' 11 1 "ft 1 **'1 *..* IT. \'KI .ErriMfctA
ifnUt.AV ......^
Well I don't 
hang out with 
losers like you 
guys. I'm out 
of here.
www.andrew.cmu.edu/~jslater/fence/www.andrew.cmu.edu/~jsiater/fence/jslater @andrew.cmu.edujslater @andreW.cmu.edu
Great news! The Fence is now online at 
www.andrew.cmu.edu/~jslater/fence/
What do you think you're doing?Really? Wow, I never thought youd 
have any faith in one of my projects.
I'm not creating a porn hub, this is 
for Fence archives and web comix links.
In my fantasies i'm known as the 
Backdoor Baron.
Alright, but just don't start having any 
fantasies about being the "Red Baron".,
.Usually you'd be right, but 
I think creating a 
> CMU-bascd porn hub is 
worth getting behind.
.Well I figured eveyone else 
who lives at the fence 
1 builds a shanty, so I 
should have one too.
Obviously you've missed 
the point of the 
internet entirely.
hat was unnecessary' 
and unwarranted.Even I have high hopes 
for this undertaking.
w^jft jH werlC
Bio THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 15, 2001

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 15, 2001Bn
by&m bf17(^0<Dfc0<aii"u3
nrHEKE'5 SOME PRET ry
INTENSE OTUSS EBAmmsw.
y*>* FAVORITE NEV 
SHOW ^ WHAT SHOW'S 
THAT?
YEAH, AND IT'S EVEN 'AFFECTIHC My FAVOflTf
NEW TV SHOW..
"THE CONTINUING 
''APVENTURES of MASAWKI, 
THE IMrtoKMl SAMWMI WHO C0MM/T5 HIRI-Ml 
ST m mr OF A HAT"1
;u ON LAST WEEKS EP150PE, BEFORE HE HinSSLF, HE TAPED h PICTURE
e OSAMA BIN LADEN
to his KIMONO!
77ie Phatmaster
http://phat.res.cmu.edu/phatmaster/mho cJr g.n.d3:ev7
Independently of von Neumann and others, I reinvented the concept 
of the cellular automaton.
CONTES m
l1+ pri?e.- 
NiirteiwJc 
C>aW P Cube i?
I was loath to publish the results, however, as I was afraid someone would scoop me on its commercial potential. Instead,
I published a "game" similar to 
Conway's "Life" and created a 
contest to make the fastest glider that preserved an 
arbitrary internal state, making sure I retained all rights to the entries.

ffi ^ D7T)/w
fffl-* 
<r-----------J
It didn't take long to realize its potential. After ten years of research funded by some piddling software I'd written,
I was able to produce a cellular 
model of physics which unified all of the laws, and a new kind of science was born._____________
Luckily, the Japanese schools 
were all on vacation, so millions of bored students 
did my work for me, collectively generating a spaceship capable 
of travelling the speed of 
light.
The model had numerous ramifications, the most important 
being that all quantities were 
quantized, implying the fallacy 
of "real" numbers and the non
isotropic nature of space.
I needed to patent the device, 
and to do so required a prototype. But upon its 
demonstration, an alien race was 
alerted to our presence via the 
warp signature, and our planet 
was instantly vaporized.
TfT/tttSwo'
rtAmvie ffwr Mve&JMQfou im cewflwitsefySQQ6TY au of US Sitf/S/ J
tm $SEK2L
m%s>
C16HT /<4KG6 1*6 
HOW! WMtlS
^5
PONT 5tiWN1$ Vi oNW KiM HO*) c&Ate Luna*?! id ?a< none to 
aeujfiuoy5!V ta r-------------
CoOKfjX
your weekly cheeky monkey
Ducks and monkeys do not get along. Why, 
just this morn I witnessed a duck and a monkey *
going at it with butterfly-knives! I stopped 
them immediately and lectured them on the f J
sanctity of life, human or otherwise. I think ^
they both walked away a little wiser, though the M
monkey kept hurling his feces at me as I strode 
off. Damn monkeys.
Still, the ducks and I have really bonded this time. I feel as if we ve finally come 
to an understanding. It is with this sort of feeling in mind that I leave you with 
the traditional duck leave-taking; May you be in heaven half an hour before the 
devil knows youre dead.
Keep your duck-related questions flowing in! Email dwindlehop@cmu.edu with 
your duck inquiries. May the legend never die!
W-RMCU Le8I$ HAH67Vr/^1*60/1///
grade DW edhble
''.forgot
rar.t
zrs@ ay\dcew-\dobentertainment
ofofo) b3Ss.teKevin (P
thugbot, check out now-they're 
my new kicks ck0n7 I *
dossier literary
r ewe ber rollei-biades 'are 54-ill not I esrrn
.--j1 especially 
. roilerblads) Ao'S3uised as 
I IYB Pla^'rv'LI basketball 
[ \___^yShoes*
now -they're skates/ r
now -they're skates! rTHE TARTAN is looking for a few good men (and 
women). Want to get paid to be the Arts & Living, 
Entertainment, or Dossier Literary Editor? Email tartan@andrew.cmu.edu or call x8-2111 if interested.Smallcracki h +he f*veentTHE TARTAN#lts  joke.inimers o-e s+iil hello. X-Tree*n,d00d|/htt-p: //-Hrw^bcrh ne* / bo-f
v

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 15, 2001
Over THE AERNE
by Michael Fry & T. LewisN0 OFe99 CD8B
IT LOOKS LIKE THERE ARENT ANY RULES AT ALL.I
 WELL, IM PRETTY SURE YOU CANT PLAY WITH A SEVERED UMB.
WHAT THE HECK DC YOU CALL THAT?
NO...APPARENTLY YOU CANOKAY, I'M RE-ENTERING 
MY ACCOUNT INFORM
ATION. ..HEY, GUESS 
WHAT? THAT DIDN'T 
WORK EITHER.
THAT MEANS THE 
PROBLEM IS IN YOUR 
E-MAIL SERVICE.
CAN YOU GRASP THAT 
CONCEPT?
LOOK, I HAVE THREE 
COMPUTERS IN THE 
HOUSE. ALL THREE 
SIMULTANEOUSLY LOST 
E-MAIL BUT NOT WEB 
FUNCTION.,___'POOTBALL1:
...FOOTBALL IS IN FACT A COMPLEX CHESS GAME BETWEEN TWO DISCIPLINED OPPOSING FORCES RESULTING
HOLD ON/mo PAGGGALTHOUGH IT MAY APPEAR TO BE AN EXERCISE IN RANDOM HEAD-BUTTING UNTIL EVERYONE LOSES CONSCIOUSNESS....
r OKAY, WERE READY TO PLAY SOME FOOTBALL'
OOOU
OOOt!
OOOU/
, f OOOU
...RANDOM HEADOOOU BUTTING UNTIL EVERYONE LOSES CONSCIOUSNESS? \
I NEED A BRILLIANT 
EMPLOYEE TO BE MY 
ASSISTANT MANAGER
THAT'S
THE
FIRST
NICE
THING
THAT'S WHY I 
CAME TO YOU
YOUR JOB 
IS TO 
CLONE ME.
EACH FOOTE-ALL PLAYER HAS HIS OWN JOB TO DO ON THE FIELD...THIS IS A TEAM SPORT...
,../K> POSITION IS THE MOST IMPORTANT!...UNITED YOU $7>!/W>/DlVlDED YOU FALL/
OKAY, WHO WANTS TO BE THE QUARTERBACK?
OUR POINTY-HAIRED 
BOSS ASKED ME TO 
CLONE HIM.
WHAT IF HIS 
CLONE HAS NO 
SOUL?
CAN YOU  REMEMBERyigoo it now?
THIS IS CALLED A V THATS TOO 1 7W/MT DIAGRAMS f COMPUCA TED/ WHERE EACH PLAYER ' TRYING TO SHOULD GO AND WHATREMEMBER IT THEY SHOULD DO.,. MAKES MY j.__ X MIND ITCH/ j
THAT 
IS SO 
WRONG
YES, THE TECHNOLOGY 
TO CLONE YOU EXISTS 
BUT ITS ILLEGAL TO 
CLONE HUMANS.
IF THE COPS FIND 
OUT, WE CAN FRAME 
MY CLONE FOR THE 
CRIME.
WHY? HE'D 
DO THE 
SAME THING 
TO ME!
ALLOWME.ARE YOU KIDDING? THANKS/SK-VCM
*K-T'
( I DONT ^ 
HANT IT//
REMEMBER ITS JUST A GAME, LETS ALL HAVE FUN...
YAHHHHH/wow/ / T00...THAT WAS /  PUN/ ( FUN,
YOU'LL EITHER CREATE 
A SOULLESS ABOMIN
ATION OR, IF THE 
CLONE IS NORMAL,
YOU WILL HAVE SHOWN 
THAT SOULS ARE 
| f IRRELECK VANT. Jill
WHAT IF THE ORIGINAL 
IS ALREADY A SOULLESS 
ABOMINATION?
MY BOSS ASKED ME 
TO CLONE HIM. IS 
THAT ETHICAL?
HIKE/
YOU CAN BORROW 
MY CLONER. IT'S 
IN THE
TRUCK, jfll
DONT THEY SACRIFICE SPEED FOR SIZE?
SOME OF THOSE LINEMEN MUST WEIGH OVER 500 k LBS.
THEYALLWEIGHOVER500LBS.
CLONING THE BOSSWE HEARD 
IT MIGHT 
HURT..
MAY I 
PUSH THE 
BUTTON?WILL
THIS
HURT?
I HOPE SO
Monty by Jim Meddick
SkY, I REAP A FUNNY XKE IN THE P/W TODAYA GUY WALKS INTO A STOCKING QU HIS HEAD AMD A WEAPON AND ASKS THE BARTENDERI* u------------^3%---------------  'I  Ira
UtfFORTUNkTELY,
ePhALSO W'DBLY ktsiONMM FOfc THEIR 
^ STUPIDITYUN\...C>K... >NEVER MINDTHAT WASN'T 
A>KE.THAT WAS TUE Asecur j 1.BLOTTER./
I KNOW YOU'RE DEPRESSED,wtpoNt worry:., im a 
DONKEY AND MONKEYS ARE WIDELY mom FOR THEIR 
SPONTANEOUS HllAfcllY...
kND, AS LUCK WOULD IT, I TU INK TODAYS THE DAY W PROZAQ, PRESCRIPTION ROMS OUT
T^tET > TWttTtshht
^ TWEET...
WELL. ft)RTUNATLY TUERAS ALWAYS 
THE 01 STANDBY-..
I TT------------
TUWS THE ONE PROBLEM. WOH BUYING FROM. A WHOLESALE 
CLUB -1 GET SUCH A LAPSE QUANTITY, I NEVER THINK 
AHEAD TO RESTOCK-- ,
OHjWAN.... WHAT ARE 
THE ODS OF THIS?'-AREYOO \ UWL-TN\ FEELING STlll [A $IT 6ETT&R... 
FEELIN6 ;N MAYE JUST A TAP
byPeynnybs lyvaiGorvMGk Sch
Hu\s.rmKeiwF1bbb
> J// ' UsS*^'
*2 2001 Jim Meddick/Dist. by NEA, jna
HA? SEE THAT.r YOU1 RE 
SMILING r I TO YOVJ YOU 
v WEREN'T DEPRESS'/
LOCO'S SORT Of 
AONE-WOtW %ElECTRO SHOCK 4 THERAPY V TREATMENT ^CENTER...
DEPRESSED?' WUAPtA LOAPA 
YOU'RE HOT DEPRESSED
YOU'RE JUST FEIGNING DEPRESSION TO GET OUT , OF OUR DATE NIGHT/-'-'
SPEAKIU6 OP WHICH/THAT REMINDS ME, I'VE GOT T SETHONVETO IRON A ^ PILLOWCASE... ;--------"
PASSIONA IT'S UKE I'M IN A WUH^WUATS / BLEAK, CONVOLUTE? 
THAT LIKE? 7 tAAlE, WTH NO EX\T, Sr^Z^V NO SOLUTIONS...
AND CAUSE OF W ANGUISH 
THERE'S HO OWE 
mo CAN BEAR TD BEAROUND
W AW ICE ISjVlEXT TIME AW A"BLEAK MUEW TRY A "BRAIN BOGG.LIN CROSSWORD FUTILE." ^ACTAPHOR INSTEAD-----'
NOW CHEER UR YOU HTTLE WUSSCHEEfc V)P.

---------------------------------------------------

sfrena
ROBERT JAMES MARK DELROY 
REOFORO GANDOLFINI RFFALO and LINDO
I am making a difference
^Vcre all hurr awrsaddcned bv rhe terrible tragedies.1$  '
w . Biit irs important ro do something. To help out. I'm
,Uomii to donate blood because I know it will help 
save lives. I don't mind waiting in line because its 
Htegg. important. This is where I want to be. With other
people who want to help too."
The American Red Cross is profoundly grateful to 
all blood donors everywhere, every day. We are espe
cially proud of your commitment to help save a life 
in t|ie dmsweeks and months ahead. We could not 
save lives iu it limit von.
THE LAST CASTLE
I UNOES 17 REQUIRES ACCOMPANYING 
I PARENT OR ADULT GUARDIAN ^ 
a n q u a q endVi oie neemutsasSBONOIMVjyiMDHCSl&^Swww.tiieiastcastle.Gominilimt I>RrAiVlW)RKS111 LUniL gf;rBnH9DSIRan3)8riiS*mS0lsU1KNUC tW&@>2CC! OfEAMWCRS uc
I COMING SOON TO A THEATRE WEAR YOU!
GATEWAY CLIPPER FLEET
OPEN FRIDAY THRU SUNDAY
SEPTEMBER 28 THRU OCTOBER 7
OPEN THURSDAY THRU SUNDAY
OCTOBER 1 1 THRU 28 
PLUS TUESDAY, OCTOBER 30 
AND WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31
GATES OPEN AT 6:30 PM. BOAT DOES NOT SAIL.
PITTSBURGH'S #1 
HALLOWEEN ADVENTURE! 
DOCKED AT STATION SQUARE 
NIGHTMARE HOTLINE 412-355-7944
nw 5wea vISCeNRpE ebNbNb DgnY1UKav SweHwDN 
fJiMo&urstt M ***** tf HA*
N1K1gwD N*eKau $wS8 i $w0D1w0D Hg11N3eanY 
000bnK1u0K5SECHHuabSwU
Promote Trips 
at Carnegie Meilon 
T. Earn Cash and Go Free
Coil for details!!! ww.stetravel.com
WHY?
The
Revisionist
http://www.codoh.org
Your single source for lips on paying back your student loan easily, quickly, painlessly and responsibly. 
Plus everything else you need to make real-life decisions in the real world.
JPfJTTAAJL MJLMldrXJnL
( n atine Act w.v to Utucatimi
Please call 1-800-GIVE LIFE
to schedule your lifesaving appointment to give blood.+
 American Red Cross
Together, we can save a life
Acapulco Cancn Jamaica Bahamas ; florida
BERMAN CHIROPRACTIC OFFICE
v . 128 N. Craig Street
(Park Plaza Bldg. between CMU and PITT)
HEADACHES, STRESS, NECK PAIN, BACK PAIN, 
OR JUST WANT BETTER HEALTH??
Berman Chiropractic has been serving the CMU and PITT communities 
for the past .-years.
Please Call For an Appointment... TodayII 
687-1112
PROVIDERS FOR AON SELECT BC/BS, HEALTH AMERICA, UPMC 
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
Got ISIC?
Accepted at over 17,000 
locations worldwide. 
Great Benefits at 
home and abroad!
ISIC offers you the world at a discount!
movies * museums * activities * attractions
- airfare * e-mail * phone calls * restaurants
Receive a free ISIC T-shirt with the purchase 
of your ISIC (while supplies last)!
Apnea's Lead Ir. Stucan! Travet
www.counciltravel.com
118 Meyran Ave - Oakland 
683-1881
1-800-2COUNCIL

---------------------------------------------------

Calendar
15 October 2001 THE TARTAN
The symphony holds excitement for all
Its one of Pittsburghs most forgotten-about jewels. A symphony 
that newspapers around the world have called one of the planets 
best, and a conductor, Mariss Jansons, that is undeniably one of 
the greatest alive today. Each year this amazing organization 
brings some of the finest performers and special guests to Heinz 
Hall, the beautiful home of the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra.
So get out and buy a ticket for the symphony. If you want to save 
a few bucks, head over to Heinz an hour or so befroe the show 
begins for cheaper tickets.
A few upcoming concerts at Heinz Hall...
Beethoven & Rachmaninoff Conducted by: Andr Previn
Friday, October 19, 2001 8 PM
Saturday, October 20, 2001 8 PM
Sunday, October 21, 2001 2:30 PM
featuring Hlne Grimaud on piano
Ludwig van Beethoven Concerto No. 4 in G Major for Piano and Orchestra, Opus 58 
Sergei Rachmaninoff Symphony No. 2 in E minor, Opus 27
Bach, Brahms & Zukerman Conducted by: Pinchas Zukerman
Friday, November 2, 2001 8 PM
Saturday, November 3, 2001 8 PM
Sunday, November 4, 2001 2:30 PM
featuring Pinchas Zukerman on violin and viola
Johann Sebastian Bach Brandenburg Concerto No. 3 in G Major, BWV 1048
Igor Stravinsky Suite from Pulcinella
Johannes Brahms Serenade No. 2 in A Major, Opus 16
Johannes Brahms Sextet No. 1 in B-flat Major, Opus 18
Johann Sebastian Bach Concerto No. 1 in D minor for Piano and String Orchestra
Page B14
monday. 10/15
@pgh. caf. Rangos BallroomUniversity 
Center, 3 pm to 7 pm. @pgh.cafe includes 
software, engineering, biotech, hardware, IT 
consulting, multimedia, robotics, and other 
technology firms based in the Pittsburgh 
region that are looking for qualified individu
als to fuel their growth in the new economy. 
For more information, please see 
http://www. tc-p. com/careers/pgh_cafe. html.
Profit From a Non-Profit. Dowd Room, 
4:30 pm to 6 pm. subtitled, Working in the 
non-profit sector. Join them as a panel of 
representatives from local non-profit organi
zations share what it is like to work in the non
profit sector, what you can gain from working 
or volunteering at a community agency, and 
how you can apply your knowledge and expe
riences to the field. For more information, 
please call x8-2064.
Takacs Quartet with Robert Pinsky, 
Poet. 8 pm, Carnegie Music Hall, 4400 
Forbes Avenue, Oakland. The Pittsburgh 
Chamber Music Society presents the 
acclaimed Takacs Quartet with special guest 
Robert Pinsky (US Poet Laureate 1997-2000) 
in a unique collaboration of music and spoken 
word entitled All the World for Love. 
Throughout the performace of pieces by
Janacek, Barber, and Britten. Pinsky will read ten 
poems that evoke the range of human love 
through the centuries. For tickets or more infor
mation, please call (412)-624-4129.
Wednesday, 10/17
Ballroom Dancing. A free live band and 
dance at Rangos Ballroom with the CMU Music 
Departments Jazz Ensemble. The dance aims to 
collect money towards American Red Cross 
Relief Fund and United Way September 11 Fund. 
Please call Junlei Li at x8-5707 for more infor
mation.
Mobot and MoboJoust Open House. 6
pm in Wean Hall 5409. Members of the Mobot 
Committee and past participants will be there to 
answer questions, discuss the rules, and present 
some possible starting points for the first time 
participants. For more information, call 
Catherine on x8-8525.
hursday, 10/18
Peters Cellar Coffee House. 7:30 pm to 
9:30 pm. Jeff Trish will perform original 
Christian music. Find them at Allbright 
Community United Methodist on the corner of 
Centre and south Graham Streets in Shadyside. 
For more information call (412)-682-7758.
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra. 8
pm, Heinz Hall. The symphony will perform 
a program including the music of Beethoven 
and Rachmaninoff. Included in the program 
will be Ludwig van Beethovens Concerto 
Number 4 in G Major for Piano and Orchesti'a, 
Opus 58, and Sergei Rachmaninoffs 
Symphnony Number 2inE minor, Opus 27. 
The evenings performance will be conducted 
by Andr Previn and will feature Helene 
Grimaud on the piano. For more informa
tion, call (412)-392-4900.
IHI bunnies bunbun and kittky like to play
official voice of your curfew
It's cheese-cuin-spread.
YOKAre Socialst meetings 
social gatherings?
JUST A STEEL TOWN GIRL ON A SAT
URDAY NIGHT
PETA sucks, you 
hippie f**cks
Why aren't you f**cking fighting for 
the glory of Carnegie?
I CAN KEEP MY LEGS SPREAD OPEN.
J. Ramen, my next door neighbour
Let's get opti
mized
HES A MAN-EATER. I MEAN 
AN ANT EATER.
HA HA HA HA HA. DONT ASK ANY EMBARRASING QUESTIONS.
a flyer on 
whats wrong 
with animals
8Brr( idutes
Nobody sleeps with 
my grandmother.
bunbun and kitty: lovers for
ever
He makes both kinds of sounds: country and 
western
Hey guys, Lanye got me 
again. Look, fake things!
SLIDES RIGHT IN 
THERE... JUST LIKE A 
HOGG INTO YOUR KEIS
TER
Courteso yCfaar ngit ua
weart hoo ldsintg oeep tvn ghlnf
The last 
thing I need 
is a Siamese 
girlfriend.
Vox Populi is a forum open to the entire campus community!.To siihmir a vox, simply email it to uruin@stiilrao.cmu.eiiu. send it to The 
Tartan, Uniwrsity Center, Box i7 via campus mail. The comments in 
this box do not reflect the views of The Tartan or WMm in gener
al. It is basically a. bunch of gibberish, arid if anything Sounds remote
ly teal 01 interesting, then youre reading way too much into ir. You r 
knowwhati Ifyoure reading this then you should buy a book[sug
gest something by Charles Dickens. Thatll keep you real busy...;}
Saturday. 10/20
Chitrangada. 5 pm, Kelly-Strayhorn 
Community Performing Arts Center, Penn 
and Highland Avenues. Indian classical 
dance by Nobel Laureate poet Rabindranath 
Tagore based on an episode from the epic 
Mahabharata. Call (412)-394-3353 for info.
Sunday. 10/21
Chitrangada. 5 pm, Kelly-Strayhorn 
Community Performing Arts Center, Penn 
and Highland Avenues. Indian classical 
dance by Nobel Laureate poet Rabindranath 
Tagore based on an episode from the epic 
Mahabharata. Call (412)-394-3353 for info.
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra.
2:30 pm, Heinz Hall. The symphony will per
form a program including the music of 
Beethoven and Rachmaninoff. Included in 
the program will be Ludwig van Beethovens 
Concerto Number 4 in G Major for Piano and 
Orchestra, Opus 58, and Sergei 
Rachmaninoffs Symphnony Number 2inE 
minor, Opus 27. The evenings performance 
will be conducted by Andr Previn and will 
feature Hlene Grimaud on the piano. For 
more information, call (412)-392-4900.
The Tartan is looking for a 
qualified student to edit the 
Entertainment section.
If youre interested, contact us 
at tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.
THE TARTAN
Do you have an event you 
would like to publicize in 
The Tartan Calendar? Its 
free!
Send information to 
tartan@andrew. emu. edu.
