WILL BE HELD IN 
UNION, SAT. NIGHT
STUDENT FRIENDSHIP 
DRIVE STARTS TODAY 
BUY A TAG!
VOL. XVII. NO. 24CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, MARCH 14, 1923
INDUSTRIALIST 
WILL SPEAK AT 
GEN. ASSEMBLY
Mr. Vauclain, President of 
Baldwin Locomotive Works 
to Deliver Principal Address 
at Todays Assembly
TO SING NEW SONGS
BAND NEEDS MORE KEN v 
WHO CAN PLAY A CORNET; v 
CHANCE TO EARN POINTS *
*> The Band needs a few more * 
% cornet players to strengthen this * 
!- section. Campus Week is com*:* ing, so it is necessary to have a v 
v few more men before that time, v
* If there is any student who can * 
iplay a cornet, we want you to *!
report at Band Rehearsals this v 
> Thursday night and show your v 
.? college spirit.
* *
SCIENCE STAG 
IN UNION THIS 
SATURDAY NITE
The program at the General Assem
bly this morning will be one of the 
most interesting and varied ones pre
sented lately.
The Black Imps will open the As
sembly at, 11:45 and will play for 
about fifteen minutes. You know the 
Imps!
Following this, Mr. Samuel Vau
clain, president of the Baldwin Loco
motive. Works, will speak on How to 
Work and Progress.
In the opinion of many local busi
ness men who know him, Mr. Vauclain 
is one of the most capable industrial 
leaders of the present day. He is ac
credited with the responsibility for the 
growth of the Baldwin Company to 
its present capacity, through his serv
ice as superintendent for many years, 
and later as Vice president.
I worked with Mr. Vauclain dur
ing the war, said a local man, "and 
I tell you he was a marvel. While 
many of us were standing around won
dering what to do, Sam Vauclain 
went ahead and did it. Whenever any
one failed to solve a problem, it was 
passed on to Mr. Vauclain, but it 
went no further. He showed the most 
remarkable capacity for solving what
ever wras put up to him. He is a 
creator, instinctively, and a builderup, and for a monument of his cre
ative and business ability, one needs 
to only consider the Baldwin Locomo
tive Works.
We can expect a fine talk from Mr. 
Vauclain, for men who know their 
stuff are always interesting, and say 
what they have to say in a concise 
manner.
Pat Murphy and Jack Gumbert of 
the Glee Club will give a couple of 
the new songs which will appear in 
the Carnegie Song Book.
Morgan P. Noyes, Yale 17, will give 
(Continued on Page Two.)
STUDENT COUNCIL 
TO BE REORGANIZED
Student Activities Board and.
Council Meet Thursday 
to Discuss Plans
The Reorganization Committee of 
the Student Council presents the fol
lowing summary of the reorganization 
of the iStudeut Council and the Stu
dent Activities Board. The commit
tee invites criticisms of and sugges
tions for changes and addition to the 
new plan. Such suggestions should be 
turned into the post office in care of 
the secretary of the Student Council.
Following is the plan:
The. new organization to be called 
the Student Council of the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology, and to con
sist of the following representatives: 
President of the Student Council, four 
presidents of the Senates, four Senior 
; Presidents, Vice President of the Col
lege of Fine Arts Senate (a girl), one j member of the Mens Athletic Asso; ciaiion, one member of: the Womens 
I Athletic Association, three Senior repj resentatives, one Student Council 
; treasurer, one Student, Council secre
tary, four senate treasurers (repre
sentatives from the Junior Class), 
three assistant secretaries, non-vot
ing, two iSophomore presidents, nonvoting.
The senate treasurers are to be 
elected at the end of the year from 
the Soph, classes, one from each col
lege, by the members of the Soph, 
class. They will automatically be
come the assistant treasurers of the 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Two Hundred Eighty 
Couples at Soph Hop
Snappy Entertainment Given 
By Art Students
About two hundred and eighty cou
ples attended the Soph. Hop in the 
Arts Foyer last Friday night. The 
Foyer presented a brilliant blaze of 
color; the gowns of the women har
monizing well with the palm' and-spennant bedecked alcoves and walls. 
Both ends of the Foyer were set aside 
as lounging and smoking places. Re
freshments were served in the exhibi
tion room.
The Mason-Dixon Orchestra started 
at nine and continued until twelve. 
The dancers then proceeded to the 
Little Theater where Harry Hamilton 
had a short, snappy entertainment ar
ranged. Bess Johnson and Harry 
Mervis started the fun with their 
humorous sketch entitled Back to 
Nature. After the uproar of .applause 
had died down sufficiently to allow the 
continuance of the program Obie 
Newman and Doc Taylor sang a few 
Southern selections and then proceed
ed to throw the audience into/spasms 
of laughter with their interpretation 
of slow motion movies. This ended 
the theatrical part of the program. 
The audience then proceeded to the 
Foyer again where dancing continued 
until 1 a. m.
Too much credit cannot be given 
the committee for their work in, mak
ing this one of the best Soph Hops 
in Carnegie history. Edmund G. Good 
was chairman and directed the ef
forts of the following assistants: Miss 
Zabelle K. Davis, Miss Rose M. Morin, 
Clifford A. Zimm, P. Hoffer Sload, 
Harry Hamilton, Harry A. Smith.
The patrons and patronesses were: 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Musical Clubs Hold Dance 
Fri.; Home Concert Apr. 13
Two more musical club events were 
announced last Week; a dance to be 
held Friday, March 16 in the Union, 
and the annual Home Concert to be 
givun April 13 in the Carnegie Music 
Hall, followed by a dance in . the 
Union/
Friday nights dance will be a nov
elty affair along the lines of the first 
dance given early in the year. Spe
cialties will be offered by Bill Reilly 
and Web Cunningham who will offer 
the same program given on the reg
ular musical club trips which were 
recently made. Murphy and Blackmore in a vocal solo and cello obli
gato will Introduce Mathew Freys 
Always Mine which will appear in 
the new Carnegie Song Book.
The Collegiate Imps with Ed Miller 
at the Traps and Paul Putt on the 
Tuba will provide music.
The Musical Club dances have been 
the keenest social. affairs this winter 
and a second orchestra is being held 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Girls Glee Club to Give 
Home Concert on March 22
The Girls Glee Club will give its 
annual home concert Thursday even
ing, March 22, at the Carnegie Lec
ture Hall at 8 p. in. The program this 
year promises many good and unusual 
features. , The girls are holding to the 
old adage that variety is the spice 
of life. The Stringers have an im
portant place on the program and 
their music will bring you out of the 
depths if nothing else will. And then 
to add the finishing touches the Mens 
Glee Club will be there to give a 
group of songs. Immediately after 
the concert there will be a dance in 
the Union with music furnished by 
the Collegiate Eight.
The club is composed of about 50 
girls from both Arts and Margaret 
Morrison. The girls have already 
given a concert at the Little Theater 
and sung at an afternoon affair for 
Miss Brown. Concerts are scheduled 
for Sewickley, Homewood and Clairton during the month of April. Mr. 
Ruhl, the director, has done so much 
and the girls have practiced so faith
fully that this concert promises to be 
the best ever given, so dont miss it. 
Remember the dateThursday, March 
22Carnegie Lecture Hall.
Helen McCrum Elected to 
Student Activities Board
The Senior Class of Margaret Mor
rison College held| a meeting last 
Thursday and elected Helen McCrum 
as representative to the Student Ac
tivities Board to fill the vacancy left 
by the resignation of Priscilla Allison.
The report of the Senior Room com
mittee was also received. A new 
room has been fitted up for the 
Seniors with new decorations and 
trimmings under the supervision of 
Miss Moore who is matron.
Discussion of the date for the 
Senior Ball followed but no definite 
action was taken.
Henderson Elected President 
Of Science Class of 1912
The 1912 Applied Science Class got 
together at the Fort Pitt Hotel, Sat
urday evening, March 3, and had a 
very, enjoyable time. There were 
about 25 present, quite a few of the 
fellows coming some distance to take 
part in the affair. David Henderson, 
the first president of the class was 
elected permanent president, and it 
was decided to hold these affairs once 
a year the first Saturday''in February. 
Those present were Boyd, Brown, 
Bryan, Buente Cogswell, Collman, 
Henderson, Horelick, Kaul, Lamoree, 
McKee,' Merten, Patterson, Mike 
Phillips, R. F. Phillips, Raisig, Rex 
Schambach, Shenefelt, Stearns, Wal
ker, Bigelow, Holiday, Laboon and 
Hixenbaugh found at last moment 
they were unable to be there.
Faculty to Compete With 
Students in Attempting to 
Win Prize For Best Stunt 
at Annual Affair
TAU BETAS TO ELECT
On Saturday evening at S oclock, 
the students from the College of En
gineering will hold the annual Science 
stag smoker. From all indications 
this will be the best Science stag 
held, and anyone who is not there 
will certainly regret it.
Tags were placed on sale last week 
and they will be sold until Friday. 
Positively no one will be admitted 
Saturday night unless he has a tag. 
Not many tags have been sold com
pared to the number of students en
rolled in the College of Engineering, 
so it is up to every Science man to 
buy his ticket and not say: I am
going to buy one, or I promised 
some one, but to actually pay 35 
cents for one. The committee is 
working hard to make this event a 
success, and the least a student can 
do is to buy a tag.
Dean Mott, Coach Paul Beeler and 
Mr. Kirkpatrick will give short talks 
to the men on different phases of col
lege activities. Besides the four class 
stunts, the faculty is going to put on 
a stunt. This is something new and 
much credit is due them for showing 
so much interest in the Science stag. 
The Freshmen have been working on 
their stunt and it is rumored that 
they are going to surprise the upper 
classes by winning the first prize.
The ballots from the popularity 
contest were counted last week and 
not all the students have voted. Those 
who have not done so should cut out 
the ballot in todays issue and cast, 
their vote. The committee is desirous 
of having every one vote before they 
announce the winners.
The Tau Beta PI, honorary frater
nity, is busy making its selections 
this week and the men from the Ju
nior class who are to bo honored will 
be announced Saturday night. Pro
fessor Trinlcs will give a short talk 
for Tau Beta PI before the elections 
are announced. This year the com
mittee has arranged to feed the stu
dents In the mens Commons so that 
the usual congestion and rush for the 
eats will be avoided.
HELP SOPHS! HELP PLEBES 
THE TARTAN NEEDS MEN
FOR ADVERTISING STAFF
! Excepting the musical clubs, the 
! Tartan is the largest non-athlotic ac
tivity on the campus. Tho Tartan 
I needs men from the Sophomore and 
i Freshmen classes to work on the adj vertising staff.
j The work will require about two or 
j three hours a week. The work is not 
! easy, but it is very interesting and 
! is also remunerative, 
j Here is a chance to make a name
I for yourself on the campus. To be 
awarded one of the Tartans valuable 
and much sought after insignia, for 
deserving work on this publication 
and a chance to work into the job of 
business manager of the Tartan.
All men interested in this can ob
tain further particulars from Web 
Cunningham at the Sigma Alpha Ep
silon Fraternity House, 4915 Forbes 
street, Friday afternoon at 4:30 p. m.
TO PUBLISH ARCHITEC
TURAL YEAR BOOK AGAIN
An architectural year book is being 
..published this year which contains 
the best work of the department of 
Architecture. It Is customary for the 
schools of architecture in this coun
try and abroad to publish the best 
work of their students. The depart
ment of Architecture in our institu
tion ranks among the highest In the 
country and a book was felt necessary 
to show other students and outsiders 
the excellent work being done here. 
Not only will the book bo a wonder
ful collection of student work, but it 
can be used for reference and as an 
inducement to prospective students.
Five years ago a book of this kind 
was put out by the department and 
the work accomplished since then has 
been of such merit as to warrant an
other .book of even superior qualities. 
Besides the arcliitecural value of this 
book, the financial value is easily un
derstood when it is figured thatthe 
120 plates or photographs would cost 
the student $1 per plate, whereas in 
the bound volume, the Architectural 
Year Book containing these photo
graphs can be procured for $1.50.
The book specificially is to contain 
120 Beaux Arts Medal and First Men
tion problems (A and B plan), be
sides Archeologys, Analytiques, Esquisse-Esquisses, charcoal drawings 
from cast and life, -water colors, 
(Continued on Page Three)
Song Book Selections to 
Be Sung at Gen. Assembly
Today, at the General Assembly, 
Carnegie students will be given their 
first opportunity to hear and learn 
some of the new Carnegie songs to 
be printed and released soon in the 
Carnegie Tech Song Book. Four num
bers are to be given by the Clee Club 
in todays program and at the close 
the students will be asked to sing the 
new Alma Mater.
The new Song Book is to be an al
most distinctive Carnegie production. 
Except for the one song, Ship Ahoy, 
all of the songs, both music and verse, 
have already been printed In the Tar
tan and have met the approval of the 
students. The music to all of the 
songs is very spirited and will un
doubtedly prove very popular.
It is now entirely a question of how 
soon the printer can print the book 
to determine the date of the appear
ance of the Song Book on the campus. 
The entire book is now complete and 
is ready for the printer to start work.
The committee, comiibsed of Alfred 
Johnson, chairman; Tucker Ames and 
T. S. Repplier, is endeavoring to com
plete its work as soon as possible so 
that the school may see and appre
ciate the distinctive Carnegie Tech 
Song Book.
TECH JOURNAL TO 
BE ON SALE TUES
To Contain Many Interesting: 
and Valuable Articles 
By Noted Men
A very-desirable article entitled 
The Extermination of Rats and 
Mice, lias been contributed for the 
next Technical Journal by Dr. O. 
Hedenburg of the Mellon Institute of 
Industrial Research, who has attained 
cnosiderable eminence through his 
work on insecticides and fungicides, 
and has recently turned his attention 
to the requirements and ingredients of 
a superior rat poison.
Though rntlier bizarre in its sub
ject matter, it is an article which 
should attract almost universal atten
tion for it stands unique. It is, how
ever, rivalled both in Instructiveness 
and In originality by a monograph on 
Uranium by Dr. Alexander of tho 
Chemistry Department, who is a rec
ognized authority on this subject and 
lias spent much time in gathering Ills 
material.
Miss Wakefield, a Margaret Morri
son graduate, now junior follow of 
the Laundry Fellowship at the Mellon 
Institute, discusses tho engineering 
(Continued on Page Four.)
FIVE DESIGNS ENTERED 
IN LEBRUN SCHOLARSHIP
Five graduate architects of tho Col
lege of FIno Arts last week completed 
six weeks of hard work for tho Lo 
Brun prize competition. Tho subject 
of tho competition was tho design for 
A Museum for Arts and Crnfts.
Tho Ld Brun Travoling 'Scholarship 
is an annual prize given for tho host 
design submitted and which gives tho 
author of tho winning design tho sum 
of $1,400 to be used for travoling ex
penses and study in Franco, Italy and 
Greece.
Five Camoglo Tocli men woro per
mitted to enter tills competition, hav
ing met tho requiromonts by their 
previous meritorious work. Those 
men representing Carncgio Tocli aro 
Paul Simpson, George N. Pauly, Wil
lard J. Porklns, Harry Brummor and 
W. Wilson. Two former Carnegie 
men, James Metheny and Addison Sta
ples, have also entered the competi
tion, under the supervision of their 
own Atelier.
Professor Harry Sternfeld Is to be 
commonded for his earnest efforts In 
helping these men in their endeavors 
to bring more honors to Carnegie 
Tech. To date this year, the depart
ment of Architecture has already been 
honored by one of her students win
ning the Stewardson Prize, which was 
awarded to Otto M. Olsen last Novem
ber.
M. M. First Semester Honor 
Pupils Named at Assembly
Miss Breed announced the following 
list of students in the Margaret Mor
rison Assembly on February 28 as 
honor students ranking highest in 
their classes as a result of the mid
year examinations:
FreshmenEstelle Garibaldi, Jean 
Hallet, Elizabeth  Schwartz, Zula 
Brumbaugh, Miriam Kuehnisen, Mary 
Fulton, Edith Warren, Emma Day, Isa
bella Collins, Margaret Connor, Mary 
Dale, Charlotte Bailey, Helen Webs
ter, Nora Willetts, Alice Espe.
SphomoresAnna Mae Clawson, 
Lura Geistwhite, Elsbeth Lenehan, 
Hildreth Bougliamer, Genevieve 
Carey, Sarah Sussman, Helen Weimer, 
Margaret Allen, Anne Kinzer, Marga
ret McFall.
Seniors and JuniorsLillian Cowan, 
Helen Busch, Doris 'Myers.
PUBLIC WELCOME TO HEAR
MR. VAUCLAIN AT ASSEMBLY
Dr. Thomas S. Baker announces 
that the public Is welcome to attend 
the assembly Wednesday to hear Mr. 
Vauclain. Many *of tho Pittsburgh 
friends of the famous Philadelphian 
are planning to give him a pleasant 
day of It here. A luncheon will be 
given in his honor at the University 
Club following the address at the Mu
sic Hall, and later he will visit Pitts
burgh University and the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing 
Company. In the evening at the P. 
A. A. a dinner in his honor will be 
given by C. Graham Bacon, of the 
Standard Steel Car Company.
FOREIGN RELIEF 
STUDENT DRIVE 
BEGINS TODAY
TAU BETA PI AND ALPHA ALPHA 
NU TO MAKE THEIR MID-YEAR 
SELECTIONS THIS WEEK
Campaign Begins at Assem
bly and Will End Thursday 
Noon  All Students and 
Faculty iShould Contribute
GET YOUR TAG TODAY
Immediately at the close of General 
Assembly this morning, a corps of 
eighty undergraduates, recruited 
equally from all four colleges, will 
take the field, and will start tho cam
paign for the Student Friendship 
Fund, the workings of which aro to 
be explained by Mr. Morgan P. Noyes, 
Yale 17, in an address at General As
sembly. iStudents, faculty, and mem
bers of the administration will be ap
proached. Tags will be sold to the 
students, the faculty, and to the mem
bers of the administration from noon 
today until 1:30 tomorrow afternoon, 
at whatever price each individual 
feels he or she can afford to pay for 
them. The need for cash, to bo de
voted to the purposes of the European 
Student Relief, is so great that con
tributions of any size are appreciated, 
and, in order to reach as many citi
zens of Carnegie as possible, it was 
decided not to put a definite price on 
the tags.
The work is in tho hands of a hon
orai committee of sixteen members, 
each of whom selected four others to 
aid in tho sale of tho tags. This will 
completely covor tho campus during 
tho twenty-four hours allotted to tho 
drive.
Last year when the campaign was 
extended over tho poriod of a woolc, 
and pledges received to bo paid at a 
later date, more than sovon hundred 
and fifty dollars was subscribed and 
paid. This year only cash contribu
tors or checks aro asked for, and tho 
campaign will last twenty-four hours 
only. It will take tho support of 
ovory undergraduato and of ovory 
campus citizen to equal this total this 
year. It can bo done, and will bo 
done easily, If all will only do their 
part and purchaso a tag at tho price 
tlioy fool that thoy can afford to pay.
This fund, ono of tho worthiest: 
movomonts now in oxlstonco among 
tho collogos of tho Unltod StatoS, pro
vides money for tho support of desti
tute collogo men and women In Eu
rope and tho countrlos of tho Nonr 
(Continued on Pago Four.)
ART STUDES WORKING ON 
NEW INSIGNIA DESIGNS
Students In Llio Division of FIno 
Arts for sovoral woolcs past luivo 
boon working on doBlgns for distinc
tive inslgnlas for non-athlotlc activi
ties. This work Is being conducted 
undor tho plan of tho Studont Activi
ties Board which has rocognlzod tho 
schools nood In this rospoct.
Last wocic students of tho four 
schools woro asked to submit any de
signs thoy might havo, but fow 
slcotchos havo boon liandod to Jeffers, 
president of tho board. Many inter
esting and appropriate dosigns havo 
resultod from tho work of tho Design 
School students.
A meeting of tho board will bo hold 
next Wednesday at which tho adop
tion of new Insignia will bo deckled 
in order that this years awards may 
bo secured.
DEANS ENTERTAIN CABINETS
Dean Brown and Dean Tarbell gave 
a dinner and reception Tuesday night 
at the College Club to the members 
of the cabinets of the Y. M. C. A. and 
the Y. W. C. A. at Tech. The Deans 
discussed with the students a program 
of closer unity of purpose and co
operation for service work at the In
stitute. The meeting adjourned in 
time for the guests to attend the lec
ture in iSyria Mosque by Miss Maude 
Royden.
Student Work on Exhibit 
At Building and Home Show
The Department of Building Con
struction, College of Industries, will 
have a unique display at the Build
ing Show and Own-A-I-Iome Expo-, 
sition, to.be .held March 14 to 24 at. 
Motor {Square Garden. Through the 
generosity of the Builders Exchange 
oil Pittsburgh, Carnegie Tech VOL. 
been given a space of 26x32 feet, in 
the basement.
Professor Dunnells, head of the D<v 
parLment,, and his assistants will 
lake advantage of this opportunity 
to show what Tocli students aro do
ing, by displaying several opon rooms 
of an ordinary house. In each room 
students from the Electrical Equip*- 
mont and! Construction, Heating Ven
tilating and Sanitation, Carpentry, 
SheoL Metal, and Briok-laying de
partments will bo at work on various 
problems. The Department of Agri
culture, College of Fine Arts, will al
so display some of Its student work.
Both day and night students will 
be on duty throughout the exhibition 
at work In the C. I. T. exhibit. The 
exposition will be one of the most 
important of the year in Pittsburgh 
because of its wide interest, and 
3houll be well worth attending.
Two honorary societies, Tau Botn 
Pi and Alpha Alpha Nu, will malco 
their mid-year selections of candidates 
this woolc at tho Science Stag Smoker 
and tho Gonornl Assembly respective
ly.
Tau Beta Pi is a national honorary 
choosing man for outstanding work in 
tho Engineering Collogo, while Alpha 
Alpha Nu recognizes exceptional work 
in tho field of publications.
NEW REGULATIONS 
FOR TEA DANCES
Women Must Pay Admission 
Fee. Only Class Tea Dances 
Will Be Allowed
Tho following regulations for tho 
conduct of tea dances In the Union 
were proposed by tho Social Commit
tee and accepted by tho Student Coun
cil.
Only class .tea dances will bo al
lowed.
Tho tea dance must be arranged 
by a four schools committee of tho 
class desiring to hold tho dance.
Only mombors of tho class giving 
the danco will be allowed to partici
pate In tho danco. Seniors will havo 
tho privilege of attending any dance 
givon by tho undor classes however.
It will bo necessary for tho women 
as well as tho mou to pay tho admis
sion foo.
The committee giving tho dance 
will bo hold for tho success of tho 
danco as woll as for tho arrange
ments.
Those regulations have rocoivod 
tho approval of Doans Brown and 
Tarboll as woll ns that of tho Council 
and will bo offectlvo at onco.
Tho Girls Sonlor Ball dato has boon 
changed to April 14 on account of a 
con (Hat at tho University Club on tho 
dato originally clioson.
T. S. Repplier was appointed chair
man of tho Oommonoomont Woolc 
Commlttoo. Lillian Cowan will bo 
sub-olmlrman In charge of tho wo
men's part. Tho commlttoo will work 
(.Continued on Pago Two.)
Glee and Mandolin Clubs 
Make Extensive Trip
Forty momhera of tho Carnegie 
Musical Clubs Look, tho second long 
trip of tho season, which Included 
Erie, Buffalo and Oorry.
Tho first concert was given In Hie 
Auditorium of Central High School 
at Erie undor the auspices of tho 
Junior class.
Tho Erlo papers oommontod very 
favorably on tills concert which wan 
given boforo a largo audience.
Following the concort a danco was 
hold in tho Community House for tho 
members of the club. Tho Tocli Nov
elty Orchestra furnished tho music.
From Erlo tho clubs wont to Buffa
lo whore thoy woro scheduled to 
make their next appoaranco. Tho 
concort was givon Friday evening 
in tho Auditorium of tho Twentieth 
Century dub. The affair was hold 
under the charge of tho Interfratern
ity Council of Buffalo, a council of 
fourteen prep school fraternities. 
Following the concort a seml-formal 
dance, was given in the spacious ball
room.
The c6ncert in Corry was given 
under the auspices of the Senior 
Class of the I-Ilgh School.
All of the concerts wore given in a 
pleasing manner and were well re
ceived by the audiences before which 
-they wore givon.
H. iS, Blackmore gave several se
lections on the 'collo which were 
charming. The Tech Novelty Orches
tra gave several fine pieces with 
their variations. They also assisted 
the two features, W. Reilly in a 
Jewish act, singing My Hoam 
Town, and W. Cunningham in a 
black face act singing Aggravatin 
Papa" The latters singing of The 
Walls of Jericho Fall, toolc^everyone 
by storm.
PLAID GRIDDERS 
WILL PLAY FIVE 
HOME GAMES
September 30 Still Open For 
Initial Game. Well-Bal
anced Schedule Indicates 
Care in Selection
TWO NEW OPPONENTS
1923 Football Schedule.
'September 30(Opon.)
October GThiol at Carnegie Bowl.
October 13St. Ignatius at Cleve
land, Ohio.
October 20W. & J. at Washing
ton, Pa.
October 27University of Pitts
burgh nt Forbes Field.
November 3Lehigh at Carnegie 
Bowl.
November 10Detroit at Detroit, 
Mich.
November 17(No gamo.)
November 24  Notre Dame at 
Forbes Field.
As tho weeks and months roll by, 
bit by bit the 1923 football schedule 
becomes adjusted after the many per
plexing problems that arose during 
'the early scramble for exchange of 
dates.
As tho schedule now stands it in
cludes sovon games, but when com
pleted it will Include eight games,
11 vo at homo and 'three away. Tho 
only pending dato is the opening 
game which will bo played in the 
Carnegie bowl against a team that 
will glvo enough fight to sot tho 'Partan machine in good working form.
Tho Thiol Collogo toam will moot 
tho Plaid for an encounter In tho 
bowl tho Saturday following 1 ho
opening; gamo. By the end of the 
week after tlie socoiul gamo tho Sklbo oloven under Coach Steffen's su
pervision, should havo Its woalc 
points strengthened sufficiently to en
gage with much stronger teams than 
tho first two.
The previous scheduling of a game 
with a strong Wostorn university 
was found unadvlnable because of the 
chances of crippling tho team for 
the four gam os that followed It, so 
tho athletic authorities of Carnoglo 
(Continued on Pago Four.)
Dean Brown Speaks 
At M. M. Assembly
Miss Herman of Arts Gives 
Several Readings
The girls of Margaret Morrlnon 
wero given something good to think 
about In a talk by Doan Brown at 
last Wednesday's assombly. Miss 
Brown spoke of a dean's convention 
which she attended recently, choosing 
two special topics, which woro dis
cussed at tho convention, for tho gist 
of her talk. Tho first of those topic 
was "Tho Effect of tho Classroom on 
the Forolgnor."
At the convention, It was thought 
that our collogos should bo just us 
exacting In their expectations of for
eign students as thoy are of our 
American students. This method is 
host for tho foreign pupil, because he 
will not only study liardor and get 
more out of ills courses, but when ho 
returns homo ho will come up to tho 
expectations of his countrymen.
The second topic was the "Question 
of the Negro in Our Collogos." There 
is trouble throughout tho country 
about admitting tho Negro on the 
samo basis as tho white. Especially 
is this true in Kansas, whore the 
equality plan has boon tried. Several 
prominent persons advocate inter
marriage, as the only solution; others 
abhor the idea. The situation, how
ever, seems to be taking care of it
self, for out of the ten million blacks 
in the United States, two million five 
hundred thousand are mulattoes, 
which means that inter-marriage has 
taken place.
At the conclusion of Miss Browns 
talk, Lillian Cowan took charge of the 
assembly ,and announced that Miss 
Marguerite Herman of the College of 
Fine Arts had consented to give sev(Continued on Page Two.)
Zeigfield Follies Play Major Parts 
In Tonsorial Parlors Now in Arts
By T. S. Repplier.
(Writer carries heavy Insurance) 
Something in the line of a distinct 
innovation lias been installed in the 
College of Fine Arts recently, which 
promises to bo of much service to stu
dents of that division. Already tho 
shop has cleared four hundred dol
lars and sovoral bales of hair, to say 
nothing of fulfilling a long felt want.
Bartbnrouu Barbero,
The aforesaid rival of Fred's 
Fargos Painless Parlours has boon 
duly opened with tho proper coremonies last Wednesday noon. Tho 
gonorul motif was palo cream and 
cerise, giving a general effect of a 
hasty shave. A colored orchestra of 
ten pieces played softly tho latest hit 
"Soap igud Blues" while -Professor 
Bowers, the distinguished proprietor, 
did a graceful and artistic dance with 
a razor In one hand and a pair of 
shears in the other as a demonstra
tion of his tonsorial ability. Long beforo the shop opened its doors, a huge 
crowd, hud gathered to view .Mr. Bowers unequaled performance, and wero 
clamoring for admission.
Female Snlppern,
As an extra added attraction, as tho 
movies say. It was announced that for 
a week only, special lady barbers 
from Mr, Zlogfields Follies would bo 
on hand to shear the locks of all inale 
dmmats. Despite these artistic crea
tures woll known. aversion to a hair 
cut, tho Inducement was sufficient to 
attract Mr, Duinmy Szold and a large 
flock of Ills cohorts to the ministra
tions of tile little shavers, and by way 
of souvenirs, each student was pre
sented with a mattress stuffed with 
the hair removed from, his head. Sev
eral intrepid ones were reckless 
enough to trust themselves to the at^ 
tentions of the Chorines . under tl^>' 
(Continued on Page Four.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MARCH 14, 1923
PubliBhefi every week by undergraduate of the Carnegie Institute of
Technology under the supervision of the .Student Activities Board.____________
Entered in the Postonico of Pittsburgh as second-class matter
VICTOR H. STROMQUIST ..................................'..........V...................... Editor-in Chief
TelephoneHlland 858.
H. D. SONNEMANN.............................................................................. Business Manager
TelephoneSchenley 0211
BDW. A. BRAND....................................................................................... Managing Editor
TolephonoSchenley 9143
KENNETH ARNOLD .............................................................................. Associate Editor
H. F. SIMPSON.......................................................................................... Associate Editor
H. F. DIETER...................................................................................................Associate Editor
MARK S. DOWNES................................................................................................Nows Editor
TeleplionoHazel 9308
FItED C. SMITH......................................................................................................Now Editor
TelephoneHlland 8118-J
FRED T. PHELPS.................................................................................................Nows Editor
Telephone-Schenloy 0102
H. II. WILSON .....................................................................................................Athletic Editor
TelephoneHazel 0806
R. P. HAY ........................................................................................................... Photographer
R. 13. KELLER ............................................................................................Exchange Editor
E. P. COUSE, JR............................................................................................................Art Editor
T. S. REPPLIKR .............................................................................................. Spoclal Writer
w. B. CUNNINGHAM ........................................  Advertising Manager
TelephoneSchenley 021.1
J. C. MAJOR.....................................................................................  Circulation Manager
TelephoneSchonley 0102
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
Eleanor Martin, P. C. McKenzie, L. Ilert/.inan, F. D. Rossini, W. Winning, 
L. D. Richards, A. F. Androws, B. DoMaro, E. G. Bigie, A. E. Krough, I. II.
Isaacs, R. G. Kennedy. ________
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
E. C. Frazier, J. H. Ferguson, G. E. Jacoby, J. Christoff,; H. P. RoBBback.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
W. B. Cunningham, T. J. Dempsey, J. B. Laud I g, D. Moskovitz, J. W. 
Metro, P. W. Reilly, II. GlbBOn, W. A. Jaclco, P. Edio, 11. L. Sandrock, B. 
Broudy, H. Urschel. ____________________________________________________
Tho Editor-In-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for tho make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest,- if signed. 
Signature will bo withhold If desired. All news items must be in tho Btudont 
postonico before 4:80 Friday. ______________________
Tartan OiilceRoom G-A, Industries Building. Office hoursTuesday, 
11:80 to 1:00, WednoBday, 12:00 to 1:00.
CAMPUS WEEK
Campus Week is a Carnegie Tecli institution. It is the biggest 
event of the year. It is the climax cach year for every single student, 
he he Freshman, Sophomore, Junior or Senior.
Tho Juniors may have their Junior Prom; the Seniors their 
Commencement Week; the Sophomores their hop, and the Freshmen 
their banquet. The Industries may have their Gambol; the Arts their 
Ball, and Science, their smoker.
All oil these may be had. They are all the property and speci
fic event oi! one group. But, Campus Week is the one big event, com
mon to all Carnegie Tech men and women. It belongs to no single 
group.
As an institution and tradition, it is here to stay.
On account oi! its magnificence above any other thing put on by 
Carnegie Tech students, it demands more time. It further demands 
trained mon, who understand their job among the many jobs. There
fore, its conductance should be placet! on the firmest basis possible. 
II, should bo rated as a student activity, and recognition given to the 
membors of the general committee in the form of an insignia. More, 
the men who win places on'this'committee should bo decided by their 
experience on sub-committees in the past. They should bo thorough
ly conversant with their duties through actual training.
Tho Carnbgie Tartan feels as il! Campus Week should be placed 
on tho samo footing as the publications, musical clubs, band and other 
student activities. A doilnito plan ol! advancement to tho important 
jobs on tho general committee should be drawn up.
Wo suggest tho JSresont committee work out something oi! that 
naturo. 1 j
THE UNEDUCATED SENIOR
I am n. Sonior. Ilow often you have heard that expression 
omnnato from tho lips of one who has hopes of graduating in Juno. 
Ho w often, on being thus in formed, you might have come back with 
the remark: You may be a Sonior, but you Vo not educated.
A, largo number ol! the present Senior class are uneducated. 
They may lie overdo wing with knowledge of calculus; they mny por
tray ability in tho arts; they mny have the required, number of points 
of <|iinlity and, still lack nn education.
Tho college degree is not significant of the educated man or 
woman. A, groat many Seniors will ho presented with the coveted 
sheepskin, in Juno who are not worthy ol! tho position it should sig
nify, Tho coTlogo degree moans only scholastic satisfaction with respoet to tho records and the school authorities. Nothing in the 
degree suggests an education in the true souse of the word.
Tho Sonior who has obtained an education while at Carnegie al
lotted his time to his studies, his fol'lowmon, and his activities. 
Through application to his books his mind was trained for clear 
thinking. By constant association with his fellowmen he mndo new 
friends, a real personality, and learned to know and appreciate the 
viewpoint of others. The time allotted to his activities was time 
spent in helping his Alma Mater and in acquiring and developing 
that quality which is so much admired and so essential in life after 
collegeinitiative.
Tho educated Senior thus divided his time. He will receive a 
degree. The large majority gave all of their time to the school books. 
They will also receive degrees.
Do you prefer to be just a Senior or does education mean more 
to you? Will YOU take more than a sheepskin with you when you 
leave Carnegie?
Student Calendar
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 14
General Student Assembly...........................11:30, Carnegie Musie Hall
THURSDAY, MARCH 15
Chapel ......................................................................... 12:50, Arts Theater
Band Practice......................................................... 7:30, Carnegie Union
FRIDAY, MARCH 16
DanceMusical Clubs............................................9:00, Carnegie Union
SATURDAY, MARCH 17
SmokerScience Stag............................................7:45, Carnegie Union
SUNDAY, MARCH 18
Musical ClubsGlee Club.....................................2:30, Arts Exhibition
Mandolin Club............................2:30, Carnegie Union
TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, FRIDAY AND 
SATURDAY, MARCH 20, 21, 22, 23 AND 24
DramaTorch Race............................................8:15, Arts Theater..
THURSDAY, MARCH 22
Concert/Girls Home Concort and Dnnoe.........................................
.................................................................8:15, Cavnogio Locturo Hull
SATURDAY, MARCH 24, TO AVHlti 8 (Inclusive) 
liastor Vacation.........................................................................No Classes
ROAMINSCOMMENTSFOR THE GOOD OF CARNEGIE TECH
.1. W. Paul, Minili}; lingincer, 
Lectures at Miners Meet
On last Tuesday afternoon, J. W. 
Paul, the Chief Coal Mining Engineer, 
lectured to tlio mining students in 
Room G3, Science. His subject was 
Modern Coal Mining Methods," and 
he discussed to some extent the pos
sibilities of using mechanical means 
to load the coal into the cars at the 
face.
The lecture of the previous week 
was given by H. N. Eaverson, a Con
sulting Mining Enginer of this city.
Tis topic was Mine Projection, and 
talked mostly on underground deopment.
The essentials of tlio tulle was lay
out, extent of property, capaolty dosired, life of mino, method of mining, 
haulage and ventilation.
TWO HUNDRED EIGHTY
COUPLES AT SOPH HOP
(Continued From Page Ono)
Dean Mary Louise Brown, Dean and 
Mrs. Tarbell, Dean Mary Breed, Dean 
and Mrs. Bossange, Dean and Mrs. 
Morris, Dean and Mrs. Mott, Miss Es
telle Bonnell and Mr. H. K. Kirtpatriclc.
IzzieHey, dont spit on the floor, 
, IgessoSmatter? Floor leak?Uni
versity (Cincinnati) News.
You laughed when you saw Barneys 
Spark Plug win by u noBe over the 
kangaroo; you are amused when you 
wltnesB a fair co-ed run acroBB the 
cut on a windy day; but nothing will 
appeal to your sense of humor to a 
greater extent than the Kiddy Kar 
race to bo hold by the girls during 
Campus Week.
It promlBOB to rival tho Inter-fraternlty Sweepstakes.
Roam or advlsos tho girls to start 
training. Tho grade behind tho Col
lege of Fine Arts takes plenty of wind. 
A little inter-dorm debating might 
servo to put tho teamB In condition.
And don't put too much tlmo on 
tho designing of the cars. No one 
will notlco them.
A resident of Oakland reports that 
he saw one of tho co-eds training for 
this big Campus Week event shortly 
aftor dark ono evening last week. She 
camo on the field equipped with a 
stop watch, a two-foot rule and three 
sorority sisters. After laying off one 
hundred rule lengths in the center of 
Forbes street, Bhe set the stop watch 
and amid the cheering of the crowd of 
three rooters and hundreds of aston
ished onlookers and admirers crossed 
tho tape In good time.
Wlion questioned as to the purpose 
of using the two-foot rule she replied 
Last night I used a yard stick and 
measured off the hundred lengths. We 
decided that to win tho race my time 
would have to bo lowered. Thats 
why I used the two-foot rule and with 
a flourish of the rule in the faces of 
tho onlookers, she shut oil the watch, 
allowed the cars to pass, and hur
ried back to her room.
Date Bureau Receives 
Little Encouragement
Idea Admitted Good But Practibility is Questioned
Did you got a date for the dance, 
tonight, Mary?
Not yet, Jane, but the Date Bureau 
Is fixing it up with a tall, good looking 
blonde.
Perhaps wo will soon hear conver
sations of tills typo floating around 
tlio campus, What is it all about, you 
ask? It is tho Date Bureau, the Buroau suggested to Roamer some 
weoks ago which would have a file 
containing the pictures of all males 
and fonmloB on tho campus and which 
would endeavor to find dates for the 
lonesome and bashful ones Avlien call
ed upon. Some activity of this sort 
has boon carried 011 In the past by 
tho Doan of Women, but in these 
cases tho dates woro entirely blind. 
Tills now plan would eliminate all 
guoss work and though the Psychol
ogy Dopartmont would not be asked 
to glvo tho applicants special men
tality tests, tho bureau would oporato 
on such a huslnoss-llko basis as to 
classify all tho applicants according 
to tastOB, likes and dislikes, etc. Be
fore going furthor, lot us understand 
that tho bureau Is not in tho process 
of formation, Its formation has not 
been seriously considered, but tho 
Cavnogio Tartan has just completed a 
partial survey among tho Maggy 
Murphs to ascertain their attitude to
wards tho plan.
How many have over tried to got a 
young ladys ideas 011 a serious ques
tion ol! this typo? Few II! any. How 
many have nuccoodod In getting tho 
Information they desired? Absolutely 
none. You can not pump a Maggy 
Mur ph.' Howover, some of the promInont girls In M. M. did glvo us a 
pretty good Idea of how such a propo
sition would find favor among tho 
girls. Most of tliom liked tlio idea 
and approved tho motive, but of 
courso would rather see the plan 
working successfully before they 
would want to try It for themselves. 
Evidently, some of them have been 
stung 011 blind dates. The majority 
seemed to think that the plan would 
bo very good If applied to the Fresh
man, and some of them thought that 
it would be very good for t the male 
Plebes as they believed that the 
Plobe men did not get acquainted fast 
enough. A good many of the girls 
wanted more details of the plan which 
showed that they, at least, were in
terested.
INTROSPECTION AND SUCCESS
A professor once lecturing to his 
class stated that If he could give his 
students a detached point of view on 
themselves and allow them to see 
themselves in the future, he would be 
amply justified if he did no other 
thing.
What ho meant, the psychologists 
would explain, is that ho wanted to 
give his class tho subjective experi
ences of a number of years'without 
having them actually through that 
time. He wanted to gage their equip
ment for life, by what they will need 
In the future and not by what they 
now think they need.
Of course, tho professors Idea Is a 
simple ono looking at it in the ab
stract, but how many of us have really 
tried to peer ahead Into the future 
and then examino ourselves In the 
light of what we have found. We 
agree with the professor yet never 
get to tho point of acting on the 
thought, It remains a thought as years 
glldo by, perhaps leaving us behind.
For a case In point, Instructors at 
Carnegie alive to the less obvious re
sponsibilities of their profession, have 
repeatedly berated their students on 
the complete lack of ability to express 
themselves with even engineering co
herence. When asked a question the 
student mechanically fumbles for a 
pencil, or weakly attempts an expla
nation such as it Iswell you see, 
ahfor example. He Is fumbling 
completely In the dark. Many stu
dents of ability will recognize them
selves here, yet how many will con
sciously make any efforts towards 
correction? Surely the student needs 
little Imagination to predict a day 
when his career may have reached a 
crisis and when a1 project which is 
to be his making Is to "be put across. 
A board of directors table with a 
dozen skeptical men, a hot nervous 
engineer who is floundering about in 
the English language while' his career, 
as visualized on the faces of his llsterners, is slipping away from him. 
Surely there Is a deep element of 
tragedy about this man who has the 
.ability and the idea and yet is unable 
to "sell himself to the users of them.
Being absorbed in science, Tech
nology students have often failed to 
round off many other faults that will 
be bound to be bars to their progress. 
Each man knows Ills faults better 
than anyone else, It, would be idle for 
anyone to nttempt to correct them. As 
he goes out into life, he will find a 
cold-blooded atmosphere where people 
will be less Inclined to even tell him 
of his faults. The obvious solution 
then is, while young and able to 
change, to get a careful introspection, 
a clear knowledge of ones shortcom
ings and a truo engineers determina
tion to make the elimination of them 
a matter of duty and pride.
To the Editor of The Tartan:
In the new song book we hope that 
the tunc of Haydn to the Alma Mater 
will be printed as well as the new 
one, which Is much of a puzzle to 
those who aro used to the old stirring 
notes. If wo may bo allowed to sing 
tho words of America to an English 
tuno wo do not .XX any good reason 
to prevent us singing the Alma Mater 
to Haydns great anthem.
A TARTANITE.
Priscilla Allison, prosldont of tho 
Margaret Morrison Senior class, was 
to give her views on the Idoa and tho 
following answer was received: Woll, 
forovormoro, who suggested such a 
crazy Idea? Tho thought tlion pop
ped Into our minds that by asking this 
question wo might bo able to discover 
tlio pot expression of all tho girls In 
tho samo manner. I-Ioaven, Gra
cious and tho llko woro all exposed. 
Eloanor. Martin, treasurer of tho Se
nior class, said it might work, but 
that she had her doubt. Quito a few 
agrood with her. Nlin Cunningham, 
chairman of tlio Plebo class social 
committee, expressed tho view that is 
shared by a majority of the Plebes: 
If might be a good idea. Ai this 
point Mr. Kennedy, instructor in Eng
lish in both the mens and women's 
colleges, was aked to give an opin
ion. Wo cant quote Mr. Kennedy, 
but we can say that he thought the 
plan would be fine if properly super
vised and worked out. At any rate he 
claims that there would be a bit of 
enjoyment in viewing the results of 
such a plan whether it should be a 
success or a failure.
NEED OF RELIEF IN 
RUSSIA DISCLOSED
Relief Fund Worker Gives 
Extent of Suffering Exist
ing in Russia
You men and women of Carnegie to 
whom the appeal for funds for the 
European Student Relief seems imma
terial and unnecessary, who think the 
Student Friendship Fund drive is su
perfluous, and that anyway Europe 
and the Near East are a long way 
off, and do not concern you very 
much, at least not to the extent of dig
ging down into your pockets and buy
ing a tag for whatever price you can 
pay, read what Donald Grant, a Re
lief Fund worker just returned from 
abroad, has to say concerning condi
tions in Russia. Says Mr. Grant:
I saw a van in a street unloading 
some young orphan people. They 
were like ghosts and wore only a 
ghostly sheet as clothing. They were 
helped out of the van one by one, but 
they could hardly walk. One of them 
fell as he got out and had to be as
sisted in order to arise. I could hear 
their bones rattling as they jolted into 
the house. They were of the ages 
from ten to eighteen.
Last night the doctor showed me 
a collection he had made of the kind 
of bread the people are in the habit 
of eating, also the kinds of meal 
which they use. The original sub
stances are grass, clay, bones, leather, 
bark and roots. Some of the people 
have to go on eating these things 
even after help has arrived because 
they have become so accustomed to 
these substances. I have seen many 
photos of people who eat human 
flesh along with the remains of their 
human repast.
"In the colleges here I asked the 
students to let me have some stories 
descriptive of the bad conditions in 
which they find themselves. Several 
of them had themselves eaten grass, 
and were not sure but they would 
have to do so again.
The girl who acted in this college 
as an interpreter for me talked 
French very well, and when it was 
time to go away I said to her that 
she surely talked French very well. 
Well, I have been educated in Paris, 
she said, although I have not spoken 
French now for three years. So she 
was well off a few years ago, and now 
she is as poor as all the others. It 
may be some comfort for her that 
they are all in the same condition. 
Her hair is very short as if it had 
been cut off because of illness, and 
her clothes are very poor. She stud
ies agriculture now.
B-----------, a medical student, camo
one day into the IClinik of the Swed
ish mission. The doctor saw him, and 
now tells me about him. This boy 
could hardly walk, he was so weak 
from hunger, and he had some heart 
trouble as a result of his starvation. 
But he wanted the doctor to come to 
see his sister. The doctor went. The 
brother and sister live in a small part 
of the room occupied by another fam
ily. They have to go through the 
other part of tho room to reach their 
own corner. Very bare and poor is 
tlio room, and nothing to eat is there. 
The sister had fever, and the doctor 
soon discovered that It was typhus. 
So the sister was removed to tho hos
pital, and then the brother was ready 
to bo sent to the hospital, although 
ho had refused earlier to leave his 
sister. These two young people be
long to a family that formerly had an 
estate and lived well. Now they are 
without resources and have to go 
from day to day starving.
"G-----------used to have an estate not
very far from here. The revolution 
came. Czechoslovaks, Koltchaks, 
Reds, all came and now she is alone 
in Samara and tries to learn some
thing of tlio theory of agriculture aft
er having done much of it in practice. 
Her father and brother were in Fin
land when she last heard of them a 
few years ago, and a brother Is in 
Australia, of whom she 1ms not heard j 
since 1915. She is alone and without 
resources in this town which is sure
ly the dirtiest in Russia. She is with
out funds. She was educated in-Paris, 
and in Petrograd. Now she has just 
a few things to wear, and has to make 
the best of them. She said nothing 
about this but I have eyes.
W----------- was my interpreter in
Saratov. He lives with his mother'in 
a poor part of the town. He is a 
medical student and works to keep ; 
himself and his mother. They keep a j 
little goat and its. milk is a help to 
them. They had once also a small 
estate outside the town, but now all 
that remains to them therefrom is the 
fact that they are dubbed as bour
geois and reckoned as not poor.
"J-----------was an officer in the Rus
sian army when the revolution over
took it in 1917. He was in the re
treat from Erserum. He was taken 
out to be shot but was not. Then he 
got the chance to escape with some 
English officers, away from the army, 
away from Russia. But he said he 
would go back to find his family. He 
made his way gradually back towards 
Saratov, and escaped twice again with 
difficulty from being shot. Now all 
that remains of the family, himself, 
his mother and brother, eke out a 
poor existence while lie manages at 
the same time to study.
INDUSTRIALIST WILL
SPEAK AT GEN. ASSEMBLY
(Continued From Page Ono.) 
a short talk on tlio Student. Friend
ship drive. Mr. Noyes has been In 
Europe for the past year and will 
have several interesting facts to pre
sent. He Is in Pittsburgh especially 
to address the assembly, and will re
turn to New York as soon as it is 
over.
Alpha Alpha Nu, the honorary jour
nalistic fraternity, will announce its 
selection for the mid-semester.
At the close, the Alma Mater will 
be sung to the new tune, the Black 
Imps furnishing the tune.
This program will be snappy and 
entertaining as well. Lets get out 
and support this assembly as it de
serves to be supported.
Society and business go hand in 
hand, and the man who cannot play 
them both will be left sadly in the 
lurch. To play society along with 
the business a man must have a lib
eral education. CARNEGIE TECH 
is proud of the liberality of her 
technical education. One would 
have to look far and wide to find 
an institution which gives as good a 
technical education on as fine a back
ground of the broader subjects as 
does Carnegie.
Technology is a theoretical knowl
edge of industries and manufactures. 
It is also that branch of ethnology 
which treats of the development of 
the arts. More, It is the application 
of science to the arts.
The arts may be esthetic or indus
trial. The former is of beauty, of 
the finer things in life. The latter 
are useful, and require chiefly man
ual labor, or skill and which engage 
the ingenuity of the artisan.
, Which give quite a great leeway 
from a set course.
CARNEGIE TECH is a technical 
school in the truest and broadest 
meaning of the above two words. 
The average man does not think of 
CARNEGIE TECH as being a tech
nical school in this broad sense, but 
rather as it pertains to the engineer
ing field alone. It does not occur 
to him that sculpturing, music, the 
domestic arts, social work, painting
DEAN BROWN SPEAKS
AT M. M. ASSEMBLY
(Continued From Page One.) 
eral readings. This was a pleasant 
surprise, and Miss Harmons rendi
tion of A Woman with a Baby on the 
Street Car and A Kindergarten Tot 
were really funny, and very entertain
ing.
When numerous announcements 
were taken care of, assembly was dis
missed, except the Plebes, who stayed 
for roll call, and trial. At the trial, 
about thirty Plebes were convicted of 
various heinous crimes, and in order 
to punish everyone publicly, a special 
assembly was held last Friday, when 
every sentenced Plebe did her indi
vidual stunt.
NEW REGULATIONS
. FOR TEA DANCES
(Continued From Page One) 
up a program for the various events 
of Commencement Week.
The Campus Week Committee re
ported that a tentative program had 
been formulated. The program will 
be similar to that of last year. How
ever several additions will be made 
which will greatly Improve the pro
gram.
Misses Anne Stewart, and Frances 
Burroughs and H. J. McCormack and 
S. E. Brillliart were appointed to 
serve on the Student Welfare Com
mittee which President Baker is or
ganizing.
The plan for the reorganization of 
the student government was discussed 
at some length. In addition to the 
organization itself the committee is 
busy with the drawing up of a consti
tution for the new body.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
and illustration, drama, foundry prac
tices, secretarial, newspaper writing,, 
and many others, can be included iiv 
the broad meaning of Technology. 
Carnegie Tech includes all of theseand many more besides.
Which is another -.way of saying 
that CARNEGIE TECH gives what i& 
known as a liberal education. The 
students are taught more than to bemerely an engineer, an architect, a 
painter, a sculptor, or a musician. 
They are taught to know much 
more than their own narrow line of 
work, so that when they enter the 
business world, tlieyi will be able to 
play the social ladder as well as the 
business. This because, it is recog
nized that the success of a man de
pends many times quite a lot upon 
his ability to enter society. Many a 
business opening has been acquired 
through an ability to squeeze through 
a socially made hole. Many a big 
trade has received its initial impulse 
on the golf links, the tennis court, in 
the grandstand, at the club over a 
game of cards. A social wedge is a 
great and powerful aid. /
Which is one reason why such 
courses as current history, English 
literature, history, are givento sup
ply that broader education so neces
sary in leading the broader life.
Nor does this confine itself to each 
individual course, but also in the 
different courses themselves offered. 
Students can find in the curriculum 
at Carnogie Tech courses, that would 
appeal to practically every type of. 
man or woman, whether he desires to 
be business man or professional. Of 
course such courses as law, medicine, 
and the like, are not offeredtheir 
requirements are of a different type 
entirely.
Yours for a better known Carnegie 
Tech.
First Unitarian Church
Morewood and Ellsworth Aves. 
Sunday Services:
Church School ............ 9:45 A.M.
Open Forum ..................10:00 A.M.
Religious Worship... 11:00 A.M. 
Young People's Relig
ious Union................ 7:15 P.M.
Wednesday.
Womans Alliance____11:00 A.M.
A cordial invitation is extended. 
REV. L. WALTER MASON, D.D. 
Pastor.
Bellefield Presbyterian 
Church
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues. 
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN, 
D. D., Pastor.
Sabbath School .........9:45 A.M.
College Men's Bible
Class ............................10:00 A.M.
Preaching service ... 7:00P.M. 
Christian Endeavor
Societies ..................... 7:00 P.M.
Preaching Service ... 8:00P.M. 
WELCOMEl TECH STUDENTS
CHOOSE YOUR CANDIDATE TODAY
All students in tlie College of Engineering cut out tliis ballot 
and vote today. Handsome prizes will he awarded on the night of 
the Science Stag Smoker to the men having the greatest number of 
votes on the following characteristics:
Name.
Most Conceited Man....................................................................................
Best Looking Mau in Science......................................................................
Best All Round Tech Man..........................................|......................T
Biggost Hot Air Artist............................................................................
Brightest Man (Thinks he is).......................................................................
Most Contented Man.....................................................................................
Best Bluffer.....................................................................................................
Most Popular Man.........................................................................................
Best Rudolph Valentino in Scionco............................................................
Most Accommodating Man...........................................................................
Laziest Man in Scionco................................................................................
Rules for Eloction:
1. But ono ballot can be cast by each person.
2. Ballots must all go through the ballot box (110 outside voting).
3. Concentrato your utmost to try and place the right man in 
office.
4. In making your selections try and choose a man who does not 
smoko, cliow or swear. In this way there shallbe no mistaken votes.
5. Listen not to Handshakers or Campus Politicians.
6. Vote in a way that will benefit the school in general. Do not 
be selfish in casting your votes.
7. Cut this ballot out and after voting place in ballot box in 
Science Building.
(Signed) SCIENCE SMOKER COMMITTEE.
Your Friends Are There
Where?
Dont miss WESLEY FOUNDATION DAT 
April 8th, 1923, at
Oakland Methodist Church
---------and---------
Wesley Foundation 
Forbes and Boquet Streets
HHBBESiESHBBEfflBBHBE
"Best Paid Hard Work in the World
IS the way a John Hancock salesman described 
his work. He is a college graduate and in five 
years has put himself at the very top of his 
business.
He never yet has called upon a prospect without 
a previous appointment. The best life insurance 
salesmen today work on that plan, making it a busi
ness of dignity, such as any worthy and ambitious 
college graduate can find satisfying to his mental 
needs, and highly remunerative as well.
The man above quoted is the John Hancocks 
youngest general agent. This shows what college 
graduates of the right type can do in this business, 
how they can build up earning power and at the 
same time provide for an accumulated competence 
for the years to come.
Graduation is a vital period in your life and you 
are liable to hold to the business you start in. It 
would be well before making a definite decision to 
inquire into life insurance as a career. Address, 
Agency Department.
XI NX24XCA RE22EGOS2T442 
Largest Fiduciary Institution in New England

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 14, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
PLAID ATHLETICS
Coach Garland Meets 
Tennis Candidates
Expresses Hope of Producing 
Tri-State Winners
Mile. Suzanne Lenglen and Mrs. 
Molla Bjurstedt Mallory challenge 
each other and everybody for the 
womens tennis championship o the 
world; France puts in her challenge 
for the 1923 Davis Cup; the English 
seek to prevent other nations from 
promoting the worlds championship 
tournament; and Carnegie Tech holds 
big expectations of turning out her 
fourth tri-state championship team 
this spring.
The call for tennis candidates to 
meet at the C Club Room in the 
Field House last Thursday, brought 
out more than twentj new men. Coach 
Garland was well pleased to see the 
good turnout when many of the candi
dates had late classes and could not 
get there.
Coach Garland gave a talk in which 
he stated that he believed in early 
practice and not too strenuous at first, 
that every man may be in his best 
condition when the spring tryouts 
come along. It is up to you to put 
yourself in the proper physical condi
tion and it will be the duty of the 
managers to see that you receive the 
proper care in training at the gymna
sium, he emphasized.
The outline for tennis candidates 
during the week will be optional to 
each one but the coach suggested 
that some track work and calisthenics 
would help to limber the unused mus
cles that would come into play next 
week when the Field House floor 
would be given over to the tennis 
candidates to practice arm strokes, 
volleys, and overheard racquet exer
cises.
Plebes Wallop Westinghouse 
TechKiski Next and Last
Carnegie Techs Freshman basket 
ball team added to its long string of 
victories last Saturday night by de
feating Westinghouse Tech in Wilkinsburg. The Skibo outfit won by 
the score of 23 to 16 in a hardfought and well-played game. By 
winning this game the Plebes have 
proven themselves to be better than 
any of the crack high school teams 
in this section. Theiyi have thus far 
conquered every high school aggre
gation which they have met.
Only at one time in the game was 
the score in favor of Westinghouse 
Tech. This was in the first half. 
There was great enthusiasm shown 
by the Westinghouse Tech rooters 
at this point of the game. However, 
the Plebes very shortly ran up a 
safe margin and kept it to the end 
of the game.
Amans dropped in four goals and 
did some very commendable work on 
the floor. Reiter also performed 
very ably and was responsible for 
much of the fine passing work ex
hibited by the Freshman quintet.
Next week the Plebes play their 
final game when they run up against 
Kiski, the only school which has de
feated them this year. Lets get re
venge, Plebes!
Tech Plebes23. West. Tech16.
Amans ......................F............................ Hill
Reiter.. .....................F................. Yomber
Cook .........................C............ McElhone
West..........................G....................Dearbeck
Beede ......................*G............... Obergfell
Field goalsAmans 4, Reiter, Good 
win, Yomber 2, Obergfell, McElhone. 
Foul goalsAmans, 7 out of 9 
Reiter, 4 out of 8; Hill, 8 out of 18. 
Substitutions  Edie for Amans,, 
Smith for Reiter, Goodwin for Cook, 
Jones for Goodwin, Jackson for West. 
RefereeWetzel.
On the Plaid Screen
By H. H. WILSON
Carnegie Girls Play 
Westminster 9-9 Tie
WATCHING THE CAGERS
The Plebe basket ball team is completing a most successful season this 
week when they tackle the Duquesne Preps and Kiski. The Kiski game is 
the most important of the two for the Plebes will be out to avenge the nar
row victory which the Saltsburg boys hold over them. With but two de
feats, by Heinz House Reserves and Kiski, against them, and victories over 
some of the best high school and normal quintets in the district, the Plebes 
can be considered as one of the best Freshman aggregations that has ever 
represented the Plaid.
Coach Beeler has welded together a fighting squad that knows the game 
and has that big essential, team work. A great deal of credit is due him 
for he has been busy for several weeks with the track squad aside from 
coaching the Freshmen.
Among the Plebe players, Goodwin, Amans, Jackson, Reiter are especi
ally worthy of mention and in fact all of the boys have the Tartan fighting 
spirit which briugs home victory. We're hoping that theyll stick around and 
make some valuable varsity material for next winter.
Miss Cook Saves Day For 
Carnegie Girls
Wonder what the Plebes would do to the Varsity? The Plebes are will
ing. How about it, Varsity?
The Varsity tossers sure did make a miserable showing this week against 
Bethany and W. & J. They lacked fight in both games and let the Red and 
Black make them look foolish in the final game. Of course, Luibic has been 
greatly handicapped by players becoming ineligible, but on the other hand 
they have not shown a consistent fighting spirit which can be found in the 
Tlebe team. We can hand the Varsity men a bouquet for their splendid 
showing in toppling Grove City but that doesnt excuse the rest of the season 
which shows six games won out of nineteen played.
THE NEW HALL
OF FAME
ANNOUNCEMENT
EXTRAORDINARY
^Josef uofnami
NOW ON BRUNSWICK RECORDS ONLY
First Recording Now On Sale
50023Hungarian RhapsodyNo. 2, Part 1 (Liszt) 
Hungarian RhapsodyNo. 2, Part 2 (Liszt)
A record to cherish and preserve. Crystal clear, not a note 
lost nor subtlety of expression omitted. One of the great 
geniuses of time perpetuated as only Brunswick Records 
the worlds clearest reproductionscould achieve. Hear it 
today. Plays on any phonograph.
Six Other New Records Just On Sale
JUST HEAR:
Henry Lange (Pianist)
2344FianofluBOFox Trot 
ItufcnrcddyFox Trot
White Way Male Quartet 
2320Como Alonir Ernest Ilare and Male Quartet My Buddy
^rnmtvick
'The Garment Center Buildings 
New York City 
WALTER M. MASON. Architcct 
Drawn by Hugh Ferriss
J1JERE the new architecture expresses itself in great vig
orous masses which climb upward into the sky with a 
pyramidal profilegigantic, irregular, arresting. An earlier, 
conventional building on the near corner is overshadowed, 
engulfed in towering masses of the newer building which 
are prophetic of an architecture of the future which is 
vividly stimulating to the imagination.
Certainly modern inventionmodern engineering skill 
and organization, will prove more than equal to the de
mands of the architecture of the future.
OTISELEVATOR COMPANY
Offices in all Principal Cities of the World
Our Maggie Murph floor ladies (?) also completed their season on Sat
urday night when they held the Westminster lassies even. The girls have 
had what might be considered a successful season winning one game, losing 
two and tieing one.
Their outstanding stars for the season are Dorothy Cook and Jerry Cor
bett, but the other girls have contributed much to the success of the season, 
as well as Miss Bowman, who has had the coaching task.
INTRA-MURAL TRACK
From various sources has come talk of an Inter-Fraternity Dormitory 
track meet for the coming spring months. This has been taken up through 
various organizations and is now rapidly coming to a head. Coach Beeler
is pushing it strongly as is also the Inter-Fraternity Council. It is planned
to have it come in as part of the Campus Week festivities, giving the Alumni 
a chance to cheer on their favorite team in the relay race.
For an All Tri-State collegiate basket ball team. Jack picks the following:
First Team. Second Team.
Levinson, Pitt ............................................F..................................................... Hill, W. Va.
Reed, Penn State ....................................F............................................Jordan, Pitt
Shair, Penn State ................................................................C................... Gill, Bethany
Brownell, Allegheny .................................G................................... Koehler, Penn Stato
K. Conn, W. & J............................................G................................... Fleming, Grove City
Honorable mention: Donohue, Carnegie Tech; Smith, Grove City;
Byers, Pitt; Kendricks, Duquesne; Anderson, Carnegie Tech; Schupe, Ge
neva; Hettra, Westminster; Hawley, West Virginia; Boren, Geneva; Loefller, Penn State.
Inter-Frat. Basket Ball 
Finals Begin After Easter
There are still a number of post
poned games remaining to be played 
in the Inter-Fraternity League. These 
must be played off by the end of this 
week in order that the season can be 
closed before warm weather sets in. 
Team managers should consult and 
decide on time and date.
Any ties for league leaderships 
must be played off the week preced
ing Easter vacation. Powrio, chair
man of the schedule committee, will 
post notices on the Langley Lab bul
letin board as to when these games 
will be played.
The finals will take place immedi
ately after the vacation. Each league 
winner will play two games with each 
of the other two winners. These post 
season games should attract much at
tention as several of the organiza
tions are represented by strong ag
gregations. The varsity season hav
ing ended and no other activity tak
ing its place, the Field House should 
be crowded on the evenings of all 
championship games.
TO PUBLISH ARCHITECTURAL
YEAR BOOK AGAIN
(Continued From Page One) 
sketches and the curriculum of the 
department, a total of 1G0 pages.
The first issue of one thousand 
copies is soon to be printed and then 
sold to the students.
Girls Competing in InterClass Basket Ball Games
When it comes lo athletic activi
ties the girls have beaten the boys 
as they have taken sufficient inter
est to have organized class teams and 
also have formed a league.
As the league standing now shows, 
the under classmen have been going 
better than the two upp'erclasHOH, If 
more interest is aroused in the upperclasses a very Interesting series 
of games should result.
These activities prove that tho 
girls are not lacking in school spirit 
and are ever up and doing.
Results ot games playd this week:
Sophomores 14, Design 7.
Freshmen 8, Seniors 5.
Sophomprcs 22, Juniors 8.
Freshmen 22, Juniots 12.
Design 17, Seniors 12.
Seniors 15, Sophomores 12.
COGNIZANCE
Throughout the world 
wherever there is a bank
ing center travelers' 
checks, or a letter of cred
it issued by the Mellon 
National Bank will be rec
ognized and quickly cash
ed. Both comfort and cre
dentials are assured 
through arranging the de
tails of your trip through 
our Steamship Agency.
Mellon National Bank
Oliuer Jlue.S Smithfield
Ji
Standing of League.
W. L. Pci.
Freshmen ................................. 2 0 1000
Sophomores .......................... 2 1 ,GI>0
Design .................................... 2 1 .G6
Seniors ...................................... 1 2 .333
Juniors ................................... 0 3 .000
The girls' Inter-Dorm teams have 
been showing quite a bit of spirit 
lately and especially last Thursday 
afternoon and evening when they 
played and later entertained the girls' 
basket ball team from Pitt;
The game was scheduled for 4:30
and after the game a dinner was 
served in the M, M. Cafeteria in 
honor of tho girls from Pitt.
The M. M. lassies had the place
beautifully decorated in Pitt colors. 
Cheers and, songs were quite abund
ant and all enjoyed themselves im
mensely, hoping many more such 
parties may be arranged.
Helen Sloan, captain of the M. M. 
girls team, was in charge of the en
tertainment.
AUTOIST! SAFETY FIRST!
Carry spare lamps and save 
yourself a fine! Kit furnished free 
with set of lamps.
Parking Lamps .........................$2,00
U. & J. Timers for Fords.........$2.50
(Outwear five ordinary timers.) 
ACORN STORAGE BATTERY CO. 
4521 Forbes Street, near Craig St. 
Phone Schenley 4545.
Standing of the Inter-Fraternity-Dormitory Basket Ball Leagues
NATIONAL LEAGUE
Iota Sigma Delta ................................................................................ 5
Kappa Sigma Rho ............................................................................. 5
Beta Theta Pi ........................................................................................ 3
Delta Epsilon Omega ........................................................................ 3
Scobell Hall ............................................................................................ 4
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ................................i...;.............................. 2
Sigma Epsilon Phi ................................................................................ 1
Delta Phi Delta .................................................................................... 0
Won Lost
AMERICAN LEAGUE
Won
Sigma Nu ............................................................................................ G
Pi Kappa Alpha ................................................................................... 5
Boss Hall ................................................................................................. 4
Tau Gamma Phi ................................................................................... 4
Delta Upsilon ........................................................................................ 2
Woodlawn Club ...................................................................................... 2
Delta Mu ............................................................................................ 2
McGill Hall ............................................................................................ 0
Lost11
2
3
FEDERAL LEAGUE
Won
Beta Sigma Rho ................................................................................... 5
Xi Sigma Upsilon ................................................................................. 5
Kappa Sigma ......................................................................................... 4
Theta Xi .................................................................................................. 2
Welch Hall ............................................................................................ 2
Square and Compass ........................................................................... 1
Henderson Hall ....................................................................
 0
Lost11
2
3
3 
5
4
.833
.833
.750
.000
.571
.280
.200
.000
.857
.833.660
.571
.400
.333
.285
.000
.833
.833
.666
.400
.400
.166
.000
It would have been a hard gamo 
for either team to lose, so Dame 
Fortune took things into her own 
hands, and decreed an equal division 
of points, and as a result, tho Car
negie Tech and Westminster girl var
sities fought through 32 minutes of 
a torrid basket ball gamo to a 9 to 
9 tie. Throughout tho entire game, 
the words "anybodys game" would 
have been appropriate. Never wus 
there a difference of more than throe 
points in tho scores of the two 
teams. Never onco did either team 
outplay the other to any very notice
able extent. It was a good spirited 
basket ball game with plenty of that 
good old Carnegie Tech fight all the 
way from beginning to end.
There were no individual stars on 
either side, as every single member 
of both teams played her part well, 
and contributed her pro rata share 
in-the moral victory for both teams. 
Dorothy Cook, from the scoring point 
of view of the Carnegie Tech lassies, 
was the onto" one eligible for consid
eration as she scored tlio entire nine 
points for Maggie Murph. She numaged to drop eight through tho loop 
via tho free throw routo, and one 
overhead Hold goal for one point. 
(According to girls rules, an over
head Held goal counts only ono point.) 
Special attention is also duo Jerry' 
Corbett for her great game at sidecenter. She seemed) to bo every
where that her small allotted floor 
space would permit, and did great 
work in relaying the ball down tho 
floor, and breaking up' Westminster 
passes.
Just as was llio case with Carnegio Tech, there were no outstanding 
stars for Westminster. Both for
wards, Miss Carroll and Miss Broth
ers, woro good, and the Carneglo 
Tech guards had their hands more 
than full keeping watchful eyos over 
thorn. Misses Hamilton and McLaugliey at muds woro especially 
good, and to them is duo a largo 
amount of credit for keeping tho 
Hold goals of Carneglo Tech down 
to ono lono marker.
Westminster started off strong, and 
boforo the Magglo PAGETWO could rid 
thomsolvos of their norvouafilna 
wc*ro standing on tho zero end of a 
4 to 0 score, duo to two field goals 
by Carroll, and one foul by tho samo 
girl. After this, Dorothy Cook drop
ped two fouls In tho baslcot Imjnodlately followed by a field goal by 
Brothers of WoHtmlnstor, bringing 
tho total to n to 2, Westminster. Bo* 
foro tho visiting girls could again 
count, Dorothy Cook scored three 
moro fouls. Ono moro point for each 
team was addod, making tho score at 
half time, G to 0.
At tho start of (ho second period, 
Carneglo Tcch started outplaying 
their opponents, and for a whllo It 
loolcod as If tho Magglo Murplis 
would waltz awojyi with tho gamo, 
but Westminster camo back strong 
and ended the gamo In a tio with 
somo splondld playing. Tlio lineup:
Wostmlnster9.
Carnoglo Tech -9.
Carroll ....................F......................... Cook
Brothers ................F................... Hughes
........................S. C................. Corbett
Logan ....................C................... Marlcoy
Hamilton ..............G..................... Graver
McLaughoy ..........G........................ Lloyd
Tartan Cagers Swamped 
By Strong W.-J. Quintet
Coach Lubic Entertains 
Varsity Basket Bail Squad
Somewhere out In Homewood last 
Thursday evening someone saw six of 
the seven letter men and the man
ager of this years Plaid basket ball 
team all sprucod up as though they 
were hitting it up for a party. Fur
ther investigation and inquiry proved 
that this was correctthey wore 
headed for the homo of their coach, 
Ben Lubic, who had invitod thorn to 
be guests of Mrs. Lubic and himsolf 
at an informal dinner, party.
Coach Lubic was desirous of ce
menting together tho good friendship 
that was established between mentor 
and player during the preparation for 
games and on tho trips of tho rocky 
schedule just completed, so ho took 
this means to express his good inten
tions.
Aftor the dinner, which every man 
testified was a real treat, Ben handed 
out smokes to his proteges and be
tween pulls gave an impromptu of his 
appreciation for the support which 
they demonstrated throughout tho ups 
and downs of tho season. Tho coach 
said that ho had heard about Carnoglo 
spirit but was dubious in believing it 
until he was quite convinced by actual 
contact with tho students and espe
cially the floor team, tho management, 
and all those -who woro instrumental 
In aiding him in his initial coaching 
job.
Tlio former Pitt star did not hesi
tate to tell tho boys that this spirit 
of loyalty had encouraged him to 
think of brighter prospects for Carnogio and that when tho new gymna
sium was built, they would havo an 
advantage worthy of their determina
tion to work for their coach and thoir 
college.
The boys thought Ben had praised 
their work too highly, for thoy folt 
that they woro inspired mostly by his 
methods and that should both tho 
athletic authorities and tho coach 
agree to a future contract thoy would 
bo very woll ploasod.
Those present wore: Mr. and Mrs. 
Lubic, Molirman, Dosoy, Mofort, Acting-Captaln Andorson, Mattor, Dono
hue, and Manager Kollor.
Inter-Fraternity Track
Competition Inaugurated
With the advent of spring, outdoor 
ovonts again como forth. The latest; 
outdoor sport Is to bogln Immediately, 
with the Inter-Fraternity track moots. 
Thoso moots aro under tlio direction 
of Coach Boeder, and his object Is to 
havo at Ioast one or two ovonts run 
off oaeh wo ok..
Tho various fratornitlofl should bo> 
gin to got mon In training for thoso 
ovonts as quickly as posslblo, as mon 
who havo alroady Avon their varsity 
C will bo Ineligible for thoso contests.
Coach Boolor will prosont a trophy 
cup to tho fraternity that wins 1:1m 
rolay raco, and a campus organization 
Is considering offering a cup to tho 
winning fraternity of llio moot.
Cortaln ovonts, Including tho rolay 
raco, will bo run off during tho 
Campus Woolc colobratlon as part of 
tho athlotlc ovonts. Those ovonts 
should attract a groat doal of lntorost 
among the fratornitlos, and thoy 
should try to train thoir most promis
ing track candidates for thoso moots.
As thoso ovonts aro to bo concluded 
during tho Campus Woolc colobratlon 
It Is necessary that tlio fratornitlos 
rouso up lntorost to tho highest point, 
and with Jlio aid of thoir loyal supportors malco It a vory llvoly attrac
tion of that woolc.
LEAGUE SCHEDULES SHOW
BUT TWO REMAINING GAMES
It seemed that, all tho forces of 
-fate and the weather combined to 
make last Tuesday' night one of tho 
least satisfactory dates in the whole 
calendar. It was a miserable evening 
and the nerves of the spectators who 
had gathered in tho Field House to 
witness the contest between W..& J. 
and Carnegie seemed to be in har
mony with the weather. The final 
thing helping tc make the evening 
a night-mare was the ease with 
which the visitors overwhelmed the 
Plaid and romped back to Washing
ton with a victory safe In their grasp. 
The score at ihe end was 34 to 23.
The Presidents early hit upon ai 
method of breaking the Skibos five j 
man defense. They would hold the 
ball well back toward their own goal 
until they were pressed by the ad
vance line of the defenders, when 
they would pass the ball to an unex
pected part of the court within easy 
shooting distance of tho basket. 
These tactics did not prove popular 
with the spectators, who preferred to 
see the ball advanced by the ubual 
methods. But the important thing is 
that the strategy, worked, and oper
ated ' only too well in favor of the 
visitors.
The tally at the end of the first 
half stood at 16 to 8, with the Wash
ington boys on the moro desirable 
end of the score. In this period, tho 
Plaid quintet was held to only two 
field goals ono by Anderson and tho 
other by Gibson. - Good work at tho 
foul lino by tho former kopt his 
team in the running. Tho baslcot 
artists of W. & J. showed marked 
superiority in thoir attempts at the 
basket, making a total of six goals! 
from tho field. Fredricks made it a 
two to one ratio by dropping four 
more from the miscue mark.
The lineup:
Carnegier23. W. & J.34.
Anderson................F. .............. C. Conn!
Donohoe .................F............... Fredricks1
Dosey ...................C............................Lyle'
Gibson .....................G ................ K. Conn (
Mohrman ...............G............... Saunders i
Inter-fratornity basket ball rosulta 
for last weolc aro as follows:
National League.
'Scobell Hall 25, Delta Phi Delta 9. 
Delta Epsilon Omega 21, Slgma Al
pha Epsilon 16.
Iota Sigma Delta, Sigma Epsilon 
Phi, postponed.
Plaid Quintet Loses to 
Bethany By 4 Points
Defeat Blamed on Lack of 
Fight. Good Passing 
Featured
Something was missing in tho 
teamwork of tho Plaid quintet that 
was responsible for tho loss of next 
to tho last baslcot ball game of the 
season, which was won by the Beth
any Bisons on tho Field ITouso floor, 
Monday evening of last week, by tlio 
score of 30-2G.
Good passing featured most of tho 
contest, but tho Skibo boys did not 
havo tho necessary fight to buck 
against a. smooth-running team that 
gained momentum with every addod 
basket.
For fully ton minutes after the ini
tial toss of the ball at center neither 
team could find tho bnslcet, and the 
only scores made were tlioso from tho 
foul lino by Dosoy and Patterson. Tho 
spectators began to wonder whether 
they were at a real game or at a prac
tico session.
Finally Jimmy Anderson dropped 
ono through the ring and lead the way 
for Gibson, but Gill, tho towering 
Bethany center, tallied, two in quick 
succession. Tho first half broke up 
the working combination.
Although each team scored only 
two field goals in tho first half, which 
ondod 11-8 In favor of tho homo lads, 
tho crown of onlookers expected to 
soo a hotter brand of ball played in 
tho second half.
Up until tho last flvo minutes of 
play tho Buffalo Croolcors and tlio 
Carnoglo passors played a gamo of 
glvo and talco, and tho scoro was tiod 
twiceonce at. 1G all and again at 
25 all. Tho Plaid five just couldnt 
find thomsolvos, but thoy managed to 
lcoop on ovon torms by tho addition 
of Gibson's six points and Andys 
eight out of nlno trios from tho foul 
lino. Then Gill bogan to pour In tally 
aftor tally for tho visitors and noithor 
tho dofondlng yollow-jorsoy guards 
nor Gill's opponont. nt. oontor could 
follow him Tast enough to avoid tho 
ropotltlon of baskets.
Much of tho count for Botliany 
could ho prod I tod to pot. luck shots, 
for Zook and Capt Gopford of tho In
vading team mado tho deciding four 
points from long distance shots that 
hit llio mark.
About ono minute boforo tlio final 
whistle sounclod, Bon Luble's Moor
men mado a lighting attempt to ovovcomo Bethany's four point load, but It 
only rosuited In several fouls, from 
which each team rooolvod an addi
tional point to thofio alroady piled up.
A preliminary gamo was waged botwoou tlio players who woro ineligible 
for varsity and Coach Beeler's Plobon. 
Tho Inellglblos, under tho guis ol!
Carnoglo Olymplos woro victors by a 
15-22 scoro. Llno-up for tho CarnogloBothaiy gamo:
Tooh-~-2(5 Botlmny30
Andorson (A, C.) F..............................Zook
Donaluio................... F...................Patterson
Dosoy .................... C.............................Gill
Gibson.................. G.............(C.) Gopford
Mohrman................ G...................Shoomalco
American League.
Pi Kappa Alpha 12, Sigma Nu 11. 
Tau Gamma Phi 20, Woodlawn 
Club 7.
Federal League.
Kappa Sigma 25, Square and Com
pass Club 1.
There are two games scheduled for 
this week which end the league sched
ule, although a few postponed games 
have not been played off yet. Team 
managers should get together and ar
range to play all postponed games 
before the end of the week.
Brazora
THE only extreme fea
ture in all the length 
and bredth of John 
Ward Shoesis their extreme
ly fair price. Their styles nr 
conservativ, as collej men 
woud hav them, and distinguisht by a quality of splen
did workmanship. Inspect 
them for yourself.
The John Ward representativ displays in
Fraternities 
March 24
________________i! Ordnrsth Duane treet-NewYurkCiry
Aufhammer & Evans 
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
*
*
When You Think of Flowers
think, too, of Smithour good name and reputation 
as Pittsburgh's leading florists lo your assurance of 
excellence both In flowers and service.
A. W. Smith Company
PENN AT STANWIXLIBERTY AT SIXTH
FLORISTS 
Smithfield 0327.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MARCH 14, 1923
| CLAN NEWS |
CHICAGO CLAN
The next mooting of the Chicago 
Chin will be hold In tho Collage Hooin 
of the Hamilton Club, 20 South Dear
born Htreet, on St. Patrick's Day, Sat
urday, March 17th, at 1 oclock.
Therefor, all alumni In tho Chi
cago district, take note of tho time 
and place 'and do your bout to bo 
there.
 The last luncheon foil short of ex
pectations, and as a result the olllcers 
were very much disappointed, us thoy 
cannot do justice to tho confidence 
you havo .placed In thorn, unless thoy 
receive your whole-hearted co-opera
tion.
You must attend the meetings If 
you really want to have a good live 
clan.
You are slated for a very pleasant 
surprise, so notify I. S. Stark of your 
Intention to be there. His address Is 
.1552 E. Sixty-third street, Chicago.
JUNIORS! FILL OUT A SMITH
SCHOLARSHIP BLANK NOW
Architectural Plebes 
Defeat Sophomores
Win Basket Ball Champion
ship By 18-15 Score
The George XI. Smith Scholarship Is 
till going bogging. Arent there moro 
than three of you Juniors In tho Col
lege of Engineering who aro Interest
ed in receiving one hundred dollars 
freeeven to  the extent of merely 
mffibjgt out an application, blank? 
Blanks may be secured at the Alumni 
office.
INTERNATIONAL 
STUDENTS TOURS
under the auaplceo of
The Institute of 
International Education
offer an opportunity for Ameri
can college students to travel In 
European countries with conge
nial groups, under scholarly 
leadership, and at lower Cost 
thun is otherwise possible.
The members of tho Students 
Tours In 1.022 Included repre
sentatives of (i(5 American col
leges.
There will bo three Students* 
Tours In 11)23:
An Art Studcntn' Tour, with 
an Itinerary which Includes 
many of the groat galleries and 
cathedrals of Italy, Franco, Bolglum, Holland and England.
A Students Tour to Franco 
under the joint auspices of tho 
Federation do l'AllIance Fran* 
oaiso and tho Institute of Inter
national Education; and
A Students' Tour to Itnly un
der the joint auspices of the In
stitute and tho Italy America 
Society.
Full information about Itinera
ries, lenders and cost, may be 
secured from
International 
Students Tours
30 EAST 42ND STREET 
NL-.W YORK CITY
Tradition was given a severe jolt 
last week when the Sophomore arch
itects fell heavily at the hands of the 
Plebe architects in a hotly contested 
basket ball game which finally ended 
with the Plebes at tho top of an 18-1.5 
score.
For many weeks tho Sophs had tor
tured tho Plebes with concerted and 
egotistical accounts of their superior
ity In tho fioor game, so the ultimate 
result of this razzing was a defiant 
challenge by tho Ilobes to a game 
between the two classes. The Sophs 
eagerly seized this long sought for 
chance to show their skill with the 
leather sphere and a gamo was ar
ranged Immediately.
Tho day scheduled for this event 
dawned clear and cold, but soon 
warmed up as the time for the game 
approached. By 2 p. m. the interest 
was boiling over, and the bets ran 
high with all extra cash on the Sophs. 
At exactly 2:29 p. m. Langley Lab 
was rocked by a mighty cheer as the 
iS'ophs rushed on tho iloor, showing 
great form, and in fine shape. They 
frolicked to and fro under the basket 
displaying their manly forms in a se
ries of artiBtlc poses, till the Plebe 
team meekly made its appearance, un
heralded and unsung but with grim 
determination written on their youth
ful brows.
Tho whistle shrilled and the game 
was on. The ball was dashed madly 
back and forth as each side attempt
ed to score, hut iit last tho ice was 
broken by tho Sophs, who dropped one 
In before they could bo stopped by 
tho Plebes. Both sides then advanced 
rapidly and roughly, till the whistle 
blew for the half with the Sophs in 
tho load of a 5 to 4 scoro.
During tho intermission the Plebes 
rallied their forcos and came back de
termined to win. Thoy fought hard, 
and had raised the scoro to a tie 
when tho whistle blew for the end of 
tho second period.
During tho extra five minutes tho 
Plobea showed their worth by round
ing up tho game and finishing three 
points in tho lead.
About <15 soconds boforo tho end, 
Plobo Holt, a four foot whirlwind 
from Braddoclc was put in which prac
tically cllnohod tho game.
As tho Sophs had previously boa ton 
the Sonior Architects (Option II) tho 
Plobos woro ncelnlmod champions of 
tho drafting room, and now hold tho 
title against all comers.
Dr. Baker entertained tho Tau Beta 
PI Fraternity at tea Saturday nftornoon In his offices. The faculty 1110111- 
borfl of tho fraternity with their wives 
woro also invited.
Kilt Fund Campaign Lags; 
Seven New Contributions
Here are some facts that would 
sound humorous if their meaning was 
not so pathetic:
At the present rate at which the 
money is coming In for tho kilts, it 
will take two years to raise the 
amount still necessary.
Nov/, what is your reaction to that?
The personal campaign In Pitts
burgh has been under way a week and 
we are hoping to bo able to report 
some definite progross In tho near fu
ture.
Make your check payable to G. L. 
Til brook, treasurer, and mark it Icllts.
Those who have contributed in the 
past two weoks aro: Mr. and Mrs. G. 
C. Clark, Harry Levy, D. D. Dlmancesco, IT. W, Haller, L. E. Exline, S. 
A. Smith, E. L, Schumacher.
Notice Alumni!
M.M. Alumnae to Hold 
Spring Style Show
Will Be in Recreation Hall 
Saturday, 2:30-5:00
Y.W.C.A.-Y.M.C.A. Cabinets 
Entertained at Dinner
Did you seo tho announcement of 
the Girls Glee Club Home Concert? 
Show us you still have the old Tech 
spirit by turning out for this event. 
No matter what kind of music you 
like, they will have something to 
please you. And then there is tho 
dance in the 11111011 afterwards. Heros 
a chance to come back and find out 
what the girls are doing and at the 
same time see some of your old 
friends again. Don't miss it, March 
22, Carnegie Lecture Hall, 8 p. m.
Castle, R. 0. T. C. Engrs. 
Honorary, Holds Smoker
C. M. Stauft
3001 FORDES STREET
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS
All 11. O. T. C. men in the engineer 
unit were invited to a smoker last 
Wednesday night in the Commercial 
Club Room, Science Building. The 
smoker was conducted by the Castles, 
which Is an organization of upper
classmen of Beven colleges or uni
versities, of which Carnegie Is a mem
ber, that ere taking R. O. T. C. train
ing in engineer units. The object of 
the fraternity is lo promote brother
hood of tho R. O. T. C. engineers.
Mr. R. W. Warren, as toastmaster, 
introduced the spealcors, who were 
Captain Bragdon, Colonel Cunning
ham, and Professor Donnell. The lat
ter kept his hearers spellbound while 
I10 related to thorn some of his expe
riences in tho Philippines. The rest 
of tho evening was given over to re
freshments and a friendly time.
STUDENT COUNCIL
TO BE REORGANIZED
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
Solves Social Kimeliion Olpthos Question. 
Aliy Stylo. All Occasions.
Complete Renting Outfitters 
I toad to Foot.
Any Size. All Accessories.
.Largest' Stock between New York and 
Chicago.
6002 Jenkins Arcado Pittsburgh
Phone Smithfield 341
Q. E. D.
11 HOW me, says the math, teacherand 
when the chalk clouds have settled down 
there are a lot of figures signed Q.E. D. 
which arent O. E. D at all.
Say Show me to the shaving cream youre 
using and see what answer you get. Will it soften 
your beard right down to the base before the 
breakfast bell has rung twice ? Will it leave your 
skin smooth and supple after every shave and give 
you the well-groomed look of perfect skin health ?
Every day men are finding how much easier 
shaving can be made because of the speed and 
thoroughness with which 
Williams softens the 
beard. Likewise, they are 
finding a help for their 
ski n inWilliams that they 
never found in any other 
shaving cream. Try it 
yourself. The difference 
may surprise you.
WilliamsShaving Cream
NotlcothahU\(iecl aw. You on n't I oho Itand tini tulio hanpa iu> I
(Continued from Pago Ono) 
iStudent Council, and as such will 
have voting privileges on the Coun
cil. At the oncl of tho next year or at 
the tlmo of tho spring elections, ono 
of tho assistant treasurers will bo 
chosen as the Student Council treas
urer for tho following year. Tho throe 
romalnlng assistants will carry ovor 
as senior representatives, with voting 
prlvllogos, but will not receive any 
Income as will tho treasurer. During 
thoir term as assistant troasurors, 
thoy will bo assigned to llio various 
committees of the Council, and by 
thoir work will be rooommondod for 
tho position of treasurer,
Tho throb assistant sooretarlos will 
be appointed by tho director of the 
Mnrgarot Morrison College from tho 
members of tho Sophompro class In 
tho secretarial course, at tho tlmo of 
the spring elections. During thoir 
Junior year they shall bo assigned to 
the various commlttoos, and at tho 
end of that your shall be considered 
for the position of secretary. Tho 
two assistant secretaries, who do not 
obtain the position are automatically 
dropped from further association with 
tho business of the Connell. Tho Sec
retary shall receive a certain salary 
for her services, and shall be a voting 
member of the Council. Tho assist
ant secretaries are not to be voting 
members.
The Sophomore class shall be repre
sented by two presidents of the said 
class, the presidents of Margaret Mor
rison and Engineering to act one year 
and the presidents of Fine Arts and 
Industrie's to act the following year. 
They are to be non-voting members of 
the Council.
All committees are to be appointed 
by the president* of the Council with 
the approval of the-members, and are 
to be as follows:
Organizations Committee, (a)- One 
to handle all organizations with bud
gets. (b) One to handle all organiza
tions without budgets.
(a) Chairman, a member of the 
Council, two other members of the 
Council, one assistant secretary, one 
assistant, treasurer, (b) chairman, a 
member of the Council, two, other 
members of the Council, one assistant 
secretary.
Financial CommitteeDean of Men, 
Doan ol' Women, four assistant troas
urors, Student Council troasuror, 
chairman.
Social CommitteeChairman, a 
mom her of tho Council, .two other 
mombors of tlio Council, ono assist
ant secretary.
Advisory CommitteePresident of 
tho College, president of tho Student 
Council, Doan of Mon, Doan of Wom
en, four senate presidents.
Executive CommitteePresident of 
llio Student Council, four presidents 
of the senates.
Special CommitteeChairman, a 
member of tho Council two other 
members of the Council, 0110 assist
ant secretary.
A brief outline of the duties and 
functions of the committees named 
above are given as follows:
Organizations Committee.
(a) To have full charge of all or
ganizations with budgets, check up on 
same in every way, and budget out 
moneys to them.
(b) To have full charge of all orW
The Spring Style Show is an inno
vation in the annual program of 
ovonts of the Margaret Morrison 
Aiumnao Association, and promises to 
surpass any thus far held in Pitts
burgh!
Saint Patricks Day, March 17, will 
be a gala day in the Margaret Mor
rison Recreation Hall with the deco
rations of green as a background for 
the lovely colorful creations of spring 
gowns and millinery to be displayed 
through the courtesy of one of the 
leading stores Of Pittsburgh. Miss 
Jane Fales, Head of the Costume Eco
nomics, will be there and will give 
an informal discussion of the spring 
styles and will have many Interesting 
things to show from her own shop at 
tho school. Miss Breed will be there 
to. Each member of the Association 
is privileged to bring a guestso we 
should have a real party. There will 
be music and tea (of course) and the 
committee has some surprises in their 
program which they are not publish
ing at this time.
Be there, one and all! Fill the Rec
reation,. Hall to overflowing! Satur
day afternoon, March 17, from 2:30 to 
5, is the time.
The committee in charge of the 
Spring Style Show consists of the fol
lowing members: Alberta Greene
Redenbaugh. '14, chairman; Naomi 
Sloane, '22; Dorothy 'Skinner, 15 
Helen Anderson Rush, 10; and Jo
sephine McGilivray Schramm.
On Tuesday, March G, Dean Mary L. 
Brown and Dean A^W. /farbell enter
tained members of the Carnegie Tech 
Y. W. C. A. and Y. M. C. A. cabinets, 
with an informal dinner given at the 
College Club on North Craig street. 
About thirty people attended the din
ner.
Following the dinner, a general dis
cussion of problems of interest to 
both organizations was held, r Partic
ular emphasis was placed on the im
provement of religious life 011 the 
campus, which has taken place dur
ing the last several years. Hope was 
expressed that Carnegie Tech might 
continue to grow and broaden herself 
in this particular respect.
This meeting which was the first of 
its kind held, is the first step toward 
a more intimate relationship between 
these two organizations and it is 
hoped by the members that such meet
ings will be held frequently hereafter. 
Dean Brown presided and C. F. Bow
ers, J. T. Ames,,, Alan C. Crago and 
Miss Smith responded with short 
talks.
EMPLOYMENT OFFICE HAS
MANY OPENINGS FOR ALUMNI
Sheriff Woodside Spoke to 
R. 0. T. C. Last Thursday
3Sheriff Woodside of Allegheny 
County addressed the men in R. O. T. 
C. at 104 Industries at the regular 
drill period. The Military Depart
ment has arranged for a series of such 
lectures until the weather becomes 
enough better outside that the regu
lar drills can be held.
The sheriff encouraged his hearers 
to consider themselves as doing an 
important work and told To put snap 
into their work. Sheriff Woodside is 
a veteran of the .Spanish War and the 
late World War.
Alumni, heres some good news. 
The employment situation is running 
away from us. At present we have 
openings for 35 mechanicals of from 
one to ten years experience, 9 chem
ists, 12 civils, 1 electricals, 3 commer
cials with experience of one year or 
loss.
If interested in any of these open
ings, get. in touch with the Employ
ment Bureau as soon as possible, for 
we must fill them within the next few 
days.
TECH JOURNAL TO
BE ON SALE TUESDAY
FOREIGN RELIEF STUDENT
DRIVE BEGINS TODAY
(Continued From Pago Ono)
East. War conditions have left a 
seemingly indelible impress on educa
tional institutions abroad, forcing stu
dents to attend colleges under condi
tions which would be considered ab
solutely impossible in tills country. 
Who, for instance, would do manual 
labor from eight In the morning until 
five In tho afternoon, and then attend 
classes from flve-thlrty until eleven 
In the evening In unhealed classrooms 
Insufllclontly furnished, and with 
toxtboolcs sufficient for one-third tho 
students.
Yot thoso are exactly the conditions 
under which which a vory largo numbor of European students havo to at
tend collogo, if thoy wish to go. That 
anyone should havo courage enough 
to attend'tho collogos under this cir
cumstances, and with thoso limita
tions to good study, coupled with tho 
fact tlmt I11 spite of tho eight hours 
work thoy aro required to perform, 
tho money the students receive is 
barely sulliclent to keep body and soul 
together, is evidence of the fact that 
those men and women are deadly in 
earnest about tlielr work and that 
they deserve all the Support that col
logo men and women on this side of 
the water can afford to give them.
(Continued from Page One) 
features of the modern power laundry 
clearly and concisely, with the fluency 
characteristic of a Maggie Murph.
A rather startling article has been 
furnished by Dr. Mackay of the Phys
ics Department on the "Superconduc
tivity of Metals, and Director Mott 
answers the question, What Is Ex
pected of the Engineering Graduate? 
"Industrial Motor Control, by .J. E. 
Chick '22, Carbon in Internal Com
bustion Engines, by Lougliry '24, and 
"Automatic Train Control, by Harold 
Bryan '22, complete the list of note
worthy articles in the next Journal.
The third issue of the Technical 
Journal will appear on the campus 
next Tuesday and deserves notice for 
its remarkable growth and improve
ment this year. At present it ranks 
even with the best college publications 
of a similar nature.
JOHN E. KENNEDY DOING GOOD 
WORK UP AT DANSVILLE, N. Y.
MUSICAL CLUBS
HOLD DANCE FRIDAYHOME CONCERT APRIL 13
(Continued From Page One.) 
in reserve in case it is necessary, to 
open the Arts Building to the over
flow crowd. Make the necessary ar
rangements with your favorite dam
sel now.
Assessment will be one dollar and a 
quarter.
Great Neck, Long Island, must be 
a flappers paradise.Cincinnati Bear
cat.
;anizations without budgets and see 
that they are functioning properly, 
have proper recognition, etc.
Financial Committee.
To make a budget of all the Coun
cil funds, and meet out moneys for 
same. Make a financial report of all 
organizations every year.
Social Committee.
To draw up a yearly social calen
dar, have charge of all campus func
tions, nnd assume control of Union.
Executive Committee.
To act on all matters that cannot 
be settled in tho Council, and those 
that neod attention before a meeting 
can bo callod. *
Advisory Committee.
To act 011 all disciplinary cases 
turned ovor by the faculty committee 
and to chock up 011 student discipline 
and to decide legality of action.
Special Committee 011 questions per
taining to the Council.
To oversee all special committee ap
pointments, and to check up 011 their 
work.  Spocial committees would bo 
Campus Week, Point System, and 
Freshmen Regulations.
A joint meeting of the Student 
Council and Student Activities Board 
will be held next Thursday evening to 
discuss the entire reorganization plan. 
The new constitution will be com
pleted by this time and will also be 
presented.
1
Mention comos to us of John E. 
Kennedy 22, better known as "Jack, 
a Woodlawn club man, who estab
lished himself at Carnegie Tech by 
liis services on the debating team, and 
is now reported to bo doing splendid 
work at Dnnsvillo, N. Y., where he is 
now situated.
PLAID GRIDDERS WILL PLAY
FIVE HOME GAMES
(Continued from Page One) 
and of that university have agreed to 
call off the game.
In place of this mid-western con
test tho Skibo warriors will journey 
to Cleveland to face the Ignatius Col
lege team. This date should be re
membered since the comparatively 
short distance from Pittsburgh to 
Cleveland will 110 doubt find a large, 
number of the student body eager 
to take the trip.
Then comes W. & J., Pitt, Lehigh 
and Detroit straight running. W. & 
J. has had)every bit as tough a re
organizing of their coaching as Car
negie, so wlijr should the. two teams 
not stand on equal footing next Octo
ber? Pitt lost a number of their 
varsity through graduation and that 
should be remembered. Lehigh has 
its hardest game just before she 
comes to play Caraegie and that is 
encouraging. Final among the four 
is Detroit, which has never been in 
combat with any Pittsburgh grid-iron 
team. The game will be played at 
Detroit and further dope will be 
published concerning their record in 
the west central region.
There will be an open date before 
the Notre Dame game and every 
player should be healed of his bruis
es by the time they lineup against 
the Irish who captured last years 
game very decisively.
The Athletic Council' meeting on 
Wednesday will appoint the assistant 
coaches and settle the only open 
date.
PURPOSE OF R.0.T.C.J 
OUTLINED BY STAFF!
Reserve Force Being Built Up; 
By Means of R. O. T. C, 
Units in College
It is the intention of the R. O. T. C. 
unit t6 have published every week in 
the Tartan, a short article concern
ing the R. O. T. C. and its activities.
The R. O. T. C. deserves the active 
support of every American because 
it is designed to provide systematic 
military training at civil educational 
institutions for the purpose of quail-* 
fying selected students of such insti
tutions for appointment as reserve 
officers in the militaiy forces of the 
United States.
These reserve officers would be 
called into active service only in case 
of our country going to war, except 
for the fifteen days active service de
manded yearly, and this is not com
pulsory if it would interfere too much 
with the reserve officer's business af
fairs.
The R. O. T. C. training adds to the 
educational resources of schools and 
colleges. It gives the students train
ing which will be as valuable to them 
in their industrial or professional ca
reers as it would be should the nation 
call upon them to go as leaders in its 
defensive forces.
Physical training forms an essen
tial part of military instruction. The 
Militaliy Department will always co
operate to the greatest possible extent 
with the Physical Training Depart
ment of educational institutions in 
promoting and fostering physical 
training. The R. O. T. C. is organ
ized under two divisions, the Senior 
and Junior divisions.
Senior divisions are organized at 
approved institutions of the following 
classes: Civil Educational Institu
tions granting degrees; essentially 
military schools which do not grant 
academic degrees, but whose course 
of military instruction is substantial
ly equivalent to that prescribed for 
senior divisions; state universities; 
state institutions required to give in
struction in military tactics under Act 
of Congress which donated lands for 
their establishment; The Essentially 
Military Schools, designated by the 
Secretary of War.
Junior Divisions. These consist of 
units organized at any other public or 
private educational institution desig
nated by the Secretary of War. These 
are grouped as follows: Essentially
Military School Units; High School 
Units; Junior Units in all other in
stitutions.
Before either Senior or Junior divi
sions can be established at institutions 
there must be insured to the R. O. T. 
C. unit an enrollment of a minimum 
of 100 physically fit males in each 
unit, all at least fourteen or more 
years of age. Where both Senior and 
Junior divisions are established at 
one school, there must be 100 students 
insured in each division.
No R. O. T. C. units, either Junior 
or iSenior, will be established or main
tained until an officer of the army is 
detailed as Professor of Military Sci
ence and Tactics and the school auth
orities agree to establish and main
tain the prescribed courses in mili
tary instruction.
(This is the first of a series of art
icles concerning the R. O. T. C. units 
and their activities. Read it. An
other article will appear next week.)
I Public Sales
| We have purchased 122,000 
pairs U. S. Army Munson last 
shoes, sizes B/z to 12, which 
was the entire surplus stock of 
one of the largest U. S. Govern
ment shoe contractors.
This shoe is guaranteed one 
hundred per cent solid leather, 
color dark tan, bellows tongue, 
dirt and waterproof. The ac
tual value of this shoe is $6.00. 
Owing to this tremendous buy 
we can offer same to the public 
at $2.95.
Send correct size. Pay post
man on delivery or send money 
order. If shoes are not as rep
resented we will cheerfully re
fund your money promptly upon 
request.
National Bay State 
Shoe Company
296 BROADWAY 
NEW YORK, N. Y.
The College of Fine Arts entertain
ed the music and art supervisors of 
the Pittsburgh schools Thursday af
ternoon and evening, March 1. A 
program was presented by the Music 
Department, Professor Tailor made 
an address, and in the evening Sha
green was given.
ZIEGFELD FOLLIES PLAY
MAJOR PARTS IN TpNSORIAL 
PARLORS NOW IN ARTS
(Continued From Page One) 
razor, but it is nevertheless expected 
that they will recover. The ladles are 
still in the best of shape!
Further Possibilities.
Now that tho first step has been 
talcon In this direction, there is no 
predicting just how far the new move
ment will go. In the course of a 
years time we may expect to see 
beauty parlors, manicure emporiums, 
and turlcish baths housed under the 
cultural dome of the College of Fine 
Arts.
"Pardon me, have vou met Mr. 
Fish?
'No; take him down in the pool 
room and let him enjoy himself.
Ed. V. Price & Co.  1923
ONE THING
That cannot be measured by the 
cost is the 
EXCELLENCE OF CLOTHES 
INDIVIDUALLY TAILORED
DAVIES & HUGHES
EXCLUSIVE 
OAKLAND DEALERS 
3615 FORBES STREET 
Next To Strand Theater.
A complete line of the 
most' beautiful patterns 
ever assembled.
C. A. Heimert
3614 FORBES STREET 
Where ALL The Students Go.
Oakland Savings &
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital..............................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits...........................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
Tech Barber Shop
FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS 
Five Barbers at your service. 
Cor. CRAIG and FORBES STS.
= Compliments, j 
of H
Skibo Inn 1
j After Every Meal
WRIGLEYS
Top oil each meal with a bit oi sweet in the form 
oi WRIGLEYS.
it satisfies the sweet tooth and aids digestion.
Pleasure and benelit combined.
Popular styles of recognition and 
seal pins can be purchased at Sing
ers, Jenkins Arcade.
