Men must be -t liberty to 
6ay in priift; whatever they 
[jave in unnd to say, pro
vided it wiongBino.one. 
_CHARLEa A. DANACarnetiie 3TartauA Stride Forward
VOL29, NO. 25CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TEGHNOI,OGYs PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY; APRIL 23, 1935
135 Candidates Vie for 43 Offices in Todays Annual Class ElectionGeneralfefelic Invited To Inspect Carngie Equipment, Work-Fri,
B.O.T.C. Parade Precedes 
Evening Program, All 
Shops Are Open
SCHOOL GROUPS 
WILL TOUR BLDGS.
Guides Will Conduct Small
Groups Through College 
During Afternoon
Carnegies twenty-ninth open 
hciisc exhibition will be held Fri
day afternoon and nigbt, tbe eveuiug program being preceded by 
a dress parade of the R. 0. T. C. 
si 7:00.The afternoon tours for juniors 
mi seniors in high school were in
sisted three years. ago to show 
prospective college .students the 
advances made and the opportuni
ties open in. the fields of science, 
cducaiion, arts, and industry. These pnpils are escorted through the buildings in Bmall groups, each under Hie guidance of a Carnegie student who is prepared either to answer questions or, refer the pupils lo Hie propert authority.In Ihe College . of . Enginerlng, 111 Department of Physics will
license.Experiments Planned - -The Deoarlment oC Chemical Engineering win jiiake quantitative analyses!of common everyday pro; ducts, nn(l the Inorganic and "organic laboratories willpresentrexperlmc^ts ln clveinit,. Tlie chemical iOglneerinp Jab', '.will demonstrate rich prbcesscs.' cis  distlllftftion^and
Teels ot'the' strength'of .'ehst'
models. of the Typart river dam in West "Virginia and the Allegheny river at Lock. No. 9 BS Part of the Pittsburgh floodprotection stiidy.In the Department of 'Metal-: lurglcal Engineering, the. Graduate' Jfetaliureieal Lab.: will present. Irt-, vestlffatioTin of som,^.properties, of melala, such - as corrosion, expansion, and contraction.-.The electric. furnace and rolling mill will be is operation. v
The Department, of Electrical Engineering will display a photoelectric button sorter, a short wave radio set. an automatic motor con-- tfol, thyrotron -motor ^control,-amodulated, .llcht^beant.'.trtltine] plo* lure; a multiple'" uhtt ,biteratton~-8tl railways, a threephase-devolving Held demonstration, and a cathode ray oscillograph. ,Shops Are Open The Forge and Heat Treatment Mon in ihQ basement of Industries building will he given over to work.
Naplay their productsflower pot a and. andirons, ash trays, ><c.. ...A model home'wJli b.compltl finished and furnished -lb: the;Con: rete and Maaontyhop, thwork. <o. be done-by the... students-before he exhibition. - .Work will JeQ..b' elip^n^in '>ta* nine shop, the Layout ftd..b.esiistudio, Typography v'shop.Presa-'
Printing;,,vElectrlcdi
lertels laboratory, and the' Psychol-. 8y laboratory.Jn Margaret Morrison. Carnegie Megc. exhibitions . will be' given in tlie Departments of General Settee. Social Work, .Costume Ecouomic3. Household'Economics, and -Ccre.Mrlai Studies. > v;Water Analysts Explained 'Tlie bacteriological students In Department of General .Science: *)lt demonstrate the methods'used' 11he analysis of water,' tnllk.'aiid V'^ods. including 'the. tests 'for ;ln<|iiBlnal wastes. Exhibits of tissues: I1 embryoldglcal specimens will *,so be on display;'; The'iDepai't-' nent of Physics Intendstbahow rhe Slory of ScerieVxWhich are titn? concerning the development :f ffihtinc. effects.. The' v biplogy*':;10n T,11l experimenton insectsw ^Pbibians. Although plansentirely completed,Department of Chemistry hopes o-liave students: demonstrating Pnygioiogicalchemlcarexperlirfents: 8 six or eight Riming process ,Pectlve experiments.
Soli0? 106 department :o* ->w.- $?k Jhas .a.rran^ed'a .Bpe: 81 exhibit of charts and'plctures ncernlng the field of social work.. during the .entire everiing on. Frlr ilA children's playroom; 'eupersed hy the students of the deMrtment, will he available in room 
hfchildren while their par* _ nr making a :tour oMlie restg* uie campus  
.^/nonstratton of the handfihi ,heing.-d6ne in clubS'
th? J!1t. cainP9 will he given.by, ne sophomore girls In the depart? "I in the toYm ot a puppet show.Continued on Page Four.) '
Publications Offices 
Open During Exhibit
lie inspection on Friday, Exhibition Night.
Members of the Tartan staff will demonstrate how^a newspaper is written and prepared for pointing.
Progressive displays of how newspaper illustrations and zinc halftones are prepared will be shown. Copies of magazines and newspapers published at other colleges have been secured end will be available to vjBltore and studonts.
-fhelr third engagement' for the for 
mat' 'danc spopsrd by Carnegie 
Tech organlziat^n's^he previous 
engagements.iiteiiip --the Intersororlt^i^CT|,^^'^^fGrv6eft'sing. and 
Swing,; '. ''I
, /.The. Sprlng'Porrnal. as,the 'name, 
implies, is 'a strictly formal: affair,
.ppnsored annually by the nra^ons, men's !senior-, honorary raocietyy^ta f)l!'thee)ln^e'.:spcalVale'ndai'' betweenthe lntrfraternity.;B and the tommenceinent.^U'wltl afunction which the 'whole school may attend/ ;:Ticke.ts for-the'dance .afe\'$I'.25 per coiiple, and may be obtained Worn any member of Dragons,?r .. from the rObrjetlan. aBsoclatn^'f-'i acrosQrthe' flril8h'at the :Qy(innas: flee in .the^:XnduatrleeOblldlg. .- i| ehtrehce.te'^chhley'Park^v
Bacciiaiialians 
To Give Spring 
Carnival Sliow
Shining Armour by Iden 
Payne and Rosemary 
Casey Opens May 10
PLAY GOES ON AT 
THE DAVIS THEATER
Rules for Interfraternity 
Sweepstakes are Being 
Sent to AH Houses
Bacchanalians society will produce Shlniug Arm contribution to the Spring Carnival activities. The show will be played iu th* Davis theater,. It was written by Rosemary Caeey, Pittsburgh jJaywrlght, nnd B.' Iden Payne, Instructor in the Carnegie Department of Drama. There wlll.be two performances. May 10 and 11. The Saturday show will bei for students holding Spring Carnival'tickets.
Tickets for the 1935 Spring CarVotaros Band 
Engaged For 
Spring Formal
Dance FilU Open Gap In 
Social Calendar,
9-12 Saturday '
Carnegie's annual Spring Formal 
will be held in 'Thistle, hail,
Saturday from 9:00 till 12;00 to tbe 
music of Fat Notaro and his Midi 
ehJpmen.
Prominenlion the social calendars 
or other campuses, having played for 
the W. & J. Foil formal, the Penn 
State; Spring formal, the. Univ^,
.slty of West Virginia rJuniorprom,> 
and the junior and.*senior proms of 
the'Pennsylvanla^jCoIIege-for Wo  B : 1,U1 U'unuiva;.-^VShinin& 'Acmoiir-ilnev^r-dld play
The price, for tho ntertainment Js. $1.75  $3.R0 per couple. This price in eludes . all functions and .a threedays subscription to the. CarnfvaHan, dally tabloid published during the Can* *
In addition to the..'Coronation Ball and the Costume dance there will be a Tea dance Saturday afterin Thistle hall following the
been completed for all of the.bands which will play at the dances, bin Will Ryshanek's orchestra is ccr tain to be the Coronation Bail
Shining Armour, of Bacchanalian production was first presentby o professional ti oup of players at Locust Valley, Long Island, last summed it'was so successful that Broadway producers bought tho 
production rights and cast the play Broadway.'
-the' opening i dispute betweei the directors and the authors.of th( play and Ihe play was called off. Bacchanalians have produced t
1932 and In the same : sehted a musical revue Over .the Coals at the Pitt theater. 'Last year' "Love Is .Not. important1
iiitv.pushmoblle sweepstakes have beeri'drawn /up and will be sent to nll: df the fraternity houses. There .hav-been no changes. The race Pill be up th road past the Gymnasluni, through Scheiiley . Park and up the :hlll '-i^aat Industries building,-and
People You Ought So Know...
- Julian Munster, .Fraternity Council Head
' V: ^ateiTjities are abiolutely necessary for tiie -welfare of the :town and out bfftowii stuSehts af Gamegie.This /is the Julian. .P;-ManEtep/.^r^ident TDterfreterMitycouncil.In the -future he prophesies there will be fewer fraternities-.J^ere,-there-are now tQb many hb'uses for tlie,'size<of the m^ic-4"tu^ri^trbody. ;T^ Muirnher.J. . ...\ :
::I'cAerfrateTnltyv council should# ;  . .
re.k  .iter assocltlons: tails j to:-see'. 'the reason why any iother organization 'should seek  to
. "I think ,thatthe School au-, thoritieS; would be glad if there
those schools where fraternities have been abolished the few societies
Julian Munster The fraternity system will never die out," Munster believes.,' The ,,future' Carnegie fraternity, Muster claims, will;be more dublike. vut-ofcWTPn men will live at the-club. Town men will congregatethere ' to. participate in the clb. life:- This interest, shown by th .studentB - .who live in Pittsburgh wllt beone of the: big factorsin '.making for -better, cluh. 
spirit.:'-'.: . V'The school has tlie: fraternities 'V^tlie nape of the.iieck. No go.bd %ilf c<iir.a 'fron ithis - contro!..; I dpubt if /the. administration will do anything'; : constructive 
^ipusesi"
for the' 
savs .Mr. Mnster.-. -.
He 'holds' that the . last rushing seasonexcept for a tew irregular-; tl'was.Ideal. A planned rushing orogr^m -more.--.satisfactory. forall concerted. The Interfraternity council le trying to secure the administration's  approval for; a rushing season one or two Veek after the opening' of school. Munster believes-this'-will: be better for the studentsand ' would ;afford the fra) Help fre'shiithe ; prmitorla.It 16- the fraternitys own fault If .it cannot present, itself-. Me an at-, tractive' enough-light to be able'to pledge'men.
Cbuucire '-presidentv claims that fraternities should 'be -^exclusive. He would like-to see moreco-op-.: eratlon ^.between the - hausen in' campus' activities. There should, be more open parties. : Loyalty to ones house Is a splendid" thing'If it Is not carried to the point of hatred for others. There is no fraternity, which takes a man's Individuality from'him. Nor do fraternities push meu unwillingly Into campus positions. .The men engageIn activities-of-their own -accord.^ They become better: rounded through /fraternity - comni#eehlps
> preparing iaud interests.Munsters council booklet about Carnegie: fraternity Hie which will be sent to incoming students next fall. - Carnegie should
time and energies . educating - the students. The ^ school , should^, be. more liberal.. W^:/need move ecoHe'. isbusiness manager . of the' Tartan, has Pitched hiked to Chicago -and ridden Ihe rods with hoboes.- 'He likes the arte, would like -more Little Theater-; tickets distributed.
ated idea of their whichthem to take theirplace in the world alter graduation. .- -
New : Council Bead
Addison Gilmore who has been 
elected Student council president 
for next year.
Annual Cooks 
Forest Outing 
Is Arranged
G. A. Officers for Next 
Year to. Be Installed 
During Retreat
Robert C. Coblentz 36, George 
W. Lamhertson 37, and WJJliai 
Shaitor v36, will be installed 
president; vice, president, and 
retary respectively of ihe. Carnegie' 
Christian Association for the com
ing-year.-dviring that organization's, 
annual .retreat in Cooks CoreBton 
May 3, A, and 5.
Th program for the three days 
iucluds: addresses, by Dr. Hugh 
Thompson Kerr,; . pastor  of 'tlieSh&dyalde^ .Presbyterian , churcij^ ; 
jr;JohnHay. Eweva^.pastor of 
End Christian church; .and ean 
N. R. High Moor, dean of Trlnltv 
Cathedral. Athletic events, such 
as hiking, swimming, tennis,^ and 
znushballt crtmx^d .by tbe-facltystudenit niuahball Earne, will also be 
on th program.
All students wishing-to make-the 
retreat Bhould eayVthelrnames lu 
ihe Christian-association office as 
soon as possible. slnce ;,the. number 
s [lowed t take the (r/p ia limited. 
A notice''wlllv be posted, in the of
fice listing -;car 'assignments, hours 
of. lea\ing, and instructions for ap
parel. .'The:: automobiles provided 
for the trip will leave-from the
tTance-'af~ Administration.-h(dlthe aftsrscan of May , 3 and return 
tim for -claaaes on-May S. Those 
students wishing to take theirown 
;rs may do so;
Ti .committee'in charge ;f arrangenients lor the'retreat consists of Allen E. Rlaedorph, Instructor of physical educatioD and coach of the.- swimming', tni, -Kent. D. Shaf-; fer-. inemictor ofvpaUern shop, and CUfton tiotfcelle itJ71>partment of Printing..
Physicist Gives 
Public/Lecture
T>r. Ernest 'Ov Lawrence,- profest 
n of physics and , director-of fadiatlon .laboratoty at the/tTniverBlty;.oi: California, wlll'speak:,bn the subject--1 of ^Unstable . Atoms' ou Monday e,veiilng, [April 29, in :Rooni 104, Thdustrles,,,Building. The leeture Js-.ppen to.the' public" and is scheduled for .8':'30 p.-:mr  y'Professor Lawrence received his A. B. arid Jtfaeters degtee from' tht University of Minnesota and held a National - Research fellowship at vale-university from ,1925 to 1927.
H_has don most of hfs. research in the striiclure ot-atoms,/atoinlc nucteus, transmutation : of-, atoms, and Interaction of eradiation and
I Coming  Events.
Wednesday-  1 '30-^Tau, Bete pi iiutiatlondinner-^arnegleV rnnCXf'.'/''' Thursdayv .' - 12:-30LSafety Valvo^-R H ,113. 3:30SLudlo Matlne^Three one . ' actplays.; . -4 to. frCwen Tea daflce, P:at Notaro s orchestraThistle hall. Friday7 10ROTC dress paradeTho Cut7:3flCarnegie Exhibition;- Saturday : ..tol2Camede-S_p5tagForinal Thistle.hall. . ;vi.:30MfitfneeT-''Lllldm^'TLittle theater.  ' -SundayA. L. Gilmore 
Elected New 
Council Head
Carl Dozer Is Named 
Vice-President; Rial 
New Treasure*
nmeumest b-sli
CHOSEN SECRETARY
Recommendations to New. 
Group Will Be Made 
At Joint MeetingAddison L. Gilmore T3C, Depart, 
tuent of. Commercial Engineering, 
was elected president of Student' 
council Cor the year 193G-36 at the regulnr council meeting lhBt Tuesdayl. Carl M. Dozer '36, was named vlco president, George A. Rlnl' 36, treasurer, and Margaret' A. MeKeon '36, secretary.. Mr, 'Gilmore, who was recently elected vice president of the Englneerlhg Senate, Is secretory of DellaTau Delta, social fraternity. He is a member of tho Tri-Publications and Tartan sports staffs. 'Before tho new Student council officers assume their duties a Joint meeting of the old and new conn-, cllsvwin be held. At this meetlug recommendations' to the new council will be made."Mr. Dozer, Department of Drama, is president of the College'of tfne Arts Senate and chairman of Bacchanalians, campus week Bhow group. He lias been active in the direction arid - announcing of tho Carnegie broadcasts.Mr. Rial, Department of Chemical
MlsB^McCeon, -Department, Secretarial Studies,'Is a member, of :Kapp *Ph'PDlta 'sorority1 ud the CM,f're'^'wmii*sii"GUliar^~'Sl<j servad as asslstiint'secretary in StudnUcouncil this past'year;' "  
T au Bela Pi Holds 
Initiation Dinner
Natl Engineering Honorary
Inducts 14 Members
'dinner for:the Initiates on April 24. The feuest speaker will he Attorney W. J. Blenko* The Initiation Will be hold in the faculty club room at 4:30. The dlnner -wlll be given, in the Carnegie Inn at six o'clock. '^The -lpitlates . ar^^ J.vJ, ! Kyl^nd 36, B P; Younger '36. It' C. MeMaster '36, L K. Jetter 36, P. H. Wychoff -36, W. A. Klein 36, J. E. Conner 36; C.:H. Leatham 36. J. B. Single 38. E. -S. owarth 36. R. W. Halli ;S6. A. R. Miller 36. U S, BIack '36, And HJMitchener !36.
At. its last' meeting,' Scarab; national fprpfesslonal fraternity;'.-in architecture, elected officers * torthe coming yqear.
ble .37 viceipreBident; Gerald
Student Council ApprovesNew 
Puppet Staff Appointments
L. Van Valkenburgh Appointed Editor-in-Chief; 
David Schmid, Business Manager; Last Two 
Issues Under Supervision of ftew Staff
Lsster D. Van VHlkenburgU 30, Dupavtment of Aeronautical Engineering, and David M. Schmid '37, Department or Commercial Engineering, have beeu .appointed edi-' tor-Iu-chicf and business mnnnger i respectively of the Puppet staff for 193C-36. John Richmond, odllor-IU'Chlef of the present stun', recently mude these appointments nnd they wero ii]l*proved by Student council last Tuesday.Mr. Van Vnlkenbtirgh Jb . a LeBter . member of Del-Van Valkenburgh ta Upsllon fraMr. Schmid; a member of PI Kappa Alpha, is manager .of the varsity football team and a formor
-ment. of Painting and Design, has been named art editor. Mr Robison is a member of Ihe Gleo club, art editor of the Thistle, and the Tarexchange editor.
Thur.Matinee 
Offers 3 Plys
Time for Liliom Matinee 
Shifted to Saturday
, On Thursday sUiderits of the De
partment of:'Dranm >yiH glvo thre'o 
plays-In. the Studio tlientor ;on 
tliird floor, pi Administration build' -lng,ftt-3:S0.-v. .v...v; A.
. The^ first play. "A Comer-of ErigJartd b'y j. -MacDonnld Clark, is being directed by EHzdb^th Levlnger. The cast'includes Ida Blckley, RuthDeiks, Alice .Robinson,-Brlnton Tur* kle, nnd William Herz.
< The sccond piny, "Eertlo, Moenlc. Minio, Mo,'.;ls by' Margaret, MeCurdy. Barry Mulligan is the-direc-. tor, and the cast Includes Sara Scti, jane Francy, Virginia Martin. Aldeh Smith, ..Barry. Mulligan/ and. James McConnell.
Bedside Manner Is tho third play written by Edwin S. Day. It Is being directed by Marcia (ietyf.and in the .cast' are Janet Patrick, George Lloyd, and Portia Matthew's.. Because ot the annual exhibition on Friday, April 26, the usual Little theater mp.tlnee: has been ' shifted .ta.Saturday, afternoon,et;2:30. T^ ^lifty-vto 'ijegiven la 'XiIllbia T>y
Ing the past.: week. The caBt for
Hubley,. Sylvia Llpka, jnne Wltmer, Gergie Etta Taylor, Leonora Uls; Binger, Barbara ICocyan, Ben Yaffee, William Davis, James. McConnell, Homer HuVi, barryMiie&Ti, George Klttredge, . William Canton, Vincent Maselli, Millori Goldbloom, Thomas Koehler, Alden Smltb, Edward Paukt, .Carl. .Dozer,, William Her,. Ralph. Nason, Robert Gordon, Charles Ashbaugh, Brlnton Tnrkle. Malcolm. MUliagan, and George Lloyd.______'J
Hollywood Not Show Place People 
Think It Is, Says Maty Brian
.. * By Rosemary Pierce
; Neither the naive .Wendy that first made lie.r fanions, nor the typfsitting-dpp.OBltei
smiled.' '-'Actresses like a variety of-roleia,, and dislike above all to he dismissed: as. one-track types." - ;
mate Is' Ideal, for one thing. Bat of course If the studios, move, Til probably go where the'y. go.; r,lidllyw6bd )e yery tli^ereBt'if'bbi what is was several years ago, shefrerit on, 'i^The-whole nersonali^r of the town is changing irom an aitiflcial sl^ow place more to a community of real human beings. There are still, some people who .continue sd:.;go iB-/for.-di2p'la?4 ..hut on. the whole there Is a tendency toward calmer and more economic living
about different Hollywood, typesdontas do outsiders. We-see them, on th street and in the swimming
by Adrian, so of courso the mention of their-names has a dlfDerent' significance ;to: us. u-So fair as my favorite' type of person is concerned,V she explained,
wholly' studious, but:a ufcely 6oned-blend of the, two/*f.Outside of:'her .screen work,' she Is most nth)i8lstic about drawing, svylrnmlng. and dancing. ^ Although just how,, she laughed., ''dancing Is .mor of a job' than a hobby, since -I've been: doing .personal oippeiS
Brian's spine, but talking tlephOBe':le oae-of-hisr pet'grudgesi she admitted.ive .neyer.fecelved atiy bad hews-In telegrams; and 1 love to get. them ;, biit when It.eomes to telephoning) I never do it uolees I hare to."- Not so with dogs, however. .All through' our:, cbnversatlon-'
Mary E. WeUnch 30, Depart
ment of Household Ecoriamlcs. has 
heen named feature editor. She 1b 
t memboy of Kappa Phi Dumi, ma 
ride Unm. ami - sudili cimimi of the Y" inot.
Smith '3ti. Department or Secretm'Il Studios, is the ue\Y worn ens editor. Beatrice Archer '37, Department of Painting and Design 
boeii named Ji 
DavidSchmid
J.-ack Tobler 37, . Deparemtn of Metallurgical lCiiglnoerlog, )9 advertising manti
b&r of Delta Tau Delta fraternity, has beeu named circulation manaTlie nwly appointed stuff' will have ohiu-ge of the last two Issues of tho Puppet. The next issue or
f the school year, willap*
Give Annual 
French Flay
Vincent Parisi Directs 
. Gai Marions-nous^
' .Tho members, of tho Depavttnentor Modeni Lungimges will, pvosent 
the,French' piay . Gal MarlonslibiiB'- bjf ^lbert Acrpmant on-Aprll 
fi^andgO.at.^ilCln.tiy^^tudlti.tho^
ter.' -' A matinee-'wTll 'b given on, 
ih latter day at.3:45;-^The depart* 
meut presents mr play. oach-jyearas 
the class project..; The drama, a 
comedy Jn three 4-Myo6ay6 glvfen en
tirely ]n French and directed Mr. Vlncant G. Parlsl, professor of 
Modern Langiiages.-,  -  -
The jilot of the comedy 1^ involv
ed,1 being centered around a widow
ed Baroness, V^ho. in' her youth was 
happily married, and who-later de
cided to bcome a match-maker. 
However her' effort to. create sim
ilar happy .marriages: proved futile 
when the young people chose their 
mates from among .those for. whom 
she ha<l ' other - plans. Furthermore,' 
the . married.^ife -of . .the.^pne couple, 
whom ypl did succeed in bringing 
together was by no means happy.
The cAt Is composed of students 
of all the French classes... Double 
casting of the parts enables a 
larger number of students, to par?- 
tlclpote in theacting and benefit from the study: The cast is as fol-' lows: La .Baronne Challlon, Saraerts; Christiane, Betty OToole'and
Ham Herz  and Professor Maurice L. Carroll; Hubert, Brlnton Turkle and John Robertson; Leon Miche, Arnold Procllchs; Charles-Laverne, Germano  Milan ' and' *. Charles Hayes; Eirnest, Brocard; Walter DerDeyne and James SpeyerXJn Swisse d'Egllee, Malcolm Milligan and John Biickner. - Mr.; Parlsl In directing th'pro-' ductlon le bejng assisted *by Mjsa
of Modern Language, and ..Mr.
Cwens Give Tea 
Dance Thursday
(it Thistle hall. this .Thursday.from ffrur o'clock until six. Pat Natar'ro And his Midshipmen !hiive >ieen en-. eaged ..for .the. dance/: .TKifl-;o^ chestra played  at the Intersorority, formal and at the, Greek Sing and Swlpg,;.and. was;metj.with enthu-. slasm at both 'daqces,   After'.thel; tea: dance theCwens will entertain the. Junior.; and Senior;. Alumnae. Cwens1 ini.Recreation. Iisil; - T!s ol<i^r i{rlfiar'3 iuvitCd t<>-
dinner, and.: an'.: after-diririer get-together. Dean Green and Miss Win-Chester, ;adirtfler:fo^
.tat.^lth'- .lji'. .pih.rl?L 'L
/ EDITOR^' .MEETING '
All Candidates 
May Witn ess 
Ballot Count
Innovation Introduced 
Under Supervision 
Of W. Carlson
RESULT TABULATION 
TO BEGIN AT 1:30
Eng. Scuote Vice-Prcsident 
Will Be Elected to Fill ;.
Present Vacaucv *' 
A total of 135 candidates fir" 
seeking <13 officosin the class elec
tions which iako place,today from 
11:20 to 1:90 in the cuettrtnary poll'v 
Jut; places.. In* the Oollege of liln. 
Inhering a new vice-president. o,f 
Iho Senate will bo elected, to taiie. 
iho placo of Addison L. Gilmore, re
cently numed president of Student/- 
council. ,
. This .is in accordance wltli .au 
elocllon ruling whlcli stutes, .V.yho,;- 
president of Student council, ,'tlje .
A complete, list of the nom| 1 nees for class and school offlcfni..'l will be.found on page fpur. .:;j
 Por the first, time In. recent years, candidates for offices, ara lvited.'to - witness the counting of ;the' bailors; Ayhlphwill take, place In the Clipltian - asBOclutlQii ; cluhroom,: Indiis-.' tries building. The counting w^H. begin at 1:30 oclock today, This innovation in' tlie'politicar system^ at Garnogle was mn<jte-hy William S.: .CarlBon, ohalrman. of - ele]cliu>i'ft4% :- Six. psrsons :who' poMtiohod ;.for' officers ' were ' deiilard ineligible : hecdufl' of 'failure to turh'-their-'ne. . tltlons ln on :tlm. I.: - >; i.c. i1., ^
. Orily;:one,person-la to he voted .for' unless marked, differently on1 ljt,
Wen Paye Opens 
Memorial Theatr^
Structure Commemorated 
ShakespearesWork : \
performance of Antony and le* / patra.'
Mr. Payne lB famil|ar to Carnegiestudents for his dlrectlon of'ghakespearian .plays lh the Uttle theater;: Lastfall he produced. Cbrigreye'0, ' 
-txys'for Lovt ^d.the-.Trolliui'iWd ; CressliSa'of Shakespearevln.the:'Xitr:- tie Hhi^ter3ft At s tfc* of . Progress, io Chicago,;: he',vigolfoW Thomas .Wood < Stevens was iq charge: of. the Shalcespearo theater ^ which achieved considerable cess and which later went on touR^:- The production. of Antony and Cleopatra by Mr. Payne' waB .^ali,: by . one; English ' critic to comping flecoratlve localization ^ith w;hat;,i3 ' thought, of. es Bllzabethan simplicity arid pace" and< VQulcfc to catcfi 
anil flrm^jQ, reT}derlng Bigplflc&ri'c&.^. of' each - kaieldoecoplc chMB.e^ scene .nnd mood.
Dept, of MusicPresents Recitals
%
hM
Sunday evening the. Dspartmerit.f 'F-j of Musicwill present Vii^ijiia Cein;--'-' -^ 36, soprari'o/In a. recilal In the Lit-- tie theater. College of' Fliie ^rta at 30. Mathew Frey wiiraccomt)any ..:-J Miss Cedi on the piano:;The program is.as-iollows:, v . ;
Dobussey;-:. ..Paysage' sentimental:;; Fourdraln.. . Chanson. NorveglenuV
Schubert..... .Das Lied im Grupeij:'-
 MarlSSlI. .Des Kindes GbiMarx..Cornelius BrahamsIVJ. Vick OBrien,....................... .. . .-.. .v.To stay-at hoVn.is beef?: Gena, Dranscombe.'. :, ...Happlnegs-'^: Cyril Scott. .-/.. ;.......From i Afri ?Walter Morse RummelVv^VE--1*^- '
ObservatoryDreclrMi 
'Addresses CitmaiCub
;^-Dr. Franfc iCii-iordsrgy-dire-r^^ tilt All ^h n * ohwr n(or> IH addrees, tn''Cltmas'-:lnV!^t .eynlnV4pH/29,V.a^5:30^^^a fue ilt l1u1> r join ailjolnlug tbe rommone annex.Dr lord n ili 1 rtur* on Th .EXPMd[Bg.VWVerSe.V -Tlckts.»*. ,h purchasedi. ^ ,.rl ChrB.inssocIaoh.prspi able".to.: cpm .to itth'': phonetheiri

---------------------------------------------------

A.D
ariic (farnese ^Tartan
PHONE MAYFLOWER :Writers Row
> Aulpiprali MCBA Editor__
A MODERN PARABLE
Mow there was in the land a great fam* ne; for the ruler of the people was weak. 
And the people reasoned with  tbemsaylng: Surely we shall
NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE. 11 Wert Forty-second Streo'400 North pUchigao Aven
JULIAN P. MUNSTER
__HAROLD J.
Women porti 1 COPY EDITOR:
___MARGABET GfUFFIN.DUDMJV T>. PBNDf.KTON ___MARJORIE C. GREEN
JUNIOR EDITORS: Waltr Adamson, Clifton B<rolelle.. "Evuna CheeGeran. Irving ^Graber^ Emily Kramer.
REPORTERS :StLSis^8Bald*. ^Alphn Black, Dorothy Booth, Toby Crws, Betty Fisher. Robert Francy, Katherine Gerrtbaa. Betty Gleason, Guy Holfertr. Jr., Betty Jane Herold. Lois Horner, Horl/cso Klngnbacker, Fred Livingston, William Lord. Eleanor Lowrcy. Alberta McClure. Sylvia Odle, Roth Pearlnian. Sylvia Ravlck, ' Adelalde^Remliigton^EugjnlB
Albert Schwartz, John Shear, James Slewart, Gentveve Straeaaley, Joseph Thoraos, Paul Watson, Hath. Weller. Mary. York, -Robert ziodinaa. < OrORTS STAFF: J. Scott' Chflrlei. JaxtreB^Hughei,
' 1 Euscne Kerciison, Paul Schwartz, Kjotl Lyogbelm. BUSINESS STAFF: Joe' Alton, Robert^Gi^ner, Jerome
Layton! Bolih MoCuteheon, Donald ^Joort. ^Hirtort
I Supon. Freder
Flser, ' Id. Gandleman. Cl. L*ven, s. even, Mitchell, A. Prondes, M. Roth, B. Westernmn ConmtBi L. Rtnlii. M..TYPISTS: Helen SickenberBrr, Marjorie WeiniMar? Lou Scblsycr.STAFF ARTISTS: C. Sue Fuller, Samuel Lit
i rise up and seek
i pass that-a message of
, CIRCULATION STAFF: Albert 1
A Stride Forward .P
ROGRESS -Was achieved in the holding of 
elections at Carnegie when William S.' 
Ciitlson, chairman of elections, annouuced that 
there would be an open counting of the ballots 
rtiU year. The invitation to sit In on the 
counting of the votes has been issued to all 
...candidates and although It Is likely that all 
will not take advantage of it, tbe option is 
nevertheless theirs.
This should, pvtl an end to the bickering tbat 
generally follows an electionand doubts as 
toils honesty; groundless or-otherwise, should 
.. *le> dispelled.
Previous ejections, although almost always 
fair; have usually had some shadow of doubt 
hanging over Botne particular part of them. To. 
prevent any irregularities from creeping in, It 
'was evident that something must be done with 
the casting of the ballots and tbe counting of 
the ballots'.
 ..Qtie-haif of ihe job bas nojv bees done. The 
jttir'h'a; havlng'a/>ctosed :balt;vis'more dif
ficult to accompliBh. but when it i6 done It willb& the final step in perfecting the system of 
elections. Danger4 of stuffed ballot boxes and 
. campaigning around the polls still exists.
AVstrlde forward, however, has been taken 
 and due credit must be given to the elections 
. chairmen. The Tartan.ls particularly-gratified! 
- Wltb; th move, because it accomplishes one. of 
tb pointfl-lhat.-:it. had .advocated in Its plat-: 
form.
' Hailed.aa a.masterpiece in 1920, 'Pfenc' Moloa r'g ,Llliom' reAriiains,..la 1936,a craCtemanllke little play' with excellent acting par.ts, Ever, since its flrat production, people" have tried to discover in . LU* iom.eooie deep human significance ,tliat:W0uld lend It universal appeal. :Molnai-does -ver: skillfully suggest such. an underlying meaning, but : close! examination reveals it to be nttthldR more, thin a suggestion. ::Villom. Is a skillfully, concocted - 'combination :.of 'all sorts'of .ingredi. .ohts?T&'bit'of social criticism, a bit l Of charicter analysis,  bit of phil;/Os6'phlzingbut,notr)ore. than
dure privation, another leader who is able to discern the signs, of the times, and can guide us, and keep us against misfortune.
And as the time of election drew.nigh,  behold, there journeyed from the east a smiling citizen, clothed in tbe garments of the people, .with a bow of promise on biB
And It greeting went before blra.Now this pleased the people very much, and they thought within themselves: Here is a ruler indeeda man of cheerfulness who speaks of strange new things: of i and liguors; of lands ;
themselves, they sitteth bim down on tbe throne.And stralgbtway lie calletb the people together, and ordered their treasures to be exhumed; then he.setteth up a seer to watch over the crops and divide them, that all might have; and be appointed a guardian for the peoples .money; and he cancelled many debts and delivered up the debtors; and furthermore, he taxed tbe rich that the, poor might live.Then gave be the people rich wines and liquors that they might drown theJr sorrows and rejoice.And when lie had finished his plan, it was good in tbe'eyes of tbe people; and the people loved him. And be ruled for
But.In the accomplishing of the second year, one rose iip against bim.. For there also livedinihat country a braggart with a tongue smooth as honey; and after he bad subjected the people in Ills own slate he journeyed to the city and 6at. among the counsellors.- And it came to pass that he contrived the downfoll of tbe ruler, and cried aloud against the works which be bad done. And some there were that listened to him and wondered tbat the promised
forsook their rightful ruler.And it came lo pass that a. second, rose up out of the land:to turn the peoples heads (a certain priest ' wlio was posIn the name of the Lord he called the multitudes together and preached blasphemies and all manner of lies unto them.Me stopped up to their ears and blinded their eyes agalttst wisdom: and many there be tjit followed him.But the smiling ruler smiled on and did not heed the folly of his people.Now there was at that time a message of good-will to "all nations within the house of'the lord ruler, which was'as a branch of'olive to-the worldan'areemerit->of,j
But when-tbe parchment came before
r-t^Vj.he-^e^^tft^fd^B^red> sayn g : T* Awak;7Boutbt"rsT%epest~ abd 
C. JE. Horizon
AT GENEVA
: first take off' your ar*
ng about tbe futui -Eighty per cent, ardent for the Fascist State, ten per cent, cloudy In mind and Irresolute, ten per cent, for a political and social organization of enlarged -Individual liberty.Virtually. 100 per cent, for world pacification on the" basis'of . the Inviolability, so far. as practicable, of racial, national, and territorial Integrities.These are probably as nearly the lineaments of the young Italian academic mind of tbe moment as one con get.To sound this mind, or any other segment of Italian feeling and thought, is far less easy than tbe like task in France, England, tbe United States. Everyone speak9 with marked restraint, unless, indeed, the utterance be wholly noncrltical of the regime which, .by common consent, has done so much for Italy, morally, politically, materially, in the laBt fifteen years.
Guarded Crltlelsm However, the voice of cautious criticism as not quite Btlll. in the beautiful mountain-bound and sea-bound peninsula, with its steadily rising sense of European and 'world responsibilities. important alike to Itself and to other nations. Moreover, this voice appears to be considerably franker than it used to be; franker, certainly, than it was a decade ago. Criticism belongs to intellectual vigor, especially, young Intellectual vigor; end of this type of vitality Italy clearly has her full share-anced units of "humanity.
turn to the fields. For thus aaitb the lxird . of Hosts:
The sun and the moon shall he darkened, and. thou ahalt be  brought to utter desolation,-lest thou forsake - 
*rr'not-vaii. prophesy;
;--:And spm^' i^theipopieheaxd-notat-all;' - -and aome -of-the-people-lieard'"&'nd "return-:.ed. to their drunkenness; and someofrtfte^: ^.gedple heard and kept watch in;- thjf^elq^ -SI 
Cl SUE FUI^ERlOn Second 
Th$|jji-glit
' By Emily Kramer
THE-SKIIBOHDBO
- Pacifists all over the world 
breathed a prayer last week for the 
success of tbe.Stresa, conference, 
whosepurpose was ostensibly the 
preservation of  peace in. Europe. 
This week the .world qeems in more imminent danger of war than before that series of diplolions. Apparently i ______than pacifist prayers was necessary to make it successful.Although it istoo soon to discover all of what happened at that parley two events of :the past week are perfectly clearthe resolution of the Council of the.League of Nations and. Herr Hitler's pointed re' oudiatlon or it,-. Neither can under any possible Interpretation be called a move tor., peace? Rather tbsy ooint directly to the too well-known situation of dn armed camp," with . tbe .' campers waiting watchfully for an opportunity to spring -forth to. their mutual di striictlon.. v-Wttbout a certain perspective, we.: cannot judge of the relative importance of these two events, .butiwe can see quite clearly tlie direction toward which tbey tend.. , /Undoubtedly there was a good deal of tightening of alliances behind the scenes at Stress. Europe,
persist in them nevertheless. .. almost an accepted fact nowadays that peace conferences meet to roiportion armamentB; the paradox 
completely.Ignored. Even Russia's pleas, for . real disarmament arc growing weaker.'national diplomats scurry about to various secret conclaves, talk politely, sign agreements. All Jt with a mixture of Impatience
places. That It is inevitable ver questioned; Diplomatic ences have become somewhattj clcal, certainly helpless and insincere: Any peace conference that meets to discuss the proportion ot .ments Is undoubtedly inBlnsince It does not even believe In Its own avowed purpose.Diplomats are-.-'sadly in need of somethingmuch more tangible and owerful than pacifist prayers. Hitlers recent decree.that death i the fate" of :all those who conInue to spread .propaganda for eace during .wartime or even dur]g a <-rlEis Is a warning -well worth heeding, it proves conclusively] that all .the talk about a coming t1
That'H-'is'not inevitable, that it can' be overcome In some way Is the 'fervent belief of - those rbb' are slacerely* working :to preWomen make' itf per cent of the
atteppptdf it i tfei?Bmuggl.-articlesi^TtiieT^'enlted -,Stated ?
HOLIDAYS took a lot of the boys and girls back to t,beir home 
town loves ... . those who bung.around managed to celebrate 
with and without . . . reverberations from Clyde St. seem to 
Indicate that the bros are reluctant to put the tuxes back in the 
moth balls  .  after borrowing the partially clean shirts of 
the absent members, the Delts polished on the late winter social 
season with a Formal Easter Dinner . . . somebody told us that 
the menus were in Freneh . . - Saturday night Duke Ellington 
and the moon made an ideal. combination for dancing . . . 
Mitch Mltcbener and tbe embryoBeetle Annabelle Crowell 
enjoyed It . . . Bob Greiner, B. M. O. C. of tbe Betas, still with 
Helen McCrea ... a bright Easter Sunday brought out Jim 
Latta in full regalia to head the-Farade . . .- incidentally, is Jim 
still Cainpeing? v
THE SUN -SMILED favorably on Freshman-Dramat Fran Tlegel, 
seen frequently of late' with Boss Kissel, when sbe landed a lead 
In the new.Freshman production.
SOMETHING NEW in the way of nite club entertainment was 
presented by Marie Motter and Mildred Cox last Saturday eve 
. . . the rotund and highly polished proprietor of the Stratford 
Club is convinced that the. patrons waut classical stuif ... if 
you dont believe it, ask him.'
CONVERSATION OVERHEARD in Margaret Morrisonaccord-, 
ing lo two of Maggie Murph'e loveliest. Bill Holiday is tbe man 
of the hour .. . . and hed make an Ideal husband.
PRIDE OF THE Beta Pis, Olive Roberts, Is reported to be 
engaged . . . ex-Dragon Ira Kuhn is the lucky man .. . . we 
wonder where Ira will buy tbe ring , . . two others that have 
fallen are Kappa Slg. Kay Burns and Eleanor Clemenson . . . 
while on the subject we add to the growing list other successful 
college courtships . . . Jane Anderson-Purlty Paul Pheneger 
. . . Jane Foller-Happy Pappy Allan . . . Clara Weller-Johnny 
 Davis. A stooge reports that other combinations with possibili
ties are . . . Burke-Wettack . .  Goodrldge-Waggoner . . . 
Knapp-Shultz . . . Munster-Dower . . . Daua-Nlchol . . . LewisArcher . . . just wait until after graduation . . . then well see.
Credit for one of the best of recent witticisms goes to Beta Sig 
Irv Gruber, who swears he heard an Architect reply when they 
found him under one of the Schenley tables, "Im just waiting for 
a Side-Car.
AND AS. IF IT ifADE. any .difference, tbe intramural mushball 
games.were postponed because-tbe-field bad not been rolled '. . . 
no matter how smooth you make It the boys . are-.still ..going to 
catch them on the chin.
FIRST TIME in the history of competitive sports, tbe two last 
place teams are/fighting it out for first place . . in the Bridge 
Tournament, with onlythree Houses left In one league^ tbe S. A. 
vE.'a won, buthad to forfeit theli\ victory because'-of . suspension - 
-from Inlerfratenilty council .- .-.so tbe PIKAs and the.S. P. E.i
both tied for. last j 
damn thing.
On< Other 
Campuses
t place, go to toaee /whoa. goln^ -to. -w^n.-the^
HOSTILITIES SUSPENDED
University of Maryland faa-sm; 
Following a week's pitched bau 
lie between President Raymond m6 
Pearson and' the stude'nts of tha University, precipitated bv publication of . a front-page i torial in the Diamondbaek, stadeni newspaper, criticizing the dents administrative policies w tilities have temporarily ceased as both parties await action by thB Board of Regents. 8
In a letter to Marshall Mathias editor of the. Diamondbaek, Dr Pearson warned M&thias that ha would be held strictly account, able for the publication of any editorial or news. ^ items that do not conform to the generally acs cepted standards of decency, wslb taste, aDd Sound judgment."
In his weekly message appearing In the April 1 issue of the Diamond, back. Dr. Pearson stated that he regrets the publication of the editorial because it is filled with fo. eot statements and . inBlnna.
WHALE HUNTINGUniversity of Maryland (MCE) A de,id whole or a swampeii boat" was the motto of old-time American whaling crews, accordo to Chester Howland, noted leclur. r, In his talk on whnle-hunlingher last Wednesday.Howland, himself tbe son of s' New-Bedford whaling captain, sii<r that, contrary to the general belief the harpoon ,is not th^ weapon used for killing  tl\e whale. ' Il ij used merelyto'get a line on'tbe whale .and the actual damage is done by a small, sbarp, spoonshaped Instrument that Is thrown with deadly accuracy into the heart of the whale."Of alt the animals that bare ever lived, the whale is mo6t colos. sal, said the son of the New Eng.I land whaling captain. It is far 1 larger tbc-n &ny dinosaur that letrifled our ancestors.The early whalers have added greatly to - the worlds ltnowledgs of jjogrftphy, according to How. land, through their voyages over uncharted seas, new lands .were touched on and over 400 new l lands were discovered and name!
MORONS ARE BEST-DANCING PARTNERSSyracuse Un i vrily - ( t CEA )  A.clase iircriminology recently discovered that, 'when':-dancing, It '.maltes little ' dlffrbife* *whethr ft' partner is a genius or o . i. Morons, tbe class discovered, are endowed with a sense of rhythm, and most of them re excellent dancers. On the daoce floor, they, appear almost nomai. -;
Columbia ' reporters ' queatloned people on >the streets and found .tbat jlth 0l;sl3t VitiBlfelfeaiifeW collge students Vre loafers,
;b'naturalism and expressionism', fantasy and realism, sordldness and Vpbetry, which in most hands of a ^-.iefls  skillful playwright might have .'become a^xnere tawdry showpiece.' .. Jf we are content to dismiss the ' search for hidden meanlngsi as un^eceqs_ary_and. judgejthe. play 'face.'yalue, we find it to be i i ipg iittle. drama, simply told, incon-elstnt in places, but tecl  -----the' whole j The Little theater production caught admirably tbe essen* I .tial .pathos of this story of a Buda-| -:,pest rufDlan whose good Intentions -Vgkve way to his rough impulses, I V.vjrhose love for his gentle little wife I i leads him to beat her, to rob ber, I Vand.Anally to kill himself wlth.berl . flame'on lils lips.
'"Liliom" offers considerable ditll.v culties:'for tbe producerprincipally; those of malting less obvious the] Various inconsistencies of tlier'play| .itself.' In. this the Drama depart'i^ent was fairly  successful, even though' the first night audience h
aunt Mother Hotluiider spoke with a trace of an accent, the other spoke sometimes with perfect cor | redness and sometimes in the. less slang that would be characteristic of their kind. Llllom, John Kennedy, was finely, and symp: tlietlcally portrayed in all of bis bravado and essential .childlike helplessness; while his wife Julie, JJ&Ui -L.i.ttell,   *
charm and pathosLlliom'S; Toughand Julies spirituality.
Of the lessercharacter. Mrs. Muskat, played by Mary Hubley.
; preser >mpre < CtlvIV
Margaret Goldberg, was as gay and| boisterous , a country glrl as could wish contrasted with' Julie, [ hut she seemed at times to be < consciously coquetting ^with the I laudiencegain favor she did,. but I not always in the best interests of| i he play , itself. - Mother Hollunder; Leanore Blsslnger, was an entirely convincing sharp-tongued but kind-1 ly. old woman, stooped with age; r until she was belied, as she walktbe stage, by a pair of InBlinple ond in keeping [credibly high aHm-heels appearing
less elaborate sets lively designed-and shifted with ^unaccustomed rapidity; the
w>th the mood ot tbe whole th ^lights':;: were . excellently - handled 
i ^The .prologue and fourth In. particular were very fln - projogne with - its shadow - carrousel Lnd> gaily colored moving - throug ^e*prBBed vtbegay carnival spirit 'intended by the author. - - - -
ihe Little theaterproductionTo anxiety...! bring
r* juc^S&ke
: I am made only of the choice center leaves The top leaves are 
bitter, biting. The bottom leave6 are gntty, tough and unpal
atable. My fragrant, expensive center leavesso mellow and 
nch^give you the m^lde^ best-tasDng smoke. I do not irritate 
your throat. To ^anxiety >I^bnng relief. I-m your best fnend. ^

---------------------------------------------------

THE
TUESDAY
QUARTERBACK
BY JERRY HANSON
VElW* LITTLE DOING HEREABOUTS while you were vacationing 
Henrion broke into priut in Sports. StewServed Hof' with.his 
uciure and the story, of how hie grandmother almost*put the kabosh on 
lis promising football career . . Whistler Giolma took ,h1gh score 
Hjpnors as tbe Tartnnthinly-clads won from P. A. A. . . .'and frosh P. 
1 d. Bob iCavlen, the Dormout Flash, nabbed equally laudable, honors 
Andy Krltscher convalesced after the knee operation which will 
a much needed loop star onto the Tartan floor next year ... 
tlodest A1 Broadhead, rifle captain, plugged mightily for the team duriflg tiie dinner hour on last 'Wednesdays Quarter Hour . . . released 
me interesting statistics: the team won 82 per cent of its matches 
[bis year (what other team can boast the same?) . . . the ten" ring 
0D a rifle target Is .13 Inch In diameter ... kinda small at a'flfty(oot range . -- incidentally, ex-captnin Mellingeris claimed the best 
sbot the school has ever seen . . , A track 'meet has been scheduled 
tli Wayncsburg for May 8'to replace the cancelled W. & J. :
Carnegie golfers will play Grove City on Saturday, probably ot 
be Field Club ... An Oklahoma boy, Coffman, bent Glenn Cunningbarn iu tlie Kansas decathalon championships . . . Glen Dawson also 
beat Ibe famous one, in his favorite middle distance . . - the race 
i0wmuch be.low Cunninghams record time
Womens Athletics
by Margie Green
Since this Is probably a letsIk-uboul-the-weatber week in the 
bole sports field in general, I may 
3 well do niy bit of filling up 
as have someone else do it
First of all, to get the most ex
citing topic off my mind,- Ill cover 
vollevball ''doings.. Lib rey reports n very satisfactory oit for the first and only practice so far, last Tuesday. There e just enough players to keep gome going, although a few subitcs would have been a welWmc asset io relieve the constant mental and physical strain of Che flrst" team. The Thursday and Friday practices were . called off because of inclement weather conAli yon Frod.Allen amateur stars join. iorceB with the various M. M. C. C. classes (and Arts School, also, you can fludi aJQj,)\at :the W. A. ... Awards party. * You'llrhave am-' pie opportunity to try your talent, be.lt Good or "badespecially If Its  id. The entertainment will he
based,on a. psychological experiment to prove our theory, -a* few hand-shaken may lead to success.'* We realize tbat the more hopeless you are, the more encouragement 
v[wjM need to .reach Broadway,
etructed not to waste it on the popular amateur, for he Is well on his way, and  can. take a-few heckles.
take place on Wednesday, May.lin the Womens gyni, from 4 Hl6 oclock. Betty Mickey is in charge
purpose of the affair) will be presented to all who have qualified specified number of points .in
. A. pin; 400 points, class numer*
been*'distributed' -(whenever may bo), this award will be celled, because of the additional Jacket award for the 1,000 points.
Carnegie Exhibition Day lo
Local Schools Compete 
For First Time In 
Team .Tirney
mal exhibition, lo tournament will be held the Tartan range. This is the first icirnament of its type ever to be I'tld in the Pittsburgh district, and ill inaugurate a series of itUUona ior a trophy donated by P. Mitchell, manager of the Competitions Division of the Naonal ritflc association.Tl>e trcphy will go to the scholslice entry which wins it the mosl lumber of tlmeg ,,in. nln.f ., yews, ach year, the wlnu<jriof\the comMillion-will be awarded the-posof tlie ci}[> for a period of if, until the nine-year period
fa In the high .schools of this diancli and many of1 the local schools "e preparing to ssier tteanas..S tlie schools are even entering.
e lo count. Eligibility is open any bona fide student of the Sh school entering , the team., tonipeiition wili' be' governed by regulation National.Rifle assowion rules. The.target will be a bull a eye gallery target, 15- |ring, at -fifty feet from the flrS line. Competition will consist 
sli* tareets of two sighting  i ten for record in the . . .ition. The match will-beiJ-l?- one shot per minute . or minutes per target; Um'e-becallod for a! full order at one time? competition
for the high schoolThe sro
ftigfitol We're o Vrt snooty about ounlrov^ ing lnks^chorte-oftfte 
best draftsmen for fhe 
last 54 years. Give 'em 
i tumble I 1 ..i>
CHA5 M.-HIGGINS  COw Inc. Ht Ninth j0 IreohW^N. Y.
HIGGINS'
h American
C.JEHo EHri
rifle  tournament ' will be Sgt .R. C. Sommer, rifle coach of Carnegie*: .crack varsity team. Ties will be broken* by tbe lowest ..individual 3c0>eAr^h^,lyirtg.!teainsthat'teajii' having tho-loweat individual i drajJplng.-otitof th tie-in favtrf of tlie other. This method of settling ties places a premium .oh consis: tency and team strength rather than on individual strength.  
Besides the trophy awarded to the -winning team, a silv medal will be given to the highest
bronze medal each. The medalsi will-be facsimiles of the trophy.
Teams have been entered , foi the Exhibition Day ahoot fromythe PerryHighRifle club, Taylor Aldordice - High ' School, Donnont High School, iMunhairHigh Schbol, Brentwood High School, Taventum High School, and South Fayette
......STUDENTS
WANTED
Five hundred 'Typewriters, all -makee^ Portables .and  Standards, soid.^renteaV fpalred. $3.00 one month, $10.00 five, months..
American Writing
Machine Company801 LIBERTY AVENUE PITTSBURGH ATIantlc 5480 See our School representative DICK HAMMOND_____
Tech Host To 
4Y Champions
National Contest Brings 
.. Stars to Home Pool
d, -litsgtmitg
Tea Out-of-State Branches 
Represented by Teams
,TUe swimming pool of Carne_ Institute-^ Technology will be The scene of the Thirteenth International Y. M. C. A. indoor swimmingi April 26 and championships Tbe championships will be sored liy tlie Physical Education committee. National Council of Y. M. C. B6wyo and supervised by the Swimming Club o the Dowutow Y. M. C. A. This marks the fir* time the event has been awarded t Pittsburgh. Entries for the i
a score of cities in all parte of the United. States.
 -Twelve Events Competition will be'in 12 events, as follows: 200-yard relay (4 200-yard breast stroke, 50-yard free
fancy d:300-yard medley relay 
100-yard back stroke, breast stroke, and 100 yard free
each event, .relays included, permanent cup will be awarded tbe team scoring the highest' number
fourth place, 2. All other will give 5 points to first plo.ee; second, 3; third, 2; and fourth, 1
- Risedorph Referees
Allen. E. Risedorph, head swimming coach of Carnegie, will act as refereefor.the swlmmiDg championships. Other Carnegie persons who will officiate are Prank A. Eyman and PrankW.> Moses, timers, and Charles who will be'Clerk oi V. Kennard, of the Metropoliton club,:will be starter, and Louis C. Schroeder of the Pittsburgh Bureau ..............belief ofof Recreation Judges. ' Allen E. Risedorph will also be diving referee. R.-J. Horton of Detroit, Mich., and Dr. JohnBrown, Jr., are chairman and__rotary respectively of the National Swimming committee. W. T. Rowe, of the. Pittsburgh Downtown Branch,-Y.-M. -C,vA.,.ia-Dl^ector-of Championships.
Many Contestants 
Entries,'totaling 103 contestants
branches, 1.0 of theBebeing <State 'of PennBylvanl^.' '/fearas are. listed from San Franci'sco. Cal., Lincoln^ !Neh., Akron O., St. Louis, Mo., West Side Branch, New York, N. Y., Fort Wayne, Ind., Montclair; N. J., Center Ave. Branch, Pittsburgh, Pa.,' Allegheny Branch, Pittsburgh,. Pa., . Johnstown, Wllkes-iBarre,. Pa,, 'Gfeenshurg; Pa., Altoona, Pa., -Lawson-Department," Chicago, 111., "Wheeling, W. Va., Huntington, Ind., Norristown;- Pa., and Downtown Branch, Pittsburgh,. Pa. - Additional teams are expected to be-entered from Butfalo, N. Y., Washington, D. C., Camden, i6 J., Cleveland, O., and Detroit, Mich.
The preliminaries will start at 7:30. p., ni. on Friday, and the finals at 8:15 p. m. on Saturday. A general admission fee of 45 be charged each night.
as you would choose. 
afnend
MELLON NATIONAL 
BANK
Pittsburgh, Pa..
expensive lo telephone far 
' away friends*/Actually* few 
pleasures costas little^ You 
can call 100 miles /or 35 
cents; 300 miles for 80 cento; 
1,000 miles for: $2.00 
by Statitt tfl 
Night Ratee (effectve after 
8:30 P> M. Standard Time)
Th Bell Telephone Company ol Pennsylvani.
Carnegie Takes First 
Outdoor Track Meet 
In Local Competition
Tartans Defeat P. A* A., 
To Tune of 66-49 V 
As Season Opens
GIOLMA, CAMBLOR 
S,TAR FOR TARTANS
Strength Points tq Close 
Competition in Meet 
With West. Beserve: .
The Carnegie cinder stars won 
their* (first encounter of the seo: 
son, Saturday against the P.-.' 
A. This^meet was only a practice' 
meet, and is an annual event. Both 
teams were somewhat bumpered by 
the absencte of. several of thir 
best performers, but in spite (ft this Tael both teams showed up tb 'a good advantage, ,acd kept the competition keen. The final , score of. the meet wa^ 66-49 iu favor of the Tartans.Meet Reserve Saturday This meet whs the. first real workout for ihe Scottish runners, for due to the handicap which they' have had in the form of bad; weather, they had not had suffiront . practice-tr* warranttime, trials. However, the meet was ;very.neco'8-' sury since the Tartans' have their first Intercollegiate meet with Western Reserve next Saturday. Sovral ot the boys had gone home Cor th Eastern vacation, but a majority of the team was present, and the meet was very successful.Several of the boys for Carnegie wore particularly, outstanding, becauseof the showing which they made. Prank Giolma, co-captain of the team, was the starin'his events, tnkiiig firsts iti both the 220-'and the -440. Camblor was also outstanding,, talcing firsts In.the 100-yard dash, and in the broad Jfimp.Heres the Tally120-yard low hurdlesPeresenyi, T. A. A., first; Dldomlnico, Camogle, second. Tim'100-yard dash; Perlna,Carnegie, third.10.4.:
Tim
___,-M.organ, P. A. A., -first*-Koch, Carnegie,.second; McMahon, 
Carnegie, third. Time4.60. --  440-yard dashGiolma, Carnegie, first; Beall, Carnegie, second; Lud-. ViS.vP: -A-'-A.r tlilrd.--. .aUm6rr5ft.9.
P..A. A., third. Time10,5.9.'if.220-yard. dash.Giolma, Carneglp 
first; ; Dernier,- >. A. A., aecomii
Connors, Carnegie, third. . Time
Tim
Shot putPereseuyi, P. -A. A., first; Hall, Carnegie, second; Boyd, .Carnegie, third. Distance35 feet,
11 feet. DlcusKarlin, .Carnegie, first; Hall, Carnegie, second; Cross, Carnegie,. third. ^Distance114 feet.
A. A., third.- Distance i52-feet, 4 Vg inches.BroadjumpXamblor, Carnegie, first; Porinu, Carnegie, second; Demler, P. A. A., third. DistanceBall Games 
Start Today.
Last Weeks Contests 
Await Time Change
Due to the pre-vacation weather, 
alt those. games ^scheduled to be 
played before today are postponed indefinitely until the advent of Daylight Saving time, which will lengthon the evening light so that u doubling up of the schedule may be Accomplished. Except for tho postponed games, the schedule will remain the same.
 Mush activity on tho campus has ex)>crlcncod a decided case of the doldrums during tbe entire past week; first due to the particularly prohibitive naturo of the wcgthei
Despite the balmy weather which the Pittsburgh district had while the students wero vacationing,
New Tartan Plebe Coach 
Will Fill Long-felt Need
Ex-Pitt Star and All-American Can Boast of Long 
i Exprience as P.igskin Player and Coach 
fPi.'h SeveralGrid-minded Schools
When Tom Davies takes c 
duties on the coaching staff at Car^ 
negle next fall, he will bring with 
him many years ot experler.ee, both as a. coach and' as a player, football career began when he tered Pitt, la 191S and went out for a position on one of the first rate teams in the couuti-y. In th days the game was not so reflnet today, and.umuy more things w allowed timu now. Under tills gimo he turned in one of the best records ever made at the Oakland school. He .was All-American from PUt in 1916. The war changed the
i freshmen when it i
in 1910 Davies rotumed to play, and lu 1920 and 1921 he was named on the second All-American teams. Parke puvls, one cf the better known authorities on tho history of football, does not hesitate to call Davies one of the most versatile.and dependable backs of all time.
When Davies finished at Pitt, ho coached at both-Allegheny and Geneva. The caliber of the teams be turned out there is an'evidence o the help that he can give Carnegie's
somewhat, for there the administration was not in favor of; over publicized athletics. Although ho was working ngulnst such odds, he managed to turni out teams that won about a half of their games. .
At Carnegie Mr. Davies will take 
charge of the freshman sciuad.1n.tha 111 have Cllit Doloway
material coming up in next ye freshman class.' Carnegie football expects to see a .great deal of im* provement as the result of having oxperlenced coach for .tho
WITH MILD.MELLOW

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE T^K
 THE 
CARNEGIE 
P LAI D
& Intital* fo.A vlvwa or opinion* opna4 in th edltoxUI hnnn ._C not Beoeuwlly eMoj*! br th* Editorial Boirdft Hb DW Sclsovl
WALTER J. NOIGOT . Staff:E. E-'-WHITE WILLIAM E. HAKE GENEVIEVE SCHOLTZ DAVID 0. DAVI 9
Contribute: _ ^
Mildred Gr*on ReUaLahr
A Good Choice
Council has done well inre-electJng Arthur C. Grimm to the office of 
President ot Night Student coun
cil. Nothing is more essential to the welfare of the students than n man in this office capable of deciding the beet policies. Mr. Grimm is iuet such a man and council is to-be congratulated on giving him the opportunity to continue the duties he assumed in mid-term or this
^A^worker, a builder and a student who has long been interested in the advancement of the night classes, Mr. Grimm is well fitted for the position and we confidently expect him to give the student good service But the chief reason why the choosing of Mr. Grimm is gratify:. ine is because be can be depended on to say No when asked to Indorse unwJse appointments and acr
tl0The Plaid joins the students in wishing him success and assuring him their sincere cooperation.
The Future
With national recovery being discUBsed every day it is interesting to.'ebmpare the principles proposed lor the future with .those of the past, and endeavor to determine whether these n6w principles are . leading us up the road to a fullelr
us the laws of', gravitation or of i physics. They began with the beglnhibg ofhuman society; .theywill.contlnue to its end. By building^upon correct principles, small peoples, have become mighty nations.; By replacing right principles by wrong ones, mighty nations and beautiful civilizations have . vanished from the earth.: We have no right to believe that we will react differently today to certain, principles  and certain phenomena than yre have reactedin all previous time, orthat the re' .suits of a specific influence will be different today than they have been .-miny times in the past.; : . The future is certainly up; to thepeople. Many unsuccessful experlr ffienis "have' been"tried-intbe his
tory of this, nation.  Our future will undoubtedly, depend . upon ' whether -the 'Airierican: people continueto.be glided -by. the princi-. pies which have < motivated this nameet a need which had been manifestingitself. During tbe pursuit of a course, especially when the completion thereof required a period of several years, tbere is bound to develop an ' Irregular schedule.' Jn order to saliefy these
immediately after tbe regular sipns ended. The majority of the iubjects are given on Monday, 'Wednesday, and Friday evenings which
Saturday evening conflict.At the present Ume plane are be lng formulated for this years Inter
NIGEJFLIGHTS
Qnnger;brbthel^\Jji9, whtfvjDobs for.y:;effl;:/oIdt,v;tian ^lttier  (I  fc^'tvgt-oVir'ttj!-.r-i.. Eal K;
'.iB^'Qwn:v'.^B; ^bie-^^rdv.bf'.^il* hifisborg.1. H cah .fliid a short-cut . 'when driving between ' any . points in Pittsburgh , . . . Lots of people would like to close the book on that Pa#e . . . Big companies are competing for Mac McGowan's new invention, a double-duty stoker which throws , the aBhee back Into the furnace In the summertime to cool the house! If looks very much like'. Ed WbJteV. Invention of a watering can without1 holes for those people who dont feel like watering anything would have to take a back seat! ... 'hosp fnuny noisesin the Arts BcboQl that Gonnd like a contented /cow are merely t boya'in i.iie '^draughting room discussingthe ! new book The Island of Mu . '. ., Bob Graham flew back from Chicago Saturday night and he 'still feels ' upiv the air . . . Theme song .-. lately proposed by a . Carnegie  night student of design' ;Life Is real, life is earnest S; /.'And it might be made sublime .. If we were not-kept busy.Doing home-work all the time!. Professor Schmerta broke .that] - New Years resolution and: smoked ' /' stogie last week.:. . . We offer vAI Bleumle as C. II T.s authority on ^'What the Well-Dressed. Man will;..wearv / The cream of this -weeks crop.- Instructor: "Whathas been done 'In this vicinity . -.preserve, wild'life?;' Herb Stoi -^'.'Weii we; hold dances every Satur-; day nlght at Thistle Hall.** 
FOR RENT
FIVE-ROOM HOUSE 
Bath and.Garage. 
6202 Woodlawn Place 
Call MAyflower 3560
^SQUIBSEL HILL 
BABBER SHOP6828 FORBES STREET
Historical Highlights 
...of...
Night Student Council
Inter-Night. College 
Dance Also A Tradition
Council Gives 
Dance May 4
Prizes Will B Awarded 
Best Posters
From a review of the historical highlights pertaining to the early years -of Carnegie as regards 'the
hoary niche In the activity annale ' our campus.
Another function which has an historical background, thought
The social committee,In collaboration with.the social.chairman and his assistant are^piittlng the finishing^ .touches to the'plans-' for -the coming Tnter-Nlght college ; dance. Th event will be held May 4, in Thistle hall and will bring to a close the social functions ot tbe night group for the current year. - 
' Will Click and his orchestra have been engaged to provide the music for the . affair. These muBiclans have uppeared at several night functions,their latest engagement having been tbe Pbi Mu Alpha Slnfonla dance.. The reputation ofl
has been fortunate in securing Its
The committee has promised something unusual In tbe mauner of decorating tbe hall. Palms and ferns wJH be .used to complete the setting which will be indicative of spring. Novel programs In the form of a souvenir will> be distributed to those in attendance nt this affair.In keeping with a policy instituted last year the' present council Is sponsoring a poster contest among the night students~to advertise this dance. All night students except members of council are eligible to
The posters should be of a'unlform size. 11 by 14- vertically, and should contain the. following reading matter: Nigh Student Council Inter-Night College I>ahce, Thistle Hall, May 4. dancing 9 to 12. Will
The arrangement of the reading matter is left to the student competing ond the number of posters
C-401
E-20E-21E-43
C-54
C-109C-110C-351C-402
C-423C-425C-432
C-4C21-7201-7401-7601-780
Twenty-Ninth Open House 
Exhibition Planned for Fri.
R. Q. Tf C. Parade Precedes 
Evening Program; All 
Shops Are Open
(Continued From Page One.) . Performances of Aladdins Lamp^ 
and the Doll Shop will be repeat
ed at frequent Intervals during the 'ening.
The Department of .Costume Economics wtfl repeat the spring ityle show,, which, was recently glyen.at.Kaufmanns. It_ will be given in the afternoon' at 3:'30'1f6i*' the public; school pupll8,;f:and:'for; outsiders; atrgjOOvinvth^evening.' The show-, w.ill.be^givejif in.,the Mens gymnailum^ywhich will., be decorated through .the courteay of Mr.. Kimberley,;.; Instructor In. the |^epartm6nt of ;trainft.'. y-f '.J. 
Textile 'Analyela^to Be Shown jn the Costume Economic laborar torles, the .sophomor^ students will give' demonstration'sof.; textile analysis^Vand on the^eecond floor studios work In all>phaseavof design; will be shown,..:' 'As in previous.years,,th'e.fresh_ cooking class 'of the Departlng the evening. In another laboratory Miss Glendoh Is planning to have, a nutrition exhibition, and ii
Exhibitions by the Departments of Music, Drama, Architecture, Sculpture, and Painting and . Design will be offered by the College' Of Fine Arts.The freshman class in the Department of Drama wlll present the famous morality play, Everyman, in ' two evening ' performances ' at 8:30 and 9:30 lu the Little theater. There will also be showna problem, lestage llhtin on the flrat floor and exhibits of ecen models 'both on the'mezzanine ffoor-and fn the .exhibition room adjoining the; trance, to the theater. Groups wlll backstage of the .theater where students of the'department
.S, EDi
PRINTER 6170 Monitor Street
The Department i rill display;outBtan mitted during' the past year In the main exhibition room and the corrl>r on the second floor;
In the sculpture studio, regular
In casting and composition.
8:00 and 9:00; and individual classes inthe studios during the .afternoon...There ,-.VlU.. aljo..be_an orchestra rehearsal in the  exhibition ..room., .. 4 riu. -Painting Classes to^Be;-In.'Session -The--Department ot Palntiq^.a^d Design will, have, ^classes in .'paint|ng,: etching, and'hloc^^prlntlngion the third and forth. flo'orfl of the Arts.- building; ^nd.-in.-th., basement the .Crafts <jtepartjtfent-flr|ll work on jewelry, mtal-wr&'' 'and pottery, The work of the industrial .DeeigO classes will ;be on; display in the smalj exhibition room..  SVir the last iot^r 'years, tbe arrangements. for vT*fbltlon;: night have. sbeen vin' charg'. of a committee headed by Prof. Harold L. Lang, head ,of th Department of General Science, Margaret Morrison Carnegie college. Also serving on the committee are ProfCharles W. Prine, of the Department of Physics; Walter H. Stulen. of the Department of ^ Architecture and Building  Construction; i^of. W. 'AiReadio, of the Department ot PainU
Toee who desire Invitation postal cards for Exhibition night to send to their friends', may obtain tiie,. same from the News bureau.
LABGEST SELECTION OP ': TORT ABLE AK STANBASD-SIZED
TYPEWBXTEES$14.95 to $75;oa Liberal Tema . . . Fm Tiiil BENTA.TTPEWKITEB Finit Three tfontht Rantal Anpllas. to Parcha Prie. ; :PORT PITT TYPEWRITER CO.
Peoples0 
Pittsburgh 
Trust Co.
THE OAKLAND 
BANK
IN THE 
CENTER OP 
COLLEGE
Subjects Offered in 1935
Supplementary Session
..May 6^to. ;viy^5,Jnluatxp^jt0/0%,0tfter>v(ee Indicated..
Any student -who washes. information or advice concerning bis 
plans for th supplementary term should call at th Registrars office.
A. Subjects In Degree . Courses and Six-Year Certificate Courses 
Students following a degree program shoula ecbeaaJe one of tbe 
following subjects, in accordance with information on pages 39-62 of 
the 1934-35 Catalog ofNIght Courses: C-109, C-110, C-351, C-401,C.-402, 
-20; E-21; :&43> or Shops (1-720,1-740, 1-760, 1-780), E-21, .E-43. and 
C-3C1 are offered only in alternate years; 1-720, 1-740, 1-760, and I-7B0, 
only every third year.
The work of the first term,of C-109, C-110, C-351, C-401, C-402, 
E-20 and E-21 will be given from May 6 to June 5; that of the second 
tetrin,'fr<uB.'june B to July,5. ..The work-of Jhe first term of C-54, will 
extend from-May 6 to' June 39;tbat of tlje second term, from June'19 
to August . 2. The fees ..marked,] .* Include a $5.00 laboratory deposit materials fee.'I. First Year Subjects 
C-62 Trigonometry, M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, E. H. 120 ($12).E-176b Gen. Chemistry, ree., 2nd term, M.F. 7:30-9:45, E. H. 216 ($9) E-176b Geii. Chemistry, lab., 2nd term, W. 7:30-10:30, E. H. 216, 214
(HD* *^ II. Second Year SubjectsAn. Geom. & Calc. I, 2nd Term, M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, E. H. 205 ($12)
Drwg. & Desc. Geom. I;>bolh terms, M.W.F. 7:00-10-30, Ind. 345 ($26)* , '111. Upper Year Subjects Mechanics I, both terms, M.W.F. 9:30-9:30, E.H. 70 ($12) MecbanicsiII, both terms,.M.W.F..7:30-9;3O, E.H. 71 ($12) Physics III, Re. M.F. ,7:30-8:30, W-. 7:30-10:30, E.H. 209, 211 ($10) Lab. M.F. 8:30-10:30, E.H. 204, 102, 107, 300B (?8) Analytic Geom. & Calc. II, both terms, M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, May 6 to Aug. 3, E.HL 207 (Ind. 210 after July. 5) ($18)English I, both terms, M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, Ind. 127 C ($12) English I,' both terms, same as C-109Economics I, both terms, M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, Ind. 255 A ($12) Drwg. & Desc. Geom. Il.-rboth terms, M.W.F. 7:00-10:30, Ind. 345 ($26)* ^ ;Blue Print Reading, both ternfs, M.F. 7:00-10:00, Ind. 345 ($17)* Slide Rule Practice, W. 7:00-10:00, Ind. 346 ($6)Methods of Organizing and Teaching Drawing Courses, M.W.F. S:C0-10:30. lad: 345 ($26)*;Educational Measurements, M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, Ind. 245 ($12) Machine, Tue. 7:30-10:30, nd. 107 ($6)Forg;e, Wed. 7:30-10:30, lad. 7 ($6) 'Foundry, Fri. 7:30-10:30, Ind. 123, 117 ($6)Pattern, Mon. 7:30-10:30, Ind. 231, 232 ($6) r IV. Special'Subject E-574 Fuels, Combustion and'Domestic Stokers, M.W. 7:30:9:30, May  6 to June 5, incl., M.H.108- (?8)B. Subjects In Vocational Courses For. students who are planning to complete one of' the four-year courses leading to a certificate, the following, subjects in mathematics, physics,-.and mechanical drawing are offered. In e^ch subject the work of the.first termi will be given from May6 to Jun'5; the work of the id term, from June 5'to July 5. Students may register for the__of either term or'for the work of both terms.' The tuition feefor the work of both terms In any subject is $12; for the work'of one term, $6. ERch subject, unless otherwise indicated, is scheduled Monday, Wednesday, Friday, 7:30-9:30.Cn-21 Vocational Mathematics (E.H. 69)Cn-23 Elementary Algebra (E.H. 55)Cn-25 Elementary Trigonometry (E.H. 215)Cn-26 Plane Geometry A (Ind. 251) E-99 Vocational Physics (E.H. Ill) 
i In-l01 Mechanical Drawing A (Ind. 319)In-102 Mechanical Drawing. B(Ind. 319),In-103 Mechanical Drawing. C (Ind. 319)' C-423 Blue Print Reading l aee other sheet C-425 Slide Rule Practice J C. Subjects In the General Courses'For each of the following subjects, except Cn-28, the calendar dates, schedule hours; and tuition fees are the same'as those of the subjects listed above. .. Cn-28 .will continue for  period of thirteen weeks, May 6 fo August 2; the .work ot the. first term will be given
. . ___ _j.vC?26j..l\pted above;Cn-127 Elementa^/hglih-WtrtrV(nd:'17A;R6r . L:E-97 ; -Elementa^.Physics ;AV(E;Hi '111J-."'-..y.-*' ' .1^98 ,;.. El0mentary1"PhySiCs .,B>i(i3.H. 100). V .'. ' :/.-.E-97-98 Elementty.Physics 'ArBj 1st term,'-'same as Er97tf : ;; E-97-98 Elementii17.iPhys.lcB A-B, 2nd -term,.;Bame;'as .E-98;\. *Cn-26..'. Algebra^B,,May/6;t''ugu8t 2: (lMd., 209) .J' Reeisitration will ^e 'held;'durJngthe week f; AprJi;^9 -ib,>,.>Iay :
made after the first week.  Subjects' wlth less.than twelve regiatxants
RQSCOE M. IHRIG,. Director of Night Courses.
.may.he withdrawn.
N. S. C. Re-elects A, C. Grimm 
President for 1935-36 Term
At-the-regular meeting of the 
Night Student counciljon Sunday, 
April 7, A. C. Grimin Of th College 
of -Engineering was /elected presi
dent or the Night Student council 
for the coming year. He will suc
ceed himself, having, .beenelected 
to this office for the present school 
term upon the resignation of C. 
A. Blochinger.
Mr. Crimra was graduated from 
the Zelienople High School in 1925 
and.has been registered.in*tke>Cpl-.i| 
lege of EagineerJog since 192?. He 
is a candidate for a degree and dl-. 
ploma in Civil Engineering in 1936 having completed the course In a record time of nice years. In 1933, he was.awarded his first key for activities. He received his sccond award in 1934 and'is now eligible for the third. Mr. Grimm showed considerable ability and effort to advance the benefits of the night students and in recognition of these qualities ' be was elected secretary of the College
As a further recognition of his activities, Mr. Grimm was called by and has been a member of the Phi Nu. night social fraternity,
Tis Said
THAT judging from rumors, black and black and. blue would be the most appropriate cofora to ' use .for' the Inter-Night
THAT It may be lave June In January* bt .lately looksSpringtime Ilike
THAT the rattling you heard over KQV -last Thursday was only Ed White crooning.THAT one of our more studlous students travels to Mar.' garet Morrison on a motorcycle.THAT J. Perclful Page. Is do. log a. lot of snooping lately.- THAT mlad skeleton keys will be appropriate In ease any of the doors In the Arts areclosed on Exhibition Night THAT this column will be continued next week P. H. D.
Social Group To 
Hold Meeting
day evening,. April 24, at 10:30- oclock in the Council office in the Administration, building. The purpose of th meeting Is to dlscues and -complete the decorating ar-' rangements for the coming . Inter-Night - school dance..
President
Annual Exhibition 
Given April 26
Night Studenti to Take Pa, 
/ Mp . Demonstration
 Carnegie" Tech; invites the dents nnd friends of the NiX School .to -attend the t-A-eniy-ninS Annual 'Exhibition, Friday atiS 26, 1935, from 7:30 to 10:30 ? 3 ,The..three colleges will be open inspection. -Visitors desiring & formation-and direction to various exhibits are requested .to inquire tbe information bureaus located tl.is ntru/. building..., x
at the front entrance to Machini* Hall. Students of tbe Dpof Costume Economics wll Fashion Parade in the M,ei unslum at 8:30 p. - m.
The Electronic Laboratories En. gineering ,Hall, rooms 109 and 110 will be the scene of electrical dem onstrations of electrical dlscbarc Jn gases and cathode rays; photo, in transparent materials; Michel eons Interferometer; and mercm arc spectrum. Reliability 0f piioii elastic methods will be discussed in room 102, Machinery Hall; room 104, of the sarpe building, will be the scene of experiments in Stress Concentration.
Nominees in Todays Elections
PRESIDENT SENIOR GLASS:
SECRETARY OP SENIOR CLASS:
TREASURERSENIOR CLASS:
STUDENT REPRESENTATIVE:
ATHLETIC REPRESENTATIVE ; (Vote
JUNIOR CLASS:
-COUNCIL: sernord J. Kelly. Jtowara h6 mt-p6 jr., Geom W. Lambert son. William L. Latta. Jr.. .'William T. Lord.P-RBSIDENT OF SOPHOMORE CLASS: B.'Wnync Berlin, William L.
^iTDor^d'E.^lXlln^John^Wecc! Jr.. Arthur. L. WUliama, Rnymond W Zi&pler.SECRETARY OF SOPHOMORE
TREASURER OF SOPHOMORE OI^ASS:. Daniel Supon. Manuel TruutanSECRETARY
TREASURER OF SENIOR CLASS: Dorothea Bateman. Sim-P. Criltman. .Mnrv EllotU^EIIznbethWcflt-i .,PRESIDENT OF JUNIOR' CLASS: Dorothy J. Booth. Margaret M. FltscerSECRETARY 'oF JUNIOR ..CLASS: .Virginia E. Filler, MarV' 1^' KalUnbauRh,
TSEASUfiBR ' OF  JITNIOR. CLASS: Clairq A.  Frederick. Katherine SchreJbeia.ESFBVS OS2OSESFVBVM9SL6r Mm[M[ B6 Wundcrllch, Margaret L. ' Hainan, Helen Ei McCwa; .Mary . A. Ramlnston. : ASSISTANT SEC ROTARY  OF jSTUDENT COUNCIL: (Vote for throS) L. Louise Baldy. Alpha Jftne Black, Lola E. Homer, Alberta IfcCture; Ailecn> B.' Schoenlfei?.-Jeufe F.'TJeman..'.PRESIDENT OF SOPHOMORE CLASS: Adelaide A. Agchmanji. Marine
SECRETARY
*r, Sylvia Stivici. 
SOPHOMORE
SENATE REPRSENTATIVE:
, CARNEftlE GUILD PRESIDENT: .Beatrlco L,
.VICE PRESIDENT: JesaJc G 
SECRETARY: Hlnda R; C
TREASURER : ' Margaret A. It!
 SBCRBTARY - TREAS URER :
VICE PRESIDENT; Evfrlyn J. Ltlflw, SECRETARY OF SENIOR CLASS: Uyce L. Philpott TREASURER OF SENIOR CLASS: 
' ATHLETIC REPRESENTATIVE: Lori
. PP.E^IDENT...OF JUNIOR < vm^.Pi^Sloturn^^,.. 
'SECRETARY^^F JIWIOR I
PRESIDENTSOPHOMBBCLASS;
Ue PRESIDENT OF SOPHOMOHB
s.CLASS: Rcgli
SECRETARY ^OF^SOPHOMOEE 
-/TREASURER' OF - SOPHOMOHB
"Sure, enjoy yoursalf," 
said J m Hi a ding 
good c garetteI was working way late at the 
office one night and ran out of. cigarettes. 
When Jim the watchman came through 
ror a smoke.
"Sure, says Jim, and be handed 
over a pack of Chesterfields. "Go ahead, 
Mr. Kent, take three or four.
Jim said hed smoked a lot of ciga
rettes in his time, but hed put .Chester
field up in front of any of em ivhen 
it came to taste.
... "and they aint a bit strong 
either, is the way Jim put it.
That was the first Chesterfield I 
ever smoked. And Im right there wtth 
him, too, when he says its a ding 
gQpd cigarette.
Peop JoCvJo'(rut'<drcnd~(P/teo'fctc/
t IMI. fiTT * Um TatMB ctv
