>
Stalin's Death 
Arouses 
National InterestSee Page 2
Shakespeare Plays 
Open 
In Little TheaterN 
ort Page 3
VOL. 46No. 18CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYTUES., MARCH 10, 1953
Mermen Win 3rd Straight Penn-Ohio
Scotch n Soda Banned 
From Televising Show
Administration Fears Bad Publicity;
Claims Show Not Good Enough
by Fred Sonnenberg
Probably the last chance for Carnegie Techs musical 
comedy club, Scotch n Soda, to gain back .the national 
recognition it lost when the drama department issued its 
notorious 1948 ban on drama students participating in the
Clubs productions was lost last#---------------------------------------------
week. A faculty and administra -
tive committee said No to 
Scotch n Sodas request to .sign 
a contract permitting Shoot the 
Works to appear on a national 
TV program.
The Ward-Villani Productions, 
Inc. had offered to sink $18,000 in
to the filming and preparing of 
this years show to appear, along 
with the shows of 12 other col
leges, on a series of TV programs 
this summer. Techs proportion of 
the time would have been one 
hour and would have cost the Club 
nothing. Little extra time would 
have been required to complete 
the filming after the show was 
read: for the stage.
Now, with this turn of events, 
Scotch n Soda, which used to be 
regarded among the top college 
productions in the country, will 
suffer a severe loss of prestige 
when the other college musicals 
are shown to a national audience 
this summer. Much of the public
ity, which Carnegie Tech normally 
works for so hard and spends a 
great sum, could have been gotten 
[Continued on page 3]
Scholarships 
Awarded Girls
The awarding of the Parry 
Memorial Book Scholarship came 
as a complete surprise to six Mar
garet Morrison seniors last week. 
Every year the Alumnae Associa
tion of Margaret Morrison pre
sents a $25.00 check to each eli
gible girl with the provision that 
the entire sum be spent on books. 
This year Gretchen Arnold, Janet 
DeFazio, Ruth Cooper, June Miles, 
Linda Patterson, and Virginia 
Somerville received these scholar
ships.
These girls were chosen by the 
heads of the various departments 
and Dean Alexander on the basis 
of high scholarship and a sincere 
interest in literature. Miss Spen
cer, who attributes her career 
in English to the encouragement 
of Miss Parry, is chairman of the 
Award procedure on campus.
[Continued on page 2]
Rabbi Stone Is Main Speaker 
For Religious Discussion Week
Highlighting the campus-wide observance of Religious Discussion 
week, Mar. 16 to 21, will be a speech given by Rabbi Earl S. Stone 
on the topic Religion in the Family at the 11:30 a.m. chapel on 
Tuesday. Rabbi Stone is now serving as Assistant Rabbi at The
Temple in Cleveland, Ohio, and#----------------------------------------------------
holds the rank of Major in the 
United States Army Reserve 
Corps.
Speakers Listed
He entered the United States 
Army in October 1941, becoming 
the first Jewish Chaplain to enter 
the European theater. He partici
pated in the invasion of northern 
Africa, Sicily, and southern
Nixon
Through the courtesy of the 
Nixon theatre, special student 
rates are available for Mon
day and Tuesday evening per
formances of the legitimate 
theatre productions that are 
presented. >
Any student wishing to take 
advantage of this opportunity 
must first sign the list in the 
drama department office be
fore 4:30 on any day of the 
week prior to the desired eve
ning.
France, as well as in the campaigns 
in Tunisia, Italy, and France. He 
received the Presidential Unit ci
tation, six battle stars, three 
bronze arrows, and the Bronze 
Star medal.
. Also observing the week are 
about 25 organizations, who are 
devoting a meeting to a speaker 
or a discussion on Religion in 
the Family. Some of the local 
speakers invited to date are the 
Reverends Hugh Clark, L. B. 
Mosely, J. C. Henry, H. C. Scharfe, 
E. T. Knous, A. D. Rollit, F. Schuman, Irving Murray, R a b b i e 
Kieval, and Father E. S. Grundler. 
Many of these meetings will be 
opened to interested outsiders.
Others Scheduled.
The YMCA, with Skip McLean 
as chairman, has acted as the co
ordinator of the entire program, 
arranging for all of the individual 
meetings, as well as for the main 
chapel. The large majority of stu
dents will be included in at least 
one meeting.
Scholarships
Scholarship applications for 
the academic year 1953-54 are 
now available in the Dean of 
Mens office. They are to be 
returned no later than April 
10, 1953.
Into the Deep
Mermen swim to Penn-Ohio title
Sororities Pledge 66 
As Rushing Concludes
Last Monday climaxed a month of formal rushing by the seven 
Tech sororities. Mrs. Dickinson, acting Dean of Women, distributed 
66 bids to the girls, most of whom had been waiting in line over 
an hour to receive the invitations ?-----------;---------------------------------------
Tartans Rack Up 77; 
Case Second With 50
Last Saturday, Techs undefeated swimming team put a perfect 
ending on a perfect season by walking (swimming) away with
their third straight Penn-Ohio college swimming association cham
pionship with a 77 point victory. 
Case Tech of Cleveland was 
second with 50 points and Alle
gheny followed to cop third. 
Three conference records and one 
pool record fell. Ed Matter of 
Case broke both the conference 
and pool records in the 200 yard 
backstroke with a time of 2:28.6. 
The Tartan medley relay team of 
Counter, Aiken, and Kramer broke 
their own meet record with a 
3:12.\ effort. Wagner of West
minster set the third record of 
the day with a time of 2:34.5 m 
the 200 yard breaststroke.
Six First Places 
Six first places, including both 
relays, gave Tech its high score. 
Freshman Dan Guz won the 50 
and 100 yard dashes and also was 
lead off man in the freestyle re
lay. Captain Dick Kramer also 
earned three gold medals. He won 
the 150 individual medley and 
anchored both relays. Senior Bob 
Weddell finished third in the in
dividual medley, while Bob 
Coulter placed second in the 200 
yard backstroke.
Duncan Wins Diving 
For the fourth time in as many 
years, Grey Duncan outclassed hits 
diving competition to give the 
Tartans their other place. He, 
[Continued on page 5]
The new system of rushing sec
ond-semester freshmen instead of 
first-semester sophomores was in
itiated this year by PanHell, under 
the leadership of Betty Hurd, rush 
chairman.
Two representatives from the 
Pittsburgh PanHell group were 
present at the matching of bids on 
Monday.
The names of those women now 
pledging follows:
Alpha Epsilon PhiJoan Goltsman, Joan Newman,. Sara Kellins, 
Ruth Rand, Rachel Katzin, Elaine 
Galanis, Pitsa Theodore, Marcia 
Goldstein.
Chi OmegaCathy Andre, Sus
an Armstrong, Virginia Cronin, 
Norma Dils, JoAnne Corwin, Nan
cy Fee, Edith Coyle, Anne Barnes, 
Jacqueline Connolly, Carolyn Gor
don, Mario Snyder, Margaret 
Kuhn, Nancy Cole, Mary Langdon, 
Delores Prus, Carole Julian, Janet 
Bielsky.
Delta Delta Delta  Eleanor 
Meade, Mary Birch, Mary Balch, 
Pat Maue, Mary Tinker, Bevei'ly 
Wolff, Barb Mitchell, Amity Doering, Jo Forsythe.
Delta Gamma  Nancy Bognar, 
Shirley Mutch, Jean Touri, BarM or tar Board
The Mortar Board party for 
prospective, eligible members 
will be held at the Carnegie 
Union, Sunday, March 15. 2 
to 4 p.m.
bara Lascher, Eileen Cerutti, Pat 
Hoyer, Peggy Heatley, Joan Schell, 
Janet Bishop.
Kappa Alpha Theta  Teena 
Stern, Barbara Fady, Betty Dun
lap, Jean McCain, Carol Hoerger, 
Jo Ann Pickett, * Claire Lawler, 
Barbara Ley, Suzi Murdock, Ann 
Schietinger, Joan Weber, Shirley 
Wilson.
Kappa Kappa GammaMichael 
Pollock, Janet McPeak, Barbara 
Stull, Suzanne Treon, Mollie Rudy, 
Margaret Forrester, Sue Hayes, 
Sylvia Fasick, Jo Ann Gastmeyer.
Sigma KappaHelen Eckbreth, 
Anne Houggy.
Evening Council 
Sponsors Dance, 
All Are Invited
The Student Council hopes to 
bring together evening and day 
school students and their friends 
at the Springtime dance, April 11. 
The affair begins at 8:30 and con
tinues until 12:00 p.m. It is being 
held at Thistle hall, and is the 
only social affair on campus 
scheduled for that eveningso. 
fellows* if you have a date and 
$1.75, tickets cafi be purchased in 
the Registrars office or from any 
member of Student Council. Soc
ial Chairman Ken Pore and Ray 
Schwalm, his able assistant, are 
asking for every ones cooperation 
in making this affair the biggest 
yet. Remember, everyone is wel
come. *
Cameron Choir 
Plans Concert
The Cameron Choir concert will 
be presented*on Friday, March 20, 
at 8:30 p.m. in Carnegie Music 
Hall.
Richard L. Camp, director of 
the Choir, will be assisted by the 
accompanist and student director. 
Dale Alexy.
The mixed group will sing a 
variety of religious and semiclassical numbers as well as sev
eral novelty tunes. A medley from 
Oklahoma, and Pasestrinas 
Alma Redemptoris Mater will 
be among the pieces featured. The 
program will also include an in
strumental selection, vocal solos, 
and seperate performances by the 
men and women.
The membership of the Choir 
includes representatives of Mar
garet Morrison, Fine Arts, Engi
neering and Science, and Hum
anistic and Social Studies. There 
will be 55 students singing in the 
concert, 33 women and 22 men.
Keys
Students feeling they are 
eligible to receive activities 
keys this semester should ob
tain applications for same in 
the Dean of Mens Office. Only 
upperclassmen are eligible for 
this award which will be 
made after the approval of the 
points and keys committee of 
Student Council. All applica
tions must be fiHed out and re
turned to the Dean of Stu
dents Office by 4:30 p.m. Wed
nesday. Anril 1. 1953.

---------------------------------------------------

*age 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, March 10, 1953
Stalin Is Death Leaves Big 
Gap In Soviet Hierarchy
by Professor Thomas T. Helde
The death of Premier Joseph Stalin has, of course, placed one 
question foremost in peoples minds: What will be the effect of 
Stalins death upon the international situation? The problems of 
satisfactorily answering such a question are well illustrated by 
quotations from two dispatches, appearing side by side on the front 
page of the Pittsburgh Press last Wednesday,- from Chicago Daily 
News foreign service correspondents in Europe.
The Paris reporter said, Except for the Communists, everybody 
accepted it (news of Stalins illness) as the biggest news since the 
World War and appeared to feel it would be a boon to the whole 
wide world. The London cable read, The moment tljp world has 
long dreaded has arrived. Stalin lies at deaths door in Moscow. 
The world has dreaded his demise not because it loves him but be
cause, bad as he is, the man who comes after him may be even 
worse.
Much Speculation
This contradiction gives a special insight into the difficulties of 
speculating on the future when, in particular, it concerns Russia. 
The Russian press has always been rigidly controlled, and in recent 
years it has been virtually impossible to obtain any picture of what 
is happening in Russia except that drawn by official sources. George 
Orwells novel 1984 (familiar to many students at Tech) gives an 
imaginary view of a world in which the truth is constantly un
dergoing revision, but today the pattern is not so imaginary or 
so amusing as it once was. There is solid evidence to indicate that 
Russian control of thought and information today rivals that of 
Orwells world of 1984.
The most important thing to keep in mind, then, is the necessity 
to realize the limited nature of any judgment concerning the future. 
But neither can the implications of new leadership for the Com
munist nations be dismissed with the handy phrase thats a good 
question. It seems quite logical that the actual administration of 
the Soviet Union will fall to a small group of mennot more than 
a dozen and possibly less.
Each His Own Field
Of these, the names to look for will be certainly Georgi M. 
Malenkov, Vyacheslav Molotov, Lavrenti P. Beria, and Nikolai A. 
Bulganin. Each man has certain specific claims for consideration. 
Molotov has been dominant in foreign affairs, Beria in the secret 
police, and Bulganin in the army. But it is Malenkov who has 
probably had the most direct consideration shown him by Stalin, 
especially in the responsibilities given -to him at the Communist 
Party Congress last October. Malenkov, at 51, is the youngest of the 
group; he has developed an impressive control over the workings 
of the Communist party; and at times he has propounded party doc
trine upon matters not specifically covered by Premier Stalin.
Battle May Result
One of the greatest weakness of dictatorship is, of course, the 
problem which arises when the dictator dies. Stalin has made no 
public announcement concerning his successor (unless a political 
testament is forthcoming); moreover, Stalin is so close to a deity 
in the eyes of the average Russian that his death will certainly leave 
a gap hard to fill. Probably the group named above will maintain 
an interim administration of Russia until a single successor is chosen 
or survivesto fill Stalins boots.
A vicious battle for power in Russia may result, but it would be 
foolish at this time to hope for a weakening of the cold war poli
cies, or a moderation of the Korean situation. If anything, under a 
new leader or leaders, Russia may become more aggressive than 
ever; the western world may as well prepare for the worst while 
hoping for the best.
Scholarship[Continued from page 2]
The scholarship fund was es
tablished by friends of Frances 
Camp Parry who came to Car
negie Tech as a professor of Eng
lish in 1911. From 1915 until her 
death in 1920 Miss Parry was 
head of the English Department. 
Her vitality and enthtusiasm 
transcended to her students and 
co-faculty personnel who promot
ed a love for literature along with 
her.
In addition to this book scholar
ship, the Pary Memorial Fund 
maintains a section of the MMCC 
library which houses books of 
pleasurable reading.
Students Must Know Just How 
To Open 4Doors Of Knowledge
by Carmen Villella
It seems to me that one who hopes to remain at CIT for his 
education, must not only have in his possession an intellect of very 
high quality but also must pledge allegiance to that group vieing in 
contention of the title known as the Opener of the Hard-to-Open
Door. The veracity of this state-#^----------------------------------------------------
ment becomes apparent upon ex
amination of Administration Hall.
Approaching this hall of higher 
learning, one is prone to see many 
stttdents seemingly loitering with
in as well as without the vener
able structure. If the individual 
is inclined to satisfy his curiosity, 
he may be fortunate enough to 
see a member of the group in con
tention for the title of Opener 
of the Hard-to-Open Door.
Casualties 
Upon catching sight of this 
species of manhood, the aforemen
tioned students assume actions reSummer School To Be 
Held For Architects
A summer school of architecture will be^held in Salzburg, Aus
tria from June 10 to September 3. Encouraged by the department 
of architecture at Carnegie Tech and the Austrian Ministry of Edu
cation, the summer school is open to 30 American and six Austrian
students of the junior and senior#---------------------------------------------
college level.
Austrian and American Faculty
All courses will be taught in 
English by a mixed AustrianAmerican faculty under the di
rection of Hans Vetter, associate 
professor of architecture at Car
negie. A maximum of ten credits 
(five credits of design and five 
credits of electives) will be offer
ed at Salzburg.
Expenses 
Overall expenses for the sum
mer school will be approximattJy 
$1000, of which $500 is for travel, 
$200 for tuition, $200 for room 
and board, and $100 for miscel
laneous expenses. Students will 
sail from New York on June 2 
and return by September 10.
Recital
Sigma Alpha Iota, womens 
professional music fraternity, 
will present a joint recital 
with the alumnae chapter of 
the Pittsburgh district Tues
day evening, March 10, 1953 
in the Exhibition room in Fine 
Arts. Students and faculty are 
invited to attend this interest
ing program.
Those interested in applying for 
the summer school shouW contact 
Professor Hans Vetter, department 
of architecture in the College of 
Fine Arts.
sembling people attempting to 
purchase a 39c steak. As the man 
serenely pushes open the Door, 
there is a mad rush from within 
and without the old ivy-covered 
A.H. The persons on the outside 
dash in only to be confronted by 
the students on the inside dashing 
out. Then commences the modern 
battle of the bulge. Meanwhile 
the door closes amid screams and 
death crys of scholars crushed 
in its wake. Students sustain such 
injuries as broken bones, from 
inability to match strength with 
the omnipotent Door, or smashed 
faces, to the degree of their in
ability to stop it and consequently 
flatten their countenences upon 
the almighty Door.
A Moral 
Thus one swing of the door re
sults in students losing blood 
through violent facial contact with 
the agressor, breaking bones in 
the jaws of the trap.
The moral to this bloody tale 
of woe is that usually the only 
person who accomplishes his*purpose (to gain entrance to or exit 
from the building) is the member 
of the group vieing for the title 
of Opener of the Hard-to-Open 
Door.
ENGINEERING 
SENIORS...
North American 
Aviation 
Los Angeles
N '
will intervieiv here
hAmei ca
Around The Town
At the regular supper meet
ing of the Tech Canterbury 
house, 5170 Margaret Morri
son street, on Sunday, March 
15, 1953, Mrs. Helen Smith 
Shoemaker will speak on her 
book, Prayer And You, at 
6:30 p.m. Buffet supper will 
be served from 5:30 to 6:30 
p.m.
The 1953 Spring Series of 
Science for Fun hobby 
courses will open at the Buhl 
Planetarium the week of 
March 16. Each class meets 
one evening a week for six 
weeks from 7:15 to 9:15 p.m. 
The topics for the week in
clude nature study, photoggraphy, and astronomy. Res
ervations may be made by 
telephoning the Buhl Plane
tarium, Fa 1-4300.
The Pittsburgh Operas pro
duction of Verdis Othello 
will take place at the Syria 
Mosque on March 19 and 21. 
This will be the first perform
ance of this opera by the 
Pittsburgh Opera. Othello, a 
four act opera, with text by 
Boito, was first produced in 
Milan in 1887. Richard Karp 
is general director and Ar
mando Agnini is artistic direc
tor.
Jhe easiest-writiiw 
portable ever built!
mnvLs gnlSLsr FnsOR SFr nTTPIPLs CnlsOpR 
gnlSLsr ourrO eFLfuPnkRFPu LR RFnMk 
Pk SFr IYllrkS CnlsOpR nsfnkIrB
See it Here   
Terms as low as S|.25 Weekly
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
644 Liberty Avenue 
AT 1-8320
- SUPPLIES  
REPAIRS - RF,NTA1S
Campus capers call for Coke
EUyHb ,bHm A,iUmy| Of hy eUeA.eU1A eUhgA| 3|
QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO., PITTSBURGH, PA.
*endrw PT L lr-PRSrlrO SlLOr.fnldB W GKD?Z iH eUeA.eUsA COMPANY
H fl

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March 1, 1953CARNEGIE TARTANPage J
Drama Department Presents Henry IV
Dramats HaveWill Open March 14, 
Part 2 Follows Soon
As its third and fourth productions this year, the drama depart
ment has chosen to present Henry IV, one of Shakespeares greatest 
and richest plays. Parts one and two will be presented on separate 
nights according to the schedule noted at the end of this article.
Henry IV, a history play writ-* 
ten for the Elizabethan audience,
Fictitious
[Continued, from page 2] 
at no expense to the school.
Hurt Drama Department
When this years chairman of 
the board, Jerry Adler, requested 
consideration of his proposal by 
the college, President Warner 
* hastily assembled a committee. 
* This was particularly unfair to 
SnS since the Club has no faculty 
adviser or coach, and it normally 
works so smoothly and silently 
that relatively few are aware of 
its presence until Spring Carnival, 
let alone the complexity of its 
functions.
It seems that the main reason 
advanced by this committee as an 
explanation for the negative answer was, Going into this wont 
cost us anything but our reputa
tion. It can not be done without 
being misconstrued as a drama de
partment activity.
Fictitious Pride
One of the members of Scotch 
n Sodas executive board felt that 
the committee had completely 
overlooked the purpose of SaS in 
giving this reason. He said that 
SnS had been organized to give 
j Margaret Morrison students and 
engineers a chance to work on a 
stage production as well as Fine 
Arts students. It is a campus-wide 
activity. He also cited it as one of 
the-few campus activities in which 
men and women students could 
work together.
If the show could have been 
televised, we would have had an 
easy time in securing large stu
dent crews to work on Shoot the 
g* Works, and those in the cast 
would have had more than the 
regular incentive, said the board 
member. We feel that we have 
been put on the altar as a sacrifice 
for the drama departments repu
tationor fictitious pride.
N. Educational Value?
It would have been just as silly 
to rule out the drama productions 
because the stage designed was 
detrimental to the engineering 
^ schools reputation. Very few peo
ple outside of Pittsburgh think of 
Tech as anything but an engineer
ing school, and those of the thea
ter clique who would see the TV 
show know th^t a Drama Depart
ment doesnt dabble in musical 
productions.
A second reason advanced stated 
that the televising had little or no 
educational value. To those of us 
who thought we had finally understood what was meant by the 
term Carnegie Plan, this seemed 
to defeat a little of the schools 
purpose. Radio work has often 
been regarded somewhat of an 
equal to a SocRel course in ob
taining some of the social graces, 
and TV is but a modern adaption 
of this notion.
Other reasons claimed it would . 
take too much classroom and study 
time and that the show was not 
ready until the last minute. These 
' ^ were both countered by Adler 
with the claim that this years 
show was a review rather than a 
book show, and does not require 
as much rehearsal time of any one
Pride
actor, and that the music and lyrics 
were already completely outlined 
and almost completed. He further 
stated that the Ward Villani cor
poration was as interested in tele
vising a good show as was Car
negie Tech, and therefore they 
must have already considered the 
caliber pf Scotch n Soda.
Cash Awards 
For Stories
An opportunity has been pre
sented to women undergraduates 
to test their creative writing tal
ents by professional standards. 
Mademoiselle will award a $500 
fiction prize for each of the two 
best short stories submitted by a 
college student between now and 
April 15.
Only women undergraduates are 
eligible. Stories that have appear
ed in undergraduate college pub
lications are acceptable but only 
if they have not been published 
elsewhere. The length of the stor
ies should not be less than 3,000 
words or more than 5,000 words. 
More than one story is acceptable. 
The stories should come in type
written, double-spaced, one side 
of paper only, accompanied by. 
contestants clearly marked name, 
home address, college address and 
college year.
Mademoiselle assumes no re
sponsibility for manuscripts, will 
return only those accompanied by 
stamped, self addressed legal-size 
envelopes. Entries must be post
marked by midnight April 15, 
1953. They should be submitted to 
College Fiction Contest, 575 Mad
ison Avenue, New York 22, New 
York. The decision of the judges 
who are editors will be final.
For the BEST 
NPinN 
Photographic 
Equ!pment and Supplies
Liberty
Photo
Supply
GR 1-6467 . . 436 Weed St.
Jwt |w/ YmTwTHE PERFECT HONEYMOON
q Hk!nv SFr urlTrIS ulPvLIv of L RrIsvOrO 
InSSL-r Lss vnYl nMkZ RES L TlPrkOsv 
-YrRS FnYRr !YRS Tnl krMsvMrORB Cnt. 
OrlTYs frrd (lrLdTLRS YkSPs GG h, 
1nSR Sn On MFrk vnY MPRFZ nl YSSrl lr
sLxPk-B Fnl InfuLkvZ vnYss TPkO TS-TrS* 
FrrlSrO vnYkInssr-r Tnsd RSLlSPk3Tr 
Sn-rSFrlZ sPdr vnYlRrsvrRB hrkSPnk OrSrR 
LkO Mri PkIsYOr nRRl FrsuTYs imHH 
iUH|hUU g1AoZ nSTIrl TnsOrltBThe Farm on the Hill
Scotch n Soda 
Crew Calls
Its plans not dampened by the 
television ban, Scotch n Soda is 
attempting to finish the final de
tails of getting Shoot the Works 
on the stage this year.
On Sunday, March 22, Scotch n 
Soda club will hold a social with 
refreshments in Thistle hall in or
der to meet all those interested in 
working on one of the many crews 
necessary for the production of 
this years show.
Some of the crews needed are: 
stage managers, painting, cos
tumes, lighting, scenery building, 
backstage work, properties, sound, 
ticket sellers, and rehearsal pian
ists.
The casting crew calls were held 
a few weeks ago and the cast of 
Shoot the Works will be an
nounced shortly on the bulletin 
board in front of Skibo. The def
inite date for the first rehearsal 
has not been set, but it should be 
sometime in the week of March 
22.
Membership in the Scotch n 
Soda club is open to any Carne
gie student who desires to take 
some part in the production of the 
schools annual musical comedy. 
Besides the staging of the yearly 
show, members have an annual 
picnic following the show.
Each member of the SnS club 
is eligible for the Scotch n Soda 
scholarship
deals with questions of consci
ence, responsibility, and power 
politics. The characters as depict
ed by Shakespeare are as interest
ing and realistic to audiences in 
the twentieth century as they 
were to Elizabethan audiences. 
The play, directed by Professor 
Henry Boettcher, revolves around 
the actions of Hotspur, Prince 
Hal, and Henry IV and their allies 
in their conflict for power.
Cost of Men 
A cast consisting mainly of men 
is headed in both plays by Falstaff 
played by Gerry Terheyden and 
John Dodson; King Henry by John 
Bracchita; and Prince Hal by Bill 
Ball and Dan Levin. Others in 
Part one are John Ragin as Hot
spur, Charles Bateman as Wor
cester, Barry Frank as Vernon, 
Robert Dunn as Sir Walter Blunt, 
Harry Lantz as Glendower, Stan 
Watt as Mortimer, Jay Doyle as
Northumberland, Paul Shively as 
Poins, and Ralph Drishell, Tucker 
Ashworth and Milton Katselas.
The characters Worcester, Ver
non, Blunt, Glendower, Northum
berland, and Poins also occur in 
Part two. The female parts will be 
portrayed by Joan Norton-Taylor, 
Yvonne Vincic, Pat Barret, Jo 
Chianes, Soralie Levin, and Mary 
Ann Benedict.
Opens March 14 
The first part of Henry IV will 
open on March 14 and play every 
evening of the following week. On 
March 21 the second part will be
gin and will play for one entire 
week. Specifically, the follow
ing performances are available to 
students.
Part oneMarch 14, 16, 17, 18, 
19, 20, 27, 28; April 1, 9, 11 (mat
inee only) 15.
Part twoMarch 21, 23, 24, 25, 
26; April 10, 11, 15 (matinee only), 
16, 18.
Swiftwater 97, Pa.
The young executive
MAKES HIS MARK IN RETAILING 
THROUGH SPECIALIZED TRAINING
One-year Court
srLOR Sn 
hLRSrlpR 
br-lrr
Specialized training speeds college grads 
to top retail jobs. Interesting positions open 
in buying, advertising, fashion, personnel, 
management and teaching. Realistic class
room approach. Supervised store experience 
with pay. Coeducational. Graduates placed. 
Scholarships available.
Send for Bulletin C
SCHOOL OF RETAILING
UuiTrsity of Httiburgh, Pittbir|h .131, F*.
u^mbmisim
MORE AIRCRAFT ENGINES
bear this emblem than any other
///
There ore few places where the technical graduate 
can utilize his training more fully than in the rapidly 
evolving field of aircraft propulsion. Our engineers 
are constantly exploring new areas of knowledge. 
Thus their work is varied and interesting, and they 
find good opportunities for professional advancement.
If you are looking for challenging work  for a real 
future in engineeringfor real living in New England 
~why not talk to our visiting engineers.
There may be a place for you in experimental testing 
and development work ... in performance and 
structure analysis ... in mechanical designing . . . 
m analysis and development work on controls and 
systems ... in work on heat transfer and applied 
research problems.
MARCH 13
enkSrxS vnR*t ehTr-r kLrrfrtE nTTPIr 
Tnl Lk LuunPkSfrkS MPS!t nYl 
vPRPSPkHk-PkrrlR

---------------------------------------------------

INQUIRING REPORTERN
Many Varied Opinions 
On Cut Rules
by Dick Wolfe
The question asked by the inquiring reporter 
this week was, What would you think of a sys
tem of unlimited class cuts?
Dick Pape, freshman, printerThe question 
of unlimited class cuts has been 
debated for a long time on the MHKUran 
Tech campus. I personally am in 
favor of such a system. But, I do Ig
believ that it should be limitvpJ&m
ed to certain students who Jyi
achieve a specified factor. ThisRn|;; -v--,
question of rewarding hard 
work on the part of the students x' v;
has been tried in many colleges -\ >, 
and is a great incentive to :.. ,/fi 
work.
It has the advantage of allowing a student who 
does good work in certain courses to have more 
time to devote to harder subjects. The student who 
would abuse such a privilege would suffer for It 
and would learn not to do it again.
Phyllis Baker, sophomore, dramaticsI have 
been under the impression that
 vve came to college to learn. 
Those readers who disagree with 
he above statement may cease 
eading at this point.
In the system of unlimited 
jlass cutting there is an advanage to those students who have 
rue initiative and the ability to 
udget their own time. For the 
"ine Arts students it would of
fer more time for extra courses 
and much needed sleep. The extra courses could 
apply to all departments, but the sleep is needed 
by Fine Arts students particularly, considering 
crew.
An unlimited class cutting system would also 
provide more time for an individual study plan. 
Repetition could be eliminated. If the system could 
not be taken advantage of and if the privilege 
were used wisely, I would be in favor of it.
Hans Riddervold, senior, printerI think it 
would be ridiculous to introduce . 
such a system at Tech. Partieularly the under classmen would ^
suffer by such a voluntary reH|| ;:Wm
port, to class system. There are Mil; 
not from any American high 
school, students trained to do 
any studying on their own. They 
probably would not realize the ly , J|
necessity of, in many instances,
before it became too late.
To the upperclassmen, on the other hand, such 
a system would have little effect. They know by
bitter experience that it does not pay to cut too
many classes.
In order to introduce the European system, 
where the students schedule just the courses they 
feel they have to take, the entire American highschool system has to be revised.
Ed Eld, freshman, industrial managementI 
am definitely not in favor of anB
 unlimited cut system. Most peo
ple take their full limit of cuts 
as it is. In many of the under
classmans classes, especially lec
tures, Saturday classes, and SocRel classes, a person will not go
unless he thinks he has a quiz.
After a person has his limit 
of cuts, he generally thinks that 
he had better attend the next 
few classes. If an unlimited cut 
system were put into effect the class attendance
would be even worse than it is now. I am sure
OFFICES: Carnegie Union 5075 Forbet Street, Pittsburgh 1 
Pa TELEPHONE SChenley 1-4557 after hours MUseum 
1-53B0 foi advertising and rubscriptions: MUseum 2-3990
Published weekly during the school year except nolidays 
and xammalion periods by the students of Carnegie institute of Technology. Pittsburgh 13. Pa
F;ditor-in-Chiei ...................................... Fred Sonnentw
Business Manager .......................................... David Goldsm *
Managing Editor ................................................ Dick Ourstin
Sport; Editor .................................................... Frank Fegley
News Editor ............................................. Estelle Herlick
ersos'r. ManagerDick Christensen Features Editortnu 
Smith Advertising ManagerStan Rosenberg Assistant 
Basines* ManagerJerry Seinci Circulation ManagerJoe 
LtMarca ('holograph* EditorMartin Snyderman Reporters 
SIei'a Sullivan. Jack Armoui loan Cummerton lane 
Sundei Dave Hubbard Jackie Jonnoily Marilyn, Semei 
Ken Wir rton. Bill Minkler, June Sochatoff, Jo Forsythe. Ceb 
Reporter* Barbara Leonard Pat Maue, Elaine Manuele. Ann 
Dwindle. Oorothy Downing, Mildred Magura. Dave Robert
son, MaUie Rud>, Delores Frus. Sports ReporterEdward 
Feisenbautn, Robert Steiger, Dick Eppler, James Gore. 
Copy ReaderPau! Carmichael. Art StaffJoan Brech
in. Nelson Kelley. Dick Stahl PhotographerBarbara Toia 
Don Hand Myron Lewis. Roger Gregory Dick Wolfe
I eat lire* StaffAndrew Stedry, Lin Smith. Judy Storch. 
typistElayne Nord. Headline StaffVan Anderson, Pat 
Wangle. Dan Byers Copv RunnerFred Young. Make-Up
staff -Ellroy Wildnaber, Don Wildman. Advertising Staff  
llonaia Greenwa d Vic Shiry, Mimi Stem, Joan Newman. 
Circulation StaffRalph Antonito.
Represented for national advertising oy NATIONAL AD
VERTISING. Inc. College Publisher? Representative. 420 
Mad! son Ave New York City Subscription $1.10 per year 
Entered as second class matter on Octobet 4, 1907. at 
the Post Office at Pittsburgh Pa., undei the Acl of March 3. 
1879 Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage pro
vided for n the Ad of February 28 1925
UvHibei of the taaoclated College Preae.
over the cost of education and overhead.
If, through endowments and grants such as this by in
dividuals and private industry, private schools can manage 
to keep their staff and plant up to the level of state-sup
ported schools, future students will have the same chance as 
we to choose a school which is not over-crowded and not4 ,educating on the mass-production basis.
Also, the founders and proponents of the Carnegie Plan 
should recognize this position on the Sloan Foundations list 
of the four top engineering schools in the country as mean
ing that the Plan and its principals are recognized by AmerI ican industry as outstanding in the field of engineering edu
cation. College bulletins and releases can be printed from 
now until dooms day, but it is a movement such as this by 
j an American industrial leader that is needed to make the 
 youth of today, along with their parents, realize that en! gineers capable of directing our modern enterprises are not 
turned out of the larger engineering schools where nothing 
j in the plan of education is attractive but the low tuition.
that my opinion is right, since I and many other 
of my friends have already cut more than enough 
classes. If there was an unlimited cut system, class 
attendance and factors would be terrible.
About Your Letters
Just like anyone else, we like to get letters, and 
make an honest effort to print every letter to the 
editor that comes to the Tartan office.
But it has been our policy since the beginning 
of time to require that all letters be signed by the 
writer. If you do not wish your name to be print
ed, however, it is possible to put in a pseudonym, 
provided only that the writer of the letter is known 
to the editor of the paper.
Last week two letters were received which can
not be included in this weeks issue because we do 
not know from whence they came.
We wish to warn all future letter writers of the 
ne .essity of signing their communications in order 
to have them published.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March 1, 1955CARNEGIE TARTANF*t 
Tech Stung, 70-57, 
By Yellow Jackets
iH oCyhhyG eiAhgo
Members of the Penn-Ohio championship swimming team are left to right, top row, Dan Guz, 
Rick McCorkle, Rod Macdonald, Bill Aiken, Dave Shuck, and Coach Claude Sofield. Middle row, mana
ger Kay Emery, Tim Holt, Bob Weddell, Captain Dick Kramer, Grey Duncan, Bob Coulter, and mana
ger Larry Glavin. Bottom row, Bob Fisher, Dick Shipley, Ted Reuther, Phil Drew, and Jim Feldman.
50-yards free stylawon by Guz, Car
negie Tech; second, Field, Case; third, 
Toulons, Allegheny; fourth, Sampson, 
Westminster; fifth, Ramsey, Slippery 
Rock; sixth, Feldman, Carnegie Tech. 
Time :26.Fancy divingwon by Duncan, Car
negie Tech; second, Logue, Slippery 
Rock; third, Dilts, Slippery Rock; fourth, 
Rogers, Allegheny; fifth, Morehead, Case; 
sixth, Kramer, Carnegie Tech.
150-yards individual medleywon by Kramer, Carnegie Tech; second. Murr, 
Allegheny; third, Weddell, Carnegie 
Tech; fourth, Ullman, Case; fifth, 
Coulter, Slippery Rock; sixth, Hirsch, 
Case. Time 1:42.1.100-yards free stylewon by Guz, 
Carnegie Tech; second, Peters, Slippery 
Rock; third, McVay, Wash-Jeff; fourth, 
McCorkle, Carnegie Tech; fifth. Field, 
Case: sixth, Sayre, Allegheny. Time :59.3.
200-yards backstrokewon by Matter, 
Case; second, Coulter, Carnegie Tech; 
third, Anderson, Case; fourth,-Kepple, 
Westminster; fifth, Macdonald, Carnegie 
Tech; sixth, Uribe, Wash-Jeff. Time 
2:28.6. (New pool, and Penn-Ohio record.)
200-yards, breaststrokewon by Wag
ner, Westminster; second, Toulson, Allegheny; third, Englehart, Wash-Jeff; 
Fourth, Aiken, Carnegie Tech; fifth, Ull
man, Case; sixth, Campbell, Slippery 
Rock. Time 2:34.5. (New P-O record.)
440-yards free stylewon by Greenwald, Slippery Rock; second. White, Al
legheny; third, Work, Westminster; 
fourth; Hartman, Wash-Jeff; fifth, Drew, 
Carnegie Tech; sixth, Sickman, Case. 
Time 5:25.3.400-yards free style relaywon by 
Carnegie Tech (Guz, Weddell. McCorkle, 
Kramer); second, Case; third, West
minster; fourth, Allegheny; fifth, Slip
pery Rock; sixth, Wash-Jeff. Time 3:56.
Spring Practice
Spring practice for varsity 
football candidates will be 
held beginning March 23 and 
lasting for 20 practice days. 
Anyone interested in becom
ing a candidate should see Mr. 
Cratsley, room 102, Gymna
sium building.
Mr. Cratsley would also be 
interested in any candidates 
for football manager or as
sistant.
Tom Craig Gains Berth On 3rd 
All District Basketball Teamfor greater 
accuracy
Tom Craig, senior Skibo forward, climaxed his basketball antics 
by being named to the third all-district team. An abundance of 
cage standouts in the tri-state area this year limited Tom to this 
third string berth.
Craig has been a starter in all four seasons at Tech and the 
Tartans high scorer for the past three seasons. He holds the school 
record for total points scored over a four year period and this 
year tied Coach Mel Cratsleys record of 34 points in one game.
Dick Ricketts, all American forward from Duquesne, was se
lected as the player of the year in this area.
Teammate A1 Bailey was named to the first five along with 
Jim Sottile of West Virginia, Maurice Stokes of St. Francis and 
Pete Kinkead of Geneva.
mH A |gHCmyHm
A Month
3 MONTHS FOR $10VENUS...
the drawing pencil 
preferred 
by professionals
sharper, cleaner lines
... because the lead is 
homogenized by the exclusive 
Veuua Colloidal Process.*
The result: a lead that's 
ttaiformly smooth from top 
to bottom to give perfect 
drawings or tracingsno 
smudging, easily erased.
holds point longer
... because Pressure-Proofing* 
seals lead to the wood along 
the pencil's entire length. 
That's why Venus drawing 
pencils are stronger . . . hold 
a needle point longer.
accurately graded
... thanks to grading by 
hand. That's why Venus, in 
ail 17 degrees of hardness, 
gives engineers the consistent 
grading they need.
Ask for Venus drawing pencils 
at your bookstore.
*xclusive Venu* patent
|gHCmyHmo
All Rinds > Low at
American Typewriter Co,
it wood st. rn im
ALL-DISTRICT FLOOR TEAM
Pos. Player College Ht. Class High School
FDick Ricketts Duquesne 6-7 Soph. Pottstown, Pa.
FJim Sottile West. Va. 6-1 Sr. Bristol, Pa.
CMaurice Stokes St. Francis 6-6 Soph. Pitts. Westinghouse
GPete Kinkead Geneva 6-0 Sr. Monaca, Pa.
GA1 Bailey Duquesne 5-10 Sr. East Liverpool, O.
SECOND TEAM THIRD TEAM
FBud Mclndoe, Allegheny FJohn Mojzer, Wash-Jeff
FHerm Sledzik, Penn State FTom Craig, Carnegie Tech
CJesse Arnelle, Penn State CDon Virostek, Pitt
GDutch Burch, Pitt GJim Kennedy, Calif. Teachers
GEd Becker, West Virginia GRon Tranter, Westminster
HONORABLE MENTION 
ForwardsMickey Zernich, Pitt; Emil Rubcich, West Liberty; Bob 
Percy, Waynesburg.
CentersFletcher Johnson, Duquesne; Cy Kalizak, Alliance; Don 
Stemmerich, Clarion; Paul Brownlee, Steubenville.
GuardsJohn Clancy, Sr. Francis; Tom Pikunas, Slippery Rock; Bill 
Aldrich, Beth&ny. *
COACH OF THE YEARCliff Aultman, Geneva.
PLAYER OF THE YEARDick Ricketts, Duquesne.
Convenient Parking
J. Pad Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil 
Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
our I.D. CARD Means15% off
TIME SHOP
 Watch Repairs
f\n  Lighters  Gifts
\jn * Watches  Jewelry
 Identification Bracelet 
3623 FIFTH AVE. - SC 1-7077
(Fifth Avenue at Atwood St.)drawing pencils
wiffi ttio graon crockUd finish
Send for helpful, illustrated 
instruction brochure "Sketching with 
Venus Pencils, only 25c and get a 
FREE Venus Drawing Pencil.
American Pencil Co.
Hoboken, N. j.
Enclosed is 25c for "Sketching 
and my free Venus Drawing want it ( ).
Name ................................. ,
Address
More BOUNCE to the Ounce
Hoopsters Bow Out To Waynesburg

---------------------------------------------------

Fage CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, March If, 1953
GRADUATING ENGINEERS
JET AVIATION
WITHREPUBLIC
ANSWERS YOUR SEARCH 
FOR THE FIELD WITH THE BIG FUTURE
A iyGi.gA|yG JU3 
3HGyo |U,m eAmHHm 
Cyi iH emHAUmo UF 
iH hyGi| i,bHmomHAK
America's largest producer of fighter planes offers you career oppor
tunities in today's fastest-growing field ... jet aviation! Republic now 
seeks Engineers in the following fields: aeronautical, mechanical, civil 
and electrical.
Be part of the team that's setting the pace in jet aviation! At Republic, 
youll earn top salaries from the start and move ahead rapidly to take your 
place among the top men in this field with the unlimited future.
mHg,31yeo mHgmHoHAyVH 
Mr. Charles J. Ketson 
Cy11 yHmVyHC U iyo eAhg,o 
CHbHobA|Z hAmei G8
for htrthmr Information Aitd [C AppointPlayoffs Draw Neari *In Intramural Play
Bowling, Water Polo Finals Begin; 
Basketall Finals Opben Next Week
by Wayne Campagni
As the intramural basketball season passed the halfway mark, 
the contenders for the individual leagues settled down to the bus
iness of winning the championships.
National League
In the tough National league the Rockets continued to play 
winning basketball by copping4-----------------------------------------------------
their fifth win without a loss. Jim 
Hunt with 21 points led the Rock
ets quintet to a rousing 82-25 vic
tory over the Freshman Flashes. 
The Sekuds remained in the fight 
for the title by gaining its fourth 
win in five starts. They easily de
feated the DU B team by a 49- 
28 score.
Republican League 
The Graduates showed their 
power in the Republican league by 
beating a good Newman club A 
squad, 47-40. Glass led the Grads 
with 14 while Hoey had 14 for the 
defeated. Phi Kappa A captured
honors. From the Strikes league it 
will be Beta Sig, the league 
champs, and the Beavers, who 
took four points last Saturday, to 
salvage a playoff berth. Theta Xi 
has one slot in the playoffs repre*senting the Spares league, while 
one more match must be rolled to 
decide the second place team. The 
matches are being rolled on the 
University Recreation alleys in 
Oakland.
Water Polo
In the water polo leagues, Beta 
Sig is leading the Tartan league 
with a 3-0 record and one game 
yet to be played. ATO looks like
another win by defeating the Soph the team to win in the Scot league; 
Pigskins, 45-28. Groesch helped 
his team to victory with 14.
Federal League
with a 4-0 record and one game 
| yet to go, they are assured of at 
j least a tie. Playoffs will begin in 
the Tech pool as the league races The DU A team remained the j have been decided, 
team to beat in the Federal league  
after a victory over Theta Xi B, | an a55-46. ORielly had 21 for the for! ^Handball got under way last 
mer and Sura had 20 for the losers. I week as the Faculty, the Jour 
Sigma Nu beat the Arkens in a Aces, an<3 Beta Sig posted victorclose 41-37 tilt, and despite Fedors ies *n *he opening games. The 
19 tallies, the SAEs were defeated handball teams have been divided 
by the Obelisks, 50-43.
American League 
Action in the American league 
showed Beta Theta Pi A'\ Pi
pave McDonald of the Newman club looks on as his team
mates fight, for the elusive sphere in an intramural basketball game.
Kappa Alpha, and Bagdad AC 
keeping the title in sight by win
ning. Paced by Kanes 21 points, 
the Betas beat the Slugs 67-30. Pi 
Kappa Alpha got past Beta Sigma 
Rho with help from Settles 21 by a 
score of 53-43 and Bagdad easily 
defeated the Newman B, 84-28. 
In a game protested by the Delts, 
Citcom defeated Delta Tau D^lta, 
37-36.
Other Scores 
Rinkydinks 41 Hillbillies 34
ATO B 49 Hi Towers 04
Kappa Sigma 63 Tau Del Phi 46
Roopsips 42 B T P B 16
Phi Kap B 46 ASCE 25
Bowling 
Intramural bowling playoffs are 
due to begin this week-end with 
the top two teams from each 
league competing for all-campus
into two leagues of four teams 
I each, with playoffs to be held at 
i the end of the regular season.
Entries
Entries are coming in the three 
other sports, with action to begin 
soon. Five teams have entered the 
rifle meet, with firing to begin 
March 30. Entries in table tennis 
singles and doubles and horseshoes 
are now being received in the in
tramural office.
Tech Beats Pitt, 
WAA Hoop Squad 
Whips Cats, 53-43
The WAA intercollegiate basket
ball team downed the Pitt lassies
53-43 in a thrilling and closelycontested game on the Tech court 
last Tuesday.
Both teams fought to a 13-12 tie 
at the end of the first quarter. 
Scotty Hadjis, Diane Farrington, 
and Lenore Elwell combined their 
talents to push to a 27-23 lead at 
the half. The Tech defense lead 
by freshman Joanne Veliff con
tinued to hold tfte visitors in line 
while Tech widened its margin of 
victory. High scorer for Tech was 
Hadjis with 25 points, while Kitty 
Meledin lead the visitors with 18 
points.
Tech will journey to Geneva 
college on Saturday to seek its 
second victory. Tentative games 
with Fairmont State Teachers col
lege in West Virginia and PCW 
have also been scheduled.
Faculty Bulldogs Win 
W.A.A. Hoop Tourney
The teachers gave their pupils a 
good lesson in basketball and won 
a trophy doing so. The Faculty
Bulldogs took all eight games on 
their hoop schedule to win the 
WAA league going away. Chi 
Omega finished second with a six 
and two record.
Miss Fisk of the Faculty club 
held down scoring honors with 116 
points. She was followed by Abbi 
Carazola with 101.
Final Standings
TeamWL
Faculty Bulldog?80
Chi Omega62
Kappa Kappa Gamma53
Fresh "A44
Fresh B44
Kappa Alpha Theta44 ;
Delta Delta Delta26 IScience Dept.26,
Delta Gamma08
Top TenScorers
NamePoints
Colliers Picks 
A11-A mericans
Eastern Schools Grab 
Top Honors In Listing
Eastern colleges dominated Col
liers magazines 1953 all-American 
basketball team, with Ernie Beck, 
Penn, Tom Gola, LaSalle, and 
Walt Dukes, Seton hall, being 
named to the five man squad. 
Beck and Gola are native Phila
delphians.
Johnny OBrien, Seattle, and 
Bob Houbregs, Washington, com
pleted the dream team selected by 
the national basketball coaches as
sociation headed by Howard Hob
son, Yale.
Dick Ricketts, Duquesne, was 
named on the NCAA District 2 
team. Jesse Arnelle, Penn State, 
was the only other regional player 
to be cited. He received honorable 
mention.
First Team
F Ernie Beck, Penn 
F Bob Bob Houbregs, Washington 
C Walt Dukes, Seton Hall 
G Johnny OBrien, Seattle 
G Tom Gola, LaSalle 
Second Team 
F Don Schlundt, Indiana 
F Bob Speight, N. Carolina State 
C Bob Petit, Louisiana State 
G Joe Richey, Brigham Young 
G Dick Knostman, Kansas State
Patronize 
Tartan Advertisers
Fisk (Faculty) 116
Carazola (KKG) 101
Kanrich (Faculty) 83
Hadjis (KKG) 81
Schultz (Chi O) 74
Haney (KAT) 62
Barthelemy (Faculty 61
Fady (Fresh B) 57
Bruno (Chi O) 51
Herre (Chi O) 49
The WAA Badminton club is 
now holding a ladder tournament 
among its members. In a sequence 
of elimination matches, the ablest 
players will be determined and 
they will represent Tech in inter
school tournaments with Pitt and 
PCW.
University Recreation
BOWLING
Afternoon Bowling 
For Students
RENTAL of BOWLING SHOES
a07.0K emAyG omHH 
oeFrksrv G.K?07
Fraternities and Sororities 
Open An VOOL..4 no Oct 
tOl'l (VU DISCOUNT .OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 FORBES ST.
LETS GO TO
ISALYS
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Creata Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
Three Storet in the College 
District
S808 Forbes St.. Squirrel Hill 
S714 Forbes St.. Oakland
Main Plant.
3380 Boulevard of the Allies

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March 10, 1953CARNEGIE TARTANPage 7
CARNEGIE^#/  fi
' ' fTnaii-i |iywu^
Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology.
Editor ......................................................................................... Victor Sabol
Reporters..........Anna Mae Legosh, Irma Mascaro, Margaret Schaefer,
George Schussler.
SDP Offers Students 
Social Opportunities
Sigma Delta Phi is a social fraternity organized February 24, 
1940, with the underlying ideas and aims of creating a feeling of 
good fellowship, encouraging interest in campus affairs, fostering 
cooperation between groups, and encouraging and promoting scholar
ship. <
The founding group of the fra
ternity was aware that there ex
isted a need for an organization 
which could unify into a close knit 
union students from various departments and sections of the in
stitute.
Members are chosen based on a 
set of standards which have been 
adopted by the organization. New
Evening Students 
Urgjed To Donate 
Blood For Korea
Evening students wishing to 
give blood to the Red Cross for 
our soldiers in Korea will have a 
chance to sign up on Monday and 
Tuesday evenings, March 15 and 
16, between 6:30 and 10:00 p.m. 
A desk will be set up during 
these evenings in Administration 
hall in front of the Registrars 
office, and forms will be supplied 
to students wishing to sign up. 
You dont have to give your blood 
at any specified time but may give 
it at your convenience.
Council Plans 
Spring Events
Docket Covers Dance, 
Engineers? Banquet
Plans for the spring social pro
gram were the main topic under 
discussion at the regular monthly 
Evening Student Council meeting. 
When the members met at the 
Carnegie Union conference room 
on Sunday, March 1, the forth
coming Engineers banquethigh 
spot of the Evening School social 
calendar  received considerable 
attention.
Co-chairmen Byron May 'and 
Floyd Byers have obtained reser
vations at the Hotel Webster Hall 
for Saturday night May 3. Tickets
members are extended bids and 
pledged to the fraternity in the 
usual manner in vogue for social 
fraternities. By promoting within 
the group the codes adopted by 
the fraternity it is the hope that 
a nucleous may be formed which 
can work for.a better feeling be
tween all groups on the campus.
Social and business meetings are
ield every two weeks throughout 
he year and oftener when the oc
casion arises.
In compliance with the ruling of 
Council the founders of the fra
ternity applied for sanction and 
permission to operate on the cam
pus, and after completing the pro
bation period full status as a cam
pus organization has been granted 
the organization.
Clul b spr
PHILIP NORRISKING3ZE
BSFr nksv srLOPkKPk-.oPzr IP-LlrSSr fLOr Lk rxIsYRPvrsv 
OPTTrlrkS MLv Sn LvnPO SFr fLPk ILYRr nT PllPSLSPnk y
NOW I PHILIP MORRIS is available in the 
new KING-SIZE for longer smoking enjoyment.
Remember, youll feel better when you change 
to PHILIP MORRIS. In case after case, coughs
due to smoking disappear . . . parched throat clears 
up . . . that stale, "smoked-out feeling vanishes!
So take your choice, but make your choice 
PHILIP MORRIS-Americas Most Enjoyable Cigarette!
KING-SIZE or REGULAR
Northh Ammh emiimc
smoking PHIUP MORRIS
KING-SIZE or REGULAR 
you cannot buy any other cigarette 
of equal qualify!
CALLFORPHIUP MORRIS
Blood
It has been suggested that 
the Evening School organiza
tions put forth a united effort 
to obtain blood donors for the 
American Red Cross.
Any student who would be 
willing to donate a pint of 
blood should express his will
ingness by writing a note to 
Evening Student Council, Box 
256.
for this gala event are now on 
sale at Mr. McKelways office or 
can also be obtained from Student 
Council members as well as others 
selling tickets to earn points to
ward an Insignia Award.
Another event of interest to all 
is the Springtime dance scheduled 
for Saturday, April 11. Although 
this date did not appear in the 
Evening School handbook, this 
special date was secured at the re
quest of many evening Students. 
More information on this affair 
can be found on page one.
Hop Home
This Easter 3| mAy!
<r\
YM CU HHb A mA33ypo FUU
/ J to be mire of getting home L\J as planned . .. and getting 
^ back promptly after vaca
tion.. in a comfortable, de
pendable train. And you can be 
equally sure of vacation fun., 
traveling with your friends...' 
enjoying swell dining-car meals 
...with lots of room to roam 
around and visit.
GyVH HAm U iHoH oAVyGo!
You and two or more oI 
your friends can each 
tsave 25% of regular 
round-trip coach fares 
by making the trip home and 
back together on Group Plaa 
tickets. These tickets are good 
generally between points more 
than 100 miles apart.
Or, gather 25 Or more head-] 
ing home at the same time ttti 
the same direction. You eech 
save up to 28%, even if you 
turn seoaratA*'-
eUo,1 |U,m 1UeA1 KAy1 iUAb yeKH 
AGH CH11 y AbVAeH UT bHgAmyG 
bAH FUm bF,TsHb yFUmhAyU
HAoHmmAy1mUAbo

---------------------------------------------------

rffe SCARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, March 10, 1955
J. R. CLARK, A. E., Massachusetts Insti
tute of Technology, Assistant Chief Engi
neer, Chance Vought Aircraft, will inter
view graduates of the class of 53 in the 
Placement Office, MARCH 23 and 24. 
Mr. Clark is looking forward to the op
portunity of discussing with you...
Your 
Futur e as a
Chance
6VNOo 1L8CA 
R4EOEVGA
Gup GT? eiAeH 
VU,ei
Dallas, Texas
UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION
Chance Vought Aircraft, a designer and builder of military aircraft 
for 35 years, offers the graduating engineer and scientist an oppor
tunity to join in the design and manufacture of fighter aircraft and 
guided missiles.
The design of fighter aircraft is constantly being improved as new 
materials and more powerful engines become available. Guided mis
sile design is in the pioneering stage and progress up to this point, in 
our opinion, can be compare J to the period of development of piloted 
aircraft prior to World War I. Imaginative thinking as well as sound 
engineering is an important part of these programs. The young engi
neer through his creative thinking can rapidly assume a position of 
engineering responsibility in the Chance Vought organization.
Almost every type of academic specialization can be utilized in 
some phase of the design, development and test of a jet fighter or 
guided missile. Technical assignments are available in the design and 
analysis of specialized electronic components, structural and hydraulic 
testing, structural and mechanical design, applied aerodynamics, 
power plant analysis and testing, stress and vibration analysis and 
flight testing.
If you are receiving a degree in Aeronautical Engineering, Mechani
cal Engineering, Civil Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mathe
matics or Physics, Chance Vought invites you to discuss your future 
in these fighter aircraft and guided missile programs. Contact your 
Placement Director for an appointment with the Chance Vought 
Aircraft representative.
