TARTAN
February 1, 1977 Volume 77, Number 15 CarnegieMellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
CMU Starts Affirmative Action Plan
by Sherry Siegel
In compliance with Federal Government 
regulations concerning institutions receiv
ing substantial Federal funding, CMU has 
filed an Affirmative Action plan with the 
Department of Health, Education and Wel
fare, and is now moving towards achieving 
the plans goals.
Affirmative Action is an aggressive po
licy of hiring women and minorities to 
faculty positions, based on employment 
statistics and the availability of women and 
minorities in the work force.
During the first stage of the plans deve
lopment Dr. Ruth Beach was the Affirma
tive Action officer from January 1973 to 
December 1975. Dr. Beach played a major 
role in developing the plan and organizing 
data. She has been doing related work 
since 1970, and had previously been the 
Affirmative Action officer at Princeton. 
Of her job, she said, Its a pressure-spot 
'< most people spend 1-3 years with Affir
mative Action work; Dr. Beach remained 
six years. She expressed some disappoint
ment with the completed plan, saying that 
while some parts were very good, others 
were weak. Dr. Beach is now Director of 
Continuing Education for Women.
Now, in the second stage of the CMU 
plan, Oscar Mayer has moved into Ruth 
Beachs old position. Speaking of his pre
decessor, Mayer says she deserves quite a 
bit of credit. Mayer described his job in 
the following way: with the advice of a 
search committee, a dean or department 
head does the actual hiring. But as the 
pool of applications accumulates, it is the 
Affirmative Action officers duty to see 
that the pool has a reasonable representa
tion of women and minorities. As the 
pool is reduced and applications are elimi
nated, the percentage of women and mino
rities should remain about the same.
Mayer explained that the watchdog 
position should eventually become super
fluous:' Having women and minorities 
represented in the hiring pool should be
come a part of the standards  for evalu
ating teachers and faculty prospects. 
When pressed to answer when he thought
this would come about, Mayer replied, 
Ill be stupid and guess  a decade, at 
least.
Working towards this end is the Affir
mative Action Committee, with Joseph 
Kadane (head of the Department of Sta
tistics) as chairperson. In a memo ad
dressed to the Committee, President Cyert
by Mary Ann Lawton
On Tuesday, January 18, several rooms 
were burglarized at the Delta Gamma Soro
rity on the 6th floor of D Tower in Morewood. Approximately $35 in cash was 
taken along with a diamond chip necklace 
of high sentimental value worth about $45.
The burglary occurred around dinner 
time. Most of the rooi is that were entered 
were unlocked while theoccupants were in the 
lounge. One of the sorority members en
countered the burglar in the hall. As she 
was leaving the lounge, she saw a tall black 
man coming out of one of the girls rooms.
made the following suggestions:
1. A network of Affirmative Action 
officers shoi'ld be established, possibly 
one for each college.
2. Training sessions should be held for 
these officers, to sensitize them to probcontinued on page 7
When she asked him if he was looking for 
someone, he gave the number of a room 
that couldnt possibly be in Morewood 
and said something that indicated that he 
supposedly mistakenly thought that he 
was in Mudge.
As the girl went back into the lounge to 
alert the other sorority members, the bur
glar slipped off down the stairs. Security 
was quickly notified but by the time they 
arrived, he was gone. They later took the 
witness over to the Tartan Grill when they
continued on page 8
Sorority Burglarized
English Department 
Problems Discussed
Student Discipinary System Rivised
by Jeffrey Freed
A final evaluation of the English Depart
ment by the visiting committee headed by 
Dr. John Gerber (see TARTAN, Oct. 5 
issue) should arrive sometime this week. 
The English Department, however, has be
gun discussions on the committees tenta
tive recommendations. Among the topics 
discussed by the Department and by the 
committee are the following:
1) English courses are, for the most 
part, non-sequential. Few of, even 
the upper-level courses have prere
quisites. Thus, non-majors often 
take upper-level courses without 
preparation. The quality of these 
courses is consequently lowered. 
The committee recommends the 
selection of program heads to intro
duce the needed structure into the
curriculum. Yet despite the need 
for sequential courses, the English 
Department will devote much ef
fort toward teaching non-majors, 
who constitute more than 50% of 
the students enrolled in English
^ by Robin Mager
The Student Disciplinary System has 
3 been revised by the Office of Student 
Affairs and the Student Senate.
There were several revisions, the most 
important of them dealing with the disci
plinary process itself. In the past, once a 
complaint had been filed with the Office of 
Student Affairs, the Dean determined 
whether judiciary review would be under
taken by the the Committee on Student 
Discipline or by one of the student courts. 
The decision was based on whether the 
case involved the interests of the univer
sity.
Under the revision all cases involv
ing alleged violations of academic regula
tions will be referred directly to the Uni
versity Committee on Disciplinary Adju
tant (Officer) or the CMU Student Court.
If the student accepts responsibility 
for the charges, his case is heard by the 
Disciplinary Adjutant. If, however, the 
student feels the charges are erroneous or 
improper, he may request an appearance
before the CMU Student Court. The court, 
serving as a jury, will hear evidence sub
stantiating the charges and will hear evi
dence substantiating the students belief 
that he is not responsible for the violation 
of the charge.
The Student Court then serving as a 
jury will make a ruling of responsibility 
(guilt) or of responsibility with mitigating 
circumstances (guilt) or of no responsibil
ity (not guilty). The Courts decision then 
will be forwarded to the Disciplinary Ad
jutant who will determine the appropriate 
sanction in view of the Courts finding.
The moderator of the Court is to ensure 
that the proceedings are tape recorded in 
the event that their decision may be ap
pealed before the University Committee on 
Discipline.
Other revisions of the system deal with 
the more extensive use of fining and less 
use of suspension as a sanction, and a shift 
to less legal language in the process itself.
continued on page 7
2)
3)
courses.
The greatest strength of the English 
Department is its Creative Writing 
program. Dean Crecine wants to 
hire additional personnel to further 
improve the program.
The English Department suffers 
from insecurity, for many reasons. 
Faculty members have only a vague 
idea of what is expected of them. 
Tenure requirements are similarly 
vague. Of all departments at CMU,
continued on page 8
Earle Swank, Dean of Student Affairs
CO
ArthurEastman, Head ofthe English department.

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
Tomorrow Is Another Day
The University's process of planning for the future is 
amazingly disjointed. All too often, decisions having effects 
on the future are made off the top of someones head, appar
ently with little hard data at hand. The most striking evi
dence of this comes from the housing area.
Faced with the problem, in the Fall of 1975, of a larger 
entering class than intended, the administration explained 
that the extra people would have to be handled within the 
existing facilities of the University. They explained that the 
University should not construct new buildings, academic or 
residence, because in the 1980s the drop in the college age 
population would make the new structures unnecessary. The 
best that could be arranged would be short term leasing of 
facilities, as has indeed been done with the Shirley Apart
ments and the Webster Hall Hotel. Crowding was something 
that would have to be tolerated because long term capital 
investments were simply not warranted.
This position has gradually shifted. First there were the 
announced plans for building a combined dormitory<onvention center complex; the rationale being that in the short 
run, the facility could be used to ease the housing crunch, 
while at a later time, when or if enrollment should drop, the 
University would have a facility that could be used for other 
purposes. This sounded reasonable but somehow the idea 
never went over very well with students, who felt uneasy 
about having this facility at least partly devoted to the use of 
outsiders in the middle of campus. The idea was especially 
distasteful to those diehards who had never given up hope of 
having the Fine Arts complex proposed in the early seventies 
actually built on the site now designated for the convention 
center.
While plans are still progressing for the convention cen
ter, the University has announced that they are considering 
building a new dormitory. This is a complete reversal in 
policy from the stand the new facilities shouldnt be built 
because overcrowding was a condition that could not be ex
pected to last. Now the administration is taking the stand 
that "CMU attracts such a selective percentage that the 
enrollment will not go down and the new housing will be 
necessary. " First enrollment will drop, then it wont, what is 
the basis for these decisions; the whole process sounds like 
just so much hand-waving.
The MiddJe States Evaluation released several weeks ago, 
while in general very complimentary of the University, was 
very critical of the planning process. The report stated, "The 
team had the impression both at the beginning and at the 
end of its visit that very little, if any, organized planning was 
going on at Carnegie-Mellon.  The report added, "It is ironic 
that in an institution famous for its quantitative skills, the 
collection, manipulation, and. interpretation of planning data 
is extraordinarily weak." The administration has countered 
that they feel this criticism is unwarranted because they do 
indeed engage in planning, though of a different sort than 
what the Middle States Team are suggesting. The approach 
here is towards developing what the administration refers to 
as strategies. Apparently this involves determining where the 
University would like to be in the future, and what has to be 
done to get there. The approach suggested by Middle States 
involves essentially asking are the goals that have been set 
actually attainable. It appears that CMU is doing very little 
of that sort of planning.
Another Middle States criticism of planning, involved 
just who is involved in doing it, saying Planning at CarnegieMellon is not really a collective process.  They suggested 
"that planning channels for student and faculty contribution 
and reflection be opened. These need not be overly struc
tured, but they ought to exist."
More active and open planning needs to take place. 
The administration has an obligation to provide students with 
an accurate description of both current conditions and what 
can be expected in the future. Questions should be raised 
over just what the present capacity of the University is. While 
many areas appear to be adequate for present demand, it is 
dear that on campus is not adequate for present enrollment 
and the long lines for meals suggest that Food Service Faci
lities are also being overtaxed.
However, for any kind of planning to be successful here, 
all segments of the campus community must be allowed 
input into the planning process, something which is not now
hPPe9 Charles Mitch
Editor
ti nuMcl -fa? vethLetters
Fatso Revisited
Editor:
Here we are, another semester, 
and I was looking foward to more 
controversial Karate Club Ads. 
Licking my lips in anticipation. 
Frenzied anticipation. Would it be 
another nude? Maybe with two 
women this time? No! What did 
we get? You call that an advertise
ment? The nude had more appeal, 
the pebble had more mystery. 
Well I have to admit my dissappointment. I wonder why they 
didnt get more creative.
Charli May Elizabeth Cantwell 
When You Can't Even ...
*
Editor:
As a sign of the times and con
ditions of the residence halls here 
at CMU, we feel that the fifth 
floor of Morewood Gardens ETower deserves some attention 
from members of the campus 
community at large who are con
cerned with living conditions in 
the dormitories. While Morewood 
Gardens may be regarded by some 
as having tremendous convenienc
es such as spacious lounges, TV 
viewing areas, and close proximity 
to Food Service facilities, we feel 
it may be showing signs of decline 
since its halcyon days of yore. 
Certain basic needs of the stu
dents residing here are not being 
met by the Housing Office and 
the maintenance department of 
this school.
After our initial arrival at our 
humble confines in September of 
last year, we began a series of 
complaints to Mr. R.L. Heath of 
Housing, delivered by our fearless 
R.A. The cause of the complaints 
was the deplorable state of the 
plumbing and sanitary facilities on 
the floor. Since the beginning of 
the year, only two showers out of 
six have been operable. Of these, 
only one has an intact shower 
curtain. Only four out of seven 
sinks work. One of the six toilets 
on the floor is totally unusable, 
and until recently periodically
spewed sewage onto the lavatory 
floor until it was impossible to 
enter the lavatory without getting 
your feet wet. Of the remaining 
five toilets, none is equipped with 
toilet paper dispensers since their 
mysterious disappearance through 
vandalism. Since the janitors who> 
regularly clean the floor no longer 
leave toilet paper, this means that 
each individual in the dorm must 
fend for himself when he comes 
to use the toilets. Since the initial 
series of complaints, absolutely no 
improvement has been made. The 
problem was mentioned by a resi
dent of the floor to Dr. Cyert 
during one of the Presidents* 
luncheons with students. The resi
dent was personally assured that 
the situation would be promptly 
rectified. Nothing has been done 
since.
This letter represents a last 
appeal to those who can help us 
with our problem. We have ex
hausted all other avenues of ap* 
peal that are open to us. It is ob
vious from this account that these 
official channels are, to sav the
TARTAN
Volume 77February 1, 1977Number 15*A
Editor in Chief: 
Managing Editor: 
Business Manager: 
News Editor: 
Entertainment Editor: 
Folio Editor: 
Sports Editor: 
Photography Editor:
Charles Mitch 
Jim Harper 
Joe Loughran 
Joan Konkle 
Randell Hunt 
David Roussos 
Tom Binnie 
Elliot Popowitz
Assistant News Editor: Eric Petersen 
Editorial Assistant: C.R. Childs
Production Assistants: Claudia Clay, Carol Dieter, Clare Nadorlik
Staff Photographers: Michael Bergman, Skip Brazelton, Rajah Chacko, Bob Cziryak, Tim Fabian, Michael Fryd, 
Chris Heck, Courtney Larson, V.R,V, Ramanan, Ken Ream, Chris Roussi, Fred Shamlian, Susanne Wilson
Copyright 1976 by the Carnegie -Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie -Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 621- 
2600 ext. 656 or 481. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412)682-4557.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

more Letters
least, unresponsible to student 
needs. It is indeed sad when a 
direct plea to the President of our 
university fails to produce even 
the slightest improvement in our 
situation. As one resident of this 
floor put it, It gets pretty bad 
when you cant even shit here!
* We realize that Housing and Main
tenance have enough on their 
minds to absorb, but if they 
would kindly spare us a few rolls 
of toilet paper we would greatly 
appreciate it.
in behalf of the residents of 5E, 
George E. Marsh 
% Bradley P. Allen
A Need For Heat
Editor:
The object of this letter is to 
bring the heating problem at 
Morewood Gardens to the atten
tion of someone who can do 
something about it (hopefully se
cure permanent heat).
Since the weekend before 
Thanksgiving break (Nov. 20-21), 
my room and several others on 
7-B have been heated on rare oc
casions. Unfortunately for my 
roommates and I, most of these 
occasions have occured during the 
day, on weekdays when we all 
' have class.
For the week of November 28 
through December 4, we had nei
ther heat nor hot water. This 
made us reluctant to go to bed at 
night and even more reluctant to 
get up and take a shower in the 
morning. We ended up going to 
bed with so many clothes on that 
' we had to pick which side to sleep 
on (back or stomach) before we 
got into bed. Once you were lying 
down it would take three people 
to turn you over.
Fortunately the situation has 
improved. We still have to warm 
our hands over the light bulbs in 
the bathroom every fifteen minj utes or so, but at least our hair 
doesnt freeze when we come into 
the room after a shower any 
more.<We are looking forward to re
moving the extra blankets from 
our beds and to sleeping without 
socks and two extra pairs of pa
jamas.
Suzanne Childs 
Rate Increase Disgusting 
Editor:
I find housings proposed rate 
increase of another $100 disgust
ing. These rooms arent worth 
what theyre charging at present, 
much less more.
An average room is small, in 
poor condition, and equipped 
with some ill-assortment of furni
ture. No one seems to care if 
lights dont work, water isnt 
flowing, or public areas arent 
cleaned. Oh, yes, there is a main
tenance program but everything is 
done on a priority basis. Students 
never have priority.
And of course, lets put three - 
no, four or five students in each 
room. No one needs privacy, a 
moment alone when its actually 
quiet. This is ignoring the fact 
that with three or more sets of 
furniture in a room theres no
floor left. Thats alright, you real
ly dont want in that room. You 
cant study there, its too noisy. 
So walk to the library, but watch 
you dont get attacked! Where 
else is left when you need a place 
to work?
I found Dale Amons letter 
(Dec. 14, 1976) interesting. May
be this campus could use a couple 
of good protests.
Sheila Mountain
Problems with Doherty House
Editor:
I would like to take this oppor
tunity to expose some of the dis
advantages of living in the Doher
ty Graduate House, in comparison 
to living in the other on-campus 
residences.
A major inconvenience is the 
lack of public telephones in or 
around the building. All the 
dorms and co-ops have public 
telephones, but the one closest 
to Doherty House is located in 
Skibo.
The lack of a lounge or recrea
tion area stifles interaction bet
ween tenants and doesnt provide 
a spot to relax away from the 
apartment room. All the dorms 
have lounges or recreation rooms, 
and I feel there is a definite need 
for one in Doherty House.
Doherty Graduate House is 
physically separated from the 
campus; it is farther from the 
academic buildings than the other 
residences and is near no other 
residence. The building cannot be 
moved, but it is a serious inconve
nience that campus mail is not 
delivered to Doherty House, but 
when addressed there it is re
turned to the sender.
To improve the conditions at 
Doherty House public telephones 
should be installed in the entrance 
halls of each of the four towers, 
television and/or recreation mate
rials (table tennis set, billiards 
table, pinball machine) should be 
installed in the unused room now 
referred to as the C-tower play
room, and the campus mail sys
tem should include delivery to 
Doherty Graduate House.
With these improvements the 
students living in the Doherty 
Graduate House will have many 
of the same opportunities and 
conveniences the other students 
living on-campus have.
Douglas Weber 
Against Centrex
Editor:
1 am wholeheartedly against 
the installation of Centrex phones 
in every dormitory room on cam
pus. The decision of whether or 
not to have a phone should be left 
up to the current residents of each 
dorm room.
To some, the presence of a 
telephone in the room is not a 
blessing of any sort. It is a pri
mary source of distraction. In 
much the same way a ringing tele
phone can rudely draw a store 
salesman from a waiting customer, 
a ringing telephone will divert the 
attention and destroy the train of 
thought of a studying student. To 
have more phones than desired on
campus will only serve to increase 
the number of these occurrences. 
For the university to literally 
force a telephone upon every re
siding student is not wise, in my 
point of view.
Another important considera
tion in this matter is the cost of 
these phones. At a projected cost 
of $70 to every resident student 
per year, these phones would do a 
great job of increasing the already 
rising costs of university housing. 
Even those room residents who do 
decide they would like to have a 
phone, $70 per year charge is sub
stantially higher than the cost to 
roomates of having the Telephone 
Company provide them with 
phone service. For each of 2 
roommates, the $22 installation 
cost plus a service charge of about 
$9.50 per month totals only 
about $54 a piece per school year. 
(Not to mention their very own 
choice of phone style and color.)
At universities such as Cornell 
where the campus is more than 8 
times larger than Carnegie-Mellons, perhaps this type of phone 
system is economical and prefer
red by a majority of students; but, 
for CMU - NO.
Michael D. Alston
Opportunity Lost 
Editor:
I saw the Exorcist for the first 
time this Friday, January 21st, 
and what impressed me most was 
not the terror or suspense, but 
rather the tremendous loss of 
opportunity exhibited in the 
film:
1) The priest/psychologist should 
should be sufficiently well trained 
to recognize a case requiring psy
chological treatment when he sees 
it. So certainly after the numerous 
outbursts of unwarranted aggres
sive behavior and generally poor 
temperment being displayed be
fore him, what conclusion should 
he come to other than that the 
devil is seriously mentally ill (or 
has a lesion) and thus requires
immediate therapeutic treatment? 
Imagine what a better world this 
could be if the priest
had seen the light.
2) This beastie knows a few 
tricks we dont know, (psycho
kinesis, neck-bending exercises, 
inexhaustible vomit supply, etc.) 
How does he do them? What are 
his limitations? Certainly this is 
a case demanding serious scientific 
study, yet no one seems to have 
even considered it.
3) That priest from Iraq seems 
very interested in archeology, so 
one would assume that he 
wouldnt snub his nose at a major 
anthropological find. Well, rumor 
has it that the devil is as old as the 
hills and then some. Just think 
what he must know! Given (1) 
above, we could all benefit greatly 
from the devils knowledge.
4) Wouldnt a networks s ratings 
zoom upward if it could produce 
The Lucifer Hour?
5) The devil has also shown some 
evidence of considerable physical 
strength or power. Where does all 
this energy come from? Could we 
harness it to relieve our depend
ence on Arab oil?
Unfortunately, these and many 
other questions remain unan
swered by the film. By the way, in 
case anyone is wondering what 
prompted me to write this comm
entary, my only response is 
The devil made me do it.
Kevin Q. Brown
How Much Freedom
Editor:
In the Jan. 18, 1977 issue of 
the TARTAN there was a letter 
to the editor criticizing the recent 
showing of The Reincarnation of 
Peter Proud and SIX for sponsor
ing it. The writer concluded with: 
In the future, it would be wise 
for SDC, and other organizations 
that show films on campus, to 
refrain from showing those that 
are blatantly sexist.
This statement brings up an 
important question: How much
freedom should students have in 
determining what films SDC and 
Activities Board will show? The 
writer correctly emphasized that 
these two organizations use funds 
derived from the student body in 
sponsoring their movies. Obvious
ly, the purpose of showing films 
and the fact that students money 
is used for it entitles students to 
a great degree of voice in their se
lection.
Granted that many films foster 
false impressions of reality (Kungfu types come to mind), including 
the nature of female sexuality, 
should not students have the right 
to see them, if such was their 
desire?
The fundamental issue here is 
whether the selection of films 
should be in the hands of an orga
nization like SDC or the right of 
the student body, perhaps exer
cised via a representative organiza
tion whose criteria of selection are 
approved by plebiscite? Another 
question, one of a philosophical 
character, is: Should students 
waive such right and leave it to 
someone else to exercise it, thus 
abandoning their responsibilities 
and that which makes them hu
man (and capable of attending 
college), their intelligence? Of 
course, these queries extend far 
beyond this one issue.
It may be that certain films are 
undesirable. What that writer 
forcefully suggested was that they 
should simply be not shown. SDC 
and Activities Board should de
cree what films students may 
see in order that their minds can 
remain uncorrupted. Yet, it is im
portant who makes those deci
sions. It is the students whose 
right and responsibility it is to 
decide.
Pierre Laughton
Ihe TARTAN welcomes letters 
from its readers. All letters for 
publication must be signed. 
Names will be withheld upon re
quest.
I*

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS.CLASSIFIED ADS
DEADLINE: NOON WEDNESDAY!
Classified rate: $1.00 for every 15 words. 
Announcements are printed FREE.
general
Ascent of Man, a documentary film series
presenting the human dimension in the his
tory of science, will be presented every 
Tuesday at 11:30 and 12:30 in the Wherret Room, Skibo. "The Grain in the Store" 
(Cities and Architecture) will be shown on 
Feb 1 and "The Hidden Structure" (Matter 
and Atoms) on Feb 8. There is no ad
mission fee. Faculty, students and friends 
are welcome.
Thursday Afternoon Luncheon Series pre
sents Dr. J. Russo, Associate Professor of 
Marketing, GSIA, on the topic "How 
People Make Decisions in the Supermar
ket." The program will he at 12:30 on 
Thursday, Feb. 4 in the Wherrett Room, 
Skibo. The sei ies is free and open lo the 
campus community sponsored by Campus 
Program Planning.
"Realizing your True Individuality" is the
title of a special all-university lecture to 
be presented by Mr. Geoffrey J. Barratt at 
Carnegie-Mellon University on Friday, Feb
ruary 11 at 12 noon. The talk will be held 
in the Multi-Purpose Room, lower level of 
Hunt Library. Mr. Barratt, a native of Aus
tralia, has been invited to CMU by the 
Christian Science Organization on campus. 
He will draw upon his studies in philoso
phy, political science, and English litera
ture, as well as his own search for a mean
ingful life-view as a young adult, to present 
concepts of immediate interest to everyone
All Juniors have a QPA of 3.25 and above
are invited to find out about Mortar Board, 
a national senior honor society. Join us on 
Tuesday, Feb. 1 at 7:30 p.m. in Rm 12 
Skibo and on Wednesday, February 9 at 
7:30 p.m. in Rm 12 Skibo. If you are in
terested in Mortar Board, but cannot 
attend one or more of these programs, 
please call Sheryl at 882-2662 or Gail at 
621-7262. Mortar Board regrets that due to 
having received an incorrect address list, 
notices of these meetings were not received 
by some students with a 3.25 cum. average.
William Douglas Cooper drawings at
Hewlett Gallery. January 31 5:30 p.m. 
to 18th February.
London Daily Telegraph editorial writer
John O'Sullivan will be the speaker when 
the 1976-77 Interview Series, sponsored by 
the Journalism and Communications De
partment, continues at Point Park College 
on Tuesday, February 1 at 11 a.m.
Free School of Jewish Studies, sponsored
by B'nai B'rith Hillel, is alive and well. 
Choose from Hebrew, Yiddish, Israeli Dan
cing, Jewish Topics Discussion Group, 
Great Books Discussion or design your own 
Jewish Catalog!! An informal and fun way 
to learn Judaism. For more information, 
come to Skibo Lobby, Thursday from 11 
to 1 or call the Hillel Office, 621-8875.
Israel Day is coming to CMU Thursday,
Feb. 17. Felafel, exhibitswe need your 
help for watching booths, selling felafel, 
putting up posters. Please call the Hillel 
office. 621-8875, if you can help.
AUDITIONS! The Pittsburgh Dance Alloy,
a modern repetory company of University 
of Pittsburgh Dance Ensemble will have 
preliminary screening for new members. 
Saturday, January 29, 1977 from 1 to 3 at 
the Trees Hall Dance Studio. Funded by 
Pitt Student Government.
ORIENTATION COUNSELOR APPLICA
TIONS. The Council on Student Develop
ment is completing its plans for Orienta
tion for the year, 1977-1978. Students 
who are interested in serving as counselors 
for either the Summer Orientation Pro
gram, the Freshman Weekend immediately 
preceeding enrollment, or the orientation 
activities in connection with enrollment 
should submit applications to Warner Hall, 
Room 206, no later than February 7. Ap
plication forms are available at the Morewood Desk, the Skibo Desk, and in the 
Student Affairs area of Warner Hall.
CMU-EPFL Undergraduate Exhange Pro
gram. Enrollment in the undergraduate ex
change program with Ecole Polytechnique 
Federate de Lausanne (EPFL), Switzerland 
(cf. pages 70-71 in latest undergraduate 
catalog) is now open for selected freshmen 
in engineering and applied science. This 
program provides an international dimen
sion to the educational process and offers 
exceptional opportunities for cultural en
richment, an outstanding technical educa
tion and exciting prospects for employ
ment following graduation. Further details 
may be obtained at orientation sessions 
scheduled on Friday, February 4, Tuesday, 
February 15, Thursday, February 24 and 
Friday, March 18 at 4:30 pm in Science 
Hall 4327 or through Megan McCaffrey, 
Science Hall 4321 (ext. 358).
dubs
CMU Volleyball Club on Sunday, Feb. 6,
the opening tournament of the Western 
Pennsylvania Intercollegiate Volleyball 
Association wifi be held in the main gym. 
Ten teams from colleges in Western Penn
sylvania will be represented. At 9:00 A. M. 
the competition will begin with round 
robin play followed in the late afternoon 
by playoff matches and a championship 
match. The campus community is invited 
to attend.
scholarships awards prizes
American Association University Women
Awards dissertation fellowship to women 
who have completed all course work and 
qualifying examinations in a doctoral pro
gram. Contact: Director, AAUW Education 
Foundation Programs, 2401 Virginia Ave., 
N. W., Washington, D. C. 20037
Business and Professional Women's Foun
dation. Awards career advancement scholar
ships to adult women who need further 
training or education to begin a career or 
to improve professional opportunities. 
Awards offered based on financial need to 
women who have had a break in their ed
ucation. Contact: Business and Profession
al Women's Foundation, 2012 Massachu
setts Ave., N. W. Washington, D. C. 20036
Carnegie -Mellon Mid Career Women's
Fellowship Program. Awards based on fi
nancial need for full or part-time study. 
Awards earmarked for women between 
30 and 50 who want to pursue graduate 
studies at the Master or Doctoral level in 
either the Department of Urban Affairs or 
Public Administration at the University of 
Pittsburgh. Contact: Admissions Officer, 
Graduate School of Public and Internation
al Affairs, Bruce Hall, Room 202. Univer
sity of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
Clairol Loving Care Scholarship Program.
Scholarships awarded to women 30 and 
older who are continuing post-secondary
education to achieve career goal. Scholar
ships up to $1,000 are available for full or 
part-time study. Contact: Business & Pro
fessional Women's Foundation, 2012 Mas
sachusetts Ave., N.W., Washington, D. C. 
20036
Danforth Graduate Fellowship Program.
Awarded to women who want to pursue 
full or part-time graduate study that will 
lead to a career in secondary or college 
teaching or administration. Gontact: War
ren Bryan Martin, V. P., Danforth Founda
tion, 222 South Central Avenue, St. Louis, 
Missouri 63105
4
Women students who are planning to stydy
abroad in the summer between their junior 
and senior years are eligible to apply for 
the VIRA L. HEINZ TRAVEL AWARD. 
This award provides $2000 annually to a 
woman student at Carnegie-Mellon Univer
sity through the Pittsburgh Foundation as 
a result of a gift of Mrs. Vira L. Heinz, a 
trustee emerita of the institution.
Application forms are available in Dean 
Cox's office, Room 204, Warner Hall.
The deadline for submitting completed ap
plications is February 14. Applicants will 
be requested to be present for an interview 
with the Selection Committee on February 
21. The award will be announced immedi
ately thereafter.
PENNSYLVANIA LEGISLATIVE COR
RESPONDENTS ASSOCIATION, an or
ganization of state government reporters 
based in Harrisburg, will have a summer in
tern program again in 1977.
Two students, who currently are Juniors, 
will be picked for the 12 -week program 
which will begin in the late Spring. The 
stipend for each student will be $1,200. 
The program is open to students attending 
Pennsylvania colleges and to Pennsylvania 
residents who go to school out-of-state.
The interns will have the opportunity to 
work with reporters from the Harrisburg 
bureaus of AP, UPI and Allentown, Har
risburg, Philadelphia and Pittsburgh news
papers. The emphasis will be on reporting 
state government news and acceptable 
stories will be published. We are interested 
only in persons who plan to make journal
ism a career.
The deadline for applicaitons is March 18. 
Entries postmarked after this date will not 
be accepted. The PLCA Scholarship Com
mittee will pick the interns by April 15 
after personal interviews with the finalists. 
We also have two $500 scholarships avail
able to finalists who can prove financial 
need.
Students who want to apply for the intern
ships should provide the following informa
tion:
A resume that includes information 
on all previous work experience. 
A copy of your latest transcript. 
Samples of your work (either clips 
or classroofa assignments).
Three references, preferably from 
journalism teachers or employers. 
Written recommendations will be 
accepted but please include the tele
phone numbers of your references. 
300 to 500 words on how you plan to 
use this internship. It must be typed.
Students with questions about the program 
can contact Tom Ferrick at 717-787-5990. 
The applications should be sent to. Schol
arship Committee, c/o Tom Ferrick, P. 0. 
Box 1287, Harrisburg, Pa. 17108
classified
WANTED: Upperclass student (preferably
Biology major) to assist in new Biology De
partment office in Doherty Hall. Tuesday 
and Thurday, approximately 11 a.m. to
2 p.m. Please contact Miss Condy, M. I. 
7-340 for appointment.
For Sale:35 mm Canon EF w/50 mm 1.4
28 mm 2.8, 100-200 zoom 5.6 w/ cases. 
Phone 793-9047 or 795-5087. 4-8 p.m. 
Michael Fiore, 139 Kim Lane, Verona, 
Pa. 15147
Counselors, over 19 for unique overnight
boy's summer camp in Blues Ridge Moun
tains of Penna. Able to instruct either one 
of the following: Water safety, Water ski
ing, Boating, Soccer, Basketball, Athletics, 
Archery, Riflery, Ham Radio, Rocketry, 
Science, Track, Tennis, Golf, or Pioneering. 
Write Camp Director, 138 Red Rambler 
Drive, Lafayette Hill, Pa. 19444
Summer Jobs: Fifty State catalogue of
over 2000 summer job employers (with 
application forms). Send $2 to: SUMCHOICE, Box 645, State College, Pa. 
16801
Typing thesis. Dissertations, Term Papers,
etc. Ask about free copying service. Call 
Janice 421-6483.
Excellent Opportunities for College stud
ents desiring to qualify as stock-brokers 
and to earn income while ATTENDING 
COLLEGE. Financial Estate Institute OF
FERING EVENING CLASSESPoint 
Park College - 7 weeks of study. Tuition: 
$240. Call 241-6011 or 373-3300.
Male, 28, handsome, intelligent, Ph. D.
candidate, seeks female, 21-35, for in
timate relationship. Reply: Mark 1483 
Elizabeth Blvd., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15221
MONTESSORI
Teacher Training Program
APPROVED BY THE 
AMERICAN MONTESSORI SOCIETY
Seventh AERCO Summer Academic 
Program for 8 weeks to be followed 
by a nine month Internship 
Experience. Students will be trained 
in the Montessori philosophy and 
teaching method, child development 
and learning materials for pre-school 
programs. Now at two locations. 
AERCO/lthaca Program conducted on 
the campus of Cornell University 
from June 29 to August 19,1977 and 
AERCO/Phila. Program conducted on 
the campus of Beaver College from 
June 15 to August 5,1977.
For information and brochure, call or write
AERCO Montessori Teacher 
Training Program
1400 East Willow Grove Ave. 
Philadelphia, Pa. 19118 
(215) AD-3-0141-42

---------------------------------------------------

\
February 1, 1977  TARTAN  page 5
?\e*RE
HANDEL:
Messiah  St Adrian Bouk 
conducts London PM
$6.98(3 RS)
BAROQUE TRUMPET 
AND HORN
 Fcal virtuosi Mauncc Andre 
anS others
$9.98 (5RS) 
BEETHOVEN:
Favontc Piano Sonatas 
Alfred Brendd performing
Editor:sew
JULIAN BREAM:
Classical Guitar
$6.98 (3 RS)
BACH:
Four Orchestral Suites 
Soloists include Maurice Andre 
and Roger Bourdin
$4.98 (2 RS)
JEANPIERRE RAM PAL
Baroque Flute Concert
$6.98(3 RS) 
TCHAIKOVSKY:
The Nutcracker Ballet (complete)
 Artur Rodsnski. London Phil
$4.98(2 RS)
FOOD SERVICE HOT LINE TO THE DIRECTOR EVERY MONDAY 5 TO 6 P.M. EXT. 653 or 654
Week in Review
by Debbie Rosenkrantz 
and Wendolf Dolson
President Carter was in Pittsburgh
last week, touring a Westinghouse plant 
that has been closed since Friday. He chose
* the city as typical of those hardest hit areas
where severe weather has aggravated fuel 
shortages and unemployment. Bundled in 
heavy clothing, the President urged people 
living in houses with fireplaces to turn 
thermostats down to 50, reminding Amer
icans that Were all in this together. 
Carter is also taking more concrete mea
sures to help alleviate the dire conditions in 
^ the eastern two thirds of the nation. He
has asked Congress for emergency powers 
that would force sales of natural gas be
tween pipeline companies, favoring a four 
year trial period of deregulation of natural 
gas prices, with special controls to ensure 
that the utility companies dont reap ex
cessive profits. Also under consideration is 
anamendment to the emergency legislation 
which would allow governors to allocate 
up to five percent of the fuel supply 
dynamically, to areas of greatest need. In 
many eastern states, the cold weather has 
caused severe fuel shortages, which have in 
turn, closed schools, plants, and even 
threatened several hospitals. A growing 
number are requesting that they be de
clared disaster areas. Large areas of the 
b West are also receiving emergency assis
tance, since a severe drought is depriving 
livestock of necessary feed.
Former President Ford has signed a
longterm contract with NBC to be a net
work commentator.
Andrew Young has been sworn in as
Ambassador to the United Nations. The 
black congressman, who was early a sup
porter of Carter, was approved by a deci
sive 89-3 vote in the Senate. Young was 
moved to tears as Carter praised him 
saying, of all the people I have known in 
public service, Andy Young is the best. 
The President spent more than two hours 
briefing Young, who will be leaving tonight 
on a ten day fact-finding mission to Africa. 
His visit comes at a particularly crucial 
time when netotiotions between black and 
white Rhodesians are faltering.
The House Budget Committee heard
a presentation of a $31 billion economic 
plan last Thursday. If passed, as expected, 
by Congress, 96% of the American people 
will receive a $50 payment in addition 
to tax rebates. Carters chief ecomonic ad
visor, Charles Schultze, says the plan 
should boost ecomonic grousth by 6%, 
while effect on inflation would be mini
mal. According to Schultze and Budget 
Director Bert Lance, public service and 
public works jobs created by the plan 
would lower unemployment by .9% to
6.9% by the end of the year.
Soviet dissident Andrei Sakharov is urg
ing Carter to openly defend those political 
and religious activists who are defying the 
Communist regimes of Moscow and East
ern Europe by daring to speak out. The 
physicist, who is also winner of the 1975 
Nobel Peace Prize, referred to their perse
cution as almost unbearable. The Soviet 
News agency Tass labelled Sakharovs
letter as part of a smear campaign against 
the Soviet Union. Tass purports that such 
dissidents are hiding their actual intentions 
by expressing false concern over human 
rights issues. President Carter says that he 
personally agrees with these champions of 
human rights, but added that to preach 
to other governments in a superficial way... 
might exacerbate the situation...and hurt 
progress.
A jobs program for 200,000 of the
558.000 unemployed Vietnam veterans 
was proposed by newly sworn in Labor 
Secretary, Ray Marshal. The $1.3 billion 
plan provides $100 million to cover train
ing costs incurred by private companies 
hiring the veterans. Preference is to be 
given to those in the 20-24 age group, 
where the unemployment rate is 18%.
145.000 of the jobs are in the public sector.
Pope Paul VI has pronounced that wo
men can never become priests because 
Christ was a man. Groups in the U.S. 
have pledged to keep working for womens 
ordination. A Womens Ordination Confer
ence spokeswoman said that the 5000 
word statement represents the view of the 
Church as Hierarchy. Dr. Joshphine 
Ford, a leading Catholic theologian, be
lieves the action may be a reaction to the 
recent decision of the Episcopalians to al
low women to be ordanined. She also says 
there is nothing in the scriptures that pro
hibits women priests. Pope Paul said that 
intemperate female activists were ressponsible for the unduly troublesome 
reaction to the decree.
Democratic Representative Robert
Sikes, who was reprimanded last year for 
conflict of interest, was removed from the 
chairmanship of the Appropriations Sub
committee on Military Construction. 
The Democratic Caucus, as well as Con
gress in general, has been coming under 
pressure for lack of a strong congressional 
code of ethics.
The Supreme Court will hear arguements which will determine whether the 
denial of sickpay and seniority rights to 
women taking maternity leave is sex dis
crimination. In another decision, the court 
ruled that a criminal neednt be advised of 
his rights when voluntarily forwarding in
formation about a crime.
Political violence was responsible for the
deaths of 10 people in Spain last week. Pre
mier Adolfo Suarez says that the terrorism 
waves will not stop the progress of the 
country toward democratic freedom. How
ever, in an effort aimed at cracking down 
on extremists, all highways leading from 
Madrid have been blocked and all extrem
ists are to be arrested.
A group of 32 congressmen led by Ed
ward Koch of New York will introduce leg
islation next week which would prevent 
the U.S. from providing military aid on the 
basis of internal security. The bill is in
tended to stop use of U.S. aid in crushing 
rebellions in other countries.
UPI wire service courtesy of WRCT 
Wall Street Journal courtesy of A. Rezek

---------------------------------------------------

page 6  TARTAN  February 1, 1977
Gallery Director on Art Management
by Maris Paul
Aladar Marburger, Director of the Fischbach Gallery of Art in New York City, 
spoke on January 24th at the first of 
several lecture/discussions planned by the 
College of Fine Arts. The seminars, to host 
several other well-known figures in the 
dance, music, and visual arts, will focus on 
creative art management.
Marburger, a 1970 graduate of CMU 
with a B.A. in Painting, assumed his posi
tion shortly after leaving Pittsburgh. He 
was introduced to the New York gallery 
scene by Elaine DeKooning, 1969-70 
Visiting Professor of Painting at CMU, and 
shortly thereafter was named director by, 
Marilyn Fischbach. He has since assumed 
partial ownership of the gallery.
Reflecting on his experience at CMU, he 
felt that his education in painting was very 
fine; but his management skills and under
standing of gallery economics was sorely 
lacking. With little guidance he was re
quired to learn them quickly.
There is a great need for managers of 
the arts, he said. And not for broadbased managers who pick up superficial 
bits and pieces of knowledge about art. 
Rather, we need people who have studied 
art in depth and have acquired manage
ment skills. Art management is in itself an 
art. The College of Fine Arts and the 
Art Department, in cooperation with AMS 
and in response to this need, has instituted 
an interdisciplinary program in Arts 
Management. The six-course series ranges 
from a presentation of general management 
and business law to information specific to 
managements of the arts.
Marburger found the gallery milieu 
stagnating when he arrived in 1971. The
important, trend-setting galleries (and he 
stressed that by these he meant up-town, as 
opposed to down-town, SoHo galleries), 
though young in years, had succumbed to 
the limited visions of elderly or secondgeneration owner-directors. He was the 
first director to be brought in from out
side.
His goal is to show not a limited 
stable of artists, but rather groups that 
he himself expands to include new talent.
He feels that he has learned from their 
[the established galleries] mistakes. And 
he seems to have learned well: he now
compiles collections for corporations as 
well as for private, individual collectors 
who have run out of empty walls and 
he has acquired the talents of a group of 
painters he terms American Painterly 
Realists, who he feels will be widely 
recognized in the next decade. In addi
tion, he will show conceptual, nonpackageable art, for which he can 
always find a buyer, believe it or not!, 
and is instrumental in organizing this 
series of seminars at CMU.
A tentative list of seminar speakers 
includes Joffrey, of the Joffrey Ballet, 
Jack Lenor Larsen, and Rose Slivka* 
creator of Craft Horizons magazine and 
currently editor of Art News. Further 
information will be publicized about 
future speakers when dates are set.
CMU Computer Understands English
Computer scientists at Carnegie-Mellon 
have developed the first connected speech 
understanding system that can recognize 
a thousand word vocabulary with high 
accuracy.
The computer system, which can under
stand and act upon human speech within 
special task environments, represents the 
successful completion of a project funded 
by the Advanced Research Projects Agency 
(ARPA) of the Department of Defense and 
conducted at five universities and research 
institutes. The HARPY system,developed 
at Carnegie-Mellon by Drs. Raj Reddy and 
Bruce Lowerre of the Computer Science 
Department, met the project goals set five 
years ago. Three other systems, HEARSAY-II, and ones developed at Bolt, Beranek and Newman, Inc., and System Deve
lopment Corporation, while no" able to 
meet those specific performance goals, 
have also contributed significantly to the 
understanding of the speech decoding 
process.
When the ARPA project began in 
1971, the basic goal was to see if it was 
scientifically and technically, possible to
LECTURE:
The Meaning of the Black 
Experience as Portrayed in 
Alex Haley's Roots''
MODERATOR:
ROLAND SMITH, of CMU'S HISTORY DEPT.
WEDNESDAY, FEB. 2
7:30 p.m. 
DONNER HALL LOUNGE
ALL ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND
SPONSORED BY:
RESIDENT ASS T OFFICE 
& CAMPUS PROGRAM PLANNING
develop a system that would enable people 
to communicate directly with a computer 
through a microphone, allowing direct 
natural language input from man to ma
chine. At that time, many people in the 
scientific community felt that the goal 
was beyond reach for the foreseeable 
future because there were many gaps in 
our knowledge of the structure of speech 
and the means to represent and analyze 
it within a machine, Reddy said.
HARPY is not capable of carrying on 
a general conversation. The system was 
designed to understand spoken English 
within the constraints of specific tasks. 
The real measure of how well the ma
chine understands connected speech is 
how well it is able to execute the verbal 
commands it receives, Reddy explains. 
People can often miss a word or phrase 
in conversation, but still understand the 
meaning of a sentence because of its con
text, and computer speech understanding 
systems work in a similar way.
So far the system has been trained to 
recognize the voice patterns of five opera
tors, three males and two females, using
normal speech into a headset microphone. 
HARPY understands 97% of the words, 
and 91% of the sentences exactly as spo
ken. More important, it has a 95% seman
tic accuracy, a measure of how often it is 
.able to complete the requested task.
The second CMU system, HEARSAY-II 
developed by Drs. Lee Erman, Frederick 
Hayes-Roth, Victor Lesser, Raj Reddy, 
and others in the Computer Science De
partment, represents an even more ambi
tious attempt to accommodate larger vo
cabularies, and fewer constraints on a 
speaker. As one goes to more complex 
tasks, it becomes essential to represent 
knowledge within the system differently, 
researcher Erman explains. HARPY relies 
on an integrated representation of know
ledge, and analyzes the utterance in a leftto-right fashion from start to finish using 
a uniform technique. HEARSAY-IIs sys
tem design permits dynamic interaction 
among a variety of semi-independent 
sources of knowledge which try to recon
struct a sentence. It works on several difcontinued on page 8
diiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiimniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimi^
| SAVE !!! [
FOOD SERVICE 
COUPON BOOK 
SALE
THE MONTH OF FEBRUARY
crA coeoo*
Cf*u 
CO
O*o*!1oo*
Good at All Food Service Facilities on Campus
$10.00 Book for $9.00 $20.00 Book for $18.00
REGULAR PRICE
$10.00 Book  $9.50$20.00 Book  $19.00
Available At ... .
SKI BO FOOD SERVICE OFFICE,
Room 201  Mon.-Fri. 8:30 a.m. - 7:00 p.m. 
CMU BOOKSTORE
SAVE 111
nnfnmmnmmnimtinfflmmTiinmiiininmnmimimimiimftMHniHnN

---------------------------------------------------

February 1, 1977  TARTAN  pape 7
Philosophy Program Expanded
by Maris Paul
Dr. David M. Fowler recently com
mented on the rumor that the Division of 
Philosophy is soon to become an indepen
dent department of H&SS. Dr. Fowler, 
Professor and Director of the Undergradu
ate Program in the Department of History 
and Philosophy, is acting department head 
while Dr. L.F. Schaefer is on semester 
leave.
Stressing that while philosophy will 
continue to be taught, and taught well, 
at Carnegie-Mellon, no decision has been 
made to attempt expansion of Philosophy, 
now a Division, to Department. Dr. 
Fowler felt that although there had been
much discussion of the subject, the re
sources required for such a major change 
were simply not available.
Although a change in status is not 
apparent in the immediate or foreseeable 
future, an expansion in the form of an 
additional full-time faculty member has 
been agreed upon. The Division currently 
maintains a full-time faculty of four. When 
Thomas Schwartz accepted a position at 
the University of Texas last year, it was 
decided to replace him with a full-time 
faculty member.
The search for someone to fill the 
slot has just begun; Dr. Fowler said that 
the department has no one in particular 
in mind, and that applications are being
sought from all qualified persons. For 
affirmative action reasons, he intends 
that the opening be highly publicized. 
The new faculty member will be chosen 
from this pool of applicants, which he 
feels will number from at least 50 to 100. 
Because the number of permanent faculty 
is so small, it is clear that the choice of a 
new member will influence the direction 
of the department. And indeed, if the 
division does at some future time achieve 
departmental stature, the new member 
probably will also have decision-making 
capabilities of an administrative nature 
and the potential to perhaps assume the 
department chairmanship.
Disciplinary
System
continued from page 1
An advantage to students in curtailing 
the use of suspensions is that their perma
nent record will not show that they have 
been subjected to discipline. All actions 
such as suspensions and expulsions appear 
on students records; fines will not be re
corded there however. This helps to lessen 
the possibility that a students chance for a 
job will suffer because his college transcript 
shows he received discipline.
Dean Swank welcomes any comments 
or suggestions for revision of detail, though 
not the process, from members of the cam
pus community who feel there may be 
some probable risk or serious inequity in 
the new system.
FREE SCHOOL OF JEWISH STUDIES
Free School of Jewish Studies is alive and well
The following courses are in operation: Practicum in the 
Jewish Catalog, Hebrew Courses, Israeli Dancing, 
Talmud Class, Jewish Topics in Discussion Group, 
Seminars in Current Jewish Issues, Great Books 
Discussion and Yiddish.
For more information, come Thursday, 11-1, Skibo Lob
I am interested in
Name ______
Address ____
Campus Phone
Please Return To: B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213315 S. Beliefield Ave
The College of Engineering of The Pennsylvania State University 
invites inquiries for graduate study from undergraduates majoring 
in engineering. A wide spectrum of graduate programs is avail
able to help further prepare you for careers in industry, business, 
government, or education.
Graduate ProgramDegrees
AcousticsM.S., M.Eng., Ph.D.
Aerospace EngineeringM.S., Ph.D.
Agricultural EngineeringM.S., Ph.D.
Architectural EngineeringM.S.
BioengineeringM.S., Ph.D.
Chemical EngineeringM.S., M.Eng., Ph.D.
Civil EngineeringM.S., M.Eng., Ph.D.
Electrical EngineeringM.S., Ph.D.
Engineering MechanicsM.S., M.Eng., Ph.D.
Environmental EngineeringM.S., Ph.D.
Industrial EngineeringM.S., M.Eng., Ph.D.
Mechanical EngineeringM.S., M.Eng., Ph.D.
Nuclear EngineeringM.S., M.Eng., Ph.D.
Financial assistance available through appointment as a graduate assistant.
Penn State is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer
Fill in, clip out and return to Dean of Engineering, The Pennsylvania 
State University, 101 Hammond Building, University Park, PA 16802.
Institution and Undergraduate Major ---------------------------------------------------------
Interested in information on Graduate Program in -----------------------------------------
Name  _______________ _________________________________- -------
Address ______________ ...-----------------------------------------------------  -------
City and State _______________________ Zip Code------------------------------
Affirmative Action Plan
continued from page 1
President Richard Cyert, Affirmative Action is the responsibility of every employee.
Graduate Studies 
In Engineering 
At Penn State
lems women and minorities have in the 
professions.
3. A good mix of graduate students 
may be desirable, and this should be 
studied.
4. Internal staff training should be 
available to all faculty members, for their 
own career advancement and for the Uni
versitys benefit.
5. A salary review should be made to 
ensure fairness to women and minorities.
Referring to the handicapped as a 
coming minority, Kadane added that he 
and his committee are also investigating 
how the campus can be made architec
turally available to those in wheelchairs. He 
thinks that the best way to do this would 
be major by major ; that is, redo or adapt 
present facilities so that all buildings and 
facilities a handicapped engineering major,
for example, would need would be acces
sible.
Kadane concluded by saying that the 
faculty hiring business is a delicate thing. 
Like Mayer, he expressed the desire to 
spread around the responsibility for 
hiring women and minorities to depart
ment heads and deans.
President Cyert sums this up in the 
memo to the Committee: Affirmative
Action, as a policy at CMU, is a responsi
bility of each member of the administra
tion, faculty, and staff. The Committees 
job is to organize the effort so that we can 
achieve our goal of being a university that 
goes out of its way to be fair.
In the January 24th edition of Focus, 
the faculty and staff newspaper, tables 
summarizing essential data are given. The 
tables point out that the CFA faculty
shows the greatest need for revision: it has 
been determined that sixteen women 
should be hired (eight in Art, four in 
Music, three in Design, and one in Drama), 
and two minority people should be hired.
After CFA comes MIS, needing an 
increase of four women and three minority 
people. Data for H&SS show a desired 
increase of five women (three in Psycho
logy and Education, one in History and
Philosophy, and one in English) and one 
minority person.
CIT shows no revisions needed in 
faculty.
As Ruth Beach explained, the strength 
of the Affirmative Action plan is in its 
logic: at the same time it provides oppor
tunities to women and minorities, it gives 
the University a greater pool of qualified 
people from which to choose and hire.

---------------------------------------------------

page 8  TARTAN  February 1, 1977
WHERE IN THE WORLD ARE YOU GOING WITH YOUR EDUCATION? 
Answer........TO SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY IN:
FLORENCE: Italian Language and Literature, History, Fine Arts, Humanities, 
Philosophy, Social Science.
MADRID: Spanish Language and Literature, Anthropology, Fine Arts, History,
Political Sciece, Social Science, Businnss/Management, Education, Philos
ophy, Sociology, Theology.
STRASBOURG: French Language and Literature, German Language, History, Fine 
Arts, Religion, Political Science, Social Science.
AMSTERDAM: Dutch Language and Culture, Fine Arts, History, Social Science, 
Economics, Management, Social Work, Human Development, Anthropology.
LONDON: English, History, Fine Arts, Political Science, Photography, Advertising, 
Newswriting, Drama, Art, History, Studio Arts, Architecture, Teacher 
Education.
MEXICO: Spanish Language and Literature, Art, Geology, Geography, Sociology, 
Political Science, History, Anthropology
ISRAEL: Management Program with Liberal Arts electives.
 APPLICATION DEADLINE FOR 1977 FALL SEMESTER: MARCH 1st
 FINANCIAL AID AVAILABLE
 NO LANGUAGE BACKGROUND NECESSARY
 SUMMER PROGRAMS OFFERED IN:
EAST AFRICA 
FRANCE 
ENGLAND 
IRELAND
Sociology
Architecture
Education
Geography
ISRAEL
ITALY
ITALY
SWITZERLAND
For Further Information and Application:
Geology 
Fine Arts 
Studio Art 
Music
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY
Division of International Programs Abroad
335 Comstock Avenue - Room N
Syracuse, New York 13210
(315) 423-3471
Literate
Computer
continued from page 6
ferent parts of the utterance simultaneous
ly, figuring out what a word may be by 
analyzing the words that precede and fol
low it and then picking words from its vo
cabulary that match the acoustic patterns, 
follow grammatical rules, and make logical 
sense in the context.
One major difference between the two 
systems is the ability of HEARSAY-II to 
deal, with extraneous material interjected in 
an utterance. If a speaker coughs, or re
peats a phrase, HARPY is not designed to 
recognize these sounds as being superflu
ous. But HEARSAY-II will ignore the un
intended sounds if it is able to understand 
enough of the message to be able to per
form the task requested.
The researchers believe that the real 
scientific achievement in their work on
connected speech understanding systems 
has to do with the notion of machines 
that can operate in errorful domains. 
In both systems, as speech is analyzed, 
every decision made in the process of 
interpretation has some probability of 
being wrong. So the systems continu
ally look for the best match of patterns, 
or the most likely, logical choice of words. 
Thus, each system is more reliable than any 
one of the components within it. The 
researchers so cite significant progress in 
machine recognition of acoustic phonetics 
 developing systems that can recognize 
and differentiate among sounds.
Let me stress,v Reddy said, that 
neither of our systems is capable of en
gaging in intelligent general conversation 
like HAL, the computer in the film 
2001-A Space Odyssey. We dont even 
know if that is possible, although some of 
the components needed for that kind of 
system are functional, and others appear to 
be feasible.
English Department Problems
continued from page 1Jazz Concert Proceeds Donated to Hunt
. by Maris Paul
Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia, CMUs honorary 
music fraternity, contributed S234.00 to 
the Hunt Library Music Department on 
January 27. This donation, consisting of 
the proceeds from the Benefit Jazz Con
cert held January 9, brings the total 
value of record and monetary gifts to 
Hunt Library to $1,400 in two years.
The check was given to Dr. Jno Hunt, 
who will supervise acquisitions made 
with the gift. He welcomes suggestions
about possible purchases.
The Alpha Omega Chapter performs 
concerts both at Skibo and Fine Arts 
throughout the year, and often sponsors 
musical events benefiting CMU students. 
In addition to this years Jazz Concert, 
which combined Jazz Ensembles from 
Duquesne, Pitt and CMU, the fraternity 
will sponsor a Choral Music Composition 
Contest later this semester. Details for 
entry to the competition will be avail
able in the near future.
John Crecine. "Our goal isafirst-rate English 
department."
Delta Gamma 
Kipped Off
continued from page 1
got a tip that the burglar was there, but he 
couldnt be located.
Security thinks that the burglar could 
possibly be the same man who was seen 
coming out of Delta Gammas bathroom 
at around 3 oclock in the morning some
time before Christmas. All members of 
the sorority are now keeping their doors 
locked at all times, even if they are some
where else on the floor.
the English Department receives the 
least recognition and the least sup
port. To compound matters, the 
head of the Department, Dr. Ar
thur Eastman, is due to leave. Re
medying these insecurities will re
quire, according'to Dean Crecine, 
a more definitive departmental 
policy regarding faculty members, 
and a conscientious effort to im
prove the departments image.
Crecine is very pleased with the results 
of the committees evaluation, and with 
the cooperation he received from the Eng
lish Department. The committees recom
mendations will guide the restructuring of 
the English Department.
The English Department has recently 
been receiving much attention. A Search 
Committee has been appointed to find a 
new Department Head. Large quantities of 
data and discussions were compiled for re
view by the visiting committee. Our 
goal, said Crecine, is a first-rate English 
Department.

---------------------------------------------------

IT DOESN'T HAVE 
TO BE A HABIT!
Maybe you get a kick out of it. 
Maybe it's an urge. 
Maybe it's just fun.
If you like to write, 
or know where there's a story,
drop it with us.
IF IT'S GOOD 
WE'LL PRINT IT!
NAN
Skibo 52 
IT COULD BECOME A HABIT.

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT_______________FERGUSON'S BLEND OF EVERYTHING
by David Doremus
Maynard Fergusons Primal Scream is 
the latest in his series of attempts to popu
larize the big band sound. Ferguson com
bines disco/rock/reggae sounds with the 
traditional big band horns and adds his 
own distinctive trumpet playing to, hope
fully, create a unique sound that retains 
the strength of the big bands while apply
ing it to modern rhythms and melodic tex
tures. His use of a 12-piece string section 
on the disco-type cuts both augments the 
sound of the band and, at the same time, 
smooths it out a bit, adding an element of 
contrast between the sweeping strings 
and the staccato phrases of the horns. 
Ferguson is very free with his use of the 
different instruments and mixes various 
combinations through a strong rhythmic 
base that dominates many of the songs. 
This is the most commercial of Fergusons 
recent albums and potentially the most 
interesting. The fusion of jazz and pop 
forms, while perhaps not the most exciting 
event of the last ten years, can still create 
some excellent music. John Mayall, Don 
Ellis, Chick Corea and Herbie Hancock are 
just a few of the musicians who have 
worked with this sort of fusion and the 
results are as varied as the composers are 
different. Each blend is highly individual 
and Ferguson is no exception. He creates 
his own niche, separate from but still 
related to the other experiments in this 
direction. The main difference between 
Ferguson and the others is that his blend 
appears to be less from personal love for 
the music than from commercial instincts. 
He seems to want a vehicle for his trumpet 
gymnastics, preferably a commercially 
successful one.
Chick Corea, one of the prime innova
tors in this direction, wrote and plays key
boards on what is probably the best track 
on this album. The Cheshire Cat Walk is
one of the more powerful and unusual 
pieces Maynard Ferguson has played in 
recent years. It combines Coreas chan
ging rhythms and synthesizer work with 
the Ferguson band and trumpet sound. 
One of the most exciting moments on the 
record is Coreas trading of solos with 
Ferguson and tenor man Mark Colby. The 
brief melodic bursts of trumpet, sax and 
synthesizer over the Spanish horn melo
dies and pulsating rhythm section ends 
with Corea and Colby trying to out do 
each other. Finally, the band comes up 
over them and drowns them out in a 
brief, rousing finale. Corea begins the 
piece by stating a brief piccolo-like syn
thesizer theme that leads into Fergusons 
first solo along with some horn riffs that 
conjure up visions of bullfights and dancing 
in the streets. Fergusons high notes are 
still the most easily recognizable feature 
of his playing but he shows some creative 
melodic work here, above and beyond 
showing off his amazing technical faci
lity.
Swamp, written by the bands gui
tarist, Eric Gale, features some interesting 
electronic flute work by Bobby Militello. 
It has a hint of a reggae beat, Fergusons 
trumpet calls and assorted synthesized 
tropical birds. A very hard song to cate
gorize, it combines Latin, Caribbean, and 
African elements to evoke a mysterious 
jungle atmosphere while Ferguson, Gale, 
and Militello add their own dimensions of 
improvisions around Bob James synthe
sizer. The rhythm is as all important here 
as elsewhere on the record and Gales gui
tar keeps a strong reggae back beat punc
tuated every few bars by bass synthesizer 
phrases. No matter what the soloists are 
doing the rhythm section keeps everything 
solid and moving forward.
Pagliacci is taken from an Italian opera 
and put through the disco treatment, with 
heavy emphasis on the swirling string and
TAJ MAHAL SAVES 
TRADITIONAL BLUES
by David C. Lucas
The music of Black musicians has 
branched out in many different directions. 
Some of these offshoots such as that of 
jazz and soul are leading trends in the 
field of popular music. Others are not as 
popular. Although Reggae has temporarily 
drawn attention to Caribbean music, 
Calypso sounds are rarely heard. Tradi
tional blues are left to a dwindling number 
of Black septagenarians or diluted to pro
duce the tunes of such groups as Little 
Feat and the Allman Brothers.
Taj Mahal is one of the few young black 
artists who refuses to let these musical 
traditions die. His new album, Music Fuh 
Ya (Musica Para Tu), concentrates on 
Blues and Calypso music. Most of the 
members of his band have Caribbean back
grounds. Taj Mahal was bom in the Jamai
can community of New York City.
The release of Music Fuh Ya  was per
fectly timed. While three-fourths of the 
United States is suffering through the cold
est winter of the century, this album allows 
you to enter a world of balmy, blossomscented Southern breezes, tepid blue Gulf 
waters and sunny green Carribbean isles. 
The music can most simply be described as 
warm and happy; the antithesis of this 
January at CMU.
Three of the cuts on Music Fuh Ya are 
of the country blues type. From the start 
of Mahal's guitar-picking and whistle-mimicing harmonica, you can feel the Freight 
Train coming. It was this type of song that 
ga?; 1 Mahal the singing role of Ike. in
brass arrangements. Eric Gale lays down 
some nice guitar work on this tune before 
Maynard Ferguson rises above the strings 
with his distinctive, pure, high notes 
dominating everything going on beneath 
him.
Invitation and Primal Scream are also in 
a disco vein but that doesnt stop Maynard 
and Colby from some fine soloing. They 
would be more interesting if they sounded 
halfway original. The disco style has been 
pounded into American ears for so long 
that anything using its standing melodic 
devices sounds so automatically cliched. 
Its almost impossible to escape from 
the bass-highhat rhythm and the heavy 
almost suffocating strings.
Fergusons playing and arrangements 
are as tight as always. His hand is rigidly 
disciplined and excellent musically. There 
are no false steps, the control and restraint 
so typical of Maynard Ferguson is raised 
to almost impossible degrees. After saying 
all this in praise of a record, its time to 
bring things back down to earth. There are 
many faults in this album, and I would 
hesitate to recommend it to anyone who 
is not either a hard-core Ferguson fan or a 
Disco Duck. The strings are too over
powering, the rhythms too monotonous, 
the band too slick, controlled. What is 
slightly annoying in one song becomes 
irritating when repeated throughout a 
record. The Cheshire Cat Walk and Swamp 
are good music, but not compared to the 
same type of fusion done by others. The 
rest of the record is heavily influenced by 
disco. It is a shame to hear some fine music 
injured by excessive strings and saccharine 
arrangements. Hopefully, Ferguson will 
release a live version of these tunes without 
the strings or with a synthesized string 
section used sparingly, including more 
soloing from the larger section of the band. 
The tunes are not inherently bad and 
Maynard Ferguson is enough of a 
professional to let his band go in concert 
without imposing the restrictions that 
injure the studio versions. Until that time, 
the only thing one can say about this 
record is that, while it has its moments, its 
overall effect is not impressive. Hopefully 
next time around Maynard Ferguson will 
arrive at a better balance between 
commerical styles and the creativity inhe
rent in the jazz he has been playing so long 
and so well.
Sounder. In a short monologue at the 
beginning, he dedicates this blues classic to 
several disjointed entities. (When he says, 
Youre probably wondering what Im 
talking about, hes right.) Robert Greenidges steel drums seem slightly misplaced 
in this tune although they lend melody and 
texture to the piece.
You Got It, another country blues tune, 
blends unusual thumping percussion 
sounds with bass, steel drums, and a flut
tering saxophone. Mahals lyrics are not 
particularly memorable, but anything too 
involved would detract from the joyful 
tone of the song. His smokey voice carries 
well over the voices of the group on key 
parts of the song.
Truck Drivers Two Step takes you on a 
truck trek througout the South. Tajs 
superbly bluesy voice states the sing-song 
lyrics and steps back for a coda of sweet 
ladies voices, sugary steel drums, and 
lilting flutes. The instrumental arrangement 
is somewhat reminiscent of an English folk 
tune.
Another three songs are predominately 
Caribbean in flavor. In Sailin Into Walkers 
Cay, Mahal gives his band its best use of 
steel drums, percussion instruments and 
saxophones. Emulating a great islands 
accent, he sings and speaks the lyrics of the 
songs, advising you that there is great 
fishin mon on this island. The members 
of the band regularly reiterate the name of 
Walkers Cay. The back-up music is a lus
cious mix of pounded and plucked instru
ments, allowing rhythm to dominate the 
piece. Despite itsrepetitive nature, Mahal.
has arranged the song to provide optimum 
interest.
For The Four Mills Brothers, Taj Mahal 
use his best Jamaican accent to expound 
upon the talents of Rudy Vallee, Bing 
Crosby, Bela Lugosi, Mae West and Cab 
Calloway. However, he insists that I still 
prefer to hear the four Mills Brothers sing
ing, I dont got nobody and dont nobody 
got me. The calypso rendition of the 
chorus from the Mills Bros. smoothie clas
sic is very tongue-in-cheek. Again, the saxo
phone and steel jzlrum prove their compati
bility with eac^r other and with the guitar, 
bass, cymbals and bas? drum which form a 
rhythm base.
Honey Babe takes the same instruments 
and arranges them into a reggae format. 
Those who are used to Maurice Whites 
(Earth, Wind & Fire,) deification of the 
kalimba will be disappointed to find it used 
here as only a simple accompaniment in
strument. The song depends on tinney in
struments to make its carefree statement.
Taj Mahals best songwriting and worst 
singing efforts coincide on a delightful tune 
called Baby You re My Destiny. This song 
is an odd potpourri of jazz, blues and 
Calypso. The strummed guitars, lilting sax
es and a scat vocal give it a nightclubby 
feeling. Unfortunately, it shows up the bad 
qualities of Mahals smokey voice when he 
tries to hit notes he cant reach.
The song best suited to ears barraged by 
modern rock music is the instrumental 
Curry. It is the only cut which was not ar
ranged by Taj. Written and arranged by 
bandmember Ray Fitzpatrick, the song 
uses a percussion of thundering drum, 
handclaps, hisses and its whispered title. 
For once, organ is a integral part of the ar
rangement. Steel drums and flute effervescently convey the rest of the melody.
And so, as the thermometer drops be
low zero degrees Fahrenheit, Taj Mahals 
Music Fuh Ya' takes you to places where it 
never gets below seventy-five. Experience 
it; you need it...............................................*

---------------------------------------------------

February 1, 1977 - TARTAN -page 11
PITTSBURGH BALLET'S PETRUSHKA
Ambitious is the term that best desfeels for this character is at times overcribes the Pittsburgh Ballets first offering whelming.
for the second half of the season. PBT Dagmar Kessler was physically perfect 
began 1977 with a program that featured for the role of the ballerina and rendered
Petrushka and Spetre de la Rose, both a solid characterization. The clumsy bruchoreographed by Nicholas Beriozoff, Pas tality of the Moon was captured by Chris
'S de Dix by George Balanchine and Fantasia, 
a world premier by Nicholas Petrov and 
Jose Serebrier. Petrushka was last per
formed in Pittsburgh as part of a Stravin
sky memorial staged in the spring of 1972, 
shortly after the composers death. Gen
nadi Vostrikov had just joined the com
pany then and danced Petrushka to JoAnn 
McCarthys Ballerina. The history of the 
ballet itself has become legend, of course, 
as have the names Stravinsky, Fokine,
Nijinsky and Diaghlev. Petrushka is, then, 
a highly ambitious undertaking. Any per
formance of the work demands strict ad
herence to the original and is inevitably 
compared to it. It is also a masterpiece 
that is unsurpassed both in its technical 
difficulty and dramatic power. The music 
alone is recognized as a milestone in the 
modern repertory since the revised version 
(done in 1947 by Stravinsky himself) ren
dered it more suitable for concert perfor
mance.
All of the elements of the ballet integ
rate into a perfect whole. A phantasma
goria is created when the familiar music is 
brought to life with characters and cos
tumes. The original choreography was 
faithfully preserved here by Nicholas Berio
zoff, a former colleague of the great 
Fokine, and was enthusiastically executed 
by the Pittsburgh company. The role of 
Petrushka calls not only for an excellent 
dancer but a brilliant actor and mime artist 
as well. Alexander Filipovs portrayal was 
skillful and surprisingly effective in its 
depth. He displayed a dramatic quality 
seldom seen in Pittsburgh. The pity one
ligent and cohesive movement of the crowd 
scenes. The Shrove-tide Fair and the dance 
of the coachman and the stable boys pro
vided a remarkable contrast to the puppet 
scenes.
The outstanding Petrushka score came 
through despite a somewhat loose ren
dering by the Pittsburgh orchestra. It was 
performed in a concert last season at a 
much slower tempo under the baton of 
Michael Tilson Thomas. Because of the 
choreography, however, a slightly accele
rated version was necessary with which 
certain sections of the orchestra, the brass 
in particular, seemed uncomfortable. In 
a ballet like Petrushka this is especially 
unacceptable since music and dance 
equally share the spotlight. The piano 
part, which dominates much of the score, 
was played very well by Patricia Prattis 
Jennings.
Highlighting the remainder of the pro
gram was George Balanchines Pas de Dix 
which once again establishes him as one of 
the greatest living choreographers. Spectre 
de la Rose, choreographed by Beriozoff, 
provided a vehicle for some acrobatic 
dancing by Thierry Dorado. Fantasia, a 
world premier by Nicholas Petrov and 
Uruguayan composer Jose Serobrier, 
conveyed conflict and anguish through 
intense movement. The music was per
formed against a backdrop by Salvador 
Dali.
JoAnn McCarthy displayed a skill and 
sensitivity that was unmatched by her two 
male partners, resulting in a work that was 
less than satisfying.
The Pittsburgh Ballet will finish out the 
season with Swan Lake and Symphony in 
C the weekend of March 18 and Giselle on 
April 1. It v'ill be interesting to see their 
treatment of these works.
-Jamie Bell
tian Holder, a guest from the Joffrey 
Ballet. Also superb in his role as the mer
chant was a recent newcomer to the com
pany, Alexander Agadzhanov.
One very distinguishable characteristic 
of Beriozoffs choreography was the intel
SPIRIT WOOD
Country-Rock,
Blues,
Traditional English Folk
Friday, February 4th
9:30 P.M.
Wherrett Room
Refreshments
Funded by Activities Fee
BIBLE STUDY 8:00 P.M. 
CMU'S CHAPEL (Skibo Room39)
The First 
Epistle 
of Peter
SUNDAY MASSES:
7:00 P.M. Saturday Evening
Tech House: 5125 Margaret Morrison
10:30 AJM. Science Hall 
Room 7500
DAILY MASSES:
12:30 Noontime: Monday through Friday
Skibo Room 39
&
H(lhislhe5iRD 
JUfA9Sfl\ Lfakt ANO Sirup.. .
University Oratory of the Holy Spirit Parish 
CMU Campus - Fr. Bob English 
4040 Bigelow Blvd. Pittsburgh. Pa. 15213 
6813181

---------------------------------------------------

EVENTSMUSIC
Fritz Siegal, Concertmaster of the Pitts
burgh Symphony, is guest soloist, Andre 
Previn conducting, in Heinz Hall concerts 
February 10, 11, and 13. Performances 
Thursday at 8 pjn., Friday at 8:30 p.m; 
and Sunday at 2:30 pjn.mark Mr. Siegals 
11th year as Concertmaster here.
Although the Pittsburgh Symphonys sea
son concerts have been sold-out by series 
subscription, tickets are often returned to 
the box office for re-sale. Tickets informa
tion is available by phoning the Heinz Hall 
box office at (412) 281-5000.
Authentic Dixieland music played by the 
Preservation Hall Jazz Band arrives in 
Heinz Hall on March 6, direct from its 
birthplace in New Orleans. The lively old 
gentlemen who preserve this unique form 
of early American jazz learned their art as 
it was being invented in their boyhood 
days, and now bring their spirited perfor
mances to millions of fans yearly during 
their sold-out tour appearances.
Tickets priced at $8, $7 and S5.50 are on 
sale at the Heinz Hall box office and tick
ets counters in Kaufmanns, Hornes, Gimbels and Sears. Group discount rates are 
available by contacting Mrs. Kathy Meyer 
at 281-8185.__________________________THEATRE
The Proposition theatre company will pres
ent their widely acclaimed improvisational 
revue of the same name at the Chatham 
College Theatre, Wednesday, February 16, 
at 8:00 p.m. The program is open to the 
public without charge.
The company was formed six years ago in 
Cambridge, Massachusetts and has since 
appeared at more than a thousand colleges 
and universities as well as in public perfor
mances in Boston and New York. Conceiv
ed and directed by Allan Albert, the revue 
consists of music, games, and stories for 
which the audience is called upon to sug
gest topics, situations, and plots.
Chatham College, a liberal arts college for 
women, is located between Fifth and Wil
kins Avenues in Pittsburgh.
MISC.
ART
The Forbes Street Gallery presents an ex
hibit of paintings and drawings by senior 
students Wendy Gold and Theresa Walsh. 
Feb. 1-6, 1977. Located at 5200 Forbes 
Ave., the gallerys hours are Tues -Sunday 
12-4 p.m. and Tues, Wed, Thursday 7-9 
p.m. This show opens Feb 1 from 7:00 
-9:30 p.m.
Beginning on February 5 KINGPITCHER 
GALLERY will present an exhibition of 
work by NATVAR BHAVSAR. The artist, 
who was first introduced to Pittsburgh in 
a two-man show at KINGPITCHER in 
1973, will exhibit his recent paintings and 
graphics through February 19.
BHAVSAR, bom in 1934 in Gothava, 
Gujarat, India, has been a resident of the 
United States since 1962; living in New 
York since 1965. He attended Gujarat Uni
versity in Ahmedabad, India, and received 
his MFA from the University of Pennsyl
vania in 1965.
The artist will be present for the opening 
of his exhibition on Saturday, February 5, 
from 6:00 to 8:00. For further informa
tion please contact us. Gallery hours are 
11:00 to 5:00, Tuesday through Saturday.
The Alvin Ailey City Center Dance Theater 
returns to Pittsburgh under sponsorship of 
the Pittsburgh Dance Council for three per
formances at Heinz Hall on February 1 and
2 at 8:00 p.m. with a matinee on Wednes
day, February 2 at 2 oclock.
The Alvin Ailey City Center Dance Theater 
program will include works such as Night
days with residency services placed in the 
community; a lecture demonstration will 
be presented by the company at the Play
house Performing Arts Center on Monday, 
January 31 at 8:00 p.m. and a master class 
will be taught earlier that day at 5:00 p.m. 
at the Trees Hall Dance Studio, University 
of Pittsburgh.
For further information phone the Pitts
burgh Dance Council office at 355-0330.
The Alvin Ailey City Center Dance Theater
Creature and Three Black Kings, both with 
music composed by Duke Ellington with 
choreography by Mr. Ailey. Also his fam
ous signature piece, Revelations. Also on 
the program will be Portrait of Billie, a 
duet choreographed by John Butler to re
corded music of Billie Holiday, plus two 
new works the Ailey Company recently 
premiered in New York. Tickets are avail
able at the Heinz Hall box office.
Pittsburgh Dance Council will have the 
Ailey Company in Pittsburgh for three
The Lovelace Theater, Pittsburghs own 
world-acclaimed puppet theater for 23 
years illustrating Margo Lovelaces creativ
ity and artistic imagination here (recogniz
ed by prizes and awards in this country and 
abroad), now opens its Premiere Season in 
a new Pittsburgh showcase  the intimate 
Museum of Art Theater at Carnegie Insti
tute.
But the discounted subscriptions  to en
joy both stage gems  are available now by 
phoning (412) 361-4835 for reservations.
THE GRILL
ANNOUNCING:
THE FIRST ANNUAL SKIBO
TEA 
FESTIVAL
TO CELEBRATE THIS 
RIOTOUS OCCASION, COME TO 
THE GRILL FOR YOUR 
FREE TEA 
DAILY, 3=00 - 4:00 PM
WED FEB 2THRU TUES FEB 8
THE CARNEGIE-MELLON
UNIVERSITY CHORUS
MAX PETERSON, CONDUCTOR
Dedicated to the performance of masterworks of the choral art from the past and 
present, this chorus is open to "All Members 
Of The CMU Academic Community."
Works To Be Performed Spring Semester
Include:
Hadynf Nelson Mass 
and 
Stravinsky, Symphony of Psalms
For Membership Information 
Phone ext. 8614

---------------------------------------------------

National College News
CADETS WANT SAME TRAINING 
PROGRAM FOR WOMEN
A survey conducted at the Air Force 
Academy shows that men and women 
cadets think they should receive identical 
training, and women do not think their 
femininity is endangered by engaging 
in cadet training programs.
The study was conducted in two 
phases  in August at the end of basic 
cadet training (BCT) and in October. 
The population for the first survey in
cluded 41 freshman women; 375 fresh
man men; 115 upperclass cadet BCT 
instructors; and 115 sophomores under
going survival training and not involved 
in training the new cadets.
In the October survey 46 freshman 
women and 243 freshman men re
sponded to the questionnaire.
BCT is a six-week training program 
designed to prepare entering class mem
bers for cadet life. It is divided into 
two three-week sessions and includes 
combat type training.
Lieutenant Colonel Gene Galluscio, 
associate professor of behavioral 
sciences and leadership, supervised 
the conduct and analyses of the 
questionnaire.
For the first portion of the study, 
freshman men and women were asked 
if BCT was as hard physically and 
mentally as they had expected. Women 
said the physical and mental demands 
were somewhat more difficult, while 
men said it was slightly easier physically 
but the mental stress was more than 
anticipated.
All cadets said women should ex
perience the same stress in BCT as did 
the men and they did not see the need 
for a separate training program for 
women.
In October, freshman men and 
women said BCT was necessary to 
prepare them to be officers and it 
increased their confidence in their 
physical and psychological stamina. 
Womens confidence in their abilities 
rose greater than did the mens.
Women strongly dissented when 
asked if they would become less 
feminine as the year progressed and 
if they would lose their femininity be
cause of BCT. Some men did think 
women lost some femininity in BCT and 
were undecided whether women would 
become less feminine.
The mens reaction is interesting, 
since they said that women should 
undergo the same training as they do. 
It appears that men experienced a 
conflict between their traditional con
ception of womens appearance and 
the things women did during BCT, 
Galluscio said.
The women fully understand that 
they were playing traditionally recog
nized male roles during the summer but 
this did not effect their self concept 
as women.
In other words, women knew they 
did not display the traditional ap
pearance of women  they had no 
makeup, wore fatigue uniforms and 
quite often were dirty and perspiring. 
And then, they were carrying rifles and 
learning combat techniques, he said.
A statement which showed widest 
disagreement between men and women 
was whether women were capable of 
doing everything men did during BCT. 
The women said yes they were and the 
men said no.
On the surface there appears to be
greatly differing opinions, but again it 
is a question of interpretation, 
Galluscio said.
Men interpreted the statement
literally while women were more liberal. 
In their remarks, women said they knew 
they were not as fast or as strong as
men. But they felt that, while it may 
have taken them longer, they did every
thing men did, and they thought their 
level of effort was a great as the men, 
he said.
Office of Information, USAF Academy
EX-SMOKERS FEEL 
BETTER, LAFAYETTE 
POLL SHOWS
Do people who are able to quit smok
ing differ from those who cant stop, and 
do ex-smokers undergo physical and 
emotional changes?
Armed with the results of a detailed 
survey, J. Marshall Brown, Lafayette 
College psychology professor, answers 
yes to both questions.
Under Browns supervision, two 
Lafayette students who have since 
graduated analyzed data from more than 
650 questionnaires. Successful ex
smokers  and individuals who had 
stopped temporarily but resumed with
in six months  recorded their attitude 
toward smoking, their motivation for 
quitting, and the strength and timespan 
of their habit.
The results showed that unsuccessful 
quitters and successful quitters, during 
their smoking days, were smoking 
about the same number of cigarettes. 
The male-female distribution and the 
average level of education for each 
group were also very similar.
However, the successful ex-smokers 
and those who returned to smoking dif
fered in important ways. According to 
Brown, the ex-smokers expressed more 
concern with a specific health problem 
or their general well-being. The ex
smokers also were usually older  an 
average of 12 years, and had smoked 
longer  an average of 11 years, than 
their unsuccessful counterparts.
Those who stopped, the researchers 
found, were much more likely to cite 
anti-smoking pressures from their 
family or acquaintances, rather than 
personal desire or self-discipline.
According to Brown, the study also 
showed that giving up smoking brings 
improved physical and emotional health. 
Interestingly, the ex-smokers who in
dicated the greatest pleasure from giv
ing up the habit were younger (under 
42), had smoked less (fewer than two 
packs a day), and had smoked for a
shorter length of time (under 25 years).
On the whole, ex-smokers were im
pressed by their better general dis
position and reduced dependence on 
nerve pills, such as aspirin and tran
quilizers. They also mentioned better 
sleeping habits and greater vitality.
And, though they often experienced 
a weight gain, most ex-smokers re
ported improved breathing and stamina, 
and fewer headaches and coughing 
spells.
Brown characterizes the study as a 
substantial contribution to smoking re
search. A particularly revealing find
ing, he says, is that the health-con
scious smoker and the smoker pressured 
to quit by family, friends, or others have 
the best chance of staying off the habit. 
Lafayette College
SUPER-GONORRHEA 
THREAT
Since the mid-60s, when oral con
traceptives became generally available, 
the number of cases of infection with 
the bacterium Neisseria gonorrhoeae 
has risen at an annual rate of 12%.
Today gonorrhea is an epidemic 
disease out of control.
Since the infected are predominant
ly adolescents and young adults, stu
dents should take notice of the fact 
that the disease is losing its easily 
cured reputation. A new strain of 
gonerrhea-producing bacteria manu
factures an enzyme that kills penicillin, 
the antibiotic used to fight the disease.
The new strain is reported to be 
cropping up at a rate of two or three 
cases per week in the U.S.
The National Center for Disease Con
trol recommends that a patients with 
gonorrhea be checked seven to four
teen days after treatment to confirm 
cure.
If a patient is still infected after 
treatment, he should be treated with 
another, hopefully effective antibiotic.
LAN THORN 
Grand Valley State College
TARTAN
Elections
for
New Editors 
March 9, 1977 
Look for additional 
information in 
future issues!

---------------------------------------------------

Group'
by Bob Firm
Carnegie-Mellon used quick starts in 
both halves to down visiting Thiel 78-64. 
The victory extended the Tartans winning 
streak to a school record eight straight. 
The triumph gave Coach Dave Maloneys 
forces a 10-2 record and a perfect 5-0 
start in the Presidents Athletic Conference 
race. The Tartans last won ten games in a 
season back in 1966-67 when they cap
tured 12 contests.
CMU opened quickly, taking a 10-0 
lead against the Tomcats in the games 
initial three minutes. Ralph DeaBrunzzo, 
starting in place of the injured Greg Cham
bers, and Les Harper were the big guns in 
the opening spurt.
DeaBrunzzo twice fed Harper with fine 
assists for open jump shots. Then Larry 
DiCicco connected from the top of the 
key. DeaBrunzzo completed the string of 
hoops with two long range goals. One bas
ket was the result of a Harper blocked 
shot. Harper, in recent games, has become 
a Human Eraser for his ability to erase 
field goal attempts.
CMU played a little sloppily after the 
opening minutes, but still refused to 
allow Thiel to within eight through much 
of the half. The Tartans put the pressure 
on late in the first half with a 10-2 scoring 
advantage in the last 3:30 of play. Harper 
connected for two field goals, Marty 
Costa canned a bucket and two free 
throws, and DeaBrunzzo added a twopointer to give the Tartans a commanding 
38-22 halftime lead.
CMU broke quickly in the second 
half. George Harvey, an NCAA Division 
III All-American candidate, exploded to 
score the Tartans first ten second stanza 
points. Harvey had been held to only two 
in the first half before the outburst.
CMU was well on their way to victory 
when Maloney started substituting liberally 
in the final seven minutes. The bench got 
much valuable playing time that could be 
important later in the campaign.
Harvey was the leading scorer for the 
Tartans for the eleventh time this season. 
His strong second half performance gave 
him 18 for the night. Balance was again 
a key for CMU. Harper had a fine game
with 14 points, 10 rebounds and a couple 
of blocked shots. DiCicco and DeaBrunzzo 
split 20 markers.
Thiel was led by an 18 point effort from 
senior captain Tom Thiel. The 61 guard, 
as Tartan fans remember, had a horrible 
game last year at Skibo Gym due to an 
intimidating sing-song chant of 
Tommmmmmmy! by Tech rooters. This 
season he calmly swished his first two foul 
shot attempts. He said after the game, I 
had to do something to quiet the crowd. 
Curtis Campbell backed Thiel with a 
strong first half act to score 16 tallies.
CMUs encounter with Case Western 
Reserve last Saturday was cancelled due to 
poor weather and road conditions.
The Tartans will try and maintain their 
perfect PAC record and first place standing 
with two league battles this week. CMU 
travels to Bethany for an 8:00 pjn. clash 
tomorrow night. The Tartans are at home 
Saturday afternoon at 2:00 p.m. to take on 
the always tough Allegheny Gators._______
CMU
PtsRebAssists
Harvey1822
DiCicco1050
Harper14101
DeaBrunzzo1033
Costa661
Hamerly641
Ward430
Hufnagel860
Underhill210----------------
78408
THIEL
PtsRebAssists
Scarpitti000
Beneditto434
Campbell1663
Fantine664
Theirman971
Thiel1832
Wagner320
Lehman041
Simons000
B. Zawayski430
M. Zawayski210
DeHaven200
----------------
643515
_____Still Room on the Ground Floor fa
Computer Engineers&Ftogrammeis
Computer professionals are aware that 
todays most advanced large-system 
technology was developed by a compa
ny that, not too long ago. was virtually 
unknown. It was during late 1975 
when Amdahl delivered its first multimillion-dollar 470V/6 system follow
ing a 5-year. $50,000,000 effortthat 
the company fi rst attracted widespread 
industry attention. Now. Amdahl is 
the most talked alx>ut company in the 
industry: a compact group of hightalent high technologists producing the 
worlds highest |>erforming general 
purjK)se computers. By the end of 1970. 
we installed .W systems valued at 
$14<UXMUMM) worldwide.
The original design team is still 
virtually intact and working on future 
systems. Although we arc growing at 
an extremely rapid pace, we are
committed to retaining the same crea
tive environment that yielded the 
470V/6. We are still small by computer 
industry comparisons: we ended 
197ft with fewer than 800 people. We 
are still friendly. We still enjoy 
attacking tasks because we think 
its fun. And we still reward personal 
efforts with personal recognition.
We think Amdahl is a great 
place to work. Theres still room on the 
ground floor for you if you arealxiut 
to receive a BS or advanced degree in 
electrical engineering or computer 
sciences, and consider yourself a cut 
above your classmates in com|K*tence. 
enthusiasm and |>otential.
Amdahl (orjoration. 1250 Hast 
An|lies Avenue. Sunnyvale. California
9-1081. We are. of course, an equal op
portunity employer. 
Hi in i com nii tn emu/ms In t/ll /Hisitiuns in lui ni ini it mul Ini rihi'n niilnliil suffira tv. II  nii s/Mvificiilln i ulti'i'inri lit/ fur hill'll ilil l't-i'r I otri I stiffifti 11 tlintintisi ic < iit/iin t rs. tit sii/n 
tintinnili mu /H'tM/fii in liters, n ml ennt n 
in'nt/rilmim i s fni nn/' m mi litisi tl 
rnnsnlt.
0N-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS:
Mondav, February 14
SPORTS
CMU STREAK REACHES RECORD
Action from CMU's hockey game with Duquesneamdahl
Les Harper has often excited the crowd with his tremendous leaping ability.
MILLER SCORES AS 1CERS LOSE
by Bill Oakley
After winning their first two league 
games in impressive style the Tartans suf
fered their first loss. 4-2 to the Duquesne 
Dukes at the Civic Arena. The first two 
periods of play in the game belonged to the 
Dukes, and it was not until the third period 
that the Tartans were able to get going.
In the first period of play it was obvious 
that CMU was not playing well. The Tar
tans passing game was not clicking, and 
their shooting was off. This enabled the 
Dukes to jump to a quick 2-0 lead. Duquesnes Osborne scored both goals, the 
first coming on a screen shot that Tartan 
goalie Don Jacobson did not see, and the 
second coming on a short shot from in 
front. Despite the Tartans lackluster play 
they did manage to notch a goal. Bill 
Miller drove a wrist shot past the 
Duquesne goalie Sutliff. Ken Trumpfeller 
and Jack Arturo picked up assists on the 
goal. The Dukes outshot the Tartans 10-6 
for the period.
The second stanza saw the Dukes con
tinue to hold an edge, while the Tartans 
were unable to shake off their sloppy play. 
Duquesne scored 2 unanswered goals to 
increase their lead to 4-1. A CMU defensive 
breakdown enabled Barnes to score from in
front, and Bartek fired a quick slapshot 
past Jacobson from twenty feet for the 
second goal of the period. The shots on 
goal showed Duquesne holding the edge, 
9-7.
The final period of play brought a turn
around as the Tartans snapped out of their 
slump and began to dominate play. CMU 
held the edge in shots, 11-2, but despite 
this advantage they were only able to put 
one goal behind Duke goalie Sutliff. Mark 
Jonnatti scored at 6:28 of the period on 
feeds from Tom Grimm and Bill Oakley. 
After Jonnattis goal the Tartans had 
several opportunities to score, but they 
could not find the equalizers.
The Tartans league record is now 2-1 
and they are second in the Western Penn
sylvania Intercollegiate Hockey League. 
Their next game is Saturday against Cleve
land State, at Cleveland, and their next 
home game is February 12, against Indiana 
University of Pennsylvania at Lake Vue 
Arena.
Shots
CMU 6 7 11 -24
Duquesne 10 9 2 -21
Goals
CMU
Duquesne

---------------------------------------------------

February 1. 1977 - TARTAN -page 15
bv Gordon Morrison
Girls ByNippedThiel
INTRAMURAL NEWS
The Carnegie-Mellon University 
Womens basketball team lost to Thiel 
36-32 in a surprise game on Wednesday as 
part of a CMU-Thiel basketball doubleheader and had their game with California 
State College of Pa. cancelled.
The game with Thiels team was arran
ged last spring but then calcelled when it 
was believed that Thiel was bringing the 
mens varsity and junior varsity teams, so 
there would be no room for the women on 
the bus and nowhere to play the game. 
But on Tuesday (the day before the game) 
it was learned that Thiel did not have a 
J.V. team, so they were bringing the 
womens team instead. On such short no
tice, it was decided that officials could 
probably not be found by the next night, 
so it was decided to use the mens J.V. 
officials, who were supposed to be there 
to officiate the J.V. game. (The officials 
were not informed of the cancellation 
either). But someone must have contacted 
them just prior to game time to tell them 
that there was no game, so there were no 
officials at the game even after game time. 
However, quick action by Mr. Birdy saved 
the day. He called two officials that appar
ently lived nearby and the game was star
ted only 20 minutes late. Even with all 
the bad luck before the game, things only 
got worse after that. The CMU team out
played, outrebounded, and outhustled 
Thiel the entire game, but could not 
manage to make the shots. Thiel only
managed a one point lead by halftime, 
17-16. The second half was close with the 
lead changing hands several times. Thiel 
tied the score at 32 all with 1:58 left in 
the game. Thiel then scored twice in the 
next 46 seconds to lead 36-32 with 1:12 
left to go. The next two trips downcourt, 
CMU worked the ball around for a good 
shot, but missed. With 17 seconds left in 
the game, both teams panicked and threw 
the ball away so many times that the CMU 
statistician could not keep up and quit 
taking stats. The game ended with Thiel 
on top, 36-32.
The game was the most physical and 
brutal womens game that I have ever seen. 
It reminded me of an Intramural game 
(mens or womens). To add to the bad 
luck already mentioned, Gale Gammerdinger will be out of action for 2 or 3 
weeks with a badly sprained ankle.
Leading the scoring were Driana Davies 
(who shot 44%) and Terry Preskar with 
10 points. (Terry made some great passes 
to Driana, who kept getting open in the 
middle of the key.) Ingrid Goedicke and 
Mary Patrick each had three points, while 
Karen Azinger, Janet Axtell, and Laura 
Cooper each contributing a basket. A 
trio of CMU players did a great deal of 
rebounding. Laura Cooper had 17 re
bounds, while Driana Davies and Mary 
Patrick each had 10 with Ingrid Goedicke 
contributing four.
The next game is scheduled for 
Thursday at Duquesne at 6:00.
Saturday will be Kitchen Band day 
at the Skibo Gym. The brothers of Pi 
Kappa Alpha will begin the festivities 
with the opening tap. The game represents 
the second big hurdle for the Tartan 
basketball squad and all who attend are
sure to be treated to a great contest. 
Coach Dave Maloneys Tartans have 
been undefeated since the formation of 
the Band. Join in on the festivities! 
Dont miss what could be the biggest 
event here at CMU this year!
A short baseline jumper by Dan Bergmann,the 511 jumping jack from Abington 
High School gave the Celtics a surprise 
overtime win over a shocked SAE squad, 
48-47.
The game was a seesaw battle through
out and it took a last second shot by Bill 
Mackin of the Celtics to put the game into 
overtime. It looked as though the SAE 
hoopsters would pull it off as the Celtics 
big man, Roy Parker, fouled out with just 
8 seconds left in the game but Mackin had 
something to say about that as he made 
a tough basket from underneath. The 
Celtics used an effective stall in overtime, 
setting up for the good shot as they had 
just about all the height that they have 
with the exit of Parker. SAE had outscored 
the Celtics 4-3 in overtime when Bergmann 
came through with his shot. Parker led the 
way for the Celtics with 11 points.
In other major league action, Katoosh 
and ATO remained undefeated with Ka
toosh taking two contests as ATO won 
their only encounter.
Katoosh beat SAE 50-49 as Izzy 
Schwartz hit for 17 points. Schwartz hit 
for 16 of his total 23 points in the first 
quarter as Katoosh drilled ZBT, 54-42. 
Mark Prazer led the always tough ATO 
men past a willing Phi Kap team 5548. 
Prazer ended up with 16 with Frank 
Massaro chipping in 10 points of his own.
)14 STANDINGS
Team W L
Katoosh 3 0
ATO A 2 0
Supa Stars 1 0
G.S.I.A. 2
BTP A 
Pride 
Reality 
PKA A
Nerd Knockers 
Celtics 1 2
High Flying Kites 0 2
ZBT A 0 2
SAE A 0 2
CMU WRESTLING TOURNAMENT - 
OPEN TO ALL CMU GRADUATE AND 
UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS, 
FACULTY MEMBERS AND STAFF
WHEN: Practice sessions scheduled for the 
weeks of January 31February 3 and 
February 7  10.
HOW TO ENTER: Fill out entry form - 
include name, your weight and team 
(if any), return to I.M. office by Wed
nesday, February 2nd. Entry forms 
available in Room 104 Gym.
WT. CLASSES: Tentatively - 125, 135, 
145, 155, 165, 175, 190,205,Hwt. 
MATCHES: A Black Mark double elimi
nation system will be used. Every 
wrestler is guaranteed at least two 
matches. Collegiate Rules  each match 
4 minutes long, 1-1H-1H.
AWARDS: Awards given to winning indi
viduals and winning team.
The I.M. Volleyball All-Star teams were 
released this week from the Department of 
Intramural Athletics.
Bob Dar (Coaches All-Stars) and Mike 
Pochan (SAE) were co-MVPs as both had 
excellent seasons. The first team consisted 
of spikers: Bob Dax (All-Stars), Mike 
Pochan (SAE), Larry Pasternak (All-Stars) 
and Bruce Whitney (All-Stars); and setters: 
Dax (All-Stars) and Jay Russo (GSIA). The 
second team had spikers: Bob Ammermau 
(GSIA), Phil Karleton (Feva), Dave Messersmith (SAE) and Walt Tauche (All-Stars) 
and setters: Pete Dixon (All-Stars) and 
Phil Karleton (Feva).
TOP MAJOR LEAGUE SCORERS
1.Schwartz (Katoosh)20.0
2.White (Supa Stars)15.0
3.Sautowski (G.S.I.A.)14.6
4.Hopkins (Pride)13.0
5.Gerzsenski (High Fly. Kites)13.0
6.Dillen (Nerd Knockers)12.5
7.Chandler (SAE)12.5
8.Coates (Pride)12.0
9.Mensch (Pride)12.0
10.Pattison (High Fly. Kites)12.0
11.Massaro (A.T.O.)12.0
12. Fountain (S.A.E.)12.0
for the weekend.*52?per day plus 10c 
per mile
10Eas tWil0 0i 
owGwlWi rWi
You pay for the gas and return car to any location listed. Available Friday noon 
'til Monday noon. Or if youre planning a trip over the Christmas-New Year holi
day, try Nationals 6-day rate on a Nova or similar car for $119. You get 1,000 
miles at no extra charge on this ONE-WAY rate. Bring the car back to Pittsburgh 
and theres no mileage charge! You pay for gas. Rates are non-discountabie 
and subject to change without notice. National also has 6 and 7-day rates on other car sizes. Call for reservations today:
4621 Forbet Ave. (Oakland) 682-1444
550 Grant Street 261-5500
Greater Pittsburgh Airport 262-2312
We feature GM cars.
*Rato subject to chango wrthotii notice
National Car Rental

---------------------------------------------------

page 16- TARTAN - February 1. 1977
ab concert 
presents
MAYNARD
FERGUSON
in concert
Friday, February 11th, 
8:00 P.M.
Carnegie Music Hall
Reserved Seating
TICKETS:
$4.00 with college I.D.
$6.00 without
Tickets available 
at Skibo Info Desk
FEBRUARY3 1230
WHERRETT RMHOW PEOPLE MAKE DECISIONS 
IN THE SUPERMARKET
J. RUSSO 
GSIA
sponsored by Campus Program Planning
THURSDAY
AFTERNOON
LUNCHEON
FORUM
