oume 82, Issue 11rtan
Carnegie Mellon UniversityNovember 17,1987
INSIDE
FEATURES..... ..........Page 13
Uncle Duke comes to campus and hot 
times on ice
SPORTS.....................Page 24
Football takes its final snap, basketball 
prepares for the opening tipoff
J
FEATURE FURSEU .PUaEgeR 1U3APE3
H&SS 
Three Seats
Georgia Sine___
Allen Greenberg 
Matthew Ruben
87
80
.78
CFA 
Two Fall SeatsM
Audrey Liu
Dave Jacowitz...........................19
, i* , ,/ -V
Two Spring Seats
<Ari Skear 13
Chris Neighbor..._______ _____8
IM
I MiOne Seat
Don Dennis.........
CIT
Three Fall Seats
Dustin Frazier.....
Vidal Graupera
Kishore Rao-----
Karen Pavlosky.. 
Charles Jainchill
A
...120 
113 
.112
87
One Spring Seat 
Christian Herrick84
MCS 
Three Seats
Erica Levy........................................85
Mark Steppel...................................68
Stu De Jong.........................................8
Referenda
Are you a smoker? Do you think that 
Carnegie Mellon should A) permit, 
B) control, C) ban smoking in pub 
lie areas on campus?
permitcontrolban
smokers: 39278
non-smokers: 27273242
other: 275
total: 68307255
Do you feel that there should be a 
moratorium on trailers on this campus?
Yes: 460 
No: 135
Should those trailers already on 
campus be removed?
Yes: 380 
No: 206
Total Votes...................672
Voter Turnout.........10.8%
IFC Gives ATO Social Probation
By LILLY MANSOUR
Tartan Staffer iter
The Interfratemity Council (IFC) last week 
voted 9-4 to place Alpha Tau Omega (ATO) 
fraternity under social probation.
The vote took place during an IFC meeting in 
the Adamson Wing at 9 pm on Tuesday, 
November 10. The IFC had to decide whether 
or not ATO would be penalized for its actions 
on pledge night. The decision was made de
spite much controversy.
On pledge night, ATO was involved in sev
eral incidents including a fight which resulted 
in the injury of several Delta Upsilon (DU) 
brothers.
Other incidents involved confrontations with 
other houses, namely, Phi Kappa Theta and the 
sorority complex. On pledge night, Phi Kap 
decided to break the yearly tradition in which 
both houses urinate on one another, due to 
problems with ATO last year. ATO, however, 
insisted on following tradition and forced their 
way on Phi Kaps porch. An ATO brother 
started the fight and a Phi Kap was injured 
while protecting a little sister.
Later, ATO members invaded sorority 
houses, despite an outdoor reception planned 
by the sororities for any house wishing to 
chant. ATO chanted and vandalized property 
in the houses. Among reports of damage are 
missing toilet seats.
These incidents were brought to the attention 
of Dean of Student Affairs Brad Walter who 
asked the Chief Court Justice Todd Tomczyk 
to investigate the issue. The Interfraternity 
Investigative Committee compiled a report 
which recommended that no action should be 
taken for any specific incident that occurred on 
pledge night. The committee also suggested 
that a fair and comprehensive set of guide
lines for pledge night activities should be 
constructed to prevent future incidents.
However, in the Interfraternity Court Dispo
sition Statement issued by Tomczyk, recom
mendations were made to place ATO under 
social probation.
While Tomczyk agreed with the investiga
tory committee that no action should be taken 
for any specific incident that occurred on 
pledge night, he recommended that some
thing be done concerning the whole night in 
general. ATO is greatly mistaken if they 
believe that they can indiscriminately harass 
any Greek organization that they want at any 
time that they want, stated Tomczyk.
In the Court Disposition Statement, 
Tomczyk recommended that ATO be placed 
on a three week social probationary period 
running from January 7 to January 28. Specifi
cally, ATO will not be allowed to have an 
open party, poster for any event, or turn on
continued on page 3
Counseling Center Responds
FEATUREO3 2USE4I *hretsE3 FAgagTU 
woSrURU33
i
By SHIZUKA OTAKE
Tartan Staffwriter 
^ Following the apparent suicide of Carnegie 
Mellon junior Thomas Godfrey on Nov. 8, 
there were training sessions for Resident 
Assistants to increase their awareness of sui
cide and to ask them to watch out for anyone 
who seemed depressed and feeling hopeless.
Besides the training sessions, the Counseling 
and Student Development Center, located in 
More wood Gardens E Tower, has spoken with 
^ faculty and administration members who had 
concerns over the death. In addition, the Cen
ter has been in touch with Michael Murphy, 
Assistant Director of Housing and has offered 
to have group sessions with anyone who knew 
Thomas Godfrey, a service offered after any 
death on campus.
Dr. Lorrie Rabin, Director of the CounselingI
and Student Development Center, voiced con9 cems that his death would affect members of 
the student body. However, she stated that In 
my years working here there is usually no 
increase in suicide attempts after a suicide. 
What happens is that more students do visit the 
! Center to talk about concerns. She expects an
increase in student visits for the next few 
weeks.
For those who are harboring thoughts of
continued on page 61
First there was foreplay...
...and then there was Sex Bowl *87. Above: Schlag 3A huddles before answering a question at the Sex Bowl finals last 
Thursday in the Morewood Gardens Rec Room white the Mudge team looks on. See story and additional photo on page 7.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanNovember 17,1987
/> /MTllfiaik.a<WiKi ) m iiiaa%iiivoiaia>.:*uSm %\** wwvr/ Mar/ a
lpFp 1UiUaE3 nrEUcSO3 
uSPP der 2grUaE 6SP%3
WASHINGTON (AP)  The United States 
immediately rejected Nicaraguan President 
Daniel Ortegas renewed call for a direct dia
logue with the U.S. to settle differences.
The U.S. ambassador to the Organization of 
American States, Richard McCormack, said 
after Ortegas speech in Washington that 
President Reagan had laid out strict conditions 
for re-opening diplomatic contacts with 
Sandinista officials.
In a speech Monday, Reagan had said that he 
would agree to open discussions with Nicara
gua only if other Central American leaders are 
present and if the Sandinista government 
shows serious intent in pending cease-fire 
negotiations with the Contras.
In his speech, Ortega also renewed a pledge 
to open a dialogue through intermediaries with 
the rebel leadership.
wrSv >USTUr3 2UtSRT 
:APd *Sr uUS3U/MgrU
AMMAN, Jordan (AP)  Ending their sum
mit, Arab leaders Wednesday condemned Iran 
for seizing Iraqi territory and demanded an im
mediate cease-fire in the 7-year-old Persian 
Gulf War.
King Hussein of Jordan proclaimed a new 
birth for Arab unity.
Earlier, the 21 -member Arab League refused 
to readmit Egypt, but gave its members per
mission to restore relations with that country. 
Six Arab countries will do so, sources and 
news reports said.
Syria and Iraq agreed to end a long feud, but 
summit leaders were unable to persuade Syria 
to pledge to stop supporting Iran against Iraq in 
the gulf war.
The statements, in the final communique of 
a four-day Arab League summit, reflected 
Arab fears of Iranian threats against Persian 
Gulf Arab states, particularly Saudi Arabia 
and Kuwait.
The communique also underlined the unex
pected advances the emergency summit made 
towards healing Arab rifts and achieving a 
long-sought unity.
The meeting was called to discuss the gulf 
conflict. Iran, although Moslem, is not an Arab 
nation. Iranians are Persian.
Despite Syrian efforts to mute criticism of its 
ally, the Arab League called on Tehran to 
comply with the United Nations Security 
Councils July 20 cease-fire resolution.
rSg hPSRU3 wEESa%UT 
MgCU F4gs3 gR :APd
MANAMA, Bahrain (AP)  Iraq said Fri
day its warplanes attacked five vessels off the 
Iranian coast in an unprecedented massacre 
of ships. Some crewmen were reported killed 
and a tanker and a tugboat were said to be on 
fire.
In Iran, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini called 
for urgent victory over Iraq in the 7-year-old 
war, fueling speculation that a big Iranian 
offensive was imminent.
The escalation of the aerial campaign against 
Irans oil lifeline raised to 11 the number of 
reported Iraqi strikes in the gulf since Nov 9.
Gulf shipping executives said Iraqi jet fight
ers fired radar-guided Exocet missiles at the 
Iranian-chartered tugboat. An unspecified 
number of crewmen were reported killed.
Baghdad Radio, quoting a military commu
nique, said the fighter-bombers scored accu
rate and effective hits and returned safely to 
base. The report did not provide the exact 
location of the attacks or say if they resulted in 
casualties to the tankers crew members.
.DsPe3geR RiArU3 LN 
wE IUgrAE wgrserE
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP)  An explosion 
shook Beirut Airport in the Moslem sector of 
the city Wednesday, and witnesses said there 
were casualties among passengers.
One witness told the Associated Press that a 
powerful bomb went off at 3:58 pm (8:58 am 
EST) at the airports main entrance.
The witness, who insisted on anonymity, 
said he saw at least four people lying on the 
floor with blood soaking their clothes.
A briefcase packed with explosives went off 
at the airport passenger terminal in Syriancontrolled west Beirut, killing the woman 
carrying it and wounding 40 other people, 
police said.
He said Syrian troops guarding the airport 
entrance fired machine guns in the air to dis
perse people and make way for ambulances to 
evacuate the casualties.
Police said a Syrian soldier, who was stand
ing guard at the entrance, was among the 
casualties.
The Syrians banned reporters and photogra
phers from covering the event.
*4gEU YeA3U 1UPUS3U3 
FAttgE Fa4UTAPU
WASHINGTON (AP)  Soviet leader 
Mikhail Gorbachev is expected to arrive in 
Washington late in the day on Dec. 7, hold 
three days of working meetings with President 
Reagan beginning Dec. 8, and depart on Dec.
10, the White House said.
ASgrggSR&GHFUPd FEerScU
uhrgCSEU FEerScU 1eet3
PROTECTED
ELECTRONIC SECURITY & 
LIGHTING FOR EACH 
STORAGE ROOM
MONITORED 
24 HOUR CENTRAL 
STATION MONITORING 
FOR FIRE AND INTRUSION
CONF1DENTAL 
COMPUTERIZED 
GATE ACCESS 
CONTROL
ACCESSIBLE 
DRIVE IN ACCESS 
WITH INDOOR 
LOADING DOCK
LOCATED IN 
SHADYSIDE 
5871 CENTRE AVE.
687-8673
I 20% OFF FIRST MONTH RENT I
 Offer expires 12/31/87 I
I Show coupon to receive discouiif^^MIIZZZZB YBY & Ydg Z VBp
W
BAUM BLVD.
?f v,>_
CENTRE AVE
1UScSR KStU3 5ATcU 
8URRUTW Ee Ygc4 ueArE
WASHINGTON (DJ)  President Reagan 
announced Wednesday that he was naming 
Judge Anthony Kennedy to the Supreme 
Court. The President praised Kennedy, a 
Federal Appeals court judge from Sacra
mento, as a true conservative and said he 
represented the best tradition of Americas 
judiciary.
A former tax attorney in San Francisco, 
Kennedy has been on the U.S. Appeals court 
for 12 years.
Kennedys legal philosophy on business 
isnt well known in Congress, but much of it 
has already been reviewed by the Supreme 
Court  with mixed results that are likely to 
be raised by both sides in his confirmation 
hearings.
Several decisions written by Kennedy have 
been reviewed by the court, many of them 
reflecting his conservative approach to anti
trust and other legal issues affecting business.
Thursday, as the nominee to the high court 
began making courtesy calls to some senators, 
Senate leaders met with President Reagan to 
discuss whether the hearings will begin next 
month or in January, but they reached no 
agreement. A decision is expected this week.
Kennedy i s Reagan  s third nominee to fill the 
court seat vacated when Justice Lewis Powell 
retired June 26.
His first nominee, Judge Robert Bork, was 
defeated by the Senate. His second nominee, 
Judge Douglas Ginsburg, withdrew his name 
following disclosures that he has smoked 
marijuana.
IATcUE 6SP%3 ueAPT 
2UPSW wAEetSEga uAE3
WASHINGTON (DJ)  House Majority 
Leader Thomas Foley, D-Wash., said the Nov. 
20 deadline for across-the-board spending 
cuts under Gramm-Rudman act could be de
layed for five to 15 days, possibly longer, if 
agreement is reached before that date on the 
broad outlines of a bi-partisan deficit reduc
tion plan.
Foley said the delay certainly would not go 
past this session of Congress.
The House Majority Leader, who has been 
chairing the White House-Congressional 
budget summit negotiations, told reporters 
early Friday afternoon I predict we will reach 
agreement.
Under the so-called Gramm-Rudman fix,
Friday is the day when across-the-board^ 
spending cuts are supposed to occur to meet 
this years deficit reduction target of $23 bil
lion, if the target is not met by other means.
Foley said that if agreement on a budget 
accord is reached, there should be no problem 
in delaying implementation of the so-called 
sequester order. He said he was talking about 
a limited brief delay to implement a deficit 
reduction agreement.
Elaborating, Foley said the delay could be in 
the range of five to 15 days or longer.
uSrPAaag FAsserE3 uAE3 
R lpFp BgPgESrW MeraU3
WASHINGTON (DJ)  Frank Carlucci, 
President Reagans nominee for Defense 
Secretary, said he would consider shrinking 
U.S. military forces and scrapping a few 
weapons systems because of budget cuts.
Testifying before the Senate Armed Services 
Committee, Carlucci took a decidedly differ
ent line than his predecessor and longtime 
mentor, Caspar Weinberger, who has contin
ued planning for a buildup and criticized 
Congress for refusing to provide the funds to 
support it.
Throughout his testimony, Carlucci, who is 
currently the Presidents National Security 
Adviser, seemed reconciled to the reality that 
budget pressures have ended the Reagan mili
tary buildup.
According to estimates by budget analysts 
inside the Pentagon, the departments fiveyear budget plan may be as much as $400 
billion out of whack.
Ye3sgESP FAU3 BeE4Ur 
nd 6rSR3sPSRE hSEgURE
PITTSBURGH  Childrens Hospital last 
week sued Maria DeSillers, whose son re
ceived three liver transplants last spring, for 
$261,000 in unpaid bills.
Her 7-year-old son, Ronnie, died after re
ceiving the third transplant. )
Speaking in Miami, DeSillers said, I have 
withheld final payment because I feel that my 
son is not a piece of meat.
Hundreds of contributors donated money for 
the operations.
.CUrW MrgTSWCOLLEGE NIGHT
n ATTENTION ** 18 SO YEAR OLDS!
HOT MUSIC and DANCING TILL 2 AM 
DOORS OPEN AT 9 PM 
ADMISSION $5.00 IID REQUIRED) ^
^  j-i MUST BE 21 FOR ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 
 y DRESS JEANS PERMITTED
Fulton Building  Sixth Street  281-0349

---------------------------------------------------

November 17,1987The TartanPage 3I
hrU3gTURE uWUrE REUrCgUoUT eR *1u6
By JOSH RUBEN
Tartan Staffwiter 
WRCT interviewed Carnegie Mellon Presi
dent Richard Cyert last Monday evening in a 
two-fisted effort to make the president more
* accessible to the campus community while 
boosting the stations own image.
WRCTs General Manager Neil Greenblum 
said that this was the first of what he hopes will 
be a series of shows with the president. Were 
fulfilling our mission, said Greenblum, who 
also hosted the show. He said that WRCT has 
an obligation to help present public affairs 
programming and spark campus awareness. 
 We have some big identity problems on this
<&
campus, added Greenblum, and shows like 
this help the stations image.
Cyert was very anxious to do the show, 
Greenblum said. He complimented Cyert by 
saying, He is one of the most accessible 
college presidents in the country. 
Greenblum said that he did not have any 
specific plan or outline for how the show 
should be run. Both [Cyert and WRCT] 
wanted most of the questions to come from the 
callers, Greenblum stated, I had about 20 
questions on hand, but only got to about six of 
them because there were so many callers. 
According to Greenblum, WRCTs call-in 
talk show format is a very important tool for
photo by Karl Bamhait
Workers clean the outside of Baker Hall early last week. The Frew Street side of Porter 
Hall was finished two weeks ago, and work has progressed to the front of Baker Hall.
January 7 to 28
w6n 1UaUgCU3 7 *UU% hrevSEgeR
continued from page 1
their mixer sign for any reason. A $500 fine 
jf,- and an extension of the probationary period to 
the end of February will be accessed if the 
probationary period is violated.
When the IFC voted Tuesday, they voted on 
the Court Disposition Statement prepared by 
Tomczyk. Furthermore, because it was pre
pared at the last minute, the only two houses to 
read Tomczyks report before the meeting 
were ATO and DU.
The original report, which was presented to 
all houses, recommended a two week proba
tionary period with an extension of the proba
tionary period to December, and this was the 
issue the Greek organization representatives 
put before their house members to vote on. 
Therefore, the house representatives were 
voting on a different punishment than the 
ones they presented to their house members. 
^ The only representative, however, that felt that 
strongly about this inconsistency was the rep
resentative from Delta Gamma (DG) who at
tempted to table and vote next time, but she 
received no second.
There was much discussion among the repre
sentatives Tuesday night. Sigma Nu insisted 
that the Court Disposition statement should be 
upheld. The Sigma Nu representative said that
9 things should be nipped in the bud while 
they are small incidents in order to prevent 
them from becoming more serious. This view 
was especially supported by some of the so
rorities.
Two sororities were so angered by ATOs 
invasion that they announced that they will be 
proposing amendments to the constitution to 
protect their houses.
Despite ATOs behavior in the sorority cornallowing the campus public to air their com
plaints, ask their questions, and make com
ments. He put a heavy emphasis on the impor
tance of the campus media in providing such a 
service to the campus public.
The show went on live at 7 p.m. last Monday 
and ran 15 minutes longer than its scheduled 
one hour due to the large number of people 
who called in. Greenblum said that he was not 
really worried about people calling up to sim
ply call Cyert names on the air. Even though 
a lot of people on campus disagree with Cyert, 
he is a very nice man and people will still show 
him respect.
The show, like all of WRCTs live talk 
shows, worked on a six-second delay which 
allows the shows engineer to bleep out any 
foul language that might go out over the air.
Some of the issues discussed were Cyerts 
duties as president, of which he said, [The 
President] has to manage time and work long 
hours. Another important issue which came 
up, due to a phoned in question, was the recent 
U.S. News and World Report ranking of the 20 
U.S. colleges and universities, which did not 
include Carnegie Mellon.
Cyert claimed that most college presidents 
(who were the people polled for the rankings) 
do not take the survey seriously. He added that 
presidents cannot be expected to rate an entire 
school. They do not have the specialized 
knowledge of each department like the deans 
do.
Cyert also commended the outstanding 
diversity of the school. He responded to a 
Caller by saying the humanities and art depart
ments often do not get the same attention as 
the engineering and computer departments do. 
We will try to get additional publicity for 
H&SS and CFA, he said.
He added that additional funds have been 
made available to the schools music depart
ment because, in recent years, that department
had been slipping. He confessed that, 
Without CFA, this would be a dull campus.
Other questions involved the quality of life 
on campus and the new student center. Cyert 
said of the project, Were going to try to raise 
as much of the needed $30 million from out
side sources (i.e., alumni donations, grants, 
etc.). However, we may have to ask the trus
tees if it would be possible to use some of the 
endowment funds [for the project].
Cyert said that the decision to redesign the 
centers award winning design stemmed from 
the fact that it was a design which was way 
over budget. Cyert said the first building 
priority for the school is the new dorm, which 
should take about two years to complete, after 
which construction will begin on the student 
center.
Cyert responded to the harsh criticism he 
received in the recent evaluation of his duties 
by saying, [Criticism] is part of the game. Of 
the individual students who come to see him, 
Cyert said, Most students dont have criti
cisms as much as they do individual problems. 
This is why we have an ombudsman.
Just before the show closed, Cyert specu
lated on the state of Carnegie Mellon. He said 
that in 10 years, CMU will have led a revolu
tion with computer networking and software 
engineering. Also, the school's campus 
would be one of the most beautiful in the 
country and that the school would be consid
ered one of the top three or four schools in the 
country in all fields of study. He ended by 
saying, Intellectual activity is the heart of this 
school.
Both WRCT and Cyert are anxious to do 
another show. Cyert said that he enjoys inter
acting with the campus public in this way and 
had nothing but praise for Greenblum and 
WRCT after the show. Greenblum said that 
the next show will probably be scheduled in 
February, followed by another in April.
plex, DG held that rules and guidelines should 
be set up beforehand, and ATO should not be 
punished as another fraternity caused prob
lems at DG last year and was not punished.
ATO added that they only bother people on 
pledge night and that it was not a regular affair.
Tomczyk, however, brought up the point that 
it is impractical to list every minor rule be
cause many are common senseyou cant 
beat up other brothers for example. Also, 
continued Tomczyk, it is not possible to wait 
until the rules and guidelines come out to dis
cipline offenders.
It was also mentioned that this should not be 
seen as an opportunity to punish someone, but 
to correct things and set up guidelines for the 
future.
Another issue was the fact that Tomczyk, the 
Chief Court Justice, is also a DU brother and 
some houses felt he may have presented a bi
ased report. Although someone brought up the 
fact that this needs to be prevented in the 
future, it was shown that Tomczyk was ap
pointed to his position in the spring and there
fore not much could be done about it.
Some representatives believe Tomczyk used 
neutral justices in compiling his report and in 
making recommendations. In addition, Ron 
Campana, the Greek Advisor, said that the 
administration supports the Investigatory 
Committee and he feels that they were compe
tent and fair. As for his opinion on Tomczyks 
report and recommendations, he believes that 
the Chief Justice went about it in a very pro
fessional manner and that no bias was in
volved.
He declined to comment upon the final deci
sion, however, as he has not yet received an 
official report.
IA34 -g3gE3 hgEE3vArc4 
Mer -UEUrSRO3 2SW
Election 88 Netvs
Vice President George Bush visited 
Pittsburgh Wednesday to march in the 
Veterans Day parade and to raise money 
for his presidential campaign.
Bush spoke at a 
private reception 
and luncheon 
which drew a 
crowd of 145 
people and raised $ 120,000.
The Vice President defended his loyalty 
to President Reagan. ...I feel good inside, 
and the fact that some of these commenta
tors and Doonesbury dont understand 
itI couldnt care less about it.
Bushs remarks were flavored with patri
otism and his own political record.
uSRTgTSEU hredgPU 
wPUDSRTUr YSgc 5rp
The Cold Warrior of the presidential 
candidates is Republican Alexander M. 
Haig Jr. This former Secretary of State and 
general has a large name recognition, but 
fares poorly in the polls.
His credentials, however, are excel
lenttours of combat in Vietnam and 
Korea, staff officer at the Pentagon and 
West Point, and commander of the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization. He has 
served both Republican and Democratic 
Administrations.
The 37-year veteran of the army entered 
the political arena when Henry Kissinger 
hired him as his assistant early in the Nixon
Administration.
Haig later became Nixons chief of staff 
during the height of the Watergate crisis. 
He is widely credited with keeping the 
executive branch functioning almost 
single-handedly.
President Ford appointed Haig to the 
NATO post where he served until 1979. He 
returned to the U.S. and was a professor at 
the University of Pennsylvania and presi
dent of United Technologies until Reagan 
asked him to be Secretary of State.
In the Cabinet, Haig was often at odds 
with Secretary of Defense Casper Wein
berger and other Reagan appointees. 
Though he was an effective Secretary of 
State, he was not viewed as a team player 
by key White House aides. He resigned 
after 18 months with the administration.
Haig has little domestic policy experi
ence, but is well-versed in foreign policies 
issues. He has focused attention on terror
ism and has urged for a tough stand against 
the Soviets. As Secretary of State, he pio
neered the Reagan Doctrine, which calls 
for the end of Soviet expansionism by 
arming Third World insurgents to fight 
Soviet-backed governments.
Weird habits: He often lapses into 
Haigspeak, a dialect characterized by 
verification of nouns and multisyllabic 
words.
Words that will come back to haunt him: 
In 1974, when asked about the erased 18 
minutes of conversion on a crucial Water
gate tape, Haig suggested that there was a 
sinister force at work in the White 
House.
In 1984, when President Reagan was 
shot, he uttered the immortal words, I am 
in control here in the White House.

---------------------------------------------------

The Presidents Distinguished Lecture Series
presents
1evUrE hSPtUr
New York Times Pop/Jazz Music Critic 
discussing 
ROOTS OF ROCK
Monday November 23 
3:30 pm
Wherrett Room, Skibo 
Admission is free

---------------------------------------------------

November 17,1987The TartanPage 5
c
&
Richard Garwin Speaks on Star Wars
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan Assistant News Editor
In the 1950s two men were instrumental 
in designing the hydrogen bombDr. 
Edward Teller and Dr. Richard L. Garwin. 
In 1983 Teller convinced President Reagan 
to develop the Strategic Defense Initiative, 
known as Star Wars. Since Reagan an
nounced plans to develop Star Wars, Dr. 
Garwin has been one of its leading oppo
nents.
Carnegie Mellons Program on Interna
tional Peace and Security invited Garwin to 
campus as part of its fall seminar series. He 
spoke on Nov. 9 in a crowded Wean 7500.
In a presentation entitled SDI and Its Re
lation to Nuclear Offensive Forces Garwin 
detailed why he feels a strategic nuclear de
fense is impractical and his alternative pro
posal to eliminate nuclear weapons.
Garwin is an IBM Fellow at the Thomas J. 
Watson Research Center.
The Presidents dream is desirable, not 
feasible, contended Garwin at the begin
ning of his talk.
Because countermeasures could defeat 
the effectiveness of SDI, Garwin stressed 
that continued development of the system is 
foolish.
With this argument of countermeasures, 
he countered claims that anti-Star Wars 
scientists are technical pessimists. Be
cause he believes cheap countermeasures
 dummy warheads, space mines, etc.  
could render billions of dollars worth of 
technology useless, Garwin considers him
self an optimist.
Proponents of Star Wars have sold the sys
tem as a way to prevent an accidental nu
clear war. Dr. Garwin instead proposes 
adding an explosive on missiles that carry
photo by Eric W. Leuliette
Richard L. Garwin speaks in Wean.
nuclear warheads that could be triggered 
by a radio command. Civilian space rock
ets are equipped with similar safety de
vices.
Garwin, a mild-mannered speaker, fin
ished his talk with his plan for a strategic 
military offense and defense. His plan 
limits each superpower to 1000 warheads 
and includes treaties that would ban anti
satellite weapons and tests of nuclear ex
plosives.
The physicist also calls for continued 
funding for ballistic missile defense, 
though at a much slower rate than Star 
Wars research.
Astronomer Carl Sagan and Dr. Garwin 
were scheduled to debate the head of the 
Strategic Defense Initiative Lt. Gen. James 
A. Abrahamson and another prominent 
Star Wars proponent.
Alumni Share Career Experiences
By ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Tartan Contributing Editor
Are you curious about your future? Ever 
wonder what a professional in your major 
actually does every day? Do you want help 
exploring majors, investigating career goals, 
and initiating professional contacts? Then 
Career Connections is for you.
This career fair will be held on Thursday, 
November 19, in the Skibo Ballroom and 
Wherrett Room from 2 pm to 5 pm. Alumni 
from nearly every major available at Carnegie 
Mellon will be available to answer any ques
tions you may have about their jobs, educa
tion, applying for employment, and the career 
experience in general.
This program is for everyone, from seniors 
trying to clarify their career objectives to 
freshmen who are trying to decide what to 
declare as a major, stated Karen Litzinger, 
Associate Director of Career Development of 
the Career Services and Placement office. In 
its second year, Career Connections has grown 
into a very successful program.
Students are used to seeing job fairs, and the 
idea of a career fair was just a unique good 
idea, Litzinger said. The fair was well at
tended last year, and even more students are 
expected this year.
It should be noted that this is not a job fair, 
and these alumni are not representing their 
companies, only their career fields. Career 
Connections gives students an opportunity to 
speak informally with professionals individu
ally or in small groups on a walk-through basis 
without the hassle of being scrutinized by 
recruiters.
These alumni have been invited by the 
academic departments on campus and are 
eager to help students by sharing their career 
experiences and answering any questions they 
can, Litzinger said.
A list of all the alumni participating and the 
majors represented is available in the Career 
Services and Placement Office in Warner 
Hall. It will also be available at Career Con
nections. Registration will take place just 
outside the Ballroom.
Ever consider writing 
news? The Tartan is 
looking for news hounds for 
the spring semester. If you 
are interested, call the 
Tartan at x2112 or Karl 
Barnhart at 521-4884 for 
more information.
%
1988-89 
RESIDENT ASSISTANT 
INTEREST SESSIONS
WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 18
8:00 pm CAROL APT #10 (CENTRE AVE) 
9:30 PM WHERRETT ROOM (SKIBO)
* ATTEND ANY ONE SESSION REGARDLESS OF 
WHERE YOU LIVE, OR WHERE YOU WOULD 
LIKE TO BE A RESIDENT ASSISTANT
* YOU MUST ATTEND ONE SESSION TO PICK UP 
AN APPLICATION
* APPLICATIONS DUE THURSDAY JANUARY 21, 
1988
* IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS PLEASE 
CONTACT THE HOUSING OFFICE AT X2139
Would you like help with .
 exploring majors?
 investigating career goals?
 initiating professional contacts?
In a walk-through setting, Carnegie Mellon 
alumni will informally share their perspectives on
 their jobs and industries
 their career decisions
 their Carnegie Mellon education
Who  All majors, all class levels 
When  Thursday, November 19 
2 00 - 5 00 PM 
Where  Skibo Ballroom
amegie
FEFATT
Alumni participant Hat aval lab In Caraar Sacricaa and Placamant. 1 Wamar HaN. 20*4

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanNovember 17,1987
Quality of Life Report Presented to Student Senate
By CHRIS YOUNG 
Tartan Staffer iter
Last Tuesday at the Student Senate meeting, 
Paul Christiano, Head of the Civil Engineering 
Department, officially presented CMUs 
Quality of Life Report, a document compiled 
by five committees and advocating five rec
ommendations for the University.
The first recommendation was to increase 
students opportunities to receive a broader 
education. To attain this, it was proposed that 
CMU add a winter term of about three weeks, 
while cutting each of the existing semesters 
back one week. Students would then be re
quired to take a class which fulfills no other 
requirements.
Another proposal was to offer more debates,
open houses, and fine arts performances, re
quiring students to attend a minimum number 
of them.
Some of the remaining recommendations 
were to recruit a more diverse student body 
and to produce greater balance in the male/fe
male ratio, as well as make administrative 
changes so that someone at the V.P. level will 
work directly with Quality of Life issues.
After the Quality of Life report, Tamal 
Mukherjee, Chairman of the Funding and Rec
ognition Committee, presented the Senates 
budget, which would subsidize $40,309 for 
various Carnegie Mellon University organi
zations. Following questions concerning indi
vidual club subsidies, the budget, as listed in 
last weeks Tartan, passed.
Under new business, a proposed referendum 
was passed to poll students views on smoking 
in public places. Results of the poll would help 
the senate recommend a uniform policy to 
CMUs administration. Questions would read 
as such: Do you think that Carnegie Mellon 
should A) permit, B) control, C) ban smoking 
in public places? This would include areas 
such as dining areas, libraries, classroom 
buildings, restrooms, dorm lounges, hallways, 
etc.
Elsewhere in new business, a Trailer Refer
endum passed to discover student opinion on 
whether or not there should be a moratorium 
on campus trailers. In addition, Bergers reso
lution on Free Speech Policy passed. It re
quests that the University institute an on-site
registration system for people engagingin free 
expression. All that is required in the registra
tion is a presentation of CMU I.D. or name of 
the organization the person is affiliated as well 
as possibly the persons name, address, and 
phone number.
Finally, Hal Levine proposed to change las,' ) 
weeks referendum on the Student Union to 
say Should Student Union be funded by 
Senate? After a much heated discussion, it 
was passed to remove the entire referendum 
that was passed last week. Following this, the 
Senate members were reprimanded by Senate 
Chairman Goldstein for being wishywashy. He said that the Senate should stick 
to their ideas and not change their minds )) 
Senate should...get its act together.
5168 PENN AVE.Pkwte 363-(
fx KuY
h.hh.1nK h^^w ?Lp,/D
FSEArTSW ff St / _ St
FARTSW E4reAc4 MrgTSW 7 st / _ St
Counseling Center Reacts to Death
continued from page 1
suicide, or are having problems, there is a 
counselor on call 24 hours a day at 268- 
2922. Even when the Counseling and Stu
dent Development Center is closed, a staff 
member can be reached through an answer
ing service.
After Godfreys death, Dean of Student 
Affairs Brad Walter expressed concern that 
it may become romanticized, idealized and 
become a catalyst for those who already 
have serious emotional or psychological 
problems. He explained that after the last 
suicide on campus in 1985, there were no 
other suicides but there were many students 
who expressed the desire to kill themselves 
through gestures of suicide.
An example of a gesture would be a person swallowing pills, then calling a hospi
tal. These gestures, he stated, were not 
actual attempts but calls for help and atten
tion.
If someone you know has expressed 
thought of suicide or you feel that someone 
is suicidal, call the counseling center, talk 
to a RA, or someone else you can trust. 
What you can do is listen, involve some
body else, and try to convince the person to 
go to the center for counseling. Most im
portant of all, Rabin says Use your judg
ment. If you truly fear someone is suicidal, 
dont leave them alone, and never concede 
to someones wish for privacytell some
one else, even if you have to break a prom
ise. Breaking that promise could save a 
life.
f)
?)
Want to know Departmentwelcome to bring
about what isRelocations inyour own lunch,
happening atvolving Hamburgof course.) Free
Carnegie Mellon?Hall and thesoda, coffee and
In the third in aMargaret Mortea will be
series of informalrison buildingavailable.
lunch hour disA question andFaculty, staff,
cussions onanswer periodand students are
Monday, Novemwill follow eachcordially invited.
ber 23, keypresentation.
Carnegie MellonNoon-1 p.m.
administratorsThe Office of StuMonday,
and faculty willdent ActivitiesNovember 23, 1987
talk about:and the UniverWherrett Room,
v'sity RelationsSkibo Recent TopDivision will pro
Media Storiesvide free brown
About Carnegiebag lunches forMellonthe first 75
 Current Uniattendees at the
versity ResearchNovember 23 
session. (You're

JP
o
CJ
Whats
New
at
Carnegie
Mellon?
Noon-1 p.m. 
Monday
November 23,1987 
Wherrett Room, 
Skibo

---------------------------------------------------

November 17,1987The TartanPage 7
Crime and Incident 
Report: 11/6 to 11/12
11/6 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 11:03 pm 
Persons unknown punched a hole in the wall 
between Entropy and the Art store in Skibo. 
The hole was approximately one ft. by three ft.
11/7 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 3:52 am Per 
C sons unknown reported that a door frame had 
been pulled out and a toilet paper holder had 
been pulled off the wall in the first floor mens 
room of UCC.
11/9 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 7:37 am Per
sons unknown ripped the carpeting off wall of 
the elevator in More wood Gardens D-Tower. 
' 11/10 THEFT 10:40 am A student reported 
that his black 100% cashmere coat was reO moved from the first floor mens room of 
Margaret Morrison Hall. The value of the coat 
was $150.
11/10 THEFT 8:44 pm Persons unknown 
removed a wallet from a large canvas bag in 
Hunt library. The bag was sitting on a table. 
The wallet contained $2 and personal papers.
11/11 VEHICLE ACCIDENT 2:23 am A 
witness reported that a white Saab slid into a 
silver Toyota parked on Margaret Morrison 
Street. The Saab and its driver left the area.
11/11 THEFT 12:34 pm Persons unknown 
removed a black, double-breasted blazer from 
a female students room in Donner Hall. The 
value of the blazer was $90.
11/11 THEFT 11:09 am Persons unknown 
took some tapes from a male students room in 
Donner Hall. The tapes were removed from 
r, the victims desk. No value was reported for 
the tapes.
11/12 THEFT 5:24 pm A tan Toyota Corrola was removed from the Skibo visitors lot. 
The car had been rented from Avis. The value 
of the car is not known.
11/12 THEFT 4:51 pm Persons unknown 
removed a wallet from Wean Hall. The wallet 
contained $5 in cash and various credit cards.
Schlag 3A Team Wins Sex Bowl
By DANIEL STODOLSKY
Tartan Staffwriter 
How many prostitutes are there in the 
United States? a) 100,000, b) 500,000, c)
1.3 million, or d) 2.4 million ?
Why is amniocentesis usually per
formed? 
What percent of men marry older 
women? a) 10, b) 20, c) 30, or d) 40 ? 
Can you get an abortion at CMU?  
These questions and others were an
swered in the Sex Bowl 87 finals. The 
Mudge team, in bright red Sex Bowl 87 
Champs T-shirts, squared off against the 
Schlag 3 A team in a battle for sexual domi
nance.
The rules were similar to Family Feud. 
The two teams sat face to face in two rows 
of chairs, hands on their knees. When the 
question was read, a player would raise his 
hand to answer. If he gave the wrong an
swer, the other team would have five sec
onds to caucus and give an answer. The first 
team to correctly answer 10 questions 
would win.
The finals were the culmination of a single 
elimination tournament. The game started 
in Mudge, Doherty, and the on campus 
apartments as part of the human relation
ships program in October. About 100 
people participated. The Mudge C1 team of 
Tom Adams, Paco Vinoly, Abigail Ochberg, Michael Kirscht, and Romel Jacinto 
emerged victorious. After this success, 
Cindy Sammons, the area coordinator for 
Mudge and planner of the games, decided to 
offer another round for the rest of the cam
pus. In this round, about fifty people partici
pated, including teams from Kappa Kappa
photo by Daryl Thomas
Sex Bowl teams from Schiag 3A and (left) and Mudge (right) listen intently.
Gamma, the Investment Club, and graduate 
students from the Statistics department. When 
the dust settled, Kevin Marsh, Marc Rosten, 
Terence Spies, Eric Peters, Marvin Chang, and* 
Andrew Haughton from Hamerschlag 3 A rose 
undefeated.
Both teams were very confident before the 
final showdown. Mudge predicted victory for 
themselves, but the fast hands and awesome 
knowledge of Eric Peters proved to be their 
undoing. Peters beat the Mudge team to the 
buzzer again and again with the right answer.
In response to the question How far can a 
guy ejaculate: a) 10 inches, b) 1 foot c) several 
feet d) a mile ?  Peters responded C - speak
ing from personal experience, while scoring 
a point for his team. The judges and several 
members of the Schlag team blushed, while 
Peters laughed with amusement
After the match, the Schlag team was asked 
how they prepared for this competition. Our 
whole lives have been preparation, re
sponded Terence Spies. Peters also admit
ted to reading the book Our Bodies, Our 
Selves. Questions for the final round were 
taken from mostly The New Our Bodies, 
Our Selves. Other questions tested the par
ticipants knowledge about infertility, birth 
control, and sexually transmitted diseases.
Sammons, the event coordinator, had par
ticipated in a sex bowl during graduate 
school at Michigan State University. She 
brought the idea with her to Carnegie Mel
lon. The competition was so popular that 
several teams asked her to hold another Sex 
Bowl during the spring semester. Sam
mons indicated, however, that the Sex 
Bowl will be an annual event. It was spon
sored jointly by Housing and Student Af
fairs.
(The answers to the questions at the be
ginning of this article are c -1.3 million, To 
check for birth defects, c - thirty percent, 
and no.)
r. fraternity
novemBER 20th
Tickets go on Sole flovember 16th 
Sponsored by Koppo Alpha Theto Asthma Foudotlon

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Weve Got Those Registration BluesI)
Once again, registration is upon us, and with it comes long lines, short nights, 
and sleeping bags littering the hallways. But does it have to be that way? In a 
school with computer resources such as ours, it is surprising that no one has come 
up with a way to simplify this semi-annual annoyance.
Pre-registration has helped to make progress, but only in certain majors, and 
only for certain required courses. For most other courses, students still have to 
wait in long lines and hope their courses arent filled before they get to the front.
The university, it seems, makes very little attempt to accommodate students 
course choices; popular courses fill up easily, while unpopular courses retain 
many open spots. Would it be so hard to expand the capacity of certain courses 
and limit others? The only result would be happier students.
Faculty might claim that they anticipate the number of students who might 
want a course, and plan accordingly. But it is clear there is no accurate algorithm 
being used to gauge course interest. One example is FEAETURSE.P Ua gSEe13O. 
2U31EP4h Any student who tried to get into this course will tell you it filled up very 
quickly, and many people were forced to settle for the UPrEe 79-12x course.
An extremely simple solution is to survey students much earlier in the 
semestera sort of pre-pre-registration. Most students have an idea of what 
they T1 be taking the next semester, or they at least know what courses they might 
be interested in pursuing.
Such a survey would give departments more than enough time to arrange 
additional rooms, professors, and teaching assistants. The maximum number of 
students would be served, and the least number inconvenienced.
One can say that things dont always work out that well in the real world, but 
students are paying for this education; shouldnt they take courses they will 
enjoy and learn the most from?
Another solution is one recently implemented by Ohio State: registration by 
telephone. Students there are assigned a window of times during which they 
can call the registrars computer and, using a push-button phone, choose their 
courses from the comfort of their rooms. With 64 incoming phone lines, the 
chances of a busy signal are slim.
Of course, the most important thing that must be implemented is that tPswE.Pt 
orU oO.P PU POlE 3UsetEt 1. PrE1e SOpUe SstP iE n1AE. Re1Ue1P4c A sad but true 
fact is that there are writing majors walking around who will not take a writing 
course next semester because the courses were filled by MCS and CIT students 
who are taking them as electives. This is unacceptable.
If Carnegie Mellon wants to improve its image, it has to start by taking care of 
its students.
Letters:
Student Denies 
Validity of Letter
Editor:
I am writing in response to the World Ac
cording to Me series appearing in The Tartan 
in recent weeks.
Being a Christian, I was, needless to say, 
surprised to see that my Lord had a Compu
Serve ID. But knowing that He is not currently 
living in Canada, I quickly put two and two 
together and realized the letters in The Tartan 
were the work of a phony.
All humor aside, my point in writing this is 
not to refute what those letters sayI think 
they speak for themselves.
Rather, I would like to point out that there 
was a real historical figure named Jesus 
Christa man radically different from any the 
world had ever seen.
This Jesus spoke of lovenot just mushy 
feelings and butterflies, but love that showed 
itself in actions.
He spoke of compassionand He demon
strated it to the people through powerful mir
acles. He shamed the religious leaders of His 
day by exposing their self-righteous hypoc
risy. And finally, He paid the ultimate price of 
dying like a common criminalthe price due 
for your sins, and for mine.
This Jesus words are not old, crusty sayings 
or pipe dreams of heaven on earth. They are 
fresh, poignant, challenging words which 
reveal an insight into the human heart that only 
its creator could have.
I personally have found Him to be all that He 
claimed to be.
No, He doesnt offer you the chance to eat 
any food you wanted all day long and never 
become fat. But he does offer you freedom
from the guilt of your sin, and a new start on 
life with Him by your side. I challenge you to 
consider anew the real Jesus Christ.
Scott Huffman 
Computer Engineering 88
Free Expression of 
Ideas Is Educational
Editor:
Im one of the proponents of free speech 
referred to by Thomas A. Heim in his Conser
vative Comer column of November 10.
I agree that the CMU campus is private 
property and thus that the University has the 
right to limit free speech on the campus.
However, as a member of the University 
community, I think I have a right and respon
sibility to express my view as to what the 
policy of the University should be. I assume 
that the Student Senate, in its free speech 
resolution, is doing the same.
The resolution, as I read it, does not question 
the right of University administrators to set 
policy; rather, it urges that the policy be one of 
free speech.
Mr. Heim specifically raises the example of 
hearing Neo-Nazis on your way to class as 
not having much to do with getting an educa
tion.
I, on the other hand, think it has a great deal 
to do with education. It seems to me that 
openly exposing bad ideas to the sunlight of 
free discussion and critical examination is 
much more desirable than pushing them un
derground, where they are likely to fester.
I have grave concerns about someone in 
Warner Hall deciding which ideas I or my 
students need to be insulated from. I recom
mend John Stuart Mills classic book, On 
Liberty, to Mr. Heim for a superbly wellthought-out essay on the implications of lim
iting the free expression of ideas.
Jim Hoburg
Professor, Department of Electrical and 
Computer Engineering
Explanation of 
Happy Hour Events
Editor:
A letter in response to the November 10 
article on the damages caused by September 4 
Happy Hour:
First and foremost, a sincere apology is in 
order to Dean Fienberg from the students in
volved in Design Happy Hour. We are truly 
sorry for the damage and inconvenience that 
you have suffered and hope repairs can be 
made.
Secondly, a statement of facts is in order to 
The Tartan and campus community from the 
persons involved in the incident. The very 
simple story:
A student, unfamiliar with usual clean-up 
procedures involving disposal of the large 
amount of ice remaining after Happy Hour, 
took it upon himself to melt the ice in the 
Design department sink (located in an un
locked space next to our studios, for our use). 
While this is the normal procedure we use to 
dispose of ice, it is not ideal, and certainly 
time-consuming.
In his attention to the remaining clean-up 
(which, incidentally, included some leftover 
mess on the second floor), the student 
unintentionally left the water running in the
sink with the garbage bag of ice.
Hopefully, this clarifies the accidental nature 
of the incident.
Design Students involved in 
September 4 Happy Hour
Senate Shouldnt 
Change Referenda
Editor:
During Senate elections last week, students 
were asked to vote on two referenda placed on 
the ballot only the night before election^ ) 
commenced. Neither of these questions con
cerned the Student Union, despite nearly two 
weeks of heated campus debate. Instead, the 
Student Union question was dropped and 
replaced with two: one on smoking in public 
places, and one on banning trailers.
The Senate, by changing referenda questions 
the night before an election, is doing a disserv
ice to the campus community. Give us a break! )
Students need time to discuss the issues prior 
to votingin the student newspapers, elec
tronic Bboards, and in groups.
A deadline of at least one week before the 
election should be enacted for the adding or 
deleting of referenda questions. After all, 
Senators running for office must submit peti
tions 2 weeks in advance.
If Senate will give the campus time to discuss") 
the issues they want to help solve, voter re
sponse should increase. Isnt that what Senate 
wants? Or do they want uninformed knee-jerk 
reactions from the students to their last-minute 
knee-jerk referenda questions?
Milton Smith 
Arch 88

---------------------------------------------------

November 17,1987The TartanPage 9
, Conservative Corner...
>S1eAa4U 3 Be3E 2SRcUreA3 hrU3gTUREgSP uSRTgTSEU
By THOMAS A. HEIM
On Tuesday, November 10, several repre
sentatives of the Lyndon LaRouche Presiden
tial Campaign came to campus to talk about 
their candidates stance on issues. The first 
striking difference 
between a main
stream Presidential 
candidate and the 
LaRouche campaign 
is that the representatives who came to speak 
for LaRouche are walking, talking clones of 
the ideology Lyndon LaRouche has taught 
them to believe, as if they believed (and they 
seem to) that the Absolute Truth were spoken 
through LaRouche himself.
I took this opportunity to try to assimilate the 
LaRouche ideology into some consistent 
themes.
The outside appearances of an almost ran
dom series of policies LaRouche wishes to 
pursue left me with only very fundamental 
themes from which such policies would be 
derived.
The highest law that LaRouche seems to 
observe is that human existence must be ex
panded to the point where the Earth holds 50 
billion people. I asked LaRouchees the rea
son for this, and received two reasons. Simply, 
1) People are good 2) God commanded that we 
go forth and fill the Earth.
Not only should we eventually fill it, but no
steps can be allowed to push back the popula
tion.
Hence, no humans anywhere can be allowed 
to live a life near death, lest they die. It seems 
that one human life has no actual upper limit in 
value; it must be saved without bounds, pro
viding others are not lost. It seems that a lot of 
the LaRouche platform can be explained when 
this law is seen as the highest objective.
From what I have seen, LaRouche has writ
ten volumes on all aspects of life and society, 
and I will take the time only to touch upon what 
I find most threatening to Americans, should 
his policies ever become influential.
1) LaRouche believes America is on the 
brink of an economic catastrophe.
Since this would threaten Americas ability 
to promote life in other nations, it must be 
stopped.
In order to do this, he would, upon being 
elected President, declare a National Emer
gency, nationalize the Federal Reserve, force 
interest rates between 1-2%, suspend the free 
markets, and fix the price of gold and other 
commodities.
I asked one of the representatives about the 
enormous benefits the commodity futures 
markets currently pay to the stability of the 
economy.
Among his responses to a hypothetical ques
tion about cotton, You have to ask yourself, if 
cotton is selling at 80 cents per bushel, what
about the man who cant pay that much? It 
seems to me that the man doesnt deserve the 
bushel in the free market. LaRouche blames 
much of the catastrophe that he sees upon the 
free market system. As such, he would throw 
it out.
2) As president, LaRouche would undertake 
massive job programs.
The representatives talked about a second 
Panama Canal, a gigantic network of African 
railways, a project to divert rainwater from 
Canada to Mexico, and, of course, his goal of 
colonizing the Moon and Mars (because it 
would give us technology to better populate 
the Earth).
When I asked about financing these hefty 
projects, they replied that they wont cost 
anything.
3) AIDS threatens much of the population. 
LaRouche is famous for, if nothing else, ad
vocating quarantine of the 5 to 10 million 
AIDS cases in the United States. To do this, 
testing of every man, woman and child 
would be requireda dubious task given the 
accuracy of tests on a large population with 
relatively few positive results. LaRouche 
would quarantine these 5 to 10 million indi
viduals, many of whom will be incorrectly 
marked with positive test results.
When I asked about the current presumed 
characteristics of the virus, a representative 
conceded that it did not seem to spread as 
easily as other viruses, but it could always 
mutate.
That showed me that LaRouche is willing to 
effectively imprison 10 million Americans on 
the chance that the AIDS virus may mutate 
into an easily spreadable form.
LaRouche is, on ideological grounds, funda
mentally at odds with a free America. His 
pursuit of expanding life on Earth means to me 
that he is willing to trade the freedom of 
Americans, along with their standard of living, 
to provide what will only be temporary fixes to 
other nations.
Today, America is pursuing technologies 
and policies to help advance agriculture. Af
rica and other nations will one day benefit even 
more than they have in the past.
It seems clear to me that LaRouche would 
rather see 200 million Americans on suste
nance life-styles if a few million Africans 
could get the chance to extend their life expec
tancy by a few years.
I think this kind of policy would reject any 
potential Americans had for promoting longlasting prosperity in Africa, and tum the world 
standard of living to a long-term decline.
LaRouche has no respect for American tradi
tion, and the bulk of his support is obtained by 
playing a combination of fear and guilt of the 
future into signatures and support for La
Rouche candidates, and LaRouche himself.
It was clear at the meeting that the represen
tatives were well-trained in theatrical dramat
ics, yelling in the face of questioners in the au
dience, tearing up American currency, 
screaming, this piece of paper is so worthless, 
you cant even wipe your a*s with it!
These tactics are not surprising to me, since 
such an unstable and haphazard ideology 
needs some kind of bonding to replace that 
which reason and common sense do not pro
vide them.
One of the most insulting and degrading 
practices they used was to rephrase questions 
asked by the audience. One observer asked a 
question about banking, only to be rudely 
smothered by a LaRouchee who insisted, 
What you are really asking... and What she 
really wants to know is... followed by a 
loaded, slanted assault against the American 
system.
The representatives at the meeting came 
across as mesmerized worshipers who are 
infatuated with a man they revere like one 
would a God.
This attitude is not indicative of an ideology, 
well-thought-out and grounded. It is an ideol
ogy of almost cult-like roots that is promoted 
by playing on human emotions.
Im glad I had a chance to hear them, and Im 
sure others who do will come out with the 
same conclusion I did: no presidential candi
date would do more to harm what I consider to 
be the American system than Lyndon La
Rouche. No candidate has ever told me that 
unless I vote for Lyndon LaRouche, I favor 
genocide.
It seems to me that Carnegie Mellon students 
ought to show these LaRouche followers the 
kind of reason that has built America. Do not 
be intimidated by their personal attacks on the 
policies of your Party; tell them what you 
really think, like I did at the meeting and am 
doing here, about a presidential campaign 
centered on cult practices.
The Tartan
Editor-in-Chief______________Russ Seligman
Managing Editor.....___________David N. Levy
Business Manager____ ____Mark R. Benish
News Editor_________________Karl Barnhart
Assistant News Editor.................Eric Leuliette
Features Editor.............................Howdy Pierce
Judy Haraburda
Sports Editor________________Stewart Levine
Assistant Sports Editor___________David Brill
Diversions Editor__________ ___Bruce Kasrel
Assistant Diversions Editor___ Michael Rose
Photo Editor________________Glenn Schuster
Art Editor_...........__...___Grant Carmichael
Literary Editor....__________Michele Osherow
Production Manager...........................Drue Miller
Ad Manager ..............................Celeste Clark
Copy Manager...........................Nancy St. Louis
Contributing Editors.............................................
Lisa D. McAnany Olve Peerson
Albrecht T. Powell John Friedmann
Neil Greenblum Andrew Gillespie
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Metton University 
It is a weekly newspaper, published by students each Tuesday during 
the faH and spring semesters, at no cost to members of the university 
community It is pnnted by Typecraft Press Inc Subscriptions arc 
available for $15 per semester $25 per year The Editorial appearing 
at the beginning of the opinion section is the official opinion ot The 
Tartan editorial board Column are the opinions ot individual au
thors who are not necessarily on Tha Tartan editorial board or staff 
Letters to the Editor are opinions ot individual authors who are 
usually members of the University community A letter intended for 
publication must be signed and include the writer's address and 
phone number lor verification Names wil be wrthhetd upon roqueat 
The Tartan reserves the nght to condense or reject any tetter or 
column Copyright  1987 by The Tartan The edrtonal board re
serves the right to withhoid from publication any copy It deems unM tor 
pubticsfton
Office: Skibo 50 (412)268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17 / Carnegie 
Mellon University / Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
Funded in part by the Activities Fee AN rights 
reserved. Library of Congress ISSN #. 0890-3107.
/>
Ji
Slightly to the left....
hePgEga3 ttARU Ee 1US3eR
By MICHAEL FRANZINI & 
MICHAEL WITBROCK
Since 1981, AIDS has struck nearly one 
out of every one hundred Americans. The 
number of people carrying the AIDS virus 
in the United States is almost as large as the 
population of New 
Zealand. It is not 
yet clear whether 
all of the carriers 
of the virus will 
die of AIDS. It should be clear, however, 
that we are in the midst of the most serious 
health crisis ever faced in this country.
The country is not facing the crisis very 
well. The stigma surrounding the sexually 
(homosexually, in the eyes of most politi
cians) transmitted disease has been getting 
in the way of government action against 
AIDS. The failure of federal agencies in 
managing the crisis can be traced back to 
the deadly coincidence in 1981 of the arri
val of the overtly homophobic Reagan 
Administration with the arrival of AIDS.
The traditionally anti-Reagan Congres
sional stance is hardly noticeable when it 
comes to AIDS. Congress recently ap
proved Jesse Helms bill, which prohibits 
funding of any AIDS-educational pro
grams which condone homosexual activ
ity. Homophobia has permeated our na
tional legislature to the extent that a con
sensus can ratify the idea that a homosex
ual life is of less value than any other life. 
The legislators do not consider the facts to 
be important: the fact that education in the 
gay community has been so effective that it 
has reduced the number of new AIDS cases 
among gays below the number of cases 
among intravenous drug users; the fact that 
this educationeducation which may lose 
all federal support after the Helms bill 
has saved the lives of many gay men, many 
human beings.
For the first time ever, federal health 
agencies are being challenged in a civil 
class action suit which charges them with 
arbitrary and capricious behavior in 
managing the research and release of AIDS
drugs. The plaintiff, the National Gay 
Rights Advocates (NGRA), is suing on 
behalf of the two million Americans carry
ing the AIDS virus. The NGRA charges the 
federal agencies in the research and review 
process with deliberately delaying the 
development of certain AIDS drugs for 
political reasons. They charge also that the 
National Institute of Health spent several 
million dollars allocated for experimental 
AIDS drugs irresponsibly.
Seven years of intense (and, until re
cently, desperately underfunded) research 
has produced a variety of drugs which re
lieve some symptoms of the virus and pro
long the lives of people with AIDS. The 
protracted bureaucratic process which im
pedes the release of these drugs is at fault 
for shortening the lives of thousands of 
people. Should a cure for the virus be found 
in the near future, the lethargic bureaucracy 
will be at fault for the loss of many of these 
lives.
Recently, a Texas newspaperthe 
Austin American Statesmanquestioned 
the presidential candidates on AIDS-re
lated issues. Some candidates acknowl
edged that AIDS was a deadly threat to 
society, which must be fought with wellfunded federal research and education pro
grams. Four of the Republican candidates 
emphasized (the congressional view) that 
AIDS education must stress traditional 
values and discourage immoral [read: 
homosexual] behavior. Robertson 
wouldnt deign to discuss the disease, and 
Jack Kemp vowed to continue his legisla
tive crusade to expose all carriers with 
mandatory AIDS testing.
The malicious positions of these Republi
can politicians makes it clear that the end of 
the Reagan administration is not necessar
ily good news. The American voter faces 
the same choice as Reagans successor: the 
choice between punishing the victims of 
AIDS, ensuring its spread throughout the 
population, or funding the research, treat
ment, and, most of all, the appropriate edu
cation which can stop AIDS, dead.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanNovember 17,1987
Inquiring Minds Are Off To See The Wizard
By THE INQUIRING STAFF
There once was a little girl named Dorothy. 
One night a tornado came to her house in 
Kansas, bringing with it five rejection letters 
from really good schools, carrying her to the 
mythical land of CM.
Her house landed on 
top of Skibo, smash
ing it into smither
eens (it was a reallybig house). She quickly left the cheering 
crowd of bystanders and entered the castle 
Morewood Gardens with her dog, Toto. The 
evil DA of the lobby refused her passage. All 
pets, except for tropical fish, are not permitted 
in the residence halls, she quoted from the 
Residence Handbook, and Toto was whisked 
to the city pound.
Dorothy walked out across the street to the 
frats where she had a drink. A pledge walked 
up to her and said, Hello, Im a tin man and 
Im searching for sexual satisfaction, can you 
help me?
Well, the brave little girl didnt quite know 
how to respond. Id like to, but I dont think 
I can. Maybe we can find someone who can 
help you, too. I want to get my dog and get into 
an Ivy League school.
Chapter 2I am Jesus
U
I was sort of hoping you could help. Oh 
well. Maybe the Wizard of Carnegie Mellon 
can help us! replied the pledge.
They walked across the yellow brick road to 
the UCC, where they saw a shaking junior 
slaving over an Andrew.
Who are you? asked Dorothy.
Im the LION@Andrew. Please help me. I 
lost my heart in my work, and I want it back. 
I havent slept or showered in three weeks. 
Dorothy replied, Well, maybe you should 
come with us. Were searching for the Wizard 
of Carnegie Mellon. Hes promised to im
prove the quality of all of our lives. The tin man 
is going to get sexual satisfaction, Im going to 
go to an Ivy League school, and you might get 
some free time.
But, if I go, someone else will take my 
workstation, and Ill never get my program, 
paper, lab, and three problem-sets done! 
Oh, dont be a weenie; come on! said the 
tin man. And so the lion joined them.
They went to CFA, and the lion trembled in 
fear as they approached. Ive never been in 
that building before. Its supposed to be full of 
freaks and weirdos!
Oh come on, said Dorothy, they cant be 
any worse than those sickly creatures you left
behind at the cluster. Who knows, maybe this 
is where the wizard hides.
Eventually they dragged the lion into the 
building, where they met Akram Midani. 
You certainly couldnt be the wizard, said 
Dorothy.
Im afraid not; in fact, its been so long since 
the wizards answered one of my phone calls, 
I wonder if he even exists any more, replied 
the old man. You wont find him in here. The 
last I saw him he was conjuring up trailers 
behind the building.
They ventured up to the mezzanine practice 
rooms, anyway. A senior music student 
moaned, If only I had a brain and could get a 
job when I graduate.
Why cant you get a job? queried Dorothy. 
Whos going to hire a scarecrow trained in 
jazz bagpipes? he replied.
Why dont you come with us, implored 
Dorothy, were off to see the wizard, the 
wonderful wizard of CM. Because, because, 
because, because, because, because of the 
wonderful things he does...
What are you on, lady? Oh, why not. Ive 
already wasted almost three and a half years 
here.
They ventured back across the cut to a glass
building. After a half hour, they managed to 
open the doors and then travelled up a high and 
winding staircase until it stopped at a little 
door.
Is there anyone in there? asked Dorothy. 
Go away. Cant you see Im trying to raise 
$200 million and finish networking the carr. > 
pus by next Thursday... 
Network the campus by next Thursday? 
muttered the lion, He must be the wizard! 
Or on the same stuff that girl is, added the 
scarecrow.
But you have to improve our quality of life. 
The scarecrow needs a job offer, the cowardly 
lion some free time, I want to go to an Ivy 
League school, and the tin man needs sexua'-.l 
satisfaction.
And the great wizard Dick replied, Well, 
everyone knows that all CM grads get jobs. I 
can give the cowardly lion deans vacation. 
Im single-handedly turning this school into 
an Ivy. But sexual satisfaction, Im afraid 
theres nothing I can do for you there. Remem
ber, this is Carnegie Mellon.
The End. \
The Inquiring Staff is S. Levine, C. Williams, 
and R. Wilson.
The World According To Me
Thefollowing is the third of four installments 
which, when combined, form a letter sent to 
The Tartan. The letter was entitled The World 
According To Me, and was signed, simply, 
Jesus Christ. The letter is unedited. The Tartan 
does not support or deny the validity of the 
letter. The purpose of publishing this letter is 
not to offend any person or group of people; 
rather, it is simply an expression of the views 
of its author. Ed.
Editor:
As I said in the introduction I believe I am the 
incarnation of Jesus Christ. Is that impossible? 
Am I lying? Am I crazy? Am I indeed the true 
Jesus Christ come again? If I am, does it 
matter? What does it mean to be Jesus Christ? 
I suppose that when youre writing toconvince 
people of something its a good idea to answer 
questions that might be asked of you. One of 
the questions that might be asked of me and 
that Id like to answer here is, What makes 
you think youre the incarnation of Jesus 
Christ? I suppose I could give that question as 
long an answer as I wished (as long as the muse 
of writing, or whatever, held out of course), 
but Ill try to give the best answer possible in 
a short space.
The event that made me 99% sure (I like to 
think there is some doubt in anything; maybe 
it keeps things honest) that I was indeed the 
true incarnation of Christ occurred on Christ
mas Day, December 25, 1984. On that day I 
had a strong emotional experience during 
which I wept and bled from the nose copi
ously.
I dont think that alone would have con
vinced me I was Jesus, but combined with 
other things and events over the past few years 
it got me up to 99%.
1 had been working at a video movie rental 
store since September, 1983. It was here that 
my Christmas Day weeping incident took 
place. I had wept here before, but the Christ
mas Day incident is the only time I have wept 
and also bled from the nose (at the video store 
that is; I have wept and bled from the nose at 
home a few times.) There was one other person 
in the store at the time of my weeping on 
Christmas Day, and he observed my actions, 
but I won't divulge his name at this time 
because I haven't spoken with him about using 
his name in this book (religious essay? letter?)
Other people have witnessed my weeping on 
days other than Christmas, but I dont know 
their names.
I weep for a number of reasons I suppose. Its 
an intense emotional experience when I do and 
has strong elements of joy and laughter, as 
well as some feelings of urgency and sadness. 
I think the urgency comes from the constant 
awareness of the nearness of Mans death 
through nuclear suicide and the sadness from 
the possibility that we could lose eternal life 
because we wont be able to create a reality 
manipulating artificial intelligence (please see 
chapter one). Mostly though, I think my weep
ing is a manifestation of spiritual love. There 
is an element of laughter involved because, I 
think, laughter is one of Mans basic spiritual 
primes. It seems to me that all humans have 
three spiritual impulses (or primes, as I call 
them) in common: love, laughter, and music. 
Actually, music usually triggers my weeping, 
but like I said, there are elements of joy (spiri
tual ecstasy? spiritual love?) and laughter 
involved too.
Well, lots of people weep for joy. Why does 
Mhat make me Christ? I believe I am the true 
Christ. My weeping (and bleeding) is just one 
of the things that has convinced me. You 
obviously will decide for yourself if I am 
Christ or not. And if you decide I am not the 
true Christ then that will be the truth also. Not 
just the truth for you, the THE truth. The 
reason I say this is because I believe that truth 
is what the individual believes. I dont mean 
just the truth for that particular individual, but 
truth itself. In other words, I believe that the 
reality the individual experiences IS truth, and 
that anyone's individual reality is as valid, and 
equal to, any other individuals reality or truth. 
And that includes an individuals perception 
of the physical world as well. One of the 
consequences of this belief is that I think 
hallucinations do in fact exist. If a person 
senses an environment that I or others dont 
sense, then I wouldnt automatically assume 
he or she is hallucinating (although I sup
pose he or she could be lying about what they 
are sensing) because I believe that truth is what 
a person personally experiences. This may be 
a little philosophical and a digression from my 
main subject but the point is that for me, I am 
Christ. I would like as many other people to 
believe that, but if no one else does I still will.
Chapter 3 - Gods Law
I believe that in this life youre allowed to 
believe whatever you want. I suppose that 
someone(s) could get you to say what they 
want (through torture or whatever), but I be
lieve that what you believe in your heart is 
yours and yours alone. This isnt something 
that is allowed by men, or the law of men, 
but it is the national created state (God created 
state, if you will) of all human beings. And I 
believe that in the heart, the soul, of every 
human being there is only good. Some people 
(mostly men it seems) convince themselves 
(or go against their inner goodness, I dont 
know) that it is all right to hurt other people. I 
have only one law for every individual human 
being to abide by: Thou Shalt Not Hurt 
Anyone.
The extreme of this law is, Thou Shalt Not 
Kill. In my mind no one has the right to kill 
another human being, not a soldier during 
wartime, not a policeperson in the line of 
duty (they can use stun guns or some other 
non-fatal means of law enforcement), not an 
executioner in the service of the state. Obvi
ously people have been killing other people for 
a long time, but it has always been against my 
will for them to do so. In my mind the nuclear 
weapons operators (the ones who would actu
ally fire the weapons) would be committing 
murder, plain and simple, regardless of which 
side they were on.
I think most people know when they are 
physically hurting someone and I want every
one to know it is against my will for them to do 
so, regardless of the reason. It is harder to 
tell when you are hurting someone in other 
ways (e.g. emotionally, financially, psycho
logically, etc.) because everyone is different 
and you cant really be responsible for things 
you say or do that seem perfectly correct and 
decent to you, but are interpreted as otherwise 
by someone(s) else. I think you should do and 
say whatever you please (as long as youre not 
physically hurting anyone, or jeopardizing 
anyones physical safety, of course.) This 
doesnt mean I am encouraging anyone to 
break any governmental laws that dont per
tain to physical safety. I think you can still act 
with a great deal of freedom (yes, in Russia 
also) and stay within the dictates of govern
mental law. By and large I think most govern
mental laws everywhere are there for a good
reason (even though some may be quite anti
quated), but no person(s) or law can give a 
human being the right to kill or physically hurt 
another human. As corny as it may sound, you 
should let your conscience be your guide in 
non-physical matters.
I dont think contact sports players are trying 
to hurt each other; the roughness is just part of $ 
the game. But if a player intentionally injures 
another player, then he or she is breaking my 
law.
There is only one instance I can think of when 
abortion should be permitted. When a woman 
has been raped an abortion should be allowed 
up into some short time (two weeks?) after 
conception. Ideally the allowed time should be 
as short as possible. Two weeks is just a 
suggestion.
Euthanasia is a tougher problem in my mind. 
Even though a person might be in seemingly 
permanent coma, he or she might still be able 
to dream (even if the EEG or other instrument 
says no) and as a friend has penned, ...we 
meet in our sleep. I guess what makes eutha
nasia conceivable are the cases where people 
have constant, intense, untreatable pain. I can^> 
only hope that time will help these people if 
everything else fails.
I think prison is the best solution we have at 
the moment for violent criminals. Mostly, it 
protects society from their violent actions. I 
realize that prison can be a very unpleasant 
place to be. The only solace I can give any 
prisoners who are unhappy is my love, and my 
hope that they can find comfort in the anticipation of paradise to come. I know prisoners and 
the prison system in general can be far from 
perfect, but even there my law must rule; I 
truly believe it is the only way (always have, 
always will.) Also, prisoners who have not 
physically hurt anyone should not be allowed 
to mix with prisoners who have.
Finally, I would like to say that you are all 
obviously free individuals on this planet (regardless of your nationality.) If you decide 
to hurt someone(s) it is pretty hard for anyone 
to stop you. 1 believe my way is the best way.
I cant force you to follow me. You must 
follow me of your own free will. And there is 
only one thing you must do to follow me, and 
that is abide by my law, which is (as Im sure 
you know by now), Thou Shalt Not Hurt
continued on page 12 .v

---------------------------------------------------

%
Over 
65,000 
MBA's
Will Graduate 
This Year.
TRW Wants 
the 12 Best.
Are You One 
of Them?
Why is TRWs Management Associates Program unique? Because we 
tailor the program to the candidate... instead of tailoring the candidate 
to the program. And when a multi- industry, $6 billion, international corporation 
pays individualized attention to a select handful of MBAs, you know it must be 
a special program.
Our Management Associates Program is a two-year experience of three or four varied 
assignments. A TRW mentor will jointly determine with you the particular locations, 
responsibilities and objectives. Your specific interests, goals and experiences will be integral 
factors in these decisions... and in the long-term management career for which the program 
will prepare you. You may focus in one of the following fields:
b
FINANCE
HUMAN RESOURCES 
INFORMATION SYSTEMS 
PLANNING
MANUFACTURING
ENGINEERING
If you want to discuss the possiblity of being one of the twelve, well be 
on campus on January 8, or send your resume to:
Elizabeth A. Lee, Dept #387 
Manager, College Relations 
& Associates Program 
TRW Inc.
1900 Richmond Road Cleveland, OH 44124#?n
An equal opportunity employer m/f/h

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanNovember 17,1987
Chapter 3Gods Law 
U64U *erPT waaerTgRc 6e BU99
continued from page 10
Anyone.
I believe that if everyone faithfully follows 
the spirit of my law everything will work out 
all right and we will attain Heaven. I can argue 
that this will be so for as long as I want (or for 
a long time anyway), but in the end, if you 
disagree, all I can ask is that you believe me 
and take it in faith.
I believe work, and hard work particularly, is 
its own reward. 1 also believe it is part of 
human nature to work and be creative. When 
we work physically our muscles grow and we 
become healthier.
When we work mentally our minds become 
stronger, but this strength should be used to 
help ourselves and others, not dominate and 
destroy. As long as we don't blow it up civili
zation will continue. Depressions can't hurt 
people. Even in the Great Depression of the 
30's very few people actually starved to death 
in the industrialized nations.
As long as a person gets enough food (which 
can be very small amount if need be), and 
minimal shelter from extreme environmental 
conditions, then he or she can remain alive and 
as healthy as anyone. And in my mind as long 
as you're alive and healthy youre as well-off 
as anyone.
Unfortunately there are millions of people in 
the world who dont receive the minimal sup
plies necessary to remain healthy. It is these 
people I had in mind when I wrote the final 
paragraph in the introduction.
As I stated there I would like people with 
over thirty million dollars in U.S. funds to 
donate the amount that their personal wealth 
exceeds this limit to charities that feed the 
hungry people of the world. I would like this 
voluntary extreme wealth tax to be an an
nual action for the very rich. As I stated in the 
introduction I feel that no matter how hard a 
person has worked, thirty million dollars is 
enough for him or her.
I also feel that in light of the increasing 
human population on this planet it would be a 
good idea for a woman to limit herself to two 
children so as to replace only herself and one 
male.
But we must keep as many people alive and 
healthy as possible that have been born be
cause we don't know who will have the ability 
to create or help create the A.I. It could be 
anyone, including a person who is dying from 
malnutrition at this very moment.
I also stated in the introduction that I want 
people to take immediate, pacifist, physical 
action against nuclear weapons installations. I 
feel the time has come for this admittedly 
drastic action to be taken.
But I emphasize the word pacifist in my 
plea. I would never maliciously physically 
hurt anyone nor advocate such action to any
one else. I dont want anyone to hurt the 
military personnel at nuclear (or mass de
structive) weapons installations and I cer
tainly dont want the military personnel to 
hurt anyone attempting to rid the planet of 
mass destructive abominations.
As I said in the introduction, I have sent 
repeated messages to the heads of the armies 
that wield nuclear weapons to dismantle their 
nukes. The probability of global nuclear de
struction, both intentional and unintentional, 
increases as time goes on as long as these 
weapons sit poised and ready to launch. I do 
not advocate physical violence, or the threat of 
physical violence, against humans for any 
reasons. These nuclear abominations must be 
dismantled and destroyed immediately!!!
He was just this guy in my class with cool- looking hair. I never 
thought we had anything in common until we ran into each 
other at Great Expecta
tions.
Sarah and Tim: Hottest couple, Class of 87
MO APPOINTMENT
CKfCGTimansPRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
TheThe
DESIGNER PERMPRECISION CUTJUST-A-CUT
only ?_ybNN?f7pNNonly ?mpNN
Complete with writtenComplete with shampooCut onlyguaranteeand blow style
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED!
r
Great Styles Start at ...
MUST HAVE COUPON 
~SAVE~$2.00 
on a
PRECISION HAIRCUT
Complete with shampoo & styling
Offer Expires 
November 30
NOAPPOINT^ NT 
NSSARY0F'uwB6 EXfCCTftTMIISPRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
687-3500
Citicorp/Citibank
Operations & Marketing 
Career Presentation
Citicorp/Citibank invites you to talk with representatives 
from our financial institutions group about career 
opportunities and operations & marketing.
Date: Wednesday, November 18 
Time: 7-9 pm 
Place: Skibo Room 201
O
Refreshments will be served
o

---------------------------------------------------

Features!
wI *UU% IrgRc3 FsUS%Ur3? ueRaUrE3
Hunter S. Thompson 
to Speak Tonight
a

By TERENCE SPIES
Tartan Staffwriter
Dr. Hunter S. Thompson will speak on Tuesday, Novem
ber 17, at 8:00 pm in the Skibo Ballroom. Expect to hear 
some unusual views from this one-of-a-kind gonzo journal
ist, whose actions ranging from statements inciting stu
dents at Marquette Univeristy to stamp George Bush to 
death, to his legendary prowess with recreational drugs have 
made him a modem cult figure.
Thompson is the author of several books, including Fear 
and Loathing in Las Vegas, Hell's Angels, and The Great 
Shark Hunt. But he is primarily a journalist, working for 
many venues, including Rolling Stone, Nation, and other 
national publications. He has produced unique accounts of 
such diverse events as the Super Bowl, presidential elections, and auto shows. He works in a 
frantic, involved style, entangling himself in the proceedings he is reporting. For example, 
Thompson wrote his account of the Hells Angels by participating in their runs, or treks to
outlying locales en masse. Reporting on the Kentucky Derby with English artist Ralph
Steadman, he immersed himself in the chaotic parties and copious alcohol consumption 
surrounding the race.
This hyper, insane approach to reporting draws many readers to his works with incredulous 
humor, gasping at the overt references to drugs, senseless violence, and on-the-edge living. But 
to do so is to miss Thompsons intent.
By becoming part of an event, Thompson is able to witness the side of the happening invis
ible to a conventional, detached journalist. In Thompsons works, the Hells Angels are seen 
as complex, albeit dangerous human beings, cognizant of their lifestyle, not an amorphous 
group of mutated thugs out to terrorize law-abiding citizens. The Super Bowl is visible through 
Thomspons eyes as a mass of wheeling, dealing, and general depravity behind the scenes 
rather than the all-American sporting event we see on television.
At times it seems Thompson has latched onto the nature of modem American life. In his 
accounts of Super Bowls, elections, and other social phenomena, Americans are portrayed in 
all their savagery and decadence. In the book The Great Shark Hunt, Thompson reports on the 
endorsement tour of Jean Claude Killy, embarrased by the auto industries prostitution of the 
Olympic skier. Thompson depicts the Kentucky Derby as a huge outdoor loony bin, full of 
boozing, pompous Southerners. This unique disdain for the hypocritical, preying side of 
America is a common thread to Thompsons style.
However, because of his irreverance and unusual lifestyle and reporting methods, the media 
has tagged him as, in Rolling Stone's words, Americas premier maniac. To some extent, 
Thompson has become a cult figure. The Doonesbury character Uncle Duke is based on 
Thompson, a stigma Thompson deplores. The film Where the Buffalo Roam, starring Bill Mur
ray, shows Thompson in a fairer, but nevertheless, hyped context. No wonder that Thompson 
is quoted in the Twentieth Anniversary issue of Rolling Stone as saying Funny, I almost never 
get questioned about writing.
Find out the truth for yourself about this unique American journalist by attending the lecture.
Activities Board Plans 
10 Days of Festivities
By RHONDA LANDY
Tartan Staffwriter 
Well, folks, we are in the middle of AB week, that glorious 
blitz of activities and shows sponsored by the Activities 
Board. You've probably already noticed the plethora of 
expensive-looking posters hanging around campus. We at 
The Tartan decided to provide you with a guide to just whats 
going on: whos where, and when. But first, a recap of what 
has gone on so far:
AB Week was kicked off to a great start this past Saturday 
Night with the Air Band Competition. Sky Sands, a come
dian who has had successful shows on campus in past years, 
was the Master of Ceremonies for ten groups of students who 
imitated many different bands, including the Village People, 
Huey Lewis and the News, and Talking Heads. The Village People were awarded a first prize 
of $200 for their performance of the song YMCA.
The competition was followed by the movie The Big Chill, which played in Doherty 2210 
on Sunday Night.
Tonight, Hunter Thompson, billed as the quintessential outlaw journalist, will be appear
ing in the Skibo Ballroom at 8:00 pm. Mr. Thompson is the crackpot journalist who wrote F ear 
and Loathing in Las Vegas and several other books; he was also the inspiration for the 
Doonesbury character Uncle Duke.
On Thursday, November 19, at 6,8,10, and 12 pm, the AB movie will be the animated 
childrens classic, Charlottes Web. Its a great movie, with an excellent cast of voices, 
including Jack Nicholson as the voice of that sleazy rat, Templeton.
On Friday, November 20, the band Eleventh Hour will be playing in the Wherrett Room. 
Eleventh Hour, winners of the Tri-S tate Rock Competition, is a Progressive rock group similar 
to the Affordable Floors. Thick as Thieves will open the show at 9 pm.
The movie Blind Date will also be playing in Doherty 2210 at 6, 8, 10, and 12.
On Saturday, November 21 at 8:00 pm. comedian Alex Cole will be appearing in the Skibo 
Ballroom. Mr. Cole, you may remember, was the Master of Ceremonies for last years Air 
Band competition.
On Sunday, November 22, the John Hughes movie The Breakfast Club will be shown at 
6,8,10 and 12 pm in Doherty 2210. The film stars Judd Nelson, Emlio Estevez, Molly 
Ringwald, Anthony Michael Hall, and Ally Sheedy in the story of how five students spend 
a Saturday in detention.
AB Week will be wrapped up on Monday, November 23 with the performance of the band 
Squeeze at the Syria Mosque at 8:00 pm.
Doug Carey, the Chairman of the Activities Board, explained the rationale behind this 
semesters AB Week: Getting people at this school to come to events is always tough. So we 
decided to schedule the rest of the events in the week after Air Band, which has always always 
been successful, because we felt that tying them in with Air Band would make them successful, 
too. It offers students a week just before we go home for Thanksgiving to blow off a few hours 
and relax...You really couldnt find a better week of programming at any other school.
64U uBl 2SEgRc :StU hPSW Ee *gR
Dates are the best thing about college. They 
can pick up a dull week, add spice to a familiar 
routine, and provide hours of discussion 
amongst friends later. Everything that sur
rounds A Date is fair game for the lunch 
tablewhat was worn, what was said, what 
was done, what wasnt, and the resulting 
implications. The only problem with dates is 
that they exist in small quantities. Very often 
a young man or woman will not ask a potential
IW FSrS MPWRR
date out because they run into them all the 
time.
Being run into is not half as pleasant as a 
good date. Ambling across the Cut, and sight
ing your Romantic Interest heading towards 
you certainly brightens your day. But as he 
waves and yells at you, and his other eleven 
friends walking in the same direction, your 
heart might not thump a little faster. Of course, 
if he slows down or even stops to exchange 
salutations, sparks fly. As you arrive late to 
class and miss the instructions for next weeks 
exam or a valuable hand-out, keep those
sparks in mind. It is just too difficult to social
ize with a Romantic Interest during class. 
When whispering, half of what is said be
comes unintelligible. Passing notes is frustrat
ing and replies are often read by your friends or 
lost to the floor. Library interaction, while 
enlightening, can often lead to bad grades or 
short tempers. It is frustrating to see those 
potential dates only during coincidental 
moments by the copier.
Hence the solution presents itself. Dates. In 
the crusade for effective social interaction 
they remain the best weapon. The possibilities 
are endless, with a little creative thought even 
the most banal experience can turn into a fun 
date. Eating together is probably the most 
popular solution.
For a twist on the usual meal, ask someone 
to join you, says Alex Rosenberg, authority 
on Good Dates. I usually dont go for cheap 
dates, but I do think the international feeling of 
the German table at Morewood Gardens can 
be fun. Its almost as good as going out to a 
restaurantthe flavor of Europe.
Picking up the tab for both of you at the Kilte 
is also a nice gesture and can be reflected upon 
later at the cereal bar. Com flakes for dinner 
its unusual and fun, and really quite a treat. Of 
course entrees are also entertainment-ori
ented.
If eating UDS doesnt appeal to you, you can 
invite someone to the movies.
The A-V room at the library has a wide 
selection of documentaries and classics. If
headphones are a deterrent, try DH2210. For 
two dollars, you and your Romantic Interest 
can see a popular film. Of course, films are 
something of a bore since you dont really get 
a chance to chat with your date, and if you want 
to hold hands, you must wrestle with posses
sion of the chair arm. One of you will always 
be uncomfortable. With this thought in mind, 
we approached a few members of the commu
nity and asked them what their first choice for 
a cheap date would be, next to DH2210.
Its much better to wander around the base
ments of Schlag and Doherty. There are long 
passageways and scary rooms. Its better than 
a horror movie. Four men professed a desire
Dates. In the crusade for ef
fective social interaction they 
remain the best weapon. The 
possiblities are endless...
to take a date on this exploration.
Wean Hall is a good place for a date. You 
can write programs, do homework and when 
taking a breaktest out the snack machines. 
One man sought a terminal-oriented date.
Drinks at Scotland Yard. Its not too expen
sive and if shes boring you can watch TV. 
Five men suggested the Yard.
Of course, there were a few dates suggested
that deserve prizes for innovation and imagi
nation. The winners are:
3rd prize
Having her over for tea. Serving Tea Time 
Treats and a good hot cup of tea from a teapot 
in a nice clean cup around 4 or 4:30 in the 
afternoon. This idea was very well-received 
by the women of the community who were 
dying to know what young man suggested it. 
2nd prize
Gymnastics in WeH 7500. Practicing tum
bling on the carpet and jumping around on and 
off the furniture was the most active date 
suggested. It was well-received by the women 
on campus and inspired a few men to add 
aerobic acitivities to their ideas on dates.
1st prize
Signing up for Learning Lisp. Hours of 
intimate fun and excitement. To share in the 
frustrations and joys of learing a new skill will 
not only bring two people together. It will also 
bring them 40 dollars apiece. Something to 
reminisce about years from now. Thank you, 
Mike Barros, the creator of the Best Date.
Doing research for this article was very fun. 
There seem to be an awful lot of great ideas 
lurking around the classrooms and fraternities 
on campus, just waiting to reach the implem
entation stages. Ice skating, for example, was 
requested by most of the girls and seemed to 
repulse most of the boys. Finding the medium 
between these two reactions is, in itself, an 
activity worth pursuing. It can only be done 
through the best aspect of college life. Dating.
I

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanNovember 17,1987
xN F.unK2F
WITH BOB GLICKSTEIN
ueddUU/gRTAaUT MrURkW 64U u4egaU ed S KUo :URUrSEgeR j
SKIBO BALLROOM
Wednesday ( TOMORROW) 
4:30
primitive coffee filters. This is probably where 
the tradition of serving coffee hot originated. I 
mean because h was cold outside. It was the 
Ice Age.
Coffee was reintroduced in Ancient Egypt in 
about 2700 BC. Egyptian structures dating 
from this time contain hieroglyphic murals 
depicting a visitation by an extraterrestrial 
intelligence. In a crucial section of one such 
mural, a space alien is depicted, handing a 
percolater to an Egyptian priest.
By the way, the space aliens who gave coffee 
to the Egyptians are not necessarily the same 
ones that built the pyramids.
The Ancient Mayans are also suspected to 
have known of coffee, but direct proof of this 
is elusive. However, the fact is strongly sug
gested by the discovery of thousands of empty 
one-ounce plastic containers marked Half 
and Half (roughly translated from the Mayan 
language).
There are documents which lead historians
to believe that coffee played a role in Ancient 
Rome as well. However, the Romans appar
ently did not put the coffee to its best use. They 
used to pour hot coffee in the laps of Christians 
at the Colisseum before feeding them to the 
lions, as a kind of opening act.
On the other hand, coffee seemed to have 
been properly appreciated in the Ancient 
Greek culture, according to Harvard scholar 
Spooks Casey. His translation of Homers 
Odyssey has Odysseus rescuing his crew from 
the Island of the Lotus-Eaters with the help of 
coffee to fight the somnolescent effect of the 
lotus flowers. (Actually, there is some doubt 
about the authenticity of this translation. 
Spooks is known to have once told a colleague 
that the idea of Odysseus propping his eyelids 
open with wooden splinters to keep awake was 
gross, and thus some scholars assert that he 
may have simply replaced the splinters in 
the epic poem with coffee to avoid the repellant image. However, I and several others
Gee, what a tough week Ive had. People 
seem to think the world would come to a halt 
if they didnt continuously make demands on 
my time. Homework assignments. Job dead
lines. Newspaper deadlines. Interviews. Pa
ternity lawyers. Another person may have 
buckled under the strain by now, but not me. 
For I am a Drinker of Coffee.
An article praising the almost magical prop
erties of coffee is long overdue. As all watch
ers of television know, coffee speeds you up, 
and slows you down. This is the coffee
industrys mild way of saying that coffee can 
be used as blood. In fact, it wouldnt even be 
possible for me to be writing this article now 
(its 4:26 am) if it werent for the fact that 25% 
of the stuff presently in my bloodstream is, in 
fact, coffee.
The history of coffees introduction to the 
Western World is particularly fascinating. The 
earliest records of coffee are dated back to the 
Ice Age. Archaeological explorations of caves 
in Northern Europe have uncovered literally 
dozens of paper-thin, bowl-shaped objects 
made from pressed wood pulp. These objects 
are stained a light brown and are believed to be
believe that Doctor Caseys translation is vali
dated by existing linguistic and historical evi
dence.)
The art of good coffee-making is believed to 
have been lost during the Dark Ages, when 
coffee became a crude, barely palatable fluid 
which may have contributed to the rapid 
spread of the Black Plague (due to the lack of 
efficacious sanitary facilities in crowded cit
ies, especially in restaurants where coffee was 
served and the need for such facilities was 
therefore great). However, when Marco Polo 
traveled to China, he brought back not only 
silks and spaghetti but also good coffee. The 
Italians, overjoyed at having rediscovered this 
delectable beverage, named their version 
capuccino, which translated literally means 
coffee but with an Italian name.
Americas passion for coffee originated with 
the Pilgrims who settled in New England and 
found that no food would grow there. Their 
spirits were lifted when the American Indians 
taught them how to fertilize their crops, grow 
maize, which you call com, and brew cof
fee.
Within twenty years, the Pilgrims opened the 
first 7-11 store, and the Big Gulp of coffee 
became a great American tradition.
The magical properties of coffee, to which 
I alluded earlier, cannot be overrated. The 
drinking of merely a few cups of coffee has 
enabled me to write this tribute to coffee itself. 
Without coffee, my head would have fallen 
onto the keyboard long ago, and this article 
might have looked like this: 9er,kijtiswzoi g/ 
.5r87y wv5 5o487/.,? Clearly, this would be 
unacceptable, since my editors would then 
withhold my paycheck.
So it is clear that we owe coffee a large debt 
of gratitude. As Voltaire, who was known to 
drink seventy cups of coffee a day, once 
rightly remarked: It is one of the superstitions 
of the human mind to have imagined that 
virginity could be a virtue.
Funded by Student Activities Fee
Oi! This guy's speaking at 4:30 
tomorrow in the Skibo Ballroom. 
I hope he doesn't spill the beans 
like he did at the Iran-Contra 
v hearings this summer. y
THE POLITICAL SPEAKERS FORUM BOARD PRESENTS
1nI.16 n*.K
The courier for Lt. Col. Oliver North

---------------------------------------------------

Features Ferret says,
GO AHEAD. MAKE MY DAY. 
WRITE FOR FEATURES.*
The Features Staff meets every Monday 
at 5:00 pm in the Tartan office Join us!
November 17,1987The TartanPage 15
Big Brother/Big Sister Program Coming to Campus
By JUDY HARABURDA
Tartan Features Co-Editor 
Today, for more and more children, espe
cially for boys growing up in single parent 
families, [someone with whom to share things] 
just isnt around! That doesnt stop children 
from growing up, but it can leave them feeling 
"I like they are all alone and havent got a 
chance. As this brochure suggests, the Big 
Brother/Big Sister program needs your help.
Have you ever thought of being a big bro to 
someone who really needs your friendship and 
attention? Sure, it requires a rigorous screen
ing process. Sure, it demands commitment and 
responsibility. But your friendship could have 
a dramatic impact on the life of a child.
^ On November 11, 1987, SAE brother Fred 
Goff, Student Coordinator of the Big Brother/ 
Big Sister program coming to Carnegie Mel
lon, and Dr. Iris Nahemow, Executive Direc
tor of Big Brothers of Greater Pittsburgh, held 
an organizational meeting.
Goff, along with Dean of Student Affairs 
Brad Walter, is working to bring a special 
version of the Big Brother program to campus, 
j tailored to the schedule of college students. 
Every Saturday morning children in the Al
legheny County area will be picked up and 
brought to campus, where all big brothers 
must be waiting. The cost of transportation 
will hopefully be subsidized by a grant pend
ing and by some of the proceeds from the 
Greek Sing competition, which has named the 
Big Brother/Big Sister program as its charity
I this year.
Children will get their own CMU ID, and 
have access to facilities such as the gym, 
cafeterias, etc. Goff plans to arrange some 
group activities for children and their bigs, but
Playboy Sponsors 
Fiction Contest '
By JUDY HARABURDA
Tartan Features Co-Editor 
Playboy magazine recently announced its 
1988 College Fiction Contest. The contest is 
open-to all registered undergraduate, graduate 
and part-time college students. Submit your 
original piece of fiction (one entry per person) 
to: Playboy College Fiction Contest, 9191 
North Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 
60611.
Manuscripts should be typed, double-spaced 
and 25 pages or less in length. Your manuscript 
becomes the property of Playboy Enterprises 
and will not be returned. Also include a 3" x 5" 
card with your name, age, college affiliation, 
permanent home address and phone number. 
Your entry must be postmarked by January 1,
1988.
Editors of Playboy magazine will award a 
first prize of$3000 and publication of the story 
in their October 1988 issue. Second prize is 
$500 and a years subscription to Playboy. 
Third prize is a years subscription to Playboy.
No purchase necessary.
Great American Smokeout Survival
the emphasis of the program is definitely on 
building a one-to-one relationship. For about 
four or five hours every Saturday during the 
school year, each pair will spend time together 
and do fun things. Regularity is key. Bigs are 
strongly encouraged to keep in touch with the 
child during the summer, vacations, finals 
week and other times the program will not run. 
In planning activities, bigs are discouraged 
from spending money on the children because 
it directs attention away from companionship 
and friendship, the key goals of the program.
The organizers are looking for about 20 to 25 
big brothers to start out the program here on 
campus. It is important to note that there is a 
greater demand for big brothers than big sis
ters.
The children involved enter the program 
between seven and thirteen years of age and 
leave the program when they reach eighteen. 
They generally come from one-parent homes 
and may need additional motivation in school, 
making friends or getting along with their 
families. The point is they do not feel as good 
about themselves as they could, emphasizes 
Dr. Nehemow.
If you are interested in volunteering, please 
fill out an application. Four personal refer
ences (one from campus) are necessary. A 
required five-hour training session will be 
held on Saturday, November 21, at 10 am in 
the Wherrett Room, Skibo. Starting in Janu
ary, bigs will be interviewed and time will be 
scheduled to visit dorms and to meet room
mates. (Yes, this application process is very 
thorough).
If, after this rigorous application process, 
you are accepted into the program, case work
ers will try to match you with a child who has
By SUZY DOTTOR
Tartan Staffwriter
For the eleventh year in a row the Ameri
can Cancer Society will make an effort to 
encourage this nations smokers to give the 
habit a kick in the butt for just one day. 
The designated day will be Thursday, 
November 19 and it is better known as the 
Great American Smokeout. The American 
Cancer Society hopes that the Smokeout 
will increase public awareness of the im
portance of eliminating smoking as a means 
to prevent cancer. So far, the efforts have 
been well received. Last year, nearly 24 
million of the nations 54.5 million smokers 
got through the day without lighting up.
This success, however, does not mean that 
the battle against cancer has been won. 
According to recent data, 74 million Ameri
cans now living will eventually have cancer 
but, many cancers can be cured if detected 
and treated in their early stages. As far as 
smoking and cancer are concerned, the 
habit is related to 320,000 deaths annually 
from cancer of the lung, mouth, pharynx, 
larynx, esophagus, pancreas and bladder. 
Smoking can also be related to other dis
eases.
Even though the overall percentage of 
adult smokers has gone down, it is on the 
rise among young women. In fact, studies 
have shown that lung cancer has surpassed 
breast cancer as the leading cancer killer 
among women.
A risk of cancer among the nations young 
men may come from dipping, the slang 
term for smokeless tobacco or chew. Ac
cording to U.S. Surgeon General Dr. C. 
Everett Koop, ...chewing tobacco has had 
a resurgence of use in this country, espe
cially in the last five years. It is not a safe 
substitute for cigarette smoking. Approxi
mately 12 million Americans use smoke
less tobacco. This is an alarming statistic 
because of the association between the use
of smokeless tobacco and the development of 
a type of cancer known as verrucous carci
noma. Due to the risk of contracting this kind 
of cancer, the American Cancer Society has 
launched an advertising campaign geared 
towards young males over the age of 12.
Helping to launch the Smokeout campaign 
for the seventh consecutive year is Larry 
Hagman, alias J.R. of TVs Dallas. As the 
presiding Smokeout Chairman he urges smok
ers to make this the year you kick smoking 
out of your life.
How do CMU students feel about kicking 
smoking out of their lives? One junior CFA 
student gave a flat no when asked if she would 
participate in the Smokeout. Why not? Be
cause I dont want to and I dont pay attention 
to those things.
Psychology major Krishnan Somasundarum 
isnt a smoker but had a definite opinion on the 
day anyway, I dont smoke but if I did I 
wouldnt stop for just one day. I dont think it 
would do any good. Stopping for one day
wont affect a smokers health in any way. 
If a smoker wants to quit it is a decision he 
has to make himself and be committed to.
Another student replied, When is it? 
Thursday? No, I wont do it. I cant, I have 
a chemiltry test on Friday. Ill never get 
through studying for it if I quit smoking on 
Thursday.
For all you smokers who dont have a test 
Friday, here are some tips to help you make 
it through the day!
Hide all ashtrays, matches, etc.
Keep a supply of sugarless gum, carrot 
sticks, etc.
Drink lots of liquids, but pass up coffee 
and alcohol.
Tell everyone youre quitting for the day.
When the urge to smoke hits, take a deep 
breath, hold it for ten seconds, and release 
it slowly.
Exercise to relieve the tension.
Try the buddy system and ask a friend 
to quit too.
photo by Judy Haraburda 
Dr. Nahemow describes the Big Brother/Big Sister Program coming to campus at the
organizational meeting last Wednesday.
similar interests. By early February, matches 
will begin and increase into the Spring. They 
will tell you about a potential little brother, and 
if the match sounds good to you, you will meet 
with the child, his parent, and a case worker. A 
case worker will be assigned to advise you in 
dealing with situations that may arise. In addi
tion, someone will call to check up with your 
progress every month.
Big brothers are required to be involved with 
the program for a minimum of one year to 
avoid disappointing the child. In this first year, 
the child may not spend an overnight visit with 
the big, which is why it is so important that 
they stay in touch over the summer.
Alan Hayden, a CMU grad student, de
scribed his experiences with the Big Brother/ 
Big Sister program in Pittsburgh. He has been 
matched a little over a year to a 10-year-old 
boy in Mount Lebanon. The first few meet
ings, he said, were awkward but he felt as if he 
already knew the child because of the in-depth 
interviews. They went skating, rafting, to 
playgrounds, placed tag, played tag, and then 
played tag some more. He said the whole 
experience was very rewarding.
If you would like to be part of this new 
program, please contact Fred Goff at 682- 
9211 for more information and an application. 
Or call 621-6100 or write to: Big Brothers & 
Sisters of Greater Pittsburgh, Inc., 336 North 
Craig Street, Pittsburgh, PA 15213.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanNovember 17,1987
Things Mother Never Told You
Percentage increase in the heat of the sun 
in the last 3.5 million years: 25 
Pounds of hazardous waste generated per 
capita in the US in 1950: 4.6 
Today: 2,600
New books acquired yearly by Yale Uni
versity libraries (in miles of shelf space): 4 
Total memory capacity produced by the 
US computer industry in 1986 (in kilo
bytes): 449,600,000,000 
False warnings of a nuclear attack on the 
US in the past eight years: 6 
Portion of all vehicles carrying hazardous 
materials that are incorrectly labeled: 1/4 
Months it will take for the number of 
AIDS cases to double: 12 
Rank of Main among the most common 
street names in America: 32 
Copies of Penthouse and Playboy sold, 
per 1,000 residents, in Des Moines: 160 
In New York City: 42 
Total man-hours spent mowing lawns in 
the US each year: 2,220,000,000 
Pairs of sunglasses owned by Jack 
Nicholson: 15
Number of Americans who drink CocaCola for breakfast: 965,000
Reported cases of people bitten by rats in
New York City in 1985: 311
Reported cases of people bitten by other
people in 1985: 1,519
Value of Pentagon contracts awarded to
General Dynamics in 1985:
$7,100,000,000
Number of Americans who declared over 
$200,000 in income and paid no federal 
income taxes in 1983: 579 
Purchase price of a parking space in New 
York Citys first condominium garage: 
$29,000
Forgeries discovered since 1980 in the 
collection of New Yorks Metropolitan 
Museum of Art: 50
Number of murders the average child has 
seen on TV by the age of 16: 18,000 
Percentage of New York City police offi
cers who fired their weapons in the line of 
duty in 1985: 0.95
Total hours of television watched in 
American households in 1985: 
224,372,599,000
Percentage of Russian soldiers that God 
will kill at the end of the world, according 
to Jerry Falwell: 83
Amount spent by Americans annually for 
packaged cookies: $3,900,000,000 
Amount spent annually on pornography: 
$8,000,000,000
 Percentage of Vietnam veterans who have 
suffered from post-traumatic stress disor
der: 25
Estimated percentage of professional 
boxers who suffer brain damage: 87 
Percentage of President Reagans time 
that has been spent on vacation or at Camp 
David: 24
 Estimated amount of money that a nuclear 
freeze would save the US between now and 
the year 2000: $400,000,000,000
 Portion by which a baseball is compressed 
when hit squarely: 1/4
Percentage of condoms that were bought 
by women in 1975: 15 
Percentage today: 40 
Number of Americans holding reserva
tions with Pan Am for a trip to the moon: 
92,002
Number of operational American objects 
in space: 520
Number of operational Soviet objects: 
948
 Number of Americans who play the accor
dion: 2,200,000
Cost-per-second of advertising time on 
The Cosby Show: $12,700 
Source: The Harpers Index Book
photo by Gerry Bell
Skaters enjoy this seasons opening of Schenley Park Ice Rink last Tuesday.
Help douse MS
With sodas from the Tartan Grill
The Tartan Grill will donate 250 to SAMS for every large soft 
drink purchased Tuesday, November 17 through November 24. 
So help yourself to a large drink to beat your thirst and 
Help Beat MS!
Bumbling Beginners on Blades...
Ice Skating Rink Open for Business
By KELLY SPENCER
Tartan Staffwriter
Tuesdays are College I.D. nights at the Sch
enley Park Ice Rink. Its that time of year again 
and although Indian summer delayed the 
rinks opening until last Tuesday, November 
10th, public skating sessions have now begun.
Admission rates are generally $1.50 for 
adults, 19 and over, $1.00 for senior citizens 
and teens, and $.75 for children 12 and under, 
but on Tuesday evenings, any student with a 
valid College I.D. will receive $.50 off admis
sion. Skate rental is available for $1.00 and 
skate sharpening is $2.00.
Schenley is also sponsoring a few special 
events this season. The Pittsburgh Penguins 
will be at the rink on Sunday, December 6th, 
from 4:00-6:00pm to sign autographs and give 
away hockey sticks while skating with the 
public. Participating players will include Troy 
Loney, left wing, Rob Brown, rookie center, 
and Chris Joseph, the number one draft defenseman. There will also be a singles
night in January as well as the annual Valen
tines on Ice evening on Sunday, February 
14th.
The rink is available for a rental fee of 
$ 125.00 for each two-and-a-half hour session. 
Use *of the facilitys kitchen-equipped party 
room is an additional $ 100.00. The room seats 
175 people. Schenley also offers lessons for 
beginning skaters in its special Learn to 
Skate program. Each session combines an 
hour of instruction with half an hour of super
vised practice time. These lessons cover the 
fundamentals and are open to all age groups. 
For more info, call Citiparks at 422-6547.
So, whether youre Dorothy Hamill or just a 
clumsy beginner like me, go on out to the 
Schenley Park Ice Rink and give it a whirl. 
Public skating sessions are from 7:00-9:30 pm 
on Tuesdays and Fridays, 1:00-3:30, 4:00- 
6:30, and 7:00-9:30 pm on Saturdays and 
Sundays, and for adults only, 1:00-3:30 Wed
nesday and 10:00 pm-12:30 am Friday and 
Saturday.

---------------------------------------------------

November 17,1987The TartanPage 17
q .RErUsrURUAr34gs 2e eA 
YSCU E4U ;1gc4E FEAdd9
a
Do you have what it takes to be an entre
preneur? Test your business IQ.
Is freedom important to you?
Do you like to be in control?
Are you willing to take risks?
Do you want to be filthy rich?
If you answer yes to one or more of these 
questions, then you may have the makings for 
an entrepreneur. These are some of the traits 
a person starting their own business must 
have. It takes dedication, intelligence, and a 
vision to be successful. One must have the
O.
Money
Wise
u4 dr1T Fb F16eO.3Et3O 
% FOA1w uTO.w
right personality, including people skills, or
ganizational ability, knowledge of marketing, 
and how to deal with money.
So I bet youre thinking, Id like to start my 
' own business, but how can I compete with 
todays modem, money-craving yuppie? 
Well, many of todays most common busi
nesses were once start-ups by little known en
trepreneurs. Two famous entrepreneurs are 
Bill Hewlett and Dave Packard, who today are 
worth over a billion dollars each. Even the 
wealthiest man in the country, Sam M. Wal
ton, is self-made.
Do you feel you have the personality? Not 
any personality, but the personality to assume 
the risks of business. Do you want to run the 
show? Do you always find yourself getting 
involved in everything ? How about introspec
tion, the drive to succeed and adapt, and the 
love of adventure? Got all that? Swell. All 
these ingredients exist either in combination 
within a person or between individuals who 
team up as partners in a new enterprise.
What about people? Do you despise them? 
Do you feel like you have more neighbors than 
Mr. Rogers, or are you rather indifferent to
ward other members of the human race? Every 
company begins with an entrepreneur who has 
a dream, but eventually once the entrepreneur 
starts the company off, its teamwork that 
keeps the company above water. Most entre
preneurs are quite people-oriented. They real
ize that the ways they supervise, manage, give 
directions, and solve day to day problems
affects their business. They are well aware of 
the fact that the way they, their staffs and their 
customers communicate will bring success to 
their company. Do you think so too?
How about organization? Do you have a 
keen sense of where you are going? Do you 
have clearly-envisioned goals and a high level 
of motivation to achieve those goals? Entre
preneurs, with a destination in mind, wisely 
organize their time. They set priorities on 
those activities that lead them towards their 
objectives.
Do you like to sell? Marketing skills are 
essential to any business. In marketing your 
product, all you have to do is get the right 
product to the right customers at the right time 
and the right location for the right price. It 
sounds like it is tough and it is. Marketing 
successfully takes a touch of genius, a stroke
So I bet youre thinking Id 
like to start my own business, 
but how can I compete with 
todays modern, money-craving yuppie? 
of luck, and a lot of preparation.
Have you always dreamed of having an infi
nite supply of Tartan Burgers? Many an entre
preneur believes that it is money that makes 
the world go around. Money is the stuff that 
keeps the supplies rolling in, the ads in the 
paper, gas in the BMW, and the Goldfish fed. 
The successful entrepreneur is constantly 
juggling finances, with too little money, a 
business can easily go under, with too much 
money a business owner can get lazy and lose 
his or her competitive edge (Do the three 
letters IBM ring a bell?). If youre not com
fortable with how to get, use or keep money, 
then you wont have much of a chance to 
succeed in a business of your own.
Okay, so you say whats in it for me? 
the obvious financial benefits, imagine being 
completely independent from bosses, petty 
office bureaucracy, and piss-ant salary 
quabbles. Think of the benefits and then de
cide if you want to assume the risks of busi
ness.
David Bland is a board member for the 
University Entrepreneurial Association 
(UEA) atCMU.
Phil S. DiFrancesca is the research writer 
for the CMU Investment Group.
Money Wise will be a bi-weekly column fea
turing advice on financial matters and invest
ment.
ugtgRg YSgr 2U3gcR
2 Blocks from CMU
406 South Craig St. Oakland 
Phone: 621-HAIR
Yw1 ul6 
fN Ilu8F
Walk-ins Welcome
CITY LIGHTS
Year of Our
Constitution, What 
Role Does the United
States Play in Promot
ing World Law? a 
lecture given by Tim 
Bamer, Executive Director of the World
Links. In the board room of the YMCA 
building, 30 Blvd. of the Allies. Noon to 
1:00 pm. Free.
Thursday, November 19: 
fThe Twelve Nights of Christmas, South 
Craig Streets 1987 Light Up Nights, begin 
at 6:00-8:00 pm. Richard S. Caligiuri is 
scheduled to throw the switch to make 
South Craig Street glow for the holidays. 
Other festivities will include refreshments 
and entertainment as well as an ornament 
contest in which local, pre-school and ele
mentary school children have been invited 
to participate. Cash prizes will be awarded 
for the three most unique ornaments and all 
ornaments will be donated to Childrens 
Hospital.
A workshop on making aromatic holiday 
wreaths at the Frick Nature Center. In
structed by Judy Simon, the manager of an 
organic vegetable, herb, and livestock 
farm. Cost is $ 13 for non-residents of Pitts
burgh, which includes a $5 materials fee. 
7:00 pm. Pre-register at 422-6532.
The Pittsburgh Council of the American 
Youth Hostels will host a pre-season cross
country ski workshop from 6:30 to 8:30 pm 
at the Pittsburgh AYH headquarters, 6300 
Fifth Avenue in Shadyside. Free.
Friday, November 20:
The Depot, a play written by Eve Ensler, 
will be presented at Carlew Colleges 
Kresge Theater in Oakland. Cost is S15 per
Sponsored by ;
Links. 8:00 pm. 
Artist i isnan Hsu
will speak about his 
work in the Adamson 
Wing of Baker Hall. 
7:00 pm. Work by 
Hsu will be displayed 
starting November 22 at the CMU Art Gal
lery on South Craig Street.
Saturday, November 21:
A mediation seminar co-sponsored by the 
Criminal Justice Club of the Community 
College of Allegheny County and the Pitts
burgh Mediation Center will be held in the 
West Hall Auditorium of CCACs Al
legheny Conference. Mediation is the proc
ess by which a neutral third party helps two 
disputing parties to come to a mutually 
agreeable solution. 9:00 am to 3:00 pm. 
Cost is $7. For more information, or to ob
tain a registration form, call 237-2637. 
Sunday, November 22:
Swiss graphic designer Ruedi Ruegg will 
lecture on The Roots of Swiss Poster De
sign at 2:00 pm at the CMU Art Gallery on 
South Craig Street. Sponsored by the Art 
Department.
Monday, November 23:
The Pittsburgh-AIlegheny County Chap
ter of the American Red Cross will conduct 
an Infant/Child CPR course from 6:30 to 
10:00 pm at its chapter headqurters located 
at 225 Blvd. of the Allies. Cost is $ 12. For 
more information call the Red Cross at 263- 
3100.
Wednesday, November 25:
Crisis Control, a film and discussion 
based on Beyond the Hotline byWilliam 
Ury, Associate Director of the Harvard 
Negotiation Project, in the board room of 
the YMCA building, 30 Blvd. of the Allies. 
Noon to 1:00 pm. Free.
BeRTSW KeCp _7rT 
ff St / _ st 
F%gve :rUW BSEEUr
&j
Sj
o"co
>
On
szCO
teTUP aSPP der S drUU 
tS%UeCUr TArgRc 
;BS%UeCUr BeRE49
<

---------------------------------------------------

OTTPOIEIK
M1.. *w>8/K 6l6n1K: 
FARp/ 64Ar3p /fN hpBp
CALCULUS
PHYSICS
CHEMISTRY
ECONOMICS
ACADEMIC WRITING
INTRO. TO COMPUTING
PH 107-A 
PH 107-B 
PH 225-B 
PH 126-B 
PH 126-C 
WeH5409
Sponsored by Counseling & Student Development Center and Student Affairs
Today is made possible, in part, by Engelhard Corporation.
Engelhard creates technologies that are. in a word, exceptional
Technologies that help create your personal computer, television and 
stereo components, your VCR. your telephone Technologies that keep the 
planes you fly comfortable, safe, and reliable That keep your car running 
smoothly, kitchen well stocked, your body healthy, the air clean Technologies 
that help refine gasoline, oil. and jet fuels, and make essential parts for 
satellites, space vehicles, aircraft, and more Much more
The fact is. Engelhard s continuing development of thousands of 
exceptional technologies will continue to help us lead lives of exceptional 
qualityevery day
 XCFPT/ONAL TFCHNOiCX/f S
' Copyright 1986 Enqemard Corporation

---------------------------------------------------



e
0
WRCT Presents... 
Freedom of Speech
w 6SP% F4eo ed hePgEgaSP 2gCUr3gEW 
J*4UrU E4U F4gE YgE3 E4U MSRpJ
Monday Evenings  8:30 PM
FEATURE esgRgeR3 dret Sare33 E4U sePgEgaSP 3sUaErAt
Chuck Jainchill - Moderator
Featuring:
On the Left
Allen Greenberg & Mike Bowman
On the Right 
Aaron Solomon & Tom Heim
Upcoming Debates: 
Nov 23 :Gay Rights and the AIDS epidemic 
Nov 30 :Reagan Revolution, Did it happen?
uSPP/gR3 SPoSW3 oUPaetUp 
6ARU gR mmp7 MB? WeAr aStsA3 3ESEgeRp
Funded by Student Activities Fee.
SPACE SYSTEMS
STI - Software Technology, Inc. is a small, progressive systems & 
software engineering firm providing services for critical DoD/NASA 
missions. We are seeking talented, ambitious, and technically 
innovative individuals with engineering skills in the following areas:
-AI- Space Systems- Realtime Systems- GKS/Ada- Graphics- Scientific Software
Electrical and Computer Engineering, Applied Math, and Physics majors 
should schedule interviews for November 30,1987 with the CMU 
Career Services and Placement Office.
Interviews will be conducted by:
Vice-President of D.C. Operations 
&
Vice-President Space Systems
Excellent salary & exceptional benefits package, including stock 
options & profit sharing plan. U.S. Citizenship required. Send resume 
or call:
STI
Software Technology, Inc.
401 Wythe Street 
Alexandria, Virginia 22314 
(703)548-6727
CMU Computer Store
CMU Computer Store: UCC - A level
Phone: x2636 MS: PS00@TE ps00@andrew 
For a current price list: Type HELP COMPUTER-STORE-PRICES on any TOPS
System.
Whats Up at the CMU Computer Store:
HyperCard Presentation 
Wednesday, Nov. 18th 
fN/_
Control them. Subdue them. Then moke them luxuriant. 
Thick-Ends is the sensational way for getting dry, 
damaged ends to behave beautifully. Just leave on after 
shampooing to condition, moisturize and add thickness. 
And see how civilized your split ends can be.
Save $4 on Haircuts
with mention of ad & student ID
Regular Price $15-$18 
offer good 
Mon, Tue, Wed 9am - 3pm 
expires Dec. 12
Lewis
813 S. Alcan feme  Shadyskte 682-4063
TAME
THOSE
WILD
ENDS.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanNovember 17,1987
Can Anybody Stop the Lakers?
Eastern Conference:
gPTO.P13 F1A1t1U.v
1. Boston Celtics
2. Washington Bullets
3. Philadelphia 76ers
4. New Jersey Nets
5. New York Knicks
>E.PeOT F1A1t1U.v
1. Detroit Pistons
2. Atlanta Hawks
3. Milwaukee Bucks
4. Chicago Bulls
5. Indiana Pacers
6. Cleveland Cavaliers
Western Conference:
:1woEtP F1A1t1U.v
1. Dallas Mavericks
2. Utah Jazz
3. Houston Rockets
4. Sacramento Kings
5. Denver Nuggets
6. San Antonio Spurs
dO31a13 F1A1t1U.v
1. Los Angeles Lakers
2. Seattle Super Sonics
3. Golden State Warriors
4. Phoenix Suns
5. Portland Trail Blazers
6. Los Angeles Clippers
By DAVID BRILL
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
Eastern Conference-Atlantic Division 
Boston: After a gritty performance by mak
ing the finals last year with Bill Walton out and 
Kevin McHale and Robert Parish hobbling, 
the Celtics will gain from the experience and 
repeat as Atlantic Division champs. However, 
even with what is arguably the best starting 
five in the league, somewhere along the line 
there is going to be a need to trade for some 
bench strength if they hope to beat the Lakers, 
or even fend off challenges by Atlanta and 
Detroit. Larry Bird will be, as usual, the key; 
he is the man who molds the team together and 
as long as hes healthy the Celtics will be back 
on top.
Washington: Thanks to last years acquisi
tion of Moses Malone the Bullets have a good 
starting five including Jeff Malone at guard. If 
Manute Bol can become more of a force and 
first round draft pick Tyrone Bogues works 
out the Bullets will finish in a solid second. 
Adding Bernard King gives the Bullets one 
more weapon. Overall though, the Bullets still 
dont have the personnel to challenge the 
Celtics. As far as the playoffs are concerned 
they will probably lose in the second round to 
either Atlanta or Detroit.
Philadelphia: The Sixers came off a disap
pointing season by bowing out of the playoffs 
in the first round to Milwaukee 3-2. Charles 
Barkley was the only bright spot on the team 
besides the impressive play of newly acquired 
center Tim McCormick. Roy Hinson will be a 
key to the 76ers success; if he can play consis
tently the 76ers will be able to challenge the 
Bullets for second. If Hinson cant do it the 
76ers will finish a mediocre third and will be 
bounced out of the playoffs in the first round.
New Jersey: A team full of talent, yet cant 
play together as a team. Pearl Washington, last 
years first round draft pick, was an utter dis
appointment The only bright point of the sea
son was Buck Williams, who is one of the 
premier rebounding forwards in the league. He 
again had over 1,000 rebounds. Orlando 
Woolridge, acquired last year from Chicago, 
scored 20.7 points a game, but he didnt al
ways show up and his lack of intensity hurt the 
Nets. With the #3 pick in the draft the Nets 
chose Dennis Hopson an all-American from 
Ohio State. He will be a huge help to the team 
but not enough to put the Nets over the hump. 
Theyll finish fourth behind the Sixers and 
wont make the playoffs.
New York: The Knicks have been plagued 
by bad management and lack of good trades. 
Center Bill Cartwright should have been 
traded by now. Patrick Ewing has played well 
but has been injured a lot and that hasnt 
helped. Hopefully new Coach Rick Pitino can 
revitalize this dreadful team. After picking 
Marie Jackson in the first round, they have a 
bona fide point guard. Rick Pitino has a tough 
job ahead of him and since Bernard King is 
now a Washington Bullet, they are destined 
for a last place finish.
Midwest Division 
Detroit: After a good regular season the Pis
tons came within two games of making the 
NBA championship. With a solid core of for
wards, Isiah Thomas and Joe Dumars at guard, 
and Bill Laimbeer in the middle, the Pistons 
have a very strong starting five. Isiah led the 
Pistons past the Hawks in the playoffs, but hurt 
them severely in the Boston series with an 
inbounds pass that cost them a game. A tough 
team, but not good enough to knock off the 
Celtics.
Atlanta: After a strong second half the 
Hawks took the Central Division title and their 
record was third best in the league. On offense 
the explosive Dominique Wilkins is as good as 
any. The main question is can the Hawks beat
the Pistons in the playoffs? The hawks will 
finish second to the Pistons and again will lose 
to them in the second round playoff thriller.
Milwaukee: The Bucks finished third after 
dominating the Central Division for the past 
few years. With the loss of Don Nelson and the 
disappointing play of Center Jack Sikma, the 
future is uncertain. The injury to guard Sidney 
Moncrief is severe enough to end his career 
and elevate Ricky Pierce to a starting role. 
However, that wont be the Bucks main con
cern; it will be can they play as a team under a 
new coach? Theyll make the playoffs but 
wont get past the more talented Atlanta, 
Detroit and Boston.
Chicago: The Bulls are synonymous with 
guard Michael Jordan who led the league with 
an astonishing 37.1 average per game. How
ever, now they have a compliment to Charles 
Oakley in first round draft picks Scott Pippen 
and Horace Grant. Trying to spread out the 
offense will be tough considering that when 
Jordan is off, the Bulls lose. Due to a lack of 
overall talent, they will finish fourth and lose 
in the first round of the playoffs.
Indiana: Finished at .500 for the first time 
since 1980-81. First round draft pick Chuck 
Person turned out to be a gold mine, taking 
Rookie of the Year Honors. A questionable 
draft in UCLAs Reggie Miller but if it pans 
out the Pacers will have a competitive starting 
five. Still a dominant guard and a good center 
away from serious contention, the Pacers 
could squeak in as the last team to make the 
playoffs.
Cleveland: They have a strong nucleus of 
players led by first round draft pick Ron 
Harper, his robust 22.9 point average he led a 
respectable Cavalier team. Brad Daughtery 
was another first round pick and gave the 
Cavaliers some toughness up front with John 
Hot Rod Williams. The Cavaliers lack any 
skill at the other forward and guard and have a 
very suspect defense. Unless 87 first round 
pick, guard Kevin Johnson, makes a big con
tribution, the Cavs will be in the cellar.
Western Conference-Midwest Division
Dallas: Last year was the most successful 
year in Maverick history until they rudely 
exiteg} with a first round loss to Seattle. Butincredible depth at forward and good guards the 
Mavs are a dominating center away from 
making the finals. The Mavs have two prolific 
scorers in Mark Aguirre and Roland Blackmen and excellent help from rookie Roy Tarpley. Dallas will be very tough but will not be 
able to overcome the Lakers. If they meet 
Seattle in the playoffs look for an amazing 
rematch of last years battle.
Utah: Has some good scoring punch but 
they dont have the talent to play with Dallas, 
L.A. and Seattle. Forward Karl Malore has 
been perfect for the Jazz giving them a daily 20 
points and 10 rebounds. Hes the only stable 
man up front because of their lack of a good 
center. Mark Eaton can block shots and thats 
it. Kelly Tripuka has been a disappointment 
and hasnt contributed. Utah will be about the 
same as last year and will probably finish 2nd. 
They may win in the first round of the playoffs, 
but no further.
Houston: With a talented core of forwards, 
and Akeem Olajuwon at center, the Rockets 
have a frontcourt that can play with anyone, 
the problem is at guard. With no help in the 
draft the Rockets cant play with the top teams. 
Unless they make a trade, the Rockets will 
finish third but wont go far in the playoffs.
Sacramento: The Kings last year were just 
outmatched in personnel. There were two 
bright spots to their season, Lasalle Thompson 
and Otis Thorpe both played impressively 
until injuries cut the season short for Thom
pson. With Bill Russell at the helm, theyre in 
capable hands. Theyll make the playoffs but 
will leave quickly nothing able to match up 
with the stronger teams.
Denver: With no first round draft pick and a 
sub 500 record the Nuggets are in trouble. 
Their best scorer is Alex English who finished 
another strong year with a 28.6 point per game 
scoring average. Fat Lever is a big plus and
always hustles. He was the one consistent 
force during the season. With no help in sight, 
the Nuggets are headed for a time that was 
worse than last year.
San Antonio: The next two years will be hel1 
for Spurs fans. The wait for David Robinson 
will be excruciating; watching the Spurs play 
will make you turn off the TV. Happily, Walter 
Berry will excel in this environment where he 
and Alvin Robertson will share the spotlight. 
Until Robinson starts playing the Spurs are in 
trouble.
Pacific Division
Los Angeles Lakers: The defending champs 
have all the pieces intact and repeating on their 
mind. After picking up Mychal Thompson in 
a trade last year, the Lakers finally had a 
quality backup. With MVP Magic Johnson, 
they have all positions covered. Their only 
weakness is in A.C. Green who is more than 
capable but is the weak link. With their only 
competition in Seattle and Dallas, the Lakers 
look like theyll be ready for a title defense.
Seattle: After a superb playoff, the Sonics 
will look for some consistency in the regular 
season. They went all the way to the Western 
Conference finals where they were beaten by 
the Los Angeles Lakers, the eventual champs. 
Three Sonics averaged over 23 points per 
game, including Dale Ellis at 24.9, Tom 
Chambers at 23.3 and Xavier McDaniel at 
23.0. The Sonics in the offseason made some 
good moves by picking up Olden Polnyce and 
Derrick McKey in the first round. Bemie 
Bickerstaff did a remarkable job with the 
Sonics, especially in the playoffs and hes one 
of the top coaches in the league. Unfortu
nately, the Sonics will lose to the Lakers again 
in the playoffs, but will finish second in the 
regular season.
Portland: With Sam Bowie down with inju-f 
ries, the Trail Blazers were exploited at their 
weakness in the center position. At forward, 
Kiki Vanderweigh continues to be an offen
sive threat but thats it. Clyde Drexler played 
extremely well, averaging 21.7a game and has 
drawn accolades from the coaches across the 
league. Also, guard Terry Porter has played 
well, contributing every night. The problem is 
that there isnt enough talent to challenge 
Dallas or L.A. They will finish third just be
hind the Sonics and will probably lose in the 
second round of the playoffs.
Golden State: This is a team that was very 
hurt by first round draft pick Chris 
Washburns drug use. Although not missed 
because of the excellent play of Joe Barry 
Carroll, Washburn hurt the team emotionally 
and it took them half the season to get over it. 
St. Johns product Chris Mullin finally got his 
game in gear and produced a productive 15.1 
ppg. The Warriors biggest gain came when, 
they acquired the services of Don Nelson as 
General Manager and part owner. With his 
involvement, the Warriors can only improve. 
Another playoff bid is inevitable but they 
wont get far.
Phoenix: Phoenix has many problems and 
partially solved them in the draft. Selecting 
Armon Gilliam in the first round was wise and 
fills the void at power forward. The main 
problem lies in a weak center and no one to 
back up Walter Davis (23.6 ppg) and Larry 
Nance (22.5 ppg). The season will be a waste 
unless Gilliam can become a bona fide AllStar. If they make the playoffs, theyll quickly 
exit in the first round.
Los Angeles Clippers: The Clippers fin
ished with a 12-70 record and a new coach. 
With first round draft pick Reggie Williams, 
the Clippers get a great all-around forward to 
complement Michael Cage. Cage, the 
Clippers only bright spot, finished in the top 
ten in rebounding and played consistently. The 
Clippers need lots of help and basically this 
year will be a total loss, as was last year.

---------------------------------------------------

November 17,1987The TartanPage 21
Yea%UW uPAv FESrE3 FUS3eR nAE ed FseEPgc4E
PITT BREAKS HOME JINX
For the first time since Joe Patemo 
became Head Coach at Penn State, the 
Panthers have defeated the Nittany 
Lions at home. In a game filled with 
dropped passes and missed field goals, 
Pitt won, 10-0.
According to the Pittsburgh Press, 
after the game, Pitt received a bid to the 
Bluebonnet Bowl to play an undeter
mined opponent.
TARTAN FOES IN PLAYOFFS
The three teams the football Tartans 
were unable to beat this season, are all 
headed to the NCAA Div. Ill playoffs. 
Washington and Jefferson, Allegheny, 
and Hiram all finished the season ranked 
in the nations top 10, and will start play 
next weekend. W&J and Hiram both 
play in the Presidents Athletic Confer
ence and this marks the first time two 
teams from the PAC have made post
season play.
USA WINS IN GOLF
Curtis Strange led the United States to 
a 10-2 victory over Europe in the World 
Championship of Golf at Inagi, Japan. 
Stranges teammates were Payne Ste
wart, Lenny Wadkins, Scott Simpson, 
Mark Calcavecchia, and Tom Kite.
FREE AGENTS SIGNED
Mike Schmidt and Cal Ripken, Jr. 
headed a list of players who resigned 
with their old ballclubs hours before the 
free agent declaration deadline last 
week. Notable players who did not 
resign included Jack Clark of St. Louis, 
Mike Witt of the Angels, the Tigers 
Jack Morris, Milwakees Paul Molitor, 
and Joaquin Andujar of Oakland.
CY YOUNG WINNERS NAMED
The National and American Leagues 
named their respective 1987 Cy Young 
Awards this past week. The Nationals 
voted Steve Bedrosian of Philadelphia, 
who set the record for consecutive suc
cessful save attempts earlier this year, 
while the junior circuit gave the nod to 
Bostons Roger Clemens for the second 
year in a row. Bedrosian was only the 
third relief pitcher to win the award. 
Bedrock edged out the Cubs Rick Sut
cliffe 57-55, the closest margin ever in 
the senior circuit voting. The American 
League voting was much less eventfull, 
as Clemens ran away with 21 of the 28 
possible first place votes.
SPECTRUM HAUNTS PENS
The Pittsburgh Penguins continued 
their losing streak in the Philadelphia 
Spectrum this week, as the Penguins 
dropped a 5-2 decision to their Patrick 
Division rivals. Pittsburgh has not been 
able to win in the Spectrum since 1974, 
and in those games the Pens are a hap
less 0-36-3.
MCKINNEY BREAKS ANKLE
The United States Tamara McKinney 
suffered a broken left ankle in training 
last week. The break is not considered 
serious, and she is expected to return 
within 6-8 weeks. The injury is not 
considered to be serious enough to 
eliminate her from the Calgary Olympic 
games in February. Tamara has a legacy 
of success behind her, as she has won 18 
World Cup races, the most by any USA 
skier.
By NEAL A. LEVENE
Tartan Staffwriter
Amongst the haste and hype of the end of all 
the Fall sports and the beginning of basketball 
season, the mens hockey club sometimes gets 
lost in the shuffle. The squad is already three 
games deep into their season having played 
Slippery Rock, Mercyhurst, and Duquesne.
Last year the Tartans finished second in the 
West Pennsylvania College Hockey Associa
tion (WPCHA) behind Duquesne. After fin
ishing 7-4-3 in the WPCHA (7-7-3 overall) the 
Tartans blew away Slippery Rock in the first 
round to advance to the Semifinals where the 
team beat Gannon, 5-4.
The win sent CMU back home to the finals 
where they met Duquesne. After the first 
period the Tartans were behind 4-1, however, 
three late goals tied up the game. After such 
an impressive comeback, it was heart-breaking to have the game survive only the opening 
moments of overtime. During a Carnegie 
Mellon man advantage, a pass was intercepted 
at mid-ice by Duquesne. The Duke, with most 
of the Tartan defenders caught up-ice, had no 
trouble getting the puck in the net for a short 
handed goal and a clinch of the WPCHA title.
Looking at this year, the current team is 
much different from last years team. The club 
lost a lot of people to graduation, as well as 
losing many key graduate students this year. 
Among the missing Tartans Mike McGuire 
and Pat Merchak, the two power forwards who 
were responsible for much of last years suc
cess, graduated leaving CMU hurting in the 
scoring department. Similarly, Chris Galvin, 
who had a strong freshman season last year (5 
goals, 7 assists), transferred to the University 
of Massachusetts while left wing Kenon Smith 
and defenseman Mark Licata also are gone.
In order to compensate for the loss of scor
ing, both Mark Robson and Sean McGinn will 
be moving from their traditional defensive po
sitions up to the forward line to give more size 
and strength. Tri-captain Rich Nave com
mented, Our scoring is still probably going to 
come from the same place this year. Greg 
Timmons is back and he is probably going to 
score most of our goals for us, we hope. We are 
going to have to rely on strong defense again. 
We will basically be a low scoring team with 
low scoring games. Timmons finished last 
season with 21 goals and 22 assists.
The team is especially hopeful about their 
two new freshmen, Craig Palli and Denny 
Frey. Palli will be centering the second for
ward line while Frey will be filling one of the 
vacancies in defense.
As the offense stands right now, the first line 
will consist of McGinn, Timmons, and Rob
son. John Blackwood and Palli will dominate 
the second line, while Todd Henderson leads 
up the third line. Coach Bobby Koch (Carne
gie Mellon 86) constantly experiments with 
different line matchups so the returning Dave 
Basile, Marty Gorman, and Brian Nogrady are 
sure to be an important part of the Tartan 
offense. On defense the returning players Jim 
Larson and Rich Nave along with Frey will 
take on considerable responsibility on the 
defense. John Kerber will be standing in at 
goal again this season. Kerber had the 4th best 
goals against record in the league last season.
So far this season, in exhibition play the 
Tartans met their inner-city rivals the 
Duquesne Dukes. The Dukes moved out of the 
WPCHA this year and are now competing in 
Division III. As if to prove they had outgrown 
the WPCHA, the Dukes took it to the Tartans 
beating them in their first match. The Tartans 
did rally back and defeat Penn State 
McKeesport in their second exhibition match.
The regular season opened with a 2-1 victory 
over the Tartans WPCHA opponent Slippery 
Rock. The Tartans next faced Mercyhurst in 
an out-of-conference matchup. According to
Nave, We were beaten badly by Mercyhurst. 
They are a Division III team and were much 
bigger, faster, and stronger than us. They were 
playing four lines to our two; however, we
played with them for a period and a half. We 
were down 2-1 and then they blew us out in the 
second half. The final score was 8-3. The 
team also lost a well played game to Duquesne 
which makes their overall record 1-2 with a 1-
0 record in the WPCHA.
Male Runners 
Nationals Bound
continued from page 24
race. Theyre probably peaking at just the 
right time. I look for them somewhere be
tween eleventh and fifteenth. Luck plays a big 
part in it.
Harrison agrees with his coachs analysis. 
Get Dave and Lenny healthy and probably, 
top fifteen at least.
Regardless of the teams performance this 
weekend, Coach Meckley is certain to be 
pleased with the years results. Ive gotten 
more out of this team talent-wise than any 
other team Ive had, thats why I want them to 
win so bad.
Women Runners 
Place Eleventh
continued from page 22
Burgard, DiMarco, and Truske all return and 
will be joined by Francesca Crannell and Jes
sica Kaplan, both of whom were forced to miss 
the Regionals due to injury.
Says Donatelli, I feel confident, I think 
were in good shape, theyre a dedicated crew.
1 think as a team were getting better, but 
replacing Pat will be tough.
vv
4


---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanNovember 17,1987
YUg3Ur .RT3 uSrUUr S3 hPSWUr ed E4U :StU
By JUDY GROSSMAN
Tartan Staffwriter 
For Carnegie Mellon, the final game against 
Washington University was a walk in the park. 
But for the 14 senior Tartan football players, 
the game meant much more. It marked their 
last college football game, and, presumably, 
the end of their football careers.
The Washington University game was the 
seniors showcase, and the spotlight shone on 
senior co-captain Billy Heiser, the PHI (Pan
ther Hollow Inn) player of the game.
Heiser rushed for only nine yards on four 
carries and had only one pass reception, a 19- 
yard pass from senior quarterback Mike 
Hensel, but he scored the Tartans final touch
down on a one-yard run, and it was his 19-yard 
catch on fourth down and 15 that kept the drive 
alive and set up his score.
Heiser finished the season the teams sixthleading rusher and fifth-leading receiver. He 
had 40 carries for 137 yards and 2 touchdowns 
and 10 receptions for 138 yards. But despite 
the lack of phenomenal statistics, Heiser 
played an important role in the Tartans suc
cess this year. His experience and versatility 
helped a relatively young Carnegie Mellon 
team.
Heiser came to Carnegie Mellon as a defen
sive back and wide receiver. I had never run 
before, until my junior year in college. It just 
happened that running back was the position 
for me. So never having run before, I wasnt 
disappointed at the lack of big numbers. 
Heiser is the only graduating senior in a 
youthful Tartan backfield. The Tartans ro
tated running backs often, giving the younger 
running backs ample playing time. Carnegie 
Mellon boasted a strong backfield, and the 
senior predicts that it will be even stronger
next year.
Theyll have a great backfield next year 
largely because of the experience the younger 
players got this year, declared Heiser. Plus, 
theyll only be losing one back. The remaining 
backs are freshmen and sophomores, and they 
got a lot of playing time this season.
Though his primary role was supposed to be 
as a running back and receiver, when fellow 
co-captain and roommate Billy Cramer went 
out with an arm injury, Heiser stepped in at 
punt returner. Heiser had nine punt returns for 
35 yards.
The whole time during practice, Id return 
punts for fun, remarked the Mt. Vernon na
tive. So when Billy got hurt, Id already had 
practice. Billy had a great return against
Duquesne, and I got that film and watched 
him, and saw how he ran it back. I had no 
problems catching punts, but running them 
back was more difficult, and watching Billy 
really helped me out that way.
The Washington game had marked the end of 
Heisers football career, but he didnt think 
about the fact that he was playing his last game 
until after the final gun had sounded, and the 
Tartans had soundly crushed their visitors.
I didnt really feel anything until later that 
night, watching other college games. It was 
weird thinking that Im older than all those 
guys playing now. Ill definitely miss playing 
football because Ive played for so long, and 
itll be strange when fall comes around, being 
a spectator and not a player.
Women 11th 
In the East
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Sports Editor 
You have to believe its getting better, 
getting better all the time. So goes part 
of a chorus to a song, it also describes 
the fortunes of the womens cross-coun
try team.
After starting the season advertising 
for players, copying the tactics of last 
years womens swimming team, the 
Lady Tartans placed eleventh at the 
NCAA Eastern Regionals despite miss
ing two key runners.
The Lady Tartans were led by All-East 
runner Sue Johnson who placed seven
teenth overall. Johnson was one of just 
two Carnegie Mellon runners who had 
participated in the Regionals before
hand. Following her were Pat Fall, 
Kristin Burgard, Trish DiMarco, and 
Lynn Truske.
Burgard, a freshman, started off the 
race in the lead. We had a good posi
tion on the starting line, we got to start 
off quickly, that made a lot of difference 
for them. She (Kristin) was leading the 
race for the first 400 yards. She got out 
a little too quick, and it took her out of 
the race, described Donatelli.
Fall, despite being a senior, was par
ticipating in her first Regional. I de
cided to run cross-country this season. I 
wish I had started as a freshman...For me 
this year, I ran a lot better in the dual 
meets. In the large meets it would be 
pretty overwhelming.
Hopes are high for next year, Johnson, 
continued on page 21
PAYLESS
CAR RENTAL
ALSO DBA HOLDAV'* PAYLESS' RENT-A-CAR
Our Name Says It All*
y_f/yNN
5600 Wilkins Ave.Pgh. Pa. 15217 (Squirrel Hill)
Weekend SpecialsLow Daily * Weekly Rates "Must be 21 or over
 Most Major Credit Cards Accepted (Students' and Parents' cards accepted.)15 and 7 Passenger Vans available also* 1/2 mile from Campus 
oume82o, ioi rtB6 Heservaoons1*800-237-2804 or Cal tour'tw* Agent
/ 
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center 268-2922
After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator will help you reach the staff 
member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh................................................................................... 782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive listening
Drug Connection............................................................................................ 854-0700
An alcohoi/drug crisis hotline, 5 - 9 pm
Tel-Aid..................................... ...................................................................... 281-4664
A Series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safety issues. 
Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs
;64U IU3E hPSaU 
R 6eoR Mer w 
*gRc nAE9
Mike Kalina-Pgh. Press
Over a Dozen Sauces 
From Mild-Mild to 
Death Sauce!!
uw>>
L_f /*K
Our Ribs?
Best in the City
Marianis Coast to-Coast Dining Guida
RIB HOUSE
Ribs  Chicken  Barbecue
MURRAYAVENUE
Open 3:30 p.m. T-H till 10:30 
F-S till 11:30 
Open Sundays  till 8

---------------------------------------------------

Scoreboard
Tartan Sports Calendar
November 17: Hockey vs Gannon University at Lakeview, 5:30 pm 
Sportsline on WRCT-FM (88.3), 8:30 pm 
Guests: Lisa Lightner, Aimee Reber, Beth Virgin 
November 20: Womens Basketball: Carlow vs Brandeis at Skibo Gym, 3:00 pm 
Womens Basketball: Carnegie Mellon vs Case Western Reserve at 
Skibo Gym, 5:00 pm (WRCT)
Mens Basketball: Brandeis vs Case Western at Skibo Gym, 7:00 pm 
Mens Basketball: Carnegie Mellon vs Emory at Skibo Gym, 9:00 pm 
(WRCT)
November 21: Womens Basketball: Consolation Game at Skibo Gym, 2:00 pm 
Mens Basketball: Consolation Game at Skibo Gym, 4:00 pm 
Womens Basketball: Championship Game at Skibo Gym, 6:00 pm 
Mens Basketball: Championship Game at Skibo Gym, 8:00 pm 
November 22: Hockey vs Penn State West at Lakeview, 1:30 pm (WRCT)
RACQUETBALL
IM News
BACKGAMMON
Commissioner A1 Margarella x5516. Last 
call for Backgammon! Final entry date Thurs
day, November 19 at 4:30 pm. 
BASKETBALL
* Commissioners:
Majors Pat Jeffries x4299 
Intermediate Eric Jacobs x5510 
Minors BJ. Rottschaefer x5503 
Women Only TBA
SOCCER
Commissioners:
Majors Stu Fox x4226 
Intermediate and Womens - Stephanie 
Tinczak x4229 
Minor - Mike Grzywinski 681-2826 
Make up games are posted on the IM Bulletin 
Board. Please play all games as scheduled.
DARTS
Commissioner - Rob Moses 683-8409 
Please report results of your matches to 
Commissioner or the IM office. 
RACQUETBALL 
.Commissioner- Carl Bell x5509 
Please report scores to the IM office. All 
make up games must be scheduled through the 
commissioner and the IM office.
TABLE TENNIS 
Commissioner Bob Koca x8995 
CHESS
Commissioner Matt Murbach.
Please report the results of your matches to 
commissioner Murbach at x3934 asap. 
BOWLING
Commissioner Randy Brown x5501 
Schedules and Standings are posted at the 
Strand Lanes. Matches will be rolled at the 
Strand Lanes on Saturday mornings.
6-PERSON VOLLEYBALL
Womens Championship 
The undefeated regular, season champion 
CIA-Women captured the Womens Champi
onship in two straight games over the Mathletes: The following were named to the 6- 
Person Volleyball Womens All-Star team: 
Chris Deold 
Lynn Hopkins 
Karin Ketchman 
Roseanna Neupauer 
sMiao Li 
Carla Slebodnick 
Minors Championship 
The Pioneers-B team captured the Minors 
Championship 15-11, 15-12 over CIA. The 
Pioneers-B, captained by John Riccardi, had 
to win a tie-breaker game just to qualify for the 
playoffs, capped their comeback season by 
capturing the title. Kevin Truffa was named 
V,ost Valuable Player. Other Pioneers-B team 
players turning in strong performances were 
Paul Van Buskrik and Carlos Franco. CIA was 
lead by the strong play of Scott Greenholt. 
Intermediate Championship 
The Mech E. Grad I team proved to be the 
cream of the Intermediate league as it won the 
Championship in straight games over AFROTC. Most Valuable Player, Eric Colburn 
and teammates, Song Choi and Steve Schof
ield contributed strong play throughout the 
playoffs. AFROTC captain Dave Tobar and 
teammate Debbie St. Pierre led the losers.
Majors Championship 
In an exciting Championship match The 
Club held on to claim the majors 6-Person 
Volleyball Championship, 2 games to 1 over 
Computer Science-I. Mike Goddard of The 
Club was named Most Valuable Player. The 
1987 IM Majors All-Star Team consisted of: 
Dirk Kalp - Computer Science-I 
Ernie Hua- The Club 
Mike Goddard - The Club 
Roberto Amadio- Computer Science-I 
Golf - The Club 
John Cheng - Computer Science-I 
Official Club
Floor Hockey and Basketball Officials are 
now being accepted by the IM Officials Club. 
If you are interested in joining the club for 
Floor Hockey or Basketball, please stop in the 
IM office, room 101 gym, or call x2214, to 
sign-up. Any questions dealing with the offi
cials club can be directed to Assistant Intramu
ral Director Mike Mastroianni.
IM TENNIS
It was GSIA not MBA who took the 1987 
CMU Tennis Championship in the Major 
League. They were followed closely by 
PhiKap who took second place and Mix and 
Match team who took third.
In the Intermediate League, Sig Tau was the 
champion followed by PiLam for second place 
in the intermediate League. Sig Tau defeated 
PiLam in the Championship game.
WATER POLO
The IM Water Polo season ended on Thurs
day, 11/6 with the majors, undefeated champi
ons SAE taking on an all-star team composed 
from the rest of the league. In some of the best 
Water Polo seen on this campus, the all-star 
team led by Whitney Foster won 12-8.
AFROTC were the minors champions, they 
were undefeated as well during the season. 
First Team All-Stars 
B - Randy Johnson-SAE 
F - Carl Bell-Phi Kap 
F - Marc Archambault-Theta Xi 
G - Jay Howell-SAE 
Second Team
B - John Olavasky-Theta Xi 
F - Greg Schooley-DU 
F - Pat Hensler-Theta Xi 
G - Jay Stevens-Phi Kap 
MVP - Randy Johnson 
3-PERSON VOLLEYBALL 
Commissioner: Stephanie Janczak - x4229 
Games started on November 12th. This year 
there will be NO schedule changes. 
OTHER IM TEAMS 
The CMU Intramural All Star Soccer Team 
will play Chatham Colleges Intramural All 
Star Team on Saturday, November 20th at 
11:00 am on the Chatham Soccer Field located 
behind the Chatham Gym Building.
NEXT IM BOARD MEETING
The next Intramural Board meeting will be 
held Thursday, November 19th at 1:00pm in 
the Conference Room of the gym building.
MajorsWonLoss
KAPPA SIGMA50
THE TOASTERS41
PHI KAP-A20
PILAM23
6-E TEAM A23
PHI KAP-B02
Y ASHS CREW02
THE GREAT GUYS04
MinorsWonLoss
SIG TAU40
DELTA UPSILON21
AFROTC22
ALPHA EPSILON PI23
6-E TEAM B23
A-CLUB01
HAMMER SLAMMERS13
TEAM TABLE TENNIS
Majors-National LeagueWonLoss
GSIA30
cso30
THE 21S21
THE ROGUES12
FORCE 1003
RMPG. ZULA COM. AARD.03
Majors-American LeagueWonLoss
MELLON HEADS40
THE TOPSPINNERS30
KILL SHOTS32
PHI KAPPA12
AEPi13
THE PROF. HIT MEN03
Minors-Pacific LeagueWonLoss
CSD40
SHEAR STRESS21
THE VOID22
SLURPS12
SMODNOCS12
PILAM03
SOCCER
MAJORS
EAST DIVISIONwLT
CLYDE GANG400
D.U.210
CHESGA120
GARGOYLES120
CMUtants030
WEST DIVISIONwLT
REAL MELLON400
GSIA311
KSA111
SAE130
GLOBETROTTER 130
TEAM-X050
INTERMEDIATE
DIVISION AWLT
VACANCINES301
ME GRADS210
PI LAM211
ATO220
PIKA020
DIVISION BWLT
PHI KAP200
ZOO-A210
WAWAWS IV220
KAPPA SIG020
CIA040
MINORS
DIVISION AwLT
DYNAMIC RAMS 300
THETAXI310
MEAN MACHINE 210
KDR210
SMODNOCS120
SDC130
DOHERTY DYN.030
DIVISION BwLT
SIG TAU400
DTD310
CIA TEAM220
WHAT?!120
AEPI130
AFROTC020
MUDGE SCHLAG.O20
All-Sports Top 15
1. SPIRIT
2. MECH E GRADS
3. ECE D RAMS
4. PiKA
5. AFROTC
6. PIONEERS
7. PHI KAP
8. SAE
9. THE CLUB
10. COMPUTER SCIENCE
11. SUPA
12. STG
13. CIA
14. EASY MONEY 
15 THE WAVE
570
377 1/3 
353 
320 
258 
236 
220 
170 
160 
143 
126
113 1/3 
92 
90 
90
NCAA Division III Mens X-Country Poll
1. Wisconsin-LaCrosse
2. North Central, 111.
3. Wisconsin-Oshkosh
4. Rochester
5. Wisconsin-Stevens Point
6. Luther, Iowa
7. Rochester Institute of Technology
8. (tie) Massachusetts-Boston 
St. ThomaS; Minn.
10. Brandeis, Mass.
11. Loras, Iowa
12. St. Lawrence, NY
13. Glassboro State, NJ
14. St. Josephs, Maine
15. SUNY-Cortland
Others Receiving Votes: Calvin, Mich; 
Washington, Mo; College of Notre Dame, 
Calif.; Simpson, Iowa; Grinnell, Iowa; CAR
NEGIE MELLON, Pa.; Case Western Re
serve, Ohio.
NCAA Division III Womens X-Country Poll
1. Wisconsin-Oshkosh
2. Ithaca, NY
3. St. Thomas, Minn.
4. Wisconsin-LaCrosse
5. Rochester, NY
6. St. Olaf, Minn.
7. College of Notre Dame, Calif.
8. Wisconsin-Stevens Point
9. Carleton, Minn.
10. Tufts, Mass.
11. SUNY-Cortland
12. Hope, Mich.
13. Washington, Mo.
14. (tie) Gettysburg, Pa.
Luther, Iowa 
Messiah, Pa.
Others Receiving Votes: Claremont-MuddScripps, Calif; UC-San Diego; Simpson, Iowa
Division III X-Country Eastern Regionals 
Men:
1. Haverford 69
2. CARNEGIE MELLON 94
3. Glassboro State 106
1. Rich Bostwick (Glassboro) 25:54
2. Shamus McGuilligan (Haver.) 26:08
3. Tim Marion (Johns Hopkins) 26:23
4. Tim Fratus (Haverford) 26:33
5. KEITH STOPEN (CMU) 26:33
10. PAT NOLL (CMU) 26:52
16. GARY HARRISON (CMU) 27:03
20. PAUL CARNINE (CMU) 27:06
43. DAVE SUPP (CMU) 27:52
Women:
1. Meesiah 95
2. Gettysburg 112
3. Allegheny 134
4. Franklin & Marshall 151
11. CARNEGIE MELLON 286
CMU Finishes
17. Sue Johnson 20:32
46. Pat Fall 21:22
51. Kristin Burgard 21:27
95. Trish DiMarco 23:15
98. Lynn Truske 23:24
120. Molly Moritz 24:31
122. Rachel Nobel 24:53
Sports Fans!
Theres a whole lot more to 
the sports section this week!
Check out the special Bas
ketball Preview Pullout for all 
of the details on Carnegie 
Mellon mens and womens 
basketball.
Follow both teams all season 
long, right here in The Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

Cross-Country Runners
NCAA Nationals Bound
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Sports Editor
The mens cross-country liked participating 
in the NCAA National Championships, 
theyre going back. The men placed second in 
a twenty-plus team field, finishing behind only 
Haverford, at the NCAA Eastern Regionals in 
Allentown, earning a return trip to the Nation
als.
Three runners, Keith Stopen, Pat Noll, and 
Gary Harrison all placed in the top twenty of 
the field, earning them All-East kudos.
Cross-country Coach Gary Meckley was 
very pleased that the team is returning to the 
Nationals, but was disappointed that the Tar
tans did not win the East outright. Three of his 
top runners: Dave Supp, Len ONeal, and Paul 
Camine are all ailing. At full strength, we 
could have had six guys in the top twenty. Itll 
be the last chance we have to win the East, 
said Meckley.
Stopen and Noll have been leaders all season 
long and this race was no exception. I thought 
Pat Noll and Keith Stopen had exceptional 
races, remarked Meckley.
The big surprise came from Gary Harrison. 
The sophomore from Sewickley ran what was 
probably the best race of his two year career. 
It felt real good; I was surprised, was all he 
could say afterwards.
Also placing for the team were Paul Camine 
and David Supp. It seems like everyone came 
together and ran a great race at the same time 
thats tough to do, commented Harrison.
Its uncertain how the team will perform 
Saturday in the National Championships. 
Says Coach Meckley, In the worst case, 
Lenny ONeal will stay as sick as he is, Paul 
Gamine wont be able to race, and Dave Supp 
will be ill. In that case well finish 18th to 21 st. 
In the best case, they will all run a really good
continued on page 21
_ ^ photo by Andy GillespieAre you set for hoops season? Get ready with the special basketball section.
The Tartan
PORT
B z u>lIF z -w1F6 z h1nM.FFnKw>
Tartans MaulThe Bears
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Sports Editor 
The curtain fell for the final time at Tech 
Field on Saturday. Carnegie Mellon (7-2-1,4-
2 PAC, 2-0 UAA) closed out the season and 
Tech Field with their second blowout in as 
many weeks. They trounced University Ath
letic Association rival Washington University 
in St. Louis, 35-8.
The Bears came into Tech Field looking to 
end their season the same way as they began, 
with a win against a UAA opponent. After an 
opening game win against the University of 
Chicago Maroons, Washington dropped its 
next seven games.
The Tartans were trying merely to allow their 
seniors to finish with a win. Their 6-2-1 record 
would have attracted bowl scouts if Carnegie 
Mellon was a Division I school. Instead, this 
would be the final game of the T artans  season.
The Tartans showed they would win with 
their opening drive. Washingtons initial 
drive stalled at the 50. Following Eric Nyhuss 
poor 15 yard kick, the Carnegie Mellon of
fense got to work.
Senior captain Mike Hensel led the way, 
playing in the form that had earned him pre
season All-American honors both last and this 
year. On the Tartans first drive, the quarter
back from Mars, Pa. ran four times to lead 
Carnegie Mellon down the field. His five yard 
trip into the end zone gave the Tartans a 7-0 
lead. Hensel ended the game with 78 yards and 
two touchdowns on the ground while complet
ing 9 of 14 passes for 137 yards and 1 touch
down.
Washington hoped to answer back with their 
main weapon, senior tailback Tom Polacek. 
For Polacek it was a homecoming of sorts, the 
senior lettered at DuBois Area High School. 
Polacek would ramble for 141 yards on 22 
carries before the day was done. Polacek 
became the second person in three weeks to 
break the 1000 yard mark at Tech Field. Ear
lier, Washington & Jeffersons A.J. Pagano 
rushed for 166 yards to accomplish the same 
feat.
Polacek, however, could not do it alone. The
Bear offense consisted of a Polacek run or no 
yardage. Washington could do no better in its 
second possession, handing the ball back to 
Carnegie Mellon in less than a minute.
The Tartans continued on the ground, steamrolling their way down the field with eight 
consecutive runs. The offensive line put in 
another stellar performance. Theyre a spec
tacular offense line, and theyre going to get 
nothing but better, was the description Tartan 
Head Coach Rich Lackner used.
In fact, between Hensel, Chris Claflin, and 
Laszlo Buda, CMU put the ball in the air only 
20 of its 78 plays.
However, in that drive, Hensel did turn to the
skies. He found sophomore tight end Mike 
Beresford twice, the second toss put Carnegie 
Mellon ahead 14-0, and that would be all of the 
points the Tartans would need.
None could say that Polacek wouldnt try to 
bring the Bears back into the game. He found 
a hole in the left side of Carnegie Mellons 
defense, and carried the ball 43 yards down to 
the Tartan 13 before senior defensive back 
Robert DiGioia could bring him down. 
However, once Polacek gave up the ball, 
Washington floundered. Two runs and a pass 
netted two yards, and freshman kicker Jeff 
Chrusciel missed the 29 yard field goal, with 
eight and a half minutes left in the first half, the 
football game was already over.
Carnegie Mellon added one more score be
fore the half ended. Chris Haupt recovered a 
William Heard fumble on the Bear 33. Nine 
plays later, junior fullback Chris Hansen 
punched the ball into the end zone. Jim Kellys 
kick upped the score to 21-0.
The halftime stats showed the Tartans com
plete domination, no punts, no fumbles, and no 
penalties.
However, as the second half started, it looked 
like Carnegie Mellon was trying to find a way 
to let Washington back into the game. After 
Gale King fielded an onside kick, the Tartans 
were tagged for penalties on their first two 
plays, pushing them back to first and 31 on 
their own 45.
It took Carnegie Mellon four plays to make
Tartan Head Coach Rich Lackner with senior Mike Colucci after Saturdays game.
back those yards, but they did. They then went 
on to take a 28-0 lead with Hensels second 
touchdown run of the day.
However, the mauling of the Bears contin
ued. Lackner stayed with his seniors far longer 
than he needed to in their final game. He 
admitted, We tried to keep the seniors in. 
One of them, PHI Player of the Game Billy 
Heiser dove into the end zone for the final 
touchdown, early in the fourth quarter.
Washington finally got on the board late in 
the game. Junior quarterback Mike Rinne 
found tight end Dave Matthews for a 53 yard 
touchdown toss late in the game to prevent the 
first Tartan shutout since last seasons 14-0 
blanking of Thiel.
Tartan Tidbits: The win left Carnegie 
Mellon with a 76-41-2 record at Tech Field, 
48-7-1 since 1976, no sight has been an
nounced for next years games...The Tartans 
will meet Washington in next seasons opener 
in St. Louis; they will be without fourteen sen
iors: Chris Claflin, Mike Colucci, William 
Cramer, Robert DiGioia, Chris Haupt, Wil
liam Heiser, Mike Hensel, Tim Kelly, BiL 
Kerr, Rick LaValle, Joe Mancuso, Frank 
Meehan, Bryan Roessler, and Mike 
Ross...This wasnt the first time CMU had 
played Washington; the Bears beat the Tartans 
in 1970and 1971...Bryan Roessler was named 
a recipient of a National Football Foundation 
and Hall of Fame Scholar-Athlete Award.

---------------------------------------------------

D
The Tartan
IVERSION
ENTERTAINMENT  COMICS  CALENDAR  CLASSIFIEDS
IINSIDE
RECORDS.................Page D2
Balancing Act sounds like a 60s folk rock
band with an 80s face lift
JOEBOB....................PageD3
A Special Double Shot of Joe Bob for all
you Drive-In fans
Larger Audiences Finally Catch up With Squeeze
By DAN WEIR
Special to Diversions 
This coming Monday, The Syria Mosque 
will host Englands Squeeze in a joint produc
tion by CMUs Activities Board, the Pitt Pro
gram Council and local promoters, 
DiCeasare-Engler. The band is touring on 
their current album, Babylon and On , an 
expertly-crafted record by which critics are 
measuring Squeezes return from the dead.
In 1982, Squeeze played to a capacity crowd 
in Madison Square Garden. Shortly thereafter 
the bands songwriters, Chris Difford and 
Glen Tilbrook, announced the bands break
up. A farewell tour followed and then there 
- was silence. Difford and Tilbrook set to work 
on other projects to the dismay of the other 
players. Drummer Gilson Lavis, who had been 
with Difford and Tilbrook since Squeezes 
conception, retreated with his blossoming 
alcoholism to drive a London taxi. But Lavis 
dependency was only one worm in the apple. 
To that point, Squeeze had endured rigors that 
would have killed lesser bands years earlier.
Previously, disputes over promotions led to a 
long court battle with manager, Miles 
Copeland. Then keyboardist extraordinaire, 
Jools Holland, split for a solo career. Holland 
began a parade of keyboardists through the 
band that left fans confused. Says Tilbrook, 
... wed had one too many changes... The 
whole internal structure of the band was fall
ing apart [Rolling Stone - Iss. 514] . And by 
the 1981 release of Sweets From a Stranger, 
dissension with other members had Difford 
and Tilbrook aching for autonomy.
In 1984, Difford and Tilbrook issued a self
titled album which, like their previous efforts, 
was critically acclaimed and largely ignored. 
In 85, Tilbrook called on the embittered Lavis 
to aid him in a London charity concert That 
meeting led to a Squeeze reunion later that 
year with the album Cosi fan Tutti Frutti. 
Loyalists were delighted with the return of the 
magical Jools Holland and the sober, healthy 
Gilson Lavis though critics found that album 
overwrought. Today, even Difford dismisses
continued on page D4
Squeeze Memebers: Top Row(L-R): Kieth Wilkinson, Gilson Davis, Jools Holland; 
Bottom Row (L-R): Glenn Tilbrook, Chris Difford, Andy Metcalfe
5e4R ueAcSr BUPPURaSts 1ea%3 wrURS
By JENNIFER HOLMES
Special to Diversions
With a new lineup and a new sound, John 
Cougar Mellencamp captivated the audience 
in the Civic Arena Thursday night and proved 
^ that his material gets better with each new 
album.
Taking the stage twenty five minutes late, the 
band began playing the opening strains of the 
new single Paper in Fire while Mellencamp 
remained standing in the dark. Then he 
stepped out wearing black jeans, black boots, 
and a black jacket, and sporting shoulder 
length wavy hair. What do you think, guys? Is 
my hair too long? Mellencamp quipped.
Mellencamps songs all tell stories of the 
average American; they are tributes to the 
working class. Mellencamp took to the stage 
with this attitudehe was just an average 
American. He was willing to share the spot
light with the drummer or the guitar players or 
the backup singers. He made an effort to shake 
hands with people in the front row.
% He seemed genuinely touched when the 
audience cheered so loud that he had to wait
before he could speak. During Minutes to 
Memories, Mellencamp began to sing the 
wrong verse. Instead of trying to cover it up he 
just told the crowd that he got so into listening 
to the guitar that he lost his place. By this point, 
Mellencamp had the audience completely 
transfixed. He could have forgotten a whole 
song and the crowd would have gotten over it.
Mellencamp tended to chant the words to his 
songs. He acted the part of a storyteller backed 
by music. Some of the melody of the songs 
could have been lost because of this, but every 
time it seemed that Mellencamps voice would 
dissolve into a monotone, he would reach a 
key phrase of a favorite line, his voice would 
become shockingly strong and the melody 
would be lifted up again.
J ust a little ditty about two American kids 
in Pittsburgh. When Mellencamp ended 
Jack and Diane this way it caused thunder
ous crowd approval. Mellencamp went further 
to say that looking back on the Scarecrow tour 
of two years ago, Pittsburgh was one of the 
best shows. This set the crowd up to try for a 
repeat performance.
After a twenty minute break, Mellencamp 
brought the crowd to its feet during the second 
half. In Crumbling Down, Mellencamp 
sang the line and I know how to dance. The 
two backup singers pranced to the front of the 
stage and proceeded to prove to the audience 
that yes, they too knew how to dance.
At the end of the concert, Mellencamp stated 
that if you had been to one of his shows before, 
you knew that this was where he and the band 
played a bunch of old songs. But they were 
faced with a problem today. One of the guys 
would say How about this song and another 
guy would go No, thats a raisin commercial. 
But we finally came up with someone who
wouldnt sell his songs. With this introduc
tion, Mellencamp launched into Bob Dylans 
song Like a Rolling Stone.
The lights were brought up for the last song 
to leave no doubt in the audiences mind that 
this was the last song of the night.
With the crowd on its feet, Mellencamp 
ended with the second release from Lonesome 
Jubilee.
Mellencamp is discovering a new state of 
social consciousness. He is not yet on the level 
of bands such as U2, but as exhibited by his 
participation in Farm Aid and a new Christmas 
album for charity, Mellencamp has come a 
long way from his rock anthems of the past
WQED Holiday Shows
IUSE nd FEUUP R FAgrrUP YgPP
By MANNY THEINER
Special to Diversions
Where can you dance to the pulsating beat of 
solid steel and writhe to the crunch of skull1 pounding drum machines? Why, at the Ameri
can Legion in Squirrel Hill, of course. If youre 
sticking around this Thanksgiving weekend, 
the cool thing to do is to go check out the 
industrial music show there on Sunday, No
vember 29.
Three groups from Toronto are featured on 
the bill. The headlining group is Varoshi 
Fame, one of the many current proponents of 
i the industrial culture, a movement started over 
ten years ago by legends Throbbing Gristle 
and Cabaret Voltaire. The husband and wife 
team of Jon Christian and Deborah Forbes are 
augmented by the supportive drumming of 
Gary Keller, combining insistent military and 
savage tribal rhythms with the poetry of urban 
decay.
Throbbing bass and drum machines are the 
i. trademark of Kitten With A Whip, who invite
comparisons to Big Black, though generally in 
a more danceable vein. Bryan Ruryk appears 
as the one-man show called Deadlines, creat
ing layers of guitar noisewall with only effects 
and his bare hands. Also performing is local 
group Special Ed, one of the most original rock 
groups to come out of an otherwise bland 
Burgh, throwin down with their Minutemen
like sound.
Until the day of the show, brave men and 
women can get acquainted with the sounds of 
these groups on WRCT. Currently getting 
airplay are the cassettes Tear Down the Mill by 
Varoshi Fame and Eros! Butcher! by Kitten 
With A Whip. Of course, they also still have 
Special Eds eponymous debut album, which 
occupied the #1 spot for a month last year. So 
dont just sit back there in your easy chair. 
Make like a Third World nation and industri
alize!
The American Legion is located at 5857 
Forbes Ave. behind Horizon Financial. The 
show begins at 8 pm.
By MICHAEL ROSE
Assistant Diversions Editor 
The holiday season brings many things to 
Pittsburgh, among them the nip of winter in the 
air, the smell of roasting chestnuts, the roman
tic snowy nights with brandy snifters in front 
of a roaring fire...and for the rest of us, some 
really terrific public television on WQED.
Steve Biko Documentary 
Coming up on Saturday, November 14, at 4 
pm, will be a documentary on the production 
of the long-awaited Richard Attenborough 
film Cry Freedom, about the life and death of 
South African activist Steve Biko. The one 
hour Black Horizons Special entitled Cry 
Freedom: The Inside Story includes an inter
view with University of Pittsburgh Professor 
Dennis Brutus. The film itself will be nation
ally released on November 20.
A Silent Giant 
On Wednesday, November 18, at 9 pm, 
WQED will air the first two parts of a threepart miniseries on movie comic genius Buster 
Keaton. This profile marks the premiere of the 
American Masters program on WQED. Kea
ton, who died in 1966, was one of the legends 
of silent film comedy. The miniseries ranges 
from his childhood in a travelling medicine 
show through his rise to stardom and chron
icles his life in the waning of the silent film era. 
The miniseries is narrated by film director 
Lindsay Anderson.
A Look At Sculpture
For sculpture fans, WQED is airing Chillida, 
a one-hour portrait of Basque sculptor Edu
ardo Chillida that grants viewers access to 
this master sculptors works and to the lively 
spirit that shapes them. The program, on 
Sunday, November 22 at 5 pm, splits its focus 
between the outer environs of the rugged 
Basque country in northern Spain and the 
inner forces driving the artist. A must-see for 
fanciers of modem art.
Jazz in 32-Track Digital
On Thanksgiving Eve (November 25) at 10 
pm the Newport Jazz '87 program will air on 
WQED and will be simulcast in stereo over 
WDUQ-FM, 90.5 FM. The program will fea
ture the seven-man Crusaders jazz band, along 
with singer Nancy Wilson, with an extra spe
cial series of performers in a tribute to the 
saxophone; pop sax player Kenny G, accom
plished session man and solo performer Mi
chael Brecker, and the classic jazz and rock 
sax of Branford Marsalis, of the Sting band. 
The one-hour show incorporates a 32-track 
digital soundtrack, a quality of sound rarely 
found on broadcast TV. If youre in the Pitts
burgh area on the 25th, dont miss this show.
WQED, this holiday season, is making every 
effort to live up to their slogan TV Worth 
Watching. With this offering of quality pro
gramming during November, they seem to be 
doing a good job of it.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2The TartanNovember 17,1987
An Album to Play Until the Vinyl Wears Out
By DAN BIDWA
Diversions Record Critic
Doctorss Mob
Sophomore Slump 
Not that there arent enough REM clones 
around, but Doctors Mob isnt, quite. They 
play too fast (and their lyrics are usually under
standable). However, they lack REMs songs 
that stick in your ears and play in your head 
forever, and thats the main problem with this 
album.
Record Reviews
The album starts off on a loud note with Its 
Up to You, which begins with a fairly raw 
guitar grind and speeds up from there. Now, 
dont get the idea that this is hardcore or thrash
- it's not - but there are similarities. The songs 
do move along at a fairly decent clip (well, 
most of them), but not that fast - a speedy rock 
beat, lets call it. Stuff like Pat Blashill 
(which starts off with the intro to Golden 
Earring's Radar Love and then loses all 
resemblance immediately) zooms along, 
flinging guitar strings hither and yon, but 
that's the exception, not the rule, as are slower 
songs like Poison (which is boring) and 
C2E (which isnt).
The band also throws enough flavoring 
touches into their basic guitars-full-ahead 
music, like cowpunk on Let Me Try (and 
spattered all over the second side, for that 
matter), to keep it from getting boring. How
ever, the songs just lack that bit of verve that 
would make them memorable. Its hard to 
describe, and obviously even harder to create, 
but its easy to tell if its there or not, and it isnt 
here. The songs are all good, and some of them 
(like Its Up to You and C2E) are really
good, but they dont have it, and thats what 
keeps Doctors Mob off of REMs level. This 
is a good album, solid throughout, but it isnt 
going to bring Doctors Mob many new fans, 
and it wont sell, which is a pity. Its worth 
owning, but as filler, not meat.
The Balancing Act
Three Squares and a Roof
If Doctorss Mob didnt have it, The Balanc
ing Act has it. A bunch of it. Oodles of it. And 
they dont sound like REM, not even a little bit 
(well, they play guitars, but so does Sonic 
Youth, and nobody accuses them of sounding 
like REM). In fact, they dont sound much like 
any one band, which makes comparisons a bit 
difficult (not to mention long). So well try a 
different tact: they sound like a group of late 
Sixties folkies dumped squarely into Tower 
Records popular music section.
No? How about: they sound like a bunch of 
kids who realized that guitars dont have to go 
crunch and squeal and grind to sound good 
(hell, they dont even have to be electrified), 
but who havent been able to escape the energy 
of a good riff of either? Or how about a bunch 
of guys who realized that they didnt want to 
sound like everyone else, and who had enough 
imagination to accomplish this within the 
normal limitations set upon pop groups (oh, 
yes, they are most definitely a pop group, but 
thats okay, cause theyre good at it in the same 
way that Crowded House is good at it)? So, got 
all that? (Told you it would be long.)
Simply enough (yeah, right), The Balancing 
Act is a mostly acoustic (they use electric 
guitars, but they sound like electric guitars and 
not trains or power grinders or Boston) band 
that has an equal hand on catchy tunes and 
great lyrics and smooth harmonies (thats 
three hands, if anyones counting, but this is an 
unusual band, so some oddities are expected). 
They write pop tunes that would outshine just
about anything on Top 40 radio these days (U2 
included, so there).
They are going to be a hit. No, really. It might 
take a few more albums (this is their second), 
but they are on their way. And remember, you 
heard it here first. Songs like The Ballad of 
Art Snyder (... she lived as if she had nine 
lives, and just used up her eighth...) and 
Three Cards are too good to languish in 
obscurity. Buy this album for yourself, buy it 
for your roommate, buy it for your family 
(Christmas is coming, you know). Play it until
the vinyl wears out, and go buy another one so 
you can keep listening. Recommend it to 
everyone, even people you dont know. (If we 
all work together, we can put some real music 
back on the majority of the airwaves.)
If you like Crowded House or Paul Simon (in 
any incarnation) or maybe even Billy Joel (old j 
Billy Joel, please; if you like new Billy Joel, 
forget it - you obviously have no taste any
way), or if you just arent musically stagnated, 
you should like this album. A necessary album 
for all collections.
Rose Cottages wE ugEW 64USErU
By JAVIER GRILLO-MARXUACH
Diversions Staffwriter
The City Theatre Company, a professional 
resident theatre company at the University Of 
Pittsburgh, will present the new play Rose 
Cottages as the second presentation of its 
1987-88 season.
The play, which was written by Bill 
Bozzone, was first seen last spring as part of 
the companys Tuesday Night Theatre Series, 
where Dennis Kennedy, the companys liter
ary manager recognized its potential few the 
companys mainstage season. The show tells 
the story of a woman who, deserted by her 
family, is taken in by an old man and a teenage 
runaway. Rose Cottages is a very funny 
play, said Kennedy,with many insights 
about family life. In fact it sort of redefines 
what a family is.
The cast of six consists of several Pittsburgh 
area veterans as well as a few new faces. 
Heading the cast are Don Marshall reprising 
the role of Rose, which he essayed in the 
original production, and Barbara Russell as 
Jessie, the woman he takes in. Marshall has 
appeared in several Kuntu Repertory Theatre 
productions, and Russell is best known few her
appearance in the show Forbidden Pittsburgh 
as the latter half of the comedy team Brockett 
and Barbara. Making his debut at the City 
Theatre Company is Grant Robinson, a senior 
at Shadyside Academy, who plays the role of 
Lydell, the young runaway who finds himself 
with Rose and Jessie.
Rounding out the cast are Mike Jones, Rob 
Koch and Kelly Greene. The latter portray <| 
Jessies son and daughter-in-law. Both were 
last seen in the City Theatres production of 
Glengarry Glen Ross. Jones, a theatre major at 
Point Park College, completes the cast in the 
role of Ricky Knoll.
Handling the directorial duties in the show is 
Gordon McDougall. McDougall is a visiting 
professor at the University of Pittsburgh in the 
theatre arts department His last area produc- 1 
tion was the Three Rivers Shakespeare Festi
val production of Richard III.
Rose Cottages will run from November 18 
through December 20, Wednesdays through 
Saturdays at 8:00 pm and Sundays at 2:00 pm 
and 7:00. Performances are at the City Theatre 
at the comw of Bouquett and Sennott streets in 
Oakland. For more information the theatre 
box office can be reached at 624-PLAY.
John KozeluhComedy
SRT FeRc !
e
<
a>7
a>
to
</>
(/)dgj V!X a
T<
fi)
*<

"O7
urn

---------------------------------------------------

November 17,1987The TartanPage D3
a
3
The Sicilian: Like Watching Grass Grow
This gal named Althea Thrum, whos the 
editor of the Grapevine Weekly Antique 
Gazette, which gives out free classifieds to 
anybody that wants to sell something, 
BANNED ME last week on the basis of 
having too much junk. She said I needed to 
go on out to Grand Prairie and start rentin a 
booth in the flea market if I was plannin to 
be offering 28,000 items a week for sale, 
and I told her it was all PERSONAL items 
from my shed, but she said uh-uh, she was 
jerkin my ads cause I was a professional 
ABUS IN MY PRIVILEGES as a Grapevine 
Weekly Antique Gazette reader.
And so you know what I told her?
Nyah nyah nyah.: Joe Bob Goes : to the Drive-In
Thats all I could think of at the time.
Anyhow, one advantage of being a worldfamous nationally syndicated drive-in movie 
critic is you can abuse your privileges as a 
journalist by asking people to send you in 
money. So the following are the ads that 
WOULD OF been printed in the GWAG 
this week, except for me being discriminated 
against.
Mans Seiko Quartz 100 Series Watch! 
Like new! $4.50.
MULE RACKS for LW or SW pickup, 
plus wagon with rubber tires rigged for two 
mules, so you can go out on the federal 
highways on Sunday afternoons and clog up 
the traffic and act like a pioneer idiot along 
with all the other 5,000 pioneer idiots who 
are cloggin up traffic around Lake Texoma 
every Sunday afternoon. $150.
CHAIN LINK FENCE! 145 feet. 
Slightly bent $2.
CHAIN LINK FENCE! 390 feet. $1.
INTERNATIONAL TD-9 MR 
MUSCLE BULLDOZER! Tree-knocker
and cage included, ready to knock stuff 
down. $2,700.
Marman 30-30 Limited Edition gold 
trigger with scope; almost new Winchester 
30-30; new custom-made 243 with scope, 
sling carrying case; Stephens 20-gauge 
pump shotgun; Winchester 20-gauge; all 
must go this week. When you call, ask for 
all them guns Eddie had before they caught 
him.
Seven laying hens, eight show pigs, 
brass queen-size headboard tubing, wicker 
porch swing, 1977 GMC pickup, lakeview 
lot on Runaway Bay, one set of double 
concrete steps, rusty hospital bed with 
electric motor, perfect condition Jet-Ski, 12- 
inch speed floor buffer, three Siamese 
kittens, seven size 16 tall-man shirts, 
Weedeater, metal toolbox for wide-bed 
pickup, 8-foot artificial Christmas tree.
When you call, ask for Dave and say the 
following passwords; I aint a lawyer and I 
dont work for her.
Lawn chair owned by fat man. Will pay 
you $5 to remove.
Thats it for this week. As you can see,
Ive built up a lot of investments over the 
years. Just send them orders to Joe Bob 
Briggs, P.O. Box 33, Dallas, Texas 75221, 
and mark em I Wouldnt Pay 10 Bucks for 
a Wild Zebra, but Id Pay Five Bucks for 
Two of Em.
Speaking of junk left lying around that 
aint worth five bucks, The Sicilian came 
out last week, the one we all been waiting 
for, made by Michael Can I Spend an Extra 
Twenty Thou on the Crowd Scene? I 
PROMISE Ill be Careful, PLEASE 
PLEASE, I PROMISE Cimino. They gave 
Mike some more money, sent him over to 
Italy with something Mario Puzo wrote, and 
told him to try not to do too many closeups 
of horses nostrils and hairy legs. So he got 
Christopher Lambert, monkeyman star of 
Greystoke, and they made this movie
Christopher Lambert blows the heads off barbers - and why?
about murder and poor people and the Mafia 
and massacres and rich people and bandits 
and kidnapping and stuff that happened in 
Sicily in the 40s, and its basically like 
watchin grass grow for two hours. Actually, 
its like watchin orange wheat grow few two 
hours, cause Mike likes to take pretty 
pictures of lily ponds and Christopher 
Lambert blowing the heads off barbers for 
no apparent reason, except after a while you 
dont notice the difference between a lily 
pond and a guy gettin his head blown off, 
because of this ice-cream truck music he put 
in there. Anyhow, its the basic story of a 
guy who kills a cop and has to run up in the 
hills and hide and he decides he LIKES 
killin cops and also being LOVED by the 
people for killin so many cops and so the 
church and the Mafia try to kill him, but not
before falling in love with him first. Or 
something like that In other words, Michael 
Cimino Fu.
Two breasts, but they dont count, cause 
they belong to Barbara Sukowa, the ugliest 
actress alive. Thirty-nine bodies. A 44 on 
the Vomit Meter. Gratuitous Ku Klux Klan 
outfits. Poison Fu. Drink-in-face Fu. 
Machine gun Fu. Nailed-to-cross Fu. 
Cinematography Fu. Drive-In Academy 
Award nomination for Christopher Lambert, 
for doing an entire movie with only one 
expression on his face, and for saying, Im 
going to save the worldwhat else? and I 
must warn youI want to help the people 
buy land and Im NOT just a bandit and 
But what about the people over and over 
again.
One-half star. Joe Bob says...Nope.
5eU IevO3 -Ur3geR nd FAsrUtU ueArE MA
Dear Ronnie: Were tired of messin with 
the Supreme Court. Were tired of hearin 
about it. Were sick of readin about it. Were 
specially hacked off by the way they 
interrupted the goldum Aubum-Florida State 
game to talk about it. So listen to me. I dont 
wanna have to say this agin.
IF YOU CANT QUIT JACKING 
AROUND, ILL DO IT MYSELF.
Heres my qualification for the Supreme 
Court and how I stand on the issues. Joe Bob Goes j : to the Drive-In :
a*
MARIJUANA: I smoked approximately 
874 joints, but it was a long time ago and I 
dont do it no more. More important, IM 
NOT A WEENIE ABOUT IT. If the media 
asks me about it, all Im ever gonna say is,
I smoked the stuff. You want somebody 
that never stuck stuff in their mouth, vote for 
Jesus Christ.
MINORITIES: Were ALL minorities. 
Were all screwed up. Were all left out of 
stuff. We dont none of us have enough 
money. Weve all got bosses wed like to 
voodoo into a javelina hog. So Ill treat 
everbody just exactly the same, like the jerk 
losers we are. I just dont like the ones that 
WHINE about it all the time.
WOMENS RIGHTS: As soon as they 
make up their mind, they should get 
whatever they want 
ABORTION: Tell these Jimmy Swaggart 
people that if theyre so all-fired goldum 
certain about EXACTLY what God wants, 
then start out by showing us a few of the
commandments where theyre supposed to 
go help these girls in trouble personally, 
face-to-face, with cash and time and conver
sation, and respect for what the girls feelin 
inside, and without gettin credit for it, and 
stop talkin so much and writing pamphlets 
and going on TV and making picket signs 
and screaming like they think they ARE 
God and then stickin the girls in antiabortion Nazi holding pens. Actually, what I 
support is RETROACTIVE abortions for 
these particular people.
RUSSIA: Stop sendin ballet dancers in 
their underwear over here.
SEX: Homosexuals have the right to do 
any disgusting thing they want as long as we 
dont have to jump in.
CAPITAL PUNISHMENT: Murderers 
should be forced to watch Family Affair 
over and over and over again for the rest of 
their life.
THE COSBY SHOW: Nuke it.
Thank you very much for your considera
tion.
Speaking of anti-drug campaigns, Death 
Wish 4 pretty much sums up the national 
policy on cocaine:
Just say Kaplooey.
Charles Bronson runs the Just Say Kaplooey public-relations campaign, which 
involved gettin all the names of the drug 
dealers, pushers and Mister Bigs in the 
greater El Lay area, trackin em down, and 
air-conditioning their gizzards.
Unfortunately, all the motivation for Big 
Chuck to sweep scum off the street got 
killed off in Death Wishes NumeroUno, 
Two-o and Three-o. His wife got killed in 
One, his daughter AND his maid in Two, his
best friend from the war and his girlfriend in 
Three. So what can the street punks do to 
him now?
They can give some poison cocaine to a 
poor helpless little girl he knows who goes 
out on an innocent date one night and  
whopshe gets Len-Biased to death.
Chuck is not happy about this.
Chuck goes to the arcade where the drug 
deal came down and he blows the goon-face 
drug dealer away and watches him land on 
top of the electrical bumper-car ride gettin 
his hiney fried into something that looks like 
a cheese burrito.
Next thing you know, our favorite mildmannered architect is hittin the streets again, 
equipped only with a conscience and a 
stovepipe shoulder-mount anti-tank rocketlauncher. Remember the gun he had in 
Death Wish 3, the one they used to kill 
elephants in Africa, the one thats illegal in 
86 countries of the world?
This ones bigger.
No breasts. 119 dead bodies. Two stomach 
stabbings. Booby-trapped Napa Valley wine 
bottle. Twenty-story hood tossing. Explod
ing limo. Exploding Toronado (one-half star 
deducted). Exploding restaurant Exploding 
fish factory. Spread-eagle machine-gunned 
screaming dying slumping people (too many 
to count). Gratuitous corpses in morgue. 
Gratuitous roller skating. Gratuitous Kay 
Lenz. Bumper Car Fu. Drive-In Academy 
Award nominations for John P. Ryan, the 
mystery man that hires Big Chuck to blow 
away the drug empire, for saying, How 
long do we let them destroy children until 
we say enough?; and Big Chuck, for 
saying, Its not your fault that Erica died 
its those damn drugs!! and right before 
he pulls the triggerHow many children 
have you killed with this stuff!
Three and a half stars.
Joe Bob says check it out
Charles Bronson shows his distaste for video games in DtathWish 4.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D4The TartanNovember 17,1987
Automobile Aardvarking In British 
Condom Ad at Pgh. Filmmakers
By JOHN GINSBURGDiversions Staffwriter
Commercials. You either love them or hate 
them. They are always on television, and some 
advertisers put an effort into them. Cannes Goods //, showing at the Fulton Theatre No
vember 18-25, offers some of the best com
mercials in the world in a compilation of 
runner-ups and prize-winners from the 1985 
Cannes Film Festival.
Here is an insight to how they do it else
where, which is a break from some of the 
really stupid commercials produced here in 
the United States.
However, two problems exist in this film. 
First, many of the commercials are in foreign 
languages, and it is not obvious what the 
commercial is about Some can be figured out 
by what is happening in the commercial, but in 
others, the action does not provide enough 
information for those less fluent than the aver
age European. Second, although the film is 
advertised entirely cm humor, quite a few of 
the clips are not funny. European humor may 
be different than American humor, but the
European yen for affecting the consumer falls 
short of the good American commercials.
It is interesting that the first prize winner for 
1985 was the Pepsi commercial in which the 
archaeology students from the future find a 
Coke bottle in an old house and the professor 
doesnt know what it is.
Some commercials are, indeed, impressive, 
even if overall the movie is quite bland. One 
commercial involves driving a VW GTI off of 
an aircraft carrier and having the car surface on 
top of a submarine.
Of course, one of the things that sets Euro
pean commercials apart is their openness with 
sex on television. Some of the commercials, 
such as a lingerie ad, have partial nudity. One 
condom commercial involves a car bouncing 
around with intriguing sounds coming from 
inside. The narrator says, When you want to 
keep your mind clear of everything else.
While some of the commercials in Cannes Goods II are worthy of compliment 105 min
utes is much too long for a film made up 
entirely of a word from our sponsor. A short 
feature may have been better.
Squeeze to Play the Mosque Monday
continued from page D1 
it as puffery.
Such is not the case with Babylon and On. 
The new album boasts the stripped down lyrics 
and arrangements that were endearing to early 
Squeeze fans - fans who long ago replaced 
their worn copies of Argy Bargy. The new 
single, Hourglass, is Squeezes biggest 
single to date and has helped Babylon and 
On crack the Top-40. The current tour has
included opening dates for David Bowie and 
the throngs that turn out to witness his Glass Spiders spectacle. Of the bands current dyna
mism Difford says, You can play the colleges 
until youre blue in the face... and theyre good 
fun, but I think the ultimate American con
quest is to play the stadiums. Then go back to 
the colleges [RS]."
Tickets for Squeeze are available at the 
Mosque Ticket Office.
CLOTHING MEN AND YOUNG MEN SINCE 1960
>eRTeR ESP%
Where you'll always find the latest 
collections from Girbaud, Edwin, Jimmy 'Z, 
Polo, Alexander Julian, and Gotcha.
5842 Forbes Avenue 
Squirrel Hill 
421-5710
Fox Chapel Plaza 
Freeport & Fox Chapel Roads
781-0811
%
* * I ^
^ X ?
QetlfoiM.Act'ToyetluA.at
IlFuY :112.KF
America's premier theme park in Williamsburg, Va. is conducting auditions for over 200 singers, dancers, musicians, variety artists, technicians, and supervisors. You could be part of the magic that truly makes Busch Gardens an entertainment "experience." So get your act together and 'shine' at our 1988 auditions.
Audition Dates:
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
Wednesday, November 18th 
1-5 p.m.
Point Park College 
Lawrence Hall 
Dance Studio #4
PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA
Sunday, December 6 
12-5 p.m.
Walnut Street 
Theatre 
9th and Walnut 
Streets
<APOINT
An Affirmative Acton/Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F/H
JCC Concert Series
By LORI MAURERDiversions Staffwriter
Viktoria Mullova, a violinist and winner 
of Wieniawski, Sibelius and Tchaikovsky 
competitions, played a program of con
trasting interpretations in a concert spon
sored by the Jewish Community Center at 
the Morris Kaufmann auditorium on No
vember 11.
In the first half of the conceit, Mullova 
stoically performed pieces by Brahms and 
Schubert. Brahms Scherzo consists of a 
repetition of a haunting melody. Like most 
of his work, Brahms Scherzo leaves little 
room for impassioned interpretation. De
spite this fact, Mullovas performance still 
could have been more inspiring. Her cres
cendos and tempo changes seemed too 
predictable and the piece dragged due to 
her apparent lack of enthusiasm.
Mullovas performance of Schuberts 
Fantasy in C major suffered from much the 
same difficulties as Brahms Scherzo. 
Schuberts piece consists of seven move
ments which succeed each other without 
pause. The Fantasy in C major requires the 
utmost technical preparation and Mullova 
was more than competent in this respect 
However, she was too detached from her 
performance. Mullova moderated excesses
in the Fantasy by not letting the crescendos 
flow freely and by not really conveying the 
lyrical nature of the first movement of the 
piece.
Mullova countered the rigidity of her 
performance in the first half of the conceit 
with ho1 ardent interpretations of the two 
pieces in the second half of the program. 
These pieces were Ravels Sonata for Vio
lin and Piano and Saint-Sans Introduc
tion and Rondo Capriccioso.
Ravels Sonata for Violin and Piano is a 
unique piece in which Ravel adapts the 
style of the numerous jazz artists in Paris in 
the 1920s. Ravel accomplishes this by the 
discord existing between die violin and the 
piano in his composition. Mullova seemed 
to favor this piece over the first two and 
brought across a more effective interpreta
tion. She performed this piece with emo
tion rather than with the cold-hearted tech
nicality of the Brahms and Schubert pieces.
The program concluded with SaintSans Introduction and Rondo Capricci
oso. Mullovas interpretation surmounted 
the handicap that Saint-Sans disdained 
any emotional extravagance in his work. 
She presented an interpretation that was 
almost chilling in its fervor and earned the 
enthusiastic approval of the audience.
6YF *..8 K 2Y__fN
Thursday, November 19
Charlottes Web
This film recounts the beloved childrens book of the same name which describes the 
attempts of Charlotte, the spider, to save her friend Wilbur, the pig, from being butchered. 
Despite the delightful and endearing story line of the book, the film is marred by vapid 
musical numbers and below par animation.
Voices: Debbie Reynolds, Paul Lynde and Henry Gibson.
Showtimes: 6,8,10
Friday, November 20
Blind Date
This Blake Edwards comedy, starring Bruce Willis (of Moonlighting fame) and Kim 
Basinger (of 9 1/2 Weeks), describes the predicament of a business executive who is set 
up with a blind date for an important dinner with only one warning, Make sure she doesnt 
drjnk. Needless to say, the business executive does not heed the warning and the night 
results in a sometimes funny array of strange events and a confrontation with the blind 
dates ex (hilariously played by Night Court's John Larroquette). Kim Basingers 
Southern accent is more than annoying but Bruce Willis is great as the exasperated 
business executive.
Director: Blake Edwards
Stars: Bruce Willis, Kim Basinger, John Larroquette
Showtimes: 6,8,10,12
Saturday, November 21
The Secret of My Success
Michael J. Fox is featured in this comedy which opened to mixed reviews last summer. 
Fox plays a newly graduated college student entering the working world as a mail clerk 
in his uncles company. By using his innate abilities in finance, Fox emerges in the 
company by playing the dual role of a mail clerk and a business executive without his 
uncles knowledge. Eventually, Fox triumphantly rises to the top of the corporate ladder 
and the film ends in a predictable climax.
Stars: Michael J. Fox 
Showtimes: 6,8,10,12
Sunday, November 22
The Breakfast Club
The Breakfast Club, written and directed by John Hughes, is a portrayal of five 
stereotypical high school students: the hoodlum (Judd Nelson), the jock (Emilio Estevez), 
the nerd (Anthony Michael Hall), the popular snob (Molly Ringwald) and the unpopular, 
unstable recluse (Ally Sheedy). Through their mutual predicament of detention one 
Saturday morning, these five students learn that despite their differences, they are all alike 
and share the same fears and frustrations. The film succeeds because of amazing 
performances from all five of the main characters and because of Hughes realistic 
dialogue. The main weakness of the film is its ending which fails to answer the question: 
What will happen when the five students see each other in school on Monday? 
Director: John Hughes 
Stars: The Brat Pack 
Showtimes: 6,8,10,12 
By LORI MAURER

---------------------------------------------------

THE STOCK MARKET... IT CRASHEPf OUR. BLUE CHIP STOCKS CRUMBCEP /... ALN6 WITH MY Hopes TO BUY A NEW BOAT TH/S \ ,
JMMTartm o -j>
fT ms Pit JUST Pi HORRIBLB NIGHTMARC, mSNT fT 7 OF O 'COURSeiTWAS. 
nSf eiSwn J^MT 9F 5>j(W/T/tf MILK T /A Y
M/60P,irseemo ^to mu
m 9Co
UbHT ON. 
OKAY ?4- 20 a.m. is no me
FOR HONESTY.
ms Been siaTT wem, 
hihr me s^ oSnT me POST-MU; STREET- u , CRASHT ReALmes.
NOW..FOR INSTANCe.HOW MlbHT THIS BIT OF NEWS AFFECT OUR PLANS TO BUY A N6W BOAT TH/5 ^W- SUMMER ?
MY OOP. M'Re bom Wt 
sw iSwT s^ seme o^h M me M^aT FueL. - ^^9EFFICIENT 260 he ZXM350 MAOS IN THAT^^HBABY,. <fi----
s, I ^^START 1 OVER
AS OF OCT JSr,OUR BROKeR SAYS OUR NET WORTH IS ABOUT SIX POLLARS.
TO H6CK U/ITH OUR #73*00 LOSS ON we STOCK MARKET/ OUR
hTJsplTis 
i^s niSMyp. dg
VES, WE MAY BE A Lime SHORT IN UQUIP ASSeTS. PUT I WILL NOT HUN A PEFICIT IN ONE AREA -
7%\* u&< j% <, 
iSawSahrrr we'Re Ke- PAi/fliNE? me BmHROm, ANPI WILL BUY THAT W-FOOT MIAMI Vice'. speePBOAT/'
Vi, we hSJJTh me iSs ' * i comi BmpI TWO STALE I "ZfNOeKS*/
w;/'7 -
FOUNPdJhaoMT w iSwT -%\*U N%\W 9*RN j%RAjgr UE C\*U v WALPHCtM
AT VMeS UK6this we UKe W SIT AROUNP ANP FANTAStte ABOUT THe ~ ULTIMATE PREAM  HeAPune..
THURSPAYS Ape scow news PAYS HeRe AT THe INTERNATIONAL 
*BLOOM PICAYUNE
PURINOTRYSTwrmPRINCESSPI...
WHILESTOCKMARKETFALLS...POWN
'/JirHO/viYfevefflL HVNPR5P HHTH5 To 60, /r$ 6&MRPT N0CKAtiptm: um H&S
JACKSON'S FALTERIN&/ ROBERTSON SEEN RUNNlNb TWO POMS AH6AP OF PUKAKIS IN PUBOQOE / ''
'BUSH IS AHEAP BY THREE POINTS... POLE BACK BY TWO /60RE UP FOUR / *
me MOPERN POLITICAL REPORTER PAUSeS W REFLECT ON THE exHAusnve [i,'- P6PTH OF HIS y POLITICALANALYS/S />% \
6R&TT SCOTT ' RUN A CORRECTION BELOW THET1PE SCH6PULES X ON PAbEkr-f *
REMEMBFR AU- YES, OUR SeNSAWNAL, JUNIOR PANIC - CAUSINO INTERN STVRieS ABOUT THe MILO/'' 6REAT CHIU?- C-1 \ STEALINGri ' v eripemic v
Qu ? TH6RET NeveR
R&MYg MQNt!
,  ; . :-.rf;vv.  '  > '   "'yI>nnB unlK6 IW IUr%UIrUSE4UT Funded by Student Dormitory Council

---------------------------------------------------

Overload By Bob Jenkins
___________
m mm mm m

---------------------------------------------------

MHMM Mil

---------------------------------------------------

-is:..................... .- (pmMm S 1 11 : Ip 11 - : -:
1USTl
AUV Not, fi*:* -n> WHeRe we 606R6h.
'7^4/ Stccn4 -%i^e n a >f.__" Tfrthh " Fltiwi na * * ~'Tta- 33UTEtr rP1St1*e U.
r<\
BAUM LVD.C' OF
/MCDL
P0 THEY idea, Hct WAS I To * BATH-? *37* THAT W6#HIPPIE OF A SACjseD BATH- ? ^KioAx osTOB RITUAL?tt)rtv Kicrf iPAieSTESS FteSoHJt)ST Go OP AWt> Ht//cOoOUD *- -
Nh
^ ^ODST ^BRILLIANT SPACE BOL
MY i tmdn'tN OL1VBR! KNOW I HAD ----- 
uyxX-D Be lKNG- A SATH Mtff THERE?XL\
V \V
HC1L_yS-foNB TABLETt ^An S..& b. irc.TKMtigrE ir, oa^bPk )n?dr "THef
Is1111111CCarngI ioM1l Uvnrt'( 2, /THe MA&eor THey? /'ly ENTRFM t^BBeDOacie, ^ v ' ''as foR6ep 6eN6Am-le tempi* of Tne '6ATHS T08 oM TRe 7m 
MPwyoF THe ceueecATioiJ
E ? *
Mooot ygiyNbN7
Notse 9SDy
<F6w
Iu4 a1 gY
DEAD MM bONT FART, DU1mill |H W KPN WttRI... ffft NOT 60WI6 
71 llflVE *N< CHEflP 5X OR. ALCOHOL 
, < "r7 1
qy
ME'IM AMotA oto* ,fc*/W POPUIMITY
Mpn^'
'C)V'CeEwrgrbP(Ed
- 1 TWtr "*****-* -ii I
SveAd\
IW 2eAc >StsUr3%g
you c^n't- w/n,
 7n too
"F"
'feah onJ 
wfL ^ iJl

---------------------------------------------------

UV]
J
\
MMWM8MMI
H0WZ.A60UT HA MDI ^ OVFR 
WH/VT EVER VA 6GT TO 
OL' ERNIE i 
COME ONi K)OU) 
JHM VA GOT ?
m
i&gGF HZ:B2
5o} hooj A^e (mV
EcI kpIgt dUhndF SafG
A6-N1E.V/, Oo\w<t "Totwr ?
Uv_s FlMff.
8 Netv sTR"
I'M A
U\TTUtPlSSD/
r
J_T5 BAt) ENv(ri THAI yo^>
HAV "fat <^|_L T, -MS 
rAe A-9T so^eoAJc 065?^t; 
$U>T V/JH/VT &ALLY Oi?erot>5 
Me That Voo don't v^
CrE^JDER pJ t &
PtCCO^hJj] ^ \ X
L ' fJ wB
H
V
collegiate crossword
TT
T7
?r
nrrITTTIT
30
vr
4Trr
5T
fTTFT
WANT
TOUCH
... .! I I te* . :... .-' ' : , ''.' . :.^ :- - 'V1 '  ' 
' 1  H ; |iil
...
3VC0^tr^7fUm 1
5T
Edward Julius Collegiate CW8706
____________ . s> a:' , 4' %
' .... : .,:.V... ...i|WM|P||f________I ,By Craig SchlechterIW 6et BA3gSP da
................................................
to IPX's
Oh, ?-CAU.Yy ftcrhJ'c'^
UWs ,ou8Aw2SeR1 Vo^.
?
NewY -TTi-L 
V0^ what's
60THE(l,>,t
WE !!)
\
.
O.lC. 1T. 
Huj a tour
I^/IDOM^A?u
aAA*

u_7
mms
i 3>^/v /. .v;i
I'. F *
ACROSS
1 Penman 7 Responded15 Ingenious16 Fetch17 Rodeo activity18 Pertaining to debating19 Played a part20 Part of NCO21 N.H. state (abbr.)22 Aspects24 Cleopatra's killer25 Middle East gulf26 Record of brain activity27 Lively dance29 Tired30 Elasticity33 Depot (abbr.)36 Writer Bernard --37 Mr. Koppel38 Hypothetical substance40 Irritates41 Move slowly43 Playing marble46 "-- la Douce47 Extinct New Zealand bird49 Capital of Montana
51 Signifying maiden name52 Humor magazine53 Enemies of clothing54 Captain --57 U.S. railroad58 Rare-earth element59 Do a floor job60 Ones who try61 Certain storekeeper
DOWN
1 Skin Injury2 Hackneyed expression3 Indication of a sale Item (2 wds.)4 Harvard vines5 Fender --(accident)6 Energy unit7 Dog sound, in comics8 Sign gases9 Barber shop item10 Songbird11 German number12 Hospital physician13 Trial material14 Poured, as wine
23 Inn for travelers24 Former French province25 Imitate28 Lamprey and electric29 Mr. Caesar31 Old song, "-- aSeesaw"32 Box --33 Rain lightly34 "Walden" author, and family35 Foods36 Certain sports cars39 Ending for pay42 Garment worker43 System of weights and measures44 Instruction from Jack LaLanne45 Sun bather47 Mme. Curie48 Aroma, British style50 Game of chance52 Indian servant55 Suffix: geographical area56 Hindu sacred words57 South American country (abbr.)
TH FUWP SKULL'S TW
of sTaa^a ^MefTJr iT
REVEALS m (POMIMTIOH ^wTa 
U COMPUTERS CONTROUmO
, ns mxHm Lon. ^
K
...rne CM ART 
COMPUTERS...
AUQGHT... 
M PUT 
Ml SS V>HV%WGOM THis>
gr111
...SCHEMING...
(WAIT A5C...<
^Q'I02 - INFLUENCE 
OF ro/LBT PAPER
ON WESTER^ socery.^
mmo *0 p!5nEM6s^m
Z7~l0[?p.
TASOGRy, T TH flVKXIrJE ISN'Tt 
8*>K0*,AO1 CANTLTWU HJ.
...IP CARPS..


---------------------------------------------------

b /- , r- / ^ >"_'*  ' ^ ' \ / ^?''
y^m0:K- sm^::'i$^ -ii^xi : :
.
:WitP : 
, i ,i*- V ^ i^:?; ^ ., % - 4^1 
quintessential outlaw journalist
YAREUr 64ets3eR
*/  > / " 'i / ;* M OOOTh e ,/, ^''^^smauasssse^^.
*js  <..'. 4#.
. Jfe  #//  -.. :.   v>-.r;v'  .v-v '  ; .:
Tuesday, November 17 
8 pm Skibo Ballroom 
funded by activities fee
Hi
o

---------------------------------------------------

Page DIOThe TartanNovember 17,1987
Illustration in Florence and Dead Deer on Campus
By EDIE LOCKE
Special to Diversions 
Opening tonight at the Forbes Gallery is the 
senior show of Mia White, Sarah Fay and 
Mark Shafer. White and Fay will exhibit illus
trations and Shafer will show drawings, slides 
and photographs which serve as background 
information for a large installation piece.
Illustration in Florence 
White is an illustration major who spent her 
junior year in Florence, Italy where she stud
ied with an Italian designer. She will be show
ing much of her Florentine work, including 
large books of illustration which she calls 
visual journals of her year. White usually 
works in watercolor but will also include a few 
recent pieces where she uses acrylics. When 
discussing her year abroad, White remarked 
that her professor was old school and very 
strict on the perception of things. He empha
sized clean, straightforward work and his in
struction is just starting to sink in.
White described her color as subjective 
and explains that her interest lies in exploring 
different environments, whether she is dealing 
with Pittsburgh or Florence. Illustration, for 
her, is a visual exploration of different con
cepts and placesan expression of reality. 
Fine Art vs. Commercial 
Illustration, is very hard for me because I 
want to be an visual abstractionist, stated 
White. Yet, at the same time, she enjoys com
mercial arts advertising aspects, visual com
munications and creating concepts for publi
cation.
I could be a painter. I would love to be a 
painter. But I dont desire to express abstract 
ideas While she loves creating, White 
wants to express what I can see, things I can 
relate to.
Man vs. the Natural World 
Mark Shafer, officially a drawing and paint
ing major, works mostly with mixed media to 
get the effects he needs to express his theme of 
humans versus the natural world. He ex
plained that he has no real interest in using 
synthetic materials [paint]. They dont pertain 
to what Im saying. White explained that we 
think of ourselves as separate from nature 
but when we die we go right back to it Man is 
constantly trying to separate himself from 
what he really is, whether he encases himself 
in a coffin or builds sewer systems and garbage 
dumps to carry away his output. These recep
tacles for mans waste, in turn, are destroying 
the environment which he works so hard to 
distance himself from. Shafer believes that 
mans actions are detrimental and we 
shouldnt destroy everything. Yet, he also 
considers the concept of fate and whether 
mans actions are all part of a purpose - part 
of the destiny of natural processes.
Dead Deer and Education 
Nevertheless, mans progress interferes 
with natures cycle. Shafer was arrested for 
burying a deer last year and appeared in the 
Crime and Incident Report as a special. He 
explained that the police were worried about 
diseases the animal might have and did not 
want it in close proximity to the city. Animals 
die and decompose in nature all the time, 
Shafer explained.
White began work on this theme last year 
when drawings of wood and paper acted as a 
turning point. He saw how things actually 
happen. His influences include the Hudson 
River painters and he looks at other environ
mental sculptors such as Christo, Smithson 
and Beuys to get a better grip on how to carry 
out his projects. Shafer regards his major as 
not just an art education but an educat jft 
toward life.
The installation will consist of a funeral pyre, 
fog, a sod floor, an aquarium and the artist 
himself. The piece will evolve over the weeklong period, whether the changes are natural or 
made by Shafer. There will also be two food 
tables: traditional vs. semi-natural....
Sarah Fay was unavailable for comment. The 
show opens tonight at 7:30 pm.
*1u6 6nh 6.K h>w>F6
Oct. 24 to Nov. 6,1987
Artist - Record - Label
1) Opal - Happy Nightmare Baby - SST
2) UnknownmiX - Mix 3 - Recommended (UK)
3) Joy Division - Peel Sessions - Strange Fruit(UK
4) Roger Miller - The Big Industry - Ace Of Hearts
5) Tom Waits - Frank's Wild Years - Island
6) Big Black - Songs About Fucking - Touch N G
7) Dead Can Dance - In the Realm of a Dying Sun - 4AD(UK)
8) Government Issue - You - Giant
9) Ramones - Halfway To Sanity - Sire
10) Kilgore Trout - Quality Control EP - Hits & Corruption
This Week
6HgUp? KeCp fE4 SE yNN SRT m7N st 
*UTp? KeCp fmE4 SE xNN st 
5lKn1 1.h Om / >M. F w 21.wB 
vW uSPTUreR TU PS ISraS
Coming Boon
2Uap E4 SRT mE4 
6Y. Bw2F
For more information call: 268-2407
STUDIO THEATRE THIS WEEK is brought to you by the Department of Drama
5 snow covers the 
English countryside, the 
 great dining halls of 
medieval castles are filled with the 
sights, sounds and aromas of 
preparation for the Madrigal Feast. 
Yuletide in 16th century is a busy, 
happy occasion with celebrants 
gathering holly, ivy and pine to 
complete the tables, musicians 
rehearsing and cooks preparing the 
traditional boar's head dinner, 
complete with the festive wassail 
bowl and flaming plum pudding.
But the food is not all that fills 
the evening with the Joy that it 
brings. The Jester and jugglers 
practice their trades. The magicians 
prepare their newest feats of magi
cal skill. The dancers perfect their 
routines. The singers choose their 
festive songs.
All of this ceremony and more 
will be brought to Carnegie Mellon 
as the fourth annual Madrigal Feast 
is held in the Great Dining Hall of 
Skibo Castle. The Department of 
Student Activities, Activities Board 
and the Department of Music invite 
you to join the Lords and Ladies, 
Renaissance musicians and Madri
gal singers, dancers, jugglers and 
magicians for this festive occasion 
on Friday, December 4. Dress in 
your best 16th century or 20th 
century finery and join us for a 
Renaissance Feast served in the 
candlelit Skibo Ballroom. Presiding 
over the evening will be the Lord of 
Misrule, Ye Jester.
Friday, December 4, 19 8
Reception ... 600 pm, Skibo Lobby! Wherrett Room
Dinner ... 7ffl pm. Skibo Ballroom
Entertainment will be provided by the Cameron Choir and Friends... Ye guests are permuted to wear traditional clothe.
Dinner Menu:
Sparkling Apple CiderHearty Winter SaladRoast Top Round of Beef with MadieraWine SauceBroccoli and Cauliflower FlorettesPar siied Red PotatoesSour dough and Pumpemickle Breadwith whipped butterCherries JubileeChoice of Beverage
Tickets:
Purchase at the Skibo Information Desk Tuesday, November 10-Wednesday. December 2Monday through Friday. 9 am-5 pm
S9M) Non CM U Students X6.00CMU Students S5W Children under 10 years
0\t^

---------------------------------------------------

November 17,1987The TartanPage Dll
Announcements
Richard M. Cyert will have open office hours 
for students between 2:30 pm and 5 pm, in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Friday, December
4. Students who wish to meet with the presi
dent should telephone his secretary at 268- 
2200 to set up an appointment.
Student Ombudsman will have open office 
hours for students to discuss concerns and help 
resolve problems. Days and times available 
for appointments are at the Skibo Information 
desk @x2107 between 9 am- 5 pm. 
Interested in Communications? Like to 
hear yourself talk? Broadcasting positions are 
available for WRCT News. Call x2883 for 
more information.
George Cruikshank, Caricaturist and Il
lustrator. Collection of Thomas J. Michalak. 
Exhibit in Fine Book Room, Hunt Library, 4th 
floor. 1:30 - 4:30, through January 15.
A site-specific installation by Larry Cressman, created to use the entire gallery space. 
Hewlett Gallery, CFA, 1st floor. Through 
December 10. Gallery Hours are: 11 am - 4 
pm, Tuesday through Saturday; 1 pm - 4 pm, 
Sunday.
Mouton Rothchild Paintings for the Labels.
An exhibition of the artwork by such great 
contemporary artists as Chagall, Klee and 
Braque that was commissioned by the Baron 
Philippe de Rothchild in the years following 
World War II for the Mouton Rothchild labels 
of his Chateau Mouton. Hunt Institute, 5th 
floor; through December 18.
Tishan Hsu. Paintings and sculpture. Car
negie Mellon University Art Gallery, 407 
South Craig St. November 22 through De
cember 28. Gallery Hours are 10 am - 5 pm, 
Tuesday through Friday; 11 am - 5 pm, Satur
day; 1 pm - 4 pm, Sunday.
Roman Catholic Oratory. Celebrate mass 
on campus at 7 pm, Saturday night and 10:30 
am, Sunday morning, in the GSIA Audito
rium. Daily Mass is celebrated at 12:30 pm, 
Monday through Friday, in CMs Chapel 
(Skibo Rm. 39). For more information call 
( 1-3181.
Swiss Poster Art: 1970 - 86. Selections of 
Swiss posters from Carnegie Mellon 
Universitys collection. Carnegie Mellon 
University Art Gallery, 407 South Craig St. 
November 22 through December 28.Gallery 
Hours are 10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday through 
Friday; 11 am - 5 pm, Saturday; 1 pm - 4 pm, 
Sunday.
Lockwood Hoehl Photography. Associated 
Artists of Pittsburgh, Fifth and Shady Ave
nues. Exhibit continues through December 
23. Gallery Hours are 10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday 
through Saturday; 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
Is There Anyone Else Like Me On Campus? 
If you are experiencing attractions toward 
members of the same sex, the answer is yes. 
Join sympathetic peers for informal discus
sions of issues that are important to you. For 
details, contact the CMU Gay and Lesbian 
Alliance via campus mail c/o Skibo Informa
tion Desk or via computer mail to ga0y@tb. 
All responses are confidential.
Buhl Science Center:
Laserium. 8 pm and 9:15 pm, Thursday 
through Sunday; and 3 pm, Saturday. For 
current concerts call 321-5554.
The Great Miniature Railroad and Village. 
Through February 28. 2 pm, Monday through 
Wednesday; 2 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Thursday and 
Friday; 11 am, 2 pm, 3 pm, 4 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, 
Saturday; and 1:15 pm, 2 pm, 4 pm, 5 pm, 7 
pm, Sunday.
Stars of Autumn. Through November 24. 2 
pm, Monday through Wednesday; 2 pm, 5 pm, 
7 pm, Thursday and Friday; 11 am, 2 pm, 3 pm, 
4 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Saturday; and 1:15 pm, 2 
pm, 4 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Sunday.
Sounds Sensational. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
The Right Moves. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Batter Up. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5
do you write
about
people you see?
dossier is currently accepting submissions
Submissions should be sent to dossierc/o The Tartan 
Room 103 
Skibo
Or dropped off at The Tartan 
Room 50 
Skibo
For more information contact Michele Osherow
681 8705
ay*tft >9^g
dossier
I I T E R A TUR E % D E S I G N
pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 pm, 
Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Bio Corner. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 pm, 
Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Image Imagination. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Foucault Pendulum. Permanent exhibit at 1
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Observatory. Friday evenings, weather 
permitting.
The Pied Piper of Hamelin. Hundreds of 
rats! Thousands of rats! Millions of rats 
invade the town of Hamelin. A mysterious 
stranger promises to lure the rats away - but at 
a price the citizens refuse to pay. 11 am and 
2:30 pm, Saturdays; 2:30 pm, Sundays; 
through December 20.
Snooky LumpsSorry Ive been such a Putz.
Please forgive me. Life will 
never be the same without you! 
-Bernie C.
Spirit Buggy 
Total Domination 
Genesis... Sting...
Elan...Quantum Leap...
Fear the Unknown
Spirit Push Team
Happy 20th Birthday Lynne!!!
Christopher RobinBravo! Encore! Encore!
(I still give backrubs!) 
your friend,
-Winnie the Pooh
Hail Math Studies, Our gods 
Profs. Kolodner and Schaffer, Our 
saints, Profs. Owen and Shreve, and 
Our missionary Russ Walker.
P,S,K,D,RJ,D,S,T & F
Since most of CMU is at PHI 
Thursday nights, how about a 
campus phone there?
Pat -
the only true woman on campus.
Never erase a chalkboard side-toside...
(sat I with baited breath, awaiting 
the highly detailed and cosmically 
scientific explanation) ...cause your 
butt shakes.
By the way GT, everybody doesnt 
want it.
Yes, Joel, these messages really are 
free.
Sweet PeaThanx for helping me study 
'"bio.
- me
Hey, howre they hanging?
TF, GN, GG, GT, TR, KB, IL, PS, 
DL, We gotta play the game soon!
Victoria,
It was nice to talk to you after 
such a long time. I would hate to 
think I failed in friendship.
Manute,
Room party Friday! Clean you 
shit up.
Allison Payne,
Will you go out with me?
-The Frog Man
Snow Football- Pledges eat snow! 
36-6.
BIG party (you know where) before 
SQUEEZE!!
Executive Board of Phreds - 
I promise to start working on 
my tab soon!
-S
ToM.-
Blond guys are more fun.
It was a fight and they lost, again.
Hey everyone! Get up and do the 
hustle!
Watch where you put that pool cue! 
And that crutch!
Death,
Are you scamming at MG again? 
-Tas, Rack, Bobitz
Laura S.,
You looked great. Enjoy Thanks
giving.
SF,
I hate it when the coach makes 
me do extra laps after practice. 
-KAS
China Blue,
I like the package from Burma. 
-Mr. Fizzix
CALVARY EPISCOPAL 
CHURCH
Shady at Walnut
Campus Ministries: The Rev. G. Kelly 
Marshall 
661-0120 
Sunday Services:
8:00 and 12:15; Holy Eucharist 
10:30; Choral Liturgy 
Easy Access froiri Oakland via Fifth Avenue 
Buses
*pm HHMpmmotm 
eODMVffWMDtour* mm

---------------------------------------------------

Page D12The TartanNovember 17,1987
Events
f 6AU3TSW
Movies
Woman of the Year, starring Katherine 
Hepburn and Spencer Tracy. Hepburn and 
Tracy are teamed up for the first time in this 
delightful film about a political commentator 
and a sports reporter. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Department of Metallurgical Engineering 
and Material Science Seminar. Professor 
Howard K. Bimbaum, University of Illinois @ 
Urbana-Campaign, speaks on Interaction 
and Behavior of Hydrogen at Grain Bounda
ries and Surfaces at 3 pm in WeH 7500. 
Refreshments served in WeH 2325 following 
the Seminar.
Special Events
French Table. The Modem Languages De
partment sponsors a French Language table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
La Nuit De Varennes, starring Marcello 
Mastroianni and Hanna Schygulla. Fascinat
ing film about a journalist who pursues Louis
XVI and Marie Antoinette as they flee the 
effects of the French Revolution of 1791. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:45 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Cannes Goods II. This is a diverse collection 
of award-winning commercials selected from 
the 1985 Cannes International Advertising 
Film Festival. Filmmakers at the Fulton, 101 
Sixth St., Downtown. For showing time, call 
681-5449. Admission $3.
Lectures
Department of Mechanical Engineering 
Graduate Seminar. Dr. W. J. ODonnell, 
0Donnell & Associated, Inc., speaks on 
Elevated Temperature Design Criteria at 
3:30 pm in SH 322. Refreshments are served 
at 3 pm in SH 125.
Special Events
Educational Action on Latin America
group meeting. Skibo Rm. 112 at 7 pm. All are 
welcome. For more information call Peter at 
x7651.
Spanish Table. The Modem Language De
partment sponsors a Spanish Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
f| 64Ar3TSW
Movies
Some Came Running, starring Frank Sinatra, 
Dean Martin and Shirley MacLaine. Excellent 
character study of the disillusionment of a 
young man who returns from the Army to find 
his hometown isnt quite what he expected. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:50 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Cannes Goods II. This is a diverse collection 
of award-winning commercials selected from 
the 1985 Cannes International Advertising 
Film Festival. Filmmakers at the Fulton, 101 
Sixth St., Downtown. For showing time, call 
681-5449. Admission $3.
Charlottes Web, sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm and 10 pm. Admission 
$1.
Lectures
Department of Psychology Colloquim. Dr.
Richard Held, MIT, speaks on The Develop
ment of Binocular Vision and Hyperacuity in 
Human Infants at 4 pm in BH 135. Coffee is 
served before lecture in the Psychology 
Lounge.
Special Events
German Table. The Modem Languages 
Department sponsors a German Language 
Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining 
hall.
_N MrgTSW
^..............................................................-.................................-.......^
Movies
Prick up Your Ears, starring Gary Oldman 
and Alfred Molina. Oldman gives a fine 
performance as the playwright Joe Orton, 
whose relationship with Kenneth Halliwell 
endned tragically and destroyed Ortons 
promising artistic career. Pittsburgh Play
house at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Cannes Goods II. This is a diverse collection 
of award-winning commercials selected from 
the 1985 Cannes International Advertising 
Film Festival. Filmmakers at the Fulton, 101 
Sixth St., Downtown. For showing time, call 
681 -5449. Admission $3.
Blind Date, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 
at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. Admission 
$1.
Lectures
Department of Art Visiting Artist Lecture.
Artist Tishan Hsu speaks about his work at 7 
pm in the Adamson Wing, BH.
Sports
Womens Basketball. Carnegie Mellon 
Tournament with Case Western Reserve, 
Carlow and Brandeis.
_f FSEArTSW
^.......................... ..............................................................................u
Movies
Full Metal Jacket, starring Lee Ermey, Mat
thew Modine and Vincent DOnofrio. Fright
ening account of the Vietnam war from the 
perspective of boot camp and then later in 
actual battle at Hue during the Tet Offensive of 
1968. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 
pm and 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Cannes Goods II. This is a diverse collection 
of award-winning commercials selected from 
the 1985 Cannes International Advertising 
Film Festival. Filmmakers at the Fulton, 101
Nov. 17 - 24 at the Tartan Grill
CRUISE SHIPS
Now Hiring. M/F Summer & Career Op
portunities (Will Train). Excellent pay phis 
world travel Hawaii, Bahama, Caribbean, 
etc. CALL NOW206-736-0775 Ext. K3*R
Classifieds
p 5ev3&*SREUT 
Earn $hundreds weekly$ in your spare time. 
United Services of America is looking for 
home-workers to perform mail services. Incen
tive programs available. For information send 
large self-addressed stamped envelope to 
U.S.A., 24307 Magic Mtn. Pkwy,. Suite #306, 
Valencia, CA 91355.
STUDENT EMPLOYMENT OFFICE
40 jobs still available to all CMU students, both 
work-study and non work-study eligible. Cleri
cal, Programming, Word Processing. Pick up a 
Job Directory in the Financial Aid Office, 
Warner hall. Job Assistance interviews avail
able. Call x2068.
PART TIMEHOME MAILING PRO
GRAM! Excellent income! Details, send selfaddressed, stamped envelope. WEST, Box 
5877, Hillside, NJ 07205.
TYPISTSHundreds weekly at home! Write: 
P.O. Box 17, Clark, NJ 07066.
= Housing '
Bloomfield Area 3-room apartment, newly 
modeled, walking distance to Carnegie Mellon, 
close to transportation and shopping. 687-5858 
(days).
Five Minutes to Campus Two Bedroom Fur
nished APTM. Nice and clean $380 plus utili
ties. Parking available for rent. Also from Janu
ary 1 Furnished rooms, share kitchen and bath
room. All utilities included from $160 monthly. 
Call 655-1872.
Shadyside Apt. Available Immediately or Next 
Semester through 5/31/88. 2 BR, or 3RMS/ 
Common Kit. 683-7601.
===== Misc =====
NEED A CAR? New or used, w/ or w/o acces
sories. Call Peggy Eshelman, 578-8444.
Parties...Parties...Parties
We have everything for your party at PapermartOne stop party shopping. Halloween, X-mas, 
New Years, and much more. Over 10,000 
square feet of party. Party favors, decorations, 
and a wide variety of novelties. Close to cam
pus- Morewood Avenue at Baum. 681-8900.
RESEARCH PAPERS. 15,278 Available! 
Catalog $2.00. Research, 11322 Idaho, 
#206XT, Los Angeles 90025. Toll Free (800) 
351-0222, Ext. 33. Visa?MC or COD.
SAINT ELMOS BOOKS & MUSIC
Before going to the nearest mall to buy the same 
book that everyone is giving this holiday sea
sontry us. we have distinctive alternative 
reading and listening for special people. Also 
we have New Age holiday music. Just over the 
Birmingham Bridge at 2214 E. Carson St., 10 
minutse from campus. Open til 9 nightly. 431- 
9100. Expect the unusual.
ALEXS FLOWERS 687-4128
HELIUM BALLONS $2.35 ROSES $8.00 A 
DOZEN (Long Stem $18.00) Bouquets $4.25 
and up. We also carry cards and gifts. 192 N. 
Craig St. DELIVERY 687-4128
p/p//ppppppp FUrCgaU3 
Typing/writing Servicesterm papers, dis
sertations, thesis, resumes. Spelling and gram
mar included. Lillian Mudgett - North Hills - 
486-8577.
MTS 24-hour Typing / Word Processing
(Specializes in last minute work). Same day 
resume service. Typewriter rental available 
short/long term leases. 371-3657.
pppp hUr3eRSP3 
St. Judes Novena: May the Sacred heart of 
Jesus be loved, adored, glorified, and preserved 
throughout the world now and forever. Oh 
Sacred heart of Jesus, pray for us. St. Jude, 
helper of the hopeless, pray for us. Say this 
prayer nine times a day, and on the eighteenth 
day, your wish will be granted. It has never been 
known to fail. Publication must be promised.
18 *UTRU3TSW
Movies
Sixth St., Downtown. For showing time, call 
681-5449. Admission $3.
The Secret of My Success, sponsored by SDC 
Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8:30 pm and 11 pm. 
Admission $ 1.
Sports
Womens Basketball. Carnegie Mellon 
Tournament with Case Western Reserve, 
Carlow and Brandeis. rMovies
The African Queen, starring Katharine Hepbum and Humphrey Bogart. Romance and 
adventure going down an African river during 
WWI. A fabulous classic. Pittsburgh Play
house at 7:30 pm and 9:30. Admission $2.95. 
Cannes Goods II. This is a diverse collection 
of award-winning commercials selected from 
the 1985 Cannes International Advertising 
Film Festival. Filmmakers at the Fulton, 1C" 
Sixth St., Downtown. For showing time, call 
681-5449. Admission $3.
The Breakfast Club, sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. 
Admission $1.
Lectures
Department of Art Visiting Artist Lectur
Ruedi Ruegg, Swiss graphic designer, speaks 
on The Roots of Swiss Poster Design at 2 pm 
at the Carnegie Mellon University Art Gallery, 
407 S. Craig St..
Gala Lecture. Dr. William Cohen, a local 
psychotherapist, speaks on Sex and Intimacy 
in the 1980s at 7:30 pm in Breed Hall, MM 
103.
_' BeRTSW
Smiiiii...........IIIIIIIIII....inn.................. imiii.. ......num............. .....mtntm.mJ
Movies
Moulin Rouge, starring Jose Ferrer. Welldone account of 19th century painter Toi 
louse-Lautrec. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Jean de Florette (Part I), starring Yves 
Montand, Gerard Depardieu and Ernestine 
Mazurowna. Fine adaptation of Marcel 
Pagnols novel, set in the mid-1920s in 
Provence, about a greedy peasant Cesar, a 
member of a once powerful family, who plots 
with his nephew Ugolin to take a piece of lan ! 
away from his innocent neighbor Jean. The 
results are shattering, as the two schemers are 
aided both by Fate and the forces of Nature. 
Winner of 1986 Grand Prize of the National 
Cinema Academy of France. Pittsburgh Play
house at 7 pm and 9:10 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Cannes Goods II. This is a diverse collection 
of award-winning commercials selected from 
the 1985 Cannes International Advertisin' | 
Film Festival. Filmmakers at the Fulton, 101 
Sixth St., Downtown. For showing time, call 
681-5449. Admission $3.
Lectures
Unified Theories of Cognition Lecture.
Professor Allen Newell, Carnegie Mellon, 
speaks on Memory, Learning and Skill, a f 
4:30 pm in DH 2210.
Special Events
Japanese Table. The Modem Language 
Department sponsors a Japanese Language 
Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining 
hall.

---------------------------------------------------

o

---------------------------------------------------

Mens Roster
Num.NamePos.Ht.Wt.CLHometown/H.S.
20/21Harvey Beckham*G6-3180SOManassas Va/ 
Stonewall Jackson
Gary Breauninger*G5-11175SOPittsburgh/Northgate
32/32Hart Coleman***C6-7198SRPittsburgh/Brashear
14/15Tom Franklin***G5-8155SRBrooklfield OH/ 
Brookfield
12/13Lewis JacksonG5-11155FRReston VA/Amherst
24/25Darryl Long*F6-3180JRColumbus OH/St. 
Charles Prep
54/54Charles LuckettF/C6-7200SOWoodbridge VA/ 
Woodbridge
52/52Daren Moffatt**F6-6220JRMontoursville PA/ 
Montoursville
John MorganG6-3185SOWashington DC/ 
Gonzaga
34/35Anthony RankinF6-5190SOCamp Springs MD/ 
Bishop McNamara
22/23David SikoraF6-4195JRWeirton WVA/Weir
44/45David SmithF/C6-7205SRN. Huntington PA/ 
Norwin
55/55Tim SnodgrassF6-5219SOCleveland/Lutheran
East
10/11Michael StewartG5-10155JRWilkinsburg PA/ 
Wilkinsburg
40/41Charles VaughtG6-1190SOYork PA/York 
Catholic
42/43Tim WalkerG6-1160SOSummerfield OH/ 
Shendoah
50/50 Marc Womack 
* stars denote varsity letters
F/G6-2180SOYsplianti MI/ 
Belleville
Womens Basketball 
Schedule
Nov. 20-21HCarnegie Mellon Tournament 
(Case Western Reserve, Carlow,
3-5 pm, 2-6 pm 
& Brandeis)
Nov. 24AJuniata College7:00 pm
Nov. 28AAllegheny College7:00 pm
Nov. 30ASt. Vincent College7:00 pm
Dec. 4ANew York University6:00 pm
Jan. 2-3HCarnegie Mellon Tournament 
(Trenton State & Heidelberg)
TBA
Jan. 6HGannon College6:00 pm
Jan. 9AUniversity of Chicago5:00 pm
Jan. 13AJohn Carroll University6:00 pm
Jan. 16AHiram College7:00 pm
Jan. 20HThiel College6:00 pm
Jan. 20HWashington University2:00 pm
Jan. 26ABethany College7:00 pm
Jan. 30AGrove City College1:30 pm
Feb. 1HMercyhurst College6:00 pm
Feb. 3HWashington & Jefferson College6:00 pm
Feb. 6HHiram College2:00 pm
Feb. 9HJohn Carroll University7:00 pm
Feb. 13HUniversity of Rochester12:00 pm
Feb. 17AThiel College6:00 pm
Feb. 20HGrove City College12:00 pm
Feb. 23HBethany College7:00 pm
Feb. 25AWashington & Jefferson College5:30 pm
Mens Basketball 
Schedule
Nov. 20-21..HCarnegie Mellon Tournament 7-9 pm, 4-8 pm 
(Emory, Brandeis, &Case Western Reserve)
Nov. 24HPoint Park College8:00 pm
Nov. 30HGettysburg College8:00 pm
Dec. 4ANew York University7:00 pm
Jan. 2-3AAllegheny Tournament7-9 pm
Jan. 9AUniversity of Chicago7:30 pm
Jan. 13AJohn Carroll University7:00 pm
Jan.16HHiram College2:00 pm
Jan. 20HThiel College8:00 pm
Jan. 23AWashington University7:30 pm
Jan. 27HBethany College8:00 pm
Jan. 30AGrove City College3:30 pm
Feb. 3HWashington & Jefferson College8:00 pm
Feb. 6AHiram College7:30 pm
Feb. 10HJohn Carroll University8:00 pm
Feb. 17AThiel College8:00 pm
Feb. 20HGrove City College2:00 pm
Feb. 23ABethany College8:00 pm
Feb. 25AWashington & Jefferson College8:00 pm
Womens Roster
# NameHometown/H.S.HLPos.Yr.
10-11 Donna SpicuzzaMt. Lebanon, PA 
Mt. Lebanon
57G/FSO
12-13 Allison CarrickN. Huntingdon, PA 
Norwin
52GFR
14-15 Erika SchranerLeMont, Switzerland 
EPFL
54GJR
22-21 Roseanna NeupauerNorthampton, PA 
Northampton
54GJR
24-25 Valerie KwiatkowskiBrentwood, PA 
Brentwood
57GSO
*30-31 LisaLightnerAltoona, PA 
Bishop Guilfoyle
57GJR
*32-33 Aimee ReberNorth Huntingdon, PA 
Norwin
5 10F/CJR
34-35 Lisa SchmidtBeaver, PA 
Center
5 10FFR
40-41 Julie SextonNeedham, MA 
Needham
58FFR
*42-43 Beth VirginBethel Park, PA 
Bethel Park
58FJR
44-45 Kara NarathWest Boxford, MA 
Masconomet
5*11*F/CFR
50-51 TriciaChorgo 
* denotes Captain
West Mifflin, PA 
West Mifflin
61CSO

---------------------------------------------------

November 17,1987The TartanPage B3
Looking Ahead
uePUtSR 3 64U 8UW
O
BY NEIL GREENBLUM
Tartan Contributing Editor
When Carnegie Mellon Head Coach Larry 
Anderson came up Forbes Avenue from Point 
Park in 1983, he wanted to build his Tartan 
team around a center who would eventually 
make an impact around the Presidents Ath
letic Conference.
The following year, Anderson successfully 
recruited 67", 180 lb. Hart Coleman. A raw 
student-athlete from nearby Brashear H.S., 
Anderson felt Coleman had the potential to 
eventually dominate the Presidents Athletic 
Conference (PAC), and to lead Carnegie 
Mellon to their first PAC championship since 
1977.
Were still waiting.
The 1987-88 Carnegie Mellon basketball 
season begins Friday as the Tartans host Uni
versity Athletic Association (UAA) oppo
nents Brandeis, Case Western Reserve and 
Emory in the first-ever Tipoff Tournament.
And without top-notch leadership from sen
ior captain Coleman, it may be the tipoff to a 
very long season for the Tartans.
Coleman was sixth in the PAC in scoring for 
the second straight season a year ago (15.5 
points per game) and second in the league in 
rebounding again, too (8.9 rebounds per 
game). He was only second on the Tartans in 
both categories, however, to now-graduated 
David Bart and Pete Cwalina, respectively.
Last year Long and Moffatt fought each 
other for playing time and neither made much 
of a lasting impact or clearly won a start in 
Coach Andersons lineup. If this pair can put 
it together, they have the tools to play with any 
forwards in the PAC.
Senior David Smith (67", 205) and junior 
David Sikora (63", 195) will be the first 
forwards off the bench for the Tartans. Smith, 
who also backs up Coleman at center, was a 
pleasant surprise a year ago. His numbers 
werent so great (3.4 ppg, 3.0 rpg), but the 
North Huntingdon native filled in nicely for 
Coleman when the starting big mans season 
was cut short by knee problems. He wont 
make many mistakes, and is a deceptively 
good outside shooter for a big man.
Twenty-one of Smiths 47 points came in the 
second to last game of the year against Be
thany, where he stepped in early in the first half 
to play the best ball of his Carnegie Mellon 
career. Such heroics may have to become 
more commonplace this season.
Weirton, W.V.s Sikora surprised folks, too. 
He averaged 3.9 points and 3 boards per con
test last season, and sparked the Tartans with 
his speed and aggressiveness in a very limited 
role.
Sophomores Chris Luckett (67", 200) and 
Tony Rankin (65", 190) will also see action 
up front after playing very little as rookies. 
Sophomore Tim Snodgrass (65", 219) didnt
David Sikora goes up for the shot.
At times over the past three years Coleman 
has been awesome. This year the second-team 
all-PAC choice needs to be make it more than 
occasional, and he needs to be more aggres
sive inside with Cwalinas departure.
Junior Darryl Long (64", 180) is Carnegie 
Mellons second best returning scorer. The 
Columbus, Ohio native averaged just 6.6 
points per game and 4.2 rebounds per game 
while splitting time at the forward position 
with junior Daren Moffatt, opposite Cwalina. 
Long, who was second on the squad in blocked 
shots and steals a year ago, is an excellent 
defensive player with very long arms. The 
junior is going to have to double his scoring 
output in order to make up for the loss of 
Cwalinas 14.3 tallies per contest.
At 66" and 220 lbs., Moffatt is the bulkiest 
Tartan. The forward from Montoursville 
matched Longs rebounding output, but man
aged only 5.2 points per game. Moffatt has a 
nice shooting touch from 10 feet and in, but he 
needs to show more confidence when hes 
holding the ball. The juniors rebounding 
should improve without Cwalina to compete 
with.
puuiu uy Auiuy vjmtayiccome out for the squad last year, but may also 
figure in Andersons plans.
The backcourt will sorely miss the departed 
Bart and Roger DeVries. Bart provided the 
kind of consistency that is difficult to replace, 
and DeVries was a legitimate outside shooting 
threat.
By default, senior Tom Franklin (58", 155) 
is the starting point guard. He has started quite 
a bit the three years hes been here because of 
his superior ball handling and defensive skills, 
but was benched frequently in 86-87 because 
of his inferior shooting skills. Franklin didnt 
like to shoot, and wasnt good at it, making 
only 30.6% of his 36 total shots (in 23 games). 
Anderson says the Brookfield, Ohio native has 
tremendously improved his outside shooting 
in the off-season, but this remains to be seen.
The other starting guard position is still a
toss-up between junior Michael Stewart
(5 10', 155) and sophomore Harvey Beckham
(63", 180). Stewart was out of school in 85-
86 and sat out again last year, after showing
some ability as a freshman starter. The Wilk
insburg native is fast, can handle the ball, and 
continued on page B4
photo by Andy Gillespie
Donna Spicuzza dribbles downcourt.Is Seven Enough?
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Sports Editor
Contradictions. The 1987-88 Lady Tartans 
are full of them.
Theyre a team that hasnt hit .500 in recent 
memory, yet they are considered legitamite 
contenders for the Presidents Athletic Con
ference title.
They have only seven players from last 
years 8-14 squad who Head Coach Gerri 
Seidl feels confident to play early in the sea
son, yet they will run a fast break offense, a 
controlled fast break offense.
The potential is there for their first ever PAC 
title, and much of that potential comes by the 
name of junior tri-captain Lisa Lightner. The 
58" guard from Altoona was named to the 
PAC All-Conference squad last season and led 
Carnegie Mellon with 15.9 points per game, 
third best in the conference, and slightly more 
than one fourth of the Lady Tartans total 
scoring output.
Lightner is learning a new role this season, in 
order to allow all four returning guards to see 
playing time she will move at times down to 
point guard from her accustomed wing guard 
role.
Lightner is the straw that stirs Carnegie 
Mellons drink, if the Lady Tartans are to 
travel far this year, she will have to have 
continue putting points in the basket.
Tri-captain Aimee Reber was second on the 
team last season in scoring, averaging just 
under twelve points per game. She also made 
her presence felt underneath the backboard, 
pulling down 7.9 rebounds per game.
The 511" junior from Norwin High will 
spend more time at forward than in previous 
years. Until late last season, Reber was the 
only experienced player on the squad taller 
than 58".
One thing she will have to work on will be to 
cut down on her fouls, Reber was disqualified 
from six of the 21 games she played. If Coach 
Seidl is unwilling to go to her new players 
early in the season, any time Reber spends on 
the bench due to foul trouble will force the 
Lady Tartans back into a three guard, two 
forward offense.
The emergence of sophomore Patricia 
Chorgo as a center will hopefully keep Reber 
at center. Chorgo spent the early part of the 
season learning the Lady Tartans system and 
did not see significant playing time last season 
until January. However, in the 19 games she 
did play in last season, she pulled down 140 
rebounds.
The third part of the front court is junior tri
captain Beth Virgin. The58" native of Bethel 
Park established herself as a force in the paint 
averaging just under eight rebounds per game. 
Virgin also had problems with fouls, being
ejected from four games last year.
Rounding out the returning players are three 
other members of the back court.
The first is junior Roseanna Neupauer. She 
was second to Lightner in assists, and had the 
best shooting percentage from the free throw 
line.
The remaining two returning plays are two 
sophomores. Donna Spicuzza and Val 
Kwiatkowski found themselves thrust into the 
starting lineup midway through the second 
half of the season.
The five newcomers consist of four fresh
man and a junior exchange student. Erika 
Schraner is a 54" guard here this year from 
Switzerland. She could play in the number 
two guard spot, but her playing time late in the 
year could be hurt by a desire by Coach Seidl 
to play freshman who have three more years at 
Carnegie Mellon.
Those freshmen are guard Allison Carrick, 
forward Kara Narath, forward Julie Sexton, 
and forward Lisa Schmidt.
Several things have changed from last year. 
With Chorgos move into the center slot, the 
Lady Tartans will be playing in a traditional 
two guard, two forward, one center instead of 
the three guard, two forward set of previous 
years. Her increased playing time should be 
able to increase the advantage Carnegie Mel
lon enjoyed rebounding last year.
Another change is the new controlled fast 
break the Lady Tartans plan on implementing. 
This will not be a traditional fast break by any 
means. In fact, defenses will probably be set 
when the ball is brought across the time line. 
Carnegie Mellon plans on working the ball 
quicker to the basket than in past years, instead 
of settling down into a half-court offense.
The quicker pace the Lady Tartans plan on 
playing will force them to play more on de
fense than they had in past years. The team 
was able to shave an average of five points per 
game off their opponents side of the score
board. The trend will have to continue this 
season, Carnegie Mellon was still outscored 
by its opponents last year by slightly over two 
points per game.
The Lady Tartans had hoped to increase the 
balance in their scoring last season when in 
fact, the opposite occured. Only Lightner and 
Reber averaged more than ten points per 
game, accounting for more than 44% of all of 
Carnegie Mellons offense by themselves. 
With Lightner seeing more time at point guard 
that may change.
In any case, the contradictions will be re
solved in four months. At this point, though no 
one knows what will be their outcome.

---------------------------------------------------

Page B4The TartanNovember 17,1987
64rUU 2SW3 REe E4U MAEArU
continued from page B3
Consistently Inconsistent ?
shoots well from the outside. Not having 
played in two years is Stewarts toughest 
obstacle.
Beckham can play a little, too. He got into 15 
games last year and averaged 2.2 points per 
contest on 47.8% field goal shooting. He also 
runs well but doesnt have Stewarts ballhandling ability.
Behind Franklin, Stewart and Beckham, the 
Tartans are experience-thin. Sophomore Gary 
Breauninger (511", 175) is out for the year 
with a knee injury. Keith Morgan (63", 185), 
a sophomore transfer from Boston University, 
needs to learn the system. Charles Vaught 
(6 1", 190) is a sophomore walk-on who used 
to play quarterback for the football Tartans in 
1985, and frosh Lewis Jackson (5 11", 155) is 
probably a year away.
Sophomore walk-ons Tim Walker (61", 
160) and Marc Womack (62\. 180) are also 
listed at guard for Carnegie Mellon.
The 1987-88 schedule is not a favorable one 
for the Tartans. Carnegie Mellon will play at 
both Chicago and NYU before opening the 
PAC schedule on the road against defending 
champ John Carroll. Chicago beat the Tartans 
at the NYU Christmas Tournament last sea
son, and NYU is ranked in the top 20 in 
Division III, as is another UAA opponent, 
Washington.
Anderson wants to run and gun a bit more 
than last year, in an effort to mask the Tartans
g KUUl uO3lSo Close, 
Yet So Far
By NEIL GREENBLUM
Tartan Contributing Editor
It's been said that in order to win, you have to 
beat all the bad guys and some of the good 
guys.
The 1986-87 Tartans had no trouble beating 
the President Athletic Conference's (PAC) 
three weakest teams, but they managed only a 
single victory in games against above-.500 
opponents.
Carnegie Mellon finished the season with 
two last-minute victories over Bethany and 
Washington & Jefferson and a 7-5 PAC 
ledger, 11-12 overall. The Tartans were in the 
thick of things until three losses in a four game, 
early-February stretch knocked them back 
into third place for the second straight year.
The 9-3 John Carroll Blue Streaks solidly 
beat the Tartans twice. Hiram, who finished a 
game behind Carnegie Mellon at 6-6, also 
notched two wins over CMU, one by just a 
bucket. Carnegie Mellon did beat 8-4 Grove 
City by 21 points at Skibo Gym January 24, but 
lost a 53-52 heartbreaker at College Gym on 
Valentines Day. One out of six wasnt 
enough.
The Tartans seemingly lived and died with 
senior point guard David Bart. The co
captains 16.3 points per game led the Tartans 
and were fourth best in the league. Bart also 
led the squad in assists (3.6 per game) and 
steals (1.8), and was in the top three in virtually 
every other category. He was the best allaround guard the Tartans had seen since Greg 
Gabriel.
But in Carnegie Mellons 73-67 loss Vo Chi
cago in the New York University Christmas 
tourney, Bart reinjured a broken bone in his 
left foot. The Tartans were 1-5 in his absence, 
including losses to the Blue Streaks and 
Hiram.
Senior forward Pete Cwalina and junior 
center Hart Coleman were a formidable duo up 
front for the 86-87 Tartans. Cwalina led the 
PAC in rebounding with 10.5 boards per conperennially weak outside shooting. Despite 
three of the top ten scorers, Carnegie Mellon 
was just fifth in the conference in team of
fense. Losing two of those top three isnt 
going to help.
The NCAAs new three-point weapon back
fired on the Tartans a year ago. With DeVries 
gone, itll be a wonder if the Tartans can make 
more than last seasons league-low 28 threepointers. Michael Stewart is the Tartans best 
home run bet.
On the other hand, the Tartans should remain 
solid defensively. Only John Carroll was 
stingier, and Anderson and third year Assis
tant Coach Bill Kinavey emphasize defense 
like theres no tomorrow. Look for Long to be 
the Tartans defensive leader.
Rebounding shouldnt be much of a problem 
either. Coleman gets several just because hes 
67" and has longer arms than Long, and 
Moffatt is a good positional player inside. 
Neither is as good as Cwalina was at pulling 
down the key offensive board. A few more 
offensive rebounds from Coleman will help 
his numbers.
Under Anderson, Carnegie Mellon has made 
improvement an annual habit. The Tartans 
finished just two games out of first in 86-87 
with three proven scorers. This year they have 
just one proven scorer.
The Tartans will be good, but will have a hard 
time improving on their third place finish 
unless Coleman and company can score. A lot.
photo by Andy Gillespie
Daren Moffatt goes over the top.
test, and Coleman finished right behind him 
(8.9 rpg). The junior co-captains 15.5 points 
per game were sixth best in the league, and 
Cwalina was 10th at 14.3 ppg. Cwalina was 
second in the conference in field goal percent
age (.520), while Coleman was fourth (.504).
Cwalina played like a man possessed the first 
half of the season, leading CMU in rebounding 
in 12 of their first 14 games. He seemed to tire 
in the second half, and when Coleman had to 
miss the final five games down the stretch 
because of his aching knees, Cwalinas own 
knee problems made him all but absent.
Coleman, a three-year starter, was once 
again mired in the inconsistency that has be
come his trademark. The Brashear H.S. alum 
was at times the best and most exciting big 
man in the league. His 3 blocked shots per 
game and countless slam dunks were tremen
dous crowd-pleasers. But when the game was 
on the line, Coleman was frequently an inno
cent bystander.
Sophomores Darryl Long (6.6 ppg, 4.2 rpg,
1.4 steals) and Daren Moffatt (5.2 ppg, 4.2 rpg) 
shared the other forward position last year. 
Both had their moments, and were above 
continued on page B5
By PERRY PIERCE
Tartan Staffwriter
The Lady Tartans entered the 1986-87 sea
son with high hopes to finish well over the .500 
mark. What began as a season with great 
expectation ended with lots of questions, as 
the Lady Tartans ended their season with a 8- 
14 overall mark, and 3-9 in Presidents Ath
letic Conference competition.
The season started on a very high note, as the 
Lady Tartans won their four of their first six 
contests. In that stretch, Carnegie Mellon won 
the Big Heart Tournament, which was proba
bly their highest point in 86-87. To win the 
tournament, the Lady Tartans powered past a 
much bigger and stronger Frostburg State 
team 61-47. Lisa Lightner led the Tartans in 
the Big Heart Tournament with game highs of 
20 and 16 points, while Beth Virgin garnered 
19 rebounds against Frostburg. We really 
made the game look easy, commented Tartan 
head coach Gerri Seidl, the win gave us hope 
that the rest of the season looked good.
The Lady Tartans then hit the skids, as Car
negie Mellon had apparently peaked too soon. 
Going into the winter break, the Lady Tartans 
were already breaking down, but a trip to San 
Diego for the Holiday Tournament rejuvinated a deflated team. Even though Car
negie Mellon lost both games, they played 
much better as a unit. A lot of our problems 
last year resulted when we stopped playing as 
a team, remarked Seidl. We were good 
against Rochester, and only lost by 6. We just 
tired out at the end. In that game Lisa Light
ner scored 24 points, a season high for the 
Tartans.
Second semester started the same way that 
the first one ended; with inconsistency. The 
Lady Tartans showed signs of breaking out, 
but just could not put all the pieces of the 
puzzle together at one time. The PAC season 
started against John Carroll, and the Lady 
Tartans lost the game 70-66. CMU turned 
around and beat the Hiram Terriers 84-77, but 
soon hit rock bottom. The on-again, off-again 
squad lost to Bethany 52-50, in what coach
By NATALIE HAWRYLUK
Tartan Staffwriter 
The Lady Wolverines of Grove City College 
were last years Presidential Athletic Confer
ence champions, with a conference record of 
12-0 and 17-3 overall. Returning players 
include sophomores Jackie Bell (Madison, 
Ohio - Madison), Patty Brain (Harmony, PA - 
Seneca Valley), and Kathy Hay (Grove City,
Seidl called the lowest point of 1986-87. We 
just stopped playing together, it was really 
awful.
Carnegie Mellon was not playing well, but it 
was not due to a lack of intensity. The team 
was not dead on their feet, just overagressive, 
remarked Seidl. Each person was trying too 
hard to play, rather than work together. Each 
person was trying to win the game on an 
individual basis, rather than winning as a team. 
The team was very good, but they just didnt 
know how to win.
Despite the negatives of last season, the Lady 
Tartans also had a lot of bright spots. Probably 
most prevelant of these plusses was Donna 
Spicuzza. Donna played very aggressive de
fense all year, and really impressed coach 
Seidl. I didnt expect to see that much out of 
Donna, but she played very well.
Carnegie Mellon also worked in some other 
very important people, such as Trish Chorgo. 
Chorgo, a sophomore from West Mifflin, 
worked her way into the starting center posi
tion. Chorgos role on the squad was very 
important, because it allowed Aimee Reber to 
move to her narural forward position. Trishs 
play was very helpful, recalled Seidl, and 
her getting hurt late in the year hurt us. 
Chorgo sustained an ankle injury against 
Hiram, and was lost to the team for two and a 
half weeks.
The Lady Tartans of 1986 were also very 
young, as they only graduated one player from 
the starting line-up. Losing Val Sooky to 
graduation will hurt the Tartans, but they have 
returned all of last years stars. Leading the 
way is a strong junior class headed by the likes 
of Lightner, Reber, Virgin, and Rosanna 
Neupauer. All five have played together foi 
two complete seasons now, and what may 
have been considered too much to expect from 
the Tartans last year, has kept the team in high 
gear. Last year was still a building year, 
commented Spicuzza. Virgin believed that the 
team definitely peaked too soon, but leamec 
what they needed to do to win in the coming 
season.
PA - Lakeview). Last seasons successes 
rested on the play of their defense which held 
opponents to a conference low, 49.3 points per 
game.
The team lost 5 letterwinners this year,
making inexperience the teams greatest
weakness. Grove Citys strength lies in the
height of its team - over half of the women are 
continued on page B5
photo by Andy GillespieDonna Spicuzza up against NYU.
>ee%gRc SE E4U hwu

---------------------------------------------------

November 17,1987The TartanPage B5
The PAC
"A Look at the Old Rivals
photo by Andy Gillespie
Hart Coleman doing what he does best
By NEAL A. LEVENE
Tartan Staffwriter 
After a disappointing third place finish in the 
PAC last season behind John Carroll Univer
sity and Grove City College, the mens basket
ball team is gearing up for another stab at the 
6^ PAC title. The team finished with a 7-5 in 
conference record last season. With the loss of 
three starters (David Bart and Roger DeVries 
in the backcourt and Pete Cwalina at guard) 
this season should be a challenge for the 
youngish Carnegie Mellon team.
The Tartans early season action will be 
dominated by out of conference match-ups 
and the teams first glimpse of their UAA 
( competitors. The Tartans will not meet a PAC 
team until January 13 when the men will travel 
to University Heights, Ohio to take on last 
years PAC champion John Carroll Blue 
Streaks. Looking at the Tartans competition: 
After losing five out their seven primary 
players last December, the John Carroll Blue 
Streaks under the leadership of Coach Tim 
Baab (career record 75-63) still managed to 
 pull out the PAC win finishing 9-3 (15-9 
overall). As the Blue Streaks prepare to shoot 
for their third consecutive PAC title this year, 
health and inexperience are the main questions 
in their minds.
The Streaks are returning ten of last years 
lettermen, among which only two were start
ers and only four saw much playing time. The
The PAC Women9s Outlook
continued from page B4
over 58". The Lady Wolverines are coached 
by two year coach Susan Roberts, a 1975 
graduate of Ohio University.
Hiram is returning 6 Ietterwinners, 3 of 
which are starters from last year. Tne Lady 
Terriers finished fourth in the PAC with a 5-7 
record and 10-11 overall. Hiram will miss two 
of its starters, Drummond and Gemmel, who 
collectively led the team in number of games 
played, field goal percentage, rebounding, and 
personal fouls last season. Hirams head 
coach is Howard Jenter, a 1985 graduate of 
Hiram College.
John Carroll lost a pair of three-year starters 
from last years second place 9-5 team (15-6 
overall), but the team will return its top scorer 
and rebounder. Junior forward Audrey Warnock (Parma, Ohio), the teams top with a 14.1 
points per game average, and senior center 
Micheala Kempton (Bellrose, NY), the 
squads top rebounder with an 8.6 boards per 
game average will pace the Streaks in 1987- 
88. Senior forward Mary Unti (Grosse Pointe 
Farms, Michigan), the third returning starter 
will also help make John Carrolls inside game 
tough as she averages *1.2 rebounds per game. 
Newcomers Meaghan Scullier (Adamsville, 
PA - Kennedy Christian) and Kerry Spicer 
(Lakewood, Ohio - Magnificat) are looking to 
fill the guard spots. The Lady Blue Streaks are 
coached by Joe Spicuzza, a 1973 graduate of 
John Carroll.
Washington and Jeffersons roster consists 
of only freshmen and sophomores. Ann 
Aigner (Duncansville, PA) a sophomore 
guard, is expected to provide leadership to the 
team. She led the Lady Presidents in nearly 
every statistical category - 175 points (8.8
points per game), 78 assists, 90 rebounds, 44 
steals and 28 blocked shots. Other returnees 
include Dawn Moczek (Martins Ferry, Ohio), 
Beth Twyman (Pittsburgh, PA), Lisa Lorenzo  
(Monongahela, PA), Carol Obringer (Pitts
burgh, PA), and Tina Zottola (Coraopolis, 
PA). W&J is relying on freshmen to improve 
last years overall 4-16 record; the team was 2-
10 in conference play.
In most sports, Thiel College ends up in the 
PAC cellar, but womens basketball provides 
an exception to that rule. Last years edition of 
the Tomcats ended the season at 18-6, 7-5 in 
the PAC. Thiel led the league in scoring, 
averaging over 74 points per game, almost 
seven points more than John Carroll, the 
leagues second best offense.
Returning to the Lady Tomcats are members 
of the PACs first and second team all-confer
ence squads. Julie Sierota, a 5 11" forward 
from Erie came onto the scene, becoming the 
PACs fifth highest scorer in her freshman 
year.
Also singled out by the coaches last year was 
senior center Cindy Bynum. The 5 11" native 
of Swissvale led the league with 12 rebounds 
per game. She also averaged slightly more 
than ten points per game.
The Bethany Bisons finished a mediocre 
fifth last year, one game ahead of the Lady 
Tartans, 6-16 overall. The Bisons were 
saddled with the conferences worst offense, 
scoring only 57.2 points per game, and averag
ing only a little better than 50% from the free 
throw line.
Hurting them even more will be the loss of 
the PACs number two scorer, Dianne Hess. 
The 58" contributed 17.2 points to the Bison 
cause nightly and will be hard to replace.
big question marks for John Carroll right now 
are junior guard Craig Huffman, junior center 
Jeff Lamb, and senior forward Jim Berger.
Huffman lead the team in scoring and assists 
last season as he went on to become the PACs 
Most Outstanding Freshman, yet, he hurt his 
leg in December and did not play until five 
games into the season. Huffman is listed as 
ready to return from his calcified muscle, 
yet it is questionable whether he will play at his 
previous level.
Lamb, on the other hand, is unlikely to see 
any court time this season as he had major 
reconstructive surgery on the ligaments in his 
knee last spring. Lamb lead the Blue Steaks 
last season in rebounds. %
The final question mark is Berger who has 
not had an injury free season since he started at 
John Carroll. Last season he lead the team in 
field goal percentage and was the secondleading scorer when he broke his foot and was 
sidelined until the last three games of the 
season.
Coach Baab is investing a lot again this 
season in last years PAC Co-MVP 6-5, 204- 
pound senior forward Andy Juhola. Juhola, 
who lead Carroll in court time with 439 min
utes, was one of only two players to start in all 
34 games last season. His 21.3 points per 
game average combined with his 6.0 rebounds 
per outing was the main reason the Blue 
continued on page B6
photo by Andy Gillespie
The 1987-88 Lady Tartans in practice.
6SP%gRc *gE4 ueSa4 FUgTP
The following are excerpts of an interview 
conducted by TheTartan on Monday,Novem
ber 9 with women's Head Coach Gerri Seidl.
Tartan: Last years team had a much better 
record than the year before, this year youre 
returning everyone but Val Sooky, Cheryl 
Hauser, and Patti Sparrow. Going into the 
season with this team, what do you think are 
the chances of taking the Presidents Athletic 
Conference title?
Seidl: I think we have a good chance at the 
Conference, but Id really rather go one game 
at a time. I do think we are definitely a 
contender for it. Id just like to just go one
game at a time and not worry so much about 
conference play. Id just like to get above .500 
for one year before we think about it.
T: It still should be a reasonable goal consid
ering how many people are back and the state 
of the PAC in womens basketball.
S: I think its a reasonable goal, I do agree 
with that. But Thiel is in the same boat, they 
have everyone back, John Carroll has every
one back. So were basically even. They have 
every one back, but so do we, the only team 
that doesnt is Grove City, the team that won it.
I think we can play with Thiel and John Carcontinued on pace B4>
Highlights of Yesteryear
continued from page B4
average defensive players. But neither could 
be counted on to provide instant or consistent 
offense.
Barts backcourt partner was either Roger 
DeVries or Tom Franklin. Outside shooting 
was a CMU weakness a year ago, and senior 
. DeVries (8.4 ppg, 3.1 apg) could fill it up from 
" the perimeter, despite only a .378 field goal 
percentage. Franklin, a junior, had started the 
previous year, and was a tenacious defensive 
player and playmaker at only 58". He also 
didnt like to shoot (1.6 field goal attempts per 
contest), and made less than 31% of the shots 
he did take.
A pair of Davids and a Harvey were pleas
ant surprises in 86-87. Junior center David 
" Smith (3.4 ppg, 3<0 rpg) had played very little, 
being in Colemans shadow since his arrival 
from Norwin H.S., and filled in well when 
Coleman got hurt. Sophomore swingman 
David Sikora (3.9 ppg, 3.0 rpg) settled in at
forward and provided some quality minutes. 
Guard Harvey Beckham (2.2 ppg) was the 
only freshman to see significant time in the 
Tartan lineup, and showed some potential.
The Tartans didnt deal well with the new 
three-point line. CMU was last in the PAC in 
three-point shooting (.283), and had problems 
defensing the shot. DeVries took 74 of the 
Tartans 99 homerun attempts, making only
31.1 % of them. Bart connected on three of 12, 
and Cwalina missed all five of his tries.
But the 1986-1987 season all reverts to one 
word: inconsistency. Under fourth year Head 
Coach Larry Anderson, Carnegie Mellon 
never won more than three in a row, and 
dropped five straight non-conferences affairs 
in December. The Tartans often lacked inten
sity, and made too many turnovers. They were 
a good team but not a great one.
Because great teams beat all the bad guys 
and all the good guys.

---------------------------------------------------

Page B6The TartanNovember 17,1987
Looking at the PAC - Men
continued from page B5
ueREgRAgRc E4U ueRCUr3SEgeR
continued from page B5
Streaks were able to overcome their injuries 
last season. Junior center Joe Curry and senior 
guard SteCe Rayl are the Streaks other two 
returning starters.
After finishing second in the PAC with a 8- 
4 record, the Grove City Wolverines could 
prove to be the contending team this year. 
With all fiveof their starters returning this year 
and eight out of their ten lettermen returning 
the Wolverines are going to have a lot of 
experience out on the court.
Grove City will be counting on guard Deron 
Ryan, the only senior on the team, giving a 
repeat of last years performance. Ryan led 
Grove City last season in scoring with a total 
338 points and averaging 15.4 points per 
game. He was also named to the first teamAll-PAC.
Also noteworthy is junior guard Joe Buck
ley, named to the second team-All-PAC. 
Buckley lead the team in rebounds with a total 
of 127, averaging 6 per game. He was also 
second in scoring with 275 total points, 13.1 
per game.
If anything will work to the Wolverines 
advantage it will be the strength of their return
ing guards and the fact that they basically are 
returning last years team. With the losses of 
Carnegie Mellon and John Carrolls starters, 
Grove City may just sneak away with the PAC 
title.
Bethany College after finishing fourth with a 
losing record of 5-7 (9-15 overall) is going to 
need some help from their freshman this year 
if the team hopes to do anything in the PAC. 
While they only graduated one letterman, 
Bethany has lost three of its four leading scor
ers. Carl Allison, who was third in scoring with 
235 total points, will be out this season due to 
a back injury; Bryan Sims, who was second in 
both scoring and rebounds transferred; and
By DAVID BRILL
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
Carnegie Mellon this year has reached a new 
plateau in basketball by joining the University 
Athletic Association. The new conference 
promises to be a very exciting step in Tartan 
basketball and a chance to showcase the tal
ents of Division III basketball on the Eastern 
half of the country.
NYU : After a 17-11 record last year, the 
Violets have only six returning lettermen. 
NYU is without their all-time leading sower 
Terry Tarpey, who set an NYU record scoring 
1778 points. Senior captain Jim Folz an 11.1 
points per game scorer connected on an im
pressive 57.7% of his field goals tries.
Chris Pashke, who lead the team in rebounds 
with 141 and was second in scoring with 243 
total points, 10.1 per game, has refused to play 
this year. On the brighter side for the young 
Bison team. Senior Co-captain Ron Bozick 
will be returning. Bozick led the team in 
scoring with 399 total points and an impres
sive 16.6 points per game. Bethany reports 
being impressed with their freshman recruits, 
but it is going to take a lot of work to make up 
for the teams losses.
After a disastrous 7th place finish in the PAC 
with a 3-9 record last season, Washington and 
Jefferson can only improve this year. After 
only returning one starter, guard Greg Kier, 
last season the team is pleased to have only lost 
two starters and three lettermen this year. The 
returning starters are senior Kier, senior for
ward Andy Turzak, and sophomore forward 
Danny Jones.
Turzak and Jones have impressive points per 
game statistics (14.3 and 15 respectively), 
however the rest of the lineup seems rather 
hollow. The Presidents are a young team with 
only 2 seniors, no juniors, 6 sophomores, and
11 freshmen. With such a young team in a 
couple of years W & J may have a competitive 
team when their freshman get some experi
ence.
Fourth place Hiram College loses only one 
player from last years squad, but they cer
tainly lost their most important player. Lost to 
graduation was NCAA Division Ills leading 
scorer, Rod Swartz. The 60" guard bombed 
the Tartans last season for 52 points at Skibo 
Gym, setting a new Presidents Athletic Con
ference scoring record.
The Theil Tomcats will again be one of the 
PACs doormats, last year they escaped their 
accustomed position in the conference cellar, 
but this year they should return back there.
He recieved an award as NYUs best defen
sive player, and will be key ingredient Even 
with the loss of Tarpey the Violets will be 
tough and probably will finish atop the UAA.
Washington U: The Bears finished with a21- 
7 record last year and reached the finals of their 
Division 111 regional tournament. Thirteen 
lettermen are returning including Kevin 
Suiter, a third-team All-American pick. 
Among the thirteen lettermen are four of last 
years starters. Suiter is the Bears main offen
sive threat averaging 19.4 points per game and 
made 75 3-point field goals last yeafr. The 
Bears ranked 15th in last years final Division
III poll and look to batte NYU for the top spot
continued on page B7
roll. I think we can play with anyone in the 
Presidents Athletic Conference.
T: What do you think about your UAA oppo
nents?
S: To be perfectly honest, I dont know much 
about them. Hopefully, well be able to get 
some reports on them, I do know about NYU 
and Rochester because we played them. And 
last year Rochester was ranked eleventh in the 
nation and we only lost to them by six points, 
that gives you an idea of what were capable of 
of. If were playing against a nationally 
ranked team, and we can stay with them. Then 
I think we should do well. We have everybody
The Lady Tartans on defense against W&J.
back. We do have seven people; Id like to 
have a little more, but...
T: How did the recruiting go this year?
S: We have three freshman on the team and 
one junior transfer from Switzerland. At this 
point those players are not ready to play in the 
game yet By the second half, I certainly hope 
theyll be ready. Certainly well need more 
than seven players.
T: Last year one of the things you talked 
about that was hurting you was the lack of size. 
Besides Aimee Reber and Patricia Chorgo you 
dont have much size.
S; Well actually, Trish didnt get to play that 
much...she wasnt much of a factor last year. I 
think shes going to be more of a dominant 
factor this year, with Tricia at center it frees 
Aimee to play forward, which is just what 
weve been frying to do for the last two years.
T: Are two big people going to be enough this 
year?
S: Its going to have to be. I certainly feel 
confident in the seven people I have returning; 
it would be nice to have 10; some luxuries we 
live without.
T: So this year were going to play a 2-2-1 
instead of a 3-2.
S: Yes, some of the game well go with a 
three guard, two forward offense, or two 
guards, two forwards, and a center. Even 
though Aimee will play in the center position, 
shes a true forward and a very good backup 
center. Shes played center for two years, so I 
feel very confident with her at center.
T: Last year, there wasnt as much as there 
was two years ago, but sometimes it seemed 
like the offense lived and died by Lisa 
Lightners outside shot Not everyone was 
willing to take the shot
S: Were trying to run, were going to have a
controlled fast break, but were running. We 
scrimmaged Saturday, but I think we did a fair 
to decent shot on our fast break. When we 
stopped running the fast break it made a major 
difference in our offense. Were not fast...
T: And you have only seven people who you 
feel confident to play right now.
S: ...Right so we have to slow the game down 
and set up a half court offense.
T: Do you think the fast break will work in 
the PAC? It didnt seem like many of the 
teams run the fast break, because womens 
basketball seems to be a slower paced game.
S: Maybe in the PAC, but not in other divi
sions. Our fast break isnt fast, and we might
(
photo by Andy Gillespie
not get the two on one down the court in fact 
its so controlled the team is usually set in their 
defense. Its more of a controlled break, I 
think if we can establish that part of our of
fense, it will help us tremendously.
T: You mentioned a second change in the > 
offense.
S: Were frying a couple of things in the 
offense. Weve moved Lisa to point guard far 
a while, so actually well have a rotation in 
lineups. Im trying to play seven play equally, 
so we need Lisa at point guard. Ourotherpoint 
guard will probably be Valerie Kwaitkowski.
T: The way I count it you have four guards, 
two forwards, and a center.
S: Right, we have to make use of our guards. 
To make use of them, well have to run a three 
guard offense sometimes, and thats what 
well do.
T; How much of an adjustment is it for Lisa 
to become a point guard?
S: Well, we started this at the end of last 
season actually, she never played point guard 
in high school, she played wing guard, in fact * 
in high school she wasnt even a shooter, she 
played defense. It wasnt until she came to 
Carnegie Mellon that someone told her you 
have to shoot the ball. Now were telling her 
not only do you have to shoot the ball, you have 
to bring the ball up too. I dont want her there, 
ideally. So, if we can get another guard to play 
there...
T: How hard is it to attract players with these ft 
juniors that are seeing all of the playing time?
S; Our problem is a lot of coaches of female 
basketball say, Why do you want to play in 
college? So I feel that the girls I have are so 
special, they want to do this. This year, I 
happen to have a lot more leads on good
continued on page B7
Tom Franlkin driving up court
w >ee% SE E4U KUo 1gCSP3
%

---------------------------------------------------

November 17,1987The TartanPage B7
Mgr3E :PSRaU3 SE E4U lww
continued from page B6
in the UAA.
University of Chicago: The Maroons lost 
three starters from their 1986 squad which 
finished 13-8 and tallied an impressive 10-0 
record at home. The only senior returning is 
Tom Redburg who led the team with a 15.2 
points per game average. He also averaged 
about 5 rebounds a game. The Maroons are 
known for strong defense; an example was that 
the team was ranked #1 in the Midwest Con
ference last year in defense. With a young 
team, the Maroons will still be tough and 
probably finish a strong third and will chal
lenge for the conference championship.
Brandeis: The Judges posted an overall 11- 
14 mark which was the most wins they had 
since the 1978-79 season. The Judges were 
also 11-11 against Division III opponents. On 
offense Brandeis is led by 58" guard Stanley 
House who last year reached the 1,000 point 
plateau. House led the Judges in scoring (18.5 
p.p.g.), assists and steals. Two freshmen fig
ured prominently: Jamie Bourgue averaged
11.2 p.p.g. and Troy Glover 10.5 p.p.g. The 
Judges lost their tri-captain David Power who 
averaged 6.0 a game. The Judges are on the 
rise and are a competitive team.
Johns Hopkins: The Blue Jays finished six 
and eighteen under first year coach Bill Nel
son. The team is dominated by new players 
with 9 new faces among the 15 on the roster. 
On the offense, the Blue Jays are led by Jedan 
Phillips and Mike Latimore. Phillips averaged
14.4 p.p.g. and Latimore 12.8 p.p.g. The main 
problem for Johns Hopkins will be lack of 
team experience. The team hasnt played long 
as a group and theyll have problems at first, 
but when they gel, the Blue Jays will be com
petitive, but not ready to seriously compete for 
the conference championship.
Emory: The Eagles finished their inaugurual 
season in basketball wih a 7-14 record, they 
are led on offensive by All-South forward who 
averaged 17.8 p.p.g. and 11.8 rebounds a 
game. Also they are returning Paul Damm, 
their leading scorer who paced the squad with
18.5 p.p.g. The Eagles have two good pros
pects in Matt Brechon, a 66 forward and 
Tony Gorsuch, a 61 guard. They should 
improve on last years outing with more expe
rience as they go along.
Rochester: The Yellowjackets come into the 
inaugural UAA season returning ten letter 
winners from last years 1986 squad. The 
Tartans defeated that squad 65-60 in the 
LaJolla Classic at San Diego last season. 
Leading the Yellowjackets will be two sen
iors, guard Adrian Smalls and cento* Tyler 
Zachem.
The Tartans in action last year in San Diego.
photo by Stew Levine
FsUS%gRc *gE4 ueSa4 wRTUr3eR
The following is portions of an interview 
conducted, by The Tartan with Mens Head 
Coach Larry Anderson last week.
Tartan: You lost two of your three top scorers 
going into this year, where are you points 
going to come from?
Anderson:I really think that Darryl Long and 
Daren Moffatt will pick up the slack there. In 
fact both of them have played well for us in 
practice and in the first game we had. Matter 
of fact in the first scrimmage, Darryl had 19 
points, 10 rebounds and a couple of steals. 
Darryl didnt shoot particularly well, but one 
of the things he did in the scrimmage, man he 
got his hand on every shot that was taken 
against him, you know he had his hand on, or 
misdirected a shot. I think that those two will 
emerge as some scorers for us. Also at the 
same time, Im not really counting on him 
right off the bat, but I think the way Michael 
Stewart has been playing, he can shoot the ball 
from outside. You know were really looking 
for some outside shooting from him and Har
vey Beckham. 1 think in losing those two, Pete 
and David, I think were gaining 4 or 5 scorers.
T: Taking a look at your roster, theres a lot 
of new people there this year.
A: Theres a lot of new people. A couple of 
those players may be deleted, but we have 11 
back from last season. Starting off with Hart
Coleman, Tommy Franklin, and David Smith 
who are seniors. Then you have Darryl Long, 
Daren Moffatt, and Dave Sikora who are jun
iors, and Tony Rankin, Harvey Beckham, 
Gary Breauninger, and Charles Luckett who 
are sophomores. The only new freshman, the 
only true freshman on the team is Louis 
Jackson. Now we have some newcomers in 
Tim Snodgrass, Tim Walker, John Keith 
Morgan who is a transfer from Boston Univer
sity, and Charlie Vaught who was here a 
couple of years ago, actually he was out of 
school for a year. We have a lot of new faces, 
but I think we have more old faces.
T: Did you actually recruit these people or 
were they walk-ons?
A: Keith Morgan we were recruiting. Tim 
Walker we were recruiting last year, he de
cided not to play last year. Charlie Vaught was 
a quarterback two or three years ago. And Tim 
Snodgrass , although he was in school last 
year, he decided not to play last year. We knew 
they were on campus, we actively recruited 
them on campus.
T: How quickly could one of these players 
get in and become one of the eight or nine 
players who get in the game regularly.
A: Well, Ill tell you what, I think Charlie 
Vaught and Keith Morgan are playing really 
continued on page B8
Seidl cont.
continued from page B6
academic athletes. I have some good leads on 
some local players which is even better. The 
two freshman I got were from Massachusetts;
I never had a chance to see them play, yknow, 
or what they were about.
T: With the UAA are you able to get out 
farther? When you play Brandeis can that turn 
out to be a recruiting trip?
S: No, I dont have the budget to stay any
where. This year, were going to Chicago, Im 
recruiting a kid out of Chicago. Aagain Ill 
meet that person, unfortunately I wont be able 
to see her play, but at least Ill get to meet her.
T: What do you feel is going to happen in the 
tournament?
S: Gosh, Im so excited about those two 
games. I feel so confident this year. I think that 
this tournament will be good for us. For one, 
Case Western, we open up with a UAA team 
and I think that we have a very good chance of 
winning that game.
T: Last year they were in the tournament, and 
you didnt play them.
S: They played Frostburg first and Frostburg 
beat them pretty handily, and a lot of people, 
even coaches I know said, I dont know how 
youre going to beat them, theyre so big, so 
strong... We came out and beat Frostburg. I 
think well do well against Case. Brandeis, I 
know nothing about them. Hopefully, Ill be 
able to find someone who played against them. 
One of the UAA laws is that were not allowed 
to talk about another UAA team to another 
school.
T: How do you feel about that policy. The 
football team studies films to plan strategies 
against teams. Does this affect basketball?
S: Fortunately, if everyone is doing the same 
thing, its even. Im fortunate because Ive got 
people in other cities watching those teams. 
As a coach, one of my jobs is to know the 
opposing team, and to not know a team makes 
it a little bit harder going into a game. If you 
have a good team, what Id like to see is our 
team establish our type of game, so I dont 
have to worry about the other team, because I 
know what were going to do.
I think as soon as the girls on this team learn 
that we have a game plan and were going into 
this game and were going to play our game, I 
dont care what you do. Then well notice a 
difference. I think in the past weve always 
been chasing other people. And I think a lot of 
that had to do with having a lot of young 
people. Maybe not having the confidence you 
should have when youre young. When youre 
getting beat its hard to have confidence, and
photo by Andy Gillespie
Val Kwaitkowski driving against Carlow.
losing breeds losing and winning breeds win
ning.
Its very hard to say to someone youre good, 
but how can we be good if were not winning. 
Its also not conducive to good team ball. As 
soon as things arent going well, its easy to fall 
apart. So, were trying to get them to play 
together and to play our game.
T: With six games in the fall, are we going to 
see the Lady Tartans or should we wait until 
January?
S: I think well be ready to play in our 
tournament; were a little bit ahead; no, were 
about where we need to be as theory goes, I 
dont think were executing it We know half 
our game plan; we have two more weeks to 
finish that off, that doesnt mean come No
vember 20th our game plan is going to be 
smooth as silk. Hopefully the changes will be 
established. Pressing is going to take some 
time. With seven people and trying to run a 
running game, were going to have to change 
a little of the pressing.
T: Having classes a week later, is that going 
affect the team?
S: Actually that might be a plus, that will be 
the only time well be playing basketball with
out academics. Unfortunately, I wish it were 
that time we were practicing. I dont know, it 
continued on page B8
Fighting for a loose ball at the LaJolla Classic.
photo by Stew Levine

---------------------------------------------------

Page B8The TartanNovember 17,1987
wRTUr3eR ueREgRAUT
continued from page B7Seidl Concluded
well for us, and Tim Snodgrass gets the job 
done well, hes really giving our people a hard 
way to go. Out of the walk-ons that are not 
freshman, probably Vaught and Morgan 
might get some time and help out. Theyre 
both pretty versatile. Although, theyre both 
sophomores, maybe even considered juniors, 
and both of them havent really played last 
year, I think they could both contribute to the 
team. They both have ability. It would take a 
little while.
T: Do you think we could expect to see them 
in the tournament?
A: I think so. I definitely think they will get 
some time. Were going to try to get our 
people as much time as we can. I told our guys 
in practice the other day, we have no time to 
mess around, we get into our conference play 
right away. We have Emory, Brandeis, and 
Case in our tournament. Then we have Point 
Park and Gettysburg at home, and we want to 
win our games at home. And then we turn 
around and have another conference game at 
New York, and then we have Christmas Break. 
Right away were going to be in the heat of 
some action. Then were going to turn around 
in January, and we have another UAA game, 
and then we start in the Presidents Confer
ence; things arc not going to be easy for us. 
Were going to have our work cut out for us.
T: With Dave Bart gone, looking up and 
down the roster, I count 2 people who could be 
considered point guards, by virtue of the fact 
theyve played there in the past, they being 
Tom Franklin and Gary Breauninger could 
play the 2 spot.
A: Well for now, Tommy Franklin is our 
primary point guard, and hes going to be there 
until someone else bats him out. But, you 
cant substitute that experience, hes been here 
for three years and hes played a lot for us, so 
weve got to have him in there. Hes playing 
better than he has in the past, at least hes 
shooting the ball a little more than he has in the 
past. Michael Stewart is a point guard how
ever. We are probably not going to play Gary 
Breauninger this year, Gary has serious knee 
problems. So we eliminate one, but Michael 
Stewart is a point guard, and so is Lewis 
Jackson. Lewis has to learn, hes a freshman, 
he has a long way to go. Right now Tommy 
is our point guard. Right now, were running 
with Tommy Franklin and Michael Stewart in 
our back court, so weve got a pretty small 
back court. But theyll get out and press some 
people and bother some people.
T: Are you worried about the height of your 
front court, especially when Darryl Long is in 
the game.
A: No, Darryl is about 64", but he has 
extremely long arms, and as I said earlier, the 
man he was defending, he must have blocked 
his shot 5 times, and altered his shot another 5 
times. He gets his hands up on in the air, and 
guards the basketball, and I dont think his 
height is going to hurt us. In fact, I think at 
times he plays Hart Coleman better than any
body because with his long arms he can stand 
back and block his shot.
T: Of your other two big men, David Smith 
played a lot last year.
A:One thing is, whenever David goes into 
the game, he never hurts us, he always does 
something positive. I tell some of the players 
that may not be starters, but they get into the 
game, You have to be better than that guy 
whos coming out of the game. That person 
may be in foul trouble, he may not be having 
a particularly good game, but that sub has to go 
in there and replace that starter who came out 
of the game, and David has done that. Hes 
going to see a lot of playing time this year. 
Hes the first or second player off the bench. 
We know hes going to get some rebounds and 
block some shots. Plus at the same time,
maybe even more important, hes been here 
four years, he knows what we want him to do, 
and he plays intelligent on the court.
T: Your other big man, Charles Luckett, he 
didnt see as much playing time last year.
A: Well, Charles has made vast improve
ment over last year and over the summer, and 
I dont know, maybe he was considered as 
maybe the scapegoat, I dont know what the 
players would call him, but I thought he and 
Tony Rankin had made more progress in 
improvement in improving their basketball 
game in one season and are really playing well. 
And I hope that he gets some time, for one 
thing he can shoot the ball and he can rebound. 
I think one of the problems is that in high 
school he didnt play much. I knew it would 
take him time. Where he lives theres a lot of 
great players out there.
T: I noticed that five of your players are from 
the DC area, and only five are from Western 
Pennsylvania. Have you made a concerted 
effort to expand your recruiting outside the tri
state area?
A: I have about 200 files right here and I have 
some at home; were recruiting in Washington
DC, in Baltimore, in Chicago, in Cleveland, in 
New York...But theres a lot of kids in Western 
Pa. that we go after.
T: Does that mean a trip to NYU becomes a 
recruiting trip?
A: Oh yeah, Im sending out notes cards, and 
were saying that were going to be in Chicago 
at so and so time.
T; Foul shooting was a problem, and its a
problem that weve had for a nuntber of years, 
and we ask you this every year and you keep 
having a little more hope that things will be 
better, what do you say this year?
A: Well, the other day we were playing in a 
scrimmage and Bill said were shooting the 
ball really well, maybe we should stop shoot
ing.
Kinavey: We just made most of our foul 
shots, so I said we should stop, because the 
more we shot, the less wed make.
A: We dont practice it every day...every 
game we start shooting fouls when the game 
starts. Its just been a problem for us, I dont 
know what the remedy is. Its confidence, 
getting on the line, bending your knees and 
taking the shot.
T: Its just the fact of consistency, the 86 
Tartans were as consistent in their overall play 
or inconsistent as they were on the foul line.
A: I think what that was attributed to, I think 
David Bart getting hurt really hurt the continu
ity of what we needed to do. In the beginning 
of the year, we won our first two or three, then 
we lost the next two or three, then we won one, 
lost one. Coming into conference play, we 
may have been 4-4,3-3. I think David missed 
a few games. And a really quality player like 
him. You lose a person like that its going to 
hurt, and then the last four or five games, we 
lose Hart Coleman in the middle. Baseball, if 
youre not good up the middle isnt good, 
youre in trouble.
T: The one part of the game, we really 
seemed to be missing, and our opponents had, 
was the three point shot. You lost your best 3- 
point shooters to graduation.
A: I think it will change, Michael Stewart 
shoots pretty well from out there, Louis 
Jackson shoots from pretty well out, Tommy 
has been, Harvey shoots pretty well from out 
there. Its all a part of the game and we have 
to have it in the game. Believe me, were not 
going to go crazy about it. Were not going to 
be a team that gets back in the game with three 
point shots, were going to play conventional 
tional basketball. Im worried a little more 
about three point shots, but were not going to 
come down court and fire three point shots... 
Last year we didnt defense the three point 
play well.
continued from page B7
wont be the same. I know the gym wont be 
packed. Yourelyonyourstudentbodyasyour 
main fans. The fraternities come to our games, 
the student body comes to our games.
T: Youre starting seven players, in two 
words describe each person.
S: Lisa - defense, shooter.
Donna (Spicuzza) - defense (pause) offen
sive movement without the ball.
Beth (Virgin) - aggressive, leader, best 
worker 
Aimee - shooter, leader also 
Trish - strength, fast break starter, rebounder 
Valerie - hardnosed 
Roseanna - hustler, ability to shoot 
T: One thing thats unique about this team is 
that you have a core of four people who have 
been playing together for two years now. How 
do you see that? Obviously that will help the 
team.
S: I see a core of three of three. I see Lisa, 
Beth, and Aimee as a core, and I think they're 
starting to do more creative things on the court
I think theyre all beginning to see situations 
and react to them, and not say but the offense 
is this, which they did for the first two years. 
But now they realize to get away from the 
offense, I think that I can really see that im
provement where they see that this is the 
offense, but the defense is doing this. They 
look for each other.
Tricia, she really isnt experienced, shes 
improved so much, but she still has a way to 
go. Shes going to allow us to play a zone and 
get rebounds and make the fast break. Hamain strength is rebounding the ball.
T: Where are the four new people in the 
system?
S: Its going to be hard to play anybody 
initially. Erica, the junior out of Switzerland, 
is so quick; I could see her coming in the 
number two guard spot And we have that 
problem with all of our guards, so that will hurt 
ho- playing time. Were not going to move 
anybody new in until we get some comfortable 
gameplay with the seven people we have, then 
Ill start working people in.
Erica could be the first person in, but thats 
tough too, because were looking at someone
who will only be here for one year. Should I 
use this freshman or should I use this junior 
because she has a little more ability right now. 
Allison Kamck, wholl be a good player for 
us, is a quick little guard who has a nice sense 
of the court. Shell eventually work her wa, n 
at point guard or wing guard.
Julie Sexton is a forward who is really small, 
like 5 7". She played inside in high school and 
thats where were using her now. Id like to 
have her play as a shooting forward on the 
outside.
Karen Ericson, the other freshman, is 510" 
or 511" and were trying to work her in at 
power forward rather than center becai : 
shes going to be following Tricia for three | 
years, when Aimee moves out of that power 
forward position, she can move right in.
But all of those people need a lot more work 
before this will happen.
T: Weve talked about the pluses, but what 
does the team still have to worry about to 
overcome that .500 barrier and look to the 
PAC championship.
S: I think we need confidence and that will 
come. As soon as we decide this, how we're 
going to play and I dont care what they do. 
Theyre taking something away, but theyre 
giving us something else. When we can do 
that I think everything else will fall into place.
We have to stay healthy, and were in very 
good shape.
T: This new fast break offenseit may tir > 
you out late in the second half.
S: It may; one of the concerns I have, youre 
playing fast, and you die; you tire out. You 
have to play the half-court offense. Its not so 
much the offense you run, its the people who 
run that offense. Most teams do the same 
things year in year out.
T: Im in the stands Friday night; what should
I be looking for?
S: Well, I hope they see a lot of teamwork, 
number one. Theyll see an aggressive 
change-up defense. I think we are a man-toman team, but weve been practicing zone. I 
hope theyll see a fast break that isnt a tradi
tional lay-up fast break, but one that we score 
once we get down the court
