[ he Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University. Pittsburgh, PA 15213, Volume 81, Number 8, November 4, 1980.
Sauer releases report, 
Outlines dept goals
support courses, the use of electives in 
strengthening student direction in the devel
opment of design skills and sensitivites, and 
the use of visiting Architects in teaching 
studios.
Sauer also hopes to achieve better integra
tion of courses and sequences, strengthen 
support courses, diversify programs streng
then cross-diciplinary connections, and 
establish better links with the city and out
side world.
According to the report: acheiving the 
goals outlined above will take a great deal of 
discussion and hard work. The Head must 
take a leadership role, all faculty members 
must take on a share of the responsibility by 
contributing fully to the discussions, and 
the students must be kept informed and 
actively involved.
In a letter dated Oct. 15 CMU President 
Richard Cyert assured students and faculty 
of the Department of Architecture that the 
undergraduate program remains a high 
priority to the University. Cyert continued 
by stating considerations for the department 
that he had discussed with Sauer. These con
siderations include, the role of Architecture 
in providing support to the rest of the University and providing a consistent set of pholo by Rober, Zllsman
continued on page 7 Burrr...ivinter is almost here
Informal poll taken, CMU voters speak up
by Renee Rosenfeld
At a meeting of the Department of Archit tecture, Louis Sauer, Department Head, 
I released a Progress Report, including direcI tions for the department. The intent of the I report is to outline directions for change in 
L terms of departmental goals, programs, 
I faculty, and advisory processes. With this 
I report, Sauer hopes to provide the basis for 
I dialogue among the departments faculty 
I and students on significant issues in Archi1 tectural education and on the development 
I of a curriculum responsive to departmental 
and University policies.
Sauer defines the Departments educa
tional mission as being three-fold. First to 
identify significant questions which require 
knowledge; second, to aquire knowledge 
and to evaluate its significance; and third, to 
pass on knowledge through teaching, publi
cation , and professional practice. These 
three aspects of the departments mission 
define standards for teaching and research. 
The departments standards demand the 
development of teaching and research as 
complementary and mutually supportive. 
They also establish a framework for dia
logue within which a wide range of viewIpoints can be represented.
Additionally, Sauer sees the development 
of policies for faculty appointments as an 
important aspect in defining departmental 
direction. In order to clarify policy in regard
 to part-time faculty appointments, Sauer
ihas differentiated between full-time and 
part-time faculty titles. Part-time faculty are 
named: Studio Critic and/or Lecturer; 
I while full time faculty remain: Instructor, 
Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, and
I* Professor, as defined by the Faculty 
Handbook.
Sauer outlined seven immediate objec
tives for the undergraduate program. The 
If first is the strengthening of the design 
sequence by strengthening studios, enrich
ing studio offerings, decreasing the student/faculty ratio, strengthening the 
relationship between design studios and
by Brad Vickerson and Greg Pisocky
Tonight Americans will submit them
selves to what has been called the only poll 
that counts, Election Day 1980. The net
works and the major polling organizations 
have conducted their own surveys to try and 
predict how the electorate will vote and, 
more important, why. Last Thursday The 
Tartan conducted a poll erf its own, on a 
more modest scale, in an effort to determine 
student voting patterns.
The telephone survey involved sixty 
respondents who were asked if they were
4registered to vote, did they intend to vote, if 
they were affiliated with a political party, 
and who they would vote for for President. 
In the case of those students registered in 
Pennsylvania, participants were asked for 
their preference in the Senate election 
between Peter Flaherty and Arlen Specter. 
Participants were selected randomly, and 
while the results are not scientific in terms of 
statistical analysis, some interesting trends 
were revealed that should explain what 
happens at the polls today.
Students at CMU were conscientious in 
their duty to vote. Forty-four of the respondents were registered. Forty of those indicated 
that they had voted or intended to vote. 
Many people had gone to the trouble to 
obtain absentee ballots. There is no way the 
country can expect a 90% eligible voter tur
nout. it is important to note that CMU stu
dents represent the more motivated, 
educated electorate that will bother to get to 
the polls.
Registration figures reveal 19 Republi
cans, 17 Democrats, and 24 registered Inde
pendents. Five of the Republicans, two 
Democrats, and nine Independents were not
continued on page 4
Carter 8c Reagan make final campaign stops in Pittsburgh
Campaign 80 wound to a close this week 
as both Ronald Reagan and Jimmy Carter 
made stops in Pittsburgh. Recognizing the 
importance of Pennsylvania in the outcome 
of todays election, both candidates made 
final attempts to woo the people of this state.
Carters town meeting at Trinity 
Cathedral downtown gave Pittsburghers the 
opportunity to question the President on 
various issues. Carter answered questions on 
Social Security, nuclear arms control, agent 
orange, govt regulations preserving the 
environment, jobs for young people and 
relations between the executive and the 
congress.
Carters responses were in line with his 
rhetoric from the entire campaign; however, 
when questioned about his opponents age 
Carter replied that he believed Mr. Reagan 
to be a vigorous campaigner  and that age 
should not be the factor to decide the 
election  other issues were more 
important.
Carter commented that campaigning for 
election is not a chore; its a chance for 
Americans to Like inventory to see where 
weve been and where were headed. 
Governor Reagan said that under 
President Carters leadership our nation has 
been thrown into an economic recession 
and a decreased world image.
Ive talked to people around this 
country, Reagan said from die top of the 
staircase at the Grand Concourse restaurant, 
and Ive heard their hopes and dreams 
being shattered by the economic policies, 
the inflation and the unemployment of this 
administration.
Its all very well to talk about national 
averages, but thats a little like telling a 
drowning man that the average depth of the 
river is only three feet.
The crowd of approximately 1,000 that 
had gathered to hear Reagan at Station 
Square laughed at the Governors remarks 
continued on page 5
Photo by Robert Zusman
PRESIDENT JIMMY CARTER
Photo by Jim Balsom 
GOVERNOR RONALD REAGAN

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.__________________________
Architecture report pacifies student demands
After weeks of anticipation and considerable 
controversy, the Administration of the 
Architecture Department has released a 
statement of policy and dirction. Perhaps more 
accurately, Mr. Sauers Progrss Report is a 
statement of pacification aimed at muting 
student calls for a definative course of action 
for the Department.
Mr. Sauers Progress Report (available for 
student inspection) provides a philosophical 
framework for composing Departmental 
direction, but falls short of a structured policy 
that outlines the education of CMU architects. 
We all agree that strengthening existing 
programs, diversifying options, and creating 
stronger des to other departments in the 
university are important goals. They are 
concepts that underlie policy for the endie
university, as expressed by President Cyert. 
Exactly how will these goals be achieved for 
Architecture?
Dialogue among all members of the 
department is central to the process of change 
and direcdon Sauer conceptualizes. Mr. Sauer 
has stated that communication with students 
has been extremely difficult in the absence of a 
formal student organization. Now with the 
Architecture Student Government 
Organization, there will be no excuse. Student 
concern has pushed the administration into 
what litde action it has taken. If the student 
organization collapses, we may never witness a 
tangible statement of Architectural policy.
Mr. Sauer describes his first year as Head as a 
time to learn. The Department existed in 
administrative limbo for four years prior to
Sauers appointment. There seems to be no 
end in sight. His new statement provides the 
administrative support that is essential for 
discussion by all facets of the Department, but 
lacks the specific basis for this discussion 
Mr. Sauer describes the Department Heads 
position as one of leadership. If the 
Department is going to be truly strengthened, 
then the Head must emerge as a leader now, 
before future architects flock to more secure 
institutions. There is no doubt that this 
department is regarded as one of the finest, 
however we cannot help but wonder how long 
our architects will be able to honestly defend 
the reputation of their degrees. If CMU is to 
maintain respect among members of the 
profession, this non-commital attitude must 
be abandoned for strength in leadership and 
clear-cut objectives.The government numbers game
The campaign is finally over; after too 
much hoopla and too little substance the 
day erf decision has mercifully arrived. Ive 
indicated my feeling that Reagan would 
capture the presidency throughout my pre
vious articles. Writing this piece a few 
nights before the election, however, Im not 
sure. Something tells me that most of that 
large bloc of the electorage who are unde
cided will vote for the President. There is 
also the possibility that many of these peo
ple will not vote at all. But even many who 
are now leaning toward Reagan may pull 
down the Carter-Mondale lever in that last 
moment of self-reflection after they close the 
curtains of the voting booth.
These votes will give Carter Texas, New 
York, Ohio, Illinois, and Pennsylvania. Of
Election day eve
the big nine Reagan will still hold Michi
gan, with the help of Gerald Ford and popu
lar governor Bill Milliken, New Jersey,
Bill
Kapner
Florida and California. If Reagan gets all of 
the Western states plus Wisconsin and New 
Hampshire he still only has 201 of the 270 
electoral votes needed to win. Even if Rea
gan gets Virginia, Louisianna, South Carol
ina, Mississippi and Maine he still dhly has
257.
Conceding New York to Carter and Mich
igan to Reagan, the really key states are thn 
Texas, Illinois, Ohio and Pennsylvania 
which represent 104 electoral votes. These 
states, all with a large number of undecided 
voters, will give Carter enough votes to go 
over the needed 270. Some say that Anderson 
will take away enough Democratic votes in 
Massachusetts and Connecticut to wing 
those states to Reagan, but that chance 
seems to have faded as the Anderson candi
dacy' fizzled away last month. My final pre
diction, then, is 278 electoral votes for Carter 
to 257 for Reagan.
By the way, I hope Im wrong.
Candidates hustle Suburbantown
Suburbantown, Pa. (BS)-President Car
ter and Republican Ronald Reagan yester
day spent their final day of campaigning 
hustling votes in the critical state of Pennsyl
vania. Both stopped briefly in Surburbantown, although separately at different times 
during the day. Each candidate touched on 
themes established in last weeks debate and 
earlier in the campaign.
Carter appeared somewhat tense at his 
latest town meeting, surrounded by several 
hundred unemployed steelworkers.
Prosperity is on the way, Carter meekly 
announced to his grim audience. One man 
yelled, But were still in this recession of 
yours and last months inflation was well 
over 12 percent. How can you tell us your 
latest economic plan is working?
To begin with, Carter replied, every 
economic problem we've endured during 
the past four years has been caused entirely 
by our dependence on foreign oil. Also, our 
economic progress has been curbed by the 
Republican minority in Congress. In case 
you havent noticed, every Republican on 
the face of the earth is a stupid, scumsucking twit.
I also want to warn you,  the president 
continued, dont let yourselves be misled by 
our lousy economic figures and other facts. I 
love yall and Ill take care erf everyone. Have 
I ever lied to you before?
What about the hostages? one man 
asked. Will we ever see them again?
As Ive said for the past 12 months, 
Carter replied, we cant discuss any of my
controversial foreign policy decisions. To 
do so might lead to instability in Irans 
government and thus delay the return of our 
hostages for an unacceptable period of 
time.
I would like to add that the real danger 
we face in foreign policy is my Republican 
opponent. While I certainly wouldnt say 
anything nasty about him myself, I have 
heard others call my racist opponent a dan
gerous war-monger who has dangerous pol
icies designed to promote a dangerous 
nuclear war with widespread human death 
and deformity. Of course, thats only one
Bob
Leighty
interpretation of my opponent and his dan
gerous policies.
A voice from the back of the group asked 
Carter if he would defeat Reagan in the 
election. Of course, Carter answered, Ill #whip his wrinkled ass.
Later yesterday aftemcxm,. Republican 
Reagan arrived in town to speak at'a dinner 
for upperclass male WASPs.
You know my friends, I think its time 
for us to turn back the clock, Reagan pro
claimed to a delighted audience. He pro
ceeded to give some ambiguous details of his 
folksy policies.
One of Reagans top priorities as presi
dent would be to establish a Counter Com
munism Committee (CCC) designed to 
produce uncontested U.S. military superior
ity and wipe Communism, Socialsim and 
Marxism off the face of the earth...and then 
some. Reagan cited his desire to support 
sadistic dictators and return us to the gocxl 
old days before America had any problems. 
Reagan also reinforced his support of the 
progressive Republican platform. We have 
wiped out evils like pollution and discrimi
nation against women, Reagan said, and 
now its time we forget these silly concerns 
and turn our attention to progress.
The Republican platform also recom
mends the elimination of the 55 mph speed 
limit, to which Reagan commented, It 
only saves energy and human lives; we dont 
need it. And if America has the technology 
to build gas guzzlers that go that fast, by 
golly, lets do it.
The campaign of Independent John And
erson was relatively quiet again yesterday. 
Anderson and his wife Keke had planned a 
tour of Pittsburgh by bus, but were forced to 
cancel due to a shortage in campaign funds. 
Ill win yet, Anderson vowed.
This morning in New York, CBS Even
ing News anchorman Walter Cronkite was 
preparing for his final full-scale election 
coverage. Walter appeared in Macysearly in 
the afternoon, sporting a stylish tweed jacket 
and signing autographs for hundreds of 
enthusiastic supjx>riers.
And thats the way it is, election day, 1980. 
Bob Leighty is a Junior majoring in Tech
nical Writing and Editing and is Editorial 
Assistant for The Tartan.
The Race in Congress
There are eight states; North Dakota, 
Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Okla
homa, Alaska, Florida, and Alabama; where 
the incumbant senator has either retired or 
was beaten in the primary. Because there is 
no incumbancy advantage in these races, 
they would seem like good places for the 
Republicans to pick up seats in their quest 
to control the Senate. But it appears that the 
G.O.P. will only break even, at best, in these 
states. In North Dakota, Republican Mark 
Andrews is the clear favorite to succeed Mil
ton J. Young, who retired a the oldest man 
in Congress.
The Connecticut race is an interesting 
one. It pits conservative James Buckley, 
brother of William F. Buckley and former 
Senator from New York, against the popu
lar Democratic representative from Grotoa 
Chris Dexld. Despite an early struggle, Dodd 
has emerged as the favorite in that race. 
Dem. Alan Dixon is favored over Republi
can ONeal to succeed retiring Adlai Steven
son in Illinois. Democrats are also expected 
to win in Alabama and Oklahoma. The 
Florida race, where Democratic incumbent 
Steve Stone was denied re-election, is now 
too close to call as is the Alaska race in which 
incumbent Democrat Mike Gravel was also 
denied re-nomination. Finally, as I wrote 
last week, I am predicting a victory for 
Republican Arlen Specter who has over
taken Pete Flaherty in the polls with more 
money and superior organization.
Bill Kapner is a senior majoring in Profes
sional Writing and History.
I4*\
"m 
Editor-in-Chief........................................Susan Borg I
Managing Editor...................................Doug Kirsop j
Business Manager.................................Karen Stevens t
News Editor...............................................Jim Balsom
Features Editor................................Renee Rosen feld
Entertainment Editor...............Richard Corel ick
Sports Editor............................................ Wes Seelev
Dossier Editor...........................................Lynn Epstein
Photography Editor ...........................Robert Zusman
Art Directors............................................ Craig Otto
Tom Weinkle I
Production Manager .....................................Bob Han
Editorial Assistant..................................Bob Leighty!
Associate News Editor....................Jeanne AbmayiJ
Copyright c 980 by The Tartan. The Editorial! 
Board reserves the right to withhold frofl'j 
publication any copy it deems unfit for public alio'1 [ 
Funded in part b\ the Student Government 
Cat negie-Mellon t'niveisil}, Pittsburg! 
Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offnes: Skibo ,*ll 
(112)>78-2111 Business Offices: Ski ho.>2. (112) 
2111.21 bout phone, (112) 578-2113.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

Letters
Chaos
Editor
In the midst of the confusion and the 
questions surrounding the present adminis
tration of the department of architecture, 
one fact remains crystal clear: the high 
number of the junior faculty leaving the 
department.
The students of the department of archi
tecture are very concerned about this abnor
mal exodus of the junior faculty. There are a 
number of reasons that seem to be contribut
ing to this loss of valued faculty. The main 
reasons apparent to the students are as fol
lows: 1 ) Disturbing changes in the proce
dures of the department. An example of this 
is that at a recent faculty meeting only the 
full time tenure track faculty could vote.
2) A new faculty member hired this fall 
was ranked as an associate professor with 
qualifications that appear to be no better 
than the qualifications of current faculty 
still at the assistant professor rank.
3) An increasingly high proportion of the 
faculty are part-time appointments with 
contracts of 1 semester or 1 year.
4) A relatively limited group of faculty 
seem to be in charge of critical committees 
and this group may not reflect the wider 
views and concerns of the faculty at large.
5) Committee conclusions and recomendadons seem to be given serious considera
tion only when these conclusions and 
recommendations reflect Mr. Sauers own 
biases. Some reports seem to have been 
ignored and some committees have been 
summarily disbanded.
These recent changes can only spell chaos 
for the future of the quality of the education 
of the students of architecture. Perhaps there 
is some explanation for these changes, if so, 
it has not been made known to the student 
body.
A Level IV Architecture Student
The Professional Choice?
Editor:
Recently, the students of the Depart
ment of Architecture here at CMU 
received a letter from President Cyert stat
ing his confidence in Department Head 
Louis Sauer and his request that the 
architecture students accept those 
changes which the administration deem 
necessary to ensure the standard of 
excellence in the Department of Archi
tecture. At this time, a progress report 
was also released by the administration of 
the Department of Architecture, 
i These documents have aroused con
cern among the architecture students as 
txnh notices intimate the possibility of 
altering the current professional B 
ARCH/M ARCH programs in favor of a 
4 year pre-professional program followed 
by a 2 year M ARCH program. As a con
cerned student, I would like to take this 
opportunity to strenuously advise both 
University and Departmental Adminis
trations to conscientiously survey the 
practitioners, theoreticians and critics of 
the Architectural profession of today.
Walter F. Wagnel, editor of the Archi
tectural Record, printed an editorial in 
the June issue of Architectural Record 
(1978), wherin he addressed the short
comings of the 4 and 2 years Architectural 
education. The editorial concerns a 
speech delivered by William Caudill (of 
Caudill, Rowlett, and Scott; Architects) 
at the ACSA National Convention two 
years ago last April. Mr. Caudill clearly 
states that the BFA-BS/M ARCH pro
grams of the 1960s have only glutted the 
profession with bright people who 
happen to be inadequate designers. In 
these programs, says Caudill, skills are 
not emphasized. Design methodology is
more related to management. Everyone is 
trying to find a method to take the place 
of a good designer. No one has. Some are 
still trying.
Further, Mr. Caudill urges universities 
to go back to the program which 
requires five years of sound design train
ing starting year one. He and his asso
ciates are looking for a few top flight 
designers.
It must be stressed that this is not the 
opinion of only one respected practioner, 
but that this viewpoint is shared by Wal
ter F. Wagner, Denise Scott Brown, Mas
ters such as Lou Kahn, and others. In 
addition, the national Architectural 
Accrediting Board is anticipating the 
return of the four day design emphasis 
exam to most states, instead of, as Jim 
Foley, former President of NAAB states:
 The two day test that any good liberal 
arts student can pass.
The Architecture Department and the 
University at large have enjoyed an 
impressive reputation for many years due 
to the design skill and competence of its 
undergraduates. Those of us who have 
gained by our attendance at this Univer
sity would not like to see this expensive 
and vital training dismissed by mis
guided design philosophies which are 
hopelessly outdated. Listed above are the 
opinions of the Architectoral profession. 
This student can only hope the self
claimed Professional Choice Univer
sity will heed its advice.
A concerned student
A Rusty Image
Editor
I am sure that many people have seen the 
rusty end of a heavy metal pipe which pro
trudes out of the newly seeded grass slope 
next to Morewood Avenue between Morewood Gardens and Mudge House. Over a 
year ago this area was excavated to extend a 
hot water main to Mudge House. This rusty 
pipe first appeared in the land fill used to 
cover the trench in which the water main 
was placed. I can remember seeing this pipe, 
which at that time protruded above the 
ground several inches, and believing that it 
should not belong there. I assumed that the 
pipe was just junk. It made sense to think 
that a pipe which made no connection to 
any valve or other pipe, and which was prec
ariously placed in the path of many frisbee 
and Saturday afternoon football players was 
an accident which the routine maintenance 
of the campus grounds would quickly 
remove.
As to contradict my simpleminded image 
of it, the pipe remained for months without 
any changes. Then something truly amaz
ing happened. At the start of the spring 
semester this year, the earth under the pipe 
was raked back more than a foot, and the 
ground around it, which had remained fal
low for nearly ayear, was seeded. The Pipe 
now protruded about two feet into the air, 
and the burlap which was placed over the 
new grass was tucked around the pipes 
base. Clearly the school must have some 
intendons for this rusty pipe.
The teleological tendency of mortals to 
find their God in the functioning of nature 
or of students to find their administration in 
the functioning of their campus pushed me 
to try to find the colleges present or 
intended purpose of the pipe. At first I could 
come up with only a few and mostly 
unlikely possible uses of this object. Since it 
does protude a substantial distance from the 
ground and does cast a good shadow, the 
pipe could be used as the gnomon of a sun 
dial. Although such a device could be very 
handy for the many commuters who use 
Morewood Avenue, a sun dial in cloudy 
Pittsburgh is not very practical. The resi
dents of Mudge could paint on the pipe 
announcements erf their occasional parries, 
but since a large portion of the student body 
does not frequently travel on Morewood
Avenue, this idea also seemed unpractical.
Finally, after seeing the jagged, eroded 
end of this pipe for nearly a year, I have 
decided what our campus administration 
has planned for this protrusion, and I am 
certain that the reader will have to agree 
with me that this purpose is the only reaso
nable one. It is intended as a monument of 
an accident, injury or maybe tragedy. Maybe 
when the snow of winter hides it slightly, 
someone sliding down the slope or running 
up the slope to dodge a snowball will trip on 
it. Maybe a frisbee player in the spring will 
fall on it as s(he) jumps to catch a frisbee as it 
just clears the crest of the hill. Maybe such 
injuries will be small, maybe large. The 
meaning of the pipe is clear, however. To 
the injured, the image of something large 
and rusty at their feet where soft gras is 
supposed to be found will remain as a mon
ument of the mind of our college 
administration.
Dale A. Miller 
Graduate Student 
Mathematics Dept.
Gee Youre Swell
Editor;
We are writing on behalf of the six CMU 
Kiltie Band percussionists who took the 
field at halftime on Parents Day, October 
25th, despite the inclement weather and 
muddy condiuons.
They were swell!
We applaud their courage, rythmical 
sinesse, and general splendor. The solo by 
John Snyder and John Szymanski was 
beyond words, believe you me. The other 
four to be commended on their performance 
are:
Chris Kretz 
Sandy Berger 
Allyson Hunter and 
Cyndi Lubon.
We remain,
The Six Percussionists
Constructive Criticism?
Editor
In the past week, the general manager of 
WRCT banned the playing of the song Bill 
Wilkinson on the air. This tune, by local 
artists Carsickness, condemns the Imperial 
Wizard of the Ku Klux Klan.
This action is an insult not only to CMU 
students, but to anyone who believes in the 
United States Constitution. The function of 
WRCT is to provide CMU with alternative 
radio--to act as an outlet for otherwise inac
cessible music and ideas. The U.S. Constitution allows for the fundamental human 
rights of freedom of speech and freedom of 
the press. WRCT not only fails to fulfill its 
intended function in this case, but it is 
breaking the law.
The song was banned because it has 
offended some person or persons. Presuma
bly these people and WRCT support the 
KKK, and cannot tolerate constructive criticism of a man who has made remarks such 
as,Segregation is the strength and founda
tion of our country.
At least one disc jockey has resigned from 
the station because of the ban. Others must 
also stand up for our right to hear legitimate 
music and legitimate political ideas- with
out censorship.
Scott Schaffer
80 Years of Living
Editor
Every so often my grandfather 
approaches me with his ideas about govern
ment and the economy, based on his 80 years 
of experience and opinions. When I received 
this letter I could not pass up the opportun
ity to have it published and ask for 
responses.
Dear Nan,
Some time ago on the television I saw a 
program in which the economist from your 
university was on the air. As I recall, this
economist is quite a celebrated gentleman, 
so I was vastly interested in what he had to 
say. If I remember correctly, they were talk
ing about the economy and inflation and 
among other things he said that he was in 
fav or of what the Federal Reserve was doing, 
that he was in favor of high interest rates, 
and the control of money. I have thought 
this over and I would like to talk to you 
about this. Let us assume that this gentle
man is correct, then I would like to know 
why in the past year when we have had 
interst rates going up and up and up even 
reaching as high as 20% all the time the 
inflation is going up and up. I know full 
well that theres an old economic rule that 
says that inflation is caused by too much 
money chasing too few' goods. I have been 
watching this for all my business life and I 
have never seen their prescription work. So I 
ask myself why dont we say instead of 
increasing interest rates why dont we just 
make more goods?
Ive thought a lot about this economic 
situation with this high inflation weve got, 
and it seems to me that we are never going to 
better ourselves until we take some drastic 
measures. I think weve got to get back to the 
basic and the fundamental theories that 
were used when this government of ours was 
formed. There is nothing in the constitution 
that says that this government is going to 
take care of everybody. There is something 
in the constitution that says that were going 
to have freedom. But do we have freedom 
today? It doesnt look like it to me. Our 
freedoms are being taken away from us each 
and every day. I do not think that were 
going to stop inflation unless we do some of 
the following things: One, we have to cut 
out a lot of this stupid government spend
ing, and I mean a very drastic cut. And when 
we cut down government to where it should 
be-I remember the old saying that the best 
governed is the least govemed-when we get 
this government cut down to size, then we 
have to make a substantial decrease in taxa
tion, and leave the money with the people 
who earn it. Also you cannot pay people for 
doing nothing, and were doing an awful lot 
of that today. Weve got to get people back to 
work and in order to do that, we have to have 
an economic climate that is favorable to bus
iness. We have got to get the government off 
our backs. We have to re-establish freedom. 
We have to get rid of a lot of our rules and 
regulations; were regulated to death. The 
theories that this economics professor at 
your university have are the same theories 
that permeate the entire United States 
government.
I dont know whether or not you take 
economics, and if you do, I would like to 
make a suggestion. Id like you to propose 
some erf the suggestions I have made to this\ 
economist and see what he has to say. Of 
course I dont want you to jeapardjze your 
position, because you well remember that 
when I was in college I flunked economics 
for the very simple reason that I violendy 
disagreed with the economics professor. So 
my dear, dont take the chance if you think 
youre going to get hurt by it. But knowing 
you as I do, I almost think you might take 
that chance. And if for any reason you dont 
take economics do you think it might be 
possible to get this letter to you published in 
the paper? Now thats some suggestion 
toots, but if it did take place Id be interested 
to know what happened. I dont suppose it 
will be long before well be seeing you here 
at Thanksgiving time, and needless to say I 
am looking forward to that So for now 
honey Im going to sign off.
Lots of Love, 
Grandpa
-------------------Letter Policy------------------
A letter intended few publication must b< 
signed and include the writers address an 
phone number for verification. Names wil 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan 
reserved the right to condense or reject any 
letter.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanNovember 4, 1980
Student voters polled, results prove inconclusive
Spring Semester, 1981
continued from page 1
registered for this election. Higher apathy 
on the part of voters uncommitted to the two 
major parties is a detrimental factor to the 
John Anderson campaign.
Who will win? Coming into the last week 
of the campaign, indications of the results 
are still what they have been throughout the 
electiona toss-up. Jimmy Carter received 
18 total votes. Six of these votes are not quali
fied because the respondent either was not 
registered or did not intend to vote. Ronald 
Reagan received 17 votes of which four were 
unqualified. John Anderson got a total of
ten qualified votes out of 15 cast for him. Ed 
Clark, the Libertarian candidate, got one 
unqualified vote. Consumer Party candi
date Barry Commoner is guaranteed at least 
one CMU vote and some nostalgia was 
expressed by one respondent who preferred
Registration scheduled for November 12, 13
Registration for the Spring Semesterl981 
has been scheduled for November 12 and 13, 
1980. All students, graduate and undergrad
uate, are expected to register at this time if 
they wish to be on the rolls for the Spring 
Semester. Those not returning for reasons 
other than graduation, please file a withdra
wal form (clearly marked for Spring 1981) 
with their department. Students who are 
studying off campus, or for some other rea
son cannot register on November 12 or 13, 
ask your advisor to process a registration for 
you or call the Registrars Office for special 
instructions. Freshmen in CTT and MCS 
will receive separate registration instruc
tions from Dean Kail and will not register at 
this time.
The Class Schedule booklet will be availa
ble after November 3, at the Public Rela
tions Office, Baker Hall 160, and the 
Information Desk in Skibo. The Class Sche
dule contains a list of the courses which will 
be offered next semester, the schedule and 
classrooms for each, the instructors names, 
and complete instructions for registration. 
Please obtain one and carefully read and 
follow the instructions contained in it.
This year again a single registration form 
called the Registration and Demographic 
Data Document (R3D) will be used for regis
tration. It will provide an additional oppor
tunity for you to review and update the 
demographic information on file for you 
and provide a form on which to list and have 
approved your program for the coming
semester. In short the procedure will be:
1. Pick-up your R3D Form from your 
department and correct the demographic 
information. (Forms for H&SS freshmen 
and sophomores will be available in the 
H&SS Advising Center).
2. Meet with your advisor and have a sche
dule with alternates approved.
3. Between 9:30AM and 4:00PM on 
November 12 or 13 go to each department 
teaching the courses in which you wish to 
register to obtain registration approval.
4. After obtaining all approvals, return 
the R3D Form to your department. You 
keep the last (yellow) copy.
Gerald Ford but who would not show up at 
the polls to write him in. Of the qualified 
votes cast (people who are registered and 
indicated they would vote), Reagan earned 
13, Carter 12, Anderson 10, and Commoner 
1. The election seems to be just as much in 
the hands of those who stay home as those 
who vote.
Political analysts agree that the cross-over 
vote is crucial. The Tartan poll indicates 
that voting will be predominantly along 
party lines. Reagan received two votes from 
registered Democrats, but Carter was able to 
attract two votes of his own from the GOP. 
The vote for Barry Commoner came from a 
registered Republican. Two Republicans 
and three Democrats planned to vote for 
Anderson.
In the race for the Independent vote, John 
Anderson won with nine, Reagan picked up 
seven, Carter got six, and Ed Clark one. One 
Independent was undecided as of last 
Thursday.
Voters seem to be unaware of a Senate 
contest. Many respondents were not sure 
who the candidates were (Is that the one 
with Flaherty and Specter?) or they just did 
not care. Of the 32 Pennsylvania voters, 14 
preferred Democrat Pete Flaherty, former 
mayor of Pittsburgh. Arlen Specter, Phila
delphia District Attorney, attracted eight 
votes. Flahertys strong edge is probably due 
to a high Western Pennsylvania CMU bias* 
The Senate race is seen as a regional battle 
between the East and West, with crossover 
voting expected to make the difference. The 
edge Democrats hold over Republicans in 
the state is expected to help Flaherty, while 
Specter hopes to be the favorite son of the 
greater number of eastern Pennsylvanians.
The Tartan poll indicates four crossovers 
from the west for Specter. Flaherty was able
continued on page 5

---------------------------------------------------

November 4, 1980The TartanPage 5
New regulations for student loans effective January 81
FINANCIAL AID UPDATE - NEW
pholobyRRe ryheRby ,Zob 
lRph,oysZbr
On October 3, 1980, the Education
Amendments of 1980 which affect the Gua
ranteed Student Loan Program became law. 
All of the new GSL provisions become effec
tive January' 1, 1981. They are as follows:
1. Maximum annual loan amounts per 
academic year are $2500 for dependent 
undergraduates, $3000 for independent 
undergraduates, and $5000 for graduates.
2. Aggregate loan amounts for dependent 
undergraduate students may not exceed 
$12,500. Independent undergraduate stu
dents may borrow up to $15,000 and gradu
ate students may borrow up to $25,000 
(including loans obtained at the undergrad
uate level).
3. For any first-time borrower (i.e. does 
not have an outstanding balance of princi
pal or interest on a GSL) obtaining a loan 
under the GSLP which covers periods of 
instruction beginning on or after January' 1, 
1981, the interest rate shall be 9 percent. 
When the annual average rate of 91-day 
Treasury bill rates is 9 percent or less for 12 
consecutive months, the 9 percent rate is 
reduced to 8 percent for first-time borrowers 
after that date. Student borrowers with out
standing loans will still have a maximum 
interest rate of 7 percent on any additional 
loans.
4. For the loans subject to the 8 or 9 per
cent interest rate, the grace period has been 
reduced to a fixed 6 month period. Borrow
ers with 7 percent interest loans will con
tinue to have the 9-12 month grace period.
5. The amendments provide for 4 new 
statutory deferements.
PARENT LOAN PROGRAM 
A loan program to parents for dependent 
undergraduate students is established. The 
maximum amount a parent may borrow for 
any one student in any academic year is 
$3000. The aggregate loan limit for each 
dependent student is $15,000. Repayment 
and interest begin within 60 days after dis
bursement. Details have not been finalized 
yet regarding application procedures for the
parent loan program.
The Financial Aid Office recommends that 
any student enrolled on at least a half-time 
basis for 80-81, who has not previously bor
rowed under the GSL program, consider 
filing a loan application for the current aca
demic year 9/80-5/81, in order to take advan
tage of the 7 percent interest rate. Please 
contact the Financial Aid Office if you 
should have any question.
NA TIONAL DIRECT STUDENT LOAN 
FUNDS STILL AVAILABLE 
Any student interested in obtaining a 
National Direct Student Loan or a possible 
increase in his/her current NDSL award, 
please contact the Financial Aid Office 
immediately.
Fairless lectures scheduled
Koppers Chmn. Byrom, UA W pres Fraser to speak here
Fletcher L. Byrom, chairman of the board 
of Koppers Company, Inc., and Douglas A. 
Fraser, president of the United Autoworkers 
Union will speak next Tuesday, November 
11, at the Benjamin F. Fairless Lectures. The 
topic of their discussion is Failing Indus
tries: The Role of the Government.
Byrom and Fraser will discuss their views 
on federal involvement with corporations 
that are in financial diffulty. Each will speak 
for 30 minutes, and a question and answer 
session will follow.
Byrom is a trustee of Camegie-Mellon 
University and a member of the citys Eco
nomic Development Commission. Fraser 
was recently named to the board of directors 
of the Chrysler Corporation, making him 
the first labor representative to be on the 
board of a U.S. corporation.
The Benjamin F. Fairless Memorial Lec
tures, established in honor of the former 
chairman of U.S. Steel, began in 1963. Spon
sored by the Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration, the lectures have focused 
on various aspects of business and public 
administration.
The lectures are free and open to the pubCarter & Reagan 
campaign here
continued from page 1 
despite the fact that they were the same 
comments from his basic campaign 
speeches since summer.
Carter campaign staffers were unsure 
how the President would do in Allegheny 
County today, saying that the election was 
too close to make a prediction. Reagan 
workers were much more optimistic. The 
Chairman of the Allegheny County 
Republican committee suited confidently 
that Reagan could carry the county by 
25,000 votes and the state by 100,000.
Poll results
continued from page 4
to attract one eastern vote. Again, with the 
predominance of western Pennsylvania stu
dents at CMU, more instances of western to 
eastern defection would occur.
What does it all mean? Probably a long 
night before a television set for those inter
ested in knowing who won what on Elec
tion Night 80. Unfortunately, The Tartan 
can only claim one similarity with the pro
fessional pollsters, and that is that our 
results, reflecting the attitudes of an 
unhappy electorate, are as inconclusive as 
theirs are. Hie choice, in the words of one 
CMU student, is one giving us a chance to 
elect the best of the worst.
lie. Tickets are available at the public rela
tions office (578-2900), and reservations 
must be made in advance. The full text of 
the lectures will be published in book form 
early next year.
For a good 
design, call 
x2828
2828 will get you Initial Graphics, a new design 
service run by students in conjunction with the design department. If you need posters, 
brochures, calligraphy, advertisements, or other graphic materials, try us. We will put you m touch with experienced, enthusiastic design 
students. Contact us in the design department office, third floor, Baker Hall, or call.
FLETCHER L. BYROM
....and ask for Karen
Sauereles
Were looking for a top microelectronics engineer and weve got
$100,000,000 to spend.
Our Microelectronics Program at General Electric has immediate career openings for top electrical engineering BS and MS graduates.
We're committed to joining the leaders in the microelectronics industry, and as part oi that program, we're spending $ 100 million to build an ultra sophisticated new GE Microelectronics Center at Research Triangle Park, North Care Una.
Right now, were looking for key people to till positions at the Center as well as at other General Electric microelectronics facilities.
Technical recruiters will be on campus Monday and Tuesday, November 10-11, to conduct interviews. Contact your campus Placement Office for the exact time and place 
Specific microelectronics openings at General Electric exist in: ? Integrated Circuit Design ? VLSI Device Structure Design ? VLSI Process Development ? Integrated Circuit 
Application Engineering 0 Integrated System Architecture ? Integrated Circuit Software Design
Advanced Microelectronics Operations 
General Electric
An Equal Opportunity Employer M'F

---------------------------------------------------

Student Senate 
ELECTIONS
November 19 & 20 
9:00 AM  9:00 PM
Graduate and UndergraduateSeats Available:
Undergraduate GraduateCIT 5 seats 3 seats
MCS 3 1
CFA 3 1
H&SS 1 1SUPA 0 1GSIA 0 1
Petitions available at Skibo Information Desk. 
Return by 5:00 PM November 11, 1980.
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

______________________________________________________ November 4, 1980The TartanPage 7
Sauer releases progress report on architecture dept.
continued from page I
standards and procedures with respect to 
faculty. Cyert stressed the objective of Archi
tecture, as in the enitire University, as excel
lence. He concluded by urging students 
and faculty to work closely with Sauer.
In an effort to formalize channels of com
munication with the Administration, stu-Two assaulted, CMU cautions
There was an assault on a female student 
recently while she was returning to the cam
pus and a week ago there was a rape in the 
Craig Street area; the victim was not a 
Camegie-Mellon student. The Pittsburgh 
Police believe that the perpetrator of these 
acts may still be in the area.
We urge that campus residents, particu
larly female students, take care this weekend 
not to go out alone and to use the escort 
service as appropriate. If walking off cam
pus, stay in well-lighted areas and travel 
with another person if possible.
AAA director
by Lori Zuti
Ben Fischer, currently the director of the 
American Arbitration Association, will be 
teaching a new and innovative course next 
semester entitled The Theory and Practice 
of Labor-Management Relations with 
David Bloom.
Fischer feels that it is almost impossible 
for a student to get an exposure to the reali
ties of labor-management relations and is 
teaching the course because he has an inter
est in the implications and significance of 
what he has done.
According to Bloom, This course will 
marry the practice of labor and the theory of 
laborand attempt to synthesize the knowldents of the department have set up an 
Architecture Student Government Organi
zation. The organization is intended to serve 
as the representative body for the students. 
Representatives from each Design Sequence 
Level and the Masters Program have been 
elected. Ratification of the organizations 
constitution is expected this week.
In an interview with The Tartan, Sauer 
identified the lack of a formal student organ
ization as the primary cause for communica
tion break downs between his 
administration and students over the past 
year. The University administration, 
including Dean of Student Affairs, Earle 
Swank, have shown strong support for the 
newly formed student organization.
The first official action of the students 
was taken by the Student Information Com
mittee. The committee, under the leadership
of Joan Larson, chairperson, met with 
Sauer to discuss the Technology Program 
and the Curriculum. At that time, Sauer 
indicated that he had been advised to dropto teach here
edge of labor-management relations.
For more than 25 years, Ben Fischer was 
the United Steel Workers of Americas 
Chief Representative in the Unions arbitra
tion activities, and most recently the Chief 
Assistant to the President of the Union.
The course will be offered next semester 
and is open to all divisions of the school. 
The course will have little emphasis on out
side work and will include lectures from 
three or four leading practitioners in the 
area, mock arbitrations, and mock collective 
bargaining.
All interested students should contact 
David Bloom or stop by the SUPA office.
the Technology III course this semester. Its 
not that no one was here to fill the Tech III 
courses, I was advised by the Technology 
Sequence Committee not to give Tech III, 
expressed Sauer. Technology III is a Fourth 
Level, two semester course, required for gra
duation. The absence of the course in this 
semesters course offerings has been one of 
several curriculum change concerns 
expressed by students in recent weeks. Sauer 
stressed his desire to meet with Level IV 
students prior to registration on November 
12th, to discuss faculty as well as course 
offerings for the Technology HI program.
At the meeting with the Student Informa
tion Committee, Sauer also explained that 
he was unaware that student interest in 
maintaining a darkroom for the department 
existed. At this point the fate of a darkroom 
is on ice, according to Sauer. The cancel
lation of the departments photography 
course and the dismanding of its darkroom 
has been a major concern for students. Talks
between Sauer and the Committee are 
expected to continue.
A decision was reached by a faculty com
mittee apointed to consider the appoint
ment of Raymond (Bud) Mall, Shop 
Attendant to a Special Faculty position. A 
dispute arose last spring between Mall and 
the departments administration over Malis 
status and responsibilities after Mall 
requested the appointment as a result of a 
recommendation by the Senior Faculty of 
the Department. The five-member commit
tee unanimously recommended that Ray
mond Mall be appointed to a three-year 
term as Assistant Professor in the depart
ment of Architecture retroactive to the 
beginning of academic year 1980-81 with 
review in the third year and with benefits 
and salary approprioate to his academic 
degree and his long experience in this 
department. The final decision regarding 
the Mall case in pending Administrative 
action.Tartan news staff meetings are
every Monday at 8 PM in room 50, Skibo
The Pittsburgh Psychoanalytic Center Inc. offers students, 
graduate students, faculty and all university staff and their child
ren, the opportunity for evaluation for insight-oriented psychother
apy at $25.00 per evaluation session. Subsequent therapy, if 
appropriate, is offered on a sliding fee scale.
FOR APPOINTMENT CALL 
Mrs. Brown, 661 -2300 
Medical Center East Building 
211 North Whitfield Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15201
work-study students needed 
for tutoring c.m.u. students
Why have a greasy food service 
job or a boring paperwork job 
when you can set your own hours 
and be a Free Academic Student 
Tutor?!
To earn $3.50 an hour as a 
tutor, you must have an A or a B 
in the courses you wish to tutor. 
No more QPA requirements!
For more details, stop by Peer 
Help, 150 Baker Hall, and see 
Erica or Dave or call 578-2904.

---------------------------------------------------

An evening of dining and dancing
Now's your chance to wear your dress clothes, and 
dance to one of Pittsburgh's finest bands, ON BROAD
WAY. The entire evening will be catered by CHEF 
PAUL'S OF WHITE OAK. Skibo Information Desk is 
selling the tickets for this Winter Semi Formal on Friday 
December 5th. Eight dollars a couple. You may also 
reserve a table for you and your friends.
Sponsored by Student Dormitory Council
It will be a different evening for a change.

---------------------------------------------------

by Dena Santoro 
Victoria Fyodorova, an actress, formerly 
of Russia, spoke at CMU AB Lecture last 
Wednesday night. Miss Fyodorova is the 
daughter of a famous Russian film actress 
^nd an American Naval Officer. Actors in 
Russia are trained very well, according to 
Miss Fyodorova. Almost all are trained 
under the directin of teachers of the Stanis
lavsky school of method acting. Miss 
Fyodorova was trained by a couple who had 
studied under Stanislavsky himself. These 
schools, called Institutes, are government 
J operated, and entrance into them is very 
competitive. Miss Fyodorova recalled that 
the day of her screen test, 365 other women 
were there to audition for one available posion. The Institute to which Miss Fyodorova 
_ was accepted was the Institute of CinematoSgraphy in Moscow. There she studied art, 
I music, history, and acting classes in dance, 
| movement and voice. The program runs 
four years (similar to college in America), 
t complete with fourth year internships in 
| film-making for the highly-qualified stuII dent. Graduation for Miss Fyodorovas 
|| class was a small event - only 18 students (5 
I; were asked to leave) finished their studies at
 the Institute.
B After graduation, they have to put you in
this or that studio on a permanent basis, 
unlike jhe American Good Luck method...and the persona of superstar does not 
exist in the U.S.S.R. as it does in this coun
try. Victoria defines a well-known actor as 
one who the people like, and will go to 
see, but they have no other tide than 
actor. Famous actors in the U.S.S.R. are 
able to have certain privileges that most citi
zens do not enjoy, such as an extra 10 square 
meters of living space (in large cities, each 
person is allotted 9 square meters, so an 
extra 10 is a luxury). One is able to buy a car 
without standing in line, buy a country 
house, and has more access to clothes and 
make-up from the underground market. 
Victoria told of many occasions when her 
mother was able to buy good meat only 
because the butcher enjoyed her films. Victo
ria commented that fashion in the U.S.S.R. 
is ten years back, and if one finds a nice 
dress or pair of jeans, they are willing to 
pay for them...black market, of course. Vic
toria noted that there are no scandal sheets 
about the Soviet film actors as there are here. 
In the U.S.S.R. only one magazine, The 
Soviet Screen, exists, and it is stricdy profes
sional. It concerns only who is in what 
film, never what they are doing, who they 
married, etc.
Television in the Soviet Union is much
different than in this country, both in pro
duction and programming. Miss Fyodorova 
comments that it took her ^ree months to 
complete shooting for a one hour long TV 
movie there, while an episode of Medical 
Center she participated in here took one 
weekit was also an hour long. I couldnt 
believe ityou just have to go and do it in 
America...Ai for programming, well, soap 
opera fans here would be particularly hard 
hit in the U.S.S.R.! Like in the U.S., there 
are three major networks, and an educa
tional network, but the only programs avail
able are the news, health and exercise, ballet, 
selected movies, and concerts. Our concept 
of the TV show hardly exists in the Soviet 
Union. Also, there is no TV at all between 
the hours of of 12 noon and 4 PM.
Film in the U.S.S.R. has few variauons in 
subject matter. According to Miss Fyodor
ova, they "just cant drop the subject of the 
War, and military movies are quite com
mon. Also a popular subject is the worker 
romance (they can never just fall in love, 
they have to be working). There is zero 
pornography in the U.S.S.R.  SOME
TIMES they are allowed to kiss but thats 
it. Once in a while, there are films made on 
alcohol abusedocumentaries on alcohol
ics trying to recover, apparently because
there is a very high percentage of heavy 
drinkers in the Soviet Union. Said Miss 
Fyodorova: I dont know who doesnt 
drink in Russia. And, the stores are only 
open from 11 to 7, so if you run out of spirits, 
then you're in trouble!
Victoria was very complimentary about 
America and Americans. She said the big
gest transition was adjusting to How much 
we have here. American people, according 
to Victoria, are much like the Russians, 
more so than the Europeans, and when an 
American visits the U.S.S.R., he is treated 
more warmly than if a French or English 
citizen would be. According to Victoria, 
American lifethe life of its mass 
populationis similar to Russian life...weddings are big, people get very drunk 
and fight, there are sports celebrities, sing
ing groups, and comedians. Alcohol use is 
prevalent, but, unlike America, drug use is 
not. There were reports of drug use, but 
very rare...the attitude being nothingcan 
be better than vodka...Another thing not 
found in Russia, Miss Fyodorova reports, 
are slums. In Moscow...there are very little 
run down area...like Harlem or the South 
Bronx.... There is an attempt to put peo
ple in some decent condition by the 
government.
Museum Director Makes Major Appointments for Carnegie
Two major appointments to the staff of 
I the Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute, were 
recently announced by Museum Director 
| John R. Lane: Oswaldo Rodriguez y Roque 
as Curator of Fine Arts and Gene Baro as 
Adjunct Curator of Contemporary Art.
Oswaldo Rodriguez, who is expected to 
|join the Museum of Art January 1, is cur
rently the Assistant Museum Educator, 
Department of Public Education at The 
Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York. 
He was bom in Havana, Cuba and came to 
the United States in 1962. He attended Yale 
University where he received his B.A. cum 
laude and an M.A. in Art History. He had 
teaching experience there and, as National 
Endowment for the Humanitites Museum 
Fellow, served from 1973 to 1975 on the staff 
}f the Yale Universtity Art Gallery. Among 
j^)ther projects at the Gallery, he participated 
in the preparation of the major Bicentennial 
exhibition, American Art 1750-1800: 
[Towards Independence, which was seen in 
New Haven and at the Victoria and Albert 
Museum in London. From 1976 to 1978 
Rodriguez was first J. Clawson Mills Fellow 
in the Department of American Paintings 
*nd Sculpture at the Metropolitan. From 
1978-1980 he was Reasearch Associate at the
Metropolitan and engaged in writing the 
soon-to-be published catalogue of the muse
ums collection of American paintings, and 
working on the just-opened reinstallation of 
the American Wing.
Dr. Lane, in annnouncing Rodriguezs 
appointment, said, I expect Oswaldo 
Rodriguez will make a most significant con
tribution to the Museum of Art. His respon
sibilities will include supervision of the staff 
of the Section of Fine Arts and the entire 
collection of paintings, sculpture, watercolors, prints, and drawings. Our very impor
tant collection of American art will present 
special challenges and opportunities for 
him, and I know we can count on his energy 
and expertise to see that his aspect of the 
museums holdings will become an even 
more valuable resource through new 
research, publicadon, exhibitions, and 
acquisitions.
Gene Baro, a former Director of the Cor
coran Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C., was 
educated at the Universtiy of Florida and 
taught arts and humanities at that institu
tion and at Bennington College, Vermont. 
During the 1960s he lived abroad and served 
as an American specialist lecturing at var
ious European universities under theauspices of United States government agencies. 
Concurrently he was criuc and correspndent 
for such periodicals as Art in America, Art 
International, and Studio International. In 
recent years Baro has served as visidng lec
turer in the combined graduate program in 
the history of art at W'illiams College and 
Sterling and Francine Clark Art Insutute, 
Williamstowrn, Massachusetts. He also 
serves as Consultative Curator of Prints and 
Drawings at The Brooklyn Museum.
Baro has organized more than 150 exhibi
tions for museums in American and 
Europe, including the Corcoran Gallerys 
33rd and 34th Biennials of American 
Paindng, 30 Years of American Print 
making at The Brooklyn Museum, Transatlandc Graphics at the Museum of 
Modem Art in Belgrade, Bridsh Sculpture 
of the 60s at the Insutute of Contemporary 
Art in London, and the massive Bicenten
nial exhibidon, America on Stage: 200 
Years of Performing Arts, at the Kennedy 
Center in Washington, D.C Last year Baro 
organized the United States exhibition at the 
Sao Paulo Biennale, he is the author of 
numerous articles, catalogues, and studies 
mainly in the field of twentieth century art, 
including The Drawings of Claes Oldenberg and Louise Nenelson: the Printsa 
Catalogue Raisonne.
Dr. Lane commented, Gene Baro has a 
strong and wide-ranging interest in emerg
ing art of quality. He will be travelling 
nationally and intemauonally on behalf of 
the Museum of Art to keep abreast of con
temporary developments. He will also be 
taking a serious interest in artists working in 
Pittsburgh and the Western Pennsylvania 
region. I am confident that his efforts will 
result in a great deal of ne\v and highly 
interesting acdvity in both contemporary' 
exhibidons and acquisidons. Lane also 
named Baro as the Curator of the 1982 International Exhibidon and said that the format 
for that project will be some 150 to 200 
works by 30 to 40 ardsts chosen from around 
the world. He noted that Baro was already 
engaged in orgainizeing twelve new exhibi
tions for the Museum of Art in 1981, effec
tively doubling the exhibition program for 
contemporary art there, and that Baro had 
installed the major fall exhibidon, Contructivism and the Geometric Trad mon, 
and organized the complementry exhibi
don, Richard Anuskiewicz: Prints and 
Muhiples 1964-1980.
features. ________________________
Victoria Fyodorova: the emotional story of a Russian Actress

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanNovember 4, 1980
CMU students perform Nuts and Bolts this Fri.
by Jim Jamieson
The Footlight Dinner Theatre of the Old 
Allegheny (next to Heinz Hall) recently 
presented Touring Company, a lively musi
cal review featuring four CMU students. 
The cast sang and danced to many popular 
songs about states and places as they toured 
the country.
The show starred musical theater sopho
mores Beth Caton, Dick Scanlon, John 
McDaniel and Claudia Benack, a recent 
voice graduate. McDaniel was not only a 
member of the cast; he was also the arranger 
and director of the show. The members of 
the cast have both community and profes
sional theater experience. David Gains, also 
a CMU student, was the shows piano 
accompanist.
This lively and wholesome review relied 
on the youthful spirit and experienced vocal 
talents of the performers more so than their 
dancing abilities. Yet the singing and litde 
bit of dancing were more than enough to get 
the audience involved with the music.
The first act began with a medley of songs 
about performing and show business, start
ing briskly with The Glamorous 
Life,Applause, Applause, and Theres 
No Business Like Show Business. The 
main part of the first act consisted of songs 
devoted to places the Touring Company 
traveled to. After a sprighdy version of 
Plenty of Pennsylvania, Claudia and 
Beths duet of Ohio was raised above the 
songs cutesy lyrics by the beautiful blend
ing of their fine soprano voices. A peppy 
version of Meet Me in St. Louis by Dick 
and Beth preceeded Claudias stunning 
Moonlight on Vermont. Claudia Benack
was at her best when her clear, pure voice 
flowed off the stage and out to an eager 
audience.
After a medley of California songs was a 
seductive rendition of Moon Over Miami 
by John and Claudia. Finally, a well choreo
graphed On the 21st Century by the com
pany closed the first act. Besides the good 
singing, the impromptu dialogue between 
members created a friendly atmosphere. The 
diversity of songs and the vitality of the cast 
helped while away the time as they per
formed forty-two songs in two hours.
Act Two was dedicated entirely to songs 
about New York City. To warm up the 
audience, John and Beth serrenaded 
Autumn in New York. Then Dick livened 
things up with Another Hundred People, 
an energetic song from the Broadway show, 
Company.
^2nd Street and Claudias West End 
Avenue were also impeccably performed. 
Johns stunning version of New York, 
New York moved the audience to applause 
because of his dancing abilities and fine 
voice. It was a shame that his energetic style 
was not displayed more in the show. Johns 
number was followed by the company 
doing a medley of eight songs about Broad
way that included Lullaby of Broadway, a 
well choreographed Broadway Rhythm 
and Broadwav Melodv.
The closing number was Its All Up To 
Me, written by John McDaniel and per
formed by the whole cast. It was a lively, 
strong, and optimistic number that was a 
fitting ending for Touring Companys 
wholesome, all-American review.
Dont Forget
Today is Election Day
VOTE
Successful Careers Don't Just Happen
At the Institute for Paralegal Training we have prepared over 4,000 college graduates for careers in law, business and finance. After just three months of intensive training, we will place you in a stimulating and challenging position that offers professional growth and expanding career opportunities. As a Legal Assistant you will do work traditionally performed by attorneys and other professionals in law firms, corporations, banks, government agencies and insurance companies. Furthermore, you will earn graduate credit towards a Master of Arts in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law for all course work completed at The Institute.
We are regarded as the nations finest and most prestigious program for training legal specialists for law firms, business and finance. But, as important as our academic quality is our placement result. The Institutes placement service will find you a job in the city of your choice. If not, you will be eligible for a substantial tuition refund.
If you are a senior in high academic standing and looking for the most practical way to begin your career, contact your Placement Office for an interview with our representative.
We will visit your campus on: Wednesday, December 3
The
Institute
for
Paralegal
Training
236 South 17th Street 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 
(215) 732-6600
(Operated by Para-Legal. Inc )Approved by The American Bar Association
Programs Earn Full Credit Toward M.A. in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law.
by Kathy Krummert
Remember when dances were the big 
social event of the weekend, the place to 
meet people, to meet someone? And then 
somehow, time rushed by, college life set in, 
and dances became passe....Why? Dances 
were less available, outside of high school 
stomping grounds, flashy discos, and 
expensive clubs, and many people felt they 
had outgrown such activities.
These are excuses no longer. Dancing and 
listening to music are hardly juvenile activi
ties, and music (quite a variety of it, in fact) is 
being brought to you free of charge by AB, 
Residence Life, and SDC. COMMON 
GROUNDS grand opening Nuts and 
Bolts party is this Friday, November 7, at 
Morewood Gardens, to bring back the good 
times and anticipation that dances used to 
cause in the old days. And something spe
cial is planned to stir that anticipation...
Upon entering the party, the visitor will 
be gifted with a small piece of mechanical 
metala bolt if you are male and a nut if 
you are female. Of the hundreds of nuts and 
bolts that will be distributed, 25 of the bolts 
will fit exactly into 25 of the nuts25 pairs. 
These 25 couples must find each other 
through the process of elimination. And 
what reward will be given for such effort? A 
lot of new acquaintances and possibly a $50 
first prizethe $50 to be split by the first 
couple to match their mechanical wares. For 
the remaining 24 couples, a total of 48 
album gift certificates to a local record mart 
will be awarded.
Music will begin at 9:30 p.m. with 
Toiz, a hot new Pittsburgh dance band. 
Free refreshments and munchies will be 
served. For a bit of the ol Friday night dance 
thrill, stop by COMMON GROUNDS this 
week.
What is Tech House?
by Maureen Brennan
You see what appear to be average CMU 
students coming and going there. You hear 
murmurings of some religious affiliations, 
but youre certain it is a cold house. You 
seem to recall some rumor of annual St 
Patricks Day Parties.
You pass that old brown house next to 
Donner and wonder just what Tech 
House is all about; who owns it, and how 
do you get to live there?
Until 1963, Tech House was part of Mar
garet Morrison College. In the days of home 
economics majors, it served as a testing 
groundevery female lived there for a por
tion of her senior year and was subsequendy 
evaluated on her homemaking abilities.
When Margaret Morrison College was 
absorbed by CMU, Fr. Philip Walsh 
requested that Tech House become housing 
for Catholic students; it was intended to 
serve as a base for the Camegie-Mellon com
munity involved with The Oratorythe 
Catholic parish comprised of Chatham, 
Carlow, Pitt and CMU.

In 1976, Fr. Walsh left Pittsburgh, and 
relations with The Oratory loosened, Pres
ently all those living at Tech House are 
Catholic, and while they enjoy close rela
tions with the university parish, there is no 
longer any direct affiliation.
At its institution, Tech House was com
pletely male. It wasnt until five years ago 
that the first female moved in. Presendy 
eight students, four females and four males, 
share the houses six bedrooms, three 
bathrooms, dining room and two living 
rooms. They operate on a cooperative basis, 
rotating all cooking and cleaning responsi
bilities. While still a part of campus hous
ing, occupancy is similar to the Roselawn 
housesits residents choose those who wilL 
move in each year.
Joann Yokel, a second year resident, says 
Tech House is like a> big familyliving 
together we share a lot of ourselves. Every 
new group brings changes, but those who 
leave will always feel they belong.
ENGINEERS
Amoco Production Company, one of the
Leading Oil and Gas Producers in the U.S.,seeks innovative and aggressive engineers toexpand its current level of activity. Amoco
will be recruiting here on
See your placement office to schedule aninterview.
Positions available for B.S. candidates in engineering in the following aieas: Drilling
 Facfities
Production Operations  Reservoir
Locations available in Louisiana in the 
following areas:
 Lafayette  Lake Charles 
New Orleans
Any questions 
should be addressed to:
G. Max Richards P.O. Box 50879 
New Orleans, Louisiana 70150 (504) 586-6877
We Are An Equal Opportunity Employer
-----*

---------------------------------------------------

November 4, 1980The TartanPage 11
Could this be Switzerland?
by John Cooper
Differential equations propagate across 
the blackboard as the professor drones on in 
what must be a foreign language. My mind 
begins to wander and my eyes drift out the 
** window. Beautiful morning! The sun peer
ing in over the mountains, shimmering off 
the lake and the clouds...Wait a minute! 
What mountains? Thats not Schenley 
Park. Those are the Alps and Lake Geneva. 
And that prof really is speaking a foreign 
language! WTiats going on here?
This is an everyday experience of the stu
dents participating in the exchange pro
gram between C-MU and the Swiss Federal 
Poly technical Institute (Ecole Polytech.* nique Federale-EPF) of Lausanne, Switzer
land. This unique program enables selected
C.I.T./M.C.S. students to spend their junior 
year in an equivalent engineering or science 
program taught in the French language. 
The participants then return to complete 
their studies as a senior and graduate at the 
same time as their classmates.
The EPF is situated on the shores of Lake 
Geneva, nestled amid the French and Swiss 
Alps. Due to its location in the French speaking region of Switzerland, the lan
guage of instruction is French. Past 
participants in the program have found 
learning the language much easier then 
expected once immersed in the environ
ment. Plus, in some courses the required 
texts are in English and most professors are 
more than willing to practice their com
mand of our language. Despite this predom
inance of English as a universally accepted
encouraged to take advantage of this unique 
opportunity to improve their French.
The program, now in its sixth year and 
under the coordination of Dr. Charles L. 
Bauer, M.M.S., involves the annual 
exchange of up to ten students on the part of 
each school. Participants are usually 
selected at the end of their freshman year 
after submitting appropriate applications. 
Basic requirements include approximately a 
3.0 average, a minimum requirement of 
French before departure and above all, a 
desire to experience. The ten or eleven 
months normally spent by these C-MU stu
dents abroad usually allow time to travel in 
France, Italy, Germany, eastern Europe or 
even the British Isles and Ireland. Mary Jo 
Weber, 1979-80 participant called her year 
"by far the most rewarding experience of my 
life.
There are currently eight Swiss Juniors 
here at CMU in the process of discovering 
American student life and all that it entails,
i.e. Iron City Beer, Steelers games, and allnighters in the comp center, the last of 
which caused Swiss mechanical engineer 
Serge Amoos to comment, I find American 
attitudes very different... I can not believe the 
competition between students in classes.
An organizational meeting will be held 
sometime in November for all-interested stu
dents. There are still places open for sopho
mores who would like to go to Switzerland 
for the next academic year. Anyone wishing 
to be notified of this meeting should contact 
Dr. Bauer at x2676. For more information or 
personal insights feel free to telephone past 
participants Mary Jo Weber at 687-4684 or 
John Cooper at 621-2911.
Sunss countryside near Lausanne
A Philip Pelusi Haircut 
for $6.00!!
Register for hair cutting classes. 
Call 261-6550 or stop by our 
salon in 
Squirrel Hill, The Bank Center
Keep Red Cross 
ready.
CMU Student
Corporation
T-Shirt Company
We print your designs or those of our designing staff
Many shirts can be bought separately Minimum order: 12
Your fraternity, sorority, activity, dorm, group, department, and many others
different styles, colors, and sizes
Skibo: Rm 58 or c/o Student Corp. Skibo 102, x3535
Campus Cheese Co
Taking orders now! 
Many types
Reduced Prices
New Order each Month, look for order forms
Skibo: Rm. 58 or c/o Student Corp. Skibo 103, x3535.
EXPERIENCETHE WORLD AS YOUR CAMPUS
Sail around the world from Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, February 8, 
1981 to South America, Africa, South Asia and the Orient. 
Apply now.
Earn a full semester of credit. Sponsored by the University of 
Pittsburgh. Offered as an outreach program by the Institute for 
Shipboard Education/University Center for International 
Studies. Participation open to qualified students from all accred
ited colleges and universities. Semester at Sea admits students 
without regard to color, race or creed
More than 60 university courses - with in-port and voyage-related 
emphasis. Faculty from the University of Pittsburgh and other leading 
institutions. Visiting area experts
For free color brochure, call or writ Semester at 3ea/U CIS . Forbes Quadrangle. University of Pittsburgh, PA 18360 Telephone toU free (800) M4-01M (except Calif oral*): 
(41*) 614 (0*1 (Pittsburgh); (714) 881-8770 ( Calif ormla). The SS Universe is fully air-conditioned, 18.000 tons, registered in Liberia and built In America

---------------------------------------------------

Common Grounds in Morewood Gardens invites you to mix and mingle at its grand opening Nuts and Bolts Party, Friday, November 7th at 9:30 p.m. At the door, gents will receive a bolt and ladies a nut. Find the person who fits your bolt or nut and win $50 cash or one of forty- eight record gift certificates. Come dance to the tunes of TOIZ and search for th perfect match.
1 he Xuis poot Bolls is presented io you In ,tO Maniot (ioip.. AH Dante, Residente l.ile and SIX Piogi.mnnint.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.Swellfoofs Tears: Oedipus revisited at Pittsburgh Lab
by T. G. Fiori
In this post-Freudian era, the implica
tions of Oedipus ordeal have been res
tricted, almost exclusively, to psychological 
inquiry. His circumstance of humiliation 
has been reduced to a two-word classifica
tion, a mere psycho-analytical sobriquet. 
The human interest in Oedipus, his extrem
ity of guilt, helplessness and hopelessness 
suffered as a result of circumstances beyond 
control, has been all but supplanted by the
ories of mother-lust. That is, until now.
Through the 16th of November at the 
newly remodeled Lion Walk (N. Craig and 
Baum Blvd.), Leon Katz and the Pittsburgh 
Laboratory Theatre explore the utter agony 
and humiliation of Oedipus confrontation 
with Fate. Swellfoots Tears is a shockingly 
graphic study of Oedipus profound depre
cation, horror, and ultimate impotence in 
the face of unqualified devastation.
In the realm of drama, as in that of psy
chology, a fresh approach to an old subject 
warrants attention. In this sense alone, SwelIfoots Tears deserves to be seen. Sophocles, 
Euripides, et al. wont harangue Katz in 
Hades; Swellf oot penetrates the storylines of 
the ancient works and concentrates on the 
pure motion of the myth. The exposition 
of story is secondary to the emotions evinced 
from them. Katz Oedipus, the character 
Swellfoot, possesses no spiritual or intellec
tual distance from his torment. He doesnt 
reason or rationalize; he only feels. The 
effect upon the viewer is sensory stimula
tion, not necessarily empathy or understand
ing, but a sense of uncommon torment.
This sensual communication is SwelIfoots greatest attribute. Most elements of 
production adhere to the mood of torment, 
creating with ubiquitous agony a corres
pondingly uniform tone. Bordered by a
black pipe fence, the set alone is a study in 
desperation. Crammed into the confines of 
the fence is a huge mound of filth, crudely 
sculptered to resemble a screaming man 
with bloodied eye sockets; a large pit whe
rein dead, decaying bodies are thrown sits to 
the back of the set. The stage floor is covered 
with loose dirt. Clad in pale, tattered rags, 
the actors are dark-spotted from plague. 
Before the play actually begins, the actors, 
moaning, coughing or otherwise suffocat
ing from impending death, lisdessly trudge 
around the stage, stirring the dirt from the 
floor to the air. The effect from the outset is 
an atmosphere of overwhelming 
oppression.
In this realistic atmosphere, the surreal 
action begins. A character identified as the 
Director enters at the start of the play and 
sits, his back to the audience, at a lighted 
directors board just outside of the prison
like compound. From then on he dictates 
the action of the play by ordering the charac
ters to wake up, to eat, to clean the com
pound of the dead, and, individually, to tell 
of their involvement with Oedipus. Jocasta, 
his mother, screams of her sexual dissatisfac
tion with him; Eteocles, his son and brother, 
kicks him around and threatens to kill him 
if he wont divulge who will ascend his 
vacant throne; the Sphynx, a sort of balloon 
puppet, harrasses Swellfoot to answer the 
ancient riddle; Tiresias, an effeminate 
prophet, sexually molests him. Swellfoot 
reacts with screams of repentence, frenzied 
movement or quiet cowering. Amid the fer
vor sits the Director, intent on his notes.
The language is obscene, the action is 
vehement, and conditions are perverse. Ever
ything is as extreme as Swellfoots torment.
To appraise the play in terms of tone, 
Swellfoots Tears achieves an overall coheDancin on ice
by Richard Gorelick
Heinz Halls Broadway Theater Season 
continued last week with Bob Fosses Dan
cin\ By the time you read this review, Dan
cin will have left Heinz Hall and regrouped 
in a different city. This short run is unfortu
nate, not only because a review can have no 
effect on whether or not readers will see the 
play, but also because it reveals the caliber of 
outfit involved in the production.
After a play has been on Broadway for 
some time, the producers will assemble a 
national touring company; these companies 
are equal in stature and talent to the Broad
way company and often include the stars of 
the original production (for example, 
Angela Landsbury is currently on tour in 
Sweeny Todd). There are also several lesser 
companies, known as bus and trucks that 
play smaller cities, colleges and towns. 
While these arent just a group of people 
who have gotten together and decided to 
put on a show, they often simply do not 
include the talent of a National Touring 
Company. The company at Heinz Hall was, 
unfortunately a bus and truck.
Heinz Hall however is not to blame for 
these circumstances. With a house schedule 
that must support a symphony, a ballet, an 
opera and a modem dance company there 
are plainly not three consecutive weeks in 
the year for a National Touring Company 
to perform, and it is not economically feasi
ble for either Heinz Hall or a National Com
pany to set up for ? one week stint.
Nevertheless, the . ompany that brought 
Dancin to Pittsburgh seemed woefully out 
of place in ornate Heinz Hall before a large 
opening night audience, amidst the original 
sets and lighting of the Broadway show. 
ITie dancers, with credits from such places 
as Busch Gardens and industrial shows, 
were all very good, with a few notable excep
tions, but none were excellent, or at least 
excellent enough to sustain an entire evenmg of modern dance.
The audience was forced to sort of half
squint and imagine what things were sup
posed to look like; how it would look if 
everyone moved in unison (which they 
didnt), how it would look if all the men 
leaped very high (which they didnt) and 
how it would be like if everyone had great 
singing voices and vivacious stage presence 
(which, unfortunately they didnt).
By using some imagination though, the 
audience could tell that Dancin is an inven
tive, and at times ingenious act of theater. As 
the show opens, a dancer stands stage front 
and announces that The Surgeon General 
has warned that sentimental musical come
dies are dangerous to the well being of the 
critical theater-goer, and that Dancin 
would be just that, lots of dancin
The best things going for this production 
was Bob Fosses unique choreography 
(recreated by an original member of Dan
cin), and the lighting and sets. It is seldom 
that a shows lighting is memorable, let 
alone discernible, but Dancins Tony Award 
winning lighting by Jules Fisher was spec
tacular. Lasers and shadows worked with 
the dancers to stunning effect. In fact, the 
evenings undisputed highlight, a number 
where seven dancers nail their shoes to the 
floor and stand side by side (Fourteen 
Feet) exploded when the lights went down 
and flourescent strips on the dancers cos
tumes began to gyrate around like a colony 
of stick figures.
Songs that required any singing or acting 
ability on the part of the dancers suffered; a 
tribute to Bojangles with the spirit of the 
famous dancer lurking behind a modem 
skid-row impersonator failed because the 
man playing the part of the down-and-out 
dancer did not look gracefully inept, but 
only inept. A small comedy bit, Ive got 
those feelin too good today blues missed 
because the performer could not handle the
sion that is quite moving. Unfortunately, 
Swellfoots Tears has definate flaws that stay 
it from realizing its ambitious potential.
The Oedipus myth is a complex one, so 
the knowledge of characters relationship to 
Oedipus is important to the understanding 
of the plays action. A summary of the myth 
is printed in the program, but does not 
always clarify itself within the context of the 
play. Since the story doesnt unfold in a 
chronological way, a total understanding of 
his ordeal needs the aid of some amount of 
history.
The greatest flaw of Swellfoots Tears des
troys what could be its greatest dramatic 
effect and human implication: the signifi
cance of the Director. Up until the last few 
lines of the play, the Directors function 
seems to be as ultimate oppressor. It appears 
that he is responsible for Swellfoots torment 
because he controls the plays exposition. At 
the end of the play, though, The Director 
matter-of-factly reveals his identity, I, Swel
lfoot, mound of merde, remember. The 
play becomes his recollection of the ordeal.concertfile
Frank Zappa
On Thursday, November 13th, DiCesare 
Engler Productions will present guitarist, 
composer, and dental floss tycoon Frank 
Zappa in concert at the Stanley Theatre.
Zappa rose to the top of the avant-garde 
freak rock world as the leader of the Mothers 
of Invention. Zappa and the Mothers 
released numerous albums, including Over
night Sensation, Freak Out, and Weasles 
Ripped My Flesh, which became critical 
and commercial successes.
Zappas talent for surrounding himself 
with high quality musicians was clearly 
shown in his albums with the Mothers. 
Among the many musicians who started 
with the Mothers are jazz violinist Jean-Luc 
Ponty, drummer Aynsley Dunbar, keyCurtaincall
Dont Walk Around Stark Naked 
and The Bald Soprano
Theater Express Fifth Anniversary 
season opens with a pair of French one 
act plays. Dont Walk Around Stark 
Naked is by Georges Feydeau, the master 
of farce, and the author of Lady From 
Maxims which was a very successful 
mainstage production at CMU last year. 
Feydeau comedys are pure, unadulterated 
enjoyment and therefore, something of a 
departure for Theater Express, whose 
productions have traditionally been 
more somber.
The second one-act is The Bald 
Soprano by Eugene Ionesco, which 
represents a completely different 
approach to French farce. This coupling 
of plays provides a rare opportunity for 
audiences to see the growth of theater 
within a single genre in one country.
Directing both one acts will be CMU 
graduate Mark Masterson. This will be 
Mastersons directing debut with Theatre 
Express. The production runs through 
November 23. Call 621-5454 for tickets 
and information.
Considering his emotions throughout the 
play, coupled with his final statement, the 
Director serves to take the Oedipus myth one 
step further than previous handlings of the 
subject. The Oedipus theme becomes a met
aphor for any human being reacting to com
plete devastation, a reaction that proceeds 
from agony during the catastrophe, to petri
fying recollection of it, to, finally, an emo
tional and intellectual detachment of 
indifference. Unfortunately, this unique 
concept of human reaction is but barely 
implied. What could have been Swellfoots 
most important dramatic and philosophical 
implication becomes littie more than a 
superfluous afterthought.
Swellfoots Tears is not perfect; it suffers 
from problems of emphasis and clarity that 
impede its overall effectiveness. Yet, its uni
form presentation of superlative tomient is 
greatly effective on perceptive, subliminal 
levels to produce a sensual awareness of 
anguish. You may not understand all of the 
production, but you will be disturbed by it.
boardist George Duke, and Mark Volman 
and Howard Kaylan (now known as Flo & 
Eddie).
While everyone in the Mothers has been 
good, the groups sound was to a large part 
dependent on the vocal and guitar work of 
Frank Zappa. Contrary to the normal rock 
guitarist, Zappas skill is increasing even 
after more than a decade of producing 
albums and touring. His latest album, Joes 
Garage:Acts I, II r III features some of his 
best guitar work in years. The concert 
should focus on this album, a few greatest 
hits and undoubtedly some new stuff.
There will be two shows on Thursday 
night; tickets for both shows are available at 
the Stanley Box Office and National Record 
Marts.
Pittsburgh Baiiet Theater
The Ballets second program of the season 
will feature Portraits, Patrick Frantzs lyrical 
ballet choreographed to Chopins piano 
Etudes. This ballet includes Frantzs 
highly acclaimed series of romantic 
vignettes performed against a backdrop of 
Monets impressionistic painting, Water 
Lillies.
Also on the program is Barre Inn the 
Tavern, the Pittsburgh Ballet Theatres first 
ballet to jazz music, choreographed by prin
cipal dancer Keith Martin to music by 
Claude Bolling. This stvlized 30s enquiries 
and sets are designed by CMUs Bill Brewer.
The third highlight on the program is the 
legendary Russian classic Petrouchka. This 
touching story of the puppet who comes to 
life and falls in love with the beautiful, but 
heartless ballerina, is translatd musically to 
perfection by Stravinsky. Considered by 
many to be his greatest ballet score, Stravins
kys Petrouchka vividly captures the spirited 
flavor of the colorful carnival scene and its 
fascinating array of characters.
Tickets for the November 7-9 program are 
available at the Heinz Hall box office or by 
calling 281-0360.
comedy or singing well enough.
More successful were a series of dances 
performed just to percussion, and a lively 
pas-de-tois done to Big Noise in 
Wenotchka that, more than any other 
song, highlighted Fosses trademark of sensous, pulsating choreography.
All in all, the production provided Pitts
burghers with an opportunity to see an 
unusual concept in enertainment, one that 
salutes the dancer, and an opportunity to see
the skeleton of a highly successful Broadway 
show. The evening was not regrettable (the 
dancers were not terrible, or even badthey 
just werent great), but if Dancin had 
opened with this cast on Broadway, it would 
not have lasted past the next mornings 
reviews. One only wishes Ann Reinking 
had happened to drop by Heinz Hall with 
17 of "her friends, put on her tights and 
showed us what Dancm was all about.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanNovember 4, 1980
The surprising, incredible results of The Tartans first
They came in envelopes, they came 
stapled, they came scotch-taped. In all, a 
deluge of over 250 responses to The Tartans 
First Annual Entertainment and Personal
ity Omnibus Opinion poll poured into Tar
tan headquarters. An independent 
statistician tabulated the results which were 
then presented to The Entertainment editor 
for analysis.
Definite trends were noted; like 241 peo
ple out of the 262 that responded voted for 
James Dean. This is considered to be an 
unprecedented case of the power of the 
write-in vote (ballot stuffing). If enthusiasm 
of this sort can be carried over into presiden
tial elections, America may get someone 
qualified and competent to be its next presi
dent. Dont start holding your breath.
How the Dean Wave affected the results 
in other categories is unclear. Was the rest of 
the poll completed in earnest by these peo
ple, or did they simply complete the other 
categories at random? In an analysis of the 
ballots, The Tartan has decided that the 
other categories were voted on in a thought
ful, equitable fashion.
The Tartan wishes to thank everyone 
who participated in this poll, and apolog
izes for any misunderstanding that may 
have been caused in certain references to 
women. We obviously do not wish physical 
pain on anyone.
Favorite Movie
An old standard that has reached some
thing of a cult status competed with a 
modem comedy for the votes of Tartan 
readers. When the votes were tallied, 
however, Casablanca, with 29 votes beat 
out Woody Allenss Annie Hall, which 
attracted 24 votes.
Casablanca is the popular BogartBergman movie that began attracting 
college crowds in the late Sixties in a 
wave of nostalgia. It includes the line, 
Heres lookin at you kid, but does not 
include the line Play it again, Sam. 
Bogart, in fact, never said that line in a 
motion picture.
Annie Hall remains Allens most suc
cessful film, artistically and commer
cially. It won the Academy Award for best 
picture and Diane Keaton won an Oscar 
for best Actress. Annie Hall launched a 
fashion trend and popularized the 
phrases, Im into leather and What an 
asshole.
The most popular write-in choice was 
East of Eden and the least popular choice 
offered by the editors was the cult classic 
Harold and Maude.
Here are all the movies receiving at 
least two votes:
Casablanca 28
Annie Hall 24
Gone With The Wind 22
Star Wars 21
Wizard of Oz 14
Luna 10
East of Eden 12
Citizen Kane 9
Harold and Maude 8
Fame 6
Rebel Without a Cause 6
Giant 5
Apocalypse Now 4
M*A*S*H 3
Psycho 3
Two votes each: Brians Song, Divine 
Madness, M, Romeo and Juliet and To 
Kill a Mockingbird.
Favorite Television Show
As with the movie category, an old 
standard vied with a modern comedy for 
the top position in The Tartan poll. This 
time, however, the modern classic was the 
winner. M*A*S*H is CMUs most popu
lar television show with 44 votes, and 1 
Love Lucy is second with 35.
M*A*S*H has already lasted twice as 
long as the Korean War, and both early 
reruns and new episodes are of superior 
quality for television. The show has sur
vived cast and production changes to 
remain one of televisions most consist
ently popular shows. It has won numer
ous awards from both the television 
industry for its talent and from private 
organizations for its humanitarianism.
I Love Lucy is perhaps the quintessen
tial television comedy. Lucille Ball, in 
her heydey was an insurpassable come
dienne, and it seems audiences never tire 
of Lucys antics.
Sixty Minutes was the top write-in vote 
winner and Those Amazing Animals was 
the obvious loser among the editors cho
ices. Here are all programs receiving at 
least two votes:
M*A*S*H 44
I Love Lucy 35
Twilight Zone 23
Saturday Night Live 22
Mary Tyler Moore 19
Star Trek 13
Sixty Minutes 6
Those Amazing Animals 4
General Hospital 4
Bugs Bunny 3
Two votes each: Avengers, Chiller
Theater, Dragnet, Get Smart, Hogans 
Heroes, Little House on the Prarie, Lost 
in Space, Lou Grant, Masterpiece Thea
tre, Monday Night Football, Mork and 
Mindy, Night Gallery, Nova, Shogun, 
Sneak Previews, Taxi and The Tonight 
Show.
Favorite Female Performer
Bette beats Babs! In this very special 
category of women whose careers have 
been sustained by the adulation of Ameri
cas homosexual population, Bette 
Midler is the new queen. One respondent 
wrote of Midler, Streisands nose, but 
with a sense of humor. It may indeed be 
Midlers vulnerability and approachability that has vaulted her to the top of The 
Tartan poll. Midler received 42 votes and 
Streisand was close behind with 38.
Carly Simon, Gilda Radner and Linda 
Lovelace were the winners for write-in 
candidates and Diana Ross was the over
whelming loser of the editors choices. 
Here are all performers receiving more 
than two votes:
Bette Midler 
Barbara Streisand 
Miss Piggy 
Liza Minelli 
Diana Ross 
Gilda Radner 
Linda Lovelace 
Carly Simon 
Charo
Joni Mitchell
42
38
25
23
10
4
4
4
3
3
Bette Davis was the top write-in vote 
getter, and Brooke Shields failed to 
receive the support from Tartan readers 
that she has received from the American 
public. Shields received the least votes 
among the Editors choices.
Actresses receiving at least two votes:
Katherine Hepburn 
Diane Keaton 
Ingrid Bergman
35
29
25
Two votes each: Lucille Ball, Pat 
Benetar, Marilyn Chambers, The Girls of 
Delta Delta Delta, Carole King, Lassie, 
Stevie Nicks, The Roches, Craig Russell, 
Grace Slick and Jo-Jo Starbuck
Favorite Actress
Katherine Hepburn is the winner of 
The Tartans first opinion poll with 35' 
votes, and Diane Keaton, the first lady of 
Woody Allens films is second.
CARINGforPEOPLE
ThafeUnited Way
A woman who needs help needs understanding...
At WHS you receive confidential.
professional help in an atmosphere
of understanding and warmth
 Free pregnancy tests
 Free pregnancy counseling
 Termination of unwanted 
pregnancy
 Contraceptive care 
instructions
 Gynecological checkups 
and Pap tests
 Sexuality and marriage 
counseling
 Self breast examination 
procedures
Venereal disease testing 
and treatment
 Fertility referral
mhE?
Women's Health Services1209 Allegheny Tower625 Stanwix StreetPittsburgh, PA 15222(412) 562-1900 Monday-Saturday
(A non-profit, out-patient health facility)
HARVARD
Harvards Kennedy School of Government 
is looking for future leaders in Public Affairs
Career Seminar on
Graduate Management Training for
Public Sector Careers
Monday, November 10, 1980
Meet Vicki Smith, Director of Alumni Affairs
Call Career Services on Placement 
All Students, All Majors, All Years
Learn about
Harvard Masters Programs in 
PUBLIC POLICY 
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION 
CITY AND REGIONAL PLANNING

---------------------------------------------------

November 4, 1980The TartanPage 15
annual Personality and Entertainment Omnibus Poll
Carnegie-Mellon s favorite actor James Byron Dean of Indiannapolis
Jane Fonda 16
Anne Bancroft 12
Bette Davis 10
Brooke Shields 10
Julie Harris 8
Barbra Streisand 8
Jane Seymour 4
Meryl Streep 4
Natalie Wood 4
Jill Clayburgh 3
Lucille Ball 3
Ruth Gordon 3
Two Votes each; Lauren Recall, Candice 
Bergen, Marilyn Chambers, Bo Derek, 
Sally Field, Audrey Hepburn, Janet Gaynor, Sophia Loren, Bette Midler, Diana 
Rigg, and Cybil Shepherd.
Favorite Actor
James Dean was not listed among the 
editors choices. This slight did not pre
vent Tartan readers from mailing in over
240 ballots in his favor. It is hard to say 
how many people were involved in the 
Dean Wave, but there is no doubt that 
he has the same fervent following here 
that he has across the rest of the country.
There is a renewed interest in Deans 
movies and Deans life since this year 
marks the 25th anniversary of his tragic 
death.
Among the other candidates, Dustin 
Hoffman received the most votes, while 
Brando and DeNiro received no votes at 
all.
All candidates receiving votes:
James Dean 245
Dustin Hoffman 7
Alec Guiness 2
Peter Sellers 2
Jon Voight 2
Receiving one vote: Alan Alda, Humph
rey Bogart, Michael Caine, Richard Bur
ton, Brad Davis, Kris Kristofferson, John 
Gielgud, Robert Redford, Christopher 
Reeve.
The actress you would most like to see ripped to shreds by vermin in a movie
The voting came down to a choice 
between a politically offensive woman 
and a no-talent, vacuous bimbo. WThen 
the chips were down, however, Jane 
Fonda with 52 votes edged out Bo Derek 
who received 49.
Jane Fonda, who spoke at CMU last 
year with her husband, Tom Hadyn, is 
still considered by many Americans to be 
a traitor for lending support to the enemy 
in the Vietnam WTar. She is generaly 
considered to have a big mouth.
Bo Derek is known as an untalented, 
empty-headed bore by many Tartan 
readers, who with the determination of 
her Svengali husband, John Derek, 
lucked into a major movie role.
Among the editors choices, Shelly 
Duvall received the least votes.
Jane Fonda 52
Bo Derek 49
Tatum ONeal 38
Candice Bergen 19
Shelly Duvall 15
Charo 3
Cher 3
Barbra Streisand 3
Two votes each: Linda Blair, Bette Davis, 
Doris Day, Angie Dickinson, Jodie 
Foster, Farrah-Fawcett Majors, Margot 
Kidder, Barbara Rush and Twiggy
The woman you would most like 
to see get ripped to shreds in real 
life
Barbara Walters, the overpaid 
newscaster with a speech impediment, 
ran away with this category. The 
interesting race was for second place. 
Phyllis George, ex-Miss America, 
sportscaster, host of People magazine 
show, and now first lady of Kentucky, 
narrowly beat out the actress, Suzanne 
Somers.
People disliked Walters when she was 
still the host of the Today Show, but 
when she was offered the anchor position 
at ABC for an astronomical salary, dislike 
turned into something stronger, 
bordering on loathing. Walters currently 
conducts frivolous interviews with 
worthless people like Bo Derek.
Jane Fonda, winner of the hated actress 
category, was the top write-in vote getter, 
while Jane Pauley, Barbara Walters 
clone, received the least votes of the listed
choices.
Barbara Walters 57
Phyllis George 26
Suzanne Somers 24
Jane Fonda 17
Brett Somers 14
Phyllis Schafly 13
Bo Derek 9
Jane Pauley 9
Cher 5
Sue Borg 5
Bella Abzug 4
Amy Carter 4
Dear Abby 3
Farrah 3
Two votes: Jayne Kennedy, Vanessa 
Redgrave, Jo-Jo Starbuck, Gloria 
Steinham, Barbra Streisand.
The man you would mosi 
like to see publicly humiliated
Ironically, the man who won this cate
gory is also the man who humiliates him
self in public the most often, John 
Denver. The queer singer received almost 
50 votes more than his next competitor, 
CMU president Dick Cyert.
Aaron Tanzer was the write-in champ, 
and also the recipient of the most votes 
among non-existent people. Dom 
Deluise and James Coco (one choice) 
only received 5 votes, the least among
listed choices.
John Denver 74
Dick Cyert 25
Griff in-Douglas 15
Andy Warhol 13
Hamilton Jordan 10
Lamas-Montalban 8
Pete Rose 8
Halston 7
Deluise-Coco 5
Aaron Tanzer 5
Terry Bradshaw 4
John Alexander 3
Marlon Brando 3
Two votes each: Chuck Barris, Marlon 
Brando, Yul Brenner, John Anderson, 
Ronald Reagan, Alan Frio, Peter Fonda, 
Lou Sauer, Edwin Newman, Richard 
Pryor.
^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ 'p v
PERSPECTIVES
PERSPECTIVES^
Notts on Visual Formalism
Tomas Gouda studied graphic design in his homeland of Biida|x-st. He has since livid, taught ami exhibited 
his work in Argentina, Germany, (nada, Italy, and the U.S. In 1966, Mr. Gouda designed a series erf lxxiklets 
entitled Symmetry: an Appreciation of its Presence in Mans Consc ious. based upon a study conduc ted in the 
Dejxtrtment of Airhiteeluie, CMU, and ftuxkd by die Federal (knennnent. Mr. Concia lias taught at Ohio 
Slate University, worked as an an direc tor in Miln, served as direc tor of gra|>hie ck-sign for die Plumb Design 
Croup, N.Y.C., and is now president of his own firm, (onda De-sign, Inc. He is a member of the Alliance 
Cra|jliic]iK' International; and intently returned from an AGI conference in Munic h.PERSPECTIVES
THE DESIGN DEPARTMENT LECTURE SERIES
TOMAS GONDA________TONIGHT 8:00/SCH 7500
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE C^NCECAU 578-2921

---------------------------------------------------

Graduateto a higher challenge.Texas Instruments.
For years youve been proving to your professors just how good you are. Now its time to prove it to yourself.With a higher challenge. With Tfexas Instruments.
Prove yourself where innovations the rule, not the exception.
As a matter of corporate policy, TI has 
built-in budgets for new, innovative ideas. If 
you have a revolutionary concept that 
deserves to be put to the test, the moneys 
there.
Thats just part of the TI challenge.
Prove yourself in the worlds hot technologies.
No technology is hotter, or more fan
tastic, tham microelectronics. And no com
pany is hotter in it than TI.
Example: The TI 59 handheld calculator 
has more than twice the primary memory 
capacity of the three-ton computers of the 
1950s.
And look at these credentials. TI is:
 The worlds leading supplier of 
semiconductors.
 The patent holder for 
the single-chip 
microcomputer and 
the handheld elec
tronic calculator.
 The designer and 
producer of the most 
complex MOS chip
and the most popular microcomputer.
 The inventor of solid-state voice synthesis.
 The largest producer of microelectronic 
memory products.
 The world leader in Very Large Scale 
Integration.
 The primary supplier of airborne radars to 
the U.S. defense program.
 The leading developer and producer of in
frared and laser systems.
 The worlds foremost geophysical survey 
company.
Prove to yourself where you have the freedom to grow.
Because TI is like many companies in 
one, you have the opportunity to move 
laterally from one specialty to another as
well as move up. Without changing jobs.
TIs advanced 
system for lateral 
career mobility lets you 
move 15) faster.
Because the freedom 
to move sideways is 
the best way to com14 pare technologies and
define career goals early on.
The frequently published TI Job Oppor
tunity Bulletin lists openings at all TI 
facilities and gives TI people first crack 
at them.
Prove yourself where it counts.
TI has been acclaimed as one of 
Americas best-managed companies be
cause weve stayed young and vital while 
growing big.
One major reason for our high energy is 
our move-up environment. New people dont 
get buried at the bottom of a pecking order, 
because there isnt one. So if you get a good 
idea your first week on the job, it gets 
heard. And you get rewarded.
At TI, you get 
every chance to show 
what you can do. And 
prove what you deserve.
Prove yourself in an internationalcompany.
TI has hometowns in 19 countries on six 
continents. Youll find manufacturing in 
Singapore. Dallas. Tbkyo. Nice. Buenos Aires. 
And many other cities around the globe.
TI has hometowns to match your 
lifestyle. No matter where you call home. 
From New England to Tfexas to California.
Texas Instruments is interested in graduates from the following specialties:
 Electronics Engineering
 Electrical Engineering
 Mechanical Engineering
 Computer Science (Software/Hardware)
 Industrial Engineering
 Materials Science
 Solid-State Physics
 Engineering Physics
 Engineering Science
 Metallurgy
 Metallurgical Engineering
 Chemical Engineering
 Chemistry
 Mathematics
 Plastics Engineering
 Manufacturing Engineering Technology
 Geology/Geophysics
Campus Interviews
TI Consumer Products 
Group. From calculators 
and watches to home 
computers, electronic 
learning aids and more. 
TI Finance and Ac
counting. For group, 
division, corporate 
staff or multinational. 
*TI Digital Systems 
Group. A leader in get
ting the computer 
closer to the problem 
through distributed 
logic and memory.
Nov. 20-21 
*TI Equipment Group. 
Electro-Optics, Radar 
and Digital Systems, 
Missile and Ordnance. 
Nov. 20-21 
TI Facilities Planning 
and Engineering. Re
sponsible for facilities 
necessary for manufac
turing and testing TI 
products.
*TI Information Systems 
and Services. State-ofthe-art computer 
systems and services 
to TIs worldwide 
operation.
Nov. 20-21 
*TI Materials and Elec
trical Products Group. 
A world leader in engi
neered materials 
systems and home 
appliance and indus
trial controls.
Nov. 20-21 
Geophysical Service 
Inc. A world leader in 
the search for oil.
*TI Semiconductor 
Group. Semiconductor 
components, materials 
and technology.
Nov. 20-21 
TI Corporate Research, 
Development and Engi
neering. Pioneering the 
technologies required 
by present and future 
business opportunities.
*Only these groups will be interviewing on campus. If 
you are unable to attend these interviews at this time, 
or if you wish to apply with another group, send data 
sheet to:
George Berryman
Texas Instruments, Corporate Staffing 
P.O. Box 225474, M.S. 67, Dept. CG 
Dallas, TX 75265
Fifty Years 
, of Innovation
Werl oklingfekil
Chaos.osndkf
An equal opportunity employer M/F

---------------------------------------------------

jSports
Tartans take PAC title; smash meet record
by Wes Seeley
All signs before last Saturdays Presidents 
Athletic Conference Cross Country Cham
pionships looked for the race to be a close 
between Camegie-Mellon, the 1978 cham
pions, Allegheny, last years champs, 
Bethany and Case Western Reserve. It didnt 
happen that way, though. What did happen 
was a record a shattering performance the 
Tartans who captured the first four places 
and scored 19 points to bring the title back to 
Pittsburgh. The 19 points are a new PAC 
record, easily eclipsing the old mark of 22 set 
by Case Tech in 1958 and Eastern Michigan 
in 1965.
Leading the charge for the Tartans were 
the same runners who have been winning 
races all year. Senior Dario Donatelli and 
freshman John Wessels came across the line 
together to take top honors. Donatelli fin
ished second in the conference meet the last 
two years but this year his time of 25:42 on 
the 4.85-mile course through Schenley Park 
was enough for a share of the tide.
Wessels led a crop of freshmen across the 
finish line for Coach Gary Meckleys Tar
tans who ran extremely well all season. 
Behind Wessels were Mike Short who came 
in third at 25:55; Kevin Brewer, fourth at 
25:59; John McGowan, ninth at 26:31; Art 
Ward, tenth at 26:31 and Bob Dusch, twelfth 
at 26:41. With six Tartan freshmen among 
the first 12 across the line, it seems certain 
that Coach Meckley will have champion
ship teams in the PAC for several years to 
come.
With the race for first place over almost 
before it had begun, most peoples attention 
turned to the race for second place which 
turned out to be a pretty good one. Alex Kon 
of Bethany was the first non-Tartan to 
finish and he was followed by Marty Meyer 
of Case Reserve and Brent Henderson of 
Allegheny. When all the dust had setded, 
Bethany with 73 points had edged Allegh
eny and Case who finished with 75 and 78 
points, respectively.
Hiram, led by Bill Ross who finished 
13th, took fifth place with 157 points. Thiel 
took sixth with 172 points. John Cairoll 
trailed the field with 183.
The Tartans next set their sights on the 
NCAA Eastern Regionals to be held 
November 15 at Lebanon Valley College. 
There, the Tartans will try to qualify for the 
National Championships at the University 
of Rochester on Nov. 21.
INDIVIDUAL RESULTS
1. Dario Donatelli (CMU)
l.(tie)John Wessels (CMU)
3.Mike Short (CMU)
4.Kevin Brewer (CMU)
5. Alex Kon (B)
6.Marty Meyer (CRWU)
7.Brent Henderson (A)
8.John Cannon (A)
9.John McGowan (CMU)
10. Art Ward (CMU)
25:42 Alistair MacDonald (A) 26:38;12. Bob 
25:42 Dusch (CMU) 26:41; 13. Bill Ross (H) 26:49;
25:55 14. Phil Krasinski (B) 26:50; 15. Jim Moller
25:59 (CWRU) 26:50; 16. Marty Maag (B) 26:56;
26:06 17. Mark Swiger (B) 27:00; 18. Mike
26:09 McDevitt (CWRU) 27:02; 19. Mike Berger25:14 Hershkowitz (CWRU) 27:05; 20. Steve
26:15 Barrett (CWRU) 27:12.
26:31 21. Ray McCarthy (B)27:12; 22. Joe
26:34 Harry hill (CWRU) 27:16; 23. Dan
DiChristina (B) 27:22; 24. Phil Rizzo (A) 
27:30; 25. Bill Tomer (A) 27:43.
TEAM TOTALS
1 .Camegie-Mellon
2.Bethany
3. Allegheny
4.Case Western Reserve
5.Hiram
6.Thiel
7.John Carroll
19
73
75
78
157
172
183
who
lumtmit...... 1 11 pr* < *............................
photo by Karen Schultz
Two of the top runners for the Tartans last Saturday were Art Ward (left) who finished tenth and Bob Dusch 
15 came in 13th, shown here in earlier action this season.CMU nips Terriers 17-3 to finish season at 7-1
&
x,.,y>-.-v V
photo by Doug Kirsop
After returning from his wrist injury, sophomore quarterback Bill Kiselick (no. 13) performed very well for the 
Tartans.
conversion resulted in a 14-3 bulge for the 
Tartans midway through the second stanza. 
Neither team could get any offensive thrust 
in the first half, and at halftime the Tartans 
held onto their 14-3 edge*_ __
CMU upped their lead to 17-3 on their 
first possession of the second half, as Postufka kicked a 23 yard field goal after the 
Tartans drove 53 yards from their 41 to the 
Terrier 6. Colosimo led the way with a 32 
yard burst, Harrison added a run of fifteen 
yards to advance the Plaid into Postufkas 
field goal range.
The rest of the game saw the Hiram 
offense in Tartan territory trying to mount a 
scoring drive, but Terrier mistakes and a 
stingy CMU defense prevented a score. After 
Evans 59 yard scamper on the first play of 
the game, the Tartan defense gave up only
62 yards on 39 carries, an average of 1.6 yards 
per attempt. Hie pass rush of CMU was also 
having having a field day, sacking Hiram 
quarterbacks Hoysickand Dana Gruver five 
times, three times late in the game to help 
halt Terrier drives.
Joe Vasalani led the Tartan ground game, 
picking up 68 yards on eleven tries, while 
Colosimo added 52 yards on his seven 
rushes, and Harrison ground out 31 yards 
on nine cracks and two touchdowns. The 
two touchdowns gave Harrison a total of 80 
points for the season which should rank 
him among the top ten nationally in Div
ision III. Brown finished the day with four 
completions in eleven attempts for 41 yards 
and one interception, while Kiselick con
nected on three of eight passes for 51 yards.
by Bob Share
The Camegie-Mellon University Tartan 
football team closed out its 1980 season Sat
urday by whipping the Terriers of Hiram 
College, 17-3, at Hirams Charles A. Henry 
Field. Despite a fine 8-1 regular season, the 
Tartans dont look to make the NCAA Div
ision III playoffs for the first time in three 
years. This year, that honor will most likely
neered by CMU quarterback Rick Brown. 
Brown hit four out of seven passes during 
the drive for forty yards, the rest of the 
ground was covered by the running of 
Brown, and running backs Jeff Harrison 
and Perry Colosimo. Harrison went the 
final two yards to give the Tartans their 
go-ahead touchdown. Placekicker Denny 
Postufka connected on the extra point to
go to Bethany College, which defeated culminate the seven minute drive and give a
Washington 8c Jefferson, 21-11, to complete 
an undefeated season and win the PAC 
championship.
The Terriers got off to a fast start in the 
opening quarter, as running back Don 
Evans took a handoff on the first play from 
scrimmage and rambled 59 yards to the 
CMU 21 before a Tartan defender could 
bring him down. The CMU defense stif
fened, however, forcing a fourth down on 
the Tartan 12. Hiram kicker Jeff Reed dien 
booted a 29 yard field goal to give the Terri7-3 lead to the Tartans. Hiram again 
seemed to be able to move the ball well 
against the Tartans Plaid Curtain 
defense, as Terrier Quarterback Jim Hoysick hit tight end Ed Blott with a 37 yard pass 
to the CMU 46 on the first play of the drive. 
But three plays later an errant Hoysick pass 
was picked off by Tartan comerback Brian 
Renner, giving CMUs offense the ball at 
their twelve. The quarterbacking chores 
were then taken over by sophomore Bill 
Kiselick, a top contender for the job next
ers the early 3-0 lead after only 3:26 of the year. Kiselick led the Tartans 88 yards in 17 
first quarter had expired. plays, 51 of those yards coming through the
rhe Tartan offense then received its first air on three of five passing. Once again, 
opportunity to move the football, and Harrison took the ball into the end zone, this 
responded with a 16play, 67-yard drive engi- time from the one. and Postufkas successfulJeff Harrison scores one of his 13 touchdowns this season.photo by Jenny I .add

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanNovember 4, 1980
Soccer squad closes season on losing note
The Camegie-Mellon soccer team put 
together two strong efforts last week against 
tough opposition but came up empty both 
times losing to West Virginia Wesleyan, 2-1, 
and Grove City, 1-0. The two losses mark 
the end of a disappointing season for the 
Tartans who finished with a 3-8-2 record on 
the year.
Last Wednesday, the nationally-ranked 
West Virginia Wesleyan Bobcats came to 
town with their minds set on giving the 
Tartans a soccer lesson. That didnt happen 
as the Plaid played strong defensive soccer 
throughout the first half. Their only lapse 
came at the 40 minute mark when a Tartan 
defender lost the ball in front of the CMU 
net and Dave Turner put the ball past goaltender Dan Carlin with an assist going to 
Joe Pietanza.
In the second half, Doug Kretzmer scored 
to five the Bobcats a 2-0 lead 13 minutes into 
the second half. The two teams played 
evenly after that with Mike Wuenstel scor
ing with five minutes to play in the match. 
Tim Carlin was credited with an assist on 
the play. CMU could not come up with the 
equalizer in the last five minutes, however, 
and the matched ended at 2-1.
Saturday, the Tartans dropped a tough 
match to Grove City on a goal that should 
never have been scored. Twelve minutes 
into the match, Grove City was awarded a
comer kick. The kick went in front of the 
CMU net but no one could get a foot on it 
until a Grover who was on the ground man
aged to put it in the net. The Tartans, who 
were outshot 22-11 on the afternoon, never 
got the equalizer.
photo by Robert Zusman 
Midfielder Mike Wuenstel scored his first goal of the year last Saturday against Grove City.
IRON CITY REGULAR 
IRON CITY LIGHT 
SCHLITZ 
BUO
SCHMIDTS
SCHMIDTS BOCK DARK 
CHAMPALE - WHITE 
OR FINK 
STROHS 
GENESEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHLITZ
BALLANTINE ALE 
MICHEL08 REGULAR 
MICHELOB LIGHT 
PABST
PABST EXTRA LIGHT 
MILLER 
MILLER LIGHT 
COLT 45
GENESEE CREAM ALE 
WEIOEMAN
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak Subs
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM - 2 AM
QUARTS  MUGS PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 DIFFERENT DRAFT BEERS 
MILLER. MICHELOB. M0LS0N ALE. HEINEKEN.
STROHS ANO SCHTZ MALT 
On* different 16 ot. 6 pk Mured each week
SCHTZ * PABST 
SCHTZ WALT * STROHS 
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
* SPECIALTY ITEMS *
FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES-PIZZA SERVED TIL 4 AM 
HOT DOGS - CHOICE OF 12 DIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 
35 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES
Qrioinal
^ hot nnr,
IMPORTS
 BECKS LIGHT OH OARK Germany
* CARISBURG MALT
* OORT1 HANSA Germany
* HOfBRAU Germany
* FISCHER GOLD France
* HOLSTEN LAGER Germany
* ST PAULI GIRL Germany 
 SPATEN Germany
' RIGNES SPECIAL Norway
* SWAN LAGER Australia 
 BASS ALE Enel and
' MAC KESON STOUT 
England
* LOWENBRAU LIGHT OR 
DARK Germany
WHITEBREAO PALE ALE 
England
* PILSNER URQUELL 
Czechoslovakia
* RIGNES Norway
* OOS EQUIS Mexico
- PERONI Italy
' GUINESS STOUT Ireland
* GROLSCHE Holland
* GOSSER Austria
* SAN MIGUEL PMIIpines
* KIRIN Japan
* MOLSON ALE Canada
* KRAKUS Poland
* HEINEKEN LT  OK Holland
- FOSTER S U6ER Australia 
ANO MANY OTHERS-T!-HOT 00G SHOPS. INC. 21-7388 or 621 -1185
3901 FORBES AV. (OAKLAND) RGH., PA. 19713
photo by Spass Stoiantschewsky 
Soccer Coach Gene Klein has completed his 
fourth season at CMU.
CMU-HIRAM SUMMARY
CMU
Hiram
Hiram - Jeff Reed 29 yd. FG
CMU - Jeff Harrison 2 yd. run (Postufka
kick)
CMU - Harrison l yd. run (Postufka kick) 
CMU - Postufka 28 yd. FG
WLTper.CMUHiram
Bethany7001.000First Downs1714
CMU610.857Rushes-Yards49-21140-121
John Carroll430.572Passing Yards92127
Thiel430.572Att.-Comp.-Int.19-7-124-10-2
Allegheny331.500Total Yards303248
Hiram241.357Fumbles-Lost1-10-0
Wash-Jeff160.143Penaldes-Yards3-204.-40
Case WR070.000Punts-Avg.6-26.57-36.9
Camegie-Mellon 17 Hiram 3
Bethany 21 Washington & Jefferson 11
Allegheny 16 Thiel 10
John Carroll 35 Case Western Reserve 20
Exxon On Energy:
AIESEC and CarnegieMellon University present 
A.K. Wolgast, Senior 
Manager of Exxon 
International. His lecture, 
Exxon on Energy: A 
World Afire, will take 
place on Thursday, 
November 6, 7 PM in the 
Wherrett Room, Skibo. 
Admission is free.
TARTAN LEADERS
Passing-Kiselick 3 for 8,51 yards. Brown 4 
for 11, 41 yds. 1 int.
Rushing-Vasalani 11 for 68 yards. Colo
simo 7 for 52 yards. Harrison 9 for 31 yards, 
2TD. Sansosti 8 for 26 yards. Kiselick 8 for 23 
yards. Brown 6 for 11 yards.
Receiving-Leposky 3 for 45 yards. Drakulic 2 for 25 yards. Rubai 2 for 22 yards.
Bloomfields Newest
KLOTHES KLOSET
New and Used Mens 
and Womens Apparel 
Nothing over $20.00 
4619 Liberty Ave.
Pittsburgh 24 
621-5424
Pregnant?
And you didnt mean to be? 
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help call
Birthright 621-1988

---------------------------------------------------


November 4, 1980The TartanPage 19
Haven III, Beta A A, D-Force and KKG take IM crowns
by Leslie Weiser
The champions of intramural touch foot
ball were crowned last weekend and the 
tides went to Haven III, Beta AA and DForce. Kappa Kappa Gamma had won the 
Womens Division championship earlier.
In Saturdays first contest, D-Force, losing 
fto the GSIA Doughboys by 13-7 after three 
quarters, came up with two touchdowns in 
the final quarter to down the Doughboys, 
19-13 and take the Minor League tide.
In the intermediate final, Beta AA came 
up with one touchdown in the second quar
ter and another in the third and held on to 
beat Kappa Sigma, 13-6.
The Major League final was between 
Haven III and GSIAs Wild Bunch. Haven 
III got to the finals by whipping Pika-A,
I 26-12. Wild Bunch made their by holding 
on to defeat ATO 32-20 after leading at one 
point in the game by 26-0. In the final, 
Haven III was in control from the outset and 
went oh to take its second consecutive Major 
Leauge touch football title by a score of 19-6.
In other IM news, the intramural water 
polo finals will be played on Wednesday, 
November 5 at 8:00 PM. SAE, with one loss 
on the year, will go up against the unde
feated Phi Kappa Theta-A team for the tide.
Please get all the table tennis games 
played on time as scheduled and turn in the 
match results to the IM office in room 104 of 
the gym. The commissioner is Dave Kusma, 
phone 578-4270.
Racquetball schedules are posted on the 
IM bulletin board outside the racquetball
courts. Three single games constitute a 
match. Please turn in match scores to the IM 
office within 24 hours after the match is 
completed.
Intramural soccer will begin tonight with 
games scheduled at 6:00 PM, 7:00 PM and 
8:00 PM. Schedules are out and can be 
picked up at the IM office. Please note the 
following rule changs for 1980:
1. Games will be played in two 20-minute 
halves with a five minute rest period 
between halves.
2. On all free kicks, the kicker cannot 
contact the ball again until after it has been 
touched by another player.
The commissioner for soccer is Chris 
Wargo, phone 683-5728 or 621-9144.
Six-person volleyball schedules are out 
and are posted in the gym. Please play all 
matches as they are scheduled. The commis
sioner is Mike Pochan, phone 683-0372.
Bowling matches started this weekend. 
All matches will be rolled on Saturday 
mornings at Strand Lanes in Oakland. 
Please make sure your bowling fees are paid 
to the Strand Lanes. The commissioner 
Dave Hecht, phone 687-8968.
Sports due by Thrusday, November 6 at 
4:30 PM are three-person volleyball, darts, 
and backgammon. Commissioners are 
needed for all of these sports.
There will be an important IM board 
meeting on Thursday, November 6 at 12:30 
PM in Room 104 of the gym. Make sure 
your organization is represented at this 
important meeting.
Hockey Club opens up 
with 5-5 tie at IUP
The CMU Hockey gave up a goal in the 
last three minutes to let the Indiana Univer
sity Apaches battle back to capture a 5-5 tie 
in a pre-season game played last Tuesday 
night. The Tartans opened the games scor
ing late in the first period as center Marc 
Fallon poked a rebound into the net. The 
Apaches answered with a goal of their own 
less than a minute later and the period ended 
in a 1-1 tie.
The second period saw the Tartans three 
times take one-goal leads on goals by Eddie 
McKenna, Frank Carter and Fallon (his 
second of the contest). Each time, however, 
IUP cornered with goals of their own and 
the second period ended with the game 
again tied. This time, it was 4-4.
Early in the final period, Carter scored his
photo by Karen Schultz
Kappa Sigs Ron Clelland returns a kick against Beta AA in the intermediate finals. Beta AA won the game 13-
second goal of the game as he crossed the 
blue line and fired a slap shot over the IUP 
goalies stick side to give CMU a 5-4 edge. 
The Tartans held their lead until 17:01 of 
the period when with both teams penalized, 
the IUP center slapped a bouncing puck 
past CMU netminder Steve Machevnis to 
make the final score 5-5.
The team looks to have a fine season but is 
looking for photographers and trainers. 
Their first regular season game will be 
November 23 against Penn StateMcKeesport at the Civic Arena at 7:00 pm.
PTIT
ENGINEERING
DRAFTINGSUPPLIES
355*0444
OPEN SAT. 10 to 5 P.M.
TOP NOTCH
iun dingulibsy lRfp
819PENN AVE ( PGH.)
You Can Still Mate 
A Difference
While careers in public service may not be as fashionable 
as they were a decade ago, such careers can be very 
rewarding and personally satisfying.
After just three months of intensive training at The Institute 
for Paralegal Training, you will be prepared to work in govern
ment agencies, public service organizations and lawfirms as 
a Legal Assistant in the fields of Administrative and Public 
Law or Criminal Law. You will do work traditionally performed 
by attorneys. You will work in the dynamic field of govern
ment legislation and regulation and be involved in such areas 
as: Environmental Law, Food Drug and Health Law, Criminal 
Justice, Equal Opportunity, Welfare, Energy, and Product 
Safety Law.
Furthermore, you will earn graduate credit towards a 
Master of Arts in Legal Studies through Antioch School of 
Law for all course work completed at The Institute.
We are the nations first and most respected school for 
paralegal training, and since 1970, have trained more than 
4,000 college graduates from across the country.
If you are a senior of high academic standing and looking 
for a meaningful eareer, contact your Placement Office for an 
interview with our representative.
We will visit your campus on: Wednesday, December 3
TheInstituteforParalegalTraining
235 South 17th Street 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 
(215) 732-6600
(Operated by Para-Legal, Inc.)
Approved by The American Bar Association 
Programs Earn Full Credit Toward M.A. in Legal Studies 
through Antioch School of Law.
I cant think of another company that offers greater opportunity for 
technical achievement.
John A. Rollwagen 
President and Chief Operating Officer 
Cray Research, Inc.
( Graduate of MIT 1962 )
Cray Research is a young, visible company whose efforts have a real impact on die 
immediate and long term future of scientific computing.
Our major industry contribution, the super scale OW1 computer, now stands in a 
class by itself as the technical standard of excellence by which all other scientific computers are measured.
We re proud of our professional teams achievements. And, were anticipating 
continued accomplishments in the future as our staff and expertise increases.
To help speed these successes, were looking to youthe ambitious college 
graduateas a key source of potential and promise. The careers we offer stand second to 
none for level of technical challenge, intrigue, and opportunities for making immediate contributions.
As a small organization committed to progress, we actively promote on going 
education, and provide in depth personalized training throughout the course of your career.
Positions in Programming, Systems Analysis, Engineering, and related areas are open to 
individuals seeking the chance to pursue and achieve their very best. If your background 
and goals match our profile, I hope youll consider a career future with Cray Research.
Our technical recruiter will be at the Camegie-MeUon University campus on 
November 24.
Check with your placement office to verify dates and sign on our schedule. If unable 
to arrange an appointment, send a copy of your resume for immediate attention to:
Don Byas, CRAY RESEARCH, INC., 1440 Northland Drive, Mendota Heights, MN 55120.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUN1 
EMPLOYER M/FRESEARCH, INC.

---------------------------------------------------

BOOK SALE
ROGETS THESAURUS. The book no home 
library should be without. Synonym and antonym col
lection of over 1000 English words and phrases. The 
100,000 words include synopsis of categories, dassificauon of words, complete index. Key words shown in 
bold type. 448 pages. (6-1/8" x 9-1/4"). Pub. at $7.95 
Only $3.98
GROSSMANS GUIDE TO WINES BEERS, AND 
SPIRITS, by H.J.Grossman. Long enjoyed by people 
in the alcoholic beverage industry, this Guide sustains 
and enhances its reputation as the most comprehensive 
and reliable book available on wines, beer, and spirits. 
74 x 9 in.; 656 pp. Pub. at $17.95. Now $6.98
ALBUM COVER ALBUM. Edited by Roger Dean 
and Hipgnosis. 700 color photos. Totally unique col
lection of the best erf a contemporary art form  the 
recced jacket. With their vibrant imagery and astound
ing graphics, record jackets have had as colorful a his
tory as the ardsts whose creations they house. Album 
covers from all the great group and individual per
formers are included: Elton John, the Beades, Rolling 
Stones, and many others. Pub. at $19.95 only $8.98
ZANE GREY: FIVE COMPLETE NOVELS. All
the romance, danger and excitement of the Old West is 
recreated in these five tales by Zane Grey. Incl. Riders of 
the Purple Sage, To the Last Man, Raiders of Spanish 
Peaks, The Thundering Herd, The Hash Knife Outfit. 
S6.98
il tS&VGl 0CD&RFS
WALT DISNEYS SNOW WHITE AND THE 
SEVEN DWARFS. The original story of the famous 
Disney film accompanied by many of the original story 
sketches and animation layouts used to illustrate the 
film continuity. Also includes character sketches and 
character model sheets used to guide the arusts during 
various stages in the production of the film. Most of this 
material has never been published before. Production 
notes, credits and two essays combine with these illus
trations to tell the entire story of the films's creation. 
Hundreds of color illustrations, sketches and drawings. 
10Y' x 12V' pages size. Published at $12.95 Now only 
$14.98
ANATOMY OF ARCHITECTURE by George 
Mansell. A magnificently illustrated tour of world 
architecture through the ages. 88 FULL COLOR and 
OVER 150 BLACK-AND-WHITE PHOTO
GRAPHS and unique cutaway drawing provide an 
entirely new view of the world s greatest structures from 
the inside to the outside. From the forbidding pyramids 
to the soaring vaults of a Gothic cathedral to the steel 
and glass of a New York City skyscraper  see it all in 
ANATOMY OF ARCHITECTURE! mx 13"). Pub. 
at $19.95 Only $9.98
THE BOOK OF NUMBERS. The ultimate com
pendium of the worlds most fascinating facts and statis
tics, including: Gallup Poll, Roper Organization, 
Confidential Industry Sources, the United Nations, and 
much, much more. Measures 7W' x W. Orig. Pub. at 
$12.50 Only $2.98
LUCIFERS HAMMER. By Larry Niven and Jerry 
Poumelle. Lucifers Hammer, the gigantic comet, 
slams into Earth, shattering civilization. Who will sur
vive and what will the new world be like? With bloodchilling tension, spellbinding suspense, and scientific 
acruracty, two prize-winning authors have written a 
provacative, shocking, and terrifying novel of today  
perhaps tomorrow. Orig. Pub. at $10.00 Only $2.98
The Complete Guide hiIllustration and Design
tedtniuues and materials
I
Complete guide to ILLUSTRATION AND 
DESIGN. Edited by Terence Dailey. Clearly describes 
all aspects of illustration and design  history, equip
ment, materials and techniques. Chapters on point 
media, ink, painting, printmaking, technical illustra
tion, design equipment and materials, designing for 
print, copying and photo printing processes, photoghraphy and reproduction processes. Glossaries of terms, 
papers and sizes, manufacturers and suppliers in the 
U.S. and U.K. Index, 224 pages, hundreds of color 
illustrations, drawings and diagrams. 9" x 12"page size. 
Special value only $12.98
A HISTORY OF THE MACHINE by Sigvard 
Strandh. Lavishly illustrated coffee-table-sized volume 
offeringf an engrossing account of machines and how 
they work. A HISTORY OF THE MACHINE inter
weaves a clear, readable, yet highly detailed text with 
HUNDREDS OF EXTENSIVE DRAWINGS AND 
DIAGRAMS, creating the first comprehensive history 
of the worlds most important engines and engineers. 
Subjects include the Treadmill, Waterwheel, Steam 
Engine, Turbine, and Computer. Engineers and inven
tors such as Diesel, Edison, Ford Von Braun, Wiener 
and Wankel, and many more! (1054" x 12"). Pub. at 
$35.00 Only $19.98
THE WORLD ACCORDING TO GARP. By John 
Irving. The incredible bestselling novel  explosive 
with energy, full of ribaldry and a sense of doom  one 
of mans odyssey through a very uncommon life. It is 
the acid yet affectionate story of schoolteachers and 
whores, wrestlers and radicals, editors and assasins, 
transsexuals and rapists, sons and lovers. Orig. Pub. at 
$10.95 Only $3.98
THE ARTICULATE BODY. By Sidi Hessel. A uni
que body improv ement program for women of all ages. 
15 minutes a day will lead to remarkable improvement 
in a short time. Based on easy stretching and suppling 
movements, section on posture and body positioning 
 hundreds of detailed step-by-step diagrams all 
accompanied by easy to follow instructions. Mainte
nance program, program guide. 135 pages. 10 x 10 page 
size. Pub. at $12.95 Now Only $2.98
THESE BOOKS AND MANY 
MORE ARE ON SALE NOW 
AT THE CMU BOOKSTORE
THE GREAT BOOK OF PUZZLES AND PER
PLEXITIES. Over 250 mind-bending riddles, mazes, 
cryptograms, figure and logic games to baffle and enter
tain the neophyte as well as the veteran puzzle fan. 
There are amusing illustrations by the talented John 
Alcorn, diffulty ratings for each of the puzzles and, to 
prevent total frustration, solutions for each of them as 
well. Indexed. 256 pp. 8H x 11 in. Pub. at $5.95 softbound Now $2.98
IMPRESSIONISM. By the Editors of Realites Pre
face by Rene Huyghe. Collection of Impressionistic art 
that captures the fervor of the revolutionary painters as 
they tumbled the bastion of academicism. Eight chapters of excellent text explores the social, cultural and 
political background of France; illustrates the protago
nists of the events described and the works of hundreds 
erf classicists reproduced in color. Index of painters; 
Bibliography, List of illustrations. lOi-4 x 12 page size. 
Orig. $35.00 Sale $22.98
THE ROYAL COOKBOOK. Pub. by Parents Mag
azine Press. Beautifully illustrated in color. A collection 
of favorite court recipes from the worlds royal families. 
In this day and age of diminishing kingdoms and 
rising republics, one fact remains: we all enjoy dining 
that is fit for a king. And that is exactly what this 
cookbook is all about. Most of the recipes are surpris
ingly simple and relatively easy to duplicate- Pub. at 
$12.50 Now $3.98
ENCYCLOPEDIA OF CREATIVE COOKING.
Ed. by C. Turgeon. 800 Full Color Photos. Huge, lav
ishly produced A to Z encyclopedia of culinary knowl
edge is packed with approx. 2000 sure-to-please recipes 
for appetizers, hors doeuvres, soups, main dishes, 
breads, salads, desserts, etc.  anything and everything 
to do with food. Incl. Sweet and Sour Brisket, Chicken 
Barley Bake, Flounder with Crab Stuffing, Stuffed 
Mushrooms, Yogurt Fudge, Tuna Waldorf Salad, 
Mushroom Shrimp Chowder, Coffe Filled Eclairs, 
hundreds more. 800 pages. 8!4 x 11. Pub. at $49.95 
Special Only $19.95

THE ORIGIN OF SPECIES by Charles Darwin. 
Nearly 100 illus. Superb new edition of the book that 
revolutioned the study of biology and permanently 
altered mans idea of his earthly origins. Distinguished 
as one of the most readable and accessable works of the 
scientific imagination ever written, this edition is exqui
sitely illus. with the work of the masterful 19th century 
engravers. Handsomely bound and stamped in simu
lated leather and gold. Special only $5.98
AGATHA CHRISTIE: FIVE COMPLETE HER 
CULE POIROT NOVELS. Here are five fascinating 
novels by the worlds most popular mystery writer, all 
featuring Hercule Poirot: Murder on the Orient 
Express, Thirteen at Dinner, The ABC Murders, Cards 
on the Table, and Death on the Nile. Pub. at $34.75 
Now $6.98
AGATHA CHRISTIE: FIVE COMPLETE MISS 
MARPLE NOVELS. Here are five of the ever-shrewd 
Miss Marples most intriguing cases, as told by the 
worlds most p>opular mystery writer The Mirror 
Cracked, A Caribbean Mystery, Nemesis, The Body in 
the Library, What Mrs. McGillicuddy Saw. $6.98
THE WORLD OF JAZZ. Rodney Dale. From its 
modest, ethnic roots along the Delta region of the U.S. 
to the heights of international contemporary acclaim, 
Jazz is an exciting, vibrant art with a wide open future, 
in THE WORLD OF JAZZ, Rodney Dale looks at the 
whole story of this music from its earliest New Orleans 
era, the Blues and Ragtime, through the Big Bands, 
Swing and Modem Jazz. He explains the basis of the 
different Jazz styles and how the roles of the music and 
its performers have changed over the years. Plus, excit
ing profiles on the luminaries of this dynamic art e.g. 
Billie Holiday, Duke Ellington, King Oliver, Louis 
Armstrong, Charlie Parker, John Coltrane, Benny 
Goodman Charles Mingus, Django Reinhart, an 
many, many more. Hundreds of illustrations through
out (many in full color). Measures W x 12*4". Ong. 
Pub. at $24.95 Only $12.98
Albert Einstein: RELATIVITY. Straightforward lay
mans explanation  written by Einstein himself  of 
the epoch-making theory that ushered in the atomic 
age. New, Complete ed. Only $2.98
APPALACHIAN WILDERNESS: The Great 
Smoky Mountains by Eliot Porter. 45 FULL 
COLOR PHOTOGRAPHS. This volume catches and 
holds the majestic beauty of the Appalachian wilder
ness. Veiled mountains, big woods, wild flowers, and 
highland streams are among the scenes, faithfully rep
roduced here in full color, that readers will return to 
again and again. Offers the beauty that comes from 
mans knowledge erf the natural world. This is a book 
to treasure and to be passed down from one generation 
to the next. (1 O'/i" x 14/4"). Pub. at $30.00 Only $14.98 

THE WORK OF HIPGNOSIS: WALK AWAY 
RENE. By the Hipgnosis Studio and George Hardie. A 
lavish and fascinating collection of Rock n Roll gra
phic art. This exquisite volume contains brilliant color 
reproductions of this unique art form and reflects the 
vitality of popular culture and music. There isnt any
thing else quite like it. Measures 95i" x 12'/i". Orig. Pub. 
at $25.00 Only $7.98

VEGETARIAN COOKBOOK, by Anna Lee. Over 
100 recipes from around the world. Organized to facili
tate menu planning for the strict vegitarian as well as 
those who wish to prepare an occasional vegetarian 
meal. Soups, salads, dips, main dishes, dressing, sauces, 
desserts, summer and winter menus, Health hints, met
ric and oven temperature guides, glossary, index. 8" x 
11" page size. 128 pages, 16 pages erf full color illustra
tions. SPECIAL VALUE $3.98
COSMIC LAUGHTER by J. Haldeman. Nine 
lively tales of science fiction. Pub. at $5.95. Now $1.98

---------------------------------------------------

November 4, 1980The TartanPage 21
My doctor pronounced me cored of cancer.
My boss
didn't
My boss didnt under
stand that I was healthy 
again.
So I was let go.
A lot of people are like 
my boss. They think that 
everyone dies of cancer. I 
thought so, too. Until the 
American Cancer Society, 
through one of its service 
and rehabilitation programs, 
helped me return to a 
normal life.
The ACS also has local 
Units that help Americans 
whove never had cancer 
understand it better.
Today, more and more, 
cancer is a curable disease. 
Ignorance about cancer is 
curable, too.
Volleyball team looks toward PWC playoff
THIS SHCE COmUBUTEO BY THE PUBLISHER AS A PUBLIC SERVICE
After a week that saw the Tartans even 
two matches and lose one in the Pennwood 
West Conference, the Camegie-Mellon Vol
leyball team is preparing for the PWC 
Championships to be held this Saturday at 
Bethany College.
The Tartans opened play last week 
against Bethany at the Skibo Gym. The 
Bisons won the match three games to one 
and never really gave the Tartans a chance to 
get untracked.
Thursday evening, the tables were turned 
as, after losing the first game of the match, 
the Plaid won three straight games by scores 
of 15-7, 17-15 and 15-1 to down St. Francis 
3-1. That match marked the return to the 
Camegie-Mellon line-up of sophomore 
Janet Szwarc who had sat out most of the 
season with ligament and cartilage damage 
in her knee. She played almost the entire 
match and played very well on the front line 
with Lia Keppeller and Liz Smith.
The Tartans were just as successful on 
Saturday as they downed Chatham by the 
same score of 3-1. They even completed the 
Tartans conference schedule, giving the 
Plaid a final mark of 4-2.
Camegie-Mellon expects their toughest 
compedtion on Saturday to come from the 
host school, Bethany, and Seton Hill. The 
tournament begins at 9:00 AM.
photo by Karen Schultz
CMUs Jennifer Castor (no. 12) and Liz Smith block a St Francis spike in last weeks match won by the Tartans 
3-1.
ADVERTISEMENT
ALL THE NEWS WORLDWIDE
HOME-DELIVERED 
LARGEST CLASSIFIED VOU ME
(213) 970-4986 
NORTHROP AIRCRAFT DIVISION OFFIC E% Hip (glnbp
SPANNING THE GLOBE^^f^^TIMELY REPORTING
IN FOl'R PARTS-S2 PAGES 
PART I-GENERAL NEWS-15 PAGES
VOL. LIX DAILY FIVE CENTSON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS November 7
Newest Northrop 
Fighter Advances 
F-5 Family March 24, 1980 - Hawthorne, California
The new generation of Northrops F-5 
family of low cost tactical fighter aircraft, 
the F-5G, was announced at Hawthorne 
today, stepping up a nearly 20-year 
evolutionary program for the company. 
The single-engined F-5G was conceived 
to meet world defense needs today and 
through the 1990s, and offers an affordable, 
supportable defensive system that keeps 
pace with the changing requirements for 
national security.
October, 1980
Northrop Aircraft is still designing and 
building high-performance aircraft today 
in the companys mile-long, modem com
plex in Hawthorne, California. For 40 
years, weve promoted the people associ
ated with our products and furnished 
one of the finest benefits packages avail
able in the industry including educational 
reimbursement for employees in an ac
credited graduate study program; a con
venient savings plan - for every dollar 
invested, Northrop contributes 50 per
cent; and generous vacations - including 
a week long Christmas holiday. In addition 
to a creative work environment you'll 
enjoy Southern Californias year round 
recreational paradise. And, Northrops 
recreation club sponsors many enjoy
able activities such as skiing, golf and 
fishing.
If your interests are in AERONAUTICAL, 
AEROSPACE, MANUFACTURING, 
MECHANICAL, OR ELECTRICAL 
ENGINEERING; COMPUTER SCI
ENCE; MATERIALS SCIENCE; or 
PHYSICS see Northrop today for your 
tomorrow.
Contact the placement office to schedule 
an appointment with a Northrop repreAircraft Division
sentative. If you can not meet with us at 
this time, please forward your resume to:
Employment Office 
Zone 1221-80 Dept. TS/CM 2815 El Segundo Blvd. 
Hawthorne, CA 90250
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H
NORTHROPMaking advanced technology work.

---------------------------------------------------

 WithCorningyou canchangecareers
Corning Glass offers you an 
opportunity thats hard to 
match. The chance to explore 
all your interests in one inno
vative work environment. At 
your own pace.
Corning is the No. 1 company 
in glass and glass-ceramics 
technology, with 60,000 pro
ducts and 71 plant facilities 
around the world.
The options are real and un
limited in such diverse engineeringdisciplinesas machine 
design, process development, 
melting technology, instru
mentation, control tech
nology, and computer science.
When you come to work for 
Corning, you can begin in your 
area of interest right away.
We figure youve earned the 
right to develop your potential 
on the job. And based on your 
performance you can move 
from discipline to discipline 
as you develop new interests.
To learn more about Corning, 
make an appointment to see 
our recruiters through the 
Placement Center.
withoutchangingcompanies
November 12,
1980
CORNING
Coming is an equal opportunity 
employer.
Corning Glass Works, 
Corning, New York 14830
1
Ji

---------------------------------------------------

Events.
November 6 
Thursday Film Arts
To Have And Have Not starring Humphrey 
Bogart and Lauren Bacall. Based on the 
Hemmingway novel of the same name, this 
film features Bogart as the American expat
riate, a professional fisherman named Harry 
Morgan working out of Vichy-controlled 
Martinique. He consistendy declines com
mitment to the free French course urged 
upon him by his friend, the local hotelier. 
Minding my own business is his unembar
rassed credo up until the point at which his 
sense of self is direcdy confronted by what he 
sees happening to those close to him. 6,8, 
and 10 in DH 2210. $1 with CMU ID.
November 7 
Friday Films
The Runner Stumbles starring Dick Van 
Dyke, Kathleen Quinlan and Maureen Sta
pleton. Based on an actual murder case, this 
is a suspenseful and intriguing mystery 
involving a Catholic priest accused of mur
dering* a young man in his parish. Set in 
1927, scenes of his trial alternate with flash
backs of increasing power demonstrating 
that Father Rivard and Sister Rita had a love 
affairone that gave the town of Solona 
much to gossip about. 6,8,and 10 in DH 
2210. $1 with CMU ID.theater
October 31 through November 23 
Poe
The Metropolitan Stage Companys (Metro) 
second production of the 1980-81 season is an 
original play by CMU grad Michael Cook. The 
production takes place at the Old Post Office 
Museum at Allegheny Center. Shows are Thurs
day through Sunday at 8. Admission is by dona
tion. There will be a reception after the play on 
opening night, Halloween, and the audience is 
invited to come in costume. 683-3993 for reserva
tions,______________________________________
October 23 through November 16 
Swellfoots Tears
A Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre Production. 
Suggested by the Oedipus Tragedy. A powerful, 
but not a pretty play, in the playwrights (Leon 
Katz) own words. At the Labs new home, The 
Lion Walk Performing Arts Center. Thursday 
through Sunday at 8 and Sunday at 2:30. 621- 
2876 for tickets and information.
October 31 through November 9 
Ruddigore
The Pittsburgh Savoyards presents their 84th 
production of a full length Gilbert and Sullivan 
opera at the Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre Cen
ter on Craft Ave. Performances are Fiid / and 
Saturday at 8:30, and Sunday at rhere will also 
be a performance on Wednesday, November 5 at 
8:30. There is a $2 student discount For tickets 
and information, call 361-0873.
October 30 through November 23
Dont Walk Around Stark Naked and The
Bald Soprano
Theatre Express presents two one act plays for 
the opening production of its 1980-81 season. 
The plays are French farces by Georges Fey
deau and Eugen Ionesco, respectively. 621- 
5454 for tickets and information.
November 7 through 30 
Cops
A production of the Fine Line Theater Com
pany, now in residence at the SoHo Repertory 
Theater. A hyper-realistic comedy/drama set in a 
Chicago diner. By Terry Curtis Fox. Shows are 
Friday, Saturday and Sunday evenings at 8:30. 
682-0458 for tickets and more information.
November 6 through 23 
The Robber Bridegroom
A production of the Point Park College Theatre 
Company. Loosely based on Eudora Weltys 
comic novella, and featuring a score of bluegrass 
ballads, country and folk tunes. Performances are 
Thursday through Sunday at 8 p.m. at the Pitts
burgh Playhouse Theatre Downstairs. 621-4445 
for tickets ($4 and $3) and reservations.
Special
November 6 
Sworddance
A popular forum fear the readings of student and 
faculty works. This falls first show consists 
mainly of poetry and fiction, and features the 
works of Paul Kameen (faculty), Dena Santoro 
and Caroline Toth. 4:30 in the Forbes Street 
Gallery.
November 7 and 8 
Dennis Miller
The Pittsburgh comedian will perform at the 
Mattress Factory (North Side), having recently 
returned from New York where he appeared at 
the Improv and the Comic Strip. For reserva
tions, information and directions call 231-3169.
film
SDC Films
November 8
FM, a movie which launched a very success
ful soundtrack featuring Steely Dan. 6,8,10 
and 12 in DH 2210. $.50 with CMU ID, $1 
without.
Pittsburgh Film-Makers
November 7
From the Goethe House
Willow Springs, directed by Werner Shreeter. 
Shot in the Mojave Desert, the story of three 
women acting out their ritualistic relation
ships in isolation. A study in passivity, exqui
site agony and sexual longings. 8:00 and 10:00 
p.m. at Pgh. Film-Makers, 205 Oakland Ave. $2.00.
caused by last issues incorrect listing.)
November 13 
Frank Zappa
DiCesare Engler Productions will present 
the Man from Montana, freak rode artist 
chi Thursday, November 13 at the down
town Stanley Theater. Zappa, currendy 
touring in support of his latest venture, Joes 
Garage Parts I and II, will perform two 
shows Thursday night. Tickets are availble 
at the Stanley box office and National 
Record Marts.
art
Campus Galleries
music
November 11
CMU Contemporary Ensemble
In the Alumni Concert Hall in the College ot 
Fine Arts. (The Tartan regrets any inconvenience
Margaret Bauman, Susan Benn and Karen 
Peterson
At the Forbes Street Gallery, Forbes Avenue at 
Margaret Morrison Street Gallery hours are 
Wednesday through Sunday, Noon to 4, and a 
Tuesday Night opening, with refreshments, 7 to 10.
Through November 6 
Barbara Schwartz
Sculpture and Paintings, in the Hewlett Gallery 
in the College of Fine Arts. Gallery Hours are 
Monday through Saturday, 10 to 4.
November 10 through 26 
3D Invitational Show.
Sculpture, Weaving, Glass, Metalwork 
Ceramics, in the Hewlett Gallery.
Through November 7 
John Bender
In the Ellis Gallery, in the College of Fine Arts 
Gallery hours are Monday through Friday 8:30 tc
5.
October 20 through March 13 
Kate Greenway
The English Victorian artist and illustrato 
will have her works displayed in the Hun 
Institute for Botanical Documentation 
located in the Penthouse of Hunt library 
Penthouse hours are Monday throgh Friday ! 
to 5 p.m. Free and open to the public.
FOR THOSE ONCBIN-A-UFET1ME SNAPSHOTS
MAKE SURE YOUR FILM IS IN THE RIGHT HANDS
At ASA  Photo we take great pride in the quality of our work. 
ASA Photo is the only photo processor in Pittsburgh that 
allows you to watch your own film being developed. So, whether 
youre a professional 35 MM photographer or a weekend snapper, 
ASA  Photos the place for you.
...... \ 
 v\*^ *
rw*-5  * . 
ASPPHOTO
Same day service on 
ektachrome film 
Fast, fast service on 
all other films. 
Glossy prints at no 
extra charge at all 
110,126,135 film. 
Instant color 
passports photos.
Ik PIf wavW 1(000 ^ toro good'look.il
3527 FORBES AVENUE 
681-1720 
If
Your station
wrcL88.3 stereo
Your music

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
Tickets are available at the Skibo Information 
Desk for the November 8 Pittsburgh Penguins vs. 
Detroit Red Wings hockey game. Regularly 
$10.00, they are being sold for $7.00. Game time is 
8 PM at Civic Arena.
For Sale: Facsimile First Folio Edition 
Shakespeare plays $35.00, Websters
International Dictionary, Second Edition-$55.00, 
Encyclopedia Ritanica 1947-$25.00, Oxford 
English Dictionary in 13 volumes-$100.00, Many 
language and an books. 421-2101.
TELETYPE FOR SALE. ASR 33 (has paper 
tape reader/punch, manuals). Good condition. 
$350. Call Bob, 422-0285 or 578-3048.
OAKLAND/SHADYSIDE-Charming one 
bedroom apartment with carpeting, appliances, 
parking and all utilities paid. Only $309.00, call 
today 682-7010.
OAKLAND/SHADYSIDE-ONE, TWO, 
THREE BEDROOM APARTMENTS 
AVAILABLE IN EXCELLENT BUILDINGS 
WITH CARPETING, APPLIANCES AND 
PARKING. UTILITIES PAID. 682-7070.
PROFESSIONAL JUGGLING INSTRUCTOR-Low rates, guaranteed results-all 
ages, all skill levels-if you can catch a ball, I can 
teach you to juggle-even juggling on roller 
skates! All equipment provided-1 lesson: $4.00 5 
lessons: $15.00. DONT DELAY! CALL ANDY 
EDELMAN AT 578-4724.
DANCES 6 week classes $18.00. Touch 
Dances 8c Free Styles Leam Dances Done 
Today! Disco-Rock-Funky-Latin Call Free 
Brochure 241-2162.
Moving and light hauling; campus based and 
reasonable. Call late evenings 687-3062.
Want it done right? Typing, editing, 
professionally prepared by a Ph. D graduate. 
Reports, manuscripts, theses, dissertations. 
Prompt, efficient, reasonable. IBM executive. 
Susan, 963-7558. Call after 4 PM.
Professional typing at reasonable rates. Special 
ize in last minute work. Dissertations, 
manuscripts, term papers, statistical, etc. Call
371-3657. 24 hr. service, IBM Selectric.
Cash: Wanted 10,000 Wrecks and Junkers, 23 
hr. 422-9968.
TYPING. Term papers, letters, dissertations, etc. 
Call Shirley, 521-0534, before 9 PM if possible.
Resume Development - Interview Technique
professional typing also available please call 
Jane at 3716 before 9:30 AM or 371-0946 after 6 
PM.
Used eletypes for sale. Model 33. $75 each. Call 
ext. 2835 between 9 and 5.
SILVER COINS WANTED! Highest prices in 
town paid for your silver coins. No amount too 
small. After 5 PM call 521-2749.
Dont forget to vote today! And please, cast your 
vote for anyone except Ray-gun.
SKYDIVING INSTRUCTIONS first jump 
course through advanced free fall technique. 
Sport of the space age. The ultimate rush. $65 
w/student ID. Group rates. North Hills area. 
Freedom skydivers 224-6624.
TYPING-Experienced, freelance secretary, 
papers, theses, correspondence, resumes, 
statistices etc. IBM Selectric II, 521-7888.
Student wanted for restaurant-counter help. 
Daylight or late evening. Starting rate: $3.50/hr. 
Apply: Original Hot Dog Shop, 3901 Forbes 
Avenue, Oakland.
Help Wanted: PART-TIME position availabel 
for college student to represent travel company 
on campus. Earn commission, free travel and 
work experience. Contact: Beachcomber Tours, 
Inc., 1325 Millersport Hgwy., Williamsville, 
N.Y. 14221. 716-632-3723.
Any Student (preferably workstudy) interested in 
working at the election poll in Skibo during the 
Student Senate Elections Nov. 19th and 20th
please contact Carol Marble at x4950. There is no 
limit to the number of hours which can be 
worked; Pays $3.10 and hour.
The Communications Skills Center offers free 
individual instruction for students at all levels 
and in all colleges wh need help with any aspect 
of writing. You can get tailor-made programs 
focused on specific writing and thinking skills, 
help in proparing and revising assignments, 
help with research projects, applications, and 
resumes, and computer-assisted instruction. Call 
or come in to make an appointment with a 
faculty member: 161 Baker Hall, x2924, Monday 
through Friday, 9:00 to 4:00.
Students interested in learning about study 
abroad with the American Institute for Foreign 
Study are invited to join in a discussion on
Tuesday, November 18, at 1:00 PM in BH 161. 
Early sign-up with Dean Lloyd will be 
appreciated.
Come dance! The English Country Dance and 
Song Society of Pittsburgh teaches the dances of 
England, New England and Appalachia. 
Sundays, November 2,16 and 23,6:30 to 9:30 PM. 
Sunday, November 9, 2:00 to 4:00 PM.
Lower Lounge of the Pitt Student Union, Fifth 
Avenue at Bigelow Blvd. No partner nor 
experience is necessary.
Sponsored by the English Room Committee of 
the University of Pittsburgh.
On Loss and Death, the fifth class session, 
continues this Wednesday evening at 7:30 PM 
(following Eucharist) at the Lutheran University 
center.
BUDDY RICH 
AND HIS ORCHESTRA
Saturday, November 8, 1980 
315 South Bellefield Ave 
Call 621-6500 
Tickets on sale now, $6.00
JEWISH COMMUNITY
PCfcNIOR
Whatever look is your look...
Vbu'll look better with a GreatX precision haircut !
Whatever look is you - you'll look better with a 
Great "X" Precision haircut. Great X's method 
of precision cutting means we cut -and shape 
your hair from the "inside out" so it looks 
better longer. Great X also specializes in perms, 
coloring, frosting and conditioning all at reason
able prices. Come into Great "X" today and 
see how much better you'll look tomorrow.
m
cjvtavnMsi
HAIRCUTS
(Wash-Cut-Blow)II00
Mon. Tue*. Wed. 10-7 
Thurs. Frl. 10-9
Sat. 9-6
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
COLORING
237 Atwood Street 
A crow the street from 
Oakland Pott Office 
687-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMANENTS
2500
No Appointments
The position of Student Body Treasurer is open.
Petitions are available at Skibo Information 
Desk. Twenty-five Activities Fee Paying students 
signatures must be obtained.
Explorers Club-Anyone who is interested in 
whitewater rafting, climbing, hiking, caving, 
backpacking, skydiving, hand gliding or any 
other outdoor activity is welcome. Meetings are 
on Thursdays at 6:30 PM. Skibo Rm. 11.
John Crecine, Dean of H&SS holds open office 
hours Tuesday, 1:30 to 3:30 PM.
The Students Dormitory Council meets every 
Wednesday night at 7 oclock in the Wherrett 
Room in Skibo. Everyone is encouraged to attend 
and participate.
PRESIDENT TO HAVE OPEN OFFICE 
HOURS FOR STUDENTS President Richard 
M. Cyert will have open office hours for students 
between 3 and 5 PM, in his office on Tuesday, 
November 4. Students who wish to meet with the 
president should telephone his office, 578-2200, 
to set up an appointment.
It is hop>ed that this program will be a benefit to 
both the president and the students in allowing 
direct contact with him.
A program on the current issue of hazardous 
waste management will be presented at the Sierra 
Club meeting, Wednesday, November 12th at 
7:30 PM in the Garden Center at Fifth and Shady. 
The public is invited.
TECHNICAL CAREERS CONFERENCE
NOV 22: You are invited to attend workshops on 
resume writing, summer job hunting, 
interviewing techniques, product liability, 
assertiveness training (for women only) and 
financial considerations after graduation. There 
will also be corporate booths which may be 
visited. The conference begins at 9:30 AM and is 
free. Sponsored by the Society of Women in 
Engineering.
ASCE Lecture Pr. Thomas Kerr of GSIA will 
give a talk on The Legal Implications for 
Engineers Wednesday, Nov. 5, at 4:30 PM in 
Porter Hall 123 H. He is presently the State 
Chairman of the Pennsylvania American Civil 
Liberties Union. A Happy Hour will follow.
Campus Program Planning Presents Film 
Series-Connections. Two showings 11:30 and 
1:30 in the Wherrett Room.
Wed. Nov. 5 Death in the Morning 
Wed. Nov 19 Distant Voices 
Wed Dec. 3 Faith in Numbers
