The Tartan
Volume 82, Issue 5Carnegie Mellon UniversitySeptember 29,1987
INSIDE
FEATURES................Page 11
Discover student Pugwash and learn 
how to avenge an annoying roomie
SPORTS..................Page 20
Coach Meckley's 200th win, ATO up
sets Pika, and tennis is rained out again
Campus Freedom of Speech Disputed
By CHRIS YOUNG
Tartan Staffwriter
During the past few weeks, concern has been 
growing among Carnegie Mellon faculty, staff 
and students about just who and what defines 
~ am pus freedom of speech.
Jonathan Pressler of the Philosophy Depart
ment and Kate Luxemburg of Administrative 
Systems have both voiced concerns in the 
September issue of Focus about the 
administrations policy on freedom of speech. 
In connection with their passing out leaflets 
raising questions about the SEI, both Pressler 
and Luxemburg have encountered conflict 
between what they thought was their right as 
members of the university to voice their opin
ions and what the administration sees as its 
duty to censor anything interrupting the nor
mal flow of business on campus, as Dean of 
Student Affairs, Brad Walter, phrases it.
According to Luxemburg, in Focus, On
Monday, Aug. 24, just as I gave away the last 
of the leaflets [about the SEI], a campus police 
officer approached me. She said, Weve had 
a complaint about you handing these things 
out A complaint about the leaflet, or a 
complaint about me? She looked away. My 
response to that look was a mildly paranoid 
feeling and a determination to show that I was 
doing nothing wrong. She asked for my name, 
phone extension, and office number, and 
asked whether I had my staff I.D. on me. 
Later Luxemburg writes, the officer said, 
There is no problem with free speech here. 
Everybody who wants to hand out anything, 
whether its pro the university or con the 
university, has to get permission from the 
Dean of Student Affairs first This is private 
property.
Pressler wrote, in the same issue of Focus, 
that he was told by Walter that the prior con
sent policy was intended to promote freedom
of speech by making sure that the campus was 
not overexposed to any one point of view. 
But Pressler does not accept this as being the 
true policy. According to him, There is a 
clear pattern in the administrations continu
ing efforts to restrict'speech and expression. 
So long as a messages content or form is 
innocuous, the university raises no objec
tions. But whenever critics of the university 
express their views in too public a way, the 
administration calls out its campus police. 
In addition to Pressler and Luxemburgs 
encounter with the universitys policy on free 
speech, Cheryl Sneed, a graduate student and 
member of Students Against Apartheid has 
also encountered difficulty voicing her views. 
According to Sneed, On September 11 at 
around 10:45 am while in front of Baker Hall 
distributing leaflets (which had already re
ceived approval through Student Affairs) 
about Apartheid, I was approached by a cam[Trailers 
Vandalized
By ANDY WEBER
Tartan Staffwriter 
The controversial GSIA trailers adja) cent to the S tudio Theater were defaced 
by unknown persons Sunday morning. 
Vandals spray-painted in large red let
ters across the ends of the four trailers, 
This is a crime and across the side of 
one trailer, Save the Wall.
That really is a tragedy, said Sandra 
Mawhinney, Assistant Dean of GSIA. 
GSIA installed the four trailers to deal 
^ with a lack of space. Mawhinney sym
pathized with people who see the trail
ers as eyesores, but finds vandalism an 
unacceptable solution.
A number of students see the incident
Van Mastrigt 
Gets Life
By KEI KURTTA
Tartan Staffwriter
Darrell Van Mastrigt, the former 
CMU student found guilty of killing a 
Robert Morris College student, was 
sentenced on the morning of September
22. After futile efforts by his attorney, 
Chas Scarlata, for the court to recon
sider, Van Mastrigt was given the sen
tence of life imprisonment.
Van Mastrigt, 19, was charged on July 
16 with murder of the first degree of 
Jeanne Goldberg, 20, of Squirrel Hill. 
Her body was found naked from the 
waist down in South Park the morning 
of February 8. The night before, Van 
Mastrigt attended a party in Hamerschlag House where he was living and 
started drinking. Later, he met Gold
berg at the Tartan Grill, spent some
continued on page 3
as a form of civil disobedience. I see the trailers 
as vandalism, said sophomore Todd Sanders. 
When asked about the vandalism, a group of 
people around the trailers applauded.
Some students view the action as unacceptable.
I think it is a ridiculous way of dealing 
with the problem, said student Greg 
Berry. Another said, I dont particularly 
like the trailers, but it is still vandalism. 
Security was unavailable for comment.
Art Students Outraged 
Over Studio Conditions
By JOSH RUBEN
Tartan Staffw riter
The Carnegie Mellon Art Department has 
come under attack by both students and faculty 
members this week following a lecture last 
Wednesday by Monona Rossol of Arts and 
Crafts Theater Safety (ACTS) in which she 
cited numerous safety hazards and potential 
violations after touring studios throughout the 
campus.
Rossol gave the lecture upon invitation by 
Glenn Kombrek, Dan Hendel, and Kate 
Temple, all students in the Art Department 
who have been quite critical of the 
Departments safety conditions. However, not 
all art students are up in arms over these condi
tions or what Rossol had to say. One under
graduate who wished to remain anonymous 
does not see any major problems. When I 
spray my hair in the morning its the same 
[fumes] as when I spray fixative on my paint
ings. She added that many artists use the same 
chemicals and materials in their homes as they 
do in the Departments studios, and they use
them the same way. I wouldnt want to have 
to put on a space suit to do a sculpture; it 
detracts from the art itself, she concluded.
Rossol has given many such lectures in 
which she cites problems in an art 
departments ventilation, storage, and dis
posal systems and then recommending pos
sible solutions. She is also an expert on the 
dangers of various chemicals and materials 
used by artists and recommends safer tech
niques or alternatives.
One of the most shocking comments Rossol 
made in her lecture came in relation to venti
lation systems and fire safety standards. A lot 
of these studios would be shut down immedi
ately if OSHA [Occupational Safety and 
Health Administration) ever investigated 
them.
OSHA spokesman, Ed Selker, stated that, 
[OSHA] has never had any complaints from 
anyone at Carnegie Mellon before." Based on 
its policies and guidelines, OSHA cant le
gally [investigate Carnegie Mellons Art De
continued on page 5
pus security officer who, stopping his car on 
Frew Street, shouted, What do you think 
youre doing here? I then walked over to his 
car, and he said, You cant do this here...this is 
private property. So, I told him that I was a 
student and asked him if he wanted to see my 
I.D. He said, You cant do this...you cant give 
out anything about SEI. So, then I told him 
that I wasnt distributing anything about the 
SEI, I was for Students Against Apartheid, and 
I showed him my leaflet And then he asked 
again if the leaflet concerned SEI. I told him to 
look at it, and the dispatcher on the radio says, 
Is that person out there speaking against the 
SEI?...Its considered a nuisance for her to be 
distributing leaflets about the SEI. Finally, the 
security officer, after checking out my leaflet 
and agreeing that it was about Apartheid, let me 
continue. Apparently they didnt consider 
anyone a nuisance unless they were handing
continued on page 3
Semester Shift Update
Airline Offers 
Ticket Trade
By RUSS SELIGMAN
Tartan Editor-in-Chief 
Students and staff who were afraid that a 
change in travel arrangements resulting from 
the spring 1988 semester shift would cause 
them a financial loss may have nothing to 
worry about.
Any ticket for a flight to Pittsburgh on USAir 
between January 1-12, 1988 may be ex
changedwithout penaltyfor another 
ticket to Pittsburgh on any other day between 
January 1-12, provided the original ticket was 
purchased prior to October 1, 1987.
"We really appreciate what USAir has done 
for us, said Maryann P. Moore, Director of 
Special Events. Moore contacted USAir after 
several students approached her with com
plaints that they would have to pay airline 
penalties in order to change their travel ar
rangements to accommodate the new spring 
1988 calendar.
Members of the Carnegie Mellon commu
nity who wish to exchange their tickets should 
call (412) 922-7500, USAirs reservation 
number. They will need to know the name 
appearing on the ticket, the travel date, the 
flight number, and the special code AC544A. 
Anyone who purchased their ticket from a 
travel agency should report back to that 
agency with the above information and have 
the travel agent change the flight.
Moore encourages anyone who still has 
problems (i.e., flights on other airlines) to 
contact her at x5052.
Spring 1988 Calendar Changes:
FEATUURSE.PPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPagEegA1 OO
20Ap. rg1 Ti nUgppSpPPPPPPPPPPagEegA1 O9
80ClpSRSp.SA dASghPPPPPPPP2SsAegA1 9:
HBA0EL dASghPPPPPPPPP8gAK 9N mBA0U O
HBA0EL ngAE0GgUPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPmBA0U Ot
ySgC0EL rg1pPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPP8g1 93 t
20EgUpPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPP8g1 73 w3 3 :lOO
oAgCeg.0TEPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPP8g1 Ow
HeRRSA HSpp0TE dSL0EpPPPPPPPP8g1 O

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanSeptember 29,1987
PPv-N', /iff* I 11
wmin  w wwi If Ml/ \wi*
National
/ Benson
cTAUC
fSkp
U.S. Attacks Iranian 
Ship in Persian Gulf
MANAMA, Bahrain (AP)  The U.S. heli
copter attack last Monday on an Iranian ship 
planting mines in the Persian Gulf killed four 
Iranian crewmen. Pentagon officials said. Iran 
vowed the attack will not go unanswered.
It was the deadliest U.S. strike against Iran 
since the Reagan Administration began ex
panding the American presence in the gulf in 
July in an effort to protect Kuwaits tankers 
and keep the oil shipping lanes open.
U.S. Navy forces picked up Iranian crewmen 
from a life boat, including four wounded, 
according to the Pentagon.
Navy personnel found 10 mines on the at
tacked ship, the Iran Ajr, the Pentagon said. 
The amphibious landing craft was attacked 50 
miles northeast of Bahrain in international 
waters. Pentagon and White House officials
Tehran claimed the ship hit by U.S. helicop
ters was an unarmed cargo vessel and Iranian 
Parliament Speaker Hashemi Rafsanjani 
categorically denied it was laying mines, 
according to Irans official Islamic Republic 
News Agency.
Defense Secretary Caspar W. Weinberger, 
interviewed last week, said the navy will re
lease the detained Iranian crew members for 
repatriation within a few days.
Weinberger, on afive-day,trip to the Persian 
Gulf region, said the Iranian minelayer dis
abled and captured by U.S. forces would be
destroyed in the most effective way pos
sible.
Friday U.S. sailors placed explosives aboard 
the Iran Ajr, towed it to deep waters, and 
detonated the charges, sinking the ship.
Ortega Announces 
Partial Cease-fire
MANAGUA, Nicaragua (AP)  President 
Daniel Ortega said the government would start 
a partial truce and withdraw troops to desig
nated areas to open the way to a total cease-fire 
with U.S.-supported Contra rebels.
We are working on concrete actions to 
make known the first zones where the cease
fire will be declared, Ortega said. He said the 
locations of the designated areas would be 
announced but did not specify a timetable.
At the news conference, the leftist govern
ment also announced that Radio Catolica, the 
Roman Catholic church radio station, could 
reopen immediately. Last week the opposition 
newspaper la Prensa was allowed to resume 
publication.
The announcements were the latest in a se
ries of government moves to comply with a 
Central American peace plan Ortega and the 
presidents of El Salvador, Honduras, Costa 
Rica and Guatemala signed on Aug. 7.
The plan calls for an end to outside military 
aid to insurgencies. It would require verifica
tion of a cease-fire and negotiations by Nov. 7.
The unilateral cease-fire offered by Ortega 
was rejected as inadequate by White House 
officials, who won some support from Costa 
Rican President Oscar Arias Sanchez.
I dont think a unilateral cease-fire would be 
enough. Both parties have to agree," said 
Arias, referring to efforts to end the conflict 
between Nicaraguas leftist Sandinista gov
ernment and the U.S.-backed Contra rebels.
Sen. Biden Pulls Out 
Of Presidential Race
WASHINGTON (DJ)  Sen. Joseph Biden, 
D-Del., announced Wednesday that he is with
drawing from the race for president.
Ive concluded that I will stop being a can
didate for president of the United States, 
Biden told a packed news conference on 
Capitol Hill.
Biden said that handling the chairmanship of 
the Senate Judiciary Committee, which is 
currently holding confirmation hearings on 
the nomination of Judge Robert Bork to the 
Supreme Court, and running for president 
under increased pressure would be impos
sible. He said he had a choice between running 
for president and doing his job, and chose the 
latter.
In my zeal to rekindle ... idealism, I made 
some mistakes, the senator said in reference 
to charges that he used quotations from other 
public figures without attribution. Biden was 
also hurt by revelations that he plagiarized 
legal works while he was in law school.
Poll Says More Oppose 
Bork Than Back Him
WASHINGTON  More Americans op
pose Judge Robert Borks elevation to the 
Supreme Court than favor it, and the people 
who say they know the most about him are the 
most opposed to him, according to a new
national Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll.
The survey of 1,544 adults conducted on 
Monday and Tuesday of last week found that 
42% oppose his confirmation, while 34% 
favor it and 24% arent sure. Among those 
who have read or heard a lot about Bork, 
negative opinion was even stronger: 53% of 
that group said Bork shouldnt be confimed 
and 38% said he should. ^
Thrity-nine percent of those polled agreed 
with the statement that Bork is too conserva
tive to be an effective member of the Supreme 
Court, while 34% agreed that his conserva
tive views will be an important addition to the 
courts.
Local
News
Amish Farmers Protest 
Proposed Pa. Highway
INTERCOURSE, Pa. (AP)  Despite being^ 
surrounded by sightseers, Pennsylvania's 
Amish farmers usually manage to avoid poli
tics, but proposals for a four-lane highway 
through their farmland have stirred them to 
action.
About 1,500 Lancaster County residents, i 
two-thirds Amish attended a meeting on the I 
$100 million, 20-mile project. It was the larg
est crowd of county Amish ever gathered. ^
News Briefs appear courtesy
of Dow Jones Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

September 29,1987The TartanPage 3
CMU Student Plans Appeal
continued from page 1
time at several fraternity parties, and went 
to the O. Upon returning to campus, they 
had sex in Goldbergs car, and drove to 
South Park where he stabbed her numerous 
times. The next morning, Van Mastrigt vol
untarily provided information to the 
County Police and was arrested.
At the sentencing, the atmosphere of Van 
Mastrigt and Scarlata was that of hopeless
ness as Scarlata tried to bring up a few last 
points to the Common Pleas Judge Robert 
E. Dauer before the sentence wap handed 
down. The lawyer emphasized that the 
accused was so intoxicated with drugs and 
alcohol that he couldnt have consciously 
realized what he was doing at the time. 
However, the court rebutted this by stating 
that the fact that Van Mastrigt was able to
recall his actions the following morning 
made him accountable for the felony. Scar
lata then tried to clarify a reference to the 
occult by identifying a mural on [Van 
Mastrigt's] wall as a record album by 
Ozzy Osmond [Ozzy Osborne].
These actions were to no avail as Van 
Mastrigt was told, There is nothing that 
you can do to mitigate punishment.
After the sentence was given, Scarlata 
stated to Judge Dauer that Van Mastrigt 
expressed some dissatisfaction with my 
performance, and wished to have an attor
ney appointed to him by the court free of 
charge for the appealing of the case to the 
Superior Court of Pennsylvania.
The Board of Pardons will determine 
whether or not Van Mastrigt will be eli
gible for parole, and if so, when.
Crecines Departure Prompts Administrative Reorganization
By NATALIE CAPONE
Tartan Staffer iter 
With the resignation of Vice President of 
Academic Affairs Patrick Crecine,'the Ad
ministration has begun a reorganization proc
ess that Provost Angel Jordan says will en
hance the undergraduate experience at Car
negie Mellon. The changes include a re-divi
sion of power, as well as the development of a 
more University-wide Deans Council.
Under the new system, which Jordan said is 
basically in effect, but will formally begin on
November 1st, when Crecine begins his new 
post as President of Georgia Tech, all vice 
presidents will report directly to President 
Richard Cyert, and Jordan will oversee all 
academic units as well as the Deans Council. 
Previously, some of the vice presidents and
U.S. Establishes Ties With Mongolia
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan Assistant News Editor 
In a few months the United States will open 
a mission in the most remote capital in the 
world, Ulan Bator. The move is part of diplo
matic maneuvering by the three major super
powers that has caused the Mongolian 
Peoples Republic to be dubbed the pawn of 
geopolitics.
Though negotiations first began in 1972, the 
U.S. did not establish formal relations with
Mongolia until January. One of the first cul
tural exchanges between the two countries 
will occur this week at CMU. (See related 
article on the front page of Diversions).
Why is the State Department opening a 
mission now, when budget cuts have forced 
the closing of seven U.S. consulates in 1986 
and seven more this ypar? .
' The' bureaucrats down ift : Fog'gy: Bottom 
make no bones about their ulterior motives in 
Mongolia. They want a listening post and
Mongolianestled in between both the So
viet Union and Chinais the perfect place to 
keep a close eye on the two largest Communist 
countries.
But dont look for James Bond to be traipsing 
among the yurts of the capital. The U.S. wont 
have an embassy for at least two years; the 
mission will operate out of a hotel. Tempera
tures in the capital can reach 45 degres below 
zero, so diplomats will get a 25% hardship 
bonus in their pay.
They wont have much company in Ulan 
Bator. Other than Soviet bloc nations, only 
Britain, Japan, China, and India have diplo
mats in the capital.
The opening of ties comes at the same time as 
Soviet Leader Mikhail Gorbachev has been 
trying to use Mongolia to woo the Chinese. 
Last spring the Soviets withdrew one division 
of military forces that had been based there. 
Before the withdrawal, an estimated 60,000 
troops were in Mongolia as part of the Soviet 
Unions defense along the Chinese border.
The links between the Soviet Union and 
Mongolia have been strong since a large Red 
Army contingent liberated the capital in July, 
1921. Russian troops have been present since 
1966 after the Sino-Soviet split and the begin
ning of the Cultural Revolution in China.
Mongolia has all of the trappings of a Sovietstyle government: a secret police, collective 
farms, and a coordinated economy. Moreover, 
the language has been written in Cyrillic script 
since 1945.
Even though Mongolia may be considered a 
pawn now, its importance should not be dis
counted. Genghis Khan and his heirs con
quered China and extended the Mongol Em
pire to eastern Europe.
SEI Sparks Concern Over Freedom
out material about the SEI.
Campus Security denies any mention about 
the SEI during Sneeds questioning.
Brad Walter declares that members of the 
academic community have a right to protest 
anything they want unless they obstruct cam
pus walkways or make obscenities. Student 
Affairs must be shown what literature is being 
distributed in order to make sure it passes these 
requirements. A few years ago, we were con
fronted by one man who said that all he wanted 
to do was give a little Christian message to all 
the students. We told him that what he wanted 
to do was all right. But a couple hours later, he 
was running up and down Baker Hall banging 
on the classroom doors with a large wooden 
cross.
Dean Walter feels that what happened to
Sneed was that Campus Security was being a 
little overprotective. They were asked to make 
sure Student Affairs knows what views are 
being presented on campus. But there was just 
some miscommunication in Sneeds case. 
For people curious about handing out litera
ture on campus, Walter says, They should let 
Student Affairs know what they are handing 
out. Because, if they dont, then Security will 
ask them anyway whether Student Affairs 
knows about what they are handing out. If the 
person says no then Security should imme
diately make sure that Student Affairs finds 
out about it. Dean Walter reiterates that he 
wants to know whsfts going on. He defi
nitely thinks that there should be more politi
cal views voiced on campus, especially in light 
of the coming elections.
Pressler, however, in his letter in Focus,
says that the administration's attitude is 
unacceptable. It is time for the university to 
formulate and abide by a consistent, explicit, 
and public policy that protects and encourages 
freedom of expression on campus. Naturally, 
such a policy would protect those who make 
the administration nervous by openly and 
repeatedly questioning the wisdom or moral
ity of official decisions.
Because of all the turmoil involving campus 
freedom of speech. Faculty Senate has di
rected its committee on Faculty Affairs, 
headed by Professor Subhash Mahajan, to 
investigate the issue and try to dig up some 
kind of formal document of the universitys 
policy on free speech. The Faculty Senates 
next meeting is scheduled for October 15, and 
the Faculty Affairs committee will make their 
presentation on this issue at that date.
departments were under Crecine's direction, 
with the rest divided between Jordan and 
Cyert. The new arrangement will have a clear 
and efficient line of authority.
It will be more streamlined, Jordan said of 
the new system. Speaking about the division 
of responsibility between him and Crecine, 
Jordan said, Sometimes the lines were 
fuzzynow they'll be clear. All other institu
tions in the country have only one chief aca
demic officer."
As before. Vice President of Business Af
fairs Fred Rogers, Vice President of Develop
ment A1 Brannock, and Vice President of 
University Relations Keith Moore will be 
directly under Cyerts administration. Bill 
Arms, Vice President of Academic Services, 
who previously reported to Crecine. will now 
work directly with the President as well.
One of the biggest changes was in the role of 
William Elliott. Previously Vice President of 
Enrollment, Elliotts new title will he Vice 
President of Student Affairs. The new position 
will encompass the Dean of Student Affairs, 
the Athletic Department, the Teaching Center, 
and the Quality of Life office, as well as 
Elliotts prior responsibilities of Admissions, 
Financial Aid, Registrar, Career Services, 
International Student Program, Summer Pro
grams, C-MAP, and R^OTC.
. .The Quality of Life office will be responsible 
for studying the recommendations of the 
Quality of Life Task Force and implementing 
their suggestions, said Jordan! They will 
work closely with the Deans Council.
The Deans Council is another expansion of 
the new plan. Consisting of deans and depart
ment heads, the Council has existed as a forum 
to exchange information between the Deans, 
Provost, and President, said Jordan. But 
now it will take on a University-wide func
tion, with such committees as Educational 
Policy. Research Policy, Corporate Relations, 
Computing Policy, Government Relations, 
Strategic Planning, Quality of Life. Economic 
Development, Graduate Programs. Intellec
tual Property, and Academic and Business 
Affairs. Many of these tasks will work "on a 
continuum basis, explained Jordan, While 
others will be solved and we can go on to 
another agenda. The motivation for these 
added responsibilities came with the realiza
tion that The University does reasonably 
well, but it does not have firm, well-articulated 
policies. Instead of Cyert. Jordan and Rogers 
doing things at random, we'll have policies of 
how to do things well. He continued. "The 
Council will allow us to fill in the cracks 
between departments that are now compart
mentalized. We want to make them uniform 
and of a high quality."
The position of Provost will also be changed. 
Jordan will take responsibility for all of the 
academic units, which includes every college, 
Mellon Institute, Robotics Institute, and the 
Software Engineering Institute, as well as the 
Deans Council and Faculty Senate. The ViceProvost for University Studies (Preston 
Covey), Associate Provost for Research and 
Academic Administration (Anne Sigerstad), 
and Associate Provost for Human Resource 
Development and Equal Opportunity (Nor
man Johnson) will also report directly to Jor
dan.
This will mean that the President will have 
more functions, said Jordan. Hell have to be 
more on top of certain things, and he will have 
to delegate the responsibility. I, as Provost, 
will also have more to do, but the Deans 
Council will take up some of the slack.
1 feel very good about this, said Jordan. 
The student will see significant changes: in 
the quality of life, coordination in undergradu
ate programs, better advising, the impact of 
research on education. I promise that the 
undergraduate experience will be enhanced.

---------------------------------------------------

Student Senate Office Hours
Student Senate represents the main link on campus 
between students and faculty/administration. In order 
for us to be effectiue we must be able to listen to other 
students' suggestions and/or complaints. This is why 
each senator holds office hours once a uieek in the 
Student Senate office - Room 59 Skibo. Our schedule 
for the fall semester is listed below. So why not stop 
by sometime and let us know what's on your mind???
* denotes committee chairman

---------------------------------------------------

September 29,1987The TartanPage 5
Rossol Cites Art Department Health Violations
continued from page 1
partment] based solely on complaints from the 
students, according to Selker. Investigations 
are based strictly on an employer-employee 
relationship, said Selker. We can get in
volved if a teacher or faculty member lodges a 
complaint. Even in this case, OSHA would 
still rather have the school solve any problems 
on its own. Selker added, We only come in if 
there is no in house solution.
By citing many of these problems, Rossol 
mainly heightened the awareness of the stu
dents and teachers of the Art Department and, 
according to several students and teachers, 
made them both frightened and mad. Dan 
Hendel, for example, was quite adamant in his 
opinion on the inadequacy of the ventilation 
system in the Silk Screen studio in one of the 
basement rooms in Doherty Hall. Theyre 
square! stated Hendel, referring to the fact 
that the ducts are square shaped and not 
rounded as they should be according to 
Rossols lecture. With the square ducts, the 
fumes and vapors from the chemicals in the 
studios are not drawn out of the studios as 
efficiently as they would be with rounded 
ducts, according to Hendel. Rossol explained 
the reason for this type design in the studios is 
because the systems were designed by refrig
eration and heating designers instead of venti
lation designers.
Art Department faculty member, John Beckley, stated simply that, All of the studios 
should have better ventilation. Beckley 
commented on the fact that many of the studios 
have 10 to 15 students working at one time 
when the ventilation systems are only 
equipped to deal with a maximum of 5 stu
dents. However, Beckley does not think the 
problem warrants cutting down the sizes of the 
classes. The [ventilation] systems were inef
ficient when they were first put in, said Beck
ley, The fan belts are constantly 
breaking...the systems require a lot of serv
ice.
On a tour of the basement of Doherty, Beck
ley showed how the studios draw in air from 
research labs on the same level. He said that 
most of the fumes the labs put out can be 
considered hazardous. Sometimes, this thing 
is even on, he exclaimed as he showed off a 
vent leading from a lab right out into the hall 
which is the prime source of fresh air for most 
of the art studios.
In addition to the ventilation problems, 
Rossol also explained how many of the paints, 
inks, and other materials used by artists can be 
quite dangerous. Were switching to water 
based inks next semester, said Beckley in
regard to the inks used by the silk-screening 
artists. According to Rossol, oil based inks, 
which are currently in use by the department, 
are not as good as water based inks which do 
not carry the dangerous fumes as do the oil 
based. One of the most dangerous chemicals 
used by artists is turpentine. According to art 
student Mary Murphy, You would have to 
use gloves and change them every 15 minutes 
to prevent [turpentine] from getting into your 
skin., .and even then youre not safe.
The Art Department has begun to take steps 
to solve the problems. According to Depart
ment Head, Orville M. Winesand, each profes
sor will write down hazards that they see 
within the studios and then submit them to the 
department for inclusion in a 5 year renova
tion plan. In addition to this, 10 new steel 
waste disposal barrels have been ordered to 
prevent students from throwing used chemi
cals into the sinks and damaging plumbing. 
The department is also ordering non-re
moveable no-smoking signs, to insure that 
students will get the message that smoking is 
prohibited around certain chemicals and mate
rials in the studios.
Included with these immediate and long 
range plans, Beckley recommends that the 
school spend $1000 on a mandatory course 
for art students to teach them aboutsafety. He 
commented that basic housekeeping prac
tices by the students and teachers are some of 
the best ways to keep people safe in the stu
dios. He added that Even though some 
people do work hard to keep things safe...the 
school needs to put in the money. Beckley 
explained how he had to work for 18 months in 
order for the school to replace asbestos insu
lated steam pipes and frequently rattled and 
rained the asbestos down onto the students.United Way Kicks Off 1987 
Carnegie Mellon Fundraiser
By CHRIS CULVER
Tartan Staffwriter
The United Way of Southwestern Pennsyl
vania began its 1987 Carnegie Mellon fun
draiser last Friday in the GSIA building.
Three United Way officials spoke to Indus
trial Management graduate students about 
what the organization is, how it works, and the 
need for continual and growing support. 
According to David Fields, a graduate student 
at GSIA and the spokesperson for the organiz
ing group, the purpose of the CMU campaign 
was to expose business students to UW before 
they enter the work force and to get them to 
become socially responsible.
Recently, the UW Pittsburgh branch has 
suffered with the decline of large area indus
tries, US Steel being the largest, and many col
leges showed little interest in UW activities. 
CMU was the first university to invite UW to 
begin a campus fundraiser.
Although the United Way is publicly known, 
many people are unfamiliar with its functions. 
United Way of Southwestern Pennsylvania is 
a fundraising organization for more than 140 
agencies in the area, such as the YMCA, 
Multiple Sclerosis research, and elderly care. 
The purpose of UW is to centralize the fun
draising for all these causes. Since it is primar
ily run by volunteers, it is also the most cost 
effective way to raise money for them, with 
more than 90# for every dollar going to the 
charities.
nA0RS gEC (EK0CSE. ySBTA.4 :)ON .T :)97
9/18 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 11:24 pm
S igma Nu brothers allegedly pounded on a 5x3 
foot window in the Kappa Sigma house, put
ting a hole in the glass. When asked about the 
incident, the Sigma Nu brothers insisted that 
Kappa Sigma started the trouble by throwing 
eggs at their house.
9/19 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 3:52 am 
CMU police were called to Panther Hollow 
bridge where three juveniles were caught with 
Cushman cart.
9/19 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 4:30 pm 
Pittsburgh police caught three juveniles at 
Forbes and Murray stealing a Cushman cart 
Were later released.
9/20 DISORDERLY CONDUCT 3:32 am 
Security received call about disturbance in 
fraternity area. Upon arrival, found extensive 
evidence of large scale food fight and gazorching between the Sigma Nu and Kappa Sigma 
houses. Brothers finally returned to respective 
houses after a while.
9/22 HARASSMENT 9:35 am Student 
walking up Forbes towards campus was fol
lowed by a suspicious white male, approxi
mately 26 years old, 6* 2", with thin build and
Bruce Thomas, Vice Chairman of USX and 
also chairman of the regions 1987 fundraising 
campaign, said that President Cyert personally 
accepted a leadership role in this years local 
campaign. Currently there are 31 United Way 
volunteers at CMU.
In the past, the community looked toward the 
federal government for many of its charity 
funds. The United Way and other non profit 
organizations made up the remainder. Due to 
many cutbacks, federal funds have diminished 
recendy and the burden has fallen on the non 
profit sector. If you are interested in contribut
ing time or money, you can contact the United 
Way at : The United Way of Southwestern 
Penn., 200 Ross Street, P.O. Box 735, Pitts
burgh, PA. 15230, (412) 261-6010
rTk fSkp HSAG0KS 
mGg0UgsUS 6EU0ES
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan Assistant News Editor 
A contract signed four months ago by 
Dow Jones and Carnegie Mellon allows 
access to the Dow News Service through 
Andrew and lets the publishing com
pany peek at research here.
According to Thomas E. Neudecker, 
Assistant Vice President for Academic 
Affairs, the agreement is a product of a 
wedding of an alumni. About a year ago 
Senior Vice President Patrick Crecine 
was introduced to an alumnis brother 
who works at Dow Jones.
After establishing that both institu
tions had mutual interests in technol
ogy and research problems, a series of 
meetings occurred prior to signing the 
contract.
Neudecker said Dow Jones has agreed 
to support one graduate student at CMU 
and provide the news service in ex
change for keeping abreast of research 
in natural language processing. In addi
tion, Dow Jones is also paying CMU for 
access to the research. I dont want to 
disclose the figure, but there is cash at 
hand, said Neudecker.
In addition to the bulletin boards avail
able through Andrew, ITC will set up a 
database of the postings, which would 
be incorporated into the University Li
braries database. Full text searching 
would be available through the system.
Over seventy bulletin boards are avail
able on Andrew. They range from gen
eral world and national news to news of 
the textile industry. Primarily, the 
boards are government and financial 
news.
greasy blond hair, wearing a red windbreaker 
jacket, and extra-long blue work pants. Stu
dent was followed into Morewood whereupon 
she was asked a series of embarrassing per
sonal questions. Man last seen lurking around 
southwest comer of E-Tower.
9/22 THEFT 12:41 pm Persons unknown 
stole a Panasonic VHS video color camera and 
keyboard from Baker Hall. Valued at $1122.
9/22 BURGLARY 4:26 pm Persons un
known pilfered a 12" color television and CPX 
dual cassette tape player/radio from Roselawn 
Terrace apartment. No value set
9/23 THEFT 11:43 am Unknown persons 
took a brown, wood-grain wall speaker 
mounted atop a wall screen in PH. $200.
9/23 BURGLARY 2:22 pm Person in Carol 
apartments saw a black male, 6' 0", with thick 
moustache, tan jacket, and blue jeans enter 
neighbors apartment via the fire escape win
dow. Soon afterwards the suspect was seen 
leaving frontdoor with 19" television set Left 
scene in brown car. Licence plate number 
reported to Security. STILL AT LARGE.
9/23 BURGLARY 9:15 pm B/W TV and 
jewelry box stolen from Spirit house.
SLEPT WITH ANYONE NEW 
LATELY?
WHIM 1
THERE ARE FOUR DIFFERENT SLEEPING BAG 
WEEKENDS THIS FALL:
OCTOBER 11-12 (CIT/MCS) 
OCTOBER 25-26 (H&SS) 
NOVEMBER 8-9 (CFA) 
NOVEMBER 15-16 (CIT/MCS)
YOUR NAME.
DORM_____
ROOM #____
BOX#
MAJOR
PHONE
CIT/MCS WEEKEND OCTOBER 11-12 
I WOULD LIKE TO HOST______STUDENTS
WOULD LIKE TO ESCORT STUDENTS ON SUNDAY
H&SS WEEKEND OCTOBER 25-26 
I WOULD LIKE TO HOST____STUDENTS
__I WOULD LIKE TO ESCORT STUDENTS ON SUNDAY
CFA WEEKEND NOVEMBER 8-9
I WOULD LIKE TO HOST STUDENTS
I WOULD LIKE TO ESCORT STUDENTS ON SUNDAY
CIT/MCS WEEKEND NOVEMBER 15-16
____I WOULD LIKE TO HOST________STUDENTS
___I WOULD LIKE TO ESCORT STUDENTS ON SUNDAY
Please return to the Admissions office or phone x2082.

---------------------------------------------------

TECHNICAL
OPPORTUNITIES
CONFERENCE
A conference where students from all academic disciplines are
invited to come and talk freely and informally with company representatives.
Thursday, October!, 1987
10:00 - 4:00 Skibo Ballroom and Wherrett Room
The Aerospace Corporation * Air Products and Chemicals * 
Alcoa * Armco * AT&T * Bell Communications Research * 
BBN Laboratories * LTV * ATSDR * Calgon * Oracle *Control 
Data * IBM * Digital Euipment * Dow Chemical * Honeywell * 
Lawence Livermore * Eastman Kodak * Singer/Kearfott 
General Motors * NCR * General Electric * Good Year Tire 
and Rubber * Gencorp * Wheeling Pittsburgh Steel * Unisys * 
Johns Hopkins-Applied Physics Lab * Westinghouse R&D * 
Lockheed Missiles & Space * Martin Marietta* Vista Chemical 
R.R. Donnelly & Sons * Dupont * Hewlett Packard * United 
Technologies * Microsoft * O'Conner and Associates * Olin 
Chemicals * McDonnell Aircraft * National Semiconductor * 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency * Texas Instruments* 
Procter and Gamble * Morgan Guaranty Trust * Merck & Co. * 
Sanders Associates * U.S. Navy
Sponsored by the student sections of S.W.E. and I.E.E.E

---------------------------------------------------

6EU0ES nTRBe.0EL -TkSA iATR 
nTRBeHSAGS -e.pYou mSgC Ti .S y0KhP
(E.ATCeK0EL -gpp0EL oSgA iATR 
nTRBeHSAGS3 .5 kTAUCJp UgALSp. TEU0ES 
BSApTEgU 0EiTARg.0TE pSAG0KSP
fT Rg..SA kg. .1BS Ti KTRBe.SA 1Te 
gGS3 nTRBeHSAGS .eAEp 0. 0E.T g igp.3 
ASpBTEp0GS ASpTeAKS .g. L0GSp 1Te 0EKASC0sUS 
gCGgE.gLSpP
FpBSK0gUU1 ETk3 k0US g nTRBeHSAGS 
pespKA0B.0TE 0p gGg0UgsUS .T p.eCSE.p g. pBSb
K0gU pgG0ELpP
8ghS ,TeA 6kE dASghp
6EKS TEU0ES3 nTRBeHSAGS pespKA0sSAp 
.gUh ugKATpp .S .gsUSv k0. UeR0EgA0Sp U0hS 
ge.TA (pggK mp0RT1 gA.0i0K0gU 0E.SUU0LSEKS 
ASpSgAKSA 8gAG0E 80Eph13 pBgKS pe..US 
gp.ATEge. gEC SEL0ESSA aTpSB mUUSE gEC 
Rep0K0gEp oASL D0E gEC MSAs0S MgEKTKhP
cA0.SAp gEC SC0.TAp3 ASpSgAKSAp gEC 
.SgKSAp3 USgCSAp 0E sep0ESpp gEC LTGSAEb
RSE.3 SE.SABA0p0EL p.eCSE.p gEC p.eCSE. 
SE.ASBASESeApP ,TeJUU RSS. .SR gUU TE 
nTRBeHSAGS3 kSAS .S 0EiTARgU 0E.SAG0Sk 
0p .S Eg.eAgU kg1 .T LS. gATeECP
oS. 2gK.p 2gp.
nTRBeHSAGS KTEESK.p 1Te .T ASiSASEKS 
ASpTeAKSp 1Te kTEJ. i0EC gE1kSAS SUpSP mEC 
0EiTARg.0TE 1Te p0RBU1 KgEJ. LS. gE1 RTAS 
KTEGSE0SE.U1 .gE TEU0ESP
ySpTeAKSp U0hS (eSp.wzz k0. gKKSpp .T 
USgC0EL Cg.gsgpSp iATR gATeEC .S kTAUCP 
FUSK.ATE0K ESkp BesU0Kg.0TEpP MgACkgAS gEC 
pTi.kgAS iTAeRp iTA SGSA1 RgxTA RgEeigK.eASAP 
mEC iTAeRp iTA pBSK0gU 0E.SASp.p iATR KTRl
Be.SA SUSK.ATE0Kp .T eRgE pS'egU0.1P
-Uep TEU0ES .AgGSU BUgEE0ELP HTBB0EL gEC 
sgEh0EL pSAG0KSpP FGSE 0E.SAgK.0GS gCGSE.eAS 
LgRSpP
Lead a Revolution
rTEJ. KgpS .S KTRReE0Kg.0TEp ASGTb
Ue.0TEP I0Eh 1TeA KTRBe.SA gEC RTCSR .T 
nTRBeHSAGS gEC USgC 0.P
6eA pBSK0gU p.eCSE. RSRsSAp0B TiiSA 
0EKUeCSp g XOwPWW 0E.ATCeK.TA1 epgLS KASC0.3 g 
9WWlBgLS &pSAp oe0CS gEC g pespKA0B.0TE .T
nTRBeHSAGSJp RTE.U1 ESkpRgLgY0ES3Online Tbday. m Xw:P:w GgUeS iTA xep. XO9P:w3 
BUep p0BB0EL gEC gECU0ELP
6EU0ES epgLS Ag.Sp gAS gp UTk gp OW KSE.p 
g R0Ee.SP 6ACSA CeA0EL .S .SAR Ti .0p TiiSA 
gEC ASKS0GS g 2yFF u-gpp0EL oSgAv !lp0A. 
xep. iTA sS0EL g KgRBep 0EETGg.TAP
!T TACSA3 KgUU 800 848-8199 gEC gph iTA 
ySBASpSE.g.0GS #P (E 60T3 KgUU Ot tw7lWNW9P 
6A i0UU Te. gEC Rg0U .0p KTeBTEPCompuServe*
? yep RS nTRBeHSAGS -gpp0EL oSgAP
-USgpS 0EKUeCS R1 KTEi0CSE.0gU BgppkTAC gEC (PrP3 .S 9WWlBgLS &pSAp oe0CS gEC g u-gpp0EL 
oSgAv !lp0A. (TES p0YS i0.p gUU)P &BTE KTRBUS.0TE Ti R1 RSRsSAp0B TEU0ES OOO gUpT ASKS0GS g 
XOwPWW TEU0ES epgLS KASC0. gEC g 2yFF pespKA0B.0TE .T nTRBeHSAGSJp RTE.U1 ESkpb
RgLgY0ES3 Online Tbday.EH HSEC RTAS 0EiTARg.0TE gsTe. nTRBeHSAGSP
(Orders will be shipped within 14 days of receipt. Pirase indicate the shipping address in the space provided.)
fgRS_______________________________________________________________________
neAASE. mCCASpp _______________________________________________
n0.G______________________________
-TES (P
!T.gU KTp. XOtP:wz (XO9P:w BUep X9PWW p0BB0EL gEC gECU0ELP)OH.CT and FL residents add stale sales tax. 
nM nSKh SEKUTpSC TA KgALS R1P ? V(Hm r 8gp.SAngAC nr mRSA0KgE F'BASppn/m
H0LEg.eAS 
8g0U .T4(Xd777)CompuServe* Information Services, Attn: Department L Box 477, BQ Box 18161, Columbus, Ohio 43260
Pricing described heran ts available through June 1,1988, (new subscribers only one Passing Gear package per subscriber^ 
CompuServe reserves the rifritto wrify enrollment status.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Art Hazards Need 
More Attention
fT pKTTU 0p k0.Te. 0.p pgiS.1 gEC SgU. 0ppeSp4 gKKSpp0sUS i0AS S'0.p3 pSKeAS 
k0ECTkp3 pgE0.gA1 C0E0EL igK0U0.0Sp3 S.KP 6i Ug.S0E .S Ugp. .kT kSShp3 .g. 0p 
pgiS.1 KTEKSAEp gGS iTKepSC UgALSU1 TE .S p.eC0T KTEC0.0TEp 0E .S mA. 
rSBgA.RSE.3 ET. .T RSE.0TE .S Rg.SA0gUp epSC 0E .SpS p.eC0TpP !S p.ATEL 
0E.SASp. 0E .SpS KTEC0.0TEp kgp pBgAhSC s1 g G0p0. iATR gE 0E.SAEg.0TEgUU1 
gKKUg0RSC S'BSA. 0E .S i0SUC Ti pgiS.1 gEC SgU. gYgACpP MSA G0p0. kgp .S ASpeU. 
Ti pSGSAgU p.eCSE.pJ gkgASESpp Ti .S BATsUSR; .S CSBgA.RSE. gLASSC .T pBTEpTA 
.S pBSghSAP
cg. gAS .S gYgACp? rSgCU13 iTA .S RTp. BgA.P (EgCSqeg.S TA g G0A.egU UgKh 
Ti GSE.0Ug.0TE0E p.eC0Tp kSAS UgALS gRTeE.p Ti .T'0K ieRSp gAS S'eCSC0p 
.S Rg0E gYgACP (RBATBSA GS0KUSp iTA C0pBTpgU Ti iUgRRgsUS Rg.SA0gUp 0p g 
KUTpS pSKTEC3 iTUUTkSC s1 CSi0K0SE. 0Ep.AeK.0TE TE .S BATBSA epgLS Ti Rg.SA0gUp 
gEC RgK0ESA1P
cg. k0UU sS CTES gsTe. 0. gEC Tk pTTE? oAgE.SC3 pTRS Ti .S CgELSAp KgE 
sS gGT0CSC s1 igKeU.1 gEC p.eCSE.p p0RBU1 s1 Ag0p0EL .S0A KTEpK0TepESppP ,Te 
hETk 0.Jp CgELSATep .T pRThS gATeEC KTRsep.0sUS Rg.SA0gUp U0hS .eABSE.0ES3 pT 
CTEJ. CT 0.P 60UlsgpSC BATCeK.p ASqe0AS ET'0Tep pTUGSE.p; pesp.0.e.S kg.SAlsgpSC 
BATCeK.p kSAS BTpp0sUSP HTRS RgK0ESA1 pB0.p pBgAhp gEC Cep.; kSgA g Rgph 
gUU p.eC0Tp gAS Sqe0BBSC k0. .SR! H0RBU1 sS0EL RTAS KgASieU KgE BASGSE. g 
CSgCU1 gKK0CSE.P
de. kg. Ti .SpS s0LLSA BATsUSRp3 U0hS .S ESSC iTA ESk GSE.0Ug.0TE p1p.SRp? 
!S CSBgA.RSE. 0p peAGS10EL SgK gASg (BA0E.Rgh0EL3 pKeUB.eAS3 Bg0E.0EL3 .S 
kTTC pTB3 S.KP) iTA g U0p. Ti BTpp0sUS gYgACpP de. TEKS .SpS gAS KTUUSK.SC gEC 
uBA0TA0.0YSCv k0UU cgAESA MgUU gK. TE .SR BTp.gp.S? 6A k0UU 0. .ghS S0L.SSE 
RTE.p Ti i0U0EL KTRBUg0E.p gp 0. C0C iTA .S CSKg10EL gpsSp.Tp B0BSp .T sS 
ASRTGSC iATR .S BA0E.Rgh0EL p.eC0Tp? mp 0. 0p .gh0EL iTA g pSA0Tep USgh 0E .S 
kTTC pTB GSE.0Ug.0TE CeK.p .T sS ASBg0ASCReK .T RgE1 gE gA. RgxTApJ 
peABA0pS3 pgk Cep. 0p g KgAK0ETLSE!
MSgC Ti .S mA. rSBgA.RSE.3 rAP 6AG0UUS c0EpgEC3 gEC rSgE Ti n2m3 mhAgR 
80CgE03 gppeAS ep .g. pTUe.0TEp .T .SpS RTAS 0EGTUGSC BATsUSRp gAS u0E .S UTEL 
AgELS BUgEpv iTA .S CSBgA.RSE.P !S igK. 0p3 0i .S 6KKeBg.0TEgU HgiS.1 gEC 
MSgU. mCR0E0p.Ag.0TE (6HMm) 0EpBSK.SC .S p.eC0Tp .TRTAATk3 .S1 KTeUC pe. 
CTkE .S CSBgA.RSE. 0Ep.gE.U13 iATR .S p0.S Ti xep. TES p.eC0T! FGSE .0p ASpeU. 
kTeUC TEU1 sS iTA .S KTEKSAE Ti igKeU.13 p0EKS 6HMm ASLeUg.Sp TEU1 k0. ASLgAC 
.T SRBUT1SSpP mU.TeL ngAESL0S 8SUUTE 0p U0gsUS iTA .S pgiS.1 Ti p.eCSE.p3 
0EK0CSE.p gGS gUASgC1 TKKeAASC se. gGS sSSE epSCleBP
c0UU .SpS igK.p sS SETeL .T LS. .S i0AS p.gA.SC eECSA .S gCR0E0p.Ag.0TE? 
nUTp0EL .S CSBgA.RSE. KTeUC sS g pSA0Tep ASgU0.1 0i gK.0TE 0p .ghSE3 ASpeU.p sS0EL 
g UTpp Ti p.eCSE.p gEC sgC BesU0K0.1P !0Eh gsTe. 0.0i kS KgE gGS g nTRBe.0EL 
Hh0UUp cTAhpTB Igs .g. UTThp U0hS 6Y3 gsAgEC ESk Xwt3WWW .AgKh .g. k0UU pTTE 
sS A0BBSC eB3 gEC g kgUhkg1 sS.kSSE cSgE gEC -TA.SA MgUUp .g.Jp pgiS .T KATpp3 
Tk gsTe. BAT.SK.0EL .S U0GSp Ti .S gA.0p.p?
Athletes Dont Get Enough Recognition
,Te KgE'. gGS 0. sT. kg1pP (.Jp g KU0KS3 se. 0.Jp .AeS gEC ngAESL0S 8SUUTE 0p 
.A10EL .T CT xep. .g. k0. 0.p g.US.0K BATLAgRP
c0.ESpp .S ASKSE. RSC0g g..SE.0TE .S pKTTU ASKS0GSC iTA .S r0phS..S rg1 
BATRT.0TE g. Ugp. kSSh'p iTT.sgUU LgRSP (.Jp 0ATE0K .g. .0p BesU0K0.1 KgRS 0E .S 
pgRS kSSh .g. 0. kgp gEETeEKSC .g. .S iTT.sgUU .SgR kTeUC ET. gGS g BUgKS 
.T BUg1 TRS LgRSp ES'. pSgpTEP
ngpS EeRsSA .kT4 Ugp. 1SgA g p0R0UgA gRTeE. Ti BesU0K0.1 kgp LSESAg.SC s1 .S 
pk0RR0EL MSgC nTgK a0R -SAh0Ep kSE S gCGSA.0pSC TE KgRBep .T p.gii 0p 
pk0R .SgRP MS kgp gsUS .T se0UC g pqegC LTTC SETeL .T .ghS pSKTEC BUgKS g. 
.S -mn ngRB0TEp0BpP MTkSGSA3 .S .SgR gp C0GSAp .g. gAS ET. gUUTkSC .T 
.Ag0E 0E .S0A BTTU sSKgepS 0. 0pEJ. CSSB SETeLP
!S eE0GSAp0.1 gp CTES gE S'KSUUSE. xTs Ti ASgB0EL .S ASkgACp Ti gG0EL gE 
g.US.0K BATLAgR3 1S. pSSRp .T gGS iTALT..SE gsTe. .S g.US.Sp kT LS. .S 
pKTTU .S BesU0K0.1P
,Sp3 .0p 0p g r0G0p0TE ((( BATLAgRP (.Jp ET. S'BSK.SC .S sA0EL 0E ASGSEeS U0hS 
BATLAgRp g. r0G0p0TE ( pKTTUp peK gp -0..3 se. .g. CTSp ET. RSgE .g. LTTC 
igK0U0.0Sp gAS Te. Ti .S qeSp.0TEP nTRBgAS kg. kS gGS SAS k0. T.SA pKTTUp 
0E S0.SA KTEiSASEKSpeK gp aTE ngAATUU TA yTKSp.SAgEC 1TeJUU pSS Tk 
pTA. kS KTRS eBP
ngAESL0S 8SUUTE 0p kTAh0EL gAC .T 0RBATGS 0.p 0RgLS TE gUU iATE.p3 gEC pBTA.p 
gAS TES Ti .S RTp. G0p0sUS gpBSK.p Ti .S eE0GSAp0.1P fTk 0.'p .0RS .T KgAS gsTe. 
Tk B^01^ApP'0S^.S ^sTUPKV.33eP . GPG  zz
m8X> fcU!0em! e VLUVUTt)!'
Letters:
rSBgA.RSE. MSgC nUSgAp 80pKTEKSB.0TEp
Editor:
I wish to correct the many misconceptions 
in the letter of September 9 by Name 
Withheld.
The current directions of the Music De
partment are consistent with the 
Department's Strategic Planning goals es
tablished by the University and the Depart
ment of Music in 1986, which lists among 
its objectives to implement a world music 
experience and to redesign the departmen
tal curriculum to create robust programs 
that will take advantage of the existing 
music expressions in addition to the West
ern and Classical tradition.
One of the most important terms of ac
cepting the position of Head of the Depart
ment was to substantially increase new 
scholarship assistance. This request was 
backed by the administration with the as
surance that such-funding will increase 
from year to year.
The office of Financial Assistance has 
very clear policies concerning its support 
procedures. Reasons for decrease in schol
arship aid include lowering of academic 
level, increase in family income, etc. Such 
information is readily available from the 
Financial Aid office. There are certain 
funds allocated for financial aid and schol
arships, and other funds for program devel
opment and faculty. These monies are not 
interchangeable, and spending in one area 
does not necessarily affect the other.
I know of no instance of any musician 
who moved to Pittsburgh one week ago 
and was informed that the Department was 
short of funds and could not grant monies 
for graduation. If such a person exists, I 
would certainly welcome information on 
the circumstances involved.
The presence on our campus of a major 
international string quartet in residence is 
in line with the Presidents directive to 
create a truly significant world class depart
ment of international standing. The Cuar
teto Latinamericano was brought to CMU 
because they are an outstanding, profes
sional quartet with an international reputa
tion, which is as much for their perform
ance as for their repertoire, firmly 
grounded in the music of this century as 
well as of the past, and also features the rich 
repertoire of the bestbf the Latin American 
composers usually lacking in the repertoire 
of American quartets.
The Department does not employ a 
World Improv teacher, although we do
.have a class in improvisation with members 
of World Sound.
At this historical point in time, it is univer
sally recognized that Jazz and improvisa
tion are major creative forces in 20th cen
tury music. Simply because jazz studies 
have not previously been part of the cur
riculum at CMU, as well as courses in 
world music, is no argument for not intro
ducing them now and filling what was, in 
my opinion, a major deficit in the concept 
of the music program.
As far as classical Western music is con
cerned, we all know that Mozart, 
Beethoven, Schubert, Chopin were 
extraordinary improvisors  perhaps the 
greatest being J.S. Bach. We do not employ 
an East Indian music teacher, at least not in 
the way indicated in the letter. We are 
fortunate to attract an international popula
tion to our outstanding CMU graduate 
programs. This year we have a fine musi
cian from India in one of the science pro
grams. What an excellent opportunity for 
us to have him teach the south Indian drum, 
which comes form a tradition of classical 
music that is thousands of years old. We 
look to our student body as a valuable 
resource.
We are all members of the global village. 
Today, more than ever before, every art 
form is influenced, stimulated, motivated, 
and inspired by all of the worlds cultures. 
The year is 1987, not 1887, and to approach 
the process of music education through the 
study of only a few hundred years of West
ern music, as great as the tradition is, would 
continue to foster cultural xenophobia.
Where will it end? In a Department of 
Music that has a truly exceptional faculty, 
filled with marvelously gifted students, a 
program that reflects the incredible beauty 
of the worlds music and espouses the high
est level of artistic commitment. A begin
ning to be shared with the entire CMU 
community, the nation, and the world.
Our goal is to expand the musical con
sciousness of our students. We are not 
taking anything away by the changes we 
are instituting. We are adding on, increas
ing options, broadening our scope.
My door is always open to anyone who 
wishes to meet with me to ask questions, 
offer advice, seek clarification and share 
ideas.
Joel Thome, Head 
Department of Music

---------------------------------------------------

The TartanSeptember 29,1987Page 9
Slightly to the left...Reagan CONTRAry to the Public Interest
By MICHAEL WITBROCK & 
MICHAEL FRANZINI
President Reagan wants Congress to give 
$270 million more to the Contras. There is no 
reason why Congress should do so. To grant 
C uch a large amount of money to support the 
attempted overthrow 
of a foreign nations 
government would be 
bad enough in any 
case; to do so now
would be incomprehensible.
The administrations practice of funding the 
insurgents is on questionable ground. While 
he Sandinistas have been far from a model 
government, there is no question that they are 
better than the Samoza dictatorship they reInquiring Minds Eavesdrop on Presidential Predictions
Mv THE INQUIRING STAFF
Last week we were hard up for a story and 
started searching garbage. Well this week was 
just as bad. Then we were sitting in Scotland 
Yard late Thursday night and heard two people 
talking over Jolt Co
las. Feverishly, we 
took out our notepads 
and recorded what 
they said. Sure hope 
they wont sue us!
Biden had to drop out because he didnt 
credit one paragraph? Jeez, imagine if I run for 
President. Theyll have a field day.
I dont think you have too much to worry 
about; whod vote for a Carnegie Mellon 
graduate? I wouldntwould you? How 
many people are left running anyway?
Im not sure. USA Today had the chart on 
' them yesterday, but I guess its pretty much off 
by now. Lets see, Kennedy dropped 
out...when...in 1985? It makes sense; he never 
wouldve been able to hide Chappaquiddik for 
very long, anyway.
Yeah, I remember. They said that Hart and 
Cuomo would fight it out for the nomination. 
But Mario isnt running. Shame; he gives 
the best speeches, and Matilda would make 
"such a nice First Lady.
And it was a shame what they did to Gary. 
Hell, at least hes got good taste in women. I 
wouldnt want to elect anyone who sleeps 
every night with Tipper Gore.
Aw, you dont have to worry about that. 
Didnt you hear? She filed for divorce today. 
Seems that she found a Motley Crue fan club 
card in Als wallet.
- No kidding!
No one really knows these people. Like that 
Simon guytook me three weeks to figure out 
why Les Nessman was running for President! 
Ok, I see your point. Whod have believed 
that George Bush would get drunk at a Shriners dinner and admit that he rents his person
ality from Walter Mondale?
And then theres Jesse I was there when 
Martin bit the big one Jackson. How much 
mileage can you get out of standing next to 
someone when he gets shot?
I like that Babbitt guy. You never hear any
thing about him.
Who?
Never mind. I dont like Robertson though. 
I dont mind that he got out of fighting in 
Korea, but when he wanted a purple heart for 
paper cuts back at HQ...I dont know.
At least weve got Dole. You think Bob can 
handle being the first male First Lady?
At that point, Letterman started doing Stupid 
Pet Tricks. We thought that an iguana doing 
cartwheels through the Prancing Fluids was a 
lot more interesting than the 88 campaign. 
Which is funnier though, were not sure.
The Inquiring Staff is S. Levine, C. Williams, 
iXtnd R. Wit sort.'
placed. They were democratically elected, 
they have increased literacy, and they have 
redistributed the land held by Samozas syco
phants. Recently they have imposed censor
ship and repressed political opponents. This is 
unacceptable, but it was also unacceptable 
under Samoza, whose regime the United 
States supported. The real motivation for the 
Administrations actions is not what the 
Sandinistas do now or might do in the future,- 
it is ideological: Nicaragua elected a socialist 
government, loosely allied with the USSR, 
and it just wont do.
Important things have been happening in 
Central America. President Oscar Arias of 
Costa Rica has persuaded Central American 
leaders to adopt a plan which, if successful,
promises to give the area peace and stability. 
By Nov. 7, Nicaragua, El Salvador, Guate
mala, Honduras and Costa Rica must join 
together in proclaiming cease fires, granting 
full freedom to the press, and removing re
strictions on opposition political parties. 
These requirements are aimed chiefly at Nica
ragua and El Salvador.
Already, Nicaragua has announced a partial 
cease fire, given the chief opposition newspa
per La Prensa and the Roman Catholic radio 
station permission to resume operation, al
lowed the return of an exiled political leader, 
and, in a surprising reversal, started to talk 
about the possibility of negotiating with the 
Contras. The Reagan administration calls 
these moves cosmetic gestures of compliFeel Better: Get Involved
By ERIC WITTLE
Last week, I wrote about student commit
ment to Quality of Life, or rather the lack 
thereof. I really expected that the issue would 
affect some students enough that I would get a 
reply. Imagine my 
surprise to go through 
an entire week with
out any response 
whatsoever.
Granted, response to my previous columns 
could not be called overwhelming, but it was 
there. I hoped that speaking about student 
commitment would be controversial enough 
to generate more response. There are several 
possible explanations for this lack of response, 
but I believe the most probable is apathy.
Face the facts! If you truly want a better 
Quality of Life, youre going to have to put in 
some effort. You are either going to have to 
spend some time communicating with people 
who can accomplish changes in CMU (my 
preference), or use some alternative method 
such as demonstrating, civil disobedience, etc. 
(the preference of some of my friends).
At this point, my personal preference would 
be to vent some of the bitterness, anger, and 
frustration I feel about the student bodys 
effort towards improving the Quality of Life. 
However, this has been done before by differ
ent people, with almost no effect. Instead, Im 
asking you to spend some time looking beyond 
the exams you have this week, and beyond 
your party plans for this weekend. Think about
next month, next semester, or next year.
Isnt there something that you would appre
ciate being able to do then that you couldnt do 
now? Or something that you had to do now that 
youll hate doing again later? If you make the 
effort to do something about your concern, I 
guarantee that youll get something in return.
The students that I know and work with, who 
put in time to improve everyones Quality of 
Life, are mostly happier and healthier than 
other students. I think that this is because 
students who make an effort feel the positive 
returns from communicating their concerns, 
and having someone listen.
Part of the reason to make an effort to im
prove everyones Quality of Life is not just 
altruism. There is a special feeling that you get 
when you know that youve made a difference 
in someones life, that you cant get any other 
way. It makes you feel better about yourself, as 
well as better about the world.
Enough of sweetness and light. Go out and 
do somethinganything to make your con
cerns known. Id even enjoy it if your effort 
was to drop me a note saying that this column 
sucks, as long as you tell me why.
One more time, for the record, I can be 
reached through the SDC office (x2114), 
through campus mail (Box 576), and through 
electronic mail (ewlk@tb).
Eric Wittle is a third year Resident Assistant, 
President of the Student Dormitory Council, 
and a member of the University Task Force on 
Quality of Life.
HERBLOCKS CARTOON
I ONLY COUNT 65"
ance and a sham. Its difficult to see how this 
could be so. Sandinista leaders may not be 
good republicans, but they are not stupid. If 
they do not intend to comply fully with the 
Arias plan by the Nov. 7 deadline, then they 
are making a very grave mistake. By making 
the substantial move of freeing the opposition 
press, the Sandinistas admit that closing the 
press in the first place was wrong, and they 
create an expectation of more change; not an 
expectation of some increase in glasnost 
some time in the future, but of full freedom of 
the press, on Nov. 7.
If its difficult to see what internal purpose 
these gestures serve, it is impossible to 
support a claim that these changes are ges
tures designed to discourage congressional 
support for the Contras. Even if Congress 
grants the $270M, there is no prospect of a 
Contra victory. The majority of Contra targets 
are military only in that they are defended and 
represent a demoralizing, rather than a threat
ening loss. Nor is the Sandinista government 
going to win if the furltiing isnt granted. The 
Contras have just received $3.5M in interim 
aid, and, in any case, have more than enough 
weaponry to last till the deadline. If the 
Sandinistas do not meet that deadline, then 
they can be sure that the Contras will receive 
a blank cheque in the next budget.
Giving the money to the Contras now would 
be a slap in the face for Arias and for the 
Central American leaders who are risking 
much by following his plan. It would make it 
perfectly clear that the Administration ex
pects, or even wants, the Arias plan to fail. It 
leads one to suspect that, even when the 
Sandinistas restore full press freedom, stop 
shooting at Contras, and announce elections, 
the Administration will continue its attempts 
at destabilization.
It is difficult to avoid the conclusion that 
Reagans request for money is motivated more 
by emotionalism than by reason. He was 
emotionally unable to abandon hostages in the 
middle east, even when the futile rescue plan 
meant giving weapons to the palpably evil 
Iranian government. He is unwilling to aban
don the Contras, men and women he de
scribes as the moral equivalent of the found
ing fathers, even if it means throwing away 
the only hope of peace in the region.
_____The Tartan_____
Editor-in-Chief.............................Russ Seligman
Managing Editor..........................David N. Levy
Business Manager.......................Mark R. Benish
News Editor...................................Karl Barnhart
Assistant News Editor.....................Eric Leuliette
Features Editor...............................Mary Murphy
Assistant Features Editor.........Judy Haraburda
Sports Editor.................................Stewart Levine
Diversions Editor.............................Bruce Kasrel
Assistant Diversions Editor.............Leslie Griffin
Photo Editor..................................Glenn Schuster
Art Editor...............................Grant Carmichael
Literary Editor.........................Michele Osherow
Production Manager............................Drue Miller
Ad Manager.....................................Celeste Clark
Copy Manager.............................Nancy St. Louis
Contributing Editors.............................................
Lisa D. McAnany Olve Peerson
Albrecht T. Powell John Friedmann
Neil Greenblum Andrew Gillespie
The Tartan is a student newspaper ot Carnegie Melton University II 
is a weekly newspaper, published each Tuesday during the fa and 
spring semesters by students at no cost to members ot the university 
community It is printed by Typecraft Press, Inc Subscriptions are 
available tor $15per semester, $25 per year The Editorial appearing 
at the beginning ot the opinion section is the official opinion of The 
Tartan editorial board Columns are the opinions ot individual authors 
who are not necessarily on The Tartan edrtonal board or staff letters 
to the Editor are opinions of individual authors wrtw are usuatty 
members at the University community A letter intended tor publication 
must be signed and include the writers address and phone number tor 
verification Names w* be withheld upon request The Tartan re
serves tie right to condense or reject any letter or column Copyright 
1967 by The Tartan The editorial board reserves the right to withhold 
from publication any copy it deems unfit tor putakcalior
Office: Skibo 50-52 (412)268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17 amegte 
Mellon University / Pittsburgh. PA 15213 
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. All rights 
reserved. Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

Come to a special meeting of Student Senate:
Tuesdag, September 29 
7:30 pm 
fldamson Wing (Baker Hall)
(Why?)\______LJ
To hear a progress report onthe University Building Plan
Topics include:
[Partllm
Mto Theartnn
Given by:
William Elliott
Vice President for Enrollment
and
Pat Keating
Director of Universitg Planning
Sponsored by the Student Activities Fee
m

---------------------------------------------------

F eatures
Learn How to Think: Become a Student of Student Pugwash
By JENNISEVERATartan Staffer iter
Whats a Pugwash, you ask?
No, the definition of Pugwash isnt the 
Tartan stupid question of the week, or even 
the act of washing a Pug. Student Pugwash 
is a national organization, formed several 
years ago, to promote well- informed and 
value-conscious decision making about 
science and technology among students. 
And we have a hew chapter of-Student 
Pugwash here at Carnegie Mellon this year.
It isnt as bad as itsounds.
Student Pugwash is named after a town in 
Nova Scotia where Einstein, Bertrand 
Russell, and other world scientists met after 
World War II to appraise the perils that 
have arisen as a result of the development of 
weapons of mass destruction (taken from 
the Pugwash Manifesto written up as a 
result of the conference).
But Student Pugwash is not a nuclear ac
tivist group. It was created to aid in in
formed decision-making for various sci
ence and technology issues in todays soci
ety. Student Pugwash does this by sponsor
ing seminars in which guest speakers offer 
discussion on multiple sides and aspects of 
an issue.
Take that Diet Coke youre sipping. Was 
it ethical for the FDA to put NutraSweet on 
the market when research on its safety isnt 
yet complete? Did the benefits outweigh 
the risk? Were you even aware that this was 
the case?
On a more technical note, what about ge
netic engineering? Is it ethical? What will 
its effects be on the human race?
These are just some of the issues that 
Student Pugwash can deal with. You dont 
have to be a science major to be concerned 
about genetic engineering or Nu
traSweetthese are issues that can affect 
everyone.
And everyone, whether an engineer or an 
English major, is welcome at a Pugwash
STUDENT
PUGWASH
seminar.
Student Pugwash will hold its first semi
nar on October 20 from 4:00-6:00pm 
(place to be announced). The seminar is 
entitled, The Future of Undergraduate 
Education and will have as speakers 
Stephen Fienberg (Dean of H&SS), Lin
coln Wolfenstein (Dept, of Physics), and 
Clark Glymour (Dept, of Philosophy). The 
main issue to be discussed deals with the 
value of humanities courses for science and 
technology majors and vice versa. In addi
tion, Student Pugwash will have a table at 
the T.O.C on October 1.
In this technological age, its been said, 
We have to learn to think in a new way. 
I think, however, that it is more appropriate 
to say that We have to learn how to 
thinkto think about what were doing, 
why were doing it, and what consequences 
may result. Student Pugwash offers just 
that opportunity.
Here s the trick, to...Roommate Revenge!
Ace Offers Advice 
on Avoiding Assault
By BOB GLICKSTEIN
Tartan Staffwriter
True: At three oclock on the morning of 
Sunday, September thirteenth, I, your humble 
reporter, was assaulted and beaten by a gang of 
racially motivated youths.
How embarrassing.
Fret Not: your humble reporter escaped with 
only a few minor injuries from which he has 
now largely recovered. But this accident 
caused me to think about you, my loyal read
ers. How could my experience help you avoid 
such an ordeal?
After a few days of thought and consultation 
with the local Pittsburgh Police, I have com
piled this list of tips on How to Avoid Being 
Assaulted and Beaten by a Gang of Racially 
Motivated Youth^.
Number One: Never, ever go out. Instead, 
lock your doors and windows and hide under 
the bed.
Excuse me, my editor just tapped me on the 
shoulder. Ill be back in a minute.
I cant believe it. Im supposed to re-evaluate my list of tips. Hunh. Im sitting here, 
composing a helpful article for my loyal read
ers taken from personal experience and along 
comes the editor, peering over my shoulder at 
my notes and has the gall to tell me that my tips 
cul led from personal experience have to be reevaluated! Well, fine.
Tip number one: Always get home by sun
down. This is most important. As most of you 
know, the large majority of assaults, beatings.
This week Spectacles will highlight a popular 
pastime here at Carnegie Mellon. Some stu
dents while away the hours juggling in Gray 
Matter, playing video games, or simply toying 
around in the UCC. But the majority seem to
and crimes in general take place at night, in 
the dark. I was never quite sure why this is. 
If I were to commit an assault, beating, or 
crime in general, I would do it in daylight, so
I could see better who it was I was assaulting 
or beating or committing a general crime 
upon (...general crime to? ...general crime 
at? ...general crime for?). Anyway, if you 
always get home by sundown, your chances 
of encountering violent crime may go way, 
way down (I would quote figures here, but I 
have absolutely no idea what they are or how 
to get them). I cant stress this enough. Oh, 
wait; yes I can. I have an italicskey. Alw ays 
get home by sundown.
Tip number two: The police are not here to 
protect you. They are here to make you feel 
like youre doing something important for 
the community when you report a violent 
crime perpetrated by really big scary guys 
who if theyre actually caught will probably 
be released and then come to hunt you down 
and ruin your clothes and body with some
thing sharp. After youve fulfilled this task, 
the police are also here to tell you to wait 
outside your apartment building at four in the 
morning so that they can send a car to take a 
report and so that while youre waiting you 11 
probably get beaten up by another gang. 
Finally, the police are also here to make yo4u 
wait a full hour for a car to come to take a 
report, by which time the bad guys are half 
way to Tijuana, and when the car comes, the 
continued on page 13
prefer to spend their time plotting and scheming.
Tables at Morewood and Kiltie are filled with 
undergraduates discussing their roommates. 
Airing the personal hygiene habits of your 
roommate is the number two most talked about 
topic. The number one topic is what the speaker 
has done or will do to the roommate in question.
The more mild-mannered are content with 
simple federal offenses. Opening mail, inter
cepting phone calls and blatantly eavesdropping 
are activities that are dismissed as old hat. On a 
slightly racier level are the felons and thieves. 
They prefer to take items belonging to their 
roommates and relocate them. Some use laun
dry tokens which they did not purchase, others 
sabotage change, food, soap, and clothes: 
sooner or later most of these things mysteriously 
disappear.
Catching a glimpse of your sweater as it boldly 
saunters through the library is just a minor heart 
murmur compared to the coronary you would 
experience if you had a roommate who out
weighed you by 125 lbs. Seeing your clothes on 
campus is an advantage. Seeing them off cam
pus is a disadvantage.
Jane Doe remembers walking into the movie 
theatre in Squirrel Hill and seeing her favorite 
skirt pinned up on the wall behind the popcorn 
cup display. A sign read: Lost and Found, 
Center Aisle, The Untouchables. She de
manded it back from the usher, plots brewing in 
her head of revenge-oriented maneuvers. She 
was so wrapped up in her scheming that when 
her date expressed his qualms about how her 
skirt managed to find itself on the floor of the 
theatre during the 6:20 show of the previous 
evening, she did not answer. She then found 
herself without her date in the theatre; skirt 
clenched firmly in hand, brow knitted in con
sternation.
While this might never have happened to you, 
you are undoubtedly familiar with the feeling of 
revenge Ms. Doe experienced. Your roommate 
has taken something of yours, and you want 
something of equal or greater value. This some
times appears impossible. The pin your high 
school sweetheart gave you at the prom is now 
holding together the handle of your roommates 
umbrella. If that blatant disregard of sentiment 
werent bad enough, the fact that two broken 
spokes on this umbrella has kept it immobilized 
on the closet floor for three months will. Of 
course if you were, by chance, to move the CS W 
notebook, boot with missing heel and empty
Doritos bag, you would come across your most 
cherished possession, but chances are you 
won  t. Not knowing that this pin is in the closet 
and after having looked for it for eleven to 
fourteen hours you then come to the conclusion 
that your roommate is a thief. Not only did she 
obviously steal your pin, she probably is an
gling for your old sweetheart too.
Of course the only option open to you now is 
The Trick. The procedure is simple. Run to 
your next meal. Premise your topic of discus
sion with a familiar attention getting cliche, 
e.g., I dont want to talk about it, but... Swear 
you wont tell anyone...Youll never believe 
this... Hopefully your roommate will be eat
ing with his/her friends and you can employ 
visual aid. Dont look now buttheresol Miss 
five-finger-discount herself. With enough 
emphasis, everyone at the table will swivel in 
their seats. They hope to catch a glimpse of the 
roommate that makes one long for capital 
punishment to be passed by Student Senate. 
The next step is called Awareness Day. If 
your friends dont know about the unusual and 
unattractive things the roommate does, tell 
them. Tell them anyway and be sure to include 
endless detail of how-sick-it-was. Then, 
before attention lags tell them of the latest 
offense. Your part of conversational naviga
tion is over now. Everyone at the table will 
breathlessly share their personal experiences 
with roommates weirder, uglier, stranger, and 
more revolting than yours. Then suggestions 
will fly.
Here are a few we collected in the field that 
promise to be effective for getting some re
venge on that roommate. The prank is geared 
towards the crime.
Crime: laundry token theft, soap use, or 
detergent hiding 
Prank: short sheet bed, spill coffee, or put on 
roommate's boyfriends sweatshirtits the 
one she only takes off to take a shower.
Crime: borrowing last pair of socks or run
ning your only black stockings 
Prank: peach pit in pocket of cardigan, break 
one of the laces on sneakers 
Crime: not telling you someone called 
Prank: tell him/her someone called who 
didnt, and insist they wanted them to return the 
call no matter what time
Crime: eating cookies you had saved for a 
special occasion, or borrowing a favorite gar
ment
Prank: Sun In in their shampoo bottle, 
ammonia in their tissue box, moving the time 
on their alarm clock up fifteen minutes 
After you deny having committed these of
fenses, proceed with caution. Undoubtedly 
another one of your roommate's unusual idio
syncrasies will surface soon. This will not only 
keep your friends entertained at lunch, it will 
also make you realize just how much you 
missed the old loser over the summer and why 
she or he doesnt REALLY know everything 
about you.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanSeptember 29,1987
Dining vs. Eating: Observations on UDS
By HOWDY PIERCE
Tartan Staffwriter 
Just the other day I was in the Tartan Grill. 
The guy at the register was just giving my i.d.
card back to me. Enjoy your meal, he said. 
Honest! I am probably the only CMU student 
in history who has heard those three words at 
the Tartan Grill.
Im going to let you in on a staff secret. 
Ready? There is no real substance to the 
Features Section this week. Why else would 
we run an article on the dining service? But
Mary, my editor, insisted. So, grumbling, I set 
out to shed some new light on a much-illumi
nated subject  what and where we eat.
For those fellow freshmen out there, food at 
Carnegie Mellon is prepared by an entity 
known as University Dining Service, which 
is a contradiction of terms. Lets not mince 
words: At this university, you dont dine, you 
eat. After trying so hard to fool prospective stu
dents about our food by tacking a euphemism 
on the food people, someone blew it. The 
acronym for University Dining Service is
UDS. If you pronounce it as in the plural for 
ud, you have a good term to describe the 
feeling you get after just one meal at the 
Tartan Grill. I have a very important question. 
In Kiltie Cafe, there is a row of green columns 
located perhaps twenty feet inside the win
dows. Each column has a black band about six 
feet off the ground. Why? I asked some 
people. Freshman Jan Mullet said that the 
black stuff is probably electrical tape they use 
to hold the place together. Sophomore 
Sharon Becker had a better idea. Those are
bumper guards for all the flying objects. 
Flying objects? Come on, people, lets try to 
refrain from throwing our plates across the 
cafeteria.
The Tartan Grill also has some odd design 
features. In the wall which is directly opposite 
the counter area, there are several large holes 
about ten feet in diameter. Now, I understand 
that these holes are there to create the illusion 
of space. It also strikes me that they make great 
windows, so you can see who is coming in 
continued on page 13
Sick, unhappyP or just plain bored?Make It Well Month Might Help
By NATALIE PETERSON
Tartan Staffer iter 
Does it seem as though you always have ten 
different things to do all at once? Has living on 
pizza and Jolt Cola finally begun to take its 
toll? Do not despair, a solution to your prob
lems may be less than a week away! Through
out October, various groups around campus 
will be sponsoring health and fitness related 
activities. The programs are being offered in 
conjunction with Making It Well, the theme 
for the month of October according to a calen
der produced by Student Affairs, Alumni 
Relations, and Housing. A few samples from 
the October calendar include programs con
cerning relaxation, human sexuality, and eat
ing disorders, as well as the more physically 
oriented aerobic classes and Homecoming 5K 
Race.
Each month Student Affairs, Alumni Rela
tions, and Housing, will be producing a similar 
calendar of events relating to a specific theme. 
Examples of future themes include: Making 
it Safe (Sexuality, Sexually Transmitted
Diseases-Aids Forum), Make-Over (Per
sonal Improvement, Resolutions), Making it 
Fun (Play, Hobbies, Relaxation), and Mak
ing it Through Conflicts (Saying goodbye, 
Finishing, Letting it go, Starting again). Stu
dent Affairs, Alumni Relations, and Housing 
are not sponsoring every event on the calen
dars. Rather, they will simply be coordinating 
publicity for any programs relating to the 
designated monthly themes.
Assistant Dean for Student Affairs, Ed Lilley 
claims that the idea for coordinating a themerelated calendar of events has been in the 
making for a couple of years. According to 
Lilley, Many really good programs were 
simply not getting enough attendance. It was 
decided that if events were more clustered 
together they would be more difficult to miss. 
Lilley feels that the overall goal of the project 
is to create some momentum on campus 
around some important topics. He hopes that 
eventually people will be able to plan events 
such as debates and lectures according to the 
themes.
THE 
HUMAN 
SIDEPART 2
MAKING IT WELL" (HEALTH AND FITNESS)OCTOBER
sun it: t He mors or rsth i mu
A IMS. AN It S.TM PMOGRASIS HI  .uul
I NitERSTA\M.\fi EA1IM, IHSOROERS (Vidro and IM%cm%sitml III
\Un IF - SIXTEEN IMS OF (iLOM' HI : I
WEH,HT Hi TX H EMS AT ('Sil brg ns 
\ E ROBl( CLASSES
PI FASE CHECK FALL TEASI SPORTS (ALENDAR FOR OTHER -HEALTHY" EVENTS.
ck,o. Sun.akc .a,S, p ysejs lb sd yerh? Pc,oAesRsdT2
r
Carnegie Mellon 
3rd Annual 
Homecoming 
5k Race
October 10, 1987 
8:30 A.M.
Registration Forms 
are Available at 
Skibo Information Desk 
or 5017 Forbes
$5 Entry Fee

---------------------------------------------------

September 29,1987The TartanPage 13
UDS Mysteries: Are the Plants 
Real? Where Does the Cart Go?
continued from page 10
before they get there. Hey, that works two 
ways. It means you can see all the poor souls 
eating the food while theres still time to 
change your mind and order pizza.
Okay. Heres another question. In Kiltie, 
^ there are a whole bunch of plants. Some of 
them are along the window. But others are on 
top of the little shields which hold dirty trays. 
Are they real? Why are they there? Who put 
them there?
If you walk through the lobby to Wean Hall 
at lunch time, you will see a wagon selling 
food. Every day at about 3:30, the wagon 
packs up and rolls away. Where does it go? 
Sr. More importantly, why is it there in the first 
place? The only answer I can come up with is 
that UDS is jealous of all these people who get 
to have their office in a mobile home. So they
Special Offer from 
Planned Parenthood
PITTSBURGHTo introduce college 
students to Planned Parenthoods serv
ices, Planned Parenthood will offer a 
special discount until October 16, 1987.
For a special price of $15, college stu
dents of all ages who are new patients at 
Planned Parenthood can receive an an
nual checkup, including pelvic exam, 
pap smear, breast exam and lab tests, 
AND, if desired, a method of birth con
trol.
To take advantage of this special offer 
students can make an appointment at 
either of two locations: Downtown Pitts
burgh 434-8971 or Sewickley 434-8976.
cg. gAS .TpS sUgKh sgECp?
made a mobile restaurant.
Seriously, this is a disturbing trend. We have 
offices in mobile homes and restaurants in 
mobile homes. Pretty soon, well be seeing 
classrooms in mobile homes. The next thing 
you know, CMU will become a mobile 
university. Maybe we can go somewhere 
where it doesnt rain all the time.
I was thinking how I 'ddescribe the food here 
to a prospective student. I dont think I would 
say it was excellent, or even "great." Of 
course, a prospective student is unlikely to ask 
about the food. His tour guide has already told 
him or her the answer. According to the admis
sions offices Tour Guide Manual 1987, 
CMU food is not moms home cooking but is 
very good. Tell the truth. Did you hear this 
line from your tour guide? Do you believe it?
Solve Your Loss for Words
by JUDY HARABURDA
Assistant Feautures Editor
Welcome to the world of UNEX
PLAINED CMU SNIGLETS. A sniglet, 
according to comedian Rich Hall (of Satur
day Night Live fame) and friends, is any 
word that doesnt appear in the dictionary 
but should. Here are a few sniglets unique 
to CMU for your reading pleasure:
1 geotint.N. Multi-colored rocks un
der The Fence.
2perforlt*zer.V. Machine that 
plucks holes of dirt in the lawn every spring.
3ambi*Hmb*ists N. People who 
wear backpacks over both shoulders (bikers 
excluded).
Asculpt*awreck.N. Sculpture be
tween Wean and Porter.
5frus*tra*la*tors.N. Elevators in 
Morewood that completely ignore signals.
6threshweight.N. Heavy doors that 
make entrance into Warner Hall a major 
weight-lifting work out.
7cram*omatic.N. Industrial 
strength washers and dryers into which you
can cram four weeks of dirty laundry.
8rock*surf.V. To slide down the sea 
of rocks behind CFA.
9psycho^au^raho^sis.N. Condition 
that sets in after listening to too many hours 
ofWRCT.
10spooge.N. Curious and lethal 
chemical compound of beer, dirt, sweat, 
and other unidentified substances that accu
mulates on dance floors at frats.
11candyslam.N. To ram ones 
body against a vending machine to loosen 
a dangling bag of chips.
12plate*pile.N. The stack of plates 
that accumulates on ones tray as each Kilte 
entree is sampled and rejected.
13warenapping.N. Borrowing 
UDS trays, plasticware, plates, silverware, 
salt shakers, etc. for dorm room use.
14blow meal.V. wasting meals on 
Tuesday night in an effort to use them all up 
before the contract period ends.(Thanks 
Stu)
15newsstop.N. Abrupt ending to a 
Tartan Features article.
Ward off Trouble, Dont Bathe
continued from page 11
cops are here to have the following conversa
tion with you:
COP: What happened?
YOU: I was assaulted and beaten up by a gang 
of racially motivated youths who are by now 
half way to Tijuana.
COP: What time?
YOU: About three a.m.
COP: You okay?
YOU: Yeah.
COP: Bye.
Finally, tip number three. Never bathe. Not 
even a gang of big, scary, racially motivated 
guys are going to want to get closer to you than 
one block if they can smell you coming from 
three. Unfortunately, I had not thought of this 
approach prior to my ordeal; however I am now 
successfully employing this wise tactic, which 
has the incidental benefit of keeping my editor 
from making any more editorial sugges
tions, like re-evaluate.
Which reminds me: Lock your doors and win
dows and hide under your bed.
(fir
Procter & Gamble
Opportunities for Engineers
You are cordially invited to attend 
our open house on Tuesday, Sep
tember 29 in Porter Hall rm 100 at 
4:30 pm.
Talk to recruiters, alumni and sum
mer engineers about permanent 
and summer employment possibili
ties at Procter & Gamble.
Refreshments will be served

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanSeptember 29,1987
From World Series 
Back to Butler
continued from page 16
Thompson also was a tough out for me, 
but Tim is great.
After the 1985 season, Stuper called it 
quits, and went home to Butler. His only 
regrets are that he misses his friends and 
the money, but has nothing but good 
things to say about the Cardinals and his 
career. He is now working on his 
master's degree in journalism, while 
coaching the Butler Pioneers. Asked 
about a comeback, he had this to say: It 
is funny, but all my family and friends 
are telling me to try again, but I am 
happy with what I have accomplished, 
and am not even thinking about it.
Tennis Team Defeated By Rain
By NEAL A. LEVENE
Tartan Staffwriter
Yet another womens tennis match was can
celed due to rain this Thursday. With only four 
of the singles matches completed against a 
much improved Washington and Jefferson 
Women's Tennis Team, Pittsburgh weather 
struck again postponing a seemingly easy win 
for the Lady Tartans until a date to be an
nounced later. Carnegie Mellon was ahead of 
the First Ladies 3-1 before the downpour 
forced play to stop. Lady Tartan wins came 
from Beth Cavanaugh, Tracy Boyd, and Alice 
Garber.
This is the fourth consecutive tennis match 
that has been cancelled due to inclement
Cimini Hair Design
2 Blocks from CMU
HAIR CUT 
10 BUCKS!!
Walk-ins Welcome
weather. So far this season, California Univer
sity of Pennsylvania, Hiram College, Grove 
City College, and now Washington & Jeffer
son have all had to cancel and reschedule 
matches.
After moving up from number three to 
number two singles this week, Beth Cava
naugh easily defeated her opponent in a 6-2,6-
0 match. Cavanaugh commented, Im much 
happier at number two. It seems like I played 
much better today. Cavanaugh moved up 
from number three after beating Andrea 
Benowitz last week. Benowitz moved down 
to number three.
Unfortunately, Benowitz did not have much 
luck at number three where she lost to her 
opponent Alicia Anderson 4-6, 2-6. After her 
match, she commented, I know Im a good 
player. It just seems like I havent been able to 
put my game together this year. I know I 
would have won that match had I been 
healthy. Benowitz played the match suffer
ing from a cold.
The other two victories came from Alice 
Garber playing her first match at number six. 
She won her match decisively 6-2,6-0. Tracy 
Boyd also won her match at number five, 
winning 6-1, 6-1.
There were two singles matches interrupted 
by the rain. Number one singles player Suzy 
Dottor had split the first two sets with her op
ponent when the rain started. She seemed to be 
having difficulty in the third set and was thank
ful for the rain. Amy Fibuss number four 
singles match was interrupted as well.
The tennis teams next match is not until 
Saturday. They will be taking on cross-town 
rival Robert Morris College at the Tech Courts 
at 1:00 pm, assuming of course that weather 
permits.
Hiram Outduels 
Soccer Squad
By JUDY GROSSMAN
Tartan Staffwriter 
On Saturday, the Tartans, plagued 
with injuries, traveled to Hiram College 
to take on the Terriers at 1:00. The team 
was weakened by the loss of six starters, 
0EKUeC0EL pSE0TA LTgU0S aTE HSRUSA3 
kT 0p Te. k0. g pTeUCSA pSBgAg.0TEP 
Semler was injured in last Fridays John 
Carroll game and has not played since. 
Glen Hoogerwerf replaced Semler at 
goal for the Tartans.
Carnegie Mellon played tough in the 
first half. Sophomore forward Eddie 
Park scored an unassisted goal from 30 
yards out to give the Tartans a 1 -0 lead. 
They held onto the lead until the second 
half when junior forward Roberto 
Gironda evened the score for Hiram.
Sophomore midfielder George Fen
nell gave the Tartans a 2-1 advantage 
when he chipped a shot in over the 
Hiram goalkeeper. But another Hiram 
goal tied the score and regulation ex
pired with the teams deadlocked at 2-2.
In overtime, Gironda converted his 
second goal of the game to give Hiram a
3-2 victory. It was the first time in seven 
years that the Hiram soccer team de
feated the Tartans.
Senior forward Alan Mayr went 
down in the second half with what could 
be a season-ending injury to his knee. 
He joins the teams long list of injured 
starters that has left the Tartans weak
SESC KTEp0CSAgsU1P
The Tartans next game will be 
tomorrow at 3:00 when the Case West
ern Spartans invade Tech Field.
CO\NCR & ASSOCIATES
Sandra Hennager
Recruiting Systems Specialist
312/427-6300
141 West Jackson Boulevard Suite 921A 
Chicago, Illinois 60604

---------------------------------------------------

September 29,1987The TartanPage 15
Penguins Pre-Season Prep Begins
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Contributing Editor 
You may not have noticed it because of the 
weather, or because the Pirates are playing so 
well, or because the Steelers are not playing at 
all, but hockey season is here.
The Penguins opened training camp on Sept%nber 11 with a number of changes, includ
ing a new coach, Pierre Creamer. Creamer 
(pronounced 
Kray-mer) comes 
from Sherbrooke 
of the American 
Hockey League, 
where he won the 
league champion
ship in 1986 and 
lost in the finals in 
1987. Chosen by 
GM Eddie
Johnston as much 
for his people 
skills as his 
coaching talents,
Creamer will try to 
till a winning 
desire in his play
ers, something for
mer coach Bob Berry was unable to do. 
nASgRSA Rg1 gUASgC1 gGS gUi .S RT.0Ggb
.0TE sg..US kTEP H.gA KSE.SA 8gA0T ISR0Se'3 
kT pUSSBkgUhSC .ATeL ReK Ti .S O:Nl7 
pSgpTE3 KgRS gU0GS 0E .S i0EgUp Ti .S ngEgCg 
neB gEC pKTASC OO LTgUp 0EKUeC0EL .kT LgRS 
v 4EESAp GSApep .S &HHyP c0US BUg10EL TE 
.S pgRS U0ES k0. cg1ES oAS.Yh1 KSA.g0EU1 
SUBp3 ISR0Se' pSSRp .T gGS pSC .S g..0.eCS 
.g. RgCS 0R pSSR U0hS g .AeKeUSE. K0UC 
.ATeL ReK Ti Ugp. pSgpTEP
Lemieux may just be happy that he finally has
a competent winger at his side. Off-season 
help arrived in the form of right winger Wilf 
Paiment. The 31 year-old scored 20 goals last 
season for the Buffalo Sabres, and is a proven 
winger who can both assist and protect (6T\ 
210 pounds) the gifted center.
Bob Errey may have simplified the search for 
a left wing. In the Pens first exhibition game 
a week ago, Errey recorded two of 
Pittsburghs three 
goals, both with feeds 
from Lemieux. 
Creamer will try other 
combinations, and al
most anyone could 
end up on the line. A 
winger fighting for 
his job is Dwight 
Mathiesen, signed out 
of the University of 
Denver at the end of 
the 1985-6 season. 
Despite his highly 
touted potential, the 
right wingers lethar
gic attitude earned 
him a quick trip to 
Baltimore last season. 
This is a make-or-break camp for Mathiesen. 
mUpT kTA.1 Ti ET.0KS 0p KSE.SA yTs dATkEP 
MS USC .S cSp.SAE MTKhS1 USgLeS 0E pKTA0EL 
k0. 9O9 BT0E.p 0E 7 LgRSp Ugp. 1SgA3 se. kgp 
rejected for the Olympic team because of poor 
skating skills. Whether or not he can skate, he 
can pKTAS3 and thats what will CS.SAR0ES 
whether S sticks or ET.P
The big story for the defense is a player who 
wont even be around until the end of October. 
The Penguins pried first-round draft choice 
Zarley Zalapski, an outstanding young de&
te
I(!!IF m!MFfH2103 Murray Avenue  Pittsburgh, PA 15217422-1330
FREE DELIVERY
MINIMUM $5.00
GYROS
(Pittsburgh's biggest and best)
$2.35
Menu
 n68d(fm!(6f -Im!!Fy (MSP eUzCP RSP.)PPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPX7P:t
 2mIm2(I (iA0SC LATeEC K0Kh BT. k) TE0TE gEC BgApUS1)PPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPXOPNN
 HM(HMDmd6dHPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPX9PNw
 HM(HMDmd6d r(ffFy (ggUgC3 A0KS3 phSkSA Ti RSS.3 Bgp.A1) PPPPPPPPPPPPXwPW
 oyFFD HmImrPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPXOPNW
 my!(nM6DF HmImrPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPX9P9
 oym-F IFmVFHPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPX9P7w
 M6886&H (K0Kh BSS CUBUPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPXOPww
 dmdm oMmf6oF (B&E. C0B)PPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPXOPww
 nMFFHF & H-(fmnM -(FHPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPXOPOW
y(nF -&rr(foPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPX P7w
 oyFFD -mH!y(FHPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPX Pww
 2yFfnM 2y(FHPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPX P7w
 ry(fDHPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPX PW
Plus Tax
6-Ff 2y68 OO m8 lOO -8 
rFI(VFy, !(8F OO m8 lOO -8
'Why go all the way to Greece when Athens can come to you?'
fenseman, away from the Olympic team for 
two months. He will play in the first eightregular season games, and return after the 
Olympics in February. Another promising 
young defenseman is Chris Joseph, who 
played in the Western Hockey League last 
season. Joseph is only 18, and will likely spend 
another season in junior hockey.
An area of concern is the goaltending. GM 
Eddie Johnson has been trying all summer to 
pry Andy Moog, who has demanded a trade, 
from the Edmonton Oilers. But the Oilers want 
draft choices, Doug Bodger, or center Craig 
Simpson in return. While it is unlikely that 
Bodger will depart to the paucity of quality
blueliners in Pittsburgh, Simpson could well 
walk. With Lemieux as the first line center, Pat 
Quinn as the second, Dave Mcllwain on the 
checking line, Simpson is without a job.
Current netminders are Pat Riggin, acquired 
from Boston last spring, and Steve Guenette, 
who played for AHL affiliate Baltimore last 
season. Veteran Gilles Meloche is out for 
several weeks with a knee injury, but will 
likely bump one of the above when he returns.
The Penguins return to Pittsburgh on October 
2 when they take on Montreal in their final 
exhibition game. They will open the regular 
season October 8 in New York, and will open 
at home on October 12 versus the Sabres.
pan
SEPT 28 -29 9-5 WHERRET ROOM SKIBO CM
) %
- Major collectible titles- All the newest films-Stills -Post cards-Foreign movie posters -Rock posters & photos
WIN $75.00...
...playing the stock market.
the Carnegie Mellon University Investment Group presents:
The Stock Selection Contest
Prizes: 1st--$75 2nd$50 3rd--$25
...pick up to 20 stocks. You have 
$50,000 in your portfolio. Prizes wiH be awarded to the 3 highest valued 
portfolios. The contest runs from 
Oct. 5 to Nov. 27. Winners will be contacted by phone. The awards will be 
presented at our Dec. 2 meeting (held 
in Skibo, Rm. 45, at 7pm).
prizes provided by:
E. F. Hutton and Prudential-Bache
...to sign-up stop by our 
table in Skibo Grey Matter. We will be there Tuesday 
through Friday (9-29 to 
10-2), from 11 -3pm.
Only $2 per entry
Enter as often as you want.
Compete against campus celebrities.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanSeptember 29,1987
John Stuper: From Butler to the World Series
By PERRY PIERCE
Tartan Staffwriter
When the Carnegie Mellon Baseball Club 
played Butler Community College recently, 
everyone playing baseball between the foul 
lines had dreams of playing for the World 
Championship. But one person on the side
lines had lived those fantasies for real. John 
Stuper, a graduate of Butler Community Col
lege and now coach of the Pioneers, spent 7 
hard years working to make his dream of 
pitching in the World Series a reality.
Stuper graduated from Butler High School in 
1975, and moved on to Butler Community 
College. There he was a standout in baseball 
and basketball, and when his time was up at the 
2-year school, he moved on to Point Park 
College. At Point Park he tuned his pitching 
skills, and was drafted by the Pittsburgh Pi
rates in the eighteenth round of the 1978 draft. 
Stuper, at 62" 200 lbs, was a good right
handed pitching prospect because of his size. 
I relied on a fastball, a hard breaking slider, 
and a curve ball. It was a real thrill being 
CAgi.SC s1 .S TRS.TkE .SgR3v S KTRb
RSE.SCP udS0EL CAgi.SC 0E .S S0L.SSE. 
ATeEC C0CEJ. sT.SA RS .TT ReK g. gUUPv
But after his baseball eligibility was over at 
Point Park,he still wanted a degree. His first 
pro year, he was taking classes at LaRoche to 
finish up his undergraduate work in English. 
So in the spring, he went to training camp with 
the team while taking classes at the same time. 
There were times when I had to type papers at 
camp and send them to school. It was a real 
hassle, but I finally got my degree.
In 1978, three months after being drafted, 
Stuper received notice that he was traded from 
the Pirates to the St. Louis Cardinals for Tom 
Sandt, the current first base coach for the 
Pittsburgh Pirates. It wasnt a trade that 
stopped the baseball world, as Stuper was only
a Class A ballplayer at the time.
He worked hard for 3 years in the minors, but 
in 1982, he finally saw the light at the end of 
the tunnel. He started the year 7-1 with the 
Louisville Cardinals, St. Louis triple A farm 
club. Then on May 28, 1982, Stuper got the 
call to join the Cardinals in St. Louis. When 
I arrived, I was very excited, but had to contain 
myself...I looked around and saw all the guys 
that I watched play on TV, but I couldnt be in 
awe of them. It was my job to get them all out. 
What made it a little more manageable was 
that I had spent a good part of spring training 
with the Cards the two previous years.
His first major league start came on June 1, 
1982, versus the San Fransisco Giants. In that 
game Stuper went eight innings, allowed three 
earned runs on five hits and two walks, and got 
a no-decision. I pitched a good game that 
night, but not a great one. Of course I was 
nervous, but I did get a triple that helped me get
the no-decision.
Stuper went 9-7 for St. Louis in 1982, but 
more importantly, the Cardinals won 92 
games and the National League Pennant. John 
was scheduled to start game 2 of the series 
against the Milwaukee Brewers, but was not 
too overwhelmed by the pressure he face^. 
Most of the tension was eased as he charted 
pitches for game 1 of the series. We lost that 
game 10-1, and the first two guys in the lineup, 
Paul Molitor and Robin Yount, had nine hits in 
the game. Seeing how they hit in that first 
game, I wasnt as nervous when I got out to 
start game two. The first three hitters in the 
Brewers lineup that year had 200 hits each. 
Stuper always thrived on the pressure of th^ 
big game. But after his team had been rocked 
10-1 the night before, he was not as keyed up 
as he normally was for such a big start. I 
really wasnt that nervous for the game. I liked 
being nervous when I pitched, because it 
helped me work faster. Stuper only lasted 
four innings in his first World Series start, 
yielding four runs and getting a no-decision.
The Cardinals were having a tough series, 
and Whitey Herzog, the Cardinals managed, 
gave the ball to Stuper for game six. The 
Cardinals were behind three games to two, and 
found themselves backed against the wall. 
Stuper definitely felt pressure as he went out to 
the pitcher's mound, because this time the se
ries rested on his arm. I was more nervous for 
that game than I have ever been in my life. 
More nervous than my first kiss, my first 
date...nervousness also helped me pitch fasted. 
But I had never pitched quicker than I did that 
night. I was pitching so fast that the hitters 
were stepping out all the time to try and slow 
me down.
The Cardinals responded to his pitching 
performance, as they trounced the Brewers 13- 
1, as Stuper went all the way on a four hitter. 
That was by far the best pitching performance 
of my life. The Cards went on to win gam 
seven and take the Series four games to three. 
Winning it all was the biggest thrill. I got a 
little bit of money, but I got the ring.
Most of Stupers high praises for the Cardinal 
organization are directed toward theirmanager, Whitey Herzog. Whitey is by far the 
smartest man in baseball. He is constantly 
three or four innings ahead of the game be
tween the white lines, playing out scenarios ( " 
pitching matchups in the later innings. The 
Cardinals were a great team (in 1982), but 
Whitey made us all that much better.
Stuper also thinks very highly of what the 
Cardinals have assembled in the defensive 
department. Ozzie Smith is by far, the most 
dominating defensive player in baseball. He 
will get his seventy or so RBIs a year, but he 
will save your team over 100 runs with h: 
defense. If you look at it, he alone is putting 
175 runs a year into your pocket. I cant count 
how many times he saved me from taking a 
loss.
The 1982 season proved to be Stupers best 
year. In 1984, he developed shoulder prob
lems and was only 3-5. In 1985, he was 
involved in a trade that sent him to Cincinnatti 
for Bill Gullickson. With the Reds he was 8 t 
5, with a 4.55 ERA in 13 starts and 20 appear
ances from the bull pen. After struggling, the 
Reds released him in the middle of the season, 
and he was picked up by the Montreal Expos. 
Although on the roster, he never threw another 
pitch in the big leagues. No one wanted me. 
Everyone in the front offices kept saying that 
they had people just as talented as me, but they 
were only getting paid minimum salary. M 
contract was just too big.
H.eBSA gp iTEC RSRTA0Sp Ti 0p 1SgAp 0E .S 
s0L USgLeSp3 se. S gUpT gp 0p E0L.RgASpz 
mphSC gsTe. .S .TeLSp. 0..SA S SGSA igKSC3 
S LgGS g UgeL gEC 0RRSC0g.SU1 pg0C !0R 
yg0ESpP uMS kgp SUSGSE iTA p0'.SSE Tii RS3 I 
xep. KTeUCEJ. pSSR .T LS. 0R Te.P agpTE
continued on page 14
WEKHPTHENOfDOUTAND AU TWQUAUTYM
OUI DOMINO'S PIZZA'
$.50
$ 50 off any size pizza I
One coupon per pizza 
Expires: 10/11/87
Fast, Free Delivery"
315 North Craig St. 
Phone: 681-1700
623 Greenfield Ave. 
Phone. 521-2970
aL.__







Call Dominos Pizza? Its 
the only way to AVOID THE 
NOID and make sure 
you get hot, delicious 
pizza. At Dominos Pizza, 
we make top-quaJity pizza. 
Our speed is in the store, 
so Dominos Pizza Delivers* 
your hot, custom-made 
pizza safely in less than 
30 minutes. Call for 
Quality. Call Dominos 
Pizza today.
Call us!
Open for lunch 11am- 2am Sua*Thur& 11 am-3am Fri ft Sat.
theiCfc/'
Ou drivara carry laaa man $2000 LhwMad altvary area. C1M6 Domino's Pizza. Inc.
DOMINOS
PIZZA
DELIVERS*
Locally owned and operated.

---------------------------------------------------

September 29,1987The TartanPage 17
First Start Stardom
Freshman Fullback Fran Bellante: PHI Player of the Game
pnoio oy Anay umespie
PHI Player of the Game, freshman fullback Fran Bellante lays a block on Duquesne's Gary 
Eiben.
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Sports Editor 
Fran Bellante is no stranger to South High 
Stadium. He played many games in there in 
the blue and gold uniforms of the Central 
^Catholic Vikings.
However, Saturdays game there was a new 
experience for him. He was again playing 
there, again starting there, but this time he was 
in the red and white uniform of the Carnegie 
Mellon Tartans.
Bellante admits that it felt a little strange. 
We were in the visitors locker room, and the 
game seemed a little harder and faster.
The Tartans emphasize the running game 
with their wing-I offense. Said Bellante, It 
was a.pressure situation, fullback is impor
tant. In any case, in his first Tartan start, he 
responded to the newness and pressure well. 
Bellante rushed for 66 yards on 12 carries, 
second on the team to quarterback Mike 
Hensel. That effort earned him PHI Player of 
the Game honors.
Bellante started the season third on the depth
d1 y(nM HM(-IF,
Tartan Staffwriter
The womens cross-country team finished 
sixth out of an eleven school field at the Al
legheny College Invitational on Saturday 
September 19th. University Athletic Associa
.0TE A0GgU3!S &E0GSAp0.1 Ti yTKSp.SA3 kTE 
.S RSS.3 iTUUTkSC s1 ngE0p0ep gEC 2ASCTE0gP
Freshman Jessica Caplan was the top Tartan 
finisher, placing eleventh overall with a time
chart at fullback. However, in the opener 
against Allegheny, starter Chris Hansen went 
down with a knee injury. The following week, 
backup Eric Polkis injured his foot, thrusting 
Bellante into the starting role.
The week of practice before the Duquesne 
game was much tougher than the previous 
weeks. Were only down to two fullbacks, it 
was a lot harder week, commented Bellante. 
However, he wasnt going it alone. Everyone 
was a big help, he went on.
Bellante didnt receive the ball until the 
Tartans second drive in the first quarter, 
going up the middle for a gain of three yards. 
He was just a bit nervous before he got the call, 
I had butterflies in the beginning, youve just 
got to concentrate.
Bellante only got the ball two more times in 
the first half. But in the second half, he took the 
ball nine more times. I was getting some 
pretty big holes. We were running a lot of 
plays off-tackle. His best efforts came late in 
third quarter with rushes for eighteen and 
fifteen yards that set up the Tartans go ahead
of 20:15. Sophomore Sue Johnson was the 
next Lady Tartan across the line finishing 16th 
overall with a time of 20:37. Pat Fall, Sue 
Sparks, Kelly Shannon, and Rachel Nobel 
rounded off the finishers for CMU.
Last Saturday at Schenley Park, the women 
hosted a triple dual meet with Robert Morris, 
Duquesne, and Pitt. The Lady Tartans man
aged to defeat both the Lady Colonials, 23-34, 
and the Duchesses, 15-50; however they did
touchdown 
It looks like Bellante will again start this 
Saturday against John Carroll. Its always a
suffer a loss to Division I Lady Panthers with 
the score being 19-37.
Johnson and Caplan were the top finishers 
for CMU. They came across the line together 
in a time of 17:18 and finished fifth and sixth 
overall. Fall and Kristin Burgard were the 
next two Tartans to finish, both with the time 
of 17:53, and tenth and eleventh place overall. 
Trish Dimarco finished off the top finishers for 
the Tartans with a time of 19:00 and 16th 
place.
little easier in the second game, according to 
him. If so, imagine what he'll do next week.
Field Hockey 
Team Beats 
Bethany 
Bisons
continued frotn page 02
LgRS k0EE0EL LTgU TE g sSge.0ieU iSSC 
iATR I0pg VgECSRSSAP
mi.SA .S LgRS3 nTgK 8KrTkSUU kgp 
SKp.g.0K .g. .S1 gC kTE3 se. iSU. .g. 
ET .SgR CSpSAGSC 0. RTASP HS LgGS 
KASC0. .T .S .SgR iTA .S0A pB0A0.SC BUg13 
gLLASpp0GSESpp3 gEC .S0A eECgeE.SC 
CSp0AS .T k0EP
Women's Cross-Country Team Takes Two 
Out of Three Against Local Rivals
TAME
THOSE
WILD
ENDS.
Control them. Subdue them. Then moke 
them luxuriant. Thick-Ends' is the sensa
tional way for getting dry, damaged ends to 
behave beautifully. Just leave on after 
shampooing to condition, moisturize and 
add thickness. And see how civilized your 
split ends can be.
Lewis
813 S. Aiken Avenue  Shadyside 
682-4063
ATTENTION 
CMU!
Freerolls will be held on the 
following days:
}
October 4, 11, 17, 18, 24, 25
Tech St., Frew St., and part of 
Schenley Drive will be closed 
from 6 AM to 9 AM.
United Wy

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanSeptember 29,1987
Volleyball Squad 
Blanked By Grove 
City, Allegheny
By NATALIE HAWRYLUK
Tartan Staffer iter
Earlier in the week, the Lady Tartans 
travelled to Grove City, where they 
were defeated by last years Presidents 
Athletic Conference champion Grove 
City College 2-0 and non-conference 
opponent Allegheny College 2-0.
In the first match against the Lady 
Wolverines, Carnegie Mellon used 
three different setters, but the Lady 
Tartans were only able to muster ten 
kills while they massed nine hitting er
rors. Nobody put the ball away, said 
Head Coach Sue Flaherty. Defensively, 
the team made 25 receiving errors.
During the match against Lady Gators, 
the Lady Tartans played more defense, 
at the expense of more offense. The 
team committed only fifteen receiving 
errors, but ten hitting errors left their 
number of kills at only six for the match.
Coach Flaherty commented on the 
youth and relative inexperience of col
lege-level volleyball of her players, 
noting that over half the team are under
classmen. We are improving every day 
at practice. We just have to work on 
confidence and teamwork. The team
work will come together as soon as 
Monica Zalevsky and Chris Mauro are 
able to return to the starting lineup.
In Pittsburgh Grudge Match
Cross-Country Coach Wins 200th Dual Meet
photo by Rich Shipjey
Two Carnegie Mellon runners ahead of the pack in the Tartan victory.
Rugby Shuts Out Wheeling
By DAVID BRILL
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor 
After last years rebuilding season the rugby 
team is off to an auspicious start this semester. 
They have now won their last three games in a 
row including this weekends shutout Over 
Wheeling College. The ruggers won 28-0 in
CLOTHING MIN AND YOUNG MEN SINCE I9M
London Dock
Our new collections have arrived from 
GirbcucJ, Edwin, Jimmy'Z, Polo, 
Alexander Julian, and Gotcha.
5842 Forbes Avenue 
Squirrel Hill421-5710
Fox Chapel Plaza 
Freeport & Fox Chapel Roads781-0811
.S m LgRS TE  .A0Sp gEC 9 KTEGSAp0TEpP aTE 
cgAC pKTASC g LgRS 0L 7 .A0Sp3 pTk0EL 
LTTC RTGSp TE 0p UTEL AeEpP 6.SA .A0Sp kSAS 
pKTASC s1 rTR (gEET3 FA0K MTiiRgE gEC -geU 
rSigUnT (0p pSKTEC 0E .kT kSShp)P !S .kT 
conversion kicks were made by Joe Villareal. 
Carnegie Mellons game featured tight de
fense and they have held opponents to 10 
points in their last two games.
In the B game, the game ended in a 6-6 tie. 
The only try was scored by Chaten Balachandra with a nice assist from John Lucena. The B 
team, composed of mostly freshmen, was 
quite impressive in this outing. The team is 
looking for good things from the B team in the 
future. The rugby squads next game is Satur
day at home against Hiram.
(Pit sbu rsgh 'eia nud
FOREIGN STUDENTS, 
IMMIGRANTS, 
DONT TAKE CHANCES
Too many people try to cut costs, get tree 
advice, let a friend help them, only to find 
out the mistakes ... TOO LATE
WHEN YOU NEED LEGAL HELP CALL AN EXPERT ...
IMMIGRATION ATTORNEYGEORGE MOWOD
421-4447
Very reasonable rates  Quoted in advance
? GREEN CARDS* STATUS CHANGE/WORK PERMITSI
AMNESTY - LEGALIZATION j
By RICH SHIPLEY
Tartan Staffer iter
It was a close but sweet victory in two ways 
for the mens cross-country team Saturday in 
Schenley Park. Th Tartans managed to out
run the Robert Morris Colonials, 24-35. f
The Colonials have caused much contro
versy in recent weeks with reports of their 
runners cutting the courses short, thus being 
disqualified from several meets. Tartan Head 
Coach Gary Meckley was prepared to see that 
the race was on the up-and-up. To ensure a fair 
race, Meckley had spotters at key intersections 
and turn-arounds throughout the course.
The victory also had a special significane^ - 
for Meckley. Not only was it his 89th consecu
tive dual meet victory, it was his 200th as a 
coach at Carnegie Mellon.
The Colonials threatened the Tartans with 
their top runner, Aling, taking first place with 
the time of 25:53. Fortunately for CMU, they 
did not have the depth of strong runners that 
the Tartans had. Keith Stopen, Pat Noll, and 
Paul Camine took the next three places for th* 
Tartans. Gary Meiker and Kevin Helm came 
in seventh and eighth to seal the victory.
Pat Noll and Paul Camine both had impres
sive finishes to their races. At the two mile 
marker Noll and Camine were fifth and sixth, 
ASpBSK.0GSU1; g. .S AgKSJp SEC .S1 i0E0pSC 
third and fourth. In doing this, they knocked a 
Robert Morris runner from third to fifth place; 
this was a key factor in the Tartans victory, r
Keith Stopen did not have the strong finish 
that Aling from Robert Morris had. The two 
were stride for stride with each other at the two 
mile marker; Stopen even had a slight lead at 
the return trip past the marker. As the two 
leaders came out of the woods for the final lap 
around Flagstaff, Stopen was only some 4-5 
seconds behind. Aling then kicked into high 
gear and finished well ahead of Stopen.
OWJIr-h*
vi2
Til'iJIU:, ,
iUynH bff I  .T 
B*T\ U
? )l- flT)
u tz -;,t <7) t " V * *  . t 
mfrBTi'ZT W'J?
mmma*
t t
Recruit Co., Ltd. employment openings currently include opportunities in 
Tokyo, New York and Los Angeles for Application Analysts, Market 
Analysts, System Engineers, Sales Engineers and Administrative 
Coordinators.
For more information, call our toll-free numbers listed below or 
write Recruit U.S.A., Inc.
o RECRUIT U.S.A., INC. ^ : <?*
725 S. Figueroa St., 31st Floor TOLL FREE
Los Angeles, CA 90017 California (800) 423-3387
Other (800) 326-9750

---------------------------------------------------

Scoreboard
Tartan Calendar
September 29: Field Hockey at Washington & Jefferson, 4:30 pm
Volleyball at Washington & Jefferson, 6:00 pm 
Sportsline on WRCT-FM (88.3), 8:30 pm 
September 30: Soccer vs Case Western Reserve at Tech Field, 3:30 pm
Womens Tennis at John Carroll, 2:00 pm 
Baseball at LaRoche 
October 1: Field Hockey at Oberlin, 4:30 pm
Volleyball at Thiel w/Westminster, 6:00 pm 
October 3: Football at John Carroll, 2:00 pm (WRCT-FM)
Soccer vs U. Chicago at Tech Field, 1:00 pm 
Mens Cross-Country at Hiram, 11:00 am 
Womens Cross-Country at Hiram, 11:00 
October 4: Baseball at Beaver Community College
IM Report
IM Report
TOUCH FOOTBALL 
Commissioners
Major League Paul Masalsky x5468 
Intermediate Pat Jeffries x4299 
Minors Mike Grzy winski 
Women Only Stephanie Janczak x4229 
Last call for Women Only Touch Football 
Final entry date Thursday, October 1st at 
4:30p.m. Please call Stephanie at x4229 to 
enter your team.
Team standings are posted on IM Bulletin 
Board.
IM TENNIS
Commissioner Mike Hayes x4086 
Please turn in the scores of your matches as 
soon as your match has been played. All scores 
should be turned in at the IM office.
CO REC VOLLEYBALL 
Commissioner Mike Grzy winski, 681- 
2826.
Play off games will be played this week. See 
IM Board for play off schedule.
GOLF
Commissioner Brian Wilson x5448. 
the E. J. Birdy Open was held Sunday Sep
tember 27th at the Schenley Park Golf Course.
WATER POLO
Commissioner Pat Hensler x5981.
Water Polo matches will begin on Tuesday, 
September 29th at 9:00 p.m. Please check IM 
Bulletin Board for the schedule of league 
matches.
SPORTS COMING UP!
ENTRY DUE THURSDAY, OCTOBER 
1ST AT 4:30 P.M.
CHESS
Commissioner Matt Murbach x3934
Last call for chess. Final entry date will be 
Thursday, October 1st at 4:30 p.m. Matches 
will begin the week of October 5th.
SOCCER6 PERSON TEAM
Commissioners
Major League Stu Fox
Intermediate Mike Grzy winski 681-2826
Minor Stephanie Janczak x4229
Women Only Stephanie Janczak x4229
TEAM VOLLEYBALL6 PERSON 
TEAM
Commissioner Stu FoxIntermediate-West
SAE-B
Won
0
Loss
IM CROSS COUNTRY MEETDEFECTS
SUDSUCKERS
0
0The 1987 intramural cross country meet willTHE SQUAD01
be held this Thursday, October 1 st at 4:30 p.m.D.U.01
on Flag Staff Hill in Schenley Park.THE TWITS 
THE ZOO 
M. E. GRADS
1
1
0
0
3BOWLINGSEI3
Commissioner Randy Brown x5501
Matches will be rolled at Strand Lanes onMinors-Pac-10 
SIG TAU
Won
0
Loss
Forbes Avenue on Saturday Mornings. ASMODNOCS0
special reduced rate will be in effect for all IMBEN WA BALLSI!
bowling matches.AFROTC1
NAVY ROTC 
BEER TEAM
1
0RACQUETBALL
Commissioner Carl Bell x5509.Minors-SEC
CIA-B
Won
3
Loss
TEAM TABLE TENNISDRAG FORCE 
WAWAWS III
0
11Commissioner Bob Koca x8975.SCHLAG ASSYLUM10
Final entry date Thursday, October 1st.ZOO0
Please list if you would like to play in the majorAE PI0
or minor league.Minors-Big 10 
DELTA UPSILON
Won
0
Loss
NEXT INTRAMURAL BOARD MEETKDR1
INGSCHLAG BOYSI1
FLINTSTONESI1Thursday, October 1st 1 p.m. in the GymTHE CLAN WITH A C10
Conference Room. All board members pleasePROUD PETE0
plan to attend this important meeting.Majors Independents 
PIKA-C 2
WonLoss
TOUCH FOOTBALLDYNAMIC RAMS 2Majors Won LossBOSS 2ND FLOORATO 27-ECSTACIES I1CRUNCH BUNCH 2BOINGERS0BETA I 1ARMY ROTC0PIKA-A 1 1
GSIA 2Minors-AllWonLossKAPPA SIGMA 2PILAM
MONKEY PUS
0
0Intermediate-East Won LossDTDEASY MONEY 3MUDGE MAULERS0ECE-DRAMS 2LONESOME LOSERS0THETA XI 3 1
PIONEERS 2 1Minors-UAAWonLossMEAT DOGHOUSE 1 1BONE CRUSHERS0CIA-A 1 INP COMPLETIONSNASAL VOMIT 2ZBT11
CAMPANAS MISFITS 3MARYBELLE APTS1IPHI KAPPA THETA 3SAE-C2
Complete with written guarantee
PRECISION CUT$13.00
Complete with shampoo and blow style
JUST-A-CUT
only $8.00
Cut only
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED! 
Great Styles Start at
MUST HAVE COUPON 
~~SV$2.00
AP**0(N>MI Nt NfClbSAB
on a
I PRECISION HAIRCUT IIComplete with shampoo & styling
Offer Expires 
October 31
6lttJiT EHPCCTfmtns
PRECISION HAIRCUT TERS
237 Atwod Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
687-3500
He was just this guy in 
my class with coollooking hair. I never 
thought we had any
thing in common 
until we ran into each 
other at Great Expecta
tions.
CHfccmntnsPRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
Sarah and Tim: Hottest 
couple. Class of 87
HOWTO ENRICH YOUR EDUCATION BY $1,000 A MONTH.
(i 1TeJAS g Rg.3 SEL0ESSA0EL TA B1p0KgU 
pK0SEKSp RgxTA3 1Te KTeUC sS SgAE0EL 
XO3WWW g RTE. CeA0EL 1TeA xeE0TA gEC 
pSE0TA 1SgApP
!0p S'KSUUSE. TBBTA.eE0.1 0p BgA. Ti 
.S fgG1 feKUSgA -ATBeUp0TE 6ii0KSA 
ngEC0Cg.S -ATLAgRP (.Jp TES Ti .S RTp. 
BASp.0L0Tep kg1p Ti SE.SA0EL .S EeKUSgA 
i0SUClgEC ASkgAC0EL3 .TTP ,Te LS. g 
Xt3WWW sTEep eBTE SE.AgEKS 0E.T .S 
BATLAgR3 gEC X93WWW RTAS kSE 1Te 
KTRBUS.S 1TeA fgGgU p.eC0SpP
,Te gUpT ASKS0GS g 1SgA Ti Bg0C 
LAgCeg.SlUSGSU .Ag0E0EL .g.Jp .S RTp. 
KTRBASSEp0GS 0E .S kTAUCP mEC 1TeJUU 
gKqe0AS S'BSA.0pS k0. p.g.SlTil.SlgA.
EeKUSgA ASgK.TA gEC BATBeUp0TE BUgE. 
.SKETUTL1'P
mp g fgG1 Tii0KSA3 1TeJUU USgC .S 
gCGSE.eAS k0US Lg0E0EL 0LlUSGSU S'BSb
A0SEKS .g. k0UU SUB RghS 1Te g USgCSA 0E 
TES Ti .S kTAUCJp 0Ll.SK 0ECep.A0SpP
(E gCC0.0TE .T .S BATiSpp0TEgU 
gCGgE.gLSp3 EeKUSgAl.Ag0ESC Tii0KSAp LS. 
gE eEsSg.gsUS sSESi0.p BgKhgLS3 
.AgGSU TBBTA.eE0.0Sp3 BATRT.0TEp gEC 
g pTU0C pgUgA1P
20EC Te. RTAS gsTe. .S fgG1 
feKUSgA -ATBeUp0TE 6ii0KSA ngEC0Cg.S 
-ATLAgR3 gEC RghS 1TeA SCeKg.0TE p.gA. 
Bg10EL Tii .TCg1P ngUU fgG1 8gEgLSb
RSE. -ATLAgRp4 (412) 644-6435
Lt. Jennifer Reed will be in the Placement Office on Oct. 1,1987, 
from 9:00 am to 4:00 pm. Sign up in the Placement 
Office for an interview.
NAVY^ OFFICER.
... : LEAD THE ADVENTURE.

---------------------------------------------------

S
The Tartan
PORTS
VARSITY IM REPORT  SPORTS FEATURES
CBS
TartnSfwieim
SLEPT PW i . y.'SiL.e~QnJ) 
.PRerero d ij~ 'DoesKij-sfi'-.HAireR
J&67
& 
w
>4
HBU AND U)LC0M 70 CSS 90NDAy 
QPTE&ftooisJ QHoPrVC-sT. u WT 
4 GfteftT oouueHeftoea Fo& shw 
this AFTER/vooti. PiRsr \t)e'u60 TD me ASIAN oes&KT FoR
IHAN YEETP O??  JcE , n> w
QNTftRTKL ft>d UoHfM TH6 AJM70ES 
fiPTeCTlOAiATZCy CflLL "POLAfiALL-yess/g. -rfris /s 6om*-Q>e bsotmy
TD Ke<H(V\e>6. IVHO NeeDS'THHFL,
HAHA HU NOTIMS MA)0*R?
Carnegie Mellon Retains Pittsburgh Division III Bragging Rights
Tartans Edge Duquesne on Late TD
photo by Andy Gillespie
Bill Cramer runs for daylight after an interception in the Tartans' 17-13 win over 
Duquesne on Saturday night.Field Hockey Team Defeats 
Bethany In Double Overtime
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Contributing Editor 
The Tartans had come to South Stadium 
looking for their first big win of the season at 
the expense of a supposedly weak Duquesne 
team.
It didn't happen. Instead, what they got was 
an intense, penalty filled battle marked by bad 
feelings and extra-curricular hits on both 
sides.
There is no love lost between the two teams, 
each of whom resents the others style of play 
and attitude. For most of the game, the emotion 
of the Duquesne Dukes looked like it would 
triumph over the cool intensity of Carnegie 
Mellon.
But the Tartans were able to invoke their now 
familiar fourth quarter magic and mixed it 
with Duquesne panic for a 17-13 comeback 
victory.
Duquesne had pulled into a 13-10 lead with 
a 37-yard Doug McAuley field goal late in the 
thirdquarter. The Dukes turned the ball overto 
a Carnegie Mellon offense that had sputtered 
so far in the second half.
Mike Beresford provided a jump start to the 
Tartan offense by returning the kickoff 23 
yards to the 38. PHI Player of the Game, 
freshman fullback Fran Bellante took over and 
blew through the line for two outstanding 
power runs, putting the ball at the Duquesne 
29. Bellante, who gained 63 of his 66 yards 
rushing in the second half, just barrelled ahead 
with his 5'8", 220 pound body trying to find or 
make a hole.
Liking what they saw, Carnegie Mellon kept 
to the ground and punched the ball in with a 
series of rollouts and keepers. Mike Hensels 
five yard touchdown run with 11:56 left in the 
game put Carnegie Mellon in the lead for 
good.
ATO Snaps 
Pika's Win 
Streak
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Sports Editor 
After five years of victories, the Pika 
majors IM team didnt know how to 
lose anymore. That was until ATO 
taught them how in a 20-19 upset last 
week.
With two seconds left, ATO quarter
back Chris Koschofound center Gary 
Como in the end zone for the winning 
strike.
Pika jumped out to an early 13-0 lead 
with freshman quarterback Mike Reed 
firing two touchdown strikes to center 
Steve Krom. However, ATO battled 
back on touchdown passes from Koscho 
to Zach Oxman and Mike Nazzarro. 
Pika's Reed later found Evan Kaliner 
with a thirty yard touchdown pass to go 
ahead 19-14.
Although most of the fourth quarter re
mained, Duquesne abandoned the running 
tandem of Sean McDonough, Tom Celadonia 
and Jamie Colosimo that had served them so 
well through the first three quarters. The 
Dukes ran the ball only twice in the final 
frame, instead trying to move the ball quickly 
through the air.
The Tartan defense, which allowed 200 
ground yards through three quarters, delighted 
in the change and shut down the passing game 
to preserve the win. Duquesne quarterback 
Shawn ODonnell was ineffective, collecting 
only nine yards and one first down in three 
final drives.
Both teams played a rugged first half, caus
ing referee Chuck Hunnell to dole out 90 yards 
in penalties. While many were inconsequen
tial, penalties set up both first half touch
downs.
The Carnegie Mellon defense seemed to 
have the Dukes stopped on their own 40 yard 
line with the game tied at 3-3. But after a third 
and seven incomplete pass, the Tartans were 
socked with a holding call that gave Duquesne 
new life at midfield.
Three plays later, junior tailback Sean 
McDonough broke a tackle at the line of scrim
mage and strode 37 yards into the end zone for 
a touchdown. McDonough, the spark plug of 
the Dukes offense, had an impressive 128 
yards on 19 carries for the evening.
But the jellow flag would also follow 
Duquesne. Already smarting from a brilliant 
20 yard punt return by CMUs Bill Cramer, 
which put the ball on the Duquesne 30, the 
Dukes were socked with a fifteen yard per
sonal foul.
The Tartans took full advantage of their field 
position, sending senior halfback Bill Heiser 
off the left side for a good eleven yard run to set 
up a first and goal at the five. But while 
Carnegie Mellon coaches pulled their hair out 
over another holding call on the next play, 
Mike Hensel found senior tight end Tim Kelly 
in the back of the end zone to knot the score at 
10-10.
Next Week: The Tartans open Presidents 
Athletic Conference play on Saturday with 
their longest trip of the year, up to John Carroll 
University in Cleveland. The Blue Streaks 
have a new head coach and quarterback, but 
have been 3-0 surprises thus far this season. 
They upset defending North Coast Athletic 
Conference champion Baldwin Wallace two 
weeks ago, and clobbered Thiel 40-0 on Satur
day.
Carroll is clearly tougher than expected. In 
order to preserve their undefeated record, the 
Tartans must be able to run with authority 
against the Blue Streak defense. But Carnegie 
Mellon will still be without injured fullbacks 
Chris Hansen and Eric Polkis, putting more 
pressure on the remaining backs, especially 
freshman Fran Bellante. Quarterback Mike 
Hensel has raised his completion percentage, 
and is running the ball well.
The defense still seems vulnerable to the run, 
giving up 215 yards against Duquesne on the 
ground, but still shows toughness in crucial 
situations. It isnt going to be an easy week for 
the Tartans, especially on the road.
By SHAFI KHAN
Tartan Staffwriter
As the field hockey Tartans travelled to 
Bethany, West Virginia, there was an unusual 
anxiety on the bus. Perhaps the team was just 
tired from all of their classes and decided to 
rest on the bus. Well, whatever it was, it didnt 
carry over to the game, because as soon as they 
stepped on the field, they were fired up and full 
of energy.
After a 7-1 thrashing by Bethany last year, 
the Lady Tartans wanted to show Bethany that 
they could play with them. That they did, and 
more. Having never beaten Bethany during 
the four years that Jan McDowell has been 
Head Coach of the field hockey team, the Lady 
Tartans pulled off an incredible, emotional 
upset win over the Bethany Bisons 1-0 in 
double overtime. Up against a better team, 
Coach McDowell told the team, Play like 
there is no tomorrow, and they all responded, 
with an incredible effort that lasted throughout 
the game.
A nervous anticipation was felt from the 
players on both sides as they lined up for the 
opening face-off and this intensity elevated 
throughout the game up until the final buzzer. 
The game contained all the elements for an 
exciting game: a fast playing surface, numer
ous scoring opportunities, sharp defense, 
minimum fouls, and excellent execution by 
both teams.
At the outset of the game, Bethany moved the 
ball well and put continuous pressure against 
Carnegie Mellons defense. Instead of crum
bling, though, the defense held off every one of 
Bethanys drives and managed to slow the 
pace down to a more comfortable level. Out
standing defense early on came from backs
Hetal Nanavati and Aelan Tierney.
By the middle of the first half, Bethany had 
lost its edge on speed and the Lady Tartans 
began to mount some serious pressure of their 
own. On one promising drive Eirene 
Yamamura fired a nice, low shot that barely 
missed the net, deflecting a foot wide of the 
net. With time running out in the first half, the 
Lady Tartans missed a golden opportunity to 
score when forward Sarah Fay centered a pass 
past the oncoming Bethany goalie in front of 
an open net, but nobody was there to blast it 
home.
In the second half, the Lady Tartans picked 
up their game and played evenly with the 
Bisons, matching them drive for drive and 
attacking each loose ball. Bethany had a few 
good shots that crossed to their center but no 
one was able to score from them. Back Jenny 
Saffren played intensely as she stopped sev
eral of Bethanys drives late in the game. Her 
intensity was fueled by a Bethany player who , 
constantly hit her in the knees.
When the second half had ended, and the 
scoreboard still showed 0-0, Bethany ap
peared to have lost their wind. They were 
frustrated by Carnegie Mellons determina
tion, solid play, and endurance.
By the time the first overtime rolled around, 
the momentum had clearly switched. Carne
gie Mellon now consistently put heavy pressure on Bethany and ran aggressively after 80 
minutes of intense hockey. Although the Lady 
Tartans didnt score, they were psyched to 
begin the second overtime.
In the second overtime, Carnegie Mellon 
didnt waste any time as they scored 1:15 into 
the overtime. Maya Sternberg banged in the
continued on page 17

---------------------------------------------------

DRAMA....................Page D2
CMU Drama Season begins with 
Brechts Good Women of Setzuan
JOE BOB...................PageD3
Hellraiser has got 78 gallons blood and 
147 gallons slimeIVERSION
ENTERTAINMENT  COMICS  CALENDAR  CLASSIFIEDS
Mongolian Music and Dance Debuts at CMU
By LESLIE GRIFFIN
Assistant Diversions Editor 
It will be worth your while to take a break this 
Thursday night, October 1, to catch the Mon
golian Music and Dance Troupe performing at 
Carnegie Music Hall. The performance is an 
5 international event marking the opening of 
diplomatic and artistic ties between the U.S 
and the Peoples Republic of Mongolia. It also 
marks the troupes first appearance before 
Western audiences and their first visit to the 
United States.
They are flying directly from Mongolia to 
Pittsburgh, so this will be their first experience 
with the States. We want people to attend the 
"performance so they will have a warm welMongolian Dance uses grace and balance
come. says Verna Gillis, noted ethnomusicologist and member of CMUs music depart
ment faculty.
The troupes Pittsburgh appearance will kick 
off a tour being arranged by the New York 
city-based Asia Society which will take the 
performers on to such cities as New York, 
Washington D.C., Berkeley, California, and
The Pittsburgh Symphony Season
Using the universal language ofmusic, the Mongolian Music and Dance Troupe will make their U.S. Debut in Pittsburgh
Honolulu.
Situated in the northern Central Asian 
steppes between China and the U.S.S.R., the 
Mongolian Peoples Republic is the worlds 
largest landlocked country. Most Americans 
know of at least one famous Mongolian, 
Genghis Khan, whose 13th century conquests 
resulted in the famous Empire of the Golden 
Horde. To this day, the aura of Mongolian 
bravado is reflected in the daring horseman
ship, competitive wrestling and archery mat
ches, and virtuosic traditional performing arts.
The approximately two hour program will 
feature music and dance traditionally per
formed at village festivals. The colorfully 
costumed musicians and dancers of the Mon
golian ensemble will give audiences a lively 
look at the traditional entertainment of a nation 
that is rich in history and culture, yet whose 
songs, instruments and dances "are relatively
unknown in the Western world,  says Ms. 
Gillis.
New to most Americans, Ms. Gillis explains, 
will be the khoomei style of traditional sing
ing, where a single vocalist produces two 
tones simultaneously. The singer, while in
toning a long low note, simultaneously emits a 
series of very high, flute-like tones, creating 
the impression of one person singing chords.
The theme of horses, which is central to 
Mongolian folk life, pervades the program. 
This influence can be seen in several dances, 
like Breaking in the Horse where the dancer 
imitates the prowess of Mongolian equestri
ans with brilliant leaps and spins. The theme 
extends even to musical instruments  the. 
morinhoor, or horsehead fiddle, is a two 
stringed, vertically held fiddle which derives 
its name from the horses head sculpted into 
the wood above the tuning pegs.
In addition to the performance on Thursday 
night, the troupe will offer a workshop on 
Friday, October 2 from 10:00 am to 2:00 pm in 
the Alumni Concert Hall in the College of Fine 
Arts. Through interpreters, the artists will 
explain their instruments, vocal techniques 
and dances in greater detail.
The troupes appearance in Pittsburgh is 
largely due to the efforts of Music Department 
Head Joel Thome, an internationally known 
expert in global music, who worked with Ms. 
Gillis to arrange the visit. This group is in
dicative of the kind of things to come. We 
want to to bring the best from around the world 
here, says Ms. Gillis.
Tickets for the performance are $10 and $8, 
with a special $5 price for students and senior 
citizens. To make reservations call the Car
negie Mellon box office at 268-2407 between 
noon and 5:00 pm. Curtain is at 8:00 pm.
Salerno-Sonnenberg and Macal Captivate Symphony Audience
By LORI MAURER
Diversions Staffw'riter
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra contin
ued their 1987-88 concert subscription series 
at Heinz Hall this weekend with a program that 
included Roberto Sierras Jublio Overture, 
Mendelssohn*s Concerto in E Minor for Vio
lin and Orchestra, Opus 64, and Brahms 
Symphony No. 1 in C Minor, Opus 68. The 
symphony was directed by guest conductor 
Zdenek Macal of the Milwaukee Symphony 
Orchestra and featured renowned guest violin
ist, Nadja Salerno-Sonnenberg.
The concert began with Roberto Sierras 
Jublio Overture. Sierras piece received its 
Pittsburgh Symphony debut this weekend. It 
was written by Puerto Rico native Sierra as a 
tribute to the three hundredth birthdays of 
Baroque composers Bach, Handel and Scar
latti. The Latin roots of the composer were 
apparent, particularly in the sections which 
involved strong percussion. Sierra's composi tion was a work of contrasts varying from eerie
strings to heavy percussion and between omi
nous brass and soothing woodwinds. Jublio 
ended in an accelerating pace of increasing 
dynamics.
The Symphonys rendition of Jublio was 
well-done and Macals familiarity with the 
work (he conducted its premiere with the 
Puerto Rico Orchestra in 1985) eased the 
apparent awkwardness of the symphony 
(compared to the traditional works of Men
delssohn and Brahms which followed). Over
all, Sierra's work was a unique tribute to the 
baroque era. The similarity of the two wasn't 
immediately apparent to the listener but the 
piece was exhilarating due to its Latin influ
ence and was more than adequately performed 
by the orchestra.
The program continued with Mendelssohn's 
Concerto in E Minor for Violin and Orchestra, 
which featured solo violinist Nadja SalernoSonnenberg. Salerno-Sonnenberg brought an 
extraordinary amount of zeal and emotion to 
Mendelssohns workin the first movement. Allegro molto appasionato, Salemo-Sonnenberg's interpreta
tion was so compelling that each note trans
fixed the audience. Salemo-Sonnenbergs 
playing in the Andante movement was breathtakingly beautiful, she showed that she could
easily make the contrast between the impas
sioned first movement and the romantic sec
ond movement. The Concertoended in a flour
ish with the Allegro molto vivace movement. 
Salemo-Sonnenberg's technique w as flaw less 
continued on page D9
Nadja Salerno-SonnenbergZdenek Macal

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2The T artanSeptember 29,1987
This Week
Doherty Hall 2210
Thursday, Oct. 1
6,8,10 
Friday, Oct. 2
THE GOLDEN
6,8,10,12CHILD
Sunday, Oct. 4
zi : ;........mm\E> ?
____________<GILiyjlU teaches
rock climbing classes throughout the fall. Also 
kayaking, sailing, caving, hiking, wind surfing 
and much more.
TTlrOip mmy 2
Weekly Meetings
Thurs. 6:30 PM 
225C Baker
)" jo&z (l? o, 
)T jo&zM?&
5168 PENN AVE.
Pkme
16 INCH PEPPERONI PIZZA $4.?>tax
Saturday 11 am - 2 am 
Sunday through Friday 3 pm - 2 am
Drama Season Offers Mixture of Old and New
d1 8(nMmFI y6HF
Diversions Theatre Critic
The 1987-88 Drama Department Mainstage 
season is almost upon us. With their first play 
of the year previewing on October 7, the 
imminent season promises a great deal for 
theatre aficionados and occasional showgoers 
alike.
The season, looked at as a whole, might seem 
a bit patchwork at first glance. The plays were 
chosen earlier in the year by Drama Depart
ment Dean Elisabeth Orion in collaboration 
with the individual directors. Drama Dept. 
Assistant Dean Don Marinelli terms the sea
son - eclectic - really what you can come to 
expect from a professional training program. 
Two original musicals, three straight plays, 
and, sponsored by the Drama Dept., the Irish 
Universities Theatre Company. All in all, a 
vibrant and exciting combination.
The first play of the season is Berthold 
Brechts classic Good Woman Of Setzuan, 
directed by CMU alumnus (Class of 69) 
Anthony McKay. Mr. McKay has worked in 
the New York theatre for years, appearing on 
Broadway with Gilda Radner in Lunch Hour 
and in the Negro Ensemble Company produc
tion of The First Breeze Of Summer. OffBroadway he appeared in Moonchildren and 
at Gene Feist's notorious Roundabout The
atre. He has directed productions at Ensemble 
Studio Theatre, Playwrights Horizons, and 
others. This summer he directed Molieres 
George Dandin and A Doctor In Spite Of 
Himself here at the Carnegie Mellon Theatre 
Company. Deep in rehearsals at press time, 
Good Woman is expected to be an excellent 
start to the theatre season, with Director 
McKay incorporating musical elements, ex
perience and an experimentative bent in what 
is sure to be a fascinating show. Good Woman 
previews on the evenings of October 7 and 8, 
and opens the 9th to run through the 17th.
The second show is a world premiere work
shop musical production entitled Portrait by 
Ed Dixon, directed by CMUs Lee 
Sankowich. Mr. Dixon is well known as a 
Pittsburgh performer, having most recently 
appeared in the Civic Light Operas produc
tion of 1776 in July. Portrait is a new musical 
based on Oscar Wildes novel The Picture of 
Dorian Gray, about the infatuation of one man
such as Ken Keseys classic One Flew Over 
The Cuckoo's Nest. Unlike the others, 
however, Mary Barnes provides an optimistic 
look at a kind of halfway - house approach 
to mental illness that works. This production 
will probably be the most traditional theatre 
of the season, according to Dean Marinelli. 
Mary Barnes previews on February 17 and 18 
and opens on the 19th, running through the 
27th.
Broadway Cabaret, conceived and directed 
by Broadway choreographer and director (and 
CMU Associate Professor) Billy Wilson, will
eclectic; really what you can come to expect from a professional training program. _ Don Marine|li
with eternal youth. Mr. Dixon has brought the 
subject forward in time to the present and 
examines the old situation in a modem light. 
Portrait is being presented in cooperation with 
Chiron Productions. If this current workshop 
production goes well, plans are underway to 
stage a full-scale production for the summer 
season. Portrait is previewing November 4 
and 5 and opens on the 6th, running through 
the 14th.
The third production of the season is Mary 
Barnes, by David Edgar, directed by Lee 
Sankowich. The play is a product of the 1960s 
humanistic resurgence and deals with the 
journey of a young woman through and out of 
insanity in a British Hospital. Based on a true 
story, the play has been hailed by the London 
Times as passionate and compassionate and 
received other favorable notices. There are 
parallels between this play and other works
be the fourth production of the season and 
promises to be a smash. Director Wilson, this 
past summer in Vienna, Austria, put together 
a compilation of Broadways hottest musical 
numbers and produced it in a cabaret format. 
The result was a hit. Broadway Cabaret is 
having its American premiere here at Carnegie 
Mellon and is presented in cooperation with 
Carnegie Mellon Music. The show previews 
March 9 and 10 and opens on the 11 th, running 
through the 19th.
The final Drama Dept, production of the 
season will be Pirandellos haunting classic 
Six Characters In Search Of An Author, di
rected by Rina Yerushalmi. In this play, the 
actors and the audience together search to find 
what is real and what is illusion. Director 
Yerushalmi is a CMU alum and has worked in 
the theatres of Israel over the past few years, 
specifically the Haifa Municipal Theatre. She
originally directed Six Characters there, de
veloping the experimental outlook on the 
piece that will be seen here at CMU when the 
show premieres. According to Dean Mar
inelli, the entire production is non-traditional. 
from staging to costuming, and will provide a 
substantial challenge to student perform.*s 
and technicians. Look for Six Characters to* 
preview on April 13 and 14 and to open on the 
15th, running through the 23rd.
Also presented by the Drama Dept, this 
semester is a special four-day residency of the 
Irish Universities Theatre Company, Decem
ber 2-5 at the Kresge Theatre. This company, 
under the sponsorship of the Irish Gove.i.- 
ment, tours America and Europe, presenting 
productions such as J.M. Synges Playboy of 
the Western World, Becketts Waiting for 
Godot, and others. The performers include 
some of Irelands most talented young per
formers. Their appearance here at CMU this 
year is somewhat of a surprise - in the words of 
Dean Marinelli, it was just that one day, the 
phone rang. They are a heavily sponsoi Dd 
group, representing such companies as 
Guiness Beer and Aer Lingus. The Drama 
Dept, warns that ticket availability may be 
quite limited - order early.
All shows are playing in the Kresge Theatre, 
College of Fine Arts, and all start at 8 P.M. 
Tickets are available for all Drama Dept, 
shows at the CFA Box Office, located in t'jp 
entrance hall of CFA. The Box Office is open 
Mon. - Fri., noon to 5 P.M. The phone number 
there is 268-2407. Ticket prices vary, and 
schedules are subject to change, so call to 
reserve your tickets - Visa and Mastercard 
accepted.

---------------------------------------------------

September 29,1987The TartanPage D3
Hellraiser is the Best Gore Flick of the 80s
Heres all you got to know about the history 
of red meat.
1963: Blood Feast. Herschell Gordon 
Lewis paints the screen red for the first time. 
The exact moment: when a girl gets her tongue 
ripped outon cameraby the maniac Egyp
tian caterer Fuad Ramses. The drive-in was 
Changed forever.
1968: Night of the Living Dead. George 
Romero creates the original Zombie Jubilee.
1974: The Texas Chainsaw Massacre. 
Tobe Hooper directs the first true Hamburger 
Helper classic, and gives cannibals the respect
Joe Bob Goes 
to the Drive-In
they deserve.
1978: Halloween. Jamie Lee Curtis starts
10 years of teen-ager shish-ke^bob dinners.
1980: Friday the 13th. Jason puts on the 
hockey mask and makes dead high school kids 
into a standardized art form. Gore goes Holly
wood.
1982: The Evil dead. Sam Raimi makes the 
ultimate Spam-in-a-cabin movie.
1987: Hellraiser. Clive Barker shows the 
whole universe what its all about.
Im not kidding. Were talking new frontiers 
of fried flesh. The star of this flick gets so far 
into some kind of kinky Ayrab jungle sexfiend hocus-pocus swingers club that by the 
second scene of the movie hes getting flayed, 
frayed and filleted by this tribe of mutant 
needle-head octopus-face pus monsters that 
hes created out of his own imagination. We 
got steel hooks, we got manacles, we got 
chains and, yes, we got spare body parts on 
parade.
Heres something else you need to know. 
Remember the maniac mass murderer in the 
original Dirty Harry? The one that hijacks 
the school bus and has the crooked grin? The 
meanest man alive? Its an actor name of 
Andrew Robinson, and in this movie, HES 
THE GOOD GUY.
This is the first movie written and directed by 
Clive Barker, whos from the communist 
country of England, and basically what he did 
is he took the most frightening fear of the pale
face Hush-Puppy English weenie husband and 
made a whole movie about it. The basic idea is 
this: What would happen if your wife is so sick 
of your sniveling nerdy questions and your 
suckin up to her ever time you want something 
that she starts havin sex in the attic with devilhead slime monsters that remind her of your 
brother Frank who she used to have sex with 
before he got flayed and filleted and carried off 
by the nightmare sex monsters?
Sure, you say, its a common problem. 
Weve all been there. But the different thing 
about this movie is how Clive gives us a 
SOLUTION to the problem. One day, while 
theyre moving into a new house, the weenie 
husband slices open his hand on a nail and 
walks in on his wife while shes dreamin about 
making the sign of the double-humped sperm 
whale with Frank, and hes slopping 19 gal
lons of blood a second on the floor and he 
thinks hes gonna faint, and so the wife gets her 
stepdaughter to drive him to the hospital, only 
once hes gone somethin under the floor starts 
DRINKING the blood.
Frank is back from Devil Land, with most of 
his skin ripped off and his blood vessels ex
posed. Hes looked better. But heres the really 
gross part; He wants to get ROMANTIC.
Heres the really grosser part: SHE wants to
Mr. and Miss Varsity
1987
Voting
Wednesday, October 30,1987 
9:00 am - 8:00 pm 
Grey Matter, Skibo
Remember to bring your CMU ID. 
fTR0Eg.SC gAS4
ITe0p npgh 
DSG0E aT1 
!AT1 IgRsSA. 
2AgEh -SAAS..g 
dPaP yT..pKgSiSA 
dA1gE yTSppUSA
fg.gU0S ngBTES 
HepgE Mg1CSE 
ng.1 Mg1Sp 
MgAA0S. DeBiSARgE 
8gAg 8ghUS 
!gRgA0E ,.0SA
lpBTEpTASC s1 Student Alumni Relations Council
It only hurts when he shaves
get romantic.
Heres the one that makes the Vomit Meter 
go off the scale: they DO get romantic.
Theres only one problem: They cant go on 
meeting like this. Frank needs a whole bunch 
of blood to stuff down into his gizzards and 
starts the worlds most ambitious transplant 
surgery. Does she love him enough to go 
trolling her way through singles bars, hoping 
for bald-headed punching bags thatll nuzzle 
up beside her, ask her what her sign is, and trail 
her home for some claw-hammer skull-bash
ing? Of course she does. So now we got part 
vampire movie, part zombie movie, part trib
ute to Psycho and Chainsaw and all other 
documentaries on the life of Ed Gein, the Min
nesota body-parts specialist from the 50s. But 
theres one more thing this movie needs 
giant dragonhead lizard-gut glopola monsters.
Best gore flick of the 80s. No question.
We got 78 gallons blood. 147 gallons slime. 
Two breasts. Ten dead bodies. Chains. Bob
wire. Character actor taffy pull. Flaying. 
Clawing. Manacling. Gratuitous body parts. 
Gratuitous maggots, devil sex. Blood gur
gling. Glopola skeleton chasing, head bash
ing. Rat impaling, rat skinning. Face nailing. 
Claw Hammer Fu. Drive-In Academy Award 
nominations for Oliver Smith, as Frank the 
monster, for saying Every drop of blood you 
spill puts more flesh on my bones, and we both 
want THAT, dont we?; Doug Bradley, as the 
No. 1 mutant cenobite, the name of the 
nightmare Hamburger Helper people, for say
ing No tears, please, its a waste of good 
suffering; Andrew Robinson, as Larry, for 
being such a great weenie; Clive Barker, even 
though hes English; and Clare Higgins, as 
Julia, the wife who would do ANYTHING for 
the love of a zombie in the attic, even if it 
means sacrificing her personal ethics, this 
ladys got cruel lips, laser eyes, and is SCAR
IER than the monster.
Four stars. Joe Bob says check it out twice.
and Gat Music, inc. proudly presentAN EVENING WITHCHUCKMAN6I0NE
SUNDAY, OCTOBER 4 
7:30 PM HEINZ HALL
*15, *12.50, *11, *10
Tickets available at
 Heinz Hall Box Office
 Kaufmann's
 TIX Booths
To Charge by Phone, Call TicketCharge(412) 392-4900
Discounts for Students, Seniors & PEAA Available.

---------------------------------------------------

BLOOM COUNTYby Berke Breathed
2eECSC s1 HPrPn3
oh mm m/ SJ sew up we r "jrneo &onzo &jl?' ,, EY pier pepsi,MI5T6R CLeRK." '
TM SAMP." AN OUTPOST 
OF AMeflOW
CIVILIZATION.HEPOESN'T5REAK,OCAsyHR
irs opus.'HS'5 fOf&tVZN , US' He'S COMNO 
HOMe."
OUT/I JUST StGNEP
YOUR ROOM ?
MAKKK IANG we ATWEL" 
U$5.0~S U0V2G 
on aoMPRW KKKPCOA"HKA VIRTUALLY SACREP____ MEMORIAL TO
/ ww( ^ \mtcitf'XflJU) UpdEUo
WHAT f PIP WE Mitt YOU f WHY, we've mWWE
COUNTING THE HOURS TIC YOUR R6TVRN / RIGHTS
wereGOING
CONPO.
MMoosel
03 wrm
He'd USING HIS ^MICHAEL JACKSON CAUCASIAN KIT " '. AGAIN # WHAT'Sf NeXT? A
wm CLEFTCHIN?/
uAsBht weNpetL uoNesWHAT'S TAKING SO LONG IN TUB JOHN ?f
FIRST. * 7H6 OFFICIAL M/CHA6L JACKSON CAUCASIAN K/T~...
ANP NOW * JHe OFFICIAL MICHAEL JACKSON FACIAL PI5T0/rreRV
JUST A PHAS6 He'S 
FEATF URSE.FRPa6H, eUANOR r
OPUS, PEAR...! MAY ONLY BE A HeAT HALLUCI
NATION, BUT I'M STILL YOUR MOTHER ANP 
YOU'LL LISTEN TO ME~.
I
I
C
NOW GET YOUR WITS ABOUT YOU ANP JUST GET YOUR LITTLE FANNY OUT OF THIS
1P/PNT RAISE MY SON W BE A QUITTER, PIP 1 ?NO,
ANP YOU WILL TAKE CARE OF THAT 0/G 7HATZIT ON YOUR NOSE, IS MY WON'T YOU, PEAR ? NOSE,

---------------------------------------------------

OverloadBy Bob Jenkinsd1 a0R VTASSpnSKh 0R Eld; 
3 ) dTESp7,, I Just LOVE
~ star trek
j/,- mg' $
:j Jim I f^JJj))rCeM <-
LIKE, klLLER 
IMJDES AND
5ABES1 WOESOME 
ANDY HETRE FOR 
; XVZ CABLE 
FE SPORTS.
Inks potsBy Kurt Shaw
WE*RE HERE TO s' 
GROON/E OKI SOME / 
MESA-WAVES Ar V
wiM l/Studen
CHARITY SURF-OFF 
TO >E NEFlT BORNED 
&UT SURFER. BCV5.By Craig Schlechter
tip AH^ Theart nVa rnoTlrTu
1( Cwjj^ 15 H?\
m 82,Is5Ctgihnu 
86 y5 MyP 80w FftTtf ER5) <A FRIENP of MINE. /
86c HERE 5 A 
FAMILIAR FACE g 
HE Y DUDE, HOW 
ARE THE WAVES?
NilCE ^ 
1 AM] WHERES
IMEStuden(HI, ('8 H"8fP 1Te W>1MUST >H 0RICKFACE AN* 
^-7/. STUCCO/ '
peRcePrive K1D; flld'T H5
By W illiam Barnes & Matthew Diamond
I TM006KT Ue
DltfT GrWJ. K\^ 
R Slb !
H OLI>GeD BAM 
^) MlSTAKS ! X <&SS 
HS GOT* OS CNFS^D 
UM TH SOMDNL i
SPIFF r>it> 
WH*T ?!?
Sad uot \ WOVUb HA\ \ \
H*S OfO 7H 
FOCTSfiU. T6&M, 1 
H'S 0*0 THSWM AND HE'S A soe ST aore 
(vie. vmestT^!H&'S GR*T !! /
)iS0 !^A YOU UY5 COHE' 
UP WITH SOME PRSm \ CO/VCRETZ FVIP5NCE, 
\HAHAMhfiHfiHA!!}
fcOWa. THIS IS ftavr BU66^.
you. MERK) Ht PlSI>&> 1H WCOMFftTfcRNvnj ftM [con ftccmV tiuetd 
pa pg33 [ue 5P5 n
!M0H 2yUFfB 6' ,6&yH^)
* SCHMUCK or wh/*Tp
< lAitU...Mft'dBE-. 
ON >fV^
'A)F,3 o)VF !MF \ 
K)D A ea1O2Oae0P H "~\G^o^5 on you
v-N',n FftCT^., /i/B
HE COLi> POSH 
HULLS ONfc, TVJ, y
MoTU inea 1 X
/es[ lnuW,CANCER

---------------------------------------------------

TrteV DON'Tseueve iw
V ONlot y
yes. i AMteuAreyoUR TAKIM& Ca rG CASe!
'...LUCK
DO0&CGSJHteVtNG-..
CHUMP!
WHO WOOLP HAVE ThoObHT.
You nm8 20E0> 8S VT3 !MS -(3mKS AT ae*r$ /With no #oop/
ToPteSS 
'sowm
RETURNTHIS
DUCK
DON'
TM
8AW 
TUB, STOlc,
tMefie
SHOULDi Ateer
yoo?
jWfmmtmmmmmmmmmmmmmmrnamm
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
collegiate crossword
mny6HH
tasfe
fHou) WtRO IS nHis BATHUSTHey ALSO 64 
TRAILERS ADO
the seAury ANOSCAPe 
McNf- fd rtcwKefL i
Ben eve(Jdeu, 0)140 PoesWCXOADAVSf .TUBCOLT,
By John Tafe
" oops
Answers in next issue
By Danny Fahs
1 Roller-coaster ride 
sound 
7 Fundamentals 
13 Feeling of failure
15 Pickering or Hogan
16 Resort or car
17 Straighten again
18 Wrong
19 ---- in one's side
21 Lao----
22 State ---
23 Well-known club
24 Public disturbance
25 Before
26 "Stompin' at the
27 Bartletts
28 Was ambitious
30 Gives out cards
31 Breakfast dish
32 Henry, John, or 
Glenn
33 Treeless plain 
35 Revives^ (2 wds.)
38 Roger or Dudley
39 Openings
40 World War II agency
itants 
15 Chum 
20 Juvenile delinquent
23 "Key ----"
24 Studies
26 Actress --- Hasso
27 Fathers, in France
29 Arctic explorer
30 Like St. Peter's
32 Wooded areas
33 Flowering plant
34 Pillagers
35 Irish city
36 Severe pain
37 Pain relievers
38 Valuable French 
paintings
39 Ancient Britishers 
41 Most competent
43 Bank Inventory
46 Mother of Clytemnestra
47 French resort
48 Touch on
50----jongg
52 Buttons or Barber
44 Tease
45 Part of NNP
46 Wrestling holds
47 Pertaining to birth 
49 Hydrogen, for one 
51 Testimonial
53 Vehement speeches
54 Obtains
.55 Proceed in a 
gliding manner 
56 Hate
r6cf
1 Predicament or ' 
fight2 Imaginary monster
3 Gorges4 Sponsorship (var.)
5 Greek Mars
6 "Bei --- Bist Du
Schoen"
7 Dutch Africans
8 Astronaut Shepard
9 Spanish for sun
10 First
11 Bleeps

---------------------------------------------------

ORACLGT
The worlds tastest growing software company and 
largest vendor ot database management software 
and services
dmp -CId
Oracle Corporations revenues 
have more than doubled in 
nine of our ten fiscal years (the 
other year we grew 91%). This 
unprecedented growth is the 
direct result of the focused 
efforts of our unparalleled, 
company-wide team of super
achievers.
d\p -UpIpod
A1987 Software News survey 
ranks Oracle as the ONLY topfive supplier of software for 
mainframes, minicomputers 
and personal computers. 
ORACLE, our SQL-based, 
relational database manage
ment system, and our family of 
application development tools 
and decision support prod
ucts are emerging as industry 
standards for every class of 
computer.
d\p *EdEUp
If you are accustomed to 
success with an uncommon 
insistence on doing everything 
well, you can become part of 
this growth. We are recruiting 
now to staff our expansion of 
service and product offerings 
around the world. Join Oracles 
team and help us continue our 
record of success.
Larry Lynn 
Oracle Corporation 
20 Davis Drive 
Belmont, California 94002 
415 7598/8183 or 8124
We are recruiting for positions in Marketing, 
Consulting, Development, Finance, International 
and other areas within Oracle. If you are interested 
in opportunities at Oracle, please call or write:
#

---------------------------------------------------

D8The TartanSeptember 29,1987
This Week in DH2210
rsday, October I
Metropolis
is 1926 silent fantasy film tells of a mechanized city and contains a projection of 
ristic society. Set 100 years into the future, it symbolically depicts the dehumanizing 
strialization and subsequent class distinctions in then, present day Germany, 
lile the city's well-to-do class lives in lavish, monumental skyscrapers, the workers 
essly slave away far beneath the great metropolis driving the great machines which 
) the world above running, 
ctor: Fritz Lang
s: Brigitte Helm, Alfred Abel, Gustav Froehlich 
.vtimes: 6, 8, 10
ay, October 2
The Golden Child
e fate of an ancient tribe, and quite possibly of the entire world (What else?!), hangs 
e (im)balance! Eddie Murphy stars in this mystical adventure/comedy as an expert 
ing child locater. He consents to find the tribes kidnapped sacred child. Murphy gets 
; than he bargains for, though, when he becomes an unwilling pawn in a dangerous 
e of magic, mystery, and fantasy.
hough the fantasy aspect of this film is larger than life and wonderfully imaginative, 
novie lacks the strength of solid performances to keep a viewers complete interest, 
ctor: Michael Ritchie 
Eddie Murphy, Charlotte Lewis, Charles Dance 
vtimes: 6, 8, 10, 12
lay, October 4
Yellow Submarine
is dazzling animated feature film, in which the Beatles use music to conquer the Blue 
niesinvaders of Pepperland, translates the famous song into a thrilling, enjoyable
il adventure.
signed by German animator Heinz Edelman and co-written by Erich Segal, this film, 
a witty script and innovative, colorful graphics, is a genuine treat, 
ctor: George Dunning
Magical Mystery Tour
Beatlesstar in this hilarious, surreal film featuring songs from their hit album, 
ctor: Dennis ODell
vtimes: 6, 8:30, 11 ,..
tANEN K. CHAKRABORTY
Piantings. Prints, and more...Five Women Gallery Show
By EDIE LOCKE
Special to Diversions
Tonight marks the opening of a five woman, 
junior show at the Forbes Gallery, featuring 
the work of Nicole Herz, Jennifer Bauman, 
Erin Elman, Jennifer Nelson and Mary Beschen.
Nicole Herz will be showing paintings about 
houses, walls and fences. Previously, the 
architecture depicted in her work was dilapi
dated and destroyed but now Nicole is concenAt Forbes Gallery 
This Week...
trating on the original form, explaining it as an 
attraction to the texture of bricks and the struc
ture and forms of buildings. Specifically, she 
enjoys their angles and overlapping edges and 
finds Pittsburghs architecture especially suit
able. Her ideas concern nature taking over 
man-made structurea juxtaposition of the 
organic and the artificial. Walls and fences are 
an interesting idea, to Nicole who considers 
them to be middle barriers which have the 
power to conceal and hide. While interested in 
the psychological content of her work, Nicole 
is reluctant to analyze, remarking that often,
I just cant figure myself out. Nicole is 
influenced by the work of Van Gogh, Edward 
Hopper and German Expressionists such as 
Kirchner. For the future she will be studying 
wooden and clapboard structures for a variety 
of texture and will work on expanding her use 
of color.
Jennifer Bauman will be showing large 
acrylic paintings on paper. The work is about 
common objects which suddenly become
unique because of placement or the way the 
light falls. Using Matisse as a guide, Bauman 
seeks to get her colors working in relationship 
to one another and to explore how color influ
ences our everyday lives.
Erin Elman will be showing prints and new 
paintings where she uses bright color for the 
first time. While she calls it a lot of fun, Erin 
finds it difficult to control and considers these 
pieces to be transitional. Elmans prints and 
paintings work together, both containing land
scape references and both being about the 
texture of the medium, its form and its color. 
As shape is such an important part of her work, 
Elman studies the sculptures of Braque, 
Noguchi, Tapies and Eskimo work, using the 
influence of those forms and shapes in her 
paintings. Erin is concerned with the process 
and the actual act of paintingnot with what 
the image looks like. She wants to show 
movement in her work and also the mistakes. 
In conclusion, Erin says, Art is fun. 
Jennifer Nelson and Mary Beschen were 
unavailable for comment.
Diversions Welcomes 
the Benedum Center 
to Pittsburgh.
Look to Diversions for Coverage of all the 
upcoming events at the city's newest cul
tural showcase
SENIOR PORTRAIT SIGN-UPS NOW
at the Skibo Information Desk
Sittings begin on September 28 and will continue through October 16. 
Contrary to the letter sent to seniors, the portraits will be taken in Skibo Rm 45. 
See the sign-up sheet for available times. 
If you have any questions call the Thistle Yearbook office @ x2121
Dont wait too long, or you might be left out!

---------------------------------------------------

September 29,1987The TartanPage D9
Diversions 
Staff 
Meeting
Tonight3 8:00 pm 
Tartan Office, Ski to Rm 50 
All interested writers are 
invited.
Pgh. Symphony Ends on
continued from page D1
and she seemed inexhaustible as she filled the 
stage with vitality. She had a theatrical stage 
presence and her facial expressions varied 
with the mood of the music. Her highly emo
tional interpretation brought tears to the eyes 
of some members of the audience as they stood 
to give her a much deserved standing ovation 
at the end of her performance.
Brahms Symphony No. 1 in C Minor 
brought the concert to a close. This symphony 
was comprised of four movements which were 
indicative of Brahms subtle and soothing 
style of music undermined by his own insecu
rity and self-doubt. The first movement, Un 
poco sostenuto: Allegro, shifted between 
themes,of dreary pathos to frustrated anger. 
The Andante movement was highlighted by 
the purity and clarity of the woodwind solos 
and its tranquility as opposed to the first 
movement. Un poco allegretto e grazioso, the 
third movement, was a continuation of the An
dante in the respect that it began with wood
wind solos.
However, the woodwind solos eventually 
gave way to a harsh brass melody and the 
movement continued to alternate between the 
two until it ended in a cheerful melody in the 
woodwind and strings. The last movement,
a High Note
Adagio - Allegro non troppo ma con brio, 
brought together the varied themes in Brahms 
work. It presented moods of anger, depression 
and happiness but eventually ended in exulta
tion as the accelerando of the vibrant melody 
seemed to indicate that goodness will over
come all.
Brahms Symphony was a perfect piece to 
showcase the talents of the Pittsburgh Sym
phony. The woodwinds were particularly 
strong and the contrasting dynamics and tem
pos gave the symphony and conductor, 
Zdenek Macal, the opportunity to end the 
evening brilliantly.
[ ) STUDIO THEATRE ( 1
k ' -..............-.............. V A
This Week
The. Sept. 29 at 8:30 p.m. 
DEBS: AN AMERICAN DREAMER 
by Ron Nash 
Directed by Lee Sankowich
Coming Boon
Oct. 5 and 6
THE EFFECT OF GAMMA RAYS ON MAN IN THE MOON MARIGOLDS
Free Admission
For more information call: 268-2407
STUDIO THEATRE THIS WEEK is brought to you by the Department of Drama
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center 268- 2922 
After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator wiil help you reach the staff 
member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh................................................................... 782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive listening
Drug Connection.......................................................................... 854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 5 - 9 pm
Tel-Aid........................................................................................... 281-4664
A Series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safety issues. 
Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs
v / * ; : * / _  ******* 11  I . ;./ . . '.I ( I
x VPz '-.S/
 'I
i-a-.r:*.' j *"-  V/ 1
oris
4  0 0OO P ; 4 0 \ 0( ! (3( 0 0 c ; P 03 OPO mP D  GP G)0 !  sE lJV'"3  ! {, f \
. .............. ........I . * '  ! .. , i *,. *. / \ j' >  \g p r. E P1P nGP 1;4  4eP;P eP ;P 1OP P x zIP G~z ~ l ' 
0 0 0Pn; ; i , 0U0PJP ); 0G'0 GP gP\n UG) '! V J'  f : ! .. ... i. x. x  / -r
j i-"":  1 ' V \ Jw oi;;-. \.' V.. ' J~. v--............- \ '
. ;  , . .  . I .. '  i I.:..., II.. 00P0Pn00PPGPP GPPl'3
'P000UP(GJ0 gAe! 4P'g*lo ; 0P' 'gK&GP ; {
. ... . 5 ^v   ...............\  iv  li. . I v. ' I u u. I I . I ii  u
0x; G 30GP'U0 ; ;P ; 4 ; ;P 0 G ( 03 'PGgP\ e0P'00 g0e0
v,i ii i\. > :  ! * . ' i*.*v at i y v * ) : j v >. 0 u i.\
;.4; \ 4 ( \ ^dossier 87ISS 0p eECSAkg1 gEC kKUKTRKp U0.SAg.eAS
P PP iATR gE1 p.eCSE. SEATUUSC g. ngAESL0S 8SUUTEP
<f, .I  . % ;. t .*
P !T pesR0. kTAh (BASiSAgsU1 TE g RgK0E.Tp C0ph)4; ; v c v/;;:. I:;:!
GGz!!\#k !<T1 AATURS.P  pSEC .U0ATeL KgRBep Rg0U .T
' '  z J ; PP P dossierUg1SA AP0-P0 !6G)h PpTxGpKGlJ0e'P. DG K)T!S!gA.gE
OW7 Hh0sT
44 4 ; ; ( K3 ' z H00.0 ;60 '6k  CATB Tii g.
P  P P PPPP  'AS!0eA.gE Tii0KSP
; 4>; l Hh0sT ATTR wW
;;GPznG .agA 4 4 4 G0S 4>P;0 0 ( 0l
3 PPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPP# KTE.gK.0 04K ( 4 P zPOP;PP^P Pl 80KSUS 6pSATk
; ;PPPPPPPP  PP 3P 4 4PPP P  l.G3lGPlU0gp NO NW7w, ,;a .. V. u\ .. vV/.j.x......... *.
wore i.1 v.*i;n o;:jj>!oyco:; -om
The Best Place 
In Town For A 
Wing Out! - :
Mike Kalina-Pgh. Press
Over a Dozen Sauces From Mild-Mild to Death Sauce!!
Open 3:30 p.m. T-H till 10:30 
F-S till 11:30 
Open Sundays  till 8:30.
CALL:
421-WING
Our Ribs?
Best in the City
Mariams Coast to-Coaat Dining Guid
MURRAY 
AVENUE 
(SQ. HILL) K\:jf
Ribs  Chicken  Barbecue Specialties^'/RIB HOUSE
#

---------------------------------------------------

Page DIOThe TartanSeptember 29,1987
nUgpp0i0SCp
Magic Mtn. Pkwy., Suite #306, Valencia, 
91355.
CAFor Sale
Jobs/Wanted
Help wanted - responsible waitress at Sichuan 
House. Stop in as soon as possible - DONT CALL.
Telephone Sales: Part time position 6-9:30 p.m. 
Call from our Shadyside office for non-profit or
ganization. 6-10 positions. 363-4953 - afternoons.
Astro Pizza wants drivers with cars immediately! 
Hourly wage and Commission. Call 362-9800 or 
682-2772.
Waitress, experience preferred. Weekends. In
quire in person at Murray St. Cafe, 1720 Murray 
Ave.
Earn $hundreds weekly$ in your spare time. 
United Services of America is looking for home
workers to perform mail services. Incentive pro
grams available. For information send large self 
addressed stamped envelope to U.S.A., 24307
Housing
CRUISE SHIPS
NOW HIRING. M/F
Summer & Career Opportunities 
(Will Train). Excellent pay plus 
world travel. Hawaii, Bahamas, 
Caribbean, etc. CALL NOW: 206-736-0775 Ext. 536 H
House for sale: Oakland, newer 2 story brick, 3 
bedrooms, integral garage. Quiet street, move-in 
condition. Minutes from university. 681-6604.
Free Rent and Growing Equity. 3 unit house 
Shadyside, near Walnut. Separate utilities. Occu
pancy permit. Walk to Pitt or CMU. $79,900 sale by 
owner. 621-0814 day, 767-9942 eve.
2 BR Apartment for rent: Shadyside, $415 + 
electric. Very spacious LR, DR, laundry, parking, 
just painted. 362-3595 evenings.
Five minutes from Pitt and CMU. Two bedroom 
furnished & just remodeled apartment. $380 plus 
utilities, parking available $20/month. Call 655- 
1872.
Shadyside  Large two bedroom apartment. 
Convenient to CMU campus, $375 (includes heat) 
+ electric. Available immediately. 422-0262.
FLOWERS FOR SALE...Craig and Bayard Sts. 
Rose bouquet $3.95, mixed bouquet $3.25. 
ALEXS FLOWERS 687-4128. Delivery 687- 
4128.
===== Misc ----------=
Parties...Parties...Parties
We have everything for your party at Papermart - 
One stop party shopping. Halloween, X-mas, New 
Years, and much more. Over 10,000 square feet of 
party. Party favors, decorations, and a wide variety 
of novelties. Close to campus - Morewood Avenue 
at Baum. 681-8900.
RESEARCH PAPERS. 15,278 Available! Cata
log $2.00. Research, 11322 Idaho, #206XT, Los 
Angeles 90025. Toll Free (800)351-0222, Ext. 33. 
Visa/MC or COD.
Performers Collective Singers, M/F dancers, 
comedians, jugglers, clowns, mimes, magicians, 
puppeteers, storytellers, ventriloquists. The best in 
affordable entertainment. 731-8877.
Drive a Car Anywhere Free. Pay gas only. A-l 
Auto Movers. 828-4813. t
WORLD SPIRITUALITIES
Pittsburghs alternative bookstore invites you to 
browse our fine collection of Eastern & Western 
Spirituality, as well as Christian Theology, Scrip
ture, and Liturgy. Also, we carry New Age Books 
and Music. New Service unique to Pittsburgh  
RENT-A-BESTSELLER! Progressive Jazz and 
Space Music tapes and CDs. Saint Elmos Books 
and Music. 2214 E. Carson St., Southside. Opentijr
9 nightly. 431-9100.
Services
Cleaning Service: Experienced, reliable person 
will clean your apartment, home, dorm, office. Own 
equipment. Excellent references. 422-3702 (24 
hours).
Typing/Writing Services - Term papers, disserta
tions, thesis, resumes. Spelling & grammar in
cluded. Lillian Mudgett - North Hills - 486-8577.
Piano Lessons being offered in Shadyside area by 
graduate piano student at CMU. Call 683-7208.
Used Book Sale 
Pitt Union Ballroom
Yesterday and TODAY ONLY 9-7 PM
Scholarly Books
and
Practical, Entertaining Books
new stock in excess of 1500 
volumes since Sept. 1
The Sisters of Delta Gamma
Welcome Their Fourteen
Wonderful New PLEDGES!
Jennifer ArscottMelissa Kelly
Sharon BalintJess Reeves
Jody BurigJeanne Richard
Cindy CountourisMarya Spring
Lynne DomeckKelly Stark
Wendy HasbrouckLaura Stem
Kim JanusLydecke Sweet
v Free Movie Passes 
Rob Reiner (Stand By Me) presents The Princess Bride
Wednesday3 Sept 30,1987
7:30 pm  Cinemette East3 Monroeville
Robert Mandel (FIX) presents Big Shots
Thursday3 Oct. 1,1987
7:30 pm  Showcase East, Monroevillie
You can pick up a ticket, good for two, at the Tartan Office, Skibo
Room 50 Tickets compliments of Pittsburgh Film Promotions
TO
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING 
Sun.- Thurs. 7-10 P.M.
CALCULUS
PHYSICS
CHEMISTRY
ECONOMICS
ACADEMIC WRITING
INTRO. TO COMPUTING
PH 107-A 
PH 107-B 
PH 225-B 
PH 126-B 
PH 126-C 
WeH5409
Sponsored by Counseling & Student Development Center and Student Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

September 29,1987The TartanPage
mEETeEKSRSE.p
Richard M. Cyert will have open office hours 
for students between 2:30 pm and 5 pm, in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Wednesday, Octo
ber 7. Students who wish to meet with the 
president should telephone his secretary at 
268-2200 to set up an appointment. 
Constructions With Light, exhibited by Jane
0 Haskell. Through October 4. Pittsburgh 
x Center for the Arts, Fifth and Shady Avenues.
Gallery Hours are 10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday 
through Saturday; 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday. 
Graphite: Homage to the Pencil. Through 
October 12. Pittsburgh Center for the Arts, 
6300 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Gallery Hours 
are 10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday through Saturday;
1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
Drawn to the Surface: Artists in Clay and 
Glass. Through October 11. Pittsburgh Cen
ter for the Arts, 6300 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. 
Gallery Hours are 10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday 
through Saturday; 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
On the Line: The New Color Photojourna
lism. An exhibition of color photographs 
organized by the Walker Art Center in Min
neapolis. Through November 8. Carnegie 
Mellon Art Gallery, 407 South Craig Street. 
Gallery Hours are 10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday 
through Friday; 11 am - 5 pm, Saturday; 1 pm
- 4 pm, Sunday.
Drawings from the Eighties. As part of the 
citywide Chatsworth Collaboration of draw
ing exhibitions, the Carnegie Mellon Art Gal
lery features contemporary works on paper. 
Through November 8. Gallery Hours are 10 
( am - 5 pm, Tuesday through Friday; 11 am - 5 
pm, Saturday; 1 pm - 4 pm, Sunday.
Six Artists: Two and Three Dimensions. 
An exhibition on the interrelationships of the 
drawings and three-dimensional work of 
Mary Bero, Dale Chihuly, Anne Currier, 
Christine Federighi, Peter Gourfain and Mark 
Kobasz. Through November 8. The Society 
for the Art in Crafts; 21st and Smallman
1 Streets, the Strip District. Gallery Hours are:
10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday through Saturday; 1 pm
- 4 pm, Sunday.
Drawings by Old Masters, 16th through 
18th Centuries. Through October 25. Hewl
ett Gallery, College of Fine Arts, 1st floor. 
Gallery hours are: 11 am - 4 pm, Tuesday 
through Saturday and 1 pm - 4 pm, Sunday. 
Roman Catholic Oratory. Celebrate mass 
, on campus at 7 pm, Saturday night and 10:30 
am, Sunday morning, in the GSIA Audito
rium. Daily Mass is celebrated at 12:30 pm, 
Monday through Friday, in CMs Chapel 
(Skibo Rm. 39). For more information call 
681-3181.
Is There Anyone Else Like Me On Campus?
If you are dealing with attractions toward 
members of the same sex, the answer is yes. 
I Join sympathetic peers for informal discus
sions of issues that are important to you. For 
details, contact the CMU Gay and Lesbian 
Alliance via campus mail c/o Skibo Informa
tion Desk or via computer mail to ga0y@tb. 
All responses are confidential.
Buhl Science Center.
Laserium. 8 pm and 9:15 pm, Thursday 
through Sunday; and 3 pm, Saturday. For 
 current concerts call 321-5554.
41 st Annual Tropical Fish Show. Spon
sored by the Greater Pittsburgh Aquarium 
Society. Through October 4.
Murder in the Planetarium. Friday, Octo
ber 30. Call 321-4302 for information.
Sounds Sensational. Permanent exhibit at 
1 pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and
^ 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
The Right Moves. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 
1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
Batter Up. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Monday through Thursday; I pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm
- 5 pm, Sunday.
Color. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, 
Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, 
Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm - 5 
pm, Sunday.
Bio Corner. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm
- 5 pm, Sunday.
Image Imagination. Permanent exhibit at 
1 pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 
1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
Foucault Pendulum. Permanent exhibit at 
1 pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and
1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
Observatory. Friday evenings, weather 
permitting.
^ QTuesday
Movies
LAnnee Des Meduses, starring Valerie 
Kaprisky. Kaprisky talks and seduces her way 
across the beach in the south of France in this 
film about people talking about life. Pitts
burgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Play it Again, Sam. Funny adaptation of 
Allens Broadway piay about a man coached 
by Bogart to meet women. Pittsburgh Play
house at 7 pm and 9 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Dept, of Chemical Engineering Seminar.
Klavs F. Jensen, University of Minnesota, 
speaks on Organometallic Chemical Vapor 
Deposition of Compound Semiconductors at
11 am in DH 1112. Coffee and pastries are 
served at 10:45 am in DH 1102.
MEMS Staff Seminar. Professor Diran 
Apelian, Drexel University, speaks on Spray 
Deposition at 3 pm in WeH 7500. Informal 
discussions and refreshments follow in WeH 
2325.
Dept, of Architecture Lecture. Michael 
Dennis, Architect, Boston, speaks at 8:30 pm 
in WeH 7500.
Special Events
French Table. The Modem Languages Dept, 
sponsors a French Language table at 11:30 am 
in the Morewood dining hall.
^AWednesday
vf Movies
The Bridge on the River Kwai, starring Alec 
Guinness, William Holden and Jack Hawkins. 
Devid Leans WWII drama about a bridge that 
must be destroyed. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Play it Again, Sam. Funny adaptation of 
Allens Broadway play about a man coached 
by Bogart to meet women. Pittsburgh Play
house at 7 pm and 9 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Dept, of Architecture Seminar. Michael 
Dennis, Dennis, Clark & Associates, Boston, 
speaks at noon in CFA 206.
Special Events
Spanish Table. The Modem Language Dept, 
sponsors a Spanish Language table at 11:30 
am in the Morewood dining hall. 
Educational Action on Latin America 
group meeting. Skibo Rm. 112 at 7:30 pm. 
This weeks meeting will concern humanitar
ian aid to Nicaragua. All are welcome. For 
more information call Peter at x7651.
Secret: Team Behind the Iran-Contra
Gate. Pittsburgh cable, Channel 21 at 4 pm -
10 pm. Daniel Sheehan, chief counsel in the 
Cristic Institute suit against Richard Secord, 
Hakim, Singlaub and other ex-CIA and mili
tary officials, present evidence of a 25 year 
Drugs for Guns operation throughout the 
Third World. The Cristic Institute is an InterFaithlaw and Policy Center which won the 
case for the Silkwood family against Kerr Md 
Gee.
"1 Thursday
-M*. Movies
Little Shop of Horrors, starring Ellen Green, 
Rick Moranis, Steve Martin and Bill Murray. 
Entertaining film version of the hit Off Broad
way musical about a young man and his maneating plant. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm 
and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Metropolis, sponsored by AB Films. DH 
2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm and 10 pm. Admission $1. 
The Life and Times of Harvey Milk and a 
film documenting the 1979 Gay Rights March 
on Washington, sponsored by GALA. Adam
son Wing at 7 pm. Admission is free.
Special Events
German Table. The Modem Languages 
Dept, sponsors a German Language Table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall. 
Carnegie Care Unit Meeting. Dr. Jack 
Meyers, University Professor of Medicine, 
University of Pittsburgh, conducts a mock 
Medical School Interview. 8 pm in SH Rm 
301.
Champagne Flight to the Dog Races, CM
Student Reading Series. Todd Sanders and 
Marshall Klimasewiski are reading original 
works of poetry and Tom McConnell is read
ing an original piece of fiction. Forbes Gallery 
at 7 pm. ^
'I Friday
Jkd Mov
^Sunday
Movies
The Sound of Music, starring Julie Ar 
and Christopher Plummer. Wonderful 
cal story of the Von Trapp singers, an Ai 
family that defied the Nazis. 5 Oscars, 
burgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm. Adn 
$2.95.
Yellow Submarine Magical Mystery
sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at 
8:30 pm and 11 pm. Admission $1.
5Monday
Movies
Movies
9 1/2 Weeks, starring Kim Basinger and 
Mickey Rourke. An erotic film about a man 
who attempts to exert his mastery over a 
woman. Some steamy scenes.. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
The Golden Child, sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. 
Admission $1.
Lectures
Academic Computing Seminar. David 
Miller speaks on Great American History 
Machine at 3:30 pm in Hamburg Hall Audi
torium.
^Saturday
^7 Movies
After Hours, starring Griffin Dunne, Ro
sanna Arquette and Teri Garr. Wild and 
wonderful comedy about being single in NYC. 
Hilarious, manic movie. Winner of the Can
nes Film Festival Award for Best Director. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 
11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Sports
Football. Away game against John Carroll, 2 
pm.
The Color Purple, starring Whoopi 
berg, Margaret Avery, Oprah Winfrt 
Danny Glover. Film adaptation of 
Walker's novel about the tragedie 
triumphs of a poor black woman in Ge 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm. Adn 
$2.95.
Workshops
Interviewing Skills Panel. Get the emj
perspective of the interviewing proce 
special panel of recruiters are on cam 
share their insights. 7 pm in the Skib< 
room.
Special Events
Japanese Table. The Modem Lai 
Dept, sponsors a Japanese Language T 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall
Submissions
If you wish to place an announcement, m, 
neous item, or event in The Tartan, send i 
Campus Calendar / University Relations / 
Carnegie Mellon University / Pittsburgh, I 
15213. Send it by campus mail to the abo\ 
address or drop it off at 5017 Forbes Ave i
house betw een A Y and A Ti2)
Please include the following information 
submitting events: Title of event, sponsor, 
description, location, date, and time. In ai 
include the name and phone number of the 
person submitting the entry; this informati 
be used only to confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the acci 
or validity of any Event listing. In additioi 
reserves the right to edit or omit any listin 
publication.
All events are free of charge and open to 
general CMU student population unless 
othem'ise noted.
Deadline for Calendar submissions is c 
day at 5 pm for the next weekS issue.
Free movie passes!(See previous page.)
A Positive Point About Breast Cancer.
fTk kS KgE pSS 0. sSiTAS 
1Te KgE iSSU 0.P cSE 0.Jp ET 
r0LLSA .gE .S CT. TE .0p
M&0 kSE 0.Jp :W% KeAb
gsUSP c0. .S sSp. KgEKS 
Ti pgG0EL .S sASgp.P
!S .A0Kh 0p Kg.K0EL 0. 
SgAU1P mEC .g.Jp S'gK.U1 
kg. g RgRRTLAgR KgE CTP
m RgRRTLAgR 0p g p0Rb
BUS 'lAg1 .g. p p0RBU1 .S 
sSp. ESkp 1S. iTA CS.SK.0EL 
sASgp. KgEKSAP mEC pgG0EL 
U0GSpP(i 1TeJAS TGSA 7w3 gph 
1TeA CTK.TA gsTe. 
RgRRTLAgB1P
o0GS 1TeApSUi .S KgEKS Ti g U0iS.0RSP u
AMERTS88

---------------------------------------------------

FOR WOMEN ONLY..........................................................10/6 7:00 pm rTEESA TV. yTTR gEC 10/7 7:00 pm
8TASkTTC ySgC0EL yTTR
HOMECOMING... (CMU vs. Hiram College)............................................................10/10 2:00 pm Tech Field
THIRD ANNUAL HOMECOMING SK RACE...............................................................................10/10 8:30 am
HUMAN SEXUALITY..............................................................................................10/12 7:00 pm 8eCLS Lounge
MOVIE ^CHARIOTS OF FIRE...........................................................................10/14 8:00 pm Doherty Hall 2210
LEARN TO RELAX................................................................................................................10/20 5:00 pm Skibo 12
A.I.D.S. AND S.T.D. PROGRAMS..............................................................10/22 and 26 8:00 pm Wherret Room
UNDERSTANDING EATING DISORDERS (Video and Discussion).......... .... 10/26 12:30-1:30 pm Skibo 12
MOVIE - SIXTEEN DAYS OF GLORY..........................................................10/28 8:00 pm Doherty Hall 2210
WEIGHT WATCHERS AT CMU begins.......................................................... .......................T.B. A. for Info. X2075
AEROBIC CLASSES......................................................................................................................M-W-F 7:30 8:15 am
Fri./Sat. 6:30*7:30 pm
*PLEASE CHECK FALL TEAM SPORTS CALENDAR TUes./Thurs. Noon-l:15 pm
FOR OTHER HEALTHY EVENTS. Thistle Gym
NEXT MONTHS THEME - making it safe (sexuality)
Program presented by Alumni Relations, Housing, Division of Student Affairs Calendar Produced by Division of Student Affairs
THE
HUMAN
SIDEPAST 2
MAKING IT WELL
(HEALTH AND FITNESS)OCTOBER
