We Wo
photo by Ruth Matsumura
Tuition could be $11,100
The University committee on Tuition is 
recommending that the undergraduate tuition 
for 1987-88 be increased by 8.3% to $11,100.
The text of the recommendation is on page 
five. On the same page is the rational for a 
High Tuition Strategy as present by Earle 
Swank, Chairman of the 1987-88 Tuition Com
mittee. The University has been following this
plan for the past seven years. Also on page five 
is Bill Elliotts vice-president of admissions, 
analysis of the effect of tuition on undergraduate 
admissions.
Fred Rodgers, vice-president for Business Af
fairs, looks at the impact of Gramm-Rudman 
Act, Sponsored Research Overhead and the 
Capital Campaign on the universitys budget on
page six. Also on that page is a table compar
ing Carnegie Mellons tuition with 27 other 
private colleges.
The increase is not final; it is only a recom
mendation. The final decision is made by Presi
dent Cyert and that will probably not be until 
the end of April.
No divestment edged by
By CAVIN WILLIAMS
Tartan Staffwriter
The views of the 791 students that voted on 
the divestment referendum, taken at the same 
time as the Presidential elections on April 9 and 
10, proved to be evenly distributed between the 
three choices given. These choices were 1) No 
divestment, 2) Partial divestment (divesting from 
companies that do not adhere to the Sullivan 
Principles or a stronger code of conduct) or 
3)Total divestment.
The vote ran as follows, 275 or 38% for No 
divestment, 258 or 32.6% for Partial divest
ment, 222 or 28.1% for Total divestment and 
36 or 4.5% abstained. Although the largest 
Percentage of students voted for No divestment, 
the combined vote for some kind of divestment 
(whether it is Total or Partial) showed a majori
ty of 60.7%.
However, many of the students questioned in 
ari unscientific exit poll felt the referendum 
would have little effect on the policies of 
Carnegie Mellons Board of Trustees concernlng divestment.
The actual percentage outcome of the elec
tion gives a good idea of the students feelings, 
^e most revealing of these percentages is the 
number of students who bothered to vote at all. 
Of the approximately 4450 students (counting 
0nly undergraduates) at Carnegie Mellon, only 
^1 or 17.7% voted. This is an indication of
the disinterest many students have towards ma
jor university issues. Although some of these 
students who did not vote may not have known 
the referendum was being conducted, the pro
bable cause of the low turnout was apathy. Un
fortunately, the Board of Trustees may be less 
likely to consider student opinion, when the ma
jority of the students do not seem to have an 
opinion.
The opinions of students concerning the 
referendum itself showed some varied, but 
overall opinion was that it would have little ef
fect. One student who was opposed to divesting 
felt it was utterly inappropriate that students 
should vote about divestment. Another student 
who voted No was opposed to divesting on dif
ferent grounds. The student felt divestment was 
an isolationist type of thing and was a 
negative way to solve the problem. He felt the 
system would eventually fall without external 
force.
However, of the students who voted, most felt 
the principle of having a referendum was a good 
idea and recommended some sort of divest
ment. One student felt the referendum was 
very important and that it gave the ad
ministration an idea on student opinion. This 
same student felt many Carnegie Mellon 
students were apathetic and should know more 
about what the school is doing. This feeling that 
continued on page 2
By LISA Me AN ANY
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
Its official, we got our M-TV. Next fall 
Carnegie Mellon students will enjoy a free con
cert sponsored by M-TV. Carnegie Mellon won 
the concert by participating in a fund-raising 
drive to fight MS. With a final total of 
S23.664.32, Carnegie Mellon raised more 
money for the cause than any other school.
M-TV will choose the actual performer and 
notify Mouse as soon as the choice is made. 
Faramarz Mouse Shargh led the fund-raising 
efforts on campus. The Theta Xi brothers enor
mous commitment of time, planning and 
organization were largely responsible for the 
success of this project.
The fund-raising drive was supported by pro
ceeds from Greek Sing, the Rock-alike contest, 
several fraternitv/sorority parties and the 
Miracle Mile at Station Square, organized by in
cumbent Student Government President Jim 
Denburg.
Mouse is responsible for finding an ap
propriate setting for the concert. M-TV would 
prefer a location with seating for approximate
ly 10,000 people. Students with Carnegie 
Mellon Ids will get either one or two free tickets 
on a first-come-first-served basis. Remaining 
tickets will be sold at a pre-set price. Proceeds 
of ticket sales will benefit MS.
Watch the Tartan for more details, which will 
be published as they become available. In the 
meantime, we all owe our thanks and con
gratulations to Mouse, Rich Miller, and all the 
other students who donated their time, effort 
and money to fight MS. Dedication and 
Cooperation have helped a great cause and also 
brought a free concert to the students of 
Carnegie Mellon.
photo by Olve Perrsen
s
Uos-w4->sdH0)1ELTh
fiC/2< M13;>  pH
fi4)?fi4)
u4-JcdfiUo
ccp-QC\cdefio
Mcd
fi4)
M
u0)oCD
The Tartan
iolume 80, Number 21 Carnegie Mellon University April 15, 1986
,.see Diversions 
see supplement
Stones make Dirty Work of music 
Comubookie lays it on the line.....

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanApril 15, 1986
CMU renovates 16 lecture halls
By USA KAGEL
Tartan Staffwriter
During the coming summer, Carnegie Mellon 
will complete work started last year on 16 lec
ture halls and begin work on classroom renova
tions as a result of suggestions made by staff 
and students to the Educational Facilities com
mittee by Ted Fenton, head of the University 
Teaching Center, Doug Philp, the University 
Architect, and students.
Completion of the lecture halls will result in 
a cost of $600,000 as of last summer, and an 
additional $300,000 dollars during the com
ing season. The funds are allocated by the 
University as a result of recommendations by 
the Education Facilities Committee headed by 
Jim Hoburg.
Plans to begin renovations originated three 
years ago, according to Fenton, when Dr. Pat 
Crecine, Vice President of Academic Affairs, 
asked recipients of the Ryan Teaching Award 
to form a committee to make recommendations 
about educational facilities. The committee 
wrote a report stating eight suggestions for im
proving educational facilities at CMU. Among 
these goals were the establishment of a stan
ding committee to advise and assist in the plan
ning and design of educational facilities, in
creasing the funds allocated for renovations, in
creasing allocations for library acquisitions,4 in
creasing expenditures of audio-visual equip
ment,4 consolidating and upgrading CFA 
facilities, developing plans to upgrade labs, and 
appointing a classroom czar to keep abreast 
of the state of educational facilities.
Additionally, the committee determined that 
16 lecture halls should have first priority. As 
a result, Fenton and Philp visited every room 
and submitted a report containing their findings 
including estimated costs to the committee head
ed by Hoburg. The committee then submitted 
all of their findings and suggestions to the 
University. All the plans stated in the original
report have been implemented, said Fenton, ex
cept for the classroom czar who will be ap
pointed this summer.
This czar will make weekly checks of every 
classroom and lecture hall in order to maintain 
standards. He/she will have direct access to get
ting any problems solved.
Fenton pointed out improvements in facilities 
already finished as a result of last summers 
work. 225c and 125c have been reoriented 
to horizontal rooms. Previously, the rooms 
were too long and narrow. They have also 
received new lighting, chalkboards, and 
carpeting to create a better learning environ
ment. 231A and B were previously one long, 
narrow lecture hall. The hall has been made into 
two classrooms, given new lighting, desks, and 
chalkboards with carpeting on the way.
This summer every classroom will be equip
ped with an overhead projector. Additionally, 
some rooms will now have slide projectors and 
close circuit television. The University has also 
recently allocated $150,000 for audio-visual 
equipment.
This past January, Fenton and Philp visited 
every registrar controlled classroom in the 
University in order to determine, room-byroom, the renovations necessary for these 
facilities. Their report included over-crowding, 
inadequate lighting, acoustics, poor aesthetics, 
routine maintenance, room orientation, inade
quate audio-visual facilities, and carpeting as 
general problems in classrooms. Following this 
list of problems, Fenton and Philp outlined a 
plan of action for solving them.
Joshua Brodsky, a student senator, saw an ar
ticle in Focus discussing the classroom 
recommendations but felt the report lacked 
some necessary suggestions. As a result, he and 
other students met with Fenton under Senator 
Cindy Taylors Educational Affairs Committee 
on March 7 to make additional 
recommendations.
Sunday thru thursday 7pm10pm
CalculusPH -126A
Pre 1, M, HI
PhysicsPH -126B
ChemistryPH -225B
English as aBH - 135B
second language
EconomicsPH-226B
Intro to ComputingWEH-5415
Financial AccountingPH-226C
Academic Writing ProblemsBH - 2356
Students complaints included poor ventila
tion in Doherty 1112 and 1212. They listed 
the coldness of Wean 7500 during the winter 
as well as the crowding in Doherty 2315. Other 
priorities were the abundance of broken arm 
desks that exist everywhere according to Fen
tons memo to the Facilities Committee concer
ning the meeting.
Finally, students showed concern over the 
general appearance in academic rooms on camContraceptives
pus. They suggested carpeting, nicer furniture 
and artwork to create a more aesthetically, 
pleasing atmosphere. The Committee has in
cluded these concerns among the necessary im
provements for classroom renovations.
Fenton is very impressed by the Universitys 
attention to renovation suggestions. Even in 
a small university, its hard to get things done 
quickly, and this is very impressive.
sold in campus stores now
By DRUE MILLER
Tartan Staffwriter
Contraceptives sold on campus became a 
reality on April 2nd, when students were able 
to purchase condoms for $.25 a piece, as well 
as contraceptive foam and diaphragm gel, in 
Entropy and the Co-op.
Abby Silver was surprised at the quickness 
of the administrations action: I thought this 
would be another of CMUs 3-or-4 year deci
sions. She is quite pleased by the results, ad
ding that the students seemed to indicate a 
need for this.
Silver, a member of Students for Choice, said 
that the idea had been mentioned in SFC 
meetings, originally as a joint venture between 
them and the CMU Association for Life, but no 
one had taken any action on it. She went to Stu
dent Senate, who said they were also discuss
ing it, but hadnt done anything yet.
In March, Silver sent a proposal to Oscar 
Mayer, head of Auxiliary Services, who then 
went before an advisory committee on retail 
stores. The committee was reluctant at first, 
arguing on the grounds that contraceptives 
should be the responsibility of Health Services. 
However, Health Services doesnt handle any * 
monetary transactions, due to the lack of securi
ty. Also, their hours of operation would limit 
sales to between 8:30 AM and 5 PM, whereas 
Entropy and the Co-op are open until 9 or 10 
PM every evening.
Another argument was made that the sales 
clerks would be too embarrassed to sell con
traceptives. Silver pointed out that other items, 
such as pornographic magazines and tampons 
are sold on campus, apparently without embar
rassment. The committee then agreed to Silvers 
proposal.
Divestment Apathy
continued from page 1
students were apathetic was mentioned by a 
number of the students in the poll. The idea 
that the referendum shows student feeling to the 
administration was mentioned by another stu
dent, who voted for Total divestment, and who 
also felt the administration should represent the 
community. Another student who voted for 
Total divestment felt the referendum was good 
because it stimulated students interest and that 
this stimulation may influence the trustees.
Unfortunately, student interest was not 
stimulated enough and as many students in
dicated, the referendum may not have any ef
fect on the trustees. Another problem with the 
referendum was that students were not inform
ed on the issues and did not want to vote on 
an issue they knew little about. A number of 
polled students who did not vote said they did 
not know enough about the issues and some said
they did not care (indicative of the majority of 
CMU students). Even some of the students who 
did vote said they did not know much about the 
issues. One student who voted for Partial divest
ment did not see how our presence in South 
Africa condones or condemns apartheid.
Because there was such a low turnout for the 
referendum, the fears that it would have little 
effect on the Board of Trustees may come true. 
The Board may feel that since student interest 
on the issue is low, they should take no actions 
to follow the opinions of the students who are 
concerned. A majority (60.7%) of the 17.7% 
that voted indicated a desire for some kind of 
divestment of stocks. Possibly this student vote, 
when combined with last weeks Faculty Senate 
vote recommending Partial divestment, will per
suade the Trustees to consider campus opinion 
in deciding what to do with our South African 
investments.9
Precision Haircuts custom designed for the look you want
Designer
Perm
onlv*25.00
complet with 
. /rltten guarantMl
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED 
Great Styles Startat
Precision
Haircut
onlv*13.00
Complete with shompoo 
A btow ityte
Just-A-Cut
only
*8.00
Precision haircut only
No Appointments
NOAPPOINTMENTNECESSARY
W a^wiiH I eUn ivrsvt y
save *2.00 
w!  tho Precision HaircutComplete wHti shampoo A stylingon
r
I 
I 
I 
I
 Otter Expires:
I April 30, 1986
WltM IMIS COUPON (
I 
I 
I 
I
0cjtcm !CMfCCTtTWnS 
. 0GRflrSHPSCTflTiOnSPRECISION HAIRCUT TERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
687-3500

---------------------------------------------------

April 8, 1986The TartanPage 3
Buggy malfunctions mar free-rolls
By NATALIE CAPONE
Tartan Staffwriter
The ten or eleven buggy malfunctions that oc
curred during the free-rolls of April 5, 1986, 
have raised concern about the safety of the 
buggy sweepstakes. According to John Spanos, 
Sweepstakes Safety Chairman, there is usually 
an average of ten or twelve malfunctions per 
month, with March as the serious month for 
problems. However, on one day of practice, 
there were as many malfunctions as in an 
average month.
There has been a lot of speculation as to why 
there was such an increase. Denzil Boss, Beta 
Theta Pi Buggy Chairman, attributes it to this 
years cramped time schedule, a result of the 
delayed free-roll permits, inclement weather, 
and a spring break that was later than usual. 
Director of Student Activities Anne Witchner 
agreed, saying that the weather made students 
hungry to get rolls in and explained that the 
anxiety and emotion made the tempo of the 
day quicker. Theyre hyped up  all they are 
thinking about is buggy. They want to take ad
vantage of the time left.
Mark Wilkins, Co-chairman of the Carnegie 
Involvement Association (CIA) Buggy, sug
gested that because of the time factor and the 
excitement, chairman are bringing buggies up 
to speed too soon, and said that especially in 
the case of new drivers, the buggies should 
begin slowly and gradually build up speed. One 
second-year driver, who asked to remain 
nameless, said that she feels the driver gets 
pressure from the organization to go fast, but 
when youre driving, the decision is yours. 
Youre by yourself in free-rolls. She also said 
that all drivers are told If somethings wrong, 
if youre uncomfortable while rolling or dont 
feel safe, you can always stop.
photo by Olve Peersen
DUs Homed Screamer spills into the bales, putting them out of Sweepstakes for this year.
Wilkins, whose organization had more ac
cidents on April 5 than in his four years of in
volvement with buggy, said that a reasonable 
number of the accidents were due to mechanical 
failure, but that at the same time, a lot of peo
ple arent using common sense. Theyre more 
worried about going fast than driver safety. Its 
obvious if you go out there. The anonymous 
driver disagreed, asserting that none of the 
chairmen she knows would do anything un
safe just to win.
Boss of Beta Theta Pi agreed that there may 
be a slight sacrifice of safety for speed, but 
I wouldnt say the buggies are unsafe, citing 
the fact that there were no serious injuries 
despite the high number of accidents. A lot 
of the accidents were due to human error in one 
way or the other, not design error. He also 
mentioned that because the time for driving the 
course has leveled off at 2:09 minutes, 
everyone is now trying to break it. To go faster 
is more crucial now. Mark Estes, Sigma NuWorld NewsFrom AP wire
US fleet is closer to Libya
If U.S. forces take on Libyatljeyll have to 
deal with Syria as well. The official Syrian Arab 
news agency says Syria will participate with 
Libya in any confrontation with American 
forces, in the event of a U.S. attack on Libya. 
The news agency attributes that statement to an 
authoritative sourcewho says the U.S. is guil
ty of a flagrant and unjustified agression. 
Lebanon is also throwing its support to Libya. 
The prime minister of Lebanon, a country thats 
been torn by civil war for a decade, is criticiz
ing Washington for trying to show off its 
strength against Libya.
A London newspaper says prime minister 
Margaret Thatcher has cleared the way for 
President Reagan to use British bases to launch 
a massive new air attack on Libya. The Mail 
on Sunday says by using a British airfield on 
Cyprus, an attack on Libya by U.S. fighter jets 
would be highly practical.
West Germany says NATO is behind the U.S. 
in its conflict with Libya, and some top Reagan 
administration officials are trying to build more 
support for the american position in Europe.
U.S. Warships continue to cruise about the 
Mediterranean in what the Pentagon calls a 
Holding patternapparently awaiting a deci
sion on whether theres to be an attack against 
Libya.
The chairman of the senate foreign relations 
committee says if the U.S. strikes at Libya, it 
would do so with perponderance of American 
military might. That, says senator Richard 
Lugar, would keep down the risk of U.S. 
casualties. The Indiana Republican says hes 
been invited to Monday meeting at the white 
house to discuss Libya.
Libya, meanwhile, is seeking arab support to 
deter what it calls United States Agression
against Libya. A Libyan TV broadcast, 
monitored in London, reported that Arab 
diplomats in Tripoli were told that their coun
tries should cut diplomatic ties with the U.S., 
stop selling oil to America and withdraw Arab 
money form U.S. banks.
Libya says it has met with officals from War
saw pact nations in reaction to what it sees as 
an imminent U.S. attack.
Libya is doing its best to make the U.S. deci
sion a tough one. Mommar Khadafys govern
ment says troops have been removed from the 
military bases it considers likely to be attacked 
by the U.S. A Libyan spokesman says the sites 
have been turned over to foreign companies.
Libya says it has sent foreign workers into the 
oil fields it considers most likely to come under 
attack.
It isnt immediately clear what the Libyan 
government meant by forcing foreigners into the 
oil fieldssince many of them already live 
there.
The most commonly accepted number of 
Americans living in Libya is about 800. But 
western diplomats say there are thousand of 
western europeans there.
Two western diplomants interviewed by the 
AP Saturday reported no such movements 
either regarding the military bases or the oil 
fields.
Pro-Marcos Rally
An estimated fifteen thousand people stages 
a rally in Manila last Sunday in support of 
ousted president Ferdinand Marcos, shouting 
for him to come back. Marcos supposters in the 
abolished legislature plan to convene a new ses
sion tomorrow in deiinace of a government ban.
Buggy Co-chairman, said that people are look
ing for the edge, and suggested that the high 
number of free-roll accidents was a fluke due 
to the various experimentations that organiza
tions are doing in an attempt to get the edge. 
Theyre desperate at this time.
Assistant Sweepstakes Chairman Gino Cosentino said Last Saturday [April 5] we had some 
quirks, but in the worst accident, where a buggy 
flipped, the driver only got a bump. That made 
us feel pretty good about the safety of buggy. 
There have been some changes as a result 
of the free-roll problems. It is now mandatory 
that drivers wear helmets. Also, sweepstakes 
chairmen met with all of the drivers, emphasiz
ing the importance of pass testing and sug
gesting that drivers walk the course before freerolls not only with their organizations chairman, 
but also with the other drivers from their heat, 
to discuss where each driver will be. Another 
point that the chairmen made was the option 
of re-rolls during the actual sweepstakes races.
If during the race, a driver stops because she 
feels that she was in imminent danger, or 
something was wrong on the course, she is en
titled to a re-roll. Hopefully this option will pre
vent drivers from taking unnecessary risks.
There are also some plans that will take place 
next year. Witchner said that she would like to 
implement a board of alumni who would act as 
advisors to the Sweepstakes Chairmen. These 
alumni, Witchner said, would make it easier 
for the chairmen of sweepstakes to feel more 
comfortable enforcing safety lules. She wants 
sweepstakes to be student run, but I also want 
the students to know there is a resource that 
they can trust and turn to, so that they can know 
if theyre making the correct decision. Wit
chner said that she already has some alumni 
who are interested in helping with the 
committee.
Safety Chairman Spanos would prefer to see 
the alumni act in an initial advisory period, 
leaving sweepstakes up to the students once the 
fall rolls begin. Sweepstakes is intended for 
students. He said that the only problem he has 
had with his job is that he didnt know enough 
right off the bat. Cosentino agreed with 
Spanos: I dont think alumni should have too 
much reign. They should come in with a buggy, 
and demonstrate to the Sweepstakes chairmen 
what to look for in terms of safety in a buggy, 
said the Assistant Sweepstakes Chairman.
Estes of Sigma Nu feels that having an alum
ni advisory board is getting out of hand, thats 
a little bit much. Now were getting into the field 
of buggy secrets, and I dont want to show my 
buggy to random alumni. If we show it to them, 
we may as well show it to everybody.
Beta Theta Pis Boss said Alumni could be 
a helpful thing. There is some problem in the 
continued on page 4
Pope John goes to Synagogue
At a Rome Synagogue Sunday, Pope John forms of prejudice. But during the first-ever 
Paul deplored what he called the hatred and recorded visit by a pope to a synagogue the ponpresecution faced by jews over the centuries tiff did not address the Vaticans refusal to 
and said the church would continue to erase all establish diplomatic ties with Israel.National News
Two FBI die in gun battle
Miami police doing background checks on the 
two robbery suspects involved in Fridays 
shootout are amzed at what theyve found, the 
suspect had no criminal records and seemed 
to be hard-working family men living quiet lives
Cheek Brands
(BOSTON)Opposition to a Federal plan to 
brand more than a million and a half dairy cows 
on the face continues. Boston was the site of 
a protest by about fifty animal lovers, many with 
black Xs painted on their cheeks. They oppose 
the aspect of the U.S. Department of 
Agricultures whole-herd buyout programs that 
requires dairy cows sold for slaughter to be 
branded on the face for identification. The pro
gram is designed to reduce the nationwide 
surplus of milk.
in the suburbs. One was even profiled in a Chris
tian family magazine as a born-again Christian. 
But theyve also been linked to at least six bank 
and armored car robberies. And Friday, they 
killed two FBI agents and wounded five others.
Suicide Hotline
(PHILADELPHIA) In a response to the 
near-epidemic proportions of teen suicide in the 
region and nation, Hahnemann University 
Hospital has created a teen-suicide hotline and 
center. Hospital officials say the hotline at 
Hahnemann University Hospital has so far 
received calls from ten distressed teen-agers and 
four parents of teen-agers in its first five days 
of operation.
The hotline number is 215-977-TEEN.
Vote to Bust MS
By Karen Woodilla
Tartan Staffwriter
MTV will videotape Carnegie Mellons senior 
Jeff Mullers impersonation of Morris Day from 
the band The Time this Friday.
Two weekas ago, Muller garnered first place 
at the Northeast Regional Air Band Competi
tion to benefit the Multiple Sclerosis Society [see The Tartan of April 8J. He performed his renditon of The Bird.
Winners of the seven other regional competions from across the United States will join 
Muller at the MTV studios in New York City.
MTV will air videotapes of the regional win
ners for seven weeks. Viewers will be invited 
to telephone in their votes for the best video on 
a special 1-900 number, to be released soon.
We want Jeff to win very badly, Rich Miller 
a leader fo Carnegie Mellons Student Against 
MS. This video will be shown for the first time 
on April 26 at 2:30 p.m. We want everyone 
to call in and vote!

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanApril 15, 1986
Tickets: 268-8893 or University Relations Office, 5017 Forbes
Parking on public streets may be curtailed
By DRUE MILLER
Tartan Staffwriter
Students who regularly park their cars off 
campus may no longer be able to do so. The 
Pittsburgh Department of Public Works is im
plementing a plan reserving street parking for 
residents.
The program began several years ago when 
Pittsburghers expressed concern over hospital 
expansion (specifically St. Francis and 
Allegheny General) eliminating much-needed 
parking areas. Public Works responded by 
dividing the city into several areas and issuing 
permits to residents in each section. Area J, 
which is closest to Carnegie Mellon, includes
the following areas: Morewood from Castleman 
to Centre, Castleman from Morewood to Amberson, Bayard from Devonshire to Amberson, 
Wallingford from Neville to Morewood, and por
tions of Devonshire and the Canterbury cul-desac. The permits are 3 x 3 decals and are sold 
for $10.00 per year, per vehicle, but are only 
available to residents on that street.
Students are not especially happy about the 
new plan. Eric Borm, a junior in Applied Math 
who lives on campus, received a ticket in March 
for parking on Castleman St. He regularly parks 
in that area, and is concerned as to where he 
can leave his car now without worry of being 
ticketed. Currently, the only on-campus non
permit parking areas are along Margaret Mor
rison and Frew Streets.
Richard Meritzer, Parking Permit Specialist, 
stressed that the city is not selling spaces, 
but rather restricting them for residents. There 
is a one-hour grace period, which allows for 
short-term parking without a permit. After that, 
violators will be fined $25.00 per hour. Meritzer 
explained that the permit procedure is not en
tirely irrevocable; public hearings can be ar
ranged, provided that a petition signed by 25 
registered city voters is given to Public Works, 
along with the promise that all those listed will 
attend the hearing. Students were invited to at
tend two such hearings earlier this year, but
Meritzer claims attendance was poor. Public 
Works has received a petition from Amberson 
Towers residents, and two more petitions are 
currently circulating among residents and 
businesses along Centre Avenue.
Areas being considered for future restrictions 
include Beeler, Amberson, Devon, Warwick, 
and Beelermont. In addition, a windshield 
survey to see if residents qualify is planned for 
early 1987 along Bellefield, Centre, Forbes,  
Neville, and Clyde Streets. Public Works has 
not set a definite date for implementation of the 
program in new areas; however, Meritzer sug
gested that students and employees should 
realize that...its better to find off-street park
ing now [than to risk getting a ticket].
A serious accident would put Sweepstakes in jeopardy
continued from page 3
carryover of command [continuity of 
sweepstakes chairmen] from year to year, and 
alumni would help with this problem.
Cosentino said that the chairmen are also 
looking to revise the sweepstakes rules." 
Before they leave, the chairmen will make their 
suggestions about how to change the rules. 
Because of the way the rules are now written, 
it is sometimes infeasible to enforce them, and 
they therefore leave a lot up to the discretion 
of the safety chairman. Hopefully the rules can 
become more effective.
Boss commented that revamping the rules 
is a good idea, it cant hurt. All buggies comp
ly with the rules as are written. The problem 
is the rules have too many loopholes. Ask any 
buggy chairman, theyve gotten around the rules 
in one way or another. Up until now, I dont 
think the rules needed changed, there wasnt 
as high a risk,4 explaining that he thinks the
higher technology of buggies has brought about 
the need for changing the rules. However, he 
stipulates that changing the rules should 
eliminate loopholes but not restrict creativity. 
I wouldnt like to see buggy become like the 
soapbox derby  set and structured, you never 
see anything new.
Witchner said she feels that there is now 
more attention paid to safety in sweepstakes. 
Were doing a better job because the level of 
consciousness has been raised. The chairmen 
are now letting organizations know that they 
mean business, and that theyre there for the 
organizations benefit and protection, said 
Witchner.
CIAs Wilkins seemed to summarize the need 
for safety: In my opinion, theres been one 
serious accident in Sweepstakes history, and one 
more will mean that Sweepstakes are over 
forever. And I think they should be. I love 
Sweepstakes, and I wouldnt want them to
endthats why I keep the rules. Witchner 
agreed that a serious accident would bring a reevaluation of Sweepstakes. The University
doesnt want the students or itself in a 
dangerous situation. What would be the point 
of continuing? *
Sculptures position censured
By LISA MCANANY
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
A sculpture by senior sculpture major, Jeff 
Duer was removed from the display window of 
Forbes Gallery last Friday afternoon. The 
removal followed complaints from residents liv
ing near the gallery. Some residents were apparendy offended by the appearance of the 
sculpture.
It is not clear which member of the Carnegie 
Mellon administration actually decided to move 
the sculpture out of the window, though the pro
cedure was over seen by Dean Lois Cox, 
Associate Dean of Students, as well as a campus security officer.
Im not mad at the administration folks. 
Duer commented, They just made a rash deci
sion that was wrong and irresponsible. the ar
tist is concerned about the precedent that this 
removal may have set.
The sculpture was not actually removed from 
Forbes Gallery. It was moved from the front * 
window to a less visible spot inside the gallery. 
The artist feels that this ruined the sculpture, 
however, because the piece was an installation, 
that is, it was built inside the gallery for the par
ticular space in which it was originally 
displayed.

---------------------------------------------------

April 15, 1986The TartanPage 5
Tuition Committee recommends 8.3% increase
The University Committee on Tuition has com
pleted its study and recommends that the tui
tion to be charged undergraduate students dur
ing the academic year 1987-1988 be set at 
$11,100. This represents an increas of 8.3% 
over the tuition scheduled for 1986-1987. (That 
tuition represented an increase of 9% over the 
preceding year.)
The factors which most influenced the com
mittee in arriving at its recommendation are the 
following: market response, potential changes 
in the availability of income to support the 
operation of the university, the need for flex
ibility to be able to respond to a changing fiscal 
environment, and a growing sense of the need 
for caution in our pricing strategy'. These are 
discussed in more detail below.
Market Response
The committee agreed that the appropriate use 
of market analysis was tied to its ability to reveal 
those aspects of the university which most at
tracted students of high quality. As of March
1. 1986, Carnegie Mellon showed no dropoff 
in application rate; such a dropoff was 
characteristic of the application rate in some 
competitive institutions. Our continued strength 
in the marketplace is seen as a response to the 
perceived high quality of the institution and its 
programs. As a result, the committee placed 
special emphasis in its deliberations on main
taining the ability to strengthen and enhance the 
'quality of its position.
Changes in Availability of Income
Beginning in the fall of 1986 the university may 
experience significant changes in the availability 
of funds from sources other than tuition which 
in part support the Education and General 
Operating Budget (E&GO).
Chief among these are funds drawn from the 
overhead charged in connection with federally 
sponsored research projects. These may be af
fected in two ways, a general reduction in the 
dollars available for support of research as a 
result of the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act, and 
a reduction in the amount which the government 
will fund as overhead in those projects which 
it does support.
Income from Annual Giving may be affected 
by the Capital Campaign now getting under way.
The committe recognized that the current 
volatility of the investment world could change 
the amount of Endowment Income available for 
operations despite the astute care with which 
the Carnegie Mellon endowment is being 
managed. The market which is exceptionally 
high this year could be exceptionally low two 
years from now.
The university must anticipate an almost cer
tain increase in demand for support of Finan
cial Aid from the E&GO budget to replace 
federal support which has been steadily reduc
ing as a total proportion of the universitys finan
cial aid resources for the past several years.
Need for Flexibility in responding to a 
changing fiscal environment
The committee believes that the tuition recom
mended will provide university management 
with the flexibility to allocate resources, even 
though scarce, so as to insure continuation of 
the initiatives it has so effectively taken especial
ly in the pursuit of strategic advantage, in plant 
restoration and renewal, in salary improvement, 
and in enhancement of the university 
environment.
Moreover the committee is convinced that 
with such flexibility the university will be able 
in its allocation of resources to continue the 
policy, endorsed by successive tuition commit
tees, of providing financial aid sufficient to meet 
the need of each student who is admitted to the 
university on the basis of his or her qualifica
tion to benefit from the remarkable educational 
programs offered by CMU.
Needless to say, the committee is impressed 
by the steady improvement in the overall quality 
of the institution, e.g. its programs, the improve
ment of its physical plant, and in its increased 
ability to attract and retain faculty and staff of 
the highest caliber.
The committee is also convinced that the con
tinued improvement in the quality and attain
ment of the student body is a further reflection 
of the responsible use made of the universitys 
resources. It wishes to enable the pace of that 
momentum to continue.
Some Cautions
The committee is aware that, though the percen
tage of increase (8.3%) is lower than that recom
mended between 1985-1986 and 1986-1987 
(9%), the raw amount ($11,100) is nonetheless 
frightening to contemplate in a period when a 
low rate of inflation has begun to curtail the pur
chasing power and the discretionary expen
ditures of families with college-age children. 
Several members of the committee expressed 
fear that the dollar amount would discourage 
persons with high potential though modest in
come from applying, especially since most 
families do not become aware of the intensive 
financial aid resources available at an institu
tion until after they have mustered the courage 
to make an application. It therefore urges even 
more aggressive dissemination of information 
about the financial aid resources CMU provides.
The committee also examined the impact of 
the planned deployment campus-wide of a per
sonal computer network by the fall of 1987. In 
view of the high tuition, prospective students 
must be made aware that the university will not 
require all entering students to purchase a PC 
but that it will attempt to provide financing for 
those students who undertake the purchase in 
order to acquire the considerable advantage it 
can provide. The committee endorsed again the 
policy recommendation made by the 1985 com
mittee with regard to PCs.
A justification for the high Tuition Strategy
Over the past six or seven years Carnegie 
Mellon has followed a High Tuition Strategy. 
This has essentially meant that the annual rate 
of increase in tuition has significantly exceeded 
the inflation rate.
The driving force behind this strategy has 
een the desire to improve the level of ex
cellence and quality of programs while main
taining financial flexibility that would allow the 
institution to take advantage of strategic oppor
tunities in areas where a significant measure of 
excellence could be achieved. The rationale for 
the High Tuition Strategy is equally valid to
day but is supplemented by the fact that future 
financial exigencies, especially at the federal 
government level, are quite possible.
There is both significant and growing 
gvidence that this strategy has been successful 
in assisting Carnegie Mellon toward the objec
tive of improving the level of quality and ex
cellence throughout the University. Various na
tional and departmental rating mechanisms 
have recognized Carnegie Mellons 
achievements. In addition the quality level of 
the faculty and student body has improved dur
ing this period. The applicant pool and the 
quality level of those applicants has risen 
dramatically in the past few years. Research 
done nationally and at Carnegie Mellon in
dicates that the most important factor in a pro
spective students choice of institution is the 
perceived quality of programs offered by that 
institution. Therefore, recognizing the com
petitive nature of the environment is critical to 
the future well being of the organization.
T he resource requirements that result in the 
achievement of this objective include peoplealaries, support services and facilities. Carnegie 
Mellon has continued to take an aggressive 
posture with regard to faculty salaries based 
upon the belief that program quality is directly 
related to compensation level of faculty. The 
r( 've position of faculty salaries at Carnegie 
Mellon has also risen over the past few years. 
Support services, equipment and facilities are 
niPrtant in that these tools that faculty and 
students rely upon in fulfilling their educational 
and research objectives. Carnegie Mellon has 
lnv< sted heavily in these areas in the past and, 
specialy in the area of facilities, must continue
o (^ so *n the future in order to be able to atEnrollment vs. Tuition
On the first of March, the undergraduate ap
plications on file for fall enrollment at Carnegie
Mellon have been.
FallUndergraduate
19865,486 -
19855,299
19845,434
19834,687
19824,169
The applications for undergraduate admission 
to Carnegie Mellon have increased in spite of 
increases in tuition. As has been shown in 
several national studies, at high-quality, highcost institutions, that demand for admission is 
independent of price and is measured only by 
academic/artistic and student-life quality. The 
academic reality and perception of Carnegie 
Mellon has increased signifcantly in the past 
years and holds promise for continued ex
cellence. As our student-life facilities (recrea
tion and dormitory accomodations) improve, 
Carnegie Mellon can expect an increased de
mand by prospective students.
The items which are important to the con
tinued success of the undergraduate admissions 
efforts are. . .
1. Continued improvement in th< actual and 
perceieved quality of all academic/artistic 
programs provided by the university. 
High-quality students demand high-quality 
college experiences. I would rather explain 
the availability of financial aid resources to 
students than explain away mediocre 
academic/artistic programs.
2. Continued commitment to the proposition 
that prospective students should be admit
ted without regard to whether or not they 
have applied for financial aid.
continued on page 6
tract both qualified faculty and students.
Financial flexability has been important in 
enabling Carnegie Mellon to move into strategic 
academic and research areas where exellence 
was achieved. There are numerous examples 
of this across the institution and include such 
initatives as the Philosophy department, the 
Center for Art and Technology, the personal 
computer network, the emphasis on rhetoric 
within the English department, the complimentarity of Robotics and Civil Engineering, etc. 
Without question, it is essential that Carnegie 
Mellon continue to be in a position financially 
to undertake such strategies in the future.
In addition to the above the future will likely 
present Carnegie Mellon with a number of finan
cial uncertainties. Specificaly these relate to the 
federal governments budgetary reduction 
stategies that will affect, in a serious way, the 
amount of financial aid available to students, 
the amount of funding for research as well as 
the amount of reimbursement allowed for ad
ministrative research overhead. Significant 
reductions in any of these areas will seriously 
affect Carnegie Mellons ability to continue to 
improve the quality of the institution.
In combination with this High Tuition 
Strategy, Carnegie Mellon has adopted the 
position of admitting students without considera
tion for their ability to pay. This puts con
siderable priority on the amount of resources 
allocated to and available for financial aid 
awards to students. A diverse and qualified stu
dent body is critical to the achievement of the 
institutions overall objective of excellence and 
financial aid commitments are the key to ac
complishing this.
In summary, in order for Carnegie Mellon to 
continue on this path toward greater excellence 
and to be in a position to deal succesfully with 
potential uncertainties a tuition increase that ex
ceeds that rate of inflation during 1987-88 is 
necessary. Given that the inflation rate will be 
in the 7-8% range a tuition increase of 10-12% 
will allow Carnegie Mellon to follow the strategy 
outlined above.
Today's Highlight in History: On april 22nd, 1864, Congress authorized the use of the phrase flV GOD WE TRUST' on U.S. coins.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanApril 15, 1986
CMU
Computer Store
Tuition and Fee Data 
For 27 Major Private Colleges
College84-8585-86
Harvard9,80011,340
Brown10,21011,155
M.I.T.10,30011,000
Princeton10,20010,960
Yale9,75010,520
Wesleyan9,71310,513
Cornell9,60010,500
Columbia9,66510,496
Brandis9,59010,435
U. of Penn.9,60010,400
Tufts 9,55610,393
Northwestern9,61510,380
R.P.I.9,39010,300
Boston U.9,11610,220
Oberlin9,44010.162
Bucknell9,1159,865
Johns Hopkins8,8609,680
U. of Rochester8,4789,649
Union College8,8369,573
Lehigh8,7509,550
Washington U.8,6729,272
Lafayette College8,3509,250
Case Western8,0008,650
R.I.S.D.8,1508,220
U. of Notre Dame7,2007,970
Syracuse7,3457,780
George Washington6,9107,600
Average9,0459,846
Carnegie Mellon8,4609,460
CMU % of
Average93.5%96.1%
Thought for Today: There is no man so good, who, were he to submit all his thoughts and actions to the laws, would not deserve hanging 10 times in his life. Michael de Montaigne.
Senate Election Results
President
Jim Denburg 349
Allen Greenburg 235
Peter Lonsky 201
Ed Welsh 42
Write-ins 36
Total 863
SUPA (2 seats)
Peter Cohen 8
Patrick Merchak 2
CFA (4 seats)
Glenn Kornbrek 79
Nadine Flynn 69
Norman Larson 38
Renata Stachura 27
MCS (3 seats)
Toby Ayre 134
Eric Rocher 131
Mike Herron 26
Impact of Gramm-Rudman on CMU
IMPACT OF GRAMM-RUDMAN ACT
The recently passed Gramm-Rudman Act 
provides for a systematic reduction of federal 
budget deficits by the end of fiscal year 1991.
Under this act, federal financial aid sources 
and sponsored research funds could be reduc
ed by 30-50% in fiscal year 1987. The 
Guaranteed Student Loan Program would be 
protected, to some extent, from significant 
reductions.
The Presidents priorities, as evidenced by 
the 1987 Reagan Budget are to retain the Pell 
Program and Sponsored Research programs 
while reducing other types of federal financial 
support.
CMU has a number of options available to res
pond to federal student financial aid reductions. 
Since federally supported research is such a ma
jor revenue source for the institution, any ma
jor policy change in this area could have enor
mous consequences.
Since many uncertainties exist concerning the 
implementation and constitutionality of GrammRudman, its impact is extremely difficult to 
predict at this time.
SPONSORED RESEARCH OVERHEAD 
Sponsored Research Overhead is the second 
largest income source for the E&GO Budget and 
this revenue source is growing rapidly.
A major contingency in this trend is a pro
posed cap on federal research overhead rates 
which could reduce E&GO Inccme by $4 
million/year.
This potential reduction would be so serious 
that any tutition rate adjustment designed to off
set this revenue shortfall would be inadequate. 
Any strategy to handle this problem would in
volve fundamental changes in university 
operations.
CAPITAL CAMPAIGN
The university is initiating a Capital Campaign
to raise $200 million over five years to impro# 
academic quality and programs ($100 million) 
and to improve facilities ($100 million).
The rationale for this effort (institutional ad
vancement) is similar to the rationale for in
creases in undergraduate tuition rates.
The need to transfer significant resources 
from the E&GO Budget to the Capital Budget 
will continue to exist independent from the 
Capital Campaign.
Enrollment J
continued from page 5
3. Continued commitment to meet the full finan- j 
cial need of all students to whom we offer | 
admission.
4. The completion of the Student Center 
project which will dramatically improve the 
social and physical recreation facilities of the 5 
university.
BUY 5 SONY 3.5" DISKS ... GET A FREE 
STORAGE CASE WITH COLLEGE EMBLEM! 
Who invented the 3.5" disk? Sony did. For 
disks that perform to the highest standards, its 
a smart move to go to the source. And were 
smart enough to know you need a place to put 
your disksso when you buy 5 Sony 3.5" 
Micro Floppydisks, well give you a free
storage case with cr^xrv 
your college emblem! X
continued on page 8
After youre done with 
school, you face one of 
the hardest lessons in life:
Without experience, 
its tough to get a job. And 
without a job, its tough to 
get experience.
At The W&ll Street 
Journal, we recognize that expe
rience is something you dont 
start earning until after graduation.
But while youre waiting, we can 
give you a head start by providing 
some of the same competitive 
advantages that experience brings.
For instance, our wide-ranging 
news coverage gives you a clearer 
understanding of the whole complex 
world of business.
Our tightly focused feature re
porting prepares you for your niore 
specific ambitionswhether in 
management, accounting, finance, 
technology, marketing or small 
business.
And our in-depth analysis helps 
you formulate your ideas in a 
sharper and more persuasive way.
Call 800-257-1200,* ext. 899- 
or mail the coupon - and start your 
subscription to The Wall Street 
Journal at student savings of up 
to $44 off the regular subscrip 
tion price.
Thats a pretty generous offer. 
Especially when you consider 
what it actually represents. 
Tuition for the real world.
subscribe,call 800-25H20P ext.899toll-free.
Or mail to: The Wall Street Journal, 200 Burnett Road. 
Chicopee. MA 01021? Send me <>ne yea r < >f The Wall St reel J< urnal for $o.ia sat ing of $44 off the tvgttlar subscription pria
? Send me 15 weeks for $26. 0 Payment enclosed.
? Bill me later.
Nam*.'___ I
(rad Month Ytar- 1
____'
_____ I
School ............Maj< >r I
TheWfrU Street Journal.The daily diary <4 ft Aimricaii dnwn. 74SWJ
Jim DenburgOlve Peersen

---------------------------------------------------

b
Concerts
presents
A Spring Carnival Concert
featuring
EAST COAST OFFERING
Join them for an afternoon
of Free Jazz
Friday, April 18 1:00 pm On the Cut
And, look elsewhere in The Tartan for 
another exciting concert announcement...
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanApril 15, 1986Election Results continued
continued from page 6
H&SS (3 seats)
Leslie Frank 126
Michael Scanlon 125
Peter Lonsky 4
Neil Shippley ' 4
J. Andy Gillespie 4
Tied for 1 seat
GSIA (2 seats)
David Bavis 2
Ben Dave 1
Mike Becker 1
Tied with 1 vote
CIT (5 seats)
Tamal Murkerjee 179
Dave Levy 156
Andrew Robitshek 145
Elise Friedland 142
Gregory Staresinic 120
Darryl Phillips 113
Matthew Noeson 107
Dravco Corp. sets up research fellowship with CMU
Dravo Corporation established a long-term 
research fellowship with Carnegie Mellon 
University. The fellowship, which will be with 
the Universitys Mellon Institute, will fund 
research and development in areas of 
technologies relating principally to automating 
manufacturing processes and the movement, 
handling and positioning of materials and 
components.
In describing the fellowship, Thomas F. 
Faught, Jr., Dravos president and chief ex
ecutive officer, said the initial five-year program 
will begin with an annual grant of $100,000. 
We trust progress will justify increasing the 
grant in future years. While specific areas of 
development will be identified as the program 
progresses, Mr. Faught stated, the Institutes 
initial research will center largely on predictive 
maintenance systems for manufacturing in
dustries.
Dravo Automation Sciences recendy was 
formed to expand the corporations presence 
in the industrial automation markets. The cor
poration has been active in factory automation 
for more than a decade, principally in basic pro
cess industries.
As a result of this background and broader 
projects recently begun, Dravo has become a
leader in the factory automation field and will 
be serving such markets as the automotive and 
power generation industries in addition to the 
process sectors. Dravo Automation Sciences last 
month was awarded a major contract by the 
United States Air Force to develop a factory 
automation system for the manyfacture of com
ponents by aerospace subcontractors.
Mr. Faught acknowledged the cooperation of 
Dr. Angel G. Jordan, provost, Carnegie Mellon 
University, Dr. James C. Williams, dean of College of Engineering and Dr. William M. Kauf
man, vice president for applied research and 
director of the Mellon Institute, in shaping the 
direction of this new fellowship.
We look forward to continuing our mutuali
ty beneficial association with Carnegie Mellon, 
the Dravo executive said, in promoting 
technology transfer between the University and 
the industrial sectors of our society. Most recent
ly, our efforts have focused on the application 
of computer software developments to a relative 
broad range of industry requirements.
Sexual harrassment on campus
Some campus sexual harassment can be at
tributed to a male tendency to misperceive 
female behavior, rather than to power plays aim
ed at holding women down, according to a Kan
sas State U. researcher.
Dr. Frank Saal showed college students two 
totally business-oriented videotapes: one of 
an assistant store manager briefing a new female 
cashier, and one of a female student asking her 
male professor for a deadline extension. After 
viewing the tapes, most of the males said the 
cashier and the student were both trying to be
flirtatious, seductive, promiscuous, attractive 
and sexy.
They also interpreted the behavior of the pro
fessor and the manager as sexually-oriented. 
Females said both situations were complete
ly asexual, and the cashier and student were 
outgoing and friendly.
Males see their social environment in sex
ual terms, Saal concludes. Because of that, 
they ofter misperceive womens actions, which 
might prompt them to ask a woman on a date, 
make an off-color joke, or commit other mild 
forms of sexual harassment.
.Minutes of the Student Senate, April 8, 1986
Meeting called to order 7:05pm.
Present: Ayre, Cohen, Flynn, Frank, Giles, 
Greenberg A, Greenberg M, Hausman, Jagerski, Kornbrek, Lonsky, Mukheijee, Murphy, 
Noesen, Patnaik, Rocher, Sheinfeld, Taylor, 
Whysel. Ex-Officio Members: Dean Cox, Chu. 
Absent: Appelbaum(excused), Bollinger, 
Hynes, Kaplan, Lee A, McDonnell, Salomon, 
Trampel, Welsh, Bram(excused). Ex-Officio 
Members: Lee K, Dean Walter, DeLeon, 
Audience Participation: none.
President: CMU won the MTV concert for rais
ing money for MS.
Chairman: Tuition report is due out Wednes
day. Members of the tuition committee will be 
invited to speak at Senate.
Academic Affairs: SAC reports will be given 
next week at Senate.
Brett is currently working to improve the IM 
dept.
Look out for the Academic Response Program, 
a program that will encourage students to give 
their input on any academic issue - whether it 
be a professor or a department.
How do you feel about adding a plus and minus 
to the current course grading system? 
Campus Affairs:The Senate suggestion board 
in Hunt library has been constructed and is 
waiting for your comments/suggestions.
New Business: Cindy Taylor, a graduating 
senior in CIT, has resigned from Senate after 
having served three years.
One Senator addressed the floor about rumors 
concerning a dry rush. Dean Cox replied that 
the final decision will be made by administra* " * 4 IFC, but it wont be decided without 
student input.
Contraceptives are now being sold at Entropy. 
Karen Lee thanks Mouse, Rich and Leanne for 
their cooperation in the MS campaign.
Meeting Adjourned 8:20pm.
Graduates
Graduates: Put the touch on us today for a great deal on the new 
Toyota car or truck you want. We'll put you behind the wheel and on 
the go in record time, with low rate financing that makes our super 
deals a touch better!
ROHRICH TOYOTA
WEST LIBERTY AVE., SOUTH HILLS344-6012
WE HAVE THE FASTEST 
FINANCING IN TOWN!
Cash Rebate
on all models

---------------------------------------------------

Inb
OS cvKE MOEfcMf
mrmmr
0ATOg[EiX]gra?
Sfmaaay0D=cl
Carnegie-Mellon University 
Camegie-Mellon Action Project (C-MAP)
Telephone: 268-2150
SUMMER JOBS 
C-MAP SUMMER PROGRAM
The Carnegie Mellon Action Project (C-MAP) is interviewing for a staff of 
instructors and teaching assistants to work in its Pre-College Program from 
July 5 to August 9, 1986. Instructors are needed for Chemistry, Calculus, 
Statistics, English and Computer Science. Graduate students preferred, 
however, undergrads proficient in these subjects will be considered. 
Teaching assistants are also needed for each of the above subjects, plus 
PHYSICS. TA applicants for positions in physics or calculus must have 
completed two years of college including Physics I, II and III, and Calculus 
I, II, and III, and with a "B" average or better. For positions in chemistry, a 
chemistry, chemical engineering, or biology major is preferred. Previous 
tutoring or teaching experience is necessary for instructor positions and 
would be helpful for teaching assistant slots. Chances for employment are 
excellent if you are proficient in any two combinations of physics, 
chemistry or calculus. To apply: come to the C-MAP Office, 410
MargaretMorrison Building through April 23, 1986 from 9:06 a.m. to 5:00 
p.m. Bring resumes. Undergrads please supply transcripts.
For additional information call 268-2150
One 1/4 page ad @ $75.00
Charge to: Account #1-36021-8221
Contact: Gloria Hill or Doris Haines, Ext. 2150
ONE OF THE OLDEST WAYS!TO BECOME AN ARMY OFFICER IS STILL ONE OF THE BEST.
The Army Reserve 
Officers Training Corps 
(ROTC) is more than a 
college program. Its a 
tradition.
For 163 years, 
ROTC has been 
training people to 
do a job thats also 
a tradition. The 
job of an Army 
officer.
In 1819, 
Captain Alden 
Partridge, a former 
superintendent at
West Point, started 
what we know today as Army ROTC.
He felt our country needed more citizen sol 
diers. So he established the first private school to 
offer military instruction.
It didnt take long for his idea to spread.
By the turn of the century, 105 colleges 
and universities across the country were offering 
military instruction on their campuses.
Today, with Army ROTC available at over 
1,400 colleges and universities, the program is 
stronger than ever.
See Captain Colvin in MMC B-7 or phone x2205
And last year alone, over 70,000 students 
participated.
Some were interested in the leadership 
and management training. Others enrolled on 
full'tuition scholarships. And the financial 
assistance up to $1,000 a year during the last 
two years of ROTCattracted still others.
But all of them had one thing in common: 
the desire to begin their future as Army officers.
Why dont you do the same? Youll 
graduate to a position of real responsibility. 
Exercise leadership and management skills. 
Build a secure future for yourself. And enjoy the 
travel, adventure and prestige 
of being a second lieutenant in todays Army.
Army ROTC. Its 
as much of a tradition 
as the job it trains 
you for. Find out how 
to enroll today.
For more infor
mation, contact the 
Army ROTC Pro
fessor of Military 
Science on your 
campus.
ARMY ROTC.
BE ALLYOU CAN BE.

---------------------------------------------------

Editla!
Resolution addresses 
registration hassles
Registration is upon us once again, and once again 
we are faced with the inconveniences and inefficien
cies which plague the process. Students have particular 
difficultly registering for courses in the Computer 
Science Department and many camp our overnight to 
try to get the courses they need.
The administration currently has before it a resolu
tion which could relieve some of the problems of 
registration. The resolution recommends an amendment 
to the section of the Student Handbook dealing with 
registration for undergraduate courses. This amendment 
would have three major clauses: 1) Resources permit
ting, additional sections will be opened if demand for 
a course is great enough; 2) When a department re
quires its majors to take a course in another depart
ment, there will be a system of inter-departmental pre
registration; and 3) The resolution offers a set of 
priorities for who should be allowed into a course first.
While this amendment would not make registration 
an infallible process, it might alleviate some of the ran
dom quality of the current system. The administration 
should consider the resolution brought forward by the 
Student and Faculty Senates.
The key is not to 
bring your keys
ov With Spring Carnival only two days off, the Tartan 
editorial board asks people to remember not to mix 
drinking and driving. Spring Carnival is a time for fun 
and relaxation, not unnecessary injury of death.
So remember, during Carnival, moderation is not the 
key; the key is not to bring your keys. Dont drive under 
the influence.
Welcome to 
The Union
Recently an alternative newspaper has appeared on 
campus. This is an excellent addition to the univerisity 
community. Any organization with the goal of increas
ing the flow of information and heightening awareness 
on campus will ultimately make a very desireable con
tribution to the campus. Exposing individuals to differ
ing points of view on important issues and events is 
essential to a comprehensive understanding of those 
issues.
With this is mind, the Tartan editorial board extends 
an official welcome to the Union and its staff and en
courages everyone to pick up a copy of the Union.
Letters:Student rebuts Bidinottos letter
Editor:
This is in response to Mr. Bidinot
tos letter in last weeks Tartan. 
While I thank Mr. Bidinotto for his 
clarifications on Tartan s coverage of 
his earlier talk on Bhopal, allow me 
to comment on a few points that have 
been raised. (The local computer 
bboard referred to is the India 
News bboard on the Universitys 
Tops systems.) The argument con
veys the impression that Indian in
dustrial policy was the culprit behind 
the Bhopal tragedy. Nothing else can 
be farther from the truth. I fail to 
understand why a developing coun
try should not stick to the policy of 
self-sufficiency (that started the 
Green Revolution a decade back and 
now sustains the nation 
technologically superior in the 
developing world). True, implemen
tation mechanisms could have been 
faulty but that does not, in any way, 
imply that the aims behind the policy 
are misguided. (If you pardon the 
analogy, this is akin to criticizing the 
goals of NASA rather than its 
decision-making process). I invite 
suggestions for an alternative that 
can solve the problems faced by 
developing countries with exploding 
populations, sagging trade-deficits 
and heterogeneous societies like that 
of India.
Any student of history would know 
that behind any event of great 
magnitude lies a variety of reasons 
commonly referred to as root and 
immediate causes. In this case, the 
neglect of adequate safety and en
vironment protection measures on 
the part of Union Carbide (as clear
ly exemplified by the huge fines im
posed on UC here in the U.S.) was 
also at the base of the tragedy that 
was to happen. The points put forth 
do not even touch upon the 
hegligence of the Union Carbide 
management in terms of corrective
maintenance and personnel training. 
The lack of massive evacuation 
schemes (It Carbide - has 
never worked out an evacuation plan 
with the towns residents.. -India Today, Dec. 31, 1984- Hunt Lib) in 
an area abundant in cheap non
technical labor (one of the most 
significant reasons for MNCs to 
choose such a site for their opera
tions) and the lack of sufficient 
knowledge about the chemicals and 
their reactions (Water for 
neutralizing gushed up only 2-15 
meters while the vapor rose 33 
meters..) also contributed to the 
confusion that reigned on that fateful 
day. Immediate causes included the 
timing of the accident, not to men
tion the malfunctioning of equipment 
(A horrifying instance of negligence 
at the Carbide plant and the failure 
of safety system..). A discussion of 
the underlying factors that led to the 
accident should span the entire 
gamut of events on all fronts whereas 
a title like The Real Cause only 
tends to overdramatize the tragedy 
and at best remains a weak attempt 
at distorting the facts of history by 
presenting a single view, however 
coherent it might be. (For the past
9 years,., emergency relief systems 
of many chemical plants are design
ed to cope with stresses well below 
those actually encountered New Scientist, 27 June 1985).
It must also be borne in mind that 
soon after the accident, Carbide of
ficials vehemently denied that no 
(hydrogen) cyanide was stored in the 
plant and cyanide poisoning was not 
diagnosed until much later. (There 
is suspicion., that Carbide has sup
pressed information.. MIC breaks 
down into hydrogen cyanide New Scientist, Nov. 28, 1985). By then, 
multiple lives had been lost. Well, 
the failure to reveal the presence of 
poisonous chemicals at the moment
when it was needed most was a 
business and not a political decision 
( MIC is not a cyanide4 -Carbide 
statement). Multiple reports by Car
bide itself also cataloged tKe equip
ment defects and the need to resort 
to preventive maintenance (and on
ly countercharges that the Indian 
management was responsible for 
carrying it out were traded). Inciden
tally, minor equipment failures and 
gas leakage were also reprted from 
the Carbide plant at West Virginia 
soon after. But, only the industrial 
policy of the government seems to be 
under review here while the policies 
adhered to by UC itself do not come 
under scrutiny at all.
Furthermore, Mr. Bidinotto unfortunately misinterprets an understan
ding of the culture and its strong 
links with the policies made as 
cultural prejudicenot necessarily 
so. While I have always called upon 
officials everywhere, in general, and 
in India, in particular, to learn the 
lessons of history and realize the 
potential effects and hazards their 
policy-making can precipitate, I now 
appeal, solely on humanitarian 
grounds, to experts to also press 
for MCNs to shoulder respon- ? 
sibilities to an extent that at least 
equals their urge for bigger profits. 
My arguments are not intended to 
say that the administration wheel 
works perfectly well in India but to 
only claim that trying to put the 
bhame on a single body cannot be 
fruitful in preventing future disasters. 
Nor does splitting the blame for the 
sake of it. All possible ramifications 
have to be analyzed and checkpoints 
inserted at all vulnerable areas to 
keep Bhopal in the pages of history 
and not in the news again. Ever.
Ragunathan Rajkunir 
Graduate Student
php
!

---------------------------------------------------

April 15, 1986The TartanPage 11
President Cyert explains Carnegie Mellons tenure process
By RICHARD M. CYERT
A number of students have told me that they 
would appreciate knowing more about tenure 
and the way in which tenure is granted at the 
university.
The granting of indefinite tenure 
to a faculty member occurs at 
Carnegie Mellon when he or she is 
promoted to full professor or 
receives reappointment with indefinite tenure 
as an associate professor. Indefinite tenure 
means that the faculty member can be ter
minated only for some grievous offense. By 
making such a significant commitment, the
university expresses its judgment that the faculty 
member is going to perform effectively for the 
rest of his or her career. For that reason, we 
take a fairly long time before granting tenure 
usually 8V2 years, following the Ph.D. or ter
minal professional degree.
Faculty members who are candidates for a 
tenure position are first evaluated by their 
departments. Each departmental committee on 
promotions consists only of persons who 
themselves already have tenure. The recom
mendations of the departmental committee are 
sent to a college committee, where a candidate 
is evaluated again. The recommendations of the 
college committee, along with those of the apLetters continued:
Sex discrimination persists
Editor:
You ran an article on the first female to com
mand the Air Force Cadets at CMU, espousing 
the wonderful opportunities she has to use her 
leadership qualities. We fear the article is 
misleading and some facts should be presented.
Women now make up approximately 7 per 
cent of the armed forces; in 1980, 83 percent 
of them were concentrated in the four lowest 
pay grades. Six out of ten were in job categories 
traditionally reserved for womenhealth care 
and clerical work. Another 10 per cent are ser
vice and supply handlers, work that men find 
menial or undesirable. Women suffer from 
discrimination in job placements, promotions 
and pay. Sexual harassment and abuse are not
uncommon.
Furthermore, this young cadet states that she 
no longer worries about employment. For the 
lower class, minorities, and women, economic 
conscription has replaced the draft. It is sad and 
appalling that our government uses its resources 
for escalating the arms race instead of for educa
tion and job training. It is a well documented 
fact that each dollar spent on the military pro
vides far fewer jobs than money spent on non
military programs.
It will be useful for the student if a more 
balanced picture of the issue is presented. 
Thank you for this opportunity.
Patricia Heckart 
Carnegie Mellon staff
Student suggests pro-responsibility
Editor:
For the last several months I have followed 
the controversy that has raged in the pages of The Tartan over the abortion issue. I found par
ticularly interesting a comment made by Aman
da Cohen in the most recent discussion of this 
topic. She stated that pro-life supporters 
would have to find a new slogan, because she 
and marchers at the recent rally in Washington 
were also pro-life.
I found this comment interesting because I 
have felt for a long time that the chasm between 
the pro-life and the pro-choice camps is not as 
wide as either group would have you believe. 
Miss Cohen mentioned that those who are call
ed pro-choice supporters are also pro-life. I have 
also found, in conversations with the pro-life 
supporters I know, that they are pro-choice. 
Many pro-life groups offer support for life 
choices by providing the mother with free day
care and cribs or by arranging for adoption 
services.
Miss Cohen proposes that pro-life supporters 
find a new slogan. I have a suggestion for such 
a slogan. I hope that it is a slogan which prochoice supporters could also feel comfortable 
adopting. The new slogan which I propose is 
 pro-respo nsibility.  
Up until the Roe vs Wade decision, when a 
child was conceived out of wedlock, the mother
bore the burden of responsibility for that child 
simply because it is much easier to identify the 
mother of a child than the father of a child. The 
Roe vs Wade decision marked a strange turn
ing point in this situation. Instead of increasing 
the fathers share of responsibility for the child, 
Roe vs Wade released both parents from 
responsibility for their child. Under current laws 
neither parent is responsible for the life of their 
child until the day that child is born and takes 
its first breath. Born is a key word, because 
even if the child is aborted alive and breathing 
(which can occur in some abortion procedures), 
the parents are not responsible for its life.
Only one form of birth control is 100% ef
fective, but very few people are willing to use 
it since it requires total abstinence from sex. All 
I ask is that if you choose to have sex, do so 
with the full knowledge that, even with con
traceptives, you can get pregnant. If you do get 
pregnant, have the guts and fortitude, to take 
responsibility for the choice you made (to have 
sex) by choosing life. If you are not willing to 
take responsibility for a pregnancy, then have 
the guts and fortitude to be responsible enough 
to choose to abstain from sex.
Freedom of choice only works well if respon
sibility for choice goes along with it.
Jay T. Allen 
Graduate Student 
BiologyDIUlUgJ
Phi Kaps support needy child
Editor: I Iff tkf' 7 '*Editor:
You know how mom guilt-trips you for table 
scraps with the old Think of the starving peo
ple in...  Well the leftovers cant be shipped 
to those places, but you can send a sum of 
money and know who it goes to.
This little girl is Nabia Mendoza, a nine year 
ld from Ecuador. Nabia and thousands like her 
can be aided by writing:
The Foster Parents Plan 
155 Plan Way 
Warwick, RI 02887 
S when we dont eat the liver that mom serv
ed for dinner, we tell her about our Foster 
Child, Nabia.
The Brotherhood of Phi Kappa Theta
propriate dean, are then sent to a universitywide committee and, again, the candidate is 
evaluated. Next, a recommendation is sent to 
the president, who takes the final recommen
dation to the Board of Trustees. The university 
tenure process is perhaps the most intense, ex
plicit, and rigorous personnel evaluation pro
cess of any contemporary organization. Facul
ty and administration take the process serious
ly, because we realize that good tenure deci
sions are the best, long-run guarantee of the 
quality of the university.
The criteria for indefinite tenure are spelled 
out in the Faculty Handbook. In general, col
leges and departments require either excellence 
in teaching and a satisfactory record in research 
or excellence in research and a satisfactory 
evaluation in teaching. We prefer to have peo
ple who are excellent in both areas.
We evaluate each candidate by comparing 
him or her with all the candidates available in 
the United States, because we want our senior 
faculty to be among the top people in their pro
fessions. In these evaluations we obtain outside 
letters from distinguished people in both 
business and academia. We also evaluate the 
research and teaching records of the individual. 
In this process, most departments ask for stu
dent recommendations, although not all have 
been as systematic in getting this information
as I would like. It is important that students take 
part in this process. Departments should ask for 
their help, but it is important that students have 
a knowledge of the candidates about whom they 
comment.
The tenure system is an important aspect of 
academic freedom. As a society, we are put
ting a group of people who are regarded as in
tellectual leaders in position where they have 
the freedom to speak out on issues with in
dependence and without fear of losing their 
jobs. Even more important, holding tenure gives 
a faculty member the opportunity to take a longrange view of research and publications. This 
situation means that he or she can do research 
that perhaps will take five or ten years to see 
the light of day, without fearing that anyones 
demand for immediate results will place a job 
in jeopardy.
However, all persons who receive tenure are 
not paid equally. Salary increases at Carnegie 
Mellon are based on merit, and despite the in
tensive evaluation, all persons with tenure do 
not perform equally well later on. Yet, there are 
tremendous incentives, other than salary in
creases, for people to continue to work and per
form in their professions. The greatest drive that 
faculty members have is a love of their discipline 
and their desire to further it, both by doing 
research and by teaching others.
College Republicans growing
By EDWARD A. MOSCA
Subsequent to the recent surge of conser
vatism in America, we have seen the continual 
growth of youth involvement in the well 
established organization of the College 
jggj Republicans. Currently more than
150,000 students are active in 
C.R. on over 1500 campuses na
il tionwide. The primary goals of the 
organization are to promote and to make known 
the principles of the Republican Party, to aid 
in the elections of Republican Candidates, and 
to enhance the political skills and leadership 
qualities among the Republican Students. The 
influence of College Republicans is perhaps 
most prominant in their role played in the 1984 
elections. College Republicans rallied together 
in support of Ronald Reagan subsequently help
ing him obtain the support of the majority of 
the American Youth, not to mention that of the 
American populus. Although Pittsburgh is cur
rently 8:1 in Democratic support, gradual 
change and moderation has resulted in a grow
ing enthusiasm of Republican support as
demonstrated with the recent popularity of 
House of Representative candidate Howard Ash 
not to mention the more than 700 College 
Republicans present at universities in Allegheny 
County.
Three primary figures responsible for the 
development of College Republicans at 
Carnegie Mellon are Fred Goff, Howard Lossing and Ed Mosca. The goals they have set in
clude the aforementioned in addition to voter 
registration on campus and the sponsoring of 
speakers at Carnegie Mellon to discuss perti
nent and important issues. Through a strong 
membership drive early in the Spring semester, 
approximately one hundred students have sign
ed petitions stating both a strong interest and 
support of Carnegie Mellons College 
Republicans: The organizaiton boasts 35 strong 
members currently active in local political af
fairs and in contributing their views during a 
bimonthly meeting process. In early February 
College Republicans were officially recognized 
by the Student Senate as a non-funded organiza
tion and are currently in the process of receivcontinued on page 13The Tartan
Olve Peersen
Lisa D. McAnany
Editor-in-Chief
John Friedmann
Managing EditorBusiness Manager
Vijay ReddyJoshua M. LevineBruce kasrel
News EditorFeatures EditorEntertainment Editor
Jill DorsonJack PollerMichael P. McHugh
Sports EditorPhotography EditorArt Editor
Albrecht T. PowellCeleste ClarkKathry n A. Sitter
Production ManagerAd ManagerTypesetting Manager
John BabichMohan EmbarDave LevyDossier EditorContributing EditorTartan Assistant
The Editorial appearing at the beginning of the 
opinion section is the official opinion of The Tar
tan editorial board. Columns are the opinions 
of individual authors who are not necessarily on 
The Tartan Editorial Board or Staff. Letters to 
the Editor are opinions of individual authors who 
are usually members of the Univerity communi
ty. A letter intended for publication must be sign
ed and include the writers address and phone 
number for verification. Names will be withheld 
upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to 
condense or reject any letter.
Copyright  1986 by The Tartan. The 
Editorial Board reserves the right to withhold 
from publication any copy it deems unfit for 
publication.
Office: Skibo 50. (412) 268-2111.
Mailing address: The Tartan
Carnegie Mellon University 
Bo* 17
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3690
Funded by the Activities Fee. AH rights 
reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

The Presidents 
Distinguished Lecture 
Series Presents
ROBERT WILSON
'.fifN. i.
Work: Robert Wilson Work, 1967-1985
Monday, 
April 21,1986 
4:00 p.m. 
Skibo Ballroom 
Carnegie Mellon University
One of the most celebrated and controversial avant-garde theater artists in the world.
Robert Wilson is an artist who matured in the seventies, the Pluralist Age, when artists were 
allowed to work within a more informal context. It was a time which offered alternatives 
rather than final answers; the audience had to do its own thinking. Wilson called into ques
tion historical continuities and tested the existing system, successfully puching its 
parameters with his imaginative epics.
Einstein on the Beach, The Golden Windows, I Was Sitting On My Patio This Guy 
Appeared 1 Thought I Was Hallucinating,   and the CIVIL wars,   exemplify his reinvention 
of the grand spectacle. They become total theater worlds, blending varied art forms.
Having received select awards to include: a Harvard University Citation, an OBIE Special 
Award Citation for Direction, a TONY Nomination for Best Score and Lyrics, Wilsons work 
is a Theater of Dreams, presenting us with intangible moments, haunting visions, inar
ticulate utterances, and the shocking, delightful, and terrifying hyper-reality of our fantasies.

---------------------------------------------------

April 15, 1986The TartanPage 13
Nicaragua
Not worth bullying third world countries into submission
By MICHAEL WINKS
The government of Nicaragua has been under 
close scrutiny by our press and by the Reagan 
Administration. They have been called Marx
ist dictators, totalitarian, repressive or Com
munists. Rationality has taken second place to 
1 hysteria.
How does it affect Carnegie 
| Mellon? The threat of war in the 
' region would involve students of 
college age fighting for a cause they more than 
likely do not clearly understand. Vietnam was 
such a case in point.
The portrayal of the Sandinsita regime has 
been one-sided in the mainstream press. They 
are seen pretty much as Marxists, siding with 
the Soviet bloc, out to cut off all civil liberties.
As a playwright, I know to look beneath the 
surface of the hysteria for the subte# and the 
message within. The message seems to be that 
if a government comes along that has any Marx
ist influences or any friendly dealings with the 
Soviet Union, it is automatically seen as a threat 
to its neighbors and to the U.S. way of life. It 
is seen as an opposing ideology.
I keep waiting for people to point out how 
many times Cuba has attacked us and its 
neighbors. (Cubas militarization of Angola has 
not threatened us, though Reagan supporters 
would like to think so. I consider the missile 
episode of 1962 to be Soviet-based.)
The story of Nicaragua is one that needs to 
be looked at in terms of history. The country, 
like many in the region, has no demographic 
tradition. 50 years of Somoza dictatorial rule 
brought about repression so great that it spur
red a revolution. This was not a revolution ex
ported from Cuba, as so many conservatives 
said at the time, but a revolution born out of 
too much si^eppg by^e masses., .  ,
Two events in Nicaragua were seen to be the 
factors dictating Somozas overthrow: the ear
thquake that destroyed much of the capital city 
and the assassination of a popular newspaper 
publisher. Actually, what pushed Somoza out 
of power was pressure not only from guerrilla 
war and businessmen angry at how much 
Somoza was taking as his cut, but also from the 
U.S. government, weary of his murdering, tor
turing ways.
When Somoza finally cleared out in 1979, 
he took most of the treasury with him, already 
Having built up a $1.6 billion debt. He left 
behind a mere $2 million for a provisional 
government to play with. Conservative sup
porters, such as Richard Nixon, bemoaned the 
loss of a friend.
When the new government, composed of 
forces from all sides of the political spectrum 
took over, international aid began pouring in.
200,000 guns were handed out to citizens in 
anticipation of trouble from outside forces un
sympathetic with the goals of the revolution. 
Meanwhile, roads were improved, hospitals 
built, people were taught to read and write, elec
tricity and water were provided to those who 
had none and the economy grew.
The anticipation was wise. Ronald Reagan 
came along.
From that point on, the United States began 
an all out effort to make sure the Nicaraguans 
were seen as Communists. Economic aid 
through international outlets was cut off, despite 
the protests of both conservative businessmen 
and the left-wing Sandinistas. Most of the aid 
had been going to help the private sector.
The predictable result was that Nicaragua had 
to turn to other governments for help. Coun
tries in the Soviet bloc were only some of those 
asked. Mexico and Western European countries 
also gave assistance.
Then, rather than participating in the political 
process which included establishing a Constitu
tion and plans for an election, right-wing and 
business leaders began resigning positions of 
power in favor of criticizing from the outside. 
Some of those include todays contra leaders, 
Alfredo Robelo and Arturo Cruz, who saw 
financial aid was to be had from the U.S. only 
if they participated in military strategy.
Back in the U:S., government officials began 
watching Nicaragua for any mistakes it made 
to uphold its concept of the government as 
repressive. The government put warships off the 
Nicaraguan coast, began maneuvers on the 
Honduran-Nicaraguan border and trained contras, first in Florida and then along the border. 
In short, it created the contras, comprised of - 
former Somoza officers, exiles and Miskito In
dians (many of whom had fled to Honduras 
because of abuses by Sandinistas which were 
acknowledged and later corrected), an am
bitious, treacherous Indian leader named Stead
man Fagoth and contra terrorist attacks.
At first, the U.S. demanded Nicaragua stop 
giving arms to the guerillas in El Salvador and 
hold elections. It was seen as insignificant that 
the Nicaraguan people might want to control 
their own destinies. Nicaragua called for a 
border patrol to monitor arms shipments but the 
U.S. declined. The U.S. also claimed it 
somehow was possible to export revolution to 
other Latin American countries. One exports 
guns and troops, not a concept. I disagree. Con
cepts are very exportable.
Later, it became clear that what the U.S. real
ly wanted was the overthrow of the Nicaraguan 
government. C.I.A. funds were used to mine 
ports off Nicaragua, kidnap peasants and force 
them to join the contras (according to some 
reports, bribes were used) and to attack child 
care centers, schools and other civilian targets. 
Statements were made supporting an overthrow. 
Isolated incidents of abuse were trumpeted by 
the Reagan Administration as proof of 
repression.
The Sandinistas often found they were being 
stabbed in the back as they tried to reconstruct 
the war-torn country. When a newspaper, La 
Prensa, published an article saying there was 
a sugar shortage, people flocked to buy up all 
the sugar. This kind of economic destabiliza
tion was used to help overthrow Salvador 
Allende in Chile back in 1973.
Several facts should be noted in response to
Republicans active on campus
continued from page 11
ing their full recognition from the Georgia 
Federation of College Republicans.
The Fall of 1986 will see the continuation of 
the dedication and perseverance from the of
ficers of Carnegie Mellon College Republicans.
 They have built a firm foundation from which 
to operate, creating a strong reputation that has 
subsequendy attracted the interest of prominent 
speakers. Current plans include a speaker per 
month program in conjunction with the other 
Allegheny County College Republicans. Cam
paign activities will continue to increase due to 
the recent invitation of Bill Scranton, the 
Republican candidate for Governor, for their 
participation in his campaign. Stands on issues
will be brought to open forum and stongly sup
ported in an effort to present an alternative view 
in lieu of the recent on campus protests. Vice 
Chairman Howard Lossing stated Our stand 
will include support of Afghanistan, the Cen
tral American Freedom Fighters, and on a 
substantially higher level, the support of the 
Softward Engineering Institute. Monthly 
newsletters, additional membership drives, and 
the assination of Moammer Kadafy are addi
tional goals for Carnegie Mellon College 
Republicans next semester. This organization 
has high aspirations which seem quite attainable 
as long as current membership invlovement 
maintains the high degree of quality that it has 
contributed this past semester.
the claim that the Sandinista government is a 
communist totalitarian dictatorship.
-Freedom of religion is respected in Nicaragua. 
Despite struggles between the traditional con
servative hierarchy in the Catholic Church and 
the new Peoples Church, there has been no 
attempt to repress religious beliefs, Reagan Ad
ministration claims not withstanding. Truly com
munist states do not allow freedom of religion. 
-While Cuban and Soviet advisers in many 
capacities, not just military, do assist the San
dinistas, the government has offered in recent 
years to send all Cubans and Soviets back to 
their homelands. This has been ignored by the 
Reagan Administration.
-An election was held in Nicaragua in 1984. 
Despite U.S. attempts to brand it as a sham, 
international observers claim the election was as 
fair as any election held in Central America. 
Right wing parties participated, although some 
pulled out at U.S. insistence that this would give 
legitimacy to the electoral process. Far left par
ties, including doctrinaire Communists, also par
ticipated. Also, not unlike the Republican Par
ty, there is dissent within the Sandinista party. 
-People openly dissent, not only in the press 
but in the streets. No one is tortured or 
murdered at random, as in other countries in 
the region. There is some censorship; however, 
the country is at war, apd dissent sometimesr.; 'takes the form of treason.
-The government claims it wants a democratic 
system not just for the elite. They dont want 
a whomever has the gold makes the rules set
up. What this has meant is those owning land 
are required to grow crops or risk nationaliza
tion. Many have balked at this, calling it Com
munist. But with a trade debt and a need for 
self-sufficiency, Nicaragua wants all the arable 
land it can get.
This has also meant luxury items are in short 
supply. Basic staples are made available to 
everyone but a lot of goods which the more pro
sperous classes are accustomed to having are 
not available.
What the debate over Nicaragua ultimately 
boils down to is trust. The Reagan Administra
tion, along with most of Congress, agrees 
Americans cant trust Nicaraguas government. 
What everyone seems to forget is that the U.S.
has intentionally set out ot overthrow the govern
ment. The was has caused over $300 million 
worth of ecomonic damage to the tiny Central 
American country the size of Pennsylvania.
I think if we had taken a less adversarial posi
tion to begin with, Nicaragua might be more 
pluralistic and less inclined to declare states of 
emergency, revoking civil liberties. As it is, the 
groundwork has been laid for a reasonably free 
society in Nicaragua but the country needs the 
opportunity to determine its own future. It hasnt 
had a chance to grow up, to learn from its 
mistakes.
 It cannpt go about it successfully as long as 
a war is on; the U.S. itself has a tradition of 
revoking civil liberties while at war. Speaking 
out against World War II, internment of 
Japanese Americans was certainly not an ex
ample of our land of the free. And this coun
try had a democracy then that was 150 years 
old.
As students of Carnegie Mellon, an institu
tion with a reputation for excellence, we have 
an obligation to speak out against hostile U.S. 
intervention in any form, not just military. 
Rather than predicting the worst and in some 
instances creating the worst kind of situation, 
the U.S. should back off and let this revolution 
take its course.
If there* are contras who want to fight it out 
without our assistance, let them. They have 
been unable to hold territory or establish a base 
of support from within the country so their 
demise is predictable. I say this demise is 
welcome. I say its not worth bullying Third 
World countries into submission: we saw where 
that led to in Vietnam. Lets not duplicate our 
failures through military or economic bullying. 
Lets back off while we still can.
ABOUT THE WRITER Michael Winks is a graduate student in drama, specializing in playwriting. He has been working on a play set in Nicaragua for the past six years and has done extensive research, speaking with many who have visited the country.Before coming to CMU, Winks worked in the San Francisco Bay Area as a free-lance journalist.Inquiring Minds Column
By The Inquiring Staff
Last week, Inquiring Minds discussed 
Carnegie Mellons Master Plan. However, we 
left out one minor detail. How are we gonna get 
S200 million? Various ideas were discussed by 
Warner Hall: closed circuit wrestl
ing in DH 2315, putting a toll
 booth in front of DH 2210 ($.50 
1 each way), and making Mudge 
House into condos. Unfortunately, all of these 
brilliant ideas were rejected.
Finally, a brainstorm occurred at the Depart
ment of Getting Attention in 5017 Forbes. A 
work-study student was at his desk when he 
thought, Instead of squeezing the students for 
even more money, lets go after the alumni! We 
could invite all of the alumni back for a show 
at the Civic Arena. Imagine, it would give peo
ple something to do in Pittsburgh on a Satur
day night! It was with those fateful words that 
CMUs answer to the Jerry Lewis telethon, 
Carnegie Salutes Carnegie, was born.
CSC looks to be a first in rampus fundrais
ing. Nowhere else will you find such an array 
of alumni and out of work Vegas stars. The show 
will have a decided CMU touch. It will be broad
cast live over TOPS and ANDREW for those 
who cant make it to the Arena. Dress will be 
formal, no kilt, no entry. Even the programs will 
be unique, each in the shape of the fence. No 
wonder tickets to CSC have been the hardest 
to come by since Neil Diamond came to town. 
Scalpers with tickets have been getting as much 
as five disks per seat (ten if in the front row).
Besides Carnegie Salutes Carnegie, this 
weekend brings the long awaited Spring Car
nival. The highlight of Carnival, of course, is 
Sweepstakes. For those of you who will be 
asleep Saturday morning during the finals, well 
tell you who wins right now. In a photo finish, 
look for SAEs Limo to nose out DTDs Crisis. 
You heard it here first.
Elsewhere in The World of Inquiring Minds:
According to the Tartan, soon our ID cards 
will allow us to but not only meals, but food at 
Entropy, or books at the Bookstore. Can the day 
be far behind that we hear Pres. Cyerts voice 
on WRCT saying, The CMU ID Card, dont 
leave Schlag without it.
CMU was declared the winner of the bust MS 
concert last week. However, controversy 
erupted when Mellon College of Science 
students learned that MS did not stand for Math 
Studies.
Finally, with all of this fuss over Andy 
Carnegies 150th birthday, Inquiring Minds 
have noticed that not one mention has been 
made of the other Andrew, Andrew Mellon. Our 
question is, will there ever be a Mellon Salutes 
Mellon? If you know the answer, keep it to 
yourself, because Inquiring Minds Really Dont 
Give a Damn.
The Inquiring Staff is Slew Levine and Chris 
Williams.
Editor's note: As a humorous column, this does not accurately represent the facts and is not necessarily consistent with the views of the editorial board.

---------------------------------------------------

Spring Carnival Entertainment 
Committee Presents....
Quick Release 12:00pm Friday in the tent 
featuring CMU students: Kim Kirkwood, Jeff 
Muller, Rory Moore, John Judge, and Bernard Uy
Tom Willmorth 2:30pm Friday in the tent 
featuring "The All New Tom Willmorth Show"
w?-
FREE Caricatures by Michael Warren
4:00-7:00pm Friday,3:00-5:00pm Saturday on the midway
661st Air Force Belli d.7:00pm Friday in the tent
"A knock-yoursocks off, 
fantastically 
frightening 
and lusciously 
gory monster 
movie.
LIFE MAGAZINE
AN AMERICAN WEREWOLF 
IN LONDON
POLYGRAM PICTURES PRESENTS A LYCANTHROPE FILMS LIMITED PRODL CTION AN AMERICAN WEREWOLF IN LONDON STARRING DAVID NAUGHTOV JENN\ AGL'TTER GRIFFIN DLNNE 4. JOHN WOODVINE ORIGIN AL ML SIC BY ELMER BERNSTEIN EXECLT1VE PRODUCERS PETER GL BtR 6. JON PETERS PRODLCED BY GEORGE FOLSEY. JR WRITTEN AND DIRECTED BY JOHN LANDIS
uR
MarwcrtDPolyGram Pictures
FREE Horror Movies All Night Long
Friday in the Wherrett Room:
10:00pm An American Werewolf in London 
.12:00am Creepshow 
1:00am Attack of the Killer Tomotoes 
2:30am Night of the Living Dead 
4:00am Three Stooges
CWEEPSHOW
m
TheHost Fun < 
you'U # *Ever Slave 
BEING
*25.0on
A GEORGE A. ROMERO FILM
DISTRIBUTED 8* >AARNER BROSu
Aaargtit...99
(Relax. It's only a movie.)
Produced by STEVE PEACE A JOHN DC BELLODirected by JOHN DE BELLO |PGHECTORI N  P A R I S
1:00pm Saturday in the tent 
featuring "Elevator Music for the 1990s"
Magician Bill Eiler 2:00-4:00pm Saturday 
on the midway
Ghostbusters Saturday 9:00pm in the tent

---------------------------------------------------

Features
co mTudga f19871
* Tartan Staffwriter-Kitchen Worker
You are waiting in line at the Tartan Grill. 
Again you must make the impossible choice: 
Burger or Chicken? As you weigh the benefits 
of each in your mind, your thoughts are inter
rupted by the crazed ranting of one of the 
workers. You dismiss the seemingly mean
ingless banter, assuming that the poor employee 
has been working for so long that her speech 
has become incoherent. However, you are 
gravely wrong in your assumption. In fact, it is 
far from jibberish, the laborer is accurately com- t municating in a complex jargon only distantly 
related to English. Here my purpose will be to 
expose the reader to this strange but interesting 
logo. Hopefully after reading this, you will ap
preciate and possibly understand this new 
language previously known only to natives of 
the Grill.
First Id like to explain the origins of Tartanese. It has developed out of both necessity 
and convenience. Back in the beginning, when 
the Tartan first opened its doors to customers, 
everyone spoke normally and customer-server 
j communication went smoothly. But, alas, soon 
news of the Tartans ambience and superior 
food quality spread throughout the campus. 
With each passing day, the numbers seemed 
to double. Soon the fines grew so long, they
seemed endless. The Tartanites saw that they 
would have to adapt to these new conditions if 
they were to survive. It became necessary for 
the counter-kitchen interface to flow quickly and 
accurately. English was just too cumbersome 
and ineffiecient, it was too all-purpose and 
vague to be a useful medium. Changes took 
place swiftly because they had to. Please give 
me a boat of fries evolved into the new, 
streamlined, precise FRY UP! The results 
were fantastic. Imagine the savings in energy 
alone, from seven to two words with no loss of 
clarity. To the contrary, the new form was con
cise. The old version left questions in the mind 
of the kitchen man. How many fries? was a 
common reply. But now there was no amiguity. One fry was needed and it was needed now. 
As the practice caught on, fluency became 
almost universal among Tartanites. It was a suc
cess, customers were serviced faster, and with 
fewer botched orders. Tartanese was born.
Since then, the original Tartanese has been 
passed from shift to shift, practically unaltered 
by the passing time. The only changes reflect 
such advances as the invention of the baconburger and other monumental introductions.
So what does it mean? Now I am getting 
to the actual content of Tartanese, but I must 
warn you, Tartans frown upon the use of it in 
mixed company. It is appropriate behind the
counter and only behind the counter, so use 
your knowledge prudently. Dont barge into The 
Grill yelling UP HENNY-PENNEY! blatanly showing off your fluency (or lack thereof). In
stead just casually hang around the counter and 
listen carefully to the banter going on around 
you. Pay attention not only to what the counter 
person says, but how they say it. Style is the 
tip off to an experienced parler. Only after you 
have done this for quite some time, and you are 
confident that you really understand this difficult 
new tongue should you attempt to converse. 
Start off slowly. Reqest a Fry-two combo. 
Your host will probably be impressed and flat
tered. It is rare for us to encounter an 
amateur, so to speak. Soon you will find 
yourself greeted with smiles and extra large por
tions. And eventually, if you keep with it, you 
will begin to be accepted, almost like one of 
the crew.
Also, once you are an experienced speaker 
of Tartanese, dont expect to just saunter into 
Kiltie Cafe and strike up a conversation with one 
of the inhabitants. They wont understand a 
word youre saying. You must understand that 
although Kiltish and Tartanese sound alike to 
the ignorant listener, they are about as similar 
as Pig-Latin and French. Each one developed 
in a totally isolated environment, with its own 
pressures and requirements. In fact, the most 
common word in Kiltish has a totally different 
meaning upstairs. In Kiltish, SPLUDGE is the 
pudding derivative often served as a stand-alone 
dessert. However, to a Tartan, SPLUDGE is the 
hot, slimy substance gooped on sundaes. You 
can imagine the problems that arise from this 
communication gap. I remember once sending 
a first-dayer downstairs to get more SPLUDGE, 
only to have him return with a bowl of the cold, 
mushy stuff. Apparently once he got downstairs, 
he asked a Kiltite where he could find resup
plies of SPLUDGE. The misunderstanding is 
only too obvious.
Anyway, on to Tartanese. The languague is 
almost simple if you divide it up into its com
ponents. There are nouns, direction-verbs, and 
the adjective. Lets start with the nouns. The 
meanings of most nouns are usually apparent. 
FRY, SPLUDGE, GREENS all correspond to 
their obvious items. There is the noun BUGER 
to which you can add a number of modifying 
prefixes such as BACON- and CHICKEN- (i.e. 
a FISH-BURGER is one of those long things 
with cheese on it.)
Now I must explain the social organization of 
the Tartan. There are three sub-cultures that 
coexist in the Tartan itself: the kitchen staff, the 
busser drones, and the counter thralls. I, of 
course, subscribe to the kitchen ranks, the rul
ing class of the grill. Each group has its own 
dialect, specialized for communication within 
that group. A counter thrall has no idea that a 
HENEY-PENEY is used in the preparation of 
fried chicken. The busser drones have by far 
the largest vocabulary because of the need for 
a different word for each of those multi-colored 
emulsions found in the condiments bar. There 
is some animosity between the classes, but at 
least during the busier shifts, it is suppressed 
for the sake of efficiency. It all stems from the 
fact that the bussers and counters resent not be
ing considered craftsmen. A kitchen person is 
unlikely to be fired because it would mean the 
loss of a skilled food creator. Counters and 
bussers, however, are expendable.
There is one more noun that deserves men
tion. It evokes an almost frantic response when 
uttered. The word is RUSH. A RUSH is rare, 
but not rare enough, phenomenom that tends 
to occur five minutes before your break or the 
end of your shift. It is marked by a flock of 
continued on page 19New University Center Number One Priority
Bleachers
Track and Plaving Fields
By MARIA COUSINEAU
Special to the Tartan
Now that CMU has heard about the Capital 
Campaign for the University Center, students 
have been wondering whether this will actually 
happen, and, if it does happen, whether they 
will be here to actually enjoy the fruits of this 
project. According to Dr. John Morey, Direc
tor of Development and head of the University 
Center project, one thing is clear: this is the 
"Number One Priority On Campus, but time 
and trust are the utmost factors in dealing with 
the complexities of the project planning.
John Morey has had plenty experience with 
this sort of planning, for, as President of 
Muhlenberg College three years ago, he accom
panied the school through a similar process. 
"The center was just an empty basketball arena, 
which had not been used since they deem
phasized sports a few years back. Problems that 
are evident on the CMU campus (apathy, for 
one) appeared on the Muhlenberg campus, but 
on a smaller scale, he says. Morey en
countered some problems there which will be 
more carefully looked at here.
What are the steps in the planning? Before 
anything can be done, funds must be raised, 
basic wishes must be asked for, and an ar
chitect must be selected. Campaign committees 
actively approach various sources for monetary 
tapping by concentrating on foundations and 
individuals for the primary sources of major 
gifts. Corporations tend to be more difficult than 
individual gift-givers, because of their inherent 
interest in the academic/technological side of 
the university rather than student life in general. 
Concurrently, the wishlists, which consist of any 
possible thing that the Center could contain, will 
be limited and changed...We must be open and 
flexible to options, but everything we want will 
not necessarily fit. Decisions must be made, 
because every wish will be counteracted by 
another wish. In order to make this a wor
thwhile place, CMU will find a talented architect 
through an open or closed competition with the 
areas best firms. Again, this will take time, 
because the program must be pretty far along 
to give the architects enough knowledge of the 
plans. These steps must be made to create the
most beneficial University Center this college 
can use. It will be a slow-moving process, but 
we should not despair, because we want to make 
this Center the best we can make it, Morey
says.
Of course, the question of whether or not any 
of the current students will appreciate the results 
of all this time-consuming work still exists. 
The answer is probably no, if considering the 
actual use of the facility. However, the longrange benefits make it a worthwhile project, a needed project, according to Morey. The new 
center will become a place where the univer
sity comes together, whether through exercis
ing, socializing, or just relaxing. It will be the 
hub for the on-campus, off-campus, and com
muter student alike. Since CMU has already 
created a high level of academic excellence in 
such diverse areas as arts and technology, he 
says, the center will put CMU in the forefront 
by sharing in the living side of college, a side 
that perhaps the administration is finally realiz
ing is an integral part of the college ex
perience.
International Dinner
It is so easy to be negative, says Morey. This 
is true, as the evidence of apathy continues to 
be shown on campus. Time is a factor that is 
not attractive, but Morey emphasizes that the 
students and community must realize this fac
tor and trust the people who are also being pa
tient while doing the job of creating a good 
thing.
In order to cultivate this trusting at
mosphere, Morey brought up a suggested solu
tion which includes setting up a University 
Center Room. This might contain pictures of 
Skibo under construction, a model of the pro
ject (only when an architect has been found), 
and genera] information concerning the plans.
John Morey is very optimistic about this 
program, because it needs doing, and everyone 
wants it to happen. The combination of attrac
tiveness and the evidence of a kind of communal 
spirit will result in such a complex project, 
possibly introducing another element of per
sonality in the type of student CMU draws. This 
new vitality can occur, if the trust factor exists. 
We want to do the best we can for the student.
AIESEC-Carnegie Mellon held its first major 
Project of 1986, International Day, on March 
15 in the Morewood Gardens Cafeteria. Over 
300 people attended and enjoyed a fine speech 
by Dr. Janet Norwood, Commissioner of Labor 
Statistics from Washington, D.C. Dr. Norwood 
discussed the growing place of women in 
business, both internationally and nationally.
Following Dr. Norwoods speech, everyone 
dined on six different ethnic foods, served by 
,Tl<mbers of different ethnic organizations on
campus. The food consisted of French, Mediter
ranean, Japanese, Korean, Chinese, and Indian 
and was prepared, for the most part, by local 
restaurants. Special credit, though, must be 
given to the Korean Student Organization who 
prepared their own food.
Booths were set up by each organization 
displaying posters, pictures, pamplets, videos, 
and music of their homeland. Concluding the 
afternoon of festivities was a concert by a 
French bank. Zone Bleue.PORTUGAL

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanApril 15, 1986
By CUFF MODE  , W
Special to the Tartan
On Sunday evening there had to be thousands 
upon thousands of people trying to eat at 
MOREpizza. I even ordered my food before I 
got there so I could avoid any confusion that 
there might be, but forget that. Even the line 
to pick up your food stretched out the doors to 
Morewood Gardens. Well,. I had ^a choice^ I 
could forfeit my meal on contract and order 
Capri or I could wail until morning for mf 
meatball-parm to finally be ready.
This wasnt exactly the most difficult decision 
ever to be made. I ordered Capri in my room 
where I waited to confront the crux of the pro
blem which caused the massive crowds. Sleep
ing baggers!!! There must have been millions 
on campus Sunday and Monday carrying 
around their cute little Pittsburgh Survival Kits. 
Boy!, I wish I had one. Here I was, a person 
fully adjusted to college life, poised and ready 
to abuse a couple of naive high school seniors 
because they ruined my dinner. My roommate 
and I had two baggers this time, both wanted 
to be engineers here. Eventually one of them 
got back from whatever things that baggers dov 
As I was trying to calm myself down and avoid 
yelling at his entire race, he said, This room 
is so cool!. Now I know for a fact that my room 
is a cesspool, my roommate and I helped to 
make it that way. This statement was truly - 
touching since no one else who could see and 
smell ever said anything closfc. p offered him 
a piece of my rapidly hardening pizza.
Experiences with baggers should always be 
so good. This wasnt the first time I had bag
gers. My roommate, as an intended joke, sign
ed us up for each and every Sleeping Bag 
Weekend for as many baggers as could be fit 
in a room in Schlag. My roommate is quite a 
'guy. Our first bagger wasnt a bad guy except 
for the fact that he had some fettish with trading 
software. I apologized for not having any wick
ed games. The next set of baggers really made 
me wish I commuted to school even though I 
live in New York. The first guy was fine, I mean 
there was nothing to say about him except that
ers
Hi.I'm Flurorv^ Where's the party?
and the lives of everyone on my floor, I didnt 
answer with any audible repsonse although I 
wanted to tell him that hed smoked one too 
many twinkies. Once he found out that it was 
too late at night to eat campus food, he tried 
to sell me his free meal ticket.
What were we going to do with him for the 
rest of the night? I didnt think he wanted to 
discuss Zen Bud<fhisni or play chess so I sug
gested a movie. My roommate faced the situa
tion by disappearing and leaving me with Tiny 
Tim. I got a coUple of friends together and we
i 35,
he seemed. . . normal. When I saw the second 
bagger I almost ate my tongue. He had an eerie 
likeness to Jabba the Hutt with clothes. The first 
attempt that I heard him make at the English 
language was, as closely as I could tell, Do 
you guys have any beer? I like beer. I drink 
beer all the time. I drink lots of beer. Since you 
guys are college guys, you have to have lots of 
beer. I really hope you guys have beer. If you
guys havent noticed, I have a bit of a beer bel
ly. Who could tell? We never had any food 
in the fridge anyway, all we had was milk and 
some phone books. My roommate wanted to 
keep them fresh. I know that sounds like an ut
terly stupid joke but its the truth. When this 
giant of a bagger realized that we werent go
ing to feed him, he told us that he got stoned 
before coming to CMU. With fear for my life
Do you guys have any beer? I 
like beer. I drink beer all the
time. I drink lots of beer." 
BSSSSSSBW * % _all went to see the movie in 2210. The bagger 
was definitely disappointed since he couldnt 
fit in any one seat alone. That would upset me 
too. This whole ordeal would have been 
bearable if he hadnt started to smell. Just as 
the four of us; my roommate and I and the two 
baggers, got ready to call it a day, this dude 
started to reek of needing a shower. I figured 
I would slip in a hint about it, something like, 
Uh, are you going to take a shower?. This 
was the funniest part of the whole thing. He tried 
to convince me that he took showers when 
no one else was awake. He said hed wake 
himself up around five just to shower. I could 
just picture it, him lying down on the shower 
floor and pointing all four shower heads at 
himself.
Sleep! Dammit I was tired, but it was an im
possibility. I swore that I was going to kill my 
roommate for signing us up for this but for also 
not smelling anything. What the hell was wrong 
with him?! I covered my head with anything I 
could find, chancing suffocation. That next mor
ning, I figured I would end any future 
catastrophes like this one, but there they were, 
all huddled in front of Warner just waiting for 
someone to take them. They looked like 
homeless puppies, I couldnt do it. Well, maybe 
after the baggers I have right now leave.
Dont forget to check the front page for news!
Woodsy Owl says Injuries Hurt!
Forest Service, U.&D.A. 3
FIRST TRINITY LUTHERAN CHURO* 
(Missouri Synod)
531 North Nevil Street, Oakland 
(within walking distance of campus)
ADULT BIBLE CLASS: 9:45 AM 
WORSHIP SERVICE: 11:00 AM 
SUNDAY EVENING FELLOWSHIP: 7:30 
PM at parsonage, 535 N. Neville
Pastor Robert Hader 683-4440
WEBSTER HALL
Webster Hall Apartments 
Finest High Rise In 
Oakland's Cultural Center 
EFF. 12 BR
Your suite includes: -Heat, A/C, fully 
quipped kitchens, w/w carpeting,/ 
spacious closets.
Cable TV available 
Off street covered parking available 
Limo & bus at door 
Resident storage space 
Furnished units available 
Weekdays _ Weekends9-5 621-4132 124
We feature GM cars 
like this Chevy Chevette.
Honor Roller
National wants to put you on 
their honor roll. You can rent a 
car if you're 18 or older, have a 
valid driver's license, current 
student I.D. and a cash deposit. 
Stop by and fill out a short cash 
qualification form at least 24- 
hours in advance.
You pay for gas used and return 
car to renting location. Most 
major credit cards accepted.
Non-discountable rate applies to Chevy Chevette or similar-siie car and is subject to change without notice. Rates slightly lower for drivers over 25. Specific cars subject to availability. Certain daily minimum* apply. Weekend rate available from noon Thursday to Monday. Call for details.
$2395PER DAY WEEKENDS150 FREE miles per day. Additional mileage 12 per mile.
T National Car Rental
261-5500
682-1444
Camegie-Mellon deserves National attention.
434 Boulevard of the Allies 
4621 Forbes Avenue (Oakland)

---------------------------------------------------

FREE FILM: 
//
CMU Computer Store
ff
Consenting Adult
Sunday, April 20, 1986 
7:00 pm 
BAKER HALL 225c
Sponsored by:CMU GAY AND LESBIAN ALLIANCE 
BAKER HALL 
Box 172
funded by student activities fee
CMU Computer Store: UCC - A level
Phone: x2636 MM: PS00@TE 
For a current price list: Type HELP COMPUTER-STO RE-PRICES on any
TOPS System.
Epson FX-85
200 cps.,selectable type styles and much much more. Price:
$361.00
TEAM
FRINGE
get on the edge, baby.
ethereis stitutefor experience.
^ ...........
After voure done with school, you face one of the hardest lessons in life:Without experience, its tough to get a job. And without a job, its tough to get experience.At The W&ll Street Journal, we recognize that experience is something you dont 
start earning until after graduation.But while youre waiting, we can give you a head start by providing some of the same competitive advantages that experience brings.For instance, our wide-ranging news coverage gives you a dearer understanding of the whole complex world of business.Our tightly focused feature reporting prepares you for your more specific ambitionswhethei in management, accounting, finance, technology, marketing or small business.And our in-depth analysis helps you formulate your ideas in a sharper and more persuasive way.
Call 800-257-1200* ext. 899- or mail the coupon- and start your I subscription to The W&ll Street Journal at student savings of up to $44 off the regular subscription {Mice.Thats a pretty generous offer Especially when you consider what it actually represents. Tuition for the real world.
Tosubscribe,call800-2SH200next899tdHree.
Or mail to: The Wail Street journal. 200 Burnett Road. 
Chicopee. M A 01021
? Send me one year The WWI Street Journal lor $63a saving of S44 off the regular mburtptum finer
O Send me 15 weirics fcir $26 O Payment enctuaed.
? Bill me later
.Grad MitH/*ar_
TVwp*Mr kMH'dalH% piami v> *r. <drr y>m autfcru* Tin- Wall S mnAmtitt miurmalM* i mM d AuwTheW^ll Street Journal.The doth <barv at tkr Amenctm dmtm uonF
ln IVmkvHanA-* MHU TU OR, a I I** |V~ >**-  t.
Partially Funded by Student Senate.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanApril 15, 1986
9&
Dear Theo,
I have this problem with my friends. They like 
to say everyones name backwards. I cant tell 
you how annoying this is. Everytime I turn 
around theyre doing it. Its especially embarassing when they shout my name out in 
public. Everybody stares and looks at me funny. 
I know Im not the only one they do it to, but 
it really gets to me. What should I do???
Marybeth 
raeD htebyraM,
kooL, I wonk sti hguor gnivah ruoy eman dias 
)dna neve nettirw( sdrawkcab, tub sti tsuj eno 
fo sefil ehtil seidegart. sihT si a daor ew 11a tsum 
ssorc ta eno emit ro rehtona. eW 11a evah ruo 
sessorc ot raeb, os laed htiw ti. fl ouy tnac, oot 
dab htebyraM.
oehT
* * +
Dearest Theo,
What is the one true way? What is the mean
ing of it all? Does human life have any purpose 
in the cosmos? Is our world merely a microcosm 
in an entirely different universe?
Dazed 
Dearest Dazed,
Yes.
Theo
Dear Theo,
My roommates are mean to me. During the 
day, they are usually pretty nice, but once night 
falls, they turn into monsters. While Im lying 
in my room, they sneak in and dump boxes of 
Fiddle Faddle on me. This usually isnt too bad 
except in the warmer weather. Thats not all, 
though. Ill be asleep, and Ill hear them sing
ing songs about me to the tune of London Bridges Falling Down. I never took these jokes 
too seriously until the other day. I was about 
to drink a cup of tea and I noticed that it was 
laced with rat poison. When I confronted them 
about this they just laughed and said stuff like 
Take it easy Reggie, its a prank. I found this 
particularly offensive, especially since my name 
isnt even Reggie. I think this abuse is getting 
a little out of hand. Can you help me out?
Arthur P. Anderson 
Dear Reggie,
You learn a lot of things in the newspaper 
business. One of them is you dont go around 
letting people pour Fiddle Faddle all over you. 
Dont take that crap. Start playing some prac
tical jokes on them. Sharp bamboo sticks in the 
shower is one of my favorites. Through your 
retaliation, youll teach those S.O.B.s to mess 
with you (Heh heh). The next time they put 
arsenic in your tea theyll think twice.
Theo
Theo is provided as a public service to the CMU com
munity. Theo's veiws do not necessarily represent 
those of the Tartan newspaper or those of the features 
editor. Please address any questions or comments you 
may have to Theo, in caie of the Features Editor, Tar
tan newspaper, Room 55 Skibo. Thank you.
Horseback riding: 
A change of pace
By USA MCANANY
Tartan Editor-In-Chief
If youre tired of the cramped surrounding 
of classrooms, libraries and Oakland in general, 
open space and fresh air are only a short ride 
away on the PAT 1-B bus.
The Maple Valley Horseback Riding Farm, 
located North of Carnegie Mellon off of Route 
28, offers horses for beginner through advanc
ed riders. No trail guides will accompany riders 
unless one is requested.
Maple Valley borders on Hardwood Acres. 
Because of this it offers 6-7 miles of trail riding 
and four open fields. It takes a mere twenty 
minutes on horseback to reach the heart of 
Hartwood Acres, and this is mostly on paved 
roads.
Horseback riding is a unique way of relaxing 
and getting a change of scenery. With Maple 
Valley so near by, the opportunity is only a busride away.
For rates and more information call 
767-8826. As summer approaches, the de
mand for horses increases, so remember to call 
in advance for reservations.
Your favorite 
Wendys, Arbys, 
Kentucky Fried Chicken, eta 
delivered to your dorm.
Call687-FOOD
5:00 pm to Midnite. 7 Days a Week. 
Dorms/Fraternities/Sororities Only
Collegiale Delivery Services, Inc.
CMU PHILOSOPHY DEPARTMENT SUMMER COURSE LISTINGS (1st session)
80-100 Philosophic Methods and Morals (9 units) Instructor: Ernie Alieva
Times: TW & TH 10:15 am12:00 noon
This course is an introduction to philosophical method and argument through reading and discussion 
of texts in moral and political theory. Topics covered will include problems of metaethics and justifica
tion in moral theory, moral relativism, individual liberty and social justice. Readings will include selec
tions from traditional authors such as Plato and Mill as well as from contemporary philosophers.
80-211 Logic and Computability / (9 units) Instructor: Wilfred Sieg
Times: M,W 3-5 and Tu 4-5
This is an introduction to mathematical logic and emphasizes aspects that are central to the subject, 
but also fundamental for artificial intelligence and computer science.
The first part of the course is concerned with the question: is there, or is there not, a formal and rigorous 
framework in which one can represent the form of statements and the structure of arguments? For 
a most significant class of statements and arguments first order or predicate logic provides a positive 
answer. We will use this framework to develop and elementary part of axiomatic set theory.
The second part of the course investigates an important question concerning this framework: is there, 
or is there not, a mechanical procedure (algorithm) that can decide whether a formula is derivable in 
predicate logic? The negative answer, given by Church's Theorem, requires a precise definition of 
"mechanical procedure". That is given by means of idealized computers, so-called Turing machines. 
(Historically, this is the beginning of theoretical computer science.)
80-236 Sex, Drugs, Rock 'n Roll and Seat Belts: Problems of Individual Liberty, Paternalism and Political 
Theory (9 units)
Times: T, W & Th 1:15-3:00 pm. Instructor: Ernie Alieva
A central problem of modern political theory has been the delineation of and justification for a pro
tected domain of individual liberty, where intervention t>y society or the state ought to be prohibited. 
Are there certain acts that ought to be permitted regardless of the likely harm to those who voluntarily 
participate in them, or regardless of the offensiveness or perceived indecency of such acts to others, 
so long as no other individuals are harmed? Can such acts be justifiably prohibited or restricted for 
paternalistic reasons (ie. soley for the individual's own good)? "
Topics discussed will be selected from the following: so-called victimless crimes (e.g. gambling, pro
stitution, certain kinds of drug use, sale of pornographic materials, etc.), mandatory seatbelt laws, cer
tain forms of sexual behavior, problems of free speech, artistic expression and censorship (e.g. recent 
debates about pornography, sexist and racist literature, song lyrics which are sexually explicit or about 
drug use, etc.), suicide, euthanasia, invasions of privacy, paternalism in medical contexts and in oc
cupational health and safety, among others.
We will discuss alternative theoretical approaches to these issues, such as utilitarianism, libertarianism 
and contract theories, and critically analyze key concepts and distinctions such as liberty, consent, privacy, 
rationality, harms vs. offenses, self-regarding vs. other-regarding acts, sane vs. insane individuals and 
minor vs. adults. Readings will include selections from Mill's On Liberty, recent commentaries on Mill 
and works by contemporary moral, legal and political theorists, such as Dworkin, Hart, Devlin, Feinberg, 
Nozick, Berlin and Richards.
Illustration by Rob Yaffe

---------------------------------------------------

April 15, 1986The TartanPage 19
An Insiders Veiw of the Tartan Grill
continued from page 15
customers so dense, that the BURGERIZER, 
even at full speed, cannot spit out patties as fast 
as they are ordered. The prediction of RUSHes 
is a tricky business, similar to guessing the stock 
market. However, there are a few gifted peo
ple who, with the aid of complex formulas and 
advanced techniques, along with years of ex
perience are able to predict the coming of 
RUSH, often incredibly, to within ten minutes. 
They are known as MANAGERS.
Second only to nouns in importance are the 
direction-verbs. There are only five directionverbs: UP, OUT, IN, DOWN, and P. UP 
used precedes any request for an item. for'ex*; 
ample UP GREEN! means I.piea?
have some lettuce? Its usage has. become 
almost optional now, especially during rush 
when time is at a premium. FRY! and UP 
FRY! have become synonymous. The one ex
ception occurs when there is a special request. 
Say a trail needs a roast beef with cheese on 
it. She would say (UP) CHEEZE-BEAST! 
and tend to the rest of the order. When the kit
chen person has completed preparing the 
special order, he would throw the sandwich in
to the window and say CHEEZE-BEAST 
UP!". In this case, the UP is mandatory. Notice 
also that the placement of the UP is crucial. A 
request always follows the format UP noun! 
if the UP is used at all. On the other hand, in 
the response the UP always comes after the 
noun.
The use of OUT is much easier to remember. 
It is used to indicate the temporary discontinua
tion ofan item. For example, if a counter thrall 
uses the last of the SPLUDGE in the warmer, 
she would say OUT SPLUDGE! so that the 
other counters would know not to accept any 
more orders for sundaes. This would also be 
a signal to one of the kitchen people, to go
downstairs and bring up more.
IN is command usually given from kitchen to 
another, or more commonly from a MANAGER 
to a kitchen. It tells the person running the 
BURGERIZER (the machine that makes 
BURGERS) that a RUSH is expected in the 
near future so he should speed up production 
by putting UN more BURGERs. A sample usage 
might occur when the MANAGER has figured 
out that there will be a RUSH at 4:30. At 4:15 
he would approach the BURGERER and say 
IN BURGER!
DROP and DOWN have essentially the same 
meaning, just varying degrees of urgency. They 
mean the same thing to the FRYERER as IN 
ineaas BURGERER (a FRYERER is the 
personi|^poftsib|e. for running the FRYER 
pwhiekis the 0jachine 4at makes FRYs.) If the 
FRVsare running low^e WBIDOW-MAN will 
casually comment 'v*$OWN FR^f and the 
f R\ ERER will put DQWft* some more FRYs 
whenever he gets around tp it. However, if the 
MANAGER is sitting in his'chair, lefeurelv 
browsing through the current issue of Marriot Manager Weekly and doing other important 
things and all of a sudden a huge deluge of peo
ple pour in (indicating an unforecasted RUSH), 
he will run into the kitchen and screem franticaly DROP FRY! IN BURGER! Oy-vey!. 
Then the FRYERER will immediately DROP 
as many FRYs as he humanly can to calm down 
the MANAGER and compensate for the RUSH.
The only class of words not yet covered is of 
course the adjective. The adjective is BIG. The 
only legitimate use of BIG is in respect to a 
BEAST. So UP BIG BEAST! would be 
translated as Could you make a large roast 
beef? There is, however, a slang usage for BIG 
that is utilized only with great care, for if a 
MANAGER were to hear such a request, the 
SPLUDGE would realy hit the fain. Here is the
scenario: a counter-persons roommate comes 
into the grill and orders french fries. The 
counter-person, of course wanting to insure her 
roomate a plentiful supply of delicious french 
fries would request discretely BIG FRY!, in 
which case the kitchen person would overload 
a fry boat to full capacity and deliver it through 
the WINDOW saying BIG FRY UP! These 
BIG FRYs have been known to weigh as much 
as 8 ounces, a full 3 ounces above the standard 
FRY.
Congratulations! You now have at your 
disposal all the tools you need to talk in primitive 
Tartanese, but you lack the knowledge of how 
to utilize these powerful tools to their full ex
tents. You need not only your limited 
vocabulary, but also an understanding of the 
underlying structure of Tartanese. To compose 
your own phrases there are a few rules of gram
mar and they are simple ones. The first and 
most basic construct is the phrase. Everything 
you say in Tartanese takes the form of a phrase.
A 'phrasefan be as short as one word (FRY!) 
or as long as three (BIG BEAST UP!). The 
one word phrase must always be a noun, and 
in ihe one word phrase, aii UP is always assum
ed to preced the noun. Bat. unlike nouns, which 
can stand lone in a phr#^ djiggtJOn-verbs 
must be used m conjunction with a noun, 
CHICKEN-BURGER! ls ^pN&rfectly 
phrase, but the phrase DuWN! is mean
ingless and sounds silly. The end 
is always marked with an exclamation I.
Also, as you have seen with the direction-verb * 
UP, the phrase will either be a request or con
firmation, depending on the placement of the 
direction-verb. A request always goes 
direction-verb noun!, while the confirmation 
of that request would be noun directionverb!. Take for example the case of the 
BURGERER who is only too aware that his
supply of BURGERSs is waning. He would say 
OUT BURGER! or in English, I am too 
busy right now to get more burgers out of the 
refrigerator, would someone get them for me?, 
to which the WINDOW man would reply 
BURGER OUT! or as it would sound in 
English, Dont worry, I have a free hand and 
would love to get you some more burgers in a 
moment. So the response serves as a feedback, 
if the BURGERER does not hear someone say 
BURGER OUT!, he knows no one will help 
him so he must get the BURGERs himself. Be 
aware that in the previous example the reply 
is immediate. This is not true for dealings with 
counter thralls, however. When a counter says 
FRY! she assumes that the WINDOW man 
heard her because that is his job. He withholds 
his reply until he is ready to deliver the request. 
Only when he has loaded the FRY boat and sent 
it sliding it down the WINDOW shute will he 
repy FRY UP!. The thrall then picks up the 
FRY which is waiting ready for her to quickly 
grab and present to the anxious, hungerv 
customer.
Well, I guess thats it. Thats all you need. 
I think I have taught you enough Tartanese so 
that you can go out and learn the rest yourself. 
I hope that now this fascinating language will 
no longer seem a mystery to you. Perhaps after 
fyou become truly proficient in Tartanese, you 
wj| coiitjnue to progress and learn the intricacfes of K-iltish, and perhaps even tackle the 
^P^^f^ecognizable Morewoodaition. You 
fOuld someday in the not so distant future be 
able4 freely roam the entire UDS system con
fident of your linguistic talents. I wish you only 
good luck in your efforts. OUT BURGERER!
Mr. Levine is a E.E. major, but is applying as a transfer student to the Roy Rodgers Institute as a Cuisine Design major.
WE SPEAK TECHNOLOGY. 
DO YOU?
If youre a science or engineering major, youll want to be 
part of todays Air Force. Were developing lasers and 
satellites that make science fiction seem dated. Air Force 
ROTC is one way to be part of this fast-paced technology. 
Air Force ROTC has 2-through 4-year scholarship 
programs which help defray some of the college costs 
tuition, textbooks, laboratory and incidental fees. 
After graduation, youll be an Air Force officer, and will 
join those who are leading us into space-age technology. 
Take a close look at Air Force ROTC now. Don t let 
technology pass you buy. Be a part of it.
Contact Captain Carter, Porter Hall 15
268-8747
AIR FORCE
ROTC
Gateway to a great way of life.
TEAM
FRINGE
break the barrier.
Partially Funded by Student Senate.

---------------------------------------------------

THECMU RADIO CLUB
*
WILL BE PROVIDING SAFETY 
COMMUNICATIONS FOR SPRING 
CARNIVAL BUGGY RACES AS A 
SERVICE TO THE CAMPUS 
COMMUNITY.
The Carnegie Tech Radio Club, W3VC, sponsors various services for the cam
pus of Carnegie Mellon. In addition to the buggy safety coverage, we offer 
Novice licensing classes and exams, a free Radiogram service for messages 
sent throughout the U.S., Canada, and Mexico, and participate in emergen
cy preparation through such activities as the Field Day exercise.
For More Info., Send Mail to AR99@TD or Call x4532
* * * COME TO OUR MEETING TONIGHT * * *
7:00 pm in WEAN 5409
BEST
plZZA T
TheartnWo
3415 fw---------------------------------------------------

THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
? WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS OF CMU 
^ REASONABLE RENTAL RATES!
s THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND!
^ "THE FAIRFAX" ...4614 5th AVE.!
? YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
Furnished Apts. Available
The management invites the Faculty 
Merftbers, Graduate Students & CMU 
Guests to visit and inspect our ONE 
BEDROOM fir STUDIO APARTMENTS
Available for immediate occupancy
Dial 621-4030
We'll see YOU at 
"THE FAIRFAX" ...Neighbor.
Find out all about this year's 
Buggy races, plus history, trivia, 
and much more!
i
The 1986 BUGGY BOOK will be on 
sale beginning Tuesday, April 15 
at Skibo Information Desk and in 
front of Doherty Hall.
cost $1
Carnegie Mellon Drama
presents
A HOT NEW MUSICAL COMEDY
*
J I
PERFORMANCES 
BEGIN TONIGHT 
AT 8:00 p.m. 
Through April 27 
11 Shows Only
Faculty & Staff $8. 
Students $7
Kresge Theatre, College of Fine Arts Tickets & Information: 268-2407

---------------------------------------------------

*age 22The TartanApril 15, 1986
\W
Intramural Report,
Floor hockey play-off's start; softball continues
iy JILL DORSON
"artan Sports Editor
With floor hockey season nearing its end, 
iompetition in both the Majors and Minors Diviions remains tight. Kappa Sigma boasts the ony undefeated record in the Majors, at 5-0, in 
he Adams Division. GSIA is close behind with 
>nly one slash in the loss column, and UDS is 
ceeping the pack together at 2-2*1.
On the flip side in the Patrick Section, DU-A 
eads at 4-1, followed by SUPA and Central
Red Army at 3-1 and 3-2, respectively.
In the Minors Division, both the Mexican Ear
thquakes and Doherty Dynasty ended the week 
with clean slates, both at 5-0. In the Wales 
League, AF ROTC and Pilam trail the Earth
quakes, while TDP and AEPi round out the top 
three in the Campbell Section.
Moving outside to the softball field, action is 
somewhat slower. Gertrudes Saloon leads the 
Majors East while SUPA is tops in the West. 
The only Western League game left Kappa Sig 
with a loss.--------------------------------------------------
The Math Grads closed the week with the 
most outstanding record in the Intermediate 
League at 2-0, putting them at the top of the 
Animals Division. The CompSci Department 
also went undefeated in this division, winning 
their only game thus far.
KDR and the K-team share the laurels on the 
Dark Side, at 1-0, apiece, while the Dandelion 
Break and PhiKap suffered losses in their only 
outings.
The Alabama Slammers emerged victoriousGolf team tops at PAC Invitational
By STEW LEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter 
It was a mixed week for the Golf Tartans, 
placing second in one tournament and first in 
another. Wednesday, the Golf Squad traveled 
down to Wheeling for the Speidel Invitational, 
placing second with 436 strokes behind 
Westminster Colleges 434. The results were 
better on Saturday at the PAC Invitational. 
Carnegie Mellon took first with 406 strokes, 23 
ahead of the second place Grove Citv.
The Speidel Invitational was plagued by bad 
weather, including a touch of snow on the 
course. According to Mike Screech Morini, 
The weather was just too tough, hands got too 
cold. The scores were not indicative of the 
players. 
Three Tartans placed in the top six on 
Wednesday. Low man for Carnegie Mellon was 
Mike Fischer who shot an 80, placing second. 
Right behind him were Morini at 82, and Mike 
Fitterman with an 83.
Saturday, the PAC Invitational belonged to 
Fitterman who led the entire tourney with a 76 
on the par-72 course, earning him the title of 
top medalist.
Fitterman wasnt the only Tartan to do well, 
the rest of the squad finished within ten strokes 
of his score. Behind him were: Fischer at 78, 
Tom Frost with 80, Ken.Minor with 84, Bruce 
Irvin at 85, and Mike Morini at 86.
The Tartans next meet will be at Allegheny 
College, April 25 and 26.Apple puts the iin rack into student demonstrations.
All you have to do is march 
yourself down to your campus 
microcomputer center before May 
15th and spend five fun-packed 
minutes letting us demonstrate how 
a Macintosh computer can make 
life much more pleasant for you.
In return, well enter your name 
into a drawing where one very 
lucky person on campus will win the 
grand prize of five hundred dollars.
That's $500. Cash. American. To
spend on your education, or some
thing really worthwhile.
And, for those of you with the 
average amount of luck, there are 
free Apple" painters caps for every
one who comes in and learns how 
a Macintosh can help 
you work better, faster, 
and smarter.
Its one demonstra
tion that could 
change your life.
No purchase necessan To beam* edibleJorfmzes. each fMrtuifjani must fill <mi the miniumpnnideci at partici/xitinff mKmamfmler centers Wmnenneed^ 
nut be present to win (.kids depend on the number ofmines at each locaium, all prizes u illbe awarded inne^ ^ *1,em eh tie to Gary M Reynolds & Associates. Inc, 76535 V( Bluemound Rcjad. HroakfiM VI53005  I9H6 Afple Omifnder. Inc Afpk arui the /V'M 1 registered trademarks o/A/jple Computer. Inc Macintosh is a trademark of McIntosh laboratory. Inc and is betnf> used uith Us express >ermtssum More details 
a atlahle at your camfms mu roawnputer center
in the only Final Cut contest, leaving ATO with 
a slash in the loss column.
DU, Psych I, and Theta Xi-B share the blue 
ribbon in the Wall League, with undefeated 
records.
Finally, in the Minors Section, GI Joe leads 
the A Division, with two wins, while the Sammys fell to second. Division B action left the 
Light Waves at the head of the pack with the 
Scobell-2-Crew next in line.
Both Hey Man and Dynasty bested their 
respective opponents in Section C, while ac
tion in Division D has not begun yet. 
SPORTS IN SEASON
Commissioner: Todd Bross683-5134 
Please report campus champion to the IM
Floor Hockey
Commissioners:
Majors: Rob Schlackman683-3739
Minors: Paul Pecorax6614
Games scheduled for Tuesdays 
Thursdays can be made up 
Wednesdays, or Fridays at 7:00 p.m. Finals 
n yesterdayschedules for
and
available in the IM office.
Water Basketball
Commissioner: Mike Goddardx8651 
Teams are asked to return all equipment to 
the IM equipment room following the last game 
of every evening. Finals will begin this week, 
teams are reminded that it must provide a cer 
tilled lifeguard for each contest.
Table Tennis
Commissioner: Stuart Foxx4272 
All games must be played as scheduled 
Teams are asked to note the final scores on the 
chart on the IM bulletin board.
Call Pool
Commissioner: Scott Balex4314 
Teams are asked to play matches as schedul 
ed and report winning scores to the IM office 
Co-Rec Badminton 
Commissioner: Stuart Foxx4272 
Entries must be posted by Tuesday, April 22 
Indoor Soccer 
Commissioner: Vince Carozza687-8940 
Schedules are out and teams are asked to play 
games as scheduled. Also, players are remind 
ed to return the nets to the stage following the 
final game of the evening.
Ultimate Frisbee 
Commissioner: Eric Burgerson 
Schedules are out and may be picked up in 
the IM office.
Softball
Commissioners: ALL LEAGUES NEED 
COMMISSIONERS!! 
Anyone interested is asked 
to contact the IM office. 
Field Assignments are as follows:
Field ASkibo Parking Lot 
Field BForbes and Margaret Morrison 
Field CDonner Hall 
Teams are asked to note winning scores on 
score sheets and return all equipment to the IM 
shed after the final game each evening. Also 
officials MUST work assigned games. 
SPORTS COMING I P 
T rack
Commissioner: Paul Pecorax6614 
The meet will be held Wednesday, April 23. 
on the track behind Donner Hall. Everyone is 
welcome, both teams and individualsspecial 
heats will be held in each event for women only 
The Annual IM Dinner will be held tonight 
in Skibo Room 100. The dinner begins at 5:00 
p.m., anyone interested in attending may sign 
up in the IM office. Security guard Betty 
Moeslin will be honored at the dinner.
Paul Pecora and Pat McMullen haiVe been 
nominated for IM board president. The fina 
vote for president will be taken Thursday at the 
final meeting of the IM board, Gym 101-

---------------------------------------------------

April 15, 1986The TartanPage 23
Thp future of sports The Pirates win and the rise of the all-new SSL
By JAY KATZ
Tartan Staffwriter
This seemed as good a time as any to 
make some very different offbased and bad 
taste predictions about sports, so this is it:
 April 30 The Pirates, undefeated twenty 
games following an opening day loss, lead the 
Chicago Cubs by eight games in the National 
League East pennant race. Rookie Mike Diaz, 
who replaced injured first baseman Sid Bream 
in the second game of the season, has hit 11 
homeruns and knocked in 35 runs.
 May 15The Boston Celtics defeat the 
L.A. Lakers in the National Basketball Cham
pionship. However, the future of the team is in 
doubt after a freak locker room accident which 
Larry Bird has a champagne bottle dropped on 
his skull and develops amnesia.
 May 16In overtime of the seventh game 
of the NHL playoffs, Wayne Gretzky once again 
scores the winning goalwhile attempting to 
clear the puck from his own end, partially 
through confusion and partially by accident, he 
shoots a backhander past teammate Andy Moog 
to give the Philadelphia Flyers the NHL 
Championship.
 May 17 The Detroit Tigers, just two 
years removed as World Champions, have won 
only three games while losing 40 and are 
averaging an attendance of but 2500 discon
tent fans.
 May 21Mike Diaz continues his torrid 
pace, now having 25 homeruns and 65 runs 
batted in. He credits his hitting success to a dai
ly breakfast consisting of Grape Nuts and a 
Bloody Mary. The Pirates hold first place by 
11 games.
 May 22Pirates pitcher Rick Rhoden, 
first baseman Mike Diaz, third baseman Jim 
Morrison, and catcher Tony Pena all collide try
ing to catch a pop fly against the Astros and 
all are placed immediatelly on the disable list.
 June 3The popularity of synchronized 
swimming continues; 32,000 Clevelanders 
watch the Sacramento Sharks beat the 
Cleveland Mirrors in SSL action. Across town, 
the Cleveland Indians, owners of first place in 
the American League East, play the New York 
Yankees in front of 1600 fans.
 June 30William The Refrigerator' 
Perry flees to the Birmingham Stallions of the 
United States Football League.
 July 1Larry Bird is now convinced that 
he is Spud Webb.
 July 9The Pirates, despite losing six of 
their nine starters, continue dominance over the 
NL east, with an 18 game lead over the Chicago 
Cubs. Manpower is the main problem for the 
team as the team roster is down to 14. They 
draft Bo Jackson in the first round of the 
amateur draft, he reports immediately for a 
game against the San Diego Padres and socks 
three home runs and two doubles while perfor
ming only the sixth unassisted triple play in 
history.
 July 18The Pittsburgh Pyrahnnas of the 
SSL lure wrestling great Hulk Hogan to play for 
their team with a contract offer of 2.2 million 
dollars per year.
 July 20The USFL, just days before 
opening up summer practices, is consulted by
financial advisors who tell them that thev will
sustain a large loss if they compete with the Na
tional Football League.
 July 21The USFL merges with the SSL.
 July 28Practices open for the new 
league with a near tragedy- Refrigerator 
Perry, who can t swim, nearly drowns. For
tunately, he had the presence of mind to 
swallow all of the swimming pools liquid 
contents.
 July 30Perry announces that he is retir
ing from professional sports so that he can 
dedicate himself fulltime to buggy practice.
 August 2Pirate second baseman Johnny 
Ray Reinjures himself during a freak accident 
while watching Miami Vice. Pirate team doc
tors say that the injury was similar to the one 
that pitcher Jose Deleon sustained durring a 
viewing of Rambo.
 September 1The Pittsburgh Steelers 
fire coach Chuck Noll and replace him with their 
fans.
 September 4After overcoming a bout
with schizophrenia, Larry Bird decides it is best
that he enter politics than harm society in any 
way.
 October 19The Pirates, down to their 
last out in the seventh game of the World Series 
against the Cleveland Indians, are one run down 
with one man on base. The Pirate Parrot, the 
last man on the bench, hits a two run homer 
to bring the championship back to Pittsburgh.
 October 21Jay Katz, former sportswriter for the Tartan, is killed by an angry mob 
of pygmies and sports fans.
Well, that last prediction doesnt come true 
for several months now. Start placing your bets.
The Week in Sports
Mens Tennis
Tuesdayat Westminster College2:00 p.m.
Mens Track 
Saturdayat Hiram College1:00 p.m. 
Womens Track 
ThursdayHOME3:00 p.m.
THIS BUD SldN wsiP
BUDWEISER*KING Of BEERS*-ANHEUSERBUSCM INC ST LOUIS

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24The TartanApril 15, 1986
Buggy mania. . . Carnival preparation 
1986 Pittsburgh Collegiate
BODY BUILDING EVENT
Thursday, April 24, 1986 
Skibo Ballroom 8 p.m.
GUEST POSER: JOHN PAPPAS-MR. PITTSBURGH 
THE EXERCISE CO: 3rd PLACE FINISHERS AT 
CRYSTAL LITE NATIONAL DANCE CONTEST
Students with ID $1 
General admission $2
Sponsored by Carnegie Mellon Weightlifting and Body Building Club and Caber Club Fitness Center.

---------------------------------------------------

<
HPIZZA PIZZA PIZZA PIZZA
810 IVY STREET
682-3333
FREE Delivery S5V,K iS
We sell pizza by the slice
SPECIAL: Order $10.00 or 
more and get a coupon for 
FREE $3 Cheese Pizza.
<
Hs
<
N
N
LARGE$
PIZZA
FREE
iter of Coke 
With Purchase 
Of Large Pizza
2
NN
>
B
>
B>
Weofi p oH4-J p ISUZUm
COLLEGE GRADUATE FINANCE 
,/^inF^i^ PROGRAAA
Sm^^.,. NOW IN EFFECT
CHOOSE THE FINANCE PROGS AM 
THAT SUITS YOUR NEEDS
1986 PONTIAC STE*
OVER
1000
BRAND NEW
1986 PONTIACS 1986 PONTIAC FIERO*
* THESE TWO WORLD CLASS AUTOMOBILES ARE LISTED AS 
TWO OF MOTOR TREND'S BEST TEN IN THE WORLD.
GRAND AMSTRANS AMS
N
milSUNBIRD GTS
"I 

*
SUNBIROSfcl
TURBOS?
GRAND PRIXS?PARISIENNESa in
N
CONVERTIBLESBONNEVILLESGRAND AM SE S
PRICE SERVICESELECTION
CUSWMIH Si TISfA CriOH IS out HICHIST PglORITY
MONROEVILLE, PA 
373-3333 247-1600
Dirray
WOLVXV^OO I
Ltf the. Piicir orAIQ41VAL, Mfcfe LAbT fOKD/tK PY WIMNIO THC, 6 P<T U*I6NtoM Haxrwabp 6IWTO Pt HUM& CVtR. THt, tNtiTimy: HAkj4> TO Bt 5CLPAU-WKX
5a eweo I lm Tor d5ae*s TlhHt
60... tT Y<5UKb N0Wf((f
i KIIMWtr Tc t>t AMNOVNOP SAUTPAr 
AT THC, ANAKP*? CtXtMCM Y )

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26The TartanApril 15, 1986
Spirit soccer desperate; squad goes under
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager 
April 11 was the red-letter day for the Pitts
burgh Spirit. Civic Arena Vice President Paul 
Martha announced that The Man in Youngstown 
had had enough red ink, and that operations 
would cease immediately.
The announcement was sudden. 
The team had to give notice of its 
intentions for 1987-1988 by May 
15, and few expected a decision before that 
date. But a speculative story in the Fridays Post 
Gazette and a hastily arranged news conference 
the same day were all that Was required to finish 
the team off.
Sure, there were advance signs. One of the 
most glaring was the number of empty seats. 
Despite an intensive off-season ticket push, at
tendance was down over 200 people per game 
from an unspectacular 1984. Even many of the 
free tickets distributed by Pittsburgh corpora
tions to local schoolchildren remained 
unredeemed. The press room grew emptier as 
the season progressed, and winter sports talk
seemed to consist soley of the Penguins.
Although many people will not mourn, or 
even notice, the loss of the Spirit, the team was 
something special.
The team was the Pittsburgh sports under
dog. Desperate for publicity and attention, the 
team turned away no one. Even so, the press 
box was never full, and there was a kind of 
camaraderie that developed among the regulars. 
After two weeks, you knew most of the organiza
tion by name, at least the visible members.
Everyone was accessible. The Spirit had its 
good players, even its amazing players. But in 
indoor soccer, there are no superstars. The 
MISLs highest paid player, Steve Zungul of 
Tacoma, makes half of what recently released 
ex-Pirate Johnny LeMaster will collect for sit
ting out this year. All the players were willing 
to talk for as long as you wanted, because their 
futures were at stake too. Chris Wright, the 
general manager, never pulled the typical 
upper-management disappearing act, but was 
available whenever you needed a quote. And 
the Spirit PR department, although small, was 
professional in every way.
Because selling soccer in Pittsburgh was an 
uphill battle at best, they had to sell other things. 
A gaudy, but dramatic introduction with neon, 
a spotlight, and dry ice was only the beginn
ing. There were youth soccer games, media soc
cer games, giveaways galore, the Foodland Hot 
Spot Shot, and the ever popular Scoro. You 
either loved or hated announcer Dan 
Blankowskis constant screams of
Saaaaave.....DAVID BRCIC!,- but they were
at least memorable.
Whats up the road? GM Wright plans to 
keep the team together for the next several 
weeks, in case a buyer shows up. If not, the 
dismemberment will begin June 1 at the MISL 
meetings in Cleveland. Coach Don Popovic has 
another year yet to go on his contract, but will 
by his own admission, be scouting for another 
MISL position. Bidding will be fast and furious 
on all-star goalie Brcic and the dependable Paul 
Child, but many Spirit players will undoubted
ly be in different lines of work come next 
season.
Maybe Carnegie Mellon should buy the team. 
Its not as farfetched as you think. After all CMU
did buy and revive the not dead by barely warm 
Peoples Cab company. And wouldnt the Spirit 
go nicely with the Pirates? DeBartolo would be 
willing to sell cheap, and you would be getting 
a complete organization. With the amount of 
business acumen on this campus, the problem 
would not be the Spirit, but the rest of the 
league.
The ironic part is that one win could have sav
ed the team. If the Spirit had just beaten the 
Cleveland Force at home in the second to last 
game of the season, they could have been vir
tually assured of a playoff berth. Both Paul Mar
tha and Chris Wright admitted that the playoff 
berth may have made the difference between 
dissolution and one more year... 
SUMMER VOLUTEERS NEEDED
Goodwill Industries offers a wide variety of 
volunteer positions in a comprehensive rehabilita
tion agency.
Students can put their spare time to meaningful 
use by exploring careers or increasing their 
understanding of disabled adults. Please call 
481-9005, ext 228 for more information.
PARTS 
REPAIRS 
ACCESSORIES 
PICK-UP RETURN 
U5ED "C/V1PUS CRUISERS'
751-5604
Summer Fall Spring
WASHINGTON 
OR LONDON 
INTERNSHIPS
OXFORD sui^ER
Full Academic Years In
 Oxford University
 L.S.E.
 St. Andrews, Scotland
U.S. credits will be transferred 
through Hampden-Sydney 
College, founded in Virginia by 
James Madison in 1776. Graduate work is an option 
The Director of Studies for the 
Center for Quality Education 
Abroad (in Britain) is the Rt. 
Hon. The Lord Beloff, D.Litt. 
(Oxon.), Fellow of the British 
Academy, Professor Emeritus 
of Government and Fellow of 
All Souls, Oxford. 
INQUIRIES TO:
JANET KOLLEK.J.D., 
Admissions D irector CQEA/ 
WISC, Rm 53,158 W. 81 St., 
NY,NY, 10024.
(212-724*0004/724-0136). 
(EO/AA)
GRAD UA TES
CALL
1-800-457-4065 
FOR $400 AND
PRE-APPROVED
CREDIT ON A 
NEW FORD
Its Easy To Qualify 
For $400 from Ford 
Motor Company You must receive at least a bachelors degree or a state RN license between October 1, 1985 and September 30, 1986.
For Pre-approved 
Credit from Ford 
Credit You must have verifi- able employment that begins within 120 days of your qualifying vehicle purchase at a salary sufficient to cover ordinary living expenses and your vehicle payment.
 Your credit record, if you have one, must indicate payment made as agreed.
 And dont forget...you must receive at least a bachelors degree or a state RN license between October 1, 1985 and September 30, 1986.
These Vehicles Are 
Included In The PlanFord: Escort, Escort EXP, Tempo, Mustang, Thunderbird Mercury: Lynx, Topaz, Capri, Cougar Ford Truck: Aerostar, Bronco II, Ranger, F-150 & F-250
vtCE
g*
You are eligible for $400 even if you dont finance your purchase. Use it toward your down payment or get a check from Ford after the purchase or lease.
The amount of your preapproved credit is determined by the qualified vehicle you buy.
If a vehicle is not in dealer stock, it must be ordered by June 1, 1986. Delivery of all vehicles must be taken by August 31, 1986.
For complete details on how to get your $400 plus pre-approved credit, call the toll-free number today.1-800-457-4065
^S P^

---------------------------------------------------

April 5, 1986The TartanPage 27
Pirates lose veterans Gain excitement factor
R.J. Reynolds limbers up. photo by John Friedmann
Women's track falls to
Rival Hiram9 155-121
Bv JILL DORSON
Tartan Sports Editor
Placing second only to Conference rival 
Hiram, the Womens Track Team netted 121 
points in last Saturdays meet, just 34 tallies 
short of the winners score. Behind Carnegie 
Mellon were Youngstown State, Bethany, CaseWestern, and Thiel, respectively.
Shot putter Dee Nyzio and distance runner 
Margaret Wismer were the only Tartans able to 
take home individual honors, while the 1600 
meter relay team bested all competition. Nyzios 
throw of 33 feet eight inches topped the next 
closest challenger by over five feet. The junior 
trackster currenly holds the PAC shot putting 
title.
Eleanor Reid garnered a pair of seconds to add 
some points to her squads cause. In the field 
events, Reid tossed the shot 28 feet five inches 
fr a red ribbon, while she finished the 100 
meter sprint at 13.33.
Nyzio tallied fo r her team once again, as she 
took home the second palce trophy in the 
discus, while sprinter Susan Haugh broke the
tape at 1:05.8 in the quarter mile to place 
second.
The Tartans copped two places in the 3000 
meter run, as freshman Roseanna Neupauer 
and Diane Cionzo took second and fourth, 
respectively.
Freshman Francesca Crannell proved her 
worth as she finished the meet with third, fourth, 
and fifth place finishes under her belt. Cran
nell posted a time of 5:38.87 in the mile to 
finish third, while she broke the tape at 2:58.07 
and 1:08.83 in the 800 and 400, respectively.
The Tartan 400 meter Relay Team placed 
thrid alter Youngstown and Hiram, while Reids 
time in the 200 round out the squads third 
place honors.
The 100 meter hurdles left Mary Caperick 
with a fourth place finish, while Liz Kilmyer and 
Haugh copped fourths in the quarter and the 
javelin, respectively.
Finally, Lena Weidlinger took fifth in the high, 
and Kim Morrison earned a pair of fifths in the 
100 and 200 meter sprints.
The track squad will host its first meet of the 
1986 season Thursday at 3:00 p.m.
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
If the Pirates lose 104 games again this year, 
theyll certainly generate more excitement while 
doing it. This years young team, while not 
necessarily better than last year, has a flair that 
last years lacked.JBT.- Instead of Bringing Back the 
1 (s)Lumber, with an endless suces sion of nonproductive overpaid
veterans who made the game about as lively as 
a week-old cadaver, 1986s Hardballers are 
hungry and must produce to stay in the big 
leagues. No production, no big contract to eat. 
Just waivers and unconditional release. Shorstop 
Sam Khalifa is a case in point. He won his job 
during spring training, and notes I have to hit 
consistenly, or else I wont be in the big 
leagues.
A case in point: down 5-2 in the bottom of 
the ninth versus the Cubs on Friday, last years 
team would have retired docilely and in quick 
sucession. But the new Buccos battled back to 
5-4, and only Keith Morelands diving trap of 
Jim Morrisons line shot preserved the Chicago
You wont see too many blasts like R.J. 
Reynolds first pitch home run off Dwight 
Gooden opening night, but you will watch plenty 
of agressive baserunning and consistent hustle.
Judging from the makeup of the opening night 
crowd, Carnegie Mellon students have already 
taken to the team. The administration surely 
has.
Sure, we own a piece of the team. And that 
counts for a lot. Even baseball czar Peter Ueber
roth acknowledged Carnegie Mellons involve
ment in a pre-game press conference by noting 
that this team even has a university as a part
ner which...is a good thing.
The investment in the team earned Senior 
Vice President of Academic Affairs Crecine an 
introduction and picture on Diamond Vison
before the contest. It also placed President 
Cyerts smiling visage into the program, ob
tainable for just one small dollar.
But Carnegie Mellon also made its presence 
felt in other ways at the opener. Most noticeable 
was the number of students. The night wasnt 
particularity nice, yet there must have been upfor the winning position. Due to this rule, the 
Tartans lost points in the pole vault.
Carnegie Mellon came out ahead in three 
events. The Shuttle Hurdle team of Phil Gerard, 
Damien McKnight, and Paul Carnine took home 
a blue ribbon with a time of 1:03.50. Also vic
torious was the Four Mile Relay team of Keith 
Stopen, Pat Noll, Mark Sulecki, and hurderler 
Carnine.
The Tartans collected several second place 
spots, as well. Brian McDonald, Steve Antinson, and Jay Gladspy combined their long jum
ping efforts to earn a red ribbon, while Jeff 
Luster, Gerard, Gary Marchiano, and Jeff 
Kochanowski garnered second place honors in 
the Mile Relay.
After the meet, Head Coach Gary Meckley 
reflected on Grove Gtys victory, They had too 
much depth in the pole vault, shot put, discus, 
and javelin; they built up enough pointswe 
couldnt overcome.
Meckley also added, Winning is very impor
tant, I hated to lose. I just appreciate the peo
ple I've been associated with. The group com
peted very well, maybe I learned something. We 
lost, it wasnt the end of the world. It didnt hurt 
as hard as I thought it would because the kids 
were very good.
This Saturday, the tracksters will head west 
to Hiram College for a meet against Conference 
rivals Hiram and Thiel. The Tartans will be 
looking for their 49th and 50th consecutive dual 
meet victories.
Catcher Tony Pena confers with GM Syd
wards of 500 CMU students at the game. The 
interesting thing was observing who they rooted 
for. A suprisingly sizeable number were attired 
in Met regalia, and were cheering for Dwight 
Gooden and Co., although there were no dearth 
of Pirate supporters. But there seemed to be 
relatively little conflict between the two.
CMU was also well represented in the groups 
in attendence. A total of eight Carnegie Mellon 
groups were recognized on the scoreboard, 
ranging from UDS to ECE to WRCT. Pitt had 
a bare two, although there was a sizeable Pitt 
presence anyway.
I nmt. photo by John Friedmann
The scoreboard yielded a final suprise: a 
teaser in lights for Carnegie Salutes Carnegie, 
which PR director Don Hale managed to 
wrangle out of the Buccos.
Note: Mark the April 26 game against the 
Phillies on your Compliments of Carnegie 
Mellon We Play Hardball pocket schedule. 
Thats CMU day at Three Rivers, and discount 
tickets are available through UDS. The Pirates 
are also offering general admission seats to col
lege students for a dollar at selected games. The 
discount is valid April 24-26 versus the Phillies.Tracksters lose firstPAC Relay in 8 years
By STEW LEVINE
Tartan Stqffwriter
According to proverb, all good things must 
come to an end. Such was the case last Satur
day when the Mens Track Team placed second 
in the PAC Relays at Bethany, 112-96, behind 
Grove City. This was the squads first loss at 
the Relays in eight years.
Since the PACs are a relay meet, all events 
are scored in relay format. A single person does 
not win an event, a team does. In scoring an 
event, the times or heights of two to four different team members are tallied and averaged
Kochanowski and Luster later teamed up 
with Tim Sullivan and John Fixx to comprise 
the Sprint Realy team. While Sullivan and 
Luster ran the 200 meter portion of the race, 
Kochanowski tackled the quarter, and Fixx an
chored the squad, running the 800.
Both the Distance Medley and the High Jump 
teams took home second place honors, as well.
The Tartans were hurt by both injuries and 
new meet rules. One particular change now re
quires each team to field three entries in each 
event to be eligible. This rule cost Carnegie 
Mellon eight points in the pole vault._______

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan Sports
Baseball club drops both ends of doubleheader
photo by Jack L. Poller
Lacrosse players prepare for their match-up against Allegheny College. The contest 
scheduled for las Sunday, was cancelled.
photo by Jack L. Poller
photo by Jack L. Poller
A member of the tennis squad practices for upcoming games.photo b> Daniel Dothan
tan batting star Leo Cadden smashed a single 
to right to give the Tartans a 1-0 lead. The 
batsmen added to their lead in the second, 
when Pat Carey singled home John Waugamann 
to put the Tartans up 2-0. The Titans answered 
back in their half of the second with a homerun 
off the Tartan hurler John Spanos.
Leo Cadden untied the game again, as he hit 
a slow curve over the right field wall to put the 
Tartans up by a 3-2 count. The Titans battled 
back though, as a two run homerun put Beaver 
Community up 4-3. The Titans carried the lead 
through the game, as Tartan misques added to 
the lead. In the bottom of the fifth, Beaver add
ed three more unearned runs to put them up 
7-2. You cant give up 5 unearned runs and 
expect to win a ballgame, explained Tartan 
coach Bill Allen about Beaver having their first 
five of seven runs being unearned. The Tartans 
tried to answer back in their half of the sixth, 
as singles by Mike Hensel and Dave Nardozzi 
gave the Tartans another run. In the bottom of 
the sixth, Beaver Community put the game out 
of reach, scoring five runs off Tartan reliever
By PERRY PIERCE
Tartan Staffwriter 
The Carnegie Mellon Baseball Club took two 
tough losses in this weeks action, dropping both 
ends of a double header to Beaver Community 
College 12-4, and 17-3.
In the first game against the Beaver Com
munity College Titans, the Tartans kept the 
Titans close until the fourth inning. Bruce Nibbelink led the Tartans off in the first with a 
single to right, and moved to second on an er
ror by the first baseman. After two fly outs, Tar
Charlie Bailey.
Beaver Community College started the second 
game off as they ended the first, getting 12 runs 
in the first inning. Tartan pitcher Mike Hensel 
was running a lot of deep counts, as he threw ' 
sixty nine pitches in the first inning. The Tar
tans answered back with a run in the second 
inning, as Dave Nardozzi reached base on a 
single to right. Nardozzi scored on an error by 
the Titans center fielder, who could not han
dle a Bruce Nibbelink hit. In the Tartan third, 
catcher Leo Cadden smashed another home run 
to right field, to score Mike Hensel. Tartan 
Daryl Marvin also had a hit for the Tartans, but 
the batsmen were unable to overcome the Titan 
offensive attack.
Our fielding was a little shaky today, com
mented Allen. The Tartan gloves were a bit rus
ty because all the rain in the last week limited 
practice time. The Tartans have a rematch with 
the Duquesne Dukes this week, and hope to 
avenge the two losses which the Dukes dealt the 
Tartans earlier in the year.
