Volume 80, Number 16
February 5,1980
TARTAN
Carnegie-Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
One of the men who fought the fire Sunday morning at the Modern Reproductions building 
downtown. Think you can take a better picture? See page 8.
Senate decks C.A.R.D.
Two resolutions relating to draft regis
tration were introduced at last Tuesdays 
Student Senate meeting, and both were 
voted down.
Todd Knoblock, Math 82, introduced the 
first motion, and expressed disappointment 
that only two people took a stand one 
way or another on the issue. His motion, 
which requested that Senate at no cost co
sponsor a forum entitled The Draft: A 
Discussion of Facts and Alternatives, fail
ed 8-12-2. Many senators said they voted 
against the forum, sponsored by the CMU 
Committee Against Registration and Draft 
(CARD) because they felt action before a 
law was actually passed would not be bene
ficial.
Scott Sibley, Student Body President, 
said that it is important to get information 
about the current registration legislation to 
students.
The other related resolution voted down 
by Senate stated: Be it resolved that Stu
dent Senate of CMU, acting as represent
ative of the student body, is opposed to
Interview:
the use of any facilities at CMU for the 
purpose of registration for the military 
draft. Connie Smith (CIT), sponsor of the 
motion, explained that she was upset by 
how it was defeated.. .as many abstentions 
-as no votes.
Sibley said he voted no because it was 
not important to make a decision... and 
that the resolution was quickly put to
gether. Walt Young (GSIA), another no 
voter, expressed the viewpoint that Senate 
should wait until after Congress has 
enacted a law before taking action.
I supported it, but I dont think it 
would have any effect, said Mike Inners 
(MIS). He also said that after talking with 
his constituents, he feels he voted for them, 
as they seem to be opposed to the draft. 
This feeling was shared by Smith.
Ralph Sherman, chairperson of Senate, 
said he still considers the anti-draft reso
lution passed by Senate last spring as valid. 
He also said he felt senators didnt know 
what was happening and things could 
change easily.
Registration causes reaction Discussing the Draft
by Renee Rosenfeld
Since President Carters State of the Un
ion address, a return to draft registration 
has be' ue a major political concern. The 
quest becam6 even more crucial after 
last " ursdays warning to the Soviet Un
ion I Carters special envoy Clark Gif
ford. If the bluntest of terms, Clifford 
warned that a move by the Soviets toward 
the Persian Gulf means war. The warning 
was issued in New Delhi, before Cliffords
departure for Washington.
Opponents of draft registration see it as 
an insufficient method of meeting Amer
icas military needs. They feel that if a sud
den reinforcement of troops is needed, a 
computer listing of names and addresses 
would be virtually worthless and that the 
military should concentrate on strengthen
ing the nations reserve forces. In 1976, the
Defense Manpower Commission reported: 
continued on page 9
Theft suspect arrested
by Jim Balsom
Sunday January 20, 1980, CMU Police 
arrested a male who is suspected of 
entering several student rooms in Morewood Gardens while many students were 
watching the Super Bowl.
CMU police prepared a report and gath
ered student witnesses to the incident, but 
the initial efforts by CMU police were in
sufficient to adequately establish the pros
ecutions case. At the preliminary hearing, 
the original paperwork filed by the District 
Attorneys office on behalf of CMU did 
not cite the proper details or charges invol
ved in the case.
The Judge ordered the defendant held for 
30 days to give the prosecution a chance to 
re-do its paperwork. According to Lt. 
Castelli, the charges to be brought against 
the accused will be 4 counts of burglary,
4 counts of theft, 1 count of receiving 
stolen property, criminal trespass, harass
ment, disorderly conduct, and posession of 
a controlled substance (possibly 
marijuana).
Several of the students involved in the case 
were angry at CMU for what they termed 
a rather inefficient  way of handling the 
matter. When questioned about the Uni
versity's handling of the affair, VicePresident Van Horn pointed out that the 
District Attorney's office is responsible 
for^how the case is handled, and all CMU 
can do is to assist the city in whatever 
Possible.
The students added that they were taken 
to the preliminary hearing without having 
been told anything about the case, what to 
exg>.ct, or without having met with the 
prosecuting attorney. The students said 
they saw their names being written down 
by several unknown males and later com
mented that none, seemed to realize that
.........we didnt have to have this pressure
on our heads.
TARTAN editor Jean Pellegrini recently 
interviewed Tom Kerr, GSIA Professor and 
ACLU State Chairman; Lincoln Wolfenstein, University Professor of Physics; Tom 
Onieal, Coordinator, Pittsburgh Committee 
Against Registration and the Draft; Ray 
Brock, graduate student, physics; and Todd 
Knoblock, Math 82, about registration, 
the draft, and their implications for stud
ents, the United States, and the world. Ed
itorial assistance was provided by Ken 
Kulak, Jim Balsom, and Dave Radack.
TARTAN: The first topic we would like 
you to discuss is Conscientious Objector 
(CO) status. If a student feels that he or 
she should qualify for CO status, how does 
he go about extablishing this status?
KERR: The answer is that at the present 
time there is no way [to establish this sta
tus! with the government. The letter you 
printed last Tuesday in the TARTAN sug
gests that a person who has sincerely 
reached that view should report it [to 
somewhere other thanj the government so
that if she or he would be called, [he] 
would have a prior record of [his] posi
tion. The reason for having a prior record 
is the fact question on CO: Is the person 
sincere? And it is a proper question, be
cause if a person is not sincere, [he is] not 
a CO. If one wants to say, Im a CO, 
ai the day of induction, the question of sin
cerity has a very dark cloud on it. So if 
a person has reached a sincere position now 
they ought to send [a letter] to the Amer
ican Friends Service Committee, to their 
minister, to their rabbi, to their priest, to 
their professors, to somebody...[make sure 
it] has a date on it and its a sincere state
ment.
TARTAN: What will the procedure be for 
registration?
KERR: We dont know how this system is 
going to be. When you said [previously 
that CMU has been designated as] a regis
tration center, I was surprised because I 
continued on page 6
Eichmuller reports on food changes
by Pete Levin
Director of Food Service, John 
Eichmuller asked the TARTAN for an 
interview last week and informed us of 
many recently implemented changes after 
receiving the results of a survey taken of 
Food Service customers. According to 
Eichmuller, die survey indicated many 
red flag areas that he felt warranted 
more attention.
Among the more noticeable changes 
is the reopening of the Deli, with a new 
ordering system that Eichmuller described 
as a more formal, fairer system.
The Tartan Grill also has a new ordering 
system which, according to Eichmuller, is 
in the interest of speed and fairness. The 
new Bankline system was the result of 
student suggestions, he said. It has already 
been the target of student criticism, and
one cashier was quoted as saying: 1 think 
it is much slower than the old way. None
theless, the idea is new and Eichmuller 
believes it needs some time to be tested.
Another grievance Eichmuller com
mented on was the greasy food and cold 
entrees at the Kiltie cafeteria. N.w per
forated trays will be used to drain off the 
grease of chicken and meats, and Eich
muller has instructed his workers to limit 
their use of margarine in the preparation
of vegetables and pastas. We are very 
sensitive to comments about the grease in 
the foods, and I think these changes will 
alleviate that problem, he stated. The 
Kiltie Cafe will also start to use bigger 
plates, which can be kept warm. Unless 
a student specifically asks for the smaller 
plates, we will be serving the main and
course and vegetables on the same plate.
Kiltie has also changed their pre-served 
salads to self-service because Eichmuller 
was not happy with the portions; and 
they will start monitoring the tempera
tures in the cases more closely.
Some of the more subtle changes 
include the use of more seasoning on foods 
such as hamburger, and quite possibly a 
more fiendly, or customer pleasing 
attitude on the part of Food Service 
workers.
Eichmuller expects that more survey 
sheets will be placed near the cashiers in 
about a week, as soon as he and Yvonne 
McCredie from Auxiliary Services can 
catch up on the more than 100 personal 
responses that were requested by survey 
participants.

---------------------------------------------------

What are the issues?
Editor:
Once again this country is 
faced with a peacetime draft, and 
once again people have failed to 
see the deep-rooted issues of rein
statement. It is not an issue of 
patriotism. It is a matter of 
whether people will kill and die 
without ever questioning the 
morality or authority of the gov
ernment. It is about people 
making a permanent military com
mitment without / knowledge of 
the consequences.
There has never been a regis
tration without a draft. What con
ditions will necessitate a draft and 
where will the troops be sent? To 
Asia? To the Phillipines or apart
heid Africa? What choice will we 
have?
The issue is not people un
willing to give their lives for the 
government. People are the gov
ernment. People are against un
necessary war and military 
escalation. Why then should 
people allow themselves to be 
baited by questions of loyalty? 
Write, and get your friends and 
family to write to senators and 
congressmen. They are your rep
resentatives. Dont let silence 
speak for you.
Carters call for registration is 
more than a political tactic. It 
has serious, permanent conse
quences that will not only affect 
our lives, but will continue to
affect the lives of everyone. This 
latest effort is a continuation of 
previous reinstatement attempts 
aimed at an unquestioning youth 
and is part of a drive for increased 
militarization and arms sales. How 
many dead will it take before peo
ple start to ask questions? Can we 
afford to wait that long?
Daniel Gentile 
MIS
Anxious
Editor:
I write this letter with the hope 
of contributing in my own small 
way to Professor Lincoln Wolfensteins appeal for more discussion 
of ideas and critique of society 
within the university environcontinued on page 4
TARTAN
Volume 80 
Number 16 
February 5,1980
Editor in Chief: Jean Pellegrini 
Publication Manager: Michael Brzustowicz
Managing Editor:, Brian Byrnes 
Business Manager: Karen Stevens 
Production Manager: Smita Pai
News Editor: 
Features Editor: 
Entertainment Editors:
Sports Editor: 
Magazine Editor: 
Photography Editor:
Perry Colosimo 
Susan Borg 
Robert Zusman
Doug Kirsop 
Lynn Epstein 
Alan Spero 
Melody iv'iazzie
Contributing Editors: Jim Balsom, Ken Kulak.
Assistant Publications manager: Ed Zayas
News: Beth Arden, assistant editor; Jim Bost, Sue Brillman, Jeanette Bryan, Anne Cesnik, Linda Dickerson, Larry 
Duffee, Ed Frankberry, Chris Gebhardt, Andre Jenkins, Mark Kennet, Ken Kulak, Pete Levin, Joshua Medvin, Elliot 
Ohlberg, Andy Ragan, Vernon Valentine.
Features: Valerie Brandt, Bob Gleason, Robert Harris, Paul Karmin, Norman Katz, Kathy Krummert, David Land, 
Renee Rosenfeld, Leslie Weinberg.
Entertainment: Bill Lazar, assistant editor, Paul Banks, events editor; Kate Bertrand, Bob Henry, Timothy LeVan, Joan 
Livitski, Ted Smits, Karen Stevens, Bob Young.
Sports: David Wills, assistant editor; Fran Arsht, Ronnie Ben-Aron, Dave Brandwene, Pat Crump, Frank Pugliano, Scott 
Schatter, Bob Share, Thomas Smith, Lesley Weiser, Craig Woolheater.
Production: Ken Kulak, assistant manager; Michael Brzustowicz, Sue Wilkin, Ed Zayas.
Photography: Chuck Chidekel, Larry Duffee, Jenny Ladd, Skip Stong.
%
Art: Tom Hart, Acting Director; Robert Conroy, Tom Megalis.Dave Robinson,Tom Weinkle.
Copyright 1980 by the Carnegie-Mellon University Tartan. All rights reserved. The Editorial Board reserves the right to 
edit or withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Government 
of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578-2111 or 2112. 24-hour an
swering service 2113. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111. Printed by Artcrafts Unlimited, Pittsburgh, PA 15206
Get the message
Is this the true character of our constitution? No sir, it is not. 
Daniel Webster
Websters reference to the draft, from more than a century ago, 
shows that the issues of registration and the draft are not new. The 
fact is, we have only spent about thirty years of our history with con
scription while many spent the remaining 170 years trying to bring it 
back. This year, under the guise of a changing world situation, the 
military is again strategically seeking support to bring back the draft.
The Carter administration is arguing that they have not called for 
a draftthey have merely asked for registration. The fact remains, 
however, that there has never been registration without a subsequent 
draft.
And what about the all-volunteer armed forces? The administration 
is now claiming that the volunteer army is unsatisfactory. But these 
claims contradict previous statements that the all-volunteer force is 
working very well. In fact, the latest government study of the AVF ifc 
not being made available to the public. Can we assume that this report 
does not support the current arguments for conscription?
In any case, a draft would not remedy the problems that may exist 
in an all-volunteer army, whereas an upgrading of pay, better living 
conditions, and improved benefits for military volunteers could defin
itely improve the attractiveness and morale of the force. Yet the same 
people who are supporting registration for a possible draft are against 
the current bill in Congress to raise military pay approximately 3%.
All of this aside, isnt it the crisis of the Russian invasion of Af
ghanistan that has brought the pro-draft sentiment to a head? It is 
clear that the root of this crisis is not overwhelming love for 
Afghans, but the coveting of the oil that is so close to their country. It 
seems that it is easier for some to sacrifice the lives of young people 
than it is to conserve energy. It was lack of foresight that led to our 
dependence on foreign oil in the first place, and it is morally wrong 
to sacrifice lives for this mistake.
This seems obvious, but the people who will gain from war have 
the power and the money in this country, while the draft asks for sac
rifices from the most vulnerable political group in the countrythe 
young. Congress is waiting to see the.reaction of students on college 
campuses throughout the country during the next few weeks. It is our 
responsibility to express our sentiments on registration and a possible 
draft. Students and voters under the age of thirty have exercised their 
voting rights in proportionately lower numbers than other age groups, 
so politicians are not as concerned with student response. We must 
prove to them that we are an important part of their constituency.
We can vote, and we can have a say in our future. Write and call 
your legislators, voice your opinion at the Student Senate meeting 
tonight, go to Washington, get your message across: We will not com
promise our constitutional rights; and we will not die for inherently 
wrong political beliefs.
If this is truly the land of the free and the home of the brave, 
why cant we be free to be brave and fight for our country when we 
art truly being threatened? Shouldnt this too be a personal and freely 
made choice?
The Draft and Registration: A discussion of facts and alternatives. 
This meeting is of vital interest to the entire campus community. 
BE THERE! Today at 4:30 PM in the Skibo Ballroom.
"Oh, Leo ... you're not angry about that silly 
you? Let's make a deal. We'll hold the games and whoever 
Afghanistan!"

---------------------------------------------------

views
Federal aid programs must ensure student choice
This View from the Top was 
written by Walter Cathie, Director 
of Financial Aid.
In the past several years, the 
presidents of many prestigious ins
titutions including Yale, Swarthmore and Stanford, among others, 
have protested against the proli
feration of federal regulations and 
implied that unless encroachment 
on their institutional indepen
dence eased, they would remove 
their institutions out of federal 
programs, including financial aid. 
Perhaps those special colleges 
could survive, but I believe that 
most of us would not. In respond
ing over the years to national 
needs which federal financial aid 
programs address, we have 
changed our institutions and our 
student bodies. The process is 
probably not reversible, but in the 
field of financial aid, presumably 
the goal of federal programs and 
the institutions is the samehelping students. If we have the 
same goal, we ought to be able to 
solve our problems. Unfortunately, 
we have to remember and remind 
the Department of Education 
that federal programs were not 
intended to restructure American
higher education to conform to 
some federal norm. The value of 
our independent and interdepen
dent diversified systems of public 
and private institutions has been 
repeatedly proclaimed by both 
Executive and Legislative 
Branches.
What are the problems that 
beset us? In financial aid, the 
problems are overwhelming. We 
have a Bureau of Student Finan
cial Assistance whose staff is 
administrering programs that are 
politically committed to destroy. 
How can they balance their obli
gations to their superiors; those 
who have repeatedly attempted to 
eliminate federal grant and loan 
programs with their obligation to 
help us administer those same 
programs in an effective and cre
ditable manner? It is not an en
viable position. They have de
monstrated an outstanding ability 
to produce regulations of byzan
tine complexity and their delays 
with forms and funding, as well 
as reallocations, create crises situ
ations on many college campuses 
and undoubtedly affect student 
choice in the higher education 
selection process, not to mention
student access. The 1980-81 aca
demic year presents some interest
ing problems for college presi
dents, not to mention financial 
aid officers. The most significant 
problem is that the federal for
mula for determining the parents 
ability to contribute towards edu
cational expenses has been libera
lized significantly. At CarnegieMellon, we know that the average 
student will have an increased 
financial need of $1402. This 
increased need assumes that the 
parents income increased 8% 
in 1979. The federal government 
has taken steps to recognize that 
parental contributions expected 
in prior years was unrealistically 
inflated.' Consequently, they have 
modified their formula to mode
rate what a family is expected to 
contribute. While we endorse this 
conceptual change, we are con
cerned that federal funding in the 
traditional financial aid programs 
will actually decrease in 1980-81. 
This is problem-shifting not 
problem-solving.Carnegie-Mellon remains com
mitted to providing substantial 
financial aid resources to its 
students which will amount to 
over $2,130,000 in grant re
sources for the forthcoming year. 
In fact, the Carnegie-Mellon grant 
dollars from our unrestricted Edu
cational and General Operating 
income will increase by approxi
mately \SlA%, i.e. $230,000. 
Comparisons are odious, of 
course, but let me try a few. Did 
you know that the average 
student on financial aid at Penn 
State received over $500 more in 
grant assistance to meet an 
average increase in tuition of 
$116? The average student at 
Carnegie-Mellon University on 
financial aid received grant in
creases averaging $405 while the 
tuition alone increased $400. This 
is in a state where the ratio of 
public to private enrollment is 
61/39 and the average Supple
mentary Educational Opportunity 
Grant per student was $21. In a 
state such as Wisconsin, where the 
public to private ratio is 87^13, 
the average per student allocation 
of SEOG funds is $40. In the 
federal College Work-Study Pro
gram, similar anomalies appear. 
We presently have $1.1 million in 
Work-Study funds, but federal 
regulations are threatening to 
reduce that to $990,000. Unfor
Stand behind our nation
The following view written by 
Richard Arnold (EE 80) is a re
sponse to K. M. Kulaks opinion 
entitled The Time Has Come 
which appeared in last weeks 
TARTAN.
We live in a free society, emjoying more rights than any other 
people in the history of mankind. 
To praise ourselves is not to stifle 
necessary improvement, but to 
realize that we presently possess 
the very best of the worlds most 
precious luxury: freedom.
Our generation has been able 
to take that freedom for granted. 
A false sense of unthreatened 
national security has led many to 
divert their attentions from the 
preservation of that security 
toward the search for the ideal 
society.
These idealists desire refine
ment of details without regard to 
the vulnerability of the founda
tion. Dreamers assume we live in a 
nation apart from world influence 
whose response to world oppres
sion should be only to argue and 
bicker, and who can safely stand 
by and watch the expansion of 
that oppression.
Recent world events shatter 
those dreams. The energy crisis 
exposes our economic vulnerabili
ty without question. Still, some 
uninformed liberals turn from the 
search for a realistic solution to 
point the accusing finger at indus
try, when even the most casual analysis shows that industry has 
been the leader in energy conser
vation since the oil embargo. The 
chaos in Iran bares the deficien
cies of a military without the ca
pability for massive troop trans
port. Finally, the Soviet invasion 
of Afganistan emphasizes the ever
present threat of oppressive com
munist expansion. The condem
nation of the Soviet action by the 
Western, Moslem, and Third 
World nations demands that the
dangerous route of false security. 
Soviet influence in the Persian 
Gulf would tie a rope around the 
neck of the Western world, lead
ing to an economic restriction of 
freedom and a shocking turnabout 
in American lifestyle.
The voice of liberalism has 
dominated the campus communi
ty for too long, stifling awareness 
through the overly loud volume 
of a minority group. We can no 
longer afford to let idealist rhe
toric cloud the realities and needs 
of society. President Carter has 
called for the revitalization of the 
Selective Service system. Narrow
minded liberalism immediately re
sponds with realistically unfoun
ded condemnation. The time has 
come for the moderate and con
servative elements of the campus 
community to stand forward and 
be recognized! The time has come 
to show our nation that this 
generation can look beyond sel
fish interests and recognize the 
need of Selective Service registra
tion! The time has come to stand 
behind our nation, our freedom, 
and our way of life!
A peacetime draft is not the 
basic issue under concern. If 
necessary, such would come about 
regardless of present registration. 
Ironically for those who oppose 
the draft, registration today of
fers the opportunity for early 
recording of conscientious objec
tion, eliminating any doubt 
caused by last minute declarations 
if the draft is reinstated. The need 
for registration now is a need for 
readiness to act! Todays registra
tion would save precious time in 
tomorrows emergency.
Only the foolhardy could dis
pute the need for conventional 
warfare capability in the nuclear 
age. Only the blind could not see 
the possibility of a need for a mas
sive national defense movement. 
Though the all-volunteer military 
is deemed adequate today, can it
tunately, the pattern is not consis
tent. The fact that our students 
have higher average need based on 
our cost is generally not reilected in higher per student funding; 
often, as in the cases cited, the 
balance of funds is flowing, inex
plicably, in the opposite direction. 
Our goal must be to convince the 
Executive Branch and Congress 
that their financial aid programs 
must be directed to ensuring stu
dent choice in higher education, 
not just access. We need the 
solid commitment that only their 
sustained support can provide. 
Carnegie-Mellon is committed to 
its own survival and to the con
tinuing support of its students. 
In the end, the integrity of 
Carnegie-Mellon, as well as other 
institutions, is tied up with the 
integrity of federal programs. We 
have to make it our business to 
see that they both survive and 
flourish. Although we might like 
to tell the federal government that 
we no longer want to participate 
in federal programs, it is hard to 
justify the removal of $3.5 million 
annually in the form of federal 
grants, employment and National 
Direct Student Loans.
hj ovc Conroy
WfeWlMG HOJ tnpcumfi" -THIS IS Tb
the snaeur Tw y * W00LD ore
fo 0rW6 YOU A STOtGWT, HONEST 
*&VtR,wNor ms> Yoo Mjcrr 
OF BULL. THE ANt>
MW6J& OMUMlTCfc Wft CU^cD 
BECAUSE OP RUSSI* AND I RAW.
|H0H?l
AS YOU MAY RECALL,
IT HAS RSKJ REVEAUC 
[THAT fool) SERVices 
sew USlUfr ARCHITECTS 
[SIKK. l97*t.
IM 1*75,0*; HAD A BUMPER CUPP 
OF ARCHITECTS. Si wee  Volume8 
eat 'men au RY ous&ves, we 
sold -me surplus to cal tech.
0, Nmbbr 16F ay5 5F99C,ngi 
y-1MnUv1U5 Ul ovfcR SO COLLEGE 
1ysvUv-ty5PhAh
I9?8 we WERE EXAoRTlUCr ARCH
ITECTS ON AV) ivTEWATlOrtAL LEVEL. 
OoE Ta Oove^OMEMT SUBSIDIES 1*0 
1979 ) CflU HAD A RECORD HARNEST OF 
7-3 BIU.IOW BOSHES OF ARCHITECTS.
ayUF-y23, 8OAf wSVlwd ORwpSf8 
pReve PRIOSS bO*IKJ fcY SIX
CEfjT^ (\&iH6c lc the connoDITIES MARKET. &uT CMU'S foofc 
SERVICE COULD STILL HAUE 
1URWD A PROFIT AT THIS L.ouR,j 
MARKET VAVJD.
.lT TA8O lu8Swkf RwVOA8SV8
6WBAR&0 10 RUSSIA AMD 
I RAW, ONtf Cj7TlNKr
Ho slwh ?pST in ^ 
SPENT oW <H\oWIKJG- THESfc
ajwt*cts. it's not scwJJBJ
Sut. THAT Wtt OSCAR 
MAY6R oF ALMJAFY 
SCRVlCeS HPMDtWCr os 
ALOT OC BULL. Join 
US NeXT WEEK. WHEN 
TRY To FlwD OUT WHY 
H-+SS STUDEWTS WALK . _ 
FUWNY. --------
withstand the crises of tomorrow? 
Will it be able to aid a helpless na
tion in its fight against communist 
oppression?
From the battered walls of 
Fort McHenry to the gas-filled 
trenches of World War I to the 
jungles of the South Pacific our 
flag has led the fight for freedom! 
Wrong decisions made during the 
Viet Nam war have led many to 
forget this. We rightly hold our 
freedom so highly, and must sup
port our dream and responsibility 
to bring that freedom to the rest 
of the world.
99Fli
Freedom is earned. The de
mands of a draft registration, and 
even of a draft itself, are a small 
sacrifice to pay for the security 
and growth of that freedom. To 
selfishly deny our government 
this sacrifice is to deny all Ameri
cans and future generations the 
protection of what was earned by 
the blood, sweat, and ingenuity of 
our predecessors. Those not wil
ling to accept these terms of free
dom do not deserve to enjoy it. 
Multitudes of men have given 
their lives for our sake! Are not 
the men and women of our gen
eration strong enough to risk the 
same for the next?
Love it or leave it! does not 
refer to dissent, a right no more 
visible in America. It refers to love, 
love despite the faults we recog
nize and will endeavor to elimi
nate through a realistic approach. 
We love America and are willing 
to serve her in time of need. Our 
generation must let its voice be 
heard. The time has come! 
********

---------------------------------------------------

more letters
university community to share 
perceptions and understanding of 
the problems of twentieth-cen
tury mankind.
Here is my perception, simply 
and bluntly stated, of what Pro
fessor Wolfenstein calls the most 
serious danger by far that faces 
our society. . . the possibility of 
nuclear war. My own belief is 
that our hope at present lies in 
military strength and demonstra
tion of the willingness to use it. 
I believe the current activities 
in Afghanistan point clearly to the 
fact that the Soviet Union is 
ready, willing, and able to for
cibly impose its will in the face of 
weakness. I believe the surest 
route to a fight with a bully is 
to convince him that youre 
unwilling to stand firm in re
sponse to his aggressiveness.
Im aware that the ideas I ex
press here are often labeled sim
plistic, reactionary, ultra 
conservative, or right wing in 
fashionable liberal circles. I hear 
disturbingly little substantive 
argument as to the error in such 
thinking. Im genuinely anxious 
for someone to point out to me 
the error in my reasoning.
Jim Hoburg
Foul shot
Editor:
While dribbling into my house 
with a blockbusting thirty-degree 
winter [wind] chasing behind, I 
was arrested by a great foul-up 
staring at me from the sports 
page of the TARTAN.
In large print at the top of the 
page, two miserable defeats were
continued from page 2advertised for the mens basket
ball team...Not very fun reading. 
While titled in thin, delicate 
print underneath this, I discov
ered that the womens [basket
ball] team (alias Lady-winceTartans) has exploded over its 
opposition. Much more excit
ing [sic].
Who deserves the limelight? 
The team with the losses and 
the Y chromosomes? I refuse 
to accept this. If you claim the 
mens basketball team is more 
popular, then consider your in
fluence on public opinion. I 
believe that the team that ex
plodes is a much better can
didate for the top of the page 
(and worthy of more coverage.) 
Maybe you could print an action 
photo thats more representa
tive of the event.
The foul-up on the sports 
page is something that one might 
easily pass up. Its just a minor 
injustice, one might argue. Save 
your letters-to-the-editor for the 
rapes and the unequal job oppor
tunities that fall upon women.
I cant pass it up,because I 
cant help imagining how many 
others are eating it up, and un
consciously justifying rape and 
inequality with these sports page 
hierarchies.
Give credit where credit is 
due, TARTAN, and maybe one 
day women will share the glory 
of athletics (and maybe even 
share the athletic fields at CMU 
rather than putting up with the cut) Eben Fisher
Graduate Student, E&PP
Sports Editor's note: In res
ponse to your gripe about wom
en 's basketball, I say phooey. I had 
some bad experiences with the
women's lib movement and that 
was just my way of getting back.
And then there were none 
Editor:
The TARTAN reported last week 
that President Cyert commented 
that Were opertaing (this univer
sity) in exactly the same way as a 
firm. This was somenthing that 
Ive suspected all along. Most 
judgements of policy around here 
seem indeed to relate more to 
financial considerations, in the 
narrowest sense, than to educa
tional ones. The reliance on the 
market mechanism to set faculty 
and staff salaries, for instance, 
regardless of what those employ
ees may reasonably need, or the 
expansion or abolition of certain 
educational programs based upon 
financial considerations, without 
regard to their quality, certainly 
point to just such a philosophy 
being in a dominant position in 
the administrative minds at CMU.
However, given that the adminis
tration really is trying to run this 
University as a firm, it seems to 
me that and analysis of matters 
more basic than the ways in which 
salaries are set of the ways in 
which decisions about the worthi
ness of educational programs are 
made shows that they are really 
doing a poor job of it. Elementary 
principles of good financial policy 
are clearly being ignored. I have 
therefore deemed it imperative, 
as a concerned member of this 
community, to submit a few 
proposals for the consideration 
of the administration, that might 
be of some assistance ot it in 
bettering its performance.
Clearly and reasonable firm (and 
far be it from me to suggest that
the aministration of CarnegieMellon University is anything 
other 'than reasonable) seeks to 
minimize its costs and maximize 
its benefits. Let us, therefore, 
examine some of the costs faced 
and benfits recieved by the Uni
versity.
We shall first consider the stu
dents. The students come to the 
campus and engage in some illdefined and difficult-to-measure 
activity called learning of study. 
In addition, they engage in the 
various activities that other hu
man beings do in the course of a 
day. For the right to' study,they 
contribute in revenues far less 
than the actual cost of supervising 
and directing their study (an acti
vity called teaching, but more on 
this later). As a result, the Univer
sity has to constantly scrounge 
around for additional funds, to 
support these young people in this 
questionable enterprise. Further
more, they only barely pay the 
cost of the various other services 
that they demand and sometimes 
they even fail to do that (e.g., 
witness the recent financial diffi
culties of the Food Service). Now 
it is clear that no self-respecting 
manger of any firm should long 
put up with any such situation. 
The provision of ill-defined at a 
price far below cost, without 
even the prospects of a future 
yeild of a respectable profit as 
compensation for such endeavors 
(alumni contributions dont even 
allow the University to break 
even on the cost of educating the 
students), is a disgraceful thing for 
any firm that would merely call 
itself competent to be involved in. 
There is an obvious remedy
though, eliminate all of the 
students. This is my first proposal.
Having dealt with the students, 
we may now consider the faculty. 
Once the students are eliminated 
the whole teaching responsiblity 
of the faculty, which has always 
been a nebulous and difficult-toevaluate activity anyway, ceases 
to be a matter for consideration. 
Let us then concentrate on resear
ch, the other activity of the facul
ty. Research is something that the 
members of the faculty engage in 
largely by benefit of external 
funding. Such of it as is funded 
internally, however, provides no 
measureable benfit to the Univer
sity. Clearly, research papers and 
other products of academic inves
tigations cannot be traded on 
some market or other for a profit 
but merely circulate freely to 
libraries and other professors and 
create no wealth or value for any
body. The only product of re
search that seems to benefit any
one is the occasional new inven
tion that is of use to industry, but 
since these are normally patented 
by their creator or the corpor
ation that he or she was funded 
by, they do not cause any benefit 
to accrue to the University either. 
(Some might argue here that they 
create what economists and likeminded individuals would call 
good-will. However, is of value 
to a firm only if it accrues in the 
minds of those who sell its service 
or purchase its products, and 
since the university does not sell 
products, and only buys services 
of a sort that have very little to do 
with the quality of the facultys 
research, we see that this argu
ment is inapplicable.) Thus, I
I
\
AN SDC EVENT
ROCKIN'
ON THEHILL
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8 
HAMERSCHLAG LOUNGE, 9 OCLOCK 
REFRESHMENTS DJMIKE FAUSTI
OPEN TO THE CAMPUS COMMUNITY

---------------------------------------------------

International Student Organization of CMU
"EDUCATION IN MODERN 
CHINA"
Dr. Ralph Morrison, Director of International Services at the University of 
Pittsburgh, will discuss issues of the contemporary educational system in 
China.
Wherrett Room 
Thursday, February 7,1980 
7:00 PM
The lecture is free 
Everyone is invited to attend
Funded by Student Activities Fee
come to my second proposal : 
Dismiss the whole faculty.
Now, having thus dealt with 
the students and the faculty, it 
is a trivial matter to deal with the 
staff. The secretarial, custodial, 
culinary, maintenance, security, 
and other employees exist here 
only to serve the students and the 
faculty. Absent the latter two 
groups, it is clearly a waste of 
money to incur the cost of hiring 
such employees when they clearly 
provide no benefits at all. Hence, 
my third proposal is, simply, to 
fire the whole staff. The buildings 
and the rest of the physical plant 
can be simply locked up and al
lowed to deteriorate, and the 
firm (oops, I mean the University) 
can simply write it , off as some 
sort of loss and deduct it from its 
income taxes, or, better yet, they 
could be rented to the highest 
bidder, for dwelling space or com
mercial or industrial use.
Having now gotten rid of 
everybody else, the only persons 
left are the Board of Trustees and 
the highest echelons of the admin
istration. Now, any first-semester 
economics student can tell you 
that it is a well-nigh God-given 
right, nay, a duty, or every firm to 
invest its revenue in that place 
where it will yield the highest 
profit. The benefits to the econ
omy as a whole of such invest
ment, in terms of efficiency, are 
too well known and have been all 
too often explained to bear repitition here. Hence, and this is 
my last proposal, I would suggest 
to the board and the administration that they invest the remain
ing funds of the institution (i.e. 
the endowment) in whatever 
stocks and bonds guarantee the
safest high yields. Some possibil
ities that they might consider, on 
the basis of current economic and 
political situations, would by oil 
stocks, various investments in the 
defense industry (I would not be 
so traitorous as some of my soft
hearted compatriots as tp call the 
corporations in this industry war 
profiteers), and investment in 
companies that do business in 
South Africa, where such petty 
matters as political democracy 
and human rights are not permit
ted to infringe upon the impor
tant business of maximizing prof
its by keeping the price of labor 
low. From the resulting earnings, 
they should draw a reasonable 
salary (the division of the earnings 
between their salary and ex
pansion of the portfolio would be 
something that they would be far 
better able to determine than I), 
and live happily and wealthily 
ever after.
I hope that such a set of pro
posals as this might prove to be an 
instructive guide to the adminis
tration in their difficult search for 
the correct way to behave as the 
managers of a firm. The improve
ment in performance would be 
immeasurable, once the wasteful 
baggage now being carried were 
gotten rid of, and the companys 
(oops, there I go again  I mean 
Universitys) money - were put 
where it belongs.
With the sincerest desire to be 
of assistance in these difficult 
times,
Daniel Mark Rosenblum 
Banquet defense
Editor:
This letter is directed toward 
Mmm, mmm, Good!, that poor 
senior who was forced to eat a
dinner at the Senior Banquet that 
he found so distasteful. My heart 
bleeds for' that poor fellow, not 
for his tastebuds, but for his ig
norance. How do people like that 
end up at a top rate school like 
CMU?
Im sorry that you did not en
joy your chicken leg and boiled 
vegetables. Granted, it wasnt 
great, but it also wasnt what we 
ordered. That matter, however, 
is between myself, the Alumni 
Office, and Catering. Frankly, 
its none of your business.
Your major complaint is about 
the food. Is that really what 
makes a banquet? How about an 
evening with your friends, or the 
thought behind the banquet? 
Maybe we should forget about 
giving away a trip every year, so 
prima donnas like yourself can 
better stuff your faces.
Or perhaps we should forget 
about the Senior Banquet al
together. Of course we cut cor
ners, do you have any idea of the 
expense involved in putting to
gether a banquet of that size? Do 
you know where the money 
comes from fot such a banquet? 
Not only from inflated tuition, 
but also from the private contrib
utions of alumni.
The Banquet continues every 
year, despite an insufficient bud
get, because unlike yourself, there 
are people in this school who 
appreciate an effort, and are cap
able of looking beyond the meal 
itself to the sentiment involved 
in the Senior Banquet. Believe it 
or not, people have actually 
thanked me.
Yes, SARC and the people in 
the Alumni Office did put time 
into this affaira lot of time. I
didnt notice you on the fifth 
floor of Warner Hall offering any 
help. I would like to invite you, 
however, to join Senior Services, 
(the committee responsible for 
the Banquet), so that I may have 
the benefit of your expertise 
when planning the Oth Year Re
union in May. Do you have the 
guts?
Do you really think that stu
dents would be willing to pay a 
minimum of $8 a person to at
tend such a banquet? In my 
opinion, that would cause the 
meal to be an elitist affair that 
only the well-off students could 
attend. Please excuse us for try
ing to bring the entire class to
gether.
Lastly, I resent your cowardice 
in not printing your name. You 
direct a lot of criticism toward the 
Senior Banquet which I take per
sonally. You made a pretty viscious attack against something 
that I put a lot of time into, and I 
feel that you at least owe me the 
courtesy of letting me know who 
you are.
I am not afraid to sign my 
name. I am . ..
Susan Brillman 
Chairwoman 
Senior Services 
Ticket offer
Editor:
On Wednesday, January 30, sever
al cars were ticketed in the park
ing lot next to Science Hall. This 
area is not marked restricted in 
any way. It is directly adjacent to 
the CMU building and has been 
used by CMU people for a long 
time.The^e will be a hearing on 
Thursday, February 7, at 9 AM. 
The hearing is officially for my
{MiM
case, and I paid a retainer for it. 
However, everyone involved 
should be able to get their tickets 
cleared up at the same time.
Nils K. Hammer 
The Last Word
Editor:
I feel I have neglected the fa
culty and staff in my moneysaving tips. I would like to remedy 
the situation, by offering faculty 
and staff an opportunity to get in 
on the ground floor of a guaran
teed 15% investment, with actual 
yield somewhere around 17%.
All thats required is a mini
mum $200 deposit, and the in
vestment can be increased in in
crements of $100.
Now before you guys go rush
ing to put your money down, 
I think Id better tell you the 
catchyou have to eat this 
investment. Its worse than it 
seemsthe investment is in a 
Vali-Dine account with Food Ser
vice. 
I have it from a reliable source 
that Food Service isnt publi
cizing this too much since the 
15% discount is really hurting 
them. But thats their problem, 
and you might as well make 
the most of it.
Just go to the Vali-Dine office, 
right next to the art-bookstore 
, in the bottom floor of Skibo 
(right where the old womens rest 
room used to be), get an applica
tion, then fill it out, put money 
into your account through the 
cashiers office, and return with 
your receipt to the Vali-Dine of
fice, where they will usher you 
into the old shower room, take 
your picture for your ValiDine card. Bon-appetit.
A satisfied customer

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6TARTANFebruary 5, 1980
Viewing the draft.
understand they are going to do it by com
puter.
BROCK: We dont know until there are 
standby plans made by each state Selective 
Service office. The particular one in Penn
sylvania targets universities, high schools, 
post offices, fire departments, and all kinds 
of other places as potential registration 
centers.
ONIEAL: 1 would like to follow up on
Toms statement from a counseling aspect 
for a student facing this. CO is in itself a 
dark cloud for a lot of students; its a 
foreign sort of combination of words...Bas
ically, in its simplest form [CO] is sheer 
conscientious or feeling of moral statement 
against war and participation in war. There 
will be increasingly, as days go by, places in 
the city where a person can go to a coun
selor, not to establish themselves as consci
entious objectors, but to explore what the 
moral ramifications of CO status are. It 
is very difficult sometimes to sit alone and 
decide what there ramifications are, but 
a counselor who has had some experience 
may be able to talk about his own personal 
life and experiences. He may be able to give you some insight into how to reflect
on the question. . . the Friends Meeting 
House is one place where students can 
comenot to be convinced of that position 
but to be able to explore it. Thats the 
best kind of counseling that can be-offered 
with regard to that particular question. 
TARTAN: You emphasize that counsel
ing means not to be convinced of some
thing but just to explore and to discuss. 
KERR: The COs should make up their
own minds. A good counselor recognizes 
that from a moral and legal point of view. 
TARTAN: What about counseling on the
CMU campus? Has anyone from the Ad
ministration approached you?
KERR: No.
TARTAN: No one approached you?
KERR: And if people came to me now, I 
feel that my role is to say, This is the way 
the law is. Have^you talked to, first of all, 
any individual? Do you happen to have a 
religious observance? If youre protestant, 
do you have a ministry you can talk to? If 
youre Jewish, do you have a Rabbi you 
can talk to? If youre Catholic, a Priest... 
TARTAN: So, effectively, there is no 
counseling set up on this campus?
KERR: Right. I would send students to
counsel cause that aint my role.
ONIEAL: I should mention that the cam
pus ministry is responsive to this problem. 
I know for a fact that Rabbi Levine, who is 
a member of the campus ministry, has al
ready agreed to counsel any student, and 
especially those Jewish students, who are 
questioning the religious standpoint of 
their position. He has had experience coun
seling. I believe that Father Bob English is 
also interested. This would be the first of
fice to contact as a reference point. 
TARTAN: Does CMU have some sort of 
legal responsibility to provide counseling? 
KERR: No, unless they got a new law tom
orrow.
BROCK: Was the system that was set up 
during the Vietnam War something that 
was set up by the Administration, under 
the auspices of the Administration or the 
Student Senate?
KERR: There was somebody that was
working almost full-time in the Dean of 
Students office. It wasnt necessarily 
counseling with respect to the position of 
CO, but every day there were students that 
had something from their draft board 
which needed to be responded to in some 
perfunctory way.
BROCK: So it was just somebody who
knew the Selective Service Law, and not 
only Conscientious Objection?
KERR: But. one other thing I think we
The newly renovated SDC dark
room in Donner Hall is now avail
able for use to any dorm 
resident. Interested students 
should contact Frank Kern, 
X4059,232 Donner.
should say about CO, and that is that leg
ally under the 1947 Act as amended, one 
does not have to be a member of a recog
nized peace church or religious society 
[to be a CO]. One may be a CO upon 
sincere, moral view not connected with an 
organized religion.
KERR: The Supreme Court case on it is
Seger [vs. United States who] reached the 
Supreme Court on the very clear point 
that I am not a.Quaker, I am not a Jehovas witness, I am not a member of the 
church of the reverend, but I have reached 
this view on moral and philosophical 
grounds. The decision is there.
TARTAN: Youre saying that there is a
precedent?
BROCK: There will be CO, there always 
has been. But the tenor of what that 
means has changed throughout the years...I 
dont think there is any doubt that there 
will be the chance to declare yourself in an 
official way as a CO. How it was viewed 
during the Vietnam era depended on your 
local board...It was really a very individual 
concept.
TARTAN: Is there a statute that allows 
drafting now?
KERR: ...There is a statute that all you
have to do is set up the registration system 
but it has never been repealed.Its just that 
they quit registering.
BROCK: And quit drafting.
KERR: Yeah.
BROCK: There were a number of propo
sals last year. Those proposals were addi
tional laws, and some of them did not have 
CO.
TARTAN: Could they restart the draft
without new legislation, just reinstate the 
old law? Could they actually start induct
ing people without some act of Congress? 
KERR: No, its just registration.
BROCK: These bills that were introduced 
which would abolish any means of Consci
entious Objection, were I think almost all 
bills that, in some way, were connected 
with the National Service. So CO would 
not mean working in a VA hospital but 
would mean being in California picking 
lettuce, or some other kind of thing, along 
with hundreds of thousands of other 
people. Of the bills that would have start
ed the Selective Service up again...I dont 
think there are any that omitted CO. Its 
a complicated business with this National 
Service.
TARTAN: What about the possibility of a 
computerized, automatic registration? 
BROCK: As soon as they had the first call, 
youd be registered. You dont have to go 
to the post office, you dont have to go to 
your draft board. You just are instantly 
registered. Other proposals were to take 
things like drivers license records, high 
school records, and college records, then
instantly register you on the computer; 
that was Bennetts bill from Florida. In
stant registration: no mliss, no fuss. 
ONIEAL: The implications there
are that we would have for the first time in 
our history, a universal identification card 
carried by every citizen in the United 
States. It would be in effect a military identification card. , . maybe thats a bit 
loaded from my perspective. . .Every man 
and woman in the country, from that point 
on would be identified by that card.
KERR: The Privacy Act that we now have 
provided that no new uses of the Social 
Security number would be started; the rea
son for that was that the Social Security 
number was becoming an enormous intrus
ion on individuality and privacy. They 
would have to amend that if they were 
going to use the SS number, and I believe 
they desire to do so. All right, if they want 
to amend it, these questions of the costbenefit of this intrustion on privacy ought 
to be debated. . .
BROCK: There were specific amendments 
introduced to the Privacy Act last spring to 
make it possible to do all these things. 
They never made it to the floor.
KERR: Now then Jean, you were saying, 
What can people do today, we should 
have forums, and we should be informed. 
This may be a little far out, but because of 
the experience last time, Im very personal
ly conscious of what Tom brought up. 
That last time, the information was really 
disseminated and available to the upper, 
middle-class, white and well-to-do. An ad
verse result of that was the poor, the 
and the minorities went to Vietnam, in lar
ger proportions than their participation in 
the population. It was unfortuate that our 
consciences got raised to that late, or at 
least mine did. It seems to me one thing 
that we might do today, or that we might 
do in implementing any new registration, is 
the people of good will should seek ways 
in which that could be avoided. There 
should be a more equal application of 
ever is done, if anything. If theres going to 
be registration, how can it be more equal 
[among the] poor and rich, less literate 
and educated, than it was before. . . I 
think thats a moral requirement of those 
who are thinking about these things. 
WOLFENSTEIN: We had a meeting last
spring in which there was discussion about 
[registrations and reinactment of the 
draft], and I felt at that meeting the dis
cussion was too narrow. The discussion 
tended to be directed at each individuals 
personal problems, and not at what is 
really a national problem. The real prob
lem is that, as a nation, there is a move
ment lead by Carter to seek military 
or military answers to problems that 
simply arent military problems. That can
Planning to live off-campus?
Preventive Law Program 
Tenant Rights and Responsibilities
Wednesday February 6,1980 
12:00 Noon 
Lower Lounge Pitt Student Union
Carnegie-Mellon Students Invited
Sponsored by Pitt Union Program Council
w

---------------------------------------------------

February 5, 1980TARTANPage 7
viewing the world
have disasterous consequences for the 
whole country. I think that one shouldnt 
discuss it simply in terms of, How can Joe 
Smith get out of it? but rather How can 
this country get out of it alive? its not 
the question of how the individual student 
can somehow avoid the draft, but how this 
country can get out of the dilemmas of 
counting on the military to solve the prob
lems that arent military problems at all. 
[However] youve got somewhat of a mil
itary problem [becuase] the military is the 
largest single use of oil in this countryso 
its somewhat of a military problem . . . its 
clear that after you use too much oil, the 
problem isnt going to be solved by increas
ing the military budget.
KERR: I agree completely, and Id go 
further, right into your territory. This isnt 
only national, its worldwide and theres 
always the risk of atomic war if these 
things escalate Its a terrible avenue to 
choose... to even risk the possibility of 
starting down the alley when at the other 
end of the alley theres that possibility ... 
TARTAN: The students have to realize its 
not just their own individual problems. Its 
a question of keeping perspective.
KERR: Sure, I think somebody has to. 
KNOB LOCK: I think students right now 
are taking very personal views. A lot of the 
time they draw politics into it. They think 
that it's necessary at this point in time (to. 
say) I support President Carter because 
hes in trouble in Afghanistan, or because 
hes in trouble in Iran. Its very necessary 
that we at least appear unified ... Then 
once you get past that step, people again 
are taking a very personal view: What 
will registration mean for me? How will I 
get out of it? Again you get this terribly 
unrealistic view, that I will simply go to 
Canada. They wont bother me. Im not 
going to let them bother me. People really
have to give it the necessary thought: Are 
they eligible for CO status? If they are 
eligible, then for which status (assuming 
that its the same old status)? Are they 
opposed to combat status, or are they 
opposed to all forms of military service? 
ONIEAL: ... A lot of proponents of regis
tration will admit theres really no purpose 
in have registration unless you intend to 
induct. But more importantly, I think the 
language, or the symbols behind the 
%r languae that we hear now, is that the reg
istration is an insurance policy, of sorts, for 
our country. I think we need to examine 
that insurance policy  the Selective Serv
ice Act was an answer in 1940 to World 
War II which we continued throughout the 
Vietnam War. Is the draft or is registration 
or military solutions the way to deal with 
foreign policy problems? Are we willing to 
send young Americans to fight to try to 
defend very fragile oil fields (from a 
military standpoint theyre very fragile 
and difficult to defend) because were not 
willing to ration gas? Or because were not 
willing to energetically seek other solu
tions? Are we less willing to conserve our 
energy than we are to conserve the lives 
and freedoms of young people in this coun
try?
BROCK: It doesnt take but a moments 
thought to think about the tactical aspects 
of trying to capture a threatened oil field 
and keep it running. The problems are 
enormous of goingin, and trying to take a 
live oil field and keep it alive, and do that 
quickly. Theres ^ lot of discussion now 
about whether thats even possible to do. 
Theyre easy to destroy. It doesnt take 
many bombs to completely disrupt the 
entire flow of oil, in which case not a 
whole lot has been accomplished.
I think theres something else we need 
to think about that I havent heard menGreat Moments in the history of hair
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech. a 
Stone Age plumber, discovers a 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
drain on a routine aqueduct re
pair job. He calls the substance 
hair
"But we always thought this 
stuff was feathers", insists Kneg, 
his helper.
"Dummy", counters Blech. "If 
this was feathers, we'd be able to
fly like those pteradactyls".
With the discovery of hair, pluck
ing salons disappear. Philoso
phers have something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with. No 
appointments required. For gals 
and guys.
HAIRCUTS
(Wash-Cut-Blow)
1100
Mon. Tues. Wed. - 10-7 
Thurs. Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-4
& mi |j
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
COLORING
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office 
687-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMANENTS
25 00
NO
APPOINTMENTS
tioned, and that is, what would have hap
pened had we had registration in the last 6 
or 8 months. Weve had two or three global 
situations that have directly influenced a 
lot of peoples thinking about the posture 
of the United States  its strength vis-a-vis 
the rest of the world ...
We find out that there are a bunch of 
soldiers in Cuba. We determine that thats 
an unacceptable situation, and the easiest 
thing for the President to do to show just 
how determined he is, is to call up a couple 
hundred thousand people ... not send them 
anywhere ... just call them up... call up 
those couple hundred thousand people, 
who are going to probably be men and 
women, many of whom will be from 
college campuses, not send them anywhere, 
disrupt their education, completely ruin 
their career plans, do a whole lot of dis
turbing things to their individual lives, but 
show force.. Weve had three instances 
within just the last year where that could 
have easily been an imagined scenario had 
we had the old Selective Service system 
still in force: the Cuban thing, the Iran 
thing, and the Afghanistan thing. Its so 
easy to say, Well, we need people, well 
just call up a couple hundred thousand 
people. And theyll sit at some fort some
where and theyll type requisitions for two 
years, but it will be a great show of force 
for the rest of the world as to how com
mitted the United States is.
TARTAN: How can .you relate that to the 
argument that we have no effective foreign 
policy?
BROCK: Thats one of the weaknesses of 
having no effective foreign policy ... the 
potential political consequenses, as we get 
closer to a political year (I guess were in a 
political year) given that the President
would have that authority ... Im not sure 
that I want to get into a prolonged discus
sion of Carter and his weaknesses and his 
strengths.
TARTAN: Its important, though that 
people put things into perspective, and 
understand the motivation behind Carters 
recent, statements.
BROCK: I have an opinion. I think his per
sonal stand is obvious. Hes threatened 
with losing a very lucrative job. Hes been 
pictured as a weak President all along, and 
hes actively pursuing a course to convince 
the Democratic party, and the rest of the 
country, that hes as tough as the rest of 
them. Again, people need to be thinking 
about that kind of thing, and understand
ing the ramifications ... when a President 
rattles the saber, is it always right? 
WOLFENSTEIN: When its said that 
jacking up the military budget and increas
ing the army, strengthens the country 
you have to ask whether thats really true. 
Theres a very strong argument (which 
says) that it weakens the country because 
our problems are internal. Our internal 
problems are exacerbated by the inflation 
thats coming with this high military 
budget and by the division of research.
Our productivity is going down because 
our research is all going to the military and 
by the increased consumption of oil by the 
military. We dont strengthen the country. 
Failure to meet our internal problems is 
actually weakening our country ... 
TARTAN: How do you show the Russians 
that we will not tolerate their marching 
into Afghanistan, and running through 
Iran and eventually into the Persian Gulf? 
BROCK: Its not a simple question of what 
do we do now, because we did tolerate it 
continued on page 21
Electrical Engineering 
and
Computer Science Majors
San Francisco Bay Area Computer and Computerized 
Telephone Equipment Manufacturer seeks talented 
individuals interested in:
 Telephony
 Microprocessor Applications
 Digital and Analog Design
 CPU and Memory Design
 Real Time Systems Software
 Data Communications Software
 System Programming Languages
 Hardware/Software Interfacing
 Test Engineering
 Production Engineering
 Field Engineering
ROLM Corporation, located in Santa Clara. 
California, has grown 50 - 100% each year and 
currently has 2600 employees ROLM's Tele
communications Division is the leading indepen
dent supplier of computerized PBX's (CBX) and 
microprocessor controlled telephones. ROLM's 
Mil Spec Computer Division offers a complete 
line of rugged general purpose minicomputers
Included in ROLM's outstanding benefits 
package is a three month paid sabbatical after 
six years (and every seven years thereafter). 
Company paid tuition and time off for Graduate 
Study at Stanford, and flexible working hours
On Campus Interviews
Friday, Morch 14, 1980
Meet with Working Hardware and Software Engineers 
from ROLMin the Placement Center. See our Company 
Literature in the Placement Center.
It unable to attend an interview send resume to
Gibson Anderson 
Engineering Group Manager 
ROIM Corporation 
4900 Old Ironsides Drive 
Santa Clara. CA 95050
VVe are an equal opportunity/aMirmative action employer
1: 1.11 n 11 
CORPORATION

---------------------------------------------------

Official Entry Blank
Number of Photos entered_____
Name
Return, with your 
prints, to;
Skibo 50
$ Note: Please put your name, address J 
and the category on the back of each 
print. For your safety, place your Vj 
^ prints in an envelope.
Address !
Phon Nn
The Great 
TARTAN PHOTO CONTEST
The Prizes
There will be nine prizesfirst, second, and third place in each category, plus as 
many honorable mentions as the judges see fit. All winning photos will be published 
in a special insert of the March 11 TARTAN.
First place$25.00 cash 
Second place$10.00 cash 
Third place$5.00 cash
The Rules
The contest is open to all CMU students. Photos must be black and white (due to 
technical limitations) and may be any size from 3 x 4 to 11 x 14. There is no 
limit to the number of prints a person may enter. The deadline for entering prints is 
Tuesday March 4. The winners will be selected by the Photography Editors of the 
TARTAN and THISTLE on the basis of creativity, composition, and overall technical 
quality. All entries must be accompanied by the entry form below. Prints may be 
picked up at the TARTAN office after March 18. While we will be as careful as 
possible, the TARTAN will not be responsible for any lost or damaged photos.
The Categories
People, nature, and miscellaneous. All photographs submitted must be entered into 
one of the above categories.

---------------------------------------------------

February 5,1980TARTANPage 9
YOU'RE GRADUATING...WHATS NEXT?
Our prosrams cover a 
wide range: from our 
on-going committment 
| to national defense 
^ projects, to laser 
L fusion, from physics and bio-medical research 
to the develEL \ opment of 
A pollution
tel free 
energyof specific technical goaIs^^ multi-disciplinary team effort.
As an innovator in several diverse areas the laboratory offers you a unique career opportunity to continue learning where it really countsyour career. You will not only be given the freedom to grow in a challenging environment, but also the opportunity to explore areas of individual interest.
Lawrence Livermore Laboratory is located in California's Livermore Valley, a countryside setting with beautiful hills, natural waterways and vineyardsjust minutes away from the San Francisco Bay Area.
If youre a recent graduate with a basic or advanced degree in engineering, computer 
science or a computational discipline, see us on campus at your placement office, or 
contact us for more information about our many career opportunities by sending 
your resume to: Lawrence Livermore Laboratory, Attn: Employment Division, P.O. Box 
808, Dept. JCN, Livermore, CA 94550. U.S. citizenship required. An Equal Opportunity 
Employer M/F/H/V.
LOOK FOR US ON
February 12
| LAWRENCE LIVERMORE L A LABORATORY
We've got a future for you.
The following is a memo from Yvonne 
McCredie, Director of Student Services.
There has been an incredible increase 
in the number of students deciding to re
move immobilizers from their cars when 
they have been booted. This is a costly 
thing to do and results in disciplinary 
action.
An automobile is only booted when 
it has received three or more unpaid park
ing violations. An immobilizer is placed on 
the wheel and a yellow cardboard instruc
tion notice is attached to the drivers door.
The immobilization notice states the 
reason for the immobilization and the 
meth* ds of obtaining release:
1. Before 4:00 PM, go to the Cashiers 
Office.
2. After 4:00 PM, contact Security, 
Baker Hall 155.
The penalties for tampering with a 
boot or actually removing it are:
Improper use of University Property: 
If property is recovered undamaged, a fine 
of $25.
Theft of or Destruction of property 
plus a fine of not less than half such cost.
An immobilizer costs $300. As you can 
see, the student faces penalties ranging 
from $25 to $450 .
Registration causes reaction
continued from page 1
The changing nature of war and its techlology will not allow for any lengthy perod of time for national mobilization for a 
major conflict. Thus, the national security 
relies on the ability to mobilize our reserve 
forces from a peacetime citizen soldiers
Don't park!
(CPS)Charging that the university is im
properly acting like a court in barring 
him access to registration because he had 
not paid his campus parking tickets, Uni
versity of Texas junior Mark Spangler lost 
the first round of his battle to register for 
spring semester when a city court refused 
to hear his case last week.
Spangler owes $258 in tickets, but claims 
he was not notified of his obligation with
in the required *:en days. I am not con
testing the tickets, he says, I am pro
testing because the university denied me 
my 14th Amendment right to take the tic
kets to court.
He says hell take the case to the U.S. 
Supreme Court, if necessary.
status to a combat-ready status in a relat
ively short time.
The anti-draft movement had its most 
active week since the days of Vietnam 
this past week. On Thursday, scores of 
students turned out to demonstrate in op
position to the draft at the University of 
New Hampshire. Opponents of the draft 
vow more protests.
In Philadelphia, about 20 demonstrators 
burned two poster-sized military regis
tration cards, one for a man and one for a 
woman. Herb Ethel, a 20-year old staff 
member of the Philadelphia-based national 
peace group Mobilization for Survival,
burned his 1971 draft card. The group has 
issued a call for nationwide marches, 
and protests in opposition to draft registra
tion. Ethel says that demonstrations are 
slated to begin at noon on February 9.
Last Friday, a group of student leaders 
met with Carters aides. The move was an 
effort by Carter to determine what student 
leaders arount the country think about his 
plan to resume draft registration. Larry 
Fox, President of the University of Mary
land Student Government, said that the 
leaders couldnt really answer questions 
about what people would fighting for if 
the actual draft is resumed.
The TARTAN needs repor
ters and , ideas for a 
regular Science page. If 
you can contribute, attend
Wednesdays planning 
meeting at 5:15PM in 
Skibo 50.
ALONE AND PREGNANT?
A caring, confidential friend. 
LIFELINE, DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
562-0343. Free Pregnancy Testing. 
Evening Hours Available

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-TARTAN-February 5, 1980
Harris who?
Harris who developed and 
assembled twelve space-deployable antennas that will serve the 
sophisticated satellites of the 
TRW/ Western Union/NASA 
Tracking and Data Relay Satellite 
System (TDRSS).
Harris who developed the 
semiconductor industry's first 12- 
bit digital-to-analog converter.
More than 7,800 people are 
already contributing to state-ofthe-art projects like these at Harris 
in Florida.
Designing, producing and 
marketing in a professional envi
ronment that encourages and 
rewards contribution.
Participating in the world
wide growth of the communica
tion and information processing
industry.
Harris in Florida.The state-ofthe-art experience, //s i/our future!
Professional Staffing, Harris 
Systems Group Operations, PO. 
Box 37, Melbourne, Florida 32901
Systems Group
Designs, develops and manufac
tures high technology electronic 
equipment systems for a broad 
spectrum of industrial and 
government markets.
Analog Design 
Antenna Design 
Component Technology 
Digital Design 
Electromechanical Test 
Mechanical Structures Design 
R F Design
Write to:
R.B. Jones, Manager
Semiconductor Group
Designs, develops and manufac
tures a wide range of standard 
and custom IC's for both industrial 
and government markets.
Electrical Engineer 
Chemical Engineer 
Materials Engineer 
Physics Major 
Computer Science Major
Write to:
Manager, Professional Staffing, 
Harris Semiconductor, Box 883, 
Melbourne, Florida 32901.
COMMUNICATION AND 
INFORMATION PROCESSING
\n I jti.il t >ppirlimft I Mi I
Harris in Florida. The state-of-the-art experienceOn Campus. Soon.See Your Placement Office Today.
Students fight administration control of student fees
(CPS)Doug Tuthill, student govern
ment president at the University of Florida, 
chose a fittingly combative analogy. This, 
he said, is Round One of a 15-round fight. 
Tuthill  along with two other UF stu
dent leaders  was almost knocked out on 
December 5 when he lost a round in his 
lawsuit that would reassert student control 
over student fees. Florida Circuit Court 
Judge John Crews, himself a former UF 
student officer, ruled against the students.
\ REFORM SABBATH 
ATHILLEL
On Friday evening, Feb. 
| 8, there will be a specialI Sabbath for Reform 
| students. Our guest will 
 be Rabbi Richard 
1! Address, the regional 
director of UAHC. 
Services and dinner 
begin at 5:30. 
Reservations should be 
made in advance by 
calling Hillel 
at 621-8875.
Yet their battle is being fought all over 
the country now. Besides Florida, student 
officers in New York, Texas, Montana, 
Massachusetts and elsewhere have been 
busily fighting off administration at
tempts to take or preserve control over 
student fee monies.
Administrators, says Houston attorney 
Joseph Saranello, want to keep a tighter 
rein on student fees because money is 
scarce on campus these days, and the fees 
often represent the last available internal 
source of funds. The Florida fieht. for example, began last summer when UF 
President Robert Marston decided to re
allocate $179,000 in student activities 
money to the womens athletic program.
Saranello suspects that another reason 
student-administration fights over student 
fees are becoming more frequent is that
administrators are seeking to regain some 
of the control they lost to students during 
the more turbulent sixties and early seven
ties. Students  as administrators seem to 
perceive them  are apparently more con
servative and less assertive than their coun
terparts of several years ago. They would 
presumeably be less likely to offer resis
tance.
Saranello himself was suspended from 
Southwest Texas State University in 1969 
for working to insure students more input 
into university policy-making. Earlier this 
fall, he was the center of a similar contro
versy when two SWTSU student officers 
tried to use student fees to hire him as 
student government attorney.
The administration put the two offi
cers  President Roy Battles and Vice 
President Jon Hudson  on disciplinary
SUPER BOOK CLEARANCE
SALE
49<t to $4.99
f Paperbacks & Hard Covers 
Art, Drama, Gardening, Crafts 
Fiction, Photography
Values to $25.00
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5
emu bookstore 
probation for their troubles, and subse
quently banned posters supporting them 
from campus display. Hudson filed and 
then withdrew a retaliatory lawsuit. Hud
son reportedly is still contemplating legal 
action.
The severe disciplining of the officers 
could be attributed to the university feel
ing threatened by the students, Saranello 
adds. As a rule, the university would like 
to maintain as much power as it can. That 
includes power over the use of student 
fees.
Dorothy Bernholz, attorney for the stu
dent government at the University of 
North Carolina-Chapel, thinks the current 
skirmishing over student fees probably has 
more to do with the principle of control 
than the current tight state of university 
finances. When student governments use 
those fees to hire attorneys, the issue be
comes especially provocative for admin
istrators.
Universities, she says, are not really 
delighted with the idea of students hiring 
a lawyer. She speculates a major reason 
why the UNC administration allows the 
student government to spend $40,000 of 
its $600,000 budget on legal fees is that 
she is prohibited from participating in suits 
against the school.
Enough student groups have enough dif
ficulty devoting student fees to lawyers  
who, in turn, usually spend most of their 
time on landlordstudent tenant cases - 
that Burnholz is forming a new group, 
called the National Association of Student 
Attorneys.
Burnholz, who is president of the group, 
notes there is no definitive answer to the 
use of student fees on all campuses, that 
policy varies from state to state.

---------------------------------------------------

America's Youth: Are we going to ask, 'What about me, Uncle SamV
by Renee Rosenfetd
January 25, 1980, 10:28 EST, Doherty 
2210; the CMU Cinema. A large crowd 
restlessly awaits the end of the delayed 
8:00 showing. The movie this Friday 
night? HAIR On most Friday nights, 
the audiences reaction to the 1960s epic 
would have been mostly unemotional. 
Reaction to the film this Friday night was 
unavoidably personal. It hit close to home: 
two days prior to the showing of HAIR, 
President Carter called for a return to Draft 
Regif ration. When HAIR was released 
last spring, its social significance rested on 
the memory of Americas counter-culture 
of the last 1960s. Now, after nine short 
months, those days of burning draft cards 
are not quite so foreign.
Its reasonable to assume that talk about 
reinstating the Draft has reached the top of 
the Skibo Dinner Circle conversation 
list. Pick your favorite grapevine, the topic 
remains the same. Debate about the merits 
of the Draft and how to avoid it is alive.
What part of Canada do you like 
best?
Toronto, I have friends there; its a 
nice place.
Pulling the Draft off the shelf has kin
dled a flame of consciousness in Americas
. .days of burning 
draft cards are not 
quite so foreign ...'
youth. In April, last spring, several bills to 
return *he repealed Selective Service Act 
begar  blossom on Capital Hill. Through 
the jig, publicity began to build about 
new iws that would bring back the Draft 
for . les as well as females. Th Draft was 
a gruw ng concern to vouth, but would 
neve: reach top priority in the wake of 
Three Mile Island and anti-NUKE momen
tum. The Student for a Libertarian Soc
iety sponsored a poorly attended antiDraft rally on the steps of the Capital. The 
April 30th rally was mildly reminiscent of 
the last 60s, complete with pseudo-flower 
children and highlighted by an emotional 
speech by Ron Kovic, a paraplegic Vietnam 
veteran, and well-known opponent of the 
war.
Last springs Draft issue brought CMU 
political activists out of the closet, even as 
finals week approached. Several informa
tion sessions were held on campus. The 
CMU Student Senate witnessed its largest 
student body turnout in recent years, at a 
meeting where two Senators introduced a 
resolution calling for the Senate to publicly 
oppose the Draft. The Draft issue last
The draft brought 
CMU activists out 
of the closet.
spring is cited as tiie tirst taste ot organized 
student activism for CMU, since 1970.
Now, witli the Soviet invasion of Afgan
istan and Carters pledge to protect na
tional interest by defending the Persian 
Gulf Region, is the threat of the returning 
Dratt important enough to unite Americas 
youth? Are those who will potentially be 
called on to fight going to respond to Uncle 
Sam? Are the 80s going to begin like the 
70s, with college campuses buzzing with 
protest over the compromise of American 
lives?
The issues linked to the Draft ten years 
after Kent State are different. No longer 
will students oppose the Draft to end the 
war. Today the Draft issue has been 
molded into a dispute over the constitu
tionality of conscription. Opponents of 
mandatory military service see conscription 
as a contradiction to the constitutional 
right of personal liberty. In 1970, halting 
the Draft was synonomous with halting the 
war. In 1980, reinstatement of the Draft 
may give vitality to the dreaded Third 
World War.
Student reaction to the Draft has been
'A contradiction to 
the right of personal
liberty.'
mixed. Some factions oppose the Draft, 
asserting strong beliefs. Those who feel 
little or no opposition to the Draft express 
that they will go to war if need be. Most 
people are simply scared. Im not going 
to register, theyre going to have to find 
me, and Ill go, I think its the right 
thing to do.- I wont be jumping for joy, 
but Ill do it. are indicators of common 
sentiment.
The days of hawkish attitudes about 
asserting Americas supremacy seem to be 
vanishing as the aftertaste of Vietnam 
fades. In regard to the current crisis, Amer
ican citizens are finding greater justifica
tion for military action than existed 
during the Vietnam era. The gap between 
the polar extremes of opposition and sup
port is not so wide.
Justification for fighting a war in the 
Middle East is considerably easy to arrive 
at for some. While finding justification for 
fighting this war is likely, justification for 
drafting Americas youth to be killed in 
this war is nonetheless a major concern*.
Is the threat of the 
draft important 
enough to unite
youth?
Currently, America is not caught up in 
a war, like Vietnam, that simply makes 
no sense. If Soviet troops move into the 
Persian Gulf, then opposition to the 
Draft will rest on the value that Americas 
youth places in fighting World War III to 
protect vital oil resources.
Conscription is an imposition on your 
personal liberty by the Government, 
asserts Tom Kerr, GSIA Professor and 
Chairman of the Pennsylvania Chapter of 
the American Civil Liberties Union. In ad
dition, Kerr stresses the importance of con
tinually questioning the propositions that 
we live under, one of them is compul
sory registration for military service. 
Kerr was active in providing information 
about the Draft to the C-MU community 
last April. He recognizes that the Draft 
issue brought an awakening of political 
consciousness to C-MU. As for the issue 
today, Kerr feels assured that students 
will once again speak out because were 
going to do something to people 18-26. 
Professor Peter Stearns of the History 
Department alternately estimates: Its 
(opposition to the draft) not important 
enough. Stearns senses that many Ameri
cans will feel that the situation has changed 
since Vietnam and the original conflict
surrounding the Draft. This change in 
attitude, as he evaluates it, will give oppo
sition to the Draft no focus other than 
selfishness. Selfisliness he sees as a mo
tive stemming from differences in personal 
as well as class distinctions.
The Pittsburgh Committee Against 
Registration and the Draft (CARD) is 
headed by Tom Onieal. Last spring, 
ONieal was instrumental in making the 
Draft an issue to C-MU students. In Febru
ary 1980, ONieal feels that the issue is 
important enough to students to oppose 
the draft, but adds I dont think they 
know it yet. He sees students as sympa
thizing with the U.S. Government because 
the government is regarded as an under
dog in the existing crisis. OTMieal rests 
his claim on the identification that stu
dents feel with the 50 American hostages 
being held in Tehran. He defines the hos
tages as the primary concern, superceding 
the possible Soviet invasion of the Persian 
Gulf. If the hostages are released, the
students will feel released, says 0Nieal. 
According to 0Nieal, the Draft issue will 
become important enough for student 
opposition only when students feel the 
realities of war as opposed to the idealogical motivation of war.
It is evident that students on this cam
pus have given careful consideration to the 
question of the Draft. At this time, be
cause of seemingly sufficient justification 
for military action in the Middle East, 
opposition to the Draft does not appear 
strong enough to create a force that 
could influence government policy. The 
eruption of war, itself, will most likely 
provide the catalyst to opposition of the 
Draft by students. It may require months 
of television accounts to spur opposition. 
Undoubtedly, however, any resemblance of 
this war to the war in Vietnam will be 
cause enough for Americas youth to unite 
in response to Uncle Sam. As one C-MU 
student exclaimed, The colleges might 
just do it again like they did in the 60s.CMU registers views
by Kathy Krummert
It has been seven years since the signing 
of the Vietnam peace pact by the United 
States and the end of the draft; once again, 
Americans are faced with the possibility of 
registration and draft. Events in Iran, 
Afghanistan, and the Persian Gulf have led 
President Carter and others to believe 
that such steps are necessary. The draft 
will become a major concern on college 
campuses. Two weeks ago, two thousand 
Berkeley students demonstrated against 
registration revival. Today in the ballroom, 
The Draft Registration; A Discussion of 
Facts and Alternatives will be presented. 
Will student activism serve any purpose? 
Last week in Washington at the ASA 
National Convention, Oregon Senator Jim 
Weaver, Ralph Nader and the Director of 
the Selective Service Administration stated 
that the actions taken on college campuses 
in the next few weeks will largely determine 
what legislation is passed. If this is so, then 
now is the time for students and other 
eligible draft candidates to make themselves 
heard.
Registration, if renewed, will not be a 
voluntary matter. Neglect to register will 
result in a $10,000 fine and a five year 
federal jail sentence. Also, registration in 
the United States has always been followed 
by the draft. The two matters become one 
question: How do you feel about the 
registration and the draft?
A random sampling of CMU students 
shows that there is a wide range of opinions, 
some backed with logical reasoning, some 
based on emotion. Whatever the justifica
tion, feelings and attitudes are relevant 
and important. These are the people who 
will be subject to the registration if it is 
reinstated and the draft should it become a 
reality.
Most people who favored revival of 
registration felt it was a necessary step 
for a number of reasons: as a symbolic 
gesture of strength to show Russia and the 
rest of the world that we are serious, as a 
pragmatic approach to current events, as a 
duty as a citizen, and as a time-saving pre
liminary step should the draft follow; it 
would speed up the process. Some 
people felt there was no other choice in the 
situation we are in and that registration 
was one more step towards being drafted. 
Additional comments included: 
Actually, I think its necessary, but 
if 1 got drafted, Id be the first one to 
vacate.
-Registration doesnt mean there is 
going to be a draft, it just means that 
you can draft quickly.
Yes, its necessary if you have to
fight, but I dont know if we have to 
fight.
Yes, Id register if I had to, but I feel 
that there is something we [18-26 year 
olds] could do about it.
Those who answered no said they do 
not support registration (nor th draft) 
because they felt there was a lack of 
justification, that matters were not as bad 
as they are made out to be. One student 
said, I dont think that theyve given us 
concrete reasons ... I dont really under
stand ... I dont really believe weve been 
well informed about the situation. Some 
felt that college students should not have 
to go to war: I didnt go to school for 6 
years to get shot. I cant see sending 
college students in which youve invested 
$8,000 a year to go to school ... its just 
a total waste of time, money, effort . . . 
Every life that you send to war is wasted. 
Some students answer very simply: Im 
scared and I dont want to go. Most 
have not been faced with this issue before. 
War has always been over there whether 
the United States was involved or not. Now 
with the dominance of nuclear weaponry 
and advanced military techniques, our 
homeland might be threatened. Nor have 
most, if any, been faced with draft and war 
personally. Older relatives, other people 
went, but now it is me and my friends. 
One student replied that logically, she 
supported the draft for both men and 
women, but if she were drafted, evasion or 
pregnancy would serve as ways out; she 
could not deal with it on a personal level.
One observation was that young 
people are very cautious now because of 
Vietnam; its harder to go somewhere else 
and fight in some other country far away 
. . . but if it were in our own country,
I think people would stand up for what 
they thought was right.
One student felt that we owe it to our
selves  our fathers fought for us ... I 
think we should stand up for our country 
so that our children can have all the bene
fits weve had. I think we take a lot of 
things for granted.
And what is a womens role in this? 
All but two questioned felt that there was 
indeed a place for women in war (but not 
combat), and that women, too, should be 
drafted, if only in fairness to men. One girl 
said she didnt feel it was fair that shed 
sit here while he was over there if male 
friends were drafted.
In many countries, the draft and mili
tary service are an assumed part of a citi
zen s life  but not in America. Military 
service has always been optional except in 
wartime - but maybe not in 1980.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-TARTAN-February 5,1980
This week's Gallery: 'more than just illustrations'
by Annie Patterson
Are we really going to find four funny, 
frollicking and fat illustrators at this weeks 
Forbes St. Gallery opening? Well, just 
maybe Goetz, Kiley, Molnar, and Utzig 
are really as fat as their posters suggest, 
but I have a sneaky feeling were in store 
for much less than four fatsos and much 
more than just illustrations. Although 
each of them are fine illustrators, they also 
have many other artistic interests. This 
weeks show is definitely one of the most 
varied yet!
Kris Goetz is showing her illustrations, 
paintings, and drawings. Among her latest 
pieces are charcoal drawings of stuffed
pillows. She brings the pillows to life by 
capturing an animated character in them. 
Theres a bit of her own personality in all 
the work she does. Each piece has a 
Goetz quality that is comfortable and 
yet exciting. She swiftly manuevers the 
mediums and brings to life a true under
standing of the figure.
Bob Kiley has mostly charcoal figure 
drawings and some illustrations on display. 
His crazy personality is subdued and 
hidden behind these figure studies. There 
is a quietness in the finished areas of the 
drawings, yet he puts a very bold emphasis 
on gesture. Where his illustrations are con
cerned Kiley notes that **it*s an awsome
responsibility being better than Mark 
English. His work has no particular 
message. As with his illustrations Kiley says 
to take them at face value. According to 
the artist, Kileys philosophy on life is 
quite simple; Art is life and anyone who 
thinks otherwise is a kook.
Louise Molnar is showing illustrations, 
lithographic prints, and there is a slide pre
sentation on Variations in an image. But 
the artists true love is animation. Molnar 
says, Im happy with the way I see 
things. All her pieces have a sensual, flow
ing movement to them. Molnar is interest
ed in being versatile - using many 
mediums. Color, graphic impact and
movement are what she strives for in her 
images.
Sue Utzigs work is about as varied as 
you can get. She is presenting illustrations, 
drawings, paintings, a weaving, metalcrafts, 
and bookbindings. Utzig works with images 
of the sea. The subject lends itself to her 
delicate and meditative approach in each 
medium. This is an artist who captures a 
different aspect of her personality in each 
medium she chooses.
Goetz, Kiley, Molnar, and Utzig are 
each presented to us as illustrators, 
however the work on display at the Forbes 
St. Gallery this week shows much more 
than illustrations.
Wangs representatives will be on campus on February 6, 1980. To arrange an interview register with the Placement Office. If the schedule is full please call Lois Reibstein,
collect at (617) 459-7245 or send her your resume as soon as possible at Wang Laboratories, One Industrial Avenue, Lowell, MA 01851. We are an affirmative action employer.
IIINIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIilHilllllllllllllllllllllltlllHIIHUIIIIIIIiNIIHimilllllllllllllllllllHtlimiHIHIU
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKI BO 40A
Making the world mora productive.
Taking a job with a big 
computer company can be 
the first step toward obli
vion. As a beginner, its 
easy to get pigeon-holed or 
lost in the crowd.
At Wang, however, 
youll get a chance to be a 
stand-out from the start. 
Its not that we re a small
company (last year we 
sold over $400 million 
worth of word processing 
and computer equipment). 
The point is, we think 
new blood and young 
ideas are as vital as ex
perience.
We also believe in
minimizing paperwork 
and bureaucracy, and in 
giving everybody the 
chance to see his or her 
ideas turn into products.
In addition, well give you 
plenty of opportunities for 
advancement in whichever 
career path you chose
-technical or management.
If youd like to work in 
a company where your 
success depends on your 
own energy, brains and 
ingenuity, Wang could be 
just what youre looking 
for. 
And vice-versa.
How to work in the computer industry without becominga statistic.

---------------------------------------------------

February 5,1980TARTAN Page 13
Spring Carnival presents NYC
by Tennyson Bardwell
About the middle of every April the 
perplexing question, to study or not to 
study stirs with a bit more force than 
usual. Spring fever presents a tough case, 
and once a year even CMU admits this fact 
with its traditional Spring Carnival. 
This Aprils 17-19 affair promises to be a 
great success due to creative planning and 
tight organization.
The thirty-odd booths sponsored and 
run by the various fraternities, sororities, 
and independent groups will all follow 
some aspect of the common theme, New 
York City. This is a clever choice, since 
the selection of topics are so endless and 
diversified while also being instantly famil
iar to everyone. Many a theme sounds 
perfect in the whole, yet when broken 
into sub-parts, it rapidly runs thin.
This year, without question, the theme 
will be consistent throughout the booths; a 
few of which will be: The World Trade 
Center with King Kong, Broadway, 
Yankee Stadium, the N.Y. Times, the 
N.Y. Stock Exchange, Saturday Night 
Live, The N.Y. Blackout, the Statue 
of Liberty and the citys police station.
In addition to the booths, the carnival 
rides will be back again featuring that ride 
of rides to steal your stomach away, The 
Enterprise.
More attractions still will be found in 
The Tent, which this year will present: 
a Gong Show, student talent show with 
professional comedians, and a Cabaret. For 
the first time ever in its history, this years 
Carnival will be formally opened and 
closed, beginning with a ribbon cutting 
on Thursday and ending with an awards 
presentation at Saturday nights Cabaret.
Spring Fever
by Tennyson Bardwell
So come mid-April 
When you cant even think,
Put down the books 
And pick up a drink.
Throw aside pens
And the paper youre drafting.
Forget your professor 
With his doctorate in shafting.
See the sights.
Chuck being down.
New Yorks coming to Title Town.1
T.HART.
/
\
mm
Whos Hughes?
First to develop a synchronous-orbit satellite, Syncom, 
initiating the whole era of space communications.
First In high-technology electronics.
Your first employer after graduation, perhaps! Before 
graduation, ask your placement office when Hughes 
Aircraft Company's recruiters will be on campus.
HUGHES
------------------1Creating a new world with electronics
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F
DUQUESNE UNIVERSITY UNION
presents
the most exciting musical event to take place in Pittsburgh
ART BLAKEY
and the Jazz Messenger?
with
SONNY FORTUNE
and the Fortune Quartet
Don't miss the artists who make JAZZ swing!
Wednesday, February 20 8:30 p.m. 
Duquesne Union Ballroom
Tickets $5 with student I.D./$6 without
Call 434-6640
"RETURN FROM EGYPT: 
DESCRIPTION OF A RECENT 
STUD Y EXHIBITION"
-
-THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 7 
12:30 PM 
WHERRETT ROOM
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning
iT ** ** ** ******** * * ****** i

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN 
staffers 
put out
4>$k /<, %??
PEB.12,13,14
in /quirrel hill 5884 forbc/oueLOU PETRODE
boutique
coiffure/
L_____
Architecture student has winning entry
by Stuart I. Seidman
With the recent friendship between the 
United States and Egyptian governments, 
new opportunities have developed for 
cooperation in solving the drastic housing 
shortage near Cairo. A major project will 
be the development of a new town at 
Helwan, a suburb of Cairo, and CMUstudents will have a role in its creation.
When the Agency for International 
Development of the U.S. State Department 
(U.S.A.I.D.) agreed to fund half of the 
cost of this new town, they brought in the 
Foundation for Cooperative Housing (F.C. 
H.) to administer the project. After the 
F.C.H. had put together a manual of 
building guidelines, they felt it desirable 
to have architects test the guidelines. That 
is where the CMU connection begins.
Eighteen months ago the F.CTL con
tacted Louis Sauer, who helped work out 
the Final details of organizing a student 
competition.
The competition was run last fall as 
part of Omar Akins Level III design 
studio. The program was to take the F.C.H. 
building guidelines and develop a design 
that theoretically could be built. This was 
one of the most unusual projects the 
students had ever come across, their task 
being to design a housing project for 
Egypts poor. The idea was to create a 
framework in which the people would 
be able to build their own houses, and 
then expand them as income allowed.
While this might sound simple, from an 
architects vantage point it is quite diffi
cult. The way we ordinarily design is to 
maximize control of the design, Sauer 
explained. The problem that the students 
faced was to determine how little was
needed to be designed and built by
F.C.H. and what the residents would be
able to do themselves. The term for this is 
self help housing.
When the students came back from their 
winter break a jury was held to determine 
the winner of the competition. The jury 
members were all familiar with the scope 
of the project. Along with Omar Akin and 
Louis Sauer of CMU there was Mona 
Serageldin of Nash-Vigier Associates, a 
Boston consulting firm and Juan A.
Casasco of the Foundation for Cooperative 
Housing.
After several hours of reviewing the 
entries tltf project designed by Greg
slrf: ; 
gr lU.
This award-winning project was designed by Greg Clawson, a junior in architecture. The object was 
to develop a flexible housing project for Egypt's poor.
Clawson was awarded the $200 first prize. 
Other awards included second place to 
Paul DeCourt, third place to William 
Walker, and honorable mentions to 
Robert Bailey and Stuart Suna.
Clawson, a third year student, felt that 
One of the biggest problems was adapting 
to another culture. Having these cliches 
in our head which we absorb from our 
present culture prevent us from getting 
to the heart of the problem, Akin 
elaborated.
From deciding where to locate a 
mosque' to how the plumbing distribution 
would work there were endless details for 
the students to be concerned with. The 
student must do better than simply flex
ing his playful muscles, Akin said.
It was felt by the people involved with
the class that this was a valuable opportu
nity to design a project with real world 
implications. Sauer explained that, in 
America, architects and planners tend to 
impress middle class values upon our 
poor. We have to be taken outside our 
culture to be able to understand better, 
Sauer said, in explaining how we in the 
United States have no real low income 
housing policy.
While the students and faculty encoun
tered maay hurdles during the project it 
was felt that it was Worth the effort. As 
Clawson said, It brought you down to 
Earth. Now that the competition is 
concluded the students will be receiving 
a Final thrill when they see the winning 
entries published in an upcoming bulletin 
of the U.S.A.l.D. and in journals.
Bank honored for his work
Arnold Bank, internationally known
calligrapher and professor of design at 
Carnegie-Mellon University, is being 
honored for his work by the Society of 
Scribes on Saturday, February 2, at 
Columbia University in New York City.
The Society is inviting friends and 
former students of Bank to reflect on the 
spirit and import of his career in the
graphic arts. An exhibit of his work will 
also be on view. This is the first in a 
series sponsored by the Society to honor 
outstanding calligraphers and teachers of 
the art in our time, according to Lili
Wronker, one of the founders of the
Society. The event is also intended to 
provide a growing and enthusiastic genera
tion of young calligraphiles with the
opportunity to become more familiar 
with the work of this illustrious teacher 
of ime art and craft lettering.
Last year Bank was awarded the pres
tigious Type Directors Club Medal in recog
nition in his outstanding contributions to 
excellence in printing and typography. His 
accomplishments cover a wide range, 
from numerous applications in printing to 
architectural inscriptions, monuments and 
plaques.
The reception for Bank will be held 
in Room 523 of Butler Library on the 
Columbia University campus, 116th Street 
and Broadway, from 1 to 4 PM. His work 
will be on display in the first floor 
rotunda of the library.
PUT YOUR SCIENTIFIC OR ENGINEERING DEGREE TO WORK
If youre a degree candidate who would like 
to embark on a future-oriented scientific or 
engineering career, then consider the United 
States Air Force. Its one of the finest oppor
tunities in the nation.
Completion of our three-month Officer 
Training School nets you an officers com
mission and launches you into a career 
thats gearedior tomorrow. Our equipment 
is among the finest, our working condi
tions are excellent, and our benefits pack
age unmatched. Find out about a space 
age service from your nearest Air Force 
recruiter. fR. 8R48lcL
6442705imm.
A great way of Me

---------------------------------------------------

Aerosmith brings high energy, low quality rock to Arena
by Charly Rhoades
It was a relatively full house at the Civic 
Arena on the 24th of January as thousands 
of pre-pubescent girls led the rush to see 
Aerosmith and a special guest.
The special guest turned out to be a 
local band called rather uncommercially 
The Motherfuckers. The only thing 
that intrigued me about them was their 
name. Consisting of two lead singers 
(male and female), a guitarist, bassist, 
drummer, and a keyboard player, the band 
played about six songs, each of which was 
characterized with unimaginative musician
ship and standard commercial solo-work.
After the expected 30 minute set 
change, the main event, Aerosmith, openedup slightly before 9:00 prefaced with 
screaming, scraping, (mildly annoying) 
sirens accompanied with rotating lights. 
The five member (plus a guest keyboardist) 
opened up with one of their best studio 
efforts, the classic Back in the Saddle. 
The live perfomance did not quite meet the 
earlier version but it was passable. The 
next song featured the new guitarist, 
Jimmy Crespo, replacing the well-known 
Joe Perry who, reportedly disgruntled with 
the group, left. Crespo doubled with lead 
singer Steve Tyler in vocals throughout 
the night, but it was soon evident that 
Tylers famed razor-sharp vocals were 
being enhanced electronically, with an 
echo chamber for his high shrieking small 
solo before he stuffed the instrument in 
his pants and started Big Ten Inch 
Record. Crespo and fellow guitarist Brad 
Whitford alternated solos which were 
rather poorly mixed.
The new album Night in the Ruts, was 
represented by Three Mile Smile, a 
standard Aerosmith rocker with a sparse 
guitar solo by Crespo. This sparseness 
carried over to the next song where 
Crespos style fit in with the basic Aero
smith format, without the basic blues 
quality that sometimes works into this 
bands music. Here Tyler gave the audby Timothy LeVan
The Pittsburgh Opera has opened its 
third production of this season with 
Mozarts Don Giovanni.
Musically, the opera was mostly pleasing, 
and presented a basically accurate inter
pretation of the score. The opera fell short 
however with its staging and set design.
Clarice Carson (Donna Anna) treated 
the audience with the best singing of the 
entire opera. Her clear-cut, accurate sing
ing was very appropriate for this Mozart 
opera, and created per haps the most ideal 
singing for the style.
Ms. Carsons, superb mezzo-quality 
added much intensity and expression to 
her character. Her knowledge of her voice, 
and use of it, also added to the character.
Dramatically, Ms. Carson was the most 
pleasing as well. Always in complete control 
of the character, Ms. Carson is a fine ex
ample of the opera as theatre school.
Jacque Trussel (Don Ottavio) also ex
emplified vocal beauty throughout the 
opera, although mostly noted in his arias, 
Dalla sua pace, and II mio tesoro 
intanto. The lyrical line and emotional 
content of both arias suited Mr. Trussels 
voice very well.
Samuel Ramey (Don Giovanni) contri
buted a passable Don, but one which lacked 
the true lover, libertine, deceptive nature 
which comprise a fully developed Don.
Steven Alexus Williams (The Command
atore) gave a fine entrance and then, sadly, 
was not seen again. Mr Williams sang his 
last scene well, although we did not see 
him. This production chose to stage the 
last scene (of Don wrestling and finally
ience another sample of harmonicaplaying, which provided a deserved break 
in the sometimes repetitive guitar-work 
centering on Crespo. Crespo was again the 
highlighted soloist in another new tune, 
Coney Island Woman, where he per
formed rather comfortably although not 
very excitingly. Equally unexciting was 
the drum fill on a surprisingly sparse drum 
set which led into Walk this Way.
Meanwhile, Tylers vocals were in need 
of more extensive enhancing as the band 
went into Walkin in the Sand. Tyler 
should have stayed out. The song was too 
long, with boring solo-work that just re
hashed worn out riffs that I couldnt find 
any musical skill.
On Toys in the Attic, the last song 
of the set, Tyler pulled and tugged at his 
skin-tight pants, trying to elicit passionate 
cries from his groupies. He reinforced his 
obvious self-image as a stud while squat
ting on his mike stand, leaving the mike to 
hang towards his ever-reaching audience. 
Musically the song was consistent with the 
general tone of the concert: disappointing. 
A rather good studio cut, Crespo degraded 
it with an essay in unartful feedback 
attempt.
After 3 or 4 minutes of screaming fans, 
the band came out to do Come Together 
their autopsy on the Beatles original. 
Tyler was immaculately non-musical and 
merely screamed out the lyrics in an 
unintelligible growl while holding his lank 
body teasingly to the groping teenaged 
animals. He continued his back-to-back 
physical contact with Crespo, who did an 
unexpectedly good job at a solo even 
though Tylers arm was wrapped around 
him and, at times, around Crespos guitar.
The band left..with their rendition of 
Train Kept ARollin  and did a credible 
job at producing it. Whitford and Crespos 
beginning fills were good and suprisingly 
enough, Tylers vocals were a little more 
comfortable, as the second back-drop, one 
of a train bearing the Aerosmith legend on
acquiescing to The Commandatore) without 
the presence of The Commandatore.This 
was most disappointing, as one of the most 
powerful scenes in the opera can be this ex
tended fight.
Claude Corbeil (Leporello) gave an 
amusing performance containing occasional 
humorous gestures and vocal antics.
Sheri Greenawalt and Tom Fox (Zerlina 
and Masetto) played a convincing and aptly 
naive couple.
Marianna Christos (Donna Elvira) offered 
a vocally uncontrolled performance. Ms. 
Christos sounded simply old vocally and 
did not precisely follow the score note for 
note. The role of Donna Elvira requires a 
large, forceful voice, yet one with flexibelity. In this way, the role is most challeng
ing.
The orchestra played very well and 
correctly, although at times it had trouble 
keeping with the singers due to Theo 
Alcantaras (the conductor) inability to 
successfully hold ensemble numbers 
together. The two string quartets used on 
stage were equally unsuccessful in staying 
with the conductor. With three orchestras 
and numerous singers, a strong conductor 
is needed to maintain order.
The same set was used throughout the 
entire opera, with only minor additions 
and subtractions. This was fine for Act I, 
but a change would have been welcome for 
Act II.
As a whole, this production of Don 
Giovanni was not totally up to par, but was 
a fine attempt for such a vocally and 
theatrically difficult work.
it, fell into place. Staging finally came into 
being after a hibernation during the con
cert as it was obvious that this would 
be the last song and the group wanted to 
leave a good impression on the impression
able audience. The guitarists responded, 
and gave a suprising show of talent as 
Whitford executed a rather mind-bending 
solo and Crespo capped it off with another, 
better, exercise in feedback manipulation. 
The fact that the shebang was coming to
by Melody Mazzie
The task of adapting a 700-page novel 
into a three and one half hour play is 
difficult. What is more difficult is making 
the adapatation work. Leon Katz, play
wright and Professor of Drama at the 
University of Pittsburgh, has constructed 
an adaptation of Dostoyevskys The 
Possessed that not only works, but works 
well.
The Pittsburgh Laboratory theatre 
opened their production of The Possessed 
on January 24. It is based on a hauntingly 
intense novel that actually predicted the 
1917 Russian Revolution. The Lab 
Theatre does an excellent job portraying 
the psychological anguish of the chara
cters that is so prevalent in Dostoyevskys 
works.
Though the play is several hours long, 
(there are three intermissions), the time 
passes quickly. This is due, in part, to the 
frequent scene changes within each act. It 
is also due to the absolutely captivating 
performances of the cast members.
David Crawford portrays Nicholas 
Stavrogin, the main character of the play. 
Stavrogin is a faithless revolutionary whose 
ability to draw people to him is frighten
ing. Crawford, faced with the need to conCMUs Music and Drama Departments 
will present the musical, Brigadoon Feb
ruary 716, 1980 in the Kresge Theater in 
the Fine Arts Building on the CMU cam
pus.
The show is being presented in light of 
the current Broadway revival of the first 
generation of American musicals, Brig
adoon, first appearing in March, 1947, 
received highly favorable reviews and was 
described by Howard Barnes of the N.Y. 
Herald Tribune as a musical fantasy of 
rare delight ...a jubilant and brilliantly 
integrated show. CMUs cast and crew 
hopes to recapture the original charm and 
artistic presence of the play.
The plot centers around two hunters 
from New York City, who, while lost in 
Scotland, discover the legendary awaken
ing village of Brigadoon.
. The original credits for the play go to
an end was drawn home as Tyler finally 
calmed down and actually relinquished the 
lime-light and sat down near the speakers, 
his head on his chest in a mass of hair, and 
cradling his ever-present security blanket, 
mike, between his legs.
In conclusion, a rather disappointing 
concert considering the potential of the 
band. The fans got what they wanted, a 
night of high energy rock.
vince the audience of this power, handles 
the role superbly. His stature and strong 
voice alone command quite a stage pre
sence.
Bingo OMalley portrays Stavrogins 
former teacher, Stepan. OMalley gives a 
very touching performance as an old man 
who has no foothold in the changing Russ
ian society.
Stepans ruthless son Peter is played by 
Kevin Cotter. Cotter must be praised for 
his portrayal, for he makes himself as 
utterly vile and despicable as a villain 
can possibly be.
There are many other performances that 
are outstanding too many, in fact, to 
mention in one review. The Pittsburgh Lab
oratory Theatre is, in this reviewers opin
ion, unsurpassable in the quality of their 
work.
Michelle Di Bucci, a music major at 
CMU, composed the score for the play.
The Pittsburgh Labortory Theatre has 
moved to the Theatre Downstairs of the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse. The Possessed will 
continue to run through February 24. 
Due to limited seating, it is suggested that 
reservations be made in advance by calling 
621 -4445. If there is one play that is worth 
a special effort to attend, this is it.
Alan Jay Lerner, lyricist and author and 
Frederick Lowe, composer. The CMU 
production presents Gregory Lehane, stage 
director; Robert Page, music director; and 
Myron Nadel, choreographer. CMU stuents to star in the production are Gregg 
Kirsoppy as Tommy; Carol Burt as Fiona, 
Fred Tietz as Jeff; Molly McCloskey as 
Meg; Rick Marchisio as Charlie; and Sue 
Burkhimer as Jean. Among the popular 
songs are Heather on the Hill and 
Almost Like Being in Love
There will be eleven performances; 
the Saturday matinee performances are at 
2:00 PM and cost $5.00. Weekday evening 
performances will be at 8:20 PM at the 
price of $5.00, and weekend evening per
formances will start at 8:20 PM costing 
$6.50. Ticket information and reservations 
are available from the CMU Box Office 
;S 78-2407).
Don Giovanni opens at Opera
The Possessed ranks on top
Kevin Cotter (Peter) and David Crawford (Stavrogin) in The Possessed
Brigadoon presented by CMU

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16TARTANFebruary 5, 1980
B. B. King to appear with Bobby 'Blue' Band at Stanley
by Ted Smits
With the emergence of blues based rock 
and roll as the dominant musical force in 
the late 1960s many of the original, 
influential American blues artists started to 
attract a larger and more diverse audience 
as the proverbial White Punks On Dope 
discovered that the blues had been around 
a lot longer than they knew. One of the 
artists who benefited from this rise in pop
ularity was B.B. King. The Dynamic 
Gentleman of the Blues had for twenty 
years worked the bars and clubs of Amer
ica. In 1954 alone he played 342 onenight shows. In 1969 he was playing to a 
sold out Fillmore auditorium in San 
Francisco in what many called his debut 
concert. In the last eleven years B.B. King 
has continued to tour the U.S. (to ever 
growing audiences), and he has brought the 
blues to many other countries, including 
the USSR. On February 8 and 9, B.B. King 
and Bobby Blue Bland will appear 
at the Stanley Theatre.
B.B. King started to work at a Memphis, 
Tennesee radio station during his teenage 
years, and it was here that he received his 
famous double initial nickname. After a 
stint as a disc jockey, King began to play 
the blues. In 1949 he released his first hit 
record, Three 0Clock Blues. In the next 
twenty years he would have a string of hits 
that would place him at the top of the 
blues world. Throughout the fifties, King 
had played to the black, traditional blues 
markets. Then in 1969 he recorded an 
album with white rock musicians. The 
album contained one of his greatest hits 
The Thrill Is Gone, and brought King his 
greatest commercial success. The use of 
strings in a pure blues setting was a radical, 
innovative move that helped distinguish 
Kings music from that of his contempo
raries.
King had always been original and inno
vative in regards to his music. He was one
Bobby "Blue" Bland and B. B. King
effects that could be obtained through 
string bending, and his unique lead guitar 
style was'copied by thousands of blues and 
rock guitarists. Last years excellent shows 
at the Stanley Theatre was a fine evening 
of the blues and the two nights this year 
should be just as good.
Joining B.B. King will be blues singer 
Bobby Blue Bland. Blands career began 
in 1950, and in the last thirty years he had 
a number of hits as he rose to the top of 
of the first guitarists to fully explore the the blues world. A crowd favorite, Blands
personality and entertaining blues singing 
is a perfect compliment to B.B. Kings 
show. King, in fact, was a member of 
Bobby Blue Blands first group, the 
Beale Streeters. The music of this group 
has been defined as the seed for modern 
rliythm and blues. Now, thirty years after 
the breakup of that group King and Bland 
are still going strong. I recommend check
ing out the show for some real blues music 
from two of the masters.
Swank holds photo exhibit at Institute
Luke Swank: Photographs, an exhibi
tion of more than 60 black-and-white 
photographs by the Pennsylvania photo
grapher will be on view at the Museum of 
Art, Carnegie Institute from February 5 
through March 9, 1980.
Employed by the University of Pitts
burgh as its official photographer, Luke
Swank developed the first college-level 
courses in photojournalism. Swank was 
also associated for many years with the 
HJ. Heinz Company, where his color and 
black-and-white works for company cook
books were widely admired.
According to Robert Doherty, former 
director of the International Museum of
Photography, Swanks work recognized 
during its own time, got lost in the shuffle 
of the post-war period. It is of consider
able merit, and should be seen.
The exhibition is made possible by 
grants from the Howard W. Heinz Endow
ment and the Pennsylvania Council on 
the Arts.
THE FREECOLLEGERING
(seriously)
HERES HOW:
TRADE IN
a marts gotd High School ring 
(limit onj per sale)
CHOOSE
any Siladium  class ring 
(Siladium is a fine quality jewelers 
alloy guaranteed for a lifetime )
SAVE
on a new gold College ring 
with the trade-in of a man s 
gold High Schoof ring
ORDER NOW
Date: February 6, 7, 8. 
Wednesday, Thursday 
and Friday.
Place: Baker Hall
 c-mu bookstore TQKVED^COLLEGE RINGS
Symbolizing your ability to achieve.
H&SS
Brown Bag Colloquium
presents
itImmigration and Adaptation: 
Blacks, Poles, and Italians 
in Pittsburgh, 1900-1930"
Dr. Michael Weber, Department of History
Thursday, February 7,1980 
12:30 pm 
H&SS Lounge 254C BH
Co-Sponsored by H&SS Dean's Office, H&SS SAC, 
and Faculty Organization
1,960 ArtC*rvi Class i

---------------------------------------------------

February 5, 1980TARTANPage 17
%
Forbes show proves that design is a form of art
by Alex Czajkowski butions from all three of the artists, was by Fram. Simple in color, but detailed Piece of my favorite sculpture. Th
Art ic that u/ViifVi rpnniroe tVi< la\r _______- _____________________________________________________________________it-- j._____ a _ a- uroc nf tnnnpl H iKprtu I KaIip
by Alex Czajkowski
Art is that which requires imagination, 
creativity, and orginality to conceive and 
immeasurable talent to produce. Often, 
people lacking one or more of these quali
ties are erroneously referred to as artis
tic, when in fact they are little more than 
good mimics. Many other people, though, 
do have these attributes but are rarely 
called artists. Instead, they are hidden 
beneath technical titles, such as mathema
ticians, physicists, or as in this case, In
dustrial Designer or Graphic Designers. 
Last week the Forbes Street Gallery had 
three such designers: Clark, Fram, and 
Graham.
Not only were the works of these three 
artists professional, but even the arrange
ment of the gallery was exceptional. The 
main part of the gallery was divided into 
four sections on the wall, some overlap
ping, all color-coded. Aside from the 
Form section, each section was com
prised of examples of each artists pro
jects. Furthermore, each artist exhibited 
various stages of the works production, 
thus giving special insight to the artists 
personal side for the viewer.
In the Color section of the gallery 
were examples of FramV and Grahams 
exercises in color. While both, of their 
exercises were interesting, Clark rightly 
dominated this section of the wall with 
her pieces. Of the three projects she had 
here, her Booklet Cover was the best, 
using the jagged-edged colors that she 
had experimented within her Poster 
project. These jagged-edged colors were 
highly reminiscent of the works by Still, 
however, Clarks were much brighter and 
used in a totally different context. The 
posters and booklet covers logically led 
into the Typographic section.
This section, again made up of contri
butions from all three of the artists, was 
the least interesting. Variations in print 
size and type, as well as arrangement, 
certainly have great importance in their 
use, but the display was less than fascinat
ing.
Around a column in the gallery was a 
short section entitled Imagery. On one 
side Fram had an advertisement for a trip 
to the Big Apple, in which the copy 
represented the skyline of New York. In 
another project, this one for the CMU 
Alumni Association, she again relies on a 
skyline, but on a grander scale, that of the 
entire United States, lengthwise. Another 
of Frams recurring motifs is simple-line 
landscape, and Environment having the 
jwhole rage of variant environments illus
trated within the word. This simple 
word-study is one of the shows high
lights.
Speaking of highlights, the Industrial 
Designer of the group, Graham, was 
the sole exhibitor in the section called 
Form. The entire section was amazing; 
it consisted of: 1) her assignment, 2) her 
original sketches, 3) her final drawings, 
and 4) a physical model. These four stages 
were done for five of her projects which 
included a modular light source, a stepladder cabinet, an electronic, digital bicycle 
speedometer, cabinet handles, and the 
show-stealer, a small, compressible, modu
lar clock. Each model was very profession
ally done, and all fulfilled the initial re
quirements perfectly. Opening night, the 
clock was definitely the talked about item.
However, there was still the back room, 
in which the true Best of show pieces 
were. This room was the showplace for the 
artists spontaneous works and those 
were my favorites. Upon the wall was a 
wood-cut and an example of a print made 
from it, it was called Enchanted Woods
by Fram. Simple in color, but detailed 
in design, it alone shows the true artist 
in her, and is an execptional piece. Then, 
directly across from Enchanted Woods 
was a painting by her, but probably a 
self-portrait of sorts, although the head 
is facelss. The head appears to precipitate 
from the darkness around it and then down 
from the hair, it, too, confirms by evalua
tion of Framquite an artist.
Also, in the back room were Grahams 
pieces de resistance, her photographs. 
Usually, Im not one to get too excited 
about photography as art,but Graham cer
tainly shows the creativity, originality and 
imagination inherent in the form, and 
therefore makes it art. Four of the five 
black and white photographs were closeups: a door with peeling paint, a shadow 
upon a curtain, wrought-iron curves, and a
piece of my favorite sculpture. The Fifth 
was of a tunnel (Liberty, I believe) at 
night, with the ghost of the last passing 
cars headlights barely visible.
Clark also saved her best for the back 
a much admired collection of masks, 
named for those they were particularly de
signed for or that which it represents, i.e., 
the Owl, or Bette Midler. They were care
fully constructed and very well designed.
Karen Graham, Erin Clark, and Debra 
Fram are three very talented artistic peo
ple. While I especially like their non
professional works, there is no doubt 
that all their work exhibited last week was 
of the highest calibre. To merely refer 
to these three as designers would be an 
understatement, it would be better to say 
they \are artists to the nth degree.
Jazz show at Duquesne
Jazz greats, Art Blakey and his Jazz 
Messengers along with Sonny Fortune 
will perform on Feb. 20 at 8 PM in the 
Duquesne University Union Ballroom. Re
garded by many as a major link between 
swing and modern jazz as well as a leader 
of the bop school popularized by Charlie 
Parker and Thelonious Monk, Blakey is one 
of the last true founding fathers of jazz.
Pittsburgh-born Blakey has been per
forming for more than 40 years and has 
spent 20 of those as leader and drummer of 
the Jazz Messengers. Formed in the 50s 
after television had sounded the death 
knell for many jazz bands, the Jazz Mes
sengers have been a starting point for hun
dreds of musicians, including Wayne 
Shorter, Bobby Timmons and McCoy 
Tyner.
Jazz-purist Sonny Fortune also con
siders his music to be an art form. The 
art thats in jazz, says Fortune, is ones 
own ability at the highest musical level. 
Since his early beginnings in his native 
Philadelphia in the 50s, Fortune has been 
proving to American jazz enthusiasts that 
his own ability is an art. Accomplished on 
the clarinet, flute, tenor and part-time sax
ophones, this performer/composers latest 
album With Sound Reason, displays an 
unfaltering style.
Tickets will be $5 with student I.D. and 
$6 without. For further information con
tact Duquesne Universitys Union Program 
Board at 434-6640.
ARE GOING TO WASHINGTON M THIS SUMMER
Journalists, analysts, econo
mists, pollsters, candidates, 
hypesters and special interest 
groups will also converge on 
Washington in the election 
summer of 1980.
But perhaps the greatest 
opportunities are reserved for 
the senous students who can 
study the political process upclose at The Amencan Univer
sity, in: government, political 
science, business & government 
relations, communications, jour
nalism and public relations.
A few hands-on internships 
and work study programs are 
still available. Summer study also 
offers ideal opportunities to earn 
credits for electives and to furm
M / !
ther your degree program 
the nation's capital.
During the election summer 
of 1980, the Washington expen-} ^ 
ence at A.U. will provide / \
the inquiring student with a lot N , *
more than "academics!' J i
Talk with your academic/ 
counselor and call or 
write now for infor- / 
mation about the 
Summer of '80 
in D C. There will 
never be another/1 
opportunity like I 
this until 1984.
Will you be there?
Office of Summer Sessions 
The American University 
Washington, D.C. 20016 
202-686-2697
/ ? Please send course
/ schedule. ? Please send 
specific information about:___
TheAmericanv Th University
utin
Name.
Address.
_Zip_
Phone.
The Amencan University \ is an equal\ opportuni ty/attirrna  ^ tive action university
__ X\____\I-------/I--------V\__________ \\_______ I
/IL

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18TARTANFebruary 5, 1980
WRCT's top forty
The Intel Notebook
Careers and Technology at Intel
The Microelectronics Revolutionand how you can be part of it. 
See us on campus February 19 & 20
Think for a minute about what microelectronics 
technology has already achieved. Yet we are 
still in the infancy of the microelectronics 
revolution. And no company is doing more to 
speed it than Intel.
CHOOSE YOUR AREA OF INVOLVEMENT
We re an acknowledged leader in four major 
product areas: semiconductor memories and 
microprocessors, and microcomputer systems 
and memory systems. Plus, we re extending 
our leadership into data-base management.
Our success has created a wide variety of 
career opportunities: engineering, technical 
marketing, production .management and 
planning, finance, information systems, 
personnel, and space and facilities planning 
are just some.
FOUR GREAT LOCATIONS.
We've built our facilities^here the quality of 
life is high, because only in such places can we 
attract the highly skilled, highly motivated 
people we need. Thats why we can offer you 
Californias San Francisco Peninsula;
Portland, Oregon; Phoenix, Arizona; or Austin, 
Texas, each with its own intriguing lifestyle.
SIGN UP NOW.
If youre about to receive a degree in electrical 
engineering, computer science, solid-state 
physics, chemical engineering, material
science, accounting, finance, operations 
management, business economics, production 
management, information systems, industrial 
relations or other related fields, we'd like to talk 
with you. Stop by your placement office to sign 
up for interviews during our visit. Or if youll be 
unable to see us on campus, write to any of our 
locations:
California
Intel College Relations 
3065 Bowers Avenue 
Santa Clara, CA 95051
Oregon
Intel College Relations 
3585 S.W. 198th Avenue 
Aloha, OR 97005
Arizona
Intel College Relations 
6401 W. Williams Field Road 
Chandler, AZ 85224
Texas
Intel MRI/College Relations 
12675 Research Boulevard 
Austin,TX 78759
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H.

---------------------------------------------------

sports
Tartans top Hiram but fall to W&J to remain.500
Sailing above a W&J defender is leading scorer Larry Hufnagel (no. 32), who added two more 
points on this sky jam.
by Denny Postufka
The Tartans remained .500 in the PAC8, coming out of last week with a defeat at 
home last Wednesday at the hands of W&J 
and a victory at Hiram on Saturday. CMU 
now stands at 4-4 in the PAC-8 and 8-8 
overall.
W&J handed the Tartans its fourth con
secutive loss by a score of 81-75. The Tar
tans, who last season went undefeated at 
home, now have two losses at home this 
year. The only time CMU led was in the 
opening minutes of the game. What may 
have proved to be the fatal incident for 
CMU also took place in the opening min
utes. With 66 center Dave Hofmeister on
Taking the base line on a W&J defender is no. 14, Joe Belechak, who converted this drive.
the bench after his one-game suspension, 
replacement John Lewis went down with 
an ankle injury that sidelined him for the 
remainder of the W&J game as well as the 
Hiram game.
The Tartans came to within one with 
two minutes left in the contest but could 
not grab the lead. A big factor in the loss 
was 21 CMU turnovers compared to the 
Presidents 11. One bright spot for the 
Tartans was that senior Larry Hufnagel 
was back in old form pumping in 25 
points and grabbing an amazing 21 re
bounds: Following Huffy was Buddy
Hobart and Joe Belechak who chipped in 
with 12 points apiece. Dave Damico, who
was the conference leading scorer as of 
last week, led W&J with 23 tallies.
The Tartans got back to their winning 
ways on Saturday by defeating Hiram, 
70-58. The Tartans led throughout the 
contest building to a lead of 20 at one 
point in the second half.
It was the inside game of CMU big 
men Hofmeister and Hufnagel who carried 
the Tartans to their fourth conference 
victory. Huffy led with 23 points and 
added another big rebounding game, 
pulling down 16 off the glass. Hof scored 
a personal season high 20 points and 
grabbed 8 rebounds.
CMU Jumped out to an early lead, 
upping the margin to as may as 15 in the 
first half. The Tartans lead at halftime, 
70-58.
The second half was no different as Hof 
and Huffy led the attack with reverse 
layups and tips off the rim.
CMU outshot the Terriers 53% to 41% 
from the field. Kevin Jackson of Hiram 
took game scoring honors with 27 points.
This week the Tartans stay at home to 
face John Carroll Wednesday night at 
8:00 and Case Western Reserve comes into 
town for a Saturday afternoon game at 
2:00.
Women's Basketball:Tartans win one. lose two
by Skip Thorpe
The Carnegie Mellon University Basket
ball team played three games this past 
week. On Monday they played at Geneva. 
Earlier in the day Coach Diane Shenot 
broke her nose and Coach Klein filled in 
admirably, getting his first technical foul as 
a basketball coach within the first five 
minutes of the game. At on point CMU 
pulled ahead by ten but Geneva fought 
back and made it a close game in the last 
few minutes.
Clutch shooting and good defense gave 
CMU the edge in the end. The final score 
was CMU 51, Geneva 48. Kassie Segmiller 
led CMU with 19 points followed by 17 
from Debbie Durr. This was the only win 
the Tartans experienced last week.
On Wednesday night the Tartans lost to 
an aggressive and talented Washington & 
Jefferson team. Although the final score 
was 78-44, this was by no means repre
sentative of the play of the Tartans. CMU 
met the challenge of W&J early, by staying 
with them for the first ten minutes of play.
Then W&Js experience and talent told the 
rest of the story from then on. Kassie 
Segmiller played her usual great game by 
scoring 20 and pulling down rebound after 
rebound.
On Saturday afternoon the Tartans 
played Point Park at the Central Catholic 
gym. Points were hard to come by because 
the Tartans shooting went sour. Poor Shot 
selection and missed lay-ups all added lip 
to a miserable 29% shooting percentage. 
This kind of statistic wont win many bas
ketball games. Rx>r defense and dumb 
fouls all made the afternoon seem that 
much longer. The final score in the contest 
was 66-53.
This week CMU plays St. Francis on 
Wednesday night at 6 PM in the Skibo gym. 
This is the preliminary match-up to the 
mens game against John Carroll.
A special note of interest: Kassie 
Segmiller, A sophomore chemical engineer
ing major has been chosen along with Larry 
Hufnagel as Carnegie Mellons Representa
tive Academic All-Americans.Kassie Segmiller (no. 42) awaits the result of a toss-up between two straining athletes.
PAC-8 'Player of the Week' Kendall Hayes
In a seemingly guard-oriented league, 
it is usually difficult to overlook a compe
tent big man.
Unlike its Big-time counterparts, the 
Presidents Athletic Conference, through 
the years, has been somewhat of a hot-bed 
fr backcourt talent, though the loop 
has also had its share of front-line talent.
However, due to the nature of his game, 
obscurity has befallen Bethany College 
forward Kendall Hayes.
Until last seasoif, Hayes had been one
of the best kept secrets in PAC-8 roundball 
circles. The 66, 200 pounder, a senior 
now, will earn his fourth letter-at the com
pletion of-the present campaign for the 
Bisons. Even more significantly, he has 
paced BC in rebounding during the course 
of each of those three campaigns.
.One of the prime reasons for the Bison 
turnabout in 77-78 which saw the club 
capture the PAC^8 title, he paced the 
Green & White in both rebounding and
scoring a year ago, with figures of 10.5 
and 15.0. respectively, en route to re
ceiving a first-team All-PAC-8 berth.
And this season, Hayes has continued 
the steady, subtly dominant style that has 
characterized his Bison career.
As coach Jim Dafler and his squad 
head into an early-season title showdown 
with defending looptitlist Allegheny this 
coming Wednesday, Hayes will be looked 
to lead his club. At present,he is averaging
18.5 points/game, ranking him as t 
runner-up, in addition to 105 r< 
and 3.3 assists/game, while shooti 
percent from the field and 812 
from the free throw line.
For his efforts. Hayes a native 
andria, Va has been selected 
Player of the Week in thev PAC-8 
those who were unaware of his 
before, it can be assured that 
Hayes is no longer a secret.
he I
;boi

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20TARTANFebruary 5, 1980
y Electrical Engineers Graduates^^B
M Are Finding Careers with
CONTROL SYSTEMS RESEARCH, INC.
Electrical Engineering is a major activity at Control Systems Re
search, as it is in all high technology companies. We are looking for 
highly motivated men and women who seek the opportunity to apply 
their personal skills as a member of a dynamic team.
We have career opportunities available for recent graduates who 
show potential for growth with our Company in the following areas:
DESIGN ENGINEERS
BSEE degree with major course work in electronics. Responsibilities 
will include detailed design project work from circuit design through 
component selection, testing, documentation and initial manufac
turing.
FIELD SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE
Selected candidates will have BSEE degree. Responsibilities to in
clude troubleshooting analog annd digital circuitry, field set-up, 
customer orientation and training and equipment repair.
Our products are high-precision electronic motion and speed control 
systems for DC motors used in a variety of applications in aerospace, 
automotive, glass producing, machine tool and other industry.
We offer excellent salary with company paid fringe benefits, in
cluding tuition reimbursement. If you are interested in learning more 
about these opportunities, please contact: Ellen Marino 412/261- 
8767. OR SEND YOUR RESUME TO: CONTROL SYSTEMS RESEARCH,
INC., 632 Fort Duquesne Blvd. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 1S222.
Control Systems Research M
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/f
CMU Swimmers surprise JC, Bethany and Gettysburg
k -0- -0- -0 -0 _0_ -0- _0_ ,0, _0_ _0_ _0_ _<L _0_ -0- _0_ JL -0- Jju _0_ -0- -0- fIW WWW WWW WWW WWW WWW WWW w w w w^ 
% *
I GRADUATE STUDENT % 
I ORGANIZATION 
*5 *
% * * TONICHT ? ? I
I ORGANIZATIONAL | 
I MEETING %
I TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5 |
I 6:00 P.M. *
I GSIA AUDITORIUM |
* *
* &
* *
* g,

*f5 &
I WE ENCOURAGE ALL TO COME |
I AND SUPPORT THE GSO J
* *ft 4
EN GARDE! The CMU fencing team began its second season last weak on a good note by downing 
Penn State-Fayette. They travel to I UP tomorrow to do battle with the Little Indians.
by Randy Condon and Laurie Southorn
The Carnegie-Mellon Swim Team has 
done well so far this season. Take for ex
ample the meet on Saturday, Jan. 26 
against John Carroll University. Although 
they lost, the efforts put foth exempli
fied the determination of team members.
The 400 yard medley relay consisting 
of freshman Randy Condon and Mike 
Kochanowski, junior Jim Matysek and 
sophomore Todd Reinke set a new pool 
record. Setting a personal record, Paul 
Harvey took a second place in the 1000 
yard freestyle. Coming off a bad injury, 
diver Bob Frye did remarkably well. In 
the 200 yard butterfly Nick Watts held off 
three of John Carrolls finest to win.
Randy Condon set a new school record 
in the 200 yard backstroke while seniors 
Dave Watterson and Mike Hurley set per
sonal bests. In the 500 yard freestyle Jim 
Matysek just missed the pool record by .4
of a second. In his first year of diving, 
freshman Jody Byk, earned a second place 
in the diving.
There are four girls on this team, senior 
Janet Axtill, junior Maureen Fernandez 
and freshmen Chris Bohacek and Laurie 
Southorn. Maureen Fernandez swam the 
100 yard butterfly and the 100 yard free
style while Janet Axtill swam the brutal 
1000 yard freestyle. Laurie Southorn 
finished the grueling 200 yard individual 
medley and along with Chris Bohacek, 
Maureen Fernandez, and Fed Longer 
swam the 400 yard fee relay.
Wednesday was the beginning of a good 
week for the CMU Swim Team. The 
Tartan Tankers traveled to Bethany and 
swamped the Bisons. Paul Harvey con
tinued to drop his times, taking off a total 
of 16 seconds in the 500 and 1000 yard 
freestyle. Freshman Randy Condon took 
the 200 yard freestyle with ease. In the
What does the swimming team do for relaxation? This photo should answer your question.
200 yard Individual Medley, Jim Matysek, 
double All-American, took first place. 
Divers Bob Frye and Jody Bik continued 
to soar to new heights by capturing first 
and second place. Mike Hurley did the job 
in his first appearance in the brutal 200 
yard butterfly taking third. The Tartans 
convincingly finished the meet by taking 
first and second in the backstroke, winning 
the 500 hard freestyle, sweeping the 
breaststroke, and victoriously finishing the 
final 400 yard freestyle relay.
The dogfight at Bethany proved to be 
merely a warmup for the battle of Gettys
burg. The Medley relay consisting of 
Condon, Matysek, Mike Kochanowski, and 
and anchored by Todd Reinke, set the tone 
for the meet. The Tartans wound up on 
top. In the 1000 yard freestyle, Joachim 
Netteler and Paul Harvey took third and 
second respectively. Kochanowski convin
cingly won the 200 yard freestyle- Reinke
and Tom Barr placed second and third in 
the 50 yard freestyle. Coming off an 
illness, Nick Watts scored a second in the 
200 yard butterfly. In the 200 yard back
stroke, the Tartans again washed the 
Bullits hopes of victory when Condon and 
captain Dave Watterson finished one, two. 
Matysek again doubled the 500 yard free
style and 200 yard breaststroke. Despite 
fine performances of all the swimmers, the 
decision came down to the final relay. 
Were the Tartans to lose this relay, they 
would have lost the meet- by one point. 
However, Barr, Watts, Reinke, and Kocha
nowski held off the Gettysburgh threat 
and won by a decievingly wide margin of 
13 points.
These meets, however, are merely pre
ludes to the upcoming Saturday home 
meet against the better rivals from Cleve
land, Case Western Reserve University. 
The meet starts at 2:00 PM.

---------------------------------------------------

Alternatives to militarism
continued from page 7
for two years. Its not like on Christmas 
Eve, the guys in the Kremlin suddenly 
decided, lets march into Afghanistan. 
Thats a country thats been under the 
Soviet sphere of influence for a number of 
years of Carters administration. The Amer
ican Ambassador was killed within the last 
year there while the Russians largely
 looked on. And so its not a question of 
what do we do now, because now is too 
late.
TARTAN: Is there any other way besides 
the showing of military strength? What 
should we have done?
ONIEAL: Were talking about foreign (and 
energy) policy questions here. I think one 
thing thats happened is that because 
I theyre in the same part of the world, the 
i hostages in Iran and (the situation in) Af
ghanistan have fused together as if they are 
I one force or one threat to the United 
i States. I think that another kind of sym
bolic thing that has taken place here is that 
| were insulted as a nation. Im upset per| sonally that theres what I believe a 
macho response that we feel we have to 
make. There were some critical errors in 
[ the Carter foreign policy that led to the 
! hostages being taken in the first place. Any
man or woman on the street that reads the 
newspapers could have told you that it 
would be a very dangerous move, likely to 
provoke some sort of retaliatory action, to 
bring the Shah here for medical treatment. 
A lot of people felt if we really wanted to 
serve the Shah and help him out we would 
have put the hospital on wheels and taken 
it down to Mexico. Send the whole staff 
of doctors down there. The other thing is 
that the Carter policy was no negotiation, 
international terrorists, etc., etc. A lot of 
that is rhetoric because now Carter is 
saying: we will negotiate, we will accept a 
tribunal on the Shah, we have mutual in
terests with you, if you realize that Russia 
is the agressor, and indeed Russia is acting 
agressively, and this thing should be 
opposed strenously but not necessarily 
with confronting WWIII or a nuclear ex
change... The ways in which to rescue the 
hostages obviously are not open to mil
itary solutions. So the fact that the 82nd 
Airborne was ready to go jump in with
50,000 troops is not reassuring to me. I 
would like to see the hostages out. I would 
like to see us stop playing this kind of 
macho role where we have to first defend 
our own honor, and then worry about the 
political consequences... the Carter policy
now seems to be moving toward nego
tiation and seems to be moving towards 
more realistic recognition of what kind of 
role the Shah played in his own country. 
That may win the release of the hostages. 
Again, we have the dramatization of the 
Great Escape which again, how else can 
that be interpreted back in Iran except 
again we are flexing our muscles, were 
showing off, we pulled a fast one on them. 
Im glad to hear that the students or the 
Marxists or whoever are holding the hos
tages said that they dont think (the Great 
Escape) is going to effect their policy on 
holding the hostages ... its a more clear 
recognition of what we are facing and the 
kind of problem we have to address. 
Theres too much willingness to go to the 
military solution; to just throw money and 
weapons at foreign policy issues  its just 
not the answer. It diverts a real analysis of 
what we are as a nation and what we 
should be about.
I think that Lincolns point about a real 
questioning of what using that money and 
resources does to us as a nation is in itself a 
forum, and especially on this campus 
where there is a lot of research being done. 
A lot of people who are being trained to do 
research will find themselves faced with a 
whole lot of options for doing military re
search, and very little options for doing 
other kinds of research... thats a patriotic
response... if you want to make your 
country strong, if you want to make us less 
dependent on oil... We only got 4% of our 
oil reserves from Iran last year, and now 
were not getting any, and were willing to 
risk a confrontation that could lead to 
World War III because we want to protect 
that oil? Theres certainly no illusion that 
were protecting democracy in Pakistan or 
protecting democracy in Iran at this point. 
Those kind of things need to be examined. 
Its not unpatriotic to question the Pres
ident.
.I just want to mention this. I spoke to 
Robert Muller yesterday. Hes a well-decor
ated Vietnam War vetran who is now in a 
wheelchair as a result of his injuries in Viet
nam. Hes a patriot from his teeth to his 
toes. He says that there is no way to reinstitute the draft or the Selective Service 
system in his mind unless we begin to ques
tion our military posture and commit
ments, and the way in which the military 
works in this country... He saw a lot of his 
friends grounp up in that system in Viet
nam. His discussions with Vietnam vetrans 
that have been calling into the office show 
that theres a link between the two ques
tions.
^ ^ ^ ^ ^|c
1# 1^ 1* ^ ^ ^ vp ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^
*
IRON CITYSCHUTZBUDSCHMIDTS CHAMPALE STROHS GENESEE ROLLING ROCK SCHUTZ MALT BALLANTINE ALE MILLER UGHT MICHELOB PABST MILLER COLT 45GENESEE CREAM ALE BUSCHSCHLITZ LIGHT
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak SubsSERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM - 2 AM 
QUARTS - MUGS  PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 DIFFERENT DRAFT BEERS
MILLERS. COLT 45. MOL SON ALE. LOWENBRAU DARK. 
STROMS HEINEKEN LIGHT One different 16 (2 6 pk featured etch wee*
SCHLITZ  PABST 
SCHLITZ MALT  STROH S * ROLLING ROCK 
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO ADVER
TIZE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
 SPECIALTY fTEMS FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES  PIZZA SERVED TIU 3 AM HOT DOGS CHOICE OF 12 DIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 35 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES 
------------------- IMPORTS---------------------
HOT DOG SHOPS, INC.
WxN3bE:: lw WxN3NN:z
BASS ALE England
 OORT HANSA Germany 
SAM MIGUEL PMNpinea 
SPATENBRAU Germany 
ST PAUU GIRL Germany 
PILSNER URQUELL Ciech 
GUINESS STOUT Ireland
 DAS XX EQUIS Mexico 
WURZBURGER Germany 
HARP LAGER Ireland 
LOWENBRAU Germany 
O'KEEFE ALE Canada
 DINKEL ACKER Germany 
TECATE Mexico 
ISENBECK W Germany
 IRYSTALL Italy 
MACKESON England
 KIRIN Japan 
PERONI Italy 
RIGNES Norway
 BECKS Germany HOF BRAU Germany
 ZYWIEC Poland 
KRAKUS Poland
 SUPERIOR Mexico FOSI fcRS Australia
 HEINEKEN Holland MOLSON ALE Canada 
PAULANER Germany 
GOSSER Austria 
TANKARD London
 UNION W Germany
 PALE ALE London
 DINKEL Germany
 WARFTEINEL Germany
3901 FORBES AV. (OAKLAND) PGH. PA 15213
Hughes is news
We make engineering and scientific history year after 
year. Like 1976, when five Hughes-developed satellites 
went into orbit.
If you come to work with us, we'll both make news in 
your home-town paper.
Help Hughes Aircraft Company make news. And 
electronic miracles. And history. (And no airplanes.)
Ask your placement office when Hughes recruiters will be 
on campus.
:HUGHES:I I
I____________________________________________. _ JCreating a new world with electronics
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F
Theres a lot 
more of these 
around 
than you 
might think.
Help Wanted
Employer Seekir)g 
college student for 
well-paying surmaer 
job.
Please callt
And you dont have to just rely on your local 
newspaper to find them. Because this spring, 
Fords Insider magazine will feature an 
entire issue on how and where to find summer 
employment.
There will be information on government 
jobs, including tips on-taking the Civil Service 
exam. Articles on overseas jobs, too. Intern 
and co-op programs in private business. Jobs 
workin on the railroad and other outdoor 
money-makers. Jobs at resorts. Even jobs at 
Disneyland. And for the individualist, job 
profiles of a clam digger and a magician.
Insider will help you find the summer job 
you need. And to find Insider, all you have to 
do is pick up a copy of your college paper 
and look inside. Its free from Ford.
Look for Summer job 
issue of Insider 
Forcfs continuing 
series of college 
newspaper supplements
FORD DIVISION

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22TARTANFebruary 5, 1980
SAE strikes
SAE swept to victory with a record 
breaking performance last Saturday to cap
ture the IM Bowling title. SAEs victory 
came at the expense of Theta Xi, the de
fending champions.
SAE was led by Dave Radacks 582 pin 
series (.183-205-192) and Kenny Limmas 
surprising 172 and 180. Right behind was 
Dave Basile (474), Dave Wain (472) with 
Paul Schoff and Eddie Shirley contributing 
to the 2425total team series score.
Ed Novak led Theta Xi with a respect
able 549 series, which included a 211 
game. TXs total team series was 2251.
On the season, the SAE team swept the 
top honors with high team series (2425) 
and high team game (850). Additionally, 
Dave Radack captured the individual high 
average (179) and individual high series 
(599). Theta Xis Ed Novak took the high 
game with a 247.inert Unit: i ne women s basketball team made it two out of twelve by downing Geneva last week. How about number tnreer
ALL THE NEWS WORLDWIDE 
HOME-DELIVERED 
LARGEST CLASSIFIED VOL 
(213) 970-4986 
NORTHROP AIRCRAFT 
GROUP OFFICElate
IN FOUR PARTS - 52 PG8. 
PT. I-GENE RAL NEWS-15 PGS.
SPANNING THE GLOBETIMELY REPORTING
VOL. LIXDAILY FIVE CENTSON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS FEBRUARY 11th
Northrop P-61s 
Lead the Way as 
MacArthur Returns 
to Philippines
October 30, 1944 - 
Leyte Gulf, Philippines
Gen. Douglas MacArthur stood proud 
and erect on the bridge of the light 
cruiser NASHVILLE last week as she 
sailed into the green waters of Leyte 
Gulf. He had returned, keeping the 
promise made in March of 1942. Bombersize P-61s from Northrop, radar-guided 
fighter aircraft with a 66-foot wing span, 
guarded the skies for his safe voyage.
First American fighter designed specif
ically for night interception, the twinengine P-61s reached the Pacific combat 
zone earlier this year. Designed by Jack 
Northrop, the giant Black Widow is 
being produced in 13 different models 
at the companys Hawthorne plant, one 
of the first in the industry to be auto
mated. Our first large-scale produc
tion order is on schedule, says Northrop, 
Our P-61 aircraft is in combat service 
in both the Pacific and European theatres.
February, 1980
Northrop Aircraft is still designing and 
building high-performance aircraft, to
day in the companys mile-long, modem 
complex at Hawthorne. After 40 years 
were still promoting our people as well 
as our products, offering excellent sal
aries and benefits, including generous 
vacations-the week-long Christmas Holi
day is another Northrop innovation in 
the aircraft industry. Above all, we take 
pride in our management philosophy:
Northrop Aircraft's P-61 Night Fighter
our employees are not simply cogs in 
an industrial machine, but creative in
dividuals with intelligence and dignity 
to be respected, and ambitions to be 
realized.
Northrop Aircraft today is still encour
aging and promoting creative technical 
people. If your interests are in AERO
NAUTICAL ENGINEERING, ELEC
TRICAL ENGINEERING, MECHAN
ICAL ENGINEERING,MANUFAC
TURING ENGINEERING, METAL
LURGY, MANUFACTURING TECH
NOLOGY, or, INDUSTRIAL ENGI
NEERING, see Northrop today for your
Aircraft Group
tomorrow.
Contact the placement office to sche
dule an appointment with a Northrop 
representative.
If you cannot meet with us, call:
(213) 970-4986.
Or, send your resume to:
Terry Saldin 
Employment Office 
Zone 80, Dept. CM-211. 
2815 El Segundo Blvd. 
Hawthorne, CA 90250
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H '
NORTHROPMaking advanced technology work.

---------------------------------------------------

a.b.
February 7 at 7, 9, 11 PM
Hearts and Minds in DH 2210 
Admission is $.75 with ID/$ 1.00 without 
February 8 at 6, 8, 10, 12 PM
Life of Brian in DH 2210
Admission is $1.00 with ID/$ 1.25 withoutwrct
February 6 at 6 AM
SW's Country presents 3 hours of Willie 
Nelson and Waylon Jennings 
February 6 at 11 PM
What's Your Beef reads invitations for 
TGIF Passion Party. Hosted by: Mark 
Andrews, Michael West 
February 9 at 6 PM (Airplay)
"Just a Prank" by Melcourt Poux
films
February 10 at 7:30 PM in the Lecture Hall
Pandora's Box by G.W. Pabst. Admission 
$1.50.
Pittsburgh Playhouse Films
February 5 at 7:30 and 9:30PM Things to
Come
February 6 at 7:30 and 9:50 PM New
York, New York
February 7 at 7:30 and 9:40 PM BrotherSun, Sister Moon
February 8 at 7:30, 9:30 and 11:30 PM
Time After Time
February 9 at 7:30, 9:30 and 11:30PM
King of Hearts
February 10 at 7:30 and 9:55 PM It's a
Gift and The Bank Dick
February 11 at 7:30 and 9:50PM Henry V
Admission is $2.50 for each film.
February 6 at 8PM
Wozzeck in Frick Fine Arts Building, Pitt
Admission free.
arts
February 9 at 6, 8, 10, 12 PM
Failsafe in DH 2210
Admission is $.50 with CMU ID/$.75 
without
America Film Series
February 5 'The Promise Fulfilled and the 
Promise Broken"
February 6 'The Arsenal"
February 11 'The First Impact"
Showings take place in the Wherrett Room 
in Skibo at 11:30 AM and 12:30 PM.
Carnegie Institute Film Section 
February 5 at 7:30 PM in the Lecture Hall
Acquirre, the Wrath of God by Werner 
Herzog. Admission $1.50
February 7 at 8 PM in the Museum of Art 
Theatre,
Cat's Craddle, Wonder Ring, Anticipation 
of the Night, Sirius Rembered by Stan 
Brakage. Admission is free.
February 9 at 1:30 and 3:00 in the 
Museum of Art Theatre
Dames by Ray Enright. Admission $1.50
February 5 to March 9 
Carnegie Institute
Luke Swank: PhotographsGalleryD
February 7 to February 16 
Kresge Theatre
Brigadoon will be presented by the CMU 
Music Theatre program. Tickets are now 
available -tn the Box Office, in CFA, Mon
day through Friday, 10 AM to 5 PM.
February 13th at 8PM 
Carnegie Lecture Hall
International Poetry Forum will presentIpoets David Kherdian and Naomi Shihab 
Nye. (Tickets $4 and $2.50 are available at 
at the IPF office of National Record Marts. 
Sponsored by Carnegie Library of Pitts
burgh.
Through March 16 
Carnegie Institute
Karen Stoller: Works in Fiber
Entrance Gallery
February 6 at 7:30 PM 
Heinz Hall
Andre Previn hosts University Night. Tick
ets now available to High School seniors 
and college students with ID/$3. Call 
Kathy Buter at 281-8185 ext. 48 for 
tickets.
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra 
Heinz Hall
Andre Previn conducts Berlioz Requiem 
(Grande Messe des Morts), featuring tenor 
Robert Tear and the Penn State University 
Choir. February 7 at 8 PM, February 8 at 
8:30 PM, and February 10 at 2:30 PM.
February 9 at 8PM 
Dance Teller Company
William Penn College in the WinchesterThurston School Auditorium. Call 578- 
7511 for more information.
February 10 at 8 PM 
Chatham College Chapel
New Pittsburgh Music Ensemble Recital
Admission is free. Call 441-8200, ext. 224 
for details.
February 12 at 8 PM 
Carlow College Kresge Theatre
Carlow Music Department student recitals
Admission is free. Call 578-6043 for details
February 13 at 8 PM 
Carlow College Kresge Theatre
Pittsburgh Chamber Soloists
Admission is free. Call 578-6043 for details
February 15,16 at 7:30 PM
Peter, Paul, and Mary will be performing 
at the Stanely Theatre for two evenings.
February 17 at 8 PM 
Carlow College Kresge Theatre
Faculty recital with R. James Whipple on 
bassoon. Admission is free. Call 578-6043 
for details.
February 20 at 8 PM
Art Blakely and his Jazz Messengers along 
with Sonny Fortune will perform in the 
Duquesne University Union Ballroom.
sports
February 8 at 8.30 PM
Wrestling (to be announced)
Admission $4.00, $5.00, $6.00
February 9
Soccer-Preliminary 1.2:00 Noon
Spirit vs. Wichita 1:00 PM
Hockey-Penguins vs. Minnesota 8:00 PM
February 10
College Basketball-Preliminary 1:15 PM
Duquesne vs. University of Pittsburgh 3 PM
Admission $2.00, $4.00, $5.00
special
February 5 at 4:30 in the Skibo Ballroom 
the Draft Registration: A discussion of fact 
and alternative. Some of the speakers in
clude Professor Tom Kerr, Senator John 
Heinz II, Rev. Barry Lynn, and Rabbi 
Joseph Levine. The forum is free and open 
to the public.
PRODUCTION STAFFMEETING 
Wednesday 7:30
Be Tfccnc!
SEND YOUR LOVE WITH A 
FREE TARTAN CLASSIFIED
February 12,1980 issue
(Limit: 15 words please)
Send to Skibo Information Desk or Box 17 Campus Mail
(Due to limited space, not all classifieds are 
guaranteed to appear.)
Sift

---------------------------------------------------

rysville. Pa. 15668. Good Lyck!Campus.
OPEN WINDOWSCLOSE ALL THE
IN WARNERHALL OFFICES
classified ads
Want it done right? Professional typing, ed
iting prepared by PhD graduate. Manu
scripts, term papers, theses, dissertations. 
IBM selectric. Prompt, efficient, reason
able. Convenient location. Susan, 281-5222 
Wanted: Occasional babysitter for evenings 
(and possibly after school) 422-7180. 
TYPING - fast, accurate on new SmithCorona machine, only $.75 page. Deborah 
Payne 441-7488, evenings.
Female needs to sublet room in house or 
apt from May 1 to August 31. Contact 
Lauren at 421 C)675 after 9 PM.
Female roommate needed for remainder of 
semester, completely remodeled two bed
room apartment, dishwasher, fireplace, 
security. Close to campus & bus routes. 
Excellent alternative for a winter com
muter's headaches. $175 and electricity.
682-3148.
Part-time student for any 3-4 evenings,
15 hrs/weekly. $5.43 per hour, car helpful, 
hours flexible. (Sll (3 PM  6 PM) 682- 
2652.
Composer needed - write score for new
musical - call x4906 or write c/o Karen, 
5D11 Morewood Gardens.
Cellist wanted to play string quartets
-421-3153.clubs
Kappa Alpha Theta is selling Valentines
Day carnations to raise money for their 
philanthropy. Western Pennsylvania School 
for Blind Children. Cost is $1.00 per flower. 
Please mail check, number ordered and per
sonal card message to Sweetheart Box 479 
5115 Margaret Morrison St. Pitts. Pa. 
15213. We only deliver on campus on Wed. 
night Feb 13th. Pick ups at Kappa Alpha 
Theta house Apt. 104 MM, Wed, 13th from 
7-10 PM. Orders will also be taken Febru
ary 11 to 13 at Skibo, Morewood, and 
Donner lobbies.
The 1980 Spring Carnival Midway meeting
schedule. All meetings will be held on Mon
day evenings at 6 PM in Skibo Room 11. 
On Monday. February 11: We will discuss 
booth design criteria and last time signed 
contracts and security deposits will be ac
cepted! On March 3: (In Rm 45) The Mid
way Watch will be determined. On April 7: 
Go over Midway Watch schedule, emphasis 
of all rules and infractions, discuss when 
booths can be moved onto Midway, deter
mine post-Carnival cleanup crew. A 
meeting is tentatively scheduled for 6 PM 
on Friday. April 18. There's an excellent 
chance we won't have it if nothing gets 
screwed up. For more information call 
Elaine Smith. Midway Chairman, Home: 
521-4890 (between 9 AM and midnight) 
Carnival office: 578-2119 (office hrs. 2-4. 
Mon, Fri.) Remember Spring Carnival is 
scheduled for April 17,18, and 19.
CMU Women's Task Force will sponsor a  
series of workshops entitled "Marketing 
Your Skills for Future Positions & Career 
Advancement." This Wednesday, effective 
interviewing will be presented and dis
cussed at noon in GSIA 213. For more in
formation, call Vicki Falco at x2272.
The Carnegie Tech Radio Club will meet
tonight, Tuesday February 5, in the 
Radio Club room, HH 401, at 7:30 PM. 
Anyone interested in amateur radio is 
urged to attend.
Senate meeting times  General meets on
Tuesday at 6:30 in Wherrett; Rules Com
mittee meets at 6:00 on Thursday in Rm 
33, Finance Committee meets 5:30 on 
Wednesday in Rm 12.'
SDC needs a properties manager to take 
charge of maintaining and replacing its 
equipment. The position is open to any 
dorm resident, and being on work study is 
strongly recommended. If you are interes
ted, please contact either Mark Knapp at 
x4664 or Bill Reiner at x4662 or Ansel 
Moore at x4068 for more information.
AB Concerts Committee will meet at 7 PM 
on Wednesday, February 6th in the AB 
room above Skibo information desk. All 
present members must attend. Anyone in
terested is welcome. 'Call Ted Smits at 
x4287 for information.
BAND MEMBERS  If you have a uniform 
or know someone who does, bring it to the 
Information Desk RIGHT NOW. You are 
holding up inventory.
PHOTOGRAPHERS-The SDC dark room
in Donner Hall is available for use to any 
dorm resident. For more information, 
contact Frank Kern, X4059, 232 Donner.
general
International Information Service:For infor
mation about foreign countries and cul
tures, contact the International Student 
Organization of CMU, Box 181, Baker 
Hall, x3043. Our members are willing to 
personally discuss various aspects of their 
home countries with you. If we don't have 
someone from the country you're inter
ested in, we'll try to find someone else 
who can answer your questions.
Daily Mass is celebrated by the University 
Oratory Parish (Roman Catholic Chaplain
cy) Monday through Friday at 12:30 noon
time in-CMU's chapel (Skibo 39). If your 
lunch hour is short, please feel free to eat 
your lunch first and then join us Eucharist. 
Open to all. For more info call 681-3181. 
The Talmud Study Group meets every 
Sunday from 3 to 4 PM at Hillel, 315 S. 
Beliefield. Newcomers welcomed.
The Playhouse Film Reportory announces 
an extra 11 30 show for Friday and Satur
day movies except Luna during February. 
Call 621-4445 for details.
Dr. Ralph Morrison, Director of Interna
tional Services, University of Pittsburgh, 
will speak on the educational system of 
modern China February 7 at 7:00 PM in 
the Wherret Room. This lecture is present
ed by the International Student Organiza
tion of CMU. The lecture is free, and 
everyone is invited to attend.
Israel Week Comes To CMU. "Seventy
Years of Kibbutz" a multi-media exhibi
tion will be on display in the Skibo Lobby 
on Wednesday. February 13, 10 AM to 
4 PM. Information tables will provide pam
phlets on the mid-east conflict and pro
grams in Israel for college students. Falafel
lAiilt ho con/nrl I
"Religion, Violence And Reconciliation In
Northern Ireland" will be the topic of the 
graduate-faculty lecture held at the Oratory 
(4040 Bigelow Blvd) on Wednesday even
ing, February 6 at 8:15 PM. Sister Mary 
Grant from Belfast, Northern Ireland will 
be the principle speaker. Sister Mary is a 
member of The Little Sisters of The As
sumption and works for the CatholicProtestant reconciliation at the very center 
of violence in Falls Road, Belfast. She 
is the author of "Yes, Lord," a widely 
praised volume of poetry about her ex
perience of God in the midst of religious 
strife. This talk is sponsored by the Univer
sity Oratory Roman Catholic Parish and is 
open to the public.
Shabbat services and dinner begin at 5:30
on Friday, February 15, at B'nai B'rith 
Hillel, 315 S. Bellefield.
Attention Cross-Country Skiers: The City
of Pittsburgh, Department of Parks and 
Recreation in cooperation with Avalanche 
have once again this year opened a cross
country ski rental facility at the Golf 
Course Club House in Schenley Park.
Thru March, weather permitting, indi
viduals have the opportunity of renting 
equipment for a full or half day with 
special serivces such as free group in
struction provided.
Those individuals who wish to rent 
equipment at this facility must be 18 
years of age or older unless accompanied 
by an adult who at the time of equipment 
rental must present some form of identi
fication.
Private group lessons are available thru 
Avalanche Inc. upon request. For more 
information concerning ski rentals and 
programs call 621-3990.
Hours of Operanon: 9 AM to 5 PM seven 
days a week, weather permitting.
Where: Schenley Park Golf Course Club 
House, located where Forbes Ave. and 
Darlington Rd. meet.
Rates: Adults-$6.75 per full day, $4.50 
per half day. Juniors-$5.75 per full day, 
$3.50 per half day.
The Jewish Faculty Discussion Group will
meet on Thursday, February 14. at 8 PM 
in Benedum Hall, O'Hara Street. The dis
cussion will be led by participants in the 
recent Black/Jewish Mission to Israel.
On Friday, February 8, at 7:30 PM, the 
Pittsburgh J.P. Stevens Boycott will be 
having a benefit showing of the film 
Norma Rae. As a special guest. Crystal 
Lee Sutton, the woman on whose exper
iences the film is based, will be present to 
speak. The film and discussion will be 
preceded by a reception for Ms. Sutton, 
beginning at 6:30 PM. The events will take 
place at Synod Hall, on Craig Street 
between Fifth and Bayard (behind St. Paul's 
Cathedral). Admission is $2. You are urged 
to make reservations in advance by calling 
291-9983.
"Cafe Jerusalem" will take place on Tues
day, February 12. at 8 PM in the Royal 
Room of the Jewish Community Center, 
315 S. Bel lef ield Avenue. Featuring enter
tainment and refreshments, this Israelicoffeehouse is in honor of Israel Week on
The Jewish Defense League will hold a
meeting on Wednesday, February 7, at 
9:00 PM in the Squirrel Hill Jewish Com
munity Center. All interested are invited 
to attend.official
President Richard M. Cyert will have open
office hours for students between 3 and 5 
PM in his office on Monday February 11. 
Students who wish to meet with the pres
ident should telephone his office, 
578-2200, to set up an appointment.
It is hoped that this program will be a 
benefit to both the president and the stu
dents in allowing students direct ^"-"ict 
with him.
Majoring in Administration ai.J
ment Sciences. To CIT and MIS Fresh
men who want to be considered for ad
mission to C IT/M IS Track of A&MS. 
You should bring copy of Fall 1979 grades 
to the Department Office (GSIA 206) 
before March 1. To H&SS sophmores 
who want to be considered for admission 
to Department of A&MS as Juniors in 
September 1980. You, should bring tran
script from 1978 academic year and Fall 
1979 grades to Department Office (GSIA 
206) before February 15.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities and Social Sciences, will have 
open office hours for students on Tuesday 
from 1:30 to 3:30 PM.
Get the Dean's List edge over your dass -
mates. Come to the Communications 
Skills Center and for no fee whatsoever, 
We'll teach, advise, and answer questions 
in all parts of the writing process. Our 
staff works with all subject matter: 
resumes, research papers, letters, applica
tions, literature papers, rhetoric study, 
science assignments, and any other writing 
tasks you can think of.
We are open Monday through Friday, 
9:00 AM to 4:00 PM. Hurry. Don't be the 
last person in your class to take advantage 
of the Communication Skills Center.
There will be a meeting of the Biology
Student Advisory Committee on February 
6 at 5PM in Skibo-, Room 12.
scholarships
The Pittsburgh Chapter of the American i
Production and Inventory Control Society | 
(APICS) will be awarding the David Allshouse $500 Memorial Scholarship on April 
11, 1980. This scholarship program is open 
to any full-time undergraduate student pur
suing a degree in some way related to the 
field of Production and Inventory Control. 
All entries in this program must be post
marked no later than March 14,1980. The 
sum of all scores will determine the winner 
with a panel of experts independently 
rating each application. Finalists will be <| 
asked to substantiate all data furnished on 
the application form. Official applica
tions may be obtained by writing to: 
Mr. J.W. Holmes, Mine Safety Appliance 
Company. 3880 Meadowbrook Road, Mur