The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 83, Number 5, October 5, 1982.
y/}/#//,
photo by N.S. Vecchi
Issue is buried
ZBT returns gravestones
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Staffwriter
Yes, its true. Zeta Beta Tau did get real 
tombstones from the Green tree Cemetary 
for their haunted house. Or, more specifi
cally, the tombstones were real, but they 
werent on the graves. ZBT brothers picked 
them up from an old pile of some two 
hundred or so tombstones near the 
cemetary.
Student Affairs 
offers tutoring
BY MONICA J. CELUO
Tartan News Editor
Student Affairs will offer tutoring in five 
freshman level courses again this year.
Brad Walter, acting dean of Student 
Affairs, said, The tutoring sessions were 
Very successful last year, so we decided to run 
them again. Sessions will be offered in Cal
culus, H&SS math courses, Physics, Chem
istry, and Freshman Writing.
Walter is currently seeking students to 
tutor in these courses. Tutors must be on 
work-study, have good QPAs and have 
earned an A or a B in the course.
Sessions will run Mondays through 
Thursdays in Baker and Porter Hall. A sche
dule will be published in the near future.
However, the stones were never used for 
graves. A Pittsburgh citizen, shocked when 
she saw that ZBT was going to use real 
tombstones, called CMU security and then 
the Pittsburgh police. On the night of the 
Haunted House the police came to ZBT 
before they opened and asked that they 
remove the tombstones and bring them back 
to the cemetery. There were no arrests and 
nothing legally wrong, as rumor had sug
gested, except a city ordinance that was eas
ily cleared when the brothers complied and 
returned the stones to their original place.
The whole thing was blown out of pro
portion, said ZBT President Paul Dachille. 
My men didnt do anything wrong.ZJSI decided to dress up their Haunted House party with real tombstones. A nearby 
cemetery, however, was not pleased with the idea.
CMU's enrollment unaffected by economy
By NANCY RITCHEY
Tartan Staffwriter
How has CMUs enrollment been affected 
by the federal cutbacks in financial aid?
We havent noticed any change at all in 
enrollment as a result erf the economy, said 
Harry Whitehead, Registrar. He said that 
there was, in fact, an increase in the number 
of enrolled undergraduates this year of 
about 50 to 100 students.
Walter Cathie, director of Financial Aid, 
offered figures that show that CMU has not
lost its selection of students due to cutbacks. 
In fact, CMU had more applications this 
year and accepted more students than last 
year.
Cathie attributes this successful year to the 
guaranteed financial aid statements which 
were sent to the students before the federal 
government had made its decision on the 
financial aid budget. We gambled on the 
government losing some of their batdes, 
Ca*hie said. We were prepared to increase 
our institutional commitment by over 50%
this year.
Because of the veto of some of the finan
cial aid cutbacks, CMUs federal allottment 
will only decrease 5% next year. Of the 278 
billion dollar federal grant, which will be 
distributed to schools across the nation, 
CMU will be receiving $1,580,000 next year, 
according to Cathie.
Cathie noted some interesting trends in 
enrollment which could affect financial aid 
in the future. The first is the number of 
continued on page 13Kraemer wins university teaching award
By JOANNE SAVINELL
Tartan Associate News Editor
The Ryan Teaching Award selection 
committee has named this years recipients 
of the college teaching awards. Awards of 
$500 each were presented to Harry Holland,
CFA; Paul Christiano, CIT; Kenneth Dunn, 
GSIA; Michael P. Weber, H&SS; and Delorese Ambrose, SUPA. Robert W. Kraemer, 
teaching award recipient from MCS, was 
also selected as winner of the main Ryan 
award.
ROBERT W. KRAEMERphoto by Dave Stilt
The committee, composed of faculty and 
administrative members, determined the 
winners after considering input from stu
dents and faculty.
Kraemer, who received $1000, lias been 
teaching physics at CMU since 1964. His 
office bears the trademarks of his profession
 a blackboard filled with energy formulas 
and free body diagrams, and a painting of 
Albert Einstein overlooking the 
surroundings.
Kraemer currently is teaching Physics I, 
but has taught graduate and undergraduate 
level physics courses in the past. "Each (class 
level of students) presents a separate kind of 
challenge, commented Kraemer. Fresh
men come in from quite different back
grounds, he said, and must be brought to 
the same level. The large freshman lecture 
classes challenge the instructor to hold the 
attention of the students. On the other hand, 
with small upperclassman courses, he is 
teaching people who have chosen to do 
that area. You have a nice rapport with 
them, get to know them on a one-to-one 
basis.
Kraemer believes that the intellectual abil
ity of the students has changed little since he 
came to CMU from Johns Hopkins Univer
sity, where he earned a Ph.d. in physics, and 
then taught for two years. He spent his 
undergraduate years at LaSalle College in 
Philadelphia.
One aspect of his teaching style is "recog
nizing what any given group of students 
needs, said Kraemer. He stressed that the 
instructor must be flexible in style, and be 
willing to adjust the pace of the course 
according to what is best for that particular 
group. I like to keep a relaxed atmosphere
in the classroom, but I like to keep things 
moving ahead, he added.
In addition to his teaching, Kraemer does 
research in the field erf high energy physics. 
He is currently working on a project with 
the German National Electron Accelerator 
Facility in which he studies the properties of 
ground and excited states of upsilon 
mesons. The project is a collaborative effort 
among American and European groups, 
including two other CMU professors, 
Arnold Engler and Fredric Messing.
To Kraemer, the teaching award is of 
secondary importance. A better measure of 
his success is the success of the courses which 
he teaches, and the amount that the students 
leam. If the student^ get something out erf 
the class, said Kraemer, then he is satisfied.
In this issue
Editorial
Plaid fever...........................................page 2
News
Nate discusses the issues..................page 7
AMS gets a new head.......................page 9
Entertainment
Gang of Four interviewed..............page 19
Who concert reviewed.....................page 19
Sports
Football team destroys Thiel .... page 23 
Soccer team loses close one............page 23
Special Homecoming schedule... page 15

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.____________________ :
Homecoming: more than alumni's trip down memory lane
Hom'kum'ing nl.a coming or returning to 
ones home. 2. in many colleges and universi
ties, an annual celebration attended by alumni.
The scene: a brisk October afternoon, crim
son, gold, and russet dust the threatening blue 
sky. Spurts of bass drum, horn, and cheers are 
audible as we approach the crowded stadium. 
Tartan kilts peer beyond, knitted scarves, plaid 
caps, and thick wool sweaters that say Carne
gie -Mellon University.
It is homecoming again.
So what.
Whats that you say?
I said, so what! Nobody cares about home
coming but the A lumni Office. It's a good way 
to squeeze those corporate heads for a few 
bucks while theyre vulnerable.
Vulnerable?
Either theyre so choked up over sentimental 
memories that they give whatever their fat little 
wallets have to offer, or theyre so sloshed from 
after-the-game bashes that they write a blank 
check.
Thats pretty cynical.
So, everyone is cynical about homecoming.
Wrong.
Who isnt cynical?
The alumni, you moron.
So leave the alumni to their homecoming,
and dont bother me with the alma mater, and 
the fight for the glory of Carnegie, and the 
Tartan. TARTAN! Everything on this cam
pus is Scottish! Either its plaid or green or its 
named after Andrew Carnegies rocking chair.
You know what your problem is? You 
have no school spirit.
How can I have school spirit when Im up to 
my armpits in homework.
Youve got the wrong idea.
No I dont, I want to get a job when I 
graduate.
Of course. Then you must want to leam as 
much as you can here, right?
Well, I never miss a class; I always sit in the 
front row of my lectures, and I always turn in a 
neat and complete . . .
You dont leam everything on this campus 
by doing homework or attending lectures.
What do you mean? Thats what college is 
all about isnt it?
Sure. You sit in your cubicle ^nd nerd or 
hack or cram or whatever, and you never inte
ract with people. You never debate ideas, share 
oudooks, or just put your work aside to take a 
walk around the campus.
I think
Do you? What organizations are you 
involved with this semester?
Me? I dont have time to waste on clubs.
Why do you call it wasted time? Ill tell 
you. Time is wasted to you if it is spent on 
something that will not benefit you, and you 
think that campus clubs wont benefit you.
They wont.
They will. You say you want a job when you
graduate.
Yes.
The working world is not that different 
from the CMU community. Part of college is 
learning to interact with many different kinds 
of people. You must leam how to draw knowl
edge and cooperation from every type of 
human resource you encounter. You must 
leam how to be responsible for things because 
people are depending on you not just because 
some professor holds a grade over your head.
Oh. But what about my QPA?
Employers arent idiots. Your QPA is a 
number, thats all. It's a yardstick that says 
youre in the running. Talk to the alumni, 
theyll tell you how important it is to be an 
individual.
What does all this have to do with 
homecoming.
Look around. The people that feel good 
about CMU, and enjoy events like homecom
ing and spring carnival are the same people 
that have found a place for themselves at CMU 
to fit in and get involved.
... I may have a little time this weekend. 
Maybe Ill stop by the Ox roast, and I guess 
having plaid as the school color isnt SO bad.
It is individualistic, dont you think?
I do like Camegie-Mellon.
My heart is in the work.
Who said that?
Who do you think?
Give me a hint. Was it an alumnus?
Shortsightedness and inconsistency cause escort problems
By Christopher Johnston
Early last, week, at about 1:55 A.M., I 
plodded from the library to Skibo, hoping to 
take an Escort van to my apartment. But to 
my mild consternation, I found two stu^ dents pounding on the Skibo 
door.
Since the Escort attendent was 
ignoring the two pounders, (her 
feet were propped up on the desk, but the 
rest of her body was hidden by the comer), a 
janitor came to the door and informed the 
students that Escort was closed for the 
evening.
But Escort isnt supposed to close until 
2:30!, shrieked one of the students. While 
they proceeded to haggle with the janitor 
and finally, the attendent, I picked up the 
campus police phone and calmly explained
the situation to the police dispatcher.
But Escort isnt supposed to close until 
2:30, she said. Reacting quickly to my plea 
for help, she attempted to call the attendent 
on the telephone and radio. Unfortunately, 
she had disconnected both. By this tme the 
other students had left in despair.
After a minute, a police van screeched to 
the scene, and an officer jumped out. He 
opened the door with his key and strode 
inside with me trailing behind him. When 
the attendent caught sight of the policeman, 
her job flashed before her eyes. The janitor 
quickly mopped his way around the comer 
and out of sight.
Hey, said the officer, did you know 
that your radio and telephone are discon
nected? And why are you closed? Escort 
doesnt close until 2:30.
Yea, I snarled.
The attendent explained that she stopped 
taking calls at 2:00 since the van drivers had 
to punch out at 3:00. The officer and I 
agreed that there was still no reason why I 
couldnt be taken home before 2:30, but 
rather wait for the van, they were kind 
enough to take me home themselves.
My question is, why cant Escort function 
according to the rules that it lays down 
itself? The answer seems to be money. Driv
ers must be off the clock by 3:00, so they need 
leeway to make sure that they are.
Another question is why doesnt Escort 
operate 24 hours? The answer again is 
budget. Sources estimate that adding 
another shift would cost at least $50,000 and 
obviously that is too much just to protect a 
few students. The sources go on to add that
Escort expects a budget cut, so the existing 
services are also in danger.
However, President Cyert stated to tfief 
Editor-in-Chief of the Tartan that there 
would be no budget cuts in Securtiy. Escort 
is under Securitys direction.
Whats the deal? Its time to moralize. I 
think it would be insane to cut back Escort 
any further. Its dangerous enough for offcampus students to walk home late at night, 
especially if theyre helpless little wimps like 
me, so why increase the danger?
Chris Johnston is a sophmore majoring 
in creative writing and is a columnist for 
The Tartan.Thelartm
SGA president responds to letters
By Nate Solano
I discussed the proposed alcohol policy 
with Dr. Cyert this past week. What he 
emphasized was the fact that this policy is 
proposed and merely proposed.
* He was infact rather annoyed 
that campus organizations 
including some branches of the 
administration had already 
implemented this yet nonexistent policy. 
Dr. Cyert is still very open to student opin
ion on this matter. I heartily encourage you 
to drop him a note expressing your position 
on the proposed alcohol policy.
Although I attempted to emphasize the 
point that our present policy requires little 
or no revision, I believe that a heavy student 
response would actually influence the final 
decision on this matter. If not well have a 
beer test (Remember the arid tests of the 
sixties?) Few the serious side of this week see 
accompanying interview.
Now for what youve all been waiting for: 
Dear Nate,
Why dont you organize a year when the 
dramats & engineers switch buildings  let 
us go to classes in the Fine Arts building and 
make them go to classes in beautiful Wean 
Hall!
Im sick of having recitation in the echo 
chambers that are called classrooms and 
walking down the halls with unfinished 
ceilings, floors, and cement block walls 
while they are walking around in marble. 
Doesnt anyone think that Engineers or 
Scientists can appreciate architechture! Face 
it, Wean Hall is ugly and DESERVES its 
name!
A Sophomore ChE
Dear Sophomore ChE,
Your idea is well received. I intend to carry 
out this program in conjunction with a trad
ing of administration offices with student 
offices. Lets see how the Provost likes the 
Skibo basement!
Dear Nate,
I have noticed a decided lack of graffiti on 
campus this year and I consider it my duty as
a student to suggest some possibilities:
1.) Do up the Pig!
2.) Hairdressers blow dry!
3.) What do I look like? A thesaurus?
4.) My dog has no nose. How does he 
smell? He can't because he doesnt have a 
nose.
5.) Knowledge is Knowledge and vice 
versa.
Harold and his Purple Crayon 
Design 85
Dear Harold,
Although I cannot condone the defacing 
of our beautiful campus, Im sure there are 
others who do.
I almost forgot, office hours will be from 
3:00 to 5:00 Wednesday and 7:00 to 9:00 on 
Thursday. If you cannot contact me during 
these times I can be found at 687-6404.1 am 
open to any concern. ^
Nate Solano is a junior majoring in AMS 
and is president of the Student Government.
Editor-in-Chief.................................Alice Alfonsi
Managing Editor............................Vince Guinto
Editorial Assistant..........................Gregg Bossier
Business Manager..........................Louise Croooll
News Editor...................................Monica Cellio
Features Editor................................ Geof Becker
Entertainment Editor.....................Susan Petrie
Sports Editor.....................................Jeff Bergmar
Photography Editor.........................John Stilwell
Art Director.....................................Diane Thodos
Production Manager...............Carolyn Speranza
Typesetting Manager.......................Patti Carlisle
Associate News Editor.............Joanne Savinell
Assoc Photo Editor.........................Gene Yonish
Asst Ent Editor..............................John Cantine
Asst Spoils Editor............................Ric Medrow
Asst Business Mgr....................Kathleen Wasch
Production Staff: Peter Bain, Margaret Eissler, 
Andrew Ghali, Pauline Kramer, Ross Serin, J11! 
Siegel, Carsten Thode, Bonnie Topf, and Pauline 
Wen.
Copyright  1982 by The Tartan. The Editorial Boart 
reserves the right to withhold from publication aiv 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial Off** 
Skibo 50. (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo S 
(412) 578-2111. 24 hour phone, (412) 578-2113. MaiM 
address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh PA 1^213 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

October 5, 1982The TartanPage 3
Letters
Responsibility: frat pins tell all
Editor:
I would also like to comment on the state 
of affairs at Camegie-Mellon concerning 
our fraternities. Tom Sullivans letter in last 
weeks Tartan certainly presented a clear 
point of view on the non-frat view of life. I, 
as a non-fraternity person, would like to 
present a fraternity related incident that hap
pened last weekend, that can perhaps shed 
light on the side of frat life that usually isnt 
publicized.
Last Saturday night I was returning from 
a late night social activity involving alcohol 
and friends. Some friends and myself hap
pened to congregate in front of a certain 
mellow frat, one that takes a lot of shit from 
the others. Gradually they wandered off, all 
except for two girls. It was about 2:30. We 
were having a very relaxed conversation and 
really enjoying the weekend. It was about 
that time that two Kappa Sigma pledges
> came over and began to hassle one of the 
girls.
It seemed to me that the two boys, 
equipped with pledge pins and all, had been
drinking and had probably failed to score a 
pickup for the night, and that was the rea
son for their obnoxious behavior. They 
repeatedly stated that her cigarette was 
going to kill her and that she was a stupid 
bitch. I politely told them that there was no 
reason for their malicious actions and asked 
them that they please shut up or leave.
The girl, who had been very tolerant to 
their behavior decided to leave. Some time 
later she returned and said that the two 
brothers had followed her around the quad 
taunting and swearing at her. I know that 
situations like this are not directly related to 
the Greek way of life but how can you say 
that people and their organizations are not 
responsible for their actions when they are 
standing in front of you, wearing decals 
symbolizing their responsbility to uphold 
their frats rules and regulations.
Of course a fraternity cant take responsi
bility for things like this, but maybe they 
contribute to the frame of mind that leads to 
disrespectful and deplorable actions.
Andrew Hudson
Protect innocent, annual discipline process
Editor:
Most students and campus personnel, 
being the law-abiding citizens that we know 
they all are, have never been involved in the 
? disciplinary process. Consequently, very lit
tle thought is given to this process by the 
campus community at large. After all, what 
is there to worry about? The worst youve 
ever done is guzzle a few beers, right? (Even 
that has become a serious crime recently.)
Well, this may be a rude awakening for 
some of you, but you dont have to be guilty 
of a crime to be accused of one. This can be 
anything from phone harassment to 
murder. While being accused may occur 
anywhere that you may go, it holds particu
lar dangers here at CMU.
The Disciplinary Committee, which 
takes an adamant stand against being called 
a court process: It is not a United States court 
of law. While the process does try to protect 
the Constitutional rights of both the defend
ant and his/her accusor, there is no guaran
tee that this will be the case. It is entirely 
possible for a student to be expelled from the 
university for a crime of which there is 
nothing but circumstantial evidence against 
him.
When there is a risk of your future being 
permanently damaged or even destroyed,
when you are being found guilty or inno
cent of a crime, it is hard to refer to the 
disciplinary committee as anything but a 
court process. I state therefore that Discipli
nary Hearing is just another name for a 
process which is acting as a court of law and 
that legalities are the only thing preventing 
it from being labeled as such.
In recognition of this, should students be 
forced to account for every minute of their 
days with witnesses and alibis in order to 
protect themselves from false accusation? Is 
guilty until proven innocent the coming 
trend? I would suggest that the validity of 
accusations be established before any action 
is taken which may upset the life of an inno
cent student.
I would also recommend that the commit
tee recognize the fact that many crimes are 
beyond their power to deal with either fairly 
or effectively, such as aggravated assault, 
rape, and other violent crimes. We must not 
forget that the members of the Disciplinary 
Committee are not lawyers or judges, and 
generally have no more knowledge of law 
than you or I.
The committee is unprepared to handle 
most serious crimes, which should imme
diately be referred to Pittsburgh city police, 
who are properly trained to insure clue 
process.
I cannot state where this cutoff point on 
crimes within the universitys jurisdiction 
should be, that would be for an amend
ment process to decide. I am just saying that 
it needs to be done. The point of this letter is 
to help protect the innocent students. After 
all, an innocent person who has been 
accused of a crime is undeniably a victim.
Unless it has happened to you personally, 
you cannot imagine how deeply your health 
and sanity can be affected by the trauma. 
The least that we can ask is that the accused 
be made confident on the fairness of the 
treatment he is receiving and that his rights 
will be protected.
A Formerly Accused Student
Mike Davidson 
Junior Ardi.
Stahl, Safier accused of incompetence
Editor:
There is one reason that always comes up 
when trying to find the cause of apathy 
towards student government. Student 
Senate is an ineffectual body that doesnt 
really serve anyone. It is true Senate is not 
the most effective governing body to grace 
the Earth by its presence.
The design of Senate might be partly to 
blame, but there are other reasons that can
Pi Lam vice-pres referees debate
Editor
Alas, it seems that the letter wars of past 
years have opened up a new front. Pre
viously, there were the moderately humor
ous debates between the students of CIT and 
those of H&SS, or even the heated argu
ments amongst the fruits and the vegeta
bles in 1979. Now the front has shifted to 
the pros and cons of being Greek or being 
independent.
Now, I really dont want to add any fuel to 
the fire, but I do think that a litde bit of 
refereeing seems called for. Ill also limit 
myself to relevant issues, not with such 
absurd items as being equated with the peo
ple of Nazi Germany.
Mr. Laughlin and Mr. Sullivan, you say 
you prefer not to join one of CMUs twelve 
fraternities. Fine. However, after pointing 
out how many more independents than 
there are Greeks, you say:
Svhy dont they (Greeks) adapt to our way 
of life?
My question is: why should anyone have 
to adapt to anybody elses lifestyle? Those of 
us who are Greeks are so because we choose 
to be. Just as you are independents
because you, too, choose to be. The impor
tant thing is that the opportunities are there 
for those who want them. The choice you 
make does not mean that you are any better, 
or any worse, than those people who decide 
to choose differently from you.
One final note: it is true that along with 
the choice of joining a fraternity goes a lot of 
responsibility. On this point I refer you to 
last weeks letter from the Brothers of Delta 
Upsilon. They said it better than I ever 
could.
Stephen L. Schoch 
Vice-President 
Pi Lambda Phi Fraternity
be corrected to help expedite decision mak
ing in the Senate. Stall tactics, and argument 
of minor points of parlimentary procedure 
have been abused by two senators, Andy 
Stahl and Scott Safier, (as well as Scott Safiers alternate).
For example, last Tuesday, Mr. Stahl 
presented the two most blatant examples of 
such abuse that most will ever witness. First 
Mr. Stahl made the motion to reconsider the 
minutes for the election erf the two CFA 
Senate seats open, (there were two candi
dates running); Mr. Safiers alternate 
seconded the motion. Later in the meeting, 
Mr. Stahl introduced a motion to censure 
Ms. Sabadell, a CIT Senator, for various 
violations of standing committee procedure.
Eventually the discussion turned into a 
shouting match between Mr. Stahl and Ms. 
Sabadell, with Mr. Stahl doing all of the 
shouting. About this point I left the meet
ing, too disgusted with Mr. Stahls actions.
illegal according to the constitution or 
Roberts Rules, he is pushing his luck. Laws 
and rules exist in order to make life run a bit 
more smoothly, but laws are never perfect, 
and that is when something called ethics 
come into play.
There are many cases where a person 
acted legally, but not ethically, (Hitler, 
McCarthy, etc.). The maturity erf a person 
should permit him to stay within ethical 
bounds. The United Kingdom does not 
have a written constitution, but they run 
more smoothly that Senate has been 
recendy.
Mr. Stahl and Mr. Safier ought to act 
more mature and take up their complaints 
with the object erf their distress off the Floor. 
Keep the Senate for real business, not having 
to act like a big brother for solving their 
personal problems.
Jeremy A. Theil 
Junior Metallurgical EngineerNow while Mr. Stahl has done nothing
New CFA senator greets constituents
Editor
Hello CFA students and all others con
cerned. I am writing this letter to let you 
know that I am your new student senator
Stahl suggests senate start working
Editor
I think the time is ripe at CMU for the 
Student Government to do something 
worthwhile for the benefit of the students. 
During my tenure on Student Senate, I have 
aquired a reputation erf being polictical 
minded. I also have aquired a reputation of 
ruthlessness. I do not deny that some degree 
of these charges are true.
I also feel that during my tenure on 
Senate, very littie has been accomplished by 
my detractors. Tuition has gone up, Food 
Service has not improved and now we have 
mandatory meal contracts for some CMU 
students. Housing is still a joke. It is about 
time that the Senate and Student Govern
ment switch its methods.
continued on peg 17
along with somebody else, I have no idea 
who. If you have any idea, my office hours 
are Mondays 3-4. Come on by and keep me 
company, we can talk about art or student 
politics and blow off an hour erf otherwise 
meaningful productive time.
As far as what I stand for, I am still pretty 
open to new ideas, and feel that the facts 
involved in current issues must be weighed 
objectively, meaning that I must divorce 
myself from any pre-conceptions I might 
have.
However, one of the things I do believe in 
is communication with the students. Per17

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanOctober 5, 1982
Grey matter changes camouflage need for student union
By Paul Spillane
At last! A hot, current, and controversial 
topic of concern to the entire university com
munity. Recendy, the Planning Office has 
indicated its desire to remove the gray matj\ ter, and possibly replace it with a
. lounge. I would like to add my
^ voice to the large chorus all
around campus in saying Save 
the gray matter!
We like our gray matter. During the plan
ning directors "brown bag input lunch 
Wednesday, a great many students expressed 
their fondness for the area. Most of the peo
ple I talked to share this feeling. On the 
subject, the hackers BBOARD contains 
nothing but pleas to save the gray matter. 
I have enthusiastically signed a petition ded
icated to this purpose, and encouraged the 
outraged student to continue the fight.
They want to put in real furniture. Were at 
college! Go home if you need real furniture. 
The gray matter is a functional work of art. 
It is sculpture, and it is unique enough to 
save. The name alone simultaneously 
implies a tribute to the intellectual commit
ment at CMU, and is a parody of the entire, 
sometimes overly cerebral, atmosphere here. 
It is also a just-plain-pleasant place to rest or 
n . .. . friends. GRAY MATTER IS FUN! It 
is an extremely popular area, and I know of 
several persons who would like to chain 
themselves to it in order to save it.
At the same time, a fact which is becom
ing increasingly accepted by both students 
and administration, is that a central lounge 
area is necessary. However, the present prop
osal falls far short of fulfilling our needs. 
The lounge area needed should be available 
at all hours of the day and night, and should 
be away from heavy traffic areas. It should be 
a place to relax and socialize, with activities, 
music, and yes, even a television. Isolated
residence hall lounges are also necessary, but 
cannot take the place of a central lounge. 
Clearly, the gray matter is not an ideal site 
for such a lounge. In addition, there are 
many further needs which can only be ful
filled by (drumroll)... yes! a Student Union.
The student body has known this for a 
long time, but now the administration has 
taken an important, and irreversible step in 
the right direction. With this proposal, they
have legitimized the students claim of the 
necessity of a Student Union. If the students 
persist, there can now be no way that the 
administration can deny us our need.
The first step has been taken. Now all that 
remains is to work out the specific details of 
location, funding, design specifications, etc. 
The gray matter proposal is merely an 
attempt to appease and quiet our cries for a
Union! Send letters to The Tartan and to 
the administration, and make our wishes 
heard en masse. Bury the gray matter reno
vation, and demand our Student Union. 
The time is long overdue, and is finally at its 
climax.
Paul Spillane is a freshman majoring in 
the Social Sciences and is a columnist for 
The Tartan.
A little extra padding means more to love
By Catherine Stroud Vodrey
Fat. Its the universal female ailment. We 
all have it, and will gladly point it out to 
you, especially if you say, Well, you look 
fine to me. No, no, no, we protest; cant you
-y see? I have such a fat--------------
(fill in the blank).
 Just go up to any girl you
know  even the skinniest 
freshman blonde  and ask her if she thinks 
shes fat. Responses will range from, God, 
yes! to Well, I could stand to lose a few 
pounds here. The latter is said while pok
ing the nicest thighs since Cheryl Tiegs.
Since no one wants to be fat, everyone has 
their own litde system for losing weight. 
None of them work, believe me. You have to 
have the patience and forbearance of a saint 
to lose more than two pounds and (heres 
the clincher) keep it off.
What happens then is that, at the begin
ning of a diet, you are all gung-ho and 
think,OK. This is it. Ten pounds, gone 
forever! Remember the Alamo! Then that 
evening, you indulge in some Mint Milanos 
or ice cream because your roommate got an 
A on her psychology test. Then you feel 
guilty for the rest of the evening.
Then you indulge some more because, 
what the hell, once youve blown it, theres
no fixing things. Then you go through a 
defiant stage, where you think, If people 
dont like me just the way I am, then they are 
just shallow and not worth knowing.
Sometimes youll see this gorgeous girl 
wandering around, and it will occur to you 
that no one had informed you that Bo Derek 
was attending CMU. Then you find out that 
this nymph is in your English class. You 
walk in one day to find her talking about 
having to lose ten pounds over Christmas 
break. Im sooo fat, she moans, batting 
her eyes. Oh, yeah? you snarl inwardly. 
Where do you keep it, in your backpack?
Whats even more irritating is when 
someone looks as though ten more pounds
would put them about on a par with 
Twiggy. As it is, they look positively mal
nourished, yet consume more daily quanti
ties of food than you thought possible for a 
human being. They continually complain 
that they cant seem to gain any weight. 
Most of us would gladly trade some of our 
weight for some of their skinny.
Not many of us, though, are really over
weight; almost anybody looks better about 
ten pounds over their ideal weight. 
Besides, whats the problem? Theres just 
more of you to love.
Catherine Stroud Vodrey is a sophomore 
majoring in creative writing and is a colum
nist for The Tartan.Some CMU gripes
By Doug Blair
1. 8 opinion articles in one issue? This is a 
newspaper, not a billboard! Im as guilty as 
anybody else, (I think I wrote 4 opinion 
articles last year), theres something wrong 
^ with a newspaper concerned 
ByP with brownies and socks in the
/p first 5 pages. If you want to pay
for that with your activities fee, 
fine. Its your money, your paper; itll get 
better when people put more into it, and get
worse when people put less into it. (That 
was pretty profound, huh?) r;
2. Mr. Keegan should join the Army if he 
wants to leam how to get along with others. 
Frats have a place here, and it is better for the 
campus for them to be here, but Ill be 
damned if Ill listen to his patronizing atti
tude toward us independents who (social 
outcasts all), cant get along with others.
3. Nobody cares about economics, Wayne.
continued on page 17
DO IT AGAIN
SENIOR RETAKES WILL BE TAKEN OCT. 19- 
22; FROM 8-5 PM. PLEASE SIGN UP NEAR 
SKIBO INFORMATION DESK.
GREEKS
HOMECOMING
CANDIDS ARE NOW BEING ACCEPTED 
ESPECIALLY FROM 'THE BEST HOUSE 
CONTEST". PLEASE CONSULT YOUR HIS
TORIAN/PHOTOGRAPHER FOR DETAILS
IS THIS WEEKEND!
PLEASE FEEL FREE TO SUBMIT ANY OR ALL 
OF YOUR CANDIDS FROM THIS ANNUAL 
GALA EVENT.
The Thistle Staff Appreciates Your Support 
Skibo Room 46A
FUNDED BY ACTIVITIES FEE

---------------------------------------------------

October 5, 1982The TartanPage 5
Introducing...
NOW
Twentieth-century American 
composers and highlights of 
Pittsburghs musical heritage 
performed by members of the
PITTSBURGH 
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
Conducted by 
John Harbison & Michael Lankester
Sat., October 16 
. Works by VICTOR HERBERT  
CHARLES IVES  JOHN HARBISON
Sun., October 17
. Works by JOHN CAGE  WILLIAM 
THOMAS MCKINLEY  JOHN PEEL 
. WALTER PISTON
8 p.m., Morris Kaufmann Aud.,
Jewish Community Center, Oakland 
Tickets: $10,7-50% student discount 
Heinz Hall Box Office, Kaufmann's,
U. of Pgh., Duquesne U., CMU, & at 
the door eve. of performances
For Information, Call 281-5000
STUDENTS
50% discount 
on sale at Student Union
A year abroad
Crecine compares life at CMU and Cambridge
VINTAGE CLOTHIER
D
NONVMOUS
284 Morewood at Centre 681-9387 
I2-6 Tues.-Fri. II-6 Sat.
Pastrami King Restaurant
5125 Baum Blvd 
Tel. 687-5099
Open Mon. through Sat.
7 AM to 9 PM
Famous for our Gyros 
Variety of Sandwiches 
and our delicious Cheesecake 
Also Take-out orders
By LAURA GOLOWICH
Tartan Staffwriter
Cambridge students do less work than 
CMU students, asserted John P. Crecine, 
Dean of H & SS. Crecine spent his sabbatical 
last year as a visiting fellow at Cambridge 
University in England, conducting research 
on such topics as federal fiscal budget pol
icy, and theories of organizauons.
At Cambridge, according to Crecine, the 
faculty members, or fellows, of the Univer
sity give lectures, administer exams, and do 
research. Everything else, he said is done for
Job prospects 
dim for Chem E's
By TINA ELLERBEE
Tartan Staffwriter
Chances that seniors at CMU may face 
unemployment upon graduation are 
increasing as economic conditions continue 
to affect hiring for entry level jobs.
The number of job interviews is already 
lower than normal, and Dennis Ryan, direc
tor of Career Placement and Planning, fore
sees a continuation of this trend. My guess 
is that well see the amount of interviews 
down 20%, he said.
How long this situation will last is not 
known. Most employers point toward the 
first of the year. Unless there is an economic 
upturn, things dont look promising, 
stated Ryan. He predicted that if positive 
signs begin to show, companies will be 
scrambling to hire.
The oudook is worse for some majors 
than others. According to Ryan, chemical 
engineers and chemistry majors are bearing 
the brunt of the recession as oil and chemical 
companies curtail recruitment. The effect of 
this is to make competition tougher all 
around, as chemical engineers turn to other 
industries for jobs.
Some majors have apparendy not been 
affected. Electrical engineers and Applied 
Math-Computer Science majors havent 
seen a change in hiring since 1981. Job offers 
for H&SS majors havent declined, and AMS 
offers increased last spring.
students by their separate colleges. The col
leges admit the students, and provide them 
with housing, athletic activities, and 
tutorials.
There is less contact with members of the 
faculty than it would appear, said Crecine. 
The tutorials, he said, are nearly all run by 
graduate students rather than the fellows.
According to Crecine, all of a students 
work is oriented to exams given only once a 
year in May. Those yearly exams alone 
count for credit toward graduation, which is 
after 3 years. If a student fails an exam, said 
Crecine, he will most likely be sent down, 
or expelled.
However, Crecine noted, Cambridge stu
dents dont seem to work as hard as the 
students here. They talk to the tutors and 
do some problem sets, but there are fewer 
concrete assignments, he said. He 
that the atmosphere is more relaxed, but that 
there is the usual panic in May.
Most of the students, said Crecine, come 
from privileged, upper class backgrounds, 
and bring cultural awareness and intellec
tual breadth with them. He noted that the 
opportunity for an education at Cambridge 
is not denied to students from less privileged 
backgrounds, but that to a large extent there 
is self-selection. The upper class children 
train to go on to a school such as Cambridge 
from the time they are 12 years old, Crecine 
said, while most of the other children are not 
encouraged to try.
A Cambridge education, said Crecine, is 
"very narrow. The English, he said, dont 
believe in Liberal Arts. By age 15, most 
students are already taking courses in only 2 
or 3 subjects.
The faculty of the college, according to 
Crecine, is heterogeneous. Half of them Cre
cine described as first-rate  they do 
research and use the University as a base. 
The other half, he said, are members of the 
community who have been around for a 
long time, and are not particularly 
outstanding.
There was often a lot of feuding between 
faculty members, Crecine noted. Every even
ing, the fellows would dine together at what
was called High Table, where, he said, 
they would delight in passing snide 
remarks back and forth.
Crecine noted that his year at Cambridge 
caused him to realize the uniqueness of 
CMUs interdisciplinary programs, where 
comunication across different departments 
takes place easily.
Goals for H 8c SS, said Crecine, include
maintaining the interdisciplinary nature of 
the programs of the college, and perhaps 
adopting some features of the English tutor
ial system, such as a greater degree of contact 
between students and faculty.
However, said Crecine, CMU already sur
passes Cambridge in this area. The grad 
student buffer, he said, is to a greater 
extent used there.
The finest collection of Antique 
Clothing From 1890-1950.
FOR LADIES & GENTS
P. CRECINE

---------------------------------------------------

AB Concerts presents:
Saturday, October 16,1982 8 PM CMU gym
' *
 ' -
General admission tickets  4 tickets per person
$8.50 w/CMU student ID 
$10 w/CMU staff ID 
$11 general public
Tickets available at 10 AM tomorrow for CMU people at 
Skibo Information Desk. Any remaining tickets will be avail
able Thursday morning at Jim's Records and Skibo.
Listen to WRCT, 88.3 FM for more details.
Funded by activities fee

---------------------------------------------------

October 5, 1982The TartanPage 7
Money, booze, and_ hackers
President Nate discusses campus issues
photo by Tocki Prario
NATE SOLANO
What has Nate Solano, president of stu
dent government, accomplished so far in his 
term, and what are his future goals? Tartan 
News Editor Monica J. Cellio recently inter
viewed Solano to answer these questions 
and discuss issues such as alcohol, housing, 
money, and computers.
Tartan: Nate, what have you done for the 
students this year since you were elected in 
April?
Solano: How long have we been in 
school?
Tartan: Four to five weeks.
Solano: Weve been in here that long? 
Okay. Good enough. Well, I have two com
mittees that were just appointed. One is to 
battle the raises in tuition or at least identify 
where the raises are necessary and hopefully 
do a better job of dealing with tuition hikes 
than last years committee, which met the 
morning before we had to go visit Cyert. 
Hopefully that will be a standing committee 
eventually.
Cyerts hit the students in 
their escape and theyre 
likely to bring on some bad 
publicity after that. I think 
its sad that alcohol is one 
of the few things thats 
going to unify the students 
to protest.
The other committee I appointed was to 
begin a judicial branch. We had so many 
problems with the Senate last year and inter
pretation of the constitution and everything 
else. The judicial branch hopefully will 
interpret the constitution and provide a 
check in the balance for the senate. I got this 
idea last year and Janelle Molloy 
approached me with the same idea. I said 
great! Two people have the same idea so go 
for it. So this summer I went to Washington, 
D. C. to a student convention. I got Dean 
Cox to send me using my presidential 
budget that Steve Smith barely touched last 
year. I did a lot of research there for a week at 
this convention .. .ASA, American Student 
Association convention, and I checked with 
a lot of people to see about judicial proce
dure, to see if they have judicial branches. 
They have fully developed judicial branches 
of checks and balances. They often had a 
very strong executive branch which I hope 
to get on to after this because its important 
that all three branches exist and all three 
provide a balance of power. I think that will 
end up helping the students a lot more in 
the end.
Office hours have been getting a good 
response. Last year they didnt get a good 
response becasue it was just at the end of the 
year but this year Ive had several people 
coming in to thank me for issues theyve 
worked on that Ive actually been able to 
affect. I hope so.
Tartan: Are the students who come to the 
office hours people who show up at senate 
meetings, or are they just random people 
who read you in The Tartan?
Solano: No, not at all. Theyve been really 
random people. Ive been really happy 
about that because Ive never seen these peo
ple at senate meetings. One came interested 
in painting a mural so I got Dean Walter 
informed about that and hopefully hes 
going to get to do a mural either in Skibo or 
in the Academic Advisory office. I hope so. A 
lot of people came concerning the alcohol
policy. You have to expect that.
Tartan: Did they all get beer?
Solano: Yeah. A lot got beer. I had a good 
time that day. Ive got pictures. But, as for 
the alcohol policy, I havent really written 
anything to affect it because right now Im 
no better informed on it than The Tartan is 
and we wouldnt want to bore people with 
simultaneous articles.
I talked to Cyert this week and I guess he 
found me out. Its still a proposed policy and 
I think by exerting some pressure in his way, 
or not really even pressure, but just letting 
him know what the students really think 
about it, hell be willing to make it a lot 
more gende than it is right now. And I think 
it will be very reasonable in the end. I dont 
think at all he wants to upset the students 
because he knows this is a nerve. Hes hit the 
students in their escape and theyre likely to 
bring on some bad publicity after that. I 
think its sad that alcohol is one of the few 
things thats going to unify the students to 
protest.
Tartan: Does this mean we dont get our 
24 hour liquor store in the Margaret Morri
son storefronts?
Solano: Yeah, Im afraid so. Afraid zoning 
laws prohibit it. Lets see .. .what else hap
pened? I wrote a letter to President Reagan 
asking him to come and address us on his 
educational policies, why hes taking all the 
money away from education. And I said 
come and address us; well be happy to have 
a forum, and I got a letter back today and he 
said, Im sorry; he cant make it.
Tartan: Going back to tuition for a min
ute  do you think students have a reasona
ble chance of affecting the decision that was 
made last March? Or are you going to wait 
for next year?
Solano: Truthfully, I doubt it. Well try. I 
think its just the beginning of this year and 
that wont go into effect until next year and 
thats such a long time that perhaps we can 
affect it. Now Im not sure how the budget 
runs or how the administration runs on this. 
Were going to give it our best shot and if 
students are up for a rally of any sort well do 
that.
Were going to appeal to the alumni  
this is Homecoming coming up. And thats 
another thing I learned in Washington; at a 
private school about your only advantage of 
power is appealing to the alumni. Because 
the alumni are the people who give us a lot 
of money, they can affect the decisions made 
by the administration because we depend on 
them so much for so much money. And so I 
hope to appeal to the alumni this year, 
maybe with a letter writing campaign, 
maybe with a phone-in campaign.
Another thing students might want to 
consider is a boycott of the things they do at 
the campus or on the campus for free. I 
mean by this tour groups, either for parents 
or alumni, the tours they give around the 
campus, sleeping bag weekends  they 
might want to refuse to take freshmen on. 
Im not yet advocating this. . .
Tartan: Do you really think you could 
organise the students to do that?
Solano: Some way I think I could. Yeah. I 
really think that this is time the students 
quit giving themselves basically to the Uni
versity for free. I really dont think its going 
to hurt anybody that much to give updoing 
this. And like I say, Im not yet advocating it 
because the administration has, you know, 
theyve done their best to deal with us in a 
fair manner. This I would reserve for a final 
protest if we cant get anything done.
Tartan: Through thmgs like your office 
hours and Dear Nate and stuff like that, 
youre trying to make yourself more availa
ble to the students. Would you say that that
has been more successful than it has in the 
past?
Solano: Well, it hasnt been completely 
successful because, well, tonight youre the 
only one here; theres no one else here, so I 
cant say that people are booming or people 
are pounding on the door to get into office 
hours. Nonetheless, theyve become aware 
that they do have a president, that he is in the 
office almost all the time and that they can 
come and see him. And occassionally I do 
get some people, occassional ly I get a lot of 
people. So Im very happy with whats 
going on and I hope they continue to come.
Were in an age where you 
cant really afford to be 
conservative and you 
should be idealistic and Im 
really kind of disappointed 
in the people that they 
havent been.
Tartan: Are people taking you seriously?
Solano: Thats a problem right now 
because, no, I really dont think people are 
taking me seriously. I can attribute some of 
that to my Tartan articles; Ive been wasting 
time with them recendy but thats basically 
because I dont know any more than The 
Tartan knows right now and I will not 
blindly go into any subject; I want to be 
informed on it before I write about it. In the 
past, it has had some substance to it; you just 
have to be willing to look for it. This week it 
should have some good substance to it 
because some nasty things have happened 
over the week and I feel I can speak on it.
Tartan: What specifically?
Solano: The senate meeting got me very 
upset; so upset that for a split second I consi
dered resigning, lets say, and then I realized 
what Id be leaving the campus with if I did 
resign and I thought better of it. But Im 
somewhat insulted by the fact that the senate 
is such a conservative organization right 
now; so very conservative that they dont 
really want to let their ideals go and never
really go for it on any issue because theres 
an odd aura of peer pressure surrounding 
the senate for some reason. I sometimes 
think that if someone stood up and 
reminded them that they were conservatives 
they would vote conservatively on an issue. 
If someone would say Well Id like to com
ment that youre all conservatives and I just 
want you to remember that, theyd say, 
Oh yes youre right, we have to vote conser
vatively on an issue. And it upsets me 
because were in an age where you cant 
really afford to be conservative and you 
should be idealistic and Im really kind of 
disappointed in the people in that they 
havent been.
One thing Id point out is that we were 
interviewing people for these vacancies and 
we asked them all  I guess John Snyder 
asked them all, What are you looking for at 
CMU, whats your major goal? and all of 
them said Well, to get an education. And 
thats not bad except that there ought some
how to be more than an education; there 
ought to be a more rounded education, lets 
say. I guess were firmly embedded in the 
me generation in which everyones look
ing out for themself. And it disappoints me, 
because I believe your ideals often have to 
put above your ambitions and I wish some
one would, but I think thats going to be a 
while yet.
Tartan: Do you think the image of senate 
as a circus, as its been called, will change? 
Has it changed? Can it be changed?
Solano: Well, I thought it had changed 
until last Tuesdays meeting and then I real
ized that it really hadnt changed and I 
hadnt affected it at all and its still the zoo it 
was when I joined it, so.. .it hasnt changed 
yet and I hope it does change. God, please 
God, dear God, I hope it changes, because 
theres no way were going to get any respect 
until somebody gives us some respect and 
theres no way were going to get that respect 
from people until we become a respectable 
organization. Right now I look at senate as 
being a group of.. .how many senators do 
we have, I dont even know  37?
Tartan: Around that
Solano: Around 30 senators and all who 
basically hate one another. And they all still 
vote the same, thats what seems kind of 
continued on p0 8

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanOctober 5, 1982
Nate: combatting dissatisfaction and apathy
continued from page 7
funny. So I hope it changes; I dont think its 
changed as of yet.
Tartan: Do you think there's still a lot of 
student apathy toward senate and what it 
does? As much as when you took office?
Solano: I honestly dont know, because I 
wasnt in senate before I took office so I 
really don't know how many people 
approached us. Right now it seems my life is 
ruled by this job and people are constandy 
telling me what to do, people from all differ
ent directions are telling me what I should 
say, what I should write, what should be 
done on campus, so I feel pretty busy right 
now and it feels like everyone is approach
ing me. But I really cant compare that to 
last year when I wasnt in senate. Anything 
else?
Tartan: What do you think of the major 
issues that are going to be happening this 
year besides tuition?
Solano: Besides tuition? Well, the alcohol 
policys a big one. Youre going to assume 
that. Yeah, the alcohol policys a real big 
one. But I think thats going to be remedied. 
Its luck. One issue that Im interested in  
over the summer I got this, well, correspon
dences from the news services  something 
about we got a million dollar bond from 
Israel, proceeds of which will go to a scholar
ship fund. But they said its going to used for 
greening of the desert, thats the project 
theyre going to use it on; somebody said 
well paint it green. Well, that should be an 
issue but its not right now. I dont know if 
we still deal with South Africa but these still 
are big issues that affect students.
Whats going to be an issue? I mean, tui
tions always an issue, like you say. I think 
everybodys going to be interrelated around
tuition, student dissatisfaction where they 
dont think theyre getting their moneys 
worth.
I was talking to Cyert the other day about 
teachers and sometimes not getting good 
classes but hes honesdy, really honesdy, try
ing to do the best he can to make sure we get 
really good courses. I dont know if I should 
be sayng that; thats terrible, it sounds like 
Im patronizing Cyert. But he really gave me 
the impression that he was really saddened 
by the fact that we ever got bad classes.
I cant honesdy tell you what are going to 
be the big issues this year. I think a lot of 
them are going to, well, let me say for sure 
theyre going to revolve around money even
tually, around education cuts, around tui
tion raises, around not getting your moneys 
worth in certain fields..
Tartan: And do you think there's more 
student dissatisfaction now than, say, when 
you were here as a freshman?
Solano: More student dissatisfaction? No, 
I dont think theres any more student dissa
tisfaction than when I was a freshman. I was 
pretty dissatisfied as a freshman; in fact I 
almost transferred out. In fact sometimes I 
think I should have transferred out because I 
was all ready to go to Purdue but I didnt. 
After that things seemed to settle down 
somewhat. Id say theres always dissatisfac
tion floating around the University just 
because we have a pretty poor environment 
at this University. I was discussing that with 
somebody last night. The University is very 
good academically but the environment, the 
social life, just is not exciting at all. It just 
does not fill half of what a student should be 
doing so theres always dissatisfaction bred 
by the discontent with our surroundings.
Tartan: How would you suggest that the 
environment be altered ?
Solano: Well, thats a toughie! Because 
were really well entrenched in our environ
ment. We have to start looking towards the 
students. As Dean Walter said, Cyert has 
finally come up with a pretty firm commit
tment towards bettering academic life 
because were so much in the black now. Its 
not like were barely making it in the black 
any more. No, we are a rich university. I will 
say that; Cyert probably wont like that but I 
will say we are a pretty wealthy university.
The University is very 
good academically but the 
environment, the social life, 
just is not exciting at all. It 
just does not fill half of 
what a student should be 
doing, so theres always 
dissatisfaction.
And I think if you show some respect 
from the students and some committment 
towards the students I think theyll get a lot 
more satisfied if you start just making things 
fun for the students again; making a broad 
variety of activities available. This Toymaker and Son thing which they put out on 
the cut was great. I didnt get to watch the 
whole thing because I had classes during it 
but just the thought that cultural events are 
OGCuring around us . . . The housing office 
bought cheap seats to the symphony, that 
was real helpful in getting people to go to
the symphony; just making a lot more stu
dent activities available is whats necessary. 
Right now, believe it or not, Im attempting 
to negotiate with Miller beer compa y. 
They spend over 10 million dollars a year tor 
activities for students. Theyll underwrite all 
kinds of activities and theyll sponsor things 
and right now Im attempting to get in con
tact with them. I also met up with them at 
this convention in Washington and they 
seemed very interested in giving away 
money and Id be very pleased to take it and 
to put it towards student activities, whether 
it happens to be the National Lite Beer tug 
of war that they have or if it happens to be 
Studio wresding on the cut or just under
writing a lot of beer for a party. Im interested 
in maybe this going above the Universitys 
head and getting the money from other pla
ces and really just make a lot more activities 
available to the students. And hopefully let 
them have a good time.
Tartan: On another important issue  
the personal computer plan, how do you 
think that's going to affect student life?
Solano: Hah! If they really go for it, 
which I somehow doubt, they wont go 
quite as far as a computer in every room 
because I just dont think its feasible. Hon
estly I dont like the idea from the financial 
standpoint. I think its kind of useless to a lot 
of people. Nonetheless, I dont think it will 
affect student life at all, no more than a 
calculator has affected student life. I think 
itll just be another tool available to students 
that theyll use occasionally, hopefully, and 
itll just be second nature to them eventu
ally. Thats sad to say but like I say all my 
protest against computing just comes from 
the fact that we have to pay for them and I 
dont think theyre ready to take on compucontinued on page 18
Clogs, Casuals, Boots, 
Sandals and Accessories/
The Best Selection of Clogs 
For Women and Men
124Oakland Avenue Open Daily 10:00 A M. - 6:00 P M
621-2599 Saturdays: 11 00 A M - 6 00 P M
Hows Your Interviewing IQ?
The Office of Career Services and Placement will present a seminar on Hows Your Interviewing I Q? to be held on Thursday, October 7 at 7:30 p.m. in the Ballroom in Skibo.
Presenting their views of good 
interviewing techniques will be:
Luke Noggle, Westinghouse Electric 
Corporation 
Elizabeth Berkely, Hammermill Paper Co. 
Patrick Fallon, Mellon Bank
Time will be available for discussion and question. The 
program is open to the University community and all students 
are urged to attend.

---------------------------------------------------

October 5, 1982The TartanPage 9
WORLDS LEADER IN COMPUTER GRAPHICS
EVANS & SUTHERLAND, the worlds leader in interactive computer 
graphics systems, is seeking qualified electrical engineering and computer 
science graduates who are seeking a challenging work environment 
with excellent career opportunities.
Positions are available in electrical design, software design, scientific 
programming, systems programming, mechanical CAD/CAM, high 
speed analog design, and high speed analog processing. Entry level 
engineers join design teams with full engineering responsibilities for 
particular projects.
Evans & Sutherland is located in Salt Lake City within thirty minutes 
of some of the worlds finest skiing and minutes from a variety of 
cultural, sports and entertainment attractions.
If you are seeking the most advantageous work situation in which to 
continue to develop your skills and your experience, please sign up 
at the Placement Center to interview with us on October 13
If this interview date is not convenient, please send a resume to:
John M. Gray
580 Arapeen Drive
Salt Lake City, Utah 84108
Evans & Sutherland is an Equal Opportunity Employer
GENERAL INFORMATION
DISPLAY ADS
Display ads are $4.50 per column inch, minimum order 2 column 
inches. Special rates are available. There is a late submission 
charge.
Deadline: Tuesday before publication at 5:00 P.M.
CLASSIFIED ADS
Classifieds are $2.00 for I -20 words, $4.00 for 20-50 words, $8.00 for more 
than 50 words.
Deadline: Wednesday before publication at 5:00 P.M.
ANNOUNCEMENTS & EVENTS
Deadline: Wednesday before publication at 5:00 P.M.
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Deadline: Friday before publication at 5:00 P.M.
For Further information, contact Business Manager Louise Crocoll
Business hours: Tuesday 4:30>6:00 p.m.
Thursday 4:00-5:00 p.m.
Address: Box 17 Schenley Park/Skibo 50 & 52 
Phone: 578-2111
24 hour answering machine: 578-2113
Copy Camera work available at $ 1.25, $2.50, and $5.00 per shot depending on 
paper size.
- . v '  \AMS head discusses education and future
By JOHN CANTINE
Tartan Assistant Entertainment Editor
The AMS program has a new head this 
year. He is Professor Charles Kriebel, and 
his plans for the program should make 
AMS students very happy.
Kriebel has had a varied academic career. 
He studied, among other subjects, architec
ture and electrical engineering before receiv
ing his BS in Economics from the 
University of Pennsylvania in 1959.
He also spent several years in the U. S. 
Army Signal Corps, while continuing an 
education that led to an MA in Statistics 
from Penn in 1961.
He was then granted a Ford Fellowship to 
study at the Sloan School of Management at 
the Massachusetts Institutute of Technol
ogy. He graduated from MIT in 1964 with 
his PhD in Industrial Management.
He came to CMU in 1964 as an assistant 
professor at GSLA, and became a full profes
sor in 1970.
Kriebel sees many opportunities to 
revamp the AMS program. Though he 
agrees with the universitys approach, 
which gives the management student a 
broad liberal education, he would like to 
make AMS graduates more employable. 
The students education should be intellec
tually stimulating, Kriebel says. This is a 
university, not a trade school. But our stu
dents should be attractive to employers as 
well.
To this end, he not only plans to make 
some changes in the curriculum, but would 
like to improve his departments placement 
services. I want to see where our graduates 
are going, where the opportunities are, he 
said.
To aid in this, Kriebel envisions a series of 
seminars for first-vear AMS students, in
which the senior AMS faculty would expose 
the students to the various fields in the 
department  marketing and research, etc.
This would be followed in the junior and 
senior years with seminars by actual 
employers, who would describe for the stu
dents the career paths which are open to an 
AMS graduate.
Kriebel would also like to address one of 
the major complaints of underclassmen in 
his department: the H&SS-AMS curricu
lum. Though he agrees that AMS students 
should take H&SS classes, he says that he 
would rather see a mixing of the courses, 
instead of two years of H&SS courses fol
lowed by two years of AMS classes. Id like 
the student to have some exposure to man
agement classes before his junior year, he 
said.
Kriebel also points out that AMS is one of 
the larger programs at the university, and 
that AMS majors shouldnt have to feel like 
orphans.
The main problem, he feels, is geogra
phical. While the department is located in 
the GSIA building, most classes are taught 
in Baker/Porter Hall. As a result, there is 
little contact between the students and the 
people running the department.
To help alleviate this problem, he hopes 
to have an AMS bulletin board hung in 
Porter Hall, and to have some classes taught 
in the newly-renovated GSIA building. He 
also would like to see more departmental 
activities to give the program its own 
identity.
Though he sees problems with the pro
grams lack of solidity, Kriebel does not 
think that AMS is in truly bad shape. This 
was a very low-priority program five years 
ago, he says. This has changed. In the last 
continued on page 11
EVANS & SUTHERLAND

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanOctober 5, 1982
Stafwri' 1
htot&r
Kerr lectures on rights and responsibility
By LAURIE SCHORR
Tartan Staffwritrr
Turnout for the first Student Affairs 
Forum, entided Students Rights and 
Responsibilities, held Thursday in the 
Skibo Ballroom, was surprisingly small. 
Approximately 25 students attended the lec
ture, which was given by Thomas M. Kerr, 
lawyer and professor at GSLA and AMS and 
president of the Pennsylvania chapter of the 
American Civil Liberties Union.
Kerr outlined the basic rights and respon
sibilities of every student at CMU, emphasiz
ing the fact that the university has chosen to 
abide by the Constitution in all matters deal
ing with social contract arrangements. In 
other words, the student has the freedom of 
association, the freedom to form groups, 
organize meetings and demand headquarter 
space, freedom of speechr and the freedom of 
press that any other United States citizen not 
connected with the institution enjoys.
Kerr stated that, although this policy is
true of all state institutions, private colleges 
are not held by any law to implement it. 
Camegie-Mellon, however, tries to prepare 
its students for successful interaction in the 
outside world where these laws and rights 
do apply to everyone. In addition, Kerr said, 
each student has the right to look at his or her 
records, an advantage that was pioneered at 
CMU long before the amendment which 
finally forced all schools to make records 
available.
However, in matters dealing with aca
demics the University is a tyrant, said 
Kerr. Such matters as plagiarism, cheating, 
grading scales, course offerings and so forth 
are all under the sole jurisdiction of the 
university itself. Any decisions or school rul
ings concerning these matters are indisputa
ble in any court.
The responsibility of each student, 
according to Kerr, is to assure himself of his 
rights and the rights of others. Kerr dted the 
adage that we should act on others as we 
would have them act. It is the responsibil
ity of the students to utilize the rights open 
to them in the most beneficial way possible. 
Any criticisms should be voiced, and unfair 
decisions should be challenged in a tho
rough and organized method.
The University is dealing with adult 
arrangements, said Kerr. The idea of the 
University serving en loco parentis, or as 
substitute parents for its students, has been
U.S. Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA), who 
has been in the forefront of those seeking 
nuclear arms reduction talks with the 
Soviets, will speak on the nuclear freeze on 
October 6, 1982 in Skibo at 11:45 AM and in 
David Lawrence Hall at the University of 
Pittsburgh at 4 PM. A question and answer 
session wil follow each speech.
Specter was successful last May after a 
long debate with some of his colleagues in 
persuading the Senate to adopt a resolution 
calling on President Reagan to meet personabolished. Students will be accorded the sta
tus of adults and will be expected to live as 
adults. The institution doesnt expect to 
pamper or baby its students.
More information about student rights, or 
questions concerning such rights, can be 
found or answered in the Student Hand
book, or by direct contact with the 
administration.
ally with Soviet President Brezhnev to dis
cuss nuclear arms reduction as soon as 
possible.
To force a vote on the proposal, Specter 
offered it as an amendment to the Senate 
Appropriations Bill. In adopting it, the U.S. 
Senate expressed its strong desire that the 
two meet in a patient and persistent effort 
to achieve significant, balanced, and verifia
ble reductions in strategic arsenals of the 
U.S. and the U.S.S.R. and, thereby, reduce 
the dangers of nuclear war.
Senator to speak at CMU
E-Systems continues the tradition of the worlds great problem solvers.
Our ECI Division will be 
on campus interviewing October 20.
Unquestionably, Leonardo 
da Vinci possessed one of the 
worlds great minds. Not only re
nowned as a painter and sculp
tor, da Vinci also applied his 
exceptional talents to the me
chanics of flight, to cartography 
for planning military campaigns, 
and even astronomy.
Today, scientists and engi
neers at E-Systems continue the 
tradition by expanding the practi
cal application of advanced tech
nology. E-Systems uses the 
principles of flight mechanics as 
the basis for major modifications 
to aircraft, expands basic car
tography to encompass highly
Leonardo da Vinci 
1452-1519
sophisticated guidance and com
mand and control systems, and 
has designed and built a sys
tem that greatly expands mans 
ability to study the universe.
Thats only a small seg
ment of the tough problems 
E-Systems engineers solve in 
the area of antennas, communi
cations, data acquisition, pro
cessing, storage and retrieval 
systems and other systems ap
plications for intelligence and re
connaissance  systems which 
are often the first of a kind in 
the world.
For a reprint of the da Vinci 
illustration and information on ca
reer opportunities with E-Systems 
in Texas, Florida, Indiana, Utah, 
and Virginia, write: Dr. Lloyd K. 
Lauderdale, Vice President 
Research and Engineering, 
E-Systems, Inc., Corporate 
Headquarters, R 0. Box 226030, 
Dallas, Texas 75266.
E-SYSTEMS
The problem solvers.
An equal opportunity employer, M/R H, V

---------------------------------------------------

October 5, 1982The TartanPage 11
Featuring treasure hunt and more.
Good times ahead at Homecoming '82
Well its homecoming again, and the Stu
dent Alumni Relations Council (SARC) has 
planned a funfilled weekend packed with 
activities not just for CMU alumni.
Beginning this Friday afternoon, SARC 
will sponsor Capers on the cut. Sports com
petitions will be held on the cut from noon 
to 4:30 pm. Volleyball nets and frisbees will 
be available for students to let out their premid-term aggressions.
For students who like to build up their 
aggressions, there will be a video game com
petition (pac man fever) held in Skibo room
11. Three machines will be set on free play. 
SARC will record the scores, and the highest 
scores of the day will be given prizes.
Getting back to the cut, Shady Skates will 
reappear thanks to the Student Dormitory 
Council  theyll keep things rolling and 
WRCT 88.3 fm will provide the music  
theyll keep things jumpin.
A pretty tricky treasure hunt is also sche
duled, according to Sheila Dunham, public
ity chairman for SARC. The first clue will 
be given Friday on the cut. Players must 
solve every riddle which, says Dunham, may 
take all weekend, but at the end of their hunt 
(you guessed it) a prize awaits.
Still on the cut huh? T-shirts will be on 
sale so that in 25 years, student can look 
upon their beloved Homecoming 82 Tshirts and wish they could still fit into them. 
Speaking of fitting into ones clothes, there 
will be plenty of food on sale for all those 
hungry homecoming celebrants.
Friday night the traditional Tartan torch 
light parade will march at 9:00 pm from 
Morewood Gardens courtyard to the I.M. 
field. Then the bon fire/pep rally begins 
starring the Kiltie Band, cheerleaders, foot
ball players, and generally most of the cam
pus population. During the bon fire, the 
Mr. and Miss Varsity Court will be intro
duced, and fireworks will be held in the
Tech stadium.
Remember all of those people that your 
organization nominated for Mr. and Miss 
Varsity? SARC tallied these votes and nar
rowed the many nominations down to the 
following 22 men and women:
Deidre Dennis 
Robert Vaupel 
Joe Reinhardt 
Paul Wyncoop 
Colleen Kennedy 
Holly Wiles 
Sue Moskovitz 
John Wooldridge 
Kellie Camey 
Primy Chang 
Gerard Sansoti
Christopher Wargo 
Holly Biertempfel 
John Venzon 
Elaine Seth 
Brian Taubler 
Lorraine Stypula 
Kim Dziak 
Jim Stuart 
Jay Loomis 
Sue Devoy 
Larry Berger
Today in the Skibo Grey Matter, students 
can cast their final votes for Mr. and Miss 
Varsity. The winners will be announced at 
Saturdays football game which starts at 2:00 
p.m. at the Tech Field. The Tartans will 
battle Allegheny.
The alumni/student Ox Roast lunch will 
be held before the Tartan football game on 
the cut starting at 11:00 a.m. Also scheduled 
for Saturday morning are Hot Air Balloon 
rides at 11:00 and the homecoming parade at 
1:00 p.m. The parade will feature floats, and 
antique cars as well as Alumni.
We want to encourage student involve
ment, says Dunham, who is happy that 
this years SARC is a strong one with good 
continued on page 13Seniors beware: exams
AMS Head Kriebel plans
continued from page 9
two years, a lot of changes were put into 
motion by Richard Staelin (Kriebels prede
cessor as head of AMS). As a result, a lot of 
the complaints have dried up.
He cites the recent presidents report, 
which stated that most AMS courses were 
taught by doctoral students. Kriebel points 
out that this year, out of a faculty of 22, only 
five are students.
Kriebel believes that there is no reason 
why the undergraduate management pro
gram shouldnt be comparable to the gradu
ate program. Eventually, he hopes that the 
AMS program will have as good a reputa
tion nationwide as GSIA.
There has to be a commitment, Kriebel 
says. Either provide a top-quality program,
or get out of the business. Does he feel that 
commitment from the administration? I 
wouldnt have taken this job without it, he 
said.
Seniors who are thinking about graduate 
schools are encouraged to sign up for the 
pre-admission exams in the near future.
Applications for the Graduate Record 
Exam (GRE) are available in the Career 
Services, and Placement office, the Cll 
deans office in Scaife Hall, and some depart
ments on campus. The applications include
a practice test and information on fees and 
scoring.
The deadline for the first GRE of the year 
has already passed, but the test will be given 
several times this year. The next testing date 
is in December.
Applications for another exam, the Law 
School Admissions Test, are available in 
Tom Kerrs office in GSIA.
Marcello's Typing Service
Specializes in Word 
Processing
ThesesManuscriptsResearch/term 
papersresumes/repetitive letters 
(TurabianAPAMLA strongly observed)
Fast Efficient Reasonable 
Call Ms. West 371-3657 
(24 hour service)
10% discount with coupon
Allegheny Womens Center
an out patient medical clinic offering
* abortion counseling  free pregnancy tests
* personal counseling  birth control services
* gynecological care
362-2920 
Pregnancy Testing Center201 S. Craig Street (Oakland) Pittsburgh, PA 15213
(412) 687-TEST
wAlleghenyWomensCenter
Medical Center East Building 
Penthouse Right (8h floor) 
211 North Whitfield Street 
Pittsburgh. PA 15206
PREGNANT? Can ThT
Let's talk about your options.
HOTLINE: (412) 731-2420
PREGNANCY TESTING: 1-4706
908 Penn Avenue, Downtown 
8-10 a.m. MWF; 11-1 p.m. TTS
Free and confidential information, 
counseling, pregnancy testing, and 
related services.
ALTERNATIVES TO ABORTION INC
 non-profit organization
AT LAWRENCE LIVERMORE NATIONAL LABORATORY,
CREATIVE MINDS PURSUE A DIVERSITY OF IMAGINATIVE SOLUTIONS...
ON CAMPUS 
WEDNESDAY, OCT. 27th
Ask your Placement Office for details on our 
upcoming Campus visit, or
See our ad in this paper next, TUESDAY, 
OCT. 19th for additional information.
LLNL is an equal opportunity employer, m/f/h
University of California
11M Lawrence Livermore LU National Laboratory
P.O. Box 5510, Dept. JCR, Livermore, CA 94550

---------------------------------------------------

TECHNICAL OPPORTUNITIES
Thursday, October 14, from 11am to 5pm 
in the Skibo Ballroom.
Featuring ... - |;| f
? IBM ? Corning Glass Works
? Western Electric Co. ? Schlumberger
? Chevrolet ? Procter & Gamble
? General Electric ? GTE Service Corp.
? Hewlett - Packard ? Lawrence - Livermore
- Bell Labs ? ALCOA
? Polaroid ? Koppers
? DEC ? Mead Corp.
... and more.
Students from all academic disciplines are 
invited to come and talk freely and informally 
with the company representatives.
Sponsored by 
The Society of Women Engineers
and the 
C-MU IEEE Student Branch

---------------------------------------------------

With The Pumper you can start a party anywhere. The plastic, no-deposit, no-return, quarter keg holds nearly three-and-a-hatf cases of cold Iron City or I.C. Light. Just add ice and insert the reusable Pumper tap and youre ready to rip. Pick up The Pumper at your local distributor*
Pittsburgh Brewing CompanyPittsburgh, FA
October 5, 1982The TartanPage 13
Despite federal cutbacks enrollment up
continued from page 1
students claiming independence. This 
number has risen dramatically each year, 
Cathie said. The figure this year was 46% 
and Cathie suspects a figure of over 50% for 
next year. Because of their independence, 
these students are receiving more financial 
aid than they normally would have if
dependent. According to Cathie, this makes 
it more difficult for middle income depend
ent students to receive aid.
Another trend that he pointed out was the 
differences in numbers of enrolled students. 
Last year, of those students offered financial 
aid, 45% enrolled. This year 54.8% entered 
CMU. Last year, of the students not offered
any form of aid, 33% enrolled, while this 
year, only 23% accepted Cathie said that this 
might be an indication that CMU is buying 
students with its financial aid. He said the 
Financial Aid department is interested in 
discovereing why CMU is becoming less 
attractive to the student who doesnt have a 
financial need.
Investment Club a winning idea
By DAVID M. GUSTIN
Tartan Staffwriter
An exciting new club has been formu
lated at CMU, the Investment Club. The 
clubs objectives are devoted to teaching stu
dents how to manage their money (portfolio 
management) and to give students the 
chance to gain practical experience han
dling investments.
Investment knowledge is not a require
ment to being a member. It is assumed most
prospective members have little or none. 
The first meeting was held on Sept. 16 with 
club objectives and individual objectives 
being discussed.
Sixty-five people turned out for the first 
meeting. Interpersonal relationships 
between members were stressed by Wayne 
Cutler, club president. The five individual 
objectives the club is dedicated to include: 
active participation by all members; learn
ing beyond limitations; synergy; a common 
goal with each member concentrating on a
Stahl's motion rejected
By MONICA J. CELLIO
Tartan News Editor
Last week Student Senate rejected a 
motion to censure one of its members.
Andy Stahl made a motion to censure 
Finance Chair Laura Sabadell because of 
violations and usurpation of power. Stahl 
accused Sabadell of not keeping committee 
attendance records, failing to appoint a vice
chair, scheduling meetings at times when all 
members cannot be present, and stifling 
debate.
Youre playing political games and low
ering the credibility of this body, Sabadell 
replied. Youre making it look like a farce. 
Sabadell said that attendance records are 
kept with the secretary, and that a vice-chair 
is not needed with only four committee 
members. In addition, she said, meetings are 
held when most members can attend.
It is important not to get sidetracked in 
finance meetings, added Lois Cox, asso
ciate dean of Student Affairs. Cox sits on the 
finance committee and is responsible for 
reviewing budgets with organizations on 
campus. The motion to censure was defeated 
2-20.
specific area but keeping the global picture 
in mind; and relationship mentality among 
members (which essentially means to treat 
members as persons when dealing with 
them).
A constitution was handed out outlining 
the clubs skeletal structure. Probable invest
ments were touched upon and a question 
and answer session rapped up the meeting. 
Refreshments followed.
The second meeting, held on Sept. 23, was 
devoted to taking care of administrative mat
ters that go along with the start of a new 
club. The treatment of how to become a 
member and how to run for the many offices 
was outlined. The divisions of the club were 
explained more fully and prospective 
members were told of their obligations.
Essentially, each member is required to 
follow one stock using SAC, an acronym 
which stands for Stock Acceptance Crite
ria. Becoming a member of a division is not 
a required obligation although anyone wil
ling may be part of one. The clubs main 
methods of learning will be through lec
tures, each other and individual study. Meet
ings are held on Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in 
Skibo 12. Interested students should contact 
Wayne Cutler (621-6029) if they have any 
questions about becoming a member.
According to Cathie, the College of Fine 
Arts has tended to attract the most affluent 
students over the years. They had the lowest 
percentage of students on financial aid last 
year with 48.2%. This year, they have the 
highest percentage on aid with 63.6%. He 
said that these losses in the generally affluent 
sections of the student population are occuring only as of this year.
Because of application acceptances, the 
University has discovered that CMU is 
becoming more attractive to out of state stu
dents. According to Cathie, out of state stu
dents dont bring their own state grants with 
them, so they need more financial aid than 
the Pennsylvania students. This year 60% of 
the out of state students have financial aid
Cathie said that in almost all of the col
leges, freshmen students parents had the 
highest income average and the seniors had 
the lowest. The average need of a freshman 
student on financial aid is $6694, which is 
more than the cost of tuition.
Cathie concluded by saying that the big
gest problem for financial aid will be the 
possible cutbacks in federal aid for the 1983- 
84 school year, in light of the previously 
mentioned generous budget of this years 
financial aid.
According to Cathie this years report is 
good. Were getting better quality students 
and our applications are up even though 
weve increased our tuition by 15%.
Fun on the cut
continued from page 11
workers including SARC President Bennett 
Fidlow and Faculty Advisor Pam Bazzv.
SARC is trying to expand activities this 
year to include more of the CMU students, 
according to Dunham. We want to make 
homecoming a special weekend for students 
and alumni alike.
Hey CMU
party with The Pumper !

---------------------------------------------------

DATE: OCTOBER 26EE, Physics & Comp. Sd. Majors
For a 15Vx 20% "color poster of this illustration, please send your request to: Poster. College Relations, PO Box 1166. Pittsburgh, PA 15230. < Gulf Oil Corporation An Equal Opportunity Employer
...  Iibm.ll 1 KM  ill mi 1 II- II 11Mil ill mmmmm, I   mil I H  H,mmmmm, -iere Gulf Oil Corporation. And weD be on campus to look for something
very much in demand these days. New energy. Specifically, new human energy.The fast-changing energy field wiD continue to be one of the most exciting and rewarding places to launch a career. Into the eighties, and beyond. And Gulf has exceptional opportunities for new people with new ideas about solving energy problems.Sign up for an appointment now at your placement office. And pick up some Gulf literature for background information. Because this year promises to be a great year for new energy. And we cant think of a better place to look than here.
Gulf

---------------------------------------------------

Special schedule of weekend events.
Homecoming 982
Friday, Oct 8
Douglas Wilson Memorial Fund/
Paintings
9:00 AM-1:00 PM
CFA Loge (4th Floor)
Golden Anniversary Celebration 
(By invitation only  Advance reserva
tions necessary.)
10:00 AM  Ceremony 
Wherrett Room, Ski bo 
A special ceremony honoring the Class of 
1932.
Reception 
11:00 AM
Highlander Room, Skibo
Luncheon 
12:00 PM 
Ballroom, Skibo
A luncheon in honor of the Class of 1932.
Punch and Cake Reception 
1:00-2:00 PM 
Front of Fiunt Library 
Commemorating CMUs 77th anniversary 
sponsored by the University Libraries.
Student Capers 
12:30-4:00 PM
On the Cut in front of Skibo.
Variety of games, activities, and highjinks 
by students.
Todays Dream  Tomorrows Reality 
2:00 PM
GSIA Auditorium
Edgar Mitchell (IM52, Honorary CMU 
Doctorate E71) will speak on the topic 
Todays Dream  Tommorrows Real
ity. Dr. Mitchell served successfully on 
the flights of Apollo lOand 16, and was the 
pilot on the Apollo 14 Lunar Landing 
Space Craft in 1971. He has researched the 
area of Human Resources and in 1972, 
founded the "Institute of Noetic Sciences 
to explore the Human Potential. Now 
serving as a consultant in human resource 
management, Dr. Mitchell has worked 
with numerous corporations during the 
past decade.
Camegie-Mellon in Color 
Opening Reception 
3:30-5:00 PM 
Hewlett Gallery
Come and see Harold Gorsinis photo
graphs of the University.
Alumni Awards Dinner 
$23.00 per person
To honor alumni and friends for their 
outstanding accomplishments and service 
to the University.
Reception 
6:30 PM
Faculty Dining Room, Skibo
Candlelight Dinner 
7:00 PM 
Ballroom
Awards Ceremony 
8:00 PM
Dance to the Music of the Rick Purcell 
Quartet
9:00 PM-12:00 AM 
Ballroom, Skibo
1982 Award Winners
Distinguished Achievement  Igor J.
Karassik (E32, E33M)
Distinguished Service  Robert G. 
McCurdy (HA67)
Friend of the University  Donald C. 
Burnham
Merit Dr. Jerry GL. Chang (E48M, 
E52D), Dr. S. Allen Heininger 
(S51M,S52D), Ann B. Roth (A53),Gary 
S. Smith (A56), D. Coder Taylor (A35) 
Service  Clarence H. Adamson (I15), 
Walter J. Blenko, Jr. (E50), Jo Flores 
Chase (A53), Dr. Daniel S. Maisel (E41), 
Chloe Pollock (A52)
5th Year Reunion Beer BUist
9:00 PM
Skibo
The Class of 1977 and their friends from 
1978, 1979, and 1980 will celebrate till the 
kegs run dry. Come and reminisce with 
old friends and make new ones. Pay at the 
door.
Torchligh Parade, Bonfire and Pep Rally 
9:30 PM
Morewood Gardens to IM Field 
Join the Kiltie Band, cheerleaders, stu
dents and your fellow alumni in front of 
Morewood Gardens and march to the IM 
Field for the bonfire and pep rally.
Fireworks 
10:00 PM
Fireworks display at Tech Stadium.
Saturday, Oct. 9
CMU Robotics Today 
11:15 AM-12:30 PM
Come to see a video-tape presentation of 
the projects and developments of the 
Robotics Institute.
State of the Unversity 
10:00 AM
Wherrett Room, Skibo 
President Richard M. Cyert
Andrew Carnegie Society Reception 
10:15 AM-12KX) P,
Faculty Lounge, Skibo
Margaret Morrison and H&SS Reception 
10:30-11:00 AM 
Highlander Room, Skibo 
Margaret Morrison and H&SS graduates 
are invited to an informal gathering of 
alumni, faculty and students of the MM 
and H&SS Colleges. Come and join in the 
fun!
OPENING: Design Alumni Invitational
Show
10:30 AM
Design Gallery, Baker Hall 368 
Show will remain open until 6:00 PM
Traditional Alumni-Student Ox Roast
Luncheon
11:00 AM-1:30 PM
$4.25 per person
On the Cut
Be sure to stop by the roasting pit some
time after midnight on Friday to watch 
our chef barbeque an entire ox. Join your 
classmates for this pre-game favorite.
Admissions Program
9:00 AM 
Room 11, Skibo
An informal program designed by our 
admissions office staff for families with 
college-bound children.
Alumni Council Meeting 
9:00 AM
Wherrett Room, Skibo 
Linda Schorr, Director of Alumni Rela
tions, will bring you up-to-date on the 
Alumni Association. Everyone is 
welcome.
Douglas Wilson Memorial Fund/
Paintings
9:00 AM-1:00 PM
CFA Loge (4th Floor)
Mini Seminars 
Wean Hall 7500
Meet in the lobby of Wean Hall (formerly 
Science Hall) at least ten minutes before 
each seminar starts.
Diabetes and your Eyesight 
9:15-10:00 AM
Dr. W.M. Kozak, Professor of Physiology 
and Biomedical Engineering and his colla
borator will present research directed to an 
early detection and prevention of Diabetic 
Retinopathy, a leading cause of blindness 
in the United States.
Video Communication 
10:15-11:00 AM
Professor Bruce Breland, F*resident of the 
Board of International Network for the 
Arts will give a summary of the current 
state of electronic an including tapes and 
CMU student projects.
Homecoming Parade 
1:00 PM
On the Cut in front of Skibo
Line up behind your class banner and join
the parade to Tech Stadium.
CMU vs. Allegheny 
2.00 PM 
Tech Stadium
Come cheer our Tartan team on to victory. 
Halftime will include a performance by 
the Kiltie Band and the crowning of Mr. 
and Miss Varsity.
Fifth Quarter
Wherrett Room, Skibo
Following the game, celebrate the victors!
Cash bar cocktails.
Alumni Executive Board Reception 
Following the game 
Faculty Lounge, Skibo
GSIA Alumni and Student Reception 
Following the game 
GSIA lobby
Homecoming Dinner/Dance
$27.00 per person
William Penn Hotel  17th Floor
War Years Canteen 
6:00 PM
Classes of 1942-1947, cash bar 
6:30 PM
Classes get together few cash bar cocktails 
Dinner
8:00 PM-12:30 AM 
Main Ballroom
Reservations are a must No Tickets Sold 
at the Door. Following dinner, entertain
ment by Arthur Benjamin (S83), CMUs 
own human calculator. Then dance to 
the music of Jack Purcell (A41) and his 
orchestra.
Sunday, Oct. 10
Champagne Brunch 
11:00 AM-1.-00 PM 
$9.50 per person 
Ballroom, Skibo
Complete buffet of eggs, pancakes, break
fast meats, fresh fruit, pastries and plenty 
of champagne.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 6 at 8 PM 
Skibo Ballroom
Anther AB Lectures and Special Events Presentation
% >Z
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

October 5, 1982The TartanPage 17
More columns
|Eco-week: who should control economic decisions at the Fed?
By Wayne I. Cutler
The Federal Reserve has recently been 
I under fire from the Reagan Administration 
and Congress. Monetary rebels want to push 
I the Fed back to the limited powers it was 
given by the Federal Reserve Act 
of 1913. This Act allowed the 
government to tell the Fed what 
interest rates to maintain on 
government securities (treasury-bills that 
the Fed buys and sells in the open 
market).
In 1934, powers were handed over to the 
Fed as many supporters felt that govern
ment representatives were too prone to be 
influenced by re-election bids and would 
thus alter Fed policies to satisfy their 
constituents.
The Administration and Congress have 
emphasized the Fed returning to its old prac
tice of controlling interest rates by making 
the money supply fluctuate to keep rates 
constant. The Fed cannot simultaneously 
set both interest rates and the stock of money
at any given target levels that it chooses.
If the Fed wants to achieve a given interest 
rate, it must supply the amount of money 
thats demanded at that rate. On the other 
hand, if it wants to set money supply at a 
certain level, it has to allow interest rates to 
fluctuate with that supply.
Proponents for the Fed managing interest 
rates feel this would allow an increase in 
investments as rates would be kept low and 
businesses would not be subject to the ups 
and downs of loan rates.Blair finds many people obnoxious
continued from page 4
What little we care about we understand, 
and your idealistic Social Security reform is 
so laughable that Ive sent it to Woody Allen 
as an audition. (I want a 5% cut, ok?)
4. I will never understand people who 
stand on the bus when seats are available. 
Im a commuter and invariably, each and 
every 61 bus I get on has some goofball 
standing in everybodys way. There might 
be a reason for it; if anybody knows it, please 
clue me in.
5. Why do people insist on standing on 
narrow walks in large groups? Every day, 
Im forced off one walk or another by some
clot of folks talking about letters from home 
and their mothers or something similar, and 
blocking all of the path. There exists 
another group of students on this campus 
whose sole purpose in life is. to walk abreast 
in groups of four on the paths. Perhaps both 
of these groups could get together and take 
over the old Theta Xi house.
6. People who dont have enough time to 
help blind people across the street are bas
tards. This doesnt happen much in Oak
land, but downtown . . .
7. When I heard that the Gang of Four 
was coming to CMU, I really was surprised. 
You see, I was sure Mao or somebody had
8. You spent $40 this year, and some 
amount of that went to put my petty ideas in 
your newspaper. Just thought youd like to 
know.
Doug Blair is a junior majoring in math 
and is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Unfortunately these politicians have not 
taken a course in economics. When the 
money supply fluctuates in conjunction 
with interest rates, the economy is subject to 
volatile and rapid money growth.
Much econometric research indicates that 
there is a close relationship between money 
growth and inflation (i.e. 5.5% growth in 
money  5% inflation). If money is allowed 
to grow at 9% or 10% (present growth target: 
21/4%-51/%), then we are back to having run
away inflation which is exactly what the 
Reagan Administration has been trying to 
curtail.
Politicians  Leave Economics to the 
Economists and well all be better off!
inWayne Cutler is a senior majoring 
managerial economics and is a columnist 
for The Tartan.
Stahl presents platform
bumped them off some years ago.Student opinion sought by senator
continued from page 3 things happening on Senate that nobody
haps a weekly feature in The Tartan to be else has spoken of.
written by various senators about the issues 
they are involved in, along with Nates 
column. And how about effective polling of 
student opinion through the resident 
assistants?
While I am not going to try and follow 
ur presidents footsteps and write some 
kind of weekly column, I will write letters in 
when I feel students should be alerted to
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
For a confidential friend call:
LIFELINE
Downtown Pgh. 562-0543
Beaver County 843-0505
Mon Valley 489-9020
Butler County 282-1200
Oh, by the way, my home phone number 
is x4246, feel free to contact me.
Also, we need signatures of all those inter
ested in a flim club. I will leave a petition at 
the Skibo Information Desk.
Tom McCarthy
continued from page 3
I am currendy considering to run for Stu
dent Government president in the spring. I 
feel that someone who has the nerve to ask 
the right questions is needed. Someone who 
will play power politics with the adminis
tration. Someone who can do what dirty 
work is needed to win.
William James once said, The end justi
fies the means. Lately, our Student Govern
ments means have not been effective. The 
time has come for change. My supporters 
and I hope that The Tartan will continue to 
cover our struggle. We will consider any 
Tartan coverage as an endorsement of our 
candidacy. I do promise that I will drop out
of the race for the presidency if G. Gordon 
Liddy enrolls as a student and runs for the 
office.
Later we will submit our entire platform, 
along with specific requirements for supp
lies. Last but not least, any student who has 
surplus arms, ammo, explosives and other 
equipment, please give me a call, I might 
need some help.
Andrew L. Stahl 
Student Senate
The Tartan does not make it policy to 
endorse any candidates for any office.  
Editor
Pregnant?
And you didn't mean to be?
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 621 -1988
Me
GYN
CHECK-UPS
ABORTION
SERVICES
FREE
PREGNANCY TESTS
CONFIDENTIAL
COUNSELING
Women's Health Services
625 STANWIX ST 
DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
(412) 562-1900
Next summer starts this December at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
We are now accepting applications for our 1983 Sum
mer Employment Program. Employment at our national 
laboratory requires a security clearance; therefore, we 
need your application no later than December 1, 1982.
At LLNL, we have summer jobs designed to give students and faculty an unusual 
opportunity to identify and develop areas of professional interest through exposure 
to a wide variety of R&D projects. We conduct basic and applied research and development in energy and national defense programs.
A variety of Summer Employment assignments are available in the following areas:
ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING: Pulse power and power conditioning, design and 
instrumentation, computer systems and software, and control engineering.
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING: Design, structural analysis, non-destructive evaluation, 
precision measurements, instrumentation development, mechanical behavior analysis.
PLANT ENGINEERING: Positions involving planning, design, construction and 
maintenance of our facilities and utility systems.
Openings are also available outside our Engineering Departments in these areas: Direc
tors Office, Magnetic Fusion Energy Computer Center, Physics, Chemistry, 
Biomedical, Nuclear Chemistry, Computation and Hazards Control Departments.
If you are interested in a technically challenging Summer in 1983, apply now for the 
LLNL Summer Employment Program.
Write or call collect immediately for an application package:
Jean Morgan (415) 422-9367 
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory 
Employment Division 
P.O. Box 5510, Dept. JCSUMM 
Livermore, CA 94550
You may also contact your Placement Office for brochuras.
An equal opportunity employer, U.S. CITIZENSHIP REQUIRED.
University of California
11  Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanOctober 5, 1982
'They just don't have the commitment"
New dorm and student union unlikely, says Nate
continued from page 8
ters. I dont think theyre developed to the 
point where they can utilize them real effec
tively but nonethelessrif they really go for it I 
dont think its going to change the students 
perspective at all.
But then again, we might have a lot of 
hackers running around because its an 
interesting idea. Universities dont usually 
innovate and itll get us really popular sud
denly. And it will make people really take an 
interest in us. You may have a shift in the 
type of students you get, in that event, 
because people are going to go where they 
want to go, and people who are interested in 
computers will come here and people who 
are interested in other things will probably 
flee, so it will definitely change things. Like 
I said, I dont like it because Im not particu
larly attracted to the computer.
Tartan: Do you think CMU mill ever 
have a student union ?
Solano: Hah! Hah! Hah! Ever? Thats a 
long time. Yeah, eventually, maybe, when 
theyve run out of renovations to the gray 
matter and Skibo is falling down and they 
put a camoflouge tent over top of it. Yeah, 
maybe then, but not until, because they just 
dont want to spend the money right now, 
they just dont have the committment to 
spend the money. If we get a field house, 
maybe then. Were considering a field house 
underneath the stadium, I guess, and theyre 
actually giving that some firm considera
tion, so yeah, if we get a field house, then 
well definitely get a student union. But 
thats all going to depend on what the 
administration wants to do and what they
think is going to attract students here. Yeah, 
a student union.
Tartan: With terminal banks in the 
basement?
Solano: Yeah, and George Jetson sand
wich makers. I was watching the Jetsons the 
other day and he hits all the buttons and gets 
out the sandwich.
Tartan: What about a new dorm? Do 
you think me still need that? That comes up 
every year.
Solano: Yeah, thats true. Yeah, if we 
want to house everyone on campus, we need 
a new dorm. The satisfaction with the on 
campus housing is two faced. I was talking 
to a freshman the other day (I live off cam
pus) and I was waiting for the magic bus 
outside the Louisa Street apartments and it 
didnt come. So a freshman and I started 
walking up towards campus and he told me 
that he enjoyed having the apartment, it was 
nice and quiet to study in and its nice to 
have a big place to live, but it was no fun for 
the social life at all. And I think its real 
important that the freshman be able to 
develop his social life.
However, the economy has gone as such 
that we may not be getting as many students 
in the future. Things may come back to 
being back on campus. I think before we 
build a new dorm we better decide how 
many students are going to be annually 
attending the University. Right now theres 
a real inelastic demand for the University in 
that no matter how much we charge theres 
still going to be more than enough people 
who want to go to school here. If the econ
omy keeps on going the way it is, people are
going to be forced to shop for universities. 
And in that case I think the number of stu
dents will go down here. So I think if the 
economy continues to go bad, no, there will 
be no need for another dorm. If things start 
to boom, yeah, were going to have to have a 
new dorm set up, and then maybe well get a 
student union in the basement of the new 
dorm, but dont count on it.
Tartan: One more question - When you 
ran for president of the student government 
last year, you basically run on a joke cam
paign; as you said in your column, you mere 
elected by mistake and students werent 
really taking you seriously. Has your atti
tude toward that changed?
Solano: Um, not really. I still take the 
light attitude. Unfortunately Ive fallen into 
what I call a comedian syndrome. Whenever 
I talk people want to laugh right now and 
no matter what I say people laugh. I could 
tell them the stock market was down and 
people would laugh. Its just like going to 
see a cheap comedian and hes not funny but 
youre in the mood to laugh so you laugh at 
him. And that upsets me sometimes. I think 
people should use their brains enough to 
laugh when somethings funny and not 
when things arent funny.
Im seriously committed to helping the 
students. Ive seriously become very idealis
tic recently and I want to help the students 
very blindly, but its a pain sometimes with 
people who take you seriously. When will 
people start taking me seriously? Hopefully 
never; theyll never take me completely 
seriously.
The problem with it is that people wont 
acknowledge any good points that youve
done, anything that youve worked towards. 
I dont think that any of the senators are 
willing to admit that Ive done anything. 
Not because theyre mad at me or anything, 
just because for some reason they cant take 
me seriously and they cant conceive that 
someone with my kind of attitude could ever 
accomplish anything. And it sort of irks me, 
lets say, that they cant see that anytnings 
being done. So my attitude hasnt changed, 
but the attitudes around me . . . Im not 
approaching anything any differendy than I 
did last year. Unfortunately, people havent 
learned to approach me any differendy than 
they did last year, and everybodys still 
laughing even when they shouldnt be. Id 
say thats the extent of it.
Tartan: Well, I think thats about all I 
wanted to ask you unless you have any thing 
to add.
Solano: No, I think I basically accomp
lished what I wanted to say. I am a student 
and I have to get work done, and people, 
including my roommates and everything, 
seem to be forgetting all of that Sometimes I 
wish this position could be a paid position 
and I could be a student next year! But as for 
now, I better hold off and do some work.
PRIDE
. HAS A RING TO IT.
SEE THE ENTRE COLLECTION OF 
HERFF JONES COLLEGE RINGS AT:
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY BOOKSTORE 
TRADITIONAL RINGS 
FASHION RINGS
ORDER YOURS ON:
DATE: OCTOBER 7 & 8 TIME; 10 a.m. - 4 p.m.
PLACE: BAKER HALL
$15 DEPOSIT REQD.9
HERFF JONESDivi ion of Carnation Company
Great Moments in the history of hair
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech, a 
Stone Age plumber, discovers a 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
drain on a routine aqueduct re
pair job. He calls the substance 
hair
"But we always thought this 
stuff was feathers", insists Kneg, 
his helper.
"Dummy", counters Blech. "If 
this was feathers, we'd be able to
fly like those pteradactyls".
With the discov6ry of hair, pluck
ing salons disappear. Philoso
phers have something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with. No 
appointments required. For gals 
and guys.
PRECISION
HAIRCUT COLOR
(ANY LENGTH)
$12.00
(WASH-CUT-BLOW STYLE)
NO
APPOINTMENT
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES 
$25.00
-JainEdittoral._:
Mon., Tues., Wed. 10-7 
Thurs., Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6687-3500
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PRECSON HAWO/TTERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
iterview with Jon King
ang of Four brings "persona/ politics" to CMU
y K. ERIKSEN and R. WALLS
Jartan Staffuniters
I Last Wednesday AB Concerts presented 
e Gang of Four in the Skibo Ballroom, a 
ncert that had sold out in eighteen hours, 
we weeks before. This date was part of the 
Gangs ten-week Songs of the 
Free tour. A couple of hours 
before the show we had the 
opportunity to sit down with 
50 King, the lead singer, and ask him a few 
uestions. It went a little something like 
his:
Tartan: What kind of gigs do you usually
lay?
King: Historically, weve done very few 
igs to students. We started out playing 
lubs and then we played mostly smallish 
leatres. We did want to do more college 
ates. Its a different audience than what 
reve usually played to, and I think people 
lat go to it would get a lot out of it. 
Tartan: So you feel this tour has been 
oing well?
King: Yeah. This tour has been turning 
ut extremely well. We should have played a 
igger gig here. We put on a pretty ambious show as you can see. Weve got a 14K 
Dund system and our own lights. We put 
n as good a show as youre likely to see, I 
lean as far as equipment.
Tartan: Do you think that college radio
has contributed to your success?
King: Id say college radio has been vc 
helpful. College radio has been one of t 
first playing Gang of Four. And black rad 
has always played our music  I think th< 
programming is a lot more open.
Tartan: Why is it that while many ru 
American artists claim British groups li 
the Sex Pistols or the Clash as influence, 
many British musicians are claiming bla 
artists as influence?
King: It comes down to radio very mut 
English radio is purely pop radio. You 
got one nadonal music-playing radio s 
don you listen to, Radio 1. Theres Radio
2, 3, and 4. Radio 4 plays talk shows, whi 
is what I listen to. Radio 1 plays pop mus 
chart music; you never near rock. Pop son 
are what people tend to buy.
Tartan: So do you like pop music?
King: The music that I like is disco. P 
two favorite albums are Off the Wall 
Michael Jackson and We Are Family by 
Sister Sledge.
Tartan: And why do you think American 
music is different from British?
King: All the musicians of our generation 
grew up with pop music and Americans 
grew up with rock music. I think the Pistols 
are like, to me, slighdy faster Black Sabbath, 
and the Clash  theyre a rock band.
Tartan: You classify your music as perGang of Four played CMU last Wednesday to a full audience in the Ballroom
sonal politicsWhat do you mean by that?
King: Its personal politics in the sense 
that our songs are free. ... using those kinds 
of problems that people confront in their 
daily lives.
People expect us to be a punk band, 
which weve never been, although we came 
continued on page 21
I he Who proves that rock and roll lives 
n the music world of the '80's
RICK GOLBA
irtan Staffwritgr
I The Who arrived in Pittsburgh last Tuesny to deliver some prime rock and roll to a 
11 out crowd at the Civic Arena. From 
Substitute, the opener, to Twist 8c 
Shout, the Who proved that 
rock is not dead.
There were such Who classics 
as Pinball Wizard, 5:15, 
You and "Summertime Blues. 
r Daltreys voice was surpurb in Love,
ities of his voice and the versatility of the 
band.
Guitarist Pete Townsends on-stage 
antics really got the crowd moving. The fans 
went wild as he jumped and struttled across 
the stage. Still, his playing secures him a 
place as one of rocks great guitarists.
The drummer was not Keith Moon, but, 
of course Keith cannot return. Kenney 
Jones, the new drummer, did well on the 
classics as well as the newer songs. His style 
and abilities complement the rest of the
Songs from the newest album, Its 
Hard, were well played. Athena, which 
was played in the first and only encore, was
especially noteworthy for its rowdiness. The 
other songs from the album were improved 
by some mid-song jamming.
Overall, the crowd was extremely 
psyched, but surprisingly non-violent. The 
one fight that did break out quickly stopped 
by billy club-swinging police. While this 
discouraged random other fights, it did seem 
a bit inappropriate to the situation.
The Who proved that rock is still alive, 
not only by such songs as Long Live 
Rock and "Sister Disco, but by their gen
eral performance. They are, and always will 
be, one of the all-time great rock and roll 
bands.
Drama offers 
playwriting
By SRIKANTH RAJAN
Tartan Staffwriter
While graduate students have always had 
a masters program in playwriting, the 
Drama Department formalized the under
graduate curriculum only this year. Until 
now, most playwriting-related courses were 
taken by non-playwriting majors.
Typically a student enrolled in this div
ision would take tv/film writing, directing, 
production, and a number of workshops in 
addition to the required playwriting 
courses. That is to say, three-fourths of the 
students courses concerned general theatre 
arts, so that one found oneself in acting or 
maybe dance classes.
The BFA in playwriting, although it 
appeals to few, is likely to gain momentum 
in coming years, as it may be a successful 
course of study, even if the student is not a 
professional playwright at first.
David Ball, Associate Professor of Drama, 
remarked, This is a very professional, 
production-oriented study. Its writing for 
the stage. It is not writing literature nor is it 
creative writing. This is where you perform 
and gain experience in all phases of drama.
Further, Ball noted, Its a little different 
rhythm than with most options because a 
lot of people who graduate from here can 
find good work as actors, directors, scene 
and production workers within five or six 
years, but not many under thirty make it one 
way or another playwrights. Youve got to 
take a longer look. I think they do pretty 
well.
Roddenberry concluded
photo by John Stilwell
is out at the AB sponsored Blues Party which was held in CMUs Ballroom
The following is the conclusion of the 
interview with Gene Roddenberry, con
ducted by Tartan Entertainment Editor, 
Susan Petrie.
Tartan: Do you see all the science fiction 
films that come out?
Roddenberry: I try to see all die interest
ing films that come out of every type because
I am a picture-maker and a dramatist.
Tartan: What about the fantasy films? 
You mentioned that Star Wars was more a 
fantasy film than a science fiction film, 
Roddenberry: Its a very legitimate cate
gory of film that I would not hesitate mak
ing. I think that there great fun. The 
difference between science fiction and fan
tasy basically is that science fiction tries to 
stay true to what we know about science or 
what our best theories of science are.
__ Fantasycan have a magj pendant and we
can shake it, and look at it, and dream of 
where you want to be and youll be there.
Tartan: How do you categorize Raiders 
of the Lost Ark 7 Would you consider that 
science fiction?
Roddenberry: I thought good about it. 
No. Thats just pure out and out marvelous 
adventure, old school. Theres no science 
fiction there, theres no science there, is 
there?
Tartan: What do you classify as pure 
science fiction and non-science fiction? 
Whats the distinction to you?
Roddenberry: You can get a number of 
science fiction writers together now who 
will argue about it. But basically science 
fiction is a story that you root in science or 
scientific theory that people can accept
We had, of course, in Star Trek more 
continued on pega 22

---------------------------------------------------

HOMECOMING 82
Friday, October 8
Noon - 4:30
9:00
Student Capers
Featuring:
frisbee
balloons
sports competition 
treasure hunt 
tug of war
Torchlight Parade
Bonfire/Pep Rally 
Fireworks
on the cut
Morewood Gardens 
Courtyard 
IM Field 
Tech Stadium
Saturday, October 9
11:00
2:00
on the cut
Halftime
Hot-Air Balloon 
Ox-Roast Luncheon 
Homecoming Parade Tech Stadium 
Parade/Float 
Competition 
Tartan Football 
Game
Mr. & Miss Varsity 
Court Presentation
studentAlumniJ dations ouncil

---------------------------------------------------

October 5, 1982The TartanPage 21
'Humph: hard-rocking Canadian band gains convert
y LESLEY BRUNKER
arum Staffwritcr
Youre an entertainment writer for the 
artan. You walk into your Monday night 
leering and your friendly editor, Susan 
etrie, turns to you and says, Weve got 
complimentary tickets to see a 
great Canadian band tomorrow 
night. Youre going.
A free concert  not bad, you 
tiink. But who is the band from the Great 
iVhite North? Your mind wanders and invaiably comes up with rock superpower 
Lush.
But no  then it would have been a Rush 
oncert, not just a Canadian band. You next 
onsider April Wine or, if youre more into 
>op, Loverboy, but discard them for the 
ame reason. A revival of the Guess Who or 
lachman-Tumer Overdrive doesnt sound 
x> likely, so youre finally reduced to asking 
st who youre going to see.
Triumph.
Triumph? you repeat, puzzled. I dont 
link Ive ever heard of them. You attend 
le show anyway, quite unsure of what to
expect. All through the warm-up band, you 
have some reservations. You begin to men
tally write your negative review when you 
realize the stage is being reset. Then, from a 
misty, purplish haze, comes Triumph.
You are immediately taken aback by the 
amount of sound generated by the three men 
as they play Allied Forces, a rather Van 
Halen-like tune.
Ah, so theyre a heavy metal band, you 
conclude, satisfied you have classified them. 
Suddenly, your image is shattered by an 
incredible change of pace. A delicate yet 
intense guitar solo leads you into the next 
number, Lay it on the Line.
The song makes an abrupt acceleration to 
hard rock, and you find yourself emotion
ally involved with the music.
Soon, the mist again rolls and the light
ing changes to a bloodied as the group plays 
their most popular song, Magic Power. 
The lyrics are by far the most outstanding 
feature: The music does the talking/ says 
the things you want to hear./ Im young, 
Im wild, and Im free/ Ive got the magic 
power of the music in me.
You begin to fantasize about being a rockstar as you consider the power and beauty of 
the music.
Eventually you begin to examine the men 
on stage. Their dress, you decide, is incredi
bly plain compared to other stars youve 
seen. Lead guitarist/vocalist Rik Emmet, 
the flashiest dresser of the trio, wears spandex pants and a tank top.
Drummer/lead vocalist Gil Moore prefers 
jeans and a T-shirt, while bassist/keyboard
ist Mike Levine opts for jeans and a Toronto 
Maple Leafs jersey.
Triumph is basically an individualist 
band. None of its members have ever done 
work with another group or as a solo effort. 
They own their own Toronto studio where 
several other bands, including Red Ryder 
(Lunatic Fringe), also record, and pro
duce their own albums. They do most of 
their own writing as well.
About two thirds of the way through the 
concert, Gil Moore stands upon his rostrum 
and announces, And now, we send you our 
best.
ting interview assures 3ang of Four not a punk band
ontinued from page 19
t in that era.
Tartan: Theres no denying that your 
mgs have some political emphasis. . . 
King: Were not political evangelists. . 
m a musician, thats what I do for a living. 
Theyre songs with strong content. All 
mds used to want to write songs widi connt, in the sixties, everybody used to write 
ings with content. In the seventies they 
rote songs about their divorces or how bad 
eir womans been. Theres nothing wrong 
ith that, but its boring. People like songs 
ith content  thats why they listen to 
ruce Springsteen or even country and west
ern music, because they reflect the commun
ity from which you came.
The doors opened at 8 p.m. to a varied 
crowd which included some eye-catching 
punks. The Ballroom got hot and crowded 
as people started jumping to the opening 
band, Easter Island. The Gang of Four came 
on at about 9 p.m. and opened with 
Paralysed
Jon King, who had appeared relatively 
calm and under control before the show, 
went wild on stage.
The group played until about 11.-00, com
ing back for three encores.s.,
Hypnotist Ken Weber
The crowd cheers then quiets in anticipa
tion while you wonder what is next All 
spotlights shine on Rik Emmet, who stands 
grinning disarmingly  guitar in hand.
He begins gently travelling through his 
moods playing variations on Triumph 
songs and even American folk tunes. He 
does not play behind his back, he does not 
play with his feet, and he does not whirl 
about the stage a la Angus Young (AC/DC).
He plays because he loves it, and you are 
soon captivated by the incredible talent of 
this young man.
The rest of the band rejoins him after a 
tremendous ovation, and plays a final set. 
After the crowd pleasing encore, Hot Time 
in Pittsburgh Tonight, the show is over.
You leave the arena happily drained and 
feeling, oddly enough, as if youve won 
something.
"So this is Triumph, you say, and walk 
slowly to your car.
Hypnotist at CMU
Ken Weber, nationally known hypnotist 
and mentalist, will be performing tomor
row night, Wednesday, October 6, at 8 p.m. 
in the Skibo Ballroom. The show is pres
ented by AB Lectures.
Newsweek magazine said Ken Weber is 
one of the most recommended performers 
for college audiences, and he has won Play
boy Clubs Entertainer of the Year award. 
His show is a highly entertaining (and very 
funny) demonstration of the incredible 
powers of the mind.
A native New Yorker, Weber is certified in 
Clinical Hypnotherapy by the UCLA Medi
cal School. An expert in his field, he will 
answer questions after the show. His main 
purpose, however, is entertainment. Using 
members of the audience he has never met, 
Ken guarantees you will see things you will 
never see on television.
PREPARE FORMCAT-LSAT'GMAT SAT DAT *GRE  CPA
Permanent Centers open days, 
evenings and weekends.
Low hourly cost. Dedicated full
time staff.
Complete TEST-n-TAPEsMfacilities 
for review of class lessons and 
supplementary materials.
Small classes taught by skilled 
instructors.
 Opportunity to make up missed 
lessons.
 Voluminous home-study materials 
constantly updated by research
ers expert in their field.
 Opportunity to transfer to and 
continue study at any of our 
over 85 centers.
OTHER COURSES AVAILABLE
GRE PSYCH & BIO  MAT  PCAT  OPAT  VAT  TOEFL 
MSKP  NMB  VQE  ECFMG  FLEX  NDB  NLE
_ V"  * Call Days Eves O Weekends
Tl. Essex House L12
KHDLflliComers Center, Negley & Baur 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206
ECHICATIONAL CENTER 
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SWCE1938661-2772
THE LATEST IN ELECTONIC GAMES / PINBALL MACHINES
Domestics
12 oz. & 16 oi. cans (& quarts)
STROHS
IOWENBRAU II.. Dk-bottles
MICHEIOB
BUDWEISER*
MILLER"
OLD ENGLISH 800*
SCHLITZ MALT*
IRON CITY*
ERLANGERbottles 
GENNESEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHMIDTS*
PABST*
SCHLITZ*
PEARL (Texos)bottles 
DOUBLE DARK-bottles 
BLATZ 
PIELS
OLD MILWAUKEE 
PINK CHAMP ALE-bottles*
COLT 45*
MILLER LITE 
MICHEIOB LITE 
IRON CITY LIGHT
ovodobU in quartt oho
FEATURING 22 VARIETIES OF SUBS
Stc< jVCcxnd BeefeTuna*Tudtey
SANDWICHES
HaddockeCodeGround SteokeSouioge 
VeoieChuckeChtcken Parmesan
SPECIALTY ITEMS
Steak Subs^Fresh Cut French Fries 
Hot Dogs with choice of 12 condiments 
Pizro served till 3om
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
Serving beer Sunday lpm-2om 
Imports, Cons, Quarts, Draft Pitchers/Mugs 
Your Choice '1 V Draft Beers: 
HEINEKENMOlSON AlE*MICHELOB 
STROHS*MIUER*SCHLITZ MALT 
One different 16 '" V pk. 
featured each week: 
STROHS**OltlNG ROCKSCHLITZ 
OLD ENGLISH 500SCHtlTZMALTPABST
-ImportsBECK S Lt. DV -Germany SI PAUII GtRl - Germany
BASS Alf -England DOS EQUIS XX-Wewo
HARP lAGER - Ireland JOHN COURAGE Engkmd
MOlSON GOLDENCanada WATNf VS fnykmd 
HEINE KE N It. . Holland CARlSRf RG ELEPHANT -Den
IOWENBRAU  Get my 
OKEEfE ALE-Canada 
PtlSNER URQUEll -Czech 
ICIRIN  Jafxm
MACKE SON STOUT -Ireland
CARLSBERG ROTAIE -Denmark 
CARtSBERG DARK -Denmark 
TSINGAO -Ch,n,,
HACKER PSCHORR - Germany 
IABATTSCanada
OLD VIENNA IAGER- Canada MURPH* Ireland 
55 lAGER - Canada COOPER 4 SON - Austria
fOSTER S LAGER -Australia
^ V Open9am 3 45am Sun Thurs I||i4| 9om 4 45om Fri-Sot MJtmkJUk Call 621 7388 or 621-1185 3901 Forbes Ave. (Oakland)
MOT DOG SHOPS. INC. Pg*. * 5213
Senate Agenda
1. Call to Order, 7:00, Wherrett Room
2. Approval of the minutes
3. Audience Participation
4. Officers Reports
Dean Walter  Administration 
Dean Cox  Administration 
Nate Solano  President 
Mark Marsella  SDC 
Charles Krafft  GSO 
Gina Fleitman  UFO 
Alexandra Kavoulakis  Chairman 
Janelle Molloy  Vice-Chairman
5. Senate Standing Committee Reports
Rules  Filling of AMS Vacancy 
Academic Affairs  Announcements 
GC&I  Announcements 
Finance  Announcements6. New Business
7. General Discussion
8. Announcements
9. Adjournment

---------------------------------------------------

Pag 22The TartanOctober 5, 1982
Tartan Interview II: The Wrath of Roddenberry
continued from page 19
humanoids than I would have liked to have 
had, because I'm sure that other planets with 
different backgrounds and slightly different 
compositions would have different kinds of 
life forms.
Unfortunately we made this for a 190 
thousand dollars a week. You cant afford to 
do much but use actors and actors are dis
gusting: they come with two arms, two legs, 
two eyes. Spock, for example, I realized that 
one way I could make him look different 
was to give him the ears, change the eyes, his 
haircut and give the rest in the way he acted 
in the logic and all of that
Theres a limit to how much of that you 
can do, so we were stuck pretty much with 
humanoid figures.
Tartan: Were you happy about the casting 
of Star Trek? Did you do it?
Roddenberry: I liked the first Star Trek 
movie where they had the bald-headed girl. I
liked her very much. But I doubt that theres 
a part for her in the second. The second one 
has the guy who played Khan. . .
Tartan: Ricardo Montalban?
Roddenberry: Yes. He played in the first 
science fiction thing I ever did, ten years 
before Star Trek. I think he was a brilliant 
piece of casting.
Tartan: What about the show, the televi
sion series ? What did you think of your 
casting?
Roddenberry: Since I did most of the cast
ing, I liked it. If I hadnt liked it, I wouldve 
changed it.
Tartan: Did you have any problems with 
mechanical things on ar Trek? 
Roddenberry: We didnt have that many. 
My theory of doing Star Trek, science fiction 
and making it different from some of this 
stuff that had been on before is to really 
center on humans, make it about people. So 
many science fiction things before Star Trek
photo by Rowshanak Hashemiyoon
Mime troupe Toymaker and Son performed a morality play on the cut last week. Theshow 
was sponsored by Gateway Christian Fellowship.
Shakespeare 
Marathon
'yS*- ^ JV'fcA;/ V " "  ' 'OC; >
Saturday, October 9 
9 a.m.  9 p.m.
Sign up Skibo 40D
had been about gadgets.
You cant make a good show about 
gadgets. Drama is us, what we do, what we 
feel, how we hurt, how we rejoice. In Star 
Trek I put all my emphasis on the people 
thats why everyone doesnt talk about the 
Starship or the zapguns, they talk about 
Spock, Kirk, McCoy, Scotty and things like 
that.
And so I cast it very carefully for that 
orchestrated type, each one is different from 
the other. Then the adventures arent that 
bizarre, if youre there with familiar faces. 
And that was the whole plan of it.
Tartan: Did you model any characters after 
certain people?
Roddenberry: I think every writer puts in 
characters some dream images or some
thing. I think certainly I wrote the captain as 
the commander that I wish I could have 
been. Never make a mistake, bold, brave, 
eternally fine.
I have screwed up my life so many times 
from emotion, that Spock was definitely an 
effort like Wow, wouldnt it be great to not
to be bothered with it. Besides, I knew that if 
I made him slighdy satanic and cruel, then 
women wouldve died over him.
Tartan: How was it  working with Wil
liam Shatner and Leonard Nimoy? 
Roddenberry: It was a joy; it was really a joy, 
We worked together well.
Tartan: What are your plans for the future] 
Roddenberry: What I would love to do u 
write novels. Then I wouldnt have to work 
with anyone but myself and the publisher, 
Theres a certain selfishness in art an< 
properly so. I am a selfish artist; Im noi 
producing the movies cause I cant do it mi 
way.
Tartan: How do you feel about the extreme 
commercialization that's gone one iviti 
Star Trek  like t-shirts and lunch boxes 
Roddenberry: Thats nothing against Sta\ 
Trek; thats our foolish culture.
Tartan: What would you like to be remem
bered for the most?
Roddenberry: I havent decided what I 
going to be yet, so I dont know. . . 
Tartan: Sounds good to me.
"MacBeth" challenges cliches
Sponsored by Scotch N Soda 
CMUs drama club
By BENNET FIDLOW
Tartan Staffwriter
The Drama Department kicks off its sea
son this Monday with a real thriller. Shakes
peares, Macbeth directed by Michael 
Ladenson is being presented in the studio 
theatre behind the Fine Arts building as a 
masters thesis in directing.
Ladenson chose Macbeth to challenge the 
idea of classic theatre. He believes that in 
the intimate setting of the studio theatre the 
real nightmare of a litde man and his drive 
to get ahead at any cost will hit home. Mac
beth is an interesting story as is any other 
play. Its wrong to view it as a massive, 
unapproachable classic, urges Ladenson. 
He also thinks that school is the atmosphere 
to explore. Macbeth represents not only his 
favorite play but a chance to experiment 
with an inspiring piece of literature.
The play should come off as a dreamlike 
nightmare, plans the director. By making a 
strong attempt to do away with cliche horTerminals and Modems For Rent 
, Call (412) 335-9815 
International Automation, Inc.
Suite 200 Mellon Bank Building 
New Kensington, PA 15068-6376
ror effects. He hopes to achieve a more inti 
mate and realistic production.
Along with the idea of going again 
cliche, the two leads are not fear inspirin 
characters. Tom Delvanthol as Macbeth 
not the great Shakespearean hero and Paia 
Brewster as Lady Macbeth is a young 
looking blonde rather than evil incamati
Performances are Monday, Oct. 11 at 
p.m., Tuesday 12 at 4:30 p.m. and 8, 
Wednesday 13 at 4:30. Admission is free bi 
seating will be limited by the size of 
studio.
CMU astronaut 
grad will speal
Edgar Mitchell, pilot of the Apollo 
lunar landing craft in 1971, will dis 
Todays Dream--TomoiTows Reality atj 
p.m., Friday, Oct. 8 in the auditorium 
GSIA.
Since his retirement from the U.S. Na(f 
in 1972, Mitchell has gained intemation 
recognition for his research in hur 
resources and potential and has beena < 
sultant in human resources management! 
corporations around the world.
He is the founder of the Institute of Nc 
Sciences and author of the book, Psyc 
Exploration, A Challenge for Science.''
Mitchell is a 1952 graduate of Came 
Institute of Technology. In 1971 he receiv 
an honorary doctorate from CMU.
LEGAL SERVICES RELATED TO IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION
John S. Brendel 
Buchanan, Ingersoll, Rodewald, Kyle & Buerger*,
Professional CorporationTEMPORARY VISAS PERMANENT VISASI(GREEN CARDS)LABOR CERTIFICATIONS RELATIVE PETITIONS CITIZENSHIP 
600 Grant Street 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 
412-562-8972
Pennsylvania does not recognize or certify legal specialties.

---------------------------------------------------

[Tartans rebound from last week and kill Thiel
ly DOUG REINSTEIN
rartan Staffwriter
I Fresh after a 21-19 defeat at the hands of 
I he Hiram Terriers last week, the CMU Tarlans exploded offensively and defensively 
I Saturday at the expense of the Thiel Tomlats. While the offense rolled up 49 points, 
he Tartan defense held Thiel to a mere 34 
ards rushing.
I The first drive set the stage for the entire 
jiftemoon. Bill Kiselick engineered a 78 yard 
I hive lasting 6:39. Behind the running of 
dike Garverick (19 for 67) and Bill "Snake 
tiselick (10 for 68), the Tartans moved easily 
lown the field. Brad Hu war capped off the 
I hive with a 2 yard touchdown dive behind 
I he right side of the Tartan line.
I Later in the first quarter, CMUs offense 
reared up for another TD drive. Preceeded 
>y a 15 yard run, Kiselick hit Dan Fry for a 
ards, into Thiel territory. Then, after a 
ark Tinker Leposky reception was 
I ailed back for illegal use of the hands, KiselI :k hit tight end Harley Carrol crossing the 
  for a 37 yard touchdown. This 66 
drive was concluded with completing
2 point conversion, from Kiselick to 
CMU led 14-0.
Tartan defensive corps, led by lineJoe Nardone, Mike Holodnik, Lee 
and Pat Campbell, finally yielded 
first 1st down with 11:10 left in the 
quarter. Following that, a Miale pass 
picked off by comerback Chris OMara 
he returned it 18 yards to the Thiel 36. 
It didnt take CMU long to strike again, 
rolled left and hit wide receiver 
Leposky. Tinker caught the ball 
dove the last 2 yards into the end zone, 
now, the Tartan offense was in complete
CMU hasnt finished for the first half yet. 
J ave Zito (5 for 8,91 yards) executed a 72 yard 
ve of his own. Surrounding his own 17 
run, he completed two passes. First, a 
yarder to Dave Richards and then, a 14 
ier to John Jethro Wise. Zito capped 
:f the drive with a 4 yard touchdown run 
ound left end. The score at half-time was 
U 27 Thiel 0.
The Tartans started the second half the 
le way they ended the first. Kiselick cometed successive passes to Harley Carrol
Jim Morrison (30) and Rich DiLucente(63) lead the way for running back Joe Vasalani (44) as he takes the hand off from QB Bill Kiselick 
(13) en route to another touchdown drive in CMUs 49-7 win.
tans from their own 28 to the Thiel 29. After __ _ __ _Baseball dub to be a team
a 1st down run by Garverick, Snake went the 
final 7 by himself.
Late in the 3rd quarter, a Mike OShip 45 
yard punt was fumbled by Thiel, and reco
vered by Victor Boland on the 1 yard line. 
On the following play, Jim Morrison 
powered off right tackle for the score. With 
the extra point, CMU led 42-7.
Thiels lone score came at the opening of 
the second half. Miale hit Barry Wright with 
an 8 yard toss on 4th down.
Zito rounded out the scoring with a 5 yard 
run early in the 4th quarter. He gained 51 
yards on just 6 carries.
Aiding the defensive line, the linebackers, 
consisting of co-capt. Lee Ferketic, Mike 
ODonnell, and Jerry Clarke, kept pressure 
on Miale. This led to two interceptions, one 
by OMara and the other by Clarke.
Next week the Tartans host the Gators 
from Allegheny. It will be the homecoming
^ hard against favored Slippery
By PETER KLEINHAUS
Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU baseball Tartans have opened 
their fifth season. Led by coach William 
Allen, the Tartans, a club rather than a var
sity team, play in both the spring and fall, 
against varsity teams from the surrounding 
area. The club is planning to expand into a 
varsity team in the spring of 1984.
Heading the cast of Fall 82 starting play
ers are club veterans Mike Seel, Ed Novae, 
and Tim Negy. Seel(CF) and Novac(lB) 
lead the clubs offensive attack, while Negy 
sets the defensive tone as the Tartans start
ing catcher. The other starters, by position, 
are Ken Zalevsky, 2B; Mike Homer, SS; Bart 
Miller, 3B; Larry Ropelewski, LF; and Mike
Cressman, RF.
The mound staff for the Tartans includes 
Novae, Bob Flaherty, Eric Muennichon, 
and Bobby Kiebler, with Buzz DiMartino 
providing the late-inning relief. A couple of 
last years starters are missing, but the new 
rotation appears capable of withstanding 
the loss.
Right now, the club is 5-9, a respectable 
record against some of the nearby baseball 
colleges. The season closes after next week, 
and while there are no playoffs and such to 
aim for, the Tartans do take their final 
record seriously. The Tartans finished at 8-8 
last year, a percentage within reach this year 
if they can close out the season successfully.
Soccer team loses tough one
By PHILIP CASTEL
Tartan Staffwriter
In a tough batde, the Tartan soccer team 
fell to regionally ranked Slippery Rock by 
the narrow margin of 1-0. Before the match, 
Slippery Rock had been ranked No. 2 in this 
Division II region. CMUs record fell to 2-3.
In the first half, play for both sides was 
fairly even. CMU had many opportunities 
to score but the Tartans were unable to capi
talize. CMU played extremely welldisciplined soccer as they held their ground 
against their tough opposition. Despite the 
strong offense of Slippery Rock, the Tartan 
defense held and the first half ended 
scoreless.
The second half saw a let down in CMUs 
aggressiveness and enthusiasm as Slippery 
Rock came to play in the second half and 
controlled the flow of the game with a pre
cise short passing game. The Tartans were 
unable to get anything going, choosing to
look for the long pass and breakaway score. 
This showed a lack of patience by the 
Tartans.
Slippery Rock scored the game winning 
and only goal approximately 10 minutes 
into the half. Slippery Rocks right winger 
came down the side line with the ball and 
proceeded to chip the ball across the middle. 
The chip was short and CMUs keeper 
Robert Borne, came out out to make the 
play. Borne mishandled the ball and 
Slippery Rocks striker put the ball into the 
open net.
Afterwards, co-captain Dave Jacobs 
lamented, "we missed a few close opportun
ities that were just wide. We played well in 
the first half but we let down in 2nd half. We 
just ran out of time. He also added, We 
have a very young team with only 4 return
ing lettermen. This year, 4 freshmen are 
starting as there is talent with the 
underclassmen.Netters gain in conference
Rock but lost 1-0.
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Associate Features Editor
CMUs womens tennis team rolled over 
Chatham, Washington and Jefferson, and 
Bethany last week, boosting their unde
feated record in conference play to 4-0 and 
their overall performance to 6-2.
The Tartans are playing extremely solid 
tennis and they once again appear to be on 
their way toward recapturing their PWC
crown. Coach Mark Bush is doing a fine job 
erf setting the girls into shpe by having 
them run as well as drilling their serves, 
volleys, overheads, and returns of serve.
CMU is fortunate to have a tremendous 
amount of depth. Against the Bethany 
Bisons on Friday, Lorena Miller moved up a 
notch on the ladder and won her match, 6-4,
6-0, playing third instead of fourth singles.
continued on page 26

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24The TartanOctober 5, 1982
New IM sports coming soon
There will be a very important IM board 
meeting, Thursday Oct. 7 at 1 p.m. in room 
104, gym. President Dave Penz would like 
all board members to make sure they attend.
IM bowling entries are due Thursday, Oct 
7, for the upcoming season. A commissioner 
is still needed. All matches will be played at 
the Strands Alleys in Oakland.
Racquetball, with comm. Kris Tuttle, 
682-0144, also must have all of its entries by 
the 7th. Please check IM bulletin board for 
schedules. Team table-tennis, too, needs its 
entries by the 7th. It also needs a 
commissioner.
There has not been an entry date set for 
IM soccer yet. However, team lists can still 
be handed in. A commissioner is needed for 
this sport too. Team volleyball entries are 
due Oct. 14 at 4:30 p.m. Comm. Joe Bares 
x3405 is waiting with baited breath.
Schedules are out for water polo, chess, 
and co-rec volleyball. All can be picked up at 
the IM office. Water polo scores should be 
noted on the score sheet provided for each 
game, chess scores should be reported to 
comm. Ed Klehr x8646, and co-rec volley
ball scores should also be noted on the score
LATS
ZBT-A 
Phi-Kapp A 
The House 
The Flickers 
The Steroid Conn. 
Beta AA 
TRAPS 
Hitman
Big Beef Burrito 
Sigma Nu 
ATO II
Taps
QUADS
D-Force 
Theta Xi A 
Y. Us Pedes 
DU I
The Tech Police
WIN
1
1
0
12
0
WIN
1
1
0
0
3
WIN
12
3
0
1
MINORS 
HEAD SLAP WIN
Phi-Kapp B 0
Hairy Mollusks 3
PIKA C 2
Ozzies Wizards 0
Flying Armadillos 0
$$ ENGINEERING STUDENTS $$
The Air Force's College Senior 
Engineer Program (CSEP) will assist 
you financially during the last year 
of undergraduate or graduate studies.
The CSEP program allows you to 
join the Air Force while still in 
school and receive more than $900 
per month in pay and allowances plus 
full Air Force benefits. After you 
graduate and complete Officer Train
ing School, you'll receive a commis
sion as an Air Force Engineering 
Officer.
For more information, contact 
Sgt. Bob Winterhalter at 644-2705.
All freshman and sophomore engin
eering students and juniors planning 
a graduate program should see the 
AFROTC Professor of Aerospace 
Studies or contact the AFROTC 
Admissions Counselor, Major 
Stanger at 624-6038.
MU
A great way of Me
LOSS
1
12
1
0
0
LOSS
1
12
1
0
LOSS
1
1
0
LOSS
1
0
1
12
sheets.CLIPPINGWINLOSS
3-E30TOUCH FOOTBALL7-E Lunatics21
DU II02
MAJORSWhalers02
AFCWINLOSSKS B11
ATO A01OFF SIDESWINLOSSBeta A00GWANGI30Harrys Tavern11Fatsos11PIKA A10Who Cares II22SAE A11Theta Xi B04
NFCWINLOSSNP-Completions21
KS A10FACE MASKINGWINLOSS
Coaches All Stars20Skull Krushers11
Slabbers II01G.D.I04
Wild Bunch02Whankers12
INTERMEDIATESCrash Crew30
HAMSTRINGWINLOSSSchlag A-320
The Oslo Men30INTERFERENCEWINLOSS
First Years02E-Force12
MSI SUPA01Chem. Abstracts11
1 Bike Motor Gang 11Sigma Nu12
Boys From Brado11Renegades21
Bossmen11Sun Devils10
Adam Rizika shows how tough rugby can be.
photo by John Stilwel
ROUGHING
SAE
Army ROTC 
Dohertys Ds 
The Wade Squad 
DTD
HOLDING
The Spliffs 
Trojanz 
T & A
Back is Black 
Mike cant throw
WIN
1
0
1
3
1
WIN
0
32
1
0
WOMEN 
TEAMS WIN
5-E 1
DDD 0
GSIA 1
KKG 0
Fruit of the Loom 1
LOSS
1
3
1
1
1
LOSS2
0
0
2
2
LOSS
1
0
1
1
0
IM TENNIS
- MAJORS
CONNORSWINLOSS
Phi Kappa Theta B21
Boys from Brador01
Photons20
Play Level02
Math20
Theta Xi02
LENDELWINLOSS
Phi Kappa Theta A30
Elec. Engineering02
Harrys Tavern01
Drop Shots10
GSIA10
ACES02
McENROEWINLOSS
ZBT12
Arpanets Blur30
DU12
Kat Guts02
HH21321
Inz1X 1
MINORS
BORGWINLOSS
Nets02
7E Faults01
DCC10
Phi Kappa Theta C11
Slump30
Arpanets Gold12
Life, the Universe and Everything
The Cosmic Conclusion to the 
Hitchhikers Trilogy
By Douglas Adams
First there was the best-selling The 
Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy! Next, the 
smashingly successful The Restaurant at the 
End of the Universe! And now; Life., the 
Universe and Everything  a modest book 
that guarantees to clear up every last little 
question about existence.
$9.95 hardcover
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

October 5, 1982The TartanPage 25
A world of op po r t u n ify aw&i fS fh ose 
graduates who choose to efiter careers 
at the National Security Agency From 
the very outset they will influence the 
growth and direction of their fields of 
specialization. They will work in a chal
lenging and stimulating environment 
where matters affecting the security of 
the nation are part of our day to day acti
vity.
You too can experience this world 
of opportunity and challenge in any of 
these NSA career fields:
Electronic Engineering: There 
are opportunities in a variety of 
research and development projects 
ranging from individual equipments to 
very complex interactive systems invol
ving large numbers of microprocessors.
mini-computers and computer graphics 
Professional growth is enhanced through 
interaction with highly experienced NSA 
professionals and through contacts in 
the industrial and academic worlds. 
Facilities for engineering analysis and 
design automation are among the best 
available
Computer Science: At NSA you II
discover one of the largest computer 
installations in the world with almost 
every major vendor of computer equip
ment represented NSA careers provide
minores of such discjs as systems Na
analysis and design, scientific applica- (WES), 
tions programming, data base manage- 20755 
ment systems, operating systems, 
computer networking security, and An 
graphics. U.S. C
WES). Fort George G Meade. Maryland
An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
U S Citizenship Required.
Mathematics: You II work on diverse 
agency problems applying a variety of 
mathematical disciplines. Specific 
assignments might include solving 
com mu meat ions-re la ted problems, 
performing long-range mathematical 
research or evaluating new techniques 
for communications security.
The Rewards at NSA
NSA offers a salary and benefit 
program that's truly competitive with 
private industry There are assignments 
for those who wish to travel and abundant 
good living in the Baltimore-Washington 
aiea for those who wish to stay close to 
home
Countless cultural. historical 
recreational and educational opportun
ities are just minutes away from NSA s 
convenient suburban location.
To find out more about NSA career 
opportunities, schedule an interview 
through your college placement office 
For additional information on the National 
Security Agency.' write to Mr William 
Shores. College Recruitment Officer.
\ The National |r Security - Agency
learning never ends.
Cross country wins a pair
By FRANK MATOUSEK
Tartan Staffwriter
Once again, the CMU harriers have added 
more wins to their long list of victories.
On Saturday, October 2nd, CamegieMellon ran Bethany College and Jeanette 
Running Qub at home, and easily beat both 
teams. CMUs dual meet winning streak is 
now 32 meets in a row.
The race was held at Schenley Park Satur
day morning, in almost ideal conditions. 
The CMU runners ran like it too. Six out of 
the top nine runners were Tartans, and the 
first five placers for CMU (CMUs scorers) 
were: Mike Short and John Wessels (tied for 
first place), and Kevin Brewer, Laurand 
Lewendowski, and Mark Merlie (tied for
fifth place). Many of CMUs runners also 
ran their best times on the home course at 
this meet.
At least four of CMUs better runners sat 
out last weekend to rest, so it would seem 
that Bethany and Jeanette never had a 
chance. As it was, with a smaller (and 
weaker) team, Camegie-Mellon still came 
through with big wins. They beat Bethany 
by a score of 18-42 (lowest score wins), and 
they beat Jeanette 18-44.
The CMU cross country team is looking 
fine after last weekends homemeet, and will 
travel to Cleveland next Saturday to take on 
Case Western Reserve University, John Car
roll University, and Thiel College.
Joe Mramor kicks another extra point for CMU.
Sports beat
' Field hockey (2-1). The CMU field hockey 
team, under the direction of Joan Maser, 
earned two victories last week, as they 
i defeated defending champion Bethany, 2-1,
I and Washington.& Jefferson, 4-2.
A years experience proved fruitful, as the
Tartans avenged last years overtime loss to 
Bethany. Peggy Kennefick and Maria 
Lacroce each scored. .
CMU, who found themselves trailing 
W&J early in the game, found offensive 
power as Lynne Otto scored a hat trick and 
Kennefick added her second goal of the 
week.
Strong bench help women win
continuad from page 23
This type of clutch play is typical of the 
entire team. The bench is not comprised 
of poorer players; rather, it contains highlyqualified younger players patiently waiting 
to break into the strong starting lineup. 
They are currently proving themselves as 
valuable players in their exhibition
matches.
Tomorrow, the tennis team will play 
California State College in its last home
match. With the PWC tournament less than 
two weeks away, the girls will continue to
work hard during practices to maintain 
their impressive calibre of playing.

---------------------------------------------------

TOM rautsTO YOUR THINKING.
The environment at MITRE is years ahead of what others consider the state-ofthe-art.
As General Systems Engineer for C3I  Command, Control, Communications and 
Intelligence  for the U.S. Air Forces Electronic Systems Division, it is our 
challenge to look beyond tomorrow to the world of 5 or 10 years from now. To 
analyze and engineer one-of-a-kind systems that will be more than current well 
into the 1990s.
The importance of our work is why we provide an environment you can do your 
best in. Youll work with some of the most accomplished experts in their fields. 
You will be challenged by long- and short-term projects in computer systems, 
systems software, systems architecture, radar systems, and satellite and ter
restrial transmission. Engineers youll be working with can advance your career a 
decade in technologies including fiber-optics, computer security, sensor 
technology and voice recognition.
Your excellence is nurtured in every way possible at MITRE. Facilities, 
compensation and benefits to attract and keep the finest people. Full tuition ad
vancement plus an ongoing in-house lecture series from tne unique MITRE In
stitute to promote your continued education. Plus exceptional project mobility 
and dual career pathing to get you where you want to be, doing what you do best.
If you would like 10 more years wisdom  without the wrinkles  come to 
MITRE. Weve got the environment for it.
Camegie-Mellon University 
Interviews 
Friday, October 8,1982
MITRE will be conducting campus interviews Friday, October 8, 1982. Contact 
your Placement Office to arrange an interview if you are a BS, MS, or Ph.D. 
candidate in:
Electrical Engineering Computer Engineering Computer Science Mathematics Physics
Contact your placement office to see if MITRE will be visiting your campus, 
or send your resume to Phillip Hicks at The MITRE Corporation, 
Middlesex Turnpike, Bedford, MA 01730.
U.S. Citizenship required. MITRE is an equal opportunity employer actively 
seeking applications under its affirmative action program.
THE ENVIRONMENT TO DO WHAT YOU DO BEST.MITRE

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
classified
Tutoring in math, science; beginning drum les
sons. Gill Kim, 578-3082 or Ed, 661-0677.
Campus rep  USA Today  earn $40-$ 100 
per week. USA Today, a new national news
paper, needs a representative to sell and deliver 
newspapers Monday through Friday mornings 
on campus. No holiday/weekend work. Sales 
experience helpful. Youll earn excellent money 
while you learn to run your own business. Con
tact Paul Glancy, USA Today, at 366-9764, on 
Tues. Oct. 5 or Wed. Oct 6 only. An equal oppor
tunity employer.
Professional typing and word processing. Fast, 
efficient, reasonable. Speeches, manuscripts, 
research papers. 24 hr. service. Satisfaction gua
ranteed. For best results call Ms. West. 371-3657.
$20 for return of two books (Electromagnetic 
Fields by Wangsness, Sc Art of Electronics by 
Horowitz). Stolen Saturday Sept. 18, from WEH 
5427 between 5:10 and 7:00 p.m. CAI.I. CLAY 
PALMER, x4354. No questions asked!! Books 
can easily be identified by the unique highlight
ing style.
Students: need help with German? Call 578-2600.
Roommate needed, Squirrel Hill. Own room, 
spacious apartment. Near transportation. 
$215/month includes everthing. Available 
November 1. Conservative living valued. 422-
3875.
Garage wanted, to rent, where I can work on my 
car. Close to Shadyside. Call Ingemar 441-0610.
IMPROVE YOUR GRADES! Research Catalog
 306 pages  10,278 topics. Rush $1.00 Box 
25097C Los Angeles, CA 90025 (213) 477-8226.
Guitar lessons  Classical, Jazz, Pop. third year 
CMU music student. Vt hr.  $6; 1 hr.  $10. Call 
Jozsef Toth 683-7331.
How would you like to earn $500 in four weeks as 
a rent-a-color agent cm campus leasing TV and 
video equipment to fellow students. Full advertis
ing & promotional backup. For details contact 
Richard Bretcko at 655-8770.
French cafe in Shadyside looking for French 
speaking students to work as waitresses or wait
ers. Call Domian Stoffer at 963-1500.
Furnished room, private bath in large old home 
five blocks from CMU. Art students preferred. 
$225 per month. 681-2277 evenings.
Professional typing/word processing: Thesis, 
manuscripts, research, resumes, repetitive letters, 
etc. (MLA  APA & Turabian strongly 
observed.) Large variety of typefaces and 24 hour 
service available. Call Mrs. West. 371-3657. Satis
faction guaranteed.
Available Now! Huge room for rent in lovely Sq. 
Hill house. Female to share w/3. Washer/dryer, 
easy walk to CMU. $200+ /month. Peggy (x2496) 
or 682-6968 eves.
clubs
Society erf Women Engineers meeting, Tuesday, 
October 5, 8:00, in rm. 12 Skibo.
JOE FRESHMAN
The Student Senate meets every Tuesday night at 
7:00 in the Wherrett Room. Students are invited 
to come and address the Senate during Audience 
Participation.
general
St. Basils Orthodox Christian Fellowship will 
meet each Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in Skibo Room 
45 for group discussion, Bible study, and fellow
ship. Divine Liturgy will be celebrated each Sun
day at 10:45 a.m. in Skibo Chapel (Room 39). All 
are welcome.
LIKE DINOSAURS? LIKE MONET? The Car
negie Museum of Natural History and the 
Museum of Art are looking for you if youre 
interested in being a valued volunteer. You can 
work in a variety of places within the two muse
ums: Gift Shop, Paleontology, Art, Insects, Edu
cation, Birds. . . .call Alisa Thompson in 
VOLUNTEERS for more information. (622- QyQ 
3318)
Gateway Christian Fellowship is holding weekly 
interdenominational bible studies. The womens 
bible study meets on Thursdays at 6:30 p.m. in 
Morewood 1-G1. The mens bible study is held 
on Wednesdays at 7:30 p.m. in the basement of 
Skibo in rm. 39 (chapel). All are invited to share 
in spirit-filled fellowship and the joy of knowing 
God. For more information call 682-7374.
Kollel Bais Yitzchok, Pittsburghs Torah Center,
announced that beginning immediately, in con
junction with Bnai Brith Hillel on campus, the 
Kollel will conduct a weekly class and discussion 
group on the inner meaning erf Judaism and the 
Jewish people. This will take place every Wed
nesday evening at 6:30 p.m. at the BNai Brith 
Hillel dining hall, on the third floor of the Jew
ish Community Center at 315 South Bellefield 
Avenue in Oakland.
The class and discussion group will be led by 
Rabbi Yehuda Marmorstein, Resident Scholar at 
the Kollel. Rabbi Marmorstein is a native of Lon
don, England, and has been with the Kollel 
slightly over a year. For further information call 
the Kollel at 521-9514 or BNai Brith Hillel at 
621-8875.
The Country Dance and Song Society of Pitts
burgh Invites you to join them in learning the 
HanrM of England, New England and Appala
chia every Sunday evening in October.
The group will meet October 3,10,17,24 and
31 in die Social Hall of East liberty Presbyterian 
Church, Highland Ave. at Penn Ave. at 8:00 p.m.
All dances are taught Partners are not neces
sary. Beginners are welcome.
For further information phone 362*5162 or 
781-1345.
An Informal Bible Discussion group meets every 
Monday in room 39, Skibo Hall, at 9 p.m. This 
discussion group is open to everyone in the CMU 
community and it is non-denominational. Stop 
by, and bring a friend.
Simcha Torah celebration, BNai Brith Hillel, 
7:30 p jn. Includes dancing, singing and natural 
food feast RSVP, 621-8875.
President Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 and 5 p.m., in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Tuesday, October 12, 
1982. Students who wish to meet with the presi
dent should telephone his office, 578-2200, to set 
up an appointment.
WRCT (88.3 FM) features:
 Wed. (9 p.m.), Oct. 6 and Sat. (midnight), Oct. 
9:
BBC COLLEGE CONCERT HOUR . . . 
Spandex Ballet/ Flock of Seagulls 
recorded live in concert
 every Thursday (6 p.m.): WEEKLY READER
news and views others ignore
 every Sun. (9 p.m.  noon) and Mon. (noon
 3): FOLK MUSIC shows on WRCT
SDC Saturday Films
Well folks, the movie this week is Star Wars 
(Chapter 4 A New Hope from the Journal of 
the Whills). If you dont know what its about 
then you obviously have been hanging around 
the architecture studios too long (and if that is the 
case may I be the first to congratulate you for 
picking up a newspaper). So anyway go see the 
movie! Better yet go see it a couple of times! (and 
for all those wanting revenge dont worry! theres 
an architecture living down the hail! What? Hey, 
not the T-bar. Noooo. . )
Macbeth in the studio theater next to the Fine 
Arts building October 11 and 12, 4:30 and 8:00, 
October 13, 4:30. FREE
Behind the Scenes in the Section of Entomology , 
which will take place from 9:30 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. 
on Saturday, October 23, goes behind the 
museum exhibits and public spaces to the Sec
tion of Entomology, where scientists and staff 
members care for and study more than 6 million 
butterflies, moths, beetles, and other insect speci
mens. Participants (ages ten and above) will tour 
the insect laboratories, leam the history of the 
collections, and observe the departments day-today curatorial, research, and public activities.
The Penn Hills Players are proud to announce 
the cast for the upcoming production of Whose 
Life Is It Anyway?. Director Marge Irelands 
selections reflect the fact that the group entertains 
people from Penn Hills nd the entire eastern 
Pittsburgh area.
Whose Life Is It Anyway?, written by Brian 
Clark, will be performed October 29 and 30, 
November 5 and 6 at Penn Junior High on Duff 
Road, Perm Hills. Curtain is at 8 p.m.
Tickets will be on sale at The Bookshelf, Penn 
Hills Shopping Center. Tickets will be $3.00 if 
bought in advance at The Bookshelf or from any 
Penn Hills Players member. After October 28th, 
tickets will only be available at the Box Office the 
nights of the performances, at a cost of $4.00 for 
adults and $3.00 for Senior Citizens (over 65) and 
students.
The Christian Arts Company will present The 
Sowers by Gillette Elvgren, October 8 thru 
October 24, Eastminster Presbyterian Church, 
250 N. Highland, Penn Circle.
Curtain time is 8 p.m. on Friday, Saturday and 
Sunday with matinees on Sunday at 2 p.m. For 
reservations and group rates call 661-8855.
The Sowers will be premiered in Pittsburgh 
this fall'and tells the story of a small theatre 
group that performs the parables erf Christ.
AUDITION NOTICE: The Pittsburgh Reper
tory Theatre, a professional theatre company, is 
announcing auditions for their production of 
GODSPELL. The produdon will run the first 
three weekends in December, preceded by a 3*4 
week evening rehearsal schedule. The company 
seeks five men and five women between the ages 
of 18 and 30 who can sing and dance. To 
schedule an audition appointment, please send 
resume to: Dan Fallon, The Pittsburgh Reper
tory Theatre, P.O. Box 4566, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
15205.
Forbes Gallery Show: Eleven alumnis work by 
Hugh Kepets, Lynn Markovsky, George Morris, 
George Nama, James Nelson, Shalom Noiman, 
Philip Pearlstein, Teresa Rozewski, David 
Shirm, Andy Warhol. Hours Tues.-Sun. 11:00 
a.m.-6KK) p.m.
Forbes Gallery at CMU is exhibiting works by 11 
alumni of the University. The artists are: Hugh 
Kepets, Lynne Markovsky, George Morris, 
George Nama, James Nelson, Shalom Noiman, 
Philip Pearlstein, Richard Rappaport, Teresa 
Rozewski, David Schirm and Andy Warhol. 
Their styles cover the spectrum from realism to 
pure abstraction. The exhibit includes paintings, 
sculptures, prints, sen graphs and drawings. The 
works, assembled by student, Neil S. Winkel, 
have been garnered from the artists, private col
lections and the Michael Berger Gallery. 
Founded in 1969 by a student, Aladar Marberger, 
the Forbes Gallery is operated entirely by CMU 
students. It was recently expanded and under
went extensive renovation. The gallery hours are
11 a.m. to 6 p.m., Tuesday through Sunday 
through Oct. 10.
German Film Series. Wednesday, October 20  
For Sonnenaufgang (color, German, English 
subtitles). The farmers in a Silesian village sud
denly become rich when coal is found in the 
region. The young social democrat-politidan, 
Albert Loth, studies conditions in the village and 
meets an old friend from student days who has 
become rich but, along with his wife, has also 
become a drinker. Helene, their daughter return
ing from boarding school, finds this distressing 
situation and refuses to marry a man who is her 
mothers lover. She instead falls in love with Loth 
who is discouraged from marrying the offspring 
of a family of drinkers. He leaves without saying 
goodbye to Helene, who takes her own life. Pro
duced by Oswald Dopke; starring Ernst Jacobi, 
Gerd Bockmann, Ulrike Bliefert, Friedhelm 
Ptok.
Wednesday, November 10  Unordnung und 
Fruhes Leid (color, German, English subtitles). 
Based on a short story by Thomas Mann, the 
action plays during the inflation in 1923. It 
focuses on the family of Professor Cornelius, who 
seems unable to cope with the political and social 
upheavals of the times, and seeks escape in the 
past and his love to his 5-year-old daughter, Lorchen. The highlight is a party at the professors 
house during which Lorchen falls in love with a 
young student, who had merely asked her to 
dance out of compassion. Directed by Franz Seitz; 
starring Martin Held, Ruth Leuwerik, Sabine 
von Maydell, Frederic Meissner, Sophie Seitz.
All films will be shown at 7:00 p.m. in Gregg 
Hall (Porter Hall 100), Camegie-Mellon Univer
sity. Everybody welcome! They are free and open 
to the public.
by Mark Levine

---------------------------------------------------

COMPUTER-AIDED SYSTEMS GROUP
Applicon/IIB SI
Affirmative Action Employers M/F/V/H.
Few fields offer a technical 
graduate as much excitement as 
CAD/CAM. Computer-Aided 
Design and Manufacturing is 
reshaping entire businesses... 
cutting design time up to 
90%...automating manufactur
ing...and improving the bottom 
line of productivity.
When you consider which 
CAD/CAM leader to join, think 
MDSI and Applicon. Join one, 
and get the resources of both.
Thats possible because 
Schlumberger has assembled 
these two CAD/CAM 
specialists to comprise its 
new Computer-Aided Systems 
Group. Manufacturing Data 
Systems Incorporated (MDSI) 
brings the CAM expertise of a 
leader in Numerical Control 
of industrial machinery. 
Applicons strength is CAD, 
world recognized for its 
automated design and drafting 
systems.
Together, MDSI and Applicon 
make Schlumbergers 
Computer-Aided Systems 
Group one of the strongest 
CAD/CAM forces in the in
dustry. By joining one, you 
share the standard-setting
software, international acrossthe-board experience and 
systems sophistication of both. 
Applicon near Boston, MA and 
MDSI in Ann Arbor, MI let 
you choose between two of the 
most exciting cities for a 
young professional. Plus you 
can grow further with the 
challenges of the $5.9 billion 
international Schlumberger 
family of companies.
If youre working on a 
degree in Computer Science/ 
Engineering. Manufacturing/ 
Industrial Engineering, or 
Electrical/Mechanical 
Engineering, wed like to talk 
with you about opportunities 
in:
? Interactive Graphics
? Information Services
? Computer-Aided Design
? Computer-Aided 
Manufacturing
? Software Development 
Tools
Well be on campus Friday October 8, 1982
ll y/} are unable to join us on campus, please forward y our resume to the Director of ( oliere Recruiting, at the following addresses. 
MDSI: P.O. Box 986. 4251 Plymouth Road. Ann Arbor. MI 48106. Applicon: 32 Second Avenue. Burlington. MA 01803.
