Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 84, Number 22, April 10, 1984.
Mitterrand gives speech to world from CMU
y PAULINE WEN
rUm Contributing Editor
Describing computer research and devel)ment as the motor of our time, French 
resident Francois Mitterrand called upon 
,e young to carry on the momentum ot the
miputer age.
Mitterrand visited the CMU campus on 
uesday, March 27, to promote a joint effort 
tween CMU and the World On ter for 
rsonal Computing and Human Resource 
reduce computer illiteracy around the 
)rld. ihe On ter formed in January 1981 
haired by Jean Jacques Servan-Schreiber 
France, and is directed by CMU Robotics 
ofessor Raj Reddy.
Mitterrand, whose speech was translated 
to English through headphones distribed to the audience, cited the Marshall 
an, calling upon everyone to act in terms 
a new vision of nation-to-nation relationBips. He called attention to the unpreceInted growth that followed the original 
larshall Plan and stressed the need for a 
I w Marshall Plan through the use of com
puter technology.
He emphasized the importance of har
assing technological progress to prevent 
le danger of the dislocation of society, 
liich inevitably will be the result of the 
lienufk revolution.
1 Computers will enable each student and 
lull to concentrate on the ultimate goal 
B nation. He described the effects of compu| s as unlimited.
Mitterrand continued, To share informan is more important than financial assist
President of the Republic of France, Francois Mitterrand.
ance. We must give back die taste of life to so 
many men who have lost it in the world, by 
devodng ones own lifespan to this project. 
At the end of his speech, Mitterrand pre
sented Reddy with the Knighthood of the 
Legion of Honof, the highest French
decoradon.
In his acceptance speech, Reddy, a nauve 
of India, said that it is the hope of the World 
Onter to make the global electronic village 
possible by the end of the decade, as well as 
to help the poor and disadvantaged in the
areas of education, hygiene, and agriculture.
CMU President Richard Cyert presented 
Mitterrand with two computer photographs 
at the end of the presentadon. Mitterrand was 
then whisked off to attend a reception held 
in the Kresge Faculty Dining Room.
Approximately 600 people attended the 
presentadon, held in the packed Skibo ball
room. The event was attended by promi
nent Pittsburgh citizens, as well as media 
from, all over the world.
Hie day before Mitterrands visit, ServanSchreiber attempted to raise student interest 
in a short speech given on the Cut. He said, 
This revolution in computer science is a 
weapon which will do away with unem
ployment and misery, and called it our 
job to act upon it.
In an earlier arucle in the Pittsburgh 
Press, Servan-Schreiber said he foresaw a 
Newr France in Pittsburgh and called Mit
terrands visit a pilgrimage.
Mitterrands visit spurred on much cam
pus acdvity. One group of students who 
believe that computers will not solve world 
problems, painted the fence the night before 
the visit with the words, Technology is not 
the saviour of the world. Stop playing God. 
Theyre taking away our freedom of 
speech. It has always been the right of stu
dents to paint the Fence and only during the 
nighttime, they protested upon hearing of 
the administrations intention to paint over 
their words. The end result was the fence 
posts painted over in red, white, blue, and 
the words left intact.
pr
democratic hopefuls debate at Convention Center
MICHAEL J. PILEWSKI
Ijjjrtan Photography Editor 
Five days before the crucial Pennsylvania 
mary, the three major candidates for the 
Imocratic Presidential campaigned in 
Pittsburgh. Gary Hart, Jesse Jackson, and 
Walter Mondale shook hands, addressed folI vers, and toured the area before arriving at 
Convention Onter Thursday evening 
a nationally-televised debate sponsored 
the league of Women Voters.
Moderator Elizabeth Drew' questioned the 
Ijididates on such subjects as middle-class 
Bation, methods for improving our pres
by
ent system of government, and future policy 
toward the Philippines.
Jackson and Mondale promised that, if 
elected, they would tax corporadons differ
ently. Hart called for a readjustment of the 
tax structure, which wmdd employ tax 
indexing for three to four years.
In order to improve the American system 
of government, Mondale said, it must be 
honest. Every day another rotten apple falls 
out of Washington. To enforce this policy, 
he would appoint smart, tough people 
whom he could fire if they did not live up to 
his level of efficiency. I will be in charge,
Pile photo
years Time Machine: Its better the second time around Spring Carnival kicks off 
V* See pages 5, 13 and 14 for previews.
he affirmed.
The President does not have the author
ity to fire those who work under him, Jack
son countered. Instead, he explained, it is 
the Presidents duty to energize Congress 
through aggressive political leadership.
Hart insisted that contractors, especially 
those employed by the Department of 
Defense, who overrun their contracts should 
be prosecuted. The Jusdce and Defense 
Departments can save America hundreds of 
millions of dollars, he declared.
On the subject of American policy toward 
the Philippines, all three candidates con
curred that tolerauon of human rights violadons there cannot conunue. Mondale 
recalled his confrontadon with Filipino 
President Ferdinand Marcos during the Car
ter administra don, and added that he had 
pleaded for the release of the late Benigno 
Aquino.
Hart and Jackson reiterated Mondales 
attitude, Hart adding that Marcos will not 
expel the U.S. if a tougher stand is takcri. 
Jackson carried the issue further, declaring 
that we should be on the right side of his
tory by not allowing human rights to be 
negotiated away through our support of the 
Marcos regime.
Hart and Mondale used the steel-town 
setting to voice their proposals for this coun
trys ailing steel industry. Both agreed that 
the continued production of steel, automo
biles, and machine tools is vital to the eco
nomic survival of this country .
Mondale recalled his parucipation in the 
Federal bailout of Chrysler Corporadon, 
through which he helped save 600,000
jobs, and proposed that under him, with 
labor, management, and government work
ing together, he could do for the steel 
industry what we did for Chrysler.
Hart promised to put the American steel 
industry directly into the hands of the Oval 
Office, giving management the capital. He 
decried mergers as a blatant waste of mil
lions of dollars.
Jackson spoke on more urban themes. 
Democracy must work at the lowest lev
els, he said, stressing a need to solve the 
problems of the poor and unemployed. The 
children of America do not deserve to grow 
up in poverty, he emphasized. When asked 
about improving the quality of education in 
the U.S., Jackson said that educauon is a 
continued on page 2
In this issue
News
Senate election results........................page 2
Senators acquitted..................................page 3
Features
Passover ..................................................P^ge 5
Ornamentation..................................page 5
Entertainment
Campus theaters last big push ... page 9 
Culture Club concert...........................page 9
Sports
Buggy preview...........................pages 13, 14
National League preview...............page 19
Editorial
Administration move smart..........page 24

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanApril 10, 1984
Revitalizing France is Mitterrand's goal
By RIC MEDROW
Tartan Editor in Chief
The definition of Western European 
Socialism is either undergoing radical 
change or French President Francois Mitter
rand is only pretending to be a Socialist.
When he came to power in 
1981, Mitterrand nationalized 
several industries, including 
banking. Past those initial steps, 
lowever, few of Mitterrands actions are con
sistent with the doctrine of his Socialist 
Party.
The name of his economic program, aus
terity, sounds new and revolutionary, but in 
practice it is familiar. The name austerity 
means harsh, severe and stem; according to 
Websters like an old man living on berries 
and roots. It sounds, in fact, very similar to 
a conservative fiscal policy.
The bottom line of the Mitterrand govern
ment is to revitalize France following the 
West German example through trimming 
government, being firm abroad, and, above 
all, modernizing existing industries and 
introducing new, high-technology 
industries.
Whether it will work or not remains to be 
seen. Mitterrands policies have not been 
popular at home. In fact, Mitterrand cur
rently is the most unpopular French presi
dent since de Gaulle became the first Fifth 
Republic president of France shortly after 
World War II. Mitterrands term is not over 
until 1988, but he faces the prospect of being 
the first Fifth Republic president to have an
opposition cabinet when France holds elec
tions in 1986. What is certain is that Mitter
rand is committed to his brand of austere 
socialism.
On foreign policy France has been firmer 
since 1981, and even more militarist, than 
any other Western nation, except possibly 
the United States, since World War II. 
France actively supported Chad when 
Libyas Colonel Khadafy attacked Chad. 
France was also the last of the peacekeep
ing forces to pull out of Lebanon and 
would still be there if France had not been 
left alone.
On the economic front, Mitterrand took a 
leading role in forging a compromise that 
launched the European Common Market in 
a more conservative direction. Margaret 
Thatchers conservative government in Bri
tain has been insisting that the Common 
Market cut back government subsidies to 
agriculture and industry that cause produc
ers to generate products in tremendous sur
plus. In addition, Thatcher demanded a 
rebate of $1.5 billion dollars out of the $1.75 
billion that Britain loses every year to the 
Common Market (Britain is the only country of the 10 member-nations losing money 
to the Market other than West Germany 
which pays in $2 billion more than she takes 
out). This year Thatcher threatened to bank
rupt the Common Market if action was not 
taken. Meanwhile, Ireland was demanding 
more money for its dairy indusry, and West 
Germany said if Great Britain got a substan
tial rebate, Germany wanted a rebate as well.
According to the New York Times, Mitter
rand poured more time, energy and politi
cal will into the Common Market'than any 
other French politician in decades. Even 
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher had 
praised his efforts,
All this effort finally resulted in a com
promise that may save the Common 
Market, an economically united Europe 
that the United States has supported since its 
inception 27 years ago.
Unfortunately for Mitterrand, it also 
resulted in his having to cut 25,000 jobs from 
the ailing, nationalized French steel indus
try. Naturally, such a measure has resulted 
in fierce opposition from French workers 
and the populace in general, especially from 
their Socialist President.
The action sparked the largest demons* 
tions in France since the 1968 neo-Gaullj] 
marches. In addition, French farmers ha] 
staged similar, smaller protests, block 
streets and paralyzing traffic flow.
Enter CMU and the Silicon Vail 
According to John Vinocur, a French 
lyst, French Socialists have adopted mo 
nization and high-technology as doct] 
The yearning is now at the level of offiri 
ideology. To explain or justify its poliq5 
radically cutting back the work force in t 
areas of steel, shipbuilding, or coal mining! 
said Vinocur, the Socialist government! 
pounded at the idea that France has I 
behind the pack, essentially the Unite 
States and Japan.
Strangely, CMU got only a single lineij 
the New York Times, and the rest of t 
American press ignored the event outsided 
Pittsburgh. However, Mitterrands actio 
have been consistent. If Mitterrands austt 
Socialism holds true to form, big things v 
come of the World Center and CMU withii 
President Cyert may be a good public red 
tions man, but, as usual, it looks like there j 
more to his plans than hype for the me
Jackson speaks on urban themes in debat
continued from page 1
community affair, not just a teaching 
affair. Teachers cannot teach children who 
spend five hours a night watching television 
instead of doing homework, he said, and the 
parents must exercise some responsibility 
for their childrens education.
24% vote; McCormick wins
By KEVIN FEDARKO
Tartan Staff writer
The results of the Student Senate elections 
are in. Bill McCormick is the new president.
John Pane was chosen by Senate to be the 
newhairman. As chairman, Pane is very 
optimistic about the coming semester and 
hopes his position will enable hims to work in 
improving the Student Senates relationship 
with the campus community. After being 
chairman erf the Rules Committee, I felt that 
this gave me enough experience so that I was 
able to move right into the Student Senate. I 
have some good people on other committees 
and with their help, Im looking for some real 
improvements.
In addition to voting for new officers, the 
Activities Fee Referendum was also voted on 
and passed by a 765-535 margin. Pending pas
sage by the Board of Trustees, a $30.00 activities 
fee will be charged next semester.
24% of the student body participated in the 
elections.
Election winners are as follows:
CIT (4 seats and 1 half-term)
Fran Fitzgerald28927.0%
Diane Weaver27225.2%
David Goldstein27025.2%
Steve Weller24222.5%
John Searing (term)13w/i
MCS (2 seats)
Michael Bett20657.0%
Jeffrey Soller15342.6%
H8cSS (2 seats and 1half-term)
Paula Petula17551.5%
Peter Cohen16548.5%
Stephen Volan (Hterm)21(w/i)
CFA (2 seats)
Scott Durbin9451%(w/i)
Jeffrey Duer9249.0%
AMS (1 seat)
Hilary DeBroff22
Jackson also denounced environmental 
pollution, comparing it to chemical war
fare. The Environmental Protection Agency 
must protect the environment, not the 
agency, he emphasized.
On the subject of defense, the three candi
dates are in unison. Hart and Mondale pro
posed a nuclear weapons freeze while 
Jackson advocated a weapons reduction. As 
Mondale put it, if one of those God-awful 
things goes off, its all over.
Hart stressed the need for immediate arms 
reduction talks, as he feels policies currently
followed might bring the world to thebri 
of a global war. This president frighti 
me to death, he solemnly declared.
Mondale criticized President Reagan I 
becoming detached from what is happen^ 
and promised to stay close to the peopl
Hart expressed his belief that the Presid 
must understand the changing times. Ja 
son stated that, as President, he will 
the youth of America- to rebuild this con 
try, and added that as a candidate for t 
Presidency he will share this ticket withj 
woman.
* (w/i)  write-in candidate
photo by Colin Raff
Gary Hart, Jesse Jackson and Walter Mondale battle for Pennsylvania today.
SBBDBBBBBBDBBBBBBBBfliaS-E-L-F S-E-R-V-I-C-E
FINE REPRODUCTIONSJC
(jlanna. ^icaphicb One
National Society of Black Engineers 
Lecture Series Lectures start at 7:30 p.m.' in the 
S.I.A. Masters Auditorium
Sunday April 8, Personal Finance/Investments 
Entreprenuership 
Tuesday April 10, Mentors, Moving up the corporate 
ladder 
Thursday April 12, Flexibility with an Engineering degree 
Trends in the job market
NSBECMU
3517 FORBES AVENUE . OAKLAND
683-1188 MON-FRI 9:00-5:30 SAT 10-2

---------------------------------------------------

avoulakis, Sabadelland Schmitt denounce Bett, Cor/ess in Senate
RIC MEDROW
m Editor in Chief
tudent Senate began a new term last 
with several veteran and retired 
ators exchanging heated words.
volley began when ex-Chairman 
xandra Kavoulakis and ex-Finance 
nnan Laura Sabadell made recommen
ds to Senate during General Discusas to who to vote into chair positions,
tan
StaffwrUer
jl charges were dismissed against four 
U student senators accused of selling 
,hol without a license.
Tie Liquor Control Board, which was 
nsible for bringing the charges against 
lents Nate Solano, Sondra Elson, AlexKavoulakis, and Dave Goldstein, 
med that liquor was sold at a CMU StuSente-sponsored party held earlier this 
lester.
though relieved about the outcome, the 
lents and Dean of Student Affairs Brad
ra
April 10, 1984The TartanPage 3
denouncing senators Peter Corless and Mike 
Bett. Ex-Vice Chairman Becky Sikora also 
made recommendations but avoided mentiening either Corless or Bett. All three 
agreed on John Pane as their choice for 
Chairman of Senate, who won the post by 
acclamation.
Four more positions were determined 
before heavy disagreement arose. Fran Fitz
gerald became Finance Chairman by acclagh. judge acquits accused senators
LAUREN WEISBERGWalter felt the whole situation should never 
have occurred. Walter said it was an unfor
tunate waste of time and money.
Agreed Senator Elson, we never should 
have had to worry.
Another result of the incident was that 
those who knew the facts first hand shared a 
distaste for the press coverage it received. 
Walter called the publicity totally exagger
ated, stating that the whole thing was 
blown out of perspective.
Kavoulakis said that the experience 
taught her an important lesson: dont trust 
everything you read in the papers.
mation, as did Cindy Taylor in Academic 
Affairs and Eric Rocher in Rules. Hilary 
deBroff beat out Joel Fechter for the ViceChairmanship.
Then came the debate over General Cam
pus and Information (GC&I). During Gen
eral Discussion Kavoulakis said, The only 
thing Pete (Corless) has been interested in is 
to disband GC&I. Corless and Bett give me 
the impression of losers, and all the resolu
tion is is politicking. [The resolution 
referred to involved the Chairman recogniz
ing audience members throughout Senate 
meetings. The resolution, introduced by 
Bett, later passed in a hand-count vote.]
Sabadell added, I dont think Mike Bett 
is qualified for any chair position.
When it came time to debate the vote for 
GC&I between Bett and Lisa Bruno, ex
chairman of GC&I, Pat Schmitt added his 
own assault. Its the same old story: Pete 
and Mike cant do anything. If Lisa Bruno 
hadnt come to me and told me she was 
running, Id be running right now. Bruno 
won with 15 votes to Betts 5.
As to why the charges were made, Schmitt
said We know what to expect from them.
But Corless calls the whole debate a per
sonal vendetta, noting that he was not even 
running for any position at the time. He 
says the attack was launched because they 
wanted to get their dibs in before they left. 
All three senators who opposed Bett and 
Corless are now seniors.
The conflict may date back to a year ago 
when Corless ran as an incumbent to the 
GC&I chairmanship and lost to Schmitt.
Despite their differences, Schmitt, Bett 
and Corless were all quick to point out such 
disarray seldom befalls Senate.
Freshman Senator Steve Volan revealed 
the shock that several senators expressed, 
saying, Ive only been here for an hour, and 
already Ive seen a lot of pettiness. We dont 
need that, and I wish [senators] would refrain 
from it.
Student Government President Bill 
McCormick was even stronger in his lan
guage, exerting his leadership. If youre 
here as a joke, Im going to make life as 
miserable as possible for you. I think Senate 
can accomplish a lot next year, but only 
with cooperation. ________
The Most Sophisticated Training Ground 
For Nuclear Engineering 
Isnt On The Ground.
Its on a Navy ship.
The Navy has 
more than 1,900 
reactor-years of nuclear 
power experience  
more than anyone else 
in America. The Navy 
has the most sophisti
cated nuclear equip
ment in the world. And
get them fast. Because 
in the Navy, as your 
knowledge grows, so do 
your responsibilities.
Todays Nuclear 
Navy is one of the most 
challenging and reward
ing career choices a 
man can make. And 
that choice can pay off
the Navy operates over half of the nuclear while youre still in school. Qualified
reactors in America
With a nuclear program like that, you 
know the Navy also offers the most compre
hensive and sophisticated nuclear training.
Every officer in the Nuclear Navy 
completes a full year of graduate level 
technical training. Outside the Navy, this 
kind of program would cost you thousands. 
In the Navy, youre paid while you learn.
Then, as a nuclear-trained officer, you 
supervise highly trained personnel in the 
operation of the most r _ _
advanced nuclear 
propulsion plants 
ever developed. You 
get a level of technical 
and management 
experience unequalled 
anywhere else.
You get important 
responsibilities and you
NAVYOPPORTUNITY 
INFORMATION CENTER 
P.O. Box 5000. Clifton. NJ 07015
? Please send me more information about 
becoming an officer in the Nuclear Navy.
Name.
gh.hju
Age-----------
Year in College. 
A.\laior/Minor_
+College/lniverSity 
____________GPA
juniors and seniors earn approximately 
$1,000 per month while they finish school.
As a nuclear-trained officer, after 4 
years with regular promotions and pay 
increases, you can be earning as much as 
$40,500. Thats on top of a full benefits pack
age that includes medical and dental care, 
and 30 days vacation earned each year.
As a nuclear-trained officer, you also 
earn a place among this nations most 
qualified and respected professionals. So,
______ if youre majoring in
math, engineering or 
the physical sciences, 
send in the coupon. 
Find out more about 
the most sophisti
cated training ground 
for nuclear engineer
ing. Todays Nuclear 
Navy.
W 345
I0N)
t Please Print
dddddddeahu
.Zip.
Phone-------------------------------------------------------------p-p-I Are Cod11 Best Time to CallThis is for general recruitment information You do not ha' e to msh nv of the information retjuested Of course thi more know the more we can help to determine the kinds of Nav y [i tions for which you qualify
fut
Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast,

---------------------------------------------------

1-800-555-8111Lall this toll-free number 24 hours a day.
Make a good buy before you say goodbye.
Buying your leased phone now saves you time and money next term.
Pittsburgh 
126 S. Highland Avenue
This year, dont leave for home 
without your phone. Buy it before sum
mer and save yourself some time and 
money. Buying your AT&T leased 
phone now means youll have your 
phone with you the very first day back 
to class.
To buy the phone youre leasing, 
just call AT&T Consumer Sales & 
Services toll-free number. Or visit
any of our AT&T owned and operated 
Phone Centers. Its that easy. So call us 
before you say goodbye. Then unplug 
your phone and take it with you. And 
have a nice summer.

---------------------------------------------------

 ________ Features.
gssover preparations
lining Services take steps to correct their past oversights on Jewish holiday
NEAL W. JOHNSTON
Features Editor
Very year in spring, two religious holivS are celebrated  Passover and Easter, 
ually though, neither are greeted with an 
er.abundance of publicity around this 
ipus. And usually, neither are treated 
Icordingly in the area of food  what 
3uld be served in the dining facilities, or 
I much, or of what type, etc. Well, that 
3Uld be in the past tense since UDS has 
cen steps this year to correct previous overhts, especially concerning Passover.
This Jewish feast, which begins at sunwn on April 16 with the Seder meal, lasts 
a consecutive eight days. Last year,i
s Roger Heydt, the Dining Serv ice manr in charge of preparations this year, 
ere was no real gesture. It was brought to 
attention by several Jewish students
io talked to the Director. The concerned 
dents were asked to return one month 
ore Passover to be part of an ad-hoc comttee and plan for the celebration. 
Although several of them agreed to be 
it of this committee, no one has taken 
vantage of the offer. However, Dining 
vice wasnt about to let the subject be 
gotten. They did their homework on the 
jject; they found out what meats could be 
en, what types of food can be served, and 
restrictions thereof.[
lere at CMU, UDS wont be following 
strict Jewish Orthodox method of prepa
ration and cleansing, but the food wont fall 
into the forbidden category. Steps have been 
taken to see that at least one entree at Morewood, Kiltie, and the Faculty Dining Room 
is offered at meals. There will be some
thing on the menu every day that's accepta
ble. No one should be penalized for their 
beliefs, states Heydt.
As for those students who wish to follow 
the stricter ways, Hillel at the Jewish Com
munity Center is providing' lunches and 
dinners prepared in the Orthodox tradition. 
Lunch will run from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. 
and dinner from 5:00 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. 
($2.65 and $4.75 respectively.)
Passover, called the Season of our Free
dom, begins with the Seder meal on April 16 
and 17 which will also be sponsored by Hil
lel (Price is $6.25). For reservations or ques
tions, call 621-8875.
For those wishing to follow this manner 
and eat elsewhere, Dining Service will 
refund the food cost value of your meal con
tract for the eight-day holiday. Subse
quently, the contract will be void at dining 
facilities during this period. Interested stu
dents should stop at Skibo 27 before 7 p.m. 
on April 13 to arrange for the refund.
As an added note, the Registrar has also 
noticed Passover. Fall registration, slated to 
begin on April 17, the first full day of Pas
sover, has been moved back to April 25. 
Following up on Heydts remark, no stu
dent should be penalized for his/her beliefs.
photo by Mike Pilewski
During Passover, UDS will offer matzah, one of the holidays traditional foods.
So UDS has not only seen the oversight this year with the food. Hopefully, theprobbut has also taken steps to correct it. Jewish lem has been adequately resolved. UDS 
students on campus should have no trouble wishes all involved a happy Passover.
IUSouthampton to place students in summer resort
rhe riches and the richness of Southampi, N.Y. in summer this year are going to 
put to work for the benefit of students, 
ats the aim of Long Island Universitys 
n for its Southampton Campus in the 
nmer ahead.
We may be the first summer session in
America to establish a job referral service for 
visiting students, says Alice Flynn, head of 
summer admissions at LIU-Southampton.
What she is referring to is the wealth of 
summer jobs that open up in this expensive 
resort community. Students who enroll, in 
one or both of LIU-Southamptons two
five-week summer terms, will have the 
benefit of the colleges referral service.
The jobs are here, she explains, and 
theres absolutely no reason that our visiting 
students shouldnt get them.
Specifically, shes referring to the 
hundreds of job listings for waiters and waihnament is no crime says architect Stern
SUSAN MELLING 
w StaffwrUer
t am both modem and traditional, said 
-modem architect Robert A. M. Stem 
le speaking last Tuesday. Co-sponsored 
the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts and 
Us departments of Architecture and 
ign, the thrust of Stems speech was an 
oration on the idea that ornament is a crime.
fter a wonderful introduction by AssistProfessor of Architecture Richard Cleary 
his magical movie screens, Stem began 
1 a look at the vernacular architecture of 
Past, the Classical Tradition. It has nrnar, syntax and rules, said Stern, 
i carries with it both a proportioning
and valuing system, something which mod
em architecture doesnt. Nevertheless, 
Stem sees Post-modernism as reopening 
the window of this true architecture.
It was at the end of WWI that the Euro
peans sought to overthrow the classical tra
dition. With this came the era of the tall 
building or more accurately, the skyscraper. 
Stem cited examples of some early works of 
Meis Van der Rohe and I.M. Pei. This is 
not architecture in the conventional sense, 
said Stem, it is an extrusion, merely a con
cept. Looking specifically at Peis glass 
building in Boston, Stem referred to it as 
the manifestation of what was wrong with 
architecture. It is a gigantic ornament with 
the top and bottom undifferentiated; not an
effective backdrop for human action, as 
Classicism was, but rather a mirror not able 
to participate in the surrounding action.
We need to begin where architecture is, 
in the west-Rome and in the works of 16th 
Century architect Andrea Palladio. He 
pointed to architect Frank Lloyd Wright as 
doing just that. Wright used technology 
and ornament together to create both mod
em and classical buildings, comments 
Stem.continued on page 6
tresses, van drivers, boatmen, beach workers, 
bartenders, mothers helpers, and a long list 
of other seasonal jobs.
Weve arranged the summer schedule to 
make this possible for visiting students, 
Flynn continues. Most of our classes are 
scheduled for the morning hours. So, stu
dents will have free time in the afternoon 
and evenings for jobs, as well as homework 
assignments. Classes will be held only Mon
days through Thursdays, so students can 
hold down weekend jobs when the big 
crowds come out here.
Flynn feels that willing students will be 
able to earn $2,000 or more during the 
Hamptons season.
The tips around here are really very, very 
high, she notes. This area in July and 
August is like Brigadoon!
The LIU-Southampton Summer Session 
plan neatly dovetails the communitys concontinued on page 6
NSBE sponsors lecture series
'pring Carnival 1984 gears up
(PAULINE WEN
Contributing Editor
hs better the secondtime around
fms Spring Carnival Committee, as 
Preparations for Spring Carnival 1984 
1(1 down to a close. Time Machine is 
theme of this years Carnival, 
pening ceremonies will feature a break[cm8 exhibition on the Midway, ThursApril 12 at 5:00 p.m. and a skydivingPw.
& Concerts will present The Outlaws on 
Cut on Friday, April 13, free of charge. 
x Cole will open for The Outlaws at 5:00 
I he concert will be held in the gym if
re is rain. *liDC' wiN sponsor a dance on Saturday,I'il 14with DJ Tom Auclair, starting at
I P-m. in the SDC l ent.
I U( rnties, sororities, and other organizations will start assembling the Midway 
tonight. Noticeably absent this year will be 
Zeta Beta Tau, who will not be allowed to 
participate in buggy or booth due to disci
plinary action at the beginning of the year.
Spring Carnival is an annual, universitywide event for which students are given Fri
day classes off and the chance to relax and 
forget about upcoming finals. Buggy races 
and the booth competition are the two big
gest events. Buggy freerolls and push prac
tice started before Spring Break and will 
culminate on Saturday morning, the final 
day of competition. The boothes, set up on 
the Midway, will be judged by five persons 
selected by Midway Chairman Cliff Schoch.
Also included in Spring Carnival are 
rides, fireworks, and other events.
Chairman of Spring Carnival Committee 
is Jon Krueger.
By MICHELLE NEVILLE
Special to The Tartan
College students today realize that choos
ing a career involves more than initially 
choosing a major and later choosing a com
pany for which to work. Students want to 
know how to manage their incomes when 
they start working, how to advance in a 
corporation, and how to move into careers 
not direcdy related to their majors.
To answer questions such as these the 
CMU chapter of the National Society of 
Black Engineers (NSBE) is sponsoring a lec
ture series entitled Strategic Planning and 
Career Opportunities for the Future. The 
lectures are April 8th, 10th, and 12th and 
begin at 7:30 p.m. each evening in the GSIA 
Masters Auditorium.
A different topic will be discussed each 
evening, and each topic will address two 
main areas. The first evenings topic is Fi
nancial Planning, and speakers will discuss 
Personal Finance/Investments and 
En trepreneursh i p.
The topic for the second evening is Career 
Planning. Speakers will discuss Mentors/ 
Moving up the Corporate Ladder and 
Black Life in Corporate America.
The topic for the third evening is Aca
demic Planning. Speakers will discuss Flexi
bility With an Engineering Degree and 
Trends in the Job Market.
In the past, NSBEs lecture series focused 
on job opportunities in engineering. How
ever, engineering students are now asking 
for more information about managerial and 
entrepreneurial opportunities.
According to Russell Crockett, chairman 
of NSBEs Programming Committee, this 
years series is a response to student requests 
for this information. When asked why the 
committee chose the Strategic Planning 
theme Crocket explained, Career planning 
differs from corporate strategic planning, 
but we want to stress that students should 
explore their career options in a systematic 
way and choose an appropriate career path 
instead of stumbling along and one day 
finding themselves in a dead-end career.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanApril 10, 1984
A/ESEC students work abroad this coming summe
Five students from Camegie-Mellon Uni
versity will be working abroad this coming 
summer. The students are members of AIESEC, the International Association of Stu
dents in Economics and Business 
Management. The association is devoted to 
the development of future managers and 
promotion of international awareness.
AIESEC raises jobs in 58 countries 
around the world. Jobs raised in Pittsburgh 
this past year are with IBM, Westinghouse, 
Equibank, CMU, and Kidder Peabody. Stu
dents are matched with jobs according to 
their field of studies and experience.
This years Executive Vice-President of 
Finance, Ted Dawson, will spend a summer 
at Osaka, Japan. He will be studying the 
operations of a Japanese manufacturing 
firm. Joe Guarino, current Vice-President of 
Human Resources will have a similar traineeship with a beverage firm in Osaka,
Japan.
Jobs raised by AIESEC are also located in 
European countries. Susan Flickinger, past 
president of AIESEC, was matched with an 
international bank in Hamburg, Germany. 
She will be assisting customers in securities 
analysis. Beth Dougherty, former VicePresident of Reception, will be in Phessaloniki, Greece. She will be working in a 
commercial bank doing cost accounting 
work. Tim Liu, the Current President of 
AIESEC, will be doing accounting work 
and programming computers in Bristol, 
Great Britain.
These students were among 4000 other 
students from around the world who were 
matched during AIESECs 36th Interna
tional Congress in Avignon, France. This 
year, AIESEC-CMU was fortunate to be able 
to send Tim Liu to France during the last 
week of February'. He assisted the twelve 
delegates from the United States who
handled 300 U.S. student/company firms.
Tim also gave a presentation to AIESECs 
upcoming World Theme Conference, in 
Pittsburgh. The Information Technology 
Conference, to be held at the William Penn 
Hotel from May 21-23, features speakers like
Jean-Jacques Servan-Schreiber, author 
World Challenge; William McGow 
Chairman and CEO of MCI Comm 
tions; and Alvin Toffler, author of Fw 
Shock and The Third Wave. More inform 
tion will be available soon.
LIU classes add benefits
continued from page 5
siderable assets with the needs of students 
who must earn college credits, as well as 
money over the summer.
Students who enroll for summer classes at 
LIU-Southampton will also be able to take 
advantage of what undoubtedly will turn 
out to be the lowest-cost housing in the 
Hamptons this summer. LIU - 
Southampton has posted a special room rate 
schedule for students who enroll for both 
summer terms. Theyll get a place in a dou
ble room for $25 per week.
1984 EE candidates (BS, MS, PhD)
Youre only weeks away from 
receiving the reward for your 
efforts. Theres still time to...
Learn What's 
Happening at Harris
Harris Corporation is a $1.8 billion Fortune 200 with a worldwide reputation for 
superior communication and information systems.
The RF Communications Group of Harris is the technology leader in the 
design, manufacture and installation of sophisticated HF and VHF/UHF radio 
communication systems. Rapid expansion and several new product devel
opments have created additional opportunities for EE graduates to join this 
long established, yet high-growth organization at our Rochester, New York 
facilities.
Before you decide where to begin your career, we strongly believe that you owe 
it to yourself to learn about our openings and the benefits of both a Harris 
career and the Rochester area. Youll find the living hard to beatwith free
dom from urban pressures and pollution, plentiful housing at reasonable 
rates, leading colleges and universities, year-round recreational and cultural 
attactions, excellent restaurants. Youll soon discover why Rochester was 
ranked #1 in quality of life in a recent survey.
ACT NOW! Send your resume or complete this mini-resume and forward to 
Ann Francis, Dept. 650, Harris RF Communications Group, 1680 University 
Avenue, Rochester, NY 14610. An Equal Opportunity Employer m/f/h/v
NAME.
ADDRESS,
SCHOOL.GRADE PT. AVERAGE.
PHONE CONTACT ( ).
BEST HRS./DAYS TO CALL YOU. 
DEGREE LEVEI______________
COURSE SPECIALIZATION.
LIST ANY RELATED WORK EXPERIENCE.
INDICATE ANY OTHER HARRIS DIVISION WITH WHICH YOU MAY HAVE INTERVIEWED
We will respond to you within one week after receipt.
HARRIS
FITS HAPPENING IN ELECTRONICS, 
ITS HAPPENING AT HARRIS.
U
Were doing it because we know visitj 
students and their parents are concei 
about the high cost of living in this 
munity during the summer season and 
want to eliminate that problem for thi 
explains Flynn.
The academic program at 
Southampton will offer more than 
undergraduate courses in the arts, busin 
humanities and social sciences, the natu 
sciences, English and communications, 
education. The summer sessions begin 
18 and July 23.
For further information contact 
Summer Session Office, Long 
University-Southampton Campus, 
thampton, N.Y. 11968; (516)283-4000.
Isla
Stern speaks 
work revived
continued from page 5
There is a language, said Stern, 
my job is to speak that language. It 
Stern's w'ork that we see this language 
classicism being revived. From his toi 
houses to his shingle-style cottages to 
most recent works: La Jolla, CalifomiaP 
ject and the office building in Massac 
setts, we see his use of ornament, provid 
definite differentiation between topandl 
tom. It is not the space that is imports 
says Stem, But the wall that defines 
space, the ornamentation and decoratii 
provides.
Robert Stem sees ornament not as act 
but rather a way to connect the new and 
old, a way to enter into a dialogue."
Thanks^ 
forgiving Y
v. >-
United Way
Pregnant? Call ATALets talk about your opto
Caring and confidential informatio! 
counseling, pregnancy testing ^ 
related services.
Hotfine: (412)731-2420Pittsburgh 731-2420Washington, PA 225-6494 
Alternatives to Abortion, hoc
a non-profit
SUMMER JOB
Cape Cod, Martha's Vineyard, and 
Nantucket have thousands of good 
paying jobs available to students 
and teachers this summer.
A Directory listing these jobs by 
employer also has housing info 
aod job application forms.
For an immediate copy of the 
1984 Directory, send S3.00 
(includes 1st Class Postage and 
handling) to:
CAPE COO SUMMER JOB BUREAU 
Box 594, Room #11 
Barnstable. MA 02630

---------------------------------------------------

Off Campus Housing
Advisory/Referral Service 
Now being provided out of the Housing 
Office in Morewood Gardens. 
Lisa Protas, Off Campus Housing 
Coordinator
Students interested in discussing their housing 
needs or their desire to move off campus are 
invited to speak with Lisa Protas at their 
convenience. Up-to-date and accurate infor
mation and listings are available upon 
request. Other advice and support service is 
offered to students having apartments who 
need roommates and to students who wish to 
share space in other apartments.
/XWT MW
OUT OA/ SPR/N& CARN/VAUf
SKYDIVING- RAFFLE
T/CKETS OA/ SALE /A/
GRAY MATTE# -rt/S&AV 
T//AOU6// T/SOAS&AY;
/O;30 - -30. S'O * democ
P/cA Yoi/a rUmConti >3- 2/6/r A/UM0B7<i AA/C 
BE O/V THE /M F/EL 
r/ZC/XSOAV) APR/L /X 
<d r-o se tM'
SKYO'VERS JLAA/ oV 
THE W/MA//A/G A/UM3ER
Phillip M. Sarrel, MD.
Associate Professor of Obstetrics, 
Gynecology, and Psychiatry at 
Yale University School of Medicine
will lecture on:
Sexual Unfolding
Wed., April 11, 1984 4:00 p.m.-5:30 p.m. 
Wherrett Room, Skibo 
For more information, call x2075
Sponsored by Division of Student Affairs 
and Lutheran University Center

---------------------------------------------------

The CMU Computer Store will begin operation at 1QOO on Friday, April 13,1984. 
The CMU Computer Store offers ...
 25% - 50% discounts on personal computing products.
 Repair and preventative maintenance on personal computing equipment and terminals.
 Service contracts on terminals and personal computing equipment.
 Short-term rental of personal computing equipment.
cqitjsn
IBM Personal Computer package....................................................$2900.00
Includes 192k memory, two double-sided disk drives, mono display and display adapter, serial communications adapter, box of diskettes, DOS 2, MINCE, Scribble, Micro-Spell, KERMIT, and a one-year CMU service contract.
With Epson FX-80 printer, cable, and service contract .......................$3550.00
IBM Personal Computer XT package.............................................$4775.00
Includes 256k memory, one double-sided disk'drive, 10 MB fixed disk drive, mono display and display adapter, serial communications adapter, box of diskettes, DOS 2, MINCE, Scribble, Micro-Spell, KERMIT, and a one-year CMU service contract.
With Epson FX-80 printer, cable, and service contract .......................$5425.00
Apple Macintosh package................................................................$1252.00
Includes the Apple Macintosh personal computer, one box of diskettes, MacWrite/MacPaint software, and a one-year CMU/Apple service contract.
With Apple Imagewriter printer, cable, and service contract ............$1717.00
Service Prices Rental Program
IBM PC service contract............................$250.00 IBM Personal Computer, as above, $50.00IBM XT service contract............................$400.00 plus $15.00 per day.Apple Macintosh service contract............$60.00Epson printer service contract ...........$100.00 IBM Personal Computer XT, as above, $75.00Apple Imagewriter service contract ...$35.00 plus $30.00 per day.Zenith 2-19 service contract .............. $75.00
Apple Macintosh, as above, $35.00 plus $10.00 per day.IBM/Tandon DS Disk Drive Alignment ....$50.00 IBM/Tandon SS Disk Drive Alignment ....$35.00
(All service contracts are "carry in". For Epson or Apple Printer, as above, $35.00 plus"on site" prices, add $150 to the price shown.) $10.00 per day.
Other Products and Special Orders
Many other products are available in the CMU Computer Store; even more are available through special order. Apple Lisas, NEC printers, modems, and a wide variety of software and supplies are kept in stock. Many personal computing products, including the Apple He and the IBM PCjr, may be special-ordered. The Computer Store will carry selected new products -- sudh as the IBM 
Portable Computer -- as they become available.
Delivery and Ordering Information:
Although the CMU Computer Store makes every effort to make equipment available as soon as possible it cannot control the delivery of equipment from the factories. Ordering early is strongly"encouraged, to insure that the equipment will be available when needed.
IBM systems should be ordered 10 days in advance. Apple Macintosh systems should be ordered 
during April for July - September delivery.
CMU students and employees are encouraged to visit the Computer Store to place an order personal computing equipment. Assistance is available in determining the best configuration for qiven requirements, and various options may be discussed and demonstrated by ChU Computer Stor
staff.
The Not-So-Fine Print:
F INE RPO RDUCTSEc oSDcE nt iuineideE Dfer SD cEmTeic tSTpEfSt ifp EUCeDrEEt Da RicfEmnEgcSEeeDf OfnuEctnSr5 ifp CcDpTvSt icE tDep SD nfpnunpTiet Dfer aDc SNE CEctDfie EpTviSnDfie ifpsDc cEtEicvN TtEt Da EenmndeE CTcvNitEcty WSNEc cEtScnvSnDft iCCer5 ifp icE EBCeinfEp iS SnUE Da CTcvNitEy
F bEfSie E-TnCUEfS nt iuineideE Dfer SD RPO pECicSUEfSt ifp vDeeEmEt ifp nt tTd7EvS SD E-TnCUEfS iuineidnenSry
The CMU Computer Store is open lOtOO am - 4j00 pm, Monday throuc^i 
Friday, and is located in the basement of the University Computing Center.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
heater on campususicals and new plays herald spring 
roadway director stages "Guys and Dolls
171^ word is out that Guys and Dolls is 
tacular, rivaling The Greeks, in its 
n way for precision and entertainment. A 
view will be forthcoming but since tickets 
, ^rce it would be wise to get them now.
show, directed and choreographed by imy Awards winning choreographer 
|lly Wilson, opened April 4 and plays 
[rough April 28 in the Kresge Theater, 
ris will be the last mainstage show by the 
ama and Music Departments this year.
I Wilson, who danced in Bells Are Ringwith Judy Holliday, Jamaica with 
ena Home and in the original London 
Induction of West Side Story, had equal
success when he turned to choreography 
and musical staging.
On Broadway, he choreographed and did 
the musical staging for Stop The World I 
Want To Get Off with Sammy Davis, Jr., 
Eubie and Bubbling Brown Sugar. He 
directed and choreographed the 1978 Broad
way revival of Guys and Dolls. Wilson 
has received an Emmy Award for the PBS 
special Blues and Gone. He also has 
received nominations for the Drama Desk 
Award, the Las Vegas Entertainment Award 
(twice), the Atlantic City Entertainer of the' 
Year Award and the Tony Award (three 
times).
Set in the forties, Guys and Dolls is 
based on a Damon Runyon story with 
music and lyrics by Frank Loesser and book 
by Jo Swerling and Abe Burrows. It involves 
the oldest established permanent floating 
crap game in New York. It pits gambling 
characters like Nicely-Nicely Johnson, 
Harry' the Horse, Nathan Detroit and Sky 
Masterson against the strait-laced folks at 
the Save-a-Soul Mission. Everyone wins, of 
course, in this epitome of the American 
musical.
The show' includes such perennial musi
cal favorites as A Bushel and a Peck, If I 
Were A Bell, and Luck Be a Lady.
The cast includes Burke Moses as Sky 
Masterson, Ann Kitteredge as Sarah Brown, 
James Nardini as Nathan Detroit and San
dra Bargman as Miss Adelaide. Also in the 
cast are: Tom Ryan, Natalie Carter, Marcus 
Lovett, James Shanta, Michael Hartson, 
Laura Patinkin, Robert Woronoff, Blair 
Underwood, Stanley Albers and Pat 
Dominguez.
Guys and Dolls will play at 8 p.m., 
Tuesday through Saturday with matinees at
2 on Saturdays. There will be no performan
ces April 13, 14, 17 and 21. For further infor
mation, contact the CMU box office at 
578-2407.
NS produces "Salem After Midnight
BOB AARHUS
to The Tartan 
\ Salem After Midnight, Scotch n Sodas 
knual original spring musical, is an enterlining albeit macabre and somewhat con|sed look at puritanical New England 
during the Salem Witch Trials.
The musicals overture sets 
the pace for the first act, the score 
written by Princeton freshman 
krl Lewis and junior Joe Hasper,
blues. The score is undoubtedly one of the 
best to come out of SNS in recent memory.
Salem, Sweet Salem is the casts open
ing number, describing the hypocritical 
nature of Salems religion-and-mysticism 
Puritan sect. The choreography also 
attempts to reflect this duality, but most of 
the time the chorus is crammed together, 
making their gestures and routines both res
tricted and pointless. Many of the dance 
movements throughout the musical seemed
predominantly refreshing rhythm and forced and lacked enthusiasm, detracting
from the clever lyrics penned by freshman 
Darren Bevill.
Initially, the play seems to focus on the 
towns leading charactersJudge Bently 
(convincingly played by senior Gregg 
Bossier, an SNS perennial), the preacher 
Faith (performed by a raspy-voiced but mot
ivated Matthew Bosco), and of course the 
witches: their leader Blunte played by Lisa 
Byrd-Smith. Blunte does a very good job 
putting out the next number Beware the 
Old Scrat. Once again, however, both theulture Club
oy George and gang romped it up at the Civic Arena
ADAM HANIN
'tan Entertainment Editor 
Very rarely do fans attend a concert more see than to hear. Seldom does a new act 
1 out the Civic Arena in a matter of days, 
irdly ever are audience members so spi
rited that they dance in the aisles 
during the intermission. Last 
Wednesday was most definitely 
out of the ordinary.
It was last Wednesday that Culture Club,
I by the androgynous Boy George, took 
ttsburgh by storm. Not only did the 
dience of 13,931 go to see the worlds most 
orite drag queen, but they also went to 
1 Culture Clubs inimitable pop-infected 
le. In that respect, no one was let down. 
The stage was all white, with an eyeped back wall, in the center of which was 
rcular rear-projection screen. Throught the show, before each song, a series of 
iying slide pictures appeared on the 
^n, much to the delight of the audience. The costuming was relatively simple. 
ree backup musicians (on keyboards, 
mpet, and sax) each wore matching 
eatsuits which enigmatically stated lone Wars on the chest and on the legs. 
mPy back-up vocalist Helen Terry wore 
ery baggy nightgown-like dress, which ded to enlarge her already robust shape, ummer Jon Moss was in a brightly Pored British Flag Shirt, and Guitarist 
I5' Hiy and bassist Mikey Craig were 
Pitted in matching white outfits.
^y Georges performance was impecca He is a performer who is able to maina strong rapport with his audience 
at the same time keep himself separ
an of this may be his unique appearlce; Messed in a baggy fluorescent orange 
JJUse and a black plaid skirt over sweatI ^ts> with a green bow in his flowing 
^n-brown hair, George made his gender
top condition on Wednesday; his voice was, 
for the most part, smooth and clear.
In fact, everything about the show was 
smooth and clear. Jon Mosss drums were 
precise, Mikey Craigs bass was perfect, 
Roy Hays guitar was flawless, and Helen 
Terrys backing vocals were absolutely 
superb.
The group put out a sound much better 
than that of their studio work which was 
quite a surprise. Songs such as Mister 
Man, Love Twist, and Its a Miracle 
had life and appeal lost in the studio. Vic
tims, despite Georges raspy vocals for this 
song alone, proved itself to be a remarkably 
haunting ballad which could well be 
another top-10 single.
Culture Club also performed their slew of 
hits from both of their tremendously success
ful albums. Time (Clock of the Heart) 
began with a ticking clock on the projection 
screen, which allowed the crowd instant 
knowledge of the upcoming song. Do You 
Really Want to Hurt Me? was greeted with 
great approval as George introduced it as 
something very familiar to you all. Miss
Me Blind included an involved solo by Roy 
Hay on guitar, as well as Hay and Craig 
sharing a platform on the side of the stage 
which brought the crowd to their feet. Ill 
Tumble 4 Ya featured Boy George pranc
ing about as only he can, and Karma 
Chameleon, which by far received the grea
test audience recognition, included brightly 
colored spotlights sweeping the audience.
Perhaps the best facet of the show was that 
there were no low points, something very 
rarely found these days. Culture Club was 
brought back for two encores which fea
tured George (now in a white-sequined 
smock) in a duet with the incomparable 
Helen Terry. The evening ended with 
Melting Pot, a new song which probably 
will soon be released. It had that typical 
Culture Club flavor, and yet there was some
thing strangely different about it. There is 
no doubt that youll soon hear it (maybe too 
much.)
All in all, the concert was excellent. Cul
ture Club showed why they are the hottest 
new group around; music, style, and a 
motley look that you just have to love.
Bn
Bite
Hov
Questionable.
I wever> it is not only look that gives 
I rge the following he has; his voice is also 
I Hue m its own way George was in
Culture Club, from left: Mikey Craig, Roy Hay, Boy George (ODowd), and Jon Moss.
dancing numbers and the tendency for the 
cast to talk to the backdrop rather than the 
audience offset the plays inertia.
The play finally gets moving with the 
introduction of Max the executioner. 
Darren Bevill (who wrote Salems book and 
lyrics) outstandingly plays a madman 
whose scheming is only surpassed by his 
lust for mutilation. He offers the town his 
services as a witch hunter in his song When 
Youre a Witch.
Halfway through the first act we are intro
duced to the plays main character (I told 
you it was confused). Senior Pete Angeline is 
a splendid Abner, an imbecilic grave digger 
shunned by the Salem community. He 
laments over his state in his Pity the Man in 
the Ditch. Abner is soon accosted by two 
opportunistic demons, played to showstealing brilliance by C. Scott Fellows and 
Mark Snyder. Precisely why these two dem
ons decided to interfere is still not quite 
clear, but the play is better for it.
The shows most potential number 
remained exacdy thatpotendal. Purely 
Puritan, a song about that might have 
continued on page 10New plays 
at Studio
By MARK LEVINE
Entertainment Editor
While Guys and Dolls is playing on 
mainstage, the Studio Theater will be the 
home for the Drama Departments Annual 
New Play Festival. This years festival con
tains four student-written and directed 
shows: Pops by Dennis Manuel, directed 
by Chuck Zito, opened yesterday; Irelands 
Shakespeare by Michael McGover, directed 
by Michelle Macau, also opened yesterday; 
Comedy in Exile by Tom Predhome, 
directed by Brian Kulick, starts today at 4:30; 
and Wriggle by Yussef El Guindi, 
directed by Jeanine Howe, opens tonight at 
8:00.
Each show' will have another perfor
mance: April 20 at 4:30 is Irelands Shakes
peare and at 8:00 is W'riggle; April 21 at 
2:00 is Pops and at 4:00 is Comedy in 
Exile. Predhome is a senior playwriting 
student; the other three writers are graduate 
students.
Each play was one of fifteen entered 
into the fesuval by playwriting, directing and 
acting students. The shows were narrowed 
down by straight readings and then semi
staged readings. The shows will be presented 
in three-quarter-stage format; i.e., the aud
ience will be 1 three sides of the acting area. 
The shows are free of chaise.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanApril 10, 1984
"Salem confusing but entertaining show
continued from page 9
complemented the lyrics and music. A prob
lem seemed to be the limited floorspace pro
vided by Christopher Grays set, which was 
both well planned and well painted, but 
could not accommodate for the size of cho
rus that eventually wound up on stage.
Simplicity Be tells us of Simplicity, 
Bentlys daughter, played enthusiastically 
by Michelle Pritchett. Simplicitys friend
ship with Abner and love for Max throw the
necessary twists in the plot that turn it 
toward its bittersweet ending.
The good pace that is set by the first act is 
regrettably lost in the second. The story line 
becomes muddied, and the shift of attention 
from the townspeople to Abner is uneven 
and disturbing. However, the acting is con
sistently good and entertaining throughout 
the second act, and first-time Director John 
Cantine seems to do his best with what 
could be described as a show suddenly with
out a purpose. The ending is not very satisf
ying and rather confusing, causing many 
members of the audience asking their dates 
just what had happened.
Weak ending notwithstanding, Salem
After Midnight is sull a very refresh! 
unusal, and entertaining play with enjo 
ble music, catchy lyrics, and fine u 
characters.
Dance and mime presented in combined show at Carlov
Janet Gillespie and Present Company 
and Dan Kamin, mime artist, will present a 
collaborative concert in Carlow Colleges 
Antonian Hall at 8 p.m. on Saturday, 
April 14. This will be the companys final 
mainstage performance, and two 
premiersone by Dan Kamin and one by 
Present Companys Mary Millerwill 
highlight the evenings fare of modem 
dance and mime.
Kamin, called a treat for theatregoers 
has earned international repute with his 
unique approach to mime. His premier 
piece for this concert, THE BLIND LEAD
ING THE BLIND, is a perfect example of 
his wry humor at work.
right, has danced and choreographed 
both coasts and studied with Martha Gti 
ham and Jose' Limon. Her premier pie,, 
#507; NO SIDE FALL, NO TEACUP 
duet juxtaposing the contrasting qual^ 
of movement.
Other pieces on the program inclu, 
FOX CHAPEL RAG and LINEA 
EQUATIONS, both by Present Compan 
another collaborative piece entitled T}] 
CONDUCTOR, and solo mime selectia 
by Dan Kamin.
There will be a reception for audienceai 
artists immediately following the prograi 
Ticket prices for $6 for general admissia 
$4 for students and senior citizens. Forma
Ms. Miller, a choregrapher in her own information, call 682-3179.A concert for peace
The Thompson Twins will bring their unique blend of musical styles to the Stanley 
Theatre on Friday, April 20 at 7:30 p.m.
Andre Previn has announced the pro
gram for the benefit concert, In Concert 
For Peace, scheduled May 1 at 8:00 p.m. in 
Heinz Hall. Previn says the program will 
include Brahms Symphony No. 4, Rach
maninoffs Piano Concerto No. 2, and 
Threnody for the Victims of Hiroshima by 
Penderecki.
The concert features Andre Previn, pian
ist Andre Watts, and members of the orches
tra. In Concert For Peace is open to all 
members of the community who wish to 
express their support for peace and their 
concern about nuclear arms. Funds raised
from the concert will go toward increasii 
public awareness of nuclear arms contn 
issues.
Sponsoring groups for the concert 
Pittsburgh include: Physicians for Sod 
Responsibility (PSR), the Lawyers Allian 
for Nuclear Arms Control, the Christii 
Associates of Southwestern Pennsylvani 
the National Council of Jewish Women, 
World Federaists and Peace Links.
Tickets, which include a tax deduct] 
may be purchased at the Heinz Hall R 
Office or through Ticket Charge at 
2900.
TECH 
FLYING 
CLUB
OX 260 CAKNCOI -MBAON UNIV. PfTTMUIOM. 9k. 19213
The Tech Flying Club is eagerly 
seeking new members. If youre 
interested in learning to fly, or if youre 
already a pilot and youd like to get in 
on some of the best rates in town, 
check out the Tech Flying Club.
The Tech Flying Club is a nonprofit 
organization open to the students, 
faculty, staff and alumni of CarnegieMellon University. We own and 
operate an airplane for the use of club 
members.
orgHf:(4 
12 ) r73 -
The Tech Flying Club meets at 
7:30 PM on Wednesday, April 11 in Skibo 11
COME FLY WITH US!!!
partly funded by activities fee

---------------------------------------------------

Also: Trinidad-Tripoli Steel Band 
Saturday, April 0T,CnMM p.m. in the Tent
Funded by Activities Fee
Spring Carnival '84
Alex Cole  Comedian 
and 
THE
Friday, April 13 5:30p.m. Free! 
3n the Cut in Front of Skibo
Rain Location: Carnegie-Mellon Gym
University Dining Service Western Barbecue 
5-7 p.m. on Skibo Patio 
Cash, Validine, Contract Accepted)

---------------------------------------------------

SPRING CARNIVAL
EVENTS :
Register and pick up rules sheet at Skibo on 
Monday, April 9 9a-5p
Tuesday, April 10 9a-5p
Wednesday, April 11 9a-noon
Registration fee: $1,00 (pay at Info Desk)
You must live on campus to play.
Prize :: $ 50
Pick up assignments in Gray Matter (4/12) 
Game begins Thursday; ends Friday (6:00)
TAM
coAnpertr/oA/
Saturday, April 14 1:00
Teams consisting of 10 CMU students (5 
girls and 5 guys) must register and pick 
up rules at the Skibo Desk by 5:00p on 
Wed, April 11
A maximum of -6 teams can compete. 
Prizes::
1st  Trophy, Pittsburgh Playhouse 
tickets
2nd" Trophy, 2 Dominos Pizza 
3rd" Cake from Kunst Bakery
Opportunities for a challenging career involving state-c 
the-art technology, professional development, and advance
ment aren't the only rewards for being a member of 
America's aerospace team. The pay is good too. Air Force 
ROTC can show you the way to achieve your goals, and you 
may qualify for a scholarship that pays tuition, book costs, 
activity fees, plus $100 a month. Compare our rates and call 
Captain Scott at 578-8747, or stop by PH15 for more details.
SALARY
HOUSING
VARIABLE HOUSINGIAVG) 
SUBSISTENCE
GROSS
FEDERAL TAX 
STATE TAX 
SOCIAL SECURITY 
(taxes paid on salaryt only)
NET
7% RETIREMENT
BASE EXCHANGE/COMMISSARY
NET STANDARD OF LIVING
CIVILIAN 
SINGLE MARRIED
$25,000 $25,000
2nd LIEUTENANT
$25,000
-4,517
-903
-1.662
$17,918
-1.750
$25,000
3,294
-658
-1.662
$19,386 
-1.750
SINGLE
$13,716
2,7901.200
1.225
$18,931
-1,623
-324
-912
$16.072
MARRIED
$13,716
3,628
1,380
1,225
$19,949
-1,123
-224
-912
$17,690
=400 =5001
$16,472 $18,1901
ROTC
Gateway to a great way of life.
SAYBR00K COURT 
A new townhouse condominium 
In an established neighborhood
IF YOU ARE A FIRST TIME HOME BUYER EARNING BETWEEN 
$12,000 - 15,000 PER YEAR, WE HAVE A ONE BEDROOM UNIT 
FOR YOU THAT HAS JUST COME BACK ON THE MARKET DUE TO A 
JOB TRANSFER.
NOTE: ONLY THOSE PERSONS EARNING $12,000 - 15,000 PER YEAR,
PLEASE RESPOND
Total monthly payment less than rent. Call for details 
MONDAY - SUNDAY 12-4 (or by appointment)
(412) 681-9961(412) 681-9956
REALTY SALES, INC.EXCLUSIVE MARKETING AGENT
A Joint Venture of Oakland Planning and Development 
Corporation and Cranshaw Construction, Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

i
Mili
JPiS*w
cocmputp
File Photo
ty COMPUBOOKIE
fariai to The Tartan
The Compubookie is a little green gnome 
fto lives under the Panther Hollow Bridge, 
it had enough strength after nearly drownM last week to hand in his annual picks for 
the 1984 Sweepstakes.
Editor
Last years race made me a nervous wreck. 
Wd Pika switch teams to aim its Bullet at 
pen? Chute, I wont push that, lets roll on
o this year.
Is sweepstakes a zoo? How many Lemurs 
wll there be this year? In all my years Ive 
lever seen so many new buggies. All of the 
top finishing organizations of last year have 
p three-wheelers. The races should be as 
Riling as ever.
I^Keta Xi and Phi Kap look very promis-while Beta, Sigma Nu, CIA and Pika
!iis week it begins, Spring Carnival 1984. Time Machine: Its Better the Second Time Around is the theme, and, as usual, the Sweepstakes will highlight carnival.
weepstakes 1984:
ompubookie predicts Pika, Beta, Sigma Nu to finish one, two, three
will make their usual good showings. If 
youre keeping times for Fringe, SDC, SAE 
and DTD, bring a calendar.
Finally, you wont want to miss the excit
ing women and alumni heats.
ATO: Theyve worked a whole year on 
their suspension, maybe theyll shock us 
with a faster buggy.
Beta: Beta is out to prove that theyre boss 
with the presence of their intimidating push 
team. Although Vixen baled out, not to 
worry, theyve echoed a duplicate. The ques
tion is, Hey Jude, did you make it better?
CIA: CIA has gone off-track with its bug
gies and pushers. However, their old charms 
have not lost their magic, and they will be 
top contenders again this year.
DU: I dont think theyre a contender, 
DU?
Kappa Sig: Safety has surely left its mark
on Kappa Sig buggies.
Phi Kap: The Phi Kaps are trying to 
prove their theory that buggies roll faster on 
their sides than on their wheels. If its 
wrong, its kurtains for Phi Kap.
Pika: Three in the top six again? No such 
luck. Pika has yet another new buggy and 
will be good as always if they can decide 
which buggy to roll on race day. But if they 
dont bear down, theyll be scarcely what 
they were last year.
SDC: Skip em.
Sigma Nu: Like everyone else, the Zoo has 
copied the Lemur design. As always, theyll 
be fast this year, but did they fall for new 
pushbar technology?
Theta Xi: Theta Xi is pledging to have a 
field day with their new buggies, but when 
will they learn money cant buy everything?
Zebes dont have a shot at buggy this year, 
proving that drinking and driving dont 
mix.
PICKS:
Mens Heats
1. Pika ASeveral small advantages.
2. Beta ATraining harder than ever (even 
harder than Pika?).
3. Zoo ALacks competitive push team.
4. CIA AThat old black magic.
5. Theta Xi ATrying to cash in on new 
buggies.
6. Pika B- -or will it be Pika A, or C, or D? 
Womens Heats
1. CIAAs always.
Alumni Heats
1. PikaThe only ones that care.
Best Race: Heat 14
ZBT: Thanks to a rush violation, the Winning time: 2:09.5puggy chairmen give personal outlook
I D-S B. and C.D.L.
rfan staffivriters 
In order to get a more personal report on 
Be Sweepstakes, The Tartan has asked the 
fegy chairmen that we could get in touch 
*lh and asked for their opinion on their 
Wn buggies and those of other groups. 
|ere are our findings:
Pi Lambda Phi 
Names of buggies entered: Legend, Fal|rn> Miss Budweiser.
i technological developments or edge:
 'gured out how to make it through the
P>ute
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Top ten or 
aVbe top six.
Wmners: Pika
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
arnes of buggies entered: Limo, 
ltr, Hustler, IQT.
Technological developments or edge: 
Square wheels, heavy drivers, light 
pushers.
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Drink more 
kegs than anyone else.
Winners: Pika, CIA.
Pi Kappa Alpha 
Names of buggies entered: Godzilla, 
Bullet, White Lightning, Mach I.
Technological developments: Push bars. 
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Confident, but 
tough competition.
Winners: Beta, Sigma Nu, CIA.
Phi Kappa Theta 
Names of buggies entered: Stiletto, Sil
houette, Streak, Shadow.
Technological developments or edge: 
Best configuration out there.
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Top six. 
Winners: Pika, Sigma Nu, Beta.
Beta Theta Pi
Names of buggies entered: Athena, Pres
ence, Vixen, Echo.
Technological developments or edge: 
Best push teams.
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Hopefully 
first.
Winners: Pika, Sigma Nu, Beta.
Theta Xi
Names of buggies entered: Relayer, Little 
Nip, Rapier, Vapor.
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Twelfth. 
Winners: Pika, Zoo.
Alpha Tau Omega
Names of buggies entered: Quarterhorse, 
Gander.
Technological developments or edge: 
Wheels and tires.
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Competitive. 
Winners: Sigma Nu, Beta, Theta Xi. 
SDC
Names of buggies entered: Blue Haze,
Technological developments or edge: Opus.
Sticking to basics.
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Top ten. 
Winners: Sigma Nu, Beta.
Delta Tau Delta
Names of buggies entered: Delt Queen, 
Cyclone.
Technological developments or edge: 
Determination.
Outlook for Sweepstakes: "Wait and see. 
Winners: Pika, Zoo, Theta Xi.
Sigma Nu 
Names of buggies entered: Scorpion,
Technological developments or edge: ESP, Colugo, Lemur.
Yes.continuad on page 14

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanApril 10, 1984
Buggy '84: answers to many of the 
questions you may be asking
By SUSAN CASE
Special to the Tartan
Going downhill at high speeds may not 
seem exceptional to the everyday driver. But 
put him flat on his stomach and give him a 
cats-eye view of the road whizzing by half a 
foot away and hes got some hairy adven
tures ahead.
Thats what students at Camegie-Mellon 
University have been doing since 1920 at the 
schools annual Spring Carnival. And 
theyve been loving every minute of it.
The buggies, which started out as rolling 
crates and cast-iron bathtubs on wheels, now 
are built with fiberglass and lightweight 
steel or aluminum frames. The rigs are 
made by CMU campus organizations 
(mostly fraternities) and sometimes cost as 
much as $5,000 each. Each buggy has a large 
T-bar tailfin dials used to push it up the five 
uphill runs in the one-mile course through 
the citys Schenley Park.
Predictably, the buggies are on the small 
side, with vital stats of 24 inches or less in 
height from ground to dome tip (including 
six inches of ground clearance). Wheelbase 
is four feet and total length 5'8". The aver
age belly-buggy driver whos 5'5" tall 
weighs 100 lbs., steers the buggys wheels 
with hand levers and stops the rig with disc 
brakes. All controls are up front. With the 
physical requirements being what they are
to keep weight, resistance and friction low, 
its little wonder why many CMU coeds take 
on the driving chores.
The wheels on each buggy were origi
nally 24-inch bicycle wheels but theyve 
been replaced by 12-inch chemically-coated 
rubber, which retains heat. The wheels are 
heated before the race time to insure greater 
speeds.
Each team consists of six studentsfive 
pushers and one driver. The pushers steer 
the buggies uphill as fast and as straight as 
they can. But on downhill runs, the drivers 
are on their own.
Buggies are judged not only on speed but 
on design. Judges, chosen for their knowl
edge of materials and technology, rate each 
buggy for overall appearance, mechanical 
workings and innovations. For a buggy to 
win the design trophy, it must finish in the 
top half of the contenders, showing its 
mechanics are useful and not simply for 
show.
Although the entire race lasts just min
utes, many months go into building, stra
tegy and practice sessions. And just weeks 
after the race is over, it all starts anew.
This piece originally appeared in 
Mechanix Illustrated magazine. Copyright 
CBS publications 1979. Susan Case is a 1978 
graduate of CMU.  Ed.
More predictions by the chairmen
continued from page 13
Technological developments or edge: 
None really, same as always.
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Well be 
close.
Winners: Beta, Pika.
Delta Upsilon 
Names of buggies entered: Flying tiger,
Thumper.
Technological developments or edge: 
Secret developments.
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Were gonna 
do really well this year. Well have at least 
one in the top six.
Winners: Pika, Sigma Nu, GA, DU.
Men
HeatLane 1Lae 2Lane 31TX-DBeta-DSN-D
2SAE-CPiLam-CKS-D
3SAE-DBeta-CPhi Kap-D
4ATO-CFringe-B5CIA-CDTD-CTX-C
6Pika-DDU-CSDC-C
7SAE-ASN-CBeta-B
8ATO-AKS-CCIAD
9Phi Kap-ADTD-BTX-B
10PiLam-ASDC-BPika-C
11QA-BFringe-ADU-A
12SN-BKS-APhi Kap-C
13Pika-BSAE-B
14TX-ABeta-ASDC-A
15ATO-BCIA-ADU-B
16PiLam-BPhi Kap-BPiLam-A
17SN-ADTD-A
Women
KSB
1SDC-BKS-ABeta-A
2QA-BTX-APLam-B
3DU-AFringe-AKS-B
4Pika-APiLam-ATX-B
5SN-ACIA-ASDC-A
*Buggy Schedule
: :  . .
Friday, April IS;
if, s \ , v X jv I- <; ]
Saturday, April 14;
Womens heats, 8:00 a.m. 
mens heats follow 
alumni heats, 7:30 a.m.
IXmJUHl ivM-MXwV
\ ? N' , ,   IS 1
. . . .... ..... .... . - : ........
The Senior Gateway Clipper Cruise
Sponsored by the Class Club 
Date: Saturday April 28, 1984
Time: Board at 10:30 p.m.
Sail at 11:00 p.m.
Dock at 2:00 a.m.
Band: Magpie
Price: $3.00 per person
Tickets: For Seniors only  Apr il 16, 1984 thru April 22, 
Campus Community  April 23, 1984 thru April 28
Cash
Bar
(Proper I.D. 
Required)
Free
Munchies
and
Soda

---------------------------------------------------

FINALS SCHEDULE
R.bkh,VhgPhllWk OkVAhboVI) 
:nfie hBiUnfiSnDf 2Denvr ifp ovNEpTeE
WaanvE Da SNE bEmntScic 
oCcnfm 8194g90
POLICY
VNE :ivTeSr oEfiSE ipDCSEp SNE aDeeD3nfm CDenvnEt Df SNE ipUnfntSciSnDf Da anfie EBiinfiSnDft aDc SNE TfpEcmcipTiSE vDTctEtM
1y iee anfie EBiUt tNiee dE mnuEf nf SNE anfie EBiU CEcnDp$
y SNE cEipnfm pir ifp 3EE6Efp CcEvEpnfm EBiUt tNiee fEuEc dE TtEp aDc 
EBiU CTcCDtEt Da ifr 6nfp$
3y aivTeSr tNiee fDS EBEcS Dc tTdUnS SD CcEttTcEt SD UDuE if EBiU tD SNiS 
CEDCeE vif eEiuE EicenEc$
0y fD tSTpEfS tNiee dE cE-TncEp SD Si6E UDcE SNif S3D EBiUt Df i mnuEf anfiet 
pir$ SNE cEmntScic tNiee ittntS SNE tSTpEfS nf cEtDeunfm vDfaenvSt$
Hy fD vcnSn-TEt Dc 7TcnEt tNiee dE tvNEpTeEp Df SNE eitS pir Da veittEt$
y CiCEct tNiee dE UipE pTE fD eiSEc SNif Df SNE eitS pir Da veittEt$
jy Si6EgNDUE anfie EBiUt tNiee dE mnuEf aDc ifr 0 NDTc CEcnDp Da SNE tSTpEfS^t 
vNDDtnfm pTcnfm SNE anfie EBiU CEcnDpy
bE-TEtSJ aDc EBvECSnDft SD SNnt CDenvr tNDTep dE UipE SD bnvNicp .y binftdEcmEc5 
bEmntScicy
R;hPVoIb)
-2-
1g80RN .tC Wcm *nDvN PSeITEPir98Mg0M';8881g8H'rfiUnvt ( h-TnendPDfPirj8Mg0M';48H1g8*Dfpnfm oScTvS 2cnfvITEPir9HM4g9M4';81g88jWcmifnv RNEUntScr VPDfPirjHM4g9M4';881g802Nrtve RNEUntScr V:cnPir888Mg0MSP801g89Wcmifnv RNEUntScr VVITEPir98Mg0M;;*84855 ;; *841g002Nrtve RNEUntScr VVVPDfPirj8Mg0 M;;*84855 ;; *841g09VfDcmifnv RNEUntScr:cnPir08Mg0M';881g0HVfpTt Wcmifnv RNEUITEPir9HM4g9M4';8881g008kTveEic ( bipnDvNEUITEPir9HM4g9M4';881gj8orfSN Wcmifnv RNEU/EpPir19M4g88M4';8H1gj48kTveEic ( bipnDvNEUITEPir9HM4g9M4';88
RVAVl hk,VkhhbVk,
8g9'rfiUnvt/EpPir18Mg0M2;
8g48HPiSEcniet:cnPir09M4g88M4*;8488g4HoDne PEvNifnvt:cnPir0HM4g9M42;HR8g8oScTvSTcie PEvN VV/EpPir1HM4g9M42;84*8g4/iSEc bEtDTcvEt hfmcPDfPirj9M4g88M42;8H'
8g4Hhfucf hfm VttTEt 2cdPDfPirjHM4g9M42;81.
8g4j2cd hfmc 2cD7 huieTi:cnPir889M4g88M42;8
8gj0bEenideSr bnt6 .fieITEPir99M4g88M4.piUtDfbDDU
8gjPiSN Ppe hfu QTie orPDfPirj8Mg0M2;84*8gj94oDne 'rfiUnvt/EpPir1HM4g9M42;8H'
RWP2OIhb oRVhkRh
*VWlW,VR.l oRVhkRho8Hg8VfScD SD RDUCTSnfm 'ITEPir9HM4g9M4;; *8485
8Hg889VfScD SD RDUCTSnfm R (lVo2)ITEPir99M4g88M42; 81R
4g882EctCEvSnuEt Da *nDeDmrITE Pir 9HM4gjM4/h; jH8HgoTcu 2cmccifm PSN .CCnPDfPirjHM4g9M4PX 84
4g880lnaE Wcnmnf huDeTSf:cn Pir 888Mg4M2; HR8Hg88:Tfp oSc 2cDmcUfm VINTPir8HM4g9M4'; 8
4g88PDpEcf *nDeDmrITE Pir 98Mg0M'; 88Hg8:Tfp oSc 2cDmcUfm VVPDfPirjHM4g9M4'; 8
4g48*nDvNEUntScr V:cn Pir 889M4g8M4'; 888Hg48RUCcSu 2cmcUfm lifm:cnPir889M4g88M4/h; jH
4g00hBC IEvN nf *nDvNEUITE Pir 99M4g88M4'; 8888Hg49.cSave VfS AntfsPDSfITEPir99M4g1M4/h; jH
4g4H'EAEeDCUfSe *nDeDmr/Ep Pir 18Mg0Mo; 08Hg084oDaS3icE hfmc PSNpt/EpPir1HM4gjM4/h; H04
4g008PDeEv *nD 2cD6icrDSEITE Pir 98Mg0Mo; 8H8Hg0H4:cUe lifm ( .TSDUiSi/EpPir19M4g88M4/h; H0j
8Hg0RDUCTSEc ,ciCNnvt:cnPir08Mg0M/h; jH
R;hPVR.l hk,VkhhbVk,hlhRIbVR.l .k' RWP2OIhb hk,VkhhbVk,
g88VfScD SD RNEU hfmcITEPir99M4g88M4';88
g8H2cnfv Da :eTnp PEvN:cnPir888Mg0M/h;H04/h; H0j
gOfnS WCEciSnDft RN h/EpPir1HM4g9M4';8885';88
gHRNEU hfmc lid V/EpPir18MgM';88
gjRNEU hfmc lid VVV:cnPir888MgM';8885';88
g40hvDf ( WCSnUnziSnDf:cnPir0 J9M4g8M4;;*848 ;;*84
g412Nr RNEU RDeept oTcaPDfPirj9M4g88M4';888
g48IciftCDcS 2NEfDUEfi/EpPir18Mg0M';81
gj.pu .CC bEiv KnfESvt/EpPir1H M4g9 M 4/h;H0j
gjj2Nr RNEU RDeept oTcaPDfPiuj9M4g88M4';888
gj8H.pu 2cDv orfSNEtnt/EpPir19M4g88M4';815';888
gj8heEvScDvNEUnvie hfmcPDfPirj8Mg4M';81
RVI VkIhb'VoRV2lVk.b) 2bW,b.P
41gH41g4b8 IU RDUCTS nf lid 
.fie orfSN ( huieTi
PDf Pir j 
:cn Pir 0
HM4g9M4 
HM4gjM4
*VWPh'VR.l hk,VkhhbVk,
0gH 2NrtnDeDmr 
0gj4H 2NrtnDeDmr
ITE Pir 9 
ITE Pir 9
9M4g88M4
9M4g88M4
hk,VkhhbVk, .k' 2O*lVR 2WlVR)
81g481
81g0
1-11111-1121-1211-122
8g8j
8gHj
8gH9
8gH1
8g
8g8
8g1
8g48
8g408
8g41
8g0j4
8g0j0
8g094
8g090
8gHH
*-112 '*-121 -141 
4
Jg8H 
Jg8 
JgH 
VJg44 
JJgH9 
Jg48
li3 ifp SNE hfmnfEEc 
RNi IvNfem hfucf oDv
RievTeTt V (;(oo) 
RievTeTt VV (;(oo) 
RievTeTt V 
RievTeTt VV
'nivc PiSN RUCSc ovn 
WCSicSf oDv ovn V 
WCSUzSf oDv ovn VV 
PSNpi .CCn PiSN V 
PSNpt .CCn PiSN VV 
heifSt Da .fiertnt 
WCEciSnDft bivN V 
RDUdnfiSDcnvt 
lnfEic .emEdci 
kTUEcnvie PESNDpt 
.emEdci
kUcve oDeT 'eaa h-Ti 
WCS einSiSnDf 
.CCenEp ,ciCN INEDcr 
PiSNiSve lDmnv VV
ITE Pir 9 
:cn Pir 0
P.I;hP.IVRo
8Mg0M 
8Mg0M
PDfPirj8Mg0M
PDfPirjHM 4g9 M4
INTPir88Mg0 M
/EpPir19M 4g88M 4
ITEPir99M 4g88M 4
INTPir88Mg0M
:cnPir09M 4g88M 4
:cnPir889M 4g88M 4
ITEPir9HM 4g9 M4
INTPir89M 4g88M 4
:cnPir888M g0 M
:cnPir09M 4g88M 4
:cnPir0HM 4g9 M4
/Ep;ir18M g0 M
ITEPir9HM 4g9 M4
INTPir89M 4g88M 4
INTPir88Mg0M
PDfPirj9M 4g88M 4
:cnPir0HM 4g9 M4
,cEmm ;iee 
/h; jH
'; 81 
'; 81
'; 88 
2; 8.
/h; H045 /h; H0j 
'; 48H5 /h; jH 
'; 888
,cEmm ;iee5 '; 85
'; 48H5 o; 8H 
'; 85 '; 4IH 
/h; H04
o; 8H5 PP 845 PP 80 
'; 85 '; 48H 
,cEmm ;iee5 '; 48H 
;; *8485 ;; *84 
'; 48H5 /h; jH 
*; 48 
'; 8
o; 8H5 o; 5 o; 8
PP 84
o; 8H
/h; jH
;; *8485 ;; *84
/h; H04
89g8:fpUfSet heEv hfmcPDf Pir j8Mg0Mo; 8H5 o; 
89g8heEvScfv RncvTnSt VPDf Pir j8Mg0M,cEmm ;iee5 2; 81.
89g880heEvScnvie hfmc VV.ITE Pir 98Mg0Mo; 
89g844VfScD SD 'nmnSie ortITE Pir 98Mg0M'; 48Hy /h; jHy
,cEmm ;iee
89g89lnfEic ortSEUt .fie:cn Pir 09M4g88M42; 81.5 2; 81R5
2; 5 2; 8
89g.f 'Et .fem 'nm RncvPDf Pir j9M4g88M4/h; jH5 o; 8o
89g4.CCe oDe oS 2Nrtnvt:cn Pir 888Mg0Mo; 8H
89g40:npt /iuEt Icf lnfEtPDf Pir j8 Mg0Mo; 5 o; 0
89g48:Tfp RDSUfTfvSf ortSITE Pir 9HM4g9M4.piUtDf bDDU
89g44oEUnvfpvS 'Eu .CC VVITE Pir 98Mg0Mo; 
89g408hevScUvN :npt :c PDSITE Pir 98Mg0Mo; 8
89gj:nf heEU PESN he hfmPDf Pir j8Mg0Mo; 0
89gj8RiCSc .np Rnc .f 'EtITE Pir 99M4g88M4o; 
89gjoEUnvfpvS 'Eu .CC VVITE Pir 98Mg0Mo; 
89gj0RiCSc oSc 2Eca huieTITE Pir 9HM4g9M4/h; H08H5 /h; H04
89gjjHWCSUe ( oSDvN RDfSce:cn Pir 0HM4g9M4o; 
PhI.llOb,VR.l hk,VkhhbVk, .k' P.IhbV.lo oRVhkRh
PhR;.kVR.l hk,VkhhbVk,
:eTnp PEvNifnvt 
INEcUDprfiUnvt V 
oSiSnvt ifp 'rfiUnvt 
oScEtt .fiertnt
2DSfSn :eD .EcDprf 
,it 'rfiUnvt 
'ncEvS hfEcmr Rfuctf 
;EiS IciftaEc 
kTUEcnvie PESNDpi 
VfScD kTveEic 2DuEc
INT
:cn
INT
:cn
:cn
:cn
ITE
PDf
:cn
/Ep
:cn
/Ep
Pir
Pir
Pir
Pir
Pir
Pir
Pir
Pir
Pir
Pir
Pir
Pir
8HM4g9M4;; *84855 ;;*84
888Mg0M;; *84855 ;;*84
88Mg0M;; *84855 ;;*84
889M4g88M4o; 
889M4g88M4o; 8
889M4g88M4o; 
99M4g88M4;; *848
j8Mg0 Mo; 8
888Mg0Mo; 0
1HM4g9M4o; 
09M4g88M4.piUtDfbDDU
19M4g88M4o; 
jg848PiSEcniet ovnEfvE. /EpPir18Mg0M
* /EpPir18Mg0M
R /EpPir18Mg0M
jg8IciftCDcS ( KnfESnvt/EpPir1H84g9 $ 4
jg42cDvEtt PESieeTcmr/EpPir18Mg0Mjg442Nrtve PESieeTcmr VPDfPirj9M4g8M4
jgH48PiSe .tC oEUevfp 'EuITEPir99M4g88M4
jgHHREciUnvt ( ,eittEt:cnPir888Mg0M
jgj9INEcUDprfiUnv tPDfPirjHM4g9M4
2;)oVRo
448842Nrt PTtnvie oDTfpINTPir8HM4g9M4
44g88VfScDpTvSDcr 2Nrtnvt:cnPir888Mg0M
44g882Nrtnvt V PEvNifnvtINTPir8HM4g9M4
44g82Nrtnvt VV ;S /u WCS:cnPir09M4g88M4
44g842Nrtnvt VVV heEv Pim/EpPir1HM4g9M4
44g802Nrtnvt VA .S 2Nr oS PSPDfPirjHM4g9M4
44g8482Nrtve PEvNifnvt VVITEPir98Mg0M
44g840PDpEcf 2Nrtnvt V:cnPir09M4g88M4
44g049VfScUp heEv ( Pim VV:cnPir08Mg0M
44g00VfScD oSiS 2Nrtnvt/EpPir19M4g88M4
44g000VfScD kTveEic 2NrtITEPir9HM4g9M4
44g00/iuE PEvNifnvt:cnPir09M4g88M4
44g009VfScD oDenp oS 2Nrt/EpPir1HM4g9M4
44g0H02Nrtnvt Da RDfSnfTi:cnPir888Mg0M
44gjHQTifSTU PEvNifevi VV:cnPir00M4g9M4
44gjVfScD INED 2Nrt VV:cnPir889M4g88M4
44gj8Reittve hevScDprf VITEPir99M4g88M4
oI.IVoIVRo
4g82cd .CC oSi Pm oo VVPDf Pirj8Mg0M
4g82cd .CC oS 2N o 0 o VVINT Pir8HM4g9M4
4g82cDdidnenSr oSiS VV. PDf Pirj8 Mg0M
* PDf Pirj8Mg0M
4g81oSiS PSN 'iSi .f VINTPir8HM4gjM4
4g0HoSiStSve oDaS3c 26mt:cnPir888Mg0M
4g4.pu 'iSi .fiertnt VVITEPir99M4g88M4
'; 48H 
;; *848 
/h; jH 
'; .48j 
'; .48j 
'; 8 
/h; H0j 
'; .48j 
'; .48j
/h; jH 
.fpiUiDf bDDU 
/h; H045 /h; H0j 
,cEmm ;iee5 '; 888 
'; 885 '; 85
'; 48Hy /h; jH
/h; jH
/h; 90j
/h; H04
/h; H0j
/h; 90j
/h; j48
/h; 90j
/h; 90j
/h; 04
/h; 04
/h; 90j
/h; j48
/h; j48
'; 85 /h; jH5 m 84 
'; 48H 
'; 888 
'; 88 
RcEmm ;iee 
2; R 
2; 8H*

---------------------------------------------------

Photos by Mike Pilewski, 
Todd Prario, Colin Rafferty, 
Dave Loren, and Andrei Didvcz
Exerpts. from French President 
FrancoisMitterrand's speech 
(March 27, 1984)
The Skibo pavilion was adorned with'
Because the outlets ares 
the economic impact cam 
our teams, because of the 
want them to associate tl 
French industry and also 
great universities and Id 
and elsewhere, particuhw^ 
same action. So this zvoffl 
transfer of knowledge, tm| 
grasp. If we really perst 
this chain will, step by st 
of the planet. And I thiA 
people think. Because dot j 
for the future, this is soi
Centerfold desiflI 
and Mike Pile^The Presidents and interpreter listen to Dr. Reddy's acceptance speech.
Let us have the courage 
a new look at things
Seen from an upper floor of the Cathei
I appreciate that comt 
everything in education, b$ 
go, wherever you turn, thi 
steam and water used to 
became necessary for 
requires knowledge of a 
sort of common discipline t 
should move. It isn't them 
is it the ultimate end of eve 
that we must follow. And\ 
faster than others, have aha 
this and I hope that they; 
the rest of society. And w/ii| 
setting up your inter-uni 
exchanges and networks, 
moved forward the variowl 
tary to them, we in France]
Students reach a compromise after a heated conflict with authority.
Now this work is absolutely essential. It's the whole 
question of training people, training men and women by the 
most modem methods that science places at our disposal. 
And I think it is surely only natural to come to this univer
sity, here, Carnegie-Mellon, as soon as one is talking about 
matters that relate to science and science placed at the dispo
sal of training individuals, training peoplein other words, 
that is, the transformation of our society. 
Thrilled spectators line the path of the Presidential motorcade.
We're here at the very heart of the essential and basic 
problem. Will we at last be able to place the power of these 
new instruments of science at the disposal of individual 
human capabilities and the redeployment of the activities of 
man. 

---------------------------------------------------

a new approach, to have
ling, the campus sparkled.
racy is the very basis of 
knowledge, wherever you 
Just as I mentioned that 
try, and then electricity 
well now everything 
\technologies. That is the 
in that direction that we 
jery thing, mind you, nor 
But it is a necessary route 
ig people in our country, 
\ome entirely convinced of 
on their momentum to 
U are moving forward and 
consortium, multiplying 
on our side, one by one, 
which are complemen*****  | ll
| the two participant nations.
us, and the possibilities, 
rnious, that I have asked 
e task to be carried out, I 
closely as possible with 
is only naturalthe 
ln the world, who here 
n> are engaged in the 
rt of universal chain, a 
thing that is within our 
lthout wasting any time 
Pass all the populations 
 happen quicker than 
hat I am pipe dreaming
* w actually started. "
WJ. Greenblum
There must be transfer of knowledge from generation to 
generation, social category to social category, culture to 
culture, continent to continent."
Jean-Jacques Servan-Schreiber delivered a "pep talk" the day before Mitterrand's arrival.
It is life that people are stretching their arms out for. It is 
important that everyone should be capable to create, to 
work, and for this solidarity is vital. And ultimately this is 
what we give back, the taste of life to so many men who have 
lost it in the world. That is surely a great generation. Like 
other generations we will only reached have <he end of 
perhaps the first stage and many, many others after us will 
have to continue the work. But at least it is surely worth
while, to devote one's own life span to such a project/'
President Mitterrand accepts a gift of computer art from the university.

---------------------------------------------------

FINALS SCHEDULE
AICHITECnnUE
0g84oSiSnvJ:cnPir888Mg0Mm 84
0Jge0'Etnmf ovefvT INiD:cnPir0HM4gjM4PV 80
0bg804'Etnmf Pifimit3fSPDfPirjHM4g9MPP 80
09g4j.cvN :cif6 l /cnmNS/EpPir19M4g8M4m 80
09g4jj;nmN eifnnn Vf VSierITEPir98Mg0MI*.
09g4j9RNTcvN ifp IDidITEPir98Mg4MIh.
09g498RiC dii VfpiC oSTprIh.
09g411ICvi .cv onfvE // VV:cnPir08Mg4MR:. 
09g480INEDcr XA 'Ei huieTi:cnPir0HM4g9M4R:. 88
09gH8INEDcr AV 'Etnmf PmS:cnPir888Mg0MR:. 88
09gjHSEie htSiSE hvDfPDfPirj9M4g88M4PP 48
'hoV,k
48g8VfScD SD 'Etnmf VV/EpPir19M4g88M4*; 49
H8g8j8,ciCNnv 'Etnmf :Tfp. ITEPir9HM4g9M4*; 41
* PDfPirj8Mg0M*; 41
H8g8*tScr INEE Da 'EtnmfITEPir98MgM4*; 48
H8g412cDSDSrCE PESNDpt/EpPir19M4g88M4*; 4H*
H8gH0VfpTtScnie oSTpnD I:cnPir889M4g88M4*; 40H
H8g482cnfvnCeEt 2eiffnfmPtfPirj8Mg0M.pitPDf
H8g448RctCNev eEEmVfm 2cDvITEPir99M4g88M4*; 4H*
H8g49orfE Scr oScTvS :DcE/EpPir18Mg0M*; 41
POoVR
Hjg81heEiEfSicr INEDcrINTPir88MgMR:. 8
Hjg8H8;iciDfr VITEPir9HM4gjM4R:. 8
Hjg8H;iciDfr VVPDfPirj9M4g8M4PP 84
Hjg8H0;iciDfr VA:cnPir08Mg4MR:. 8
Hjg8hTcrSNievt VV/EpPir19M4g88M4PP 881
Hjg80KTcrSNievt VAITEPir99M4g8M4kP 881
Hjg8hTcrSNievt AV/EpPir19M4g88M4PP 881
Hjg8joDeaEmE PTt INEt VVITEPir99M4g8M4V 8j
Hjg8j9oDeaEmE PTt INEi VA/EpPir19M4g8M4PP 8j
Hjg89oDeaEmE VPDfPirj8Mg4M8 8j
Hjg890oDeaEmE VVVITEPir98Mg4MPP 8j
Hjg4;ntSDcr Da PTtnv VV/EpPir18Mg4MR:. 8
HjgH;ntSDcr Da PTtnv VA:cnPir0HM4gjM4R:. 8
HjgHIDfie RDTfSEcCDnfSPDfPirj9M4g8M4R:. 8
HjgH9SN REfS IEvNfn-TEt:cnPir888MgMR:. 8Hj
Hjg:TmTE VVPDfPirjHM4gM4R:. 8Hj
Hjg44HRNDciesVfiSc RDfpTvS:cnPir08MgM.R;
Hjg40jhevScf ( RiCS PTt V/EpPir18Mg4MR:. 8j
Hjg09:Dci 0 .fiertnt V/EpPir18Mg4MI*.
Hjg00H/DDp3nfp PESNDpt:cnPir889M4g1M4R:. 8Hj
Hjg0Krdp ;c 0 ov bpm VVPDfPirj8MgMR:. 8
Hjg10PTtnv Da J o *ivN:cnPir889 M4g8M4I*.
Hjg1HWCEcii Da PDzicSPDfPirj8Mg4MR:. 8Hj
Hjg1oTcuEr Da RNDcie lnS:cnPir0HM4gM4PP 88
hk,lVo;
jg88lnSEciSTcE.:cnPir0HM4g9M4*;4H.
*:cnPir0HM4g9M42;8.
R:cnPir0HM4g9M42;8*
':cnPir0HM4g9M42;81R
h:cnPir0HM4g9M4*;0H
::cnPir0HM4g9M42;
,:cnPir0HM4g9M42;8R
;:cnPir0HM4g9M42;8
V:cnPir0HM4g9M4*;848
jg8oEB ifp ,EfpEc:cnPir0HM4g9M4*;4H*
jg.iEcevif :nvSnDfINTPir89M4g88M4*;0H
jg4*dep PrSNg*6mcp lnSINTPir89M4g88M4.piiiDf
jg00oNi6EtCEicE.*INTPir8HM4g9M4.piitDf
RINTPir8HM4g9M42;81.
'INTPir8HM4g9M42;81R
jgj8VfScD 2cDa IEvN /cnS*/EpPir19M4g8M4*;1*
jg4hCnv Efp bDiifvEINTPir88Mg0M*;HH.
jg48PDpEcf 'ciii:cnPir0HM4g9M4*;1*
jg40889SN REfSTcr oiSncE:cnPir09M4g88M42;8HR
jg4j8bNESDc oDv VkSEcivSf/EpPir18Mg0M.pit3Df
jg082eif  IEiS 'DvTifSi/EpPir19M4g88M4*;4H.
jg008'nv6EftPDfPirjHM4g9M4*;HH*
jg0jJDTcfienii VfSEcftNCPDfPirj9M4g8M4*;1*
jg09;tScr Da bNESDcnv VV/EpPir19M4g8 8M42;
jgjhCnv ifp bDiifvEINTPir88Mg0M*;HH.
jgj8PDpEcf 'ciiE:cnPir0HM4g9M4*;1*
jgj2cDa Wcie 2cEiEfSiSf:cnPir0HM4g9M4*;HH.
jgj0889SN REfSTcr oiSncE:cnPir09M4g88M42;8HR
jgjj2cDaEtteDfte /cnSnfm:cnPir888Mg0M*;HH*
jgjj8bNESDc oDv VfStctvSf/EpPir18Mg0M.piiiDf
jg908'nv6EftPDfPirjHM4g9M4*;HH*
jg9jJDTcfienti VfSEcftNCPDfPirj9M4g8M4*;1*
sg99;tScr Da bNESDcnv VV/EpPir19M4g88M42;
;VoIWb) .k 2;VlWoW2;)
j1g84.iEcevif RnunenziSnDf yPDfPirj9M4g8M4*;4H*
j1g80VfScD SD /Dcep ;eiS/EpPir1HM4gjM4*;0H
j1g88Wcnmnfi Da PpU /cVp/EpPir18Mg4M,cEmm ;iee5 ';
j1g8'Eu Da .iEc oDvnESr:cnPir888Mg4M,cEmm ;iee5 ';
j1gRNnfEtE RTeS 0 oDv/EpPir18Mg4M*;4H.
j1g0;tS  lnS liSnf .iEcPDfPirjHM4gjM4*;4H.
j1g4/Dc6 Efp lEntTcEINTPir88Mg4Mo;8H
j1g48RiCSc .CCn nf ;TiifPDfPirj8Mg4M*;4H.
j1g4jSNgREfSTcr .iEceEi/EpPir1HM4gjM42;8H*
j1g4H1IEvNfemr 0 WcmfeziSfITEPir98Mg4M*;1*
j1g48/eSvNvcaS 0 oDv ;ntS:cnPir05 9M4g1M42;HR
j1g4hTcDCE RTeS la oSreEThuPir88Mg4M*;0H
j1g4jhTcDCE VfSn .aainctThuPir89M4g8M42;H*
j1g4j8oDunES OfnDf IDpirTuePir99M4g8M42;HR
j1g499/ic ifp IEvNfDeDmrThuPir8HM4gjM42;HR
j1g491RnSr ifp IEvNfDeDmrWedPir1HM4gj M42;8
9g82NeeDi PSNpi oDv Ate.*INT Pir89M4g8M4'b 48H
'hINT Pir89M4g8M42; HR
9gH2NneDt 0 lnSEciSTcEPDf PirjHM4gjM4'; 88j
9g88Pic6ESi ifp hSNESevi/Ep Pir1HM4gjM42; 8R
9gHINEDcnEt Da 2infSnfm:cn Pir08Mg4M.pit3Df bDDi
9g48VfScD SD lDmnv:cn Pir889M4g8M42; 81.
9g4.puifvEp .EtSNESnvtITE Pir98Mg4M*; 0H
;0ooVk hb'VoRV2lVk.bI 2bW,b.P
gHkSf dC /cep WcpITE Pir 98Mg4M2; HRg80.mE Da SNE *icD-TEITE Pir 99M4g8M4*; Hg48H;DeDviTtS Iu VfS OfpPDf Pir j9M4g88M4.pSiPWaS FI
.'PVkVoIb.IVWk.k' P.k.,hPhkI oRVhkRh
jg88heEi VfpTtSce .pief*/Ep Pir 18Mg0M'; 888jg88:nfifvnie .vvS V./Ep Pir 9HM4g9M42; 8HR*R/Ep Pir 9HM4g9M4,cEmm ;ieejg8VfScD ,ci RifvSft VITE Pir 99M4g8M42b 8jg88VfScD ,ci RifvSft VVPDf Pir j9M4g8M4ra USjg814,ctCN RDiiTf 2cDv VVITE PEr 9HM4g9M4*; 80jg488WcmfzSfe *ENiunDc VPDf PEr j9M4g88M4*; 48jg48WcmfzSfe *ENiunDc VV:cn Pnr 0HM4g9M4W 12jg48:DTfpiSnDfi Da li3.:cn Pir 889M4g88M4o; fl $*:cn Pir 889M4g88M4*; 888jg44li3 nf PpU .tPc oDv.INT Pir 89M4g88M4W; 88*INT Pir 89M4g88M4W; 888jg4j82cDpTvSnDf V:cn Pir 08Mg0MW; 8Hjg4j4'rfiUnv 2cDmciiinfm:cn Pir 889M4g88M4/hb 04jg498Pic6ESnfm V:cn Pir 0HM4g9M4EN mjg418:nfifvE V.*/Ep Pir 1HM4g9M4Wb 81R/Ep Pir 1HM4g9M4Adaasea toftjg0RDtS .vvDTfSnfmITE Pir 98Mg0Mm imjg0.puifvEp .vvDTfSnfm/Ep Pir 18Mg0M2; jg00oSciSEmnv PifimEUEfSITE PEr 9HM4g9M4b; 8J8jg0H8PmifS VfaDciiSf ortS:cn Pir 0H:4J9 :42; 19Ajg098Pic6ESnfm VVPDf Pir j8Mg0M*; 848jg4,cCN RifvSf 2cDv VVVITE Pir 9HM4g9M4m 19cjg49.pu RDiCTSEc ,ciCNviITE Pir 98Mg0M2; 8HR
hRWkWPVRo
j4g82cefv Da hvDfDinvt.g::cnPir08Mg0M,cEmm ;iee,gk:cnPir08Mg0M'b 8j4gHVfSEcfEp PnvcDEvDf./EpPir19M4g88M4/hb jH*/EpPir19M4g88M42b 81R
R/EpPir19M4g88M42; 8J.'/EpPir19M4g88M42; j4gH8VfS PnvcDEvDf INEDcr*:cnPir889M4g8M42; 8obj4g4VfSEcfEp PivcDEvDf.ITEPir99M4g88M4RcEmm ;iO*ITEPir99M4g88M4*; 48
RITEPir99M4g88M4RcEmm bine
'ITEPir99M4g88M4*b 848j4g40HVfpTt 0 lidDc bEeINTPir8HM4g9M4*; 48j4g4H82Tdenv :nfifvEPDfPirj9M4g88M4o; j4g4hvDfDfEScnvt/EpPir19M4g88M4'; 88j4g0H9PDfEr 0 *if6nfm:cnPir889M4g88M4*; 48j4g0jHhv Wcm :nf oS hT ;tSITEPir98Mg0 M.piiiDf bD<
9g8heEiEfSicr :cEfvNITEPir9HM4gjM4*;4H*
9g842cDmciiiEp :cEfvNINTPir89M4g88M4,cEmm ;iee
9g8heEiEfSicr REciif:cnPir889M4g8M42;HR
9g842cDmciiiEp ,EcUif/EpPir1HM4gjM42;HR
9g80heEiEfSicr oCifntNINTPir89M4g8M42;8
9g8heEiEfSicr VSienif:cnPir09M4g8M42;H*
9gVfS :cEfvN RTeS oDv.INTPir88Mg4M2;81.
*INTPir88Mg4MPP09
9gVfS ,EcUif RTeS oDv/EpPir1HM4gjM4';8
9g0VfS oCifntN RTeS oDvINTPir88Mg4M2;R
9gH;tS 0 lnS liSnf .iEcPDfPirjHM4gjM4*;4H.
9g4:cEfvN RDfuEc 0 RDUC/EpPir19M4g8M4*;HH.
9g4,EcUif RDfuEc 0 RDUCINTPir88Mg4M2;
9g08HoSTpnEi :cEfvN lnS:cnPir889M4ge$4*;4H.
9g04oSTpnEt ,EcUif lnS:cnPir889M4g8M42;R
2o)R;WlW,) .k' h'OR.IVWk
9Hg8RDm 2cDv INEDcr 0 2civ:cnPir889M4g8M4,cEmm ;iee
9Hg88,EfEcie 2trvNDeDmrINTPir88MgM*;48
9Hg88RDmfnSnuE 2trvNDeDmr.INTPir88Mg0M';8
*INTPir88Mg0M';48H
9Hg08VfScD oDvete 2trvN/EpPir1 58Mg0M2;81.52;
9Hgj8hfuUUfSe 2trvNDeDmr/EpPir18MgM4F*;44*
9Hg48btvN PSNpt RDm 2trvNITEPir 9HM4g9M4*;448;
9Hg4H0.dfDciie 2trvNDeDmr/EpPir19M4g8M4*;40.
9HgH.puy oEieftc (/cS btvN).:cnPir09M4g88M4*;1*
oWRV.loRVhkRh
99g88oDvnie VfaeTEfvEPDfPirj9M4g88M4,cEmm ;iee
';8
99g8'Ev 2c .UEc 2De VftSITEPir9H M4g9 M4o;8H
99g2Denvr .fiertnt VITEPir99M4g88M42;8R
99g82Denvr .fiertnt VV/EpPir19M4g88M42;HR
99g08hUCncve btvN PESN VV:cngPir08 Mg0M2;8H*
99g8WcmfzSfe 'Evntf P6fm:cnPir889M4g88M42;81R52;
99g98oDvnie ovn INEDcr VVTuePir9HM 4g9 M 4PP09
99g482DenSnvie 2trvNDeDmrPDfPirjHM4g9M42;8j*
99g4RnSnEt 0 IEvNfDeDmrWedPir1HM4gjM4g2;8
99g0HbEmTeiSDcr 2cDvEttEt/EpPir1H M4g9 M 4PP09
99gjj2Denvr .fiertnt VTuePir99M4g88M42;8R
99gj92Denvr .fiertnt VVWedPir19M4g88M42;HR
99gj82DenSnvie 2trvNDeDmrPDfPirjHM4g9M42;8j*
99gj8HhUCncve btvN PESN VV:cnPir0N ERRPORR2;8H*
99gj8jWcmfzSfe 'Evntf P6fm:cnPir889M4g88M42;81R52;
99gj81oDvnie ovn INEDcr VVTuePir9HM4g9M4PP09
99gjRnSnEt 0 IEvNfDeDmrWedPiu1HM4gjM42;21
99g9HbEmTeiSDcr 2cDvEttEtWedPir1H M4g9 M 4PP09

---------------------------------------------------

April 10, 1984The TartanPage 19
Expos, Padres picked to win in National League
&
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Sports Editor
The season has begun. All the trades are 
made. All the talk can stop now, the season 
has begun. Baseball 1984 shows us new 
things- The Goose has moved to the 
Chickens house. The Expos 
have a Rosey outlook on the sea
son, while Strawberry season is 
on in New York. The Red Sox 
hope to Wade to the top of the division, but 
some swamp animals, namely Birds and 
Tigers, will halt their progress.
Today is the day I put my knowledge on 
the line. After reading all the pre-season jibberish, and waiting for all the spring train
ing changes and injuries, now Im ready. 
This week the National League, next week 
the American.
Here are the scouting reports, in their pre
dicted order of finish, beginning with the 
Eastern Division.
Montreal Expos All this talent, with a 
bad attitude. Never enough to get them 
through the September drive. Now Pete 
Rose arrives, driven by the sight of Ty 
Cobbs base hit record. Rose (.245 BA, 0 HR, 
45 RBI with Phillies) brings with him the 
winning attitude he gained from Philadel
phia and Cincinatti.
Add Andre Dawson (.299, 32, 113) and 
[ Tim Raines (.298, 11,71,90 SB), Gary Carter 
(.270,17, 79) and Tim Wallach (.270,19,70), 
and you have the most potent lineup in the 
division. Of course, that isnt hard. This is a 
division of weak teams.
The Expos have strength in the starting 
rotation with Steve Rogers (17-12, 3.23 
ERA), Bill Gullickson (17-12, 3.75) and 
Charlie Lea (16-11, 3.12). After that, who 
knows. Bryn Smith (6-11, 2.49) showed a 
good arm, but pitched in bad luck.
The two keys to this team will be Argenis
Salazar and Gary Carter. Salazar is a rookie 
shortstop who has beaten out Chris Speier for 
the starting job. Carter must return to his 
all-star status following an off year last year 
Watch rookie outfielder Mike Fuentes (.299, 
30, 91 at AAA Wichita).
Pittsburgh Pirates The best manager in 
baseball, Chuck Tanner, will take the divisons best pitching staff into the 1984 sea
son. But he will not win the division, 
because the rest of his team is mediocre at 
best.
Standouts include catcher Tony Pena 
(.301, 15, 70), Bill Madlock (.323, 12, 68, and 
a fourth batting title), and Johnny Ray 
(.283, 5, 53). The pitching staff includes lef
ties John Candelaria (15-8, 3.23), Larry 
McWilliams (15-8, 3.25), and newly 
acquired John Tudor (13-12, 4.09 with the 
Red Sox). Righthanders include youngsters 
Jose DeLeon (7-3, 2.83) and Lee Tunnell 
(11-6, 3.65) and veteran Rick Rhoden (13-13, 
3.09). The bullpen stars re-signed Kent 
Tekulve (7-5, 1.64, 18 saves), but will be hurt 
by the loss of lefty Rod Scurry, who this past 
weekend admitted to a drug dependency.
In order for the Pirates to win the division, 
Jason Thompson must have a banner sea
son, and one of the young outfielders, prob
ably Doug Frobel, must have a solid year 
with the bat. Otherwise it will be another 
almost year for the Pirates.
Philadelphia Phillies Oh, what man
ager Paul Owens would do for just one 
more starter. Cy Young award winner John 
Denny (19-6, 2.37) and Steve Carlton (15-6, 
3.11) team with Charlie Hudson (8-8, 3.35) 
to make a formidable 1-2-3 combination. 
After that, it gets pathetic. Marty Bystrom, 
Kevin Gross and rookie Tony Ghelfi will all 
be given shots at winning jobs. The bullpen 
is solid with lefty A1 Holland (8-4, 2.26, 25 
saves) and righty Bill Campbell (6-8, 4.49,8
PREGNANT?
And you didn't mmm to bt? 
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call
Birthright at621-1988
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
Ft Pregnancy Testing
For a confidential friend ca
UFEUNE
Downtown Pgh 562-0643
Beaver County 843-0605
Mon Valley 489-9020
Butler County 282-1200
SOPHOMORE OR JUNIOR YEAR ABROAD 
PARSONS SCHOOL OF DESIGN IN PARIS
Bachelor of Fine Arts programs in: 
Fine Arts Communication Design and Illustration 
Photography 
Interior Architecture and Design
For a catalog describing Parsons School of Design at 
The American College in Paris, return the attached 
coupon to:
Parsons School of Design 
Admissions Office 
66 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10011
Please forward information on the Sophomore or 
Junior Year in Paris to:
Name______
Address____
City/State/Zip.
saves with the Cubs).
The Phillies are looking for big things 
out of rookies Juan Samuel at second and 
Len Matuszek at first base. They are hoping 
Van Hayes (.265, 6, 32) will finally hit like 
everyone thinks he can. Glenn Wilson, 
acquired from the Tigers (.268, 11, 65) will 
be given the leftfield job left vacant by Gary 
Matthews trade to the Cubs. Mike Schmidt 
will have another great year. Last year 
Schmidt hit 40 home runs and people called 
it an off year. For the Phillies to win the 
division, the young players must come 
through big, and Ghelfi must emerge as a 
major league starting pitcher.
New York Mets In this division, any
thing can happen. Rookie-of-the-year Dar
ryl Strawberry (.257, 26, 74) comes into his 
first full season surrounded by his minor 
league teammates. But that may not be all 
that bad. The Mets Tidewater farm club 
won the Triple-A World Series last year.
Keith Hernandez (.297,12,63) and George 
Foster (.241, 28, 90) are the only veterans on 
this team that play regularly, and they must 
have good seasons. Foster must have a good 
year, because hes got three minor leaguers 
breathing down his neck for jobs. Jose 
Oquendo, the 20-year old shortstop, must 
hit higher than .230 to leave his brilliant 
glove in the field. This is the last year for 
Hubie Brooks (.251, 5,58) to hit like a major 
league third baseman.
But the fun of this team is the pitching. 
Mike Torrez (10-17, 4.37) will hopefully 
soon be traded. That leaves second-year man 
Wralt Terrell (8-8, 3.57), and rookies Ron 
Darling (1-3, 2.80 with Mets in September), 
Tim Leary (1-1, 3,38 with Mets) and 19-year 
old super-prospect Dwight Gooden. 
Gooden, who struck out 300 batters in 191 
innings of Class A ball, has made the start
ing rotauon. Leary will be in the bullpen
until a fifth starter is needed. They will be 
throwing to rookie catcher John Gibbons as 
soon as he comes off the disabled list.
These pitchers could be terrible, or great 
My prediction is that they will be good 
enough to beat out the pitcher-less Cubs and 
Cardinals.
St Louis Cardinals The Phillies made 
it to the World Series last year, and the team 
was totally renovated. The Cards finished 
fourth, and they have the same exact squad 
as last year. They have not one reliable start
ing pitcher. They have the best eight start
ing non-power hitters in the league. But, as 
with every team in this league, they have a 
chance to win the NL east, in what I am 
calling the batde of mediocrity.
continued on page 20
Photo courtesy Street and Smiths 
Most Valuable Player Dale Murphy.
Entries due by 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11 
5:00 pm
T-shirts may be left at 
he SKIRO INFO DESK
Each entry must I 
organization' name
designer's name

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanApril 10, 1984
NL Champ Phillies picked third while Cards fall
continued from page 19
Out of Joaaquin Andujar (6-16, 4.16), 
Bob Forsch (10-12, 4.28) amd Neil Allen 
(12-13, 4.00), the Cards will try to find an ace 
for the starting staff. Dave LaPoint (12-9) 
was effective, but thats about as good as 
LaPoint will get. Danny Cox, Kevin Hagen 
and Rick Ownbey, who have all had major 
league stints, will be given shots at the rota
tion. The bullpen will be led by Bruce Sutter 
(9-10, 4.23, 21 saves). Sutter must get back to 
his tremendous form of 1982 in order for the 
Cards to go anywhere.
Lonnie Smith (.321, 8, 45,43 SB), George 
Hendrick (.318, 18, 97) and Willie McGee 
(.286, 5, 75,39 SB) make up what is easily the 
best outfield in the eastern division. David 
Green (.284, 8, 69,34 SB) has been shifted to 
first base, and Andy VanSlyke (.262,8,38,21 
SB) will fight Ken Oberkfell (.293, 3, 38) at 
third base. The Cards DP combo of Ozzie 
Smith (.243, 3, 50, 34 SB) and Tommy Herr 
(.323,2,31) is the best in the national league. 
They can hit, these Cards, but their pitching 
is a joke.
If .Andujar or Forsch can win 18 games, 
the Cardinals should be much higher. Pre
diction is they wont.
Chicago CubsThe Cubbies traded pitch
ing, which they are very lacking of, for out
fielders, which they have an abundance of. 
Then they decided to bench Bill Buckner 
(.280, 16, 66), their best pure hitter. Now they 
are starting newly acquired Bob Dernier 
(.231, 1, 14, 25 SB) in centerfield instead of 
last years rookie star Mel Hall (.283, 17, 56). 
The Cubs did get a good hitter in Gary 
Matthews (.258, 10, 50), but they already 
have good hitting.
So the Cubs have even less starting pitch
ing than the Cards, and have a better team 
on the bench than in their starting lineup.
The Cubs did pick up Scott Sanderson 
from Montreal after a bad season (6-7, 
4.65),and he may help. Dick Ruthven (12-10 
4.10) and Chuck Rainey (14-13, 4.48) are the 
aces of the staff, though they would be 
fourth starters on most teams.
Ryne Sandberg is the Cubs best player, 
having won the gold glove at second base 
while batting .261 with 37 stolen bases. 
Keith Moreland (.302, 16, 70) had an impres
sive year with the bat. However, this team is 
going nowhere, because Lee Smith (4-10, 
1.65, 29 saves), cannot pitch nine innings 
every game.
The Western Division:
San Diego Padres - It is time for the un
seating of the Los Angeles Dodgers. And its 
ironic, because the Padres will be led by 
players from the perennial powers of base
ball, the Dodgers and Yankees.
The new third baseman is Graig Nettles 
(.266, 20, 75 with NY). The new relief ace is 
Rich Gossage (13-5, 2.27,22 saves with NY). 
The first baseman is former Dodger Steve 
Garvey (.294, 14, 59 in 388 at bats). These 
will be the leaders, the veterans who will 
take the Padres to the top. Add to them a 
very good corps of youngsters, and you have 
the potential for greatness.
Manager Dick Williams has moved reha
bilitated outfielder Alan Wiggins (.276, 0, 
22, 66 SB) to second base so he could get 
more power in his outfield. Along with 
rightfielder Tony Gwynn (.309, 1, 37), the 
Padres start two cant miss players in Kevin 
McReynolds (.377, 32, 116 in just 114 games 
with Las Vegas in AAA) and Carmelo Mar
tinez (31 HR for Iowa and six more with the 
Cubs). Catcher Terry Kennedy (.284, 17,98) 
and Garry Templeton at short round out a 
very solid lineup.
If the Padres stay healthy, and young
JOHNS.crmme
4523 Centre at Craig
621-6755
Hours:Mon.  Thurs. 5:00 p.m.  1:00 a.m. 
Fri. & Sat. 5:00 p.m.  2:00 a.m.Sunday 5 00 p.m.  12 midnight
FREE Delivery
Round Thin CrustRound Thick CrustAll Hoagies Toasted HotCALZONES
EXTRASLarge 
12 Cuts
Med. 
8 Cuts
Small 
4 Cuts
Med. Pan 
8 Cuts
Smalt Pan 
4 CutsHOAGIESWHOLE1/2EXTRASMed.Small
PLAIN4.713.632.214.532.91HOT SAUSAGE3.961.98REG.4.713.63
1 Topping5.914.532.915.433.61ITALIAN3.961.9815.914.53
2 Toppings7.115.433.616.334.31VEGETARIAN3.961.9827.115.43
3 Toppings8.316.334.317.235.01PIZZA SUB3.581.7938.316.33
4 Toppings9.517.235.018.135.71STEAK3.961.9849.517.23
Everything10.718.135.719.036.41MEAT BALL3.961.98PLUS TAX
EX1KAS Pepperom, Sausage, Mushrooms, Onions, Creen peppt-rs. Hot pors. An< hovics X ( 
DELIVERY RESTRICTED 
IN CERTAIN AREAS 
DOUGH MADE FRESH 
DAILY ON THE 
PREMISES.
NO PRE-BAKE SHELLS 
USED WE CUSTOM 
MAKE EVERY PIZZA & 
HOAGIE TO YOUR 
LIKING.
NO MINIMUM 
ORDER 
REQUIRED
FOR FREE DELIVERY
CALZONES 
REGULAR (4 -extras) 
COMES WITH 
HAM, SALAMI, 
PEPPERONI, CHEESE 
& SAUCE 
OR
YOU CAN CREATE 
YOUR OWN
pSqq gh. jWHOLE HOAGIE I
$325
PLUS TAX
ONE COUPON PfR ORDER. NOT VALID WITH ANY 
OTHER OFFER.
OOOO ON DILI VERY. MUST ACKNOWLEDGE. WHIN PLACING 
ORDER (OFFER EXPIRES ~ ft y
I rr rr rr rr
~ LARGE 1PIZZAw297
PRICE IS FOR PLAIN PIZZA. ALL TOPPINGS ARE EX TRA ONE COUPON PER ORDER. NOT VALID WITH 1 
ANY OTHER OFFER.
GOOD ON DELIVERY ONLY. MUST ACKNOWLEDGE WHEN
ING ORDER (OFFER EXPIRES I
pitchers such as Eric Show (15-12) and Dave 
Dravecky (14-10) continue their winning 
ways, San Diego should win its first division 
title.
Los Angeles Dodgers - Starting pitching 
galore. Fernando Valenzuela had the second 
highest ERA on the staff, next to Burt Hooton. Any or all of five pitchers could win 20 
games for the Dodgers. But unless another 
pitcher gets 20 saves, the Dodgers will not 
win the division.
The Dodgers are weak at first, short, third 
catcher, and in the bullpen. Greg Brock had 
a poor rookie year (.224, 20, 66). Bill Russel]
(.246,1,30) and Dave Anderson (.165,1,2)do 
not make a very good shortstop combo 
Superstar Pedro Guerrero (.298, 32, 103, 
SB) will move to right, leaving German Rivera (.328, 24, 103 at Albuquerque) to fill the 
hole at third base. The bullpen has Tom 
Niedenfuer (8-3, 1.90, 11 saves) and Carlos 
Diaz (3-1, 2.05, 2 saves with the Mets), but 
neither one of them has been the stopper 
before. Catching sees Mike Scioscia and 
Steve Yeager returning from injuries, while 
Jack Fimple took over late last year. Unless 
Scioscia comes back strong, this is a very 
serious problem spot.
The loss of Dusty Baker and Steve Howe 
will greatly affect this team, so much so that 
they may drop to third.
Houston Astros - Multiple choice ques
tion: Dickie Thon is a) a comic strip, b) a 
Las Vegas comedian, c)the best shortstop in 
the National League, or d) the name of the | 
cute stuffed animal you saw. If you ans
wered c, you were right. Thon (.286,20,79, 
34 SB) combined with rookie Bill Doran 
(.271, 8, 39) to create the best young DP 
combo in the game. The Astros also have 
Jose Cruz (.318, 14, 92, 30 SB) and Ray 
Knight (.304, 9, 780). Jerry Mumphrey will 
start in center after hitting .336 with the j 
Astros in 44 games last season.
Catching is a problem, but the pitching is I 
solid. Nolan Ryan (14-9, 2.98) and Joe 
Niekro (15-14, 3.48) lead a staff including 
Mike Madden (9-5, 3.14) and Bob Knepper 
(6-13, 3.19). The bullpen is very strong,] 
including all-star Bill Dawley (6-6, 2.82, M 
saves) and lefty Frank DiPino (3-4, 2.65,! 
saves), along with Joe Sambito, who hasn't | 
pitched in 18 months, and Dave Smith (3-1 
3.10, 6 saves).
This team could win the division, 
everyone, especially catcher Alan Ashby, 
must play over their head.
Atlanta Braves - Yeah, OK, they can hit I 
But thats about it. Show me a hitting team 
with no pitching, and Ill show you the | 
continued on page 22
VD Testing
Affordable 8c Confidential 
EVENING Hour Services 
(formerly the Pgh. Free Clinic) 
call 661-5424
aliegheny 
reproductive 
health 
center
abortion 
menstrual extraction
free pregnancy testing 
vd and contraceptive care
all services confidential
121 s. highland ave., 
Pittsburgh 
363-1107

---------------------------------------------------

ROBONIC TIC-TOCCERS
Dont MissKingsey Robonic
Tic-Toccers
and theirBreak Dancing 84
demonstration
at the Spring Carnival Opening Ceremonies
Thursday;, April 12 
5:00 p.m. at the 
Midway Entrance
Dont let the little guys fool you!
Youve tried the rest ... Now try the BEST!
CAPRIPIZZA
For FRIENDLY 
service and 
DELICIOUS food
We use TRUE 
MOZARELLA cheese
 DO OTHERS?
Mon. - Sat. 5-2 a.m. 
Sundays 3 - 2 a.m.
LARqE 10 CUT 
PZZA ONly
+ TAX
$2.47
Pius 2 FREE liters of Pepsi 
FREE delivery 7 days a week
Eat in or order out.
This price for lunch/dinner
3415 Forbes Ave., Oaklandtele: 68 ! -2202, 2203

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanApril 10, 1984
L.A. weak in key spots; Murphy best in baseball
continued from page 20
fourth place team in the division. Len 
Barker is pitching as if washed up, and Pete 
Falcone is not the answer. Craig McMurtry 
is the ace (15-9, 3.08), but he cant pitch every 
game. Who knows about Pascual Perez, and 
what the commissioner will do to him even 
if he does get out of jail in the Dominican. 
He cannot be counted on.
The bullpen is strong with Steve Bedrosian (9-10, 3.60, 19 saves), Terry Forster (3-2, 
2.16, 13 saves) and Gene Garber (4-5,4.60,9 
saves).
But the hitting is awesome. MVP Dale 
Murphy (.302, 36, 121, 30 SB) is the best 
player in baseball and Bob Homer could 
out-do Murphy if he stays healthy. Homer
(.303, 20, 68) missed two months with a 
broken wrist. Chris Chambliss (.280, 20, 78) 
and Bob Watson (.309,6,37) will combine at 
first, and Claudell Washington (.278, 9, 44, 
31 SB) will play right.
However, with all that hitting, they 
should trade for some desperately needed 
pitching.
Cinrinatti Reds - This team is better than 
the Giants. Thats about it. Only one thing 
is certain in this division: the Giants and 
Reds will be the last two teams. The Reds 
have the best righthanded pitcher in the NL 
in Mario Soto (17-13, 2.70, 242 strikeouts). 
Thats about it. Free agent Dave Parker 
(.279, 12, 69) may return to superstar status, 
but that wont help all that much.
Dave Concepcion (.233, 1, 47) is too old. 
Nick Esasky (.265,12, 46) must prove he can 
hit a curveball. Dann Bilardello (.238,9, 38) 
is no Johnnie Bench, but who is? Eddie 
Milner is OK in center, Gary Redus decent 
in left, Ron Oester pretty good at second. 
Blah. Boring. No pizazz. So they got a bor
ing, no pizazz manager in Vem Rapp.
Maybe next year. Probably not.
San Francisco Giants - Jack Clark hates S. 
F. so much that his production dropped 
one-third last year. Every year S. F. says they 
will trade him, but they never do. A1 Oliver 
will help, but they will hurt badly from the 
loss of Darrell Evans (30 HRs).
Chili Davis (.233, 11, 59) had a horrible 
year. Joel Youngblood (.292, 17, 53) will be
the new third baseman, and that will help 
the team.
Atlee Hammaker (10-9, 2.25), Bill Laskey 
(13-10, 4.19) and Mike Krukow (11-11, 3.95) 
must pitch well, and Greg Minton (7-u 
3.54,22 saves) and Gary Lavelle (74,2.59,20 
saves) must combine again for at least forty 
saves.
Manny Trillo and Oliver will help a lot 
but not enough.
Outlook - any of ten teams could make 
the playoffs, but the prediction here is that 
the Padres will defeat the Expos and play in 
the 1984 World Series. And Rich Gossage 
and Graig Nettles will publicly laugh in 
George, Steinbrenners face.
- American League preview next week.Distance corps key to victory in PAC Relays
By DAVE LAFYATIS
Tartan Staffurriter
The Camegie-Mellon track team has 
made it clear to the entire Presidents 
Athletic Conference that they will be a force 
to be reckoned with again this year. Satur
day afternoon at Case Western Reserve Uni
versity, the Tartans ran away with the PAC 
Relay championship for the sixth consecu
tive year. The Tartans scored 91 points in 
the 14-event meet, outdistancing second
place CWRU by 10 and third place Allegh
eny by 24 points.
The Tartans had to overcome some severe 
misfortune to take the title. Early in the 
championships, during the sprint medley, 
lightning struck the Tartans as freshman 
sprinter Jeff Kaplan pulled a hamstring. 
This injury caused a two-prong problem for 
CMU. First, the Tartans lost 10 points that 
they would have received for winning the 
event (they were in first place at the time of
the injury ). Even more importantly, how
ever, was the fact that Kaplan had to be 
replaced in the other relays he was scheduled 
for.
After that, things started looking up for 
the Tartans, as their vaunted distance corps 
took over. Led by Mike Short, CMU won the 
Distance Medley, the 4-mile relay and the 
2-mile relay. Short anchored both the 4-mile 
relay and the Distance medley, and ran the 
third leg of the 2-mile relay.
Coach Gary Meckley singled out a few of 
the cindermen who gave especially note
worthy performances/'Bob Krause ran an 
excellent half mile in the two mile relay and 
also did well in the shuttle hurdles. Jim 
Rogers participated in the long jump, triple 
jump, shotput, and high jump, and helped 
CMU to a third place finish in all of these 
events. Also, Gary Marchianna ran a good 
leg in the 440 relay, and an excellent quarter 
mile of 51 seconds in the mile relay.
STUDY ABROAD
Pritif) >tu>ie0
in Canterbury, England
Demanding tutorial instruction by British uni
versity faculty. Institute for American Universities, 
73 Castle St., Canterbury CT1 2QD
Entropy has 
Spring Carnival Fever
Help us to celebrate Spring 
Carnival by registering to 
win free soda and candy
Did you ever consider serving as a 
priest?
...a life style of 
commitment and 
self fulfillment?
Call:
Father Rudolph Silvers
Vocations Office
412/456-3070 
or write:
Catholic Diocese of Pittsburgh111 Boulevard of the Allies. Pittsburgh. PA 1 5222
All Soda .38/can
Contest runs Thursday-Saturday
Hours:
Thursday, April 12: 9-10 
Friday, April 13: 11-9 
Saturday, April 14: 11-9
We now carry Haagen Das ice cream
STUDY
ARTIN THE
SOUTH OFFRANCEATLACOSTESCHOOL OF THE ARTS IN FRANCE 
SPONSORED BY 
THE CLEVELAND INSTITUTE 
OF ART
Credit courses in sculpture, 
stone carving, painting,
Krint making, drawing, 
otography, French, art 
history, poetry 
Summer Term:
June 21 to August 2 
Fall Semester:
Sept 6 to Dec. IP 
For illustrated brochure:
Foreign Study/LACOSTE 
Cleveland Institute of Art 
11141 East Boulevard 
Cleveland, Ohio 4410f>
(212)229-0038

---------------------------------------------------

rmi\\
dAN kAIVlilN 
STROlliNq MIME
on Edi iviidwAy
fRdAyr ApRll 1 }
5:00 p.M.
you ARE CORPIALL/ 1NV1TEV TO JOIN US FOR PASSOVER
ApnlL 16-24
SEDERS: Monday, April 16 and Tuesday, April 17
Oakland Jewish Community Center - 315 S. Bellefield
Cost: $6.25 for students, $7.50 non students 
$3.25 for children under 12
Reservations must be made by 12 noon on Thursday, April 12
INDIVIDUAL MEALS: may be purchased, but reservations are required.
Cost: $2.65 for lunches - students 
Cost for dinners: $4.75 - students
FULL PASSOVER CONTRACTS may be purchased: $40.00 for the week.
PASSOVER KITS are available in the Hillel office for students 
who would like.to find out more about the holiday af Passover. 
There are also instructions on "how to make your own Seder."
HOME HOSPITALITY is available for students who are interested. 
A list is available in the Hillel office. Please specify if 
you prefer an Orthodox, Conservative or Reform Seder.
PLEASE CALL THE HILLEL OFFICE FOR RESERVATIONS OR MORE INFORMATION
621-8875
lb( gbf4l(gl orgle7H( Q(lO((7 )fF4 (73r7((4r73 o(34(( e7o ye7e3(y(7l HfF2o Q( fuHugu
If O.C.S. (Army Officer 
Candidate School) looks tangential 
at first, look again. Look at it from 
managements point of view.
Management wants engineering 
skill plus leadership ability in the 
people it moves up the ladder.
O.C.S. is a great place to 
get started on leadership. It is a 14' 
week challenge to your mental 
and physical toughness. And if you 
pass the tests, you will come out 
strong, sure and in great shape  
a commissioned officer in the 
Army, ready to exercise the leader
ship that civilian companies put such a premium on.
If you are about to get your degree in engineering, the O.C.S. chal
lenge could be your best next step.
To find out more about O.C.S., call the Commanding Officer in 
your area:
e4y)uQ( e22 )fF He7 Q(u

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Administration wisely allows freedom
President Francois Mitterrandsvisit to CMU the fence red, white and blue, all writing would been banned, and Amherst is considering si^
could have ended in disaster. Thanks to some be left untouched, averting a major confron- ilar action. Alcohol rules have been strictly
smart thinking and sensidvity on the behalf of tation. ... enforced, and money has been withheld from
administration, a major protest was averted. Legally, administradon had full an clear student publications while faculty adviser*
The nieht before Mitterrands anival a ^ T T* ^ ^ have had morc inPut result has beeg oetoie * i tterrana s arrival, a wanted. Admimstraon has in fact, exerased mrrease in alrnhol mn^imnunn anH jgroup of students painted the fence with |hi 11 riht ,wice in recent mst ^5 lime increase in alcohol consumpon and studentTprhnnlncrv. k nor rhp wdnnr of th*> woriri- ^ rignt twice in recent past, inis ame, newspapers that cause universities ljLlechnology is not the saviour of the world, however, they wisely decided to observe tradi- nonesne to have annlirations forstop playing God.  When the painters found tl- i Traditional lv the fence is a uquesne to have applications tor admissionout administration nlanned ro nainr over thp Traditionally, the fence is a tQ ^ wlthdrawn and over $15 million in conout aammistrauon planned to paint over the fomm for student opinion that can only be mhi.rion m he lost
fence, they assembled in front of it, yelling for rainted after sunset and hefore sunrise tnbutions to be lost.the entire ramnns mmmnniiv ro ioin them in Pointed after sunset and before su se. In near uture CMU administration wilthe enure campus community to join them in It is that ^ of respect> with a few excep. freedom related cW
protesung such action. Some facuons even  that results in relatively few vandalism have to make student freedom related decisions
planned to employ physical means to prevent at CMU A restriction from Kresge Faculty Dinin
Physical Plant from covering their message ? ? f ^ ^ problems at CMU. Room, dry rush, and enforcement of alcoholrn\sicai riant trom covering Uieir message. fairly free and relavely unrestncted society rnw Ronefnllv a nrohlem cni,-
Instead, Dean of Student Affairs Braden seldom finds cause to retel pohcy rules. Hopefully a problem-solwngT47 . , ,  .  . 5*iuoiu 11I1U5 uiusc IU oriented university like CMU will continue toWalter reached a compromise with the paint- Other schools take a different viewpoint. u  u  i .u u . e r rTfr*L  i ,,  , n r , f .. ^ ^ 11 U be wise enough to make the best decisionsers. If Physical Plant could paint the pillars of______Receny fratermues at Colby College have
Cyert speaksMitterrand visit translates to better diploma
By Richard M. Cyert hands, and he believes that you have chosen At this time, the administration and the years, we will be setting a new record for
I want to thank the student body for the wisely in coming to Camegie-Mellon to pre- trustees are discussing a fund drive to applications. The quality of students is
courtesy and support they extended to our pare for your future. improve capital facilities on the campus for excellent, and there is significant geographiguest, President Francois Mitterrand of His visit was a great honor for Carnegie- students and faculty. There is general agree- cal diversity.
France, on March 27. The enthusiasm with Mellon and is further evidence of the inter- ment that a recreational center is important I am pleased with the response that Ihave
which you greeted President national recognition that our university is for the ambiance of the campus. We also been getting from you to my office hours;
Mitterrand was delightful, getting. France sees Camegie-Mellon and need many other additions to our capital however, there is still time for additional
Those of you who were there our work as important for the world. facilities, including improvements to Skibo appointments. I enjoy talking with you,
saw the enthusiasm with which From your standpoint, this recognition and classrooms. Over the next three years, even though you have no specific problems,
he responded. He was exhilarated from the means that your degree is increasingly valu- we plan to raise funds from the outside to I invite you just to have a get-acquainted
visit and particularly from his association able. As a result of such recognition, more accomplish a number of improvements and meedng with me.
with you. It was clear when he began shak- firms recruit here and hire our graduates, to build an excellent recreational facility* In addition, I held a meeting in Donna
ing hands with you on the patio and on the We will continue to work to improve both Our freshmen applications are continu- Hall with a group of residents there. I
Cut, that he loved seeing you. He realizes the education that we give and our national ing to come in at a strong pace. This year, as such meetings and get a great deal from
that a lot of what this world will be is in your and intemadonal reputation. has been true of eleven of the last twelve them. Because of them, I have a much better
1/ _ feeling for the concerns on your minds and
/ * get a renewed vigor to make the desiredEvery vote counts in democracy
By Stuart Shapiro In terms of sheer numbers, it is true that a cance than would be the case if that individ- phone questions into the station to me. On
I know someone who is a rational, intelli- margin of victory greater than a single vote ual was just one small part of a fragmented different occasions, I hope to have other
gent individual. I also know that she doesnt renders any one of those votes unnecessary, mass. When a part of a collective whole is members of the administration there.
plan to vote. Likewise, a margin of loss greater than a missing, its absence affects the shape and I want to thank you for your suggestions
I have a tdeal fdiffi 1 T single vote renders any one uncast vote nature of whats left. that I have heard at the student luncheons
Ithcsc two fact Tl,yre^?k^ l?.g irrelevant. So on the face of it, one is left with Every decision not to vote affects the and at the meedngs during my office hours
fas utterl incom tibie NeveT the conclusion that most of the tme ones nature of a democracy. Every vote that could I assure you that we are working hard to
! . J1 ? mcon*Patl _ ^er Qwn yote js -n fact superfiuous. be cast and is not renders the democratic make Camegie-Mellon the greatest univer-i theless, facts are facts. Therefore,  . , , , , ,   j , .u- . t .u .fat the risk of soundin like a It stnkes me that just the possibility that a process a httle less legitimate and a litue sity m this country and that your
high school civics teacher (shuckier) I wiH s^nSle vote could prove decisive (it has hap- more meaningless. Regardless of whether a tions are helpful in enabling us to reach that
Qt(omr4t _ i  1 W pened) is sufficient grounds for voting. But particular vote affects the outcome of an goal,attempt to explain this odd circumstance. , ,the rationale for voting goes beyond that. It election, it nevertheless counts. Richard Cyert. is president of CamtM
Her explanation is a time honored orie  is not simply a matter of numbers. Whos to say which particular vote is the Meuon jjniversity and, writes a monthly
that her vote doesnt count. Despite my total Democracy is not an amalgamadon of deciding one? There is no way to attribute a column for The Tartan
rejection of this notion, however, I can individual acts. Rather, it is a collective victory or a loss to any one vote. It is only ________________________________________
understand how she came to that activity. As a result, an individuals decision when taken together that votes constitute a _________________^
conclusion. not to participate has much greater signifi- continued on page26 I IIOLabor laws limit worker freedom Editor in Chief.....................................................
By Dan Tobias never had the slightest grievance against ups. But such a future may be in jeopardy .............................Karen Tylak
These days, there has been much concern their employer. The suit against the govern- if the government does not change its mind News Editor ................Neil J Greenblun1
over unemployment. There is pressure on ment which instigated this action was filed about this decision. But besides all these Features Editor......................Neal W Johnston
the government to do something about by the International Ladies Garment practical arguments, I regard this ban on Entertainment Editor Mark I/'ine
this pressing problem, and many of these Workers Union (You know, the Look for home knitting for profit to be a basic infrin- Sports Editor................... Christopher D
proposals involve sweeping the union label people). This kind of gement on the right of people to enter in photography Editor.........................Mike Pilew^
interventions in many areas, action should puncture any idea you might voluntary relationships with others for their Production Manager.......................Maria
Jjr However, a fact that is seldom have had that unions are interested in the mutual benefit, if nobody else is directly Typesetting Manager.......................Patti Car
menuoned is that the govern- welfare of workers in general; they are only _________ continued on page 26 Contributing Editors......................
ment is in fact the cause of much if not all of out to preserve their control over all workers I'l'l/'Yt"! T^/^1 "| g^\J Pauhn<. ^
the unemployment, through their various in their field, and are resentful of anybody J-lvf J. J. JL VriAV'j Asst Pro.............................................. . . T, . J f uu X Asst Ent. Editor............................Adam Ham1other intervenuons. The government has in who is doing iust fine without them. r,. . , . . ... , .______  __ c^.Boat,  , ,, .  , r , ... . Editorials appear at the beginning of the opinion Asst Sports Editor.............................Scott v*numerous areas made it illegal to work! I am especially scared of the ramifications ^Ion and are the offkial opinion of The Tar- a**. Business Manager.....................Bonnie M
Here are a few examples. of this ruling for anyone who works at ^ Editorial Board. Production Staff: David Fields, Elena Gialai#
For a long time, some women in Vermont home, rhere are plenty of people in occupa- Columns are the opinions of individual authors Andrew Q^ali, Stephen Volan.
had been making money by knitdngin their tions ranging from computer programmers who are usually on The Iartan staff, but the________________________________________
homes for a clothing company. However, to comic-book artists who do a major por- opinions are not necessarily those of The Tartan @ ,984 by The Tartan Editon
the government recently ruled that this sort tion of their work in their homes, and the ^^^the'Editor are opinions of individual resen,es the right lo withho,d from Publia,u!j5
of homework" violates the Fair Labor government has now established its right to authotswho are usually numbers of the Univer- Tmmr^Tolfu^ S*
Standards Act of 1938. Thus, the women are ban such exploitation of workers. Some sity comrnunity. A letter intended for publication (4,2) bl2] ,2 24 hour phone (412) 578.2i 13.
now out of work, since it would be impracti- visionaries have even suggested that in the mus be signed and include the writers address address. ^ ,7 Park pittsburgh PA
cal few them to go all the way to the factory, future offices will be obsolete, as most busi- and phone number for verification. Names will Funded by the Activities Fee.
which is a long distance from their homes, ness will be accomplished at home through be withheld upon request. The I artan reserves All rights reserved,
every day to do the same work. The women computers and telecommunications link- the right to condense or reject any letter.------------------------------------------------

---------------------------------------------------

April 10, 1984The TartanPage 25
fitters:oore apologizes for space
itor:The visit of French President Francois 
itterrand was indeed a once-in-a-lifetime 
Onor for Camegie-Mellon. When the head 
r a foreign nation thinks enough of a single 
ucational institution to step on its camus the entire university should feel 
-mplimented.
Unfortunately, the first time you expeence an event like this one, you can expect 
me problems to develop. Our most 
vious problem was in ticket availability 
d distribution. We anticipated incorrectly 
e number of people who could attend, 
rimarily because our original figures were 
sed on past attendances in the Ballroom, 
e Pittsburgh fire marshal and secret serce were particularly concerned about 
fety for this event, and limited the number 
seats in the room to 600. In fact, they 
unted every chair at 5 pm on the day of the 
nt and removed several.
Because of the short notice of his arrival, 
were forced to print and distribute tickets 
ore we had an accurate count on these 
mbers.
As a result, some people who had tickets 
Id not get into the ballroom to see the
live presentation. More people were invited 
by our French intermediaries and more indi
viduals accompanied the French President 
tlian we originally had expected. In addi
tion, our media requests to attend seemed to 
grow by the hour until more than 120 Uni
ted States and foreign media representatives 
asked for credentials. Some members of the 
late-arriving French and U.S. press did not 
get seats in the ballroom.
Of course these explanations are not con
solations to those who held general' seating 
tickets, but were not able to get seats in the 
ballroom. Nor are our efforts to provide 
closed-circuit telecasts in the Wherrett 
Room, in the Skibo Gray Matter, or in the 
Tartan Grill. We apologize to these people, 
and hope you understand that we tried to 
work under our restrictions as best and as 
fairly as possible.
In general, I believe the French Presi
dents visit was a successful one and I antici
pate that there will be many more similar 
honors for CMU as a result.
Sincerely,
R. Keith Moore 
Vice President
cpoR> 
"THE SoU PRPoS fjoiJ_ COMMERCIA*-;
the Nt>rf-poL ^_KjA<sry oF uR 
ST"*T "" ike op  wce/or oF
WR,r^S(l/W^5SlrV At
sahndvdl-) Arfx>
gl,
r
atrat ad in bad taste, offensive to Jews says Rosenblum
ton
The Hymies for Jackson ad in last 
eeks Natrat was more than a little offenve. I dont expect very much in the way of 
gh standards and good quality humor in 
s annual rag, but venturing into the sewof racism and anti-Semitism is just going 
far.
Granted that Jackson did a bad thing by 
using such language, it should nevertheless 
be recognized that he apologized and that 
there are many Jews who have voted for him 
and who intend to vote for him, myself 
among them, because we believe that he 
alone of the candidates is projecting a pro
gram of change that would really move this
onvict requests letters
iton
I am writing this letter with the sincere 
pe that I may correspond with students
o would and willing and interested in 
siting someone in dire need of
rrespondence.
My name is A1 and I am an inmate incar
ted in the Adirondack Correctional 
cility located in New York. I am 26 years 
\ witty, intelligent and sensitive, white, 
, 205 pounds with brown hair, bluen eyes and most of all very lonely. I 
uld be very happy to share my life with 
yone willing to write to me.
At the moment I am indingent and can 
t afford the cost of having my plea for 
despondence printed in your paper. I
would truly appreciate your help in having 
my plea printed for me.
As mentioned on the preceding page I am 
very lonely and in need of correspondence. I 
would deeply appreciate having the oppor
tunity to correspond with anyone willing to 
write. It would truly help me through this 
intolerable period of my life being 
incarcerated.
I wish to thank you in advance for your 
time and consideration taken on my behalf.
Sincerely yours,
A1 Price 
No. 83A0399 
P.O. Box 110 
Ray Brook, N.Y. 12977
country in the direction of justice and peace.
The Natrat, by perpetuating this insult, 
has offended Jews, particularly Jews who 
are supporting Jesse Jackson and who have 
already been through the tough decision to 
support him despite his comment. It has 
also insulted blade people by maintaining a 
double standard, going after a small sin by 
the first black candidate to make a serious 
major party bid for the presidency in U.S. 
history while not even beginning to satirize 
the empty fighting over trivia by his two 
opponents that is supposed to pass for
debate on policy.
This is no laughing matter.
Daniel M. Rosenblum 
Ph.D. candidate, SUPA
Promoting racism was the last thing the 
editor had in mind in printing the Hymies 
For Jackson ad. If that was the impression 
left, the editor sincerely apologizes. How
ever, it should be observed that the idea came 
from one of the several Jewish editors on 
The Tartan. Thank you for your concern.
 Editor.Flowers in memory of Barrett
Editor:
In memory of Marybeth Barrett, our 
friend and classmate, who passed away in 
the Fall of 1983, 6,000 crocuses have been 
planted on the front lawn of Fine Arts Build
ing. They are planted in a 20 foot wide band 
extending from the sidewalk in front of 
Hunt Library, across the field, and ending at
the CFA Faculty parking lot. The flowers 
are beginning to bloom. In order to prevent 
damage to the bed, we ask that everyone 
avoid walking in this area.
Thank you very much,
Students from the 
Department of ArchitectureDemocrats are all pro-choice
bortion letters tiring
ton
tired of reading personal and emonal opinions regarding abortion. In the 
ch 13th Tartan, columnist Michael 
f whines to the reader about dead childfeing found in piles of garbage. He 
orms us that people and even marriages 
y be found in the trash heap. Very astute.
Finally, we are told, at the very bottom of the 
pile we will find faith and belief in God. If 
Mr. Hoff gets a kick out of analyzing gar
bage, so be it. If he looks through mine, on 
the very bottom hell only find a copy of The 
Tartan. .
Michael Alex 
Dept of Electrical Engineering
etters provide good forum
ton
^cause Ive been told that arguing about
rtlon is as useful and as sensible as beata dead horse, I will not defend my Pro^ce letter of some several issues ago. Nor 
criticize the seemingly sound letter
tl(n by F.T. and T.T. (mostly becauseelr 1 #last paragraph, which didnt make 
Uch sense to me the first dozen or so times I 
finally read not unlike a threat on
So^) ^aU serious). 
mt people even think the abortion 
ment detracts from the quality of The
Tartan. I disagree. I, for one, like reading 
The Tartan for its assortment of cold, hard 
facts to warm, soft editorials and (funny?) 
cartoons. I look forward to Tuesdays when I 
can enrich/educate myself away from classwork, enjoying the news of the real world.
Since I like a good argument now and 
then, I might simply argue in private with 
F.T. and T.T. on whatever topic ails me. 
Sorry to have bothered you.
Arnold Kamis 
Applied Math/CS 86
Editor
After seeing all those posters put up 
around campus advertising Gary Harts 
visit to Pittsburgh, and noting all the pub
licity that Hart, Jackson and Mondale have 
gotten lately, I feel compelled to draw the 
campus attention to a terriblebut often 
downplayedfact about these three politi
cians: Mondale, Hart, and Jackson actively 
support abortion-on-demand.
Before you jump off the bridge accusing 
me of being a single-issue fanatic, 
remember that there are other single issues 
upon which we disqualify candidates for 
public office. Take, for instance, radsn) If 
you had the perfect politicianperfect in 
every way, except that he was a racistwho 
could vote for him? Likewise, given the fact
that neither Jackson nor Hart nor Mondale 
will speak out against abortion, and the fact 
that they tolerate it, even advocate it, and the 
fact that abortion is the killing of a defense
less, pre-natal, human child,who can vote 
for them?
But, you say, who then can I, a Demo
crat, vote for? All voters, both now in the 
primaries and later in the general election, 
have a choice. The only major candidate for 
the Presidency who is for the right-to-life of 
all human beings is Ronald Reagan. 
Republicans can vote for him directly in the 
primaries; Democrats can vote for him as a 
write-in candidate. The choice is there. 
Make the choice for life.
Andrew Sicree
EE major issues challenge
Editor
Challenge  on behalf of the upper class 
electrical engineers I would like to formally 
challenge the students at CMU to compete 
in the tug-o-war contest. In the past the 
T-O-W has been a little noticed event. Last 
year things changed when a team of E.E.s
captured the title. This year I would like to 
see some theme teams take us on. Possihl  
team from H&SS-or CFA could beat us 1 * 1 ! 
don't think so. So come on out, it will t* . 
lot of fun, especially for us.
Mark Thomas 
(Class of 84)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26The TartanApril 10, 1984
Laws restrict willing laborers from working at home
.there is no limousine service from Newark 
Airport to upstate New York, since to oper
ate such service across a state line requires a 
federal permit, which is difficult and expen
sive to obtain.
The above examples reveal specific areas 
in which many people could be gainfully 
employed if only the government would let 
them. However many other government 
actions cut off job opportunities across the 
entire spectrum. For example, the existence 
of minimum wage laws makes it a crime to 
employ somebody at $3.00 an hour. How
ever, it does not guarantee anybody a job at 
the higher minimum wage. Thus, people 
who are not experienced enough to do work 
worth more than this amount are forced out 
of work. If they were allowed to be employed
at subminimum wages, they would be ab| 
to gain experience which would allow ther 
to eventually move up to better-paying j0i 
but as the laws presently stand, the botton 
rung of the ladder is chopped off, leavjn 
them no place to go.
The examples I have cited here only 
barely scratch the surface of the many things 
the government has done to make it harder 
to get a job. I am confident that if all these 
restrictions are removed, unemploymfn| 
would virtually vanish. Further intervention to stop unemployment will only 
make things worse. Thus, the Libertarian 
solution to unemployment is to step back 
and allow people to work.
Dan Tobias is a sophomore in Mathani 
is a columnist for The Tartan.
number of taxicabs is severely limited by 
law. Buses within a city are run by govern
ment monopolies, and intercity buses are 
heavily regulated. All this stops an entrepre
neur from buying cars, vans, or buses and 
starting a transportation service on a shoe
string, which would benefit commuters and 
travelers, and provide people with jobs run
ning the service. On some routes, which 
should be lucrative, even large corporations 
are daunted by the amount of bureaucracy 
needed to establish service. For .examplecontinued from page 24
harmed. I view this ruling to be a step, how
ever slight, in the direction of 
totalitarianism.
Many other examples abound of how 
government has outlawed work. The trans
portation business is another. If you have 
ever waited endless periods of time for a bus 
or a taxicab, you probably wish more people 
could get into that business. But the govern
ment has blocked this by putting restrictive 
laws in place. In most major cities the
IT DOESN 'T m UR 
m GOT LANE- KIRKMMD of THE AFL' CIO...
Qolkmvth Fi n ow,
AKt) 2HANKER0F 
1flE TACHRS.
EVE tHE HfftD Of 
THE MINE WORtfRS.THE 
MACHINISTS AND EVEN 
fflf ftElVSPAPER 
df)i
V -X American vote counts
continued from page 24
decision. It seems rather egotistical to 
demand that ones own vote be the deciding 
factor before one is willing to offer it.
By definition, every vote counts. To claim 
otherwise is to deny the legitimacy of the 
democratic process. Of course, there are peo
ple who are quite willing to deny that that 
process does have any legitimacy. But that is 
another argument altogether. Anyone who 
accepts the idea of democratic government 
(i.e., representative democracy) has lost any 
basis for contending that his or her vote 
doesnt count.
My friend claims that even if the above 
argument holds water, her vote is a 
negligible part of the collective vote and 
thus the effect of its absence is 
correspondingly small. But what if her one
vote could change the outcome? Regardless 
of what the pre-election opinion polls say, 
shell never know for sure until its too late 
Moreover, to make a decision to vote 
contingent on the results of an opinion pol 
is to, in effect, surrender ones franchise to 
statistical exercisehardly what the framei 
had in mind.
The bottom line is that if she profess 
any belief at all in the principles o 
democratic government, then whether sht 
recognizes it or not, she has alread] 
conceded that her vote must count. Itisai 
inescapable concomitant of the democrat# 
process.
Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student n 
applied history and is a columnist for Thi 
Tartan.
MoW ftfcHT lfeHow MANY VoftS TOES
w NewNesepar
V-W Jf
CPS
'0\ COME 
LE5KATE THE 
Ife 5PKINQ
Are You Good Enough Tb Join The BesT InThe Nuclear Reid?
The Navy operates the most advanced nuclear equipment in the world 
Including more than half the nuclear reactors in .
America. The men who maintain and operate those I j4
reactors have to be the best. That's why o'ficers I
in the Nuclear Navy get the most extensive and
sophisticated training in the world. RF 
College juniors and seniors who qualify 
for the program can earn over S^OO a 
month while still in school
After graduation, as a Navy officer. tj
you receive a year of graduate-level \-
training unavailable anywhere else at ^
any price. You become a highly trained ^
member of an elite group with vital re- -
sponsibilities and growing career potential.
To qualify, you must be a U.S. citizen between 19 and 27 years of age, 
working toward or have earned a bachelor's or master's degree. You must 
also have completed a minimum of one year each of calculus and calculusbased physics with a ~B" average or better.
You can submit an application as soon as you've completed your sophomore 
year in college. If you think you're good enough to join the best in the nuclear 
field, find out Call the Naval Management Programs Office for full information.
Toll-Free 1-800-242-3736 
On Campus April 10
Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast.
register for the 
EASTER CANDY GIVEAWAY
drawing: friday, aprii AM
CMU BOOKSTORE

---------------------------------------------------

3jh h9.h Great X 
Look
Natural, Distinctive and Totally YOU! 
 
Free
Walk-In Tutoring Service
Every Mon., Tues., Wed., Thur.
7 p.m.10 p.m.
WritingBaker 229B
CalculusPorter 225C
ChemistryBaker 245
PhysicsPorter 226B
H&SS MathPorter 226C
Phil. MethodsBaker 235A
German 6:30-9:30 TTh Porter 226A
Sponsored by Counseling & Student Development
Center, Division of Student Affairs
HvcxssnrExpccnmans
NO
APPOINTMENT
NECESSARY
PRECISION HAIRCUT TERS
PRECISION
JHAIRCUT COLOR
(ANY LENGTH)
$13.00
(WASH-CUT-BLOW STYLE)
NO
APPOINTMENT
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES 
$25.00
Mon., Tues., Wed. 10-7 
Thurs., Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-69jg4H
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
Scholarship
The Camegie-Mellon Pittsburgh Womens Clan Scholarship Awards committee will be inter
viewing women in order to select recipients for its 1984-85 awards on Monday evening, April 16, in 
Skibo Hall, Room 11, from 69 p.m.; on Tuesday evening, April 17, in Skibo Hall, Room 11, from 
69 p.m.; and on Wednesday evening, April 18, in Skibo Hall, Room 12, from 69 p.m.
The following criteria will be used:
1. Student must be in her Junior year in 1983-84. The award will be applied to the September tuition 
at CMU during her Senior year.
2. Student must be in the upper one-fourth of her class.
3. Student should participate in some school activities.
4. Student's financial need and aid will also be taken into consideration. Student must have already 
filed a 1984-85 Financial Aid Form (FAF) or Pennsylvania State Grant/Federal Student Aid Form, or 
have a 1983-84 aid appliction'on file in the Financial Aid Office.
Scholarship applications are now available in the Financial Aid Office. A total amount of $2,000 
will be awarded and divided among 3 or 4 recipients. Deadline for submission of the application is 
April 10, 1984. Applications should be returned to the Financial Aid Office, Warner Hall 216, at 
which time the student should set up an appointment for her interview.
The Camegie-Mellon Pittsburgh Women's Clan is comprised of Alumni of Camegie-Mellon 
University. They have maintained an active interest in CMU activities and have been very generous 
in their support of time and activities.
SAYBR00K COURT 
OAKLAND'S FINEST 
TOWNHOUSE CONDOMINIUM VALUE 
Only 11 Two/Three Bedroom Units Available
Why pay rent when you can own a townhouse condo : 
. Monthly payments less than rent 
. Only 5% down (at closing)
. No Real Estate Taxes for 3 years 
. Maintenance free condominium living 
. Within walking distance of the medical, educational, 
cultural and civic centers of Oakland 
A Joint Venture of Oakland Planning and Development 
Corporation and Cranshaw Construction, Inc. 
Stop by our sales trailer located on Craft Avenue (just 
off the Boulevard of the Allies, behind the Gulf Station). 
MONDAY-SUNDAY 12-4 (or by appointment)
(412)681-9961 (412) 681-9956
REALTY SALES, INC. EXCLUSIVE MARKETING AGENT

---------------------------------------------------

Spring Carnival Schedule
Time Machine "It's Better the Second Time Around"
Thursday, April 12
8 amExhibit "Buggy Evolution: 4:38-2:09" (until 2 am)Hunt 1st fl.
9 amBuggy Design Display and CompetitionGym
Pre-Sale of Ride tickets (until 3 pm)Skibo Desk
NoonPick up Spies Game AssignmentsSkibo Lobby
5 pmOpening Ceremonies plus BreakdancersM idway
Skydiving Exhibition/RaffleIM Field
6 pmAB Movie "Shall We Dance?" 
Spies Game Begins
DH 2210
6:30 pmAquamadonnasTent
8 pm (Scotch 'n Soda "Salem After Midnight"Ballroom
SDC Gong ShowTent
Drama Production "Guys and Dolls"Kresge Theatre
8:30 pmAB Movie "Shall We Dance"DH 2210
10 pmFireworks Display (Friday raindate)Tech Stadium
11 pmAB Movie "Shall We Dance?"DH 2210
MidnightMidway ClosesMidway
Friday, April 13
8 amExhibit Buggy Evolution: 4:38-2:09 (until mdnt.) 
Sweepstakes Races
Hunt 1st fl.
NoonMidway OpensMidway
1 pmCaricaturistMidway
2 pmSally Fingerett CoffeehouseTent
3 pmDan Kamin (Mime)Midway
Kiltie Band ConcertWherrett Room
4 pmActual Size and the ShuntsTent
5:30 pmAlex Cole (Comedian)On the Cut
6 pmAB Movie "West Side Story"DH 2210
T-Shirt CompetitionSkibo Lobby
Spies Game Ends
6:30 pmAB Concert: Outlaws (Rain location: Gym)On the Cut
8 pmScotch 'N Soda "Salem After Midnight"Ballroom
8:30 pmAB Movie: "West Side Story"DH 2210
Square Dance "Deer Creek String Band"Tent
midnightMidway ClosesMidway
Saturday, April 14
8 amSweepstakes Races
9 amExhibit "Buggy Evolution: 4:38-2:09" (until mdnt.)Hunt 1st fl.
11 amMidway OpensMidway
1 pmTom Hoffman (Folksinger)Tent
CMU Men's Tennis vs. Case Western ReserveHome
CMU Men's Track vs. John Carroll, ThielHome
Team CompetitionIM Field
2 pmSpecial Food Extravaganza: 100 ft Hoagie &On Cut)
Giant Banana Split(rain: Skibo)
3 pmAB Concert: Trinidad Tripoli Steel BandTent
5 pmJazz ChoirTent
6 pmSDC Movie: "Strange Brew"DH 2210
Mr. G. (Hypnotist)Tent
7:30 pmBarbershop QuartetTent
8 pmScotch 'N Soda "Salem After Midnigth"Ballroom
SDC Movie: "Strange Brew"DH 2210
AquamadonnasTent
9 pmSDC "Spectrum" DanceTent
10 pmMidway ClosesMidway
SDC Movie: "Strange Brew"DH 2210
10:30 pmAwards CeremonyTech Stadium 
(rain: Gym)
midnightSDC Movie: "Strange Brew"DH 2210

---------------------------------------------------

Scotch N Soda presents . . .
A New Musical
SALEH AFT
written by Darren S. Bevill 
Music by Carl Lewis & Joe Hasper
April 1114 8:00 p.m.Skibo Ballroom
$3 Student/Senior Citizens General Admission
ucc
BUILDING
Student Open House 
Fri. April 13th 
2:00-4:00 p.m.
*Refreshments 
will be served
SUAA NMELIGIeCMU Travel Office
Campus Convenience
Skibo 40A

---------------------------------------------------

Funnies.
....................,,,,,,,,,,
JOE FRESHMAN
(o EZ... look at all these 
hackees ... P^06rm\min6 Away 
ukf they Hadn't a care...
? hacked amse Throw off
^ youK SWKLES OF veddavys
, F,lMhy gugdl.C m
^ MonaJT IS M0wj
WORLD \S VoURSi
60 amo takt it*;,.Tr Yu MAVf
To 00 T? 6T A 
TeM\wi...
CAPT. KRON KITE AND REXby John IV! . ley

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
ousing
mmer sublet, fall option: One bedroom apartt. kitchen, laundry, free parking, security 
ilding. Ten minutes to CMU. 285 + electric. 
1-0111-
miner sublet!!! June-August, Male preferred. 
,gle room (10' x 12') in 4-bedroom apartment, 
/month + approximately $30 utilitiesi8Sh9u Call Dave @ 683-1687, 7:00-9:00 p.m.
oms for rent for summer period beginning 
ie 1 and ending August 15. Maid and linen 
vice provided. Only $55.00 per week, phone 
-7010.
ail. Apr. 1 Shadyside unfum. apt. 2d fir., 1 br. 
[erences, lease, $325 + utilities. Same, avail. 
iy it 1st fir. 621-0812 day; 767-9942 eve.
r2 bedrooin apt. Sq. Hili - near comer Forbes 
Murray Ave., rent negotiable, available immeteiy. Call 422-0733.
ommate needed immediately. Imperial
iuse, Squirrel Hill. Please call Donna at 765- 
17 or 421-0548.
rnner rooms for rent; cool, quiet, clean, close, 
peted; fall options $120-$ 165; 682-1378, please 
\t message, hope you like Humphrey Bogart.
obs_____________
cellent student summer job. Night auditor 
nted for summer resort hotel at Lake Chautauanear Buffalo, NY. Bookkeeping background 
fssary, good salary', from June 20 to August 
Write P. O. Box 9043, Pgh., PA 15224.
ndreds of careers at the technological cutting 
e. Silicon Valley Jobguide: $4.95. Sunbelt 
exing, 2615 South Mission, Tucson, Arizona,
13.
ndreds of careers at the technological cutting 
e. Silicon Valley Jobguide: $4.95. Sunbelt 
exing, 2615 South Mission, Tucson, Arizona,
13.
ndreds of careers at the technological cutting 
e. Silicon Valley Jobguide: $4.95. Sunbelt 
exing, 2615 South Mission, Tucson, Arizona,13.
eligion
lie talk group meets every Monday evening at i Skibo Room 39. For a great time of learning 1 fellowship, this is the place to be. Set some e aside and be there! For more information, 441-0819, and ask for John.
antine Catholic Mass. Divine Liturgy is brated at 7 p.m. on Saturday in Skibo 39. All antine Catholics and anyone interested in the ern rite church is invited to join us.
Allegheny 
Womens Center
an out patient 
medical clinic offering
* aborlion
 Iree pregnancy tets
* personal counseling
* birth control services 
' gynecological l Jrt
* Morning Alter Irejtment
362-2920
hI2u BPHBr: ytkit $U HjShjq iXh Q5iIkiSv J'rrlCTl S cjSh985ij 4iv9h RDh9 NI88q^
A00 78qh9 O9ihNijIk ghqjjh 
cihhsE5qv9u ce 0LAMYddddddddddd
Wlewild Park  Summer Jobs
are looking for traditional demonstrating 
aftsmen as well as Food Service employees, 
Operators, Cashiers, Costumed
taracters.
If mterested, apply in person at the Steak-Out 
es|aurant, Rt. 30 West (across from Idlewild 
arll> Ligonier, PA Prtl 230
n-Fri .t-QQ p ^ faoQ p-m. 
nL9**>a.m.to 12.-00 p.m.
General ________
WRCT announces that they will be officially 
raising their power from 10 to 100 watts tocoin>cide with the opening of the Midway on Thurs
day afternoon.
Three scholarships will be awarded by the Pen
nsylvania Federation of Democratic Women: a 
Florence Domblaser Memorial Scholarship in 
the amount of $400.00, an Emma Guffey Miller 
Memorial Scholarship in the amount of $400.00, 
and a John J. Kane, Jr. Scholarship in the 
amount of $400.00.
Any deserving woman student in the junior 
class of an accredited college or university may 
apply. The awards are for use during her senior 
year. She must be majoring in political science, 
government, economics or history or preparing 
to teach one of these subjects. She must have good 
scholastic standing. She must be reasonably 
active in student activities. She must be a resident 
of Pennsylvania. She must establish the need for 
financial aid, and she must possess a Democratic 
family background or be an active participant in 
the affairs of the Democratic Party.
Applications must be postmarked no later 
than April 11, 1984. Applications may be 
obtained in the Student Affairs Office, Warner 
Hall 206 or by writing to: Sophie Masloff; 3566 
Beechwood Blvd.; Pittsburgh, PA 15217.
The deadline for Alpha Phi Omegas Kent D. 
Shaffer scholarship application has been 
changed to Friday April 13, 1984. Please return 
applications to Alpha Phi Omega via campus 
mail, Box 100, Attention: KDS, or tum it in at the 
Skibo Information Desk.
The booklet Presentation of Fine Arts Graduates 
is free to all graduating students in Fine Arts who 
wish to develop a strategy, tools, and resumes 
toward their search for a career in their respective 
disciplines. This booklet is available from the 
CFA Deans office. The booklet has been used by 
CFA graduates for the last five years.
INPO (Instititue of Nuclear Power Operations) 
has recently awarded a fellowship in the field of 
health physics to the University of Pittsburgh 
Department of Radiation Health for the 1984-85 
academic year. The fellowship will be offered to a 
masters level student who intends to pursue a 
career in power generation health physics. It will 
provide the student with a stipend of $6,500 with 
an additional $2,500 educational allowance to 
help defray the cost of tuition and fees. For 
further information contact: Dr. Joseph A. 
Watson, A512 Crabtree Hall, Graduate School of 
Public Health, University of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15261, (412) 624-2732.
The National Endowment or the Humanities
has announced a unique grants program for 
individuals under 21 to spend a summer carrying 
out their own non-credit humanities research 
projects. The Younger Scholars Program will 
award up to 100 grants nationally for 
outstanding research and writing projects in 
such fields as history, philosophy and the study 
of literature. These projects will be carried out 
during the summer of 1985. The application 
deadline is September 15, 1984.
Award recipients will be expected to work 
full-time for nine weeks during the summer, 
researching and writing a humanities paper 
under the close supervision of a humanities 
scholar. Please note that this is not a financial aid 
program, that no academic credit should be 
sought for the projects, and that competition for 
these grants is rigorous.
For guidelines, write to: Younger Scholars 
Guidelines CN, Rm. 426, The National 
Endowment for the Humanities, Washington, 
D. C. 20506.
Urban Youth Action Alumni Association is 
pleased to announce its reorganization. The 
Association is offering special programs for all 
past UYA participants. To find out what the 
Associaiton has for you, contact Iris Williams or 
Richard Gillcrese at 391-7807, Monday through 
Friday, 10 a.m. - 6 p.m.
For sale/Wanted
1981 Honda Civic 4-door, silver, air, AM-FM 
stereo, excellent condition, 18,000 miles, $4900. 
681-3682.
Is it true you can buy jeeps for $44 through the U.
S. Government? Get the facts today! Call (312) 
742-1142 Ext 3401A
Attention CMU graduates. Special GMAC 
financing plan available through Don Allen 
Chevrolet. Low, low down payment on all new 
models. For complete details call Rich Owen
681-4800.
Volvoclassic, 1966, runs well, AM/FM cassette, 
must sell. $1000 or best offer. 531-4994.
USED complete saber fencing outfit. $50. Call 
Aaron 793-6726.
HAIRCUTTING/HAIRCOLOR MODELS 
WANTED! For upcoming hair/fashion shows. 
Must be open to androgynous post-modern haircutting ideas and willing to make a change in 
your present hairstyle. Dancing/acting expe
rience very helpful! For more information con
tact Debbie at 261-6150 weekdays 1 p.m. - 5 p.m.
Wanted: Grateful Dead tickets, any show this 
tour. Call Jon at 521-5091 or 578-3851.
Petitioners Needed. Gather signatures to put 
Libertarian candidates on the ballot. Earn $6.00 
and up. Call Henry Haller 241-5828.
Stereo speakers3-way system, powerful bass, 
must sell $100. Phone 422-7233 eves. A real 
bargain!
Services__________
We type resumes at student rates. When speed, 
format and accuracy are vital .. . Call us: 
TRANSCOMP INC. 621-1006.
Typing/word processing. Theses, tenn papers, 
manuscripts, resumes, letters, etc. (APA, MLA, 
and Turabian manuals strongly followed) Spe
cialize in last-minute work. Call our 24-hour ser
vice 371-3657.
Flying Fingers Word Processing. Business/aca
demic papers, resumes, cover letters, etc. Editing 
included. Erika Van Sickel 731-8978.
Identify your organization with a custom printed 
T-shirt or jersey. We silk-screen print shirts for 
the campus community. Call the T-Shirt Com
pany at 578-3535 and speak to John for details. 
Rent-a-spot - Dont drag it home to Mom  stow 
it for reasonable rates, month to month lease, 15 
min. from downtown. Open daily to 6:00 p.m. 
Weekends to 4:00 p.m.comer Rt. 885 and 
Lebanon Church Road next to County Airport 
back of Century III Mall. 655-3610.
We have the lowest airfares to Europe and across 
America! For free color brochure write to: Cam
pus Travel, Box 11387, St. Louis, MO 63105.
Have you any compliments or complaints about 
anything academic at CMU? Please tell is at 
Academic Affairs Comm, c/o Skibo Info Desk.
Student entrepreneurs interested in establishing 
or running a business on campus are invited to 
contact Student Corporation at x3535.
Delta Upsilon will be helping the United Ways 
Oakland Youth Center  a home for runaways 
 on the weekends of April 21 and 28. Their 
philanthropy project includes painting, 
yatdwork and light construction.
Clubs
Explorers Club. Kayaking, cross-country skiing, 
and hiking trips. Meetings on Thursdays, 6:30 
Skibo Room 12.STUDENTSRATE
Students rate with us. If youre 18 or older, all you stop by to complete a qualification form. We also 
need to rent from us is your current student I.D., accept most major credit cards. You pay for gas 
valid drivers license and cash deposit. Call or and return the car to the renting location.
Available at.
4621 Forbes Avenue (Oakland) 682-1444
WE GIVE YOU NATIONAL ATTENTION: AND THATS THE TRUTH.
7.hi8S.I H.q 4jSh.I
Rate available from 
6 p.m. Thursday to 
6 p.m. Monday. 
Certain daily 
minimums apply. 
Ask for details.
We feature GM cars 
like (his ( Mdsmobile Cutlass
\im di\i ounluhle rutr 
apphe\ to this nr similar \izr c ur 
and is sub/ect hi G horu/r u ith'Wt ru JC r 
Sprain car\ tub/n l to ai uihihihrx
abortion 
(1vunselinq servier 
'Iilh immith and 
d'Q'iHi/ Irani peopleUh(i t nre

---------------------------------------------------

Fast FREE Delivery
Y&C,MTMM
4740 Baum Blvd; OaklandPgh, PA.
13 TASTY ITEMS TO CHOOSE FROM
PEPPERONI GROUND CHUCK THICK CRUST HOT PEPPERS OLIVES
SAUSAGE HAM ONIONS ANCHOVIES EXTRA CHEESE
BACON GREEN PEPPERS MUSHROOMS
1216Cheese............... $4.29 ......................$6.081 Item...........----- 4.98 ...................... 6.982 Items.........----- 5.75 ...................... 7.953 Items.........----- 6.52 ................. 8.924 Items............. 7.29 ...................... 9.895 Items.........___ 8.06 ......................10.86
FOUR STAR PIZZA L ITEMS FOR THE PRICE OF TDELUXE PEPPERONI, SAUSAGE, MUSHROOMS, ONIONS, GREEN PEPPERS
SORRY NO SUBSTITUTIONS
,,,,,,,,,,,
FREE DELIVERY* 
WITHIN 30 MIN. 
10 MIN. PICK-UP 
STORE HOURS:SUN-THURS 11 AM-2 AM FRI & SAT 11 AM-3 AM
*WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO 
LIMIT OUR DELIVERY AREA 
SORRY, WE DO NOT ACCEPT 
PERSONAL CHECKS.
VALUABLE COUPONS
COUPON
 FOUR STAR
\ ANY 16 DELUXE . PEPPERONI, SAUSAGE, MUSHROOMS,. 
H ONIONS, AND GREEN PEPPERS jR
M|
T?l
I
COUPON  COUPON   mm COUPON  Wm  _______
 rrv-rr.B FOUR SUR __ FOUR SUR ' ^^JoFfJ ; i$ OYl j J WB& $ J
-n
iOFFI
I
ONIONS, AND GREEN PEPPERS 
AND FOUR FREE 16 OZ. CUPS 
OF COKE
eoo4(gg
ONE COUPON PiR PiZ?A
HfFcf7 (?cr4(g 6W1/84 O$yllxhy, g,FF?F7hPB,X\V
m 854fiivjPv P#Nte p 9 o/i/m 8v4ushsu u'iqv .qi. r
mm mm coupon     coupon   *
Wf RiStBvf
Name. aYra 
OU* OftII
ON ANY 16" PIZZA ^ ^ON ANY 16" PIZZA | |ANY x lz^rx |
AMO FOUR FREE 16 OZ CUPS AND TWO FREE 16 OZ CUPS
OFCJOKF   *_____________OF COKE______________
  namR ADDRESS I
ANO FOUR FREE 16 OZ CUPS
OF COKE
NAMfc
in Col
COUPON (.p s 6/|/84
ADDiiSS
A: ststa.i 8 6- 'Ol 0^8 111
II
NAMl
ONt COUPON E8P7/A
FINEIR t*P'B(s g/j/g4
ADDBtsS
isjB.e
ICH IO 
0.8 't> Al
ADDRESSd  __ wc RCXH*l
>/ f COUPON tJPtRES fi/l/ft4 GMT f0 LIMIT
Ug  M IVI/IW OUR DEtlVtRV AREA I
py yi q8ycoKi 0COUPONCOUPONCOUPONCOUPON
