The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 83, Number 18, February 22, 1983.
adzen says everything "pretty quiet" on campus
JiANCY RITCHEY
Staffwriter
Ever since Christmas break, its been 
ty quiet, " said Robert Fadzen, director of 
CMl campus police department about 
latest incidents involving the campus
this Issue
litorial
lere has all our money gone?... page 2 
fws
lysis of presidential election ... page 5
itures
^rations together......................
Imer Hall Weekly: Dean Cox .
[tertainnient
,r(ls f Discipline reviewed .. 
rview with student playwright 
?rts
( ,(>ss teach blind to dive....
tans demolish Duquesne.........
nies ..
. page 9 
page 10
page 13 
page 13
page 17 
page 17
jxige 22
police.
Major incidents which have occurred on 
campus in the past two weeks included a 
fire, a reported missing student, and a 
number of medical escorts, according to 
Fadzen and the police record.
The fire was reported on Friday February 
11, at 9:53 p.m., at the Pi Kappa Alpha 
fraternity. According to Fadzen, four cam
pus police officers and one sergeant, along 
with city police units, responded to the
alarm at this time. The fire was found in a 
woodshed located in front of the fraternity 
and was promptly extinguished, Fadzen 
said. Major damage, caused by the blaze, was 
confined to the shed area with minimal 
smoke damage to the exterior of the build
ing also reported.
According to Fadzen, two brothers from 
the adjacent fraternity Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon, Charles Coulson and Brad Harkavy, witnessed the incident and reported
Infection doses weight room
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Iiist week, amid rumors of infection, the 
weight room in the gym was closed down 
for disinfecting. The reason for the alarm 
was that a CMU student, the son of one of 
the football coaches, contracted impetigo, a 
skin disease, and a possible place of infec
tion was the weight room.
James Banner, director of Athletic Servi
ces, said that there is no proof that the dis
ease was contracted in the weight room, but 
that rather than take a chance, he had the 
weight room closed and professionally dis
infected. He praised physical plant for react
ing quickly.
Impetigo is a skin disease that starts out 
looking like a rash and turns into water 
blisters. Though not serious it is highly con
tagious and spreads rapidly. Student Health 
said that the disease is quite common and 
that no other cases have been reported.
The student is being treated by a family 
doctor.
I felt it was my responsibility to close 
down the weight room topievent the disease 
from spreading, said Banner. The weight 
room is again open for use.
seeing two white males fleeing the scene 
after an explosion. They described the first 
suspect as wearing a Navy jacket and the 
other, a brown ski jacket. The suspects who 
fled east after the fire broke out were not 
apprehended.
Fadzen warns the campus community, If 
people are going to go away for a few days, 
they should attempt to let someone know 
where they are going as not to cause trauma 
to family and friends. On February 11, at 
4:26 p.m., a CMIT student was reported to 
the campus police as missing by her room
mate. According to the roommate, the stu
dent had disappeared without word on 
February 7.
A search was begun involving the Dean of 
Student Affairs, and numerous calls were 
made to acquaintances and to the students 
family in Hong Kong. The student was 
finally discovered to be arriving in Hong 
Kong for a visit with her family, Fadzen said.
According to Fadzen, this type erf missing 
student situation occurs often throughout 
the year. It would have been so much easier 
if these students had just mentioned to their 
roommates that they were going away for 
continued on page 0
ent-a-Tech 
loves to Warner, 
fers odd-jobs
JOHN CANTINE
Associate Entertainment Editor
tent-a-Tech, the service organization 
|ich helps find part-time jobs for CMU 
jents, has become a part of the Career 
Ivices and Placement Office in Warner
ccording to Michael Gottfried of StuL Corp., Rent-a-Tech, which was a StuCorp. subsidiary, has been losing 
Iney for some time. We made a study of 
j situation, and found that it was due to 
ipetition with the Placement Office. 
^ent-a-Tech usually provides odds, which typically last for only a day or 
as a way for students to pick up extra 
l. The placement office provides more 
itional part-time jobs, in which a stuIt works a few hours every week. Even so, 
I fact that there were two organizations to 
with confused some employers.
|When we discovered the situation, 
pried says, the University and Student 
wanted to do as much as possible to 
students get jobs. Their solution was 
eliminate the competition by placing 
|nt-a-Tech under Placements 
Isdiction.
)ttfried stresses that Rent-a-Techs serwill remain the same, only more effilt. Turnover has always been a 
)lem, but now that Rent-a-Tech is run 
I Maureen Barcic in Warner Hall, this 
|uld no longer be a problem, 
esides posting job opportunities on the 
|rd in the basement of Warner Hall, 
it-a-Tech is implementing a job Bboard 
the TOPS system, as well as posting 
[ices in Baker Hall and other places 
md campus.
)ttfried notes that there will be little 
jnge in Rent-a-Tech aside from the physilove to Warner Hall. He also points out 
the move will not affect other Student
Ip. services.
Additions planned
Future food service rates will increase
By TINA ELLERBEE
Tartan Staffwriier
Food Service contract prices for next year 
have been finalized, according to Ken 
Stover, director of University Food Service. 
The prices are listed in the following table.
The prices for the 19 meal and 15 meal 
plans are up 6% from last year, while the 10 
and 5 meal plans are up 8%.
Other changes in Food Service planned 
for next year include the major renovation 
of Salads Plus. One of the walls will be 
moved into the area that is now Kiltie Cafe, 
adding at least 60 new seats to Salads Plus.
Restrooms and new furniture will be added. 
There will also be an expansion of the serv
ing system to include different types of sta
tion feeding, such as deli sandwiches and 
hot entrees.
Another change planned for next year is 
the conversion of Morewood Cafeteria to an 
unlimited seconds plan, leaving Salads
Plus as the primary a la carte facility. And if 
the reduced seating capacity in the Kiltie 
creates enough demand for it, Morewood 
hours will be extended to include breakfast 
and weekend meals.
Additionally, starting on February 25, the 
Tartan Grill will be open until 3 a.m. on 
Friday and Saturday nights.
FallSpringTotalCost/meal
19 meals$598$648$1246$2.08
15 meals$532$576$1108$2.34
10 meals$432$470$902$2.86
5 meals$228$249$477$3.02
Students dressed up for the occasion to advertise last Fridays party, Kiss M*A*S*H goodbye.photo by Clarke V. Simmons

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
What does university do with all the money
Where has all our money gone?
Next years tuition will be 19% more than 
this years. However, despite this and other 
increases, the university is constandy asking us 
to help them raise money. Even when we leave 
here, we will sdll be called upon  frequently 
 for donations.
Though, how much of this money goes to 
the students? Most student activities are not 
supported financially by the university. Two 
sports teams are really clubs because the uni
versity wont give them recognidon and fund
ing; they cannot afford much of the equipment 
needed. Better housing and food service are 
running jokes; classroom space and quality 
labs are dwindling; student groups will have to 
cut their budgets next year, and the list goes on.
We see the administrators advancing their 
own interests, not the students. Granted, Van 
Horns newest corporate venture with IBM, 
and Cyerts robotics might be wonderful pub
lic reladons and may bring this university 
recognidon, but we quesdon the modvadon of
a university which places its students so low on 
its list of priorides.
Tuidon composes only a percentage of the 
universitys operadng costs, and money must 
come from outside. We want this outside 
money to be channelled back to the student 
body. Many donadons are made to this school 
which are not specifically marked for any
thing. The administrators use their discredon 
in distributing it and we do not think they 
distribute it well.
The formal operadng rules of this school 
state: The Corporation [CMU] shall have per
petual existence. Who are we, the temporary 
students, to argue with that? We see the admnistrators saying, Theyll be gone in a few 
years, but the school will always be here. 
They soak up as much of our money as possi
ble, and then we help them get even more!
Take, for example, the annual phonathon 
run by the Development Office, which asks 
students to volunteer their time to call alumni 
across the nation and ask for money. Why
arent the alumni asked to mark contribute 
for students needs? This has been suggest 
the Development Office in the past, includ 
this year, but we have seen no results. Thi 
one area where outside money can be( 
nelled back to the students.
In addition to running the phonathon 
university solicits funds from outside soun 
Students dont even know about most of 
fundraising projects because most of 
money isnt going to the students.
The answer administrators give when 
dents and student groups ask for more moi 
is that it isnt there or we dont have 
resources to get it.
Where can students get some of this mon 
and how? Do we try to suck up to the alumi 
or do we merge as a corporation with oti 
IBMs ourselves? Maybe. Or maybe we star 
take advantage of those Warner Hall offi 
hours and ask the adminstration to think 
students.
Start asking.
Windy City race is a spectacle to behold
By Stuart Shapiro
The political winds in the Windy City 
have been particularly gusty lately. Of 
course, in the four years since Jane Byrne 
beat Chicagos famed (or infamous, depend
ing on your point of view) 
Democratic machine to win the 
1979 Democratic mayoral prim
ary, the air has seldom been still. 
But for the last year Chicagoans have had 
the rather novel experience of not knowing 
who their next mayor will be.
In that sense, Chicago politics is a far cry 
from what it used to be during the twentyone year reign of Richard J. Daley. A threeway race for the Democratic nomination, 
which in Chicago is virtually equivalent to 
being elected mayor, might not produce 
raised eyebrows in other major cities. But in 
Chicago, its a spectacle the likes of which 
hasnt been seen in quite a while. And to 
make it even juicer, one of the challengers is 
none other than Richie Daley, son and heir 
not so apparent to the Boss himself. Throw 
in black (no small fact in a city that is 40% 
black) Representative Harold Washington 
and you have the recipe for a real dandy of a
primary.
WTiat lends a particularly interesting fla
vor to this fracas, however, is that the tables 
have turned more than a little since Byrne 
defeated then Acting Mayor Michael Bilandic and the might of the Machine for the 
Democratic nomination. Back then it was 
underdog Jane Byrne going up against 
what was thought an invincible Democratic 
organization under the control of Daley pro
tege Bilandic. Now its Byrne who controls 
the somewhat creaky Machine as Daley and 
Washington try to crash the party. Fortu
nately for both, Bymes triumph four years 
ago was not the result of lavish campaign 
spending; put together, their campaign 
funds amount to only slightly more than ten 
percent of what Byme has stockpiled. So 
money isnt everything.
Still, it never hurts to have plenty of it 
when attempting to extol ones virtues as a 
candidate. At least that seems to be Mayor 
Bymes credo. Shes raised over 9.5 million 
dollars since her election in 1979. If it all gets 
spent, Jane Byme will have captured, if not 
another term as mayor, certainly a spot in
the Guinness Book of World Records.
But the real intrigue lies in what todays 
primary implies for the short term future of 
Chicago politics. If Byme pulls it off, is it 
back to business as usual for the Cook 
County Democratic empire? Doubtful. 
Byme can count a lot of powerful people 
among her enemies, including Representa
tive Dan Rostenkowski, chairman of the 
House Ways and Means Committee and a 
Chicago Democratic ward committeeman. 
Given her unsettling, high keyed, and often 
downright chaotic style of government, 
which Ill wager has only been temporarily 
muted for the duration of the campaign, it 
seems unlikely that the reelection of Mayor 
Byme will ever be anything even remotely 
close to automatic.
The same question bears asking with 
regard to Richie Daley. Conceivably, if he 
could manage to worm his way into office, 
his apparently levelheaded, less theatrical 
operating mode might make for a Daley 
dynasty. If he can transform Chicago back 
into the city that works, the electorate will 
probably be willing to keep him employed 
as well.
Washington is the unknown variable 
the equation. If he can take a large shat 
the black vote plus a small portion of 
probably would have been Daley supp 
he could pull off an upset every bit asasi 
ishing as Bymes four years ago. In 
event, the future of Chicago politic 
anyones guess inasmuch as Washing 
has no great love for the Chicago Da 
cratic machine.
So why watch Dallas when you can % 
Chicago and see real cutthroat politics fi 
a gutter side seat? Just like Dallas, youm 
know what might happen next.
Lord only knows what the Boss w 
think of that.
Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student 
applied history and is a columnist for] 
Tartan.
Nate offers mom's letter and a spy kit
By Nate Solano
Dear Nate,
As you well know, I have always done my 
best to stay out of your college affairs, how
ever I feel obligated to write you this letter
* knowing this might help just
one of your constituents. Ive 
JT recently learned the highly pres
cribed antibiotic tetracycline 
renders the highly prescribed birth control 
method, the Pill, absolutely useless. Thus if 
you, or someone you know, uses tetracycline 
for their complexion while also using the 
pill, for whatever reason, they are just wast
ing money.
Love,
Mom the nurse
Dear Mom,
Thanks for coming through once again. 
Not just for me this time but for everybody.
Now what youve all been waiting for, a 
chance to buy your very own AGENT 
3.1416 Secret Housing Agent Spy Kit. For 
only $19.95 you will receive:
1.) Microphones cleverly disguised as 
roaches to blend in . with natural
surroundings.
2.) Secret Housing manual 12a: Morals 
and their proper infliction.
3.) Secret Housing manual 27c: Distin
guishing Housing Spies from Taiwanese 
Spies.
4.) Secret Housing manual 9b: Housing 
Spy Dos and Donts. Examples: a. Dont 
call Tony Martin by his first name (its a 
dead giveaway); b. Dont wear your free Res
ident Life T-shirts; and c. Do show your I.D. 
when you enter Morewood Gardens even 
though you dont have to.
5.) Secret Housing manual 44c: A grandstanders guide to witch hunting or a witch 
hunters guide to grandstanding.
Remember, the threat of retribution, real 
or perceived, is an infringement on freedom 
our university can afford.
This week the senate decided to reconsider 
last years consideration to move the office 
from downstairs to upstairs. A committee 
has been formed to investigate.
The Birth of Monroeville Mall.
Monroeville Mall was o|x*ned in approxi
mately 1969. I visited it on the opening day
and bought a crayon that was just a bunch 
of crayon chips and was pretty useless for 
most purposes. The four sided clock inside 
was hyped as being one of only two existing 
in the world (the other in Disney Land) but 
it never played music the way it was 
designed to and people soon lost interest. 
THE END
Office hours this week will be Wednesday 
from 4:30-6 p.m. and Thursdays from 7-9 
p.m.
Next week: The onomatopoeic Wooga 
Wooga Wooga.
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the top of page tu<o, and are the 
offiiial opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Columns are the opinions of mdii'idual authors who 
are usually on The Tartan staff, hut the opinions are 
not necessarily those of 111' Tartan Fxiitorial Board. 
Letters to the editor are opinions of indh'idual authors 
who are usually members of the tnhrrsity 
community, .-i letter intended for publication must be 
signed and includ'e the writer's address and phone 
number far irr if nation. Xames will be withheld upon 
request. IIk' Tartan resen rs the right to condense or 
reiei t any letter.
Thelrfeai
Editor in Chief.............................Monica Ge
Managing Editor.........................Gregg Bos
Business Manager......................... Kathy Wi
News Editor.............................Joanne Saw
Features Editor.........................Pauline Krai
Entertainment Editor........................Susan Pf
Sports Editor.....................................jeff Bergi
Photography Editor......................Steve Wina
Production Manager............Carolyn Spei
Ad Manager...................................Bonnie T
Typesetting Manager.....................Patti 0|
Art Director.............................Michael Suss
Contributing Editors.....................Alice Al
Vince Gui 
Louise 0
Assoc. Ent. Editor............................John Can
Assistant Business Mgr.....................Tara 0$
Assistant News Editors.................Chris Johns
Pauline
Asst. Features Editor.....................Monica
Asst. Sports Editor...............................Ric
Asst. Photo Editor..............................J<an ^
Asst. Production Mgr.........................
Production Staff: Susan Bossi, Margaret t*1 
Esther Fildemian, Andrew Ghali.
Copyright  I9RH by The Tartan. Ilie Kditoiu 
reserves die right to withhold from ptiblw11'^ 
ropy it deems unfit lot publication. HditoH 
Skibo V), (112) 578-2111. Business (Mines: Ski1*1 
(112) 578-2112. 21 how phone. <II2) 578-211 '*- ^ 
address: Box 17, Sehenle\ Paik. Pittsburgh ^ 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

February 22, 1983The TartanPage 3
Effort is misguided;
$ could be better used
By Doug Blair
The recent effort of A Phi O and the 
nited Fraternal Organization to help Kim 
lterino is appluadable, but misguided. 
Im Caterino is merely a symptom of a 
much greater problem.
In 1978, the latest figures I 
have available, there were 22,000 
new cases of leukemia reported 
the United States. Assuming that this 
oire is still relatively accurate, this leaves 
me 21,999 leukemia sufferers without aid.
That is not to say that Kim Caterino 
iould not be helped. She is, by all accounts, 
very fine young woman and a credit to her 
mily and her school. However, Ms. Cate12 should not be helped at the expense of 
e remaining 21,999 victims of leukemia in 
is country.
This phenomenon is not limited to leukeia; similar drives appear periodically for 
ncer, MS, and other debilitating diseases, 
lie result of all this is that some people, a 
lucky persons, receive the necessary 
loney and treatment, while thousands of 
[hers suffer without aid. The money spent 
individuals should be redirected to 
Rearch foundations, to try and stop the 
J oblem at the source.
The Caterino drive is a finger in the dike. 
| does not help to build the dam of medical 
inology that we so urgently need to solve 
problem. If a choice must be made 
kween the individual and the masses here, 
ast my vote for the masses. The old maxim 
le greatest good for the greatest number 
well taken in this instance.
However, there is no reason why we can 
t have our cake and eat it too. For the sake 
profits and balanced budgets, the medical 
immunity of this nation has forsaken 
ose persons incapable of funding their 
vn treatments. For a group that takes the 
ippocratic oath, this is an interesting conhWM
tradiction, particularly when it is noted that 
this same group is spending some $120,000 
for the benefit of 12 Lebanese children. Why 
the children cannot receive aid in Lebanan 
via the Red Cross or a similar organization, 
rather than across the ocean in Montour 
Hospital, is not explained.
While it is essential to help everyone pos
sible in any medical emergency, actions 
helping one afflicted party and no others 
amounts to judging the worth of the people 
involved. Again, I am in no way degrading 
Ms. Caterino; I think it is imperative that 
she receive her treatment, and I am very glad 
to see that she will be getting that essential 
operation. However, I am not anxious to 
make decisions regarding who will receive 
treatment and who will not. I dont think a 
decision such as this should have to be 
made. A decision against treatment in a case 
like this amounts to a death sentence for the 
victim. For no crime whatsoever. Here, in 
the land of the free, and the home of the 
brave.
Doug Blair is a Junior in Technical and 
Professional Writing and is a staffwriter for 
The Tartan.
Letters
WT IT A LITTLE EARLYFOR, SPRm ?9
Tartan drug story reveals attitudes
Editor:
It is with a certain amount of anger and 
disbelief that I write to you about your front 
page story on drugs in the Feb. 15 edition of 
The Tartan. Ive got a few simple observa
tions about the student, the administration, 
and your presentation of the story.
First, the student. A few of his comments 
amused me to no end. I was dumb. I played 
the music loud. Perhaps if he hadnt been 
popping ludes, he would have known bet
ter. But then, he wouldnt have been pop
ping in the first place. Especially, I agree ...
uc. sci. article corrected
Editor:
In regard to the front page story, Nuclear 
Bience grad program to be phased out, 
Itiich appeared in the February 8 Tartan, 
ease be advised that the program in quesJ)n is, in fact, the nuclear engineering proam in err.
The nuclear sciences are alive and more 
Ian well in MCS, with nine full-time 
I :ulty: six of these are in the physics depart
ment and three in the chemistry department. 
In addition, there are numerous graduate 
students, post-doctoral research associates, 
and also undergraduates involved in a wide 
variety of experimental and theoretical 
investigations that continue to maintain 
CMUs strong reputation in the nuclear 
sciences.
Paul J. Karol 
Associate Dean, MCS
You was dumb.
Also, I probably feel more sympathetic 
toward this person than his parents do. The 
decision to take drugs obviously means you 
dont have your shit together. That deserves 
sympathy. The parents themselves deserve 
some sympathy too. If they consider them
selves as part of this persons life, then they 
should have realized what was happening. 
(However, they could have been victims of 
the Naive Parents Syndrome, where a kid 
comes home everyday with red eyes, stuffed 
up nose, and empty look in his face only to 
say hes got a cold, and have his parents 
believe.)
Lets not forget about the administration. 
Up to this point, I didnt know of the illegal 
drug policy at CMU. I still dont. I havent 
seen the news in a few weeks ... is cocaine 
still illegal? If it is, why wasnt the offender
questioned (at least) by real police? Letting 
him get off so easily is showing the rest of the 
druggies that its O.K., just dont get caught. 
This is the wrong attitude! In an academic 
environment, drugs have no place, and the 
administration should let everyone know it.
Finally, a comment about The Tartans 
performance this time. Overall, I thought 
the article was a bit one-sided. I didnt like 
your attempt to provoke sympathy for this 
person. Also, why didnt you include his (or 
her) name in the article? Em harassment 
sometimes works on law breakers. Elsewise, 
good job!
A QT freshman
The Tartan was not able to obtain the 
information necessary for the story without 
promising anonymity. Had we been able to 
print the students name, we would have 
done so. Ed.
Parking could be improved
llison clarifies points 
md complains about profs
al
By Orpheus Allison
Now that I have let you all stew a bit, it is 
Jne for me to clarify some items. First, not 
scientists are inhuman as I have classified 
|em- There are scientists who do exemplify 
^ human characteristics, such as
vfSr Einstein and Salk. However,
' there are others such as the pronuclear scientist Teller. He can 
't see the effects of nuclear reactions on 
ple. He just wants bombs.
Now on to more relaxing material. This 
for die professors and for the students who 
e the teaching assistants. Many of you are 
ced with having to use a microphone. You 
10w what that is, it is that funny little 
|ng that turns your voice from that of the 
rtd mannered instructor to the roaring 
fofessor.
First, do not be afraid of it. It is not a
 ISnous snake that many of you imply
when you hold it away from your mouth. 
Remember, it must become part of you if the 
information you wish to present is going to 
be conveyed to us.
Another item of complaint is posture. 
Stop bouncing around when you are speak
ing to us. By bouncing around, rocking 
back and forth, and slouching in front of the 
audience, you convey a sense of unprepared
ness for the subject. Stand still and speak.
Now I realize many of you are going to get 
all worked up and angry w ith my audacity. 
Stop and think though. You have a purpose 
when you are teaching a class. How can you 
teach when you convey a sense of being 
unprepared? Your message is lost.
I also realize many of you are good lectur
ers. Keep up the good work, but for those 
who convey the above, try to correct it.
Orpheus Allison is a freshman in H&SS 
and is a columnist for The Tartan.
Editor
There is a significant shortage of reserved 
parking space on campus. So the Parking 
Office in its infinite wisdom has just issued 
the following ticketing policy:
When parking stalls are available in the 
lot, parking will not be allowed in aisles or 
spaces that are not lined for parking. Tickets 
will be issued to vehicles parking in this 
manner.
Parking Office 
Notice how the clever wording of this 
proclamation makes it virtually impossible
for the ticketing office to deduce the legality 
of cars parked in non-lined places.
The Parking Office should operate 
altruistically and spend its time improving 
lot space utilization and user convenience. 
In doing so it would generate additional 
yearly revenue while actually improving 
conditions on campus, a combination that 
is hard to pass up. I think this situation 
definitely needs looking into.
Thomas M. Hoosac 
Mechanical engineering graduate student
Valentine's day is fine
Editor:
Dear Chris Johnston,
I dont understand why you chose to 
viciously attack Valentines Day, even cal
ling it pathetic. I think Valentines Day is 
one of the most enjoyable holidays there is, 
and I definitely would like to slobber all over 
a girl friend till we were like a couple of 
face-sucking anteaters rather than contem
plating St. Valentines problems, which I 
wont pretend to understand.
I think your definition of love is good, 
although I dont think it always needs to be 
carried to the extremes you allude to. I
would like to add the comparison of love 
with friendship. Love is the superlative 
form of friendship, or even friendship itself. 
I see nothing wrong widi any kind of love 
relationship, sexual or not.
Finally, I think "heavily armed naked 
babies with wings is a strange extreme, but, 
Oh dear, I love you, ... and the way you 
move, and the way you look at me when I 
have my hands down your pants, is a 
wonderfully romantic statement to tell your 
lover.
Peter Maivald 
sophomore in chemistry

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanFebruary 22, 1983
Different 1RS tax forms examined and explained
By FRANK THEIS
Tartan Staffwritrr
Its tax time again, and while taxes are a 
hassle, most CMU students will find the tax 
burden does not fall too heavily on the stu
dent worker. Due by April 15, all tax forms 
must be sent with the payment (or request 
for refund) to avoid prosecution.
Most students arent required to pay fed
eral taxes. If you are single, and make under 
$3300 ($5400 if married and filing with your 
spouse), you only need to file if you want a 
refund on withheld taxes. However, there 
are exceptions to this rule. The taxes them
selves can be avoided by filing a W-4 form at 
the payroll office, under the exempt 
status.
To file, you need a government form, or a 
copy erf one. These are available at Post 
Offices, banks, and at the CMU payroll 
office. Usually, the 1040EZ form is the best 
to file, as it is the easiest for low income 
individuals without deductions. The 1040A 
is a bit longer, but allows some deductions 
and a higher income ceiling. The intimidat
ing 1040, or long form, will most likely not 
be needed. The IRS even includes a safety 
valve, the 1040X, which can cancel and 
replace an erroneous form. These forms 
come with explanation booklets for step by 
step help. But the IRS can help with any 
problems, and will even figure out your 
taxes for you if you send them a half com
plete 1040 form (see the form for details).
Although workstudy money is exempt 
from the 6.65% Social Security Tax (FICA), 
it is still necessary to pay income tax on 
workstudy earnings. The University has dis
tributed W-2 forms to its employees, with 
copies going to the government. A copy of
Name
Street
City State Zip
School
Check the courses that interest you:
Canoeing ___ Desert
White Water Expeditions
Rafting  Wilderness
Sailing __ Backpacking
Cycling  Mountaineering
Outward Bound, Dept CH.
384 Field Point Rd.
Greenwich. CT 06830 
Phone toll free (800) 2434520
No experience necessary Outward Bound admits students of any sex, nee, color and national or ethnic origin. We are a nonprofit organization. Scholarships available.
Outward BoundThe course that never ends
the form, one from each employer during 
1982, must be sent with each tax form.
The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania 
also gets a copy, in order to cross reference 
tax returns. The state taxes 2.2% across the 
board, which is withheld, and there is no 
option to keep them from doing this. In 
addition, there are only two ways to get the 
money back. Tax Forgiveness is granted 
to independents making less than $3900 a
year. For a student, this may get him a full 
refund. If you are a dependent of a Pennsyl
vania resident, you must pay the tax if you 
made more than $45.
Out-of-staters are dealt with differently. If 
you live in Ohio, West Virginia, Maryland, 
New Jersey, or Indiana, you are exempt but 
are expected to pay in your state. The other 
states dont have the same deal, so a worker 
must prove he paid the tax in his home state
to avoid Pennsylvania taxes.
The city of Pittsburgh taxes 2.125% 0f 
gross income, but if you live outside of (L 
city limits, you can avoid paying this \ 
form is available at the payroll office, 
when signed by your hometown tax collec 
tor, exempts you from the tax. If you liVClll 
the city, the tax form should have been sent 
to you. Otherwise, you need to file in y^ 
hometown.
Political freedoms of students examined
Harassment by foreign governments of 
their citizens studying or teaching in the 
United States is the subject of a one-day 
conference sponsored by Camegie-Mellon 
University on Saturday, March 5.
The conference, The Political Freedom 
of Foreign Nationals on U.S. Campuses, is 
free and open to the public. It will be held in 
the auditorium of the Mellon Institute, 4400 
Fifth Avenue, starting at 10:30 a.m.
According to CMU President Richard M. 
Cyert, one of the conferences principal 
objectives will be to determine the serious
ness of the problem, how it affects the free
dom of foreign nationals in American 
universities, and what the U.S. government
Peace Corps recruiters will be at CMU on 
March 7 and 8. They will be holding a 
general information meeting on March 7 at 
7 p.m. in Room 11, Skibo. A thirty-minute 
film will be shown by a former volunteer. 
There will also be an information table set 
up in the lobby of Skibo on March 8 from 9 
a.m. to 4:30 a.m. where students can stop by 
and talk to a recruiter and gadier informa
tion about the Peace Corps.
can do diplomatically and in domestic law 
enforcement to deal with it.
Cyert notes the problem has affected the 
Camegie-Mellon community in a particu
larly tragic way: our colleague, Professor 
Wen-chen Chen  an advocate of political 
reforms in his native Taiwan  was killed 
in July 1981, while on a visit to his home 
country.
Speakers at the sessions include: Joel 
Lisker, chief counsel and staff director of the 
U.S. Senate Subcommittee on Security and 
Terrorism; Michael Glennon, former legal 
counsel to the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations 
Committee; and David Carliner, an attorney 
specializing in immigration and nationality
recruits
The recruiters are looking for degrees, 
backgrounds or experience in biology', 
chemistry, physics, math, and civil, sanitary 
and environmental engineering. Interested 
students are encouraged to apply early, as 
only about 3000 volunteer positions are 
filled each year.
Dorothy Sullivan, recruiter for the Peace 
Corps Philadelphia area office, says the 
continued on page 31
law and rights of aliens.
Also speaking will be: Stephen Cohen 
former deputy assistant secretary of state fa 
human rights; Edward Baker, assistant to 
the director of the Harvard-Yenching Insj. 
tute; Richard Cottam, professor of politic 
science at the University of Pittsburgh and 
an expert on Iranian affairs; and James Sevmour, executive director of the Society fo 
the Protection of East Asian Human Righ^
Slogan selected
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Some Like It Rough is the slogan fc 
Spring Carnival 1983.
Gina Osbom, head of the Spring Can 
val Committee, made that announcema 
last week. She said that the committee h 
also discussed a Raiders of the Lost Ai 
scavenger hunt, a video game competition, 
James Bond spy game and a costume ca 
test. However, Osbom stressed that thes 
plans are still tentative.
Spring Carnivals new phone number 
x6634.
Peace Corps
Thelrf aihnf (j Eirs exn  
er(H io x(ux fLsnehrsI
2e f(jCiLsr(nu tihrjs,o 
Nsrn(nu exe tihgrs seesr exn 
tih ex(ny tih rsI
&nf o(nf(nu ihe xil ei liry 
l(ex iexsrjI
BiEs *i(n hj in  Pblssy er(H 
io s1C(esEsne nf js,obCx,,snusI 
5ih Et CiEs Cy  seesr

---------------------------------------------------

February 22, 1983The TartanPage 5
Rosenblatt analyzes '84 presidential elections
By MICHAEL ROSENBLATT
Tartan Staffwriter
Last week, the Dow Jones passed the 1100 
mark for the second dme in history. The 
Federal Reserve Board reported that manufacturers operations raised one-half point to 
67.8% of capacity. Even Louis 
Rukeyser has announced that
 i economic recovery' is here.
^Put away your confetti, 
hough. The Brandt Commission, an interjtional panel which studies global develjpment problems, urged the major powers 
to take unified emergency measures to pre
vent an economic collapse that they expect 
to bring about wide-spread political insta
bility. Former Secretary of State Henry Kisanger, in a recent arucle and interview, 
declared a need for further emphasis on the 
economic problems of newly industrialized 
and lesser developed countries. Although 
he drop of $3/barrel oil prices by the British 
md Scandanavians will save money for 
Americans, nations such as Mexico and 
Argentina will have an increased debt. They 
depend on high oil revenues to pay for devel>ment programs. It is widely reported that 
janks which made a number of risky 
loans to Third World nations are already 
lying to coerce the U.S. government into 
guaranteeing these loans. Default would be 
beneficial to no one. Paul Volker, Chairman 
the Federal Reserve plans on making 
ighter restrictions of foreign loans.
What does this have to do with the Presi
dential election of 1984? If you have not been 
ading the papers, then you missed the 
announcement of well-known internation
alist Senator Alan Cranston from California 
In which he entered the race for Democratic 
lominee for President. On the other side, 
^resident Reagan is avoiding media cover
age on international problems and emphasELECTION *84 #
izing domestic issues, in what appears to b a 
campaign of his own to mollify hostile for
ces in the American populace.
The President has reversed the tradition 
that his predecessors had set, as their terms 
progressed, each of the other Presidents con
centrated more on foreign affairs. Johnson 
had Vietnam. Nixon visited China. Ford 
and Carter tried to settle Middle East 
problems.
What forms have Mr. Reagans efforts 
taken to match others early starts? While 
Secretary Schultz and Vice President Bush 
traveled abroad, the cameras caught our 
Commander-in-Chief chugging a few brews 
in a Boston pub. Unemployment is now a 
major concern that forced the Administra
tion to introduce to Congress their own jobs 
bill.Previous to last weeks White House 
conference, it was rumored that Lybian 
troops were converging on the LybianEgyptian borders. Despite this severe occurance, the questions and answers centered 
on domestic issues. The President restated 
that he would not cut Social Security.
After the international commission inves
tigating the Beirut massacre finished their 
report, Mr. Reagan refused to comment on 
the findings. The President said that this 
was an internal affair to be handled by the
democratic State of Israel, not the U.S.
Last Thursday, Senator Bary Hart of 
Colorado entered the race. Hart has been 
described as the Kennedy-esque candidate 
for the Democrats. By the way, Senator 
Edward Kennedy dropped out of the run
ning last year for family reasons. On ABCs 
Nightline, Hart started his campaign on 
the stand that he supports new ideas. The 
Senator left that term undefined. It is known 
that he desires a grass root campaign. 
Hart had been in charge of fund raising for 
McGoverns campaign in 1972.
What about the other Democrats? Senator 
John Glenn and ex-Vice President Walter 
Mondale are believed to be the heavies for 
the Convention. They have yet to declare 
their entrance into the race. John Glenn, 
besides being extremely charismatic, has the 
type of Apple Pie image that could coun
ter Mr. Reagan and take Mr. Glenn from 
outer space to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, 
N.W. Fritz Mondale, an ex-Humphreyite, 
needs to tear himself from his Carter-image. 
A recent Time article quotes Eugene 
McCarthy as saying: John Glenn is run
ning as Eisenhower, Walter Mondale is run
ning as Hubert Humphrey, and Gary Hart 
is running as John Kennedy. The entries 
are not closed, though. Later runners are 
expected to be Governor Askew of Florida 
and Senator Emest Hollings of South 
Carolina.
Will President Reagan run for the Repub
lican nominations uncontested? It appears 
that Reagan, a shrewd politician, has tied 
up two potential major contenders in his 
own Administration.. George Bush is, of 
course, Vice President. John Doles wife was 
continued on page 7
Several rats sighted near Skibo
By CLARKE V. SIMMONS
Tartan Staffwriter
A rat, yes a Rattus norjegicus for you 
biology majors, was sighted behind the Kil
tie Cafe. Several CMU students have 
reported spotting large, furry rats at distan
ces of as little as four feet.
On Saturday February 12, Debra Yasinow 
was the first student to spot a rat and report 
it to food service. Since then several other 
students have seen rats. This has sparked the 
latest of a series of rat wars the University has 
waged against its resident rodents.
Director of food service Ken Stover reports 
that the response to any rat sighting is an 
immediate call to the exterminator who usu
ally arrives within a few hours.
Stover, along with Bob Choate, associate
director erf food service, said that they have 
no evidence of rats in the food preparation 
or storage areas. They also stressed that every
thing possible will be done to fight off the 
rats now that the problem has reached their 
attention.
The exterminator contracted to provide 
pest control campus wide is J.C. Ehrlich Co. 
Inc. Michael A. LaCivita, the District Man
ager for Ehrlich, said he believes that it (the 
rat problem) is under control or at least we 
are on top of it. LaCivita went on to say 
that normally his people check for tell-tale 
signs of rats on a weekly basis, and bait traps 
and burrow holes with chemicals called 
rodentcides.
Additionally LaCivita said he would per
sonally look into the problem and have his 
employees check the situation daily.
SHAKE YOUR BOOTY
Its a record sale! Get down fast 
and get your favorite albums for 
$2.98 and up.
THIRD ANNUAL BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING SYMPOSIUMMARCH 3,1983 WHERRETTROOM, SKIBO
^Top Artists 
#Major labels 
# Hundreds of 
selections - pop to classic 
Stereo LP Albums 
Cassettes/Box Sets
RRY! Limited Offer only.
emu bookstcre<
IN BAKER HALL
8:45 AM 
9:00-10:30 AM 
10:45-11:45 AM
2:00-3:00 PM
3:15-4:35 PM 
4:45 PM
Coffee and Donuts
Morning Session
Dr. Herbert Needleman 
Children s Hospital 
Pittsburgh, PA
Dr. Robert Dedrick 
National Institutes of Health 
Bethesda, Maryland
Afternoon Session
Social Hour
All Are Welcome

---------------------------------------------------

Student Senate Elections
March 9 & 10, 1983
Seats Available:
CFA 4 (1 half-term)
CIT 5
MCS 4 (1 half-term)
H&SS 2
AMS 1
Petitions Available at Skibo Information Desk
Due 3/2/83
Funded By Activities Fee
Student Government
Presidential Election
March 9 & 10, 1983
All Activities Fee Paying Students are Eligible
Petitions Available at Skibo Information Desk
Due 3/2/83
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Barner speaks
Arms control discussed
By CAROL JANIK
Special to The Tartan
Tim Barrier was the goest speaker at the 
bi-weekly meeting of the CMU Peace 
Alliance that took place last Thursday in 
Skibo Room 12. The topic of the meeting 
was the Bilateral Nuclear Weapons Freeze 
Campaign.
Mr. Bamer is Executive Director of the 
Pittsburgh Chapter of the World Federalists 
Association, a non-profit educational 
organization devoted to world peace. Earlier 
this month he attended the National Confer
ence of the Freeze Campaign in St. Louis, 
and his talk focused on the activities of the 
Conference and the goals of the Campaign.
The Bilateral Nuclear Weapons Freeze 
campaign is a grass-roots movement which 
began about three years ago as a result of 
public concern about the nuclear arms race. 
One of the primary goals of the Campaign is
Can Democrats unite?continued from page 5
just appointed Secretary of Transportation. 
Senator Howard Baker of Tennessee 
appears to be the only free Republican who 
could dent Mr. Reagan. Such a campaign is 
unlikely, though.
Questions concerning who will highlight 
the Democrats race is less important than 
the question of whether or not the Demo
crats can unify all the different interests in 
the end. They will need a solid, directioned 
force to beat the President. It is obvious that 
such an early start by the Democrats has 
triggered a response for similar action to be 
taken by the Republicans.
Allegheny Women's Centeran out patient medical clinic offering
* abortion counseling * free pregnancy tests
* personal counseling * birth control services
* gynecological care
362-2920 
Pregnancy Testing Center
201 S. Craig Street (Oakland) 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213(412) 687-TEST
Both (enters will be open daily for pregnancy tests and counseling.
A 1 Medical Center East Building_ OvPenthouse Right (8th floor)V* 211 North Whitfield StreetAi Pittsburgh, PA 15206Center
to translate popular support for a freeze into 
public policy.
Early in March the House of Representa
tives will be voting on a resolution calling 
for a U.S.-Soviet Nuclear weapons freeze. 
More specifically, H.R. Resolution 2 says 
that as an immediate arms control objec
tive, the U.S. and Soviet Union should 
pursue an immediate and complete halt to 
the nuclear arms race; decide when and how 
to achieve a mutual and verifiable freeze on 
the testing, production and further deploy
ment of nuclear warheads, missiles and 
other delivery systems; and proceeding from 
this freeze, pursue major, mutual and verifi
able reductions.
The Freeze Campaign endorses the reso
lution and is organizing a Citizens Lobby 
in Washington, D.C. on March 7 and 8. The 
CMU Peace Alliance is organizing a con
tingent from campus. If you are interested in 
traveling to D.C. to demonstrate your sup 
port of the freeze, you should plan to attend 
the next meeting of the CMU Peace Alliance 
on March 2, or contact Tim Bamer at 471- 
7852. If you cannot make it to Washington, 
the Campaign recommends that you write 
or call your representatives and urge them to 
vote in favor of the resolution.
February 22, 1983The TartanPage 7
TIM BARNER
Marcelle's Typing Service
Specializes in Word 
Processing
ThesesManuscriptsResearch/term 
papersresumes/repetitive letters 
(TurabianAPAMLA strongly observed)
Fast Efficient Reasonable 
Call Ms. West 371-3657 
(24 hour service)
10% discount with coupon
ACQUIRE A UNIQUE 
PERSPECTIVE AT LITTON
DATA SYSTEMS
If youd like to begin your engineering career with a company that looks at 
everything from all angles and explores even the most remote possibilities, come 
to Litton Data Systems.
Ever since computer technology was recognized as a vital part of military 
operations, Litton Data Systems has been searching for new ways to meet the 
challenging needs of our nations defense systems. We are dedicated to 
continuous research and development in the areas of command, control and 
communications (C3) systems to provide products of greater reliability, 
maintainability and cost efficiency.
As one of the largest divisions of Litton Industries international family, we can 
get your engineering career off to a great start with opportunities in a variety of 
engineering disciplines. And the diversity of our programs offer continuous 
possibilities for challenge and advancement within the company.
Our salaries are excellent and our benefits package includes health, dental and 
life insurance, recreational facilities and educational reimbursement. Youll also 
find our Southern California location very appealing.
If you would like to be a part of a company thats never satisfied with things as 
they are, join Litton Data Systems and acquire our unique perspective.
BEHhj 2nesrL(sl 0rCx 6ex
Forward your resume to:
Jim Robertson 
Staffing & Placement 
Dept. CM 
8000 Woodley Avenue 
Van Nuys, CA 91409
Equal Opportunity Employer
m DATA SYSTEMS
Litton
A charismatic 
prayer 
every
night at 8 p.m 
at Mellon 
Institute 
Bellefield Ave. 
(Across from 
Heinz Chapel) 
Oakland, Pa. 
call Rege lor 
4 information; 
ASAbP6ROI

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanFebruary 22, 1983
CMU '63 grad to direct ITC
photo by Sri Rajan
The recent good weather has speeded the construction of the Information Technology 
Center, shown here as an architects model.
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Assistant News Editor
While CMU students have been suffering 
through their workloads and the belated 
winter snow that has been dumped on Pitts
burgh, the builders working on the Infor
mation Technology Center (ITC) have been 
moving right along, according to Fred 
Rogers, vice president of Business Affairs at 
CMU. Although construction is a litde 
behind schedule, Rogers is really 
impressed with the builders, and com
mented that until recently, the weather ... 
could hardly have been better.
Rogers projected the steel rods composing 
the frame of the building will go up around 
the end of February. The concrete has been
"Right to Work" legislation introduced
Legislation introduced in the Pennsylva
nia State House by Representative Fred C. 
Noye (R-Perry), and eleven other House 
members which would protect students 
frorri compulsory unionism was hailed last 
week as a step toward correcting one of the 
major abuses of compulsory unionism in 
Pennsylvania.
Albin W. Simokat, President of Pennsyl
vanians for Right to Work, also praised the 
bills sponsors for recognizing a major flaw 
in Pennsylvanias labor relations. House 
Bill 175 would amend Pennsylvanias Lit
de Wagner Act of 1937 to protect any stu
dent who is enrolled in a full time program 
of secondary, vocational or higher educa
tion from forced union membership. The 
legislation was referred to the House Labor 
Relations Committee.
It is unfair that students must pay union 
dues in exchange for so-called benefits 
which are, for the most part, unavailable to 
part time employees. This situation particu
larly discriminates against middle income 
students who need employment to continue 
their education, commented Simokat. I 
would hope, Simokat continued, that the 
merits of this legislation would be selfevident and it would attract broad support 
in the General Assembly.
Pennsylvanians for Right to Work will be 
urging student groups throughout the com
monwealth to support H.B. 175. Our expe
rience has been that students support the 
Right to Work principle because it is mor
ally and philosophically sound, said Simo
kat. He added, This Student Freedom of 
Choice Bill presents the Right to Work prin
ciple in its simplest terms  the right of an 
individual to work at a job of his or her 
choice without paying tribute to union 
officials.
The Student Coalition for Employment 
Freedom is being organized on several col
lege campuses throughout Pennsylvania to 
speak out for the legislation. Robert Holste, 
a student at the New Kensington campus of 
the Pennsylvania State University and 
David Schwager, a junior at Lafayette Col
lege are the co-chairmen of the coalition.
Pennsylvanians for Right to Work is a 
coalition of employers and employees from 
all walks of life, including union members, 
who believe that every worker should have 
the right to join a labor union and the corol
lary right to refrain from joining, without 
losing his or her job.
poured in and the rods have been put Up 
On the site, some digging is still going 0tl 
and the big hole there is the approximate 
shape of the subbasement of the ITC. ^ 
ITC will be connected to the basement o( 
Warner Hall.
Jim Morris, CMU 63 Mathematics, isi^ 
new director of the ITC. Morris was fo,. 
merly employed by Xerox Corporation j 
Palo Alto, California, and will direct the 
new computer program at CMU. He com. 
mented it was going to be exciting an(j 
added he thinks CMU has more compute 
power per student than any other universi^ 
in the country.
Currently, the IBM people are housed in 
the top floor of the GSIA building, and the 
computers are in the basement of the Hu 
Library. When everything is moved in, the 
IBM people will occupy part of the topflo 
of the ITC; the computation center will take 
up much of the rest of the ITC. The Compy. 
ter Science department will move into the 
space vacated by the Computation Center.
Police report
continued from page 1
the weekend.
The police director also reports a firecracker explosion in an elevator in Morewood Gardens in the C tower,- causing 
damage to the fifth floor carpeting. The 
automobile which turned up inside Pi 
Lambda Phi fraternity a couple of weeks 
ago was found by police outside near the 
retaining wall. Two windows were broken 
in the Margaret Morrison building which 
Fadzen attributes to criminal mischief.
IMMIGRATION AND CITIZENSHIP
LAW
PERSONAL INJURY CLAIMS
NO CHARGE FOR INITIAL 
CONSULTATION
Call Anytime: 281-4130 or 361-7911
ROBERT A. CREO 
GARY S. STEINER 
Attorneys at Law
Appointments Available in Downtown, 
Oakland , Squirrel Hill and Morningside 
locations days, evenings and Saturdays.
Philip Bromberg, previously a chemistry professor at CMU wishes to 
inform his former colleagues and the CMU community at large that he 
is now engaged in the practice of law, and would welcome the 
opportunity to renew his relationships with his former associates in his 
new capacity.
J. PHILIP BROMBERG, PhD., J.D.
Attorney at Law 
2I5 Grant Building 
Pittsburgh, PA I52I9 
(412) 391 -2606
GM/G&M/ DTMMCAT-LSAT-GMAT SAT-DAT-GRE - CPA
Permanent Centers open days, evenings and weekends Low hourly cost. Dedicated fulltime staff.Complete TEST-n TAP vfacilities for review of class lessons and supplementary materials Small classes taught by skilled instructors.
 Opportunity to make up missed lessons. Voluminous home-study materials constantly updated by research ers expert in their field. Opportunity to transfer to and continue study at any of our over 85 centers.
OTHER COURSES AVAILABLE
GRE PSYCH & BIO  MAT  PCAT  OCAT  VAT  TOEFL 
MSKP  NMB  VQE  ECFMG  FLEX  NOB  NLE
Essex House LI 2
adzensyvrnt earsah
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938
-H.
hi Corners Center, Negley & Baur 
*  Pittsburgh, Pa 15206
661-2772
THE LATEST IN ELECTRONIC GAMES/PINBALL MACHINES
Domestics
12 oz. & 16 oz. cans (& quarts) 
STROHS
LOWENBRAU It., Dk - bottles
MICHELOB
BUDWEISfR
MILLER
01D ENGLISH 800 
SCHLITZ MALT 
IRON CITY 
ERL ANGER - bottles 
GENESSEE 
ROILING ROCK 
SCHMIDTS 
PABST 
SCHLITZ
PEARL (Texas)bottles 
DOUBLE DARK bottles 
BLATZ 
PIEIS
OLD MILWAUKEE 
PINK CHAMPALE bottles 
COLT 4S 
MILLER LITE 
MICHELOB LITE 
IRON CITY LIGHT
FEATURING 22 VARIETIES OF SUBS
Steak  Corned Beef  Tun* Turkey
SANDWICHES
Haddock  Cod  Ground Steak  Sausage 
Veal  Chuck * Chicken Parmeson
SPECIALTY ITEMS
Sieok Subs  Fresh Cut french Fries 
Hot Oogs with choice ol 12 condiments 
Puzo served till 3 arrt
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
Serving beer Sunday I pm 2 om 
Imports Cons Quarts .Draft Pitchers Mugs 
Your Choice of 6 Draft Beers 
HEINEKEN  MOLSON ALE  MICHELOB 
STROHS  MILLERS  SCHLIIZ MALT
One different Ifc oi 6 pK 
featured eoch week
STROHS  ROLLING ROCK  SCHLITZ 
OLD ENC LISH 800  SCHLITZ MALT  PABST
Imports
BECK S It 0* Germony 
BASS ALE inglanri 
HARP LAGfR Irelond 
MOLSON GOLDEN Conodo 
HEINEKEN It Otr Hollow! 
LOWENBRAU G< ."'ion*
0 KEEFE ALE Canodn 
PltSNER URQUELl 
KIRIN Jopon
MACKESS0N STOUT lielond 
010 VIENNA LAGER Conodo 
55 LAGER Conodo
ST PAULI GIRL Germony 
DOS fQUIS XX Menco 
JOHN COURAGE England 
WATNETS England 
CARISBERG ElfPHANt Den 
CARISBERG ROVAIf Denmork 
CARISBERG DARK Denmork 
TSINGTA0 Ch.no 
HACKER PSCH0RR Germony 
tABATT S Conodo 
MUR PH r Irelond 
COOPER K SON Australia 
FOSTiR S LAGER Austtol.o
HOT DOG SHOPS, INC.
Open
9am 3 45om Sun Thurs 
9am 4 45om Fri Sat 
Call 621 7388 or 621 1185 
3901 Forbes Ave (Oakland) 
Pgh PA I 5213

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
enerations Together joins youths & elders
jy PAULINE KRAMER
tartan Features Editor
Checkers. Television. Rocking. Sleeping. 
ie terrible loneliness. Nothing to do and 
ie rest of a lifetime to do it in.
Picture yourself in about 40 or 50 years, 
jo more classes. Or wild parties. Your 
Ireer will have ended; probably the only 
jeople around are your spouse and a few 
lyal, nearby friends.
Bv the time the gray wisps outnumber the 
[olden locks, youll have had witnessed the 
[littering results of four years of hard labor. 
Ind youll have amassed an abundance of 
jmething, which proves to be quite elusive 
It school but is almost overwhelming as a 
enior citizen: time.
You can brighten the life of an elderly 
erson and all it takes is two hours a week.
Generations Together is a group of 
Irograms at the University of Pittsburgh 
jnded by ACTION, a national volunteer 
Igency. The Pitt program is selfIxplanatory: Generations Together 
ittempts to bridge the gap between young 
Ind old by having student volunteers visit 
lome-bound elders. Aside from the obvious 
enefits for the elders, the volunteers reap 
leir share of rewards.
One student said that the program offers 
balance for the technical classes, 
tplained Heather Newman, program coorlinator of Youth in Service to Elders/ 
roung volunteers in ACTION 
(ISTE/YVA), the newest program sponjred by Generations Together.
Newman cited other incentives for visitig the elders: students miss their relatives 
|nd see the elder members as substitute 
randparents; they wanted to do someling worthwhile; they wanted another 
jmponent in their life; and they wanted to 
lake good use of their time.
Generadons Together has been nationlllv recognized since 1978; Newman has 
en acdve with the program since the midlie of last October. Leslie Weiss, the student 
[ssistant working on a degree from Pitt in 
3unselor education, has been participating 
[nee December. A proud smile spread
across Newmans face when she told of the 
70 volunteers. To me, thats a lot of peo
ple, she beamed. And the 65 elders are 
assured of a companion.
The majority of volunteers are from local 
high schools. Taylor Allderdice High 
School can boast of 35 volunteers; most of 
them were persuaded by a psych/soc class 
teacher who was enthusiasdc about the pro
gram. He didnt require volunteering but he 
told them that it would be a good idea, said 
Newman, winking. Other student volun
teers are from CMU, Pitt, Sacred Heart and 
Central Catholic High Schools.
The elders usually come through word 
of mouth or a social service agent. The stu
dent and elder meet through a referral source 
from the agency, explained the coordinator 
and mother of four. If the elder independ
ently contacts Generations Together, New
man or one of the staff must interview the 
applicant.
A sort of aucuon enables the student to 
choose the elder with the most individually 
preferable characterisucs such as age, sex, 
race, interests, and most importantly, prox
imity of the elders home to the students. 
Newman said most students pick the elders 
home closest to theirs.
Newman said volunteers are covered by 
liability insurance; the program also pro
vides reimbursement for transporta don, bus 
tickets, references, and of course, valuable 
career experience which will undoubtedly 
impress any prospecdve employer. A little 
more incendve to volunteer is in the form of 
a big bash that well probably have at the 
end of the year with all the students 
involved, said Newman. Were trying to 
take out as many reasons not to volunteer as 
possible.
If you would like to put two hours a week 
to invaluable use, contact Heather Newman 
in Pitts Thackery Hall at 624-5469, or this 
writer at 578-4609. Newman noted that one 
student was even willing to walk up to two 
miles to visit her companion; you never 
know what you might learn from someone 
with three-fourths of a century of experien
ces and memories.
HEATHER NEWMAN
photo by Pauline Kramer
A Phi O collects UPC's for 
girl with kidney disease
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Features Editor
Some are thick. Some are thin. Theyre on 
almost everything you buy. In fact, you see 
them so often on various products that you 
probably dont even nodce them anymore. It 
will help a 13-year-old girl with a kidney 
deficiency if you start to nodce them.
UPCs, an acronym for Universal Product 
Codes, are the official-looking black lines 
with the space-age numbers beneath them 
that seem to be tattoed on all purchases. By 
tearing off the coded section of the wrapper 
or empty package and dropping it into one 
of the various UPC receptacles stauoned 
around the campus you can help this little, 
girl.
According to Richard Ketz, treasurer of 
Alpha Phi Omega, the organization taking 
up the cause at CMU, 100 UPCs will pay 
for one minute of the necessary six-hourweekly total of hemodialysis treatment. My 
church found out about it and decided to 
take up the cause, explained the sopho
more. I figured since we were a service fra
ternity it would be a great project.
The codes will be collected at the end of 
the semester, given to the girls family (who 
wishes to remain anonymous), turned into 
the sponsoring foundation and then sent to 
corporations who pay the foundation. Ketz 
compared this community to the efforts of 
the Ronald McDonald House.
As of now, the UPC receptacles are in 
Morewood, Donner, Mudge, Mellon Insti
tute, the second floor of Wean Hall near the
vending machines, and outside of the Book
store. A Phi O just made up about a dozen 
more to be distributed last weekend in areas 
such as Doherty and Woodlawn Apart
ments, Warner Hall, Entropy, and the offcampus apartments.
Ketz figures that approximately 5,000 
codes have been collected, which will pay for 
fifty minutes  less than one-sixth of the 
necessary treatment for one week. Many 
more are needed, so the next time youre 
about to toss out that Snickers wrapper, old 
Newsweek or Crest toothpaste box ... dont.
Pittsburgh hosts HOTT
ITS HOTT! ... The Home of Tomorrow 
Today (HOTT) will be featured at the 1983 
Pittsburgh Home & Garden Show from 
March 18 to 27 at the David L. Lawrence 
Convention Center. This fully-furnished 
contemporary home will be open to the pub-i 
lie throughout the shows ten days.
HOTTs innovative design uses current 
products and building materials, as well as 
solar applications and computer technol
ogy, to present a Pittsburgh home that is on 
the cutting edge of residential design and 
function.
Other highlights of the show will be 
Neighborfair: a celebration of Pittsburghs 
neighborhoods; 7,500 square feet of gardens 
and hundreds of exhibits and 
demonstrations.
Hypnotism does wonders
ctor of Housing Tony Martinpreparing for next years incoming freshmen?
By DOUG BLAIR
Tartan Staffwriter
Hypnosis is a term frequently maligned 
in our society. We tend to connect it with 
circus sideshows, late-night movies and 
comic books. The dictionary is not much 
help either: Hypnosis  an induced state 
which resembles sleep and in which the sub
ject is responsive to the suggestions of the 
inducer. What is hypnotism, really? What 
does it do?
According to Janice Nasiadka, a regis
tered hypnotist living in the Pittsburgh area,
virtually anything can be accomplished 
with the aid of hypnotism. Anything the 
imagination can think of, she said, Its 
great for phobias. Its also a frame of mind 
thats most conducive to learning. Nasi
adka described most practical hypnotism 
as being derived from Behaviorist 
psychology.
Nasiadka speaks from experience; she 
began studying hypnotism seriously about 
five years ago, after her sister was murdered 
by an unknown assailant. The police made 
continued on page 11

---------------------------------------------------

lot of domino-tapping in the name of ^ 
dent sanity.
On a broader level, Cox works with IW 
Brad Waltei on student development ai* 
information programs such as Freshman 
Orientation, Student Affairs Forums, am 
the newly organized Junior Class Commit 
tee. She works with students and other 
administration members planning am 
implementing these activities, as well as tak 
ing on budgeting responsibilities.
The Dean took her undergraduate degrq 
at Stanford University. How did she endm 
at Camegie-Mellon? Well, when the tiny 
came for Lois Cox to re-enter the job mark 
there were no parking spaces at Pitt. Thai 
right; we have our terrific parking systemk 
thank for bringing us Dean Cox. Andasa 
of those who work with her will tell you 
were very lucky that Pitts lots were full,
for the night. An administration official 
informed Dean Cox that she had one half 
hour to come up with a way to sleep all of
Panther Hollow caused a power failure dur
ing finals week? The outage was so com
plete that there were no bells on the 
telephones-someone sat in student affairs 
pushing successive buttons and saying 
Hello, Student Affairs! for hours. Night 
was falling, and everyone was very nervous. 
Dean Cox made a tour of Pittsburghs hard
ware stores and departments and came back 
with one hundred flashlights (with batter
ies) for die resident assistants to use.
Dean Cox serves as financial adviser for 
student organizations. She attends student 
meetings of all sorts six or seven days each 
week. Her office is the center for student 
notebook organization record-keeping; one 
entire wall is covered with green notebooks. 
Shes well suited for this area of her responsi
bilities, as she was senior cost accountant 
with Alcoa for several years.
Student Affairs programs. And Dean Cox 
deals with emergencies.
Take, for instance, the time a few years
photo by Scott Safier
LOIS COX
Music that
OASIS
photo by John Stilwd
ESCAPE!: This victim of a Pi Lam pledge prank has had its fill of fraternity life.THOMPSON TWINSSIDE KICKS
SummerScholarships
(A&M)(Capitol)
(Arista) $6.99
(Capitol)Includes UES LOVE ON YOUR SIDE TEARS(Elektra)(Cieflen)
CLIP THIS COUPON! 
Its good for SI.04 off 
the ALREADY low sale 
price of these New 
Music albums or 
casettes. . .offer good 
only through 2 27 83 
one coupon per 
customer per purchase.
available!
Be a part of the Chautauqua experience this summer. Study and perform 
music, art, dance or theatre with the finest professionals in each specialty. 
After studies you'll enjoy concerts, opera, popular entertainers, plays and > 
all the fun a lakeside resort implies.
The Chautauqua Summer Schools of Fine and Performing Arts provide 
full term programs of intensive study with professionals such as Nathan 
Gottschalk in music (two levels of orchestra; voice and piano), Jean-Pierre 
Bonnefous in dance, Michael Kahn in theatre and Robert Gilson in art. 
Supplemental Master Classes provide additional training with outstanding 
visiting artists.
THEATRE SCHOOL AUDITIONS
CHAUTAUQUA THEATRE SCHOOL 
MARCH 10, 1983  5:00 PM 
MARGARET MORRISON HALL ROOM 210
Chautauqua Institution 1533 Colonnade Bldg. Chautauqua, NY 14722
CASSETTECASSETTE
CULTURE CLUBKISSING TO BE CLEVER1 The Lexicon 
Of Loveincluding
Do You ftostty Wan T* Hurt M*
Tim* (Ctoc* 0* Tht M TumM  VaI m Ah at O M* (FWnui) Love Twit
we JiANCYRIT
$6.99 SALE PRICE 
good thru 3 A 83AN AMEP'CAN INS1
HEversnc 1983 Summer Scholarships
A V/W  Awarded by application and auditum
Theatre
-I 1 ] Please Printbcnool \,,m<
Audition AJdr,.
March
10th
Chautauqua Institution 1533 Colonnade Bldg. Chautauqua, NY 14722
HAVEN17(Arista)
3712 Forbes Avenue 
Oakland . . .
Also Bethel Park. 
Mt knight Rd., 
Monroeville Mall
Page 10The TartanFebruary 22, 1983
The Warner Hall Weekly
Cox proves a valuable resource, emergency or not
By LINDA QUARRIE
Tartan Staffxvriter
Dean Cox is a resource for students. She 
advises student organizations, helps individ
uals with specific problems and works on
back when the new hearing system in Morewood Gardens became dangerously over
loaded and all the residents were evacuated 
to Skibo. It was winter and early evening. It 
didnt look like the building would be safe
Morewood Gardens somewhere else. 
Luckily the problem was solved early 
enough that no one had to sleep in the gym. 
Nevertheless, Dean Cox was on her toes. 
Or how about the time a system failure in
Students with specific problems and< 
fusions consistently approach the Deank 
solutions. Have you ever wondered whk 
Warner Hall domino should be pushed( 
to get you out of trouble? Dean Cox does

---------------------------------------------------

February 22. 1983The TartanPage 11
tage hypnosis gives the business a bad name
intinued from page 9
me use of a hypnotist in her sisters case to 
aact information from a pair of children 
ho had witnessed the crime. Nasiadka, 
-ho had taken a self-hypnosis course six 
rs previous to this, grew interested once 
ore in the field.
Currendy teaching courses at Allegheny 
immunity College in Dream Awareness 
Bid Self-Hypnosis II, she has spoken before 
mki Beta (an honorary psychology society), 
Ine a number of small lectures, and is also 
ftlding a weight reducdon class in her 
E>me.
Nasiadka said hypnotism is a tool, 
Hiother teaching aid for the student, which 
Borks by aligning your subconscious desires 
ith your conscious desires, so your full 
Jfort goes toward your goal. It is, therefore, 
Biportant the subject has some idea of what 
B wants to accomplish before he can expect 
suits from hypnosis. Were always lookHg for somebody to tell us what to do, said 
Hasiadka.
jl The stigma society puts on hypnotism 
Bsults from the circus sideshow-type arranJments. Nasiadka said, Stage hypnosis
causes harm because people watching it feel 
they wouldnt do such a thing. They feel the 
people on stage are doing things against 
their will, which is not the case at all. Those 
people up on stage are there because they 
feel comfortable with it. The majority of 
people watching this become very, very 
frightened of hypnosis. The subject is 
always in control.
Nasiadka continued, If the subject is not 
aware he has free choice, he may be more apt 
to do what the hypnotist says. Apparently, 
at any point in a session, a subject can leave 
the trance state, if he is aware he is in control.
The term trance doesnt appeal to Nasi
adka. It scares people. It implies they are 
out of it, completely out of control, and 
thats not the case at all, she said. Beyond 
the behavioral advantages to hypnotism, the 
study of hypnotism itself.leads the student to 
a greater awareness of mind-control tech
niques. You then become more aware of 
your Hitlers, your Jim Joneses, and soon. 
The progress of the student depends entirely 
on himself, said Nasiadka. Guarantees are 
not available; you can achieve only as much 
as you try.
The classroom, to Nasiadka, is merely a 
prod. She thinks the classroom is important 
only because it forces the student to work. 
You can leam ten times more outside of the 
classroom, she said, and she may be right. 
Her own program which led her to become 
a hypnotist was almost entirely composed of 
self-study and private research. Her studies 
continue, and she still does most of her work 
outside the classroom.
What about those tapes you see advertised 
hither and yon? Lose weight or your 
money back most of the ads read. It 
depends on the person listening to them. If 
the person really wants to accomplish what 
the tapes are saying, the tapes are extremely 
helpful. Its best to get more knowledge in 
the area before you rely on the tapes, Nasi
adka says. Are there good and bad tapes? 
Again she says, it depends on the person; 
some people will respond to tapes worded in 
a particualr way or spoken by a particular 
voice, which will simply set another person 
to laughing.
Nasiadkas work has led her to some inter
esting experiences. The first show I ever 
did, for the Community College Picnic, was
a really nice experience. I had hypnotized 
about 20 or 30 in the group, but there was 
one child who caught my eye. He was really 
doing a job with the imagery. I thought Id 
have him come up later and discuss his 
experience with the group. By the time I got 
everybody up, he was over playing with his 
friends. I said Hey, honey, come here. The 
thought went through his mind that I was 
going to hypnotize him and he went right 
out, on his way over to see me. It was scary, 
but it was neat.
Nasiadka stresses the subjectivity of the 
field; anything you leam must be applied to 
yourself. Its not merely absorbing the infor
mation, but being able to use it with yourself 
and, if you choose, with others. Ive never 
been able to zero on hypnosis as being just 
one thing, she said. I think its a nice 
tool.
How could you get started? Nasiadka said 
to take a course at any of the colleges, prefer
ably a self-hypnosis class as an introduc
tion. She mentioned libraries as sources for 
additional information on the topic of 
hypnotism.
AT HARRIS/PRD SUCCESS 
IS SPELLED  ......
)i
AT OUR ADVANCED 
TECHNOLOGY CENTER 
IN SYOSSET, LONG ISLAND,
HARRIS/PRD TOUCHES ____ _
THE PULSE OF THE ATE :::::::: *'
TECHNOLOGY WORLDWIDE
WELL BE ON CAMPUS
MARCH 2nd
TO INTERVIEW GRADUATING  pi i ,  x , 
PROFESSIONALS IN THE 
FOLLOWING BSIMS DISCIPLINES ,

 ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
 ELECTRICAL TECHNOLOGY
 COMPUTER SCIENCE
r
^ iiiiii A career with HARRIS PRO means professionalgrowth within one of the most advanced environments in the industry. On a personal tevel, HARRIS PRD is proud to offer professionals a positive, active, and !::H:! supportive environment where individual potential is jjjijjjj fully realized in a "team" approach.
If you are unable to meet with us on MARCH 2,1983 we invite graduating professionals in the above disciplines to forward resumes, to:
HARRIS Corporation ^ ^ IPRD Electronics DivisionRENEE RUBIN, Personnel Office ,. . . _ .. :::::::: n Eguf Oppotun,t, {mCio<. m r6801 Jericho TurnpikeSyosset, New York 11791 ::::::::516-364-0400, ext 2286 ::::::::

---------------------------------------------------

*******
Order Your This'tls
/VOW// ***** * *

0~u S"t ha Ke a. Check ou"t to__
Thistle /for #15-
Send -this -to:
NAME:__________________________ AMT. ENCLOSED
ADDRESSi____________________________________ ^---*

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
oyalties are tested in 
'Lords of Discipline"
By JOHN CANTINE .
Tartan Associate Entertainment Editor
Following in the success of Taps and An 
Officer and A Gentleman ...
You will probably be hearing leads like 
that from many critics in the next few weeks.
The Lords of Discipline tells the 
story of young men caught in a 
tough military school, and so it 
is natural to think of it as an 
[tempt to cash in on what success Taps And 
in Officer and A Gentleman achieved. This 
-K)Vie deserves better treatment, though.
The story, based on the novef by Pat Conoy, concerns Will McClean, a senior cadet 
t the Carolina Military Institute, class of 
964. Will is independent and a little cocky, 
he type that usually does not do well at a 
jghtly-diciplined military academy.
In fact, Will has not done well, and only 
rsonal attention from tough Colonel 
Bear Baronowski (Robert Prosky) has 
ept him in the Institute at all. That story, 
owever, is past. Will has come to accept the 
Institute and its ideals, and the Institute has 
ccepted him.
As Will begins his senior year, however, 
Bear calls in his debt. For among the new 
dets  the knobs  is a young black 
man, Pearce (Mark Breland). Racial hatred 
is strong, and is shared by everyone, includ
ing Bear himself. But his job is to take care of 
the cadets, his lambs, and he gives Will 
orders to make sure Pearce is given the same 
chance as any other cadet to become the 
superior breed of man America needs, and 
which the Institute provides. Will reluc
tantly agrees, and enlists his even more 
reluctant roommates to help him.
Will soon finds out the Ten involves a lot 
more than just ten cadets, and he and his 
roommates suffer for running afoul of them. 
The search for the Ten, their attacks on 
Will, and his ultimate revenge form a fasci
nating story'.
Wills job as Pearces protector eventually 
forces him to question the Institute, its 
ideals, and his own personal code of behav
ior. It will also bring him up against the 
Ien, a mysterious society of cadets whose 
rigin is shrouded in legend, and whose job 
is to make sure the Institute is kept pure, free 
from inferior men both white and black.
The strength of this film, however, lies 
not in the plot, but in the characters, and the 
actors who portray them. There is not much
to say about the acting, except it is, without 
exception, great. Special mention must go, 
however, to Rick Rossovich, as Wills 
roommate Dante Pig Pignotti. He por
trays the doggedly loyal, not-too-bright Pig 
with delightful rowdiness. He obviously 
had fun playing the role, and the audience 
shares in the fun.
All of the characters, in fact, exude a 
Happy-Days type of friendly enthusiasm, 
but with language that would have Marion 
Cunningham on the floor in a dead faint. In 
a way all too rare in movies today, one beg
ins to actually care about the characters, to 
become involved in their struggles. The 
audience really wants to see Will win, and to 
win on his own terms.
And Wills methods of stopping the Ten 
are refreshingly non-violent. Rather than go 
on a rampage with a sub-machine gun, or 
the kinds of sadistic tortures most military' 
trainees leam, Will goes about very 
shrewdly, and very realistically, exposing 
the Ten.
This, unfortunately, could be the movies 
major liability. After seeing the cruelty the 
Ten dish out, even the most peaceful of 
viewers will want Will to give them some of 
their own treatment. Wills non-violent stra
tegy does not provide the kind of catharsis 
audiences will be expecting, and the film 
may flop at the box office.
That would be a shame; for a movie as 
funny, as exciting, and as sensitive as The 
Lords of Discipline to flop because it isnt 
violent enough would be a sad commentary 
on the movie-going public.
photo by Rhoda Funk
Bolette (Claire Beckman) and Amholm (Thom Deluenthal) talk things over in Ibsens Lady 
from the Sea, a Studio Theatre production performed last week.
Student playwright discusses drama
By SUSAN BOSSI
Tartan Staffivriter
Scotch n Soda staged this weekend two 
one-act plays written by Alice Alfonsi, a jun
ior majoring in professional and creative 
writing at CMU. These plays are titled The 
Bible Calls it Fornication and Fate.
Alfonsi began to write drama in junior 
high school in the form of small skits and 
continued to leam about the production of 
plays and scripts in her high school years. 
She later took an acting class to better under
stand how actors develop their characters.
Alfonsi has written five one-act plays. In 
1980, she was awarded the Scholastic Maga
zine Honorable Mention in the National 
Playwrighting Competition.
Scotch 'n' Soda presents 
two Alfonsi original dramas
By GREGG BOSSLER
Tartan Managing Editor
Love is so misused a word. ... it has 
nothing to do with lust, and the mixing up 
of the two is one of the reasons were in such 
tumble emotionally.  Gore J'idal
. Ilie alxne is the epigraph attached to The Bible Calls It Fornication, the better of I wo 
one-act dramas written by Alice 
Alfonsi and prcxluced last weekend by 
Scotch n Sixla; tin* other one-act is entitled 
l'ale.
Bible is a n-excellent effort by Alfonsi. I lie 
show is written in a direct and deceptively 
S1|nple manner, relle< ted by the sparse use of 
Ml and the double tasting o oles. 1 he 
shows message shines through the dial()Rue. but its this directness which verges 
n pieacliiness, although still not managinM to hurt the- play.
Alfonsi creates live characters which arc 
n,>l only interesting Inn involving, taking
you out of the theater seat and into the 
action. John (Mike Osgood) begins the 
show by asking his Priest (Dave Liebeskind) 
during confession if, and why, fornication is 
a sin.
The narrative then flashes back to the 
night John lost his virginity to thebarmaidslash-slut Rosie (Marthe Cotton) who he 
picket! up in a dive with the help of the 
bartender (Dave Liebeskind), betause he had 
a fight with his girl friend (Marthe Cotton). 
The action mov es .from confessional to girl 
friends apartment to bar, and back again; it 
is effectively well-written staging.
The acting enhanced the script, mostly 
from Cotton with her adept |x>rtrayalsof her 
ioles. She not onlv jx rlonnetl the characters 
of piim-antl-projxi Mary and rough-andready Rosie realistically, but made* the tran
sitions I x tween the two very smoothly. 
Lielxskiml also did well going from the 
Priest to bartender
continued on page 24
Inspiration for the five plays stems from 
the television series Insight. Each program 
in the series was focused on a moral or philo
sophical question and possible solutions to 
that question.
Another form of inspiration or direction 
for Alfonsi is poetry. She stated, I see the 
two forms of writing as interchangeable or 
complementary; I enjoy adapting poetry to 
the stage.
A major influence on Alfonsis writing is 
playwright Tom Stoppard, especially his 
work titled Rosencrantz and Guildenstem 
Are Dead. She also respects realists like 
Arthur Miller who do not concentrate on 
the abstract.
Alfonsi leans toward the one-act play at 
this point because she sees playwriting from 
an evolutionary' standpoint. In other 
words, she sees her work as inferior in three 
acts. Because she sees a future goal as being 
an authoress playwright, she wants to mas
ter the one-act before she advances further. 
In addition, Alfonsi likes to develop char
acters in a short period of time to establish 
an effective conflict and situation of interest. 
Alfonsi noted a schizophrenic approach to 
her method of characterization. Because she 
becomes each of her characters as she writes, 
she never knows how a story will end until 
it does.
A problem Alfonsi has encountered in 
writing for the stage is patience. She said, 
Directing and acting will take what I have 
written in other directions - - I cant have 
total control.
When asked how she felt about seeing her 
plays on stage, Alfonsi noted that, just as it 
was in high school, it is still scary because of 
peer pressure. However, she added, The 
first time I heard a w hole audience laugh at 
something I had written, I knew I had to be a 
playwright... nothing ever beat that thrill.
After talking to the directors of the plays 
and discussing improvements for a final 
rewrite, Alfonsi plans to solicit her writing 
in the form of playbooks to be used in high 
schools.
photo by Bill Hamnw rs< hlag 
Marthe (x>tti>n and Mike (Xgood cuddle up in The Bible Calls It Fornication.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanFebruary 22, 1983
"Brecht" revue fascinating
By VINCENT GUINTO
Tartan Contributing Editor
Brecht on Brecht, a musical play based on 
excerpts from the plays, poems, songs and 
other writings of Bertolt Brecht, is a fascinat
ing and often grim exploration of Brechts/
work. The selections range from 
farce to tragedy, yet each 
reflected the brilliance of the 
author equally well.
The first act was a collection of biographi
cal notes, often sarcastic parables and moral
ity plays, and other pieces which combined 
to establish Brechts philosophy of life as 
predominantly humanistic. The pieces did 
not seem very coherendy arranged, yet each 
was entertaining and the theme of the act 
became clearer as it progressed.
Act Two was much more ughtly organ
ized. It opened with staged quotations by 
Brecht explaining his theories of direction 
and playwrighting, then ventured into an 
exploration of his views on Nazi Germany.
Brecht, a German who left Germany fora 
neighboring country in the 1930s to avoid 
the Nazi uprising, found himself fleeing 
across Europe, and eventually to the U.S., in 
the 1940s to escape the encroachment of the 
German army. Brecht approached the sub
ject of Nazism by exploring the effects of the 
Nazi movement and the war on interper
sonal relationships in a series of scenes and 
songs. The majority of these scenes involved 
only one or two actors, allowing the casts 
individual talents to be showcased.
The cast consisted of four men and four 
women. The best was Elena Bertolino, 
whose acting and musical talents were best 
shown in two pieces in the second art, one a 
slighdy bawdy song with a poignant twist 
about the life of a soldiers wife, and the 
other a comical musical duel with Karla 
Boos.
In these scenes, and throughout the show, 
Bertolino carried her parts with a depth of 
emotion which surpassed the other 
members of the cast. Bertolino seemed to be 
truly enjoying her parts, and this joy carried 
through in her performance.
John Lang and Caryn Ronis also gave 
good performances throughout the play. 
Their best scene was the closing scene of the 
second act, with Lang playing a German 
doctor and Ronis his Jewish wife. This 
scene was by far the most memorable and 
moving in the play, and Lang and Ronis 
carried it off well. Maura Minteer also came 
across well, especially with her solo rendi
tion of Surabaya Johnny, a song about a 
wounded lover.
On the other hand, Karla Boos and Jim 
Robinson both provided rather dry perfor
mances. While technically satisfactory, 
neither seemed to put any feeling into their 
performances. Boos would display emotion 
while delivering her lines, but the display 
would end with her dialogue; in the musical 
duel opposite Bertolino, particularly, it was continued on page 21
photo by Rhoda Funk
Daryl Hall rocks out; soon he will be joined by partner John Oates at the Civic Arena on 
March 6.
Readings, soundshow form sWordance
By LAUREN SCHNEIDER
Tartan Staffxvriter
Last Thursday, the first sWordance read
ing was held at the Forbes Gallery. The 
sWordances are sponsored by the English 
department and provide undergraduate and 
graduate writers the opportunity to read 
their work in an informal setting. The read
ers for Thursdays sWordance were Patricia 
Dobler, Ann Daley, and Scott Alburger.
Dobler, a CMU poetry professor, read a 
number of poems about growing up in a 
mill town. In them, she chronicles the lives
of the men in her family, all of which 
worked in the mills since 1912. Other poems 
dealt with such subjects as jealousy in I Get 
Jealous of an Old Home Movie and child
hood fantasy in Paper Dolls.
The second reading was a short story by 
Daly, a senior writing major. The Man 
Sitting Next to Me was especially unique 
in its crafting. It included a series of time 
transitions which worked well to compare 
events from different times in the speakers 
life.
The reading closed with a combined read
ing and sound production by senior writer 
Alberger. Combining live reading with 
tapes of himself and others reading, he 
created some interesting sound and rhythm 
sensations. Especially effective was How 
You Move, first of the four pieces. Others 
were entitled Thematic Statement, The 
Lugger Head Continent and Fresh 
Produce.
The next sWordance will be held 
Thursday, February 24, at 7 p.m. The read 
ers will be Sue Stauffacher, Charly Rhoades 
and Kristin Kovacic.
What Do YOU Think? 
.. .About 24-hour libraries
The GCI Committee is conducting this survey, 
and your opinion is of crucial importance. If you are 
genuinely interested in using this service, please fill 
in the form below and return immediately:
24-hour libraries
Name:___
Address: 
Phone: _
Deadline for submitting survey: February 22 
Return to Skibo Desk, #59 as soon as possible

---------------------------------------------------

February 22, 1983The TartanPage 15
8latent I mage shows work of P. D. Ruby
5y CAROLYN TERNER
artan Staffwriter
A show of photographs, by P.D. Ruby 
,pened at the Blatent Image Gallery, on 
aturday, February 12. The photographs 
onsist of a variety of landscapes, buildings 
and figures.
The first group of three mini
ature, cropped images ot a boat 
(die image used for the poster), a 
inter landscape, and what appears to be a 
escape, are particularly intriguing because 
[ their smallness and their beauty. The next 
v0 images, one of trees over water, the other 
f an old, decayed wood cabin with deterioNow
UJomens
Health
Services
Two Pregnancy 
Testing Locations
OaklandRoom 212
Parkvale Plaza Buildings 
3520 Forbes Ave. (cor. Meyran) Pittsburgh. PA 15213 
(412) 683-3730
Downtown625 Stanwix Street 
12th FloorAllegheny Tower Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
(412) 562-1914
Free pregnancy testing daily. Call for hours 3nd 
instructions. Confidential counseling available.
HaiRMeTRICS
OAKLAND 
HO Bouquet Street
621-2087
Hairmetncs of Oakland is pleased to 
announce that it now offers die most 
complete BODY WAVE PACKAGE 
in the Oakland Area. Until March 5 
you can experience a
 Consultation
 Shampoo
 Haircut
 Conditioning
 Bod\ Wave 
-andFor $46.00
V\ith an additional $4.00 investment 
you will also receive a HOME CARE 
PACKAGE spentuallv designed for 
vou that consists ot a
 Shampoo
 Moistun/ei
 Protect lv Styling Lor ion 
-and
 Reconditioning Treaune r 
>o ioi the iotai < ost ot
$50.00
vou aie receiving in exciting toLil 
ook along vith the professional pro
ducts that wih meet voui desires anil 
Ufestvle with a SAVINGS up to 
$13.00
cALL NOW FOR YOUR 
APPOINTMENT
621-2087
Hc3|RMEE?TRICE5
rating furniture in front, show the artists 
sense of composition and a feel for what 
makes a good, eye-appealing photograph.
Two compositions, both studies of Vene
tian blinds, reveal a sensitivity to light and 
space. Another picture that is romantically 
appealing is a railroad track; it gives a sense 
of travel and of distance.
On the other side of the gallery, one color 
photograph shouts above the rest; it is a 
bright red shack covered with graffiti set 
against a Pittsburgh sky. Also, two lands
capes, one high-contrast and the other silver 
in tone, subtly appeal to their viewer in 
antithesis with the bright red house.
Two images of children, one by Alan 
Wiener, the other by Robert Pointon, grab 
the viewers attention, although one ques
tions what they are doing in Rubys show.
A group of four photographs deal with 
different people in different environments:
one is a woman dressed in a Playboy bunny 
suit; one is a workman in front of mans 
clothing store; one is a black man looking in 
the direction of a cigarette billboard adver
tisement; and the last is a woman looking at 
a Rolls Royce.
The last two photographs, one a multiple 
exposure of a record needle arm on a turnta
ble, and one of a machine-like structure in 
motion, are interesting in the sense that they 
are different from the rest of the photo
graphs  all except these two are primarily 
pictures of nature.
This is P.D. Rubys first one-man show; 
he is a self-taught photographer and has a 
degree in engineering.
The Gallery is located at 4626 Forbes 
Avenue, and has hours Wednesday through 
Friday 1-6 p.m., Saturday 11-7 p.m., and 
Sunday 1-6 p.m. The show will run until 
March 10.
This portrait was one 
Marla Kittler shown 
week.
photo by Scott Safier 
erf several paintings by 
at Forbes Gallery last
Engineering & Science Students
Study the Possibilities
A leader in systems engineering, MITRE offers career opportunities in 
Systems Analysis, Planning and Engineering for Military and Civil 
Communications, Air Traffic Control Systems and Advanced Information 
Systems.
The professional environment at MITRE is one of challenge, inde
pendence and innovation.
If you have a PhD or MS degree in Electrical or Systems Engineering, 
Computer Science, Math, Physics or are an outstanding B.S. graduate in 
these fields, wed like to talk to you. If you wish to arrange for an appoint
ment or require further details, please contact your placement office.
If you are unable to interview at this time, send your resume or a 
detailed letter of interest to: J.A. Goudarzi, The MITRE Corporation,
1820 Dolley Madison Boulevard, McLean, Virginia 22102. We are a 
GEM member employer. We welcome responses from minorities, 
females, veterans, and the handicapped. U.S. citizenship is required for 
employment in all national security related areas.
MITRE
Washington Center
Not for Profit. In the Public Interest

---------------------------------------------------

Engineering
is your
future
its ours too!
The highest engineering standards and 
most up-to-date technical resources 
have been critical influences in building 
Harris RF Communications into a world
leader.
We're a fast-moving, high-technology 
producer of sophisticated radio com
munications equipment and systems. Our 
projects involve some of the newest, 
most advanced technology in the areas 
of RF Circuit Design, Analog/Digital 
Design, Computer Hardware & Software, 
and Communications Systems Design, to
name a few.
And, our Rochester, NY location can pro
vide you with an outstanding quality of 
life-superior cultural and recreational op
portunities in almost any area you may 
be interested in. You'll find spectacular 
sporting events and activities, concerts, 
plays, films, beaches and parks, and
much more.
Like you, we've put a lot into getting 
where we are today. Like yours, our 
future successes will depend upon main
taining the highest level engineering stan
dards. For these reasons, ambitious, 
knowledgeable engineers are an essen
tial key to our future growth. If you're 
degreed in any of the following areas at 
the MS level, and are interested in a 
high-visibility, high-opportunity career, then 
contact us.
 Electronics Engineering
 Mechanical Engineering
 Computer Systems Engineering
 Computer Science
To learn all the facts about Harris RF and 
your many avenues for personal and 
professbnal growth with us, meet with 
our Company Representatives.
We will be interviewing on campus, 
Wednesday, March 2, 
Room 19, Warner Hall
Contact your College Placement Office for additional information or to schedule an appointment.
An Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F

---------------------------------------------------

I y [ - ________________Sports.
ed Cross instructs the blind to dive at CMU
RIC MEDROW
\rton Assistant Sports Editor
The original Valentine, who died restorsight to a blind girl, wQuld have been 
oUd" Last Monday, February 14, CMU 
dents in the American Red Cross Water 
ety Instructors class taught students 
im the Western Pennsylvania School for 
Blind how to dive.
The kids from Western Pa. already knew 
lW to swim thanks to their own instructor, 
t their own pool is too shallow for diving. 
,body ever thought that blind kids could 
,e However, Deanie Caputo from Westpa. and Earl Birdy of CMU thought 
erwise.
iidy says, My students have to build up 
t report with the kids in order to get 
m to dive into water they cant see. If you 
I went to the side of a pool and couldnt 
wed say, Now, wait a minute!  
n order to build confidence, the techues used last Monday were a litde differthan usual. From the time the kids 
ived until they left, each was on a one to 
basis with a water safety instructor. The 
tructor first paints a verbal picture of 
pool for the student. Then, after swimg for awhile as a warm-up, the instructeaches the student to dive into six feet of 
er from a sitdng position, then from a 
ling posidon, and finally standing, 
en the student has accomplished all of 
, the procedure starts all over again in 
ie feet of water. Finally, when both stut and instructor agree that they are ready,
the student leams to dive off of the board.
The students were not die only people 
that were nervous and excited about the 
experience. Its hard enough to teach kids 
as it is. I cant even imagine what it would be 
like if I couldnt see the water, exclaimed 
Instructor Laura May. But Im glad they 
were able to use our services. That way they 
dont have to pay anybody and they get 
instructors who care.
The students were not the only partici
pants learning, either. Instructors like 
Robert Schnorr have had experience in this 
field before. Schnorr has worked with the 
Berwyn Fire Company and is starting a club 
related to this kind of work. However, this is 
the first dme Schnorr or any of the rest of the 
instructors have worked with adaptive 
aquadcs. Michael Wolf even goes so far as to 
say diat he thinks that he may have gotten 
more out of it than they did.
Millions are spent each Valendnes Day 
which is strange since Valentine himself 
never laid out a cent for a sweetheart that we 
know of. Caputo and Birdy apparendy had 
not forgotten their history, though. Birdy 
laments, This is a great experience for the 
kids because they have the opportunity to 
visit a college campus and receive instruc
tion from college students. I dont know if 
anyone realizes what it is like for them to be 
at a college. Birdy continues, We did this 
about five years ago, and one of the girls 
didnt want to go home. She just held on to 
her instructor. It was a real tear jerker.
artans demolish Dukes, take first place
ihomore defenseman Ted Dawson (4) slaps one towards the net against Duquesne. With the win over the Dukes and Dayton University, 
U increased their recoitl to 15-1.
omen peaking just at the right time
RIC MEDROW
Ian Aslant Sports Editor 
la(t Washington and Jefferson is in 
| place in PAC Womens Basketball. 
il(t - I he Tartans go into their most
rtant three game series including one 
Washington and Jefferson next week. 
<t .H: Carlow (College was barely beaten 
I l()l>gh game against \V and J last week. 
|ac 1 The Tartans whipped Carlow last 
Inesdav 79-52.
elusion: Things l<x>k g<xxl for the
Tartans.
We dont have a big squad or a lot of 
size, exclaims guard Michelle Schlegal (16 
pts, 67%). But we make up for that with 
intensity and teamwork.
Teamwork may sound like a corny, over
used cliche, but nothing else could explain 
the fact that the Tartans beat Carlow by 27 
|x>ints, a team that had tome dost* to beat
ing the best team in the conference two days 
earlier. Coach Kathleen Paczkowski used 
every player to slowly wear down Carlow.
No one CMU player scored over 20 points 
(Laurie Arendas dumped twenty) while 
girls like forward Winner Law's came off the 
bench, sneaking up on Carlow for ten.
Arendas conjectures, We really needed to 
win this one, but we couldnt have done it 
without everyone. It was a total team effort.
Paczkowskis strategy to play a controlled 
game combined w ith running seems to have 
prevailed. Not only does Ciirlow have a 
smaller team, but diey also have a smaller 
continued on page 19
By JOE OSIN SKI
Tartan Staff writer
The Tartans put it all together: great 
penalty killing, four power play goals, and 
airtight defense, to whitewash Duquesne 6-0 
last Wednesday at the Lakevue Ice Palace. 
CMU dominated every aspect of the game to 
avenge a 3-2 loss to the Dukes on January 16. 
The win gives Camegie-Mellon undisputed 
possession of first place in the Southern Div
ision of the West Penn Intercollegiate 
Hockey League with a 15-1 mark.
There were many fine individual perfor
mances. Rick Samuelsen scored a hat trick 
to give him eight goals in his last three 
games. Donny Heyse broke out of a scoring 
slump with a goal and three assists. Goal
keeper Bob Kosakowski picked up his 
second consecutive shutout, giving him four 
for the season (a correction from last weeks 
edition). Andy Andrejko scored once and 
teamed with Samuelsen to kill a two-man 
disadvantage.
The first period belonged to the Tartans. 
Rob Katz deflected a Tim Carlin slapshot 
past Duke goalie Jim Weir to open the scor
ing at 2:24. Later in the period Duquesne 
picked up two minor penalties in the space 
of eleven seconds. Twelve seconds into the 
two-man advantage Samuelsen converted a 
Heyse pass for his first goal. Samuelsen 
returned the favor 1:07 later by setting up 
Heyse on a three-on-two break. The goals 
put the Tartans on top 3-0 after the first 
jxriod.
Duquesne had a chance to get back into 
the game early in period two. Paul Russo 
and Tim Carlin were sent off for elbowing 
and interference, respectively, putting CMU 
down two men for 1:59. But forwards 
Andrejko and Samuelsen, along w ith defensemen Tim Kenny and Ted Dawson, turned 
in some fine penalty killing to keep the score 
at 3-0. Goaltender Kosakowski was perfect 
during this stretch, stopping eight Duke 
shots.
Duquesnes inability to capitalize on the 
power play took the starch out of their 
continued on page 18

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanFebruary 22. 1983
TERMINALS  PRINTERS
788-480
We Spedali 
In Interfacing 
Peripherals To 
Computers
COME SEE THEM IN OUR SHOWROOM! GENERAL DATA CO., INC.PITTSBURGH. PA 15205
GDC
CRTSPRINTERS
a TELEVIDEOa EPSONePORTABLES
a C ITOHa OKIDATAeMODEMS
a ADDSa NEC SPINWRITEReCOUPLERS
a DECa DATASOUTH
a VISUAL TECH.a DEC
a G.E.
>wn
16
05
WinLoss
07
71
24
05
51
43
42
34
51
ague
WinLoss
22
23
32
14
41
WinLoss
22
13
21
40
03
WinLoss
22
22
13
3 ,0
12
WinLoss
40
04
30
12
13
WinLoss
51
14
13
22
50
04
WinLoss
24
Superstars competitio
EPP Quiche Eaters32PIKA-C4
Unicorns05Com us2
DTD22TarheelsWin
Skins40The Premature Shooters5F Troop31PKT-B2HoyasWinLossSCHLAG 69ers1
Turing Machine32Bossmen2
Arch Angels42Renegades5
Delta2 Phi41Skid Row4
Know-Names05TX-B2
Keenotatas31KS-Bruisers0
Wakonda Auga14Hollywoods Hogs2
Jayhawks
Skoal Brothers
Win
2
Loss
3Womens League
Zebras60WomenWin
Yellow Sheets23Indisputable2
Architects04Delta Gamma1
UHB51The Untitleds2
The Phoenix15Uncle Hymies Deli3
Minor League
Basket Cases0
The Shining Stars0
PanthersWinLoss
World B. Free50
Basketball Jones14
Barking Pumpkins14
Electric Eels41
Louisa Blues14
Forfeit23
Simoans41
First National Bank23
SpartansWinLoss
SAE-C24
Icemen32
Dreads06
Spliffs42
Uptown Imposters23
DU13
Full Moon60
GWANG I41
Rastamen23
RedmenWinLoss
7E Dunks41
Biohazards12
Central Park North05
Zoo21
Sarahs Joy41
AROTG03
CMU wreak vengeance
continued from page 17
attack. The Tartans, however, ga 
momentum and added to their 1 
two goals in 34 seconds. Caleb Corkeryi 
pass from the left-wing boards, fin 
Andrejko in the slot. Andrejko so 
7:25, giving CMU a 4-0 lead 
Samuelsen then picked up a loose pm 
center ice and fired a screaming drive 
just inside the blue line into the 
Samuelsen got his final goal, from & 
and Heyse, at 6:46 of the third period
It was a very satisfying victory 
Tartans, after having lost two in ara 
Duquesne going back to last year. The 
tans now have the best record in the le 
and seem to be peaking just at the righti 
for the playoffs coming up in two wa
The Tartans host Dayton University 
urday at 1 p.m. at the Civic Arena.
IM dept, hosts its
Youve seen it in the Bahamas. Youve 
seen it in Hawaii. Now you can not only see 
it, but you can also participate in it.
The IM department is sponsoring what it 
calls the IM Team Superstars Competition 
to be held starting March 10. The tourna
ment will consist of four events: rope climb, 
tug-o-war, swimming, and shutde run. For 
each event, there will be a five man team 
involved.
Another new sport to begin soon is 
Dazzle-ball. This game is sort of like football 
but different. More information will be 
given in the upcoming issues.
Commissioners are still needed for Bad
minton, Individual Call Pool, and Co-Rec 
Table Tennis. Anyone interested contact the 
IM office.
Major League
A.D.C. I
PIKA
West
SAE
N.T. Express 
The House 
Celtics 
Hoyas
Give a Hoot 
The High Five 
O.T.H.
Supa Stars
Intermediate
Aggies
Mothership 
Harrys Tavern 
DU
Just for Fun
EastWinLossHousing Office
Sixers61Bruins
Kappa Sig-A06Shady Bunch
Quiche Eaters43DGC
BETA60PKT-B
Runnin Rebels42Icemen
D-Foroe32EDO
The Park43Cavaliers
SUPA-NOVASPACE IS SURVIVAL
Manila Folders
3rd FI. E-Tower
Old Millworkers
KS-B
Dukes
Jets
Fine Arts 
Flying Tigers 
TX-A 
ZBT-A 
Friars
SUPA-ADONIS 
Math Grads 
ADG II 
FLASH 
Degenerates 
Jumping Jacks 
Gophers 
GSIA Blue
 international Headquarter* 
1060 E 'St  Tucson Arizona 85719
 Pittttoorah 1-5 
1900 WigMman  Pittsburgh PA 1521/ 
521- 305______________
tfvp'e
$5.00 minimum order
OUT OF
The Great Age of Planetary Exploration is 
nearly over There will be no U S spacecraft 
sending back photos of Haileys Comet, or 
Mars, or Uranusor anywhere else1 
Find out what we are doing to help 
Write to:
idUW
PROMOTING SPACEDEVELOPMENT

---------------------------------------------------

February 22, 1983The TartanPage 19
Swamprats" tour Oakland to avoid homework
By Ric Medrow
,e should have turned back before it was 
late But there was no way we could have
|wn.
aybe I should start from the beginning.
- a couple of weeks ago, four 
Swamprats (thats what we call 
y ourselves in the Swamp) decided 
to go on a walk at 12:30 a.m. 
know how it gets after about four hours 
[omework. You just have to get out of the 
rtment.
fell, anyway, our fifth roommate, the 
>ieme Being, gave us strict orders not to 
e him up. However, Swamprats dont 
, very kindly to orders. So before we left, 
[vk knocked the pyramid of cans over, 
cracked the whip, Dan banged on the 
ir with his walking stick, and I rang the 
rbell a lot. The Supreme Being came 
iing through the beads, and we were out 
| door, running across the parking lot 
a Supreme Being in green shorts and 
irt flying on the twenty degree breeze, 
must have made quite a sight, judging 
n the look on the faces of that couple. We 
away, of course. But it was too late. His 
e was upon us.
ife lost one member of our party before 
had gotten three blocks. It happened 
>n Hawk, mad about a Calculus test or 
le such thing, decided to kick a pile of 
en leaves (he didnt know it was frozen), 
limped back to the Swamp, lucky that he 
I only gone three blocks with our mody 
[ipany.
efore long we had gotten to our destina, Frick Park, without mishap. Beej said 
cnew this great litde path that we had 
?r walked. It was a nice path, except that 
ided in a cemetery. So up into the cemewe went. What else does one do at 2:30 
a Tuesday morning? We walked on, 
ikly passing the grave that had not quite 
l filled, all the way until we saw a
Pregnant?
And you didn't 
mean to be?
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, callBirthright at 621 -1988
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
For a confidential friend call:
UFELINE
Downtown Pgh. 562-0543
Beaver County 843-0505
Mon Valley 489-9020
Butler County 282-1200
PREGNANT? Cali ata
L&'s talk about your options.
H0TUNE; (412) 731-2420 
PREGNANCY TESTING: 391-4706 
908 Penn Avenue, Downtown 
8-10 a.m. W; 11 a.m.-1 p.m. 
MTTFS
Free and confidential informa
tion, counseling, pregnancy 
testing and related services.
ig"pquo"cmpl sv n[vhsyvr 
cuA
a non-profit organization
pyramid. No, don t read that sentence again. 
You read it correctly-a pyramid in the mid
dle of a Pittsburgh cemetery. Searching, we 
found the mysterious ruins spelling out the 
name of someone who was probably a great 
Egyptian PharoahBrown. To further 
mark the passing of one so great, I wrote 
Brown was here! in the snow on the 
pyramid.
Tiring of the cemetery', we decided to 
search for a way out. We decided that since 
we had been moving in this direction for 
some time, our best bet would be to 
continue-a definite mistake. There he was, 
just sitting in the middle of a graveyard. We 
wondered what kind of fool would be here at 
this time of night. We realized that he was 
not the only one here and we had our 
answer.
Figuring that he couldnt be any more 
dangerous than we were, we approached the 
figure-a statue. But it was not any ordinary 
statue. It was a reproduction of our infam
ous and revered deity, Andrew Mellon.
We looked up momentarily to see that 
civilization was within sight. Climbing over 
the spiked fence we found ourselves at a 
five-way intersection. Beej said he knew it 
was one of two ways back to the Swamp. 
Following Robert Frosts advice, we decided 
to travel the road less taken. But even Frost 
would not avail us on this night. Again we 
made the wrong move.
Eventually, we found Fifth. That didnt 
do us much good, though, since we went the 
wrong direction; although it was not too 
bad as we soon began to smell chocolate 
chip cookies. We could not possibly go 
wrong if we followed this smell. So on we 
went until Fifth dead-ended at Bell Tele
phone Company. We thought it rather odd 
that the smell of chocolate chip cookies 
should be coming from the phone com
pany, but then we realized that that was the 
reason that our phone bills are so high and
why you can never understand the operator-their mouths are always full of cookies.
We walked on, and sooner or later we 
found a sign telling us that we were in East 
Liberty. I never saw such a neighborhood. I 
mean all those Cadillacs with their lights on 
and the women with so much jewelry. We 
must have been in the richest section of 
town! We thought that they might not be 
satisfied with ail that wealth and take ours, 
so we prompdy turned around.
On the way back to Fifth we saw a sign 
saying that this was the way to Oakland. It 
would have been nice if wed seen it when 
we passed it before, but no matter. We were 
on our way home.
So about an hour later we saw the most 
beautiful sight wed ever seen looming 
ahead in the distance-the Cathedral of 
Ignorance.
Now that we knew where we were, it 
dawned on us that we were starving. Dan 
said he knew a shortcut to a Ho Jos that
Volleyball wins
The CMU Mens Volleyball Club was 
victorious in its first two matches of the 
season, against Cal State on February 10 and 
Penn State-New Kensington.
In the match against Cal State, CMU won 
the first game 15-10, lost the second 11-15, 
and won the third and fourth 15-6 and 15-7.
Against rival Penn State, CMU lost its 
first game 12-15, won the second 15-8, lost 
the third 13-15, and won the fourth 15-6.
serves real food. Like fools, we followed. A 
half hour later, we found ourselves several 
hundred yards from where wed started. 
Wed gone in a semi-circle. We took the long 
way to Hojos, had a great meal, and got 
back to the Swamp: The last thing I remem
bered as I rolled over in bed was glancing up 
at the clock~6:25 a.m.
Ric Medrow is a freshman in professional 
and creative writing and is Assistant Sports 
Editor for The Tartan.
Coach grins
continued from page 17
gym. So, Paczkowski used an uncharacteris
tic running game. Still, the coach kept tight 
reign on her team, using a set offense in 
order to prevent her team from pushing 
things that arent there.
But Schlegal sees a different reason for 
Wednesdays victory. With the wry smile of 
one who knows the inside story, Schlegal 
said, It is evident to me that we won tonight 
because for the first time this season, our 
coach smiled at halftime!
SHARE 
THE COST 
OF LIVING 
Give to the * 
American Cancer Society 
This space contributed as a public service.
IRS TAX TIP
For SingleTaxpayers
If you pay for the care of your child or 
a disabled dependent so you can 
work, you may be able to claim a 
credit up to $400 if you have one qual
ifying dependent, or up to $800 if you 
have two or more qualifying 
dependents.
A public service message from 
the Internal Revenue Service
COMUVGSOON
Look for
htmabkM A t  A / I N h
in an 
upcoming
issue 
of your 
college 
I news
paper.
DONT MISS IT!

---------------------------------------------------

At CMU call
Captain Michael Schulte578-2205
Mon.. Tues., Wed. 10-7 
Thurs., Fri. 10-9
Sat. 9-6 687-3500
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PREOSON HAflCUTTERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
Given up on the Penguins?
Come and see Pittsburgh's most 
exciting hockey team  The TARTANS
CMU vs. DA YTON
Saturday, February 26
1 PM
Civic Arena
Fumdmd by ActwMem Fee
WE'LL RAY YOU TO GET INTOSUMMER.Get that 
Great X
Natural, Distinctive and Totally YOU!
If you have at least 
years of college left, 
you can spend six weeks at 
our Army ROTC Basic 
Camp this summer and earn 
approximately $600.
And if you qualify, you 
can enter tne ROTC 2- 
Year Program this fall and 
receive up to $ 1,000 a year.
But the big payoff 
happens on graduation day. 
Thats when you receive 
an officers commission.
So get your body in 
shape (not to mention your 
bank account).
Enroll in Army ROTC. 
For more information,
your Professor of 
Military Science.
ARMY ROTC BEALLYOUCANBE.
HAIRCUT 
(ANY LENGTH)
$12.00
(WASH-CUT-BLOW STYLE) 
NO
APPOINTMENT

---------------------------------------------------

February 22, 1983The TartanPage 21
eace Corps to recruit on campus March 7 and 8
Intinued from page 4
8ipS has undergone a positive change 
ice its early days. Were a more efficient 
[ganization due to the fact that weve had 
lore experience in workingwith people in 
ist coutries, Sullivan explains.
I Todays volunteers bring to the developworld important skills and knowledge 
id a practical idealism that are needed to 
iprove the quality of life for millions of 3ple. Working and living in thecommunes of those they are helping, Peace Corps 
lunteers treat malnourished children, 
ng water to deserts, teach nutrition, plant 
rests, increase food production, help build 
iools and bridges.
[ Joseph LaGue, area recruitment manager 
the Philadelphia office, points out the 
ace Corps mission is not to do things for
orrection
Student Senator Tom McCarthys quote 
last weeks Tartan should have read, I 
lard that they used police state tactics. 
I stead of what was printed. Mr. McCarthy 
I mid like to stress that he favors no side in 
|e issue discussed.
people but to help people do things for 
themselves. Another important aspect of the 
Peace Corps experience for both the host 
country and America is to provide each with 
a good look at and understanding of the 
other.
We teach the fundamentals, says
Revue reviewed
continued from page 14
almost amusing to watch her expression 
drop back into characteristic deadpan at the 
end of each line. As far as Robinson is con
cerned, his expression did not change noti
ceably throughout the show. Still, neither 
ones performance detracted from the over
all quality of the show.
Technically the show was well done. The 
lighting was well executed and added to the 
overall effect of the show. The orchestra, led 
by pianist Jim Agnew, also did a fine job.
Brecht on Brecht is a wonderful revue, 
which will linger in ones memory long 
after the show is over. Brecht is playing at 
the Stephen Foster Memorial Theatre 
through February 26.
LaGue. We help increase knowledge and 
skills, economic development, income, 
housing, available energy, conservation and 
community services so that when we leave, 
we leave behind what those people need to 
better survive on their own. The effects of 
our accomplishments endure because we
strive for self-sufficiency in those we help. 
Besides the responsibility, independence 
and the challenges inherent in Peace Corps 
service, LaGue says, a volunteers gets valua
ble professional and personal experience 
that is an important asset to almost any 
career in the 1980s.
Presenting High Bias n and the Ultimate Tape Guarantee.
Memorex presents High Bias II, a tape so extraordinary, were going 
to guarantee it forever.
Well guarantee life-like sound.
Because Permapass^ our unique oxide bonding process, locks each oxide 
particleeach musical detailonto the tape. So music stays live 
Not just the 1st play. Or the 1000th. But forever.
the cassette
Every Jacet of our cassette is engineered to protect 
the tape Our waved-wafer improves tape-wind. yjgH FORfVHI WONDER
Silicone-treated rollers insure smooth, precise tape m  RR
alignment. Housing is made strong by a design IK IT I lyE
unique to Memorex. !?J i |L*J
Well guarantee them forever. OR IS IT
If you are ever dissatisfied with Memorex UEUfMEI
High Bias II, mail us the tape and well replace it free

---------------------------------------------------

Funnies.
By Mark Levine'
'if5 PRINTING orf* uvri 
 Of SHOE-LUCE WJfACOM
) \i 7*StiflIXM
JOE FRESHMAN
un, Hy ccmmRs
. 6ROWUN6... /
mi, If Vjt &0Tf> uEARN 
How "To USf TH5 THINW 
Tlleli T- MW KS vuLEAfcN Hw ToOfrl--
r he: sir FO R 
STWIlHr.
fws?? rtns Keys
GENTLY FIWLY. 
,hY /fiM Hyq Jum"d 
V BOSS. .
GRRRR
V^eu.-rtEy'RE 
A Lirnf 
wy of 
STiW&KS..
By Jay Sele
dhvvt
DBOLDROOLDROOL
DROOUDROOL
By Diane ThodoIPSO FACTO
Y00 Kmol*/, ^>0
i*/e +0 be
a^fec-K o* -fhe / 
p<jrso^... /
1-f $ot X u/^cfer 
c/Ki'o^ o^e of 
is Si'cl^
POINDEXTER
Tlftie X'tn (E> JU. 
HAVe HAD MORE THAN 04O6W 
of WS screen
^bu Ne EP 10 6er OW AKP f*Ul*
erta*. mino yoo yo YFhzhn
. UipiD COMPOTE*? ____________
jSPMEHOW fH tsN'r 
I ExAcny qRfY r 
SL WAt> *N /Vit40....
Sf^Vy
pi THAT'S 
^ INHV
&n& our 
<mvHHet 
ftMKffm 
all of that
L7BCHM0.06V

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
classifieds
Resumes. Word processed, look typeset at 4 the 
ost. Choose typestyle, format and design. 
Update often, easily. Standard $10.00. 621-2585.
German Tutoring. If you need help call 681 -2277 
n the evening artd ask for Klaus.
ruitar lessons. Classical, jazz, rock. Guitar 
naior $7 half-hour, $12 hour. If interested, call 
Vlarc Garvin at 521-3694.
Doctor Coopers fabulous fructose diet plan. One
^eek supply $21.50. Banana, chocolate or straw,eny. Nova Foods Box 300, Carnegie, PA 15106,
79-8520.
Theatre Arts Graduates. Resume Photographs 
\ complete local service; call for an appointment 
)e Julio Photography, 521-3277, Les De Julio 
,nd Pat De Julio.
Gassy Kids. Do you need maternity clothes, 
hildrens clothes and furniture? Come to Klassy 
iids for low cost quality merchandise. Klassy 
[ids, 5819 B Forward Avenue, Squirrel Hill 521 -
1623.
itt Professor needs tutoring in EMACS. Write 
.0. Box 19034, Pittsburgh, PA 15273. $4 per
iour.
tVill type term papers, dissertations, letters, 
esumes, manuscripts and so forth. Reasonable 
ates. Call Shirley before 9 p.m. 521-0534.
Lrtificial Intelligence Specialist sought by highch Southern California firm for major applied 
)OD project and commercial applications, 
nowledge of LISP and natural language pre
ssing required. PhD highly desirable. Excellent 
ilary and benefits. Will relocate. Resumes to: 
ickie Niles, 6322 Mission Gourge Rd., San 
iego, California 92120.
or the real man in you: John Wayne poster with 
-ame, price pending... Duke... Duke... Duke. 2nd floor, 1st door on the left.
teliable, loving child care needed for young 
ifant in Squirrel Hill home. Part-time 421 -2607.
Almost on campus. Beeler Street. Huge, beauti
ful 2 floor, 8 room, 4 bedroom 35 feet long. Office, 
enclosed porch, private backyard, garage, washer 
and dryer, storm windows, several air condition
ers, carpeung, plus log burning fireplace. May 1. 
Suitable for 4 or 5. $765 plus gas and electric. 
521-9441.
One block from CMU. Beeler Street. Extremely 
large 7 room, three bedroom apartment with 
office, sun-porch, garage, use of washer and 
dryer, storm windows. $655 plus gas and electric
ity. May 1. Suitable for 4. 521-9441.
Summer Sublet w/fall option. 6 bedrooms, 3 
baths, 2 kitchen large house. Quiet, clean and 
safe. Call Mr. Whalen, 683-2589.
WIN A DATE WITH NATE. Something that 
will LOOK good on YOUR permanent record. 
Bring the children to the set.
Hat lost at PIKA. Mens black felt fedora. Lost on 
2/12/83. Reward for return. Leave name and 
number at Tartan office.
Informal Bible Discussion Group meets every 
Monday evening at 9, in Room 39 Skibo. It is 
non-denominational in nature, and deals with 
campus-related and practical issues directly from 
the Bible. Stop by, and feel free to bring a friend 
with you. If you want additional information, 
call 441-0819 and ask for John.
Join the Academic Bag Ladies over lunch on 
Thursdays 12-1, Lutheran University Center 
4515 Forbes Avenue, Oakland. Info: 682-6886.
AIESEC welcomes students of all majors to 
attend meetings in Skibo 11 each Wednesday at 
4:30.
CMU Ballroom Dance Club. Learn to dance, free 
lessons, every Friday 3:00-4:30, Thisde Hall 
(Gym). Beginners welcome!
events
clubs
The Student Senate meets every Tuesday night at 
7:00 in the Wherrett Room. Students are invited 
to come and address the Senate during Audience 
Participation.
The Tech Flying Club will meet in Skibo 45 at 7 
p.m. on Tuesday (today). All interested students, 
faculty and staff are invited.
Managers needed for CMU Lacrosse Club. Inter
ested, call Neil or Ian, 687-6893.
SCOTCH N SODA NEWS: Congrats to all 
those involved with the One-Acts. Its not too late 
to get Carried Away  call Tom Wood at 681 - 
6926. Dungeon cleanup on Sat., Feb. 26th at 10:00 
a.m.  meet at the SNS office.
IEEE There will be a tour of the Westinghouse 
Churchill R&D facility on Monday, Feb 28 at 
8:15 a.m. The cost is $1.50 for non-members, and 
$1.00 for members. Reservation are limited, so 
sign up now in HH 108
ISRAEL-WEEK-ON-CAMPUS SCHEDULE 
FEBRUARY 26 - MARCH 5 
Saturday, February 26 
8:00 p.m. Megillah reading 
9:00 p.m. Purirh Bash 276 N. Bellefield Avenue, 
Refreshments and Hamantaschen served.
Monday, February 28, Wednesday, March 2, and 
Friday, March 4
10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m., Israel information tables, 
simultaneously in the Cathedral of Learning 
basement and in the Towers lobby of the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh.
Thursday, March 3
10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m., Israel information tables 
at the Grey Matter in Skibo Hall at CMU.
Monday, February 28
7:30 p.m., Rockinghorse, a 1977 film by Israeli 
artist Yaki Yosha. A speaker, Moises Wodnicki, 
M.D. will follow the film. These events will be 
held at the Squirrel Hill J.C.C. 5783 Forbes 
Avenue and admission is $3.00 for students. 
Sponsored by AMHAI.
Tuesday, March 1
11:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. Israeli Fair. Israeli danc
ing, Israeli dance instruction, Israeli food, arts 
and crafts, Israeli music, Israel information 
tables, Israeli products. To be held on the Towers 
Patio of the 5th Ave. side University of Pittsburgh 
(in case of rain, inside Towers lobby).
Thursday, March 3
9:00 p.m., Megama, an Israeli singing duo of 
Chassidic music on violin and guitar will be 
performing at the Frick Fine Arts Building in 
Oakland. Admission is free and open to the pub
lic and students. A raffle giving away free prizes 
will be drawn at the concert. Winners must be 
present to claim prizes.
Friday, March 4
12:00 p.m., A speaker on The Role of Yiddish 
and Jewish Culture (tentative), this will be a 
brown bag lunch co-sponsored by the Language 
Acquisition Institute and the Jewish Studies Pro
gram of the University of Pittsburgh. Call the 
Institute for final details, 624-5512.
5:30 p.m., Special Shabbat services with a dinner 
to follow at 6:30 p.m. There will be a speaker 
following the dinner. Services and dinner will be 
held in the Bnai Brith Hillel Dining Room, 3rd 
floor J.C.C., 315 S. Bellefield in Oakland. Reser
vations must be made by Wednesday, March 2, 
call 621-8876.
Saturday, March 5
8:00 p.m., An evening with Jewish Soul Music, 
with Giora Feidman Klezmer clarinetist, and his 
trio. J.C.C. in Oakland, Admission is $3.00 for 
students. For tickets call the Israeli Shaliachs 
office at 683-7277.
10:00 p.m., Closing Israel Week Bash sponsored 
by Masada. ZOA House, Denniston and Forbes 
Avenue.
Israel Week on Campus is sponsored by Bnai 
Brith Hillel, Chabad, Masada, Youth Institute 
for Peace in the Middle East, PA Ethnic Heritage 
Studies Center.
FILMS ON COMBUSTION Thursdays 1:30 to 
2:00 Scaife Auditorium February 24 - Visualiza
tion Studies of Combustion Instability in a 
Hydrogen-Oxygen Model Combustor.
Attention:
There will be no March 
out on March 8.
issue. The next Tartan will be
WHAT IN THE WORLD 
ARE YOU DOING?
Maybe you're building bridges in Nepal ... or helping Filipino 
fishermen improve their catches ... or assisting a public health 
project in the Kingdom of Tonga ... or designing water supply 
systems in Belize... or developing disease-resistant vegetables in 
Western Samoa  if you're a Peace Corps volunteer. More than 
5,500 people in nearly 60 countries can tell you that whatever in 
the world you're doing as a Peace Corps volunteer, you're putting 
your degree, ingenuity and flexibility to work for you to help the 
world's poorest people attain self-sufficiency in the areas of food 
production, energy conservation, economic development and 
health services. They'll also tell you that whatever you're doing, 
you'll know if s the toughest job you'll ever love.
PEACE CORPS2 yrs. service  subsistence, medical covered - $175 savings per month
RECRUITERS WILL BE ON CAMPUS MARCH 7 & 8.
FIUVINFO: RfMIF 7, fY 7 lnRnp zgT?y Ff,,p MyyR II.
"the toughest job you'll ever love/ a .2RT5Yh color
FILM, WILL BE SHOWN BY A FORMER VOLUNTEER.
INFORmTION TABLE: RfMIF ^, 9 fnRn  4 lnRnp zgT?y Ff,,p
LOBBY.
MOST SOUGHT SKILLS: ?Ty,yW:p IFhRTzYM:p lF:zTIzp RfYF
AND CIVIL, SANITARY & ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING.
MARCELnoutCEdv
MARCEL MARCEAU 
WORLDS 
GREATEST MIME
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 2 
at 8 PM
$12.50, 11.50, 9.50, 8.50 
student discounts 
On sale at Heinz Hall, all 
National Record Marts, all 
Kaufmanns Stores 
TICKET INFO - 281-5000
lutJJ
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24The TartanFebruary 22, 1983
official
John P. Credne, Dean of the College of Humani
ties and Social Sciences, will hold open office 
hours for students each Tuesday, 1:30 - 3:30, BH 
260.
President Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 and 5 p.m., in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Wednesday February 
23, 1983. Students who wish to meet with the 
president should telephone his office, 578-2200, 
to set up an appointment.
general
Attention sophomores Application deadline for 
two year ROTC scholarships is March 1, 1983. 
For information call Captain Michael Schulte 
x2205.
Spend an informal evening in the home of Pro
fessor Hugh D. Young, Physics Department. 
SARC is sponsoring this event to provide an 
opportunity for students and faculty to exchange 
viewrs on various topics of interest. This event 
will be held on Saturday, February 26 at 3 p.m. 
All those interested please contact Pamela Bazzy 
in the Alumni Office, 5th floor Warner Hall, 
x2060.
CMUs Hewlett Gallery will feature sketches and 
renderings of scene designer Jo Mielziner from 
Feb. 12 through March 9.
Mielziners highly influential career in both 
scenic and lighting design spanned over 50 years 
and earned him many awards and honors, 
including an Oscar for his color art direction of 
the film Picnic, Variety, and three Tonys for 
his work in A Streetcar Named Desire, Death 
of a Salesman and The Innocents.
The Hewlett Gallery in the College of Fine 
Arts is open to the public without charge from 11 
a.m. to 4 p.m., Tuesday through Friday, noon to 
4 p.m., Saturday, and 1 to 4 p.m., Sunday.
Counseling and Student Development Center 
Workshops. The following workshops are 
offered this term. Register at Baker Hall 135 or by 
calling x2922 between 8:30 and 5:00.
Test Taking I: Preparation for Taking Tests - 
One session, Tuesday, April 5, 4:30-5:30 p.m. 
Test Taking II: How to Take Exams - One ses
sion Tuesday, April 12, 4:30-5:30 p.m.
Test Taking III: How to Take Exams - One 
session Tuesday, April 19, 4:30-5:30 p.m. 
Managing Stress - Leam how to cope with aca
demic and personal pressures. Four sessions, 
Thursdays from 4:30-6:00 p.m., Feb. 10-March 3. 
Building Self-Esteem - Leam how to feel better 
about yourself. Four sessions, Thursdays from 
4:30-6:00 p.m., April 7-April 28.
''Bible" and 'Tate" off erred by SN$
Cine(nhsf oriE Hus mP
The weak links in the play were the acting 
of Osgood and the direction by David 
Turner. Osgood did handle the naivete of 
his role but did not react well to Cottons 
acting, taking stiff stances, leaning upon the 
furniture. Part of this is also Turners prob
lem. At times, the actors had to slyly wander 
across the stage to get to their next scene; 
other times, the actors didnt seem to exactly 
know w here to go.
Fate seemed to have its major problem in 
its directing, by Robert Gargiulo. For a good 
part of the play the audience got views of the 
actors backs, and the entrances and exits 
were not performed with exact certainty.
A second major problem was the script by 
Alfonsi. After this show was over, most of 
the audience sighed Huh?! The directness 
of message evident in Bible is lacking in 
Fate. What was the premise of the play? 
Who was Freddie? Why was he there? The 
epigraph to this play (We are the birds that 
stay) is simply obscuiv, although meta
phors with birds are used in the dialogue.
The best thing about this play was the
acting of Matt Devine and Ann Davis, ai 
little else. Davis played the younger sister 
the family convincingly; her humor 
quite refreshing. Devine bounced off Da> 
pokes nicely, and a good relationship 
created between them. It would have ^ 
better to see these two characters take 
much more of the play.
The situation in Fate is that Cluj 
(Devine) cannot deal with the death of (j 
mother, who died about a year ago. 
(Jeff Koechling) and Liza (Davis) have o\t 
come their grief, but are no help to Chm 
Then Freddie (Srikanth Rajan) shows m 
plays chess with Chris, and leaves after 
ting him through a little hell.
The show has potential, but a major re\i 
sion is needed. The dialogue has to bemad 
clearer, the character of Freddie needs to 
explained and expanded, and the fami 
situation should be explained more.
It was, however, refreshing to see nei 
original talent in such a capacity; Scotch' 
Soda has presented a forum that has a lot 
potential, and Alfonsi has set a fair examp 
for those who follow.
Nothing Else Feels Like Navy Flying.
^'1/
The thunderous roar of jet engines rolls across the carriers flight deck.Throttles are at full power, and youre waiting for the signal to launch.Now. The catapult fires. G forces press you back into your seat. Suddenly, youre flying low and fast over the open sea. Zero to 150 in 2.5 seconds.Nothing else feels like Navy flying. Nothing. And when you become a pilot or flight officer youre at the very heart of it.Once youve earned your wings, the Navy puts you in full control of a multi- million-dollar supersophisticated combination of jet aircraft and electronic wizardry.And Navy training makes sure youre up to the challenge. Rigorous flighttraining gives you the r__________navigation, aerodynamics and other technical know-how you need.Leadership and professional schooling prepare you for the
NAVY OPPORTUNITY 
INFORMATION CENTER 
P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015
? Please send me more information about becom
ing a member of the Naval Aviation Tfeam. (0A)
Name.First
Address.
immediate decision-City_
Age_
State.
tYear in College. 
?Major/Minor__
.tCollege/University__
_______?GPA.
making authority and management responsibility you have as an officer in the Navy.On the ground, as a Navy officer, you work with and supervise todays most highly skilled aviation professionals. In the air, as part of the naval aviation team, you have about the most exciting job anyone can have.Its a uniquely rewarding job with pay to match. You start at $18,300 a year more than the average corporation pays you just out of college. After four years, with regular Navy promotions and pay increases, your annual salary climbs to $31,100. Thats over and above a full package of benefits and privileges.Find out how much more a job in naval aviation has to offer. Fill in the__ coupon. No other jobw 211 I gives you the kind of I leadership experience | or fast responsibility | you get as part of the naval aviation team. And nothing else feels like Navy flying.
(Please Print) Last
___________Apt. #--------
.Zip.
Phone Number.Best Time to Call(Area Code)I This is for general recruitment information. You do not have to I furnish any of the information requested. Of course, the more we | know, the more we can help to determine the kinds of Navy positions for which you qualify. MG 9/82
NavyOfficers Get Responsibility Fast.
