Academy Awards best bets.............................see Diversions
Sing/Swing a success............................................see supplement
The Tartan
Volume 80, Number 19 Carnegie Mellon University March 11, 1986
Scotland Yard
expands menu and services
By DRUE MILLER
Tartan Staffuriter
Scotland Yard. Carnegie Mellon's studentoperated pub. is planning several changes. The 
most immediate of these is the acquisition of 
a large convection oven, and subsequent menu 
expansions. Starting with the fall 1986 semes
ter. students will have the opportunity to open 
accounts in Scotland Yard that are similar to the 
Vali-dine system but independent from UDS.
The new items to be offered include: fried 
chicken wings, fried cheese sticks, fried zuc
chini. garlic bread, and ice cream dishes. Prices 
are not expected to increase (current average 
prices are Si. 10 for drinks, $2.15 for food 
items). New items are scheduled to appear in 
about two weeks. Lisa Clister, former co-chair 
of the managemanent committee, says that the 
overall menu expansion is intended to make 
Scotland Yard an alternative for meals on cam
pus, not just snacks and dessert. Also, the week 
before this semester's finals, the pub will offer 
a lunch menu: polls taken by the pub show the 
students to be very interested in this option.
Planners for the pub have proposed a new 
svstem of pavment to go alone with the pub s
increased offerings. President Cyert suggested 
that the accounts be labeled by social security 
numbers, allowing the students to use their ID 
cards and not make Scotland Yard print up their 
own cards. Cliff Sharpels, president of Scotland 
Yard, believes that this is the most likely 
course of action.
Although some students would like to see the 
pub go alcoholic, Sharpels said a liquor license 
is pretty infeasible at this time. Threequarters of the campus is underage, and it 
would be difficult to control who gets served. 
Also, the adminstration doesnt want alcohol in 
the pub, largely because of past problems with 
the Pennsvvania Liquor Control Board. Adding 
alcohol to the menu would be very expensive 
as well; Scotland Yard would incur costs up
wards of Si5.000 in purchasing the necessary 
equipment (coolers, beertaps, etc.). The national 
trend appears to be towards non-alcoholic pubs; 
a poll of top-ranked colleges across the coun
try showed only 50% having alcoholic pubs, 
and of those, some schools (such as Harv ard) 
have already or are planning to eliminate 
alcoholic offerings because of problems such as 
those above.
The brothers (?) of SAE dazzled the capacity crowd at Carnegie Music Hal! last Frida> 
night, with their rendition of La Cage aux Folles. The performance brought them first 
prize in the Greek Sing Competition. For the complete story see the 8-page Greek Simr 
supplement.
AT&T discounts
for qualified education projects
by LISA KAGEL
Tartan Staffuriter
The Inter-University Consortium for Educa
tional Computing (ICEC) recently announced 
that AT&T will offer special discounts on their 
I MX Personal Computer Model 7300 to 
member schools of ICEC. The discount will in
clude the PC as well as related hardware and 
software to be used in "qualified education pro
jects.
Ken Friend, director of ICEC headquartered 
at Carnegie Mellon I niversity. said that the 
equipment will be used generally for the 
development of educational software and/or 
courseware. An example of this would be adapStudents relax at the campus pub.
Colleges to get money for equipment
HARRISBURGAn Allegl leny County 
1;'" maker introduced House Bill 2163 which
"<>uld appropriate more than S22 million in the 
1 %6-8 7 state budget to extend and expand the 
Instructional Equipment Grants Program for 
colleges and universities in Pennsylvania.
^tate Rep. Ron Cowell. D-Wilkins Twp.. ex
plained the 1985-86 general fund budget con
tained a "first-time" appropriation of SI6.5 
million to be distributed to public and private 
1 "Hcges and universities throughout the state 
t<> help offset budget limitations which prevent 
purchase of new instructional equipment, 
'"well, chairman of the House sub-committee 
"n Higher Education, said testimony by 
"pi'e^entatives from public and private institulln,ls at a recent public hearing conducted by
f' committee poignantly expressed the need
to eliminate antiquated instructional equipment 
from Commonwealth schools and continue to 
channel state appropriations to achieve that 
goal.
"We also heard the clear message that a one
time investment of SI6.5 million, while very im
portant. does not solve the problem. Cowell 
said of the testimony. I believe the legislature 
should once again approve a special appropria
tion for Higher Education instructional equip
ment in the 1986-87 state budget which will 
be approved later this year.
Further stiessing the importance of new and 
more advanced equipment in Pennsylvania 
schools. Cowell said. "The absence of modern 
equipment in our classrooms and school 
laboratories means that many students are not 
taught with or made familiar with the kind of
equipment they will be expected to use when 
thev enter into employment...and Pennsylvania 
businesses suffer because of an inadequately 
prepared work force and subsequent training 
costs.
Cowell has recommended that Community 
Colleges be eligible for grants tins year noting 
thev were removed from the program's final 
draft last year. He has also included graduate 
students in the formula for distributing the 
S22.2 million allocation.
"This investment, which will reflect the in
creasing commitment of state government 
resources to our higher education programs, will 
also represent further recognition of the impor
tant links which exist between education pro
grams and the climate for business and 
economic development in our state. he said.
ling existing software for the classroom.
Faculty at the member institutions will use the 
I MX PC 7300 for testing and development for 
educational purposes. Friend said the availabili
ty of the equipment will encourage investiga
tions of new ways to use and share existing hard
ware and software at various schools.
Friend stressed that the agreement provided 
broad terms for usage but a focus by limiting 
the utility to educational projects.
In order to receive the discount, each of the 
18 member schools of ICEC. can send brief 
proposals to ICEC describing their project. Ac
cording to ICECNET. the consortium's newslet
ter. "ICEC will review the project to ensure that 
it meets the agreement's definition of a 
"qualified educational project'. " Following ap
proval. the school will be able to order the 
equipment from AT&T for the discount rate.
AT&T is a relative new-comer in the com
puter market which may explain their interest 
in such a project. "I suspect they are a poten
tially large force in the computer market. But 
they have come in late and are try ing to make 
inroads into the testing market." said Friend.
Friend said the AT&T discount is of great 
value to the ICEC schools providing particular 
applications in specific departments. ICEC feels 
the agreement mav lead to fo llovr- up projects 
which in turn, may promote interest in longerterm relationships.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------1
Due to Spring Break. The Tartan w ill not be 
published for the next three weeks. I^ook 
for us again on April 8. In the meantime 
have a safe and happy break.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanMarch 11, 1986
Technology Today
StealthThe invisable jet must fly through Congress first
By ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Tartan Production Manager
The newest technology entering the aviation 
industry is that of stealth. Ever since the in
troduction of radar by the British shortly prior 
to World War II, designers have been trying 
to build an aircraft that is invisible to radar. 
Research is underway to create an intercon
tinental bomber called Stealth, as well as 
fighters, missiles, helicopters, and even satellites 
and space vehicles that are virtually invisible 
on radar scopes.
Until the early 1970's, there was little interest 
in this type of technology. Pilots could depend 
on the speed and maneuverability of their 
planes to avoid being intercepted by missiles 
or radio-controlled planes. Todays fleet of 
B-52s were designed to fly at high altitudes 
(30,000+ feet) and use electronic jamming to 
reach their targets. The new B-l did not stress 
radar-evasive technology in its design either, but 
rather was designed to fly high and escorted to 
enemy territory', and then hug the ground at 
several hundred feet under radar. The idea was 
reasonable, however, it proved that the B-l does 
not fare well at low-level flying.
With constant advancements in radar and 
weapons-systems, it is becoming apparent that 
new technology' in aircraft design is needed. The 
most prominent example of this technological 
shift was shown in the 1973 downing of 40 
American made Israeli fighters by Sovietsupplied surface-to-air missiles in the Sinai. The 
U.S. government has finally realized the need 
for such stealth technology.
For a short background on how stealth will 
work, the understanding of radar is necessary. 
Radar, an acronym for radio detection and 
ranging, is just electromagnetic energy of 
radiowaves beamed outward, much like a sear
chlight, and then reflected from an object. By 
measuring the duration of the waves round trip, 
the distance to the object may be determined.
Artists conception of Stealth bomber.
By locking the beam on the target, continuous 
tracking is possible.
The first real use of stealth technology was 
adapted by the Germans in World War II when 
they realized that the snorkels of their sub
marines could be detected from aircraft radar. 
They altered the design to the least reflective 
shape, and also coated them with a layer of 
radar-absorbing material (carbon mixed in a 
rubbery base). The coating turned the incom
ing radar waves into heat, allowing little to 
reflect back up toward the aircraft, thereby 
hiding the submarine.
Hiding an aircraft in the same way is not feasi
ble because of the extreme weight involved. 
Even the weight of a single coat of paint is con
sidered when determining an aircrafts 
characteristics, therefore, the thick carbonrubber coatings used on subs impractical.
Stealth is incorporated using three basic 
methods; aerodynamics, materials, and elec
tronics. Aerodynamics plays a large role since 
the fewer sharp, reflective edges a plane has, 
the less detectable it will be. The B-l and B-52 
cannot change their relatively angular shapes, 
only minor details. The noticeability of an air
craft on radar is determined by its Radar Cross
Section (RCS). The RCS does not denote an ob-. 
jects size, only how it is seen by radar. For ex
ample, a B-52s head on RCS is 100 sq meters 
while a pickup truck is 200 sq meters due to 
all of its edges. The RCS of a B-l is only about 
10 sq meters making it more difficult to see, 
however not impossible. These figures are on
ly for direct head-on views, not for side, top, etc.
Stealth aircraft will probably look somewhat 
like a flying wing. Very low profiles reduce the 
RCS due to the lack of angular areas, lying 
wings have been examined and tested in past 
years without much success, but recent tests by 
the Air Force have shown that the totally new 
designs are proving successful.
The new airframe design will utilize new ad
vancements in coatings and materials for the ac
tual building of the aircraft. A ferrite coating 
on all the exposed surfaces helps by absorbing 
some of the radar radio waves. This is ac
complished by exciting the electrons in the 
material which dissipates the waves energy. 
Other such materials, including epoxies, 
polymers, and resins are also being considered. 
Problems arise when multiple frequency radar 
waves are used by the enemy. Each coating will 
absorb and dissipate one band of waves, but
multiple waves may be reflected, causing detec
tion. Methods such as heating, multiple 
coatings, and wave-cancellation are being con
sidered as solutions.
New materials will also be used for the ac
tual construction of the plane to reduce the 
amount of radar reflection caused by metal. 
Substances called composites, mixtures of 
metals, polymers, fiber-reinforced plastics, etc, 
will be used for construction. Vital parts, such 
as landing gears and engines still need the 
strength associated with metals, until composite 
technology is more fully developed.
The new flying wing, although exceptionally 
thin, head on, has a wing surface much greater 
than present bombers. This presents problems 
since they will be very susceptible to long-wave 
looking down radars. The U.S.S.R currently 
uses this as one of their primary defense 
measures, as it provides for a general long-range 
view of objects based on their size. It presents 
almost nothing in the way of features of the 
plane, however it will detect an object as a blob 
on the radar screens, and defensive actions can 
then be taken.
The stealth program is far from being im
plemented. With the Gramm-Rudman bill 
shadowing all expenditures, especially military, 
the possibilities of this project nearing comple
tion within this decade is doubtful. The debates 
in congress over this dubious design, unproven 
materials, and exceptional cost will be one of 
the harshest defense issue since the MX missile. 
As with the B-l bomber, which took 12 years 
in the development stage, military technology 
is quick to be conceived, but takes a long time 
to be implemented.
One major question left in the minds of all 
concerned is will all the money, time, and 
research thrust into this program be futile? The 
Air Force does not believe so. They feel that, 
The position we are in is one of moderate risk, 
but based on things that are predictable.
Dr. Albert E. Carnesal
Academic Dean
John F. Kennedy School of Government 
Harvard University
Haroks, Doves and Omls
fln Agenda for Avoiding Iluclear War_______
8:30 pm
Thursday, March 13
The Adamson Wing, Porter Hail
Carngi-riel Ion Uniwr*i tg
Sponsored by
The Offic# of the 
Vice President for Academic Affairs
Carneg i -fl 11 on Un i vrs i ty
ODYSSEY 
A Program of
Unitod Campus Ministry of Pittsburgh

---------------------------------------------------

.March 4, 1986The TartanPage 3
Iraq loses ground to Iran in Gulf War
by GAVIN WILLIAMS
Tartan Staffuriter
The Dawn 8" offensive launched by Iran 
on Feb. 9, 1986, is the continuation of the bit
ter six-vear conflict between Iran and Iraq. This 
newest Iranian offensive in the Gulf War began 
with apparent gains for Ayatollah Khomeinis 
troops, against those of Iraq's President Sad
dam Hussein. However, the offensive seems to 
have ground to a stalemate, as have virtually 
all other past attacks by both nations.
"Dawn 8" began when Iranian troops cross
ed the Shatt-al-Arab waterway and captured the 
Iraqi port of Faw. Despite the fact that the of
fensive surprised the Iraqi forces and was an 
impressive military maneuver (the Shatt waterwav being a formidable natural obstacle), the 
port of Faw is of little importance, having been 
derelict since 1980.
The attack was actually more of a diversionary 
move to disguise a larger attack near the city 
of Basra on February 11th. Artillery bombard
ments of Basra and nearby Shuaiba began then 
and are reported to be continuing. Iran feels 
that only by capturing Basra or Umm Qasr (a 
city inland from Faw) can they overthrow Hussein. They feel the humiliation of losing Basra 
would be too much, but this mav be incorrect. 
The Iranian prediction, at the beginning of war. 
that many of Iraq s Shii Muslims (Irans Muslim 
sect) would rise up against Hussein, proved to 
be wrong.
Recent reports about the offensive, bv both 
the Iranians and Iraqis, have been conflicting. 
Iran claims it is continuing to move into Iraq, 
while Iraq is claiming it has surrounded Irans 
forces. However, both sides make similar ac
cusations of the illegal use of chemical warfare. 
The reports on the number killed and wound
ed in the offensive also vary, with Iranian 
reports of Iraqi casualties of about 10,000 and 
Iraqi reports of Iranian dead at 2,400. These 
high losses are reflective of what has been go
ing on since the Gulf War began in September. 
1980.
Tensions between Iran and Iraq go back cen
turies. a legacy of territorial disputes between 
Arabians and Persians. However, the launching 
of the 1980 Iraqi offensive was provoked largely 
by the Ayatollah Khomeinis radical religious 
policies. The reasonably stable ties developed 
between Baghdad and the Teheran of the Shah 
were broken when Khomeini won his Islamic
revolution and proclaimed a policy of hostility 
toward President Hussein's Baath regime.
Despite an imbalance between the popula
tions of Iraq and Iran (approximately 15 million 
to 44 million). Hussein, relying on Iraq's 
superior armed forces supplied largely by the 
USSR, launched a successful initial phase of the 
war. Caught off guard and still in revolutionary 
turmoil, the Iranians were driven far into their 
own territory. However, Hussein's decision 
would prove to be one of this centuries worst 
strategic miscalculations.
The U.S. reaction to this initial offensive was 
one of neutrality because of poor relations with 
both Iran and Iraq. Along with this neutral 
stance. President Carter proclaimed a U.S. com
mitment to defend the Gulf against outside 
threats. President Reagan's policy in 1981 was 
similar, with the additional pledge to keep the 
Gulf open to oil shipping. In 1982. the Iranians 
launched three massive offensives in an effort 
to drive the Iraqis back across the border. Dur
ing this period. Iran first employed its human 
wave tactic, which involves sending large 
numbers of troops, many of them only boys, 
through Iraqi minefields and the swampland 
towards the enemy. This tactic proved sueStock market makes money, but...
By JAMES MEACHAM
Tartan Staffuriter
Playing the stock market is a great way to earn 
money. However, when done incorrectly, it is 
also the easiest way I know to get 
rid of your lifes savings and never 
see it again. Here are some dos 
and don'ts in the market.
First, decide how much you are willing to lose, 
and never, never invest more than that amount. 
There is no such thing as a sure thing on the 
market, so do not put your rent or food money 
in the market.
Second, now that you have decided you have 
$500 you could do without, look before you 
buy. Guessing blindly what stock to buy (or tak
ing a hot tip from Slimeball Louie) is much like 
playing roulette; you may get rich, but then los
ing big is an equally likely possibility. Instead, 
read financial magazines; go to the library (real
ly, it's painless); just find some information on 
the stock you intend to buy to make sure the 
company is sound. Buying stock without in
vestigating it is like going on a blind date (which 
is often painful).
continued on page 5
IraqIran
Forces
520,000Troops700.000
3,570Tanks1,250
3,250Armored Vehicles1,190
3,500Artillerv1,350
520Planes80
100Helicopters50
Population
15 Million43.8 Million
Date: April 15. 1985
cessful in the 1982 offensives and by 
November. Iranian troops where in Iraqi 
territory.
This period represented a low point for Hus
sein. Not only had his offensive failed to over
throw Khomeini (in fact the war has strengthen
ed Khomeini's support and kept his Islamic 
revolution alive), but he faced problems within 
his country . The worst of these was that his 
financial reserves were exhausted because of 
the destruction of Iraqs oil facilities in the Gulf 
and restrictions on exporting oil by the Syrian 
decision to close off a pipe line going through 
Syria.
However, with Iran's military victories in 
1982 and the possibility Iraq might fall, leav
ing Iran in a position of power, U.S. policy 
tilted towards Iraq. This included help in 
planning pipelines and the reopening of 
diplomatic ties, but no arms sales.
With their backs to the wall, the Iraqi's stop
ped the Iranian al-Amarna offensive in 1983. 
inflicting heavy casualties on the Iranian army. 
This marked the beginning of a stalemate that 
has continued up to now along lines roughly cor
responding to the border. The Iranian strategy 
switched, in 1983. to a series of smaller scale 
attacks along selective points on the Iraqi lines.
Earlv in 1984. a new phase of the Gulf war 
began, which essentially expanded the conflict 
outside Iran and Iraq's borders. In February. 
Iran threatened to close the Strait of Hormuz 
and so cut off one-sixth of the non-Communist 
worlds oil supply. The threat was initiated by 
Iraqi threats to bomb Iran's oil installations on 
the Persian Gulf. The Reagan Administration 
vowed to keep the Straits open, using U.S. war
ships in the area if needed. Iraq then began 
missile attacks on oil tankers and merchant 
ships in mid-1984. These attacks have con
tinued. damaging over 70 vessels, but failing 
to close the Gulf.
continued on page 4
free walk-ln tutoring program 
ach week
pontoivd by Mudwtf Aflata and > CountMng and ud*nl Dcvvtopnwnl Cnlr In Mofwood Oardant, I low, 2*22
Sunday thru thursday 7pm-10pm
CalculusPH -126A
Pre 1. II. HI
PhysicsPH - 126B
ChemistryPH -2256
EngBshasaBH -1356
second language
EconomicsPH-226B
Intro to ComputingWEH-5415
Financial AccountingPH-226C
Academic Writing ProblemsBH - 235B
You Are Invited 
1st Annual Summer Job Fair
Hosted By: The Career Services & Placement Office 
The Office of Financial Aid 
Date: Tuesday, March 18. 1986 
Place: Skibo Ballroom 
Time: 9 a m.-4 p.m.
EMPLOYEE IMFOEMATIOH AVAILABLE 
AT CS&P OFFICE. WASHES HALL 19- 
liAECH 14, 1966
BEING RESUMESII

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanMarch 11, 1986
The U.S. and U.S.S.R. walk a tricky line in Gulf War
continued from page 3
Iranian tactics on land, in 1984, had revers
ed back to the strategy of trying to achieve one 
major victory that would lead to President Hus
seins ouster. In mid-1984, the Iranians amass
ed a large force (250.000) in the southern sec
tor opposite Basra. This offensives objective 
was to cut communications between Baghdad 
and Basra and divide the Iraqi forces in area. 
However, the Iraqi troops were confident that 
their military superiority would defeat the Ira
nian human waves.' This, along with low 
morale in Teheran lead to the failure of the of
fensive and continuation of the stalemate.
By April, 1985, both the Iranians and Iraqis 
began bombing each others cities, inflicting 
heavy civilian casualties. The wars concentra
tion also moved at this time, to the island of 
Kharg, an Iranian oil terminal in the Gulf. Ira
qi planes bombed Kharg, forcing the Iranians 
to charter supertankers to shuttle crude oil fur
ther south.
The horrendous casualties sustained by Iran 
caused one source to state that further land of
fensives should be out of the question. 
Western estimates of these losses put Iranian 
dead at between 420.000 to 580.000 and Iraqi 
dead at 300,000 for a total of close to a million 
dead in five years of warfare. The Iranians are 
also plagued by a shortage of spare parts for 
their tanks and planes and maintenance per
sonnel to service them.
On December 20. 1985, Iraq asked the 
United Nations to help stop an expected Iranian 
offensive (the one that just began). And on 
January 12. 1986. armed Iranian sailors stop
ped and searched an American merchant ship 
in international water near the Persian Gulf. 
Although there were no losses or injuries, the 
Reagan Administration saw it as a matter of
serious concern. If nothing else, it drew attention 
towards the Gulf war, which lately has had very 
little coverage and is ignored by the U.S. public.
Few people realize the Gulf war is turning into 
the most destructive confrontation since World 
War II. If the war continues, as it seems it will, 
the interests of the U.S. and its Western allies 
could be threatened. Although not the only 
Western interest in the Gulf, oil is the most im
portant and influential one. Three major policy 
objectives for the U.S., with respect to the Gulf 
war, center around oil.
The first is the prevention of any disruption 
of Gulf oil shipments that could harm Western 
economies. The second objective is to ensure
the security of oil-producing Gulf states friend
ly to the West. The U.S., in insuring this, has 
helped strengthen air-defense systems around 
the Persian Gulf. Third, the U.S. wants an out
come of the war that does not give the Soviet 
Union a dominant position in either Iran or Iraq, 
and that also gives the West the chance to 
rebuild ties with both nations.
The outcome most likely to bring this last ob
jective about would be an Iranian victory, for 
Iraq has close ties with the USSR and would 
probably be most exploited by the Soviets if they 
won. However, an Iranian victory also presents 
a certain dilemma for the West. If the present 
government (under Khomeini) remains in
power, there would be the danger of wider Ira. 
nian efforts to overthrow the regions moderate 
pro-West governments. If military force was used against these allies, the U.S. would have to 
be ready to intervene with its armed forces 
Even if military power was not used, the Iranians increased presence in the area would pr0. 
bably harm Western interests in the long run
Because of this dilemma, the most logical* 
solution seems to be the opening of some ties 
with the Iranian government, at least with its 
less radical members. It is these officials who 
are more concerned with consolidating the 
Islamic revolution at home, than with exporting 
it (which is Khomeinis goal). Although the U.S. 
is tilted toward Iraq, officials realize the long 
range importance of Iran is much greater.
Because the Soviets also see this long range I 
importance, the U.S. has another reason to 
develop closer ties with Iran. If Irans superior I 
manpower was to overcome Husseins forces*: 
and a less radical government gained power, 
the Soviets would more than likely attempt to 
fulfill their desire for a warm water port by 
either developing close ties to or taking control j 
of Iran. Developing slightly better ties with Iran 
is essential for the U.S. if it wants to influence 
the less radical government that might one day j 
overthrow Khomeinis extremists.
At the moment, both the U.S. and USSR will 
be content if the war ends in a stalemate. If the 
present offensive against Faw and Basra is any * 
indication, it seems the chances of a decisive1' 
victory for either side are slim. However, 
without a drastic change in either sides 
economies, tactics or leadership, this destruc
tive war will continue to kill hundreds of 
thousands ofschoolage soldiers and civilians, 
and sap the energies of both countries, rather 
than simply ending in a stalemate.
STUDENT SENATE FUNDING AND RECOGNITION COMMITTEE 
SPRING 1986 REPORT TO ALL ACTVITIES FEE PAYING STUDENTS
As required by the Student Senate Fiscal Policy I, Tamal Mukher jee, 
respectfully submit the summary of the subsidy allocations that the 
Funding and Recognition Committee will recommend to the Student Senate 
at 7:00 pm on Tuesday^ March 18, l?86j> at the Wherrett Room in Ski bo.
Representatives of all the Organizations listed below are required to be 
present at the meeting.
OrganizationSubsidy
Actvities Board121,275
Activities Fair1 ,777
Astronomy Club591
Basebal1 Club2,552
Carnegie Melting Pot335
Carnegie Tech Radio Club+, *+35
Chinese Students Organization1 ,085
Explorers Club1 , +66
Forbes Gallery6 ,725
Gaming Club205
Hockey Club9, 132
Kiltie Marching Band5,735
Rugby Club1 ,052
Sp i r i t5,307
Student CorporationT h ear
Student Senate8,025
T artan26,810
Th i s11e13,278
WRCT33, 57*+
TOTAL2^  899
Please note that these are only the Spring budqets, and that the above 
organizations may use the funds between July 1, 1986 and June 30, 1987.
All Activities Fee paying students are invited to come to the meeting 
and participate in the allocation process. I would like to take this 
opportunity to express my appreciation to the members of the Funding and 
Recognition Committee, and especially to Dean Cox, for all the work they 
have done in making this a succesful semester for the committee.
TAMAL MUKHERJFE 
co-Cha i r,
Funding and Recognition Committee

---------------------------------------------------

March 11, 1986The TartanPage 5
Minutes of the Student Senate, 
March 4, 1986
The Greek and Non-Greek Committee was 
granted a special loan of $3.000.00 for quartersSecurity: Crimes and services report
Meeting called to order 7:05.for the Miracle Mile. This loan will be paid back
Present: Appelbaum, Ayre, Bram. Cohen,on Mon. March 10.01/01/86 to 01/31/8602/01/86 to 02/28/86
Flvnn, Frank. Giles. Greenberg A, GreenbergPublic Relations: Senate raised $109.00 forASSAULT6ASSAULT5
M. Hausman. Jagerski, Kaplan. Kornbrek. Lon-MS from ice cream fundraiser.ROBBERY1ROBBERY0
skv, McDonnell, Mukherjee, Murphy, Noesen,The Student Senate Presidential debate is tenRAPE0RAPE0
Patnaik, Rocher, Sheinfeld, Taylor. Trampel.tatively scheduled for Mon. April 2.SUICIDE0SUICIDE0
Absent: Bollinger, Hvnes(excused), Lee A.(exMeeting Adjourned 8:10.INDECENT EXPOSURE0INDECENT EXPOSUREO4L
cused), Novak(excused), Salomon(excused), 
Welsh. Whvsel(excused).RembemberBURGLARY
THEFT
11
44
BURGLARY
THEFT
9
23
Audience Participation: none.No one winsCRIMINAL MISCHIEF22CRIMINAL MISCHIEF31
President: The MS drive is a success. RockCRIMINAL ATTEMPT7CRIMINAL ATTEMPT9
Alike raised approximately $5438.all the timePROWLING AT NIGHT0PROWLING AT NIGHT1
Are there any changes you would like to seeTRESPASS0TRESPASS1
Skibo undergo? Send your wish list to Karen 
Lee.in the stock marketSUSPICIOUS PERSON 
DISORDERLY CONDUCT
22
16
SUSPICIOUS PERSON 
DISORDERLY CONDUCT
30
12
SDC: SDC haircut fundraiser raised $400 forcontinued from page 3PRANKS5PRANKS3
MS.Third, set a strategy and stick to it. If youHARASSMENT7HARASSMENT8
Academic Affairs: AA committee is currentlydon't want to lose more than 10% of your inBOMB THREAT0BOMB THREAT0
working on getting student input on tenure decivestment, sell when the price falls 10% fromASSIST OUTSIDE AGENCY11ASSIST OUTSIDE AGENCY12
sions. There is also a committee on Facultythe purchase price. Time and again peopleUNAUTHORIZED PERSON3UNAUTHORIZED PERSON2
Senate to get students involved in tenure.watch their investment fall to 50% or less ofMISSING PERSON1MISSING PERSON6
Campus Affairs: Campus Affairs has doneits original worth and hang on hoping it willTotal Crimes156Total Crimes154
some extensive investigation regarding the trafrecover. Their hope springs eternal as their
fic problems at Forbes Ave. and Morewood.losses mount. If you cut your losses early andMEDICAL CALLS83MEDICAL CALLS102
Forbes Ave. at Skibo entrance. Margaret Morgo on to the next investment, you wont be facALARMS279ALARMS272
rison St. at Tech St, and Margaret Morrison St.ed with this sort of dilemma. Remember thatFIRE9FIRE11
at Donner bend. They have identified the trouno one wins on the market all the time, and beNOISE COMPLAINT16NOISE COMPLAINT16
ble spots and formulated some feasible soluprepared to accept this as a fact of life.MAINTENANCE CONDITION264MAINTENANCE CONDITION265
tions. They plan to first go to the administraitonLikewise, decide what profit you would likePOWER OUTAGE0POWER OUTAGE0
then to the City of Pittsburgh to get some action.to realize from your investment. Once you havePROPERTY DAMAGE5PROPERTY DAMAGE6
Direct any comments/suggestions regarding thereached that profit, dont be greedy, just takeSAFETY OBSERVATION4SAFETY OBSERVATION9
condition of CMUs current Health Services towhat you asked for. This applies more to theSPECIAL158SPECIAL134
Peter Cohen or the Campus Health Advisoryshorter term, riskier investments (such as MomSIGNAL TWO (DOOR OPEN)703SIGNAL TWO (DOOR OPEN)777
Committee.ma Rosas fad of the month club selling wind-ESCORTS70ESCORTSo5
Funding c Recognition: The Association forup yo-yos) more than longer term, more stableVEHICLE ACCIDENT9VEHICLE ACCIDENT12
Industrial Management and Econofnics (AIME)investments (such as mutual funds or governASSIST OUTSIDE AGENCY5ASSIST OUTSIDE AGENCY10
was recognized as funded. Their budget ofment bonds), but is a sound part of any goodMONEY RUNS66MONEY RUNS62
$682.00 was also passed.investing strategy.FIREDRILLS0FIREDRILLS0
The Ultimate Frisbee Club was granted a specialFinally, for those of you who are faint at heartMEDICAL RETURNS69MEDICAL RETURNS73
additional allocation for travel to captains conand cant stand to lose $5, put your money inSTATION DETAIL81STATION DETAIL145
ference of $60.00.to something safer than the market (may I sugPERSONAL ACCIDENT7PERSONAL ACCIDENT3
Spring Carnival Organization was granted agest a crap game?). For those of you who doTotal Service1828Total Service1962
special allocation for power for Spring Carnivalyour homework, can take some risk and still get
of $2,307.00.to sleep at night, good luck and happy returns!Crand Total1984Grand Total2116
COMPUTING AT CMU 
THE ANDREW SYSTEM
Tuesday, March 11 
5:00-6:30 
7500 Wean Hall
Come to learn about the workstations, Andrew, educa
tional applications, and the campus wiring plans. 
There will be demos of Andrew and CMU Tutor. 
Various workstations will be available for your use.
Funded by the Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Campus stores and 
student hours
The campus stores at Carnegie Mellon do a good job 
of meeting students' needs for the most part. They carry 
most of the necessities of college life and have 
reasonably convenient operating hours. But nothing is 
fool proof, and The Tartan Editorial Board suggests two 
ways to improve upon the current service: first, extend 
the campus bookstore hours to include weekend and/or 
more evening hours, and second, make snack food 
available in Skibo for more hours in the day, particularly 
on weekends.
The artstore has convenient hours for students. It is 
open until 8:00 Monday through Thursday, until 5:00 
Friday, and from 10:00 until 3:00 on Saturday. This 
gives most students ample time to get what they need. 
Recently the bookstore extended its hours and is now 
open until 6:30 on Thursday. The change was made 
to accomodate students with evening classes, but what 
about the rest of us who may have tight schedules all 
week? Because of classes and jobs, many students on
ly have time to run into the bookstore, grab what they 
need, and run back out. hoping they haven't forgotten 
anything. They certainly have no time to look around 
at what the store sells besides text books and basic of
fice supplies. And what happens when students run out 
of the supplies they need to finish a project by Mon
day, for example? Many students must walk down to 
the Pitt Book Center which is open from 9:30 to 5:00 
on Saturday.
Also, having the bookstore open from noon to 5:00 
on Saturday would not only make it more accessible 
to students, but would also give parents and prospec
tive students who visit on random weekends a chance 
to look around or buy a sweatshirt. The bookstore does 
stay open on Saturdays for special events like homecom
ing and Parent's Weekend, but these are not the only 
times when prospective freshmen and their families are 
on campus.
In addition to expanding bookstore hours, making 
snack food available around the clock in Skibo would 
be an improvement on campus. Currently it is difficult 
for students to get a snack at times when they may most 
need one, like late at night. Scotland Yard has hours 
which are consistent with the hours kept by most col
lege students, but the pub does not currently offer a 
wide variety of simple snack foods. While there are ven
ding machines in Morewood and Donner, and some of 
the academic buildings, they are often empty by the 
weekend.
Two solutions to the snack food problem present 
themselves, first, vending machines could be placed in 
the lower level of Skibo. Theoretically, this would make 
snack food available around the clock in Skibo. The 
disadvantages to this are that vending machines tend 
to be vandalized. They also get emptied outso while 
machines in Skibo might help the problem, they will 
not alleviate it altogether.
An even better solution to the problem rests with 
Scotland Yard. Because it has more convenient hours 
for providing late night snacks than any other food place 
on campus, it stands the best chance of providing for 
students after-hours cravings. Once the pub revamps 
its menu, and includes more snack-type food, snacks 
will be available for, at least, more hours of the day, 
if not around the clock.
The managers of the campus stores are receptive to 
making changes in their business hours to accomodate 
students, but they first have to know what students want. 
If it is the opinion of students on campus that changes 
should be made, then they must voice those opinions 
in order to see the desired improvements made on 
campus.
Letters:
Senior banquet disappointing
Editor:
Recently, the Alumni Association 
and SARC sponsored a Senior Ban
quet to supposedly honor the Class 
of 1986 for their efforts towards ear
ning a college degree. But sadly, this 
event was all too typical of the ad
ministration's failure to foster any 
positive student/administration 
relations.
I have to admit I was looking for
ward to this event. I had heard that 
past Senior Banquets were very nice, 
and was looking forward to enjoying 
a good meal with some good friends. 
But instead, I got the atmosphere of 
being in a McDonalds during lun
chtime. There was no official in
troduction by any administration of
ficial. No one even told us to begin
Stolen cars
Editor:
I am writing to warn CMU facul
ty, staff and students against park
ing their cars in Schenley Park. Mine 
was stolen last week and I would like 
to prevent others from going through 
this miserable experience. My car 
was parked on the road called Tech 
Drive which emerges from the park 
at the small pond and statue, behind 
GSIA. Since I have announced the 
theft, at least a dozen people have 
told me that their cars were also 
stolen or broken into from that loca
tion within the last year. Had I realiz
ed the danger, I never would have 
parked there. The CMU police are 
not responsible for that area, and it 
is just isolated enough to allow ac
cess to car thieves.
If you do not have a parking 
sticker. I would suggest parking at 
a meter or parking in the area of 
Beeler. Just don't park in Schenley 
unless you are ready to get rid of 
your car.
Kacliael Naismitli 
Hunt Lihrar\
eating. I guess I started to eat my 
salad out of fear that it would turn 
into some other organic life form. 
And so it went with each of the 
subsequent courses. Finally, some 
wine (Pittsburgh Brewing Company 
vintage Feb 1986) was brought out, 
and the evening came to an exciting 
conclusion with a toast from the Stu
dent Council President. No one in
formed us the affair was over, so 
everyone just filed out and left.
This type of wham-bam-thank-youmaam (or sir) affair only serves to
reinforce my attitude that the ad
ministration really doesnt care too/ 
much about the social needs of its 
students. But who knows, maybe one 
of the higher-ups will pay attention 
to this letter, and future Senior Ban
quets and other student activities will 
be run with a little more class and 
with more concern for the students. 
But Fve learned not to expect too 
much from this administration.
Jeffrey Hayes 
Class of 1986 
Electrical Engineering
Rock-A-Like thanks...
Editor:
I would like to take this opportuni
ty to thank all of the people who 
made the March 1 MS Rock-A-Like 
such an incredible success. First to 
Faramarz Shargh (Mouse), you did 
a great job coordinating all the dif
ferent groups and building this whole 
event from the start. Very few peo
ple will ever know how many peo
ple and different things you had to 
deal with. Next to Rich Miller, 
Mouses job was by no means for 
one man only and Rich was there to 
take half the burden. Also, I would 
like to thank all of the members of 
both Theta Xi and Alpha Tau Omega 
for showing up in numbers and 
working hard until the job was done. 
Another major contribution was 
made by Karen Lee. She was very 
nervous about everything going well, 
and her diligent work to handle 
many of the details of the show paid 
off completely. A fourth member of 
the executives was Chrissy Hynes. 
She took care of a great many details 
including all of the photography for 
the group voting boxes.
In actually producing the show I 
would like to thank Mr. Meckley and 
Mr. Banner who helped us turn the 
gym into a concert hall. Thanks also 
to both Physical Plant and ABM for 
helping with chairs and mats. In this
area Mr. Binstock was of invaluable 
help. In making a show like this hap
pen there is an incredible amount of 
work in putting up a sound and light 
show. The crew started early Friday 
morning and worked hard through 
the night and all day Saturday to 
make the show as professional and 
memorable as possible. In addition, 
it took just as long to tear it all down 
and pack it up. Folks, you did an in
credible job. All of you were willing 
to put in more than anyone could 
ever ask. As a crew you are the finest 
and hardest working group that I 
have ever worked with. Many of you 
accomplished things that you had 
never even tried before, and the 
results speak for themselves. 
Carnegie Mellon doesnt own most 
of the equipment to produce that 
show. Steed Audio, Joe Peco 
Lighting, and Chujko Bros, and 
Ryder Trucks all contributed to 
make the production what it was.
Finally, Id like to thank the per
formers themsleves. You all did a 
terrific job. You were the most im
portant part of all. A special thanks 
to WYDD for their support. Most of 
all 1 would like to thank everyone 
who attended this show. There were 
over 1200 of you and your contribu
tions made it all worthwhile.
continued on page 7

---------------------------------------------------

.March 11, 1986The TartanPa^e 7
Drug legalization: an increasingly popular idea?
By DAN TOBIAS
Over a year ago. I wrote a column for The 
Tartan advocating the legalization of all 
eurrentlv-iilegal drugs. Since then there seems 
to be some gradual progress being made in the 
- ? direction of making this position
m recognized as a reasonable option. 
Although the government and the 
media continue to spread the usual 
drug-suppression hysteria, hardly ever letting 
^anybody know that an alternative exists to the 
current prohibitionist policies, there does seem 
to be a growing feeling among more intelligent 
segments of the public that perhaps it is not a 
good idea to use governmental coercion to sup
press people with differing viewpoints as to what 
substances should be placed in their own 
bodies.
For example, arch-conservative William F. 
Buckley, who once advocated that all drug users 
be thrown in jail indefinitely until they can be
cured . recently came out in favor of legaliza
tion. He reasoned that under current govern
ment policies, we still have a drug problem, 
but we also have an organized-crime problem 
due to the black-market profits engendered bv 
the drug laws; and we are forced to devote 
millions of dollars of the taxpayers' monev in 
a futile, never-ending war on drugs"; the more 
drugs the authorities seize, it seems the more 
end up reaching the streets anywav.
Several other opinion leaders, such as colum
nist Sydney Harris, have followed suit by ad
vocating some form of drug legalization simplv 
as a practical measure. However, what none of 
these people have yet recognized is the in
dividual liberties aspect of the situation. By what 
right can the government throw me in jail just 
because I with to introduce a substance into mv 
own body without their permission, or sell such 
a substance to a consenting adult?
The Roe v. Wade decision established the
.Inquiring Minds Column
By The Inquiring Staff
Recently, we read that Emerson College has 
If decided that it can no longer stav 
on its campus in downtown Boston 
 because of space problems. 
Carnegie Mellon is suffering from 
the same dilema. The administration is rapidlv 
running out of places to put PC Clusters. 
Wouldnt it be easier to move the campus than 
to try to evict Mr. Rogers from his 
neighborhood? As always we have several
* suggestions.
Now, none of us want to leave the Burgh." 
Instead, we could act like any normal institu
tion when it can't stay downtown; flee to the 
suburbs. We could become the Monroeville 
Mall of academia!
Perhaps the answer doesn't lie in Pittsburgh, 
or even Pennsylvania. Seattle comes to mind 
as a perfect alternative. It's got almost as many 
bridges, plenty of closed steel mills, even more 
rain, and a baseball team almost, but not quite, 
as good as the Pirates. We'd miss the Cathedral 
of Learning and the 0's, but we'd gain the 
Space Needle and Mt. St. Helens!
Another excellent choice would be Fargo, 
North Dakota. Of course, Fargo isn't America's 
Most Livable City, but it is the Least Stressful 
Place in America. We as college students could 
appreciate the lessened stress, but really what 
is there to get worked up over in Fargo?
If we really can't give up Pittsburgh, there's 
Birmingham, the self-proclaimed Pittsburgh of 
the South". We d never have to hear pop. yins. 
or dahntahn ever again. Of course, they talk 
even funnier there. Y'all hear?
As a last resort, we could always buy Emer
son's campus.
Next week the 1986-87 Housing Lottery 
begins. The Inquiring Prognosticators would like 
to predict that for the first time in CMU history. 
Hamerschlag will be filled by seniors. Three 
weeks later it will be discovered that the CIA 
had been experimenting with subliminal 
messages displayed over TOPS.
Personally, we d like a room in Morewood C 
Tower, the one with the Coke-can Gothic arch. 
But we really don't give a damn.The Inquiring Staff is Stew Levine, Randy Wilson, and Chris Williams.
Letters continued: 
Scotland Yard reactsEditor:
As Public Relations Director for Scotland 
Yard I would like to take this time to clear up 
some misconceptions that have been shown in 
the Reaction column of March 4, 1986. 
^About a quarter of the people asked had never 
even been to Scotland Yard and to those peo
ple I must ask another question, why? 
Specifically this year we have expanded our 
hours and we are the only on campus place to 
get food and drink until 2 a.m. on Thursdays, 
Fridays and Saturdays. We are even planning 
to expand hours after Spring Break to accom
modate the campus at large even more.
To reply to two statements by Pitawas Indharameesup, that we are being run as a total
ly separate entity like McDonalds and that we 
are too crowded, I can only say that you are 
* mistaken. We are not a separate entity. Scotland 
Yard is considered a club by CMU and as a 
result have an account with the cashier s office 
just like SDC and The Tartan. We are required 
to transact with Student Affairs and CMU Ac
counting ine order to pay our bills A few weeks 
ago our regular Monday meeting was inter
rupted a few weeks ago by one of our creditors 
who had not received payment in a reasonable 
amount of time.
If McDonalds did move into the Scotland 
Yard in the same manner in which we receiv
ed it, they would be astonished by the lack of 
consultation that went on between the people 
who were planning to use the room and the 
planners. Last year CMU was given specifica
tions by the committee, but they were thrown 
out somewhere along the fine. Money that 
should have been spent re-wiring the kitchen
(which is shared with any organization that is 
in the ballroom) was spent on putting Oak on 
the walls. Our new menu has been postponed 
until the re-wiring of the kitchen can be done 
because our new cooker keeps setting off the 
circuit-breakers.
As for being a bit too crowded I only wish 
it was. I have been yelled at only too often since 
assuming this position because we are not 
crowded or at times, because we are empty.
Scotland Yard has also been place under the 
interdict by the Music and Drama department. 
This means that we are cut off from some of 
the best up and coming talent unless they are 
given special permission by the department. We 
dont mind because this gives us the ability to 
get some of the hidden talent that is in the other 
part of our university.
Scotland Yard is also hampered by its cur
rent low in the membership of the club that sup
ports it. If you are interested please give us a 
call at extension 4965 or come to our weekly 
meeting Mondays at 4:30 inside Scotland Yard.David Levy PR Director. Scotland Yard.
Rock-A-Like
continued from page 6
Im sure that Ive left someone out, but if I 
did its only because there were so many peo
ple who helped so much. Again, thank you 
everyone for making Rock-A-Like such a 
smashing success.Stephen Winawer Senior ECE
constitutional right of a woman to do what she 
wanted with her own body. (I'll set aside for 
now the question of w hether the fetus is another 
person involved in an abortion. I dont wish
to debate the abortion issue now; God knows 
it s been done enough already. At any rate, if 
vou oppose abortion because you consider it to 
be murder, this does not nullify the concept of 
personal privacy in cases in which nobody else 
is harmed.) By extension, shouldnt all men and 
women have the unqualified right to selfmedication of their ow n bodies, regardless of 
whether a doctor has issued a prescription?
Some object that the use of drugs does harm 
others, since a drug user might go on a 
murderous rampage and kill others, or get into 
a car and kill others on the highway. First of 
all. this is rather overblown; people have ab
sorbed so much of the hysterical propaganda 
disseminated by the government that many ac
tually think that the slightest bit of dope will 
turn the most reasonable person into a raving 
maniac. Simply not true. Some drugs, such 
as heroin, actually tend to put the user to sleep 
(narcotics is derived from the word for 
sleep'') or at least into a lethargic daze, in 
which he is markedly less likely to commit 
crimes than a normally-alert person.
Some drugs, such as PCP (Angel Dust ). 
actually do drive the user crazy (at least tem
porarily). but for this reason, few people in the 
know voluntarily use such drugs. Most PCP use 
has taken place when drug dealers have sneakilv added the substance to other drugs without 
the knowledge of the purchaser, or when 
government crackdowns on other drugs manage
to succeed to such an extent that PCP. a 
substance which can be produced in a highschool chemistry lab. is the only dope 
available.
Other drugs have various effects which might 
possiblv increase the user's tendency to 
violence, or impair their driving. However, 
alcohol, a legal drug, is among the worst of this 
type. Thus, if legalization shifts some alcohol 
usage to other drugs, it might actually decrease 
the amount of harm caused by the people 
involved!
One should also consider the harm caused 
bv the drug laws themselves. This includes the 
spread of AIDS and other diseases through 
unsterilized needles (due to the law against pur
chasing a hypodermic needle without a prescrip
tion); a recently-reported adulteration of cocaine 
with a cancer-producing agent because the 
governmet effectively closed the line of supply 
of non-carcinogenic ingredients that had 
previously been used; and the general harm to 
civil liberties and constitutional rights caused 
by the ever-escalating campaign against drugs, 
which causes law-enforcement agencies to push 
for increased rights to conduct searches, 
seizures, and wiretaps.
It is time that people recognized the futility 
of the war on drugs ". and realized that it is 
truly a w ar against people who only wish to run 
their own lives without governmental in
terference. If we wish to support individual 
liberty and free enterprise in all its aspects, one 
must recognize the right of consenting adults 
to engage in the sale and use of drugs. Legalize 
narcotics!
MS drive brings change
By LISA McANANY
 Tartan Editor-in-Chief
A change for the better seems to be taking 
place in the attitudes of many students at 
Carnegie Mellon. The prime example of this 
change is the current effort to raise money for 
the MS Society. The activities sur
rounding the MS drive reflect that 
students care about something 
besides classes, that they want to 
accomplish something, and that there is a 
unification within the student body which has 
been sadly lacking in past semesters.
Granted, Carnegie Mellon is highly deman
ding academically, but to be completely absorb
ed by classes is to over-look the other impor
tant parts of college life. Students who put their 
time into organizing and participating in fund
raisers acknowlege that their grades are not the 
be-all and end-all. As more students realize this, 
Carnegie Mellon will be a more enjoyable place.
In the course of all these efforts and events, 
the student body is also supporting a very wor
thy cause. Even if we don't get our M-TV con
cert, we will have made a marked contribution 
to the efforts to prevent MS and other 
debilitating diseases. We have collectively ac
complished something.
Aside from the monetary results, the best 
aspect of the fund-raising campaign is that it 
gave the entire campus a tangible goal to work 
toward. Working to achieve that goal brought 
together wide varieties of groups and individuals 
with a common purpose. Everyone who con
tributed to the fund-raising drive should be pro
ud of what has been accomplished. If even one 
of those individuals were to be taken away, the 
effort would not be the success it is. Everyone 
should be individually congratulated, and the 
student body as a whole should be con
gratulated for working together to support such 
a great cause.
The Tartan
Lisa I). McAnany
Editor-in-Chief
Olve PeersenJohn Friedmann
Managing EditorBusiness Manager
Yijay RetklyChristy CasamassimaBruee kasrel
ISIetts EditorFeatures EditorEntertainment Editor
Jill DorsonJack PollerMichael P. Mcliugh
Sports EditorPhotography EditorArt Editor
Albrecht T. PowellCeleste ClarkKathryn A. Siller
Production ManagerAd ManagerTypesetting Manager
John BabichMohan KinbarKaren (iraj
Dossier EditorContributing EditorContributing Editor
The Editorial appearing at the Deginning of the 
opinion section is the official opinion of The Tar
tan editorial board. Columns are the opinions 
of individual authors who are not necessarily on 
The Tartan Editorial Board or Staff. Letters to 
the Editor are opinions of individual authors who 
are usually members of the Univerity communi
ty. A letter intended for publication must be sign
ed and include the writers address and phone 
number for verification. Names will be withheld 
upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to 
condense or reject any letter.
Copyright  1986 by The Tartan. The 
Editorial Board reserves the right to withhold 
from publication any copy it deems unfit for 
publication.
Office: Skibo 50. (412) 268-2111.
Mailing address: The Tartan
Carnegie Mellon University 
Box 17
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Funded by 
reserved.
the Activities Fet

---------------------------------------------------

spectator
Because
What a team! Gimbels and Reebok, together in one 
terrific place: Reebok...The Concept Shop. The citys 
first and only exclusive Reebok shop! Now, at 
one location, the finest fast-action essentials for 
on-the-go guys and gals. Its all here! The gear, 
the wear, everything you need for working out, 
pumpimg up, muscling, hustling or merely making 
the scene! Starting with the footwear! Rugged, 
reliable Reeboks in nearly a dozen high-performance 
styles. From high-top to high-fashion and many in 
between. And, Reeboks exciting new activewear line. 
Hot, high-energy sweats, shirts, shorts, stirrups, 
tees, tanks, tights. Plus, youll find socks, sweat bands, 
sunglasses, duffle bags, gear bags, aerobic bags 
and more. One shop. One stop. Make it Reebok... 
The Concept Shop, Mellon Square on 1!
More Reebok Shop Talk!
Join us this week for an exciting line-up of events 
as we celebrate the opening of Reebok.. .The Concept 
Shop at Mellon Square!
Tuesday, March 11:
 Joanie Greggains, hostess of the TV exercise show, 
Morning Stretch, presents aerobic workout and 
fitness...noon to 1:30 p.m.
Wednesday, March 12:
 Taking Care of Your Body, a health presentation 
by the Education Department of Magee Womens 
Hospital...noon to 1 p.m., 7th Floor Board Room. 
For reservations 765-8064.
Thursday, March 13:
 Informal modeling of Reebok activewear... 
noon to 1 p.m. featuring Health Works dancers.
Friday, March 14:
 Foot screening and foot care by the Allegheny 
Podiatry Associates...noon to 1 p.m.
Saturday, March 15:
 Informal modeling of Reebok activewear... 
noon to 1 p.m.
And all week long!
 Register to win one of two one-year memberships 
to The New Chatham Racquet & Athletic Club, 
downtown, plus meet and talk with
club representatives.
 Get a gift from Gimbels and Reebok with any 
Reebok purchase throughout the week.

---------------------------------------------------

Sign up to...
COME TO WARM, SUNNY
CALIFORNIA
International Rectifier, leader in power semi
conductor devices, will be interviewing at 
the Student Placement Center March 20.
Students of Chem E., Mat. Sci., E.E.* Mech. E.,
and Applied Physics who truly want to relocate 
to the West Coast sign up now.
For further information, material in place
ment center or call Caroline Altman, Direc
tor of Recruting.
Day: 213-722-2000 
Eve: 213-837-6646
DEBRA ABELL 8:3:dermatologist
easily accessible by bus from CMU
3500 Fifth Ave, Suite 102, Oakland 
682-0616
MasterCard. \ isa accepted 
Call appointment
N. P. MANAGEMENT
NORTH CRAIG STREET TOWNHOUSELARGE, 3-BEDROOM, FURNISHED:
$425 PLUS GAS/ELEC.
ALSO IN SAME BUILDING 
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 1986 TERMLARGER, 2-BEDROOM, FURNISHED APARTMENT: 
$350 PLUS GAS/ELEC.
CALL 751-9639
DECREASE STRESS
SIGN UP FOR WORKSHOPS AT THE COUNSELING CENTER:
MANAGING SCHOOL & PERSONAL STREES
4 Wednesdays, 4:30 - 5:30 p.m.; begins February 26
GOING HOME AGAIN: DEALING WITH PARENTS
2 Wednesdays, 4:00 - 5:00 p.m., March 12 & 19
THE WOMENS GROUP
4 Thursdays, 5:00 - f 00 p.m.; begins February 27
GETTING ALONG: DEALING WITH ROOMATE CONFLICT
4 Tuesdays, 4:30 - 5:3U p.m.; begins February 25
UNDERSTANDING ALCOHOL AND DRUG ABUSE IN FAMILIES
2 Tuesdays, 4:00 - 5:00 p.m., March 11 & 18
FOR INFORMATION AND REGISRATION: Call x2922, or visit 
Counseling & Student Development Center 
Morewood Gardens, E Tower, Room 103 
9:00 a.m. - 12 noon & 1:00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m.
Presenting 
an AB Coffeehouse 
on Friday, March 14 
at 8:00 pm in the 
Wherrett Room.
Dan Peek
A former member of the group America.
camegiemelln
FUNDED BY ACTIVITIES FEE.

---------------------------------------------------

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES 
IS LOOKING FOR ANOTHER OTIS
If you rake an engineering job with a United 
Technologies company, we wont encourage you 
to work as Elisha Otis did. He kept his designs 
and their dimensions in his head.
What we want to see is a hint of Otis fertile, 
intuitive mind. And his eagerness to take a 
crack at every problem that came along.
A semi-automatic lathe. A railroad bridge. A 
water turbine to power his factory. A safety 
brake for trains. Then, in 1852, the first Safety 
Elevator. It was the engineering feat that 
brought fame to him, fortune to his descend
ants, and skyscrapers to the world.
United Technologies appreciates not only the 
specialists in our engineering community, but also 
the inspired generalists. People who accept a 
variety of challenging assignments get the big 
picture. And we get better jet engines, eleva
tors, helicopters, rocket boosters, controls, etc.
Perhaps its appropriate that the company 
Otis founded is now an important part of United 
Technologies.
Interested.7 Visit your campus placement of
fice. Or write United Technologies Corporation, 
P.O. Box 1379, Hartford, CT 06143.
United Technologies means Pratt ik Whitney, Hamilton Standard, Otis, Carrier, Automotive Group, United "Technologies Microelectronics Center, Norden, Chemical Systems, Essex, Sikorsky and United Technologies Research Center.
An eqnal opportunity employer.
UNITED TECHNOLOGIES
T

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
Comics
Gallery
Classifieds
Events
Tartan Oscar Predictions
Category 
& Nominees
Bruce Kasrel
Tartan Entertainment Editor
Joe Ferrugia
Tartan Theatre/Film Critic
Best Picture
Kiss of the Spider Woman
The Color Purple
Out of Africa
Prizzis Honor
Witness
Should have been nominated
Purple Rose of Cairo
My vote
The Color Purple
Who will win
The Color Purple
Should have been nominated
Cocoon
My vote
The Color Purple
Who will win
Out of Africa
Best Actor
Harrison Ford,
Witness 
Jack Nicholson,
Prizzis Honor 
James Garner,
Murphys Romance 
William Hurt,
Kiss of the Spider Woman 
Jon Voight,
Runaway Train
Should have been nominated
Jeff Daniels,
Purple Rose of Cairo 
Eric Stoltz 
Mask
My vote 
William Hurt
Who will win
William Hurt
Should have been nominated
Raul Julia,
Kiss of the Spider Woman 
Robert Redford,
Out of Africa
My vote
Jack Nicholson
Who will win
Jack Nicholson
Best Actress
Whoopi Goldberg,
The Color Purple 
Anne Bancroft,
Agnes of God 
Jessica Lange,
Sweet Dreams 
Meryl Streep,
Out of Africa 
Geraldine Page,
The Trip to Bountiful
Should have been nominated
Kathleen Turner,
Prizzis Honor 
Cher 
Mask
My vote
Whoopi Goldberg
Who will win
Geraldine Page
Should have been nominated
Kathleen Turner,
Prizzis Honor 
Jane Fonda 
Agnes of God
My vote
Anne Bancroft
W ho will win
Geraldine Page
Supporting Actor
Don Ameche,
Cocoon 
Klaus Maria Brandauer 
Out of Africa 
William Hickey,
Prizzis Honor 
Robert Loggia,
Jagged Edge 
Eric Roberts,
Runaway Train
Should have been nominated
Christopher Lloyd,
Back to the Future 
Wilford Brimley,
Cocoon
My vote
Christopher Lloyd
Who will win
Klaus Maria Brandauer
Should have been nominated
Wilford Brimley,
Cocoon
My vote
William Hickey
Who will win
William Hickey
Supporting Actress
Margaret Avery,
The Color Purple 
Oprah Winfrey 
The Color Purple 
Anjelica Huston,
Prizzi V Honor 
Amy Madigan,
Twice in a Lifetime 
Meg Tilly 
Agnes of God
Should have been nominated
Kelly McGillis,
Witness
My vote
Anjelica Huston
W ho will win
Anjelica Huston
Should have been nominated
Kelly McGillis,
Witness
My vote
Oprah Winfrey
Who w ill w in
Anjelica Huston
Best Director
Hector Babenco,
Kiss of the Spider Woman 
Sydney Pollack,
Out of Africa 
John Huston,
Prizzis Honor 
Akira Kurosawa,
Ran 
Peter Weir,
Witness
Should have been nominated
Steven Spielberg,
The Color Purple 
Ron Howard,
Cocoon 
Woody Allen,
Purple Rose of Cairo
My vote
Woody Allen
Who will winJohn Huston
Should have been nominated
Steven Spielberg.
The Color Purple
My vote
Akira Kurosawa
Who will winJohn Huston ______ ..
Left to right: Jack Nicholson (Best Actor), Kathleen Turner, John Huston (Best Direc
tor). and Angelica Huston (Best Supporting Actress), from " Prizzis Honor (Best Picture).
Director Peter \\ eir (Best Director), right, explains a scene to Harrison Ford (Best 
Actor), second on left, and the rest of the cast of "Witness* (Best Picture).
W hoopi Goldberg (Best Actress) gets a few pointers from Steven Speilberg.
James Garner (Best Actor) gets cozy with co-star Sally Field.For more photos turn to page 13

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanMarch 11, 1986
Rich Hall loses luggage9 but not his sense of humor
Rich Hall performing on Tuesday despite the efforts of US Air.
By AMANDA COHEN
Tartan Comedy Critic
The Activities Board Lectures Committee 
hosted comedian Rich Hall at Skibo Hall on 
Tuesday night. The show started promptly at 
eight, and despite late, misleading posters, at
tracted a full house. Rich Hall performed for 
a little over an hour, doing some hilarious standup and answering a few audience questions. 
The show was basically a success.
Sounds standard, doesn't it? Well, dont take 
this show at face value. Most students actually 
thought they were seeing a normal stand-up 
comedian; Rich Hall as an observational" 
comedian who's jokes were about real-life pat
terns. But here's the truth: the most real thing 
he said was that USAir had lost his luggage so 
he couldn't do the show he had planned 
because all of his routines were based on 
specialized props. He had nothing to fall back 
on. Fifteen minutes before the show, in between 
calls to the airlines, he said that he had absolute
ly no idea what he was going to do. Even when 
its free I'm not sure they're going to get they're 
moneys worth." he had commented. So? Rich 
Hall improvised for an hour and ten minutes.
When he has his luggage, Rich Hall is not 
a pure stand-up comedian. Armed with his 
props, he is a very funny and innovative per
former who can dead-pan his way through the 
most brilliant scenes, occasionally to the point 
of appearing entirely indifferent. Late-night afi
cionados will recall strange sketches from cer
tain late-night shows'' which Hall wouldnt even 
bother to list. On Letterman he once played a 
piano concerto on a typewriter. During his oneyear fling with Saturday Night Live he often had 
solo shots, one of the funniest being a bit which 
began, Ever notice that not many comedians 
are using plexiglass in their routines anymore? 
What followed was probably the funniest, if not
the only routine about plexiglass in modern 
comedy.
Rich Hall began his comedy career seven 
years ago on a sidewalk. As a street performer, 
he would heavily involve the audience. I would 
play a movie director who was trying to film his 
last scene. I had run out of money so I needed 
the audience to improvise the scene for a hor
ror movie.' His streets led to New York, and 
he was soon performing at comedy clubs and 
opening for rock bands, which eventually led 
to his job as a writer for David Lettermans 
original morning show in 1981. He also did a 
series of features on a mock travelogue theme 
for the mercifully short-lived Fridays show, 
which was a West Coast version of Saturday 
Night Live. Oddly enough, auditions for the next 
show he worked on, HBOs Not Necessarily 
The News,'' required potential cast members 
to perform rejected Fridays sketches, this 
according to NNTN's anchorperson Danny 
Breen, who visited Carnegie Mellon a few 
months ago. That show was the birth-place of 
Sniglets, and Hall has released two books of the 
neglected words so far. After that came Satur
day Night Live and various appearances with 
his old pal Letterman. He now does both televi
sion and live shows based on his props, which 
remained seriously lost throughout Tuesdays 
show.
He was very straightforward with the au
dience, being his apparently melancholy self 
because not even USAir could lose that for him. 
He told the audience straight away that he had 
lost his luggage, and went immediately into a 
talk which illustrated humor in everyday situa
tions, like getting something to eat in the mid
dle of the night; Neopolitan ice cream....one 
flavor mysteriously missing. Since he was im
provising all the way through, he could hardly 
help but find a natural pattern as he described 
late-night restaurants, driving, sports, licence
plates, and robberies in the forms of descrip
tions and basic observations, as in How would 
you feel being to guy in jail making those New 
Hampshire licence plates that say Live Free 
Or Die? . The closest routine to his usual style 
was when he walked over to the curtains behind 
him and started playing with the spotlight; a little 
classic he worked out with AB Tech just before 
the show.
Rich Hall talked freely with the audience, 
named an Audience President, played with so
meones doll, and even invited suggestions for 
sniglets. Carnegie Mellons contribution to the 
growing list of words which dont exist but 
should included oreodd, which was defined 
as being the rare oreo with one side inverted 
so the flat side is facing out. Hall also took ques
tions from the audience. Only some of his
answers had to be funny, because the audience 
was really interested. There was very little he 
could do to fail, because he had earned the au
diences trust before he even got onstage.
The comedians current projects, along with 
this series of live shows at campuses and 
theatres, are a book and a cable production, 
both called Vanishing America. They are  
travelogue that follows a poor soul who travels 
the back roads of America, writing columns for 
newspapers which all happen to close down 
before his articles are published. The cable ver
sion will appear on Showtime on April 25th.
When asked what he thought of the recent 
turn of Saturday Night Live, he said that he had 
not had a chance to see it, and had also been 
advised not to put too much effort into trying 
continued on page 21
ATTENTION 
CMU
Its time for buggy once aaain!
Spring free rolls will be neld 
on the following Saturdays & 
Sundays from 6 am9 am:
March 1, 2, 8, 9, 15, 16, 22, 30 
April 5, 6, 12, 13
As in previous years, they will 
run through Schenley Park on 
Tech and Frew Streets. For fur
ther information, call Anne 
Witchner at 268-2107.
Pennsylvania Governors School 
for the Sciences
at Carnegie Mellon University 
Mellon College of Science
Undergraduate summer employment will be available with 
the Pennsylvania Governor's School of the Sciences. The 
PGSS is a five week summer school for very talented high 
school students from Pennsylvania. Teaching Assis
tant/Counselor appointments will be available for biology, 
chemistry, and physics laboratories as well as tutorial duties 
in computer science and mathematics.
Preference will be given to scholastically sound applicants. 
You will be expected to simultaneously serve as dormitory 
counselors and to live in the same dormitory as the PGSS 
students, see that PGSS disciplinary rules are adhered to. 
provide tutorial help in the academic program, and social 
activities.
Stipend for five and one-half week period: S1000-S1400. 
(Depending on experience)
F ree room and board
School in session from June 29th to August 2th 
Applications for an interview available in the office of the 
Pennsylvania Governor's School for the Sciences.
DH 2201. For further information, contact Professor 
Caretto. \6669.
Application Deadline: March 14. 1986.


---------------------------------------------------

Hewlett Gallery
By MARIA C. ROZEWSKI
Special to The Tartan
Carnegie Mellon Universitys Hewlett Gallery 
features an on-site installation by Winifred Lutz, 
through March 26. The installation abstractly 
reflects the interior structure of the Fine Arts 
building. The magnificent columns that 
characterize the High Renaissance, are 
represented in Lutz's creation in the form of two 
rows of translucent paper columns. The col
umns dangle from the ceiling, and are il
luminated from within by light that gives a feel
ing of weightlessness, yet are so large that they 
have a greatness of their own. Between the 
two columns there is a rectangle formed with 
white bricks and coal. The contrast is most strik
ing. The black coal that was used for the base 
industrialization in contrast with the uplifting 
quality of the pure white columns is a 
remarkable perception of the building. There 
are two focal points. One is in the form of a 
small circle of brick and slag. The other is near 
the entrance in the form of a slag dome on the 
floor, and an enormous translucent cone hang
ing from the ceiling. They do not touch, but are 
close enough to have tension. It is a show to 
be seen.
The Hewlett Gallery is on the first floor of the 
College of Fine Arts building. Hours are 11 
a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday to Friday; noon to 4 
p.m. Saturday; and 1 to 4 p.m. Sunday. For 
more information on the show, call 268-3110.
CORRECTION
In last weeks article, on Michel Keaton and 
Ron Howard, Keaton was quoted:
When I did Night Shift, Ron gave a lot of 
room to improve and be .spontaneous.
It should have read:
When I did Night Shift, Ron gave me a lot 
of room to improvise and be spontaneous.
.March 11, 1986The TartanPage 13
* wTk*nW1* party
NEGIE
Come Celebrate
Andys 150th Birthday 
The Talent of Carnegie Mellon Students and Alumni
Andy Williams Jerry Lewis 
Rene Auberjonois Steven Bochco 
Barbara Bosson 
Linda Braun 
Lee Cass 
Rege Cordic 
Diana DiMarzio 
Barbara Feldon Robert Foxworth 
Diane Fratantoni 
Charles Haid 
Nancy Marchand 
James McIntosh 
Guy Russo 
Maggie Stewart
Plus
Students
Scott Adler 
Kevin Charbonneau Shelley Dawson 
Gary Lindemann 
Lisa Peters 
Eric Ruffin 
Rob Woronoff
Plus
Carnegie Mellon Symphony Orchestra Cameron Choir 
Chamber Choir 
Cheerleaders
Drama Department Dance Ensemble Jazz Choir 
Kiltie Band
Kiltie Band Dance Line, Majorettes 
Plus
MacDonald Pipe Band
Highland Dancers
George Gee and His Make-BelieveBallroom Orchestra
Randy Purcell Orchestra
Don Ameche (Best Supporting Actor) with Gwen Verdon 
in Cocoon.
Mer\l Streep (Best Actress) and Klaus Maria Brandauer
(Best Supporting Actor) in Out of Africa (Best Picture).
Sydney Pollack (Best Director) contemplates a scene 
from Out of Africa" (Best Picture).
Jessica Lange (Best Actress) as Patsy Cline in "Sweet 
Dreams"
Students, staff, faculty with Carnegie Mellon IDs are entitled to two free tickets. Student tickets are available at the Skibo Information Desk. Staff and faculty may obtain tickets by calling 8893 in the University Relations Office

---------------------------------------------------

Open Five Days A Week
Scoticatici
Yard
 - WEP-NESPAY ITHLrR50AYFRIDAYSATURDAY
More-'-14 lo
'fC&oitC 4ftw<k\
TV.
Tar tnSfu |l>=*
t^K
^ eV"V
t| iech -2Ani~]

rfTovi*: filo
fo-tLlCLOSED
I
scoti^w needs committee members
and designers. Call X4965.
Having a meeting? Birthday?
Call X4965 for our specials.
Were not as crowded 
as you think! 
After Break: A New Menu?
i

---------------------------------------------------

.March 11, 1986The TartanPage 15
Tartan DH2210 Reviewers
Forbes Gallery:
Paintings, collages, and prints
Thursday
BREATHLESS
Richard Gere stars in this adaption of Jean-Luc 
Goddard s Breathless. Gere plays a hustler who 
has to get out of Las Vegas in a hurry, is chas
ed by a highway patrolman, and is forced to 
kill him. On the run, Gere teams up with a 
French student played by Valerie Kaprisky who 
slowly becomes aware that her lover is the sub
ject of a statewide manhunt. Geres character 
is interesting, but unlikable. He is so obnoxious, 
conceited and dumb that the audience never 
really cares about him. Despite this fact, 
Breathless is a stylish film and sometimes fun 
to watch. Directed by Jim McBride
TARTAN MOVIE GRADE 3.25
Friday
FLETCH
Chevy Chase stars as I.M. Fletcher the hero of 
Gregory McDonalds best sellers. Fletch is an 
investigative reporter for a Los Angeles 
newspaper. While undercover at the beach, in
vestigating local drug traffic, Fletch is approach
ed by Tim Matheson (Animal House) with a sim
ple proposition, Matheson wants Fletch to kill 
him. Matheson, it seems, is dying of cancer and 
wants to go out with a bang so his family can 
collect on larger insurance benefits. Fletch 
doesnt buy it, but he pretends to accept the job 
while conducting his own investigation. In the 
mean time, Fletch uses many hilarious disguises 
to uncover Mathesons real motives, not to men
tion police corruption and a major drug sup
plier. Chase is fantastic as Fletch as are all of 
the interesting characters in this film which also 
stars Joe Don Baker. Directed by Michael 
Ritchie.
TARTAN MOVIE GRADE 4.00
Saturday
YEAR OF THE DRAGON
Michael Cimino (Heaven's Gate) returns from 
his previous box office disaster with a fascinating 
film about the Chinese mob operating in 
Chinatown in New York City. Mickey Rourke 
(Pope of Greenwich Village) plays Stanley White, 
a NY cop who butts heads with a local crime 
boss plaved bv John Lone. All that White wants 
is to do his job but, unfortunately for him, Lone 
has manv friends in high (and low) places. His 
investigation is obstructed by his own depart
ment and by Lones own hit men. But W hite 
is tough. Helped by a local reporter. hite slow
ly chips away at the crime structure that Lone 
has created for himself. The film is graphic and 
violent but the story is filled with tension and 
action.
TARTAN MOVIE GRADE 3.75
Sunday
TIME BANDITS
What can you say about a film that boasts 
characters like King Agamemnon, Napolean, six 
dwarfs, a kid and a Supreme Being? You can 
say that it is, at times, hilarious and that it is 
different from most films. The story opens with 
the kid lying in his bed when a horseman gallops
The boy is later introduced to six dwarfs who 
have stolen a map which reveals the locations 
of several holes in timeholes they can use to 
pop in on the adventures of Robin Hood (John 
Cleese) and to sail on the Titanic s maiden 
voyage. The film is visually appealing and often 
funny though it lacks certain qualities that would 
make it a great movie. The first is a sense of 
timing. The action flies at a break neck pace 
and doesnt allow the audience to enjoy choice 
moments. The film is also somewhat repetitive. 
Its just a series of encounters between the 
dwarfs and people from the past without 
anything to tie the scenes together. That aside, 
Time Bandits is a fun film and one worth see
ing. Directed by Terry Gilliam of Monty Python 
with screenplay by Michael Palin and Gilliam.
By KATE BONELLO
Special to The Tartan
Elise Cohen. Betsy Linn, and Jill Ziccardi will 
be showing paintings, collages and prints at the 
Forbes Gallery through Sunday. March 16. The 
exhibit opens tonight at 7 PM.
Elise Cohen's paintings use shapes as com
munication devices. The forms of her work are 
used as personal hieroglyphics, in which visual 
perception gains an added level of meaning. She 
creates a dialogue between the painting and the 
viewer with uncomplicated uses of color and 
drawing which is responsive to the shape and 
form of the canvas. She is also showing collages 
made of paper, acetate, paint, marker 
anything I can get my hands on. The collages 
are composed of more spontaneous marks than 
her paintings, slashes of color as opposed to the 
clean edges of her canvasses.
Betsy Linns paintings are based upon natural 
landscapes. She uses recurring elements of 
circles, arches and vertical lines to set up a 
visual situation and contradict it, contrasting 
geometric and natural forms. Her dictionary 
of marks, as she calls it, forms abstract com
positions which show the landscape in dark 
shades with startling contrasts of bright, full col
ors. She is also showing a collage in black and 
white, with the same elements drawn on paper 
and layered together. The circles of sun and 
knots of wood combined with the vertical 
elements of landscape show the whole of 
nature.
Jill Ziccardi also uses paintings as a glorifica
tion of nature; her work, however is strongly in
fluenced by Matisse and emphasizes plant and 
flow er imagery . She opens up the spaces of her 
canvas with light colors and flowing imagery but 
still retains certain spatial complexities and am
biguities in her compositions. She uses an ex
pressionist style in the surface concerns of the 
thickness of her paint and its shininess, but 
keeps her colors very open and light. Ms. Zic
cardi will also be showing woodcuts using the 
same themes as her paintings.
The public mav view the work of Elise Cohen. 
Betsv Linn and Jill Ziccardi at 5200 Forbes 
Avenue. Gallerv hours are W ednesday through 
Fridav 10 AM - 7 PM and Saturday and Sunday. 12 PM - 5 PM.TARTAN MOVIE GRADE 3.50
PARSONS
SCHOOL OF DESIGN 
Special Summer Programs
PARIS 
WEST AFRICA 
ITALY
LAKE PLACID 
JAPAN 
NEW YORK
International programs offer courses including painting, drawing, fashion, graphic design, photography, decorative arts, architectural history, art history, archaeology, ceramics, fibers and metals. Undergraduate and graduate credit is available to qualified students. For more information, mail the coupon below or call the Office of Special Programs: (212) 741-8975
Parsons School of Design, Office of Special Programs,
66 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10011
Please send me a brochure on Parsons Special Summer Programs
Name ______________________________________________________
Address________________________________________________________________
City _______________________ State ________________ Zip __70A
I am a ? college student ? teacher E other

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanMarch 11, 1986
Pa* te
Search format Font stt|le_____
l m>. f Onci WS. it - Western Theatre np<uqn
utlders remtroduce the primitive"
Jer to rediscover the roots of Western cuit.urai
In me cent 
w-tftr-rc 
genius
idtre looks something like thisShoti* Clipboard
Draw attention to yourself.
Draw a chart. Draw a building. Draw Another example of how Macintosh
a conclusion. helps students work smarter, quicker and
Whatever you need to draw, a Macintosh more creatively. And the beauty of Macintosh 
can help you do it. With programs like is, you dont have to know diddley about
MacDraw MacPaint andMacDraft^you can computers to use one. 
combine text and graphics to illustrate your What does Macintosh draw tn
ideas like theyve never been illustrated before, best? Attention to your work.
 I9KS Apple Gmipuier. Inc Apple, tlie Apple logo. MacDraw and MacPaint are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc MacDraft is a trademark of Innovative Data Design. Inc Macintosh is a trademark of McIntosh laboratory Inc and is being used with its express permission. Microsoft is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.
Goldsmiths classic tale of mistaken identities at PPT
Kate and Marlow embrace in She Stoops to Conquer
Pitts studio theatre
PITTSBURGH, February 28-Ibsenss 
classical tragedy, Hedda Gabler, will be per- , 
formed at the University of Pitts Studio Theatre, 
in the Cathedral of Learning, from March 6 
through March 15. Thursday through Saturday 
at 8 p.m. with one Sunday matinee, March 9 
at 2 p.m.
Ibsens play, set in the Victorian era, focuses 
on Hedda Gabler, a young newlywed who is 
unable to accept her role as wife and soon-tobe mother. Bored by her academic husband 
George, and his over-protective aunt, Hedda 
searches for relieffrom the day to day boredom 
of her life. 
More than a century after the play was writ
ten, there continues to be much debate concer
ning Hedda Gabler. Is she neurotic or perhaps 
just a wee bit psychotic? That is just one of the 
questions which may come to mind as theatre 
goers become absorbed in this intriguing 
production.
According to director Kenyon Barr, Hedda 
Gabler is an enormous play in its scope and 
range. Whether in a rehearsal room with folding 
chairs and fake guns or on the stage, Ibsens 
play ticks on like a time bomb. Barr, an y 
undergraduate student, directed a production 
of Romeo and Juliet with The Three Rivers 
Shakespeare Festival, and co-directed the City 
Theatre's production of Fool for Love.
Victoria Herd, 3rd place winner of the 
coveted Irene Ryan Award for excellence in col
lege theatre, play* the roll of Hedda Gabler. Ms. 
Herd recently appeared in Pitt's award-winning 
production of Cloud 9. She appears with a fine 
cast of characters including David Klein who 
portrays Hedda's husband George Tesman: > 
Joseph Comm as Eilert Loevborg, Hedda s 
former love interest; M. Susan Peck as Aunt 
Julianna; Earl Childs. Jr.. as Judge Brack: 
Kathleen Tessarro as Thea Elvsted; and-Kellc 
\ an Aken as Bertha.
For reservations and ticket information call 
the Stephen Foster Box Office at 624-4101 
Mondav-Sundav 12-6.
By JOE FERRLGIA
Tartan Theatre/Film Critic
The case of mistaken identities is one of 
theatres most widely used concepts. Over the 
centuries, almost everyone from Socrates to 
Dickens has used the idea one time or another. 
Even as we speak, Broadway boasts the pro
ductions ofThe Mystery of Edwin Drood and 
Noises Off (which is currently on a national 
tour). The Pittsburgh Public Theatre is also jum
ping on the bandwagon with its production of 
Oliver Goldsmiths classic, She Stoops to 
Conquer.
The 18th century drama/farce, revolves 
around Kate Hardcastle and her suitor, Marlow. 
Kate is both a charming noblewoman and a 
'lowly4 barmaid to Marlow, which she pur
posefully does to determine Marlows intentions 
and character. Marlow plays the submissive 
suitor to the sophistacated woman of the manor 
and a the suave and debonaire lover to the sim
ple barmaid. Of course, both women are Kate.
She Stoops to Conquer is a fine comedy played 
on several levels. On a simple level, the play 
is about a series of mistaken identities and the 
results of such mistakes. On a high level, this 
is a play about the complications that exists
between two lovers. On a still high, and more 
complex, level She Stoops to Conquer is a play 
of men and women, the roles they play and of 
independence.
She Stoops to Conquer has many noteworthy 
performances. Carmen Mathews is charming 
and elegant as Mrs. Hardcastle, hopelessly 
caught in the middle of several misunderstan
dings. Michel Gill is wonderful as the perplex- 1 
ed and pompous Marlow. Gill has a definite flair 
for comedy. Sarah Rush is excellent as Kate. 
Rush plays Kate with fire and sophistication 
the perfect independent and intelligent 
noblewoman.
The Hardcastle mansion, which serves as the 
manor and the inn, was designed by John 
Jensen and is visually stunning. Philip Moors 
direction is first rate. His direction keeps things 
intersting without getting confusing. And with 
a play that has as many twists and turns in the 
many sub-plots the feat is even more amazing. ^
Oliver Goldsmiths story is as timeless as it 
is funny. This native of Ireland was born in 
1728, and his style reflects the social formality 
and statification present during his 
time.Goldsmith touches upon the sometimes 
funny relationships that exist between men and 
women and allows us to laugh with the 
charaters, at their own complications.
Although the mistaken identity premise is 
highly overworked in theatre, when it is 
presented with such brilliance and charm as She 
Stoops to Conquer it is a shear delight. It is1 
wonderful comedy and fine theatre. Rise to the 
occasion and see it.
She Stoops to Conquer runs through March 30, 
at the Pittsburgh Public Theatre in the Allegheny 
Center on the North Side. For more information 
call 321-9800.
^

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie Mellon University
1986 Summer Session
Tentative Undergraduate and Graduate Courses for Summer Sessions
(1)Offered in the first session
(2)Offered in the second session
(1&2)Course runs through both sessions (14 weeks)
*Graduate course number
Industrial Management
Chemistry09-105Dynamics&Equilibria10 units(1)09-117Organic Chemistry I9 units(1)09-218Organic Chemistry II9 units(2)
Civil Engineering12-110Introductory Engineering Economics9 units(1)12-207Statics9 units(1)12-208Dynamics9 units(2)12-212Solid Mechanics9 units(2)
Computer Science15-111Intro, to Computing B, Section M10 units(1&2)15-113Lisp Mini3 units(2)15-118Intro, to Computing C, Section M10 units(1&2)15-119C Mini3 units(2)
Mathematics21-112Calculus ll(H&SS)10 units(1)21-121Calculus I10 units(1)(2)21-122Calculus and Linear Algebra10 units(1)(2)21-127Discrete Mathematics of Computer Science9 units(1)(2)
21-259Calculus in Three Dimensions9 units(1)(2)21-260Differential Equations9 units(1)(2)21-301Combinatorial Analysis9 units(2)
Mechanical Engineering24-11224-121Fluid Mechanics I 
Thermodynamics I10 units lpnits(1)
Metallurgical Engineering 27-322Process Metallurgy12 units(1&2)and Materials Science27-332Physical Metallurgy II9 units(1&2)27-350Industrial Projects Seminar9 units(1&2)27-390Industrial Internship Option0 units(1&2)27-755*Metallurgical Problemsvar. units(1&2)27-756*Thesisvar. units(1&2)18-236Intro.to Solid State Electronics9 units(1&2)
Physics33-121Physics I: Mechanics (self-paced)10 units(1)(2)33-122Physics II: Heat Waves & Optics (self-paced)10 units(1)(2)
33-123Physics III: Electricity & Magnetism (self-paced)10 units(1)(2)
33-129Electronics I10 units(1)
Statistics36-101Statistical Concepts with Computer Applications
9 units(1)(2)
36-209Probability and Applied Statistics for Management & Social Sciences I
9 units(1&2)
36-210Probability and Applied Statistics for Management & Social Sciences II9 units(1)(2)
36-211Probability and Applied Statistics for Physical Science & Engineering I9 units(1)(2)
36-212Probability and Applied Statistics for Physical Science & Engineering9 units(1)(2)
36-217Probability Theory&Random Process9 units(1&2)36-219Statistical Methods for Data Analysis9 units(1&2)
36-225Intro to Probability&Statistics I9 units(1&2)36-226Intro to Probability&Statistics II9 units(1&2)
36-325Probability&Mathematical Statistics I9 units(1&2)
3-326Probability&Mathematical Statistics II9 units(1&2)
Biomedical Engineering42-500/735*Physiology9 units(2)42-560BME Undergraduate Projects9 units(2)
Architecture42-280Architectural Design Level II12 units(1)
Design51-100Introduction to Design18 units(2)51-200Design18 units(2)51-210Introduction to Photography9 units(1&2)
Art60-117/
317/717*
Drawing9 units(2)
60-224Art and the Computer9 units(2)60-228/328/728*
Painting9 units(2)
60-231/331/731*
Beginning Serigraphy9 units(1)
60-233/
333/733*
Relief9 units(2)
60-345Independent Study: Glass & Light9 units(1)60-361Sculpture9 units(2)
60-380/780*Contemporary Art9 units(2)
60-381Independent Study: Contemporary 
Issues in Art History
9 units(1)
60-390Internship: Gallery Experience9 units(2)
70-101Elements of Industrial Administration9 units0X2)70-121Financial Accounting9 units(1)<2)70-311Organizational Behavior I9 units(2)70-312Organizational Behavior II9 units(2)70-332Government & Business9 units(2)70-361Foundations of Law9 units(2)70-371Production I9 units(1)(2)70-381Marketing I9 units(1)70-391Finance I9 units(1)(2)70-474Human Resources Management9 units(1)
Economics
English
History
Philosophy
Psychology
Social Sciences 
SUPA
73-100Principles of Economics9 units(1)(2)73-250Intermediate Microeconomics9 units0X2)73-300Intermediate Macroeconomics9 units(1X2)73-360Econometrics9 units(1)
76-100Strategies for Writing9 units(1X2)76-101Reading Texts9 units(1X2)76-122Special Topics: Composing with Computers9 units(1)
76-170Advanced Exposition9 units(1&2)76-242Reading Twentieth-Century Culture9 units(2)76-245Shakespeare9 units(1)(2)76-260Survey of Forms: Fiction9 units(1)76-265Survey of Forms: Poetry9 units(2)76-270Writing for the Professions9 units(1X2)76-301Internship0-18 units(1X2)76-371/771*Rhetoric in Social Interaction9 units(1&2)76-421/821*Advanced Seminar: Twentieth Century American Drama9 units(1)
76-422/822*Advanced Seminar: Twentieth Century Fiction9 units(1)
76-424/824*Advanced Seminar: The Short Story9 units(2)76-471Internship in Technical Writing and Editing9 units(1X2)
76-901 *Internship: English3 units(2)
79-220Contemporary America: A History through Film9 units(2)
79-221History of American Urban Life9 units(2)79-356The Second World War9 units(1)79-360Witchcraft and Dissent in Europe9 units(1)
80-211Logic and Computability I9 units(1)
85-101General Psychology9 units(1)85-110Intro to Symbolic Programming (self-paced)9 units(1)
85-112LISP (self-paced)9 units(2)
88-344Law and Economics9 units(1)
90-729*Health Systems Finance12 units(1&2)90-761 *Organizational Management II12 units(1&2)90-762*Strategic Planning Not-for-Profit12 units(1&2)90-764*Economic Principles of Policy Analysis12 units(1&2)
90-778*Personnel Management12 units(1&2)90-779*Strategic Marketing/Communications12 units(1&2)90-789*Financial Analysis for Managers12 units(1&2)90-795*Health Policy6 units(1)90-798*Legal Issues in Health 
Systems Management6 units(2)
Special Programs
European Studies Program:
PARIS, 1986June 4-July 27 GERMANY, 1986-June 9-August 1 MEXICO, 1986June 2-July 25
School of Urban & Public Affairs QSSI/QSSP Workshop June 8 through July 31
Carnegie Mellon University, during the 
summer, 1986, will hold two seven-week 
sessions as follows: 
1st seven-week session 
May 13-June 27
2nd seven-week session 
June 30-August 15
Graduate Tuition*:
$150 per unit* *CFA/H&SS/CIT/MCS/SUPA 
$164 per unit**GSIA
**3 units51 credit 
'subject to change
This is a tentativelist of courses to be 
offered. The actual list of courses including 
class schedules will be announced and 
published depending upon student 
response.
Application materials and further infor
mation will be mailed upon receipt of your 
inquiry.
Please give your tentative reply as soon 
as possible by completing the attached 
form and returning it to:
Director, Summer Studies 
Carnegie Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Phone: (412)268-6620
Carnegie Mellon University
Name
Mailing Address 
Present School
I am interested in the following courses: 
Course No.
Title
Session
Please return this form to: 
Director, Summer Studies 
Carnegie Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
f

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Zurk
ATYPICAL
convRsationJ 
ONE NIGHT 
AT 
'THF
by Nabil Liumang
r NO,NO,
THE BIBLE SAYS &OD CREATED 
EVERYTHING IN SIX VPXS So THAT'S 
WHAT X BELIEVE.
>,NO.T TEU-You IT'S TOTALEVOUUTlOfJ. FIRST CAME THE
LEMMINGS, THEM THERE WAS MAN, 
ANO NOW ITS ME.
Nollem Eigenracby Mike McHugh
The Top Floorby M
Poindexterby Don Beyer
BSAUy KUV fT. N 
THTS mH X y&J&iT My SACtITS 
-----------A. Rot/ J
Doak Stryker and the Alamo Three
NO, JAKE ... DON'T TOUCH
J*E THERE///
by Brownmeister 
and Browneye
0pmThe OfThicc# ot 
VThP hcrfis dchmncmn
V
Public Enemy Number One
by Adam Rosenberg 
and James Kurien
.. .ANp Tw^w,
rftn' uuo&f
-fae ^tre~cFi-rr
rst A AaTVDYS 5*?AT
FCol -A*/ v/V/A'T 
'Tf'U -THKKT 'fc\0 ZTttsl' 7' I 7 
pfAM, IT^
TM&f-frffV, WMA'T' A PuH^A^/
Inkspots by Kurt Shaw
Youre definitely going to have to go on a diet Miss 
Smith. I think you just killed my nurse.
The Digressional
Choice by Seth Eliot
and Mike McHugh

---------------------------------------------------

Fraternities
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ................................................................102
Phi Kappa Theta .......................................................................101
Delta Upsilon .............................................................................100
Sororities
Kappa Alpha Theta ....................................................................96
Kappa Kappa Gamma ...............................................................92
Delta Gamma ..............................................................................90
Theta Xi won the mixed competition.
GREEK SING 1986
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
SAEtakes overall; Kappa Alpha Theta and Theta Xialso win
Totally blowing away any preconceived notion about their house, 
the brothers hit the stage in drag, performing from La Cage Aux 
Folles, wearing more make up than nearly every other group that 
performed. SAEs in body suits and built-up dresses certainly caught 
and held the attention of at least the female part of the audience.
The irony of their ringing male sound emanating from dresses, nylons 
and make up added to their overall spellbinding effect (and yes, they 
did shave their legs!). A nice looking set piece and perhaps something 
of a message, I Am What I Am, rounded out a well-received, 
brilliant performance.
Last Friday night eleven fraternities and five sororities put on three hours of musical entertainmenthaving a lot of fun and raising more money to Bust MS.Sing chairman Scott Adler emceed the show, acknowledging from the start that spirits were high... Siren whistles and fraternity cheers testified to a keyed up atmosphere.
Theta Xi
Theta Xi opened the second half of the show, performing solidly selections from Bye Bye Birdie." Theta Xi brothers, 
pledges and little sisters blended harmonies and acting and put forth a solid effort. The audience reacted especially 
well to Going Steady, and Whats the Matter with Kids These Days..." They exhibited confidence and good use 
of soloists on stage.

---------------------------------------------------

Pi Kappa Alpha
Delta Upsilon
Delta Upsilon performed from Man of Lamancha." Last year's opera would have been hard to 
top. DU performed in front of an imposing physical 
windmill, blades turning. They executed their 
choreography with precision timing and energy, 
showcasing a fine solo amidst solid harmony. The 
high point of their performance was a Latin chant 
sans accompaniment.
Pi Kappa Alpha presented solid selections from 
Oliver!" The tonal quality could have been better, for 
having so many men on the stage, but the costumes and 
choreography made up for it. The brothers looked 
unified, the dances were well executed, kazoos and heelclicks being the highlights of their performance. During 
the march scenes Pika was able to march several men 
across a stage without sounding like a buffalo herd.
Phi Kappa Theta
Phi Kappa Theta effectively used scenery and props in their presentation of Fiddler on the Koof.* I heir costumes seemed accurate, 
their voices united and strong. They, like the Theta Xi's, made good use of stage space. Highlights of Phi Kap's performance include 
five Ruskv dancers crossing the stage, beautifully executing a difficult dance. The effort that Phi Kap put into preparation for Sing certainly 
showed.

---------------------------------------------------

Alpha Tau Omega, known and expected for off col
or Greek Sing performances almost failed to meet their 
rep. The Duck chorus actually showed forethought and 
humor. ATOs in pink underwear crawling across a stage 
trying to tell us that this year were going for a class 
act... almost worked. Bearded ATO brothers with big
 ... chests were really funny, as were the SAE parodies. 
Even the frozen vegetables all over the stage were 
forgivable because the whole audience was laughing. But 
then, ATO made a big mistake, losing the audience who 
seconds before had been on their side. A brother came 
to the microphones late into their performance, declar
ing ATO the winners of the 1986 Greek Sing competi
tion. Silence. The audience was no longer amused. The 
vegetables littering the stage turned into something the 
crowd could pick on.
Rappin' Zoo, with the brothers of Sigma Nu in typical dress fronted by three forms of percussion, 
a synthesizer, and a rap man. Highlights of their performance were bowling shoes, and a boogiecreature with a rather large ugliness on his head.
Alpha Tau Omega
Kappa Alpha Theta
Sigma Nu
Kappa Alpha Theta entertained from 
West Side Story. Costuming and use of 
stage were particularly good, but I felt there 
should have been a stronger sound for the 
number of women on stage. Kappa Alpha 
Theta did convey a mood with their vocals, 
lighting, and dancing.
Delta Delta Delta
Finally, Delta Delta Delta unveiled a stunn
ing adaptation of HAIR. Their accompany
ing band was tight, believable, helpful in set
ting the HAIR mood. Using flashlights as their 
only lighting for their first two songs, they stunn
ed and captivated the audience. Solo vocal per
formances were truly impressive, but in the 
^ whole-group segments of song I felt a weakness 
around what I felt should have been crescen
dos. The choreography wasnt as vibrant as the 
day glo costumes, not as engaging as the open
ing scene. The Tri-Delts gave Sing 86 a true 
American flag finale, raising our nations colors 
and singing Let the sun shine in.

---------------------------------------------------

Kappa Kappa Gamma
Kappa Kappa Gamma entertained with selec
tions from Sophisticated Ladies. Accom
panied by a cellist, the Kappas put in a tight 
but uneventful performance. The dancers danc
ed in unison, executing choreography with 
precision. Vocals were a little weak, but the 
words were clear.
Delta Tau Delta
Preceded by a reputation for not taking Greek Sing as 
seriously as. say. Delta Upsilon does, the Delts surpris
ed and entertained with stinging, well-put together satire. 
Welcome to the Hotel Morewood Gardens, such a lovely 
place, wheres my parking space?to the tune of Hotel 
California. The musicians showed talent as well as the 
performers on stage. Little sisters contributed to a saga 
of Hacker Lovin'  lamenting the demise of their love 
life when the TOPS system crashes. The Delts also pok
ed at the people on Devon road, bemoaning the day 
the music died... " to the familiar American Pie.
A ten minute delay ensued from ATOs act becauses of the lack 
of readily available brooms. W hen the necessary implements ar
rived, the ATOs were a little immature about sweeping up, so 
Scott Adler, wearing a tuxedo, and the AB Tech folks on hand 
cleaned up. I did notice two ATO brothers seriously sweeping at 
intermission, to their credit.
Chi Omega closed the first half of Sing 86 with selections from everybody s 
favorite musical. Mary Poppins."" Without having a lot of people on stage. Chi
0 entertained vocally and visually, with dashes of color in their costumes and 
choreography. Chi Omega's diction was clear, choreography succinct. They ran 
into a little trouble vocally, but on the whole gave a very solid performance.
Chi Omega

---------------------------------------------------

Photos by Andy Gillespie, Olve Peersen & Jack L. Poller. Text by Helene Newberg.
___________________________________________J
Kappa Sigma
Kappa Sigma presented heartwormy selections from The Sound of Music. Costuming showed ef
fort and thought, with several Kappa Sigs dressed as nuns and as children-wearing-beanies. Their per
formance entertained the masses, augmenting the perennial Doe A Deer song with such items as 
a brother sporting antlers (Doe) a person-sized needle w/thread. Mr. T. and a segment from Vangelis' 
soundtrack to Chariots of Fire (FA. a long distance to run...) And if the audience hadnt had enough, 
thev got to follow the bouncing orange dot across the words to Adelweiss.
Delta Gamma
Pi Lamda Phi
As in past years. Pi Lambda Phi's selections, at least the words, were 
original. Two groups formed the basis of PiLam's showone group obviously 
CFA, longing for New York, and the other obviously Geek, Born in the 
UCC. To the second group, Life would be such a bore without the com
puter store... From Springsteen, they went on to Simon and Garfunkel, 
using the immortal Sounds of Silence to express their disgust at the Devon 
Road inhabitants causing parties to be shoved indoors. From there, the 
PiLams just couldnt wait to get on prob" again...," exhibiting a wide 
musical range.
Delta Gamma eased on down their 
presentation from The Wiz. Their 
costumes were visual, colorful, as was 
their set. Their choice of songs and 
transitions allowed for a bit of 
suspense and anticipation in the au
dience. Overall the dancing and sing
ing went smoothly, with small pro
blems blending vocally.
Beta, who, a long time ago, used to perform in Sing wearing tuxedos that each brother own
ed, wasnt much for choreography, or requests, mistaking Moon River for the Monkees 
theme, but looked good in sunglasses and jackets.

---------------------------------------------------

So far, CMU has raised 
about $20,000 for MS
We want our MTV!
The 
Miracle 
Mile
Rona Hubenstein displays her Franco Harris autograph.
Franco Harris poses with a $200 
donator.
Tri-Delts are all smiles as they count quarters.
They totaled about $4500 when it was aH over.
Photos by Olve Peersen

---------------------------------------------------

The brothers of Alpha Tau Omega 
fraternity would like to apologize 
for our conduct at the conclusion of 
our performance at Greek Sing. We 
attempted to clean the stage after 
we had left it in such poor condi
tion, but the necessary equipment 
such as brooms and mops were not 
available. We felt our perfoimance 
was in good taste and very enter
taining. Once again we apologize 
for our actions at the end of the 
show and hopefully this type of in
cident will not occur in the future.
The Brothers of Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity.
YOUNG 
FRANKENSTEIN
Monday, March 17, 1986 
DH 2210 6,8 & 10
sponsored by Student Activities/ 
CMU Libraries

---------------------------------------------------

Digital Vax Stations at 50%
Off
through the CMU computer Store
Carnegie Mellon University has been allocated 150 
VSII's at 50% Discount Price.
To be ordered by March 31,1986, with delivery by June 
30, 1986. 
There are 3 basic workstation configurations offered 
in the program. 
All additional equipment orderes (for example: addi
tional memory software) must be ordered using 
Digital's standard terms and conditions. 
Note: this program presents an excellent opportunity 
to take advantage of the memory volume price reduc
tions announced in September on the 4mb memory 
boards.
Pedestal Configuration I
Order Number: SV-LV52A-EK/EN
BA23 Box (8-slot backplane)
uVAX II CPU, FPU, on-board IM memory
1M additional memory
RD52 31MB Hard Disk
RX50 Floppy Disk
VCB01 Grpahics Subsystem
DEQNA Ethernet Interface
VR260 19-inch Monochrome Monitor
LK201 Standard Keyboard
VAXstation 3-button mouse
MicroVMS Software License 
MicroVMS Workstation software license 
GKS-OB software license
$13,913
Pedestal Confguration II
Order Number: SV-LC55A-EK/EN
BA23 Box (8-slot backplane)
uVAX II CPU, FPU, on-board 1M memory
1M additional memory
RD53 71MB Hard Disk
TK50 Tape Streamer
VCB01 Graphics Subsystem
DEQNA Ethernet Interface
VR260 19-inch Monochrome Monitor
LK201 Standard Keyboard
VAXstation 3-button mouse
MicroVMS Software License 
MicroVMS Workstaion software license 
GKS-OB software license
$15,560
World Box Configuration
Order Number: SV-LV55B-EK/EN
BA123 World Box (12-slot backplane)
uVAX II CPU, FPU, on-board 1M memory
2M additional memory
RD53 71MB Hard Disk
TK50 Tape Streamer
RX50 Floppy Disk
VCB01 Graphics Subsystem
DEQNA Ethernet Interface
VR260 19-inch Monochrome Monitor
LK201 Standard Keyboard
VAXstation 3-button mouse
MicroVMS Software License 
MicroVMS Workstaion software license 
GKS-OB software license
$19,365
A limited number of Vax I Stations at $5500 each 
See Bill Driver at the Computer Store.
dig

---------------------------------------------------

like Biscayne
by Adam Rosenberg
BLOOM COUNTYStudent Dormitory Councilby Berke Breathed
March 11, 1986The TartanPage 19
zseep/x 1 QT. SOUR CREAM 1 T5F SAUERKRAUTy* cup awes.
STIR ANP SPRINKLE 
WITH ACON PITS.
"V
wm*
?
tefe.:
\W
\>\V \^v
IV UK EW&ONE TO KNOW m Tm looking for m mtcms
IN MY UFE/ I'M POU0TING MY OLV VALUES ANP REASSEMNh MY m fiCCOMPLMBNTS... ANP FRAKLY, If* bTWG f\
uie messe? fdo(/r 
mb//
w
ANP WHAT /IW/i
mpu m this mmss 
TAC^, CfVtm?EARLY ^ rytii/f
KW /MR. WOeV. i 7
11 UK IT!
Ito IN f\ tot? MOO?/ A MP, (/UV, STINKY
mp mi pour 
mcH me mtr/
vA
mm, mpium...Ger TO IT/ 0/gK M /P/ 
(fftfTNOW/CmRMUP
'fc so \' tue, mme
\, MFmPHir 
i '~ eiserne!
1.
mMOUTH.
a
A^Si
lr
by Nabil Liumang
//V flF 0NC6 A6A/N SfTTlNG
egstemtn yo fngemtnmgrqALLOW ME 70 OFFER THE FOLLOWING GESTURE AS A TOKEN OF MY AFFECTION...
IV UKE TO APOLOGIZE FOR MY BEHAVIOUR YESTERPAY. I WAS A FOUL-m/WEP POUARP ANP SHOULP BE PUTIFULLY KC6L' 
,/^c HMLP FOR IT.
50 WHAT'5 Apm? euim mm*600P FRieNPe ?
00!..AH' ves...A little LOWER, MYpove...00' WHAT' WHAT'S WAT, MY LITTLE OO MOCITOS ?.. WHY NO... NO, 1 PONT THINK A QUICK FOOT MASSAG WOULP HURT YOUR JOURNALISTIC CWWUTY, M/55 
Zz, s^i SAWYER...
WAS 1 TALKING OUT LOUP AGAIN?' WHfiTV YOU HEAR NAMES ?.. PETAILS ? MAT"UHftT YOU PIP PlPNr YOU ?"
EVERY ZA.N.
THE FIRE AlARfAcome ALONG,MYurriebooeoocrm.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanMarch 11, 1986
Verdi s Requiem brilliantly playedby the PSO
Guest-Conductor Zdenek Macai
by STEFAN BROWN
Tartan Symphony Critic
Mv first acquaintance with the Verdi Requiem 
came eight years ago when my parents took me 
to Scranton to hear a performance by the North
eastern Pennsylvania Philharmonic. I went ex
pecting a religious experience. 1 was dis
appointed. Years later I attended a second per
formance at which I approached the work as 
theater. I was again disappointed. During the 
intermission of this last weekends performances 
by the Pittsburgh Symphony I spoke to a dear 
friend of mine in reguards to this problem. She 
gave me her last word on the mass: It's an 
opera and nothing else." Well I didnt accept 
this totally and attempted to synthesize these 
two aspects, and found that this approach is the 
best way to develope a fuller appreciation for 
the piece.
Verdi is of course famous as an opera com
poser and this requiem has its roots in the 
theater. Verdi conceived the idea of writing a 
requiem after the death of Gioacchino Rossini 
in 1868. The idea was to have a different Italian 
opera composer be responsible for each sec
tion of the mass. Verdi wrote his section, 
Libera me" (Deliver me) but the Rossini Mass 
was abandoned because of the extreme pet
tiness of some of the project's key figures. In 
1872. twelve days after the death of Alessan
dro Manzoni. Italy's national hero/poet. Verdi 
was prompted to finish the entire work having 
begun, as it were, at the end. Verdi was an in
spirational and spontaneous composer. He was 
prompted to write by his emotions and not sheer 
intellectual calculation. It was second nature for 
him to respond to the theatricality of the Masss 
text. The music he wrote accurately reflects the 
words of the text while still maintaining an air 
of religious devotion from the frenzy of the Dies 
Irae to the pleading of the Agnus Dei.
Verdi also drew upon a marvelous mixture 
of old and new compositional forms. There are 
arias, ensembles, and choruses in the traditional 
nineteenth century sense. But in several sec
tions the acappella chant is used (namely in 
parts I. V. and VII) while the sixth section is 
a fugue for two choirs.
Verdi uses themes developed in the Libera 
Me (the last section of the mass but the first 
to be composed) to unify the nearly two hours 
of music. The famous Dies Irae" theme oc
curs throughout the work. It serves as a home 
base at which the listener can establish himself
while listening to other far-flung sections of the 
piece. It also serves to tie the requiem together 
thematically. He also uses the same downward 
figure in the first and last sections. This serves 
the function of tying the work together.
Zdenek Macal conducted a performance that 
was first rate even though there were a few 
rough edges. His experience as an opera con
ductor in Czechoslovakia and elsewhere gives 
him insight into the operatic nature of the piece. 
He was particularly effective in his attention to 
phrasing and controlling the balances between 
all the performers. As a choral conductor his 
skill is consummate. In the opening section of 
the piece, Requiem" (Eternal rest grant unto 
them), the attacks of phrasing and endings 
were right in time with his conducting. Except 
for a minor glitch in the Sanctus the balances 
between the sections of the chorus and between 
chorus and orchestra could not be improved.
Macals most successful accomplishment was 
making the nine sections of the forty-five minute 
Dies Irae" (Day of Wrath) gel into a seamless 
piece. So many times this is performed as nine 
separate pieces without a sense of continuity 
built here with each section leading naturally 
into the next.
The orchestra's quality of playing was much 
improved over that exhibited at last week's con
certs. This can be credited to the effective con
ducting of Macal. Except for a lackluster accom
paniment in the Qui Marim Absolvisti" the or
chestra performed with the skill necessary' to 
express the requiem's range of emotions. The 
performance of the octave passages for the 
strings in the Agnus Dei" deserves special 
mention. This movement is also one big 
crescendo and the orchestra, as well as soloists 
and chorus, never lost the thread of continual 
progression.
The Mendelssohn Choir sang with sensitivity 
to the text and music and followed Macals 
leadership to the letter. Balance was maintained 
within the voices of the chorus and only on one 
occasion was an individual voice heard. The 
chorus produced clear attacks in the a cappella 
sections. The Dies Irae" theme was filled with 
the necessary frenzy without becoming uncon
trolled. Their main shortcoming was in the 
Sanctus"their big aria as it were. This fuge 
for double chorus is the least inspired section 
of the mass and is therefore fortunately very 
short. Here there were many problems in 
balance: between the male and female voices
and between the chorus and orchestra. Phrasings and attacks sounded muddled.
Carmen Lavani performed with a soprano that 
was so strong in the beginning that it sometimes 
obscured the other soloists in the ensemble sec
tions. The voice seemed spent and forced dur
ing the last section. Unfortunately this section, 
the Libera Me," is her big aria. The music 
and text demand a w ide range of vocal color 
and texture. It is important that the voice be 
in top form here as the entire mass has been 
directed thematically to this end. While a weak 
Libera Me" will not destroy the entire perfor
mance it will leave a gap causing dissatisfaction 
and creating a lack of natural conclusion. The 
chant of the first two fines started offtime and 
the later octave jumps were forced. Despite 
these shortcomings Lavani did create the ten
sion and fear of the day of judgment and 
wrath" through effective use of voical color. Her 
ensemble singing exhibited good technique and 
she was able to follow the conductor in 
establishing the proper balances.
Janice Taylor has a darkly shaded mezzo and 
she used it effectively. It the Liber Scriptus
Progereter" (the book of consciences) section 
of the Dies Irae" she controlled the line and 
created an aura of suspense. Her tone and 
phrasing were even and consistent throughout 
Vocal leads were performed effortlessly. Taylor 
performed with an instrument of which she has 
total control.
In the duet sections with the soprano there 
was much to be desired. Granted, it is next to 
impossible to find a soprano and a mezzo whose 
voices can blend totally. But to a point, techni
que can take care of major difficulties. Such was 
not the case at these performances. In the 
Agnus Dei' where the singing is started with 
octaves acapplla they utilized different attacks 
and phrasing techniques. Some phrases werf^, 
begun and ended at different times.
Of the four soloists, Seth McCoy has the 
weakest voice in terms of projection. This was 
also true in the 1983 performances of Elijah. 
He was often drowned out in the ensemble sec
tions even when the others were singing softly. 
This created a hole in the ensemble structure. 
Even so, he has a solid technique and his phrascontinued on page 21
The modular NCR PC6. 
Make of it what you will.
Introducing the new NCR PC6: .m The PC6 also features: eight comthe first highly-advanced personal patible expansion slots, serial and parallel
computer thats as versatile as you are.^^EyMM^^ interfaces, expandable memory to 
The PC6s modular design 640KB on the main board. And,
means that it can grow in any an extremely affordable price,
direction your business grows.w Whether you need 
From two floppy drives all HHH ft a powerful second PC or a
the way up to one floppy, two first you can grow on, the
hard disk drives and stream- aSIjvtOT NCR PC6 is the perfect
The PC6 is PC/XT- But after all, thats exactly
compatible, so you can run ^a# what youd expect from NCR.
double processing speed ^ ~ v
with the Hip of a switch. -flR. '
NCR
COMPUTER
SOURCE
INC.
STUDENT & FACULTY DISCOUNTS TO 35
3766 Wm. Penn Hwy. 
Monroeville, PA 15146 
(412) 856-1400
DEMO STUDIO
Quality Recording You Can Afford
JACK IRWIN
1052 Franklin Drive 
Bethel Park, PA 15102 
(412) 835-6398
FIRST TRINITY LUTI 1ERAN Cl II RCH 
(Missouri Synod)
331 North Nevil Street. Oakland 
(within walking distance of campus)
ADULT BIBLE CLASS: 9:45 AM 
W< >RSIIIP SERVICE: 11:00 AM 
SUNDAY EVENING FELLOWS! Ill: 7:3(1 
PM at parsonage. 535 N. Neville
Pastor Robert Hader 683-4--40

---------------------------------------------------

.March 11, 1986The TartanPage 21
SINGLES
By The Syndicate
Tartan Record Critics
The Rolling Stones 
Harlem Shuffle : CBS
The Rolling Stones have just returned from 
their gig at the Kool Kat Club with their most 
recently released single, Harlem Shuffle. Providing rock'n'roll lovers with their first taste of 
the band's newest album. Dirty Work, the song 
is further testimony that the last of the 
supergroups lives on.
Like all Stones' songs, Harlem Shuffle con
tains Mick Jaggers relentless and energetic 
vocals juxtaposed with the group's unique 
touchthis combination has been the key to the 
bands survival over the last two decades.
Harlem Shuffle also exhibits a highlv refin
ed jazz element. However, it could be improv
ed with the addition of a saxaphone and some 
brass, especially during the instrumental 
portions.
Complementing this touch of jazz is the cover. 
It is a colorful collection of cartoon characters 
shuffling about to the music of the cats (literal
ly) in the Kool Kat Club. ' Thus, Harlem 
Shuffle exhibits the Rolling Stones' older traits 
and their newer ones, and adds a new dimen
sion to the groups music.
JAY SHRAGER
Goon Squad 
Powerdrill : Epic
Put on Goon Squads Powerdrill and it will 
melt away the past four months of cold weather 
and turn you into a funk addict. With vocals 
similar to Annie Lennoxhigh pitched and 
sweet. Their electronic percussion, unlike most 
af the funk dance tunes today is varied and ex
iting. This is fun music. Electric and complete
ly up.
Fishbone
Party at Ground ZeroCBS
Fishbones EP Party at Ground Zero is 
playful upbeat music which combines ska and 
English pop to make a unique sound. The title 
song Party at Ground Zero is a mildly 
political song with the lyrics going virtually un
noticed due to whimsical touches such as Porky 
Pig lisping raps and crude drum solos. Shakin* 
to the beat, the flip side to the E.P., is a fast 
paced song take the frequent solos from Par
ty at Ground Zero and replacing them with a 
bit more of a reggae sound. The vocals tinge 
on hysteria and high strung intensity.
Davina
Rock. Shake, Roll : CBS
Davina's extended dance mix Rock, Shake, 
roll is similar to so many things youve heard 
in the past two years. Its about those all so 
familiar thingsdancing, night clubssame old 
stuff. Her voice, little gasps and hiccups assures 
us of what her favorite pastime is. Dancing, 
of course! \ot much to get excited about in this 
mix. It s all there, the steady beat, the token 
keyboard solo, and it doesn't break new ground 
in the wide, wide world of Disco.
SHAWN LEWIS
PREGNANT?
And you didn't mean to be? 
For a tree pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 741-3491.
Old style jazz by Joe Williams
By BRLCE KASREL
Tartan Entertainment Editor
One of the last of the old time jazz singers, 
Joe Williams, came to Pittsburgh last week, but 
hardly anyone noticed. His many years as Count 
Basies vocalist, a grammy award last year, and 
a guest spot on the Cosby Show all make Joe 
Williams one of todays premiere jazz artists. 
And if he had been performing in any other 
town, the place would have been packed (even 
though it was a Tuesday night). But the paltry 
dozen or so people in Harpers in Oxford Cen
tre, proves that jazz is thought of as a four let
ter word in the Steel City.
Before Williams took the stage, his musical ac
companists, The Norman Simmons Quartet did 
a solo number. With Simmons on piano, Bob 
Batchly on upright bass, Henry Johnson on 
guitar, and Gerryck King on drums the band 
had a good opportunity to show their stuff. All 
were great, but I must note Kings brilliant and 
humorous drum soloit is very rare that you
continued from page 20
hear such childlike ethusiasm played so profes
sionally.
Opening with a tribute to the late Eubee 
Blake, Williams set a melancholy tone from 
which he rarely drifted. In Dollar for a Dime 
and Memories of You, Williams belted out 
the sad lyrics with the smooth and emotional 
style that he is famous for. His voice is deep 
and velvety, so soft and controlled, that it just 
glides along.
Before Williams could introduce his next 
number, a member of the audience requested 
Take the A-train, a real surprise since there 
are no lyrics to this classic. Williams brilliantly 
layered the lyrics to I got it bad, and that aint 
good" over Simmons crawl-paced version of the 
Ellington standard. The result was amazing. 
They sounded perfect together and the number 
was one of the high points of the evening.
Picking up the tempo with Satin Doll and 
Who she do, provided a more difficult 
challenge to his voice. He was not afraid to test
the upper portion of his range and it is obvious 
why. Even in the higher registers, Williams 
voice exudes a subtle charm about it that feels 
right.
Backing Williams, the quartet played with a 
little too much hesitation and control. With the 
exception of a few fancy George Benson-ish 
guitar licks from Henry Johnson, the bad did 
ver little out of the ordinary. After a few upbeat 
tunes and some blues numbers, Wiliams clos
ed the one hour show with Its Wonderful." 
a favorite of mine. The songs catchy lyrics and 
gentle rifts go hand-in-hand with Williams flow
ing vocals.
The evening was one filled with great jazz and 
humorous stories form Williams. When such en
joyable music is presented in as nice a club as 
Harpers (it is the nicest jazz club I have ever 
visited) it is hard to believe that only a handful 
of people took notice. Once people realize what 
a jazz treasure chest we have here, maybe Pitt
sburgh will achieve the cultural standing that 
it longs for.
Pittsburgh Symphony and the Mendelssohn Choir
ing was on the spot. In his big aria Qui Mariam 
Absolvisti (You who did Marys guilt unbind) 
he exhibited control over the line and sang with 
a tone that was balanced across the section. His 
phrasing was carefully executed. His weakness 
lies in the upper range where the voice becomes 
forced and thin and uneven.
The bass of John Cheek was even across the 
entire range. It never became thin or forced and
the lowest notes were produced with an attack 
that kept them from becoming a non-descript 
rumble. He provided a sure and level bass for 
the ensemble sections. Cheek can act with his 
voice. The repetition of the word mors (death) 
became more menacing and chilling with each 
new prononciation. In the Confutatis Maledictis (when the doomed no more can flee) he 
maintained the evenness of the vocal line while
communicating the horror and misery 
associated with that day.
The four soloists worked well as individuals 
but as ensemble they did not always come 
together. In the Domine Jesu Christe they 
were not so much a group as they were four 
separate singers. Vibratos were uneven between 
singers and this created an unorganized effect 
in this structurely pivital section.
continued from page 12
Rich Hall: more than sniglets
to do so. He was not the first to say that one 
of the shows major downfalls is that fact that 
virtually none of the cast members are writing. 
Of working on the show himself. Hall said that 
The stuff was under-rehearsed, but thats kind 
of fun too, because you dont know what youre 
gonna get till you do it. Hall now writes all of 
his own material, which not only gives him total 
creative control, but gives him the necessary ad
vantage of knowing his ranges intimately.
Tuesday nights show required a pooling of 
all his improvisational resources, as well as any 
stand-up he could think of. Straight stand-up 
was a step down from his prop routines, and 
it was out of the ordinary for Rich Hall. It seem
ed to come naturally after years of his higher 
comedy. The audience may not have even 
realized the true stress of the situation, and lov
ed the show just the same. But for the real show, 
see Rich Hall next time he has his luggage.
This week at
theSymphony
March 14Friday (Series A,A2), 8:30
March 15Saturday (Series C.C1), 8:00
March 16Sunday (Series B.B1.B3). 2:30
Lorin Maazel, Conductor
SchubertRoamunde Overture
TchaikovskySymphony No. 2 <Little Russian)
RimskyKorsakovSymphony No. 2 (Anatar)*
We feature GM cars 
like this Chevy Chevette.
Semester Break Rate
160
Make your break in a car from 
National. You can rent a car if 
you're 18 or older, have a valid 
driver's license, current student 
I D. and a cash deposit. Stop by 
and fill out a short cash qualifi
cation form at least 24hours in 
advance.
You pay for gas used and return 
car to anting location. Most 
major credit cards accepted.
Non-discountable rate applies to Chevy Chevette or similar-size car ar  s subject to change without notice. Rates slig fitly lower for drivers over 25. Specific cars subject to availability. Certain daily minimums apply. Call for details.
$00
PER 
WEEK No Mileage Charge
National Car Rental.
Carnegie-Mellon deserves National attention.
Available at:
4621 Forbes Avenue (Oakland)
682-1444

---------------------------------------------------

Illustration bv Chris Shannon
VW,k.___(o
Illustration by Elise Friedland
I'M* ttmfk ______fV*>1jL. _JHK
Illustration by Dave Biber

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements
Carnegie Salutes Carnegie, scheduled for 8:30 pm, 
April 19, at the Civic Arena, combines the talents 
of Carnegie Mellon alumni from stage and screen with 
those of student performers. The line up includes host 
Andy Williams with Charles Haid, Barbara Feldon, 
Jerry Lewis, Steven Bochco, Barbara Bosson, Diane 
Fratantoni, Robert Foxworth and Nancy Marchand. 
The show caps the universitys annual three-day 
Spring Carnival. Student tickets are available after 
March 12 at the Skibo Information Desk. Students 
must present their ID to receive two free tickets. For 
more information and tickets call 268-8893. 
President Cyerts Office Hours. President Richard 
M. Cyert has open office hours for students on March 
11 and April 4 from 3 pm to 5 pm in his office, WH 
602. Students who wish to meet with the president 
should telephone his secretary at 268-2200 to set 
up an appointment.
Three Rivers Arts Festival. Entry forms are now 
available for Pittsburghs Three Rivers Arts Festival, 
June 6-22. The Festival was described in 1985 as 
an event with vitality and energy. A total of 
$319,000 in cash and purchase awards will be of
fered to artists. Award winners in six juried categories 
will participate in a group exhibition at downtowns 
Gallery G in 1987. Artists honored in the film, video 
and photography categories will have a special show
ing at the prestigious Blatent Image Gallery next year. 
Works are accepted from artists living, working or 
studying in Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York, West 
Virginia, Maryland, Washington, D.C., New Jersey, 
Virginia and Delaware. Juried categories at the 
Festival are: painting, graphics, Artists Market, 
fibers, crafts, indoor sculpture, outdoor sculpture, 
photography, film and video. The deadline for enter
ing juried exhibitions is March 15. For more infor
mation call: 261-7040.
Veterans Memorial Scholarship Fund. The 1986 
Coors Veterans Memorial Scholarship Fund provides 
more than $500,000 to the sons and daughters of 
American Veterans. To be eligible for consideration, 
applicants must have completed at least one year of 
college, have a cumulative grade-point average of at 
least 2.75 on a 4.0 scale and be under 22 years of 
age as of July 1, 1986. Applicants must be 
dependents of American service personnel who were 
killed in action, are missing in action or who died 
in the line of duty. The student may reside anywhere 
worldwide, but must be enrolled full-time in an ac
credited four-year institution of higher education in 
the U.S. Applications can be obtained from local 
Coors distributors or participating veterans organiza
tions, by writing Coors Veterans Memorial Scholar
ship Fund, P. 0. Box 7529, Wheeling, 111., 60090,
Classifieds
Tvping-Word Processing Dissertations, 
Papers- $2.50 per page. Resumes and
* Manuscripts. REVISIONS- NO PROBLEM! 
Free delivery. Compu-Aid, Inc.- 765-2133. 
DISTINCTIVE WEDDING INVITATIONS, 
ANNOUNCEMENTS, STATIONARY, for all 
occasions. FABULOUS SELECTION, DIS
COUNT PRICES. J.R. Stationary shown by ap
pointment. 243-0380.
Sl0-$360 Weekly/Lp Mailing Circulars! No
Quotas! Sincerly interested rush self-addressed 
envelope; Success, POBox 470CES, 
Woodstock, IL 60098.
Roomate needed immediately* Graduate/Mature undergrad- Share 2Brm Point 
Breeze Apt. SI 50/mo. includes utilities. Quiet, 
non-smoker, only. Call 363-0189.
CM I GAY AND LESBIAN ALLIANCE Now 
CMU has a discussion and social group for the 
gay and lesbian members of the campus com
munity. In our weekly meetings, speakers, films 
and discussion topics are presented to address 
the interestsand concerns of group members. 
Confidentiality is assured.
To be placed on our mailing list, please contact:
CMU GALA 
P.O. Box 172 
BAKER HALL
or by calling toll-free to 1-800-49COORS. Deadline 
for completed applications and materials is July 1, 
1986.
Buhl Science Center. Real, Live Robots is 
presented through March 31 from 1 pm to 5 pm dai
ly; Friday evenings until 9:30 pm and 10 am to 9:30 
pm, Saturdays. Special hours are in effect for Easter 
weekend. Call 321- 4300.
Save Those Snowballs! On Saturday, June 21, 
Solstice Day, each snowball is good for one free ad
mission to the Snowball Arena at The Buhl Science 
Center.
Decrease Stress. Managing School and Personal 
Stress, Wednesdays at 4:30 pm to 5:30 pm through 
March 19. The Womens Group, Thursdays at 5 
pm to 6 pm through March 20. Getting Along: Deal
ing with Roommate Conflict, Tuesdays at 4:30 pm 
to 5:30 pm through March 18. Going Home Again: 
Dealing With Parents, Wednesdays at 4 pm to 5 
pm from March 12 through March 19. Understan
ding Alcohol and Drug Abuse in Families, Tuesdays 
at 4 pm to 5 pm from March 11 through March 18. 
For more information and registration call x2922 or 
visit Counseling and Student Development Center, 
Morewood Gardens El03 from 9 am to noon or 1 
pm to 5 pm.
Summer Archaeological Field School. Applica
tions are being accepted for a four- to eight-week ar
chaeological field school at Monticello, the home of 
Thomas Jefferson, during the summer of 1986. The 
course teaches the method and theory of fieldwork 
in American historical archaeology and offers both 
the untrained and experienced student the chance 
to learn practical skills of excavation and recording. 
The course consists of weekly seminars, field and 
laboratory work and presentations by prominent guest 
lecturers. Full tuition is provided by the Thomas Jef
ferson Memorial Foundation. Room and board may 
be arranged through the University of Virginia at a 
moderate cost. For more information and an applica
tion please write to Dr. William M. Kelso, Director 
of Archaeology, Monticello, Department SN, Box 
316, Charlottesville, VA 22902. The deadline for 
applications is April 14.
Frankenstein Exhibit. An exhibit on Frankenstein 
is presented through April 30 from 1:30 pm to 4:30 
pm or by appointment in the Fine Book Room, Hunt 
Library, fourth floor.
City Theater Company. Painting Churches by Tina 
Howe is presented through March 29. For ticket in
formation, call 624-4101.
Cape Cod Summer Job Bureau. Cape Cod, 
Massachusetts and the off- shore islands of Nantucket 
and Marthas Vineyard have more good paying jobs
MAKE $5/HR Calling alumni. If interseted, call 
Trish at x2021.
PITTSBURGH GUITARS- We buy, sell, & 
trade used and vintage guitars. 4806 Liberty, 
Bloomfield, across from West Penn Hospital. 
621-4733.
Regent Square/Wilkinsburg. For Rent: 
Modern one bedroom garden apartment. 
Security building- On bus line. WAV CarpetingCental Air Conditioning. All appliancesDraperies- Cable Television. $325 plus gas heat 
and electricity. Available April 1, 1986. Call 
after 6:00 p.m.- 242-0753.
ACT NOW DISKETTES. Bulk 5% DS/DD
49 cents each. Lots of 50. These are not 2nds. 
Money back guarantee, no questions asked. 
POs accepted. Call 1-800-633-9242, 9-9 EST 
M-F, 10-6 Sat. Offer expires 3/1/86. 
CAREGIVER needed for my infant in Squir
rel Hill home M-F. Must have experience, 
references, own transportation or use bus. Call
422-8519 between 7&9 pm.
W ANTED... Y our dissertation, thesis or pro
posal. Exelent service, resonable prices. Call 
Cathy, 363-1016. (Rush jobs accepted)
Parties. Parties. Parties- We have everything 
for your party in our 10,000 square foot Party 
Supermarket. PAPERMART, Baum Blvd. at 
Morewood Street. 681-8900.
open to students and teachers this summer than ever 
before. Hiring continues through June, but the choice 
jobs generally go to those who apply earliest. For im
mediate information on the many kinds of jobs 
available and details on how to apply send a selfaddressed stamped envelope to: Cape Cod Summer 
Job Bureau, Box 594, Room 8, Barnstable, MA 
02630.
Pittsburgh Playhouse Junior Childrens Theatre.
The Magic Horn of Charlemagne. A heroic story of 
young Roland, nephew of Charlemagne, who seeks 
to recover the Emperors famous sword Durandal 
from evil Falerine. Set against the background of the 
Middle Ages, this play brings the period and its peo
ple to life in a stirring adventure at 11 am and 2:30 
pm, Saturdays, and 2:30 pm, Sundays, through 
March 29.
Blatent Image Gallery. Matt Bulvony exhibits The 
End of the Road Show4 through March 29. The 
Gallery invites the public to attend an open forum 
on March 13 at 8 pm where Bulvony discusses his 
work. Gallery hours are noon to 5 pm, Wednesday 
through Saturday. The gallery is at 1015 East Car
son Street.
Velar Gallery'. Margot Mandel, a senior printmaker, 
presents a show By My Choice* of selected 
woodblock prints and drawings through March 27. 
Gallery hours are 9 am to 5 pm, Monday through 
Friday.
Marcus Gordon Gallery. Six new etchings by Judy 
Barie are presented. Hugh Kepets, Paul Narkiewicz, 
Leslie Golomb, Nancy Hagin and Carolyn Brady also 
exhibit their work. The exhibition runs through March
22. Gallery hours are 11 am to 5:30 pm, Monday 
through Saturday; 11 am to 8 pm, Thursday. The 
Gallery is at 416 Craig Street.
Robert Arneson: Points of V iew . Robert Arneson 
presents his ceramic sculptures, drawings and prints 
through March 16 at the Pittsburgh Center for the 
Arts Commons Room Gallery.
Mark Burns: A Decade in Pennsylvania, 
1975-1985. Mark Burns presents his ceramics and 
mixed media through March 23 at the Society for 
Art in Crafts, 719 Allegheny Biver Boulevard. Gallery 
hours are 10 am to 5 pm, Monday through Satur
day, and 1 pm to 5 pm, Sunday.
Political Statements in Clay. Dale Dapkins, James 
Dugas, Don Fisher, Peter Gourfain, Richards 
Lipscher, Kirk Mangus, and Jeff Schlanger exhibit 
their work through March 20 at the Clay Place, 5600 
Walnut Street. Gallery hours are 10 am to 5 pm, 
Monday through Saturday; 7 pm to 9 pm, Wednes
day.
AUTHENTIC ORENTAL CARPETS. Direct 
sales from importer. Call Hal at 687-2859. 
HIGHWAY, TRAFIC, STREET SIGNS. Of
ficial. Send 81 for catalogue. DE-SIGN STORE, 
P.O. Box 2781, Palm Beach, FL. 33480.
Carnegie Museum of Art Special Programs and
Events. Saturdays at the Museum for Families and 
Friends, is held in the Childrens Room from 1:30 
pm to 3 pm. Advance registration. Call 622-3214. 
Carnegie Museum of Natural History. Nature 
Photography Programs. A variety of classes are of
fered from Basic Photography to Scenic Photography. 
Advance registration. Fees vary.
Carnegie Institute. Natural World Photographic 
Competition and Exhibition (Changing Exhibits 
Gallery) continues through March 16. 
Carnegie-Mellon University Art Gallery. Abstrac
tion: Abstraction is shown from March 15 through 
April 27. Sam Gilliams paintings are exhibited in 
Gallery A, while five emerging abstract artists are ex
hibiting their work in Gallery B. Gallery hours are
10 am to 5 pm, Tuesday through Friday; 11 am to
5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm to 4 pm, Sunday. The 
Gallery is at 407 South Craig Street.
Forbes Gallery. Jill Ziccardi, Betsy Linn and Elise 
Cohen present their work March 11 through March
16. Gallery hours are 11 am to 6 pm, Wednesday 
through Friday, and noon to 5 pm, Saturday and Sun
day. Opening 7 pm to 9 pm. Befreshments served. 
Second Burroughs Design Competition. Bur
roughs Corporation has announced the Second Bur
roughs Design Competition for outstanding examples 
of industrial design of products that incorporate com
puter capability and technology in the 
human/machine interface. The competition is open 
to upper level industrial design students and recent 
graduates in North America. First prize is a cash 
award of $10,000 to the designer. The educational 
sponsor of the first prize recipient receives a Bur
roughs B 25 business computer with printer. Second 
prize is $5,000 to the designer and third prize is 
$1,000. All entries must be received by March 31. 
Award winners will be notified by telegram after April
15. Further information on the 1986 Burroughs 
Design Competition can be obtained from: Competi
tion Coordinator, Corporate Industrial Design, Bur
roughs Corporation, 41100 Plymouth Boad, 
Plymouth, MI 48170. Telephone: 313-451-4468. 
Intervarsity Christian Fellowship. Daily prayer 
meetings are held at 6 pm in the Chapel, Skibo room
39, Monday through Saturday.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy celebrates dai
ly mass at 12:30 pm. Monday through Friday in 
CMUs chapel, Skibo 39. Weekend masses are at
7 pm Saturadya evening and 10:30 am Sunday mor
ning in the graduate school of industrial administra
tion auditorium. For more information call: The 
Oratory, 681-3181.
DISCOUNT ON OVER 50 BRANDS OF 
AUDIO AND VIDEO EQUIPMENT. CALL 
687-2859.
Shadyside Apt. 1 Bedroom, 3 rooms, securi
ty system, w/w, redecorated. Tel: 621-2873.
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center................268-2922
After 5:00 p.m., a recorded message tells how to reach the staff 
member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh.....................................................................782 4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive 
listening.
Drug Connection..............................................................................854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 59 p.m.
Tel-Aid................................................................................................ 281 4664
A series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safe
ty issues. Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh 
telephone directory. 
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs.

---------------------------------------------------

Events
11
Tuesday
Movies
Wednesday
Blow Up, starring Vanessa 
Redgrave, David Hemmings and Sarah Miles. 
Fascinating film about a photographer who 
photographs what appears to be a murder. Lots of 
symbolism. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 
9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Department of Architecture Lecture Series. Peter 
Eisenman speaks at 8 pm in WeH 7500.
SMS CEO Dialogue All - Day Seminar. 'Megabytes 
Dont Always Mean Meg^bucks...Trends In Small 
Business Computing/ Topics include; How to 
Automate Your Business, presented by Cynthia 
Johnson, Management Directions, Inc.; How to Buy 
Computer Hardware and Software, presented by Jim 
Hook, GENIX Corporation and Curt Starr, Price 
Waterhouse; Alternatives to Computer Ownership, 
presented by Cynthia Johnson; Legal Considerations, 
presented by Eckert Seamans, Cherin and Mellott; 
and A Case Study of a small business that bought 
a computer, at 8:30 am to 4:30 pm. Admission $80 
for SMC Members and $90 for non-members. Fee 
includes lunch and all seminar materials. Reserva
tions must be made in advance. For information or 
to register, call 391-1622.
Workshops
Interviewing Tips. Calm anxieties by learning about 
the format of a screening interview and how to 
prepare for it at 11:30 am in Skibo room 201.
Having Second Thoughts About Your Maj'or?
Learn how Career Services and Placement can help 
you sort through these feelings and explore career 
options, at 11:30 am in Skibo room 112 or 4:30 pm 
in Skibo room 201.
12
Movies
The Woman Next Door, starring 
Gerard Depardieu and Fanny Ardant. A romantic, 
but ultimately tragic tale of two lovers who meet 
several years after their love affair has ended. Well 
acted and directed. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm 
and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Harold & Maude. Scotland Yard, 7 pm and 10 pm.
Sponsored by AB Lectures
Lectures
Department of Art Visiting Series. Mark Wilson, 
Computer artist, speaks about his work at 7:30 pm 
in the Adamson Wing.
Visiting Writers Series. Peter Kiappert, poet, speaks 
at 8 pm in the Adamson Wing. For more informa
tion call Jim Daniels: 268-2866.
Clubs
AIESEC, an international, student-run business 
organization, offers a world of experience, both prac
tical and cultural. Meetings are held at 4:30 pm in 
Skibo room 11.
French Table. The Modern Languages Program 
sponsors a French Language Table every Wednes
day at noon in the Morewood Cafeteria.
Alpha Phi Omega. Meetings are held at 8:30 pm 
in the Adamson Wing.
Thursday
13
Movies
VIoscow Does Not Believe in 
Tears. Three women come to Moscow in the late
1950s looking for work and love. Oscar for best 
foreign film. Previewed by Reagan before the 1985 
Gorbachev summit meeting. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Breathless, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at
6 pm, 8 pm and 10 pm. Admission $1.
Lectures
Department of Psychology Colloquium. Dr.
Clayton Lewis, University of Colorado, speaks on 
Causal Analysis in Human-Computer Interaction,1 
at 4 pm in the Adamson Wing. Coffee will be serv
ed before the lecture in the Psychology Lounge, BH 
336-D.
Department of Chemical Engineering Seminar.
Thomas J. Stanley, Department of Chemical 
Engineering, University of Pennsylvania, speaks on 
Phase-Transfer Catalysis in a Membrane Reactor/ 
at 11 am in DH 1112. Coffee and donuts are serv
ed at 10:45 in DH 1102.
Carnegie Mellon Objectivist Club. Dr. Harry 
Binswanger speaks on Individualism, The Moral 
Basis of Freedom/ at 8 pm in the media room of 
Hunt Library.
Vlusic
Computer Music Concert. Several computer music 
pieces are performed using computers and music syn
thesizers or an accordian and taped accompaniment 
at 8 pm in Skibo Ballroom.
Special Events
Museum of Art Special Programs and Events.
Parent/Child ARTexpress provides weekly activities 
for adults and children from 10 am to 11:30 am 
every Thursday. Advance registration. For more in
formation call 622-3241.
Clubs
r
German Table. The Modern Languages Program 
sponsors a German Language table at noon in the 
Morewood Cafeteria.
CML Explorers Club. If youre interested in rock 
climbing, kayaking, caving and hiking, come to a 
meeting at 6:30 pm in BH 131B. Trips every 
weekend. Beginners are welcome.
Friday
Movies
Harold and Maude, starring Ruth 
Gordon, Bud Cort and Vivian Pickles. A comedy cult 
classic about a young man and his 79-year-old 
girlfriend. Bizarre and hilarious. Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Fletch, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm,
8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. Admission $1.
 O
Lectures
H&SS Distinguished Lecture Series. Donald T. 
Campbell, Professor of Social Relations, Lehigh 
University, speaks on Rationality and Utility from 
the Standpoint of Evolutionary Biology/ at 3 pm in 
the Adamson Wing.
Workshops
Sexual Attitude Reassessment. Wrilliam Stayton^ 
Ph.D., presents a workshop to enhance your profes
sional and personal understanding of human sexuality 
and sex roles. For more information call Ms. Lin
coln: 562-1900. Sponsored by The Greater Pitt
sburgh Sexuality Council, Womens Health Services,
I
tEg OenT
PIZZA ,,J
TP!
CA.P  '
________ 681-2202 or 681-2203

---------------------------------------------------

March 11, 1986The TartanPage 25
The Pennsylvania Association For Marriage and 
Family Therapy and the University of Pittsburgh Of
fice of Urban and Community Affairs.
Special Events
Dance Alloy. Dance Alloy performs at 8 pm in The 
Eddy Theatre at Chatham College. For more infor
mation call: 421-9747.
Clubs
Intervarsity Christian Fellowship. Large group 
meetings are held at 7 pm in Skibo room 12.
15
Saturday
Movies
Amadeus, starring F. Murray 
Abraham (Oscar winner) and Tom Hulce. Sensational 
adaptation of Peter Shaffers play about a composer 
whose jealousy helps destroy Mozart. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 10:15 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Year of the Dragon, sponsored by AB Films. DH 
2210 at 6 pm, 8:30 pm and 11 pm. Admission $1.
Workshops
Sexual Attitude Reassessment. William Stayton, 
Ph.D., presents a workshop to enhance your profes
sional and personal understanding of human sexuality 
and sex roles. For more information call Ms. Lin
coln: 562-1900. Sponsored by The Greater Pitt
sburgh Sexuality Council, Womens Health Services, 
The Pennsylvania Association For Marriage and 
Family Therapy and the University of Pittsburgh Of
fice of Urban and Community Affairs.
Music
River City Brass Band. The River City Brass Band 
performs at 8 pm at Carnegie Music Hall. Tickets 
are available at the TIX Booth in Oliver Plaza or by 
phoning 322-7222. Admission $13.50, $7.00 and 
$5.00; seniors and students $3.00.
Special Events 
0
Auditions for the Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre 
School. Kim Young, director, is holding auditions 
at The Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre School, 2900 Liber
ty Avenue at 1:30 pm. Regulation dancewear, ballet 
shoes, pointe shoes and a resume indicating age, 
weight, prior training and photo are needed. An audi
tion fee of $10 per student is payable prior to the
audition. The six-week summer program is schedul
ed from June 16 to July 26 for students ages 13 and 
up. For more information call: 281-0360.
Dance Alloy. Dance Alloy performs at 8 pm in The 
Eddy Theatre at Chatham College. For more infor
mation call: 421-9747.
16
Sunday
Movies
PrecisionHaircut
onlv
H 3.00
Just-A-Cut
Precision Haircuts custom designed for the look you want
Designer 
Perm
only 
$8.00
Complete *i shampoo 
A blow style
No Appointments
Precision haircut only
onlv*25.00
complete wltti i/rltten guoronteel
SATISFACTION GUANANTEED'^^Jg 
Great Styles Startat...^^ ML.
NECESSARY WIUI Ic8fcmwns.
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
IHM WITH IMIS C OUPON  iHI IBsave$ 2.00
on thePrecision Haircut I
Compiete with shampoo 4 |
Otter Expires:
Mar. 31, 1986SltUTi cMfccnnMSj687-3500
Greater Pittsburgh, Inc., an organization which mat
ches adults with children from single parent families 
who are in need of additional companionship and 
guidance. For more information call: 621-6100. 
Dance Alloy. Dance Alloy performs at 2 pm in The 
Eddy Theatre at Chatham College. For more infor
mation call: 421-9747.
Nicholas Nickelby, starring Derek 
Bond, Cedric Hardwicke, Sally Ann Howes and Sybil 
Thorndike. Fine adaptation of the Charles Dickens 
novel about a young mans life. Exceptional cast. Pitt
sburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admis
sion $2.95.
Europe in Him Series: Sisters, starring Margarethe 
von Trotta. The very different life choices made by 
two sisters and the consequences of those choices 
for their relationship. Admission is free. Adamson 
Wing at 3 pm. This series is sponsored by the Pro
gram in European Studies, Department of History.
Time Bandits, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 
at 6 pm, 8 pm and 10 pm. Admission $1.
Sports
Backgammon Tournament. One pm at the Col
lege Club, 143 North Craig Street. For more infor
mation call : 391-6363 or 241-1301.
Music
Choir Concert. Two Duquesne University choirs, 
The University Singers and the Madrigal Singers, pre
sent a free concert at 8 pm at St. Pauls Monastery, 
South Side. For more information call: 434-6080. 
River City Brass Band. The River City Brass Band 
performs at 7:30 pm at the South Hills Theatre. 
Tickets are available at the TIX Booth in Oliver Plaza 
or by phoning 322-7222. Admission $10, $8 and 
$6; seniors and students $8, $6 and $4.
Special Events
OBSESSION. Carnegie Mellons Annual Fashion 
Show featuring the latest fasions from Foxmore 
Casuals, Jean Nicole, Off the Peg, and many more. 
Starts at 5:00 p.m. in Skibo Ballroom. Donation: 
$3.50 in advance or $4.00 at the door. Tickets are 
available at the Information Desk. The Fashion Show 
is sponsored by Spirit.
Bowl for Kids Day. Louis Lipps of the Pittsburgh 
Steelers has been selected as the Honorary Chair
man for the 1986 Bowl for Kids Day.1 Lipps greets 
bowlers and autographs footballs for participants. The 
bowl-a- thon benefits Big Brothers and Sisters of
17
Monday
Movies
Blade Runner, starring Harrison 
Ford, Rutger Hauer and Sean Young. A futuristic 
thriller set in a very rainy Los Angeles in 2019. 
Remarkable visuals. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm and 10:10 pm. Admission $2.95.
Art History Film Series: American Art. American 
Light: The Luminist Movement and Art in America, 
Part 11: Hudson River School to Dada are shown 
at 7:30 pm at the King Estate.
Frankenstein, The Original, sponsored by Student 
Activities and the Libraries in DH 2210. Admission
18
Tuesday
Movies
Careful He Might Hear You, star
ring Wendy Hughes and Robyn Nevin. Beautifully 
acted film about a custody battle waged between a 
wealthy woman and her poor sister. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:40 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Good Guys Wear Black, sponsored by the Invest
ment Group. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and 
midnight. Admission $1.
Lectures
Chemical Engineering Seminar. Daniel A. Ham
mer, Department of Chemical Engineering, Univer
sity of Pennsylvania, speaks on Analysis of ReceptorMediated Cell Adhesion4 at 11 am in DH 1112. Cof
fee and donuts are served at 10:45 am in DH 1102.
Workshops
Pysanka: Decorated Eggs of the U kraine. Joanne
Staroschak teaches techniques for making these ex
quisite designs. Two raw. medium-sized eggs and any 
type of candle are needed. Beeswax, stylus and dyes 
are included in the price of the tuition. Two pm to 
4 pm or 6:30 pm to 8:30 pm in the Scaife Building 
room two. Cost to members is $12 and cost to non
members is $15. The Pittsburgh Center for the Arts 
is the corner of Fifth and Shady Avenues. For more 
information call 361-0455.
Music
River City Brass Band. The River City Brass Band 
performs at 8 pm at Gateway High School in 
Monroeville. Tickets are available at the TIX Booth 
in Oliver Plaza or by phoning 322-7222. Admission 
$10, $8 and $6; seniors and students $8, $6 and 
$4.
Music Recital. Ann Labounsky, organist, and Alan 
Grishman, violinist, perform a free recital at 8 pm 
at the Pittsburgh Theological Seminary . For more in
formation call: 434-6080.
19
Wednesday 
Movies
Watership Down. Animated film 
of Richard Adams best seller about a rabbit family
MM
The Association for Industrial Management
and Economics
Bring this coupon 1o our newt meeting 
and receiue a more fulfilling future!
Tear here
5:00 pm - Monday 
March 17,1986 
G SIA Master's Auditorium
Write the perfect cover letter 
Professor Robert Atkin
with
What a Bargain!!!
Funded by Student Rctiuities

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26The TartanMarch 11, 1986
trying to find a place to live. More for adults than 
children. With the voices of Zero Mostel. John Hurt 
and Ralph Richardson. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm and 9:30 pm. Admission 82.95.
Spring Break, at Scotland Yard, 7 & 10 pm. Spon
sored by AB Lectures.
Lectures
Department of Mechanical Engineering Guest 
Lecture Series. Professor Daniel C. Drucker, Univer
sity of Florida, speaks on A View of the Develop
ment and Current State of Plasticity Theory4 at 3:15 
pm in Scaife Hall Auditorium. Coffee and donuts are 
served at 2:45 pm in the Scaife Hall Lounge, room 
322.
Clubs
every Thursday. Advance registration. For more in
formation call 622-3241.
Sports
Fencing. N.C.A.A. Nationals at Princeton.
Clubs
German Table. The Modern Languages Program 
sponsors a German Language table at noon in the 
Morewood Cafeteria.
CML Explorers Club. If youre interested in rock 
climbing, kayaking, caving and hiking, come to a 
meeting at 6:30 pm in BH 131B. Trips every 
weekend. Beginners are welcome.
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission
S2.95.
Wednesday
26
Movies
Notorious, starring Cary Grant, In
grid Bergman and Claude Rains. Terrific espionage 
thriller set in South America during WWII. Bergman 
is dazzling in this one. Watch for the famous key 
scene. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 
pm. Admission S2.95.
Lectures
CML Explorers Club. If youre interested in rock 
climbing, kayaking, caving and hiking, come to a 
meeting at 6:30 pm in BH 131B. Trips every 
weekend. Beginners are welcome.
Friday
Movies
Clue, starring Eileen Brennan, Tim 
Curry, Madeline Kahn, Christopher Lloyd and Lesley^ 
Ann Warren. The famous Parker Brothers board 
game comes to the screen in this comedy whodunit. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 
11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Clubs
AIESEC, an international, student-run business 
organization, offers a world of experience, both prac
tical and cultural. Meetings are held at 4:30 pm in 
Skibo room 11.
French Table. The Modern Languages Program 
sponsors a French Language Table every W ednes
day at noon in the Morewood Cafeteria.
Alpha Phi Omega. Meetings are held at 8:30 pm 
in the Adamson Wing.
20
Thursday
Movies
Comfort and Joy, starring Bill 
Paterson and Elenor David. Pleasant comedy set in 
Glasgow about a depressed radio personality whose 
life takes a strange turn when his oddball girlfriend 
leaves him. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 
9:30 pm. Admission S2.95.
East of Eden, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 
at 6 pm. Admission SI.
Rebel \\ ithout a Cause, sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 8 pm. Admission 81.
Giant, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at 10 pm.
Admission SI.
lectures
Department of Psycholog) Colloquium. Dr.
Henry Wellman, University of Michigan, speaks on 
Childs Theory of Mind at 4 pm in the Adamson 
ing. Coffee will be served before the lecture in the 
Psychology Lounge, BH 336-D.
Department of Chemical Engineering Seminar.
Dr. Joseph A. N. Zasadzinski, AT&T Bell 
Laboratories, speaks on Theory and Observations 
of Microstructured Fluids via Electron Microscopy4 
at 11 am in DH 1112. Coffee and donuts are serv
ed at 10:45 in DH 1102.
Bioengineering Graduate Program Seminar. Pro
fessor Robert M. Sutherland, The Cancer Center, Ex
perimental Center Therapeutics Division, Universi
ty of Rochester Medical Center, speaks about Tumor 
Cell and Microenvironmental Heterogeneity: Oxygen 
and Glucose are Critical Metabolites4 at 12:30 pm 
in DH 1102. A light lunch is served at noon prior 
to the seminar and a question-and-answer session 
follows. Hunt Library.
L .S. Environmental Protection Agency. Dr.
Milton Russell, Assistant Administrator of the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency for Policy and 
Planning, speaks on recent EPA decisions at 4 pm 
in GSIA's Masters Auditorium.
Department of Art V isiting Series. Krishna Red
dy, printmaker, speaks about his work at 7 pm in 
the Adamson Wing.
Special Events
Museum of Art Special Programs and Events. 
Parent/Child ARTexpress provides weekly activities 
for adults and children from 10 am to 11:30 am
21
Friday
Movies
Chuck Amuck: Chuck Jones 
Greatest Cartoons, 15 of Chuck Jones best in
cluding "Duck Amuck,4 4The Scarlet Pumpernickel4 
and 4The Rabbit of Seville.4 Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm. 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission S2.95.
Lectures
H&SS Distinguished Lecture Series. Larry Gross, 
Professor of Communications, Annenberg School of 
Communications, University of Pennsylvania, speaks 
on Life vs. Art: The Interpretation of Visual Nar
ratives/ at 3:30 pm in the Adamson Wing.
Clubs
Intervarsity Christian Fellowship. Large group 
meetings are held at 7 pm in Skibo room 12.
22
Saturday
Movies
Pee-Wees Big Adventure, starr
ing Pee-Wee Herman, Elizabeth Daily and Mark 
Holton. Wild comedy about a mans search for his 
bicycle. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm 
and 11:30 pm. Admission S2.95.
23
Sunday
Movies
Ivanhoe, starring Robert Taylor, 
Elizabeth Taylor, Joan Fontaine and George Sanders. 
Romance and chivalrous knights everywhere you look 
in this beautifully shot film about the Middle Ages 
in England. Based on Sir Walter Scotts novel. Pitt
sburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admis
sion 82.95.
Music
Concerto Concert. Student soloists perform at the 
Carnegie Music Hall.
24
Monday
.Movies
The Sorrow and the Pity. Brilliant 
documentary about the French involvement in W orld 
War II. A must for film goers. Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7:30 pm and 10:10 pm. Admission 82.95.
25
Tuesday
Movies
Lenny, starring Dustin Hoffman 
and Valerie Perrine. Well made film about the con
troversial life of the comic Lenny Bruce. Pittsburgh
Graduate School of Industrial Administration.
Dr. John Gibbons, Director of the Office of 
Technology Assessment, speaks on Advising Con
gress of Controversial Environmental Decisions4 at 
4 pm in GSIAs Main Auditorium.
Clubs
AIESEC, an international, student-run business 
organization, offers a world of experience, both prac
tical and cultural. Meetings are held at 4:30 pm in 
Skibo room 11.
French Table. The Modern Languages Program 
sponsors a French Language Table every Wednes
day at noon in the Morewood Cafeteria.
Alpha Phi Omega. Meetings are held at 8:30 pm 
in the Adamson Wing.
Intervarsity Christian Fellowship. Large group 
meetings are held at 7 pm in Skibo room 12.
290 y
Saturday
Movies
Young Sherlock Holmes, starring 
Nicholas Rowe, Alan Cox and Anthony Higgins. Nice 
performances highlight this film about Sherlock 
Holmes first meeting with Watson and their adven
tures together. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 
9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission 82.95.
27
Thursday
Movies
30
Sunday
Movies
Diva, starring Frederick Andrei and 
W ilhelmena Wiggins, Fernandez. A comedy-thriller 
about a French postman who falls in love with an 
American opera singer and gets mixed up with 
criminals. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:40 
pm. Admission 82.95.
Special Events
Museum of Art Special Programs and Events.
Parent/Child ARTexpress provides weekly activities 
for adults and children from 10 am to 11:30 am 
every Thursday. Advance registration. For more in
formation call 622-3241.
Clubs
German Table. The Modern Languages Program 
sponsors a German Language table at noon in the 
Morewood Cafeteria.
Easter Parade, starring Judy 
Garland. Fred Astaire, Peter Lawford and Ann 
Miller. Fine Irving Berlin musical about a man try
ing to forget an ex-dance partner. Songs include 
Stepping Out with My Baby and Easter Parade/ 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Ad
mission 82.95.
Music
*
The Pittsburgh Symphony. Christoph Eschenbach 
conducts and perfoms Mozart and Brahms at 2:30 
pm in Heinz Hall. Admission 83.50.
Monday
31
Movies
Stroszek, starring Bruno S, Eva 
Mattes and Clemens Scheitz. A trio of misfits and 
eccentrics travels across the U.S. in search of th 
American dream. Fascinating road picture. Pitt
sburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admis
sion 82.95.
o
Student out to bust MS at Station Square on Saturday.
!0

---------------------------------------------------

UDS: More than meets the mouth
By MELINDA HODGE
Tartan Staffu riter
A recent visit from a friend of mine, who at
tends an expensive university on the east coast 
really opened my eyes to a facet of our univer
sity system that I had not bothered 
to explore before. As is suggested 
by my title, I am referring to none 
other than CMUs own University Dining 
t Service.
Mv friend was, believe it or not, incredulous 
at all the extras he encountered at the Kiltie 
Cafe. Carpeting in a public cafeteria? 
Upholstered chairs? And the food? All you can 
eat? It didnt take him any time at all to stack 
(and restack) his tray full of several entrees, 
vegetables, soup, saladsnot to mention all the 
additional trips for ice cream and pastries (I 
assumed they didnt feed him back home). After 
finishing a liter of soda, he remarked, You 
know, for the price youre paying for meals 
( here, you sure are getting a heck of a lot."
This comment caught me by surprise, for I 
had never before considered the actual dollar 
value of the meals at Kiltie, or any other UDS 
dining area. Food service at CMU for me was 
like any other university facilityjust another 
convenience. As we all know, we often overlook 
and take for granted those details of our lives 
until someone makes a point of bringing it up. 
This is exactly the raison detre for this article.
What would CMU do without its food service? 
After some investigation, I realized UDS is much 
4-more than just another convenience. There is 
a lot that goes on behind the food lines of Skibo 
and Morewood, most of which we know very 
little about. There are a lot of facts, unknown 
to those outside of the UDS employee circles, 
that should be cleared up.
The first of these is the fact that the UDS 
svstem here at CMU is just that, a system. It 
is an organization staffed by professionals and 
many who have been in the business for years. 
UDS makes a point of keeping up to its stan
dards through numerous policies and rules. Its 
plans of operation are constantly under revision. 
And like any other conscientious service 
organization, UDS considers its customers its 
first priority.
Who works for UDS? Over 300 people do. 
These employees are either members of the ad
ministrative group, the production staff, or the 
student employees.
The administrative group consists of UDS 
secretaries, clerks, accountants, employee coor
dinators, and the managers. These are the peo
ple you find lurking in the offices of Skibo rm 
*-62 and rm 27, and the Kiltie and Morewood
offices long after their 9 to 5 shifts answering 
phones, making appointments, organizing dif
ferent projects, finishing paper work, or doing 
half a dozen other things to prepare for the 
following day (These are also the people who, 
should you have a compaint or suggestion, you 
should speak to). At the top of this ad
ministrative ladder stands Bob Choate, Direc
tor of UDS, hes held this post since January 
of 1982. Before his incumbency, UDS was call
ed UFS (short for University Food Service). At 
that time CMUs food service was primarily self
supported. Due to financial difficulties Marriott, 
the corporate name in the food industry, in 
hotels, etc. stepped in, acting as UDSs purchas
ing agent and consultant and bringing with it 
several of its managerial employees.
The production staff of close to 150 full and 
part time employees are essentially responsible 
for everything that UDS serves. These are all 
the chefs, prep cooks, bakers, kitchen 
employees, counter servicers, cashiers, etc. who 
keep UDS functioning seven days a week.
The student employees UDS hires function 
also as part of the production staff. Why work 
for UDS? One student summed it up, Its really 
convenient for me to work here because the 
shifts are flexible and they pay more per hour 
than most fast-food places. He added, I get 
free meals for working here and thats really 
helped cut down on my grocery7 bills."'
Convenience is a policy that UDS tries to 
uphold not only for its student employees but 
also for the rest of the CMU community. To ac
commodate everybody's preferences and 
schedules, UDS has provided seven different 
area of service. Thev are:
is reserved for CMU faculty and staff alone. facts: 
7) Catering ServiceWho did you think 
brought coffee and doughnuts to your club 
meeting? Catering services all the CMU 
student organizations, as well as faculty 
business meetings and other coat-and-tie 
affairs. It is responsible for putting 
together major CMU events such as the 
Presidents Dinner, Homecoming, Com
mencement, and Freshman Orientation.
UDS is open on all holidays, with the excep
tion of Thanksgiving and Christmas. It also con
tinues its service throughout the summer.
Last summer, UDS underwent some major 
renovations and changes. These changes will 
take several years to complete and are estimated 
to cost some $700,000. These include new kit
chen equipment, better fighting fixtures, new 
cash registers, and air conditioning at 
Morewood. Obviously, we cant see all the im
provements being made and maybe it doesnt 
matter. But the next time you are in line at Kiltie 
or Morewood. take a look at your surroundings.
Did you notice the displays? Did you realize that 
all the special announcements, food labels, and 
price -listings are done in laminated graphic 
print? Yes, UDS does employ graphic artists.
All of these extras, those things we overlook 
are part of what UDS calls quality dining
1) The meals at the cafeterias run on a 28-day 
cycle, which means there are over 80 en
trees served a month. Some of the entrees
1) Kiltie Cafeopen 19 meals a week, 
starting at 7:30 am for breakfast and 
ending at 7:00 pm with dinner.
2) Tartan GrillUDs longest servicing 
facility, opens at 7:30 am for breakfast 
M-F, 8:30 am Sat. and Sun. and closes as 
late as midnight on Fri. and Sat.
3) Salads Plusa M-F operation, opens at 
11 am and closes at 7 pm.
4) Morewood Gardensserves lunch and*
dinner M-F, opens at 11 am and closes 
at 7 pm.
5) Morepizzaopens Mon-Thurs 8 pm to 
midnight, Sun. 6 pm to midnight, and 
Fri. and Sat. take-out only.
6) Faculty Clublittle known to most 
students, this self-sufficient dining area
Speaking of extras, think back on all the 
special events UDS hasThanksgiving and 
Christmas dinner, Japanese Gardens, Valen
tines Day, Mexican Fiesta. Coney Island Day, 
etc. One would think that with all of the changes 
and special additions our food contract meal 
plans would be hiked up significantly. For
tunately, this is not the case. The 1983-84 con
tract meal plan, set at $1344 rose to $1425 
in the 1985-86 year, a hike of only 6%.
Have you ever wondered what you are actual
ly paying per meal for being on a contract meal 
plan? Contracts, which are either 5. 10. 15 or
19 meals per week cost from $3.20 per meal 
for a 5-meal week, to $2.35 per meal on a 10 
meal plan. Think about it. How many 
restaurants do you know that serve all-vou-caneat dinners for under $3.00? The meal plans 
are becoming increasingly popular, as is evident 
in the growing number of contracts set every 
year. In 1981. there were roughly 1500 con
tracts; this year has seen almost double that 
number with more than 2800 contracts.
So much for contracts. Because there is a lot 
of misinformation and general ignorance con
cerning UDS food. I would like to present a few
use the same base product, such as 
chicken, but they are cooked and season
ed in a variety of ways (i.e. chicken ala 
king, fried chicken, etc.)
2) UDS buys from Behrhorst, a top quality
vendor. They do not, as a rule, put out 
generic foods. In fact, most of the pro
duct names they use are brand names were 
familiar withOscar Mayer bacon, Hormel 
ham, Pfeiffer and Heinz salad dressings 
and condiments, Smuckers jelly, etc...
3) All soups, sauces, and gravies are made
from scratch. All lasagna and pizza is 
made by hand.
4) Before each meal period, food placed on
the serv ing fines is always checked for cor
rect temperature and preparation.
5) All meats, like the hamburger you find in
the Tartan is 100% beef, no fillers or soy 
added.
6) There have been complaints about having
to eat leftovers' . The fact is, the food 
at UDS undergoes two steps; first it is pre
pared, then it is cooked. So, if there is left
over ham, it is refrigerated uncooked and 
cooked the next meal period. In other 
words, it is not simply reheated. This, ac
cording to UDS, is a better alternative to 
throwing mass quantities of untouched food
Admittedly, there are meals where the meat 
may not be cooked well enough, or the 
vegetables don't taste fresh, or pastries stale. 
In restaurants, where you find meals made to 
order, cooks have the time to prepare each in
dividual plate so that portions are substantial 
and items up to par. But one must remember 
we are daling with mass-production massconsumption. UDS serves thousands of meals 
each day, and for a school the size of CMU, 
it does quite well. Compare it with anv other 
university dining serv ice you know of or hap
pen to visit.
Water problems...
Contaminated drinking water
ent confirmed disgruntled customers, thatBv KEITH IHER
Tartan Staffwriter
When most Americans draw water from their 
taps they expect it to be relatively safe and 
clean. However, the 45,000 residents of the 
1 area served by the McKeesport Water Authority 
(McKeesport, White Oak, Port Vue and 
V erailles) no longer take safe drinking water for 
granted. The reason: from January 17 to 
February 21, the McKeesport Water Authori
ty s (MWA) filtration system was infected by 
Giardia lamblia parasites. The parasites cause 
a flu-like illness, giardiasis, with symptoms such 
as diarrhea, bloating, abdominal cramps and 
diminished appetite. To make the water safe for 
^drinking and cooking, residents were advised 
to boil it for at least a minute before using.
The January 17 outbreak is not the first time 
that Giardia has invaded the McKeesport 
system. Residents were force to boil their water 
f(,r more than three months after a similar outhieak in February, 1984. During that period 
there were 340 confirmed cases of the illness, 
^fter the more recent Giardia invasion, the
McKeesport Health Department confirmed 
twelve cases of the illness.
The Giardia Lamblia cysts are believed to 
have entered the McKeesport treatment plant 
through a cracked filter bed. Untreated water 
then mixed in with a reservoir of clean water 
near the filter bed.
After the discovery of the Giardia cysts, 
maintenance officials at the plant immediately 
laid plans to remedy the situation. However, on 
January 21, repairs were delayed when several 
sewage treatment plants were knocked out by 
heavy rains. The flooding also caused power 
outages for many area residents leaving them 
with the double inconvenience of contaminated 
water and no energy source with which to boil it.
By January 23, officials of the MWA had 
devised some short term solutions to the pro
blem. The volume of chlorine in the citys water 
system was tripled. The officials also announc
ed that the cracked well bed and four filters 
would be repaired.
However, these officials emphasized that 
these were only short term remedies. Thomas 
Griffiths, the MWA executive director stated, 
at a January 28 meeting of officials and
disgruntled customers, that only the rebuilding 
of the 76-year old facility would guarantee the 
elimination of the Giardia problem. In order to 
effect this construction, rates to water customers 
have been raised.
The construction of the new plant will cost an 
estimated 10.5 million dollars, and the plans 
have been approved by the McKeesport Health 
Department. Immediate action on the plan was 
stalled, however, when McKeesport Mayor 
Louis Washowich filed suit on November 14,
1985 to block sale of the old plant, which is 
owned by the city, to the MWA for 2 million 
dollars. The Mayor wanted to sell the plant to 
the Western Pennsylvania Wate Company, but 
indications are that the original plan will go 
ahead.
Although construction of the new plant will 
start very soon, completion of the project will 
take three to four years. In the meanwhile, the 
old facility will pose a continuing problem to the 
community.
To get a better insight on McKeesport water 
problems, I talked to Joel Tarr, urban historian 
from CMU. He said that McKeesports water 
problem was the result of two trends. During
the 1960s and 1970s, the federal government 
began supporting many of the countrys 
municipal authorities, However, cutbacks by the 
Reagan Administration left many localities with 
severe money shortages. In addition, 
McKeesport cities saw a slow down in their basic 
industries. The result was a shrinking tax-base 
in communities such as McKeesport. Without 
federal aid and with fewer tax revenues com
ing in, McKeesport was forced to cut back on 
many essential services. The result has been 
poor maintenance and dangerous stop-gap 
measures to make up for it. Tarr told me, for 
instance, that the use of higher amounts of 
chlorine poses a potential cancer risk.
Tarr said that the water problems in 
McKeesport, cutbacks in PAT service in Pitt
sburgh, and the elimination of the Clairton 
police force all stem from the same causes. Pro
fessor Tarr left me with this question; What 
level of risk are we willing to undergo? To the 
residents of McKeesport, and communities in 
a similar plight, only the future can answer this 
question.

---------------------------------------------------

Pa^e 28The TartanMarch 11, 1986
Reaction. ..Reaction... Reaction... Reaction... Reaction... Reaction... Reaction... Reaction... Rea
Gas Research Institute is an energy-oriented research organization funded 
by the gas consumer. We sponsor R&D programs to enhance the supply, 
distribution, and utilization of natural gas to ultimately-provide efficient, safe, 
and economical gas service to natural gas customers. Our planning group 
has the following positions available:
R&D
PUNNING
Contribute to the formulation, evaluation, and 
documentation of GRIs R&D objectives, goals, 
strategies, and budget allocation through par
ticipation in the annual planning cycle and 
preparation of the annual GRI Five-Year R&D 
m V Plan. You will provide analytical support to pronlMnl 1# B T mote integration of emerging technological, 
V w  scientific, economic, and market information 
into R&D plans and policies; and, develop and communicate information 
on the benefits of GRI R&D programs based on an evaluation of technological 
and cost goals.
TECHNICAL
Plan engineering/economic studies, and per
form in-house assessments, in conjunction 
with GRI staff and/or outside contractors, to 
A A I UQT estimate potential benefits from new gas techMIYMb V 9 I nology developments. Provide data bases and 
qo n npuppivQ computer models to support benefits analyses 
110(11 DBIlEri 19 of completed research, and prepare oral pre
sentations and written reports/articles to document work for GRI manage
ment and member organizations.
Experience in technical planning and appraisal, analytical and technical 
writing skills, and exposure to energy R&D would be beneficial. The use 
of microcomputers and/or mainframes and familiarity with Fortran, Basic or 
Pascal languages is preferred. B.S. degree in Engineering or Science re
quired, advanced technical degree a plus.
To pursue these positions, we invite you to forward resume with salary 
requirements to: L.M. HENRICKSON, Department ACM, GAS RESEARCH 
INSTITUTE, 8600 West Bryn Mawr Avenue, Chicago, IL 60631. An equal 
opportunity employer M/F/H.
Gas Research Institute
Collegiate Delivery Services, Inc.
Kosenthal (Fr. H&SS):
Animals are as much a part of this world 
as we are. but I think a lot of times people take 
it out of perspective. People have their own 
views about how animals should be used or 
treated, and I think you have to know where 
theyre coming from before you rip apart what
Glenn Cadoret (Jr., Physics):
For experimentation, I think the end justifies 
the means as long as the animals arent treated 
badly they're given food and water. As far 
as clothing, I think its a waste, especially if you 
think of the extreme brutality with the seals. 
Man is carnivorous, and I think its Fine he kills 
other animals and eats them.
Call
687-FOOD
5:00 pim. to Midnite, 7 Days a Week. 
Dorms/Fraternities/Sororities Only
Bv MERLE OXMAN & MARIE PARRETTE
Tartan Staffuriters 
The animal rights movement can be traced 
back to the writings of DesCartes. Recently, the 
movement has been called a pet cause of young 
activists. Hot topics include animal experimen
tation, vegitarianism. and the use of fur or 
leather for clothing.
Question: WHAT ARE YOUR VIEWS ON 
ANIMAL RIGHTS?
Debra Martin (Sr., English):
"In all spheres, we should move towards 
more humanitarian use of animals. We should 
minimize unnecessarv killing."
aruce rauiK (Soph, Drama):
Im a straight carnivore. Thats the way we 
were made. Fur jackets and stuff like that are 
pretty sick. Wearing animal fur is for decora
tion, not warmth.
David Steinberg (Grad, MAPW):
The problem is that people have become so 
much like animals themselves that they dont 
feel that they deserve to be served by animals.
Sclaroff (4th year, Architecture):
The issue is complicated. Certain animals 
are easier to protect than other ones. I can see 
its obnoxious to wear big pieces of fur all over 
your body, and I can see giving up meat, but 
I just cant see wearing vinyl shoes.
Your favorite 
Wendys, Arbys, 
Kentucky Fried Chicken, eta 
delivered to your dorm.
Sandy Neuman (Sr.. Mech E):
"I m from an area where theres no hunting. 
Around here, people get out of school for hun
ting season. Pleasure hunting is a sport and I 
don't think that's right. People should have con
sideration for animals. Animals support us. We 
should be nice to them while theyre alive 
because thev give us food and clothing.

---------------------------------------------------

March 11, 1986The TartanPage 29
Ask TltGO
Dear Theo:
I am a freshman, and I came to CMU to be 
an architect. Let me tell you, I wish I knew what 
I was getting into beforehand. My problem is 
that plasticine makes me sick. I cant stand the 
feel of that slimy goo in my hands! The thought 
of making another model with that stuff makes 
my thighs ache! What should I do? Hurry!
LeCorbusier
Dear Le:
In my vast experience with constructing ar
chitectural models, I have found that limiting 
your building resources to just plasticine is not 
only sickening, but very restricting. After all, 
that slimy goo is not the only the stuff you 
can use to make your piece. A number of other 
materials, including scrapple, Swiss Cheese, and 
raw eggs may be used. They are easy to han
dle, hold up well, and smell nice too.
Theo
Dear Theo:
Ive heard rumors around campus that each 
night a midnight rodeo takes place on the Cut. 
Can you tell me if this is true? If it is, who is 
in charge of this operation and how can I get 
involved?
6 A Frustrated Co who v
Dear A:
The jig is up! While the administration 
thought they could pull the wool over our eyes 
again, the student body was clever enough to 
see through their plot.
The evidence was clear enough: the manure, 
the roped off area on the Cut, the hoofprints. 
I don t really know who is in charge of this 
bovine fiasco. However, our alert Tartan 
reporters have discovered that University of
ficials have been harboring a Board of Farm 
Animals and several cattle somewhere in Wean 
Hall. That s all the information we have right 
now. If you can find out more information about 
this scandal, I'd appreciate you calling me.
Theo
Dear Theo:
My girlfriend and I had been going out for 
three years and she suddenly decided to end 
it last week. I asked her why, and the only 
reason she gave was that my toenails are too 
long. Sure, they are a bit claw-like, but I hard
ly see this as an irreconsilable problem between 
us. How can I get my sweetheart back again?
Werewolf
Dear Werewolf:
Your letter brings up an important point. I 
have noticed that, in all of the letters I have 
received, the salutation has ended in a colon 
(:). This will not do; its much too formal. If Im 
going to be any help to you at all, we have to 
relate on a friendlier basis. So, please, in all 
future letters use a comma (,) after the saluta
tion. Cut your nails.
Theo
Dear Theo,
When I was in high school, I thought that 
everything my parents told me was wrong. They 
seemed so stupid. After all, we thought so dif
ferently. They made me be home by midnight,
they wouldnt let me use the car, they criticized 
my clothes. Now that I have matured a little, I 
realize that everything they said was to help me. 
When they restricted me that way, they did it 
because they cared about me, not to hassle me.
Enlightened
Dear Enlightened,
Thats great, but you forgot to ask me a ques
tion. Im glad you have finally realized that you 
were a fool in high school, but thats not really 
a problem. The name of the column is Ash Theo, 
not Tell Theo. Get with it.
Theo
Thats all for now. Let me just say that I real
ly dont appreciate all the hate mail and Let
ters to the Editor that have been sent in. If you 
have something bad to say, say it to yourself 
and dont read my column. You think I dont 
have an ego? I want to hear problems, not 
criticism. Criticism crushes me. Direct your 
questions and good comments to the Tartan 
Features Editor in Skibo 50. Direct anything 
else to your mother, because I dont want to 
hear it.
Goodbye and good problems, 
Theo
<
N
NPIZZA PIZZA PIZZA PIZZA
N
N
>
810 IVY STREET
682-3333
_____ _ Mon.-Sat. 5 PM-1 AMFREE Delivery Sun(j0y 12 pm-12 am
We sell pizza by the slice
SPECIAL: Order $10.00 or 
more and get a coupon for 
FREE $3 Cheese Pizza
<
N
N
<a
LARGE$
PIZZA
Offer
Valid
With
Mention
Of
Ad
FREE
ter of Coke 
With Purchase 
Of Large Pizza
H
>
THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
^ WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS OF CMU 
^ REASONABLE RENTAL RATES!
^ THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND!
^ "THE FAIRFAX" ...4614 5th AVE.!
^ YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
Furnished Apts. Available
The management invites the Faculty 
Merftbers, Graduate Students & CMU 
Guests to visit and inspect our ONE 
BEDROOM & STUDIO APARTMENTS
Available for immediate occupancy
Dial 621-4030
We'll see YOU at 
"THE FAIRFAX" ...Neighbor.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 30The TartanMarch It, 1986
Form 1040EZ
Simplest form yet! If you file single, 
claim no exemptions for age or 
blindness, claim no dependents, 
your income is only from wages, 
salaries, tips and interest of $400 or 
less, and your taxable income is 
less than $50,000 you may be able 
to use the Form 1040EZ. Check 
your tax instructions for details.
residence, you know that something is working 
well.
Arnold Air Society will continue their efforts 
to help the aged through this year, and some 
of the cadets will probably continue their visiting 
and helping even through the summer, said 
AAS commander Jeff Hayes. It truly is an 
educational experience that not only gives these 
several cadets the opportunity to help others, 
but also to help themselves by teaching them r 
to be better leaders, managers, and human be
ings. Melissa Burke, their pledge trainer, summ
ed up their goals at the 1986 induction 
ceremonies held last month, by saying that, 
No, we may not be a very large group of peo
ple, and no, we may not be able to change the 
entire world, but at least we can try to make 
it a better place to live in.
Join History 
Honor Society
By KEITH UHER
Tartan Stafftvriter
Phi Alpha Theta (the History National Honor 
Society) is looking , for new members. The 
society was first chartered at CMU in the 
mid-70s, but by the early 1980s it was 
disbanded due to lack of interest. Last semester, 
at a meeting of history majors it was decided 
to revive the society.
Through the efforts of Professor Eugene Levy 
and some interested students, Phi Alpha Theta 
is back in business. The society has had two 
meetings this semester. At the first meeting, 
Diane Melamid was elected president and 
membership applications were passed out. 
Members decided on a variety of activities to 
take part in.
One project that has quickly come to fruition 
is the setting up of a display on the first floor 
of Hunt Library. Michael Sullivan, with the aid 
of other members, set up a display on Bolivian 
Indian clothing. The display is from a collec- 1 
tion put together by Professor Erik Langer. The 
clothing: ponchos, sandals, belts, chuspa, 
shirts, a helmet, some dolls and a hair braid 
piece come from Tarabuco and Potolo located 
in Southern Bolivia. The collection will be on 
display until March 15.
Phi Alpha Theta also plans to develop intern
ships with local companies and institutions. The 
society also expects to host films and guest 
speakers.
Members need not be history majors. The on
ly requirements are having taken thirty-six units 
in history (and maintained a 3.00 grade average 
in them) and have an overall 3.00 QPA. Initia
tion fee is twenty dollars.
The next meeting is Tuesday, March 18, at 
5:00 p.m. in the H&SS lounge (BH 254C). All 
interested students who meet the requirements 
are invited. Pizza and pop will be served.
Arnold Air Society Cares for elderly
Bv ALBRECHT T. POWELL  J
Tartan Production Manager
The elderly, alone and unwanted, living in 
nursing homes and retirement villages, are not 
commonly thought of by most college students 
of today. A small group of intrepid young men 
and women want to show that the elderly have 
alot to offer and that the young have only alot 
to learn. The Arnold Air Society, a fraternal ser
vice organization of the United States Air Force, 
has undertaken as their national project a na
tionwide attempt to let the elderly know that 
there are people who care.
The Arnold Air Society (AAS), is a profes
sional, honorary service organization associated 
with the U.S. Air Force and AFROTC with a 
small but strong squadron at Carnegie Mellon. 
Their primary goals are: 1) to create a more ef
ficient relationship among Air Force officer can
didates, 2) to aid in the development of effec
tive Officers, 3) to further the purpose, tradi
tions, and concepts of the USAF. They ac
complish this by providing opportunities for 
greater interaction among officer candidates and 
increased communication with AF officers, op
portunities to gain additional leadership and 
management experience and opportunities for 
members to participate in campus and com
munity service projects.
This is accomplished in a two-fold strategy. 
The first is training and instruction. Each 
semester, several cadets from the AFROTC 
cadet corps undergo an intensive pledge pro
gram designed to insure only quality people 
entering the AAS squadron. The program con
sists of eight weeks of lessons, drills, inspections, 
and projects. This year, some of the pledge pro
jects included a t-shirt sale and a large three 
board mural in Gregg Hall promoting the Air 
Force.
Holding weekly meetings, the AAS squadron, 
after attaining to normal organizational business, 
always finds some unique method for instruc
ting its personnel and promoting its mission. It 
may range from an RF-4 pilots talk on what 
it is like flying at Mach 1 only a few hundred 
feet off the ground taking reconassence photos, 
to Air Force training films on the latest advances 
in missile or flight technology, or perhaps drill 
and ceremonies to make this group of cadets 
shine on the parade ground.
Their other primary goal, that of campus and 
community service, is evident in their strong 
desire to help others. This year, Carnegie 
Mellons AAS squadron has undertaken the na
tional project of helping the elderly. They are 
involved in Generations Together, an organiza
tion devoted to bringing youth and the aged 
together.
They currently work several hours a week 
visiting elderly people in a type of nursing home. 
Although somewhat apprehensive at the thought 
of trying to communicate with and deal with 
people four times their age, many of whom are 
hard of hearing, the cadets seemed to view their 
experiences as one of enjoyable and educa
tional. They found that some of the older peo
ple they visited had not been visited in months 
or even years. Lonliness was a big problem, as 
was the waiting for something to do. Their 
greatest excitement was standing up and walk
ing to the dinnertable at mealtimes. The cadet 
visitors really brightened their days and helped 
to make life more bearable.
The old are many times forgotten pieces of 
art, blended into the mural of time. In fact, these 
people are not only to be respected, but also 
have a wealth of information and knowledge to 
offer. To see the tears of joy of a 90 year old 
woman who cannot see or hear just because you 
came up to her and held her hand can cause 
a young teenager to realize how lucky they really 
are. When you see smiles on peoples faces who 
havent smiled for months just because they 
know there is someone outside their confined
Round trip. Anywhere we go.
This Spring Break, if you and your friends 
are thinking about heading to the slopes, the 
beach or just home for a visit, Greyhound1 can 
take you there. For only $99 or less, round trip.
From February 15 through April 27, all you 
do is show us your college student I.D. card 
when you purchase your ticket. Your ticket will
then be good for travel for 15 days from the date 
of purchase.
So this Spring Break, get a real break.
Go anywhere Greyhound goes for $99 or less. 
For more information, call Greyhound.
Mun promt a vibd cotte* Mudeni I D card upon purchaar No her ducoums apply Ticketiare
nd good (  '   -------------" ---------------------------------------------------
Onntfl
nontransfcrabir and good for travel on Greyhound Une, Inc . and other participating earners Certain 
rettncuoru apply oScreffectivt2/15/16 Ofelmmed NotvabdmCanada
_ __ T GREYHOUND
"And leave the driving to us!
11th St. & Liberty Ave., 391-2300
C 1986 Greyhound Lines, Inc
A PUBLIC SERVICE MESSAGE FROM THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE

---------------------------------------------------

March 11, 1986The TartanPage 31
Wolverines host tourney...
Soccer squad returns from Grove City defeated
By JAMIE RUFFING
Special to The Tartan
Traveling to the Grove'City Indoor Soccer 
Tournament last Saturday, was the Mens Var
sity Soccer Team. By the end of the afternoon, 
the squad had garnered a disappointing 1-2-2 
record, missing the tourney play-offs.
 The first game pitted the Tartans against 
Allegheny College. Freshman defender Mark 
Zoldi opened the scoring at the 2:00 mark, as 
he took a pass from sophomore goalie John 
Semler, and went in on a breakaway, beating 
the keeper low. The lead was short-lived, 
however, as a few minutes later a Tartan give
away at the midfield line resulted in a blast,
The score remained at 1-1 through the re
mainder of the period, as Carnegie Mellon miss
ed many opportunities. About 1:45 into the se
cond half, Carnegie Mellon got caught standing, 
as Allegheny hit the right post, got the rebound, 
hit the cross-bar, got the rebound again, and 
finally scored.
The Tartans came right back as junior co
captain Doug Anderson stole the ball in 
I Alleghenys end, and fed a pass to Zoldi in front 
I of the net. Zoldis heel shot hit the post, but
 Anderson was there to touch in the rebound,
I tying the game up again.
With 2:30 to play, another Tartan error led 
i to a 3-on-l advantage for Allegheny. A quick 
M cross and shot, and the team found itself down, 
I 3-2. Twenty seconds later, standout Alex 
I Tomlinson gave freshman Bob Stefanowicz a 
I pass that the freshman turned into a shot, 
beating the goalie at the far post, tying the match 
for the final time. 
Another disappointment occurred in the 
game, as All-Regional performer Kevin Jung 
twisted his ankle, limiting his play for the re
mainder of the games.
In the next contest, the team played 
uninspired ball, and lost to California State of 
Pennsylvania, 3-2. California scored first on a 
Tartan defender give-away. By the end of the 
rather uneventful first half, the Tartans had tied 
it up on a steal by sophomore forward Alan 
Mayr, followed by a quick cross to Scott Lyon, 
and a goal off the rebound of his (Lyon) original 
shot.
The second half started with both teams 
unable to gain the advantage, but at the six 
minute mark, a miscommunication and poor 
back pass resulted in Carnegie Mellon scoring 
on itself, giving California a 2-1 advantage, 
a The team got the goal back as a bad pass by 
the opposing goalie was stolen by Stefanowicz, 
"ho shot wide. The rebound off the wall bounc
ed right to Anderson whose shot tied the game 
at two apiece. The game-winner came with 
about 2:30 left, California broke up the court, 
3-on-2. The initial shot was blocked by a Tar
tan defender, but the rebound rolled to another 
California player whose shot sealed the match.
The third contest matched Carnegie Mellon 
against Indiana University of Pennsylvania, and 
^)nce again, the squad dropped a close game, 
2-1. The first half saw both teams play good 
defense as neither squad was able to break in
to the scoring column, until IUP converted an 
PP0rtunity with three seconds left in the half.
Carnegie Mellon tried to fight back as netminder Semler made a couple of good saves on 
some early IUP scoring threats, and standout 
Lyon hit the post after a steal. IUP. however,
i
managed to score the eventual game-winner 
with 4:50 to go as a 3-on-2, crossing pass that 
was converted into a 2-0 lead.
Carnegie Mellon made it interesting at the end 
as Mayr turned a bad goal kick into a tally when 
he blasted a shot past the IUP keeper, but time 
ran out before the Tartans could score again.
The Tartans next game pitted them against 
the inspired home team. The first stanza saw 
Carnegie Mellon control much of the action in 
the early going. Lyon, Anderson, and Mayr 
missed a number of scoring chances. Zoldi hit 
a shot under the fallen Wolverine keeper.
Carnegie Mellon took the 1-0 lead in to the 
second half and 1:10 into the period, a steal
the Tartans a 2-0 lead. A minute later, a pass 
to the middle was taken and knocked into the 
upper corner bringing the host team back within 
a goal.
Each team took turns setting up scoring 
chances, but the game remained at 2-1, the Tar
tans leading, until, with 1:30 to go in the game, 
Lyon was blatently tripped in form of his own 
net, losing the ball as he fell, allowing Grove 
City to score.
the cross-bar causing the ball to bounce straight 
down to the goal-line, but a great husde by Mayr 
saved the tie, as the sophomore star dove into 
the goal and kicked the ball clear of the line.
The final competition for Carnegie Mellon was 
Pitt-Bradford, and once again, the Tartans 
played down to the level of their adversaries. 
The contest started as if it was going to be a 
blow-out, as Anderson took a pass form Zoldi 
and scored, 50 seconds into the game. The 
team got sloppy, and halfway through the 
period, Pitt tied the game on a rebound off 
Semlers initial save.
The second stanza again saw the Tartans
Predictions
continued from page 34
Philadelphia tried to bolster that staff in the 
offseason, but they traded one of the leagues 
best catchers for Steve Bedrosian, who was 
13-15 with a 3.83 era last year. Granted Bedro
sian should bounce back, but his supporting 
cast is thin. Kevin Gross had a 15-13 record 
last year to lead the staff, and he received help 
from Shane Rawley, who was 13-8. But neither 
are Steve Carlton, and the rest of the starting 
staff is a question mark. Speaking of Carlton, 
hes trying yet another comeback, and that 
could be the miracle that saves the Phils. But 
dont bet on it.
Former Bucco Kent Tekulve led the bullpen 
with 14 saves and looks to be about finished. 
Don Carman was the second man with seven.
The brightest spot on the team is veteran Mike 
Schmidt, who appears to have adapted well 
to first base. The Phils can expect 30 home runs
struggling against a much weaker opponent, as 
Pitt scored first at the 5:00 mark from a 
counter-attack on a 2-1 break. However, with 
two minutes to go in the game, Semler and Zoldi 
teamed up as they had earlier, in the tourney 
to score the tying goal.
Semler threw a lead pass to Zoldi who miss
ed the original shot, but got his rebound and 
beat the goalie.
The Tartans saved face with 50 seconds left 
as Zoldi stole the ball and shot. The Grove City 
keeper made the save, but Anderson was there 
for the rebound, giving Carnegie Mellon a 3-2 
victory.
and 90 rbi from him. Also starring in the in
field is Juan Samuel, who scored over 100 runs 
and stole over 50 bases. Rick Schu, who replac
ed Schmidt at third base, has yet to blossom.
>He has good range, but hit only .252 with 
negligible power, much less than expected.
In the outfield, look for Glen Wilson and a 
cast of thousands. Wilson earned a spot with 
102 rbis last year, but has precious little help. 
Gary Redus, obtained from Cincinnati, hit on
ly .252 last year, and regular Von Hayes didnt 
do much better at .263. Jeff Stone, 
Philadelphias great white hope in the outfield, 
can be written off as a flop.
In total. Schmidt and Samuel, with help from 
Wilson, cannot carry this club. The pitching is 
too weak, the supporting cast too thin, for 
Philadelphia to go anywhere but to the bottom 
this year.
With less than a minute to go, the hosts hit
GET YOUR CAREER MOVING IN THE
\l/GENERAL
COMPUTER
215 First Street Cambridge, MA 02142.
Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Page 32The TartanMarch 11, 1986
Penguins, Spirit battle for playoff spots
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
For the first time in a long while, Pittsburgh 
fans are checking the sports pages daily to see 
now their hometown teams figure in the...gasp, 
playoff picture.
Both the Spirit and the Penguins are in the 
thick of vicious fights for post-season spots, and 
if one made it, it would be the first time play 
didn't end with the regular season at the Civic 
Arena since the Spirit fell to archrival Cleveland 
in 1984. The last time the Penguins made it 
was to the preliminary round in 1982 versus 
the soon to be Stanley Cup champion New York 
Islanders.
The Penguins appear to have the better 
chance. They are currently in fourth place in 
the Patrick division, three points behind the 
once-mighty Islanders and three points ahead 
of the Rangers. Pittsburgh is thus caught in a 
New York Sandwich, with the Penguins pro
viding the meat in the middle.
The rest of the season wont be easy for Pitt
sburgh. They face off against the hottest team 
in hockey, the Washington Capitals, in 
Washington tonight, and return home to face
APRIL
1WASvm
2NYI345PHI
I "I
789101112
?
 Home
games I ' I
Penguins Schedule
Away
games
the Bruins tomorrow evening. The rest of the 
seasons opponents looks like a virtual Whos 
who in the NHL playoffs, with teams such as 
Edmonton, Montreal, and two doses of the 
Flyers awaiting the Pens. Even the last place 
Devils have won four home games in a row, and 
they wait for Pittsburgh next Wednesday in New 
Jersey.
Playoff tickets will go one sale at the Civic 
Arena at 9 am on March 25, when most of the 
campus will be away on break. They will face 
either Washington or Philadelphia in the first 
round, which begins April 9, the day after the 
Pirates open. The preferred opponent right now 
would be Philadelphia. Even though the Flyers 
lead the division, they have been playing poor 
hockey, while the red-hot Capitals have
destroyed the Islanders two games in a row.
What the Penguins need now is a hot streak 
to put some distance between themselves and 
the Rangers, so the team can relax and prepare 
itself for the playoffs. Their three game homestand next week is a key period, and some big 
wins would help relax the team immensely. Dur
ing their last stretch of home games, blowouts 
occurred with amazing regularity. Coach Bob 
Berry remarked that the team could keep scor
ing until we get tired of chili, a reference to 
the Wendys giveaway if the team scores over
7 goals in a game.
The Spirit could use some chili games, too. 
The playoff picture isnt as clear for Pittsburgh 
soccer team. The are currently a game behind 
the Dallas Sidekicks and reside in fifth place
CUSTOMER INFORMATION FROM GENERAL MOTORS
HOW TO AVOID THE DANGERS 
OF COUNTERFEIT AUTO FARTS
INFERIOR PARTS COULD THREATEN YOUR SAFETY
Today, a counterfeiter no longer has to print phony twenty-dollar bills. Selling imitation automotive replacement partspackaged to resemble products from legitimate manufacturersis big business.For people who buy and use counterfeit auto parts, though, the consequences can be costly. Forexample, body panels may require expensive labor to bring their finish quality up to the rest of the car. Bogus oil filters have failed after 200 miles, causing unprotected engines to seize up, requiring their complete replacement.Inferior transmission fluid has solidified at 0 Fahrenheit, ruining transmissions. And counterfeit antifreeze has eaten right through aluminum parts.The failure can be safety-related. A fatal 1985 bus accident in Britain was attributed to the installation of counterfeit brake parts. Ill- fitting counterfeit gas caps can fall off, increasing the risk of a fire in a roll-over accident.
Heres how to make sure you receive parts that are made to work best in your GM car. Your most reliable source is your GM dealer. He can supply any part for your GM car or truck. Buying popular brand parts from reputable stores or garages is another way to improve your chances of getting the right part. But wherever you buy, be suspicious of discounts that seem too good to be true.Some tip-offs that a part might be counterfeit:Flimsy packaging.Lack of name-brand identification such as AC-Delco.Look-alike graphics or a change in the spelling of a recognized trade name. In this way counterfeiters can avoid prosecution under the 1984 Trademark Counterfeiting Law. So examine the package carefully.If a replacement part doesnt fit easily, you should probably return it. A reputable distributor will almost certainly give you a refund or credit.General Motors is taking strong measures in the U.S. and overseas to put a stop to parts counterfeiting. GM is trying to stop the problem at its source.
So far weve helped U.S. marshals confiscate parts in raids on 29 counterfeiting operations. Another eight operations have been uncovered and prosecuted in foreign countries.GM is also developing a hologram identification device, much like those becoming popular on credit cards, to improve security in our parts distribution.After all, General Motors has a tremendous investment in GM parts that work together to give our customers safe, reliable cars and trucks. We want our customers to be confident they can maintain their GM vehicles at the same level of high quality we build them.
This advertisement is part of 
our continuing effort to give 
customers useful information 
about their cars and trucks 
and the company that builds 
them.
Chevrolet  Pontiac Oldsmobile  Buick Cadillac  GMC Truck
of the MISLs Eastern division. The top four 
teams in each division make the playoffs, so 
some improvement is necessary.
The big problem for the Spirit is their inability 
to win on the road. They are winless on their 
current road trip, which ends Tuesday in 
Wichita, where they have never won. They 
return home on Thursday to face LA and op
pose the Chicago Sting on Saturday. The games 
are must-win, as the team again will take to the 
road in a week.
Pittsburgh tried to get some playoff insurance 
by picking up veteran forward Yilmaz Orhan 
from the Baltimore Blast. The move was made 
possible by the sale of excess goaltender Peter 
Mowlik to the Tacoma Stars. Orhan, the seventh 
leading scorer in MISL history, has had little 
success for the Blast this year, but worked well 
under Spirit head coach Don Popovic in Las 
Vegas last year. Forward was a position where 
the Spirit were especially weak, and Orhan looks 
to be a valuable addition if he can break out 
of his scoring slump. 
The Spirit have already put 10 game 
packages on sale for the playoffs. The $100 
combo is for sections A and B is a savings of 
$30 over the regular price.
ARENA NOTES - There was mixed news this 
week for Pittsburgh fans when it came to Arena 
ticket prices. The Penguins announced that all 
prices would be raised a dollar, making the 
cheapest seat $9. Arena Vice President Paul 
Martha called the move necessary to remain 
competitive. The Pens are expected to lose 
over a million dollars this year.
The fiscal results are the same for the Spirit, 
but the team is holding the line on the ticket 
prices of $13, $11, and $8. GM Chris Wright 
said the move was an effort to maintain the 
loyal fan base we have established over the 
vears.
WEBSTER HALL
Webster Hall Apartments 
Finest High Rise In 
Oaklands Cultural Center 
EFF. 1-2 BR
Your suite includes: -Heat, A/C, fully 
equipped kitchens,w/w carpeting, 
spacious closets.
Cable TV available 
Off street covered parking available 
Limo & bus at door 
Resident storage space 
Furnished units available 
Weekdays Weekends
9-5 621-4132 124
Reform Havura MeetingjGuest: Sheli Bern
stein, U.A.H.V. College Educ. Dep't: 
Discussion on future of liberal Jewish pro
grams on campus: 8:00 P.M. Tues. March 
11
Skibo Room 12, 2nd floor 
RSVP: 621-8875
Thurs. March 13: 5:00 P.M. MORRISONS:
Rabbi Joe Levine informal discussion: 
"What's Basic About Judaism?"  
Responses to Students' Questions.
Friday Shabbat Program: March 14: After 
Shabbat dinner at Hillel (315 S. Bellfield)-*- 
guest speaker will be Jon Rothman, 
American Zionist Youth Foundation on pro
grams for students in Israel.
RSVP: 621-8875
>

---------------------------------------------------

March 11, 1986The TartanPage 33
Atlantic Coast college basketball round-up
iBY JAY KATZ
Tartan Staffwriter
In last years NCAA basketball tournament, 
the Big East conference placed three teams in 
the final four, Georgetown, St. Johns, and 
NCAA champ Villanova. It appears that the 
Atlantic Coast conference is capable of doing 
the same this seasonNorth Carolina, Duke and 
Georgia Tech are ranked within the top ten.
North Carolina, for much of the season was 
ranked by the Associated Press poll as the top 
team in the country, is now ranked fourth due 
to recent losses to Maryland, North Carolina 
State, and Duke. The Tar Heels, through scor
ing an average of 90 points a game while 
yielding but 66 points each contest have ac
cumulated a record of 26 wins, four losses. This 
team also shoots baskets at a success rate of 58 
percent, tops in the nation.
Featured on this team are three potential AllAmericans. Point guard Kenny Smith, Steve 
Hale, and Brad Daugherty average 12 points 
and six assists per game. Steve Hale, the finest 
defensive player on the squad, adds 11 points 
and five assists in each contest. Brad Daugher
ty, considered to be amongst the best big men 
in collegiate basketball, at 6 11, contributes
20 points and nine rebounds in each game and 
shoots field goals successfully in 64 percent of 
his attempts.
Georgia Tech, not too long ago a doormat of 
the Conference, has moved up into the national 
spotlightin the preseason polls, they were 
ranked as the best team in the country. The 
Yellow Jackets are now ranked sixth in the 
country with a record of 23 wins, five losses. 
Similar to North Carolina, Georgia Tech 
possesses several hot shooters who convert on 
55 percent of their shot attempts, which enables 
them to outscore opponents by nearly 14 points
PARTS 
REPAIRS 
ACCESSORIES 
PICK-UP RETURN 
USED "CWPUS CRUISERS' 
751-5604
Summer or Fall 1986 
Summer 1987
WASHINGTON
ORLONDON
INTERNSHIPS
SUMMER SESSION ONLY
at Wadham College 
of the University of
OXFORD
Accredited courses in government, economics, journalism and prelaw by an outstanding faculty.
Full Academic Year Programs at the London School of Economics, St. Andrews Universities, for Qualified Juniors and Seniors.
All credits transferred through Hampden-Sydney College, Virginia 
(Founded in 1776) 
Inquiries to:Mrs. Janet Kollek, J.D. Admissions Director The Washington International 
Studies Center 212-724-0804 or 0136 
(EO/AA)
a game.
A strong starting lineup characterizes the 
teams chances at winning the mythical National 
Championship. Senior guard Mark Price leads 
the attack with 17 points per game. Seven foot 
center John Salley, another one of the premier 
big men in college basketball, adds 13 points 
and seven rebounds in each game. Freshman 
Tom Hammonds has filled the big forward posi
tion in grand fashion, averaging almost 14 
points and seven rebounds each game.
The team in the Conference currently with the 
most momentum is Duke. The Blue Devils had 
perhaps the best season in their history, with 
a 16 game winning streak and the 29 total wins 
setting new school records. Currently, Duke is 
rated by the AP poll as the top team in the na
tion. The team averages over 80 points per 
game and a winning margin of 15 points. 
Recently, the Blue Devils defeated the Tar 
Heels, 82-74 to clinch their first undisputed 
ACC title in 20 years.
The Duke starting lineup features four seniors
and one junior. Senior guard Johnny Dawkins, 
Dukes all-time leading scorer, leads the Blue 
Devil attack with 19 points per game. Mark 
Allaire, a senior forward, is averaging 18 points 
and six rebounds a game. Remarkably, Dawkins 
and Allaire have never missed a start in their 
124 game careers.
Virginia (18 wins, nine losses), North Carolina
State (18-11), and Maryland (17-12) have 
strong teams and have all beaten North Carolina 
this season. All have teams that are considered 
by the experts to be among the top 40 teams 
in Division I basketball. But these teams rely 
on consistent performances from their top stars 
and are not as well rounded as North Carolina, 
Georgia Tech, and Duke.
Lacrosse club opens season
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
Carnegie Mellons lacrosse club opened its 
season on a distinctive note by demolishing the 
Pitt Panthers 20-0. It was the first shutout ever 
for goalie Tom Gilmore, and the first in the 
teams history.
Gilmore got help from defenders Dan Cohen 
and Mitch Weintraub, as the pair waylaid the 
Pitt attackers and prevented Gilmore from fac
ing many shots.
Sophomore Bill Heiser scored the first goal 
less than a minute into the contest, paving the 
way for a completely domintaing CMU offense. 
Roy Teresky, a junior, led the offense with five 
goals and a pair of assists, while Heiser and 
Scott Jahnson each had three. Merrice Spenser 
had six points on the day, four assists and two 
goals. The other two goal scorers were John 
Richert and John Rertzepis.
The team s next home game will be against 
St. Vincents College next Sunday on the IM 
field.
Lay it on the line.
Ask anv Navy pilot. It doesn't come 
anv more thrilling than this. Landing 
an F-14 on the rolling deck of a carrier 
at sea is a challenge that tests the skills 
of the best.
Navy flight training. Navigation. 
Aerodvnamics. It's the best you 
can get. But along with the airborne
thrills. Navy pilots and flight olficers 
get down-to-earth skills.
There is no boot camp. College
graduates get leadership and manage- to move up last
You can't beat the rewards either. 
An excellent starting salary.
Unexcelled benefits. And opportunity
ment training at Aviation Officer 
Candidate School. It's challenge and 
responsibility. The satisfaction ol 
knowing you're with a topflight team.
Lead the Adventure as a Navy pilot 
or flight officer. And let your pride 
ilv high.'Contact your Nav\ Officer 
Recruiter or call 1-X00-327-NAYY.
NAVY - OFFICER.
y.gr.sa.gaaaaasKBocraggsgttaiiiscCTTcsBsttTrKisra
LEAD THE ADVENTURE.

---------------------------------------------------

Pa^e 34The TartanMarch 11, 1986
National League East Preview
O
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
The NL East is the place to come for the best 
baseball of 1985. The division has the best 
speed and pitching in the major leagues, and 
isn't shy in the slugging department either. The 
division has had the NL Cy Young winner and 
Most Valuable Player for the last two years, and 
might well again this year. But no team has a 
lock on the division. The Mets are the early 
favorites, but the Cards made it to the world 
series last year. The Montreal youth movement 
may be about to blossom, while the Cubs are 
poised for a resurgence. The Phillies look to be 
a long shot, while Pittsburgh has no place to 
go but up.
NEW YOBKJust like last year, the Mets can't 
lose. But last year was The Year of The Car
dinals. Preceded by The Year of The Cubs. 
That left New York with two very good second 
place finishes. That doesn't seem to be the case 
this year, as the Mets look too solid to be 
toppled.
The pitching staff is a prime example of that 
depth. Gooden led the world last year, and is 
expected to extend that dominance this year. 
But behind him are Bon Darling (16-6, 2.90 
era), Sid Fernandez (2.80 ear, 180 k's), Bick 
Aguilera, and Ed Lynch. But the offseason ac
quisition of Bob Ojeda from the Bosox gives 
them lefthanded depth and leaves no room for 
newcomers Bandy Myers and Kyle Hartshorn 
(17-9, 1.69 era at Lynchburg).
The bullpen is slightly suspect. Both Jesse 
Orosco and Doug Sisk had off years, with Sisk 
questionable this season after surgery. But they 
should be buttressed by Boger McDowell, who 
turned in an excellent rookie year as a replace
ment stopper and garnered 17 saves. Tom Gor
man will be the long man, with occasional help 
from Ojeda and perhaps Lynch.
Offensively, New York has one of the most 
fearsome middle lineup combos. Keith Her
nandez (.309, 91 rbi) is one of the best 3rd 
spot hitters in the majors, and is followed by 
Gary Carter (32 hr, 100 rbi), young star Dar
ryl Strawberry' (29 hr), and an declining but still 
potent George Foster. The table should be set 
for that group by a speedy Mookie Wilson or 
Len Dykstra, a fleetfooted second-year out
fielder who many teams tried unsuccessfully to 
pry away, plus either Wally Backman or Tim 
Teufel.
The infield was strengthened in the offseason 
with the acquisition of Tim Teufel from the 
Twins, who will platoon with Wally Backman 
at second base. Bafael Santana is an underrated 
defensive gem at shortstop, but the backups 
behind him are thin. At third, look for the Bay 
Knight - Howard Johnson combo to be tried 
again, but if Knight doesnt hit, Johnson may 
assume the duties alone.
The main question marks appear to be what 
ifs. New York is a solid as any team in the 
league, but who will replace Gary Carter if his 
knees suddenly give out? What if the bullpen 
self destructs? What happens if the infield is 
decimated by injuries? These are the questions 
manager Davey Johnson should address. But 
given their rich farm system and surplus pit
chers as possible trade bait, the Mets should 
end their thirteen year postseason drought.
MONTREALIts time for the Expos trades and 
youngsters to start showing some dividends.
Aided by a good crop of home-grown kiddies, 
plus some hot ones obtained in trades, these 
chronic underachievers team should do nothing 
but improve in 1986.
One of the Expos high points is their infield. 
Third baseman Tim Wallach is arguably an allstar, although he had an average year with 22 
homers and 81 rbis. Hubie Brooks, the key 
in the Gary Carter trade with the Mets, hit .269 
and knocked in an even 100 runs, the best of
fensive performance by a shortstop in the 
league. Vance Law also adds offense at second
e*
expos
base, providing 10 home runs and batting in 
52.
Tim Baines is the glue in the outfield. He had 
a career year last season, batting .320 with 60 
extra-base hits. He is complemented by Andre 
Dawson, whose 23 homers and 91 runs batted 
in should remain in Canada next year, despite 
trade rumors.
The best part of Montreals pitching is bullpen 
ace Jeff Beardon. He posted 41 saves and an 
3.18 era as he held together the pitching staff. 
That isn't to say the starting pitching is weak, 
though. The starters, even without ace Charlie 
Lea. who will be out for yet another season. 
Bryn Smith emerged as an gem, running up an 
18-5 record. Joe Hesketh was 10-5, and should 
be better if he overcomes elbow problems. 
Floyd Youmans is a youthful bright spot. Ob
tained in the Carter trade, he was 4-3, with a 
2.45 era in a brief trial last year. Look for him 
in the starting rotation. The Expos are without 
veteran Bill Gullickson, who they dealt to Cin
cinnati, but they obtained Bull Stuper, Jay 
Tibbs, and Andy McGaffigan, adding needed 
depth.
In order for Montreal to give the Mets a run 
for their money, questions again must be resolv
ed. Manager Buck Bodgers needs to find an 
every day rightfielder to go with Baines and 
Dawson. He needs more production out of the 
first base spot. Also, a settled and effective star
ting rotation is a must, or Montreal will be out 
of the running before the race starts.
CHICAGOThe Cubbies reverted to old form 
last year after fulfilling their Destiny role in 
1984. Not that it was all their fault. The pit
ching stars spent more time in the hospital than 
the mound, and the starting rotation had a 
definite Triple-A feel.
The pitching staff is what will keep this club 
afloat. The heart of the rotation Bick Sutcliffe, 
Scott Sanderson, and Steve Trout, all appeared
in less than 25 games apiece in 1985, but all 
are supposedly now healthy. The will be aided 
by veteran Dennis Eckersley and Lary 
Sorensen, who had a disappointing year after 
being signed as a free agent. Believer Lee Smith 
was one pitcher who was in 1984 form last year, 
and notched 33 saves. He does need some help 
out of the pen, especially in the middle innings.
The offensive outlook is mixed. Second 
baseman Bvne Sandberg had another excellent 
season, batting over .300 with 26 home runs, 
and should continue on that pace. Keith 
Moreland did him one better, boasting a .307
batting average and 106 runs batted in, fourth 
in the league. But Bon Cey appears to be at the 
end of his career, hitting only .232 while play
ing a marginal third base. Jody Davis also had 
a big drop in production last year, but he still 
ranks in the upper echelon of NL catchers. Jerry 
Mumphrey was added over the winter to bolster 
the outfield, and might be part of a potent com
bination if speedy Bob Dernier can turn in a 
full season without injury.
The Cubbies need some replacement parts, 
and have already added some. Shawon Dunston 
replaced Larry Bowa at shortstop, but did not 
fulfill expectations. Yet, he is still very young 
and should start this season. Davy Lopes turn
ed in an amazing year at age 39, but how long 
can he keep it up? Chicago had better have so
meone ready to step in. Ditto for third base.
The key for Chicago is a combination of com
ebacks. The starters must be healthy and ALL 
stay healthy. Jody Davis and Leon Durham have 
to rebound, and the left side of the infield must 
provide some offensive punch if the heroics of 
1984 are to be duplicated. Otherwise, its a long, 
hot summer.
ST. LOUISThought Id forgotten about them, 
huh? Not quite. After all, they did come within 
one game of winning the world series last year. 
But the theory on the Cards this year is the big
ger they come, the harder they fall.
Pitching will be the downfall of St. Louis. Say
They appear to have a quality crop of 
youngsters, which if combined with a properly 
culled group of veterans (read as no druggies), 
which could improve the Buccos substantially.
Prospects rule the outfield. Joe Orsulak was 
a valuable rookie last year who got lost in the 
Vince Coleman/Tom Browning celebration. Joe 
was the only rookie regular to hit .300 last yeaiQ 
although he rates a zero in the power depart
ment. Mike Brown, filched from the Angels in 
Pittsburghs salary purge, hit an impressive 
.332 in 57 games, although he had a bare five 
homers. B.J. Beynolds hit .282 with LA and
PIRATES
good bye to Joaquin Andujars 21 winshes 
in Oakland. John Tudor will not come anywhere 
close to the unconscious 21-8 , 1.93 era season 
he whipped up last yearlook for him to fall 
to .500. Danny Cox offers a ray of hope, but 
he is bothered by a tender elbow and may not 
be a workhorse. The bullpens hopes lie on 
Todd Worrell, a rookie who blazed into the pic
ture late last season, and Jeff Lahti, Bruce Sut
ter's former set-up man. But St. Louis needs 
pitching depth. Perhaps there might be a place 
for Bick Bhoden, who wants out of Pittsburgh.
The outfield is the Cardinals strength. The 
fleet-footed pair of Willie McGee and Vince Col
eman should burn up the basepaths for the Redbirds, and will be even more potent if an every
day right fielder can be found. But there is the 
question of Colemans Encounter With the 
Tarp before the World Series and whether that 
injury is healed. Also, can McGee duplicate his 
MVP season when he is needed most?
Around the horn, Ozzie Smith is the straw that 
stirs the drink. His fielding antics provide con
fidence between Terry Pendelton, who hit a 
bare .240 at third last year, and keystone sacker 
Tom Herr. Herr is also a question mark, as his 
.302 average and 110 rbis were considerably 
better than he has done before. Expect good 
things out of Jack Clark, though, as he finally 
put together the season people have been 
expecting.
So what is the verdict? Simply put, last year 
was a combination of players playing over their 
heads or having career years. Whitey Herzog 
didnt help himself much by standing pat in the 
offseason. He did acquire a catcher, Mike Heath 
from Oakland, but gave up too much in Joa
quin Andujar. There are some legitimate stars 
on this team, like Clark and McGee, but they 
wont be enough to stem the tide of mediocrity.
PITTSBURGHIts been a long time since this 
club has been picked for anywhere but last 
place, but it is time for the Pirates to move up.
Pittsburgh, and is a candidate for a regular job. 
Steve Kemp will apparently remain with the 
team another year as manager Jim Leyland 
thinks he can rebound from a disastrous 1985. 
Look for Sixto Lezcano to be history.
Second baseman Johnny Ray and catcher 
Tony Pena hold together the infield. Ray led 
the team in five offensive categories and is a 
first class fielder, while Pena is a team leader 
and a premier defensive catcher. Look for Perr^ 
to improve his RBI total in 1986 as more peo
ple get on base in front of him. Sammy Khalifa, 
last years regular, and Johnny LeMaster, a 
former Giant, are battling it out for the short
stop position, with Khalifa given the edge due 
to his superior bat. Veteran utility man Bill 
Almon should also see some playing time.
A similar fight is occurring for the first base 
job, as incumbent Jason Thompson is trying to 
resist the incursions of ex-Dodger prospect Sid 
Bream. Bream may win the job on the basis of 
youth and cost alone (Thompson is paid almost 
1 million a year). Manager Jim Leyland may 
not be able to take both north with him as he 
is constrained by the new 24 man roster.
Pitching is the key question mark Veteran 
Rich Reuschel, whose promotion from Hawaii 
was GM Pete Petersons last official act before 
getting the axe, was the only saving grace last 
year. The Pirates would love another 14-8 
season out of the 37 year old vet. Jose DeLeon 
had a season to forget last year, going a putrid 
2-18, but should remain in the starting rotation 
due to his potential and strong arm. The res3 
of the rotation is a question mark. Rick Rhoden 
will most likely be gone by the end of spring 
training, and his trade could be the source of 
another solid hurler. In the bullpen, Pat 
Clements demonstrated a strong arm and some 
skill despite bad luck, and may emerge as the 
new stopper.
In order for the Buccos to move out from the 
cellar, they need continued good performances 
from their youngsters. Without the kids power
ing the team, Americas #1 city will have a sixthplace team.
PHILADELPHIAThe Phillies are a prime 
example of a botched youth movement. The
pkttlier
team is a combination of aging stars, mediocre 
veterans, and dubious prospects. What makes 
Philadelphias chances even more dismal is the 
horrid state of the pitching staff.
continued on page 31
American League and Pirate Preview April 8

---------------------------------------------------

March 11, 1986The TartanPage 35
ntramural Report...
olfpack, Stammers, Pilam cop top IM hoop slots
JILL DORSON
rtan Sports Editor
ulling out a close victory, Thursday night in 
main gym, the ATO Wolfpack garnered the 
t place trophy in the Majors League beating 
Bruise Brothers, 51-47. The Alabama Slamrs had a convincing 38-28 win over Betas 
ooglin Five to top the Intermediate Division, 
d Pilarn crushed KDR 38-20 to earn the top 
nors in the Minors league.
The first tip-off of the evening was at 7:00 
in., as the Alabama Slammers started on the 
d to victory. The Slammers Dane Basile netthe most points in the game, dropping in 
while Dan Serraro had five buckets for the 
ers.
The Slammers came out to a fast lead, as they 
tscored their opponents by 10 points, 24-14, 
the first half. Beta's Wooglin' Five attempto play catch-up in the second stanza, netg 12 tallies to the winners 14, however, the 
ort just wasnt enough.
After the Intramural Night Awards Ceremony, 
e Majors contest was played. The opening 
nza set the tone of the game, as the two 
uads were obviously a close match. When the 
lftime buzzer sounded, the Bruise Brothers 
re up by two, 19-17. In the second period, 
wever, the ATO Wolfpack doubled its first 
if score, outscoring their challnegers by 
yen, to put them over the top.
Ray Brennan of the Bruise Brothers had a 
me high 14 points, while both George Deb
and Andy James broke into the double 
ures for ATO with 12 and 11 tallies, 
spectively.
Finally, Pilam showed its true colors, as they 
pped the Minors for the second consecutive
year. Their victim this time, KDR, had barely 
a prayer, as Pilam came out to a commanding 
25-10 lead in the premier stanza. Though the 
winners could only drop in 13 tallies in the se
cond half, KDR could do no better than their 
first-half score.
Pilam s Neerand led both teams, as he was 
the only hoopster to hit the double figures with 
six baskets.
Congratulations to the Commissioners and the 
IM office for completing their most successful 
season yet. This years basketball league con
sisted of a school high 106 teams.
SPORTS IN SEASON 
Backgammon
Commissioner: Todd Bross-682-5134 
Players are asked to watch the IM bulletin board 
for play-off schedule.
Pinochle
Commissioner: Vince Carozza-687-8940 
League finals are being played now, players are 
asked to submit all scores to the Commissioner.
Floor Hockey
Commissioners:
Majors: Rob Schlaekman-683-3739 
Minors: Paul Pecora--621-9124 or x6614 
Commissioners are reminded to return mats to 
their proper places after the final game of the 
night. Standings are posted on the IM bulletin 
board.
Water Basketball
Commissioner: Mike Goddard-x8651 
Schedules are out and may be picked up in the 
IM office. Each team is required to provide a
certified life guard for every contest.
Table Tennis
Commissioner: Stuart Foxx4572 
Schedules are out and may be picked up in the 
IM office. Teams are asked to play matches as 
scheduled and report all scores to the IM office.
Team Call Pool
Commissioner: Scott Bale-x4314 
Schedules are out and may be picked up in the 
IM office.
Individual Call Pool
Commissioner: Scott Bale-x4314 
Final entry date: March 20
Foul Shooting
Commissioner: Dom Colangelos--687-6369 
Campus Champion: Soap-on-a-Rope 
Individual Champion: Bill Belko (96-ofl00)
Co-Rec Table Tennis
Commissioner: Stuart Fox-x4272 
Final entry date: March 20
Wrestling
Commissioner: Joe Kuefler 
Campus Champions: DU
SPORTS COMING UP 
Team and Co-Rec Badminton
Commissioner: OPEN (anyone interested please 
contact the IM office)
Final entry date: March 20
Swimming
Commissioner: Chris Leech-681-8564 
Meet Date: March 19. at 4:30 p.m.
Teams or individuals must post entries.
Fencing
Commissioner: Jane Fisk-x2220
Softball
Commissioners:
Majors: OPEN
Intermediate: Rob Levine-x4497 
Minors: OPEN 
Womens: OPEN 
Anyone interested in being a commissioner 
contact the IM office. Final entry date is Marcl
13, and the starting date is March 15, weathei 
permitting. A rules clinic will be held Thurs 
day afternoon at 4:30 p.m. in the Womens
gymFrisbee
Commissioner: Eric Burgerson 
Final entry date: March 20
Indoor Soccer
Commissioner: Vince Carozza-687-8940 
Games will begin this afternoon. A rules clinic 
will be held in the Womens gym at 4:40 p.m 
today.
Track
Commissioner: Paul Pecora 
Meet date: April 23. at 4:40 p.m.
The 38th Annual Intramural Awards Night 
went well thanks to great job by IM Board 
President, Vince Carozza. The Annual In 
tramural Banquet will be held April 15. If you 
are interested in attending this event, sign up 
in the IM office. Betty, the Gyms security guard 
will be honored at this event.
Student Government President
and
Student Senate Elections
April 9 and 10
Candidate petitions available
at
Skibo info desk
from
March 4 to March 18
Senate Seats Open are:
3 inH&SS5inCIT
2 inGSIA4inCFA
1 in SUPA3inMCS

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan Sports
Dukes trample Tartan icemen in play-off games
By PERRY PIERCE
Tartan Staffuriter
The Duquesne Dukes ended the pucksters 
season abruptly last week, as the Dukes beat 
Carnegie Mellon 5-2. The Dukes played a 
much better game than they did in their 
previous meeting with the Tartans, when 
Carnegie Mellon walked away with a 4-2 win.
The Tartans knew that they were going to see 
more from the Dukes this time, but the first 
period was the complete opposite of what the 
Tartans were expecting. Off the opening face 
off. Tartan star forward Greg Timmons skated 
around three Duke defenders after a pass from 
Paul Russo. Timmons got off a quick wrist shot 
which beat Duquesne goalie Jim Reith to the 
stick side. The Tartans had that kind of control 
for a good part of the period. At the 6:56 mark. 
Timmons was called for a cross check and given 
another two minutes for unsportsman-like con
duct. From this point the Tartans were skating 
a man down, but the penalty killing units were 
excellent, as Duquesne out of the Tartan zone.
The Tartans took their 1-0 lead into the se
cond period and clearly had a big emotional ad
vantage. At the 2:14 mark. Duquesnes Jeff 
Corselio was called for interference. In that 
power play, the Tartans were able to get good 
penetration in the Duke's end, but were not 
able to get the puck in the net. Play continued.
and at 11:41 in the period, there was a scuffle 
in front of the net when Duquesne's Dave 
Wallace took a pass from Ken Durbin and put 
the puck in the side of the net before a diving 
Ron Bonnasso could kick it away.
A large controversey surounded the goal, as 
U allace had no helmet because it was knock
ed off by a Tartan defender. Carnegie Mellon 
claimed that the goal should not be counted, 
but the rules stated that a player losing a helmet 
can stay on the ice until he has time to get to 
his bench. Seeing that he was in front of the 
net. he was allowed to stay on the ice. That goal 
shifted the emotions completely around, as from 
that point on. the Dukes had the upper hand.
Onjy a minute after play resumed, the Dukes 
tallied again as Ed Burner took a pass from John 
Medvid. This put the Dukes ahead 2-1 after 
two periods of play.
The third period was almost a repeat of the 
first, as Greg Timmons took the face-off and 
passed to Bob Koch. Koch skated and gave 
Timmons a great pass, and Timmons put a shot 
through the legs of the Duke goalie to even the 
score at two apiece. Even though the score was 
tied, the momentum was clearly on Duquesness 
side.
The Tartan defense played a truly great game, 
as RCT player of the game John Blackwood 
kept the Tartans close throughout the matchup. 
Repeatedly he got the puck out of the slot where
Goalie Ron Bonnasso saves the shot
Pucksters clear out the goal area
a Duquesne attacker was about to take a shot. 
Without Blackwood, the Dukes may have had 
another two goals.
Tartan coach Polomsky cited the miss
ing John Barrett as one of the keys to the Du
quesne win. Barrett had been suspended due 
to a fluke ruling of the Conference which states 
that any ten minute major penalty is also a five 
game suspension from the league. Barrett was 
given his penalty in a incident with West 
Virginia, and this was to be his last game on 
the bench.
The Tartans skated well, but third period 
goals by Duquesnes Dave Wallace, Ray Con
way, and Chris Stern sealed the Tartan season 
in a hurry.
We basically made two key mistakes in this 
game," said Tartan coach Dr. John Polomsky. 
We let them get a lot of three-on-one breaks, 
and our defensive box broke down, as Du
quesnes John Medvid and Dave Wallace were 
continually in front of the net.
The pucksters will lose some very fine 
veterans with the end of this season. Team Cap
tain Mike Halloran will be sorely missed as the 
emotional leader of the team. The TArtans will 
also lose Rob Katz, who led the Tartans with 
15 goals and seven assists on the year. Senior 
co-captain Paul Russo will also be lost to 
graduation, as will right wingers Rich Lund. Bat
tle Brown. Joe Bailey, and left wingers Bob
Koch and Don Heyse.
Returning next season, among others, willM 
Greg Timmons. Timmons, who transferred fronj 
Miami of Ohio, scored 13 goals and had eigJ 
assists. He also managed to score a point i 
every game this semester, which is truly anim 
pressive feat. Among other returnees r^exiyeas 
will be Tartan goalie Ron Bonnasso. Bonna 
had three shutouts in thirteen games, while gi| 
ing up 40 goals for a 3.07 goals against averaj
Bonnasso had a lot of good things to say ab 
the game and the Tartans season, as he co 
fidentially stated that the Tartans have the I 
defense in the league. The defense kept us! 
everv game, we just needed a little bit more | 
support.
One of the keys to success next year will 
more goal production. "'Ronny [Bonnasso] wi 
reallv steady for us, said Coach Polomski, b 
we need some more goals. Polomsky said in 
the team improved much more from mid-sea 
one. as they gelled a lot during the series wfl 
Bowling Green.
They saw a lot of dirty hockey, and it helj* 
them the rest of thewav. I only wished wecoul 
have played them earlier in the year, com 
mented Polomsky on the Bowling Green series 
The pucksters have a lot of younger plavefi 
coming back next year, and the potential fos 
success is great.
Natators fall in conference championships
by Stew Levine
Tartan Staffuriter
The Swimming Tartans ended their season at 
the PAC Championships taking second place in 
both the Mens and Womens swimming. The 
Natators were defeated by the Grove City Men 
546-334, and by the John Carroll Women 
637-390.
The men were led by junior All-American 
Steve Francis who took home five gold medals 
in the 100. 200 and 500 yard freestyle as well 
as the 400 and 800 freestyle relay. Francis has 
already qualified for the NCAA Division III 
Championships in the 50 and 100 yard 
freestyle.
Francis wasn't the only one to shine for the 
Tartans. His teammates on the relays: Rob 
Summers, Mike Fitzgerald. Whitney Foster, 
Mark Schooley and Dave Chamberlain also had 
an excellent weekend. They took the 400 and 
800 free relays, and swam the 400 medley 
relav in NCAA qualifying time only to be dis
qualified over a questionable touch.
Schooley brought back his own gold medal 
by winning the 200 butterfly in 2:00.566 
seconds. Schoolevs time was only two seconds 
above the NCAA qualifier, leaving him a good 
chance to make the Championships at press 
time. He also placed fourth in the 200 in
dividual medley.
Summers, Foster and Fitzgerald also came 
through for the Tartans. Summers took second 
in the 100 breastroke and third in both the 200 
breastrook and 1650 freestyle, behind Grove 
City's Matt Wilkes.
Foster came in second in the 500 freestyle, 
one second behind Francis, and two seconds 
ahead of Fitzgerald who placed fourht. Foster 
also took second in the 100 butterfly, 0.068 
second behind Bethany's Eric Johnson while 
Fitzgerald received a bronze in the 100 
breaststroke touchin 0.284 seconds behind win
ner Mike eber of John Carroll.
Other men who placed for the Tartans were:
Doug Biesecker, Chris Leech. Hal Levine. Doug 
Lindblad, John Olsavskv, Brian Press and Dan 
Urban.
Not to be outdone at their first PAC Cham
pionship, the women also had some outstanding 
performances.
The Lady Tartans were led by freshman 
Francesca Crannell who left John Carroll with 
golds in the 50 freestyle, 400 medley relay and 
the 400 freestyle relay. She also garnered a 
silver in the 100 freestyle. Head Coach Donna 
Moroskv had this to say about Crannell and her 
performance, I'm really, proud, she s probably 
our most dedicated female swimmer.
Sophemore Carol Pampino also had one of 
her finest meets. She placed first in the 400 
medley. 400 freestyle and 800 freestyle relays. 
She also came in second in the 100 breastroke, 
200 breaststroke. 200 individual medley and 
400 individual medley. Coach Moroskv said of 
Pampino, She would ve done even better if she 
hadn't been sick two weeks ago.
Another winner for Carnegie Mellon "j 
senior co-captain Patty lllig in the 16 
freestyle. Illig was also a member of the 'I 
torious 400 freestyle relay and the second p 
200 freestyle and fourth in the 200 freestvK
Carol F reund added her share with secon<J 
in one meter and three meter diving. Su 
Kelley also helped with a second in the 
freestyle, and thirds in the 100 backstroke' 
400 individual medley.
The other ladies to place were: Christina 
Badd. Nancy Ott. Amv Stempel and 
Werner.
In the end. Coach Moroskv seemed p'e3; 
with the results. I'm really proud of 
teams. I'hi- women did tremendous with('y
women knocking on first. A lot did tlieir ^1 
despite that they were sick. I m disppoint^0 
the men's 400 medley and Steve s not 
MVP. the others didn't compare. The m11* 
mentally and physically strong. Their tech 
was the best I've seen.'
