The Tartan
Volume 82, Issue 16Carnegie Mellon UniversityFebruary 9, 1988
INSIDE
FEATURES.............Page 11
Valentines wishes and diet tif 
all-new advice column: Ask
is, plus an 
Specs
SPORTS....................Page 24
Lady Tartans win five in a ro 
off the press: Buggy Preview
w and hot
* 'Contra speech erupts into shouting match
Pace elected IFC president
By CHRIS YOUNG
Tartan Assistant News Editor 
Last Tuesday night amid fiery outbursts 
from the audience, Carlos Gomez, a speaker 
^/sponsored by Carnegie Mellons College 
Republicans, told students and the public why 
he opposes Nicaraguas Sandinista govern
ment and supports the Contra rebels.
Originally, the College Republicans had 
planned to have an actual Contra rebel, or 
freedom fighter as he was advertised, come 
speak in Skibo ballroom. But word spread just 
before the event that the Contra rebel was 
unable to show. Instead, they found Carlos 
Gomez, who said he was a resident of the 
United States but had spent a few years living 
in Nicaragua during the Sandinista 
governments rule.
Although the speech lasted only about a half 
hour, it met with frequent bouts of clapping 
and booing. While half the audience clapped 
to all the points Gomez made, the other half 
^constantly interrupted him with heckling and 
booing.
Many people held up poster-boards which 
said No more lies! and Thats a lie! when 
they disagreed with a point Gomez had made.
Gomez began by praising the United States 
for having the glory of such a beautiful 
democracy.
He then told the audience, I would like to 
say that I believe its critical that the United 
States maintain our continued support of what 
I would qualify as the true freedom-loving 
Nicaraguans. I think Im one of them.
He said the reason why the U.S. should 
support the Contras was because this, in turn.
pholo by Chris Young
Not all members of the audience agreed with Gomezs account of why the United States should support the Contras. Some voiced their 
disagreement with placards as well as heckling. At times Gomezs voice was drowned out by shouts of No more lies!
insures that the necessary political pressure is 
maintained over the Sandinistas whose gov
ernment he called a Marxist-Leninist, totali
tarian government.
After interruptions from the audience accus
ing him of working for the CIA, Gomez re
plied, Im not here speaking for any agency. 
Im speaking as a Nicaraguan. Im not affili
ated with the U.S. government. Of course, if I
Transformer failure causes blackout
was to go to Nicaragua tomorrow, 1 would be 
accused of (working for the CIA|.
Another statement which received a loud re
action from the audience was when Gomez 
stated, There are two brothers in power in 
Nicaragua. We would never tolerate two 
brothers in power anywhere else in the world." 
This statement was countered by loud shouts 
of Haven't you ever heard of the Ken
nedy s?!
Near the end ofthe speech James Crary of the 
campus community came forward to ask a 
question. "I don't approve of all the violence," 
he calmly said. I dont think many of us do. 
Weve heard news of the Contras committing 
atrocities, of extracting information from pris
oners under force, of killing civilians. You've 
been offered a very good peace plan, the Arias 
peace plan. Why don't you accept the peace 
plan?
To this Gomez responded. "We don't accept 
it because we believe the Sandinistas are sup
porting it in order to buy time."
Having answered the question, Gomez then 
said I have to go. I have a 9:35 plane to catch." 
It was 9:10 at the time and the crowd suddenly 
rose up. Gomez hurried out ofthe ballroom as
a few opposing crowd members came close to 
breaking off into fights.
According to Aaron Solomon, leader of 
CMU's College Republicans, they were ini
tially going to have Joseph Douglas, a Creole 
founder of the Contra army give Tuesday 
night's speech. But Douglas, who was in 
Harrisburg. Virginia, on Monday night, was 
unable to fly into Pittsburgh because freezing 
rain cancelled his plane flight.
Solomon said he spent seven hours on the 
phone calling people before he managed to 
find Carlos Gomez of Allentown. Pa.
Gomez, said Solomon, was a nati ve Nicaraguan, who is now a professor of engineering 
at Lehigh University.
Gomezs mother was in the hospital Tuesday 
night, and he therefore agreed to give his 
speech only if he could be flown in at 7:50 pm 
and out at 9:35 pm. leaving only about a half 
hour for his speech.
Solomon said he was "disappointed by the 
rudeness during Gomez's speech.
This was the first time the College Republi
cans have sponsored a political speaker. Solo
mon hopes "next time we will have things 
more organized.
By MARK BENISH
Tartan Contributing Editor
Elections for Interfratemity Council officers 
were held on Feb. 4 in Adamson Wing. Chris 
Pace of Delta Tau Delta was elected president, 
Marrianne Shaw of Kappa Kappa Gamma was 
named treasurer, and Tony Chen of Sigma Nu 
won the secretary race.
Pace won on the third ballot. There were five 
candidates for president: Pace; Joe Bolt/ of 
Alpha Tau Omega; Mike Frank of Delta Upsilon; Steve Stone of Beta Theta Pi; and George 
Wadsworth of Sigma Nu. The first ballot 
eliminated Boltz and Wadsworth; the second 
eliminated Stone; and the final ballot made 
Pace the winner.
Pace is a fourth-year junior who has held 
many offices at Delta Tau Delta, such as house 
manager, rush chairman, and IFC representa
tive. In his speech he claimed that the Greek 
system had high potential that he did not feel 
had been reached and in his term he would try 
to bring around that potential with the help of 
his fellow IFC officers.
Shaw is a junior who served as secretary of 
the IFC since October. Shaw's victory was 
decided on the first ballot.
Chen is a sophomore who holds the office of 
recording secretary at Sigma Nu. Chen won 
his election on the second ballot over Zan 
Lambert of Kappa Kappa Gamma.
The Executive Vice-President of IFC is 
filled by the president of the Council of Frater
nal Presidents, a position for which elections 
will be held on February 11 in the Adamson 
Wing. Other CFP offices that will be decided 
are Rush Chairman, Housing Chairman, and 
Secretary.
photo by Chris Cox
Water may have shorted out this switch gear, causing last weeks blackout.
By CARLOS FRANCO
Tartan Staffwriter 
At approximately 1:15 pm on Tuesday 
February 2, most of campus was left with
out power.
The heavy rains are being blamed for the 
incident. Apparently the lawn area in front 
of Wean Hall became saturated with water, 
which then leaked in around the skylights.
Once in Wean Hall, the water dripped on 
the switch gear located on the fourth floor. 
It is this switch gear that controls a 4160 
volt transformer which provides power to 
much of CVlU. The switch gear is used to
shut down the transformer for servicing.
Having reached the switch gear, the water 
came in contact with one of the wires. This 
caused the wire to heat up because the 
water draws a charge from the wiring.
The heat that was generated caused the in
sulation on the wire to char and bum 
through. After the wire had worn through 
there was a massive power surge which 
caused an electrical explosion.
In response to the surge, the transformer 
shut down, leaving much of CMU in the 
dark. The transformer, which is lubricated 
continued on page 7

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanFebruary 9, 1988
^sair/H/W9~yf
World
News
Soviet Union denies 
nuclear accident report
LONDON (AP) British authorities denied 
reports of a nuclear accident in the Soviet 
Union Wednesday, saying the scare may have 
been caused by test messages transmitted last 
week to try out a new nuclear accident alert 
system.
There is no reason for worry and no reason 
for panic. There was no accident, said Barry 
Parker, the deputy press officer at the national 
headquarters of the British Meteorological 
Office.
He said a series of test Telexes was transmit
ted last Wednesday as a practice run for a 
new information system set up in the wake of 
the April 1986 disaster at the Chernobyl nu
clear power station in the Soviet Union.
"A test was sent over the global telecommu
nications system using bogus data and pre
fixed test test test', he said.
He said he had no idea how this was trans
formed into a scare a week later. He said his 
office was deluged with calls after reports 
emerged of a purported accident in the Soviet 
Union.
Soviet officials have flatly denied reports of 
a nuclear accident, the official Soviet news 
agency Tass reported.
Recently, the World MeteorologicaLOrganization has sent a series of "test Telexes" to the 
Geneva meteorological body to make sure the 
system of early alert would work in the case of 
emergency, said International Atomic Energy 
Agency spokesman Hans-Friedrich Meyer.
Somebody "not in the know" about the test 
could have seen a reply message and thought 
it referred to a real nuclear accident, Jenny 
Stickings of the Meteorological Organization 
said in Geneva.
The IAEA said that at no time has the 
agency used the word accidents in its tests.
The agency reiterated that it had "no report 
about any nuclear accident in any one of its 
member states."
United States indicts 
Panamas Noriega
MIAMI (AP)  Panama's military strong
man, Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega, was 
indicted by a federal grand jury in Miami on 
charges of aiding international cocaine traf
fickers, sources said.
The 30-page indictment includes racketeer
ing and other drug-related charges, the sources 
said on condition of anonymity.
Noriega, who leads Panamas national 
guard, is considered the power behind the 
civilian government.
Two Israeli soldiers die 
in Arab guerilla attack
KIRYAT SHMONEH, Israel (AP)  Arab 
guerrillas with anti-tank missiles and auto
matic rifles infiltrated Israel from Lebanon 
and fought Israeli troops Friday, and two sol
diers and one guerrilla were killed, an army 
communique said.
The army said the guerrilla squad had 
planned to carry out a hostage-taking opera
tion in a civilian settlement along the Lebanon-Israel border.
Kennedy confirmed to 
Supreme Court
WASHINGTON (AP)  Anthony M. Ken
nedy, president Reagan's third choice to fill 
out the Supreme Court, was confirmed unani
mously by the senate.
Liberals and conservatives alike praised 
Kennedy as a conservative judicial craftsman 
without a rigid ideology. He was approved on 
a vote of 97-0.
House rejects Reagans 
Contra aid request
WASHINGTON (DJ)  The Democraticcontrolled House of Representatives voted 
against providing more military aid to the 
Nicaraguan rebels, one of President Reagans 
most cherished pet projects.
Last Wednesday nights 219-211 vote to 
reject Reagan's request to give the Contras 
$36.2 million more in aid after current assis
tance expires Feb. 29 was a big loss for the 
president, who has fought for Contra aid 
longer and harder than any other foreign pol
icy issue throughout his seven-year presi
dency.
The defeat came suddenly in spite of the twoweek lobbying effort by Reagan that contin
ued all the way up until Wednesday nights 
vote.
Defeat of the president's request probably 
will demoralize some of the Nicaraguan politi
cal opposition and raise familiar questions 
about U.S. staying power. It also may fracture 
the Contra movement.
Reagan administration officials predict that 
many of the rebels will abandon the fight
against the Sandinista government and that 
only the hard-core insurgents, over whom the 
U.S. will have little control, will remain.
But the vote doesn't mean Reagan won't get 
another chance to fight for Contra aid. Before 
the current aid funds are to run out Feb. 29, 
House Democrats are likely to propose a $10 
million to $15 million aid package that would 
be limited to food, shelter, clothing and medi
cal supplies.
Administration officials, however, privately 
doubt that the Democrats will agree on an 
alternative aid package.
Meanwhile, some lawmakers said that while 
they were voting to cut off military aid to the 
Contras now, their positions could change 
later.
Prosecutor considers 
McFarlane charges
WASHINGTON (DJ)  The special prose
cutor in the Iran-Contra affair is considering 
bringing criminal charges against former 
National Security Adviser Robert McFarlane, 
according to persons familiar with the investi
gation.
It is widely believed that the prosecutor, 
Lawrence Walsh, decided long ago not to 
proceed against McFarlane for his role in the 
scandal.
But the sources now say Walsh and his staff 
may seek charges against the former White 
House aide for allegedly submitting false 
statements to Congress, or misleading it, about 
secret administration activities in support of 
the Nicaraguan Contra rebels.
This latest development makes clear that 
Lawrence Walsh, pushing toward the climax 
of his 14-month investigation, has switched to 
a tougher approach with McFarlane, who 
would be a key witness in the criminat cases 
that are very likely to be brought against oth
ers.
Reagan pushes new 
Mideast peace plan
WASHINGTON (DJ)  The Reagan ad
ministration is quietly pushing a new Mideast 
peace plan calling for Israeli-Arab negotia
tions over the status of the West Bank and 
Gaza starting before the end of the year.
The plan possibly could lead to shuttle diplo
macy in ihe region by Secretary of State 
George Shultz.
The proposal is a variation on the aborted
1979 Camp David autonomy plan, which 
proposed limited self-rule for Palestinians in 
the occupied territories, followed five years 
later by negotiations over a final settlement. 
The current plan would accelerate the process, 
calling for limited self-rule and local elections 
in the occupied territories within months and 
final-status negotiations  involving Israel,
Jordan, Palestinian leaders and perhaps others
 starting in December.
Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, who 
plans to visit the U.S. in March, has given what 
one diplomat describes as a cautious and 
tentative yes to the plan.
The administration last week dispatched 
Philip Habib, a special presidential envoy, to 
discuss the proposal with Jordans King 
Hussein. Habib returned to Washington 
Monday  after first meeting in Paris with 
Egypts foreign minister  to meet with 
Shultz.
One U.S. official said King Husseins initial 
response to the plan certainly wasnt nega
tive. It also is understood that Egyptian Presi
dent Hosni Mubarak, who visited here last 
week, supported the proposal.
Nevertheless, skeptics doubt that any solu
tions can be found in a year when there are 
national elections scheduled in both the U.S. 
and Israel. In an interview in the Washington 
Post last month, Hussein appeared to all but 
write off the Reagan administration.
Psychic helps locate 
missing mans body
Last Wednesday, after a psychic told police J 
where to look, the body of a 78-year old man 
was found in a wooded area in Plum. The man 
had been missing for a month.
Sylvester Tonets frozen body was uncov
ered around noon. He was last seen on January
3.
The psychic, Nancy Czetli, said she visual
ized the area through mental imagesof the 
man who was lost. She said she was led ^ 
though patterns of someone who was in dis- * 
comfort.
According to the Allegheny County 
coroners office the cause of the accidental 
death was hypothermia, or exposure to the 
cold. The temperature was near zero when 
Tonet left his home around 2 pm.
Before the psychic became involved, the 
search for Tonets missing body involved 
blood-hounds, a helicopter, firemen, volun- ^ 
teers and police officers.
Because of medication Tonet had been tak
ing for a fractured skull suffered five years 
ago, he sometimes became confused, said 
police.
News Briefs appear courtesy 
of Dow Jones, Inc.
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center 268-2922
After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator will help you reach the staff 
member on call.
COHTACT Pittsburgh........................................................... \ 792'402324 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive listening
Drug Connection......................................................................... 854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 5 - 9 pm
Tel-Aid.............................................................................................A Series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safety issues. Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs
^tuffata
A small group of CMU students is sponsoring a trip to Daytona 
Beach, Florida for Spring Break through Designers of TraveL This 
company, unlike many others, is reputable and has proof of hotel 
reservations. It also offers a complete package that includes roundtrip 
chartered bus transportation from CMU and seven nights accomoda
tions at the Holiday Inn (beach front).
Rates: (Complete bus package)
5per room-$ 199/person Sign up in Skibo Grey Matter
4 per room~$219/person 12pm-2:30pm
3per room--$249/person Feb. 6, Feb 13, Feb 20 and
2 per room-$309/person Feb 27
Contact: Darryl X4527 for presentation
w

---------------------------------------------------

February 9,1988The TartanPage 3
East Campus construction to begin in May
photo courtesy Michael Dennis, Jeffery Clark & Associates
The campus plan has changed since the last map was released in October as architects have refined the design of the East Campus 
project. The project, which must be completed before the Student Center, is sheduled to begin by May 1.
By JONATHAN LEVY
Tartan Staffer iter
The first stage of the long-awaited campus 
remodeling, the East Campus project, will 
begin by May 1.
^ The plan consists of a new dormitory and 
dining hall behind Donner Hall, a parking 
garage along Forbes, and Tech Field running 
East-West in between.
According to William F. Elliott, Vice Presi
dent for Enrollment, the first step is to arrange 
utilities for the new dorm and clear out the 
storage under the stands at Tech Field. The 
space contains Physical Plant equipment and 
^items used for carnival. After the stands are 
cleared out, work on removing them will begin 
between April 20 and May 1.
The university plans to work on the construc
tion through the summer, next school year, and 
the following summer. The dormitory is 
scheduled to be finished by August 1989 and 
occupied beginning fall semester of that year. 
The rest of the project, including the dining 
hall, probably will not be finished until later in 
the semester.
Because students will not have access to 
Tech Field or the Intramural Fields for almost 
three semesters, Elliott and Director of Athlet
ics and Physical Education James Banner are 
searching for other facilities to accommodate 
student activities. Elliott says that the univer
sity plans to use the Cut and the area between 
the Fine Arts building and Hammerschlag 
*Hall heavily for intramurals.
Banner and Elliott are investigating various 
off campus sites for other intramurals and 
varsity sports events. Some of the sites under 
consideration are Chatham College, Winchester-Thurston school, Central Catholic high 
school, Schenley Oval, and the lower level of 
Flagstaff Hill. Elliott says that the gym hours 
may be extended to allow students to make 
'more use of the facilities that will be available.
Another problem which will have to be dealt 
with during the construction is parking. Al
though the parking garage will eventually 
increase on campus parking, possibly by as 
many as 400 spaces, there will be a temporary 
loss of parking during the construction. The 
new dormitory will be built, in part, on the 
current site of the Margaret Morrison Street 
?parking lot.
The parking garage will be built where the 
small parking lot east of the main Skibo lot 
now sits. Director of Planning Patrick Keating 
says that part of the Intramural Field will be 
turned into temporary parking during the 
construction. He does not know how many 
spaces will be created.
Paul Teller is a university architect working 
closely with the architectural firms Dennis & 
Clark and Tams Consultants, both of Boston,
who are designing the project. He feels that 
after the projects are completed, Its going to 
be the greatest campus in the country.
New dorm will have duplex suites
The new dormitory will be a five story build
ing with the fifth level slated to contain the 
upper levels of duplex suites. The rooms will 
be singles and doubles arranged in suites 
housing between two and eight people. Each 
suite will also have a bathroom and a living 
room. Some of the four, five, and eight person 
suites on the fourth floor will be duplexes.
The entry to the suite will be on the fourth 
floor and there will be staircases within the 
suites leading to rooms on the upper level. The 
latest plans call for a total of 265 beds. Teller 
said that, We feel the architect has come up 
with a really imaginative design that gives stu
dents a lot of choices.
The dormitory will be divided into two build
ings, connected on the basement level. An 
open area is planned between the buildings to 
allow both a view of Tech Field from Margaret 
Morrison and access to the field. The new 
dining facility will be on the end of the eastern 
building. It is intended to be the main cafeteria
for residents of the new dorm, Donner, and the 
Hill dorms.
After students have gotten their food they 
will have the choice of several dining rooms. 
Some will overlook the athletic fields. An
other will be two stories with a hole in the 
middle of the upper floor to allow diners to 
look down at the lower floor. In good weather 
there will be tables outside overlooking Tech 
Field six feet below.
The first floor of the western building will 
contain common areas. There will be a televi
sion lounge, mail room, meeting rooms, and 
study rooms. The residential floors will have 
study lounges.
The yearly rates for the rooms have not been 
decided yet. The Housing Office will probably 
create new rate classes based on prime singles 
and doubles because those rooms are most 
similar to the new rooms. According to Direc
tor of Auxilary Services rates throughout the 
housing system will increase by about 6 per
cent to pay for the new dorm.
Parking could increase by 400 spaces
The planned parking garage is intended to 
help elevate the lack of on campus parking. 
Estimates as to how many spaces would be 
gained range from 150 to 400.
The exact number of spaces in the garage has 
not been determined yet. Estimates are that 
there will be between 600 and 1000 spaces. 
Teller said that the current plans call for 680 
spaces on three floors and possibly eight tennis 
courts on the top to replace the courts which 
are expected to be lost in the university center 
project. If the tennis courts are not built, a 
fourth level of parking could be built. Teller 
estimates that there would then be around 900 
spaces.
The size of the current Skibo extension lot
and community concern that the structure 
would be an eyesore will limit the size of the 
garage.
The university is solving this problem by 
limiting the size and designing the building to 
be attractive. Teller said that the garage will 
be a very handsome architectural wall along 
Forbes. It will not look like a downtown park
ing structure... It will look like a significant 
university building.
It is not yet known whether any undergradu
ates will be able to buy spaces in the garage.
According to Mayer, the university has a 
waiting list of about 400 people at the start of 
every school year. This is roughly the same as 
the upper estimates of how many spaces will 
be created. However, there are many variables 
which the university can not predict.
Mayer says that people make other arrange
ments during the year and the list of people 
who still want spaces decreases. Another fac
tor is the fact that parking rates will be raised 
throughout the campus parking system and 
garage spaces will be near the top of the scale.
Currently the most expensive spaces on 
campus cost about $400 per year. This may 
make garage spaces too expensive for many 
students and possibly even increase the de
mand for the less expensive lots.
1M, Tech Field improvements scheduled
The original reason for rotating Tech Field 
was to make room for the dormitory and ga
rage parallel to Margaret Morrison and 
Forbes.
Since the project was going to involve re
building the field anyway, the university plans 
to make improvements in both Tech Field and 
the intramural fields. Tech Field will have 
artificial turf. Keating said that it will be 
comparable to the artificial surfaces used in 
many professional stadiums around the coun
try.
The intramural field will be re-sodded with 
higher quality grass and will have better drain
age and irrigation. The Tech Field area will 
have facilities for events such as high jump, 
long jump, and steeplechase. Events such as 
javelin and discus throw will not be possible 
on the artificial surface but will be held on the 
intramural fields. There w ill be a quarter mile 
track around Tech Field. To allow for night 
activities, improved lighting will be put up 
around the entire area.
The total area for play will be somewhat 
reduced but Keating thinks that it will be a fair 
trade-off. He says that. The net result of all 
this is a little less green space for athletics and 
recreation but it will be densely utilized for 
longer periods during the day."
The university feels that the new fields will 
be an improvement for students. Keating said. 
We really hope that it will be a first class 
facility.
continued on page 4
photo by Chris The
According to Director of Planning Patrick Keating, bulldozers will be on campus by 
May 1 to begin demolition of the stadium. ___________________

---------------------------------------------------

FEBRUARY IS BUST MS MONTH!
DOHERTY HALL & IN GREY MATTER
1st PRIZE:
2 ROUND TRIP TICKETS TO FLORIDA 
WITH AMERICAN AIRLINES VIA THE 
RALEIGH-DURHAM HUB
2nd PRIZE:
DINNERS DONATED BY GIANNETTIS, 
THE BALCONY, & OTHER LOCAL 
RESTAURANTS
WE WOULD LIKE TO THANK THE FOLLOWING OAKLAND 
BUSINESSES FOR THEIR CONTRIBUTIONS Oakland Fashion Optical: $5 off each CMU
prescription filled 
 Mend It & More: 10% off all patterns 
0 Ultra International: 1% of all sales during the 
month of February will be donated to MS 
 Ron Coleman Hair Salon: 5^ off every hair care
product sold 
 Macondo, Zeldas, Goodies
TICKETS SOLD TODAY IN 
FRONT OF

---------------------------------------------------

February 9,1988The TartanPage 5
photo by Chris Young
Carlos Gomez, speaking in favor of the Contras, responds to members from the 
audience who interrupted him with accusations that he worked for the CIA.
Student Senate Meeting 
.Minutes: February 2
Student organizations participate 
in drug and alcohol forum
Senators present: Berger, de Jong, Dennis, 
Frazier, Gallo, Gantshar, Graupera, Green
berg, Herrick, Jainchill, Jacowitz, Kornbrek, 
Levy, Liu, Mukherjee, Neighbor, Pavlosky, 
Rao, Ruben, Steppel, Zapf.
Senators absent: Christina (exc), Hausman 
(exc), Levine, Sklar.
Ex-Officio Members present: Robitshek, 
Skolkin, Detillo.
Members-at-Large present: Trinh, Vaserstein, Wilke, Zung.
Members-at-Large absent: Solomon
Audience Participation: none.
President: Andy Robitshek. Board of Trus
tees will discuss student issues on Monday at 
the SEI.
SDC: Karen Pavlosky. MorePizza will be** gin delivery to the Hill dorms. Minimum order 
of $4.85. Kiltie has Life cereal and fudge 
ripple ice cream. Tartan Grill has new nacho 
sauce.
Movie selection needs to be more fair. SDC 
will meet with Dean Cox and AB.
There is a new antenna for Donner Lounge 
TV to make ABC clearer.
117 people gave blood at the SDC blood
 drive.
SDC constitutional changes made by Wed
nesday: 1) dormitory changed to resident 
hall. 2) even out number of representatives in 
each area in the dorms. 3) redefine duties of 
V.Ps. 4) form cabinet for advisory purposes.
SDC rep will look into driers that dont dry in 
one cycle.
Investigations will be made into why the
 pizzas at MorePizza are getting smaller.
IFC: Glenn Detillo. Spoke with Mrs. 
Klimesky at Dining Services about making the 
student I.D.s different for each class. Mukher
jee says this is a Greek problem because of 
fraternity rush parties, not a problem to be 
dealt with by Senate.
Chairman: Erica Levy. Housing refund pol
icy is in folder.
When students leave on suspension and 
come back to school they are put at the end of 
the housing waiting list but will eventually get 
housing.
Boss and McGill may be coed once new 
dorm is built.
Treasurer: Kerry Skolkin. no report.
Academic Affairs: Mark Steppel. Spoke 
with Anne Robinson about 7:30 am exams and 
m leisure hours. Tenure and library brought up.
MCS college council meeting Feb. 12,
11:30-l :00. Needs to communicate with Stu
dent Senate.
Greenberg wonders if freshmen in H&SS 
should take 4 classes instead of 5. A council 
could discuss this.
Campus Affairs: Glenn Kornbrek. Campus 
needs bicycle racks. SPLAT. Improved light
ing needed on campus and in 2210. Space 
allocation on campus needs work. (i.e. trail
ers).
Funding and Recognition: Tamal 
Mukherje. Senate recognizes University 
Rowing Club and allocates $1483 to it. The 
Rowing Club has 96 members and 89 activity 
fees paying students. A member who has WSI 
can be the lifeguard. The club will sell a 
rowing manual. The first meeting is on Febru
ary 10, WH 7500. Dues are $5.
Public Relations: Laurie Gallo. New carni
val slogan: Fairytales  when you can't get 
the real thing. Find storage space for carnival 
things in loft. It may fall down.
Rules: Allen Greenberg. Senator Berger 
nominated as co-chair for Rules committee. 
Will have section completed for next meeting.
Article in Tartan discussed Tony Martins 
statement that he would confiscate things such 
as hand guns from residence hall rooms. Room 
entering policy says nothing can be confis
cated.
Old Business: Senate moves to endorse 
Bulletin Board Program. Brad Walter sup
ports it and hopefully President Cyert will 
fund it. Move tabled till next week, so Glenn 
can bring in more information.
New Business: Senator Ruben met with 
Dean Li I ley and the ideas for fun in February 
are as such: Faculty Strange Day. Faculty 
Talent show. Jello wrestling in the Ballroom. 
Need senators to help build wooden structure 
to hold jello. After thatmaybe an AB dance. 
Plan for last weekend in February or the one 
before.
Points of Discussion: Give ideas to Laurie 
about carnival booth. Sandbox. Castle.
Student J. Wong wants to film students and 
place VCR in student areas.
Book store people seem receptive for new 
ideas for clothing.
Retail Store Advisory Board meeting end of 
February. Who scheduled free ice skating 
during Senate meetings?
Meeting adjourned 8 pm.
By LILLY MANSOUR
Tartan Staffwriier
The Drug and Alcohol Awareness Forum 
held on Saturday, Feb. 6, in the Wherrett 
Room was the first of several programs 
planned by the Division of Student Affairs. 
Organized primarily by Donna Morosky and 
headed by Dean Edward Lilley, the forum 
involved some of the most creative and intel
lectual members of the Pittsburgh community 
knowledgeable in the areas of drug and alco
hol abuse.
Because of the drug and alcohol problems 
across the country, the Department of Educa
tion under the Division of Student Affairs 
needed to do massive preparation on the use 
and abuse of drugs. Leaders of different or
ganizations on campus and staff from different 
departments were invited to attend in order to 
give them a preview of the different types of 
approaches on drug and alcohol presentations 
and to provide them with current information 
on drugs and alcohol. If any organization 
decides to hold a program, the Division of 
Student Affairs will co-sponsor it.
The three hour forum was unlike traditional 
drug and alcohol programs which hold boring 
lectures and present gory effects of abuse. This 
forum presented factual information and en
couraged students to make responsible deci
sions about the use of chemical substances and 
asked them to consider the effects of the sub
stances on their lives.
One of the four presentations in the forum 
was a brief overview on contemporary drug 
abuse given by Dr. Edward Kenzelok, director 
of the Pittsburgh Poison Center. With the aid 
of slides, Dr. Kenzelok discussed the different
continued from page 3
The anticipated cost of the East Campus 
project is around $25 million. The dorm and 
dining hall will cost $13 million. Tech Field 
and the garage are estimated at $6-7 million 
each. The dorm, dining hall, and garage are 
expected to pay for themselves out of rent and 
food service fees. Tech Field will be paid for 
by fund-raising.
After the East Campus project is finished, the 
university will probably begin the Student 
Center project. It can not begin any sooner 
because Kiltie will be needed until the new 
dining facility is built.
The first step will be the demolition of Skibo 
in early 1990. After Skibo is removed, the 
Student center will be built on the site as well
types of drugs, their availability, street value, 
and purity, stressing that many substitutes 
were on the market.
The second part of the forum involved a 
recovering alcoholic who shared her real-life 
experience, discussing why she started drink
ing, expressing her feelings and opinions and 
giving information on Alcoholics Anony
mous. A second, younger alcoholic was also 
present, proving that all ages are susceptible to 
the disease. An informal question and answer 
session took place during lunch provided by 
Scotland Yard.
Janet Carroll from Alternatives part of the 
Department of Special Services, conducted a 
session in role playing. Groups of students 
assumed different roles relating to situations 
in which drugs/alcohol played a part, allow ing 
individuals to express their feelings and come 
to terms with how they would deal with vari
ous problems. Emphasis was placed on how 
alcoholism can affect the entire family.
The final section of the forum was a humor
ous approach presented by John Massella of 
Gateway Rehabilitation. He used several an
ecdotes to illustrate signs of addiction and to 
dispel myths. This approach was light and 
attained positive feedback from the audience.
This forum is available on videotape for 
anyone wishing to view it. Other videos are on 
file as well, equipping people with current 
information on drugs and alcohol and encour
aging them to make responsible choices rather 
than preaching at them to just say no".
The second portion of this program will be on 
Feb. 22, at 7:30 pm in Skibo Ballroom. It will 
be a lecture given by Lydell Mitchell titled 
American Students at the Crossroads.
as surrounding areas. The construction is 
expected to take until the end of 1991 and cost 
between $30-35 million. The university is in 
the process of trying to raise the money.
The details of the Center are still being con
sidered but the building will probably have 
dining facilities, meeting rooms, offices for 
student organizations, athletic facilities, a 
lecture hall, and other areas for student recrea
tion.
After the Student Center is built the univer
sity may construct some other buildings. Some 
of the possibilities under consideration are an 
academic building between Donner and the 
new dorm, a theater across the cut from the 
Student Center, and a GSIA addition between 
the Fine Arts building and Tech Street.
Pittsburgh Jung Society presents
("The Way of the Dreamj)
20 1/2 hour films that explore the Jungian 
interpretation of dreams with Marie-Louise Franz.
Friday, March 18 7-10:30pm
Saturday, March 19 9am-12noon, 2-5pm 
Sunday, March 20 1-5pm
Carnegie Mellon Gregg Hall (PH100)
Ticket price: $1.50
Advance price (before February 17): $1.25 
Registration limitedCall 682-8172
Pittsburgh Jung Society  5654 Darlington Rd.* Pittsburgh, PA 15217
East Campus construction 
expected to cost $25 million

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanFebruary 9,1988
Feigenbaum receives Dickson Prize
Rocke
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan News Editor 
The 1987 Dickson Prize in Science was 
awarded Feb. 3 to Dr. Mitchell J. Feigenbaum, who pioneered the study of chaotic 
behavior.
The Dickson Prize is awarded each year 
by Carnegie Mellon to recognize the most 
important contribution to science in the 
United States. The ] 
various science departments at the 
sity. This years wiener waste! 
physics department 
A theoretical physicist at 
University, Feigenbili 
his work in the fields of science and mathe
matics. He rese&ch of chaotic behavior, 
however, has begun to 
ranging
Feigenbaum discovered that lar 
of non-linear systems exhibit 
chaotic behavior which share certain c 
acteristics that are universal and qualita
tively measurable.
The study of chaotic behavior has 
increasing popular in recent yeafs, a 
of computers which aid in the numerical 
and graphical analysis involved in the field 
Known as Mr. Chaos, Feigenbaum be
came intrigued with chaotic behavior in 
1968. While watching waves crash on the 
Massachusetts shore, he realized the phys
ics he knew could be used to explain regu
larities, but not all this wonderful tur
moil, as he calls it 
In the 1970s, Feigenbaum wandered 
alone at night outside the Los Alamos Na
tional Laboratory, where he worked, pondering the physics of turmoil.
During the period when it is said he sub
sisted cxi only red meat, coffee, cigarettes, 
and two hours of sleep a day, he formulated 
a mathematical rule which could explain 
how ordered systems could produce chaos.
A simple example of an ordered system 
exhibiting chaotic behavior can be seen in 
the flow of water. As the velocity of the 
water Increases, eddies can form in in the 
flow. When the velocity contines to increases, the number of eddies increases. At 
velocity the water bein a
crowded Whenett Room, Feigenbaum 
cited several other systems that exhibit 
chaotic behavior. They included chemical 
reactions, convection roils in fluid me
chanics, and seemingly simple electronic 
circuits.
erada! paper, published 
in mm* analyzed chaotic behavior in infeatured in news magai, radio programs, and television seg
ments. It also has come to be identified 
with fractals, computer-generated pat
terns.
Mitchell Feigenbaum received his 
bachelors degree in electrical engineering 
in 1964 from theCity College of New Yak 
and his Ph.D. in theoretical high energy 
physics.
The prize is awarded annully as provided 
for in the wills of Dr. Joseph Z. Dickson, a 
Pittsburgh physician, and Agnes Fisher 
Dickson, his wife.
Tartan Profiles the Candidates: Jack Kemp and Richard Gephardt
For over a century no one has gone directly 
from the House of Representatives to the 
White House, but Jack Kemp and Richard 
Gephardt dont seem to care.
The Republican Kemp, the former quarter
back for the Buffalo Bills, is most famous for 
co-authoring the 
Kemp-Roth tax cut 
that heralded in the Re
agan Era.
As a consequence of 
this emphasis on the economy, voters view 
Kemp as a one issue candidate.
Before 1970 Kemps life was dominated by 
football. He played for several teams, includ
ing five games with the Pittsburgh Steelers.
While a player for the San Diego Chargers, 
he worked on several Republican campaigns. 
In 1966 Governor Ronald Reagan rewarded 
him with an off-season appointment as assis
tant chief of staff.
In 1970 Kemp was elected to the House 
where he has been a staunch conservative and 
cheerleader for supply-side economics.
He supported the Vietnam War and B-l 
bomber, while he opposed the SALT and
Love 
confession 
from an 
anthemaniac.
As you know, anthemaniacs like myself 
just go crazy around 
flowers. So what does 
my Valentine send me 
on Valentines Day?
The FTD Love Note 
Bouquet!
Well, let me tell you, 
when I saw ihose 
beautiful flowers in 
that fine porcelain 
bowl it drove me wild.
Besides, this glorious 
bouquet also came 
with a note pad and 
pencil with which Ive 
written my Valentine 
every day.
And smart Valentines 
know it doesnt cost 
much to send us 
anthemaniacs into 
this flower frenzy.
Just ask your florist 
to have FTD send 
one for you.
Panama Canal treaties.
As president he would oppose any tax in
crease and any protectionist trade measures. 
He also heavily supports the Contras and early 
Star Wars deployment.
Kemp hopes to become the natural successor 
of Ronald Reagan.
Like Kemp, Democrat Richard Gephardts 
economic theories have made him a one issue 
candidate. The 47-year-old congressman has 
made trade legislation his specialty.
His protectionist stand and other proposals 
have played well in Iowa where he has done 
well in the polls.
Gephardt grew up in St. Louis and attended 
college at Northwestern in Illinois. A member 
of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity, he majored in 
speech and drama. In 1965 he graduated from 
the Law School of the University of Michigan 
and returned to St Louis to enter politics.
After a stint in local politics and law practice, 
as well as duty with the Missouri Air National 
Guard, he planned to run for mayor in 1976.
On the day he planned to announce his inten
tions, Missouris Third District Congressman 
announced plans to retire. Quickly changing 
plans, Gephardt ran and won the seat.
As a freshman representative he was as
signed to the powerful Ways and Means 
Committee, a rare achievement.
In Congress he led a move to stop the MX 
missile and opposed aid to the Contras, but he 
supported the attacks on Grenada and Libya.
He is best known for the Gephardt Amend
ment which would force automatic U.S. retali
ation against unfair foreign trade.
(Tartan Candidate Profiles are compiled by 
News Editor Eric Leuliette).
February 23
Qualified college students are invited to meet with us and explore the career opportunities.. .the innovative technology.. .the industry leadership that is Motorolas Semiconductor Products Sector.On-campus interviews will be held for ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING MAJORS.We will also accept resumes for MECHANICAL ENGINEERING, COMPUTER SCIENCE, MANUFACTURING ENGINEERING and CHEMICAL ENGINEERING positions.For more information, stop by your College Placement Office or write to Manager, College Recruiting at the appropriate address below.
Arizona Opportunities Texas Opportunities
Motorolas Semiconductor Products Sector Motorolas Semiconductor Products Sector
725 South Madison 1112 W. Ben White Blvd., Suite 200
Tempe, AZ 85281 Austin, TX 78704
(602) 994-6394 (800) 531-5183
An Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer

---------------------------------------------------

February 9,1988The TartanPage 7
a
Crime and Incident Report: 1/29 to 2/5
1/29 SPECIAL 6:59 pm Skibo shuttle 
driver found a bag with twelve unidentifi
able pills in womens restroom. The pills, 
which were different colors, are being 
analyzed.
1/29 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 10:08 pm 
Two student-age white males were spotted 
running north on Clyde Street. Officer 
chased the two, but lost them. They had 
upset a refrigerator, which was blocking 
the Cathedral Mansion driveway. The re
frigerator was moved.
1/31 RAT GAZORCHING 2:36 pm Of
ficer observed Pika brothers gazorching 
one live lab rat toward Morewood Gardens. 
The officer explained cruelty to animals act 
to brothers. Pika president said that was 
nitpickingthey were going to feed the rat 
to a snake anyhow.
2/1 UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS 
6:29 am Found young white man passed 
out on the second floor of the B-tower 
lounge in Morewood. He had an expired 
CMU ID and drivers licence. He didnt 
want to drive home drunk and decided to 
sack out in the lounge. He was escorted off 
campus and told to return only with a Car
negie Mellon affiliate.
2/1 HARASSMENT BY COMMUNI
CATION 12:48 am Victim has been re
ceiving calls since September by a person 
who asks for him by name. The calls started 
after he met two females from Carlow 
College. He was advised to keep a log of his 
calls.
2/1 SUSPICIOUS PERSONS 4:47 am 
ABM custodian reported a white male with 
dark hair and a beard in the Porter Hall
basement mens room. Actor stated he had just 
come from Hillman Library and was waiting 
for his brother who gets off work at 5 am. He 
was told to leave campus and not to return.
2/1 CRIMINAL ATTEMPT 8:22 am Per
sons unknown entered locked office in Scaife 
Hall and attempted to open a center desk 
drawer with a pair of scissors. Nothing was 
found missing, but the victim is taking inven
tory.
2/1 THEFT 10:11 am Persons unknown 
entered room in Doherty Hall and removed an 
oxygen tank, acetylene tank, two welding 
handles, and one cutting torch. Estimated 
value: $400.
2/1 THEFT 9:22 pm Persons unknown took 
an AIWA Walkman radio from inside the 
living room area. Value: $220.
2/2 BLACKOUT 1:18 pm Half of campus 
went dark. Circuit malfunctioned in Wean 
Hall 4th floor. Building was evacuated and a 
fire watch was set. Power was restored by 8 
pm.
2/2 THEFT 9:16 pm Porter Hall Persons 
unknown removed a VHS cassette player from 
a classroom. Estimated value: $425.
2/4 ASSIST OUTSIDE AGENCY 9:31 am 
Officer noticed tire tracks behind the fraterni
ties that passed near a parked car with a dam
aged fender. The officer went down Fifth and 
observed a car weaving through a couple of red 
lights. City police responded and stopped the 
car. Actor was arrested for DUI (Driving 
Under the Influence). Hearing is set for 2/11. 
The actor was an alumnus and the car belonged 
to a CMU student.
2/4 SUSPICIOUS PERSONS 2:35 pm Vic
tim in Wean Hall ladies room reported that
someone in the adjoining stall had held a 
mirror under her stall. Security found no 
one in the stall.
2/4 THEFT 3:17 pm Donner Hall victim 
stated that she left the room unlocked and 
returned to find that five $20 bills were 
taken from a cup on her desk. She left the 
door unlocked because her lock had been 
changed and she didnt have the new key. 
When she returned to the room, the door 
had been locked.
2/5 STEAM TUNNELS 1:09 am ABM 
custodian notified Campus Police that two 
white males were in the steam tunnels in 
Doherty Hall. The two were observed leav
ing the tunnels from the B-level subbase
ment. One ran and the other was stopped 
and identified. He said they were just look
ing around. A person fitting the description 
of the other was stopped at a fraternity 
driveway. They were informed that a re
port would be filed.
2/4 SUSPICIOUS PERSONS 6:34 pm 
Call from E&S library that a white, 6-foot 
tall male with reddish hair was asking stu
dents to check out books for him. The actor 
was identified and stated that he does this 
often. The books he had on his person were 
returned. He was told that if he returned, he 
would be arrested for trespassing.
2/4 THEFT 9:59 pm Victim stated per
sons unknown removed a two-tone wallet. 
Six dollars in cash and credit cards were 
taken.
2/5 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 9:45 am 
Report of water leak in Wean Hall 4300 
corridor. Found that persons unknown had 
pulled an emergency sprinkler shower.
Failed transformer 
caused blackout
continued from page I
by PCB's (toxic chemicals), was in no way af
fected or damaged by the problem with the* 
switch gear, asserted Mike Corletti Director of 
Campus Operations; it merely shut down.
The electrical needs of the campus were re
routed through another transformer and elec
tricity was restored to the whole campus by 
about 7:30 pm.
There was no need to shut down the trans
former in order to fix it, since the university is 
currently running at full capacity. A partial 
shutdown will occur at a later date: the campus 
community will be informed. It is to be 
planned at a time which will inconvenience the 
fewest people, stated Electrical Foreman 
George Jones.
The leak, however, has been sealed, and ac
cording to Jones, plans are being made to build 
a metal, porch-like roof over the equipment to 
insure that this sort of thing does not happen 
again.
In case of emergencies such as a power 
failure. Wean is equipped with an emergency 
generator. The generator is supposed to be 
turned on automatically with a loss of power. 
The generator provides corridor lighting as 
well as illuminating exit signs.
There was, as many students know, a prob
lem with the emergency generator. It failed to 
turn on automatically. This left the hallways 
and corridors of the academic buildings totally 
dark, creating a hazardous situation for those 
trying to navigate the cave-like passages of 
many of the academic buildings.
After a substantial time delay, the generator 
was started manually. According to Corletti 
action is being taken to guard against such 
mishap in the future.
Carnegie Mellon 
Ambassadors
88s
Would you like to:
- Have dinner with Dr. Cyert
- Give a campus tour to Israeli ambassor
- Meet ex-governor Dick Thornburg
- Attend a reception with Peter Ueberroth
These are just some of the advantages of being a Carne
gie Mellon Ambassador. To find out more about the 
program, plan to attend one of the informational meet
ings. They are scheduled for Thursday, February 11 and
Wednesday, February 17 in Porter Hall 225C 
at 5 p.m.
Application forms are available at the Skibo Infor
mation Desk, the circulation desk at Hunt Library 
and at the University Relations Office at 5017 
Forbes Avenue.
Requirements:
- Full-time undergraduate student
- QPA of at least 2.5
- Outstanding communication and leadership skills
Applications must be returned to the Office of 
Special Events, 3030 Hamburg Hall, no later than
5 p.m., February 19.
The Carnegie Mellon Ambassador program is sponsored 
by the University Relations Division

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
-----------
How dark was it when the lights went out?
Sometimes it takes an emergency to show you how really 
unprepared you are.
Just look at Physical Plant and Campus Security. Look at last 
Tuesdays blackout.
At approximately 1:15 pm, water from the recent heavy rains 
apparently seeped into Wean Hall and leaked onto a power 
cable. The power cable, in turn, charred and burned through 
causing a large electrical explosion which blew up the trans
former located in the Wean 4500 corridor.
Theoretically, a power interruption such as this will cause an 
emergency generator to start up that will light stairwells, 
hallways, and power the fire alarm system. Moreover, Security 
should evacuate any building after an explosion  especially 
when PCBs are involved as in a transformer explosion.
In practice, though, the emergency generator never came on. 
Weans cave-like halls were completely dark. The fire alarm 
system never sounded. Security didnt arrive for 20 minutes.
Luckily, the explosion didnt cause a fire  but, what if...
What if the hallways had been filled with smoke? Think about 
it: the exit signs were unlit, the stairs were unmarked, and no one 
was there to offer any assistance.
Thats a fairly grim picture for someone trapped in the build
ing, but given the events of the past week, it isnt so improbable.
Clearly, both Physical Plant and Security need to make some 
major changes.
First, in case of a more serious emergency, there needs to be 
a coordinated evacuation system. Security needs to respond 
quickly to get people out and keep them out, and Security needs 
to work with Physical Plant. There were reports that Physical 
Plant personnel permitted people to return to the building after 
the initial explosion only to be forced out later by Security.
Emergency, battery-powered lights should be installed in 
stairways, hallways, and areas devoid of natural light. Having 
to grope out of a potentially smoke-filled building in the dark is 
ludicrous. It makes more sense to have small, independent light 
sources rather than one big generator that sees action only in an 
emergency.
The fire alarm system needs to be re-wired. What good is a fire 
alarm that doesnt work when theres a fire? Maybe this was 
only a fluke, but maybe there are lives at stake here.
Unless something is done soon, Wean Hall is a deathtrap 
waiting to be sprung. What happens next time?
7:30 exams dont work
Last Tuesday students in Physics II took an exam at 7:30 in the 
morning  the first such early morning exam after a Novem
ber MCS mandate declared that no exam could be scheduled 
after 4:30 in the afternoon.
Physics II is one of several science core courses that all MCS 
and CIT students must take in their freshman year. With few 
exceptions, the entire MCS and CIT freshman class is enrolled 
in the course.
The purpose of the MCS declaration is to allow universitywide free hours, which run from 4:30 to 6:30 each day, to remain 
open. The free hours are intended to allow students to partici
pate in activities without conflict with their classes.
The problem with a 7:30 exam, however, is that students who 
plan to eat breakfast prior to taking the test must get up by 6:30. 
This means that to get 8 hours of sleep, they must be in bed by 
10:30.
But quiet hours in the dorms dont start until midnight during 
the week. Add to this the fact that these students are attempting 
to go to sleep at least two hours before they normally do, and it 
makes for a sleepless night.
The result  aside from irritated freshmen  is students who 
cannot concentrate on the test theyre taking.
Insead of making students get up early, MCS should schedule 
exams at 6:30, after free time is over. Students who have 6:30 
classes should be offered the option of taking the tests an hour 
early, at 5:30. With a maximum of four tests a semester, thats 
only a minor infraction of free time.
Lets move tests to the evening  where students can take 
them fully awake.
He* Qo ~y fu**
THE SrAIKSftT?
i) )
Letters:
Reader angered by du Pont profile(>).
Editor:
It is well known that the Tartan has 
a distinct liberal to leftist bent when 
reporting the news (except for Mr. 
Solomon, keep up the good work 
guys). However, what I find appall
ing is the profile of Presidential Can
didate Pete du Pont presented in the 
Feb. 2 issue. As this article was not 
on the Op-Ed page I would think that 
it would have been much more ob
jective. While the article graciously 
spells out almost all you would ever 
care to know about Mickael Dukakis
and his political career, the author 
gave only a cursory overview of Pete 
du Pont. After the author states that 
du Pont is the most pons^rvative of 
the Republican candidates, he states 
that there is ...not much else to tell. 
Any candidate for president de
serves more than this. The article 
then berates du Pont as A stere
otypical Republican, he attended 
private schools.... The author must 
be feeling very guilty by attending 
this private institution which is, as 
we all know, a regular hot-bed of
right wing activities. The article 
then, almost on a passing note, 
mentions possibly du Ponts best 
campaign proposal, that of making 
Social Security voluntary. I feel that 
this is one of the best ideas to come 
out of this campaign season and 
should have been expounded on.
In closing, I would hope that The 
Tartan would spend more time re
searching its political profiles. Even 
though the author may not approve 
of any of the Republican candidates 
it is his professional journalistic 
duty to present an objective view, 
unless of course he is on the Op-Ed 
page.
t
David R. George
Senior, Civil Engineering
Economics
and
Contra had right to speak
I am not going to tell you who to 
believe and I am not going to tell you 
who is right. I want to tell you what 
I think is wrong. A college education 
is designed to teach us creative and 
original thought, possibly with the 
goal of seeking some sort of truth 
in the world. The Constitution guar
antees freedom of speech to help us 
reach this goal. Additionally, the 
ideal democracy only makes just 
decisions when individuals support 
their ideas publicly and wholeheart
edly. Students and members of the 
faculty frequently speak in defense 
of these academic freedoms, yet
continued on page 10
Editor:
Whether anyone wanted to hear 
him or not, the Contra representative 
had a right to speak. Surprisingly, 
not everyone in the audience seemed 
to think so. It seems ironic that the 
same people who heckled, inter
rupted and insulted the speaker were 
probably many of the same people 
who just a few months ago com
plained that they were not allowed to 
speak out against SEI. In this case I 
think a more civil route would be to 
arrange for speakers on both sides of 
the issueinstead of the screaming 
chaos that brought an end to the fo
rum.
Ed. note: After searching over a pe
riod of three months at tno libraries 
for biographical information on 
Gov. Pierre du Pont, I can appreci
ate Mr. Georges remarks. Current' 
Biography, which has profiled the 
candidates in the presidential race, 
has failed to run an article on duPont. The Tartans copy of The 
Almanac of American Politics gives 
only two short paragraphs on duPont, shorter than all others save Al
exander Haigs single paragraph. I 
also searched diligently for an ar-4 
ticle that was exclusively on the du 
Pont campaign.
As for my use of the parenthetic 
expression stereotypical Republi
canthe Almanac states: "In per
sonal style du Pont looks straight 
from the Preppy Handbook; but hes 
anything but stuffy: he is friendly 
and affable....His early reputation^ 
was as a moderate Republican.
The profiles are not intended to be 
dry resumes of candidates; they are, 
however, thoroughly researched 
and objectively written.
Eric W. Leuliette 
Tartan News Editor

---------------------------------------------------

February 9,1988The TartanPage 9
A hard line for democracy may come too late
By RUSS COOPER
The Democratic candidates show little sup
port towards the fight for freedom now ensu
ing in Nicaragra. They hold to the naive belief 
that diplomacy will triumph. In doing so, they 
choose to ignore the long record of deceit com
piled by the Sandinistas or by communists 
the world over. 
Whereas they may 
charge the current 
administration with misconduct in supporting 
the Contras, they cannot reject the notion that 
the goals of the policy have always been 
absolute democracy. No compromises.
The Democrats may find this last idea hard to 
discern, since their record of promoting and 
protecting democracy from the threat of com
munism has been one of two extremes. It 
seems they have spent half the 20th century 
entangling us in wars to fight for the freedoms 
of people around the globe (e.g. Europe twice, 
Korea, and Vietnam), and the other half de
serting entire populations, as well as strategic 
interests, to totalitarian and non-supportive 
it iterests. The former is not as intolerable an 
act, for war seems to have the inherent cost that 
must be occasionally paid to protect the rights
Inquiring Minds:
and freedoms that so many people of the world 
cherish. It is the other side of the Democrats, 
the one that carelessly abandons countries and 
their citizens that is most upsetting.
Perhaps there are just not as many political 
rewards for supporting freedom abroad as 
there are for supporting a welfare state at 
home. Whatever the reasons, the Democratic 
party has become the embodiment of Munich. 
Judging from recent rhetoric, this legacy con
tinues.
1945: With the U.S. in its most powerful po
litical and military position this century (in
cluding sole proprietorship of nuclear lever
age), an indecisive FDR fails to hold the Sovi
ets to the Yalta agreement, subjecting the 
whole of Eastern Europe to communist control 
to this day. Well, it was on the other side of the 
Atlantic.
1961: John F. Kennedy fails to go the whole 
route, leaving freedom fighters to be gunned 
down on the beaches at the Bay of Pigs. Just in 
case this does not properly display enough 
lack of concern for communism 90 miles from 
our border, next year he will trade Russian 
missiles for an agreement that condones the 
communists regime in Cuba indefinitely. The 
other guy blinked, right?
1979: Jimmy Carter, fa- going the thoughts
of all those before him, reaches the brilliant 
conclusion that the Panama Canal is really not 
strategically important. Using all the national 
self-defamation that only Democrats are ca
pable of conjuring up, he decides we dont 
belong there, and gives it away.
1989: Newly elected President Simon (such 
an absurd assumption only serves as a vehicle 
for the narrative) abandons all funding and 
support for the Contras, yet is amazed six 
months later to find Daniel Ortega has 
cancelled elections, closed newspapers, filled 
the jails with political prisoners, and swelled 
the ranks of the army to 600,000. Simon con
tends that the internal affairs of Nicaragra are 
none of our business. It is such a small country 
anyway.
1990: Panama, El Salvador, and Costa Rica become internal affairs of Nicaraugra as well,
as well, as the Sandinistas, with the help of the 
Cubans, export troops and revolution through
out the entire region. The good news is that the 
Cubans actually have to remove troops from 
Angola to support their goals in Central 
America. President Simon sends special 
ambassador J immy Carter to the region. Carter 
returns and says he thinks the Sandinistas
Finally, an Inquiring Mind in Iowa
By THE INQUIRING STAFF
0J Count your blessings folks. Starting today, 
no more live broadcasts from Des Moines. 
Iowas 15 minutes of fame, though they 
seemed like six months, are finally over with. 
Think hard and you might remember seeing 
Edye Tarbox live in 
front of the Iowa state 
capital talking about 
farm subsidies with 
Albert Gore.
The Iowa caucus has transformed Presidentmaking. No longer do twenty-or-so party 
bosses decide who will represent the Demo
crats and Republicans on the first Tuesday of 
November. Instead, in a much fairer system, 
one million farmers and other unemployed 
folk attend barbecues, lectures, and Tupperware parties to decide who will be our next 
^President.
It is a clumsy system, but it works. Before the 
caucuses, the Democrats fielded candidates 
like Hubert Humphrey and George 
McGovern. Now theyre giving us much bet
ter people like Jimmy Carter and Walter 
Mondale.
The Republicans used to run the likes of 
Richard Nixon and Barry Goldwater. Todays 
^system produces Ronald Reagan and George 
Bush. Thats conclusive proof that the system 
has worked infinitely better for the Democrats 
than the Republicans.
Only a system like this could make Paul Si
mon, the Les Nesman of the 80s, a serious 
candidate let alone a front runner. You would 
think that Iowans would realize, just like those 
brilliant New Hampshire voters, that Michael 
^Dukakis is the clearly superior candidate. 
Iowans do have one redeeming feature; they 
dont like Pat Robertson either.
As we just alluded to, the most redeeming 
feature of the entire Iowa process is that it 
means we dont have take New Hampshire as 
seriously any more. The caucus seems so 
American: a bunch of people sitting at home, 
watching commercial after commercial, de
ciding who will spend four years at 1600 
Pennsylvania Avenue.
Just what exactly is this caucus process? 
According to The Almanac of American Poli
tics, On frigid January nights Iowans gather 
in designated schools, public buildings, or just 
someones house, and caucus. They divide 
themselves into groups according to presiden
tial preference (or non-preference) and elect 
delegates to their county conventions; those
delegates are entitled later in the season to 
elect delegates to the state convention in ac
cordance with the presidential preference 
expressed at the county level, which is then 
finally translated into presidential convention 
delegates.
Thats quite a mouthful. We didnt even 
know that caucus was a verb, but this is what 
we think it means. A bunch of farmers, who 
cant pay their heating bills, gather at the 
mortgaged grange hall. Hors doevres first, 
then a little bridge. North leads with Pete 
DuPont, East raises to Alexander Haig, finally 
West bids seven no-trump, Bob Dole.
Its like electing your High School Honor 
Society President, whoever has the most 
friends wins. But, these people dont actually 
vote for their choices. Instead they elect their 
county delegates, who elect state delegates, 
who, unless they remember who they were 
supposed to elect in the first place, vote for any 
delegates they damn well feel like. Perhaps
Left Turn:
someone from Iowa thought of the electoral 
college.
Thats why the caucuses (or cauci) are so 
early. If they were any later, Iowa would still 
be deciding between John Glenn and Alan 
Cranston.
Why Iowa? Frankly, it probably is the best 
choice. Take a look at the other possible states. 
California would try to give us Governor Jerry 
Moonbeam Brown again, not to mention the 
last California Governor who became Presi
dent. New Yorkers would sit at home waiting 
for Mario to decide. Pennsylvania would 
nominate someone who would just shoot his 
mouth off.
Were better off with nice, boring Iowa. 
After all, we couldnt have the candidates 
campaign in Hawaii; theyd never come back. On second thought...
The Inquiring Staff is S. Levine,
C. Williams and R. Wilson
The Devil in Tasmania
By MICHAEL FRANZINI &
MICHAEL WITBROCK
Last week, Australia began to celebrate the 
two hundredth anniversary of the landing of 
the first white settlers. Speeches were made, 
fireworks set off, and a replica fleet of colonial 
vessels sailed into Sydney harbor. It is under
standable that a coun
try should want to cele
brate its origins, espe
cially when the coun
try is as outwardly suc
cessful as Australia.
Unfortunately, the celebration hides a num
ber of skeletons in Australias closet. The 
skeletons are not those of the convicts whose 
presence established the countrys early his
tory as a penal colony. The fact that a prosper
ous nation has been built by people whom 
English society condemned as petty criminals 
should be a matter of pride, not shame. No, the 
skeletons belong to the tens of thousands of 
aborigines who died as Australia was being 
built. Like many other colonies, Australia 
already had a population when it was settled 
from Britain. Two hundred years ago, 300,000 
people lived in Australia, as they had for 40 
millennia before. By 1922, only four genera
tions later, abuse, dispossession and outright
promise to behave. Those countries are so 
backwards anyway!
1995: Mexico is in economic turmoil after a 
couple years of competitive trade quotas insti
tuted against it by President Gephardt. The 
situation turns to instability and chaos. 
Sandinista troops cross the border and restore 
government control to the country. Unfortu
nately, it is the control of their communist 
government. Meanwhile President Gephardt 
says that the matter has come to his attention, 
and announces that he will ask Congress to 
create a committee to look into the phenome
non of Marxist-Leninist expansion.
He suggests that there is no cause to worry. 
Hell, Mexico is so far away, they dont even 
speak English way down there!
1998: President Carter, elected to a second 
term of office, is quoted as saying, We really 
didn't need Texas anyway.  He goes on to say 
that he and Comrade Ortega will begin a new 
Camp David summit to discuss the future of 
California. He feels the outcome will again 
prove to the world that peace and diplomacy 
will always triumph over aggression.
massacre had reduced this population to 
50,000. Gerry Hand, the Labour Govern
ments minister for Aboriginal Affairs, is 
boycotting the celebration, saying, Anybody 
that suggests aboriginal people have a lot to 
celebrate this year as a result of the last 200 
years hasnt taken much note of history.
Perhaps the most brutal episode in Austra
lian history occurred in Tasmania, an island 
slightly smaller than Maine, at the bottom east 
of Australia. Imagine the white inhabitants of 
Maine arming themselves, forming a line 
along the coast, and walking west to Canada, 
killing every black person in their path. Thats 
what happened to the aborigines in Tasmania.
Even in the 20th century, when the killing 
had abated, the aborigines continued to be dis
possessed of their land and stripped of their 
dignity. William Boyce, an American ex
plorer, writing in the 1920s, saw nothing 
strange in commenting that All, however, are 
agreed that the bushman, or blackfellow, as he 
is more commonly called, is the most primi
tive of human kind. ... he, like all black men, 
has not developed. He has stood still since the 
dawn of history  indeed, he has no history, 
no tradition worthy of the name. Rand 
McNally saw nothing strange in the insult.
continued on page 10
HERBLOCKS CARTOON
The Tartan
Editor-in-Chief............................. Karl Barnhart
Managing Editor.........................Erika L. Peterson
Business Manager..........................Russ Seligman
News Editor................................Erie W. Leuliette
Assistant News Editor.....................Chris Young
Features Editors.........................Judy Haraburda
Howdy Pierce
Sports Editor............................ .............Josh Ruben
Assistant Sports Editor...................Stewart Irvine
Diversions Editor.............................Michael Rose
Photo Assignment Editor..............Andy Gillespie
Art Editor..................................(rant Carmichael
Literary Editor...........................Michele Osherow
Ad & Production Manager...........Dustin Frazier
Copy Editor.....................................David N. Levy
Contributing Editors...................................................
Drue Miller Neil Greenblum
Albrecht T. Powell John Friedmann
Mark Benish Bruce Kasrel
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie MoHon University 
It is a weekly newspaper, published by students eqph Tuesday during 
the fall and spring semesters, at no cost to members of the university 
community It is printed by Typecratt Press Inc Sutecnpbons are 
available for $15 per semester $25 per year The Editorial appearing 
at the beginning of the opinion section is the official opinion of The 
Tartan editorial board Columns are the opinions of individual au
thors who are not necessarily on The Tartan edtfonal board or staff 
Letters to the Editor are opinions Vo indnndual authors who are 
usually members of the University community A letter intended tor 
publication must be signed and include the writer s address and phone 
number for verification Names wiH be withheld upon request The 
Tartan reserves the right to condense or refect any letter or column. 
Copyright 1988 by The Tartan The editorial board reserves Ihe nght 
to withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit tor pubfccatan
Office: Skibo 50 (412)268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17 / Carnegie 
Mellon University / Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
Funded in pari by the Activities Fee. AN rights 
reserved. Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanFebruary 9,1988
Letters. cont.What good is freedom of speech?
continued from page 8
last Tuesday night I was shocked by the viola
tions flying left and right.
Once we have freedom of speech, what good 
is it? What if academics wrote their ideas 
down, but would not support them? Without 
someone to support changes in the system, 
nothing will ever be done. My second com
plaint about the evening may seem small, but 
1 felt it was very significant. One individual 
held up a large poster saying the speaker was 
lying. When the channel 4 video camera 
turned on him, he turned his back to the cam
era. His face could not be seen, yet the sign still 
faced forward. Regardless of who is saying 
what, if people are going to express their 
views, they should take pride in what they are 
saying; hell, even LaRouche puts his name on 
what he says!
Lots of people called lots of other people 
liars. 1 can't make any judgments about most 
of them, since I only know some of the facts. 
But, I have one lie to point out which I find the
most surprising event of the night. The shout
ing protesters were slightly calmed because 
they were told repeatedly there would be a 
question and answer session at the end of the 
speech. Well, I guess it was almost true; there 
was one question, but Im not really sure there 
was an answer. The speaker claimed he had to 
catch a plane. Well, I assume (I may be wrong) 
the Republican Club was aware of this. Maybe 
they should have planned a little more care
fully, but regardless, they should not have lied 
to the crowd; after all, arent most peoples 
complaints about politics based on lies told to 
the public? I see no need to start this at college..
Heckling, hiding and lying are not ways to 
protect our academic freedoms. Last Tuesday 
night I was ashamed as a liberal, aconserva
tive, a Democrat and a Republican, but most 
importantly, I was ashamed as a student of 
Carnegie Mellon University.
Marc Roston 
Freshman, H&SS
Academic Computing explains policies
Editor:
Carnegie Mellon has long prided itself in 
being on the leading edge of computer tech
nology, both in development and in providing 
access to a variety of computer systems on its 
campus. The latter is the purpose of Academic 
Computing (AC): to provide and manage most 
of the computer clusters on campus. In addi
tion to simply providing machines for students 
and faculty to use, AC provides a consulting 
service to go with them.
In ten staffed and three unstaffed clusters on 
campus there are approximately 350 machines 
for public use: Andrew workstations, IBM 
PCs and Apple Macintoshes. In addition, 
nearly all these computers are linked to main
frame Vax systems and Dec-20s. AC is one 
of the few organizations on campus that is in 
operation 24 hours a day, with consultants 
always on call to help students with problems. 
Each cluster is staffed at all times by a student 
PC consultant who is there to hand out soft
ware and answer general questions. The PC 
consultants, or PCons, cannot be expected to 
be able to answer every question. For this 
reason, AC provides three other ways users 
can get answers to their questions.
First, 1-5 page handouts are available in 
every cluster for users to take which summa
rize the main features of many software pack
ages available in the clusters.
For even more difficult questions there are 
the Academic Computing hotlines. The hot
line (x2667) is staffed from 8 am to midnight 
on weekdays, noon to 6 pm on Saturdays and 
noon to midnight on Sundays by a user con
sultant who is well versed in the computer sys
tems on campus.
Finally, AC supplies and maintains a mailing 
address known as ADVISOR. ADVISOR is 
accessible by simply sending mail to it from 
any mainframe system on campus.
AC must have its rules and procedures to 
make sure this service does not diminish. For 
example, to check out software in any of the 
clusters, the user must have a valid ID. Since 
CMU pays for the services given by AC, only 
students and faculty should be allowed to 
make use of these services. In addition, requir
ing a CMU ID provides some insurance 
against software theft.
Internally, Academic computing is an or
ganization like any other, although its struc
ture must be flexible to accommodate a rapidly 
changing and expanding computing environ
ment. Almost every cluster on campus is 
staffed by student PCons who work part time 
in various clusters. Each cluster is managed by 
a Cluster Head. The Cluster Head acts as a 
supervisor; they have charge over their cluster 
schedules and their cluster PCons.
The 180 or so PCons, 11 Cluster Heads and 
6 Assistant Cluster Heads, as well as 12 User
Consultants all report to two people: Gary 
Aulfinger and Sandy Zeher. Gary Aulfinger, 
as Cluster Personnel Supervisor, is in charge 
of the hiring and training of student consult
ants, raise reviews and allocating computer 
accounts. Sandy Zeher, the Cluster Facilities 
Supervisor, works as a liason between Physi
cal Plant and the PC Service Group to keep the 
clusters clean and in working order as well as 
being in charge of security and supplies. 
Chuck Augustine, as Assistant director of 
Academic Computing, oversees Sandy and 
Gary.
Academic Computings first priority is to 
provide a service for the users at CMU, 
whether they are students or faculty. In the 
past, that service has not been as good as it 
could have been. This semester there have 
been many changes in policy which should 
iron out many of these problems. Examples of 
these improvements are:
1. The redistribution of responsibilities be
tween the Cluster Personnel and Cluster Fa
cilities supervisor. Before, PCons often did 
not know who their boss was or who they were 
supposed to ask for specific problems. Now 
these responsibilities are well-defined.
2. The institution of the Maintenance 
BBoard, which all PCons can post to and 
which the PC Service Group reads. This 
BBoard cuts down the time between a machine 
breaking and someone coming in to fix it from 
several weeks to a few days.
3. Better organization of software mainte
nance. PCons, at the end of their shifts, are 
required to count disks. Disks vanish and go 
bad. Cluster Heads alert Peggy Seiden, the 
Software Manager, to what needs replaced.
4. Finally, suggestion boxes will be put in all 
the clusters. Users will be encouraged to offer 
suggestions or complaints on policy, sugges
tions for additions to the software already 
supplied, or problems with specific PCons.
Academic Computing has grown rapidly in 
the past few years. They have more than 
doubled the number of computers available 
and increased dramatically the number of 
programs available to run on these computers. 
Thanks to coordination with academic depart
ments throughout Carnegie Mellon, classes 
are able to utilize the power of computers to 
improve education. But more still needs to be 
done. ACs consultants and staff are proud of 
the work they do; with input from the campus 
community AC can become even better.
Laura Lemay 
Cluster Head, MMP 
Junior, English
Gary Aulfinger
Cluster Personnel Supervisor
Senior, Mechanical Engineering
By George  By Dan
By ART BUCHWALD
The George Bush-Dan Rather brawl, 
which historians now refer to as The Nine 
Minutes That Shook the World, has left 
many Republicans embittered. Strangely enough, none of 
them are Bush 
supporters. While 
outwardly out
raged at Dan 
Rather for beating 
up on their candi
date, the Bush 
people are pri
vately rejoicing at 
their good for
tune.
Our boy is no 
longer a wimp, a 
Bush campaign 
chief told me. He 
stared at the toughest anchorman in television and 
Rather blinked.
There seems to be no joy in the other Re
publican camps.
Managers of Dole, Kemp, Robertson, 
Haig and du Pont met in a Pizza Hut in 
Ames, Iowa last week to discuss the 
ominous turn in the primary.
The Vice President was ambushed by 
CBS, the Haig man said. This means only 
one thing. CBS must sandbag our candi
dates too. We cant let Bush walk away 
with the anti-media vote just because the 
anchorman verbally assaulted him on the 
evening news.
The Dole manager was even more bitter. 
Rather owes it to us to make our guys look 
lousy. If he doesnt rough us up, Bush 
walks into the White House. When it comes 
to TV dumping on candidates, there is such 
a thing as equal time.
A1 Haigs aid said, The thing that gets me 
mad is not only did Bush go up in the polls 
because of CBS, but the money is pouring 
in. Its not George Bush money but antiRather money that is flooding his head
quarters.
The du Pont man had a suggestion. What 
if we go to CBS and apologize to Rather on 
behalf of the Vice President? Wont that 
make him look like a wimp again?
Pat Robertsons representative said, I 
think we should pray the whole thing blows 
over. God tells me its hopeless to believe
Rather would get into a shouting match with 
all of us after he saw how much good it did 
George Bush.
George never even answered Rathers 
question, Pierre du Ponts man said.Kemps lieuten
ant replied, He 
didnt have to an
swer the question. 
All he had to do 
was sit there and 
object to Dans 
asking it. It was a 
set-up from start to 
finish and were 
the losers.
Haigs man said, 
Rather should 
have never let 
Bush go on his 
television show. 
After all, how does the anchorman defend himself against a 
Vice President of the United States who 
stonewalls him right through the commer
cials?
Dan should have known what he was get
ting into when he tangled with a Yale man, 
the Kemp representative said.
Will George do any future interviews 
with Rather?
Im sure of it, the Dole manager said. I 
heard Bush is so in love with CBS News that 
he has offered to fill in for Lesley Stahl 
when she goes on vacation.
The Haig man slammed his hand on the 
pizza. I say CBS owes us equal time. Dan 
Rather has to be as rude to us as he was with 
Bush or we sue.
The du Pont rep said, Maybe in place of 
an interview Dan could moderate a debate 
and push our candidates when they dont 
answer his query.
The Kemp aid said, Well invoke the unfariness doctrine. When Rather asks our 
candidates a tough question, well act 
wounded.
Doles aid said, Sen. Dole will go along 
with it just to bring some sanity to this race. 
Kemps man raised his hand, Were all 
assuming that Rather will play along with 
us. Suppose CBS wont let him. How do we 
win the anti-media vote then?
Doles man declared, Well get Sam 
Donaldson to yell at us from a meatpacking 
plant in Pocatello, Ida.
CO

A different sort of Tasmanian Devil
continued from page 9
In the 1950s, the British government was al
lowed to conduct nuclear weapons tests on 
Australian territory. When they did so, it was 
on land they knew to be inhabited by aborigi
nes. Only a desultory effort was made to pro
tect the people who lived there and warn them 
of fallout. No compensation was paid at the 
time, and, had it not been for a court case in the 
1980s, none would have been paid at all.
Since the 1930s, the existence of a compre
hensive welfare state has protected this dis
possessed people from the worst effects of 
poverty and disease, allowing the population 
to rise to around 160,000. Indigenous Austra
lians no longer face extinction, but their situ
ation is still unforgivably bad: Infant mortality 
is 3 times the national average, income half the 
average wage, 11 percent have never been to 
school, 44 percent are unemployed, and an 
aborigine is 23 times as likely as other Austra
lians to go to jail.
These figures are not the result of what Mr. 
Boyce termed indolent, easy going ways of 
living; they result from what Justice Marcus 
Einfeld, an Australian human rights official, 
describes as Neglect, injustice, careless
ness... Its prejudice. Australia is beginning
to take notice of the foundation of discrimina
tion and misery beneath its success. Some 
lands have been returned, and Prime Minister 
Bob Hawk has offered a treaty formally ac
knowledging the history of grave injustices 
perpetrated against the aboriginal people.
Such symbolic gestures are important, but 
they do not answer the questions which really 
need to be asked: If the descendents of colo
nists form the majority in a country, what debt 
do they owe those whom their forebears dis-' 
placed? Is their only responsibility to work to 
eliminate injustice in the present, or must they 
provide compensation for injustice in the past? 
The hardest question to answer, however, is 
probably the most important: Is it possible to 
recognize the sovereignty of a countrys in
digenous people whilst maintaining a democ
racy which is fair to its other inhabitants?
In the South Pacific, the status of indigenous'' 
minorities is a question of enormous import. 
The problem is fiercely debated in New Zeal
and and Australia; it has led to civil war in New 
Caledonia and to revolution in Fiji. These 
upheavals have a lesson for Americans, too. 
When was the last time you asked a Native 
American what she thought of the U.S. inva
sion of North America?

---------------------------------------------------

Features!
The Tartan Valentines Day love quiz returns
By JOHN KYRIACOPOULOS &
KELLY SPENCER
Tartan Matchmakers
Matchmaker, Matchmaker, make me a 
match.... Once again, love is in the air, and 
its time to take stock of your mate. To help 
you, weve prepared a short little checklist.
1) Where did you and your intended meet?
a) Wean 5419
b) Standing in line at the Cashiers Office
c) Safe-Sex Symposium
2) How did you spend your first date?
a) Playing Monopoly in Grey Matter
b) Dinner at the Kiltie and a movie in 
Doherty
c) Bouncing around in the back of a pickup truck
3) How would you most like to make love?
a) By computer mail
b) Relaxing on a sandy beach
c) Bouncing around in the back of a pick
up truck
4) What is your biggest worry about making 
love?
a) Forgetting user id
b) Having your roommates walk in
c) Running out of whipped cream
5) What do you fight about most?
a) Whos QPA is higher
b) Who buys
c) Who gets top or bottom
6) How has he/she best demonstrated his/her
love?
a) Letting you print first
b) Champagne and roses
c) Letting you have bottom
7) What is your song?
a) The Rolling Stones You Cant Always 
Get What You Want
Do you care enough to send the very strangest?
m
By RHONDA LANDY
Tartan Staffwriter
Well, Valentines day is coming up, which 
means the pressure is mounting for us to prove 
our unbounded affection for our significant 
others with expensive displays of candy, 
flowers, cards, pink frilly hearts, or any com
bination thereof.
Theres gotta be a better way, I hear every 
February. Is there? Your friendly neighbor
hood raving, roving Tartan reporter went in 
search of the answer to this age-old dilemma. 
There turned out to be many answers, few of 
which were frilly or pink.
I started looking for the answer close to 
home: a Morewood lounge. One girl recalled 
being spoiled rotten by her boyfriend with 
dinner, flowers, and the like on Valentines 
Day. Another remembered a stuffed dog a boy 
gave her when she was in the second grade.
Junior Amanda Cohen showed me her favor
ite: He gave me a balloon in the shape of a 
heart, saying, I love you with all my heart, 
and then an inflatable globe on a ribbon: and 
I wanted to give you the world on a string,' and 
finally, a rubber duck: but Ill have to settle 
for giving you some company in the tub.
Speaking of balloons, those of us who were 
at Carnegie Mellon last year may remember 
sending a balloon or carnation to friends. Chris 
Newell certainly remembers. He didnt have a 
girlfriend, and it was getting him down. Cindy
One girl remembered an elo
quent, yet silly, card: Because 
I like your noses and toeses, 
here are some roses.
Connelly organized an anti-mope campaign 
to cheer him up. Chris received several anony
mous balloons and carnations. He was also 
inundated for days with valentine notes on 
pink paper, some of which came from as far 
away as West Virginia. Cindys personal con
tribution was a frilly saccharine card. Chris 
stopped moping in a hurry.
Sophmore Ruth Delanos memorable valen
tine was also a heart-shaped balloon. Ruth 
mentioned the balloon to me as I surveyed the 
stuffed sweethearts she was selling for A Phi 
O. You can send anyone on campus a teddy
bear, bunny rabbit, or one of several other 
available animals.
If you want to send a more melodious greet
ing, Sigma Alpha Iota, a womens music fra
ternity, is offering singing telegrams.
Junior Linda Branigan received theater tick
ets one Valentines day. Another year, she 
received a dozen dead roses  a valentine 
conveying less-than-friendly sentiments. I 
put them through the blender and sent them 
back.
One girl remembered roses her boyfriend 
gave her not long after their first date, accom
panied by an eloquent, yet silly, card: Be
cause I like your noses and toeses, here are 
some roses.
There are millions of ways to express affec
tion, but there can be no doubt that these 
diverse valentines were memorable for their 
recipients because of one common denomina
tor  a unique way of expressing feelings. I 
hope this article has given you some ideas as to 
how to show someone how you feel about 
them.
After all, anyone can send a pink frilly heart, 
but it takes a true individual to say I love you 
with a rubber duckie.
No hearts. no shooting stars...
Carnegie Mellon: The platonic choice
By DARLENE FOZARD
Tartan Staffviriter 
Its a common problem among Tartan co-eds,* a lack, so to speak, of 
anything akin to romance. No hearts, no shooting stars, no serenading 
violinists gracing Kiltie; Carnegie Mellon: The Platonic Choice. What 
solution is there for lonely hearts other than dreaming about that elusive 
emotion of emotions? Valentines all across campus are longing to 
celebrate the coming holiday with someone special. Perhaps MorePizza 
should deliver romantic prospects along with its food.
b) The Beatles All You Need is Love
c) Judas Priests Turbo Lover
8) What are Your Favorite Pet Names?
a) Pizza Face
b) Honey Bunch
c) oh, oh, uh...Don't stop!
9) What is your favorite flick?
a) Last American Virgin
b) Officer and a Gentleman
c) On Golden Blonde"
10) What would you most like to receive for 
Valentines Day?
a) Spam
b) Flowers
c) K-Y jelly
Scoring
If you mostly chose option a, then you 
shouldnt be reading this article  your life is 
dull, dull, dull. Try a little romance.
If you mostly chose option b, then you're 
like everybody else. Relax, you have nothing 
to worry about.
If you mostly chose option c, then you're a 
sex-starved pair of lustbirds  you need a 
more elaborate checklist.
As February 14th quickly approaches, the unattached grow restless, 
day-dreaming about the sudden appearance of a mate, while those few 
fortunates who are in LOVE, grasp for the perfect way to spend the day. 
Here are a few dreamy, steamy, and several perverse, Valentines Day 
wishes:
When asked his idea of a dream date, junior Paul Sun stated simply, 
Kelly McGillis. I dont care where...on a Carribean cruise. 
Freshman Stefan Savage also desires to make his girl sea-sick:  I 
would fly her out to Italy and go on those gondolas at midnight under 
the water-works.
IM senior Janna Brisco dreams of ...going to 
the ballet, and taking the incline to Mount 
Washington and walking.
One of the more romantic guys out there, who 
shall remain unmentioned, inferred that his 
girlfriend was not his ideal date. What a jerk.
When asked who he wanted to wine and dine, 
graduate student Guy Russo wisely stated, I'd 
get in trouble if I didn't say my wife.
A more explicit couple desires taking a 
bubble bath together...in a heart-shaped tub. 
Probably my favorite dream date comes from 
a friend who wishes to be identified only as Mr. 
Romance:
To be locked in a record store and play Led 
Zeppelin until the speakers blow. 1 guess youcould throw Christie Brinkley in there...if she 
wanted to come.
Ready to pop the question . 
How about....
A Valentines 
Proposal on Ice
Are you planning to ask that special 
someone to marry you? And are you 
looking for that right mood and setting?
How about popping the question  
live  on WAMO Radio at the Schenley Park Ice Skating Rink on Saturday. 
February 13 at 7 pm ? The occasion is A 
Valentines Proposal on Ice, spon
sored by WAMO and Citiparks.
Interested parties, who must be 21 
years of age, need to describe why they 
would like to propose to their Valentine 
in 25 words of less. Candidates should 
send their entries via postcard to 
WAMO Radio 
411 Seventh Avenue 
Suite 150()
Pittsburgh, PA 15219 
by February 8. WAMO will select a 
contest winner on February 9.
The winner will get a chance to sweep 
the woman of his dreams off her feet in 
style. His every word will be broadcast 
live on WAMO (106 FM) from the 
Schenley Park Ice Rink.
The lucky couple will receive roundtrip limousine service to the ice rink and 
to dinner the next day (Valentine's 
Day) followed by a smooth ride to the 
Civic Arena for the Earth, Wind and 
Fire Concert, along with front row tick
ets. The couple will also enjoy a cham
pagne brunch, on Sunday at the 
winner's home, served by one of 
WAMO's on air personalities. But 
that's not all, the winner will also re
ceive a gift certificate for a ladies dia
mond engagement ring to make the 
occasion complete.
Even if you're not going to propose, 
make a date to skate and help set the 
mood for a fantasy-filled Valentines 
Proposal on Ice.
Unless you happen to be a lucky 
WAMO listener whos won free admis
sion passes, admission is $2.00 for 
adults, $1.00 for youth. 18 and under 
and senior citizens, 60 and over. The 
charge for non-residents is $3.00. Skate 
rental is $1.00 and skate sharpening is 
$2.00.
For more information, call WAMO at 
471 -2181 or call Citipaiks at 255-2350.

---------------------------------------------------

w Robitclu 
Resident*
Audrey Lu - CFA 
Campus Affairs
Chris Neighbor - CFA 
Public Relations
StudentSenate
10:3011:30
Skibo Rc
12:30
Umidore
9U
(S^vmliLAe
Hoa Trinh - CIT 
Public Relations
ZPicture 
Wot 
<S%vaihble
Rudy Zung - MCS 
Campus Affairs
Pete Berger - H&SS 
Campus Affairs, Rules
Glenn Kombrek - CFA 
Campus Affairs*, Rules
ZPicture
9Voi
Available
Ari Sklar - CFA 
Campus Affairs
^Picture
Available
Hal Levine - H&SS 
Academic Affairs
Karen Pavlovsky - CXI 
Public Relations, Rule
Christian Herrick - CIT 
Funding & Recognition
Dana Hausman - MCS 
Public Relations
^Picture
9Jol
iS^vadable

---------------------------------------------------

OfficeHours
Room 59
1:30 2:30 3:30 4:30
5Picture 
VHot 
S^vailabe
Don Dennis - IM 
F&R, Rules
CFA
Iules
ZPicture
Available
Lisa Christina - MCS 
Academic Affairs*, Rules
Tamal Mukherjee - CIT 
Funding & Recognition
ZPicture 
Wot
Available
Kerry Skolkin - MCS 
Treasurer, F&R
*LPicture 
Wot 
Available
Dennis Wilke - H&SS 
Campus Affairs, Rules
iPicture 
Wot 
Available
Aaron Solomon - H&SS 
Campus Affairs, Rules
 
* indicates committee chairperson and/or 
member of the executive committee

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanFebruary 9,1988
Explorers undertake diverse outdoor activities
By RHONDA LANDY
Tartan Staffw riter 
Are you tired of the CMU scene? Do you love the great 
outdoors? Do you want to get away from it all" for a while? 
The Explorers Club may be just the thing youre looking for.
The Explorers Club takes trips almost every weekend, usually 
away from the Pittsburgh area. Although there are about 60 or 
70 people in the club, not everyone remains active year-round. 
People interested in sailing and windsurfing, for example, will 
be active during the spring, summer, and early fall. Other 
people are interested in rock climbing, which has a longer 
season.
When there's snow, activities include winter camping, cross
country skiing, and spelunking. Some weekends they go to 
West Virginia or New York State. On longer vacations, such as 
Winter or Spring Break, they may go up to New England or out 
West, depending on what people are interested in doing. 
Were in a nice location out here... because most of the good 
places are no more than an hour or so away. We have places to 
go rock climbing, we have a lot of good place to go kayaking, 
we have caves, hiking trails, and there are places to go cross
country skiing, says the clubs President Mark Fair.
Many of the clubs activities, such as rock climbing, require 
a lot of skills. That's why the club offers instructional sessions 
throughout the year. In the fall, for example, when people are 
just starting with the club, there are a lot of beginners rockclimbing trips. There are also beginners trips for kayaking as 
well. Throughout the year, there are also pool sessions for 
people interested in kayaking. Javier Guzman told me, We 
take them into the pool here and teach them how to maneuver 
the kayak and how to do an eskimo roll so that once theyre on 
the river, theyre better prepared for what they might face. 
The club, he said, is primarily oriented toward beginners, 
people whove never done this before and are interested in 
going out and experiencing these sorts of things. The more 
experienced members like Fair and Guzman provide instruc
tion, both formal and informal as people mature in their skills.
One problem encountered by people who are interested in 
outdoor activities is that they can be an expensive pursuit. To 
that effect, the club has a lot of equipment for equipment
intensive sports such as kayaking, so that a person who is 
interested doesnt have to buy all their own equipment. Much 
of what the club has is technical equipment, some tents and a 
few backpacks, sailboats, and even a windsurfer (personal 
equipment like hiking boots would have to be bought by the 
individual). Members can bring club equipment on officially 
sponsored trips. This helps keep the cost down  members are 
expected to chip in for food and gas when they go on trips, and 
the dues are only three dollars a year.
The Explorers Club was founded in the fifties by Professor 
Hugh Young, who was a graduate student at the time, and 
several other students. Young and a group of friends went cave
exploring. There are various situations in caves that require 
rock climbing techniques, such as getting in and out of pits, so 
the group met a few experienced climbers who wound up 
running a rock climbing school in which several members of 
the group participated. At that time they decided to form an 
organization to provide a kind of meeting ground for people 
who were interested in various outdoor activities, such as rock 
climbing, white water boating, cave exploring, and second, to 
provide an organized way of teaching beginners the techniques 
of those sports because of the hazard associated with these 
activities. They felt it was very important to teach people safe
spelunking, climbing, and boating. We have never liked to 
think of ourselves as a lets-all-go-out-and-kill-ourselves sort 
of group, but rather can-we-do-this-in-a-way-that-is-fun-andstill-reasonably-safe? said Young.
Back then, Y oung was one of the clubs most active members, 
especially in terms of teaching climbing techniques. They 
didnt have their own equipment back then, so they would rent 
canoes from the Red Cross or the Boy Scouts and take a three 
or four day trip of a river, such as the west branch of the 
Susquehanna, the Clarion river, the upper Allegheny. One 
year, they had as many as 24 people, although the average was 
somewhere around 12 or 15. That was always one of the 
highlights of the years activity, reminisced Young.
The Explorers Club meets every Thursday at 6:30 pm in 
Baker Hall 225-C. They discuss trips taken the weekend 
before, and plan trips for the upcoming weekend.
Their next big event should be a rock climbing expedition 
down to Seneca Rocks during Midsemester break. Theyre 
going to have various kinds of activities, including backpack
ing, so there will be about six carloads going. Anyone inter
ested in that trip should show up at the next meeting so theyll 
know in advance that youre interested in going. They dont 
take beginners for a rock climbing expedition. For an activity 
like rock climbing, they would expect you to have attended 
several of their instructional sessions. Most instructional ses
sions for rock climbing are in the fall, though some are in the 
spring. Those sessions, like almost all of the clubs activities, 
are not scheduled far in advance.
One of the nicest things about the club is that it provides a 
means of relaxation for CMU students. I think its definitely 
an escape, mused Professor Young, when youre trying to 
climb a tough vertical rock face, youre not going to be worried 
about next weeks calculus assignment. Youve got more 
immediate things on your mind. And I think theres something 
thats very, very refreshing and very revitalizing to get in
volved with this kind of physical challenge.... Theres a tre
mendous satisfaction in it for me, and, I think, for everybody 
that gets involved [the Explorers Club], Its an excellent way to 
get your mind off of the more intellectual pressures that we 
have here.
Are you brave enough to eat unknown food without gagging?
If you answered yes to three of these questions (or even one!), we may be
looking for your kindANNOUNCING A SEARCH FOR CANDIDATES FOR FRESHMAN 
ORIENTATION CHAIRPERSON!
If you've got ABILITIES and ENERGY and SKILLS with people, 
LET US KNOW!! 
Interviews start February 18th 
Pick up applications at the Office of Student Affairs
Are you good with musical instruments?
evenb\indty
Can yu
olivate peop*
foUoW

---------------------------------------------------

February 9,1988The TartanPage 15
Dieting: the choice of a new generation
By HOWDY PIERCE
Tartan Features Co-Editor 
A little over one month into 1988 is 
a great time to remember those New 
Years Resolutions and see how youre doing. 
Think about 
that diet you 
were going to 
go on. (Yuck.) 
Are you satis
fied with the weight youve lost, or 
do you want to shed more pounds?
According to Leslie Bonci, Clini
cal Instructor at the Clinical Dietet
ics and Nutrition Program at Pitts 
Falk Clinic, weight loss of about two 
' pounds per week can be a realistic 
goal for college students.
First of all, my advice is to eat 
small, frequent meals, Bonci states. 
Id advise eating four or five meals 
per day. Even with campus meal 
plans which favor fewer, larger 
meals, Bonci recommends a small 
snack in the afternoon.
The way to lose weight without 
skipping meals is to watch what you 
eat. Cutting down on fat is a key 
strategy in any diet plan  which 
means watching out for salad dress
ing, fried foods, sour cream, and 
butter. Instead, try to concentrate on 
the fruits and vegetables while at the 
salad bar. Beverages are also a hid
den source of calories  stick to 
juices, lowfat milk, or water.
Snacking is an integral part of a
Caffeine: Drug of choice?
ji-, tiAwnv Dit'Dri?Uy ItUTTlli
Tartan Features Co-Editor 
Many students rely on caffeine as a stimulant to keep up with their 
homework. But, warns Leslie Bonci, there are many caveats to using 
that six-pack of Jolt for an all-night problem set.
Bonci recommends avoiding pep pills such as No-Doz and 
Vivarin. Instead, she suggests drinking tea and coffee  without 
cream and sugar they have almost no calories. But dieters should be 
aware that caffeine decreases blood sugar levels, leading directly to
Students should also know that caffeine drinkers exhibit a thresh
old response. The more often caffeine is used as a stimulant, the 
larger the quantity required to maintain the desired effect.
In addition to inducing wakefulness, caffeine increases stomach 
acidity, depletes iron from the body, and may lead to an irregular 
heartbeat. Bonci recommends a maximum of three or four servings 
a day.
diet, but only certain snacks are 
beneficial. Dry snacks are recom
mended  crackers, fruit, airpopped popcorn, unsalted pretzels, 
and bagels or Italian bread are all on 
the approved list.
Bonci suggests eating meat only 
once a day to lose weight. But, she 
stresses, it probably isnt good to 
skip meat entirely. However, she 
does recommend holding eggs to 
three per w'eek, primarily due to the 
high cholesterol content.
Cutting down on the size of serv
ings at mealtimes is another dieting 
idea. Continue to eat many of the 
same foods just dont eat as much 
of them.
Like alcohol and drugs, alcohol 
and diets dont mix that well. 
Alcohols basically calories, 
Bonci says. It also increases the 
appetite, so you tend to eat more. 
She advocates only three drinks per 
weekend, and suggests that the 
drinker eat before drinking.
An important aspect of dieting is 
not to become too over-conscious of 
calories. A healthy ration for a college-age male who isnt too active is 
1800 to 2200 calories daily. For 
women, 1500 to 1800 calories per 
day should fit the bill. More active 
people should plan on more calories.
Remember, though, that some 
days it will be impossible to stick to 
the recommended calorie allow
ance. Dont worry about it. Espe
cially given the many eating disor
ders on college campuses, getting 
hung up on calories is a real dan
ger. Stepping on a scale not more 
than once per week should be an 
ironclad rule.
Instead of calorie counting, Bonci 
recommends changing eating habits 
as the primary thrust of a diet. 
Behavior modification, as it is 
called, has the added advantage that 
weight which comes off stays off. 
What follows are a series of tips to 
help change patterns of eating:
Eat slowly. It takes the body 20 
minutes to begin to digest food, so 
people who eat in a rush tend to eat 
more than they need.
Be sure to eat foods from all the 
food groups to maintain a balanced 
diet.
Change your daily schedule so 
that you are busily engaged in activi
ties at those times you normally feel 
like snacking.
Resolve to exercise. No major 
commitment is needed  three 
times per week is sufficient.
Many invisible pounds can be 
shed by refraining from eating while 
doing other activities like watching 
TV or studying. Concentrate on 
what you eat.
A diet is much easier with sup
port. Get a friend and lose weight 
together.
THE CALORIE CHART
FoodAmt Calories
Applesauce, sweetened 1/2 cup155
Banana, fresh1 medium85
Beans, lima or green1/2 cup90
Beer, light8 ounces150
Bologna2 slices170
Bread, white160
Broccoli, cooked1/2 cup20
Butter1 pat50
Cake with icing1" x 3" piece370
Cantaloupe, fresh1/2 cup30
Carrot, cooked1/2 cup22
Carrot, raw1 medium20
Cheese1 ounce110
Chicken, fried1 breast310
Chicken, roasted3 ounces160
Coffee, black1 cup0
Crackers, graham4 small55
Crackers, saltines2 2" squares35
Doughnut, iced1150
Doughnut, jelly filled1225
Dressing. French2 T120
Dressing, Italian2 T160
Egg omelette, plain2 eggs240
Eggs, poached1 large80
Eggs, scrambled1 medium110
Fish, baked or broilec3 ounces150
Fish, breaded3 ounces180
Fish, fried3 ounces225
French Fries10155
French Toast1 slice185
Ground Beef3 ounces245
Ham, roasted, lean3 ounces160
Ham. some fat3 ounces245
Hash Browns1/2 cup240
Ice Cream1/6 quart190
Milk, skim8 ounces90
Milk, whole8 ounces160
Orange juice1/2 cup50
Orange170
Peas, green1/2 cup55
Pie. fruit1/8 of 9" pie305
Pizza, cheese1/8 of 14" pie185
Potato Chips10115
Potato, mashed2/3 cup120
Roast Beef, lean3 ounces150
Roast Beef, some fat3 ounces250
Roll, average1 medium150
Soda, diet, average6 ounces1
Soda, regular, average 6 ounces80
Soup, vegetable1 cup80
Spaghetti1 serving395
Wine, average3 1/2 ounces85
Source: Allegheny County Health Dept.
WATCH OUT!
ITS COMING CLOSER!
ITS NEARLY UPON US!
iTs...trs...
Huh, you say, I just dont get it.
Well, thats understandable. Just keep your 
eyes open and your insanity barely hidden. 
And by the way... do you like Jell-o?
Organized by Student Senate and the office of Student Affairs.

---------------------------------------------------

'
jw
EJan
a
CJans
Ii
us
Is a new computer in your dreams 
but not in your budget?
Now * you can bring your old Macintosh to the 
CMU Computer Store and we'll let you trade it in.
toward the purchase of a new system unit.
We'll also be selling the Macintosh systems that we take in 
trade. If you've always wanted to own one and thought you just 
couldnt afford it, come in and let us prove you can.
All used equipment will be checked by our service department, and 
will carry a full thirty da\ warranty from the date of purchase.
Hours:
Monday & Thursday 
10:00-7:00 
Tuesday, Wednessday 
and Friday 
10:00-4:30
This program is| 
in effect an a 
trial basis
lContact the store at X2636 
or stop in for 
deuils.
t
%s
t!
pj
m
t
Si
t
CompuServe is Opening Doors at Carnegie Mellon
Information Session: Thursday, February 11,1988 Skibo, Room 12 
7:00 pin. - 90 pun.
Come on in~tahe a look at (y)our Future.As the percentage of personal computers on desktops in businesses and homes escalates, more doors open for you at CompuServe. FORTUNE 500 companies, government agencies, leading investment banking firms and forward-thinking individuals depend on us for computer-to-computer communications and information delivery. CompuServe is leading the information age, pioneering technology and its application in business and home environments.
Programming and Systems Analysis.
Competitive system design and software engineering propels CompuServes growth in the network and information service industries. Programmers and Systems Analysts at CompuServe pioneer new product development, network software, large system support, languages and tools, micros, database technology and management information systems. Visit us on campus, and well discuss the information industry and career opportunities that meet your individual interests. If you miss us on campus, inquire about CompuServe careers at your college placement office, or send a resume ta
CompuServe
Employment Manager P.O. Box 20212 5000 Arlington Centre Blvd. Columbus, OH 43220
Theres no time like the present to start thinking about the future.
t>
O
ks
Carnegie
Mellon
You Are Invited 
Spring/Summer
Job Fair 1988
Q
O
Students  all majors & levels: Meet with 
employers interested in you for summer and/or 
permanent employment.
Date: Wednesday, February 10, 1988
Time: 10:00 am - 3:00 pm
Place: Skibo Ballroom
Hosted by: Career Services and Placement

---------------------------------------------------

February 9,1988The TartanPage 17
Ask Specs offers etiquette about library romance
Questions concerning appropriate behavior 
constantly plague our daily lives. For some, 
these queries can produce a feeling of igno
rance which often leads to insecurity. In order 
to eradicate some of the dilemmas which pre
vail we have established this advice column. 
Send in your questions and cast your fears to 
the wind.
Dear Specs,
If I meet a boy that I think is really hot, I like 
to tell my friends about it, especially if we 
become romantically involved. Very often Ill 
be discussing the pros and cons of our possible 
relationship in the library because thats where 
I see my friends. Is that appropriate? -Anxious
Ask Specs
By Sara Flynn
Dear Anxious,
We all wonder whether or not its okay to 
discuss sexual relations in the library. Gener
ally, theres a rule of thumb for that type of 
conversation which applies directly to your 
case. Make sure you're on the first floor. If
youre dating the person, and you want to 
illuminate his personal flaws to the general 
public, do it on the first floor. Not only can you 
raise your voice on the first floor, but his 
friends can eavesdrop more easily on the 
conversation, and perhaps repeat your com
plaints. It could eventually get back to him, 
which will do wonders for your relationship.
The other floors demand other types of con
versation. The third floor is the best place to 
wink, stare and smile at the opposite sex, just 
as the sign advertises (Quiet Study). The 
second floor is a good place to try to get to 
know a potential honey. Try Do you know 
where the Shakespeare section is? / ve got two 
tickets for Macbeth at the Benedum Center for 
next weekend, and I want to look at the play 
first. It works like a charm. Of course, the 
peaceful desertion of the fourth floor is con
ductive to getting to second base. If you have 
qualms about making romance in the library, 
just look around some of the stacks up there. 
Dear Specs,
My roommate screams at me in puttie if she 
sees me wearing her clothes. Its gotten so bad 
that I have to hide if I see her coming and then 
Im late for class. How should I tell her not to 
yell? Its so embarassing. -Desperate 
Dear Desperate,
Don' t consider anything drastic like wearing 
your own clothes. The problem can be easily 
solved. When you see her coming, divert her 
attention. Spill coffee or soda on her, trip her.
Great Expectations  Where precision haircutting is a tradition, as well as an art. ..and at affordable prices.WITH THIS COUPONI save $2.00 ooo  Precision Haircut
 complete with shampoo ft blow style
I. c now only $13.00 <2FEATU
iJgU February 29, 1986_ _ __ _ O^CTtTlOAS]
SAflSF^llorTGUARANTEEDi ""^
Great Styles Start at...
NfCiSSAPv VMH ICHPcenrntnsPRECISION HAIRCUTTERS237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office 
687-3500
Pkone- 363
16 INCH 
PEPPERONI PIZZA $4.tax
Saturday 11 am - 2 am 
Sunday through Friday 3 pm - 2 am
or yell something first. If you arent close 
enough to stain what shes wearing, say shes 
across the Cut for example, scream a question 
regarding something personal.
Dear Specs,
I am dating a girl who always says no when 
I ask her to stay over. She says she doesnt 
want to sleep in a fraternity house. Is she living 
in the dark ages in terms of etiquette, or is there 
something wrong with me? -A Geek 
Dear A Geek,
After asking many girls on campus for their 
opinions 1 have arrived at a solution to your 
question. There is no reason why she should 
want to sleep in a fraternity house. They are 
predominantly filthy as well as being dangerridden. Bottles, beer cans, and shaving instru
ments often litter the halls and passageways 
creating health hazards. Men seem to wander 
the public areas aimlessly, in various stages of 
undress. This sight can be unpleasant for 
many young women. Don  t jeopardize your re
lationship by forcing her to inhale the aroma 
of stale beer for the whole night. Doesnt she 
deserve more? Why dont you take her to the 
museum for good, clean, pleasant fun?
Dear Specs,
We have fire drills constantly in Morewood 
Gardens. Is it all right to try to meet people
during the long hours outdoors in the cold? 
What is the appropriate dress for this activity?
-New to Drills 
Dear New,
As with everything else, the appropriate be
havior is affected by the time of day. During 
the afternoon its fine to saunter around chat
ting, the occasion is informal and conversa
tion should reflect this mood. Evening is a 
different story. If you see others wearing 
sleeping costumes, and you're not, dont say 
hello. They are enjoying their private tikie. 
Pajama donning is a signal to the world that 
the wearer is in a sleep mode. Do not 
remark upon their toilette either. If you find the 
traces of their ablutions amusing, keep it to 
yourself. This includes hair curlers, pins, nets, 
and complexion products. If someone has the 
nerve to approach you with comments regard
ing your appearance, ignore them. If you are 
concerned with what to wear on these adven
turous evenings, keep in mind that elegance is 
an understatement. Put on a simple nightgown 
or pajama with a plain ski jacket. If you are 
worried that there is an actual fire and you 
want to take some of your belongings with you, 
put them in a sack. Theres nothing that ruins 
a chic look like the accent ofa popcorn popper, 
jewelry box, or DefLeppard record collection.
ci Q nee at The Carnegie
* All Ages, Levels and Interests
* Special Master Classes
REGISTER NOW! 
QUALITY DANCE INSTRUCTION
* For information, cali The Carnegie at 622-3288 
^Mention this ad for 10% off Registration Fee
Get out of town
with the
my Explorers Club
Winter activities Include:
Cross-Country Skiing 
Winter camping 
Spelunking
Prepare for Spring.
Join now and learn to kayak at 
training sessions In the pool.
Weekly meetings:
Thursday 6:30 PM 
Baker Hall 225C
Funded by the Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanFebruary 9,1988
sjtfcjap aoj aSed sotuio^ s^Epoj 93
I SDIUIO0 pOJEJ 3IAOJ^
"imm mms>
TEST THE LIMITS OF YOUR IMAGINATION
WIN $3000
Looking for an exciting and challenging career? Where each day is different? Many Air Force people have such a career as Pilots and Navigators. Maybe you can join them. Find out if you qualify. Contact your Air Force recruiter today. Call
CaQt Larry Coccia
412-687-7315 Collect
I MP-W
Enter the 6th Annual 
HONEYWELL FUTURIST Award Competition
Vision. Imagination. Technology. The world 25 years from now.
Todays dreams become tomorrows reality. Write your vision 
of the world in 2013 and enter Honeywells 1988 Futurist 
Award Competition.
If youre a full-time student at an accredited U.S. college or 
university, we invite you to use your imagination and 
knowledge of technology to write a 1300 word essay on the 
advances you foresee in one of several topicselectronics, 
industrial automation, aerospace, semiconductors, or
automation in homes and buildingsAND their social 
impact on the world of tomorrow.
If your ideas are among the most imaginative and technically 
feasible, you may be among the 10 winners awarded $3,000.
For Futurist Contest rules, entry form and a free 17 x 22 color 
poster of the Jean-Michel Folon print pictured above, call this 
toll-free number
1 (800) 328-5111 Ext. 1581
Dont delay. You must request your entry form by March 4, 
1988 and mail your entry by March 18,1988.
Honeywell
The
Omicron rDelia Chapter 
Chi Omega
( Welcomes our ^National Uisitor
Hdklmch
to Carnejfie JMellon
Where were 
you when the 
lights went out?
I was just finishing up a quiz when 
someone leaned over to me and said, 
You know, if 1 had one wish, it 
would be that this quiz had never 
happened. The lights went out. I said, 
You may just have gotten your wish. 
The quiz was cancelled.
Mike Rose
In the dark.
Paul Delano
My brother had a job interview by 
candlelight. He said it was very 
intimate. 
Maureen Joyce
I was in electronics class and Dr. 
Rayne said, The average pow.er 
formula is... And the lights went out. 
We all laughed and he said, Keep 
writing. 
Eric Leuliette
1 was trying to get my Screen writing 
assigment done only to find out that 
my class was cancelled.
Elaine Tomko
I was sitting in OR class in one of 
the rooms in Wean Hall that doesnt 
have windows and all the lights went 
out. It was real dark. Some guy lit a 
match and we all went out.
Erica Levy
Tutoring for minority high school
By TERENCE SPIES
Tartan Staffwriter
This Monday, after months of planning, a 
new and unique program will start at CMU, 
giving minority high school students the 
chance to succeed. A group of 40 students are 
giving, through a tutoring program, their most 
precious resources: time and knowledge.
Members of Spirit, Tau Beta Pi, and Mortar
board have allied in an effort to tutor students 
at the predominantly black Westinghouse 
High School. The group hopes to ameliorate 
the high attrition rate of the high school, help
ing the students overcome the obstacles a 
minority student faces.
According to Terence Yarde, Spirit coordi
nator for the tutoring program, black students 
may face a self-fulfilling prophesy foretelling 
failure. After being told they will fail from all 
sectors of society, the temptation is to say 
why bother and give up. Black students also 
face a confidence hurdle, worries about course 
work, and a lack of role models in visible 
societal positions. The end result, says Yarde, 
is the significantly lower SAT scores for black 
high school students. Also, these factors create 
a vicious circle, resulting in predominantly 
white colleges and industry.
Students at Westinghouse face several
unique problems. Magnet schools tailored for 
exceptional students draw away more ostensi
bly talented individuals. The school also has 
less counselling and gifted and talented pro
grams than the more visible, showcase mag
nets. These deficits leave Westinghouse with 
a remarkably high attrition rate.
Seana Chun, president of Mortarboard, the 
senior honor society, read about these prob
lems, and, inspired by a tutoring program es
tablished by Everett Tademy, SUPA faculty 
member, decided to act. Previously, 
Mortarboard's community service was rele
gated to visits to a soup kitchen downtown, 
which dissatisfied Chun. Mortarboard mem
bers worked together to fuse the three groups, 
contact the high school, and recruit tutors.
In addition to tutoring, the program is impor
tant, according to Kevin Murtha, Mortarboard 
member, as an opportunity for the high school 
students to see college students at work, and to 
experience a collegiate atmosphere.
During the planning stages, Mortarboard 
contacted Spirit, whose members were enthu
siastic about the opportunity to aid the stu
dents, and to extend contact with Pittsburghs 
black community. I went to an all-black high 
school and saw the struggle these kids face, 
says Nicole Austin, Spirit president.
students begins
Spirit, is an important component of the pro
gram, providing role models for the students, 
showing them that blacks really can make it in 
college. Showing Westinghouse students this 
success and giving them encouragement are 
the keys to continuing the survival of the black 
community through education according to 
Austin. Yarde feels that his involvement in the 
program allows him to give something back to 
the community, something he feels would 
have helped him when he was in high school.
Tau Beta Pi is also involved through the 
efforts of David Kopchik, who is a member of 
both honor societies. Tau Beta Pi has about 15 
tutors participating in the program.
The tutoring sessions take place at the Carne
gie librarys Homewood division, northeast of 
Shadyside, Monday to Thursday. Subjects 
ranging from Calculus through the Social 
Sciences are tutored, with a selection of four 
subjects at each individual session. Carnegie 
Mellon Security has provided free transporta
tion for the tutors from the university and back.
Any students interested in becoming tutors 
should contact either Seana Chun (681 -4334), 
Nadine Flynn (621-5826), or Terence Yarde 
(x4389). If you are willing to give two hours of 
your time two times a month, the tutorial 
program may be a worthwhile option.

---------------------------------------------------

February 9,1988The TartanPage 19
Students make diverse music
By JOHN KYRIACOPOULOS
Tartan Staffwriter
Peaceful Thunder, a newly formed band, 
hopes to be heard from in the coming semes
ters. The core consists of freshmen Keith 
Bates, Joe Traub, and Brian Zeigler. Keith, 
who plays keyboards and writes music, has 
wJeen influenced by artists such as The Beatles 
and Billy Joel. Joe, the bass guitar player, 
likes New Wave and more recent artists such 
as Suzanne Vega. Brian, who plays guitar, has 
his roots in Classic rock from the seventies. 
They write their own music, but find it hard to 
classify it into a specific genre although they 
admit that there are a lot of keyboard sounds 
involved. The band is for the most part in its 
^developing stages, and they still need a drum
mer. But they are hopeful that by next semes
ter, after the addition of a drummer and some 
serious practice time, they will be able to land 
some gigs on campus or in the local area.
On the lighter side, Steve Peters, another
freshman, has spoofed George Harrisons new 
single Ive Got My Mind Set on You, with 
his own version aptly entitled Im Going to 
CMU. The lyrics are as follows:
I'm going to CMU
But its going to take money.
A whole lot of tuition money.
Its gonna take plenty of money 
to graduate, child.
Its going to take time.
A whole lot o party time.
It's going to take drinking time 
to blow it 
to blow it 
to blow it 
to blow it off child.
And this time I know I can pass.
Ive studied off my ass.
And I know if I can put my mind to it 
I probably won't sleep through it.
Honeywell to run Futurist contest
MINNEAPOLIS  Honeywell values 
imagination as well as education and wants 
to know what college students think the 
world will be like 25 years into the future. 
The Futurist Awards Competition asks 
college students to look to the year 2013 
and use their imagination to write an essay 
about technological advancements. Each 
of 10 essays will win a $3,000 cash prize.
The contest is open to all full-time under
graduate or graduate students at any ac
credited U.S. college or university. Stu
dents are asked to devote the first half of the
2,000-word essay to one of the following 
areas: aerospace application, aircraft capa
bilities, control systems for commercial 
buildings, control systems for homes, in
dustrial automation and control, and mi
croelectronic devices. The second part of 
the essay should reflect the societal impact 
of the predicted changes.
Completed essays must be postmarked no 
later than March 18, 1988. For more info 
write: Honeywell Futurist Awards Compe
tition, Box 524, Minneapolis, MN 55440, 
or call toll free 1 -800-328-5 111, ext. 1581.
u:LITTLE ATHENS2103 Murray Avenue  Pittsburgh, PA 15217422-1330
FREE DELIVERY'
H,'lumulel 55.00
GYROS
(Pittsburghs biggest and best)$2.45
MENU
SIIISIIKABOBS.......................................................$2.85SIIISIIKABOB DINNER rk*. .kewrr of n(. paMry)-------S5.60CHICKEN DINNER.....................................-............$4.00CREEK SALAD......................................................5, 80ARTICHOKE SALAD................................................52 26SPLNACH SALAD...................-...............................52 00. CRAPE LEAVES....................................................52 35. IIOMMOES (chick pe. dip)...............................-...........5155. BABA CIIANOCE (nw>Um dip).....................................5, 55. COMBINATION PLATTER (rk*. uUd. mtt).......................$3.95 FALFIL (tried round chick pea* w/oolo aad ptnJcy) ..-------------$1.M. CHEESE 6- SPINACH PIES--------------------------------*110. RICE PLDDINC -------------------------------------* 94__________________S .55________________$ .75CREEK PASTRIES--------------------------------FRENCH FRIES-----------------------------------DRINKS----------------------------------------------* 60rtm Tax
OPEN FROM 11 AM - 11 PM 
DELIVERY TIME 11 AM - 11 PM
Worlds Colliding, 
a dramatic series of 
five paintings in the 
format of early Ren
aissance altarpieces 
by Mary Malott, is on 
exhibit through Feb.
14 in the Hewlett Gal
lery. Free.
Bids will be accepted at the PPG Place 
Food Court for the Kiss Print Auction Mon
day, February 2 through Saturday, Febru
ary 13. The auction features kiss prints 
from celebrities such as Heather Locklear, 
Carol Burnett and Ed McMahon.
Tuesday, February 9:
Dr. Ellie Wright-Ellis, an educator and 
poet, will explore Black Male/Female Re
lationships at 5:00 pm at the HomewoodBrushton branch of the Community Col
lege of Allegheny County in room 208. 
Free. For more information, call 237-2643. 
Wednesday, February 10:
Carnegie Mellon Universitys Career 
Services and Placement Office will host its 
third spring/summer job fair from 10 am to 
3 pm in the Skibo ballroom.
The Community College of Allegheny 
College Black League of Afro-American 
Culture presents a performance The Role 
of Women in Struggle, from 2:30 to 4:30 
pm. The program will be held in CCACs 
West Hall Auditorium. Free.
The Sierra Club will meet at 7:30 pm in the 
Pittsburgh Civic Garden Center on the cor
ner of 5th and Shady. The program will fea
ture the film The Challenge of the Cau
casus, a movie about a mountain climb up 
Mt. Elbrus held in 1985. Free.
William Cassidy of the Department of 
Geology at Pitt will speak on Meteorites, 
Antartica and International Relations at
noon in the Board 
Room of the YMCA 
located at 30 Blvd. of 
the Allies. Sponsored 
by Pennsylvania Peace 
Links. Free.
Volker Hartkopf and 
Vivian Loftness will 
speak on "Museum 
Performance at noon in CFA 206 as a part 
of the CMU Architecture Departments 
Architecture Seminar Series.
Thursday, February 11:
Corbusier and Frank Lloyd Wright: The 
Poet of Reason and the Reluctant Mystic 
will be the topic when Howard Saalman, 
Andrew Mellon Professor of Architecture, 
speaks at 8:00 in the Hunt Multi-Purpose 
Room. Sponsored by the Department of 
Architecture. Free.
Black Male/Female Relationships. See 
February 9 listing.
Sunday, February 14:
SPIRIT will sponsor a Black History 
Program with Bob Gore, a former Assis
tant Director of CORE, and Adlai Sanford, 
a teaching fellow at Harvard. Wherret 
Room at 3:00 pm. Free.
Wednesday, February 17:
Photographer Anne Fishbein will speak 
on her photography series Highway 66 
and Other Views at 7:00 pm in the Adam
son Wing of Baker Hall. The series will be 
on exhibit in the Hewlett Gallery from 
February 18 to March 22, with an opening 
reception at 5:00 on the 18th. Free and 
open to the public.
Ulrich Flemming will speak on Hommage to Barcelona at noon in CFA 206 as 
a part of the Department of Architecture's 
February Architecture Seminar Series. . 
Free-_______________________________/
CMUComputer Store
CMU Computer Store: UCC - A level
Phone: x2636 MS: PS00@TE ps00@andrew 
For a current price list: Type HELP COMPUTER-STORE-PRICES on any TOPS
System.
The CMU Computer Store and 
PC Repair now have evening
hours:
Mon. & Thurs. 10:00 a.m. - 
7:00 p.m.
Tuesday, Wed., & Friday 
10:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.
(These hours will remain in effect until further notice)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanFebruary 9,1988
988 Sweepstakes Update
Buggy fever builds
By STEVE NG
Special to the Tartan
Despite the weather outside being frightfully 
cold and windy, buggy related personnel are 
not hibernating. The season starts in the fall 
and continues through break into spring rolls 
and end with the big finale on raceday in midApril.
Last fall's rolls were quite successful, only 
one weekend was cancelled due to bad 
weather, and it was good to see the majority of 
organizations, old and new, out there spinning 
their wheels and making it through the chute. 
New organizations such as AEPi and the Pio
neers were slow to start but are looking good 
for the spring with new wheel technology.
There is some concern for those who werent 
out in the fall, but theres still time to catch up 
in the spring if you're out early. In terms of fall 
freeroll times, Pika dominated with the fastest 
time, Sigma Nu came in second and trailing 
third were DU, KDR, CIA and Fringe.
In terms of new safety rules, in addition to the 
new requirements of protective systems for 
the driver from collisions on all sides, the
mandatory wearing of a rated helmet is now in 
effect, along with the new procedures for at
tachment of windshields. All windshields 
must be a polycarbonate of specified thickness 
and mechanically attached to the protective 
system of the buggy in three locations. The 
days of duct tape as a universal tool are 
numbered.
The Sweepstakes Committee has scheduled 
the usual chairmans meeting as well as a 
drivers meeting. All drivers should get in 
touch with their chairmen for information. The 
first Spring rolls are slated for Mid-Semester 
break.
I would like to state again, if there are any 
rebuttals to my article or any suggestions 
about some possible stories, please write me in 
care of the Tartan. This article is only to 
provide an objective and informative source 
for those interested in buggy and those who 
have the potential to become a fellow buggy 
maniac.
Editors Note: Next weeks buggy preview 
will include a brief listing of the Sweepstakes 
Committee.
Raceday is just 10 more weekends away. This year should be better than ever.
The Question o f the Week:
Say So Long to Tech Field
By KAREN SILVA
Tartan Staffwriter
The inevitable is about to happen. No, its 
not exams, its not graduation, its THE 
DESTRUCTION OF TECH FIELD!! We 
all knew it was going to happen, but with 
the reality close at hand, its time to find out 
what people really think about campus 
renovation. Thus, was bom the question of 
the week: How do you feel about not 
having a home season next year because of 
the work that will be done on Tech Field?
The general attitude is mixed according to 
the athletes that utilize the field. The con
sensus is that in the long run, Tech Field re
construction is fantastic. New facilities and 
a new playing area are considered to be 
beneficial to the athletic program. How
ever the short term effects, like not having 
a home season for any of the sports that use 
the field, are a different issue.
Home season is not a phrase that carries 
much clout with Carnegie Mellon athletes. 
The changes in the playing field and the 
problems that stem from not having a field 
at all have become the real issue. Not 
having a home season is secondary.
Probably the most disturbed by the reno
vation are the members of the Track teams. 
The short term effects of, what is to them, 
more destruction than reconstruction, will 
hit this sport the hardest. Last season, Track 
didnt have any home meets because the 
facilities at Carnegie Mellon were so bad. 
This year was going to be very exciting 
because of the new track but they will never 
get a chance to run on it. Jody Burig
(Womens Track) feels that this is a real 
big letdown.
Another Track team member, Lou Csak, 
had a slightly different outlook towards the 
Tech Field question. Csak expressed the 
view that the school had wanted to put the 
athletic program into a whole new league. 
The teams had been promised all kinds of 
new facilities, but Csak, as a senior, he 
would graduate before the school did any
thing. Csak said he was bummed out 
about them taking out the track before we 
get to run on it.
To Gale King (Football), not having a 
home season isnt all that bad either. He 
seemed more concerned with the incon
venience than with not playing any games 
at CMU. In Kings opinion, the biggest 
problem is where the teams would practice.
Alan Mayr (Soccer) took a very optimis
tic look towards the renovation saying that 
no home games for one year is a small 
price. He feels that even though there will 
be no home field, there is not all that much 
support from the campus community any
way. He commented that the only people 
who attend games are a handful of indi
viduals who are friends of the team.
The problems with renovation lie in the 
areas of inconvenience and letdown asso
ciated with the renovation. It is obvious 
that the long term effects of having better 
facilities are outweighing the short term 
effects of not having any home games. 
Hopefully, all the work on the field will be 
carried out as planned so that Tartan ath
letes will not be homeless for too long.
You don't need any experience to row or cox  just a love of fresh morning air and the willingness to 
pull an oar. Whether you're driven to compete, or you just want to enjoy the sensation of gliding across 
the water in a slender, graceful shell, The University Rowing Club can teach you how. 
Our first meeting will take place on Wednesday, February 10th, at 6:00 pm in Wean Hall 7500. You MUST 
attend this meeting if you want to be a part of the crew. 
We will elect club officers, introduce you to the equipment, and show a video tape of last summer's World 
Championship Regatta, at which the U.S. Team took 1st place. Membership dues are $5, payable at the
meeting.
Wednesday Feb. 10th 
Wean Hall 7500 
6:00 PM 
Bring dues of $5
Funded by Activities Fee
1

---------------------------------------------------

February 9,1988The TartanPage 21
Josh Ruben*s
Sportspeak
in response, Quienes? Harry turned and ex
plained to his wife that the man did not know 
who they were talking about. They asked sev
eral more people and were shocked to discover 
that these people, the people for whom Cle
mente dedicated and later lost his life, did not 
even know who the man was, let alone, where 
his monument was located. This was a country 
that had a reputation for being a prime recruit
ing ground for the American big leagues. This 
was one of the best baseball playing countries 
in the world; the game is as popular in San Juan 
as it is in New York, Chicago, or Tokyo.
Eventually, Harry and Leenie did find the 
memorial. It was not very elaborate or ornate, 
but still, it was a monument of some kind.
They took pictures, but this was no mere 
tourist attraction to them, it was more. It is not 
only there for baseball fans to appreciate, but 
for all people to show their respects for a truly 
remarkable, generous man. It is a monument 
for anyone who wants to believe in heroes.
Eventually, Harry and Leenie went home. 
They told their friends how relaxing the vaca
tion was and how much fun they had .A few 
days later, Leenie, my mother, told me about 
Clementes monument and the experience she 
and Harry, my father, had looking for it. I 
almost cried again, but then I realized that I, 
and kids like me, will never forget. In a time 
when heroes are so rare, spirits will have to do.
Tartan hockex team continues to provide exciting action
Ice Tartans split last two
By NEAL A. LEVENE
Tartan Staffer iter
The Ice Tartans, in one of their more con
trolled outings, totally destroyed a much 
weaker Slippery Rock University Hockey 
Club last Tuesday evening out at Lakevue 
Ice Palace. In a 7-2 victory, the Tartans all 
but foiled any Slippery Rock attempt at 
offense or defense.
In an all-team performance, the Tartans 
dominated the majority of the game. Slip
pery Rock never got themselves in the 
contest. The Tartans maintained a lead 
throughout the entire game.
Senior Tri-captain Greg Timmons, recov
ering from a cold that forced him out of last 
weekends action, returned in style this 
week, scoring two of the Tartan goals.
Timmons first goal came half way 
through the second period as a result of a 
strong shot from the point on Slippery 
Rocks goalie Ken Ord. The puck re
bounded off Ords skates to his left, barely 
missing the goal line and coming to a stop 
right in front of the net. Meanwhile, as a
mass of Tartan attackers rushed the net, and 
Ord could not find the puck, Slippery Rock 
defenseman Eric Neil took a penalty by 
gloving the puck into the goalie. Ord was 
able to fall on the puck.
Neil was penalized 2:00 for delay of goal, 
and Timmons was given a penalty shot on 
which he scored, crossing to his right side 
and forcing the goalie to commit only to 
send the shot sailing for the upper left 
comer. Timmons second goal was scored 
later in the second period.
The Tartan's other goals came from Craig 
Palli, Denny Frey, Todd Henderson, Kevin 
Murtha, and John Blackwood. Henderson 
was named PHI Player of the Game for his 
strong consistent offensive and defensive 
play throughout the game. Both Henderson 
and Blackwood each contributed with two 
assists.
Slippery Rock was able to capitalize on 
the few scoring opportunities it had. In a
game where the Rock had at most five or six 
good shots on goal, two made their way into 
continued on page 22
Franklin D. Roosevelt once said that base
ball, with the exception of religion, is this 
nation's most unifying social activity.
This country does love the game of baseball 
and we hold the games great players in very 
high standing. Fans even look up to their 
sports figures as great heroes of the game. 
Sometimes though, a player comes along who 
contributes as much to the world around him as 
to his own sport.
America's love for baseball has spread to 
other countries all over the world. The other 
countries that rival the U.S. in terms of enthu
siasm towards the sport are the Caribbean 
nations.
Puerto Rico is one such place. It is also the 
birthplace of one of the greatest Pittsburgh 
Pirates of all time, Roberto Clemente.
Surely, the country that spawned one of the 
games greatest would have a truly remarkable 
memorial statue to mark the fact. Any Pirate 
fan would be crazy not to take the opportunity 
of seeing such a sight. However, this was not 
the sole reason why Harry and Leenie chose 
Puerto Rico for their vacation. Being from 
Pittsburgh, they were both, naturally, Pirate 
fans. However this vacation was primarily for 
relaxation. Since Harry spoke Spanish, Puerto 
Rico would have been a good choice anyway; 
seeing Clementes monument was just a little 
added incentive.
Clemente played his entire career for the 
 Pirates and was the idol of almost every kid in 
Pittsburgh. Aside from being one of the great
est ball players the Pirates (or anyone) ever 
had, Clemente was a true sports hero.
In order to be a true champion, an athlete has 
to be as good a person off the field as he is a 
player on the field. He should bring a level of 
integrity, sportsmanship, and goodwill to the 
game in his dealings with the public. Not only 
Edid Clemente have the best bat, glove, and arm 
in the league, he loved the game, the Pirates, 
and Pittsburgh.
Although he would not open up to the press, 
he always made himself available to his fans, 
especially the kids who idolized him. He was 
a leader for his teammates as he played every 
game with vigor and enthusiasm.
What fewer people know, is that Clemente 
$ was a humanitarian. He used his name, reputa
tion, and financial status to aid the poor people 
in his native Puerto Rico. When he was not 
busy playing ball, he worked hard to raise 
money for food, medicine and other vital 
supplies to ship back to the underprivileged in 
the Caribbean. Often, he flew in the planes to 
make sure the supplies reached the people who 
needed them. This practice had a tragic conse
quence. On New Years Dayl973, his plane, 
filled with relief supplies, crashed and Roberto 
Clemente was killed.
In Pittsburgh, a citywide day of mourning 
was declared. The Pirates wore Clementes 
#21 on their jerseys for the entire 1973 season. 
A special service was held in the new Three 
Rivers Stadium on Opening Day. A street was 
named in his memory. The greatest honor 
0came when the he was posthumously voted to 
the Baseball Hall of Fame only months after 
his death. Harry and Leenies kids cried along 
with kids all over the city and all over the 
country, when they heard that their hero was 
dead.
While strolling about the country one day, 
Harry asked a man where the Clemente memo- was. The man, with a perplexed look, asked
How to run yourown snow
The American Express* Card can play a starring role virtually anywhere you shop, from Tblsa to Thailand Whether you re buying a TV or a T-shirt. So during college and after, it's the perfect way to pay for just about everything you'll want
How to get the Card now. College is the first sign of success And because we believe in your potential, we've made it easier to get the American Express Card right now Whether you re a freshman, senior or grad student, look into our new automatic approval offers For details, pick up an application on campus Or call 1-800-THE-CARD and ask for a student application The American Express Card Don't Leave School Without It*

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanFebruary 9,1988
Panthers hurt 
hockey team
continued from page 21
the net.
Outside of these two goals, the Rock 
manifested little to no other offense. The 
Tartans quite effectively quashed any 
Slippery Rock penetration across the 
blue line.
Even when being helped by penalties 
(the Tartans were socked with 30+ 
minutes of penalties), the Rock looked 
simply helpless. Twice, while skating 
two men short, Carnegie Mellon was 
able to score.
The win made the Tartans in 4-2-1 in 
the West Penn College Hockey Asso
ciation.
Last Sunday, the Ice Tartans played 
the Pitt Panther hockey team at the Civic 
Arena.
Both teams were excited about the 
game since their last meeting resulted in 
a 4-4 tie.
Once again, the two teams played 
tough. It was a very physical game with 
a lot of scoring throughout the contest. 
The Panters jumped out early and by the 
end of the first period held a 3-0 lead.
Most of the scoring came in the third 
period with the Tartans trying to play 
catch up. It was to no avail however as 
the Panthers held on to win 7-5.
On Saturday night, the Tartans were 
scheduled to play West Virginia at 
Morgantown; however, that game was 
cancelled.
The team is currently 5-3-1 in the 
WPCHA. The teams next game will be 
against Indiana University of Pennsyl
vania next Saturday at Kittaning starting 
at3:15 pm. They will play again on Sun
day against Gannon up in Erie, Pennsyl
vania at 6:00 pm. Both of these games 
will be broadcast live on WRCT.
When will it ever end?
Tartans still winless on the road
continued from page 24
Gym.
Beckham, starting in place of the injured 
David Sikora, gave Carnegie Mellon its first 
lead of the game with a driving layup late in the 
first half. He soon followed with a threepointer to put the Tartans on top 33-30 with 58 
seconds left in the half.
Beckham, a sophomore guard, was playing 
his first starting role, but the assignment did 
not seem to faze him. His 11 first-half points 
had helped to keep Carnegie Mellon in the 
game.
He denied though, that he was trying to 
permanently take away David Sikoras start
ing position. "Im just playing to play on the 
court, not to put [Sikora] on the bench, he 
claimed.
The second half bounced back and forth 
between the two teams. Hiram bombed effec
tively from three point range, and a rainbow 
shot from Bob Dunn put Hiram ahead by five 
with seven minutes remaining.
Carnegie Mellon regained the lead when 
Moffatt found the basket from inside the foul 
lane, sending the Tartans ahead, 63-62, with 
1:41 to go.
It looked like that would be all the Tartans 
would need; their tough zone defense stopped 
the Terriers on their next possession. With 52 
seconds left, Carnegie Mellon had the ball and 
a one point lead.
However, when the monkey is on your back, 
its hard tc get him off. Beckham brought the 
ball up court and was trapped just past the mid
court line. Hirams Kenn Greaver stole and 
was fouled. Greaver sank both ends of a oneand-one and the Terriers owned a one point 
lead.
Hiram packed its defense inside and chal
lenged Carnegie Mellon to take an outside 
shot. An opening finally came on the left 
baseline, but the shot bounced into Greavers 
hands. Again, he was fouled, and again he 
made both shots.
The Tartans had one last chance, but the long 
inbound pass was stolen by Hiram and the 
Tartans found themselves at the wrong end of 
yet another score.
Daren Moffatt led Carnegie Mellon scorers 
for the third time in four games with 22 points. 
The junior forward explained, I guess my 
scoring hasn't been a one shot deal. Im work
ing a little harder to get open.
Also contributing was Beckham with a ca
reer-high 20 points. Beckham was silent about 
his performance, but teammate Hart Coleman 
wasnt. I think that Harvey played a real good 
game. He kept us in the basketball game.
Coleman added 14 points and 10 rebounds.
The two losses showed some familiar 
themes. The Tartans once again were bombed 
from outside. W & J hit four of nine from 
199, and Hiram was nine of 16 from that 
range. In the two games Carnegie Mellon was 
a combined five of 12.
Beckham was the only Tartan to take a threepointer in the Hiram game.
The game against the Terriers also marked 
Carnegie Mellons eighth road loss in as many 
tries.
This Week: The Tartans picked the worst 
possible time to go on a three game losing 
streak. They now will have to attempt to 
bounce back against the PAC-leading John 
Carroll Blue Streaks (15-3, 6-0).
The Carroll attack is led by the PACs first, 
sixth, and ninth best shooters. 1985-86s 
Freshman of the Year Craig Huffman leads the 
conference with a blistering 21.6 points per 
game while Andy Juhola and Jim Berger are 
giving the Blue Streaks 15.6 and 14.6 points 
per game, respectively.
Their shooting has helped John Carroll to 
have its league-leading 79.4 points per night, 
also best in the conference.
Game time is 8:00 pm tomorrow night, and 
the game will be broadcast on WRCT-FM 
(88.3).
The Action Option
Careers at 
Advanced Micro Devices
Set your career into motion at AMD. Were large enough to challenge for worldwide leadership in the semiconductor industry, innovative enough to set new standards in integrated circuit technology - like our 32-bit AM29000, the worlds most powerful monolithic microprocessor. And most of all, were smart enough to encourage our people to put their talents into action.
Organized for excellence
At AMD, youll be working within business units designed to encourage entrepreneurship as well as teamwork. Youll find support for your best ideas, and it wont take long for your ability to be noticed. Youll be making contributions in a results- oriented environment where excellence is respected and rewarded.
Looking for the best
So if youre already committed to excellence and determined to make things happen in your career, we invite you to explore our current career or co-op opportunities. Were looking for graduates with BS, MS, or PhD degrees in fields such as Electrical Engineering, Computer Science, Chemical Engineering, Computer Engineering, Materials Engineering and Solid State Physics. There will also be positions available for MBAs with technical or non-teclmical undergraduate degrees.
These positions are located in centers of important activity. Were headquartered in Sunnyvale, California, the heart of Silicon Valley, conveniently located near the cultural and natural wonders of the San Francisco Bay Area. In addition, we maintain facilities in Austin and San Antonio, Texas, an expanding corridor of high-tech business that also offers affordable housing and great recreational and educational resources.
On-Campus InterviewsFebruary 15
_ To find out more about how to put yourRS.U VclVlCCfl talents into action at AMD, check with yourPlacement Office, or send your resume PralCIO directly to University Recruiting, Advanced" _ Micro Devices, MS-57, 901 Thompson Place,DVICX P-O. Box 3453, Sunnyvale, CA 94088. Forw further details, call TOLL FREE (800) 538-One great company 8450 x 2799, or call directly (408) 749-2799.An equal opportunity employer.
EAST WINS NBA ALL-STARS
Michael Jordan thrilled his hometown 
crowd on Sunday as he scored 40 points 
to lead the East all-stars to a 138-133 
victory over the West all-stars. The east 
leads the series 25-13.
Karl Maloneledthe West all-stars with 
22 points. Kareem Abdul-Jabbar helped 
the West as much as possible with 10 but 
became the all-time leading all-star 
scorer with 247 points in 17 appearences.
PHILLIPS LEAVES KAROLYI
Gymnast Kristie Phillips, who is one of 
the United States biggest hopes for 
1988 gold, left her old gymnastic coach 
Bela Karolyi in favor of Don Peters. 
Karolyi, who trained both Nadia Co
maneci and Mary Lou Retton, said that 
Phillips was having problems adjusting 
to her body changes, as she has grown 
from 4-9 to 5-1 in the past few months. 
Phillips left Karolyis camp because she 
said that she needed a change, and de
cided to work with Peters out in South
ern California.
PENGUINS FLYING HIGH
The Pittsburgh Penguins have streaked 
again, winning four of five this past 
week at home, including a 1-0 win over 
Minnesota. The shutout was the first for 
rookie goaltender Frank Peterangelo, 
who has been the hot hand for the now 
second place Penguins. In the overall 
Patrick Division race, the Pens currently 
lie in second place five points behind the 
league leading Philadelphia Flyers. But 
all teams in the division are close, as the 
last place Rangers are only eight points 
behind the Penguins.
The Penguins streak ended on Sunday 
however, to the Rangers, 6-4.
OLYMPICS TO START
The 1988 Winter Olympics are just 
around the comer, as opening ceremo
nies will be this Saturday. Many stories 
will be unfolding in the coming weeks, 
as the games in Calgary will continue 
through February 23rd.
NCAA PLAGUED BY UPSETS
Three of the top five ranked teams in 
the NCAA fell to defeat this past week
end, as number one Arizona, number 
two UNLV, number three Duke, and 
number five B YU all lost this past week
end. For Brigham Young, it was their 
first loss of the 1987-88 season.
TYSON TO FIGHT SPINKS
Mike Tyson is set to clash with Mi
chael Spinks in June for the unified 
heavyweight title currently held by 
Tyson. Tysons latest victim was Larry 
Holmes, who was knocked out in four 
rounds. Tyson is expected to earn $15 
million for the fight, while Spinks will 
get approximately $14 million.
DUKES FREEMAN SUSPENDED
The Duquesne Dukes basketball team 
lost the serv ices of Pat Freeman due to an 
NCAA violation last week. Freeman 
received $1200 to be a subject in a sur
vey about political positions this past 
summer. This money transaction was 
illegal in the eyes of the NCAA, and 
have given Freeman a seven game lay
off, despite appeals by his lawyers.

---------------------------------------------------

Scoreboard
Tartan Sports Calendar
February 10: Womens Basketball vs John Carroll at Skibo Gym. 6:00 pm
Mens Basketball vs John Carroll at Skibo Gym, 8:00 pm (WRCT) 
February 11: Sportsline on WRCT-FM (88.3), 8:30 pm
Topic: Womens Basketball 
February 13: Womens Basketball vs University of Rochester, 12:00 pm (WRCT)
Swimming vs Washington and Jefferson at Skibo Gym Pool, 1:00 pm 
Hockey vs IUP at Kittaning, 3:15 pm (WRCT)
February 14: Hockey at Gannon, 6:00 pm (WRCT)
IM Standings
BASKETBALL STANDINGS
The next IM Board Meeting will be held 
Thursday, February 18th at noon in the Gym 
Conference Room.
SPORTS IN SEASONo
Bowling
Commissioner Randy Brown x5501 
Please pay all bowling fees as soon as pos
sible.
Darts
Commissioner Rob Moses 683-8409 
Standings are on the IM Bulletin Board.
* lease report all match results to Commis
sioner Moses as soon as possible.
Chess
Commissioner Matt Murbach x3939 
Matt will be getting all matches played soon, 
and the finals must be completed by March 1 st.
Backgammon
ffcommissioner A1 Margarella x8995
Pick up rules and schedules in the IM office 
as soon as possible.
Basketball
Majors - Pat Jeffries x4299 
Intermediate - Eric Jacobs x5510 
Minors - B.J. Rottscaefer x5503 
Women - Pat Jeffries x4299 
Final schedules are out for all leagues and 
can be picked up in the IM office. Please play 
all games as scheduled, and make sure the win
ning teams name is circled on the scoresheet. 
Game officials must sign the game scoresheet 
to make the game official.
Floor Hockey
Majors - Eric Bittner x8650
- Intermediate - Jeff Cohen x4134 
Revised schedules and rules are posted and 
can be picked up in the IM office.
Pinochle
Commissioner Pete Gaertner x5516 
Schedules are out and can be picked up in the 
IM office. Please play all matches as sched
uled.
QWrestling
Commissioner Stephanie Janczak x4229 
Practices are scheduled for Monday, Wed
nesday, and Friday from 3:30 pm to 4:45 pm in 
Thistle Hall. The 1988 IM Wrestling Tourna
ment will be held Saturday, March 5th at 9 a m 
in Thistle Hall. Post Entry weigh-in at 9 am 
that morning.
OtWater Basketball
Commissioner Carl Bell x5509 
The water basketball lifeguard will be John 
Bender (x4552). More teams could be used for 
this season.
SPORTS COMING UP
All sports due February 18th unless otherIM News
Co-Rec Badminton
awise noted.
Singles and Doubles Table Tennis
Commissioner Stu Fox x4226 
Final entry date for the Womens only league 
is February 11th at 4:30 pm.
#Team Call Pool and Individual Call Pool
Commissioner Andy Segal x4436
OPCo-Rec Table Tennis
Commissioner Stu Fox x4226
Basketball Foul Shooting
Commissioner Andy Segal x4436
Table Tennis - Singles and Doubles
Commissioner Stu Fox x4226
Entries will be due February 4th at 4:30pm.
Handball
Commissioner E.J. Birdy x2214
Final entry date is February 11th at 4:30 pm. 
Entry forms can be picked up in the IM office, 
Gym room 102.
THE IM TICKER...
The 1988 Intramural Night is not far away. 
Intramural Night will be Thursday, March 3rd, 
at 7 pm. All teams that have won an IM 
championship for the 87-88 season are re
minded to attend, to receive their awards.
IM Night will take place the night of the 
Intermediate and Majors Basketball Champi
onships.
The IM Board has considered all new IM 
sites for IM sports during the campus con
struction. Sites that are currently being con
sidered for playing fields in 1988 are The Cut, 
CFA lawn, and Flagstaff Hill. If you have any 
suggestions, please stop by the IM office.
Anyone interested in joining the officials 
club for basketball, floor hockey, and indoor 
soccer are reminded to contact the IM office at 
x2214, or stop by the gym room 101. Pay for 
all sports will follow intramurals University 
rate.
In floor hockey news, the IM office reminds 
all teams to be ready to play at the designated 
starting times on the schedules. The allowable 
"grace period is 10 minutes from the sched
uled starting time.
In IM basketball news, the IM games that 
were scheduled for February 2nd were 
cancelled due to the power failure. Games that 
were at 9:00 pm have been rescheduled for 
1:00 pm Sunday, February 21st, while the 
10:00 pm games will be played at 2:00 pm the 
same day. All teams involved are reminded of 
this change and are expected to follow the 
schedule accordingly.
Finally, the IM-UPI basketball rankings are 
in for week three. Some major changes have 
taken place, as the majors number one ranked 
team, and defending major champions, the 
ATO Wolfpack were defeated by Spirit-B.
The Intermediate rankings see no changes 
this week, but Daves Team and Theta-Xi A 
both received votes.
In the minors, three new teams have moved 
into the top 5. Defending minors champs 
Sigma Tau Gamma, Bushmen, and Money For 
Nothing (GSI A) have moved into the number 
three, four, and five slots.
In the womens league play last week, SUPA 
held on to their number one spot, followed by 
the 5 C&D players. Here are the top 5 in each 
division for the week ending February 4th:
Majors
1. Beta
2. The Squad
3. Drams
4. ATO Wolfpack
5. Fixers
WOMEN S BASKETBALLWLSUPA30CIA SHORT TEAM115 C&D PLAYERS11AFROTC12SOPHISTICATED LADIES02
MAJORSWLTHE SQUAD30DRAMS30ATO WOLFPACK20FIXERS31BETA10SPIRIT-B22THE MONKS121085 LIONS12ALABAMA SLAMMERS13SUPA MAGIC14PIKA-A03
INTERMEDIATENORTHWLBEN-WA-BALLS40UNDERDOG21PKT LTL'S22SDC-FINAL EFFORT11PIPES12ORANGE12ROBBER BARONS13
SOUTHWLTHETA XI-A30SUDSUCKERS30DU-A41THETA XI-B12KAPPA SIGMA12THE BOUNCERS14DYNAMIC RAMS03
EASTWLCIV E S31ATO WOLVERINES20Z00-A21BETA W.P.H.A.12G.M.D.S.12THE REPLACEMENTS12SPUDSHOOTERS02
WESTwLPIONEERS-A30DAVES TEAM30MATHLETES20PRANKSTERS11SAE-B23PHYSICS03ATO CUBS04
MINORSDIVISION AwLWRITER S BLOCK30DU-A31ME-GRADSS31SBX-ASYLUM21ATO-SCHLEPS13UNCONTROLLED MUSCLE 13TROJANS04
DIVISION BWLBUSHMEN40ATO-OVER 20021SHIP OF FOOLS11WOODLAWN11WITH OURSELVES02DU-B03
DIVISION c wPIKA POWER 3THETA XI C 2KAPPA SIG-B ICSO ISDC ILONESOME LOSERS 0
DIVISION D WMONEY FOR NOTHIN/GSIA3 WAWAW'S III 3PI LAM 2WOODSTOCK ISAE F TROOP 1THE K-MEN 0
Intermediate
1. Sudsuckers
2. ATO Wolverines
3. Ben-Wa-Balls
4. Pioneers-A
5. DU-A
Minors
1. Pika Power
2. UCC
3. Sigma Tau Gamma
4. Bushmen
5. Money for Nothing(GSIA)
Women's
1. SUPA
2. 5 C&D Players
DIVISION EWLSTILL A PULSE31YOGI'S BEARS31HISTORY GRADS21P1KA-C21ZOO B03KDR03
DIVISION FwLCIA30FLY BY NIGHT11VDB W HITE I11MONKEY PUS11PROUD PETE01SAE-C02
DIVISION GwLSCOBELL MILKMEN20UCC20AFROTC11NAVY ROTC11PHI KAP-A12APHIO LOBS03
DIVISION HwLSIG TAU30MAY S MUCHROOMS21ATO SFP22FECAL SOUP11THE WEESUCKS12L.Y.T.P.03
DIVISION IwLSMODNOCS30SOLD SHORT20DTD21WHAT?12PHI KAP-WEST02PIONEERS B03
FLOOR HOCKEY STANDINGS
MAJORS W LPOND SCUM 1 0THE NOYS OF BOLOGNA I 0DYNAMO 0 0PHI KAP 0 0PIKA 0 0MEXICAN EARTHQUAKES 0 0SAE 0 1DU 0 I
MINORS NORTHSUDSCUCKERS PIONEERS ZOOTHE BEATESCAPE FROM NOISE
SOUTH PI LAM THETA XI AEPISLOPE OF VENUS BOSS HOGS
EAST DTDTRANSFORMERS CIA SDCMOOSE JAW WARRIORS HAMMER SLAMMERS
WESTS1G TAU I 0AFROTC 0 0KDR 0 0OUTLAWS 0 0LEE S ARMY 0 1
DARTS STANDINGS
WL1000000001
WL1000000001
w1Ln100000000
01
pWLP1LAM A31X31WHARF RATS22HOOTWOO1y
PILAMETTES0
QWLPILAM B31EN3SAE22IMMEDIATE DUCK1DANGLING POINTERS1
The Sports Section 
will begin in-deptb 
Olympic coverage 
next iveek. 
Folloitf the gan *s 
with Tb Tart >.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan
PORT
IM  CLUBS  VARSITY  PROFESSIONAL
S- IN-A-ROW...COO
Seidls Lady Tartans on win streak
Playo ff hopes were lost this week as:
By NATALIE HAWRYLUK
Tartan Staff writer 
There's a difference between winning and 
winning big. This week, the women's basket
ball team won BIG. extending their winning 
streak to 5 games, a first for the Lady Tartans 
under head coach Gerri Seidl. Carnegie Mel
lon defeated Mercyhurst College (75-64) and 
two Presidential Athletic Conference oppo
nents, Washington & Jefferson (85-67) and 
Hiram (68-48), earning 3rd place in the PAC 
with a 5-2 conference record (10-9 overall).
On Saturday, the Lady Terriers of Hiram 
arrived at the Skibo Gym for their second 
confrontation of the season with Carnegie 
Mellon. Offensively, the game started slowly. 
Both teams had trouble scoring, although their 
passing was effective. The Lady Tartans 
jumped out to an early lead, but with 8:12 left 
in the half, Hiram was able to tie the score at 21 
apiece. But the Tartans stretched the score to 
35-29 at halftime. The first half was high
lighted by 3 three-point field goals by Carne
gie Mellons Lisa Lightner while Tricia 
Chorgo added 11 points.
The second half was completely dominated 
by the Lady Tartans. They outscored the Lady 
Terriers 33-19, shooting .379 (11 of 29) from 
the field and .692 (9 of 13) from the foul line. 
Each team pulled down 30 rebounds, despite 
Carnegie Mellon Vs height advantage.
Lightner led the Lady Tartans with 23 points 
(4 three-point buckets) while Chorgo added 14 
to the teams total of 68. Chorgo and Aimee 
Reber led the rebounding attack, effectively 
crashing the boards 16 and 10 times for the 
Lady Tartans. Hirams usual top scorers and 
rebounders, Cheryl Mounts and Dawn Martin, 
were both sidelined with injuries. However, 
Mama Robinson and Anne Haynam picked up 
the slack, scoring 12 apiece for the Lady Ter
riers. Robinson also pulled down 13 rebounds 
with help from teammate Kay Niedermeier, 
who pulled down 10.
Wednesdays game against Washington &
The five technical fouls really got us down 
mentally because we felt that we were really 
evenly matched, remarked Marybeth Arm
strong, W & Js leading scorer, she was right. 
The Lady Tartans shot .395 (32 of 81) from the 
floor and .625 (20 of 32) from the charity 
stripe, while the First Ladies made 27 of 71 
(.408) from the floor and 9 of 15 (.600) free 
throws.
Leading scorers for Carnegie Mellon were 
Reber with 26, Lightner with 19, and Chorgo 
with 16 points. Armstrong and Stacey had 19 
and 18 points respectively. Chorgo and Reber 
led the Carnegie Mellon rebounding attack, 
combining for 23 of 53 total rebounds. W & J 
had 51 team rebounds, with Lisa Lorenzo 
pacing the team with 15. The Lady Tartans 
turned the ball over 10 times to the First 
Ladies 9.
The week started with Carnegie Mellon 
playing host to the non-conference Mer
cyhurst Lakers. The game started out slowly 
for the Lakers, who were unable to score a 
point for the first three minutes. Until mid-way 
through the half, it appeared that the game was 
going to be close. At 9:46 left, Mercyhurst 
called a timeout, with the score 17-14 in favor 
of the Lady Tartans. For the next six and a half 
minutes, Carnegie Mellon went on a 19-4 
scoring spree, and ended the half with a 39-23 
lead.
Aided by fine team play and a slew of tech
nical fouls, the Lady Tartans went on to win 
75-64. Top scoring honors for the Lady Tartans go to Chorgo (23) and Lightner (21). 
Chorgo led all rebounders with 17. Kelly 
Murphy led the Lakers with 17 points and 7 
rebounds.
The Lady Tartans face second place John 
Carroll University on Tuesday at 7:00 at the 
Skibo Gym. A victory would put Carnegie 
Mellon in a tie for second with JCU for second 
place. University Athletic Association rivaP 
University of Rochester will be in Pittsburgh 
for a game starting at 12:00 on Saturday.
Tartans drop two
' photo by Ian Hall
Aimee Reberfights for a rebound against the Lady Terriers of Hiram last week in Skibo 
Gym. The Lady Tartans increased their win streak to five games.
Jefferson began with Carnegie Mellon leading 
5-0 before the clock was started. Five techni
cal fouls were charged against W & J due to an 
error in the official scorebook. Apparently, W
& J had listed their home uniform numbers in 
the book instead of the numbers that were on 
their travelling uniforms. Lightner was called 
upon to shoot the technicals - 5 free throws, 5 
points.
Within the first minute of play, the Lady 
Tartans were up 9-2. This lead was increased 
to 21-8 with 12:41 left in the half, but W & J 
battled back. At the 13:17 mark, with the Lady 
Tartans leading 32-20, the First Ladies rallied 
with 6 unanswered points, making it 32-26. 
The First Ladies held this 6 point margin as the
half ended  Carnegie Mellon 40, Washing
ton & Jefferson 34.
The opening minutes of the second half saw 
the First Ladies behind by two points, 40-38, 
but the Lady Tartans answered back with 7 of 
their own. From that point on, Carnegie Mel
lon never looked back.
Everything that the Lady Tartans did 
worked. Passing and ball handling worked, 
shots hit, and defense was solid. With 6:10 left 
to play and the score 69-60 in favor of Carne
gie Mellon, W & Js center Kelly Stacey 
fouled out and Carnegie Mellon got rolling. 
The Lady Tartans put 16 points on the score
board to W & Js 7. Lisa Schmidts layup 
sealed Carrlegie Mellons 85-67 win.
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
Call it A Nightmare on Tech Street and get 
Wes Craven to direct it. The men's basketball 
team's season is turning into a horrible dream.
The Tartans. 6-10 overall, 2-3 in the Univer
sity Athletic Association (UAA) and 3-4 in the 
President's Athletic Conference (PAC), 
dropped two games this week. Tech fell to 
Washington and Jefferson, 66-61, at Skibo 
Gym, and lost at Hiram, 66-63. Now they must 
return home for a showdown with PAC leader 
John Carroll tomorrow night.
The Presidents came into Skibo Gym as one 
of only two teams playing better than .500 bal I. 
Led by last years PAC Freshman of the Year 
Danny Jones, W & J was looking to improve 
upon its 9-6 record.
But early, it looked as if Carnegie Mellon 
would again wield its Skibo Gym magic. An 
eight point run in the first half spotted the 
Tartans a 20-12 lead.
The frontcourt combination of Hart Coleman 
and Daren Moffatt made 25 first-half points as 
Carnegie Mellon jumped out to a 37-30 
halftime lead.
The Presidents shot only 38% from the field 
in the opening frame, but raised their percent
age to 50% in the second half. The Tartans 
started hot but finished cold, hitting only eight 
of 33 chances in the second half.
Washington and Jefferson quickly took its 
opportunity. The Presidents went on a seven 
point run early in the second half, tying the 
game at 39.
Two later buckets by Rick Reid gave W & J 
a seven point lead with a minute remaining.
Carnegie Mellon wasn't done. Coleman hit 
a quick jump shot, and a President turnover 
turned into a Harvey Beckham three-pointer 
moments later.
But the late heroics were not enough, and the 
Presidents held on for a five point triumph.
Coleman, the senior center from Brashear 
H.S., led all scorers with 22 points. Moffatt 
had 18 and 12 rebounds while Beckham added 
10 points. Dave Branchen led the Presidents 
with 17.
Saturday night, the team went to Hiram. The 
Tartans won their first confrontation three 
weeks ago with a double overtime win at Skibo 
continued on page 22
photo by Kelly Alben
Hart Coleman tries to muscle in a shot past W&J's Tom Mileski last week in Skibo Gym.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan
IVERSION
ENTERTAINMENT  COMICS  CALENDAR  CLASSIFIEDS
INSIDE!
JOE BOB...........Page D4
Joe Bobs annual Restaurant Review - 
the Fast Food Fu Roundup
70s TV CLASSICS...Page D3
Ride the wild surf with Mark Benish and 
Haw aii Five-O
Spring comes early to Playhouse
Its The Swing
* ...Bernardo Bertolucci made this film so visually 
exciting it could only be shown on the big screen.
PBS special into a fascinating re-structuring of 
one of the most interesting lives of the twenti
eth century.
The film tells the story of Pu Yi, the last ruler 
of the Chinese Empire. At the age of three, he 
was ordained by the Empress Dowager to be 
the heir to China's dragon throne. From this 
point, the movie establishes that the emperors 
life will constantly be dominated by forces he 
has no control over.
In one of the most striking scenes in the 
movie, the young child (played by Richard 
Vuu) is crowned emperor in the Hall of Su
preme Harmony on December 2, 1908. The
tage he has of shooting on location in the 
Forbidden City (the first foreigner to do so) 
and shows us the true environment of Pu Yis 
early life.
As Pu Yi grows, he begins to understand and 
exercise his power. The poor servants are 
forever chasing him and reminding him of the 
various bits of protocol he must perform. He 
feels stifled and manipulated like a puppet. He 
longs to step outside the massive walls of the 
Forbidden City. However, Chinas past aris
tocracy had been so corrupt that the country 
divided in the time of the warlords. It soon 
continued on page D2
George Gee and The Make-Be
lieve Ballroom Orchestra swung, 
sung and played far into the night in 
the Skibo Ballroom Friday. The 
CMU alumnus and his big bold 
band held sway over a happy, 
dancing crowd of revelers.
The concert/dance was spon
sored by AB. It is rumored that the 
attendance for the show was larger 
than it had been for any AB dance 
ever.
The energetic Gee bounced and 
bopped his way through the show, 
exhorting the dancers and listeners 
at every opportunity. It dont 
mean a thing if it aint got that 
swing, Gees motto, was rattled 
off so many times that by 1 am or 
so, at the end of the final set, the au
dience was saying it with him.
Gee proclaimed a desire to return 
and play Spring Carnival this year. 
Until then, the strains of Satin 
Doll will echo faintly in Skibo, as 
the dust motes play at imitating the 
spinning lights and heady air of our 
very own Make-Believe Ballroom.
The Last Emperor shines
By JOSH RUBEN
9 Tartan Sports EditorGiven the subject matter, The Last Em
peror could have easily been made into a dry, 
high brow documentary. Despite that, director 
Bernardo Bertolucci made this film so visually 
exciting it could only be shown on the big 
screen. An extremely talented cast and pro
duction staff helped to make this would be
scene is breathtaking as thousands of brightly 
dressed eunuchs and servants bow and kow
tow to their new emperor. It is here, for the first 
time, that the young Pu Yi witnesses the awe
some power that he is in control of, though he 
is yet too young to understand it. Bertolucci 
could have wasted our time while delighting 
us with beautiful pictures that mean nothing to 
the story. Instead, he capitalizes on the advanBy JAVIER GRILLO-MARXUACH
Diversions Film Critic 
Ten years have passed since Jean de 
Florettes tragic death at the hands of the evil 
Cesar Soubeyrand and his nephew Ugolin. 
Jeans daughter, Manon, has grown up in the 
-hills surrounding the village, a beautiful, sav
age woman planning her revenge against the 
men who destroyed her father.
So begins Manon of the Spring, the sequel to 
Jean de Florette, Frances most successful 
film to date. The films are based on Marcel 
Pagnols two volume epic L'Eau Des Colines 
{The Water of the Hills.) Critics the world over 
have embraced the films as masterpieces, a 
^cinematic diptych worthy of the classic liter
ary works which preceeded them.
Oddly enough, Manon of the Spring did not 
originate as a novel. In 1952, at the age of fifty 
seven, Marcel Pagnol wrote, produced and 
directed a five hour hymn to his native Prove
nce. The film, called Manon Des Sources, 
detailed the attempts of a feral woman to 
avenge the death of her father. Disappointed 
g with the film's reception, Pagnol chose to 
rework the material in literary form, adding a 
prequel to the story as well as an entirely new 
conclusion. Pagnols two book epic appeared 
in 1963. More than just an expansion of the 
film, the novels deepened the characteriza
tions, heightened the sense of tragedy and 
intensified Manons desire for revenge. A 
simple tale of good and evil had become a 
remarkably powerful piece of literature.
In 1978, French producer/director Claude 
Berri, during a break from the production of 
Roman Polanski's Tess, discovered Pagnol's 
novel in the bookstore of a Moroccan hotel. 
Berri responded immediately to the reach of 
Pagnols vision, recognizing the work as A 
grand fresco which was inherently cinematic. 
During the six years that followed, Berri nego^ tiated with Pagnols estate for the rights to the 
novel, as well as producing and directing over 
a dozen films, one of which (Tchao Pantin) 
won Berri five Cesars, the French equivalent
of the Academy Awards. Finally. Berri was 
granted the cinematic rights to Pagnol's work.
Because both films required scenes to be shot 
during all four seasons, Berri chose to shoot 
Jean de Florette and Manon of the Spring at 
the same time. This demanded a year long 
period of preproduction, during which a nine 
month shooting schedule was prepared. The 
films budget rose to the equivalent of 17 
million dollars, making it the most ambitious 
project in the history of the French cinema 
(The budget of the average French film is 2 
million).
Production manager Roland Thenot and as
sistant director Xavier Castano found them
selves faced with the unenviable task of break
ing down a script involving 651 scenes, many 
of them decades apart from one another. At 
times a simple scene involving three people 
would take a crew of over one hundred to 
shoot. One of the most heart rending scenes in 
Manon of the Spring, in which Ugolin (Daniel 
Auteuil) chases Manon through the hills, de
claring his undying love for her, took over ten 
days to shoot as filming the complex sequence 
of shots involved the laying down of extensive
dolly tracks for the camera.
Shooting for Manon of the Spring/Jean dc 
Florette began in April 22, 1985. Production 
was plagued by problems. Among them, the 
unpredictability of France's autumnal 
weather, which caused the company to move 
several crucial scenes into a studio in Paris 
where conditions could be controlled. This, as 
well as personal problems, such as the mo
mentary absence of protagonist Yves Mon
tand due to the death of actress Simone Signoret, his wife of thirty four years, threatened 
continued on page D2

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2The TartanFebruary 9,1988
Emperor is visually stunning
continued from page D1
became a republic and in 1912, Pu Yi was 
forced to abdicate. The new republic allowed 
the emperor to stay and rule in the Forbidden 
City, but he had no control outside of its walls.
Mark Peploes screenplay takes this bizarre 
situation and turns it into great drama. The 
adolescent emperor goes into a tirade demand
ing that he be let outside. He cannot under
stand why he can have anything he wants 
inside, but cannot go outside. Peploe and 
Bertolucci now make the grand palace of the 
Forbidden City into a dark prison. Peter 
OToole plays Sir Reginald Johnston, an arro
gant British tutor who comes to instruct him on 
the world outside the walls of his empire. 
Johnston teaches Pu Yi what being an emperor 
means. He is the only one in the court who does 
not hide the truth from the emperor.
The acting, on the whole, is average. There 
are some interesting scenes between OToole 
and the emperor, but no one actor steals the 
show from the rest of the ensemble. John 
Lone (the adult Pu Yi) has the most demanding 
role by far. He must age over 40 years and go 
from the sophisticated young emperor to the 
humbled old citizen.
Flashbacks effectively show the sad con
trasts. Peploe used the numerous accounts of 
Pu Yis life to effectively show how the man 
went from one extreme of life to the other. One 
moment we are watching a richly colored 
court kowtow to their beloved emperor, the 
next we are watching an old, thin man being 
told how to urinate so as not to wake up the 
other prisoners.
In 1924, he and his family are thrown out of 
the Forbidden City by the ruling war lord. He 
takes with him many of the treasures of the 
Emperor. Off of the revenues generated from
these goods, he is able to sustain himself as a 
playboy along with his wife Wan Jung (Joan 
Chen), his secondary consort, and a small 
entourage. As he carouses through the Orient, 
he gets involved with the Japanese who were 
the first to offer him asylum outside of the 
Forbidden City. He is warned by his Empress 
about the threat the Japanese pose, but Pu Yi is 
obsessed with the idea of ruling again. Here, 
we begin to lose some of the sympathy we at 
once felt for him. No longer is he the poor, 
naive boy being told what to do; he is now a 
spoiled young man, hungry for power.
Again, sadly, he is only being used by the 
Japanese. They make him the mock emperor 
of Manchukuo, the Japanese puppet state 
(formerly Manchuria), which the Japanese 
invaded as a prelude to World War II. Pu Yi 
gets lost in his new status and is totally blind to 
the incredible crimes the Japanese are com
mitting on the Chinese people, actions which 
closely resemble the deeds performed by the 
Nazis. After the war, he is arrested as a war 
criminal and sent to prison. The flashbacks 
end and we follow the 50 year old man through 
the last years of his life, as a poor gardener.
The movie always keeps a sense of sadness. 
This is a life that could have been as rich and 
flamboyant as any monarchs or head of 
states. Instead, Pu Yis life is one that has 
never really been his own. He went through his 
years forever serving as a puppet for others to 
use and exploit. The audience always feels for 
him, and in some places, we care about what 
happens to him.
The last words in the movie are quite ironic: 
The last emperor to be crowned here was Pu 
Yi at the age of 3, in 1908. He died in 1967. 
The heart of the movie is everything that 
happens in between.
Enrique Juisansky, ZKeith JZochhart
Conductors
rWorks HZy: 
rDebussy/ firieij, Ulavel, and Uarese
... ...... ...
Thursday, ^February II, IQ88 
8:00 pm 
/Humni Concert 
College of Jine S^rls 
Carnegie Mellon Campus
This Concert is jfree and Open to the ZPuUk
S ikranujMidani, rDeanJoel Thome, Diead
Spring is here at last
continued from page D1
to expand the film beyond its already astro
nomical budget and cost
However, the films thirty six week shoot
ing schedule wrapped on time on December 
27, 1985. Eight months lata- Jean de 
Florette opened in France. Over one million 
saw the film in its first week of release, 
paving the way for the release of Manon of 
the Spring a few months later.
By the time Manon of the Spring opened, 
6.5 million people had seen Jean de 
Florette. By the end of 1986as many people 
had seoi Manon of the Spring, making them 
the top grossing films of the year in France.
With the exception of Gerard Depardieu, 
most of the cast of the first episode are 
featured in Manon of the Spring. Taking the 
spotlight again are Yves Montand and 
Daniel Auteuil as Cesar Soubeyrand and 
Ugolin. Although Montand was originally 
reluctant to take on the role of an old man, 
his reading of Baris script convinced him 
to take the part. In the script he saw a story 
which he has said ...captures the grandeur 
of France, the real France, not the preten
tious, self satisfied one. In turn, critics have 
acclaimed Montands performance.
Daniel Auteuil, best known for his work in 
the film Three Men and a Cradle (The film 
which inspired the hit movie Three Men and 
a Baby) found himself under heavy makeup 
for his role as Ugolin. Auteuils role called 
for heavy facial prosthesis, as well as a dental bridge. In order to capture the essence 
of the character, Auteuil vowed to remain in 
character throughout the production. Re
porters seeking to interview Auteuil found
themselves facing Ugolin, a recalcitrant 
peasant
Although these two veterans serve as the 
main link between Manon of the Spring and 
its predecessor, the character of Manon lies 
at the films core. This pivotal role went to 
the ravishing Emmanuelle Beart The 
daughter of French pop singer Guy Beart 
Emmanuelle came to Claude Berris atten
tion after she was nominated for a Cesar for 
Most Promising New Actress. Although 
Beni was impressed with her unaffected 
beauty, he felt she was too sophisticated for 
the role of an untamed young woman. A 
screen test of the young actress, who had 
grown in the Provenal region of France - 
Pagnol country - convinced Berri that he 
had found his Manon. All doubts were dis
pelled when Jaqueline Pagnol, who had 
played Manon in ha husbands original 
version of the film, embraced the young 
actress and declared You are Manon! 
Beart has since appeared in the recent re
lease Date With an Angel.
Claude Benis adaptation of Marcel 
Pagnols Manon of the Spring promises to 
wrap up the saga of Jean de Florette with a 
fine dramatic flair. The story packs more 
twists than a volume of O. Henry, flavored 
with the sweep, irony and thrust of a Greek 
tragedy. With its message of the force of 
destiny, carried on by acclaimed perform
ers guided by an accomplished director, 
Manon of the Spring promises to be an 
unforgettable cinematic experience.
Manon of the Spring opens Friday, Febru
ary 12 at the Pittsburgh Playhouse, 600 
Craft Ave. For info call 621-4445.
0
o
Jungian influence at Forbes
By EDIE LOCKE
Special to Diversions
Tonights opening at the Forbes Gallery will 
feature the work of seniors Greg Kessler and 
Steve Snyder. Mr. Kessler will be showing 
paintings, drawings and prints, while Mr. 
Snyder, in collaboration with Mark Shafer, 
will exhibit an installation piece constructed 
from painted, shaped canvases.
Modern Energy and Timeless Mythology 
Kesslers work is concerned with action and 
energy translated through the figure which is 
painted in a large format. His ideas are derived 
from human relationships and his feelings 
about social issues affecting those relation
ships. He finds the theme of city life best suited 
to communicate his ideas, enjoying its energy 
and the opportunity for the unexpected which 
exists there. With his work, he tries to bring 
myth and the surreal into views of the city, 
explaining, the city has surrealistic qualities 
to it with that element of the unexpected. It is 
also a modem place and Im interested in 
making it timeless with mythology.
Kessler is influenced by much of the Abstract 
Expressionists work in addition to Sue Coe 
and Max Beckman. He is interested in the 
figure, primarily because he feels that it car
ries with it the inherent power and history of 
the human form and is one good way to convey 
different conditions of human experience.
In regard to the size of his paintings, Mr. 
Kessler explains that in the future, he hopes to 
paint murals on the sides of buildings to get his 
ideas across to a diverse population, remark
ing, I like the ideas of the Mexican muralist 
Diego Rivera, of creating a non-elitist, publicoriented art.
Collaborative Statement 
An allegory is a paraphrase of a conscious 
content, whereas a symbol is the best possible 
expression for an unconscious content whose 
nature can only be guessed, because it is still 
unknown.
Carl G. Jung
Steve Snyders work is made up of many 
people, in that he tries to allow literature, 
movies and music to influence and pass 
through him into his art. This approach also 
makes it possible for him to collaborate with 
others on his pieces.
The collaboration between Mr. Snyder and 
Mark Shafer developed after the two artists 
conferred about Shafers show last semester,
I found, Snyder explains, that Marks and 
my ideas ran parallel to one another and it 
served as an inspiration for my show. I 
couldnt do my original idea alone, I needed 
other people to help.
Largely influenced by the ideas of Jungs 
archetypes pertaining to his basic concepts 
common to all people in the world concerning 
how different cultures live, Snyder and # 
Shafers work stems from a concern with the 
worlds environmental situation. The most 
immediate and obvious influence seen in the 
painting refers to the recent oil spill on the 
Monongahela river which Snyder and Shafer 
see as an important environmental event since 
it directly affected peoples lives at that point 
in time. Snyder hopes to take important mat
ters going on in the world and present them di- 9 
rectly to people because, he remarks, more 
attention should be paid to the world outside.
Mr. Shafer feels that it is important to stress the 
idea that man is nature and he should stop 
trying to separate himself from it as he ex
plains, by becoming more aware of the out
side, we become more aware of mans place 
there.
At this point, Mr. Snyder is very satisfied ^ 
with the way his work is taking shape and in 
the future plans to collaborate on media and 
video projects, commenting, we want to go 
into sound, to be able to go to powerful places, 
into the presence of nature.
Neither artist wishes to approach the work as 
a painter. They feel, rather, that they are people 
who have to do something and choose to work 
in the tradition of all the arts. .,.

---------------------------------------------------

February 9,1988The TartanPage D3
Hang Ten with Benish and Hawaii Five-O
Network: CBS
Run Date: September 26,1968 to April 26,
1980
Producers:Leonard Freeman( 1968-1973) 
Philip Leacock and Richard Newton(1973- 
1975)
Douglas Green and B.W. Sandefur(1976- 
1980)
When I think of Ha
waii, I think of the trip 
I won back in Septem
ber and how much fun 
Im going to have 
when I get there. I 
think of Waikiki, 
white sand, mai-tais and luaus with hula danc
ers. I think of me lying on the beach with 
Coppertone # 8 all over my body watching 
Polynesian girls walk by in bikinis that arent 
big enough to be a doily for my drink. This is 
my vision of Hawaii  a paradise where 
people go to get away from their problems; a 
place where nothing hectic happens; a place 
where the only law enforcement personnel are 
the ones on vacation from the mainland.
This was most peoples image of Hawaii 
until Hawaii Five-O was aired in 1968. The 
land of volcanos, Pearl Harbor, and From 
Here to Eternity now became synonymous 
with McGarrett and Danno. People that visited 
Hawaii now wanted to catch a glimpse of Wo 
Fat along with seeing Mauna Loa. The produc
ers at CBS decided correctly that setting a 
series in the nations newest state (Hawaii had 
only been a state for nine years at the time) 
would be an appealing concept to the audi
ence, and the audience took to it like poi-poi.
The lead characters were Jack Lord as Steve 
McGarrett and James MacArthur as Dan Wil
liams, McGarretts right-hand man. McGar
rett was an extremely skilled detective, one 
who seemed to be able to launch a sophisti
cated police operation right off the top of his 
head. The show would normally start show
ing the crime being committed, then flash to 
McGarrett directing all of his personnel while 
finding time to order a pizza and call his 
bookie. Danno, the 
nickname for 
McArthurs charac
ter, was the only man 
McGarrett had time 
to talk to extensively 
and always had the 
knack^fbr being the arresting officer. This 
knack created the most famous saying from 
the series, the immortal Book 'em, Danno. 
The other officers in Five-0 were famous 
for their names. Among them were Kam Fong 
as Chin Ho, who was killed off after the 1978 
season, Zulu (best one-named actor name 
except for Topol) as Kono, and Harry Endo as 
Che Fong, the lab expert. These characters 
rarely had long speaking parts; their lines were 
restricted to describing their police work. 
However, their descriptions were so natural 
and emotionless that I swear they pulled real 
officers out of the Hawaii district, gave them a 
situation, and told them to wing it. This is a not 
a knock on their acting; these guys fit the parts 
of middle-aged police officers very well and 
did a great job doing the parts. One thing is 
sure; these three represent the greatest collec
tion of Polynesian actors ever assembled.
The thing that I enjoy the most about Five-0 
(and as any real fan of police action series 
probably would) is the break-neck pace of the 
action. There was no pussy-footing around by
cops or criminals; both sets of characters per
formed their tasks with a sense of purpose 
never seen before in Hawaiian-based police 
dramas. Very little was ever shown concern
ing the private lives of the police officers (Too 
bad, I would have liked to have known who got 
the girl after those cases: McGarrett or Kono.), 
and the criminals were undistinctive except 
for Wo Fat, the only repeat criminal. The lack 
of any extraneous events made sometimes 
made Five-O look like a documentary; more 
than any other show you can really believe that 
these actors are their actual characters. (Im 
just waiting for Thomas Magnum to stroll into 
Five-O headquarters and see Danno.)
Another contributor to the documentative 
nature of these shows is the condition of the 
film and poor focus when episodes are shown 
on TV. 1 remember watching these shows 
during their run dates and having the feeling 
that I was watching something from a poorquality home-movie camera. Ive never 
looked, but Im sure that somewhere in the 
credits, theres a position of Film Mangier. 
Thats the guy whose job it was to jump up and 
down on, chew, and play jai-alai with the final 
print of each episode. The cameramen proba
bly had problems operating their Polaroid 
One-Steps. You would think that they would 
have had high-quality film and good focus to 
catch the beauty of Hawaii. I guess Jack Lords 
nephews needed jobs.
Speaking of tyrannical leading men. Jack 
Lord was the McGarrett-of-all-trades with the 
show. While the show had executive produc
ers in name, Lord was the man who made most 
of the production decisions with this show. He 
had a lot of say up until 1973, and obtained 
even more after the death of then-executive 
producer and creator of the show Leonard 
Freeman. Seems that Five-0 on camera paral
leled the production of the show itself. I won
der if the production crew was out of focus and 
stepped on, too.
Five-0 went through a pinball-like journey 
through the time schedule, being bumped by 
such blockbusters as The Jim Nabors Hour, 
before settling down at the Thursday at 9 time 
slot for its last five years of running. Now two 
consecutive episodes can be seen at 11:30 and 
12:30 on Sunday nights on Channel 2. Check 
it out for some great police action drama, and 
dont forget to have your drink with a little 
umbrella in it at arms reach.
O
land review
the Oakland review, an annual student 
run magazine which publishes 
carnegie mellon students1 literary and 
artistic endeavors needs submissions 
for their april issue.
literary:poetry, short stories, 
one act plays, 
artistic:black and white prints,
drawings, photographs, designs 
that work as artwork, or high 
resolution photographs or 
prints, drawings, or designs, 
maximum size 24* ' x 36
literary submissions can be typed and 
turned in with cover letter, to skibo 
information desk in envelope marked: 
Oakland review editors. 
georgia lydia sine, literary and head 
editor at 521-6412
linda peters, art editor at x8822 or 
683-2729
deadline: february 15, 1988 
this is your last chance, 
funded by your activities fee.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D4The TartanFebruary 9,1988
JanuaryAB SquareDance,Skibo,9pm
The Carribean Beach Dance 
featuring
. Qu, and hit* 
BtIUAACr___
REGGAE
(as seen at last year's 
Spring Carnival) 
live palm trees, beach
Gratuitous Flaming Fast Food Fu Roundup
Once a year me and Chubb Fricke do the 
annual Grapevine, Texas Restaurant 
Review, where we personally dine three 
times at ever single restaurant in town, 
award our star ratings and pick our teeth a 
lot. Chubb, who slimmed down this year to 
a svelte 330 pounds, sometimes gets so 
excited that he actually speaks. Here we go 
with this years results:
McDonald's #8741: A couple weeks ago 
they introduced the new McCheez Whiz,
Joe Bob Goes 
to the Drive-In
which is a grilled cheese sandwich wrapped 
in Velveeta with a Ritz cracker on each end 
holding it together and two toothpicks 
through it, enclosed in a polyurethane nonbiodegradable McBox. 1 gave it two stars on 
the peanut-butter-and-jelly scale. Chubb 
forgot to take the toothpicks out and gave it 
three stars. Also check out the new 
McGoatburger, but only if you're a Meskin. 
Sonic on Main: This is the one with the new 
Dempster Dumpster out back, where they 
still wrap hot dogs in grease paper, but 
nobody cares cause the waitresses, three of 
the Henderson sisters plus Velda Door
knob" Slatts, will do ANYTHING.
Burger King #476: We pigged out on the 
new Fiesta Chili Stick, which has a threeinch coating of Stokeley Van Camp's pork 
and beans spread up and down a foot-long 
metal rod coated with self-adhesive Ham
burger Helper. Get one at the drive-through 
and watch those dogs scatter!
Eat: The Eat Restaurant used to be called 
Eat Here but Ernest McPhee lost half his 
neon one night in a tornado. Its the only 
place left out on the old federal highway, 
because the major competition, Good 
Food, went out of business last year. The 
special for the last three weeks has been 
banana-nut-steak, and itll stay on special 
through August when they expect to run out 
of it. Its a Polynesian dish that tastes like a 
Polynesian.
Wal-Mart Snack Bar: The blue-plate on the 
day we went there was Macaroni Teriyaki 
Loaf, which tastes roughly like a pit bulldog 
that's been put through a blender. We 
washed it down with some Orangeade, 
sopped up the juice with a two-pound 
broccoli combread muffin and told the 
ladies in blue skullcaps how much we 
enjoyed watchin em slop the mashed 
potatoes with an ice cream scooper and fling 
carrot juice all over od people.
Pedros Mister Taco: We wound up our 
gourmet tour at the last restaurant left on the 
town square, and looked at the menu for a 
good ten, fifteen seconds before deciding on 
the Chihuahua No. 7. It consists of three 
cheese burritos wrapped in flour tortilla, two 
tamales folded into a flour tortilla, three 
cheese enchiladas in a flour tortilla, guacamole-in-a-blanket, six flour tortillas 
wrapped in a com tortilla (for those watch
ing their weight), and a four-pound 
charbroiled chihuahua. Be sure to ask for a 
extra tortillas if youre having the chihuahua 
fajitas. Twelve is not enough! In the words 
of Chubb Fricke as we finished the evening, 
Es muy bow-wow.
Speaking of flour tortillas, Angie Dickinson
takes her clothes off in Big Bad Mama II 
 yes, they finally made the sequel after 15 
years  but lets face it, were talking stunt 
breasts. In fact, were talking stunt thighs, 
stunt knees and stunt hiney. Dont worry 
about it, though, cause if we REALLY look 
at her, then we might have to look at the guy 
shes aardvarking with  Robert Culp.
I love Angie in this movie, for doing a 
Texas accent with a straight face, for taking 
a bubble bath with a gun and for delivering 
the following line: Honey, your Mama may 
not always be right, but Mama will always 
be Mama.
Yes, you guessed it, its Roger Corman 
again, king of the drive-in, spending tens 
and twenties of dollars to bring this sequel to 
life, starting out when Angie and her two 
huge-breasted daughters watch their daddy 
get blown away by the evil banker and 
continuing through 124 scenes of machine 
Gun City until Angie takes a bath, followed 
by 64 scenes of Machine Gun City until 
Angie takes Robert Culp to bed, followed by 
38 scenes of Machine Gun City, followed by 
one scene of Exploding Backlot. Even 
though it was directed by Jim Wynorski, 
who became world famous for the classic 
Chopping Mall, all the motor vehicle
chases and kaplooey scenes were directed by 
Linda Shayne, better known as Bootsie 
Goodhead in the drive-in classic Screw
balls. Bootsie, who hates for me to call her 
Bootsie and will probly write a letter 
complaining about me calling her Bootsie  
like I say, Bootsie delivers some fine rat-atat-tat ai-yee blood-spatter dead-copper 
footage. Its really a decent picture.
Six breasts. Two stunt breasts. 56 dead 
bodies. Five motor vehicle chases. Double 
aardvarking. Five shootouts. One kidnap
ping. One bank robbery. One party robbery. 
One armored-truck robbery. One state-fair 
robbery. One brawl. One cat fight. Explod
ing car. Exploding house. Exploding 
gubernatorial candidate. Gratuitous belly 
dancer. Dynamite Fu. Angie Fu. Drive-In 
Academy Award nominations for Robert 
Culp, as the reporter from back east, for 
saying You bathe with that thing? and 
You know, your little girls have grown up; 
Angie, for saying, No, my little girls have 
grown OUT; its not the same thing; Jim 
Wynorski, the director, for making a decent 
sequel; and Bootsie, for being Bootsie.
Three and a half stars.
Joe Bob says check it out.
Voloume
8ol2o,
AB Dance
funded by your activities fee
Sunday
Add a little variety to your f 
next t|re weekends'
<c[ kiex
MondayTuesdayWednesdayThursdaySaturday
Carribean Beach 
Dance
- Skibo 9 pm
The
Flow


---------------------------------------------------

vm a
C
Do you think you are funny but lack the 
motivation to do a weekly comic strip? Well, 
somewhere in the 
somewhat-not-so-quite-distant-future the
Tartan will be running its first ever iMK0>VQd
(?A@! M This is an 
opportunity for EVERYONE to get their Ya-Yas 
out without having to fear our oh-so strictly 
enforced obligation to maintain a comic
strip!
Anyway, your parody must be originally 
insane and in the Tartan office, room 50 Skibo
by (fctoslh M or else.
For further info please call Grant at ext. 4534 or 
at the Tartan ext. 2111.
irs f\7 972'4 
043\'^y prteme 97tSWAP' F0RCAPTAIN.'PRESS pert SON PEAP AHEAP / STANPM 5/ TO FIRE /
\
i STOPPED IN HEY' we I HIS TRACKS. PONT OO ! IS IT PAN AFTER ALREAPV RATHER * WOVNDED ^ PP6Y"
ceumt.iye wr 4^ y90u3a . ^ mu nrni. Loom\ fAk , UKB AN flmCK4^LL> Try9 4 uunNOf MZP1A \ MSHERS..
WnA\i n e w
STAND BY.. HE'SiNXNtrm, 5Lf- Ab&mPfZm, 56LFfcsss______am
. HE'S POWN MAIN rSfw) CAUTHEMO*OOE
'Wrf-n/
T|) V /

---------------------------------------------------

 B5 ". * (! ^I "B
mmmsswSB
VfCt ///2u4
OverloadBy Bob Jenkins
<in T)
inx
/3 '/.
'~Wg/
(n/r//
fit
sillMRir?" 5 w "5
Jci | 
f^5 ^ ^ o>
51^8
 * p s ^
Q i \ $ c 5? >  3*c5i;
U o 
fll ,l't !P Jj\

---------------------------------------------------

DfWie.! FOONIb pi DOTS 
PCR THl VALENTINES 
v FORMAL S3er? j------
^P. So X'M CRLLING UP> 
CSCORT Wb BSKINJG THM 
A TtfVT^ FOfc IKE CUeNlMr.
TU^MS OUT CMU. Hf\S ITS 
Ouyo ESCORT SERVilC/I'M G-OIMGr TO VOKft^, BUT LISTEN IM ON) I \X>H'T MRK& THE OTHEfc /W>9 NiS..y UN, OKft<3 ? 7-------w----^
/VOPg, -'^C 
SrxFsi 
SbWtTHlHCrj JUST 0-S /GOCfc' / /
InkspotsBy Kurt Shaw
WVt^/sj
NidrUT
fog- 1'aa Turr SPT lo^.fJcrSEE ID! (I
i nT )hem ...
7;\ V
age uiwrf- "T cAge ft* *uT ^ ^ 7utT ^
A rniLU^Ai,i.f-.:^.^T  meeTiMt,
vjvfew
82, Is 1I26CI,ara n2Ioo giIMUC
Ye^ & Min*+c V^c,'b 
v & ^>viWS Vc\b<S
Me\^h " Th obl^ 5<Wi
Yn +W OviWe^ Strte5 MW <*
^'T5C \p^/y<J (bd/O -\Vl<\rv
,^a -SVm'rS Vt/lo^e.
i>>^-MrrmmA JirrrrrrrTr^-^rrrrrm

---------------------------------------------------

iNVINCIBLE aGNESBY rROSE sLAVEY
How ' 
inbarrassingDammit,I used to catch FISH ^ this way...
(cn-ihousand ton STARSHIP! I A mere ... Bagatelle! 1
BAH!Meanwhile, the Captain rests in the stem with his belongings.After a while he is surprised.
j We are < x AUTHORS,I Captain Spanish.
Ahh... suction tubes! V> hat a wonderful way to travel!
J This will shiver their >h ingles! Heh | lich hch hth... 
p-* I'm being pulled to the hatch...And we've come to write your BIOGRAPHY, dear.
/ What, by the Glands*. ARE YOU??
'St. Yolanda's holy pituitary glands.
[5/ X iWnk ffi 5ok* 
s9 you're
m 'IWsdeadi
/fimm Twos E9 u0tsats$m&\
mum. mkv Poes wtf5Ctf/rs if wo* $0$ 00wwr ifsCt7*s Apj&lST? 'pl jy&jy'
'Tw*r know /cour wr*\ aw iw I TH<we mwit;
CNKSceVpm S9t PROJCt)R 
rKSNmm*t$, 1 R56L LilC j7*Ki*6 tMF a OVtSVW SmeR J \w... j------aratofc*** yfM \& urn nmm % Tvw o##He WBOARb* /
STAiRsSER0USscALTIH0RTEDcuRI0ITYsEIKR.A D1T_HC_vt:A_PsTE KA1Lt1UUENTI0N3TcAMpIESsBELIdmaD.E?ASTRY
BEBELifl OQBHQa SOB 13 IQ E9 F G ? ? Q (3 ? ? ? ? ? S EUOtDOEE DDQSQBQ BBGEJHE3 BQBSUH
.(caDsnnnfic samnns
Honeyw
By Eva Sandor
P\Afetl,iliMer.Z 'lUfclU Amexw\ f4 iW wellaware vpar {&urr\-
v
i/ta&ckwor rit*! subdiVfs^ jura ifl AtwH&hjal Oiacst feiuse fyour I^j-I jouYft' ~Tir- 4>u u/ere raised ooon^ n "the ixfeetiy Morfei N)gwg ^virer, ana ite, 6lobe   

Who was *Hwf?
&w Htwhes. Hei?die )S wowe.,1^ about-* Hch arl whocfi peh mrr&vr rsTrorw -foWftxaa bTete of th.-trades  Dift^/obei Lmine see,
pubic1in
Sure.do
MtekuflcneousBy Craig Schlecter
dr77f'^d3ioIk 1Vlntnlnm& POINT# ws n4rfyy^ is SIMPLE m*(\ wmn. i
WlL Hm BLOQUENT UPON
Sme 43u7nf Cu um HT 
CMU SUOi AS, HHY J muip Serru* m* H u4^7P3 4 w. 
coMffim mr m IWti PG&BtfS, 
WT* 4 HALF PAGE to M*x aik 
C\Trluuy Fifmmcx tr M/^k
m HWE Aut&sr fto c^p'b( flfif!
1 $& NO mrnm fy ny^T'^7 
LiseiF To a mm W4
tstTso. i )y^.fH SAE
f SOME OF YOU MIGHT de I A UTlLe,..CONFUSP A5 TO 
M*r$QQim ON here. 
allo* MB TO EUX &ATE. i x8RKX#CS Ir 5TUCC0 ' 13 
\M0 MORE, nOU, THR / \. Voluum-----^
e> THE PUTRIP
Taar arm tnAa T rLenm* \ 
of mets, wH6i?t to eem?Jrr5 sm with THcxomwufti&f ' WEXHtfi - **/-/Hi'
ir-OR-NGT
of; couvre* s^ias yowowes CMU 4TrflvfSr 70 "
fiVNtiHemH-w oomn&&
SFkflhlEXflk <1^ TMIises 
O m ^iafeffii Ibofl} wfll i^totraa
ISXS5ft
These are the answers to 
last week's puzzle.
Ah! I put it in the rechargesocket!

---------------------------------------------------

February 9,1988The TartanPage D9
Grafitti will host two new bands
By DAN BIDWA 
Diversions Music Critic
Next Monday, the fifteenth, the Connells and 
Scruffy the Cat will be appearing at Graffiti for 
what should be one of the be one of the best 
concerts of the semester.
Hie Connells, formed by brothers Mike and 
David Connell in September of 1984, have just 
released their second album Boylan Heights 
(well, not just - the album was out before 
Christmas, and, if you had been listening to 
WRCT instead of WXXP, you would have 
known this for yourself and I wouldnt have to 
waste my time telling you) on TVT Records to 
virtual oodles of critical and popular acclaim, 
^he band, consisting of Mike on lead guitar, 
David on bass, Peele Wimberley on drums, 
Doug MacMillan on lead vocals, and George 
Huntley on guitar and keyboards, hail from the 
South but avoid REM comparisons by main
taining a bit janglier sound and the first proper 
usage of keyboards Ive heard in ages (the 
keyboards are enhancements to the songs, 
rather than supporting the entire song on a 
flimsy riff). The songs, largely written by 
Mike, although each member writes his own 
parts, rely on some nifty harmonies between 
the vocal, guitar, and keyboard lines, and are 
eminently hummable. In fact, the entire album 
is above the average alternative pop fluff 
heard on many radio stations. If another anal
ogy is needed, think of the Smiths without 
Morriseys whining. Or just think of your 
favorite band, and go one better.
Yet another band out of Boston, Scruffy the 
Cat first appeared five Januaries ago, and 
wowed fans and critics with their strippeddown, full-blown, old-style-rock-and-rollwithout-any-flashy-theatrics. After playing
about a zillion shows, they finally released 
their first vinyl, High Octane Revival, an EPon 
Relativity Records. Lots of important sorts 
liked it, and it did well on the independent 
charts. After some more touring, the band then 
released Tiny Days, their first full-length LP, 
which did fairly well, and even got a video of 
Mybabyshesallright, one of the albums 
singles, on that cultural mecca called MTV. 
Then they toured some more. Now theyve 
released Boom Boom Boom Bingo, a halfway 
live EP with two new tracks, You Dirty Rat 
and Runaway, and live versions of two of 
their previously released tunes as well as a 
cover of Del Shannons Runaway. Come 
next Monday, they're touring again, and will 
be opening up for the Connells Monday.
If you still arent convinced of these bands 
worth, spend the $7.00 and go see for yourself. 
(Oh, stop moaning - it works out to $3.50 per 
band, which is CHEAP in these days of $ 15.00 
tickets for losers like Flesh For Lulu and Gene 
Loves Jezebel.) There will be two shows, one 
at 7:00 for the non-alcoholic sorts, and one at 
10:00 for those who are emotionally mature 
enough to drink a beer and not lose their mind 
(this is a physical change that occurs at 21, or 
at least the LCB says it is). As previously 
stated, the tickets are seven bucks, available at 
Eides Records, Kaufmanns, Heads Together, 
the Graffiti box office, and all the other record 
stores that normally carry tickets for these 
things. Incidentally, CMU students can save a 
buck by getting their tickets from the Info 
Desk, as can Pitt students by getting their 
tickets from the William Pitt Student Union 
(gee, who do you think theyre targeting for 
this concert? I certainly cant tell...). Check it 
out.Bach for Valentines Day
\ iy MICHAEL SCHWARTZ
Diversions Music Critic
As a special Valentines Day treat for all of 
you classical music lovers out there, Musics 
Recreation, presented by The Renaissance 
and Baroque Society of Pittsburgh, will be 
performing in a concert entitled The Inti
mate Bach on Saturday. The concert is set for 
an 8:00 pm start in the Synod Hall of St. Pauls 
Pathedral, 125 North Craig Street.
Musics Recreation was founded in 1979 in 
the Netherlands and is currently in its fourth 
season as the Ensemble-in-Residence with 
the Renaissance and Baroque Society of Pitts
burgh. The group is also in its first season in 
Residence at the University of Washington in 
Seattle. They are an ensemble dedicated to the 
performance of Baroque music on instru
ments common to that period. In keeping with 
this approach, The Intimate Bach will fea
ture several instruments that were common in
Baroque Music
Bachs time. The ensemble has made several 
radio and television appearances and will be 
recording their second compact disc for 
Meridian Records in London sometime this 
summer.
The program will include the famous Sonata 
in C Minor for Violin and Harpsichord, the 
Sonata in E Minor for Flute and Basso Continuo, the trio Sonata in G Major, the Trio 
Sonata in C Major, the Trio Sonata in G 
Major, Organ Trio in E flat, and the Sonata 
in D Major for Viola da Gamba and Harpsi
chord.
Tickets for The Intimate Bach" are available 
at the TIX booth, at the Pitt Student Union or 
by phone. Call (412) 682-7262 for tickets and 
additional information. Price for tickets is 
$10.00 for adults or $5.00 for students.
O
V
SWETfltfLWRiT Of A TflOAL SALT,
yTo the students at Titt and CMZl 
We are the thrift shop for you 
We Have stashed our Cowest price 
We do more than suffice 
And zoe support the opera* tool!!
260 t,8yVVMg,CUU, v FbI,,s98CNSDEw15213 ?682 3242
DH2210 THIS WEEK
Thursday, February II
The Blue Angel
This is an entertaining movie about a high-school teacher who falls for a young, sexy 
dancer. Lola Lola, the character of the dancer, is quite a strange one indeed: she is young 
and wild but falls for the gallant older man and strives to be a good wife to him. As 
someone once said, It is odd to see one so young and so cynical, referring to Lola's 
character. The film is an adaptation of Heinrich Mann's pre-war novel Professor 
Unrath.
Starring: Emil Jannings, Marlene Dietrich, Kurt Gerron, Hans Albers 
Director: Joseph von Sternberg 
Showtimes: 6,8,10
Friday. February 12
Stakeout
Two police detectives (Richard Dreyfuss, Emilio Estevez) are assigned to watch the 
apartment of a girlfriend of an escaped convict. One of the cops falls for the girl and gets 
himself into a mess of trouble when another shift of police officers arrives. Then he gets 
into really deep trouble when the convict comes back to his girl. Plenty of action and 
plenty of comedy.
Starring: Richard Dreyfuss, Emilio Estevez, Aidan Quinn, Madeleine Stowe 
Director: John Badham 
Showtimes: 6,8,10,12
Saturday, February 13
Baby Boom
Think of every yuppie stereotype and cliche. Theyre all in this movie about a career 
woman who is put in charge of raising a baby girl. She loses all control and sanity and 
eventually leaves her job in Manhattan, moves to Vermont and slowly goes stir crazy. 
Then, in a typical happy ending switch, she starts her own company, makes a quick 
million, and falls in love with Sam Shepard. This satirical comedy fits the eighties way 
too well.
Starring: Diane Keaton, Harold Ramis, Sam Shepard 
Director: Charles Shyer 
Showtimes: 6,8,10,12
Sunday, February 14
Creepshow
Stephen King and director George Romero team up on this humorous horror movie that 
pays tribute to horror comedies of the 1950s. The five different stories each involve 
somebody getting munched in a gross way. Not really all that scary and not really all that 
funny, but those are the best ways to describe this film. Stephen King even acts in one 
of the stories. Partially filmed here on campus, which is why there are still really big 
cockroaches in the basement of Margaret Morrison Hall. (Just kidding!)
Starring: Hal Holbrook, Adrienne Barbeau, Fritz Weaver, Leslie Nielsen 
Director: George Romero 
Showtimes: 6,8,10,12
By JOHN GINSBURG
R
fa t&foMfi'b<F>7-T3->\,0
n'tm 's'I'o
hIVS^)II*.Tu'ix.{ ') 9il Kl\ S. A. iX
iy RECRUIT U.S.A., INC. (800) 325-9759
V CITICORP PLAZA, 725 S. FIGUEROA ST., SUITE 3100 LOS ANGELES, CA 90017 ^ PHONE: (213) 955-4900
'i'-tt&xoik 1WAY

---------------------------------------------------

Page DIOThe TartanFebruary 9,1988
Carlin to play 
Syria Mosque
By AMANDA COHEN
Diversions Comedy Critic
A comedian who can stay in the busi
ness for thirty years and stay original at 
the same time is a rare creature. Come
dians who last often develop a fixed 
routine and stay with it, and comedians 
who change constantly sometimes 
never fully perfect their material. 
George Carlin is the happy medium, 
demonstrating a staying power that is 
nearly unequalled and seemingly limit
less creativity.
In addition to his albums, HBO spe
cials, commercials, movies, books, and 
other special projects, Carlin still does 
100 stage shows a year, and Pittsburgh 
will be lucky enough to get one this 
Friday. Generally his stand-up tours are 
outlets for his newest thoughts. Anyone 
who saw Carlins last Pittsburgh ap
pearance may have noticed that the sub
sequently released album, Carlin at 
Carnegie, had most of the same mate
rial. Dont expect to hear much of his old 
stuff at the show on Friday.
If you are a Carlin fan, however, do 
look for his new movie, Bill and Ted's 
Excellent Adventure, and his new 
books. But dont forget his forte, standup comedy. This Friday, Carlin will be 
performing at the Syria Mosque, with a 
special guest, at 7:30. Tickets are avail
able at the Syria Mosque Box Office for 
$17, so put down this paper and get 
yourself one immediately.
Give Madonna and Debbie Gibson a listen
By MICHAEL SCHWARTZ
Diversions Music Critic
Madonna
You Can Dance
That Girl is on her way up the charts again 
with her latest release, You Can Dance, 
Madonnas first greatest hits tape.
You Can Dance contains only one new track, 
the dance tune Spotlight. It appears that 
Madonna wont be releasing this single, 
though. The album has been out since October 
but nothing has hit the top 100, at least not yet. 
A selection of the music, entitled You Can 
Dance (LP Cuts) is popular on the dance 
charts.
If youre planning on buying this album, the 
cassette contains four special dub versions 
only available on cassette. Besides Spot
light, Holiday, Everybody, Physical 
Attraction, Holiday (Dub Version), Over 
and Over, Into the Groove, Wheres the 
Party, and Into the Groove (Dub Version), 
the cassette also includes Spotlight (Dub 
Version), and Over and Over (Dub Ver
sion). The dub mixes to Into the Groove 
and Holiday on the cassette are slightly 
different than the dub mixes on the CD of the 
same songs. Except for the dub mixes of 
Spotlight and Over and Over, the CD 
contains the same songs as well as Wheres 
the Party (Dub Mix). Once again, the dub 
mixes of Into the Groove and Holiday are 
different on the CD than on the cassette.
These songs from every stage of Madonnas 
career were taken back into the studio and 
remixed by producers, DJs, and engineers 
like Jellybean Benitez, who produced the 
original Holiday and the new track Spot
light. Steve Thompson and Michael Barbiero
added to the original Nile Rodgers production 
of Over and Over. The dub mixes of Into 
the Groove and Wheres the Party were 
done by Shep Pettibone. Finally, Every
body was remixed by Bruce Forest of Better 
Days in New York.
Get ready to party with this album cause 
You Can Dance is more than just its title, its 
an open invitation.
Debbie Gibson
Out of the Blue
Singer/Songwriter Debbie Gibson has found 
success and its not Only in Her Dreams. 
This seventeen-year-old superstar not only 
wrote all of the material on her album but she 
also helped produce several of the tracks. One 
of the tracks, Foolish Beat, was produced 
solely by Gibson.
Although her first two singles, Only in My 
Dreams and Shake Your Love, both failed 
to reach the No. 1 spot, each was a number one 
12" remix. In fact, the 12" remix of Only in
PITTSBURGH  During the last 30 years, 
professional photographer Joel B. Levinson 
has made a name for himself beyond the steel 
industry with his panoramic views of 
Pittsburghs gleaming cityscape.
But his trained eye has focused with equal 
skill on other subjects as well, and one of the 
most interesting in his portfolio is Women  
As I Find Them, a collection of 30 prints 
scheduled for display Feb. 1 -29 at the Squirrel 
Hill Branch of the Carnegie Library. Library 
hours are from noon to 8 pm, Monday through 
Thursday; 9 am to 5 pm Friday and Saturday, 
and 2 pm to 5 pm on Sunday.
My Dreams went on to become the number 
one 12" of 1987. The single Only in My 
Dreams spent 35 weeks in the top 100 
longer than any other single in 87.
The main reason that Gibsons first two hits 
failed to make the No. 1 spot is that thev 
reached the top of the charts at the same time 
as other better-known pop superstars. 
Gibsons next release, the title track to her 
album Out of the Blue and one of the tracks that 
Gibson co-produced with producer Fred Zarr, 
is in the record stores now and will be hitting 
the charts soon. This tune should do at least as 
well as her first two.
Several other tracks from Out of the Blue 
have good chart potential. The dance tune^ 
Fallen Angel, Staying Together, and 
Play the Field all have a good chance of 
making the top-ten. The dance tune Red Hot 
is a sure bet for at least top-5. Of all of the 
remaining tracks, the ballad Between the 
Lines has the best shot at reaching No. 1.
Levinson and his wife Toba will host a recep
tion at the Library on Thursday, Feb. 4 from 6 
pm to 8 pm. The Squirrel Hill branch of the 
Carnegie Library is located on the comer of 
Forbes and Murray Avenues. The exhibition 
and reception are free and open to the public.
For years, Levinson has been collecting 
images of women captured in situations he 
finds compelling. The collection exhibit 
represents a small, concentrated fraction of the 
photographs of women in his portfolio, the 
inspiration for which he says came from a 
personal ad in the Cape May Weekly f.om a 
mother to her son.
Exhibit runs at Squirrel Hill Library
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING 
Sun.- Thurs. 7-10 P.M.
CALCULUS PIi
PHYSICS Pt
CHEMISTRY PI
ECONOMICS pi
ACADEMIC WRITING PI
INTRO. TO COMPUTING W<
Sponsored by Counseling & Student Development Center and Student Affairs
?

---------------------------------------------------

Confucius said: A gentleman does 
not grieve that people do not recog
nize his merits; he grieves at his own 
incapacities.
261 days ago we met.
235 days ago we kissed.
193 days ago we were in 
Monroeville.
I love you more with each 
passing day.
RRRRING! RRRRNG!
. Hello?
Hi. Whats up?
Uh, not much. What time is it? 
1:00 am. You werent sleeping this 
early, were you?
Well...
f Even when shes standing still, you 
can see her moving.
I look for you everywhere I go.
I think of you everywhere I go.
I need you everywhere I go.
-The Call
Heather J.-
Your Kite sister loves you!
HPIf you are the desert 
Ill be the sea.
If you ever hunger - 
Hunger for me.
Whatever you ask for,
Thats what Ill be...
Because I love you 
-BF
U -1 would die 4 U
-Prince
Jackie Wj Id love to take you out, but if I
asked, youd probably laugh.
JulesTurn on your headlight.
- Otis-Bear
Revenge is a desire of the weak.
Your optimistic eyes seem like 
paradise to someone like me.
-M.L. Gore
Charlie & KeithThank you for the night of our 
lives!
-Wendy and Patty
RobLook. We've had just about 
enough of this. Either you come 
down here this week or we come up 
there and get you.
Don't think you can continue to 
avoid us.
- Truancy Division 
Hell
I know Im unlovable 
You dont have to tell me 
For message received 
Loud and clear,
Loud and clear.
-Morrissey
Youre the one who looks like Nell 
Carter  only fatter!
-Jell
PeliceIf Jacks in love, hes no judge of 
Jills beauty.
-Fete
Jonny B.-
Youre little!
- ???
BruceYou should see my new girl
friend. Shes got huge ... tracts of 
land.
-The Doctor
No more weird stuff ever!
When she glows in the dark 
And Im weak by the sight 
Of this breathtaking beauty 
In which I can hide.
-Pal Waaktaar
Love your enemies.
Warning! The people who keep 
crank-calling x4237 better stop or 
else they will suffer the conse
quences! I know who you are and I 
will make your lives living hells!
-The man under the seats
The reports of Christines broken leg 
are greatly exaggerated.
CopsThere is no remedy for love but 
to love more.
-Shoe Stuffers
KazYoure just a love machine. We 
wont operate with anyone but you.
BitsyYoure huge!
WARNING! Pb concentration of 
newspaper ink is 35 micrograms per 
gram! Do you knowr where your 
Tech book is?
Grape ApeCan I peel you a banana?
-Signed, Unsigned
PatYoure still the only true woman 
on campus.
-Gen
Why are you all wearing the same 
sweatshirts?
To the most romantic couple in 
Pittsburgh: stop hitting each other 
on the head!
-The Fag Hags
B.L.-
Gotta love that candy com! 
Happy Valentines Day! Love...
-G. C. Esquire
I wish I had a friend who sounded 
like Neil Young, so that when I'm 
down, I could just listen to him talk.
If you dont want to talk to em, then 
dont answer the phone!
Just think, it could have been Drew 
Barrymore!
I wouldnt let a man named Bubba 
feed me!
Send submissions to: 
Vox Populi 
c/o the Tartan 
Skibo Info. Desk
o
<>
1
Classifieds
Jobs/Wanted
Wanted: Students: Earn extra money today, 
for the holidays and Spring Break 1988. No 
experience necessary, opportunity to be your 
own boss, work your own hours, earn unlim
ited income, prizes and trips. Call today, 
Florida Sands Promotions (904) 257-2467
HELP WANTED: Whitewater Raft 
Guides  Spring, Summer, Fall  Week
ends and Fulltime. We will train.
Mountain Streams and Trails Outfitters in
formational meeting  Saturday, Feb. 13 at
10 am, 5 miles N. of Ohiopyle, PA on Rt. 381. 
Call (412) 329-4730 for directions.
WANTED: Artists, sculptors, etc., seeking 
publication and distribution of their work in 
high quality color publication. For informa
tion and application form, write: Morgan 
House, Division of Greater Toledo Publica
tions, Inc., 317 10th Street, Toledo, Ohio 
43624. Enclose name, address (city, state, 
zip), phone number, and non-returnable 
photo or slide of works.
Stress, Smoking and Women's Health.
Female Smokers (18-30): learn how your 
body copes with stress and smoking. Earn 
$20 in a two hour session. Blood samples 
will be taken. For more information, call 
Female Smokers Study daytime  624- 
0769, evening  624-2041.
Collecting contact data for booklet for 
resource for the blind  Needed: volun
teers to read to the Blind within campus 
community. If interested, please contact 
Christine or Everett x2012. Please specify 
reading interest (general, technical, humani
ties, etc.).
HOMEWORKERS WANTED! TOP PAY!
C. 1.121 24th Ave., N. W. Suite 222, Norman 
OK 73069.
STUDENT EMPLOYMENT OFFICE
40 jobs still available to all CMU students, 
both work-study and non work-study eli
gible. Clerical, Programming, Word Proc
essing. Pick up a Job Directory in the Finan
cial Aid Office, Warner Hall. Job Assistance 
interviews available. Call x2068.
ACTIVIST? Call us to get in on a great 
opportunity to sharpen those communication 
and community organizing skills for politi
cal social change! We need articulate, caring 
people for part-time or full-time career op
portunities. We offer $5-$ 10/hour. Hours: 5- 
9:30 pm/l:30-9:30 pm. Call 566-2290. See 
us on campus at the job fair.
Students Needed!!! Local area firm re
quires 25 high-quality students (m/f) for 
market study. Flexible Hours, pay rate be
tween $6.35-$8.00/ based on prior experi
ence. Any major may apply. Car needed. Call 
between 12 and 5 pm. 561-0337.
Theater Three one of the 3 major journals in 
the US is looking for volunteers willing to 
donate a few hours time. If you have skills in 
desk top publishing, proof reading, or word 
processing please contact; Lisa Arthur, 
Margaret Morrison 222, 268-2404.
Housing
Apartment Rental: Shadyside. 1-Bedroom, wall-to-wall, security system, newly 
redecorated. 621-2873
Live in the lap of luxury in this beautiful 
two bedroom Shadyside apartment with an 
EQUIPPED kitchen, log burning fireplace, 
bay windows, central air conditioning and 
on-site laundry for the low low price of $450/ 
mo. + utilities. For more info call 462-7316
For Rent  one BR garden condo/ ww/ 
equipped kitchen/ gas heat/ drapes/ conven
ient/ Regent Square area/ 352-9553
Want to talk about God next year? Rooms 
available in Tech House, 15 Roselawn Ter
race, call x4391 for more information. Ask 
for Sonja, Bob, or Matthew.
Services
Research Papers: 15,278 available! Cata
log $2. Research, 11322 Idaho, #206XT, Los 
Angeles 90025. Toll free (800) 351-0222, 
Ext. 33. Visa/MC or COD
ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING 
or WORD PROCESSING 
The Medium is the Message 
So why just type your documents when they 
can look printed and ready to publish with 
Electronic Publishing? Itll cost more, but 
its worth it! Your work will command the 
attention it deserves.
Select from many typefaces. We can even 
scan your typed text or read your computers 
text and set it into type, without the need for
retyping. Were professionals with heavy 
duty hardware & software capabilities for the 
most sophisticated documents including 
header, footers, footnotes, index, table of 
contents, pictures and line art  all to pro
duce any kind of document, no matter how 
simple or complex.
Call Tedd Powell at:
SUNNEYLEDGE GRAPHICS 
Fifth & Wilkins Aves.
Pittsburgh, PA 15232 (412) 687-3445
Lust in "88? Wanderlust that is! You can
see the U.S., Europe or Asia this summer 
using safe, inexpensive International Youth 
Hostels. Nearly 300 in the U.S. with 5,000 
world-wide. For membership rate informa
tion write: Hostels c/o Pittsburgh A YH, 6300 
Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh PA 15232, or call 
362-8181, leave message.
Pregnant? Need help?  Confidential 
counseling  Free pregnancy test  262:1220, 
Airport Area Crisis Pregnancy Center.
WORD PROCESSING TYPING  Stu
dent papers, Resumes, Letters. Can store for 
future use. Reasonable rates. Call Kathy 
(826-0458) weekdays after 5:00 or week
ends.
Alex's Flowers for your Valentine...687- 
4128. Balloons (Love and like), Long stem 
roses, assorted colors. More... DELIVERY 
687-4128 * 687-ALEX, 192 N. Craig Street.
For Sale
Matching sofa, loveseat, and chair set for 
sale. Asking $375. For information call 621 - 
2911.
V

---------------------------------------------------


