The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 84, Number 6, October 11, 1983.
appeals ruling
Walter makes decision
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan News Editor
Dean of Student Affairs Braden Walter 
has confirmed rumors concerning his final 
the ZBT case:
1) CMU is withdrawing recognition of 
year. This means ZBT cannot
participate as a fraternity in Spring Carnival 
(buggy and booth), Greek Sing, or Intramu
rals. Though ZBT still has its charter, CMU 
is not recognizing the charter.
2) ZBT cannot advertise parties.
Also included in Walters decision were 
terms regarding rush and pledges. However, 
ZBT has appealed this part of the ruling. 
The decision of the final appeal board  
consisting of President Richard M. Cyert, 
Vice-President of Academic Affairs J. Pat 
Walter  is expected late this 
week. The validity of ZBTs fall pledge class 
is contingent upon this decision.
No one at ZBT, Incorporated (National 
Headquarters), of which CMUs ZBT is a 
part, was available for comment.
When asked if he had overturned the Dis
ciplinary Committees decision, Walter rep
lied, The committee makes recommen
dations to me, and I make a decision. I make 
my decision in consultation with the frater
nity, other students, Warner Hall, and other 
fraternities.
He added, The fraternities are not inte
gral to the Universitys function. Theyre 
invited here. They live in University Hous
ing, so if a frat doesnt live up to University 
standards, they dont have to stay. However, 
1 do believe in a strong fraternity system."
WTalter continued, I think the potential 
loss of life was serious. I think people in the 
fraternity system are concerned about the 
incident.
We cant let this slide. Otherwise the 
fraternities might think anything goes.-'
White team quarterback Dave Zito leads the Tartans to a 35-0 defeat of previously unde
feated Allegheny to maintain Number 1 nationwide Division III ranking.
By WAYNE MESARD
Tartan Staff writer
Dr. Jill Larkin, of rife psychology depart
ment, has been appointed head of the newly 
formed University Center for Design in Edu
cational Computing (CDEC).
CDEC's purpose is to study and imple
ment computers towards specific coursework. For example, they will help facultyVandalism board formed again
By NEAL JOHNSTON
Tartan Staffwriter
CMUs Student Dormitory Council has 
formed their Review Board again this year, 
established for students wishing to contest a 
charge of vandalism against them. SDC
Fall rush ends
President Tom Rieger wants students 
informed about this board in the event they 
feel theyve been unfairly accused.
The Review Board consists of the SDC 
President and three Vice-Presidents with an 
alternate. Our duty, states Rieger, is to
235 pledge fraternities
$y PAULINE WEN
Tartan News Editor 
Fall Rush 83 ended with a bang Friday 
night, as the twelve fraternities welcomed 
new pledges in their own style. Altogether 
235 pledged into fraternities, and here they 
are:
ALPHA TAU OMEGA: (24) Joe Smolira, Mike Lavalle, Robert Mays, Cameron 
Poluszek, Ken Harris, J. Angelo, Bob 
Bowser, Paul Paridon, George Kay, Marc 
Muster, Dan Corletti, Ed Pultz, Dave Vurelsa, Chris Chen, Glenn Wrohl, Matt Price, 
hris Lewis, Vic Boland, Nick Liston, Joe 
arecht, Anthony Bernard, Gregory Chem "Tim Carson and Mike Hensel.
BETA THETA PI: (18) Mike Behling, 
nzil Boss, Brian Crain, Tom Frost, Ed 
^alloger, Jerry Mancini, David Mickey, 
Ron One, Dan Preston, John Rickert, Dan 
Serao, Karl Shearer, Brad Sherwin, Neal 
Shipley, Jim Slater, Jude Sweeney, Roy 
leresky, Matt Wagner.
DELTA TAU DELTA: (15) Alexander 
Biagioli, Gregory Bleinann, James Byron, 
John Carroll, John Dickie, Kenneth 
Doyno, John Faucett, Peter Freeman, David 
Greiner, Grant Hamilton, John Herliley,
Tom Koshut, Christopher Oliver, Alan 
Schneider, Geoffrey Traenlcel.
DELTA UPSILON: (14) Marco Aurelio, 
Tom Bonvissuto, Ken Bram, John 
Cuningham, Todd Donmoyer, Philip 
Gabiele, John Hall, Mark Lieberman, Pat 
McMullen, Greg Morse, Mitch Stolark, 
Evan Traiger, Kurt Zander, Dave Zumbro.
KAPPA SIGMA: (17) James Bischoff, 
Daniel Buckley, Matt Caiman, Joseph Dragos, Timothy Durham, Patrick Greene, 
Richard Hall, Steven Harper, James Kinsella, Bill Maas, Paul Morin, Randy Paul 
Stanley Rembisz, Jamie Shafer, David Stalnaker, Michael Stowell, Thomas Whalen.
PHI KAPPA THETA: (21) Phil Renner, 
Chris Kirby, Mike Connolly, Mike Zionts, 
Mitchell London, Wes Doonan, Pat Shea, 
Matt Fortnow, Gary Krummeit, Steve Gil
bert, Mike Fitterman, John Bamak, Mark 
Singer, Time Schetier, Andy Benton, Jeff 
Weed, Scott Acher, Chris Leech, Yin Rage, 
Gordon Farr, Scott Morris.
PI KAPPA ALPHA: (14) Alex Bachrach, 
Roger Berenson, Bob Ferrer, Steve Francis, 
Steve Jochnau, Rick Kinkela, Tom Marchok, Jon McDonald, Nick Pemokas, 
continued on page 5
decide whos liable. Were not a disciplinary 
board, and I hope people understand that. 
He also remarks that vandalism charges 
were previously issued only twice a semester; 
starting this year theyll be made out each 
month so appropriate action can be taken 
sooner.
SDC's Housing Committee is currently 
trying to change a part of the ruling on 
vandalism. As of now if any property com
mon to an entire dorm is damaged, all of the 
residents therein are held accountable. How 
ever, if it is only something of use to certain 
people in that dorm, then only they will be 
held responsible. An example, says 
Rieger, is the mens bathroom in the lobby 
of Morewood. Last year it was vandalized 
and all the residents were charged. In the 
case of a revision and something like this 
occurs again, only the men would be 
answerable for it, since I doubt women 
would use the mens room for any purpose, 
Rieger replies.
So far only one case has been hard this 
year concerning CMUs previously owned 
Louisa apartments. More are expected, how 
ever, as soon as the monthly charge sheets go 
into effect. So if any student feels that he/she 
has reasonable grounds for appeal, the fol
lowing action should be taken: type out 
your name, phone extension, w'hat charge 
youre questioning and w hy and drop it into 
the SDC box at the Skibo Information Desk. 
The Review Beard w ill in turn contact you 
when they receive the appeal and a hearing 
will be scheduled. But remember  the 
Board isnt there for advocating or enforcing 
the rules, only to decide whos responsible 
for damage.
make the best use of the available computa
tional power. Some of the improvements 
that will be seen in educational computing 
in the near future are smarter programs and 
more generalized programs. As the compu
ters become capable of processing more 
information in less time, they will be able to 
communicate more effectivelv with the user, 
and also to better understand exactly what 
the user wants it to do. This will allow tor 
more generalized and friendlier programs.
CDEC was placed under the psychology 
department because both CDEC and psy
chology' are concerned wdth helping people 
to leam and to solve problems, according to 
Larkin. She feels that constant interaction 
with students and faculty is an important 
element in accomplishing the goals for 
which CDEC was designed. Larkin has a 
professional interest in how college stu
dents leam aw'ful subjects.
The hiring of faculty consultants has 
already begun. Their task is to find out what 
is needed in the area erf educational comput
ing at CMU. Additionally, there are plans to 
involve the communications department to 
make the software on campus easier to work 
with. There is also a budget for hiring stu
dents, both programmers and non
programmers.
In this issue
Editorial
How about a dry Rush?.................. page 2
News
Counseling sponsors workshops ., page 4 
Congress may cut more aid ...... page 5
Features
Computer raider describes break-in page 7 
Sky divers take a leap".................. page 8
Entertainment
Woody Allens "Zelig redeeming page 11 
New Cabaret c onies to Froggys .. page 13
Sports
Tartans obliterate Gators............. page 15
Tartans seize No. 1 in nation .... page 16

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.______________________
Dry rush system improves fraternities
The fraternities should start having dry 
rush.
There are problems with alcohol on cam
pus, and most of them center around the frats. 
Everyone knows, for instance, about the fresh
man who almost died at the ZBT party a few 
weeks ago from drinking 24 shots of whiskey. 
Were sure there have been other incidents at 
other fraternities as well; its not the first time 
that someone has gotten too drunk at a frat 
party.
Why should frats emphasize alcohol so 
much? Rush is supposed to be a time for fresh
men to evaluate the fraternities; how good an 
evaluation is a student going to make if he 
cant remember anything? Hell probably
pledge the frat that served him the best drinks. 
In other words, the frats are depending on 
alcohol to promote themselves. Any frat that 
depends on alcohol in this way doesnt deserve 
to be on this campus.
This fall, for the first time, Pitt tried a dry 
rush. They had no major problems, and the 
number of pledges was not much lower than 
normal. The large fraternities all made their 
quotas, and the small ones, which are unpre
dictable anyway, didnt suffer badly. Here, 
where most of our frats are about the same size, 
this probably would not cause problems. Once 
the frats get used to the idea, there will proba
bly be no change, or an increase, in the number 
of pledges. It is interesting to note that the
fraternities, not the administration, brought  
on the dry rush at Pitt. \
Pitt has been working on revising its alcohol 
policy for a while. Theirs too, was in reaction 
to a major incident; one of their studetns 
jumped out of a window last year to avoid 
being caught drinking by the police who were 
outside his door. He didnt survive.
Dry rush would be a good opportunity to 
prove that alcohol is not necessary for social 
life. Instead of getting wasted at twelve differ
ent houses, people might do something 
constructive.
Dry rush is a good idea, especially now. Lets 
not wait a year to react, like Pitt did; lets take 
their lead and try to be reasonable now.
Labor party's no-weapons platform is suicidal
By Stuart Shapiro
You cant help but admire the British 
Labor Partys commitment to their cause. 
Never let it be said that they allowed reason 
or pragmatism to divert them from their 
H  lofty objectives. The resolutions
produced by this years annual 
 I party conference clearly demon
strated this undiminished 
resolve in the face of unsympathetic reality.
If anyone expected the Labor Party to 
discretely drift to the right in the wake of last 
Junes disastrous election results, they were 
rudely dissuaded from holding any such 
view by the rhetoric that was flowing thick 
and fast at last weeks conference. A resolu
tion passed by an overwhelming majority 
unequivocally stated that the next Labor 
government will unconditionally scrap all 
nuclear weapons systems and remove all
American bases from British soil. No cruise 
missiles. No Trident subs. No Polaris subs. 
No anything. No change, no retreat, uni
lateral disarmament in the life of the next 
Labor government, went the batde cry.
If that is indeed Labors battle cry, then 
they may have quite a long wait before the 
next Labor government. Not only were 
nuclear weapons and American bases the 
objects of thunderous denouncements, but 
NATO itself was subjected to less than flat
tering oratory.
So much for what Labor thinks. Now for 
the rest of the country.
The results of the 1983 election clearly 
indicated that the vast majority of Britons 
are in less than complete agreement with the 
Labor Party. While Im sure few of them 
find nuclear weapons particularly delight
ful or appealing, they nevertheless appar
ently find the notion of trusting to God and 
the benevolent inclinations of the Soviet 
Union (few and far between) even less palat
able. Many voters appear to still agree with 
the Labor MP who described his partys 
1983 election platform as the longest suicide 
note ever written.
The more fanciful interpretation of 
Labors left wing would have us believe that 
the failure of the voters to rally around the 
unilateral disarmament standard was a 
result of poor advertising. The plan is now, 
as it always seems to be, to retain the policy 
position and to start building a majority 
for it among the masses. Such honest and 
frank reassessment of a simplistic and tho
roughly rebuffed position is certainly 
refreshing.
Does Labor really have a death wish?
Apparently sufficient numbers of Laborites 
do so as to threaten to take the entire Party 
with them. Departing deputy Labor leader 
Dennis Healey warned members that the 
present stance has been perceived during the 
campaign as being anti-NATO and anti
defense. There is no reason to believe that 
perception has changed. It probably wont 
change because Labors position is essen
tially anti-NATO and in some respects anti
defense.
When and if the Soviets are ever prepared 
to dismantle their nukes, that perception 
will undoubtedly change and rightfully so. 
But until then, the rest of Britain will insist 
on living in the real world. The Labor Party 
should try it as well.
Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student in 
Applied History and is a columnist for The 
Tartan.
Abortion argument more than just two-sided issue
By Wendy Scott
Two weeks ago I wrote about the fraterni
ties, a currently controversial topic. This 
week I am approaching, with fear and trem
bling, a perenially and universally contro
versial topic: abortion.
VCT Throughout my years in college I have resolutely avoided 
discussing this issue. I have firm 
convictions about abortion, but I have 
found it to be a topic which generates too 
much emotion and dogmatism to be dis
cussed rationally and reasonably with very 
many people. So I just dont discuss it. How
ever, I have to write about something, and 
now may be the time to voice my opinion 
and my criticisms.
First of all, abortion is far too often treated 
as a polar issue: good or bad, right or wrong. 
There is actually a whole host of possible 
views on abortion, yet the jargon demands 
that we be either Pro-Life or ProChoice. Many people would favor abor
tion only in certain cases, while others 
believe in abortion on demand. There are 
too many viewpoints to treat abortion as an 
either-or issue. Parenthetically, this is proba
bly true or many so-called polar issues, such 
as capital punishment or gun control.
Dont get me wrong. I am not maintain
ing we use situational ethics here, deciding 
case by case whether abortion is right or 
wrong. I am merely claiming that the lobby
ists, the legislature, and the media incor
rectly treat abortion as an issue with only 
two sides.
The major problem I have with both the 
Pro-Life and the Pro-Choice movements is 
their tendency to focus on only one aspec t of 
abortion The Pro-Choice organizations are 
concerned with the individual woman and 
her legal right to determine her own life; her
right to choose or reject motherhood, inde
pendently of her biological status.
Conversely, and perhaps necessarily, ProChoice individuals implicitly deny the 
infant, or fetus if you will, any legal rights. 
That is not meant as an accusation; it is a 
statement of fact.
The irony is that, while affirming the 
rights of one individual, the mother, ProChoice groups deny the rights of another, 
the infant. Partially, I believe, in order to 
justify this, there have been many recent 
attempts to pinpoint when life begins. Is the 
fetus alive? If one is able to respond no to 
that question then abortion is not denying 
anyones rights. The verdict on the fetus 
status is not in. It never can be, because its 
purely subjective judgment  a statement 
of belief.
Pro-life groups, by contrast, see only the 
rights of the infant. Abortion is treated as 
murder, and all too frequently, the woman 
as a murderer. My perspective on this is 
colored by the experiences of women I know 
who have had or considered abortions. The 
picture of the woman who has an abortion 
as uncaring and unaffected by it is grossly 
inaccurate. Perhaps one in a thousand is 
such, but the majority experience real con
flict and anguish, much of which goes unex
pressed. The women I know are truly hurt 
by such rejection, even though it may not be 
specifically directed at thofn. In other words, 
harsh literature and comments greatly affect 
them. A major emotional effect of an abor
tion is guilt, and condemnation does not 
help.
If I may partially digTess for a moment, 
the mandate judge not lest ye be judged 
seems to apply here. Many of the actively 
Pro-Life individuals I have met either
implicitly or explicitly condemn women 
who seek abortions. I do not believe we have 
the prerogative to condemn each other. 
With this issue especially, we must separate 
the person from his or her actions. Even 
though we may question, or even despise, 
the action we cannot therefore despise the 
person.
Now that I have probably offended eve
ryone with an opinion on abortion, Ill tell 
you mine. Personally, I believe life begins at 
conception. From that point on I think that 
the fetus exhibits all the behaviors of a living 
organism and is therefore alive. Not only do 
I think the fetus is alive, I believe it is a 
human being. Since I view killing another 
human being as wrong, I am opposed to 
abortion. However, I do not think that I 
would necessarily oppose abortion in all 
cases. For example, what about the rare 
instance of a mother whose life is threatened 
by her pregancy? In this instance it may 
actually be wrong to force her to carry the 
child. I dont know. I really do not believe 
that abortion is a black-or-white issue. At 
one point I was very adamantly pro-life, but 
my interactions with women who have been 
through abortions have altered my 
perceptions.
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the top of page two, and are the 
official opinion of The Tartan FAitorial Board. Columns are the opinions of individual authors who 
are usually on The Tartan staff, but the opinions are 
not necessarily those of The Tartan Editorial Board.
 Lrtiers to the editor are opinions of individual authors 
who are usually members of the Unniersity commun
ity. A letter intended for publication must be stoned and 
include the wnters address and phone number for 
verification. Names will be withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter.
Ultimately, I think abortion is so 
emotionally-laden a topic because it neces-* 
sarily reflects our personal beliefs about the 
values and meaning of life.
Wendy Scott is a senior majoring in psy
chology and is a columnist for The Tartan. 
TheTart n.
Editor in Chief.......................................Monica GellioManaging Editor..................................Gregg BossierBusiness Manager.............................. Kathy Wasch*News Editor..........................................Pauline WenFeatures Editor..............................Pauline KramerEntertainment Editor.........................Susan PetrieSports Editor..........................................Ric MedrowProduction Manager...............Carolyn SperanzaAd Manager..........................................Bonnie I opfTypesetting Manager.............................Patti CarlisleArt Director...................................Michael SussmanContributing Editor....................Vincent Guinto jAssoc News Editor .... Christopher JohnstonAssistant News Editor.........................Doug BlairAsst Features Editor...........................Don EggertAsst Sports Editor.................Christopher Lewis,AssL Photo Editor . ........................Mike PilewskilAsst- Production Mgr............................Bob Aarhus jAsst Ad Manager..................................Andrew Ghali jClassifieds................................................Tara DieguezjSubscriptions............................................Kelly Doyle 9Business Assistant....................Dana Pottenberg0 jProduction Staff: Peter Bain, Scott Bozic, Neil j Greenblum, Scott Safier, Terri Swartz. _
Copyright  1983 by The Tartan. The Editorial Boai^ reserves the right to withhold from publication an? copy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial Offices Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo 52,1 (412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone. (412) 578-2113. Mailing address. Box 17, Schenlev Park, Pittsburgh PA 15213 j Funded by the Activities Fee.All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

 1October 11, 1983The TartanPage 3
Letters
It's wrong to censor film
"Editor:
I am writing in response to Christian W. 
Hallsteins letter commending the adminis
tration for banning the showing of Deep 
Throat on campus. Mr. Hallstein states that 
censorship preserves our rights; it is the 
protector ... of freedom. I do not know 
what kind of freedom he is referring to but it 
is certainly not the kind of freedom that is 
present in America.
Deep Throat may or may not be filth; that 
% is not the point. What is important is that 
some people may choose to enjoy this type 
of movie, even if it is filth. If Mr. Hallstein 
feels that this movie is malicious I would 
suggest to him that he refrain from seeing it.
We live in America, not Russia, and films 
are not banned because some people find 
them immoral.
Each person is allowed to have different 
or even deviant ideas and beliefs and each 
person is free to practice those beliefs as long 
as they do not infringe upon the rights of 
others. In no way does a showing of any 
movie infringe upon any persons rights. If 
someone does not like any particular movie 
then that person should not go to the movie. 
I respect Mr. Hallsteins right to express his 
opinion; what I do not respect is that he tries 
to make his opinion law for everybody.
Ken Dash
Edi dtoiral.d_ FLO WSadd
Editor:
Yes, I know that the shortest distance 
between two points is a straight line. So why 
do I usually walk the two sidewalk sides of 
the triangle instead of cutting across the 
grass? Well, I think grass looks nice. Dirt 
ruts dont look nice to me. This is the 4th 
season Ive watched as we students return 
from summer to trample a new dirt path 
through the grass which the grounds people 
have labored to restore. Every year the same 
story.
Why not simply pave over the path if its 
used so much? you ask. Aesthetics. I like 
grass. Why not take the extra 10 or 15 
seconds to walk around? This question 
takes on new meaning when I witness peo
ple delicately, and sometimes unsuccess
fully, tiptoe across the same stretch which 
has been turned into a swath of mud. Hon
estly, you dont save that much time. You 
and Pythagoras can figure it out.
The best reason for not cutting across is"American" mourns Watt resignation
By Neil J. Greenblum
Dear James,
Watts up? Are you enjoying your vaca
tion? I hope so. Youve certainly been work
ing hard lately, supporting the American 
way. This is a well-earned vacation, Jim.
What is this Ive heard about 
you resigning? Now come on, 
Jim, you dont want to do that. I 
know that you love being Secre
tary of the Department of the Interior. You 
love the power, almost as much as your 
friend A1 Haig did. You love dealing with 
our large energy problem, no matter what 
the cost. And you love insulting people and 
getting press coverage for it. Now how can 
you give up all these great privileges?
All right, so a few people were upset by 
your Planning Board comment. Im sorry 
you didnt get your way, but accusing the 
Board that it consists of a woman, a black, 
two Jews, and a cripple was incorrect. You 
should have accused those people of being 
honest. Or, you should have accused them 
r)f doing w hat was best for everyone.
You have obviously learned this trait 
from 99% of the politicians you have 
encountered in your political career. The 
American public knows this, but it took a 
chance on people like you and Richard 
Nixon. What was the end result? Nixon lied 
and insulted the public, and he was forced to 
resign. You, Mr Watt, have lied to and 
insulted the public too, and not even Ron
nie is on your side.
As my Strategies for Writing instructor 
'aid, Someone will hire you.
Yours truly, 
A disheartened American
Neil J. Greenblum is a freshman in Hc'SS 
and is a staffwnter for The Tartan.
that there comes a time when we all believe 
we need those extra 15 seconds on the way to 
a class thats already begun, or something of 
the sort. If enough people cooperate then 
there is grass to cut across when you need it. 
Far superior to walking on dirt or mud, and 
it looks nicer too.
Matthew Lewis
Nuclear science deserves equal time
Editor:
As one of a diminishing minority of stu
dents in this country' still involved in the 
rather unpopular field of Nuclear Science, I 
grow tired of seeing the escalating trend in 
the media to report the evils of sciences 
use of the atomic nucleus, while virtually 
denying the fact that positive applications 
do exist. I would not suggest that The Tar
tan is guilty of this, but it has unconsciously 
failed to present opposing view's on this con
troversial subject.
The case in point here is the article 
released in the October 4 issue of The Tartan 
concerning the recent lecture here by antnuclear activist Harvey Wasserman. Albeit, 
this is a valid news item for the CMU com
munity, let us consider for a moment the 
qualifications of Mr. Wasserman to lecture 
on the subject of nuclear pow er; atomic wea
pons, and radiation safety.
His credentials as a journalist and histo
rian most certainly are impressive, but fail to 
qualify him as an expert in the subject of the 
atom. Where is his degree in chemistry, 
physics, or nuclear medicine which would 
indicate to the intelligent listener that he 
was qualified to discuss the physical effects 
of fusing nuclei, or the biological effects of 
gamma particles objectively, without inter
jecting his own two-bit opinions and second 
guesses? To my know ledge, he has no such 
degrees!
To my own way of thinking, it is far better 
to listen to an individual present the facts as 
they stand scientifically, than to listen to an 
opinion lecture for 2 or 3 hours. I would 
therefore suggest that concerned individuals 
take the time to seek out impartial experts in 
die field, who know firsthand what they are 
talking about and can objecuvely discuss 
potendal dangers of the atom, and to ignore 
the uniniuated individuals whose sensauonalistic banterings frighten most of the populus to death.
You may well ask, who are these denizens 
of the night5 These impartial experts? 
Well, in fact, they are all around you. Many 
of them are here, at CMU, in the Nuclear 
Science department, and are very' well-versed 
and respected in their individual fields of 
study. Most members of the department are 
faculty, along with several postdoctoral and 
graduate students, and even a few under
grads, like myself, who actually do know' 
something about the subject.
Another well noted expert in the field of 
nuclear weapons and power is 82-year-old 
Dr. Linus Pauling, who has won two Nobel 
prizes (Chemistry-1954, Peace-1962) and 
many other presdgious scientific awards, 
and is generally acknow ledged as one of the 
greatest scientific minds of the 20th century. 
His Nobel peace prize was given to him for 
his monumental work in raising scientific 
opinion in the late 1950s - early 1960s
against nuclear proliferation.
He was virtually blacklisted by the House 
committee on Un-American activities in the 
early 1950s for his opinions on nuclear wea
pons. His opinions on nuclear usage are 
scientifically based, well-informed; very log
ical, and infinitely valuable to all. Many of 
his speeches on nuclear arms control have 
been published, and can be found in local 
libraries.
Finally, some uses of the atom have 
become beneficial to mans society. Exam
ple: Radiochemical tracers which enable 
doctors to locate defecdve parts of organs, or 
enable chemists to deduce how a chemical 
reaction occurs. Also, note the use of tiny 
radioactive sources in some modem smoke 
detectors, making the home safer by increas
ing the sensitivity of these instruments to 
smoke particles. Peaceful uses of the atom 
like these one finds infrequently in the 
media, and I would like to ask The Tartan 
staff to present some of the favorable views 
on the use of the atom as well as valid, 
objecdve arguments against its use (perhaps 
a reprint of one of Dr. Paulings speeches) by 
noted experts, with the eventual goal of 
allowing the CMU community to form its 
owti logical opinions from good, objecdve 
evidence, rather than forming opinions 
from subjecdve tripe, much like the stories 
we see in the media today.
Jeffrey S. Crain 
Chemistry, 84
Student Senate needs input from you
By Scott Safier
Throughout the course of the year, many 
decisions are made in Warner Hall which 
are in the students best interests -- the IBM 
computer deal and the alcohol policy, to 
. name two. The student input to 
these decisions come from one
body, the Student Senate. However, this organization has 
adopted a reactive philosophy to adminis
tration policy - complain about it after it 
happens. There are several reasons for this; 
the amount of school work the senators 
have, the lack on the part of some adminis
trators to work with students, and the gen
eral apathy of the campus until something 
unwanted occurs. Student Government is 
necessary' to represent the interests of the
student body to the administrauon and the 
trustees, but the current system is ineffecdve.
For the senators to represent the students, 
they have to know' how the student body 
feels. The senate meets every Tuesday night 
at 7 p.m. in the Wherret room (how many of 
you knew that?), and the audience gallery is 
generally empty. It is rare that students 
bring complaints and problems to the 
senate during audience participation, the 
dme the senate allocates to hear students 
during their meedngs. The senators can 
only represent you if they know' how you 
feel.
However, it is also the duty of the senate to 
inform the campus of current proposals. It is 
not enough to hold a tuidon rally after tuidon is set. The senate should inform the
r>d)rj j*>rn tnA 1 /Itubi/ibm slLI or*f
students on the issues as they are under 
debate in Warner Hall, and the student body 
should pay attention. A student senate 
should act as an active liason between the 
administrauon and the students -- listening 
to w'hat the administrauon says and inform
ing the campus, and making suggesdons to 
the administration for the students. They 
should lake the iniuadve and suggest pro
grams and policies to the administradon. If 
all the policies are set by the old mm in 
Warner Hall, the students will have old men 
policies. The senate should send creauve 
and original proposals to Warner Hall -- 
things that students want as suggested by 
students.
Scott Safier is a graduate student in Si PA 
and is a staffwnter for The Tartan.
ml nwo 7>d txin iditMl

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanOctober 11,1983
Study says cocaine use has doubled since 1975
reflection of the growing use of coke among 
the general population, syas IACLEA 
Executive Director James McGovern.
The National Institute on Drug Abuse 
says nearly 29 percent of the 18-25-year-old 
population has used coke, and use of 
cocaine in general has doubled since 1975.
But aside from the growing social accep
tance of coke, its growing presence on cam
puses may also be due to government 
crackdowns on marijuana, which have cut 
pot supplies and pushed up its street price.
Indeed, at the University of Florida an 
ounce of marijuana is going for as much as 
$100 or more, says Gonzalez. With coke 
now selling for $100 a gram, he continues, 
the price of what was once called rich 
mans speed is no longer considered that 
exorbitant.
In the past three years weve arrested 
more students involved in drug traffic than 
anytime Ive been here, says John Skaar of 
the University of Wisconsin Police Dept.
Students frequently get involved in 
(dealing coke) right before the semester 
starts when they come to campus with 
saved up money or with their student loan 
and grant money, he says.
The students invest their savings in coke, 
and can triple their money within a term, 
Skaar says.
But Dennis Martin of the National Asso
ciation of Student Financial Aid Administrators says its rare.
Sure, the time cocaine may be most noticable is when students are coming back on 
campus, he says, but that doesnt mean it 
has anything to do with loan and grant 
money.
However they finance it, many students 
who start using coke recreationally, Gon
zalez says, dont really have the money to 
support continued use of the drug unless 
they start selling.
Consequendy, a network begins to build 
among dealers and users, and the web 
spreads across a campus.
The biggest danger is the tremendous 
amount of violence associated with the 
cocaine scene, he says.
Indeed, Boulder police have had armed 
robberies and people bring guns, threaten
ing people, and pistol whipping them over 
coke deals, says campus police Lt. Dave 
Evans.
Nebraska police have noticed an increase 
in theft and violence on campus along with 
the increase in coke and illegal drug use,' 
says Wehner.
What we are seeing is a very mixed pic
ture, and a situation where cocaine is slowly 
continued on page S
Workshops offered again
(CPS)-------During the summer, 22-yearold University of Colorado journalism stu
dent Sid Wells was found dead in his 
off-campus condominium, shot in the head 
from close range with a shotgun.
The brutal murder frightened a lot of stu
dents, and saddened Wells friends, who 
almost universally reported him as a nice, 
unassuming, smart fellow.
Then came the results of the police inves
tigation: Wells death was probably con
nected to campus cocaine traffic. Boulder 
police have since begun a wider probe into 
student cocaine use at the busding, moun
tainside campus.
Boulder is supposed to be hip. Lincoln, 
Nebraska isnt. But earlier in September, 
University erf Lincoln (UNL) police arrested 
two students, and seized an estimated 
$200,000 worth of coke.
The incidents illustrate that cocaine deal
ing and its related violence are not only 
plaguing some campuses these days, but 
may slowly be filtering onto many cam
puses as the drug of the rich becomes 
more readily available, and the price gap 
between it and marijuana narrows.
While most campus law enforcement 
officers say that cocaine use still isnt as 
widespread or troublesome as drinking or 
marijuana use, more are noticing its pres
ence on campus, and its growing acceptance 
by students.
Theres definitely a growing use of 
cocaine on college campuses, says Gerardo 
Gonzalez, director of the Campus Drug 
Information Center at the University of 
Florida and president of Boost Alcohol Con
sciousness Concerning the Health of Uni
versity Students, a national organization 
which helps students and administrators 
confront drug and alcohol problems on 
campus.
Coke has kind of become the in thing to 
do, he notes. And as the substance 
becomes more socially acceptable, it gets 
more attention. As more people see it 
around, you also see a greater availability, 
and the circle continues.
Boulder police are busting an average of 
25 Colorado students a year for coke posses
sion and sales, says Lt. Jim Fadenrecht, 
compared to two or three cocaine-related 
arrests a few years ago.
The majority (of coke arrests) are related 
to rock concerts on campus, he says, and a 
handful are made in dorms and student 
housing.
Cocaine is becoming a more and more 
common problem on our campus, agrees 
Lt. Joe Wehner of UNL campus security. 
It is no longer unusual to find people sel
ling coke on campus along with other ille
gal narcotics.
Even on campuses where cocaine isnt 
labeled a problem, law enforcement officials 
report it is certainly getting more 
noticeable.
Arrest-wise, we havent seen any big 
increase with cocaine, says Investigator 
Crystal Limerick of the University of Virgi
nia police. But I feel its around, and I am 
constandy surprised that its not a bigger 
problem than it is, she adds.
At Rutgers University, I would say 
(weve seen) a slight increase in cocaine use, 
says campus detective John Janowiak.
I see it as a steady problem right now, but 
not yet an excessive one, says John Carpen
ter, director of public safety at San Diego 
State University and president of the Inter
national Association of Campus Law 
Enforcement Administrators (IACLEA).
While no specific data are available on 
coke use among college students, my gut 
reaction is that the problem on campus is a
By HOLLY BIERTEMPFEL
Tartan Staffwriter
Effective Study Skills is just one of three 
workshops being offered by the Counseling 
and Student Development Center, begin
ning October 19. Organized by Dr. Lome 
Rabin, acting director of the center, the 
workshops will be taught by the CMU 
counseling staff, and are free to CMU stu
dents, staff members, and faculty. A mix of 
ages and backgrounds in the workshops is 
good as the participants can leam a lot from 
each other, says Dr. Rabin.
This is the third year for the workshops, 
according to Dr. Rabin, and this years pro
gram will consist of the most popular work
shops from previous years.
Workshops offered include Managing 
Stress, which will teach stress-intervention 
techniques to help manage college pres
sures; Effective Study Skills, which teaches 
the development of effective study habits 
through such topics as time management 
and exam preparation; and Confidence in 
Communication: Assertive Social Skills, 
which teaches effectiveness in such areas as 
communication, listening, and handling 
criticism.
Anyone interested in participating in the
workshops can register at the Counseling 
Center, located in the Student Health Cen- | 
ter, Morewood D-Tower, or by calling C 
x2922. Deadline for registration is Monday*, ft 
October 17.Tuck-ins to 
aid children I
The Great Tuck-In II, sponsored by A 
Phi O, brought in a total of $270.75. The 1 
proceeds will go to benefit Childrens Hos- 1 
pital in Oakland.
A total of 120 people were tucked in, as^ 
compared to 54 last year. The tuck-ins were J 
held from 11 p.m. to 1 a.m. Monday 1 
through Thursday, September 26 to 29. jj 
55 women and 65 men received tuck-ins. This 5 
year stuffed animals were added to the tuck-in 1 
options. 47 tuckees received stuffed animals |
Joe Guarino, chairman of the Great I 
Tuck-In committee, was pleased by the 1 
turnout. 1
Its lots of hard work to prepare but its I 
one community service/volunteer project .* 
that ultimately leads to a lot of fun,'H Ii P
commented.
/IKR7IRVED'\ CL ASS RINGS INC
Now when you buy any ArtCarved 
college ring, you not only get one 
ring loaded with style and quality, you 
get two. A great college ringand a 
diamond fashion ring, FREE Its a 
beauty10K gold with a genuine 2 
point diamond Retail value$60. 
The perfect way to express yourself, 
your style, or your feelings for that 
special someone Available exclu
sively from your ArtCarved Repre
sentative for a limited time only
Wed, Thun, Fri
Qct 12> 114 Timp 10 am - 4 pm Plarp 
jposit required MasterCard or Visa Accepted
Baker Hall Lobby
ved Class Rings
HELP YOUR QPA TAKE OFF!
FreeWALK-IN TUTORING SERVICE
Beginning Sept. 19, 1983 
Every Mon., Tues., Wed., Thurs.
7 p.m. - 10 p.m.
WRITING CALCULUS CHEMISTRY 
PHYSICS H&SS MATH
Baker 229B 
Porter 225B 
Porter 226A 
Porter 226B 
Porter 226C
Sponsored by Counseling and Student Development Center 
Division of Student Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

October 11,1983The TartanPage 5
Congress may cut more student aid programs
(CPS)  Congress may soon cut some 
student aid programs after all in the lastminute political struggles over .setting the 
new federal education budget for the fiscal 
year to start October 1st.
In the last few weeks, House of Represen
tatives committees have cut money out of 
virtually all student aid programs. 
Although the full House restored some of 
the money, its most recent version still is less 
than the student aid budget it passed provi
sionally last June. y
Senate committees working on the stu
dent aid budget also make cuts, though they 
were less dramatic than the Houses.
Its a very strange political situation, 
says Kathy Ozer, lobbyist for the U.S. Stu
dent Association in Washington, D.C. We
Rush ends; 235 pledge fraternities
continued from page 1
Andrew Pivacek, Lanee Sadler, Mark 
Sladik, Carl Sutton, Pete Visconti.
PI LAMBDA PHI: (12) Rich Barstow, Bob 
Button, Matt Corliss, Ed Demaar, Chris 
Dudas, Luke Graham, Greg LaRue, Sung 
Lee, John Long, Sean McKinley, Andrew 
Murphy, Gregg Rentko.
SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON: (24) Pete 
Accord, Scott Bozia, Rick Bruce, Marcel 
Carter, Peter Cooper, Mike Coughlin, Vito 
Cortese, John Dukovich, Nick Fergis, Luis 
Fuertes, Paul Goldenberg, Aris Green, Ken 
Gregg, John Henigin, Doug Hunter, Keith 
Johnson, Charlie Law, Jim McGaffin, 
Mark Misico, Steve Onaids, Matt Pollack, 
Matt Pritchard, Bryan Quay, Mark Shapiro.
SIGMA NU: (12) Alan Agulnick, Dan
Bernstein, Tom Bove, John Fox, Jack 
Glacken, Dave Jamroga, Alex Jesurum 
Jerry Kassman, Scott Kinard, Ted Miracco, 
Tim Yeh, Barrie Slaymaker.
THETA XI: (42) Nick Ahlstrand, Jeff 
Allen, Drew Anderman, Rob Arnold, Mike 
Becker, Jerry Bell, Marc Bolan, Vince 
Carozza, Rob Cohen, Allen Cobell, Joe 
Daley, Jim Denburg, Rob Detiger, Paul 
DiMarco, Steve Dreskin, Steve Duffy, Don 
George, Tom Hartman, Phil Hollenburg, 
Reid Horovitz, Ron Howard, Tom Hughes, 
Tom Jantos, Charlie Johnson, Bruce 
Kagan, Greg Kelly, Bob Kim, Todd Kovach, 
Dave Kasuma, Kent Larson, Jon Leach, 
Warren Lehew, Dan Lewis, Rob Marko
vich, Dave Skriloff, Jerry Stahlecker, Wil
liam Van der Vorm, Mike Wade, Carl 
Weakland, Edward Weatherly, Dave Whitesell, Jeff Zehner.
ZETA BETA TAU: (22) Larry Bach, Sangrev Bahdley, Bruce Barney, Jonathan Brelsford, David Corkrin, Paul Drate, Kevin 
Farrell, Drew Fuhrman, Mike Horsinger, 
Andy Lee, Alec Lowry, Doug Lubliner, Eric 
Schaffer, John Sedor, Tom Tramplo, Rich 
Weinstein, Craig Welsh, Scott Woodliff, 
John Zarsky, George Turner, George 
Brewster, and David Fonzi.
have a Democratic House coming out with 
lower figures than a Republican Senate.
According to Ozer, the lower version in 
the House  which normally adds money 
to education programs  springs from 
White House pressure on William Natcher 
(D-Ky), who heads the House subcommittee 
that appropriates money for college 
programs.
The full Houses budget^ however,is still 
lower than the spending ceilings both the 
House and Senate agreed upon in June.
But as the figures now stand, Ozer says all 
the federal programs  Pell Grants, Gua
ranteed Student Loans, State Student Incendve Grants, NDSLs, Trio and College 
Work-Study  will suffer during the 1984- 
85 academic year, when this budget would 
take effect on campuses.
Coke becoming more common
continued from page 4 association.
becoming less of a white, upper-middle class A lot of campus law enforcement officials,
drug, says Dan Keller, public safety director he adds, are holding their breath and 
at the University of Louisville and head of a wondering if cocaine is making its first 
na don wide campus crime prevention inroads at their schools.
FELLOWSHIPS
Since 1949, more than 4,500 men and women have 
earned advanced degrees in engineering and science 
with the help of Hughes fellowships. The Hughes 
commitment to furthering your education and your 
career.
More than 100 new fellowships will be available in 
the coming year for graduate study in.
Engineering (Electrical, Mechanical,
Systems, Aeronautical)
Computer Science 
Applied Math 
Physics
As a Hughes fellow, you could be studying for your 
Master's, Engineer, or PhD degree while receiving: 
TUItlon, books, and fees 
Educational stipend 
Full employee benefits 
Professional-level salary 
Summer employment 
Technical experience 
Total Value: $1t00 to $40#00 a year.
Youll also have the opportunity to gain valuable 
on-the-job experience at Hughes facilities in Southern 
California and Arizona while youre completing your 
degree.
Work Study Fellows work part-time during the 
academic year while studying at a nearby university. Full 
Study Fellows work in the summer and study full-time.
And since Hughes is involved with more than 90 
technologies, a wide range of technical assignments is 
available. In fact, an Engineering Rotation Program is 
available for those interested in diversifying their work 
experience.
If youd like assistance from a company committed 
to advancing the frontiers of technology, fill out and mail 
the coupon below. Or write to:
Hughes Aircraft Company
Corporate Fellowship Office
Dept. NC, Bldg. C2/B168
P.O. Box 1042, El Segundo, CA 90245
Proof of U S Citizenship Required Equal Opportunity EmployerTHE COMMITMENT BEHIND THE PROGRAM
Hughes Alrcrsft Company, Corporate Fellowship Office, Dept. NC, 
Bldg. C2/B168, P.O. Box 1042, El Segundo, CA 90245.
Please consider me a candidate for a Hughes Fellowship and send me the 
necessary information and application materials.
Creating a neu world with electronics
HUGHES
i_____________________________i
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY
PLEASE PRINT: Name
AddressDate
City
I am interested in obtaining a
State 
Masters.
Zip
Engineer degreeDoctorate
in the field of: ____________________________
DEGREES NOW HELD (OR EXPECTED)
Bachelors: Date ---------------------------------
Master's: Date____________------------------Field
FieldSchool
School
WRITE YOURSELF IN

---------------------------------------------------

Hill Street 
Homecoming
October 14 and 15
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14
Afternoon
. . . On the cut
3:30 pm  6:30 pm  George Gee and his Make-Believe Ballroom Orchestra, arranged by UFO.
 WRCT coverage.
 Star Party by the Astronomy Club.
 Refreshments by A Phi 0.
 Flower Sale by Student Corporation.
 Volleyball.
 Scotch fN Soda.
3:30 pm  4:30 pm  Sky-diving (IM field).
5:00 pm  Karate Club Demonstration.
Evening
9:00 pm Torchlight Parade, Bonfire, and Pep Rally
. . . Morewood Gardens to the IM field,
Join the "Hill Street Blues cast, Kiltie Band, cheerleaders, alumni, and your fellow students in front
of Morewood Gardens and march to the IM field for the bonfire and pep rally.
10:00 pm Fireworks
. . . Tech Stadium
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 15
11:00 am  1:30 pm Alumni-Student Ox-Roast Luncheon
. . . On the Cut
contract or validine accepted.
2:00 pm CMU vs. Washington and Jefferson
. . . Tech Stadium
Join the "Hill Street Blues cast in cheering the Tartan team on to victory, Halftime will include a 
performance by the Kiltie Band and the crowning of Mr. and Miss Varsity.
7:30 pm Scott Jones Coffeehouse
. . . Highlander Room
9:00 pm AB Dance
. . . Ballroom
with B.E. Taylor and Night Owl
T-Shirts available at the bookstore_ or on the Cut during 
Homecoming 
eLuisLutFW bn mIatSxiSdLFd aSic
fOipiF gLsIsL yv1is5Otpi 0SLo5siS_ etll fOSiiO gl5idA
gaSRaSa gLddLF yDa^A
mIaSlid eato yhiF.LA
gS5si ,itO& ygil.iSA

---------------------------------------------------

fFeatures.
Former Tartan editor in Washington
Computer raider testifies.. after granted immunity
By ALICE ALFONSI
Tartan Washington Correspondent
Washington  The subject of telecomminications security and privacy  compu
ter crime  reared its ugly head on Capitol 
Hill last week when a House Subcommittee 
held its first hearing on how to control crim
inal use of computers.
According to Rep. Dan Glickman of Kan
sas, chairman erf the subcommittee on 
Transportation, Aviation and Materials, 
this hearing and two upcoming ones in 
October are meant to focus national atten
tion on the problems of computer crime.
Neal Patrick, a 17-year-old computer 
Robin Hood who broke into computers all 
over the country, testified that penetrating 
those systems was something just about 
anybody could have done.
Patrick, anned with nothing more than a 
home computer and a basic instruction 
course, joined a group of six young men like 
him in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The group, 
calling themselves the 414 gang, made a 
game of breaking security systems and man
aged to penetrate the Los Alamos National 
Laboratory, the Sloan-Kettering Cancer 
Center in New York, and the Security 
Pacific National Bank in Los Angeles until 
they were caught by the FBI.
Members of the subcommittee com
mended Patrick, who had been granted 
immunity, for testifying. Panel members 
said the actions of Patrick and his gang 
illustrate the need for proper federal legisla
tion addressing computer crime.
According to Patrick, one of the ways he 
was able to penetrate the systems was by 
using a standard password that comes with 
new computers. When system operators 
fail to change the password right away, the 
system is vulnerable. By simply typing 
test or demo, Patrick was able to gain 
entry.
Since the break-in at Los Alamos nuclear 
weapons laboratory, the director has 
required tighter controls on computer secur
ity, including more obscure passwords.
Jim McClary, Division Leader of Opera
tional Security and Safeguards at Los Ala
mos, testified that although the youths were 
able to break into the unclassified part of the 
computer, a further link-up to the more sen
sitive information would have been techni
cally impossible by an outsider.
A situation like the movie War Games, in 
which a youth tampers with the North 
American Air Defense Command computer 
and comes close to launching missiles,
would be unlikely, according to McClary.
But Glickman presented about four min
utes of the film at the hearing and noted that 
the film does illustrate certain break-in 
methods that are factual.
Panel members including Rep. Bill Nel
son of Florida and Rep. Ron Wyden of 
Oregon, who both have legislation on com
puter crime pending, asked witnesses how 
Congress could help stop computer abuses.
The consensus was that the public should 
be educated on ethical issues as well as prac
tical strategies for preventing crime. Donn 
Parker, author of many computer crime 
books, testified, .i. the problem is primarcontinued on page 8
John Modell, social historian, joins CMU
By SUSAN PETRIE
Tartan Entertainment Editor
After many months of searching for a suit
able person to fill a vacancy in CMUs his
tory department, the history faculty this 
semester has added John Modell, a social 
historian whose work involves not only the 
study of family formation, but of women 
drivers, too.
Schooled at Columbia University and 
University of Pennsylvania, Modell could 
be considered one of todays trend-setters in 
historical research method circles, dealing 
mostly with quantitative methods rather 
than traditional qualitative work. In fact, 
this native New Yorker has experienced his
tory to almost all its boundaries, having a 
background in demography and political 
history, a taste for social science, and identifi
cation as an urban historian.
Upon an invitation to join the CMU 
faculty, Modell left his professorial position 
at University of Minnesota, where he also 
taught history. He enjoys the focus in 
(CMUs) department, encompassing 
urban studies in addition to the programatic way the department tends to imple
ment its ideas in education.
Presently Modell is concentrating on a 
soaal history project dealing with family 
formation. Modells research usually 
includes a great deal of survey analysis; this 
time is no different. For example, Modell is
using data accumulated in the Kinsey report 
for a segment on dating. The historian feels 
his strength is dealing with data and is 
usually anxious to find themes through
out his research.
Unconventional topics are also a very real 
part of Modells studies. This project has 
also entailed studying trends in petting, 
which seems very silly in a sense, he says. 
In a serious way, it makes (people) pay
attention to the way things have changed. 
Other topics of his current project include 
the timing of marriage and the relation of 
marriage to first childbirth. Studying the 
latter topic during the time of the 1950s 
baby boom could prove quite informative 
to Americans today, he points out, depend
ing on the amount of change found in atti
tudes then and now. Different historians 
have different kinds of imagination,
photo by Bob Fishel
JOHN MODELL
Modell explains.
Ideology has an impact on the behavior 
of people, says Modell, and thus his interest 
in studying recent social history is 
explained. To him, social history' serves a 
humanistic purpose; it exists to persuade 
people living in the present that change is 
possible.
Modell, who considers himself some
what of a feminist, has also delved into the 
subject of women drivers and claims that his 
lecture on this subject ranks as one of his 
best. One of his research sources for the lec
ture was registration records. A couple of 
themes he found while researching were 
that women drive shorter distances than 
men do and that women were also less likely 
than men to own cars. He mentions that 
these differences are narrowing with time, 
however.
Despite the intriguing freshness of the 
type of research John Modell does, quantita
tive methods research is not the fad, he 
admits. According to him, history is basi
cally a conservative field, but the latest trend 
is in linguistics analysis. Modell thinks that 
CMU is altering its emphasis and is eager 
to explore new facets of history. This depart
ment seems to know what it wants to do, 
says Modell. He likes the community  the 
feeling the department offers, and the tact 
that everyone is interested in one another. 
The quality of this department is quite 
good.
v00_ ewff dO5oiFOd i1autFi asto SatF oixLdtO uiOILod
By GREG CAMPBELL
Tartan Staffwriter
On Thursday afternoon in the Adamson 
Wing of Baker Hall a group of graduate 
students spoke to an advisory panel about a 
project they were working on called Pen
nsylvanias Acid Deposition Strategies. The 
group, which is made up of EPP and H&SS 
students, is investigating what effect pro
posed acid rain legislations will have on
Pennsylvania.
Hie main target of the project is the coal 
industry and its applicable legislation. Coal 
gives off tremendous amounts erf sulfur 
dioxide when it is burned, and this sulfur 
dioxide is a main ingredient of acid rain.
The group will examine proposed legislations 
which call for varying degrees of sulfur 
dioxide reduction. They will assess these 
proposals and try to determine which will 
be most beneficial for Pennsylvania.
The groups will examine the technical, 
environmental, and economic aspects of 
each proposal. Technically, they will look 
at various coal-cleaning methods and see 
which ones are the most practical. One 
problem they face is that some proposals 
require large reductions which current 
cleaning methods cannot handle. So the 
groups must also examine cleaning 
methods which are still being developed.
Environmentally, they must consider 
what effect each proposal will have on Pen
nsylvanias humans and wildlife. If the 
amount of sulfur dioxide is reduced will 
damaged lakes and streams come back to 
life? And if the amount of sulfur dioxide is 
allowed to continue to grow, will Pensylvanias crops and forest lands be damaged? 
Will our health be affected? The group must 
also consider the value of the environment 
as compared to the economy.
lhe economic aspects of the proposed 
legislation may be the most important, espe
cially here in Western Pensylvania where 
coal is a big industry. If companies are 
forced to add expensive cleaning equipment
to their burners, how will they' pay for it? 
Will electric companies raise our rates to pay 
for the work? Will they have to cut 
employees pay or lay off workers to meet the 
expenses? Or will they simply be forced to 
shut down because there is no way they can 
afford it?
The group has many questions to answer; 
it is an enormous task which they are under
taking. And they are doing it all in one 
semester. There will be another presentation 
on November 1, and the final one will be on 
December 8. As one panel member com
mented after the presentation, No one has 
come up with a solution yet. I wish you 
luck.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanOctober 11,1983
Go take a leap: CMU skydh/ers would love to
By NANCY ADELSTEIN
Tartan StaffwriterWould you voluntarily leap out of a plane at a height of 2800 feet? Here at CMU, there are many students .eagerly awaiting their first jump.The Skydiving Club, chartered last spring, is getting ready for an eventful fall. Dependent on the weather, the club has set no specific dates, but has held many meetings where they have discussed training sessions, costs, and even emotions involved during the jump.Before their first jump, participants must take a six hour training course where they leam everything about skydiving. The jump masters go over every safety factor and every' malfunction that could occur. These essions make the realization of possible danger more evident.The divers practice every move over and over again. Using the P.L.F., a parachute landing formation, they jump off a four foot platform so to acquire a sense of landing. Sondra Elson, an active member of the club, says that by the time students leave training, theyre saying, let me jump out of a
plane already. The first jump costs approximately eighty-five dollars which includes payment of training, equipment, and flight. However, after that, each jump costs less money. This is due to the cost-reducing progression from a static line  where the parachute is attached to the plane  to a free fall where the diver has control over the parachutes release.
'According to Elson, the sport of skydiving is quite addictive, and the feeling of a jump, which lasts only about three and a half minutes, is pretty wild. Elson explained how vulnerable and yet in complete control she felt: It was like being a marionette and pulling your own strings.The club is sponsoring a demonstration jump this Friday on the IM field at 3:30. Club president Bill Warkany or Elson
(x4523) will field any questions; so, if youre not going home this Homecoming weekend, keep your eyes on the sky.
Computer
criminal
testifies
continued from page 7
ily a people problem, and the solutions must be a combination of both technical and human controls.Parker also suggested that Congress appoint a National Commission on Information Crime and establish laws which protect information resources in the same way as laws which protect physical resources.The two major bills pending on computer crime are quite different in nature.Nelsons legislation is a hard-line criminal enforcement of computer misuse. The bill has been in Committee for three and a half years, but says Nelson, now it is ready to move.If passed, the bill would mandate a fine of up to $50,000 or a five-year jail sentence for robbing or abusing federal or private computers used in interstate commerce.
Wydens bill, on the other hand, addresses the problem from another angle. Wyden says the problems stem not so much from lack of enforcement laws, but from lack of - educational laws. No matter how many laws we pass, said Wyden last week, we cant prevent computer crime.Wydens bill, the Small Business Computer Crime Prevention Act, would set up an 18-month task force to investigate the extent of computer crime in small business.Among the witnesses who testified was Geoffrey S. Goodfellow, an employee of the Computer Science Laboratory at SRI International in Menlo Park, California.Goodfellow, co-author of the Hackers 
Dictionary: A Guide to the World of Compu
ter Wizards, got to his position with no degrees or any type of equivalency. After being introduced to computers in seventh grade, Goodfellow was hooked. He was permitted to hang out at the Stanford facilty which housed the computer system serving his school.Soon, Goodfellow acquired his own computer on which he enjoyed breaking into a time-sharing computer firms system. The firm found him out and offered Goodfellow a summer job. The job led toothers, and he dropped out of high school as a result.
Alice Alfonsi, a professional and creative 
writing major at CMU (84), is a former Tartan editor-in-chief and presently complet
ing a semester-long internship at American 
Univeristy. The text of Patricks testimony will 
appear in next weeks Tartan.

 allegheny 
reproductive 
health 
center
abortion 
menstrual extraction
free pregnancy testing vd and contraceptive care
all services confidential
121 s. highland ave., 
Pittsburgh 
363-1107
courtesy of Skydiving dub 
Members of the new Skydiving Club are anxiously awaiting their first jump.
4523 Centre at Craig
621-6755 ^
Hours: Mon.  Thurs. 5:00 p.m.  1:00 a.m.  .
Fri. & Sat. 5:00 p.m. - 2:00 a.m. Sunday
PIZZA v.
5:00 p.m.  12 midnight
FREE Delivery
Round Thin CrustRound Thick CrustAll Hoagies Toasted HotCALZONES
EXTRASLarge
12 Cuts
Med.
8 Cuts
Small
4 Cuts
Med. Pan 
8 Cuts
Small Pan
4 CutsHOAGIESWHOLI1/2EXTRASMad.Small
PLAIN4.713.632.214.532.91HOT SAUSAGE3.961.98REG.4.713.63
1 Topping5.914.532.915.433.61ITALIAN3.961.9815.914.53
2 Toppings7.115.433.616.334.31VEGETARIAN3.961.9827.115.43
3 Topping8.316 334.317.235.01PIZZA SUt3.581.7938.316.33
4 Tappings9.517.235.018.135.71STEAK3961 9849.517.23
E veryttnng10.718.135.719.036.41MEAT BALL3.961.98PLUS TAX
EXTRAS Pepperom, Sausage, Mushroom. Onions, Green
HI I IV I Kl S I KM I ( I) IN ( I K I AIN 4KI AS IMMM .II MAIM f KISM I  MI V ON I III I'KI MISI SNO PKl KAKI SHI Ili I Si I) Wl ( I SIMM M AM I V  K S PI/ / ' V III f At .II 111 N Ut l<IIkINi.
NO MINIMUM 
ORDER 
REQUIRED
fOR FRIE DELIVERY
, Mot Peepers. Anchovies. X-Cheese
4 \i /u\LS K I < .1 I \K i 4 t-xlra-) ( UM I S WITH 11 \M > \ t AMI,I t ! I r.f )\l I HL F SE \ SAI H L UK
VOI ( \\ ( KI Ait 
> Ul K OWN
* All Deliveries Start At Time Of Opening
* Most Deliveries Within 45 Minutes of Order Under Normal Service Conditions
* 10 % Discount With College Student I.D. Card On All Pickup Orders Only
* Absolutely No Personal Checks On Deliveries Or Pickup Orders
* Open for Lunch Monday Thru Friday At 11:00 A.M.
T
I
Store Coupon
$1.50 OFF
Dot/very Coupon
$1.00 OFF c |
Any order ever $5.00 I Any order over $5.00
Must acknowledge when placing order to be valid I Must acknowledge when placing order to be valid.
One coupon per order One coupon per order.
Good on deliveries only. Good in store only.
Expires October 19 ^ Expires October 19__l

---------------------------------------------------

October 11,1983The TartanPage 9
. HOWARD ^JownsonJ
WHERE DO YOU 
SEND VISITORS?
ROTC cadets find survival isn't all bad
* By DON EGGERT
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
McConnels Mill State Park is usually 
quiet on fall weekends. But it was filled 
with activity the weekend of September 24 and 25, as ROTC cadets from CMU, Duquesne, and Pitt participated in a field training exercise (FTX).
Although the main purpose of the exercise was to show freshmen and sophomores 
various survival techniques, cadets from all grade levels were involved. The seniors, who were supervised by ROTC leaders from the three universities, were responsible for the 
control and administration of the exercise. They also offered guidance to anyone with 
questions.The juniors who participated in the exercise assisted in the survival training of the freshmen and sophomores. In addition, they participated in a night land navigation exercise. Their main goal was to gain experience working together before they attend the ROTC Advanced Camp next summer.It was the freshmen and sophomores, though, who got the most out of the FTX. Contrary to the belief of outsiders, they did not have to face a strict routine or discipline.
Although the exercise was somewhat structured, many of them had a good time.After arriving at the park and getting some basic equipment, they set out for the rappelling slopes. Since few of them had ever rappelled before, most were uneasy. But after they gained their confidence by trying it once or twice, the more daring individuals tried the expert slope. Living up to its name, the expert slope proved to be a more accurate test of the cadets new-found skill.After rappelling, the freshmen and sophomores tried their hand at travelling over various obstacles on different rope bridges. Then they watched three demonstrations designed to supplement their classroom learning: how to set traps and snares, how to build fires without matches, and how to skin small animals (rabbits in particular).As the day ended, the cadets returned to the camp for dinner and discussion of the days activities. Freshman Doug Zaenger summed up his experience, saying, The ROTC weekend gave me a better, though far from complete, idea about what ROTC has to offer. That seemed to be the general feeling of the new cadets, as their first field exercise in ROTC came to a close.ROTC cadets rappelled their way down sheer rock faces like these.
A picture is worth 1000 words (and $500)
One picture may be worth a thousand words, but it is also worth $500 to the winner of the seventh annual Natural World Photography Competition and Exhibition, which begins on November 29,1983, and is open to both professional and amateur photographers nationwide. Entries for the competition (which is sponsored by Carnegie Museum of Natural History and The Darkroom Incorporated) will be accepted until December 9, 1983.Designed to promote excellence in the fine art of photography as well as to create a greater awareness and appreciation of the natural world, the contest was originally restricted to the tri-state region of Pennsylva
nia, Ohio, and West Virginia. But since its inception in 1977 (due largely to the generous support of the Leonard S. Mudge Environmental Education Program), it has expanded both in numbers and prestige. Today it is a national competition seeking entries from serious photographers from coast to coast, awarding a total of $1,300 in prizes.Besides the $500 grand prize, $250 will be awarded to a winner in each of the two categories (color and black-and-white), and $100 will go to those selected for Honorable Mention. In addition to the cash awards, the winning photos will be showcased in the Carnegie Museum of Natural History
Gallery from February 12 through April 29, 1984, and will also be published in Carnegie 
Magazine, the bimonthly publication of Carnegie Institute.Contestants are invited to submit up to a total of six prints in any combination of the two categories. All entries must be the artist's original prints and may not have been published previously. Judging will be performed by a panel of experts known for their
sensitivity to and involvement with photography.
To obtain an entry form and contest rules, photographers may contact the Section of Education, Carnegie Museum of Natural History, 4400 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15213 or call (412) 622-3283. Entry forms may also be obtained at the museums Visitor Center or at The Darkroom, downtown.
Custom Designed Hairstylesthat only look expensive!
Our professional stylists know that to custom cut your hair the way you want, they must listen to what you want That's why at Great Expectations you'll leau? with the style you had in mind . . at a price you can afford SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
PRECISION NO PERMS FOR
HAIRCUT APPOINTMENT AIT. STYLES
'ANY LENGTH) $25.00
$12.00(W ASH-Cxrr-RLOW-STYLE)
COLOR
Moo., TW, Wed. 1*7 257 Attwood Smct
Thun., Fri. 10-9 07-3811 Aaom the ml fatn
S* M NO APPOINTMENTS OMmd tom Off
UNISEX HAM SALON
photo by Carolyn Speranza
The above photo is one of the proposals created in a new art class, 3-D Interart Student Borris 
Bally sketched a parachute (right) to cap the tower of Hammerschlag Hall (left).
Howard Johnsons Motor Lodge 
in Oakland 
WeVe Changed" 
SEEING IS BELIEVING!
STOP IN AND VISIT OR CALL WED LOVE TO SHOW YOU AROUND
683-6100
3401 Blvd. of Allies Pittsburgh 15213

---------------------------------------------------

Campus Organizations
The Senate Rules Committee 
is conducting its annual
Organizational Survey
All funded and non-funded organizations must complete the 
form and return it to the Rules Committee Mailbox (Skibo Info 
Desk) by
Tuesday, October 25, 1983 
5:00 pm
Failure to do so jeopardizes your status as a recognized organ
ization and may result in freezing of funds (if youre funded).
Forms are available at the 
Skibo Information Desk
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
New film "Zelig" proves 
Allen's real, comic genius
It is the rare performer who is so closely identified with his instrument that he has quite literally defined its role in contemporary music. Jazz rock musician Jean-Lut Ponty, playing the Stanley Theatre, October 15 at 8 p.m., enjoys such a rare association with the violin. Besides performing, he has gone on to establish himself as a brilliant composer, producer, and arranger as well. Tickets for the Jean-Luc Ponty show are on sale now at the Stanley box office.__________________________________________________________________________Homecoming visit
MiHill Street" alumni at CMU
 Five CMU drama department alumni who work on NBCs award-winning Hill Street Blues will return to campus as honorary chairpersons for Homecoming, October 14 to 16.The five are: Steven Bochco, executive producer and co-creator of the series; Barbara Bosson, who plays Fay Furillo; Mark Frost, executive story editor; Charles Haid, who is Andy Renko; and Bruce Weitz, who plays Mick Belker.Bochco will arrive early to teach courses to actors, directors and playwrights in CMUs drama department on October 13.The quintet will gather for a drama department luncheon, hosted by President Cyert, at noon, Friday, October 14 in the Faculty Lounge of the College of Fine Arts. That afternoon, they will meet with play- writing students, then all drama department Si'j^nts at 2:30 p.m. in Kresge Theater. 
They will join other alumni for the alumni awards banquet at 7 p.m. in kiuu Hall.Saturday, the group will attend an oxNew band
Catchy tunes
Bv ADAM HANIN
Tartan StajjxvfJi^Passion Beat, the new ln^le bY Portable People, is the kind of song that has a poiH^ beat. Af ter you hear it once, you carry it with you, and soon find yourself singing it to yourself time after time. Perhaps it is the driving back-beat, maybe it is the running bass- line; it could even be the voice of vocalist Phil Platten. But most probably, its the fresh new sound that Portable People has produced.Although only a little over ten months ld, the band has already managed to release a single which is sure to be a hit in dance (lubs and on college radio stations. In fact, ai cording to Platten (who is also the groups bass player), these are the areas the band is aiming for.Platten formed Portable People (after his Ust K*aup,Simitrnki iljshandrd) with guitaroast at noon and parddpate in the Homecoming parade. Bochco and Bosson, who are married, will crown Mr. and Miss Varsity at halftime of the CMU-Washington and Jefferson football game at 2 p.m. That evening, the group will join other alumni at a dinner dance at 8 p.m. at the William Penn Hotel.
The age of Rameau will come to life October 13 and 21 in CFA. In celebration of the 300th anniversary of the birth of Jean- Philippe Rameau, the departments of architecture, drama and music will present two lecture-concerts devoted to the music, dance and architecture of eighteenth century France.Organized by architectural historian Richard Cleary of CMUs architecture depart!!^* and musicologist Barbara Coey- man and related to CleaT/ S course The Age of the Rococo, the evenings will attenipi,
carry People
rist/keyboardist/vocalist Rick Reynolds (who had previously been with Parker Brother.) After enlisting drummer Steve Stevenson, the trio set out to create a new,u, .   Woul  sound that would keep peo-nign-c nv,P>/i i .  a tune or twopie moving while givingto hum.In performance, Portable People plays nearly all original material, and are pies- endy working-in new songs with catchy ddes like Guerilla Limbo. Platten says that the band tries to make their shows visually entertaining as well as musically. Unfortunately for us here at CMU, Portable People will not be nearby for a while, but Passion 
Beat can still be heard occasionally on WRCT. You can also get a copy of Passion 
Beat (with die flip-song Its For You which is also quite good) at Jims Records, the Record Graveyard, or Heads Together. In the future, look for a possible F.P. from 
PxutibiiL'.Peupk*.................................................
By LEE BROWNSTON
Tartan StaffivriterWoody Allens new movie, Zelig, has finally reached Pittsburgh after having a limited run for the past two months, and it was well worth the wait. After a series of disappoindng films, Allen has rediscovered his gift for intellectual comedy -- saurical, parodis- dc, and allusive. He has also regained his generosity and sweetness of tone which were so sadly missing in the 
ill-tempered Stardust Memories and the unconvincingly bawdy A Midsummer 
Nights Sex Comedy. Yet this long-awaited homecoming is not at the expense of depth. 
Zelig, rather than marking a return to his earlier naive, slapdash methods, is at least as mature and thoughtful as Annie Hall, and more dazzlingly inventive stylistically than any of his earlier films.As in his early Take the Money and Run Allen has adopted the framework of a documentary, except this time he pulls out all the stops. Set in the period from 1928 to 1934, the film is shot in black and white so that the actors appear, through the use of editing, doubles, and stardingly convincing special effects, to mingle with celebrities such as Babe Ruth, Jack Dempsey, Josephine Baker, and Adolf Hider. Similarly, the soundtrack is engineered to sound like recordings from the twenties.The illusion that Zelig was pieced together from documentary footage is all but overwhelming. There are also contemporary interviews, shot in color, with actors playing fictional characters and, as in Reds, with actual commentators - notably the Jewish intellectuals Susan Sontag, Irving Howe, Saul Bellow, and Bruno Bettelheim. (Unlike Reds, these witnesses are identified, but not so soon that we are denied the
;-v**
according to Cleary', to convey a sense of the texture of the time by reintegrating the human element into the architecture and the music of the age.
The Court Dance Company of New York City, under the direction of Charles Garth, will perform along with the Pittsburgh Early Music Group at 8 p.m., this Thursday in Kresge Theater in CFA. The program will include excerpts from Rameaus divertissement Les Surprises de lAmour and Jean-Baptiste Lullys Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme/
The Eighteen-Century Ensemble will perform at 8 p.m., Friday, October 21 in
pleasure of identifying them ourselves.) Much of Woody Allens humor, both in film and in his writings, has depended on sophisticated name-dropping, and Zelig shows himself indulging more than ever before.
The story is very much like a psychoanalytic Elephant Man. Allen plays Leonard Zelig, a man with so weak a character that he physically transforms himself so as to blend into his social environment: depending on who he is with, he turns into aristocrat, proletarian, athlete, gangster, psychiatrist, rabbi, Nazi, or aviator; he even turns obese, black, Chinese, French, Indian, and Greek. He becomes an instant celebrity and a curiosity, the occasion for a great deal of tasteless popular culture such as songs, dances, jokes, and artifacts. Like the Elephant Man, this human chameleon is plucked from pathological environment, nurtured toward normality by a saintly doctor, suffers a dreadful setback, but in the end returns to those who love him. The story is roomy enough to accomodate both social satire and reflections on the personality! of modem man.
Of the two, the satire is more successful. In addition to the sharp attack on popular culture (which is supported by Irving Howes comments), Allen scores points against journalism, psychiatry, assertiveness training, and the notion of celebrity. That Leonard Zelig, once so famous, is today totally forgotten is evidence of the fickleness of the masses, the triviality of a society that lurches inexorably from one trend to another. As Bruno Bettelheim remarks in the movie, everyone displays to some degree what Leonard Zelig shows in extreme form: Zelig is simply the ultimate conformist.
continued on page 12
Alumni Concert Hall. The group, which will present both vocal and instrumental works, includes Nelva TeBrake, Baroque violin, Charles Brewer, harpsichord, Kate Young, soprano, and Barhara Coeyman, viola de gamba.
The dance and musical performances duplicate the authentic style, costume and musical instruments of the period. The musicians, in fact, will use the original eighteenth century musical notation.
The lecture-concerts and workshops are open to the public without charge. For further information, contact Liz Fox atx2353.
Fine Arts celebrates age of Rameau

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanOctober 11, 1983
After reaching top Fastway is back to mediocrity
By LESLEY BRUNKER
Tartan StaffivritrrPerhaps worse than being outstandingly bad is being outstandingly mediocre. It is especially difficult to see a band with proven talent performing in the average category, P especially when they could/potentially be top rate. Asia is a blatant example, and their second album, Alpha, is more revoltingly formula radio rock than their first.The newest member of this unfortunate middling group is Fastway. Much of their trouble is reflected by their personnel file. Fast Eddie Clarke: Fastway seems to be a preoccupation to him, something to do after he and Lemmy of Motorhead decided they could endure one another no longer. Pete Way: mad man bassist from UFO, Pete has a habit of doing whatever sounds good at the moment - evidendy, the band stopped sounding good to him because he went his own crazy way before the album was completed.Jem Shirley: veteran drummer known best for his work with Humble Pie but more iecendy for his individual albums with solo artists (inducing Syd Barrett, Sammy Hagar and B B King), his presence alone lends a transient atmosphere to the band. Da\id King: lone rookie, a flaming redheaded Irishman who is all of 21 years old; he has a strong voice and promising future as a singer/lyricist.There are other indications that the band is not meant to be a permanent entity, foremost of which is the lack of experimentation  characteristic of debut albums but not evident on Fastway. They seemed to know exactly what they wanted to do and did it. This goes back to the fact the band is threequarters established musicians who know what works for them and are less interested in searching for their musical identities as are many young bands.
All this is not to say the album is not good. In fact, some of the material shows the potential this band has to become something noteworthy if they choose. In Another Day, Clarke adds a nice touch with an acoustic guitar leadin, making Kings voice stand out next to the quiet accompaniment. The song shifts to high gear, featuring some heavy guitar, a new vocal style and some of the best lyrics on the album.
Heft! and W7e Become One are also impressive. Heft! is musically simple but intense and heavy, and very effective. The vocals are superbly mixed  in fact, Eddie Kramer did a good job engineering and producing the entire album  and the guitar solo is what youd expect from Fast Eddie Clarke. We Become One is an excellent anthem, with a strong beat and an interesting lyrical theme: Strangled like their chords /With masks and chains they sell in vain /Yes, to please, the falling hoards.'The three single releases, Say What You Will, Easy Living and Feel Me, Touch Me (Do Anything You Want) are good songs, as is the blues-rock number Far Far From Home (an A-side only single that was packaged with the album shortly after its release), though not quite up to the par set by the previously mentioned three. The remaining tracks are moderate.
So where lies the future of Fastway? Richard McCracken, who played in Taste with Rory Gallagher through the seventies, has been touring with the band on the bass, and will hopefully lend some permanence
SHAKE 
YOUR
a record sale! Get down fast 
get your favorite albums for 
.98 and up.dTop Artists 4 Major labels 4 Hundreds of selections - pop to classic 
Stereo LP Albums 
Cassettes/Box Sets
uct. 10 to Oct. 21
Would you like up to $15.00 worth of records and/or cassettes free? 
Get down to the bookstore now and register during special record sales.
emu bookstoreto the crew. Dave King has been causing quite a sensation in Great Britain, and his work shows so much talent potential it is understandable. If Jerry Shirley hangs around and Fast Eddie doesnt go back for another round of Motorheadbanging with Lemmy (though Brian Robertson, Clarkes replacement, has worked out well enough that Clarkes return is unlikely), Fastway could feasibly enter rocks upper echelon.Short Topics: Remember NWOBHM (New Wave of British Heavy Metal), the lauded rebirth of dinosaur-rock through the infusion of hard core/new wave? The ostentatious tag was pinned to just about every' metal band bom in the late 1970s.Actually, NWOBHM was a misnomer, an idea that was surely appealing but had little substance. Those who want to hear a genuine case of good heavy metal influ
enced by new wave, check out Aldo Nova. *After spending some time in Europe and particularly in Germany as a bassist, he released his first solo album, Aldo Nova, on which he introduced a unique rock sound with interesting traces of modem, new- wave thinking. He provided almost all of the instrumentals as well as all vocals, play, ing guitars, most of the keyboards (except piano on one song), and a good bit of the bass.If his new single, Monkey on Your Back is typical of the material on his new album, Subject, be looking for an even heavier rock with his new-wave touch. Monkey on Your Back, which is about heroin addiction, features a powerful prelude that casts an appropriate atmosphere for the song. Be looking for a review of Subject upon its availability.
Allen's "Zelig" excellent for 
psychological storyline
continued from page 11
.As a story of a psychological malady and its cure, the movie is hardly different from so many of its predecessors (Spellbound, The 
Cobweb, Captain Newman, MD, The 
Three Faces of Eve, The Seventh Veil, etc.). Mia Farrow plays Dr. Eudora Fletcher, the psychiatrist who cures Zelig with her genius, determination, and love. It turns out that Zelig was so eager to please, to blend in with the crowd, that he did so by relinquishing any personality of his own. By building up his self-esteem, showing that others have the same problems, and loving him for what he is and not for how well he lives up to external demands, Dr. Fletcher returns him to normal. Ho-hum. At least its better than 
The Conformist, in which Bertolucci blames the pathological desire to conform on repressed homosexual tendencies.
This is an auteurs film, notable for its story and its mise en scene. True to its documentary' format, the film is a collection of stills and snippets of action, most without dialogue. With the exception of a jarringly private shot of Dr. Fletcher pensively staring out a window, the documentary mask never slips, keeping the characters at a distance. There is little room for the actors to stmt their stuff or even to create a character - the voice-over narration takes care of that. The closest thing to acting in the movie must be Dr. Fletchers filmed sessionS-Vmn ZeTig n 
the w'hl room. To use psychoanalytic terminology, here we see Dr. Fletcher triumphing over Zeligs resistance, and the development of transference. (In English, he
abandons his stubborn refusal to admit that he has a problem, and he falls in love with his therapist.) The intimacy of these scenes make them stand out strikingly.Leonard Zeligs problems and progress mirror those of his creator. Woody Allen, dissatisfied with comedy, aspired to be a serious filmmaker so as to be taken seriously. Love and Death was his last pure comedy; starting with Annie Hall
and Manhattan he started reaching for psychological depth. After making a series of unsuccessful and poorly-received films which were frankly imitative of others (Ingmar Bergman in Interiors and A Mid
summer Nights Sex Comedy, Federico Fellini in Stardust Memories), Allen has not only regained his true voice, but he has also achieved his goal of making films that are more than collections of jokes. Let us hope that he is confident enough in his gifts to^ continue making films which are both thoughtful reflections on the human condition and at the same time the funniest comedies being made.
Since this film is only about 75 minutes long, the Squirrel Hill theater has padded the program with a couple of cute shorts and a Tex Avery cartoon. (For those who dont know who Tex Avep; js aix>ut time voM out He has a delightfully
malicious sense of humor that Chuck Jones, of Road Runner fame, cannot evenJ approach.) Thats a lot entertainment for your money. And dont forget that admission is $2.00 on Mondays and Tuesdays.
The Duquesne University Union Program Board
presents
tue author of 
How to Make Love to a Woman
Michael Morgenstern 
A Return to Romance
Duquesne University 
Union Ballroom 
Monday, Oct. 17
8 p.m.
Tickets:
$1.50 with Student I.D. 
f 2.50 without Student I.D.
ATtilable at:
Duquesne Union Information Center 
For more information call 434 6619ONION
IM0N PVOCVAM BOAK)

---------------------------------------------------

October 11,1983The TartanPage 13
Cabaret not 
bad for local 
production
By PETER BAIN
Tartan StaffivriterIve been to the Cabaret, my friend. The 
Company Cabaret, that is  last Saturday 
night at Froggys downtown. The second 
floor of the Market St. establishment was complete with Steelers oil paintjtSr ings, lush carpeting, Tiffany
jgr lamps, a stage and an enthusiastic group of performers. While the audience would have appreciated bar service and more tables given the seating, the live performance they saw had both the strengths and weaknesses of any production. The show had its truly vibrant moments of gay abandon, but it also had those dead spaces that a comic dreads and anactor perseveres through. The evening was pleasant but unfortunately never quite resolutely satisfying.
The revue began with a feisty answer to What is Cabaret? The emcee warmed up the audience by mangling the continental tongues and the chorus showed how much sinful fun they were having with more than one or two inviting glances. The necessary accompaniment was provided by a piano, violin and clarinet. The young group, crowded on stage, received a strong response and the audience was set to kick back.The second act was introduced and a man stepped out. Youngish, polyester sport- shirted, balding with black-rimmed glasses and chubby, he was billed as a comedian. Neither the baldness, his hit-or-miss jokes, nor their sometimes hesitant delivery made up for the problem of visual impression. The few boo-ers in the audience were almost respectful towards the lack of humor in front of them. There were a few who enjoyed the barrage, but they had already decided to have a good time  regardless of the show.The concept of Death coming into a bar has almost limitless possibilities. Some of these were explored in Death Depressed. A very feminine Grim Reaper proceeded about her business. The choice of multicolored lights and mid-montage asides clouded an otherwise successful sketch.Next were a solo number and something 
else. The folksy piano ballad was an excellpn f chnwrocp for-fir OIUIIClOUi Chorus member Karen Sullivan, a CMU drama graduate. Gregg Bossier and Sharon Porter represented CMU. The something else was a mime robot dance. This act was the last Wore intermission.The Cabaret resumed after the almost capacity crowd of fifty or so made a leisurely
Gang CM Four, playing at the Stanley Showcase October 18 at 8 p.m., was founded in Leeds in 1977, and is now in its third incarnation, 
trimmed down to a trio with founding members Andrew Gill and Jon King and long-time bass-playing cohort Sara Lee (formerly of Robert 
Fripps League of Gentlemen.) The groups fourth album for Warner Brothers Records is titled Hard and was recorded in Montreal, New 
York and Miami.
trip to the bar. Stage lights went up on emcee Bob Snodgrass, who set the stage for a female trios rendition of Bottom of the Stairs. Musically solid, Sullivan (as the lead) and two other chorus members were not convincing despite their movements.
Appearing third was Gregg Bossiers lament to his unsympathetic wife. The direction, which consisted of getting up and walking around, robbed the song of real emotion. Still, the Cabaret kept moving with its equivalent of the fan dance. Saturdays offering was a serpent dance by the lithe Sullivan. Male chorus members spread out a carpet and hit the drums. It was too bad that she spend most of her time doing it on the floor, because beyond the first few rows, craning necks went unrewarded.The other half of the audience was brought back by a delightful musical parody. Third-rate double entendres, the worlds worst puns and engaging stage play got everyone laughing. The Old West was never like what we saw nor was Gone with 
the Wind(ows).
The tinale came up quickly. Standing with their backs turned, the chorus appeared forced until they got back to the business of enjoying^ themselves. Concluding with introductions, the stage went dark.
The Company Cabaret is directed and choreographed by Myron Nadel, a professor in drama at CMU. It is a wholesnr^~ ciiort,
but does not complete the combination of fine talent and polished material. Admission is a steep seven dollars for the first show and even more for a slightly extended late
show. Slated to be new each week, the Cabaret may well improve, but at these prices and in current form it will have to be for the conventioneers and patrons erf Froggys.
Silly Wizard brings 
Scotland to the Arcade
By MONICA J. CELLIO
Tartan Editor-in-ChicfA new minister had just come to the parish of Dunkeld, said Silly Wizards lead singer Andy Stewart. A fire-and-brimstone guy, and he outlawed drinking and music in the parish. Now, the Scots could/make do without the music, but the drinking was too much. They really gave it their best, but a week later they decided to do something about it.They sent a group of people to talk to him  the biggest men in the parish. When he refused to concede, they hung him. After this they decided to celebrate bui uif Only 
place big enough to hold everyone was.. .the church.^ The Parish of Dunkeld, describing the festivities of a typical Scottish parish, was one of Silly Wizards more popular songs last Tuesday at the Arcade Theater. The group enthusiastically performed  Vaiietv of Scottish-*"- traditional and contem
porary', for the crowd.
The Arcade Theater is not large, but it was crowded. The theater is small enough to allow' for a friendly, intimate setting, and members of the band spent time between songs talking to the audience and relating the history erf their music. One expected Ste- wart to step down from the stage and start wandering through the audience.The group performed roughly equal amounts of instrumental and vocal pieces. Phil Cunningham was superb with the accordian, particularly during a solo near the end of the show. He also managed to play both the accordian and the tin whisde at the same time.
' In addition to tun songs like The Parish of Dunkeld and Rambling Rover, Silly Wizard also performed beautiful love songs like The Valley of Strathmore" and If I were a Blackbird. They provided the audience with a nice mix, and the audienr~'~ 
reaction is he insured by the standing ovation, high record sales, and the typical comment I heard on the way out: Damned fine group.
Panther Hollow Inn 
4611 Forbes Ave.
Featuring
xh lb. hamburgers, Hoagies & sandwichesNOW OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEKKitchen open Monday - Friday .... 11 am - Midnight Sat. & Sun............................1 pm - 7pm
Bar open until 2 cun every night
 FREE PREGNANCY TESTING
OaklandRm. 212, 3520 Forbes Ave. 
Downtown3rd floor, 107 6th St.
 ABORTION SERVICES
 BIRTH CONTROL & GYNE CARE
For Your WHS SURVIVAL KIT, Fill Out & Mail Coupon To: 
Women's Health Services, 107 6th St., Pittsburgh. PA 15222 
Telephone: (412) 562-1900
WHS Survival Kit
Name  ________________---------------*--------
Street  .............................---------------- ------
City ______________State_________Zip
College (if student) _________---------------Mail to: WHS. 107 6th St., Pittsburgh. PA 15222
Women's Health Services

---------------------------------------------------

Xiang in there. If you can get through all the hard work while putting up with all the distractions, f(Q u |f 
ill be readv for anything. Including graduation. What's more, you U have a real education.i Aw i* >sk?T send vour name and address to Free Poster. Dept C.PO Box 1166 Pitt 4>urgh. PA 15230 < Gulf Oil Corporation - 1963

---------------------------------------------------

tage of the breaks.something to say about the
photo by John Rogers
October 11,1983The TartanPage 15Sports.
Tartans maintain number one rankingCMU "Plaid Curtain" swamps Gators
photo by John Rogers
Senior captain NT Joe Nardone chats about game for WPXI feature story, shown last night
By NEIL GREENBLUM
Tartan Sports Editor and Tartan Staffwriter
A football game between a number one 
football team and an undefeated opponent. 
The stands are packed. Some of the fans 
have painted their faces. The cameras of 
ABC-TV zoom in on the pivotal game.The setting is not a classic Pitt-Penn State game or even a USC-UCLA game, scene describes the beginning of the Tartan obliteration of the previously undefeated Allegheny Gators.Skoal player of the game Jim Morrison 
tore up 36 yards in the first CMU series. Allegheny forced a Dave Zito fumble, and it 
looked like the Gators were going to be 
tough.Allegheny moved the ball 19 yards in six plays, a strong drive considering the Tartan
defense.The Tartans then started playing a game of breaks, taking advantage of every advantage. After the Go team moved the ball 54 yards, they were forced to go for the field goal by the psyched Gator defense. However, the Gators made the mistake of roughing CMU kicker Rob Fleischman, giving the Tartans the first down. CMU capitalized, scoring on a Brad Huwar dive.On the next CMU drive, the Gators forced another Tartan fumble but failed to make it pay. Kevin Baird, Allegheny punter and analyst, commented, "we didnt take advanBy SEAN QUINN
Tartan StaffwriterThis was a week of disappointment and of preparation for the CMU field hockey team. The disappointment came during Wednesdays 2-1 loss at Bethany. Although Laura Ciarallo scored again, the loss put the Tartans into a tie with Bethany for first place in the Penn wood West Conference. But, with two must-win conference games ahead, the Tartans are preparing for a probable one-game playoff with Bethany for the conference tide.The first conference game was held Friday at Tech Field against Washington and Jefferson. The Tartans took the first half lead with a goal from Lynne Otto  CMU- 1, W&J-O. The second half was frustrating for the offense. They controlled the ball but failed to score. Finally, the CMU defense, who played "superbly according to Coach Joan Maser, gave up a goal with only four minutes remaining in regulation time  tie score, 1-1.
dont get the breaks, but we havent taken advantage of the ones we have gotten. Allegheny tailback Bob Murray added, A lack of intensity made us self-destruct. Weve just make mistakes that have killed our drives.Gator linebacker Vince Creswell also hadsame subject,
Overtime. It was all CMU. Hie Tartan offense continued to apply the pressure until, finally, the ball went in. Amy Robbins diving shot eluded the goalie. The remainder of the overtime failed to produce a goal  CMU wins 2-1.Maser w'as pleased with the outcome but was disappointed about needing overtime since the team played the next morning. She continues to use plenty of substitutions and adds, We have mosdy first and second year players out there, and that even though they are still relatively unfamiliar with each other, they play well together. They hustle, Maser indicated, which can only lead to playing better together, and to victories.Finally, the Tartans hosted a Division II team, Indiana University of Pennsylvania Saturday morning. The exhausted Tartans and Maser treated the game as a scrimmage by using plenty of substitutions and by trying to play up to Indianas level. The result was a 7-0 loss, but, for the Tartans, an exceptional practice game.
"We didnt play up to our capabilities. I think that says it all.Leading only 14-0, defensive coach Don Poluszek made the decision to put the 
second string detense m the game in only the second quarter. Many along the sidelines questioned the wisdom of such a precarious decision.However, Poluszeks son, offensive tackle Cameron, backed up his father, He rotates 22 good defensive people. It keeps the kids fresh.The citics were silenced by the defensive performance, going into the locker room at half time shutting down Allegheny, 14-0.Tartan fans at Alleghenys Robertson Field and those watching the game on ABC- TV worried about a second half letdown. What they got was quite different. The offense was to score 21 more points, and the defense was about to perform the incredible denying the Gator offense even one first down.Wingbacks Gerard Vasalani and Brad Huwar and Go quarterback Joe Mollica were the men that scored the second half touchdowns. The rushers chewed up Allegheny for 353 yards, and the Tartans managed 419 total yards. However, the key to the potent CMU offense lies in their plaid curtain.Morrison, who ran 116 yards, exclaims, The story' of the game was the offensive line  thats about it. Without the way the offensive line played, we would not have scored
any points.Mollica agreed, It was the offensive line. We cant score without them.
ABCs Steve Ballou, whose job it is to pick up the sounds from the line of scrimmage with a parabolic microphone, also credited the Tartan Plaid, saying, Theyre really good inside, especially the two guards. They make my job a lot easier.Incidentally, the starting Tartan offensive line is made up of guards Dan Gercak and Robert Cortazzo, tackles Joe Glinka and Ross Jicomelli, center John Herold, and tight end Harley Carroll.
The coaching staff and team intelligence also played a major part in the 35-0 slaughter. According to the analysis of the Gators, CMU was not that physically impressive but used teamwork and smarts to beat Allegheny.Injured Allegheny starting quarterback Chris Brodman admitted, Theyre (CMU) like a machine. Their quarterbacks and the rest of the team are not that good. They just play so well together.Murray concurred, Their defense reads real well, but they' dont hit that hard. Saturdays Tartan win should not simply be lumped into the Zile of accumulating CMU victories. Allegheny was an undefeated and well-respected team.Morrison imparted, They played well against us. They were throwing a lot of defensive changes at us at just the right times. If it werent for that, we may have scored one or two more (touchdowns) depending on the circumstances.The story of the Tartan trouncing may be best summed up in the disparity between fan reactions to the game.
The sister erf guard Robert Cortazzo cheered, Were the best, and were going to go all the way this year!CMU junior Chris Dinnin claimed that, Our offense is unstoppable, and our defense is unbeatable.Mrs. John Herold boasted, the team thats rated number one just proved that theyre super  especially the center John Herold. Mrs Herold is the mother of center John Herold.However, on the other side of the field, the tone was quite different. Allegheny sophomore Gail Merton laments, Its a shame that we are being crushed like this on television, and I just wish wed get on the board. The fans just shouldnt leave the team, even when the score is 35-0.And finally, nine-year-old ball boy Kevin Wolf exclaimed, they dont stink, but theyre losing.
photo by John
CMU defense managed to hold #3 PAC runner Bob Murray to just 28 yards.
Defensive back Andy Janies garners one of four CMU interceptions Saturday.Tartans must win 
to force showdown

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanOctober 11,1983
Coach feels #1 ranking presumptuousKlausing's Tartans reach top of the nation
photo by John Rogers
Skoal player of the game Jim Morrison evades yet another tackier as Dave Richards prepares 
to block upfield.CMU garners respect
By MARIA RIVAS
Tartan StaffwriterGo Heineken! yelled the Volleyball team as they went on to crush both Fayette (15-1, 15-3) and McKeesport (15-2, 15-4) at home last Thursday.Contrary to the last home games, the Tartans played with such momentum that even Laura Frissora, the team manager, commented, Its nice to see the girls working their butts off. What form!It is surprising that CMU volleyball is
doing as well as it is, considering that the team has lost five players: Dana Rinehart, Amy Lingelbach, and Maria Rivas due to school work and Linda Marcoux and Karen Kinetz to knee injuries.The team is a young one  having three freshmen, four sophomores, and one junior. Communication and rhythm need work. The team has to work on its transition when going back between defense and offense, said Coach Jane Fisk, 
continued on page 21
CABARET 
CALL FOR 
TALENT
RESIDENT STUDENTS MAY PICK UP APPLICATIONS TO PERFORM AT THE HOUSINGOFFICE
FOR FURTHER INFORMAT CONTACT BECKY FIGURA 
IN THE HOUSING OFFICE AT x2139
By RIC MEDROW
Tartan Sports EditorWe may surprise a few people. Thats what Tartan head coach Chuck Klausing said of CMU over one month ago. Back then the Tartans were picked by a poll of coaches and media to finish fourth in the Presidents Athletic Conference. Five victories later, CMU is ranked first in the nation in Division III by the NCAA. Yet Klausing claims, We always have surprises left in store. Actually, the Tartans are tied for first nationally with Augustana II, with 56 voting points.By the way, Augustana beat Carthage, 28-7 on Saturday.The Tartans have outscored their opponents 169-22 and outgained foes by an average of 393.8 yards to 228 yards.However, Klausing is modest as usual. I dont really know that we deserve it. We havent done anything other than win five games. Klausing contends, I dont think they can say someones number one unless theyve played everyone.Klausing also questions how advantageous it is to be picked first this early in the season. Stressing that he would prefer to be first at the end of the season, Klausing explained, Its a little bit of a burden to carry number one.-Look at how well they (Allegheny) performed today. But we endured the pressure well.The important issue then becomes whether or not the Tartans can maintain the number one position to become national campions. Klausing remains conservative.
NCAA Division in
National Rankings
PTS
1.CMU56
2.Augustana, IL563.Wisconsin-Lacrosse534.Hofstra, NY515.Wartburg, IA38
6.Salisbury State, MD377.St Johns, NY34
8.Mt. Union, OH309.Case Western, OH28
10.Union, NY25
11.Millsaps, MS23
12.Elmhurst, IL1613.Whittier, CA1514.Lycoming, PA615.Swarthmore, PA416.Wisconsin-River Falls4
Right now we have a 50-50 chance in each game. Weve got to stay free of injuries and keep improving. We cant keep still, replies Klausing. If we have an aweful lot of luck and just win games we will be national champions. But right now who know if we should be number one or number four (in the PAC). They (the pre-season poll) still might be right.However, Gary Drakulic, who played tight end when the Tartans last won the PAC in 1979, prophesized, As long as they continue to improve, and the two offensive teams stay together like they have been, theyll go all the way.
CMU wins despite loss
By DAVE LAFYATIS
Tartan StaffwriterThe streak goes on. Four more Cross Country teams tried to break the incredible 44-meet streak that Gary Meckleys harriers had compiled. Certainly this group, which included two Division I schools (Robert Morris and Duquesne) and one postgraduate runners club (Jeanette Harriers) along with Division III Grove City would be expected to provide some stiff competition for the Tartans. When the final results were tabulated, however, all that showed up was another resounding series of CMU victories, with the closest competitor (Jeanette) safely beind by 15 points.The meet, which was scheduled for 12:15, began about 20 minutes late because of a big high school invitational which took place prior to the race. Running on their home course at Schenley Park, the Tartans took charge from the start, with Mike Short and John Wessels moving to the front of the pack. These two All-Americans led the race the entire way, and finished tied for the top spot with a 5 mile time of 25:48. Following
two Jeanette runners was Chris Shafer in fifth place. Rounding out tne scoring for CMU were Kevin Brewer in eighth place and Mark Sulecki in ninth place.We ran a real hard week of workouts, and the boys looked real tired during the race, commented Coach Meckley. I was 1 pleased with Mike and John, but would - liked to have had some more depth right behind them. Also, we rested three of our top runners (Thom Bell, Bob Dusch, and John McGowan). Next week Im planning on running the full team. The Tartans next meet will be the Fairmont State Invitational which takes place Saturday.With the winning streak still intact at 48, and this years record standing at 11-0, the Tartans are gaining quite a reputation. As one of the members of the Jeanette contingent left, he shook hands with Coach Meckley and remarked, See you next year, Coach. At least you wont have Short and Wessels then. But for the remainder of this year, the Tartans do have their two All- Americans, along with an impressive supporting cast.
IM participation falls
By SEAN QUINN
Tartan StaffwriterI dont understand the drop in participation, stated Instramural Director Earl Bir- dy. His concern arises from the fact that there has been a significant drop in partici- natinn in IVI artivifiec The dror> not onlv
ACommissioners must be
nebtdeadlines for team volleyball, soccer, bowling, racquetball, and team table tennis have been set back to this Thursday, October 31 at 4:30 p.m.Not all the sports are w aiting to get underway, though. Play-off schedules for touch 
football, tennis, and co-rec volleyball will be
posted on the bulletin board.Due to Homecoming, Birdy has postponed major league football on Friday, October 14.The cross-country run will be tomorrow at 4:30 on Flagstaff Hill and is in need of volunteers to help the rummers cross the
stresses Birdy.Afi important safety factor lias been adt lot to the water polo program. All water polo 
teams must have a certified life guard on 
duty during all practices and during all matches. The team lifeguard must have a copy of his or her card on file in the Athletic Office. Teams are not to use the pool unless the lifeguards card is on file.

---------------------------------------------------

October 11, 1983The TartanPage 17
. %Tartan experts proclaim Series
Wheeze Kids 
look young
By RIC MEDROW
Tartan Sports Editor
Offense  If it was purely offense that decided World Series, my Phillies wouldnt be able lo compete with the Orioles. The Philadelphia lineup is not nearly as strong as it appears at first glance. Granted, Mike Schmidt had 40 homeruns and 109 rbi in a bad year. However, once past Schmitty the Phils dont have a player who hit over 16 home runs, and they did not have a regular who hit over .265.The one advantage they may have is a recent tear. Morgan raised his average almost thirty points in September, finally producing as he promised from the start of 83. Rose hit only .245 and had 79 fewer hits than the 200 
the normally produces. However, Pete looked rten years younger in the playoffs and can only rise higher to the challenge of the series. Lezcano hit .239 over the season, but as a Phillie in September, Sixto has ripped well over .300. DeJesus is a well-known offensive defect, but with men in scoring position Ivan lead the Phils. Finally, the normally solid, consistent Matthews dipped below .280 probably for the first time in his career. Even so, the Sarge carried Philadelphia through the playoffs and should carry his torrid streak all the way to Baltimore.Defense  If there were a better defensive team than the Phillies in baseball, it would be Baltimore. But, even the Orioles pall when matched against Philadelphia. Five of the eight Philadelphia regulars have won Gold Gloves, and if Larry Bowa, Ozzie Smith, and Gary Carter were not in the NL, the Phillies would have seven veteran Gold Glovers. Schmidt and DeJesus provide sparkling defense on the left side of the in- _ field, and Pete Rose, although he may not be .as quick or sparkling as Eddie Murray, is as solid a fielder as there is, even at 42 years old. Morgan has had concentration problems all year, but should regain some of his old form now that his bat has come to life, and he is feeling better.The outfield defense is also flawless. Maddox can still compare to Joe DiMaggio in center, and Lezcanos arm will be outlawed if Congress ever passes a gun control law. Matthews has taken a hard rap over the years about his fielding. However, U19 hard
working Sarge has smoothed his fielding to be better than competent.
PhilliesMedrowGreenblumOrioles
Pete RoseBBIB Eddie Murray
Joe MorganPB2B Rich Dauer
Ivan DejesusBBSS Cal Ripkin, Jr.
Mike SchmidtpP3B Todd Cruz
Gary MatthewspBLF John Lowenstein/ 
Gary Roenicke
Garry MaddoxpPCF A1 Bumbry
Sixto Lezcano/pPRF Ken Singleton
Joe Lefebvre
Bo Diazp
Phils in 6
B
Orioles in 7
C Rick Dempsey
As I mentioned earlier, Diaz would have a Gold Glove if Gary Carter werent so good. And the pick-off moves of Carlton and Denny make Diaz the more effective behind the plate.
Starters  The Phils lack the depth on the mound that Baltimore has. However, two better starters than Carlton and Denny do not exist. Between the two, the Phils have the NL Cy Young winner for potentially the last three years. Also, the Phils would not be where they are without Hudson and Gross. Hudson ended with a 3.35 ERA and 16 decisions  not bad for a rookie. In fact Hudson was two outs away from being one of the only rookies in history to pitch a no-hitter. Gross is also a clutch-type pitcher. He had a minor league ERA over 7.00 and a losing record. It only stands to reason that Gross will pitch in top form if he is needed in the series. The Phillies will hope to get by without a lot of starting depth. In a short series, you usually can.
Bullpen  If starting depth is unnecessary to a short series, a strong bullpen is imperative. Tug McGraw was the best reliever in Dasebaii going into the 1^80 series, and he was the key to the Phillies Championship. Right now, the best reliever in baseball is A1 Mr. T. Holland. After Holland, the Phils have Reeds 95 mph fastball and Hernandez hard slider. If all else fails Larry Andersen and 1980 sensation Marty Bystrom wait in the wings. The drama of McGraws finishes will be missed, but Holland will do his best to add almost as much color.
Bench  With the bench the Phillies have, they could easily create a whole contending starting line-up. First base  Tony Perez, Second base  Juan Samuel, Shortstop  Kiko Garcia, Third base  Joe Lefebvre, Right field  Greg Gross, Center field  Bob Dernier, Left field  Von Hayes, and
Catcher Ozzie Virgil. -Power is available from Perez, Hayes, Virgil, and Samuel. Gross, Lefebvre, and Garcia can always get on. And Samuel, Lefebvre, Dernier, and Hayes make the fastest bench ever assembled.
Intangibles  Philadelphia has nine players that have gone to at least one World Series, three players who have gone to at least three, and one who has gone to at least four World Series. Rose and Morgan are currently playing like blood hounds who have caught a whiff of the familiar scene of victory. Throughout the season, Philadelphia has been berated as the Wheeze Kids. But, an interesting combination of youth and age got them to the Series. Now the hunger of the youngsters and the leadership of the Veterans will be the final ingredient of victory in the Phillie recipe.Management juggled the roster and lineup more than any other team in baseball this year. The result was inconsistency up until September, but the constant revisions finally produced the best Phillie ream ever assembled.
O's pitch 
as champs
NEIL GREENBLUM
Tartan Stnffwritcr
Offense  In my opinion, the American 
League is the better hitting league, and Bal
timore follows this rule. Eddie Murphy 
enjoyed another fine year, hitting .306 with 
33 homeruns and 111 runs batted in, placing 
himself among the leagues leaders in 
almost every offensive category.
With the exception of the Milwaukee 
Brewers Cedi Cooper, there may be no finer 
first baseman in the AL. Sophomore short
stop Cal Ripken, Jr. had a superb season, 
hitting .318 (6th best in the league) with 27 
homers. Ripken also led the AL in at-bats, 
runs scored, hits, and doubles. Together, 
Ripken and Murray form the most impres
sive 3-4 hitting combination in the majors.
The hitting is solid surrounding this duo. 
Seasoned veterans like Ken Singleton, A1 
Bumbry, John Lowenstein. Gary Roenicke, 
Rich Dauer, and Dan Ford, provide consist
ent punch. Singleton, Lowenstein, 
Roenicke, and newly-acquired Tito Lan
drum add the annual Baltimore power 
element.
The Orioles have never been known for 
their team speed, but Bumbry, Landrum, 
and rookie John Shelby are always a threat 
on the basepaths.
Baltimore hit a tough Chicago pitching 
staff pretty well in the AL playoffs, and there 
is no reason to believe it shouldn't continue 
against Philadelphia.
Defense  In the past, the Orioles have 
continued on page 21
Each year, thousands of women die before the age of 35 because of cardiovascular disease.
Think of all theyll miss.
Please give generously to the American Heart Association, f. 
WERE FIGHTING FOR YOUR LIFE .
ATTENTION
CMU
Its time for buggy once againlFall free rolls will be held on 
the following Sundays from
6 am  9 am:
October 16 & 30 
November 6 & 13
As in previous years, they 
will run through Schenley 
Park on Tech and Frew 
Streets. For further 
information, call Anne 
Witchner at 57S-2107.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanOctober 11, 1983
out junior year as a wide receiver and moved to tight end soon after.Harley Carroll agrees with his teammates reactions to the White Team  Go Team controversy. We all thought twice at first about the coachs decision. But theyre both performing the same. As long as we keep wining, why change? Its good to win.
run well. Joe too. They almost complement each other. In fact, the two units (the White and the Go) complement each other.Besides the change in the offensive formation, the implementation of two offensive units has changed Harleys involvement. White team member Carroll shares time with senior Phil Wise, Go team tight end.
? ON THE I
BIG SCREEN! I
MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL!
-WEDNESDAY NIGHT IS DYNASTY NIGHT!
-MTV AFTER 2 PM
*12 HFTH AVENUE OAKLANO i1-3100 I
W\ ?ALL THE
VI SPAGHETTI 
/YOU CAN EAT!
C4QQ SATURDAY  * & SUNDAY
* PIZZA*PASTA*SALAD SPAGHETTI*BEER*WINE 
> ?WE DEUVER!OAKLAND AREAV 5500 MINIMUM
Coupons rxptrp 10/31 ________
photo by John Rogers
Harley Carroll (87) concentrates on yet another Tartan victory.
88.3 FM WRCT
is now on the air everyday from 6 AM to at 
least 3 AM, so tune in your alarm clock radios 
to 88.3 FM and start your day off right 
Specials this week:
SouNdchEck with Madness, Tues. Oct. Nth at 
8:30 PM
The CoUeqe Concert Seres featuring Marshall 
Crenshaw, Wed. Oct. 12th at 5:30 PM 
NE\vswEEk FM featuring conversations with Bob 
and Doug McKenzie, Tears for Fears, and others, 
Fri. Oct. 14th at noon
w15 OFF , ANY SANDWICH
EXPRES9-3083EXPfCS30*3
75e 0FF i
A WHOLE 
PAN PIZZA
Carroll likes to winAll-American struggles with
By NEIL J. GREENBLUM
Tartan StaffwriterJunior tight end Harley Carroll was chosen Honorable Mention Associated Press (AP) All-America, Pittsburgh Post- Gazette All-District, and First Team All- Presidents Athletic Conference last year. This year, Carroll has caught just one pass.It doesnt bother me. Were winning. The offense is catered to its players. We have six good running backs, so we dont need to pass, replied the 6'4", 200-pound Wheeling, West Virginia native.Last seasons statistics certainly wouldnt bother anyone, Carroll had 24 receptions for
387 yards, second best on the team, for an average of 16.1 yards per catch. He also had two touchdowns. He comments about last season. I was happy with it. It was nice to be used, because in high school I was never really utilized. I didnt deserve to be All- America. I got it because they saw 24 catches, which is a lot for a tight end.Last year, behind the arm of All- American quarterback Bill Kiselick, the Tartans threw often and successfully. With an abundance of steady running backs, Coach Chuck Klausing has changed to the wing-T in 1983. In order for this run-oriented offense to work, the blocking of the offensive
line must be very steady. Blocking is not Carrolls forte. Last year it (my blocking) wasnt good. The game is a lot funner when you can block well. The coaches have been teaching me, and my blocking is getting better.
The combination of Bill Kiselick and Harley Carroll was a very successful one, and Carroll learned a great deal about Kisel- icks talent. The Humanities and Social Sciences student compares Kiselick to this years quarterbacks, Dave Zito and Joe Mol- lica. I think Daves passing is just as good, but he doesnt get the chance because of the offense we run. He can pass well, and he can
offenseu
Carroll talks about his counterpart. Hes got the edge. Hes smaller, stronger, and a better blocker as well. Nonetheless, we come from the same area. Were good friends, and he doesnt bother me. Later on, Wise returned the compliments. I leam a lot from Harley.Carroll, too, has done a bit of learning. At Linsly Institute, his high school, he didnt become a tight end until junior year. The CMU junior explains. I was a quarterback freshman and sophomore years. But Linsly ' is a small school (my graduating class was 55), and we had six quarterbacks. I was the biggest, and we needed receivers. So, I started

---------------------------------------------------

th 1*75.7 tAooi ymt. mi  htfOaa 1m
recf^
PAC
GViUCase Western Allegheny -Wash. & Jeff. 
Bethany 
John Carroll Hiram
gs
LT0000101I20202030
LT
Hiram 10
Bethany 10 john CaCase Western 21 Uriel 8 CMU 35Augustana 28
I
0 
0 
i 
2
3
4 
3
5Wash. & Jeff. 10John Carroll 3mhjjj
07
PF
131
79
31
39
27
24
24
32
PF
169
126
73
44 
42
45 
32 
49
October 11,1983The TartanPage
INDIVIDUAL LEADERS
31
47
47
86
PA
22 
51 
78 
38 
100 
106 
96 
128
Rushing
1. Jim Donnelly, Case Reserve2. Jim Morrison, CMU
3. Bob Murray, Allegheny
4. Glen Simon, Bethany 
3. Brad Cantwell, JC
'* ' ~ *' 'V
agiteiispfci
Passing
1. Mike John, WbJ
2. Dave Zito, CMU
3. Dave McCaughey, Bethany4. Jim Miale, Thiel
5. Chris Brodman, Allegheny
E dito
5 14725
5
4
5
4
5 
5
G
4
5 
5 
5
4
5 
5
RVDG PVDG
OIU326 
757 
754 
696 
527 
794 
667
Receiving 
T YD/G 1. Andy Houpt, Thiel 
1969 393.8 2. Neal Nola, Bethany
n9 320.6 3. Tom Catanzarite, /C
278.0 4. Bob Adkins, WirJ
258.4 5. Brad Cantwell, JC240.2 9999 
164.8
1603
1112
1292
961
lill
1140
1271
1281
1196
1581
1648
TYD/G
201.5 
228.0
254.2
256.2 
299.0 
3162 
329.6
1.
2.
3.
4.
Conference Scoring 
Fred DiSanto, Case 
Joe Mollka, CMU 
Joe Vasalani, CMU 
Robert FJeischman, CMU
GATYD5 J126448D
A83371 '
,459271
566
Ot245ifl306
cYD2925710256354565572524SO*?
TDYD/G
289.6 
1742
267.7 
161.3 
361.2
YDAV
29310.519113.723113.6- 1549.6946.3
TDPCT
156.65
355.6
053.8
249.0
449.0
TDR/G
05.6
03.5
13.4
032
03.0
rarldr.l
24
24
24
21
PTSyG
8.0
8.0
8.0
7.0
nbar 21. 1*7 iP.Nantol
Pawnayloanaa15213
.V*rCA^'"'LCKtlousing Capacity Strained
rttfriin aadaeiti than laal )Mr'l IM4 w iM m UW- tha year la oeder io nan aeed. ike Hon% OfTkm baa a the aaeHy leaced Shatry (which an baud nui door T* '.iT3Nbet Hall HaaelK f Tom * Morewood. Dofaaeiy Apart ' ad campue fraieraaiea.'nae kaiye *, a kn of undndmwn haa ako m Form number of andean oa food by 411.  )l 
aaaoaa aat farad to W the eacw la the pib| of laM yaaz.-tbe eua ionadory apace waa eeabaaied fa oeaaal occapaaacy MofW Tkaa bet la dad ad al hoaaaag (actMlm oaraad CMU eacapa apparuaaaata aa Doherty wen ocoaptad by aaiM Kadaaaa the* ftaHea bet year la add mo* to 1057 ^aoaa. the boaaat office placed iiaarfa aladaala la aiaataaa tttpbi at Sfatey apartaaaaan. 45 fipAmaa caaapaae frateraMy boaari. fifteen fmba la '   Hr Toaear of Mocaw
an raadeaa aad 100 apacee erbacb van. aery carta io Heath. Siaaapactadly eacaaed"M| by married paadaaaet ta Doherty la all.an data aaefcea nwaa fa i214 adeau.aa- Hoeteeer. accord a Io Haaih. the actaalby occapaacy. vtlua aboal 10 paoplr. araathat 2.1*0 aaaf Sepaeaaber 14 M ftlloa. theaad Kaad of liial^j Sam expkaad the rapatanry la the (%an by the fact that wiaabwa aad of dae lOO^acee a Doha ly eraa'  .peeled to be eacaaed and aoaae- boar p>i coweed a aakaoera to the Hnraa Office Araoabar aaplaaaiara a

---------------------------------------------------

AT HARRIS/GSSD 
SUCCESS 
IS SPELLED
AT OUR ADVANCED 
TECHNOLOGY CENTER 
IN SYOSSET, LONG ISLAND, 
HARRIS/GSSD TOUCHES 
THE PULSE OF THE SYSTEMS 
SUPPORT TECHNOLOGY 
WORLDWIDE
WELL BE ON CAMPUS
October 25
TO INTERVIEW GRADUATING 
PROFESSIONALS IN THE 
FOLLOWING BS/MS DISCIPLINES
Electrical Engineering 
Electrical Technology
If you are unable to meet with us, we invite graduating 
professionals in the above disciplines to forward resumes to:
HARRIS Corporation
Government Support Systems Division 
College Relations Office 
6801 Jericho Turnpike 
Syosset, New York 11791 
516-364-0400fSI HARRIS
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F
A career with HARRIS/GSSD means professional 
growth within one of the most advanced environments 
in the industry. On a personal level, HARRIS/GSSD is 
proud to offer professionals a positive, active, and 
supportive environment where individual potential is 
fully realized in a team approach.

---------------------------------------------------

October 11,1983The TartanPage 21
Two freshman girls initiate idea
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Assistant Sports EditorA new sport is to begin at CMU. It is 
called Womens Rugby. A few of you may be 
surprised, but to freshman Jyl Luria and 
Sue Raginsky, the idea has brought a sense 
of challenge and excitement.Luria and Raginsky were interested in rugby before arriving at CMU. Luria said, We saw that the guys had a team. So, we 
[went to their meeting to try and join the 
men s team, and we were the only girls there. We felt very strange. The guys told us to see 
ow many girls were interested.Up went the posters. Last Tuesday, the 
irst organizational meeting took place, pproximately forty girls attended. We 
ere pleasandy surprised, siad Raginsky. 
| Luria noted, We didnt think we would get 
I such a big turnout.
Luria and Raginsky started the team with intentions of having their first practice in the spring. But Luria pointed out, Everybody was really enthusiastic, and they wanted to start now. As a result, the team will practice as early as Thursday, October 13 at 4:30.Although the two organizers know how to play the game, they have never played for a team. Players from the mens team are going to coach the women until they obtain a better knowledge of the game.Possible rivals include the Pitt Angels and teams from WVU, IUP, and California St. of Pennsylvania. There are sdll lots of opening on the team, so if you couldnt attend last weeks meeting and youre still interested in WTomens Rugby at CMU, attend the first practice Thursday at 4:30 on Flagstaff Hill or call x4712 for information.
Weaver influence still lingers
continued from page 17
always thrived on a good defense. 1983 was 
no exception. Eddie Murray and veteran cat
cher Rick Dempsey field their positions as 
well as anyone in the AL, and are strong 
candidates for a Gold Glove. Rich Dauer 
and Todd Cruz anchor second and third 
base, respectively, and Gary Roenicke, John 
Lowenstein, and A1 Bumbry cover a lot of 
ground in the outfield.The question marks in an otherwise tight Oriole defense are Ken Singleton and the talented Cal Ripken. Singleton can no longer run (not that he really ever could) dueo a knee injury suffered in 1982. He played [designated hitter most of the past season. But he will have to play the field in the World Series if the Orioles are to have his bat in the lineup since the DH is a World Series partici- ||pant only in even-numbered years.Ripken, too, really should be a DH. He led the ALs shortstops in errors in 1983, and often turns a routine grounder into a nightVolleyball
continued from page 16
Most observers, as well as the players, [agree that the mood of the volleyball team [changes quickly. Normally, when a team is behind, it will work even harder to come back. Our intensity decreases as the other [team scores more and more, explained [Heinrick Pan, assistant coach.Communication is improving within the [team. Pan adds that when the girls played |in high school they were rarely told to call [for the ball. Then in college volleyball, playing becomes very serious and competive. rhe players feel they have great potential por next year. Well be familiar with each others style. And well know what is expected from us, declared team captain, Janet Stariha.A new setter, Yvonne Fetterman, tried out *e position a few weeks ago at the Thiel [tournament and shows talent not only in her superb left handed spiking, but in setting as well.
PREGNANT?
And you didn't mean to be? 
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 621 -1988
mare. Unfortunately, the Orioles have no other shortstop (Dauer and Cruz could play the position in an emergency) and are trying to hide Ripken at this key defensive position. Where is Mark Belanger?
Starters  How many teams can boast of six proven starting pitchers? The Orioles have Scott McGregor, Mike Flanagan, Mike Boddicker, Storm Davis, Dennis Martinez, and Jim Palmer. Those six names tell the whole story.McGregor and Flanagan have been two of the steadiest southpaws in the league over the past 5 years. McGregor won 18 of 25 decisions with an earned run average of 3.18. Flanagan was 12-4 in half a season, and if not for injuries, would have won 20. Both are sinker-slider type pitchers and will give the fastball-hitting Phillies fits.The two finest rookie starters in the AL this season were Mike Boddicker and Storm Davis. Boddicker, the AL playoff MVP, took the league by storm (no pun intended), winning 16 while losing only 8 and posting a 2.77 ERA, second best in the league. This was done in only 3A of a season. Davis was no slouch either, winning 13 of 20 decisions in his first full Oriole campaign. Both threw shutout baseball against the White Sox last week.Veteran righthanders Martinez and Palmer are proven winners even though they both suffered disappointing seasons. Martinez never really got untracked and managed only seven victories. Palmer was hurt most of May, June, and July, btit showed signs of brilliance in the Orioles strong stretch drive in August and early September.
Neither will start in the Series, but can be counted on if called upon.Starting pitching is the greatest Oriole strength.
Bullpen  On paper, Sammy Stewart, Tim Stoddard, and Tippy Martinez appear to form a powerful bullpen. On the field, however, they dont quite meet such a standard although they will do for the Series. Martinez saved 19 games but couldnt always hold a lead. The 68 250 pound Stoddard no longer possesses his 90 + mile per hour fastball and cant be counted on in a close game. This leaves Stewart, who is usually the long reliever for the Orioles. Nonetheless, he has been called upon in every conceivable situation and rarely has he caused a Baltimore letdown.If Baltimore needs to go to the bullpen, they may be in trouble.
Bench  For the last few seasons, the Orioles have employed a platoon system at several positions. The bench is different from day-to-day, depending on the pitcher. Joe Nolan backs up Dempsey, Lenn Sakata can play any infield position, and there is a host of outfielders who can step in at a moments notice. Benny Ayala and Jim Dwyer are the usual pinch hitters, but Tito Landrum, John Lowenstein, John Shelby, and Gary Roenicke are a strong contingent when they arent in the lineup. The Oriole bench is quite versatile.
Intangibles  The Orioles have been here before. Over a dozen current Orioles were with the club in 1979 when Baltimore lost to the Pirates in seven games.Like the Phillies, the Os are red hot. They
won 80% of their games In the final six weeks of the season, blowing away formidable foes like the Tigers, Brewers, and Yankees. All are strong hitting teams, something the Phillies are not. The veteran starting pitchers can win the big ones, and the rookie starting pitchers can do the same as the playoffs proved. The Orioles bats should produce enough runs to support what should be strong pitching.Probably the most important intangible is that manager Joe Altobelli is managing the team no differently than his esteemed predecessor Earl Weaver. The guy knew how to win.
W
take care 
of our own. 
.The 
united way;
Univesitvpf Pittsburgh
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS
11 Months + You = MBA
You fit this equation if you:
? have a good academic record. No specific major required.
? are committed to a career in management.
? have effective communication skills.
? wish to attend an AACSB accredited MBA program.
Our admissions representative will be on campus 
Friday, October 14 and would like to meet you. 
Sign up for an interview in your placement office.
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15260

---------------------------------------------------

JOE FRESHMANBy Mark Levine
HaiC utfiIwlWt Yvfcrv
lOfctto our sv o'aoci 
Boy, or ?U 
CM yo too***
CAUSE ME ANO HAIRY 
hack** vwe rouMo your 
HMtCX MKU! -<__WiA*
r 30T, \ DON'T 
HW To TfU YooK 
PdttNTS YOURi NOT 
RE Aliy E N6A6f D ///
SMI'U 0 Hr\3f Mo/ ^
45Wut Oou> \ 
hmuss Ano \ 
PMDICtAUE/ ' 
eviKnriiM6 h
(AlUum VIAMTS /N IMA 
f Moti.1
ni Wolf UMM ' 
Auy* 1MI1S, ANO * ft 0 TMiK' 
mo -n* oo*tom!
I fu- finrst tilt* Edidit ,ind in ( rii)<id<< l>* Nl-irtlit lnt|Hrtffm ^ *  ( *n*4l > l ' * -
Page 22The TartanOctober 11,1983 
*
Keeping the ball in the air is a
Soccer battles, wins
By SCOTT BOZIC Anderer put one over the keepers outTartan Staffwriter stretched arms to re-tie the game at two. VeryThey had a difficult problem to solve, and they met the challenge.On Tuesday in an unrelenting rain, the Tartan soccer team took on what Coach Gaudioso calls the best team we played so far and came out victorious by a 3-2 margin. The team was Geneva and the game was an exciting one which saw CMU take the lead, lose it, and finally get it back for good
half with a rocket from 30 yards out to stake the Tartans to a 1-0 lead. Shortly before intermission, a Geneva shot skidded by keeper Sam Mon- and into the goal to knot the score at
Early in the second half, Montague slipped on the slick field, which allowed the ball to go by him, giving Geneva a 2-1 lead. Things did not look good for the Tartans until late in the game when forward Ted
soon after his game-tying tally, Anderer scored his second goal of the game, sealing ; a 3-2 come-from-behind victory for the Tartans.It was a real morale booster to come back against a team of Genevas caliber, affirmed Anderer in response to the win.Unfortunately that feeling didnt last too long, as the team was shutout by Allegheny Saturday, 2-0. We were prepared mentally and physically, but we just couldnt get going, Gaudioso judged. Allegheny scored toward the end of each half to hand the Tartans their first conference setback of the season.Despite the loss on Saturday, the team still has a very respectable record of 5-2, 1-1 in the Presidents Athletic Conference. CMU has two home soccer games this week: Tuesday versus Washington and Jefferson and Friday against Bethany. Both are conference matchups with gametime both days at 3:30.

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.f %
classifieds
\ lunch hour Resume Clinic, is scheduled by Job 
Advisory Service for Wednesday, October 12, 
noon to 1:15 at the JAS Center in Oakland. The 
JAS staff will help you sharpen you? resume 
image. The cost is |15 and advance registration 
'is necessary. Call JAS at 621-0940 for more
information.
Interviewing Savvy a lunchtime workshop is 
scheduled by Job Advisory for Monday, October 
17 from 12:30-2:30 at the JAS Center in Oakland. 
JAS staff will help you demystify the interview 
process. The cost is $20 and advance registration 
is necessary. Call JAS at 621-0940 for more
information.
Roommate needed to share apt. on N. Neville St. 
10 min. walk to campus. Located near grocery 
store, laundromat, etc. Call 682-7133 after 4:30. 
professional Typing Services available on short 
notice. Resumes, dissertations, manuscripts, 
books. Jackie 372-1376 evenings, weekends.
Walk to campus, on bus line. Selecdon of sizes 
land styles of apts. Security, high-rise elevator 
I building, intercom, coin-op laundry. ALL 
I UTILITIES INCLUDED from $268. 361-5792.
 Teresa: we laugh together, share together, and
I dare to dream together. We want to wish you a Happy Birthday, together!! Love always, B, S, 
land L.
Waitress wanted  experience preferred. Please apply in person. Panther Hollow Inn, 4611
Forbes Ave.
Flying Fingers word processing. Business or aca
demic. Papers, resumes, caver letters, etc. Student 
rates available. Erika Van Sickel 241-1338.
1 fc 2 bedroom apartments now available, carpetI ing, A/C, equipped kitchen, walk to all universiI ties. Near bus. From $232 plus electric. 361-5792.
| Hewlett-Packard HP-41CV calculator. Over 
2,000 lines continous memory. $190 or best offer.687-8323.
Typing jobs sought Last minute assignments 
accepted. Editing available. Use latest model 
IBM equipment. Fees negotiable. Ellen: 422- 
0955.
Dianes Secretarial Service Resumes, academic, 
business and personal typing. Pick up and deliv
ery available. 464-1618.
Needed - a David Lee Roth look-a-like for a Van 
Halen air guitar band. If interested and can drink 
Jack Daniels and do splits, contact Jeff or Cam at 
681-5270.
general
The CMU Peace Alliance invites students, 
faculty, and staff to its meeting Wednesday at 5 
p.m. in Skibo 45. Come learn more about what 
we can do towards peace-making. This week a 
German student will tell us about the peace 
movement in Germany and the Green Party. For 
more info contact Andy Hisgen x3053, Dan 
Rosenblum x2185 or Felicia Pratto x3692.
Attention CMU community, it is time for buggy 
once again. Fall freerolls will be held on the 
following Sundays from 6 a.m. to9a.m.: October 
16, October 30, November 6, and November 13. 
As in previous years, they will run through 
Schenley Park on Tech and Frew Streets. For 
further information call x2107.
The Pittsburgh Forum for Social Responsibility 
and Values presents Dr. Allen Newell, U. A. and 
Helen Whitaker University Professor of Compu
ter Science, CMU, who will present a talk 
entitled, Artificial Intelligence and the Quality 
of Life, Thursday, October 6, 3:30 p.m., at Frick 
Fine Arts Auditorium, University of Pittsburgh. 
Our theme for this year is The role of knowledge 
in improving the quality of life. All interested 
persons, regardless of their particular discipline 
or educational level, are invited to participate in 
the Forum. For more information please call 
Seth Chaiklin at 624-6423, Brian Rogerson at 
624-0780, or Matthew' Lewis at 578-2810.
How much does sex discrimination in insurance 
really cost? The sex-based actuarial tables tradi
tionally used by insurance companies have come 
under fire from consumer groups and feminists, 
and legislators have taken up the cause recently. 
Is there a sound statistical basis for discrimina
tory tables? How much of a difference is reflected 
in individuals insurance tabs? What is the eco
nomic impact of insurance discrimination on 
women as a group. Find out at the next meeting 
of Squirrel Hill NOW, Tuesday, October 11, at 
7:30 pm, at the Sixth Presbyterian Church, 
Forbes and Murray Avenues.
Counseling and Student Development Center
presents workshop on managing stress: Wed., 
10/19-11/9, 4:30-6 p.m. Effective Study Skills: 
Thurs., 10/20-11/10, 4:30-6 p.m. Confidence in 
Communication: Assertive Social Skills 10/20- 
11/10, 4-6 p.m. To register, call 578-2922, enrol
lment limited.
Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs John 
P. Crecine will have op>en office hours for stu
dents between 3 and 5 p.m. in his office, 610 
Warner Hall, on Wednesday, October 19, 1983. 
Students who wish to meet with Dr. Crecine 
should telephone his office, 578-2056, to set up an 
appointment.
Interested in practicing business and earning 
money on campus? Then Student Corporation is
for you. Students from all majors are welcome to 
call x3535 for information about Student Corpo
ration or to stop by a meeting any Monday at 5 
p.m. in Skibo 13.
Ms. Denise Connerty, Beaver College Abroad, 
will be in the H8cSS Lounge on October 11 at 2 
p.m. to answer any questions concerning the 
Study Abroad Program for Fall 83 and Spring 
84.
Anyone interested in becoming involved with 
Stageworks, the CFA playwrights theater company, leave name, phone #, address and area of interest in the Stageworks box in the Drama Office (CFA 108).
CMU Lacrosse Qub - anyone inters ted in play
ing lacrosse please attend organizational meet
ing, Tues. Oct. 11, at 8:30 p.m. in Skibo Rm. 12. 
Questions call 687-6893.
La Table Franaise, French Language Table, 
Tuesdays, 12 noon. Morewood Dining Room. 
Students, Faculty, Staff welcome. Sponsored by 
European Studies and Modem Language 
Programs.
Women: Do you lack a network? Would you like 
a support group? Join the Academic Bag Ladies 
over lunch on Thurs. 12-1 at 4515 Forbes Ave. 
Phone 682-6886.
Ms. Deedy Mills, Representative from California 
Western School of Law will be on campus on 
Wed., 10/12,1:30-3:30 in the H&SS lounge (Baker 
Hall 254C) to discuss careers in law, and answer 
questions about careers in law, the variety erf 
students who go to law school, and about Califor
nia Western School of Law in particular.
You are invited to an Informal Bible Discussion
group. We are nondenominational in nature, 
and deal with campus-related and social issues 
based on Gods Word. We meet every Monday 
evening at 9, in Room 39, Skibo. Stop by, and feel 
free to bring a friend with you. For more informa
tion, call 441-0819 or 361-5632, and ask for John.
The American Institute of Chemical Engineers
will be meeting tomorrow, October 12 at the 
Delta Up>silon fraternity house. The meeting will 
start at 9 p.m. and feature Dennis Ryan of the 
career placement office who will speak about 
Careers in Chemical Engineering. Professor 
Paul Sides will also discuss his reoent research. 
New members always welcome.
AIESEC, the International Association of Stu
dents in Economics and Business Management, 
will hold its weekly meeting, Wednesday at 4:30 
in Room 11, Skibo. Students of all majors are 
invited to participate in AIESECs international 
exchange and management development 
programs.
I
About To 
Take That 
First Step?
- x
ON CAMPUS Wednesday, October 26th
Uf i
TAKE THAT FIRST IMPORTANT CAREER STEP HERE
University of CaliforniaLawrence Livermore National Laboratory
Ask your Placement Office for details on our 
upcoming Campus visit, or see our ad in this 
paper next Tuesday, October 18th for additional 
information.
LLNL is an equal opportunity employer, m/f/h 
P.O. Box 5510, Dept. JCR, Livermore, CA 94550
aiti
voting
Wednesday, October 12 
8:30 am  8:30 pm 
Skibo 
Nominated are:
ICee Ann JMuckstein 
Qiina (3llig 
renda ^elley 
Sebbie l&ovacs 
ieth 3itarcus * 
3tary Ann Sacco
l&urt JVbel 
Sohn ^3ayne 
Boug lhinestein 
^Randy J&m-^mith 
Jlolf $an BeVaart 
3lohn JSessels
CALL 571-2*21CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24The TartanOctober 11,1983
Some desk jobs are more exciting than others.As a Navy pilot or flight officer, your desk can be a sophisticated combination of supersonic jet aircraft and advanced electronic equipment. But you can handle it. Because Navy flight training gives you the navigation, aerodynamics and other technical know-how you need.In return, Navy aviation demands something of you as an officer: Leadership.Your path to leadership starts with officer training thats among the most demanding in the military. Its intensive leadership and professional schooling combined with rigorous Navy flight training. And its all geared to prepare you and other college graduates for the unique challenge of Navy aviation. The program is tough but rewarding.One important reward for Navy officers is decisionmaking authority.In the air, and on the ground, you have management responsibility from the beginning. And your responsibility grows as you gain experience. No company can give you this kind of leadership responsibility this fast. And nothing beats the sheer excitement of Navy flying.The salary is exciting, too. Right away, youll earn about $18,300 a year. Thats better than the average corporation will pay you just out of college.And with regular Navy promotions and other pay increases, your annual salary will soar to $31,100 after four years. Thats on top of a full package of benefits and privileges.Before you settle down to an earth- bound desk job, reach for the sky. Reach for the coupon. Find out what it takes to be part of the Naval Aviation Tbam. You could have a desk that flies at twice the speed of sound.
NAVY OPPORTUNITY W 343| INFORMATION CENTER I P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015
? Please send me more information about becoming a member of the Naval Aviation Team. (0A)
Name....................................................................................... First (Please Print) Last
Address__________________________Apt. #-----------------------
I City___________________State____________Zip------------------
I Age_________tCollege/University______________________
JYear in College______________*GPA-------------------------------
Touch FootballIntermediatesCo-Rec Volleyball
Majors
ACC
Cash in Advance
w
3
L
0
- % 
1.000Minor League
W ankers A201.000League NRude Bovs110.500W L
NFC
Coaches All-Stars KS
W L
2 0
y Hairy-Mollusk Mavlers 0 
1 non Shirley Temples 0
2
3
0.000
0.000
Your Mamma Metals Qub Otters Lobsters
4 0
2 0 a -,
1 01.000Tennis
2 1 
0 2Rogues3 10.750Pilam  B0 2BETA1 10.500 LendlWL%Hillel0 3PKAATOAuthoritySAEVegetables
1 1 
0 1 
0 1 
0 1 
0 2
0.500
0.000 pK
0000 ATO 0.000  . _
0.000 s Taw 
Synchronicitv
- r 5 
4: ; : llSi 2
1
0
2
1
1
2-3
1.0000.6670.5000.667.3330.250
League LSIJPA I DUHenderson Huffalumps Cherwonik
W L4 ()
3 1 
1
0 2
': V Minors
Zoo? 'V ^ ' s* s_ :> . '--i r>
30.000Harry s Tavern0 3
ConnorswL%*
Division AW LThe Inz301.000League KW LNP-Completions3 01000 Doherty' 4 -10.800Pilam  A3 0Spliffs2 10.667 The Weanies110.500SUPA II2 0Zoo1 10.500 Bovs from Schlag120.333Faraday2 iArmy ROTC0 10.000 tx-a.120.333ATO1 2Whanker's B0 10.000 PUP030.000Ampere0 2Koshed0 2M - 1 I1 M0.000 Math010.000SUPA ill0 >- ' -v
This Desk Can Reach Mach 2.d d i g T es Y,
?Major/Minor.
Phone Number.(Area Code) Best Tune to Call
This is (or general recruitment information. You do, not have to 
furnish any of the information requested Of course, the more we know, the more we can help to determine the kinds of N>vy posi
tion* for which you qualify. I
Navy Officers 
Get Responsibility Fast.

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie-MellonUniversityTuesday October MCMLXXXIII

---------------------------------------------------

OUR FIFTH DISTINCTIVE YEAR
VOLUME VNUMBER I

---------------------------------------------------

Editor..................................................Gregg Hower
Assistant Editor .. . e........................Judith Merrill
Design Editors.....................................Beth Bangor
................................................................Jill Gorelick
Literary Staff..........Catherine MeCafferty: fiction
Lauren Schneider: poetry
..........Lauren Weisberg
...................William Bir
................Neal Johnston
Design Staff..........Jill Gorelick: cover; title page
.....................................Perry Kirk: pages 4, 5, 6, 7
.........................................Nancy Smith: pages 8, 9
.............................Lisa Chimento: pages 10, 11, 12
Illustrators..........Diane Thodos: pages 4, 5, 6, 7
. ...........................Lisa Chimento: pages 10, 11, 12
Writers........Craig Steinitz: Like Father pages 4-7
.......................................E. M. B.: Wading page 8
.... Maria Barbuto: The Easter Poem; BMA page 9 
.... Roger W. Gilles: Signing Up pages 10, 11, 12

---------------------------------------------------

4 Dossier
ing too much. It drove my 
mother crazy. We had her 
committed a few years 
ago . Now my father is just 
an old fart that stayed in 
the Business too long. I 
wanted to hit Maryland 
while everybody still had 
jobs, and then Id get 
out. Maybe I could retire 
or go into another Busiless. Basically, thats 
vhat the Business is all 
ibout.
You're running away,* he said. Away 
from Rimi. You want to 
forgget.
I forgot about Rimi 
the day I knew that her 
having a doctor for a 
father wasnt going to 
help me for shit. He 
couldnt make me the Vice 
President of his medical 
practice. I was so stupid 
then. Why didn  t you warn 
me? He didnt because 
he was too busy with the 
little girls out in Ohio. 
I told him that Rimi 
didnt hurt anyone but 
herself. And Robbie.
I motioned to the
waitress.
 Give me another sand
wich, Rose. Its for my 
kid. And not so fatty this 
t ime.
I heard Schlomniki 
belch. He opened his 
shirt and pulled it out of
his pants. There were red 
creases across his chest 
and stomach. They were 
sore looking and shiny 
with sweat. I watched him 
eat. It must have been 
easy to be a Schlomniki. 
He owned a lot of apart
ments around Pittsburgh. 
He didnt have to hustle 
for his money. All he had 
to do all day was walk his 
Rottweiler or sit in Zeldas and let Kreplach 
soup dribble off his chin 
onto his gut.
 Fuck you,   I said.
Schlomniki gave me his 
best glare. It was enough 
to tie up two Rottweil
ers. But I didnt even 
smile or frown. I just 
looked at him. Then I 
turned away and finished 
my sandwich.
When I got home Ginny 
was heating up a can of 
Spaghetteos. She was wear
ing her Chardon jeans 
with the C plucked out of 
the label. I gave her ass a 
gentle squeeze and pushed 
my tongue into her ear. 
She was a great change of 
pace from Rimi whose idea 
of being natural was to 
not wear make-up the 
nights we had sex. But I 
knew if she was really na
tural , then she wouldn  t 
have worried about fart
ing in front of me. But 
Rimi never farted, even
LIKE FATHER
Ive been in the Busi
ness too long. I couldnt 
just ignore Schlomniki 
when he walked into Zeldas Deli and sat at the 
table to my and my 
fathers right. I had to 
read him. Had to find away 
to hate him. Its a lot 
easier to be a siding 
salesman when you hate 
people. I hated Schlom
niki. He looked like any 
bum that would walk up to 
your car, spit on the 
windshield and ask for 
money. Except for his 
eyes. He must have practiced that look. He 
looked like he was 
forever trying to figure 
out new ways to tie up his 
dog. He was scared. I knew 
it. There arent many 
looks that I havent seen 
in sixteen years of sel
ling siding.
*Have you told little 
Robbie yet? my father 
asked. Rimi, my wife, 
killed herself a few 
weeks ago. I told Robbie 
that she went on a long 
trip.
I shook my head. My 
mouth was full of a hot 
pastrami sandwich that 
was too chewy. Too much 
gristle and fat. Zeldas 
went down hill years ago, 
but my father still liked 
it.
 When are you going to 
tell him?  he asked.
I leaned my head down to 
the plate and pushed the 
bite of hot pastrami 
sandwich through my lips .
Hes not ready, I 
said. Ill tell him 
after we move to Mary
land.  Pennsylvania 
sucks anymore. The 
Mooches are still here. 
They all want to buy, but 
they dont have credit. 
Theyre all unemployed. I 
find Mooch after idiot 
Mooch. They nod their 
heads like the people in 
the front row during a 
Jerry Falwell sermon. 
They sign the contracts, 
but the Jobs never get put 
up. They get turned down 
by the bank.
Youre just running 
away to Maryland,   he 
said. Theres nothing 
down there.  
I ignored him. He knew 
there was a paper mill in 
Kaiser, West Virginia, 
and that it was just 
across the river from 
Maryland. The mill had a 
government contract and 
wasnt laying anyone off. 
He just didnt want me to 
leave Pittsburgh. Hed 
get lonely. There was one 
time when he was the best. 
He taught me the Business 
then - But then he started 
whoring around and drink
I
V
by Craig Steinitz

---------------------------------------------------

HBMi
Dossier 5
after she stopped shaving 
her armpits. One time 
when I just turned off the 
shower, I thought I heard 
her farting in our bed
room. But I never asked 
her about it.
Ginny wasnt farting in 
front of me yet, but she 
did have a good idea about 
what was really natural. 
She loved to be touched. 
And I like to touch her. 
What could be more natu
ral than that?
I moved around her head 
and aimed for the other 
ear.
  I love you Bob, *  she 
said.  Youre so ma
ture .  *
She was a nineteen year 
old hairstylist I met at 
the *Great Happenings 
Unisex Boutique. She 
was cutting my hair and 
letting her tits rub and 
buff my ears. In front of 
her mirror there was a 
glass mug that was 
stuffed full of dollar 
bills. After I paid for my 
haircut I walked back 
over to Ginnys mug and 
laid a twenty across the 
top. Weve been together 
ever since. I had her move 
in with me after Rimi 
died. She was just what I 
needed. You cant sell 
siding if you dont fuck.
When Robbie walked into 
the room it was almost 
seven oclock. My  Call 
Bob commercial was 
about to be on the televi
sion. I told Robbie to 
call my mother at Western 
Psychiatric and tell her 
to watch for me. Ginny had 
to dial the number for 
him. He only had enough 
time to say hello before 
he tilted his head in con
fusion and hung up.
He said, Bubby cant 
talk now. She says shes 
hemorrhaging.*
I had to laugh. Robbie 
was still a Mooch, but for 
an eight year old he did 
pronounce hemorrhaging 
well.
 Whats hemorrhag
ing?   he asked.
Dont worry about it,   
I said. Youll find out 
soon enough.  
I looked at Ginny. She 
was watching me and 
kneeding the inside of 
her lip with her teeth. 
The heat from the stove 
made little beads of 
sweat form under her 
eyes.
 Here,   I said to Rob
bie as I tossed him the bag 
with the hot pastrami 
sandwich in it. I got 
this for you.  
He didnt look inside. 
He just threw it away on 
the table, like it was one 
f his spaceman guns and 
the batteries were dead.
 But Ginnys making me 
some Spaghetteos.  
Ginny put the Spaghet
teos in two bowls and put
them on the table. I put 
the sandwich in the 
refrigerator and turned 
on the television. Then 
we all watched John and 
Melissa Vansack tell the 
world how glad they were 
that they called me.
* Were so glad we ca*lled 
Bob. Just look at what our 
house was like before we 
did. A before picture 
flashed on the screen. 
The house looked like any 
other Indiana, Pennsyl
vania coal miners house 
would. It was a fragile 
looking two story wood 
framed piece of Cuck, 
with peeling white paint. 
Then the after picture 
came on the screen and 
showed the same house 
with Sky Blue U. S. 
Steels Vinyl siding to 
cover up the rotting wood 
and unsightly paint. It 
was a $7,000 Job, but by 
the time the Vansacks are 
done paying for it they 
will have paid at least 
$11,000. Weve never 
been so happy. Call 
Bob!   Then a picture of 
me with my arms around the 
Vansacks came on.  Call 
me. I11 take care of you.
I  m Bob. 888-7707.   Then 
Bowling for Dollars 
came on.
Tell Ginny what the 
Vansacks are,   I said.
*Mooches,   Robbie 
said.
 And why are they 
Mooohes^ I said.
Cause theyll buy 
anything.*
I imagined standing at 
the top of a mountain with 
a whole valley full of 
coal miners and factory 
workers listening to me. 
Id stretoh out my arms 
to the sky and say, 
Mooches of the world:
: Buy when you don  t need 
it. Buy when you cant 
afford it. Just Buy! Buy! 
Buy! And theyd all 
ask,   But what do we want 
to buy most, oh great 
prime contracter of the 
city.   Id point down to 
them. * You all want 
Cuck! I know you dont 
know what it is! Thats 
okay! I know what it is ! So 
buy it! Its Cuck! Its 
good! Good Cuck! You want 
it! Buy it!   And they  d 
all chant in unison,  We 
want Cuck. We want
Cuck . . .  
I was tapping out their 
rhythm on the table when 
Robbie tugged on my shirt
sleeve. Daddy, can we go to a
drive-in tonight? 
X X X X
The Movie we went to see 
was  HogHarley, Davids 
Son: The Madman Of The 
Ring.   It was about a guy 
named Harley that quit 
music school to become a 
wrestler, so that he
could pay for the miracle 
operation that would make 
his siter, Gloria, walk 
again. He shaved half of 
his head and bleached the 
other half white. Before 
every match, he would dig 
phlegm out of his throat 
with his index finger and 
hurl it into the scream
ing crowd. And after he 
vanquished his opponents 
he would go home to wheel 
Gloria out to their porch 
where she could look up at 
the stars and dream.
I could tell Robbie 
loved it. He was in the 
back seat with his arms 
around the passenger side 
headrest. His chin was 
digging into the vinyl.
Why is wrestling 
realistic? I asked 
Robbie.
Its not real, 
G i nny said. Its 
fake.
No, it * s real, *  I 
said and looked at 
Robbie.
He shook his head and 
shrugged his shoulders.
 Its because the bad 
guys usually win, I
I imagined pushing my 
fingers into Ginnys 
jeans. They were extra 
tight ever since she took 
the C out of the label. 
Harley was finished with 
hi s mi lk and was out on the 
porch with Gloria.
*Dont do it,  Gloria 
said.
 But how else can I pay 
for your operation? 
Harley said.
No dont, Ginny 
said.
I pulled my hand out.
I meant Harley, 
Ginny said as she pushed 
my hand back in. I was up to 
my second knuckles but 
still couldn't feel any 
hair.
 But your true love is 
music, Gloria said.
Someone farted.
Gloria turned away from 
Harley. He put his hand on 
her head.
I could feel the hair.
*  I have to go to the 
bathroom,  * Robbie said. 
He leaned over the 
headrest.
Ginny pulled my hand 
out.
said. *  You hear what I m 
telling you? 
Ginny elbowed me in the 
ribs and Robbie nodded. 
Harley listened to sym
phony music and drank a 
glass of milk to help him 
produoe more mucus for 
his upcoming match with 
Brutus Moosabini, the 
world champion.
Harley walked back into 
the house, crying.
You dont have to 
cuck, do you? I said.
* 4I don  t want you oucking in any drive-in 
toilets.*

---------------------------------------------------

6 Dossier
in baok seats with other 
Mooches, making little 
Mooohes, just for me. We 
walked past an old Cadil
lac convertible. There 
was a fat lady sitting on 
the hood. She was making 
loud gasping noises as 
she stuffed popoorn into 
her mouth. Her stubby 
fingers barely fit past 
her teeth. There were two 
albino looking kids 
inside the car. A boy and a 
girl. The boy was chewing 
something off of the 
girls forehead. Turn 
it up,   the fat lady 
said. But the kids 
ignored her.
  You know what that fat 
lady has on her house, 
dont you,   I said.
* Cuck,   Robbie said.
And why does the fat 
lady have Cuck on here 
house? *
Because shes a 
Mooch, Robbie said.
*  She  11 buy anything.  
Thats right, I 
said. And she lets her 
kids cuck in drive-in 
toilets.
We walked into the 
woods . Robbie pulled his 
pants down and squatted 
against a tree. I pissed 
into a clump of grass that 
was poking out from under 
the tree next to Robbie. 
It made a foaming noise 
and Robbie watched.
Through the trees I 
could see Brutus Moosabini . He was lying on his 
back. Football helmetted 
midgets ran across the 
gymnasium floor, jumped 
up and speared Brutus 
ribcage. Brutus was in 
agony.
  I cant do it,   Rob
bie said.
Brutus clenched his 
teeth.
1 Just relax, *  I said. 
A bald blaok man olimbed
up on a chair next to Bru
tus . He held one of the 
midgets up by the ankles 
and dropped him head 
first into Brutus solar 
plexus.
* What do I wipe with,   
Robbie asked.
I fumbled around in my 
pocket for a handkerchief 
that wasn  t there.   Don  t 
touch any leaves,   I 
said. * * They have bugs on 
them. I pulled out my 
roll, but the lowest bill I 
had was a twenty.   You  re 
going to have to use your 
socks. It s the price you 
pay for thinking like a 
Mooch. You shouldve 
brought something with 
you.*
On the way back to the 
car we stopped at the 
refreshment stand. It was 
dimly lit, so everyone 
inside looked a little 
green in the face. The air 
had its usual buttered 
vomit smell. I got myself 
a Snickers. Robbie wanted
a Coke. The cashier 
looked to be a kid in his 
twenties . He had that  * I 
want to call Bob  look. 
He was probably a new win
dows man.
 One twenty five,   he 
said. His mouth almost 
closed when he stopped 
talking, but not quite.
* Hey I know you,   he 
said. YoureBob. Call 
Bob, right?
  That  s me. 
Hey Cherisse,   he 
said. Look whos 
here.
  You want to canvas for 
me, kid. Ill make you 
rich beyond your wildest 
dreams. I winked at 
Robbie.
The cashier looked down 
at the money in his hand. 
Cherisse, can you do 
this?
She gave me the change. 
Are you serious, 
man? he said. About 
me working for you?  
  What does your father 
do? I asked.
Hes laid off right 
now. But he  s a welder.   
*Forget it.  
On the way back to the 
car I could see Gloria 
watching television. 
There were announcers on 
the screen. Harley was 
praying in an empty 
locker room with an empty 
glass of milk sitting at 
his feet.
* * You know what that kid 
at the refreshment stand 
had, dont you,   I said.
 Yeah, he had hair in 
his nose,   Robbie said.
  No, not nose hair,   I 
said.  He had a 
Robbie looked up at me. 
He stumbled and a little 
Coke spilled out over his 
shoes.
That kid is destined 
to be a Mooch. It  s in his 
blood.
Yeah, hell buy any
thing, Robbie said.
  Can I get a napkin for my 
feet?
He ran back to the 
refreshment stand while I 
walked back to the car. 
When I got there Ginny 
wanted to know why I 
didnt get her anything.
I told her I was tired. She 
kind of pouted and then 
rested her head between 
my shoulder and my chest.
When Robbie got back he 
took off his shoes and 
wiped off his feet.
 Do you want anything 
else to eat? I asked 
him.
He did, so I gave Ginny a 
twenty and told her to get 
one of everything. They 
walked away, holding 
hands. Robbies shoes 
were still untied, so he 
kept tripping on the 
gravel and bouncing off 
of Ginnys thigh.
I tried to watch the 
movie for a while, but I
hated it. There was no way 
Harley was going to lose. 
The only question was 
whether he would get the 
money in time for Glo
rias operation, or she 
would die before he even 
got home. I didnt care. I 
felt like a Mooch for hav
ing to pay to see it, but 
Robbie liked it. I can 
remember going to driveins with my mother. It 
seems like I spent every 
night of my childhood 
watching Anna and the 
King of Siam  or  Pic
nic. I cant remember 
much about those movies, 
except that my mother 
would cry a lot and smoke 
cigarettes that she held 
in those long plastic 
holders. My father was 
probably out whoring 
around, but I didnt know 
that then.
I turned around to see 
if they were coming out of 
the refreshment stand. 
They were still inside. I 
could imagine that Ginny 
had Robbie propped up on 
her hip, so he could see in 
the food cases. I looked 
over to the fat lady's 
Cadillac. The albino boy 
was standing in front of 
the car, looking like he 
couldnt decide whether 
to stay or run. Then from 
inside the car the fat 
lady made an apelike ges
ture and the boy ran off. 
The fat lady was hugging 
the girl. She was rocking 
back and forth and she 
looked like she was cry
ing. She used her stubby 
little fingers to paw at 
whatever the boy had 
chewed away from the 
girl  s forehead. Then she 
got out of the Cadillac 
and walked towards the 
rest rooms.
Harley threw Brutus out 
of the ring and I turned 
the sound down and went to 
sleep.
I woke up to the sound of 
Robbie throwing up in the 
back seat. Ginny opened 
the door and let Robbie 
kneel in the gravel and 
spit out whatever was 
still in his mouth. Then 
it started again. It 
didnt seem like it would 
ever stop. He must have 
eaten a whole pizza by 
himself. Ginnyrubbedhis 
back for him. Somehow it 
was nice to see. I could 
tell that she really 
liked Robbie. I thought 
of my father and how he 
could never appreciate 
her like I could. He fig
ured a girl like Ginny was 
only good for fucking. 
But I knew that she was 
pretty good for heating 
up Spaghetteos or rubbing 
a kids back while he 
puked.
After Ginny wiped his 
mouth off I said,  When I 
told you to get one of 
everything, I didnt say 
you had to eat it all .Its 
your own fault. Youre 
thinking like a Mooch.   
Then Robbie started to 
cry.   I want Mummy,   he 
screamed. Ginny wrestled 
him back into the car and 
hugged him but he didnt 
stop screaming. He was 
looking at me and so was 
Ginny.
I said,  You cant see 
your mother. She left 
with Schlomniki and moved 
to California. You dont 
want to live with them, do 
you?
Ginny shook her head. 
She didnt look happy at 
Theyre all sissies 
in California. None of 
them play baseball. They 
all play soccer. You 
dont want to play 
soccer.
It didnt work. I had to 
rive him home.
When we got home Robbie 
as a lot calmer. Ginny 
ad him take a bath.
She walked into my bedoom and said, * When are 
'ou going to tell him?   
Hes not ready, I 
said.
You have to tell him 
sometime. Hes never 
going to be ready for 
that.
  Then you tell him,   I 
said. Youre better at 
that stuff.  
So I lay down on the bed 
and listened. I could 
hear Ginny talking from 
the bathroom, but I 
couldn  t make out the 
words. Then I could hear a 
little yelp from Robbie 
and some splashing 
noises, like Ginny had to 
wrestle Robbie baok into 
the tub. It was quiet for 
about a half hour until 
Ginny put Robbie to bed.
She walked back into my 
bedroom. Her shirt was 
still wet. I expected her 
to be crying, but she 
looked more tired than 
anything else. She looked 
old. She lay down next to 
me.
Touch me, Bob,  she 
said. I love it when you 
touch me.  
So I touched her. I 
touched her like no other 
siding salesman ever 
touched his nineteen year 
old hairstylist. I 
touched her on her back, 
on her stomach, in her 
ass. I touched her like 
shed never been touched 
before. And then I took a 
shower.
The bathroom reminded 
meofRimi. It was pink all 
over and smelled from 
little soap roses, but no 
farts. I turned on the 
shower and let the water

---------------------------------------------------

/
Dossier 7
run into my eyes. It 
burned a little but it 
felt good. I wished I 
could have told Robbie * I 
imagined that I was in the 
Cadillac with him. Except 
t wasnt the fat ladys 
Cadillac. It was my brand 
new one. I was kissing the 
pepperoni vomit from his 
cheeks and squeezing the 
perfect skin of his 
skinny wrists up to his 
chest, so I could feel the 
strong beating of his 
heart.
I turned off the water 
and walked back into the 
bedroom. Ginny was lying 
on the bed, smoking a 
cigarette. I thought of 
calling my father. He 
would have liked to hear 
about Robbie, but it was 
too late. So I crawled 
ack into bed and touched 
tinny again. __________
pm

---------------------------------------------------

8 Dossier
ading
Wading
The drain in the shower is clogged 
Again. I can imagine a weatherman 
On a local newscast, in a voice louder 
Than his sportcoat, predicting a flash flood 
In the bathroom of 412 Elm.W
The suds and water stagnate 
Around my feet as I shampoo, 
Rinse, repeat, just like the bottle 
Says -- like it would say if the label 
Hadnt already peeled off.
Its over my ankles 
Now. Dad always yelled 
About how long I stayed 
In the shower. He and the shampoo 
Decided no one needed that long. 
fTm twice as big as you, hed say, 
But it takes me half as long.
In a strange way he was proud 
Of how quickly he could wash 
Himself, or how he could make 
One pair of shoes last so long.
I never understood why, but 
If he were here now, Ill bet 
The water wouldnt even 
Have time to cover his feet.
E. M. B.
A
ING

---------------------------------------------------

the easter poem
I wish I could die in different colors 
first in pink 
ike marshmellow rabbits 
oft and so, so sweet 
en in green 
ike piles of straw
lipping through the hand of someone young 
ite would be nice 
ike eggs before the dye 
jerfect
iut I will die in black 
ke everyone else 
licorice
t the bottom of the basket
E
*
Ma
BMA
I am in Egypt and Mesopotamia
Water women carry jugs to the river
gold bracelets crowd their olive skin
men stand silent on the banks
like mummies
The women dine
with onyx and emerald
at the dinner table
the mummies have no teeth
drinking the Nile with straws
I hear the sound of one hundred monkeys
typing every page of every book
inside the British Museum

---------------------------------------------------

10 Dossier
SIGNING UPV-.-.V.
Up to age thirteen the most radical thing I 
was involved in was secretly ignoring the trim 
around the bushes behind the Clarkes' swim
ming pool. I knew Mrs. Clarke never checked, 
and every week she paid me the six bucks 
anyway, one hand placing the bills in my palm 
while the other's fingers pressed into my 
breastbone. I didn't think she could speak to me 
without pushing on my breastbone, sort of an 
aggressive "let me tell you..." She would tell 
me all about one person or another, then she'd 
always invite me swimming, so I never 
bothered with the trim.
One Saturday that year she had me cut 
their lawn in the morning, even though it didn't 
really need it; I usually did it on Mondays. But 
this was the day of the last 'Block Party' of the 
summer, held jointly by the Clarkes and their 
next door neighbors, the Masons. After finish
ing the yard, once again skipping the trim, I took 
a dip and remember feeling really good, all 
alone in the pool. I can still hear all the sounds: 
they felt cool as the water. Wind rode through 
the trees with the calls of birds and dogs. Mrs. 
Clarke and a few other mothers smoked on the 
back porch, their glass mugs of iced-coffee tin
kling between bursts of concerted laughter. 
And a dee-jay was belting out song titles from 
the portable radio next to Charlene's beach 
towel. Charlene was one of Mrs. Clarke's 
daughters. She lay sunbathing on the deck by 
the pool's edge, stomach down, the plastic clip 
of her top undone for an even tan. A telephone 
rang, doubly muffled by the walls of the house 
and my clogged ears, and as one of the mothers 
scraped her chair in answer, I dropped back 
underwater.
Pushing hard off one wall I swam down, 
enjoying the bubbles my legs made cutting 
through the water. The bubbles disturbed the 
constant hum of the filter, creating an under
water soundtrack sound, like on those tv shows 
about scuba divers. At the far wall I rose quickly 
to the surface, took a breath, and spun back 
down into my bubbles. I started for the first 
wall, taking the low route, my hands gliding 
over the pool's bottom. Floating up I saw 
through the wall of water, past the rim of the 
pool, where Charlene now stood against the 
sun. She was all triangles: legs spread, hands 
on hips. She, like most of us, had been 
impressed by those female gymnasts in the 
Olympics, so she held her back, elbows, and 
knees forever taut with energy. Standing there, 
she looked as if she'd just dismounted from the
uneven parallel bars. I popped out of the water 
and the muted sounds funneled loudly in the 
open air. Charlene's feet were within reach; I 
thought of grabbing her ankles, pulling her in, 
but stopped. Her feet were brown and padded, 
like her body. She was sixteen, and wore a 
yellow two-piece to cover her breasts and bot
tom. Below her breasts untanned skin pushed 
out like slices of coconut.
"Your mom's on the phone," she said.
I remembered: be home by noon. It was 
Sign-Up Day for the midget football league, and 
it all started at one o'clock. I ducked back under 
the surface and slid along the bottom to the 
blue steps in the shallow end. I stepped out, 
shaking, and grabbed my towel from one of the 
lawn chairs. I knew Charlene was very muscle
conscious, with her straight back and flexed 
calves, so being even thinner than she was I 
rushed to pull on my tee-shirt.
Charlene knew I was signing up. 'The 
school team starts up Monday," she said. "I'm 
going out for cheerleader. What are you going 
to play?"
I had felt so good in the pool. Now I 
scratched my wrist and drew one knee up to 
cover the other leg. I had this nervous habit of 
folding in on myself, as if I could withdraw and 
disappear. I looked like a child leaning into his 
mother's legs. I didn't know what position to 
play; my thoughts hadn't run that far. I'd never 
played organized football, just pick-up games 
around the neighborhood. I didn't even know if I 
wanted to play. My father sort of convinced me 
to join, reciting arguments as he read the even
ing paper. He said it would do me good, it would 
get me into shape and teach me how to work 
with a team. He said it helped him a lot when he 
was a boy. "I don't know," I said, answering 
Charlene's question. "Maybe some position in 
the backfield. I'm pretty small."
"Don't you worry about small," she told 
me. "Football gives guys the most delicious 
shoulders. I think you'll love it."
At the porch the mothers were talking and 
drinking again. No one was on the phone. 
"Your mommy just called, dear," said Mrs. 
Clarke. Her left hand stretched towards me, 
reaching in vain for my breastbone. I was sur
prised she could get the words out without 
touching me. "She wants you home now, 
Paulie."
Boxed in the 'way back' of my father's 
Country Squire, I felt the comfort of my sum
mertime tree fort, hidden in the woods
between Cow Creek and the new housing 
development. The two long side-windows of 
the car magnified the heat of the sun, but a 
strong current of cooler air passed from the 
front windows to the tailgate, keeping my back 
cool as I faced out the rear of the wagon. It was 
Saturday everywhere. We drove through Buch
anan, past gas stations and shopping plazas,If 
where people milled in happy weekend confu
sion. Radio announcements hissed from pores 
of green vinyl over the wheel wells, cheerful 
men speaking of hardware, sporting goods, and;: 
banks. The radio called one o'clock, and a cho-! 
rus of children sang about Dairy Queen.
The car passed into a wooded area along a 
smaller road, where beams of light flickered on 
and off in the trees. Now that we were on ou? 
way, I wished I could go back home to work on 
that tree fort. Saturdays were good for it | 
because the construction workers were away j 
from the housing sites, and my friends and 11 
could walk off with all the wood scraps we 
needed. I could work on it all afternoon, tearing 
up my hands and legs, opening wounds with-1 
out even realizing it. At night I was always J 
surprised to discover dozens of scratches anrf 
bruises over my limbs: I never remembered 
getting hurt.
My father pushed the cigarette lighter intoj 
the dashboard. "Paul," he said. "Come up herej 
for a second?" He turned off the radio. I left the] 
back of the wagon, rolling up beside him. 
"Paul," he repeated, sucking in to light up. 'I 
want you to know that it makes no difference to 
me, or your mother, whether you make th 
team, or even if you try out at all." He exhaled 
smoke and shifted in his seat as we rounded a 
bend in the road. "If you want to do it, we re 
behind you all the way. We'll always support 
you. But football's not the most important thing 
in the world. I'm not sure what is."
"It's okay Dad, I want to play." 
'That's fine. Butbelieve me when I tell j 
you thisplaying football is a very small part S 
life, and it's really not worth doing if you don t 
enjoy it." He turned to face me. "No fooling."
We pulled into the Booster Club Recrea 
tion Area and I quickly lowered my chin 
towards the window and tried humming in my 
deepest voice, almost a growl. My voice was 
quite high. The car stopped and my father, noW 
enthusiastic, turned in his seat. "All set, son?'
"Sure," I said, my voice creaking. I climbed] 
out and he said he'd be back to pick me up"1*? 
couldn't believe it  in three hours. I jogged

---------------------------------------------------

stiffly, in new plastic cleats, to the equipment 
Ished, where the line was already sixty boys 
1 long. Immediately I felt silly because most of the 
other candidates had worn football-type jer
seys: 12, 44, New York Jets. I had unthinkingly 
ji plucked the top tee-shirt from my drawer, oneI
 of those big yellow smiley faces. It must have 
been the last shirt my mother folded before 
stacking them away. I realized that I should 
have thought to choose the most suitable shirt: 
first impressions are very important. I took a 
place in line, and looking up I saw our station 
I wagon through the trees, my station wagon 
 rolling peacefully back to my waiting home. II
 don't think I had ever heard my father say "no 
fooling" before. He sounded like me.
Up ahead in line three of my friends from 
| school were joking loudly about Melissa JenI kins, a girl whom each had eyed at their swim 
jclub. "One swimmer, man," said my friend 
'ijoug Murphy. "Last year, she was like this" 
ran an open hand over his chest, "and now,
Iwhoa!" All three of them giggled, crossing their 
arms tightly.
I was about to call out to them when a 
scrawny kid took the last place in line, right 
behind me. I didn't know him at all. He had a 
wide grayish head with short hair and a tight 
mouth. "Hey," he whispered, and stuck his fin
gers in his pants pockets. Next to him, I felt big. 
At the same time I didn't want to be seen with 
him; I realized he was poison. The coach might 
see the two of us, lump us together, and file us 
away in the 'cut' bin, never giving me a second 
thought. The kid mumbled a weak, nervous 
laugh. I had to get rid of him.
"What are you going out for," I huffed. 
"Waterboy?"
His lips bent to a smile. "Nah," he said 
nicely. "Whatever position seems best."
I looked away, and pretended to notice my 
friends for the first time. "Hey Doug!" Turning 
back to the scrawny kid, I said, "I'll see you later. 
I've got some buddies up ahead." He swung his
head around in a nod and mumbled another 
laugh, then flicked his fingers out of his pocket 
and waved good-bye.
I joined the others. Their shared laughter 
quieted when I stepped into their circle. Doug 
Murphy was a pretty good friend of mine, we 
made jokes together during the school year. 
"Hey, Sutton," he said. "You going out for footbalR" The other two kids snickered.
"Yeah, sure," I said, scratching my ribs. I 
was beginning to fold in on myself. I hated 
being called Sutton, even though my name is 
Paul Sutton. It wouldn't have bothered me so 
much if it weren't for that tv show, "Fill 'Er Up," 
with that dopey grease monkey named Kyle 
Sutton. A lot of times the kids at school would 
call me "Kal," imitating his goofy southern 
drawl. These three guys were buddies of mine, 
but now they were acting like tough football 
players, not school friends. They had been on 
the team last year, so I guess they figured it was 
funny that I decided to play this year. Competi

---------------------------------------------------

tion is bad for friendships.
Their sarcasm pretty much quieted me 
down. I got in line behind them, and just stood 
there looking down at my blue information 
card. The card was kind of embarrassing; it 
contained all the evidence of my childishness. 
My mom even helped me fill it out: it said I had 
got the mumps, been vaccinated for polio and 
TB, and suffered from allergies, but was physi
cally fit to play sports. It mentioned how fast my 
heart beat at the doctor's office, and guaran
teed that I was thirteen years old. The doctor 
and my father had signed it.
Why was that scrawny kid going out for 
football? Why didn't they just tell him? "Sorry 
boy, but you're wasting your time here, foot
ball's not for everybody. This league helps mold 
boys into men, yes, and instills character and 
self-confidence with the spirit of teamwork, but 
we do, after all, have a conference champion
ship to defend." That kid needed a Heath Kit, 
not a football helmet.
At the coaches' table, my heartbeat belied 
the information on the blue card. The coaches 
didn't seem too interested in me, just weighed 
me and pointed to the pile of equipment. First 
practice all we had to wear was a helmet and 
football pants. When everyone had gone 
through the line we gathered outside for a talk 
by the head coach, Coach Nardone. He was tall 
with rippling black hair, and his biceps bobbed 
up and down as he spoke. He had us all kneel 
uncomfortably on one knee, and said that if we 
liked doing push-ups the thing to do was sit on 
the new helmets the Booster Club had donated. 
He told us football was a game of sweat and 
pain, so we should start enjoying pain right 
now because we were going to become inti
mately familiar with it soon enough. He ges
tured as he talked, throwing karate chops and 
diagramming boxes in the air. He told us to 
think of the football field as sacred turf, and as$long as we were within the white lines we 
should consider nothing but how to do our 
assigned tasks correctly. He told us to go to bed 
at nine o'clock, and to forget about ice cream 
and soda pop. He said forget about the girls at 
the swim club, swimming was off limits 
because it leaves winning bodies weary. These, 
he said lifting a cardboard box, were our Bibles: 
the Playbooks, capital P, and if we nmi any
thing else in the next three weeks before school 
it would be because we had already memorized 
the entire Playbook. He told us the time for 
quitters to leave was now,' because fbr
summer-soft children the first practice was 
always the hardest. When no one made a 
move, he asked the other coaches if they had 
anything to add, but they just chuckled and 
rocked on their heels and said no, they would 
rather lead push-ups and s/i-ups and lifts 
than talk to a bunch of kneeling schoolgirls.
Before we formed rows for calisthenics we 
had to pick up our Playbooks, and I fell in line 
right behind that scrawny kid I had talked with 
earlier. He winced up at me with his chin down 
and placed his oversized helmet on his head. 
"Good luck," he said, and rolled his bulging 
eyes inside the heavy plastic cage like a puppet.
Nightfall is surprising in August. Suddenly 
it was too dark in the Mason's sideyard for 
volleyball, and the last visious game ended: the 
fathers, aided by the gift of the spike, beat their 
children 15-11. While the day had been thin 
and official, evening turned out pot-bellied. 
Back-slaps and deep coughs of exhaustion 
erupted as we, the men and their sons, served 
ourselves up to the kegs.
"My boy's got fullback locked up," cried 
Mr. Hewitt. The men were talking about SignUp. "He was third on the team last year, and the 
top two boys are up in the next league now." I 
was over at the kids' keg, the birch beer, filling 
up a cup. My dad was sandwiched by Mr. 
Hewitt and Mr. Mason, in front of the real beer. 
Sign-Up was definitely the big news of the day;
I wondered if they hadn't picked today for the 
Block Party because of it. The men acted fes
tive, their voices strained with enthusiasm.
"Coach Nardone's a helluva fellow," cried 
Mr. Mason. "He churns out some fine young 
men."
"He certainly does," agreed Mr. Hewitt. He 
squinted at my father confidentially. "Your boy 
doesn't play ball, does he, Bob?"
"Why, yes," cried my father. "He signed up 
today."
"Excellent!" Mr. Hewitt slapped my 
father's back. "I always did like Paul."
My dad rubbed his belly and sucked down 
some beer. He looked crowded, but pleased to 
be discussing midget football with the men. I 
often pictured him to be pregnant. I imagined I 
could, by some slick turn of nature, crawl into 
his belly to hide. He was a lot heavier than I 
was, but we both had the same left-parted hair 
and wide cheekbones. Now he lit a cigarette 
and exhaled a cloud over the group.
I took a manly swig of birch and swaggered 
to poblside. Charlene Clarke was singling
between conversations, carrying a snack tray 
like a cigarette girl. "Why Paul," she said. "How 
are you this evening?" I could tell she was 
feeling grown up.
"Okay," I said. "A little sore: sit-ups."
"Sit-ups are a wonderful excercise," she 
said. 'There's nothing better on a man than a 
well-defined stomach." She winked at me and 
bounced away to the next group.
The pool was empty, but people stood con
versing on the surrounding patio. I heard Nicky 
Hewitt, the fullback son of Mr. Hewitt, describ
ing the coach's speech to a group of attentive 
mothers. He was telling them how we weren't 
allowed to go swimming because it leaves win
ning bodies weary. Mrs. Clarke breathed in 
happily and reached for his breastbone. "Well 
then, Nicholas," she said, "I hereby forbid you 
admittance to this swimming pool."
I heard an explosion of laughter back at the 
kegs. Mr. Mason was fading back to pass; his 
beer was the football. "I was trapped," he cried, 
wedging himself between the kegs. My father 
was shaking his head and grinning.
"Charlene's been getting calls," said Mrs. 
Clarke, "from varsity football players. She's 
going to be cheerleader this year."
Mr. Mason had eluded the kegs, and now 
swung his arm forward, slopping beer over the 
grass "Mitchell grabs it at the goal line," he 
screamed, "and we win the game, sixnothing." I
It was a warm night. I set my cup down at a 
table and pulled my shirt overhead. I felt like 
going swimming. I lay the shirt down, leaving 
the smiley face deformed by wrinkles, as if 
suddenly aged. "I'll never forget that as long as I 
live," said Mr. Mason.
A hand shot towards me as I pushed by 
Nicky Hewitt. "Why Paul Sutton," squealed 
Mrs. Clarke. "Where on earth are you going? I 
side-stepped the group and climbed or. the div
ing board.
"Bob," said Mr. Hewitt. "What's Paul 
doing?" My father looked up to me, leaned 
back, and crossed his arms. "I'm not sure, 
Glenn," he said.
Mrs. Clarke waved her arm desperately, 
"What are you doing up there? What in the 
world will Coach Nardone have to say about 
you swimming not five hours after he forbade 
it? Why Nicholas here was just telling me that 
you boys"
I didn't hear the rest; the whole party disap
peared when I plunged into the cool hum of the 
pool. Immersed in my own bubbles, I held my 
breath as long as I could before once again 
breaking the surface of the water.
Roger W. G lies
