Last weeks unpredictable weather left at least one daffodil celebrating Easter Sunday in the snow, while two students, obvious
ly expecting rain, marched along unsmitten.
Presidential hopefuls to answer questionsCandidates to debate
kibo to 
lose for ummer 
epairs
y KAREN GRAY
rton News Editor
Physical Plants excavation of Skibos 
verely damaged sewer system pipes will 
use the building to close for part of the
-mer.
In compliance with health and safety 
andards, the building will be closed from 
ay 14 to June 24, forcing services and acvities in Skibo to temporarily relocate or
ose.
The building gets used a lot. People will 
ve to find an alternate space, said Stu
nt Activities Director Anne Witchner. Acrding to Witchner, Morewood Gardens
11 offer an alternative dining service, and 
e Art Store will move some of its supplies 
another area.
WRCT, the campus radio station, plans 
move as well and carry on its usual sumer programming.
All we need is a room somewhere on cam, commented WRCT disc jockey Noran Welk. Well take the equipment from 
e air studio and maybe a thousand 
ords. People shouldnt notice a difference 
the air, although we may not be able to 
any production work.
Physical Plant Director Mike Corletti said 
at the sewer system replacement project, 
'ch will cost between $65,000 and
50,000 to complete, is in response to the 
creased volume of people and business in 
bo. Although some emergency repair 
rk was done last summer, the greatest porn of the system is twenty years old and 
erits complete replacement, according to 
rletti.
He added that any tentative plans for the 
pansion of the building itself will be well 
ed by the project.
This Issue:
ews
eet the candidates...............page 2
Per 19.....................................page 3
tures
aster plan................................page 7
aVoral candidates................page 7
tertainment
sus Christ Superstar.....page 13
e Sagger's Wife..............page 16
orts
^ball preview..........pages 20-25
^ming nationals............page 19
boriai
ltion hike.............................page 28
pages 32-33
By AMY LIPKE
Tartan Staffwriter
Student Government Presidential can
didates will participate in a Presidential 
Debate on Wednesday, April 10, at 4:30 pm 
in the Wherrett Room.
Each candidate briefly outlined his/her 
aims as Student Government President. 
Peter Cohen, a Junior Social Science major, 
is a Senator from H&SS and chairman of the 
General Campus Information Committee. If 
elected, he wants first to get students more 
interested and aware of the issues on cam
pus. A weekly Tartan column and WRCT 
talk show are means to this end. Stressing 
the need for students to get involved in cam
pus activities, he also intends to try to unify 
the diverse groups which compose the seven 
colleges.
A third goal is to form a committee of 
representatives of major student organiza
tions in order to involve students of all in
terests in dealing with the administration. 
Finally, Cohen intends to look into both the 
nine percent tuition increase planned for 
next year and auxilliary services such as the 
bookstore and food service in order to see 
whether these services are profit-oriented 
and whether theres any way they could per
form better than they are.
Karen Lee, a Junior majoring in Industrial 
Management, considers her single most im
portant aim getting effective communica
tion between students, organizations, and 
administration. Student dissatisfaction with 
administrative decisions, she feels, is partly 
due to the fact that students dont know the 
motives behind those decisions. As students, 
we (the Senate) should ask the question, 
why? .. .Were in a blackbecause we dont 
ask
Lee wants to make the Senate a more 
diverse group, possibly through delegating 
student senators by class and department 
rather than just by colleges. Diversifying the 
Senate would also contribute to increased 
communication among student groups and 
help to make the Senate a place they can go 
with their problems.
Lee envisions an auxilliary services com
mittee to investigate such services as Entropy
and the Bookstore, furthering her aim of 
representing the students. As Student 
Government President, I dont want to use 
the word I, I want to use the word we. We 
the students of CMU.
By KAREN GRAY
Tartan News Editor
The role of the Software Engineering In
stitute (SEI) in national and local affairs was 
the subject of a CMU Peace Alliance 
sponsored forum last Wednesday evening.
Four panelists presented divergent views 
on the SEI contract signed by CMU and the 
Department of Defense (DoD) in early 
January. CMU Adjunct Professor Thomas 
Kerr, who moderated the event, then open
ed the floor to questions and statements 
from the audience.
Officials of the University administration 
and the SEI were invited to participate in 
the forum but chose to decline. However, 
Kerr stressed at the beginning of the event 
that their absence would not seriously im
pede the Forums presentation of a wellrounded picture: We will attempt to be 
fair.
Panelist Ernie Alieva, a CMU Philosophy 
professor and Peace Alliance member, 
presented some facts about the operation of 
the SEI.
In a state of what Alieva called V miautonomous research, CMU-managed 
employees of the Defense Department will 
focus on the problems of the coordination, 
production and revision of computer pro
grams, or software to produce software.
(The work) is supposed to be one or two 
steps removed from direct military use, 
Alieva said. But yes, there will probably be 
classified research. However, one or more 
persons have given contradictory statements 
about whats going on.
He added that although the SEI would
Seth Kaplan, a freshman Econ/Math ma
jor and President of Student Body, contends 
that communication is something very 
much lacking on this campus. . .the Presicontinued on page 5
bring leading scientists to the CMU com
munity, it is unclear whether students would 
get the opportunity to work with any of 
them.
Panelist Robert Frederking, who is com
pleting his doctorate in Computer Science 
at CMU, said he was pleased that CMU had 
gotten a no classified contract with the 
DoD, but would like to see steps taken to 
keep it that way: Were concerned about 
what happens in five years when the contract 
gets renewed.
As a member of the Computer Scientists 
for Social Responsibility, a group of 500 
computer scientists concerned about the im
pact of computer technology on society, 
Frederking spoke of the impact of the 
militarys usual desire for secrecy on the 
commitment to a free flow of information.
Although CMUs official position is that 
University members should not handle 
classified information, the DoD has the right 
to a 30 day review of all findings, enabling 
them to classify research after it has been 
done.
(The DoD) could classify something 
before it can be disseminated, said Frederk
ing, adding that graduate students who sud
denly had their theses classified by the DoD 
DoD would be unable to receive credit for 
their research.
Panelist Michael Wiener, a graduate stu
dent in Physics at CMU, said that although 
the SEIs involvement with national defense 
systems would be indirect, this does not ex
empt (the SEI) or the university for making 
tools that bring the world closer to war."
The DoD received a blank check, he concontinued on page 3
Forum examines SEI's 
national defense role

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2-The Tartan-April 9, 1985
i ask them 
All I need
getting more organization.' 
?r in nrovidine more events
administrators
the current orga"
Presidential Platforms
Peter Cohen Seth Kaplan Karen Lee
By serving as a Student Senator since last March, I 
have realized that if student representatives care 
enough, and work hard enough, life can be made easier 
at CMU. As Student Government President, I will work 
very hard to serve you. However, in addition to serving 
the student body, I shall attempt to bring to CMU a 
fresh attitude and new ideas about how to improve stu
dent life at CMU.
For the last six months Ive been Chairman of the 
Senate General Campus and Information Committee. 
As Chairman, Ive met with administrators and staff 
from all parts of CMU. From Dr. Cyert, Dr. Crecine, 
Deans Cox and Walter, to Physical Plant, Hunt Library, 
and the Security department, Ive worked to solve your 
problems. When students complained about snow not 
being shoveled on weekends, signs being tom down by 
Physical Plant, library study rooms potentially being 
closed, possible biases in the student disciplinary pro
cess, and the dangerous traffic intersections throughout 
campus, I took successful action to solve these problems. 
I was there to serve you. Furthermore, I am currently 
planning a protest of President Reagans proposed 
financial aid cuts. Also, I am a member of the Campus 
Pub Committee, in which we are planning a student 
social center for the Highlander Room at Skibo.
As Student Government President I will implement 
many different ideas about how to improve life at CMU. 
These ideas will rely strongly on my experience and en
thusiasm for their successful implementation. For 
example:
Students should be made aware that they do have in
put into issues at CMU and that they can affect results. 
As President I will work to accomplish this. In addi
tion to writing a weekly article for the Tartan, I would 
also like to host a weekly radio show on WRCT. 
Students could call up and suggest ways of improving 
life around here. And periodically, an administrator 
could join me on the radio and respond to questions 
and complaints. Students have a strong voice in issues; 
as President I will make sure that voice comes through.
As Student Government President, I will work to 
unify the campus. By establishing a committee con
sisting of representatives from different colleges and 
departments, we could work together to plan activities 
for all students, and to increase contact between the col
leges. I will also work to increase coordination between 
the different student organizations on campus. By 
establishing a committee containing representatives of 
the major student organizations we would meet regular
ly to discuss ways of improving student life.
These are some of the basic ideas that I will imple
ment as President. Not all changes will occur overnight, 
but weve got to start somewhere. By combining my ex
perience in solving your problems along with my ideas 
and a strong desire to be receptive to your ideas, I feel 
that I will make a good Student Government President.
This is not a typical campaign speech, so dont stop 
reading! I know you people are sick and tired of hear
ing all the same promises of experience, leadership, 
lower tuition, and unifying the campus. Ill be honest! 
There are problems and there are t>roblems\ Yes, I agree 
100% that tuition should be lower, but lets face facts, 
the minds of Warner Hall are not going to be chang
ed. Students have tried for years to no avail. There are, 
however, plenty of problems on this campus that can 
and should be solved by the President of Student 
Government.
The foremost problem is the lack of communication 
between Senate and the constituency. It is the Presi
dents responsibility to help bridge this gap. I will ac
complish this with a WRCT call-in show, many office 
hours(where anyone is welcome), and a regular column 
in the Tartan.
One of the Presidents most important tasks is to add 
alcohol to the student pub opening up in the fall. I have 
been actively arguing to add alcohol to the pubs menu, 
of which I am in charge. A vote for me is a vote to con
tinue this fight straight to Warner Hall.
One very important problem that faces this campus 
that doesnt receive nearly as much attention as it should 
is safety. Students are becoming less and less secure 
about walking home at night, especially if they live offcampus. The so-called Escort service on campus is 
pitiful! The one very important issues on which the 
President can apply pressure is this! Either shape up the 
Escort service or bring on the Guardian Angels! I would 
much rather see CMU security or students solve this pro
blem, but if it cant be handled properly, the safety of 
you, the students, comes first. Something must be 
done....
There are a couple of other problems that face 
students. First, the student and administration should 
work together, not against each other. The concept of 
trust would help all those involved. And secondly, one 
problem that faces all students is the high price of oncampus stores. There has to be a more effective way to 
run the on-campus monopolies (The Book Store, The 
Co-op, etc. .. .). Their prices are astronomical. For the 
amount we pay in tuition, should we be charged such 
high prices? This is something I think the President can 
actually affect.
I hope all this has convinced you to go out and vote 
for me. If not, I will keep trying. Stop me as I walk by, 
call me up, come to the debate, whatever. .. . You may 
think your vote doesnt count much, but I believe it can 
make a difference. It takes just thirty seconds to vote 
and possibly change the course of history.
Come to the
PRESIDENTIAL DEBATE
tomorrow, April 10, in the Wherrett Room at 4:30 pm
photos by Olvc Peersen
WHY? IS THERE JUSTIFICATION? These are 
questions I will ask the administration before they make 
decisions that concern our student body. The goal in 
asking these questions is to establish more effective chan
nels of communication between you and the administra
tion. I want the administration to listen and consider 
your views and feelings. In turn, I want you to unders
tand why the administration took a certain action and 
question them if the case is warranted. The key to 
fective communication is a two-way street. Both sides 
must have some understanding of why the other feels 
a certain way, requesting changes only after giving ade 
quate reasoning. As President, I will be the primary and 
effective liaison between you and the administration.
I want to present a united stand, representing a we 
instead of an I. In taking a we approach, your views 
will have more of an impact on the adminstration that 
that of an I approach. To accomplish this, you need 
to know what is going on in the administration. I will 
use The Tartan and WRCT more effectively as the ma 
jor communicators of information, but also use the other 
60 organizations and Resident Assistants to help 
disseminate the information you need in 
and asking the adminstration why. I will also 
what their members or residents concerns are. 
to know is your view. I will also place Student 
ment Suggestion Boxes in Skibo, Donner, and 
Morewood, and have myself available to you at least 
hours per week at times convenient to your schedules. 
This will give more of you a chance to express your view 
directly to me. Proposed actions to be taken:
- Create an Auxiliary Service Committee to voice your 
concerns about such services as the Bookstore, Art Store, 
Co-Op, and Entropy.
- Improve campus life 
to sponsor and work together in providing more 
for the whole campus.
- Continue Bill McCormicks role in 
needs that are addressed in the universitys $200 
capital drive, such as new wet labs for chemistry 
biology, renovation of Skibo, and building of a 
athletic center.
- Inform you of how student activities fees are 
as well as other important issues.
- Get more diversified group of senators. Ha| 
departments, classes, and more organiza*1 
represented as well as colleges.
-Evaluate Humanities and Social Sciences, IM. 
Fine Arts students career placement needs.
- Assess the needs of commuter students. 
QUALIFICATIONS:
- Student Representative to the CMU Trustees
- Member of University Disciplinary Comnutt#
- Good Working relationship with
- Good relationship with many of the 
zitions, Resident Assistants, students and faculty
- Resident Assistant  .
- Active member and committee chairperson 
organizations
- Attendance in Student Senate, SDC, AB, ^ 
Spring Carnival Meetings
- Knowledge of campus and of how to get things
- Enthusiastic, energetic and hard working

---------------------------------------------------

April 9, 1985The TartanPage 3
Panel gives views
)S Director Bob Choate has announced the new Super 19 meal plan.
ew meal plan offers 
te night options
LAURA GOLOWICH
i Staffwriter
text fall UDS will introduce a new meal 
r. the Super 19. The plan, offered in 
iition to the regular five, ten, 15 and 19 
lal plans, will not give students more 
|als. Instead, the Super 19 will give 
dents an extra chance each day to eat a 
|al.
lie plan offers students 26 rather than 
opportunities in one week to eat their 19 
als. One more meal period will be 
lilable every evening from 8 pm to mid|ht. During this time students can puran additional meal with a din/evening cash allowance.
)S decided to enact the Super 19, aciing to Director of UDS Bob Choate, 
[ause many students felt they didnt have 
[quate opportunity to eat all 19 meals.
A student might miss breakfast, Choate said, 
and then get hungry at ten pm but not be 
able to use the meal he had missed.
Student responses to the Super 19 are 
varied. One student thought the plan of
fered students greater flexibility. Another 
students reaction was more skeptical: It 
seems kind of silly to spend more money just 
to use all your meals, he said.
Students on the Super 19 will be able to 
eat up to four mealsbreakfast, lunch, din
ner, and an evening snackon a weekday, 
and up to three meals on weekends.
The Super 19 plan will cost $88 more than 
the regular 19 meal plan, because students 
on the Super 19 are expected to miss fewer 
meals. If the plan is successful, Choate said, 
UDS may decide to expand the five, ten, and 
15 plans as well.
continued from page 1
continued, adding that DODs discretion 
over the release of information would leave 
the vital exchange of ideas curtailed, other 
areas neglected, and the independence of 
university research curtatiled.
Calling the Administrations view of the 
SEIs possible economic benefits overly op
timistic, Wiener said that the bulk of 
workers would come from outside Pitt
sburgh, and dependence on military spen
ding results in a boom or bust economy. 
Panelist Molly Rush of the Thomas 
Merlon Center said that the concept of pro
ducing software to produce software for 
possible military use will accelerate the 
development of the idea of distance and 
separation from ones target. She cited the 
Armys interest in the development of an 
autonomous land vehicle as one example.
The Programs wont be used to help the 
Pentagon keep track of its coffeepots, con
tinued Rush. [The SEI] will be involved in 
tools that make tools. That is precisely what 
the Pentagon needs.
Audience response to the panels presen
tation varied. One Computer Science 
undergraduate asked, Whats wrong with 
software for software? If were going to have 
an arms race, why not have the best?
Another audience member wanted to 
know the difference between CMUs dealings 
with the DOD and private corporations such 
as IBM and Westinghouse. Frederking 
replied that the major difference was in the 
levels of secrecy required for military as op
posed to nonmilitary research.
The SEI is here, commented another au
dience member. Our job is to see that 
research is reviewed by the university com
munity, not just conducted by Computer 
Science professionals.
When asked after the Forum about future 
action concerning the SEI, Peace Alliance 
member Chris Johnston, who helped 
organize the event, said that several options 
present themselves.
We could develop a board which would 
analyze every project that went into the SEI. 
On the radical side, we could view (the Ad
minstration) as stonewalling. There could 
possibly be civil disobedience, Johnston said.
New radioactive materials officer appointed
By KAREN GRAY
Tartan News Editor
Peter Collopy has been appointed Radia
tion Safety and Environmental Health Of
ficer for CMU.
Part of Collopys job, he explained, is to 
uphold Nuclear Regulatory Commission 
regulations on the storage and use of lowlevel radioactive materials used in campus 
research.
Most of the radioactive materials, which 
are used for such projects as DNA sequencing, have relatively short half-lives, decay
ing down to a stable state within six months. 
However, Collopy does institute certain 
preventive measures to make sure the 
material stays m the lab!'
Collopy said that while graduate students 
comprise almost all of those who work with 
radioactive ^materials, undergraduates from 
the Physics and Chemistry departments oc
casionally work with them as well.
Collopy is a certified health physicist and 
holds both a bachelors and masters degree 
in environmental engineering.
Radar 
Systems
Raytheon EDL is an internationally respected leader in the 
research, design and development of advanced radar sys
tems for U.S. and International government agencies. The 
individuals we seek to join our hew Al laboratory will be 
enhancing our reputation in this area and helping to formu
late our future directions through exploratory development 
of expert systems in the following areas:
Signal Processing
Target Classification
ECM Recognition
Management Decision Aids
Distributed Real-Time Systems Implementation
Fault Diagnostics
Image Recognition
Raytheon EDL is one of the largest, most successful and 
fastest growing divisions of Raytheon Company and our 
Artificial Intelligence exploratory development program rep
resents one of our most important long-term programs. The 
successful candidates who join us will also become an 
important part of Raytheons overall commitment to techni
cal excellence, and join a tradition of technological achieve
ments that range from the first mass production of radar 
systems and the first successful guided missile flight, to the 
first electronic depth sounder, the first laser signal bounced 
off the moon and the discovery of microwave cooking.
If interested in Raytheon EDLs Al radar systems opportuni
ties, please forward your resume and a cover letter outlining 
vour Al interests to:
Mr. Robert Beaudet, Dept. Alf Raytheon Company, 
Eauloment Development Laboratories, 528 Bos
ton Post Road, Sudbury, MA 01776. U.S. Citizen
ship required. An Equal Opportunity Employer.
The Equipment Development Laboratories of 
Fortune-100 Raytheons Equipment Division are 
seeking candidates to join a small, startup organi
zation of engineers and scientists researching Al 
technology for application to a wide range of 
radar systems applications.
Raytheon

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanApril 9, 1985
A Phi O 
kicks off 
new Carnival 
event
By LAURA GOLOWICH
Tartan Staffwriter
A Phi O will kick off its first annual 
Charitable Chairs game on Saturday, April 
20, at Spring Carnival. The event, a musical 
chairs extravaganza with over 500 chairs, will 
take place at 12:30 pm on the Cut.
Were hoping this will become as big a 
tradition as buggy, said Kim Jerpe, Cochairman of the event. Prizes for the game 
will be donated by local businesses. All pro
ceeds will benefit Childrens Hospital of 
Pittsburgh.
Registration for Charitable Chairs will be 
held during the week of Spring Carnival. All 
students are encouraged to attend the event 
and bring their friends, and to make sure 
their organizations are represented in the 
game as well.
Student Senate Minutes.
The meeting was called to order at 7:04, 
Preseat:
Bianco, Cohen. Cramer, DeBroff, DeMelio, 
Goldstein, Harmon, Hynes, lck.es. Jagerski, 
King, McCormick, Miller, Mukherjee, Piscitello. 
Salley, Solier, Taylor, Weller, Brooks, Kissner.
'
Absent:
Bach (excused), Beit (excused), Chu Dorsey, 
NicMs, Novak, Garrity, Holtibaugh.
President:
Architects are here masterplanning the next 
five years at CMU  everyone is invited to check 
things out this week in the Highlander Room.
Rules:
Hang up those posters.
Revisions to election guidelines: 1st: Add to 
audit winners* spendings to make sure they meet 
set limits.
2nd: Presidential candidates allowed $150, 
senators $55. Receipts of purchases, estimates 
of contributions, must be handed in to Election 
Board the first day of elections,
3rd: No campaigning within a 60 foot radius 
of polls  includes first floor of Skibo and the 
Cut, not including the fence.
4th: Candidates may run for President and 
senator simultaneously.
5th: Two polling places  Grey Matter and
Cut in front of Skibo.
Vote to approve revisions. Passes.
Proposed revision of constitution. Tabled.
Three candidates for President  Karen Lee, 
Peter Cohen, Seth Kaplan  and fifteen for 
senators.
Motion to vote for acceptance of Voices 
United choir as a nonfunded organization. Vote 
for acceptance. Vote passes.
Student Guidebook needs peoples opinio^ 
GCScI:
Complaints about dirtiness of library have 
moved Pete to vast with the head of this facili
ty. The question of study rooms will also be
Academic Affairs:
Proposal for addition to 
in Student Handbook.
section
Food and fti&ee next Friday afternoon on the
... ' ^J < "> *; r
General Discussion:
Diana Bianco: Questioned the interest being 
** * *  on '*
expected register for the course and if resources 
are available.
In the event another departments course is 
required for the parent departments major, 
other than college requirements and electives, 
the parent department shall hold pre
registration for the second department courses 
and present 1st of students to the second depart
ment before registration. The second depart
ment will reserve places in the courses for the 
students and officially register the students as 
they arrive during set registration days.
A student shall be given registration priority 
in the following order if the course is in the stu
dents a) parent major or designated track, b) 
double major, c) required minor, d) required 
department elective group, e) required college 
elective group, and f) college. Within all of the 
above classifications, students shall be given 
priority according to class.
Vote to pass. Passes.
Core Curriculum Surveys still coming in.
work it would take Housing to figure out and 
return each students money.
Seth Kaplan: The pub design committee is 
working on the kitchen now and funiture will 
be decided upon next week.
Eric Rocher: Parking rates will increase 15% 
next year.
Cindy Taylor: There will be an Educational 
Affairs meeting to discuss possible double 
degrees in MCS and H&SS and the Computer 
Science department, which is seeking to: become 
its own college, a free-floating department, or 
be divested between H&SS and CiT.
Announcements:
Emergency GC&I meeting now.
Hang up debate post es s!
Academic Affairs, Monday 5:15.
Finance, Thursday at 7:00, Monday at 7:00, 
Thursday at 7:00.
The meeting was adjourned at 7:43.Liabilities hait campus liquor sales
NORTH DARTMOUTH, MA (CPS) - In 
a trend which many experts claim could 
soon spread nationwide, all Massachusetts 
state colleges and universities are being 
forced to halt campus alcohol sales because 
they cant find an insurance company to 
carry their alcohol liability policies.
It could make college bars and on-campus 
liquor sales obsolete.
No other state is in as severe a position 
as Massachusetts, yet, notes Mark
Rosenberg of the Insurance Information In
stitute (HI). But its a growing problem 
around the country and it could easily 
become as severe in other areas.
The problem arose first at Southeastern 
Massachusetts University (SMU), when ad
ministrators recently learned their insurance 
broker couldnt locate a company willing to 
renew their alcohol liability insurance.
Such coverage protects the university,
campus bar employees, administrators, and 
regents from lawsuits connected with oncampus alcohol consumption.
SMU received notice its alcohol coverage 
would not be renewed at the end of March 
because insurance companies were getting 
out of the alcohol liability business.
The underwriters are simply no longer 
renewing any bar or club liability policies, 
explains Francis Gordon, director of aux
iliary services at SMU. Theyre getting out
of alcohol liability coverage except fo 
establishments with an 80/20 food-alcoho 
mix. And theres no way a campus bar 
serve that much food.
Only days after SMU learned its alcoh 
coverage would not be renewed, state cc 
leges throughout Massachusetts were to 
their alcohol policies would be cancel 
April 1st, 1985.
Because Massachusetts law requires sta 
continued on page
Friday, April 12 
10-4
Come and join the C-MU Computer Store in our 
one year anniversary celebration.
running demos 
exhibits 
specials 
free prizes 
and more
Vendors to be present:
IBM, Apple, Epson, HP, Verbatim, 
and others.

---------------------------------------------------

April 9, 1985The TartanPage 5
ebate Fewer Campuses sell alcohol
tinued from page 1 
t has a responsibility to represent all the 
ents. I stress the word all. He wants to 
er greater exchange between members of 
erent colleges and organizations through 
eeklyWRCT show and Tartan column, 
plan also stresses the issue of campus 
ty, suggesting improvements in such seras Escort. You cant find a more imnt topic than the safety of the students. 
inally, Kaplan calls himself a realist, emsizing that the Student Government 
ident is not omnipotent. 1 cant solve 
problem, but I believe that for almost 
problem, I can show the path to take. 
he campus community is encouraged to 
nd the debate and contribute to the 
ussion.
continued from page 4
schools to carry liability insurance before 
they can serve alcohol, on-campus alcohol 
sales in the state virtually have ended, Gor
don says.
Weve (SMU) already stopped selling 
alcohol here, he says, and the other 
schools will have to do the same thing real 
soon. Even without the state law, we 
couldnt afford to continue serving alcohol 
without liability insurance.
Experts say the lack of alcohol liability in
surance easily could spread to other states.
From what weve seen, insurance com
panies are very anxious to get out of the 
liability market in general, and alcohol 
liability coverage in particular, he says.
The reason, Fulton and other experts say, 
is a combination of tougher drinking laws,urke to develop financial aid rograms for GSIA students
haron A. Burke has been appointed 
tant director of admissions and finanaid at Camegie-Mellon Universitys 
duate School of Industrial Administra(GSIA).
her new position, Burke is responsible 
the administration and development of 
1 ncial aid programs for masters students 
SI A. Before joining GSIA, she was a 
ncial aid coordinator at Broward Com
ity College in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
Prior to that, she was a recruiter and finan
cial aid officer at the University of 
Pittsburgh.
Financial aid is becoming more complex 
and that is why we are pleased to have a pro
fessional like Sharon on board, said Ed
ward R. Mosier, GSIA assistant dean of 
placement, admissions and student affairs.
Burke, a native of Pittsburgh, is a 
graduate of The Pennsylvania State 
University.
increased liability of bars and taverns for the 
actions of. intoxicated patrons, and 
mushrooming court awards in alcoholrelated lawsuits.
In addition, 35 states now have dram 
shop laws that extend liability for alcoholrelated accidents to the parties that served 
liquor to the person who caused the acci
dent, explains Edward Hammond, vicepresident for student affairs at the Univer
sity of Louisville, and member of a newlyestablished national task force on college 
alcohol issues.
Colleges, too, have faced increasing 
liability in recent years for accidents, crimes 
and injuries resulting from institutional 
negligence.
Cases invloving such schools as Ohio 
State, Virginia and Oregon, to name a few, 
have held student organizations and frater
nities responsible for the actions of intox
icated guests, Hammond points out.
Even raising the legal drinking age can 
make colleges more vulnerable to lawsuits.
In Minnesota, for instance, the drinking 
age may soon jump from 19 to 21, greatly 
increasing the chances of colleges acciden
tally serving liquor to minors, and opening 
up trememdous liability potential, warns 
University of Minnesota attorney Mark 
Karon.
If you were at a fraternity, a sorority, or 
a dormitory or any other kind of party and 
you gave liquor to a minor, you impose the
possibility of common-law negligence by 
selling liquor to underaged students, he 
warns.
In the wake of all these law changes and 
crackdowns, whats happening is that so
meone drinks himself blind, goes out and 
wraps his car around a telephone pole or 
crashes into another car, and then the vic
tims and their families sue the bar or frater
nity for huge financial settelements, says 
Donna McKenna of the Professional In
surance Agents association.
Thats why (insurance companies) are 
dropping alcohol liability.
If more insurance companies quit offer
ing alcohol liability policies, colleges may 
find it increasingly costly to serve liquor, or
to allow alcohol on campus at all. __
SMU is a completely dry campus now, 
says Auxiliary Services Director Gordon. 
Other Massachusetts schools soon will do the 
same thing, he predicts.
Indeed, without liability insurance, 
many colleges around the country TOay 
decide to simply ban alcohol from campus 
rather than face the risk it poses to the in
stitution, says Louisvilles Hammond, 
noting a number of campuses already have 
gone dry even with liability insurance.
Its not something I agree with, he adds, 
but its certainly making more and more 
sense  at least financially and legally  
for colleges to get away from alcohol 
altogether.
DHTP>L
f5BOCI<=rr$
Drs. Alex Lowy and I.B. Mandel
Cosmetic And Preventive Family Dentistry
3708 Fifth Avenue 
Medical Arts Bldg., Suite 519 Oakland
Days and Evenings 
681-2115
Are\bu Good Enough 
To Join The Best 
InThe Nuclear Field?
The Navy operates the most advanced nuclear equipment in the world, 
including more than half the nuclear reactors in 
America. The men who maintain and operate those 
reactors have to be the best. That's why officers 
in the Nuclear Navy get the most extensive and 
sophisticated training in the world.
College juniors and seniors who qualify 
for the program can earn over 1900 a 
month while still in school.
After graduation, as a Navy officer, 
you receive a year of graduate-level 
training unavailable anywhere else at 
any price. You become a highly trained 
member of an elite group with vital re
sponsibilities and growing career potential
To qualify, you must be a U.S. citizen between 19 and 27 years of age. 
working toward or have earned a bachelor's or master s degree. You must 
also ha\e completed a minimum of one year each of calculus and calculusbased physics with a "B " average or better.
You can submit an application as soon as youve completed your sophomore 
year in college. If you think you're good enough to join the best in the nuclear 
field, find out. Call the Naval Management Programs Office for full information.
644-6435 or Toll-Free 1-800-242-3736 
In W. V., Oh. and Md. call Toll-Free 1-800-245-1772
Navy Officer Programs (60)
Room 711
1000 Liberty Avenue 
Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania 15222
On Campus April 2i
^_Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast.___J
NOTICE!
dam gebuiln tbhI lb arhs,Iy1ow $599.
This standby fare provides a 
berth in a room for 4 (we'll 
find traveling companions for 
you). Or, for $699, sail in a 
minimum grade room for 2 
people. This limited offer is 
subject to withdrawal without 
prior notice and may not be 
combined with any other offer. 
Rate does not include taxes or 
airfare. Confirmation will be 
givjen 3 weeks prior to sailing;
a $75 deposit is required with 
your request. For details, see 
your travel agent or write: 
Cunard, PO. Box 2935, Grand 
Central Station, New York, 
NY 10163.
ewethhc 
LIZABETH i
British Registry
CUNARD
mmumi
$AKH \n~$399 $4)9$449
AMD ICELANDER INCLUDES ALL THESE EXTRAS:
? Free wine with dinner, cognac afterin flight. ? Free deluxe roundtrip 
motorcoach between Luxembourg and select cities in Germany, Belgium and 
Holland. ? Reduced train fares to Switzerland and France. ? Super Saver 
Kemwel car rentals at $59 per week in Luxembourg.WE'RE THE 0U.Y WAY TO FLY TO WE BREATMTAKMIG BEAUTY Of ICELAND. 
From a 24-hour stopover to a grand tour of two weeks or more, we have the 
perfect package for a visit to Iceland, Europes most beautifully kept secret.
All fares subject to change and $3.00 international departure tax. AH fares vakd 4/14-6/8.85. except 
Orlando5/1-5/31/85. For information, restrictions and reservations for all of Icelandatr's low fares 
call kelandair toB-free at 1-800-223-5500. In New York City 757 8585
ICELANDAIR
NOW MOR THAN [VER YOUR BEST VALUE TO EUROPE

---------------------------------------------------

Make Your Voice Heard 
At The 1985
Student Government 
Elections
*
Support your choices for Student Government 
PRESIDENT and SENATORS
Vote On
Tuesday, April 16  9 a.m.-9 p.m.
and
Wednesday April 17  9 a.m.-8 p.m.
at Skibo 
Supported by Student Senate
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
PRESIDENTIAL 
DEBATE
Wednesday, April 10, 1985 
Wherrett Room 
4:30 p.m.
Sponsored by Student Senate

---------------------------------------------------

____________________Features.
:andidates agree: CMU key to city's future
4att Ja1o.kA
Staffu)riter
ttsburghs three remaining mayoral candont agree upon all of the issues, 
t0 varying degrees, they do view 
negie-Mellons acquisition of the SoftEngineering Institute as a positive facfor both the University and the city.
[ts a positive thing that 
ley selected Pittsburgh [for
SEI].
ncumbent Mayor Richard Caliguiri said 
he was very pleased that Pittsburgh 
I CMU were selected as the site to begin 
software institute. If its in here and it 
Ites the couple of hundred jobs that it 
thats a positive thing to begin with. Its 
ositive thing that they selected Pitteh. Youre talking about a hundred 
lion dollars thats going to be sunk into 
city with that software institute. 
jity Councilman Richard Givens, opposICaliguiri as an independent, was also 
i happy that CMU received [the defense] 
Iract. He believes that it will and should 
Igsome companies into Pittsburgh, as 
the republican candidate, Henry'M. 
Ith. I think that its great for CMU and 
It for the city, said Sneath. Its going 
laybe bring in some jobs that people are 
to be retrained for. 
owever, Sneath does not see SEI as the
'end all. Even though he doesnt think the 
[steel industry] will ever be back to where 
it was, . . . you cant expect every steelworker 
to be retrained as a high tech computer soft
ware programmer. Its just not going to hap
pen. Instead Sneath sees the answer to Pitt
sburghs economic dilemma emanating from 
the citys neighborhoods. There are an 
awful lot of people who live out in the 
neighborhoods such as Homewood and the 
North Side who are annoyed that theyre 
paying this great amount of money into a 
city government which does very little for 
them, said Sneath. Youve got to bring 
small business back into the neighborhoods. 
You cant just plop down a high tech factory 
and expect everybody to get a job there.
Steel hurt Pittsburgh
Caliguiri ^concedes that SEI and the 
government contract is not Pittsburghs sole 
answer to the unemployment issue. Steel has 
been hurt and its hurt Pittsburgh. Weve got 
to do everything we can to make that in
dustry healthy again, because its still a 
strong component of the Pittsburgh employ
ment. However, weve got to fill the gaps in 
and, certainly, the software institute can 
help us do that. Im not talking about . . . 
giving anyone false hopes, said Caliguiri. 
Theyre here, its going to create jobs, money 
is being expended here by the software in
stitute, thats fine. Now we just have to do 
everything we can to utilize that and go from 
there. Its private enterprise thats going to 
create the jobs, government can only create 
incentives and encourage businesses to come
here.
Givens, however, does not think that Pitt
sburghs city government has been providing 
the necessary incentives that would attract 
new businesses. While he believes that 
theres definitely going to be a spinoff [from 
SEI], especially new companies, Givens 
points out that theyre not going to come 
up to Pittsburgh unless we give them a 
climate, a need and a want to come up here, 
and that means a better tax base. Accor
ding to Givens, Pittsburghs tax base has 
been eroded over the last eight to ten years. 
Allegheny county is the highest in the state 
for taxation. In fact, we know that the city 
of Pittsburgh is the highest in the County 
and that Pennsylvania is the third highest 
in the nation. Givens claims that Caliguiri 
has doubled [Pittsburghs] taxation in seven 
years.
Caliguiri counters this claim by stating, 
We havent raised taxes in Pittsburgh for 
three years and Ive indicated that its not 
going to be raised again for the fourth year. 
There are very, very few cities anywhere in 
this country . . . that can make that state
ment. Certainly Id like to reduce taxes, but 
weve created a lot of incentives for business 
to come here. Some 30,000 new jobs have 
been created in the city over the past eight 
years.
Wastes in government
Caliguiri figures that a cut in taxes 
equates to a cut in services. Tell me what 
youre going to reduce and what youre go
ing to cut out. However, Sneath does not
agree. I think that people in this country 
are finding out that cutting taxes doesnt 
necessarily mean a cut in services . . . 
governments have grown spoiled over the 
years, he said. Sneath believes that taxes 
could be reduced through more efficient 
spending. The waste is so prevalent in the 
city government, that its almost ludicrous.
Givens also thinks that tax money has 
been ill-spent. We went from 4600 
employees in the City of Pittsburgh, up to 
5200 under Dick Caliguiri, said Givens. We 
have reduced our police department by 
several hundred police officers during the 
same period of time. If Caliguiris concern
ed about the safety of the people, when he 
increased it from 4600 up to 5200, why 
didnt he keep some police officers?
Caliguiri responded by saying, Theres no 
need to expand our police force. We have 
enough police officers right now. Its what 
you do with the resources you have. Throw
ing numbers at anything doesnt solve the 
problem. We still have one of the lowest 
crime rates in this nation of a major 
metropolitan area. However, Givens claims 
that with 250,000 service calls per year for 
the police department only, you cant say 
that this is a very safe city.
Rash of rapes
This issue of safety takes on an added im
portance for the CMU community when the 
recent rash of rapes in the Shadyside area 
is considered. Certainly we have a problem 
right now in Shadyside, Caliguiri admitted.
continued on page 9
aster plan
CMU hires architectural firm to create strategy for future building construction
ITEPHEN VOLAN
i Editor-in-Chief
ajor architectural firm has begun to 
a master plan for capital develop
ed the CMU campus, 
esign team from the firm of CRS Sirthe largest architectural engineering 
n the country, commandeered the enighlander Room from Monday to Frijf last week. The task given to it by the 
istration is to develop a long-range 
for] placement and zoning of new 
ngs and facilities, said Ed Finlay, pro
jector [of the CMU planning team], 
il as renovation of existing facilities.
0 stated that the team is not actually 
lng buildings, but simply creating a 
ework for future construction.
f the most highly-discussed areas on 
s was that surrounding Skibo. Were 
at expanding Skibo and adding 
cant [building] space around it so that 
mes a true University Center and 
tional Complex, said Finlay. 
c,fic areas which the design team is 
ering fr possible construction are the 
Main parking lot to the north of the 
the land between Skibo and Tech 
the east, and the space now ocby the tennis courts to the south.
improvements now being coninclude:
of the Thistle Gym into a 
athletic facility. Skibo would house 
acilities primarily of a more recreanature.
knd between Doherty and Warner 
ne Proposal for the land, which is 
Tession leading into Panther Hollow, 
cture combining parking facilities
1 earch and engineering labs.
Kr CiaSS diversity Theatre for the
 Fine Arts, which would be located 
^bo area.
The Highlander Room was turned into a makeshift architecture studio last week as the firm of CRS Sirrine began creating 
a master plan for capital development of the campus. Yesterday, the Pub Committee began turning the Room into Scotland Yard.
consolidation of Fine Arts departments 
into fewer buildings than are presently 
occupied.
# a store combining the functions of the 
Bookstore, Entropy, the Art Store and the 
Co-op. Wed like a real good Bookstore near 
Skibo, emphasized Finlay.
The series of manipulations of present 
campus facilities will free many classrooms 
and lecture halls which historically have 
been cannibalized for other uses, say the 
designers. In addition, the Bureau of Mines, 
once finally acquired, will open up 
possibilities for all colleges at CMU.
The master plan will spearhead the
5-year, $200-million capital campaign fc^ 
major facility improvements to be kicked oft 
this fall. According to CMU Planning Direc
tor Pat Keating, the campaign will be an
nounced at a meeting of the Board of 
Trustees in October. Approximately half of 
the money from this campaign will go to new 
buildings and improvement of existing 
buildings; the other half will go to en
dowments, faculty salaries and new faculty 
postions, and other non-capital 
expenditures.
CRS Sirrine, located in Houston, has 
designed or built facilities at over 150 
Universities nationwide, said Finlay. Some
notable collegiate buildings the firm has 
designed include Harvard School of Educa
tion, and the Alumni Center at UCLA. It 
has also developed master plans similar to 
CMUs at Duke University, Ohio State 
University, and its branch campuses, and 
Texas A&M.
Part of the reason CMU gave the job to 
CRS Sirrine was the offer which the firm 
made. The project is led by Paul Kennon, 
the president of the firm and design prin
cipal. Kennon is one of the best architects 
in the country, according to Finlay. CRS 
also put its best workers on the CMU design 
team, he said.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanApril 9, 1985
Vice and Virtue
Software developed for Origins students
By ERIC SOLOMON
Tartan Staffwriter
In Origins of the Modern World, a 
freshman-level history course, students spend 
a great deal of time studying the lifestyle of 
the French people. In order to make this 
study easier, Professors Katherine Lynch and 
David Miller of. the History Department, 
have developed computer software to sup
plement the required course readings.
The programs study a database of cahiers 
de doleances or complaint forms, collected 
in France around 1789, just prior to the 
French Revolution. The programs offer the 
students in 79-110 a more thorough 
understanding of the plight of the French 
peasantry at the time.
In early versions of the software, students 
could do simple statistical analyses, review
ing common complaints the Frenchmen 
had on certain issues such as taxation and 
politics. These programs were available on 
the TOPS systems until the History Departs 
ment was asked last year to use PCs and 
Macintoshes instead of TOPS, because of
the increasing cost of maintaining classwork 
on-line.
The current editions of the software, now 
being pilot-tested by Professor Lynchs 
Origins recitation section, takes a different 
approach. The program runs on an IBMPC and uses its graphics capabilaties to contruct maps from the data. Students can see 
how many people complained about 90 
given subject in each of 33 regions of France.
Students are required to write an openended assignment using the educational 
software. They could choose to write a paper 
based on the software only, on readings and 
some of the data from the software, or on

gl
photo by Olve ]
This graphic illustrates the capabilities of Prof. Katherine Lynchs Origins Software. The program, which helps students \ 
the voting trends of Frenchmen during the French Revolution, is still being tested.
the specific region of France in relation to 
the data.
The program is not perfect, however. The 
early versions of the software relied solely on 
statistical information based on the frequen
cy of complaints. Students taking the course 
are mostly freshmen, who have not learned 
enough statistical skills to explore the rela
tionships in the data fully. Therefore, the 
kinds of analogies that could be drawn were 
very limited, according to Prof. Lynch, head
instructor of the course.
In addition, the current software has 
sacrificed precision in order to make it more 
useable by freshmen, but students now can 
control their own path of discovery through 
the data more easily than previously possi
ble with textbooks, lectures, and more com
plicated versions of the software. They are 
no longer given pre-digested data, and are 
more free to gain insights on their own.
Vice and Virtue is a weekly ca 
devoted to presenting the many jac 
computing at CMU. Many projects,] 
grams, and individurals, will be, 
in future issues to demonstrate the be 
and the problems of computing, 
are encouraged to send any comme 
questions to Vice and Virtue, co 
tan, Skibo 103.
LEARN HOW 
TO FLY 
HELICOPTERS.
If you ve ever wanted to fly a helicopter, here s your oppor
tunity. The Army has openings now in its Warrant Officer Flight 
Training Program.
To qualify, you must have a high school diploma, have no 
previous military service, be at least 17 years old, and not older 
than 21 Vi at the time of your enlistment. You must meet certain 
physical and mental requirements for enrollment in the Warrant 
Officer Flight Training Program.
Prior to entering helicopter flight training, you must success
fully complete basic training and pre-flight training.
After appointment as a Warrant Officer, you will return to 
your local Army Reserve unit and train one weekend a month and 
two weeks a year for at least 48 months.
If youd like to wear the wings of an Army aviator, stop by 
or call:644-5413
ARMY RESERVE. 
BE ALLYOU CAN BE.
CMU Computer Store
Hewlett-Packard Products
HP 110  8 lb. Portable, MS-Dos,
656K internal memory, Lotus 1-2-3 in
ROM and 300b Modem.
...........................$2300.00
Thinkjet Printer  150 CPS ink jet
printing, disposable printhead, very
quiet............................................... $375.00
Lazer Jet Printer  Perfect letter
quality printing at 8 pages per minute,
interchangable font cartriges.
...........................$2625.00
CMU Computer Store Hours 
10-4 Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri. 
10-6 Thurs.

---------------------------------------------------

April 9, 1985The TartanPage 9
ayoral 
iandidates
nued from page 7
[t well catch him. Im not going to panic, 
ough Im concerned, obviously, right 
until we catch the perpetrator or 
etrators. I dont know how many there 
lout there, but well catch them. We dont 
 the lowest crime rate in the country by 
I sitting back and ignoring the issues. 
issues have not been ignored in the 
but what shape will the issues take in 
Ifuture, and what role will CMU play in 
future? Although the candidates 
eive different solutions to Pittsburghs 
ous problems, they do seem to agree that 
I should and will be an active factor in 
I citys future. Youve got to start to 
[lop long range goals for the city that inle the various facets of the city, and the 
sides are a very big part of Pittsburgh, 
Sneath. CMU, the whole university 
Iplex has to work with government, said 
liri We can use CMU and the 
ces that are out there to help us plan 
uture of this city.
Carnegie-Mellon University Spring Carnival
It Comes In Colors
File Now!
Help 1RS process more quickly.
A PUBLIC SERVICE MESSAGE FROM THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE
SPRING CARNIVAL PICNIC
Thursday, April 18, 5 p.m. 
On "The Mall" between Baker and Doherty Halls
ALL YOU CAN EAT
Sign up on Wednesday, April 17 in Skibo to 
have one meal deducted from your meal plan; 
OR 
Pay $3.00 ($2.50 for sophomores) at the picnic.
ENTERTAINMENT
Including a DJ and plenty of volleyball for 
everyone
Sponsored by the Sophomore Class Club
THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
V
S
iS
WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS OF CMU 
REASONABLE RENTAL RATES!
THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND! 
"THE FAIRFAX" ...4614 5th AVE.I 
WE WILL FURNISH IF NEEDED! 
YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
'he management invites the Faculty 
Members, Graduate Students & CMU 
Guests to visit and inspect our ONE 
BEDROOM & STUDIO APARTMENTS
We are open for your viewing seven days 
J week. PLEASE call H. M. Harrity for 
JOUR appointment, anytime. DIAL 
21-4030. We'll see YOU at "THE 
-^FAX" ...Neighbor.
PRECISIN 
HAIRCUT 
(ANY LENGTH)
$13.00
(WASH-CUT 
BLOW STYLE)
1
ft
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES
$25.00
COLOR
We never met o head 
we didn't like
. . .With apologies to Will Rogers, 
the great American humorist.
The point we're trying to make, 
of course, is that many haircutters only see hair when they 
look at a head.
At Great X, we look at the 
whole head as well as the hair. 
We also listen to what the head 
says, how he or she pictures him
Mon, Tues, Wed 107 
Thurs, Fri 109 
Sat 96
self or herself after the haircut.
Our haircutters are trained to put 
it all together ... so that the 
final product is more than just an 
example of expert haircutting . . 
. but a perfect representation of 
who you want to be.
Every head's a winner, when it 
heads for.. .
NO APPOINTMENT
PRECISION
687-3500
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
237 Atwood Street
Across the street from 
the Oakland Post Office

---------------------------------------------------

Funded buj Studer Actyrty

---------------------------------------------------

April 9, 1985The TartanPage
Blank spaces are hard to fill.
And when you have to fill them, you know why. 
The Tartan. Paid positions now available in 
typesetting, advertising and production. Callx2111 
late afternoons for more information.
Partially funded by Student Activities Fee.
LEARN TO DRIVE.
Youre* on tin* bridge of a 200- 
million-dollar Navy destroyer 
ploughing through the choppx 
witters of the* South C hina Se a.
And voure iii charge.
most corporations will ever 
give you at 22.
The rcwirds are greater, too. 
With a great starting salary of
and pay raises.
There's more.to learn in the* 
Navy. About > ourself and about a 
career that can last a lifetime. (let
Youre readv for the responsibil- of benefits. And an increase up1UUV .li . .. i'___ity iK'cause youre a Navy Officer. 
With more authority than
Si7.700. A comprehensive package everything you're capable of frftm, 
of benefits. And an increase up the start when you start in the
to as much as .$31,000 after four Navy. See your Navy Recruiter or
years with regular promotions CALL 8O-327-NAVY.
NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST.

---------------------------------------------------

BY
Colette Silvestri
Premiering April 11-13,17-20
Presented By
Scotch r Soda
Scotch n Soda 
Skibo 40D
Carnegie-Mellon University 
Pittsburgh. PA 15213 
(412) 578-3522
Skibo Ball Room 
Tickets on sale at 
information Desk 
S3.50 With I.D. 
$5.00 Without I.D. 
Funded bv Student Senate

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
playhouse: excellent revival of Superstar
gy gjtXJCE KASREL
Tartan Staffwriter
While still in the spirit of this Easter 
season, make an effort to see the Pittsburgh 
playhouses production of Jesus Christ 
Superstar. The Playhouse has done a fine job 
on this revival of the classic hit play of the 
early seventies by Tim Rice (Lyrics) and An
drew Lloyd Weber (Music). In short, 
Superstar is about the trials and tribulations 
of the last seven days in the life of Jesus of 
Nazarethwith a contemporary twist. The 
play is actually a rock opera, with the dialog 
completely conveyed in song. Since the 
original music dictates the entire play, this 
version is not much different than it.
However, the production staff has chosen 
a different viewpoint in this revival. Accor
ding to the plays director, Kenneth Gargaro, 
"The original Broadway production of Jesus 
Christ Superstar chose to sensationalize the 
story. We have decided simply to empahsize 
the story through attention to the Gospels. 
The effect that this change has on the 
story is minor and it does not hinder the 
original intent of the authors to educate' 
and enlighten us using song and dance to 
convey the preachings of Jesus Christ. The 
flashy Hollywood style of the play is what 
makes Superstar such an interesting and 
entertaining play, not the biblical content.
Scotch 'n' Soda
Snowangel 
& Epiphany
By CURT WOHLEBER
Tartan Staffwriter 
Scotch n Soda, CMUs theater group, 
presented Cages, a pair of one act plays by 
Lewis John Carlino, on March 28-30 at the 
stylish and comfortable Mellon Institute 
Auditorium.
Cages is about confinement of a spiritual 
rather than physical nature, the traps of ex
istence people let themselves into and the 
limitations people try to impose on others. 
The first play, Snowangel, is about an en
counter between an aging prostitute nam
ed Connie (Mary Beth Gilmore, who also co
directed with Elayne Tobin) and her client, 
John (Scot Allen). Connie is trapped in her 
sordid existence, numbly turning tricks in a 
squalid hotel room replete with a flashing, 
red neon light glowing through the window. 
The bitter, volatile John is driven by his futile 
hope to recreate the magic of a past rela
tionship. Using Connie, he tries pathetical
ly to reenact key moments of the romance, 
cruelly ignoring Connies desperate, bit
tersweet reminiscences of her lost innocence. 
Their respective cages prevent the two from 
seeing each other as human beings, thus 
Gaining them of their own humanity.
The second play, Epiphany, is an unset
tling mixture of humor and horror about a 
neurotic husband (Tom Gullo) and his sarinsinuating wife (Michele Osherow). 
e wife (we never learn the characters 
Janies) is an advertising executive; the husis an ornithologist, cataloging data 
fbut birds at home and doing the 
usework. The husband feels that his 
masculinity is threatened by the male-female
reversal, and thinks (perhaps correctAlthough the teachings are from the New 
Testament, persons of any faith will enjoy 
and benefit from seeing this production.
Superstar's look is simple. The sets are very 
basic  there really is only one set. 
Choreography, by Ron Tassone, is modern, 
yet plain and clear. The music is very con
temporary in nature; it is because of this that 
Superstar is so poignant. When put together 
you get a story that stands the test of time 
and is told in such a manner that anyone 
can understand.
Overall, the cast of Superstar does a very 
competent job in this production, however 
there are a few exceptional performances 
worth noting. James P. McCrum and An
thony DeLeo Jr. are both very entertaining 
as Judas and Jesus, respectively. Katie 
McCombs, who plays Mary, has a beautiful 
voice that just lights up the theater. The 
most entertaining performance came from 
Tom Rocco who plays King Herod. Even 
though he is only on stage for one song and 
dance number, he is fantastic and very 
bizarre he looks like he just wandered off 
of a La Cage aux Folles set.
A final note should be made in reference 
to the actual soundtrack which was done 
with a state-of-the-art computer. The music 
is created by a Fairlight CMI (Computer 
Musical Instrument), and you wont be able 
to tell that it isnt live. Since the theater is 
small, the sound surrounds you giving an ef
fect that really enhances the performance.
The Pittsburgh Playhouses production of 
Jesus Christ Superstar is well worth the ticket 
price, and I would recommend it to 
everyone. Rice and Weber have written a 
masterpiece of a play. Even with its strong 
religious overtones it still can be enjoyed 
simply for its artistic merit.
Photo by Drew Yenchak
Anthony DiLeo is exceptional as Christ in Jesus Christ SuperstarPoetry: Order and Chaos, Nothing at all
By JUDY MERRILL
Tartan Contributing Editor
Im always leery of self-published books: 
they are usually an author proclaiming his 
view of the world, full of hubris and bad 
poetry. But Order and Chaos, Nothing at 
All, by W.R. Tish, sparked my interest 
enough to make me open it. Tish grew up 
on Beeler Street here in Pittsburgh, bypass
ing CMU with the good fortune of getting 
into Harvard. An editor of the Harvard 
Lampoon, he went on to work on his MFA 
at American University. My initial curiosity 
was to see what the local boy who made 
good could write.
Order and Chaos is a mixture of poetry 
and prose based upon Tishs theory of 
language: I place words themselves above 
genre, above character, above plot. By focus
ing on words as such, the ultimate meaning 
becomes a compromise, a conjunction bet
ween them (the words) and you. It isnt as 
dry as it sounds. While Tish is working 
toward the proclamation of his lifes 
manifesto, there are many humorous stops 
along the way.
He who hesitates is lost. /He who 
hesitates in a revolving door is squashed.
One of 12 Songs of Innocent Experience, 
this is an example of Tishs epigrammatic 
poetry. Often twisting famous literature or 
commonplaces, these gems are Tishs best 
poetic efforts. The more serious poems 
tend to remain at the level of abstraction, 
rarely evoking an image or emotion. 
Although he desperately wants to provoke 
philosophical thoughts, it is too easy to glide 
over poems like Reflection or most of The 
Truth about Truth because they dont hold 
the readers attention. The epigrams get 
more across, much in the tradition of Zen 
poetry, where very short, funny sayings can 
be profound.
The ambitious prose in Order and Chaos 
is divided between one-page essays and short 
stories. Most of the essays have the same 
weakness as the serious poetrythey are full 
of abstract nouns that dont arrest the eyes 
or seem to mean much. This is the weakness 
of placing words themselves above genre, 
above character, above plot. In a world full 
of words spit at high-speed over the elec
tronic and print media or computer ter
minals, the average reader does not hold in
dividual words in reverence. Maybe I am just 
a shallow member of a television generation,
role
y) that his wife susp>ects (again, perhaps coreCtly) of homosexuality. Epiphany is 
y.mewhat reminiscent of Whos Afraid of 
Li^nia Woolf?" but steeped in the bizarre, 
co e ^eor^e and Martha in Albees play, the 
, Pe plays games of dominance and humiliatic
Forbes Gallery displays 
Frank, Hudak, and Koncius
child;ion with each other, but in this case
ex rens games like Simon Says are used to 
ThPress cncealed attitudes and hostilities. 
e husband schemes to reassert his
continued on page 14
By LYNNE M. SCHATZ
Special to The Tartan
This weeks exhibition at the Forbes 
Gallery features the work of senior painters 
Karen Frank, Janine Hudak, and Debbie 
Koncius. The show opens tomorrow night, 
Wednesday, at 7:00 p.m., as opposed to the 
usual Tuesday opening.
The work of these three artists is unified 
in the use of strong colors and bold shapes
to achieve mood and emotion.
Karen Frank displays water color pain
tings as well as oil paintings. Franks oils 
typically are large depictions of the human
form.
I want to paint the figure as large as or 
larger than life, said Frank. I use the figure 
to talk about my own experiences. Its a kind 
of examination of the self.
continued on page 17
but I think our culture encourages writers 
to rely upon imagery or a semblance of plot 
in order to get the point across to the au
dience. Humans tend to pay more attention 
to a story than to abstractions.
Fortunately, most of the short stories in 
this collection do grab attention. Close n 
Play Pizza, (originally printed in the Lam
poon) and Mixed-Up Matt are one-page 
stories that jab at peoples attitudes about 
themselves while being very funny. The piece 
that made the entire book worthwhile for me 
was 36 Hours: A Frogs Life. The tale of 
a group of camp counselors and their 
drunken weekend, A Frogs Life rambles 
through the experiences that many of us 
want out of college: beer, a few drugs, sex, 
and roadtrips. The wordplay in the story 
makes the plot even funnier: Finally, 
Anabanana cast herself as the lead in Deep 
Frog, that steamy pornofrogic skit involv
ing a frog with an incredible esophagus. . . 
Light-hearted and playful, A Frogs Life 
leaves no lily pad unturned in the search for 
meaningful chaos.
Tishs final message is a variation of the 
Youre okay; Im okay theme: everything 
is truth, and life is always worth living. 
Manifestos seem a little quaint in these postModemist days, but Tishs enthusiasm and 
sincerity are so infectious that only the most 
hardened cynic will dismiss it as total 
nonsense. While Order and Chaos, Nothing 
at All is weakest while it is trying to be 
serious, it is successful in conveying Tishs 
wonder and happiness. If you happen to 
have an extra six bucks and are curious 
about what goes on outside of CMUs writing 
workshops, try Order and Chaos as an 
upbeat alternative to gloom-and-doom pro
phets and so-called serious literature.
W.R. Tishs Order and Chaos, Nothing at 
All is available in the CMU Bookstore.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanApril 9, 1985
New vinyl from known and unknown
Scotch n Sodas next production is of 
former CMU student Colette Silvestri's 
musical Zelda! The musical stars Susanin
as the wife of writer F. Scott Fit
zgerald. Zelda! premieres Thursday, April 
11 at the Skibo Ballroom and continues 
through April 20. Tickets are on sale now 
at the Skibo Information Desk and the front 
desk at Mellon Institute. Admission is $3 JO 
with CMU I.D., $5.00 without.
FUNDED BY ACTIVITIES FEE.
DONT WASTE TIME!
DISCOUNTED SPRING CARNIVAL 
RIDE TICKETS GO ON SALE 
MONDAY, APRIL 15 
AND WILL COST $3.50 FOR 7. 
SALES WILL CONTINUE UNTIL 
3 PM, THURSDAY, APRIL 18 
(TICKETS PURCHASED ON THE 
MIDWAY AFTER THIS TIME WILL 
BE AT REGULAR PRICE.) 
TICKETS MAY BE BOUGHT AT 
SKIBO DESK, 9 AM - 5 PM.
By MARK ISKOWITZ
Special to The Tartan
Sisters of Mercy  First And Last And 
Always (Elektra)
Whats new, English, and black all over? 
The debut album by one of Britains 
brightest dance bands, The Sisters of Mer
cy. Following a two-year string of import 
singles and EPs, the quartet has col
laborated with producer Dave Allen  a 
veteran of the Gang of, 4 and Shriekback and 
a perfect ear  to accentuate the bands 
powerful, rolling rhythms. Even more uni
que is Andrew Eldritchs desperate, 
foreboding voice, which bellows and rises 
with an unsettling omniscience.
2. Tears For Fears  Songs From The Big 
Chair (Mercury)
This monumental work exhibits the grow
ing sophistication of Smith and Orzabal, 
who have rejected their former self-absorbed 
recording approach for a team effort. The 
results are sparkling, with a more musically 
advanced sound employing jazz saxes, more 
guitar, and ambitious orchestrations. The 
Working Hour and Listen, the LPs 
masterworks, take on epic proportions. The
only odd thing is the choice of the first 
single, Everybody Wants To Rule The 
World, the groups most mundane and un
characteristic number. Nevertheless, Songs 
remains a work of uncompromising 
brilliance and perfection.
3. Nip DriversOh Blesses Freak Show 
(Bemisbrain)
Goofballs  thats the simplest way to 
describe the LA folks behind this consistent
ly entertaining bit of plastic. With song titles 
like Hick In The Movie, Mean Teen 
Queen, and Rio (by you know who), how 
could they miss? Fiery thrash mixed with offthe-wall insightful humor makes this an un
forgettable album. Ethan James hits the 
mark as always, with clear production bring
ing out the sheer chaos that is the Nip 
Drivers.
4. Fishbone  Fishbone (Columbia)
Wherever this madcap sextet comes from,
its members must have spent countless hours 
in a funhouse. Their shockingly original 
mutation of ska draws on disparated 
elements of 40s doo-wop, rockin soul, and 
street rap. While they may echo bits of the 
British Two-Tone era, they remain hip to
the plethora of contemporary musical 
genres. Crucial to the effectiveness of this 
six-song EP is producer David Kahne 
(Romeo Void, Translator), who facilitates 
the realization of Fishbones lofty musical 
ideas.
5.The Drongos  Small Miracles (Proteus) 
A no frills approach characterizes this LP
by a NY-based band from New Zealand 
Recorded live in one day on the streets 0f 
Manhattan, the record captures Th 
Drongos freewheeling spirit and stripped 
down rock/country pop sound. Besides pl3y 
ing purely fun music, the band possesses the 
uncanny talent of social observation 
especially obvious on Substance Abuser"
Snowangel and Epiphany
continued from page 13 
manhood by effecting a mystical, 
metaphorical transformation into an avian 
creature, a descendant of the once-dominant 
dinosaurs: the chicken. Once the epiphany 
is completed he will assume control, 
establishing a literal pecking order as ruler 
of the roost. The final moments of the play, 
with the husband squawking, flapping and 
wearing a beak are ironic, and both amus
ing and chilling.
In selecting to perform Cages, Scotch n 
Soda draws upon better though much more 
challenging material than in last semesters 
production of Ted Tallys amusing but un
distinguished Hooters. Technically, Cages 
was competent. The sets were somewhat 
spartan and makeshift, but that was probably the result of the Mellon Institute 
Auditoriums limited backstage facilities. All 
four performances were strong and effective 
Gilmore and Gullo admirably handled the 
demading roles of Connie in Snowangel" 
and the husband in Epiphany. Scot Allen 
was convincing as the lonely and bitter John, 
and Michele Osherow, engagingly bitchy as 
Ronda in Hooters, managed to hold her own 
in a role that could have been very easily 
overshadowed by the manic madness of 
Gullos character, injecting an interesting 
edge of ambiguity that helped to center the 
focus on the couples relationship rather than 
the husbands bizarre behavior. All in all, 
Cages was a quality production. Well done, 
Scotch n Soda.

---------------------------------------------------

APRIL FOOL!
And now for 
the real 
concert ...
ABC Concerts presents 
N R B Q
with special guests 
Denny Dent 
 14 Karat Soul 
Friday, April 19
7:00 pm 
Tech Field 
Admission Free
Funded By Activities Fee
Rain Location: CMU Gym
ABConcerts 
Spring Carnival
Saturday April 20th at 7:30 pm 
 on the cut 
Free AdmissionFunded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanApril 9, 1985
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Staffwriter
Before the first pitch of this years baseball 
season is thrown, baseball fever will be in full 
swing. All this premature excitement can be 
blamed on the release of the new Neil Simon 
film The Sluggers Wife. Billed as a love 
story about two of Americas favorite 
pastimes baseball and falling in love, The 
Sluggers Wife promises to be another 
creative and realistic Neil Simon work, but 
it never delivers.
The story in Sluggers Wife is the stan
dard boy-meets-girl scenario. Adanta Braves 
baseball star, Darryl Palmer (Michael 
OKeefe), comes across a sexy nightclub 
singer, Debby (Rebecca De Momay), and 
soon falls madly in love. As soon as the rela
tionship gets off the ground, Darryl starts 
hitting home runs like crazyhe quickly ap
proaches Roger Maris untouchable record 
of 61 homers in a season.
On the advice of his coach, Burly De Vito 
(Martin Ritt), he marries her. The Braves 
immediately rise to the top of their division, 
and at the same time, her songs rise to the 
top of the charts. Soon a career conflict 
develops and they break up. After the split, 
she continues to soar but his batting average 
takes a nose dive. From here on, the film
Correction
The last Did You Know. . . box that 
appeared in The Tartan mentioned 
that Ian Gillan portrayed Christ in 
Jesus Christ Superstar. It should be 
noted that he played Christ in the 
stage presentation, not the movie.
Neil Simon's The Slugger's Wife strikes out
AB(]oncerts
"a concert for the eyes
Funded by Activities Fee
focuses on Darryls struggle to get his old 
form back in time for the division cham
pionship game and hopefully get the girl 
back as well.
Neil Simon has done some very successful 
works in the past like The Goodbye Girl, 
Murder by Death, and The Odd Couple 
(to name a few), but Sluggers Wife is not 
even in their league. The movie is not really 
funny and the script is just too dry and dull. 
The breakup between Darryl and Debbie is 
hardly even mentioned, much less explain
ed. We know that their careers clash, but 
because of the lack of any form of action or 
suspense we dont feel it. The film is really 
boring. I think that Simon has gone to the 
well one too many times in short, Simon 
struck out.
Even the music in this film is bad. Quin
cy Jones is the music director, but even the 
commercial marketing genius behind 
Michael Jacksons Thriller and We Are 
The World cannot save this dud. The 
soundtrack for the movie contains many hits 
but none are sung by the original artists. 
Somehow I cannot see anyone being able to 
sing Hungry Heart like Bruce Springsteen 
can. Even more annoying is that when the 
songs are performed, the movie shifts into 
an MTV mode and the visual bounces for
ward and backward in the movie. This gets 
you so confused you neither know nor care 
whats happening.
It is really hard to believe that so much 
talent created such a bomb. All of the ac
tors are accomplished film stars, and Neil 
Simon is one of the best writers around. The 
director, Hal Ashby, recieved an Oscar 
nomination for Coming Home and the 
producer, Ray Stark, recieved the award for 
lifetime achievement. Sluggers Wife does 
have one bright side: it proves that even the 
best of us can really screw up once in a while.
8:00 pm 
sat., aprii 20
tech field
Photo courtesy of Columbia pictures
Michael OKeefe and Rebecca De Mornav star as slugger and a pop singer who fall 
in and out of love in The Sluggers Wife.

---------------------------------------------------

April 9, 1985The TartanPage 17
Buckaroo Bonzai is becoming a cult classic
By CURT WOHLEBER
Tartan Staffwriter
Hes a brilliant neurosurgeon, a pre
eminent particle physicist, a master of mar
tial arts, and the leader of the rock group 
the Hong Kong Cavaliers. His name is 
Buckaroo Banzai, and the movie is The 
Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai  Across
the 8th Dimension, a hilarious and com
pletely off-the-wall science fiction, actionadventure parody playing this month in a 
series of midnight showings at Oaklands 
Pittsburgh Playhouse.
Buckaroo Banzai, written by Earl Mac 
Rauch and directed by W.D. Richter, failed 
to attract a large audience in its general
More from Forbes Gallery
continued from page 13
Franks early figure work, Last Breath and 
You Can Dress Me Up, are depictions of 
dancers done in black and white. At that 
time, I didnt know how I wanted to use col
or, said Frank. Now I view the color as sub
jective or intuitive. The color can be a for
mal decision, like when I use it to make 
something stand out. These color decisions 
are evident in Franks piece, Dancing A lone, 
in which a large yellow figure dominates the 
canvas.
Janine Hudak displays oil paintings and 
intaglio prints. Hudaks work is also typified 
by the use of deep color, frequently varia
tions on the family of pastels. Hudak is cur
rently making a move toward more abstract 
images, as opposed to the scene painting 
she has worked on in the past.
I want the colors to do more of the work,
said Hudak.
Hudak uses a full, bright palette in an at
tempt to achieve a more direct way of pain
ting than that which she has done before.
All of Hudaks work contains some kind 
of reference for the artist. I choose the 
things that have some meaning or reference 
forme, said Hudak. Then it just becomes 
a matter of how I paint it.
Debbie Koncius displays black and white 
photographs in addition to her oil paintings. 
Koncius finds her paintings to be influenc
ed by some of the landscapes she has taken 
photos of.
My paintings arent about formal things, 
said Koncius. Theyre more emotional. I 
create a mood by the way I use the paint. 
Koncius uses thin layers of paint and fre
quently removes paint while working on the 
piece. Her paintings are thematic, depicting 
a haunting landscape and the image of a 
single human head in dark browns, yellows, 
blues, and greens.
Many of Koncius photos, taken with a 4x5 
inch large-format camera, give the same in
dication of movement within the landscape 
that is visible in her paintings. I think you 
can especially see the influence of the photos 
by the last painting, said Koncius. There, 
the tree has a figure of its own.
The work of Karen Frank, Janine Hudak, 
and Debbie Koncius will be on display at the 
Forbes Gallery until April 14. Gallery hours 
are Wednesday, 11:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. and 
7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.; ThursdayFriday, 
11:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.; and Saturday and 
Sunday, noon to 5:00 p.m.
release last year. But a successful run at the 
Kings Court theater and a well-attended, 
enthusiastically-received screening at Pitts 
David Lawrence Auditorium show that Ban
zai is well on its way to joining the ranks of 
college cult films.
The movies mind-numbing, labyrinth 
plot defies description, but here it is anyway: 
Well, like, theres these aliens. Well, actual
ly, two kinds of aliens. Black Lectroids from 
Planet 10, who are good and look like reg
gae musicians, and then theres the Red Lec
troids, who are evil, eat junk food and look 
like Republicans. Oh yeah, all the aliens are 
named John, like John OConnor, John 
Parker, John Bigboote. And Lord John 
Whorfin, who inhabits the body of scientist 
Emilio Lizardo, who co-invented the oscilla
tion overthruster (later re-invented by 
Buckaroo Banzai) and hypnotized Orson 
Welles in 1938 to make him say that his radio 
report of Earths invasion was just a hoax 
when it was really the Red Lectroids . .. av 
forget it.
Anyway, it is up to Buckaroo Banzai to 
save the world. Helping him are fellow brain 
surgeon New Jersey, the seductive and 
suicidal Penny Priddy (who bears an uncan
ny resemblance to a woman from Banzais 
past) and other assorted offbeat characters.
Buckaroo Banzai is definitely the most ir
regular hero to come out of the movies in 
a while. When hes not performing brain 
surgery, fighting aliens, or travelling through 
solid matter in his Rocket Car, he spouts bits 
of neo-Eastern mysticism like Wherever you 
go, there you are, and croons existential 
lounge music. Of course, he never loses his 
cool, and he even manages to look macho 
with a bow tie and horn-rimmed glasses.
The movie features loads of action, teasingly obtuse exposition, interesting special 
effects, reams of witty, off-hand dialogue 
and more jokes, verbal and visual, than can 
be absorbed in a single viewing. Buckaroo 
Banzai is a slick, cinematic comic book. The 
action is wildly improbable and the films 
visual style is comic bookish, filled with 
bright colors and unlikely gadgetry. The 
climactic battle at the alien-controlled 
Yoyodyne Propulsion Systems factory, with 
a ridiculously exaggerated shootout, a large, 
lumpy spaceship, and the typical GirlEndangered-by-Hideous-Creature subplot, 
is a brilliantly bizarre mixture of James 
Bond, Marvel Comics, and film noir.
Peter Weller, a relatively unknown actor, 
plays Banzai with a good balance between 
deadpan and comedy, but he is shown up 
by some ingenious comic performances by 
a couple of his more well-known co-stars. Jeff 
Goldblum (unforgettable in The Big Chill) 
plays New Jersey in a perpetual state of mild 
confusion, and Academy Award nominee 
John Lithgow, after a series of sensitive per
formances in movies such as Terms of 
Endearment and The World According to 
Garp, is wonderfully maniacal as the cackl
ing, sneering and thoroughly nasty Emilio 
Lizardo.
An announcement at the beginning of the 
movies closing credits promises to pit 
Buckaroo against the World Crime League, 
but Banzais lack of a broad audience and 
sheer strangeness makes a sequel an unlike
ly prospect. Too bad.
Buckaroo Banzai will be shown at mid
night at the Pittsburgh Playhouse on April 
12, 13, 20 and 21.
During the time you're an undergraduate or graduate student, 
you may experience some of the following:
DEPRESSION  ANXIETY  LONELINESS  ANGER  CAREER DOUBTS
 FAMILY TROUBLES  DIFFICULTY WITH FRIENDSHIPS 
SEXUAL QUESTIONS  MARITAL OR PARENTING PROBLEMS
 LACK OF MOTIVATION  SLEEPING OR EATING PROBLEMS
Up to a certain level these feelings are quite normal, but when they begin to get 
in the way or overwhelm you, psychotherapy may be of help. Approximately 
half of our patients are students.
If you are interested in seeking such help through insight-oriented, confi
dential psychotherapy on a sliding fee scale, call 661-2300 and ask for Mrs. 
Brown. Qualified therapists will be available to speak with you. We are only 2 
miles from Oakland, an easy bus ride. Insurance coverage can often be utilized.
The Pittsburgh Psychoanalytic Center
211 N. Whitfield St, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206 
A private clinic in the public service
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING SERVICE 
EXPANDED
Now Every Sunday through Thursday 
7:00 - 10:00 PM
CALCULUS 
PRE, I, II, 111 
PHYSICS 
CHEMISTRY 
ENGLISH WRITING 
INTRO TO COMPUTING 
Sponsored by Student 
Counseling and Student Developmen 
Center.
PH 225B
PH 226B 
PH 226C 
PH 125B
WeH 5415
Affairs and
SCHOLARSHIP
The Carnegie-Mellon Pittsburgh Womens Clan Scholarship Awards Committee will be in 
terviewing women in order to select recipients for its 1985-86 awards on Monday evening, April 
15, in Skibo Hall, Room 12, from 6-9 p.m.; on Tuesday evening, April 16, in Skibo Hall, Room 
11, from 6-9 p.m.; and on Wednesday evening, April 17, in Skibo Hall, Room 13, from 6-9 p.m.
The following criteria willfbe used:
1. Student must be in her junior year in 1984-85. The award will be applied to the September 
tuition at C-MU during her senior year.
2. Student must be in the upper one-fourth of her class.
3. Student should participate in some school activities.
4. Students financial need and aid will also be taken into consideration. Student must have 
already filed a 1985-86 Financial Aid Form (FAF) or Pennsylvania State Grant/Federal 
Student Aid Form, or have a 1984-85 aid application on file in the Financial Aid Office.
Scholarship applications are now available in the Financial Aid Office. Three or four scholar
ships will be awarded, a minimum of $500 each. Deadline for submission of the application is 
April 11, Warner Hall 216, at which time the student should set up an appointment for her interview.
The Carnegie-Mellon Pittsburgh Womens Clan is comprised of Alumni of Carnegie-Mellon 
University. They have maintained an active interest in C-MU activities and have been very generous 
in their support of time and activities.

---------------------------------------------------

The 
Presidents Distinguished Lecture Series 
presents
The Honorable Livingston L. Biddle
former Chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts
with a response given by
Associate Director and Chief Program Officer of the 
Pittsburgh Foundation
Monday, April 15, 1985 
4:30 p.m.
Alumni Concert Hall 
Carnegie-Mellon University
(Sponsored by Student Senate)

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
Swimmers excel at National Tourney
}y LESLIE FRANK
orton Staffwriter
CMUs relative obscurity in NCAA swim
ming was chiseled away at the Division III 
ational Championships, held March 21-23 
Atlanta, Georgia, thanks to the personal - 
best performance of Steve Francis, Rob 
Summers, Mike Fitzgerald, and Whitney 
Foster of the CMU swim team.
Individually and as a relay team, the four 
Iswimmers topped nearly all of their past 
swims, making a very respectable showing 
[ the national competition and breaking six 
|cMU school records.
Francis had qualified to swim at nationals 
lin the 50 and 100 yard freestyle events durling season meets, and the four qualified as 
|a relay team to swim the 400 yard medley 
| relay, the 400 yard freestyle, and the 800 
yard freestyle relay during the PAC Chamipionships held in February. Summers 
|qualified to swim the 100 yard backstroke, 
|as well.
Sending four swimmers to the national 
competition was quite a positive change of 
{pace from last year, when Francis alone
| qualified.
The first day of NCAA competition was 
|marked by a school record-breaking 400 
fyard medley relay in a time of 3:36.73, ear
ning Francis, Summers, Fitzgerald, and 
[Foster 19th place, but missing the distinc
tion of All-American by fractions of a se
cond. On the second and third days, the four 
broke school records in the 400 yard freestyle 
relay and the 800 yard freestyle relay with 
times of 3:12.61 and 7:06.68 respectively.
Individually, Francis and Summers strok
ed their way to recognition in school records. 
Francis placed 13th and 15th in the 100 yard 
and 200 yard freestyle events, earning 
himself the title of All-American. With a 
100 yard time of 46.74 and a 200 yard time 
of 1:43.66, he broke CMU records for those 
events. Summers broke the CMU record for 
the 100 yard backstroke with a time of 55.66.
Preparation for national competition in
cluded weeks of tough, incredible prac
tices, working back up to 6500 yard prac
tices from the end-of-season taper while 
wearing pantyhose in the water to increase 
drag. Shaving down (including their heads) 
the night before competition began was the 
final act to increase their chances to fare 
well.
When asked about their expectations, the 
swimmers could come up with no concrete 
goals, though the celebration after the com
petition was something to look forward to. 
Having swum better than they had ever done 
previously, Francis, Summers, Fitzgerald, 
and Foster had something to celebrate, as 
did their coach, Donna Pecman.All-American Steve Francis broke CMU records in the 100 and 200-yard freestyle events.
Hockey playoffs will begin without Penguins
By RICK DuVALL
f Tartan Staffwriter
The season came to an end for the Pitts
burgh Penguins when they were defeated by 
the New York Islanders by a score of four to 
three last Tuesday. This defeat was just one 
many and by no means the 
of the season. The Pens 
surprised most of the hockey 
world with their comeback ef
fort. The only team to possibly rival their 
| achievement would be the Los Angeles 
[Kings. Their attendance was up by more 
than 120,000 over last season, averaging over 
| ten thousand per game.
They surpassed their point mark of the 
I previous season by the All-Star game. As was 
[expected, most of the offense came from 
their number one draft choice Mario 
Lemieux. Although the team missed the
playoffs, many of the veterans saw the value 
of the season. The young guys like Mario 
[Lemieux], [Doug] Bodger, and [Todd] 
Charlesworth played under pressure the final 
twenty games. They were used in key situa
tions and did the job. The pressure helped 
them to develop, said defenseman Moe 
Mantha.
Even though the Penguins have improv
ed, they have a long way to go to become 
Stanley Cup contenders. They are missing 
the type of winger that will take charge of 
. the ice, the role filled by Jari Kurri of the 
Edmonton Oilers. They could also use a con
sistent goaltender. Dennis Herron played 
superbly considering the lack of defense in 
front of him. The Penguins need help in all 
areas of the game, even the front office. Why 
have they repeatedly moved losing coaches 
into the management of the team?
Heres a quick look at the Playoff Picture. 
As has been the case in recent years, the 
Smythe and Patrick Divisions are out front. 
I would expect the final two teams to emerge 
from these divisions.
I would look for the following results up 
to the semi-finals.
Wales Conference 
Patrick Division 
Philadelphia over Washington 
Adams Division 
Buffalo over Montreal
Campbell Conference 
Norris Division 
Chicago over St. Louis
Smythe Division 
Edmonton over Winnipeg
These seem to be safe picks on the basis 
of past performances. The key will be the 
goaltending. Last years rookies are coming 
of age, Buffalos Tom Barrasso and Mon
treals Steve Penney. The veterans will be 
ready to turn in some phenomenal perfor
mances as their jobs may be on the line. The 
only place that might produce an upset is 
the Edmonton - Los Angeles first round 
series. If the Kings can manage the upset, 
I would look for them in the finals.
You are free to pick the Cup yourselves. 
There are too many intangibles to the 
Playoffs to make strict predictions.
Former Central Catholic 
coach named to CMU post
photo by Mike Pilewski
ieta Pushes their buggy over the line. Sweepstakes '85 preview in next weeks Tartan.
By RICK DuVALL
Tartan Staffwriter
Rich Erdelyi was named assistant offen
sive line coach for the Tartans. He will fill 
the positions left open by the resignations of 
part-time assistants Ray Tomb and Frank 
Tompson, both of whom left for personal 
reasons. The two were part of the defensive 
staff. The line position was opened when 
Tom Nee moved to the defense.
When asked how he came into the posi
tion, Coach Erdelyi responded, I talked to 
Chuck [Klausing] and told him I vas in
terested in getting back into on the field 
coaching. He told me there might be a posi
tion at CMU and he called a couple of days 
later with the offer.
Erdelyi is currently teaching physical 
education at Central Catholic High School 
here in Pittsburgh, where he held the head 
football coaching job from 1977-1982. Dur
ing his tenure he coached Miami Dolphin 
quarterback Dan Marino and University of 
Pittsburgh quarterback Joe Felitsky. He add 
ed, We had a lot of good players at Cen 
tral. I encouraged the ones that didnt have 
Division I ability to look at CMU. Coach
Klausing has built a very sound Division III 
program. I wouldnt say that Central is a 
prep school for Camegie-Mellon, but those 
guys have to look to the future. Coming out 
of CMU, they will have a very marketable 
degree, the thing you spend four years in 
school to achieve.
Erdelyi was also an administrative assis
tant to Pittsburgh Mauler head coach Joe 
Pendry in 1983-1984. He helped with the 
personnel and scouting departments. He 
said, We liked to throw the ball with the 
Maulers. I think the pro experience will be 
a big help at the college level. The Tartans 
used the run and-shoot a little last season, 
and I think I can help to expand it this fall.
The Tartan staff will include Klausing, of
fensive coordinator Richard Lackner, Gerry 
Mancini and Erdelyi on offense. The defen
sive staff will include defensive coordinator 
Don Poluszek, Nee, Larry Duke St rager, 
and Terry Bodner.
Coach Erdelyi is married, and he and wife 
Stephanie have three girls  Jennifer, Hol
ly, and Julie. They range in age from eight 
to thirteen.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanApril 9, 1985
1985 Baseball
Photo courtesy The Sporting News
Dwight Gooden of the Mets set a rookie record with 276 strikeouts.
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Sports Editor
The excitement begins today. Actually, 
when the Reds took the field yesterday 
against the Expos, the 1985 Major League 
Baseball season began. The rest of the 
league opens today at 11 other major league 
parks. ,
It is now when all the ifs begin to die out 
Each game means something, as does each 
playereach pitch.
So sit back and enjoy the season, and may 
the home team win. Here are my predic
tions, beginning with the National League 
East, hoping to match or exceed my 50 per
cent record of last year, when I picked the 
Tigers and Padres to win their divisions.
The rating system I use takes into account 
seven categories weighted in order of impor
tance (in my opinion): starting pitching, hit
ting for power, bullpen, hitting for average, 
fielding, speed and management.
Here are the results:
Eastern Division
New York Mets: In just three years, this 
division has totally turned upside down, and 
the result will be a pennant for the Mets. 
Frank C ashen s men in the front office made 
a few deals while waiting for young stars to 
blossom, and this should be the year.
Trades: Ron Darling for Lee 
Mazzilli. Gary Carter for Hubie 
Brooks, Mike Fitzgerald and a 
couple of minor leaguers. And 
the joke of the decade, Keith Hernandez for 
Neil Allen and Rick Ownbey.
Now the Mets have put together the most 
prolific lineup in their history. A strong cat
cher was perhaps the final need for the Mets 
to become champs. In Carter (27 HR, 106 
RBI, .294 AVG. with Montreal), they got the 
best. The numbers three through six in the 
lineup this year hit 92 homers last year. The 
Cardinals hit just 75 as a team last season.
The aquisition of Carter will take some 
pressure off young Darryl Strawberry, who 
should get better pitches to hit. The 1983 
rookie-of-the-year, Strawberry (26, 97, .251) 
has been under close scrutiny by the press 
since his New York arrival. He should benefit 
from the added power of Carter.
First baseman Hernandez is the heart that 
makes the Mets beat. Hernandez (15, 94, 
.311) gives the lineup balance, plus tremen
dous leadership and fielding ability. He won 
his seventh consecutive gold glove last 
season. Having his and Strawberrys lefthanded bats balance righties Carter and 
George Foster (24, 86, .269).
The key to Met pennant hopes is pitching, 
as is the case with so many teams. Everyone 
expects a 20 win season from Dwight 
Gooden (17-9, 2.60 ERA), who set a rookie 
record with a major league leading 276 
strikeouts. Gooden, just 20 years old, will be 
a superstar for many years, barring injury.
But for the Mets to win it all, Ron Darl
ing (12-9, 3.81) and Bruce Berenyi (9-6, 3.76 
with Mets) must pitch well. Darling was 
matching Gooden win for win in the first 
half of the season, entering the all-star break 
at 10-3, but slowed. Berenyi pitched well 
after coming over from the Reds.
The bullpen is solid with Jesse Orosco 
(10-6, 2.59, 31 saves) and the sometimes er
ratic Doug Sisk (1-3, 2.09, 15 saves).
In the rankings, the Mets highest was 
power hitting and bullpen, ranking first, 
and their lowest ranking was third, in star
ting pitching and team speed. Keys: Berenyi 
and Darling.
Chicago Cube: The Cubs are a very strong 
team that will challenge the Mets every step 
of the way. But the Cubs only number one 
ranking was management, while they are 
very weak in the field and potentially weak
in the bullpen.
Two years ago, a Chicago 
team relied on aging veterans 
and strong pitching to win a 
division title. Last year, that 
White Sox team fell apart, because they were 
stagnant in the off-season.
The Cubs re-signed all of their pitchers, 
including Cy Young Award winner Rick 
Sutcliffe (16-1, 269). They also picked up two 
more pitchers lefty Ray Fontenot (8-9, 361 
with Yankees) and Lary Sorensen (6-13, 4.91 
with As). But the Cubs lost big Tim Stod
dard (10-6, 3.82, 7 saves) from a bullpen that 
features Lee Smith (9-7, 3.65, 33 saves). But 
Smith was not overly impressive in key situa 
tions, and Fontenot is being counted on as 
the set-up man, a role he is unaccustomed 
to.
In the field, Larry Bowa (0, 17, .223) will 
be replaced at shortstop by rookie Shawon 
Dunston. Bowa was limited in his range, but 
made the routine play. The 22-year-old 
Dunston, the nations number-one draft pick 
in 1982, hit an incomparable .790 his senior 
year in high school, and a more realistic .329 
in Double-A ball last year. But in triple-A 
he batted just .233. Plus, he committed an 
unbelievable 58 errors, something he must 
improve.
This makes the left side of the infield a 
weak spot. Ron Ceys (25, 97, .240) bat hasnt 
slowed much at age 37, but he never did 
have much range. Add a weak defensive cat
cher in Jody Davis and a weak rightfielder 
in Keith Moreland, and the Cubs have a 
potentially large problem. Bob Dernier and 
Ryne Sandberg are the only strong fielders 
in the lineup.
Sandberg should have another great year. 
The 1984 MVP is just 25, and Sandberg (19, 
84, .314, 32 stolen bases, 19 triples, 36 
doubles) might even get better. The lineup 
also includes big hitters Leon Durham (23, 
96, .279), Davis (19, 94, .256) and Moreland 
(16, 82, .291).
I do not think Cey will have another year 
like last year, and Davis showed signs of slip
ping last year. The bench is very weak after 
losing Henry Cotto, who hit .274 and often 
spelled Gary Matthews (14, 82, .274) defen
sively in left field.
The loss of Stoddard is bigger than many 
realize, just as the loss of Ron Davis was to 
the Yankees bullpen with Rich Gossage a few 
years ago.
The Cubs are strong, but I think Gary 
Carter will make up the 6.5 games that the 
Mets finished behind the Cubs last season. 
Keys: Cey and Dunston.
Philadelphia PhilliesDefinite con
tenders, but serious holes that have yet to 
be filled.
Hole one and the biggest hole of all is at 
shortstop, where even die-hard 
Phillie fans are yelling help!. 
Last years shortstop Ivan DeJesus (0, 35, .257) didnt stop much, mak
ing 29 errors and exhibiting limited range 
and was traded last week to the Cardinals. 
Steve Jeltz, who has a major league glove but 
is a serious liability on offense (2, 46, .220 
with Triple-A Portland) starts the season as 
the shortstop, leaving only Ozzie Smith as 
a return starter at short in the NL East. The 
Pirates sent Dale Berra to the Yanks, the Ex
pos will start former Met Hubie Brooks, who 
will be replaced by Rafael Santana. The 
Cubs have given the job to Shawon Dunston 
over Larry Bowa. And even Ozzie may be 
gone soon. Another Phillie possibility is the 
move of third baseman Rick Schu (17, 72, 
.301 with Portland) to shortstop.
Another hole is at first base, where it 
seemed Len Matuszek would finally win the 
position. But he was traded to Toronto to
open the job for rookie John Russell. Russell 
had been battling with Glenn Wilson for the 
rightfield job. Now both Russell (19, 77, 
.289 for Portland) and disappointing exTiger Wilson (6, 31, .240) will have jobs, 
with Tim Corcoran (.341) ready to take 
either one.
The third hole is in second baseman Juan 
Samuels glove. Samuel committed 33 errors 
and had trouble converting the double play. 
He also led the major leagues in striking out, 
showing he often has a hole in his bat, too. 
Half of his 168 Ks would be poor for a 
leadoff hitter. He has tremendous speed (a 
rookie record 72 steals) and good power (15, 
69, .272), but he must plug the holes.
Look for left fielder Jeff Stone to bat 
leadoff this year. Stone struck out a 
mediocre 26 times in 185 at-bats, but bat
ted .362 with 27 stolen bases in 51 games. 
He is faster than even Samuel or center 
fielder Von Hayes (16, 67, .297, 48 steals). 
With Stone, Samuel and Hayes at the top 
of the order, the Phils should steal over 200 
bases and score a lot of runs. Superstar Mike 
Schmidt (36, 106, .277) will be knocking 
most of them in, with help from Wilson, 
Russell, Hayes and catcher Ozzie Virgil (18,
68, .261).
But with their fielding and pitching, the 
Phils will give up more than their share, too. 
The starting rotation stars solid veterans in 
John Denny (7-7, 2.45 after elbow surgery) 
and Steve Carlton (13-7, 3.58). After that, 
the Phils are counting on Jerry Koosman 
(14-15, 3.25), who soon will be getting his 
social security checks; Shane Rawley (10-6, 
3.81 with Phils), who has shown inconsistent 
cy as a starter; and Charles Hudson (9-11, 
4.04), who has not been a reliable pitcher 
since his rookie year.
The bullpen is bad. A1 Holland is over
rated, and while one writer calls Larry 
Andersen a Willie Hernandez clone (HA!), 
his 2.38 ERA came in non-pressure situa
tions. Holland (5-10, 3.39, 29 saves) and Bill 
Campbell (6-5, 3.43, 1 save) are not the 
stoppers they used to be. Keys: Wilson and 
Hudson. If Wilson hits like everyone thinks 
he can and Hudson has a good year, the 
Phils may return to the NL playoffs. If not, 
they will finish behind the rebuilt Pirates.
Pittsburgh PiratesGeneral Manager
Pete Peterson did some thing many GMs 
dont dohe recognized his teams strengths 
and weaknesses, and then traded from his 
strengths to fill in the holes.
The Pirates strength is pitching, so Johnf
 Tudor was sent to St. Louis for i 
George Hendrick (9, 69, .277), 
who should help fill the main-'
,ehbzI' hole the Pirates had, outfield 
power.
Peterson then went out and got more 
potential power in Steve Kemp (7, 41, .297) 
and Sixto Lezcano(14, 40, .277). Hendrick 
had an off year last year, but averaged over 
20 homers per year from 1973-83. Kemp 
and Lezcano were platooned with the Yanks 
and Phils last year, and may be again this 
year.
Pitching is again the strength of the team, 
so strong that ace lefty John Candelaria; 
(12-11, 3.72) will be sent to the bullpen to 
be the lefty stopper.
Keys to this team lie on the left side of the r 
infield and the starting rotation. Manager 
Chuck Tanner is counting on rookie Mike 
Bielecki (19-3, 2.97 at AAA-Hawaii) as a 
starter, as well as Lee Tunnell (1-7, 5.27), 
who had a terrible year in long relief last 
year.
Third baseman Bill Madlock, a career 
.312 hitter, had a year that he termed a 
bad year for all of us. Madlock hit a career 
low .253 with just four homers. New/former' 
Pirate shortstop Tim Foli (0, 16, .252) hopes 
to rekindle the Pirate spirit of 1979.
The Pirates best remains at catcher, 
where gold glove winner Tony Pena can hit 
(15, 78, .268) as well as field, and at second 
base, where Johnny Ray (6, 67, .312) is 
becoming one of the toughest outs in the 
game. Keys: Bielecki, Madlock.
Montreal ExposExcept for possibly the 
Cubs, this is the weakest fielding left side of 
an infield in the league, with converted third 
baseman Hubie Brooks at shortstop and 
Tim Wallach at third base. Tim Raines is 
going to be running after a lot of grounders 
in left field.
Perhaps Gary Carters attitude has kept 
this team from reaching its 
heralded potential. But it is
__hard for me to believe that a
tension release will make up for -

---------------------------------------------------

April 9, 1985The TartanPage 21
Preview
e loss of his 27 homers and 106 runs. I 
ont think it was Carters attitude that hurt 
dre Dawsons knees, or Terry Franconas 
ees, or Steve Rogers arm.
And I think Tim Raines, though the best 
adoff hitter in the game, is a hypocrite
 is a guy who had serious drug problems
o years ago, and hes mouthing off about 
e clean-cut Carter? Stick to baseball, not 
chology.
The Expos should be strong offensively 
th Raines (8, 60, .309, 75 stolen bases) at 
e top of the order and a healthy Andre 
awson (17, 86, .248) to knock him in. 
awson will have help from first baseman 
anDriessen (16, 60, .269), Brooks (17,59,
83 with Mets), newly acquired Vance Law
7, 59, .252 with White Sox) and Wallach
8, 72, .246).
Rookie centerfielder Herm Winningham, 
cquired from the Mets in the Carter deal, 
ould add speed to an already quick top 
f the order. Winningham hit .407 in a 
eptember stint with the Mets. He is a key 
the Expos hope to go anywhere.
The starting pitching is very questionable, 
epending on the arm of Rogers (6-15, 
.31). Bill Gullickson (12-9, 3.61) and ali
ar Charlie Lea (15-10, 2.86) are solid, but 
ea has been injured early this year. Bryn 
nith (12-13, 3.32) should also help. The 
ullpen has injury-prone Jeff Reardon and 
iry little else.
It is hard to see the weaknesses on this 
am, but they always seem to show 
lemselves in the end. Keys: Rogers and 
Winningham, plus Dawsons knees.
St. Louis CardinalsPlain and simple 
ftitey Herzog has got to be getting senile.
11982, just three short years ago, the Carinals won the World Series. Where is that 
jam now?
First baseman Keith Her
nandez is leading the Mets. His 
replacement, David Green, is on 
the Giants. Third baseman Ken 
now plays for the Braves. Home 
n and RBI leader George Hendrick will 
n the Pirates uniform this year. Ace* 
iever Bruce Sutter will play for Ted 
rners Braves. And with the recent acsition of shortstops Ivan Dejesus and Jose 
uendo, the end seems near for the wizarof Ozzie Smith.
Remaining are a group of role players 
th no one to lead them except possibly 
wcomer Jack Clark (11, 44, .320 with 
ants in only 57 games). Clark will be the 
Jy semblance of a power hitter in St. 
Uls. as hendrick was two years ago.
loss of Sutter caused Herzog to say 
t he would be 25 games dumber this 
r' They may be 25 games worse. The rest 
lhe NL east has improved, while the 
r(k got worse.
he starting rotation as a whole ranges 
>m mediocre to pathetic. After 20-gamelneryet erratic Joaquin Andujar (20-14, 
and solid lefty John Tudor (12-11, 3.27 
Pirates) there is nothing that even 
^rves to be written down, so I wont. 
eil Allen will be the new bullpen ace." 
ssible, this can only give Herzog more 
y hair.
^rst baseman Andy Van Slyke, along 
^eizog, may have single-handedly 
tryed this team. Herzog was so impressVWt^ ^an Slykes ability that he traded 
nandez to the Mets to open a spot for 
>ke, who didnt respond. He was swit^t0 third base, and Oberkfell was tradan Slyke his just .244 with seven 
rs Now Green has been traded, and 
yke moves back to first. Herzog still
^fe!-1slating th.at Slyke  aPht<WjflaVh",>' a 'possibility raised
erkfell
to him during the off-season.
This is Jack Clark plus a lot of singles hit 
ters and a very short pitching staff. Mr. 
Clark, you would have been better off with 
the Giants. The Cards are the only team in 
the NL East that dont have a chance. 
Thanks Whitey. Keys: Van Slyke, Lonnie 
Smith.
National League West
Los Angeles DodgersOften times my 
rating system is not perfect. If a team has 
a large advantage in one area, it does not 
take that margin- into account. So here in 
the NL West (and only in the NL West) I 
am throwing out the ratings system, due to 
the phenomenal Dodger starting staff.
Some people have picked the Braves over 
the Dodgers. It is my contention that Atlan
ta doesnt have a pitcher who could even 
make the Dodgers starting rotation. Fer
nando Valenzuela is at best the third starter 
on the team. The staff is led by NL ERA 
champ Alejandro Pena (12-6,2.48) and. 
Orel Hershiser (11-8, 2.66, league leading 
four shutouts).
Valenzuela got very little help 
/from his offense last year, 
finishing 12-7 despite an ex
cellent 3.03 ERA. He is follow
ed in the rotation by Bob Welch (13-3, 3.78) 
and lefty Rick Honeycutt (11-8, 2.66).
The sixth starter is Jerry Reuss, who is 
paid one million dollars a year, yet will pro
bably be a long reliever.
The question remains in the offense. 
Everyone and their brother had an off year 
in 1984. In order for the Dodgers to win, 
Pedro Guerrero (16, 72, .303) must have 
higher power stats than last year. So does 
Mike Marshall (21, 65, .257).
But the key to making this team go is the 
top of the batting order, namely Steve Sax 
and Ken Landreaux. Sax (1, 35, .243) had 
a horrible year at bat and in the field. He 
has to return to about .280 and steal at least 
50 bases. Landreaux must also get on base 
so the big guys, Guerrero, Marshall and 
Greg Brock (14, 34, .225) can knock him 
and Sax in.
The starting pitchers can only throw 
shutouts so often, but I think the offense will 
be good enough to get the rotation and 
bullpen, led by Steve Howe and Ken Howell, 
to the playoffs. If they hit another team 
drought, they might finish last. Keys: Sax 
and Brock.
San Diego PadresToo much is being 
made of the LaMarr Hoyt acquisition. This 
is an overweight 18 game loser with a 4.47 
ERA. Meanwhile, the Padres have lost Ed 
Whitson (14-8, 3.24) and Tim Lollar (11-13) 
from the starting rotation. They also gave 
up right-handed hitting third baseman Luis 
Salazar, and they are replacing him with 
very light hitting Jerry Royster (1, 21, .207 
with Braves).
The Padres picked up Tim 
Stoddard to strengthen an 
already strong bullpen led by 
Goose Gossage (10-6, 2.90, 25 
saves) and lefty Craig Lefferts (3-4, 2.13, 10 
saves).
The Padres must get better numbers from 
Steve Garvey (8, 86, .284) and Terry Ken
nedy (14, 57, .240). Kevin McReynolds (20, 
75, .280) is a budding star, and Carmelo 
Martinez (13, 66, .250) should knock in a 
lot more runs in his career.
Alan Wiggins (3, 34, .258) is a good 
leadoff man, but the star of the lineup is 
rightfielder Tony Gwynn (5, 71, .351). Last 
years batting champ gets the bat on ball as 
well as anyone in baseball. He struck out just 
23 times in 609 at bats.
But I dont think the^rest of the team is 
} that gooltiiey we re j usf2 8 -1 & after August
1 last year, and who knows how they will 
recover from the World Series thrashing at 
the hands of the Tigers.
This is still a good club, but I think it may 
have lost something in depth in both hitting 
and pitching from last year. They will give 
the Dodgers and Astros a great race. Keys: 
Hoyt and Kennedy.
Houston AstrosDickie Thon is hitting 
.387 in spring training. With a healthy 
Thon, the Astros are potential contenders. 
Without him they will finish in the second 
division of the NLs second division.
Thon was becoming the best 
all-around shortstop in the Na
tional League when he was 
struck with a Mike Torrez 
fastball in the seasons fifth game. The pitch 
broke his eye socket and caused serious eye 
damage. But he is starting to see the ball 
again. Thon hits for power, average and has 
excellent speed and a solid to spectacular 
glove. Thon and third year second sacker 
Bill Doran (4, 41, .261) are the best young 
DP combo in the West.
Photo courtesy The Sporting News
The Padres Kevin McReynolds.
The outfield is strong, but Manager Bob 
Lillis should not toy with moving Jerry 
Mumphrey. Mumphrey batted .290 with 83 
RBIs and played in the all-star game. Isnt 
that enough? This guy gets a bad rap 
wherever he goes. He batted .301 for the 
Yankees and George Steinbrenner tore him 
up in the press. Let the guy play. With Thon 
in the lineup, he might hit .300 with 100 
RBI.
The outfield also has Jose Cruz (12, 95, 
.312) and Terry Puhl (9, 55, .301). The out
field should average .300, but probably 
wont hit 30 homers. The only power on this 
team is Thon and big catcher Mark Bailey 
(9, 34, .212). It is the one glaring weakness 
on the team. The Astrodome fences were 
moved in, which should help.
The rotation is strong, starring fireballer 
Nolan Ryan (12-11, 3.04), knuckleballer Joe 
Niekro (16-12, 3.04), and finesse pitcher 
Bob Knepper (15-10, .320). The bullpen is 
perfectly balanced with righties Bill Dawlev 
i. 9$, fca^esy D&te Smith (U -4,
2.21, 5 saves) and lefties Frank DiPino (4-9, 
3.38, 14 saves) and Joe Sambito (0-0, 3.02).
With no injuries, this team could be very, 
very good. With them, they wont be. And 
there are some good, young teams waiting 
to take the top spots. Keys: Thon and 
Mumphrey.
San Francisco GiantsThis is the best 
outfield in the West, and maybe in the 
whole league, even after giving up Jack 
Clark. Centerfielder Dan Gladden was bat
ting .397 for Phoenix before the Giants 
brought him up in mid-season. He went on 
to bat .351 in 86 major league games while 
stealing 31 bases and he had a .410 on-base 
percentage. These were the same numbers 
Gwynn had for San Diego.
With Chili Davis (21, 81, 
.315) and Jeff Leonard (21, 86, 
.302), this is a fantastic outfield. 
Add catcher Bob Brenly (20, 80, 
.291) and first baseman David Green (15, 
65,..268 with St. Louis) and what you have 
is an explosive offensive team.
The Giants are solid up the middle with 
Brenly, Gladden, second baseman Manny 
Trillo (4, 36, .254) and rookie shortstop Jose 
Gonzalez, an excellent defensive player pick
ed up along with Green, pitcher Dave La
Point and first baseman Gary Rajsich, who 
will add a lefty bat off the bench.
The pitching is very suspect. Atlee Hammaker (2-0, 2.18) led the league with a 2.25 
ERA in 1983, but pitched just 33 innings last 
year. He must come back strong if this team 
is to do anything.
LaPoint (12-10, 3.96 with St. Louis) will 
be counted on to win at least 12 again. Mike 
Krukow (11-12, 4.56) should be a better pit
cher than he showed last year. Lefty Vida 
Blue is looking to make a big comeback, and 
was throwing the ball well in spring train
ing. All of the pitchers, including reliever 
Greg Minton, must be overachievers for the 
Giants to contend. Keys: Hammaker and 
Brenly.
Atlanta BravesThe Braves will prove 
to have less starting pitching than the 
Giants. Pascual Perez (14-8, 3.74) spends 
too much time being a hot dog to get any 
respect. Rick Mahler (13-10, 3.12) will have 
to repeat last year before he gets any. The 
Braves are counting on ex-stopper Steve 
Bedrosian as a starter. If he is good, the 
Braves will finish much higher.
Everyone is picking the 
Braves much higher because of 
the acquisiton of Bruce Sutter (5_7 j 54 NL record 45saves).
But the bullpen of Bedrosian, Donnie 
Moore (now with Angels), Terry Forster and 
Gene Garber wasnt bad last year.
While they are very strong in centerfield, 
where Dale Murphy (36, 100, .290, 19 stolen 
bases) carries his tag as perhaps the best allaround player in baseball today, they are 
weak at several positions. The new catcher 
is Rick Cerone, who hit .208 in limited ac
tion with the Yanks last season.
Second baseman Glenn Hubbard hit just 
.234 last season, and he is far from a gem 
in the field. Left field is still unoccupied, but 
the leading candidate is Brad Komminsk, 
who hit .203 for the Braves last year.
The return of Bob Horner for opening 
day should help the Braves, if he can stay 
healthy. Without him, this is a team with 
bad pitching that hit .247 last year. With 
him, it is a team with a one-two punch that 
ranks up there with Murray-Ripken, 
Mattingly-Winfield, Carter-Strawberry and 
Rice-Armas. But why would I think he will 
stay healthy. He never has before. Keys: 
Horner and Mahler.
( >,< fi f 1 toAtiHued bh pig^22

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanApril 9, 1985
Tigers picked to win American league title
continued from page 21
Cincinnati Reds: Manager Pete Rose is 
trying to win games on adrenaline and 
spirit. Sorry, Pete. Sorry team. Mario Soto 
is the best proven righthanded starter in 
baseball today. Thats about all the good 
stuff I have to say about this team.
It is a team of semi-washed up veterans 
like Dave Concepcion (4, 58, .245), Cesar 
Cedeno(10, 47, .276), and yes, Pete himself 
(0, 11, .369 with Reds, .259 with Expos). 
Dave Parker (16, 94, .285) does not yet fall 
into this category. Yet.
The Reds are very high on rookie centerfielder Eric Davis, who batted just .224 in 
57 games with the Reds last year. He will 
probably get better. But the Reds were very 
high on Gary Redus three years 
ago, only to give Cedeno his leftfield job after Redus batted just 
.254 with little power.
Third base will be manned by Nick 
Esasky and Wayne Krenchicki. Big names. 
Lots of K sounds. And thats what Esasky 
usually does, Ks. Esasky (10, 45, .193) 
struck out 103 times in 322 at bats. Thats 
just plain pathetic.
Rose will look to young pitchers Jay Tibbs
(6-2, 2.86) and Jeff Russell (6-18, 4.26) to 
support Soto (18-7, 3.53, league high, 13 
complete games). They will again pitch to 
.209 hitter Dann Bilardello. I thought that 
the Reds would give a shot to minor league 
player of the year Alan Knicely (33, 126, 
.333) in AAA-Wichita behind the plate, but 
I was wrong. Or maybe they were.
Good luck, Pete. Keys: Davis and star
ting pitchers.
American League East
Detroit Tigers  Despite improvement 
of every AL East club, the Tigers will still 
be the Beast of the East. They are too 
strong up the middle and on the mound, 
and Sparky Anderson gets everything from 
every man on his roster.
Shortshop Alan Trammell (14,
69, .314) and second baseman 
Lou Whitaker (13, 56, .289) are 
the best fielders in the league at their posi
tions and are potent offensive threats. They 
make the best DP combo in the last ten 
years, bar none. Sparky toyed with the idea 
of moving Whitaker to third to open a posi
tion for rookie infielder Chris Pittaro. He 
wised up quickly and moved Pittaro to third 
instead, where he will open the season.
Jack Morris (19-11, S.60), Danf Pfetry (18-8, 
3.24) and Milt Wilcox (17-8, 4.00) all had 
great records last year, and the addition of 
former Met Walt Terrell (11-12, 3,52) bolsters 
the rotation. Add the awesome bullpen of 
Willie Hernandez (9-3, 1.92, 32 saves, Cy 
Young and MVP) and Aurelio Lopez (10-1, 
2.94, 14 saves) and you have a team that 
gives up very few runs.
Drop in ingredients such as Kirk Gibson 
(27, 91, .282), Lance Parrish (33, 98, .237), 
Chet Lemon (20, 76, .287) and a cast of 
thousands at first base and left field, and 
youve got a powerhouse team that is going 
to be very difficult to beat. All that could 
hurt this team is a lack of output from Gib
son or a total collapse of Hernandez. Keys: 
Gibson and Hernandez (possibly Pittaro).
New York Yankees  More power than 
a raging Tiger, more speed than flying Blue 
Jays, as much relief as Rolaids, but not 
enough start to pass the leaders.
Ron Guidry (10-11, 4.51) is without a 
doubt the key to this teams chances. If he 
can once again approach the 20-win level, 
the Yankees will be a formidable squad. 
Without him, the Yanks rotation borders on 
wretched.
Every T1 calculator comes with 
one extra number.
1-800-TI-CARES
When you buy a Texas 
Instruments calculator you 
dont just buy a calculator, you 
buy Texas Instruments commitment to quality.
its a commitment backed 
by a fully developed service 
network that includes the 
above toll-free number you can 
call from anyplace in the 
United States.
If you have any applications,
operations, or service questions, 
call us Monday thru Friday 
between 9 am and 4 pm CST, 
and well be glad to help.
If your calculator needs 
repairing, well direct you to 
one of our 46 conveniently 
located service centers for an 
immediate exchange. Under 
warranty, its free. If theres no 
center near you, well do it all 
by mail.
Of course, theres just one 
catch. It has to be a Texas 
Instruments calculator. But 
then, if youre as smart as we 
think you are, why wouldnt 
it be?
andis . 
pgs2Pr1ng2s
Creating useful products 
and services for you.
A healthy John Montef J 
would be a great help to 
Yanks. A healthy j0u 
Montefusco would also be 
miracle, so the Yanks ought not count o I 
Ed Whitson (14-8, 3.24) will-be the nUnl 
three starter behind Phil Niekro (16-8 3 qJ 
and Guidry. In the pen is Dave Righetti(j (1 
2.34, 33 saves), who shouldnt be, but Y 
Berra and Mr. Steinbrenner have no choi
It is an excellent fielding, solid hi 
team. Leading off the parade is newly J 
quired centerfielder Rickey Henderson (1
58, .293, 66 SB), followed by the solidsel 
cond baseman Willie Randolph (2 jj 
.287). Then comes the big trio of Don Mai 
tingly (23, 110, .343), Dave Winfield (J 
100, .340) and Don Baylor (27, 89, ,2 
Mattingly and Winfield finished one-two iJ 
the AL batting race, Mattingly winning 1 
the wire with a 4-5 performance.
Key players are youngsters on the left ad 
of the infield, shortstop Bobby Meachamd 
25, .253) and slickfielder hot comen 
Mike Pagliarulo (7, 34, .239). These i 
must play well defensively if the Yanks 
to contend. Pag will platoon with Yogiss 
Dale Berra (9, 52, .222) at third.
As with so many teams, the Yankee j 
chers must be overachievers in order to e 
?eys: Guidry and Meacham.
Boston Red Sox  Go to the New Yor 
Yankees review and read it. Fill in underpij 
chers the names Clemens, Boyd and Hu 
and under the powTer hitters try Armas, 1 
Easier and Evans. There you have the 1 
Sox review.
Seriously, the Red Sox 1 
incredible power. The outfield o| 
Tony Armas, Jim Rice 
Dwight Evans combined for lij 
homers and 349 runs batted in. Addl 
Mike Easier (27,91,.313) and catcherl 
Gedman (24, 72, .269) and you haveatoi 
ly out of control offense.
But wait, they have singles hitters andjf 
hitters, too. Bill Buckner (11, 67, .278),! 
ty Barrett (3, 45, .303) and Wade Boggsf 
55, .325) will spend a lot of timeio 
around the bases after home runs.
With the Red Sox, young pitchers e 
make of break this team. Fireballer 1 
Clemens (9-4, 4.32) has superstar potentii 
Dennis Oil Can Boyd (12-12, 4.37), Bn 
Hurst (12-12, 3.92) and A1 Nipper i 
3.89) will join Clemens in the rotation 
were inconsistent last year, and if thisi 
continued on |
6**0
-m JTUNIVERSITYOF
Miami
PLAN TO BE 
IN MIAMI
 MASTER S DEGREE 
IN URBAN PLANNING 
48 credit program.
Urban Design, Community 
Planning, Environmental 
Planning, Developing 
Nations.
 DUAL MASTERS DEGREES 
Planning with Business or 
Public Administration, 
or International Studies. 
(64 to 54 credits)
 GRADUATE ASSISTANTSHIPS 
Apply by April 15, 1985.
Director
Urban & Regional Planning 
Program 
School of Architecture
RO. Box 249178N
Coral Gables, FL 33124
Telephone: (305) 284 3731

---------------------------------------------------

April 9, 1985The TartanPage 23
lays bolster bullpen; Tribe should be patient
ntinued from page 22
istency is evident this year, look for Boston
[o finish fifth.
Bob Ojeda has joined Bob Stanley (9-10, 
s 54 22 saves) in the bullpen, which should 
help that sore spot.
Prediction is that the BoSox pitching will 
. good, but not good enough to get them 
jjVer the top. Keys: Clemens and Hurst.
Baltimore Orioles  With Mike 
Flanagan, this team could win the division, 
lut they wont have the big lefty until July 
ecause of a basketball injury.
They are still capable of winning it all. 
he offseason acquisition of Fred Lynn (23, 
19 .271) and Lee Lacy (12, 70, .321) add 
lunch to a lineup that already includes the 
Lg two, Eddie Murray and Cal Ripken.
The two stars played in all 
162 games last season. Ripken 
has played 442 straight games in 
which he has played every innLg of every game. The two combined to hit 
6 homers and knocked in 196 runs.
But the Orioles still have holes. Rich 
bauer (2, 24, .254) has become a liability
Photo courtesy The Sporting News
20-game winner Mike Boddicker.
for the 1985 Stanford Summer Session Bulletin and application, mail this coupon to Stanford Summer Session. Building 10. Stanford University, Stanford. CA 94305.
STANFORD 
SUMMER
N24 THROUGH AUCUST17
- uuents in good standing ire invited to attend
on offense and defense at second base. Rick 
Dempsey (11, 34, .230) has never been a good 
offensive player. There are no solid 
designated hitters.
The point is that in the AL East you can
not have weaknesses on offense and expect 
to win. You can never let up, the talent is 
just too much.
The Orioles staff is led by Mike Boddicker 
(20-11, 2.79), Storm Davis (14-9, 3.12) and 
Scott McGregor (15-12, 3.94). Rookie pitcher 
Ken Dixon (16-8, 2.85 in AA-Charleston) 
will round out the starting rotation. Keys: 
the quick return of Flanagan and the play 
of Lynn.
Toronto Blue Jays  If Toronto manager 
Bobby Cox can get the same production out 
of his third base, catching and DH positions, 
then his team will win. If he cant, they 
wont.
Lefthanded third sacker Ranee Mulliniks 
hit .324 last year, while righty Garth Iorg 
hit just .227. Catchers Ernie Whitt and Buck 
Martinez combined for 20 homers, 83 RBIs 
and solid defensive play. These are role 
players that must perform above their heads 
once again.
Dave Collins to Oakland for 
relief ace Bill Caudill (9-7, 2.71, 
36 saves). The Jays then sent spot starter Jim 
Gott to the Giants for Gary Lavelle (5-4, 
2.76, 12 saves). The pickups give the Jays a 
legitimate lefty-righty bullpen combination.
Dave Stieb (16-8, 2.83) should become a 
20-game winner with a solid bullpen. He 
heads a staff that includes Doyle Alexander 
(17-6, 3.13), Luis Leal (13-8, 3.89) and Jim 
Clancy (13-15, 5.12). Clancy must be a con
sistently solid pitcher for the Jays to contend.
Tony Fernandez (3, 19, .270 in 70 games) 
will replace Griffin at short and combine 
with Damaso Garcia (5,46,.284,46 SB) 
to make a formidable middle defense. 
Centerfielder Lloyd Moseby (18, 92, .280) 
will also help.
George Bell (26, 87, .292) will be a big 
star when the season is over. Keys: Clancy 
and Mulliniks.
Cleveland Indians  Patience. If the 
new Tribe management is patient with these 
young players, they will be contenders soon. 
Right now, Bert Blyleven is the only 
established pitcher (19-7, 2.87 last year).
Vem Ruhle is the number two starter, and 
he was 1-9 last year with Houston.
Andre Thornton (33, 99, .271) 
will lead a group of young hit
ters into action as soon as he 
comes off the disabled list. Un
til then, Joe Carter (13, 41, .275 in just 66 
games), Julio Franco (3, 79, .286), Mel Hall 
(7, 30, .257 with Cleveland) and Chris Bando (12, 41, .291 in 75 games).
Ernie Camacho came out of a group of 
relievers to save a club-record 23 games.
Patience is the key. Wait for the young pit
chers and hitters such as third baseman 
Brook Jacoby and U.S. Olympian Cory 
Snyder to mature. A solid foundation is be
ing built in Cleveland. Keys: Neal Heaton 
and Bando.
Milwaukee BrewersBoth 1982 World 
Series participants will finish in last place 
this year. In the case of the Brewers, the cast 
of characters remained the same while 
everyone else improved.
Returning from injuries are Robin Yount, 
Paul Molitor, Pete Vuckovich and Rollie 
Fingers. But the Brewers should realize that 
the future is towmorrow. These players are 
continued on page 24
Now see Europe at 
amore reasonable rate.
With Hertz, you can see Europe from a first class 
compartment that stops anywhere you want and goes 
whenever youre ready. And whether you share that com
partment with three friends or just one, Hertz will cost 
you less than Eurail. At a level of convenience that takes 
the commotion out of locomotion.
As long as youre 18 years old you can rent a car from 
Hertz* And you can reserve it just seven days before 
renting, without paying in advance. Whats more, our 
rates are guaranteed. And theres never a charge for mile
age. Plus, by renting from Hertz you can get discounts at 
over 3,000 hotels throughout Europe.For details and reservations, talk to a travel agent or 
call Hertz at 1-800-654-3001. Bccause even if youre on a stu
dent budget, you shouldnt have to see Europe on a pass.
Please send me more information on how Hertz can save me money in Europe J 
Name_________________________________________
Addrcss_
Send to: Hertz Affordable Europe PO Box 2692 Snuthiown. NY 117*7
______I
Ttel wav to rent a car.
ffspWMl'lllI
--------------i>wii|t Mmk Htun. upuuaal CD. Ml ari m^a itept  fcifcun of partK^MMg hncfc ruiki

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24The TartanApril 9, 1985
ChiSox will regain West division dominance

continued from page 23
still decent, but they arent anything special 
anymore.
The Brewers have started 
slowly, with catcher Bill 
Schroeder (14,25, .257 in 61 
games) and pitcher Ted 
Higueras (8-7 in AA). But the Brewers have 
a long way to go. Milwaukee is the only team 
going downhill while the rest of the division 
improves. Keys: everyone must play like it 
was 1982.
American League West:
Chicago White Sox: Ah, yes, the division 
no one really cares about, at least here.
The Chisox will regain the dominance 
that they had in 1983 due to a very strong 
pitching staff. Tom Seaver (15-11, 3.95) had 
a 2.10 spring ERA. Lefties Floyd Bannister 
(14-11, 4.83), Britt Bums and Tim Lollar 
(11-13, 3.91) are all below 2.30. Richard 
Dotson, a 22-game winner in 1983, rounds 
out the staff.
Rookie shortstop Ozzie 
Guillen should be exciting to 
-i~i~r watch> 'vith some people already 
calling him the next wizard. 
Harold Baines (29, 94, .304) and Greg
Walker (24, 75, .294) lead a potentially po
tent offense that includes Carlton Fisk, Ron 
Kittle (32 homers) and speedy Julio Cruz, 
who must improve on his .222 batting 
average.
Bob James is the new bullpen short man. 
James (6-6, 3.66, 10 saves) comes from the 
Expos, where he was a set up man for Jeff 
Reardon. Keys: Kittle, Lollar and James.
Minnesota Twins: A good, young team 
that will wan this division soon. As Manager 
Billy Gardner pointed out, the team wont 
win without a good season from short 
reliever Ron Davis. Davis did save 29 games 
last year, but he had a terrible 4.55 ERA.
The Twins have an impressive array of 
young hitters, the best of which is first 
baseman Kent Hrbek(27, 107, .311). Hrbek 
was runner-up to Willie Hernandez in 1984s 
MVP voting.
Other power sources include 
Tom Brunansky (32, 85 .254) 
and second baseman Tim 
Teufel (14, 61, .262). The 
Twins need power from third baseman Gary 
Gaetti (5, 65, .262), who hit 21 homers in 
1983, and shortstop Roy Smalley (11, 59,
THIS BUD'S 
FOR YOU.
r 11ULU LUUI icajr At*,* .....o
Greg Walker hit 24 homers for the 0 
Chicago White Sox to win a starting j
IF YOU NEED A 
LAWYER
CALL683 3555
 tAMII V I .AW DIVOKCt
C MUomp uteur utSumn
 ( KINIINAI I AW I KIAI. IHMNNf
MURRAY A. FELDER
A 1 lOKNt.V \l I .AW
3447 Forbes Ave. 
OAKLAND
.215).
Kirby Puckett was a solid rookie-of-theyear candidate last season, playing an ex
citing centerfield while hitting .296 and 
stealing 14 bases. He will be the Twins 
leadoff man.
The starting rotation is set with ace Frank 
Viola (18-12, 3.21), Mike Smithson (15-13, 
3.68) and John Butcher (13-11, 3.44), with 
the four and five spots going to rookie Rich 
Yett (12-9, 3.25 in Toledo) and either Bryan 
Oelkers or another youngster.
If the bullpen performs, and Smalley 
doesnt kick too many short, the Twins may 
have the talent to overtake the Sox. Keys: 
Gaetti and Davis.
Kansas City Royals: A good blend of 
youth and established stars will make this 
team a definite contender. But their pit
ching may still be a year away from enough 
experience to get by improved Sox and 
Twins teams.
The leaders will again be Willie Wilson 
(2, 44, .301, 47 SB), George Brett (13, 69, 
.284) and Frank White (17, 56, .271). 
Veteran catcher Jim Sundberg (7, 43, .261) 
was obtained from Milwaukee to handle the
youthful staff. Brett went on an off-Season 
conditioning program to avoid the injuries 
that have beset him in recent years.
Manager Dick Howser knew 
of Steve Balbonis power froni 
his days in the Yankee organic 
tion. Howser said that, given the 
chance, he would strike out a lot but hits 
lot of homers and knock in runs. And 
Balboni did just that, hitting 28 homers with 
77 RBIs while striking out 139 times. Also 
providing offense are outfielder Darryl 
continued on page 25
Attention Photographers
B&W Fiber Paper 
Available at 
discount price 
call
The Darkroom 
232 Penn Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
261-6056
SUDWEISEFMMtlNG Of 8fERS*ANKUSR 6USCH INC "ST LOUIS

---------------------------------------------------

April 9, 1985The TartanPage 25Mets
^ntinued from page 24
Motley (15. *284) an<i Pat Sheridan (8,
53 .283), DHs Hal McRae (3, 42, .303) and 
lorge Orta (9, 50, .298), and shortstop Onix
Concepcion (.282).
The kiddie corps rotation is led by 
27-year old Bud Black (17-12, 3.12), 28-year 
old Charlie Leibrandt (11-7, 3.63), 22-year 
old Mark Gubicza (1014, 4.05), 20-year old 
Bret Saberhagen (10-11, 3.48) and 23-year 
old Danny Jackson.
Of course, the starters need only pitch six 
or seven good innings, and then its Quiz 
time. Dan Quisenberry, who was 6-3 with 
44 saves and a 2.64 ERA, is an awesome 
relief pitcher who is unflappable and often
junhittable.
If the young pitchers come through like 
[last year, then the Royals have a shot. Keys: 
iSaberhagen, Gubicza, Motley.
Seattle Mariners: Another very young 
team led by American League rookie-of-theear Alvin Davis (27, 116, .284) and AL 
okie pitcher-of-the-year Mark Langston 
1(17-10, 3.40, AL leading 204 Ks).
A A big surprise was second 
baseman Jack Perconte, who 
I 11E was tried by many teams before 
I r 'H sticking with Seattle. Perconte 
ad 180 hits and finished the year with a 
[294 average. Offense was found in the bats 
j)fveteran A1 Cowens (15, 78,.277), DH Ken 
Phelps (24, 51, .241), and Dave Henderson 
[14, 43, .280).
The pitching staff was weak last season, 
rith the second worst ERA in the AL. Mike 
loore(7-l7, 4,97) and Matt Young (6-8, 
p2) must rebound from poor seasons for 
he Mariners to contend. Keys: Young, 
loore, Cowens.
California Angels: This is a very old 
earn in a very young division, but if the long 
1 of senility doesnt set in the Angels exerience may win the division.
After this long, it is easy to figure how 
obGrich(18, 58, .256), RodCarew(3, 31, 
295), and Reggie Jackson (25, 81, .223) are 
oing to play. Veterans Doug DeCinces (20, 
,269) and Brian Downing (23, 91, .275) 
ad good seasons as well.
But for this team to win, its 
youngsters must perform well. 
The kids are shortstop Dick 
Schofield (4, 21, .193) and 
Merfielder Gary Pettis (2, 29, .227). They 
oth showed tremendous ability in the field, 
|ut little at the plate.
The acquisition of Ruppert Jones (12, 37, 
4) from Detroit adds to an already deep 
ntfield including Juan Beniquez (8, 39, 
f36) and Mike Brown (7, 22, .284).
The pitchers are led by Mike Witt (15-11, 
p7), who capped his season with a perfect
,ACHI Send $2 for catalog of over 16,000 topics to assist your research efforts. For info., call toll- free 1-800-621-5745 (in II- J linols call 312-922-0300).Author R*rch, Rm 600-N 
\ 407 S OMrborn. Chicago. IL 60005
Help us adopt a baby!
offer an attractive legal 
a'ternative to the agency adop
tion process. We are a couple 
who can give your baby a lovln8, secure family. We have a
'Omfortable home, in a
dutiful, safe neighborhood 
Pitsburgh, and we want a 
. V fnore than anything else 
ln the world. We can pay all 
H^dical, counseling, and legal 
Expenses.
Please call: 531-9303
I.
game against Texas. Ron Romanick finish
ed 12-12 after making the jump from 
double-A.
Not enough pitching and not enough of
fense up the middle to make a run. Keys: 
DeCinces, Romanick, bullpen.
Oakland As: They filled some holes by 
trading stars Bill Caudill and Rickey 
Henderson. In return they got a shortstop 
in Alfredo Griffin, a speedy leftfielder in 
Dave Collins, and a relief pitcher in lay 
Howell.
They already have good 
players at third base, where 
Carney Lansford hit .300 with 
74 RBIs; in centerfield where
Dwayne Murphy patrolled to his fifth 
straight gold glove while hitting 33 home 
runs and knocking in 88 runs; and at DH, 
where Dave Kingman hit 35 homers with 
118 runs batted in.
The rest of the team really isnt worth 
mentioning. So I wont. Keys: Collins and 
starter Chris Codiroli.
Texas Rangers: Were in 
Pittsburgh, which is a long way 
from Arlington, Texas. The 
least important and least ex
citing division in baseball is the AL West. 
The worst team in the AL West is the Texas 
Rangers.
So, if you really, really want to know
about the Rangers, buy a baseball magazine 
and read it. Im not wasting the space. Keys: 
to the cellar.
Playoff outlook: The Mets will defeat the 
Dodgers and meet the Tigers in the World 
Series. The Tigers will win the Series, and 
ex-Met Walt Terrell will be the winning 
pitcher.
My pre-season choices for most valuable 
player are Eddie Murray of the Baltimore 
Orioles and Keith Hernandez of the Mets.
Enjoy the season. And if you dont agree 
with my picks, get your own paper and be 
the sports editor.
CMU Rugby club is having a numbers problem
By SCOTT BOZIC
Tartan Staffwriter
Its not just a job, its an adventure.
No, this isnt the U.S. Navy, its rugby. 
Rugby isnt the most popular sport here at 
CMU, but that doesnt matter to the 
members of the club who are out playing 
three to four days a week.
Checking the teams record, it can be 
noted that rugby has seen better days at 
CMU; but President Joe Villarreal feels that 
can be changed. Our biggest problem this 
year is turnout [or lack thereof], says Villar
real. Vice-President Mark Hoeke adds, We 
have the talent and athletic ability but not 
the numbers.
Villarreal feels that the lack of experience 
is also a problem and feels that if the tur
nout doesnt improve next year, the club may 
merge with another local club in order to
field a better team by alleviating the 
numbers problem. Both Villarreal and 
Hoeke are quick to point out that its not too
late to join this year, adding that not only 
is rugby a fun game, but its an easy sport 
to learn.
Short wins Rock meet
The CMU track team had some im
pressive individual performances at the 
Divison II Invitational Meet at Slippery Rock 
despite tough competition and team injury 
and illness.
Coach Gary Meckley sees it as a learning 
experience for the team. The competition 
at this meet was a lot tougher than we will 
see during the regular season, but I like to 
get the team members toughened up by 
scheduling this type of competiton.
Mike Short, a member of the debilitated 
distance group garnered a third and first 
place finish in the 800 and 1500 m runs.
Freshman Jeff Lester placed fourth and se
cond in the 200 and 100 m sprints. He is one 
of the young members of the team that are 
beginning to pick up the slack which oc
curred because of graduation.
Coach Meckley said, Were a young 
team, but were gradually getting better. If 
I can get back to coaching on a regular basis 
(without mononucleosis for about a month) 
well be very much open for improvement. 
All around, the coach feels he is not as 
negative about our chances to do well in the 
regular season this year.
[5,-ing >ol^atr(l11- 
toUfc"'
with __
N$US
Ask for Expert Advice 
on which Conditioner 
is right for you!
Lewis Hair Salon 
813 S. Aiken Ave. 
682-4063
Genuine NEXxlIS Products are sold only in professional hair styling salons.
Caving Adventure at LAUREL CAVERNS

---------------------------------------------------

Student Aid
TM
Microsoft offers Macintosh7 
owners all the answers to all your 
final tribulations. Everything youve 
ever wanted. For less.
Word. File. Chart. 
Multiplan. BASIC.
All at great student discounts. 
Microsoft Word doesnt limit you 
to 10 or even 50 pages, so its perfect 
for long term papers. It runs letter 
quality printers and works with 
your existing MacWrite files (so 
you dont lose any of your work). 
Microsoft File lets you organize any 
information from research notes to 
record collections. Microsoft Chart 
punctuates any statistic-filled report 
by letting you illustrate your point, 
graphically. For accounting or fi
nance, Microsoft Multiplan is the 
spreadsheet for the Macintosh. And 
with Microsoft BASIC, you can 
write your own programs.
Max your major.
Word, File, Chart and Multiplan 
work together, so you can easily
move information back and 
forth between them. And all use 
the same command MICROSOFT
, The High Performance Software"
structure.That means you can save 
valuable learning time.
And each works on the 128K or 
512K Macintosh. Not to mention 
that weve written more programs 
for Mac, so nobody knows Mac 
better than us. No other companys 
software can give you all this.
So if you want to be a more 
productive student, take Mac to the 
max. Check-out Microsoft at your 
campus store or call (800) 426-9400. 
In Washington State, call (206) 
828-8088 for more information.
Microsoft and Multiplan are registered trademarks and The High Performance Software 
is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation. MacWrite is a trademark and Macintosh is a trademark 
licensed to Apple Computer, Inc

---------------------------------------------------

gpCCMING MEMCreiEC
A New Play 
by Arthur Giron
Associate Professor of Drama,Carnegie-Mellon University
Family Portraits 
We All Share
A look back at the courtship, marriage and lives of five families through the eyes of their grandchildren.
1/2 PRICE STUDENT TICKETS ($6.75) 
AVAILABLE IN ADVANCEfor PERFORMANCES TUES. APR. 16, WED. APR. 17, THURS. APR. 18 AND TUES. APR. 23. Student tickets may also be purchased C2 hour before curtain (subject to availability, with student I.D.) for all performances April 16May 19.
Becoming Memories Forum with Playwright Arthur Giron and Director Lee Sankowich will follow 8:00 p.m. performance on Thursday, April 18.
APRIL 16MAY 19 * TICKETS321-9800
Pittsburgh Public Theater
The next wave of the Japanese business invasion is about to break...is it going to break you?
a The MUomp book 10 analyze the criticaluter hugely 
ignoredrole that Japanese marketing strategies have played in penetrating U.S. markets!
a The MUomp to sound the cry that Far East success in U.S. automobile, television, camera, and watch industries is only the beginning!
a "An indispensable tool for any company exposed to international competition."Michael E. Porter, Harvard Business School
a Written by internationally respected marketing authorities Philip Kotler, Liam Fahey, and S. Jatusripitak.
THE NEW, (pfnpj'fitKNi 
COMPETITION
WHAT THEORY Z 
DIDNT TELL YOU ABOUT  
MARKETING 
336 pages/$19.f5 
PRENTICE-HALL, INC.
PHILIP HOTLCR UAH FAHEY 5 JATUSRIPITAK
emu bookstore
IN BAKER HALL
Enhance
Your
Resume!
If you have at least 
two years of college left, 
you can spend six weeks at 
our Army ROTC Basic 
Camp this summer and earn 
approximately $600.
And if \ ^ou qualify, you 
can enter the ROTC 2- 
Year Program this fall and 
receive up to $1,000 a year.
But the big payoff 
happens on graduation day. 
Thats when you receive 
an officers commission.
So get your body in 
shape (not to mention your 
bank account).
Enroll in Army ROTC. 
For more information, 
contact your Professor of 
Military Science.
Carnegie-Mellon University
ySchenley Park, Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania 15213 '(412) 578-2205/2196
 MMC
Perry A. ColvinCaptain, United States ArmyDepartment of Military Science
ARMYROTC BEALLYOUCANBE.
The Tartan needs an 
Assistant Business 
Manager to handle 
classifieds, subscrip
tions, and more.
if your resume is suf
fering from acute 
sparseness, call The 
Tartan at x2in or x2H2.
Ask for the Business 
Manager.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Tuition may be going up nine percent in 1986-87. The total undergraduate tuition rate, if President Cyert approves the recommendations given to him by the Tuition Committee on April 1, will be $10,250.What can we say? Its happened before, itll probably happen again. Maybe, though, before we break out our Oreos, we should take into consideration why tuition is going up again. Maybe theres a good reason.The Tuition Committee made a report and submitted it to President Cyert on April 1. The Committee was composed of a cross-section of people from all walks of CMUs life: faculty, administrative personnel, students, and parents of CMU students. In several meetings during the semester, these people met and heard testimony from a number of different interests at the University, getting an understanding of the whole financial situation in the process. They based their recommendation on this testimony and subsequent debates.President Richard Cyert has had a policy of appointing a Tuition Committee for many years and has almost always followed the Committees recommendations in deciding upon a figure. We congratulate him on this policy, for it is a very sensible approach to the problem. A committee may take longer, but it comes up with a better-informed solution.The most memorable event involving a tuition hike and students occurred in October 1982, when President of Student Government Nate Solano and Senator Laura Sabadell led students in what has become known as the Cookie Rally, a protest of the 19% increase in tuition proposed for 1983-84. Five hundred students gathered on the Cut in front of Warner Hall, demonstrating with homemade signs; in an effort to be hospitable, a table with refreshments was set up compliments of the President. The students rejected the gesture, throwing cookies from the table back at the open windows of Warner Hall.While events like the Cookie Rally are a rarity, the general attitude which students take is any kind of tuition increase is bad. Granted, most will accept an increase for inflation, but beyond that, students think of their own pocketbooks first. Its an understandable attitude; there are a few students who probably wont back in 86 because of the increase and the effects of Reagans financial aid cuts. There will be many more who will be tightening belts until they hurt.Now try to imagine something. Imagine youre the head of a reseach project in MCS. Youve been told that your research has not been earmarked as many funds as you asked for, because your line of research has proven unprofitable. Or maybe the government has decided to emphasize other areas of research than yours. Youre going to have to find some funding or income  but where?Suppose youre Hunt Library Director Sylvema Ford. Due to student vandalism, youve had to close study rooms because you cant afford to keep them open, and hire more personnel to keep an eye on them. And at the same time, others keep pushing you to open the library 24 hours a day. What do you do? Where do you get the money?Pretend now that youre Akram Midani, Dean of CFA. Look at that Studio Theatre out there! Its so ridiculously small; in fact, there arent enough facilities for the Drama Department. Most of your other departments are scattered around the campus, located in Baker, Doherty and Margaret Morrison Halls. Youd like to consolidate; youre working on locations . . . but it sure isnt happening very quickly.Where is our money going? Is it really disappearing down a black hole of computer equipment expenses?No! This school is comprised of more than undergraduates. 
Only 30% of CMUs total operation budget comes from tui
tion. Does that mean the students should get 30 percent of the schools output? Of course not  but it certainly doesnt give the student body the right to ask for the world.As was stated in the Tuition Committees report:
Carnegie-Mellon University aspires to make important and in
novative contributions in research, education, and public service. 
While maintaining its small size, CMU has enlarged its scope in 
recent years from a regional technical school to an acknowledged 
national university ... CMU is committed to constant improve
ment, is not smug, and does not rest on its laurels.Part of this years increase is accounted for by inflation. The rest is accounted for in CMUs push to retain its level of excellence an abstract term which translates to high- quality faculty, top-notch programs, and improvements of conditions.Put your cookies away. Do you still think theyll help? Or would you rather ruin the investment youve made in a good school by letting it fall by the wayside?
Letters:
Clearing up a few misunderstandings
Editor,
The Tartan Greek Sing Supple
ment of March 12 ran a review of 
Kappa Alpha Thetas performance 
which stated Theta hired a profes
sional to coach them and later refer
red to a professional element. The 
Sisters of Kappa Alpha Theta would 
like to clarify these misstatements by 
simply saying that they are absolute
ly untrue and without basis. We were 
shocked to read this in The Tartan 
and our feelings were frankly hurt 
that, not only would this rumor cir
culate, but that it would be published 
for the campus to believe as fact. 
Most of all we were embarrassed that 
the other groups who had put so 
much time and effort into their pro
ductions might read this untruth and 
believe it.
We, the Sisters of Kappa Alpha 
Theta, would like to share with you 
some of our feelings about Greek 
Sing. To us, Greek Sing offers a varie
ty of opportunities to each sister as an 
individual and to the group as a 
whole. As all Greeks know, putting 
together any kind of 7 V6 minute 
show is a challenge. Each year we find 
in this challenge a time to work with 
our sisters in building house unity and 
spirit, and there is the chance to have 
fun together while contributing 
ourselves. It is also a chance for in
dividuals to show their talents, and 
for us to recognize and learn more 
about each other. Who would have 
thought that a Math major loved totap dance or that an English major 
could scat?
The competition of Greek Sing 
gives each house the chance to set a 
goal for itself. While one house might 
shoot for Best Overall, another might
wish to place, or just to go out and 
have a good time. We set several goals 
this year for ourselves, and they were 
repeated rehearsal after rehearsal. 
First, we wanted any sister to feel free 
to participate without selfconsciousness. Secondly, we wanted 
to pool all of our talents and do the 
best job we possibly could. It was 
repeated many times that every group 
had worked hard and deserved to do 
well. Our purpose was to contribute 
to this all-Greek effort by doing our 
best, and learning something about 
ourselves and each other in the 
process.
Managing any organization is dif
ficult, especially when financial con
siderations are introduced. At Theta 
we try to be sensitive to each persons 
needs and capabilities. This year our 
house Greek Sing expenditures were 
less than $150 and each participant 
made or borrowed her costume. 
There was certainly no money to be 
spent on a professional consultant. 
We feel, as surely the campus com
munity does, that Greek Sing's appeal 
lies in its amateur status. Each group 
draws on the strengths of its 
members. It would be very disap
pointing to us if Greek Sing 
degenerated into a monetary contest, 
and we would be just as hurt to hear 
of professional coaching for any other 
group.
Greek Sing offers the opportunity 
for each group to be recognized for 
their particular talents, while raising 
money for a very worthy cause. Each 
year the Sisters and Pledges of Kap
pa Alpha Theta try to root for every 
group, because it takes courage to 
step onto that stage whether youre 
about to sing, dance, orjust>have fun.*
Its a chance for us, together as 
Greeks, to take pride in our own 
houses, but also to break down the 
barriers in the pursuit of a common 
goal. We certainly hope that this let
ter has helped to correct the 
misstatements made, as well as 
clarified the goals which we will con
tinue to set for ourselves as sisters for 
many Greek Sings to come.
Sincerely yours,
The Sisters and Pledges of Kappa 
Alpha Theta
Editors Note:
The Tartan apologizes for the 
misinformation printed in the 
March 12 article, and for any 
damage it may have caused to the 
maembers of Kappa Alpha Theta 
sorority. We are also sorry to note 
the loss of an editor over this 
incident.We also wish to apologia t0 
the members of Sigma Alpha Ep
silon fraternity for a statement 
made in poor taste in last weeks 
Natrat. At the same time, wi 
wish to remind readers that The 
Natrat and^ all its contents v>ert 
not meant to be taken seriously
More 
Letters
t e . . .... continued on P9e
A different look at tuition
Tite TD/T/OfJ JjjU- HlK---------------------------------------------------

April 9, 1985The TartanPage 29
S.O.S.: Central America
Multinational corps, harm local economy
By CARLOS ZOZAYA-GOROSTIZA, 
RICHARD HONRATH, RENE
phohtbyMhikhoehth
Special to The Tartan
In previous articles we began to describe 
a background to the situation in El Salvador, 
briefly summarizing important political 
events of this century and relating the causes 
of the strife in that country to the economic 
conditions under which its citizens live. In 
this article, we will focus on another part of 
the problem: the United States economic in
terests in Central America, including both 
direct investment and financial support. We 
will include some examples on how these in
terests affect every aspect of Central 
American life.
US lobbyists who favor increased aid to 
Central America generally are members of 
financial and industrial corporations with 
investment or trade in the region. Over 1,400 
businesses in Central America have some US 
ownership, and 70 of the 100 largest US cor
porations conduct operations there, with 
total direct investment valued at approx
imately $4.2 billion (1980). Those corpora
tions with the largest investment in Central 
America include Coca Cola, Castle & Cooke 
(the marketer of Dole), Colgate-Palmolive, 
Exxon, Goodyear, Nabisco, Pepsico, Texaco, 
and Standard Oil of California among 
others.
Direct Investment
US corporations are attracted to Central 
America for several reasons. These include 
low wages and taxes, lack of health and safe
ty standards, very weak internal competi
tion, and very high rates of return on invest
ment (the US Department of Commerce 
reported a 19.6% rate of return in Latin 
America in 1979, compared to an average 
international rate of 7.6%). In addition, the 
economic power of these companies often 
gives them a strong influence on government 
decisions. Panama, for example, has a dutyfree entry for imports used in 
manufacturing.
The first transnational corporation to in
vest in Central America was United Fruit 
(now United Brands, which markets Chi
quita bananas). Thomas McCann, a VicePresident of United Fruit, stated that 
Guatemala was chosen as the site of the 
companys earliest development activities 
because at that time . .. Guatemala's 
government was the regions weakest, most 
corrupt, and most pliable. In 1953, United 
Fruit owned more than 3 million acres of 
land in Central America, most of which sat 
idle. The companys power was 
demonstrated in 1954, when Guatemalan 
president Jacobo Arbenz implemented a 
land reform and began to nationalize United 
Fruits uncultivated land holdings. With the 
help of the CIA, a coup was engineered 
which put a military government into power 
and returned United Fruits lands. As 
Thomas McCann states in his book, United 
Fruit was involved at every level of the coup. 
A somewhat similar situation exists today in 
Nicaragua where for example, the main 
political leader of the FDN (the contras in 
Honduras) Adolfo Calero Portocarrero was 
the manager of Coca Cola in Managua dur
ing Samoza times. According to Lawrence 
Pezzulo, former US ambassador to 
Nicaragua, Calero Portocarrero was also a 
CIA agent working in Nicaragua.
Although the bananas exported by United 
Brands symbolize the condition of Central 
America, they are only one of the major 
agricultural exports to the United States. 
Central America supplies 69% of the United 
States bananas, 15% of its coffee, 14% of 
its beef, and 17 % of its sugar. Instead of in
creasing Central American countries 
wealth, the investments of multinationals in 
export agriculture have actually increased 
their dependency on the US and the regions 
trade imbalance, as well as creating other 
problems. Land which was used for sub
sistence agriculture is instead dedicated to 
export crops, while those working on it earn 
less than subsistence wages. This amounts to 
only $2 to $7 per day for banana workers. 
Honduras now must import one-fifth of the
Presidential Debate: 
Not just a blow-off
By Michael Bett
Student Senate is sponsoring this years 
Student Government Presidential debate. It 
ls being held tomorrow, Wednesday, April
10 at 4:30 in the Wherrett Room.
You re probably asking yourself if you 
should attend. After all, being at CMU 
makes you realize how valuable your time
ls and this will only take up more of your
time.
I So I m going to convince you that if you 
attend, it will be time well spent.
Let me start by explaining a few of the 
uties that our Student Government Presient have. He will serve as the students 
pPresentative in the following committees: 
arking, Presidential Student Advisory 
pmmittee (P-SAC), Auxilliary Services, 
HaeCuUy Senate, and the Board of Trustees. 
e will sit on Student Senate as a nonvoting 
ern^er with the power to veto motions 
assed by Senate.
The Student government President must 
e to work with administrators and
tuH ''t0 ac^eve our goals and express the 
ents views. Thus the student governnj- President must be a good public
* er and a quick thinker, 
a ^tu^ent Government President 
es lrnPromptu situations from time to
time. For example, our current president, 
Bill McCormick, faced the ZBT incident, 
problems with Campus Pub and several pro
blems involving individual clubs and 
organizations. As corny as it may sound, our 
Student Government President must be 
prepared at all times.
I have a feeling that most of you did not 
realize our Student government President is 
responsible for so much. The list I gave is 
far from complete.
If you go to the debate tomorrow, you will 
be able to see the candidates for yoruself. 
you will be able to ask questions and decide 
for yourself which candidate best meets the 
qualifications of student government presi
dent. If you are unable to attend, you can 
hear the debate live on WRCT.
Because of the duties and responsibilities 
of the Student Government President, atten
ding or listening to the debate will be time 
well spent.
TONIGHTS SENATE MEETING 
Tonights Senate will be at 7:00 pm in the 
Wherrett Room. As usual all members of the 
campus community are invited to attend. 
Questions and comments are welcome. 
Michael Bett is a junior majoring in 
Mathematics and is Chairman of Student 
Senate. > n  -
beans and com which it consumes. The ex
port of Central American beef, widely used 
by North American fast food chains, has also 
resulted in the clearing of tropical forest 
lands. One-third of Costa Ricas rain forests 
have been cleared for this purpose, even 
though most Costa Ricans cannot afford 
beef.
In order to sustain high export yields, the 
imports of pesticides, many of which are 
outlawed in the US, have increased. Cur
rently, El Salvador uses one-fifth of the 
worlds production of parathion, and Ortho 
imports seven heavily restricted US 
pesticides, including DDT and chlordane, 
into Costa Rica. More than 14,000 poison
ings and 40 deaths due to pesticides were 
reported in Central America from 1972 to 
1975. The Central American Nutritional In
stitute reported that levels of DDT in 
mothers milk in Guatamala were the highest 
in the Western World at 185 times the safe
ty limit.
Increasing imports such as food and 
pesticides have led to the grave trade deficits 
experienced by Central American countries. 
The total Central American trade deficit has 
risen from $369 million in 1970 to $2,652 
million in 1980, a jump of 700%.
Financial Support
As a necessary companion to the direct in
vestment described above, United States 
financial corporations and government in
stitutions, as well as international govern
ment financial agencies, have played an im
portant role in the region. Chase Manhat
tan and Citibank, for example, have chains 
throughout Central America, and Chase 
controls Honduras largest bank, Banco 
Atlantida.
The Bank of America has been criticized 
for its support of the military government 
of Guatemala. The institution has financ
ed a military housing project, and has made 
a $750,000 loan to a National Defense 
minister. At least one executive of this bank 
is a member of the right wing group Amigos 
del Pais, which is said to have connections 
to the countrys death squads.
United States government and interna
tional aid agencies do not help the countries 
to which aid is given, but rather aid the elite 
of those countries and the transnationals. 
Some facts which justify this statement are 
the following:
 The US Department of Commerce 
estimated in 1981 that for each dollar given 
to the World Bank by the United States, 
three dollars were spent by the less 
developed countries on US products.
 The US Agency for International 
Development (AID) has stipulated that its 
funds must be spent on US goods and serOpinion Policy
The Editorial appearing at the beginning 
of the opinion section is the official opinion 
of The Tartan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual 
authors who are not necessarily on The Tar
tan Editorial Board or Staff.
Letters to the Editor are opinion of in
dividual authors who are usually members 
of the University community. A letter in
tended for publication must be signed and 
include the writers address and phone 
number for verification. Names will be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
vices when available, meaning that US com
panies are the main beneficiaries of the aid. 
As a result, one-half of the total one billion 
dollars of purchases made by the AID in 
1978 went to 22 corportations.
For example, in 1981 AID supplied $6 
billion in investment funds to the Latin 
American Development Corporation, a con
sortium of US-based multinationals in
cluding Bank of America, Gerber, ChaseManhattan and many others.
 During the height of the insurrection 
against Somoza in Nicaragua, the Interna
tional Monetary Fund (IMF) granted $40 
million to his government.
Conclusion
We have described how the large 
economic interests of the US in Central 
America benefit multinational corporations 
while damaging the overall situation in the 
region. However, there are those who believe 
that it is not so. We end this article with two 
quotations epitomizing these two opposing 
views:
A.W. Clausen, President of the World 
Bank, former Bank of America chairman: 
No other entity is better equipped to bring 
together resources, expertise, capital, and 
markets on a global basis than the transna
tional corporation.   Multinational 
Monitor, October 1981, p. 3.
Report of the United Nations Economic 
Commission for Latin America, 1981: 
Transnational corporations are the largest 
factor contributing to the regions poverty 
and dependency. 
Note: Much of the data in this article comes 
from the book Dollars and Dictators, A 
Guide to Central America, by Tom Barry, 
Beth Wood and Deb Preusch, 1982.
Editor-in-Chief ..................Stephen Volan
Managing Editor .. Michael J. Pilewski
Business Manager____lohn Friedmann
News Editor.................................Karen Gray
Entertainment Editor.....................AI Datri
Sports Editor .... Christopher D. Lewis 
Photo Assignment Editor Olve Peersen 
Photo Production Editor .. Dan Pellish
ACME Editor.......................Mohan Embar
Dossier Editor ..................Michele Keane
Ad Manager ......................Katrin Wesner
Art Manager.......................Mike Sussman
Production Manager ... Katrin Wesner
Typesetting Manager ____Jill Clelland
Asst. Features Editor .Kathy Murtaugh 
Asst. Sports Editor .. Bonnie Jacobson
Asst. Art Manager.............Mark Kissner
Asst. Typesetting Mgr.____loe Hasper
Contributing Editors: Peter Bain, Judy 
Merrill, Bonnie Topf, Pauline Wen
Copyright  1985 by The Tartan. The 
Editorial Board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2112. Business Offices: 
Skibo 52, (412) 578-2113. 24 hour phone, 
(412) 578-2111. Mailing address: Skibo 103, 
Student Activities, Carnegie-Mellon 
University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213.
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. 
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 30The TartanApril 9# 1985
SPORTING NEWS ROILING STORE M00ERN PHOTOGRAPHY CAR AND DRIVER 1 yr.23 wk. SNI $9.97 20 iss. RSI $7.9 1 yr. MP1 $7.98 CD1 $11.9926 iss. $10.40
TO ORDER: Just enter the magazine codes below (e.g. NE1). 
Circle "R" if you're renewing and enclose the most recent 
address labeL
_______R R________R________R________R
if renewing more than one magazine, please indicate which 
label is which.
Enclosed $ Bill me '?
(payable to PMSS, please) Sign here_______   ________.
? Visa ? MasterCard (Interbank Number_____________)
Card # __________________Good thru_____________
A______s soon as you get a job .you could
get the American Express* Card.
If youre a senior, all you need is
to accept a $10,000 career-oriented iob. 
Thats it. No strings. No gimmicks. (And 
even if you dont nave a job right now, 
dont worry. This offer is still good up to 
12 months after you graduate.) Why is 
American Express making it easier for 
you to cjet the Card nght now?
fell, simply stated, we be-1 ****
lieve in your future. And as you 
go up the ladder, we can help 
in a lot of ways.I ------
The Card can help you begin to 
establish your credit history. And, for 
business, the Card is invaluable for 
travel and restaurants. As well as shop
ping for yourself
Of course, the American Express 
Card is recognized around the world. 
So you are too. ^ ,
So call 1-800-528-4800 and ask to 
have a Special Student Applica
tion sent to you. Or look for one 
on campus.The American Express Card. Dont leave school without it.SM
*50 fib
.u ,TTsWTd F ..WihWHr uO
More 
Letters:
continued from page 28
One night at the SEI 
Forum...
Editor,
Last night, I went to the SEI forum ex 
pecting an interesting night. I was not disap
pointed in that respect. The part that did 
disappoint me was that what seemed to be 
the biggest question was how much of the 
SEI would be involved in strictly D0D 
research in the SEI or at CMU.
The administration has told us that the 
SEI will be designing development software 
software to help write software. There is a 
grave need for this kind of software, but the 
expense is too much for any company to 
sponsor this research. Only a government 
agency would be able to afford something 
on this scale. The DOD is the one that is 
sponsoring it, but all that means is that they 
are paying to have the research done instead 
of waiting for someone to develop it 
separately. Does this make it bad?
If the SEI develops a new concept in soft 
ware, does not the entire industry benefit 
from it? There is no way that any of this kind 
of software can be written which could be 
used exclusively by the DOD. It is too 
general. What then is everybody complain 
ing about?
Maybe people are afraid that if we help 
the DOD, we might increase our nuclear 
capability. The alternative to that is to stop 
our arms production right now and have the 
Soviets overtake us on that front. If that 
were to happen, thay would be sure to at 
tack us while they had the chance, since 
Communist doctrine is that Communism is 
the way of the world, and must be forced 
on people who dont know any better. I 
would be content living with the threat of j 
nuclear war that nobody would be dumb 
enough to start, if the other choice was 
nuclear death for us by the superior Soviets.
If the SEI would reduce this threat, while 
developing the software in an academic en 
vironment like this, where ideas flow freely | 
and more can benefit from the side effects, 
then I cant wait for it to start.
Colin Rafferty I 
Applied Math-CS/Philosophy 87
I
M
2.
HS
... that close to where you 
live, free access to 
Government information 
is available on subjects 
ranging from starting your 
own business to planning 
a family vacation? Access 
to this information... and 
much more... is free at 
your Depository Library. 
So be better informed. 
Ask at your local library 
or write to the Federal 
Depository Library 
Program, Office of the 
Public.Printer, Washington, 
DC 20401.
Federal Depository 
library Program
Ths program is supported by The Advertising Counci and s3 putee service ot mis putee at on
MAIL SUBSCRIPTION TO:
NAME__________________
PHONE ( )_______________
School name '_____Year of Grad--------
LhoAd RIIP EIT doNPAWod  APNchoITd IWMHr eMMIw 612 wAAkd EIT WAw 
dNbdcTiioiIWd oI dohTor PNbMidhATd' ThoAd dNboAco oI chhWRAr LhoAd hTA W Ur,r $ hWP 
hTA RIIP IWMH iW ohA Ur,r
MAIL COUPON TO:PMSS; 500 Third Ave. W Seattle, WA 98119

---------------------------------------------------

It Comes In Colors
This is the design! Now its your 
turn to buy your carnival shirts!
Monday, April 15 thru Wednesday, April 17
9:30 AM - 7 PM 
In front of Skibo
gnv
 V ''' K'
 Gokl College Rings
I
Now that its time to purcfilST 
your college ring, think about 
choosing the finesta 14K gold 
college ring from ArtCarved.
Designed and handcrafted for 
lasting value, an ArtCarved 14K 
gold college ring is now more 
affordable than ever. For a lim
ited time only, you can save $25 
on the style of your choice. Stop 
by to see the entire ArtCarved 
collection and custom options. 
Remember, its your year 
for gold!
APril 11th
10 am - 4 pm Skibo
j^ate Time Place
ePosit Required. MasterCard or Visa Accepted
>984 ArlC,arvti Class Rings
Siladium Sale $94.95
Want to earn $3.50/hour?
Want to sell ride tickets?
Ticket Sellers Needed During Spring 
Carnival:
Thursday 5 pm - 12 am 
Friday 12 pm - 12 am 
Saturday 12 pm - 12 am
Call Anne Witchner (x2107) or Bill 
Whelpley (x4439) by Friday, April 12th.
uraemia
FRESHMEN ACT NOW
Three Year - Full Tuition Scholarships From
CMU ARMY ROIC
APPLICATION:
ELIGIBILITY:
SELECTION
Deadline is 12 April 1985.No obligation incurred by applying. Scholarship starts with fall semester'
2.5 or better, in required ffic^in Full time student. -,Be less than
Current oaic d.
uation.
luation of academic atfership potential and degree college. CMU historically has applicants as winners.
Pays all tuition costs, fees, fixed rate on books and supplies and provides $100 per month in school financial assistance (for up to 10 months each year the scholarship is in 
effect).
For further information, contact Captain Perry Colvin, Camegie-Mellon University 
at (412) 578-2205,or visit our office at Margaret Morrison Hall, 2nd basement
U 1I u I1 uu
HHlrj

---------------------------------------------------

Acme.
Announcements
Off Center Theater will accept interns to 
work in its street theater program this sum
mer. Cost is $1000. For more information 
call 212-929-8299 or write OFF CENTER 
THEATER, INC., 436 West 18th Street, 
New York, NY 10011.
Summer Jobs are available to thousands to 
interested college students and teachers na
tionwide this year. Exciting opportunities, 
good pay and selection. For more informa
tion, send a long, self-addressed stamped 
envelope to 1985 SUMMER JOBS PRO
GRAM, Box 594, Room 12, Barnstable, MA 
02630.
Applications for the Carnegie Awards Solo 
Competition are available to musicians who 
want the opportunity to experience the audi
tion process, compete against other musi
cians of the same age, and have their per
formances critiqued by professional musi
cians. For more information call x2387.<
The National Guitar Summer Workshop
presents Master Workshops during its second 
summer session. Intermediate and advanc
ed classes offered in rock, classical, jazz, 
fingerpicking, bluegrass, and bass. In addi
tion classes in songwriting, improvisation, 
theory, sight reading, recording techniques, 
arranging and composition as well as a com
position competition are offered. Foi 
brochures and information contact: Mr. 
David Smoliar, Director, NGSW, Box 222, 
Lakeside, CT 06578 or call (203)567-8529.
Classifieds
.North Craig St. Summer sublet. Large 3 
bedroom furnished apartment. 
$345/month. 672-1290. Juliet St. large 1 
bedroom furnished apartment $275/month. 
681-4741 or 672-1290. Prices negotiable.
Shadyside Summer Sublet May 18-Aug. 18, 
possible option for fall. Sunny, airy apt., 3rd 
floor, on 5th near Walnut St. shops. Furnish
ed 2 BR, large living/dining area, kitchen, 
lots of storage, laundry fac. avail. 2 or 3 peo
ple. $400/mo. negot. incl. all util, except air 
cond. Call Teri @x2116 (day) or 687-6358 
(nite).
WANTED: Programmer/Operator for 
IBM-PC. Heavy Lotus 1-2-3 use. Flexible 
hours at business located on Perry Hwy. Ross 
Twp. Respond: P.O. Box 111363, Pgh. 15237.
Summer Jobs. College Students. Political 
fieldwork available this summer. Great work 
environment, career opportunities, national 
travel, $180+ a week plus benefits. 
765-3007.
Roommate Wanted  Squirrel Hill Apt. 
Beautiful, convenient place, beamed ceil
ings, Huge 2nd floor porch. $150 + util 
422-0904. May 1 occup.
PIZZA MADE AT YOUR LOCATION -
Everything  sauce  dough  Call me 
for your frat party. Gwen Caterers, 271-5749.
Classic stone manse of ideal proportions.
Minutes from campus. Restored with polish
ed oak flooring, jeweled windows, brandnew kitchen and charming wall covering. 
2V baths, legal apartment on third floor, 
2-car garage. $159,900. Contact Barb 
McKenzie, 244-8019.
Wanted Models For Figure and Glamour 
Photography (send picture if possible). 
Write P.O. Box 10161, Pgh PA 15232.
For Sale - HP-41C Calculator with card 
reader and 2 memory modules $195 or trade 
for 12-C and cash. 683-8988 or 
MP02@CMCCTD.
Summer Sublet w/Fall Option Unfurnish
ed two-bedroom apt. in Shadyside, 
15-minute walk to campus. Airconditioning, walk-in closet, wall-to-wall 
carpeting - $475/mth, includes everything 
but the phone! Call 682-1553 (leave a 
message).
Summer Sublet June-August Squirrel Hill 
Large efficiency, large dressing, bath, and 
kitchen $250 possible phone use Call 
421-7420.
Rooms Available May-August $135-singles, 
$110 doubles. Includes use of kitchen, two 
bathrooms, and cable TV. 683-2861 or 
687-3884.
Classical Music Lovers! The Pittsburgh 
Symphony has immediate openings for ar
ticulate, personable individuals to sell season 
subscriptions by phone. Qualificatons in
clude: a good speaking voice, a strong 
knowledge of classical music, and a commit
ment to the arts in Pittsburgh Community 
involvement is a plus. Guaranteed salary, 
with bonuses and free Symphony tickets. 
Permanent, part-time evening positions 
available now. For an interview, call Joely 
Raymond at 392-4891 between 11 am and
1 pm, Mon-Friday.
Quality typing on word processor.
Resumes, cover letters, term papers, etc. Also 
tutoring in Cobol, Basic. Call 241-1569 after 
6 pm.
Summer Sublet  Female needed to share 
a spacious completely furnished 2 bedrm. 
apartmt. Good location. $195/month 
utilities included. Call 682-4991.
<$2
054
The Ivy League Year in New York
Qualified upperclassmen are invited to apply for admission to 
Columbia College as visiting students beginning in September 
1985. Full access to housing, library resources, and upper divi
sion courses. For further information and an application, write 
or call:
Columbia College Admissions Office 
212 Hamilton Hall 
New York, New York 10027 
(212) 280-2521
Discount on over 50 brands of Audio, video 
and car stereo equipment. Contact Hal at 
683-3948.
Spectacular Savings on Sony, JVC, and 
Kenwood compact disc players. Call Hal at 
683-3948.
Latest Sony Walkman models at incredible 
prices. Call Hal at 683-3948.
Special Purchase on Sony, JVC and Crown 
Ghetto Blasters. Call Hal at 683-3948.
Special offer on Sony (VHS T120 and Beta 
L750) video cassette tapes. Call Hal at 
683-3948.
Writers wanted for Summer employment: 
NYC-based firm (need not be resident); 
Researching technical and creative writing 
skills required; Commission-based salary. 
Call Dan 687-1492.
Sublet Available May 1st. Female, Sq. Hill. 
Entire 3rd Floor (3 rooms) Share Kitchen + 
Bathroom. Call Laurie at x2956.
Two Bedroom Furnished Apartments
available for May and September 1st. 
Suitable for 2-4 roommates, w/w carpeting, 
Secure Bldg. Cable TV also available at 322 
N. Craig Street 899-3846. Perfect location, 
multiple year savings.
Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps for $44 
through the U.S. government? Get the facts 
today! Call 1-312-742-1142 Ext. 3401-A.
Order and Chaos, Nothing At All by W.R. 
Tish is now available at the CMU bookstore. 
Please look! He who hesitates is lost; HE 
WHO HESITATES IN A REVOLVING 
DOOR IS SQUASHED. But what happens 
when Simon says Im not Simon?
PARTIES  PARTIES  PARTIES
Papermart  one stop party shopping. Over
10,000 sq. ft of party supplies in our party 
supermarket. 5000 Baiun Blvd. (Baum at 
Morewood) 681-8900.
Book Sale  no junk. Nearly 1000 primary 
and secondary source books in most areas 
of study. Low Low prices. Some records. 
Come to Skibo Hall, Grey Matter, Wednes
day April 10 from 9 till 4:30 pm.
Roommate Needed: Highland Park Area,
2 bedroom spacious apartment $160/month: 
Call 661-6060 evenings.
College Graduates of 1985 interested 
teaching learning and study skills, travel t0 
schools and colleges throughout the U 5 I 
Strong Liberal Arts background, creative 
independent, car needed, start mid-Aug^ 
Training with salary, send resume to Pq 
Box 439, Greenwich, CT 06830.
SPECIAL DISCOUNT ON fiOSE I 
SPEAKERS. Call Hal at 683-3948.
North Craig Street, Summer Sublet, La^
3 bedroom, furnished apartment. (May to 
September) $385 plus gas . . . Also in same 
building another apartment available f0r 
Fall (1985) Term Large 2 bedroom furnish 
ed apartment $350.00 plus gas. Juliet Street 
Large One Bedroom Apartment (furnished) 
$275 plus utilities. Call 672-1290 leave day 
night phone to return call.
$10-$360 Weekly/Up Mailing Circulars! !\01 
bosses/quotas! Sincerely interested rush self I 
addressed envelope: Mailers Association,I 
Dept. AR-7CEG, P.O. Box 470, Woodstock,| 
IL 60098.
Miscellaneous
Richard M. Cyert will have open officc| 
hours for students between 3 to 5 pm ini 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Tuesday, Aprill 
30, 1985. Students who wish to meet with I 
the president should telephone his office, | 
578-2200, to set up an appointment.
Events
9
 Movies
The Sting, starring Paul New-J 
man, Robert Shaw. Two Chicago con-[ 
men try to put the sting on a big shot from I 
in this always delightful film. Seven Oscars went| 
to the film. Rated PG. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:31 
pm, 9:45 pm. Admission $2.95.
Music
Senior Recital, with Jeff Nicodemus, trumpet I 
Alumni Concert Hall, 8 pm.
Pittsburgh Chamber Music Project presents it 
seventh in a series of eight free concerts. Work 
performed include Glieres Intermezzo 
Tarantella, Beethovens Sonata in G for Violin a 
Piano. City Council Chambers, City-Con 
Building, Downtown Pittsburgh, 8 pm.
WQED-FM Young Concert Artists Series I 
concert with baritone Christopher Trakas. Fra 
Fine Arts Auditorium, University of Pittsburf 
8:30 pm. Call 622-1435 for free tickets.
W3VC
CMU Amateur Radio Club
Meeting 
Wed., April 10, 7:30 p.m. 
Room 45 Skibo 
Everyone Welcome
Funded by Activities Fee
OH *7*2921CMU Travel Office
Campw Convenience
Skibo 40A
I Imrmr

---------------------------------------------------

April 9, 1985The TartanPage 33
Recreation
flockin, Wire Rollin in the Monewood Cafeteria 
. jjyg sounds of the 50s. Morewood Cafeteria, 11 am.
Clubs
dent Senate meets in Skibo Wherrett Room at 7 pm.
j* Work of CRS, presented by Edward Finlay of 
,udill, Rowlett, and Scott. Part of the Department 
Architecture Spring Lecture Series. Wean Hall 7500,
[ flew American House. Award winning designs from 
. national design competition conducted last year by 
. Minneapolis College of Art and Design. Display con
WNAd through Friday, April 19. Architecture Dpart
ant, College of Fine Arts Building.
: Plan for Art displays the work of fourteen 
tists that run through Sunday, April 14. Exhibits injde Five With Byte, a selection of computer generated 
Dale Luces New Machines, twelve small sculptural 
s. Pittsburgh Plan for Art, 407 Craig St. Gallery 
s: Tuesday through Saturday from 10 am to 5 pm; 
nday from 1 pm to 5 pm.
I
ything But Winter, a photographic exhibition 
turing 94 new works by 27 regional artists. Continues 
rough Sunday, April 21. Pittsburgh Center for the 
Gallery hours: Tuesday through Saturday, 10 am 
> pm; Sunday, 1 pm to 5 pm.
0
 Movies
Godspell, starring Victor
Garber, David Haskell, Jerry 
a, Katie Hanley. A bright and energetic musical 
forking of the Gospel According to St. Matthew based 
[the Broadway play. Fine choreography. Rated G. 
tsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. Admission
Clubs
|VC CMU Amateur Radio Club meets in Skibo 45
':S0 pm.
SEC meets in Skibo 11 at 4:30 pm.
: Class meets in Skibo 12 from 1 pm to 4 pm. 
one welcome. For more information call 241-1002.
onomy Club meets in Doherty Hall 2304 at 8:30
Sports
fSpiedel Invitational at Wheeling, West Virginia.
1
xt
Mens Tennis home meet against Hiram College at 1
pm.
Mens and Womens Track home meet against 1 hiel 
College and John Carroll University. Tech Field, 3:30 
pm.
Music
Graduate Recital, with Andee Lee, violin. Alumni Con
cert Hall, 8 pm.
The Battlefield Band, sponsored by The Irish Design 
Center in cooperation with WQED-FM. From the 
forefront of the Scottish music revival and renowned 
for their innovative approach to the traditional reper
toire. Graffiti, 4615 Baum Blvd., 8 pm. Tickets $7 in 
advance at Irish Design Center, Kaufmanns, Graffiti, 
$9 at door.
Lectures
Children of divorced parents group allows 
students to talk to people who are going through it 
themselves. Counseling Center, E-Tower Morewood, 3:30 
pm to 5:30 pm.
U
 Movies
Gaijin. Doherty Hall 2210, 6pm,
8 pm, 10 pm. Admission $1. Spon
sored by Activities Board. Funded by your Activities Fee.
Yentl, Barbra Streisand, Mandy Patinkin, Amy Irving. 
A fine first effort for Streisand about a young Jewish 
girl who becomes a boy to try to educate herself at the 
turn of the century. Rated PG. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 
7:30 pm, 9:50 pm. Admission $2.95.
Music
Senior Recital, with Paul Brust, composition. Alum
ni Concert Hall, 8 om.
CMU Explorers Club plans rock-climbing and kayak
ing trips. Skibo 12, 6:30 pm.
The Beggars Opera, presented by CMU Drama and 
Music Departments. CMU production of John Gays 
musical which is second only to Shakespeares works in 
its popularity in the English theater. Keith Lockhart, 
associate conductor of orchestras and director of CMU 
Wind Ensemble, and Ian Gallacher. music director of 
the Pittsburgh Civic Orchestra, are creating the lost or
chestration of Johann Pepusch. Kresge Theater, Col
lege of Fine Arts, 8 pm. Call x2407 weekdays between 
12 noon and 5 pm for more information or reservations.
Zelda! by Colette Silvestri. Its his side of paradise that 
the world remembers. Its her side of the story that you 
wont forget. Tickets $3.50 with ID, $5.00 without ID 
at Skibo Information Desk.
Q Movies
h f Romancing the Stone. Doherty 
X mJ Hall 2210, 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm, 
12 pm. Admission $1. Sponsored by Activities Board. 
Funded by your Activities Fee.
Thats Dancing! A compilation of some memorable 
dance sequences in Hollywood films and introduced by 
Gene Kelly, Ray Bolger, Liza Minnelli. Rated G. Pitt
sburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm, 11:30 pm. Ad
mission $2.95.
Music
Senior Recital, with Diana Dimarzio, voice. Alumni 
Concert Hall, 8 pm.
Plays
Zelda! See Thursday, April 11 for details.
Sports
Lacrosse away meet against West Virginia University 
at 4:30 pm.
Lectures
The Challenge of a New American House: A Na
tional Perspective, presented by Dr. Rolf Goetze, author 
of Rescuing the American Dream. Part of a forum spon
sored by the Architecture Department, the Housing 
Committee of the Mayors Task Force on Women, and 
the Pittsburgh Architects Workshop, concentrating on 
the ideas that governed the competition behind the 
designs on display at the Architecture Department (see 
Art: Tuesday, April 9.) Adamson Wing, Baker Hall,
7 pm. Continues tomorrow at 9:30 am.
Movies
^ Rocky Horror Picture Show. 
ra Doherty Hall 2210, 9 pm, 12 pm. 
Admission $1. Sponsored by Student Dormitory Council.
Star Trek III: The Search for Spock, William Shatner, 
DeForest Kelly, Judith Anderson. Nimoy directs well in 
this excellent film about the search for Spocks mind 
and body. Trekkies should like this one. Rated PG. Pitt
sburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm, 11:30 pm. Ad
mission $2.95.
Music
Electronic and Computer Music Concert. Alumni 
Concert Hall, 8 pm.
Plays
Zelda! See Thursday, April 11 for details.
Sports
Mens Tennis away meet against Duquesne University 
at 1 pm.
Mens and Womens Track PAC Relays at John Carroll 
University.
Golf PACs Invitational at Hiram College.
vBlB aa   " s=====^==~ - i =M
 Movies
Take the Money and Run.
Doherty Hall 2210, 6 pm, 8 pm, 
10 pm. Admission $1. Sponsored by Activities Board. 
Funded by your Activities Fee.
Mr. Hulots Holiday, starring Jacques Tati, Nathalie 
Pascard. The first and best of the Hulot series. A 
delightful comedy about a trip to a French resort. Tatis 
comic sense is unbeatable. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 
pm, 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Music
Graduate Recital, with Soungwon Paik, organ. Cavalry 
Episcopal Church, 4:30 pm.
Plays
The Beggars Opera. See Thursday, April 11 for details. 
Clubs
Game Club meets in Skibo 11 at 1 pm.
Art
Paintings of landscapes by two CMU alumnae on 
display. Wildsisters Cafe Gallery, 27th St. and Jane St., 
Southside, 1 pm to 3 pm until Saturday, May 4, 1985.
15
Movies
The Robe, starring Richard Bur
ton, Jean Simmons, Victor 
Mature, Michael Rennie. Lavish film version of Lloyd 
C. Douglas novel about a Roman put in charge of 
Christs execution. Well-acted. This is the first 
CinemaScope film. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 
pm. Admission $2.95.
Clubs
A Phi O meets in Doherty Hall 2210 at 7 pm.
FOOD
FRISBEE
AND
FfciMMfltit a
AT 150
ON TK tit'
(Sponsored by Student Senate)

---------------------------------------------------

RUN FOR
Student Government Treasurer
Petitions at 
Skibo Information 
Desk
Due 5:00 pm 
Friday April 19
All activities fee peeing students are eligible
Funded by Student Activities Fee
CAPRI PIZZA
Stpn.e ,o TsWUdsosr$2.45
+ tax LARGE PIZZA and
2 LITERS OF PEPSI!!
UNBELIEVABLE!!
Where Today... 
... Tomorrow 
And Every Pay ... 
you oetttie Best Pizza in Oakland at the Best Price!
axiaxxxMOQaioaxioooa^
*OAKLAND'S FINEST NIGHTCLUB* g
 FORCES STUDIO 8
o OIOANTIC VIDE SCREEN ENTERTAINMENT* 0
Open Tuesday - Sunday 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. 
ooooooaxxiooaxicxxio^^
3415 FORCES AVE. POH. PA. 13213 
PHONE 681-2202
OUR 1 AMI FAMOUS SPECIAL 
WITH NOW AN IVIN GREATER 
SA VINOS TO YOU
Skcee Your Onto A Good Thing, Stick With HN

---------------------------------------------------

Funnies.
oe Freshman
From Strange
MinasMark Levine
Pellish
0
euiMOess..
university
dining
serviceMenu
APRIL 8-14 1985
kiltie cofekiltie cafeEVENING
Cheese Fondue 
Fried Chicken 
Beef Burgundy
Chicken fiavaiigr 
Stuffed Peppers 
Barley Casserole
Fried Perch 
Beef Burgundy 
Stuffed Shells/Sauce
Italian Steak 
Chicken Pot Pie 
Spinach Noodles
Grilled Ham&Cheese 
Rigatoni/Meat Sauce 
Top your own Potato
Vegetable Chili
Chili Con Came
Grilled Cheese Sandwich
Lima Bean Casserole 
Vegetable Omelette 
BBQ Ham Sandwich
Turkey Tetrazzini 
Hamburgers 
Roman Rice&Beans
BLT Sandwich
Beef Macaroni/Tomatoes
Califlower Marranca
Steak/Onion Sandwich 
Tuna Noodle Casserole 
Swiss Cheese Croquettes
French Toast/Sausage 
Cheese Dogs 
thicken Ala King
Waffles/Bac on
Grilled Reubens
Rrccoli & Cheese Quiche
Cheese,Spinach &. Rice 
Beef Stew
Baked Haddock/sauce
Burritos/Chili 
Baked Chicken 
California Quiche
Cheese&Mushroon Quiche 
Chicken Hawuan 
Meatloaf/Gravy
Cheese Ravioli/meatless Sauce 
Sausage Omelette 
Turkey Devonshire
Cheese Blintzes
Potato Cakes/Corn Beef
Kugel
Vegetarian Pizza 
London Broil 
Shrimp Chow Mein
Fish Split Hoagie 
Turkey Tetrazzini 
Deli Bar
Baked Meatloaf 
Pork Chow Mein 
Eggplant Parmesan
Baked Haddock 
Fish &. Chips 
Cheese Blintzes/Sauce
Veal Parmesan/meatless Sauce 
Corned Beef/Cabbage 
Fettucinni Alfredo
Fried Chicken
Ham & Turkey Supreme
Omelette Florentine
EverydayEveryday
Hot/Cold Deli 
Omelette to Order 
Hamburgers & Hotdogs
Carved Beef or Turkey
Grilled Pork Chops 
Hamburger Steak/Gravy 
Chinese Fried Rice
Subject To Change

---------------------------------------------------

utL'ven ri > - DE. I'_riY FASi. fhcL _"LIVERv \sr y - DELIVERY c*tT -~EE 0EL(vtav r,^T - REE P" >rr- iEE DELIVER i KfREE r ~ot r,.^E DELIVERY F-JT Fr ^.lliVERY FAST FREE DEI " jT _ DELIVERY FAST FREE P"' FAF FREE DELIVERY FAST "AST FREE DEL'" "M tfgp t.aa oawC U GP' FAST FREE DELi -RY FAST FREE L>:IY FAST FREE ""ERY FAST Fr RY FAST Fr =RY FAST 'Y FAST F I Y FAST Y AST,R F ~
r* ' cH ,'ST FREE -"--'VERY E/ST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVF'^ -lL' cRVFAST FOFr DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELiVt REE DcLlvERY FAST FREt 'eRY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERS ; DELIVERY FAST FREE DEL.v. RY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVER IVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY F .IVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST CPEE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY .""Y FAST FREE DELIVtF, FAST FF E DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FA;Rv FAST FREE DELIVER *'5>r Ft- "E DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY tb Hfgp FREE DELIVERY FAS RE. LELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST ST. FREE DELIVERY FAS. Rt DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAS CPEE DELIVERY FAST FF :E f '.IVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST IEE DELIVERY FAST F, Ec -------------------" DELIVERY FAST FRE DELIVERY FAST FR "'VERY FAST FREF - IVERY FAST FRt RY FAST FREE L 'ERY FAST FRE ' <Y FAST FREE RY FAST FRE
UVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST /ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST f> VERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST ( =RY FAST FREE DELIVERY fact ff /ERY FAST FREE DELIVE "R J FAST FREE DELIVE''RY FftST FREE DELI. y r ST CREE DELiVt 1 . ^S FREE OELI'
Y
Iv - iIY F RY fa Y FASI Y FAS FAST F  Y FAST I p "AST, t.w'Et FAST FREE DELIVERY r RY FVST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREt iE RY r A free DELIVERY FAST. FRE^P cAb' E Dl "AST FREE Dn FAS, (EE ow -if CAST FREE* ST FREE DELIVtPY FAST FREE i AST CREE DELIVERY FAST. FRE. FAST FPEE DELIVERY FAST FRE *tRY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAS. F. ." "RY FAST F^-" PF> VERY FAST FREc Jt ' ' 'ERY FA E DELIVERY FAST, FREE DcLI'RY F DELIVERY FA'" FREE CELi'/ER' DELIVERY ,*oT. FREE DELIVRY r 'cpv mST hII FaxkaPa.M C D.M FAST FRPr JELI\RY FAST FHct ljulIVERY FAST FRI- jELIVE ED P\ST FREE DE1 IV^F-' 'DEL1T 3  c . del:vE CE>
^ FAST FREE 5V r * ^EF P IVEFY FAST FRE7. "R IVEFAST FREE )S -,F. 'r! ' FAST FRE . 1EITAST FREE D.E D.. * FAST FREEE LF AST FREF DrF i.'LFAST FREF "E ESI FRE  DIE DL H .P 4p t tCaa WREcD-' " RST. FFGE DFEDELI v F/4p Jaac. T ,EE DELL Y F/-.7 E DT 3 c -DELIVE-. -AST.S REEzf Ao FF,FE DELIVE FASTJ EE rM fgL t.aw oaxka.M tR'i REERv rA;'T FRE r DELIVERv .T t 4EE DfY F \ST "REE DELIVER'' CAS
DominosPizzadelivers!
. ST. FREE L iY FAST FREE DE Twea.M FAST FREF D< .LIVERY FAST FR E DELIVERY c * -
 _3Y EAST FREE DELIVEF.^ *<:'..Y FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST tc"" _/i IVERY FAST FREE oawka.M tfgp t.HP ax :a.M tfgp t.aa oaxka.M ?jF Cka.M tfgp t.aa oaxka.M RDELIVERY rf FHL^ otl IVERY FAST, FREE DELIVERY FAST .DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST, FREE DELIVERY FAST F, l DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAbT TQFE DELiVEr: REE .IV" Y FAST FREE DELIVERY FA ST FREE DELIVERY FAST ""
ctP3E Ft- Rt Fn.EE Ou.'EE DELIVEr> .LIVE''IrL:'/ERY FAo . /LIVER  VERY FAST FREE DE' ' CACT FREF DE1 :' -rST  F: -
FRErJtfiY FAST FREE DFLIVERY FAST rcF- "tPY FAST FRL. .iY^iST. rIVERY FAST FREE ELIVERY F ".'-RY FAST FREE DELIVPr AST. RY AST FREE1 . IVERY F>Y c%ST FREE DELIVEr.-RY FAr'Y FAST FRF:LIVERY-R ST FREE DCLIVER..RY FASTAST FRCIVERY 1Y ' c (j-L| -RY c,VERY FAST Fn.__ivcftY FASTLIVER-E' \ Rv'F;RY CAST FREE DELIVERY F'VERYP ' S 'Vti -ST. FPccr.IVEFl\ LVER'-.. : . "/ER-IVE ,* , \'Y/EF  . uS L IVI JELiVFf'\ , t'ER. . OELIVrcRY FAS'IVE  r e P'"Y FAV E:a. qjgkC .E Dlr + L-IVEF!* FAi. FREtT TRCt )tVERY FAST FREE D''FLLIVERY FAST FRErIVERY FAST. FREE"NLIVERY FAST FPLIVERY FAST. FF.'a X1JELIVERY FAST. ri.../Er.'"'uuFLIVERY F'H.M tfH4p Xi_ -c .. vL w. .LIVERYr- - 'tVERY 1i_/L. .c,.iLIVERY.  . ' H '-E DELIVERY fcREE DELIVERY\1EE DF' IV"RY rIFR1-!. VER -IL i -t -, 'FAFRE rJt IVERY c E DtL.VEr' F. Fr-^f DcLIV n-*. .. Jb-. . >_RY tAST F,DELIVER fAtjI. FREE DFLIVEP" PAST. CBC'L ; xPNC w P !ERY FfgpC tLYwLIVEP'
A hot delicious pizza is just a phone call and less than 30 minutes away! You never have to leave 
the comfort of home.Best of all... delivery is always free!
You can trust Dominos Pizza for a top quality 
nutritious meal and fast, friendly service.
Our drivers carry less than
$10.00. Limited delivery area
Fast, Free DeliverySi 5 North Craig St. 
Phone: 681-1700
623 Greenfield Ave. Phone: 521-2970
EiY Fh ERY FAo *Y FAST FFc.
. : iY FAS^IVERY . ___L'VERY FA^oaxka.M tfgpC t.aa oaxka.M tb'eC FREE DELIVERY <- IV- CAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST CREE DF' IVERV "RY FAST F' -fc w%ax-C_c DELIVt - o..-REE DEI' iE DELivcni FAST. FREE DFL'ya oaweajM tfgpC t.at RRM tfgp. ^YFAS"i/ERY F VERY F' ELIVER' JELIVER' t DELIV . DELIvr <EE DE hEE DE'
1 FAST ELIi FAST Fr . -|j\RY FAS - . DEl RY FAST . T - >ELI'VERY FAST FREE DEL rfERY FAST FREE DELIV .LIVERY FAST ( REE DEL LIVERY FAST FREE DEL'V- . DELIVERY FAST. FREE DEL, DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVt ^E DELIVERY FAST FREE DELi'.FR/ REE DELIVERY FAST FREE DEL- ZRV . r FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DEI . r. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DF AST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE AST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE
r r ! .ct Lcuvtm r AST. FRFC no -VPRY trf AST
$2.00Off!
DELIVERY FAST. FRF '/ERY FAST FREIy.M tfgpC t.aa Tw . VErlY - _ - 'ST FREE DELIVERY \ST. FREF no >-
a.M tfgp t.aw ^r/pREEY FAST FREE DEL.. 31. FREEERY FAST FREE DELIVth , . .crtY FAST FP jY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FRr ,rRY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST F?Y FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST rERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAr ,r1Y FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAr iERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY r1Y FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY 'ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVE' jY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVEF - ,rERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DEL1 *  .=?Y FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELI' ' r . tERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE D' .E~ > . . ,vY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DF /ERY . / _r ~ t iERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE LIVFR . *c . F 1Y FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE lIVERY f^sT. -cc c"ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FRE <ELIVcfl '  .,',T*Y FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE .IVERY FS. r n\ _ ^ J .lRV rA',i . >cFRY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE  "LIVERY FAST FREr. '.t^lVEr<Y r/^T F> cE P ..Y FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DEL ' -HY FAST. FREr. ''-tIVERY FAST. rREE DE' ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DEL.'.'"./ FAST r^' _ - r cr(Y FAST r" "V< FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVEF. *ST ' r' ,i Uc^. .ERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY " jT 1 REE DFtJVEn, i-A jT. Fntt Ucl
egk C C N YP-or f^"f iIwe(Ihn
R ' Y c. yEPY I ERY F - JVEH1 iVEFV . ELIV'rFiY_ LIV
1Y FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FA 1Y FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAS ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY F, *Y FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FA ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY AST FREE DELIVERY Fi*v b'z hII iIwe(Ih r*si vy,II DELIVERY FAf ERY FAST FREE DfcLI'/r  r V DELIVERY F^Y FAST FpFE DcL'VFR. >- ' . . I ,ERV FAa.M tb'z FF.EE DE. '  Yi1Y FAST CIEE DEI . . FAa.M tfgp k II r : V iY *Y FAST FRL r F'. -AERY FAST. Tftfc  ' *"AST FREE L. _ . A.'-r F,(L_ F"H.. C|IV. F,
?Y FAST. Fn.ERY FAST FREF DfcLi.-  -^Y FAST FREE DELIVERY CA ViERY FAST FREE DELlVZriY F- ST..TY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST cF e2 u ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY f; s . S" Dti <Y FAST FREE DELIVERY F*i 1 r ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAS  .1Y FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST, K i ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. F. c 'JY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREt > 1ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREt |Y FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST, FREE DE.ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE Dfc.)M tfgp t.aa oaxka.M tfgpR t.aa oaxkw a.M tfgp t.aa oaxka.M tfgpC t.aa oaxkCkM b'z hII iIwe(Ihn b'z hII iIwe(Ihnhn b'z t.aa oaxka.M tfgpC t.aa oaxka.LP OM tfgp t.aa oaxka.M tfgp t.aa otP ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST F<~IY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAC*=RY FAST FREE DELI'*"Y FAST FREF ERY FAPEL IVERY FAST F"- r w - -O.. FP"E DL IVtHY r#-u. *'' FAST 'Y FA CAST ' FAST
DE' DEL'- E OM   .E O'-'..,REE : "I.. . - REE c- :  , r. FREEP-.. . - 'FREE DE ' .. ^ fgp t.aa oxC bgp t.aa oaxkC CFAST FREE DELIVr , - .FAST FREE DELIVER - _RY FAST. FREE DELIVER .  . .^RY FAST FREE DELIVERY FA _IVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY F "stu ^IVERY FAST, FREE DELIVERY FAS c  .I. FP JELIVERY FAST, FREE DELIVERY FAS'I 1 . .rfcsT FP DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FF r  . *RY FAc'r tE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST, FPE .'r  ,EE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE :. rASf FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREt 'Y FAST. FREE QELIVERY FAST, FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DLi Y FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE Dt . AST, FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVc _ .JtLlVt -AST. FREE DELIVEPY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIV
VELI'
' 1 IVEf . LIVE.'" IVERY , LIVERY t IVERY FAS. aweTeyeM tfP xka.M tfgp Yaxka.M tf xka.M tfgp !axka.M tf yxka.M tfgp oaxka.M tf xkaxM tfgW oaxka.M tfC we(Ihn b'zDELIVERY FA: "LIVERY FAST DELIVERY FA t LIVERY FAS'I DELIVERY FA ELIVERY FAS! DELIVERY FA /ELIVERY FAS'I DELIVERY FA LIVERY FAS'I ' IVERY " 
$2.00 off any 16 
2-item or more pizza 
One couoon Der pizza 
Expires: 4/28/85
Fast, Free Delivery
315 North Craig St. 
Phone: 681-1700
623 Greenfield Ave. Phone: 521-2970
$1.00Off!
$1.00 off any 12
2-item or more pizza One coupon per pizza 
Expires: 4/28/85
Fast, Free Delivery"
315 North Craig St. Phone: 681-1700
623 Greenfield Ave 
Phone: 521-2970
FAS
VCF. r. .T 'R. i - .-AoT  FA*:.T.*S * s T.'SI  f *T.. Ff rK. -IE  Ai -R.IT.. EE "iT. 1Et -Ri  Dl cR - D.'EL TEi Tt - D' MV .E D LI rREE DEL VE.
AST FREE DEI RY FAST FREE T- -Ri ST FREE PELI'""\ST FRF T FREE iT FREE FREE Dt.. .ER'FREE DEI ..cm f TEE DELI REE DEL E DELIVt -E DELiVt DELIVERY F/ ,t. F" DELIVERY LIVERY F,LIVERY F iERY FAS. Er'ERY FAST I Y FAST FF
ST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVEF, I FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVE; ," FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY F  '. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY , "EF DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVEP' 1 FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DF' . . , '  REE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREF r - -'EE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST r DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FA<=- . '_ DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVEP' ncF ''CLIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVF'
''LLIVtHY FAb I FMtt UCLlvcn i rwi. rncc w:TweDTc l '<ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FA 'ERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FA v FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST.' FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST T FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FRu T FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FR.UHa oaxka.M tfgpC t.aa oaxka.M tfgpC t.aa w La oaxka.M tfgpC t.aa oaxka.M tfgpC t.aa C Ptxka.M tfgpC t.aa oaxka.M tfgp t.aa oax P Lxka.M tfgp t.aa oaxka.M tfgp t.aa oxx Thn FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DEUVt -RY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE OBJ* "AST FREE DELIVERY FAST fREE^OEUVE^5T FREE DtLIVtMY h3i -mu VST FREE DELIVERY FAST.CREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVE , -REE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DEL/ JDELIVERY FAST. FIR_EE 0*L^jy(WlDELIVERY FAST FREE I
'TM ' it. Fl...
VERY FAST FREE>Y FAST FREE DEL1 ^ v FAST. FPr'
FP.IVERY FAST FREE DE ERY FAST FREE DF 'ERY FAST FRF'Y FAST. FRF *Y FAST r FA= -
AS'*S P'
. . FREE ...FREEDE.. i FAST. FREE DE _riY FAST. FREE DELIV -cLIVERY FAST. FREE DELIV...DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY ' rlEE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVER.Vr J1 . REE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FA."Y FAST. F, /El A. -r-. jT FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY F, rAST FRE' C J ^ST , nuS- . ' 'JT. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DEL'VERY FASI-Aif cp.v Df FAST 'F . , FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAS. -T ' H-t : CAST, f r.  - .Y FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FfT ' . F- Dc ,<Y FAS r ^IVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FtK_r FAST DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREt'F.r " t  'Y FA E DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST t.awi DEL CRY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE Dt IEE D Thn tfgp t.aa oaxka.M tfgpC t.aa oaxka.M tfgp t.aa ow Mytfgp t.aa oaxka.M tfgp t.aa oaxka.M tfgp t.aa oaxk .M tfgp t.aa oaxka.M tfgp t.aa oaxka.M tfgp t.aa oax? M tfgp t.aa oaxka.M tfgp t.aa oaxka.M tfgp t.aa oaxkatR
iE DE REE f
..crtY FAST FREE DEl VI cLIVERY FAST FREE DELIV. RY rHEE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELfV^R T FRt t Df LIVERY FAST FREE DELIVER F .VERY^ST MIEE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELMEr ' ? JELIVERY fast FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAS ^ ^7!vfRY FAST 7f4E DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY Ai f rat [ r)f I IVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FA'T .
AST .FAST CAST F IY FAS wr*" FAST V 'YfA:i fasEC LO.A'r rDi ' /E.-iY M- Dt *.  A.'*: i,*0 = Lr.FR< FAST. FRt'E D 'ELIVERY FAST. FREE l'Y FIVERY FAST. FREI; [ <Y FAiIVERY FAST FRi;f ERY FRY FAST FREE ^ . RY FA"RY FAST FREE DEl!VEF r c y FAST. FREE DELIVERY FA :Y FAST. FREE DELIVERY :f< l AST FREE DELIVERY F/ zzi TAST. FREE DELIVERY IH'T FREE DELIVERY F l-l. . ST FREE DELIVERY , :F I, , CREE DELIVERY FAST FRfFREE DELIVERY FAST F ICE DELIVERY FAST FR I-  >EE DELIVERY FAST r I L DELIVERY FAST FREE Ut-  _ - DELIVERY FAST FREE Ccw "I.IVERY FAST FREE DEt 'LIVERY FAST FREE D- t  VERY FAST FREE DELIVtY f, r 4 VERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY- _________________ -.W r.fT rrwr nm JBM I
p t.aa oaxka.M tfgp t.aa oaxka.M tfgp t.aa oaxkat TI DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY F REE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY F E DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAS IEE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAS i; IVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST I:f iLIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST ,IVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FRt iLIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FRFAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE IY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVE PY FAST FREE Dt IV bgp FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE Dt CREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIV1, free oelivery fast free delivery fast free deli .REE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVEF : ' FREE OELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVFtr Hr 'CLIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIV"FR LIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE P'a*I VERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE r1 IVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST Fr|  iCQv CACT CDCC rCl iVflCOV CACT r
f./
