Design gets reshuffled
photo by Todd Prario
Vatermelons, pop, and beer helped kick off Fall Rush at the watermelon bash on Friday, September 2.
Faculty seminar features student input
By PAULINE WEN
; Tartan News Editor
On Wednesday, August 24, the newly 
constructed Adamson Wing was the site of 
the first new faculty seminar. Approxi
mately twenty-eight faculty, both old and 
. new, attended the three hour session held by 
I the Teaching Center under the direction of 
Ted Fenton.
Provost Angel Jordan gave the introduc
tion to the seminar calling Fenton a 
teacher of teachers, and the Teaching 
Center a fantastic contribution to 
education.
The first hour of the seminar was devoted 
to analyzing student questionnaires distrib
uted last year. The question raised was 
What Characterizes Inferior Teaching at 
CMU? Responses included lack of enthusi
asm for teaching, impatience with ques
tions, inaccessibility, unecessary repetition 
and disorganization. One student com
plained about "foreign TAs who dont 
speak English and dont care to learn. Fen
ton responded that many care to learn and 
added that he soon hoped to have places at 
CMU where they could leam. Another stu
dent commented that with no homework 
assignment one could not leam.
One particularly voluble student added, 
Too many profs are caught up in their own 
^search that they couldnt care less about us 
stupid undeigrads. The student went on 
to say, The profs who have taught me the 
most have generally been the ones with 
fewer grad students and less 'national recog
nition: These teachers come prepared with 
organized lectures, and when I see they take 
an active interest in me, I take interest in 
their class.
The person also commented about exdlte 
that students find impossible to finish on 
time. Sure, profs curve the grades', but I 
cant see why they make the tests so hard that 
radical curving is necessary . . . people
wonder why the students feel so pressured 
here ... I think anyone would feel pressured 
if they walk out of a test knowing they only 
answered [a quarter] of the questions! 
Using these and other comments, Fenton 
compiled an oudine titled How to Help 
Students Leam More in CMU Classes. 
Points mentioned included increasing the 
interest value of the material, using a sylla
bus, providing constructive comments and 
conducting evaluations and surveys.
The second part of the seminar featured 
videotapes of classes individually chosen for 
the way that they demonstrated effective 
teaching. An informal, comfortable atmos
phere seemed to be a requirement for good 
teaching, as well as organization. One tape 
v continued on page 6
Fixing, buying, building
By DOUG BLAIR
Tartan Assistant News Editor
The summer saw a number of changes in 
CMU properties, including major renovtions to Morewood Gardens, the signing of 
a purchase agreement for the Bureau of 
Mines buildings, and rapid progress on the 
ITC building.
Housing director Tony Martin referred to 
the Morewood renovations as a dramatic 
improvement in the quality of life. The 
problems currendy seen in Morewood (gen
erally an absence of furniture) are attributa
ble to the slight delay in completion of the 
project, which cost in the area of $3.5 mil
lion. "Once we get past the beginning, we 
should have very few complaints says Mar
tin, who cites new plumbing, heating, and 
lighting fixtures throughout the building as 
reasons for the expected reliability of the 
building as a whole.
People who were here before see such a 
change, says Martin, but its something of 
a gamble, with the new furniture. We hope 
that students are responsible enough to pro
tect the investment.
Part of the Morewood renovation 
involved moving the Counseling Center 
from Baker Hall to-the first floor of DTower in Morewood. Dr. Rabin of the 
Counseling Center explains the reason for 
the move: Theres some thought being 
given to a holistic health center here. We're
beginning to share some services with the 
regular Health Service staff.
Dr. Rabin sees the combined Center 
affording the student in need of counseling 
some anonymity as well  a student visit
ing the Center could be in for a sore throat or 
a sliced finger, so the imagined stigma of 
visiting a counselor is removed. How are the 
new accomodations? Wonderful, comfor
table, pleasant... were real happy about it. 
The student will benefit."
On May 4, the University signed an agree
ment to buy the Bureau of Mines facility of 
$5.8 million. When all the buildings are 
transferred to CMU in October of 1985, it 
will culminate almost 30 years of negotia
tions. In 1957, then CMU President John 
Warner began attempting to acquire the 
buildings.
The space will be primarily devoted to 
robotics, computer science, and the Mellon 
Institute, although some other functions are 
to be relocated to the complex as well. Uni
versity Publications is planning to move 
into one erf the six main buildings within 
the next few months.
The ITC building should be completed 
in early November, according to Fred Rog
ers, Vice-President for business affairs. The 
new building will house University compu
ters, administrative systems, and the ITC 
staff. The much-discussed building will 
have a $7 million price tag when completed.
By JOANNE SAVIN ELL
Tartan Staffxvriter
A massive reshufflement of the design 
department studio space, originally 
planned for early summer, is only now get
ting underway and is expected to be completed by early October. The 
rearrangements resulted from a domino 
effect which began with the statistics depart
ment, now a part of H&SS, moved from 
Wean to Baker Hall, in order to open up 
more space for Robotics and Computer 
Science in Wean Hall.
The 130-132 wing of Baker Hall, com
monly called designers alley, will be com
pletely renovated for use by statistics. Also, 
since the Counseling Center has been moved 
from Baker to Morewood Gardens, 850 
square feet of senior graphic design space 
located in the center has been lost. This area 
will be renovated for H&rSS office space.
In return for this space loss, parts erf 
design will be moved to the campus print
ing office, which is being relocated in the 
recendy acquired Bureau of Mines. Renova
tion of the printing office and purchase of 
equipment for it will be funded by the 
University.
According to Riwjfcfft Swinehart, acting 
head of design, last spring the acpartment 
was offered new space efficient furniture by 
Richard Van Horn, then provost. The furni
ture was to make up for any space loss tlian 
might be encountered.
After completion of the plans, design will 
be occupying about the same amount of 
area as before. Much of the old equipment 
had been discarded, which, according to 
Swinehart, was dilapidated and needed to be 
replaced. Some of the new furniture has 
already arrived, and the rest should come 
this week.
Prior to these changes, designers alley 
had been occupied by industrial design and 
graphic design studios. Industrial design 
studios will continue to be housed there 
until the campus printing space is reno
vated, estimated at late September. Only 
after design moves out will the hall be 
redone for statistics.
The first floor photo studio will tempor
arily house junior industrial designers until 
continued on peg* 6
In this issue
Editorial
Renovation a problem .... page 2 
News
ATO reinstated ................page 5
Kiesler new dean..............page 5
Features
Dan Rather visits CMU ... page 9 
A Kiltie Band first...........page 11
Entertainment
Drama gets a grant.........page 13
Risky Business reviej*' .... page 14
Sports
AFC preview ..................page 15
New football strategy.......page 15
Mb
Mbe Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgb, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 84, Number 1, September 6, 1983.

---------------------------------------------------

Mbitorial._______________________
University demonstrates poor planning
When we came back to CMU this fall, we 
expected to come back to neat, remodeled rooms 
and a new computing building. Instead, we found 
the remains of construction all over campus.
In Morewood Gardens, students returned to 
rooms without phone service, furniture, and even 
locks, and the cafeteria was still under construction 
when it opened for service. The renovations were 
not completed on time, and at least one persons 
room was being used by maintenance the day the 
dorms opened.
In Marybelle Apartments, the rooms were still 
being worked on, two days after the dorms had 
opened, and there is still no phone service.
Why was the planning on these and other con
struction projects, such as the Adamson Wing, so 
poor? Being two months behind schedule seems to 
be the norm for this university. When projects are
this far behind schedule, the delay interferes with 
academics and student life to a great extent.
The ITC was supposed to be finished last Thurs
day. The administration is now hoping to finish 
by November. The Adamson Wing in Baker Hall 
was supposed to be finished last spring, and was 
only recendy completed. The dormitory renova
tion was supposed to be finished long before stu
dents moved in; it obviously wasnt.
Renovation and construction are important  it 
benefits the students to live and have classes in new 
facilities  but we question the universitys sche
duling of these tasks.
The university is taking on too much. If it is not 
clear whether the resources are available to com
plete a project, or whether deadlines will be met, 
the university should either allocate more resources 
early or postpone the project. It is better to have a
few completed projects than a large number of 
incomplete ones.
Some of the problems are not the universitys 
fault. For example, a telephone company strike has 
prevented the phones from being installed since 
classes started, and no one could plan for that; 
though certainly, all construction should have 
been completed in the dorms. Students should 
have been able to lock their possessions in their 
rooms once they got here  after all, the university 
takes no liability, even if the insecure conditions 
are their fault.
We are pleased that the university is considering 
its students by upgrading the facilities; however, 
we ask that in the future more care be taken in 
planning. Otherwise, the renovations do more 
harm than good.
19% tax increase funds personal shuttle plan
By Phil Almquist and Mike Inners
WASHINGTON  President Reagan 
announced today that he has permanently 
cancelled plans to acquire additional space 
shuttles. Space Shuttles are obsolete tech
nology that will not meet U.S. 
needs in a cost-effective manner 
later in the decade, he told 
I reporters at a suprise Oval Office 
press conference; "Instead, future space 
travel will take place in personal space shut
tles. He expects that every American will 
own a PS (personal shuttle) by 1987.
Existing shuttles do not behave uni
formly with different loads. If enough peo
ple tried to climb on, the shuttle would 
crash, claimed Vice President George 
oUSh Tbs personal shuttle will be availa
ble anytime an American wishes to shuttle.
Another advantage of the PSs is that they 
can be connected together, allowing direct 
personal access to the spatial resources of the 
Universe.
When queried about the cost of a personal 
shuttle, Reagan replied that of course every 
American will be able to afford one. Our 
administration is destined to take this step 
towards making America strong again. He 
then went on to say that administration ana
lysts expect that many of the best Russian 
scientists will emigrate to the U.S. in order 
to have personal space shuttles.
Reagan has signed a contract with Rock
well International to design and build the 
personal shuttle. Reagan implied that 
Rockwell will absorb the entire cost of the 
project but refused to give details of the con
tract. It has been reported, however, that
Rockwell has been given the use of the Pen
tagon for the duration of the project. Ameri
can military leaders will be temporarily 
housed in a yet to be disclosed location. 
When reporters asked if the 19% tax increase 
slated for next year was related to the Rock
well contract, Reagan replied: Our survey 
of other major nations indicates that the 
U.S. has one of the lowest tax rates. 
Plans are being made to study the social 
impact of widespread shuttling. Some social 
scientists have claimed that many people 
would withdraw inside their shutdes and 
refuse to bathe or talk to other people. 
Minori:, and civic leaders have also 
expressed concern that social and arts spend
ing would be diverted to fund personal 
shuttles.
In order to prevent disruption of the space
Lectures important part of education
By Herbert Simon
Perhaps the most remarkable thing about 
universities is how long-lived they are. Few 
human institutions have lived as long as 
individual universities. Im not speaking 
just of the university as a type of 
institution, but of the longevity 
of the individual universities. 
The University of Bologna and 
the University of Paris are about 800 years 
old, and "Oxford and Cambridge are more 
than 700 years old. And, if my World 
Almanac is to be trusted, which it usually is, 
some 16 American universities celebrated 
their bicentennials before our nation did.
Now, when an institution is as durable as 
that  when it lives longer than elephants 
are reputed to do  it must be flexible. It 
.must be capable of adapting itself to many 
environments, many social climates, and it 
must be capable erf performing many func
tions. We can see how this adaptiveness 
occurs if we look in detail at some of the 
most durable technologies that the univer
sity uses in doing its work.
The lecture is one of those durable tech
nologies. The lecture in those ancient uni
versities was instituted before the invention 
of printing, and was terribly essential then. 
It provided a way of transmitting and copy
ing knowledge. And yet the lecture survived 
the invention of printing in the 15th cen-tury. I try to persuade my students, when 
they are busy taking notes, that printing 
does it much faster and even cheaper , that 
perhaps they had better just sit and listen 
and let their pens be quiet for a while.
The lecture has even survived the inven
tion of TV. I think it will continue to survive 
because, in addition to its overt function of 
transmitting knowledge, such knowledge as 
can be discovered in the words of the lec
turer, it fulfills many implicit functions for
the teachers and for the students in the lec
ture room. For the teacher, who is a litde bit 
of an actor and a ham (not all actors are 
hams, you understand, nor are all teachers 
who are actors hams). To put it more objec
tively, for a teacher who enjoys interaction 
with an audience, the lecture room is a fine 
place to experience those pleasures and exer
cise those skills. For the shy teacher who is 
earnestly enthusiastic about his subject, but 
who find intimate contact with other 
human beings sometimes a little difficult, 
there is immediately behind him the black
board, and he can reolutely turn his face to 
it, impart his knowledge to the blackboard, 
and have it reflected to the audience.
The student can be an eager participant 
in the lecture room with his hands franti
cally waving to gain the attention of the 
teacher, or he can listen and earnestly 
absorb, or he can practice his skills of pen
manship, or he can sit quietly in his seat and 
dream his dreams. Its because of the flexibil
ity of that social setting, because not all of us 
have to be doing the same thing, thinking 
the same thing, acting the same way, when, 
from a superficial standpoint, we would 
have thought that it had lost its central and 
original function to the printing press and 
to other methods of transmitting 
knowledge.
Now we can take that lesson and apply it 
to the university as a whole. The university 
also has many functions. Professors think of 
the university as a place where new knowl
edge is created and old knowledge is reinter
preted. With students, you have to 
determine which students youre talking 
about before you can say what the function 
of the university is for them.
For some students its a place where 
knowledge is transmitted to them because 
they want to become professors, or they
want to prepare themselves for professions, 
or some other kind of useful livelihood. For 
others, quite apart from the formal transmis
sion of knowledge, they think that it is a 
good environment in which to grow to 
adulthood, or to find a wife or husband, or 
to make useful friends.  or just friends, 
useful or not, or to taste of liberal educaitons. All these and more are the motives that 
bring students to universities, and not all of 
the motives apply to all students.
The marvel about it is that these functins 
co-exist, usually amicably, but almost 
always fruitfully, on the campus. Nor is it 
necessary that a university be just one of 
those things or serve just one of these func
tions even for a single student. In particular, 
the conflict often announced between professioal and liberal goals of education is lar
gely illusory. Professional subjects can and 
should be taught in a liberal way, and liberal 
subjects can and should be taught with due 
regard and attention for their usefulness in 
what we in the universities call the "Real 
World, the world that students are going to 
enter when they leave the university halls.
I want to discuss the role of the university 
in the transmission and especially in the crea
tion of knowledge. That role is the universicontinued on page 3
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the top of page two, and are the 
official opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Columns are the opinions of individual authors who 
are usually on The Tartan staff, but the opinions are 
not necessarily those of The Tartan Editorial B<jard. 
Letter to the editor are opinions ofindwidual authors 
who are usually members of the University commun
ity. A letter intended for publication must be signed and 
include the wnters address and phone number for 
imfication. Names will be withheld upon request. 
The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter.
program, Rockwell is designing the per
sonal shuttie. NASA plans to design an j 
interim personal shutde which will be 
available in a few months. The head of v
NASA, currendy touring western Europe in f
an attempt to convince other countries to 
purchase the Rockwell PSs, was unavaila
ble for comment. The NASA press office 
indicated that the interim shutde will have a 
maximum altitude of 250 feet, making 
expensive life-support systems unnecessary. 
Interim shutdes may be launched from any 
of nine publice launch pads.
When doubtful reporters asked whether 
nine pads would be enough, Reagan replied 
that ... of course it will be, since most of the 
time the PSs will be operated in a stationary 
standalone mode. He explained that this 
will familiarize Americans with shutde 
operations without the expense of actual 
fuel consumption. He also reminded reports 
that the shutde could be safely launched up 
to 25 feet in the air from any flame-retardant 
picnic table. This should meet the shutde 
needs of most Americans, he stated.
One dubious reporter asked if the low 
maximum altitude and small paylead 
capacity wouldnt preclude many of the 
more practical uses of the shutdes. For the 
next few years we will be increasing space 
shuttle capacity at a much faster rate than at 
any time in our history, responded the 
President.
Phil Almquist and Mike Inners are 
former members of the Computation Center 
Software Staff who recently resigned.
Ihefaki.
/ same ysMbc ymscyousc
Editor in Chief................................Monica Gellio
Managing Editor.........................Gregg Boss lei
Business Manager......................... Kathy Wasch
News Editor...................................Pauline Wen
Features Editor.........................Pauline Kramer
Entertainment Editor.........................Susan Petrie
Sports Editor.......................................Ric Medrow
Photography Editor.......................Steve Winawer
Production Manager.............Carolyn Speranza
Ad Manager...................................Bonnie Topi
Typesetting Manager.....................Patti Carlisle '7
Art Director.................................Michael Sussman
Contributing Editor.................Vincent Guinto
Assoc. News Editor___Christopher Johnston
Assistant Business Mgr.................Tara Dieguez
Asst. Production MgT..........................Peter Bain
Production Staff: Bob Aarhus, Doug Blair, 
Andrew Ghali, Scott Safier.
Copyright 1983 by The Tartan. The Editorial Board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: 
.Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo 52.
(412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone, (412)578-2115. Mailing j 
address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh PA 15213.
Funded by the Activities Fee.
AU rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

September 6, 1983The TartanPage 3%
Letter
Lambda Sigma recruits
Dear Class of 87,
As a sophomore, I am well aware of the 
freshman worries at the start of your college 
career. Academics, sports, fraternities, and 
many other extra-curricular activities in 
which even the most scholastically-oriented 
student can find time to participate.
Lambda Sigma, a sophomore honor/ser
vice society, has thirty chapters nationwide. 
The Eta Chapter of Camegie-Mellon is 
committed to promoting fellowship, scho
larship, service, and leadership. This years 
forty-eight members will be involved in
fund-raisers, social events, and campus com
munity events such as Spring Carnival.
To qualify for admittance to Lambda 
Sigma your sophomore year, you must 
attain a grade point average of 3.25 or higher 
the first semester of your freshman year, and 
you must possess demostrable school spirit 
and enthusiasm. We in Lambda Sigma 
invite you to be our followers next year.
I am pleased to add my welcome to you to 
one of the finest universities in the count? y.
Steven D. Murc*- 
President, Lambda Sigma
Simon discusses education
continued from page 2
tys essential role, without which the others 
are vain and empty. Im someumes rather 
amazed at how litde this is understood out
side the university, by the public, sometimes 
even by university trustees.
Research is soetimes regarded by people 
who are not doing it much as is drinking or 
smoking pot. That is to say, as an indul
gence for people who really should be work
ing at something else. But research is not an 
indulgence. It provides the lifeblood, the 
new knowledge that enables the university 
to perform its essential function and those 
other functions that are dependent on this 
essential function. It is central to the univer
sity, and there is excitement in doing it, as 
well as the joy and nobility erf intellectual 
pursuits, and the exercise of the mind.
At the same dme we must avoid the sin of 
pride, or supposing that somehow or other 
that particular kind of pleasure and that 
particular kind of excellence is more impor
tant than other kinds. One thing that gives 
me a little bit of humility about intellectual 
accomplishment is the overall result of arti
ficial intelligence research in the last 20 to 25 
years.
Compare the very great difficulty erf pro
gramming computers to simulate the coor
dination between the human eye and the 
human hand, with the enormous progress 
that has been made in programming com
puters to simulate the thinking and 
problem-solving that goes on inside the 
human head. There is a vast difference in the 
difficulty of simulating the skills of the bul
ldozer driver as compared with the relative 
ease of simulating the skills of the professor 
or the businessman. We have made substan
tially more progress in understanding and 
simulating the functions of thinking and 
decision making than we have of the coordi
nation of the human eye, and the human 
hand, which we use to perform our most 
delicate actions in the world.
Those of us who live in the academic 
community or live by intellectual endeavors 
can, I think, gain a certain amout of humil
ity from the knowledge that thinking apparendy is not by any means the most complex 
of the activities that human beings engage
in; that more complex activ. e involved 
in the simple everyday acts that enable us to 
get around in the world, that enable us to 
take effective action in our contacts widi the 
real world of physical objects.
Dr. Herbert Simon, Nobel Laureate in Eco
nomics, is a University Professor in Psychol
ogy. This article is an excerpt from a speech 
he gave to the Board of Trustees last spring.
r------------
JteXSToge
yri j
yr
/
X
/
/
//
/
/
  
CMU
a.'iS^fAJ
Guilt motivates some, pressure others
By Wendy Scott
Well, its the beginning of another semes
ter. All the upperclassmen are making their 
New Semester Resolutions. You know 
what I mean. Its the No more all-nighters, 
gonna get my work done sooner, 
not gonna fall behind syn; drome. Weie all going to raise 
our QPAs, lose weight, find 
time to exercise, and get more sleep. The 
freshmen have the same kind of attitude;
theyre going to make their mark.
So. Were all psyched, all geared up  
giving each other pep talks, setting our 
goals in the sky.
Why? What motivates us? A lot erf us seem 
to be busy proving ourselves. To whom, 
though? Parents? Sometimes. Other stu
dents? Sometimes. Mosdy, though, we seem 
to need to succeed in order to accept our
selves. I mean, its as if our worth as people 
was contingent upon our QPAs, our
appearance, our jobs.
Some motives are more negative, though. 
I have known people driven by guilt. Sadly, 
though, all a persons efforts are never 
enough to relieve the guilt. Our motives 
should not be whips which drive us onward. 
When they become such, we cannot even 
really enjoy our achievements once we do 
attain them.
Wendy Scott is a junior in Psychology 
and is a columnist for The Tartan.
Freshmen advised on grades, fun, research, frats
they made the professionalBy Chris Johnston
The majority of you reading this print are 
undoubtedly freshmen undergraduates 
driven by curiosity to a first time examina
tion of The Tartan. As a result, Im spoon
ing out this slop especially for 
your swilling pleasure.
Lets try to get a few things 
straight in order to properly 
launch you on your academic career. The 
first tidbit concerns your youthful energy. 
Many people here are going to try to make 
you lose your excitement. You might tend to 
forget about what you really wanted to do in 
college when you get into the rut of classes. 
It turns out that your only autumn social life 
will be centered around the Greeks trying to 
buy your butts into the brotherhood. You 
see, we dont have a Student Union in which 
to hang out, so the Frats are an easy in on 
friendship for the less hardy.
Often the upperclassmen youll come in 
contact with have their excitement strangled 
by their own desperate pursuit of money. 
The monetary goal had become so impor
tant that little else now matters to them. In
Plane sbot down
Nate condemns Russians
By Nate Solano
I wish to express my deepest revulsion 
concerning the Soviet facist Communist 
oppressor Pig-Dog Russian loser downing 
of passenger flight 007 from New York to 
Seoul. This blatandy stupid act 
offends even the most offensive 
of us and calls for immediate 
retaliation. I have cut my vacation 
short and returned to my Skibo office. 
I onight I have called for a special caucus of 
my closest (beer drinking) advisors to shape
further policy.
Presendy ROTC has been moved to 
Number 2 batde readiness and a pre
emptive strike has been launched (If we had 
nuclear weapons it might have been 
noticed.)
I urge you to fly your curtains at half mast 
in memory of the brave tourists who died for 
their countries.
Thank you and God bless.
Nate Solano is a senior in AMS and is 
president of student government.
other words, 
choice.
Activities abound that yearn for your 
involvement, but you have to go after them. 
Nothing will be laid in your laps, nor 
should it be. Whether it be writing for this 
newspaper or joining the ham radio club, 
you can do it if you are willing to go at it.
The next thing you should remember is 
to forget your grades until Junior year. This 
rule applies universally unless you happen 
to be doing something that you enjoy. Occa
sionally core courses can be a kick, but dont 
hold your breath. You can slide by for now 
with a 1.75 QPA. If every freshman gets a 
1.75, then everybody can claim to be at the 
top of the class.
If you arent rich and are worrying about 
getting a job, be warned that youll miss out 
on a lot of fun unless you get a gcxxl one. 
The ethic of the hard-working/hardstudying student went out with Horatio 
Alger and heroic dogs. About half the stuff 
on the work-study list are probably the worst 
jobs you could ever land. If your parents feel 
any consternation at this decision (assum
ing you havent already cut off all other than 
monetary contact with them) threaten to 
join the Love Israel cult or the Lamb Fel
lowship, and theyll quickly shut up. You 
might also point out that the employment 
rate of the Humanities school graduates 
here at CMU rose 20 percent last year, then 
mention that youre trying to become more 
well-rounded through deeper school invol
vement.
Now for the hard facts. The undergrad is 
the nigger of the University. All that stuff 
you read or saw about research and develop
ment is tine, but youll probably never do 
much of it as an undergrad. The good stuff 
goes to grad students, because theyve 
already proved themselved as scholars and as
reliable in a particular field of academics.
Another depressing reality is that at 
CMU, research comes first and teaching 
second. This is a research based University. 
Faculty members can only nurture their 
careers by bringing the laudits of Academia 
and the world to CMU. The only way to do 
that is by being outstanding in their respec
tive field They may also teach very well, 
but teaching is a quality that isnt necessar
ily important to academic success.
Even these problems can be overcome. If 
you work hard enough at convincing a 
researcher that youre serious about the sub
ject in which he or she specializes, then you 
will be recognized at the right time. The 
main legitimate complaint of many faculty 
is that the students are apathetic and lazy 
and therefore dont deserve the short hairs 
from their rosey red ones. Theyre far too 
correct. Thats why you should retain your 
excitement. There are a lot erf jerks among 
the faculty, just like there are a lot of jerks 
throughout society as a whole (you may 
even be one yourself), but if you show 
enough interest youll get what you want.
I should also mention that the Adminis
tration is thoughtfully trying to alleviate 
that problem of poor teaching through 
teaching seminars and the CMU Teaching 
Center. You can help there by lending y9ur 
comments, posited positively, to either the 
Center, The Tartan, or your teachers. You 
may better your own education and improve 
someone elses.
Then of course you can sit back and take a 
nap before dinner. If thats what you want to 
do, thats okay. After all, youll have the 
University name to carry you along after 
you graduate and begin your pursuit of dol
lars.
Chris Johnston is a junior in Creatnr 
Wnting and Philosophy.

---------------------------------------------------

AB Concerts Presents: 
of King Crimson
8 p.m. Sunday, September 18 Tickets on sale Wednesday, September 7  Skibo Desk
Skibo Ballroom $5 with CMU ID
$7 without CMU ID
Funded by Activities Fee Listen to WRCT 88.3 FM for his new LP Twang Bar King

---------------------------------------------------

September 6, 1983The TartanPage 5
H&SS Dean 
Kiesler new
> By PAULINE WEN
Tartan News Editor
Its an easy job thanks to Pat Crecine, 
said Charles Kiesler of his predecessor as 
Dean of H&SS. Kiesler, one of the leading 
social psychologists in the United States, has 
held the position since June 1.
Kiesler sees the college movipg on to a 
new stage, a result of the major changes in 
core curriculum made under former Dean 
John P. Crecine.
Job offers have significandy increased in 
H&SS. Liberal Arts majors deserve more 
credit than they are usually given. H&SS is 
as good as the other colleges. H&SS and 
CFA make the University. Without them 
[CMU] would be a tech school.1
I worry about how people see us. [The 
term] Computer U is misleading. [H&SS] 
disconfirms Computer U.
However, Kiesler does not feel that H&SS 
is being forgotten in the furor over compu
ters at CMU. He cited examples of how 
H&SS is integrating computers into their 
classes. The psychology department is get
ting a new computer lab. There will also be 
a new writing center, to be constructed 
where Public Relations currendy resides. 
The writing center will integrate computers 
and writing in teaching, correcting tech
nicalities and grammar.
We are changing how writing is 
taught, he said. CMU is on the road to 
becoming unique. We are not a Tech school 
and not a regular University. We have the 
strengths of both.
Kiesler was replaced as head of the psychol
ogy department by David Klahr, who will be 
Acting Head until the national search is 
finished.
photo by Steve Winawer
Alpha Tau Omega is once again a recognized CMU fraternity. The fraternity was put on 
probation last spring.Alpha Tau Omega re-established
By BILL FOSTER
Tartan Staffivriter
Alpha Tau Omega was reinstated as a fully 
recognized fraternity this semester. ATO 
was restricted by the administration last 
spring due to incidents involving some of its 
members.
ATO may now participate fully in Uni
versity activities, such as Fall Rush, I.M. 
Sports, Greek Sing, and Spring Carnival. 
According to Dean of Student Affairs Brad 
Walter, the reconferring of University 
recognition was an expected move. They 
knew that if they worked with us and made 
some major changes in the fraternity, they 
would be reinstated as a fraternity on proba
tion this fall, he commented.
ATOs president Mark Oberkirker con
firmed that the fraternity is back' in full 
Greek status, and added that relations with
the University were improved. I think that 
theres a new pride in the house and I think 
we can start this year off on the right foot. 
ATO will continue to be on probation until 
1985.
ATO was placed on probation last spring 
as a result of offenses which included injur
ies to a female student, theft of a tree from 
Schenley Park, and public nudity.r. y.
Dean Walter said that the probation is a 
kind of final warning. ATO is being scrutin
ized very carefully, and we will not tolerate 
any behavior of that kind, or some more 
serious action will take place.
He added that we saw enough progress 
last year at ATO, that I am willing to let 
theme re-establish their status. I am hopeful 
that 'this is going to be a good year for 
ATO.
Computing meeting 
next Wednesday
By CHRISTOPHER JOHNSTON
Tartan Associate News Editor
An Open meeting on Computing will 
be held on Wednesday, September 7, from 10 
a.m. to noon in the Wherret RoomatSkibo. 
The university community is invited to 
attend the meeting and ask questions.
Vice-Provost for academic affairs Pat Cre
cine will begin the meeting with a discus
sion of educational computing and net
working. Computation Center Director 
Robert Cape will follow with an explana
tion of the computation centers move to the 
University Computation Center Building 
(UCCB). Cape will also discuss the distribu
tion of accounts on the TOPS-20 system, 
service plans for Wean Hall after the move, 
and rate changes. He will also mention pub
lic access to personal computers (PCs), net
working for PCs, and the present status of 
the software staff. Bill Sholar will augment 
Capes talk with a description of plans for 
the PC store and personal computer 
support.
Dr. Jill Larkin will talk about the educa
tional computing grant program. Larkin is 
happy that the meeting is being held. Its 
my understanding that they wanted to bring 
together people from the Administration 
who are most responsible for thinking hard 
about where computing is going at CMU.
James Morris, Information and Technol
ogy Center Director, will discuss plans for 
the nC and the release of early ITC systems. 
Software Director Ray Scott will talk about 
office automation and office use of PCs.
Vice-Provost in charge of computing, 
Douglas Van Houweling will close the dis
cussion with summary remarks concerning 
the PC delivery status and the PC grant 
program. He will then chair a question and 
answer session with the audience.
&  
ff
CMU -----Martial Art Club
Beginners are welcome
The objective of the 
CMU Martial Art Club is to 
train a well rounded individual 
in the field of martial art. We 
seek to explore variety in the 
oriental art of self-defense from which 
an individual can select the techniques 
that he or she can adapt to best. Martial 
art training increases physical fitness and 
awareness of the mind and body, and so can 
* be called an art of self-cultivation.
CMU Martial Art Club instructs these arts:
Tae Kwon Do Karate, the way of the hand and 
foot, the Korean style known for its spectacular 
and devastating kicks: and Ju-Jitsu. based on 
opponent manipulation, principles of m.otion. 
and throwing.
Head InstructorRobert Opalsky 
Special Guest InstuctorCurtis Smith
meets at Thistle Hall CMU Gymnasium 
Monday 8:00-9:30 p.m.  Wednesday 7:30-9:00 p.m.
First meeting Wednesday. September 7 at 7 30 p m

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanSeptember 6, 1983
Ange/Jordan moves up
Provost seeks excellence
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan News Editor
[I want to see] CMU go into another 
level of excellence, says CMUs new Pro
vost Angel Jordan. Since July 1, Jordan, 
former Dean of CIT, has taken over the job 
of Provost. Jordan was replaced as Dean of 
CIT by James Williams, former President of 
Mellon Institute.
As Provost, Jordan oversees CIT, MCS, 
GSLA, SUPA, the Robotics Institute and 
Mellon Institute, as well as research 
throughout the entire University. He pre
sides on the Deans council, of which John 
P. Crecine, Vice President of Academic 
Affairs and former Dean of H&SS, is a 
member.
I believe if thecompetition is stiff we can 
succeed to get our share of outstanding stu
dents and faculty. The combination of good 
leadership, faculty and administration, and 
public relations, has attracted a core of 
faculty members with high reputations 
[which are] growing nicely, commented 
Jordan.
He added, In the last seven or eight years,
CMU has reached a truly national and inter
national reputation. We are in the major 
leagues.
Jordan hopes to maintain the momen
tum of the university. He would like to 
establish bridges between the administra
tion and the rest of the University. He also 
wants to establish good communication 
between the staff and the faculty and stu
dents. His only concern about CMU stu
dents is that they may neglect social 
interaction between the different colleges. 
Jordan said it was very important that 
people from the different schools know each 
other so that they would have a better 
appreciation for other students.
According to Jordan, one of the greatest 
things to happen at CMU is the Teaching 
Center. The Teaching Center he says, will 
make the faculty more concious of what 
excellence is.
[CMU has] to be a research institute to 
attract top notch faculty members, [but] edu
cation is also of prime importance. CMU 
can do both. There has to be a balance.
photo by Scott Safier
The Activities Fair was held once again last Thursday, September 1. George Gee fc his 
Make-Believe Ballroom orchestra provided music.Temporary housing for designers
continued from page 1
the printing office is completed. The photo 
equipment is across the hall for now, and 
the animation program located there has 
been disbanded.
Junior and senior graphic designers will 
be moving to the old freshman studios
sometime this week, after the area has been 
cleaned and the new equipment installed. 
Freshmen will be moving just upstairs, to 
the area where the design shop was located, 
as soon as the furniture arrives.
The design shop will join industrial j 
continuad on page 7
Meacbing Center bolds first new faculty seminar
continued from page 1
of Hugh Young was used to show the way 
mistakes on the part of the students were 
handled. Richard Moore was commended 
for his conversational and stimulating tone 
and actions. Adele Lindenmeyr was pointed 
out for the comfortable atmosphere and 
encouragement she used to make students 
ask questions. Rob Levin had an organized, 
efficient and goal-setting manner in his 
class. Fenton commented that of all the
teachers, Moore and Young received the 
most laudatory remarks.
Fenton also stressed the importance of 
attendance and making students realize they 
cant sit in class and hope to absorb the 
material. He pointed out that while teach
ing, it is necessary for the teacher to think as 
if he/she were the student and struggling to 
understand. In this way, the teacher and the 
student can relate on a one to one basis.
The last part of the seminar featured a 
panel of faculty, one from each of the four 
major colleges. Ann Rose (H&SS), Doug 
Cooper (CFA), Jim Folbert (CIT) and Hugh 
Young (MCS) answered questions posed by 
the audience.
Sample syllabi, evaluations and copies of 
responses to the student questionnaires, in 
addition to other pertinent information, 
were available. The seminar ended with
refreshments and an informal get-together 
for all.
Faculty seminars will be held on the last 
Monday of the month through November 
and January through March in the Adam-V 
son Wing from 4:00 to 5:00 p.m. Next 
months seminar will feature Herb Simon 
lecturing on The Implications of Research 
in Complex Information Processing for 
Teaching at CMU.
Carnegie-Mellon 
Instrumental Ensembles: 
Chamber Orchestra 
Philharmonic 
Wind Ensemble
are open by audition to all members 
of the campus community
For further information and audition appointment 
Please call 578-2372
JEWISH HOLIDAYS
STUDENTS.........
WHO WOULD LIKE TO 
RESERVE SEATS FOR 
THE HIGH HOLIDAYS 
IN A LOCAL SYNA
GOGUE
STUDENTS.........
WHO WOULD LIKE TO 
ENJOY THE HOLIDAY 
MEALS IN A WARM 
FAMILY ATMOSPHERE
PLEASE CALL 52I-37I8 ANYTIME!
for this free service 
sponsored by 
The Benjamin Olender Foundation 
for the Furtherance of Jewish Education
4

---------------------------------------------------

---------------------------
September 6, 1983The TartanPage 7
Move is beneficial
Design gets rearranged
continued from page 6
design in the ground floor of Porter Hall in 
the printing office. Some of the shops 
equipment is temporarily located in Baker 
132H, in an area one half of its original size.
The sophomores will remain in their 
same studios, across the hall from the 
freshmen.
Overall, the industrial design students are 
affected the most by the changes, because 
they will be in temporary studios for at least 
a month.
Many students were originally under the 
impression that design was to be com
pressed to a much smaller area. Deanna 
McCuster, senior industrial design, observed 
that the situation does not appear bad now, 
but she commented, the only problem is 
that its a temporary situation. She added 
that it is difficult to begin a project knowing 
that one must soon move.
Swinehart sees the move from designers 
alley to printing beneficial to the student 
and a more efficient use of space. According 
to Swinehart, since designers alley had been 
used for offices up until eight years ago, it 
has a lot of wasted hallway space. He also 
pointed out that industrial design will be 
located near their shop and that they will 
have a loading dock available.
Elayne Prince, senior graphic design, 
liked the individual office type setting with 
about eight people per studio. You can 
only work with the facilities only if you have 
the proper space to work in, said Prince. 
The studios provided you with privacy.
Swinehart believes that having the stu
dents work in one large room will be better 
for them, explaining that the students leam 
from each other. He added that it will be 
easier for the instructors to teach the students 
when they are all together.
Privacy as far as security for materials is a 
problem, agreed Swinehart. He said that 
there may be difficulty in finding lockers for 
everyone, but he assured students that they 
will be provided. '
Several students complained about the 
late notice they received about the changes. 
A junior graphic design student commented
that our department doesnt tell us much. 
Another student compared the situation to 
the time when it was thought that CFA was 
phasing out the fibers program, saying that 
the college was also trying to phase out 
design.
Swinehart responded that since plans 
with the design department were changing 
daily, the students were notified as soon as 
possible. About $2000 was wasted in repairs 
and maintenance that were later redone, 
according to Swinehart.
About phasing out the department, 
Swinehart said, design has been around 
such a long time that I dont think they (the 
University) would be doing away with it. 
He pointed out that there are only five or six 
design departments in the country and that 
here it is administered separately from the 
rest of fine arts.
The animation program, however, has 
been phased out because it had too few stu
dents, it could not compete with other 
schools with larger departments, and 
because the instructor retired, according to 
Swinehart.
One student was unhappy that design 
was rearranged in order to give computer 
science and robotics more room. I get the 
feeling were being put aside for more 
important things, she said.
The whole school has very much of an 
entrepeneurial attitude, and we have to live 
with that, responded Swinehart. He 
referred to the design departments research 
projects with the Continental Can Com
pany and with IBM, which bring in about 
one half of the departments budget.
Joseph Ballay, head of design, has been 
on a one-year leave of absence since July 1 in 
order to work on the IBM project.
An industrial designer, commenting 
about the former facilities, observed, the 
studios have gone downhill since Ive 
started. Swinehart agreed: Yes I think 
space has gone downhill, he said, because 
no one really cared about it  faculty or 
students. He said that new measures will be 
instituted to ensure that the new furniture 
and studios are not vandalized.
St. Basil's
ORTHODOX CHRISTIAN 
FELLOWSHIP
Discussion and Worship
Wednesdays, 7:30-8:30 p.m., Skibo 39
Student contact: Nicholas Klipa 578-4664
McClures
Carpeting
Ask for DAVE GERMAN
1701 E. Carson Street 
(5 minutes from Oakland) 
381-5140 All Styles 
Paint Supplies All Colors 
Room size rugs, remnents 
Call for directions
15% Discount on carpeting (9 x 12 Carpet Only $39.95)
Drink it up & 
keep the cup!
Dominos Pizza is giving 
away a free plastic cup 
and lid! Order a cola with 
your pizza and well give 
you something to 
remember us by. The 
colorful Domino's Pizza 
cup holds a generous 16 
ounces and comes with 
its own lid. Made of 
durable plastic, it is dish
washer safe and reusable. 
Youll want to collect a 
dozen 1
Take advantage of this 
special offer, good while
supplies last. No coupon 
necessary
At Domino's Pizza we 
make only pizza ...pizzas 
are our business, fast, 
free delivery is our 
specialty. Give us a call'
Fast, Free Delivery
310 N. Craig St.
Phone: 681-1700
Our drivers carry less 
than $10.00.
Limited delivery area.
1981 Dominos tn>
Domino s Pizza Delivers.

---------------------------------------------------

FRMMDOM
--------- -----
SUPMR PRICMS
WELCOME
BACKCMU
7-ELEVEN WELCOME BACK SPECIALS
 MOREWOOD AT CENTER AVENUE 
(TAKE THE CMU SHUTTLE)
 3955 FORBES AVENUE
PEPPepsi-Cola
SPMCIAL
990
2-UTER BOTTLES
LARGE 
22 OZ. 
SLURPEE
490
SMALL BOX OFPOPCORN
WITH THE PURCHASE 
OF ABIG GULP
SNYDMR'S POTATOCHIPS
2 for 990
MIX OR MATCH 4 OZ. BAGS
REGISTER TO WIN:
DAILY PRIZES
NAME
7-ELEVEN  
PARTY PACK 
NAME______________
ADDRESS
PHONE
ADDRESS
PHONE
VIDEO CONTEST
OVER 25 PRIZES 
SEPT. 8 & 9 
ALSO 
ECKRICH ALL BEEFHOTDOGS
2 FOR 99C 
MOREWOOD LOCATION ONLY
SPECIALS AVAILABLE SEPT. 6 THRU SEPT. 11 AT ABOVE LOCATIONS
The One Place Where Freedom and Super Prices Meet

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Dan Rather visits CMU for CBS Special Report
Dan Rather, anchorman of the CBS 
Evening News, visited CMU in early 
August to research a CBS Special Report" to 
be aired Labor Day week. Tartan associate 
news editor Christopher Johnston and news 
editor Pauline Wen conducted the interview.
Tartan: Do you feel you've gotten an 
accurate idea of what CMU is like?
Rather: Well, in such a short stay, I 
couldnt say that we got a whole lot, but 
were putting together a series of short 
reports for the CBS evening news, and weve 
been doing our homework. We came up 
with several specific things, we wanted to see 
the Vmail, that is the Voice delivered mail 
machine. And just to take a litde look 
around this morning as to whats going on 
at the University. As you know, and you 
should be proud of, there are three main 
places in this country that do this kind of 
work: M.I.T., Stanford, and CamegieMellon. Ill put the best last. But that is basi
cally what we did here this morning. We 
have no illusions about it. Im not a compu
ter expert and its not possible to become one 
in such a short period of time. But we do 
hope to have this series of reports on compu
ters, and what you should know about 
them, right after Labor Day.
Tartan: Do you think the idea of corpo
rate research could present a problem to 
universities? For instance, someone could 
say that CMU sold out to IBM and other 
corporations?
Rather: Well, as a guest Im not sure I 
want to get very far into that, but I think 
obviously that one could see conflicts of 
interest that might be something for the 
Universitys conscience to consider. But 
from what Ive seen and heard here, I think
CMU New Yorkers meet
that maybe youre a long way from that. I 
take the thrust of your question that such 
cooperation can be too close and then the 
disadvantage could become too great, to the 
University. I have in mind that this Univer
sity has been doing this kind of work for a 
very long time and can be reasonably confi
dent that theyve worked out many if not 
most of those problems. The question 
might better be asked if the University had 
not been doing it as long as this. But Im not 
sure Im right about that. As you probably 
know, Im often wrong.
Tartan: Short of the President, is there 
another man more powerful than you in 
this country?
Rather: Sure, a lot of people.
Tartan: But you have the ability to influ
ence peoples opinion.
Rather: I think thats true, there is that 
power, but frankly I think its vastly over
stated. Whatever we have at the CBS evening 
news with Dan Rather is to inform. In that 
sense, one might argue that we also have the 
power to persuade. Im not so sure that the 
latter of that is true. Except in the limited 
sense, that we do have the power to inform. 
With the power to inform, with the power to 
inform you give people the information to 
make up their minds. In that rather vague 
general sense, we do have the power to per
suade, but I do think that our power is vastly 
overstated, because people in this country 
are accustomed to making up their own 
minds. For example, if your friendly anchor 
person on the CBS Evening News or any
where else began to tell you what to think, I 
think one marker of America is how his 
neck will swell.
Tartan: But still, if for instance, CBS
Evening News chooses to show footage of 
either rebels fighting guardsmen, or smiling 
guardsmen and peasants in native garb, 
wouldnt that influence the opinions of the 
people who watch it?
Rather: It would, so long as they believe 
that we are making a good faith effort to be 
accurate. So long as our credibility holds, 
what you just said is true. The key to that is 
we have to not only be accurate and fair, we 
have to be perceived, be seen and heard, as 
being accurate and fair. Otherwise, someone 
woujd shrug his shoulders and say I dont 
know whether that happened or not or 
theyre trying to persuade me in one direc
tion or the other. Thats one reason were 
committed to coverage that is deep and 
down the middle. So people can get the 
information they need to make up their own 
minds.
Tartan: Is there ever a time that you 
thought you did change the course of his
tory in the world?
Rather: No.
Tartan: Did you ever think you could?
Rather: No.
Tartan: Do you ever think you will?
Rather: No.
Tartan: You had a problem with a gentle
man bringing a suit against you a while 
ago. Do you think that he was at all right?
Rather: Naturally, no I dont think he was 
right. In fact, in this case I know that he was 
not right. Im happy to say that a jury of 
good men and women having listened to all 
the evidence in testimony rejected his claims 
and allegations. Thats the American way, 
the American system. I have no complaint 
about that--that we do investigative report
ing. Thats not the only reporting we do, but 
we pride ourselves in doing hard-edged 
investigative reporting. When one does that, 
when one chooses to do that, one can expect 
to have that reporting challenged, including 
sometimes in the courts. I think that we have 
to be prepared to defend our reporting and I 
think that in this case, we were prepared to 
continued on page 11
Tartan writer bears, sees all at Aug. reception
By MONICA SAFRIN
Tartan Staffwriter
In the beginning of July, just when I had 
finally forgotten that a place called 
Camegie-Mellon existed, I received an invi
tation from the Camegie-Mellon University 
New York City Clan asking me to attend a 
cocktail reception in honor of the class of 
1987. I was pretty surprised by it because I 
wasnt aware that there was such a thing as a 
New York City Clan.
A week or two later, I called Jane Haber to 
RSVP, as the invitation instructed. We chat
ted a bit after I told her that I planned to 
attend. She had been under the impression 
that only freshmen were invited, so the fact 
that I am a junior was a litde disorienting. 
(The question, Are you looking forward to 
going to Carnegie? didnt exacdy apply.) 
She asked me which department I was in 
and whether I planned to go to grad school. 
Eventually, the conversation shifted back to 
the subject of the cocktail reception. I found 
out that the New York City Clan is com
posed of alumni living/working in the New 
York area.
The cocktail reception was held on 
Thursday, August 11,6:30 p.m., at The Wil
liams Club, on East 39th Street between 
Madison and Park Avenues. The weather 
that day was about the worst New York City 
had all summer and was very Pittsburghlike: an overcast sky, rain most of the day ...
Inside the Williams Club, I was greeted by 
an alumnus who made me a name tag. He 
wrote FR on it (for Freshman) before I 
could stop him, but then changed it to JR. 
Duly labelled, I entered a large room in 
which about 20 people were walking 
around, mingling. Almost immediately, I 
was greeted by Bill Crookston, who then 
introduced me to Ann Marie, a freshman, 
and her aunt. (I learned later that Mr. Crook
ston is president of the local (NYC) alumni 
chapter.) As we started talking, I realized 
that they thought I was a freshman. After I 
set them straight, they explained that they 
had been mislead by my name tag  it was
written in red ink, the color reserved for 
freshmen.
Although I was ony disguised as a 
freshman, they were all willing to talk to me. 
Mr. Crookston answered my questions 
about the New York City Clan, telling me 
that since Drama graduates in NYC have 
had a successful Clan for a long time, other 
alumni felt that a similar group, encom
passing all area alumni, would be wellreceived. I answered some questions Ann 
Marie asked about housing and food service 
at CMU.
Later on, I got a drink and talked to peo
ple that Id met before at CMU. It was nice 
seeing some friends a couple of weeks sooner 
than I had expected, and even nicer speak
ing to those who graduated in May, whom I 
hadnt thought Id ever see again.
At about 7:30, Brad Walter, Dean erf Stu
dent Affairs, gave a short speech. Praising 
the New York City Clan for the cocktail 
reception (great idea), he went on to speak 
about the university; that is, the enormous 
changes that have taken place over the years 
(due to Cyert); the fact that last years fresh
man orientation yielded a more informed 
and involved freshman class; the benefits of 
Freshman Camp (he just happened to have 
a few applications with him); the personal 
computers on campus; the new people (Crecine, Jordan) in Warner Hall; the exciting 
activities Anne Witchner (Activities Board) 
has planned; the visit by Hill Street Blues 
alumni on Homecoming weekend.
An estimated 100 people were present at 
the reception. Those whom I talked to all 
felt that it was a good idea. Jean Pellegrini, a 
fairly recent graduate (and former Tartan 
Editor-in-Chief) involved in the planning 
was pleased to see that it worked out so well.
Robbee Baker, Director of Foundations 
for Development, was quite pleased about
the reception and the tremendous 
amount of enthusiasm it bred by bringing 
together alumni who are glad they went to 
CMU and students who are glad they go 
there.
Read this...
The Pittsburgh Council of the American 
Youth Hostels now has available copies of 
the 1983 edition of the International Youth 
Hostel Handbook which describes all hos
tels located in Europe and the Mediterra
nean area.
The book is priced at $6.00 and can be 
picked-up at their headquarters during their 
Thursday night open-house meetings 
between 8:30-10:30.
If youd like to order by mail, send a check 
for $7.00 (include postage) made out to 
A.Y.H. and mail to: Pittsburgh Council 
A.Y.H., 6300 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 
15232.
. . . this too
Allegheny Reproductive Health Center 
now offers a free brochure explaining the 
facts on symptoms and treatments of the 
herpes virus. Entided Herpes: Caring and 
Coping, the brochure provides answers to a 
wide range of questions on the medical 
aspects of herpes. It also lists numerous 
books and publications if additional infor
mation is sought, as well as several agencies 
who welcome phone calls on the subject.
To receive copies of Herpes: Caring and 
Coping, please send a stamped selfaddressed envelope to Allegheny Reproduc 
tive Health Center, Suite 920  Highland 
Building, 121 South Highland Avenue, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15206.
tI **
4 J ftr*

---------------------------------------------------

On Tuesday there was
and it was good.
Cover the new wave culture in New YorkCity, an ethics convention in 
Princeton, political rallies in Washington D.C., or the Space Shuttle 
launch in Florida. Meet G. Gordon Liddy or Hal Holbrook, interview Dan 
Rather or Isaac Asimov, or attend the press conferences of President 
Reagan and Jimmy Carter.
Tartan members have done all of these ... and more. Interested?
Come to our 
Staff Orientation Meeting To night (Tuesday, September 6) at 7:30 p.m.
Skibo Room 11 
All are welcome.
If you can't make it, please come to our weekly staff meetings Mondays at 7:30 in Room 
13 or stop by our office in Skibo Room 50 on Sunday.

---------------------------------------------------

September 6, 1983The TartanPage 11
A Kiltie Band first
Boys follow lady drum major
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Features Editor
CMU has its very own Sally K. Ride. 
Although enjoying her notoriety on a more 
down-to-earth scale, junior Chris Hayes 
nevertheless is leading the Kiltie Band as its 
first female drum major.
Is she nervous? Yes, very much so, says 
the South Hills (Pittsburgh) native. Hayes 
should be used to this pressure: she was also 
the first girl to lead her high school band.
In high school there was a lot of pressure 
because I beat out lots of guys; the girls were 
looking to me to do big things, explains 
the chemistry major. Mr. [Paul] Gerlach 
[the bands director] is very helpful, treat
ing her no differendy. Gerlach narrowed his
photo by Scott Safier
CHRIS HAYES
decision to three candidates out of eight; the 
70-member band ultimately elected its new 
drum major.
Hayes has been playing piano since age 8; 
the French horn since high school. Fresh
man year, because she was afraid of time 
constraints, Hayes put on hold her band 
career. In the middle of football season 
sophomore year I missed the horn and went 
ack. One of the hom players luckily had 
dropped out so there was a position for me 
right away.
Although she is rightfully nervous, the 
brown-eyed brunette does not feel pressure 
to perform miracles. People say Wow, 
youre the drum major and not WTow, 
youre the female drum major, which is 
nice.Rather visits
continued from page 9
do so.
Tartan: What would you say to the new, 
new generation that has to face a world of 
extremes. Fun stuff like nuclear war in half 
an hour, TV news that can hit everyone 
with such complete coverage, computers 
that the world may someday be dependent 
upon?
Rather: You have to keep in mind that 
Im a reporter, not a philosopher. I can 
remember, and it must sound like the Napo
leonic campaigns to someone your age, but 
when I was in college there were a lot of 
frightening things in the world. Including 
the birth of the nuclear age. But if you use 
your intelligence, stay steady, and with a 
little bit of luck, youll live a long and fruit
ful life and not worry about it. But Im not 
very good at giving advice.
photos by Steve Winawer
Baker Halls newest edition, the Pauline B. Adamson Wing, is finished after approximately 
a year of construction and is presently hosting classes.
If you are interested
in finding what 
alternative radio 
is all about. . .
WRCT
invites you to our
INTRODUCTORY MEETING This Wednesday, September 7 at 7 pm In Rm 11, Skibo Hall Basement All CMU Students are welcome
(Returning staff meeting in Rm 45, same time)
Be tbere if you are interested in 
getting involved in any aspects of 
radio including news, sports, 
production, public affairs, music 
or disc jockeying. See you tbere!
CMU BASEBALL 
YES!
We have a baseball team. 
Come show us what youve got. 
Tryouts Sept. 7 r 9 
Departing from Skibo Entrance at 4:30 
Schedule includes Pitt, Point Park, 
and Duquesne.
o
For more information, call
Tim Nagy 687-4519 
Bob Flaherty 682-1474
funded by activities fee

---------------------------------------------------

r&* V* ^
Hi FRESHMAN! In case you havent heard yet (hard to 
believe)  the Thistle is CMUs award-winning yearbook. Its 
interesting, fun and it may catch you when you least expect it! Dont 
miss ordering your 1984 THISTLE!
 Welcome back UPPERCLASSMEN! Start the year off right by 
ordering a yearbook  Look for ads SOON! GOOD LUCK this year 
and remember to have fan!
If 4
LATE SUMMER ORDERS for the 1983 THISTLE have
arrived. Pick-up will be in Skibo, Rm. 46A on September 6 from 
10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. OR will be distributed September 13 and 15 
in Skibo Gray Matter from 10:00 a.m. to 5 p.m.  Dont forget!
Anyone interested in joining our friendly staff there are some places 
open! Stop by Skibo Rm 46A or call x2121. Wed love to have you! (no 
experience is mandatory)
I 1i
'<*
' ) 
rl
FUNDED BY STUDENT ACTIVITIES FEE

---------------------------------------------------

Mntertainment
Layering in figurative painting latest trend of Rande Barke
An old fave of CMU, rock/reggae band The Core, played last Friday at the Watermelon Bash.
CMU drama 
gets grant
By CRAIG STEINITZ
Tartan Staffumter
The Drama department received a $7000 
grant from the Vira-Heinz Foundation to 
produce a stage adaptation of Ahason 
Appelfelds novel, Badenheim 1939, accord
ing to Assistant Drama Department Head 
Don Mavinelli.
Badenheim 1939 will have its world pre
mier at CMU in the fall of 84. It will be 
directed by Yossi Yzraely, who Mavinelli 
described as a director thats in demand. 
Yzraely directed the Ghost Sonata last year.
Although the $7000 grant will by no 
means cover all the expenses of Badenheim 
39, Mavinelli pointed out, it will be put to 
good use ... Its nice to know a city founda
tion is willing to support what is truly a 
major new addition to the stage by 
Camegie-Mellon University.
The drama department also received a 
$7500 grant from the Shubert Foundation 
which is being used for scholarships for 
second year graduate playwriting students.
By CAROLYN TERNER
Tartan Staffivriter
In a recent article in Artforum, Marcia 
Tucker describes the new figurative 
painting:
Layering is often used to formally 
enforce ambiguity of interpreta* s|r uon and to oblige the viewer to 
spend a certain amount of time
structing the subject of the painting. 
New York artist Rande Barkes paintings, 
now at CFAs Hewlett Gallery, are multi
layered: they are layered in color, brush
strokes; they are also layered in cliche, 
psychological messages, and metaphor. The 
force behind Barkes complex painting 
comes from the convoluting message on 
these different levels.
3t : SIS deciphering the images and con- The color is intense: in Summer Camp,
Asia's "Alpha" lacks 
quality, but not airplay
By DOUG BLAIR
Tartan Staffivriter
Its a terrible shame that Dont Cry 
from Asias new record, Alpha, is getting so 
much airplay. One might be led into buying 
the album, on the off-chance that it main' tains that quality throughout. 
Much to my six dollars of regret, 
it doesnt.
Dont get me wrong  there 
are flashes of the bands talent on this 
album. Every song is played perfecdy; unfor
tunately, the song just doesnt catch. The 
spirit that drove Heat of the Moment and 
Sole Survivor and Only Time Will Tell 
to the top of last years charts has been left 
behind. Dont Cry is currendy being 
beaten to death on commercial airwaves, 
and The Heat Goes On (the only other 
energetic cut on the album) is starting to 
suffer as well.
Asias songwriting suffers from women.' 
Seven of the ten songs on Alpha deal with 
women. The singer is fighting with the girl 
in four of them, one features absolute devo
tion (Ill never leave you in a million 
years), the sixth is full of sappy praise, and 
Dont Cry, the seventh, offers the most 
interesting story of all. If you just listen to 
the song, it seems like a straightforward boy 
meets girl, girls down in the dumps, boy 
cheers her up and saves the day.
If you think that, youre wrong.
It was the video that enlightened me. (The 
wonders of MTV!) It opens in ancient 
Egypt, where Wetton and the boys are 
exploring. A sandy sime bumps them off, 
one by one, but fails to catch our hero Wet
ton. She drops one tear at the end of the 
video, when Wetton leaves her alone in a 
desert bar. If you find a connecdon between 
the song and the video, please drop me a line
here at The Tartan.
In short, I was sadly disappointed in 
Asias inability to maintain the drive that 
characterized the first album. Many groups 
seem to get burned on their second album 
(The Knack, Boston, Rossington-Collins, 
etc.) The sophomore curse strikes again!
Barke uses dark purples and red and gnarls 
the brush strokes to make the painting 
hardly decipherable at first glance. On the 
next level of obscurity we see a man and a 
woman reclining with another man hold
ing a machete over their heads; the image 
triggers thoughts of violence and sexuality 
totally removed from the thoughts that the 
ride provokes. Here Barke catches us off 
guard by giving us the unexpected.
In the painting Child Support, a man is 
standing over a crib clenching his fist and 
holding his head with one hand. The tide 
suggests images that are positive, such as 
love and care. But the painting shows a man 
who is conflicted, angry and violent. But it is 
not an overt violence, or one that is easy to 
see or to portray. It is an inner violence that 
the viewer can identify with.
Warning Symbol, a dyptich, on one side 
looks like a cigarette advertisement from the 
late sixties; juxtaposed against it is a bundle 
tied with a rope, suggesting a dead body or
stolen cargo. Again it repeats the contradic
tion Barke uses of the placid next to the 
violent. There is also a strong sexual content 
in Barkes work.
Barkes men and women look like thirties 
or forties movie stills. In Rumors of Wars, 
the sense of the cinematic prevails; six pan
els, each with a different image, link 
together like frames in a film to produce a 
whole new image. The new image is frag
mented and metaphorical.
Barkes paintings are entities unto them
selves, filled with mystery and puzzlement. 
However, they are daringly well-executed. 
Barke has taken from the influence erf the 
80s artists such as David Salles figuradon 
and Erich Fischels subde blending of sex
ual content. Barkes paindngs follow the 
newest tradition of figure painting.
The exhibit will run through September 
16. Gallery hours are 11 to 4, Tuesday 
through Friday; noon to 4, Saturday; and 1 
to 4, Sunday.
Bisset's "Class doesn't show in film
By SUSAN BOSSI
Tartan Staffivriter
Class begins with the return of two 
seniors to a college prep school, Vernon 
Academy  quite a common occurrence. 
The two begin their year with the usual 
juvenile pranks, a round of par
ties, and the makings of a nor
mal friendship.
Yet, what happens in Class is 
far from routine  in fact, the plot becomes 
rather bizarre.
Jonathon, the not-so-weal thy preppy 
who is struggling to make it to Harvard, is 
persuaded by his roommate (Squire Ells
worth Burroughs IV) to travel to Chicago in 
search of an experienced woman in Bur
roughs favorite singles bar.
And so it goes. Boy meets . . . woman. 
Enter Jacqueline Bisset as Jonathons girl
friend. The two meet in the bar that Bur
roughs suggested and have their first sexual 
encounter in an outside elevator with glass 
doors.
Because of the age difference between 
Bisset and Jonathon (Andrew McCarthy), 
this scene is almost painful. However, the 
plot line is still believable at this point.
The story line does become stretched, 
however, when the roommates go to the 
Burroughs mansion for Christmas break.
The believability of this situation is shat
tered when Mr. Burroughs announces at the 
dinner table, Jonathon, I think you and I 
have something in common. Of course, the 
stolen glances of Jonathon and his best 
friends mother go unnoticed.
At this point, the plot becomes contrived, 
and too many questions are left unans
wered. First of all, why doesnt Burroughs 
even notice the coincidence that his mother 
and Jonathonss girlfriend have the same 
name, occupation, age, and physical des
cription? And why doesnt Mother Bur
roughs ever wonder who her son is living
with?
Credibility of the circumstances sur
rounding the affair is doubtful. Yet, if the 
affair was more credible, the fact that the two 
young men could overcome such an obsta
cle to hold their friendship together would 
be much stronger.
Overall, the plot has too many flaws to get 
the point of the film across to the audience 
whatever that point is. However, the perfor
mances of McCarthy and Rob Lowe as Bur
roughs were the only saving glory in this 
flick. These characters definitely oversha
dowed Bissets weak, aging character.
Sbapiro tries "Hay Fever"
Noel Cowards Hay Fever, one of the great 
light comedies of this century, will be the 
opening production of the Pittsburgh Pub
lic Theater Ninth Season. Artistic Director 
Larry Arrick and Managing Director Den
nis A- Babcock have also announced that 
Mel Shapiro, Head of the Drama Depart
ment, Carnegie-Mellon University, will 
make his Public Theater debut as director. 
Hay Fever will open on September 14,1983.
Mr. Shapiro, who describes Hay Fever as 
George S. Kaufman and Moss Hart with 
an English accent, has been at CamegieMellon since 1980. His extensive national 
theatrical background includes directing the 
New York production of Two Gentlemen of 
Verona, which he adapted with John 
Guare, with music by Galt McDermott. 
Two Gentlemen of Verona was the winner 
of both Tony and New York Drama Critics 
Awards, and Mr. Shapiro won the Obie and 
Drama Desk Awards for his direction of this 
production. Other New York credits include 
directing Mr. Guares Bosoms and Neglect 
in 1979 and House of Blue Leaies, which 
continued on pag* 14

---------------------------------------------------

*>
Page 14The TartanSeptember 6, 1983
Cruise's Risky Business" worth the dollars invested
By SUSAN PETRIE
Entertainment Editor
Merge adolescent zeal, parental wealth, 
manipulative buddies, and a cloud of bad 
luck with a Lake Forest high school setting, 
and youre in business. Risky Business, that 
is. And this summer flick, featl uring Outsider Tom Cruise, 
| gives the viewer more than a fair
- deal.
I must admit: I thought about devoting 
this entire review to the wonderfully Tom 
and Jerry-like lines whipped off primarily 
by a minor character, the mischief-making 
Miles. But, journalistic style does prevail, 
even in movie review, and I should stick to 
structure.
We are introduced to the guilt-ridden Joel 
Goodson, a high school senior so caught up 
in getting accepted to an Ivy League univer
sity that even his sexual fantasies dont go 
unclouded, as his parents are about to 
embark on a week-long hiatus and leave 
their conscientious son home alone. Before 
he resigns himself to quiet, uneventful
continued from page 13
won the 1971 New York Drama Critics 
Award. He also directed the Broadway pro
duction of Stop the World, I Want to Get 
Off with Sammy Davis Jr.
Hay Fever, which marks the first Noel 
Coward play to be produced at Pittsburgh 
Public Theater, previews from September 9 
through 13, opens on September 14, and 
runs through October 23. Christopher 
Durangs A History of the American Film, 
the second production, previews October 28- 
November 1, opens November 2, and closes 
on December 11. The third mainstage pro
duction is K2 by Patrick Meyers, previewing
solace in the house, Joel receiver, some 
freedom-carrying advice from good old 
Miles.
Soon it is rather obvious that one of the 
important concerns of Joels teenaged circle 
is the guys virginityor, erasing their vir
ginity as they would a wrong answer on an 
SAT score sheet. Therefore, Joel is imme
diately exposed (by Miles) to all the info 
available on telephoning for his own, per
sonal experiencein the privacy of your 
own home, Joel! Miles says.
After a frustrating try at masturbation, 
Joel finally does release some of his tight 
control and decides to have some fun with 
Lana, a blond call girl worth $300 a night. 
The fun ends, however, as his fathers 
Porsche sinks into Lake Michigan and our 
hero is left in even more debt than the morn
ing after Lana.
The film speeds at this point, and the 
audience becomes nervous as Joel collects 
more and more problems, which could 
hardly be cleared up realistically. Whether 
or not Joel survives his most monumental
December 30, opening on January 4, 1984, 
and closing on February 12. Ingmar Berg
mans Nora-Julie, which is the fourth PPT 
production next season, previews February 
17-21, opens February 22, and runs through 
April 1. Waiting for Godot by Samuel Beck
ett is the fifth play, previewing from April 
6-10, opening on April 11, and closing on 
May 20. The final production of the 1983- 
1984 Season will be Christopher Frys The 
Ladys Not For Burning, which previews 
May 25-29, opens on May 30, and closes on 
July 8, 1984.
For subscription information, call (412) 
321-9805.
feat of the week, a meeting between 
Lanas friends and Joels pals, is left until 
the very end. The suspenseful comedy is 
invigorating in this film, but can only be 
fully appreciated while walking out the 
door to the car.
In addition to the plot of Risky Business,
The Civic Arena will host musician Neil 
Young in concert Wednesday at 8 p.m. 
Tickets are on sale now.
Neil Young released his first solo album 
in January of 1969. At age 24, he had already 
seen whirlwind success and pop stardom 
with Buffalo Springfield. Young soon met 
the members of Crazy Horse, who became 
his backing band.
In late 1978, Young decided to embark orS 
a major tour. His powerful Rust Never 
Sleeps concerts featured Young and Crazy
Southern Man Neil Young will play the 
Civic Arena tomorrow at 8 p.m.
the music by Tangerine Dream is a strong 
aspect as well as the commanding acting*; 
performances of Cruise, de Momay and th# 
whole cast. This film is a classic in contem
porary comedy. Watch it and wonder what 
you used to think was high school adven
ture. . .
Horse, playing amid a huge-scale micro
phone and amplifiers. The purpose was to 
show that Young felt dwarfed by how big 
rock and roll business had become. Twcf 
new albums of material were released, Rust 
Never Sleeps and Live Rust, and the film of 
the complete concert, directed by Young, 
was enthusiastically received by critics and 
concert-goers alike. In 1979, Americas criti
cal tabloid The Village Voice named Young 
Artist of the Decade.
Young recently recorded a series of six 
songs accompanying himself on computer
ized synthesizers and other electronic instru^ j 
ments. After having completed these % 
compelling new tracks, Young called 
together several favorite musicians with 
whom he had worked before. The result
ing sessions, which took place in Hawaii, 
produced yet another new group of songs. 
This new material, combined with Youngs 
synthesizer-oriented music, or trans music 
as he calls it, comprises his latest album 
Trans, on Geffen Records.
Young also brought the same musician:*? j 
back to his Northern California home for 
two months of rehearsal and surprise perfor
mances at clubs around the area. With this 
band he is able to perform material from 
every point in his fifteen-year long career, 
from his first album to Trans.
Coward's "Hay Fever" at PPT
Neil Young to play Arena
PITTSBURGH
tURAi. ^
Thursday Skibo Lobby
September 7 11 am  2 pm
Representatives from the following 
cultural organizations will be present 
to help add culture to your everyday 
life.
Carnegie Institute Pittsburgh Center for the Arts
CMU Drama Department Pittsburgh Dance Council
Chamber Music Society Pittsburgh Opera
Janet Gillespie & Present Co. Pittsburgh Public Theater
New Pittsburgh Chamber Orchestra Pittsburgh Symphony
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre The Thread Connection

---------------------------------------------------

1  _______ Sports.
Tartan's Oracle Chico forte!Is future in AFC
By JEFFREY BERGMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
The 1982 NFL season had to godown as 
one of the most depressing five months for 
Comm. Rozelle and especially the fans. 
Fifty-seven days of watching Gene Upshaw 
on television in a three-piece suit complain
ing was no way to spend a fall. Anyway, 
thats in the past. So here go my 1983 
predictions.
AFC EAST
1) Miami Dolphins  Miami is probably 
the most disciplined team in the league and, 
barring injuries, should make it to the Super 
Bowl. The defense is still awesome, 
although they lost comerback Don McNeal 
for the season and linebacker Larry Gordon 
to a heart attack. The offense will be much 
improved due to the addition of back David 
Overstreet.
2) New York Jets  The Jets are again 
one of the most talented teams in the league 
and should qualify for a spot However, 
early season injuries to Lam Jones, Abdul 
Salaam, and Joe Fields should slow the start 
of the New Yorkers. Also watch All-Pros 
Freeman McNeil and Joe Klecko, who had 
knee surgery in the off-season.
3) New England Patriots  Coach Ron 
Meyer led his squad to a playoff last year 
with a 5-4 record, although he beat no one of 
quality. With Kenny Sims out with a broken 
leg, the Pats will be a .500 team at best.
4) Buffalo Bills  The talent from the 
playoff years is mostly still there, but the 
spirit is not. With All-Pro Joe Cribbs leav
ing after the season is over and the lousy
* ownership policy of Ralph Wilson, the fans 
and players have to lose confidence. Coach 
Stephenson is in for a rough first year.
5) Baltimore Colts  The defense is now 
a respectable unit, but their offense couldnt
score on the Plaid Curtain.
AFC CENTRAL
1) Pittsburgh Steelers  They are the best 
of what is the worst division in Pro football 
but should take the tide with a 9-7 record. 
The reason  an awesome defense. Even the 
loss of Jack Ham wont prevent the Steel 
Curtain from returning to its old form. The 
offense is sdll questionable with Cliff Stoudt 
replacing injured Terry Bradshaw at Q.B. 
and Calvin Sweeney at wide receiver.
2) Cleveland Browns  The Brownies were 
4-5 last year and should be about the same
this year. They still have no defensive line 
and have problems with the offensive one. If 
Brian Sipe returns to form as #1 Q.B., a 
division tide is possible.
3) Cincinatti Bengals  Trouble in river 
city with a capital T. Their two best players, 
Ross Browner and Pete Johnson got busted 
for cocaine use and will be out till the fifth 
game under a suspension. Two other key 
players, Dan Ross and Chris Collinsworth, 
are flying to the USFL after the season, 
which takes some spirit out of the club. 
Coach Gregg will have to perform miracles
to get this team into the playoffs.
4) Houston Oilers  This team is in such 
disarray, its disgusting. Ed Biles will be out 
of a job by the seventh game.
AFC WEST
1) San Diego Chargers  The question is, 
will this years Chargers have a defense? The 
answer will be a probable yes. Rookie Billy 
Ray Smith should help, but the secondary is 
the key area. Air Coryell will be in motion 
again as long as Capt. Fouts is healthy.
2) Seattle Seahawks  Sure, why not? 
They just missed making the tournament 
last year and have improved in many ways 
First, head coach Chuck Knox is a quality 
man. Second, draft choice Curt Warner is an 
outstanding all-around back. Third, the 
Hawks new defensive coach is the 
renowned Tom Cadin.
3) Los Angeles Raiders  L.A. had the 
best record in the conference last year, but 
this year Im predicting another court case 
which will take A1 Davis away from the 
team and bad seasons from aging Jim Plun
kett and Cliff Branch. The defense is the 
strength, led by madmen Matt Millen and 
Lyle Alzado.
4) Denver Broncos  John Elway, John 
Elway! Hes my hero. Every Bronco fan is 
banking on the brat from Stanford but what 
they dont realize is that the team was 2-7 in 
82 because of a ragged defense which will be 
without retired Randy Gradishar this year. 
It hasnt been improved that gready, and 
will lead Denver to 7 wins at best.
5) Kansas City Chiefs  K.C. is not a bad 
team, but their talent doesnt compare to the 
rest An injury-free year from Art Still and 
Mike Bell could turn things around.
Next week, the NFC.
CMU to run rampant
Gridders resurrect old offense
By JEFFREY BERGMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Teh 1982 CMU football season was high
lighted by exciting performances from Q.B. 
Bill Kiselick, wide receiver Mark LePosky, 
and linebackers Scott Bachik and Lee Ferketic. What wasnt so exciting was the 
teams record of 6-3 (4-3 in the Presidents 
Athletic Conference). Not bad for some 
teams, but for a perennial Division III 
power, its an off year.
So now the 1983 season approaches. What 
should Tartan fans expect from coach 
Chuck Klausings crew? Well, the big 
change will be the offense. Last year, Kisel
ick put on an aerial show that, at one time, 
put him on top of all Division III passers. 
However, this season junior Dave Zito is the 
#1 man. His strength is the run. In fact, Zito 
tore up over 100 yards as a freshman last year 
against Case Western.
Klausing realized this and, in the off sea
son, developed a new offense primarily 
based on the offense used by the Blue Hens 
of the University of Delaware, a Division 
I-AA power. It entails the use of three run
ning backs, one tight end, and one receiver, 
currendy a very rare set-up.
Klausing had the luxury to make the 
move because he has an awesome set of run
ning backs. The starring fullback in the 
three-back offense will be senior and captain 
Jim Morrison. The 6-1, 205 pounder from 
Jeanette has been overlooked, in his first 
three years here, and this might be the season 
where he proves his point. At left half will be 
senior Gerard Sansosti, who injured his 
knee on the first play of the first game last 
season and has recovered nicely. Right half 
will again be a senior, this time ex-fullback
Brad Huwar. There are quality reserves in 
Mike Garverick, T.D. Smith, and Victor 
Boland.
The big problem for CMU this year will 
without question be the offensive line. It 
looked to be strong because John Herold, 
Ross Jicomelli, Rich DiLucente, and Joe 
Glinka were all returning starters, and expe
rienced men like Phil Estep and Charles 
Feigle were to vie for the open spot.
Then tilings started happening. DiLu
cente injured his knee. As a result, he is out 
for the year. Feigle suffered a concussion and 
is out indefinitely. Glinka came to camp 
sick and is just starting to recover. That 
leaves Klausing only one option. Hell be 
starting sophomores Rob Cortazzo and Dan 
Gercak. Also freshman Ed Gallagher could 
see some action.
The receiving corps will be led by junior 
tight end Harley Carrol who had a fantastic 
first season last year. The wide outs will be 
unproven players Roger Roble and Dave 
Richards.
The strength of this years crew will 
undoubtedly be defense. A returning letterman will be at every position, and there will 
be only two Tartans who didnt start last 
year but saw much playing time. They are 
sophomores Brad Sherwin and Mike 
Paterchak.
The entire defensive line of Mike Holodnik, captain Joe Nardone, and Lee Andre 
will return and be a force to be reckoned 
with. Also at linebacker will be seniors Jerry 
Clarke and Mike ODonnel and junior Scott 
Bachik.
The secondary should again have its 
share of interceptions. Three-year-starter 
Jim Chrise will be at weak comerback with
Brian Zagorac at the other comer. Hard hit
ting Paul Scarmazzi will be the killer at 
strong safety.
Punting for CMU will be honorable men
tion All-American Mike OShip, while the 
placekicking should be fall into the hands of 
Rob Fleischman with Dave Mramour tak
ing the kickoffs.
Tartan Tattlers  The season opens with 
archrival Duquesne at South Stadium Sept.
10. Tickets are still available... CMUs first 
home game will be the following Saturday 
against Grove City. Other oppositions at 
home will be Hiram, W8cJ, and Case West
ern . . . The Tartans were chosen to finish 
fourth in a preseason poll which did not sit 
well with many players . . . going into the 
season, Klausing was the fifth all time colle
giate coach in winning pet., behind such 
greats like Joe Patemo and Tom Osborne.
photo by Steve Winawer
Last years second doubles, junior Laurie 
Arendas, returns in hopes of propelling the 
netters to another win.
Ferketic tackles $ 1500
By RIC MEDROW
Tartan Sports Editor
Jimmy Starr, former Tartan tight end, 
was killed four years ago in an automobile 
accident. However, every year at this time we 
are reminded of Starrs football and aca
demic excellence. For every year since 1980 a 
Tartan football player has received a $1500 
scholarship in Starrs name.
The recipient of this years award is Lee 
Ferketic. Ferketic has amply fulfilled the 
scholarship requirements as a student in 
Management Science and a player at line
backer. The 6' 1", 212-pound senior has 
tackled more Tartan opponents than any 
other CMU player in the past two years,
with 149 stops. Thats an average of over 
eight tackles every game during his sopho
more and junior years.
Financial need is not necessarily taken 
into account in the awarding of the Jimmy 
Starr Memorial Scholarship Award. How
ever, besides attending CMU, Ferketic holds 
down a full-time supervisory job with 
McKlean Trucking Company in order to 
support his family, including his wife Marylou and two-year-old son Christopher
"Im very proud that Lee is receiving this 
award because he has all the qualities that 
Jimmy Starr had, said CMU head coach 
Chuck Klausing. "Hes an overachiever in 
the classroom and on the football field.

---------------------------------------------------

AB Concerts 
and the 
Pitt Progrmn Council
present
THM LMGMNDARY 
BLUMS BAND
In Concert 
Sunday Sept. 11, 2 p.m. 
Flagstaff Hill  Schenley Park 
Rain location: CMU Gym
FRMM!

---------------------------------------------------

Funnies.
JOE FRESHMANby Mark Levine
MHEYRt NOT 60NNft mt 
p\f ft fRiSWf^N (SGWU "THIS 
YKR... NOTHING CAN GO
photbyyy TdPPtrpa diTPP 
tne ust nwtff to &o qkckTO CAHPUS...
M'U. SMftY IN MHt WOODSY 
THKT COfopOTfRU HfSltR
Q ft fRESriMKN
Smith Corona 
Typewriters
$195.00
Call Bookstore 
578-2966
/DON'M BE A COPY....BE AN ORIGINAL 
CREAME YOUR OWN FASHION WAVES
THE VAMP
ORIGINAL VINTAGE CLOTHING FROM THE 1890S TO THE I960 S 
234 SHADY AVENUE : SHADYSIDE  661-1844  MON - SAT -1-7
10% DISCOUNM WIMH AD DURING SEPM

---------------------------------------------------

Drink it up & 
keep the cup !
Dominos Pizza is giving away a free plastic cup and lid! Order a cola with your pizza and well give you something to remember us by. The colorful Dominos Pizza cup holds a generous 16 ounces and comes with its own lid. Made of durable plastic, it is dishwasher safe and reusable. Youll want to collect a dozen!
Take advantage of this special offer, good while
supplies last. No coupon necessary.
At Dominos Pizza we make only pizza., pizzas are our business...fast, free delivery is our specialty. Give us a call!
Fast, Free Delivery310 N. Craig St.Phone: 681-1700
Our drivers carry less than $10.00.Limited delivery area.
1981 Dominos Pizza, Inc.
0
(/>
OZ<
s
2 No y o a
Dominos Pizza Delivers.
introducing...
the Japanese vw lv/ (foo-tahn)
Featuring layer upon layer of 100% fancy blend cotton batting encased in heavy mattreu ticking. Available in 6 sizes ...crib to king...and in four styles: standard, extra thick, standard s ^ with foam core and extra thick with foam core. All with Jl^accompanying custom Futon furniture, coordinated covers and assorted pillows. jEg|oiyi
A uniquely 
versatile 
mattress 
... by day
...by night
TOEE DELIVERY^
exclusively at
THE LINEN CLOSET aWaenfoPPebe
Corner of Walnut Street and Maryland Avenue  412/362-8045 
112 N. Church Street, Boalsburg, PA 16827  814/466-7332
xsi s ^
sitilo
WRCTaSubw > AB
PRESENTS:
 Night at the lube"
Mb bours of continuous
music videos)
Its FRMM!
Ties.
6K.I0fW
Hunt /Multipurpose Room
(Enter from Frew St.)l fvin<ie<l by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

nAnnouncements.
:lubs
J j|j Rugby Club is organizing for 83 fall seaJ i. No experience necessary. Contact Scott Patn (682-9455) for more info. Practices Tues. 
Fri. 4:30 p.m. Flagstaff hill (behind Baker 
I til). All students welcome.
Classifieds
M ndhi, Jedi, Diner, Octopussy, Rocky, Exca ur, Annie Hall, Conan, Trading Places, 48 
v s.( Cuckoos Nest, Flashdance, Road Warriors,
 localypse Now, Officer 8c A Gendeman, All 
i iat Jazz, etc. Original movie posters for sale. 
Thousands of tides available. We specialize in
sheets (27"x41" posters). For more informan write: Rogers Movie Memories Box 19208 
I ttsburgh, PA 15273. Be sure to include your 
ajdress, telephone number, and a list of posters 
J it you are interested in purchasing.
AlODELS WANTED for Philip Pelusi design 
|im. For avant-garde/new wave hair designs 
more information contact Debbe at 261-6150 
nesday through Friday.
For I
Wi
Moving? Have been moving students since 1977! 
Call The Second Mile Light Hauling. Ask for 
Vince 231-2766.
Are you concerned about the nuclear arms race? 
Worried about El Salvador becoming another 
Viet Nam? Upset by registration for the draft? 
Then come to the school years first meeting of 
the CMU Peace Alliance, this Thursday (Sep
tember 8) at 7:30 pm in Skibo room 12. We will 
discuss what sorts of educational and advocacy 
work we can do this year. If you cant come and 
would like information, contact Dan Rosenblum 
at x2185 or Andy Hisgen at x3053.
Buy your subscription today to the Pittsburgh 
Ballet Theatre 1983-84 exciting season  Special 
low prices. 281-0360
Director Trudy Scott is seeking actors and pup
peteers for Boyce Campus Theatres up-coming 
multi-media presentation of Thornton Wilders 
The Skin of Our Teeth. Production dates are 
October 18-22.
Auditions will be held today at 7:00 p.m. and 
tomorrow at 3:30 p.m. in the Boyce Campus 
Theatre, Community College of Allegheny 
County in Monroeville. For more information, 
call Marge Jurmann, 371-8651 or 733-4319.
CUSTOM BUILT LOFT-BEDS  Call Rikki 
at 521-8392 or leave your name and phone 
number in the AB Tech mailbox (Skibo).
Help Wanted-Waitress-Experience preferred. 
Apply in person-Panther Hollow Inn--4611 
Forbes.
BARGAIN! childs quality ten-speed bicycle for 
sale $75. Won in contest and never used. Susan 
683-9192. Leave message.
Childcare. Is your child lost in a large nursery 
school environment5 Experienced woman pro
vides quality care, full and part-time, for your 
toddlers in Sq. Hill home, near CMU and Pitt. 
Pre-school activities, instruction and meals. 
Excellent references 683-2277.
To Joe  Thanks very much for saving this 
issue. Your Nitric Treatment was great. 
Thanks very much  Steve
FLYING FINGERS word processing. Business 
or academic. Papers, resumes, cover letters, etc. 
Student rates available. Erika Van Sickel 241- 
1338.
official
The Student Dormitory Council will hold its 
first meeting tomorrow at 7:00 in the Wherret 
Room. All are invited.
SHARETHECOSTOF
LIYMG.
GIVE TO THE 
AMERICAN 
CANCER SOCIETY.
This space contributed as a public service
_ Tired of writing letters but still want to keep your parents 
^ informed?
Get a Tartan subscription!
Only $10 a semester.
Send my parents a subscription for
? one semester ? two semesters
mailing & name 
billing address address
j Send to The Tartan*, Box 17, Schenley Park, Pgh or bring to I 
Skibo 50.
PREGNANT? Call AMA 
Let's talk about your options.
HOTUNE; (412) 731-2420 
PREGNANCY TESTING: 391-4706 
906 Penn Avenue, Downtown 
8-10 a.m. W; 11 a.m.-1 p.m. 
MTTFS 
Free and confidential informa
tion, counseling, pregnancy 
testing and related services.
ALMERNAMIVES MO ABORMION 
INC
a non-profit organization
FURNISHED & 
UNFURNISHED 
APARTMENTS
3 Different Locations 
Intercom, Total Security 
Within walking distance
A.R. Building Company 
361 -5792
wmmmmm order now and save j
Wed. & Mburs.
DAME: _ September 7 & 8 MIMEl 10 AM to 4 PM
PLACE: BAKER HALL$15 Deposit
LIMIME 
MIME OFFER!9
HERFF JONEScvonti tu edpidanti etg6di*
(name)
IS ENTITLED TO ONE 
FREE JAZZ OR MODERN 
DANCE CLASS
LIMIT ONE COUPON PER 
CUSTOMER
(expires 10/30/83)
PANMHER HOLLOW TM
NOW OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 
KIMCHEN OPEN 11 A.M.
MUESDAY 1MIGHM - CMU NIGHM
DRAFM BEER  HOUSE DRINKS 
AM A DISCOUNM PRICE 
10% OFF ON FOOD W/CMU I.D.
PROPER I.D. REQUIRED 682-9999

---------------------------------------------------

yyElRv m.gi fh22 DELIVERY FAST - DEI IVLrtY FASI rtL .'LIVERY \S - DELIVERY FACT DELIVtpIV 'rREE Dr r ,\EE DELlVERi t -1?REE' ~oi r,.^L DELIVERY fjT. Fr jwliVERY FAST FREE DEI " jT ' _ OELIVERY FAST FREF 'FAF FREE DELIVERY FAST - AST FREE DEL'""Y FAST FREE DEi. ' "d m.Ni mRll wlsA yRv m.Ni mRll O5(Y FAST FREF ERY FAST Fr RY FAST Fr '-RY FAST Y FAST F ( i FAS'.Y AST S F.
'ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST F> VERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST F HY FAST FREE DELIVERY'FA'iT FF VERY FAST FREE DELIVE'P' FAST FREE DELIVEr "PY FAST FREE DELI'.
1 r. ST CREE OELiVF 1 \S' FREt DELI'
Y
Ke5F d uiY F M 'RY 2W v FAS! iY FAS FAST F Y FAST I R rAST mRP<EK FAST. FREE DELIVEHY RY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FRfct 'ERY * A FREE DELIVERY FAST. FRt^P'-FAb-: EDI 'AST FREED1 FAS, (EEC-. ni AST FFict' ST i-'REE DELIVtPY FAST FREE rAST CREE DELIVERY FAST. FRF > FAST FPhE DELIVERY FAST FRE -RY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAS,. Fi ' :RY FAST F'" r F1 IVERY FAST FPEc Ji ' > ERY FA E DELIVERY FAST FRE  "'ELI'RY Fi' 1ELIVERY FA FREE CEL-c'ER' DELIVERY ,oT FREE GELIVRY t ' rNi mRll DlsElERY , . wRY FAST FRr> JELI\RY FAST FHct CfPElRv FAST FRf MlsEl
FREE Del' cP' -ST FREE u^.'VERY F/ST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVF'FREE r cL' cRY 2WUa FRF<- DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELiVt EE DcL'VERY FAST FREt PF9 cRY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERS ' ,r  BePT1eh3 2WUa 2hee BePj*ydR3 2WUa 2hee BePT1eh3 2WUa 2hee Be'1e2T 4 dm ElRv 2WUa FREE OEuiVERY FAST FRF DELIVERY FAST FREE OELIVERY F  ' .IVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST CPEE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY .>y FAST FREE DELIVER FAST FF ~E DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAi l>v FAST FREE DELIVER* "'ST F> 'E DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY Fm cAST FREE DELIVERY fAS RE. LELIVERY.FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST ST. FREE DELIVERY FAS 'PE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAS FREE DELIVERY FAST FF E ~ f .IVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST 1 ' EE OELIVERY FAST F,, ic UVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST " DE'JVERY FAST FRE DELIVERY FAST FR "? 'VERY FAST. FREr IVERY FAST FREh3 mWUa 2hee P'ERY FAST FRE (Y FAST FREE RY FAST FRE ' FAST FREE >Y FAST FRE FAST FREE 1 FAST. FRE . .-AST. FREE D.. 1 FAST free ! AST FREf D i FAST FR E SI FR? DW vr 22yee Sa 2h5e wLjT REE 7. <cE D S REE T EE r Vi REE T t iEE C/E t ST FREE C 1Y FAST FREE DE LiVERY FAST. FREF. D<.LIVERY FAST FR '"E DELIVERY
m
< ef rIVEF .I VE"E *' iEL E D.E L rF I ,."L F SE E iE DL i\ 'REE D- 'EE DELI f (EE DELI c  DELIVE
CRY 
v Fa (Y Fc. -AST.F 'Ao ' FRFE DELIVE ' FASTv .N TdRlP DELIVERY FPctRd FWyd T FRE DELIVERS . 'Qcv m.Ni mRll wlsElRdd 2WN L .^Y FAST F REE DELIVER'. '"c _,iY FAST. FRtE DELIVERY FAST *->-' _.t.ElRv m.Ni mRll wlPEgIv m.Niy mRmdls klRv m.Niy mRll wlsElRv 'rgy.IVERY FAST FREE DEI IVERY ,
Dominos
Pizza
Delivers!
DELIVERY rif FHLw hi IVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST F, l. DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAbT F^FE DELIVE1-. rREE n' .IV' Y FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FASrREr ~ST f .-AST '
;Fii FA'.RY FAST
ytRY FAST FREE DFLIVERY FAST ^F.' IVERY FAST FREE ELIVERY F>'RY TAST FREE ' . Y FAST. FRF AST FRF
EF>  F \ST FRFE OE* IVrR'' DEL1 DELIV E CF' -
VERY FAST. Fr.. __vcRY FAST:RY FAST. FREE DELIVERY F'VL' ^T.ppccn- HR /ER >y 
IVERY F:LIVERYIVERY ILIVER-VERYJVEFVER-JVE/EFIVt'ERIVE ' 1 /ER..E Dl FREt-*S1.JVER> FAI VERY FAST FREE D LIVERY FAST FREr IVERY FAST FREE LIVERY FAST FF LIVERY FAST. FF.' JELIVERY FAS'i. r,.^_ FLIVERYF''
jtPy FAST FRl. .-iY .'-RY FAST. FREE DELIVr >Y F^ST FREE DELIVEr.-R 3T FREE DFLIVER.' ,Y " . E DuLI rRY c,E' *i RN FF * c
.IV I
r" 1i\.i J.r . lJELiVI . IOELIVERY FAS'c n- -^YFAO' E
* ST r -< LRCt. )t "'F.L
A hot delicious pizza is 
just a phone call and less 
than 30 minutes away! 
You never have to leave 
the comfort of home.
Best of all... delivery is 
always free!
You can trust Dominos 
Pizza for a top quality 
nutritious meal and fast, 
friendly service.
Our drivers carry less than
$10.00. Limited delivery area 1981 Dominos Pizza. Inc.
Fast, Free Delivery
310 N. Craig St.
Phone: 681-1700
Hours:
11 am-2 am Suru-Thurs 
11 am - 3am Fri. & Sat.
/ERY 
,CPY FA>1.
'mLEF<-RtFn./ll OPy'FE DELIVER 
^LI'/ERY FA^
FA ^RY I ERY F .LIVE' LIVE1*
-LIVERY VERY I c. ^LIVERY ^E DELIVERY F REE DELIVERY 1EE DF IV'RY r FRrF O t VER ..FRE- JL IVERN c AST F,.Niy mcP
JLz *- 1 -i, *E DtL.VER'
.'ERY FAST FREE DE' - cAcr FREF PE' :-AST  FZ 
iY FAS____-.ERY FA^'G 2hee DELIVERY tE r=_ ,E3N FAS CREE DF' IVERv ' FAST F' 5f zlsEydDELIVE -.1 REE DEI 'E DE> =AST FREE DEL1'-E DELIVERY FAST FREF,nY FAST (Y FAS" ^ERY F VERY F'JE LIVER' JELIVER'
V FAST..C FAST F' . -Ll\RY FAS - .DEI RY FAST., ^ - vELI'ElRv m.Niy mRll wls T7lmiv FAST ftREE DELIV .LIVERY FAST. I REE DEL ' LIVERY FAST FREE DEL'V'. DELIVERY FAST. FREE DEL.. DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVc -IEE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELi'.rRY REE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DEL1' IRV .r. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DEI '. r FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DF AST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE AST, FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST, FRF '/ERY FAST. FREI-RY FAST FREE i_ tL.VEriY _ * 'ST FREE DELIVERY VST FREF nei "
OELIVERY r Ab I . FREE DFLIVEPY LIVEP'ELI
FoiF DcLIV rAST. rPF-D
(0
O
Z<
B
S N ON0 a.
r r T.cc Dct-ivcn i rASI 
F/-\ST FRFC nei ivfry f> FAST 
ST F^'F DELIVERY 'VEiY
MlFy y dtE L'rL P i-t.l/EF
VE .Lf .IVI V rl :
-LIV . . t1 . 0 LI'v* c r'rl F ncL"' tt  'Li V d / El2 k  . LIVE. I . - V" IVERY .; LIVERY t ' , .IVERY FAS.. ELIVERY FASLIVERY 'iC''ajHaHHHaHa|a|a|a|HaaHBaHaaHaHlELIVERYFA^ LlVERY FAS
E. . E DELIV(Y Ta r DELIVFERYFAo (EE DE'IY FAST Fhc ifEE DE'lRv m.Nij mRlP ^r, FREE?Y FAST FREE DEL.. 31 FREE -rERY FAST. FREE DELIVth. . .cRY FAST FP 3IY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FRr -rERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST cIY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. 'ERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FA' ifY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAr cERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY riY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY 'lRv m.Ni mRll wlsElRv m.Ni mRll wlsEld M/IY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVEF - * ,TERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DEL1 * * - iY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELI' ' r > tERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE D .Er. . .ViY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE OF /ERY.,.* . r iERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREF XlVe.fi .' \ ~r> z , - FiY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE PElmT3 F*sr. -''cc rERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FRE 'ELIVcfi ' ' .-.~T *_t . :TiY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE UVERY FS . ' n." . . . .tRY  AM . >c .. ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREt 'LIVERY FAST FREr '.e.^lVcr(Y FAST F et P .iY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DEL  -OY FAST. FREr. r .^IVERY FAS'! FREE DE*ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELr.".'Y FAST rw . - r FAST r'iY FAST, FREE DELIVERY FAST, FREE DELIVEFi rNi ' rlr c Dc^. -ERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY r jT eiEE wlPElry cA'jT, f ntt Utt
Y FA.ST Y r
iY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FA iY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAS ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY F/ iY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAi ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY AST. FREE DELIVERY F; iY FAST FREE DELIVER TSl rREE DELIVERY FA? ERY FAST FREE DtLIVT F V Dn.lVERY FiY FAST FRFf DELVFR. . J- . . C^BYFAeryfast,ff.ee G. i. : tniY FAST fl Ft OEl . ..'FAERY FAST I FEE r . ' V !v *iY FAST i Ri..FF', -AERY FAST Pt  'trAST FREE U _ . A~"f Flit- Fd VPy _
PEI.IVEriY FAST F'
iY FAST Fr,t_ERY FAST FRE? r*tL,.. ' uTY FAST FREE OEUVt R < cV,ERY FAST FREE DEL'VCrtYF ST..  r.iY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAbT cF.t: i. rERY FAST FREE DELIVER '; s S"- iY FAST FREE DELIVERY Fhi 1 -ERY FAST FFiEE DELIVERY FA  . - . ' iY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST F  .. iERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. F.  - ' SiY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREt  ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREt Y FAST FFiEE DELIVERY FAST FREE DE.ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DE.Y FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVc ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIV. iY FAST FREE OELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY ERY FAST FREE E)ELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVER'' Y FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE OF""' *ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST Fr iY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAC*ERY FAST FREE DELI'" iY FAST FREF ERY FA**Y "
AT
FASA..T,*S3 T, AS'i
FPCE Dt1 IVtHY rt^ FAST -Y FA FAST,' FAST, utLlVtAST FREE DEI 9Y2WUaj 2hee r-, 9hST. FREE rELI'"^'*ST FRF T. FREE 5T. FREt FREE Dt,. .tP'FREE DEI iEE DELI REE DEL E DELIVt E DELiVt OELIVERY F/ DELIVERY A- LIVERY F.LIVERY F ERY FAS.'ERY FAST I Y FAST FF ->Y FAST F 'AST FRE
 ' t -R 'iY F.: - VEPY FERYF-.ulVbUYJ iVEFY r --ELI'/FhY LIV'T. -l'. c DE M1'* '-T - DEL"'< *t 'E DO - ' ,E DrL..REE rr|-, -REE C-t* . f. FREE v - '. FREE DES. r. AST. FREE Dt- - ST. FREE DELIV, .FAST FREE DELiVt i - 'FAST. FREE DELIVERY ' - _RY FAST FREE DELIVER. ' . ._:RY FAST FREE DELIVERY FA '. - * .* .IVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY F . " - . '  .-E .IVERY FAST, FREE DELIVERY FAS . ' T FP DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAS .r>^>T FP DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FF r ' 'RY FACT E DELIVERY FAST, FREE DELIVERY FAST, FP! ,'c  .EE DELIVERY FAST, FREE DELIVERY FAST, FREE rASr FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE OELIVERY FAST FREt . ''Y FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST, FREE DLiY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE Dt. . 'AST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVc AST FREE DELIVEPY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELI V. iST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVEF. t FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVEI . T FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY F T. FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY iEE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVEP FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FRtE DF' > .REE DELIVERY FAST, FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE r - -"'EE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST r DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAC~ . _ DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVEP' ncF r'cLIVERY FAST FREE DELIVF'IVERY FAST FREE DEERY FAST, FREE DF 'ERY FAST FRE'Y FAST FRF iY FAST r  FA 
JELIVERY FA "LIVERY FASS OELIVERY FA" .LIVERY FAS'l DELIVERY FAB . LIVERY FAS* DELIVERY FA LIVERY FAS, DELIVERY FAl  HL IVERY FAS DELIVERY FA* ELIVERY FAS ' DELIVERY Fbm /ELIVERY FAS DELIVERY FA LIVERY FAS* ' IVERY Rv
51
$1.00 off any 
16 large pizza 
One coupon per pizza 
Expires: 9/17/83
Fast, Free Delivery
310 N. Craig St.
Phone: 681-1700
1S**T E? LAsF*R?eT  J>'ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FA.
'FRY FART FRFF HFI IVFRY FART FRFF HFl IVFPV F___________
FAb
FA'
\t\ '  At'
' T H ^L.R...
FPI. Fr
Freecups!
T.FFFA. (E FAi -R.'T EE >T.. iEt 'Ri * Dt CR ' P.CE 'CL '.Ei Ofc, O'.ft.E D- Lt rREE DEL v/E .ciY FAST FREE 0JP VI ^cLtVERY FAST FREE OELIV. RV  ^ . rHEE OELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVER'Ni FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVER F YtFiY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVEF' '  DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAS rREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY At .ar FREE OELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREt DELIVERY FA' T ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE OELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FA^j iY FAST FREE OEL VERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FR ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE OELIVERY FAS r
FRFF 0;..AS* . "LsSP' tFtnf i<SF< ' .. FAtRtF r IVF2hTF uS d
.VF 31/El A.C .1 *ST-AS" FV-; OF FASTT ' Kr.t C ' 'AST. FT '.F-Oc ,<Y FASK_r '<f 1 .^fi FAST f.r- 'Y FA*1 O)-; r-n 2W:h*. .. . A * f r OTV*Ert YM- oi-if .j>ELI.FRf FAST FREE D 'ELIVERY FAST FF.EE l\"ERY FAST FRE,: t iY FA5(VERY FAST FR.;r ERY F-RY FAST FREE w . RY F* "RY FAST FREE DELIVEF F c . Y FAST FREE DELIVERY F r *v FAST free DELIVERY . w AST FREE DELIVERY F/. t -AST FREE DELIVERY'T FREE DELIVERY F
. . FREE ...FREEDE.,r FAST. FREE DE -..rlY FAST FREE DELIV I, cLIVERY FAST. FREE DELIV...JELIVERY FAST, FREE DELIVERS HEE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVER REE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FA. jT. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY F, r t . *. ' 'oT FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DEl'VERY FASTF. . , FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAS. r. > <" ,Y FAST FREE OELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST m2t'-^IVERY FAST, FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST Fi JELIVERY 2WUaj 2hee BePT1eh3 2WUaj 2hee BePT1eh3 2WUa FREt -.E DELIVERY 2WUay mRll wlsElRv 2WUa mRll DlsElRv m.Ni mRlP , OEl FRY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE Ot ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE wPY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIV RY FAST FREE OELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELkY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE OELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVE* -:"Y F 'T FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVEK
Order a Pepsi with your 
pizza and keep the free 
16 oz. cup and lid 
Cups are reusable and 
dishwasher safe. No 
coupon necessary. 
While supply lasts!
Fast, Free Delivery
310 N. Craig St.
Phone: 681-1700
^ 1Y I JFASljY FAIFASf 3 r*FASI|Y FAI AS'!
IEE D E DE REE 1
FF.e I
ST FREE OELIVERY FREE OELIVERY FAST FRl FREE DELIVERY FAST F IEE DELIVERY FAST FR IEE DELIVERY FAST F )DELIVERY FAST FREE L/fc ' DELIVERY FAS'f FREE C "LIVERY FAST FREE DE ELIVERY FAST FREE D VERY FAST FREE OELIV^nYf VERY FAST FREE DELIVERY
EE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE OELIVERY F REE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY F E OELIVERY FAST FREE OELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAS IEE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAi, l; ' IVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE OELIVERY FAST. I t -LIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST .; i IVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FRl III -LIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FR t.l I FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE F E IY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FRFF FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVEPY FAST FRFF HI tv FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FRFF rn CREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DEL,Y FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FRF r on .VERY FAST FREE OELIVERY FAST FR, ,
