FEATURES................Page 17
Ticketing in the School Zone and the 
Association of Collegiate Entrepreneurs
SPORTS.....................Page 24
Director of Athletics J im Banner resigns 
and NCAA tournament previewe Tartan
82, Issue 20 Carnegie Mellon University March 15,1988
photo by Andy Gillespie
The pledges and brothers of Delta Upsilon fraternity took first place in Greek Sing with their rendition of Big River. Full cover
age of Fridays Greek Sing at Carnegie Hall begins on page 9.
*SEI budget cut 
prompts visit 
of Sen. Specter
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
 Tartan News Editor
The Reagan Administrations proposed fis
cal year 1989 military budget would cut the 
Software Engineering Institutes (SEI) budget 
from $18.79 million to $10.3 million. In an 
effort to reverse the cut, Senator Arlan Spec
ter, R-Pa., visited the SEI March 8 to gather in
formation about the research conducted there.
If Congress approves the budget, all research 
programs at the SEI, located on Fifth Avenue, 
will be cut back. Particularly affected will be 
technology transfer, the sharing of research 
advances with industry, which is crucial to the 
Universitys plans to attract the software in
dustry to Pittsburgh.
Specter, however, emphasized the need for 
increased productivity in software production. 
President Richard Cyert, who toured the SEI 
m with Specter, explained how research there 
would help decrease the cost of software.
Vincent Eirini, who was arrested at the SEIs 
dedication last year, contrasted Specters 
statement saying, I wish Specter would have 
flown here because of the homeless and unem
ployed... for jobs and for justice.
continued on page 3
Mellon Institute 
plagued with 
suspicious fires
By JONATHAN LEVY
Tartan Staff* l iter 
Two suspicious fires in five days have 
raised concerns about safety and secu
rity at Mellon Institute.
Security reported that there is no evi
dence indicating arson but it is investi
gating because there have been several 
suspicious fires in Mellon Institute in 
the last year, including one on the first 
floor December 30. The city is provid
ing arson specialists to assist in the in
vestigation.
One fire occurred Monday, February 
29, in room 529, an office shared by 
chemistry graduate students Mark Lisicki and Rajesh Shukla.
Lisicki left the office at 4 pm Monday. 
Shukla remained with a visitor until 8 
pm. At about 11:55 pm Professor James 
Williams was in his sixth floor office 
and smelled smoke coming from the 
fifth floor. He called Carnegie Mellon 
Security and then went dow n to the fifth 
floor to investigate. Security notified the 
Pittsburgh fire department.
Security Chief James LaPaglia said 
that the smoke was very dense when the 
firemen arrived: they were forced to use 
oxygen masks while battling the blaze. 
However, the fire was extinguished 
quickly.
Evidence from a Nuclear Magnetic 
Resonance Spectrometer in room 533 
indicated that the temperature in the area 
rose at 9:30 pm, yet the fire alarm did not
continued on page 3
Measles
Health Center vaccinates Donner Hall residents
Even if you were exposed to the measles virus 
by one of the two suspected carriers you would 
be safe if you got immunized by last Thursday. 
No one who has been exposed to the virus from 
one of these two students has entered the stage 
when measles becomes active yet because it 
takes two weeks to incubate in your body.
According to an information pamphlet on 
measles distributed by the Allegheny Health 
Department, measles is the most serious of the 
common childhood diseases. The risk of get
ting the disease decreases with age, but it is not 
just a childhood disease.
The first symptoms of measles a person will 
usually suffer are a high fever, runny nose, 
body aches, and fatigue. The last symptom to 
arise is usually a rash. Barkin advises that if 
you develop the previous symptoms, espe
cially the rash, call the Health Center immedi
ately. But be sure to call before coming into the 
Health Center to reduce the risk of infecting 
others.
Since the test for measles takes ten days for 
results, the Health Center will not know until 
sometime late this week whether or not the two 
suspected students had actual cases of 
measles. But as Barkin told residents of Donner Hall in a discussion last Wednesday night, 
we can't wait for the test results. We must 
immunize everyone now. It's safer that way, 
and it's free. Otherwise it will be too late and 
there may be a bigger wave of outbreaks.
There have recently been two confirmed 
cases at the University of Pittsburgh, which 
has given the Health Center reason to be on the 
lookout for additional cases.
The vaccine for measles has no side effects. 
Also, you can only get measles once. If you do 
come down with measles you will have to be 
isolated for five days after you develop a rash.
By CHRIS YOUNG
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Two residents of Donner Hall were diag
nosed by the Student Health Center on the 
weekend of March 5 with symptoms similar to 
those of measles. Consequently, all residents 
of Donner were highly recommended to re
ceive immunization shots Thursday in case the 
two suspected cases are confirmed to have 
measles.
Following the diagnosis at Carnegie 
Mellons Health Center, an expert from 
Childrens Hospital checked the two students 
and said that although they had most of the
classic symptoms of measles, he could not 
confirm that they were infected.
Anita Barkin, Director of the Health Center, 
noted that the situation is worrisome because 
both cases came out of Donner. Measles is a 
highly contagious disease. Its virus is an 
airborne type and can remain in a room for up 
to 75 minutes after the carrier leaves the room. 
Sometimes measles involves a risk of compli
cations which are serious.
At present, Donner Hall is the only dorm 
with which the Health Center is concerned. 
According to Barkin, the Health Centers 
policy is to try to err on the side of caution....
photo by Chris Cox
The WPXI-TV hot air balloon took off from Tech Field on Saturday as part of a 
promotion. Channel 11 filmed a segment of the commercial in Donner Hall.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanMarch 15,1988
World 
NewsxivcrVI'
i Israel refuses to accept 
Mideast peace plan
( JERUSALEM (AP)  The divided govern
ment of Israel Thursday refused to endorse a 
U.S. plan designed to end more than three 
months of violence in the Israeli-occupied 
lands.
Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir successfully 
defeated attempts by the left-of-center Labor 
Party to force a vote in the 10-member inner 
Cabinet on a peace plan offered by U.S. Secre
tary of State George P. Shultz.
Foreign Minister Shimon Peres, who has 
accepted the Shultz plan, attacked Shamirs 
refusal in a speech in Parliament.
"We might miss this historic opportunity, 
and we won't have an answer, not for our 
generation and not for those to come, as to why 
we became afraid of peace, said Peres, leader 
of the Labor Party. Why did we reject the 
outstretched hand because of imaginary 
fears?
Meanwhile, hospital officials said soldiers 
killed one Arab and wounded 10.
Palestinians staged a general strike in obser
vance of another martyrs' day to honor the 
Arabs killed since the anti-occupation unrest 
began Dec. 8. UN figures put the death toll at 
83.
Israeli troops today shot and killed Moham
med Ochman Sarris, 22, during clashes in the 
West Bank village of Silwad, 10 miles north
east of Ramallah, Israel radio and Ramallah 
Hospital officials said.
Afghanistan will not 
reject U.S., Soviet aid
GENEVA (AP)The Soviet-backed Kabul 
government in Afghanistan last Wednesday 
rejected Washingtons demand that a sym
metrical cessation of U.S. and Soviet military 
aid must be part of an Afghan settlement.
Afghan foreign minister Abdul Wakil 
charged that the United States was trying to 
introduce a new issue at a time when the sixyear-old Afghanistan peace talks were hoped
Correction:
The March 8 issue of The Tartan incor
rectly stated the results of Hunt 
Librarys capital campaign. The $7.3 
million raised in the campaign includes 
$6.3 million for the Hunt Institute for 
Botanical Documentation.
to near a conclusion. The same approach, he 
said, was used by Pakistan by insisting that the 
formation of an interim government be linked 
with a settlement.
Wakil said, Afganistan has always receiv 
Soviet assistance and will continue to receive 
it even after the withdrawal of the Soviet 
troops. But he did not specify what kind of 
aid.
He said the Afghan side was determined to 
push for a speedy conclusion, making plain it 
was not setting a deadline after which it would 
leave the Geneva talks.
Contras back out of 
Nicaraguan peace talks
MANAGUA, Nicaragua (AP)  Contra 
leader Adolfo Calero said the rebels would not 
attend cease-fire negotiations the Sandinista 
government had scheduled for last Wednes
day in Nicaragua.
Calero said in a telephone interview from 
Miami that government officials talked to the 
rebel leaders last Monday at the last minute 
to tell them that they were ready for a meet
ing.
Apparently what the Sandinista govern
ment wants is a unilateral show..., he said. 
We are not willing to attend a unilateral 
meeting set up by the Sandinistas.
Three days of talks were held at the frontier 
post of Sapoa, about 90 miles from the capital 
of Managua along the southern border with 
Costa Rica.
Soviet hijackers killed 
while fleeing U.S.S.R.
MOSCOW (AP)  The Tass news agency 
reported Wednesday that armed criminals 
tried to hijack an Aeroflot passenger jet and 
flee the country, and that a flight attendant, 
three passengers, and most of the armed hi
jackers were killed.
Most of the criminals were killed, the others 
were captured and will face trial, Tass re
ported. An unspecified number of passengers 
were injured and given medical assistance on 
the spot.
The news agency said the TU-154, which is 
capable of carrying up to 168 passengers, was 
en route from Irkutsk to Leningrad with a stop 
in the Ural Mountains city of Kurgan.
China joins support of 
arms embargo to Iran
WASHINGTON (AP)  China pledged 
support for a worldwide arms embargo against 
Iran and has assured the Reagan administra
tion it is not selling Silkworm missiles to 
Tehran, the White House said last Tuesday.
The twin developments put new pressure on
AIESEC - Pittsburgh
PRESENTS
AFRICA : Business and Culture
Speakers include: 
-Charles Adu-Appeagyei trainee from Ghana at 
Buck-Consultant Actuaries 
-Joseph Baoteng trainee at Xerox in Los Angeles 
-Sean McCaffrey Vice President of Rehabilitation 
Management Services Inc. 
WEDNESDAY MARCH 16 
6:30 pm in SKEBO room 13 
Call x3515 for further information
Iran to join Iraq in accepting a cease-fire reso
lution to end their seven-year-old war in the 
Persian Gulf.
The embargo endorsement was made by 
Chinese Foreign Minister Wu Xueqian during 
a 40-minute meeting with President Reagan in 
the Oval Office.
China is perhaps Irans largest arms supplier, 
selling an estimated $1 billion worth of weap
ons last year.
The United States has been seeking a com
mitment from China not to veto a U.N. Secu
rity Council resolution for an arms embargo 
against Iran, a companion measure to the 
cease-fire resolution adopted by the Security 
Council last July.
Congress demands the 
ouster of Noriega
WASHINGTON (AP)  The House of 
Representatives Thursday overwhelmingly 
demanded the ouster of Panamanian strong
man Manuel Antonio Noriega and urged 
President Reagan to impose strong sanctions 
to encourage restoration of civilian rule in 
Panama.
The roll call vote on the anti-Noriega resolu
tion passed 367 to 2. During heated discussion 
the Panamanian military ruler was denounced 
in a long floor debate as a gunrunning thug 
and one of the most ruthless tyrants of our 
time.
The resolution was sponsored chiefly by 
Rep. Dan Mica, D-Fla. He later said the House 
is deeply concerned about the deterioration 
of United States-Panamanian relations and 
calls on Noriega to comply with President Eric 
Arturo Delvalles order dismissing him as 
commander of the Panamanian defense 
forces.
The overwhelmingly successful resolution 
also calls on President Reagan to consider se
riously the range of additional economic and 
political sanctions available to the United 
States that could be used to encourage the re
establishment of civilian authority in Pan
ama. '
White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater 
also said Wednesday while at a celebration in 
South Bend, Indiana that the Reagan admini
stration is still considering a number of options 
with regard to Panama, in addition to those 
actions taken in the court such as the freezing 
of assets.
But, he said no decision has been made re
garding further actions against Panama, and he 
declined to predict when a decision might 
come.
Two Army helicopters  
collide over Kentucky
FORT CAMPBELL, Ky. (AP)  Two mili
tary helicopters collided during a night train
ing mission, plunging 800 feet and killing up 
to 17 servicemen, the Army said Wednesday.
The collision of the U-H 60 Blackhawk heli
copters occurred about 9:45 pm CST, 6 miles # 
west southwest of Fort Campbell Army Air 
Field, said Maj. Randy Schoel, Fort Campbell 
public information officer.
The Blackhawk is the militarys newest heli
copter, but has been plagued by design flaws. 
Last summer, officials said that about 40 
people had been killed in crashes of the heli 
copter since 1978.
Schoel said the crash occurred during a 
routine night mission, and that all aboard 
were killed. He said initial indications were 
that 17 were aboard.
The helicopters were flying at 92 mph when 
they collided at 800 feet, crashed in a partly 
wooded training area and burned, spewing 
wreckage over an area of 330 to 550 yards, 
Schoel said.
One aircraft is located in the trees. One air- i 
craft is right on the edge of a clearing, Schoel 
commented. We are still looking throughout 
the area to see if they can locate any other 
bodies.
LocalNews
Mt. Oliver hostage 
released after standoff
PITTSBURGH  An armed man surren
dered to police Wednesday after a 19-hour 
siege in Mount Oliver.
John Kuchta, 26, had barricaded himself and 
his 1-year-old son in his white, aluminum 
sided home at 134 Koeller St. after an argu
ment with his wife, police said. He threatened 
to harm anyone who barged in.
Peace was finally made the next day, though, 
when County Police Superintendent Robert 
Kroner at 2 pm agreed to remove about a half 
dozen members of the county police special 
weapons and tactics team that had surrounded 
the home if Kuchta would turn his son over to 
his mother and surrender.
Within an hour Kuchta walked out of the 
house to a waiting police car.
Postal Business and Communication ServicesAM1L BOXES ETC. USA
MAILBOXES ETC. can help you get rid of those 
not enough time, too much to do, BLUES! 
We will:
 Word Process Reports Etc.  Copy Resumes & Transcripts
 Cover & Bind Term Papers  Laminate Cards & Awards
 Passport Photos  Keys  Message Service
 Notarized Documents  Supply Business Cards
 Pack & Ship Everything Home
 Private Mailbox Rental  Suite Address24 Hour Access
414 South Craig Street 678-6100

---------------------------------------------------

March 15,1988The TartanPage 3
Arson suspected in Mellon Institute fires
continued from page 1
go off and no one was aware of the fire until 
Williams reported it two and a half hours later. 
Peter Collopy, Director of Environmental 
Health and Safety, said There is one [smoke 
alarm] in that quadrant and with a fire of that 
magnitude it should have gone off.
The fire is believed to have spread from a 
smouldering fire on a couch in the office. It is 
thought that the fire may have been started by 
a cigarette but Acting Chemistry Department 
Head Aksel Bothner-By said that Shukla 
strongly dislikes cigarette smoke and proba
bly would not have allowed anyone to smoke 
in the office.
A second fire is thought to have occurred on 
Saturday, March 5 between 8 and 8:30 pm. At 
8:21 security was notified of an odor in the 
building. They investigated with the help of 
the fire department until 9:31 at which point 
the fire chief declared the source undeter
mined.
The following Monday morning the remains 
of a small fire were found in a fume hood in 
room 143. Security and the fire department 
suspect that it was the cause of the odor which 
probably spread through the ventilation sys
tem leading from the hood to the outside of the 
building.
LaPaglia has tightened security at Mellon 
Institute in an attempt to avoid further inci
dents. Beginning Monday, March 7, a security 
guard has been posted at the loading dock en
trance from 3 pm until 7 am. Between 5 pm and
7 am all doors except for the one at die loading 
dock are supposed to be locked, and the guards 
are instructed to check everyone entering for 
Carnegie Mellon I.D.
Anybody entering or exiting has to sign the 
security log book. The new procedures are in 
effect indefinitely until Security feels they are 
no longer necessary.
Persistent leak irritates E&S Library
By CARLOS FRANCO
Tartan Stajfwriter 
On Feb. 2, the staff of the Engineering and 
Science Library was able to prevent water 
damage to books from a recurring skylight 
leak. This same leak was responsible for ap
proximately $ 150,000 worth of damage to 500 
books on Sept. 6.
Plans have been proposed by Physical Plant 
to solve the library leak problem, but they have 
not been carried out.
On February 2, water leaked again into the 
library through the seals in the sky lights. As in
the September flood, the leaks were caused by 
blocked gutters.
Fortunately, no books were damaged be
cause the leaks were detected during library 
hours, when action could be taken to safeguard 
ithem.
The comers of each of the skylights and the 
false ceiling tiles are water stained, which, 
according to Acting Head Patricia Fitzgerald, 
is caused by many minor leaks which occur 
every time it rains.
The 500 books were damaged to the point 
where they could not be dried out. Until a
pnoio oy Jen uoldblum
Staff at the E&S Library have become accustomed to leaks from the skylight. Trash cans 
are strategically placed to catch water and pieces of plastic cover certain bookshelves.
decision is made about how to recover the 
books, it is necessary to keep them frozen. 
With the books in cold storage, the University 
can decide to freeze dry or simply replace the 
books.
Responding to why the books have not been 
replaced, Fitzgerald stated: There is no 
money; we have not seen any money for this.
The freeze drying process would involve 
trucking frozen books to one of the several 
freeze drying companies in the country. The 
process is both expensive as well as uncertain. 
Some of the damage to the books may be 
irreversible.
The other available option is to simply pur
chase all of the texts which were damaged.
Although the University insures the books, it 
does so on a per volume basis; each book is 
insured for about 50 dollars. According to 
Fitzgerald, 50 dollars per book will not ade
quately cover the costs necessary to either fix 
or replace the books.
For example, the 50 dollars at which the 
insurance company values each book does not 
begin to cover the cost of such texts as The 
Journal of Physics, which would cost $960 to 
replace.
Moreover, the insurance deductible exceeds 
the amount at which the insurance company 
valued the damaged books. The University 
may not recover any money from them.
Due to poor insurance coverage the school 
must pay for the damage itself, which has yet 
to be done. As a result of the damage, students 
and faculty must borrow books from other 
libraries.
Borrowing texts from other libraries is in
convenient because of the time it takes to find 
these books, in many cases several days. In 
some cases it may not even be possible to 
borrow the book from the other libraries.
continued on page 5
Sen. Specter | 
visits SEI
continued from page 1
Daniel J. McKenna, Specters press 
secretary, said the visit will allow the 
Senator to argue as strenuously as 
possible to his colleagues that these cuts 
are unjustified.
Specter has written letters to the chair
man and ranking member of the Senate 
Armed Services Committee  Sam 
Nunn, D-Ga., and John Warner, R-Va., 
respectively.
In addition, Senator Robert C. Byrd, 
D-W.Va., is trying to persuade the 
Chairman of the Defense Appropria
tions Subcommittee to reinstate the 
SEIs funding. In a letter to the chair
man, Senate Majority Leader Byrd 
stated failure to fund the SEI will result 
in an unfortunate de-emphasis on soft
ware technology that is so critical to 
advancing Department of Defense 
weapons and systems.
The SEI is a principle part of Byrds 
Software Valley program, which seeks 
to attract software firms to West Vir
ginia. Both Specter and Byrd are on the 
Senate Appropriations committee.
The cut is a result of a budget compro
mise agreed to by the Congress and the 
Reagan Administration last year. To 
avoid the automatic budget cuts of the 
Gramm-Rudman Deficit Reduction 
Act, a reduction in the Defense Depart
ment request was agreed upon.
The cut will also make recruiting em
ployees to the SEI more difficult. The 
SEI had hoped to employ a total of 200 
engineers and scientists.
expressed similar concerns.
A woman in the biology department pointed 
out that people can still exit by the fire escapes 
without being seen. According to Sergeant 
Bill Ricci of Carnegie Mellon Police, the fire 
escape doors have no alarms.
When asked about the receptionist, Director 
of Mellon Institute William Kaufman ex
plained that The receptionist function was 
being terminated. The administrative offices 
of Mellon Institute are moving to Bellefield 
Towers to make room for the Pittsburgh Su
percomputing Center, and the receptionist will 
be transferred to the new building. Williams 
said that it is up to the Mellon College of 
Science and the Chemistry and Biology de
partments (which occupy Mellon Institute) to 
decide whether they want to have someone at 
the reception desk. He feels that would be a 
useful thing to do.
Kaufman believes that the fires were arsons, 
although he says he does not suspect anyone in 
particular. He thinks that although it is a 
shame they have to be enforced, the new 
security procedures offer a reasonable deter
rent against arson. He feels that checking
I.D.s at all times would be unworkable be
cause of the large number of people going in 
and out of Mellon Institute during business 
hours. He called the current hours a good 
compromise between safety and convenience.
Some occupants of Mellon Institute are 
drafting a memo to LaPaglia addressing their 
concerns about safety in the building. The 
memo asks about alarm and sprinkler systems, 
the Bellefield Street entrance, the loss of the 
receptionist, and the lack of escape routes 
from some areas of the building. It character
izes the situation at Mellon Institute by con
tending that there is a general shell-shocked 
condition that exists and creates a feeling of 
helplessness and outrage.
There is evidence that the instructions are not 
being enforced strictly. At 5:25 pm on Friday, 
March 11, it was possible to leave Mellon 
Institute through the loading dock exit and at 
5:30 one could still enter through the Bellefield Street door.
Occupants of Mellon Institute generally 
support the new procedures although many 
feel that they are not enough to prevent arson
ists from being able to enter the building. 
David Moses, Director for Computer Facili
ties in the chemistry department, would like to 
see a security guard at the entrance 24 hours a
day. He says that under the current system it is 
too easy for people to enter Mellon Institute 
unnoticed during working hours.
A woman in the chemistry department, who 
wished to remain anonymous, said she would 
favor requiring people to sign in and out at all 
times and at all doors. She is also concerned 
about rumors that the receptionist at the en
trance, who left recently, will not be replaced. 
She said that they are eliminating the position 
because there is no money for the position, but 
I think somebody should find money for that 
Other occupants of Mellon Institute have
photo by Jonathan Levy
Two suspicious fires in one week, including one which destroyed this computer in a 
graduate students office, have led to tightened security at Mellon Institute.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanMarch 15,1988
Minutes of the Student Senate Meeting: March 8
Senators Present: Levy, Berger, Christina, 
Dennis, Detillo (Ex-officio), Frazier, Gallo, 
Graupera, Greenberg, Hausman, Herrick, 
Kombrek, Levine, Liu, Mukheijee, Neighbor, 
Pavlovsky, Rao, Ruben, Sakamoto, Steppel, 
Trinh, Vaserstein, Wilke, Zapf, Zung, de Jong, 
Gantshar, Jainchill, Jacowitz, Robitshek (Ex
officio), Skolkin (Ex-officio), Solomon.
1. The meeting called to order at 7:10 pm.
1. Approval of Previous Minutes.
II. Audience Participation
2. Delia Vayansky, former Senate member, 
was in an auto accident and is no longer at 
CMU. She mentioned that CMU is actually a 
nice place to be if one didnt have any classes. 
She thanked the Senate for the card.
3. Senator Greenberg thanked Ms. Vayansky 
saying that thanks to Delia, the [Housing Pri
vacy Policy now] exists.
4. Ms. Vayansky thanked Senator Greenberg 
for his thanks.
5. An audience member, Carolyn, wanted to 
know the status of of the extended gym hours. 
President Cyert said over the air on WRCT that 
he would implement it immediately, but was 
delayed for one week. The target date is now 
March 28. She hoped the the Student Senate 
would give its continued support.
III. Report from Committees
a. SDC: Karen Pavlosky. No report.
b. IFC: No report
c. Student Affairs
6. The Alcohol Policy is not yet complete. 
They are still having meetings to discuss the 
issue. They will probably welcome student 
input.
d. Chairperson: Erica Levy
7. President Cyert has agreed to keep En
tropy open until 2:00 am, a step towards a 24 
hour campus. He is willing to lend some
money toward this end on the condition that 
Entropy will break even.
8. President Cyert will see the mayor later 
this month regarding accidents on Forbes 
Avenue.
9. Senator Neighbor suggested the construc
tion of an overpass. Several other Senators 
informed that that idea had been reviewed at 
one time and had been scrapped.
10. Jean Dexheimer will contact Student 
Senate regarding the Academic Computing 
council.
11. Chairperson Levy will look into campus 
minority groups and major discrimination
issues.
e. Academic Affairs: Lisa Christina
12. The Task Force for Teaching Awards has 
indicated that three undergraduates will serve 
on the selection board. These three students 
will be selected by the Student Government.
13. The Faculty Evaluation Forms will still 
be used.
f. Campus Affairs: Glenn Kombrek
14. Senator Kombrek said that the extended 
gym hours were a good idea.
15. Senator Vaserstein will look into acquir
ing a mail box for mailing letters for the lobby 
of More wood Gardens. Senator Zapf reported 
that he mailed something three weeks ago 
from the current mailbox that is situated in the 
courtyard of Morewood. That letter still has 
not reached its destination.
16. Senator Liu announced that feminine 
dispensers will be available in Skibo. Two 
tampon machines will be installed.
g. Funding and Recognition: Tamal 
Murherjee: No report.
h. Public Relations: Laurie Gallo
17. The Senate-SDC social will be on March 
13 at 7:30 pm in the Faculty Lounge. Dress is
informal, but do not wear dirty clothes.
18. Senator Gallo needed all SDC people to 
be reminded that they must RS VP by March 9.
19. The Senate Happy Hour will be on March
17. Attendance is mandatory.
20. Flyers for the Happy Hour were distrib
uted and need to be postered March 13.
21. Senator Herrick then indicated that he 
will do all the postering instead.
22. The ice skating last week was not a 
success. Taking suggestions for other things 
that the Senate can do together.
23. At the next meeting, Senator Gallo will 
bring in the Senate T-shirts. They will be white 
and have the words Student Senate on them. 
All Senators are to bring along $5.
i. Rules: Allen Greenberg
24. Senator Greenberg in an erudite spiel ad
dressed the alcohol policy indicating that it 
must be contingent on both the state and local 
laws; primarily the biggest change will be the 
section that is quoted because the law has 
changed.
25. Senator Jainchill will propose responsi
bilities of Members at Large and AB, but has 
had no time thus far because of the alcohol 
policy.
26. Senator Greenberg is still investigating 
the University Policy of Professors buying 
out. He does not believe it to be a good idea.
IV. Old Business: None.
V. New Business
27. Senator Ruben proposed that the Student 
Senate recognize International Womens Day. 
The proposal reads We the Student Senate of 
Carnegie Mellon University hereby acknowl
edge International Womens Day, March 8, 
and declare our support of efforts of women 
throughout the world to achieve equality.
28. Senator Vaserstein pointed out that com
munists also support International Womens 
Day, to which several other members of the 
Student Senate replied, so what?
29. The resolution was passed, and it will 
appear in the Senate Minutes.
30. Senator Gallo wanted some feedback re
garding the Book Store selling T-shirts in the 
Senate booth during Carnival. }
31. Senator Greenberg, in a flurry of rapid 
and emotional hand waving, demonstrated 
how small the Senate booth will be. However, 
he suggested that the Book Store could set up 
their table next to the Senate booth.
32. Candidate Cathy Veit was voted in as 
Member at Large, subsequent to her resigna
tion as Secretary of the Student Senate.
VI. Announcements: J)
33. Senator Pavlosky announced that it was 
Chairperson Levys birthday. Amidst a babble 
of Happy Birthday greetings, Senator Green
berg could be heard valiantly trying to sing 
Happy Birthday. He stopped quickly after one 
line when nobody else joined him in his noble, 
yet short-lived effort.
34. Senator Greenberg was awarded some
thing for bringing Presidential candidate Paul ^ 
Simon to campus recently.
35. Senator Graupera announced that Greek 
Sing will be on March 11.
36. Senator Mukherjee announced that the 
tickets to Greek Sing were provided only to 
members of the Greek system. Non-Greeks 
would have to obtain tickets from the Greeks.
37. Senator Gallo told us that Carnival still 
needed people to sell tickets and to act as secu- ^ 
rity. Meeting times will be posted.
38. Senator Greenberg requested a copy of 
the Research policy to be sent to President 
Cyert.
39. The meeting was adjourned at 7:47 pm.
PRESIDENTS
Distinguished Lecture Series
li
*j
Peter J. Awn
Chairman of the Department of Religion, Columbia University 
will present a lecture on
Religious Revivalism and World Politics: 
From Khomeini to Pat Robertson

Wednesday, March 23, 1988 
3:30 p.m. 
Wherrett Room, Skibo HallFree and Open to the Public

---------------------------------------------------

March 15,1988The TartanPage 5
FEATAUR, ST.ARPa, Tag eP17 RO2U4 F7pP.1T4U. hP47
Bush sweeps Super Tuesday
Election 
'88 News
WASHINGTON (DJ)  Vice President 
George Bush won nearly every GOP Super 
Tuesday contest, while Tennessee Sen. Albert 
Gore surged from behind in the South to topple 
Rep. Richard Gephardt and join Gov. Michael
f., Dukakis and the Rev. Jesse Jackson in major 
victories on the Demo
cratic side.
Sen. Robert Dole fin
ished a distant second 
______________ >n the race for 712 Re
publican delegates in 17 states, and former 
Christian broadcaster Pat Robertson came in 
third, even losing the vote of evangelical 
^ Christians to the vice president. Rep. Jack 
Kemp, who placed fourth, withdrew from the 
race last week.
Bush won just about everything in sight, 
including one state Dole had especially hoped 
to carry, North Carolina, the home of the 
Senate minority leaders wife, Elizabeth. Es
timates indicated Bushs bag after Super 
Tuesday will be more than 600 delegates. He 
needs 1,139 to win the nomination.
Florida and Texas led a list of triumphs for 
Dukakis, who won easily in his native Massa
chusetts as well as in Rhode Island, Maryland, 
Washington state and Idaho, according to 
NBC News surveys.
Riding strong support among Southern 
blacks, Jackson won in Georgia, Virginia, 
Louisiana, and Mississippi. Network esti
mates indicated that he would pick up a signifi* cant number of delegates in at least six more 
states where he was running second.
In addition to a victory in Tennessee, Gore 
won in Arkansas, Oklahoma, Kentucky and
North Carolina. In Mississippi and Georgia, 
he was capturing the greatest share of the white 
vote, and had moved into a position where he 
was assured of at least a share of the delegates 
in Texas. Gores success came at the expense 
of Gephardt, who won only in his home state 
of Missouri.
There were 1,307 Democratic delegates at 
stake March 8 in 20 states and American 
Samoa. The indications were that Dukakis 
won the most delegates, capturing about 30 
percent of the total, with Gore and Jackson 
close behind. Overall, Dukakisswho, unlike 
Gore and Jackson, won several earlier con
tests, leads going into todays important Illi
nois primary.
Unfixed leak problem for library
continued from page 3
The cause of the September flood was 
heavy rains. As a result of these rains the 
gutters filled up when one of the half dollarsize drainage holes became clogged and 
water leaked into the library from the seals 
on the skylights as well as from numerous 
structural cracks.
After the September flood, Fitzgerald was 
promised that the leak problem would be 
taken care of, but she says it has not been 
done yet.
One plan to correct the leak was to build 
a metal pan in the rain gutters and to cover 
the gutters with screens. The pans would 
serve to prevent the water from getting into
the skylight seals, while the screens would 
serve to keep out leaves and other debris 
responsible for clogging the drains.
It was also suggested to drill weep holes in 
the gutters. The holes would allow water to 
drain into the planters when the gutters fill 
up to a certain level and this would prevent 
rain water from getting into the skylights 
seals.
The library staff has become so used to the 
rain water entering through the skylights 
that the trash cans in the library are strate
gically placed so as to catch water from the 
leaks. Also, pieces of plastic cover certain 
bookshelves to protect the books from 
water damage.
Crime and Incident Report: 3/4 to 3/8
3/4/88 THEFT 10:09 am Two signs were 
stolen from MorePizza Delivery vehicles Ford 
van & Escort. Value: $206 apiece.
3/4/88 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 11:28 pm 
Persons unknown punched out glass in vend
ing machine adjacent to Porter Hall Credit 
Union office.
3/5/88 BURGLARY 9:08 am GSIA faculty 
member reported that someone entered locked 
office with key and forced open box that ex
ams were kept in. Nothing was found missing.
3/5/88 SPECIAL 11:04 am Responded to 
the odor of smoke on the sixth floor of Mellon 
Institute. Source traced to auto-clave ovens 
that had plastic beakers.
3/5/88 THEFT 3:28 pm Female had dark 
brown waist length jacket stolen from DTD
the previous night.
3/5/88 SPECIAL 8:21 pm Smoke was found 
coming out of the air handling system of 
Mellon Institute. The Pittsburgh Bureau of 
Fire responded. The exact source was not 
determined immediately.
3/6/88 SUSPICIOUS PERSONS 3:20 am 
Female student felt she was followed by two 
males walking by Cut along Doherty Hall. 
Neither were found.
3/7/88 DISORDERLY CONDUCT 12:43 
am At the comer of Margaret Morrison and 
Tech Street, a campus police vehicle was en 
route to a medical emergency. The vehicle 
proceeded on the buggy course during push 
practice. Everyone cooperated except one 
person who acted disorderly and was uncoop
erative. He was issued a state citation.
3/7/88 SPECIAL 6:37 am Source of smoke 
odor on Saturday night was determined to be a 
small paper fire inside room 143 in Mellon 
Institute. It is under investigation.
3/7/88 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 7:53 am 
Persons unknown cut down five foot crab 
apple tree located in fraternity area. The tree 
was found in fraternity dumpster. Value: 
$750.
3/7/88 THEFT 5:34 pm Persons unknown 
entered a students unlocked office in UCC 
and stole a bright red AM/FM Radio Shack 
cassette stereo radio. Value: $64.
3/8/88 THEFT 8:21 am Persons unknown 
stole a ten-speed bicycle from the Carol Apart
ments bike rack.
ATTENTION ATTENTION ATTENTION
THE CARNEGIE MELLON ACTION PROJECT (C-MAP) 
IS INTERESTED IN HIRING TUTORS FOR THE FOLLOWING COURSES:
15-211 FUNDAMENTAL STRUCTURE OF COM. SCIENCE 
15-117 INTRO. TO COMPUTER LISP 
15-111 INTRO. TO COMPUTER E&S
18-222 ANALYSIS & DESIGN OF DIGITAL INTEGRATED CIRCUITS 
18-354 APPLIED MAGNETICS
21-122 CALCULUS II (CIT)
36-219 ENGINEERING STATISTICS 
48-115 STATISTICS (ARCHITECTURE)
82-302 FRENCH COMPOSITION
If you are interested in tutoring, please contact Dr. La Valla Wilson at 268-2150. A 
copy of your transcript, or a letter of recommendation from your department or 
instructor, is needed to assess your competency in the given subject
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 
SUMMER SESSION 88
2003 Sheridan Road Evanston. Illinois 60206
Please send my free copy of the Summer Session '88 catalog with financial aid and registration information (Available mid March)
Name
School Address 
Citf
Horn Address
City
State ZIP
Saat, H luuirtiBi ..Send the coupon or call 1800 FINDSNU (Inside QUnois call 312/491 4114
Required courses dont have to be dry.
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center 269- 2922 After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator will help you reach the staff member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh.............................................................. 782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive listening
Drug Connection..................................................................... 854-0700
An alcohol drug crisis hotline, 5 - 9 pm
Tel-Aid......................................................................... 281-4664
A Series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safety issues. 
Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs 
Morewood Gardens - E Tower


---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
The rain keeps coming down
It rains a lot in Pittsburgh.
In fact, it rains so much that Engineering and Science Library 
employees have erected plastic tarps over the books and placed 
garbage cans to catch rainwater inside Wean Hall.
Last September, heavy rains caused $ 150,000 in damage to 
500 books, and only quick action by the Library staff prevented 
a similar disaster when water leaked in and Wean Hall lost 
power on February 2.
Despite promises dating back to September that Physical Plant 
would fix the leaks, nothing has been done.
The books that were damaged last fall were too water logged 
to be dried out; instead they were frozen and put in cold storage 
until the administration makes a decision whether to replace 
them or freeze-dry' them.
Even though the books were insured, the University will lose 
money if the books are replaced and might not be able to reverse 
the damage if the books are freeze dried.
Some of the 500 volumes will cost as much as $960 to replace, 
but the University insures each book at a flat rate of about $50. 
When was the last time you heard of anyone insuring something 
at 5.2% of its value? Where does the University expect to make 
up the other 95%? The librarys budget?
Libraries, like endowments, are integral parts of any 
universitys assets, especially a research university.
Carnegie Mellon cannot afford to lose any more books. It is 
absolutely absurd that a library would allow rain to leak onto its 
shelves and ruin its books.
Get on the ball, Physical Plant. Were tired of unkept promises, 
and were tired of temporary solutions like plastic and trash 
cans. Seal the skylights so that they will quit leaking.
Isnt it ironic that one of the nations top 25 engineering and 
science libraries is structurally unsound? We deserve a lot 
better than that.
Where have all the leaders gone?
In 1790 America, with a population of just 4 million, was home 
to great leaders such as Washington, Jefferson, Franklin, and 
Adams. Two centuries later we find our choices for President 
limited to candidates such as Bush, Dukakis, Dole, Gore, 
Jackson, and Robertson.
Any of these men might make an adequate president, but none 
have inspired a broad cross-section of Americans. Though they 
have supporters, many voters would rather support candidates 
who have declined to run.
For months, Democrats have lamented that Mario Cuomo, 
Bill Bradley, Sam Nunn, and Charles Robb have decided not to 
run for president. Republicans have also expressed dissatisfac
tion with the field, especially as it narrows.
People who would make good Presidents wont run for the 
office. This displeasure with political life has even spread to the 
U.S. Senate, where several Senators are not seeking re-election.
While the rest of the world is filled with dynamic leaders such 
as Mikhail Gorbachev, Margaret Thatcher, and Deng Xiaoping, 
this nation can not afford to discourage its best from running for 
our most important job.
Why are we failing to select the most capable person for our 
leader? The media must accept some of the blame. The constant 
scrutiny of private life and analysis of public life are too much 
too ask of anyone.
Also, contemporary journalism has made campaigning a 
humiliating process. In Iowa, to get media attention the Vice 
President had to be photographed with squealing pigs and Jesse 
Jackson had to milk a cow.
The public is also at fault. By failing to take an interest in 
current events and issues, the electorate encourages a blas field 
of candidates. How can a candidate excite a crowd about an 
issue, if no one is familar with it?
With no incumbent running in either party, the statements that 
candidates make in this election are particularly important. It is 
the job of the media to report the issues and the public to take 
an interest in them.
Otherwise, Joseph de Maistres statement will continue to be 
true: Every nation has the government that it deserves.
o74471Rt
Reader asks: What is real
Editor:
I am appalled that the Dean of 
CFA, Akram Midani, would make a 
statement that Fibers and Glass 
areas are crafts only, and crafts do 
not belong in the Art Department. 
A look into my dictionary reveals 
that each word defines the other; 
there is no clear distinction between 
art and craft, their definitions 
intertwine. The distinction lies in the 
person who produces the work or 
object in question. What do they see 
as their primary goal, aesthetics or 
function? What medium are most 
appropriate? Is there a balance be
tween the constituents? Should ag
ing and wear be a matter for con
cern? The artist may pay particular 
attention to one set of questions and 
ignore others, the crafts person may 
do the same, but they both can 
choose to address the issue of form, 
beauty and function simultaneously.
The basic materials used by hu
mans in all ages have been polymers, 
ceramics and metals. We use them as 
tools, weapons, functional everyday 
objects, and in art. Glasss incred
ible utility has been appreciated for 
5000 years, but that does not mean it 
is inappropriate for use in art, any
more than wood, bronze or marble 
are. Many books and shows show 
glass as a craft, but others show it as 
art; the debate is still going on. I 
would suggest a thorough look at 
Contemporary Studio Glass by The 
National Museum of Modem Art, 
Kyoto, to gain a fuller appreciation 
of glass as an artistic medium.
Fearing the loss of Glass as they 
lost Fibers, the sculpture and art 
students state they are using glass to 
make sculpture, not functional ob
jects. They imply that crafts are 
functional, art is not, and artistic 
qualities are best appreciated in non
functional objects. Does the Dean 
believe that functional art is a 
lower form than high art? If masonry 
is a craft, where does that leave 
architecture? Should we bulldoze 
the Greek arenas and the Parthenon? 
I dont think so. The Japanese have 
made a culture out of seeing beauty 
in everyday things, are they to be
considered unartistic? The Shakers 
are forbidden by religious law to 
make non-functional objects, yet 
their products have been exhibited 
as art, have they passed off some 
crafts as art? The answer is no!
What is real art? The pure and 
refined art of painting? Ambrose 
Bierce defines that as, Painting, n. 
The art of protecting flat surfaces 
from weather and exposing them to 
the critic. Painting is certainly far 
from this. Crayons are for babies! 
one student protested in an art class, 
and was informed that babies like 
DaVinci used crayons. Dominick 
Labino graduated from Carnegie 
Institute of Technology and was a 
glass technologist who made great 
contributions in the application and 
production of glass. Late in life he 
decided to work with glass as a 
sculptor, instead of a scientist. He 
produced some of the most beautiful 
glass sculpture I have seen. In his 
hands and others, Glass is more than 
just a craft. I am, and he would 
have been, disappointed to hear the 
Dean and Head of Fine Arts speak of 
Glass as just a craft. Do they hope
Editor:
I believe that Dr. Cyert should be 
commended for his recent decision 
to extend gym hours. In the past, I 
have found that dealing with the 
CMU administration to be both dif
ficult and time consuming. Not this 
time! His decision was made over 
the college radio station within a 
week of the request.
The importance of his statement 
cannot be underestimated. With the 
semester starting to come to comple
tion, work begins to build up, and it 
is difficult to hold regular hours. Yet 
athletic endeavor is a definite need. 
I find that when I am in shape, I have 
more energy and I am less suscep
tible to ailment. My attitude im
proves, and I feel good about myself.
With the gym open later during the
art, anyway?
to protect something or gain some
thing in the process? Is favoritism 
going on here? I hope we find out.
Professor Mulcahy has been here 
eleven years. I have been here eight. 
All the students Ive known, who 
have studied Glass under Mulcahy 
have been excited by glass as a 
medium and have respect and admi
ration for Mulcahy as an instructor. 
She has exhibited in the Scaife Gal
lery. Was she denied tenure in order 
to phase out Glass? That would be 
the first step, getting rid of the one 
talented and caring professor who 
teaches it. Now we have been as
sured that glass study will remain 
for four more years. What kind of 
glass study? Apparently CMU is one 
of the few schools that teaches glass 
as sculpture. Will Midani endeavor 
to hire a professor who would teach 
glass as a craft, a hatchet man, who 
would justify his narrow view of 
glass?
Finally, if people are quitting and 
being replaced as often as they are in 
the Art Dept, now, that undermines 
it So does the lack of support from
continued on page 8
week and on Saturdays, it will be far 
less arduous to keep with my physi
cal fitness regimen. Others, Im 
sure, will benefit from the extra 
hours, whether they use them for 
swimming, basketball, or weight
lifting.
I think that Dr. Cyert, with his 
future plans for a new student center, 
a new dorm and a new performing 
arts theatre, is greatly concerned 
about the quality of student life. The 
recent extension of hours is another 
example of his excellent ability to 
soundly guide the development of 
Carnegie Mellon to the full status of 
University.
Thanks again.
Peter C. Green 
Sophomore, ECE
Cyert commended on 
extension of gym hours

---------------------------------------------------

March 15,1988The TartanPage 7
, Super Commercials: We just 
cant seem to get enough of em
bayEU1Uan dUagRG
Its a strange worldBy ART BUCHWALD
There is no better time than Super Tuesday to 
honor Negative Political Television Advertis
ing. In a year with dull, uninspiring candi
dates, NPTA has saved many a campaign from
* becoming a disaster. People pretend they dis
like negative politi
cal ads, but the truth 
is they cant get 
enough of them.
J. Walter Hard
wick, in charge of 
dirty advertising at 
Dipthong & Roader, 
said he feels nega
tive political televi
sion advertising will 
decide the next 
presidential elec
tion. Its just a 
question of who 
sticks it deeper into 
the other fellow. 
ft Im working on a
commercial which Im going to submit to the 
Dole people tomorrow.
It shows George Bush in an airplane being 
shot down over the Pacific. As his plane 
crashes into the ocean we have a voice-over 
saying, George Bush fought bravely during 
World War II  but the question is, on whose 
side?
^ Thats pretty negative, I admitted. Are 
you going after the Bush account as well? 
When youre in negative advertising you go 
for every account you can get your hands on. 
This commercial, which we havent shown to 
the Bush people yet, shows a bull tearing 
through a china shop wrecking everything in 
sight. Then we see Bob-Dole picking up pieces 
of glass. The print on the screen says, Bob 
Dole has the kind of temper this country needs. 
For every promise he has broken there is a 
broken bull in this china shop.
Youre not going after the Robertson ac
count, are you? I asked.
Why not  hes a candidate, isnt he? 
Hes a moral man and would not believe in 
negative advertising.
Maybemaybe not. Somebody over in the 
Robertson camp asked me to come up with 
negative ads against Bush and Dole.
Listen to this one: We show a birth certifi
cate with the name George Bush on it. The
iPaR71hT4Uh7 iP1a71G
By THOMAS HEIM
Former Air Force Sergeant Leonard Matlovich describes the U.S. Court of Appeals ruling 
in favor of homosexuals in the armed forces as 
an incredible victory. The ruling, however, 
overlooks the Congress power to make rules 
for the government 
 anc* regulation of
the land and naval 
forces guaranteed 
by the Constitution. 
The nations second highest court removed 
the Armys authority to eliminate homosexu
als from within its ranks. In the latest case of 
judicial activism, the courts have overlooked 
the Constitution completely in a blatant ideological move. Once again, it looks as if it will 
have to be up to the Supreme Court to rectify 
the ruling of yet another far-left leaning judge.
No one would contend that homosexuals are 
not as patriotic or competent as mainstream 
Americans. This in and of itself, however, is 
not grounds for the makeup of the army. It 
seems to me that the U.S. officer corps, made 
up of talented individuals who have years ot
wind blows it away as a voice-over says, 
George Bush was not bom again. Then we 
see a birth certificate with Bob Doles name on 
it. The voice-over says, Bob Dole was not 
bom again, and then a third certificate with 
Jack Kemps name on it. The voice-over says, 
Neither was Kemp 
bom again. How can 
anyone run a country 
if he was only bom 
once?
Thats good, I 
said. Anybody hire 
you to do a negative 
Robertson commer
cial?
Yes, we have one. 
I show a big ball of 
fire with eerie music 
and a voice says,  Ar
mageddon  if Pat 
Roberston is elected, 
it will be for every
one.
You doing anything for the Democrats? I 
asked.
Im submitting an anti-Dukakis advertise
ment to the Gephardt people. It shows Dukakis 
alone and lost in Washington.
He stops a man on the street and says, 
Excuse me. Im the governor of Massachu
setts and this is my first time in Washington. 
How does it work?
It may be too subtle, I suggested. What 
have you got for Gephardt?
This is neat. We show Gephardt looking at 
a Missouri sky and the voice-over says,  Every 
time Dick Gephardt reaches for the stars, he 
shoots himself in the foot. If you want a Presi
dent on crutches, then cast your ballot for 
Gephardt.
You have some strong negative advertising 
there.
We do our best. We tell our clients that there 
is no sense running for public office if they 
dont have the will to kick their opponents in 
the groin.
I dont suppose you have ever had a client 
who insisted on taking the high road.
We did once and he lost everything in his 
first caucus in Sioux City, Iowa.
Art Buchwald is a syndicated columnist with 
the Los Angeles Times.
experience in producing strong armies, might 
know a great deal more than unelected judges 
intent on achieving some ideological goal by 
destroying the morale of the army and usurp
ing the Constitution.
American officers believe that homosexuals 
have an adverse effect on morale in the ranks. 
On submarines or other confined areas of 
military life, it is not surprising to find that 
seemingly small riffs between people lead to 
large morale and discipline problems, never 
mind the complications that would be pre
sented with gay men.
The lifestyle of homosexual men in the cur
rent AIDS era has shown that they are uniquely 
common carriers of the virus. In combat situ
ations, where soldiers are often blood banks 
for one another, it is inadvisable to turn to 
homosexuals who may not have had an AIDS 
test in months  never mind the frequent 
inaccuracy of the tests.
The army excludes homosexuals because, in 
the experience of the officers, gay men intro
duce unnecessary problems into the ranks. 
This action is also in accord with traditional
By THE INQUIRING STAFF
Its a strange world. Blame it on that 
damn harmonic convergence, but Jesse 
Jackson got 369 delegates on Super Tues
day. There are also 50.65 uncommitted 
Democratic delegates. That means some
where out there is 
.65 of an uncommitted 
Democrat.
That .65 of the 
person is lost, but we think we know where 
the remaining .35 is. Last week, three 
people were convicted for first-degree 
murder in Florida. One of them had wanted 
his mothers head cryogenically preserved 
in the hope they could someday attach it to 
someone elses body.
The coroner says the cause of death was 
a barbituate overdose. The defendants 
claim she was already dead and the drugs 
were needed to preserve her body.
We have two questions. If she were dead, 
whose body did they want to put the head 
on? Maybe Joan Rivers could take the 
face-lift one better? If she werent dead, 
she must have had one hell of an ugly body 
since they only salvaged the head.
On the subject of medicine, theres been 
a major advance in birth control. In fact, 
its so big it gives new meaning to the 
phrase stimulating orgasm. The device 
uses a small battery attached to a dia
phragm that zaps wayward sperm into 
oblivion. Remember playing with 9-volt 
batteries on your tongue as a kid? Well this 
gives you an idea of what its like. If you 
put 2 D-cells inside your girlfriends dia
phragm, she probably won't even need it 
any more.
This device would have come in handy 
for a particular woman in the Soviet Union. 
She was named a Hero of the Soviet 
Union for having ten children, kind of like 
the Osmond family. In fact, half of the chil
dren were jazz musicians. The key word 
here is were.
Last Wednesday, the family decided that
__________HERBLOCKS CARTOON__________:
"YOU THMK ru HEAL IN TIME FOR THE NOVEMBER MATCH?''
religious beliefs and wisdom of the American 
people, and almost certainly the Supreme 
Court will once again turn to the Constitution 
in overturning the Appeals Court ruling, to set 
Americas priorities straight once and for all.
theyd rather do their next gig in London 
instead of Leningrad. They smuggled fire
arms on board an Aeroflot flight in their in
strument cases. In flight, they hijacked the 
plane and demanded that it go to England.
They did not notice when the pilot de
cided he wanted to go to Leningrad after 
all. The Soviet Military did one hell of a job 
rescuing the plane. They got the mother, 
five kids, three passengers, one stewardess, 
and bombed the rear of the craft. Sounds 
like a movie Joe Bob would review (No 
breasts, but plenty of Red Fu).
On the other side of the Atlantic, our own 
military demonstrated its parity with the 
Red Army. Between March 1984 and De
cember 1986, 22 soldiers were run over by 
tanks during training at Ft. Hood, Texas. 
Apparently they were asleep when the 
accidents occurred, but it seems to us that 
youd wake up if you heard a 2.5 ton M-l 
Abrams tank barrelling towards you.
The odd part, though, is that this hap
pened in 19 separate exercises, not 22. At 
least one driver had a really good night.
So, whats the point of all of this? Do you 
think youre the only one that has prob
lems? Jeez, NYU finally decided that call
ing its team the Violets was even more 
dumb than us calling ourselves the Tartans. 
Big deal!
So what if youve got more work due in 
the next two weeks than Ed Meese has done 
in the last seven years. Who cares if you 
cant afford Florida or even Ohio for 
break?
It could really be worse. There aren't too 
many tanks around here; its very unlikely 
that you're going to have ten kids; and even 
less unlikely someone wants to preserve 
your head for future use. The FDA hasnt 
approved the spermblaster yet, so this 
weekend is still safe. Besides, Jesse 
Jackson won't be President for at least one 
more year. So stop your whining!
The Inquiring Staff is S. Levine, C. Wil
liams, and R. Wilson.
Editor-in-Chief.............................Karl Barnha
Managing Editor..........................Erika Peters
Business Manager........................Russ Seligm;
News Editor............................Eric W. Leuliel
Assistant News Editor.....................Chris Youi
Features Editors.......................Judy Harabun
Howdy Pier
Sports Editor.......................................Josh Rub
Assitant Sports Editor.............Natalie Hawryli
Diversions Editor.............................Michael Rt
Photo Assignment Editor..............Andy Gillesi
Photo Darkroom Editor...............Albrecht Pow
Art Editor...............................Grant Carmich;
Literary Editor.........................Michele Oshen
Production Manager...............Dustin L. Fraz
Copy Editor.................................David N. Le
Contributing Editors..........................................
Bruce Kasrel Neil (reenblui
Drue Miller Mark Benish
John Friedmann Stewart Levim
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon Univei It is a weekly newspaper, published by students each Tuesday dt the fall and spring semesters, at no cost to members of the urwve community It is printed by Typecratt Press. Inc Subscriptions available for $15 per semester. $25 per year The Editorial appe. at the beginning of the opinion section is the official opinion of Tartan editorial board Columns are the opinions of individual aut who are not necessarily on The Tartan editorial board or staff Let to the Editor are opinions of individual authors who are us members of the University community A letter intended for public must be signed and include the writer s address and phone numb* verification Names will be withheld upon request The Tartai serves the right to condense or refect any letter or column Copy  1988 by The Tartan The editorial board reserves the ng withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17 / Carneg 
Mellon University / Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. All rights 
reserved. Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-31
Homosexuals create unnecessary % problems in the military
999   
The Tartan

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanMarch 15,1988
o74471R. .Pa4t
Hunt Institute funds separate 
from rest of libraries
Hosting a bagger: How 
bad can it possibly be?
Editor:
Your article in The Tartan contains a serious 
error regarding Hunt Library in the Capital 
Campaign. The $7.3 million figure you quoted 
includes $6.3 million for the Hunt Institute for 
Botanical Documentation pledged by the 
Hunt family. These funds are not available for 
the services and operations of the University 
Libraries, but are dedicated to support the 
activities of the Hunt Institute which is admin
istratively separate from the University Li
braries.
$1.1 million has been raised to date for the 
University Libraries. The total goal is $5 mil
lion. The $5 million will be used for endow
ment to provide additional resources to build 
the collections. The income we have received 
from the funds already raised has begun to 
make a difference in our ability to make im
provements in the collections. In 1986/87, the 
first full year of significant endowment inEditor:
President Cyert recently made a small ges
ture toward improving the quality of life on 
campus and this gesture should be noted. 
Many of my friends and I signed a petition, 
which was circulating a few weeks ago, to 
support a proposal to extend the hours of the 
gymnasium.We were somewhat skeptical 
about its chances and even joked about how 
quickly it would find its way into the admin
istrative dumpster. I tuned into President 
Cyerts question and answer session on
come, the Libraries added more than 18,000 
new book titles, an increase of more than 5,000 
over 1985/86.1 am working very hard with 
members of the Development Office staff to 
raise the additional funds needed to reach our 
goal. I am confident that the goal will be 
reached, if not surpassed.
The Libraries Capital Campaign brochure 
describes the pressing needs of the University 
Libraries for support for collections in all 
three campus libraries. Copies are available in 
Hunt Library, the Engineering and Science 
Library, and the Mellon Institute Library.
It is important that your readers have a 
correct understanding of where the University 
Libraries are in the Capital Campaign.
Tom Michalak
Assoc. Vice President for Academic 
Services,
Director of University Libraries
WRCT on Wednesday, March 2. A caller 
questioned Cyert about the gym proposal and, 
after a brief discussion, the President agreed 
that the gym hours would be extended imme
diately. Thank you, President Cyert. Small 
tokens like this are greatly appreciated by the 
student body and provide evidence that the ad
ministration is concerned about the needs of 
the students.
Bill Nalen 
Junior, Math
Editor:
How did you decide to come to Carnegie 
Mellon? For 1156 of you the answer probably 
has something to do with Sleeping Bag 
Weekend. Approximately 27.5% of the stu
dents on campus right now were once 
baggers. Yet surprisingly only 3% of the 
entire campus has ever hosted a bagger. 
Where are the other 24.5% of you??
I know youre out there. Why havent you 
hosted? One reason students give for not host
ing a bagger is that they have too much work 
to do. I certainly cant argue with that, but 
what is wrong with a bagger seeing how much 
work we have? Sleeping Bag Weekend is 
designed to give prospective students a 
chance to take a true look into Carnegie 
Mellon. What more accurate picture can we 
show than students working hard? Besides, 
these baggers are smart; why not let them do 
your homework?
Another reason is that your room is too 
small. But baggers dont require much space! 
All they ask for is a small area of the floor onto 
which they can throw their sleeping bags and 
enjoy the atmosphere. The purpose of the 
Weekend is to see what its like to be a student 
here. Youre a student, and thats all the 
baggers care about.
As a student, I know that some weekends 
actually are impossible. As Sleeping Bag 
Coordinator Im not asking you to host all the 
time. But surely one or two Sunday nights a 
year couldnt hurt. I think everyone can deal 
with that.
Whether or not you were ever a bagger, 
hosting is the opportunity for you to help
someone else see if Carnegie Mellon is the 
place for him or her. Its a great help to a high 
school student in the middle of picking a col
lege to see what its really all about here. So the 
next time you see a host registration form in f ^ 
your mailbox, think about it. After all, how bad 
can it be? And who knows, you just might 
enjoy yourself!
Sandy Gatt
Junior, Applied Math
Sleeping Bag Coordinator
Ailing CFA needs > 
qualified people
continued from page 6
the administration and from the general stu
dent population. What kind of incentive will 
incoming faculty have for joining CFA? To at
tract talented caring people will be impossible. 
We will instead get the mediocre, the politi
cians. We need to keep Mulcahy, and work 
towards making Fine Arts a healthier depart
ment. While the accreditation board may not 
like one instructor per area, at least let the few 
faculty we do have be excellent. Otherwise we 
are going to end up concentrating on comput
ers, robotics, science and engineering only, 
having lost the breadth and variety of activity 
and appreciation that characterizes a real uni
versity. We can change our name back to CIT, ' 
while H&SS and CFA can rest in peace.
Sanford Kauffman 
Special Student, Physics
Another thank-you for Cyert
STUDENT SENATE ELECTIONS
V_J
APRIL 11 &> 12
Pick up petitions at Info Desk. 
Due by Friday, March 25 @ 5:00pm 
Elections for:
4H&SS seats1 Comp Sci seat
2MCS seats1 SUPA seat
4CIT seats3 GSIA seats
3CFA seats
Funded by your activities fee
3
)
i
I
p
>

---------------------------------------------------

photo b\ Andy Gillespie
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Contributing Editor
The curtain was late. A confident Steve Stone waited 
backstage musing, (It's) just me and that audience."
That audience, with some members in costumes, some in 
suits, and still more in jeans was still filling into their seats 
well after the scheduled 7:30 pm starting time.
AB Tech was also anxious, shooing away prying partici
pants, guests, and journalists from the backstage area.
The evening's preparations had gotten to many people. 
Delta Gammas costumer Karyn Silva confided while wait
ing in the wings, I hate black," after overseeing the making 
of Delta Gammas many black costumes.
Above: The proceeds from Greek Sing 1988 went toward the establishment of a Big Brother/Big Sister program on campus. Several little brothers and sisters appeared in a special 
presentation with the sisters of Sigma Alpha Iota, a womens music honorary fraternity.
Their choreographer Shari Heilman was 
more succinct. Im having a nervous break
down, was all she could manage as she 
 searched for various members of her crew.
Alpha Tau Omega was doing some last 
minute rehearsing. One brother noted, 
Theres a crowd out there!  Another received 
final instructions from the choreographer 
while a few more flexed their muscles, either 
to relax before the show, or, as it turned out, to 
practice for the show.
Others felt pangs of fear as well. Chi 
1 Omegas Natalie Hawryluk was quite ada
mant. Isnt any good performer nervous? 
she asked.
One unnamed Kappa Sigma brother had 
other worries. My diaper is saggy and it 
leaks, he muttered.
Others had turned their energy towards ex
citement I feel great, exclaimed Alpha 
Epsilon Pis Stu Fox, I havent done this in 
^ eight years, Im psyched. His remarks were 
only slightly out of character for the cowardly 
lion he was readying to portray.
There were also the few who felt confident. 
One Pilam was honest, or at least so he 
thought, when he confided, I cant tell you 
anything unbiased, except that were the best, 
and that Bebek was proud of Pilams perform
ance.
Bill Burke, a Theta Xi pledge, liked his 
houses chances with Chess. Weve im
proved the show 100 fold, he assured.
At least one of Burkes brothers agreed. Phil 
Antonson was confident before taking the 
stage. If things go as well as planned, well 
place, he assured.
There were also those who just wanted to 
relax. Mitzi Huff, DGs director, was getting 
set to perform with another group, Sigma Tau 
Gamma. I needed something fun to do, she 
explained.
Finally, an excitedEdyeTarbox strolled onto 
the Carnegie Music Hall stage, amidst ap
plause and wolf whistles, to kick off Greek 
Sing 1988.
The theatrical minds of Pittsburgh who had 
focused their attentions on Macbeth were in 
for a surprise. There were no concerns over 
stars, or sets, or Broadway for the next three 
hours. Instead, eighteen fraternities and so
rorities were on stage to have fun, win a 
trophy, and raise money for the Big Brothers 
and Sisters of Greater Pittsburgh.
The show started out simply. Stone trotted on 
stage, alone save for his accompaniment On a 
stark stage, he sang New York, New York to 
represent his house, Beta Theta Pi.
The stage filled up considerably with the 
next act. It was a mixture of mostly familiar
tunes where muscle tone was at least as impor
tant as musical tone. Performing such stan
dards as ATO Boys and Just an ATO, the 
brothers put on a show with the most diverse 
choice of costuming since the Village People 
stopped touring.
Other organizations also went for humor and 
originality. No Greek Sing is complete with
out Sigma Nus irreverent and often incoherA few more flexed their 
muscles, either to relax be
fore the show, or, as it 
turned out, to practice for 
the show.
it Zoo Tunes. As the Zoo took the stage, 
one brother reminded another, This is a seri
ous event
This years Toons was a medley of a couple 
of songs which we happen to know the words 
to. This included a list of what a cowboy 
needs to ride his horse: a Xerox machine, 
bidet a quadrophonic stereo with Dolby noise 
reduction, and what Sigma Nu perhaps wants 
most, a 1988 first place Sweepstakes trophy.
There was also Kappa Delta Rhos interpre
tation of last years film Roxanne. KDRs 
show, made possible by a special order of 
some thirty-odd red suspenders, blended re
worked songs and lines from the movie. And, 
of course, the nose was realor so they said.
Delta Tau Delta also was revisionist Their 
performance of Taming Of The Shrew owed at 
least as much to Moonlighting as it did to 
William Shakespeare. The chronicles of 
Katharine and Petruchio were told by I Heard 
It Through The Grapevine and Good Love. 
Not only did the entire town of Padua cele
brate, but a California raisin and the Papal 
Power choir was on hand.
Other groups stayed with more traditional 
work. Two of the universitys newest fraterni
ties, Sigma Tau Gamma and AEPi, performed 
back-to-back with renditions of Little Shop of 
Horrors and The Wizard of Oz. The former 
featured Greek Sings first-ever guitar playing 
plant while the latter had one of the more 
nights more interesting props, two legs 
wedged underneath a house.
Another staid group was Pi Lambda Phi, with 
its medley of Frank Loesser songs. The selec
tions from How To Succeed In Business were 
kicked off with President Keith Stopen telling 
the assembly, A secretary is not a toy. Those
continued on page 10

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanMarch 15,1988
photo by Andy Gillespi
Above: Beta brother Steve Stone opened 
the show with New York, New York. O
photo by Jeff Rosenblum
Above: Audrey II, a man-eating plant, jams on bass guitar in Sig Taus production of 
little Shop of Horrors.
received, Is anyone not wearing any clothes? 
Im not. An almost truth, a body suit saved 
her from getting arrested for public indecency.
Still more black was next with Tri-Delts 
Cabaret. With lots of solos and lots of move
ment, the sisters went through songs like 
Wilkommen, Through My Eyes, and the 
unofficial song of Carnegie Mellon, Money 
Makes The World Go Round.
It took the third sorority of the half to bring ^ 
some color back to the stage. Chi Omega took 
the stage with The Pajama Game, performing 
in a rainbow assortment of pajamas. The Chi 
Os even attempted their ATO imitation, flex
ing through part of Im Not In Love.
After the three sororities, the fraternities 
returned to the stage. The evenings eventual 
continued on page 11
Yes, some fraternities and 
sororities won some tro
phies, but the real winner 
was the Big Brother and Sis
ter program.
tion. Clad in diapers, the house proclaimed I 
Wont Grow Up eschewing dignity and seri
ous expression. The brothers were animated, 
probably because it was so much wanner on 
stage than in the wings.
The sorority competition traditionally feaphoto by Andy Gillespie
Above: The black-clad Tri-Delt sisters and pledges say Willkmmen, Bienvenue, Wel
come as they present Cabaret.
tures less of an emphasis on staging and more 
on movement. Kappa Alpha Theta kicked off 
their division with a rendition of Cole Porters 
Anything Goes. The sisters went everywhere 
on the stage, culminating with chairperson 
Sarah Fay coyly suggesting that everyone 
misbehave.
Sometimes, however, the themes seemed to 
transcend competition. For example, the be
ginning of the show's second half was domi
nated by color, specifically the color black.
Each of the first three shows  Theta Xis 
Chess, Delta Gammas Nine, and Delta Delta 
Deltas Cabaret  all featured performers in 
various stages of black dress (and undress).
Theta Xis performance of scenes from 
Chess beat the show to Broadway and was rife 
with the themes from the show: black vs. 
white, America vs. Soviet Union, making 
money vs. making sport.
Delta Gamma came next, making a splash 
over what they wore and did not wear. One DG 
sang, to even more whistles than Edye Tarbox
continued from page 9
backstage had seen him practicing the line on 
end. and he was greatly relieved when it was 
done.
Quad neighbor Kappa Sigmas version of 
Peter Pan followed Pilam and the Kappa Sigs 
displayed more flesh than any other organizaphoto by Andy GillespieAbove: The brothers and pledges of Delta Upsilon took the Fraternity and Overall prizes with their rendition of Big River.

---------------------------------------------------

March 15,1988The TartanPage 11
photo by Jeff Kosenblum
Above: The American and Russian champions go head-to-head in Theta Xis produc
tion of Chess.
winners are...
Overall Winner
Delta Upsilon
Fraternity Division
1. Delta Upsilon 
2. Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
3. Phi Kappa Theta
Sorority Division
1. Kappa Alpha Theta 
2. Kappa Kappa Gamma 
3. Delta Delta Delta
Mixed Division
1. Delta Tau Delta
2. Pi Lambda Phi
Chairmans Awards
Kappa Sigma 
Kappa Delta Rho
FEATT ruiuj vi
Above: Pilam brothers, pledges, and little sisters present a medley of Frank Loesser songs 
from How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying.'
Above: The Pajama Game was performed by Chi O sisters and pledges.
Q continued from page 10
top three performed in what would be the order 
of their finish.
First were the brothers of Delta Upsilon with 
selections from Big River. With an extensive 
backdrop and crowd-pleasing choreography 
and gymnastics, the group elicited large 
amounts of applause through Do You Want 
to Go to Heaven, and The Boys, Sun Goes 
Down in the South, and Muddy Water. 
Following were the mens defending 
champs, Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Known for 
their ambitious shows, SAE traded top-hats 
and canes for kimonos and fans while 
performing The Mikado. Their Lord High 
Executioner was, indeed, high above the pro
ceedings, and once again the movement on 
stage was superb.
$ The last fraternity to perform, Phi Kappa 
Theta, emulated Theta Xis decision to go with 
a new show. Their brothers and pledges turned
into an effective mob in their performance of 
Les Miserables.
Closing out the show was Kappa Kappa 
Gamma with selections from Sweet Charity. 
Starting out with Hey, Big Spender, the 
sisters moved through Something Better 
Than This, to close with Rhythm of Life. 
When it was all over, some people felt better 
about their performances than others. One 
Delta Gamma confessed, Anyone who wants 
to know the girl who was going right when 
everyone was going left, it was me. 
However, all around, people seemed more 
pleased that they had made it through Greek 
Sing 1988 with spirited performances and a 
little bit of chutzpah.
Yes, some fraternities and sororities won 
some trophies, but the real winner was the Big 
Brother and Sister program that will be started 
at Carnegie Mellon through the proceeds from 
this show.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanMarch 15,1988
photos by Jeff Rosenblum 
and Andy Gillespie
Above: DTD brothers, pledges and little 
sisters present The Taming of the Shrew to 
take first place in the mixed division.
Above: AEPi brothers dressed as Tin Man, Dorothy, and Scarecrow in their production of The Wizard of Oz.
Above: Second place in the sorority division went to Kappa 
Kappa Gamma sisters and pledges for Sweet Charity.Above: S
Above: Peter Pan fl 
Chairmans Award

---------------------------------------------------

March 15,1988The TartanPage 13
Right: A brother Masts out 
a melody during Sigma 
Nus Zoo Toons.
td place in the fraternity division with songs from The Mil
Above: KDR brothers and pledges shared the Chairmans Award with Kappa Sigma for their 
presentation of Roxanne.m flies in Kappa Sigs production of Peter Pan, which shared the 
rari with KDR.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanMarch 15,1988
The Tartan goes behind the scenes at Sing: Practice makes perfect
1988 Sing follows Carnegie tradition
Tartan file photo
The brothers of Sigma Nu, winners of the 1962 Greek 
Sing held at Carnegie Music Hall.
By HOWDY PIERCE
Tartan Features Co-Editor 
At 7:30 pm on April Fools Day, 
1944, an event called Greek Sing 
and Swing was held in the Urban 
Room on the top floor of the Wil
liam Penn Hotel in downtown Pitts
burgh. The event, already an annual 
occasion, was marked by a record 
low participation. Many fraternities 
were unable to enter the competition 
since a majority of their members 
were involved in World War II.
Still, the night was asuccess, with Delta Upsilon winning 
the fraternity division and two sororities, Gamma Gamma 
Gamma and Alpha Kappa Psi, tying for first place. At 9:00 
the competition was over, and the Urban Room became a 
ballroom as Brad Hunt and his orchestra took the stage to 
provide the music for the swing portion of the event. At 
11:00 a short intermission was held in which the winners 
were announced, after which Brad Hunt and his boys 
played until 1:00 am.
Five years later, The Carnegie Tartan announced in its 
March 30 issue that the years Greek Sing would be held 
on April 22,1949, a Friday. Greek Swing would follow in 
the Carnegie Tech gymnasium the night after, with Bill 
Leroys orchestra providing the music. One month later, in 
its April 27 issue, the newspaper ran an editorial titled
Define The Basis which called for some 
sound, determinable foundation that will 
make it possible for a majority of the audience 
to agree on who is best...and why.
1950 was the first year that three places were 
awarded in both the male and female divi
sions. Theta Xi and Kappa Alpha Theta won 
the event, with Kappa Sigma and Delta 
Gamma taking second places and Delta Upsi
lon and Delta Delta Delta coming in third.
In the fraternity division, recent years have
been marked by consistent top finishers. In the 
past three years, SAE has had two winning 
entries and one second place showing. Delta 
Upsilon has finished first, second, and third in ^ 
the same period, and Phi Kap has finished third 
twice and taken second once. The sorority 
division has seen a greater number of winners, 
although Kappa Alpha Theta has won two for 
the last three years.' And Theta Xi, this year a 
contestant in the all-male division, won the 
mixed division in both of the past two years.
Above: The brothers and pledges of Sigma Alpha Epsilon won last years Sing with their 
daasy pnsntatioa of Btrtim to Broadway.
#
By DARLENE FOZARD
Tartan Stajfwriter
When my editor asked me to talk to some fraternities and 
sororities about the practice that goes into Greek Sing each 
year, I had visions  pure, rapturous hallucinations of 
myself surrounded by muscle-bound Greeks, all vying for a 
brief mention in my Pulitzer-worthy article.
Then I woke up.
I hadn t realized what a big deal Greek Sing is. I was barred 
from sitting in on some practices, and refused pictures. The 
numbers each house puts on are a big secret and competition 
can get fierce.
The whole process starts back in October or November, 
when the fraternities and sororities draw numbers for the 
order of choice of the shows. Broadway musicals are popu
lar, but revised editions of pop songs are sometimes used, 
too. For example, this year the brothers at ATO performed 
their version of California Girls, entitled ATO Guys.
Once the selections are chosen, a chairperson or director is 
elected or appointed, and committees are set up. Suzanne 
Schelkopf, aTri-Delt, explained this to me, saying that there 
are often chairpersons or coordinators for each aspectthe 
music, the choreography, the costumes, scenery or props,
and the singing. The breakdown allows for problems to be ad
dressed directly, and relieves some of the tension for the chair
person. When asked if this approach worked as well in actual 
practices, she replied, If they get out of hand we set them 
straight, but theyre a good group and are very respectful of us 
(who are in charge).
I was able to catch a brief glimpse of the Tri-Delts at work, and 
it was all very professional. The president and director shouted 
encouragement, and the piece was begun, stopped and re
started twice, all within a five minute period.
The practices themselves vary in intensity and frequency 
from house to house. One of the sororities started practicing in 
February, as opposed to Kappa Sigma, which has held only six 
sessions  all in the past week and a half. The practices 
generally run two to three hours a session. Lyrics are usually 
taught first, then the choreography.
In the beginning, it takes the whole time to run through it 
once, said one Greek,but at the end you go through it over and 
over again. It gets boring.
Tim Gard and Tony Abenante of Kappa Sig said that it is 
difficult to get people to show up, and that there are many 
complaints about all the work involved. Its fun, but its also 
a pain in the ass, they said.
The message I heard from most of the Greeks was summed 
up by one brother: We try to make practice fun, cause if 
you dont, it gets really boring and redundant. To liven 
things up, lyrics are sometimes replaced with rhyming 
obscenities, according to some members of Pilam.
Everyone involved with the house can participate. The 
majority of members are involved in some way, and those 
not participating sometimes frequent the practices, offering 
moral support.
Moose Shaw of ATO points out that Greek Sing offers a 
chance to show the individuality of each house, and fosters 
intimacy among the members of the frat, and a competitive 
spirit among all the fraternities.
Many of the chairpersons I talked to agreed that the 
bonding that occurs from working together overrides the 
bickering ancLtemper flare-ups which are bound to happen.
Is it all worth it? John Frazzini of Sigma Tau Gamma said, 
Its a lot of hard work, and sometimes you just want to give 
it up because you do the same thing over and over again. But 
when youre up there on the stage at Carnegie Music Hall, 
you forget about all those horrible rehearsals and its all 
worthwhile.
And its all for a worthy cause.
Left: A Kappa Kappa Gamma sister accepts the winaiag trophy from the 1953 Greek Sm*
Above: Kappa Alpha Theta sisters give Sarah Fay, chairman of their production of Anything Goes, a hand during practice and later at Greek Sing.
photos by Jeff Rosenblum

---------------------------------------------------

March 15,1988The TartanPage 15
Above: Senior Greg Phillips
plays the lead in DL s produc
tion of Big River, which won first 
place in the overall and frater
nity competitions.
' AB Tech delivers the sights and sounds of Sing
. Best Sing yet, declares Chairman Livanos
By MICHAEL ROSE
Tartan Diversions Editor
Some aspects of college life cannot be ex
plained, but must be experienced to be fully 
understood. Among these are academic allnighters, parties that are longer than most 
warmed conflicts, and the unique endurance 
event known only by the obscure sobriquet of 
Greek Sing Tech.
Here in your hands you hold the Official 
Greek Sing Pullout Section. It contains the 
strict dope on who won, who lost, and how 
much fun was had by all. Still, my conscience 
drove me to volunteer one of my famed partici
patory journalistic efforts to this literary and 
photographic tour deforce, or de farce, as the 
case may be. Here I will tell the tale of the 
small band of talented maniacs called AB 
Tech, and their efforts above and beyond the 
call of ordinary human behavior.
AB Tech, also and far more descriptively 
known as Fly By Night Sound and Light, are 
responsible for providing high-quality techni
cal support to Activities Fee-supported or
ganizations, including but not limited to the 
Activities Board, for a minimal fee. Tech is 
also available on a hire-out basis for a nominal 
charge, to work at events sponsored by other 
campus organizations such as SDC and of 
course the Inter-Fraternity Council, sponsors 
of Greek Sing.
What most people simply dont realize is that 
all these events require a ridiculous number of 
person-hours to set up and take down. For an 
r' event such as (lets say) Greek Sing, AB Tech 
was at work from 7 pm to 10 pm Thursday 
night, and on Friday morning the listed start 
time was 4:30 am (!) and finish time was 
somewhere around 4:30 am as well - but on 
Saturday morning (!!!). Obviously this is not a 
casual, relaxing day at the Carnegie Music 
Hall. This is one of the less charming comers 
of No-Doz Hell, 
f*' I myself am an employee of AB Tech, and so 
I was among the yawning group that as
sembled in Skibo early Friday morning. Along 
with me were other Tech members, including 
Drama majors Michael Amper and Michael 
Sharon (Greek Sing lighting designer), AB 
Dance Chairman Rich Ford (as he says, 
experiencing life in the trenches; perhaps 
slumming would be better), freshman technicians Joshua Lynn and Frank Koss, AB Tech 
Chairman Frank Otremba, and freshman Mark 
Hamill, also known as the Trojan Man," 
simply because he is capable of heavy lifting to 
the extent that a superstition formed that he 
actually had ten other people inside him.
 partially collapsed, with the weight-bear
ing portion falling five feet in a fraction of a 
second. With me above it and Frank below it. 
a simple malfunction became potentially dan
gerous and hazardous to the equipment as 
well. Also, it is known that a case belonging to 
Tech has been stolen, containing over $1000 
worth of microphones and accessories. It's 
these sort of things that make you wonder 
about the worth of the enterprise.
Still, we had fun, and we got to see Sing from 
a unique perspective, behind the scenes and as 
part of the process. Its important to remember 
that a lot of people put a lot more work into 
Greek Sing than we did, and the responsibility 
for its success lies primarily with them. The 
main difference between most supporters of 
the event and AB Tech is that while their work 
took place over months, Techs complete job, 
requiring the full energies of ten or eleven 
people, was begun and done in 24 hours. 
Moreover, Tech had to be back at work once 
again on Saturday night for Greek Swing, and 
on Sunday for the Spirit/AB Fashon Show  
no rest for the weary.
Now, if you'll excuse me, I really need to 
get a little... need some... just a nap... little 
... sleep...zzzzzzzzzzz.
By JUDY HARABURDA
Tartan Features Co-Editor
It was definitively the best Greek Sing'' yet 
for Greek Sing chairman John Livanos. The 
best thing about Greek Sing, he said, was that 
the Greeks got a chance to contribute to the 
campus and Pittsburgh community, negating 
^ the bad image fraternities generally have. 
^ Livanos also enjoyed working with Greek 
Sing assistant Jill Dorson and Greek Swing 
chair Pat Fall. Livanos was appointed chair
man about a year ago, but serious planning 
started in mid-October and actual practices for 
the fratemitites began at the start of the Spring 
semester.
He felt that individual houses turned in ex^ traordinary performancestheir personal 
^ * bests. This may be because organizers held in
dividual conferences with houses to get a bet
ter overall perspective on Greek Sing and to 
encourage all houses to participate.
Unfortunately, as emcee, Livanos did not get 
to see most of the performances but he did get 
to see Edye Tarbox, who had earlier agreed to 
appear, but was contacted only one hour be
fore the show.
f
Greek Sing Chairman John Livanos, Assistant Greek Sing Chairman Jill Dorson, and Greek Swing Chairman Pat Fall helped make 
Greek Sing 88 a success, raising nearly $5000 so far for the Big Brother/Big Sister program coming to campus.
The Big Brother/Big Sister program was se
lected as Greek Sings charity because the 
organizers wanted the audience to walk away 
remembering what the charity was. In addi
tion, SAE brother Fred Goff was working on 
establishing a Big Brother/Big Sister program
on campus. The concept of a big brother/little 
brother relationship is also one familiar to and 
important to the Greeks.
As for improvements, Livanos hopes Greek 
Sing will become more oriented toward the 
campus and Pittsburgh community. In addi
tion, since 700 more tickets could have been 
sold easily, a larger hall needs to be found.
Overall. Greek Sing was a resounding sucess, raising nearly $5000 (all the receipts 
arent in yet) for the Big Brother/Big Sister 
program coming to campus.
photo by Andy Gillespie
Above (left to right): Tech Chairman Junior Frank Otremba and Freshman Frank Koss 
at the controls of the TAC Scorpion sound mixing console, preparing for Sing.
We faced a somewhat daunting task. Basi
cally, a few tons of lighting and sound equip
ment that we had loaded the night before into 
a rental truck had to be transported to and 
installed in the Carnegie Music Hall, with a 
working system up and running by the time the 
first performers came to the hall to rehearse. 
This was to be accomplished between the 
hours of 4:30 and 9:30 am. Sure, no problem.
In and out, under cover of darkness, never 
staying in one place long enough for the au
thorities to catch up with us; AB Tech is 
adventure for people who like to play with 
large amounts of electricity, to say nothing of 
really big sound systems, lots of lights and 
diesel trucks. There is a thrill of constant 
battle, mostly against the clock, Murphys 
law, danger and physics. Things can fall down, 
blow up, short out or simply not work, but our 
job is to prevent these occurrences.
As we progressed through our longest day, 
fatigue toxins began to take their toll. It's fine 
and fun to be punchy and drowsy, but when 
you're trying to manhandle a $13,000, two 
hundred seventy pound sound console onto a 
rickety table, a slip or mistake can have un
pleasant consequences. We tried to keep alert 
by periodic food and rest breaks. Still, by
showtime everyone was off a bit - conven
iently enough, there isnt a lot to do during the 
actual performance for most people on Tech. 
Only the lighting and sound operators and our 
stagehands were busy during the show, giving 
the rest of us a chance to rest up and enjoy the 
show while we thought about getting every
thing out of there afterward and back to Skibo.
The clean-up, or strike, is the least pleasant 
part of a Tech event. Everyone is completely 
zonked, the adrenaline rush from the show 
having worn off in a big way. For Sing, this 
effect was compounded by the unfamiliar 
surroundings, the intense crowds at the show, 
and the extreme length of the day and lateness 
of the strike. Every piece of cable and bit of 
equipment, from the tiny microphone clips to 
the massive power feeders and mixing con
sole, must be accounted for and packed away 
in the bitterly cold truck. Thats another prob
lem  when you work early in the morning or 
late at night outdoors, it gets very cold and 
your hands rapidly become painful and 
scraped from carrying the heavy metal pieces.
Sometimes things dont quite go exactly as 
planned. For example, during the setup early 
Friday morning, one of the light trees  a 
semi-portable support for lighting instruments

---------------------------------------------------

l1P.77gR 4P s7a7cU4 2P.T2 AUgRtttSing helps Big Brother program
Bv JUDY HARABURDA
Tartan Features Co-Editor
Have you ever thought of being a big 
brother to someone who really needs your 
friendship and attention? Sure, it requires a 
rigorous screening process. Sure, it de
mands commitment and responsibilility. 
But your friendship could have a dramatic 
impact on the life of a child.
This year the proceeds of Greek Sing, 
which have so far totalled approximately 
$5000, will go to help establish a Big 
Brother/Big Sister program on campus, 
tailored to the schedule of college students. 
At Greek Sing, some of the children in
volved in the Big Brother/Big Sister pro
gram, along with members of Sigma Alpha 
Iota, the women's honorary music society, 
presented "With a Little Help from My 
Friends." Greek Sing chairman John Liva
nos hopes that all the participants, as well as 
the audience, went away from the perform
ances with a good feeling from helping 
establish a program as rewarding as the Big 
Brother/Big Sisters.
Last November, SAE brother Fred Goff, 
Student Coordinator of the Big Brother/Big 
Sister program coming to Carnegie Mel
lon, and Dr. Iris Nahemow, Executive Di
rector of Big Brothers of Greater Pitts
burgh, held an organizational meeting.
For about four or five hours every Satur
day during the school year, each big and 
little brother will spend time together and 
do fun things. The cost of transporting the
children to CMU will hopefully be subsi
dized by a grant pending and some of the 
proceeds from the Greek Sing competi
tion.
Goff plans to arrange some group activi
ties for children and their bigs, but the em
phasis of the program is definitely on build
ing a one-to-one relationship. Regularity is 
key. Bigs are strongly encouraged to keep 
in touch with the child during the summer, 
vacations, finals week and other times the 
program will not run.
The children involved enter the program 
between seven and thirteen years of age 
and leave the program when they reach 
eighteen. They generally come from oneparent homes and may need additional 
motivation in school, making friends or 
getting along with their families. The point 
is they do not feel as good about themselves 
as they could, emphasizes Dr. Nehemow.
Alan Hayden, a CMU grad student, de
scribed his experiences with the Big 
Brother/Big Sister program in Pittsburgh. 
He has been matched for over a year to a 10- 
year-old boy in Mount Lebanon.
The first few meetings were awkward but 
he felt as if he already knew the child 
because of the in-depth interviews. They 
went to playgrounds, skating, rafting, 
played tag, played tag, and then played tag 
some more.
If you would like to become a big brother, 
please contact Fred Goff at 268-5306 or 
Tom Thompkins at 621-6100.
photo by Andy Gillespie
Above: Members of Sigma Alpha Iota, an honorary women's music society, and little 
brothers and sisters sing With a Little Help from My Friends in a special 
presentation following intermission.
Above: ATO
brothers flex 
their muscles and 
vocal cords to the 
tunes of An ATO 
Comedy Skit.
photo by Jeff Rosenblum
Above: Kappa Alpha Theta sisters sang and danced their way to the 
top of the sorority division with their production of Anything Goes.
photo by Andy Gillespie
Above: Members of Phi Kap staged an adaptation of the Broadway hit Les Miserables.
"
1. Beta Theta Pi...........New York, New York
2. Alpha Tau Omega ...The ATO Comedy Skit
3. Sigma Tau Gamma...Little Shop of Horrors
4. Alpha Epsilon Pi...........The Wizard of Oz
5. Sigma Nu..................................Zoo Toons
6. Pi Lambda Phi....A Frank Loesser Medley
Sigma..............................Peter Pan
Rho.........................Roxanne
........Anything Goes
. . ... .. .,.--------------------- ------------------
10. Delta Tau Delta....The Taming of the Shrew
11. Theta Xi.............................................Chess
12. Delta Gamma.....................................Nine
13.Delta Delta Delta............................Cabaret
14. Chi Omega............................Pajama Game
15.DeIta Upsilon..............................Big River
16. Sigma Alpha Epsilon...............The Mikado
17. Phi Kappa Theta...............Les Miserables
18.Kappa Kappa Gamma.........Sweet Charity
Page 16The TartanMarch 15,1988

---------------------------------------------------

Features
Sorry, Ocifer, I didnt...
By ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Tartan Photography Editor
When a policeman pulls you over and 
says, You know, that was a school zone 
back there, and the speed limit in a school 
zone is 15 miles per hour. Can I see your 
license... Is your response:
a) to cry
b) I didnt know it was a school zone.
c) Can I charge this on my Visa?
d) Dont you have something better to 
do than chase 
speeders?
e) Would a 
twenty help me?
f) Please, offi
cer, dont report 
me... this cant go 
on my record... Ill 
lose my license... 
daddyll beat 
me... etc.
g) I really tried 
to slow down, but 
my brakes didnt 
work. When you 
flagged me, my 
brakes started 
working again. I 
was so scared. You saved my life...
h) Im sorry officer. It was my fault.
These are only a few of the many excuses
that Pittsburgh Police Officers Lattner and 
Loeffler have heard in their career in the 
Traffic division.
Last week as I was walking along Fifth 
Avenue, I passed a row of about seven cars 
pulled over and two police officers going 
from car to car examining licenses.
It seems that there is a school zone on 
Fifth Avenue, about a block down from 
Mudge House, in front of Central Catholic 
High School. It also seems that not many 
local drivers know (or care) what a school
photo by Albrecht Powell
Officer Lattner explains school zone.
zone is. The speed zones are put up to 
protect the kids coming in and out of the 
school. There are cars doing 40, 50, even 
higher...its just dangerous, said officer 
Loeffler.
On any given day, the two officers who 
were flagging motorists over give out up to 
25 tickets in a period of a little over an hour. 
They showed me how to estimate the speed 
of cars. (Speed zones are the only time po
licemen need not use timing devices). I 
picked out about 
15 cars in a minute 
doing what I 
thought was over 
15 mph each way. 
The officers just 
cant possibly stop 
each car, but they 
try to stop a lot. 
The sad thing is 
that they dont 
care. Lattner 
said, We caught 
one guy in the 
morning speeding 
through a school 
zone, and some
one else caught 
him through the same zone that night.
Watching these two officers in the slush 
and snow for the hour they were monitoring 
Fifth Avenue, I figured they were just doing 
their job. The startling thing is, though, they 
were volunteering to do this on their day off.
By the way, if you picked answers a-g, you 
would probably get a ticket. Lying gets 
you into deep [yogurt], emphasized 
Lattner to one gentleman who was stopped 
for speeding, and ended up getting his car 
towed for driving without a license. A tip 
for all drivers: If youre stopped, admit you 
were wrong, and maybe, just maybe, youll 
wind up with only a slap on the wrist.
Association of College Entrepreneurs tells 
young people what it takes to succeed
One third of all new companies are started by 
people under 30; many of them still in their 
teens. Heres what the Association of Colle
giate Entrepreneurs says it takes for young 
people to succeed in business: 
Self-confidence 
A high level of drive and energy 
Ability to deal with uncertainty, confusion 
Persistence 
Ability to set goals 
An independent nature 
Support and help from parents 
Ever thought you were too young to start a 
business? Those attending the the fifth annual 
convention of the Association of Collegiate 
Entrepreneurs (ACE) in Washington, D.C.
would beg to differ. Some at the convention to 
honor the top 100 entrepreneurs under thirty 
had started their business at as young as 8 years 
old, and are now grossing over $1 million.
A 19-year-old from Los Angeles had an idea 
for a retainer cleaner, so he invested $1000 of 
his own money in a prototype. He hired a 
chemist to make the actual formula, an artist to 
design a box, and a local manufacturer to put 
it all together. In three years he sold the prod
uct to Colgate-Palmolive for an amount he 
wouldnt disclose, but he said he now owns 
about $3.5 million in real estate.
At the age of 15, Robert Lewis Dean II bor
rowed $ 1,500 from his parents, bought a 1972
Cadillac, taught himself how to fix it up, and 
sold it for a profit Since then he has started a 
series of businesses, selling one several years 
ago for $100,000. He now is starting a com
pany called Limonet Inc., a national limousine 
franchise. He is now 19, and says that within 
two years he hopes to be grossing about $165 
million. His company was rated by Venture 
magazines the best idea for a new business, 
with the local franchise rights available to 
anyone with $200,000.
John Thome from our own GSIA spoke at the 
conference in a professional seminar on rais
ing money to support entrepreneurship pro
grams and also participated in a panel discuss
ing the opportunities and challenges of en
trepreneurship education. Professor Thome 
now teaches an entrepreneurship class every 
Wednesday in GSIA and is chairman of the 
Enterprise Corporation, a local venture capital 
company.
Six members of Carnegie Mellons Univer
sity Entrepreneurial Association attended the 
four day convention, one of them, Mike Frank, 
was even nominated for a top 100 spot. Thanks 
to generous grants from both President Cyert 
and John Thome (care of the Enterprise Cor
poration), the six were able to attend such 
seminars as Creating Ideas, Realizing the 
College Market Potential, Sources of Early 
Stage Financing, Service Businesses & Pro
fessional Image, and Secrets & Successes of 
Investing in the Stock Market.
The winner of the weekend  the top entre
preneur under 30 as measured by gross sales
 was Michael Dell of Dell Computers. His 
company makes and sells mail-order IBM PC 
clones and last year grossed over $ 160 million. 
Dell is 23.
If youre interested in joining the University 
Entrepreneurial Association, come by Skibo 
58 at 5:30 pm on Tuesdays, or call x3535. For 
more info, call David Bland, Vice President of 
the University Entrepreneurial Association, at 
x4998.
Ask Specs tells readers how to just say NO
Dear Specs,
What is a good way to say no when a guy 
asks you out?
Not Into Geeks
Dear Not,
Your best bet is to tell the truth. If someoneyou dont care for asks you for a date, simply 
tell him you would prefer not to. If he is 
belligerent, and demands an explanation, any 
of the following replies will suffice:
I. I cant. NOVA is on tonight.
2.1 cant. Someone on the football team al
ready asked me out.
Ask Sj
By Sara Flynn
3. Sorry. The football team asked me out.
4.1 cant. Im translating Judy Blume books 
for the Sandinistas.5.1 can 1.1 have a National Rifle Association 
meeting.1 6.1 cant. I have a steady girlfriend.
7.1 cant. I have hems to shorten.
8. Sorry. I've given up dating for Lent.
9. / think were going to have a Nuclear 
Winter starting Friday night and I want to stay 
at home.10.1 only date active Marxists.
11. I'm studying the Talmud all night.
12.1 cant. Im Sleeping over at Theta Xi.
13.1 can t. Im sleeping over at Theta Xi and 
Pika.
14.1 can 1.1 only go out with farm animals.
Sincerely,
Specs
Dear Specs,
I was recently dumped by a guy that I like. 
However, I have no bad feelings. In fact Im 
rather happy. Is there something wrong with 
me, or is it rather that there is something 
incredibly right with me?
Happily Rejected
Dear H. R.,
It is wonderful that you can remain un
daunted by the melancholy moments of life. 
Young love, or like, is often painful and par
ticularly sad when a separation ensues. Warm 
feelings towards the young man who 
dumped you reveals a very optimistic out
look on your part.
Make sure that you dont inform the young 
man of your elation at his decision to break it 
off. Not only is it rude to appear delighted that 
he no longer wants you as his sweetheart, it is 
also completely inappropriate. He will won
der why you didn t confess your dying love of 
him sooner. Puzzling over your ecstatic re
sponse to his sober statement might cause him 
to undergo mental strain.
She likes me, yet she's happy. 1 dont want 
to be with her. Does she like someone else? 
Does she dislike me romantically? Are my 
kisses dull?" Hjc might think you want to 
worship him from afar, out of a strict personal 
belief in chastity that you have recently ac
quired. Of course, if the latter is the case tell 
him so immediately. The Joan of Arc mode of 
martyrdom is tres chic' in dating right now. 
Just be careful that you dont take this
happy attitude too far. Giggling at the 11 
oclock news and snickering through finals 
week might cause your friends to worry. They 
could grow to think that you live life either with 
callous disregard or as Dorothy from the 
Wizard of Oz. Not everybody can jubilantly 
bounce through difficulties and problems 
gracefully.
If you find yourself associating Economics 
class with the Magic Garden youre in trouble. 
There is more to life than an optimal point 
between pizza and beer. If you don  tfeel a little 
sadness at losing friends now, you could turn 
into a cultural oddity by the time youre thirty.
There is more to life 
than an optimal point 
between pizza and 
beer.
Later in life nieces and nephews will gather 
around you during funerals and examine your 
grin. You will rue the day you abandoned 
sadness.
Sincerely,
Specs
Dear Specs,
What do you do if youre in love with a rock 
star?
Falling for MTV
Dear MTV,
This is not Tiger Beat. Nor is this column 
Teen Beat. Perhaps you are obsessed with the 
inaccessible, in which case there is no solution 
short of the John Hinkley Guide to Getting
Noticed.
Try to communicate with the object of your 
desire if this crush is invading your thoughts 
frequently. Lets say that you have these warm 
feelings for all the members of Run DMC 
simultaneously. You bought their delightful 
albums, hung pictures of their sanguine grins 
about your room and heard all their concerts. 
Write a note and tell them you have enjoyed 
their music and would like to marry into the 
band. Impress upon them your originality. 
Here is an example of effective fan mail:
Yo, you are the freshest of the fresh
there is no fresher
Masters of jam masters
there are none nastier
But what-you-need
what-you-need
Is a little jam mistress.
Stop looking for the perfect beat 
Get hip and groove with those feet.
Skip Hip hop and give me a kiss. 
What-you-need 
What-you-need (refrain)
I'm not ugly. I'm not old 
1 know about good Jamaican Gold 
Ill mix your scratches 
Scratch your mixes 
Varnish your yacht
And light your matches (Mattress may be 
substituted here if desired)
Do-the-deed 
What-you-need 
Is to give a hand
To the Deffest babe outside the band.
Then make sure to include a stamped, selfaddressed envelope to insure a reply.
Sincerely,
Specs

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanMarch 15,1988
Dealing with drug 
and alcohol problems
Question: Ive heard that there is a committee 
on campus attempting to deal with drug and 
alcohol problems. Do you have any informa
tion on this group?
Answer: The Committee on Alcohol and 
Drug Education, formed in May of 1987, aims 
to assess campus education needs about sub
stance abuse, to recommend and support pro
gramming and to establish a referral network 
for students who need help with substance 
abuse behavior. Originally composed of ad
ministrators from Counseling, Health Serv
ices, Health Education and Student Affairs, 
the membership has been opened to include 
students and faculty. The hope is that eventu
ally CADE will be a student-run committee 
and the administrators and faculty will serve in 
an advisory capacity only.
The major thrust at this time is to establish a 
system of peer support and referral for stu
dents with substance abuse problems. In order 
to do this the committee is seeking more stu
dent volunteers to offer input on how the 
system should be structured and how it should 
operate. Students recovering from alcohol and 
drug dependence can offer critical expertise.
Roseanne Hickey of the Counseling Center 
is offering a session called Dealing with the 
Drinker on March 17 at Noon in the Wherrett 
Room. Anyone with a drinking problem will 
find this program valuable.
For more info on CADE, contact Donna Morosky at x2075.
You may already have won 60 Seconds Dream Contest
Hi there. I have a problem, and maybe you 
can help me. Here is the transcript of a recur
ring dream that I have been having. I have no 
idea what it means. Do you?
Read the dream and write your interpreta
tion in five hundred words or less on ordinary
8 1/2x11 paper (please type or print legibly).
60 Seconds
with Bob Glickstein
Include your name and telephone number. 
Submit your entry to Bobs Dream Contest 
c/o The Tartan at the Skibo Information Desk 
by 5pm on Wednesday, March 23rd. The en
tries will be judged by members of The Tartan 
staff on the basis of originality, humor, feasi
bility (within the constraints of dream inter
pretation) and lots of other stuff. The winning 
entry will be published in an April issue of The 
Tartan, and the winning dream-interpreter will 
receive a $25 cash prize, thereby relieving him 
or her of the necessity of eating in a UDS 
establishment for a few days.
5UR.PRI 5 El
WE'RE 
T0
TEP. THAT'S THE TRUTH.
AU- ACOBTT&&
Qaxcerr Taa April rTtn
WILL- Vl4>IT FCfc TtteSLEEPIMQ KMpe*
MOST NOIJ
YbUP-NAMe____________________________FHOME.__________
e0X #=-.___________XXXzw/fi>0bs\,________________________
VOLIK. MATO?.TDK WlliSO TO
__APRIL 1(7-1 ! _ AFR1L 24-26
It> PE HCWf&P To esOKT PKflR.i> 
_APRIL/CMI -JmtZA-23
117? klARylBK-HALL-ltj
Please keep your interpretations clean. 
(This may be difficult for those pursuing a 
Freudian interpretation.)
Scene: The interior of an old, poorly 
maintained Cadillac at night, speeding 
down a fairly empty highway. Lights shine 
into the car and pass by at regular intervals, 
forming bizarre changing shadows. This 
effect is occasionally augmented by the 
passing of another car, whose headlights 
throw even weirder shadows which creep 
along the interior of the Cadillac.
At the wheel is VIRGIL, and seated be
side him is his wife LUCILLE. They are a 
middle-aged couple of indeterminate skin 
color, looking tired and worn, except that at 
the moment Lucille appears unusually 
animated. Virgils eyes are glued to the 
road ahead. They speak with provincial 
Pennsylvania accents.
Lucille: At the next rest stop pull over, I 
gotta go.
Virgil: Okay.
Lucille: I was telling Nigel about your 
promotion. He was trying to act blase (she 
pronounces this by placing her fingers 
lightly on her chest and assuming a French 
accent), you know, but I think he was really 
impressed.
Virgil: Hmm.
Lucille: You undersold yourself. Youre 
too modest. Blow your own horn some
time.
Virgil: Naw (pause) If I do good enough 
work Ill be noticed.
Lucille: Now thats the wrong attitude.
Virgil: Its a good attitude.
Lucille: No
Virgil: I just got promoted, didnt I?
Lucille: Yeah, but after how long?
Virgil: Well...enough time to get estab
lished in the company. Enough time for my 
work to be appreciated.
Lucille: Well, see, thats the wrong atti
tude. The Johnson boy was just promoted 
and he was on the job for only two and a half 
months. He blows his own horn. Thats 
how he got it.
Virgil: Which Johnson boy?
Lucille: Tom and Florence. Their boy.
Virgil: Oh! What are youhes a busboy! What kind of comparison is
Lucille: Now hes a waiter. Two and a 
half months.
Virgil: Lucille, I think busboy to waiter is 
a little different than shop foreman to field 
supervisor.
(This stops Lucille is mid-retort.)
Lucille (after a pause): You know a po
liceman is safer than a waiter.
Virgil: What?
Lucille: A policeman is safer than a 
waiter.
Virgil: A policeman is safer than a
waiter?
Lucille: Thats what they say. And be
lieve me, they know.
Virgil: What has that got to do with 
anything?
Lucille: Virgil! Oh no, you just missed a 
rest stop.
Virgil: Huh?
Lucille: We just drove past a rest stop. I 
gotta go.
Virgil: Sorry. You want me to pull over? 
Lucille: No, its not an emergency yet. 
Virgil: Well stop at the next gas station. 
(pause)
Lucille: I have a lot to do in the next few 
days. Im gonna be very busy.
Virgil: Like what?
Lucille: I have a church group, an office 
party that Im helping organize, I have to go 
to the bank and find out about our loan...a 
lot of things. Another church group...Im 
gonna have full days on Monday, Thursday 
and next Tuesday.
Virgil (mildly interested): Which thing is 
when?
Lucill t(failing to parse): Which thing is 
when? (puzzled pause) Oh, you mean 
what thing is what.
(Virgil looks over at her in a confused 
way.)
Uh, Monday is the bank, Monday night is 
the church group...uh, Thursday is the of
fice party, and next Tuesday is another 
church group.
Virgil: Hm.
(pause)
Lucille (reading from a sign): Next rest 
area seventeen miles.
Virgil: We could pull off the highway 
and look for a gas station.
Lucille: Naw...
Virgil: If you really wanted to. We could 
probably find an all-night Mobile or 
Exxon or something.
Lucille (amused): Mobile?
Virgil (with a sidelong glance, suspect
ing he s made some mistake) Yeah...
Lucille (correcting him): Mobil. A 
mobile is something kids build.
Virgil (defensively): Well that doesnt 
make much sense. After all, were in an 
auto mobile.
Lucille (snorting smugly): Youre really 
dumb, you know that?
Virgil: Oh, come on, it was an honest 
mistake
Lucille: Everyone knows its Mobil. 
Virgil: Big deal...
(pause while Lucille overcomes her 
snorting, leaving Virgil slightly annoyed) 
Lucille (reading for another sign): Next 
rest area thirteen miles.
Virgil: Four miles? Thats it?
(No response.)
Kite Flight 88 takes off
PITTSBURGHCraftsmanship, creativity, 
and skill are all important factors in kite 
flying.
For individuals who can successfully com
bine these talents and to anybody who has 
ever wanted to go fly a kite, Citiparks is 
sponsoring Kite Flight  88, a kite contest on 
Saturday, April 16.
Registration at the Schenley Park Meadow, 
next to the ice rink on Overlook Drive, begins 
at 1 lam and the kite flying competition begins 
at noon.
Home-made or store-bought kites are eli
gible for competition in what promises to be
one of the most colorful events in the skies 
over Pittsburgh.
Trophies will be awarded in the following^ 
areas for home-made kites: best constructed,' 
best decorated, and highest flying. For store 
bought kites, the award categories are: most 
unusual and highest flying. All categories will 
have a first, second, and third place winner.
A Kite Workshop will be held on Friday, 
March 25, 6pm, at the South Side Market 
House, 12th and South Bingham Streets, for 
anyone interested in constructing a home-, 
made kite. Materials and instruction will be 
available.
The Kite Contest is open to all ages, from 
those young in age to those young at heart. A 
free Kite Flight 88 patch will be given to the 
first 150 participants' age 12 and under, who 
register. The rain date is April 23. For more in
formation, call Citiparks at 488-8390.

---------------------------------------------------

March 15,1988The TartanPage 19
FINANCIAL
AID
AP PLICATIONS
We strongly advise that you pick up apnlication
materials
IMMEDIATELY
FILING DEADLILNE: MAY 1, 1988
u1Pp the, O7PO27 3CP s1PEnC4 rPE xPp71apUaWtt
SARC links students and alumni
Are now available in the Financial Aid Office 
On the second floor of Warner Hall
CITY LIGHTS

Other|Viewsg::: a 
photography: series 
by Anne Fishbein, 
shows through 
March 22: in the 
CMU Hewlett Gal
lery in CPA.
?The Pittsburgh 
Conveato 
will be the site of the Pittsburgh Home and 
Garden Show through March 20. In addi
tion to over 600 exhibits the show will 
feature continuous seminars and demon - 
stations*: For more info call 261-2883. 
Wednesday, March 16 .
>The Ez Pinza Council for American 
 Sih^ cif Opera and Pitts Department of 
Mime will present an evening of operatic 
arias* duets* and scenes at &30 pm in the 
BeOefieM Annex Auditorium. For more 
information call 624-419 L 
Thursday, March 17 
*Akram Midam,DeanofCFA*wiUpresent 
"A History of Russian Ballet in conjunct 
from 10:00 am~2:0Q 
pin at thePitt^urgh Ballet Theatre Build
ing* The cost for the program is $20. For 
res^atas; bait Peace Links at471-0302;
Medicine w ill speak on Regulation o 
Behavior by Representational Memory;? 
Rote of Preftontal Cortex  at ^6 pin in 
|the-Adisoa^^ CMtTsi
DeparimentofPsychology.Ftee.
WTt&; l^;J%intergar^n. will be the site 
wham Tini Eyerman, a jazz fusion artist 
performs noon.
Sunday, March 20
A gathering to commemorate the martyr
dom of Archbishop Oscar Romero, to learn
about the cu 
situatoinElSalvadort and to pray for 
peace will be held at 
7:00 pm at the Com
munity of Reconcili
ation at Fifth Avenue 
and Bellefield 
Street. For more info 
call 361-3022. |
Monday, March 21
Dr. William Uricchio, chair of Carlows 
Biology Department, will address how 
susceptible humans are to STD in a lecture 
entitled Hie Closer You Get the Faster I 
Run to be presented at noon on the ninth 
floor of Kaufmanns Downtown. Free. 
Maher Awwad will present a noon brief
ing entitled Peace in the Middle East: A 
Palestinian Perspective. Sponsored by the 
World Affairs Council of Pittsburgh. Call 
281-7970 for more info or to register. 
Tuesday, March 22
Guenther Kaunzinger, aGerman organist, 
will play the Beckerath Organ in St. Pauls 
Cathedral at 8:30 pm as a part of the series 
marking the twenty-fifth anniversary of the 
dedication of the famous organ. Free. 
1988 Trade Act What Congress Intends 
 What Business Can Expect, a talk by 
Ambassador Alan F. Holmer, Deputy U.S. 
Trade Representative, will be held at 430 
pm at the Pittsburgh Press Club, 300 Sixth 
Avenue. Sponsored by the World Affairs 
Council of Pittsburgh. Cost is $12. For 
reservations or mote info call 281-7970. 
Wednesday, March 23 
Today's Contemporary Art Scene in die 
pSSR^|k lecture by Dr. EknaKometchuk, 
will be held at noon in the Downtown 
YMCA. Sponsored by Peace Links. Free.
FOR 1988-1989
By JOHN KYRIACOPOULUS
Tartan Staffwriter 
The Student Alumni Relations Committee 
(S ARC) is a liaison between the student body 
and the CMU alumni. Their prime directive is 
to stimulate effective communication between 
the two groups. Having been officially estab#shed at CMU for 10 years, SARC remains 
one of the more notable organizations, al
though one that is not well known.
The organization is comprised of twenty 
students who act as an extension of the Alumni 
Association. They are responsible for a num
ber of student-related events, but their most 
prominent programs are the Carnegie Ex
change and Alumni in Action.
 The Carnegie Exchange, a relatively new 
program that began last September, is de
signed to bring students and Alumni together 
to discuss important career-related matters. 
SARC committee members contact alumni in 
the Pittsburgh area and ask them if they would 
host five ran
domly selected 
students from a 
^particular major.
The program 
runs about once 
a month right 
now, but SARC 
is hopeful that it 
will be able to 
increase it to 
once a week in 
m the future.
Alumni in Ac
tion is a similar 
program, except 
reversed. Here SARC members bring alumni 
back to their departments to attend classes,
give lectures, or to simply talk with students 
over lunch. It is hoped that students will gain 
helpful information and insight as to their 
professional possibilities.
SARCs link with the alumni extends be
yond these two programs, however. They help 
students find jobs and apartments, and help 
them to relocate in new cities primarily 
through their connections with the alumni. 
Other SARC responsibilities include coordi
nating student activity at Homecoming. They 
prepared months in advance for such events as 
the Tricycle Races, annual 5K race, and 
Alumni tours. They also coordinate the Zero 
Year Reunion, a lunch held for the seniors in 
which the faculty and the administration cook 
the food. The Senior Banquet, which has been 
cancelled, was also their doing. In lieu of the 
banquet is a gift given to each senior at gradu
ation. They are not at liberty to disclose what 
it is at this time.
SARC has a selective membership process 
and only accepts 
applications in 
spring. Inter
views are con
ducted in April. 
Anyone inter
ested may attend 
an Open House 
in Scotland 
Yard on Mon
day, March 21 
from 4:00-6:00.
SARC is proud 
of its success and 
hopes to con
tinue in the same 
manner in the future. For more information 
call x2060.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanMarch 15,1988
iTa 4C7 Nww :E.R 2Uh7 EO 4P 4C7 CkO7f
High hopes for Pirate hardball
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Contributing Editor
The Pittsburgh Pirates are in danger of be
coming victims of their own expectations.
Fueled mainly by the Bucs superheated 
stretch drive last September, the symptoms of 
pennant fever, a disease absent for a half
decade at Pirate spring training, are manifest
ing themselves in Bradenton. Nobody knows 
how well the Pirates are going to do this year, 
but that hasnt stopped people from guessing. 
Sports writers have been predicting finishes as 
high as second place.
Expectations like this can frighten a young 
team like the Pirates. Four of the squads nine 
projected opening day starters have been in the 
major leagues a year or less. Of the other five, 
only leftfielder Andy Van Slyke has played 
three years or more in the majors. This situ
ation leads to the classic half-full, half-empty 
scenario. You can look at the Pirates as a 
young, improving team, full of untapped and 
unimagined potential. Or you can see the Bucs 
as unproven and unreliable, pretenders to the 
contenders.
Naturally, most people in Pittsburgh have 
taken the more positive view. But if the team 
falters, it could be a disastrous blow to the 
confidence the Pirates have worked to build up 
within the team and the community.
A collapse is not totally beyond the realm of 
possibility. What if Mike Dunne becomes 
another Jose DeLeon, following an awesome 
rookie season with a putrid sophomore show
ing? What if Darnell Coles resumes the type of 
behavior (and poor batting) that got him 
shipped out of Detroit? What if Van Slyke gets 
hurt? Subtract those three players, all of whom 
the Bucs are counting on heavily, and you have 
a team with sixth place written all over it.
The preceding scenario illustrates the key to 
Pirate success: all of the players must play as 
well a they did in the 1987 stretch drive every 
day. But, for example, if Doug Drabek returns 
to his pre-All Star break form (1 win, 8 losses), 
it could be a long season.
So far, the prognosis for 1988 looks positive. 
The Pirates have compiled a 6-3 mark so far in 
spring training contests. A surprise has been 
the pitching, which has been even stronger 
than expected.
The southpaws, in particular, have been im
pressive. Manager Jim Leyland wants at least 
one lefthanded starter to go with his otherwise 
righthanded starting rotation of Mike Dunne, 
Doug Drabek, Brian Fisher, and Bob Walk. So 
far Bob Patterson and Bob Kipper are pitching 
strongly in pursuit of the spot, with competi
tion coming from John Smiley, who could be 
converted from a reliever. This does not bode
well for Mike Bielecki and Vincente Palacios, 
righties who had good shots at that final spot 
coming into spring training.
But once the roster gets settled, itll be up to 
the 24 remaining players to prove that the 
Pirates were no fluke last fall.
Notes: The Pirates open the season on the 
evening of April 5 in Philadelphia. After three 
games versus the Phils and a trio in St. Louis, 
the Bucs return the favor by hosting Philadel
phia in the home opener on April 11 at 6:35. 
The game could be a good way to kick off your 
Spring Carnival weekend.
Pkme 363
16 INCHPEPPERONI PIZZA $4.tax
Saturday 11 am - 2 am
Sunday through Friday 3 pm - 2 am
WIN MORE THAN $15 IN 
A NEGOTIATION GAME!
Upper level & Graduate Students:
Negotiate successfully and you could 
earn more than $15 for your solution to 
this inventory control problem.
The game runs evenings and week
ends, takes an hour to an hour and a 
half, and is played in groups of three. 
Send computer mail to ab2p@te, or 
leave a message at 421-3194 stating 
when you can play and you will be con
tacted.
This research is under the supervisionof 
Professory G. Fischer, Department of Social 
and Decision Sciences. All participants will 
receive at least $5, most earn more.
mwt at 
Co mpiiea jf P
NCAA FIELD SET
The 64 team field that will embark on 
the road to the NCAA Division I Na
tional Basketball Championship was 
announced last Sunday. Temple, Okla
homa, Arizona, and Purdue Universi
ties were all given number one rankings 
in their brackets. Pitt was sent to the 
Midwest regional, where they will be 
the second seed and face Eastern Michi
gan in the first round.
ALL-AMERICANS NAMED
The 1987-88 NCAA Division I AllAmerican basketball team was an
nounced last week. Leading the list of 
honorees was Kansas Danny Manning 
and Bradleys Hersey Hawkins. Also on 
the first team were Gary Grant of Michi
gan, J.R. Reid of North Carolina, and 
Arizonas Sean Elliot.
SAMPSON INJURED
In pro basketball news, the Golden 
State Warriors center Ralph Sampson 
had arthroscopic surgery on his right 
knee last week. Sampson was traded 
from the Houston Rockets in a block
buster trade last December that sent 
Sleepy Floyd to the Rockets.
MOOG TO BOSTON
Team Canadas goaltender Andy 
Moog, who was a holdout with the 
Edmonton Oilers this season, was 
traded to the Boston Bruins last week 
for two players and future considera
tions. Moog was scheduled to come to 
Pittsburgh in the trade that brought Paul 
Coffey to the Pens, but trade talks 
stalled at the last minute, and Moog was 
dealt to Boston.
PATRICK DIVISION TIGHT
The Patrick Division race heated up 
last week, with the Pittsburgh Penguins 
battling for a playoff spot. The Philadel
phia Flyers celebrated the return of their 
star Tim Kerr last week, in beating the 
Washington Capitals 5-2 to regain the 
Patrick Division lead.
TheCriticalEdge
INTERNSHIPS 
Designed For 
Your Success
London
Spring & Fall Semesters 
Summer Internships Feature Film Project
Courses & Internships for College Credit:Old Bailey, Parliament. Lloyds, barristers, solicitors, museums, 
newspapers, theater. BBC. public relations, banking, government.
--1Israel
Work & Study Tour 
Contact Janet KoHek. JO. Otr
 I156 Vfest 81 St. No 112 New York. NY 10024 
Toil free 800^0U-BRtT In NY State 212-724-0004
Philips Laboratories
Briardiff Manor, New York
If you're undecided about
what career step you should take
you should consider Philips Laboratories.
PHILIPS LABORATORIES, the research 
division of North American Philips Cor
poration, will be visitins your campus 
March 22,1988 (contact your Place
ment Office for additional information.)
North American Philips Corporation is 
a Fortune 100 company, with annual 
sales in excess of $4.5 billion, prominent 
in the design, manufacture and distribu
tion of consumer electronics, electronic 
components and scientific and profes
sional equipment, including medical in
strumentation and lighting systems.
PHILIPS LABORATORIES is seeking 
highly qualified scientists who have an 
MS or PhD in relevant disciplines to 
work in the fields of:
An equal opportunity employer M/F/H
 Materials Physics
 Solid State & Surface Physics
 CAD for Integrated Circuits
 Artificial Intelligence
 Robotics & Advanced 
Automation
 Microelectronics & VLSI Design
 Video Signal & Image Processing
 Advanced Television Systems
Affiliated with the worldwide Philips 
family of research laboratories, PHILIPS 
LABORATORIES offers immediate 
career opportunities within a growing 
international organization, which are 
professionally challenging, intellectually 
stimulating, and culturally enriching.
Philips has major European research 
laboratories in London, Paris, Aachen, 
Hamburg, Brussels and Eindhoven, The 
Netherlands.
Competitive salaries, a full benefits pro
gram, an attractive work place overlook
ing the Hudson River, and' peopleoriented management make working for 
PHILIPS LABORATORIES a rewarding 
opportunity.
If you are unable to see us during our 
visit, please send your resume to: 
Human Resources Representative, 
PHILIPS LABORATORIES, 345 Scar
borough Road, Briardiff Manor, NY 
10510.
North American 
Philips Corporation

---------------------------------------------------

March 15,1988The TartanPage 21
This weeks Athlete of the }Veek
'John Blackwood bids farewell
By JUDY GROSSMAN
Tartan Staffwriter 
Sometimes an athlete reaches his peak just 
when the final buzzer sounds. That was defi
nitely the case with Carnegie Mellons senior 
left wing John Blackwood.
# Though the Ice Tartans came up just short of 
the West Penn College Hockey Association 
(WPCHA) title, losing last week in the cham
pionship game to Gannon, 6-5, Blackwood 
was dazzling throughout the playoffs. He 
scored eight goals and recorded an assist in the 
Tartans three post-season contests, including 
a hat trick in the loss to Gannon.
My last game was a good one, Blackwood 
#>aid. I was depressed because we lost, yet I 
couldnt help but be happy with my perform
ance.
His performance during the playoffs 
wrapped up a memorable career for Black
wood. But the Tartans, despite Blackwoods 
two goals against IUP in the quarterfinals and 
hat trick versus Pitt in the semifinals, couldnt 
overcome Gannons first period, three-goal 
^onslaught to win the championship. The Gate
way H.S. alum earned PHI Player of the Game 
honors in both of the final two games.
When we played Pitt in the semis, we were 
all fired up because we wanted to beat them, 
and because we knew we could. We just came 
out real flat against Gannon, and they came 
right at us.
The senior from Monroeville recorded 12 
f goals and eight assists during the 14 game 
regular season. His 20 points and 12 goals 
were second only to senior center Greg Tim
mons, who scored a league-record 36 points 
and 28 goals.
One of my goals for this year was to beat
photo by Neil Greenblum
Blackwood scored 20 points this season.
Greg in the scoring race, said Blackwood. I 
pretty much knew hed win because he has a 
better shot and hes quicker than I am, but in 
the end, I didnt come out that far behind. I just 
wanted to prove that I could play with Greg, 
and I think the playoffs proved this.
One of several seniors on the team, Black
wood said he felt no pressure to be a leader out 
on the ice, and that he was content simply to 
prove himself. Last year, when Carnegie 
Mellon also lost in the championship game, he 
felt his play was not a major factor in the 
teams overall success.
Last year I played okay, he said. I had 
maybe a goal per game, but Timmons was 
carrying the team. Im pleased that I finally 
came on this year and carried some of the 
load.
Blackwood feels the Tartans lost to teams 
they should have beaten, including Allegheny,
When someone 
turns on a computer 
do you see red?
And white? And blue?
Thats patriotic. Computing Skills Workshop 
salutes you and reminds you that were now 
recruiting undergraduates to be teaching 
assistants.
Applications are available in Baker Hall 140 until 
March 18. Fill one out. Its what every red-blooded 
American should be doing.
Be a CSV/ comrade.
who won only two games all season.
I noticed that no matter who we played, we 
always played at their level, he said. We 
never played our own game. We finally played 
up to our potential towards the end of the 
season, just in time for the playoffs.
We never really had a chance to jell to
gether, Blackwood reflected. The coach, 
Bob Koch, had a lot of trouble getting a suc
cessful line figured out. The only people who 
really stayed together through most of the 
season were me and the center, Craig Palli. 
But Blackwood credits Koch for much of the 
teams success, including his own perform
ance this season.
Bob kept on me all year to just keep shoot
ing, he said. He really helped me in that way. 
He said the scoring would come eventually, 
and I finally got it all together.
As for next years squad, Blackwood feels 
the team should perform well despite the loss 
of several key seniors.
Every year we get a couple of freshmen who 
come in and look like they have good but not 
great skills, he said. But given a few weeks 
to get used to the team, they play well. We had 
a pretty good freshman class this year, and that 
should be a good basis for next years team. 
Blackwood said that he will miss competi
tive hockey, and that he would like to continue 
playing if he can.
I hope that whatever I do after graduation, I 
can still play in some sort of hockey league. I 
cant picture myself going through an entire 
winter without playing hockey. But it just 
hasnt sunk in yet that the loss to Gannon was 
my last game in a Tartan uniform, he said.
I guess thatll come in time, concluded 
Blackwood.
Schlaggers
scrounge
By NATALIE HAWRYLUK
Assistant Sports Editor
If the American Olympians had to 
compete in the Schlag Olympics, 
maybe they would have been able to win 
more medals than they did in Calgary. 
These Olympic sports do not require 
years of intense training, early morning 
practices, and most importantly, tryouts 
for the team. The only requirements are 
to be a resident of Hammerschlag House 
and to be the best at having a good time.
In addition to the usual athletic 
events  basketball, football, pool, 
ping-pong, ultimate frisbee and chess 
the boys of Schlag went head to head in 
a scavenger hunt. Items to be found in
cluded a 36C or larger bra, a uniformed 
female Pitt Cheerleader, President 
Cyerts signature in green ink, and a 
signed statement from Dr. Hugh D. 
Young that reads Physics is not that 
great. One resident commented, I was 
embarrassed to find that I was the only 
person owning a Frank Sinatra tape. 
At last count, one floor had acquired 
President Cyerts signature, and 4 of 5 
had convinced Dr. Young about phys
ics. Dr. Young did, however, add to his 
statements what he thought was better 
than physics  sex and the fact that he 
was not one of the Hamerschlag RAs.
Awards and Closing Ceremonies are 
slated for Friday, where residents will 
be rewarded for their fine efforts and 
dedication to what could become an
other infamous Schlag tradition.
GOODNEWS
Weight
Watchers
At Work/School Program Continued
For Newcomers 
and
For those of you who want to continue
mUna EO 
uU1R4 i2TRR, dT1.C B-X-Lww 
m4T14Uan
March 21 to May 23,1988
(10 week program)
u77
$72.00 payable in two installments^$36 each)
First payment due March 21 
Second payment due April 18
(BotkptqmtmtsdmHmrH Postdate AprilChtck)
Classes
Mondays, Skibo Rm. 12, noon to 1:00 p.m.
d by CMU/Health Eductfio^Divim at S*<fci* Aft***

---------------------------------------------------

The Ides of March. 
Beware. 
You just might 
learn something 
new today.
Talking HyperCard
Paul Hudspeth, Apple Systems Engineer 
3, 5:30 and 8pm
Continuous Macintosh Software Demonstrations
14pm & 59pm
Carnegie Mellon students, faculty and staff welcome.
StraightT alk
About Apple Computers from Apple Users
March 15, 1988, l-4pm & 5-9pm 
Skibo Hall, Carnegie Mellon
Produced on a Macintosh SE with Adobe Illustrator, Microsoft Word, and Quark XPress. Proofed on a LaserWriter Plus and 
typeset on a Linotronic 300.

---------------------------------------------------

Scoreboard
IM NEWS
The next IM Board Meeting will be held 
Thursday, March 17th, at noon in the Gym 
inference Room.
SPORTS IN SEASON 
Floor Hockey
Majors - Eric Bittner x8650 
Intermediate - Jeff Cohen x4134 
Results are posted on the IM bulletin board. 
Changes to the schedule are up on the IM 
bulletin board.
Pinochle
Commissioner Pete Gaertner x5516 
Schedules are out and can be picked up in the 
IM office. Please play all matches as sched
uled, and Call all results into Peter.
^ater Basketball
Commissioner Carl Bell x5509 
The water basketball lifeguard will be John 
Bender, x4552. More teams could be used for 
this season. Sign up now in the IM office, gym 
room 102.
Table Tennis
Commissioner Stu Fox x4226 
 Revised schedules are out and can be picked 
up in the IM office and as soon as possible. 
Please report all results to Stu or the IM office 
at x2214.
Basketball Foul Shooting
Commissioner Dan Michel x4684 
Shooting dates are March 15-16 from 6-8 pm 
in the Gym. The shoot-out will consist of 100 
shots in individual, and 500 shots in 5 person 
leam competition.
Team Call Pool and Individual Call Pool
Commissioner Andy Segal x4436 
Please play all matches as scheduled and 
report all results to Commissioner Segal.
Co-Rec and Team Badminton
Commissioner Stu Fox x4226
- Matches will be played Thursday, March 17 
in the main gym at 7:00. Post entry format will 
be followed.
Indoor Soccer
Commissioner A1 Margarella x5516 
Schedules are out and can be picked up in the 
IM office.
% on 3 basketball
Commissioner Dave Denhard 421-5155 
Games will be played on Monday March 
14th and Tuesday March 15th. Complete de
tails of the event will be in next weeks report.
SPORTS COMING UP
ftSwimining
Commissioner Hal Levine x5981 
Meet Date will be Monday, March 21st, at 
the CMU pool starting at 4:30. Enter when 
your event is called. Get your team lined up 
now, and rules can be picked up in the IM 
office.
I Weight Lifting
(^Commissioner Keith Gorse x2222
Please sign up in the IM office or call Keith 
at x2222. All entries are welcome.
I Handball
\ Commissioner E.J. Birdy x2214
Last call for handball, sign your team up now 
J in the IM office.
Fencing
Commissioner Cyle Sprick x4668 
Entries are due March 30th.
Triathalon
Commissioner Mrs. Morosky x2075 
Entries are due on April 20th at 4:30 pm. The 
meet will be held on April 30th, and consist of 
a 400 yard swim, 10 mile bike leg, and a 3.1 
mile run. Get your team lined up now.
Softball
Majors - Pat Jefferies x4299
Intermediate - Stu Fox x4226
Minors and Women - Stephanie Janczak
x4229
Entries are due March 17th at 4:30 pm. Play 
will begin April 4th, in elimination tournament 
format. A mandatory meeting will be held on 
March 24th for all teams involved. Schedules 
will be handed out at that meeting. No resched
uling will be done except for the weather. Play 
must be completed by May 1st.
Track
The date for the 1988 IM Track Meet is set for 
April 21st. Individual as well as team compe
tition will take place. Those interested should 
report to the track by 4:00 pm on April 21.
THE IM TICKER....
Last week the Intramural Basketball season 
came to a close, as the womens championship 
was contested between the 5 C&D Players, and 
SUPA. In a game that was close from begin
ning to end, 5 C&D Players outlasted SUPA 
35-30. 5 C&D was led by MVP Alison Guy, 
who netted 18 points to lead all scorers. Patti 
Sparrow also paced the winners with 9 points.
The floor hockey season is coming to a close, 
and the playoffs are just around the comer. The 
minors and majors floor hockey playoffs will 
begin the week of March 21st. Playoff sched
ules will be posted on the IM bulletin board on 
Thursday, March 17.
The Intramural Department would like to 
thank all of the workers and officials who 
helped during the IM basketball season. All of 
your help is greatly appreciated.
The all-sports standings are now released and 
are updated to include basketball results. 
Through last week, the standings are:
1.EC E...........................................1304.3
2. Spirit....................................1303.3
3. Pioneers.........................................585.0
4. Phi-Kap..........................................544.0
5. Pika.................................................509.3
6. Mech E. Grads..............................497.3
7. Sudsuckers.....................................420.0
8. Real Mellon...................................400.0
9. GSIA................................................361.6
10. SAE................................................353.3
Banner retires early
continued from page 24
States All-Star track and field team.
Banner is also a former president of the Na
tional Track and Field Coaches Association 
Banner earned his bachelors degree in 1954 at 
Pitt, whore he was a varsity letterman on the 
track team. He earned his masters degree in 
physical education and athletic administration 
at West Virginia University in 1961.
He was named a Pitt Letterman of Distinction 
by the Pitt Varsity Lettermans Club in 1986.
According to Sports Information Director 
Bruce Gerson, the search committee to replace 
Banner will include Elliott as well as students, 
faculty and alumni.
Contributing to this story were Neal Levene, 
Stewart Levine, Perry Pierce, and Josh Ruben.
West Penn College Hockey Association 
Final Standings
si
WLTGFGAPTS
Gannon13011053027
Pitt932865620
Carnegie Mellon734604618
Penn State West752605316
West Virginia572527312
Indiana U. of Pa.374577010
Allegheny211136875
Slippery Rock111243844
NCAA TOURNAMENT FINAL 64
FIRST ROUND BRACKETS
SOUTHEASTMIDWEST
1 Oklahoma1 Purdue
16 TN - Chattanooga16 Dickenson
8 Auburn8 Baylor
9 Bradley9 Memphis St.
5 Louisville5 DePaul
12 Oregon St.12 Witchita St.
4BYU4 Kansas St.
13 NC - Charlotte13 La Salle
2 Kentucky2 Pitt
15 Southern15 E. Michigan
7 Maryland7 Vanderbilt
10 UC - Santa Barbara10 Utah St.
6 Villanova6 Kansas
11 Arkansas11 Xavier
3 Illinois3 NC St..
14 TX - San Antonio14 Murray St.
EASTWEST
1 Temple1 Arizona
16 Lehigh16 Cornell
8 Georgetown8 Seton Hall
9 LSU9 TX - El Paso
5 Georgia Tech5 Iowa
12 Iowa St.12 Florida St.
4 Indiana4UNLV
13 Richmond13 SW Missouri
2 Duke2 North Carolina
15 Boston U.15 N. Texas St.
7 SMU7 Wyoming
10 Notre Dame10 Loyola - Marymount
6 Missouri6 Florida
11 Rhode Island11 St. Johns
3 Syracuse3 Michigan
14 NC A&T14 Boise St

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartans'PORTS
IM  CLUBS  VARSITY  PROFESSIONAL
The Pittsburgh sports scene:
Hockey: (Sun) Penguins 5 Winnepeg 4 
(Sat) Minnesota 6 Penguins 3 
Spring Baseball: Pirates 17 Phili. 3 
Basketball: Pitt 75 UConn 58 
Villanova 72 Pitt 69
Banner retirement causes controversy
By NEIL GREENBLUM
Tartan Contributing Editor
In a surprise move Friday, Carnegie Mellon 
Athletic Director Jim Banner announced he 
would retire March 31.
Bill Elliott, who oversees athletics as vice 
president for enrollment, has been named act
ing athletic director until a search committee 
selects a successor.
The Universitys athletic director since 
1975, Banner had reported directly to Carne
gie Mellon President Richard Cyert. How
ever, last years organizational restructuring 
moved Banner underneath Elliott.
Banners premature retirement was pre
ceded by rumors that he was being pressured 
into retiring before next year, when he report
edly intended to do so. Such pressure suppos
edly came from the schools board of trustees.
Banner stated, however, that no such pres
sure existed. [Retiring] was something I 
wanted to do. It was a decision I made on my
own, he said in a telephone interview Sun
day.
The highlight of my career at Carnegie 
Mellon has been working with Richard 
Cyert, Banner said. I learned a great deal 
from him and enjoyed our association im
mensely. However, I feel Ive accomplished 
the goals I set in 1975. Each mens sport has 
won at least one conference championship 
and the womens programs have won 13 
league championships.
Under Banner, the Tartans won 41 confer
ence championships and compiled a .613 
winning percentage. Fourteen of 16 varsity 
sports posted winning records during the 
Canonsburg natives tenure.
Carnegie Mellon owes Jim a great debt of 
gratitude for taking a sports program that was 
in the depths and leaving it in a very competi
tive posture, said Cyert. He has hired out
standing coaches and hes always been a force 
for trying to improve our athletic facilities.
Indoor track loses first meet
By STEWART LEVINE 
Tartan Contributing Editor
Carnegie Mellon placed seventh in both 
mens and womens competition at the 
University Athletic Association Indoor 
Track Championships last weekend at the 
University of Chicago.
While the University has a fall program in 
cross-country and spring outdoor track, 
there is no winter track team. Officially, 
under Track Coaches Gary Meckley and 
Dario Donatelli, members of the outdoor 
track teams have competed in local indoor 
events since late January.
Last week, the makeshift Tartans took 
their show on the road. They went to Chi
cago with a 25 member team, second small
est in the league and just ahead of NYU. By 
comparison, womens winner and mens 
runner-up Rochester brought over twice as 
many people.
Its almost a wonder the team got to Chi
cago at all. Donatelli explains, We didnt 
know we were going to the meet until late 
January. Once there, the team simply 
treated the event as a chance to improve 
their times.
We knew that everyone (else) had done 
many meets, we just wanted to run our 
fastest races. Damien McKnight, Keith
Stopen, Julia Wright  they did well 
competitively, he added.
"We also had a number of good perform
ances from people who ran their fastest 
times this season, including Gary Harrison 
in the half-mile and Gary Meeker in the 
1500 meters.
Wright was the highest Tartan finisher, 
placing second in the womens 55 meter 
hurdle. Stopen took third in the mens 5000 
meter run, and McKnight placed fifth in 
the mens 55 meter hurdle.
Womens Coach Donatelli feels the in
door team will perform better next year. I 
think we were just a year behind everybody 
else. Everyone sponsors an indoor season 
except for Carnegie Mellon. At the coaches 
meeting, I found out that Washington 
didn't have [an indoor team] until this year. 
Next year we should be sponsored and have 
a budget.
That leaves only one problem, the Tar
tans do not have a place on campus to train. 
Donatelli explained, This is the first year 
in many years we were not able to use Pitts 
track. Hopefully well be able to use it 
again next year.
Donatelli concluded, What Ill do is, Ill 
work at getting meets earlier. Well use our 
meets as training.
Almost all of the indoor track and field athletes come from the outdoor track and 
field and cross country teams.
Under Banner, the Tartans won over 41 
conference championships.
Hes done a first-class job as athletic director. 
Elliott was unavailable for comment.
Its a shame to see him go, said Head Basket
ball Coach Larry Anderson.
Gary Meckley, assistant athletic director and 
coach for mens cross country and track, was 
also disappointed in Banners retirement. Most 
of the staff wanted him to stay. With his Divison
I background, he was in a rut. He wanted to
go.
Banner came to Carnegie Mellon from the 
University of Pittsburgh, where in nine seaI feel Ive accomplished the 
goals I set in 1975. 
 Jim Banner
sons as head track and cross-country coach 
(1966-75) he led the Panthers to a 72-26 track 
record, and introduced the Pitt outdoor and 
indoor track and field invitationals.
He wanted to come and straighten out the 
mess, Meckley said. There were no fulltime 
coaches or trainers before Banner arrived, ac
cording to Meckley, nor were there physical 
education courses for credit.
Banner was also an assistant coach at Pitt 
from 1961-64, and produced four NCAA 
champions. The Panthers were annual con
tenders for the Intercollegiate Association of 
Amateur Athletes of America (IC4A) title.
He later became president of the IC4A, and 
in 1973 was named head coach of the United 
continued on page 23
lU44 EOR74 3CU27 mr1T.ER7 3UaR U4 T22
Big East thrills in tourney
By PERRY PIERCE
Tartan Staffer iter
Every year the second week of March is filled 
with the madness of college basketball confer
ence tournaments. The powerful Big East Tour
nament is consistently one of most exciting 
tournaments. Nine of the best Division I teams 
walked into Madison Square Garden last week 
to battle it out for the Big East crown. The 
tournament took on a different light this year, as 
some of the top teams were upset. But in the end, 
Syracuse was true to the form they were boast
ing in the pre-season, won the tournament 
championship by beating Villanova 85-68. This 
win, however, only earned Syracuse a third 
place ranking in the division overall.
The Pittsburgh Panthers went into the tourna
ment as the number one seed after winning the 
regular season title. Teams were ranked accord
ing to their finish in conference play.
The ninth ranked Connecticut Huskies 
squared off against the Providence Judges last 
Thursday to start off the festivities, narrowing 
the field to eight teams. The Huskies played an 
all around quality game in defeating Provi
dence, and advanced to the second round to face 
the Panthers. Pitt ran away with that game, 
downing UConn 75-58. With this win, the 
Panthers advanced to their first ever Big East 
semi-final game.
In the other first round games, the third seeded 
Georgetown Hoyas were stunned by Seton Hall 
61-58. The Hoyas were victims of an erratic 
shooting performance, and found themselves 
down by 11 at the half. Georgetowns defense 
kept them in game during the second half, but it 
was not enough to surmount the physical game 
played by the Pirates.
The Syracuse Orangemen cruised to the semi
finals with a 67-53 win over Boston College. St. 
Johns was stunned by Villanova 71-68.
The semifinals only saw one big upset, with 
the Panthers falling 72-69 to Villanova. The 
Wildcats were lead by Mark Planskys 25
points, while Syracuse escaped an upset b> 
the Pirates of Seton Hall, 68-63. The Orange
men started out very slowly, letting Seton 
Hall jump out to an early 15 point lead. 
Syracuses overall experience proved to be 
the difference in the game, as they picked 
away at the Pirate lead instead trying to come 
back with one big spurt
Syracuse was heavily favored going into 
the final over fifth seeded Villanova, and tlK 
Orangemen played a solid game en route to 
a 85-68 win. The first half was back and 
forth, with Syracuse winning 39-34 at the 
half. The Orangemen were led by the 16 first 
half points by Sherman Douglas, and domi
nated the speed game, outscoring Villanova 
12-0 in fast break points.
Villanova had a 1-8 record this season 
when they were losing at the half, anc* 
Syracuse made it 1-9, outscoring the Wild
cats 46-34 in the second half.
Douglas added 8 more second half points, 
but the big scorer was Stephen Thompson, 
putting in 25 points for the Orangemen to 
lead all scorers. Syracuse senior center Ron 
Seiklay helped out with 15 points in the 
game, and played excellent defense the 
whole way.
In the end, the Big East Conference fin
ished the 1987-88 season in fine fashion once 
again, sending 5 teams into the NCAA Tour
nament. Temple is leading the way in the Big 
East followed by Pitt.
Last year the Orangemen lost on a last 
second shot in the finals to the Indiana Hoosiers, but more significant was the fact that 
every team that beat a Big East team in th. 
NCAA Tournament last year lost their next 
game. This year, expect the Big East once 
again to show why it is the most powerful 
basketball conference in the country, with 
prospects of sending at least one team to the 
mythical Final Four for the fifth time in the 
last six seasons.

---------------------------------------------------

D
The TartanIVERSION
ENTERTAINMENT  COMICS  CALENDAR  CLASSIFIEDS
INSIDE I
MUSIC.......................Page D4
Michael Hedges and Leo Kottke: guitar 
magic at Graffiti
70s TV CLASSICS.....Page D5
Gabe and The Sweathogs in a look back 
at Welcome Back, KotterB  way Cabaret is a gem
By ERIKA L. PETERSON
Tartan Managing Editor
Broadway Cabaret, a dance medley choreo
graphed by Carnegie Mellon faculty member 
and choreographer Billy Wilson, opened last 
Friday to a packed Kresge Theatre. The enthuj siastic performance succeeded in conveying 
the atmosphere of a small cabaret, as well as 
providing an entertaining evening of music 
and dance.
The show began somewhat slowly with 
numbers from Three Penny Opera and Caba
ret. These pieces, perhaps because of opening 
night nervousness, were choppy compared to 
the rest of the show. In particular, the meantJ to-be-sultry red-headed dancer portrayed by 
Maria Sneden in the opening Zuhalterballade from Three Penny Opera moved tooCFA veteran to 
star in Pgh.
# production of 
Don Giovanni
By LORI MAURER
Tartan Staffwriter
The Pittsburgh Opera will present Don Gio
vanni on Saturday, March 19 at 8 pm, Friday, 
March 25 at 8 pm, Tuesday, March 22 at 7 pm 
and Sunday, March 27 at 2 pm. The opera will 
^ star the acclaimed baritone Sherrill Milnes as 
Don Giovanni, Rosario Andrade as Donna 
Anna, Frances Ginsberg as Donna Elvira and 
Pamela Hinchman as Zerlina.
Ms. Hinchman, a native of Erie, Pa., veteran 
of Carnegie Mellons three month summer 
theatre program and a graduate of the Cleve
land Institute of Music, describes the opera as 
a wonderful production and also a unique 
one due to the influence of Tito Capobianco, 
general director of the Pittsburgh Opera and 
director of Don Giovanni.
Don Giovanni, composed by Mozart in 
1787, recounts the story of Don Juan, the 
legendary seducer of women. In traditional 
productions, the opera begins with the Dons
...the myth is still
* alive. It exists inside of 
everyone.
- Pamela Hinchman
attempted seduction of Donna Anna. Her 
outraged father challenges him to a duel. The 
Don kills him and continues his carefree, 
hedonistic existence until he is avenged by 
being haunted and dragged down to hell by 
the ghost of Donna Annas father.
Capobianco has developed a fresh interpre
tation of Mozarts classic opera. In the Pitts
burgh Opera production, the Don remains 
alive at the end of the Opera to illustrate, as 
Ms. Hinchman explains, [that] the myth is 
still alive, it exists inside of everyone. The 
different ending enhances the impact of the 
opera, especially for those who have seen it 
with the traditional ending. Ms. Hinchman 
describes its effectiveness as a surprise at the 
end, almost like a mystery novel.
The Pittsburgh Opera production also dif
fers from the traditional in Ms. Hinchmans 
portrayal of Zerlina. Usually, Zerlina is pre
sented as a virginal, peasant maiden exploited 
continued on page D2
choppily to convey the sensual nature of the 
piece. Snedens performance throughout the 
play, however, was consistently minced, and 
could have been intentional in order to further 
convey a sense of the individual performers 
within a cabaret community.
The cast began to pick up speed during the 
large numbers in the Lost in the Stars selec
tions. The music, although somewhat 
strangely arranged in a minor key, was skill
fully and intensely sung. These pieces helped 
to coagulate the show into a coherent en
semble production.
Stephanie Park, as Maria in West Side Story, 
captivated the audience with her stunning 
vocals. Parks vocal control and melodious 
tone came close to overwhelming the rest of 
the group. Although the overall effect of the 
section was impressive, the male vocals were 
at times lacking in intensity and control. The 
elaborate choreography of the dance number 
Nightmare Ballet was enthusiastically and 
adroitly executed.
The second act began relatively strongly with 
Broadway from Gypsy, with comical char
acter performances by Sneden, Susan Bern
stein, and Michael McElroy. This short sec
tion, ending with a fun rendition of All 
Aboard Broadway from George M!, was less 
impressive than the previous numbers, but 
entertaining nonetheless.
The fifth section of the show, entitled 
Scenes and Songs, was a somewhat anticlimactic conglomeration of solo or small 
group numbers. Adelaides Lament from 
Guys and Dolls, performed by Jessica Pen
nington, provided an excellent comedic break. 
The next number, Something Better Than 
This from Sweet Charity, was another enter
taining piece, dextrously performed by 
Sneden, Susan J. Coon, and Alexis Wilson. 
The highlight of this section, however, was
unquestionably the humorous and colorful 
Rhythm of Life, also from Sweet Charity. 
McElroy, who delivered a commendable ren
dition of Frankie in The Rocky Horror Show s 
Sweet Transvestite in the first act, gave an 
enchanting performance as the indecorous 
cult leader.
The large ensemble numbers, the mainstay of 
the show, were particularly stunning. The 
group harmonized well and was able to keep 
together in the often fast and demanding dance 
numbers. Among the highlights of the en
semble pieces were Cry, the Beloved Coun
try, from Lost in the Stars, a skillfully exe
cuted, soulful ballad; an exuberant, playful 
version of West Side Storys America, and 
the comical Rhythm of Life from Sweet 
Charity.
Technically, the show ran quite smoothly; 
props and furniture were brought in so swiftly 
and cleverly the audience often was unaware 
of the change until the action focused on the 
new props. The flies and backdrops were 
deftly designed to serve as anything from a 
New York City street to a seedy cafe. At times, 
especially during Train to Johannesburg, 
from Lost in the Stars, the sound seemed 
hollow, as though it were being improperly 
miked or mixed. These glitches, however, 
were only temporary, and the overall sound 
quality was good. The costumes, with the 
exception of the modem polo shirt and khaki 
pants of Christopher Rath during the Lost in 
the Stars section, were colorful and authentic. 
Watch for the green shoes  theyre really 
great.
This highly entertaining show runs at the 
Kresge Theatre tonight, Tuesday, March 15 
through Saturday, March 19 at 8 pm and on 
Saturday, March 19 at 2 pm. Tickets are avail
able through the Kresge Box Office, CFA 
Lobby, 268-2407.
photo counesy Dept, of Drama 
Susan J. Coon and Thomas Desrocher rehearse for Broadway Cabaret.
Patti Rocks 
showing at 
Filmmakers
By STEPHANIE REEDY
Tartan Staffwriter
Patti Rocks, a powerful film which ex
amines the clash of sex roles in a society 
in which we believe there is, for the most 
part, sexual equality, opened at the Fulton 
Theatre on Friday, March 4. Presented in 
a series of four controversial and inde
pendently made films, Patti Rocks will * 
play until March 17.
The film is a raw look at the worst side of 
men and their attitudes towards women. 
It centers around three characters who 
hold different sex role ideals. Chris 
Mulkey plays Billy, a married man whose 
attitude towards women is take what you 
can get while you can get it. He is the 
stereotypical sex-driven male whose re
spect for women adds up to zero.
John Jenkins plays Eddie, a more re
spectable man who has been divorced and 
has become wary of women because of it. 
Although he seems to be a more sensitive 
and personable character, he makes no 
effort to refute any of the accusations that 
Billy makes about the female population. 
Patti (Karen Landry) is the woman who 
becomes sexually involved with both 
men, but makes her own decisions re
garding sex and what she wants out of it. 
She resists the attitudes that are forced 
upon her by Billy, and is her own person 
because of it.
Billy, despite being married, has been 
sleeping with Patti and has gotten her 
pregnant. She refuses to have an abortion 
despite his pleadings, and Billy, not 
knowing what to do, convinces Eddie to 
accompany him on a road trip to see Patti 
in an attempt to change her mind about 
the abortion.
Billy and Eddie start off on a long road 
trip that gives the viewers an explicit 
sense of how lewd and vulgar men can be. 
Amid the drinking of countless beers and 
stories of the chicks that Billy has 
chopped (to use his own term) the 
audience gradually begins to realize how 
far Billys attitude towards women ex
tends.
Billy declares that his ideal situation 
would be to have sex with a woman and 
then disappear back to the bar where he 
met her to find someone else. Sex for 
Billy is a rush, and he says, When I see 
them I've gotta have them. When Eddie 
asks him if the women he sleeps with 
need him, Billy replies Who Cares? 
Patti, however, does not put up with this 
kind of attitude. When Billy and Eddie 
show up on her doorstep, she tells them 
she is keeping the baby and that she never 
wants to see Billy again. Billy makes 
several accusations to Patti including that 
she is a slut, whore, and piece of meat, 
among other names that are not fit to 
print. Patti fights back, amazed that he 
could call her such things when he cheats 
on his wife every week. She ends up 
getting the best of him because Billy 
finally gives up and accepts the fact that 
she will keep the baby. He doesnt mind 
as long as he isn't responsible for it and is 
content to stop seeing Patti. After all, she 
continued on page D3
4

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2The TartanMarch 15,1988
Don Giovanni coining 
to Pgh. Opera; CMU 
vet Hinchman to sing
continued from page D1
by the Don. Hinchman will portray Zerlina as 
unwillingly seducing the Don.
Ms. Hinchmans performance as Zerlina is 
her first with the Pittsburgh Opera and she 
admits to a bit of anxiety working with an 
opera legend such as Shirrell Milnes but de
scribes the company as having a spark par
ticularly in this production where the people 
are so terrific, so supportive. Its really an 
unusual group in that respect.
Ms. Hinchmans first major role was that of 
a woman from outer space in Gian-Carlo 
Menottis opera. The Bride from Pluto. 
Throughout her career she has been cast 
mostly in fun character roles which she 
describes as mischievous maids and flirta
tious things. Her other roles include Oscar 
with the Austin Lyric Opera in Masked Ball, 
Gretel in Opera New England's production of 
Hansel and Gretel, and Peaseblossom with 
the Pennsylvania Opera Theatres production 
of Purcell's The Fairy Queen .
Although Ms. Hinchman attributes her suc
cessful debut in The Bride from Pluto to being 
in the right place at the right time, she 
advises prospective opera performers to take 
their time. She stresses the importance of 
learning everything in the original language, 
adding that being fluent in the language which 
is sung is extremely beneficial, especially 
with international opera companies. She has 
found that her theatre background has helped 
immensely in her roles, which have been both 
dramatically and musically demanding. 
Pittsburgh Operas production of Don Gio
vanni should be a fresh, invigorating interprePamela Hinchman appears in Don Giovanni
tation of a classic opera highlighted by the 
performances of Ms. Hinchman, Sherrill 
Milnes and the rest of the exceptional cast. 
Ms. Hinchman exudes great enthusiasm 
about this opera and opera in general, describ
ing it as the amalgamation of all the arts. You 
have the dance, the sets, the symphonic 
music. Its every art form. I wish people 
would get excited about opera. Don Giophoto by Lisa Kohlerthis month.
vanni should be nothing short of exciting, and 
the tickets (the cheapest being $10) make the 
opera accessible to just about everyone  
something that general director Capobianco 
is striving for in the Pittsburgh community. 
For those hesitant due to the language barrier 
(Don Giovanni is an Italian opera), OpTrans, 
projected English translations, will be used 
throughout the performance.
East meets West: Chamber music at The Carnegie
PITTSBURGH  Carnegie Mellon 
Universitys Cuarteto Latinoamericano 
will present a free concert at 8 pm on 
Friday, March 18 in the Carnegie Music 
Hall, Oakland. The group will be per
forming with the Chinese Music En
semble of Shanghai as they make their 
Pittsburgh debut.
Formed in 1981, the Cuarteto Latinamericano is made up of musicians 
Saul Bitran playing first violin, Aron 
Bitran playing second violin, Javier 
Montiel playing viola and Alvaro Bitran 
playing cello. The group is in residence 
at Carnegie Mellon this year.
The Cuarteto will perform the Debussy 
String Quartet as well as the World Pre
miere of Quartet 5 by Manuel Enriquez, 
credited as one of Mexicos finest com
posers.
The Chinese Music Ensemble is spon
sored by The China Music Project and 
The Cleveland Museum of Art. They 
performed in Boston, Cleveland, Day
ton, and Oberlin, Ohio and will be mak
ing their Pittsburgh debut Friday night. 
The Ensemble will be visiting CMU as 
part of their first American tour. They 
will perform traditional Chinese music, 
ranging from solo to quartet, using au
thentic instruments such as the suona 
(Chinese oboe), dizi (horizontal bamboo 
flute), and xiao (vertical bamboo flute).
This is a free concert open to the public. 
For more information, please contact the 
CMU Music Department at x366/.
Compiled by M. SCHWARTZ
AN'
back by popular demand
AB SQUARE DANCE
with the Fiddling Around Express Band
Skibo BallroomFriday, March 189 to 12 pm
Including dance instruction and a caller
O
D
jr
U
c

---------------------------------------------------

March 15,1988The TartanPage D3
THIS WEEK IN DH2210
Thursday, March 17
My Life As A Dog
What would life be like without all these wonderful European art films? A Swedish 
import directed by Lasse Hallstrom about a 12-year old boy sent to live with relatives, and, 
while there, he discovers about a lot about himself and his world Kind of like Stand By Me with subtitles.
I think they should have done Finians Rainbow' for Saint Pattys Day, but not a bad 
choice. Erin Go Ingemar.
Starring: Anton Glanzelius, Melinda Kinnaman, Tomas von Bromssen 
Times: 6,8,10 
Friday, March 18
48 Hours
Come and experience a classic comedy. A rough-around-the-edges cop enlists the 
services of a convict to nab a cop killer. Great hillbilly bar scene (Never seen so many...), 
Sting imitations, and a surprising amount of carnage for a comedy. The Bus Boys win an 
Oscar for the best unknown band playing in a fictitious bar.
I know every blessed line in this movie, but Ill probably see it again. So should you. Take 
a date, too, preferably one with a turban (Watch for that line).
Starring: Eddie Murphy, Nick Nolte, Annette OToole 
Times: 6,8,10,12 
Saturday, March 19
Dirty Dancing
Have the time of your life. Good dancing, good music, cute girls (Personally, I like the 
little cute one rather than the sleek, sexy one), and cute guys, I guess. The plot is little more 
that fluff to showcase the dancing, music, and body parts, but those things are good enough 
to make this worth seeing.
Believe me, youd rather go see Patrick Swayze do this than listen to him sing. Oy, vey! 
Starring: Patrick Swayze, Jennifer Gray.
Times: 6,8,10,12 
Sunday, March 20
Sudden Impact
Possibly the movie with the most famous line of the 80s. The movie is little more than 
the standard Harry Callahan plot (i.e. kill a few thousand scumbags for scumbag crimes 
and get the girl whos his wife in real life anyway), but is worth going to see just because 
of the super-immortal Go ahead.... You know the rest.
Starring: Clint Eastwood, Sondra Locke 
Times: 6,8,10,12
Compiled by MARK BENISH
Career Services and Placement is offering the following workshops:
OF SPECIAL INTEREST TO JUNIORS:
GEARING UP FOR THE SENIOR YEAR Tuesday, March 22 
11:30 am - Skibo 12 4:30 pm - Skibo 12
OF SPECIAL INTEREST TQ SEA//OAS:
TRANSITION: CAMPUS TO CAREER Thursday, March 17 
7:30 pm - Skibo Ballroom
Independent films showing 
this month at Pgh. Filmmakers
continued from page D1
means nothing but good sex to him.
Although the film is aimed at shedding new 
light on sex roles in the 80s, it doesnt seem to 
be a threat to the equality of women. The 
movie is so extreme in its assertions that it is 
hard to take seriously. The characters and 
situation are very realistic and there is no 
question in believing that people like Billy 
exist, but it is difficult to believe that he is more 
than an exception to the majority of men.
Whether this is because one doesnt want to 
believe that more than a few Billys exist in our 
society is a matter of question, but Billys lack 
of intelligence limits the threat that he can pose 
to women. The only women who will be af
fected by someone like Billy are those whose 
intelligence levels are as low as his. Patti, 
because she is above Billy, is able to set him in 
his place and see him for what he is.
Despite explicit language and situations that 
can be somewhat offensive, Patti Rocks is 
worth seeing merely because of the social and 
sexual questions it raises.
Another film to look for at the Fulton Theatre 
in March is The Mozart Brothers, a comedy
about the problems a very traditional opera 
company runs into upon hiring an avant garde 
director to stage a production of Mozarts Don 
Giovanni . The Mozart Brothers runs from 
March 11 through the 17.
Following The Mozart Brothers will be Thy 
Kingdom Come, Thy Will Be Done, a contro
versial documentary dealing with the growing 
link between Christian Fundamentalists and 
American right-wing politics. The film, which 
opens March 18, will concentrate on the PTL, 
Dallas, the buckle on the Bible Belt, and Jim 
and Tammy Bakkers Heritage U.S.A. Di
rected by Antony Thomas (Death Of A Prin
cess), the film was pulled from its original U.S. 
broadcast debut on PBS when it was deemed 
untimely.
Another film that was almost banned from 
public exhibition, Sammy And Rosie Get Laid, 
is an offbeat social satire that is set against the 
urban decay and violence of modern-day 
London. Written by Hanif Kureishi and di
rected by Stephen Frears, whose last coalition 
created My Beautiful Laundrette, Sammy And 
Rosie Get Laid will play at the Fulton March 
25 through April 7.
( WE NEED YOUR HELP!]
The Committee on Drug and Alcohol 
Education is establishing a program and 
referral network to help students with 
substance abuse problems. If you are a 
recovering alcoholic or drug dependent 
student, we need your expert advice.
If you can help, call Chrissy,6212694
z i r\mm t xxv'/ & ui
t ;w0 88<|:-#C7)
It,
?RECRUIT U.S.A., INC. (800) 325-9759
CITICORP PLAZA, 725 S. FIGUEROA ST., SUITE 3100 
LOS ANGELES, CA 9001? 'PHONE:(213) 955-4900
AUV*i"  V v
\

---------------------------------------------------

Page D4The TartanMarch 15,1988
Kottke and Hedges: Guitar wizardry at GraffitiI
By RONALD G. REDMOND
Tartan Staffer iter
As my friends Flint, Jeff and I sat and waited 
in Graffiti Friday night for the eleven oclock 
concert of Michael Hedges and Leo Kottke, 
we found ourselves wondering if it was going 
to be anti-climactic. Sure, we had listened to 
their albums, which were really good, but 
how were they going to be live? We did not 
have long to wait. As Flint spilled popcorn all 
over the lady sitting next to us, the concert 
began.
Leo Kottke played first, coming onstage 
amidst much applause. He picked up his sixstring acoustic guitar and began an amazing 
show. He started with an impressive, fast, 
driving improvisation, broken only by his 
amusing comments on the concert and life in 
general. Kottke then went from his quick style 
into a slower, more mellow style, which 
seemed to fit his personality, though he could 
play in either manner with skill.
Kottke told a story of a man who was di
vorced and bitter all the time. This man would 
sit in a bar and scare away all the customers; 
you see, the only way he could be happy was 
if he made other people bitter. So this man 
decided to write a song, an ugly, bitter song 
about his troubles. Kottke liked to play this 
song because he thought that it was funny 
how it tried to make people bitter. After this 
explanation, one could easily see the humor in 
this song, a bitter, ugly song that Kottke made 
wonderful.
Switching from the six-string to the twelvestring guitar, Kottke showed his amazing 
improvisational skills. During the improvisa
tion, he stopped playing and asked for a spot
light on his pants. Theres a soul to polyester, 
when you get the right light on it, he said
after asking the spotlight to change colors a 
few times.
Finishing, Kottke played two songs that he 
wrote. Pink Christmas was a song that he tried 
to write in a Mexican style. But, as he admit
ted, it came out sounding more like an ItalianChristmas style. Pink Christmas was long and 
extremely enjoyable. His finale, Pamela 
Brown, had great vocals, and he really made 
the guitar sing. The crowd roared, and ap
plauded with fervor, thoroughly delighted. 
Thus arrived a short intermission.
As Flint narrowly avoided spilling the rest of 
the popcorn, Michael Hedges bounded down
stairs and onto the stage. During the tumultu
ous applause he jumped up and down on the 
stage, his hyperactive state contrasting with 
that of the mellow, but intense, Leo Kottke. 
He started as soon as the applause died, with 
Pinhall Wizard by The Who on his acoustic 
guitar. Moving all the time, he went into a 
song written just for solo-acoustic guitar, The 
Ritual Dance, which moved almost as much 
as he did.
As I watched, thinking that the guitar looked 
practically alive in his hands, Jeff leaned 
towards me. Hes got a fantastic stage pres
ence, Jeff said; I readily agreed.
It was after some improvisational work that 
Hedges brought out a secret weapon of 
sorts. It was The Harp Guitar. This weird and 
awesome device seemed part guitar and part 
mandolin. He completely amazed the audi
ence with his Harp Guitar prowess, and the 
energy never stopped flowing. One could 
really see the magicians motto the hand is 
quicker than the eye, when Hedges played. 
His hands flew over the instrument. You 
could say that he was just as good as Kottke, 
maybe even better, but this is very hard to
SERVICE DESK
&
REC ROOM 
ATTENDANTS
* Applications now being accepted for 
1988 SUMMER and FALL semesters
* Must be work-study eligible
* Applications due Friday March 18th
* For an application or further 
information, please stop by or 
contact the Housing Office at x2139
determine, as they have two completely dif
ferent styles of playing.
After playing two of his own acoustic works, 
The Oklahoma Tornado and The Oklahoma 
Wheat Field, he sang another Michael 
Hedges original, Face Yourself. This song 
had the whole audience swaying. He de
lighted the audience yet again when he sang 
Bob Dylans/4//Along the Watch Tower. The 
power of his voice was incredible.
He then took a serious tone, and calmed 
down to introduce the next song, Aerial 
Boundaries. This was another in his line of 
Oklahoma songs about an Oklahoma sky just 
on the fringe of a storm. We could easily 
picture this while listening to Hedges play. 
Aerial Boundaries is also the title track on his 
album dedicated to Galileo.
He played a song that he called a march, 
dedicated to Ian Anderson of Jethro Tull. 
Hedges, inspired by Anderson, played flute in 
his high school marching band. A march 
played on acoustic guitar is something that 
you would not want to miss. He ended with 
the classic Beatles tune, Come Together, 
which the whole crowd sang.
After he left, the audience gave him a stand
ing ovation. They would not quiet down until 
he came back, but when he asked Leo Kottke 
to join him the audience went insane. They 
improvised together for a while, which 
showed amazing harmony, as if they were 
reading each others minds. Then they went 
into a resounding version of Eight Miles High 
by The Byrds. This song was the climax of the 
concert. These two masters were duo-guitar, 
duo-voice, duo-styles; all in harmony! Bat
man and Robin could not even hope to com
pare with this dynamic duo. After thanking 
the crowd, Graffiti, and their prDmoter, Next
Big Thing Productions, they left. The crowd 
stood on their feet, whistled, stomped, 
clapped, and hooted for twenty minutes. Once 
they quieted down, my colleagues and I heard 
exclamations such as magnificent, incred
ible, great, and wow. These two performers 
were completely amazing.
I warn you, check in your hometown now for ^ 
Hedges and Kottke concerts during Spring 
Break and the summer. This concert was sold 
out a long time in advance. Even the standing 
room only tickets sold rapidly. If this duo is 
playing somewhere close to you, and you can 
go, by all means do so. You have been 
warned.
AB Square Dance 
will be March 18
By MICHAEL ROSE
Tartan Diversions Editor
AB Dance has enlisted The Fiddlin 
Around Express Band to play a return 
engagement in the Skibo Ballroom on 
March 18 at 9 pm.
According to Dance Chairman Rich 
Ford, the last Square Dance generated 
such a positive student response that AB 
called the Express Band, who played 
here on January 28 of this year, and asked 
if they would be willing to do another 
show.
The band consists of 2 fiddlers, a drum
mer, bass and acoustic guitars, and a 
square dance caller. Square dance in
struction will be provided for beginners 
throughout the evening, and a good time 
is expected for all.
m a rejsxgxgfo? M 
Believe it or not, somebody does...
His name is Dan Corbett and hes your Ombudsman.
A student ombudsman is one whose job it is to investigate students 
complaints and do something about them.
Do you have a particular complaint, opinion or suggestion
about life at Carnegie Mellon? Dan Corbett and Dick Cyert decided 
that students needed a channel of communication with the 
administration and a way to be heard.
Dan Corbett is willing to answer your questions and has the 
ability to do something about your gripes and concerns!!
This is your life Why don't you do something about it??
Well, now you can.
Call (x21 07) or stop bv the Skibo info desk to set AI an appointment, 
Need help now? Phone Messages x5764, 24 hours a day.
Yes, finally someone who cares 
about us.
A message from your reps on Student Senate.
I
I

---------------------------------------------------

March 15,1988The TartanPage D5
.Up your nose with a rubber hose, etc.
Run Date: September 9, 1975 to August 3, 
1979 
Network:ABC 
Executive Producer: James Komack
When I was in sixth grade, they tried to teach 
us to disco in gym class. I thought it was one of 
*the most ridiculous things I ever did. I didnt 
mind the songs  remember, I was eleven at 
the time  but I thought the dancing they 
subjected us to was a punishment worse than 
not being allowed to watch The Bugs Bunny/ 
Road Runner Hour on Saturday mornings. 
Then I saw Saturday Night Fever (PG version)
and saw the man who made this style of torture 
chic: John Travolta. While I listened to the Bee 
Gees and the Trammps with pleasure, I had a 
sore spot for Travolta until his role in Grease 
got him off my Most Hated List. (I think 
Jimmy Swaggart is at the top of that list now.)
Its too bad that he was on the top of my Most 
Hated List for a while, because he was on the 
top of most every kids Favorite List around 
this time for his character of Vinnie Barbarino 
on Welcome Back, Kotter. His immortal lines 
Up your nose with a rubber hose and Get 
off my case, toilet face were on the lips of 
every pre-teen in America. There were Wel
come Back, Kotter collector stickers to be had 
(I still have mine of Washington floating 
around somewhere at home). Every little kid 
wanted to be a Sweathog. There was only one 
term for this phenomenon: Kotter Fu.
Welcome Back, Kotter had more than Tra
volta, however. The star of the show was Gabe 
Kaplan, who played Gabe Kotter. Kotter is a 
school teacher who returns to James Buchanan 
High School, his alma mater. Kaplan was one 
of the most well-known comedic actors of the 
70s, and his glib manner made him perfect for 
the part. He often did his famous Groucho 
Marx imitation, his trademark, on the show. 
Only Joe Piscopos Curly imitation is a better 
imitation of a deceased performer (perhaps a 
new Emmy category?).
Kotters assignment at the Brooklyn school 
(Brooklyn  4th largest city in America) was 
the Sweathogs, a group of unteachable, untrainable kids who are the reason America will 
lose its next war. Besides Travoltas character, 
the Sweathogs consisted of the following 
characters: Robert Heyges as Juan Epstein; 
Ron Palillo as Arnold Horshack, whose dryheave laugh brought him to stardom; Law
rence Hilton-Jacobs as Freddie BoomBoom Washington, whose line was Hi, 
there after he would get caught in a mischie
vous situation; Melonie Haller as Angie Globagoski, a female Sweathog who joined the 
cast in 1978; and Stephen Shortridge as Beau 
De Labarre, a new Sweathog added when 
Travoltas contract for Grease forced him to 
appear less frequently on Kotter. The charac
ters of Epstein, Horshack, and Washington 
became extremely popular with kids because 
of their do-what-we-want attitude, and were 
popular with some adults because the charac
ters were good kids underneath their hooligan 
exteriors. It just supports my hypothesis that 
the best kids are the ones that are in detention 
all the time.
The other adult characters on this show added 
the view from the teachers side that rounded
@m(nsD
LmcsSy
A Day to:
...meet your Senators. 
...voice your complaints and 
suggestions.
...make a real difference at CMU!
Scotland Yard 
Thursday, March 17th 
4:30 to 6:00
rasE IF
Funded by your activities fee.
Working together, we get things done.
out the shows cast of characters. Marcia 
Strassman played Julie Kotter, Gabes wife. 
Some of the funnier moments would come at 
the end of the show when Gabe would go home 
and review his day with Julie. Julie gave birth 
to twin girls in 1977, and some of the more 
touching moments of the show were when the 
sweathogs came over to the Kotters apart
ment to see the kids. The even more touching 
times were when Kotter would come home 
very late and talk to his children (Well, they 
were in cribs, so they didnt reply.). The touch 
of showing Kotters wife pulled this show up 
in quality to being a very good sitcom, rather 
than just a popular one.
The other adult character was Michael 
Woodman, the vice-principal of Buchanan, 
who was played by John Sylvester White. 
Woodman taught Kotter when he was in high 
school, so he had a hard time adjusting to the 
fact that Kotter had become a teacher. He also 
acted in a very straight-laced manner, which 
made him the brunt of many of the Sweathogs 
jokes. But he had a genuine concern for the 
kids, which was apparent in the funniest 
Kotter episode (I must credit my Welcome 
Back, Kotter consultant George Bentel for 
recalling this episode for me). The Sweathogs
had a rumble with another gang, and Kotter 
and Woodman showed up at the brawl because 
they desperately needed numeric support. 
Woodman was dressed in a leather jacket and 
attempted to act tough. The sight of Woodman 
dressed like a Sweathog was hilarious. Try to 
picture Peter Ustinov with an afro, and youll 
get the picture.
The long-lasting impact of Kotter will be the 
theme song. The song, Welcome Back, was 
a hit sung by John Sebastian of Lovin' Spoon
ful fame. The song was a mellow ballad about 
someone returning to their place of origin after 
trying to be successful elsewhere. The reason 
for the success of the song is because the story 
line of the song is not peculiar to the show 
itself. It could be for me if I come back here ten 
years from now to go to grad school (Boy, 
thats a scary thought).
Kotter moved around the time slot in its four 
seasons, having three different time slots in 
that span. It was bumped by Laverne & Shirley 
the first time, and Mork and Mindy the second 
time. Now its been bumped by absolutely 
everything, because I cant find it playing in 
reruns anywhere. Too bad; I want something 
to remember John Travolta by. Well, I guess I 
can always go and listen to Night Fever.
THE BRITISH AMERICAN 
DRAMA ACADEMY
with YALE SCHOOL OF DRAMA 
and UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 
AT LOS ANGELES (UCLA) present
Mi/summer in
/thSluqusL'ySS
.4 unique opportunity to study with the world s greatest actors and directors white staying at Balliol College, one of Oxford's ancient and most beautiful colleges Those taking part in I98~ included Sir John Gielgud  Jeremy Irons  Brian (ox Simon Callow  Paul Rogers  Oleg Efremov (Moscow Arts Theatre) Joachim Tenschert (Berliner Ensemble) Roseman Harris and Geraldine Me EwanSENIOR ACTING PROGRAMAcademic Chairman bark* (iMcr. Asvu iau- Ik-an. Yale School of Drama Tuition Fee: Si;775*
I NDERGRADl ATE ACTING PROGRAMAcademic C hairman Norman Vkcbh. I nivcnt\ of California at l.s Angeles Tuition Fee: Sl.6*V
INTERNATIONA! A< TIM, PROGRAM
< lae> *n Bret ht am! < hekfx * 
\* ith leading nu mht n. if tin 
Berliner hnscmhle ami 
Mtinim Arts Theatre Tuition Fee: Si;Admission b\ Audition i >nl\ - Full Aiadcnm < redit - Full Details tn>
Midsummer in Oxford Program Yale School of Drama PO Box 1903A Yale Station New Haven Connecticut 06S20 Tel 20A -#J2 ISOO Fees subject to rate of exchange
Great Expectations  VVhtere precision haircutting is a tradition, as well as an art and at 
affordable pricesWITH THIS COUPON
I
I save $2.00 one Precision Haircut complete with shampoo * blow style
I (&MST1jj^March^ 1^988^______________CTOfTTM*S]
SAflsF^TOrTGUAPANTEED'Great Styles Start at...
EXPCGTIITMnSPPCiS*ON HAiPCunff?S237 Atwood Street
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office 
687-3500
m

---------------------------------------------------

Page D6The TartanMarch 15,1988
Crystal Energy Fu, courtesy of Joe Bob Briggs
I got this little book for Christmas called 
Crystal Love that had a red rock included 
with it and its about how to use the earths 
magic energy to fill my life with love and 
success, and Ive gone through the entire 
program now and I got to admit, it really 
works. Heres what happened to me. It can 
happen to you, too.
I was ready to make contact with my love 
stone. So I sat by the window and put the 
stone over my heart and took 87 deep 
breaths and imagined that I was filled up 
inside with a pink light and that I was 
starting to hear my inner voice for the first 
time. It was tiny at first, but it got stronger
j Joe Bob Goes j
: To The Drive-In :
and stronger. My inner voice was saying, 
You got a rock on your chest.
Next I started talkin to the rock, tellin it 
what I wanted. VISUALIZING my dream as 
reality, tellin stuff like "I already have my 
heart's desire, and she has a couple of 44's 
on her. thats how I'll know her when I see 
her coming. And then I tossed the rock 
around from hand to hand to send some love 
energy out to this humongously talented 
sleaze-a-rama sex machine with no known 
venereal diseases.
Now it gets complicated right here, where 
you have to lay down a lot and stick the rock 
on top of your chakras, which are basically 
these zones on your body where if you get 
hit there with a baseball bat, youll die. So 
you stick the rock on these places and it 
teaches you how to love yourself. I wanted a 
whole bunch of this part, so I did it eight, 
nine days, stickin that rock in places some 
people never even THOUGHT of stickin it,
so that I could love ALL of myself. In fact, I 
got to where I like this part of it so much 
that after a week or so, it was all I did all 
day long. Id lay down on a flat surface, start 
deep breathin with the rock on my Numero 
Uno Chakra, which can be real ticklish, and 
work all the way up to Numero Seven, and 
on each one Id be sendin out unconditional 
love to myself and forjittun the whole world 
and lovin my child-self and gettin rid of 
jealousy in people that arent as nice as me 
and maybe dont have a love rock and 
releasin my anger and creatin all the 
prosperity I deserve and deprogrammin all 
my negative self-judgments and makin 
myself into one heavy dude with a rock.
I guess it was last Thursday when it all hit 
me and I got the one hunnerd per cent pure 
dee vision of the reality and fullness of what 
I was doing, and I was ONE with the rock 
and I knew there was no turning back cause - 
it was REVEALED to me just exactly what 
the rock meant to be in my life. And so I 
pressed the rock deeply into my palm and I 
wrapped the hand closely around its smooth 
surface and then I got into my car and I 
drove all night up to New York City, 
meditatin all the way on the rock that was 
surgin energy through me, and when I got to 
New York City I found somebody that told 
me where the woman lived that wrote the 
book Crystal Love and when she came out 
of her house the next morning I sailed the 
rock 40 feet in a perfect arc that barely 
missed her seventh chakra cause she was 
bendin over to pick up the paper, but it hit 
her right in the Hiney Chakra and caused a 
sound to come out of her Throat Chakra like 
a weasel with diarrhea in a blender. This is 
what the rock had been made for all along. 
This is what the rock god intended.
Speaking of getting your chakra nailed to a
chair, theres one scene in The Serpent and 
the Rainbow thats so painful Id just as 
soon skip it and tell you about the one where 
the guy sticks these incredibly sharp, 
incredibly long needles directly into his face 
so he can slither around the voodoo dance 
floor like a greased javelina hog. Its all part 
of the Voodoo Fu that this Harvard guy goes 
down to Haiti to study so he can find out 
what the secret formula is for tumin people 
into zombies. Unfortunately, once he gets 
down there, the chief of Papa Docs secret 
police starts jumpin in his dreams like 
Freddy Krueger and makin snakes come out 
of zombies mouths and eat him alive and 
giant jaguars chase him with slow-motion 
Zombie Cams. The flick was made by Wes 
Craven, Mr. Nightmare on Elm Street 
himself, and so its sort of like Freddy 
Krueger puts together a reggae band and 
starts slime-dancin behind your eyeballs.
The deal is that the secret police guy is 
zombifyin the population, stealin their souls,
hacking off their body parts and forcing em 
to fly Pan Am. Its terrifying.
We got two breasts. Six dead bodies. Four 
undead bodies. Voodoo funeral. Exploding 
coffin. Fire eating. Glass eating. Graveyard 
voodoo Catholic candle zombie face-eating. 
One dead wall-pig. Aardvarking. Zombie 
Cam. Jaguar Cam. Orgasm Cam. Heads roll. 
Heads thrown. Gratuitous face needles. ^ 
Jaguar Fu. Zombie Fu. Scorpion Fu.
Tarantula Fu. Snake Fu. Drive-In Academy 
Award nomination for Cathy Tyson, as 
Marielle the walkin Haitian pharmacy, for 
demonstratin the holy aardvark in a cave; 
Conrad Roberts, as Christophe the friendly 
zombie; Zakes Mokae, as the secret-service 
cop with a claw hammer and mug of human 
blood, for saying I dont want money  I ^ 
wanna hear you scream and Wes Craven, 
well-known zombie director, for taking a 
fine book by an anthropologist and making 
it into a wonderful exploitation movie.
Four stars. Joe Bob says check it out.
This is what youll look like after seeing The Serpent and the Rainbow
I
AB FILM
Change of Movie:
Friday, April 22 
from Fatal Attraction 
to Wall Street
.Emm :
Fatal Attraction will be shown 
Sunday, May 1.
Shown in DH 2210.

---------------------------------------------------

BLOOM COUNTY
By Berke Breathed
Funded by 
Student Dormitory Council
REAP MY UPS,
you ugly yam-facel\ 
GOON ...I'M CrONNAsue*
US A3((1 0w(e k3pro 
ga1wagamk )Fistysn radum 
tMch hF)tc22 iliM t8t
HAVE TO PO /T WITH EL VIS 'S
JFBtMb He ms B )FiccG
LEVEL'HEAPBP GUY IN MOST
bFin)JTcno
ZORKSTEtN / OUR. 
BARTH KIPNftPEE 
THREATENS TO 
sue US FOR UNLAWFUL 
BRAIN TRANSPLANTING/
(NB MUST 
THINK OF A LESS- TRf\NSDBvBF)hyn FJliFnJ
EXPERIMENT HIS BRAIN/ 
LIABILITY-MSB..
'YOU MEAN SURGICALLY 
INVERT HIS PERSONALITY f 
PUP-FLOP HIS 
OPINIONS AN? UKB 1A/B 
ArrmjPES ? )t) ch
WHflfSHISNAMB 
RECENTLY..
BEFORE WE PUT OUR 
CAPTIVE THROUGH THE 
PROCESS WE CALL 
"6EPHARPTIZATION,' MY 
COLLEAGUE MILL EXPLAIN 
THE PROCEDURE...
/
*GBPHARPTIZftTlON: 
FIRST WE TAKE 
A HEALTHY, IF NOT 
PARTICULARLY MATURE, 
EARTHLING BRAIN...
STEVE. .OH, STEVE... 
SOMEWHERE ABOVE THB 
CUDUPS... ABOVE THB SKY... 
HAVING THE APVBNTURE OF 
YOUR LIFE... CP
ANP THEN TURN HALF 
OF rr PARKER 
MEANER, NASTIER, 
MORE UNPRBPICTABLY
ishcthMB- o
THAT'S CHILL OUT.
I)h-ivBccthM: itcDiFo
YOU BOOB WAY TT'S 
/ FATAL.
$Y NON, STEVE HAP BEEN 
MISSING FOR SEVERAL 
WEEKS. THE PESSIMI5T '5 
(OROPTIMIST'S) VIEW 
WAS THAT, SAPLY, HE 
HAP'GONE TO BE WITH 
THE LORP," AS OPUS 
MXJLP SAY.I
BY-ANP-BY, A WAKE 
I WAS CALLEP IN STEVE'S 
MEMORY. FRIENDS 
1GATHERED TO REMEMBER.
STEVe WA5 A GOOP 
MAN...
HE MAS AN HONEST 
MAN... A PECENT 
MAN... A SINCERE 
MAN...
0t/r
He ms SSINCERE
i f#m.f
l.Hm 6G&J AftSKBP-. TO SAY A F(V WomTH ABOUT THB F(H6R QiMUVSS of jfw ooop,vece/m?
FftBNP
0 ; swe
< Vfim...
\ tm.
OM
fmmCHMummureHeam-p ABMMR.
5PtT FORTY ^ tfOf?
)im.

---------------------------------------------------

mw (giimi uwuir (Mips
OverloadBy Bob Jenkins
HEvi I Founjo 
A HOU'Se we CANl 
RENT NXT" VgAR I
g rv'-.V_
Tic keitnghSoil
OP RQDM, doesn't 
COST MoCU, AN P IS 
CLo^e To cArtPus I-fin------v QW
Inkspots
S it CoNOerifJBO?Hey, IT'S jieh Gen 
Two U.VTLB tr^otes 
INT^e $lOl Z've 
5eN worse...5S KX
It i tnaredlble...itS RSWOUNDtSG...
HS RERLL Y NERrOI
lirstfo
VC7
i
0 .
fREDp
By DoVi
By Kurt S
M FPav4 3P11r RPaX rPE1 cT4C71 UR n744Uan 7h71r4CUan 17Tgr cPU
RO1Uan s17TA hT.T4UPat "
The PlpSt Annual PULL COLOR Morle Parody 
[omioS 8eot^0n Ul premiere next, ltinnl

---------------------------------------------------

The Result is HilarityBy Cliff Snider
<XT*C OV 1 , \
\ WlA^C UTRS.
k^dt;<*i lx^ f /L? ftcWi
Pagee d/'lfoetoW KW
W I <ttV<ele!
\j o rvian uc
irash
'./* ^T^r-V0'^ 
JW-jT y&\)&k
jWe?f< likeVefii?3hi4' 
^a<X &3iC
Shaw
j-yeec
VAMPIRE **js
we tfiou>
iwTS^i^SjiN^y "T

---------------------------------------------------

collegiate crossword
Edward Julius Collegiate CW8716
ACROSS
1 Like test scores, 
sometimes 
7 Street workers
13 Famous gangster
14 Fierce feline
15 Paralyzes
16 Like a zebra
18 ------ Island
19 ------ Ballou
21 Cubic meter22 "Untouchables" 
character
23 Frolic about
25 Do newspaper 
work
26 Black cuckoo
27 ------ Mills
29 ----- de France
30 Like some test 
graders
32 Wrench
34 Razing material
35 Be nosy
36 Position of uneasi 
ness (2 wds.)
40 Compared
44 Ending for pay
45 Asian headdresses
47 Miss Gabor 12
48 Menu item 15
50 Feeling regret
51 French for eight 17
52 Shakespeares river, 20
et al. 23
54 India ------
55 Travesty 24
56 Mexican shawls 27
58 Philippine
headhunters 28
60 Shoot over again 3161 Geological period 33
62 Unusual feats 36
63 Like relief work 37
38
DOWN 39
1 Type of triangle 40
2 Summons (2 wds.) 41
3 Orbital point 42
4 ------ Lane 43
5 Chemical suffix 46
6 Say at great 49
length
- 7 Placards 51
8 Statute 539 ------libre 55
10 Type style 57
11 Tricked (2 wds.) 59
Antiseptic 
Involving punish
ment Prevent 
Gibbon 
Mythological 
creature 
Having a chat 
Relative of the 
civetSmall songbirds 
Part of TGIF
Comedian Louis -----
Israeli dances Hardy and North 
StoolObviously factual 
statements 
Longer and leaner 
Brain cell 
Thrown out Coin inscriptions 
Container 
Throw into dis
order 
Leverets 
GyratePoints in geometry 
Young pig Region of India
These are the answers to 
last week's puzzle.
MADAMSLUGPHDSICOME0R-LIIRAFLOOERINATENFERRs1i'AIsYMAEECHOCHAMBERIJAYOUcHLEIALAIsTAALPHAWILTcHAMBERLAINSTEELBELSURE
-IAEASYLEWCHAMBERMAIDFOOTBAL'ZcPARSELIL:OAm'LEATELMPINELITEASSNIsENT1DYNES

---------------------------------------------------

JOE STUDENT
CURRENT ADDRESS
Somewhere in Morewood Gardens 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
(412) 268-XXXX
PERMANENT ADDRESS
2875 Seaport Court 
NY, NY 18793 
(212) 456-9152
Objective High quality copies at a very low price
Education Carnegie Mellon University, B.S. in B.S., expected fall of 1989
Courses (Relevant course work as of Spring of 1987)
Resumes Multi-color papers
CONVENIENT LOCATIONS All types of resume stocks
Stationery High quality reproductions
Cover letters FAST SERVICE
Double sided copies Introductory student pricing
Folding Copies @ 3.5 <2
Experience
5/87-9/87Pizzaman. Pgh, PA. Worked side by side with many of the greats 
down at MOREPIZZA. Learned all I needed to know about cheese 
Got my photocopies at Carnegie Mellon Copy Centers.
Summer 87 No Job, but got great copies for only 3.5C!!!
i \ \ CariWie \\\ Mellon
Copy Centers
**Three locations right here on campus--
 UPP Bldg F x2970
 WEH 4th Floor x3729
Ml 4th Floor x5114
Hours  8:30 - 5:00

---------------------------------------------------

Bryan Roessler
Carnegie-Mellon University 
First Team Football  
Chemical Engin. Major 
3.97 GPA  
Senior 
Hometown: Baldwin, PA 
Chris Haupt
Carnegie-Mellon University 
First Team Football 
Architecture Major 
3.80 GPA 
Senior
Hometown: Pittsburgh, PA
Congratulations to the GTE Academic All-Americans.
They are the leaders of the team. But what makes them even more special is their outstanding 
academic records. They are the GTE Academic All-Americans, selected by the College Sports 
Information Directors of America (CoSIDA) for being high achieversin the game as well as the 
classroom. GTE is proud to be the official sponsor of this 35-year-old program and congratulates these student-athletes on their Academic All-American achievements.
I win ersaAkSr eppcekAtSrs iAsk
SELECTED BY CoSIDA
 Academic All-America is a registered service mark with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.

---------------------------------------------------

No Pane, no gain. 
Q: How many macho neander
thals does it take to screw in a 
lighbulb? 
A: Screw? Did someone say 
screw? 
R.- 
If you tickle me there again, 
Ill scratch your eyes out. 
-S. 
Nobody is more MAA than us. 
Dear PhiKapchemman, 
We need to have more smil
ing lessons! Thanks for under
standing about 2 weeks ago! 
-Love XOCE Wench 
To Andy, Carlos, Frank, Jason, 
Jeff, Rick and ShawnWere just writing to thank 
you sweet, smart, funny, and 
charming guys for being so 
patient, understanding and will
ing to participate in our study 
breaks. You all are such cuties 
even when youre pissed!
-R.&J.
PS: We write this with all 
sincerity.
PPS: None
>)
JavFossie-fossie one 
Fossie-fossie two 
Uganda, Uganda, Uganda 
...LENA!
-J
Nobodys more upset than Skippy Feltching!?!?
Sex is natural, sex is good 
Not everybody does it 
But everybody should 
Sex is natural, sex is fun 
Sex is best when its.. .one on one 
No mnage  trois please! 
WhitneySorry I missed your call. Get 
up some nerve, reach out and 
touch someone - me.
-Jim L.
MONKEY PUS UNITE!
Mark Chris
Jeff Scott
Dave Ken
Don Pete
Sashank Rob
Happy 20th Birthday Christopher 
Eric Berliner. I love you. 
-Marlowe
Bunny, Ertgrme + thou = meow!
Opus, PhD-to-be
Hey BrighteyesI really love your peaches, 
want to shake your tree.
-Maurice
To the pretty young lady at 
DTDs bar.. .Are you looking for 
any more flattery? 
Hey, its pupperoni! 
Two wheels are better than four, 
but 3 are optimal. 
Manute, clean up your shit! 
We, the Juniors, in order to form 
a more perfect Union, establish 
sleeptime, ensure academic 
simplicity, provide for some 
common sense, promote the 
general job fair, ensure the 
blessings of sanity to ourselves 
but not to faculty, dont maintain 
but diminish this prostitution of 
the Unguided States of Academia. 
= a few more tired Juniors
INDESCRIBABLY
INTENSE
PASSION...
(need I say more?)
JoelIm sorry I stabbed you to 
death. It was nothing personal - 
really.
-Sandy
The next head of CFA to replace 
Joel Thome should be:
a) willing to put the departments 
needs in front of his own per
sonal one
b) open-minded and willing to 
listen to any suggestions made by 
students and faculty that might 
improve CFA
c) Jerry Garcia
PS: Any comments can be made 
to me. 
Hey Donner 601: Thanks for the 
wallet! 
-Deb 
Correction: 
Stan 
Joe 
Michael
K.J.
Marty 
Mark 
Jack 
Keith 
Sean 
Tom 
DebSo now you know about me. 
-Signed, MESSED UP
Sculpture, you are soooo mad!! 
Furious with RAGE, purple with 
AGONY...
Send submissions to: 
Vox Populi 
c/o The Tartan 
Skibo Info. Desk
Classifieds
* ^...Jobs/Wanted ^
THERES A JOB FOR YOU IN A 
SUMMER CAMP!
The American Camping Association (NY) 
will make your application available to .over 
300 camps in the Northeast. Exciting oppor
tunities for college students and profession) als. Positions available: all land and water 
sports, arts & crafts, drama, music, dance, 
tripping, nature, R.N.s, M.D.s, Aides, 
kitchen, maintenance. College credit avail
able. Call or write for application. American 
Camping Association, 43 W. 23rd St., Dept 
(CM), New York, NY 10010, 1-800-777- 
CAMP.
I ON-CAMPUS JOBS  Find out what 
opportunities you could be missing out on. 
Pick up a job directory in the Financial Aid 
Office on the 2nd floor of Warner Hall or 
look at the B-Board under Workstudy 
(non-workstudy positions also) on TOPS.
WANTED: STUDENTS: Earn extra 
money today, for the holidays and Spring 
I Break 1988. No experience necessary, op
portunity to be your own boss, work your 
own hours, earn unlimited income, prizes 
and trips. Call today, Florida Sands Promo
tions (904) 257-2467
ARTS LOVERS  MUSEUM BUFFS  
THE CARNEGIE, Pittsburgh's oldest and 
largest cultural complex, is searching tor
exceptionally superb communicators to se
cure contributions by phone. Permanent, part 
time. 22 and 1/2 hours per week, 5 days per 
week. Morning or evening shifts. Guaran
teed salary with bonus. Excellent training. 
Commitment to the arts a must! Call 622- 
8840 form 9:30 am-noon only.
WE NEED YOUR HELP! The Committee 
on Drug and Alcohol Education is establish
ing a program and referral network to help 
students with substance abuse problems. If 
you are a recovering alcoholic or drug de
pendent student, we need your expert advice. 
If you can help call Chrissy at 621-2694.
WANTED: WOMEN SOFTBALL 
PLAYERS to play in city league, May-July. 
Lots of fun! Call Sharon x8502 or Suzanne 
x2976.
 '=- Housing =r
LOVELY AND SPACIOUS TWO BED
ROOM APT. Featuring sun porch, 
equipped kitchen, air conditioning, carpet
ing, free parking and much more. Only 5 
minutes from campus, near Shadyside Hos
pital. Only $489 June or July availability. 
Short or long term lease available. Call today
682-7025.
HOUSE FOR SALE: Oakland, newer 2- 
story brick, 3 bedrooms, integral garage, 
quiet street, move-in condition, minutes 
from University. 681-6604.
GREAT SUMMER HOUSING  Excel 
lent furnished rooms near campus by week or
month during the summer. Featuring maid 
service and linen, all utilities paid, private 
bath, parking and more. 682-7025.
SQUIRREL HILL 7-ROOM FUR
NISHED HOUSE, 4 bedrooms, 2 1/2 baths, 
max 3 students, $225 per graduate student + 
utilities. Also available to faculty and family. 
Call 824-2998. Available May 1.
---------- Services ~
RESEARCH PAPERS: 15,278 available! 
Catalog $2. Research, 11322 Idaho, 
#206XT, Los Angeles 90025. Toll free (800) 
351-0222, Ext. 33. Visa/MC or COD
EXCLUSIVE SPRING BREAK OFFER!
Order your Spring Break 1988 Survival Kit 
for only $14.95. Kit includes: I survived 
Spring Break silk-screened t-shirt, bever
age wrap, condoms, and Spring Break bonus 
surprise. This is a limited offer. Send check 
or money order with t-shirt size (S-M-L-XL) 
to: Florida Sands Promotions, P.O. Box 
2720, Daytona Beach, FL 32015-2720/ 
(904) 673-4320. Pick up order forms at Ride 
Board, Skibo Hall.
MINUTEMAIDS: WE CUSTOMIZE 
OUR SERVICE TO YOUR HOUSE
KEEPING NEEDS. Serving Pittsburgh 8 
years, insured & bonded, 682-3860. Free 
estimates.
WORD PROCESSING TYPING  Stu
dent papers, Resumes, Letters. Can store for 
future use. Reasonable rates. Call Kathy 
(826-0458) weekdays after 5 or weekends.
TYPING SERVICE  Reasonable prices. 
Call 741-4838.
For Sale ...
1979 DATSUN B210 FOR SALE. Auto 
matic transmission, AM/FM cassette. Great 
for college. $700 or best offer. Call Val 
x4242/x8822.
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN TICKETS 
FOR SALE. March 20th Pittsburgh show. 
Call 683-9550 10:00 am to 8:00 pm only. If 
no answer leave message: including name, 
phone number, number of tickets needed, 
and best offer.
Miscellaneous
PREGNANT? NEED HELP? 
CONFIDENTIAL counseling  Free preg
nancy test  262-1220, Airport Area Crisis 
Pregnancy Center.
BUFFALO WINGS SPECIAL EVERY 
THURSDAY EVENING, Sod Bar, Semple 
Street.
PREGNANT AND MAY NOT FEEL 
READY FOR PARENTING? YOU MAY 
WANT TO CONSIDER PERSONAL 
ADOPTION. We are a cookie-baking 
mommy and teddy-bear daddy hoping to 
give a child a warm and secure home. We'll 
offer you a chance to meet and talk with us, 
medical expenses and housing. Most impor
tant, its ALL legal and confidential. Call 
anytime collect (412) 221-8622.


---------------------------------------------------

Page D16The TartanMarch 15,1988
Events
Movies
The Whales of August, starring Lillian Gish, 
Bette Davis, Ann Southern, Vincent Price and 
Harry Carey Jr. Two sisters, who have spent 
60 summers on a Maine Island, come face to 
face with change and emotional dependency. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
The Mozart Brothers. Walter, an innovative 
opera director about to stage Mozarts Don 
Giovanni, fervently informs his cast that the 
works plot is catastrophic, that its libretto is 
idiotic, and that ultimately, it requires more 
eroticism, sweat and silence! So begins this 
outrageous comedy about an opera company 
at the mercy of its avant-garde director. 
Filmmakers at the Fulton, 101 Sixth Street, 
Downtown. For more information call 471 - 
9700.
Lectures
Department of Metallurgical Engineering 
and Materials Science Seminar. Dr. James 
H. Cox, Bethlehem Steel Corp., speaks on 
Analysis of the Requirements for the Direct 
Strip Casting of Carbon Steel at 3 pm in WeH 
7500. Informal discussions and refreshments 
follow in WeH 2325.
Department of Chemical Engineering 
Seminar. Professor Giles R. Cokelet, Univer
sity of Rochester, speaks on Fluid Dynamic 
Aspects of Blood Flow through Microvascular Systems at 11 am in DH 1112. Coffee and 
pastries served at 10:45 in Conference Room 
1102.
Special Events
Mothers Day Out. Need a break from your 
daily routine? Want a chance to meet other 
women that share your interests? Then get. 
involved with the Mothers Day Out program. 
Mothers Day Out is a non-profit, non-sectar
ian, volunteer run organization which meets 
every Tuesday at Rodef Shalom Temple in 
Oakland for three, 10-week terms during the 
school year. Quality child care is provided on 
premises for children, aged 3 months to kin
dergarten, of participants. Registration is 
open for the 88 Spring Term (begins March 
22nd). Fee for a mother and child for the 10- 
week term is $55. For more information call: 
521-3612. $5 off tuition charge for first time 
members only.
Jewish Meditation and Spirituality with 
Rabbi Bob Love Kaplan at 7:30 pm at the 
Jewish University Center, 160 N. Craig Street. 
Rabbi Love discusses the philosophy of the 
Jewish soul and spirit and shows you the 
how-tos of Jewish meditation.
French Table. The Modem Languages De
partment sponsors a French Language table at
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall. 
Alpha Phi Omega, the National Service Fra
ternity, meets every week at 8 pm in Breed 
Hall, MM 103. All are welcome.
WRCT Schedule. Rock Garden,- live per
formances taped or received by WRCT at 8:30 
pm. Topic: YoLaTengo. WRCTsfrequency 
is 88.3 FM.16 Wednesday
Movies
The Whales of August, Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95. 
The Mozart Brothers. Filmmakers at the 
Fulton, 101 Sixth Street, Downtown. For 
more information call 471-9700. 
Deutschland-Bleiche Mutter, sponsored by 
German Film Series. PH 100 at 7 pm. In 
German with printed English sub-titles.
Special Events
Explore your Jewish Heritage. Jewish Uni
versity Center, 160 N. Craig, at 7:30 pm. All 
you wanted to know about Judaism but were 
afraid to ask. No previous Judaic knowledge 
required. Kosher dinner available before class 
from 5:30-7:30 for $4.85.
Educational Action on Latin America 
group meeting. Skibo Rm. 112 at 7 pm. All 
are welcome. For more information call Peter 
at x7651.
Learn to Juggle! The Pittsburgh Juggling 
Club meets every Wednesday and Saturday at 
4:30 in Greymatter. Everyone invited. 
Spanish Table. The Modem Language De
partment sponsors a Spanish Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
I 7 ThursdayJL. # V
Movies
The Whales of August, Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95. 
The Mozart Brothers. Filmmakers at the 
Fulton, 101 Sixth Street, Downtown. For 
more information call 471 -9700.
My Life as a Dog, sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm and 10 pm. Admission 
$1.
Lectures
Department of Electrical And Computer 
Engineering Graduate Seminar. Professor 
Antti Koivo, Purdue, speaks at 3:30 pm in 
Scaife Auditorium. Refreshments are served 
at 3:15 pm.
Department of Psychology Colloquium.
Dr. Goldman-Rakic, Yale School of Medi
cine, speaks on Regulation of Behavior by 
Representational Memory: Role of Prefrontal
Cortex at 4 pm in the Adamson Wing, BH.
Workshops
Womens Issues Collective Workshop. The
Womens Issues Collective invites students, 
faculty and staff to discuss various provoca
tive questions about women and society in 
small groups at 5 pm in Skibo rm. 12.
Special Events
The Theolog is In. From 11 am to 3 pm in 
Grey Matter, members of CMs Campus 
Ministry Council are available for conversa
tion on matters of theology, ethics or any
thing else youve always wanted to know 
about religion but were afraid to ask. Please 
stop by.
German Table. The Modem Language 
Department sponsors a German Language 
table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall. 
WRCT Schedule. Sportsline, WRCT cam
pus sports talk show at 8:30 pm. WRCTs 
frequency is 88.3 FM.
f--------------------------------------------------------
Movies
The Whales of August, Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Thy Kingdom Come, Thy Will Be Done.
The disturbing link between Americas cur
rent Christian Fundamentalist revival and the 
masterminds of extreme right-wing politics is 
examined in this incisive documentary. Glar
ing light is shed on the PTL; Dallas, the 
buckle on the Bible Belt; and Jim and 
Tammys Heritage U.S.A. Fun Park. 
Filmmakers at the Fulton, 101 Sitfth Street, 
Downtown. For more information call 471 - 
9700.
48 Hours, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 
at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. Admission 
$1.
Lectures
Carnegie Mellon Objectivist Forum. Dr.
Edwin Locke speaks on Self Esteem at 8 pm 
in Breed Hall, MM 103. Question period will 
follow. Admission $3; $1 for CMU students 
and free for members. The membership fee is 
$25 for the Spring semester. Club members 
may meet with speakers before the lecture at 4 
pm.
Special Events
Kasamon Ballet Company. On tour in 
America, direct from Warsaw Maly Theater, 
Poland, in one performance only, Jan Pietrzak, 
political satirist well known for his mono
logues supporting the Solidarity Movement. 
The troupe is sponsored locally by the Ka
samon Ballet. The performance takes place at 
7:30 pm, at the Winchester-Thurston School
in Shadyside. Tickets available at the door. 
For information call 363-4217.
Shabbat dinner. Come and enjoy Friday 
night dinner with the crowd at JUC. Reserva
tions are required by preceding Wednesday. 
Jewish University Center, 160 N. Craig Street, 
at 5:30 pm. Price for dinner is $4.25 for 
members and $5.25 for non-members. Call 
621-8875 for details.
19 Saturday
~\
Movies
The Whales of August, Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95. 0
Thy Kingdom Come, Thy Will Be Done. 
Filmmakers at the Fulton, 101 Sixth Street, 
Downtown. For more information call 471- 
9700.
Dirty Dancing, sponsored bySDC Films. DH 
2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. 
Admission $1.
Special Events
Learn to Juggle! The Pittsburgh Juggling 
Club meets every Wednesday and Saturday at 
4:30 in Greymatter. Everyone invited.
Movies
The Whales of August, Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Thy Kingdom Come, Thy Will Be Done.
Filmmakers at the Fulton, For more informa
tion call 471-9700.
Sudden Impact, sponsored by AB Films. DH ) 
at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. Admission 
$1.
Movies
The Whales of August, Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Thy Kingdom Come, Thy Will Be Done.
Filmmakers at the Fulton, 101 Sixth Street, 
Downtown. For more information call 471 - 
9700.
Special Events
Japanese Language Table. Sponsored by the 
Modem Language Department, 11:30 am in 
the Morewood dining hall.
WRCT Schedule. Freedom of Speech, a 
student debate on controversial issues at 8:30 
pm. Topic: Racism in America: Its not dead 
yet! WRCTs frequency is 88.3 FM.
Keurms>FOR. 20 Bocks! 
r
CALL Zit-2/HPRINT OURMei J,
aid v'h// jW \fr/Nw\ tV t I// 1/, K\//r ^ \(/sr ML Tart /a i/x*' f/Ai/> 1/ i V
