The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 81, Number 18, February 24, 1981.
Financial aid plans changed;
grants, loans
by Jim Ralsom
Ronald Reagan had more bad news Iasi 
Wednesday for those college students who 
receive financial aid. Reagan announced in 
his address to Congress numerous proposed 
budget cuts totalling $41 billion for the 1982 
fiscal year, including cuts of almost $2 bil
lion in financial aid programs.
The student loan programs and the Pell 
Grant (formerly the Basic Educational 
Opportunity Grant- BEOG) will feel the 
greatest impact of the aid cuts.
CMIJs Director of Financial Aid, 
Walther Cathie, outlined the effect that these 
budget cuts will have.
Guaranteed Student Loans
Last October the Carter Administration 
announced changed in the Guaranteed Stu
dent Loan (GSL) program which today 
costs the government over $2 billion a year 
compared with only $121 million just three
altered most
years ago. Cathie stated, CMU had to hire a 
new person to process the GSL applications 
which increased from 500 in 1978 to 4,000 
today.
Carter raised the interest rate, effecctive 
January 1, 1981, from the original 7% to 9% 
for new borrowers, and decreased from 9 
months to 6 months the grace period that 
students have after leaving school before 
beginning repayment.
Under the Carter administration, anyone 
was eligible for a GSL, regardless of income. 
Cathie said that this has had bad effects and 
that the program has got to go. More 
money has been used than was expected. 
Students, he continued, are paying for it 
indirectly because the work study program, 
the supplemental grant program and the 
NDSL have not been increased the way that 
they could have been.
continued on page 4
Baseball Club funds cut
Wife of ex-president dies
by Jennifer Hutton
The Student Senate Finance committee 
refused to allocate any further funds to the 
Baseball Club for its coachs salary 
committee reached this decision at last Wed
nesdays meeting. Baseball Club president, 
Bernie Lawrence said that without money 
for a coach, We will be able to get through 
next year, but after that, it will definitely 
fold.
Finance chairman, Richard Hanusek, 
said that the committee was simply follow
ing (Senate) fiscal policy in performing 
this action. Hanusek explained that last 
Novembers fiscal policy was altered to 
accomodate the Baseball Club. Prior to 
November 1980, fiscal policy provided fora 
three year funding period for a clubs coach 
if the club raised 33% of their budget. The 
time period was then extended to four years 
after requests made by the Baseball Club 
with the 33% fund raising stipulation still 
binding.
Hanusek commented that since Senate 
works with a limited amount of money, and 
there are more and more organizations every 
year, in order to fulfill Baseball Clubs needs 
^ Aey might knock out the funding for Frisbee, Hockey or Archery Clubs. He said,
photo by Doug Ellis
Bubbling with enthusiasm, Tri-Delts gathered to welcome their seven new pledges last Sunday afternoon.
Louise Hamer Warner, wife of retired 
Camegie-Mellon University President John
C. Warner, died at her home in Saint Barna
bas Village, Gibsonia, Pa. on Monday, Ftbruary 16.
Mrs. Warner took an active part in CMU 
events and was a well-known and popular 
figure on campus. She served on the boards 
of several civic organizations, notably the 
Visiting Nurses Association, and the 
Womens Committee of the Art Museum 
(Carnegie Institute).
In 1923, she earned her bachelors degree 
in economics at Indiana University. She was 
a member of Delta Gamma, Phi Beta
Kappa, and Mortar Board.
Mrs. Warner was bom in Huntington, 
Indiana in 1900. Her father was an attorney 
and her mother, before her marriage, was a 
school teacher.
Dr. John C. Warner was President of 
Camegie-Mellon University from 1950 to 
1965. Besides her husband, she is survived by 
two sons, William Hamer of Minneapolis, 
and Thomas Payton of Holland, Michigan, 
and three grandchildren.
Funeral arrangements will be private. 
Die family suggests that memorial contri
butions be sent to C'-arnegie-Mellon 
University.
Mechanical Bull to highlight Carnival
by Monica J. Cellio
A mechanical bull and something differ
ent in the line of fireworks may highlight 
this years Spring Carnival.
Although Carnival planning has expe
rienced a few setbacks, most of the work on 
Midway planning has been completed. 
According to Rob Morris of the Midway 
committee, 27 of the 30 available plots on 
Midway have been assigned, 25 for booths 
and two for A Phi O. All themes have been 
picked and organizations planning booths 
are now at work on them.
According to Mindie Jo Snyder, chair
man of the Midway committee, the schedule 
of events is almost done and specifics for 
opening and closing ceremonies have 
already been planned. Snyder stated that the 
committee is planning something a little 
different with fireworks, which will be a 
surprise. There are also specific plans for 
entertainment which are not being 
announced yet.
Rides for the Carnival have been booked, 
and according to Snyder there may be a 
couple of new ones. It has not yet been 
decided which games will be used this year.
One of the biggest attractions is expected 
to be a mechanical bull which the commit
tee will be renting for the weekend. Various 
speeds will be available and safety precau
tions will be taken.
The logo for Carnival has been designed 
and designs for the T-shirts have been final
ized. Other means of publicity are being 
invesugated, such as balloons.
Right now we are in the contract signing 
stage, Snyder stated, referring to contracts 
with the University and city. In addition, 
Campus Security has spoken with booth 
planners, and the only thing yet to be 
decided is Midway watch. Shifts will be 
assigned on March 9.
A committee of five is responsible for 
judging booths. One person has been 
chosen already, and the Midway committee 
hopes to have some professionals in design, 
engineering, and art on the judging 
committee.
The budget for Carnival was approved at 
last weeks Student Senate meeting. Snyder 
wishes to thank Senate members for the 
approval.
Once you set a precedent, you are more or 
less legally liable to also find coaches for the 
other clubs. He also believes that if 
Hockey can exist without a paid coach, so 
can Baseball.
Lawrence disagrees with the positon of 
the Finance committee chairman. He 
believes that it is not possible to compare the 
Baseball Clubs need for a coach with the 
Hockey Clubs need for one. In regard to 
funding the Baseball Club for a coach while 
continued on page 6
piiuiu uy L/UUg Hills
Morewood 3-E residents express their opinion of the proposed Food Service plans.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Playing Reagans budget odds: Would you take 80 to 3?
For once, Americans were hoping that an 
elected official wouldnt keep his campaign 
promises, and for once, he kept them. In an 
address to Congress last Wednesday, President 
Reagan announced the elimination or 
curtailment of 83 federal programs.
Of these 83 programs, most Americans are 
directly affected by at most, two or three. We 
here at an institute of higher learning will be 
affected by new restrictions for the Guaranteed 
Student Loan (GSL) program and the 
curtailment of the Basic Educational 
Opportunity Grant (BEOG) or Pell Grant 
Program.
Many of Reagans proposals aim at cleaning 
up fraud and waste. Since Jimmy Carter lifted 
the income ceiling for borrowers of the GSL, 
many middle and upper income families have 
abused the program by borrowing and 
reinvesting money they did not need. Reagan 
proposes to eliminate the abuse of the program 
by these families.
Revisions in the Pell Grant program will 
also serve to divert funds away from the upper 
income classes and to the truly deserving 
needy, as Reagan states.
Carters policies were aimed at helping the 
vast majority of Americans in the middle
middle class. Reagans policies will have the 
most disastrous effect on this same group, for 
they will become ineligible for both grants and 
loans.
The question is, of course, just who are the 
truly deserving needy? Will a middle class 
family be able to send three children to college 
anymore? Should they be able to?
Before we align forces to combat the passage 
of these two proposals, think of the other 81 
revisions that we welcome as necessary. Are we 
willing to start making sacrifices? Big 
sacrifices?
The New Liberalism: choosing your causes carefully
"Traditional Liberalism no longer works in 
a stagflation economy; the next step must be 
a new liberalism.
Michael Harrington, Author and former 
U.S. Representative 
(D-Mass.)
by Bill Kapner
A new liberal agenda will serve two cru
cial purposes: it will enable liberals to re
focus their efforts, permitting them to 
maintain effectiveness and credibility and it 
will enable the Democradc party to attract a
more unified, mainstream constituency. A 
hard look and re-evaluation of traditional 
liberal approaches to the nations problems 
is required. Some suggestions: 
Traditionally, the development of federal 
wilderness lands and scenic areas of the West 
has been a bugaboo to liberals. But, if we 
have any hope of achieving energy inde
pendence, moderately intensive exploration 
and development efforts are needed. 
Planned development now, with an empha
sis on restoration, will be much more benefi
cial in the long run. There is a danger of 
waiting too long and being forced to
develop frantically with potentially disas
trous effects for the landscape and 
environment.
In addition to planned exploration and 
development, conservation is essential to 
any hope of energy independence. Energy 
conservation should be adopted by liberals 
as one of their chief concerns. It is a measure 
consistent with their principles and ripe to 
serve as an ideological rallying cry.
Liberals emphatically denounce nuclear 
power; yet no nuclear power would cer
tainly lead to a massive reliance on coal. 
Large scale coal burning would, of course,
letters
Asking fellow students to wake up...
Editor
Against our will. I couldnt have said it 
any better myself. Last weeks editorial in 
The Tartan not only awakened me to the 
idiocy erf next years proposed food service 
plans but once again demonstrated the 
insensitivity and unfairness of the 
administration when faced with financial 
troubles.
Both erf the proposed food plans 
presented at the meeting between the 
Student Dorm Council and housing and 
food service representatives a week ago were 
not only unreasonable but very possibly 
illegal.
Under the first plan, students living in 
dorms without cooking facilities will be 
forced to pay a $50 fee for which they will 
receive a 13% discount on any additional 
money that they then deposit into their 
ValiDine accounts. The student will receive 
nothing for his 550, just the privelege of 
using his ValiDine account, and with 
inflation checking in at around 12% or 13%, 
the discount should bring next years prices 
down to just about where they are today. 
Some discount.
The second plan merely requires a nonrefundable deposit of $300 into a ValiDine 
account. The botton line there is Use it or 
lose it. Funds not used by the end of the 
spring semester will be quickly 
commandeered by the University.
Such tactics erf contractual and economic 
coersion cannot be tolerated. Our right to 
freedom of choice must be respected.
The reason behind such desperate moves 
is that the University Food Service 
operations are just not making enough 
money. More specifically, they are losing 
money, and lots of itabout $7,000 every 
week, according to the most recent estimate 
by Oscar Mayer, direc tor erf the Universitys 
Auxiliary services.
Never would such an establishment be 
able to survive in the free market. Any 
restaurant that cant get its act together well 
enough to make even a small profit would 
surely founder in the real world. The
University Food Service has become 
Carnegie-Mel Ions own Chrysler 
corporation, and we as students are being 
forced to bail them out of financial strife 
caused by their own mismanagement and 
inefficiency.
If the University Foexl Service cant make 
enough money to keep itself above water, 
then there are many other steps that can be 
taken besides assigning a flat fee to our 
housing contracts. May I suggest an old 
favorite among those who rely upon the 
success of such operations for their 
livelihood? Why not make efforts to 
stimulate the market and increase the use of 
food service cafeterias.
Im sure that More-Pizza is making an 
enormous profit. And why not? The food is 
terrific, the prices are very reasonable and the 
service and atmosphere are sure to bring us 
back night after night.
With changes and improvements in 
operation, Im sure that hundreds of 
additional students could easily be lured to 
eat in the University cafeterias. Youve got 
the most ideal locations, and extremely
...and smell the coffee
convenient method of payment and a 
guaranteed market of almost 5,000 students. 
The surrounding community shouldnt be 
able to offer any competition.
And to you, Mark Marsella, head of the 
S.D.C. committee that negotiated with die 
Food Service, you claim that the rates have 
been toned down from an original fee of 
$80 per semester, as if this would in some 
sense made the whole idea more acceptable. 
If their original plans called for a $1,000 fee 
and you bargained them down to $200, 
would you still consider your negotiations a 
victory? It doesnt matter where you started 
from, or where you end up, the whole idea 
stinks, and we as students dont like it. Not 
one bit.
When we sign our housing contracts for 
next year, we expect to sign just that, a 
housing contractnothing more, nothing 
less. Any tie-in, whether legal or illegal, 
just cannot be tolerated. The students must 
be guaranteed their right to eat wherever 
they choose and without financial penalty.
Barry J. Stiefel
Editor
Dear students of CMU:
We are facing a threat to our economic 
well being and your assistance is urgently 
needed to curtail it.
I am referring to the recent proposals by 
Food Service for the upcoming year. In plan 
one we are going to be compelled to pay $50 
per semester for the privilege of using 
Foexl Service whether or not we actually 
enroll. This fee is going to be levied on 
everyone who lives in a dormitory. In effect 
you can add on $100 per year to your room 
ce>st with no return. Plan two would force us 
to purchase a minimum of $300 worth of 
Vali-dine. Once again all dormitory 
residents we>uld be affected. Ive heard of 
leading a horse to water, but forcing him to 
drink is carrying it a bit t<x> far.
I really have to hand it to Oscar Mayer and 
Ken Stover; they have gall. Besides being
grossly unfair (and probably illegal) both of 
these plans are an insult of the greatest 
magnitude to the student bexly. These two 
men are going to tell us how to spend our
money!
Foexi Service must realize that these plans 
are unacceptable and that they should be 
scrapped and new ones formulated from 
scratch.
In order to accomplish this I ask you to 
write to Oscar Mayer at: Warner Hall 301 
and/or Ken Stover at: Fexxl Service, Skibo 
Hall. Register your objection! Let yourstlf 
be heard! If we can get 1000 letters opposing 
these plans to inundate those responsible for 
them then our chances are gocxi. Even if you 
only write one sentence please participate. 
Its your right to determine how you are 
going to spend your money that is at stake.
Paul Kami in
cause severe environmental problems. The 
issue, then, deserves more open considera
tion than liberals are currendy affording it. 
Perhaps liberals should re-focus their efforts 
to insuring the safety of existing and new 
nuclear power plants.
Instead of automatically saying no to 
increases in the overall military budget, tra
ditional liberals should begin examining 
line items and searching for ways to increase 
military efficiency. Patricia Schroeder, 
Democratic representative from Denver, 
(and a Democrat to watch out for in the 
future) is a leading watchdog of efficiency in 
the armed services. For instance, she stresses 
the fact that a modestly steep pay increase for 
soldiers will improve the quality of the 
armed forces-even more so than massive 
expenditures for weaponry.
Traditional liberalism and the Demo
cratic Party have always looked after the 
interests of American labor. Today produc
tivity is probably the most pressing need of 
our economy. Sen. Paul Tsongas, a leader of 
the Neo-liberal movement, claims "When 
was the time you heard a union demand 
productivity gains as part of its contract? 
Look at the auto industry-wonderful wage 
settlements but no talk about productivity 
and fuel efficient cars. The result?300,000 
union people out of work.
These are just some of the issues liberals 
must address and adapt to if liberalism is to 
remain an influential force in todays world.
Bill Kapner is a senior majoring in history 
and is a political columnist for The Tartan. 
This article is the second in a series for the 
future of liberalism.
"m 
Editor-in-Chief............................Richard Corel ici
Associate Editor.......................................Bob Ixiglity
Managing Editor............................Robert Zusinan
Business Manager.................................1 inda Hetrick
Asst. Business Manager...............Pam Shugernian
News Editor....................................Jennifer Hutton
AssL News Editors.................................Alice Alfonsi
Monica Celli
Features Editor.......................... Maureen Brennan
Asst. Features Editor....................Kathy kruninKi*
Entertainment Editor........................Adam Ltiizu'
Sports Editor..........................................Cregg Bossld
Dossier Editor........................................Lynn hpsU'in
Photography Editors.....................Quick Oiidekd
Doug Kill'
Contributing Editors..............................Jim Balsotn
Sue B<W 
Doug kirsop
Produc tion Manager........................Yin<e Cnil'10
Production Staff...........................................Bob 1 l;l11
Mark Shell*1
Qtpvrighl ' IWI 1>\ I lir I tirimi. Hit fr'.diloiial B**111 
iwws tin i^ln lo withhold lioin publication a'* 
iop\ it ktlUN unlit loi pul>li<;ili<Mi. I liloii.il ()lli 
Skilx .'id. (IJ2) "7H-2III. litisiiH-Y> Olliics: Skil
( HL'i 21 hotii plioiK . (
.itliliiss: li\ 17. S 1 I ile > J.nL 1'iitsbiugli IVV 1 r*1 
Funded b% the Attivitirs Fir.
All rights irvmil.

---------------------------------------------------

letters__________
Your Senator writes
Editor:
As a student, and Student Senator, there 
are many issues that concern me. 
Increasingly, I have become worried about 
the emphasis of Camegie-Mellon as a
university.
In its last issue (February 10) The Tartan 
reprinted a letter from Andrew Carnegie. In 
it, Carnegie stressed that the education of 
youth, from Pittsburgh, in technical skills, 
was his original goal. Well, the goal of 
Pittsburgh students has since expanded, to 
cover students from across the nation, and 
from other nations as well. Also, CMU is 
not just teaching technical skills anymore; it 
is providing a professional education in 
many, diverse areas. However, we must 
insure that Carnegies fundamental goal, 
the education of youth, is preserved.
The question is  who is doing the 
educating? The Administrations 
philosophy has been to raise tuition costs, 
partially to attract better students. Even if 
this is plausible, students are paying good 
money to be taught by professors, 
professionals in their fields. I cannot believe 
anyone should be deceived into purchasing
a product that fails to meet its promisethe 
promise of a professional education, taught 
by professionals.
Professors must remain active in their 
field, keep informed of the latest 
developments, maintaining their expertise. 
But, they must keep a perspective. Professors 
must have a balanced approacha proper 
mix of publication and education.
Of course, attracting and retaining 
quality educators is important. Their 
working conditions, pay and benefit levels, 
tenure based upon merit, are vital. The 
results of all these affect students and faculty 
alike. Being an educator at CMU must be a 
positive position.
To the students, whatever you think 
about the above, I want to remind you that 
your Student Senate is open to you. We meet 
every Tuesday night at 6:30 p.m., in the 
Wherrett Room. Every student can speak 
there; and every Senator has weekly office 
hours. Drop by and see your Senator. Tell 
him or her what is on your mind. Get 
involved!!!Sincerly yours, 
Ralph M. Sherman
Concerning an eagles talons: Neil Ward writes back
Editor:
Treleaven and Ball are pleased to note 
that in July 1959 Castro launched an 
expedition against the Dominican 
Republic but dont mention that the U.S. 
invaded and conquered the Dominican 
Republic in 1965, in order to prevent the 
assumption of a power by a constitutionally 
elected Communist regime. The modem 
history of Latin America gives ample 
witness that the U.S. not only prefers fascist 
control of the region but effectively insures 
its endurance. State Department documents 
obtained under the Freedom of Information 
Act by Stephen Schlesinger in 1978 prove 
that the 1954 putsch of a land-reformist 
government in Guatemala was literally 
conceived of and run at the highest levels of 
the American government in closest cahoots 
with the United Fruit Company and under 
the overall direction of Secretary of State 
John Foster Dulles backed by President
Eisenhower. (See Schlesingers article in 
The Nation, 10/28/78.)
I dont have to squint and be vague about 
mysterious laissez-faire mechanisms. It is a 
matter of public record (and reported and 
acknowledged to the Securities and 
Exchange Commission) that the Phillip 
Morris tobacco company influenced 
legislation in the Dominican Republic by 
bribes and gratuities in order to preserve the 
sovereignty of its cash-crop dictation. 
Phillip Morris gets its profits, you get your 
nicotine and the Dominican Republic does 
not grow the staple food it needs.
One analysis of the U.S. management of 
its client states in Latin America notes 
that, The United States has actively 
cooperated in overthrowing reformers or 
radicals in democratic systems (Brazil, 
Chile), but it has never been able to throw its 
weight toward democracy and away from 
subfascist gangsters... (Chemsky and
Herman, The Washington Connection and 
Third World Fascism, South End Press, 
Boston, 1979). Democracy, as Nelson 
Rockefeller puts it, is a very subtle and 
difficult problem.
It is ridiculous to contemplate Treleaven 
and Balls classical humanist pose that 
Latin Americas salvation lies peaceful 
exchanges of ideas. A New York Times 
article dated 7/30/78 attributes the 
emergence of three marxist guerilla 
organizations in El Salvador to election 
fraud during El Salvadors 1972 and 1977 
elections. The correspondants conclusion is 
reasonable, if understated. I dont say that 
any political change brought about by force 
of arms, guerilla arms included, bodes well 
with me, but the political climate we have 
sponsored makes our objecting to armed 
revolution in Latin America under 
whoevers financing very hypocritical. I will 
add that our posturing about human
Welcoming Mr. Ward into the 20th Century
To Neil A. Ward, Guest Columnist:
One of the advantages of living in the 
small, semi-suburban community of North 
Huntingdon Township, Pennsylvania, 
which surrounds Irwin Borough, is that you 
have opportunities to view things that oth
ers never see. You can view a high school 
close up and feel personal pride in knowing 
that its students later graduate with honors 
in engineering at CMU, MIT, Lehigh, the 
Naval Academy, and Ohio State, or are 
Picked to be one of only eight members of 
the U.S. Mathletes that competes interna
tionally, or are members of the most widely 
acclaimed band in the mid-east, or are 
members of state championship athletic 
teams.
You are also exposed on a tegular basis 
through the letters to the editor column of 
the Standard Observer, our local daily, to a 
well-organized letter campaign managed by 
what has to be one of the strongest units of 
[he John Birch Society. Until reading the 
Guest Column in the February 10, 1981, 
edition of The Tartan, I believed that the 
Person signing the Birch letters, usually a 
Mr Donald Sudsima, actually composed 
them. (No, I really didnt believe that. Some 
of their members whom I know and whose 
(tters I have seen in print couldnt fill one 
S1(( of a Holiday Inn postcard without a 
Shost.) After reading Neil A. Ward's column
I am now convinced that there is a writing 
service that sells canned letters to editors 
with appropriate blanks left to be filled in by 
the writer. With the can you get two sets of 
instructions: one set for the right uses of 
such code words as Somoza, the Trilateral 
Commission, Panama Canal, Chile, Marx
ist, SDS, etc.,and the other set includes such 
words and phrases as John Birch Society, 
Cuba, Marxist, big business, etc. And there 
is even some boilerplate that both use well 
such as, Apologies to any of your friends 
who have been tortured and blown up, but 
war is hell. Translated, that means I didnt 
have a M-16 or AK47 slug tearing through 
my skin, so why should I care if it happened 
to your friend, nor have I had to experience 
your mental anguish brought on by your 
being a near miss. Also, both parties find 
one sentence to be most susceptible to the 
interchange, And although Soviet domina
tion may be another risk to El Salvadors 
autonomy, the risk is well calculated and 
has paid off well, in terms of quality of life, 
in Cuba. Substitute fascist for Soviet, Chile 
for El Salvador and Cuba and instandy you 
have a phrase for a John Birch Society letter.
Mr. Ward, I suggest that you stop mailing 
in your column from the Rip Van Winkle 
Bowling Tournament. The intellectual 
integrity and journalistic honesty of the 
column is equivalent to the writings of those
who state that there couldnt have been a 
Holocaust because there were only 800,000 
Jews in Europe in 1941 and now there aremany more than that number in Europe, 
that there was no Dachau, Auschwitz, and 
others. I suggest upon your return from the 
Catskills that you check the 1961-1980 edi
tions of some popular phrase almanacs and 
look up the significance of such phrases as 
Gdansk, Poznan, Dubcek, Indiantown Gap, 
Pennsylvania, Fort Chaffee, Arkansas, Boat 
People, Gulag, Denisovich, Peruvian 
Embassy. Go to Irwin, Pennsylvania, and 
interview the Due family, look into the faces 
of aged Cubans who came last summer so 
they could at least die in freedom, reflect on 
why Russian villagers were able to get their 
first full nights sleep in twenty years only 
when the German army, not to be confused 
with Nazi brown shirts, captured their 
towns. After you have caught up on the 
recent and some old political and economic 
history, call Mr. Sudsima and the two of you 
could arrange to buy your letters together 
and get a quantity discount. Since you have 
an association with civil engineering, the 
two of you might also enjoy a discussion on 
the theories of convergence and parallaxis as 
applied to politics.
Yours truly, 
Alvin P. Brannick
rights violations in Cuba or the Soviet 
Union buckles in view of our own cynical 
adventures in Cambodia, Chile and more 
places that I can count on fingers and toes. 
Castros political prisoners may be an 
appalling detail, but a close reading of their 
meaning in terms of his governments 
survival brings forth the contrapuntal 
example of the fall of Allendes Chile in 
1973. The Allende (Communist) 
governments constitutional election did 
not enable Allende to emprison his 
opposition, and Allende, unlike Castro, was 
violently ousted by the Chilean military 
(with U.S. backing). Cuba has instituted 
land-reform and crop-diversity and has 
achieved widespread literacy. Chile is back 
with the thugs.
Another very touching testament to the 
state-of-affairs emerged in an article by 
Richard Eder of last weeks (2/18/81) New 
York Times. Eder notes that France is 
balking at the U.S.s invitauon to take a 
position against the Salvadorian insurgents 
for fear of hurting its own diplomatic ties 
with West Germany, which supports the 
insurgents. Step back and enjoy the 
spectacle of developed nations shuffling the 
fate of an undeveloped one as if it were a 
small puzzle-piece in the fabric of European 
trade-relations! It is a sobering observation, 
too, that the U.S. government has taken the 
unexplained deaths of a few American 
citizens in El Salvador as fit grounds to 
reexamine our relations with that country, 
rather than noting first the murders and 
abductions of thousands erf native activists. 
But we live in a world that has scope enough 
to allow Reagan and Haig to promote 
increased arms shipments to El Salvador as 
part of a retrenchment theme in a trimmed 
Federal budget!
I am opposed to having the eagle put its 
talons on any other land. That is Mark 
Twain speaking, in 1900, in reference to the 
U.S.'s colonizing the Philippines. In the 
mean time the eagle has landed and dug in, 
but Twain turns out to have been an 
alarmist after all. Marcos just promised the 
pope that there will be free elections 
sometime in the nest few months, maybe, if 
the country is ready for them.
Neil A. Ward 
Departmental Secretary 
Civil Engineering

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanFebruary 24, 1981
World news: Reagan speaks, Polish strikes end
Nation
Last Wednesday night President Reagan, 
in his first State of the Union address, out
lined his plan for this nations economic 
recovery. The Presidents plan calls for 
reductions in the growth of the national 
budget. Reagan proposed a $4.8 billion cut 
in the 1981 budget, followed by cuts of: $41.5 
billion in 1982, $79.9 billion in 1983 and 
$123.8 billion in 1986.
Along with budget cuts, Reagan pro
posed a 30% cut in individual taxes over the 
next 3 years. These tax reductions are to
Capital gains tax is also scheduled for reduc
tion from 28% to 20%, in addition the top 
rate on unearned income dropping from 
70% to 50%.
Business invesments will also be encour
aged, hopes Reagan, by his proposal for a 
new depreciation schedule. The new sche
dule, if granted by congress, would be retro
active to January 1, and total nearly $60 
billion by 1986.
Officials of NASA say that the maiden 
flight of the space shuttle Columbia, is still 
set for early April. This annoncement was
begin in July with the first of three 10% cuts, made following the walkout of nearly one
Funds for financial aid cut
continued from page 1
Under the Reagan administration, it will 
become more difficult to get a GSL, and 
according to the recent proposals, the 
government will not pay interest on a loan 
while the student is in school unless a need 
for the subsidy can be demonstrated. 
The GSLs availability to everyone must 
stop, Cathie stated, but he feels it would be 
wrong to put an income ceiling on eligibil
ity. It should be based on financial need, 
he said.
Part of Reagans plan includes scrapping 
the loan that parents of college students are 
eligible for under the GSL program. Since 
last October, parents have been eligible to 
borrow up to $3,000 per year for each child 
in college.
Abuse of the program is part of the reason 
that the GSL is being cut. Under the current 
system, many students and parents borrow 
money that they do not need and invest it. 
They earn interest rates of around 12% for 
four years on this money. Essentially, Cathie
implied, its a cheap way to earn about 
$5,000 in interest at the end of four years at 
the governments expense.
The Student Loan Marketing Association 
(Sallie Mae for short) is a corporation that 
was started in 1974 by the federal govern
ment to provide banks that participate in the 
GSL program with the funds to take part in 
the program. It also acts as a guarantor of 
student loans for the federal government, 
which frees local banks to make more loans 
available to students.
Reagan proposes to eliminate Sallie Mae, 
thus reducing government borrowing and 
saving $15 billion over the next 5 years.
Cuts in the Pell Grant (formerly the 
BEOG) will help the administration save
9.2 billion dollars over the next 5 years by 
requiring families to contribute more to the 
support of a student and by requiring the 
student to contribute a minimum of $750 a 
year to his own education, except in cases of 
extreme financial need.
thousand machinists at Kennedy Space Cen
ter. NASA says supervisory personel will fill 
in for the strikers.
Business
The Commerce Department disclosed, 
last week, that personal income continued 
to rise with a 0.9%, or $21.3 billion increase 
in January. January also saw a rise in hous
ing starts of 3.4% to an adjusted rate of
1,585,000 units. U.S. factories ran at 80% of 
capacity in January, up from 79.8% in 
December.
World
The Soviet news agency, TASS, charged 
the U.S., this past weekend, with preparing 
to invade El Salvador. While celebrating 
Army Day, Soviet defense minister, Dmitry 
Ustinov, called for increased Soviet military 
readiness because of Western attempts to 
revive the cold war. Ustinov continued by 
saying that the Soviets were continuing to
persue detente and peaceful co-existence.
Student strikes at 20 Polish Universities 
ended last week as the students received permission to form independent unions, 
Fanners are also preparing to end their one 
and a half month work stoppage in response 
to the new governments support of private 
agriculture. The Soviet Union has also 
agreed to support the feeble Polish economy 
by providing that country with $1.1 billion 
in credit.
Saudi Arabia has stepped up its efforts to 
procure arms. The government of West Ger
many reports that Saudi Arabia wants 
buy 200 of that countries supersonic Tor
nado jet fighters, worth more than seven 
billion dollars, along with German 
Lepoard tanks. Plans are being made to 
announce to the sale of bomb racks and 
other FI 5 equipment by U.S suppliers to the 
Saudis.compiled by Reed Vickerman
Records recovered after theft
by Monica Cellio
Forty WRCT albums were recovered 
Thursday, February 12 after program direc
tor Larry Berger spotted a 17 year-old male 
selling the records to the Record Graveyard 
on Forbes Avenue. Berger then called the 
police, and the suspect was arrested.
According to Alan Spero, WRCTs music 
director, the staff noticed at the end of Janu
ary that many albums were missing from 
the bin, the place where the most current 
albums are kept in the air studio. The esti
mated value of the albums was $150. Spero 
commented, Sometimes people borrow 
records or they get misplaced, but this 
looked a little obvious. Several used-record
stores in the area were then called and
informed about the stolen albums.
The day before the arrest a Record Grave
yard employee provided WRCT with a des
cription of a person who they believed had 
sold fifteen stolen albums to the store. The 
next day Berger noticed a youth who fit the 
description carrying records and heading for 
the Record Graveyard. The youth sold the 
albums and actually stayed in the store for 
about 15 minutes just browsing. The stretch 
of time made it possible for the police to 
arrive and apprehend the youth.
According to Spero, WRCT intends to 
prosecute to the fullest extent of the law with 
the intention of discouraging any future 
thefts.
JUBILEE 1981
March 6,7,8,1981 at the Pittsburgh Hilton Hotel
|UBIL 1981 is a conference designed to examine the meaning 
of the lordship of Christ and the JUBILEE of God in our lives as 
post-resurrection believers
Brochure and appiicaiions available al 
Ski bo information desk or call:
Meg Durkin 683-9448 
Charlie LaValiee 687-8627 
Wayne Nickerson 682-4310
Members CMU Campus Ministry CouncilNow: Copy cassette tapes yourseli-any length. Fart: Copy a one-hour 
cassette in less than two minutes. Simple: Easy as xeroxing a letter. 
Inexpensive: Our remarkably low price includes the Rezound Copy 
Cassette^ Accurate: Perfect monaural copies, every time. Versatile: 
Make 1. 2,3...or 100 copies.
BeZDLND
CASSETTE COPYING CENTERS
emu bookstore*

---------------------------------------------------

W
February 24, 1981The TartanPage 5
Skibo lectures:
Liberationalist Gregory speaks
by L. Vemon Valentine
Human Liberationist Dick Gregoryy 
will speak in Skibo Ballroom at 8 PM on 
Wednesday, March 4. A highly sought 
lecturer on college campuses, Gregory has 
made several visits to CMU in recent years in 
his campaign to alleviate human suffering 
brought on by ignorance and apathty.
In 1961, Gregory broke through the 
formerly White-dominated entertainment at 
Chicagos Playboy Club. An immediate 
sensation, he soon appeared in top night 
clubs nationally, as well as on major fame 
and resources as a professional comedian to 
catapult himself to a leadership role in the
human rights aim mien.
Since the Civil Rights movement of the
1960s, Gregory has repeatedly been in the 
national and international public eye.
During the movement he participated in 
hundreds of protests and sacrificed millions 
of dollars in cancelled bookings, travel 
expenses, and benefit performances. 
Gregory has also spent considerable time 
behind prison bars, including a forty-five 
day sentence in Chicago for his protest of the 
segregated Chicago for his protest of the 
segregated Chicago Public School System, 
and another forty-five day sentence in the 
state of Washington for his support of the 
Niqualy Indians who demanded full 
participation in American society.
In addition to being a political activist, 
the St. Louis native has authored nine books 
and recorded numerous albums. He is an 
actor, critic, philosopher and social satirist.
The lecture is free to the public, sponsored 
by SPIRIT, and funded by Student Senate.
Human Liberationist Dick Gregory will speak to CMU students in Skibo Ballroom at 8 p.m. on Wednesday, 
March 4.
New grading system implemented in Pascal course
by Monica J. Cellio
The introductory Pascal computing class 
(15-111) is using a new grading system 
where the exam grade is one hundred percent 
of the final grade, implemented last fall, the 
system may soon be used in Fortran classes 
as well.
A notice made available to students in the 
courses read's, A proctored examination is 
the means by which we will be measuring 
your acquisition of programming skills. It 
is the way in which you will be graded. We
will provide a computer, terminal, hard 
copy device, and other materials (books, 
paper, etc...) and a programming problem. 
You will have five hours to solve the prob
lem on the computer.
According to Phil Miller, coordinator of 
the introductory computing classes, the stu
dents are aware of the fact that the mastery 
exam is the only determination of their 
grades. However, if a student does poorly on 
homework, quizzes, and other exams, he 
will not be permitted to take the mastery 
exam.Othello program world champ
by Monica J. Cellio
A CMU graduate student in computer 
science has written a program that may very 
well be the world champion in computer
Othello.
The programs writer, Paul Rosenbloom, 
stated that the artificial intelligence pro
gram began as a hobby. Rosenbloom said he 
was inspired after, I spent a year at San 
Diego and saw a bad (Othello) program 
there, so two years ago he began to work on 
his own version.
Last summer the program, named IAGO 
after the villain in Shakespeares Othello, 
competed in a tournament against two 
humans and five other programs. IAGO 
came in third among the programs but lost 
to both of the humans.
After this experience, Rosenbloom and 
several others worked to revise the program. 
Last month IAGO entered competition, this
time taking first place. Since the tourna
ment had playoffs among the top twenty 
Othello programs in the world, IAGO 
could be said to be the unofficial world 
champion among Othello programs.
The program is written in a language 
called Sail, which Rosenbloom described as 
similar to Pascal. The program both 
searches for possible moves and uses judge
ment to determine the value of certain posi
tions, with an emphasis on the latter. IAGO 
adds several reliable measures of the quality 
of a position together to determine the best 
possible move.
Rosenbloom stated that although IAGO 
started as a hobby and not part of his thesis, 
he has learned many things about artificial 
intelligence from it. As far as profit is con
cerned, Rosenbloom has not made any 
monetary gain as a result of the program.
Miller said the system was designed to 
combat the problem of student apathy and 
cheating. According to Miller, a common 
problem had been that students who are 
required to take the course sometimes do 
poorly due to lack of interest. The students 
were simply not learning the material; how
ever, under the new system a student is 
forced to leam the material or he fails the 
course. He cannot simply appear to be 
learning.
Another problem, which is nationwide in 
scope, is that of massive cheating. A case in 
point is an incident that occurred here three 
years ago. A teaching assistant for the course 
had left his solution for a program unpro
tected for a few hours. When the assignment 
was due, 30 to 50 students turned in this 
program. All but one of the students were 
found guilty by a disciplinary board, but, 
according to Miller, the guy who actually 
copied it was clever enough to get off the 
hook.
Another problem that the system was 
designed to solve is that of varying speeds of 
students. The students who have back
grounds in computing, and who feel they 
are ready, can take the exam as early as 
March, while those who are having trouble 
can sometimes get extensions. This allows 
each student to work at his own pace.
This system also solves the problem of 
setting uniform standards for the course. 
Generally, each instructor had his own tests 
and grading systems and sometimes these
differences were enough to cause major vari
ations in the course from one instructor to 
another. Under Millers new grading sys
tem, all students take the same mastery 
exams and are thus graded the same
According to Miller, the system has been 
incredibly successful although there are 
still some problems involving H&SS stu
dents who are required to take the course.
Of the 74 H & SS students enrolled in the 
course last semester, 48 learned much better 
than those in the past and were allowed to 
take the mastery exam, according to Miller. 
All received As, and according to Miller, 
these are not cheap As. Under other sys
tems, he says the students would not have 
learned well.
Miller commented, It has never before 
happened that so many lost students were 
able to recfiwer^rjd succeed... It is clear this 
group has made more progress than any I 
have ever seen.
Students will receive the mastery exam 
questions in advance. When asked if this 
could cause cheating on the exam, Miller 
replied that he was a way of watching stu
dents and he can tell every keystroke they 
make, or dont make. This would prevent 
students from writing the programs ahead 
of time and copying them from their directo
ries during the exam. Miller also stated that 
memorization of solutions would be an 
impossibility, and if a student could succeed 
in memorizing the programs, he would 
have learned the material in the process.
Can You Grow Fast Enough?
As of December, 1980, Tandem has 
shipped over 1.000 CPUsjust five 
years after delivering its first system.
Tandem will be conducting 
formal interviews on your 
campus:
Tuesday, March 17, 1981
If you're interested in joining a company 
on the move, be sure to sign up for an 
interview at your Placement Office.
is an equal opportuni!) employer
RECRUITMENT FOR 
SHELL COMPANIES OVERSEAS
A service furnished to overseas Shell companies 
by SCALLOP CORPORATION (a Shell company)
OPPORTUNITIES FOR NATIONALS OF WEST EUROPEAN COUNTRIES AND 
ARGENTINA, BRAZIL, INDONESIA, NIGERIA AND THAILAND WHO WISH 
TO RETURN TO THEIR AREAS OF ORIGIN.
WESTERN EUROPE
ARGENTINA
BRAZIL
INDONESIA
NIGERIA
THAILAND
Petroleum, Chemical, Mechanical, Electrical (Power and Control) 
and Civl1/Structural Engineers 
Ceologists and Geophysicists 
Chemists (British only)
Computer Systems Analysts and Operations Research Specialists
Petroleum and Mechanical Engineers, Geologists, Geophysicists 
and Financial, Economics and Business-oriented graduates
Appropriate graduates in Economics, Finance and Marketing 
Chemical Engineers and Agronomists
Appropriate gradua f*s for the Chemical and Metals Trading 
Administration
Appropriate graduates for the Finance Administration 
Geologists and Ceophysicists
Petroleum, Mechanical, Civil and Electrical Power Engineers and 
Computer Application Specialists
Chemical and Mechanical Engineering graduates to become 
executive trainees
If you are interested, please write and send resume to: 
SCALLOP CORPORATION 
Overseas Recruitment 
3200 One Allen Center 
Houston, Texas 77002

---------------------------------------------------

Academic Affairs:
Architecture education plan required
The Student Senate unanimously passed 
a resolution at its last meeting which asks 
the department of Architecture to file an 
educational development plan. The resolu
tion requests that the plan clearly state the 
goals and strategies for the department in 
the future. This (plan) should include a well 
developed core curriculum that clearly 
defines all requirements leading to all 
degrees offered.
Doug Carney, chairman of the Academic 
Affairs committee, explained to The Tartan 
why he felt such a plan is needed. Camey 
feels that the two major problems with the 
department lie in faculty qualifications and
Baseball Club
continued from page 1 
not funding a coach for any other club, 
Lawrence said, Its their (Senates) job to 
make discretionary decisions.
Lawrence made the comparison between 
the Hockey Clubs need for ice time to the 
Baseball Clubs need to a coach, if they 
(Hockey Club) didnt have ice time, they 
would not exist, and without a coach we 
wont exist. Lawrence explained that the 
CMU Baseball Club is the only club in 
Pittsburgh that competes with colleges like 
Pitt. Our coach has a lot of contacts, and 
without him we could not schedule games 
because nobody wants to play a club team.
Lawrence also commented that if the club 
needed to rent a field that Senate would be 
willing to pay for it, but not for a coach.
During the Finance commitee meeting, 
Hanusek made a motion that the committee 
consider changing a fiscal policy, and it 
passed by a vote of 62.
the lack of a set curriculum.
The technology-three classes, a series of 
required courses offered to seniors, are an 
example of the departments failure to pro
vide its students with a consistent curricu
lum, Camey said. He explained that there 
were not enough professors to teach the 
classes in the fall term and the hours of the 
classes were cut in half. This semester, how
ever, the department dropped the rquirement and students took free electives instead.
Concerning the quality of faculty, Camey 
commented that we have had to fight to 
keep good teachers-for example, Bud Mall 
and Arne Larson. He also said he believes 
that the quality of the sophomore faculty is 
decaying quickly, in particular, the adjunct 
professors and junior faculty.
In other Academic Affair news, the com
mittee is currently launching a publicity 
campaign in an effort to improve their rela
tions with the student body.
A love scene from Marthaan opera presented last 
Saturday and Sunday evenings in the Skibo 
Ballroom
Bud Yorkin sponsors drama awards at CMU
by Monica J. Cellio
A new award has been created for drama 
students in playwriting and directing. The 
Bud Yorkin Awards for Directors and 
Playwrights is a joint project of CamegieMellon and producer-director Bud Yorkin.
Yorkin, who is president of Tandem Pro
ductions, has pledged $10,000 annually for 
the next four years to be awarded to students 
in the College of Fine Arts at CMU. The first 
presentation of awards will be at the end of 
the New Play Festival on April 4. The festi
val features plays by 11 graduate playwrit
ing students at CMU.
The playwriting award is open to stu
dents enrolled in the Master of Fine Arts 
program in playwriting or students in 
drama who have written a play. The play 
must be at least of one act lenght.
The directing award is for students 
enrolled in the Master of Fine Arts directing 
program or in the five year combined 
B.F.A./M.F.A. programs in acting or direct
ing. Candidates must have completed and 
passed the required Senior Directing 
Project.
Judging will be by a panel of students,
faculty, established playwrights and critics.
Yorkin set new precedents for situation 
comedy on television in the 1970s with the 
production of shows such as All in the 
Family, Maude, Sanford and Son and 
Good Times. In addition, he has directed 
such feature films as Come Blow Your 
Horn, Divorce American Style, Inspector 
Clouseau and Start the Revolution Without I 
Me. Yorkin has recieved six Emmys and has | 
recieved the Peabody, Directors Guild, Sylvania and Look awards for directing. He is a I 
1948 alumnus of CMU and a member of the [ 
Universitys Board of Tmstees.
QUESTIONNAIRE
Food Service
The General Campus and Information Committee of the Student 
Senate has two functions: (1) publicize all student government 
activities and (2) gather student opinion on controversial issues 
affecting the student body.
At the SDC meeting of February 11,1981, Ken Stover, Director of 
Food Service and Oscar Mayer, Director of Auxiliary Services
announced two proposals regarding Food Service accounts tor 
19811982. Both plans would affect all dormitory residents. 
Students who live in campus houses and apartments would be 
excluded.
Plan AA $50 fee for all dorm residents. The fee entitles students 
to a 15% Validine discount. Contracts might be offered.
Plan BAll dorm residents must deposit $300 into a Validine 
account.
Page 6The TartanFebruary 24, 1981
1 ) Do you approve of mandatory participation in Food Service for 4) Do you live: 
all campus residents? Yes____No____ a) off-campus------
Comments _______________________________________________ b) on-campus (Margaret Morrison, Doherty, Woodlawn, Rose
_________________________________________________________ lawn or Shirley)____
c) on campus (other).
2) How much money do you spend on Food Service each _ 4 ,semester? 5) Academic Year (Freshman, etc.)
a) less than $300------ A ,.b) $300 to $450____ Additional comments:-----------------
c) more than $450------
3) Food Service currently provides basic nutritional food at a low 
cost. Would you be willing to pay prices comparable to offcampus restaurants or cafeterias to bring comparable choice and 
quality? Yes____No____
Please complete this form and send it to: GC&I, Skibo Information Desk.

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Renaissance II
Science Hall-ish Convention Center 
first of 9 new complexes to open here
by David M. Land
It just wouldnt be fair to judge Pitts
burghs Renaissance II by the cover of the 
recently opened David L. Lawrence Con
vention Center, but the temptation is there. 
Mayor Caliguiri has touted it as the first big 
event of the downtown renewal program 
and the programs promoters are quick to 
show that the Centers opening is the kickoff for the citys massive building spree. The 
Center is really a part-a very late part, 
indeed-of Pittsburghs first Renaissance in 
the late 50s and early 60s. Aften seventeen 
years of legal and political battling, after 
*nany months of construction delays of 
every' imaginable sort, its open. Ta-da.
The building is boring. Slabs of drab 
bricks are bordered with Science Hall-style 
concrete with little holes all over and litde 
rubber inserts in the little holes. The win
dows open to uninspiring vistas. The inside 
is cold and uninviting--it looks like a sta
dium. Exposed, brighdy-painted pipes pro
vide the only color, but it is an overused 
trickits old hat already. Its boring, and its 
not even finished.
Enough of that, though. The convenuon 
an ter is behind the times, ugly, and uncom
fortable. It is distincdy un-Pittsburgh. The 
rest of Renaissance II should prove to be 
much more satisfying.
Pittsburghers, after years of traffic tie-ups 
and parking nightmares will have quite a 
city to call home. In the approximate order 
of their completion, here are the projects 
currently under construction or on the 
drawing boards now:
Heinz Hall Plaza, a park adjoining the 
Heinz Hall performing arts center, and the 
small theater added to the hall, will open 
sometime this summer. The Plaza is 
expected to open the area to increased devel
opment by arts-related businesses. Some 
planners foresee the development from Heinz 
Hall to the Covention Center as a fine arts 
district. Heinz Hall Plaza is also a part of a 
crescent of greenery which will run from the 
Plaza through Market Square to the new 
PPG Complex with its courtyard and win
ter garden. All of the new major develop
ments in town include greenery, in keeping 
with the fact that Pittsburgh has more 
greenspace per square mile of city than just 
about any other major city.
Opening next summer will be Two Cha
tham Center. The Prudential Life Insurance 
Company has added another 16-story tower 
to that uptown complex. The company 
believes that the area between downtown 
and the lower Hill District is just as viable a 
part of the city for development as any other. 
The area has suffered, primarily because of 
its distance from the Point, where most of
Pittsburghs past development has occurred. 
The building of the Grant Street East pro
ject next to the U.S. Steel building, with its 
planned main subw'ay station, and a 
number of other uptown developments will 
probably help the upper reaches of down
town become more accessible to shoppers 
and businessfolk.
Across the Monongehela from downtown 
lies the Stadon Square area, which is about 
to move into its second phase with the opening of a brand-new 300-room Sheraton 
Hotel. The hotel will be connected to a 
small convenuon and expo center via a 
large, glass-roofed atrium over a health cen
ter and restaurants. Also to Come on the 
Mons south shore are a marina and a con
dominium to be built above the Grand Con
course parking lot. The Station Square 
development is part of an effort to show that 
downtown is not necessarily confined 
within the Point.
On the very edge of a downtownconfined-within-the-Point, however, 
growth is evident. Just a stones throw (with 
a good off-shore breeze) from the river, and 
across Stanwix Street from the Westinghouse building, Oliver Tyrone has begun 
construction of their entry in Renaissance II, 
Riverfront Goiter. One gets the distinct 
impression that if it doesnt have the word 
center or complex or plaza in its 
titles project just wouldnt be built in this 
city. Hie realty company expects its clients it 
be able to move in sometime late this year.
This development will be the first in an 
expected building and renovating boom 
along the Monongehela side of town in 
what the city planners call First Side. 
Envisioned as an area of light industryparticularly in the graphic arts field-and 
residential structures, the region has already 
seen the renovation of the ICM building. 
Loft living spaces are seen as providing 
expensive and artsy downtown living for an 
increasing downtown population. Most of 
that areas development is a long way off, 
though.
The first of the real biggies One Oxford 
Centre, (Oh, how terribly British!) will 
probably open in March of next year. 
Theyve already made a bloody big hole 
along Grant Street between Forbes and 
Fourth, and work has progressed uninter
rupted since the August groundbreaking. 
The structure began as a headquarters of a 
Dravo Corporation, but U.S. Steels Grant 
Street East project down the street stole that 
client. One Oxford Centre will feature a fivestory atrium on Grant Street, chock full of 
nifty little boutiques and eateries. It looks 
like O.O.C will be a preppy nexus with 
mondo-jewelry-designer-health-clubby
Star War-ish corridor way greets visitors at the Convention Center.
action. Therell be a 900-car garage, racquet - 
ball courts, a jogging track, a health center 
(centre?), and all that pseudo-Califomia 
kind of 1980s stuff.
The Oxford Development Corp. also has 
control of a big chunk of land next door on 
Grant Street which might become a Phase II 
centre someday-maybe in Renaissance III.
Just a short jog down Grant Street, in the 
hole created by the dramatic demolition of 
the Carlton House hotel, will stand the tal
lest of the Renaissance projects, the Grant 
Street East complex. Topped by an eight
sided, 53 story, very vertical tower, this devel
opment will be ready for Dravo to move in 
about a year after Oxford Centre is finished. 
U.S. Steel, whose wide-ranging interest 
include a number of significant real estate 
projects, is building this headquarters for its 
chemicals-business competitor just across 
the way from its own world HQ.
Grant Street Easts atrium (Oh, they all 
have them these days, dont they?) will also 
feature major nift-shops (spelled shoppes 
at Oxford Centre, I suppose). The trend 
toward retail space on the lower floors of 
these new structures is a welcome change 
from the clean but boring style of most post
modern architecture. The U.S. Steel build
ings monolithic and deserted two-story 
lobby will stand across the street from the 
new buildings busy commercial area, a 
study .in contrasts.
The new structure will also house Mid* 
town Plaza, the main terminal of the Pitts
burgh subway, scheduled to run by 
Thanksgiving, 1984. 20-30,000 people are 
expected to pour through the station twice 
each day as they enter town via the planned 
South Hills light rail vehicle system. Later 
in the decade, Grant Street East could also 
include a big hotel and a condo.
The most architecturally significant of 
Renaissance IIs projects is the PPG com
plex of six medieval-styled buildings. Con
troversial architect Philip Johnson, who has 
been critical of past Pittsburgh develop
ment, has created a classic glass casde for 
Pittsburghs big glass maker.
Expected to be ready in 1983 or 1984, the 
40-story structure will be sheathed in reflec
tive glass and will feature a six-story high 
glass arch over the entrance to an open-air 
courtyard adjoining an enclosed winter 
garden. Again, restaurants and shops will 
abound on the lower floors around the 
atrium. The five smaller buildings sur
rounding the main tower serve to reinforce 
the gothic form of the structure and to soften 
the transition from the low buildings of 
Market Square to the soaring central tower.
The PPG complex and Grant Street East 
are similar in that they best take the sur
rounding architecture of Pittsburgh into 
consideration. Both designs call to mind 
continued mi page 8
White collar image to replace 
history of heavy industry
WQED disc jockeys spy The Tartan photographer.
by Reed Vickerman
Current prospects ior employment, either 
for summer or for a career, are of vital 
importance to many students at CMU. In 
the Pittsburgh area things are looking up.
It is frequendy pointed out that the 
Pittsburgh area is something of a corporate 
mecca. Sixteen of the Fortune 500 
companies are headquartered in Pittsburgh. 
The $50 billion which local corporations 
have invested in capital ranks Pittsbuigh 
second only to New York City. Beneath 
these impressive figures lies the basic fact 
that more than 23 percent of the local work 
force are managers and professionals. 170 
private research centers are located in 
Southwestern Pennsylvania, and they 
employ more than 23,000 scientists, 
engineers and technicians. In all, more than
450,000 people in the area are considered 
white collar.
The primary metals field has long been 
the main source of employment in the area, 
but for the last 20 years has witnessed a 
steady and dramatic decline in prominence 
and prosperity. Today nearly 90 percent of 
local employment is outside the steel 
industry. This dec line has been paralled by a
continual rise in the number erf jobs in trade 
and service industries.
These figures illustrate that Pittsburgh is 
becoming a community characterized not 
by a grey history of mills, foundries, and 
factories, but by a bright future of 
technology, corporate management, and 
services. This evolving optimistic nature of 
the dty is personified in the efforts of many 
groups and individuals who have taken on 
the responsibility of promoting and selling 
Pittsburgh.
The effort to encourage new business, and 
consequendy jobs, has been taken on by 
groups such as Penns Southwest, a regional 
development organization. This group has 
set the goal of stimulating economic 
growth by attracting jobs and investment. 
Penns efforts have included a huge 
supplement featured in IRON AGE 
magazine, which did much to bring the area 
to the attention of the nations business 
men.
The dty of Pittsburghs Department of 
City Development is another gToup 
promoting Pittsburghs business 
community. Among this small group of 
continued on page 8
I

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanFebruary 24, 1981
Communication Week 3:College of Fine Arts
College of Fine Arts
DEANS OFFICE, CFA 100, x2348 
Dean: Akram Midani, CFA 100, x2348 
Assistant to the Dean: Lorelei ODonnell, x2348
- Supervision of business and financial affairs;
- Administration of school level non-academic University policy;
- Provision of general administrative support to the Dean. 
ARCHITECTURE
Head: Louis Sauer, CFA 201,x2354, 2355 
Assistant Head for Management and Fiscal Affairs:
Judy Kampert, CFA 201, x2354, 2355 
Assistant Head for Student Affairs:
Arne Larson, CFA 201, x2354, 2355
ART
Head: Orville Winsand, CFA 312, x2409 
DESIGN
Head: Joseph Ballay, BH 359, x2828
DRAMA
Head: Mel Shapiro, CFA 108, x2392, 2393
Assistant to the Head: Michael Shamata, CFA 104, x2396
- Administrative Co-ordinator;
- Financial management and budgeting;
- Rehearsal/performance co-ordinator;
- Space management;
-stage management student advisor.
MUSIC
Head: Harry Franklin, CFA 105, x2372, 2373 
Assistant to the Head: William Tobin, CFA 159, x2382
- Administrative Co-ordinator;
- Financial management and budgeting;
- Rehearsal/performance co-ordinator;
- Space management;
- Stage management student advisor.
continued from page 7
Man meets ketchup bottle at the Heim 
booth.Citys employment prospects grow with Renaissance II
continued from page 7
energetic dty planners are individuals like 
Elizabeth Greenough who believes The 
dty is a hard driving center, yet to many it is 
still a secret; its like an unpolished apple 
waiting to be discovered.
Through the work of groups like the City 
Department of Development and Penns 
Southwest, Pittsburgh has not only accepted 
its new role as a management and service 
center, but has charted a course to expand in 
this new direction. One result of the ritys 
new high-tech and headquarter-town image 
is that 117 foreign firms (of which 44 are
German) have located in this area. The most 
publicized of the newcomers are 
Volkswagon and Mobay Chemical. In a 
dramatic move in 1974, both companies 
brought their headquarters to Pittsburgh 
from New York.
Despite all these the changes in the local 
business climate, the steel industry, once the 
back bone of the Western Pennsylvania 
economy, continues to decline in 
prominence. Last year the nations steel 
shipments totaled 83 million tons, the 
second-worst performance in 10 years. Local
mills contributed only 23% of this poor 
production level.
Since this decline, firms who once relied 
on steel for their earnings have diversified 
and are trying to develop new markets. More 
than 50% of Allegheny Ludlums 1978 
operating profits were from non-steel 
operations. At the same time, U.S. Steel has 
announced an ambitious plan to diversify 
into areas such as realty.
The overall economic and employment 
outlook for the Pittsburgh area is 
encouraging: during the recession of 1975,
the employment rate in Pittsburgh actually 
rose-the increase of 24,000 jobs during 1978 
was the largest for the Western Pennsylvania 
area since the mid-1960s. An illustration of 
this new optimism is demonstrated by 
Alcoa, who is planning to spend more for 
research and development. Alcoa hopes to 
spend $71 million for R&D in 1981-an 
increase of 27% over last year.
The future is bright and the prospects are 
hopeful, but the future jobs in Pittsburgh 
will be of a more technical and/or 
managerial nature as the dty continues to 
grow and polish.
ADVERTISEMENT
ALL THE NEWS WORLDWIDE
HOME-DELIVERED 
LAUGEST CLASSIFIED VOU ME
(213) 970-4966 
NORTHROP AIRCRAFT DIVISION OFFICESPANNING THE GLOBE(She mm mabt
IN FOLK PA RTS-52 PAGES 
PART I-GENERAL NEWS-15 PAGES
TIMELY REPORTING
VOL. UXDAILY FIVE CENTSON CAMPUS INTERVIEWSFEBRUARY 27
Newest Northrop 
Fighter Advances 
F-5 Family 
March 24, 1980 - 
Hawthorne, California
The new generation of Northrop's F-5 
family of low cost tactical fighter aircraft, 
the F-5G, was announced at Hawthorne 
today, stepping up a nearly 20-year 
evolutionary program for the company.
The single-engined F-5G was conceived 
to meet world defense needs today and 
through the 1990s, and offers an affordable, 
supportable defensive system that keeps 
pace with the changing requirements for 
national security.
February 1981
Northrop Aircraft is still designing and 
building high-performance aircraft today 
in the companys mile-long, modem com
plex in Hawthorne, California. For 40 
years, we've promoted the people associ
ated with our products and furnished 
one of the finest benefits packages avail
able in the industry including educational 
reimbursement for employees in an ac
credited graduate study program; a con
venient savings plan - for every dollar 
invested, Northrop contributes 50 per
cent; and generous vacations - including 
a week long Christmas holiday. In addition 
to a creative work environment you'll 
enjoy Southern Californias year round 
recreational paradise. And, Northrops 
recreation club sponsors many enjoy
able activities such as skiing, golf and 
fishing.
If your interests are in TECHNICAL ENGI
NEERING which includes AERONAUTI
CAL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, 
COMPUTER SCIENCE, MATERIALS 
SCIENCE, or MATH. (B.S. and M.S. level). 
See Northrop today for your tomorrow.
Contact the placement office to schedule an 
appointment with a Northrop representative.
Aircraft Division
If you can not meet with us at this time, 
please forward your resume to:
Employment Office 
Dept. 1221/80 TS/CMU 
2815 El Segundo Blvd. 
Hawthorne, CA 90250
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H
NORTHROP
I Making advanced technology work.

---------------------------------------------------

February 24, 1981The TartanPage 9
Downtown to expand across the rivers
continued from page 8
Pitts Cathedral of Learning and the county 
courthouse. Both also include lower build
ings surrounding a tall center tower to allow 
the complexes to blend in.
Sometime in mid-1983, Liberty Center,
the convention center hotel, and an adjoin
ing office building, will open. To be offi
cially known as Vista International 
Pittsburgh, the center will hold 615 rooms 
(expandable in the future to over 800), lots of 
retail space, a 300-car garage, and half a 
million square feet of office space in a 32- 
story tower beside the hotel. Liberty Center 
will sport the citys tallest atrium, soaring 
the full height of the hotels 28 stories. If 
youre into zippy elevators in hotels, itll be 
your place in Pittsburgh.
In addition to all these buildings, the city 
plans to resurface virtually every major 
downtown street, and to relocate a number 
of streets uptown around Grant Street East 
and Liberty Center. Much of the Sixth Street 
and Liberty Avenue will be tom up between 
1982 and 1984 for the installation if the sub
way, which will serve four stations: The 
Penn Central station, Grant Street Easts 
Midtown Plaza, Sixth Avenue at Wood 
Street, and Gateway Center. The subway is 
part of PATs program of rapid transit for 
the city in the 80s, which also embraces a 
light fciil system for the South Hills area, 
and a new East busway from Wilkinsburg to 
the Penn Central station. The whole system 
should be in operation by 1984. Well see.
On the more speculative side of the ledger 
are a number of mostly non-commercial 
projects. The city envisions miles of river
side parks stretching from the point to Herrs 
Island on both sides of the Allegheny, more 
city parks throughout the city, and the possi
ble creation of a Forks of the Ohio 
National Historical Park, which would 
include the already-mentioned Allegheny 
River Edge park, and a number of other 
waterside developments.
Commercially, the rivers are of interest, 
too. On the Mon, Station Square plans for a 
marina and other dockside facilities. The 
north shore of the Allegheny could be the 
site of a North Shore development of con
dos, waterfront development (a marina and 
restaurants, and such), and a community of 
retail shops.
Pittsburgh, we hardly know ya, may 
well become the slogan for returning Pitts
burgh natives over the next five to ten years. 
Pittsburghophiles greet this latest flurry of 
activity with enthusiasm, marred only by 
fears of the mess theyll have to suffer until 
then, and trepidation that the Renaissance 
might decrease the Pittsburgh-ness of Pitts
burgh. The Convention Center certainly 
lacks any ITiree-Riverocity.
For Burghers who can stand the traffic 
and mess, and who are prepared to accept 
the changes which must surely come, they 
will find the new Pittsburgh a great place to 
live and work. For those who cant, well, 
there aint much younze can do about it 
now, is ere?
The author wishes to cite the Pittsburgh 
Press, the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, the 
Market Square of Pittsburgh, and Pitts
burgh magazine as additional sources for 
information in this arucle.
Westinghouse was one of many companies 
with display booths at the convention 
center.
Mal
The day we answer years of questions in less than i hour
During the years youve spent working for your 
BS/MS/PhD, youve probably been asking yourself a lot 
of important questions.
Questions about what kind of company you 
want to work for.
Talk with our technical specialists when we 
visit your campus on the above date and in about 1 hour 
well give you the straightforward answers youve been 
looking for.
INMOS, a new semiconductor firm, decided 
to build its US headquarters in Colorado Springs 
with views from every window of Pikes Peak and 
the Cheyenne Mountain range. We found the peace 
necessary for contemplation, creativity and invention 
in the pleasure of spectacular natural beauty.
The objective of INMOS is to build a viable 
capability in the semiconductor industry through 
research and discovery. The company is concentrating 
on development of VLSI technology with initial devices 
at a level of complexity of 50,000 to 100,000 transistors 
per chip. INMOS plans to develop a broad range of 
products in the memory and microcomputer areas.
Well show you why INMOS is small enough to 
offer you ample opportunity for rapid advancement yet, 
with our plans for rapid growth, big enough to offer the 
variety and visibility of a large corporation. Well 
describe how youll be given considerable responsibilities 
from the very first day. How youll become immersed 
in every phase of your departments operation-from
the birth of an idea to its final implementation. And 
how well provide you with in depth, on-the-job 
training... without making you sit in a classroom to get 
it. And how youll be working and rubbing elbows with 
some of the acknowledged geniuses in the electronics 
field today. *
Well tell you how INMOS, unlike many other 
companies, wont weigh you down under layers 
of management- how youll be given the authority to make 
and carry out your own decisions. And well show you 
how your ideas will get the attention they deserve and 
the support they need to make them work.
So call or stop by the Placement Office to set up 
an appointment, so we can describe in detail your future 
at INMOS Corporations US headquarters in Colorado 
Springs. If you are not available for an appointment but 
would like further information write Denny Grady, 
Employment Manager, P.O. Box 16000, Colorado 
Springs, Colorado 80935.
Honoring human resources in every respect...
We are an equal opportunity employer.unmos
Were building a great company. Together.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanFebruary 24, 1981
Saul Bellow: Big Man in Literature
by Bob Brenner, Hard-hitting reporter
Eight a.m. and minus one degree Fahren
heit. My body does not wish to leave the 
warm sanctity of my bed. But we are not 
animals, we have brains, and sometimes 
not always, but sometimesthe need for 
intellectual nourishment supersedes the 
desire for creature comforts; yes, even here at 
Camegie-Mellon. Saul Bellow is coming. 
Saul Bellow, author of The Victim, The 
Adventures of Augie March, Herzog, Mr. 
Sammlers Planet, and Humboldts Gift. 
Saul Bellow, winner of the National Book 
Award (three times), the International Liter
ary Prize, the Pulitzer Prize, the Croix de 
Chevalier des Arts et Lettres, and the Nobel 
Prize in Literature. Saul Bellow, big Man in 
Literature.
And what the hell: I havent seen the 
David Lawrence Convention Center yet.
The wind munches ferret-like on my face 
while I wait for the bus on Forbes; the pain 
returns while walking along Liberty 
Avenuethe Convention Center is located 
at 10th and Penn. Peculiar to be keeping a 
rendez-vous with intelligentsia this morn
ing: the week, so far, has been anything but 
cerebral. The Moral Majority in particular 
has been all over the place, perpetrating var
ious insanities in the name of the Blood of 
the Lamb. In New York, the Moral Majority 
announces that God has given the Jews a 
supernatural ability to make money; in 
Olympia, Wash., the Moral Majority loses a 
legal bid to have public librarys records of 
who has taken out a sex-education film 
turned over to them; in San Francisco, the 
Moral Majority comes out in favor of the 
death penalty for homosexuals. And they 
say the only Ayatollahs are in Iran.
This space station building, then, is the 
David L. Lawrence Convention and Exposi
tion Center. The big steel sign says so. W7ell. 
any port in a storm, a few more moments of 
exposure, the Moral Majority, Saul Bellow, 
and the future identity of America will all be 
as one to me. Smooth sliding escalators 
whisk me to the third floor where a young 
smiling hostess relieves me of my ticket and 
heads me in the direction of rooms 8 
through 10.
Should I bring in death images here? The 
carpet is blood red, and men in white suits 
silently remove champagne bottle after 
champagne bottle from coffin-shaped pack
ing crates for the luncheon afterwards. But 
perhaps the most ominous sight is the walls 
of the lecture rooms, which are made of the 
same boring grey cinder blocks that define 
the spaces of our own Science Hall. I know 
its wrong to attribute personal characteris
tics to inanimate things, but seeing those 
cinder blocks here sends a shiver down my 
spine.
Where to sit, where to sit? Not in the front 
row: I have not read any of Mr. Bellows 
work,and if he should detect that heresy 
here, in the moment of his triumph, then 
surely I must go up in flames. Back, back 
then: skulking in the fourteenth row, brood
ing on what strange fate brings me to meet a 
world famous author whose works I have 
never read.
Oho: Many of Camegie-Mellons finest 
are here in attendance. For instance, I share 
my own special row with the honorable 
Dean Swank. Ann Hayes, Professor, Depart
ment of English, behind the podium deco
rated with the imperial Camegie-Mellon 
seal, and delivers her introductroy remarks. 
She is either very emotional or there is some
thing wrong with her throat. It is 10:15-, 
finally, Mr. Bellow takes the stage.
So thats what he looks like. No angels
surrounding him; just a frail, dignified 
older man. With a cold, it seems: he keeps 
coughing to clear his throat, and taking 
long sips from glass of water. His subject is 
Culture and Creativity in Present-Day 
America, and for the next hour or so, this is 
what he talks about. No surprises here, at 
least for those of you who have been paying 
attention: America is not the place for the 
Arts to flourish . Public museums, civic 
orchestras, fountains and parks, even and 
this goes unspoken, but its strongly 
implied lectures from renowned authors 
are mere lip service to ideals we think we 
should have pinned to our hearts. The real 
action is in the getting and spending of 
money; its the convention center, not the 
Nobel Laureates, thats at the crux of things. 
Mr. Bellow feels obligated to end on a hope
ful note: the Arts can survive in any waste
land, no matter how sterile. The audience 
applauds and turns its thoughts towards 
lunch.
I wander down to the main floor of the 
convention center. Here is where the enemy 
lurks: show booth after show booth of major 
commercial products. A large sign announ
ces that there is a DRAVO in my future, 
whatever the hell a Dravo may be. Gulf 
Energy Theater will be starting in a few 
moments, and if I just take a seat, the whole 
Mid-East situation will be explained to me 
by hand-puppets.
Half a dozen robots carefully manufac
ture tiny chains at one end of the hall, under 
the watchful eye of a human supervisor. 
(No no, M4, put that child down. Do not 
stamp a hole in him!) A representative of 
the Army Corps of Engineers silently dem
onstrates the working of a model canal lock 
to a pair of bored teen-agers; all day long 
hell be floating a little plastic barge from
Saul Bellow, Nobel laureate and Pulitzer 
prize winner, visited Pittsburgh last week, 
one end of a basin to another. A Xerox man 
in a grey suit shows how his companys 
copiers can make more copies faster; another 
man, who happens to look just like him, 
talks about cost and energy. There is US 
Steel, Allegheny Steel, a head shop
Whoa! Not a head shop. Just a display 
of confiscated drug paraphernalia by the 
Allegheny Police department. Huge bhangs 
and hookahs, the ever popular roach clip, 
and litde plastic bags of actual illegal sub
stances stapled to the table. A police man 
with large beer belly leans proprietarily 
over the table and tells grandparent types 
that yeah, kids actually use these things to 
smoke drugs.
Should I go over and ask for samples? 
Naw, theyll probably force me in the back 
somewheres and implement a painful inter
nal search. And if I resist, it means a few 
cracked ribs. Better to stand by this model of 
Renaissance II (the buildings are all done in 
grey and white I wonder why) and 
observe. Aha: the drugs and such are strategi
cally placed between a display of captured 
continued on page 11
emu bookstoreDIMM HALL
Then scream a little, scream a lot! You now have a direct pipeline to 
the Student Senates Academic Affairs Committee. Its called ARP; 
the Academic Response Program. Just indicate an adademic or 
related problem on the form in the Tartan or flyer youll get in the 
mail. Return it to the Academic Affairs box at the Skibo Info Desk 
and well lcx>k into it. Thats all!
H
MS (MM (fit 'HM fW 8AU6?bJUPUt &(STWHTAC'TlVireS fP
ON I*
sifrteflfeAp;% in groat moon! i
GET YOUR FWORITES AT BIG ;S/l/INGS1
Top Artists.
 Major Labels. 
Hundreds of Selections. 
Pop to Classic.
 Stereo LP Albums. 
Cassettes. Box Sets.
^/s2.98
AND UP
? *___
February 24 to 
March 10
Give the Ul at music.

---------------------------------------------------

February 24, 1981The TartanPage 11
Things started going slowly but relentlessly downhill
continued from page 10
weapons machine guns, rifles, sawed-off 
shot guns, and the like and dismantled 
time bombs, what kind of message do yoif 
suppose the Allegheny police force is try ing 
to get across? The irrationality of our 
nations drug policy depresses me: I flee the 
convention center.
15 degrees Fahrenheit outside now. 
Things are starting to look up in the City of 
Former Champions. I stride past the Liberty 
Avenue Art Cinema (todays double feature 
is Deep Chinese Stewardesses and 
Young Greek Auto-Mechanics) and catch 
the 61B at Fifth. The magic of mass trans
portation carries me back to CMU-land. But 
more enlightenment is forthcoming: Saul 
Bellows up for a question-and-answer 
period at 3:00 in the Wherrett room, manoa-mano avec the the student/faculty body of 
the university, and I just cant resist taking
another hit off the great author.
The afternoon is a disappointment. The 
Wherrett room is packed and hot, and the 
author looks more sick and tired than ever 
before. (Later we are informed that he was 
up at five and flew in from Detroit to be here 
with us today. Thats enough to make anyb
ody sick.) Lynne Barret does a nice little 
introduction, and then things start slowly 
but relentlessly going downhill.
Saul gestures for questions, and there are 
none forthcoming. Lynne, just to get the 
belli rolling, throws out the first interroga
tive. What about college programs in crea
tive writing? Well, Mr. Bellow replies, that 
may be somewhat futile. Writers should be 
exposed to more real life in order to give 
them a more informed viewpoint. A few 
tentative hands flutter in the audience. How 
do you write, Mr. Bellow? Mr. Bellow avoids 
the question. Can you tell us anything
about the novel you are working on now? I 
never discuss a work in progress. What 
about the impact of psychoanalysis on liter
ature? Its reductive. Do authors have a 
responsibility to portray Americans in a pos
itive fashion overseas? No. Should authors 
accept government subsidies? Yes.
Its not that the question themselves were 
inane, its the way theyre asked. Everyone 
seems to be suffering from a loss of energy: 
Saul Bellow nods his head, stares blankly 
out at the sea of faces,and little dry pipe 
voices come back to him drained of all sig
nificance. People begin trickling out. Its the 
heat, or CMU, or the authors own 
exhausted state. I feel sorry for him; he looks 
like a bull in a dusty arena. (And yes, that is 
an off-handed Ernest Hemingway 
reference.)
Should I try to stir things up a bit, ask 
about the Moral Majority? As a Jew, Mr.
Bellow has a specific purpose set by the 
Double M: at the end of the world he is to be 
herded to Israel along with all other persons 
of the Judaic faith and converted to Chris
tianity. I wonder what he makes of this 
prospect.
What about his appearance at the conven
tion center this morning? Wasnt he contri
buting to the conspiracy that confines the 
Arts in this country to the exalted role of 
conversation piece knick knack, something 
to be taken out and passed around and cooed 
over at dinner parties and coffee klatches? 
Wasnt the helping to give the Nobel stamp 
of approval to a building dedicated to the 
principle that salesmen from all over the 
country should regularly gather together 
and get blitzed out of their minds in order to 
propitiate the great green god of money? 
(Theres an answer to that one, erf course: 
continued on page 12
HPoperates on the premise that people should enjoy getting up in the morning.
When you go to a job thats built around your skills and 
interests, it hardly feels like work. Thats the way it is at HP
Here we put the emphasis on the individual, finding out 
what you want to do rather than simply telling you what we 
need. And you get to participate in a significant project right 
off the bat, rather than waiting years to reach a responsible 
position.
Quality people equal quality products.
That makes sense. And it has certainly proved itself 
at HP Weve grown to have more than 200 offices and plants 
around the world. That means we need a lot of excellent people 
to fill diverse, challenging jobs in our various divisions, mak
ing computers, components, and instruments for engineering, 
science, medicine and business.
But even with our size and steady growth, the impor
tance of the individual has not diminished in the least. This 
personal concern is summed up in a simple term: the HP Way. 
It covers everything from flexible work hours (HP was one of 
the first companies to let you pick your own schedule) to our 
Management by Objective. This basically involves setting a 
goal and giving you the responsibility for getting there, in the 
way you think is best.
To keep things on a human scale, we decentralize every
thing we can. Whether youre in R&D, field sales, manufactur
ing, marketing, administration or service, youll be working 
in a small group.
You get all the other benefits, too.
Obviously, youre not in this solely for the enjoyment. 
So we offer excellent pay and benefits; additional courses and 
help in continuing your education; the opportunity to work in 
some of the most pleasant parts of America and the world; 
and a genuine chance to grow in a career that will be a constant 
challenge to your ingenuity. (For example, HP is the only com
pany that has made a large-scale commitment to Silicon-OnSapphire IC Technology. When we like an idea, we go for it!)
A chart to go by (or not to go by).
To get a better idea of the opportunities here, you might 
want to check out this job chart.
Then check with the college placement office. Well be 
on campus March 12 and 13, 1981 to talk with you about perEngi nee ring
Computer Hardware Design
Computer Software Design
Digital Design
Analog/RF Design
Systems Engineering Design
Applications Engineering
LSI Design
Marketing
Field Sales
Systems Engineering
Customer Engineering
Product Marketing
Sales Development
Technical Marketing
Manufacturing
Plant Engineering
Production Engineering
Process Engineering
Quality Assurance Engineering
Materials Engineering
Administration
Personnel1 I 1I
Accounting (Finance)1 ri.
manent positions.
If theres no particular category that matches what you 
can offer, see us anyway. We believe in making the job fit the 
person, not the other way around.
m
HEWLETT 
PACKARD
We are an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanFebruary 24, 1981
Conservative and liberal definitions reversed
Teddy Kennedy is known as a liberal, yet by 
real definition he is a conservative 
Democrat.
by Luis Ball
The American Heritage Dictionary 
defines conservative as tending to favor 
the preservation of the existing order and to 
resist or oppose change or innovation. Yet, 
Ronald Reagan is called a conservative by 
everybody, and he certainly does not want to 
preserve the existing mess.
Most of my friends also call me a conser
vative, mainly because I agree with Reagans 
views and believe that big government is bad 
government. But what most people dont 
realize is that according to the definition, 
neither Ronald Reagan, or myself are con
servatives. We both want to change the exist
ing order. However, Reagan and all other 
conservatives have to accept the word con
servative, with its undesirable connota
tions as a description of their political view,
Art as a conversation piece ?
continued from page 11
one must go to the enemys den to confront 
him. But I wanted to hear Mr. Bellow say it.) 
What about the tact that fifty percent of his. 
audience (a rough estimate, admittedly), fre
quently commits what the contemporary 
law holds to be criminal acts? No, I didnt 
ask any of these questions; I could just see 
the story in next weeks Tartan:
DERANGED STUDENT HARRASSES NOBEL PRIZE LAU
REATE, In a bizarre incident last 
week, Carnegie-Mellon student Bob 
Brenner took it upon himself to ver
bally abuse CMUs honored guest 
and renowned Jewish author Saul 
Bellow. Acquaintances of Mr. 
Brennerhe has no friendsdescribe
him as a 'manic-depressive type, 
with frequent bouts of irrational hos
tility, *.like he was on steroids or 
something. For a long time Mr. 
Brenner has been under a doctors 
care, and it is his opinion that he 
needs electroshock therapy. His per
sonality should be completely 
erased... 
Ah well. One doesnt expect to have real 
confrontations at these meetings anyway. 
Its not like they were real intellectual events, 
you know? No academic violence. The 
Truth must be avoided at all cost. 4:30 rolls 
around, people rise as if from a dream, and 
trudge home to their assorted pleasures and 
obligations.
I go back to my room and back to my bed.
because somehow the word liberal 
changed its original meaning during the 
beginning of this century. Originally, a per
son having the opinions of a modem conser
vative would have been called a liberal. 
Before you get more confused, I will explain 
what happened.
Originally, in England, a liberal was a 
member of the Liberal party, and a person 
who believed in individual and economic 
liberties. The original liberals wanted to 
abolish the aristocracys control of the Brit
ish economy and society, and believed that 
the only way to achieve that goal was 
through an economic system free of govern
ment regulation.
Thus, at first, the liberals opposed big 
government and any form of privilege. The 
opponents of this kind of liberalism were 
called conservatives, because they wanted to 
preserve the existing order; that is, they 
wanted to preserve the aristocracys eco
nomic power, which was protected by the 
government.
In England, the word liberal changed 
its meaning, because, having achieved their 
original goals, the liberals now began to 
strive for such goals as freedom from poverty 
and unemployment. To achieve these goals, 
the liberals could think of no better help 
than big government. The conservatives, 
then, became those who wanted to preserve 
the new order that the liberals created with 
their first success.
In the U.S., there never was any aristo
cracy or big government; thus in the 1930s 
when some people began to change the sys
tem, those who opposed the changes were 
quickly labeled conservatives. Up to that 
moment, the words conservative and lib
eral had been used correctly according to 
their definition, but today the meaning of 
the words is distorted. Those who want to
maintain big government are the liberals, 
while those who want to change the present 
system are known as conservatives. The lib
erals opposition to change resembles that of 
the 19th century British aristocracy. Today, 
liberal bureaucrats liave replaced the 
aristocrats.
To solve this problem of mistaken identi
ties, there could be only one solution: all 
those people who now call themselves con
servatives should call themselves liberals, 
while those who are now liberals should 
change in the opposite direction. Thus, 
Teddy Kennedy would become a conserva
tive Democrat, while Barry Goldwater 
would become a liberal Republican (conser
vative Democrat? Liberal Republican? 
Maybe the parties should switch names 
also)/
If you dont like the idea, start thinking, 
then, about changing the meaning of the 
word conservative. Such a word as we 
have now does not fit somebody who wants 
change as much as Ronald Reagan does.
Now, about leftists and rightists.....
Conservative Reagan wants change 
badly.
YOU CAN BE PART OF
FRESHMAN 
WEEKEND
APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE AT
206 WARNER HALL, SKIBO DESK, MOREWOOD DESK, OR DONNER DESK
COUNSELOR APPLICATIONS DUE 
ON MARCH 5

---------------------------------------------------

February 24, 1981The TartanPage 13
Summer jobs
Start summer job hunt at Placement Office
by Jennifer Donaldson
Instead of taking that job in the steel mill 
or at the local drugstore again this summer, 
why not find something that will look a 
little more impressive on your resume? 
Think of the experience you could get in a 
summer job related to your field. Certainly, 
good grades will be an asset to you when you  
begin to interview for a full-time job, but 
what will probably land you the best job 
offer is good summer work experience. *
Getting a good summer job with careerrelated experience may take some effort and 
research on your part, but it can be well 
worth the time spent. The first thing you 
have to do is get an idea of where you want 
to go, or more importantly, whom youd 
like to work for. If possible, you should try 
to limit yourself to some extent to reduce the 
employer. Staff members at Career Services 
can guide you in finding summer job possi
bilities as well as preparing a good resume 
and cover letter. If you know of a company 
coming to campus and would like to obtain 
a special interview with its representative, 
write to the company and ask to be consi
dered as an interviews for summer w'ork. 
amount of letter writing youll have to do.
The best place to start is the Office of 
Career Services and Placement located in the 
lower level of Warner Hall. Career Services 
is equipped to provide students with a 
gamut of information on various compan
ies, their locations, and the types of 
employees they are seeking. The library sec
tion includes literature ranging from 
annual reports and company brochures to 
occupational handbooks for various geogra
phic locations. Some of these handbooks list 
many major fields of study and the names 
and addresses of companies seeking 
employees in those areas.
A number of companies have special cam
pus interview schedules for summer 
employment, and summer candidates 
should try to sign up when possible. But 
especially in the case of summer employ
ment, students may need to contact addi
tional employers to expand their number of 
job opportunities. The acceptable proce
dure for doing this is to send a resume with 
an individually typed cover letter to each
Some companies may have space in their 
schedules and would be happy to speak with 
you.
Companies often make their selection for 
summer employment in late February and 
during the month of March. Although 
December and January' are the best times to 
send letters out, it isnt too late to get started 
right now. Make an appointment with one 
of the staff at Career Services. Or stop by 
when companies you are interested in are 
interviewing on campus. By simply having 
a word or two with one of their representa
tives, you may make one of your most 
important contacts for a summer job.
The Career Services and Placement office 
not only serves graduating seniors. Each and 
every Camegie-Mellon student is entitled to 
use its services whether looking for full-time 
or summer work. Take advantage of the 
services it has to offer. But remember, when 
it comes to tackling the right summer job, 
persistence and assertiveness will pay off.
Many students obtain good summer jobs 
because they take the initiative to contact a
company and catch its attention with a wellprepared cover letter and resume. Dont put 
off any longer. Make that extra effort, and 
you may find yourself with the summer job 
experience you need to land that allimportant, full-time job when you gradu
ate. Why, isnt that the end toward which we 
are all working in this professionally 
oriented higher institution of learning?
AMS Deans List 
honors 3.75 Q.P.A.
SENIORS: Kenneth J. Benvenuto, Carol J. 
Ghetian, Cheryl Ann Hayes, Elizabeth Ann 
Meyers, Marlon D. Miller, Diane Marie 
Trasky
JUNIORS: Damien Bosco, Suzanne Eckert, 
Karen L. Epstein, Jeffrey A. Fisher, Melinda 
J. Heiser, Michael D. Herskovitz, Judith 
Lynn Liput, Jeffrey A. Masoner, Evan Joy 
Segal, James Silvey, Joseph P. Stark
SOPHOMORES: Ann Marie Gallant
After 15 interviews with various com
panies, I finally found MITRE. And after 15 
interviews I definitely knew what I was look
ing for when I saw it.
I had to have breathing room. A place 
that would turn me loose and let me work on 
different kinds of projects. On the other 
hand, I had to know Id be able to turn to 
other people for advice and backup. And I 
definitely wanted a steady growth situation.
With the MITRE people, I knew right 
away Id found it all.
At any given time, they have some 75 
or so funded, significant programs involving 
several hundred separate projects and 
tasks. And because theyre Technical Ad
visors to the Air Force's Electronic Systems 
Division in Command, Control and Com
munications (C3), they design and develop 
some of the worlds most advanced informa
tion systems.
Still, MITRE handles every assignment 
as if it were the only one. Because they have 
to come up with the right solution every time. 
Thats their product.
The best of MITRE to me is that theyll 
let me move from project to project if I want, 
or get deeply involved in a longer-range one. 
Theres always something waiting for me.
Im glad it took 15 interviews to get to 
MITRE. Now when I say I chose them, I 
know exactly what Im talking about.
Openings exist in:
COMPUTER SYSTEMS 
COMMAND AND CONTROL 
SYSTEMS ARCHITECTURE 
COMMUNICATIONS 
RADAR SYSTEMS
See your Placement Office to set up an 
on-campus interview, or send your resume 
directly to Jerome P. McKinnon, The MITRE 
Corporation, Bedford, MA 01730. U.S. Citizen
ship or resident alien registration required.
MITRE will be atCarnegie-Mellon
on March 4,1981
THF
MITRE
CORPORATION
MITRE is an equal opportunity 
employer actively seeking applications under 
its affirmative action program.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
Tartan Interview: Mel Shapiro, Head of the Drama Dept.
by Adam Lauzar
It took three weeks to arrange and set 
p a meeting with Mel Shapiro, the Head 
f the Drama Department. Shapiro is a 
ry active man; when not busy teaching 
lass, traveling, directing or doing admiistrative duties he disappears. However, 
erseverance and >some help from 
iichael Shamata, Shapiro's assistant, 
\nally landed the two of us in Shapiro's 
ffice in the Fine Arts Building.
Shapiro is no stranger to CMU. 
^though just installed as Head of the 
ihama Department this fall, he is a grad
uate of the CMU Drama School where he 
udied acting and directing. Hailing 
om Brooklyn, N.Y., he served in the 
rmy after the Korean War and came to 
MU on the G.I. bill. He graduated from 
MU in 1961. Interestingly enough, his 
ommate back then, Arne Zaslove is now 
isiting here as guest director of 
welfth Night. After graduation, Shairo went off to The Arena Stage in 
'ashington D.C. where he directed, 
om there he went to the Tyrone Guthrie 
heater for two years. Then it was off to 
ew York City; directing an offroadway play The House of Blue 
eaves by John Guare which won the 
Y. Drama Critics Award as best play, 
uecting Two Gentlemen of Verona 
hich won a Tony-N.Y. Drama Critics 
ward for best musical, and working on 
umerous shows. He has directed shows 
r Joseph Papp, and directed in the N. Y. 
Shakespeare Festival. He directed Sammy
Davis Jr. in a revival of Stop the World 
which toured. He was then approached 
by CMU and was asked if he wanted to 
come back and head the Drama Depart
ment. He found the idea rather intrigu
ing, and so back he came.
Tartan: The first thing, I want to ask you 
is what kind of new direction youre 
bringing here- if any; what new ideas? 
Did you come here with some specific 
ideas you wanted to implement at CMU? 
Shapiro: New directions? I dont know 
because I dont know what the old direc
tions were.
Tartan: You dont have any idea of what 
went on before you came here?
Shapiro: No, I have no idea and have 
steered totally clear of that- I didnt 
know- I dont want to know.
Tartan: You dont want to know? 
Shapiro: No, Ijust decided that Ill do my 
own thing; and mainly what Im doing is 
plugging the school into the profession. 
Weve had a lot of people from the profes
sion teaching here this year such as Kath
erine Helmond from Soap who was 
here for 4 weeks, Paul Richards, who is a 
west coast actor and one of the founding 
members of Actors Studio was here for 12 
weeks. Weve had Victoria Santa-Cruz 
teaching movement, shes from the 
National Folklorico of Peru, Bill Ball 
from ACT gave a talk, Jean Stapleton 
gave a talk. Comden and Green have 
talked here. Charles Ludlam who youve 
heard about (/ hadn't) directed a play. 
Arne Zaslove is now directing Twelfth 
Night.
Tartan: So a large part of the program is 
bringing outside professionals to 
either talk, teach, or direct?
Shapiro: Thats right, exactly.
Tartan: When you came here did you 
inherit a staff?
Shapiro: Oh, sure.
Tartan: Have you brought in any other 
new people besides the visiting guests? 
Have you altered the existing staff? How 
do you feel about the staff that you inher
ited? Are you pleased with the people you 
have to work with?
Shapiro: Yeah, I like the old people. I 
found them very dedicated and commit
ted, and they do a wonderful job and 
theyve been very supportive. So I have 
not had to have that sort of messy thing of 
a blood bath; and thats been very 
delightful.
Tartan: Thats fortunate.
Shapiro: Very fortunate. Doesnt make 
good news, but its fortunate.
Tartan: What do you think of theater in 
Pittsburgh?
Shapiro: I havent seen any of it. Well, 
Ive only been here since September and I 
havent seen a thing. I havent even seen a 
movie in town.
...the thing I most dream 
about is the development of a
media center...5
Tartan: Tell me about some specific 
aspect of your program that is 
interesting.
Shapiro: Well, Im very committed to
new plays.
Tartan: New plays?
Shapiro: Yes, and to playwrightingbecause that was basically the thrust of 
my work the last ten years in New York. 
So were having a New Play Festival, 
were doing 11 plays in 8 nights, we do it 
twice. Bud Yorkin, you know, the T.V. 
producer, of All in the Family, 
Maude, The Jeffersons, -he is an old 
alum- he graduated from Engineering. 
But he always loved drama- he couldnt 
get into Drama school here. He was so 
pleased about it (The New Play Festival) 
he has given us (the Drama Dept.) 10,000 
dollars for the next five years and set up 
the Bud Yorkin Awards for outstanding 
achievement in playwrighting and 
directing. So on April 4th, which is the 
closing night of the festival, Bud will be 
here presenting those awards. We have 
invited a lot of people (at this point he 
showed me a letterhead he had made up 
specifically for the New Play Festival 
which included a list of people on the 
Advisory Board. He then identified the 
people on the Advisory Board for the 
N.P.F.) Dennis Cunningham, he 
taught here, hes the critic for CBS T.V. 
in New York. John Guare is the playw
right (The House of Blue Leaves). 
Kathrine Helmond, from Soap, (she
plays Jessica Tate), Biff Liff, head of the 
Theater Division at the William Morris 
Office, Claire Nichtern who is the head of 
theater at Warner Communications. 
John Ford Noonan, who is a playwright, 
has a play on off-Broadway, White 
Chicks, thats going into its 2nd year, and 
Bud Yorkin- and this is the thrust of the 
festival. These are the festivals advisors. 
Tartan: This panel of advisors has been 
put together for this festival only? 
Shapiro: Yes, and this is our fourth pro
duction of the year. And so besides from 
the concern about bringing professional 
people in as much as possible to work 
with the kids my other emphasis is on 
new plays; and then the thing I most 
dream about is the development of a 
media center, where we will be able to 
train people for film and television work. 
Tartan: Where right now the training is 
mostly for the stage?
Shapiro: Totally for stage. And we have 
alot of alumni on the west coast who are 
very successful in television. Ken John
son who is the producer of The Incredi
ble Hulk, and Gary Smith who does all 
the great television specials. So we hope 
to start a media center very shortly. 
Tartan: What exactly are you doing hereare you teaching classes, directing?
What exactly am I doing 
here? I wake up every 
morning and I say, 'What am 
I doing in Pittsburgh?7
Shapiro: What exactly am I doing here? I 
wake up every morning and I say what 
am I doing in Pittsburgh? I teach the 
directing courses to the graduate direc
tors, I teach an acting workshop for the 
senior actors and I directed one of the two 
plays for the rep this season. I directed 
The Suicide and I do all this, (he 
continued on pagePilobolus: This dance is no fungi!!
by Kathy Krummert
I Hobolus: a genus of phototropic fungi that 
I mds and moves about while growing, and 
I xplodes in all directions when ripe; (a cur-" 
)us, sounds-like-the-speaker-has-a-mouthI dl-of-marbles word; rolls off tongue) 
dobolus: Dance Theatre a six-member 
oupe that explodes with energy in a sculplnal blend of dance, gymnastics, theatre, 
| nd mime; (a curious phenomenon; dancers 
U off one another)
It is the Pilobolus with a capital P (the 
uman form) that will return to Pittsburgh 
|< xl week, on March 2, for one performance 
n,>' at Heinz Hall at 8:00 p.m., sponsored 
V the Pittsburgh Dance Council.
1 heir background is as unusual as their 
panic. At the start, I knew little of the 
| ornpany and wondered what I was in for 
had no idea what Pilobolus was. But, after 
((nversation with David M. Chapman (a 
All graduate) their production stage 
I Manager, and reading a few reviews, I 
J^med a lot.
Jonathan Wolken (a native Pittsburgher)
and Moses Pendleton studied dance under a 
young teacher named Alison Chase at Dart
mouth in 1971. Neither had a dance back
ground. They discovered that their 
dance/gymnastic inventions were forming a 
coherent routine and eventually, with four 
other dancers, fonned a company. Wolken 
had come across pilobolus (thefungi)ear
lier when working in his fathers biophysics 
laboratory during high school. He remem
bered its performance as being similar to 
their own and the company was dubbed 
Pilobolus.
Since its birth, the company has toured 
nationally and internationally, has perfonned on public television, on Broadway, 
and at the 1980 Winter Olympics at Lake 
Placid.
Things just keep rollin along...
There art1 other people beside the dancers 
who make the companys performances pos
sible, the people you dont often hear about.
One such person is David Chapman, who 
beside being the production stage manager, 
occasionally designs the lights for Pilobo
lus. Chapman is 1977 alumnus of CMU
who graduated in technical production. 
When we talked, I asked him about his own 
background and his work with the 
company.
Before Pilobolus, Chapman had gained a 
lot of experience, on high school and local 
college productions in his native area of 
continued on page 16
CMU composers are looking forward lo the Contemporary Emsembles premier of six 
student works. The Contemporary Ensemble, under the baton of CMU music professor 
Leonardo Balada will perform Thursday night, February 26 at 8 PM in the Alumni Concert 
Hall. Michelle DiBucci; John Bickerton; Michael Ski off Peter Aldins

---------------------------------------------------

TOP NOTCH
PTIT
ENGINEERING
DRAFTINGSUPPLIES355-0444
OPEN SAT. 10 to 5 P MART MATERIALS INC.
819 PtNN AVE ( PGH )
SHOWCASE CINEMAS
YVfST  HO Ut f ' W L  I ROBINSON TOWNSHIPFIESTASHOWCASE CINEMAS
TACT HK.HWAYr Ajl Page4 /? MONFK> Vltl F8?4 4 4/4 ? 71 4000XUKwtfht t</a64-3Q0
Page 16The TartanFebruary 24, 1981
THE BEST AMERICAN MOVIE OF THE YEAR
-Jack Kroll. NewsweeK
Raging Bull: Turbulent life of boxer
dressing room mirror in the Barbizon-Plaza 
hotel in New York City. He is reflecting on 
his past, as a young Italian boxer in the 
South Bronx of 1941. A woman is being 
trampled by a raging crowd leaving a prize 
fight. As the action continues we see LaMottas career as a boxer develop, interspersed 
with scenes from his turbulent private life. 
The boxing scenes, although brief, are gra
phic in their violence and moving in their 
cinematography. The gore of the fight 
sequences is accentuated by the surrealistic 
treatment of blood spurting from Jakes 
face. At one point the blood shoots into the 
audience and spatters the judges. At another 
point an ensuing punch is filmed in slow 
motion to extend the impact of the actual 
force.
A dramatic shift takes place in the action 
after Jake loses a championship bout with 
Sugar Ray Robinson. From this point on, 
Jakes life becomes a series of disillusionments and disappointments. All of the 
action is filmed with a severe authenticity as 
imposed by Director Martin Scorcese, which 
heightens the drama of this pathetic boxers 
life.
One means of achieving this authenticity 
is created by the special effects of cinemato
graphy. Every individual facet of the film is 
rich in detail. The soundtrack is composed 
of the original recordings of the time period. 
And the overexposed, grainy, black and 
white film creates the illusion of newsreel 
photography. When the perspective 
changes from that of the third person to the 
personal viewpoint of the LaMottas, a 
montage of color home-movie footage is 
used to illustrate it.
To emphasize what Jake is seeing, certain 
shots are filmed in a soft-focus and slow 
motion technique. Important features of the 
scenes are strengthened by the selectivity of 
the shots employed. The camera angles are 
especially artistic during the boxing scenes, 
which contrast well with the documentary 
style of the film during the narrative scenes. 
Superb editing gives credibility to the fastpaced action of the movie; all incidents not 
directly pertaining to Jake LaMotta are 
absent from the film, leaving some things 
unexplained.
Excellent performances were turned in by 
all of the major actors, who have been
accordingly nominated for Oscars; inclU(j 
ing Robert DeNiro for Best Actor, Joe peS( 
for Best Supporting Actor, and Cathy Mq 
iarity for Best Supportng Actress. Marti 
Scorcese, nominated for Best Dii^o, 
approaches the subject of exposing the base 
side of human relations with great under, 
standing and concern. Raging Bull is ^ 
most successful of Scorceses films (TflXi 
Driver, New York, New York, Mean SfreeJ 
dealing with this subject. Raging Bull'\%^, 
extremely draining film, however, it is alJ 
eminently satisfying, and a film that win 
long be the standard against which other 
film biographies will be judged.
Pilobolus
continued from page 15 
Berkshires, Massachusetts. He was bitten 
by the bug and realized hed found his 
career.
His credits include carpentry and lighting 
with the Berkshire Theatre Festival, techni 
cal directing with the Jacobs Pillow Dana 
Festival, and assistant light designing with 
the 1978 Spoleto Festival. In 1978, Pilobolus 
performed at the Jacobs Pillow Dana 
Festival they needed a production stage 
manager. So Chapman joined Pilobolus.
His responsibilities as production stags 
manager are many. As Chapman described 
Basically I have to advance all productic 
elements, keep in contact with people 
throughout, check requirements for crew., 
all the different elements from cost to light 
ing to sound to making sure the dancers ait 
comfortable. His work is full-time.
Lighting, which he also does on occasion, 
is an integral part of modem dance 
Unlike theatre, modem dance uses few I 
any props with which to set the stage. Creat
ing the mood is left to the lighting ad 
possibly a few hints of naturalistic props. 
He and Neil Peter Jampolis designed the 
lighting for the Pittsbrugh performance.
About the company itself, Chapmans 
enthusiastic tone animated his feelings: 1 
really enjoy working with them, theyre a 
very unique group. Each of them is from a 
different background and each brings a lot 
of his background into the collaboration, 
the setting up. It gives me alot of opportun
ity to work in creative ways.
The groups earlier things tended to be 
very sculptural, before the women were 
added. Now the male/female relationship 
has brought new dimensions...the company 
is growing, metamorphisizing.
A quick skimming-over of numerous 
continued on page 20
A ROBERT CHARTOFF-IRWIN' WINKLER PRODUCTION'ROBERT DE NIRO
in A MARTIN SCORSESE PICTURERAGING BULL
by Gina Osbom and Robert Wagner
The ugliness and self-abusiveness of Jake 
LaMottas life is shocking and yet engross
ing. The attracuon to this repulsive charac
ter, a middle-weight boxing contender, is 
expertly portrayed by Robert DeNiro. 
Unable to control his self-hatred, LaMotta 
leads himself into total mental and physical 
self-destrucdon.
The essence of LaMottas appeal lies in 
his raw animalism. Only Joey LaMotta, 
Jakes brother, is able to control Jakes rag
ing fury. But not even Joey is capable of 
containing his brothers jealousy and vol
canic anger. Jakes violent beadng of Joey 
and Vicki, Jakes beaudful blonde wife, permanently impairs their love for him; con
fronted with the threat of losing both of 
them, Jake is forced to realize how voladle 
his nature is, and that there are serious con
sequences to his acdons. This realizadon is 
the spark that inspires Jake to become 
introspecdve, and progressively transform 
himself into a more docile, and physically 
grotesque, person.
The acdon in the movie begins with a 
bloated Jake LaMotta sitting in front of a
Produced m association with PETER SAVAGE Screenplay bv PAUL SCHRADER and MARDIK MARTIN 
Based on the book bv JAKE LA MOTTA with JOSEPH CARTER and PETER SAVAGE 
Director of photography MICHAEL CHAPMAN Produced by IRWIN WINKLER and ROBERT CHARTOFF 
-y TheNTwsNhparss-  Directed by MARTIN SCORSESE 5*5 United Artists1C. *- Copyright *. 1981 United Artists Corporation All nghts reserve*) # -i T-.,. C-.mp.ir ,

---------------------------------------------------

February 24, 1981The TartanPage 17
Eccentric habits revealed in Milkwood
by Maria Rarbuto
Dylan Thomas only play, Under Milkw00d, captures the various happenings in 
the lives of 33 motley characters in a pictu
resque Welsh town. Originally written for 
iadio, the play is well adapted by the Metro
politan Stage Company and is never
stagnant.
The opening soliloquy, beautifully writ
ten by Thomas and captivatingly orated by 
CMU graduate Michael Cook, sets the play 
in a mellow atmosphere of soothing night, 
and gentle spring. The talented cast then 
begins to reveal the eccentric inhabitants of 
Llareggub. Butcher Beynon (Tom Spinella) 
who was supposedly seen running down the 
street with a finger in his mouth (not his 
own!) sells owl meat and dog eyes. The 
butcher who is clever and happy loves to 
watch his wife squirm as he tells her of his 
latest sale items.
The duel-husbanded Mrs. OgnorePritchard has both of her spouses hen
pecked to the point where they must both 
recite their morning chores before receiving 
permission to retire to bed. She is an amaz
ing woman.
Thomas (thankfully) doesnt bombard us
CMU Graduate Jim Boerlin plays in Milkwood
with the town loonies. He does add some 
very heart warming charmers with whom 
the audience easily identifies with.
There are some tear-jerkers. Two melan
choly lovers who are always apart for some 
reason, eagerly await the postmans arrival 
each day. They are common characters from 
a very familiar situation. There is also a 
blind sea captain who recreates images of his 
past voyages as a means of escape from his 
drudgery. Unrefined Sinbad Sailors who 
loves the very elite and educated Gossamer 
Beynon but knows he cant have her because
Pregnant?
And you didn't mean to be? 
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help call
Birthright 621-1988
Dr. Marcus Bloch, 
LHY
President
Eastern School of Hypnotism
240 Rivington Street 
New York 2. N.Y.
of his ignorance, elicits a sigh of empathy 
from the audience. Lonely Polly Garter 
(Susan Chapek) whose heart was buried 
with her dead lover hits close to home.
The usual collection of weirdos also 
appear. There is a slightly touched town 
preacher who never washes and has a habit 
of dozing off midsermon, which he delivers 
from his window.. No small town is com
plete without a sadistic town cobbler, like 
Jack Black, who shouts Off to Gomorrah 
as he trots off to the woods mumbling about 
whips and chains.
Thomas town of Lloreggub may be in Wales, but it 
could just as easily be a town 
in Pittsburgh.
We meet Mr. Pugh and his butch wife. 
Pugh is deviously engrossed in Lines of 
Famous Poisoners at dinner while his hag 
wife exclaims that pigs are the only individ
uals that read at the table. He casually
declares that pigs dont know how to read 
and she retorts with Well, I know one that 
does which sends him to the basement in a 
mad rush to mix up his latest fatal potion.
The six actors do an incredible job of 
creating the 33 characters and illuminating 
aspects of the land and surroundings using 
only stools for props and Thomas brilliant,
vivid passages. Throughout the play, the 
cast does everything from sound effects (a tea 
pot, a cow7) to engaging in an odd childs 
game to make the town come alive.
Thomas town of Llareggub may be in 
Wales, but it could just as easily be a town in 
Pittsburgh. His town is peopled with ubiq
uitous characters: the town slut, the dedi
cated housewife who lives for her crisp toast 
and sings the praises of her canned plums, 
and the prissy anti-germ fanatic who wont 
let anyone breath on the furniture and pol
ishes potatoes. The town is average, even 
mundane,yet Thomas makes it seem to be 
the most lively and intriguing place in the 
world.
Michael Cook graduated in 1980. While at CMU, he 
played leads in Shaws Misalliance and Rosencrantz 
and Guildenstem Are Dead.
As a software developer 
at Wang, you not only get 
plenty of personal 
freedom and day-to-day 
responsibility  you also 
get the chance to design 
your own future.
 Because nothing says 
you have to follow a 
certain path to success.
For example, if you 
prefer to stay strictly on 
the development side of 
the business, you can 
move up to be a senior 
contributor, working on 
your own or with a team of 
your peers. On the other 
hand, if youd like to lead 
others, there are plenty of
opportunities in technical 
management  where 
youll supervise people 
and direct projects.
Either way, you never 
have to worry about about 
getting trapped in a 
no-growth position, or 
stuck in a job that just isnt 
your style.
The point is: We think 
the best way for you to get 
ahead is your way.
For more information, 
contact Mary Ann Lyons, 
Wang Laboratories, Inc., 
M/S 1106, One Industrial 
Avenue Lowell, MA 01851
At Wang,you choose your own way to the top.
WANG);
1980 Wang Laboratories, Inc.. Lowell. MA 01851 We are an affirmative action employer
Making tha world noni prwtacthw.
Systems Software Development
We will be on Campus March 3nL

---------------------------------------------------

continued from page 15 
pointed to his overloaded desk), adminis
trative work and run the department. So 
its very time consuming. Im here at 9:00 
a;m. and go home at 11:00 p.m. and its a 
very long day.
Tartan: How important is the CMU stu
dent community to you? Do you care if 
they come to see the shows? Do you do 
your shows for any specific audience to 
see?
Shapiro: Yeah, ahh... No! We do our 
shows for an audience. Sure, it should be 
part of the intellectual life of the campus 
to participate as much as possible in all 
these events.
Tartan: So it is important not only to get 
patrons, but you would like for the stu
dents to attend your shows?
Shapiro: Oh sure, students are a better 
audience- always. Theyre usually the 
most wonderful audience in the world. 
They really are bright and with it and 
they participate. They let you know what 
is good and what stinks very fast. Yeah, I 
hope that we start getting more.
"Im very chauvinistic. I 
dont want to do Shakespeare 
like they do it in England.
Tartan: One of the things that previously 
came to my attention was that Berlin to 
Broadway With Kurt Weill was sold out 
te patrons and could be seen only by the 
patrons, CFA faculty and drama students 
that were required to see it. Tickets for the 
show, which seemed to create a lot of 
excitement, just werent available. 
Shapiro: Sold out to the patrons? 
Tartan: Yes.
Shapiro: I dont think it was offered to the 
patrons.
Tartan: Well according to the...
Shapiro: Oh yes, it was. But Berlin To 
Broadway is being extended you know. 
Its moving to the Kresge this Spring. 
Tartan: Right. What happened to Rachinoff, which was originally scheduled for 
the Spring?
Shapiro: Well Im doing a Broadway 
musical, so I was unable to do Rachinoff. 
Tartan: Were you going to direct 
Rachinoff?
Shipiro: Yes I was.
Tartan: What musical are you doing on 
Broadway?
Shapiro: Im doing a musical called The 
Little Prince, and its based on the book 
by Antoine de Saint-Exupery 
Tartan: An old favorite of mine. 
Shapiro: Yeah, and ahh, I hope we dont 
f--k it up, its a lot of peoples favorite. 
Its due to go in rehearsal April 13th and 
it was a direct conflict with Rachinoff. So 
I decided... and Warner Communications 
was partially subsidizing Rachinoff and 
Billy Wilson, the Broadway choreo
grapher who did Eubie and Bubbling 
Brown Sugar was scheduled to do the 
choreography for it. So we all thought, 
well, maybe we should do it next fall. So, 
Rachinoff will be our first show in the 
Fall.
Tartan: There were a lot of people disap
pointed about the lack of tickets for Ber
lin To Broadway, so its fortunate that 
everyone will be able to see it in the 
Spring.
Shapiro: Oh yeah, it was perfect. 
Tartan: It was your idea to take the show 
on the road?
Shapiro: Yeah, cause I want to get our 
work out into the community; and its a 
good experience for the kids as well to 
play to different audiences.
Tartan: When you say you want to take it 
out into the community, do you want to 
publicize whats going on here at the 
school or is it'more like something to 
benefit the community?
Shapiro: Id like for the students to have 
the benefit of playing to as wide an 
audience as possible. Cause this is like a
Tartan: A vacuum?
Shapiro: ...a haven, yes, and go out there, 
let them know what its like in the boon
docks where people fall asleep, ya know, 
come half drunk. But also its giving 
something to the community, which I 
think is part of our job as well. Educa
tionally and as entertainment, we should
be able to do that. So its been rough on 
them. They get on buses, travel an hour 
and a half, they come back here and 
theyre ohhh! we played to farmers last 
night, but thats great. So, I think we 
should do more of that.
Tartan: Do you think farmers come to 
see shows on Broadway?
Shapiro: (He chuckles at this question) 
Rich farmers who can spend 35 dollars a 
ticket to see shows on Broadway. 
Tartan: When you prepare the students 
here for a play do you do anything differ
ent with them than you would do if you 
were on Broadway- approaching that 
cast?
Shapiro: No.
Tartan: Everything is the same? 
Shapiro: Same thing, I deal with them 
very professionally, I deal with them as 
though they can follow the directions- do 
exactly what I would expect a star even to 
do. Theres no messing around. If they 
dont function totally, if theyre not pre
pared or theyre late or they come stoned 
theyre out of the show. Its very hard 
work, and theyre not coddled. Theres a 
great deal expected from them because 
theyre performing in front of an audeince. So no, same thing.
Tartan: What do you think of the quality 
of the students here?
Shapiro: Im amazed, theyre wonderful, 
very good. My cast in The Suicide was 
divine. I adored them, they were terrific, 
and ahh.. I heard such bad comments 
about the school before I got here. 
Tartan: About the school or the Drama 
Department?
Shapiro: The Drama Department. 
Tartan: And what did you hear? 
Shapiro: (Laughing and speaking dram
atically) It was slipping. It had 
lost its grip.
Tartan: Who told you that; the Trustees? 
Shapiro: The world, the world. But the kids 
were terrific, I didnt know what they 
were...I thought they were much more tal
ented than...I also teach at N.Y. U.
Tartan: What makes the students here so 
good?
Shapiro: I think there has always been in 
this school great expectations of profession
alism. Great expectations towards rising to 
the occassion. Tyrone Guthrie, the great
English Director, was always trying to get 
everybody to rise to an occassion. And thats 
sort of still here, every body works up to their 
best. Where at many other schools they do as 
little as possible to just get on through. Also 
I think the kids here are less diffuse than ina 
place like N.Y. Youre in Pittsburgh and 
theres not that much to do in Pittsburgh
"I think there has always 
been in this school great 
expectations of professional __Mism
except...
Tartan: Study...
Shapiro:..Study and your theater is here 
basically. In New York if youre bored with 
your class you can go to 15 movies, you can 
see 40 plays, you can get very anxious about 
auditioning; all that work syndrome and 
anxiety comes in. Youre off trying to get a 
commercial instead of trying to prepare 
yourself for your technique. So I think the 
fact that youre away from New York is a 
great advantage here. It is.
Tartan: For the actors...
Shapiro: Yeah.
Tartan: Asked to comment on differences 
between the Drama Department now and in 
his time, Arne Zaslove said that more 
attention was paid to the old classics-he 
mentioned Shakespeare, Ibsen, and 
Chekhov as examples. He said it was out of 
fashion now and people werent teaching 
them as much. Do you still teach these old 
classics?
Shapiro: Oh, no we teach them, but we 
dont perform them. No, we do perform 
them. I think that the world has changed 
since the time Ame and I went to college the 
world has changed; and what people think 
is dramatic and viable on the stage is 
different from. . . Thank God its different! 
Tartan: In terms of training, though, I think 
continued on page 19
WESTRNWUYOUR FUTURE
PERFECT CLIMATE.
If youre looking for a company where youll find a great future, 
come to Draper Laboratory where were already in the future. With 
projects as advanced as the space shuttle, fault tolerant computers, 
automation, and computer aided design.
At Draper, you can really push your skills to the limit 
and use everything you know. Close by MIT, we serve 
as a bridge between academia and industry, so youll work in a climate 
of intellectual freedom. And, youll be able to pursue an advanced 
degree while you work here.
Everything at Draper adds up to a great place 
to start your career. Youll also love our proximity to 
the cultural and entertainment attractions of Boston 
and the recreational pleasures (hiking, skiing, swimming, etc.) of New 
England. So check us out. Weve got many opportunities in Electrical 
Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Aeronautical Engineering, 
Computer Science, Optics, Materials Science, Mathematics and 
Applied Physics.
Send your resume to Dr. Daniel E. Gladkowski at The Charles Stark Draper Laboratory, Inc., 555 Technology Square, Dept. C, Cambridge, MA 02139.
The Charles StarkDraper Laboratory, Inc.
CALL S7I-2M1CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

February 24, 1981The TartanPage 19
continued from page 18
the old classics are a valuable thing to have 
in ones vocabulary.
Shapiro: In terms of training?
Tartan: Yes, in terms of background. 
Shapiro: Oh, we still do all that. My whole 
senior class, for the first four months we 
worked on Shakespeare, and in the 
sophomore acting classes, I mean they work 
from Ibsen and Chekhov all the way up to 
Tennessee Williams, Arthur Miller, and 
Edward Albee, John Ford Noonan and John 
Guare. I mean, there is a very wide range of 
dramatic literature that we use in our 
training.
Tartan: So you are studying these classicsyoure just not performing them as much
now?
Shapiro: Were doing Twelfth Night. So 
were sdll performing it, but the emphasis is, 
for me, on new American writing; and I 
think that as a theater artist you should be 
able to span as wide a spectrum as possible 
from the classics to new American 
playwrighting. What Im interested in is 
creating, being part of rather an indigenous 
American style. Im very chauvinistic. I 
dont want to do Shakespeare likey they do it 
in England. I dont want to do Shakespeare 
the way they do it in Canada, which is like 
they do it in England. I dont want to do 
Shakespeare like the way they used to do it at 
the Tyrone Guthrie Theater, which is like 
| the way they do it in England ami Canada.
Tartan: Who is Tyrone Guthrie?
Shapiro: Ah, well, youve got a gap in your 
knowledge. He was the great, one of the 
greatest directors of the 20th century. He 
worked at the old Vic allthrough die war 
5 and after4 the war; helped rebuild it with 
Laurence Olivier and John Gieguld and 
was one of the most completely talented 
theater directors in the world. And they
established a theater in Minnesota in his 
name. He also founded the Stratford Festival 
in Canada; and he and Tanya Moysayavich 
the great designer devised the thrust stage. 
So all the open stages you see now are 
because of the work of Guthrie and 
Moysayavich. He was primarily responsible 
for the modernism of Shakespeare in his 
time. He got it completely out of the 
Victorian period; and he did a lot of 
gimmicks withmodern dress or changing 
the period of the play etc.
Tartan: There are some who believe that 
changing Shakespeares plays around 
constitutes a rape--a bastardization of the 
plays; not really what Shakespeare had in 
mind.
I did a musical version of 
Two Gentlemen of Verona, 
as a rock musical, which was 
extremely successful.
Shapiro: Well, thats just... I cant. .. You 
know then you could say that there should 
never have been a Peter Brook or a Tyrone 
Guthrie or a Trevor Nunn or anybody who 
ever did innovation on Shakespeare. Why 
dont we just read the plays and stop 
performing them. If its so outrageous to us, 
that we take off itihe .farthing-gales and the
ruffs and all the Elizabethan costumes. . . 
and how do we know what Shakespeare 
intended? We have no documentation on it. 
Why did they do Antony and Cleopatra in 
their modem way? Why didnt they do it in 
the period? Its just nonsense. A 
bastardization of Shakespeare is when you 
boldarize the text, mutilate the text. Now, I 
did a musical version of Two Gentlemen of 
Verona, as a rock musical, which was 
extremely successful. Joe Papp was worried 
that people were going to sav it was a 
bastardization. But, actually the people wno 
knew the play felt it illuminated what the 
basic core of the play was. The lyrics did it, 
and then we substituted sonnets from 
Shakespeare. Its hardly the worlds greatest 
play but what the core of that play was-- 
which was about self-love and betrayal-I 
thought we did. I think that if you get to 
what the core of the play is about and 
illuminate it in a new way, if you really vent 
its basic meaning, than certainly youre not 
bastardizing it. Its so silly. . .
Tartan: Are you doing anything about 
publicity, to solicit the support of the 
surrounding Pittsubrgh community? You 
mentioned taking Berlin to Broadway on 
the road. . .
Shapiro: Well what were doing is having* 
Twelfth Night reviewed, (by the Pittsburgh 
Press) and it was not something I wanted to 
do.
Tartan: Why? $
Shapiro: Well, I said to George Anderson 
(he writes for the Pittsburgh Press) today I 
have very mixed feelings about it. I dont 
know if reviewing students is viable. 
Tartan: If taking them out and putting 
them in front of farmers is viable, why 
isnt reviewing them viable?
Shapiro: Well, if you get a rave... A person 
can get a rave review for the wrong reasons 
or a pan for the wrong reasons. They are in 
their training; however, I finally decided to 
review them because I want to let Pittsburgh 
know we exist, that were an open house, 
that were not an ivory tower, that we would 
love to have them come and ahh.. .see some 
good shows. Absolutely, I want to play to 
Pittsubrgh. You know, its just in some 
closed off littie narcissistic joint where 
people contemplate their navels, thats not 
theater to me. So well see what happens.
Students are usually the most 
wonderful audience in the 
world.
Im very committed to new 
plays and playwrighting
Tartan: Are you happy with the way things 
are going?
Shapiro: Im having a good time, yeah I like
it. . .
MEET 
PRESIDENT CYERT
Your opportunity to ask Dr. Cyert about university issues.
COME IN 
PHONE IN 
TUNE IN
Donner Hall Feb. 25 8-9 p.m. 
621-WRCT or 578-2883 
WRCT-FM 88.3
Presented live as a public service.
RCT
88.3
Funded by Student Senate.
At Great "X we're looking ahead with something that will keep you coming back again and again.
Hair cutters that listen.
NAfaCUTS 
(Wash-Cut-Slow)12
Mon. March Wtd. 10*7 
Thun. fri. 10-#
Sat. 9-ti
COLMINO
197  tweed Street 
Across tfie street froM
NRMANCNTS
25o
UNISEX HAW SALONNo Appointment

---------------------------------------------------

]
Page 20The TartanFebruary 24, 1981
continued from page 16 
reviews evidenced the success of their keen, 
collaborative efforts and of the work of peo
ple like Chapman.
Both audiences and critics like Pilobolus.
In a review last year, Clive Bames of the 
New York Times raved about Pilobolus. He 
described them as sui generis not deve
loped from the past; the reason for this being 
that they were never really taught technique 
and theyre not really dancers. In fact, it may 
well be that the only new thing in dance 
(since no one can remember when) is only 
new because it isnt dance. It is Pilobolus! 
He continued on the same theme by end
ing his review on this note: "Sui generis. 
Pilobolus is a do-it-yourself kit for people 
who decided they would like to dance but 
substituted instinct for heritage, and their 
own gymnastically trained bodies for the 
quite differently trained bodies of dancers.
Add a little mime, the thoughtful drama of 
closet symbolism, and mix the whole thing 
together and you have a new form of popdance. A form for which, so far as popularity 
goes, the sky could be the limit. They could 
even be about to provide dance for people / 
who do not really like dance.
And if you dont know dance very well 
continued on paee 22
Pilobolus Dance Theatre at Heinz Hall. The P.T.D. (company members shown in photos) 
will return to Pittsburgh for one performance only on Monday, March 2 in Heinz Hall, at 
8:00 p.m.
Dance: Pilobolus
All those years, all those dreams, all those sons.. * 
one of them is going to be a star.
COLUMBIA PICTURES PRESENTS 
A MARTIN RANSOHOFF PRODUCTION 
A RALPH BAKSHI FILM 
"AMERICAN POP
"R7|IFSTRICTFI|1 Written by RONN1 KERN Executive Producer RICHARD ST. JOHNS ____________
Produced by MARTIN RANSOHOFF & RALPH BAKSHI Directed by RALPH BAKSHI [Xlt^SELT 5-S
NSfltCTlCJ'HiAIMS nctwwOpening at Selected Theatres Near You.

---------------------------------------------------

February 24, 1981The TartanPage 21
Meet the CIT Senators: Part two in a Tartan series
flame: Nina Houska 
Year: Junior 
Major: Metallurgy & Materials
Science
Senate Experience: 2 1/2 years (ViceChair General Campus and 
Information (GC & I), Chair GC & I, 
Vice-Chairperson Senate, Chair
person Senate, Chair Constitutional 
evision Committee)
1 Since your election, what changes has 
Senate implemented that: 
a) affected its internal operation?
In the years since I first became a member 
of Student Senate, the only major 
constitutional changes that affected Senates 
internal operation were made this spring 
and last fall. Previous to that, the changes 
were only to clarify wording.
Last spring it became obvious because of 
the impeachment and resignation of the 
president of student government and the 
necessity to once again rerun a general 
Senate election that major changes were 
needed in the constitution and bylaws (sic). 
Mike Inners and I (the former Chairperson 
and Vice-Chairperson of Senate) began 
work on possible changes when we saw that 
the new Senate was made up of entirely new 
inexperienced members who probably 
would not be able to see what the real 
problems had been. I was appointed as 
Chairperson of a Constitutional Revision 
Committee and over the summer collected 
relevant information from 30 different 
schools.
In the fall, my committee made the 
following major changes: First, we created 
an election board which is made up of 
appointed representatives from each college 
and is responsible for running the election 
and for imposing and enforcing the election 
reules and regulations. This takes the 
running of Senate elections out erf the hands 
of Student Senate and into the hands erf a 
more neutral body.
b) specifically affected a segment of the 
campus community?
There are many things that are of 
importance to different segments of the 
campus community. The main one that we 
have worked on over the last couple of years 
are: the agreement reached with the GSO 
over their controlling part of their activities 
fee with the arbitration of the 
administration; the replacement of the old 
food service with the Marriott (which I 
worked on with other leaders of campus 
organizations last spring); and obtaining 
more funds for the library two years ago 
(when as Chair of GC 8c 11 worked with the 
Chairperson of Academic Affairs gathering 
information).
There are other investigations of smaller 
importance that we work on everday. If 
anyone has any problems, they should 
contact us.
The GSO has erf course had to work with 
us very closely reoendy due to the questions 
over the activities fee and graduate 
representation cm Senate. In the past, we 
have had a bit of an advisory relationship 
but recendy-since the last elections-we 
seem to be able to work more easily with 
them. I am hoping that we will be able to 
work with them in the future on issues of 
mutual concern to both of us.
Then there is The Tartan which we have 
always worked closely with because of the 
nature of our two organizations. With them 
we have always had a mutually critical 
relationship-pointing out each others 
flaws. Ive been very pleased though recendy 
by the amount of coverage that we have been
1. Since your election, what changes has 
Senate implemented that* 
a) affected its internal operation?
Name: Laurie Elm, Vice-Chairman 
of Student Senate 
Year: Junior 
Major: Metallurgy 8c Materials 
Science/AMS 
Senate Experience: 11/2 years
1. Since your election, what changes has 
Senate implemented that:
a) affected its internal operation?
Senate has undergone major internal 
changes since spring 1980. A well defined 
structure was definitely lacking and flaws in 
our constitution became apparent when 
impeachment proceedings were initiated 
against the president of the student 
government. A call (sic) of the spring 
election, too, made evident the necessity for a 
detailed scrutiny of our internal procedures. 
2. With what other student organization(s) Since that time, many revisions have been 
does Senate work most closely, and in what impiemented. The duties of the student
capacity? government president have been more
The Senate has worked closely in the past carefully defined and the grounds for rewith quite a few different oiganizations. It is running an election have become more
really dependent on what the emphasis of stringent. in addition Student Senate
Senate is for that particular semester. elections are no longer run by the Senate.
We have worked with SDC about the fire instead, an election board has been
hazards in Morewood in the past, but established, with my help, to serve as an
unfortunately our lines of communication external check on the elections validity.
have not been very good recently._________ Mandatory Senate office hours have been
established and enforced to improve Name: Mark J. Fisher Senate/campus communication.
Yean Sophomore 
Major: Civil Engineering 
Senate Experience: 1 Semester
(Finance Committee)
Senate has implemented a number of 
changes which help everything run more 
smoothly. Through a constitutional 
amendment, proxy votes are allowed for 
Senators who must leave a meeting but who 
wish to have their vote cast. The formation 
of the election board has totally separated 
the election process from Senate control.
Additionally, the bylaws are followed to the 
continued on page 26
getting and the overall improvement in our 
way of approaching each other.
Second, so that there would no longer be 
any confusion over the duties of the 
president of student government, we defined 
the job as dearly as possible. This included 
the meetings that must be attended and 
other representative duties.
An Executive Committee was also created 
to advise the president on student 
appointments and the current needs of the 
campus. It is made up of the presidents erf 
the representative oiganizations on campus.
This term amendments have also been 
made that eliminated half-term seats, 
changing the time erf the spring elections, 
and allowing for proxy votes by senators.
b) specifically affected a segment of the 
campus community?
Last year, Senate was responsible for 
recommending an activities fee increase 
from $30 to $50/year, which the Board of 
Trustees approved. Individual campus 
organizations are now able to improve their 
programmed activities because of addtional 
available funds. Probably the most 
important change Senate has implemented, 
however, was its recognition of a Graduate 
Student Organization (GSO) designed to 
meet the needs of graduate students. Next 
year it will receive 37% of the graduate
students activities fees to be budgeted 
among their departments.
Presently, the Architecture Department 
has received our support in their efforts to 
establish a well defined core curriculum for 
an undergraduate degree.
2. With what other student organizations) 
does Senate work most closely, and in what 
capacity?
Senate, at present, is working closely with 
GSO, attempting to maintain contacts with 
this organization that encompasses 1/4 erf 
the enrolled students at CMU. Unity on this 
campus is erf utmost importance, and close 
Senate/GSO relations establish a necessary 
cohesiveness on this campus. Senate is also 
in contact with The Tartan, for it serves as 
the major source of information 
dissemination. It provides a means for 
students to relay their concerns and for 
Senate to become aware of these issues. 
Senate is involved with SDC, for the 
concerns of the residents on this campus 
must be the concerns of its student 
government. To obtain maximum 
organization contacts, ex-officio seats on 
Senate exist for SDC, UFO, and GSO. We 
are thus able to remain well-informed, 
working with the organizations and for the 
organizations.
254204. REMBRANDT PAINTINGS.
By Horst Gerson. Over 730 Illus., Ind. 
Many Large Full Color Plates. Complete, 
authoritative and beautiful presentation of 
the great masters work. Written by one of 
the worlds foremost Rembrandt authorities 
wha has combined impeccable scholarship 
with a lucid style. Gives a complete exami
nation of the artist and his world offering a 
startling image of Rembrandts life and art. 
The book was thirty years in the making in 
Amsterdam, and is lavishly illustrated with 
spectacular reproductions. 527 pages. 11 x 
1454. Orig. Pub. at $60.00. Only $29.95.
ON SALE NOW ATemu bookstore
L
iRON CITY REGULAR 
IRON CITY LIGHT 
SCHLITZ 
BUO
SCHMIDTS
SCHMIOTS BOCK OARK 
CHAMPALE WHITE 
OR PINK 
STROHS 
GENESEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHLITZ
BALLANTINE ALE 
MICHELOB REGULAR 
MICHELOB LIGHT 
PABST
PABST EXTRA LIGHT 
MILLER 
MILLER LIGHT 
COLT 45
GENESEE CREAM ALE 
WEIOEMAN
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak Subs
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM - 2 AM
QUARTS MUGS PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 OIFFERENT ORAFT BEERS 
MILLER. MICHELQB MOLSON ALE. HEINEKEN.
STR0HS ANO SCHLITZ MALT 
One different 16 ox. 6 pk featured each week
SCHLITZ * PABST 
SCHLITZ MILT * STROHS 
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
* SPECIALTY ITEMS *
FRtSH CUT FRENCH FRIES-PIZZA SERVED TIL  AM 
HOT DOG? - CHOICE OF 12 OIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 
IS VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES 
IMPORTS
Original^ ^ HOT 00G
 BECKS LIGHT OR OARK 
Germany
' CARLSBURG MALT 
Denmark
 DORT HANSA Germany
 HOfBRAU Germany
 FISCHER G010 France
 HOISTED LAGER Germany 
' ST PAULI GIRL Germany
 SPATEN Germany
' RIGNES SPECIAL Norway 
 SWAN LAGER Australia
 BASS ALE England
 MAC KES0N STOUT 
England
' LOwENBRAU LIGHT OR 
OARK Germany
WHITEBRIAO PALE ALE
?ILSNER URQUELlCzechoslovakia
RIGNES Norway
00S EQUIS Meiico
P f H ON I Italy
GUINESS STOUT Ireland
GROLSCHt Holland
G0SSER Austria
SAN MIGUEL PhtllpmesKIRIN Japan
MOLSON ALE Canada
KRAKUS Poland
HEINEKEN LT * OK Holland
FOSTER S LAGER AustraliaAMO MANY OTHERS
SHOPS INC 621-7388 or 621 -11833*01 FORBES AV. (OAKLAND) PGM., PA. 1S213

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanFebruary 24, 1981
by Adam Lauzar and Kathy Barsom
The Associated Artists of Pittsburghs Sev
enty First Annual Exhibition is now exhib
iting through March 15 in the Scaife Gallery 
at the Carnegie Institutes Museum of Art. 
Based in the Arts and Crafts Center in Shadyside, the Association is the oldest guild of 
its kind in the United States. The Associa
tion was originally developed so that artists 
in the Pittsburgh and surrounding areas 
could gain recognition and exposure in 
their particular medium.
Edward Burke Hunning, Chief Curator 
of Modem Art, Cleveland Museum of Art, 
and one of the jurors in the panel selecting 
the works to be exhibited, said that, The 
works submitted are so varied in style and 
technique that no Pittsburgh Style can be 
discerned.
Thirteen awards were given out by var
ious foundations and corporations, includ
ing the U.S. Steel Corporation, the 
Allegheny Foundation and Vira I. Heinz 
Fund. All the pieces in the exhibit were 
judged on the basis of traditional qualities 
such as drawing, composition, and han
dling of materials. The jurors also looked 
for the works ability to convey a message or 
emotion that is satisfying to the viewer. 
Each artist was permitted to submit three 
works.
Included in the show are: paintings, 
drawings, lithographs, photographs, sculp
tures, pottery, ceramics, fabrics, collages, 
glass works, jewelry, wood works, paper and 
wood reliefs, and sketches.
Among the exhibits vast and varied 
works, there were six pieces representing the 
various art forms that were particularly 
memorable.
Memories, a watercolor, prismacolor by 
Ilene Winn Leder, is a mixture of mediums 
that portrays four ink individuals whose 
respective memories and histories are super
imposed on their figures in colorful watercolors, creating a dream-like quality.
Totem for Our Time, is a six foot four 
inch clay sculpture composed of ceramic 
bottles and canisters which reminds one of a 
combination of Big Bird, a totem pole, and a 
weather vane.
Above is Alfred Charleys Fan/Plastic. Winner of the Gulf Oil Corporation Award.
Below is Mist on Mingo Creek by Charles C. Pitcher
Art: Associated artists of Pittsburghimpress
Technicolor Clown, a watercolor collage 
by W. Cullen Smith, disguises new Presi. 
dent Ronald Reagan as a technicolor clown 
The collage lampoons Reagans career as 
actor, cowboy, and politician.
Elizabeth and Essex, is an ink composj. 
tion by Edward Painter, done in black 
white, and gray. The primitive mask faces in 
this work suggest an African influence.
Pillars of Society, a soft sculpture by 
Nancy M. Fort, is a humorous display of 
pillow people that looks like a frozen 
moment from a Twyla Tharp dance 
rehearsal.
Fan/Plastic, an inflated sculpture, 200 
feet in length, by Alfred Charely, is one of 
the exhibits most adventurous and abstract 
pieces. It fills up one entire room. The Fan/Plastic received the Gulf Oil Corporation 
Award.
The exhibit, which spans five spacious 
rooms, is an impressive display of Pittsburghs artistic scope and talent, and is well 
worth taking time out to view. Gallery 
hours are: Tuesday through Saturday, 10 
a.m. to 5 p.m., Sunday, 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. The 
exhibit is closed Mondays.
Pilobolus
continued from page 20 
and are having a rough time visualizing 
what a Pilobolus performance would look 
like, John Skow seems to have described 
them well in TIME: There are four men 
and two women in the troupe, and they slip 
with disconcerting ease from dance patterns 
in which they are sexually distinct figures, to 
movements in which they are asexual huminoids, and then further, to strange massing 
in which we see not figures but a wholly 
unfamiliar tree of elbows and buttocks, then 
a viscous fluidity of flesh that breaks like a 
wave, then a great, undifferentiated lump 
that slams itself about on the sculptor's 
table, starding us with its momentary 
resemblances to beasts remembered from 
dreams.
Dmuer neui Horizons at CUHROU
Enter CLAIROLS world ol innovative career experiences as part of 
our engineering management staff. Challenging opportunities 
await you in our Operations Management Program.
 Process Engineering  Project Engineering
 Industrial Engineering
 Production Supervision
 Production Planning & Material Control
Our representatives will be on campus...
March 4f 1981
at the Placement Office
An Equal Opportunity Employer M F H

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
Tartans downed twice and move to third in standings
by Denny Postufka
The Tartans hope of capturing this 
years PAC crown are crumbling with only a 
week remaining in league play. After start
ing off strong with a 6-0 record, the Tar
tans have lost four of their last six to drop 
their record to 8-4, one game behind first 
place Allegheny and Betliany. CMU must 
n0W win their remaining two games, 
tonight at home against Washington and 
Jefferson and Thursday at Bethany, which 
whould create a three way tie for first place.
Last week it was John Carroll and Hiram 
dealing the lethal blows to the Tartans. 
John Carroll held on to defeat the Tartans 
70-68 last Wednesday, with a little help 
from the Cleveland officials who are notor
ious for hammering CMU at John Carroll. 
The Blue Streaks couldnt muster a lead of 
more than five points, but the Tartans 
couldnt capitalize and never led the last 
eight minutes of the contest.
The Tartans shooting was once again 
not up to par, shooting 47% from the floor
compared to John Carrolls 55%. Joe Belechak led all scorers with 18 points and Dave 
Hofmeister led with 13 rebounds.
Saturdays 69-62 loss at Hiram really put 
a damper on CM U s title hopes. The Tar
tans hit a cold spell near the end of the first 
half and the Terriers were up by seven, 36- 
29, at intermission. CMU came back to 
within three a few times in the second half, 
but couldnt grab the lead.
Joe Belechak was one again the lead 
scorer with 18, followed by Dave Hofmeisters 15 points and 16 rebounds.
PAC STANDINGS
by Toni Zuliani
The CMU Ice Tartans broke their losing 
streak by beating West Virginia University 
9-5 before a home crowd at the Civic Arena.
The first period clearly belonged to CMU 
as four out of nine shots made their way past 
the WVU goal tender. This scoring spree 
was started by a scramble in front of the net 
with a high shot by Matt Maddelene, 
assisted by Steve Farrell and Tim Carlin. 
Only a minute later, Ray Hanley added one 
with the help of Mark Wildman and Archie 
Werner. Rick Samuelsen then got his first 
goal of the day, again assisted by Wildman. 
Seconds later, Werner scored from a pass by 
Hanley, assisted by Doug Camey. WVU 
tried and tried but couldnt get one past 
Steve Machemis, CMUs goaltender, in the 
period, giving Machemis a first period shu
tout by deflecting 13 WVU shots.
During the second period, neither team 
domihated, and both had nine shots a piece. 
Just minutes into the period, WVU was 
down one man and Carlin capitalized with a 
quick slap shot. A half a minute later W VU 
got its first goal. Carlin, continuing to lead 
the Tartans in penalty minutes, left CMU 
shorthanded at 6:41. However, this failed to 
stop Samuelsen who, unassisted, scored on a 
breakaway.
WVU retaliated on that same power play, 
scoring for the second time. But WVUs 
over-enthusiasm caused another penalty, 
allowing the CMU captain, Jeff Reh, to beat 
the WVU goalie with the help of Frank
Carter and Mark Licata. Only seconds later, 
WVU scored again. With men from each 
team serving a penalty, Samuelsen scored 
his third goal, with help from Werner, thus 
.giving the CMU rookie another hat trick, 
his third of the season. This ended the 
period with CMU ahead 8-3.
The start of the third period saw CMU 
back up goalie Jay Brodsty defending the 
Tartan net. With both teams tiring from an 
agressive game, the third period had little 
scoring, but a total of 12 penalty minutes. 
West Virginia scored their last two goals out 
of six shots. Although CMU had 13 shots 
only one goal was scored by Reh, with 
assists given to the remainder of his line, 
Samuelsen and Licata.
This win brought the Tartans up to a 300 
average. The fight for a playoff spot con
tinues as CMU battles the first ranked Iron 
Dukes of Duquesne on Saturday, February 
29, at Lakevue Ice Palace, at 3 PM.
Correction
In last weeks Tartan, the headline to the 
IM article incorrectly read, Intramural 
Sports: Pika-A bowls over opposition. Phi 
Kappa Theta-A, not Pika-A, won the 
bowling championship though. The editor 
sends his congratulations to PKT and 
regrets this mistake.
Allegheny 9 3 0.750
Bethany 9 3 0.750
CMU 8 4 0.667
Hiram 6 6 0.500
W&J 6 6 0.500
Case Western 5 7 0.417
John Carroll 5 7 0.417
Thiel 0 12 0.000
HiramFG-FGAFT-FTAPTS
Apthorpe7-190-114
Eisaman3-71-37
Miller3-55-711
Ellis7-160-014
McCleary7-125-719
Shivers0-12-22
Termini0-02-22
TOTALS27-6015-2269
CMUFG-FGAFT-FTAPTS
Hobart4-141-29
Mulac4-123-411
Hofmeister6-103-415
Donahoe4-101-19
Belechak9-21: 0-018
Bennett0-40-00
Lewis0-00-00
Miklasevich0-10-00
TOTAL22-728-1162
photo by Doug Ellis
Joe Belechak led CMU both games last week with 18 points. Belechak broke 1000 career 
points two weeks ago. See related article on page 24.
CMU slashes WVU, Samuelsen gets third hat trick
photo by Doug Ellis
CMUs Ice Tartans set up to deliver one of their nine goals against WVU last week. 
Tartan teams in action this week_-------------------------------------------------------
Tue. Feb. 24
Thu. Feb. 26 
Fn. Feb. 27
s<it. Feb. 28
WOMENS BAS KIT'BALI, 
MENS BASKETBALL 
MEN S BASKE IT5AI1. 
WOMENS BASKETBAIX 
SWIMMING 
FENCING 
SWIMMING
CMU vs. Betliany(H) 6PM
CMU vs. W&J(H)8PM
CMU vs. Bethany(A) 8PM
CMU vs. W&J(A) 7PM
PAC Championship(A) TBA
NAC Tourney(A) 9AM
PAC Championship(A) TBA

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24The TartanFebruary 24, 1981
Belechak and Segmiller top 1000points
On February 14, 1981, two people entered 
into CMUs record books. Basketball players 
Kassie Segmiller and Joe Belechak both 
broke the 1000 career point barrier on that 
Saturday.
Kassie Segmiller, 5'6" forward for the 
womens team, became the first woman in 
the schools history to break the 1000 point 
mark. She reached the plateau in the Tar
tans 72-69 win over St. Francis. She came 
into the game with 997 points and scored 
her 1000th point on a lay up with 18:30 left 
in the first half. She went on to add 26 more, 
finishing the game with 30.
Segmiller, a graduate of Chartiers Valley 
High School, has been the Tartans leading
scorer since she was a freshman. That year 
she averaged 23.4 points a game and was 
named to the all-Pennwood West Confer
ence first team. Last season, she again led the 
Tartans in scoring with a 21.2 point average 
and was a third CoSida Academic AllAmerican.
This season, Segmiller has been slowed 
by an ankle injury but is still netting 20.1 
points per game, again leading the team. 
Coach Gene Klein says of Segmiller, Kassie 
has been a tremendous performer for us for 
the past three seasons. We look to her for the 
bulk of our scoring and she hasnt let us 
down.
Joe Belechak, 6'2" guard for the mens
team, scored his 1000th career point during 
the Tartans 91-72 loss to Allegheny. Bele
chak entered the game with 989 points and 
scored his 1000th point from the foul line 
with 2:32 remaining in the first half. He 
added eight more by the end of the game, 
finishing with 19.
Belechak, a graduate of St. Thomas High 
School in North Braddock, Pa, has been a 
consistent performer for the Tartans since 
his freshman year. That year he averaged 9.3 
points a game. In the last two seasons, he has 
averaged 13.6 and 13.2 points per game, to 
be the second leading scorer each year 
behind Larry Hufnagel, CMUs last 1000 
point scorer.
CMU women lose close to Seton Hill
by Bob Share
The CMU womens basketball team 
dropped a heartbreaking 51-50 decision to 
Seton Hill at Skibo Gym Wednesday. The 
defeat evened the Tartans record in the Pennwood West Conference at 4-4.
The game was a hard fought seesaw battle 
throughout, with neither team ever holding
a lead of more than four points. With dme 
running out, the Plaid clung to a 50-49 
advantage, but with seven seconds to play, a 
CMU holding foul was called, giving Seton 
Hill an opportunity to win it from the char
ity stripe. Seton Hill connected on both ends 
of the one-and-one, and in doing so handed 
the Tartans the loss.
nopublicsteel
At Republic Steel, were building a super team.
And you could be one of our high draft choices--for a super career in steel.
Youll feel a sense of strength and vitality at Republic Steel. For good 
reasons. Were looking to the future, in every department. And 
shaping it, through excellence in management. At Republic, millions 
are being invested in large-scale modernization programs, and 
millions more in new, state-of-the-art facilities. Weve always been a leader in steelmaking technology, and our research is finding new 
products to solve industry problemsstronger, lighter-weight, more 
advanced steels. And this is only part of everything thats happening.
Youll find sophisticated management in every area. Management 
that wants you to take partto stretch, grow and contribute. There is 
no industry more essential than steel, and no challenges more demanding than those youll face at Republic Steel today. The 
continuing challenges that differentiate a career from a job.
And entry level opportunities are open, equally, to all who qualify.
You can choose good-living locations offering fast-paced metro- politan-style in Chicago, Cleveland and Buffalo, or small community environment such as Canton/Massillon, Ohio; Warren/Youngstown, 
Ohio; and Gadsden, Alabama. Make plans to see the Republic representative who will visit your campus soon, or send your resume 
to Supervisor, College Relations and Recruitment, Republic Steel 
Corporation, P. O. Box 6778, Cleveland OH 44101.
We will interview on March 5
"an equal opportunity employerlEepiililicsteel
Sophomore center Debbie Durr and jun
ior forward Kassie Segmiller combined for 
two thirds of CMUs points, as Durr led 
with seventeen points and Segmiller fol
lowed with sixteen. Durr played her usually 
fine defensive game as well, pulling down 
seventeen rebounds, while senior forward 
Alex Allen hauled in eleven.
photo by Chuck Chidekel 
Robin Lucas lunges for CMU last Saturday.
CMU fencers 
to go to Jersey
by Robin Lucas
The CMU fencing team met this week 
with teams from WVU, Oberlin, and Indiiana University of Pa. Thursday the Tar
tans beat IUP in an all-foil meet 3-1, with 
the only loss in the mens B team. Saturday 
CMU ded Oberlin 2-2 in men and womens 
foil, sabre, and epee, but won overall on 
bouts. The same afternoon the Tartans 
defeated WVU, who forfeited three weapons 
but managed to score in epee. The final in 
that match was 3-1 in CMUs favor. The 
Tartans will meet McKeesport this Tuesday 
in Thisde Hall at 5:30 p.m. Chatham will 
send a representative from their womens 
foil team.
Attending the North Adantic Conference 
next weekend in New Jersey will be Kris 
Scigliano and Jay Michaels in mens foil, 
Scott Rose and Dan Mapes in sabre, Mike 
Cramer and Stuart Harrison in epee. Alter
nates in their respective weapons are James 
Marshall, Dave Golden, and Darren Shaw. 
Finalists in the North Atlantic Conference 
will qualify for the NCAA nadonals on 
March 18-20.
Fencing last week under coach Jane Fisk 
were:
Womens foil - Robin Lucas (co-captain), 
Beth Rrannick, Karen Schultz.
Mens foil - Kris Scigliano (co-captain), 
Jay Michaels, James Marshall, Eric Toft, 
Mike Prescott, Bob Aarhus.
Sabre - Scott Rose, Dan Mapes, Mark 
Masitis, Dave Golden.
Epee - Mike Cramer, Darren Shaw, Stuart 
Harrison, James Marshall.
The Joan Kerr Dance Company 
Presents
A multi-media exploration of the 
Nazi Holocaust.
Time: 8:00 p.m.
Place: Camegie-Mellon U. Ballroom (Skibo). 
Date Monday, March 2, 1981.
Admission is free and open to the public.
Sponsored by the Bnai Brith hillel and the 
Camegie-Mellon University Music-theatre 
Program.
ABORTION
 free pregnancy tests
 confidential counseling
WOMENS HEALTH 
SERVICES, INC.
downtown Pittsburgh 
(412) 562-1910
 non-profit medical facility

---------------------------------------------------

February 24, 1981The TartanPage 25
Intramural sports: New foosball league starting
by Leslie Weiser
In intramural news this week the basket^11 competition remains heated with 
Lucifer ahead in the major league; Tar 
Hells and D-Force tied in the intermediate 
league; Speedies and Nads are neck and neck 
in the minor league. Standings are listed on 
IM bulletin board. Womens schedules 
are out and posted on the IM bulletin board
also.
Commissioners are as follows: Majors - 
Rock> Cersosimo, phone 578-4613, and Wes 
Seeley, phone 687-0843; Intermediates - Lou 
Oliver, phone 578-4512; Minors - Anthony 
Jones, phone 578-4694; and Womens - 
Rocky Cersosimo, phone 578-4613.
results turned in to commissioner Debbie 
Cohen, phone 578-5943.
Bridge schedules are out and can be 
picked up in the IM office. Boards may also 
be checked out with commissioner Eric 
Theis, phone 682-9580. All matches will be 
played in the Theta Xi house.
In handball, the Faculty Bull Dogs 
remain undefeated under the leadership of 
team captain Tom McNulty and Mr. A1 
Branick.
Team wrestling practice sessions are held 
in Thistle Hall every Monday, Wednesday, 
and Friday from 4:00 to 5:00 p.m. All 
wrestlers must attend these practice sessions 
to wrestle in the tournament. Commission
ers are Jeff Luce, phone 683-1699, and Wil
liam Gens, phone 578-4452.
Water basketball games began yesterday. 
Games are at 8:30 p.m. and 9:15 p.m. The 
home team must provide a certified life 
guard to be on duty during the entire game. 
Both teams must put away all equipment 
used during the game. The commissioner is 
Gary Petrosky, phone 578-4005.
Table tennis singles and doubles sche
dules are out and can be picked up in the IM 
office. The first round will be played this 
week. The commissioner is Glen Rosenthal, 
phone 683-3864 or 682-9166.
Team call pool schedules will be out this 
week. Die commissioner is Dave Hecht, 
phone 687-7764.
An intramural foosball league is being
oiganized on campus. Foosball is a table 
soccer game played by two teams consisting 
of two players each. The object is to score a 
goal on the opposing goalie. For people 
who want to see a game being played, there 
is a table outside the Tartan Grill which is 
frequently used. No experience is necessary 
because the league will be divided into cate
gories based on experience. Sign up sheets 
will be put up at Skibo for team doubles. For 
any additional information call Tony Muzi, 
phone 422-0358.
Intramural Night will be March 1$. Tro
phies will be given for winners in all sports. 
The next IM board meeting will be Thurs
day, March 5, at 12:30 p.m. in Room 104 
Gym.
Kool & The Gang51Rosalita04GSIA Sureshots00
WLThe Kids53Clump & Co.01
70Knicks43BIG 8WLF.A.B.01
72ZBT22Speedies60MAJORS
50GSIA Hoop Dietics23M&Ms41MARAVICHWL
44PIKA-B14PH.D.33Chillers... Juco60
32Cones & Co.14Math Dept.22Dream Team53
34Machine05Lambda Sigma Delta12Long Shots42
24SAE-B06BIO Hazards13Delta Tau Delta43
24KE Bruisers14Tulsa33
14SOUTHwLEta Kappa Nu03Wild Bunch34
15Fightin Irish50PIKA-A35
05Civil Hammers51PAK-8WLKAPPA SIG-A25
Theta Xi41Skid Row41Buster Cherry II06wLW -42PIKA-C42
70Smart Guys34Frenalums31BIRDWL
51SUPA Men23Bearded Clams31Lucifer70
41Wild Bunch25Delta Upsilon22Nite Train Express61
32Day Care Center13TX Old Farts24Losers III52
33PKT-B14Rastamen03Phi Kappa Theta42
33Devine NWE06Scrubs04Smooth As Silk32
24MINORSWOMENSIcemen33
25ACCWLMAJORSWLJetsons3515Nads60Stamp Krew10SAE-A27
07Eagles41MJPs10ATO08
INTERMEDIATES
EAST 
Tar Hells
Johnson & Johnson
Mothership
Grabiznadz
Magnum M
Hawks
Banditos
IGs Idiots
Cumberjacks
%Th
Camp Woodlawn
NORTH
D-Force
Schippers Shookers
Buckateers
Off
Knights
Turning Machine 
K.S.
Sinofonians 
The Cage 
Raiders
WEST 
SUPA Stars 
Zoo
Mixed Bag 
W L Renegades
6 0 First National Bank
6 1 Electric Eels
Tartans end with 3-7 record
CMU dunks W&J, falls to Gators
In their most exciting meet of the year, 
Carnegie-Mellons swimmers downed 
Washington and Jefferson, 62-49, on Feb
ruary 14. This is the fifth consecutive year 
CMU has beaten W&J.
%
Leading the Tartans were: Jim Matysek, 
with individual victories in the 200 yard 
breaststroke and 500 yard fieestylesetting 
a new pool record;Randy Condon, gather
ing his victories in the 200 yard individual 
medley and 200 yard backstroke; and Mike 
Kochanowski, winning the 100 yard frees
tyle. These three swimmers combined with 
Jeff Duncan to win the 400 yard medley 
relay. Other swimmers that turned in good
performances were Jay Robnett and Nick 
Watts.
Despite these wins, the meet still came 
down to the final 400 yard freestyle relay. 
The relay composed of Watts, Robnett, 
Kochanowski, and Tom Barr won the meet 
as Kochanowski came from behind and 
touched out the W&J anchorman. Coach 
Donna Pecman said it was, the most satisf
ying meet of the year.
Last Saturday the tables turned for the 
Tartans and Allegheny slaughtered CMU 
by a score erf 72-36. The swimmers wound 
up their regular season meet with the 
Allegheny game, and their record stands at 
3-7.
University of Pittsburgh 
Office of Faculty Development 
Announces
A Free Seminar for Administrators, Faculty and Staff
Theme: Professional Burnout and Academic Career Changes
Panelists: Anthony Barton, Duquesne University
David Henderson, The Buhl Foundation 
Ralph Markus, Psychological Consultants to 
Industry
When: Friday, February 27, 1981 at 2:00 P.M.
VVhere: University of Pittsburgh Main CampusForbes Quadrangle, 2M56Reception follows the seminarFor further information call 624-6592
BIOMEDICAL 
ENGINEERING 
SYMPOSIUM
JACK D. McDONALD, CHAIRMAN 
MONDAY, MARCH 2, 1981 
WHERRETT ROOM, SKIBO 
9:00 A.M.
GRADUATE STUDENTS OF CARNEGEMELLON UNIVERSITY AND AFFILIATES OF 
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH MEDICAL 
SCHOOL WILL PRESENT TALKS ON THEIR 
RESEARCH.
THE PUBLIC IS INVITED.
DR. PIETRO M. GULLINO, CHIEF, 
LABORATORY OF PHYSIOLOGY, 
NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE WILL 
DISCUSS THE PATHOPHYSIOLOGY OF 
TUMORS AT 9:15 A.M.
Call extension 2521 if there are any questions.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26The TartanFebruary 24, 1981
The Tartan talks to three of the CIT Senators
continued from page 21 
letter, and order is rigidly enforced at each 
meeting. Each of these examples is helpful 
in allowing senators to voice their opinions 
and helps the organization to run smoothly,
b) specifically affected a segment of the 
campus community?
The Senate has done a number of things 
which have specifically affected segments of 
the campus community. After considerable 
deliberatioon, a compromise was reached 
with the Graduate Student Organization as 
to how the graduate student activities fees 
should be distributed. The Academic Affairs 
committee has requested that the 
Educational Development Plan, oudining 
the departmental goals and all the
educational opportunities therein. Also, 
quite recently, the Senate has instituted an 
Academic Response Program which will act 
as a direct connection to Senate for students 
with departmental or specific academic 
complaints. It will also help to allow more 
student input into departmental decisions. 
Actions such as these are designed to try to 
get more students involved with Senate.
2. With what other student organization(s) 
does Senate work most closely, and in what 
capacity?
Senate is an autonomous organization 
and, therefore, does not work closely with 
any particular organization. Senate is, 
however, a liaison between the students and 
the administration.
We work with all Senate recognized 
organizations to help each achieve their 
goals. Being a recognized organization 
allows each group to seek financial 
assistance from Senate and to utilize 
university facilities.
Some organizations have returned to 
Senate with a demonstrated need for more 
funding than their original allocations. 
Through my work on the Finance 
Committee, I have particiated in the 
decisions of whether or not to allocate these 
additional funds.
An example of an organization recieving 
additional funding is Activities Board
Technical. They presented to Finance 
request for money to purchase a new sound 
amplifier for Room 2210, Doherty Hal] 
They also convinced a every member of the 
committee that it was unreasonable to 
continue repairing the original model. This 
new amplifier will be used for all AB 
movies, all SDC movies and every class held 
in Room 2210.
The Senate acts as a monitor of student 
organizations in an attempt to help each 
achieve their goals. With more students 
becoming interested, the effectiveness of 
Senate increases, but without full support 
Senate can never truly operate to everyones 
best interest.
... Educational opportunities.
NCRs commitment to your continued development is demonstrated by our innovative in-house advanced degree programs in Engineering, Computer Science and Business Administration. In short, you will find the technologies, the resources, and the top management commitment needed for unlimited career growth.
For specific information on career opportunities, see our brochure.
NCR
Complete Computer Systems
An Equal Opportunity Employer
We will be on campus
Thursday, March 5
Contact your placement office to arrange a meeting, or send a letter and resume to: 
Mark Bauer, College Relations,Engineering & Manufacturing,NCR Corporation, 950 Danby Road,Ithaca, NY 14850.
COMPUTER SCIENCE AND EE GRADUATES:
Today in ITHACA NCR mean^^H
... A rapid learning pace
and wide-open career options. If you welcome involvement in advanced software modules... architecture for microprocessor based systems ... development of VLSI microprocessors at hardware and firmware levels ... and being part of all significant advances in printers, high resolution CRTs, and intelligent com puter terminalsNCR/Ithaca is the ideal place for you.
... Leadership in printers 
and terminals
We have had a major role in giving NCR the widest range of terminals in the industry. Accelerating demand for the low cost printers, peripherals, and successive generations of general purpose terminals that we develop and produce means exceptional growth prospects for the hardware and software professionals who join us.
... An exciting location
We are situated on Lake Cayuga in the heart of the incomparably beautiful Finger Lakes region. The area offers outstanding water sports, skiing, golf, cycling, hiking and camping. Four state parks, Grand Prix auto racing, and world famous wineries are close by. Ithacahome of Cornell University and Ithaca Collegeis the cultural hub of the area. You will find theater productions, concerts, museums, restaurants, nightlife ... and countless other offerings that are most uncommon in a nonmetropolitan community.

---------------------------------------------------

Events.
.b.________
ebruary 27 
riday Films
oal Miners Daughter starring Sissy Spacek 
nd Tommie Lee Jones. Singer Lorretta Lynn 
movingly portrayed by Sissy Spacek. She 
aS a poor "Coal Miners Daughter who 
arried at 13, had four children by 20, and 
gan a rewarding, yet harrowing career that 
ept her on a relentless highway. The movie 
nd Sissy Spacek have been nominated for 
cademy Awards.
arch 6
riday Films
he Kids are Alright starring Roger Dal trey, 
jngo Starr and Steve Martin. The Who, in a 
uperbly edited documentary that reveals a 
hanging youth culture acutely perceived and 
rcefully reflected by the Whos music.
o film Sunday, March 1 
arch 8
unday Afternoon at the Movies
lec Guiness Double Feature: The
dykillers is a sophisticated lampoon of the 
aditional gangster films of the 1930s, 
tarring Guiness as the leader of the most 
mprobable gang of crooks imaginable. It is a 
elightful concoction of humour, suspense 
nd satire and ranks as one of the alltime 
reats of British Film Comedy. And The 
vender Hill Mob, in which Guiness plays a 
rim, innocuous bank clerk with a hidden 
teak of noconformity and carries out the 
niversal larcenous dream of robbing a mint, 
udrey Hepburn makes an early cameo 
ppearance.
ilm_______
DC Film Series.
'o film Saturday, February 28 
arch 7
oodbye Columbus, starring Richard 
njamin and Ali MacGraw. Based on Philip 
oths best-selling novel.
megie Institute Film Series
ebruary 24 
orge Kuchar Series 
hree short films by the Institutes featured 
irector. Symphony for a Sinner, Blips and
orever and Always. 8 p.m. in the Museum of
rt Theatre. $2.
February 26
Tuseum Collection Films
ive films classics form th e 1960s. 82 minutes 
otal. 8:30 in the Museum of Art Theatre. Free.
ebruary 28 -
ilms from 19th Century English Literature
-reat Expectations directed by David Lean in 
946.1:30 p.m. in the Museum of Art Theatre.
2.
ittsburgh Playhouse Film
epertory
ebruary 24
orma Rae starring Oscar Winner Sally 
ield, Ron Liebman and Beau Bridges. The
song It Goes like it Goes also won an 
Academy Award. 7:30 and 9:30.
February 25
The Gospel According to St. Matthew
(Italian). 7:30 and 9:50.
February 26
Silent Movie directed by Mel Brooks. Starring 
Brooks, Marty Feldman, Dom DeLuise and 
Bernadette Peters. 7:30 and 9:30.
February 27
Dimne Madness starring Bette Midler in her 
stage act. 7:30, 9:30 and 11:30.
February 28
Harold and Maude, starring Ruth Gordon, 
Bud Cort and Vivian Pickels. 7:30, 9:30 and 
11:30.
art
Forbes Street Gallery
Margaret Morrison St. at Forbes Avenue. 
Openings are Tuesday nights from 7 to 9 p.m. 
Other Gallery Hours are Wednesday through 
Sunday, 12:30 to 5 p.m. and Wednesday and 
Thursday nights, 7 to 9 p.m.
February 24 through March 1- Lisa Keats, 
Jenny McChesney and Tom Weinkle. 
Graphic and industrial design.
March 3 through 8 -John Bender, Laurie 
Hartwick and Jill Scipione.
Ellis Gallery
In the College of Fine Arts. Monday through 
Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.
February 23 through 27- Freshman Design 
Class
March 2 through 6- Stuart Suna
Hewlett Gallery
In the College of Fine Arts opposite the box 
office. Gallery hours are 10 AM to 4 PM, Monday 
through Saturday, .and during Kresge Theatre 
performances.
March 2 through 21- Drama Department 
Senior Design Show
Carnegie Museum
Through March 15- 71st Annual Associated 
Artists of Pittsburgh. Galleries 12, A,B,C.
Through April 5- Diane Samuels, sculpture. 
Entrance Gallery.
A Philip Pelusi Haircut 
for $6.00!!
Register for hair cutting classes. 
Call 261-6550 or stop by our 
salon in 
Squirrel Hill, The Bank Center
theater
February 26 through March 21 
Wings
Soho Repertory Theatre presents the 
Pittsburgh Premiere of Arthur Kopits play. 
The strange, terrifying, shattered world of a 
woman who has suffered a stroke. At Soho 
Theater, 3300 Fifth Avenue at Craft. 
Thursday through Sunday evenings. Student 
tickets are available. 682-0438 for tickets and 
information.
March 4 through April 12 
Tangles
The World Premiere of a new play by Robert 
Litz. "A contemporary comedy about the 
romantic collisions of five friends. At the 
Pittsburgh Public Theatre on the North Side. 
For information, call 323-1900.
February 14 through March 8 
Under Milk Wood
Metro presents Dylan Thomass only stage work 
at the Lion Walk Performing Arts Center. Fea
tured in the cast are CMU alumni Michael Cook 
and Susan Chapek. The hilarious and tender 
account of a small Welsh town in the spring. 
Thursday, Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m. and 
Sunday at 2 p.m. Reservations may be made by 
calling 683-3993
International Poetry Forum
February 25
Samuel Hazo and Joe Negri
The forum presents An American Made in 
Paris, a poetry-jazz suite with Samuel Hazo and 
Joe Negri. Dr. Samuel Hazo is the founder and 
director of the International Poetry' Forum and 
Negri is a popular local musician and enter
tainer. Featuring the Joe Negri Quartet. $2.50 for 
students IPF is located in the Webster Hall Hotel 
at Fifth and Dithridge. Performance is at Carne
gie Institute.
March 7 
Alex Haley
The author of Roots will read from his latest 
work, Search, the sequel to the international 
best-seller. A question and answer session will 
follow the reading. Tickets range from $12 to 
$4 and are available at the IPF office.
February 27 and 28 
Murry Louis Dance Company 
The nationally known company will perform 
at the Pittsburgh Playhouse on Craft Ave. 
Tickets are now on sale at the PDC offices in 
Heinz Hall. Special student discounts. For 
information call 355-0330. Tickets are also 
available at the Playhouse, or by calling 621- 
4445.
LONDON SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS
A chance to study and live in London
A wide range of subjects and courses is available in Central London for 
students of the social sciences
Junior year..........Postgraduate Diplomas
One-year Master s degrees Research
Subjects include Accounting and Finance, Actuarial Science, Anthropology, 
Business Studies, Econometrics, Economics, Economic History, Geography, 
Government, Industrial Relations, International History, International Relations, 
Law. Management Science, Operational Research, Philosophy, Politics, Social 
Administration, Social Work, Sociology. Social Psychology and Statistical and 
Mathematical Sciences
Application blanks from:
Admissions Secretary, LS E , Houghton Street. London WC2A 2AE, England 
Please state whether junior year or postgraduate
Computer Science 
and Electrical Engineering 
Majors
San Francisco Bay Area company developing state of 
the art computer software and hardware for integrated 
voice and data office communications systems seeks 
talented individuals interested in:
SOFTWARE
 Operating Systems 
> Real Time Distributed Computing 
 Data Communications 
 Office Automation Applications 
 Office of the Future Applications 
 Diagnostics 
 Software Tools
ROLM Corporation, founded in 1969 has grown 
50% -100% each year and currently has 
3700 employees. ROLMs Telecommunications 
Division is the leading independent supplier of 
computer controlled voice and data business 
communications systems.
Included in ROLMs outstanding benefits 
package is a three month paid sabbatical after six 
years (and every seven years thereafter), company 
paid tuition and time off for graduate study at 
Stanford University. Employees can take advan
tage of flexible working hours to use ROLMs 
million dollar recreational facility which includes 
tennis courts, racquetball courts, basketball, 
exercise room, volleyball, swimming pools, par 
course, sauna, steam room and jacuzzi.
On Campus Interviews
Wednesday 
March 11, 1981 
Meet with working software engineers from 
ROLM in the placement center. See our com* 
pany literature in the placement center.
If unable to attend anGibson Anderson 
Manager. Recruiting & Training 
interview, send resume to: RECU Corporation
4900 Old Ironsides Drive M/S 560 
Santa Clara, CA 95050
CORPORATION

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
official
Applications (or Special Interest Housing in 
Margaret Morrison Apartment Complex are now 
available in Housing Office. Special interest 
groups who are interested in incorporating their 
hobbies, academics or lifestyles into a commun
ity living situation are urged to apply. These 
houses are designed for eight students with four 
bedrooms, two full bathrooms, kitchen and liv
ing room. Examples of groups who have applied 
for or lived in such housing are Hillel, music, 
electrical engineers, computer, Fine Arts and 
Track Club. You do not have to be a recognized 
student organization to apply. Any group of 
eight students who presently live on campus will 
be considered, but the quality of your groups 
aims and goals detailed in your application prop
osal will determine if your group will be chosen. 
Applications are due in the Housing Office by 
5:00 PM Friday, March 6, 1981.
President Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 and 5 p.m., in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Tuesday, February 24. 
Students who wish to meet with the president 
should telephone his office, 578-2200, to set up an 
appointment.
The Student Senate meets in the Wherret Room 
at 6:30 p.m. every Tuesday night.
The Students Dormitory Council meets Wednes
day night at 7 oclock in the Wherrett Room in 
Skibo. Everyone is encouraged to attend and 
participate.
classified
Will buy used book. Electric Furnaces by 
AIME (American Institute of Mechanical 
Engineers. Leave message for Teresa at 941 - 
_3150 or 421-0994.
Must Sublet fully furnished bedroom in Beau
tiful Shadyside Apartment. Available imme
diately. Fully equipped kitchen. Female pre
ferred. Leave message for J. Thaler at x2392.
Silver Coins Wanted- will pay highest prices. 
Also will buy/trade B.B. cards/comics. After 6 
p.m. call 521-2749.
Typing experienced, freelance secretary, will
type at home, resumes, thesis, correspondence, 
.tables, etc. own IBM Selectric II. 521-7888.
Like something hot and spicy in your room? 
Give us a call. Youll be amazed with what an 
extra quarter can do...More Pizza Delivers 9-12 
PM 578-2134.
Wanted: Lacrosse Players for Pittsburgh 
Lacrosse Club. For info contact Grant (683-0372) 
Organizational Meeting, February 26 at 7:30 PM, 
Frankie Cistines (Oakland).
Shell, to be friends is so much more rewarding. 
CY.
Italian, Spanish, German and English Tutoring
by degreed native teachers. For additional info 
call 661-1211.
Moving and light haulingCampus based and 
reasonable. Evenings 687-3062.
Want it done right? Typing, editing, profession
ally prepared by a Ph.D graduate. Reports, 
manuscripts, theses, dissertations. Prompt, effi
cient, reasonable. IBM executive. Susan, 963- 
7558. Call after 4 p.m.
CASH: WANTED: 10,000 Late Model Wrecks 
and Junkers, Used Cars, Trucks.
club
The CMU Explorer Clubs winter activities
include ski packing, winter camping, ice climb
ing, day trip and more. A brief meeting is held 
every Thursday at 6:30 in room 11, Skibo. People 
of all levels erf experience are welcome. Funded 
by Student Senate.
The CMU Student Branch of the IEEE is spon
soring a presentation on Career Choices. The 
sp>eaker is Dr, William Doyle of Motorola Corp. 
The presentation will be given on Tuesday, Feb
ruary 24 at 4:30 PM in Scaife 125.
Philosophy Club Film A Conversation with 
B.F. Skinner Following the film, professor 
David Carrier will discuss B.F. Skinners views 
on behavioral control, human freedom and 
dignity. All students and faculty are welcome. 
Refreshments will be served. The event will take 
place Thursday, March 5 at 8:00 PM in the 
Masters auditorium in the GSIA building. (See 
posters) Funded by Student Senate.
Investing and the work of the stockbroker will be 
discussed by Mr. Mark Campbell, a stockbroker 
from Parker Hunter, on Wednesday, February 25 
at 5:00 PM in Skibo Room 11. The presentation 
will follow the weekly AIESEC meeting at 4:30. 
Everyone is welcome to attend both.
Spring Camival-There will be a mandatory 
meeting of the Spring Carnival exec committee 
tomorrow, February 25 at 5 PM in room 33, 
Skibo.
The Volleyball Club is practicing every Mon
day, Wednesday and Thursday from 9 to 11 
p.m. in Thistle Hall in the Gym. Anyone 
interested in playing is urged to attend or call 
Mike Matthews at 687-5095.
Camegie-Mellons Public Sp>eaking Club will be 
meeting Mondays at 6 PM in room 12, Skibo. All 
interested students are urged to attend. For infor
mation, call x4410, eves; x3842, days.
general
Lamb Christian Fellowship Foundation Series 
will meet on Wednesday, February 25 at 7:30 PM 
in the CMU Hunt Library Multipurpose Room. 
This weeks topic; Meditating on Gods Word. 
All faculty, staff, and students are invited.
Anyone interested in working for the Campus 
Camptaignfor Israel and World Jewry, please 
come to the worker orientation session. 5 to 7 PM 
in the U.J.F. Building, 234 Mckee Place Tonight, 
February 24 and March 3. Please be our guest for 
dinner for both nights.
Bnai Brith Hillel on Campus
February 27-Orthodox Sp>ecial Shabbat ser\1(f 
and dinner. Guest of honorJudge 
(sc holar in residence), Rogai, rm. 2nd floor, ofC 
315 S. Bellefield Ave. Make meal reservations; 
advance. 621-8875 5:30 PM.
March 2-Joan Kerr Dance Company 
sponsored by CMU Bnai Brith Hille]v 
Exploring Holocaust through Dance, Skibo 
Ballroom. Free and open to all.
Connections series, sponsored by the Camp^ 
Program Planning presents The Wheel fn 
Fortune, 11:30 AM, followed by a 
discussionand at 1:30 PM.
Senior Clarinet Recital-Tuesday, February 24 at 
8 PM in the Alumni Concert Hall in the Fine 
Arts Building. Linda Mazur. Works from the 
Classical, Jazz and Contemporary Eras 
Reception following.
scholarship
Alpha Phi Omega is accepting applications for
the Kent D. Schaeffer Memorial Scholarship, 
There are $200 scholarships awarded on the basis 
of Leadership, Friendship and Service, the thm 
governing principles of A Phi O. Applications 
are available at the Skibo Information Desk and 
are due March 12, 1981. Return to A Phi O, Box 
100, Campus Mail.
The European Studies Committee announces a 
prize of $250 for the best essay in the area ol 
on any aspect of Europ>ean society and culturearchitecture, business, history, literature, foreign 
affairs and so on.
Essays should be submitted by April 1, to Peter N, 
Steams (History). Essays of any length not 
exceeding 50 typ>escript pages can be considered 
Europjean studies written by a CMU student in 
academic year 1980-81. Essays will be considered
The isti Thistle is finished! They will 
be distributed n<* later than May i, 
isti.
If you want to share in the isti 
"everyday" experience, order your 
Thistle Monday thru Thursday in Skibo 
gray matter between ii a.m. and l 
p.m.
Price $10.00
