Academy snubs Spielberg...............................................see pullout
Steelers President Rooney................................................see pg. 23o
c?
The Tartan
Volume 80, Number 16Carnegie-Mellon UniversityFebruary 11, 1986
Hart: America is standing tall but still
By LISA KAGEL
Tartan Staffuriler
Although the 1988 Presidential election still 
remains two years into the future, the 
Democratic Senator Gary Hart of Colorado ap
pears to have begun his campaign already. This 
past Friday Hart paid a publicized visit to the 
Carnegie Mellon campus to discuss the future 
of Americas economy and Americas families. 
Hart's workers said that this appearance should 
be regarded as purely apolitical and mention 
of the 1988 election was not made by Hart 
throughout his speech.
CMUs School of Urban and Public Affairs 
Graduate Student Council sponsored Harts visit 
with graduate student Mark Click helping ar
range the event.
Harts supporters surrounded the Skibo 
ballroom, ushering in students and faculty from 
CMU, University of Pittsburgh, and Duquesne 
campus, Pittsburgh citizens, and members of 
the press. Brian Berry, Dean of SUPA, began 
the symposium by discussing SUPA and in
troducing Glick. Following his own intorduction, 
Glick went on to welcome Hart to the podium, 
classifying Hart as representative of committ
ment, compassion, and courage.
Gary Hart peaks at Carnegie Mellon
Standing to face the standing-room-only 
crowd, Hart commenced his 25 minute speech 
by praising Carnegie Mellon for its outstanding 
research and development. The Kansas born 
senator went on to mention his son who cur
rently studies engineering ..at another univer
sity. In his initial few minutes. Hart also wish
ed the students and faculty his condolences on 
the death of alumni Judy Resnick. He com
mended her pioneering spirit which signal
ed the beginning of the body of his talk.
Hart discussed the change b^ sees in the 
American dream. He said students take the 
dream as a reality with hopes of having a job 
upon graduation and working toward a house 
and family. He said, however, that the chang
ing economy has caused that dream to become 
more and more out of reach for todays youth.
All immigrants. Hart said, came to America 
with the same hope, a dream for their 
children s success, and he said this message 
filled his home as a youth in his Ottowa home.. 
Hart said that now. even the middle class which 
has always ...been Americas bedrock must 
face the downfall of America's changing 
economy, citing the increase in two income 
homes.
According to Hart ...the good jobs are 
gone. The most abundant jobs exist in service 
which offer lower wages and less advancement, 
and this job shortage affects the whole coun
try, he said. When the current students' parents 
graduated. Hart said, their incomes doubled 
over a period of ten years after college whereas 
in the last decade incomes stagnated. He quoted 
figures stating that since 1973, average income 
has dropped by 14 percent and that he sees 
only downward mobility with one million more
couples having no savings.
Hart said the biggest transformation has oc
curred in the number of single-parent families 
with the 10 percent number in 1970 rising to 
20 percent in 1986. Today, white families have 
a one in four chance of living below the pover
ty level while ...for minorities this number is 
even higher." he said. The hardest hit group 
appears to be America's youth. In 1970. one 
out of seven children liven in poverty w hile in 
1 986 one in five children live at this level.
"The economic depression is gnawing awav 
at America, especially the youth. America is 
standing tall but still. That's not bad for most. 
America is doing okay but we can do better. 
said Hart.
In order to solve this economic stagnation. 
Hart offered a solution of increasing wealth by 
causing growth. He charged Washington with 
a laissez-faire attitude causing this decline. The 
market should always be the principle engine 
but it cant stand alone. We need a new 
economic approach, direct action to restore 
growth for the next 10. 20. 40 years. said 
Hart.
The Senator called this concept a Growth 
Economy' that necessitates investment in peocontinued on page 2
Damage, missing property is result of wiring
By NATALIE CAPONE ,
and CAROLYN KELLY
Tartan Staffwriters
Inconveniencing complications experienced 
by many Hill dorm residents were the result of 
the University s continued work on its Data and 
Voice Communications project during the 
Christmas break.
I niversity-hired contractors, headed by the 
Telecommunications Department, were respon
sible for wiring the three dormitories Scobell, 
^v eleh, and Henderson for the computer net
work. Telecommunications worked in coopera
tion with the Housing Department.
Residents of the three Hill dorms were 
notified about the plans for wiring installation 
in mid-to-late November. The Housing Depart
ment posted a letter in the dorms explaining the 
project and its effect on the students. Signed 
by Anthony Martin, Director of Housing, the 
letter said, in part: While it certainly will not 
be necessary for students to remove clothing 
and books, it would be wise to plan to take home 
or otherwise secure any other valuable possessions, and went on to mention storage
procedures.
The residents, however, were not prepared 
for the mess that was ayvaiting them when they 
returned after vacation. A thick layer of dust, 
misplaced furniture, damaged belongings, and 
in several cases missing items plagued the three 
dorms. Don Ishac, a Scobell resident, said that 
his entire room was covered with a thick film 
(of dust). My shelf had chunks of dry wall left 
on it. Ishac complained that the clothing in
side his closet was covered with dust, as yvere 
items inside his closed drawers.
Residents were not informed that there would 
be so much dirt and disorder. In his letter to 
the residents, Martin said that relatively little 
construction will take place in any individual 
room. Some residents questioned whether or 
not the contractors made any effort at all to keep 
things clean. Scobell Resident Assistant Andreyv 
Russo, one of the last people to leave Scobell 
for Winter Break, saw the workers in action. I 
didn't really know what to expect, Russo said. 
But when I saw the drilling, I realized howmuch dust there would be. They had a little 
dropcloth to catch the major stuff while drill
ing a hole in the ceiling. There are other things 
they could have done so that the dust wasnt 
everywhere'* he said, suggesting larger drop 
cloths or hanging shower curtains to contain the 
dust.
However, Russo pointed out that Housing 
probably couldn't have anticipated the amount 
of problems that would go with the wiring. 
Shawn Stufft, another Scobell R.A.. placed the 
blame more with the contractor. Both Martin 
of Housing and Bob Cape of the Telecom
munications Department said that the work of 
the contractors was supervised by construction 
supervisors and University superv isors, but that 
they cant account for each worker every- minute 
of the job.
Concerning the mess, Cape said that it is 
University policy to conduct a final walk-through 
and inspect the completed work, but that it was 
not possible to go into every room. Martin said 
that the University took steps to clean up the 
mess that was a result of the wiring by notify
ing students that cleaning crews were available, 
but that no students responded. Several 
residents explained this by saying that they were
not aware of the available help until after they 
had already cleaned up, and that they did not 
want more people going through their rooms.
In addition to the inconvenience of the dust 
and dirt, several students reported that they had 
personal belongings taken from their rooms over 
the break. Missing property was reported to 
Housing, and the University has worked out an 
agreement with the contractors to reimburse the 
residents for stolen goods and damages. Items 
listed as stolen ranged from radios and head
phones to photographs, posters, and a pen/pen
cil set. One resident said that he received a 
telephone bill for calls made on December 28 
and 29, days when only the workmen had ac
cess to the rooms.
Reports of problems had to be filed with Cape 
by January 9, 1986. less than one week after 
the dorms re-opened for the spring semester. 
One interesting point about the stolen items is 
that Campus Security has no record of any pro
blems occurring at the Hill Dorms during vaca
tion. Apparently, both students and housing did 
not report the stolen articles to Security. Cape 
continued on page 2
I
Students protest SEI in front of W arner Hall.
Black Week is celebrated
By LI WAY WAY ADKINS
Special to the Tartan
The closest that racial controversy has come 
to Carnegie Mellon came and left last October 
with Louis Farrakhan. Carnegie Mellon has 
never been a bastion of black activism and this 
was apparent during Black Week, hosted by 
Spirit and observed daily throughout most of 
last week. Activities included a gospel concert, 
films, variety show, jazz band, and poster ex
hibit, culminating in a speech by K. Leroy Irvis. Nearly one hundred people were recruited
for a week of entertainment and exposure. At
tendance was disappointing, so here's what you 
missed:
The gospel concert served up four local 
church choirs and Carnegie Mellon's own 
Voices United." The local vocals were lively 
and their seasoned harmonies rang true to their 
experience. Voices United'' serves both as a 
musical and spiritual outlet for interested 
students.
The variety show featured drama, music, and 
continued on page 2

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanFebruary 11, 1986
Gary Hart speaks at Carnegie Mellon
continued from page 1
pie and the economy. Hart said he wants to see 
a more productive and competitive economy in 
the countrys dealings in and out of the U.S. 
He stated the first step as reducing the national 
debt which ...stifles growth and skyrockets in
terest rates."
Over and over Hart stressed focusing on the 
long-term, naming a freeze on defense spending 
and taxing the oil from the Persian Gulf as ways 
to affect this desired change. Hart wants invest
ment in America, and he wants this investment 
to come first in Americas youth, to produce 
sound minds and bodies.
Government cant do all well but there are 
things they can do." he said. Hart stressed
social programs including infant immunization 
and nutrition plans which save in later social 
spending." Funding for these programs, accor
ding to Hart, exist lower than in 1981.
Educational spending also ranked high among 
Harts priorities. According to him, one out of 
four students never graduate from high school 
and he charged the quality of Americas youth 
as lower than the level for Japanese students. 
Hart wanted to see parents promoting more 
homework and less TV. Government should in
vest in education, helping to create new cur
ricula that stress more machine and com
puter technology and more foreign language, 
said Hart.
All students should have an opportunity to
pursue their education to the limits of their am
bition not their finances, according to Hart. He 
urged partnerships between universities, com
munities and companies as a way of facilitating 
this desire, and commended Carnegie Mellons 
innovative programs in robotics and super 
computers as exemplary of the types of educa
tional programs necessary for the future.
The economic depression is gnawing away at Amercia. Hart
Hart hopes for reform in workers insurance 
rules and welfare to allow for retraining. He saw 
these reforms as encouragement for investment
for future retraining.
Stressing self-reliance, Hart said Americans 
cannot depend solely on the government. He 
said that corporations and schools need to help, 
for example by providing daycare. This help he 
said would provide help while creating jobs.
Hart concluded by stating that America re
quires a government willing to exercise bold 
leadership and agreed with President Reagan 
when he said that It is a confirmed profound 
truth that the future is not free. Hart said that 
today is a new frontier, Maybe the most for
midable of all. In his final statement, he said 
that, We need to restore the faith of American
workers in young people.Activities designed to make CMU less stressful
By KAREN WOODILLA
Tartan Staffwriter
Student Senate's Campus Affairs Committee 
is developing a subcommittee comprised of 
students, faculty' and administrators who will en
courage student participation in activities 
designed to make Carnegie Mellons competitive 
environment less stressful.
The subcommittee will be organized within 
the next two weeks, after a Campus Affairs Com
mittee meets today with Braden L. Walter, Dean 
of Student Affairs, concerning faculty roles in 
the subcommittee. The Campus Affairs Com
mittee will select five students, including the 
Head Resident Assistant of Morewood Gardens 
and the President of the Class Clubs, to join theQuestions
By DAYIl) LEVY
Special to The Tartan
Starting in the next issue of The Tartan a new 
column will appear in the Op-ed section. This 
column will endeavor to answer any questions 
vou have on Carnegie Mellon. Pittsburgh, Eti
quette, Food, Life, the Universe, and any other 
specific generality you wish to ask about. Our 
staff of one will eagerly search out the answer.
Submit your question to The Tartan office or 
by electronic mail to TT99@TF. Please include 
name, year, and major and note that this infor
mation will be printed unless anonymity is 
specifically requested.
subcommittee. Administrative representation 
will include Walters, Associate Dean of Student 
Affairs Lois Cox, and Edward E. Lilley, Assis
tant to the Dean of Student Affairs.
We want to provide more outlets for 
students. It wont make the work any easier, but 
could make dealing with the competitive at
mosphere easier," said Peter Cohen, Chair of 
the Campus Affairs Committee.
Evan McDonnell, a member of the Campus 
Affairs Committee, added, We will not seek 
funds. Instead, we will organize, coordinate, and 
help implement activities through other campus 
organizations. For instance, we may suggest to 
AB Concerts that they organize a certain event 
at a certain time so that there will be coordination between other events that were planning 
and what theyre planning.
Although the subcommittee is not formally 
organized, members of the Campus Affairs 
Committee are already implementing their 
ideas. The group is considering running events 
every Friday afternoon. The first event, a 
snowball fight on the Cut last Friday afternoon, 
was cancelled when the forecast inches did not 
appear. It was a spur of the moment idea, and 
it would have worked and been a lot of fun! 
Senates Public Relations Committee had 
everything ready overnight, said Cohen. Look 
for more spontaneous activities soon.
The group is discussing the feasibility of stu
dent upperclassmen advisors, especially for
students in MCS and CIT. These people would 
have more time to give more personal attention 
and be more available, commented 
McDonnell.
Currently, the Campus Affairs subcommittee 
is working with Scotland Yard to organize more 
faculty and student department mixers, and 
meeting with gym officials to discuss the 
possibility of increased gym hours.
Many students here either work hard all the 
time or party hard all the time. There seems 
to be litde middle ground. New kinds of activits 
can help put things in perspective, said Cohen. 
Students with ideas should talk with a Student 
Senator at the Student Senate office during of
fice hours.
Damage and loss compensation is slow
continued from page 1
explained this by saying that Housing was the 
authority to go to because there were no breakins. It was well understood, we knew who had
access.
While some students have been compensated 
for damages, which were mostly dry-cleaning 
bills, others are still awaiting payment. Patrick 
Woolsey, who had a set of stereo headphones 
and a Swiss Army knife stolen from his room, 
is very upset about the problems he has en
countered while trying to get reimbursed. This 
is an incredible hassle. They did the damage, 
and we have to chase them to get any considera
tion whatsoever. Its ridiculous."
Woolsey received a letter January 29, 1986
from Greg Dobrich, Telecom Analyst, promis
ing reimbursement within one week. When 
Woolsey hadnt received payment by February 
6, 1986, he called Dobrich and found that there 
was a further delay and his check would not 
be sent until February 17, 1986. Woolsey can
not understand why he has to wait another two 
weeks for his money, and is prepared to take 
the issue to small claims court if he has to. Ive 
got to do something," Woolsey said. Dobrich 
could not be reached for an explanation of the 
delay.
The wiring of Scobell, Welch, and Hender
son was the first step in the dormitory wiring 
project. While this phase was completed, many 
complications and inconveniences resulted.
Students such as Woolsey hope that the dif
ficulties that accompanied this part of the pro
ject will prevent future problems as work on the 
computer network continues. Cape reflected on 
the Hill dorm situation: We all learned from 
the experience, and we can benefit from what 
weve learned.
As you have probably noticed, The Tartan has 
a new look about it. We have changed our 
ty peface as well as the order and individual look 
of the sections.
While we are pleased with and proud of the 
change, we welcome any comment or criticisms, 
with respect to the new Tartan. Comments car 
be relayed by phone, mail or computer mail
Speaker K. Leroy Irvis talks during Black Week
continued from page 1
modem dance. The songs were spiritual and the 
monologues spotlighted underprivileged yet 
charismatic characters. Especially compelling 
were Nicole Austin's portrayal of Tomorrow 
Marie. a black woman coming to terms with 
an artists supercilious racial idealism, and Ron 
McClelland's imprisoned boxer licking suicide 
in an imaginary ring.
The Silk Band hit the Skibo ballroom with jazz 
covers of Stevie Wonder, Jeff Lorber, Chaka 
Khan, and a few original numbers. The rhythm 
section caught some sharp grooves and at times 
1 wanted to scrap the electric violinist as he 
made it too fluid, too much like teamwork 
(although one may appreciate that sort of thing 
after experiencing Ornette Coleman).
A modest poster exhibit of notable black in
dividuals managed to capture a few random 
souls passing through Skibo. I found out that 
the author of The Three Musketeers, Alexander 
Dumas, was black, and that Mary McLeod 
Bethune was sought as an advisor on black af
fairs under presidents Coolidge, Hoover, and 
Roosevelt. Unfortunately, most of the honored 
have long been dead. I was hoping for some 
profiles of modem black achievement, ones that 
would hit the home ground of Carnegie Mellon's 
black student body, ones that would 
characterize the reality of the black professional. 
In Pepsicolas poster series. John Henry is the
steel drivin man...everything a man should 
be, big, strong, hardworking and noble. But 
what about educated, intellectual, creative, or 
computer literate?
You dont have to tell me that Carnegie 
Mellon is apolitical, but when twenty people 
show up hear one of Pennsylvania's veteran civil 
rights activists voice his concerns, something is
There is only one culture,mlone race in the world. ___________________Irvis
wrong. K. Leroy Irvis is Speaker of the Penn
sylvania House of Representatives and has been 
reelected to the House 13 times since 1958. 
There is only one culture, one race in the 
world. he claimed. Recommending Richard 
Leakeys Origins, he quoted that the vile 
distinction of color alone may see the end of 
the world. Much of his speech was fueled by 
his pessimism of future global race relations. 
Imagine a war between blacks and 
whites...think of the Japanese concentration 
camps and Hitler...black children would not 
survive. How ironic, he proposed, if the 
natural origins of race prove to be humankind's 
end as well. As one student pointed out after
ward, he is an orator, and one does not expect 
orators, whether they be the Reverend King or 
Jesse Jackson, to say anything new. Mr. Irvis
had to contend with the accusations of Anthony 
Baldwin about his posture on the University of 
Pittsburghs Board of Trustees and was urged 
to promote the cause of divestment in South 
Africa.
For many of us, Black Week conjures up 
vague high school memories of a bulletin board 
sparsely covered with frayed posters of promi
nent black individuals, the same ones that were 
hung up the year before. Lets see...there was 
Frederick Douglas, Harriet Tubman, Jackie 
Robinson, and someone who invented 
something in the 18th century. The names and 
faces clung to the far corners of our memory
but remained abstractions in a broader 
historical perspective. Each year the display 
reassured us that there was at least one black 
individual in all the important areas of human 
endeavor who beat the odds. Our history books 
huttled us from crown to crown and American 
black history fell into the abyss of inconse
quence.
As far as black American history goes, I m 
in the dark, who isnt that came through the 
American school system? Black history is 
American history, and theres far more to it than 
the dozen or so names that pop up every 
February. Black Week may be the only chance 
many of us have to digest tid-bits of historical 
and cultural supplement. Carnegie Mellons 
Black Week was a fair reflection of a two per
cent black student population wrestling, like 
everyone else, with a strenuous Carnegie Mellon 
curriculum. Perhaps if it had been spread out 
over two weeks people would have noticed. If 
it did anything for me, it was to enlighten me 
of campus talent. It also made me aware that 
there is black consciousness alive at Carnegie 
Mellon and a desire, however faint, to share 
some of it with the Carnegie Mellon community.
You can still catch Memory 86." an exhibit 
of local black photography in the Velar Gallery, 
GSIA building, throughout February. Also up
coming are two films, Black Orpheus" on Feb. 
13 and Lady Sings the Blues" on Feb. 20.

---------------------------------------------------

United Campus ministry
of Pittsburgh
presents
DMN?
oc?Hart: a<K3iIi
8:00 p.m.
Hlumni Concert Hall
College of Fine Arts 
Carnegie-Mellon University
in a program entitled
A Modern Dance Ensemble
'Religion, Technology and the Arts 
Instruments of Heaning
SaSottOosfa ffltQoGEQSf
8:00 p.m. 
Bededum Hall
University of Pittsburgh 3700 O'Hara Street
in a program devoted to 
Values in Education"
through the support of the 
Pitcairn Crab be Foundation
in cooperation vith the 
University of Pittsburgh Chaplains'Association
Benjamin lender Foundation for the Furtherance of Jewish Education
Telephone: 521-3718
JEWISH STUDENTS
5608 PHILLIPS AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15217
PRESIDENT
JACK H OLENDER
DIRECTOR
RABBI MEIR GOLDWASSER
BOARD OF ADVISORS
STANLEY GREENFIELD. Esq 
Professor of Law Duquesne University
DR HERSHEL MARKOVITZ 
Professor of Mechanics and Polymer 
Sciences. Carnegie Mellon University
DR JEROME ROSENBERG 
Dean, Faculty of Arts and Sciences. 
University of Pittsburgh
We Invite You To Participate
TWO CLASSES
through the support of 
Pittsburgh Presbytery
 Think Jewish: This course will 
give participants an intensive basis in 
the fundamentals of Jewish Philosophy. 
Topics will include: Does Judaism leave 
room for personal creativity? Does G-d 
actually concern himself with what's 
happening with us? What is the 
mystique of the Jewish soul?
This c/ass will be held Monday evenings from 
6:30-7:15.
 Torah Eternal: This course will 
deal with the relevance of the Torah to 
today's modern society. Focus will be 
on each current weekly Torah portion 
read in the synagogue.
This class will be held Wednesday evenings from 
6:45-7:30.
Classes are free of charge and will be held on campus.
Everyone interested should please 
contact our office at 521-3718.
i

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanFebruary 11, 1986
Carnegie Mellon joins the fight against Multiple Sclerosis
By CAROLYN KELLY
Tartan Staffwriter
Students from 140 colleges across the nation 
will participate in a competition called RockAlike on March 1, 1986 to help raise money 
for the National Multiple Sclerosis Society.
At Carnegie Mellon University, the lip-sync 
competition will be held in the school gym. and 
the ten organizations that raise the most money 
overall will be allowed to enter the contest.
There has been a rule change as to which con
testant will advance to the regional competition. 
Previously, it was agreed that the contestant 
representing the organization which raised the 
most money overall would represent Carnegie 
Mellon. However, it was recently decided that 
the best band at the competition will advance 
to the regionals. The organization which raises 
the most money will receive an award which is 
yet to be determined.
Students are urged to participate, whether 
they be contestants or spectators. Faramarz 
Shargh, the campus representative for this com
petition, requests that the contestants submit 
their registration forms (available at Skibo In
formation Desk) as soon as possible, as publicity 
photos will be taken this week.
As spectators of the Rock-Alike event, 
students will be charged an entrance fee upon 
admittance to the gym. This fee, however, will 
be changed into votes, and students will be able 
to cast ballots for their favorite performers. 
Votes will cost one dollar each.
The campus winner will represent Carnegie 
Mellon at the regional event and will compete 
against 18 other colleges. The winner of the 
regional competition will record a video for 
Music Television (MTV). Then, over a period 
of seven weeks, MTV will host the Rock-Alike 
Video Fights and viewers will be able to call 
a special 900 telephone number to vote for their 
favorite Rock-Alike impersonator.
The winner of the MTV competition will 
receive an internship with MTV, and the univer
sity that raises the most money for the National 
Multiple Sclerosis Society will be the site of a 
concert in the fall of 1986 to be broadcast over 
MTV.
This entire program is part of a national stu
dent movement called Students Against Multi
ple Sclerosis. This program was designed to 
increase public awareness of the disease; and 
this is what the competition is all about. Despite 
the excitement raised by sponsors such as MTV 
and Swatch, the real cause behind this project 
is to find a cure for Multiple Sclerosis.
While students may tend to lose sight of this 
cause, here at Carnegie Mellon, it hits home. 
Senior Rich Miller, a resident assistant for Donner Hall and a brother at Alpha Tau Omega 
fraternity, has Multiple Sclerosis. Miller was 
diagnosed as having MS in November of 1984 
and just two w'eeks ago he entered PresbyterianUniversity Hospital after he experienced an 
attack.
Last week, Beverly Noyes, the Director of 
Students Against Multiple Sclerosis and Steve 
Wosahla. the Promotions and Publicity Direc
tor visited Carnegie Mellon. Noyes and Wosahla 
do not normally come to universities, however, 
they visited Carnegie Mellon immediately when
Who is doing what for MS:
 six: is having collection cans at all of their Doherty 
Hall movies.
 Zeldas will be donating 8.10 for every pitcher 
of beer sold during the month of February.
 Aipha Tau Omega fraternity is planning a fun
draiser at Central Catholic High School.
 Theta Xi fraternity is holding a Miracle Mile 
in Station Square on March 8th.
 Panther Hollow Inn is donating 8.05 for every 
pitcher of Purple Hooters sold during the month of 
February.
 Pika. Beta. &e Kappa Sig fraternities are having 
collection cans at their parties.
 Bagel Nosh is donating 8.10 for every customer 
served during the weekend of Feb. 28, March 1 & 2.
 Dave 6e Andys Ice Cream is donating 8.05 for 
every waffle cone sold during the month of February.
 AB will have collection cans at all of their dances.
they received word about Miller who is also the 
co-chairman of the campus Rock-Alike event.
N6yes feels that with the help of college 
students, Multiple Sclerosis is a disease that can 
be conquered. She thinks that students take the 
initiative because they have more energy, time 
and enthusiasm.
Miller said that he had a feeling, almost a 
sixth sense, that something would happen to 
him. He believes that he has Multiple Sclerosis 
for a reason, and now his primary goal is to 
educate people.
Most people do not know what MS is. Miller 
wants to make people aware of the disease and 
help them to understand it.
According to literature provided by the 
Allegheny Chapter of the National Multiple 
Sclerosis Society, MS is a disease which attacks 
the central nervous system. The myelin sheath 
is a fatty substance which surrounds and pro
tects the nerve fibers of the brain and spinal 
cord. When any part of the myelin sheathing 
is destroyed, nerve impulses to the brain are
 Victoria Beverages is donating 81.00 for every 
keg of beer sold to Alpha Tau Omega fraternity.
 Scotland Yard has collection cans set up and will 
be showing MTV tapes every Wednesday night. Also, 
during the MS party, March 13th, alcohol may be 
served.
 Squirrel Hill Cafe is having a Bud promotion 
night on Feb. 19th.
 The Cheese Cellar of Station Square is donating 
8.15 for every pitcher of draft beer sold on March 
8th.
 Primantis is donating 81.00 for every pitcher 
of beer sold during the last week of February.
 Bageland is donating the money from all bagels 
sold at Morewood and the Tartan Grill on Feb. 18th.
 AB and Lambda Sigma Sophomore Honor 
Society collected money at the AB dance last week.
 SDC will be holding the Lonely Hearts Dance 
in Skibo Ballroom this Friday, Feb. 14th.
distorted.
Its called Multiple because many scattered 
areas of the brain and spinal cord are affected. 
Its called Sclerosis because the disease in
volves sclerosed or hardened tissue in the 
damaged areas of the brain and spinal cord.
When Miller was first diagnosed, his doctor 
informed him that it was perfectly normal for 
a patient to go through a period of denial, in 
which he would ask himslef, Why me? From 
that point, Miller was determined that he would 
never ask that quesstion.
Although termed as a progressively 
deteriorating disease, Miller keeps a strong 
positive outlook, he says, I dont think of Multi
ple Sclerosis as an illness or a disease, I think 
of it as an annoyance. He also comments that 
he wants to participate in an education process 
of MS; as a double major in Applied Math and 
Industrial Management, Miller is now giving 
serious consideration to working on a national 
level in the fight against MS.
Miller feels that he is definitely a more 
motivated person now and he will not let MS 
conquer him. One thing, he says, that really 
gives him a good feeling is talking with another 
person with MS and bringing them up and out 
of a depression.
Multiple Sclerosis affects each victim dif
ferently. Symptoms range form blurred vision, 
numbness, and loss of coordination, to 
weakness in bladder and bowel control and total 
paralysis.
MS can strike at any time, most common vic
tims are people between the ages of 20 and 40. 
The cure and causes of Multiple Sclerosis are 
still unknown, but more than two million peo 
pie are afflicted nationwide.
Students can do something to help fight MS 
Throughout this month and next, participation 
in fundraising events and theRock-Alike will 
give people a chance to help victims of MS
Persons wishing to donate money to the 
overall Carnegie Mellon MS fund are invited to 
do so. Checks can be made payable to: 
CMUStudents Against MS 
Attention: Mouse 
1065 Morewood Ave.
Pittsburgh, PA 15213New educational program to fight fragmentation of student body
By KAREN WOODILLA
Tartan Stqffuriter
Members of Student Senates Academic Af
fairs Committee, Faculty Senates Educational 
Affairs Council, and the Office of Academic Af
fairs are investigating the feasibility of a neweducational program, called Federated Learn
ing Communities.
Federated Learning Communities (FLC) was 
created to fragmentation of the student body at 
the State Univeristy of New York at Stony 
Brook. It is a one-year program based on a uni
fying theme. Previous themes include America 
in Transition, Human Nature, Technological 
Values and Social Issues, and Issues in Inter
national Understanding. Forty students from 
any department can enroll and yield a minor 
in that years theme.
The program is designed to create. . . many 
of the features and advantages of small personal 
communities of students and faculty, said 
James B. McKenna, director of the program at 
Stony Brook. He said that the interaction in the 
program was more similar to experience in 
working life than in the traditional academic life, 
where most study is done in private.
Federated Learning Communities is an in
triguing idea to pursue here (at CMU) because 
it allows students greater flexibility planning re
quirements and electives, said Dr. Andrew 
Achenbaum, Associate Vice President for 
Academic Affairs at CMU. This program can 
strengthen links between CIT, H&SS, and MCS. 
It can also get CFA more into the purpose of 
the core curriculum.
The Federated Learning Communities (FLC)
version currently deployed at Stony Brook con
sists of three regular departmental courses, from 
the humanities, social sciences and physical 
sciences, connected (federated) by a major 
theme. Six faculty teach these courses to FLC 
students and regular students. One course 
selected from the core curriculum is team taught 
by the professors who teach the departmental 
courses.
A three-hour long weekly program seminar 
is the principle integrating feature. Students 
discuss the formal courses, led by the Master 
Learner. A Master Learner is a full tenured pro
fessor from a field not related to the Federated 
Learning Communities theme. He or she takes 
the programs courses and exams with the other 
students, and guides the program seminar but 
does not lecture. Students participate in class 
discussions, make presentations and write about 
their responses in a journal, all of which are 
evaluated by the Master Learner.
A third semester of Independent Study is pro
vided at Stony Brook, and many of the ten other 
universities who offer versions of the program. 
The Federated Learning Communities faculty 
is available to participants during the Indepen
dent Study period.
Student participation in the Stony Brook 
Federated Learning Communities were en
thusiastic about the program, according to an 
August 18, 1985 New York Times article 
describing student responses.
I feel that I have learned a lot when it comes 
to group interaction and the needs that are re
quired for a successful program. a student 
wrote.
Never in my previous three years of school,  
commented another student, have I ever had 
as much all-around learning experience as I 
haye gained so far in FLC.
I loved it, said Professor Lee Miller, who 
was involved as last years program Master 
Learner at Stony Brook. I got to know students 
in an informal way. I can talk to them across 
25 or 30 years.
McKenna and six CMU students discussed 
the Federated Learning Communities program 
during an Office of Academic Affairs-sponsored 
lunch on January 10 in Pittsburgh. Student 
Senates Academic Affairs Committee selected 
student senators representing all colleges to at
tend: Nadine Flynn (CFA), Brett Whysel 
(H&SS), Ed Tecot (CIT), Joe Grass (CIT), Terry 
Turton (MCS), and Cindy Taylor (MCS), the 
Chair of the Academic Affairs Committee.
Whysel, a member of the Academic Affairs 
Committee, described the program as a way 
to break down barriers between colleges. The
Federated Learning Communities can lead to 
a student and faculty family-type atmosphere. 
The Academic Affairs Committee wants to 
hear any student and faculty opinions about 
Federated Learning Communities. Drop by the 
Student Senate Office, or come to the Tuesday 
evening meetings, said Taylor. We are tak
ing this issue very seriously. If the students and 
faculty want some version of the program we 
could do it for the 1986-1987 year.
If the students want the program, I would 
ask that the faculty listen to that message, said 
Achenbaum. Currently, the curriculum is 
undergoing a lot of reform. There are lots of 
things in ferment. Federated Learning Com 
munities could join faculty and students through 
a unifying theme. Teaching the Nuclear Age 
course has been a ballI have learned more 
from the students than I thought I would, which 
is exciting for any faculty member. Federated 
Learning Communities could provide a similar 
atmosphere.

---------------------------------------------------

February 11, 1986The TartanPage 5
Sheri ODell of NOW raises hell about pro-choice
By AMANDA COHEN
Tartan Staffwriter
According to the poster over the entrance of 
Doherty Hall, Sheri ODell came to Raise Hell 
on Saturday. ODell is the Vice President of 
NOW (National Organization for Women) and 
she came to Carnegie Mellon to speak on the 
upcoming March for Womens Lives in 
Washington, D.C., and to discuss exactly what 
the marchers would be defending. She spoke 
before a small but attentative audience in DH 
2210.
Sheri ODell began by explaining the need 
for a march supporting legalized abortion. She 
likened recent burning and bombings of abor
tion clinics and planned parenthood organiza
tions to acts of terrorism on the part of certain 
pro-life activists. At the Washington March for 
Life on Jan. 22, President Reagan voiced his 
support to the anti-abortion activists, but did not 
mention stopping the violence and harassment 
of women through bombing. ODell then 
discussed the governments position, and At
torney General Ed Meeses actions against 
legalized abortion. He advocates certain tests 
to insure that all federal judges are against abor
tion, according to ODell. The Cabinet is also 
pro-life, while the Corporate Community agrees 
with Sheri ODell and NOW.
Current restrictions of abortion include 
denials of federal funds, namely Medicaid, for 
the purpose of abortions, while only 14 states 
will allow any State aid for abortions. Also, many 
states rule that minors must either have paren
tal consent or have their parents notified of the 
action. ODell says that these restrictions are 
steps towards the governments goal of ultimate
ly rolling back the clock and denying all of 
womens rights, and eventually repealing 20 
years worth of civil and social progress.
Certain right-giving acts from those 20 
developmental years have been gutted in the 
last two years, according to NOW. By gutted
they mean that the acts and amendments have 
been undermined by re-interpretation and nar
rowing the aims of the acts. ODell used the 
educational amendment, Title IX, to illustrate. 
Title IX rules that no educational institution 
receiving federal funds can practice sex 
discrimination. It seems that some institutions 
have found their own ways of interpreting Title 
IX such that it is in effect being ignored. ODell 
warned firmly that government deterioration of 
acts like these will have definite effects on our 
civil rights if not stopped.
To restore these constitutional rights, NOW 
and many other people and organizations are 
supporting the Civil Rights Restoration Act. It 
will reaffirm past acts and amendments and restipulate certain civil rights that have been 
neglected. ODell simply says, It has to pass, 
says ODell. One of the major hold-ups now is 
the abortion rider that goes with the Restora
tion Act. The brainchild of the National Con
ference of Catholic Bishops, it would bolster the 
Roe vs. Wade act which legalized abortion in 
1973. The abortion debate is only the tip of 
the iceberg of the controversies, but it is the 
most visible.
In describing the need for the Civil Rights 
Restoration Act, ODell recalled our society of 
not too long ago. In her home of Charleston, 
West Virginia, she saw the American apar
theid.... American segregation and signs saying 
White Only. She said that the people who 
advocated our apartheid then are now wear
ing pinstripes and using more powerful weapons 
that firehoses and police dogs. They now use 
law. These are basically the same people, ODell 
says, who not only want to make abortion illegal, 
but also make all forms of birth control 
unavailable.
Although there is some support form the 
Catholic Church, namely from a group called 
the Catholic Organization for Civil Rights, the 
Catholic Church as a whole is against birth con
trol and abortion, as are most fundamentalist
Jewish Hotline To Go On The Air
A new half-hour radio program will begin on 
Sunday morning 11:30 on WRCT 88.3 FM
This program will feature interviews with leading 
Israeli government officials, Jewish music, and a 
segment on Jewish studies.
Hosting the show will be Rabbi Meir Goldwasser, 
director of the Benjamin lender Foundation for 
the Furtherance of Jewish Education, sponsor of
this program.
religions. ODell says that this is because the 
majority of Catholics are pro-choice, and the 
Church is trying to change their minds. A 
Catholic college banned NOW president Ellie 
Smeal, an Italian Catholic, from speaking on 
their campus, calling her blasphemous. ODell 
mentioned that the same college didnt ban G. 
Gordon Liddy, a felon, from speaking on the 
campus, but was quick to ban a blasphemous 
speaker. Students at the school have now 
declared Feb. 25th to be Eleanor Smeal Free 
Speech Day, and Smeal will speak to those 
students that day...off-campus of course. You 
want to fill a house? Ban someone, said ODell.
O'Dell voiced anger at pro-life people who will 
harm in the name of life, in particular those who 
bomb clinics and otherwise infringe upon rights 
of the poor and desperate women who need 
these clinics. She illustrated desperation with 
the figures of 7000 deaths and 300,000 maimings of women in one year by cheap and often 
illegal abortions. Some cases involve pregnan
cy by rape and possible threats to the womans 
life if she is forced to have the child. Some of 
these women, she said, are pushed to these lifethreatening risks for monetary reasons; they can 
afford neither to get a proper abortion nor to 
keep the child. Abortion is an economic 
issue, ODell said.
Resolution lies within the Civil Rights Restora
tion Act, which is supported by the majority of 
Americans, according to surveys. Pro-choice 
supporters do not plan to sacrifice this right of 
women, while the government seems to view the 
abortion rider as a condition that should be sur
rendered for the passing of the Act.
There is a CMU campus-based organization 
of pro-choice activists called Students for 
Choice. S.F.C. and Pittsburgh NOW are 
organizing bus rides to Washington D.C. and 
back for area supporters who may wish to par
ticipate in the March for Womens lives on 
March 9th (International Womens Day.) To 
sign up for the trip with S.F.C., sign up at their 
desk in Skibo Hall on Monday, Wednesday, and 
Friday, and in Baker Hall on Tuesday and 
Thursday. ODell, having taken part in many 
such marches and counter-marches, also 
reminded that marches are fun. Any student 
who cares to defend his or her rights is invited 
along.
Housing prices up
By DRUE MILLER
Tartan Staffwriter
Students in university-owned off-campus 
housing may be in for a surprise concerning the 
86/87 school year. All apartments for four oc
cupants are slated for a status change to triples 
(the twelve quad apartments are all located on 
Clyde St.) This is in accordance with a local zon
ing ordinance which does not allow for more 
than three unrelated residents in a single living 
unit.
Also proposed is a 10% rate increase for 
Clyde Street. Tony Martin, director of Housing, 
believes that the university originally underpric
ed the units.
The only off-campus housing that escaped the 
increases are the Shiriey Apts, and Hampshire 
Hall; both are to remain at their current rate 
to keep them attractive to students. The rest of 
the off-campus apartments, and all on-campus 
housing, are scheduled for a proposed average 
increase of 4.2%.
, Stanley H. Kaplan
The SmartMOVE!
n6ip DuiKi mcarc
Association for Retarded Citizens
GMT  LSAT  GRE 
MCAT  DAT 
CALL 
661-2772
I
Kfl-H.NEDUCATIONALCENTER
In New Ybrit State Stanley H Kaplan Educational Center LUi 
Corner Center, Negley Ave. at Baum Blvd., Pgh., Pa. 15206
FIRST TRINITY LUTHERAN CHURCH 
(Missouri Synod)
531 North Nevil Street, Oakland 
(within walking distance of campus)
ADULT BIBLE CLASS: 9:45 AM 
WORSHIP SERVICE: 11:00 AM 
SUNDAY EVENING FELLOWSHIP: 7:30 
PM at parsonage, 535 N. Neville
Pastor Robert Hader 683-4440
SPRINGBREAK
LUV the Sun?
7 nights / 8 days 
in Ft. Lauderdale, Daytona 
or the Islands
Am aA :
(800) 542-8003 TOLL FRKH
Leading Edge
Model D
 IBM Cwptdli
 2-31 IK Drifts
 IS Mtatli Warranty
 Maoacfcraaa MaaHar w/finpfciti
 15SK Ran llpfradaaMa ta I49K
 Laadmg Elf a Ward Praaaaaar
t I ADINC I DC I*51395
AddS150for64QKUpgndi 
Add S350 for Color Systea
A\ Parkway Center Malle:isndrg Pittsburgh, PA 15220
lbuB yLISKGSIEhSIIV/ Mon.-Fri. 10-9; Sat. 10-6

---------------------------------------------------

Pa^e 6The TartanFebruary 11, 1986
Haitis 66Baby Doc Duvalier flees to France
By GAVIN WILLIAMS
Tartan Staffwriter
After days of speculation on whether or not 
Haiti's President Jean-Claude (Baby Doc) 
Duvalier. 34. would remain in Haiti, he and his 
family fled to France, early Friday morning. 
Over the last few days there were indications 
Duvalier was going to leave. Unrest during the 
past two wreeks made it clear to Duvalier that 
his position was unsafe, and he requested 
political asylum in Switzerland, Greece and 
Spain, but was rejected. Typically, Duvaliers 
government claimed the reports that he was 
seeking asylum were completely ridiculous 
and not true.
Duvalier and 23 other people, including his 
wife, mother and children were taken out of 
Haiti by a U.S. Air Force C-141 Starlifter, 
which was requested by Baby Doc. France, who 
is only giving Duvalier temporary asylum, stated 
it did so in order to allow a transition to 
democracy by Haiti. At present, a militarycivilian council headed by army Chief of Staff 
Gen. Henri Namphry has taken charge. Other 
council members are Colonels Wilham Rigala, 
Max Vales and Prosper Abril, and two civilians, 
Gerard Gourgue and Alix Cineas. The final 
destination of Duvalier is unknow n. Gabon and 
Monocco are considered possibilities, but 
sources in both nations denied thev would give 
him refuge.
Several months of demonstrations by the ma
jority of the Haitian people against Duvalier pro
mpted him to impose a 30-day state of siege 
on Friday, January' 31st. The state of siege of
ficially removed civil liberties that were sup
posedly quaranteed by the Constitution, 
although in practice they have been ignored.
Duvalier claimed the demonstrating Haitians 
were being literally manipulated by the 
wrong people," although he did not clarify who 
the wrong people were. Communists have been 
blamed for unrest in the past, but U.S. officials 
see no Communist involvement. The real 
motivation seems to have been Duvalier himself, 
as indicated by his people singing, JeanClaude, he's a thief, we're pushing him out.
Hours after the declaration of a state of siege 
by Baby Doc, White House spokesman Larry 
Speakes prematurely announced that Duvaliers 
government had been overthrown and that Baby 
Doc had fled. The statement proved to be an 
embarrassment for the Reagan administration, 
for it is unusual for the White House to an
nounce the fall of a foreign government, 
especially an ally. The State Department took 
the blame, stating that rumors circulated last 
week saying Duvalier was leaving had motivated 
the report.
Despite two months of unrest throughout 
Haiti, the state of siege was imposed after an 
intense week of demonstrations and unrest that 
began last Sunday, the 26th, in the northern 
town of Cap Haiten. During Mass, in the old 
Cathedral of Cap Haiten, worshipers started
chanting Abas [down with] Duvalier! and 
soon began a short demonstration on the steps 
of the church. Troops quickly broke up the 
crowd.
The following day. Baby Docs vicious secret 
police unit, the Tontons Macoutes (Creole for 
bogeymen) came to the scene of another 
demonstration in Cap Haiten and killed three 
people. On Wednesday, the 29th, the 
warehouse of CARE (a U.S.-based relief group) 
was stormed by slum dwellers looking for food 
and three people were trampled to death. 
Demonstrators also called on the military to 
stage a coup detat against Baby Doc and there 
were appeals for a general strike.
By Thursday, the 30th, unrest had spread 
across the country. Violent demonstrations con
tinued even after the declaration of a state of 
siege. On Tuesday, the 4th, Baby Doc placed 
more power to control the unrest into the hands 
of the Tontons, who he had previously restrain
ed. They patrolled the capital, with the power 
of detention and a willingness to resort to 
violence. Many of the approximately 50 peo
ple (none of them Americans) killed over the 
weekend were shot by Tontons.
Last weeks unrest stems from the past 
months of nonviolent protest which were in
itiated by the Nov. 28 killing of three students 
during antigovernment protests in Gonaives. 
Demonstrations continued throughout the coun
try, and in January two Tontons were charged 
with the murders.
Attempts by Baby Doc's government to in
timidate the Roman Catholic Church, a center 
of protest, also motivated the unrest. Pope John 
Paul II, during his 1983 visit to Haiti, criticiz
ed the Duvalier government, and last July, a
7 8-year old priest was beaten to death by thugs 
and three other priests were expelled. However, 
the reasons for the present unrest in Haiti go 
back farther than two months, back to the 
Presidency of Papa Doc Duvalier.
Dr. Francois Duvaliers first government job 
was as a public-health doctor battling yaws - a 
disease which afflicted 80% of Haitis peasants. 
For this, he was seen as almost a savior. In 
1957, he took over as President with the back
ing of the military who organized the election. 
Almost immediately, Papa Doc took dictatorial 
control of the country , imposing a reign of ter
ror. A firm believer in the Haitian folk religion 
of voodoo. Duvalier affected the characteristics 
of someone close to a voodoo spirit and claim
ed to have supernatural powers. Many Haitians 
saw him as an embodiment of Baron Samedi,
BAHAMA H ISLANDS
ATLANTIC OCEAN
CARtSBCAN SEADomingo
Geography
The Republic of Haiti occupies the western onethird of the island of Hispaniola, in the Caribbean 
Sea. The Dominican Republic occupies the other twothirds of the island, Puerto Rico is on its eastern coast 
and Cuba is 50 miles to its west. Haiti, with an area 
of 10.714 sq. miles, (the size of Maryland), is situated 
in the Tropics but is mostly semiarid because the 
eastern mountains block moist trade winds. Only 
30% of the land is arable, most of this land being 
on the warm, humid and highly overpopulated coasts. 
People
With about 6 million people, Haiti is one of the 
most densely populated countries in the world 
(535.75 people per sq. mile). About 80% of these 
people live in rural areas and survive through sub
sistence farming. Almost 95% of all Haitians are of 
African descent, with the rest being of mixed AfricanCaucasian origin (mulattoes). The mulattoes see 
themselves as elite and this has caused division bet
ween blacks and mulattoes throughout Haiti's history .
Economy
Haiti is the poorest nation in the Western 
hemisphere, with 77% of the population earning less 
than SI50 per year. About 80% of the population 
is employed by agriculture, Haitis main source of 
income. Coffee is the major crop and principal ex
port, bringing income to 1.5 million Haitians and pro
viding one-third of the nations exports. Other ex
ported goods are sugar, essential oils and bauxite, 
although mineral resources are generally small.
History
In 1957, Dr. Francois (Papa Doc) Duvalier was 
elected President after a year of turmoil. Papa Doc 
governed Haiti with brutality and fear (forming a 
secret police force, the Tontons Macoutes), and in 
1964 declared himself President- for-Life. Duvalier 
died in 1971, but his dictatorship did not, for he 
passed the Presidency on to his chubby, 19-year old 
son Jean-Claude (Baby Doc) Duvalier, who proved 
to be more benevolent, but just as corrupt, as his 
father.
a voodoo spirit of death.
Under Papa Doc, U.S. aid to Haiti was cut 
and the economy went into a slump. In 1964, 
Duvalier declared himself President-for-Life, 
holding on to power by playing one opposing 
faction off the other and by keeping a large 
security force. On April 21, 1971, Papa Doc 
died at 64, handing over the presidency to his 
son Jean-Claude Duvalier. Despite the feelings 
of the experts that a power struggle would en
sue, Baby Doc stepped into power without 
violence occurring.
To the peasants of Haiti, this changeover 
meant virtually nothing. In the beginning of his 
Presidency, Baby Doc kept the nation stable 
and even initiated a few cautious reforms. He 
disarmed and so restricted his fathers dread
ed Tontons Macoutes. Foreign capital, mostly 
U.S., was gradually attracted back to Haiti and 
small industries were developed, which creating 
jobs for some of Haitis many unemployed.
However, by the mid-70's, Baby Doc had 
developed an interest in wealth, similar to the 
interest his father had for power. He began an 
economic revolution, which kept the peasants 
as the victims, just as his father had victimized 
them with his desire for power. Duvaliers 
opulent life-style was financed with U.S. funds 
intended for the Haitian people. In 1980, 
Duvalier spent $3 million on his marriage to 
Michele Bennet, who was highly influential 
within his government. Michele contributed 
greatly to the excessive spending of the 
Duvaliers, with shopping trips to Europe and 
a mink coat collection, useful in tropical Haiti. 
On November 28, 1980 Baby Doc extended 
his repression into the political arena by ar
resting more than 100 journalists, activists and 
opposition party leaders. This undid the years 
of democratization of Haiti that had gone on 
throughout the 1970s.
More recently, the legislative elections held 
on February 12, 1984 were blatantly 
fraudulent, as was the July 22 referendum last 
year, which reaffirmed Baby Docs Presidencyfor-Life. These farcical political maneuvers on
ly added to the brewing discontent among the 
people of Haiti.
Relations between the U.S. and Haiti have 
been strained over the past few weeks. The State 
Department announced last week that aid given 
to Haiti would be cut, because of human rights 
abuses. The U.S. will hold back $26 million in 
direct aid, out of a total of $51 million. This 
is a substantial reduction from the $54 million 
given in aid last year. On February 3rd, 
Secretary of State George P. Shultz announced 
that the U.S. would like a government in Haiti 
that is put there by democratic process. 
Although U.S. officials stated they do not see 
communist involvement in Haiti, they must be 
concerned with Haitis proximity to Cuba and 
the presence of an illegal Haitian Communist 
Party which could end democracy in Haiti for 
good.
Little Haiti99 is languishing in Miami
By GAVIN WILLIAMS
Tartan Staffwriter
Well known for a large Cuban refugee popula
tion and the development of a Little Havana, 
over the past ten years, Miami has been flood
ed with Haitian refugees. The number of Hai
tians in Miami is not accurately known, but it 
probably now exceeds 100,000 (out of
500,000 nationwide).
This throng of refugees has set up their own 
community called Little Haiti, in the northeast 
of Miami. Little Haiti is an impoverished, grimy 
area where the refugees live in crowded apart
ment blocks. Many of them are unemployed, 
destitute,unskilled and only speak their native 
language. Creole. Those with jobs usually work 
as unskilled laborers, sugarcane cutters or 
deliverymen. Their squalid condition resembles 
the one they ran from in Haiti, except that they
now have a small chance of success.
The largest number of Haitians began enter
ing Florida in 1978. The Bahamas, where an 
estimated 40,000 Haitian emigrants were stay
ing, ordered the Haitians to leave because of 
the strain they were putting on their already high 
(25%) unemployment rate. This crackdown 
forced the refugees to come to the U.S., for if 
they returned to Haiti, they were generally im
prisoned for insulting the Duvalier family bv 
leaving.
Before November 1977, Haitian refugees 
were sent to detention camps in Florida and 
Texas, until they posted bond and appeared 
before immigration judges for hearings. 
However, in November. President Carter with 
his emphasis on human rights, started releas
ing the Haitians and gave them temporary work 
permits. This opened up Florida for the refugees
from the Bahamas.
In 1980, the new Reagan administration 
became tougher on illegal immigration and so 
caused a sharp drop in the number of refugees 
coming from Haiti. Reagan felt that Haitians 
were only fleeing destitution, not prosecution 
and thus did not qualify for political asylum. 
Because of the crackdown, a few thousand Hai
tians languished in prisons while various civil 
libertarian groups argued for the immigrants 
freedom.
The reasons for the Haitians fleeing their 
homeland and setting up communities such as 
Little Haiti are both political and economic. 
Although political repression was not as bad 
with Baby Doc Duvalier as it was w ith his father, 
the government was still corrupt and incompe
tent.
Duvalier did little to solve Haiti's many pro
blems, including the stripping of forests, little 
arable farmland, poor health services and a low 
annual per capita income. His government had 
no presence in rural areas, and made almost 
no attempts at economic reforms. The rate of 
joblessness and underemployment is well over 
50% and most working conditions are poor, 
considering the salaries given. A quote by an 
economist in Port-au-Prince helps to clarify why 
Haitians want to come to the U.S. A Haitian 
working as a dishwasher in Miami earns more 
in an hour than he could in a day back home. 
The Haitians presence in Miami has brought 
complaints from many Miami residents, because 
of their effect on the economy. Some people felt 
the Haitians would be a drain on government 
assistance. However, because they are illegal 
aliens, they do not qualify for welfare. Resentcontinued on page 7

---------------------------------------------------

February 11, 1986The TartanPage 7
Learning the ropes in the Stock Market
by ERIC N. WITT 
JAMES MEACHAM
Special to The Tartan
Index options are risky investments that rise 
or fall with the market. An option is merely the 
right to buy or sell 100 shares of a stock at a 
given price on or before the third Friday of a 
given month.
A right to buy is called a Call option, while 
a right to sell is called is Put option. The price 
at which the stock may be bought or sold is call
ed the Strike Price, and the last day on which 
the option can be exercised is called the Ex
piration Date.
The person who writes an option receives a 
sum of cash, callechcTPremium, from the pur
chaser in return for accepting the risk of poten
tially being forced to buy or sell 100 shares of 
stock per option at the strike price. The option 
itself can be bought or sold on an options 
exchange.
A call has intrinsic value if its strike price is 
below the market value of the underlying stock.
In this case, the holder of the call can exercise 
the option, buying the stock at the strike price, 
and sell it at the current market price. Likewise, 
a put has intrinsic value if the strike price is 
above the market price.
Standard and Poors 100 index options are 
options on a basket of 100 stocks. When such 
an option is exercised, the writer of the option 
merely pays the intrinsic value of the option to 
the holder. No stock changes hands. Thus, if 
the index reaches 198 and a holder of a call 
with a strike price of 195 decides to exercise 
his option, the writer of the option pays him 
$300 ((198-195)xl00 shares).
An example is the Investment Group, which 
bought a put and a call on the S&P 100, both 
with a strike price of 195. This move is called 
a straddle and helps to buffer the risk. After 
they bought the options, paying $137.50 for 
the call and $487.50 for the put, the market 
moved upward. In four days, the Group sold 
the options, pocketing a gain on the call and 
a small loss on the put.
New owners cant bust unions
HARRISBURG, February 3Legislation in
troduced today by state Rep. Ivan Itkin, DAllegheny, would make it an unfair labor prac
tice in Pennsylvania for a successor employer 
to refuse to bargain with the union that 
represents employees of an acquired business.
According to Itkin, The National Labor 
Relations Board and the courts have held that, 
if a successor employer does not employ a ma
jority of the predecessors employees, there is 
no duty to bargain.
This means that a corporation may transfer 
ownership of its business inte/ests through a 
subsidiary paper shuffle, and then fire most of 
the unionized employees for any number of pro
fessed non-discriminatory reasons to relieve 
itself of collective bargaining.
The biU (H.B. 2087) was drafted in response 
to the recent takeover of two nursing homes in 
Allegheny County: Shadyside Manor and 
Negley Hou^e. Ownership of the homes was 
transferred from Health Group Care Centers, 
Inc. to Health Care and Retirement Corp. of 
America, subsidiary corporations in which 
Owens-Illinois, Inc. has a controlling interest.
Two-thirds of the nursing home employees, 
all members of District 1199P, National Union 
of Hospital and Health Care Employees, were 
fired by the new employer, causing the union 
to lose recognition. Nonunion employees were 
hired to fill the vacant positions at a lower wage. 
In other words, said Itkin, we have a con
venient loophole in the enforcement of Federal 
and state labor laws that encourages nonviolent 
forms of union busting which often go 
undetected but which still have the same 
purposeto nullify employee rights.
Union H.B. 2087, and employer would be 
deemed a successor employer and required to 
bargain with the pre-existing union if (1) there 
is substantial continuity of business operations 
conducted prior to the acquisition; (2) the same 
or similar goods or services are offered; (3) the 
business is operated at the same plant or loca
tion; (4) the same or similar jobs exist; and (5) 
the same or similar workforce is employed.
Itkin clarified that the successor employer 
would have to honor the collective bargaining 
agreement of his predecessor until the expira
tion of the agreement or until a new agreement 
could be reached with the union, whichever oc
curs first.
Alternatively, the successor employer could 
seek decertification of the union in accordance 
with present law. Itkin commented that there 
was a need to have similar amendments to 
federal law introduced in Congress.
I fully realize that some businesses must trim 
labor expenses if they are to continue to make 
a profit, Itkin said, but we cannot allow 
employers to sidestep the law and labormanagement contracts by using modern 
methods of union bustin as a quick fix.Haitians in the United States
continued from page 6
ment also came when the Immigration and 
Naturalization Service announced plans for a 
refugee center in a middle class neighborhood 
of Miami. This brought stormy debate from 
homeowners who denounced the Haitians as a 
threat to the community.
A more devastating blow came to the Haitian 
community in July, 1983. The U.S. Public 
Health Service designated Haitians as potential 
carriers of acquired immune deficiency syn
drome (AIDS). Many Haitians were persecuted 
on the streets and at their job places because 
of this designation. As the AIDS scarce has 
escalated, so has the persecution. Leaders of
Little Haiti and other Haitian communities have 
formed coalitions to fight the abuse while Hai
tian medical officials called the U.S. evaluation 
racist and unscientific. However, 5% of all 
AIDS cases found have been Haitians and the 
percentage of cases among Haitians is substan
tially greater than for the rest of the society. 
Hopefully, both the resentment because of 
economic reasons and the AIDS scare will set
tle and Haitians will be accepted just as other 
minority immigrants have been in the past. Lit
tle Haiti could then become more like the 
American town it should be and less like the 
Haiti of Babv Dor Duvalier.
Student Senate Minutes: 
February 4, 1986
Meeting called to order 7:05. 
Present: Appelbaum, Ayre, Bollinger, 
Cohen, Flynn, Giles, Greenberg A, 
Greenberg M, Hynes, Jagerski, Kaplan, 
Kornbrek, Lee A, Lonsky, McDonnell, 
Mukherjee, Murphy, Noesen, Novak, Patnaik, Rocher, Salomon, Taylor, Trampel, 
Welsh, Whysel, DeLeon.
Absent: Sheinfeld, Lee K(excused), Dean 
Walter(excused), Dean Cox(excused), 
Chu(excused).
Audience Participation:none.
President: Three vacant seats were filled. 
There were 15 petitions for the three seats. 
Congratulations to our new Student 
Senators: Ken Bran (CIT), Dana Hausman 
(MCS), Leslie Frank (H&SS).
SDC: There are informal discussions in 
Morewood, Mudge and Donner lounges. 
Topic for Feb 12 - Future of CMU, Feb 19 
- Nuclear Freeze.
Housing is in the process of hiring precollege counselors and RAs.
SDC is having a Valentines Day dance at the 
Ballroom. Everyone invited - donations for 
MS at the door.
IFC: IFC is supporting Kappa Delta Rho to 
occupy the vacant frat house.
Chairman: Senators must obtain permission 
to be excused before the meeting.
Academic Affairs: AA is looking into the 
Federated Learning Program.
Funding 8c Recognition: The following 
organizations have been revoked funded 
recognition and recognized as non-funded: 
SARC, Class Clubs, Greek and Non-Greek 
Committee of IFC.
The Carnegie Care Unit's budget passed of 
$1065.00.
Scotland Yard was granted a 5 year interestfree loan of $4960.00.
Public Relations: A new questionarre will 
be prepared for the question/response board 
to be put in Hunt Library.
Matt suggested having an exchange program 
with Pitts student government.
Ed suggested that we participate in the 
Hands Across America project. It is a na
tionwide event in which people will link 
hands to form a chain across the US. The 
money raised will go to hunger relief in the 
US.
Old Business: The Senate elections will be 
on April 9, 10 from 9am to 8:30 pm. 
Meeting Adjourned 8:50.
Fire alarms ring in Morewood
By DRUE MILLER
Tartan Staffwriter
Residents of Morewood Gardens are being 
rudely awakened with increasing frequency. 
Since January 22, alarms have gone off on six 
separate occasions, often during the late 
night/early morning hours.
Of these times, only two have been actual 
firesone starting in a garbage can in D-tower, 
and another of an as-of-yet undetermined origin 
in A-tower. The remaining alarms are listed in 
securitys records as false, or due to malfunc
tions. CMU Security Chief Robert S. Fadzen 
believes that the majority [of the false alarms] 
aren't intentionally pulled.
He attributed such alarms to other causes: ex
treme moisture in the ground, which sometimes 
shorts the wires and sends in an alarm: people 
working on the underground cables (CMU uses 
Bell Telephone lines to call in alarms), who are 
known for accidentally tripping the alarm wires; 
smoke detectors mistaking smoke-like 
substances (such as chalk dust) in the air for 
smoke; and equipment malfunctions. Also, tests 
of the equipment are held once every month.
Tony Martin, head of CMU Housing, says he 
doesn't believe we have a serious problem w ith 
false alarms." However, security records show 
five alarms (not including monthly drills) since 
the beginning of this semester, compared w ith 
seven total false alarms for all of 1985.
Crime
and Incident Report
Bv DEBBIE YUE
Tartan Staffuriter
Friday, January 24
(1:45 a.m.)A CMU student's car was hit 
by another car on the 5100 block of Margaret 
Morrison Street. No one was hurt.
Sunday, January 26 
(1:26 a.m.)Five white males stole a pizza 
from a local pizza deliverer, who was on his way 
to Morewood Gardens. They were last seen run
ning behind the fraternity houses.
Saturday, February 1
(between 7:45 p.m. and 2:08 p.m.)A
burglary' occurred on the second floor of Hammerschlag House. Jewelry and a jar of coins of 
unknown value were stolen. It is believed that 
the burglars gained entry' through an unlocked 
window. The burglar(s) have not been identified 
at this time.
Sunday, February 2
(7 p.m.)A small fire broke out in a heater 
on the second floor of Hammerschlag House. 
The cause was a heater malfunction. There were 
no damages, except to the inside of the heater, 
and no injuries.
Give a hoot. Dont pollute.
Forest Service, 
U.S.D.A.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Suicide: Setting 
the record straight
There has been talk this semester about suicide, 
tension and pressure on campus. There has been talk 
about cover-ups and lack of attention to or caring 
about these problems by the administration. Issues 
like suicide and stress are important ones, but do 
they warrant the near monomania with which some 
students have attended to them?
Maybe part of this surge of attention comes from 
the perceived lack ,of information about suicides here. 
Weve all heard rumors and heard or read different 
statistics about the number of suicides on campus. 
To set the record hopefully, finally straight: there was 
one suicide in September of 1985 and one in 
February of 1985. These have been the only two 
suicides by Carnegie-Mellon students in at least the 
past four years. That even two suicides should oc
cur is tragic, but it does not represent an epidemic. 
The University has contacted national experts on this 
subject who state that this is well within the numbers 
that can be expected for a community the size of 
Carnegie Mellon.
It is true that we rarely see suicide statistics publish
ed here. And in the event that a suicide does occur, 
we only hear about it by word of mouth. Trusting 
such issues to speculation probably leads to exag
gerated rumors. It also feeds the idea that the Univer
sity is trying to cover up these events. More 
reasonable explanations for the relative quiet surroun
ding suicide are propriety, a desire not romanticize 
death or dwell on the negative. Propriety here does 
not imply prudishly over-looking facts, but instead 
handling the facts with delicacy and good taste. The 
Tartan adheres to the same principles that profes
sional newspapers do. We respect the very private 
and personal nature of a suicide by not covering it.
For similar reasons, the University does not shine 
a spotlight on incidents of suicide. After a suicide, 
the University concentrates its attention on dorm 
floors, academic departments and extra-curricular 
organizations, where the effects of a suicide are most 
deeply felt. The administration realizes that the pain 
caused by a suicide extends throughout the campus. 
However, emphasizing and glorifying suicide is 
dangerous. Others who are depressed and perhaps 
contemplating suicide themselves may observe the 
sensation and be convinced that there is more to 
death than there is to life. With this possibility in 
mind, the University makes an effort not to allow a 
suicide to result in the romanticization of death for 
others.
Blame seems to be another factor under-lying the 
uproar about suicide. While Carnegie Mellon can be 
a high pressure environment, we cannot assume a 
cause-effect relationship between this pressure and 
campus suicide. People who commit suicide have 
deeply-rooted problems which may be traced to any 
number of biological and environmental factors. To 
blame Carnegie Mellon for a suicide amoung its 
students is, like all other instances of scapegoating, 
an over-simplification of reality.
It is time to turn our attention from thoughts of 
suicide and begin thinking about ways to improve 
the campus environment. Concentrating our thoughts 
and efforts on projects like the new student center 
which will be started in the spring of 1987 cannot 
only help to make these plans into reality, but will 
combat some of the very same stress and tension 
which students are concerned about.
Cbuwse\\/\<^ 
Ce^'Vc'r 
MCq-f /03
Our doors are always open.
Letters:
Former editor criticizes
Editor:
I am w riting concerning the gross 
misinformation present in the News 
article in the issue of January 28th. 
entitled Andrew Announced." It is 
obvious from the article that the 
writer knows little or nothing about 
Andrew or the workstations it runs 
on.
The first paragraph states that An
drew was introduced on January 
21st. This is completely wrong. An
drew has been around for 2 years, 
and has been available to a number 
of students and faculty since last 
spring, when the first Sun worksta
tion was installed in the public 
cluster in the UCC. The ITC has also 
sponsored demos from time to time, 
hardly making the project a secret. 
The recent announcement was of the 
IBM RT, the 32 bit workstation 
designed by IBM, and found in the 
Wean 5206 and 5209 clusters.
On page 4. the continuation of the 
article states the The project is 
designed to accommodate almost all 
of the many types and brands of 
computers already in use at CMU." 
This is explicitly wrong. Andrew is 
currently supported on three 
machines: the Sun workstation, the 
DEC MicroVax, and the new IBM 
RT. By far the most common 
machines on campus now are IBM 
PC's and Apple Macintoshes, neither 
of which is will ever run Andrew. 
Other machines which are found on 
campus less frequently, such as Ap
ple II's and TRS-80's, are also com
pletely incapable of running 4.2 
BSD. not even to mention Andrew.
The main topic of the article seem
ed to be Andrew in general, a topic 
w hich has received misguided atten
tion in The Tartan in the past. The 
announcement of the IBM RT is a ma
jor piece of news that is receiving at
tention all around the country, yet 
the article scarcely mentions the 
machine, even though complete in
formation about it was available long
before the paper's effective 
deadlines.
All told, this seems to me to be yet 
another occurrence of The Tartan 
assigning writers to do stories on 
subjects they don't know, and don't 
bother to find out about. After be
ing an editor of The Tartan for a 
year. I know what I'm talking about. 
The current editorial board is com
prised almost completely of people 
with little or no editorial experience, 
and this shows rather blatently in the 
paper. Headlines are bad and sized 
incorrectly, layout is sloppy and 
amateurish, and the paper has a 
general look of incompetence about 
it. No one expects new editors to be
perfect, but when they scorn the help 
and advice of former editors who 
had been with the paper for over two 
years, there is no excuse. The policy 
of the board seems to be change for 
the sake of change, without regard 
to basic skills, like layout and 
typesetting. Change is a vital part of 
any newspaper, but an editor should 
at least be able to size a headline cor
rectly before he restructures the 
whole section. Finally, to change just 
to try to make the previous board 
look bad is a very juvenile and un
professional way to run a newspaper.
Anthony A. Datri 
Former Tartan Entertainment 
Editor
Applied Math/CS 87
Disrespect for women
Editor:
I, as a female at Carnegie Mellon 
University, take great offense at the 
printing of Comics In the News in 
the Feb. 4 issue of The Tartan. This 
comic strip, even though it was 
meant to be funny, seriously insults 
all women of Carnegie Mellon. It 
blatantly suggests that the women of 
the Carnegie Mellon community 
could not possibly have such an 
alluring figure as those pictured in 
the comic strip. It suggests that 
because we are intelligent enough 
to be members of such a highly in
tellectual, male-dominated com
munity, by no means could we also 
be attractive, let alone beautiful! I *
will have the author of this comic
Cartoon offends gays
strip, and men in general know, that 
in order for women to excel in a 
male-dominated society they must 
possess a certain amount of selfconfidence and asertiveness. It is just 
such qualities that assure a large 
percentage of women of this caliber 
ARE beautiful, because of the pride 
they also take in their apperance.
If the women of Carnegie Mellon, 
for any other academically excellent 
community, are ever to receive the 
respect we deserve, insults such as 
this will have to be stopped!
In essence, women of Carnegie 
Mellon deserve an apology from the 
author(s) of this comic, and The Tar
tan staff for printing it.
Cheryl Howard 
Freshman
Editor:
I wish to express my anger and in
dignation at seeing the most recent 
ZURK strip. I am appalled and of
fended by Nabil Liumangs portrayal 
of homosexuals, and the use of fag
got and queer."
As a member of CMU's gay community, I am very conscious of how 
we are portrayed in the media. Too 
many gays in movies and television 
are portrayed as effeminate or ultrabutch, with too little emphasis on the 
majority of homosexuals, who are 
neither. These stereotypes, like all 
continued on page 9

---------------------------------------------------

February 11, 1986The TartanPage 9
Inquiring Minds really dont give a damn
InquirBy The Inquiring Staff
This week, we at Inquiring Minds enter the 
.field of public service, writing a column that 
students at CMU should keep through their 
years here, show to baggers that stay with them, 
and generally revere as a landmark in jour::::::::::::::::: nalistic history. This week Inquiring Minds presents: UDS in 
Review.
::::::::::::::::: Breakfast:
The morning meal leaves little variety to the 
Carnegie Mellon student. In the wee hours of 
the morning only Kiltie Cafe and the infamous 
Tartan Grill are open. Heres the 
ing Guide to Breakfast with UDS.
Toast. One would think that toast would be 
the safest of entrees at either place, but that is 
not necessarily so! Occasionally one is greeted 
at Kiltie with a toast of light golden color and 
crisp texture; however, usually not. Tartan, on 
the other hand, is consistent.
Eggs are a popular choice at both places but 
what most people do not realize is that they are 
exactly the same eggs. Any taste difference you 
find is due entirely to the Tartan eggs having 
more time to coagulate.
Other choices you get at Kiltie include The 
Pork Product of the Day and The Daily 
Starch Surprise. In human terms, the pork 
consists of fatty, scrawny strips of bacon, little 
brown patties of something, or ham... or so
we re told. The starches are a much safer bet. 
The pancakes and waffles usuallv will not disap
point. but we strongly advise avoiding the syrup.
The Inquiring recommendation: Cold cereal. 
Lunch:
The midday meal provides the greatest variety 
with four places open: Kiltie, Tartan, Salads 
Plus, and Morewood Gardens. As the safest 
meal, we heartily recommend lunch, especial
ly as the first meal of the day (we speak from 
experience).
The busiest noontime place is Kiltie - A Nice 
Place to Meet People. At Kiltie you get the 
choice of two or three entrees plus a mini deli. 
Even though the deli is usually staffed by a kind, 
hard of hearing employee, this is where many 
people end up. However, avoid the pickles they 
always push. Theyre a trap.
Morewood - The Best of the Worst - is very 
similar: two or three entrees and a maxi deli. 
The food is usually the same; however, clinical 
tests show that Morewood food always tastes 
better. We can not explain this, but President 
Reagan has announced the formation of a 
special committee to look into this.
We recommend lunch, but the Tartan Grill 
is an exception. Tartan lunch is like a good 
friend; it stays with you forever. The food at Tar
tan all tastes the same, a pretty neat trick con
sidering the menu includes hamburgers, chili, 
chicken, and yogurt.
Letters continued:
Attrition causes concern
Editor:
I want to extend my compliments and thanks 
to The Tartan and Lisa Kagel for drawing our 
attention and concern as a campus to the sub
ject of student attrition/retention (Are more 
students failing out?February 4, 1986 issue 
of The Tartan). I would like to add to, and inso doing, slightly modify the thrust of a few of 
the statements in this article attributed to me 
and some of my colleagues. Ms. Kagel quite 
rightly discusses this issue of attrition on two 
levelsa macro-level, and a micro-level. On the 
macro-level, she notes from her conversations 
with those of us on campus close to this pro
blem that, in general and across the university, 
attrition rates are relatively low, that they are 
comfortable, healthy, and that there is no 
need to worry. While largely true (namely, we 
are not witnessing the mass exodus of students 
from the university, which would indicate a farmore serious attrition problem), it is important 
to state that the subject of attriton viewed from 
the micro-level can be quite uncomfortable, 
hardly healthy, and frequently cause for great 
concern. A student contemplating leaving the 
university may do so for quite sound reasons. 
Feelings and objectives change, and if the 
logical conclusion is that this institution is no 
longer particularly well-suited for those objec
tives, voluntary transfer or leave of absence may 
make sense. But for so many others who 
become part of this attrition population 
particularly students in academic difficulty, and 
students facing financial difficultiesfalling into 
this attrition category can often be avoided. In 
my experience, I am troubled by the large 
percentage of those students who are suspend
ed or dropped from the university for academic 
reasons who have clearly not taken full advan
tage of all resources at their disposal (advisors, 
tutors, instructors, the Counseling and Student 
Development Centers programs in study skills 
as well as their counseling services the Place
ment Offices advice on career planning that 
could have helped them get a better grip on 
their lives and studies while here. In addition, 
I am surprised at how easily other students 
come to the conclusion that CMU is no longer 
financially affordable for them without explor
ing to the fullest extent possible those forms of 
aid that might be available to them. The Finan
cial Aid Office has frequently impressed me 
with the soundness of their advice and the 
thoroughness of their efforts in this regard, go
ing to extraordinary lengths in some cases to
education here.
My additions, therefore, to Ms. Kagels other
wise revealing, informative and provocative ar
ticle are three-fold: first, we as a university are 
pleased that, from a macro-perspective, the in
stitutions retention rate is so high; second, at
trition from the micro-perspective of the student 
facing the possibility of leaving the university 
concerns us greatly, no matter how healthy 
the statistics from the macro-perspective look; 
and third, resources abound that could prevent 
some students (quite a few, I suspect) from in
voluntarily becoming part of our attrition 
statistics.
Joseph E. Devine 
Director, H&SS Academic Advisory Center
Gays offended
continued from page 8
stereotypes, hurt those affected, branding 
them as something they are not. Polish people, 
for example, were stereotyped as being stupid, 
Irish as drunk, computer programmers as 
geeks, and CFA as gay. These stereotypes may 
hold true for a handful of people, but not for 
every Polish person, Irishman, hacker or 
CFAer. The portrayal in ZURK of an obvious
ly effeminate gay propogates a gay stereotype.
Then there is the matter of language. ZURK 
uses faggot, and is corrected to queer. 
Both are incorrect. Only between friends do we 
use these words. With everyone else, it has a 
derogatory meaning, and is used as a term of 
insult. The friendly way to address us is as 
gay, or if you must, homosexual. One 
might think this matter trivial, but consider: 
Replace the gay with a black man, faggot with 
spade, and queer with nigger. Now you 
are insulting black people. The same substitu
tion can be made for any other group.
I dont know why Mr. Liumang felt he had 
to insult gays in his strip, but I think he should 
apologize for the insult in the next Tartan. I also 
feel that the Comics Editor and the Editor-inChief must share the blame for allowing that 
ZURK to see print. I again request a public 
apology and retraction. Just because were gay 
does not mean that we can be insulted with 
impunity.
Thank you for this space, and one last 
thought: all we (the gays and lesbians of the 
world) ask for is understanding and acceptance. 
A gay CMU student who wishes to remain
anonymous
Finally, there is Salads Plus - A Different 
Place. For Different People. Salads Plus is a 
relief because it is always consistent. Then 
again, there isn't much you can change with 
salad (even UDS cant destroy it). It also serves 
the best bread on campus. It is odd though that 
the campus fruits eat at a vegetable place. 
Dinner:
Again for dinner, UDS provides four places 
for your dining pleasure. Dinner is like lunch. 
Often it is lunch (Morewood Lunch = Kiltie 
Dinner and v.v.).
At Kiltie, the most satisfying thing is finding 
a table. With the deli closed, salads and cereal 
often do much better at dinner than the main 
entree. Kiltie is like the high school cafeteria 
you thought you'd left behind. Its cramped, it's 
gloomy, the lines are long, and you leave 
wondering why you came. Why did you come? 
Because, you were too lazy to go anywhere else. 
It's your own damn fault. Don't complain to the 
Inquiring Minds, we won't give a damn. We eat 
at Morewood.
Morewood is sort of the opposite of Kiltie. You 
can usually find a table there. Food is somewhat 
better, but you pay for it. Often you think $4.25 
just isnt enough, but when you think of Kiltie, 
$4.25 seems plenty. Of course, you could 
always wait and order a pizza.
The Inquiring recommendation for dinner (if 
you must eat it): Ice cream bars at Morewood. 
Late Night:
More Pizza is one of the two late night alter
natives. Youve probably noticed we didn't con
sider Tartan for dinner. Would you? But, it's 
back, lurking like the monster in Binkleys closet 
of anxieties. Its 7 PM. You're hungry'. More 
Pizza, you think. More Pizza isn't open! Can 
you make it? If you're used to waiting for Capri, 
probably, otherwise it'll be a tough hour. Let's 
assume youve made it. You dial 6666. You 
dial 6666. You pay your roommate to keep dial
ing 6666. Finally, you get through. You get put 
on hold. (Did you ever notice that they always 
ask you to go on hold? Try saying no sometimes. 
Inquiring Minds really don't give a damn about 
what happens.) When you finally get a person 
on the other end, they ask, What do you 
want? You've forgotten. Think fast! Youve 
probably not thought fast enough. Theyve hung 
up. Start all over again. Did you ever wonder 
why the phone line was so busy even though 
no pizzas sit waiting for people? It's almost 
enough to make you go to Tartan, almost 
enough. More Pizza - Its Nice Pizza, if You Can 
Get It.
The Inquiring Staff is Stew Levine and
Randv Wilson,
Lee addresses Trustees
By Karen Lee
At the Board of Trustees meeting yesterday 
afternoon, I was given five minutes to speak on 
student needs and concerns. The following is 
the text of my speech, which focused on the 
most important and #1 need - the university 
:::::::::::::::::: center.
While working at the Skibo InW&m \ formation Desk, I weighed the 
:::::::::::::::::: various issues that I felt were the 
heaviest on the students minds. I considered 
saying something about the Multiple Sclerosis 
fundraising drive or divestiture issue. But some 
students, who I did not know, came to talk to 
me about the issue that the whole campus was 
interested in  the university center. I realize 
that I focused on this issue at the October 
meeting, but it is such an important issue that 
I need to address it again today.
We have heard a lot about the university 
center being the first priority of the university. 
At the same time we have seen proposals about 
research buildings. These are already being 
built, while the former is still a plan on the shelf. 
When the conference center proposal was an
nounced we were very much against it, only 
because we knew that it would be built before 
we graduated, while the university center would 
still be the first priority plan on a shelf.
The university center should be considered 
first. It will help improve the relationship bet
ween the administration, the faculty, and the 
student body by providing a relaxing setting for 
each group to get to know each other. It would 
also be the place where we would get to meet 
the people we would very much like to meet -- 
the Trustees. More importantly, it would help 
relieve a lot of the stress felt by the students 
and improve their health.
Many students have complained to me that 
the gym is very inadequate. After 5 hours of 
sitting on the same chair studying for a physics 
exam, a student may want to play basketball as 
a study break. He would go to the gym only to 
find the courts occupied by a gym class, varsi
ty practice, or intramurals. Commuter students
Opinion Policy
The Editorial appearing at the beginning of the opinion sec
tion is the official opinion o/'The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Columns are the opinions of individual authors u ho are 
not necessarily on The Tartan Editorial Board or Staff. 
Letters to the Editor are opinions of individual authors 
who are usually members of the University community. A 
letter intended for publication must be signed and include 
the writers address and phone number for verification. .\ames 
will be withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves the right 
to condense or reject any letter.
also need the center. They have nowhere to just 
relax and talk to their friends.
The university began addressing this quality 
of life issue through The Scotland Yard. but it 
is not total answer to student life beyond 
academics. We desparately need a place to 
escape the academic pressures surrounding us. 
We need a place that we can call our own, a 
place where we can engage in exercising, talk
ing, watching TV, or just plain relaxing.
Another positive result of the university center 
would be current alumni support. The univer
sity currently does not receive much of that. 
Many seniors feel that they would give finan
cial support only if they knew that their dona
tions would be used to address quality of life 
issues. Last years senior class gift of the bar 
table to The Scotland Yard bears testimony to 
the fact that the students feel strongly about this. 
Unless the university makes a firm commitment 
to building the university center, the new alumni 
will find it difficult to make a firm commitment 
to the university.
Having spoken to many of you last October,
I know that you want to create the best possi
ble environment for the students. I therefore ask 
that you please fundraise money to be earmark
ed for the university center. If I had only one 
wish as President, I would want the university 
center to be a reality NOW.
Karen Lee is President of Student Government 
and a Senior IM Major.
The Tartan
Editor-in-Chief.....................Lisa D. McAnany
Managing Editor..........................Olve Peersen
Business Manager..............John Friedmann
News Editor.........................................Vijay Reddy
Entertainment Editor..................Bruce Kasrel
Features Editor... .Christy Casamassima
Sports Editor.........................................Jill Dorson
Photography Editor .......................Jack Poller
Art Editor.............................Michael P. McHugh
Dossier Editor.............................Michele Keane
Ad Manager......................................Celeste Clark
Production Manager____Albrecht Powell
Typesetting Manager..............Kathryn Sitter
Contributing Editors; Karen Gray, Mohan 
Embar, Neil Greenblum.
Copyright  1986 by The Tartan. The Editorial Board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication any copy 
it deems unfit for publication.
Office: Skibo 50. (412) 268-2 111.
Mailing address: Box 17, Schenley Park.
Pittsburgh, PA 15213.
Funded by the Activities Fee. All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

Before you make 
long distance commitment, 
mate sure you know 
what youre
If Fletcher Christian and Captain Bligh had known 
what being stuck in the same boat would mean, chances 
are neither would have set foot aboard.
And if youre stuck in the same boat with a long 
distance company that doesnt give you all the services 
you need, its easy to harbor mutinous thoughts.
But when you pick AT&T as your long distance 
company, you know youre in for smooth sailing. Youll 
get trouble-free, reliable service. Immediate long 
distance connectionseven at the busiest hours. And 
long distance operators to assist you with immediate
credit for wrong numbers and collect calling.
And youll get discounts off our Day Rate on your 
state-to-state calls. With savings of over 50% during 
weekends until 5pm Sundays, or nights from 11pm to 
8am, Sunday through Friday. And 40% discounts eve
nings between 5pm and 11pm, Sunday through Friday.
So when youre asked to choose a long distance 
company, sign aboard with AT&T. With AT&T Long 
Distance Service, youll never be left stranded. Just call 
1 800 222-0300 for more information or to 
choose AT&T. Reach out and touch someone.
AT&T
The right choice.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
Comics
Gallery
Classifieds
Events
. . .And the nominees arent
By JOE FERRUGIA
Tartan Theatre/Film Critic
On Wednesday, February 6, the Academy of 
Motion Picture Arts and Sciences announced 
its 58th annual Oscar nominations. While the 
industry reacted with the usual excitement (or 
sour grapes depending on who you talked to) 
there was only astonishment over Steven 
Spielbergs absence from the best-director list 
of nominees.
Spielbergs The Color Purple received a total 
of 11 nominations including best picture, and tied 
Out of Africa as the most nominated film this 
year. Apparently someone in the Academy 
doesnt like Spielberg. Only once before in the 
history of the Oscars has a film received 11 
nominations but none for best director. Critics 
have been taking swipes at the academy since 
the nominations were announced. Gene Shalit 
of NBCs Today Show was quoted in USA To
day as saying Im outraged. The picture gets
11 nominations. . . including two for women who 
hadn't acted before a day in their lives. Where 
did the voters think their performances came 
from? Heaven? Shalit added Theyre going 
to wait till hes 70 years old, then wheel him 
out and give him the Thalberg Award for 
lifetime achievement. Critics ranging from 
Siskel and Ebert to Judith Crist were also 
angered at the academys treatment of 
Spielberg. As far as this critic is concerned, 
Spielberg deserved the nomination far more for 
his work in The Color Purple than John Huston 
did for Prizzi's Honor. But unfortunately for 
Spielberg, the academy doesnt always award 
their nominations to the best performances.
Popularity does play an important role in the 
nomination process as well as in the final voting. 
While this may make for juicy gossip con
cerning the awards, it ultimately serves to de
mean the importance of the awards themselves. 
The academy should try to award the best per
formances of the year, not just those artists ac
cepted in Hollywoods social circle.
Other notable absences from the list of 
nominees were Ron Howard for his direction 
of Cocoon; Kathleen Turner for her lead in PrizzVs Honor, Gene Hackman for his role in Twice 
in a Lifetime; Jane Fonda for her role in Agnes 
of God; Raul Julia for his performance in Kiss 
of the Spider Woman. But thats show biz.
There were some more pleasant surprises in 
the nominations. Hector Babencos directorial 
nomination for Kiss of the Spider Woman, the 
first for a film from a Latin American director; 
James Garners best actor nomination, the first 
in his 30-year career; and Anne Bancrofts 
nomination earned considering her shared bill
ing with Jane Fonda.
And the nominees are. . .
Best PictureKiss of the Spider Woman 
The Color Purple 
Out of Africa 
Prizzi's Honor 
Witness
Best ActorHarrison Ford, Witness
Jack Nicholson, Prizzi's Honor 
James Garner, \lurphe\'s Romance 
William Hurt, Kiss of the Spider Woman 
Jon Voight. Runaway Train
The reactions to the nominations were as 
varied as the films and artists listed. Of course, 
speculation about the outcome of the awards 
began the moment the first nomination was 
read. Some report of the political backing that 
Prizzi's Honor has from its director, John 
Huston. Huston, his daughter Anjelica and her 
boy-friend Jack Nicholson are all considered 
favorites in their categories. James Garner is 
also considered a favorite as he is extremely well 
liked in Hollywood and has never been 
nominated. Meryl Streep, always a strong con
tender for the best actress award, faces strong 
competition from newcomer Whoopi Goldberg. 
But its Geraldine Page that is considered to be 
the favorite in that race. This marks Ms. Pages 
8th nomination without receiving an Oscar. It 
is believed that the academy will give her the 
Oscar as a symbolic lifetime achievement 
award.
The Academy Awards are more than simple 
recognition to the artists. To the studios the 
awards mean big bucks in box office sales. An
Best \ctressWhoopi Goldberg. The Color Purple 
Anne Bancroft, Agnes of God 
Jessica Lange, Sueet Dreams 
Meryl Streep. Out of Africa 
Geraldine Page. The Trip to Bountiful
Supporting ActorDon Ameche. Cocoon
Klaus Maria Brandaur. Out of Africa 
\X illiam Hickey. Prizzi's Honor 
Robert Loggia. Jagged Edge 
Eric Roberts. Runaway Tram
award can mean an addition of millions of 
dollars in box office revenue. In the next few 
weeks the studios will spend thousands of 
dollars to publicize their movies and stars to the 
voting members of the academy. Trade 
newspapers like Variety will have features about 
the artists and the studios will have adver
tisements aimed directly at the voting members 
of the academy. Some of the advertisements are 
placed simply to remind the academy voters of 
those films that were released early last year. 
The academy has been known to remember on
ly those movies released later in the year and 
forget earlier ones.
Even with the surprising additions and the 
blatant omissions, the Academy Awards will still 
prove to be an interesting horse race over 
the next few weeks. The awards will be broad
cast on ABC on March 24.
Supporting ActressMargaret Avery. The Color Purple 
Oprah W infrey , The Qdttr Purple 
Anjelica Huston. Prizzi's Honor 
Amy Madigan. Titice in a lifetime 
Meg Tilly. Agnes of God
DirectorHector Babenco. Kiss of the Spider Woman 
Sydney Pollack, Out of Africa 
John Huston. Prizzi's Honor 
Akira Kurosawa. Ran 
Peter Vi eir, R Uness
Original Song'Sa\ You, Sa> Me" from W hite lights 
Miss Gelie s Blues (Sister1 ' frort; 
The Color Purple
"Po\er oi Love" from Ba. k to the Future 
"Separate Lhes from It lute \ight> 
Surprise, Surprise" from .4 Chom* Line

---------------------------------------------------

Illustration by Karen Kmetz
Page 12The TartanFebruary 11, 1986
PBT performs two world premieres last week
By LISA McANANY
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
With two imaginative and memorable world 
premieres and a modern classic from a legen
dary choreographer all in one performance, 
what more could the Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre 
hope to offer?
On February 6-9, as a part of the spring 
mixed-repretoire series, PBT presented 
Serenade choreographed by George Balan
chine to the music of Tchaikovsky, Tabula 
Rasa choreographed by Ohad Naharin to Ar
vo Part's music and Scene Dansante 
choreographed by Daniel Levans to Alexander 
Glazounovs music.
Tabula Rasa and Scene Dansante are 
both new works commissioned exclusively for 
the Pittsburgh company. Tabula Rasa was 
funded by a grant from the National 
Choreography Project, a program supported by 
the National Endowments for the Arts as well 
as major corporations and designed to patronize 
and encourage new choreographers.
The Ballets performance found its emotional 
highpoint in Naharins Tabula Rasa. The ti
tle is translated from Latin clean slate, a term 
which the Israeli choreographers first en
countered in high school while studying the 
Talmud. The translation of the title seems rele
vant to w hat Naharin hopes to accomplish with 
this work. The choreographer does not attempt 
to embellish his dance with contrived meaning 
or a forced plot, but instead seems wisely con
tent to present the audience with images of 
interas well as intra-personal struggles.
The twenty-seven minute dance consists of 
two very different movements. The first move
ment uses all ten dancers in a series of repeated 
movements and interactions w hich suggest love 
and rejection, conflict and despair. The second 
segment begins with one dancer entering stage
omen
Everyone's talking about 
them and they're talking 
about everyone. Listen in. 
You'll get an earful. You'll 
also laugh a lot at this 
comic attack on the 
uppercrust.
8 p.m.
Feb. 12-15, 19-22 
2 p.m.
Feb. 15 and 22
(Artists' Forum follows Feb. 15 
performance.)
Kresge Theatre 
College of Fine Arts
Student/Senior Citizen 
Rate: $5
Ask about $10 package for The 
Women and Samba, a new 
musical.
Box Office: 268-2407
College of Fine Arts 
Tickets also available 
at Skibo Information Desk
Another Exciting Carnegie 
Mellon Drama Department 
Production
right, who faces the audience and slowly sways 
back and forth from foot to foot and moving 
across the stage to the left. The other dancers 
follow suit until all ten dancers form a fine 
across, slowly swaying in unison. The rest of 
the dance sets smaller groups of two or three 
dancers in opposition to the larger group which 
maintains a nearly imperceptible swaying mo
tion. The dances of the smaller groups are in
tense and deeply moving as the dancers express 
the complexities and perils of love. The lighting 
for this production was unobtrusive in
candescence and the costumes were realistic: 
cotton shirts and baggy pants for the men and 
simple knit dresses for the women, all in muted 
colors. The Russian composer Arvo Parts 
sometimes high pitched, always haunting violin 
and piano music provided the perfect 
background for Naharins intense, but unpresumptuous choreography.
George Balanchines Serenade opened the 
performance. This 38-minute abstract ballet is 
set to Tchaikovskys Serenade in C for String 
Orchestra, Opus 48, which was performed by 
the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, conducted 
by Ottavio de Rosa. The ballet opens with a 
large ensemble, but also features soloists and 
pas de deus. Serenade, created in 1934, was 
the first ballet that Balanchine created in 
America. Choreographed in Balanchines 
distinctive neo-classical style, the ballet has no 
real plot but suggests love and romance, and 
the romantic atmosphere of the ballet is 
heightened by the simple blue backdrop and 
lighting, which suggest moonlight and comple
ment the blue costumes of the dancers as well. 
The companys performance was well-executed 
and well-received by the audience.
The final piece in the performance was the 
evenings second world premiere. Scene Dan
sante, choreographed by Daniel Levans was 
danced to Alexander Glazounovs reworking of
At Forbes
By KATE BONELLO
Special to The Tartan
Linda Grossman, Paulette Hebert, and Mary 
Kaperick will be showing drawings, prints, and 
photographs at the Forbes Gallery through Sun
day, February 16. The exhibit opens tonight at
7 pm.
The most noticeable thing about Linda 
Grossmans work is its energy. In fact, she says 
that she likes to get a lot of energy out with 
her work. I do active things with bright col
ors. One of her silkscreens, It All Starts 
Here, looks as if the paint were dripped, spat
tered, and splashed across the paper. Another, 
Pixels and Line Widths, uses marks of pur
ple, red, yellow and gray which seem to scatter 
as if thrown. The woodcuts she is showing are 
primarily landscapes in black and white, which 
express her reactions to situations in flowing 
lines.
Paulette Heberts drawings, on the other 
hand, are more recognizably representational. 
She says that a lot of people say that drawing 
is a medium you use to get somewhere else. I 
think making a drawing is just as important as 
making a painting. And drawing real things is 
harder to do because if you dont get it right, 
it's just wrong. Her drawings use many figures, 
mostly seated; she is also showing some draw
ings of chairs and three silkscreens.
Mary Kapericks drawings and prints are also 
representational. She is showing several self por
traits, most of which show herself as a child, 
and which include several done on masonite 
with washes of paint. Im trying to understand 
childhood, not go back to it, she says. I like 
children, so of course that comes out in what
I draw." One self portrait, a woodcut, shows 
her as a child with trees transposed across her 
face; other drawings are of antique dolls.
Chopiniana, a collection of piano pieces writ
ten by Frederic Chopin. This ballet in five 
movements provided an upbeat ending for the 
program. The Tarantella, which featured 
PBT prinicpals Maria Teresa del Real and 
Pablo Savoye was definitely the most enjoyable 
movement of Scene Dansante. While the 
music and dancing were both uplifting and welldone, the stage became too cluttered at times, 
as the full company performed movements 
which attended to every detail of the music.
The Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre will be perfor
ming Petrouchka, Raymonda Variations and 
Don Juan February 13-16. Students who buy 
their tickets within an hour of showtime Thurs
day, February 13 will receive a fifty percent dis
count on the ticket price.
Aff or dable 
Floors
By JOSEPH M. OLOUGHLIN
Special to The Tartan
The Affordable Floors will be featuring their 
original music at the AB dance this Friday night 
in the Skibo ballroom. This group was recently 
awarded ^critics choice as the best Pittsburgh 
band by the Pitt News.
The Affordable Floors are one of the few local 
bands that have established a truly distinctive 
sound. Their synthesizer oriented dance music, 
reminiscent of the early work of the Puff Puff 
Cloud, will be featured on a compilation album 
of Pittsburgh bands due for release later this 
month. Walk into the Night, which was in 
heavy rotation on WPTS is the Floors at their 
best and most accessible. Christine Curcio, of 
the Pittsburgh Rock News, described the song 
as showcasing the dreamy, haunting syn
thesizer work that is prevalent in all Floors 
music.
The rhythm section, built on the drumming 
of Ken Zenkevich and the funk bass work of 
Eric Riebling, relies heavily on the extensive 
jazz backgrounds of both musicians. Kirk Botula 
and Harvey Coblin add their synthesizer work 
exhibiting a style they developed working 
together on soundtracks for short subject films. 
British born Stephen Morrison rounds out the 
floors sound with sophisticated guitar lines.
The band released their first single, 
Geneva, on WRCT in 1983. It wasnt until 
last year, however, that they left the studio and 
began to play five shows. Since that time, they 
have performed regularly at Graffitti and the 
Electric Banana. The Floors have added 
another dimension to their live show by install
ing a large movie screen and television monitor 
on the stage. Continuous film loops are shown 
of everything from old movies to close-ups of 
common objects. The visual backdrop adds 
another element of interest to the overall ex
perience of the concert.
Having already won the preliminary round of 
the Tri-State Rock Competition, the Floors are 
currently anticipating the semi-finals. The com
petition will take place in March at Graffitti. 
Their new single, The Sounding, is now gain
ing momentum on the airwaves at WPTS and 
the dance floor of the Upstage Lounge.
The Floors will be teaming up Friday night 
with Son of John, another one of Pittsburgh's 
rising original bands. We have worked 
together before and found that both bands really 
play off each other's strength. We are plann
ing to do more shows together, said Kirk 
Botula. The Floors will be playing from ten un
til eleven, followed by Son of John this Friday 
night in the Skibo ballroom.
Give a hoot. * Dont pollute.

---------------------------------------------------

February 11, 1986The TartanPage 13
CMU Profs Art Exhibited in Oakland
By WALTER G. RITCHIE
Tartan Art Critic
The Carnegie Mel^rn Art Gallery is now ex
hibiting the work of CMUs Fine Arts faculty. 
The showing includes paintings, sculptures, 
photographs, and videos by 22 Art Department 
members, including Akram Midani (Dean of the 
College of Fine Arts) and Orville Winsand (head 
of the Art Department).
In the area of painting, surrealism and 
abstraction set the mood for the show. Susanne 
Slavicks surrealist painting ^The Pulse of 
Rome, The Open Vein (1986) exhibits her 
usual division of the painting into two sections. 
On the left side, she presents an abstraction of 
the map of Rome, and on the right, a single path 
passes over hills and valleys, forming a long con
tinuous vein. The two halves of the painting are 
unified by a wooden gate attached to the can
vas on the right side and the painted shadows 
cast by the gate over the map on the left side.
Other surrealist visions can be seen in the 
work of Mary Weidner, who focuses on rough 
and twiggy forms right out of nature. In Nest 
Egg (1985), a birds nest in the form of a tor
nado grows and swirls out of the center of the 
painting. Similar to this painting in concept is 
The Climb (1985), in which a mammoth pile 
of boulders surrounded by a whirlpool of col
ors climbs straight to the heavens above.
Moving from surrealism to abstraction, John 
Beckley comes into focus. In his painting, Flatbush Fallopian (1985), abstracted angular 
forms in warm and cool colors float in an in
finite neutral space. Amidst these angular forms 
are heavy black lines that accentuate and define 
the various shapes.
In the area of sculpture, Christina de Paul 
dominated the floor with her huge sculpture, 
Bridge of Desires (1986). Long and sinuous 
aluminum jags pierce the space, attempting to 
reach each other and bridge the gap between 
the concave pedestals on which they rest.
Orville Windsand, head of the department, 
contributed his walnut sculptures to the show. 
Pediment One (1986) is a constructed form 
of smooth, polished wood in natural, rounded 
shapes. In Biomerge Ten (1986), the 
smooth, unadultered surface is disrupted by the 
direct exposure of the rough grain of the walnut. 
Both sculptures hark back to the very origins 
of nature with their biomorphic forms and 
organismal shapes.
Charlie Brodsky and Akram Midani lead the 
way in photography. Brodskys collection in
cludes black and white photographs of 
anonymous people placed against blank 
backgrounds. The characterization of the be
ing in each photograph is obvious, but personal 
identity is concealed.
Akram Midani presents some interestng obli
que perspectives of shopfronts in a Canadian 
department store. The inanimate mannequins 
in the windows become members of the human 
race once their images are seen among the 
reflections of the pedestrians on the street.
Other interesting displays at the show are 
Bruce Brelands slow-scan videos and Bruce 
Carters woodcuts. 4 Squared =16 Easy 
Pieces (1986) by Breland is a series of com
puter images depicting the process of taking 
apart an orange. The images are very realistic 
and the colors extremely vivid.
Bruce Carter affects us emotionally with his 
poignant and stark images of the Vietnam War. 
Holy Art Thou (1986) captures a sense of 
human suffering and terror through the con
torted faces of the prisoners, the horrifying 
religious idol in the background, and the sole 
use of black for the images in the print.
Other faculty members exhibiting work are: 
Elaine King, Kathleen Mulcahy, Frederick 
Carlson, Douglas Pickering, Harry Holland, Jim 
Denney, and Walter Groer. The showT ends 
March 8th. The Carnegie Mellon Art Gallery 
is located on Craig St. in Oakland.
Doherty 2210 Films
inmm
Vvs
By Ferrugia & McHugh
Thursday
Black Orpheus
The Greek myth set in contemporary Brazil 
during carnival. The concept may sound strange 
but it works in this film beautifully. French 
director Marcel Camus has updated the Orpheus 
legend into a sensitive, touching and colorful 
story. Breno Mello and Marpessa Dawn play the 
ill-fated lovers. Brazils carnival plays a superb 
background to the story. The scenes of Rio de 
Janeiro are wonderful.
TARTAN MOVIE RATING 3.50
Friday
Cocoon
This was one of the most memorable films of 
1985. It brings together many veteran actors 
in a touching and funny film. The story is about 
a group of senior citizens who discover that their 
next door neighbors are aliens and that their 
swimming pool has the power to reverse the ag
ing process. What results is good comedy and 
a beautiful, charming ending. The film stars 
such notables as Hume Cronyn, Jessica Tan
dy, Don Ameche (Oscar nominee), Maureen 
Stapleton, Wilford Brimely and Gwen Yerdon. 
Expertly directed by Ron Howard.
TARTAN MOVIE RATING 4.00
Saturday
Liquid Sky
A bizarre, low-budget film about alien beings 
that kill humans. The humans, of course, are 
making love when they are killed. If that sounds 
strange to you than you are not alone. This 
movie bombed at the box office and has since 
made its way to the ranks of cult films. Mostly 
the film resembles a psychedelic dream. If 
youre interested in twisted and bizzare insani
ty then go see it. If not, anything else would be 
a vast improvement with the possible exception 
of root canal work.
TARTAN MOVIE RATING 1.25
Sunday
Time After Time
Jack the Ripper is on the loose and- H.G. 
Wells is hot on his trail. The only problem is 
that Jacks in San Francisco, brought from the 
past by Wells time machine. Director Nicholas 
Meyer expertly weaves real people and fictional 
characters into a plausible and very interesting, 
story. Malcome McDowell plays Wells and 
David Warner is perfectly sinister as Jack the 
Ripper. Mary Stcenburgen play's Wells' 
modern day girlfriend, certainly a likely target 
for Jack.
TARTAN MOVIE RATING 3.75
Holy Art ThouWoodcut by Bruce Carter
INVEST IN YOUR CAREER
Get a competetive edge!
We will conduct one-on-one coaching with you in Basic and Advanced Interviewing techniques
We use Videotaping with Feedback Sessions to instruct you in the critical points of an interview
We provide a final Videotape Interview that can be sent to selected employers
Call NOW FOR AN APPOINTMENT:
(412) 921-8844 or write:
VIDEO INTERVIEW 2 Parkway Center - Suite 250 Pittsburgh, PA 15220
A Kirkwood Consulting Associates, Inc. subsidiary
"A company with professionals who have over 20 years ex
perience with major U.S. corporations in the Personnel/Human 
Resources field."

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanFebruary 11, 1986
* tdit Gallery Chart format Macro Window
Three Vear Plan
The Acme Company: Three Vear Plan, 1986 -1988
In Thousands^
CJagsss Plan Sales us. Cost of Sales
Cost of sales
Pretax tlargN 
Taxes
Net Proft
Iron Eagle: No plot, lots of planes
DEMO STUDIO
Quality Recording You Can Afford
1052 Franklin Drive 
Bethel Park. PA 15102 
JACK IRWIN (412) 835^6398
By ALBRECHT POWELL
Tartan Production Manager
Teetering on the delicate balance between the 
surreal of plot, setting, and theme, and the 
realism of the intricacies of flight, Iron Eagle, 
the newest release from Tri-Star Productions is 
a poor continuation of the one-man Bambo 
type breed of entertainment.
The movie, portrays Jason Gedrick (an eigh
teen year old Air Force brat and hopeful pilot, 
Doug Masters) as one of the greatest heroes 
America has yet seen. He is a one man brave 
killing machine who is determined to save the 
life of his father, shot down and taken prisoner 
in a hostile middle eastern country. When Doug 
realizes that the Air Force will do nothing to at
tempt to save his father from the clutches 
of imminent death, he enlists the aid of several 
friends and embarks on a rescue mission to save 
him.
Masters own private Air Force crew, which 
includes a retired Air Force Colonel (Lou 
Gossett Jr.) as well as many of his teenage 
friends, undertake the mission to save his father. 
They break just about every violation known to 
the Air Force. They break into various restricted 
areas on the Air Force base, steal classified
star in Iron Eagle.
flights, freely walking in to restricted areas, and 
borrowing two fighter planesplease be real. 
If the producers attempt was to make the Air 
Force look bad, he certainly achieved his goal 
successfully.
The only thing that really saves this otherwise
1.0 rated droll movie is the fact that there were 
airplanes. Aerial Director Jim Gavin is to be 
complemented on some of the best modern 
aerial jet age fighter photography ever seen.
The aircraft, American made F-16s were 
borrowed from Israel for the making of this 
movie. Since the USAF is protective of its air
craft, unlike the portrayal in the movie, they did 
not want any film crews to get hold of their 
strategic aircraft. Tri-Star approached Israel 
who agreed to the renting of their planes for 
several million dollars. Not surprisingly, the 
money did produce some spectacular results.
Many planes are ultimately destroyed in the 
movie, although the special effects were therein 
quite lacking. When one sees this fantastic aerial 
photography, one expects to see realistic explo
sions. Well, it got to the point where people were 
looking for the strings on the models. The movie 
is exceptionally unrealistic. The only thing at 
all worthwhile is the pilots eyes view from 
the cockpit method of photography. Utilizing a 
revolutionary idea of mounting Arriflex III 
cameras under the wings, it produced a fairly 
realistic simulator for the audience experience 
the realism of flight.
The dog-fighting in the air between planes is 
very good, and makes you feel as if you are a 
part of it. Up until now, jets have been 
something that just flew by...now, theyre gon
na do the bombing and the firing. Theres never 
been a dogfight of the modern jet era like 
this..., contends Sidney Furie, Director.
Where else can you see a kid take on 20 
MiGs while simultneously outflying his veteran 
experienced father? The movie is just full of ex
treme surrealism. If a fantasy world was what 
Furie wanted, he should have made a cartoon. 
The entire movie just radiates with falseness and 
unrealism. From the boys actions in stealing 
the information and the planes, the lack of 
security of the Air Force, to the actual combat 
scenes, the movie was overtly just too 
unbelievable.
To an aviation buff, the movie is worthwhile 
seeing, just for the 30-odd minutes of spec
tacular aircraft scenes. But otherwise, the ex
treme lack of realism makes this totally 
unbelievable movie almost sickening.
TARTAN MOVIE GRADE 2.3
reconnaissance and navigational information 
break into classsified computer systems (a bla
tant copy of War Games), requisition time in 
a fighter simulator, and the coup-de-gras, bor
row two of the most advanced F-16 fighter air
craft fully loaded with armament.
He then begins his journey to the middle east 
to save the life of his father. This teenager, not 
in the Air Force and with only a private pilots 
license, singlehandedly takes on the enemy 
against incredible odds in one of the worlds 
most sophisticated aircraft.
The movie is bluntly droll. There are no in
tricacies in plot, theme or emotion. The only 
truly emotional scene comes about when the 
retired colonel sits down and talks with Doug 
about the dangers of this mission. He speaks 
of all of the young men who have died flying 
with him in the past years. Other attempts are 
made at stabbing the epithetical hearts of the 
audience, but they are feeble at best.
Acting is another point greatly lacking. 
Gossett, as usual, portrayed and carried himself 
extremely well throughout the movie. However, 
Gedrick and the rest of the cast seemed as if 
it was more of a chore than willingness to por
tray their parts.
Beat thy roommate
The best time to get ahead in the business 
world is not when you get into the business world.
It's when you get into school.
Enter, the Macintosh
With programs like Microsoft: Excel and 
Jazz from Lotusf it lets you put together forecasts, 
marketing plans, financial statements, costing 
and cash flow faster than you can say grey
(g, 14NS A|iple Computer. Inc Apple and tit Apple lojjn are ivj;isteivd trademarks of .Apple Gimpuler. Inc 
Micnsoft is a ivyisierwl trademark of Microsoft Corporation. Jazz
flannel suit with tasseled loafers.
Macintosh helps students work smarter, 
quicker and more creatively. And the beauty of it 
all is, you dont have to know diddley about 
computers to use one.
Just dont let your roommate, the 
marketing wiz, see this ad.
At least not until after you graduate.
Macintosh is a trademark of McIntosh laboratory. con and is beins used with its express permission 
and l/itus are trademarks of i/)tus Development Corporation
Lou Gossett Jr. and Jason Gedric
The entire production seems to scoff at the 
United States Air Force. It portrays them as one 
of the laxest organizations in existence. A bunch 
of kids stealing all this classified data, setting 
up this fake mission, arranging for refueling
W

---------------------------------------------------

February 11, 1986The TartanPage 15
Bob Dylan, Art of Noise, and The Bangles
By THE SYNDICATE
Tartan Record Reviewers
Bob Dylan 
Biograph: Time Passes Slowlv 
CBS
Once again, the record album buyers of 
America are subject to the greatest hit or 
previously unreleased phenomenon. The 
culprits this time: Bob Dylan and Columbia 
Records.
Dylans newest album is entitled Biograph: 
Time Passes Slowly. And guess what, its one 
of those albums with a few words about each 
record and the artists life following the song 
titles. Such classic quotations as I always 
thought it. . . [/ Wanna Be Your Lover]. . . was 
a good song, but it never made it onto an 
album. are enscribed on the back cover. Col
umbia must have been a bit short of cash and 
ideas because after twenty years, the song final
ly made it big. (It was originally recorded in Oc
tober, 1965).
The album is a mixture of Dylans previous
ly unreleased cut and classics from the sixties, 
the most famous of which is Like a Rolling 
Stone. Songs such as this are used to offset the 
inferior quality of the unreleased tracks. Now, 
we can all hear what the back cover describes 
as a blazing verision of Isis, a ten year old pro
motional sampler, as well as Positively 4th 
Street, which had already been released on 
Greatest Hits, Volume I. There are eight songs 
in all, four of which are previously unreleased.
In this era of albums such as Billy Joels 
Greatest Hits, the last thing the music world 
needs is Dylans Biograph: Time Passes Slow
ly. What happened to originality? Where are 
all these previously unreleased songs com
ing from? If they are good enough to be sold 
now, why werent the songs released when they 
were recorded?
Actually, I dont believe legends such as Bob 
Dylan are at fault. Companies just want to make 
money, even at the cost of quality.
JAY SHRAGER
Art of Noise 
Legs 
Chrysalis/China Records
Too much of todays progressive music is dif
ferent for the sake of being different. However, 
the group Art of Noise takes a more intelligent 
approach to music. Using themes from jazz and 
classical genres, they create a unique sound.
Legs, their first release, opens with a vintage 
riff reminiscent of 1950s variety show introduc
tions and evolves into a hip hop symphony.
A heavy funk rythm backs a progressive mix 
of sound (mostly electronic) that continuously 
presents a simple, hypnotic dance melody in a 
variety of styles. This technique is a familiar to 
fans of this eclectic trio through previous dance 
chart toppers such as Beat Box or Close to 
the Edit. The use of an impossing bass wow 
through the album is new (deep bass 
guitar/slowed voice) and adds to the funky 
flavor.
Hoops & Mallets is a pure industrial 
number consisting of a metronome like back 
beat, a low heavy vibrato bass phrase repeated 
during the number, and finishes with a 
sometimes playful, always light ambient melody. 
The combination is a unique-make you want 
to move-number.
DAN RITZ
The Bangles 
In A Different Light 
CBS Records
If the Bangles played half as good as they 
look, they would have gold records coming out
of their ears. However, this is not the case. Sad
ly, the Bangles latest album Different Light, pro
ves that the Bangles are little more than pretty 
faces.
Every track from the ballad If She Knew 
What She Wants, to the upbeat title tract In 
A Different Light has the same exact drum 
beat. Hence, each song cannot be discerned 
from the others without the aid of the lyrics.
The lyrics are the only bright spot in this 
rather bland and unoriginal release. With 
creative words like those in In A Different 
Light:
Wanna write a novel
Freeze all your expressions into words
Come back later and read
about what I should have heard.
Or like the more suggestive lyrics in Manic 
Monday:
He tells me in his bedroom voice 
Cmon honey, lets go make some noise 
Time goes so fast 
When you are having fun
The rest of the songs, particulary Walk Like 
An Egyptian and Angels Dont Fall In Love 
have excellent lyrics, but the sound is the same. 
It is obvious that these four women: Vicki Peter
son (Lead Guitar, Vocals), Michael Steele (Bass, 
Vocals), Debbi Peterson (Drums, Vocals), and 
Susanna Hoffs (Guitar, Drums, Vocals), are very 
talented singers. Their harmony is quite good 
in almost every song. The lead vocals are clear, 
controled, and beautiful.
With such good vocals, how can this album 
go wrong. The answer is easy; they cant play 
their instruments for beans. They are flat, dull, 
and even when the music sounds halfway de
cent, the lyrics are trite.
It realy is a shame that a group with as much 
lyrical and vocal talent as the Bangles is lost in 
a sea of bad music. Maybe next time around 
they will realize that an album has to have good
music, first and formost, and not just pretty pic
tures and words.
BRUCE KASREL
LISA LISA
PITTSBURGH: The sound of street music 
comes alive when Full Force with special guest 
Lisa-Lisa and Cult Jam rock Pittsburgh on Feb. 
13 at 7:30 p.m. in the Syria Mosque Ballroom. 
Tickets are on sale now at all area National 
Record Marts, Oasis Records and Tapes, the 
Syria Mosque Box Office and by charge to Visa 
MasterCard by calling 621-3333.
Full Force, the groups first album, is the 
result of writing and producing by the six 
members. The band became an industry item 
last year when they wrote two of the biggest 
street and crossover hits, Roxanne, Roxanne" 
by U.T.F.O. and I Wonder If I Take You 
Home by Lisa-Lisa and Cult Jam with Full 
Force.
The group is rapidly gaining ground on the 
music scene with versatility spanning urban 
dance to street-soul ballads to rockabilly sounds 
The self-titled album of Lisa-Lisa and Cult 
Jam follows up on the single of I Wonder If 
I Take You Home, a #1 dance hit, a top-5 
R&B smash and a top-40 hit as well. What 
began as an underground hit in 85 reached 
bona-fide hit status, thanks to popular demand 
and inclusion on the Breakdancing LP.
Group leader Lisa-Lisa admits that with us, 
theres more vocals, more feeling. Its 
danceable, but you can actually sit down and 
listen to it.
For more information on Full Force and LisaLisa and Cult Jam, call 621-3333.
Lonely 
Hearts 
Dance
Friday February 14 9pm-1am 
Live music by:
Son of John 
The Affordable Floors 
Also a DJ:
Music to Go
CMU
Computer Store
CMU Computer Store: UCC - A level
Phone: x2636 MS: PS00@TE 
For a current price list: Type HELP COMPUTER-STORE-PRICES on any
TOPS System.
Epson Printer Clearance
(All priced at or below cost!)
ClearanceRetail
RX-80
RX-80 FT+
RX-100
FX-80
FX-80+
FX-100+
202.00
258.00
349.00
359.00
319.00
439.00
299.00
399.00
499.00
599.00
599.00
889.00
All items available in limited quantities 
and only while supplies last.
l
Student
Dormitory
Council

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Nollem Eigenracby Mike McHughZurk

loODkV- 'r'i^cw'jl ftu*\
A uJ^At \oJce*c__
10 i \l iav\ look- o.-UV8:
(2\ejC--, "SC avuA i Va
Vili rwj\v\a. OJVxxV 
0p .mPRESII D
TU tyMj vausV -^vwV. We'^ 
pceHvj tiuieedpag COel\, I 
+WaV< I'W jvxsV ^Wxjo W>v*.
The Top Floorby M
r>r ' mz 50 DIFFICULT TO MEt7 $sS j//,. ANYONE NEW AND Y INTERESTING IN THIS CITY...
larky... instead of putting you through THE PAINFUL PROCESS OF FLIRTING UITH ME ALL NIGHT, ONLY TO HA Vi ME MAKE UP SOME LAME EXCUSE ABOUT B0IN6 ON A SECRET CIA MISSION AND THUSLY NEVER BEING, ABLE TO DAT YOU AGAIN...I'W dOINC, TO LEAVE RIGHT NOW.
Poindexterby Don Beyer
TW ^WiM9U\T (M0? 
ILU^TAT^P
eiriNi' Mtfpe
Mpe ~
. me tuey
LAV TO THe 
IM Avulsi AT\Ot^
H, I DON r THlNilC^O.
Mv IMAGINAT^k! 
To && in)
Hi?H- d me
r?
DoakNe tProf^SIGUSPStryker and the Alamo Three FfO tProfSeS
Public Enemy Number One
by Adam Rosenberg 
and James Kurien
FikjAW^A Mf\>4- -TO f=7Cf- A 
^A^K-Put, -
I2Telphon: n51-
MTiggg^T
-Xs^u. i p^r -&u 'Xoc?(sCftA&O- TA^u- rPi^?
with a mv &?cM--AT^ X?M N\&JeZ- <U.C7\\I 
R/HAtT- yWe yMNTC OBAFV o
Ah i A^r &&<?> Hgr&X^e rzo&t&L-'i Aeeiu^' 'tA^T ^v/^-fcATItfwAn^f A^P MK vVuufTUCW-i'Tx?
: rnmettte , AglFiM Tar tnSrO0<mc? &e7& 7
HELLO,MI tome 6 ACH6AD OURFRATli?wm 
WOULD UK.ET (MMlTE YOUR T OOR SLOop WO SOM'S MlUt PfcRTY YOU et WlMC. "(Ou-R OWN SLAUGHTERING 
KNlfE if You WI5U.
Inkspotsby Kurt Sh
SENILE AMERICA'S OMLYMAl$.15
END Of EXCITEMENT AFTER 198 PPw
C
eigH  Ht*

---------------------------------------------------

February 11, 1986The TartanPage 17
by Nabil Liumang
WE ARE ALSO VIM6 fiARTY CALLED rrtiw-'1' of television! uponi sruftoWAERI^fM'J STuDEMTi " wf 0,0 To-fbp 
OF HAMER5CH1-A& ANO THRow TV 
5T5 ON UNSOJpfcTiNc, PfoPt-f
Naw
?
xa/caW1 THosg U5YW 6UV5 
NetPrro f^SIGU FSOR WK TW-RovJ 6>o^) pfvtmK
>1-
> c
i
16 Digressional by Seth Eliot
RWrIKS FfO HIAS HKTECW
m>iv\
omics in the News
PhcrVo Con+es4
1 ma*zihtf s annual c.untt
;FRY!' Send  . , rI  ervd- in your pulir before
'1 ko UC?f
3y Nabil Liumang
BLOOM COUNTY
PSSST/amev/..
OVER HERE/..
ON KHAtf OF MY5ECF ANPTHE 
REST OF VOUR SUBCONSCIOUS 
f,HmDdrC9 mdp:nC:d 1:n
SHOUU? 06 GIVEN APVWNCE 
NOTICE REGARPING OUR PIAN 
10 JUMP OUT ANP GRAB 
rOUTHl5 0^NINe. A/^,.
V .11
by Berke Breathed
P
U)0K... JUST 'YOUR ANXIETIES/.
rHfDdu1 p: vm.ir,dC :v
ARgAlLOF YOUR FANCY, 
YOU HIDING 'THAT'S WHO/.
IN THERE?
...MONSTERS ANP MINOTAURS... 
CREATURES ANP CREEPI&S... 
BUGS ANP BEARS ANP BAiTS 
ANP OTHER PIECES OF YOUR 
PERSONAL WHIMSY.
WHY, THERE ARE EVEN A 
FEW C&E8RITES/ MAYBE 
WE COOP ARRANGE FOR 
PHYUJS SCHCAFLYTO 
JUMP OUT ANP GRAB 
YOU SOMETIME.
WE'RNIGHTMARE5. 
HOW PIRE PREAMS ARE
ABOUT UNPER THE BEP.
VICTORIA \
PRINCIPAL? (1 ------V
ive been mm
A RATHER CARGE 
AMOUNT OF PREAMING IPMX, MlW)...
CC056T5 FULL OF
ANXIETIES...VENGEFUL
UBRARIANS...
GANT 5P0TTEP 
5N0RK/WACKERS...
Aii- OF WHICH C0NVINCE5 
ME THAT THE PISTJNCT10N 
BETWEEN REALfTY ANP 
OUR PREAMWORCP 15 
WNGER0U5CY THIN.
/
yoOsH/
HEY... ARE YOU 
MICHAEL 'MAP PG" 
BINKtEY.-.CHIlP 
EMPWYEE NUMBER 
6W7-I3 7098 V?
ICVNNO... 
I GUESS 50. 
WHY?
Yowmvoti HAS 
BEEN TERMINATEP. 
YOU'VE BECOME 
OBSOLETE.
\
No/wwrr/m 
5/wpymra?'..mm MNN meefFKXMLY!
IN, HARRY.
/
Ml RIGHT/ WH6R5 MY SOCK,vou snjpip cuomes
DRYER !?
mftmitor
SOCK Y6R GONHA 
G/6R SAT... m YOU
LISTENING?/
This past month, Berke Breathed, author of Bloom County, suffered a back injury due to a flying accident. At last report, Mr. Breathed was in a body cast, and would be so for a few months. Therefore, until further notice, the Washington Post Co. will be sending us early strips from the Bloom County Archives.the Art Editor

---------------------------------------------------

THE FAIRFAX APTS!!DECREASE STRESS
^ WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS OF CMU 
^ REASONABLE RENTAL RATES!
^ THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND!
^ "THE FAIRFAX" ...4614 5th AVE.I 
s YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
SIGN UP FOR WORKSHOPS AT THE COUNSELING CENTER:
MANAGING SCHOOL & PERSONAL STREES4 Wendnesdays, 4:30 - 5:30 p.m.; begins February 26
GOING HOME AGAIN: DEALING WITH PARENTS2 Wendsdays, 4:00 - 5:00 pm., March 12 & 19
Furnished Apts. AvailableTHE WOMENS GROUP4 Thursdays, 5:00 - 6:00 pm.; begins February 27
The management invites the Faculty 
Members, Graduate Students & CMU 
Guests to visit and inspect our ONE 
BEDROOM & STUDIO APARTMENTS
GETTING ALONG: DEALING WITH ROOMATE CONFLICT4 Tuesdays, 4:30 - 5:30 p.m.; begins February 25
UNDERSTANDING ALCOHOL AND DRUG ABUSE IN FAMILIES2 Tuesdays, 4:00 - 5:00 pm., March 11 & 18
Available for immediate occupancy
Dial 621-4030
FOR INFORMATION AND REGISRATION: Call x2922, or visit Counseling & Student Development Center Morewood Gardens, E Tower, Room 103 9:00 a.m. - 12 noon & 1:00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m.
We'll see YOU at
"THE FAIRFAX" ...Neighbor.V'
THE .
p IZ Z A
OSKUND-AT
TheartT
681-2202 or 681-2203

---------------------------------------------------

Gallery
SEND your V4LEtoT/N A
5heu-fktm hou much you care.'
HURW.' WHILE THEY LAST/ ( 
ms (proofs
1 Op +-o a. cyoodIllustration by Richard Smith
Illustration by John Gray
Illustration by Elise Friedland
gisfeilIllustration by Karen Kmetz
Illustration by Richard Smith

---------------------------------------------------


Please fill out this questionaire for Scotland Yard (S.Y.), 
your Campus Pub. Either mail it to S.Y. through campus 
mail, or bring it directly to S.Y. and receive a free soda.
Your Campus Pub Wants To Know
Place an "MM by the types of food you would MOST like to have at S.Y., 
and an "L" by the types of food you would LEAST I1ke to have.
bread, cheese & fruit pi 
open-faced sandwiches 
stuffed pita bread 
donuts & pastries 
chips & pretzels 
hot vegetable platter 
Sunday brunch platter 
fried provolone sticks 
vegetable & dip platter 
chocolate-covered fruit 
french pizza bread 
stuffed mushrooms 
other
atter
____nachos
____tacos
____chi 1 i
____cakes
____nuts
____soup
____cook i es
____fondue
___crackers
____pop corn
_pies
_bi scui ts 
ice cream 
French dip 
fruit salad 
cold cuts 
frozen yogurt 
chicken wings 
escargot 
fried bananas 
onion rings 
ambros ia 
muff ins
sausage subs 
potato skins 
fried zucchini 
hot pretzels 
garlic bread 
meatbal1 subs 
French onion soup 
broccoli bread 
Greek salad 
french fries 
fried shrimp
Place an "M" by the part of day you would MOST likely come to S.Y., 
and an "L" by the part of day you would LEAST likely come to S.Y.. 
(Assume S.Y. is open 24 hours per day.)
 breakfast time  lunch time  mid-afternoon
 dinner time  evening  late night
Place an "M" by the types of drinks you would MOST likely drink 
and an "L" by the types of drinks you would LEAST likely drink.
 fresh fruit drinks  fresh fruit & yogurt smoothies  shakes  floats
____hot coffee ____mocha coffee ____ice coffee ____milk ____juice
____hot tea ____herbal teas ____iced tea ____sodas ____fruit flavored sodas
____hot chocolate ____espresso ____cappuclno ____punch ____spritzers
other______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
What discount/attract1on/spec1al event (e.g., 2-for-1 drinks, Happy Hour) 
would bring you into S.Y.?
What would entice you to eat a meal more in Scotland Yard rather than in 
Morewood Gardens, Kiltie Cafe, or Tartan Grill?

---------------------------------------------------

Classifieds
HANSOME YOUNG MAN SEARCHING FOR 
SOPHISTICATED, BEAUTIFUL WOMAN HAV
ING HOT CHOCOLATE IN THE PLAZA FOR 
MARRIAGE AND LOVE. x4378.
Frustrated, Tired. Overw orked? Take a break, Call 
Easy Does It typing and word processing. 
Pickup/delivery. 824-6879.
YOUNG TRAVELLERS NEWSLETTER! Includes: 
800 no.; travel service; features on exotic 
OVERSEAS budget travel, work, study! Send check 
($12/yr.) to Y.T.N., P.O. Box 3887, New Haven, 
Ct. 06525
$10-$360 Weekly/Up Mailing Circulars! No quotas! 
Sincerly interested rush self-addressed envelope: Suc
cess, POBox 470CEG, Woodstock, IL 60098
FOR SALE: 76 SAAB GL New tires, brakes, insp. 
$2000 or b.o. 241-5806
DISTINCTIVE WEDDING INVITATIONS, AN
NOUNCEMENTS, STATIONARY, for all occasions. 
FABULOUS SELECTION, DISCOUNT PRICES. 
J.R. Stationary shown by appointment. 243-0380
SHADY SIDE APT
3 ROOMS - 1 BEDROOM REDECORATED 
SECURITY SYSTEM (WALL-TO-WALL)
TEL 621-2873
Give your sweetie a gift she will remember-----
Minute-Maid Cleaning....Serving Pgh over 5 years. 
Insured and Trained personal.... 682-3860
Room in Squirrel Hill house for rent. Good location, washer & 
Call 421-5668.
dryer, off-street parking.
THREE RIVERS ARTS FESTIVAL NEEDS 
CREW TO SET UP, MAINTAIN, AND TO TAKE 
DOWN THE FESTIVAL. 35 HOURS/WEEK, MAY
10 TO JULY 10,$4.00/HOUR. INVOLVES PUT
TING UP STAGES, PAVILIONS, SCAFFOLDING, 
HANGING OR INSTALING ARTWORK. CALL 
PAUL SULLIVAN MONDAYFRIDAY 261-7040.
SHADYSIDE APARTMENT Clean one bedroom, 
new appliances, microwave oven. One block from 
Walnut St. TEL: 344-3637
STUDY MEDICAL VENIPUNCTURE with clincal 
and classroom training. Conducted by Phlebotomy 
Training Center at CMU campus. Short, inexpensive 
course. Call 521-7334.
PARTIES, PARTIES, PARTIES We have 
everything for your party in our 10,000 square foot 
Party Supermarket. PAPERMART, BAUM BLVD at 
MOREWOOD ST. Tel: 681-8900.
HIGHWAY, TRAFIC, & STREET SIGNS. OF
FICIAL. SEND $1 FOR CATALOGUE. DE SIGN 
STORE, PO BOX 2781, PALM BEACH, FL. 33480
T Belle
Now that your world is stereo again, lets 
regain that old hi-fi.
Happy V-Day 
love, F Butte
ARE WE HAVING FUN YET? A WHEN ARE 
YOU GOING TO TEACH ME TO SKI? AS. 
POOH BEAR,
Have you found your honey?
Art
City Theater Company. NUTS by Tom Topor is 
presented through February 16. For ticket informa
tion, call 624-4101.
Pittsburgh Playhouse Junior Childrens Theatre.
The Magic Horn of Charlemagne. A heroic story of 
young Roland, nephew of Charlemagne, who seeks 
to recover the Emperors famous sword Durandal 
from evil Falerine. Set against the background of the 
Middle Ages, this play brings the period and its peo
ple to life in a stirring adventure at 11 am and 2:30 
pm, Saturdays, and 2:30 pm, Sundays through 
March 29.
Marcus Gordon Gallery. Six new etchings by Judy 
Barie are presented. Hugh Kepets, Paul Narkiewicz, 
Leslie Golomb, Nancy Hagin and Carolyn Brady also 
exhibit their work. The exhibition runs through March 
22. Gallery hours are 11 am to 5:30 pm, Monday 
through Saturday; 11 am to 8 pm, Thursday. The 
Gallery is on 416 Craig Street.
Patrouchka, Ray monda Variations, and Don 
Juan. Petrouchka is acknowledged as the supreme 
example of a masterpiece from the Diaghilev era. 
Tender, lively, folksy, and moving! Raymonda Varia
tions is a splendid series of variations. Another great 
Balanchine ballet. Don Juan (Mozart) World 
Premiere by German Zamuel, a renowned Russian
contemporary choreographer, deals humorously with 
the life of the legendary lover. February 13, 14, 15, 
and 16 at the Pittsburgh Ballet Theater. For ticket 
information call the Pittsburgh Ballet Theater. 
Pittsburgh Society of Artists. Flowers for Dona is 
shown through February 21 in the Pittsburgh Center 
for the Arts Courthouse Gallery/Forum. For infor
mation, call 392-8411.
Pittsburgh Center for the Arts. The annual exhibi
tion, Money1 is shown in the Main Gallery at the Pitt
sburgh Center for the Arts through February 23. Dale 
Luce, Mixed Media and Sculpture, exhibits his work 
in the AAP Gallery through February 23. 
Pittsburgh Center for the Arts Workshop. Herbert 
Olds conducts a workshop on Figure Drawing4 from 
February 14 through February 16. For more infor
mation, call the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts School 
at 361-0455.
Transitional Spaces: Designs by Pittsburgh Ar
chitects at the UP Gallery, corner of Forbes Ave. and 
South Bouquet St. Tuesday - Saturday: 10 am to 4 
pm, Sunday 2-5 pm. Through March 2, 1986 
Robert Arneson: Points of View. Robert Arneson 
presents his ceramic sculptures, drawings and prints 
through March 16 at the Pittsburgh Center for the 
Arts Commons Room Gallery.
Mark Burns: A Decade in Pennsylvania,
As Ift ?
Help fight MS.
Join SDC and "The Time'
at the
Rock-Alike Airband'
March 1
1975-1985. Mark Burns presents his ceramics and 
mixed media through March 23 at the Society for 
Art in Crafts, 719 Allegheny River Boulevard. Gallery 
hours are 10 am to 5 pm, Monday through Satur
day; and 1 pm to 5 pm, Sunday.
Art by Art Activists. Jerri Allyn, Nancy Buchanan, 
Joselito Fernadez, Gene Gort, Donald Harvey and 
Jerry Kearns present their work through March 1 at 
Gallery G (lower gallery), 211 Ninth Street. Gallery 
hours are IT am to 5 pm, Monday through Friday;
11 am to 2 pm, Saturday.
Political Statements in Clay. Dale Dapkins, James 
Dugas, and Don Fisher, Peter Gourfain, Richards 
Lipscher, Kirk Mangus, and Jeff Schlanger present 
their work through March 20 at the Clay Place, 5600 
Walnut Street. Gallery hours are 10 am to 5 pm, 
Monday through Saturday; 7 pm to 9 pm, Wednes
day.
Carnegie Institute, Museum of Art Tours.
Highlight Tours, 15-minute introductory talks on a 
different work each week through February 28, 2 
pm, Tuesday through Sunday. Free with museum ad
mission.
Carnegie Museum of Art Special Programs and 
Events. Saturdays at the Museum for Families and 
Friends, is held in the Childrens Room from 1:30 
pm to 3 pm Advance registration. Call 622-3214.
Carnegie Museum of Natural History. Nature 
Photography Programs. A variety of classes are of
fered from Basic Photography to Scenic Photography. 
Advance registration. Fees vary.
Carnegie Institute. Natural World Photographic 
Competition and Exhibition (Changing Exhibits 
Gallery) continues through March 16.
Velar Gallery. Memory 1986. Ten photographers, 
members of the Manchester Craftsmens Guild, ex
hibit their work through February 29. The Velar 
Gallery is in the lobby of the Graduate School of In
dustrial Administration and is open to the public 9 
am to 5 pm, Monday through Friday.
Countries in Crisis. Nancy Chunn exhibits her pain
tings through February 23 at the Hewlett Gallery, 
first floor of the College of Fine Arts. Gallery hours 
are 11 am to 4 pm, Tuesday through Friday; noon 
to 4 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm to 4 pm, Sunday. 
Preview is February 8 from 6 pm to 9 pm.
Carnegie Mellon University Art Gallery. Hilla and 
Bernd Becher: American Industrial Buildings is 
shown through March 9. Gallery hours are 10 am 
to 5 pm, Tuesday through Friday; 11 am to 5 pm, 
Saturday; and 1 pm to 4 pm, Sunday. The Gallery 
is at 407 South Craig Street.
We Make 
High-Tech 
Happen!
Department of Metallurgical 
Engineering and Material Science
CIT Freshman Open House
Wpan Hall 7500 Tuesday, Feb. 11th.
4:30 p.m.
Followed by informal discussion and refreshments.

---------------------------------------------------

Events
Announcements
Community Class Division Valentine Gift Cer
tificates. The Community Class Division of Point Park 
College offers special Valentine gift certificates 
through February 14. The gift certificates are ideal 
for those interested in non-credit classes in dance, 
acting, music or photography. The Division is present
ly offering its Mid-Winter Term 1986. Basic 
Photography, Group Piano for Children, Group Voice 
for Adults, Mime and Musical Theatre are includ
ed.' For more information about the programs and 
gift certificates, call 392-3456.
Second Burroughs Design Competition. Bur
roughs Corporation has announced the Second Bur
roughs Design Competition for outstanding examples 
of industrial design of products that incorporate com
puter capability and technology in the 
human/machine interface. The competition is open 
to upper level industrial design students and recent 
graduates in North America. First prize is a cash 
award of $10,000 to the designer. The educational 
sponsor of the first prize recipient receives a Bur
roughs B 25 business computer with printer. Second 
prize is $5,000 to the designer and third prize is 
$ 1,000. All entries must be received by March 31. 
Award winners will be notified by telegram after April 
15. Further information on the 1986 Burroughs 
Design Competition can be obtained from: Competi
tion Coordinator, Corporate Industrial Design, Bur
roughs Corporation, 41100 Plymouth Road, 
Plymouth, MI 48170. Telephone: 313-451-4468. 
Monticello, home of Thomas Jefferson, is accepting 
applications for its Summer Archaeological Field 
School, which last four ot eight weeks. For informa
tion write to Dr. William Kelso, Director of Ar
cheology, Monticello, Dept. SN, Box 316, Charlot
tesville, VA 22902. Deadline is April 14, 1986. 
Cape Cod Summer Jobs. Resort businesses in area 
are hiring college students for summer work. For in
formation send a long self addressed stamped 
envelope to Cape Cod Summmer Job Bureau, Box 
594, Room 8, Barnstable, MA 02630 
Coors Scholarships applications being accepted. 
Awards of up to $5000 available to dependents of 
American veterans. Applications available from Coors 
Veterans Memorial Scholarship Fund, P.O. Box 
7529, Wheeling, 111. 60090 or by calling 
1-800-49COORS. Deadline is July 1, 1986. 
Intervarsity Christian Fellowship. Daily prayer 
meetings are held at 6 pm in the Chapel, Skibo Room 
39, Monday through Saturday.
Congratulations to Mitzi Huff, Betsy Lawrence, and 
John Deley for an excellent performance at Scotland 
Yard.
President Cyerts Office Hours. President Richard 
M. Cyert has open office hours for students on 
February 21, March 11, and April 4 from 3 pm to
5 pm in his office, WH 602. Students who wish to 
meet with the president should telephone his 
secretary at 268-2200 to set up an appointment.
If you wish to place an announcement, 
classified ad, miscellaneous item, or event in The 
Tartan send it in care of Leslie Gordon/ACME, 
Public Relations, Carnegie-Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, PA. 15213; send it via campus mail 
to the above address; or drop it off at 5017 Forbes 
Ave. Events may be sent through computer mail 
to TT99@TF. Only classified ads will be ac
cepted over the phone.
Please include the following information when 
submitting events: title of event, sponsor, brief 
description, location, date, and time. In addi
tion, include the name and phone number of the 
person submitting; this information will be used 
only to confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the accuracy 
or validity of any Events listings. In addition, it 
reserves the right to edit or omit any listing for 
publication.
Classified ad forms are available in our office.
All events are free of charge and open to the 
general CMU student population unless other
wise noted.
Deadline for Acme Submissions is Wednesday 
at 5 pm for the next weeks issue. If you have any 
comments or suggestions, send them to any of the 
addresses listed above.
11
Tuesday
Movies
Thursday
The Thin Man, starring William 
Powell, Myrna Loy and Asta. The Dashiell Hammett 
story becomes the first in a long line of fast, funny, 
sometimes very classy adventures of Nick and Nora 
Charles. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 
pm Admission $2.95.
Sports
Fencing. Away game against Indiana University at
7 pm.
Lectures
Department of Metallurgical Engineering and 
Materials Science Staff Seminar. Dr. Owen Rich
mond, ALCOA Research Laboratories, speaks on 
Process Modelling1 at 3 pm in WEH 7500. Infor
mal discussions and refreshments are available after
wards in WEH 2325.
Department of Architecture Lecture Series.
Giuseppe Zambonini speaks at 8 pm in WEH 7500. 
Department of Chemical Engineering Seminar.
Professor Warren Seider, Chemical Engineering 
Department, University of Pennsylvania, speaks on 
Analysis of Complex Chemical Reaction Systems4 
at 11 am in DH 1112. Coffee and doughnuts are 
served at 10:45 am in DH 1102.
Workshops
Interv iew ing Tips. Calm anxieties by learning about 
the format of a screening interview and how to 
prepare for it from 4:30 pm to 5:30 pm in Skibo 
room 45.Wednesday
12
Movies
13
Phar Lap, starring Tom Burlinson, 
Martin Vaughan, Judy Morris and Ron Liebman. In
teresting film about the famous Australian racehorse 
who died suddenly in 1932. Worth a look. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Smithereens, sponsored by the Pittsburgh Filmakers 
at 6:30 pm and 8:30 pm at the Fulton, 101 Sixth 
Street.
Sports
Womens Basketball. Home game against John 
Carroll University at 7 pm.
Mens Basketball. Away game against John Carroll 
University at 8 pm.
Swimming. Home game against Washington and 
Jefferson College at 4 pm.
Lectures
Department of Art Series. Critic and painter, 
Thomas Lawson speaks at 7 pm in WEH 7500.
Department of Architecture Seminar Series.
James Wescoat, University of Chicago speaks on 
Garden Versus City: Environmental Design in Ear
ly Mughal India4 at noon in CFA 206.
Music
Graduate Recital. Larry Marietta is conducting the 
CM choirs at 8 pm in the Fox Chapel Presbyterian 
Church.
Clubs
AIESEC, an international, student-run business 
organization, offers a world of experience, both prac
tical and cultural. Meetings are held at 4:30 pm in 
Skibo room 11.
A Phi O, meets in the Adamson Wing, Baker Hall, 
at 8:30 pm.
French Table. The Modern Languages Program 
sponsors a French Language Table every Wednes
day at noon at the Morewood Cafeteria.
Movies
The Shooting Party, starring James 
Mason, John Gielgud, and Cheryl Campbell. Wellacted film about a group of English aristocrats who 
gather at a large estate for a weekend of sport. Pitt
sburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:45 pm. Admis
sion $2.95.
Smithereens, sponsored by the Pittsburgh Film
makers at 6:30 pm and 8:30 pm at the Fulton, 101 
Sixth Street.
Black Orpheus, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 
at 6 pm, 8 pm, and 10 pm. Admission $1.
Special Programs
Museum of Art Special Programs and Events.
Parent/Child ARTexpress provides weekly activities 
for adults and children from 10 am to 11:30 am 
every Thursday. Advance registration. For more in
formation call 622-3241.
Clubs
German Table. The Modern Languages Program 
sponsors a German Language table at noon in the 
Morewood Cafeteria.
CMU Explorers Club. If youre interested in rock 
climbing, kayaking, caving and hiking, come to a 
meeting at 6:30 pm in Baker Hall 131B. Trips every 
weekend. Beginners are welcome.
14_L JL
Friday
Movies
15
Saturday
Movies
Stop Making Sense, excellent con
cert film featuring the group The Talking Heads sing
ing 16 songs including Burning Down the House. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm, and 
11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Chan is Missing, A middle-aged Chinese-American 
cabbie and his wisecracking young nephew who learn 
that their friend Chan Hung has disappeared with 
their savings. Walking in the footsteps of Charlie Chan 
and his Number One Son, these two subgumshoes 
set out across Chinatown in search of the elusive 
Chan, encountering a lot of cross-cultural puns and 
crazy characters like a Chinese cook who sings Fry 
(Me To The Moon. Sponsored by the Pittsburgh 
Filmakers at 8 pm and 9:45 pm at the Fulton, 101 
Sixth Street.
Liquid Sky. sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at
6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight. Admission $1.
Woody Allen Double Bill: Love 
and Death, starring Diane Keaton, a zany spoof of 
Russion Literature, and Sleeper, a man frozen in 
1973 is revived in 2173 with hilarious results. Pitt
sburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, and 10:30 pm. Ad
mission $2.95.
Polyester, starring John Waters. Sponsored by the 
Pittsburgh Filmakers at 8 pm at the Fulton, 101 Sixth 
Street. Admission $6.
Cocoon, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 
8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight. Admission $1.
Lectures
Robert Bidinotto, journalist, speaks on Bhopal: the 
Real Cause4 at 8 pm in the Adamson Wing. For more 
information call Pam Reinagel at 363-7326.
Clubs
Intervarsity Christian Fellowship. Large group 
meetings are held at 7 pm in Skibo Room 12.
Sports
W omens Basketball. Away game against Carlow 
College at 2 pm.
Fencing. Away game against Cleveland State Univer
sity and Case Reserve University at Cleveland State 
University at 1 pm.Sunday
Movies
The Razors Edge, starring Tyrone 
Power, Gene Tierney, Anne Baxter, Clifton Webb. 
John Payne and Herbert Marshall. Based on W. 
Somerset Maughams novel about a young man sear
ching for the essential truth in life. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Europe in Film Series: Young Torless, starring 
Volker Schlondorff. An adaptation of Robert Musils 
1906 novel about life in a boys school in the eastern 
reaches of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Admission 
is' free. Adamson Wing at 3 pm. This film series is 
sponsored by the Program in European Studies, 
Department of History.
Chan is Missing, A middle-aged Chinese-American 
cabbie and his wisecracking young nephew who learn 
that their friend Chan Hung has disappeared with 
their savings. Walking in the footsteps of Charlie Chan 
and his Number One Son, these two subgumshoes 
set out across Chinatown in search of the elusive 
Chan, encountering a lot of cross-cultural puns and 
crazy characters like a Chinese cook who sings Fry 
Me To The Moon. Sponsored by the Pittsburgh 
Filmakers at 8 pm and 9:45 pm at the Fulton, 101 
Sixth Street.
Time After Time, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 
at 6 pm, 8 pm, and 10 pm. Admission $1. 
Lectures
Pre-Concert Lecture. Dr. Stephen Carlton speaks 
at 7:30 pm in the Alumni Concert Hall, CFA. 
Music
Beaux Arts Trio Concert. The internationally ac
claimed Beaux Arts Trio is helping the Y Music Socie
ty celebrate its 60th anniversary in a concert at 8 
pm in the Morris Kaufmann Auditorium, 315 S. 
Bellefield Avenue. For tickets, call 521-8010.
The Morphic Resonance Trio play the Classics.
The Trio, Chris Koenigsberg, Jason Gibbs and Ben 
Opie, is performing experimental works by 20th cen
tury composers at 7 pm in the Frick Fine Arts 
Building Auditorium, University of Pittsburgh. Ad
mission is free.
Carnegie Mellon Symphony Orchestra Concert.
Conducted by Werner Torkanowsky at 8 pm in the 
Alumni Concert Hall, CFA.
17
Monday
Movies
Chimes at Midnight (Falstaff4),
starring Jeanne Moreau, Margaret Rutherford, John 
Gielgud and Orson Welles. Welles plays Falstaff in 
this compilation of the five Shakespearian plays about 
Falstaff. Considered by a few critics to be a Welles 
masterpiece. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 
9:40 pm. Admission $2.95.
Art History Film Series: The Neoclassicists, Jac
ques Louis David and Jean Auguste Dominique In
gres are shown at 7:30 pm at the King Estate. 
Information Session
HAeSS Majors Information Series. A session about 
career decision making is offered for Freshmen to 
help explore options and make the most of your time 
at CM. A special opportunity for H&SS freshmen to 
take an inventory relating your interests to majors 
and careers is also presented from 3 pm to 4 pm 
or 4:30 pm to 5:30 pm in PH 107A.
Steel Drum Concert. The band, led by Dr. Larry 
Snider, is playing works by Bach, Lionel Richie, Billy 
Joel and Lord Kitchner at 8 pm in the Duquesne 
University Recital Hall. Admission is free.

---------------------------------------------------

F eatures
Steelers President Rooney: Exclusive
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Entertainment Editor
The sign at the main office of the Pittsburgh 
Steelers is plain and simple: printed in polish
ed steel the words Pittsburgh Steelers is so 
small that it can barely be seen from the park
ing lot not 15 feet away. The sign not only is 
factual in the sense of where you are, but it also 
symbolizes the Steelers philosophy : keep it sim
ple and do it well. The fruits of this creed can 
be seen once you walk into the main office. The 
stunning centerpiece instantly catches your eye. 
Four Vince Lombardi Trophies shine brightly 
under the indoor fighting; no other head office 
in pro football has such an impressive and 
beautiful display.
One the men responsible for the continued 
success of the team is Steeler President Dan 
Rooney. The oldest of Art Rooneys five sons, 
Dan Rooney has grown up with football in his 
blood. After earning a B.A. in Accounting from 
Duquesne University in 1955, he began to work 
for the Steelers full time. Working in everything 
from public relations to the ticket department, 
Rooney became an integral part of the organiza
tion. And in 1975, Rooney was named presi
dent of the Steelers. Along with his father, the 
Steelers have become one of the most successful 
teams in the game. Some of his other credits 
include chairman of the leagues Expansion 
Committee (1973), Chairman of the Negotiating 
Committee (1976), membership on the Board 
of Directors of NFL Properties, as well as many 
charitable and community service organizations.
The days of the Super Bowl Champion teams 
are gone now; the Steelers had the first losing 
season since 1971 and the controversy over 
drug use fills sports sections. On January 31,
1 had the chance to talk to Dan Rooney about 
the past, present, and future of professional foot
ball. I would like to thank Dan Rooney and the 
entire Steeler operation for their complete 
cooperation. What follows is a transcript of the 
interview:
THE TARTAN: In the past few weeks the 
sports sections of most newspapers have been 
devoting a large portion of space to the issue 
of drugs in sports. The papers have printed 
stories about players who were using drugs 
regularly in the N.F.L.. The general consensus 
is that some sort of drug test shcyild be used 
in order to combat this problem. However, the 
Players Union has voiced its anger over the Con
stitutionality of such drug tests and plans to fight 
any action permitting these tests on the grounds 
that the tests violate the players rights. What 
are your views on the issue of drug usage and 
the proposed testing in the N.F.L. ?
DAN ROONEY: First of all, if there is one per
son in the league with a problem, it is a pro
blem. I am not going to take the position that 
society is to blame. I think that we need to take 
a good look at ourselves and do what is 
necessary. We have reached a situation where 
a the drug problem has become a very highly 
visible thing... we happen to be in star type 
business where the public and particularly 
young people adopt football players as role 
models. I think that takes us out of the realm 
of the normal part of society. We pay our 
athletes a lot of money, therefore they have a 
responsibility... you brought up the point of the 
Consitutionality, I think they give up some rights 
by the fact that they are part of the public 
perception of things. You loose your privacy to 
a certain extent. By no means am I saying that 
we should come in and that's the way the arti
cle was written (referring to the January 31 ar
ticle in the Post-Gazette). What I was really try
ing to say is that I do not believe that this situa
tion, the drug situation, which is all encompass
ing including testing, can be used as bargain
ing chip. The tendei . to say we will give 
you that for that. whi. is used by both the 
owners and the plavers id I feel that it is just 
too important an issue. We are talking about 
peoples lives and reputations. 1 he vast majority 
of athletes, particularly football players, and
even more particularly Steelers are not involv
ed. 1 do know that there is problem here (The 
Steelers) in the fact that there are some people 
involved, I am not going to take the position that 
we don't have a problem.
Right at this moment in time, testing is the 
only way that have a deterrent; you have proof 
and you can do something. It effects the integri
ty of the game, peoples belief in the game, and 
we believe, strongly, the play of the player. 
Unless there is another way, testing is the only 
alternative we have to get into this thing. 
Therefore, I think that we should approach this 
with viewingness. All parties should sit down 
with some drug and alcohol experts and 
discuss the issue, but not as part of the Collec
tive Bargaining Agreement (which runs through 
1986). I think were at the point that we have 
to take a strong position, and do what is recom
mended by the experts.
THE TARTAN: If a player is found to have 
a drug problem, what should be done ?
DAN ROONEY: I think that we need to get 
some expert advice. Neither management or the 
unions are qualified to make the decision. Hav
ing said that,the next thing I think that needs 
to be cranked into this issue is :we are in the 
football business and our primary objective is 
to field a team that the people we are playing 
are giving to the best of their abilities ... which 
I say, ergo, is free of drugs. On the other hand, 
we do have to look at the individual, that these 
are people and we are concerned about their 
lives. We have to encourage them to come for
ward themselves if they feel that they have a 
problem. Our first concern is to help these in
dividuals through medical services.
We need to do the testing because the tenden
cy is not to come forward. Now, when we 
discover that someone is positive on drugs, we 
have to carry it a step further and do an evalua
tion on it, then see what kind of help they need. 
At this moment in time, not suspend them or 
anything like that. Repeated people, I think that 
you start looking at some sanctions that are in
volved. How many repetitions needed to be 
suspended, I dont know. You need to sit down 
with the experts and look at the cases individual
ly, separately, but I do think that you do need 
to have a uniform policy. You can't be selec
tive on the basis of performance on the field.
I think that we need to take a good look at ourselves and do what is necessary.
THE TARTAN: Moving on, The U.S.F.L. is 
moving to a fall schedule, and most people 
agree that this a very poor move. Some have 
been hinting that it is part of plan to merge with 
the N.F.L.. As Chairman of the last Expansion 
Committee back in 1973, do you see a merger 
of any kind between the two leagues ?
DAN ROONEY: I think that the U.S.F.L. made 
an awful lot of mistakes. They came in with the 
idea that they were going to become involved 
with the N.F.L in some way, and thats the way 
they have directed themselves from the very 
beginning. Before they even played one game, 
they sent the N.F.L owners a letter warning us 
not to do anything to hurt them...they were com
petitors and we were in violation of the anti-trust 
laws. They are all talking (in the U.S.F.L) about 
a merger with the N.F.L. they are calling it ex
pansion and they are going to Congress and ask
ing to expand to these cities that have U.S.F.L 
franchises in them. I was Chairman of the Ex
pansion Committee when we expanded to Tam
pa and Seattle. We did it in an orderly fashion, 
we got those teams off the way they should have 
been. They have been very successful at the 
gate as well as on the field. We made a pretty 
good judgement in bringing professional foot
ball to those communities. We viewed the whole
situation as to where we should go and gave 
everybody a fair chance and the same oppor
tunity. I dont think it is fair to say that it is fair 
to come in and expand into these cities that have 
U.S.F.L clubs in them. What have they done 
to deserve a team more than any other com
munity that doesnt have a franchise? I think 
the N.F.L should expand, and it should do it 
like it did in Tampa and Seattle. What the 
U.S.F.L does is a separate issue, I dont think 
the N.F.L has done anything to hurt them.
THE TARTAN: One the many things that the 
Steelers are known for, is their ability to build 
very strong teams from the draft. It has only 
been until recently that the other teams in the 
league have caught on to your system. Now that 
everyone is using the draft to get players will 
the Steelers change their policies as far as deal
ing with free agents' ?
DAN ROONE\: I think that you need to get 
football players wherever you can get them. We 
still feel that it's an important thing to get players 
and bring them up through our system. We 
think that Chuck Nolls primary7 forte is as a 
teacher. He has a great ability to train young 
players and make them a part of our organiza
tion. When you bring up a young player, you 
try and teach him the way that works. When 
you bring in a player from another team, you 
have the problem that he already has been train
ed a different mode of thought, and this can 
present some difficulties. We won't rule out this 
method, but the draft still remains are best 
source of acquiring new talent.
THE TARTAN: What can we expect to see 
come draft time from the Steelers ?
DAN ROONEY: We can go into this draft and 
look at players from almost all positions. We 
are going to go into the draft as we always do, 
and see who the best player is for us. I can 
assure you that if some of the top quarterbacks 
are there we will take them. We will also look 
to possible trading up. We will look at the situa
tion and see who we can get. Drafting in the 
ninth position, I can see that some of the big 
name players will be gone, but I think this will 
be a veryr good year as far as the draft is 
concerned.
THE TARTAN: This year in particular, the im
age of many teams have gone Hollywood in 
a way. The Chicago Bears are a prime exam
ple of team that has used quite a lot of 
showbiz. Do you think that this is hurting the
image of the league or is it harmless ?
DAN ROONEY: That's a tough question, 
because there are a couple different views. I 
think the Bears this year had fun, and they did 
it their own way and they were themselves... 
you really have to be yourself. When we (The 
Steelers) were in the Super Bowl and had those 
great teams, we did different things. Although 
we are considered a very conservative club, our 
people always went out and had fun... and we 
were ourselves. We ahvays tried to be spon
taneous, we try to let our fans do it for us. Like 
Myron Copes Terrible Towel and the like, that 
was picked up by him and the fans. There are 
many ways to approach the game, and as long 
as you're yourself and it's genuine, it helps the 
game.
THE TARTAN: One final question, ever since 
the team was founded back in 1933, your 
father. Art Rooney, has been the heart of the 
team. What will happen once he is gone ? 
DAN ROONEY: My father, from the beginn
ing and down through today has been the in
spiration for the team. He may not have the best 
business acumen... if he did he would not be 
in the business, this team did not make any 
money from 1933 when it was started until 
1946... yet he stuck with it. He is very peopleoriented... I call him a politician. He thinks like 
a politician; whenever we make a decision he 
always says What are the people going to 
think... he always gives the person the benefit 
of the doubt.* That is the effect that he has had 
on the organization, and it has come right down 
to all levels of the team. Hopefully when he 
leaves we will be able to continue to carry this 
through.
One thing I will say as far as myself is con
cerned is that I am not like him. I really try to 
approach things differently than he does. I do 
things in my own manner. As I told you before
you have to be yourself. The thing that he 
brought here is very, very important. Our foot
ball players know that the Steelers care for them 
as individuals, and it is not that we are taking 
their abilities for granted. They are respected 
and liked as individuals. All of that, my father 
set the tone for, and hopefully the rest of us can 
pick some of it up.
The Steelers may not have had the best 
season this past year, but Pittsburghers and all 
football fans can take pride in knowing that the 
Steelers will always be in good hand> as long 
as Dan Roonev is around.

---------------------------------------------------

!!! FREE !!! 
Valentines Day 
Message Service 
to 
U.S., Canada, and Mexico
Public Service communications has been a traditional responsibility of the Amateur Radio service since 1913. In keeping with this tradition, the CMU Amateur Radio Club is currently sending messages via national radio "traffic" networks to anywhere in Canada, Mexico, the United States (+ possessions) and other countries* around the world. This service is available to the entire campus community.
Possible Applications:
 Valentines Day Greetings Birthday Wishes Personal Messages Other Holiday Greetings
To use this service just send your message via computer mail to AR99@TD. Be sure to include the persons name, address (with zip code), and telephone number (please include area code). Further information can be obtained by reading AR99s plan file.
*as permitted by international regulations.
THE AMATEUR RADIO CLUB IS FUNDED BY STUDENT SENATE
DEBRA ABELL iwTwdermatologist
student discount available 
easily accessible by bus from CMU
3500 Fifth Ave, Suite 102, Oakland 
682-0616
MasterCard, Visa accepted 
Call appointment
STACK'n TOTE
STORAGE CONTAINERS
 Designer colors  Industrial strength
 Heavy duty plastic  In 2 sizes/6 colors
Create a storage wall 
Perfect for books, toys, 
clothing, etc.
#3024 (19"Lx13"Wx11"H)
$15/set of 3 + $3/set 
shipping charges 
($18/set total)
#3016 (131/"Lx131/"Wx11 "H)
$10/set of 3 + $3/set 
shipping charges 
($13/set total)
COLORS:RED, WHITE, BLACK, BLUE YELLOW &MARBLQZED
TMV Industries
PO. Box 35 
Shrewsbury, NJ 07701
NAME ...- j
AnnRFSS 1
CITYSTATF ZIP |
Itpm # QuantityColnr(R) 1
? Check enclosed
(sold in sets of 3 only)
Total Payment(includes S3/set shipping & handling) .
residents ad0 sales tax, .,.012 j
Tdnrfimri TiTii7T i
In fact, well even pay you more than $600 a month while you attend. Thats in 
addition to paying for your tuition, required books and fees.
Its all part of the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program. 
And here is how it works!
If youre selected for a Physicians Scholarshipfrom the Army, Navy, or Air 
Forceyoure commissioned as an officer in the Reserves.
While youre in school, youll serve 45 days a year on active duty, gaining 
valuable medical experience. After graduation, you will serve three or more 
years, the length depending on the requirements of the Service selected and 
years of scholarship assistance received.
As an Armed Forces physician youll receive officers pay and benefits, and 
enjoy the advantages of working regular hours. Youll also see a diversity of 
patients and have opportunities to use sophisticated medical technology.
But most important, while you're in medical school well help pay the bills. 
For more information, send in this coupon. There is no obligation.
VEQI fell me how the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program T COa can help pay my medical school expenses. I understand there is no obligation.Mail this coupon to: Armed Forces Scholarships, PO. Box 2865 Huntington Station, NY 11746-2102 
OwcfcuptothrMtOARMY DNAVY ? AIR FORCE 
Reuse print an mformefcon dsvly and completely
9008
.?Male ?Female
.Apt#.
c*y-State--ZipL
RioneLSex; Sec No.
Birth ][
Field of Study-Graduation [ Date Im
The ntormeson you voluntarily provide wM be used lor recnMng purposes only, can respond to your request (Authority 10U5C 503)The more complete it is the better we
3M Head Cleaning Diskette
Inside specially marked 10-pack boxes 
of 5W' 3M diskettes
Sampler contains 3 free 
cleanings
Safe and easy to use 
 Helps prevent data loss
Plus a S2.00 rebate coupon for your next 
purchase of 3M head cleaning diskette kits.
 j
FIzwMM CC 
F19.00 ds
CMU 
Computer Store
f3MCon*ny 1
One less thine to worry about"*

---------------------------------------------------

February 11, 1986The TartanPage 25
A Library Forgotten: Braddock
The first Carnegie library opened in Braddock, Pa., in 1889.
The main reading room of the Braddock, Pa. Carnegie library.
By KEITH LHER
Tartan Stajfivriter
The idled Edgar Thompson Works looms 
ominously over the economically depressed 
town of Braddock. Unemployment, divorce and 
suicide statistics give you the feeling for what 
has happened to Braddock. But only by walk
ing down its main street do you realize the full 
impact of the closing of the main steel facilities 
on this town. The shops and taverns which are 
still open display signs advertising unemploy
ment sales or warnings about the penalties for 
armed robbery.
Braddock was not always like this. In fact, for 
almost a century Braddock was a bustling, pro
sperous town. During the 1920s, before the 
age of the enclosed shopping mall, the Brad
dock Chamber of Commerce advertised the 
town as the shopping center to the steel valley.
Like many steel towns in the Pittsburgh area, 
Braddocks prosperity was founded on Andrew 
Carnegies steel empire. In fact, Braddock 
became the site of the first mass-production, 
steel facility in 1875.
However, steel was not the only thing that 
Carnegie brought to Braddock. After amassing 
a fortune of 333 million dollars, Carnegie decid
ed to give most of it away for the improvement 
of mankind. Some of this money went to buy 
thousands of organs for churches around the 
world, or toward the founding of the Carnegie 
Endowment for Peace.
However, Carnegies most well known philan
thropic project was the erection of libraries 
across the United States and around the world. 
In 1889, Braddock became the site for the first 
Carnegie Library, and thus started the Carnegie 
Library Movement. At the librarys dedication 
Carnegie had these words to say: The library 
is built to last, and perhaps it may remind those 
generations that are to come that the duties of 
capital toward labour, even in this age, were not 
altogether forgotten.
Although Carnegie and other middle-class 
reformers intended the library to be a place for 
worker self-education, its rapidly expanding 
facilities were used for many other purposes. 
When today we hear the word library most of 
us think of a place for research and quiet study. 
Braddock Library had these facilities, of course, 
but it also had much more. The library also had
a swimming pool, boxer training ring (at which 
the 1920s welter weight champion Frank 
Lowse practiced), gymnasium, and double-lane 
bowling alley. Since their homes were usually 
overcrowded, and they had few other places to 
go, the working-class children of Braddock us
ed the library as a community center.
But this is not the full story. The library also 
had a 1200 person capacity, balconied theatrestage area which was used by fraternal societies, 
schools and other local groups to put on a varie
ty of plays, minstrel shows and musicals. The 
excellent acoustics made the theatre a great spot 
for both locally and nationally famous singers.
The library also had large public-bath 
facilities, in the days when few homes had this 
convenience. Roy Stell, one of the tour guides 
at the library, told me that the location was a 
boon to U.S. Steel. Since the showers were loccated across the street rather than in the fac
tories, the company could make workers shower 
on their own time rather than company time.
Like the town, the Carnegie Library of Brad
dock has fallen on hard times. Despite the fact 
that in 1973 the library was put on the National 
Register of Historic Places in Washington D.C, 
one year later the library was closed. Since its 
closing in the 1970s the library has rapidly 
decayed at the hands of vandals, thieves and 
time. The magnificent, old interior is now a 
shambles of rotting floor boards and peeling 
paint. The outside reveals broken windows and 
the entrance, like the entrances to many of 
Braddocks stores, is protected by steel fencing.
However, Colleen Collins (president of the 
Braddocks Field Historical Society), David 
Solomon, and other volunteers are attempting 
to restore the oldest Carnegie Library in 
America. They have estimated that to totally 
restore the building to its original shape it would 
cost over four million dollars. So far, besides 
some private donations, the library has receiv
ed $25,000 from the Heritage Conservation 
and Recreation Service, which was matched by 
Allegheny County. The county has also given 
an additional $22,000. U.S. Steel has donated 
$2,000. Using this money, the volunteers at 
Braddock Library have restored the childrens 
room (which now serves the youth of Braddock), 
and are beginning to restore an adult section 
of the library. Their goal is to substantially
upgrade library service to the community by 
1989, the hundreth anniversary of the library.
The library is located on Braddock Avenue 
and Library Street. Tours are given Saturdays 
from 12:00 to 4:00 p.m. The 61B to Braddock
takes you to within a few blocks of the library'. 
There is also a convenient parking lot right next 
to the library. The library atmosphere is very 
warm. The volunteers are courteous and the 
tour guides informative and informal.
(Q)MonsterMac!
 Up to 2 megs contigous 
memory -1.8meg ramdisk
 25% faster thanFat Mac
 68000 parallel connector
 2 spare EPROM sockets
 120 day warranty 
 Levco dealer
Call 683-6244
KAMQUEST
SYSTEMS
WEBSTER HALL
Webster Hall Apartments 
Finest High Rise in 
Oakland's Cultural Center 
EFF. 1-2 BR
Your suite includes: Weat, A/C, fully 
equipped kitchens,w/w carpeting, 
spacious closets.
Cable TV available 
Off street covered parking available 
Limo & bus at door 
Resident storage space 
Furnished units available 
Weekdays 
9-5621-4132Weekends 
12 4
We feature GM cars like this Chevy Chevette.
Presidential
Budget Cut
Presidents' Day is upon us. And 
you can get in on the celebration 
with National Car Rental. We have 
a whole entourage of comfortable 
GM cars at rates that will fit your 
budget.
You pay for gas used and return 
car to renting location.
Non-discountable rate applies to Chevy Chevette or sim ilar-size car a net is subtect to change without notice. Rates slightly lower for drivers over 25. Specific cars subject to availability. Certain daily minimums apply. Weekend rate available from noon Thursday to Monday. Call for details.
$
2395PER DAY 
WEEKENDS 
150 FREE miles per day. 
Additional mileage 12 per mile.
JW National Car Rental
Carnegie-Mellon deserves National attention*'liUblcat:
261-5500 I 434 Boulevard of the Allies 
682-1444 I 4621 Forbes Avenue (Oakland)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26The TartanFebruary 11, 1986
Seventeen wants you!
NEW YORK, N.Y.  Do you dream of seeing 
your face on the cover of Seventeen? One lucky 
young woman will have that wish come true in 
1986. Seventeen Magazine has just announced 
the launch of its third annual Cover Model Con
test. The winner will be the cover girl on the 
magazine's October 1986 issue;
Midge Richardson, editor-in-chief of Seven
teen explained, Now. with this contest which 
is open to young women across the country, 
Seventeen s editors will have a chance to 
discover new faces that we would not otherwise 
have an opportunity to see. And, she added, 
of course, if the young wofnan who wins the 
contest does have hopes for a modeling career, 
I cant imagine a more exciting way to launch 
your career than with a Seventeen cover.
Hornes is the exclusive headquarters in 
Pennsylvania and parts of Ohio for young 
women who wish to enter the contest. Applica
tions are only available in headquarters stores.
According to Seventeen, the Cover Model 
Contest can provide a valuable career boost to 
voung modeling hopefuls. 1984 winner Rachel
Round trip. Anywhere we go.
This Spring Break, if you and your friends are thinking about heading to the slopes, the beach or just home for a visit, Greyhound* can take you there. For only $99 or less, round trip. From February 15 through April 27, all you do is show us your college student I.D. card when you purchase your ticket. Your ticket will
then be good for travel for 15 days from the date of purchase. So this Spring Break, get a real break. Go anywhere Greyhound goes for $99 or less. For more information, call Greyhound.
Musi present a valid college student I.D. card upon purchase. No other discounts apply. Tickets arenon transfrable and goodfor travel on Greyhound Lines, Inc., and other participating carriers. Certain 
restncttons apply. Otter effective 2/15/86. Offer limir limited. Not valid in Canada
GO GREYHOUND
And leave the driving to us!11th St. & Liberty Ave., 391-2300
Dillman of Warrenton, Virginia, went on to sign 
a modeling contract with The Ford Agency and 
has since been featured in numerous fashion 
magazines and television commercials. Dillman 
is currently featured in a special bridal spread 
in Seventeen s February issue. Three other 
finalists from the 1984 contest also launched 
successful modeling careers in New York. 
Morgan Hill, California teen Chandra Zinn, the 
contest's 1985 winner, is modeling part-time 
in California while completing high school.
In addition to recently discovering these new 
faces, Seventeen has throughout the years been 
an important showcase for many top fashion 
models. Jennifer ONeill, Cheryl Tiegs, Shelly 
Hack, Patti Hansen, Cybill Shepherd, Brooke 
Shields and Phoebe Cates all appeared on the 
magazines cover during the early years of their 
modeling careers.
The nationwide cover model search, detailed 
in the just-released February issue of Seventeen, 
is being coordinated through 22 department 
store groups with more than 450 stores across 
the country.
Seventeen S Cover Model Contest is open to 
all young women between the ages of 13 and 
21. The grand prize winner, in addition to ap
pearing on the October 1986 cover of the 
magazine, will also win a General Motors Pon
tiac Fiero.
Seventeen s editors will select eight finalists 
from all semifinalists entries submitted by the
headquarters stores around the country. 
Finalists will be flown to New York for an allexpense-paid trip that will include hair and 
makeup sessions with New York City stylists and 
photographs taken for the magazine by leading 
fashion photographers. All eight finalists will be 
featured in a special article in the October issue, 
along with the grand prize winners appearance 
on the cover.
C 1986 Greyhound Lines, Inc

---------------------------------------------------

BORED? 
NO FRIENDS? 
EMPTY 
SOUL?
Do You Feel like nobody wants you? 
Rejoice, Features wants you!
Yes, The Tartan is always looking for writers. Imagine the fame and fortune that could be yours. YOUR name in bold print, your exciting life the envy of all. You will be suddenly thrust into to spotlight. Just one weekly article could be your key to the wonderful world of popularity. So call Christy at x4383 or x2111. Do it today. It just might change your life.
WANTED:
Freshman Orientation 
Counselors 
for 1986 orientation
Applications can be picked up at the 
Information Desk or Student Affairs 
and are due by Friday, February 14th.
25% DISCOUNT 
ON AN 
PERSONAL COMPUTER
TO ALL CARNEGIE MELLON
STUDENTS &
FACULTY
GET YOUR HANDS ON THE HOST 
TECHNOLOGICALLY ADVANCED PERSONAL 
COMPUTER IN ITS CLASS 
BY CALLING
BAS I C
COMPUTER
SYSTEMS
(412) 342-5505 COLLECT
9 to 5 M-F
TUTORS WANTED!
The Counseling Center needs 
Chemistry and Calculus tutors for 
walk-in tutoring. 
Pays $3.50/hr. 
Call the Counseling Center
X2922
PREGNANT?
And you didn't mean to be? 
For a tree pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 741-3491. ____
Women's
H*ohh
S*rvk*s
A CARINO
sufDrd
Gyn Checii-Ups
Atoition Services
Free Pregnancy Tests
 Confidential
Counseling
WTWIR-FtwitmW(1113 41-11
SPRINGBREAK
Help us sponsor your Ft. Lauderdale, Daytona or Key West trip and you go for free!
(8001 542 *003 TOI.I. KKKK
Precision
Haircut
onlv
H 3.00
Just-A-Cut
Precision Haircuts custom designed fcr the look you want
Designer 
Perm
only 
8.00
?h a 60^ 
Hair deSgnTh dif1erence 
t0U|s ex<rardin
Complete wrtfi shampoo A blow it yle
onlv*25.00
comptt* withPrecision howcut only
guarantee!
mmmmmmmmmm COUPON
$4.00 OFF HAIRCUT 
EXPIRES 2-28-86 
Regular $14-16
  Mon Fri 9 to 9
Lewis
813 S. Aiken Avenue  Shadyside 
682-4063
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED' 
Great Styles Start at
No Appointments
NOAPPOtsiTMENTNECESSARY
IWttM IHtt COUPONS!GFLS :M&44 
I on the Precision Haircut II Compiete wMh ihompoo A ilyMng |
iFeb- 28. 1986nJ^gi
V?G*IIT HPCTATItnS
PRECISION HARCUTTERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office687-3500

---------------------------------------------------

fu
3 PIZZA PIZZA PIZZA PIZZA
>810 IVY STREET
682-3333
r-ni-r- r\ r Mon.-Sot. 5 PM-1 AMFREE Delivery Sunday 12 pm-12 fu
nS GSdd sIaaF Ne UWS GdIKS
y,30R-5p .POSP m;4&44 rP 
^rPS FfO CSU F KrEsrf brP 
gi33 mu 0WSSGS ,IaaF&
<NN
<NN
<

LARGE $
PIZZA
FREE
iter of Coke 
With Purchase 
Of Large Pizza
N
>
NN
>
Increase your
fT00 walk-in tutoring program 
ach wMk
fee Ceunieflng and Student Development Center In Mofewood Oardent, I Yowet x2f22
Sunday thru thursday 7pm-10pm
:- viy : '  - 
Calculus PH - 126A
Pro I. H. HI
Physics PH -1266
Chemistry PH - 225B
English as a BH - 1356
second language
Economics PH - 2266
Intro to Computing WEH-5415
Financial Accounting PH-226C
Academic Writing Problems BH - 2356
TO ALL NON FUNDED 
ORGANIZATIONS
ALL ORGANIZATIONS RECOGNIZED 
BY THE STUDENT SENATE ARE RE
QUESTED TO
1. OEflAIN A COFY OF THE ORGANIZATIONAL SURVEY FORM 
FROM THE SKIBO INFORMATION DESK.
2. FILL IT OUT COMPLETELY.
3. RETURN IT TO THE STUDENT SENATE MAILBOX AT THE 
SKIBO INFORMATION DESK, WITH A COPY OF THE 
ORGANIZATION'S CURRENT CONSTITUTION, BY 
FEBRUARY 15, 1986.
ANY ORGANIZATION THAT FAILS TO FILL OUT THIS FORM, 
AND RETURN IT BY THE ABOVE DEADLINE, WILL HAVE ITS 
RECOGNITION REVOKED BY THE STUDENT SENATE.
ANY NEW ORGANIZATION WISHING TO BE RECOGNIZED 
AS A NON-FUNDED ORGANIZATION SHOULD ALSO FILL OUT 
THE SURVEY FORM.
PLEASE CONTACT THE FOLLOWING, IF NECESSARY.
Dave Salomon 
Jamal Mukherjee
421-5546
268-4552
Funded, by your Students Activities Fee
Your favorite Wendys, Arbys, 
Kentucky Fried Chicken, etc 
delivered to your dorm. 
Call
687-FOOD
*
5:00 ptm. to Midnite 7 Days a Week. 
Dorms/ Fraternities/Sororities Only
Collegiate Delivery Services, Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

February 11, 1986The TartanPage 29
Free giveaways, not talent lure fans to sports contests
w
By JOHN FRIEDMANNTartan Business Manager
Been to the gym to see hoops recently?
Thought not. If you did go, then you are in a
definite minority. A minority of less than 5%
of the students.
But why go? Neither the mens
nor the womens teams are doing 
spectacularly well. Besides the ad
mission is free. If its free at CMU,
then it certainly cant be worth anything, can it? 
Consider the other inducements to go. At a
CMU basketball game, there are less people 
present than at Hunt library. So its quieter. 
Also, theres less chance of running into peo
ple you want to avoid. Professors. Ex
girl/boyfriends. People you owe money to. The 
gym is the perfect place to hide. No one would 
think of looking for you there.
But the Athletic Department wants to get more 
people at the games. How to do this?
The obvious suggestion is to emulate other, 
more successful teams. Take the Dallas 
Cowboys. Different sport, true, but If it werent 
for halter tops and long legs theyd have about 
as much a following as the Maulers.
What about refreshments? Not to cast stones 
at the popcorn and pop provided by A-Phi-O,
but it just ain t working. If you want to be ma
jor league, you have to fill major league 
stomachs. \ ou need hot dogs, pretzels, french
fries, and that perennial All-American favorite; 
NACHOS. To wash it down, your choice of IC or 
Strohs. '
Lack of fans at a recent basketball game
Give stuff away, too. Free admission isnt 
enough. People have to come home with more 
than they left with, except money. Cap night. 
Mug night. Muggers night. Gym bag night. 
Sports bag night. Bag lady night. Photocard 
night. Dirty photo night. All viable giveaways.
Dont give away money. It doesn t 
buy as much as it used to. Give away something 
that everyone at CMU can use. Disks. Nobody 
on this campus will turn down a free disk.
Once you have enticed the fans to the game, 
you have to keep them amused. Not that basket
ball isnt exciting. Just get something to fill the 
dead time. How about a big sign that lights up 
with IN YOUR FACE!!, for every Tartan 
slam dunk? Liven up halftime too. Foul shooting 
contests are old hat. Why not try something dif
ferent, like mudwrestling or breakdancing?
But theres one thing that no team is complete 
without: its own rap song. How can CMU fans 
expect to get motivated without the Tartan Shuf
fle? Get Pete Cwalina out there in front with 
those wraparound sunglasses. Backing him up 
will be Carnegie Mellons answer to the 
Refrigerator: Hart Coleman, the Antenna. Sure 
these boys can hoop, but personality is what 
makes the turnstiles go round.
Sports this week
Mens Basketball
February 10at Marietta College8:00 p.m.
February 12at John Carroll University8:00 p.m.
Womens Basketball
February 12John Carroll UniversityHome7:00 p.m. 
February 15Carlow CollegeHome2:00 p.m. 
Swimming
February 12Washington & Jefferson CollegeHome4:00 p.m.
Fencing
February 11at Indiana University7:00 p.m.
Wanted:
Tartan Sportswriters
Contact: Jill
x4438
The Presidents Distinguished
Lecture Series
presents
Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr. 
(D, Delaware)
3 p.m. 
Thursday, February 13, 1986 
Skibo Ballroom
discussingTerrorism and International Politics: New Directions in 
American Foreign Policy
An opportunity for questions and discussion will follow Senator Bidens talk

---------------------------------------------------

Page 30The TartanFebruary 11, 1986
Hoopsters drop heartbreakers to Hiram, W & J
By JILL DORSON
Tartan Sports Editor
Proving rude hosts, last Saturday, Hiram Col
lege sent the Womens Varsity Basketball Team' 
home with a tough defeat, 69-49.
The opening stanza matched the two squads 
relatively evenly, as the guests answered their 
hosts shot-for-shot. Hiram struck first, but 
freshman Lisa Lightner put her team in the 
game only seconds later.
Possession was never definite, as the teams 
tallied alternately throughout. It was a close 
game at the half, with Hiram leading 32-26 at 
the buzzer.
Freshman Aimee Reber dropped in six for 
her team's cause while classmate Peth Virgin 
pulled down as many rebounds. Hiram, 
however, outdid the Tartans defensively, 
garnering 12 caroms.
The second half found Tartan scoring well 
spread out with the hoopsters fighting down to 
the last minute. Unfortunately, they could only 
come up with 23 tallies, while Hiram bested 
their first period score, dropping in 37.
Field goals proved the guests downfall, as they 
could hit for only 27%. The attempts were 
many, but the baskets few. Free throws, on the 
other hand, kept the squad in the contest, as 
they shot 61% from the line.
Lightner was the only hoopster to break into 
the double figures netting 10 tallies. Virgin was 
close behind scoring nine.
The duo exchanged positions on the defen
sive side, as Virgin led her team grabbing 11 
rebounds while Lightner pulled down seven.
Reber supported the cause, garnering six 
caroms, and offensively teamed with junior 
guard Valerie Sooky to drop in 14 points.
It was nothing short of a heartbreaker, last 
Wednesday night, as the team dropped their 
second Conference game in as many outings, 
this time falling victim to the First Ladies of 
W ashington and Jefferson College. Despite the 
home court advantage, the squad just couldnt
Joy Braxton puts up a basket for the home team.
seem to take hold of the lead, losing 70-64.
The hoopsters were up for this one, as they 
came out running in the first half. The contest 
was up for grabs, as each team took the lead 
but neither squad dominated. Shot for shot, the 
visitors matched their hosts, eventualy out-doing 
them, 33-32 at the half.
Scoring was spread out for the Tartans, as 
freshman star Beth Virgin dominated the scene 
under the net, while classmate Lisa Lighter hit 
from the floor consistently. The duo tallied 10
PAYS OFF.
Step Out Of Camp With 
An ROTC Scholarship.
Last year Army ROTC awarded over 450 scholarships to 
college students who successfully completed the six week 
Basic Camp at Fort Knox, Kentucky.
Competition for these scholarships was keen. Winners had 
to prove that they possessed qualifications to become an ef
fective Army officer. Leadership potential is a very impor
tant factor to be considered for selection.
Army ROTC Scholarships provide for tuition, on campus 
laboratory fees, student activity fees, health fees, transcript 
fee, graduation fee, a flat rate allowance for books and $100 
per month up to ten months each year the scholarship is in 
effect.
Students interested in more information about Army 
ROTC Scholarships should visit the Professor of Military 
Science on their campus.
CONTACT:
Captain Perry Colvin 
B7, Margaret Morrison 
268-2205 or x2196
and eight points, respectively.
Defensively, Virgin pulled down eight re
bounds, while Roseanna Neupauer turned 
The teams stayed nose and nose throughout
the second stanza. The sensational combination 
of Neupauer and Lightner sparked several of
fensive plays.
With 11:10 left to play, the hoopsters were
up by one, the biggest lead they would see for 
the remainder of the contest. The First Ladies 
capitalized on several Tartan attempts to take 
the lead at the line. Though the visitors con
nected on only 56% of their foul shots, the 
opportunities were numerous.
About midway through the half, Lightner and 
Neupauer combined for two after a Carnegie
Mellon time out. The women were hot at this 
point, as W & J missed a foul shot attempt to 
give Lightner the rebound. The freshman for
ward was fouled, giving her team possession and 
a basket. Carrying the ball down, Neupauer 
passed off to a waiting Patti Sparow whose shot 
was repelled into the hands of Joy Braxton. 
Braxton tossed in two, to make the score 54-52.
At this point Washington and Jefferson had 
a seven point unanswered run. The Tartans 
were able to gain possession on a technical foul, 
with Lightner sinking the foul shot, and the 
hoopsters taking it down for two on an in
bounds. Passing around, freshman Aimee 
Reber eventualy set-up Virgin, outside the key 
who put in a clean bucket.
Just seconds later, Braxton was forced to 
leave the game on her fifth foul, while the 
visitors had a basket on a pot-luck shot, upping 
the score to 65-57.
Lightner brought the ball down for a layup 
to put the squad within killing distance, but the 
attempt was short lived. At the 3:27 mark, 
Reber won a jump ball on a questionable foul, 
while Neupauer brought it down only to be foul
ed. Going two-for-two at the fine, the hoopsters 
were within four.
Under the basket, Neupauer grabbed down 
a rebound and stunned the visitors with fan
cy footwork, and passed off in the key, giving 
captain Nancy Dilulio a perfect shot. Unfor
tunately, W&J answered right back to secure 
the lead and never look back.
The desperate attempts soon turned into 
fouls, and the final score read: Washington and 
Jefferson 70, Carnegie Mellon 64.
Lightner and Virgin led the team garnering 
17 tallies apiece, while Virgin grabbed 10 
caroms as well. Neupauer broke into the dou
ble figures also, contributing 10 points to her 
squads cause. Reber was second in rebounds 
with eight.
The hoopsters will entertain the Blue Streak 
of John Carroll University tomorrow evening, 
in a 7:00 p.m. game. Carlow College will travel 
cross-town Saturday afternoon for a 2:00 p.m. 
tip-off in the Carnegie Mellon gvm.
FORENERiy
W
ON CAMPUS 
TUESDAY 
FEBRUARY 25
Ask your Placement office for details on our upcoming 
campus visit, or see our ad in this paper next lliesday; 
February IS for additional information. LLNL is an equal 
opportunity employer, m/f/h. US. citizenship is required.
(N/eirnoie
P.O.Bo*^0DeP'

---------------------------------------------------

February 11, 1986The TartanPage 31
Mens, womens swim teams fall short of victory
Bv Stew Levine
Tartan Staffwriter
The swimming Tartans had a tough time last 
week, coming up on the short end of a 67-36
decision at Grove City, dropping to a record of 
7-2, 3-1 in the PAC. Overall it wasnt a real 
strong meet for either team, said Coach Don
na Morosky afterwards. Most of the swimmers
had a flat day, but there were some standouts 
for both the men and the women. NCAA Cham
pionship Qualifier Steve Francis won both the 
50 and 100 yard freestyles with times of 21.90
With basketball season well underway, the 
standings have spread out over the past week. 
The Majors Division is the most well-defined, 
with the ATO Wolfpack leading the A side 
at 5-0, while the Skywalkers and Beta-A trail 
behind at 4-1 and 3-1, respectively. On the flip 
side. The Pretty Boys garnered the number one 
spot, while the City Kids and Pika-A are quick
ly gaining.
Moving into the Intermediate Division, the 
*A, B'\ and C Divisions all show ties for 
the top slot. The Alabama Slammers and the 
Crabs dominate the A competition, Kappa 
Sigma-B and Jordan Angels top the charts in 
the B section, and Hubba Hubba and the 
Yanks hold the blue ribbon for the C league. 
All teams are at 2-0.
Betas Woooglin 5 and the Touring Machine 
posted the highest records in the entire division 
at 3-0, while they also share the lead in the D 
category. The Sudsuckers are also undefeated 
on the D side.
Busters Highmen top all competition in the 
.-*E Division, followed closely by both the 
Grads and the Conglomeration. Three teams re
main undefeated in the F section, as Delta 
Upsilon-A, Kappa Sigma-A, and Phi Kappa 
Theta share the wreath.
Finally, in the Minors Division, four teams 
finished out the week at 3-0. TDP leads the 
Maryland Division, the Chiefs took the honors 
in the Pitt section, while KDR and the History 
Grads shared the title on the Georgetown side. 
I The leaders are followed by DTD, Pika-C, and 
Deans List, in each division, respectively.
The Syracuse Division boasts three 
undefeated teams, as DU-A, the ATO Hoseis.
Intramural Report
2-0 record, while the Rat Dogs and CIA are 
close at the leaders heels.
Last, but not least, the Slimeballs topped all 
competition in the Duke Division, with Death 
Game in a threatening second.
ANNOUNCEMENTS:
Floor hockey commissioners have been an
nounced. Majors Commissioner is Rob 
Schiackman (683-3739), and the minor's Com
missioner is Paul Pecora (621-9124 or x6614). 
Games began yesterday, and the IM office asks 
that all teams abide by the following rules:
1) Good sportsmanship
2) Keep sticks below the waist
3)Good officiating
4)Agreement must be signed before 
participation.
Intramural night will be held Thrusday, March 
6, all fall participants are asked to attend. MVP, 
first place, and other awards will be presented.
SPORTS IN SEASON: 
Chess
Commissioner: Bob Rokax8989
Report results of all matches to Bob Roka.
Bowling
Commissioner: Vince Carozza687-8940 
Teams are asked to pay remaining fees to 
Strand Lanes, and verify final standings. 
Congratulations to Delta UpsOons Mark Hagerty and BFJs Jim Gray for the high game of the 
season, with a combined score of 219. Hagerty also garnered the award for high series, with 
a 563.
Team Volleyball
Commissioner: Dee Nyziox4408 
Congratulations to DU. the Minors campion, 
and Theta Xis John Kmetz. who was named
and the ROTC Rangers finished the week MVP. 
lossless. Basketball
Pilam leads the Carolina Division, showing a Commissioners: Majors: Russ Longx4639
J <PI\r- hstitstCO
A,.
~ h blz&btitziifrt) fritz?].
itCOiti&tlOl'T '<7)cfc i L <t nt"
Ti'IT
* ~ 9)V- Hi. iltfe&A RECRUIT U.S.A., INC. *
mCfun gficwti
t /)' < - L "3 b  tz < $ LcnK* U frUlt L
izK.'tm Tl'lt ^ It, ZCDtz i/lUT <T) X T I- x iftHc t- [*! T -S tfc 
 t> b tz l'  ^ a.  L tz SBU* B
 T<75T\ - ? *.V.'$
-'#ApT? H'i'.'L  t
February 19* 
1 and 3 P.M 
Skibo Room 45
1. DATE
2. PLACE
3. 1*3 *A-S4<7)liiBJL
If unable to attend, please call our toll tree number.
4.RECRUIT U S A.. INC.
700 S. Flower St., Suite 3210 
Los Angeles, CA 90017 
Ol 800 325 9759 01 800 423 3387 (In California)
26i30iDRc D&y&-&h R10&
Intermediates: Dom Colangelo-687-6369 
Minors: Pat Carey-x4778 
Womens: Dee Nyzio-x4408 
Intermediates are asked to note the schedule 
change. All leagues, please return game equipt 
ment to the IM equiptment room.
Handball
Commissioner: E. J. Birdyx2214 
Schedules are out and may be picked up in the 
IM office.
Pinochle
Commissioner: Vince Carozza687-8940 
Schedules are out and may be picked up in the 
IM office.
Wrestling
Commissioner: Joe Kiefler687-6964 
Practice sessions: M-W-F 3:30-5:00 pm 
M-W 7:00-9:00 pm 
Saturday 10:00-11:30 am 
ALL SESSIONS WILL BE HELD IN THISTLE 
HALL!! Matches will be held Satufday, March
1, at 9:00 am, in Thistle Hall.
Water Basketball 
Commissioner: NEEDED-anyone interested 
please contact the IM office. Teams MUST pro
vide a certified lifeguard for matches. 
SPORTS IN THE FUTURE:
The following sports will begin on February 20 
Table Tennis (singles and doubles), Call Pool, 
Individual Pool, Co-Rec Badminton, Fou! 
Shooting, and Co-Rec Table Tennis. Each of 
these sports is in need of a commissioner 
Anyone who is interested, please contact the IM 
office.
The next meeting of the Intramural Board wi] 
be held Thursday, February 20, at 12:30 pm 
in the IM office, gym 101.
and 47.29 seconds, respectively. Francis time 
in the 50 set a Grove City pool record. Junior 
Mike Fitzgerald took the 200 individual medley 
with a time of 208.39 seconds, beating his com
petition by 0.30 seconds.
For the women, freshman Francesca Crannell had a personal best time in the 100 
freestyle with a time of 59.50 seconds. In a 
new event, senior co-captain Patty Illig swam 
the 200 backstroke in 242,32 seconds.
Overall, it was a poor showing for the 
Tartans who have to strart looking to the 
PAC Championships in two and one- half weeks 
at John Carroll. Wednesday they take on 
Washington & Jefferson in the final PAC and 
final home meet of the season. The Tartans will 
also be honoring their seniors: Patty Illig, Chris 
Leech, and Dan Urban.________________________
Hart Coleman 
Nets 48 points
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
Hart Colemans hot streak has come at a time 
when the Tartans need it most. With big scorer 
Pete Cwalina sidelined temporarily, and 
Carnegie Mellon driving for the playoffs, the 
burden of leading the Tartan offense has fallen 
on Colemans shoulders
Hart has responded to the challenge ad
mirably, and has played some of the best 
basketball of his life. He has provided the spark 
that the Tartan offense needs in its quest for 
a postseason berth.
Over his last two games, he racked up 48 
points. Also in that pair versus Hiram and 
Washington and Jefferson Coleman grabbed 24 
rebounds. That raises his average to over 21 
points per game over the last eight contests.
Harts defense has also helped the Tartans. 
His seven blocked shots in his last two games, 
six against W&J alone, total one more than the 
rest of the team over the week.
When you get to 
JUBILEE...
JUBtUEE is a conference to be held in the Pittsburgh Hilton. 
February 21-23, 1986, applying the biblical truths of the 
Christian faith to every area of academic endeavor, 
every activity and relationship of life.
For information contact:
Coalition for Christian Outreach 
6740 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15208 
(412) 363-3303
.visit our
Hospitality Suite 
at the 
Pittsburgh Hilton
Saturday, February 22 
7:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
The Barron Suite, Room 2304
Academic Dean Dr. Samuel Logan,
Church History Professor Dr. Richard Gamble 
and Director of Admissions Mr. Justin Tillett 
will be there to meet you with information about 
nSGU^IfGUSP cWSrdrCIKFd yS^IfFPe 
(and with FREE doughnuts and coffee)
nSGU^IfGUSP 
cWSrdrCIKFd 
yS^IfFPe9
We train 
servants of 
Jesus Christ 
to apply God's Word 
to all of life.

EP
nPIUS brP 
RfbrP^FUIrfp
Dr. Samuel T. Logan, Jr 
Academic Dean 
Westminster Theological Seminary 
Box 27009 
Philadelphia, PA 19118 ________________________________________

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan Sports
Undefeated week. . .jrecord, at 9-7
Mens hoop hosts PAC rivals; emerge victorious
By STEW LEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter
February7 1, the Tartans came off a disap
pointing loss to Grove City 67-60. Coach Ander
son afterwards talked to me about the game and 
the season. To him. victories were just a mat
ter of everyones getting their act together
and playing consistently. The Tartans ob
viously listened, winning twice impressively at 
the Skibo Gym: 85-76 over Washington and 
Jefferson on Wednesday*, and 80-70 against 
Hiram on Saturday raising their record to 5-4 
in the PAC and 9-7 overall.
Going into Wednesdays game, the Tartans 
saw their season hanging by a thread, two games 
out play ing one of the league leaders. Their last 
meeting against the Presidents had gone bad
ly. after leading 27-20 in the first half, the Tar
tans shooting became cold eventually losing 
76-50. Furthermore, junior forward Pete 
Cwalina was out because of a fractured fourth 
metatarsal in his right foot.
When the game started. W&J got the first and 
the third baskets, giving them their only two 
leads of the game. Four minutes into the game, 
the Tartans had their first scoring spurt, scor
ing eight unanswered points, capped by the first 
of three Hart Coleman dunks on the night. W ith 
eleven minutes in the first half, CMU was
already up 18-8. Soon after, the Tartans were 
on the move again scoring ten more unanswered 
points in two and a half minutes to go up 32-17. 
Bv the time the half was over, it was 44-25, and 
the fans smelled a rout.
Coach Anderson had said that a key to vic
tory for the Tartans was shooting over 50%. In 
the first half, Carnegie Mellon shot 54% from 
the field compared to Washington and Jeffer
sons 28%. The Tartans led in rebounding 
27-13, led by Daren Moffatts ten, four more 
than his season game high.
The Presidents came out on fire, scoring six 
points in twenty-five seconds to close the gap 
to 44-31. However, at that point the Tartans 
adjusted and rebuilt their lead back up to 20 
with fifteen minutes remaining. From that point 
on the Tartans coasted, W&J made up the gap 
too slowly getting to within five in the final 
minute. But, in the end, Tom Franklin and 
Roger DeVries made key free throws to seal the 
victory7, and the game ended with a Hart Col
eman slam dunk.
WRCT Player of the Game, Hart Coleman 
had an excellent night with a season high 25 
points 12 boards, and three blocked shots. 
Richard Neff had a fantastic game shooting, 
sinking his first seven, finishing 9 of 10 
with 20 points, Daren Moffatt starting for the
Senior forward Richard Neff executes a layup.
Hart Coleman dunks for a quick two.
injured Cwalina also had his best night of the 
season with 14 rebounds and eight points. 
David Bart battled a temperature of 101, to run 
the Tartan offense, and score 14 points himself, 
and Roger DeVries again saw lots of action and 
made the most of it with 12 points and eight 
assists, both in season highs.
Saturday, the Hiram Bulldogs came to town. 
In their first meeting, CMU and Hiram had 
played to a standstill through regulation and one 
overtime, when Rod Swartz took over scoring 
19 of his 38 points in the second overtime, 
leading Hiram to victory. The game was a see
saw battle from the start with eight tie scores 
in the first half and the greatest lead by either 
team four points. A Hart Coleman basket with 
one second left in the first half put the Tartans 
up by four 37-33. The halftime stats showed 
the Bulldog dependence on Rod Swartz who 
had 16 of Hirams 33. It was Tartan domina
tion of the boards that built the lead, CMU led 
in rebounds 24-13, and took 15 more shots 
than Hiram from the field, but only had con
verted two more.
CMU came out smoking in the second half. 
After two quick Rod Swartz baskets tied the 
game at 37, Carnegie Mellon scored the next
12 points to take a commanding 49-37 lead 
with 14:53 remaining. However, as on Wednes
day, the Tartans lost some of the edge and led
by Rod Swartz, the Bulldogs started coming 
back. With 5:37 left, a Rod Swartz jump shot 
tied the game at 62. At that point Hart Coleman 
and Roger DeVries took over, each getting six 
points down the stretch to clinch the victory.
After the Tartans cold spell in the first half, 
they shot like fire in the second, making 18 of 
24, finishing on the game over 50% in shooting 
for the second night in a row.
Hart Coleman had his second 20-plus per
formance of the week, leading the Tartans with 
23 points and 12 rebounds. WRCT Player of 
the Game David Bart added 19 points and nine 
assists. Richard Neff, Daren Moffatt, and Roger 
DeVries all had strong games for CMU. 
Tartan Talk: The mens team travels Wednes
day to Cleveland to take on co-conference 
leader John Carroll. In their last meeting, 
Carnegie Mellon held freshman sensation Craig 
Huffman to just nine points in the victory at 
Skibo Gym. Theyll need to do that again, and 
have Pete Cwalina healthy to sweep the series 
and keep their chances for a PAC Champion
ship alive...David Bart has vastly improved his 
foul shooting from the beginning of the season, 
up until last week he had shot 19 for 40 from 
the fine, since then hes converted 18 of 22...
The Tartans finally seem to have found a third 
guard, illness got Roger DeVries into the line
up two weeks ago against Bethany, and hes 
played a large share of minutes since.
Bowling Green skates past icemen in doubleheader
By PERRY PIERCE
Tartan Staffwriter
The pucksters took two tough losses in last 
weeks action losing both ends of a home and 
home series with Bowling Greens junior varsi
ty, by scores of 9-2 and 7-1. Bowling Greens 
varsity team is a Division I powerhouse, formerly
ranked number one in the nation, until losing five 
of their last six games in the past two weeks. 
The games were a tune up for upcoming games 
with Pitt and other strong teams in the Western 
Pennsylvania Hockey Association.
Saturdays game was held at Mt. Lebanons 
ice arena, where the two teams skated evenly 
for the first few minutes. At about 14:00 in the 
period, though. Bowling Green began to figure 
out the Tartan skating schemes, and were able 
to pepper Tartan goaltender Ron Bonnasso with 
some rifle shots. Almost ten minutes into the 
period, former Bowling Green Varsity player 
Tom Shirky scored, putting Bowling Green up 
by a score of 1-0. This goal followed shots which 
took Bonnasso out of position, as he tried to 
cover thf* puck up unsuccessfully. But that was 
not all. as one minute later, Bowling Greens
Adam Muth scored off a pass from teammate 
Damon Ragusi to make the score 2-0. Before 
the period ended, Bonnasso was unable to stop 
a shot from Jack Kramer, and the Tartans found 
themselves behind early, by a score of 3-0.
The second period was more of the same, as 
Bowling Green added two more goals, to make 
the score 5-0. The Tartans were experimenting 
with new lines, to see what would be a suc
cessful goal-scoring threat. Carnegie Mellon 
found themselves behind in shots as well, as the 
Bowling Green defense only surrendered 13 
shots on goal in the first two periods, while tak
ing 27 of their own on Bonnasso.
As the teams skated on for the third period, 
Carnegie Mellon showed new life, as their 
leading goal producer Greg Timmons scored his 
eighth goal of the year off a pass from Mark 
Licata only a minute and twelve seconds into 
the period. With the score at 5-1, Bowling 
Greens defense tightened, and was able to 
score two more goals in the next three minutes, 
to hold a strong 7-1 lead. At the 5:07 mark of 
the period, the Tartans got a power play oppor
tunity when Bowling Greens Scott Hoyt was
called for a trip. Carnegie Mellon was quick to 
cash in as senior right wing Pat Merchak took 
a pass from Rick Lund and Paul Russo at the 
6:15 mark to make the score 7-2. Both teams 
then began to play very physical hockey, as both 
teams were given three penalties each in the last 
seven minutes of play. But BG was able to cash 
in two more times, to give the Tartans a tough, 
9-2 loss.
Sundays game was much of the same thing, 
as Bowling Greens larger and faster skaters 
were able to hand Carnegie Mellon another loss, 
by the score of 7-1. Tartan goaltender Mark 
Bonnasso stated before the game that his team 
was playing very well.... We [CMUJ all have 
to play a little harder today. Carnegie Mellon 
played a much better game, but so did Bowl
ing Green, and they were still able to skate 
around the Tartan defenses. Camegie Mellon 
also had to go for the puck more, as in the 
previous game they were trying more to hit the 
man. That proved unsuccessful, as Bowling 
Green was able to either shake off Tartan 
defenders, or had another teammate around to 
drop off the puck to.
Carnegie Mellon was shut out for the first two 
periods again, as they were outshot by a count 
of 38-7. In the first two periods Bowling Green 
was able to get out to a 5-0 lead, and extended 
the lead to 7-0 halfway through the third period. 
The game became very physical, and penalties 
were issued at an amazing rate. But the Tar
tans found themselves at a two man advantage 
seven minutes in, and were able to 
capitalize. Bob Koch took a pass from Greg Tim
mons and Mark Licata at the 8:34 mark and 
the Tartans were on the board. Carnegie Mellon 
found Bowling Green's goaltender Tom Deluca 
very fast, and able to protect most net areas. 
What they found difficult was to get shots off 
to his weak spots, because the Bowling Green 
defense made it very hard to get off a well tim
ed shot. They were constantly forcing the Tar
tans to make mistakes which cost them 
scoring opportunities. #.
The Tartans record is now at 7-4, but the? 
are in the thick of the conference standings with 
a 6-1 mark. This week, Carnegie Mellon will 
oe in action tonight versus Gannon at Lake''** 
Ice Palace, starting at 5 o'clock.
