The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 83, Number 1, September 7, 1982.
Disciplinary 
action closes 
ATO for summer
photo by John Stilwell
Ending freshmen orientation on a good note, the August 29 Activities Fair was one of the most successfully attended in recent years. The 
crowd especially enjoyed sitting on the cut, listening to the sounds of George Gees orchestra, the featured band for the fair.
Student Affairs dean retires
Swank becomes full-time English teacher
By MONICA J. CELLIO
|Ji Tartan News Editor
Ive always said I would step down when 
I got to be 60, Earle Swank said of his recent 
resignation as Dean of Student Affairs. 
Swank has held the position since 1956.
Swank, who is being replaced by Dr. Brad 
Walter, will now teach in the English 
Department where he can continue per
sonal contact with the students.
There has been a lot of talk the past few 
years about this, Swank said. In Student 
Affairs, I kept reminding myself erf my age 
: level. This summer, he added, he took a 
leave of absence for personal reasons, which 
was additional pressure on top of the nor
mal load. Last spring Swank and Provost 
Richard Van Horn began to work out 
options together.
According to Swank, there were two
options. He could remain in the administra
tion or he could go back to teaching. Im 
quite comfortable with this, he said. I had 
a full choice in the matter. Dr. Van Horn 
was very helpful. It took lots of time and 
effort for him to let me do what I wanted to 
do.
Ive always considered myself a teacher, 
he added. Students are coming up to me 
now and saying, You look so happy. 
Hes doing what he always loved 
doing, Walter said, and Im eager to do 
new things now. In his year at CMU, Wal
ter has instituted many new programs such 
as scholarship searches and freshman orien
tation. He is currently planning a series of 
forums for freshmen to follow up the orien
tation, seminars on human sexuality, alco
hol, and drugs, and workshops in stress 
management and leadership.
There is a real possibility that I will
become the new dean, Walter said. Im 
acting dean now, but I havent been 
ordained yet. Walter has a background in 
human services and development.
Lois Cox, associate dean of Student 
Affairs, supported Walter for the position. 
There was no competition for the posi
tion, she said. He has a fine background 
for it, and Im very pleased.
Swank added, Its important to let peo
ple try new things. Its too easy to become 
negative when youre in a job as long as I 
was. We have to encourage change. He 
added that Walter will not feel constrained 
to do it the way Swank would have done 
it.
Walter said, Its going to take time for 
the transition. I hope the students will come 
and talk to me. I love working with the 
students; thats why Im here.
By JOANNE SAVIN ELL
Tartan Associate News Editor
The fraternity Alpha Tau Omega was 
closed from June 14 through the end of the 
summer resulting from a decision made by 
the housing office and upheld by the disci
plinary committee.
The decision to close the house was 
prompted by an incident in which the direc
tor of housing, Anthony Martin, saw an 
ATO alumnus throw a botde from the patio 
onto the street. ATO appealed to the disci
plinary committee, which was influenced 
by the long list of disciplinary problems 
with Alpha Tau Omega and members of the 
fraternity . . .and lack of cooperation of the 
house members present on the evening of 
May 29 with Mr. Martin, according to its 
report.
The United Fraternal Organizations 
statement to The Tartan is on page 2.
The fraternity has been on probation 
since August 31, 1982.
The night of May 29, Martin heard glass 
crashing, but saw nothing after walking 
around. Later, he heard more glass break
ing, and while driving through the intersec
tion of JVforewood and Forbes Avenues, saw 
a person on the ATO patio throw some
thing onto the street.
According to Martin, he questioned the 
person on the patio, who had a line of botdes before him, his companion, and several 
people in the living room who had a direct 
view of the patio through the windows, but 
did not receive the name of the person 
throwing the botdes. However, one ATO 
brother who was in the living room at the 
time, said that those inside did not see any
thing, and that Martin did not identify 
himself as director of housing. Martin 
asserted that he identified himself several 
times.
After consultation with the housing office 
staff, Martin decided to close the house for 
the summer, due to the lack of cooperation 
received that night, and the history of prob
lems with ATO. ATO appealed on the basis 
that it was acting as a boardinghouse for the 
continued on page 61981 Tartan wins six college press awards
By MONICA SAFRIN
} Tartan Staffwriter
The Tartan received six awards at the 
 annual Pennsylvania Collegiate Press Asso| ciation (PCPA) conference held at Swarthmore College on April 2-4, 1982. These 
included First Place awards in General 
Column, Photography, and Artwork and 
ITiird Place awards in Public Service, Edi
torial Cartoon, and Artwork.
The First Place award in General 
^ Column went to Alice Alfonsi, Editor-inChief, for her article entided, Bring Back 
the Night, Our Safety, and Our Selves. 
: (October 27, 1981) The article was a com
ment on violent crime.
Bob Leighty, fonner Editor-in-Chief, 
^on the First Place award in Photography 
for his photo spread of Homecoming 81. 
Robert Zusman, former Managing Edi
tor, won the First Place award in Artwork 
for designing and photographing the ad 
Tushache Jeans, which appeared in The 
Natrat (April 1, 1981).
The Third Place award in Public Service 
was awarded to the staff of The Tartan for its 
coverage of the launching of the Columbia 
space shutde. (April 22, 1981)
Mark Levine won the Third Place award 
in Editorial Cartoon for his depiction of a 
student leaving a Financial Aid Office with 
a screw in his back. (September 29, 1981)
Diane Thodos, Art Editor, won the Third 
Place award in Artwork for her design of an 
ad for a lecture on Rape Awareness. 
(November 17, 1981)
An article by Monica Gellio, Tartan News 
Editor, entided The New Dorm: Questions 
Must Be Answered Now was a semi-finalist
in the General News category.
All entries in the PCPA conference are 
judged by professional journalists, advertis
ers, etc. Judging is arranged by the school 
which is hosting the conference.
" next/*
FINANCIAL 
Al O 
OFFICE

---------------------------------------------------

EdHnrial.i
AB film hits home: let's clean "House"
Blutarsky, the outrageous brother 
of Animal House, brandishes his 
sabre at the academic stuffed shirts 
who suspended him, and the crowd 
cheers.
CMUs fraternity/sorority rush is 
once again underway, and the cam
pus is beginning to foam with activ
ity. What irony: that the Activities 
Board should choose the aforementi
oned film to be shown on the cut last 
Sunday.
Nevertheless, the film causes one 
to think. How absurd is it all? All the 
pledge pranks, all the jokes, all the 
cheating?
In looking at our own Greek sys
tem, there is much of which we at 
CMU can be proud. Greek Sing 
benefits charities, Spring Carnival 
provides a community spirit, and the 
Greek parties throughout the year 
are an outlet for socializing.
But there is a not-so-pleasant side 
too.
The United Fraternal Organiza
tion responded to The Tartans 
request for a statement on the ATO 
house being suspended for the 
summer, page one article. In that 
response (below), we at The Tartan 
are supposedly out to get fraternities, 
sororities, and/or anything that 
wears a Greek pledge pin.
We refute this implication. Our 
biggest news projects have involved 
the covering of Greek events. Posi
tive Greek events like the ones menti
oned above have all been publicized 
by this newspaper, and even more 
would have been if only the frats had 
contacted us in dme.
But wait a minute, we sound like 
were getting defensive. We sound 
like the UFO statement.
Heres the scoop. We never used to
publicize the not-so-pleasant side of 
Greek life. The brawls, the vandal
ism between houses, the drunk and 
disorderly arrests, and the small fires 
we heard rumors about were left as 
just that  rumors. Thus the inci
dents fed in on themselves rush after 
rush with each freshman class learn
ing from the older brothers.
But refusing to see a problem does 
not make it go away. It is up to the 
entire CMU community to decide 
whether or not to cheer when Blu
tarsky brandishes his sabre. Maybe if 
we expose some of the garbage 
underneath the color, then someone 
will clean it up before it gets worse.
We believe that fraternities can 
solve these problems from within. If 
only they would stop being so defen
sive about bad publicity, and really 
start enforcing their own rules.
Swank explains his change of role at CMU
IVo the Tartan and, through the Tartan to 
the Campus Community:
As many of you already know, I have 
resigned my appointment as Dean of Stu
dent Affairs and accepted a fulltime faculty 
appointment in the Department of English.
With this letter I should like to express my 
thanks to the generations of students, 
faculty, and staff who have worked with me 
in trying to shape an environment at Carne
gie Tech and, later, Camegie-Mellon, which 
enhanced the opportunities for personal 
growth and development in the college 
community.
I am satisfied that the assistance, coopera
tion, and understanding I received are 
unmatched in any other American 
institution.
Fewer of you know that, from the time I 
first accepted the responsibility as Dean of 
Student Affairs I felt it inappropriate to serve 
beyond the age of sixty in that capacity, 
principally because of a growing reluctance 
to change and an increased concern about 
risk which can hamper the forward move
ment which is always necessary in Student 
Affairs.
A third reason for my feeling that it was 
appropriate to reorient my career was an 
awareness that those of my colleagues
nationally, who most distinguished their 
profession, reoriented their careers. when 
they reached the sixty year mark.
I am grateful to Provost Van Horn for the 
sensitivity and care he gave to offering 
options which would permit me to main
tain a career on the Camegie-Mellon cam
pus and withdraw from the Deanship. Of 
the options available I chose the one which 
provides most opportunity for the stimula
tion which I have gained from my associa
tion with the faculty and with students and
an opportunity for the resumption of per 
sonal growth in a different area.
In one sense I have always had a love' 
affair with the Camegie-Mellon University 
community. Longlasting love affairs 
change their character. I hope all of my 
friends will join me in looking upon this as j 
a change rather than a breaking off of that 
very satisfying relationship with the 
University.
Earle R. SwankDon't blame frats for ATO prank
Official President's column
By Nate Solano
The time has come, the Walrus said, to 
talk of many things... Oh yeah, its a brand 
new year and we have much to discuss, but 
first a word to the freshmen.
^ Dear Freshmen,
jP You dont know who I am 
and frankly shouldnt care, but 
unknown to you we have some
thing in common. We are both rather prone 
to mistakes. I was elected Student Govern
ment President by mistake and you came to 
school here by mistake.
Enough said. Now lets get down to busi
ness. Things are getting bad. The economy 
is in the dumper and education is getting the 
shaft. Furthermore dashboard clocks still 
dont work any better today than they did in 
1967. Okay, humor aside (what little there 
is), some ideas have accumulated over the 
summer and 1 need some response.
1.) A rally (or riot) if tuition does 
go up by the predicted $1200.
Not some lame gathering of 
seven or eight persons but rather 
a thousand or more screaming 
lunatics with full media cover
age (remember Kent State).
2.) Studio wrestling in the gym.
Call me or something if you like or dislike 
the ideas. My new phone number is 687- 
6404. As for office hours, Ill be around Wed
nesday from 3:00 to 5:00 PM and Thursday 
from 7:00 to 9:00 PM. Im really serious 
about getting something done this year (I 
dont know what that thing is but Im 
serious nonetheless) but I need some help. I 
cant do diddly until you tell me what you 
want me to do (thats not quite true but it 
sounds melodramatic). I feel a bit more con
fident this year and thus Im willing to try 
just about anything that people can agree 
on. Considering that only two persons last 
year brought beer to my office hours I have 
got a new idea. Call me for an appointment 
and Ill bring the beer.
This is the official UFO response to the 
ATO incident reported on page 1.
Ed.
Official UFO Statement
The United Fraternal Organization 
firmly believes that fraternities and sororities 
are responsible for the actions of their 
members and guests. However, The Tartan 
and the campus community should be cau
tious before permitting the actions of a few 
members of one fraternity to put down the 
Greek system as a whole. As is usually the 
case, bad occurences tend to be given more 
publicity than good ones.
What is often forgotten is that fraternities 
and sororities should be given credit for the 
positive actions its members provide the 
campus and community. Spring Carnival 
and the Watermelon Bash, the two most 
exciting annual events on campus, would 
be virtually nonexistent without Greek par
ticipation. Greek Sing, as well as numerous 
other fund raisers of individual Greek 
organizations provide thousands of dollars 
and hours to the community and its chairities. All of these activities are made possible 
through the collective individual efforts of 
the fraternities and sororities, most of which 
goes unpublicized.
Finally, we encourage freshmen, who are 
just now forming images of the Greek Sys
tem at CMU, to find out first hand the total 
picture of Greeks and their organizations. 
Rush provides a good opportunity to begin 
these impressions.
Jim Stuart 
President UFO
Todd Whiteside 
President, Council erf Fraternity Presidents
WA
"LM's" parting column written under duress
By Lynne Schatz
Scene: Phone rings. Its Alice Alfonsi, 
fearless Tartan editor. She needs a column 
for first issue, am I interested? Oh my God, I 
think. I havent written a thing all summer, 
except for charge order slips. A 
ijr topic, a topic, my kingdom fora 
topic. . .
HOW I DIDNT SPEND MY 
SUMMER VACATION
I was supposed to lose all my surplus fat 
this summer. That plan was a complete 
bust, as I spent the whole vacation eating 
things that were bad for me, like pasteries
and pizza. I was also supposed to go to ChicagoFest and see everybody and his brother 
in concert but I blew that off too because Id 
had a bad day at work.
I also never made it through the list of 
about 38 novels that I had vowed to read last 
May. Instead I sat around a lot and had 
weird discussions about things like the per
fect marriage, which, by the way, can only 
be achieved when husband and wife have 
separate bathrooms.
I never threw any massive parties (the 
ones with which I threatened my parents) 
and I never bothered to get a suntan or plan
a vacation to Bermuda on a limited budget 
during Christmas break,
I didnt go to the beach, didnt attend any 
fireworks on the 4th of July, and not once 
did I bother to grill bratwurst or sit on a 
lawn chair. What a waste.
Oh well. Im trying to get it together for 
next year, when I promise to get organized, 
lose 15 pounds, and read the remaining 37 
books on my list.
Really.
Lynne Shatz is a sophomore majoring in 
professional/creative writing and will no 
longer be a columnist for The Tartan.
Editor-in-Chief......................................Alice Alfonsi
Managing Editor................................Vince Guinto
Business Manager..........................Louise Crocoll
News Editor...............................   .Monica Cellios
Features Editor....................................... Geof Becker
Entertainment Editor........................Susan Petrie
Sports Editor......................................Gregg Bossier
Photography Editor........................John Stilwell
Typesetting Manager...........................Patti Carlisle
Associate News Editor..............Joanne Savinell
Assoc Photo Editor.............................Gene Yonish
Subscriptions.................................... Kathy Wasch
Classifieds......................................Robert Solomon
Production Staff: Peter Bain, Carol Speranza, and 
Bonnie Topf.
Copyright  1982 by The Tartan. The Editorial Board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo 52, 
(412) 578-2111. 24 hour phone, (412) 578-2113. Mailing 
address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh PA 15213 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

&  V! WWW
Hey you  yes you
Dont just read me
WRITE FOR ME
Join TheErtsn
The Tartan staff orientation will be Wednesday, September 8 
at 8:00 p.m. in Skibo Room 11.
All new people are welcome.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanSeptember 7, 1982
Opening MM stores include a wide range of services
By MONICA J. CELLIO
Tartan News Editor
Most of the long-awaited storefronts in 
the Maigaret Morrison Plaza are near 
completion.
The storefronts include a nautillus called 
the Caber Club, a terminal room, a co-op 
grocery store, a laundry facility, and a stu
dent recreation center. Currently, the termi
nal room is the only storefront that is open, 
but according to Director of Auxilliary Ser
vices Oscar Mayer, two more have been 
promised for this month and the others are 
due shortly after that.
The name "Caber Club came from a 
Scottish Highlands tradition of tossing a 
large pole, a skill which requires great 
strength, said Mayer. The nautillus will con
tain approximately two dozen machines, 
locker rooms, and shower facilities.
The locker rooms and showers were
added at the last minute, Mayer said, which 
was the cause of the delay in opening the 
nautillus. These additions were strongly 
recommended by Ed Fisher, a professor in 
design who was aiding in the planning of 
the nautillus, according to Mayer. The facil
ity is scheduled to open September 24.
Customers will be required to pay a fee 
each time they use the nautillus or to pur
chase a membership. Memberships will be 
available by the month, semester, and aca
demic year. Mayer said, The prices will be 
below the common market prices.
The terminal room, which has been open 
since March, contains over 30 terminals for 
undergraduate use. "This was our top prior
ity, Mayer said. It is a critical expansion. 
The co-op store will be a grocery store run 
by students, similar to Entropy. Mayer does 
not think the stores will compete, as they are 
in different areas and will carry different
products. The co-op will carry fresh produce 
and staples, catering to the students in the 
nearby apartments. Its an alternative to 
going to Squirrel Hill or Oakland, Mayer 
said. The only possible competition, accord
ing to Mayer, is with Food Service.
The co-op is about 90 percent done, 
Mayer said. His concern, however, is that the 
store cannot be opened until a staff is trained 
and supplies are stocked. We cant open it 
in a haphazard manner, he said. The store 
will not be open 24 hours, but will expand 
hours if there is a need.
The laundry room is awaiting final word 
from the contractor, Mayer said, and should 
be open in the near future. The facility will 
be open 24 hours, though it will not be 
staffed for the entire time. For the hours 
when there is no attendant, a lock will be on 
the door which can be opened by inserting a 
valid CMU ID. The lock will respond to the
magnetic code on the card.
According to Mayer, the laundry room 
will be able to provide additional services for 
students, such as allowing students to leave 
their laundry to be done by the attendants. 
Dry cleaning facilities, pick-up and delivery, 
and seasonal services may be added.
The fifth spot will be filled by a rec room 
for students, Mayer said. The room will be 
under the control of the Housing Office and 
will be similar to the rec room in Morewood 
Gardens. The contracters are responsible for 
the basic construction, Mayer added, but the 
details are up to the Housing Office. The 
contracters had promised the rec room 
would be ready yesterday.
The businesses in the storefronts will 
operate on an accounting system similar to 
Vali-Dine in addition to cash. Students can 
open accounts by going to the office in the 
continued on page 6
"ne xet/*n F/ex xampage-xa//y$750000 in prizes!
Now Flex...the fabulous Instant 
Conditioner and Shampoo...invites you 
to be a big wheel on campus! Enter the 
Flex-Rampage Rally Sweepstakes! It's 
easy ..and you may win a 1983 Rampage 
Sport, Dodges personal size pickup.
The rally is a Sports Car Club of America 
Solo II Skill Rally. If you win youll be at 
the wheel of your own Rampage. Or 
win one of hundreds of other prizes.
Go to your participating Flex retailer 
and pick up an entry blank. Just fill it 
out and take it to your participating 
Dodge dealer.
If your name is drawn youll get $50 
cash, a new Rampage on loan to drive 
to the Flex-Rampage Rally in your area 
and a year's supply of Flex Shampoo 
and Conditioner
#$tereoComponent
Systems
Konica
EF-3 CamerasxEVLON
D Mitsubishi AM-FM Car Stereos and Philips Car Speakers
100
REVLON
Implement Sets for Men and Women
See your participating Flex Retail outlets tor official rules and details 
No purchase necessary Void where prohibited licensed drivers only 
Sweepstakes expires September 18,1982
 1982 Revlon Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

September 7, 1982The TartanPage 5
Special Report
Plans for personal computers expected soon
Many important changes will affect the 
students of this university in the near future, 
but to many people those involving compu
ters are taking on a level of importance 
which is unprecedented in the field. In a few 
years, students may see computers or com** puter terminals in all of the dorm rooms, 
and already almost all undergraduates take 
x at least one course in computer 
programming.
This special report covers some of the 
recent changes and future plans involving 
computers on this campus, and some reac
tions to them.
By MONICA J. CELLIO
Tartan News Editor
A decision on the new personal comput
ing plan is expected at the beginning of next 
month, according to Vice Provost Douglas 
Van Houweling.
A network of personal computers and
large systems which will include every 
CMU student is planned for the future, Van 
Houweling said, but he added, "No decision 
has been made at this time regarding a coop
erative effort with a computer vendor to 
develop and implement a personal compu
ter system at CMU. He expects a decision to 
be made in late September or early October.
"I am quite optomistic that we will be 
successful in reaching an agreement, Van 
Houweling said. He did not wish to release 
the names of the companies being consi
dered at this time, but the University is 
speaking with several potential vendors.
Van Houweling expects several 
hundred personal computers to be 
installed over the next two to three years. 
These computers can be used as both inde
pendent units and terminals for the main 
systems now in use. Many things can be 
done better on a personal computer than on 
a large, heavily loaded system, he said.
New computers installed
By MONICA J. CELLIO
Tartan News Editor
TOPSF and a pair of computers for the 
use of introductory computing students 
recently joined the Computation Centers 
collection of computers, and as a result 
accounts for students and faculty have been 
redistributed.
The new DECsystem 20 and two Vax 11- 
780s were installed at the end of August. 
Students and faculty will be distributed 
among the systems based on their colleges 
like last year, but unlike last year they will 
not have secondary accounts on other 
systems.
According to Chuck Augustine, director 
  of User Services in the Computation Center, 
it was easier to have the students on only 
one system each and have their instructors 
on all the undergraduate systems. He 
added that all of the systems have identical 
programs available.
With the addition of a computer and the 
move of introductory computing students to 
their own system, all users will find working 
on the computers easier, Augustine said. 
This is due to the availability of more work
ing space.
The introductory students now have two 
systems to themselves, with a terminal room 
in a remodeled classroom in Wean Hall. 
According to Augustine, this was done to 
provide a better teaching environment.
Phil Miller, coordinator of the introduc
tory courses, added that the new programs 
needed for the courses could not run on the 
computers used in the past. The new system 
doesnt allow a student to make a syntax 
error, he said, so they can spend their time 
learning programming instead of syntax.
Miller expects students to have fewer 
problems on the new system. The system 
will not be as crowded as the others, since 
there are only 40 terminals and only these 
students can access the system. Miller added 
that he feels all students will be able to get 
the eight to twenty hours per week of com
puter time that they need.
Millers only concern was that the transi
tion from the special environment created 
for the course to the main systems might be 
difficult. However, he said, this type of sys
tem has been used at Cornell and the transi
tion there is fine. We dont teach them 
syntax, he said, but they learn it anyway, 
and thats what they need to leam a new 
system.Senate studies opinion
Professors in every college except CFA 
favor the expansion of computing on cam
pus, according to a survey conducted by a 
Student Senate committee.
The Students Committee for the Future 
of Computing was created by Senate Chair 
Ed Novak last spring to examine the Uni
versitys future plans for computing. Over 
the summer, the committee conducted a 
'  faculty survey to assess the popularity of the 
proposals suggested by the administration.
Of the 200 surveys distributed in all 
departments, 57 were returned. According to 
Committee Chair Scott Safier, most of the 
Drofessors were in favor of expanding com
muting to varying degrees. The major excepion, he said, was the associate head of the 
Irama department, who felt that the 50 stulents in his department would have no use 
or computers.
The University suggested that they 
ould use computers to memorize scnpts, 
afier said, "but the way they memorize 
zripts is to walk around the room with 
lem and act out the parts. You cant use a 
_omputer for that; its a little too 
cumbersome.
ITie committee agrees that computing 
should be expanded, but objects to a raise in 
tuition to cover it. The money should come
from private individuals, industry, etc., 
Safier said. In addition, the committee feels 
that students should not be required to pur
chase the personal computers, a possibility 
which has been discussed in the past.
The rest of the committee consisted of 
Alexandra Kavoulakis (CIT), Steve Paff 
(MCS), Joe Caret to (MCS), Nate Solano 
(AMS), Tom Wood (CFA), Neal Friedman 
(CIT), and Monica Cellio (H&SS).
These include most editing, text processing, 
and programming.
Next fall Van Houweling expects to see a 
substantial number of these computers on 
campus to begin the transition to the net
work. This transition should be complete by 
the fall of 1985, he added.
There will be a link for the network in 
every room on campus, Van Houweling 
said, including dorm rooms and offices as 
well as the homes of students who live in 
Pittsburgh. The number of actual compu
ters which will be available is not yet 
known. It may be one per student or one
per five students, he said. We dont know 
yet.
To the student, the network will act like 
a huge time-sharing system, Van Hou
weling said. However, the system will not be 
affected by the number of other people 
logged in, as the current system is.
No decision has been made yet on the 
method of financing the venture. If the 
University decides that all students should 
have a computer, Van Houweling said, 
then we will provide means for all stu
dents. There will be no discrimination based 
on financing.
There are ALTERNATIVES 
... TO ABORTION
HOT LINE: 731-2420
Information/counseling 
9 A.M. to 11 P.M. everyday
PREGNANCY TESTING:
908 Penn Ave., Downtown
8-10 AM. MWF, 11 1 P.M. TTHS
391-4706
ATA  Free aid confidential service* far pcpwri women
photo by Todd Prario
Andrew Hudson and Martin Van Allen are hard at work on the computer during the first 
week of school.
PREPARE FORMCAT  LSAT *GM AT SAT-DAT-GRE. CPA
Permanent Centers open days, 
evenings and weekends.
Low hourly cost. Dedicated full
time staff.
Complete TEST-n-TAPESMfacilities 
for review of class lessons and 
supplementary materials.
Small classes taught by skilled 
instructors.
 Opportunity to make up missed 
lessons.
 Voluminous home-study materials 
constantly updated by research
ers expert in their field.
 Opportunity to transfer to and 
continue study at any of our 
over 85 centers.
OTHER COURSES AVAILABLE
GRE PSYCH & BIO  MAT  PCAT  OCAT  VAT  TOEFL 
MSKP  NMB  VQE  ECFMG  FLEX  NOB  NLECall Days Eves & Wepkends
Essex House L12
M
 Corners Center, Negley & Baurr 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206
EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938661 -2772
Tartan Information
Due Dates:Disp/ay ads: "uesday, 5 p.m. Ann*uncements, C/assifieds, Etents: Wednesday, 5 p.m. Letters: Friday, 5 p.m.
Classifieds are $2 for 1-20 words, $4 for 20-50 words, and $8 
for over 50 words.
Display ads are $4.50 per column inch, minumum two 
column inches. Special rates for Senate-recognized group.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanSeptember 7, 1982
Banking machines moved, further changes planned for Skibo
By MONICA J. CELLIO
Tartan News Editor
Many changes have taken place in Skibo 
over the summer, and more are planned for 
the coming year.
Hie Mellon banking machine which was 
across from the Skibo Information Desk has 
been moved downstairs, and a second 
machine has been installed. These machines 
are located in the hall across from the Art 
Store.
According to Byron Falchetti, facilities 
and space planner, CMU is negotiating 
with several banks to fill a third spot. We
havent narrowed it down yet, he said. It 
could be any bank in Pittsburgh.
Falchetti hopes to reinforce the mini
mali atmosphere in the basement of Skibo. 
Weve got the Art Store, Entropy, and the 
banking machines all there together, and 
wed like to move the information services 
down there too, he said.
Falchetti, along with Brad Walter, 
acting dean of Student Affairs, is now con
centrating on the remodeling of the Skibo 
lobby. We want to upgrade the gray matter 
area and put in some furniture or.some
thing, Falchetti said. We will only do this
if the students want it, he added, but he 
feels that this is the current opinion.
Walter added, My feeling is to get rid of it 
and put in a lounge. He added that stu
dents are needed to help plan this.
We need to get some interest in Skibo, 
Walter said, to see that it has some poten
tial. We may revamp the whole thing and 
build a whole student center.
Walter said, however, that vandalism 
could be a problem. Things get destroyed 
too easily, so the students are going to have 
to take responsibility for the space, he said.
CMU Investment Club will teach students the investment process
Jim Fuller replenishes his wallet from the 
Mellon banking machine.
In todays economy, it is important to take decided to take an active part in revitalizing
care of every penny you have. the club.
Therefore, to communicate a better Initially the club was appropriated a very 
understanding of these necessary' invest- generous $5000 by President Cyert. Since
ments, the Investment Club will be resur- then it has accumulated interest in money
photo by Don Starver rected at CMU. market funds. The balance now stands at a
Wayne Cutler and David Gustin have litde over $6000.
The Investment Club will concentrate on 
portfolio management. The $6000 will be 
invested in various markets. Initially the 
club will concentrate on stocks and stock 
options, looking at prospective companies 
from a technical and fundamental stand
point, according to club president Wayne 
Cuder.
From there, said Cuder, well invest in 
mutual funds, treasury bills, and other pro
mising investments.
The main goal of the organization, while 
always striving to increase its overall bal
ance, is to help the students at CMU gain a 
more thorough understanding in money 
management.
Three meetings will be held per month 
with one guest speaker appearing the other 
week. Richard Gasperini, a stockbroker of 
Butcher and Singer, is scheduled to appear on 
October 7.
Many executive positions are still open 
although everyone in the club will take an 
active part in formulating policy deci
sions, said Cuder. It will be informative, 
exciting, challenging, and enjoyable. Invest
ment knowledge is a must for everyone.
The first meeting of the Investment Club 
will be on September 16 in Skibo room 12. 
Cuder urges all interested students to come.,
ATO closed
continued from page 1
summer and was not responsible for actions 
of its residents and guests.
Jeff Rutkowski, fraternity advisor, said 
that fraternities are held responsible during 
the summer for the actions of its guests and 
members, as they are during the year. We 
are going to hold fraternities and sororities a 
lot more responsible for actions that happen  
in and around the house, said Rutkowski.
The action was not condoned by the 
house, said the ATO brother, who attrib
uted the problem to a lack of communica
tion. He added that the closing was harsh 
punishment.
I didnt think we treated the fraternity 
harshly, said Martin. ATO and other fra
ternities are being forewarned that were not 
going to sit idly by if discipline problems 
continue.
 i
Storefronts open
continued from page 4
co-op when it opens. Students will use their 
current ID cards. Mayer said that cards will 
be made for faculty and staff who wish to use 
the stores.
According to Mayer, the cards have two 
major advantages. First, they cut down on 
the security problems caused by cash. 
Second, they will tend to cut down on the 
non-CMU business, since cash will be dis
couraged. Cutting down on the non-CMU 
business is an important operating condi
tion, he added, as the city allowed the stores 
to be placed in a residential area. In fact, 
Mayer is doing his best to disguise the fact 
that there are stores there. Those planters in 
front of the windows are there for a reason, 
he said.

---------------------------------------------------

I
'
CAMPUSSKATE
.........

1
M
sssssssss
THE ALL NEW CAMPUS RAGE
ROLLER SKATING ON THE CUT
Friday, September 10 
2 PM  6 PM 
$1/hr. w/CMU ID
Brought to you by AB Lectures and Special Events
Funded by Activities Fee 
Raindate September 17
Beaming down to CMU 
The Great Bird of the Galaxy 
is coming on September 22
Sponsored by AB Lectures 
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

DAVID
ACOUSTIC
WITH SPECIAL GUESTxICK DANKO
(Formerly with THE BAND)
SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER cplcnap pryy P.M
FLAGSTAFF HILL SCHENLEY PARK 
PITTSBURGH, PA
ADMISSION IS FREE
CONCERT INFORMATION NUMBER: 624-3344 or 578-2107 
FUNDED BY STUDENT ACTIVITY FEE 
RAIN LOCATION: CMU GYMNASIUM
and CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY AB CONCERTS 
stafaor ienwiil biWbdlny ,
AN AFTFRMOnM OF AP.HI ISTir. MI ISIP. \A/ITW

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Finding friends on cross continent ride
Chris Seaman and Mike Del Signore pause for picture on Bike Centennial tour.
By ALICE ALFONSI
Editor-in-Chief
Were 3,000 miles from home, and all we 
have to get back on are bicycles, said Chris 
Seaman to his partner Mike Del Signore.
But they did it.
Averaging 75 miles a day, 22 year old 
Seaman and 20 year old Del Signore con
quered the longest bike trail in the world, 
known as the Bike Centennial.
The trek began in Astoria, Oregon and 
ended in Norfolk, Virginia with Idaho, 
Montana, Wyoming, Colorado, Kansas, 
Missouri, Illinois, and Indiana routed in 
between -- not to mention snow, rain, sleet, 
hail, and coal trucks.
After two months and over 4300 miles of 
pedaling, Seaman and Del Signore did not 
hesitate to ride their Trek 613 and Fuji S12S 
touring bikes across Virginia Beach and into 
the Adantic ocean.
We rode them in until they floated, said 
Seaman. Nothing could stop them, not even 
Seamans flat tire.
I just rode the rim for the last half mile.
Seaman, from North Huntington, is a 
recent graduate of Camegie-Mellon. He is 
studying for a masters in electrical engineer
ing at Rensselaer in Troy, NY.
Del Signore, from McKeesport, is a junior 
studying mechanical engineering at Penn 
State. He and Seaman have been biking 
together for about two years.
Previous trips included an ovemighter to 
Ohiopyle and a four day excursion to Cook 
Forest.
Leaving May 31, right after finals and 
graduation, neither biker had time to, 
physically get in shape for the trip, said 
Seaman.
So they started slowly, doing 40 and 60 
miles the first days. By the end of the trip, 
they were covering over 80 miles per day.
The bicycles held up rather well and 
needed only routine maintenance like the 
changing of flat tires.
Although both men used ten-speed tour
ing bikes, Seaman asserted that such cross
By GEOF BECKER
Tartan Features Editor
Welcome back to Camegie-Mellon Uni
versity, reader: be ye faculty, student, staff, or 
person-at-large Did you have a good 
summer, earn enough money to be happy, 
meet interesting people, do 
interesting things, leam and 
grow and prepare for the fiscal 
academic year? Yes, yes you say, 
allow me to relate this story to you; and do it 
talk, talk, talk.
No, you may say, my summer sucked. In 
that case, well, dont despair as there is 
always the next minute. Like that old adage: 
today is the first day of the rest of your life.
This philosophy, though, inherently has 
one small problem. (Maybe not so small, 
personal experience persuades me that this 
problem can become a mountain before you 
realize a mole is even digging.) In one word 
the problem is procrastination; and, as 
another old adage puts it: never put off til 
tomorrow what you can do today.
One strategy to use when the narcotic 
demon Procrastination begins its riptide 
hold is to keep reflectively rolling with endgoals on mind, if not in it.
CMU, for example, is seldom accused of 
having an idle character. Instead, it describes 
itself and is described by others as being fast 
moving, innovative, on the leading edge, 
revolutionary, and so on.
One thing that we Tartan staffers would 
like to do this year is track the CMU animal
country trips have already been done on 
one-speeds.
You dont need any fancy equipment, 
said Seaman, anyone can do it.
It can be done on 40 or 50 miles a day. It 
just takes a little self-discipline to sit there 
and pump out those miles.
Both Seaman and Del Signore were glad 
they did the trip alone.
Every time we met a big group, said 
Seaman, there seemed to be a lot of 
squabbling.
Although the two admitted arguing at 
times over their pace or who finished the 
peanut butter, they seldom disagreed on 
major decisions like where to sleep or what 
road to take.
Because there were only two of them, it 
was easier to find a place for the night. We 
were able to experience more of the local 
people by ourselves, said Seaman.
The people were incredibly hospitable 
and friendly.
Someone would see you and yell, Hey! 
Need a place to stay? You read about horror
along its many travails and metamorphoses. 
To do this we need people and information. 
Dont be shy, everbody is a Tartan staffer 
and central receiving is in Skibo Room 52, 
phone x2111 and the channels are always 
open.
Speaking of open channels, last week 
Pittsburghs Department of Public Works 
initiated the "City of Pittsburgh Govern
ment Communications Channel. The pro
gram is accessed through Warner Cable 
channel 17 and will distribute information 
concerning activits and services provided 
by city government.
Pittsburgh is an atomic whirl of happen
ings from budding Renaissance II to smol
dering, nearly extinct steel mills that in their 
prime put the city, as well as then Carnegie 
Tech, on the global map.
With the demise of the mills, the citys 
image is changing from smoke grey smel
ling like rotten eggs to a white collar capital 
of corporate headquarters. The transforma
tion is producing great conflicts that are 
erupting in many forums.
Oakland is one nucleus of this actionreaction, and the Tartan will provide as 
much forewarning and hindsight as possi
ble to keep you informed and curious. But 
once again, you the reader must participate 
in the symbiotic process, so give a call or 
stop by for a chat, leave a message on the 
door, put on a different hat. We are you.
stories, but I got great feelings from people 
all across.
Like the time in Fredonia, Kansas when 
the bikers stopped by a private residence to 
watch 4th of July fireworks. The couple 
living there invited them in, giving them 
dinner, a bed for the night, breakfast, and 
even a bagged lunch.
They treated us like long lost relatives, 
said Seaman.
Or the time the young woman in Laiote, 
Kansas tried to sell them casualty insurance 
and ended up buying them breakfast.
Or the time in Elk Garden, Virginia when 
a Methodist minister invited them in for 
dinner and lodging. The minister happened 
to be reconstructing an old three room log 
cabin into a bikers bunkhouse.
Seaman and Del Signore decided to stay 
an extra day to help him. It was a way erf 
paying back all the people who had helped 
us, and a way for us to help future bikers, 
said Seaman.
The finest accomodations the bikers 
received were the result of Seamans finding 
a tick in his leg.
The Indiana doctor who removed the bug 
arranged for the two to stay at St. Meinards 
Abbey and Seminary.
Seaman and Del Signore were not only 
given their own rooms and fed like kings, 
but the next morning one of the brothers 
gave them a grand tour of the wood and 
gold Abbey halls and sent them off with the
best home made bread in the world, accord
ing to Seamans taste buds.
But life on the road was not always so 
pleasant. The traveling dtio spent many 
nights on the cold ground under their tent.
One stormy Idaho evening, they slept on 
the floor of a camp grounds restroom. 
According to Seaman, the camp was a mess. 
And they were not going to pay $4.00 to put 
up a tent in what resembled a cow pasture -- 
chips and all.
The bikers waited until late evening. 
They sneaked into the camp, crammed their 
bikes into the restroom and locked the door.
After biking 70 miles uphill, the tired, 
sore men did not mind using the clean, dry 
restroom floor. But there was something rid
iculous about the situation.
I spent 45 minutes laughing uncontrol
lably at a running urinal, said Seaman.
If not sleeping, or pedaling, the bikers 
were usually eating. More often than not, 
they would have to cook their own dinner 
on the small stove they carried with them.
Cooking on the trip mainly involved 
camouflaging generic macaroni. Seaman 
would cook his mac with cream cheese, car
rots, and beef boullion to make a kind of a 
beef stroganoff, for under $1.
Del Signore chose the Italian version -- 
tomato sauce, oregano, and garlic salt.
For a treat, they would saute fresh vegeta
bles in liquid margarine.
A lot of people gave us food, said Sea
man. The list included squash, com on the 
cob, wheat kernels, and even goats milk.
It restores your faith in the American 
public, said the previously cynical Del Sig
nore, who became so much a part of the 
environment that upon accidentally drop
ping a candy wrapper along a Kansas high
way, the biker turned around and rode back 
to pick it up.
Said Del Signore, I felt guilty.
You didnt see any litter or cigarette butts 
out west, said Seaman.
Going from west to east was a notable 
transition.
The bikers felt that westerners respected 
property a lot more. We could leave our 
bikes without locking them and not have to 
worry about them being stolen, com
mented Seaman.
But as they began to reach the eastern 
U.S., people warned them to lock their 
bicycles.
continued on page 11
Society for Creative Anachronism attracts attention at Activities Fair.
A remedy for apathy

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanSeptember 7, 1982
From graduate to freshman: familiar and new
By ANNE-MERLE BRYANT
Tartan Staffwriter
I arrived at CMU with a carload typical of 
entering freshmen: a wardrobe for all sea
sons, toothbrush, bedding and bike. Antici
pation. A few lingering doubts about being 
here. And more than a tinge of
homesickness.
* I also brought along a govem? ment degree from the College of
William 8c Mary and nearly a years worth of 
experience as a copywriter with an ad 
agency.
A year ago, I would have easily rejected 
any suggestion to return to campus life. I 
entered the workplace with a strong liberal 
arts background, a degree program which is 
encouraged at most Virginia schools. As a 
copywriter dealing with a diverse roster of 
clients-from financial institutions and car 
dealerships, to a gourmet food company 
and a major department store-I quickly 
learned the value of a broad academic base.
Whereas college exposed me to a variety 
of career options, my job helped to clarify 
my career goals. At work, I looked at the art 
directors desk with increasing envy and
decided to integrate my verbal and visual 
interests. Although art and design have been 
lifelong interests of mine, I lacked formal 
training in both areas. Returning to school 
was a well-founded, yet tough decision. 
Learning about Camegie-Mellons fine rep
utation as a profession-oriented design cen
ter ensured me that my decision was both a 
positive and practical one.
At first glance, becoming a freshman for 
the second time seems simpler. As a college 
grad, you are familiar with registration, 
enrollment and the orientation process. 
Banking cards, meal lines and lost I.D. 
cards.
You know the limits on your time: 
twenty-four hours can hold classes and 
study and studios, entertainment, meals and 
some sleep. You understand that classes get 
underway, right away, and that study sche
dules are essential from day one.
As a second-time freshman, you are aware 
of the activities to avoid, yet you have 
another chance to pursue interests that you 
regretted were not in your first college career.
There is a new joy in classroom learning, 
realizing that lectures and labs are merely a
starting point in opening worlds.
However, returning to school with the 
freshman class has its not-so-simple aspects 
as well. Reorientation accompanies Orien
tation. You must adjust to cramped living 
quarters that you thought were long gone.
Your schedule no longer has on-the-job 
hours. You suffer loss of a substantial pay
check and once again accept financial assist
ance from your parents.
During orientation week, you are classed 
continued on page 11Camp experience fun
By PAM SNYDER
Tartan Staffuniter
Slowly, bravely, I climbed the steps of the 
blue-coded bus, clutching my pillow and 
trying to stifle the hiccups that I hadnt been 
able to get rid of since I left home the morn
ing before. So many things had happened in 
the last 24 hours ... I was living in Pitts
burgh, I was headed for Freshman camp, 
and I was so nervous I didnt feel like eating 
for the first time in 18 years.
Two minutes of sitting on a bus full of 
strangers (who I was about to spend the next 
four years with) was all the time it took 
before  started asking those three questions 
that have now become so familiar: Whats 
your name? Where are you from? Whats
your major? Very soon I began to realize 
that we were all feeling the same way. Every
one was really outgoing and friendly, but, 
just when we were starting to feel comforta
ble, we arrived at Camp Lutherlyn and were 
met by a loud, crazy, excited mob  our 
counselors!
It wasnt until about an hour later, after 
we had thrown down our gear, after we had 
been dubbed names like Killer Karen, Sappy 
Sue, and Sidicious Sid in the Name Game, 
and after we had begun to compete in a 
challenging array of ridiculous relay races; 
that we began to realize what we were in for
 a lot of fun, and a great chance to meet 
our classmates! Playing volleyball with fifty 
continued on page 11
mis calculator thinks business. TheTI Student Business Analyst
of the package. You also get 
a book that follows most 
business courses: the Business 
Analyst Guidebook. Business 
professors helped us write it, 
to help you get the most out 
of calculator and classroom.
A powerful combination.
Think business.
With the Student 
Business Analyst.
TheNw spwarofhpaw
If theres one thing undergrad 
business students have always 
needed, this is it: an affordable, 
business-oriented calculator. 
The Student Business Analyst. 
Its built-in business formulas 
let you perform complicated 
finance, accounting and 
statistical functionsthe ones 
that usually require a lot of 
time and a stack of reference 
books, like present and future 
value calculations, amortiza
tions and balloon payments.
It all means you spend less 
time calculating, and more 
time learning. One keystroke 
takes the place of many .
The calculator is just part

---------------------------------------------------

September 7, 1982The TartanPage 11
McClures
15% Discount on carpeting 
(9 x 12 Carpet Only $39.95)
Carpeting
Ask for DAVE GERMAN
1701 E. Carson Street 
(5 Minutes from Oakland) 
381-5140
Paint Supplies
All Styles All colors
Room size rugs, remnents
On the road
USA has friendly faces
Undercover freshman
bptinued from page 10
long students five and six years your jun3r. Looking on, you become very aware of 
3ur past, present and future all in one 
noment; how recendy you were their age 
|nd a newcomer to a campus. How very 
luickly freshmen become upperclassmen, 
yielding a self-confidence and direction that 
often starding. And most importantly, 
how the enure college process is so imporant and necessary a step in promoting a 
bright future.
Camping fun
continued from page 10
kids on a team, passing oranges under our 
chins and toilet paper between our legs, and 
waking up for 7 a.m. Polar Bear Swims: 
we couldnt have avoided meeting each 
even if we had wanted to.
Our camp days were jammed with activifrom campfires to greased watermelon 
We spent a lot of time talking with 
our counselors, square danced with a caller 
the first night and boogied with a disc jockey 
the next, spodighted the talented among us 
in a variety show, tested our creativity and 
vocal chords in a write-and-perform-yourown-song contest, and were even victorious 
in the annual Freshman-Counselor Volley
ball Tournament.
We arrived back on campus on Friday, 
August 27th and still had an entire weekend 
of orientation activities ahead of us. Fresh
man Camp was a fantastic experience, a lot 
fun, a great place to make lasting friend
ships, and a special welcome to CamegieMellon.
I am seeing things for the very first time, 
too. My second chance is a gift. Rarely is a 
student offered an opportunity to concen
trate entirely on a special interest, especially 
along with a few years extra perspective.
How it was
By DAN TOBIAS
Tartan Staffivriter
The Tartan has had an illustrious history 
spanning over 75 years. During this time 
period, much has changed at CMU (forcontinued on page 16
continued from page 9
Trucks and cars were another potential 
problem. Seaman noted that many motor
ists are ignorant of a bicyclists right to use a 
full lane of traffic. Honking and swerving to 
"get bikes off the road, drivers can 
endanger a bikers safety.
Because they were using a well known 
bike route, Seaman and Del Signore 
encountered no major difficulties with 
motorists.
I had been hassled more times in a one 
hour ride home (from CMU to North Hun
tington) than on our entire two month 
trip, said Seaman.
The sight of giant coal trucks while on 
Kentucky and Virginia highways did worry 
the bikers a litde.
So, in hopes of befriending the truckers,
the two placed red, white, and blue stickers 
reading "Coal #1  on the backs of their bicy
cle helmets. It seemed to work.
Neither biker would carry a watch. We 
didnt want to know what time it was, said 
Seaman, or worry about sticking to a 
schedule.
Before the trip, said Del Signore, I was 
always in a rush to do something. Now Im 
more relaxed. Litde things dont bother me 
anymore.
Said Seaman, Things always worked out 
better than our expectations. Since the trip, 
hes convinced, Lifes going to take care of 
itself.
The bikers are planning future trips in 
the Pittsburgh area and to Maine.
In two years, they hope to tour Europe, 
taking (of course) the two-wheel, no-frills 
package deal.
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
For a confidential friend call: 
LIFELINE
Downtown Pgh. 
Beaver County 
Mon Valley 
Butler County
562-0543
843-0505
489-9020
282-1200
COLLEGIATE COUPON
BRING IN COUPON
Procrastinators: want to change your ineffectiveness, self-reproach, and the costs of delay? Another Procrastinators' Workshop, led by psychologists, begins Friday, September 24, 7 to 10 PM (so dont procrastinate). Fight sessions through November 12, $175.00.Call Stephen Linn 486-4073.
TIRED OF NOTE TAKING ? 
RECORD YOUR ..........
The one care package that's two-semesters long.
It's here. A care package that 
doesn't leave a mess, is great for 
your teeth and lasts for the whole 
school year. It's a brand name 
19 color TV from Rentacolor  
specially student priced at $5.29 a 
week when you rent this month.
With Rentacolor's low prices, you'll 
still have plenty of "beer" money. 
After a one-time $25 installation 
fee, our special two-semester rates 
are just $5.29 a week 
($22.95 a month or
rentmcohor
yiBEO CENTER
We make the good things affordable.
$206.55 for a simple 9-month 
lease). Split it with your roommate 
and double your savings. There's 
no down payment or security 
deposit, never a charge for in-dorm 
service or repairs. And no option to 
buy because after tuition, who has 
an extra $500? So call Rentacolor. 
And get the one care package 
that'll never go stale.
You'll want to check out our 
student specials on VCRs, too.
Serving the Greater Metropolitan Area 
275 Curry hollow Rd.
Rft Pittsburgh, PA 15236 
(412) 655-8770/527-3591EHI TIRE COURSE
ONE CASSETTE
WITH OUR XLP RECORDER 
CONTACT 
J W OWENS 421 4641
Allegheny 
Women's Center
Abortions 
Free Pregnancy 
Tests
Related Counseling
Mon.-Fri. 9-5, Sat. 104 
362-2920

---------------------------------------------------

TIME
* *
MACHINE
* *
FRIDAY SEPT. cylcnap
9pm -2am SKIBO BALLROOM
*
?
? ? *
? ?? ?
? * *
?
? ?
^ FUNDED BY ACTIVITIES FEE
? *
? ?
MUSIC BY RISQUE
MOVIE 930 WR 
THE TIME MACHINE
MUSIC BY CHURCH 
STREET
HYPNOTIST 11:30 
REFRESHMENTS

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
hapiro announces new 
rama faculty members
lei Shapiro, head of the CMU drama 
/lafcartment, has announced the formation 
Jwo acting companies among junior and 
|ior drama students and the appointment 
IS sjx new faculty members,
B^osef Yzraely, a visiting professor, is a 
pj lessor at Tel-Aviv University and former 
istic director of Habimah National 
Tiieater of Israel. A 1971 graduate of CMU, 
yj rgeiy will head one of the companies compdsed of student actors, directors and playwrig hts. Shapiro will handle the second 
co npany.
Ronald Roston, a visiting instructor in 
JLng and directing, was associated most 
H ently with the theater program at the 
St ite University of New York at Purchase. 
H;has worked as an associate director of the 
Manhattan Theater Club and the Circle 
Repertory Company and as director, Second 
Company, Repertory Theater of Lincoln
O in ter, and resident director, Westchester 
Regional Theater.
> i Roston has taught acting for a dozen years 
at Circle-in-the-Square, Rutgers and Temuniversities and the American Academy 
Dramatic Arts.
Both Yzraely and Roston will direct 
department productions during the
11 term.
Victoria Santa Cruz, also a visiting profesIr, is an actress and director of the Peruvian 
Rational Folkloric Ballet.
Jerold M. Gray, new technical director, 
is worked in that same position with the 
ittsburgh Public Theater. A graduate of 
florida State University, he was active in 
[lorida theaters, including the Asolo State 
leater in Sarasota. He served as a consul[int to the Broadway Dinner Theater, Jackpnplle, Maples Dinner Theater, Maples 
id the Midnight Sun Dinner Theater, 
Ltlanta.
Gary M. English has been appointed asso
ciate professor of stage design. English, a
graduate of the University of Arizona and 
Northwestern University, worked as an 
associate designer with Associated Theatri
cal Designers, New York City. He was guest 
scenic director for the Brunswick Music 
Theater, Brunswick, Maine, and worked as 
scenic artist on a number of Broadway pro
ductions as well as for TVs Saturday Night 
Live.
Elizabeth Terry, who has been appointed 
a speech instructor, is a graduate of the Uni
versity of Wisconsin and the Los Angeles 
City College Theater Academy. She taught 
speech previously at Illinois State University 
and the Los Angeles City College. She has 
taught stage combat, dialects, verse speak
ing, guitar, juggling, tap and AfroAmerican dance.
Crew getting older
A construction worker takes a break from the 
began in July.
photo by Chuck Hartmann 
renovation of Forbes St. Gallery. The project
"Star Trek": the end of the trekkie era
By JOE NARDONE
Tartan Staffuniter
The crew of the Enterprise set out once 
again in search of new worlds and higher 
profits. And those higher profits will be 
attained as Trekkies will pay anything to 
see their favorite interstellar 
crew just one more time in the 
film Star Trek II. Trekkie devo
tion is second only to that of 
Elvis and Beatles maniacs.
However, in the latest episode to the Star 
Trek epic, fans are deprived the dashing, 
young crew of television fame. Instead, the 
cold reality that Admiral Kirk (William 
Shatner) and his crew have aged sets in. It 
becomes apparent that some younger per
sonnel are needed to replace the prodigal 
crew of the past. With this fact in mind, the 
spaceship sets out on a mere training mis
sion manned by old folks, as well as those 
who are as green as the blood in a vulcans
veins.
Khan, a man from Kirks past, puts a 
quick end to the training mission. Con
demned to live on a harsh desert planet by 
Kirk, Khan managed to escape to plot his 
revenge. Now, in possession of the Federa
tions newest technology, he plots to destroy 
Kirk and his fledging crew.
Many amazing visual effects make the 
ensuing battle scenes very powerful. How
ever, the plot itself appears to be better suited 
for a two-part television show rather than a 
major motion picture.
At the end of the movie the Star Trek fan 
is unnerved at the realization that this movie 
continued on page 14
Garp's world is  different
By SUSAN PETRIE
Tartan Entertainment Editor
Garp bit Bonkie! And with this line, 
Jenny Fields slams the window on the fur
ious owner of a Doberman which has just 
lost its right ear to T.S. Garps teeth ... just 
as she slams the window on any. ^ thing conventional.
The World According to 
Garp would be better entitled
ewlett shows Midwest Printmakers
The Hewlett Gallery at Camegie-Mellon 
niversity will present Midwest Printmaks 82 through Friday, Sept. 17.
-Ihe show will include works by Robert 
urkert, Warrington Colescott, David 
iesbach, Martin Levine and Frances 
yers.
Burkert, a professor at the University of 
isconsin, created a series of Monet mono
tints currendy showing in museums in 
ngland and Scodand. His works are in 
uch collections as the Tate Gallery, Lonlon, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Boston
Museum of Fine Arts and numerous others. 
Burkert was awarded the University of Wis
consin Morris Fromkin grant to research 
F.D.R., W.P.A., and Wisconsin Art of the 
Depression.
Warrington Colescott, who holds the Leo 
Steppat chair in the art department at the 
University of Wisconsin, has taught there 
since 1949. He studied in Paris at Academie 
de la Grand Chaumiere, in England as a 
Fulbright and Guggenheim Fellow. Coles
cott was among the first printmakers to use 
photographic elements in his hand-crafted,
photo by Gene Yonish
This piece is part of the display now at CMUs Hewlett Gallery.
hand-printed works. His techniques are des
cribed in many of the definitive studies of 
contemporary printmaking. His work is 
represented in most American and many 
international print collections.
David Driesbachs prints, which are often 
satiric, frequendy contain a bespectacled, 
top-hatted man looking out at the viewer. 
The artist combines odd elements. He says, 
I enjoy mixing different periods; I will put 
Roman columns in with TV sets and Orien
tal rugs with neon signs. He has had over 
180 one-man shows of paintings and prints 
since 1946, and his work is represented in 
more than 200 public collections.
Martin Levine, who teaches at Northwest
ern University, has works in the collections 
of the Art Institute of Chicago, Brooklyn 
Museum, Carnegie Institute, Boston 
Museum of Fine Arts and the San Francisco 
Museum of Modem Art.
Frances Myers, who holds three degrees 
from the University of Wisconsin, has works 
in the collections of the Victoria and Albert 
Museum, London, the Metropolitan 
Museum of Art and Carnegie Institute. She 
recendy created a dozen aquatints based on
12 buildings by architet Frank Lloyd 
Wright. Falling Water in Ohiopyle is 
among the collection.
The Hewlett Gallery is open to the public 
free of charge from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m., Tues
day to Friday, noon to 4 p.m., Saturday, and 
1 to 4 p.m., Sunday.
The World According to Garps Mother. 
Based on the best-selling novel by John Irv
ing, this film explores the life of a typical 
man bom to an atypical woman.
It all starts when Jenny (Glenn Close) 
decides to have a child. T.S. Garp is named 
after his father  a patient in the hospital 
where his mother worked as a nurse. Garp 
doesnt know his dad as he died immediately 
after Garps conception. That doesnt mat
ter to Jenny; Garp doesnt need a father 
anyway.
The film takes a unique look at people. 
Jennys life is relatively simple, as is Garps, 
until he starts his autobiography. While her 
son pounds away at the typewriter, Jenny 
begins her own biography, A Sexual Sus
pect. Her book is deemed revolutionary; 
Garps manuscript never surfaces.
A Sexual Suspect brings Jenny into all 
kinds of neat things  all tied up in a home 
she starts for women. Some of her housem
ates include a group of protesters whove cut 
out their tongues for the cause of Ellen 
James, an adolescent raped and mutilated; 
and an ex-football player Roberta (excellent 
role played by John Lithgow).
Garp, in the meantime, watches what his 
mother does, but rarely comments one way 
or the other. He is busy getting through 
school, meeting girls, becoming a writer, 
wresding, and turning out normal.
Finding a secure way to exist for Garp 
means marrying a girl from school, Helen 
(Mary Beth Hurt), and becoming a househusband. Helen brings in the money as an 
English professor and Garp continues to 
wiite novels and wash the dishes. They have 
two lovely children and make a sincere 
attempt to live happily ever after.
Only occasional lapses into adultery mar 
otherwise perfect marital bliss. Garp falls 
prey to an oily-skinned babysitter, while 
Helen carries on with a blond student, 
Michael Milton.
Unfortunately, Helens affair comes to an 
abrupt end when Garp (who likes to drive at 
night with no lights) crashes into her lovers 
car. Things probably would have gone all 
continued on page 14

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanSeptember 7, 1982
McDonald Pipe Band
These musicians make piping their bag
By KATHLEEN ROMANIK
Tartan Staffwriier
Hark! What is that enchanting music I 
hear rolling over the hill? Have I been trans
mitted back to fifteenth century Scotland? 
No, its the MacDonald Pipe Band practic
ing in Skibo parking lot. The group, which 
has been together fifteen years, is an out
growth of the now nonexistent Carnegie 
Tech Pipe Band. It consists of nine pipers 
and seven drummers, two of which are 
women, and the musicians include a comaaStar Trek"
continued from page 13
has just shaken the very foundadon of his 
worship. Admiral Kirk is all set to hang up 
his phaser and get married. Kirk is also reu
nited with his own illegitimate son bom 
many moons ago to the woman he now 
wishes to marry.
Spock (still Leonard Nimoy), to some the 
very core erf Star Trek, is exposed to highlevel radiation while rescuing everyone. He 
dies in a touching scene with Kirk and is 
buried on a newly-created planet as a sign of 
hope.
By this point every die-hard in the theatre 
is throwing popcorn at the screen. The end 
of an era? After this film / wanted to cry. Not 
for Captain Spock, but for the whole Trek 
world.
Sure there exist repeats that Star Trek III 
is on its way and that Spock isnt really dead. 
Listen, I saw him die, hes dead, and if they 
bring him back itll be so silly that every fan 
for three parsecs will be insulted. 
The Wrath of Khan may have just turned 
into the Wrath of Raging Trekkies if Star 
Trek IE isnt released soon.
mercial artist, a graphic artist, a high school 
principal, and several students. They prac
tice once a week in Skibo parking lot and 
perform at weddings and parades.
Andrew Watson, who is a high school 
student interested in computer science, has 
been playing bagpipes for a year and a half 
and plays with the band. He says he got 
interested in bagpipes when the man who is 
now his teacher played at his church. He 
says of bagpipes, "I like them a lot  theyre 
interesting to play. A lot erf people like them. 
Also its a challenge; you get a sense of self 
pride.
Dave Olson, who is a commercial artist 
and has been playing for 23 years, says the 
thing he likes best about playing the bag
pipes is all the carousing that goes on after
wards. He says, I started in high school. 
Some friends did it and said why dont you 
try, so I did.
Ron Lupish, who works in the computer 
engineering center at Mellon Institute, says, 
Ive always been fascinated by unusual mus
ical instruments, and when I was a freshmen 
here at Carnegie Tech, I found out they were 
giving free lessons, and I havent been able 
to stop since then. That was 20 years ago.
For someone interested in learning the 
bagpipes, it usually takes six to nine months 
on a practice chanter and then an additional 
year of practicing on the bagpipes before 
becoming good enough to play in a band. 
Lupish says he will be forming a beginners 
class soon and those interested can contact 
him at 578-3379.
Max Peterson, director erf CMU choirs, is 
excited about the 1982-83 season.
Peterson optimistic about CMU choirs
By TOM KOEHLER
Tartan Staffivriter
It really looks terrific! There is an enor
mous amount of new talent and a lot of old 
pros coming back. These are not the com
ments of Chuck Klausing, but erf Max Peter
son, director of Choral Activities at CMU. 
He is speaking erf the two choirs on campus 
this year, the University and Cameron 
Choirs.
The University Choir is a large mixed 
choir of around sixty, although Peterson 
could enlarge the ensemble if singers auditi
oned. The Cameron Choir is a smaller, more 
select group erf forty members. Over half the 
members of both choirs are non-music 
majors.
The Cameron Choir has long been an 
active musical organization at CMU. At one
time it was a student government-sponsored 
activity. But Peterson has transformed it 
into one of the major performing ensembles 
in the music department.
The Choir toured extensively in the East
ern portion erf the United States, appears 
often with the CMU Philharmonic and has 
appeared with the Johnstown Symphony 
and Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestras.
The most recendy scheduled concert will 
be held on October 24 with the Cameron 
Choir performing in the Alumni Concert 
Hall.
In addition to the 1982-83 season, in the
spring the choir will perform with the Pi tts 
burgh Youth Symphony in Karl Orffs Carmina Burana.
Petersons choirs have toured extensively 
in the United States and Europe. He earned 
his bachelors and masters degrees at the 
jUniversity of Iowa, and has done doctoral 
studies at the Cincinnati CollegeConservatory erf Music. He is also in 
demand as an adjudicator, clinician, and 
festival conductor.
With his talents and the talents of the 
students the University and Cameron 
Choirs should have a promising year.
According to Garp. . .
Students get up to 75% 
off on season tickets pay as little as 
$2.71 per concert.
In VIENNA they called it..
.. an agreeably 
tingling adventure, 
a giant success with 
the audience. 
Take part in the Pittsburgh Symphony adventure.Subscribe now!Call (412)392-4821. Season opens Sept. 10.
continued from page 13
right except that Helen and Michael were in 
the car at the time with Helen mouthfully 
manipulating Michaels,  well . . .
To be short, Michael is now without 
something considered vital to most men. 
Helens jaw is injured; Garps tongue is 
damaged; one of the sons lost an eye; and the 
other boy died. The tragedy-stricken parents 
at first dont communicate (it is physically 
impossible) nor do they try.
Eventually, Garp and Helen realize that 
the hurt they feel can only be bearable if they 
share it with each other. It is an emotional 
moment when they finally re-unite and 
their relationship reaches a new, more 
mature plateau.
At this point, the film takes on a more 
somber tone. To the scrutinous movie-goer, 
the purpose of The World According to 
Garp could prove frustrating. But after 
awhile, John Irvings meaning becomes evi
dent: both Garp and his mother are attacked
because they tread heavily on peoples bur
ied fears. Jenny succeeds in being a com
pletely self-sufficient woman thus shaking 
the very foundation of mens corporate cas
tles and is murdered in return  by a man.
Garp, who from childhood has been care
fully observed by an ugly girl named Poo, 
manages to combine happiness and life in 
general. For this reason, Poo sees it necessary 
to plan Garps death; therefore ending her 
own fear that people maybe can live 
happily.
Credit belongs to John Irving for writing 
a monumental novel, to Steve Tesich for 
creating a valuable screenplay, and to the 
director and cast of The World Accordingtto 
Garp.
Robin Williams is tremendously approp
riate for T.S. Garp; he skillfully explores 
and exhibits all of Garps many features as 
well as delivering the Irving message of 
oppression of individuality in society.
This is, of course, according to S. Petrie.
Bnai Britn Hi//e/ intites y*u t* its nign H*/iday sertices and dinnerat tne Jewisn C*mmunity Center, 315 S*utn Be/iefie/d Ate.
Friday September 17
6 p.m. Dinner on the third floor J.GC
7:30 p.m. J.CC. auditorium Erev Rosh Hashanah Services. Please make dinner 
reservations by September 10 call 621-8875.
Saturday, September 18
9:30 a.m. Rosh Hashanah services in J.CC auditorium followed by Kiddush, 
apples, honey, and cakes.
11 a.m. Liberal Services and Kiddush at CMU Wherrett Room, Skibo.
6 p.m. Dinner at Bnai Brith Hillel dining room third floor. Call for reservations 
by Sept. 10.
Sunday, September 19
9:30 a.m. Rosh Hashanah services in J.CC auditorium followed by Kiddush
apples, honey, and cakes.
Sunday, September 26
11 a.m. Liberal Services Wherrett Room, Skibo
5:30 dinner Erev Yom Kippur, 2nd floor J.CC Make reservations by Sept. 20.
5 p.m. Mirnha Services, J.CC auditorium with closing Neilah Services and 
sounding of the Shofar approximately 7:30 p.m.
5 p.m. Break the fast dinner, make reservations by Sept. 20. Call 621-8875.
7:30 p.m. Kol Nidre Services J.CC. auditorium.


---------------------------------------------------

NOW
is the time to join 
WRCT
"ne campus radi* stati*n intites y*u t* an intr*duct*ry meeting Wednesday, Sept. 8 7 p.m. in Skib* r**m 45
Experience' na necesseri*.
Phones: 621-WRCT or 578-2883
Funded by activities fee.
Great Moments in the history of hair
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech, a 
Stone Age plumber, discovers a 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
drain on a routine aqueduct re
pair job. He calls the substance 
hair.
"But we always thought this 
stuff was feathers", insists Kneg, 
his helper.
"Dummy", counters Blech. "If 
this was feathers, we'd be able to
fly like those pteradactyls".
With the discov6ry of hair, pluck
ing salons disappear. Philoso
phers have something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with. No 
appointments required. For gals 
and guys.
PxECISION.HAIxCU" COLOx(ANY LENG"H)
$12.00(WASH-CU"-BLOW S"YLE)
NOAPPOIN"MEN"
PExMS FOx ALL S"YLES 25.00
Mon., Tues., Wed. 10-7 
Thurs., Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
cxFccnmons
PRECSCM HAJRCUTTERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
687-3500 Oakland Post Office
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
*vr   ---f
S"UDEN"S
SAVE UP TO 50%
ON YOUR LONG
DISTANCE CALLS
F*r a free br*cnure tnat answers questi*ns ab*ut MCI, just fi// *ut and send in tne c*up*n *n tne rignt. Or ca// us at 787-8885 between 9 a.m. and 8 p.m. M*nday tnru Friday, and 9 a.m. t* 5 p.m. Saturdays.
MCI
The nations long distance 
phone company.
NAME
ADDRESS. 
CITY______
TELEPHONE NUMBER.
STATEZIP
Please call me after 5:00 p.m. 
MCI Telecommunications Corp. 
BLDG #1, Suite 420 
Campbells Run RD 
Pittsburgh, PA 15276

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanSeptember 7, 1982
Glimpse past as Tartan turns CMU's clock back
continued from pege 11
merly Carnegie Institute of Technology), 
the nation and the world. This column will 
recap some of the news events and other
items featured in the Tartan during this 
week in past school years.
Since the school year started later before 
the mid 1960s, there is no Tartan for this
week in previous years. For this reason, this 
weeks column only covers 5, 10, and 15 
years ago. In future columns you will be 
seeing earlier items, going back as far as 75 
years.
5 YEARS AGO: SEPT. 6,1977 
Auxiliary Services, under the direction of 
Bill Dillon, has announced numerous 
changes for this coming year, ranging from 
the construction of a new dormitory to the 
installation of a campus-wide telephone 
system.
The housing facility, which Dillon 
thinks might be named Margaret Morrison 
Apartments, will be built where some of the 
co-ops once stood.
The scatter system, which Dillon called 
the latest development in institutional food 
service will be inaugurated in both the 
Morewood Gardens and the Skibo Cafe this 
fall. The system calls for an open serving 
area, which means customers will not have 
to wait in lines for their food.
10 YEARS AGO: SEPT. 5, 1972 
Due to the existence of a severe financial 
crisis at CMU, the Bookstore has initiated a 
new price policy effective this semester... A 
new Bookstore policy established by the
administration will allow a 5% patronage 
rebate on the purchase of text books for the 
fall semester.
At a special session held July 17, the 
Executive Committee of the Board of Trus
tees voted to suspend plans for the projected 
Drama building.
15 YEARS AGO: SEPT. 6, 1967 
The Hunt Library announced recently 
that new rates for Xerox copies will go into 
effect on Sept. 11. The charge will be 10<t for 
each exposure for orders presented in per
son. This amount is payable in advance and 
must be accompanied by a completed order 
form.
Skibo party
By DAVID WISLER
Special for the Tartan
Common Grounds is back once againwith a party that will literally launch you 
into another dimension.
So be there, Friday at 9:00 p.m., to expe
rience a new dimension. The party will fill 
up the Skibo Ballroom, Highlander Room, 
and the Wherrett Room, so you cant miss it. 
Remember: Friday, 9 p.m. till 2 a.m.
YOUR BSN IS WORTH AN OFFICER'S COMMISSION INTHEARMY.Y*ur BSN means y*ure a pr*fessi*na/. In tne Army, it a/s* means y*ure an *fficer. Y*u start as a fu//-f/edged member *f *ur medica/ team. Write: Army Nurse Opp*rtunities, P.O. B*x 7713, Burbank, CA 91510.ARMY NURSE CORPS. BE ALL YOU CAN BE.
Get to the answers faster.Witn tne"/'55'IL
the entire formula.
Included is the Calculator Decision'Making Sourcebook.
It makes the process of using 
theTI-55'II even simpler, and 
shows you how to use all the 
power of the calculator.
Get to the answers 
faster. Let a 71-55-11 
show you how.
TheNwspwarofhpaw
Texas Instruments
What you need to tackle the 
higher mathematics of a science 
or engineering curriculum are 
more functionsmore func
tions than a simple slide-rule 
calculator has.
Enter the TI-55-11, with 112 
powerful functions. You can 
work faster and more accurate
ly with theTI-55-11, because it's 
preprogrammed to perform 
complex calculations-like de
finite integrals, linear regression
and hyberbolicsat the touch 
of a button. And it can also be 
programmed to do repetitive 
problems without re-entering

---------------------------------------------------

______________________________Sports.
Football team opens against crosstown rival
The Tartan offense practices its plays in preparation of its season opener against crosstown rival Duquesne. Pho, b' Qluck
New sports info. dir. hired, 
Gerson joins athletic dept
| By PETER KLEIN HANS
 Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU Tartans have a score to settle. 
Last year in their opening game they were 
upset, 27-10, by the Duquesne Dukes under 
driving rains in Three Rivers Stadium. The 
score remained tied, 10-10, for three quarters,
I then the Dukes erupted for 17 points in the 
final frame to put the game away.
The loss proved to be the only disappoint
ment in the year as the Tartans rolled to a
7-1-1 overall record and won the PACchampionship. On Saturday, September 11, the 
Tartans open the 1982 season in the friendly 
confines of Tech Field, looking to avenge 
last years defeat against their crosstown Div
ision III rivals, the Duquesne Dukes.
This will be the third straight year CMU 
will be playing Duquesne, and a bitter 
rivalry has developed, despite the fact that 
the Tartans and the Pukes are not in the
 same league. In the ongoing rivalry between 
the two clubs, Duquesne holds a slight edge, 
five games to four.
Heading the Tartan offensive attack will 
be quarterback Bill Kiselick, now a senior, 
returning from an impressive year in which 
he threw for 904 yards. The lefthander, nick
named "The Snake by his teammates, 
missed the first two games last year with an 
injury, and two years back missed most of 
the season with a broken wrist on his throw
ing hand.
If Kiselick can stay healthy for the entire 
1982 season, chances are good that the Tar
tans will fulfill the expectations recently 
exhibited in a poll of league coaches and 
will repeat as champions in the PAC.
While CMU will be hurt by the loss of 25 
seniors and the return of only six of the 
starting 22 players from last year, the pass
ing of the year should help in certain areas. 
Ross Jicomelli, the brilliant offensive tackle, 
whom last year Coach Klausing called prob
ably the best freshman ever to play at CMU, 
should be even better with his first year of 
college experience behind him.
Jicomelli should be opening the holes for 
the rushing attack to be led by juniors 
Gerard Sansosti, Brad Huwar, and Joe Vasalani. Both Sansosti and Huwar will be star
ters for the first time in their CMU football 
experiences. Vasalani, while listed as a 
backup, should see plenty of action. The 
McKees Rocks native was the PAC scoring 
champion last year and was named to the
Pro football preview
By JEFF BERGMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Well football fans, the 1982 season is 
upon us and hopefully will begin this wee
kend, that is unless the players decide to 
walk out on Saturday night. Anyway, here 
# . are my predictions.
^ ,4s AFC East
^ 1. Miami Dolphins Last year
? Don Shula took a team that
some thought might even finish last and led 
them to a division tide. This year the wizard 
returns with virtually the same lineup that 
includes a tough defense led by Kim 
Bokamper. The keys will be a healthy Tony 
Nathan and resolution of the quarterback 
problem between David Woodley and ace 
reliever Don Strock.
* 2. New York Jets Most prognosticators see
the Jets as the favorite but a harder schedule, 
the loss of center Joe Fields for the begin
ning of the year, many more games on artifi
cial turf, and the probability that the Sack 
Exchange will not repeat last years perfor
mance will cause the Jets to finish in second.
3. Buffalo Bills The Bills are in trouble. 
With offensive standouts Joe Cribbs and 
Jerry Butler holding out, quarterback Joe
first All-Conference team.
Heading the defensive charge for CMU 
will be co-captain linebacker Lee Ferketic 
and Joe Nardone, the only member of the 
defensive line returning from last year. Both 
Ferketic and Nardone were first team AllConference selections last year. CMU will be 
using a variation of the 3-4 defense called the 
50 scheme as its basic defensive 
alignment.
Duquesne, 4-5 last year, has appeared to 
improve over the off-season, if their opening 
game against Grove City on August 1 is any 
indication. The Dukes dominated the con
test both on the ground and through the 
airways. The Dukes main offensive weapon, 
and consequently the man the Tartans are 
most looking to control, is running back 
Pedro Bowman. Despite losing last years 
contest, the Tartans did manage to stop 
Bowman.
The CMU-Duquesne game shapes up as 
one of the most important of the year for the 
Tartans, as they look to assert their supre
macy over their crosstown rivals. A sellout 
crowd is expected at Tech Field to root on 
CMU in their attempt to avenge last years 
loss.
Ferguson is going to have a tough time 
keeping the offense running for the early 
parts of the season. However, the Bills still 
have the talent to take them near the top.
4. New England Patriots Are the Pats as 
bad as they showed last year? With the addi
tion of #1 draft choice Ken Sims, theyll be 
better but nowhere near the top. My predic
tion, Ron Meyer will be another Lou Holtz: 
strictly college.
5. Baltimore Colts Forget em. The pre
season game against the Steelers showed 
their true colors. No defense and no offense 
besides running backs.
AFC Central
1. Cincinatti Bengals Forrest Greggs 
troops showed last year theyre a solid 
squad. If Ken Anderson doesnt get hurt the 
Bengals should have no trouble repeating.
2. Pittsburgh Steelers The Steel Curtain is 
in the last year of their rebuilding phase. If 
the big three (Bradshaw, Swann, and Stal
lworth) dont get hurt and rookie Abercrom
bie comes back from his injury then the 
Steelers will slip in there.
3. Cleveland Browns The Brownies radi
cally changed their lineup around but all
continued on page 18
By RIC MEDROW
Tartan Staffwriter
A former Pitt letter winner has defected to 
CMU, but dont start getting notions of 
championship titles in your head. Bruce 
Gerson is not an all-pro linebacker, but the 
new Sports Information Director at 
Camegie-Mellon.
Gerson replaces three-year man Ron 
Cichowicz as the person responsible for let
ting the community know about the Tartan 
sports teams. However it was not easy land
ing the job, Gerson says.
Gersons story bears remarkable resemb
lance to that of the average American today. 
He graduated from Peabody High School in 
1976. From there he went to the University 
of Pittsburgh for a B. A. in Speech and Com
munications where he was a three-year letterman in baseball, also lettering once in 
basketball.
While at Pitt, Gerson worked an intern
ship with the Sports Information Office. He 
says, I really liked it there, and they thought 
I did a good job. There was lots of action,
and I was doing the things I liked  promo
tion and writing.
However, it was all downhill from there. 
Gerson says, "I thought that after gradua
tion I might get a job at Pitt, but they didnt 
have anything.
Gerson did find a job at Pitt, but he knew 
it would not last. After an eight month posi
tion, it was back to the streets. He sent over 
70 cover letters all over the country and did 
the whole bit. Nothing came of it.
Then something ironic happened, says 
Gerson. Right after I got home from an 
interview, I saw this job in the paper, which 
is unusual. I answered it quickly. Two inter
views later, I got the job.
According to Gerson, Cichowicz did a 
real good job, and hed like to do just as 
well. He says, My main goal is to get the 
best coverage of CMU events I can. We 
deserve space on the sports page.
Gerson does not think the job will be easy. 
He concludes, Its going to be tough to 
compete with teams like the Pirates, Steelers, 
and Panthers. I hope we can do it, and so far 
its not been bad.Chico looks at AFC teams
photo by George Tsao-Wu 
CMUs cross country dynamic duo, John Wessels and Mike Short, get in shape.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanSeptember 7, 1982
Miami, SD, Cincinatti picked to win AFC
continued from page 17
those new flashy linebackers will not solve 
the Browns real problem, an inept defensive 
line. A .500 club at best.
4. Houston Oilers This franchise is in 
trouble. Age, injuries, and holdouts have 
diminished this contender into an alsoran. 
Even Earl cant save this sinking ship.
AFC West
1. Son Diego Chargers Air Coryell should 
run smoothly this season now that the 
Chargers have acquired assorted veterans 
like Tim Fox to play some defense. Dan 
Fouts must also remain healthy.
2. Los Angeles Raiders Every tme G.M. 
A1 Davis is seriously involved in running his 
club like this year, the Raiders perform well. 
Injuries caused their demise last year but 
those players are all back so watch out for 
the Raiders.
3. Kansas City Chiefs Every year under 
Marv Levy the Chiefs improve. That means 
the Chiefs should be at least 10-6 this year. 
Well they aint going nowhere until Levy 
decides who the quarterback is going to be. 
If not, the Chiefs will stumble.
4. Denver Broncos Dan Reeves showed 
himself to be a qualified coach last year but 
it seemed as if everyone in the division has 
improved except for the Broncos. Lack of 
depth will hurt this aging club.
5. Seatle Seahawhs The Hawks showed 
some promise at the end of last year but will 
be hurting because the Jets arent on thier 
schedule.
CHICOS CHOICES
These picks are done without a point
spread because of deadlines. Home teams in 
caps.
GIANTS over Falcons Jint defense has been 
awesome in preseason.
Bears over LIONS Lions impotent without 
Sims.
PACKERS over Rams Pack always wins the 
home opener.
VIKINGS over Bucs Vikes impress fans in 
stadium opener.
SAINTS over Cards St. Louis is having def
ensive problems.
Redskins over EAGLES Skins continue 
from last year.
Raiders over 49ERS A1 Davis boys spoil 
former crosstown rivals opener.
Patriots over COLTS Pats show last years 
stuper bowl was a farce.
Chiefs over BILLS Buffalo is in turmoil. 
BENGALS over Oilers In a cakewalk. 
SEAHAWKS over Browns Zorn picks apart 
the Browns young linebackers. 
BRONCOS over Chargers Revenge for last 
year.
JETS over Dolphins Big play Jet defense 
will win this one in a low scoring affair. 
Steelers over COWBOYS Bradshaw has fun 
with new Cowboy secondary.
IM board getting things underway
The first organizational meeting of the 
1982-1983 Intramural Board will be held 
Thursday, September 9 at 12:30 p.m. in 
Room 104, Gym Building. The meetings 
for the remainder of this school year will be 
held the first and third Thursdays of each 
month. Dave Penz, the 1982-1983 Intramu
ral Board President, encourages all new 
board members and team managers to 
attend these very important Intramural 
Board meetings.
The 1982 intramural golf tournament has 
been tentatively scheduled for Sunday, 
October 3 at 10 a.m. at Schenley Park Golf 
Course. You may enter as an individual or a 
five-person team. Entry forms can be picked 
up in the IM office Room 104 Gym. The 
golf commissioner for this season is Jim 
Borowicz, BTP, 682-5588.
The entries for CMU intramural touch 
football leagues will be due Thursday, Sep
tember 9 at 4:30 p.m. There will be four 
divisions: major league, intermediate 
league, minor league, and women-only 
league. Commissioners are needed for all of 
the above leagues.
Entries must have at least seven names on 
the roster and no more than fifteen names of 
players on each team. A special touch foot
ball rules clinic will be held on Monday, 
September 13 at 4:30 p.m. in the Womens 
Gym. All touch football teams must have a 
representative at this important rules clinic.
Commissioners for the 1982 CMU 
intramural tennis tournament will be Anne 
Witchner, 578-2107, and Dave McKeown, 
578-2626. You must have at least four play
ers, as a match will consist of two singles and
one doubles. A proset of eight games will be 
played with a 12 point tie breaker played for 
8-8 ties. The playoffs will be best of three 
sets. *
All games must be played as scheduled 
and rain outs will be rescheduled at a later 
date. Check the bulletin board at the courts 
and the IM bulletin board in the Gym. IM 
tennis will begin as soon as the tennis court 
repairs are completed.
The following sports are coming up in 
the near future: co-rec volleyball, cross coun
try, water polo and chess. All entries will be 
due September 23 at 4:30 p.m.
For additional information pertaining to 
the meetings or on becoming a commis
sioner, call Dave Penz at Beta Theta Pi, 
681-9836, or Mr. Birdy, Room 104 Gym, 
578-2214.
FOO"BALL SPECIAL
Bring a Tartan or Steeler ticket stub in and receive a 20% discount on all frames. Students must show ID card.
VALLEY OP"ICAL
for all your eyeglass needs 5820 F*rbes Ate.422-2020 upper /ete/ *f Gi/s Squirre/ Hi//
CALL S7-221CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
lassified
terested in delicious home cooked Kosher food? 
Ice your own flexible contract with competie prices at Bnai Brith Hillel 621-8875. 
fessional typing and word processing. Fast, 
ficient, reasonable. Speeches, manuscripts, 
search papers, term papers. 24 hr. service. Satisction guaranteed. For best results call Ms. West 
1-3657.
sale: 26" womens 5-speed blue Murray 
pine bike, with head and tail lights, reflectors, 
r basket. Good condition. $75. Call Sandy at 
311 day or 885-2285 evenings.
or sale: Furniture, TV, air conditioner, typewriI r, stereo, iron, tables, bed, fan, chairs, couch, etc. 
521-1885.
Apartment for rent near Murray Ave. 4 rooms, 
 260/month. Share now, or vacant late SepS mber. 521-1885.
Guitar lessons -- Classical, jazz, pop. 3rd year 
GMU student. H hr-$6; 1 hr - $10. Call Jozsef 
Tfoth, 683-7336.
Furnished room for rent, Oakland area. $140- 
$160/mo. Utilies included. Call 655-1872 after 5 
fim.
Greek folk dancing. Experienced instructor. 12 
wks. beginning Sept. 20, 7-9:30 at U. of Pitts
burgh. Fee $25. Call 624-3005.
Improve your grades! Research catalog - 306 
piges - 10,278 topics. Rush $1.00 to Box 15097C, 
ijos Angeles, CA 90025; (213)477-8226.
Cahns Day Care, 4353 Murray, 422-5781. Now 
u king applications for children. We provide the 
love 8c care as if you were there.
eneral
President Richard M. Cyert will have open 
office hours for students between 3 and 5 p.m., 
in his office, 602 Warner Hall on Monday, 
September 20, 1982. Students who wish to 
meet with the president should telephone his 
office, 578-2200, to set up an appointment. 
Bnai Brith Hillel
Sept. 9 - High Holy Day workshop for all 
students who wish to participate in services 
this year. Begins at noon in the Jewish Com
munity Center. Lunch is free.
Sept. 10 - Shabbat services at 5:30; dinner at 
6:30; reservations needed. All services and 
dinners are held in the Hillel Dining room 
unless otherwise specified. Phone 621-8875. 
Sepl 11 - Coffee House, Cathedral of Learn
ing patio at 9 p.m. Free.
Sept. 12 - 11 a.m. Bagel Brunch for all gradu
ate students. Please make reservations by Sep
tember 10.
CMU Military Veterans meeting. A meeting is 
scheduled to bring together military veterans 
who are faculty, students, or staff at CMU. 
September 29, 7:30 p.m., Skibo Room 12.
club
ident Cyert and Dean Walter will have open 
fice hours for students between 11:00 am and 
12:30 pm in room 12 Skibo on Friday, September 
17. Students who wish to meet and discuss any 
areas of concern or interest related to the UniverIpty should telephone 578-2075 to set up an 
appointment.
 New Poetry Contest. A $1,000 grand prize will be 
j awarded in the upcoming poetry competition 
; sponsored by World of Poetry, a quarterly new; sletter for poets. Poems of all styles and on any 
subject are eligible to compete for the grand prize 
for 99 other cash or merchandise awards, total
ing over $10,000. Says Contest Chairman, JosephE
ellon, We are encouraging poetic talent of 
ery kind, and expect our contest to produce 
exciting discoveries. Rules and official entry 
forms are available from the World of Poetry, 
2431 Stockton Blvd., Dept. D, Sacramento, Cali
fornia, 95817.
inguage Tables: Mesa Redonda, Tuesdays at 
loon, starting Oct. 12; La Table Franaise, Wed'sdays at 11:30, starting Oct. 13; Deutscher 
Itammtisch, Thursdays at noon, starting Oct. 14. 
II tables are held in Morewood Dining Room 
sponsored by the European Studies and Mo 
Language programs. Interested students, 
iculty, and staff are welcome.
Everyone scheduled for a Forbes Street 
Gallery show must attend an organizational 
leeting Thursday, 7:30 p.m., in the High
lander Room. Please bring your $20.00 dep
osit. Attendance is manditory.
The CMU Association for Life will hold a brief 
organizational meeting on Tuesday, September 
7, 1982 at 7:00 p.m. in DH 2105. All persons 
interested in the Pro-Life movement are urged to 
attend.
Dont let this year foil you! Anyone wishing to 
join the varsity fencing team come to our first 
pactice 7:00 p.m. Tuesday, September 7. No 
experience necessary.
CMUPIC. Camegie-Mellon University Prochoice Involvement Committee will hold its first 
meeting Sept. 9 at 8:30 PM in Skibo 45. All those 
interested in Womens reproductive rights and 
related issues are welcome to attend.
workshops
The following workshops will be offered this 
fall by the Counseling and Student Devlopment Center. Please call 578-2922 to register 
and find out where they will be held. 
Speaking of Sexuality: In this workshop, par
ticipants will examine personal and cultural 
issues related to human sexuality by explor
ing sexual values, self-image, relationships, 
and life style. Six sessions, Thursdays, Sep
tember 16 to October 21, hours to be arranged. 
Career Decision Making: In this workshop, 
participants will learn the process for effective 
life planning and career development, with 
focus on identifying priorities, interests, 
skills, work satisfactions, hopes and personal
goals. Six sessions, 4:00-5:00 p.m., Wednes
days, September 22 to October 27.
Managing Stress: This workshop is designed 
to help students cope with academic pres
sures, deadlines, decisions, and other inherent 
stresses associated with being a student, as 
well as find ways to reduce future stress. Four 
sessions, 4:00-6:00 p.m., Thursdays, Sep
tember 23 to October 14.
Sometimes Its Difficult to Even Say Hello: 
This workshop is designed to help students 
who find meeting new people to be a time of 
uncertainty and anxiety-producing. Students 
will have an opportunity to share these feel
ings with others and learn to go beyond an 
awkward beginning. Six Mondays, Sep
tember 20 to November 1 (except October 18), 
4:00-5:30 p.m.
Speedreading: ($50 fee) Brought back by pop
ular demand, this six week course will not 
only improve your reading rate, but will 
increase comprehension as well, and suggest 
ways to improve overall study skills. You 
must preregister and pay fee in advance to be 
assured of a place. Class limit of 30; if interest 
is large enough a second course may be added. 
Thursdays, 7:00-9:00 p.m., September 23 to 
October 28.
Effective Studying: This three-hour work
shop is designed to help you develop more 
effective study habits, including time and 
stress management, motivation, and note tak
ing. One session, Saturday, September 25, 
9:00-12:00 a.m. No need to preregister. 
Taking Tests: This workshop will look at 
ways to improve performance on tests, includ
ing tips on improving memory, strategies for 
approaching different types of exams, and 
ways to prevent psyching yourself out. Two 
sessions, 4:00-5:30 p.m., Tuesdays, October 5 
and 12. No need to preregister.
<V
GYN 
CHECKUPS
ABORTION
SERVICES
FREE
PREGNANCY TESTS
CONFIDENTIAL 
COUNSELING
Womens 
Health 
Services.
625 STANWIX ST 
DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
(412) 562-1900
Pregnant1 And you didnt mean to be?
For a free pregnancy test and confidential 
help, call Birthright at 621-1988.
THE LATEST IN ELECTONIC GAMES / PINBALL MACHINES
Domestics
12 oz. & 16 oi. cans (& quarts)
STROHS*
LOWENBRAU lt.. Dk -bottles
MICHElOB
BUDWEISER*
MILLER
OLD ENGLISH 800*
SCHLITZ MALT*
IRON CITY*
ERLANGERbottles 
GENNESEE 
ROILING ROCK 
SCHMIDTS*
PABST*
SCHLITZ*
PEARL (Texas)bottles 
DOUBLE DARK bottles 
BLATZ 
PIELS
OLD MILWAUKEE 
PINK C H AMP Al E  bottles *
COLT 45- 
MILLER LITE 
MICHElOB LITE 
IRON CITY LIGHT'available in quarts also
FEATURING 22 VARIETIES OF SUBSSte* itaCorned BeefaTunaaTurkey
SANDWICHESHt Endoc k .Cod. Ground Steak.Sausage VealaChuctcaChicken Parmesan
SPECIALTY ITEMSSlenk SubsaFresh Cut French Fries Hot Dogs with choice of 12 condiments Pizza served tilt 3am
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
Serving beer Sunday lpm 2am 
Imports, Cans, Quarts, Draft Pitchers/Mugs 
Your Choice of 6 Droft Beers: 
HEINEKEN.MOLSON ALEeMICHELOB 
STROHSMlllERSCHLITZ MALT 
One different 16 oz. 6 pk 
featured each week: 
STROHSeROtlING ROCKeSCHUTZ 
OLD ENGLISH 500SCHUTZMALT*PABST
-ImportsKC'KSn. 01 BASSAlf t nylon. I HARP IAGfl? IfHimd MOtSON GOlDfN Cur HFlNfMN If. Dt Holln.vlOWFUHPA** G-m...O KFtft Alf Cd.i .Kt..
PIlSNfR U*<JUfU ..............
phoht byJnSiV\ACKfSON StOUt I'-l. OlD VlfNNA lAGfR ' .I SMA .fP ' <<<1.1
st PAunGiei
DOS (GUIS XX 
JOHN COUPAGf Fn)1'" 
WA1NFYS f.HiI.i'id 
ARISRRG F'.fPHANI I 
TARISRFRG ROYA1F DE
CAPI SUFRO DARK D-'"
1SING1AO ..............
HA< KFR PSCHORR G-"
lARAtlS ..............I"
I MURPHY I'*I||."I 
' K)PfR & SON Ausimi 
Fosti R S lAGfR Austri il*
^ Open nam t oeam Sun-Thurs  Bl nam o oeam Fn SatKM cVII Call ApcsTtaa or Apc ccae tnyc Forbes Ave. (Oaklond) 
HOT DOG SHOPS. INC. Pa cepct
SAVE AT ELEK TEK 
ON CALCULATORS
TIRED OFDNAKGIFND
T 5S TI-58C 5 59 I T PC 100C TIPQOG MBAn 59
TI BA3S (*} Tt 55 2dn igff reshmTI-37TI-BA2ri-js-sp
HAND HELO COMPUTERS BY
PC-1500 POCKET COMPUTER 215CE-150 Color printer */cassette rtsr'ace 1754k Memory 558K Memorv 105PC-1211 POCKET COMPUTER 94CE-122 16 digit printer w cassette <rier*ace 64
HEWLETT-PACKARD 
SLIMLINE PROGRAMMABLE 
LCD PROBLEM SOLVERS
HP-11C Scientific........................................75
HP-12C Financial..................................115
HP-15C Scientific (NEW) 100
HP-16C Programmer (NEW]...............115
HP-41 CALCULATOR ANO ENHANCEMENTS
HP-41C 189
HP-41CV 239
Optical Wand.........................95
Card Reader 165
Printer [82143A] 285
HP-IL ACCESSORIES 
HP-IL Module 95
Dig. Cassette Drive 415 
HP-IL Printer 375
Video Interface...................235
Memory Expansion Modules for (HP41C)
Single Mod........................................ 23
Quad Mod...........................................................75
Ext. Funct. Mod 60
Ext. Mem. Mod ..................................... 60
Timer Mod................................................... 6C
(V]
CALL TOLL FREE 800 621-1269
EXCEPT Illinois, Alaska, Hawaii
Access 3'sc our tea too Corporate Ac et Invited.Mastercard or Visa by rna* or onere Maf Casrier s Oec* Money Od Pers Check (2wks to cr i Add $4 00 si tern (AK, Hi, P.O., Canada add SB OO .rat itam) $1 00 ea adflisnpg Sganci Shipments to IL address aoc 6 \ ta> Prices sut>i to cnange WHITE for fraa catalog. ALL ELEK-TEK MDSE. IS BRANO NEW. 1ST QUAL. ANO COMPLETE.
ELEK-TEK,me.
6457 M Uncoin Av , Chicago II 0*45 <00)621-12*9 > (312)677 76*0
"*p N*tcn nasit!
DRAFTING ENGINEERING & ARTIST SUPPLIES
Stacor/Planhold 
DRAWING TABLESA// sty/es, B/W, c*/*r, p/astic *r w**d t*ps, meta/ *r w**d base.
as low as $71.40
Koh-I-Noor 
Staedtler Mars 
Technical Pen Set7 pen set f*r price 4 
4 pen sets less 20%
Mars T-squares24 xeg. 7.95 Top Notch price $5.96
Berol Turquoise 
Pencils & Prismacolor Sets 
less 25%
Artec Lamps  $21.60
Plastic Triangles 
40% Off
Enter the Top Notch Pittsburgh ScenesCOLORING CONTEST
V7DS7V? withr It ML Lj purchase
pick it up at store
TOP NOTCH
ART MATERIALS, INC.819 Penn Atenue (Dwtn.)355-0444

---------------------------------------------------

llweo 1982 RoRv Iechweo .9E2 FRE Del ' cP' ST FREE u,..'VERY F/ST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVF 
. DE; IVLnr FASI DUS8C - "IIVERV \ST FREE r cL' cRY FAST FPPr OELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELiVt 
- DELIVERY C(CT -r.EE DELIVbRY RE I8chAeo FAST FRbt u- 'RY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE OELIVER'
REE nr 'rr EE DELIVERN t ->Sr  :r  DELIVERY FAST FREE DEL... RY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVER
REEr n9TD rr._C DELIVERY F** c -,c. |VERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY F
oT F^ _i,.fVERY FAST FREE DEI " "  '  .(VERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST CPEE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY ,
->T ' _ DELIVERY FAST FREE r~' ' -rty FAST FREE DELIVtF,'' AbT FF- E DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAi
FA? rREE DELIVERY FAST ' RY FAST FREE DELIVER "'Sr F> ~_E DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY 19
AST FREE DEL-- CAST FREE DELIVERY FAb RE. DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST
Y FAST FREE DEl. " ST FREE DELIVERS FAS R{ .DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAS
' FAST FREE DEL' nEE DELIVERY FAST. FF 3E C .IVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST I
RY FAST FREE U. - EE OELIVERY FAST. F. Ec iJVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST
(Y FAST FREE  - DELIVERY FAST FRE 'ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST F
ERY FAST FP DELIVERY FAST FR ~
RY FAST FF r- 'VERY FAST FREF
-RY FAST - IVERY FAST. FRI
>Y FAST F .< RY FAST FREE L
f 1 FAS'. 'ERY FAST FRE
Y AST {y FAST FREE
** F~ RY FAST FRE
O N . v FAST FREE )
y V >Y FAST. FRE
* . FAST FREE 
' rt i FAST FRE .
T -AST FREE 0
- , 1 FAST. FREE
! AST FREF D
R FAST. FR E
'* SI. FR?  D
Y ijTff.EE
ULl .SP3 a
rL REE 
r 'cE D 
S REE 
T EE C 
REE
VERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST f 
*RY FAST FREE DELIVERY FA<5T FF 
/ERY FAST. FREE DELIVE'
R'FAST FREE DELIVr 
-PY- FAST. FREE DELI'.
Y r. ST REE OELiVt 
R . 'S' FREt OELI' -
IVEFUVE
R-i
36 m .
TY F \*
Uo .Ad 
 FAST 
RY FAS 
FAST F 
Y FAST I 
[ -AST. FRi_
EK. FAST FREE OELIVEHY r*_FY F^ST FREE DELIVERY FAST FRbt 
ERY r 4 .f33 Iechweo 1G7Ll 1oel
3" FAb: E Dl "AST FREE D
I FAS. (EE bt ni lAST FREF
ST. ^REE DELIVtPY FAST FREE r 
-AST CREE DELIVERY FAST FRE 
. FAST FPbE DELIVERY FAST FRE RY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAS. F, .* ' :
RY FAST F1"' rF1 :VERY FAST FPEc 'Ff f 
ERY FA E DELIVERY FAST FRFc TifcLI'
RY Ff' 'ELlVERY FA FREE DELi'/E
'ER' DELIVERY *oT. FREE OfcLI\.
RY I 'Pv S7Ll 1oee :echwe
ERY i .^RY FAST FF,r? JELIXRY FAST FHtfc dA8dhweo 1G7L 1o1 O rechwe 
e: . 07L 1o1e :echwu1ls s IecH
 > "  . DELiV
E Cf.
\ r REFr -. -R
S "E
' REI 
ED.3 5 FH E rr.RF HE E r. RE DL i\
~REc D' i 
A EE DELI v F/
c. T *EE DELI. (Y F*.
T >3  : DELIVE" -AST .:F AS  FRFE DELIVE 'FASTD LY\ S.T3R I35V'3TD Ai1;rR' -A.-T. FRE = DELIVERv , sT.Y F \ST FREE DELIVER'' FAS .RY rAST. FREE DELIVE Fi1; ,c.,<i FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST, 
ct-iVERY FAST FREF D>. IVERY FAST FREE OElIVERY FAST FRF' 
.LIVERY FAST FR  EL /ERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY f-*C 
E DELIVERY e*- .IVERY FAST. FREE DEI IVERY ,
DELIVERY rwf FHL^ oti IVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST..
DELIVERY FAST FREE r ELI VERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. F,L DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAbT rFE DELIVE 
REE f'- .IV' Y FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FASI r''
^tFii FAST. FREE DFLIVERY FASt rPF; ' ' vtPY FAST FFiL.IVERY FAST FREE -ELlVERY f 'RY rAST. FREE ' ..IVERY F 
~"i fast FRFAST FRF
Dominos Pizza 
delivers !
T I -tEE Of 
. *ST FREE L 
iY FAST FREE DE
rRE ST. r 
rAST. '
;FiY FAr
OV FA^T
VERY FAST l-n._________vcRY FAST
:RY FAST. FREE DELIVERY F*
Vti c;t pr,cc n'" iR 
/ER ,Y 
1Y
E'iP
.l\
rt " ..u.r
JELiVF-K'.
. OELIVEHV FA 
'- r>- E D(
.'-RY FAST FREE DELIVF 
>Y F%ST. FREE DELIVEr.
-R ST FREE DFLIVER. Y ' .  Dell "RY c
,ARt
FiRt
Fri.
'EE U,CE DELIVER 
>cLi'/ERY FAo.
I
FA^RY f 
ERY F.LIVErLIVE^
ILIVERY IVERY I 
LIVER- VERY 
-IVEF 
VER.IVE /EF 
IVt 
'EP
IVE ' r ' ;cO' "nY FAO'
/ER. '**S1. .E Dl !T L
.IVERY FAS .t-REb rRCt. .IFVERY FAST FREE D ''FI
LIVERY FAST FREr IVERY FAST FREE 
iLIVERV FAST FP'
LIVERY FAST FF'
JELIVERY FASt ri..___ /EHY
ELlVERY F' -------'CRYPA&I. kC ,t .,viLIVERY . '  - -
VERY I 
c. wLIVERY 
-E OELIVERY F 
REE DELIVERY 
1EE DF1 IV'RY f 
. FRrF <i . VER HL: - H
FRE - JE .IVERY c . -ZE DtL.VS.T h.r., Fr-iF Q;L!V r
AST. F, OELIVERY hASi, FREE DFLIVEPY T^3T. w 
AST. Ft. LIVEP'
i fas:. ELI'
A hot delicious pizza is 
just a phone call and less 
than 30 minutes away! 
You never have to leave 
the comfort of home.
Best of all... delivery is 
always free!
You can trust Dominos 
Pizza for a top quality 
nutritious meal and fast, 
friendly service.
Our drivers carry less than
$10.00. Limited delivery area 
1981 Dominos Pizza, Inc.
Fast, Free Delivery
310 N. Craig St. 
Phone: 681-1700
.'ERY FAST FREE DE* '< 
CA?T FREF PE1 :
s UAE2 O .6 U
< FAST Fr .,ZLI\ 
iRY FAS - . DEI 
RY FAST.. *R - vELI' 
VERY FAST FREE DEL 
-/ERY FAST. FREE DELIV 
.LIVERY FAST I REE DEL 
LIVERY FAST FREE DEL'VDELIVERY FAST. FREE DEL. 
DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVci
2 S N 
ONo a
HY FAS'-IVERY . _____l'VERY FAc=
OELIVERY FAbT FREE OELIVERY F*a!. FREE DELIVERY <- -IEE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELi'.rRY
n>. cAST FREE DELIVERY FAST rREE DFi IVERv REE DELIVERY FAST FREE DEL- ZRV
*RY FAST F- :t UELIV.' J. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DEI 
_c DELIVE  f FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DF 
.REE DEI r ^ AST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE "E OELtvtm FAST FREE DEL*' ' AST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE
r r r.cc Studeten Afaid rsfc 
F^ST FRFC nei ivfpy Fr 
FAST -
-E DELIVERY FAST. FREF,-iY FAST 
<Y FAS'1 VERY F 
VERY F' 
i)ELIVER" JELIVER' 
t DELIV
DELIVERY FAST FRF 
''ERY FAST. FREI
"RY FAST FREE ^ CL .'EriY 
, . " '3T. FREE DELIVEF?Y\ST FREF nei -
?Y F*
RY FAo Y FAST Fhc 
ERY FAST FREu 
RY FAST FREE DEL..
ERY FAST FREE DELIVE hi.
. DELIVF 
(EE DE' 
.1EE DE' 
j\. FREE 
31. FREE -crtY FAST FP
l,. .r
ST Fo-e DELIVERY 
' !VE
 ,r
W FAST. FREE OELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FR
ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST 
*Y FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST '
ERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FA'
}Y FAST. FREE DEt.IVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAr 
ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY 
RY FAST, FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY '
ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVE'
o 1G7Ll 1oee Iechweo 1G7Ll 1oee I-chwe1 U 95
ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DEL1 " < .
RY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELI' ' *  t
ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE D' .Er, . .Y
RY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE Or /ERY , / _ r ' r i
ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREF LIWR. F'^ Vi,-' F
*Y FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST, FREE LlVEf<Y FS.' rzc r
ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FRE JELIVcft ' ' ATT '1 '_i . , :T
RY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE '.IVERY FS. *n. . . .1 .tRVrAM c  
ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE  "LIVERY FAST FREr. '.twlVcr<Y rAST F< et T .
FAST FREE OELIVERY FAST FREE DEL ' rr!Y FAST. FREr. r_-IVERY FASI. rREE DE' 
ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DEL.',".* FAST rtf _ - I cqy rRY FAST FFREE DELIVERY-FAST FREE DELIVER hST tf c Dec. .
ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY r jT tREE OEl'VEh, rAjT. Fnct uc
.R.' 
RY F.
ERY F-IVfcHY 
.VEfVr v 
ELI'.'FhY -LIV^V. e 
OE M'" -c-R..\ ^ 
iE of;i >  .
-LIV
. . ev- CP/
H "F L nCLi' 
tr i "Li 
. '  IVEf 
- ;LIVE.
,>" IVERY ,
; LIVERY i
. (VERY FAS.
ELlVERY FAS.
LIVERY FAST FF.
>EL IVERY FA!
LIVERY FAST 
JELIVERY FA!
LIVERY FAST 
OELIVERY FAI 
-iLIVERY FAST 
DELIVERY FA:
.'LIVERY FAST _ . .
delivery fa Order any 12 pizza
Free cups of Fountain Pepsi !
RY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST 
ERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FA 
RY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAS 
ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FRY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAi 
ERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY AST FREE DELIVERY Fi 
RY FAST FREE DELIVERY rSl rPEE DELIVERY FAS 
ERY FAST FREE OfcLIVr  T V '-fi On.lVERY F 
RY FAST FPTE DcL'VFR. .M-lfcRYFA
ERY fast ff.ee ut-1 : -  >. y:
RY FAST FITEE OEl . ..-FA
ERY FASI. I FEE f : V .{Y '
o .9E2 rfdl rrv U9
ERY FAST ; P.k ~i '
'AST FREE L. - . .-A:-r F,!t_ i
"V. XiC| iWl c,
S
nELlVERY FAST F'
FP'E DtIVEHY r^
' FAST 
'Y FA 
FAST. . 
t FAST.
E O'-1-..
f33 rr*.. . -REE C-' . r. FREE f j. . - lls.f33 T30P5r.-vr, 
AST. FREE DE. >%- *ST. FREE DELIV. .
FAST FREE OELIVc i - ,
FAST. FREE DELIVERY 
.RY FAST FREE DELIVER .  . .
.RY FAST FREE DELIVERY FA' - ' 
.IVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY F .
^E .IVERY FAST FREE OELIVERY FAS'  . ' 
i FP OELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FASI '.V. .l'E rKsT FP DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST HF r ' . .
 RY FAcr cE DELIVERV FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FPt ,'r  .
EE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE . .
.^.,i rASf FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE .- . 1
'Y FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE OLi 
Y FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DE . .
AST. FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVc  ufcLlVt rAST. FREE DELIVEPY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIV ;
DELIVERY FA
hlivery fast cups of Pepis! If you
euvery fast order a 16 pizza,
,EDuvLVReyRFAFsiyOU can 9et up to 4 
delivery fa free cups of Pepsi!
LIVERY FAST .* -v' jj#1 
IVERY-- .RY - No coupon necessary, 
s'C 'just askfSi.-AST FR.
-c DELIVERY FAST, 1od 
ntE DELIVERY FAST, FREE L 
. _ .bT. FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE 0
, .-AST. FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELi 
. cRY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELI,
'.RY FAST, FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVER 
hLIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVER)
'/ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FA.
'ERY FAST, FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FA 
FREE DELIVERY FAST .
T. FREE DELIVERY FAST,
1oee Iechweo 1G7L 1od 
Ll 1oee Iechweo 1G7Ll 1od 
:in kl O* FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE dOlU N. uraig ot. T FREE DELIVERY FAST, FREE681-1700
AST FREE DEI 9Y ST FREE DELIVERY FAST, FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVEF. / 
FAST FREET. .R, FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVE!
 
Vi
rKJ.V .. .T
F  .'KiT  , fM
*..r
IY FAST Fi,..
ERY FAST FREF rtL...RY FAST FREE DELIVERY CA
RY FAST FREE OECVZnY F- ST 
RY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAS cKcC 
ERY FAST FREE DELIVER' -V b RY FAST FREE OELIVERY 1JK ,
ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAf - ,
RY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST F F -
ERY FAST FREE OELIVERY FAST f. c - 
RY FAST FREE OELIVERY FAST FREt 1 >
ERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE 
RY FAST FREE OELFVERY FAST FREE DE.
ERY FAST FREE OELIVERY FAST FREE OE.o 1G7L 1oee :echweo 1G7L 1oee :echwd 
eo 1G7L 1oee :echweo 1G7L 1oee IechwlRY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAS FREE 0ELIVERV 
ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVER1
RY FAST FREE OELIVERY FAST FREE Of"" 'K.ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. Fr >~At
RY FAST FREE DELIVERY FA*
ERY FAST FREE OELI''r"
RY FAST FREE r''ERY FA**
ST FREE rELI'"*XST FRF 
r. FREE
ST. FREE . i KAb
FREE Dfci. -EP'- c\
FREE DEI .cm 
REE DELI 
REE DEL 
*E OELIVE E DELIVE . *' FP 
OELIVERY F/ ,i.F- DELIVERY ALIVERY F, .61LIVERY F J r
ERY FAS. ,Er/ERY FAST I 
'Y FAST Ff i
TY FAST F. .El 
*AST. FRE' C .1
FREE DELIVERY FAST, FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY F 
r FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY 
"REE DELIVERY FAST. FREE OELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVER FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST. TREE DF' . - . 
REE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE r 
"C.E DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVE FRY FAST r 
DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FA" . *
- DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVEP 
ncF "LIVERY FAST FREE DELIVF'
' tt - 
*T. F ' 
Rl.- . R...
1oee Iechweo 1G7L 1oee Iec 
Mchweo 1G7Ll 1oee Iechweo 1G7Ll 1oee Iec 
8fW .97L 1oee Iechweo 1G7Ll 1oee Iechwel
'RY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST, FREE DELIVEf 
CAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY F 
'ST. FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY F 
FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FASI. 
"REE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAS 
c DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST.
 OELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST 
 IVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST 
'VERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST 
->Y FAST FREE DELI "RY FAST 
v FAST, FPr"
ST. r
LIVERY FAST FREE OE' 
ERY FAST FREE DF 'ERY FAST FREr 
Y FAST FRF 
RY FAST 
r FA - <
V / *  .
iW
*S
J T.
'SI 
.* f 
*T.
 FF  F 
HE -R.r . ooRT., REb 
TRl * Dl 
CR "D.
CE 'EL TE 0".a
.E D U w. rREE DEL VE.
.criY FAST FREE DE. VI 
-cLIVERY FAST, FREE DELIV. RY 
 i rHEE OELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVER
. i<l FREE OELIVERY FAST FREE OELIVER F 
..VERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVEF* ' F 
DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAS 
rREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY "AS 
~bT FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE OELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FA'.T , 
ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. 
RY FAST FREE OELIVERY FAST FREE OELIVERY FAST FREE OELIVERY FASI FR 
ERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAS
, FRFF
A?' "L
S P' IF/ nF' V
*S 'f. ' .. ifGd 'Rfcr r ,,VT F ..K FRt-K- *-
r".IVE FRY FAST. FREE OELIVERY FAST. FREE OELIVERY 19G
*3DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE OELIVERY FA
DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST
i DEI IE 0 
iE DE
TRY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FASTI 
.RY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FA
Y FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE OELIVERY FASl| 
RY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FA
Y FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FASTiYF 
RYFA5 
ERY F .RYF*
Ff.
il A.
*ST
'AS- T. -i DF FAST
*T.  K-t :  AST. f
T.-.F"ni. .<Y FASK_r -F1 FAST
f.r*  " Y FA
"I 'I.-;.*>> FA5 ff c>:.'A-"f r 
D.*'./F.rtYF#- 
 Oi l F.-j, T^REE 'Ll.'FRf FAST. FRE D 
'ELlVERY FAST FREE 
VERY FAST. FREl: t 
IVERY FAST FR(;f 
'RY FAST FREE t,."RY FAST FREE DELIVEF f 
. Y FAST. FREE DELIVERY FA I- 1
r *Y FAST. FREE DELIVERY -i
 c AST. FREE DELIVERY F/ ff
. v AST FREE OELIVERY HI
VT. FREE DELIVERY F t.l
" .. . ^T. FREE DELIVERY, -F It ". . REE DELIVERY FAST FRI
FREE DELIVERY FAST F I
E DELIVERY FAST FR I
" * . EE DELIVERY FAST r >
..  c . DELIVERY FAST FREE Ub
' OELIVERY FAST FREE C "LIVERY FAST. FREE DE 
.LIVERY FAST FREE D 
/ERY FAST FREE OELIVuoY F 
VERY FAST. FREE OELIVERY
.  rREE 
.. FREEDE.
. / FAST. FREE DE . .
_r<Y FAST. FREE DELIV I. 
.cLIVERY FAST FREE DELIV... 
OELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY 
REE DELIVERY FAST. FREE OELIVER 
REE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FA. 
jT FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY F, i 
oT FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DEL'VERY FASI
FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FA9pi 
Y FAST. FREE OELIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST
1oee Iechweo 1G7L 1oee Iechweo 1G Me Iechweo 1G7L 1oee :echweo 1G7hU 
oee Iechweo 1G7L 1oee Iechweo 1Gm 
Oe Iechweo 1G7L Moee Iechweo 1G7LM 
Bee Iechweo 1G7L 1oee Iechweo 19 
lHU O hweo 1G7L 1oee Iechweo 1G7Lg
i -LIVERY FAST. FREE DELIVERY FAte 
f f IVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST
HI -LIVERY FAST FREE OELIVERY FA*
f.l P FAST FREE DELIVERY FASTZ
$t
IY FAST. FREE OELIVERY FA 
FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST 
Ti FAST FREE DELIVERY FA 
REE OELIVERY FAST*
i -
l.i
f i(n
O
?<


S NOH o a
$1.00 off any 16" large 
pizza
One coupon per pizza 
Expires: 9/30/82
Fast, Free Delivery
310 N. Craig St. 
Phone: 681-1700
FREE DELIVERY FA3|
REE DELIVERY FAST
FREE OELIVERY FA:
REF 'LIVERY FAST.M FR LIVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE P
J' l VERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. FREE "
I .IVERY FAST FREE DELIVERY FAST. Fr
