New brew, new shows, and how to get a 
date
FEATURES................Page 11
Cross Country extends win streak to 82 
meets
SPORTS......................Page 20The Tartan
Volume 82, Issue 2 Carnegie Mellon University September 9,1987
GSIA Trailers Take Over Amphitheater
* m PP? 
k
'
Photo by Andy Gillespie
These four were bashed and bowled over at Saturdays Watermelon Bashthe 
traditional beginning of Greek Rush.
By JOSH RUBENTartan Staffwriter
A dry rush policy has been implemented for 
all fraternities this year for a designated two 
week period beginning on Monday, Septem
ber 14.
According to this plan, fraternities will have 
two weeks to have parties and activities to try 
and attract potential pledges, but will be pro
hibited from serving any alcohol at these 
events.
According to Greek Advisor Ron Campana, 
the decision to implement dry rush was 
jointly made by members of the Greek com
munity and the University. Other schools 
around the country have already established a 
dry rush policy, including the University of 
Pittsburgh. The national chapters of many of 
the Carnegie Mellon fraternities were really 
pushing [dry rush]. Campana added that he is
Parking Situation Worsens...
Undergrads Denied Parking Permits
By KARL BARNHARTTartan News Editor 
Over the summer, the City of Pittsburgh 
Planning Commission approved the designa
tion of seven streets adjacent to Carnegie 
Mellon as residential permit parking only; 
^ parking for non-residents is restricted to one 
hour. This zoning cost CMU commuters ap
proximately 400 spots. Unfortunately, al
though there are plans for a new garage, little 
is being done to improve the situation.
Students are the most adversely affected. No 
undergraduate students, including commut
ers, have been allocated University parking 
permits. We only got through sixth year grad 
. students, said Parking Coordinator, Sylvia 
Austin. In essence, there is no legal way for 
students who Uve on-campus to have vehicles 
near campus.
Parking is a reflection of the overall attitude 
of the Universitythat is distressing. The 
attitude throughout is very cooperative, but 
generally the administration feels students
dont need cars and it just causes problems for 
[the administration]. My attitude is students 
are the constituencies of the University, and as 
constituencies if they are willing to pay, then 
spaces should be made available for them, 
said Shep Bostin, Student Senator and mem
ber of 86-87 Senate Parking Committee. Inci
dentally, the Senate Parking Committee was 
formed to investigate, with the University, 
ways to stop the residential zoning.
According to Oscar Mayer, 500 students 
applied for parking permits and were wait 
listed. The parking office allocates permits 
according to affiliation with the University, in 
the following order; tenured faculty and ad
ministrators, non-tenured faculty and staff, 
and students. Parking starts with tenured fac
ulty and administrators, randomly assigns 
permits according to individual applications, 
and, if there are spaces left, moves to the next 
group. All faculty, staff, and administrators 
who applied for permits received them. If 
there are more applications than spaces, the
applicants who are left over are wait listed. 
Then, if spaces open up over the semester, they 
are offered to the wait listed individuals ac
cording to their application date and academic 
status.
This system does not take into account 
commuter status until after the waiting list is 
formed. Student Senate is trying to change 
this. Another problem with the system is a 
number of spaces are held back in the initial 
allocation for faculty and staff who either 
forget to fill out their applications on time or 
are hired after the parking application dead
line. Finally, some spaces are unnecessarily 
reserved; faculty and staff who had previously 
applied for a permit are assumed by the park
ing office to want one for that year. In other 
words, instead of faculty and staff telling 
Parking when they want a permit, they inform 
Parking only when they dont want a permit.
On the financial side, permits range from 
$170 to $480 per academic year. According to
continued on page 3
glad that the students played a role in the 
decision-making process and because of this, 
the fraternities are not really opposed to the 
plan.
The Greek system is the at
traction, not alcohol. I dont 
think [dry rush] will affect the 
size of the pledge class.
Roy White
Inter-Fraternity Council President, Freder
ick DeLeon, stated that the dry rush policy was 
instigated by the IFC after a request was made 
to them by the administration.
The general consensus from the fraternities 
is that the two week dry rush period is fine, as 
long as the fraternities can have wet parties in 
the two weeks prior to the rush. Delta 
Upsilons Rush Chairman, Doug Carey, 
agrees with the schools decision, Other 
schools are going to a dry rush, and we should 
too. In terms of attracting people to the house, 
Carey stated, Its better this way. Last year we 
had a half wet/half dry rush period. This year 
everyone knows what nights are dry and can 
better plan for those nights. In this way, the 
weeks before dry rush can actually be used as 
a type of pre-rush.
One pledge at Phi Kappa Theta said that the 
policy is nothing more than a double stan
dard. The school wants to have a dry rush that 
it can show off to the alumni, parents, and 
other universities, while at the same time al
lowing the fraternities to have wet parties that 
they can invite freshmen to.
The school does not prohibit fraternities to 
advertise wet pre-rush parlies, nor does it 
prohibit the fraternities to admit freshmen. 
We leave that up to the discretion of the 
individual fraternities, commented Cam
pana. The school does not police fraternity 
parties (wet or dry); they arc regulated by the 
existing school rules. Rules regarding the
continued on page 5
By AMY STEVENSON Tartan Staffwriter
Increased Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration (GSIA) enrollment has forced 
GSIA administration to place trailers behind 
CFA in an attempt to increase space. This 
week construction began on a temporary loca
tion for the trailers next to GSIA and the CFA 
outdoor amphitheater while the University 
continues their fundraising efforts for a per
manent GSIA addition.
Since 1982, GSIA enrollment has increased 
from 122 to an all-time high of 205 for the 
1987 fall semester. In addition, GSIA began 
its Rex-Time program (a program for stu
dents who work part-time and attend classes) 
in the summer of 1985. The total enrollment in 
that program is now 175.
Susan Motz, Admissions Director for GSIA, 
attributes increased enrollment to added pub
licity and interest in the graduate program. She 
stated, We do not intend to become a diploma 
mill, but we do have to grow. As it was, we 
were one of the smallest of top MBA schools.
She stressed that the GSIA program has not 
sacrificed quality for quantity, noting that 
GMAT scores have increased since 1982.
Sandy Mawhinney, GSIA Assistant Dean of 
Administration, is coordinator of the construc
tion. She sees the trailers as the best solution to 
the pressing space/enrollment problem in 
GSIA. Mawhinney says, The current facili
ties were never intended to house the number 
of people in it now. We had to ask the Univer
sity for temporary space while we continued 
fundraising efforts for a permanent addition. 
Funds for the new addition will be raised 
through CMUs ongoing capital campaign.
The immediate solution is the addition of six 
trailers, next to GSIA in the amphitheater 
space. According to Mawhinney, they are 
being moved from their current location di
rectly behind CFA to avoid conflict with the 
CFA area. The trailers will house offices for 
PhD students, additional GSIA computer 
space, and a behavioral lab.
Mawhinney added that GSIA acceptance
continued on page 5
With office space at a premium, Carnegie Mellon is resorting to placing grad students 
in trailers to temporarily solve the problem. These trailers are located between (SI A 
and CFA.
Mixed Student Reaction...
Greeks Implement Dry Rush

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanSeptember 9,1987
Iran Reported to Have 
Fired Its 1st Silkworm
MANAMA, Bahrain  Shipping officials 
identified a missile that exploded in Kuwaiti 
waters Friday as a Chinese-built Silkworm. 
Though the speaker of Irans Parliament de
nied that his country had fired missiles at 
Kuwait, the Silkworm exploded two miles 
from tankers preparing for a U.S. escort.
The White House would not immediately 
confirm the reports, which if true, would ap
parently mark the first use of the anti-ship 
Silkworms. The missiles have a range of 50 
miles, making them particularly dangerous in 
the narrow Persian Gulf.
Earlier in the week U.S. officials strongly 
protested renewed Iraqi attacks on Irans oil 
terminals. The officials said they fear Iran 
would retaliate against the U.S. convoys. 
Twenty ships were hit in 6 days of fighting last 
week.
Rust Sentenced to 4 
Years of Hard Labor
MOSCOW  Mathias Rust, the West Ger
man who landed a plane in Red Square, was 
sentenced Friday to four years of hard labor. 
The Soviet Supreme Court, which handed 
down the sentence, contended that Rust had 
made the trip to promote himself, not world
peace.
The Soviet Supreme Court heard the case 
because Rusts 50-mile flight from Finland 
also crossed the air space of Estonia and the 
Russian republic, both Soviet Republics.
The May 28 flight forced Soviet leader 
Mikhail Gorbachev to fire the air defense chief 
and accept the resignation of the defense 
minister.
Western sources speculate that the Soviets 
will expel Rust rather than make him serve the 
time. The judge said the West German will be 
sent to the least severe of the four levels of 
labor camps. The judge was not more specific, 
but the Soviets do have special camps for 
foreigners.
Fed Increases Discount 
Rate to Curb Inflation
WASHINGTON  The Federal Reserve 
raised its discount rate Friday for the first time 
since 1984. The increase, from 5.5 to 6 per
cent, had been expected by many economists 
because the rate of inflation has increased over 
the last few months. Higher interest rates 
constrict the money supply, which in recent 
years has been successful in reducing infla
tion.
Some economists did express surprise that 
the Feds chairman, Alan Greenspan, would 
change monetary policy after only a month at 
the job. In addition, the move quells rumors 
that Greenspan would be unwilling to slow the
economy close to an election year. Greenspan 
had been an economic advisor to both Presi
dents Ford and Reagan before accepting the 
Fed post.
The announcement came shortly after the 
release of a government report that showed 
unemployment maintaining a rate of 6 percent 
in August
Reagan Celebrates 
Landon's Birthday
SANTA BARBARA  After nearly a 
month of relaxation in California, President 
Reagan headed back for Washington on Satur
day. His spokesman said Mr. Reagan will be 
returning to one of the busiest months of his 
presidency. Congressional budget battles, an 
arms reduction agreement Senate confirma
tion hearings for Supreme Court nominee 
Robert Bork, and a number of out-of-town 
trips are on the agenda. On his way to the 
White House, Reagan stopped in Topeka, 
Kansas to attend Alf Landons 100th birthday 
party. Landon, the Republican candidate who 
ran against Franklin Roosevelt in 1936, turns 
100 on Wednesday.
Newspaper Reports 
Stark Almost Sunk
PHILADELPHIA  A published report 
says better firefighting equipment might have 
saved the lives of some crewmen who were 
killed when Iraqi missiles hit the U.S.S. Stark 
in the Persian Gulf. The Philadelphia Inquirer 
says the Stark is one of many U.S. Navy ships 
that lack adequate firefighting tools.
Internal Navy documents suggest the the 
Stark was so ill equipped to fight the fire that 
the ship might have sunk were it not for the aid 
of a foreign tugboat that passed by the strug
gling ship.
The Navy has refused to release the findings 
of its investigation into the attack. The Phila
delphia Inquirer obtained its information by 
obtaining the documents and interviewing the 
ships captain and crew.
S. Allegheny Teachers , 
Vote on New Contract
PITTSBURGH  After several hours of 
negotiations Saturday, the South Allegheny 
School District reached a tentative agreement 
with its teachers. No details were immediately 
released about the agreement, which was 
scheduled for a ratification vote on Monday. .
According to the state mediator, the agree- * 
ment would cover three years. The contract 
reportedly raises teachers salaries more than 
the original offer by the board, but less than the 
$2,400 the teachers had requested. The raise 
would be spread over three years.
Teachers in four other school districts re
main on strike.
tllf :h Associated Ffcp!
is now open seven days a week. 
Serving your favorites every day until 2 am! 
And dont forget our live entertainment on 
the weekends!
This Friday, Also,
James Lane Nick Santoro
Mental Magician The American Juggalo
at 8 pm and 10 pm at 9 pm and 11 pm
>

---------------------------------------------------

September 9,1987The TartanPage 3
HiTech Wins State Tourny
By CHRIS YOUNGTartan Staffwriter
Competing in the Penn State Chess 
Championships August 29-30, HiTech, a 
chess machine developed by members of 
the Carnegie Mellon Computer Science 
Department, improved its ranking as the 
highest ranked chess machine in the world.
HiTech won four games and drew on one, 
finishing in a four-way tie for first among 
its human competitors. But based on tie
breaker rules, HiTech came in first, and 
received a new ranking of 2550 (earlier 
ranking 2300), in the lower ranks of the 
Grand Master class. All other nonhuman 
chess players rank below 2210. Though 
finishing first, HiTech could not be named 
State Champion or receive any prize 
money.
One of its creators, Gordon Goetsch, says, 
The ingredients that make HiTech so 
powerful are its individual chips that it has
for each square on the chess board. Each 
squares chip figures its total legal moves, 
and then meets with all the other chips to 
vote on what will be the best move. The 
combined searching and analyzing of all 
chips helps give HiTech the power that 
won its prestigious title.
Initial interest in this type of chess ma
chine was started by Dr. Hans Berliner of 
the Computer Science Department during 
his dissertation on an earlier chess machine 
in the 1970s. In 1982, Carl Ebeling built 
on Berliners program for his dissertation 
and used the VLSIC (Very Large Scale 
Integrated Circuit) to make a new design. 
Since then, four other members of the 
Computer Science Department have 
worked on HiTech: Gordon Goetsch, 
Murray Campbell, Andy Palay, and Larry 
Slomer.
HiTechs creators continue to fine tune 
and improve their HiRanking machine.
Parking Garage Planned
Continued from page 1
Student Senate Wrap-up...
Senate Endorses Semester Change
Student Senate records (Mayer would not re
lease the Parking budget), Parking had a 1986- 
87 total income of $520,000 and total ex
penses of $548,000. Most of the expenses 
were listed as loan payment*, rental, 
taxes, and leases. Their 1987-88 pro
jected budget was $765,000 income and 
$776,000 expenses; $81,000 was set aside for 
salaries (Parking has a four person staff). In
cluded in the projected budget was $3 million 
for a new garage and $10,000 for the renova
tion of the 5017 Forbes lotthe money for 
these projects was listed under a capital re
serve analysis.
Regarding the garage, Mayer expects the 
University to start construction on a three story 
garage (it will be on the current site of the 
lower Skibo lot) this springhe didnt give a 
completion date. The garage is expected to 
cost about $6 million and have 600 spaces. 
Parking looked at a five story structure but 
rejected it because of cost; each space costs 
$10,000 to $15,000.
By KEVIN POECKINGTartan Staffwriter
Student Senate endorsed a proposal to shift 
next semesters schedule back one week. 
Marianne Moore, Director for Special Events, 
addressed the Senate to learn of student con
cerns for the possibility of a change. A shift 
would prevent graduation from falling on 
Mothers Day, as it did this year.
Two proposals were discussed by Senate. 
One was to shift the entire semester one week 
into the spring. This would make winter break 
one week longer and extend final exams one 
week, pushing graduation to May 15. Spring 
break would not be changed. The other was to 
make spring break one week longer and shift 
the schedule one week from that point A 
concern both Senators and students in the 
audience voiced regarded the effects of a 
shifted break on summer employment; they 
said that getting out early gave them an advan
tage over other college students in the job 
market.
The Senate accepted the first proposal, with 
only one Senator voting against it. The vote is 
only Senatesendorsementof the proposal and 
does not necessarily mean that the semester 
will be changed.
In other business...
Norman Larson made a motion to request 
that at least one administrator attend each 
meeting of Student Senate. Previously, either 
Lois Cox or Brad Walter from Student Affairs 
have attended the meetings. This year, how
ever, Dean Walter informed Senate officials 
that neither would attend; instead they would
meet with Tamal Mukherjee and Chairman 
Dave Goldstein each week.
The Student Government Constitution pro
vides for a representative from the administra
tion as an ex officio member of Senate. 
Mukherjee claimed it is rare for an administra
tor to say much during a meeting. Shep Bostin 
pointed out that whether or not they say any
thing is not as important as the fact that they 
listen to what the students say through Senate. 
Allen Greenburg also emphasized that direct 
communication between Senate and Admini
stration is necessary. The vote was unanimous 
in favor of requesting that the seat be filled.
Jeff Trull, noting that the constitution also 
provides for a Faculty Senate representative to 
Student Senate, made a motion to invite a 
member from Faculty Senate to attend each 
meeting. The motion passed.
In other action, Senate announced that the 
Political Speakers Forum Board will be ac
cepting nominations soon. A total of seven 
seats will be available: two for Senators, one 
for the Activities Board, and four for activities 
fee paying students. The Activities Board will 
also appoint a non-voting member to the 
board. Twenty-five names will be required for 
nomination.
As a final note, Norman Larson resigned 
from Senate, and Celeste Clark was elected to 
replace him as chairman of the Academic 
Affairs Committee.
Student Senate meets every Tuesday at 7p.m. in the Wherrett room. Also, Senators from each college hold office hours throughout the week.
THE DISCOUNT ART SUPPLY STORE FOR ALL YOUR 
BACK TO SCHOOL NEEDS
CLASS -ASSIGNMENTS...15% OFF/
-COM FfcSSORSfADGFI?. PAASCH25% OFF/ ................-NAMe &RAnu AlK iiRliiiftS 
vfcnD&EN AASCUE iwATA)
MO% OFF p M0RE7-A;?T P0RTFL105/ PR5ENTW(W Cfi SfS
-TISMACOLOC ENCfu SETS
- .'/IN&ARM SU/DfNf AMPS filoso FACH.1) 
-|;Aili/G.-kAkH 7 CET 
iKt, PPUt 88.73-QPPY kU t2B
VISIT OUR ART LOFT for Super Savings up to 50% on 
Canvas, Brushes, Artist Color
PROFESSIONAL STATS at Student Prices
10% STUDENT DISCOUNT With School I D 
FREE POPCORN!
HOURS: Mon-Fri 8:45to 5:30
Sat 9:30 to 5:30
SPECIAL ENDS
OCT 31 1987
323 Blvd ot the Allies (Downiown)PGH. PA 15222 412/281 2133
Imagine Peace
A Writing Competition
Can the threat of nuclear war be eliminated? Must regional and 
superpower conflicts lead to war? Can you imagine peace?
To make peace believable, it must be specific. Experimental psy
chology has demonstrated that people think in terms of concrete 
scenarios. People assign higher probabilities to outcomes if it is 
easy to envision how they could come about. Such "scenario 
thinking" holds a potential in the search for peace. Novels, short 
stories, plays, and movies can improve our abilty to think about and 
visualize peaceful futures.
Carnegie Mellon University's Program on International Peace and 
Security (IPS) is running a competition to encourage individuals 
and small groups to develop realistic scenarios for peace (no big 
wars, near wars, miracles, green men, or profound changes in 
human nature). Scenarios may, for example, describe how the 
U.S.A. and U.S.S.R. resolve the cold war, or how peace is achieved 
in any of a number of regional conflicts.
Your idea for a peaceful future could win you the chance to partici
pate in a unique academic experience. During the Spring and 
Summer semesters of 1988 selected students will join "Imagine 
Peace" fellowship winners in a series of workshops and seminars 
aimed at developing scenario proposals into publishable products. 
Students will earn 9 to 12 units of academic credit while complet
ing a media project.
To become eligible, students should submit initial proposals (1500 
words or less) by October 16. Details and applications are available 
from The Program on International Peace and Security, 129 Baker 
Hall. Drop by or send us a note if you are interested.

---------------------------------------------------

attention: h&ss seniorsattention: im seniors
The deadline to turn your resume 
in to Career Services and Place
ment (Warner Hall 19) for the 
H&SS Resume Book is Wednesday,
September 16. Only one page 
resumes will be accepted.
If you need help preparing your 
resume, make an appointment to 
see Debbie Mall in Career Serv
ices and Placement.
Don't miss the opportunity to 
have your resume included in the 
H&SS Resume Book, which is sent 
to hundreds of potential employ
ers .
I
The deadline to turn your resume 
in to Career Services and Place
ment (Warner Hall 19) for the IM 
Resume Book is Wednesday, Septem
ber 16. Only one page resumes 
will be accepted.
If you need help preparing your 
resume, make an appointment to 
see Debbie Mall in Career Serv
ices and Placement.
Don't miss the opportunity to 
have your resume included in the 
IM Resume Book, which is sent to 
hundreds of potential employers.
^ - :
Are you interested in working on the
Thistle Yearbook
Then you should be at our first general staff meeting:
Tonight, Tuesday, September 9,1987 
7 oclock pm
Skibo room 45 (downstairs)
( PIZZA and REFRESHMENTS will be served !)
Publishing a great yearbook requires all kinds of skills and talents. Whether you are into photography, layout 
and design, writing, or just about anything else (including just having fun ), then you can help us. If you want to help, 
but dont think you have the experience, dont worry  We will teach you.
If you are interested in working on the yearbook then please try to attend this meeting. If you cant attend then 
call us at x2121 or drop by our office in Skibo 46A and let us know that you would like to join the 
THISTLE yearbook staff.

---------------------------------------------------

September 9,1987The TartanPage 5
Student Senate Minutes, September 1
Meeting called to order 7:05 pm.
Present: Bendre, Berger, Berkowitz,
Bostin, Christina, Clark, Gallo, Goldstein, 
Greenberg, Kombrek, Hausman, Larson, 
Levine, Levy, Mukherjee, Trull.
Absent: Maxwell, Samuels, Friedman, 
Ayre, Sherlock.
Ex Officio Members Present: Robitshek, Skolkin.
Audience Participation: Discussed with 
Marianne Moore the possibility of moving 
first day of spring semester from January 4 
to January 11, so commencement does not 
fall on Mothers Day. Proposal supported 
by Student Senate.
President: Andrew Robitshek: Dis
cussed parking problem with Fred Rogers. 
There will be 176 spaces, double parked, at 
Morewood Gardens for staff. Campus plan 
changed. Dorm is now planned to be where 
tennis courts were planned to be. The Tech 
House may still be saved, but moved to 
another location. Tailgate party scheduled 
for first football game and Homecoming 
game. Budget: $2000.00. A meeting will 
be held on Saturday, Sept. 5 at noon to 
discuss details. Names needed for Discipli
nary and Trustees Councils. Courses may 
be offered during winter break. No pro
posal yet.
SDC: none.
IFC: Watermelon Bash Saturday, Sept. 
5,1-7 pm.
Chairman: Dave Goldstein: Senators
office hours established by next week. 
Elections for senator replacements on Nov.
11 & 12. Computer Science will be added 
to the Senate Constitution, so they will have 
a seat in Student Senate. Norman Larson 
resigned from Student Senate.
Treasurer: Kerry Skolkin: none. 
Academic Affairs: Norm Larson: none. 
Campus Affairs: Glenn Kombrek: Inves
tigating art hazards in studios. Asbestos 
found in Margaret Morrison basement. 
Book store prices too high, as compared to 
N.Y.U. and Pitt bookstores. Concerned 
students can show documented lower 
prices for same books elsewhere.
Funding and Recognition: none.
Public Relations: Dana Hausman: Re
treat for Student Senators on Saturday, 
Sept. 19 at the Sheraton. Once vacancies on 
Senate are filled, there will be a Happy 
Hour for all students.
Rules: Shep Bostin: People with ideas for 
rules talk to Shep.
Old Business: none.
New Business: Senator Celeste Clark 
was nominated and voted for the chairman 
of Academic Affairs. Resolution to have 
member of administration at Senate meet
ings passed. Resolution to invite faculty to 
meetings passed.
Points of Discussion: Goodbye Norman. 
Hello Vince Matsko as representative to the 
Senate from GSO.
Meeting adjourned 8:30 pm.
Trailers Take Over Amphitheater
Dry Rush Evokes
continued from page 1
other universities, while at the same time al
lowing the fraternities to have wet parties that 
they can invite freshmen to.
The school does not prohibit fraternities to 
advertise wet pre-rush parties, nor does it 
prohibit the fraternities to admit freshmen. 
We leave that up to the discretion of the 
individual fraternities, commented Campana. The school does not police fraternity 
parties (wet or dry); they are regulated by the 
existing school rules. Rules regarding the 
serving of alcohol, however, are made up by 
the Council of Fraternity Presidents, headed 
by Jordan Aberman who could not be reached
Mines Bldg. A Dedi
cated Hamburg Hall
By KEIKURITATartan Staffwriter 
The U.S. Bureau of Mines Building A has 
been renamed Hamburg Hall. With the recom
mendation of President Cyert, the Board of 
Trustees of CMU decided to name the building 
Hamburg Hall as a result of Lester Hamburgs 
major financial contribution to CMU.
Carnegie Mellon purchased the U.S. Bureau 
of Mines over four years ago, and has held 
several fundraisers to finance its renovation. 
Hamburg, who is a Life Trustee of the Board, 
donated a significant amount of money, and 
because of this generosity, was chosen to have 
the hall named after him. A dedication cere
mony was held May 11.
After the renovation, Hamburg Hall, located 
west of the University Computing Center, will 
house SUP A, the Center for Design of Educa
tional Computing and the Engineering Design 
Research Center.
Hamburg is senior chairman of the Pitts
burgh firm of Hamburg Brothers, Inc.; he is 
not a CMU alumni.
Mixed Reaction
for comment. Naturally, added Campana, 
some [freshmen] do slip through the cracks 
and attend wet parties.
Campana does not expect any fraternity to 
violate the dry rush policy once rush begins. 
Internal peer enforcement will play an im
portant part, he said. Everyone wants to get 
off on an equal foot so the fraternities will 
keep an eye on each other to make sure that ev
eryone complies with the rules.
However, some houses already have broken 
some of the rules and have received monetary 
fines. One of the regulations regarding adver
tising of the wet parties is that the flyers and 
posters are not allowed to say Freshmen 
Invited. Related to this rule, no fraternity can 
distribute a monthly calendar which in
cludes both wet and dry nights on it Phi Kappa" 
Theta received a fine for this offence. Calen
dars advertising only the two week dry rush 
period are allowed. Also, advertising for any 
party could not begin until after August 30. 
Delta Tau Delta got fined for breaking this 
rule. Fines begin at $25 and can double for 
each successive offence.
The main problem with any dry rush, accord
ing to Carey, is that when potential pledges 
come to a dry party, they may not be seeing the 
fraternity (or the Greek community) as it re
ally is. Carey added that since the dry rush is 
new to the school, there is really no way to de
termine how it will affect the size of the pledge 
class.
Sophomore Tbeta Xi pledge, Roy White, 
disagrees with this analysis. The Greek sys
tem is the attraction, not alcohol, stated 
White. I dont think [dry rush] will change 
the size of this years pledge class.
Alpha Epsilon Pis only problem with the 
dry rush is the time limit. We have a dry rush 
regardless of policy, stated one AEPi mem
ber. However, with only two weeks, were 
really going to have to work hard. It was better 
last year with four weeks for rush.
continued from page 1
and enrollment have been stabilized until the 
permanent addition is made. The addition is 
part of the new university plan. Funds are 
being allocated through the CMU Capital
Campaign, begun in 1986. Mawhinney sees 
actual construction as a few years in the future. 
To administration the trailers are the only 
immediate, feasible solution to a critical prob
lem within the university community.
TUTORS NEEDED
t
FOR FALL 1987 
WALK-IN TUTORING PROGRAM
SUNDAY THRU THURSDAY 
7:00 -10:00 p.m.
$3.50 HOURLY
Please call the Counseling Center, Ext. 2922, 
if interested in tutoring any of the following;
Calculus, Pre, I, II, III 
Physics 
Chemistry 
Economics
Financial Accounting 
Academic Writing
Walk-in Tutoring Program will begin 
September 20.
T1000 LAPTOP COMPUTER
/V* /I oa the TIOOO and yarn ff j 
fat'. Toshil moat affordable laptop 
|i*n you desk lop It power wherever 
you need H Far added convenience 
and spied. Ifull function portable 
uses the industry standard MS DOS 
operating system m ROM Ami hccauae 
it's HIM compatible, you can draw on 
llie comprehendv? array of software 
cicalcd (or the HIM l"C family A fuN 
5I2KF) of user memory, expandable 
to 640K& means you can use very 
sophisticated programs There's abo 
a built in 720KB diskette drive lor 
generous storage capacity and aH the 
advantages of tlie sturdy, popular, 
and easy to transport 3H* diskettes.
Oest of aH, the T1000 s a luKhiba a* ludtiig details on our Excrpttonal
oomiwler so you know it s advanced. Care service program and options to
reliable, realist icatty priced, and fully tailor our craiHMler to yiur growing
supported Ycmt dealer has all Hie lacts. needs Find mg more today!
SPECIFICATIONS
G
--JTL3 m 
Sto*4mni tmrrfmrt fmti knm 
ermfirnfmi fi UUMI
 ' SOC 88. running 4 4 77MHi  IBM rCcwf*iWe( ' Real tin*- clock /calendarHmRY----------------------------I  512KB KAM expandable o 610KB  mem.y plu MOKI) ok LIM EMS * 2SfKBnl NOM km MS |H>S*2 IIRSICTWrVf--------------1 Buik in 720KB 3V>* diskette dri>*
AC adapter/battery dmmrowshattet
I5FUT11 Toshiba superi ist LCD dnplay   90 character* x 2S lines f  WO x 200 bit maiHied graphics I  fotti tun adjustable a luN 180 degrees   IBM Color Grapims Adaptet (CGA)
Jtkihibn j (omftnd comfimtrr canty skms m 
m kw*4 kmg am4 Mom in  Aik dmurr
Toshiba's supertwist LCD display 
is also a joy to use-crisp, bright and 
readable Vbu can also connect to a 
color monitor, printer and more with 
six built in inteilace ports And yes. 
a 300/1200 bps Hayes* compatible 
modem is available to open up a world 
of communications possibilities
AU this-and more -comes in 
a truly portable. 6 4 pound package 
Your T1000 can ThT up to 5 hours on 
batteries-or plug M into a aH outlet 
lor continuous po*rr Documentation 
includes a comprehensive manual, plus 
quick reference cards that travel along 
with your computer And the whole 
system lucks neatly inside a desk 
drawer when not eT use
1100*
nmimmcmwwsDi> uN turnIm 82 key kevbuaidI Imrgralrd nwNierir kry padi 1 Sjiwal Fw kry hie filcwM lunduVolume82 ,uIsCalrsnII Faulk I ptmirf purl11 US JXIC serial port 11 CipMtn itl km 1WIJ00 bps m H Esin apt J*- d.Urtir dtir pan I > KCB co4*jt mnmlta pmt
1 Fucinai kry pad pmtsnrmnin MS OS* 2 II in ROM 11 2gi Und SirKick"
12 2-W > : ttS-M m II rl>. IM. I. drtk rwrf 6 4 lbsRUTTI--------------------------------------, 8Mi up U) 5 Ilsurs on nraaf irritar pr ahlr baumeI  AC adapter IM 112 VAC.  VDC aMp, Ui ban r r y misma Uritiomws  --------,, ,igvng, MVI2W kps tlayra conpaltMrmodemt Internal 768KB memory card pnmdes an extra 129KB user RAM plus 640KB oI IIM KMS memory IU* us-Intet*/ Mxrraolt" Expanded Memory Specification) (available EaM 1997)  External 5* * diskette drive * Automotulr p*mrr adapter  < 17 key numeric key padf I Flnppy Lmk to desktop Stt * diskette
f MS DOS 3-2 on 3** diskette  Universal AC adapter 100 2*4 VAC farvorldwidr usage (avable ta* IM7) i Carrying case with shuulder BtiaeninTtlfW R RT3TY-----------------1* One year parts and Uhnr with no cast Exceptional Care enrollment during this penud ______________________
rVrW?1
7tr TIOOO kai m futi iti ml turn fcryomr mkmk tmluts sm tmcgmtr nrnmttru p+4
aretn
 trUiWt U Hay*
i>l_PINE
Offlcs Products Corp.
(4121 811 *1400
Mt M+> adll emit

---------------------------------------------------

KAUFMANN'S
a division of
The May Department Stores Company
cordially invites you
to attend our Open House
Monday, September 21
Skibo Room 12 
10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
Stop in to discuss
challenging and rewarding
opportunities through our
Executive Training Program.
The following Seniors 
who successfully completed our 
Summer Internship Program 
will also be available to 
provide information:
Mark Hart Laleh Hassibi
Carl Messineo Michael Nazzaro

---------------------------------------------------

September 9,1987The TartanPage 7
Crime and Incident 
Report: 8/28 to 9/2
8/28 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 8:50 
am Unknown persons painted the words 
The Clan on sidewalk near the Fence. 
8/28 THEFT BY DECEPTION
10:18 pm Comer of Center and Devon
shire, person who identified himself as a 
Pitt student asked CMU student for gas 
money to go home to Harrisburg. CMU 
student gave him $60 in return for 
others name and address.
8/28 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 12:57 
pm Unknown persons damaged trailer 
door and door locks on mall side of 
Baker Hall.
8/28 THEFT 4:20 pm Books missing 
from MMCH 302 and 304. Taken be
tween mid July and Aug 28.
8/29 THEFT BY DECEPTION 8:57 
pm Victim was approached by two 
people selling Boston Concert tickets. 
Victim took perpetrators to his apart
ment and gave them $40. Went to 
Forbes Ave. Bridge to get tickets. Vic
tim offered bag of marijuana as collat
eral; victim refused. Perpetrators went to 
get tickets, didnt return. Perpetrators 
described as 5' 8" black male, slight 
build, light beard and mustache, crossed 
eyes wearing tan derby hat and light blue 
jogging suit. Other perpetrator , referred 
to as My old lady, is 5' 5 black female, 
slight build, medium length hair pulled 
straight back wearing white waist length 
coat and bluejeans.
8/30 THEFT BY DECEPTION af
ternoon Victims roommate met perpe
trator in Skibo, took him to his room to 
sell to victim Boston concert tickets, 
victim gave $60 for tickets. Perpetrator 
and victim met perpetrators girlfriend 
at flagstaff, 3 left Flagstaff to Forbes to 
get perpetrators car and tickets, on way 
perpetrator offered fourth ticket for $ 10, 
victim only had $20 bill, perpetrator 
took $20 and promised victim change. 
Victim left at Hillman Library while 
perpetrator went to get car. Victim of
fered bag of marijuana as collateral, 
refused. Victim waited 20 minutes, went 
downtown looking for perpetrators. 
Perpetrators described as other Boston 
ticket scammers; male wore sweatpants 
and no shirt, female wore turquois dress.
8/30 THEFT 9:44 pm Victim left her 
wallet in third floor Donner bathroom; 
missing $100 when she returned for it.
8/31 THEFT 11:00 am to 11:30 pm 
Unknown persons removed coffee 
maker, iron, tea kettle, hot curler travel 
pack, $15 in quarters, and make-up and 
hair clips valued at $20 from room in 
Hampshire Hall. No signs forced entry.
8/31 THEFT 1:25 pm Victim put wal
let on chair in Hamerschlag lounge 
while playing ping-pong when he re
turned wallet was gone. Victim lost 
$200, drivers license, and credit cards.
8/31-9/1 THEFT 26", brown, Colum
bia, mens, all-terrain, 10 speed, bike 
taken from GSIA bikerack. $45 value.
8/31-9/1 THEFT Unknown person 
took mens, silver, Concord Raven, 10 
speed bike from GSIA bikerack. $300 
value.
9/1 THEFT 11:12 pm 25" Zenith, 
color, floor-model TV taken from ATO 
lounge. $499.99 value.
9/2 POWER OUTAGE 2:01 am Af
fected entire campus, Mellon Institute, 
and Bureau of Mines. Physical plant and 
Duquesne Light responded. All power 
restored by 4:08 am.
9/2 THEFT 4:30 pm Unknown person 
took black, Sears, 10 speed bike from 
pavilion in Schenely Park. $50 value.
CSW/Public Cluster Opens in Baker Hall
By CHRISTOPHER CULVERTartan Staffwriter
Theres a new computer cluster on campus. 
Its in 140 Baker Hall where the old Design 
Typography Lab was located, and it is the most 
up to date cluster yet Officially opened on 
August 31, it s prime purpose is for Computer 
Skills Workshop (CS W) classes. However, the 
cluster does have some public hours, which 
should increase next semester as the number of 
CSW classes decreases.
This cluster has some new hardware which 
isnt found in any other public cluster on 
campus. There are two separate rooms, one 
containing workstations and the other contain
ing personal computers. One room holds 20 
SUN 3s connected to the Andrew system. The 
other room contains 20 double-drive IBM 
PCs, placed side by side with 20 Macintosh 
SEs, an updated version of the Macintosh 
Plus.
This new Mac features two internal 800k 
drives, along with one megabyte internal 
memory. They also feature a new extended 
keyboard, similar in design to the Andrew 
workstation keyboards. These seem to be 
much easier to use than the standard Mac 
keyboards. All of the Macs are connected to an
Apple LaserWriter through an Appletalk net
work.
The other new feature of the cluster lies in the 
IBM PCs. The PCs of this cluster are con
nected to a token-ring, which is a local 
network with a central hard-drive, thus mak
ing it much easier to prepare CSW classes. 
Similarly during public hours, the attendant 
will not have to hand out common PC soft
ware, such as Kermit, Scribe, and Epsi
lon. These PCs are all connected to a Hewl
ett-Packard printer through the PC network.
There is also a strong possibility that there will 
soon be a laserprinter installed few the SUN 3s 
too.
The Baker Hall cluster is open to the public 
from 9 pm to 3 am weekdays, 12 pm to 12 am 
Saturdays, and 5 pm to 12 am Sundays. The 
head consultant is Charlene Spann, and she 
can be contacted by electronic mail at 
CS3A@TE. One final notewhen you use 
the new cluster, make sure to wear warm 
clothing, as it is extremely cold due to an overactive air conditioner.
Paul L. Smith, Assistant Financial Aid Direc
tor & CMU Alumnus, Dies Suddenly At 30
Paul Leo Smith, Assistant Financial Aid 
Director at CMU, died suddenly August 26, at 
the family home.
Smith, 30, had worked in the financial aid 
department for nine years. He graduated from 
CMU in 1978 with a double major in History 
and Business Admin/Management Science.
Bom April 27, 1956, he was a life-long 
resident of Sewickley and a 1974 graduate of 
Quaker Valley Senior High School.
As an undergraduate, he was a member of 
Delta Tau Delta fraternity. He served on the
alumni board that governs the school chapter. 
He was also a member of the Pennsylvania, 
Eastern and National associations of Student 
Financial Aid Administrators.
On August 31, the University flew flags at 
half-mast and a bus carrying friends and fel
low employees was sent to a Mass of Christian 
Burial at St. James Roman Catholic Church, 
Sewickley, and graveside services at the fam
ily plot in United Cemeteries, West View.
The University has established a scholarship 
fund in Smiths memory.
Gaming Club
presents
Games Fest 1987
Registration Saturday, Sept. 12 at Noon
Room 12 SkiboIt's " ; s | % 'i *
Tournaments of the following:
AD&D 
Car Wars 
Diplomacy 
Axis and Allies 
War and Peace 
Fortress America 
Star Fleet Battles 
Talisman
Other Popular Games
...Cash Prizes
Funded by your Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Dry Rush Policy is All Wet
This second attempt of instituting a dry rush policy is another example of 
people who know what they want, and know how to get it.
The administration has gone through all sorts of public hoopla to let us know 
that the dry rush they want is a noble onewhere students are attracted to a 
fraternity not by the amount of alcohol consumed, but by their friendships with 
current members, and impressions of spending four years with them.
The IFC, too, would like to have a limited dry rush, but their reasons are a little 
different; they want to please the increasing number of national chapters that are 
for a dry rush, and also the administration.
The result is a public relations coup for both.
Last year, the less-than-effective policy was that some weekends were dry, but 
a few were allowed to be wet. This didnt please the administration or IFC 
because students were still susceptible to the glorification of alcohol.
The policy this year seems to be pretty straightforward: two weeks of wet pre
rush where no global invitations are allowed, and two weeks of dry rush, where 
everyone and anyone is welcome.
Simple, right? But look at the loopholes!
During the two weeks of pre-rush (which began earlier this week), each 
fraternity is required to have a guest list, limited only in that it must be finite. 
Anyone who drops by and happens to be on the guest list gets in. But since the 
Registrars list of enrolled students is public, most fraternities have the entire 
freshman class on their guest lists! Additionally, while posted global invitations 
are illegal, word-of-mouth invitations are not.
So the administration and the IFC get their PR, the fraternities get their pledges, 
and the students get their fun. Everyones satisfied.
Looking At Both Sides of the Coin
By DAVID LEVY 
Yknow, its only the first two weeks of the 
year and Ive already had three people hand me 
literature on why SEI is bad for Carnegie 
Mellon. There are still some signs stuck on 
poles around campus 
declaring that Westinghouse makes nuclear 
weapons and last week I 
walked out of Kiltie after seeing what was for 
dinner and was asked to answer a few simple
questions about God.
Now, it appears to me that there are a few 
dedicated people who are trying to get a point 
across, while we have another, larger, group 
that appear to be really thick to the dedicated.
I wonder what would happen if we brought a 
couple of each together and they actually com
municated with each other...
I*ve been going to this school for the past 
three years. And every year its somebody
else that just has to hand me a slip of paper 
that says that the school is doing something 
wrong. Why do you guys have to keep both
ering me?What do you mean bothering you? Were just trying to keep you informed! Dont you realize that? I mean look at whats happening in the world-doesn tit bother you? Don t you care about apartheid or nuclear weapons?
Honestly? The only thing I care about 
right now is whether or not I have a chance
to get lunch before my next class. Look, 
youre a student too. Why cant you see that 
between homework and just surviving in 
Pittsburgh, I dont really have a lot of time 
to worry about how things are in Africa.All right then, what about nuclear weapons or power plants. Arent you afraid that your children may grow up deformed, with some disease or not even be able to drink untainted water?
continued on page 9Quality of Life Relies on Communication
By ERIC WITTLE
As I stated last week, communication is of 
fundamental importance to the entire issue of 
Quality of Life. There are several situations 
which clearly demonstrate that communica
tion, or lack of communi
cation can have signifi
cant effects on the Qual
ity of Life.
The first example of lack of communication 
which comes to mind is one that was men
tioned briefly last week. In the process of 
deciding upon the location of the new dorm, a 
decision was made at some point that the 
preservation of the Tech House building 
would not be a priority. Thus, when the plans 
for the new dorm were revealed, a small part of 
the CMU community was very upset. Not only 
had the administration decided to eliminate a 
part of the campus which was important to part 
of the CMU community, but they made this 
dcision without informing the people who 
would be affected. This issue received a great 
deal of publicity last semester, and caused a 
great deal of controversy, which negatively 
affected the Quality of Life for many people.
Problems which negatively affect the Qual
ity of Life often receive much more attention 
tl an those which improve the Quality of Life. 
There have been many cases in which commu
nication between students and the administra
tion has resulted in improvements in the Qual
ity of Life. A great example of this is Dining 
Services addition of an extra meal period for 
their contract plans. Three years ago, there 
were only three meal periods each day, two on 
the weekends. This meant that people holding 
a 19-meal contract could not miss a meal
period if they wished to use all of their meals. 
It also meant that you could only eat one 
contract meal after 4:30 pm. Student input 
through the Auxiliary Services committee was 
the prime motivation for this improvement in 
Quality of Life.
These two examples demonstrate why com
munication is so vital. There are presently 
issues facing the University which require 
greater communication. One of these is the
University Center, which will be discussed 
next week.
Continuing effort to increase communica
tion between all segments of the University 
community can only improve everyones 
Quality of Life. If everyone makes a little extra 
effort to offer constructive criticism to appro
priate people, and compliment those people 
who are doing a good job, the overall Quality 
of Life will improve. It is also important to
Letters:Grad Student Charges Music Dept. With Waste
Editor:
In the midst of shrinking funds for the 
CFA, the new director of the music depart
ment, Joel Thoeme, has taken some bold 
steps to further the cause. Mr. Thoeme has 
embarked on an experimental venture 
which will no doubt diminish the core of 
quality music students at CMU. I foresee 
the music department taking a long slow 
slide into obscurity if such bureaucratic and 
artistic blunders persist.
Example: A week ago a musician moved 
to Pittsburgh to continue his music educa
tion atCMU. He was soon informed that the 
music department was short of funds and 
wouldnt be able to grant the necessary 
monies for graduation. This musician had 
to move back home. CMU lost a good 
musician. The fact is, virtually every musi
cian who received aid last year had their 
financial aid reduced this year. (Im sure 
this happens in other departments as well).
In the meantime, Thoeme and his crew
have initiated a program which flies a string 
quartet in from Mexico once a week every 
month. The music department pays their air 
fare, room and board, and wages. Granted, 
these musicians are good. I have worked with 
members of this group, and I have no com
plaints about their abilities. However, I per
sonally know of numbers of qualified musi
cians who could have been flown in from 
Philly or Rochester who are of equal or better 
quality. Furthermore, Thoeme could have 
hired some of the top musicians from the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra for what it 
cost to fly in this quartet all the way from 
Mexico. Thoemes eccentricities and excur
sions into the financial dissolution of CMUs 
music department include the hiring of a 
World Music Improv" teacher - [improvsomething which should be limited to schools 
with a strong jazz department, not a school 
emphasizing classical musical studies], and an 
East Indian music teacher - [an art which is 
interesting, yet is as applicable to classical
1)
recognize that communication is a two-way 
street Not only does it involve giving others ^ 
feedback, it also involves listening, and ac
cepting feedback yourself.
If you have any comments, suggestions, or 
questions about anything discussed here, I can 
be reached through the SDC office (x2114), 
through campus mail (Box 576), or through 
electronic mail (ewlk@tb).
music as chess is to the real world]. Yoga 
courses, Tai Chi courses and an enigmatic 
World Sound Awareness course are also in 
the offering.
Where will it end? It will end in the wallets of 
Thoeme and his cronies, and in the disillusion
ment of God knows how many students who 
will believe that altered states of awareness 
necessarily make one a better artist
I cant help but view Thoemes extravagant 
New World approach to CMUs already 
ailing music department as forcing even more 
needy musicians out of the department again 
next year. And with the recent hiring of this 
string quartet from Mexico, however good 
they may be, I cant help but foresee the music 
department waver and list like the Mexican 
peso.
[Name Withheld by Request] 
Music Department

---------------------------------------------------

September 9,1987The TartanPage 9
Its time for...
Inquiring Minds: At The Philippines
The Gulf-Going It Alone
The Tartan
David N. Levy
Russ Seligman
Editor-in-Chief
Mark Benish
Managing EditorBusiness Manager
Karl BarnhartMary MurphyBruce Kasrel
News EditorFeatures EditorDiversions Editor
Stewart LevineGlenn SchusterAndrew Gillespie
Sports EditorPhoto Darkroom EditorPhoto Assignment Editor
Nancy St. LouisDrue MillerCeleste Clark
Copy ManagerProduction ManagerAd Manager
Lisa D. McAnanyAlbrecht T. PowellOlve Peersen
Contributing EditorContributing EditorContributing Editor
John FriedmannNeil Greenblum
Contributing EditorContributing Editor
Flashdance  each has its merits. This was a 
revolution aimed at the same audience as 
Grenada.
No, Roger, youve missed my point en
tirely. Lets be honest With the budget Horcason had for this last coup, we should have had 
something more substantial. More innocent 
civilians involved, more grassroots support 
through bribes and influence peddling. It just 
wasnt there for me.
I dont know, the audience I watched it with 
really enjoyed the deception Horcason used in 
telling his young cadets it was all a training 
exercise. I thought that was brilliant, havent 
seen that in a long time.
Ok, it was good, but it wasn t enough to save 
this coup for me, or Horcason for that matter. 
Very funny Gene. Well I guess we disagree 
on this one. Next week, well be reviewing two 
new Asian trouble spots: the labor unrest in 
South Korea, and the latest from Sri Lanka 
about a revolution that came in under budget 
and on time. So long, and save us an aisle seat. The Inquiring Staff is S. Levine, C. Williams, and R. Wilson.
drop in oil as one cause for our sustained 
economic growth. A world oil shortage would 
undoubtedly have adverse effects on our in
dustrial base.
Although at first, our European allies would 
only sit and watch, by dipping our toes in the 
water, our firm resolve has resulted in 
Frances sending of a carrier and three mine 
sweepers, and Britains sending of 9 mine
sweepers to the Persian Gulf. We may not hav<  
made a lot of progress (in terms of overal 
safety) yet, but the fact that the reflaggei 
Kuwaiti tankers have remained relatively 
unharmed, would not have been possible unti! 
someone was willing to go it alone.* * * * * * *
The authors of this column would like N 
made clear to readers that Conservative Cor 
ner articles are written to stimulate thought, 
and to offer a viewpoint that may differ from 
the mainstream at our school. One of the 
aspects of Carnegie Mellon that makes it such 
a tremendous forum for ideas is that people can 
hold beliefs that are diametrically opposed, 
and still discuss them in a reasonable fashion.
By THE INQUIRING STAFF
As the theme music cues, the camera pans 
down what appears to be the aisle of an old 
theater. The lens settles on the image of two 
men: on the left, a tall thin man wearing a ratty 
sports jacket who is 
straightening a toupee; 
on the right of the aisle
----------------- sits a short pudgy man in
a dirty sweater attempting to clean his glasses 
and fix his dentures as the stage lights come up.
.. tonight we will be reviewing the recent 
Philippine coup staged by a relative new
comer, Army Colonel Gregorio Horcason.
By ANDREW ROBITSHEK 
Is it time to start caring about what happens 
on this campus? Did your professor get tenure 
over the summer? You know, the one who 
couldnt teach, the one 
who received all one's 
and two's on his faculty 
course evaluations? 
Dont you wish you could do something about 
this? You can! Let Student Senate know who 
these people are. Also let us know about your 
great professors who didnt get tenured. We 
are trying to find out who some of these profes
sors are but it is easier with your help.
The only way to get some changes in the 
tenure system is to rally behind those profes
sors who deserve tenure and rally against those 
who dont. Tenure is a decision that usually 
takes place over nine years of a professors 
career and takes into account all aspects of an 
ideal professor. This should account for more 
than just the fact that a professor can produce 
a great deal of research money and research 
material. This institution is NOT just a re
search institutionit is also a university with 
over 4000 undergraduates trying to learn and 
get a great education. The worst way to affect 
an education is to start off by having someone 
who can not teach a subject teach it.
The nuclear issue was decided almost 
twenty years before you or I were born. The 
first bomb dropped and the United States 
and Russia have been stockpiling since. Ive 
got no control over it and if one goes off 
theres a pretty good chance we get to see 
what God looks like real fast. Why care? 
Itll be over before we even realize whats 
going on.But it doesnt have to. If we do care about it we can try to prevent it from happening by getting rid of them...
Great. You mean to tell me that the US 
should give up its weapons just so the Soviet 
Union can blow us up at their leisure?!? No 
Way!Thats not what I mean and you know it. We already have more than enough bombs to destroy the earth and its eco-system a hundred times. Even a comp-sci major would say thats too much redundancy. We need to act rationally and make decisions that would help the whole world, not just ourselves.
Point given (for the moment). But why do 
you guys have to put stickers up all over the 
place saying Westinghouse makes nuclear 
weapons? I dont really care. If they didnt 
another company would and even then if 
they stopped they would have to lay ofT a 
bunch of people and there goes the unem
ployment rate through the roof.We dont necessarily put those stickers up. There are other groups besides the ones onThe tall one speaks: Hello, I am Gene Siskel 
and my chubby colleague is Roger Ebert. 
Before we discuss our reactions, lets take a 
look at a few scenes from the attempt. 
(Screen lights up with Colonel Horcason 
speaking into a 2-way radio.) No! Youre not 
allowed to start the parade until after shes 
dead! I dont care how much you paid the 
caterers! Now go back to the Presidential 
Palace and...Hows that? The deposit was nonrefundable! You idiot! We already sold all 
those damn shoes; how are we going to pay for 
that? What was that...travelers checks? That 
just might work!
The faculty of this university have no vested 
interest in the undergraduate body here. Why 
should they worry about the undergraduate? I 
will be the first to admit that some of the 
professors here are excellent and care about 
their students a great deal; not just in class, but 
also out of it. There are also many professors 
who couldnt care less about the class they 
HAVE to teach for a semester and it shows in 
their teaching.
The only way to affect the quality of teaching 
in this university is to have it count more in 
tenure decisions, bringing a vested interest 
back into undergraduate education. With your 
help we can start fighting for the professors 
who deserve tenure because they are good 
professors, not just because they provide good 
research for the university.
This weekend is the Tartans first game 
against Allegheny. Get some school spirit and 
come to the game. Its free and we should win. 
Before the game there will be the Second 
Annual Tailgate Party. It will start at 11:30 on 
the IM field. There will be free food and drink 
and will be a great way to help kick off the 
football season. Stop by on your way to the 
game.Andrew Robitshek is the President of Student Government.
campus and sometimes they do get over enthusiastic. Even so, it is important that everybody knows who is making the bombs. Knowledge used with intelligence is the most powerful thing in the world.
Very true. But when you are going to 
make a point dont scream and smash me 
over the head with it. You just said that 
knowledge used with intelligence is power
ful and I agree. However, it is also some
times important to temper the message so 
that people can think about it. I always get 
the feeling that youre trying so hard to get 
your idea across that theres no rational 
thought behind it. Maybe if youd relax a 
little and explain...How can I relax and explain? You would just walk away, just like you always have!
Well, maybe I wont the next time. You 
picked yourself to be the one to spread the 
word. You should realize that its not al
ways easy.
Nothing is ever easy. School, work, love, or 
the rest of life; it all involves a lot of realization 
of what can and cant be done. The thing to 
remember is the one point that both sides 
agreed upon: Knowledge used with intelli
gence is power. Look at Watergate, how the 
Department of Defense now spends its money, 
and Iran sc am. If you want to make your view 
publicly known, then be ready to support it 
and also remember that not everybody cares as 
much as you do.
Roger, I have to be honest, I was disap
pointed with this latest coup attempt in the 
Philippines. It just seemed like a rehashing of 
all the better previous coups. Weve seen so 
many of these elements before: taking over 
national television and radio stations, assault
ing the Governmental Palace, establishing a 
provisional government, etc. Not only that, but 
this coup lacked the creative flair weve seen 
in many of the previous attempts, especially 
those orchestrated by Ferdinand Marcos. I 
think the public is simply tired of coups. As 
with many of the Third World trends, every 
country copies the previous without adding 
anything original. Any two-bit banana repub
lic can default on its loans*, torture political 
dissidents, and have political upheavals every 
other Thursday. Take a look at Chad, for 
example...
Gene, I have to disagree with you on this 
one. Youre not giving Horcason the credit he 
deserves. I think you arent seeing it for what 
it was. Youre trying to compare it to the 
master coup of 79 staged by the Ayatollah in 
Iran. Thats like comparing ... Amadeus to
Conservative Corner:
By AARON SOLOMON AND 
THOMAS HEIM
An amazing thing has happened in the past 
couple of weeks. Two more countries (Britain 
and France) have sent warships to the Persian 
Gulf (Wall Street Journal, 8/27/87). What 
makes it amazing, is that 
no other country in the 
world would agree to 
help the United States in 
its quest to make the oil shipping lanes through 
the gulf safe when we started the reflagging 
process.
Why is it necessary for the U.S. to ensure 
safety for oil tankers in the Persian Gulf given 
the potential danger of using warships in a 
foreign war zone? Because, although less than 
10% of the oil shipped from there actually goes 
to America, it is economically vital for oil to be 
ensured safe passage. If oil was to stop flowing 
from the Gulf to the many other parts of the 
world that are serviced by this oil, world prices 
would skyrocket, and the world supply would 
drop...thus increasing our prices, which would 
assuredly echo within our economy. Some 
economists have pointed to the past years
The Tartan is a student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon 
University. It is a weekly newspaper, published each Tues
day during the fall and spring semesters by students at no 
cost to members of the university community. It is printed by 
Typecraft Press, Inc. Subscriptions are available for $15 per 
semester, $25 per year. The Editorial appearing at the 
beginning of the opinion section is the official opinion of The 
Tartan editorial board Columns are the opinions of individ
ual authors who are not necessarily on The Tartan editorial 
board or staff Letters to the Editor are opinions of individual 
authors who are usually members of the University commu
nity.
A letter intended for publication must be signed and indude 
the writers address and phone number for verification 
Names will be withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter or column. Copyright 
1987 by The Tartan The editorial board reserves tfie right 
to withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit tor 
publication.
Office: Skibo 50-52 (412)26^2111
Mating address: The Tartan / Box 17/ Cameg Metton
University I Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Funded in pat by the Activities Fee. AH rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.
Faculty Tenure Should Be Based On Ability
Personal Views Shouldnt Be Forced Upon Others
continued from page 8

---------------------------------------------------

ltmdl@mit (Gr<w0,ft
Student Senate Vacancies:
Vacancies are now being filled in the following 
colleges:
Comp Sci 1 Spring Seat
SUPA 1 Spring Seat
GSIA 2 Spring/1 Fall Seat
CIT 4 Fall Seats
CFA 1 Fall/ 2 Spring Seats
MCS 1 Fall Seat
Pick up your petitions at the Skibo Information Desk. 
Due Mon., Sept. 21,1987.
Political Forum Board
4 Students are needed to serve on the Political Forum 
Board.
For more information:
Pick up your petition at the Skibo Information Desk, 
Petitions due on Monday, Sept. 21,1987.
Funded by your activities fee

---------------------------------------------------

F eatures
i
i
What else is new?cIron Citys Brew and 
Carnegie Institutes Bach
By JUDY HARABURDATartan Staff writer
Whats new in Pittsburgh, you ask? Well, 
a certain brewed malt beverage has changed 
quite dramatically. The Pittsburgh Brewing 
Company, along with Lipton Tea, has intro
duced Britt Iced Tea Breezea refreshing 
tea-flavored alcohol beverage. Its low in 
alcohol and calories. The new product is being 
tested in the Pittsburgh market and so far 
consumer taste tests indicate that it is ex tremely popular. A1 Geitner, former Director 
of New Ventures for the Thomas J. Lipton Tea 
Company, comments, ...both men and 
women enjoy a beverage that is light, refresh
ing, low in alcohol and good-tasting. Britt Iced 
Tea Breeze should be served with ice, the same 
as iced tea.
Actually, much of its popularity will de
pend on who the spokesperson isterminally 
^8 .lip Bruce Willis is already taken, so are 
Bartles and James. What about Ollie North? 
The commercial could show him wrapping up 
a tough day at the Iran-Contra hearings. He 
grabs a bottle of Britt Iced Tea Breeze and 
looks right into the camera very sincerely and 
says, You know after a rough day of shred
ding evidence and bending the rules at the 
NSC, I like to relax with the all-American taste 
4jf Britt Iced Tea Breezeits so light and 
refreshing. And its low in alcohol and calo
ries. Then his wife comes up from behind, 
putting her arm around him. He looks at her 
and says, Right, dear? She smiles like June 
Cleaver and says, Yes, dear. Then the scene 
shifts to a bottle of Britt Iced Tea Breeze and 
a superimposed American flag is rippling like
crazy in the background and patriotic music is 
playing and the announcer says, Britt Iced 
Tea Brecze...what Ollie drinks...what Amer
ica drinks.
Moving right along to other things new 
and exciting in Pittsburgh, a couple of the 
nightclubs are offering special events. Mirage 
has an undcr-21  dance on Wednesday night. 
On Thursday, WXXP host Deb Brady spins 
some new tunes. On Fridays, its College 
Night and Ladies Night; ladies over 21 get in 
free from 9 to 12 and get free drinks from 10 to
12. The under-21 crowd is allowed in a re
stricted area with a non-alcoholic bar and 
dance floor. Saturdays are regular over-21 
nights. At The Upstage, its New Wave Night 
on Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, 
and Saturday. Also, local bands are featured 
on Fridays and a WXXP dance contest high
lights Saturday nights.
Over the summer the Carnegie Museum 
celebrated its centennial. The Womens 
Committee sponsored the Carnegie Gala, a 
dinner party which successfully raised money 
to refurbish the four statues that welcome you 
to the museum. Theyre called the The Noble 
Quartet,Galileo, Shakespeare, Bach and 
Michelangelothey represent the purposes 
and services of the Institute. Thanks to Will 
Real, Conservator at the Museum of Art, who 
worked with restorers Dennis & Craine, the 
Noble Quartet has been repaired and pre
served to greet visitors to the Institute for many 
more years.
Now that youve got the lowdown on new 
and different things, you can explore whats 
happening in Pittsburgh.
'How to Get a Date With 
Mac Right...
Many students complain that dating at Car
negie Mellon is practically a nonexistent ac
tivity. After taking a poll at the local hot spots, 
however, we have found this generalization to 
be false. Not only do students ask each out they 
employ an extensive variety of ice breakers.
SPECTACLESBY SARA FLYNN
<JL
A popular place for inter-gender mingling 
seems to be the Kiltie. Here are some lines we 
collected that have been used in the past.
MALE TO FEMALE:
1. Sure is crowded today. I hate to eat alone 
and theres hardly anywhere to sit. Do you 
mind if I join you?
, 2. Dont get the lentil loaf, its awful.^ 3. Im exhausted from football practice, do 
you think you could hand me a teabag?
4. Dont tell me you like spaghetti too!
5. Ive noticed we both eat at the same time 
everyday. We must be on the same wave
length.
Unfortunately out of 45 men asked only 2 
said they were ever approached by women.
I.,1.1 love your shirt, where did you get it?
. Is anybody sitting in that empty seat?
Apparently women do not excel in brilliant 
addresses. They performed even worse, how
ever, around campus. Polling at the library and 
the bookstore brought forth the following 
results. Men asked women for pens, paper, 
pencils, booklists, gum, change, schedules, 
the time and directions. Whereas the women ]X approached the men at all. This leads usrarely
Khethe conclusion that either men are far more
aggressive in socializing and seem enthusiastic 
in the prospect of making friends or they are pre
dominantly disorganized.
The computer cluster presented an entirely 
different picture. Women often employ the 
image of helplessness. Eight out of nine women 
said that, if given the choice between asking a 
man or woman for help, they would turn to the 
man. They also said that they had rarely been 
approached for help by a member of the oppo
site sex. Does this mean that mastering com
puter technology puts us back in the dark ages of 
sexual discrimination? Or do women perceive 
the computer as a tool which men possess an 
innate dominant ability? Why do men prefer to 
ask a man over a woman for help at the term inal? 
It could be the fact that men look better at the 
keyboard than women. It is hardly a campus 
secret that girls go to the Morewood cluster in 
their fuzzy slippers and dressing gowns. Some 
even commit the social faux pas of typing pa
pers wearing athletic ensembles. It is difficult to 
believe that a person with a proficient knowl
edge of the idiosyncratic behavior of a Mac 
control panel would dress like Carl Lewis in 
drag.
So if the Carnegie Mellon female would like to 
gain more respect at the terminals on campus 
she should appear more technically attractive.lt 
is not necessary to go so far as to order pizza 
delivered to ones terminal, but maybe with a 
little more attention to appearance you might 
get the extra attention of that computer geek 
next door.
And our advice for men is Take A Chance! 
Just because the person to your right has nice 
ankles and lipstick on doesnt mean she doeait 
know what shes doing with her disk. She 
probably wants to go to the Tartan Grill with 
you, too.
New Season at CMU Art Gallery: 
Two Big Shows, Sixty-two Big Artists
PITTSBURGHOn the Line; 
The New Color Photojourna
lism, a new exhibtion organized
)y the Walker Art Center, opens 
at the Carnegie Mellon Univer
sity Art Gallery on September
13. The exhibtion celebrates a 
new generation of photographers 
who work primarily in color for 
newspapers and magazines. 
Twelve internationally recog
nized photographers, all in their 
thirties and forties, whose work 
bridges the gap between high 
art photography and news pho
tojournalism, are featured. On 
the Line: The New Color Photo
journalism was curated by 
Walker director of education 
Adam Weinberg.
Photographers included in the 
exhibition are: David Burnett, 
Jeff Jacobson, Mary Ellen Mark, 
Susan Meiselas, Jean-Marie Si
mon and Alex Webb, all from the 
U.S.; Michel Folco, Yan Morvaa 
and Giller Peress, from France; 
Rio Branco, from Brazil; Harrypholo courtesy CMU Art Gallery
Gruyaert from Belgium; and Destroyed house with woman lamenting by Alfred 
Alfred Yaghobzadeh, from Iran. Ya8hobzdahFocusing on pieces created during this 
decade, Drawings of the 80s is deliber
ately eclectic in style and content, says Dr. 
Elaine King, director of the Carnegie Mel
lon University Art Gallery and curator of the 
exhibit. Because drawing is an integral part 
of visual artists creative processes, the 
exhibit will include drawings by painters 
and sculptors that relate to their specialties, 
as well as drawings by artists whose primary 
form of expression is drawing.
Among those showing in the exhibit are 
Mel Bochner and Jonathon Borofsky (both 
CMU graduates), Georg Baselitz, Jake 
Berthot, Mike Glier, Jane Haskell, Ada 
Medina and Terry Winters. The pieces 
range in size from small, intimate drawings 
to a large, site-specific wall drawing visible 
in the gallery window.
Dr. King will give a talk on Drawings 
from the 80s at 2 pm, September 13, at the 
gallery. Anncgreth Nill, Assistant Curator 
of Contemporary Art A the Carnegie Mu
seum of Art, will conduct a talk on the 
exhibition October 10 at 2 pm. These talks 
are free and open to the public.
Drawings from the 80s is part of a col
laboration of nineteen Pittsburgh galleries 
presenting drawing exhibition this fall to 
celebrate the history and diversity of this art 
form. The sponsor of the collaboration, 
Drawing the Pittsburgh Connection, is the 
Helen Clay Frick Foundation.The following 
is a list of the shows and events associated 
with this collaboration.
Bird in the Hand Gal
leryPenny Russell: Ani
mals, an Artistic Affair ; ani
mal drawings and sculpture 
by locatnaturalist artist artist, 
Penny Russell; September
11-October 22, 1987; 741- 
8286
Blatent. Image/Silver Eye 
GalleryRe-Vision: Mac 
Cosgrove-Davies Explores 
Early Photographic Proc
esses; photographic prints 
that look like mezzotints, 
charcoal drawings and watercolors. A large camera obscura, a 15th-century precur
sor of the modem day cam
era, will be constructed in the 
gallery .September 30-0ctober 24,1987; 431-1810
continued on par M
Neither strictly documentary nor uncondi
tionally accepted by the art world, the vision of 
these men and women expressed in their work 
is on the line between the story, or mean
ing, and the look, or form, of an image or 
series of images.
In subject matter, in style, and in the startling, 
unorthodox, sometimes even iconoclastic use 
of color, these photographers are extending 
their heritage into a new arena. As curator 
Adam Weinberg states, In the past twentyfive years or so, photographers working in 
color have recapitulated, in less than system
atic fashion, an astounding array of styles, 
most of which parallel black-and-white styles 
explored by art photographers in the fifty years 
preceding...Recent color photojournalism, to 
the extent that it is still a distinct category, has 
drawn from most of these modes to varying 
degrees. In part, that is w'hat distinguished it 
from the work of the pastthe liberal and 
liberating use of art photography styles as they 
best suit the subject.
Photojoumalist Alex Webb will be giving a 
lecture at the CMU Gallery on October 1, at 7 
pm. This lecture is free and open to the public.
Upstairs at the Carnegie Mellon University 
Art Gallery, works by approximately forty 
contemporary artists ranging from nationally 
known figures such as Jim Dine and Robert 
Motherwell to emerging artists such as Natalie 
Alper and Nina Kayem will be on display 
September 13-November 8 in a show called
Drawings from the 80s.
photo courtesy CMU Art Gallery
Study for The Channel by Jim Dine___________________

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanSeptember 9,1987
1        ii i ii       ....................   'il ...    Runners, Gear-up for One of Pittsburghs Biggest Events
PITTSBURGH- -On September 27,1987 at
9 am, approximately 13,000 runners from all 
over the country (last year forty-two states and 
Washington D.C., were represented) will 
challengeor be challenged by the scenic 
course set through the streets of Pittsburgh, in 
the City of Pittsburghs Great Race. And its 
not too late for you to register. Applications are 
available at all Landmark Savings Associa
tions, Wendys and Kaufmanns Department 
Stores , and Carnegie Libraries, Nissan deal
ers, and various health clubs and sporting 
goods stores in the Pittsburgh area.
To beat the deadline, the pre-registration fee 
of $8.00 must be postmarked by no later than 
September 9, 1987. The late registration fee 
increases to $12.00 for race applications post
marked after September 9. You can also regis
ter .ate by mail until September 21 or at run
ners package pick-up until September 26 at 
Kaufmanns, Downtown, 11th floor audito
rium, during business hours.
Motivating runners to secure the best time 
will be cash prizes totaling $15,000, an in
crease of $5,000 from last year. Cash prizes 
will be awarded to the top twelve registered 
male and female finishers at a post-race 
awards ceremony at the Pittsburgh Hilton and 
Towers, at 11 am. In addition, prizes will be 
awarded to the top finishers in the Challenged 
Division, the Corporate Division and the 
Masters Division. The overall winners of the 
Corporate Team competition will receive, and 
keep for one year, the Great Race travelling 
Corporate Team Cup.
This year, a special bonus of $12,000 will be 
awarded to the male and female who establish 
a world-best time as recognized by 
TACSTATS/USA. As of July, 1987 the times 
to beat are as follows: Male/27:22 (Mark 
Nenow in Crescent City, LA, 1984), Female/ 
31:31 (Wendy Sly in Crescent City, LA, 
1983). The bonus was initiated last year and is 
increased this year by $2,000.
Running Times Magazine rated the Great 
Races 10,000 meter, TAC certified course 
among the four fastest 10K courses in the coun
try. As in the past, the point-to-point course will 
start on Beechwood Boulevard and finish in 
Point State Park.
With a new computerized system introduced 
last year, the Great Race has become more 
efficient and more accurate. Once again a 
computerized registration form will be utilized 
to expedite the registration process and aid in 
compiling results. Each runner will be identi
fied on The Great Race computer database so 
that the results can be electronically fed directly 
to the media.
This is how the system works: Runners wear a 
numbered bib which has a bar code label and 
tear-off tag listing the runners name, sex, age 
and T-shirt size. After runners pass through one 
of the five finish gates, they are directed through 
one of thirty processing chutes. The tear-off tags 
are collected at the end of the chutes and taken
to race results headquarters where they are 
scanned by portable bar code readers and 
loaded into one of eight computers to be 
matched with the proper finish time. Post 
cards listing the contestants place in their 
division, overall place, time and pace per 
mile are mailed the day of the event.
Mike Bums is the official time-keeper for^ 
the second year and promises that this effi
cient bar code system will make the process
ing 50% faster. His company, Bums Com
puter Services of Ann Arbor, Michigan, has 
specialized in computerized timing of run
ning events for the past six years. His com
pany was also selected to provide services 
for the New Jersey Waterfront Marathon in 
Jersey City, which has been designated the  
official 1988 Olympic Trials for men. Bums 
has been race director for ten years and holds 
a B.S. degree in Computer Science.
For more information or to volunteer, call 
the Great Race Hotline at 255-2493.News from Planned Parenthood: A Six-pack for Safe Sex
PITTSBURGHPlanned Parenthood will 
introduce its new condom packetThe Six 
packon September 16,1987 at a lunchtime 
seminar on AIDS for the general public.
The Six Pack is a sampler packet of six dif
ferent types of condoms along with informa
tion on how to use them and how to reduce the 
risk of disease by practicing safe sex. Pur
chases can be made in person or through the 
mail from Planned Parenthood.
The lunchtime seminar, AIDS AND 
YOU:WHAT EVERYONE NEEDS TO 
KNOW, will include factual information to 
help individuals understand AIDS and the 
steps they can take to reduce their risk. In an 
informal setting, participants will have the opportunity to ask questions and sort out the 
conflicting messages they have heard about 
AIDS. The seminar will be held from 12:15 
pm to 1 pm at Planned Parenthood, 209 Ninth 
Street in downtown Pittsburgh. It is free and 
open to the public.
Were holding this seminar and others like 
it to help people reduce their fear of AIDS and 
protect themselves against the disease, 
Dayna Jomsay, Director of Education, said. 
But we also want people to know they can be 
safe and still enjoy their sexuality. Using the 
condom Six Pack is one way.
For more information about the seminar or 
Six Pack, stop by the lunchtime session on 
September 16 or call 434-8964.

.
Cf 
< -
I <^ QCM r szO CD 
CM L
 
& 

* 
high performance
racing
custom wheel building 
road & off-road bicycles
locks
racks
tires
tubes
bring in this ad for 10% off 
good until 10/31/87
(412) 521-BIKE 
(2453)
'Mulct ekeJumj
acn
PRESENTS
RICK CRLRN
and
ZELDR CHMM
SATURDAY
9/128 PM-11 PMWHERRET RM. 
SKIBO HALL
ENGINEERING STUDENTS
1) There is NO shortage of engineers. This lie has been 
mouthed by the two groups that benefit from it: the col
lege professors (full classrooms mean fat paychecks) and 
the corporate executives (increasing the glut of engineers 
means reducing salaries). This nation is in a deepening 
high-tech depression. The College Placement Council 
reports that the number of job offers received by the 
engineering graduate class of 1987 fell by 35% from the 
number received by the engineering graduate class of 
1986. And the number of job offers received by the 
engineering graduating class of 1986 fell by 33.5% from 
the number received by the engineering graduating class 
of 1985!
2) If you are struggling with a course because you cannot 
understand the foreign national who is teaching it, why not 
sue the university in Small Claims Court for the cost of the 
course? This is a legitimate consumer complaint. 
Subpoena the offending instructor to Clinch your case.
COMMITTEE OF CONCERNED EEs P. O. Box 19 Massapequa Park, NY 11762

---------------------------------------------------

THANKS, CMU
FOR PATRONIZING 
OUR
USED BOOK SALE
From Michael Hommel
QuidNunc Productions
presentsCimini Hair Design
2 Blocks from CMU
406 South Craig St. Oakland 
Phone: 621-HAIR
HAIR CUT 
10 BUCKS!!
Walk-ins Welcome
2nd Annual Tailgate (Party
Saturday Sept. 12th 
On the IM field
11:30 to 1:30
Free food and drink!
sponsored by Student Senate
Cbook Correction Form
"Cbook" is the student directory published annually by Alpha Phi Omega. If you 
have moved recently (late August or September), or have other reason to believe 
that the Registrar or Housing has incorrect information concerning your wherabouts, please fill out the following form and return it to:
Alpha Phi Omega, Skibo 54 (AP73@TD) by September 10th
Name: __________________________ Major: ________________ Class: __________
Local (campus) addr: _______________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________ Phone: __________
Permanent addr: ___________________________________________________________
Phone:

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanSeptember 9,1987
19 Area Art Galleries Collaborate in Show
continued from page 11 
The Blue Sky Gallery, Inc.Graphite, 
and Homage to the Pencil; graphite drawings 
by ten contemporary regional artists including 
works by Charles Biddle, Howard Lieberman, 
Kitty Spangler, Illene Winn Lederer and oth
ers; September 13-October9,1987; 687-5446 
Bondstreet GalleryOld Master Draw
ings: The Intimate Notation; September 19- 
October 10,1987;Iecture October 9, 8 pm in 
the gallery; 363-7667 
The Carnegie Museum of Art 19th Cen
tury European and American Drawings from 
the Collection; Fifty watercolors, pastels, 
charcoal and pencil drawings demonstrate the 
variety of techniques and styles of the 
1800s;August 8-October 25, 1987. Boutet 
de Monvel: Master of the French Picture 
Book; comprehensive exhibition of drawings 
by a renowned French illustrator of childrens 
books of the laie 19th century; October 24- 
December 6,1987; 622-3328 
Carson Street GalleryDrawings by Ten 
Contemporary Pittsburgh Artists; includes 
drawings by Mary Culbertson-Stark, Leonard 
Leibowitz, Jim Nelson and Robert Quakers; 
September 18-October 10,1987; 481-8660 
Concept Art Gallery19th Century Eng
lish Watercolors and Paintings; September
12-October 3,1987; lectures, September 17 at
8 pm in the gallery and September 22 at 7:30 
pm at The Frick Art Museum; 242-9200 
The Frick Art MuseumOld Master 
Drawings from Chatsworth; Old Master 
Drawings from the 16th to the 18th century, 
including works by Leonardo, Rembrandt, 
Rubens and others; September 13-November 
8, 1987; 371-0600 
Gallery GOld Master Drawings: Exhibi
tion and Sale of European Works on Paper 
from the 16th to the 18th Century; September
4-September 25,1987; 562-0912 
Hewlett GalleryDrawings by Old Mas
ters from the 16th to the 19th Century; in
cludes drawings by Agostino Carracci, Maratta, Mola and others; September 25-November 8,1987; 268-3110 
Hunt Institute for Botanical Documenta
tionMouton Rothschild: Paintings for the 
Labels; drawings and paintings, including 
works by Dali, Picasso and Warhol, commis
sioned for the wines of Chateau Mouton 
Rothschild; November 7-December 20,1987; 
268-2440
International ImagesThe Supernatural 
World of Juri Arrk, Charcoals, Pastels & 
Oils; second U.S. exhibition of works by Juri 
Arrk, an Estonian artist from the USSR; Sep
tember 19-October 24,1987;lecture, date and 
time to be announced; 741-3036 
International Poetry Forum At Last the 
World Says Yes; poetry reading on domestic, 
familial and mythological themes with musi
cal accompaniment; October 23,8:00 pm, at 
The Frick Art Museum, free admission; call 
for reservation, 621-9893 
Pittsburgh Center for the ArtsDrawn 
to the Surface: Artists in Clay & Glass; ex
plores the medium of drawing on clay and 
glass; September 12-October 11, 1987; 361- 
0873
' The Society for Art in CraftsSix Art
ists: Two and Three Dimensions; examines 
the relationship of drawing to work in clay, 
glass, metal and fiber; September 12-November 8,1987;261-7003 
80 S. 15th Street GalleryDona Groer: 
Pittsburgh Mixed Media Drawings and 
Linda Wallen: Mixed Media Drawings, The 
Woman Saint Series; drawing studies for 
major works; August 29-September 19,1987; 
381-3803
Fkene- 363
Of lcsP PEPPERONI PIZZA $4.lax
Sunday through Friday 3 pm - 2 am 
Saturday 11 am - 2 am
CMU Campus!! Concerned
about AIDS? You should be - LEARN
MORE - AIDS Video will be shown at:
12 noon, 12:35 pm, Sept. 17th & 21st
Wherrett Rm
Sept. 25th Rm. 13, Skibo
The information in this video has been gathered by the Ameri
can College Health Assoc. & is the most current to date. You will 
walk away with a good basic understanding of:
- WHAT this disease is
- HOW it is transmitted
- HOW it can be prevented
Studio Z GalleryDrawings from Begin
ning to Ending; experimental drawings by 
artists of all ages; September 18-October 17, 
1987; walking tours of South Side galleries; 
381-6400
University Art GalleryDrawing the 
Figure, 1600-1987; changes over the centu
ries in the approach to drawing the figure; 
September 15-November 8,1987; 648-2400 
University of Pittsburgh, Helen Clay 
Frick Fine Arts DepartmentSymposium: 
Thinking on Paper; seven important schol
ars of European 16th and 17th-century draw
ings will discuss various facets of major Euro
pean draughtsmanship; October 16-17,1987; 
open to registered participants only; 648-2400
Film on Contra 
scandal to be 
shown at Pitt
PITTSBURGHA video tape en
titled The Secret Team Behind the Iran 
Contragate will be presented at the 
University of Pittsburgh on September 
16 at 7:30 pm in Room 107, David 
Lawrence Hall. Daniel Sheehan, chief 
counsel in the Christie Institute suit 
against Richard Secour, Hakim 
Singlaub, Shackley, and others will 
present evidence of a 25 year Drugs for 
Gun operation to support paramilitary 
acvtivity throughout the third world. 
The Christie Institute, an inter-face law 
and policy center won the case for the 
Silkwood family against Kerr McGee.
Don McLean and More at Fair in Station Square
PITTSBURGHA continuous all-star line
up of top local and international entertain
ersheadlined by the legendary balladeer 
Don McLeanwill be featured at NeighborFair 87, September 10-13, at theFestival Tent 
site at Station Square.
McLean, will perform on Saturday, Septem
ber 12, at 8:00 pm The concert is McLeans 
first Pittsburgh appearance in more than a 
decade.
In addition, some of the best Pittsburgh-bred 
entertainers will perform:Larry Lee Jones will 
bring his smooth country sounds to NeighborFair on Friday, September 11 at 7:00 pm;and 
big band sensation George Gee and His MakeBelieve Ballroom Orchestra will end NeighborFair on a high note on Sunday, September 
13 at 5:30 pm At 4:00 pm ,fairgoers can be 
part of Georges band and help Pittsburgh earn 
a spot in the Guiness Book of World records 
by bringing anything from the horn they 
tooted in their high school band to a kazoo or 
set of spoons.
Also atNeighborFair 87,54 neighborhoods 
will showcase themselves in booths that show 
why their communities are great places to live. 
Fourteen City departments and agencies and a 
dozen cultural and educational institutions 
will also present displays illustrating how 
their services make Pittsburgh livable. In 
addition, the show will feature a variety of 
childrens entertainers and activities includ
ing clowns, characters, puppets, robots and 
games.
Admission is $3.50, and tickets are avail
able in advance at the TIX Booth, Oliver 
Plaza, Downtown.
For more info call 391-1850.
The Roman Catholic University 
Oratory of the Holy Spirit Parish
4040 Bigelow Blvd. 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213681-3181
Masses on Campus
Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration Auditorium (GSIA)
7:00 p.m. Saturday Folk Mass 
1030 a.m. Sunday Folk Mass
(Coffee & donuts are served after Mass.)
Heinz Chapel
12.00 Noon Solemn Mass
Weekday Masses:
CMC] Chapel (Skibo Room 39) 
1230 Noontime

---------------------------------------------------

POSTERS
Tuesday thru (FridayR
10:00
S%!0
-5:00
Patio p
(rain location: Qray D 
Matter Loy) I
N 
T
S
}JL MANY POSTERS
$5 and under 
____
also Una gallery postara - most undar t20
Art reproductions dance, sports, rock and movie stills, laser images. M C. Escher, 
gallery posters, nostalgic posters. Van Gogh, photography. Rockwell. Monet, wildlife 
prints, movies. Picasso. Asian art. animal posters, Harvey Edwards. Frazetta, music 
images, floral graphics, science fiction. Rembrandt, moflern & abstract images. Eliot 
Porter. Rosamond, art deco. art nouveau. Renoir, travel posters, scenic posters. Chagall, 
astronomy, Dali, humor, cars, show business personalities, Ansel Adams. Lilo Raymond, 
contemporary European art and photography...and MUCH, MUCH MORE!
SHOW AND SALE
Sponsored By: TorSes Street Qattery
The $149Sportster 
modem. It brings your 
school's mainframe computer into your room.
Get CompuServe* IntroP!ak-a $40 valueFree!
A Sportster 1200 bps modem connects your Apple, IBM-compatible or almost any 
computer to the world.
So instead of going to the university computer center during regular hours, you can access 
the mainframe computer anytime. Right from your room. You can write or revise your term 
papers. Communicate with bulletin board services. Access libraries. Or even submit your 
assignment to your instructor using your 
campus E-mail network. All at around 120 
characters per second.
The compact, dependable Sportster 
modem is made by USRobotics, one of 
America's leading manufacturers for over 10 
years. So this is no toy. It's a competitive tool - 
for students who want to work smarter, not 
just harder.
At your college bookstore or call for name 
of nearest dealer.
1-800-DIAL-USR,58
In Illinois, call 312-982-5001
Oilf
\[ enured urrrt
---------------
Mobotics
Tha IntaWgMt Chotc In Data Communications
(Do you piay Bagpipes or drums?
fire you interested in (earning to 
ptay bagpipes or drums?
If you are interested in Being 
a memBer of the Carnegie (MetCon 
Pipe (Band, piease caii241-1002; 
or contact either (Dean Waiter,
Warner ttatt, or Jim (McIntosh,
Room 45, SkiBo Tuesday or Wednesday 1 - 5 pm.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanSeptember 9,1987
-  ^
Volleyball Begins Season 
On Friday in Tournament
By NATALIE HAWRYLUKJ aran Staff Writer
As the Womens Volleyball squad begins its
1987 season, there arc changes to be noted - 
several new faces arc appearing, both off and 
on the court.
One of these faces belongs to Suzanne 
Flaherty, the teams new head coach. She is 
replacing Jane Fisk who retired last year, after 
35 years at Carnegie Mellon. Coach Flaherty 
had been on the coaching staff of West Vir
ginia University for two years, and is looking 
forward to the upcoming season. I think this 
can be a good season. The athletic ability and 
the volleyball background is there, she com
mented.
After seeing last years final standings (last 
in the PAC with a 1-11 conference record, 5-
18 overall), Coach Flaherty was surprised at 
the skill level of her team. It never hurts to 
have four seniors around. Especially when 
one of the returning Lady Tartans is Monica
Tennis Starts on 
Friday
continued from page 17
Alice Garber, junior Ann Kim, junior Debbie 
Pcrotta, and junior Carin Reeve.
Coach Lichtman is very pleased with the 
teams progress so far. Although rain has 
impeded the teams practice, he feels the team 
will be ready. Each player is currently work
ing on the perfection of their individual weak 
stroke. It is a very individual team. The first 
match will start at 3:30 pm on September 9 at 
home against Duquesne.
Zalesky, a middle hitter. She was third in the 
Presidents Athletic Conference in spiking 
aces, averaging 3.29 per game. Senior Mari
anne Smith, a setter, is also returning after 
missing last season. Coach Flaherty is looking 
to these women for leadership on the court.
She is also excited about two new faces who 
will be on the court. These are Nicole Hanak 
and Cindy Peperak. Hanak hails from Dubois, 
Pa. and is a potential starter as a middle hitler, 
while Peperak, from Connellsville, is showing 
her abilities as an outside hitter.
The Volleyball squad will exhibit their skills 
when their season opens on Friday, September
11 with the Camegie Mellon Tourney. The 16 
team tournament starts Friday evening at 5:00 
pm and continues Saturday morning at 8:00 
am. Playing at the tourney will be Allegheny, 
Baldwin-Wallace, California of Pa, Carlow, 
CMU, Fairmont State, Kenyon, Lake Erie, 
Mercyhurst, Mount Union, St. Vincent, Way
nesboro, Wesleyan, Westminster, and Woos
ter.
Sports Fans!
It's football season and the Tartan 
will be covering all the action, col
lege and pro. 
Check out next weeks Tartan for:
 Highlights of CMU-Allegheny
 The Data on Diskette Day
 Our NFL Preview
From Allegheny to Emory, Washington to W&J, no one covers the Tartans like the Tartan!
photo by Andy Gillespie
This Saturday it's for real. The Tartans take on Allegheny on Tech Field at 1:30 pm.
Baseball Club Swept in Opener
Dukes Double Up Tartans
By PERRY PIERCETartan Staffwriter
The Camegie Mellon Baseball Club started 
off its season this past week with a double 
header against Duquesne University. The 
Dukes put it to the Tartans, sweeping them 9- 
0 and 18-2. Hitting, or the lack of hitting, was 
the key to vicory in both games, as the Dukes 
pounded out over 30 hits in the two games, 
while the Tartans were only able to manage 
eight
No, Ive never lost a term paper 
because of disk error. But then, 
Ive always used Sony.
f JP JFhen its three 
I Mm M oclock in the 
IT Im morning andW W youre nearly
done with your term paper, 
the last thing you want to 
see on the screen is fatal 
disk error.
Thats why so many 
people insist on Sony.
One reason is that 
Sony invented the 3.5' disk 
drive as well as the 3.5" 
floppy diskette.
Another reason Sony 
floppies are so popular on 
campus is their relentless
reliability. And that goes 
for our 5.25". floppies, too.
After ail, when it 
comes to magnetic media, 
nobodys ahead of Sony. 
Were a world leader in
ewww bbe
audio, video and computer 
magnetic media.
The thing to remem
ber about magnetic media 
in computers is that almost 
any input error can be 
corrected, but lost data 
is forever.
So, instead of learning 
your lesson the hard way, 
trust the diskettes that set 
the standard for the others 
to follow.
Use the Sony.
SONYTHE ONE AND ONLY.
See your participating dealer Sunglass offer good on purchases of 10 of any 3 5 or 5 25 disks while they last. 
 1907 Sony Corporation of America Sony and The One and Only are trademarks of Sony
Duquesnes number one starter, senior Ed 
Rayburg, started game one, and was pitted 
against the Tartans senior Kevin Murtha. The, 
pitchers dominated the early going of the 
game, as both teams started practice in the past 
week. The Tartans managed to get their only 
rally of the game in the second inning, when 
with one out, Pat Carey managed to bloop a hit 
into center field. The next hitter, junior Perry 
Pierce, walked on four pitches. Rayburg then 
threw a wild pitch to Daryl Marvin that moved 
the runners to second and third with one out. 
After that pitch, Rayburg fought back to strike 
out the side and end the Tartan threat.
The Tartan defense held the Dukes to only 
three runs in the first two innings, but then two 
key errors opened the floodgates. The Dukes 
were finally able to solve the side-armed 
throwing Murtha and began to get the base hits 
that were eluding them in the first two innings. 
Murtha(11 hits, 3 strikeouts,and 3 walks) was ^ 
able to go the distance, and hold the Dukes 
nicely with good speed and placement on his 
pitches. He [Murtha] threw well, and I am 
glad to see him pitch this well this early in the 
year, said Tartan head coach Bill Allen after 
the game. We made some fundamental mis
takes, but you cannot win if you dont score 
any runs.
The second game picked up where the first 
game ended. The Dukes came out of the 
blocks early and posted a 10-0 lead after three 
innings. Camegie Mellon was able to get some 
offense in the later innings of this game, as 
singles by Pat Carey, Bruce Nibbelink, Rick 
Chimera, Dan Bly, Matt Pampina, and a 
double by John Reese were good enough for 
two runs.
Despite the sweep by Duquesne, the Tartan 
coaches, Bill Allen and Neil Stoemell are in 
good spirits about the season. We have a lot 
of returning people that are good ball players, 
stated Allen. All we need is to see some more 
live pitching. Having only one practice and 
then going into a game against a division one 
pitcher will definitely show how rusty you are. 
Duquesne is probably the toughest school we > 
will play this year, so we are pleased at how we 
played.
This week, the Tartans will face some stiff 
competition, as they will play Beaver County 
Community College and Butler County Com
munity College. Stoemell added that the 
scl ools we arc going to play now arc more our 
speed, and we should give them a good ballgame.
n

---------------------------------------------------

September 9,1987The TartanPage 17 *
You may be thinking about 
choosing one of the newer 
carriers over AT&T in order to 
save money.
Think again.
Since January 1987, AT&Ts 
rates have dropped more than 
15% for direct-dialed out-ofstate calls. So theyre lower than 
you probably realize. For infor
mation on specific rates, you 
can call us at 1 800 222-0300.
And AT&T offers clear long 
distance connections, operator 
assistance, 24-hour customer 
service, and immediate credit 
for wrong numbers. Plus, you 
can use AT&T to call from 
anywhere to anywhere, all over 
the United States and to over 
250 countries.
You might be surprised at 
how good a value AT&T really 
is. So before you. choose a 
long distance company, pick 
up the phone.
AT&T
The right choice.
Womens 
Tennis Starts 
on Friday
By NEAL A. LEVENE Tartan Sports Writer 
The Tartan Womens Tennis Team is cur
rently trying to ready themselves for the up
coming season which starts on September 9 
with a home match against Duquesne Uni
versity. The Lady Tartans arc coming off of 
a highly successful season. Last year Car
negie Mellon won the Presidents Athletic 
Conference Tournament accumulating 18 
point . They managed to defeat Grove City 
and John Carroll, the squads year long 
rivals, by one point.
Last years coach Peter Hawk will not re
turn this year. According to the new coach 
Dave Lichtman, Hawk could not return 
because of increased business obligations. 
Hawk was last years recipient of the PACs 
Coach of the Year Award.
This is the second time Dave Lichtman is 
coaching at Carnegie Mellon. Lichtman 
had previously been the mens tennis coach 
from 1966-1971. Lichtman was formally 
ranked #1 in Western Pennsylvania mens 
singles. In 20 years, Lichtman has com
peted in 200 tournaments winning nearly 
every major Western Pa. title.
All of last years team is returning except 
graduated senior captain Darla Messick (#5 
singles). Additionally there are a lot of very 
strong freshman trying out for the team. 
According to Lichtman, sophomore Beth 
Cavanaugh, junior Suzy Dottor, and senior 
Andrea Benowitz will lead the team in the 
first three singles positions. He is not sure 
as of yet who will play in which position. 
The final player positions are decided 
through a series of playoffs in which the 
strongest player takes the highest position.
Looking at each of these women sepa
rately, Beth Cavanaugh dominated the #3 
singles position last year going the entire 
season undefeated in the PAC in both 
singles and doubles. She won at #3 Singles 
and #2 Doubles at the PAC Championship. 
Cavanaughs play is marked by its aggres
siveness and strong net play.
Last year Suzy Dottor also had a very suc
cessful season. At #2 singles she finished 
the season with a record of 4-2 losing only 
to John Carroll and Grove City. She made 
it to the finals at #2 Singles and won #2 
Doubles with her partner Cavanaugh. 
Dottor is a very consistent and patient base 
line player.
The last of the three leaders is this years 
captain Andrea Benowitz. Benowitz fin
ished last season 4-2 in both # 1 Singles and 
#1 Doubles. While Benowitzs play is 
marked by her strong strokes, inconsis
tency plagued her last season. Benowitz 
was seeded #3 in singles for the PAC finals. 
There is yet a lot of competition for the 
team's last three singles positions. Coach 
Lichtman stated that he feels any one of the 
squad could still have a chance to fill one of 
the remaining positions. Benowitz com
mented, We have a very strong team this 
year. We have a lot of strong freshmen who 
have a good variety of strong shots.
The returning players from last yearjun
ior Sohee Chung (champion at #5 singles 
last year), sophomore Tracy Boyd (cham
pion at #6 singles last year), junior Jamie 
Nageley (played exhibition last year)- will 
have quite a battle to make the team again. 
The remaining people trying out for the 
team this year are: freshman Mary Beth 
Ashbaugh, senior Amy Fibus, freshman 
continued on page 16
Double Overtime Action Atjuniata
Field Hockey Battles to a 0-0 Tie
By SHAFI KHANTartan Staffwriter
A determined Lady Tartan Field Hockey 
team battled Juniata College to a 0-0, doubleovertime tie in their season opener. The de
fense was simply outstanding; they were on 
for the entire game, stopping Juniata on every 
drive.
A frustrated Juniata offense dominated the 
game with 34 shots on goal to Carnegie 
Mellons 8, but couldnt get a single shot past 
goalie Andi Trump. The defensive line also 
shone by constantly clearing drives before 
they had a chance to reach Trump. Sweepers 
Sue Moll and Hetal Manavati showed out
standing ability as Moll saved Andis neck 
- two times when she stopped the ball after it had 
eluded Trump.
Sarah Fay, Maya Steinberg, and Lisa Vandemeer had several good shots on goal, but could 
not convert on any. The only shot to make it 
past the Juniata goalie was called back due to 
a penalty.
The Lady Tartan defenses play belied its 
relative youth. The Field Hockey squad lost 
six starters from last years team and lacks in 
depth, having only twelve players on the team. 
Head Coach Jan McDowell commented 
though that the freshmen look strong thus far.
Only time will tell if the strength of the youth 
and experience of the upperclassmen will 
blend together to form a successful season.
The Lady Tartans face their next opponent 
today at 4:30 on Tech Field when they take on 
Indiana University of Pennsylvania.
The field hockey team on the move. They tied Juniata 0-0 on Saturday.

---------------------------------------------------

room
The Tl-74 offers BASIC Inogramnun# 
uith a 1M BASK ' kiywtirJ set. There s Constant 
MemorN mJ subroutine utfkibiltty for itdvaneed nonramming flexibility.
stration of our power totals. They build 
such a strong case for themselves, 
our competition doesnt know what 
to make of them. a.
TI programmable calculators 
have all the right functions and 
enough extra features to satisfy 
your thirst for power.
To all you science and engineering 
majors unsatisfied with mere calculators. 
Tl has gixvl news. Your power uxils are
Photb y AnbdGilhndb
The Best Place In Town For A Wing Out! ^ :
Shotokan Karate
To win one hundred victories in one hundred battles is not the highest skill. To subdue the enemy without fighting is the highest skill.
- Gichin Funakoshi
Mike Kalina-Pgh. Press
Over a Dozen Sauces 
From Mild-Mild to Death Sauce!!
Shotokan Karate is one of the oldest and 
most traditional forms of Karate praticed in the U.S. today. It fosters the traits of courage, 
self-confidence, courtesy, and humility while serving as an excellent form of athletic training
and self defense.
Open 3:30 p.m. T H till 10:30 
F-S till 11:30 
Open Sundays - till 8:30
srood421-WING
Beginner's classes start September 8th through the 15th. Come to Thistle Hall in the gym, and wear comfortable loose-fitting clothes. Classes meet: Tuesday and Thursday 7-9 pm and Saturday 11:30 am-1:30 pm.
Shotokan Karate of America
K a non-protit organization teaching Karate-do in America since 1955
Our Rjbs?
Best in the City
Mariams Coast to Coast Dining Guide
eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee lspRIB HOUSE S5S&
Ribs  Chicken  Barbecue Specialties
Funded by Student Activity Fees
o

---------------------------------------------------

September 9,1987The TartanPage 19
Tartan Scoreboard
HEWLETT
PACKARD
Womens CrossCountry Splits
 Dual Meet
By RICH SHIPLEY and STEWART 
LEVINETartan Stqffwriters 
New womens cross-country Head Coach 
Dario Donatelli started his tenure at Carnegie 
Mellon on Saturday with mixed results against 
Duquesne University and a strong squad from 
West Liberty State. In Saturdays meet
 against the two schools, West Liberty took the 
top three spots followed by Carnegie Mellon 
freshman Kristin Bergard and sophomore Sue 
Johnson. West Liberty defeated in the triple 
meet, Carnegie Mellon 23-33 and Duquesne 
18-37 while the Lady Tartans defeated 
Duquesne 16-43. The split decision snapped a 
six meet victory streak the Lady Tartans had 
held over from last season.
 Coach Donatelli has greater designs than last 
seasons unblemished record. He is looking to 
coach the Lady Tartans to their third consecu
tive Presidents Athletic Conference Champi
onship. Leading the team towards that goal are 
last years number one and three runners; 
Johnson and junior Francesca Crannell. Also 
back for the Lady Tartans is last years number 
nine runner from the PAC Championship, 
senior Molly Moritz. They are joined by 
senior Pat Fall, who after running for the 
womens track and field team, has joined the 
cross-country squad for the first time. 
Donatelli also has two freshman he is looking 
to for significant contributions. Burgard and 
Jessica Caplan who finished eighth on Satur
day are expected to help out the team this 
season and be assets for the teams future.
IM Report
Touch Football 
Commissioners
Majors - Paul Masalsky x 5468 
Intermediate - Pat Jeffries x 4299 
Minors - Mike Grzywinski 681-2846 
Womens - Stephanie Janczak x 4299 
Schedules for football are now available to 
be picked up at the IM office in Gym 104, 
tonights schedule (all minor league games)
is:
7:15Zoo vs. Drag Force
AFROTC vs NavyROTC
8:15D.U. vs KDR
Pilam vs DTD
9:15Pika-C vs Boss 2nd floor
ZBT vs NP Completions
Tennis
Commissioner - Mike Hayes x 4086
Tartan Scores
Men's Cross Country:
Carnegie Mellon 17, Duquesne 45 
Carnegie Mellon 15, West Liberty 45
Womens Cross Country:
Carnegie Mellon 16, Duquesne 43 
West Liberty 23, Carnegie Mellon 33
Soccer
Georgia St 4, Carnegie Mellon 0 
Emory 3, Carnegie Mellon 1
Play begins September 9 
Golf
Commissioner - Brian Wilson x 5448 
E J. Birdy Open scheduled for September 
27th at the Schenley Park Golf Course, 
$4.00 Greens Fees, $5.00 Club Rental (If 
necessary)
Entries due September 10 
Co-Rec Volleyball 
Commissioner - Mike Grzywinski 681- 
2826
Entries due September 10 
Faculty/Staff Doubles Tennis 
Entries due September 10 
Cross Country 
Commissioner - Chris Young x4552 
Entries due September 17 
Meet scheduled for October 1 
Water Polo 
Entries due September 17
Field Hockey:
Carnegie Mellon 0, Juniata 0 (2 OT) 
Football:
John Carroll 27, Duquesne 20 
Wash & Jeff 17, Ohio Wesleyan 16 
Pittsburgh 27, BYU 17 
Penn St. 45, Bowling Green 19 
West Virginia 23, Ohio University 3
We know that a 
cheap calculator can 
cost you blood, sweat 
and time.
Investing in a 
Hewlett-Packard cal
culator, on the other 
hand, can save you 
time and again.
HP calculators not. 
only have better func
tions. They function 
better. Without stick
ing keys and bad 
connections.
Through October 
31, you can get the 
cream of the calcula
tors at a non-fat price.
Were cutting $10 
off the HP-12C. That 
buys you more builtin functions than any
one elses financial 
calculator.
And were giving 
away a free Advantage 
Module, a $49 value, 
with every HP-41 
Advanced Scientific 
calculator you buy. 
This 12K-byte plug
in, menu-driven ROM 
was designed spe
cially for students.
So drop by your 
campus bookstore and 
compare HP calcula
tors with the rest. By 
midterm, youll see 
what a deal this is.
1987 Hewlett-Packard Company PG 12703
Tartan Sports Calendar
September 8: Field Hockey vs Indiana U of Pa, 4:30 pm at Tech Field
Sportsline: Football Preview, 8:30 pm WRCT-FM (88.3)
September 9: Women's Tennis vs Duquesne, 3:30 pm at Tech Courts
September 10: Field Hockey at Slippery Rock, 4:00 pm
Baseball vs Beaver Community College, 2:30 pm at Mellon Park 
September 11: Women's Tennis at Pitt, .3:30 pm
Baseball vs Butler Community College, 2:00 pm at Mellon Park 
Volleyball Tournament, 5:00 pm at Skibo Gym 
September 12: Football vs Allegheny, 1:30 pm at Skibo Gym
Men's X-Country at Bethany, w/Grove City, Thiel & Duquesne, 11:00 am 
Women's X-Country at Bethany, w/Grove City, Thiel & Duquesne, 11:45 am 
Volleyball Tournament, 8:00 am at Skibo Gym 
September 13: Soccer at New York University, 2:00 pm
Field Hockey vs Lake Erie, 1:00 om at Tech Field 
September 15: Volleyball at St Vincent w/Waynesburg, 7:00 pm
Div. Ill Football Preseason Poll
FREE $49 HP-41 ADVANTAGE MODULE
with purchase of HP-41. Pur
chase must be made between 
August 15.1987, and October 31. 
1987. See your local HP dealer 
fur details and official redemp
tion farm. Rebate or free Mod
ule will be sent in <i-8 weeks.
Institution (State)Points
1.Augustana (111.)80
2.Salisbury (Md.)74
3.Ithaca (N.Y.)72
4.Central Iowa68
5.Dayton (Ohio)65
6.Hofstra (N.Y.)59
7.Concordia -Mhead54
8.Mount Union (Ohio)51
Div. Ill South Region Preseason Poll 
Institution (State)
1. Salisbury St. (Md.)
2. Susquehanna (Pa.)
3. Wash. & Jeff. (Pa.)
4. Centre (Ky.)
5. Frank. & Marsh. (Pa.)
6. Emory & Henry (Va.)
7. Lycoming (Pa.)
8. Mercyhurst (Pa.)
9. Hampden-Sydney (Va.)
9. Millsaps (Miss.)
9.
10. 
11. 
12.
13.
14. 
14. 
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
OR $10 OFF AN HP-12C.
I______________________I
Susquehanna (Pa.) 
Wis.-LaCrosse 
Union (N.Y)
Wash & Jeff. (Pa.) 
Montclair St. (NJ.) 
Centre (Ky.) 
Wis-Whitewater 
Hope (Mich)
Wagner (N.Y.)
Coe (Iowa)
Frank, and Marsh. (Pa.) 
Denison
50
42
41
38
29
28
28
23
15
12
10
7

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan
OPORTS
VARSITY  IM REPORT  SPORTS FEATURES
Duquejjnej West IJbertx
VOULW6AUU TpN^KNT
'jaUJji PrenezX-Country Win Streak Hits 82
photo by Stewart Levine
The men's cross-country team runs to its 82nd consecutive victory.
At the Emory. Invitational
Soccer Squad Loses Two
By RICH SHIPLEYTartan Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellons mens cross-country 
team successfully extended its NCAA record 
of consecutive dual meet victories to 82 on 
Saturday against West Liberty and Duqucsne. 
The Tartans defeated the two schools by iden
tical 17-45 scores while Duqucsne edged West 
Liberty 27-28. Unfortunately, it was not in the 
style that Head Coach Gary Meckley wanted 
to see. Previous to race day, Meckley was 
quite positive the Tartans could extend the 
record to 87 consecutive wins; however, he 
might not be as positive after Saturdays meet. 
At last years season opener, six men ran the 
five mile course in under 27 minutes. This 
years opener could hardly compare; only 
Keith Stopcn and Pat Noll ran under 27:00. 
The two of them came across the finish line 
together with a time of 26:59. The times seem 
to reflect the injuries and sicknesses that seem 
to be again bothering the team early this sea
son.
What may be the biggest blow to the team is 
the knee problems plaguing sophomore Dave 
Supp since last track season. He had to train 
very lightly over the summer, and is not in the 
shape that he should be in. Last seasons 
number one runner finished 13th with a disap
pointing time. Supp said that his knees felt 
okay for the race, but the lack of conditioning 
held him back.
Senior Paul Carnine ran into trouble later in 
the race when he somehow injured his foot. He 
had been running strong at the two mile mark 
where he was in third place, fifteen seconds
Would You Believe? 
BasebalVs Hottest Team
By JOHN FRIEDMANNTartan Contributing Editor
Now is the time for the contenders to prove 
themselves. Whichever team out of the Mets, 
Cardinals, or Expos that wants most to repre
sent the National League East in post-season 
play has to make its move now. Not in a month 
or two weeks. Now.
But the team that could have a big part of the 
say in whos on top come October 4 is the 
Pirates. So the Buccos are spoilers again. Just 
like in 1986. And 1985. And 1984. And soon.
Its different this year. FirsL the games with 
the contenders are unprecedently concen
trated. Starting September 14, the Pirates face 
Montreal (2 games), r, Louis (2 games), and 
the Mets (3 games) at home. Immediately 
following the week long homestand, Pitts
burgh repeats the cycle on the road for a week.
But the Pirates are a combined 13-27 against 
the three NL East contenders. What difference 
can they make? Consider that last homestand 
the Bucs were 8-1 sweeping the challenging 
Reds and Astros, and taking two of three from 
the Braves.
behind the leaders. Due to the injury, he had to 
settle for an eighth place finish overall.
Coach Meckley feels that the team has a very 
good chance of capturing its eighth consecu
tive Presidents Athletic Conference Champi
onship. The men also will participate in the 
University Athletic Association champion
ships at Case Western, which should pose 
more of a challenge. Meckley feels that mens 
cross-country is the strongest sport in the 
UAA, where the top four teams in the confer
ence are all ranked among the nations top 15 
squads. The Tartans could easily find them
selves in the unfamiliar position of fifth place 
at that meet 
To fare well at the UAA championship and 
challenge for a return to the NCAA Champi
onships, Meckley is depending on many of his 
returning runners to lead the team this season. 
Expected to have a big season is sophomore 
Len Noll, who has looked strong in practice 
this year. Noll, Stopen, Carnine, Tom Ford, 
Tim Berger, and Frank Mayosek are just a few 
of the many returning runners from last years 
squad.
Dan Holland, a freshman from Pittsburgh 
also looks to make contributions; he finished 
third overall on Saturday. Meckley expects a 
lot from him and from two other freshmen, 
Todd Balbera and Bob Weiers. Also new to 
the team and expected to help is sophomore 
Don Kcnally.
Simply put, the Pirates are on a roll. Several 
players had Augusts others only dream about. 
Catcher Mike Lavalliere pushed his average 
over .300 by batting over .400 for August, eat 
your heart out Tony (.236) Pena. A1 Pedrique 
hit .355 for j.e month. Doug Drabek, who was 
2-10 at one point this season, earbed NL 
Pitcher of the Month honors. Its surprising 
that a team whose players have to check the 
name taped over the locker to see who their 
dressing next to has come together so well.
One player that seemed to need to no adjust
ment is Jose Lind. Lind, a second baseman 
who had been with the big club earlier in the 
season, was promoted from Vancouver when 
GM Syd Thrift got serious about dealing 
Johnny Ray. Immediately thrust into the start
ing lineup, Lind was impressive especially in 
the field.
Almost everyone on the Pirates has some
thing to prove. That alone should prevent the 
usual September sleepwalk by a lastplace 
team. And if the Pirates continue to play as 
well, especially at home, the Bucs wont be 
such a favored opponent. Just ask Cincinnati.
By STEWART LEVINE Tartan Sports Editor 
The soccer Tartans started off the 1987 sea
son by dropping a pair of games at the Emory 
Invitational Tournament. In the opening game 
on Saturday, the soccer team fell to Division I 
Georgia State 4-0, and in the consolation 
game, they lost to host Emory 3-1.
Against Georgia St., the squad was able to 
keep it close early, down 1-0 at the end of the 
first half. Coach Gaudioso felt that the Tartans 
could have been tied 1-1, missing two scoring 
opportunits early on. Georgia St. was able to 
break it open in the second half with three 
unanswered goals for the 4-0 victory. Gaudi
oso had lots of respect for Georgia State after
wards saying, They were a very good and 
experienced team. Definitely a Div. I team. 
In Sundays match, the Tartans came out 
slow and it cost them. Emory was able to score 
two goals in the first ten minutes, those would 
prove to be the only points the Eagles would 
need. As Gaudioso put it, We were flat for the 
first ten minutes and that was the game. 
Senior midfielder Kevin Jung scored an 
unassisted goal with ten minutes gone in the 
second half to cut the score to 2-1, but the 
Tartans would get no closer. With one minute 
left in the game, Emory added a third goal to 
make the final score 3-1.
The trip down to Atlanta was part of the 
Tartans inaugural University Athletic Asso
ciation schedule. This schedule adds new 
dificulty to their schedule as was evidenced on 
Saturday. Remarked Coach Gaudioso, It was 
a very tough opening game. Georgia State will 
probably be our toughest opponent of the 
season. I think that if we had met them later in 
the season, we would have done better.
This will be a watershed year for the soccer 
team which has posted ten or more wins each 
of the last four years under Gaudioso. Despite 
the retum of three of the top four scorers from 
last season, it will be difficult to improve upon
lastseasons 10-5-1 finish. Gone is last years 
goalie Reid Thiel who in 15 games allowed 
only 18 goals. Furthermore, the seventeen 
game schedule is full of dangerous opponents. 
The Tartans have already faced one Division I 
opponent and will meet a second traditional 
rival,the University of Pittsburgh, at the end of 
October. Two conference opponents are 
ranked in the top ten nationwide. A weak 
school at most sports, the Bethany Bisons 
weigh in at number nine in the pre-season 
polls. They are followed by the Rochester 
Yellowjackets in the number ten spot Also in 
the top twenty, Washington University.
Leading the attack for the Tartans no doubt 
will be senior co-captain Kevin Jung. Jung 
was modestly described by Coach Gaudioso 
as a big part of the team. The three time AllPAC selection was named a third team AllAmerica and led CMU scoring with eight 
goals and ten assists. The other co-captain is 
another senior, forward Alan Mayr. Mayrwas 
an honorable mention All-PAC selection and 
was fourth on the team in scoring with three 
goals and five assists. Another key Tartan will 
be sophomore forward/midfielder Eddie Park. 
Last year, Park was named to the first team 
All-PAC squad and was third in the Tartans in 
scoring with five goals and four assists. Park 
sprained his ankle at Emory, and its unknown 
how long hell be sidelined.
Freshmen will also be critical to the Tartans 
success this year. Three of them: John 
OMalley, Chris Kasabach, and Justin Pizzella have made the starting lineup. Pizzella 
was also hurt against Emory, when he reinjured his thigh during the first half. Two 
others who look to break into the starting 
lineup are Jeff Lumby and Scott May.
The final piece to the puzzle is goalkeeper 
John Semler. Last season, Semler only saw 
action in two games, but he will be counted on 
to fill in Thiels big shoes if the Tartans are to 
climb their way to the top of the PAC or UAA.
Pirates Hit Their 
September Swing

---------------------------------------------------

Pilar Rioja will bring Spanish-stlye Modern Dance to Pittsburgh this weekend
Here he comes for another semester
Joe Bob Briggs is Back!!!
Remember last year when Joe Kapp, the 
coach of the Berkeley Teddy Bears, 
whipped it out? The way I heard it, there 
was this sports writer who was just 
mindin his own business in the locker 
room, askin Joe a question like, While 
you were gettin your hiney creamed 50- 
18, did you feel like a reetard playin 
chess cause thats what you looked like?
Joe Bob Goes 
to the Drive-In
Just asking. And I dont know, Joe 
didnt like the question or somethin, and 
so he said Do you wanna see my 
whangdoodle, too? And he WHIPPED 
IT OUT. And then Joe got fired and it 
was a BIG DEAL and then the Stanford 
band did a half time tribute to Joe by 
forming theirselves into a whangdoodle 
and then the Stanford band got fired for a 
while.
Anyhow, the whole thing was a big 
misunderstandin. Joe didnt mean it that 
way. I investigated the whole deal, and I 
can report that Joe ALWAYS does that.
It wasnt just that one day. Its just his 
way of expressin hisself, but these days 
people just take stuff so PERSONALLY.
Which is why the 1987 Joe Bob Briggs 
Pac-10 California Surfer Boy Report 
starts out with:
1. BERKELEY: They hired a new guy 
named Bruce Snyder who used to be at 
Utah State, where whangdoodles are 
illegal accordin to state law. A whole 
bunch of his starting players are back, 
cause you cant take their scholarships 
away once you give em out. Predicted 
finish: 835th in a 10-team conference.
2. OREGON DUCKS: The first seven 
teams on their schedule went to bowl 
games last year. They have a freshman 
quarterduck. Predicted finish: 834th.
3. OREGON STATE: The Beavers 
rushed for 43 yards a game last year, but 
thatll all change this year. They re
cruited only TALL runnin backs who can 
fall forward farther ediction: 8th.
4. WASHINGTON STATE: The 
Cougars will throw only 370 passes a 
game this year, 140 less than last year, 
but unfortunately everbodys already 
forgot where the stadium is. Prediction: 
7th.
5. ARIZONA: Bought a quarterback at 
the SMU bankruptcy auction. Didnt buy 
him anything else, cause of three, four 
years ago when the NCAA repoed all the 
Trans Ams in Tucson. Prediction: 6th. 
Could go as high as 4th if nobodys 
lookin.
6. STANFORD: They give the ball to 
an economics major named Muster who 
can do square roots in his head and sit in 
on slide trombone in the halftime show 
after everybodys kicked out of school 
for moon in the stands. 5th if hes alive.
7. YOU ESS SEE: Their star tailback 
got suspended for slappin girls around, 
even though they begged for it So the 
only team that plays in its pajamas will 
finish: 4th.
8. YOU SEE EL LAY: Ever year I 
choose these Hollywood tow-head surfer 
boys to win the conference, and ever year 
theyre out hangin around sushi bars 
soakin their sushis. This year they got a 
tailback named Green that thinks hes 
Humphrey Bogan. Legalize steroids for 
recreational use and they got a chance.
continued on page D2
Forbes Gallery Opens Season with an 
Exibit of Carnegie Mellon Alumni Works
By EDIE LOCKE
P?IStu de nSa?MiSesi 
Last Tuesday night brought the opening of 
the first show at The Forbes Gallery for 1987. 
From September 1st through September 13th, 
the work of thirteen Carnegie Mellon alumni 
will be on display. The various pieces include 
paintings, prints, photography and mixed 
media, as well as iron and paper sculptures. 
Mostly graduates of the late 1970s, the fea
tured alumni are all practicing artists and many 
of the pieces are for sale.
During the week of September 14-21 The 
Forbes Gallery will be closed. Beginning on 
September 22, and for the following three 
weeks, there will be three seperate group 
shows displaying the work of CMUs junior 
artists. Schedules for the rest of the years 
shows will soon be available at the Skibo 
Information Desk.
Openings are every Tuesday night, begin
ning at seven oclock and all are invited to 
come drink, eat and look at the an. The Gallery 
Hours: 10-7, W-F; 12-7, Sat; 12-5, Sun.
GSIAiTli lRECORDLABEL
DDinosaurJYoure Living All 
l::Over Me 1
ISST
2)King Missile ^
. (Dog Fly Reli- |i
ton) ;
Fluting On The 
; Hump
II Shimmydisc
3)Boy Dirt Car jWinter1 RRR
4)Happy Flowers| My Skin Covers | 
Silly Body 
| Homestead
5)French, Fritlvj 
Kaiser, Th
ompson
| Live, Love, Larf, | 
and Loaf 
Rino
6)Nice Strong 
Arm >IHomestead
7 William S. Bur
roughs
The Doctor Is On The Market
Les Temps Modernes
8)Sink Manhat
tan
Liveno label
9)T. HexPeel SessionsStrange Fruit (UK)
10)Dust Devils| Rhenyards GrinRouska (UK)
JOE BOB...............Page D1
Joe Bob reviews the screen classic, 
*tid?Mi e, dp? msSa?Mi?
COMICS.................Page D4
Bloom County and more student stripsENTERTAINMENT  COMICS  CALENDAR  CLASSIFIEDS
Spanish Dance Program Opens Dance Council Season
By LESLIE GRIFFIN
biiSidtsd nSa?MiSesi r1SdeM
If you didnt get go anywhere exciting over 
Labor Day weekend, this coming weekend is 
your big chance to travel. Without going any 
farther than the Stephen Foster Theatre, a few 
blocks down on Forbes Avenue on the campus 
of the University of Pittsburgh, you can expe
rience the music and passion of Spain through 
the masterful dancing of Pilar Rioja.
Rioja will open the Pittsburgh Dance 
Councils 1987 Uptown Series at the Stephen 
Foster Theatre with performances on Friday 
and Saturday, September 11 and 12 at 8:00 
p.m., and on Sunday, September 13 at 3:00 
p.m..
Flamenco dancing, with its percussive use of 
the hands, heels and toes, is perhaps the form 
of Spanish dancing most widely recognized by 
American audiences. While it is Flamenco 
dancing that distinguishes Rioja as a per
former, she draws on several other sources for 
her concerts. Beu?Me, an 18th century Spanish 
court dance is also one of her specialties. 
Romantic ballet, modem dance and dramatic 
collaborations with actors reciting poetry of
ten find their way into her work as well. The 
Spanish word duende or what Americans call 
ielu best describes the performing style and 
source of artistic inspiration for Rioja, one of 
Spains most beloved dancers.
Rioja will mark her Pittsburgh debut by 
performing with an on-stage pianist, Fla
menco singer, and guitarist. The show will 
include eight dances and one solo by each 
musician. Part one of the program titled Ptsg
Sip ntsI?i ,eM dp? dt.? will include Beu?MeA 
romantic ballet, and modem and folk dances. 
Part two is the Flamenco set featuring several 
rhythmic variances in this uniquely Spanish 
dance.
While in Pittsburgh, Miss Rioja will lead a 
master class in Spanish dance technique on 
Thursday, September 10 at 5:00 p.m. in studio 
201 at Point Park College. There are 20 spaces 
open to the general public at $5.00 per partici
pant. To sign up for the class, call the Pitts
burgh Dance Council between 8:30 a.m. and 
5:00 p.m. at 355-0330.
In addition to regular yearly tours through 
Mexico, Rioja has performed in many other 
locations, including Venezuela, Cuba, Kiev, 
Leningrad, Moscow, Houston, Los Angeles 
and Toronto. She has an especially strong 
following in New York where she appears 
regularly at the Spanish Repertory Theatre.
Single ticket orders for Pilar Rioja are $8.00, 
$14.00 and $16.00 for Sunday only. Subscrip
tion tickets for this and the remaining concerts 
in the Uptown Series, among them the Dance 
Theatre of Harlem and the Nikolais Dance 
Theatre, are available by calling 355-0330.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2The TartanSeptember 9,1987
Gratuitous Cow Closeup in Masters of the Universe
continued from Page D1
This year: 3rd.
9. WASHINGTON: No reported armed 
robberies this year by any starters, and I 
cant remember any of their names. Sure 
sign of a GREAT team. 2nd.
10. ARIZONA STATE: Coach John Im 
Just a Po Boy Cooper is startin to get on 
my nerves, but he has all these linemen that 
spend the off-season being trained by 
Gunther Gocbcl-Williams in the Ringling 
Bros. Circus. Lock it up in Tempe. And 
whip it out.
Speaking of steroid monsters, Dolph 
Lundgren has been packin in the beefcakeoglers in the role of a famous plastic toy in 
Masters of the Universe, which is the 
second time hes played a famous plastic 
toy. The first time is when he was Grace 
Jones boyfriend. Anyhow, Dolph sets some 
new Wesson body oil records in the new 
purple laser-ray champeen flick (about 470 
green pulsatin zap lines painted on the film). 
The director they hired is the guy who did 
the Conan show at the Universal Studios 
Tour in Burbank, which, if youve ever seen 
it, you know it has a whole heck of a lot of 
18-year-old greased bodies fallin into holes 
full of dry ice. And thats basically what this 
movies about, too. A whole bunch of actors 
in skullcaps are walkin around sayin stuff 
like, The dark can embrace the light but 
never eclipse it, and this makes Frank 
Langella so mad he dresses up like a 
skullhead stagecoach driver and so he zaps 
Dolph into Southern California fast-food 
suburbs like its a Steven Spielberg movie or 
something. Fortunately, Billy Barty is 
hangin around with Dolph, helpin him fight 
off Darth Vader look-alikes with something 
called a Cosmic Key that looks like a 
muffler made in Mexico out of barbecue
forks. But when skullhead space warriors try 
to kill Julie the High School Virgin With 
Dead Parents, Dolph goes PAST HIS L IMIT 
and has to start kickin some cosmic rear.
No breasts. Fifty dead bodies. One pint 
blood. One motor-vehicle chase (supersonic 
Frisbee surfboards). Laser maggot leg 
poison. Ribs in a bucket. A bunch of stuff 
blown up, including a high school gym and 
a Radio Shack. Exploding microwave. 
Gratuitous cow closeup. Ammonia-in-theface Fu. Laser Fu. Muzak Fu. Drive-In 
Academy Award nominations for Meg 
Foster, as Evil-Lyn, for dressin up like a 
Tammy Faye Bakker hood ornament; Dolph, 
as He-Man, for wearin mean Joe Greenes 
shoulder pads; Frank Langella, as Skeletor, 
for saying To kill him would make him a 
martyr, a saint. He-Man must be BROKEN 
and I am more than a man, more than life. I 
am a GOD; Billy Barty, the most accom
plished midget actor of our time, for sayin I 
dont LIKE adventure and In half a 
kroton, were not going to have a sorceress 
to go home to; Courteney Cox, as Julie the 
Virgin, for saying Its my fault theyre 
dead; we were supposed to go to the beach 
that day; and Gary Goddard for the 
Conan show, and for directin the line 
Live the journey, for every destination is 
but a doorway to another.
Three stars. Joe Bob says check it out
Communist Alert! Chuck Campbell of 
Alamogordo, N.M., says all drive-ins in 
town are KAPUT, even though all anybody 
uses land for around there is to shoot down 
F-16s by mistake. Remember, without 
eternal vigilance, it can happen here. Get 
free movie junk in the mail through Joe 
Bobs We Are the Weird newsletter.
Write Joe Bob Briggs, P.O. Box 33, Dallas, 
Texas 75221.
. ,-iii
He was just this guy in 
my class with coollooking hair. I never 
thought we had any
thing in common 
until we ran into each 
other at Great Expecta
tions.
Sarah and Tim: Hottest 
couple. Class of "87
3ST-" GftCflT KftGTflnans
iOLCISION HAIOC UTTLOS
JUST-A-CUT
,$8.00
Cut only
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED! 
Great Styles Start at
Dic HNf C4bbA>
MUST HAVE COUPON 
Gb>rG_NcEE
es t
FhroyyCU <byhomO
oeTPu?d? RSdp iptTPee w idfuSs.
Offer Expires
MAT 
EKfCGTHTitnS
PREClSON HAIRCUT TERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
687-3500
------
Dolph Lundgren out-body greases Arnold in Masters of the Universe
niOes^
4 piece SfudioSet-up
onlyPnce'31 $319-95
Includes 29 x 42 drawing table  34 swing arm lamp  Tablotle  5 star base padded chair
We carry the largest supply of
ARTIST / DESIGNER I ENGINEERING 
and ARCHITECTURAL Materials 
OFFICE PRODUCTS plus 
CUSTOM FRAMING and POSTERS
ART
819 Penn Ave.. Downtown. Pgh. 355-0444 
411 S. Craig St.. Oakland 683-4444 
Open to 6.30  Sundays 1 to 5

---------------------------------------------------

September 9,1987The TartanPage D3
0
This Week in Doherty 2210
OplMi1tfA ?Pd?T-?M 4E 
Menage
From the director of Going Places comes 
a black comedy of sexuality and a clever 
variation on the romantic triangle.
The film tells the story of Bob, a burglar, 
whose sexual tastes have undergone a drastic 
change in prison. He meets a down-on-theirluck couple, Antoine and Monique, and con
vinces them to join him in a series of robber
ies. The meek Antoine is disturbed when Bob 
begins making advances at him. Hes even 
more disturbed when he finds himself slowly 
responding.
Menage is witty and cynical film with 
oddly lyrical dialogue.
Director: Bertrand Blier
Stars: Gerard Depardieu, Michel Blanc.
peR dST?i5 9A8A4EA4N
7MS1tfA ?Pd?T-?M 44
Goonies
Yet another Steven Spielberg original, 
this film is uneven at best One minute its 
frustratingly weird and inane; the next, 
something interesting and funny happens.
The films story is about a group of underprivilged kids who, when faced with the 
demolition of their housing project, embark 
on an adventure. They find a secret map and 
begin search for buried treasure. Nothing ex
ceptional here.
Director: Richard Donner 
Stars: Sean Astin, Josh Brolin, Jeff Cohen 
peRdST?i5 9A8A4EA4N
tdlM1tfA ?Pd?T-?M 4N Vamp
With a very off beat comic approach, 
Vamp is an effective comedy-shocker. A 
trio of college students who, in order to get 
into the best frat on campus, must find a 
stripper for a big party being thrown that 
night. After seeing the outrageous stripping 
of Katrina (Grace Jones), they pick her for 
the job. Unbeknownst to them, she is actually 
a blood-thirsty vampire.
The film is visually impressive and features 
some very convincing special effects. The 
dark mood of imminent destruction makes 
this film a first rate horror flick.
Director: Richard Wenk
Stars: Grace Jones, Chris Makepeace, Gedde
Wantanabe
peRdST?i5 9A8A4EA4N
ls1tfA ?Pd?T-?M 43
Multiple Maniacs
Typical Waters fare. Outrageous, degener
ate, and funny film strarring Devine. She 
operates a Carnival of Perversions, which 
is a front organization to lure unsuspecting 
suburbanites into a trap.
Inspired by the Sharon Tate murders, the 
picture ends with a living-room massacre; 
then Devine is raped by a crazed fifteen-foot 
boiled lobster, and runs through the streets 
foaming at the mouth.
Director: John Waters
Stars: Devine, David Lochary, Mink Stole
peRdST?i5 9A8A4EA4N
Second City Fills Graffiti With Laughs
Entertainment Staff Meeting:
Wednesday, September 9th (Today) @ 8:00pm 
In the Tartan Office, Room 50 Skibo 
All interested writers are invited.
By AMANDA COHEN
OtMdts oeT?1f oMSdSI
When a comedy troupe is allowed to amass 
its most successful sketches from over 25 
years, polish the particularly appropriate ones, 
teach them to new members, and take them on 
the road, the result will naturally be a smashing 
performance of comedic art. When that com
edy troupe is Chicagos Second City, those 
sketches all have another common factor that 
makes them even more exciting to watch. All 
of their sketches originate from improvisational games: they are presenting comedy that 
was simultaneously written and performed. 
For their show at Graffiti last Saturday, The 
Second City touring troupe performed their 
works with skill and pride.
The members of the Second City touring 
troupe sang, danced, and acted a series of 
flawless pieces, and naturally, everything was 
funny. Second City represents a pinnacle of 
American satire, and their sketches skewered 
almost every aspect of contemporary living 
and thinking.
One outstanding sketch depicted the re
hearsal of an ancient Greek play. The Greek 
chorus got the first laugh, because they spoke 
together even when they told off the director. 
The sketch expanded and introduced a charac
ter named David Mametus who wanted to 
improve the play by incorporating more basic 
languagea blatant reference to the Chicago 
playwright David Mamet and his style.
Of the 26 scenes that make up the troupes 
standard touring act, only two were freshly 
improvised, and those two used standard 
improvisation exercises. The rest of the 
sketches had been handed down from genera
tion to generation of performers, carrying with 
them a history of the Second City style and the 
legacy of past stars.
Christina Dunne, who has been working with 
the touring troupe for a little over a year, said
that they only recently dropped a sketch writ
ten by John and Jim Belushi. Its kind of neat 
to have that background, she said of the roots 
of the show. You think, John Belushi wrote 
this, and youre performing it, and Betty 
Thomas was in it, and now youre doing her 
role.
Each actor had at least one solo moment in 
the course of the show as different sketches 
called for varied talents, from Judy Scotts 
musical progress on Surrogate Mama to Bill 
Cusacks physical skill in imitating Mick 
Jagger. His wagging lips and bouncing knees 
could have stood on their own outside of the 
sketch, but they were priceless within the 
context of the scene.
With so many sketches and characters to keep 
in order, one might imagine that the show 
would tend to drag or that there would at least 
be periods of lull between really interesting 
sketches. Not at all. Simultaneous entrances 
and exits kept the audience paying full atten
tion throughout the show. The stage was never 
empty, and perfectly timed blackouts and 
incidental music made the show appear as 
orderly as a well-edited video production. To 
keep such control without letting the show 
look packaged was quite an accomplishment. 
No sketch ever served as filler, and every 
sketch met and deserved hearty applause.
The troupes show was divided, cabaretstyle, into two generous acts, each of which 
ended with a rousing ensemble musical num
ber. A salute to manliness closed the show, as 
the men discussed the fact that it was bad luck 
to wear clothes while watching sports on tele
vision. The women eventually joined them for 
a chorus of Men in our Underwear. Had the 
performers not gone directly into their curtain 
calls after that act, it would have been hard to 
tell that this was the closing sketch. Every 
scene in the show was strong enough to be a 
grand finale.
f>
All booked up?
Theres always a price to pay for a degree.
Or for a job well done. But theres one 
reward that doesnt have to cost a lot.
Op? *liSI olM?c
For only S5.00 a concert you can discover 
the remedy for the common semestersix 
Sunday afternoon performances by the 
Pittsburgh Symphony. Other 1987-88 
subscription packages have also been 
discounted with the students 
budget in mind.
The Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra. Relaxing. Invigorating.
Soothing. Just what the doctor
orderedin a dosage especially for the overw orked student 
Join us for the 
1987-88 Season.
THE SUNDAY SERIES (B6)
Our most popular student package 
for only $30.00
Nov. 8 LORIN MAAZEL, conductor 
PETER LIGHTFOOT, baritone 
MENDELSSOHN CHOIR,
Robert Page, director 
Op? *liSI e, *ektMdA BSk?d tdS1 jSuuStT IplTtsc
Nov. 22 YURI TEMIRKANOV, conductor 
ELMAR OLIVEIRA, violin 
OuJ *liSI e, *liieM.iKfA *ektMd ts1 OIptSKeaiKfc
Dec. 13 MICHAEL TILSON THOMAS,
conductor 
MATT HAIMOVTTZ, cello 
Op? *liSI e, ntpuA <tf1s ts1 B??dpeTSc
Feb. 21 CHARLES DUTOIT, conductor 
ANDRE WATTS, piano 
Op? *liSI e, B?MuSekA B??duTMs ts1 peidtKeaSIpc
Mar. 13 CHRISTOPH ESCHENBACH,
conductor and piano 
Op? *liSI e, *ektMd ts1 BMlIKs?Mc
April 10 GENNADYROZHDESTVENSKY,conductor 
VIKTORIA POSTNIKOVA, piano 
Op? *liSI e, *ektMd ts1 peidtKeaSIp
SERIESDAY#of
PerformancesPRICEPrice per 
Performance
B6Sunday6$ 30.00$5.00
AlFriday12$ 66.00$5.50
A2Friday12$ 66.00$5.50
ClSaturday12$ 66.00$5.50
AFriday24$108.00$4.50
late a Music Break.
Seating is limited, to order call392-4821THE PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY

---------------------------------------------------

riiHfw
03 N339 1.N3WH 
OQA 3N03M09 Qi 0713H 
AK-&3H /OT00 091V 
JJ IM ANIH9 91 JWM Uq3?TT / ST RebS n 3W31 l.NOd / 3A1W
Amin 
iwiu 09 
M33 mm
bbW*d V j d 
AJ3WW\t30imwco 3Hi 93WIL
MON 3A3N N3dOWnm sioi ddv 39mHD1L-IH m M0TJ33 93WLL M01WH N3d0iM /93WIL M0710H t INt I
 AdNt /
300t S..J.WNV19MW
, no Nv Noowr tmvw 1W0HJD. 
3HL V9N)
/ 3H3H1 imi
/ 33Hl /3N0 3MH1
, 'AdNt 1
nyynwv loc
ATWimm/. 30 109 
I 9JJAvmov
y, VH ' 3H0NW1 i0>UT 1RlT mao oew.
y\Wl X9V1. 3*E L34vK*EE
i / mono 3m
.Nrrm \ WrJ
MNIt /
 ONI Hi 101009 
T13HNIdf)dN3
Hsi-dNoz immm u mit no
3W993W t HUM 3MWMIN30093'9N3>Old t 30 QL 
9NK) 9IH1 91 3M 390DX3
 H3 Ad31 
,X) /VA 3W 3H" 
H3 19J t)OA JO 90NIHI 
d3A013ti 3HL N3il0003 
 Hd M3N 9,1 t Hi 
TW HUM d3fiitN3
/AOQ 
AdM 1HW y 
WC DE3< f jW 
ni rm
/ Q3N0r 
93\NIL N30W. 
d3A!T0 319MsT Y*STd
) IV# V/iMNM 
/ r7 o/SSW 
3AIV^< ..dZIWTOO, 
A1000U NtlVJ M3N 390HL 
AWt99303N JO 3N0 
l,N930d -M3N HDJiffl Qi 
njQl N3203 1WM .NO 
AN INtM I Od 'Ht) nOA 09 
3HU3N dNV ON
fa') t
/trfI Vk / ON 11130
A11N393! 19tT
3V10W N 3,t)0A
91N\t 3Hi HIIM
cs de m cfr 
woox nm QL oo
H At9 l,NOd 
Nit AV9 QL 
ty/09 3X.00A 
IhtHM MON 1 
LI A& 1.N0\ns \ne
wit&jsr) 
ION flOA 
W3H LNW I
>j3pC x
301 X3A0  tK dlQL 
1N3W3AOWJ 1 WH ~ IMI 
W 3AtH OIHOtl9ld 3W 
I   3/319 130 b!A did
dMO Nt3G 
Nt 3Ml1t)0 19V3A 
91 li dNV "lt3993d 
N370HJ JO 3rdt)J 
3Hi N339 3MHI
tUQL
AW3X0 'noo ^ 
'1337 3HL NO 
"1XM0 N320X3 H93X3 
'1U0M 3H1- AIO
W A)/niM3D js/Z 3Hi 
 C1M d300ttd 
3 H9/103 3Hi HIM 0N!Mf3M9 dNV ONIX
-LJ i'i)~ :2ZZ3 'Wd
^ "BONOl ! ,us y -tdONn / AW990d ainoo i 'm
lAI3WA01d\A/3 d3t)NLL  
m -NOO A W NO 19INI M
m, tOA '3A3M0H J! ,M
/ 3f!NHD3L ^ 
N0I1N9I93X 
N0HUN0I93M-N0N 
211H9 30X039 
3H1 HUM >03tL 
* rf ' ^
N0lltN9l93>l AW 
3310 9tHi 1 193Wdd 
1N3M9H3A NI dW 
3AW01JX3 Nt 1\M0m 
91 ONIJJim 31t\A)
'9jy0d990d0 TVKM t 01 ' aw IM MM 9tH 3DN3XNO0
mC iQHomo m
s U931J
\ ^ 3ACT)
' 93T3JVJ 30
Odi 9t19 X39 Nt Hi 
HO J3H10 0N!H13\M09 
9tt N31M 30 AIIHL 
dlOD t)OA Al NO 
3! "l3tM3N 9W
awn?QLtlOd-HOOD 
ON1H3HO 9t 
mm jo 
XNIHL I
19fl30103fW I 
Nt 9t A13109 N33Q ? 
0Ni3a J033U M - 
3ANUNO0 LNVO y, 1 AWO IMJ
AW3X
noAOd
<1
o
o
eas
w
a
p
3P
U
n
6
wSO|UIO[)

---------------------------------------------------

InkspotsBy Kurt ShawLife in the Frat LaneBy William Barnes & Matthew Diamond
Mjz fteTM, UMftT 
WOU> HWfW Fr
UfTtC OM VJOURt p wwnisifr >
-maoiouifr WM )WUNfc IS WT S HE 1bP6 OF IMMICmenoNX ecr^
TD H' WMUS! J
ARLAME
BRAD? PHJUSTNE.* P?ISt ud* eInaM rogume oocb err !
P?IStdEUggyr
In
1-^TEoWDlWSr
Wrto
^KfcCAUfcS
UW... FRWK HtlNl. FCCSH**J? 1 UX*E* IP y>VLl> CD**H* 
JWWWfrJV FC#TIRMT\J... J
iSs,pX? V,GM;MGfM M
MHMt UN
Dto^ndl
Luck Dodgers
...A MAM CdrrH A ,S-$eO7hCz 
and a Fbor<yF THAT 
Looks u ke^a cJATlFt*MU>N
... A MAN oii-rrt 
mib ,sm rS1AWeuruRe
eBlg.nA*D mcInHGI>c 
HIS VEiMS^.
...AMAM CITHsmeN&TH~
___N cNc d*mi 
oCmhboM;
THAT JUST 
-He a>HoL>
EFcmi i* rN*mirs, *dp*Nc eSc?NhGGSc mocy * cbFcCUSI< miO ?,NeOm MTR <swm fcm -cSs4 iSs5 mB THANK
OMTH H\S 
LOCK riGMTS
GROUP OFF FAITHFUL PUMPS,  YtMSt, Famous ReSUUHG Me ^y_-TWyr Au>e>k<
Q ALL SoCTS <* Zbock starL'SreuA oite'AND ,s JnfTfW^O rt
*udenaunn M
ks
rr
V'
*HOLfciMG- A 
PARTY
<Sf
*B -. i su,*p, R9FAb 8mC LOCK
7
V
If Vu cam do etTHfcfc owe of Te^e 
miIcf7C 3Bl GwNM dNM cgcg * mNf f mk A COtKlC' sreiP fc^2- TWA. Jj Afc^
Utt/U6- ID 6pgATi.V TM6SCAS- THE> N0M6R- OF StvPC/JT-'PPODUe^P SffctfS U?- frtNlES fmmjIG_ JI 3BB NEKb qamfbmS Ic LXtfrtO ht$>/0L PRAfcJtN* A StP. 6DWB- TO T\^
mN1mNa SII.b (K0OI* W0 <a -hnS5

---------------------------------------------------

Page D6The TartanSeptember 9,1987
Classifieds
Jobs/Wanted
Child Care / Housekeeper. Looking for person or 
couple to live in our large Shadyside home to help 
care for 6 mo. old. Walking distance to CMU. Nonsmoker, child care experience preferred. 683-4886.
Telephone Sales: Part time position 6-9:30 p.m. 
Call from our Shadyside office for non-profit or
ganization. 6-10 positions. 363-4953 - afternoons.
Feminist Restaurant seeking cook, assistant cook, 
and wait staff. All skill levels welcome, call 381- 
1700 after 7 PM Wednesday through Sunday.
DRIVERS NEEDED for delivery. Automobile 
required. Call Bubbas 362-6900 for Amanda or 
621-1500 for Rick. Approx. $6-7/hr.
Free room and board for special, family-oriented 
person, for help with evening and early morning 
babysitting for beautiful little boy. Free weekends 
(some flexibility expected), opportunities to earn 
extra money in off hours; use of laundry facilities 
for free, use of stereo, TV, kitchen, VCR, maybe 
limited use of car. Call Debbie after 6:00 or week
ends at 441-4859.
House for sale: Oakland, newer 2 story brick, 3 
bedrooms, integral garage. Quiet street, move-in 
condition. Minutes from university. 681-6604.
For Sale
FLOWERS FOR SALE...Craig and Bayard Sts. 
Rose bouquet $3.95, mixed bouquet $3.25. 
ALEXS FLOWERS 6874128. Delivery 687- 
4128.
Mise
Books! New bookstore with large collection of 
independent, alternative, theatrical, and literary 
books. Also new jazz and new age tapes and CDs. 
St Elmos, 2214 East Carson St South Side. Take 
54C bus from Oakland. 431-9100. Open until 9.
Parties...Parties... Parties
We have everything for your party at Papermart - 
One stop party shopping. Halloween, X-mas, New 
Years, and much more. Over 10,000 square feet of 
party. Party favors, decorations, and a wide variety 
of novelties. Close to campus - Morewood Avenue 
at Baum. 681-8900.
Meditation workshop to handle stress and in
crease productivity. Sept. 13,10 AM- 12noon.Fee 
$20. Call 682-2128.
Meditation workshop to handle anxiety and de
velop peace of mind. Sept. 20,10 AM -12 noon. Fee 
$20. Call 682-2128.
C.M.U.s Department of Defense Software 
Engineering Institute (Programming for Star Wars) 
located by Fifth & Craig Vigiling Schedule: Mon
day- 8-9 am, 11:30 am-1 pm, 4-5:30 pm, 7-9 pm;
T uesday- 8-9 am, 11:30-1 pm; Wednesday- 8-9 am, 
11:30 am-1 pm, 4-5:30 pm; Thursday- 8-9 am,
11:30 am-1 pm  Leaflet CMU, Forbes & Morewood, & 4-5:30 pm, 7-9 pm; Friday- 8-9 am; 
Saturday- Noon-1 pm River City. Call 231-2766 to 
schedule a time to help with vigiling. Duncan & 
Porter House. }
RESEARCH PAPERS. 15,278 Available! Cata
log $2.00. Research, 11322 Idaho, #206XT, Los 
Angeles 90025. Toll Free (800)351-0222, Ext 33. 
Visa/MC or COD.
Services
Housing
Immediately Occupancy 2 bedroom, furnished 
apartment. Nice and well maintain, five min. from 
Pitt and CMU. No kids/pets. $380 plus utilities. 
Parking available. Call 655-1872. Preferably 
graduate.
Roommate wanted to share large house. Clean and 
quiet. Private bedroom, furnished living room, 2 
baths, fully-equipped kitchen and dishwasher and 
microwave. 5645 Wilkins Ave. 521-5069 or 682- 
0838.
Sam Maloof:
woodworker
Pesi?M?1 -f o7b ts1 dp? n?PtMdg
T?sd e, n?iS.s 
Friday September 11, 1987 from 
10 am to 4:30 pm (with lunchbreak) 
in Mellon Institute Auditorium. 
Mr. Maloof will give a demonstra
tion workshop on his approach to 
furniture design.
8 pm Breed Hall, MMCH. Mr. 
Maloof will present a slide lecture 
on his work.
For more information, call 268- 
2828.
TAMETHOSEWILDENDS.
Control them. Subdue them. Then make 
them luxuriant. Thick-Ends is the sensa
tional way for getting dry, damaged ends to 
behave beautifully. Just leave on after 
shampooing to condition, moisturize and 
add thickness. And see how civilized your 
split ends can be.
Lewis
813 S. Aiken Avenue  Shadyside 
682-40631987 Sebastian International, Inc.
r1OO pO,*MO13 r1OO pO,*MO13 r1OO pO,*MO13
OUR GUARANTEE: Bubba's Breakaway will deliven the best tasting SUBS to your door FREE._______
subs sandwichesspecialties
THE BEST TASTING SUBS IN PITTSBURGH
WE USE ONLY THE FINEST QUALITY INGREDIENTS
SUBS
Man) Salami 
Meatball 
Turkey Breast
(Ham. Turkey & Roast Beet) 
Hoi Sausage
PIEROGIES
Handmade in our kichene
7"142.644.572.995.072.995.073.325.373325.373.325.373.646.273.726.39
4.126.593.325.37
610 an order
Tosseo Salad Chet Sated Soup of the Day
Coke. 01 Ceke. Sprite, ice Tea 16 Bottte
2.903.50 1.753.50 1.45 .99 .32
.60
Minimum order for delivery 5.00
STORE HOURS: 
11 am til Midnight 
Fti/SaJ. 11 am ti2i
In Oakland 
CALL 621-1500 
326 Atwood Street
In Shadyside 
CALL 362-6900 
258 Highland Ave.
Cleaning Service: Experienced, reliable person 
will clean your apartment home, dorm, office. Own 
equipment. Excellent references. 422-3702 (24 
hours).
PROFESSIONAL FAST TYPING done in my 
Bridgeville area home- Monday thru Friday- 8 am 
to 3 pm. Ask for Jane 221-2719.
ouot1 l ( .^t Un n g  ,I litL I- I I 
1C I I I le r I ! icen
SAVE BIGON HEWLETT-PACKARD CALCULATORS
1 Advanced statistics HP-28C
1 Unit conversion state of the Art' 250 Programmable Scjent|fic Calculator
commands and
functions c 1|
 60 direct keyboard / __ i
commands1 Separate alpha and 
numeric keyboards 1 Four-line LCD display 1 Infrared printer interface
 Folding damsheC' case Mfg Sugg. Ret. $2351 Battery power (3 N * 
Cells) $175
HP-41
Hand Held Computing System
Portable. Battery oper
ated Carry the HP-41 in 
your pocket or briefcase 
Built-In operating system. 12K operating 
system allows for immediate solutions to comMfr Sugg Ret $179  Four input/output
I* 4 EV( Port* Plug >n ROMSoftware modules or add
to existing memory 
HP capacity with plug-in
memory modules 
Mfr Sugg Ret $249  HP41CV-2233 bytes of
T i,., memory or 319 data
X | registers
. HP41CX-3122 bytes of 
Send proof of purchase memory or 446 data 
to Hewlett-Packard and registers plus time and 
receive FREE Advantage calendar functions. 
ROM Module. Offer good 6/15/87
Mfr Sugg Ret $49____________thru 10/31/67
_ , HP-12Cii 11 Financial Calculator
$62.00*
Price reflects $10 mail-in 
The idts1tM1 for Finance rebate from 
and Real Estate Hewlett-Packard
 Solve interest and J70 Price
amortization problems  * * pnc*
 Discount cash flows >10 Rebate
 Find bond yields & ----------
maturity dales $62 Your Final Cost
 Determine deprecia
tion schedules Offer good 6/15/67
 Examine business thru 10/31/67
trends plus shipping 6 handling
> MWIC tclewtWc___________________Ml K>1C M, olawMMc__________71 lHC Pmremwr____________6 IIT1IC lueheee CwmOU____>ll> HWM40*WWwler-MCflC >1
 HN2104A Card ReaderHR-41___13 HHI14M Itewnl Prlteerl-41|T> 
 HMM TMnhJet WwHr |M|
Hwrttt-PsckwS^
 HEWLETT 
PACKARD
eNsmSsrIOO 007Lv7vLYEXCEPT IlMtt, ALASKAeNcN?*xvmu riOO :72W7YvZZ
Accessories discounted too. MasterCard or Visa by phone or mail Mail cashier's check. Money Ord, Per* Check Sorry noC OO s. Add $4.00 1st item(AK. HI. PR, add $101st item) Si ee addM shpg A hand! ShptstolL address edd 7% tax Prices subi to change University/coMegs P.O  welcome WRITE (no calls) tor free cateto Idem Replacements within 30 deys of purchase for defective mdse onfy. ALL ELEK-TEK MERCHANDISE IS BRAND NEW. 1ST QUALITY ANO COMPLETE.
O,Oh7mOhC n6>_

---------------------------------------------------

September 9,1987The TartanPage D7
.Calendar
Richard M. Cyert will have open office hours 
for students between 2:30 pm and 5 pm, in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Wednesday, Octo
ber 7. Students who wish to meet with the 
president should telephone his secretary at 
268-2200 to set up an appointment. 
Constructions With Light, exhibited by Jane 
Haskell. September 13 through October 4. 
Pittsburgh Center for the Arts, Fifth and Shady 
Avenues. Gallery Hours are 10 am - 5 pm, 
Tuesday through Saturday; 1 pm - 5 pm, 
Sunday.
On the Line: The New Color Photojourna
lism. An exhibition of color photographs 
organized by the Walker Art Center in Min
neapolis. September 13 through November 8. 
Carnegie Mellon ArtGallery, 407 South Craig 
Street Gallery Hours are 10 am - 5 pm, 
Tuesday through Friday; 11 am - 5 pm, Satur
day; 1 pm - 4 pm, Sunday.
Drawings from the Eighties. As part of the 
citywide Chatsworth Collaboration of draw
ing exhibitions, the Carnegie Mellon Art Gal
lery features contemporary works on paper. 
Gallery Hours are 10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday 
through Friday; 11 am - 5 pm, Saturday; 1 pm 
#- 4 pm, Sunday.
WRCT News. Interested in what goes on 
around you? Like to hear yourself talk? 
Become a news announcer. No experience 
necessary. First meeting Tuesday, September 
8 at 7 pm, in Skibo Rm. 13.
The Roman Catholic Oratory celebrates 
Mass on campus at 7 pm, Saturday night and 
10:30 am, Sunday morning, in the GSIA 
Auditorium. Daily Mass is celebrated at 12:30 
pm, Monday through Friday, in CMs Chapel 
(Skibo Rm. 39). For more information call 
681-3181.
You are invited to a barbeque at the 
Roman Catholic University Oratory, 4040 
Bigelow Blvd. on Wednesday, September 9, at 
5 pm. CM students can meet at the parking lot 
entrance of Skibo at 4:30 pm for the walk to the 
H Oratory.
The Downtown YWCA is sponsoring Home 
Health Aide Training. For supervised training
in theory demonstration and CPR call 391- 
5100. The sessions beginning September 21 
and last for three weeks.
Mothers Day Out. All women, especially 
mothers with preschool children ages four 
months up to kindergarten age can enjoy the 
Mothers Day Out program which is held for 
10 weeks on Tuesdays beginning September 
22 through December 1. Classes for the 
women include aerobics, childrens literature, 
cooking, stenciling and many more. For more 
information call 361-3951.
Patricia Bellan-Gillien presents her works, 
silkscreens, paintings and drawings at the 
Hewlett Gallery, College of Fine Arts, 1st 
floor, through September 19. Gallery hours 
are: 11 am - 4 pm, Tuesday through Saturday 
and 1 pm - 4 pm, Sunday.
Buhl Science Center. )ti?MSlTc 8 pm and 
9:15 pm, Thursday through Sunday; and 3 pm, 
Saturday. For current concerts call 321-5554. 
els1i ?sitdSestuc Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 
1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
Op? hS.pd *ea?ic Permanent exhibit at 1 pm
- 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm -9:30 
pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm
- 5 pm, Sunday.
Btdd?M mPc Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, 
Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, 
Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm - 5 
pm, Sunday.
oeueMc Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, 
Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, 
Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm - 5 
pm, Sunday.
BSe oeMs?Mc Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, 
Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, 
Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm - 5 
pm, Sunday.
yTt.? yTt.SstdSesc Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 
1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
7elItlud F?s1lulTc Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 
1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
LZ iNp3
SOUVENIRS
zn6F;b >GBn6; 
&
>BGGb>nHGb.362-8491
4
CLOTHING MIN AND YOUNG MN SINCE 19*0
London Dock
Our new collections have arrived from 
Girbaud, Edwin, JimmyZ, Polo, 
Alexander Julian, and Gotcha.
S842 Forbes Avenue Fox Chapel Plaza
Squirrel Hill Freeport & Fox Chapel Roads
421-5710 781-0811
Movies
The Miracle Worker, starring Anne Ban
croft, Patty Duke and Victor Jory. Fine per
formances in this film about Helen Keller and 
her teacher. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm 
and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Broadway Danny Rose. Mia Farrow in this 
look at show business in NYC. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7 pm and 9 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Lectures
Stanton T. Friedman speaks on Flying 
Saucers Are Real at 7:30 pm in Alumnae 
Hall Theatre. Admission $1.
QWednesday
S Movies
A Patch of Blue, starring Sidney Poitier and 
Elizabeth Hartman. Sensitive and well acted 
film about a blind girl falling in love with a 
black man. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm 
and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
A Midsummer Nights Sex Comedy. 
Woody Allen explores the lives and mostly 
loves of three couples in 1905. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7 pm and 9 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Lectures
Dept, of Architecture Seminar. Stefani 
Ledewitz, Doug Cooper and Patrice Derrington speak on Planning and Presenting Lec
tures at noon in CFA 206.
Special Events
Comedian. Big Daddy Graham performs at 8 
pm in the Alumnae Hall Theatre. Admission 
$1.00.
The Educational Action of Latin America 
group is meeting at 7:30 pm in Skibo Rm. 112. 
A representative of the Pittsburgh Sister City 
Campaign is discussing their project, focusing 
on humanitarian aid for San Ysidro, Nicara
gua. All are welcome.
Marlene. Maximilian Schells fine documen
tary portrait of the great star Marlene Dietrich 
in her Paris apartment. Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission S2.95.
A Midsummer Nights Sex Comedy. 
Woody Allen explores the lives and mostly 
loves of three couples in 1905. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7 pm and 9 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Menage, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at 
6 pm, 8 pm and 10 pm. Admission $1.
Lectures
Ambassador Robert Frowick, "The CSCE: 
How Much Cooperation for Security?" 4:00 
Dining B, Wm. Pitt Union, U. of Pittsburgh.
Movies
Platoon, starring Charlie Sheen and Tom 
Berenger. A much honored Oscar winning 
film about a young recruit in the Vietnam War. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 
11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Annie Hall. Comedy classic about neuroses 
in NYC. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7 pm, 9 pm 
and 11 pm. Admission $2.95.
Goonies, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at 
6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. Admission 
$1.00.
1 ^Saturday
M MnvipcMovies
Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home. The Star 
Trek crew returns to Earth in 1986 to save the 
Earth from an alien probe. Pittsburgh Play
house at 7:30 pm, 9:40 pm and 11:50 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Annie Hall. Comedy classic about neuroses 
in NYC. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7 pm, 9 pm 
and 11 pm. Admission $2.95.
Vamp, sponsored by SDC Films. DH 2210 at 
6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. Admission 
$1.
1 ^Sunday
-M- Movies
The Wizard of Oz, starring Judy Garland, 
Ray Bolger and Bert Lahr. Enchanting musi
cal about a pair of slippers and a voyage to a 
magical city. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm 
and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Sleeper. A man frozen in 1973 is revived in 
2173 with hilarious results. Pittsburgh Play
house at 7 pm and 9 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Multiple Maniacs, sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. 
Admission $1.
1 ^Monday
JL  Movies
The Grateful Dead. A 1977 concert film 
about the Dead and their relationship with the 
audience. Includes 20 of their songs. Pitts
burgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:50 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Sleeper. A man frozen in 1973 is revived in 
2173 with hilarious results. Pittsburgh Play
house at 7 pm and 9 pm. Admission $2.95.
Submissions
If you wish to place an announcement, miscella
neous item, or event in The Tartan, send it to 
Campus Calendar / University Relations / 
Carnegie Mellon University / Pittsburgh, PA 
15213. Send it by campus mail to the above 
address or drop it off at 5017 Forbes Ave (The 
house between AY and ATiJ).
Please include the following information when 
submitting events: Title of event, sponsor, brief 
description, location, date, and time.
Deadline for Calendar submissions is Wednes
day at 5 pm for the next weeks issue.
donee
at The Carnegie
?All Ages, Levels, and Interests 
?Special Master Classes
REGISTER NOW! QUALITY DANCE INSTRUCTION
?Classes Begin September 26
?For Information, call The Carnegie at 622-3288 
?Mention this Ad for 10% off Registration Fee

---------------------------------------------------

ITS FRESH
I . '
HIST, FREE, DELIVERY
HOURS
Call NOW!682-2772
Limited Delivery Area
Mon-Thurs 11 am -12 pm Fri-Sat 11 am -1 am Sunday 1 pm -10 pm
WmntodSfL^WifmrftzSL^WsreaPEdiL.
$2.00 OFF$1.50 OFF1/2 OFF
OUR URGE 16"OUR SMALL 12"OUR PANCHEESECHEESEPRIMAVERA PIZZANEOPOLITAN PIZZANEOPOLITAN PIZZA
Expires 9/27/87Expires 9/27/87Expires 9/27/87
