The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 83, Number 14, January 25, 1983.
ATO unrecognized as CMU 
organization says Walter
By JOANNE SAVINELL
Tartan News Editor
Although the charter of Alpha Tau 
Omega has not been suspended, the univer
sity does not recognize the existence of the 
fraternity as a school organization for the 
1983 spring semester, according to Acting 
Dean of Student Affairs Brad Walter.
The fraternity, which is on probation 
undl 1985, may not participate in IM sports 
under the ATO name, in Greek Sing or 
buggy. They are not allowed to build a 
booth for Carnival, hold open or advertised 
parties, or hold Spring Rush for new 
members. However, they will still occupy 
the house, and their housing lease with the 
university remains the same.
The restrictions on ATO are the result of 
a series of events from this past semester 
involving the fraternity, according to Wal
ter. They included injuries to a student by
apples thrown from a truck, the theft of a 
tree from Schenley Park and public nudity.
The rulings came through a special com
mittee consisting of the university discipli: 
nary committee, two students, including the 
head of the United Fraternal Organization 
(UFO), and two faculty members. The com
mittee made recommendations to Walter, 
who made no significant changes.
Its hard, its a stiff punishment, said 
Mark Oberkircher, who was elected presi
dent of ATO last week. The case will be 
reviewed again this May, and ATOs stand
ing in the university may be reinstated at 
this time, said Walter. If no improvement is 
shown, the committee handling the case 
must decide whether or not it should request 
that the national headquarters remove 
ATOs charter. Without a charter, ATO 
cannot exist on campus as a recognized 
continued on page 5
Curtis Smith, founder of the Movement Extravaganza, demonstrated his skill Wednesday 
night in the Skibo Ballroom. Story is on page 11.
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Assistant News Editor
This May, nine of the approximately 800 
graduating seniors will carry the title of stu
dents with high honors. The H&SS Honors 
Program made its debut this year, after care
ful planning by the H&SS faculty, H&SS 
Dean John Crecine, and last years Acting 
Dean Charles Kiesler. The H&SS College 
Council approved the plan at the end of the 
last academic year.
To qualify for this program, a junior 
must have a department QPA of 3.50, an 
overall QPA of 3.25, and the recommenda
tion of their department and faculty. Once a
decision to enter the program has been 
made, a thesis topic must be chosen and 
approved, and research is done on the topic 
throughout the senior year. The thesis topic 
and the designation of high honors is writ
ten on the diploma and on the students 
transcripts.
A semor honors seminar is required in 
conjunction with the Honors Program. The 
seminar will aid the students in the research 
and preparation of their thesis. This year, 
however, the seminar was not available.
Currently the nine students who are in the 
honors program are majoring in English, 
history, psychology, or the social sciences. 
They are Stephen Macy, Gina Osborn,
Ruth Carroll, Annette Giovengo, Stephen 
Peterson, Annemarie Moses, Robert 
Ouellette, Lorraine Phalon, and Judy 
Ivanschultz.
Ivanschultz, a senior in psychology, is 
researching computers as a feasible educa
tional tool. Working with five-year olds at 
the Childrens School, she is teaching them 
simple functions on the computer and 
observing the way they handle the programs 
and what problems they have.
The letters are not traditional and the 
block letters are unfamiliar to them. They 
also have trouble remembering to push the 
return button and expect the computer to 
automatically do what they tell them, elab
orated Ivanschultz.
To aid the children, Ivanschultz has 
renamed certain keys, i.e. return is now 
go. She has written some programs for the 
children to do and is observing the problems 
they are having in carrying out the instruc
tions. She is looking for patterns in the diffi
culties the children run into. Ivanschultz has 
been researching her topic all year, and 
hopes to finish by the deadline in the middle 
of April.
Anthony Penna, Associate Dean of 
H&SS, was pleasantly surprised by the 
amount erf interest shown and called the 
program a smashing success.
Many protesters attended the 
pro-life rally in Washington
H&SS Honors Program to produce nine grads
Thousands of people gathered under the Washington Monument Saturday to protest the 
legalization of abortion.
By JOANNE SAVINELL
Tartan News Editor
On a cold, gray Saturday thousands of 
people stood under the shadow of the 
Washington Monument, cheering and 
listening to speakers express their 
opposition to abortion. The crowd of about 
100,000 was commemorating the tenth 
anniversary of the Supreme Court ruling, 
Roe vs. Wade, which effectively legalized 
abortion.
The rally began at noon on the Ellipse 
behind the White House with speeches by 
Nellie Gray, president of March for Life, 
congressmen, and a senator from Japan. 
The marchers then walked down 
Pennsylvania and Constitution Avenues to 
the Capitol Building, and concluded with 
many going to lobby their congressmen.
In a statement read by an aide, President 
Ronald Reagan said that The abortion 
ruling was a tragedy, and he pledged to 
support any appropriate legislative action 
that will restrict abortion.
Lindy Boggs, U.S. Representative from 
Louisiana, thanked the listeners for 
coming, and stressed the importance erf 
youth involvement.
The crowd applauded and cheered loudly 
when Henry Hyde, U.S. Representative
from Illinois, said, Lady, if you are 
pregnant, have the body!
Along the walk to the Capitol, the 
marchers, nearly all middle aged and young 
adults, occassionally chanted and sang 
songs. Pro-lifers, however, were not the only 
ones demonstrating. A group of about 70 
people stood alongside the route, protesting 
military aid to El Salvador and Guatemala, 
continued on page 8
In This Issue
Editorial
Where has reading day gone?.........page 2
News
Navy is looking for officers..........page 7
Panhel balloons have landed.........page 7
Features
New column focuses on Warner ... page 9 
A deadly vacation ............................page 9
Entertainment
Romero discusses Creepshow.........page 15
Harry  bends into shape..............page 17
Sports
Super Bowl preview .......................page 21
Ex-CMU tight end signs with USFL page 22

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Is reading day being slowly phased out?
At a university as competitive as 
Camegie-Mellon, most students can expect to 
succeed only after committing dme and effort 
to their studies. Unfortunately, the 
administrauon here is making this success 
more difficult each semester by taking away 
more study dme.
Last semester, for the first time in years, final 
exams were held on Saturday, the day after 
reading day. This cut the dme we could spend 
preparing for exams from three days to one. 
That Sunday exams were not held, so people 
who had one or no finals on Saturday were not 
gready affected by the loss. However, this 
semester more people will be hurt when 
reading day moves to Thursday. This spring 
there will be two days of finals before the 
one-day break.
Last year Dean Cox of Student Affairs told 
Student Senate that the change was necessary 
to accomodate a sixth day of exams. We must 
assume that this was due to poor scheduling in 
the past, since we dont see a significandy 
longer list of courses now. It might be possible 
to eliminate the current problem and retain the 
five day finals week. But even if a sixth day is 
necessary, we feel that we should be allowed to 
keep our weekend for preparation. This 
weekend may be only a courtesy from the 
administrations viewpoint, but it is a courtesy
on which we have grown very dependent.
According to administrators, the amount of 
stress on this campus has increased gready this 
year. Students are having to wait longer to see 
someone at the counseling center, and the flow 
of traffic in the office of Student Affairs has 
grown. The acting dean, Brad Walter, has 
voiced his concern over this. So with all this 
extra stress, why must we be subjected to even 
more pressure?
If another day is needed to schedule finals, 
we would rather have it added to the end of 
finals week. That way we could have reading 
day on Friday and finals the following 
Monday through Saturday. Staying on 
campus, an extra day will cause less anxiety 
than spending reading day studying for up to 
four finals.
Were afraid of the trend that began last 
semester. If reading day was Friday last 
semester and will be Thursday this semester, 
will it move to Wednesday next fall? How long 
will it be before reading day goes away 
completely?
Administrators seem to think that we have 
the last week of classes to study for finals, so we 
dont need the weekend. This simply is not the 
case. Almost all professors try to squeeze in that 
last exam on the last day of class, and we have
enough work just managing that. Most 
students cant begin to think about finals until 
the end of the last day of classes.
We need that extra time. One day is haixlly 
adequate to prepare for exams when we 
consider the level of expertise that is expected 
of students at CMU. We are not complaining 
about the difficulty of exams; we would like to 
see some appreciation of students needs, 
however.
We realize that it is probably too late to 
change the schedule for this semester, 
although it is possible to modify the plans for 
exam week to help reduce the pressure. On the 
first two days of finals we think the maximum 
number of exams for which a student is 
responsible should be reduced from two to 
one. We think this is fair because we are getting 
less dme to prepare for exams on those two 
days. In the future, the weekend shqpld be 
restored as study time.
The schedule for next year has not yet been 
set, and we would like the administration to 
consider our objection when this schedule is 
written. If major changes in scheduling are 
made, we would like to have a chance to 
respond to them, instead of having to depend 
on our senators to tell us about the changes 
after the fact.
A dvocates of school prayer get foot in door
By Stuart Shapiro
Now that New Jersey has become the 
latest contestant in the Lets Sneak Prayer 
Back into the Public Schools Sweepstakes, 
the issue has once again risen to the fore
front of the nations editorial 
pages. So far be it from me to 
hesitate to offer my own 
I thoughts on the current debacle.
Actually, the situation in New Jersey is a 
bit trickier than most. Rather than being 
conveniently black and white, the New Jer
sey case falls within that infamous gray area 
which makes it so difficult to deliver 
unequivocal praise or condemnation. The 
gang in the New Jersey legislature has 
pulled a real curie and the eventual outcome 
is far from certain.
The New Jersey law has to win the prize 
for the most innocuous back door play 
against the separation of church and state 
yet It simply requires the observance of a 
one minute period of silence at the begin
ning erf each school day for quiet contem
plation or introspection. Even better, the 
legislation expliddy states that this minute 
is "to be used solely at the discretion erf the 
individual student. . . Sounds swell.
That is, it would if it didnt smack of one 
more attempt to reintroduce prayer into the 
public schools. Lets be serious. It doesnt 
require a great deal erf insight to realize that 
the purpose of the law, at least in the hearts 
and minds of New Jersey legislators, is to 
unobtrusively slip prayer back into the pub
lic schools. The American Civil Liberties 
Union, which has a great deal more than 
sufficient insight and which loves a goexl 
fight, wasted no time in challenging the law 
as unconstitutional. But just wait a second.
Undoubteelly, the New Jersey law was 
and still is intended as an end run around 
the constitutional separation of church and 
state. But as obvious as that is, it is equally 
obvious that as written and practiced the law 
apparently really is effectively neutral with 
respect to religion. Unless Im way off base, 
thats enough to satisfy the constitutional
principle in question. If students are truly 
free to spend that minute of silence thinking 
whatever thoughts their little hearts desire, 
there seems to be litde room for a constitu
tional challenge. Which is not to say that 
what the New Jersey Legislature passed is 
good law. It isnt
Does such a period of silence really serve 
any useful purpose? If students desire to 
pray before school each day, why cant they 
do so before they enter the classroom? If they 
dont wish to pray, just what else can they be 
reasonably expected to do? Are t&n-year old 
children supposed to take time out for some 
fast transcendental meditation? Will high 
school students really use that daily minute 
to contemplate the meaning of it all or to 
fashion a personal philosophy of life? I 
somehow tend to doubt it.
But while that minute wont do much for 
most students, it might do something for 
advocates erf school prayer* It will give them 
a foot in the door, establish a legal beach
head. And as innocuous as that beachhead
might be, it has the potential of expanding 
into a genuine contitutional threat
As things stand now, however, the ACLU 
is chasing a wild goose. As written, the New 
Jersey law isnt a constitutional issue. Its a 
legislative issue. As such, neutralizing it 
demands legislative rather than judicial 
activism. Until such a time as it becomes a 
genuine constitutional question, I cant 
legitimately denounce it on that basis. If the 
people of New Jersey insist on having their 
children twiddle their thumbs for a minute 
before class each day, so be it.
Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student and is 
a columnist for The Tartan.
One vote kills phon-a-thon boycott
By Nale Solano
I pity the fool, I pity the fool (with respects 
to Mr. T.):
An interesting event occurred at this past 
weeks Senate meeting. A motion was pro
posed to boycott the administra
tions annual fund raising 
phon-a-thon (and by someone 
other than me). Although the 
motion was defeated it was done so by only a 
one vote margin (this happened when the 
chairman was forced to break a 13-13 tie). 
Boycotts are fairly extremist; maybe some 
attitude changes are taking place.
In respect to other events (which happen 
to be very random), I reconvened my com
mittee to be appalled at the cost of tuition 
this week (in that inflation was only 3.5 
annually and the economy may not get bet
ter before the turn erf the century). I doubt 
anything can be done but well keep trying.
I got a letter erf sorts this week:
Dear Nate,
How come the axle on Fred Flintstones 
car like doesnt slip out? Ive been watching 
for the past couple weeks and I just cant 
figure it out.
Yours truly, 
Joe Toth
Dear Joe,
I sdll havent figured out how George 
Jetson gets his car into his briefcase.
I attended a trustees meeting last Monday 
and it was pretty boring expect when they 
showed me an artists rendition of our new 
Student Union next to Warner Hall, or 
excuse me ITC.
I would take this opportunity to apolog
ize to any persons offended by last weeks 
column concerning Drunk Drivers. I fear 
my insensitivity is a function of my percep
tion erf humor.
I will be in the office this week Wednesday 
from 3-5 p.m. and Thursday from 7-9 p.m.
My phone number is 687-6404.
Tfcfc
P.S. There have been rumors spread con
cerning a Win a Date with Nate contest, they 
are false.
Nate Solano is a junior majoring in pub
lic policy and management and is president 
of the student government.
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the top of page two, and are the 
official opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Columns are the opinions of individual authors who 
are usually on The Tartan staff, but the opinions are 
not necessarily those of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Letters to the editor are opinions of individual authors 
who are usually members of the University 
community. A letter intended for publication must be 
signed and include the writer's address and phone 
number for iierification. Names will be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or 
reject any letter.
FHitnr in Chief...............................Monica Cellio
Managing Editor............................Gregg Bossier
Business Manager.............................Kathy Wasdi
News Editor.............................Joanne Savinell
Features Editor.........................Pauline KiW
Entertainment Editor.........................Sue Petrie
Sports Editor.....................................Jeff Bergman
Photography Editor......................Steve Winawer
Production Manager.............Carolyn Speran#
Ad Manager...................................Bonnie Topf
Typesetting Manager.....................Patti Carlisle.
Ait Director....................................Mike Sussman
Contributing Editors.......................Alice Alfonsi
Vince Guinto 
Louise Crocoll
Assistant Business Mgr.................Tara Diegu
Assistant News Editors.................Chris Johnston
Pauline Wen
Asst Features Editor......................Monica Safrin
Asst Ent Editor....................... John Cantine
Asst Sports Editor............................Ric Medrw
Asst Production Mgr.  .................Peter Bain
Production Staff: Doug Blair, Susan Bossi. 
Margaret Eissler, Andrew Ghali.
Copyright  1983 by The Tartan. The Editonal Board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication <lllV 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial Off#1* 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo 52, 
(412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone, (412) 578-2113. Mail" 
address: Box I7, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh PA 1-^-' 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
AH rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

January 25, 1983The TartanPage 3
Student dares Van Horn, 
Cyert to eat in Kiltie
Editor
Many complaints and criticisms have 
appeared on this page during this school 
year, but none are so obvious as this: 
Carnegie-Mellon food service is rotten. No, 
not rotten, worse than that. The slop they 
serve in Kiltie is so bad, no self respecting 
pig would touch it. But, we all know this. 
What we dont know is why it never gets any 
better.
At nearly every SDC meeting, food service 
complaints abound. These are all reported 
to the Marriot representatives (Marriot is in 
charge of CMU food service), but they seem 
uninterested in the quality of the food. They 
show a greater interest in the profit they try 
to make.
Last year, Dr. Van Horn proposed that all 
students be placed on mandatory food con
tracts. Student opposition was loud and 
strong. How would Dr. Van Horn like forc
ing down under-cooked ravioli, charcoal 
black meat (at least they claim at one time it 
used to be meat) that was fried on a grill that 
hasnt been cleaned since before we were 
bom, pasta with tomato sauce that was app
lied with an eye-dropper, and the list goes 
on.
I propose a challenge to Dr. Van Horn 
and Dr. Cyert: I will pay for their dinner in 
Kiltie on a randomly selected night, pro
vided that they do not inform food service in 
advance. I wonder if they can stomach the 
food that food service provides.
Food service, of course, thinks thqy are 
providing a service to the campus. They 
even go as far as offering comment tables. 
But, what good is leaving comments when, 
as a food service employee stated, They 
(food service) will listen, but think that the 
problem is a random occurrence and will 
correct itself, so forget about it.
But, in fairness, Marriot does provide a 
service to the campus. Just think of how 
many synonyms they have provided us with 
the word hamburger  steak patty, pepper 
steak (they put pepper on the meat), ham
burger steak (a hamburger without the bun
 no doubt to economize and make a bigger 
profit), etc. Also, they add to the educational 
experience by making us guess what it is 
they "plop on our plate every day.
In conclusion, I offer this suggestion to 
those who agree with me: leave your dirty 
plates on the tables after the meal. By this 
simple act of civil disobedience, maybe food 
service will look at what they expect us to 
eat, and leam that food shouldnt taste like 
some other four letter words.
Scott Safier
Carol resident complains about services
Editor
Has anyone ever heard that these are the 
best years of your life routine? Horse 
puckey! Im not talking about schoolwork 
now. We all know its difficult enough with
out any other problems cropping up, but
Orientation needs help
Editor
Grab your earmuffs guys and gals! Its 
time once again to start thinking about 
FRESHPEOPLE ORIENTATION 1983! 
Are you well oriented? Do you want some
thing benevolent to put on your resume? Do 
you have a special entertainment talent? Do 
you enjoy sharing your collegiate expe
rience with newcomers? Did you go to 
Freshman camp? Are you psyched for free 
parties in the fall?
If you answer yes to any of these ques
tions, then youre a good candidate of the 
position of FRESHPEOPLE ORIENTA
TION COUNSELOR. If you didnt answer 
yes to any questions, then youre an even 
better prospect, so go to it! Now is the time, 
its the year of the tuxedo. Applications are 
available at the Skibo information desk and 
the Student Affairs office. So go to it!
P.S. This falls program includes activi
ties both on and off campus. Were looking 
for women, men, students, Greeks, inde
pendents, scientists, professionals, thinkers, 
babbling fools, and mascots.
when they do, look out.
Did we complain all last semester when 
the cold wind came in the broken bathroom 
window to freeze our piggins off? No! Do we 
complain that in order to take a hot shower 
for early classes, you have to up, in, and out 
by 7:15? No! Do we complain that the lock 
on the front door is usually broken so that 
any old scumbucket could waltz right in? 
No! Did we say anything when, not once 
but twice, we were locked in our apartment 
(yes in, and before a final one time)? Of 
course not!
The exorbitant price we pay for school, 
housing, and food has to go somewhere, but
for the life of me I cant figure out where. I 
mean, when you take a van, capable of com
fortably carrying no more than a dozen stu
dents, and try to squeeze the entire Mormon 
Tabernacle Choir into it, you kinda get to 
know each other real well. That wasnt the 
first time, nor will it be the last that the big 
shuttle bus breaks down, but I pity those 
who had to walk in sub-zero temperatures. 
Oh well, thats just one more aspect of the 
best years of our lives; but whos complain
ing? We of the Carol Penthouse Apartments 
think it might be even better than home.
Neal Johnston 
Soph. ChemistrySecrets keptAdministration told to come out of cube
Sincerely psyched,
Linda Quarrie 
Chairperson
By Orpheus Allison
Where does the need for secrecy come 
from? Is it to protect a possible viewer 
from harm? Or to provide a weapon of 
leverage for another person to use against 
\ the victim? Why is there a need 
for secrecy on this campus? 
Are we not, as students, all 
equal? Why should the 
administration attempt to hide behind a 
facade of secrecy for the students good 
rather than present the facts in a straight
forward manner to the citizens of the 
community of Carnegie-Mellon 
University?
These questions occur whenever a
Nate's "humor" attacked
Editor
In recent weeks everyone from alcohol 
manufacturers to civic organizations have 
spent vast amounts of money on national 
advertising campaigns stressing the impor
tance of never driving while drunk. Many 
alternatives are suggested, including cabs, 
sober friends, and spending the night where 
you are. While home for the winter break I 
was aware of several area high schools 
initiating hotlines for intoxicated holiday 
Party goers to call for free transportation 
from sober volunteers.
At a time when far too many tragedies 
result from drunk driving, when many 
states are raising drinking ages, when out
raged citizens are organizing into groups 
such as MADD (Mothers Against Drunk 
Driving), when the media abounds with 
reports and investigations of the tragic problem (60 Minutes, 20/20), and when this indi
vidual, as well as others, has herself been 
personally touched by the waste and sorrow 
caused by the drunken drivers crimes, how 
can Mr. Solano, a representative of our stu
dent body, be trite on the subject!? (Jan. 18) 
How can our elected and respected (?) 
representative make light of one of the most 
serious problems facing our nation. It is 
atrocious to see a mature (?) college student 
express such insensitivity to a crucial issue, 
when others, young and old, are treating the 
problem with appropriate seriousness.
There is never any cause to be forced to 
drive when drunk. For the president of our 
Student Senate to offer a glib list of tips on 
how to avoid the punishment any law 
breaker deserves is far from sound advice.
Melinda Snell 
Soph., Prof. Writing
member of the university begins chastis
ing the student press with inconsistencies 
at the same time that that same member is 
withholding information from the press 
that would correct the inconsistencies. 
When such information begins to appear 
before the student body, in the form of 
brief articles on a subject that provide 
little or no information, then the student 
has to strive to find such information as 
he or she can. Often this information 
while having some validity more often is 
the basis for rumors.
Of course, every one of us at some time 
or another wishes to hear of the sordid 
affairs of, say, the Pulitzer family, or the 
British royal family as these are two fami
lies that appear to be on a pedestal and at 
times, we the reader wish to bring them 
down to a level that we can look down 
upon. But also, such activity can get out 
of hand, as exemplified by the recent case 
of Burnet vs. National Enquirer. The 
National Enquirer was accused of libel 
and found guilty.
These are extremes. However, unless 
there is a conserted effort on the part of 
the press to provide information with the 
aid of its overseers, there is a distinct pos
sibility that the paper we read once a 
week could turn into a libelous rag.
I am saying that there is a need for the 
administration to come out of the cube 
and provide us with information that we 
can trust. It is not necessary for us to send 
a reporter to investigate certain leads that 
we hear about if the administration 
would detail its decisions to us. What is 
the decision concerning the brothers of
ATO? Are they in or out? Are we as stu
dents going to be responsible for paying 
for the new research building? What are 
you doing Mr. President?
Not to be totally negative, I do offer 
some suggestions to the administration: 
One, you hear us complaining about the 
food. Come and eat with us and see what 
we mean; three blind men could not tell 
an elephant when they could not feel all 
of it. Two, let us read what you have to 
say by submitting it to the student publi
cations. Sure, you can write letters in 
response to student comments or you can 
write your own opinion columns. After 
all, you are part of the community.
And as part of the community, come 
and attend events with us. For those of 
you not directly tied to student affairs, 
come and hear what the student senate is 
discussing. Perhaps the discussion is 
misrepresenting what you want to say. 
But how can you know if you do not 
show up to correct these errors?
Technically, all of you administrators 
are responsible for all of the people who 
comprise the community. Is it not about 
time that you show up in the community 
to assume your roles as leaders?
Perhaps this will drive the administra
tion out from the cube. However, it is 
time for us to assume the roles of leader
ship. If the administration refuses to 
accept the challenge of participation, 
then we should challenge its authority 
over us. Remember, secrecy breeds 
secrecy.
Orpheus Allison is a freshman tn 
H&SS and is a columnist for The Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanJanuary 25, 1983
More letters
Arcade provides more utility than an art gallery
Editor
In response to Arnold Bowens letter 
entitled Electric Monsters  BE 
SERIOUS!! Thith ith a thtupid idea! Turn
ing one of the storefronts into an art gallery 
for amateurs is one of the worst ideas since
the Gong Show. Besides, Mr. Bowens 
entry would probably be the only one, or do 
Mech Es really have so much spare time 
(hat they can paint Picassos on weekends? If 
he really sees a need to "strut his artwork, I 
suggest he hang it in the bathrooms of Hamerschlag. More people would see it there 
than if he put it in a "gallery for amateurs. 
The campus community would get much 
more marginal utility out of a video 
arcade. And, in the spirit of Andrew Carne
gie, this would help raise more money for 
our poverty stricken school. Video games are 
not monsters, they are inanimate objects 
that provide cheap entertainment for those 
who want it. They dont chase people 
around campus, so if you dont like them 
you can stay in your room and paint your
Put
pictures.
And what better idea is there than to 
all of the video games in one room? 
that dont like them can run away, 
people that do like them can congreg^ 
there. In fact, it might even provide a placf 
to meet women besides fraternities. Son* 
Amy, but I just cant see how an amateurart 
gallery could be such a great idea  maybe 
you should leave the better ideas up tQ 
Ford.
Name withheld by reqUest
Attention
The Tartan staff meets every Monday night at 7:30 in 
Skibo Room 13. If you are interested in writing, art, or 
photography come to a meeting or call x2111 any time.
From TERADYNE 
A Very Large Scale Invitation 
from a Technology Leader
In electronics, the era of very large scale integration (VLSI) has 
arrived, leaving many companies with products suddenly obsolete 
and engineering staffs struggling to catch up.
But not Teradyne. Thanks to S 50 million spent on R & I) in 
l()"<)-KI. Teradyne was ready and waiting for Vi.SI.
Ready with VLSI memory testers, logic testers, analog testers, 
hoard testers.
Ready in Boston. Ma. and Woodland HUh:, Cat if., where 
Teradyne develops ATT for the electronics industry.
Ready in Deerfield. Illinois, center for Teradyne's telephone 
system testing operations.
Ready in Nashua, A'ew Hampshire, where Teradyne produces 
backplane connection systems and state-of-the-art circuit board 
technology designed to meet VLSI packaging requirements.
This kind of technology leadership spells growth Excitement 
Challenge. Career opportunities 
you Just can t find anyu here else.
Teradyne A company 
ahead of its time, 
looking for some good 
people to keep it ahead
For more information, see 
your Placement Counselor.
WE 
MEASURE 
UR

---------------------------------------------------

January 25, 1983The TartanPage 5
Fraternity's organizational privileges are cut
continued from page 1
fraternity.
The letter informing ATO of the deci
sions stated that ATO failed to achieve an 
overall desired behavior and that the frater
nity as a whole should accept responsibility 
for its members.
We are not trying to destroy the frater
nity, said Walter. The policies are designed 
to help them build a new attitude toward 
the campus, he added.
I feel we have made improvements as far 
as our attitude, said Oberkircher. I can see 
why the fraternity has to be responsible for
people who are in it, but he added that the 
house can not control the actions of all the 
individuals.
Seven ATO brothers have been removed 
from the fraternity house and from all uni
versity housing as part of the disciplinary 
action.
Last semester, a woman walking down 
the street was struck by apples thrown by 
ATO members and had to be taken to the 
hospital. Later, a group of ATO brothers 
had chopped down an evergreen tree from 
Schenley park, valued at $900, and were 
caught carrying it back to the fraternity.MechE's want computers
The tree was stolen after the committee 
began discussing the future of the fraternity. 
We had to draw the line and say this is 
getting out of hand, commented Walter. 
Oberkircher expects a favorable review in
May from the committee, and hopes that fall 
rush will not be hurt. The house isnt as 
bad as it seems from the outside, said Ober
kircher. A lot of things really get blown out 
of proportion.
Ice causes auto accident
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS
We are a leader in fast, exciting fields ... aircraft, missiles, 
electronics, automation. Electrical engineers play a vital 
role in our continued growth and industry leadership. 
Opportunities for future-minded Electrical Engineers are 
available in these challenging career fields:
Guidance and Control Mechanics
 Digital Flight Control Design/Analysis
 Inertial Navigation System Analysis
 Software Design Development and Validation
 Trajectory Analysis Redundant Digital Signal Processing
 Filtering and Control Techniques 
Reliability
 Data Analysis
 Circuit Analysis
 Part Stress Analysis Failure Mode and Effect Analysis
Electronics Automatic Test Equipment Embedded Microprocessor Architecture/Design
 Digital, Analog and RF Equipment/Circuit Design
 Hardware and Software
Fire Control Systems
 Radar
 Forward Looking Infrared, Television, or Laser 
Technology
Avionics Test Requirements Analysis . Radar
 Displays
 Inertial Systems
 Flight Computers
 Communication
If you're ready to get your career off the ground, McDonnell 
Douglas would like to talk with you. Sign up at your 
placement office for a personal interview. Here is the date 
well be on campus:
Wednesday, 
February 23,1983
/VfOOO/V/Vf ILf. DOUGLAS
An equal opportunity employer 
U.S. Citizenship required
By BONNIE TOPF
Tartan Advertising Manager
William A. Sirignano, head of the 
mechanical engineering department, said 
that he would like the department to 
become more involved with computers, 
especially with computer graphics. Pres
ently, two mechanical engineering courses 
use computers.
Sophomore Fluid Mechanics has a popuBy PAULINE WEN
Tartan Assistant Sews Editor
At 9:30 p.m. on Saturday January 15, Vir
ginia Webb and a friend were driving along 
Margaret Morrison Street when a car com
ing off Forbes Avenue slid on the icy streets 
and ran into them.
According to Webb, the other car was 
going 30 to 35 mph when it attempted to 
take the curve. Webb is employed part-time 
at the Engineering Lab in Wean Hall.
There were no serious injuries and those 
involved only sustained minor bruises and 
bumps.
Total estimated damages to Webbs 
friends car are around $2750. The other car 
was not seriouly damaged.
Apparently there had been an accident 
five minutes before and the tow truck had
been on its way back when the accident 
involving Webb occurred.
Commented Webb, Two accidents in 
one night are a bit much.
Slogan contest held
Put on your thinking caps: the 1983 Car
nival Slogan Contest is underway. The con
test, sponsored by the Spring Carnival 
Committee, is open to anyone in the cam
pus community. All entries should include 
name and telephone number, and must be 
turned in to the Skibo Information Desk by 
5 p.m. on Tuesday, February 1.
The entries will be judged on originality 
and on how well they represent this years 
theme of Adventure. Prizes will be awarded 
for the best slogan and that slogan will 
appear on all Carnival publicity.
lar graphics lab. Another course, Numerical 
Methods, uses computers to solve engineer
ing problems.
Sirignano believes that one of the first 
steps in incorporating computers into the 
courses is to make the faculty comfortable 
with them. He also said that a graphics 
course would become very important for all 
mechanical engineering students.

---------------------------------------------------

with Frederic Storaska
noted authority on rape prevention
MONDAY, JANUARY 31 > 7:30 PM
SKIBO BALLROOM
Dont miss it . . . YOU MIGHT 
BE SORRY IF YOU DO
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

January 25, 1983The TartanPage 7
Fadzen on CMU Security
By CHRISTOPHER JOHNSTON
Tartan Assistant News Editor Director of Security Robert Fadzen said
that there were few illegal incidents involv
ing students so far this semester. He also 
anticipates no problems over the course of
the semester. ."Our mam problem is the off-campus
people who come on campus and become a
problem. This particular area around CMU
has a high rate of unemployment and when
that happens, crime usually escalates, said
Fadzen.Last semester there was perhaps one 
serious incident involving students at the 
Beta fraternity house, but other than that, 
there havent been too many problems, and 
this semester has been even better. He 
added, We havent had any major thefts or
students altercations.
Fadzen went on to explain the campus 
police procedure concerning student crime. 
We handle things on a more personal 
basis. If necessary, we bring a student over to 
die police office and talk to him, but we 
rarely have to make an arrest. Sometimes we 
have to get the dean of student affairs 
involved.
If disciplinary action is required, we try to 
deal with it, rather than having a student get 
a record which may keep him from getting a 
job in the future. We might ask him to leave 
the school, but without reporting the inci
dent to the Pittsburgh police. Fadzen said 
this procedure was rarely necessary and 
stressed that 93% of Securitys job is service 
related. Only 7% is emergency related.
Navy seeking new officers
By THERESE YOUNG
Tartan Staffuniter
The Pittsburgh area Navy Recruiting 
Office is currently searching for qualified 
officer applicants to fill positions in the 
Nuclear Officer Candidate Program and the 
Nuclear Instructor Program. Both pro
grams involve maintenance of the Navys 
nuclear power submarines and surface 
ships.
Approximately 220 people are selected 
annually from the area, anytime after 
sophomore year. However, this year, the dis
trict has not reached its goal, largely because 
people were not informed about die pro
grams, claimed Lieutenant Lorrie Rezendes.
The Nuclear Officer Candidate Program 
prepares men to serve as nuclear reactor 
supervisors aboard submarines and surface 
ships.
The Nuclear Instructor Program trains 
individuals to teach graduate and under
graduate level courses for four years at the 
Nuclear Power School in Orlando, Florida.
Immediately upon acceptance and signPi Lam phones
Forty brothers and pledges of Pi Lambda 
Phi were volunteers for the United Cerebral 
Palsy Telethon on January 22nd. Entitled 
Weekend with the Stars for Cerebral 
Palsy, the telethon is part of a nationwide 
fund raiser for the United Cerebral Palsy 
Association, Inc. PiLam worked from 1:00 
a.m. to 7:00 a.m. at the Pittsburgh phone 
center at WTAE-TV in Wilkinsburg.
Allegheny Womens Center
an out patient medical clinic offering
* abortion counseling * free pregnancy tests
* personal counseling * birth control services
* gynecological care
362-2920 
Pregnancy Testing Center
201 S. Craig Street (Oakland) 
Pittsburgh, f A 15213
(412) 687-TEST
sS''Center
Medica) Center last Building 
Penthouse Right (Mi floor) 
211 North Whitfield Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15206
Womens
Health
Services
Now...
Two Pregnancy 
Testing Locations
Oakland
Room 212
Parkvale Plaza Buildings 
3520 Forbes Ave. (cor. Meyran) 
Pittsburgh. PA 15213 
(412) 683-3730
Downtown
625 Stanwix Street 
12th FloorAllegheny Tower 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
(412) 562-1914
Free pregnancy testing daily. Call for hoLrs and 
instructions. Confidential counseling available
ing for either program, one receives $3,000, 
then $950 per month for both junior and 
senior years. Starting salary is $22,000, 
which increases to $40,000 after four years. 
An officer can retire after 20 years at half pay, 
and at 75% of pay after 30 years if he decides 
to stay in the Navy after the program fin
ishes. Other benefits include medical and 
dental care, use of recreational facilities and 
equipment, travel on a space-available basis, 
and commissary and exchange privileges for 
the candidate and his/her dependents.
Qualifications for consideration in both 
programs are: age 19-27J4; U.S. citizen; male 
only for Nuclear Officer Program; studying 
for a B.S. degree in math, engineering, phys
ics, or chemistry, with an average of 2.5 or 
better; correctable vision to 20/20; and nor
mal color perception.
Please contact Lieutenant Lorrie 
Rezendes at the Navy Recruiting District at 
644-4019 for further information.
ROBERT FADZEN
photo by Chris Johnston
Panhel winner found in NC
A winner has been found in the Panhel 
Balloon Launch which took place at Home
coming, and almost $300 has been raised for 
the Oakland Womens Center.
At Homecoming, 500 balloons were 
launched. Each had a card bearing the name 
and address of the sender, and a request to 
return the card. The person whose card went 
the farthest before landing won.
The first place winner was Craig Smith, 
whose balloon landed in Camdon, North 
Carolina. He will receive a $25 gift certificate
for Kaufmanns, and the people who 
returned the card, Mr. and Mrs. Chris Tho
mas, will receive a $10 check.
The second place winner was Mary 
Dixon, whose card was found in Len Allen, 
Virginia. Gabriela Goncalves came in third 
with a card landing in Shanks, West Virgi
nia. Other, cards were found in Pennsylva
nia and Maryland.
Of the 500 cards sent out, 81 were 
returned.
Panhel made a profit of $280, which was 
donated to the Womens Center.
AT LAWRENCE LIVERMORE NATIONAL LABORATORY.
CREATIVE MINDS 
PURSUE A DIVERSITY 
OF IMAGINATIVE 
SOLUTIONS.
ON CAMPUSWEDNESDAY, FEB. 9th, 1983
Ask your Placement Office for details on our upcoming Campus visit, or see our ad in this paper next TUESDAY, Feb. 1st, for additional information.
LLNL is an equal opportunity employer, m/f/h
University of California
I I  Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
reqe Ust WWal edinfe ,xcg. mouiEpsEie y v whlWl

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanJanuary 25, 1983
Pro-life people express their views at rally
FRESHMAN
ORIENTATION
COUNSELOR
Applications are available now!
At:
Skibo Information Desk 
Student Affairs Office 
Donner Desk 
Morewood Desk 
Mudge Desk
Were looking for goofballs, electricians, mad people, geniuses, individuals, groups, thinkers doers, and men in the street. So come on down, youre the next counselor on "The School isRight!
Perretta, who is vice president of Great 
Eastern Color Lithographic Corp., Pough
keepsie, NY, previously donated seven 
works by Dali, Vasarely and Kane valued at 
$36,220 to the university.
Art department head Orville Winsand 
said the works will be displayed throughout 
the university.
continued from page 1
and a small group bore signs against 
nuclear warfare. A few people stood on the 
sidewalk with pro-choice signs.
Pro-lifers from across the country 
attended the rally, with 4000 coming from 
the Pittsburgh area. Jeanne Wallace, a 
University of Pittsburgh senior who has 
gone to the Washington, D.C. rally for the 
past six years, commented about the 
purpose of the rally, It just brings the 
abortion issue back to the people, gets them 
thinking about it. Wallace started the Pitt 
Students for Life organization when she was
a sophomore.
Students from Camegie-Mellon, Pitt, 
Duquesne, Carlow, and Chatham left for 
Washington in two busloads early Saturday 
morning.
Andy Sicree, president of the CMU 
Association for Life and organizer of the 19 
people who attended from CMU, said the 
rally was pretty good. He added, In a 
sense it was disappointing because it was a 
Saturday, and few congressmen were in 
their offices.
Sicree and others from the Pittsburgh 
schools tried to meet with
Salvador Dali works donated
Andy Sicree talks to Jeanne Wallace and other students from the University of Pittsburgh,
Louis A. Perretta Jr., an industrial man
agement graduate of CMU, has donated five 
Salvador Dali works valued at $31,800 to the 
universitys art department.
The gift includes three lithographs, a bas 
relief in gold and a bronze sculpture. Titles 
are: Exploding Madonna, Fawn from 
Fables of Fontaine, Lincoln in Dalivision, 
New Jerusalem and Trajan.
Senator Arlen Spector, who has voted 
against anti-abortion legislation, but they 
were not in the office.
They did, however, talk to Doug 
Walgren, who has a pro-choice voting 
record. About the meeting, Sicree said, 
Though hes rather supportive of abortion, 
he had the guts to come out and talk to us. 
Marchers carried signs with messages 
ranging from slogans of Baptists against 
abortion, to biblical quotes and photos of 
aborted fetuses. Many carried a plain white 
sign in the shape of an unborn child with 
ied paint splattered on it, which were given
A middle-aged woman, who said she had 
six unplanned pregnancies, commented, 
"Being unplanned doesnt necessarily mean 
being unwanted. The leader of a group of 
450 from Springfield, Massachusetts called 
abortion an offense to God.
I just wanted to show my support, was 
the response of a young, bearded man on a 
bicycle, who works for a federal agency 
which aides dependent children. I see a lot 
of pregnant teenagers, and theyre probably 
taking a harder route, he added.
Maria Bruno, a member of the Union 
to Life, New Jersey, said she 
had attended the rally for 6 years because she
is trying to help the girls. She also pickets 
abortion clinics and hospitals that perform 
abortions, explaining that some women 
have changed their minds about having an 
abortion. There are places that help these 
girls, she stressed.
An older man attended out of moral 
obligation, although he didnt expect the 
rally to accomplish anything. Many came 
just to see what its all about.
About 40 members of the Society for the 
Defense of Tradition, Family, and 
Property marched, wearing scarves and 
carrying red banners. At one point, the 
group stopped to read a treatise criticizing 
the American Catholic bishops for 
opposing nuclear warfare while neglecting 
the abortion issue.
In the Roe vs. Wade decision, January 22, 
1973, the Supreme Court ruled that during 
the first three months of pregnancy, the state 
must leave the abortion decision entirely to 
the woman and physician. During the 
second three months, the state may only 
enact laws which regulate where abortion 
may take place and who performs it. During 
the last three months of pregnancy, the state 
may forbid an abortion determined not to be 
necessary to preserve the life or health of the 
mother.
Get that 
Great X
Natural, Distinctive and Totally YOU!
PRECISION PERMS FOR
HAIRCUT COLOR ALL STYLES
(ANY LENGTH) $25.00
$12.00
(WASH-CUT-BLOW STYLE)
NO
APPOINTMENT ____
2001S. HMUJheearccjintm.
Mon., Tu., Wed. 10-7 237 Atwood Sircrt
Thurs., Fri. 10-9 Across the street from
Sai- 201 687-3500 Oakland Post OHice
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Pftevjious
*P*llOCf
NewsEdEit ioorEdisEetA
5l\ we Oowt GlVi 
Kffuno* 
HERE...EEdi'J OOMT,UH 
TMM* VME 
^X^TLyiv/eeo (To OKO/Vt
Of oosnaiss
LIKf THAT....
he Warner Hall Weekly
New column looks inside Warner; this week, Walter
it took 4 corpses to get over squeamishness"
y LINDA QUARRIE
artan Staffwriter
Acting Dean of Student Affairs Brad Walr recently appeared with Harry Reasoner 
n CBSs 60 Minutes. The topic of discuson was crime among the American elderly. 
So what does a university administrator 
now about geriatric social problems? In 
ddition to participating in the university 
dministration, Dean Walter is an expeenced social program developer. And 
hen it comes to old people in trouble with 
e law, this dean is on top of things.
Prior to accepting his current position at 
MU, Dean Walter (then Executive Direcor Walter) designed and implemented some 
reative social problem-solving models. As a 
eader with Consilium, Inc. (a non-profit 
rganization) he was responsible for a new 
nd successful approach to elderly rehabilition called Project 60.
Project 60s model designs were based 
>n the needs of the participating populaons  specifically the increasing numbers 
f elderly habitual and first-time offenders, 
liters programs centered on joining indiiduals inside the harshly institutional 
'minal justice system and assisting them 
rough the time-warpish transition to civian existence.
Its clear why Harry Reasoner was inter
ested in Dean Walters opinions. But how 
does all of this apply to the CMU Depart
ment of Student Affairs?
Walter draws an analogy between the 
institutions wre call the criminal justice sys
tem and Camegie-Mellon University. Both 
are social systems with problems. The dean 
is working to meet the needs of his current 
specific population (students) at all levels. 
He concentrates on getting a feel for the 
system, evaluating what he uncovers from 
various perspectives.
He is developing programs which deal 
with university priorities, quality of life, stu
dent services, and individual and group atti
tudes. His models are designed to make the 
changes we experience as students person
ally successful.
So even if youre not Harry Reasoner or 
an eighty-year-old axe murderer, Brad Wal
ter can probably help you with something.
Ed.  Linda Quarrie is a junior majoring 
in economics and computer science and is 
chairperson of the General Campus and 
Information Committee of student senate. 
This article is the first in a series intended to 
better acquaint CMU students with the 
administration and is tentatively titled, 
The Warner Hall Weekly.BRAD WALTER, ACTING DEAN OF STUDENT AFFAIRS
ers appearance for a viewing.
According to Ogrodnik, the cheapest and 
increasingly popular funerals are by crema
tion at $110. Another which costs nothing, 
is to donate the body to science, because the 
costs of funerals, like everything else, are 
rising. Through this donation program, 
PIMS gets the corpses that the students prac
tice on. Currently there is such a large 
number of corpses being donated to science, 
that people in the field are presently very 
selective in choosing specimens they will 
use.
In April, there will be a seminar held in 
Cincinnati on the role mortuary science will 
play in the event of a nuclear war. Dealing 
with radiation and the proper steps to burial 
will be discussed. Since the relationship 
between radiation and burial is completely 
new and has never been addressed before, 
Ogrodnik expects a large gathering.
For readers who think CMU is a dead end, 
and who can keep a stiff upper lip, PIMS 
may offer them a new career. For the eco
nomical reader who is coffin gravely lately, 
scientific donation of his/hearse body might 
be the way out of a costly funeral. For the rest 
of the readers, lets lay this story to rest.
TM alerts minds
By JOHN CANTINE
Tartan Assistant Entertainment Editor
The Transcendental Meditation program 
will be the subject of a free lecture on Thurs
day, February 3. A Vision of Possibilities: 
Developing Full Potential through TM 
will be presented at 8:15 p.m. in Skibo 
Room 11. The talk will deal with the many 
benefits of Transcendental Meditation.
According to Jonathan Finkle, director of 
the Pittsburgh Age of Enlightenment Cen
ter, TM is the fourth state of consciousness, 
a state of least excitation. It is a totally 
natural state, and simpler than the other 
three states  the dreaming, waking, and 
sleeping states. In a sense, in Transcendental 
Meditation, the mind falls awake, Finkle 
says, and attains an enhanced level of 
alertness.
The benefits of the TM process are com
prehensive and wholistic, Finkle says. It 
continued on page 10
y CHRISTOPHER JOHNSTON
artan Assistant News Editor 
The Pittsburgh Institute of Mortuary 
ience, located on Forbes Avenue across 
rom Magee Womens Hospital, is one of 38 
hools nationwide that serves the sole purose of training morticians, and has done so 
r 43 years.
The school offers a year-long program 
hich includes courses in accounting, pernnel management, psychology of the 
reaved, the basic sciences, and embalming 
chniques.
The image of the funeral director is 
nging, said Eugene Ogrodnik, dean of 
IMS. More of them are opening their pla
ces up for people to browse. We dont have 
anything to be ashamed of. Of course eve
rybody's afraid of death, but there is no reajon why people shouldnt come in and see
 tie place.
I What motivates a student to become a 
jnortician? Money, said one student who 
I wouldnt give his name. There is almost 
I lways, in my experience at least, a thousand
dollar mark-up on a funeral, and Ive 
worked in a home for six years. Of course we 
earn it, since it isnt a profession that many 
people want to do. It took me four corpses to 
get over the squeamishness of working on a 
human being. Now, its just like gutting a 
deer. Of course you dont tell the relatives 
that. It may sound callous, but you got to 
realize thats the way it has to be. Otherwise, 
I would go crazy and not be able to perform 
my job. Squeamishness isnt the only prob
lem that embalmers face, since they are 
second only to pathologists in acquiring 
diseases from the dead.
Joe Marsaglia, class president, has worked 
as a mortician for ten years. He got sick the 
first time he embalmed a corpse, but found 
his fascination with the science grew and his 
revulsion died down.
Generally there is usually no problem 
with socializing the students to working on 
corpses, said Dean Ogrodnik. Forty-six or 
forty-seven percent of our student body have 
had the relationship in a funeral home. 
Another forty-five percent have worked fora
funeral director. The rest just want to get on 
with it. The school has an attrition rate of 
10 to 15 percent, but has had a steady enrol
lment since its opening.
Ogrodnik feels the recent government leg
islation concerning the funeral industry, 
which demands a specific breakdown of 
funeral costs, is long overdue. You have the 
right to select what equipment you want in 
your automobile. Its the same thing with 
the funeral industry. There is nothing 
wrong with shopping. I dont think there 
are a great deal of problems with dishonest 
funeral directors, but as in every industry, 
there is a tiny percentage which will try to 
overcharge. The media seem to sensational
ize these cases.
The embalming process consists of the 
pumping of fluids from the body and 
replacing them with a preservative. Unless 
donated, the internal organs are left inside, 
but are aspirated. That is, the contents are 
removed with a suctioned needle, thus 
deflating the organs. Students also learn 
make-up techniques for improving a cadav ft***

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanJanuary 25, 1983
-!l '  ' '-j-1'-*-1]-1.1-I-IJ-I.I).1 'M1W ? I1 I1 ^ I1 ^ l^WUWUj- -
wjeWMWWfia
Photo by Srkanth Rajan
Artists fmm Mr. Pickerings freshman design class lend a creative touch to the Adamson construction site, due to be completed by June.
Completion of Adamson wing is scheduled for June 1
By MONICA SAFRIN 
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
Construction of the Pauline Adamson 
wing (on the Frew Street side of Baker Hall) 
is proceeding on schedule and should be 
completed by June 1, said Dan Keller, con
struction project coordinator. Keller pro
vided details about the building.
The wing will be completely under
ground to afford maximal energy conserva
tion and preservation of the appearance of 
Baker Hall. Entrance and exit will be 
through what was Baker Hall 136. Leaving
Baker Hall main, people will find them
selves in a small vestibule. They will be able 
to reach the lower level either by walking 
down a circular stairway or by taking an 
elevator.
Downstairs, they will see that the wing is 
actually one amphitheatre, designed to hold 
109 people. Keller maintains that its compu
terized lighdng system and sophisticated 
audio-visual equipment will be some of the 
best on campus.
The amphitheatre itself will be quite 
plush. The back wall will have on it
wooden slats similar to those which can be 
seen in various parts of Wean Hall. There 
will be desks, rather than chairs with lift-up 
arms. Much care is being taken in the selec
tion of the seats. The specifications are that 
they be able to be drawn closer to the desk, be 
pushed away from the desk, and pivot back 
and forth.
The design of the Pauline Adamson wing 
is by The Design Alliance; the contractor is F.J. 
Busse. The project, which totals $1.1 mil
lion, has been partially subsidized by C 
Adamson, who has dedicated the wing to his 
wife.
Meditation helps minds
continued from page 9
affects the three basic parts of an indivi
dual  the intellect, the body, and the 
personality.
According to Finkle, hundreds of stu. 
dies on TM have pointed to a systematic 
growth of every aspect of the intellect 
thought, memory, learning ability, organi. 
zation of memory, recall, and 
concentration. Studies on high school and 
college students have shown that grades can 
be improved by practicing TM.
More importantly, according to Finkle 
TM allows for the unfolding of full mental 
potential in the individual. In short, TM 
supplies the missing element in educa
tion  the development of the mind, 
the knower.
The benefits on the physiological level are 
equally startling. Evidence has been fount 
that TM practice actually reverses the aging 
process  the faculties that usually deterio
rate with age improve instead.
More specifically, studies have found that 
Transcendental Meditation leads to more 
intense brain activity, a reduction of stress 
hormones in the blood, a 30-40% reduction 
of the hearts workload, and a reduction o 
the metabolic rate. According to Finkle, 
is a totally natural intrinsic ability that the 
nervous system has.
On the personal level, Finkle says, TN 
gives the individual a broader perspcc tive 
on life. As the individual becomes more fra 
of stress, he becomes more harmonious, ant 
relationships become more frictionless. 
All of these things will be discussed i 
Skibo Room 11 at 8:15 on Thursday, Febru 
ary 3. In addition, the Pittsburgh Age ol 
Enlightenment Genter holds weekly let 
tures, every Wednesday at the Center, 580! 
Forbes Avenue. All of the lectures are free
o\ URBAN * pUBL/Q 
open HO use
for
JUNIORS - 3/2 PROGRAM 
SENIORS - 2 YEAR M.S.
Interested in public, business, or non-profit
agency management__come talk to
current SUPA students__followed by a
TGI F part/
PLEKSE COME
Frida/, Jan 28 4 pm MhKC 102 RSVPx2164

---------------------------------------------------

January 25, 1983The TartanPage 11
Sticks, spears, swords: 
some old fashioned fun "
Photo by Todd PrarioAndy Hahn leaps high to split an unsuspecting board.
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Martial Arts took on a new meaning Wed
nesday night when the Movement Extrava
ganza of the Martial Arts performed at the 
Skibo Ballroom for about 250 people. For 
approximately two hours spectators wit
nessed lightning kicks, amazing acrobatics 
and other spectacular moves. The evening 
ended with the Bruce Lee movie, Game of 
Death.
The evening kicked off with slides of the 
main members of the group exhibiting dif
ferent stances and moves. The slides were 
mistakenly shown multiple times but when 
the audience voiced its displeasure, the error 
was corrected and the action began.
Curtis Smith, founder of the Movement 
Extravaganza, got the momentum going by 
breaking four one-inch boards with his 
head. Ron Layton, Tony Haddad, Andy 
Hahn, Robert Opalsky, and Smith followed 
this act with incredible choreographed 
moves that were fluid and graceful. Bongo 
drums, gongs and chimes provided back
ground music throughout the show.
Betty Yee showed the women the art of 
self-defense. More lessons were given in this 
area later on in the program when Susan 
Kahan fended off three men on her own.
The art of Ju-Jitsu was demonstrated by 
the Oakland School of Performing Arts 
with additional help from Smith, Layton, 
and Joe De Mar, Sr. This gentlemens art
1933:Plaid
By DAN TOBIAS
Tartan Staffwriter
Okay, get out a piece of paper and put all 
books away; its time for a quiz. This subject 
is former names of CMU buildings. Everyb
ody knows that up until last year, Wean 
Hall was called Science Hall (and it still is 
called that by some diehards now), but do 
you know what buildings the following 
names referred to? 1. Engineering Hall, 2. 
Administration Hall, 3. Industries Hall, and 
4. Machinery Hall. The answers are at the 
end of this column.
10 YEARS AGO: Jan. 23, 1973
In reference to the bust at Beta Sigma 
Rho, President Cyert has made a statement 
to the effect that ince possession of drugs is 
illegal, the consequences of the law should 
be expected and that he wouldnt argue the 
issue of whether smoking marijuana is good 
or bad, but would maintain that the law
proved to senior citizens that they can defend 
themselves quite ably.
On the other end of the scale, Mike 
Andrascik showed that children can also be 
dangerous to tangle with. Andrascik gave an 
impressive performance, complete with a 
demonstration of his skill in handling the 
nunchuks. Nunchuks are dangerous wea
pons composed of two short sticks attached 
by a short chain. The weapon is whirled 
around the body at an amazing speed with 
only the skill of the user preventing serious 
self-injury.
Martial Arts becomes even more impres
sive when aided by weaponry. Sticks, 
machetes, spears, swords, and even a sickle 
shaped object can be used to fend off 
attackers. Layton and Smith demonstrated 
the use of machetes with Martial Arts in 
their act entitled, Machete Magic. They 
certainly displayed a sorcerers skill in han
dling both their machetes and each other 
without getting injured in the process.
Hahn, a senior in Visual and Verbal 
Communications at CMU, gave an impres
sive show with the nunchuks. After an 
amazing demonstration using one set of 
nunchuks, he endangered himself by 
adding yet another set of nunchuks. The 
audience was spellbound.
Haddad then broke a cement block with 
his hands, followed by Layton, who jumped 
over four people and still managed to chop a 
one-inch piece of wood cleanly in half with
should be obeyed in all cases, not just those 
cases where one chooses to obey it. . .
I have great respect for President Cyert. I 
think he may be one of the best and most fair 
minded university presidents in the country. 
I also think that his statement makes great 
sense in principle. One cannot arbitrarily 
break a law one disagrees with unless one is 
prepared to accept the consequences and 
law-breaking shouldnt be condoned. I 
agree that the best action to take in such a 
case is to try to change the law. But in rela
tion to this issue in the real world, I think 
President Cyerts statement is surprisingly 
naive and impractical.
The simple fact is that smoking mari
juana is such an established social activity 
for such a large segment of the campus that I 
feel absurd and redundant even saying it. I 
doubt that there has been a person who has 
graduated from CMU in the last four years
his feet.
The crowd really went wild when a bed of 
nails was brought onto the stage. Haddad 
lay himself down on the nails and four pie
ces of cement approximately one-inch thick 
were placed on his stomach. Smith 
appeared on stage with a sledge hammer, 
and while the crowd held its breath the 
hammer swung down toward Haddad. The 
blocks fell apart under the force of the 
hammer and Haddad was helped up after 
being meticulously dusted off. The audience 
broke into appreciative applause.
In one of the final acts of the show, Lucy 
Donaldson showed the audience that even 
elderly ladies can come to the rescue of a
who hasnt either sold, smoked, or at least 
seen pot. (From an editorial by Stephen 
Saunders.)
From the Computation Center News: 
The student self-education account (Y415) 
has been increased from $1.00 to $2.50 per 
month. The increase became effective Janu
ary 1. This item went on to say that the 
accounts could be used for various punchyoung man. She successfully beat up the 
three boys who had attacked John McAllis
ter, helped McAllister get to his feet, and 
then calmly walked off the stage. After the 
show, both Donaldson, and her husband 
Tom cheerfully recommended Martial Arts 
to anyone from eight to eighty-eight. 
Both Mr. and Mrs. Donaldson have been 
taking Martial Arts for two years. They 
wouldnt reveal their ages and only said, 
...older than twenty and younger than 
ninty.
Though the crowd only filled half the 
ballroom, the enthusiastic applause and 
cheers proved that for the people who did see 
the show, it was well worth the time.
card batch-processing systems, as well as for 
time-sharing on a PDP-8 system.
50 YEARS AGO: Jan. 24, 1933 
The headline "Tartans Drop Hard Battle 
To Panthers describes a basketball game 
against Pitt. Doctor Carlsons great aggre
gation erf basketball players from across the 
park put on a fine defensive exhibition last 
continued on page 12
HAIR PEOPLE
121 OAKLAND AVE 682-9480
Bring this coupon and get:
or
$15 OFF
any
stylecut
all
perms
Perms Need Appointment 
Coupons expire 3/1/83
The CMU Alumni Association cordially invites you to attend the
Senior Banquet
on Saturday the 29th of January, 1983 in Skibo.
7:00 p.m. Senior Reception in the Ballroom 
8:00 p.m. Dinner in the Kiltie Dining Room 
AB Dance in the Ballroom Immediately Following Dinner 
Please respond by picking up your ticket at the Alumni Office, 
505 Warner Hall, by Wednesday the 26th of January, 1983. 
You must present your student l.D. card when picking up your ticket. 
Dress is semi-formal.
drops tough hoops battle to Pitt
Applications are now available for Delta Delta Delta Ser
vice Projects scholarships. At Camegie-Mellon one 1983 
award of $200 will be made to full-time undergraduate 
women. The recipients of these awards are automatically 
eligible for one of the national Zoe Gore Perrin awards of 
$1,000, with no additional applications or procedures.
Application forms are available from the Director of Finan
cial Aid, Dean of Students, or the Service Projects Chairman 
of the campus Tri Delta chapter. Completed applications 
must be returned on or before March 1, 1983.
Since 1943, Tri Delta has awarded a total of over 
$1,178,718 to 5,554 deserving students. In 1982, approxi
mately 75% of the scholarships were awarded to students 
who were not members of Tri Delta.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanJanuary 25, 1983
Pitt dunks 
CMU in'33
continued from page 11
Wednesday, but from all indications such a 
tight defensive was almost unnecessary. To 
sum up the whole situation in very few illchosen words, it was just not a Carnegie 
night. Max Hannums collection of deadeye 
marksmen missed their buckets equally well 
from any angle. Even Bobbie Smith, as sure 
a shot as has played in Pittsburgh in many a 
year, was apparendy deserted by the gods.
The Tartan regrets the error in an article 
in the issue of January 17, which stated Dr. 
Baker was to speak before Ex-Kaiser Wil
helm, and wishes to correct that statement 
now, by saying that the lecture of Dr. Baker 
on Friday was delivered before the Kaiser 
Wilhelm Gesselschaft, the last word of this 
organization meaning society in 
English.
And now the answers to the quiz: 1. 
Doherty Hall, 2. Baker Hall, 3. Porter Hall, 
and 4. Hamerschlag Hall. If you got all 4 
right you get an A, 3 right is a B, 2 right is a 
C, 1 right is a D, and if you get none, you 
fail, and you had better drop out!
Bill Stein, Vice President Management Supervisor of Ketchum Communications, makes a presentation on careers in advertising, as Judy 
Hofscher, Vice President Associate Media Director, and Chris Labash, Vice President Creative Group Head, look on. The troika from 
Ketch um stressed that having a strong resume is less important in getting a job in advertising than having the right personality. Most 
important is the ability to get along with other people, because much of the work is done by groups rather than individuals, and advertisers 
have to deal with a wide variety of clients. Ms. Hofscher pointed out that promotion is based on talent rather than tenure, and that a top 
executive can earn between $75,000 and $200,000 per year. Hard times have hit the advertising business, too, however. When asked if 
Ketchum hires college students, Stein replied: Yes. But not this year.
ENGINEERS/ COMPUTER SCIENCE GRADUATES
We re McDonreil Douglasone of the world s leaders in fast 
moving exciting fields military and commercial aircraft, 
missiles, spacecraft, electronics, automation and health 
services
And we re looking for people who are looking for the oppor
tunity to put what they've learnea to work-people like you
What we offer is a wide variety of advanced technical pro
jects and a chance to get mvolvea really involved in pro
grams on the leaamg edge of technology
So, if you're an engineer or computer specialist who wants a 
job with real responsibility, sign up at your Placement Office 
for an interview
We'll be on campus
Wednesday, 
February 23,1983
MCDONNEi-L DOUGLAS
An equal opportunity employer 
U S Citizenship required

---------------------------------------------------

oe FreshmanBy Mark Levine
ONUl WE 
WE*S tffjHl VMENT1NES
OMi! >
I AIWA*
SHAKE 
WHEN I 
THINK
^ AiftOv T
UH- HUHl ^ X TheeN ws
N\1 WOMJ^OO. 
T SHAKI ON \T.
--Bur THT 
ktttefc *, 
Xfl OUT/imy wy
/I liET ttYSflf 
' $20 X CAN'T 
FtNO A G*L J 
F^ENO Qy f?
v THW! A
NO GO,HUH? 
BACK TO PlZZ/M
TRY THIS hJEW 
DOfc FOOD LEX!
WELL7
RUG6Y
fw600O-Oen
Interested? Then stop by!
-no experience needed.
spring meeting TOMORROW (Jan. 26)
I
skibo room 11 9=00 pm
for more info, call Adam 687-0381
funded by activities fee

---------------------------------------------------

Saturday 29 January 1983 
Dance begins 9 pm to 2 am 
Band ^'Gigolo and guest DJ
Omegemasit yf reayn fm DeyyTn ncfenE
SPONSORED BY AB DANCE. FUNDED BY ACTIVITIES FEE.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
Tootsie uses old gags to explore modem questions
tic, and stubborn thespian, to a responsive 
and compassionate man. Dorothy gives 
Dorsey quite an education.
The only two things keeping us from 
dissolving totally into the perfecdy por
trayed world of a soap opera, and Dorothys 
part in it, are the performances of Terri Garr 
as Dorseys half-crazed friend and Dabney 
Coleman as the male chauvinistic, dictator
ial director. Not that the performances are 
bad-they fit in perfecdy in the company of 
talented actors-but both of these actors have 
played these roles so many times before, it 
only distracts from the picture to see it again.
How many times will we see the talented 
Terri Garr as a neurotic woman and as for 
Mr. Coleman, this role is just a repeat of his 
creation in 9 to 5.
Unfortunately fof the movie industry 
only rarely have comedies been hailed as 
both critical and commercial successes, and 
they rarely capture any awards. Tootsie fol
lows in the footsteps of groundbreaking 
movies like M*A*S*H and Annie Hall by 
giving us a rare, funny, half-serious view of 
the adult world. This is not just Dustin 
Hoffman in drag getting himself out of a lot 
of tight spots.
Tootsie is not a great ha, ha comedy. 
Often youll find yourself full of forced 
laughter (the worst kind) but the story line 
will keep you smiling for two hours.
Even if there were no comedy, Tootsie 
holds itself up as a suspense yam. How long 
will Michael Dorsey keep going on as 
Dorothy Michaels? Who will recognize 
him? How will he escape Dorothys costume 
without tearing down the self-confidence 
Dorothy has given the people around her? 
And the big question for moviegoers.. .How 
long will it be before Dorothy Michaels 
designer labels are found at finer stores 
everywhere?Poet, novelist returns to 
CMU as first visiting writer
By DEBBIE NIR
Tartan Staffwriter
The English have been doing it for years. 
Dressing up as women, that is. For Benny 
Hill, Graham Chapman and Eric Idle (or 
Python) and others, the nucleus of 
most funny skits means don
ning a wig and a too-tight, usu
ally matronly, dress. Before 
them these were Jack Lemmon and 
Tony Curtis, and prior to that. . .well, the 
list goes on.
But a new twist has been added to the saga 
of the dress-up game. English comics never 
attempt to convince the audience that they 
truly are women. On the other hand, the 
film Tootsie, written by Larry Gelbart, Mur
ray Schisgal, with help from Elaine May 
and Barry Levinson, takes us into a different 
world.
One man, Dustin Hoffman (as Michael 
Dorsey,) successfully persuades both those 
around him and the moviegoer, that he is
photo bv Scott Safier
This sculpture by Ben Smith was part of the 
Forbes Gallery Show for last week.
Dorothy Michaels, actress and feminist 
extraordinaire. All this with the help of just 
a Daisy shaver, a good pair of support hose, 
and a performance from the heart.
Dorsey is an actor who is warned by his 
agent (ironically played with authenticity 
by Tootsie director Sidney Pollack) that 
directors refuse to hire him because of his 
determination to do things his way. To 
prove the agents remarks unjustified, Dor
sey, in drag as Dorothy Michaels, wins the 
role of a hospital administrator on a soap 
opera.
Only his roommate (Bill Murray, whose 
air-tight deadpan humor almost steals the 
film) and the agent know Dorothys real 
identity, leading to some of the most unus
ual romantic triangles ever put on celluloid.
Misunderstandings begin when he falls 
for the soaps beautiful but emotionally 
weak star (Jessica Lange) and soon her ten
derhearted father (Charles Duming) begins 
courting Dorothy. At the same time, Dorsey 
as Dorothy must fight off the advances of an 
old, lecherous male star (George Qaynes).
For both Dorsey and the audience the 
results of his metamorphosis to Dorothy 
outweigh any of the mishaps. While Dorsey 
as Dorothy fights off the eight-armed soap 
opera star and changes the lines of the show 
in mid-tape, he teaches the beautiful star he 
loves and the women watching the show 
how to stand up for their rights. One wishes 
that real soap opera (or daytime drama as 
those who work in the business like to call it) 
writers would take Dorothys success as a 
hint.
Hoffman has one of the most difficult 
roles of any actors career as he must develop 
two roles at once. With incredible sensitivity 
he takes Dorothy from a nervously twitch
ing, slighdy angered actress, to a stubborn, 
aggressive and independent woman. His 
real triumph is keeping Dorothy feminine 
despite the pushiness and he is so successful 
at it that we often forget it is Hoffman on the 
screen. With equal brilliance Hoffman takes 
Dorsey from a somewhat bland, chauvinis
By SUSAN BOSSI
Tartan Staffwriter
On January 19, Lisa Zeidner, the first vis
iting writer of the semester, arrived at CMU 
to present her poetry and fiction in Baker 
Hall 231 at 8 p.m. Following an introduc
tion by Gerald Costanzo, assistant professor 
of English, Zeidner read various selections of 
her poetry.
These selections were taken trom Talk
ing Cure, a book of poetry that was pub
lished in 1982 by Texas Tech Press. They 
included A Facsimile of the Rosetta 
Stone, a poem describing historical pieces 
in the Philadelphia Museum and a more 
humorous work entitled Teaching Him to 
Read.
Following the poetry readings, Zeidner 
read the first chapter of her latest novel, 
Alexander Freed, that is expected to be 
published by Alfred A. Knopf in May of this
year. Also mentioned was Zeidners first 
novel, Customs, that was published by 
the same company in June of 1981.
This visit was Zeidners first return trip to 
CMU where she received her undergraduate 
degree in cieative writing in 1976. Before her 
graduation, she had also become one of the 
first students to work with Costanzo on the 
University Press Poetry Series.
After Zeidner left CMU, she attended 
Johns Hopkins where she received a Master 
of Arts in The Writing Seminar. Following 
her studies at Johns Hopkins, Zeidner 
became a junior editor at Random House. 
In addition, she took subsequent courses at 
Washington University.
Zeidner is presently an assistant professor 
of English in the Camden Collge of Arts and 
Sciences at Rutgers University. She resides 
in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
the movies
Blotto, a humorous band from upstate New York, ham it up at their Ballroom concert held last week.
photo by Steve Winawer
CMU is becoming nationally known. 
Besides the computer policy which made 
the pages of the New York Times and News
week, beautiful Margaret Morrison Carne
gie Hall recently appeared in the 
nationally-released movie Creepshow. John 
Cantine, Tartan Assistant Entertainment 
Editor, and Lauren Schneider, Tartan 
staffwriter, recently interviewed George A. 
Romero, the director of Creepshow, about 
filming at CMU, and about filmmaking in 
general. Some excerpts from that interview 
follow.
Tartan: You went to CMU, didnt you?
Romero: Yes, I went to CMU for a long 
while. Didnt graduate, but I was there for a 
long while.
Tartan: What did you study?
Romero: Painting and design for three 
years, and then transferred to theater for 
three years.
Tartan: Whered you go from there?
Romero: We started a litde company. A 
bunch of us got together to make a film with 
cameras we bought with money leached 
from an uncle of mine. We went out and we 
actually shot the movie; it was a 254-hour 
film in 16mm with no soundtrack. So then 
we went downtown, and found a music 
publishing company that had a little studio, 
ahd asked them to do the music for it They 
did a track, we never put it on the film, they 
went bankrupt, and we moved into their
offices.
Tartan: Did you work in California at all?
Romero: I worked in New York for a 
while when I was at CMU. I was bom and 
raised in New York, and the first couple of 
years of school, I would go home for the 
summer. A friend of mine had a union card, 
and was working on a couple of produc
tions, and I got on a couple of productions. I 
got on a Hitchcock film. I didnt do any
thing; I brought coffee around.
Tartan: How does your production com
pany, Laurel Entertainment, work? For 
instance, do you handle distribution?
Romero: No. We just make the product 
The name of the game is trying to get the 
film made, to get it financed. Unfortunately, 
for people who want to be cost efficient and 
dont want to play the Hollywood game, its 
really tough. Very few movies are making 
money. Movies are grossing more money 
than ever before, but very few films are mak
ing a profit 
The break-even level on films is extraordi
nary. The break-even on Honky Tonk Man 
was eighty-some million dollars, and it 
grossed three million and died a miserable 
death. People just are not going out. People
used to say "Lets go to the movies tonight, 
and then go to the paper to see what was 
playing. Now they say "Lets go see E.T. 
The toughest thing, then, is to raise money 
to make movies, and to keep your head 
above water.
Tartan: Speaking of movies dying a death 
that perhaps they didnt deserve, whatever 
happened to your earlier film, Knightndersi 
Romero: Nobody went to see it Actually, 
that film has gotten the best reviews of any 
film Ive made. But nobody went to see it 
First erf all, it came out around die time of 
continued on page 18
Filmmaker 
talks about

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanJanuary 25, 1983
"Ghandi" depicts the Mahatmas life accurately
By VINCE GUINTO
Tartan Contributing Editor
It is possible to live in peace. This state
ment sums up the teachings and philosophy 
of Mohandas K. Gandhi, the subject of a 
film which was twenty years in the making.
, Called Bapu (father) by his 
jjjr friends, and Mahatma (great
JpF soul) by a nation, Gandhis life
is given an accurate treatment in 
the Richard Attenborough film Gandhi. 
The film covers the major aspects of Gand
his life from the early 1890s until his death 
in 1948. Along the way, glimpses are caught 
of many of the British and Indian leaders of 
the period, as well as a depiction of the 
living conditions in Indian villages and 
cities.
The film was very ambitious in its scope, 
covering events over a 56-year period taking 
place in South Africa, India, Britain, and 
Pakistan. Visually the film was a master
piece, thanks to the experience of Billy Wil
liams and Ronnie Taylor, the directors of 
photography.
The films only weakness was that, while 
it accurately depicted the important events 
of the Mahatamas life, it offered very little 
insight into the motivation behind the man. 
The only personal glimpses of Gandhis life 
were with his wife, Kasturba. In South 
Africa early in the film, Gandhi is shown in 
one scene to be tom between love for his wife 
and the beginnings of his career as a spirit
ual leader.
The scene was a short confrontation
between Gandhi and Kasturba. Apparently 
meant to give the viewer a glimpse of Gand
his dedication to his cause, the scene was 
actually rather inconclusive and offered no 
insight into the reasons behind the man.
The quality of Gandhis cast is excep
tional. Beyond doubt, Ben Kingsleys por
trayal of the Mahatma will warrant an 
Academy Award nomination at the least. 
The Indian supporting actors, including 
Rohini Hattangady as Kasturba, Roshan 
Seth as Pandit Nehru (first prime minister of 
India), Saeed Jaffrey as Sardar Patel (Neh
rus deputy), and Alyque Padamsee as 
Mohammed Ali Jinnah (first Pakistani 
prime minister), had the meatiest of the sup
porting parts and all performed excellently.
Ian Charleson had the most substantial of
the British supporting roles, playing the 
Reverend Charles Freer Andrews, a mission
ary who first met Gandhi in South Africa 
and became his lifelong friend. Fans of Mar
tin Sheen may be slightly diappointed, not 
at the quality of his performance but at the 
quantity. Sheen portrayed Walker, a West
ern reporter whose character is based on an 
amalgam of several reporters who followed 
Gandhis life and career. Trevor Howard 
John Gielgud, Edward Fox, and Candice 
Bergen all made excellent cameo appearan
ces throughout the film.
All in all, Gandhi is one of the best 
films of the year, well worth the effort to see. 
Every facet of the film came across excel
lently, and combined to form an exceptional 
film.
Local poets hit the airwaves Tuesday nights on WQED
By SUSAN BOSSI
Tartan Staffivriter
Something new is happening on WQEDFM. Tuesday, January 18, marked the pre
miere of Poets of Pennsylvania, an 
eight-part radio series presenting interviews 
and readings with eight American writers. 
For eight consecutive Tuesdays at 7:30 p.m., 
one writer will be featured in a fifteenminute slot.
Included in the presentations is CMUs 
assistant professor of English, Gerald Costanzo. In addition to his teaching position, 
Costanzo is also the editor of the University 
Press Poetry Series and The Three Rivers 
Poetry Journal.
Costanzo received an M.A.T. in English 
from Harvard University and a Master of 
Arts in The Writing Seminar from Johns 
Hopkins University. At this time, he is on 
the literature panel of the Pennsylvania 
Council on the Arts and a poet for the Pen
nsylvania Poets-in-the-Schools program.
In addition to the numerous articles and
poems that have appeared in various period
icals, Costanzo has published five books. In 
the Aviary, published by the University of 
Missouri Press, won the 1974 Devins Award 
for poetry.
Other writers to appear include Diane
Ackerman, Maggie Anderson, Henry 
Braun, Daniel Hoffman, Peter Oresick, 
Sonia Sanchez, and Gerald Stem. Fellow 
poets and teachers Ed Ochester and Daniel 
Lusk will conduct the interviews with each 
writer; the host is WQEDs Dennis Bartel.
Poets in Pennsylvania is being pro
duced in association with WUHY-FM in 
Philadelphia by Mark Yacavone. The exec
utive producer is Ceci Sommers. The pro
gram is made possible by a grant from the 
Pennsylvania Council on the Arts.
Airplane II repeats same tired formula
By SRIKANTH RAJAN
Tartan Staffivriter
It was released December 10 last year and 
did reasonably well at the box office. Fright
ened pilot Ted Striker (Robert Hays) and 
stewardess Elaine Dickenson (Julie Hagerty) have come a long way since 
landing the eccentric Airplane! 
flight to Chicago. Striker is now 
a test pilot for the first lunar 
shuttle, and Elaine is a computer officer in 
the space program. But their relationship is 
malfunctioning again, and so is the shutde 
as it leaves on its maiden moon voyage.
Why Airplane II should be retitled Airplain II has to do with overindulgence in 
literal jokes; it has more than its share of
these:
Er. . .excuse, me, ladies and gentlemen, 
but were just a tad off course and as soon as 
ROCK, our super-intelligent, pan
dimensional computer. . .(passenger says: 
How much is a tad?) Well, about 500,000 
miles.
Oh.
This is all well and good if Finkleman 
(writer and director Airplane IT) had 
sprinkled these sparingly throughout the 
film and had relied more on an innovative 
approach. The plot was predictable; surely
Striker and Elaine would put their quarrels 
aside and get together to prevent the shuttle 
from flying into the sun. Lloyd Bridges* 
repeated his Airplane! role as the crazy, 
hard-drinking (and smoking and sniffing) 
flight controller.
Also, I was disappointed that Raymond 
Burr, William Shatner (Star Trek I and II), 
and Sandahl Bergman (Conan), and others 
only made cameo appearances. They would 
have made for a better movie if their charac
ters werent left flat as they were in Finklemans script, although Lynn Stalmaster 
(Tootsie) did a remarkable job with casting.
continued on page 18
20 to 50% OFF
On All Merchandise!
Including: Clogs, 
Boots, Purses, 
Shoes, Moccasins 
and Accessories.
aOh q-b:-D vuiFi 
COa,OWww
qni d-o:/A alAll veIe , CAll reIe 
N-fFED-/SA aaAll veIe , CAll reIe
DALE would like to 
apologize for the party that 
wasn't. Due to circum
stances beyond our control, 
it had to be cancelled.
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
For a confidential friend call:
mxVTmxjT
dsRfsR rPMe WCO,lWhHUi-uiE csFf/ LhH,lWlWIs k-::i/ hLw,wlOlUFf:iE csFf/ OLO,aOll
PREGNANT? Cali ATA 
Let's talk about your options.
'qmxjT* yhaO 2Ha,OhOl 
rgT&jvjcB TNxj&A Hwa,h2lC 
wlL ri vuiFi. Downtown 
L,al -epe 1* aa -epe,a np 
IVN
VEii -D 5s0oDifo-: o0sEp-6
fos. 5sFSi:oP. nEiP-5/ 
fiSfoP -D Ei:-fiD SiEuo5iSe K K
ALTERNATIVES TO ABORTION 
INC
a non-profit organization

---------------------------------------------------

January 25, 1983The TartanPage 17
ichael Jackson's 'Thriller" attracts a lot of talent
 By KJ. SENIOR
mrtan Staffurritrr
 Once again Michael Jackson has released 
fantastic piece of vinyl, entitled Thriller 
pic 38112). The album contains nine of
e best songs to be found in the pop R&B 
idiom. Like the advertisement 
for the album says, The excitment never lets up.
This LP is particularly an 
itstanding feat for the 24-year-old showbiz 
i Besides co-produdng Thriller, Jackson 
mposed four of the songs  The Girl is 
ine, a duet with Paul McCartney, Billie 
n, Wanna Be Startin Somethin, and 
I Seat It, which features an atrocious guitar 
| lo by Eddie Van Halen.
This album should be considered a very 
ial event because of the personnel 
ected. Vincent Price is enlisted in this allr line up to narrate a scary tale found at 
end of Thriller. The rock group Toto, 
turing David Paich (keyboards), Steve 
kather (guitars), Jeff Porcaro (drums) 
d Steve Porcaro (synthesizers), has the hott rhythm section out and plays host to 
ft>st of the cuts. Louis Johnson (bass) and 
nes Ingram (backing vocals) can also be 
nd on many of the selections.
It is such a pleasure to see a breaking 
| wn of the barriers between black and 
lite music. Jackson does this with his 
iterial, musicians and himself, becoming 
uccessful crossover artist.
Too long has there been a prejudice of
 rsic based on racial feelings. We can sin ely respect those individuals in the indusPf who purposely fight against those
 mitive ideas people have about color and 
|isic, e.g. Michael Jackson.
Side one starts with one of the six dance 
ies on the album, Wanna Be Startin 
Hmethin, destined to be a favorite in the
discos, as well as The Girl is Mine, a story 
well told and performed by Jackson and 
McCartney  a great team we hope to hear 
more from in the future.
Opening side two we have a rock-ier 
tune for the discos, Beat It, with Van Halens unbeatable lightning solo and a beat in 
the beginning similar to the Dazz bands 
Let It Whip, and Billie Jean, a com
mentary of the social values people have 
concerning relationships today, currently 
the hit single hoping to help propel the LP 
over the sales of the six million dollar mark 
that Off the Wall set.
Human Nature is a mellow ballad 
caressed by the haunting vocals and timely 
array of flowing rhythms and melodies that 
make the song the best crossover tune on the 
album.
Side two closes with a sensual ballad
entided The Lady in My Life, the happier 
consequence of Shes Out of My Life from 
Off the Wall. Jackson ardently signs this 
with the hint of actually wanting to expe
rience a love in his life.
The only criticism that can made of this 
album is it is cautious, with a commercially 
laid-out formula. The sound is slick, maybe 
too slick. The production is finely polished, 
and the end result is a wide appeal to the 
mass audiences.
But whats wrong with that?
The bottom line is, Michael Jackson is a 
prodigious artist. The material on the 
album is excellent, and all the songs relay 
feeling to the listener. Whether its to dance, 
relax, romance or just feel good to, his mes
sage is conveyed.
Utilizing the best producer and engineer 
around, Quincy Jones and Bruce Swedien,
respectively, and incorporating the finest 
studio musicians and songwriters, the 
album is destined to be the best pop album 
of the year. Four of the album cuts have 
already received significant airplay. Stran
gely enough these four tunes all belong to 
the credit of Jackson.
It seems that Jackson is forming his own 
writing genre. The recent Diana Ross song 
Muscles, and a past Jacksons hit Heart
break Hotel are attributed to his compos
ing talents. The future for this shining star 
could not look any brighter. With thirteen 
successful years of experience in the busi
ness, many more outstanding feats can be 
expected from this impeccable artist. We can 
only sit and watch this rising star rise even 
higher, and blossom into the mature enter
tainer that is likely to be greater than his 
predecessors.
Dance company thumps into Pittsburgh
By DIANE THODOS
Tartan Staffwriter
Who would ever believe that the daughter 
of Edward VII was named Princess Harry? 
Much less who would believe that a contro
versial and innovative dance company now 
; touring the United States calls 
itself Harry?
The company, began and 
headed by dancer Senta Driver, 
came to Pittsburgh to perform on December 
3 and 4. It proved to be no easy evening of 
entertainment: dances with a vocabulary 
very different from that of traditional dance 
forms.
Dance was not something Senta had 
always wanted to do. Rather, she says It 
came and got me and I had to do it. After 
acquiring a B.A. in Latin and Philosophy 
from Ohio State and Bryn Mawr University
she joined the Paul Taylor Dance Company 
and performed with them between 1967 and 
1973. It was in 1974, spending a year recover
ing from tendonitis that she began to ques
tion traditional approaches to dance, what 
should be danced about and how. I think 
back to 1930 and feel its time we made a 
contribution to the vocabulary, said Senta 
If we dont keep feeding the new dance 
tradition it will wither away.
Harry has an unmistakably bold style of 
physical movement dealing with body 
weight and gravity. Where others would 
tread lighdy, these dancers thump the floor, 
working powerfully into it with physical 
muscularity. Senta is aware of the thump
ing controversy she raises. I think of it as 
movement you can hear, she explains.
Not only does she work with movement 
that is controversial but with nontraditional
proportions in the dancers themselves. One 
of her dances calls for the female dancer of a 
pas de deux to lift her male counterpart from 
his waist. To manipulate the weight of a 
man is a far cry from the task of the frail 
ballerina and calls for a different sort of body 
and approach to dance altogether. Senta 
comments I believe in the possibilities of 
the human body, all sorts of possibilities we 
have not developed or examined.
Sentas dances combine elements of 
humor, sensuality, and vital possibilities of 
movement, but all have in common a com
plex set of psychological synapses, complex 
moments of drama and wit which become 
driving forces behind pieces. In one piece a 
man and a woman batde at physical odds 
with each other while Senta and another 
dancer sit upon the floor, watching them 
continued on page 18
'JLHlISA
MEMBERSHIP MEETING!
RARTY!
PiLam parties are open to the general 
campus, despite rumors printed in cer
tain student-funded newspapers.
ALL IMERESIED STUDENTS WELCOME 
FOB MORE ML CULL OR
TUNE IN TO
Sat. Jan.29Pizza Party
Wed. Feb.2Nacho & Games
Sat.12Casino PiLam
Fri. Apr.1April Fools Party
Sat.23Band Mixer ___CO
A -ihi
 i*
578-2883Pi Lambda Phi
1057 More wood Avenue

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanJanuary 26, 1983
George Romero discusses Creepshow, other movies
continued from page 15
Excalibur, and everyone would write about 
them in the same breath, and say it was all a 
part of this new sword and sorcery rou
tine. Knightriders was really not about that 
at all. So I think there was some disappoint
ment on that level. But the attacks that it 
took were because there wasnt enough 
action, it wasnt staged well enough.
Tartan: You have done a lot of work in 
Pittsburgh. What attraction does it have for 
you?
Romero: Well, I grew up in the Bronx, 
and I was a real inner-dty kid. My attraction 
to this place is, number one, you can drive 
for twenty minutes and be in the country, 
and, number two, there was the work ethic 
and the whole ethnic coexistence. I find that 
there are many things about the middle of 
the country that are five or six years behind 
the big metropolitan centers, Los Angeles 
and New York for example, and I like hav
ing the little bit of extra time to get comforta
ble with whats coming.
Tartan: It was unusual to do Creepshow 
as five vignettes. Not many films do that, 
and it seems like a risky thing to have tried.
Romero: There used to be a lot of them, 
but television really killed that. Holly
woods just been sitting around saying you 
cant make an anthology movie, nobody 
wants to go see it. They dont know that 
nobody wants to go see it; theyre just 
responding to the fact that nobody has gone 
to see one in the last ten years. They forget 
that there hasnt been one in the last ten 
years.
Thats the way they think; they try to 
quantify everything. They are business exec
utives, and theyre trying to justify their
salaries. Very few of them are into the 
medium; thats the unfortunate problem. 
Everything is dealmaking. Weve been 
involved with six different negotiations 
with the majors. For example, Salems Lot, 
thats how I met Stephen King. Filmmakers 
have Steve categorized  Steve is a novelist, 
therefore he cant write a screenplay. Creep
show was the first screenplay that Steve has 
written that has been produced, and yet hes 
written screenplays for every one of his nov
els; theyre not using his screenplays.
Tartan: About the Margaret Morrison 
shots for Creepshow  were they supposed 
to be finished before classes started?
Romero: Yes, in the script it was sup
posed to be an empty school, and the CMU 
people also didnt want us shooting there 
and disrupting classes, but the rest of our 
schedule got fouled up and we couldnt get 
there. After a lot of negotiating, they let us 
do it.
Tartan: Did you have any problems 
shooting there?
Romero: No, it was real easy. They were 
very cooperative, we didnt have any prob
lems. Nobody hassled us, and none of the 
students got on our cases, so it was fun. The 
actors took a little flap; well, not really flap, 
but Hal (Holbrook) would pull up in the 
car  that would be the scene, pull up in a 
car and get out  and people would give 
him a big round of applause. Hals mind 
was blown a little bit.
Tartan: The studio sets for the vignette 
The Crate were very well done  they 
looked as though they actually could have 
been in Margaret Morrison.
Romero: Well, Cletus (Anderson, CMU 
professor and set designer for Creepshow) is
Permanent 6enters open days, 
evenings and weekends.
Low hourly cost. Dedicated full
time staff.
Complete TEST-n-TAPc?Mfacilities 
for review of class lessons and 
supplementary materials.
Small classes taught by skilled 
instructors.
rOur ahhfM
 Opportunity to make up missed 
lessons.
 Voluminous nome-study materials 
constantly updated by research
ers expert in their field.
 Opportunity to transfer to.and 
continue study at any of our 
over 85 centers.
OTHER COURSES AVAILABLE
GRE PSYCH & BIO  MAT  PCAT  OCAT  VAT  TOEFL 
MSKP  NMB  VQE  ECFMG  FLEX  NDB  NLE
. * Call Days Pve< & Wppknck
I* Essex House Li2M
 Corners Center, N eg ley & Baurr 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SWCE 1938661-2772
an extraordinary set designer, because he 
doesnt run amok. Hes not looking to put 
his mark on anything. He makes sets that 
not only achieve what you want them to 
emotionally but that are absolutely 
believable.
Tartan: How would you compare Creep
show to other films in the horror genre  
Poltergeist, the Friday the 13th movies, and 
those kinds of films?
Romero: I dont think Friday the 13th 
belongs in the horror genre. Those movies, I 
think, are a genre all to themselves. They 
throw back to Psycho, the demented slasher 
whos preying on someone in a situation of 
isolation. I think it is a simple way for peo
ple who dont have an affection for the genre 
to create something they can sell as a horror 
film. There are very few of them that are 
done well. I think Creepshow relates more 
to Poltergeist, or to more old-fashioned 
kinds of horror movies.
But some people, major critics, have actu
ally said, well, here is another demented 
slasher movie, (about Creepshow). A lot of 
the criticism that Creepshow got is that it 
wasnt gory enoiigh. Our reviews came out 
about 60% positive. Of the bad reviewing, Id 
say about 25% attacked us for being too vio
lent, and the other 15% attacked us for not 
being violent enough. Ill show you irate 
articles saying, We thought when Romero 
and King got together we were going to get a 
blood feast! A lot of people criticized it for 
that, and others criticized it because it was 
that, and the fact is that it wasnt. Its really
frustrating.
Tartan: You had sort of the same probu 
with Knightriders.
Romero: Ive had that problem a lot 
guess people dont know how to respond ti 
my work, because it is not formula work. \\ 
used Hal Needhams stuntmen in Knightrid 
ers, and everyone expected it to be a Smoke 
and the Bandit type of movie. So they critic 
ized it because the stunts werent flasl 
enough. Other people criticized it because 
had all the bikers; they thought it was just a 
action, stunt film, and never noted that 
wasnt that at all.
Tartan: Whats next?
Romero: I dont know. We have a novel 
Steves called The Stand, which is huge 
would cost a lot of money, so I dont thii 
that will be next. We have a novel calli 
Mayday, which is by a Pittsburgh auth( 
The problem with that is that its an airplai 
movie, or at least thats the way tj 
industry categorizes it. There will probal 
be a Creepshow II, but I dont think that! 
going to direct it. What we might do is ha 
Steve contribute the stories, and I mig 
write the screenplay. But I dont know.
Tartan: Do you have any advice for son 
one who wants to become a filmmaker, pr 
ducer, or director?
Romero: Make movies. Get around pr 
duction; those people always need crew pe 
pie. And if your goal is to either write 
direct, then the best thing to do is towr 
and to somehow find the money to ma 
the film.
Senta's dancers give a fresh 
dimension to the "'expected'
COUPON
continued from page 17
with absorbed concentration. At the end of 
the piece Senta gets up as if to do something 
and begins to walk to center stage, but we 
never see what she intended as the curtain 
falls in her half-stride.
Unlike the approach of the Pilobolus 
Dance Company, where dance members 
become impersonal conglomerates, Sentas 
dancers are distinguished by the relation
ships they form as separate entities. On 
dancer walks up to another and shrugs h 
shoulders as if to ask Whats next? Iran 
diately her partner falls with his back to I 
floor and she jumps into his hands as if t 
procedure would and should be expectet 
Once we think we might have the gist 
her approach, a new twist of events co 
fronts us, confounds us! In her performan 
continued on page
Airplane II; wait'til it's cheap
continued from page 16
Still, A irplane II was a good movie; it had 
its funny moments. Try this one, a scene in 
the courtroom ,and this character testifies in 
support of Striker:
The Bailiff: Do you swear to tell the truth, 
the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, 
so help you God!?
Mr. Jive: I daing. The Bro was ByJO He
was fleeting out!! (Translation: I do. f 
performed exceptionally well!)
Actually, that one part had to be seer 
guess the best way to catch the pseui 
updated Airplane! (Airplane II) would be 
wait till this fall, when our revered Activit 
Board will hopefully bring it to the magic 
2210-Vision, and yes, you wont have tl 
absurd $4.50. See you at the moviel..
?Oou
ATTENTION STUDENT 
EYEGLASS WEARERS!
CUP THIS COUPON
SAVE $20.00 ON COMPLETE EYEWEAR! 
EYE EXAMS 
ALL EYE DOCTOR'S RX FILLED 
20/20 OPTICIANS
4200 MURRAY AVE AT LILAC 
(ON BUS LINE) 
COME IN AND BROWSE OR CALL 
521-6282 
(ANSWERS 24 HOURS)
(VISA-MASTER CHARGE)
COUPON
sM:iE(S do5fos-E/ 0sE 
v55sFf-fS. &)T 
1xmmxvI 1e cqqrTg $ B3x3xgx y&Nxv 
v 5:-SSo5 -55sFf-f(S Do5fos-E/ fM-f M-S 
Gii SFGSf-fo-::/ itn-DiD  o 0-5f. ofS 
fsf-: FpGiE s0 ifEoiS M-S Gii 
o5Ei-SiD G/ Wl9 -D - oDit M-S Gii 
-DDiD: U-SiD s fMi 5sfEoGFfosS s0 aw 
sFfSf-DoP -FfMsEofoiS. o -DDofos fs fMi 
fRs 5s,iDofsES. fMi u-EosFS -Sni5fS s0 
-55sFfoP. -FDofoP. f-t nE-5fo5i -D 
Ei:-fiD 0oi:DS. RMo5M -Ei ofiPE-fiD ofs 
fMi G-So5 Diui:snpifS s0 FDiE:/oP 
SfEF5fFEiS s0 i5sspo5S. Sf-foSfo5S. :-R. 
p--Pipif 5spnFfiES. -D psEie v 
pFSf 0sE -:: -55sFfoP nE-5fofosiESe
rEifo5i,'-::. x5e
EARL F CUVIS 
jfcMfsw rrwcKWllllANi D H4SMAN l FON E HAY HAflVTT S HENDRICKSON S4NDAA A H8BPD JM5 O MORROW WILLIAM R KINNfV JR JOHN C LE FERDINAND K LEVY
>MB K LOKCKE CHARLES R PUROY DONMD H SKADDfN ffOOERT T SPROUSE SHY4M SUNDER MKELG TRIER tAWRENCI AfOMfcSSN GLENN A WftSCH ffPHtN A ZfFf CHARLES 1 *L*IWC*"C*
EDITED BY W.W.COOPER-YUM IJliH
emu boekstcre
IN BAKER HALL

---------------------------------------------------

January 25, 1983The TartanPage 19
arry's Senta explains 
ance company's core
sensuality almost too private to be per
formed on stage.
In the next pieces, called A Secret Kindness
and Claiment, Senta poses as a sentimental 
figure in black who brings with her sad 
violin music she dances to with herself. She 
weaves around the frozen figures of the other 
dancers who are indifferent to her mood.
Eventually they confront her, laugh at her 
and thump her off the stage as if breaking 
their austerity as dancers. The cruelty seems 
deliberate and real.
In another piece, called Sudden Death, a 
man and woman shake themselves as if in a 
frenzy and throw themselves on the floor 
with violence to the sound of a menacing 
tick. They catch their breath in real exhaus
tion when the noise stops only to snap back 
into their tortured movements as the sound 
starts up again. The woman ends the desper
ate dance by walking up to the man, grab
bing him by the shoulders, and giving him a 
brutal kiss.
Senta Driver does not challenge the past 
for the sake of being different, but questions 
it with intelligence and consideration of 
who she is and what shes trying to do. She 
can be difficult to get to, but getting 
there is an important part of discovering 
new possibilities for expression in modem
dance which she has found. The modem dance company, Harry, form into one of their most controversial figures.
Marcelle's Typing Service
Specializes in Word 
Processing
ThesesManuscriptsResearch/term 
papersresumes/repetitive letters 
(TurabianAPAMLA strongly observed)
Fast Efficient Reasonable 
c-:: ISe 1iSf H2a,HCW2 
yOh MsFE SiEuo5i
10% discount with coupon
-ued from page 18
{A Secret Kindness, she sits on the stage in 
nfusion and nervousness. Her movements 
epict a real hesitation, as if she had sudly forgotton her part. Yet she whips the 
ence into the realization that exacdy 
hat they see on stage is what she intended, 
volving them in a deliberately embarassg moment. Its not improvisation, she 
ms Its more a meditation on skill.
Many of the dancers movements seem 
ntaneous and unpredictable, but are not 
oppy, having a method in them similar to 
e patterns one can sense in a foreign lange. The situations the dancers find 
emselves in are not logical but evoke a 
amatic feeling through what we can most 
vately and primally sense from the situaon, and Senta plays with our minds on the 
nges of what we most consciously and 
mfortably recognize while weaving a sub
thread of thought throughout her dances, 
lot of my pieces are portraits of me thinkg, she says.
The first dance, called A New Little Piece, 
rtrayed different kinds of men-women 
lationships. The woman in Sentas pieces 
nds out not only as a sensual force, but a 
isive force that can interact strongly, 
metimes violendy, with others.
I hq second piece, called Missing Persons, 
volved an intimate gymnastics offloor 
d body sliding between a man and a 
oman. While the movements were unlike 
ything recognizable from previous dance 
rms they yet leave one with a feeling of
Were looking for people 
who donlt think straight.
If youve always looked for whats 
around the comer rather than what is 
straight ahead, consider a career with 
Linkabit.
Linkabit didnt get to where it is 
today by way of tunnel vision. Were a 
leader in the design, development and 
manufacture of satellite and terrestrial 
communications equipment, specializing 
in local communication networks, 
encryption, forward error correction and 
high speed modulation. Our people are 
very creative, free thinking individuals 
who look beyond obvious solutions to 
find advanced, innovative ways to meet 
the demanding needs of this industry.
To help keep new ideas flowing, 
weve made sure that all career paths 
are flexible. Our engineers, for instance, 
are assigned to projects depending on 
their interests and abilities. As one 
assignment is completed, new 
opportunities are made available in a 
variety of areas.
Because our projects are very diverse 
and complex, we utilize the most 
advanced equipment available. And our 
staff is comprised of professionals
with a wide range of expertise.
Our company is expanding rapidly, 
and were constantly looking for 
talented people interested in 
communications systems, digital 
hardware or software engineering. We 
have positions available in San Diego, 
Boston and Washington, D.C.
qj cvIr3N xjTgkxT1NA 
IqjdvB. VTUg3vgB 2e
Please contact your College 
Placement Officer to arrange an 
interview appointment. If you are 
unable to meet with our 
representatives, please forward your 
resume with college transcripts to: 
Dennis Vincent, M/A-COM 
LINKABIT, 3033 Science Park Road, 
San Diego. CA 92121.
I)v,cqI mxjvUx. xjce
Equal Opportunity /
Affirmative Action Employer
Pregnant? 
And you didn't mean to be?
VsE - 0Eii nEiP-5/ fiSf -D 
5s0oDifo-: Mi:n. 5-:: 
Birthright -f COa 8awLL
By the Pair 7 50 Gift Packaged 
at Campus Bookstores 
Department Stores 
Newstands
Mi riE0i5f r-oE 
VsE roffSGFEPM msuiES
Introducing...

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanJanuary 25, 1983
Academy AwardsSneak peek: Will E. T. go home with an Oscar
By ERIC PATTERSON
Tartan Staffwriter
Most movie critics feel obligated around 
this time to publish their ten best films 
list. Unfortunately for you avid readers who 
collect that sort of thing, this critic is your 
% average CMU student who 
couldnt run out and see every 
release of the past year. All I can 
present are some thoughts on 
the movie year of 1982.
On the topic of best movie: take your pick. 
Although no particular film of the past year 
could be labeled a classic, 1982 was one of
the finest years for films that one can 
remember.
The fact that an excellent film like An 
Officer and a Gentleman might not even 
win a best picture nomination says every
thing. Itll also be interesting to note 
whether The World According to Garp gets 
some well-deserved recognition come Oscar 
time.
Other films that have just as good a shot 
as any at the Academy Award include The 
Verdict, Missing, Ghandi, and even the 
man-in-drag-comedy with meaning, 
Tootsie.
Fine Line's 'True West" 
truly a treat for anyone
But what about E.T.? So far its everyb
odys choice to win the Oscar for best pic
ture, and this critic for one hopes it doesnt. 
E.T. is a fine film, without a doubt, but to 
give it an Academy Award would be to place 
this film on the same pedestal as Gone With 
the Wind, The Best Years of Our Lives and 
The Deerhunter, to name a few. Otherwise, 
American cinema could be sidetracked onto 
the worst of possible paths. No longer 
would films be rewarded for a powerful mes
sage, or for the skill with which the director 
was able to employ cinematic devices to 
create theme, mood or realism.
Instead, films would earn merit because of 
their superficial aspects, because of style and 
technique, not because of any great knowl
edge the director may display of a boundless 
art form.
Best supporting actor: Lou Gossett, Jr.,
An Officer and A Gentleman (but withclog 
competition from John Lithgow). Best suj 
porting actress: Glenn Close, The 
According to Garp. Best actress: 
Streep, Sophies Choice. Best actor: Ho 
can Paul Newman be told to wait y 
another year? As sentimental favorite, heb 
a microscopic edge over British actor Be 
Kingsley, who made his motion pi^ 
debut as Gandhi. Take out a coin and flip
 its that close. And, sorry, E. T. fanatic 
Henry Thomas will not be in the runnin 
for best actor honors.
Best films this critic saw on campus la 
semester: The Seventh Seal, Its a Wonderfi 
Life, Star Wars, and Motel Hell (for one 
the greatest closing lines in cinemai 
history.)
So, until next week, well see you at tl 
movies.
By GREGG BOSSLER
Tartan Managing Editor
The Fine Line Theatre Company has one 
of its best productions on hand right now. 
Bruce Kirkpatrick and Ken Bolden combine 
to bring True West, a Sam Shepart 
drama, alive with humor and wit.
The team of Kirkpatrick and Bolden 
played well off of each other. They fought, 
reminisced and shared dreams together as 
real brothers do.
Kirkpatrick, the older and more slovenly 
brother, created a character that the audience 
feared when he showed anger, loved for his 
simplicity and got to know well through his 
off-beat humor.
Bolden, the younger preppy, 
screen writing brother, was good also. He 
handled the emotional ups and downs of the
earlier scenes and the humor of the later 
scenes equally as well. The running toast 
jokes were handled ingeniously.
The other two members of the cast, Sam 
Lane (Saul Kimmer, the producer) and 
Mary Craig (the mother), were interesting 
and amusing. However, whereas 
Kirkpatrick,, and Bolden were finely knit 
wool suit, Lane and Craig were as real as a 
polyester leisure suit. Their manners were 
too exaggerated and stagey.
The direction, by Kurt DeBar, was not 
slick enough and some of the stage business 
too contrived, mostly the scenes with the 
mother and producer in them.
This show is recommended too because of 
its humor and the characters created by 
Kirkpatrick and Bolden. The show runs 
from now until January 30, Thursdays 
through Sundays, 8:30 p.m.
Photo by
Weary workers cast concrete to complete Adamson Wing.
NOW OPEN AT 9:00 AM
MONDAY THRU FRIDAYaraopvaraopvarcopv
Eimopv
a student operated convenience 
store located on the lower level of 
Skibo Hall J
HOURS
SUNDAY  10:30 AM TO 9:30 PM
MONDAY  THURSDAY
9:00 AM TO 9:30 PM 
FRIDAY  9:00 AM TO 8:30 PM
SATURDAY 10:30 AM TO 8:30 PM
m
m i'? '\
ili 
w 
p 
i   i
A new series of career 
seminars to promote idea| 
exchange between stu 
dents and alumni
Beginning with a panel discussion:
"FROM HERE T0| 
THERE: CMU'S ROtl| 
IN YOUR PROFES
SIONAL CHOICE."
Tues., Jan 25, 6:30 p.m. 
HIGHLANDER ROOM
Guest Panelists:
 BARRY FARNOL ('52)
 ROBERT BOWDEN ('54) 
JACK MAHONY ('53)

---------------------------------------------------

Hockey team whips Wheeling in a whitewash
By STEVE WIN A WER
Tartan Photo Editor
The Tartans had a very good time in their 
game against Wheeling College last 
Wednesday as they glided to a 14-0 win.
Wednesday night at Lakeview skadng 
arena is usually the time and place for the 
hockey teams pracdce sessions. The team 
did not let the fact that Wheeling was on the 
ice with them stop them from having a good 
pracdce session.
The Tartans shelled the Wheeling tender 
with thirty-nine shots on net over the course 
of the three periods. It came to a point where 
out of sportsmanship the Tartans did not 
take the dozen or so more easy goals that 
could have easily been tallied.
Heres how the scoring fiasco went: Goal 
#1: Fifty-seven seconds into the game, Jay 
Adzema scored on a pass from Mike Panno. 
Goal #2: period 1, Bill Heyse from Andy 
Andrejko. Goal #3: Calub Corkery assisted 
by Andrejko and Heyse. Goal #4: Rob Katz 
unassisted. Goal #5: Rick Samuelson, from 
Tim Carlin and Don Heyse. Goal #6: Bill 
Heyse, assists by Calub Corkery and Andy 
Andrejko. Goal #7: Samuelson from Don 
Heyse. Goal #8: Don Heyse from Samuelson 
and Eric Spray. Goal #9: Two minutes into 
the second period, Paul Russo, on assists 
from Bob Koch and Mike Halloran. Goal 
#10: Andrejko from Bill Heyse. Goal #11: 
Photo by Steve Winawer 4:14 into the thiiri, Bob Koch from Mike 
The Tartans faced off against Wheeling College last Wednesday and crushed them 140. Wheeling managed only 4 shots on goal all game. continued on page 22
T. V. coverage fails to change b-ball results
By JEFFREY BERGMAN
Tartan Sports Editor 
The cameras mightve shown up last 
Wednesday at Skibo Gym, but the Tartan 
offense didnt.
Like their previous loss to Case Western, 
CMU had trouble putting the ball into the 
hole with the game of the line. The Blue 
Streaks from John Carrol capatilized on this 
impotency and trounced the Tartans 75-60.
The game was a close one at the half with 
John Carrol only leading by four, 33-29. 
The lead had bounced back and forth with 
CMU leading at one point 21-19. Then the 
Blue Streaks used their superior height and 
shooting advantage and outscored CMU 14- 
8 to lead at half ume. John Carrol was led by 
All-American John Colombo who had 11 at 
the half while Freshman center Rick Neff 
uncharacterisucly poured in seven.
The second half proved to be the turning 
point in the game. With the score 37-34,
Blue Streak coach Tim Baab called a time 
out. When the two teams came back on the 
floor, John Carol brought the ball down the 
floor and went into the four comers offense 
with 17:10 remaining.
At first Baabs ploy failed as CMU for
ward Kevin Resnick scored two straight 
baskets, one off a steal by sophomore guard 
Greg Gabriel. However, as the half pro
gressed the Tartans became increasingly 
frustrated and tired chasing John Carrol 
around the floor. This caused CMU to hurry 
up their offense, take many bad shots, and 
turn the ball over.
It didnt help the home teams cause at all 
that the Blue Streaks couldnt miss from the 
outside. Colombo along with guard Jim 
Pacak banged in several open jumpers as the 
Tartans were forced to double team the ball 
towards the end of the game.
Still, CMU was only down by eight with 8 Photo bv Gene Yonish
continued on page 22 CMU was forced to put up the long outside jumpers as the inside game slacked
It's the Hogs vs. the Bees
effective ground game to win. If they have 
that then that sets up Woodleys rollouts, 
long passes down the field to Nat Moore and 
Duiiel Harris, and Shulas trickery. 
Elsewhere the matchups go like this:
Special TeamsBoth squads rely on 
their ace kick returners, Mike Nelms for 
Washington and Tommy Vigonto for 
Miami. However, the Skins coverage has 
been better lately which gives them an edge.
CoachingJoe Gibbs is an excellent 
coach but no one can be given an edge over 
Don Shula. Hes been there three times 
before and knows what it takes to win the 
big game.
Chicos ChoiceThis rematch of Super 
Bowl VII should be a gritty affair. The last 
two Super Bowls at Pasadena have been 
won by AFC teams in high scoring games. I 
think Miami will win but in a defensive 
battle decided by field goals. Any team that 
can dominate the #1 offense in the AFC like 
the Dolphins did should definitely stop Mr. 
Theisman and friends. Final Score: Miami 
16 Washington 10.
rnoio oy ocntr i onmi
cameras were all over Skibo Gym to cover the Tartans loss to John Carrol 75-60.
By JEFFREY BERGMAN
Tartun Sports Editor
It should be an animal of a Super Bowl 
next Sunday as the surprise NFC champs 
Washington Redskins, led by their young 
offensive line nicknamed the Hogs, square 
off against the vicious Killer 
Bees of the AFC champs Miami 
Dolphins.
There will be many keys in 
the contest at Pasadena but the main one 
will be when Washington has the ball. Ever 
since Wide Receiver Art Monk hurt himself 
in the last game of the season, the Skins 
offense has mostly revolved around big 
fullback John Riggins. Stopping him will 
be the key because, even though the 
Washington passing attack has been 
airborne lately, the Fun Bunch Five will 
have a very difficult time against A.J. and 
Co.
On the other side of the coin, virtually the 
same thing goes for the Redskin defense. 
With David Woodley at quarterback, coach 
Don Shula believes his team must have an

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22'The TartanJanuary 25, 1983
Joe Pajer (PIKA)that league.
Haywood, whose touchdown passes led 
PIKA to the IM championship, also had the 
dubious distinction of being named to the 
first team All-Majors, which was also 
released last week. The members are the 
following:
Quarterback Jim Haywood (PIKA)
Adam Volendne (KS) 
Rick Samuelson (STAB)Playoff schedules will be up this week for 
Darts and Racquetball. Check the IM bul
letin board for details.
Water Basketball, Handball, and Wrestling 
entries are due Thursday at 4:30. A commissioner is still needed for Wrestling. Bridge 
entries are due today.
A record number of 101 IM Basketball 
teams have entered the 1983 CMU season. 
The commissioners are Majors, Mike Kelly 
and Randy Da Canal x4058, Intermediates, 
Bob McNail 681-1182, and Minors and 
Womens Jim Borowicz 681-1182. Please
Joe Scard (PIKA) 
Steve Trapp (BTP) 
Randy White (BTP) 
Pat Farrel (PIKA) 
Tim Nagy (BTP)
Drakulic signed by USFL
touchdowns.
Drakulic is a graduate of Gateway High 
School and was a member of ATO.
Gary Drakulic, a three-year starter at 
tight-end for the CMU Tartans from 1979- 
81, announced the signing of a two-year 
contract with the Birmingham Stallions of 
the United States Football League (USFL) 
on January 6. Drakulic, a 6'2" 230 lb. native 
of Monroeville, PA, will report to Bir
mingham and Stallion Head Coach Rollie 
Dotsch Jan. 24.
Drakulic, who earned a bachelors degree 
from CMU in administration and manage
ment science in Dec. 1981, was an AllPresidents Athletic Conference selection in 
his sophomore, junior and senior years. In 
three seasons under Tartan Head Coach 
Chuck Klausing, Drakulic caught 35 passes 
for 662 yards (18.9 yds/recp.) and six touch
downs. In 1980 he led the Tartans with 18 
reception for 378 yards and four
continued from pege 21
Halloran. Goal #12: Mike Panno assisted by 
Rob Katz and Goalie Bob Kosakowski. Goal 
#13: Mike Halloran from Don Heyse. And 
finally, Bill Schwartz from Bill Heyse and 
Jay Adzema.
This game wasnt very important to the 
Tartans except for the fact that it was a good 
chance for the fourth and fifth lines to get 
some playing time. Some of the players did, 
however, play good games. Jay Adzema 
played very well at defense and will 
probably become a more regular player.
Photo by Eric Gohr
The Tartans dived into action last week against Allegheny.
Hoopsters
Beaten again
continued from pege 21
minutes left. But, from there on in, the 
offense stalled. The inside game of Neff and 
senior Carl Mulac was stopped cold by a 
collapsing John Carrol defense.
This was where the Tartans suffered. 
Besides Gabriel, CMU doesnt have a pure 
shooter who can consistently hit the outside 
jumper. John Carrol capatilized on this defi
ciency by controlling the defensive boards 
and then running the fast break to blow 
open the game.
The stats at the end of the contest showed 
Gabriel leading the CMU scoring attack 
with 14 while Neff added 10. Colombo led 
the Blue Streaks; who out rebounded CMU 
40-29. with 23.
emu martial art club
Learn the ultimate expression of bodily freedom
Regular Meeting times 
Mon. 9-10:30 
Wed. 7-8:30 
Thistle Hall Gym
First meeting of the semester 
Wed 1126 
7:00 p.m.
Thistle Hall Gym
Beginners Welcome
Correction
In last weeks hockey game against 
Duquesne, Tim Carlin, not Craig Janik, 
scored the first goal on a slapshot from just 
outside the circle.
Funded by activities fee
Electric Boat Division ENGMEERS 
wiU be interviewing on GO FULLSPIcampus on January28, 1983. Informative 1 ELEw T Hitslide preservations, questions and answer period to be held on the evening of January 27,1983. Refreshments wiU be served. Please contact the Placement Office for time and place.
fjA charismatic 
i-J prayer meeting 
(Jrevery Friday 
f_!night at 8 p.m. 
Sat Mellon : 
Y^lnstitute 
O Belief eld Ave.
(Across from 
S Heinz Chapel) 
M Oakland, Pa. 
^^call Rege lor 
information; 
262-3950.
Electric Boat is the world's foremost designer 
and builder of nuclear submarines  one of 
the great engineering challenges of this century.
With a $3 billion backlog and long-term contracts. 
Electric Boat offers career opportunities in nearly 
every engineering discipline (including electrical, 
mechanical, civil, etc.), top pay and benefits, 
long-range stability and an unmatched lifestyle 
on the southern New England seacoast.
US OtoensNpreqoed  EqualOppo<1un*yEmployer M&F HC .
GENERAL DYNAMICS
Electric Boat Division
The Best Shipbuilding Team in America
Gfotor, CT 06340
Haywood of PIKA picked as MVP in IM football
Quarterback Jim Haywood of PIKA was Blocking Backs Jeff McAdoo (KS) Linebackers John Chamovich (KS) check out all equipment needed for y0ur
named Most Valuable Player erf the IM Rich Conners (PIKA) Safety Mike Seel game with Greg Latsko in the IM equip.
Majors Touch Football by the managers of Wide Receivers Rich Pennline (SAE) Team Physician Vince Polidchio (SAE) mem room.

---------------------------------------------------

January 25. 1983The TartanPage 23
fusatiMFO parof 
Cngi
TOYIONF
RtSWMSXEPfr
j
kJL
W
The Most Sophisticated Training Ground For Nuclear Engineering 
Isn't On The Ground.
Its on a Navy ship.
The Navy has 
more than 1,900 
reactor-years of nuclear 
power experience 
more than anyone else 
in America. The Navy 
has the most sophisti
cated nuclear equip
ment in the world. And 
the Navy operates over half of the nuclear 
reactors in America.
With a nuclear program like that, you 
know the Navy also offers the most compre
hensive and sophisticated nuclear training.
Every officer in the Nuclear Navy 
completes a full year of graduate level 
technical training. Outside the Navy, this 
kind of program would cost you thousands. 
In the Navy, youre paid while you learn.
Then, as a nuclear-trained officer, you 
supervise highly trained personnel in the
operation of the most _______________
advanced nuclear 
propulsion plants 
ever developed. You 
get a level of technical 
and management 
experience unequalled 
anywhere else.
You get important 
responsibilities and you
NAVY OPPORTUNITY 
INFORMATION CKNTKR 
P.O. Box 5000. Clifton. NJ 0701 ">
- Please send me more information about 
becoming an officer in the Nuclear Navy.
Nairn*_______________________________________________________
Adeln'
(it vStatt
A(it*.
ar in ColU**:-
"H'ulW'He Iniversitv. 
___________?( PA.
? Major Minor. 
Phono.
get them fast. Because 
in the Navy, as your 
knowledge grows, so do 
your responsibilities.
Todays Nuclear 
Navy is one of the most 
challenging and reward
ing career choices a 
man can make. And 
that choice can pay off 
while youre still in school. Qualified 
juniors and seniors earn approximately 
$1,000 per month while they finish school.
As a nuclear-trained officer, after 4 
years with regular promotions and pay 
increases, you can be earning as much as 
$40,500. Thats on top of a full benefits pack
age that includes medical and dental care, 
and 30 days vacation earned each year.
As a nuclear-trained officer, you also 
earn a place amoi^ this nations most 
qualified and respected professionals. So,
____________if youre majoring in
math, engineering or 
the physical sciences, 
send in the coupon. 
Find out more about 
the most sophisti
cated training ground 
for nuclear engineer
ing. Todays Nuclear 
Navy. y
\N 209
(ONI
Apt
.Zip
\rc.i ('ili-li. M Jim* f.(This i* for rtnoial rccruit m< nt m!< mutt ion You <!  n*t ha\ t> fur ni"h any of th information tl < M cour-* th* mot* a*kno'v th. imiv "  *n h*lp t> rm;n< th- kinK >>' N.iWimv t t-r whivh \<*u uualilv MAO M
Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast.

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
classifiedsgeneralevents
Need help with term papers? Fact or fiction. Bib
liographies according to turabian. Books and 
magazines procured. Call the information exped
iter. M-F/9-3, 481-9338
Volunteer counselors needed for alcoho/drug 
hodine. South Hills area. Over 21 willing to 
attend training sessions. Own transportation. 
884-3035.
Will type term papers, dissertations, letters, 
resumes, manuscripts, and so forth. Reasonable 
rates. Call Shirley before 9 p.m., 521-0534.
Interested in counseling? Creative Change Asso
ciates can help you. Office located near campus. 
Initial consultation, no cost. 681-0481.
Loving professional couple seeks adoption of 
infant. Can you help us? Call after 6 p.m. Bill and 
Gloria, 856-5827.
Need $25? Be a female mud wrestler. No expe
rience necessary. CaH 241-8664 or 361-3745.
Advisors for MR adolescents and adults in com
munity settings. Full and part time positions. 
Send resume and salary requirements. EOE. 
I.C.I., 1408 Idlewood Road, Pittsburgh, PA 
15208.
Pitt Professor needs tutoring in EMACS. Write 
P.O. Box 19034, Pittsburgh, PA 15273. $4.00 per 
hour.
FREE mailed Bible correspondence course, 
home Bible study, or counseling from the Word 
of God, write: Church of Christ, P.O. Box 10542, 
Pgh., PA 15235. Phone: 795-2560.
The Academic Bag Ladies give suppon to 
women over 25 who are grad, students or retool
ing for a new career. Join us Thursday 12-1 at the 
Lutheran University Center, 4515 Forbes Ave. 
Call 682-6886 for info.
Massy Kids - need maternity clothes, childrens 
clothes and furniture? Come to Klassy Kids for 
low cost, quality merchandise. Klassy Kids Clo
thing Exchange, 5819 B Forward Ave., Squirrel 
Hill. 521-8623
ALPHA PHI OMEGA Book Exchange will be 
returning unsold books and writing checks for 
sold ones on Thursday, January 27, from 4-9 
p.m., in Room 36, Skibo basement If you want 
your books back (or your money), come see us.
Again this year the European Studies Program
will be offering a prize for the best essay in Euro
pean Studies (any subject pertaining to Europe) 
by an undergraduate. The award will be $150. 
Essays are due April 15, 1983. Further informa
tion is available from Dr. Peter N. Steams, BH 
242B, x2884.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of Humani
ties and Social Science, will hold open office 
hours for students each Tuesday, 1:30 - 3:30, BH 
260.
All unemployed work-study students should con
tact Joan Holzman, Room 209, Financial Aid 
Office, Monday through Friday, 2 to 4 p.m., to 
provide her with updated information concern
ing spring semester schedules.
Eighth Annual Poetry Contest A $1000 grand 
prize will be awarded in the Eighth Annual Poe
try Competition sponsored by World of Poetry, a 
quarterly newsletter for poets.
Poems of all styles and on any subject are eligible 
to compete for the grand prize or for 99 other cash 
or merchandise awards, totaling over $10,000. 
Says Contest Chairman, Joseph Mellon, We are 
encouraging poetic talent of every kind, and 
expect our contest to produce exciting 
discoveries.
Rules and official entry forms are available from 
the World of Poetry, 2431 Stockton Blvd., Dept, 
G, Sacramento, California, 95817.
MORTAR BOARD Word of the Week MALA
PERT: impudent, bold, saucy in speech or 
manner. The malapert drunk offended the 
young lady.
clubs
CASTING NOTICE
We are auditioning for over 200 singers, dancers, 
musicians, variety artists and technicians for The Old 
Country Busch Gardens  1983 Entertainment 
Season.
The Old Country, America's most truly 'themed" 
theme park will provide you with a paycheck and an 
opportunity to polish and display your talents before 
an audience of over two million guests. And if in
valuable exposure and experience are not enough in 
themselves, then we have more for you! Free classes 
in all forms of dance, vocal instruction and instru
mental arranging are offered as a part of Busch 
Entertainment Corporations commitment to per
sonal growth. There is also the opportunity to take 
part in choral, band, jazz and dance concerts and a 
fully staged theatrical production produced by the 
employees themselves.
So get your act together and show it to us. Then get 
ready to show it to the world.
Audition date:
PITTSBURGH, PA 
Fri., Feb. 4, 1 -5 p.m.
Duquesne University 
Music School OUSCH reqUstWa
Recital Hall ldinef,xcega.e
Accompanist, record player and cassette will be available.
An Affirmative Action Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H
Jiie
Country
Helen Gossaid, associate professor of piano at 
Camegie-Mellon University , will present a con
cert at 3 p.m., Sunday, January 30 in the Alumni 
Concert Hall, College of Fine Arts.
Gossards program will include Bachs Pre
lude and Fugue in E major from the WellTempered Clavier, Mozarts Sonata in F Major, 
and the Schumann Sonata, Opus 11.
The concert is open to the public without 
charge.
German Film Series Wednesday, February 9, at 7 
p.m. Gregg Hall (Porter Hall 100) Ende Einer 
Dienstfardt (color, English dialogue) TV play 
based on a novel by Heinrich Boll. A German 
army jeep blows up in flames. The arsonists are 
singing the All Saints Liturgy while dancing 
around the corpus delicti. A law suit is 
initiated against carpenter Johann Heinrich 
Gruhl and his son, Georg, who up to the time of 
the crime was a corporal in the army. The legal 
proceedings are turned into a satire by the defend
ants. The film is directed by Hans-Dietrich 
Schwarze and stars Wolfgang Buttner, Alois 
Marie Giani and Heinrich Huber. Free and open 
to the public, everyone welcome!
The Transcendental Meditation program
Developing the Full Potential of the Individ
ual will be the subject of several free lectures: 
every Wednesday at 1 and 8:15 p.m. in the Pitts
burgh Age Enlightenment Center, 5808 Forbes 
Ave. (in Squirrel Hill near Murray Ave.); Thurs
day, January 27, 8:15 p.m. in the Penn Hills 
Municipal Building, Council Chambers, 12245 
Frankstown Road; and Thursday, Febraury 3, 
8:15 p.m. at Camegie-Mellon University, Skibo 
Hall, Room 1L
The Hewlett Gallery at Camegie-Mellon Uni 
sity will open an exhibition of works by Adri 
Nelson and Myma Shiras in die College of p 
Arts. The show will continue through Febn ^
9. ^
The Hewlett Gallery is open to the p 
without charge. Hours are: 11 a.m. to 4 p 
Tuesday through Friday; noon to 4 p.m., 
day; and 1 to 4 p.m., Sunday.
The Pittsburgh Chamber Musk Project ^ 
present the fourth in its series of eight free c 
certs on Tuesday, January 25 at 8 p.m. at. 
Mattress Factory, 500 Sampsonia Way, N0rti 
side. The program will include Bachs Partita 
E major for Solo Violin (played on the marii^ 
Brittens Phantasy Quartet for Oboe and String 
Three Paganin Caprices for Violin, the R0| 
Duo Concertant for Violin and Viola, ancU 
Suite for Voice and Violin by Villa-Lobos, ft 
next concert will be on February 15 at the Pi| 
burgh Center for the Arts. For further infom* 
tion, call (412) 682-1746 or (412) 241-4243.
Music Department Recitals January 29, 3 pni 
Susan Vithta, oboe; January 30, 3 p.m., facu|i 
member Helen Gossard, piano; and February 1 
p.m., Ellen Ginzburg, violin. All recitals are 
the Alumni Concert Hall.
Natasha Snitkovsky and Yuko Heberlein,
and violin, will present a concert of chami] 
music at 8 p.m. tonight in Alumni Concert Ha 
College of Fine Arts.
The concert is open to the public witho 
charge.
Pittsburgh Plan for Art announces the openin
of four new exhibits on January 8. The worlti 
Emily Cheng, Kenneth Cottrell, David Hunipl 
rey, and Mary Jean Kenton will be on viewatj 
Plan until February 6, at 407 S. Craig St 
Oakland.
Women in Communications will be holding a 
rummage sale in the Highlander Room cm Wed
nesday, January 26 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
The Student Senate meets every Tuesday night at 
7:00 in the Wherrett Room. Students are invited 
to come and address the Senate during Audience 
Participation.
The Society of Physics Students will hold its next 
meeting on Thursday, January 27 at 4:30 PM in 
WeH 8325 to set its spring activities schedule. 
Interested persons are welcome to attend.
AIESEC, an international management 
exchange program, invites students of all majors 
to attend the next meeting on Wednesday, Janu
ary 26, at 4:30 PM in Skibo, room 12.1983 officers 
will be elected.
IMMIGRATION AND CITIZENSHIP
LAW
PERSONAL INJURY CLAIMS
NO CHARGE FOR INITIAL 
CONSULTATION
Call Anytime: 281-4130 or 361-7911
ROBERT A. CREO 
GARY S. STEINER 
Attorneys at Law
Appointments Available in Downtown, 
Oakland , Squirrel Hill and Morningside 
locations days, evenings and Saturdays.
THE LATEST IN ELECTRONIC GAMES/PINBALL MACHINES
Domestics
12 oz. & 16 oz. cons (& quarts) 
STROHS
LOWENBRAU It . 0k..-bottles
MICHELOB
BUDWEISER
MILLER
OLD ENGLISH 800 
SCHLITZ MALT 
IRON CITY 
ERLANGERbottles 
GENESSEE 
ROILING ROCK 
SCHMIDTS 
PABST 
SCHLITZ
PEARL (Texas)bottles 
DOUBLE DARK bottles 
BLATZ 
PIELS
OLD MILWAUKEE 
PINK CHAMPALEbottles 
COLT 45 
MILLER LITE 
MICHELOB LITE 
IRON CITY LIGHT
FEATURING 22 VARIETIES OF SUBS
Steak  Corned Beef  Tuna  TurkeySANDWICHES
Haddock  Cod  Ground Steak  Sausage 
Vecl  Chuck  Chicken PormesonSPECIALTY ITEMS
Steak Subs  Fresh Cut French Fries 
Hot Dogs with choice of 12 condiments 
Pizza served till 3 om
WF ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
Serving beer Sunday 1 pm-2 am 
Imports. Cans. Quarts. Droit Pitchers/Mugs 
Your Choice of 6 Droit Beers: 
HEINEKEN  MOLSON ALE  MICHELOB 
STROHS  MILLERS  SCHLITZ MALT
One different 16 oz 6 pk 
featured eoch week 
STROHS  ROLLING ROCK  SCHLITZ 
OLD ENGLISH 800  SCHLITZ MALT  PABST
Imports
BECK'S it Ok -Germany 
BASS ALEEnglond 
HARP LAGER-Ireland 
M01S0N GOLDEN-Conodo 
HEINfKENL* 0k  Holland 
LOWENBRAU Germony 
0 KEEFE ALE- Canada 
PILSNER URQUEU-Cmh 
KIRIN-Japan
MACKESSON STOUT - li eland
ST PAULI GIRL-Germony 
OOS EQUIS XX Mexico 
JOHN COURAGE  Englond 
WATNETS  Enolond CARLSBERG ELEPHANT Den 
CARLSBERG ROYALE-Denmark 
CARLSBERG DARK Denmark 
TSINGMO Chino 
HACKER PSCHORR-Germany 
LABATT S-Conodo 
MURPHY-Irelond
OLD VIENNA LAGER- Conodo COOPER & SON - Auslroho 
55 LAGER - Canada FOSTER S LAGER - Austroho
DOG SHOPS, INC.
Open9om-3:45om Sun-Thurs. 9am-4:45am Fri-Sat Call 621 7388 or 621 1185 3901 Forbes Ave. (Oakland) Pgh PA 15213
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A
