The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 85, Number 13, January 22, 1985.
CMU chosen for iron and steel research
5y AMY LIPKE
Tartan Staffwriter
A new Center for Iron and Steel Making 
Research will be based at Camegie-Mellons 
)epartment of Metallurgical Engineering 
nd Materials Science (MEMS).
According to Center Director Dr. Richard 
Fruehan, the National Science Foundaion (NSF) and a dozen Pittsburgh comlanies will sponsor the Centers research. 
The Center is one of several Universityndustry Cooperative Research Centers 
hich have been developed recently in other 
elds. According to Fruehan, several comanies contribute funds to a university for 
esearch in areas of interest to them. The 
ISF supplies matching funds.
Each corporation reaps the rewards of 
research worth several times what it con
tributed. As Fruehan explained, U.S. Steel 
pays about $30,000 to be a part of the 
cooperative, but gets the benefit of about 
$450,000 worth of research.
When asked about the significance of 
Pittsburgh as a choice for the site, Dr. 
Fruehan replied that while Pittsburghs steel 
production has declined, the city is still a 
major center for iron and steel research. 
MEMS has been involved in steel research 
since before World War II.
Fruehan does not expect the Center to 
have major impact upon the local economy. 
Employees of the Center will consist of CMU faculty and students from MEMS anduardian Angels squad 
nay come to CMU
|y RIC MEDROW
prtan Features Editor
A Guardian Angels squad will take 
ireliminary steps toward establishing a 
atrol of the Carnegie-Mellon campus in 
ebruary, according to Pittsburgh Guardian 
Ingels leader Paul Martinelli. The Guarnan Angels currently patrol six university 
ampuses, including a squad at the UniverI ty of Pittsburgh.
Commenting on the attempted rape in 
lie Margaret Morrison building last year,
 'artinelli said, Whenever you have one 
pe, there is a need for the Guardian 
ngels.
CMU Director of Security Robert Fadzen 
id of the prospect, I would have trouble 
l th [a Guardian Angels patrol] here. 
Fadzen said that Security has a special 
lationship with students. Its rare (CMU) 
idents are arrested.
the Chemical and Electrical Engineering 
Departments. If theres going to be an im
pact, he stated, it will be long term and 
indirect, in that research will stimulate the 
steel industry and perhaps provide jobs 
within the industry.
Long range technical needs of the industry 
and CMUs research capabilities will deter
mine a preliminary program of research.
The research will be geared toward long
term goals rather than short term operations 
problems, and will consist of six to nine pro. jects, depending on the level of support ob
tained, according to Fruehan.
Four basic levels compose the hierarchy 
of the Center for Iron and Steel Making 
Research. At the top level are the NSF, the
Fadzen added, I appreciate their concern 
but dont see a need for them at this time. 
He cited CMU liability and the superior 
training of his officers as additional reasons.
CMU Security officer Sergeant William 
Ricci is also against the Guardian Angels 
coming to the CMU campus. Ricci said, So
meone with rudimentary training can get 
themselves hurt, so I think theyd do more 
harm than good.
Many police departments across the coun
try have opposed the Guardian Angels 
patrol of city streets. In Pittsburgh, the 
police do not sanction any group who 
gathers together to fight crime, although we 
welcome the help of individuals, according 
to Pittsburgh Police superintendent Robert 
Coll.
Martinelli is of the opinion that officers 
take it as a personal threat that they are not 
continued on page 4
friting skills emphasized 
Core curriculum plans
y KAREN GRAY
lran News Editor 
j;An increased emphasis on writing skills 
highlight the changes implemented by 
i^e proposed university Core curriculum, 
pcording to Core curriculum coordinator 
jjndrew Achenbaum.
Achenbaum, who spent several evenings 
ip week talking with interested students 
Bout the effects of the proposal, considers 
I ltmg the most common base on this camI s ^ implementing a university wide curBulum. He said, The writing on this camPs is dbysmal. The only way to improve is 
tc< Practice.
^art of the practice may include more
|Uing recluirements in non-English courses,as well as greater restrictions governing 
Hlch students may exempt themselves from
For Writing, CMUs basic level ex
|sit0ry prose class
chenbaum added that a demonstration
 riting ability as part of every studentsSTcduatir^ . Jn requirement may also be eonI a said, "If you really want students
 ,,lte ^ou have to give them an incenWhen asked about the effects of a Core 
curriculum on computing requirements, 
Achenbaum replied that he would like to see 
a greater proportion of CMU students us
ing the computer as a learning tool. He cited
Colin Rafferty
a computer aided writing workshop as one 
possible application. There arc more im
aginative uses of the computer here than 
anywhere in the U. S., he said. You d be 
cheating students if you didn't show them. 
Achenbaum did, however, say that in 
conjunciion with using computers to ac
complish a greater variety of tasks, students
Dean of CIT, and an Industrial Advisory 
Board. The second level consists of a Center 
Evaluator, a Center Director (Dr. Fruehan), 
and Project Monitors from the industry. The 
third level is divided into the areas of Ironmaking, Refining, and Casting. Individual 
projects will comprise the fourth level.
The total budget for the Center is ex
pected to run $460,000 per year. Two thirds 
of that amount will be supplied by corporate 
sponsors. One third will be supplied by the 
NSF and State funding.
The expected budget breakdown is as 
follows: 22 percent for salaries and benefits, 
26 percent for graduate students, 24 percent 
for operations and equipment, and 28 per
cent for overhead.
cosmological big bang theory was the topic of Stevens Institute of 
Technology professor Jeremy Bernsteins lecture last Thursday in the Skibo 
Ballroom. __________________________________________________
should bt made more aware of the impact 
of computers on higher education and its
limits.
Achenbaum, who assumed the task of for
mulating a university Core curriculum in 
addition to his position as an associate pro
fessor of History, described his experience 
thus far as an uphill battle.
Each college has its own curriculum, 
said Achenbaum. That means we either 
have to reinvent the wheel, or fill in the 
cracks.
Ive learned more about this university 
in the past six months by asking dumb 
questions. I didnt know we didnt have a 
Computer Science major, he continued.
Achenbaum said that he plans on gain
ing support from students, faculty and ad
ministration by exchanging opinions with as 
many members of the campus community 
as possible. An official survey of student opi
nion, from which Achenbaum expects a 40 
percent return, is planned for campus wide 
distribution soon.
In This Issue:
News 
Unrestricted grant.... page 3
Briefs...........page 3
Entertainment
Hitchiker's Guide...page 12
Beverly Hills Cop..page 12
Features
Guardian Angels...page 7
Steel Industry....page 10
Sports
Men split in PAC..page 15
Tonight:
New members meeting, Skibo 12,
8:30 pm. All interested students and 
sign-ups should attend. RSVP: 
x2111. (Art staff meeting immediate
ly following.)

---------------------------------------------------

GET IT
? The 1985 Thistle 
will be on sale this week, on 
Tuesday, Wednesday and
Thursday 
January 22, 23 and 24 
in Baker Hall, 9am5pm
Dont miss it!
?Or send a check made 
out to The Thistle to 
Skibo, Room 46-A
name______________________________
address^_______________
phone___________
year of graduation_______
Funded by your Activities ^

---------------------------------------------------

January 22, 1985The TartanPage 3
Scott receives unrestricted research grant
By AMY LIPKE
Tartan Staffwriter
Carnegie-Mellon Professor Dana Stewart 
Scott received the Senior U.S. Scientist 
Award from the Alexander Von Humboldt
Foundation.
The award, an unrestricted grant for 
research of the recipients choice in the 
Federal Republic of Germany, is given to 
highly qualified U.S. scientists whose 
research has brought them international 
esteem.
Scott, professor of computer science and 
mathematical logic, hopes to use the grant 
to spend six months this year conducting
joint research projects at the Technical 
University of Munich and to serve as visiting 
lecturer at several other universities in 
Germany.
Scott, who has a number of close col
leagues in Germany, commented on the 
award, It presents the possibility of being 
able to do work with people over there, see 
them for a longer time.
While computer researchers are in close 
contact all over the world, opportunities to 
actually work together dont often occur, ac
cording to Scott.
Scotts work in computer science focuses 
on the development of denotational seman
tics of programming languages and of the
Briefs
Radioactive waste disposal agreement reached
HARRISBURG (JAN. 2) Gov. Dick Thornburgh announced that he has reached an agreement 
with the governors of Maryland, West Virginia and Delaware for creation of a four-state compact 
for the disposal of low-level radioactive waste.
The agreement was made in accordance with the federal "Low-level Radioactive Waste Policy 
of 1980," which requires ail states to either develop sites of their own for the disposal of low-level 
materials, or to join interstate compacts to create regional facilities.
Under the terms of the compact, Pennsylvania will host the initial disposal site since it pro
duces more than five times the low-level radioactive waste as the other three states combined.
Low-level radioactive wastes include such items as rags, papers, protective clothing, filters, 
gloves, and other materials involved in the production or use of such diverse products as smoke 
alarms, emergency exit signs, medical equipment, and electric power. In Pennsylvania, nearly
40,000 jobs are generated by industries, institutions, and commercial power plants that produce 
low-level radioactive wastes.
Pittsburgh area unemployment underestimated
WASHINGTONIJan. 11)  Congressman William J. Coyne today charged that the recently 
released national unemployment figures which show only a slight rise in the jobless rate dramatically 
underestimate the level of unemployment in economically distressed regions of the country.
"The Department of Labor tells us that the national unemployment rate is 7.2 percent. That 
figure does not count as unemployed the 5.6 million workers who, in December, 1984, were work
ing part time for economic reasons, nor does it include the 1.3 million so-called 'discouraged' workers 
who have given up looking for nonexistent jobs," Coyne says. "The figures released recently by 
the Full Employment Action Council reflect more accurately the depth of the jobs problem in our area."
According to the Council, a coalition of labor, religious and urban groups, the rate of unemploy
ment in the Pittsburgh metropolitan area, factoring in underemployed and discouraged workers, 
was actually 18.5 percent in October, 1984, almost twice the figure reported by the Department 
of Labor.
Former AMC exec to teach at GSIA
PITTSBURGHGerald C. Meyers, former chairman and chief executive officer of American Motors 
Corporation, has been appointed for Ford Visiting Professor for 1984-85 and the first Executive-inResidence at Carnegie-Mellon University's Graduate School of Industrial Administration (GSIA).
Meyers, a 1950 graduate of Carnegie Institute of Technology and a 1954 graduate of GSIA, will 
teach a third semester course titled, "Crisis Management and Business Leadership"
"GSIA may be the only business school concentrating on the examination and management 
of business crises*," Meyers said. "We will study a variety of recent crises and focus on early recogni
tion, management and crisis prevention. There are leadership responsibilities and unusual oppor
tunities to be found in most crisis situations"
Meyers is managing director of an investment banking firm specializing in venture capital in
vestments and is also a business consultant.
He was chairman and CEO of American Motors Corporation (AMC) from 1977-82, attaining that 
position after holding various positions within the company. He joined AMC in 1962, rising through 
the ranks, and in 1967 was elected vice president of automotive manufacturing. He was named 
group vice president-product in 1968. In 1975 Meyers was promoted to executive vice president 
and director of AMC prior to his election as president and chief operating officer in 1976.
Before joining AMC, Meyers spent eight years with Chrysler Corporation, where his last assign
ment was as director of manufacturing for international operations in Geneva, Switzerland. He began 
his business career at the Ford Motor Company in 1950.
Alpha Phi Omega
a co-ed national service fraternity
invites all interested students to a 
What is A Phi O? Party 
Thursday, January 24 at 7:00 pm 
in the Wherrett Room, Skibo
mathematical foundations of a theory of 
computability. His philosophical interests in
volve the foundations of logic, the 
philosophy of mathematics, and the seman
tical analysis of natural language.
Current projects include the use of a 
semantical approach to provide rigorous 
machine-implementable proofs and other 
developmental tools for the construction of 
correct programs.
Before coming to Carnegie-Mellon in 
1981, Scott served as Professor of 
Mathematical Logic at Oxford University in 
England. He has also taught at University 
of Chicago, University of California at 
Berkeley, Stanford University, University of
Amsterdam, and Princeton University.
Professor Scott is the recipient of many 
prestigious awards, including a Miller In
stitute Fellowship, a Sloane Research 
Fellowship, the LeRoy P. Steele Prize of the 
American Mathematical Society, and the 
A.M. Turing award of the Association for 
Computing Machinery.
The Senior U.S. Scientist Award was first 
presented in 1972 in memory of the 25th an
niversary of the Aid Program initiated by 
George Marshall following World War II, 
from which Germany benefited greatly.
Professor Scott spoke enthusiastically of 
the award program, calling it a very suc
cessful cooperation between countries.
DISCOVER INTELS TECHNOLOGY LEADERSHIP
Intel. The microelectronics leader. Responsible for such technological "firsts as 
RAM s (Random Access Memories) EPROM s (Erasable Programmable ReadOnly Memories), microprocessors, smgle-board computers, microcomputer 
development systems and million-bit bubble memories. Intel s formula for 
success combines resources, objectives, people and a company philosophy that 
inspires and rewards excellence
We know you ve worked hard to make yourself the best you can be So have we 
You deserve nothing less than the best.. We accept nothing less than the best. 
We have a lot in common... If you re looking for a chance to achieve firsts of your 
own. invest your education at Intel. . the leader in microelectronics and careers
If you are unable to meet with us. please contact Intel College Relations at the 
location of your choice:
Arizona: 5000 West Williams Field Road. Chandler, AZ 85224 
Santa Clara. California: P.O. Bo* 3747, Santa Clara. CA 95051 
Sacramento/Folsom. California. 151 Ravine Road. Folsom, CA 95630 
New Mexico: 4100 Sara Road. Rio Rancho. NM 87124 
Oregon: 5200 N.E Elam Young Parkway. Hillsboro. OR 97124.
An Equal Opportunity Employer M F H
irrte1
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
February 8,1985

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanJanuary 22, 1985
Guardian Angels at CMU
continued from page 1
doing their job.
Martinelli added, however, that the 
patrolling officers are very supportive. They 
see us out there doing a job that has to be 
wants to do to help should be appreciated 
by the police.
The Guardian Angels have already en
countered resistance in forming a patrol at 
Pitt.
Martinelli attributes part of the trouble 
to a self indulgent attitude at Pitt. He said, 
Youve got to care about other people. 
Bierce thinks the problem at Pitt goes 
much deeper. On Pitt campus they try to 
suppress the news on crime. Crime is not 
reported to the police or the public. They 
keep it quiet so there is no publicity.
The lack of news of crime at Pitt results 
in unbelievable loss, according to Bierce.
The Guardian Angels have so far not met 
with opposition from the CMU administra
tion. Associate Dean of Student Affairs Lois 
Cox said, I think any of us would want to 
talk to [the Guardian Angels] and see what 
done. We could use their back-up.
Sergeant Ed Bierce of the Pittsburgh 
Police agrees. The police need all the help 
they can get. With our resources, we are not 
in a position to do the job. Anything anyone
To design and develop today's most 
technologically advanced defense products, 
General Dynamics requires the talents of many 
highly motivated Engineering and Scientific 
graduates.
Thi^ year, nearly half of our 1,500 technical 
hires will be in Electrical/Electronic Engineering 
and Computer Science  goal-oriented, highperformance students who will graduate in the 
top half of their classes.
If you are one of these top performers, explore 
the wide range of opportunities available in the 
following technologies: Aeronautics, Advanced 
Signal Processing, Radar Systems, Embedded
Software, Lasers and Electro-optics, Composite 
Structures, VLSI, Non-linear Structural Analysis, 
Robotics and CAD/CAM.
At General Dynamics, you will work with our 
innovative professionals in applying these 
technologies toward a wide variety of aerospace, 
computer systems, electronics, shipbuilding and 
military land vehicle programs. Plus, you can stay 
current in your field and make the most of your 
career through our corporate-wide training and 
lifelong education programs.
Don't settle for less than state of the art in your 
career. See your Placement Office for a campus 
interview with General Dynamics.
The state
llCS IM ESKML UYINMIVIlUaAn Equal Opportunity Employer/U S. Citizenship Required
CAMPUS INTERVIEW DATEFebruary 7
'^1
they feel they can do for us.
Cox added that she wants to get a feeli] 
for the opinion of students through Studi 
Senate and student government preside^S 
Bill McCormick, and check with CM 
Security prior to the Guardian Angels com B 
ing to campus.
For more information about the GuardiaM 
Angels, turn to Features. cCMU libraries | offer help !;
The CMU Libraries are offering introduc.fi 
tory and advanced training courses in tlj 
use of the LS/2000 computerized catalog* 
system.
Introductory classes teach the basics 
LS/2000 searching. Advanced classes fo 
on specialized search techniques. Both i 
sions last for 45 minutes and are available 
at both the Hunt and Engineering 
Science Libraries.
Interested persons can call Hunt (x2442| 
or E&S (x2427), or go to the Reference Desj 
of either library. Pre-registration at least one sl 
day in advance of the chosen session li 
advised. H
Sessions are offered at the following timeJ'
INTRODUCTORY TRAININ(L 
SESSIONS fc
Hunt Library B1
Thursday Jan. 24: 10:30 Wednesday Feb. 6: 2:30 Thursday Feb. 21: 10:30 Wednesday Mar. 6: 2:30 Thursday Apr. 11: 10:30 Wednesday Apr. 24: 2:30
E&S Library 
Thursday Jan. 31: 3:30 Wednesday Feb. 28: 2:30 Wednesday Mar. 27: 3:30 Wednesday Apr. 18: 3:30
ADVANCED TRAINING 
SESSIONS
Hunt Library 
Wednesday Feb. 27: 2:30 Thursday Mar. 14: 10:30 Thursday Apr. 18: 10:30
E&S Library 
Wednesday Jan. 23: 2:30 Thursday Feb. 7: 2:30 Wednesday Apr. 10: 3:30
Pregnant? Call AT A
Lets talk about your options
Caring and confidential information 
counseling, pregnancy testing and 
related services.
Hotline: (412)731-2420
Pittsburgh 731-2420
Washington, PA 225-6494
Alternatives to Abortion, IncA non proit
H. Kaplan 
The SmartMOVE!
PREPARATION FOR:
GMAT'LSATGRE
MCATDAT
CALL:
661-2772
EDUCATIONAL CENTER
CORNER CNTRE * NEOLEV AVE. AT BAUM Bi-VO

---------------------------------------------------

January 22, 1985The TartanPage 5
ewis 
omplains
\gain
ntinuert from page 20
I hope everyone had a good New Years 
ve Mine was great, because I didnt atmpt to have a good time at another New 
ears Party. I had a quiet time, not forced 
n. At midnight, no matter who you are 
anding next to, you are forced to kiss them 
hen Dick Clark yells Happy New Year! This 
all well and good if youre next to a fashion 
odel. But what if youre next to what 
ight be described as a balloon, and thats 
eing polite. Then what.
I dont like to complain about the weather, 
cause I cant do anything about it, but this 
ridiculous. Eight out of the last ten days 
has snowed, steadily, all day. In New York, 
u get between five and 25 inches m one 
ot. but then its over for a month. One 
end described this as Pittsburghs version 
arctic winter. Grey, dark, snow-ridden 
ays and nights. Bundle up.
I Thats all for this time. Send your comllaints to me, c/o The Tartan, Skibo 52, or 
I all me at 578-2111. Have an annoying week, 
lut a warm one.
I Christopher D. Lewis is the Sports Editor 
If The Tartan and writes The Tartan ComIlaint Department.
No one faces cancer alone. Call us.
AMERICAN CANCER SOOETY'
Pittsburgh Dance Council 
presents the fabulous
Feld
Ballet
I JAN. 29 
8 P.M. 
HEINZ HALL
TICKETS: $5~ $22 AT HEINZ HALL BOX OFC., TICKETCHARGE (392-4900$ TIX (Oliver Plaza)PDC Spring Season Ticket*: 355-0330
6 Greek View
nay? bolan
to Tht Ihrttm 
Next Monday and Tuesday, January 28th 
the InterF'rauirillty Council is 
Onsor*ng a bleod drive for the Central 
Bank of Pittsburgh. The blood drive
111 ** held m Skibo Rooms 11 & 12 from
* to 2:45 p.m. on Monday and 
r a mi to 3:45 p.m. on Tuesday. The 
|ntral Blood Bank is down about 600 pints 
m its normal level and is in serious need
contributions.
lls blood drive is part of a competition 
een th*ee area colleges: CMU, UniverPittsburgh, and Duquesne. The winschool will receive special recognition 
^ the Blood Bank. CMU must collect apximately 23S pints of blood in order to 
' the competition.
i ^^ers of the Greek community will be 
[r the blood drive by providing
eg]ments fr all who give, and assisting 
^ , ^ Bank workers. We urge that 
/ y who can, please contribute to and 
*pori this blood drive.
Student Senate Minutes
The meeting was called to order at 7:06 pm. A break was taken for THISTLE photos.
PresentBach, Bett, Bianco, Cohen, Cramer, DeBroff, DeMelio, Denburg, Goldstein, Harrison, Hynes, Ickes, Jagerski, King. McCormick, Miller, Mukherjee, Novak, Piscitello, Salley, Simmons, SoUer, Taylor, Weller, Dean Walter.
AbsentChu, Dorsey, Nichols.
MinutesCorrected and approved.
Audience Participation John Pane requested an investigation of the registrars charge for a transcript ($4.00) necessary for job and grad school applications.
Dean Walter No report.
PresidentThanks to all who attended retreat. Senate brainstorming session 1:00 Sunday, Jan. 27. Need for central coordination for all student committeesSenate should control appointees to these committees (agreed to by Dean Walter). Spoke to Ed Lily about future retreats. Meeting Monday in the Highlander Room at 4:30 concerning student pub. Auxiliary Services meeting pending. -
SDCSDC-IFC dance Saturday, 9:001:00 in the ballroom. 
IFCDitto SDCs report.
ChairmanResignation of Suzanne Utaski leaves CFA seats open. Desired feedback on proposed increase in housing deposits (two of $100 each). Jeff Soller: This is a scam. Way for University to gain interest on our money. Lisa Salley: Unfair to ask for a deposit in February when textbooks have just been purchased. Jim Denburg: IFC opposes. Anyone desiring to move into a fraternity will lose $200. No one in favor of proposal.Dry t-shirts before you wash them to set the ink. Thanks for attending retreat.Give me your office hours. Empty those folders. 
Vice-Chair No report.Treasurer No report.RulesUpdated constitution with amendments and corrections. Organizational survey forms in Tartan. Academic AffairsUpdate on 15-312 situation: Juniors not able to get in this semester will have priority next fall. Dr. Achen- baum will be in Mudge, Morewood, and Donner seeking feedback on core curriculum.
GC&INameplates! Karen DeMelio is new Vice-Chair. Ads in Tartan will list office hours. Resignation of John Carpenter GC&I now has four members and needs more. Now four CFA seats open.FinanceAlpha Phi Omega did incredible job for Senate
elections  discussion of their expenses. Q: Why pay for old lock again? A: Couldnt find the old one and box had to be locked. Vote to allocate: passed.
Old BusinessMotion to raise from table amendment to Section 5, A.3, Election Procedure. Proposed amendment: Write-in candidates must receive at least 1% of the total enrollment from the college they intend to represent to be eligible to hold student government positions. Motion to change to at least 1% or 25 votes, whichever is greater. Motion fails. Motion to table amendment. Motion passed.
New BusinessQ: What happens to money paid for a parking space? A: Auxiliary Services has been looking into this goes to salaries, taxes. Motion to bring to floor failed amendment concerning filling of vacancies (Article 7, Section 2A). Automatically tabled until next week.
General DiscussionGive forethought to bringing to floor failed amendments  printed copies needed of proposal for worthwhile discussion. Q: IM members interested in Senate but there is only one seat. A: IM is still not large enough to need more representatives. See Cindy about items for Educational Affairs meeting. 
AnnouncementsAcademic Affairs meeting Wednesday, 7:00. Pictures taken after meeting. GC&I meeting Wednesday, 7:00. Michael needs to see all executive members.Meeting adjourned at 8:02.
The Challenge Of Advanced Technology 
Is At Martin Marietta Orlando Aerospace
There's a brave new world of exciting 
Ideas and challenging technologies, and It's 
here nowl As a college graduate, you'll 
have the opportunity to contribute to this 
exciting and changing world. At Martin 
Marietta Orlando Aerospace, our team of 
professionals has been responsible for some 
of the most important technical advances 
in the fields of aviation and electronic 
technology. Our project list includes work 
on tactical Interdiction systems, fire control 
systems, target acquisition and designation 
systems, FLIP TV and Imaging Systems, and 
countermeasure systems. We also design 
and develop minicomputers and micropro
cessors for missile control systems. Our pro
jects are state-of-the-art and challenging 
with many outstanding opportunities for 
personal growth and professional 
advancements.
OUR COMPANY REPRESENTATIVES WILL BE ON CAMPUS
TUESDAY, JANUARY 29, 1985.
ifOUR COLLEGE PLACEMENT OFFICE FCCONTACT YOURFOR DETAILS.
We are seeking individual* with 
degrees in the following areas:
Electrical Engineering (BS/MS/PhDJ 
Mechanical Engineering {BS/MS} 
Engineering Physics/Optics 
{BS/MS/PhD}
Computer Science/Engineering 
(BS/MS)
Systems Engineering (BS/MS)
Career Opportunities are available In 
these areas:
Digital/Analog Design 
ATE Design/Test 
Advanced Radar ( RF Systems 
Systems Design Re<juirements 
VLSI/LSI Design 
Software Design and Analysis 
Mechanical Design and Analysis 
Logistics/Products Support 
Electro-Optics Systems 
Guidance, Controls and 
Aerodynamics
M/l TY/V m ETTAX
In addition to the outstanding oppor
tunities to excei and advance, Martin 
Mariettas Orlando location offers 
year 'round social, cultural and 
recreational activities.
If you are unable to meet with us at 
this time, send a letter of interest or 
resume in confidence to: Martin 
Marietta Orlando Aerospace, Mr. 
Robert Pettigrew, College Relations 
Manager, P.O. Box 583?, MP #59, 
Orlando, Florida 32855. An Equal 
Opportunity Employer. U.S. Citizen
ship Required.

---------------------------------------------------

AT&TBell Laboratories
Ane
The world stands on the edge of tremen
dous change-a revolution in how people 
understand, remember and communicate 
that will forever affect the social fabric.
Bf I
w
 It takes vision to read the future-to 
forecast where technology will take the 
world.
AT&T Bell Laboratories has proved over the 
years it has a good sense of technological 
direction-thaf it can see, plan and 
design change.
The transistor, the electrical digital 
computer, the laser, the solar cell, a host 
of advances in telecommunications-all 
are inventions of Bell Laboratories 
scientists and engineers.
Now the people behind these break
throughs and the worlds best telecom
munications system are looking in new 
directions.
The reorganization of AT&T has given Bell 
Laboratories a new and broader mission.
-------
------------------------
We now have the freedom to demonstrate 
our technological strength in a wider 
variety of areas-to approach new and 
different markets-while continuing to 
develop advanced telecommunications 
systems. A full line of AT&T computers, for 
example, is just one result of our new 
focus.
AT&T Bell Laboratories will be there-as it 
has before...
With a vision that sees the way to a better 
world.
If you are a graduate with a BS, MS. or PhD 
in Electrical or Mechanical Engineering, 
omputer Science. Mathematics, 
Operations Research, Chemistry. Physics or 
Human Factors Psychology-and if you 
are interested in joining us-talk to an AT&T 
Bell Laboratories Recruiter.
We will be on campus February 4-5. 
Check with the Placement Office 
for details.
If you would prefer to write, send a copy 
of your resume and academic transcripts 
to: Director of Technical Employment, 
Dept 127/3104/85, AT&T Bell Laboratories, 
150 John F. Kennedy Parkway, Short Hills, 
New Jersey 07078.
An egual opportunity employer

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
uardian Angels aim at preventing crime
\i\ngels trained in martiai arts; 
participate in charity events
y RIC MEDROW
rton Features Editor
\Ve will not fade away, said Paul Marelli, head of the Pittsburgh Guardian 
Angels, in response to police opposition. 
The Angels have been in Pittsburgh now 
r three years, and for the last year and a 
If theyve been patrolling downtown and 
e South Side. Several months ago Marelli started a squad at Pitt, and a patrol 
to take preliminary steps in organizing at 
U in February.
ittsburgh angels arrest only 10 people
In those three years the Angels have placonly ten people under citizens arrest. Nanally, only 800 people have been arrested 
the Angels.
We are not a crime catcher or a McGruff 
e dog. We are not going to stand by and
|ther people 
Martinelli
itch a crime. But we try to prevent it, said 
tartinelli.
| The Angels have been accused of vigilanin the past. Martinelli defends the 
bgels, pointing out that no Angel has ever 
[lied a person while on patrol, and only 
Iree Angels have been killed on duty. 
[Martinelli feels, if anything, its the cops 
it act rashly. Martinelli describes one case 
| which a cop killed an Angel.
December 31, 1981, Newark, N.J.  
ink Melvin and several other Angels 
swered a call for help in a housing profct. As they were walking out of the propt, a voice yelled, Freeze! Who are you? 
tie Angels stopped, according to Marlelli. A policeman fired a shot, killing 
plvin.
lartinelli said the cop was not even 
primanded. The following year, the same
cop was arrested for grand theft.
Martinelli would move in on mugger
Martinelli said, The most lethal weapon 
I have is a whistle. Nonetheless, faced with 
a hypothetical situation in which an Angel 
squad led by Martinelli comes upon a mug
ging, the squad would move in to stop the 
crime, said Martinelli.
If a gun is pulled by the mugger? Mar
tinelli said he would instruct the rest of his 
squad to Get the hell out, and call the 
cops!
Martinelli said he would then move in on 
the mugger, trying to reason with him to give 
up th gun, while awaiting the arrival of the 
police.
The cops are trained far better
Martinelli does not pretend the Angels are 
perfectly equipped to deal with crime. The 
cops are trained far better. We dont have 
any of the psychological training they have.
Angel training lasts three months, in
cluding one month of calisthenics, one 
month of basic martial arts training, and 
two months of CPR certification training.
Martinelli is aware of the danger in which 
the Angels put themselves. He thinks much 
of the opposition to the Angels is for fear 
of us getting hurt.
A lot of kids die drunk driving"
He feels it is far better than the danger 
seme Angels were in before they joined the 
Guardian Angels. A lot of kids die drunW* 
driving or ODing on drugs. Many members 
come from slum areas.
The Guardian Angels activities do not 
stop with crime prevention. Last year the 
Angels participated in the March of Dimes 
Walk-a-thon and the Pittsburgh Action 
Against Rape Walk-a-thon.
Youve got to care about other people, 
said Martinelli.
Last Halloween, the Angels escorted 75
kids through the Hill District. Upon retur
ning to headquarters, they checked the can
dy, finding a sharpened soda top in an ap
ple and several lolly pops rolled in a powdery 
substance.
omputer spyingackers also cause trouble outside CMU community
By BRETT MOLOTSKY
Tartan Staffwriter
Hackers  those conniving computer 
whizzes who know more about their com
puters than the companies who make them 
 are causing problems in epic proportions 
around the United States and, on a more im
mediate note, right here at CMU.
Weve all read the horror stories tucked 
neatly away in the bowels of the financial 
page about how some clever twelve-year-old 
broke into a major corporations computer 
system and caused it to crash, closing the 
company for the day.
Or, in a situation that has actually occur
red, a high school sophomore is arrested by 
Minneapolis police about a year ago for 
breaking into a banks computer system.
The problem is large and complex, hav
ing to deal with copyright infringements to 
invasions of privacy aH the way up to federal 
crimes such as credit card fraud. Right here 
on our campus there is a person running a 
program that will simulate the login pro
cedure for the universitys mainframe in 
order to steal passwords from unsuspecting 
users.
$53 billion lost
The problem is not a new one: in 1980 
alone there were over $53 billion lost by 
computer crime by corporations and
videotex services. The problem, however, is 
hard to solve because the hackers re so 
adept at what they do that it is difficult to 
find them.
In general, there are two types of com
puter crimes, both of which are running 
rampant. First, there is the pirate. He is 
the person who copies software illegally and 
distributes it himself without permission 
from the publishing company. A software 
pirate is comparable to someone who would 
photocopy a bestselling novel and then sell 
the copies he made. In the same respect, 
software piracy is treated as copyright infr
ingement, since the software programs are 
protected by the United States copyright 
laws.
Unauthorized access'* illegal in 27 states
However, die more pressing problem for 
us as students here and for the country in 
general is the idea of the hack himself, or 
the computer user who steals money or gains 
unauthorized access to computer files or 
systems. Unauthorized access" is the legal 
phrase for hacking, and currently 27 states 
have implemented laws against it.
Originally, the attitude toward hackers 
was a sympathetic one: people thought it 
was neat that a young kid could bring the 
First Federal to its knees. Until it was realiz
ed that millions of dollars were being stolen 
continued on page 11

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanJanuary 22, 1985
"... a diverse, energetic group, of students
//
Survey examines off-campus views of CMU
By HELENE NEWBURG
Tartan Staffwriter
The other day a Case Western Reserve 
University admissions counselor wanted to 
know why I had chosen Carnegie-Mellon in 
Pittsburgh over Case Western in Cleveland. 
David Leary said the two cities were very 
similar: location in the cities and strong 
academics. He also said . .Camegie-Mellon 
is our main competitor for admissions. .,We 
lose most of our prospective students to 
CMU. .
Impressions taken from media
What have we got that they havent? High 
national rankings for all departments, and 
of course, computers. Isnt that the school
that requires each student to buy a com
puter? asked a representative of Harvard. 
And we have the Professional Choice. We 
know all that, but the outside world gets 
limited information about our world here at 
school, from TV, newspapers, and what 
students bring out with them. . .
As I write, TV cameras from a local chan
nel pan across my face and typing fingers, 
informing the public of the DoD and soft
ware research going on here. I have been im
mortalized in a video file as a CMU com
puter junkie. Isnt that the school with all 
the hackers?
Also, having the better part of the Hill 
Street Blues cast advertised as CMU 
graduates stick in peoples minds, giving us
URINARY TRACT INFECTIONS?
Do you experience urinary frequency or 
urgency/ pain on urination/ blood in urine? 
Biodecision Laboratories is conducting an 
outpatient clinical study comparing a 
commonly used oral antibacterial medication 
to a new oral antibacterial produced by a 
major pharmaceutical manufacturer.
We are looking for women and men with 
urinary tract infections interested in 
participating in this project. You will 
receive/ free of charge/ a physical exam/ 
lab tests, 3 follow-up visits/ and 1 of 2 
antibacterials to treat your infection.
All care is provided by trained medical 
staff. Reimbursement for all travel expenses 
is available. If interested/ call 363-3300 
for information.
biodecision
laboratories
DIANE R. GREENBLATT
DIRECTOR OF PATIENT STUDIES
5900 PENN MALL WEST PITTSBURGH, PA 15206(412) 363 330
a reputation for a fantastic drama 
department.
Camegie-Mellon is more than just a man 
and a fruit stuck together by a hyphen... I 
had as much trouble convincing people of 
that as I had convincing people I knew what 
I was doing coming here for a major out
side science or technology.
Studies are rigorous
Elisabeth Anderson, a guidance counselor 
from a Cincinnati high school, says she 
directs self-motivated, sharp individuals 
towards CMU. The student must have a 
pretty good idea of where he or she wants
to go in life for me to send him/her to CMU 
The studies are rigorous, but the training f0r 
jobs/further education available there is in. 
credible.
Mike Boyle, a guidance counselor fron) 
Fox Chapel high school said he only directs 
students here who he feels are prepared 
do the work demanded. When I think of 
CMU, I think of research, a strong facult 
and a diverse, energetic group of students 
AH programs are high quality. .Son 
departments get more publicity than others 
but no CMU student hides in a basket 
weaving major.
photo by Mike Pilews"
Baker Hall, a building designed as a factory, has flair at some angles.
CAPRI PIZZA
Whtn You're Onto 
A Good Thing, 
Stick With Hi!
Where Today
Tomorrow
AND EVEPy DAYyou Get The Best Pizza In Oakland At The Best Price!
oooaxxxxx)OooooQc)ooojoo(xx30ooooooooooooo(XxxDOOOO
*Also For Your Night Life Pleasure*8 rCEBES STLDl j
0 *A VIDEO CISCO* , 0.
o Open Tuesday - Sunday 9 p.m. to 2 am. 
oooaxioooooaioooooofwa^^3415 rCUBES AV.|)6H. PA, 19213 ; PtiCNC 81-2202
10 Off PWA including
' 2.9
^ _ *AT-IN vriHVEREQH*
V. ,

---------------------------------------------------

January 22, 1985The TartanPage 9
Ritter's Diner
Ritter's serves inexpensive, homcooked breakfast
I
The waitresses are very attentive, forever 
trying to fill your cup with a rich, slightly 
mocha flavored coffee. The coffee is so good 
and the waitresses so persistent, that I usual
ly walk out having drunk four or five cups. 
The acid bite most coffee has is non-existent, 
so you can walk out without the heartburn 
good, homemade coffee can give you if you 
drink too much.
The juices are not exceptional. They taste 
like they are made from concentrate, a 
disappointment to a former Floridian whose 
grandmother likes to squeeze her oranges 
daily.
Crispy bacon fried on grill
But most of the meals compare even to 
my grandmother. The sausage is a little 
greasy, but the bacon is fried on a grill, not 
in a microwave oven. Microwave ovens may 
be more convenient for a restaurant, but 
they turn bacoir, among other things, to 
rubber.
The house specialty, according to one 
waitress, is the home fries. Ive had them 
three times now, and each time theyve come 
out crispy on the outside, moist on the in
side. Most places have switched to those 
frozen, shredded potatoes to make their
actly, but it must have been invented with 
pancakes in mind. They are always cooked 
all the way through, one thing my grand
mother sometimes neglects to do. And the 
flavor of the buckwheat is incredible. The 
closest measure of the difference between 
Ritters buckwheat cakes and other pancakes 
is a comparison between homemade bread 
and Wonder Bread. Most pancakes have lit
tle flavor or texture  both are too soft. Rit
ters buckwheats, on the other hand, are 
hearty in taste and texture.
The muffins arent as large or as good as 
my grandmother makes, but they are an 
adequate next-best-thing. About the size of 
an average cupcake, they are always warm 
all the way to the center. The blueberry muf
fins are short on blueberries, but the com 
muffins taste like they are made with real 
com meal, not just yellow flour.
Ill be home for spring break, grandmom, 
but in the interim Ritters will have to do.
Ritters Diner is open for breakfast 24 
hours a day. It is located at 5221 Baum 
Boulevard. Reservations are not available, 
and lines can be encountered on weekends.
High Capacity Printer Shelf-Holds 50 pounds 
Paper Shelf-Holds 250 sheets
Monitor Raised to Convenient Viewing Height 
System and Monitor Shelf-Holds 70 pounds
>--------Convenient Keyboard Storage Area
FIND THE TOP OF YOUR DESK... 
ORDER A DESKSAVER HI TODAY!
Tired of sacrificing even square inch of your desktop to your personal computer'1 If. you long to have a desk again, but dont have the space or money for another one, the revolutionary DeskSaver III is for you. DeskSaver 111 allows you to stack within easy reach, your keyboard, system, monitor, printer, and papa supply, in less than half the space these components take when spread out on your desk.  -
Made of durable chrome plated steel, DeskSaver 111' snaps together in less than 5 minutes without tools or fasteners. Yet, for all its practicality, DeskSaver III1'' s chrome plated finish and sleek, elegant styling make it an attractive addition to home or office.
For the IBM PC, PC/XT, TI Professional, DEC Rainbow, and other fine personal 
computers.
available for Macintoah (MacRack), 16WW X 15D. Just $79.00!! Now available in BLACK!!
Please Send Me My DeskSaver IIT Today!
Enclosed is a check for $89 00 (includes shipping and handling), payable to L & R Associates. I understand I may return my DeskSaver HI1'* within 30 days if I am not 
completely satisfied.
Name:___
Number:.
City:_____
Street:.
State:
MAIL TO: L & R Associates P.O. Box 390412 Mountain View, CA 94039
TI Ki trademark of Tex*. InMrumcniv Inc I "ternarie of[*ul Kqu.pmcm i;l>rp
Printer S Hx I.V I)x21 Kcvbtwrd: 5" H x I*"' Oxil VI
ORGANIZATIONAL 
SURVEYS NOW DUE
FoormoeAmM FCC xCcta hrGASmeIrD tO VocDrmo VrmEor
If you do not file your Organizational 
Survey Form with the Rules Commit
tee by Friday, February 15,1985, then 
you will lose your recognition. Funded 
ciubs will lose all Senate funding and all 
organizations will lose their meeting 
privileges on campus. If you have any 
questions call Larry Bach at 247-7375 or 
Jeff Soller at 661-0894.
Forms are available at the Skibo Information Desk.
VocDrmo VrmEorR
Working together, 
we get things done.
By Ric MEDROW
Tartan Features Editor
Ritters Diner may not be Pittsburghs 
answer to a continental breakfast, but when 
I start yearning for a homecooked meal 
about this time of the semester, 
its the next best thing to my 
grandmother. And with the most
diners is the plaques on the wall that say 
Pittsburgh Magazine thinks Ritters has had 
the best breakfast in Pittsburgh since 1981. 
If youre smart, youll ask to be seated in the 
Skylight Room, a room mirrored and 
wallpapered to look like a country club din
ing room. Its also a little quieter than the 
rest of the place.
Waitresses very attentive
home fries. Ritters uses big chunks of real 
potato and lots of fresh onion. Again, they 
are cooked crisp on a grill, instead of the wet 
mess that comes out of a microwave oven.
My favorite, however, is the buckwheat 
cakes, I dont know what buckwheat is, exexpensive entree (the ham omelette) only 
$2.65, my girlfriend, Leslie, doesnt have to 
pay.
When you walk in, you find yourself in 
a diner  stools in front of a bar, 15 or 20 
booths, and the sound of dish against dish 
emanating from the kitchen. The only thing 
that seems to set Ritters apart from other

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanJanuary 22, 1985
Fischer refutes common view
Technology pays off in reduction of labor
By KATHY MURTAUGH
Tartan Staffwriter
In the, past decade, much has happened 
to th American steel industry which seems 
to have tarnished the shine of a once invincible leader in steel.
Steel
A decline in margin profits and lack of 
consumer capacity stagnated the growth of 
steel and caused the termination of many 
facilities. In 1979, U.S. Steel Corporation 
decided to close fifteen of its facilities, claim
ing they were no longer competitive.
Bethlehem Steel Corporation ceased opera
tions in major portions of plants at 
Johnstown, Pa. and Lackawanna, N.Y. in 
1977.
This is the era of advance?
Ben Fischer, Director of the Center for 
Labor Studies at CMU, disagrees with these 
gripes of poor management and points to 
modem technology, along with a reduced 
capacity for steel, as responsible for the 
decline. He states, The industry has been 
going up and down for at least 25 years, and 
employment will steadily continue to go 
down. This is the era of advance. Technology 
will pay off in the reduction of labor as it 
will in all manufacturing corporations.
Although he agrees environmental laws 
sucked dollars from modernization, Fischer 
believes the decline of the industry is whol
ly attributable to our free enterprise 
economy, which is the exception in relation 
to foreign economies. The st^t-controlled 
economies are going to prove less com
petitive than the rest of the world, he adds. 
Foreign countries with government-owned 
industries send cheaper steel to the United 
States as they produce excess steel. The 
American industry hasnt even the capacity 
to consume its own product and is powerless
against this influx of cheaper steel.
Capital investment no longer justified
  ') .w.- if.'rrunn: ^The additional capital investment need
ed to modernize and provide pollution con
trols to these facilities could no longer be 
justified, explained then Chairman Lewis 
W. Foy.
Experts agree that nowhere in industry is 
continued on page 11
JL IT
Sperry in Reston, Virginia is looking for creative thinkers.
In the Systems Management Group at Sperry-Reston, we con
centrate on the areas of Flight Simulation, Strategic Systems, Ship Systems and Electronic Warfare.
Students in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science are encouraged to consider a career with an innovative industry leader - Sperry-Reston.
We will be conducting interviews on campus on January 
Check with the placement office for more information.
-----Ilrt^r
// NEW WAY
OF LIVING
TEACHING SERIES
STARTING JANUARY 25, 1985 
AT MELLON INSTITUTE 
IN OAKLAND
TO REGISTER 
CALL
BOB TEDESCO 
264-0236
if
Custom Designed Hairstyles
that only look expensive I
on a
- mT ~l
SAVE S2.00 I
I
I 
I 
I 
I 
I
PRECISIONHAIRCUT
Complete with shampoo & styling 
Regularly
I
Offer expires
JfiH M tUS' \2/GftOTcwccnmms <
, ej:oapo
Our professional stylists know that to custom cut your hair the way you want, they 
must listen to what you want. That's why at Great Expectations you'll leav^ with the style >ou had in mind, at a price you can afford. SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
WASH. CUT AND 
BLOW DRY$13.00
/ANY LENGTH)
COLORPERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES$25.00
wGftcinwecmions
No
Appointment
SPOMSORED BY 
UNIVERSITY CHRISTIAN OUTREACH
PRECISION HARCUTTERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
Mon.. Tu__Wed. 10-7 687-3500
Thurs.. Frl. 10-9 No Appointments
Sat 9-6UNISEX HAIR SALON.4.

---------------------------------------------------

January 22, 1985The TartanPage 11
Unemployment laws work against steel industry
continued from page 7
there such a glaring failure to modernize 
than in steel. But steel executives blame lack 
of modernization on:
 Unrealistic environmental laws that 
draw funds from modernization.
 Synthetically low prices for steel.
continued from page 10
by these kids, they were merely slapped on 
the wrist. Now theyre facing criminal 
prosecution.
The problem has made true hackers very 
upset. They claim theres nothing wrong in 
what they do, as long as theres no theft or 
damage done. Recently, a writer for one of 
the major computing magazines wrote an 
article that railed against hackers for what 
they were doing and made some harsh 
judgements about them.
Offended parties retaliate
The offended parties decided that they 
would retaliate as best they knew how, and 
broke into the bank which housed the 
writers credit card accounts to steal his card 
numbers. They then placed these numbers 
on national electronic bulletin boards from 
which hackers receive information, along 
with a message that read something to the 
effect of these numbers belong to the guy 
who wrote the article, use them at will.
Usually, however, it is not the superior skill 
of the hacker that allows him to break in. 
Often the unconscientious user leaves his 
password taped to his terminal in the office 
or security systems are shabby. In that 
respect, the knowledge the hackers have can 
be beneficial to the computer industry. By 
working with companies, security systems
 Subsidized foreign imports.
 Inability to recover investment costs 
through depreciation.
Business experts tend to blame poor 
management and accounting methods, 
however, claiming steel chiefs failed to keep 
their eyes on market locations and
can be make more effective and hack-proof 
in the future.
Hacker helps police
There are other beneficial uses for com
puter skill, namely in police work. 
Remember that kid who was arrested in 
Minneapolis for breaking into a banks com
puter system? Well, earlier this week he 
helped Minneapolis police break a code on 
some disks that the police believed contain
ed evidence of child abuse. Police tried to 
break the code, but were completely 
stumped. They called in the high schooler, 
and he broke into them in 45 minutes.
While hackers do steal credit card 
numbers and do make bogus withdrawals 
from banks, it is necessary to take one step 
back, and understand how to use the skills 
these people have in a beneficial way. In the 
specific case of our own password usurper, 
we all know that we need to be a lot more 
careful about sitting down at a terminal and 
logging in.
Weve become aware of a potential pro
blem, and are taking steps to solve it. There 
is a useful spot in society for hackers and 
hacking, but it must be understood that 
computer time and information stored in 
computers are property, and the taking of 
that property through unauthorized access 
is simply a crime.
capacities.
According to Fischer, the problem in Pitt
sburgh is a common bad attitude of workers 
as projected by a handful of spokespeople. 
The president of one declining union gets 
more exposure to American people than 
does the president of the American steel in
dustry, Fischer asserts. No matter what hap
pens in this community, however, the steel 
industry will never again be a major source 
of employment.
Whats ahead is a smaller industry with 
an even greater emphasis on technology, 
which isnt as bad as people make it sound, 
said Fischer. As for Pittsburgh  a city of 
steel memories  perhaps it will see a new 
era where software research offers new pride.
Its a no win situation for the industry, ac
cording to Fischer, and it is evident the steel
industry is never going to be the dominant 
force it once was. Even the unemployment 
laws work against us. For example, when 
unemployment is down in the United States, 
employers are penalized. But in Japan, for 
instance, employers are subsidized when 
employment is down, states Mr. Fischer.
Ironically, U.S. industry has been one of 
the leaders in steel research and technology. 
Japan, even more ironically, uses one of the 
cheap processes developed by the U.S.  
continuous slab castingto make 50% of its 
steel. Now, domestic research and develop
ment in steelmaking is dwindling. CMU, 
along with other major universities, is get
ting involved with steel research. However, 
efforts, in general, are dwindling due to lack 
of profit.
Today in Skibo Ballroom
IBM Recruiting
open to entire campus
 Information & Interview Sign-Up Day
Tues., Jan. 22nd, 10-5, Skibo Ballroom
Bring three copies of your resume
 IBM Interviews
Wed., Jan. 23rd & Thurs., Jan. 24th
Sponsored by the Society of Women Engineers
The Many Functions of 
The Affordable Futon
Free Delivery on Saturdays thru Feb. 2 with 
this ad. 20% off platform frames with pur
chase of Futon.
s
in
.0
Freeport $299* 
Nassau $309*
212 355-4705
Your Bahamas College Week Includes:
 Round-trip air transportation from your home city to Bahamas  7 Nights accommodation in 
Freeport (Freeport Inncasual club like hotel located downtown, next to El Casino and opposite to 
International Bazaar) or Nassau (Dolphin or Atlantis Hotelideally located across the street from the 
beach within walking distance to everything). Price based on quad occupancy. Triple add $50.00 
Double add $ 100.00  Roundtrip airport/hotel transfers  Hotel room tax  Gratuities for bellman, 
chamermaids and poolman  College Week activitiessports, parties, music, fun.
Hotel Options
NassauAdd $50.00 for deluxe Sheraton British Colonial, add $60.00 for deluxe Pilot House Hotel 
FreeportAdd $50.00 for first class Windward Palms Hotel.
BrouwerConvertibleFrame
Brouwer Bed RollLU
Do
CO
Futon
DNI 
(S) s &
Qi
Qi 01 
EOsHiIIS*
The Linen Closet
Corner of Walnut and Maryland, Shadyside 
M-T-Th-F-Sa 11-6, Wed 11-9 362-8045
FftijS*INTERCOLLEGIATE HOLIDAYS INC.
501 Madison Avenue New York, NY 10022
212-355-4705/800-223-0694 (reservations only)
Bahamas College Weeks? Jan 5-Jan 12? Jan 12-Jan 19? Jan 19-Jan 26? Feb 23-Mar 02? Mar 02-Mar 09? Mar 09-Mar 16? Mar 16-Mar 23 
? NASSAU
(Sat. departures)
Check One:
? FREEPORT 
(Sat. departures)
Sounds good. Ive checked the week I want to party and enclosed a $ 100 deposit.
? Mar 23-Mar 30? Mar 30-Apr 6? Apr 6-Apr 13? Apr 13-Apr 20? Apr 20-Apr 27? Apr 27-May 04 
Occupancy
? Quad ?
? May 04-May 11? May 11 -May 18? May 18-May 25? May 25-June 01? June 01-June 08? June 08-June 15? June 15-June 22
TripleDouble
NAMESCHOOL
ROOMMATES
ADDRESSDEPARTURE CITY
CITYSTATE
* All prices plus 15% tax and services.
Price based on departures from
New York (for Washington. D.C./Baltimore
& Boston add $40).
Each traveler must fill out separate form. 
Prices will rise $25 on January 1Book Now.
Hackers also beneficial
ZIP PH NO
Campus Rep/Office

---------------------------------------------------

WRCT Program Guide for Spring 1985
SUNDAY
MONDAY
TUESDAY
WEDNESDAY
THURSDAY
FRIDAY
SATURDAY
midnight-3aro 3am-6am 6am-9am 9am-noon noon-3pm 3pm-4:30pm 4:3Opm-6 pm 6pm-9pm 9pm-m1dnight midnight-3am 3am-6am 6am-9am 8am-noon noon-3pm 3pm-6pm 6pm-9pm 9pm-midnight midnight-3am 3am-6am 6am-9am 9am-noon noon-3pm 3pm-4:30pm 4:30pm-6pm 6pm-9pm 9pm-midnight midnight-3am 3am-6am 6am-9am 9am-noon noon-1pm 1pm-3pm 3pm-5pm 5pm-6pm 6pm-9pm 9pm-midnight midnight-3am 3am-6am 6am-9am 9am-noon noon-3pm 3pm-6pm 6pm-9pm 9pm-10:30pm 10:30pm-mid midnight-3am 3am-6am 6am-9am 9am-noon noon-3pm 3pm-6pm 6pm-9pm 9pm-midnight midnight-3am 3am-6am 6am-9am 9am-noon noon-3pm 3pm-6pm 6pm-9pm 9pm-midnight
Travers
Cosmic Flap Jacks w/BFP The Rhythm of the Beat w/Les undef i nedIllicit Affairs w/Rick The Cat's Meow w/The Cat Random Truck w/Tony Cowboy Bob's Radio Classics The Social Register w/Taylor Dynamic Vegetation w/Norman Music for Gurus & Spies w/Mr. Nobody undefinedSunrise in the Rearview MirrorChatting over Coffee w/Mort & JaneElectronic Mysteries w/Rick BrandtA Cool Dry Place w/RobRoom with a View w/Mark JasonMadame Pompadour's BustleMorphic Resonance w/Chris KoenigsbergGreen Eggs and Ham w/Sam I AmA Novel Concept w/Phil PhictionSanitized for your Protection w/Mr. CleanMad Mixin' w/the InspectorSkolem Functions w/Jon DoeArbitrary Choices w/DonModern Angst w/NorbertUnsightly and SereneBest Thing Since Whipped CreamThe Talk Normal ShowThe Trip w/SpectreValley of the Cabbage Patch DollsThe Party Never Stops w/Russell PostIs There Anybody Out There? w/Phi 1Baby Snakes w/Chuck FarleyFEEDBACK - A weekly talk show presentationHeimlich Manuever w/J.P.Industrial Park w/Dr. Entropy Juneundef i ned Asexually Real Time Neurot i ca Beer i n Pengu i n
Speaking w/Mike Usually w/Sean Brady w/Jeff Stafford Your Ear w/Bi11 Dust w/HALHell Hath No Mercy Bop n Blues w/Willy V.Dead Set w/JimThings that go Bump in the Night 2nd City Alternative Jazz Spaced Out Sarah?Through the Looking Glass w/Joel leSodom & GomorahSex Without Touching w/WayneIt's Time to Make the Do-NutsGuts & Passion w/Bambiundef inedRomantic Pagans for Matriarchy Music Incognito w/Rich The Act of Being Polite w/Ray More Asexual Speaking w/Mike Usually The Party Never Stops w/Russel Post Nuclear Winter w/Fetko
Space, Electronic, Ambient Jazz, R&B, Funk
New Wave, Dance, Blues, Jazz, Etc. Rock, Psych, Jazz, Space Early Rock, Jazz, Blues Classical, Experimental Rock, Oldies, Jazz, Reggae, Funk Hard Core, Psych, Experimental New Age Music
New Music, Ska, FunkRock, Oldies, Comedy, ReggaeRock, Electronic, Oldies, JazzModern, Dance, ReggaeEclectic Modern MusicPsych, Industrial, Dance, OldiesAvant Garde, Jazz, ElectronicDance, Electronic, Jazz, RockJazz, Blues, R&B, RockJazz, InstrumentalsFunk, Dance, JazzJust about anything...Rock, Space, Jazz, Oldies, Comedy Hardcore, Reggae, Funk, Classical New Wave, Experimental, Industrial Garage, Jazz, Rockabilly, Big Band Avant Garde, Hardcore, Classical Psych, Blues, Jazz, Fusion Rock, New Wave, Psych Hardcore, Jazz, Space, Punk Space, Humor, Folk, Jazz, Mellow Frank Zappa... of the WRCT Public Affairs Department Hardcore, Punk, Doom, Industrial Industrial, Drone, Experimental Predominantly Reggae
Modern Rock, New Wave, DanceOld Rock, Country, ClassicalNew Wave, Rock, R&B, Jazz, FusionRock, Blues, Jazz, EthnicIndustrial, Space, Modern, HardcoreHeavy Metal, Hard RockBluesThe Dead, Jazz, Motown, Blues Experimental, Jazz. New Music Jazz, Classical, Fusion
Jazz, Rock, Folk, Classical Industrial, Ska, Psych, Punk Punk, Industrial, Comedy, Space Neopsychedelica, European Rock, etc Psych, Punk, Experimental
Reggae, Folk, Blues, Punk Funk, Jazz, Reggae, Rap, R&B Anything.Modern Rock, New Wave, Dance Hardcore, Jazz, Space, Punk Silly Sounds and Strange Noises
All programming subject to change without prior notice. WRCT is funded by CMU's Address all comments on this Program Guide to Bdale Garbee, AG0B@TE Last Edit: WRCT, 5020 Forbes Ave, Pittsburgh PA 15213 Request
Student Activities Fee. 850118 Lines: 621-WRCT
look for revised copy in a future issue of The Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
Fourth Hitchhiker's book is a winner
By CURT WOHLEBER
Tartan Staffwriter
In case you didnt know, Earth was 
demolished by the alien Vogons several years 
ago to make way for a hyperspatial bypass. 
But now, in So Long, and Thanks for All 
the Fish (Harmony Books, $12.95), Earth is 
inexplicably back, and so are Arthur Dent, 
Ford Prefect and yes, even Marvin the - 
Paranoid Android in Douglas Adams fourth 
installment of the Hitchhikers trilogy.
The Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy 
was an immensely popular BBC radio pro
gram of the late seventies, chronicling the 
strange and hilarious exploits of Earthman 
Arthur Dent as he encountered neurotic 
elevators, superintelligent mice, two-headed 
hippies and apocalyptic restaurants in his 
reluctant search for the secret of Life, the 
Universe, and Everything. Coming in the 
wake of Star Wars and its numerous 
followers, Hitchhikers was a barbed 
parody of science fiction conventions, mixing spaceships, ray guns and repuslsive aliens 
with uniquely British, Monty Python-style 
humor. The programs huge popularity has 
resulted in a stage production, a television 
series, a feature film (currently in preproduction under Ghostbusters director 
Ivan Reitman) and a series of best selling 
novels.
In the first book, mild-mannered Arthur 
Dent is told by his friend Ford Prefect (who 
is actually a galactic hitchhiker from 
Betelgeuse) that Earth is about to be 
destroyed by the Vogon Constructor Fleet. 
Fortunately, Ford manages to flag a 
spaceship with his electronic thumb and he 
and Arthur narrowly escape the end of the
photo by Mike Pilewski
So Long and Thanks For All the Fish, the new smash by Hitchhikers author Douglas Adams, 
tells what really happened the day the Earth was demolished.
world and embark on a series of infinitely 
improbable adventures in time and space.
So Long, and Thanks for All the Fish 
brings Arthur Dent to his mysteriouslyreborn home planet after eight years of 
cosmic travel. Arthur wants only to forget 
about the previous eight years and begin liv
ing a normal life again. But things on Earth 
are not normal. For one thing, there are no 
dolphins on the new Earth; it seems that 
several years earlier all the dolphins had 
vanished, leaving as their only legacy the gift
Murphy delivers as 
Beverly Hills Cop
Wdie Murphy shows his diverse talents in Beverly Hills Cop.
photo by Mike Pilewski
KRISTOPHER KOHUTH
Tartan Staffwriter
I During this wasteland movie season fillpd with trashed talent (Johnny Dangerous
ly- Protocol), unnecessary sequals (2010), 
3 mega-pretentious crap (Dune), Bever
ly Hills Cop, starring Eddie Murphy, 
[eatures two hours of solid entertainment.
Murphy plays Detroit Police officer Axel 
[0W, a yung cop whose talent is second on
to his heroic ambition. Foley is visited by 
childhood buddy living in Beverly Hills, 
|n who shortly falls victim to a ganglandb eXecut*on- Foley takes a leave oi 
I scence and travels to Beverly Hills with 
I P^s of bringing to justice those responsiI shf ^eat^ friend. He finds his
ind 3 *anc* designer clothesI ^ e avant garde. The resulting clash bet|MurphyS unPhshed professionalism
lest 1 31 by-the book quiche of the coast supplies much of the humor forI Ax^ f ^ film'l>ctXeVS a'ded by two naive Beverly Hills 
1 ctives, portrayed by John Ashton and
to a select tew (Arthur included) of a strange 
crystal bowl etched with the message,So 
Long, and Thanks for All the Fish. Then 
Arthur meets Fenchurch, a young women 
who, at the time of the dolphins disap
pearance, was endowed with Gods last 
message to His creation. She no longer has 
the message, however, for it was lost in the 
trauma of a mental breakdown (in which she 
harbored the delusion that the Earth had 
been destroyed by aliens to make way for a 
hyperspatial bypass).
None of this would be enough to distract 
Arthur from returning to his ordinary 
bachelor lifestyle were it not for the fact that 
he falls madly in love with Fenchurch. Their 
romance takes off (literally, for Arthur learn
ed how to fly in the last book). In their most
ly Earthbound search for the fate of the 
dolphins and Gods Final Message, Arthur 
and Fenchurch encounter a menagerie of 
characters rivalling the denizens of the 
frogstar and Kakrofoon Kappa for weirdness. 
Among them are a grumbling cab driver 
who is an unwitting Rain God  the
recipient of continual precipitation from the 
loving and worshipful clouds; and Wonko, 
a California mystic who has built an insideout house, thus enclosing the universe, which 
he considers an insane asylum.
Arthur and Fenchurch are eventually 
joined in their search by planet-hopping 
Ford Prefect. Their quest brings them to the 
Quentulus Quazgar Mountains, located in 
a far-flung comer of the universe, where 
Gods Final Message is written in letters of 
fire thirty feet high, the message is typically 
glib, but eerily appropriate as well.
The Hitchhikers brand of humor con
sists mostly of light-hearted parody, though 
in this and the other books Adams makes an 
occasional good-natured satirical stab at 
modem life. When a giant spacechip lands 
in Britain, Ford Prefect distracts the gatherd 
crowd by tossing out free Sony Walkmans. 
When the Rain God is discovered, an elitist 
scientist insists on confusing the public by 
labeling the cab driver a Spontaneous 
Para-Casual Meteorological Phenomenon (if 
we just let you go around calling him a 
Rain God, then that suggests that you know 
something we dont, and Im afraid we 
couldnt have that).
Though not as funny as the first two 
books, Hitchhikers Guide and The 
Restaurant at the End of the Universe, So 
Long is free of the too-frantic pace and pat
chwork plot that hindered the third book, 
Life, the Universe, and Everything. Arthur 
Dent is more of a flesh-and-blood human 
being than a cosmic straight man this time 
out, and Adams is still a master of deadpan 
prose (The Fuolomis Fire Dragons were 
revered throughout the lands of Brequinda 
in the Foth of Avalars for their savage beau
ty, their noble ways, and their habit of biting 
people who didnt revere them.) Despite the 
adieu in the title, I hope we havent seen the 
last of Arthur Dent and all the rest. The 
galaxy wouldnt be the same without them. 
  
Did you know...
. . . that Slim Whitmans TV 
Greatest Hits album sold over 
1.5 million copies?
Digital Deli serves 
humor with computers
Judge Reinhold (nice guy Brad of Fast 
Times at Ridgemont High). As a result of 
outsider Foleys crime stopping exploits, they 
are constandy getting into trouble with their 
chief (Ronny Cox). The pair perfectly com
pliment Murphys street wise charisma and 
comedic talents.
Beverly Hills Cop is by far Murphys best 
film thus far in his career; a fact obviously 
reflected in its record breaking box office 
performance. Although Axel Foley s 
character wont win Murphy any awards (he 
is the typical Eddie Murphy), it allows him 
to display more talent than have any of his 
previous films. From the stunning opening 
sequence to the end credits, Director Mar
tin Brest (Flashdance) closely follows the 
formula set by Murphys earlier film 48 
Hours, which mixed violence, drama, and 
laughs. While 48 Hours was at once brutal 
and funny, however, Beverly Hills Cop 
never loses the spirit of comedy. The result 
is a likable and enjoyable film. After seeing 
Starman, youll want to see Beverly Hills 
Cop.
By AL DATRI
Tartan Entertainment Editor
I recently recieved a book by the name of 
Digital Deli. The cover depicts a lunch 
prised of various electronic components, in
cluding a bag of chips. One glance at the 
subtitle, The comprehensive, uwr-lovable 
menu of computer lore, culture, lifestyles 
and fancy, and I was convinced that I was 
holding yet another bourgeois computer 
book. The book market has been flooded 
with thousands of shallow, inane books by 
publishers who think that the public will 
buy anything with the word computer on 
the cover.
But I was wrong. Digital Deli is often 
fascinating, and just as often hilarious. Steve
Ditlea, editor of this compendium, explains; 
Its the first non-computer computer book. 
Its about culture, not hardware, or software, 
or programming, or any of the usual fare. 
Irreverant or inspired, provocative or 
humorous, every article takes a fresh look at 
some aspect of the new age machine. 
While this view of Digital Deli may not 
fully represent the content of this unique 
book, it does agree with the fact that this 
book is neither a hacker manual, nor a yup
pie business guide. Digital Deli is best 
described as a collection of trivia, humor 
and insight. Guest contributors like ex-Apple 
wizard Steve Wozniak, the outspoken 
William F. Buckley, and comedian Henny 
continued on page 14
Collete Sylvestri of Vandergrift announces a Scotch *n Soda production of 
her play Zelda.
This semifictional play present; the life of F. Scott Fitzgeralds wife, Zelda, 
from a womans point of view. Settings include Paris and the United States 
from 1917-1930.
Fifteen roles are to be filled, including those of Cole Porter and Ernest Hem
ingway. Auditions run Jan. 26 and 27 beginning at 1:00 p. m. in Skibo room 
30. Applicants should arrive with one prepared song.
For more information contact Mrs. Sylvestri at 567-6424.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanJanuary 22, 1985
Silicon baloney at the Digital Deli
continued from page 13
Youngman complement regular computer 
writers, such as Business Week reporter 
Deborah Wise in creating this eclectic 
collection.
Those who fea this book is a boring 
tion of 200 page discourses will be relieved 
to find that most articles are short, 
averaging 2 or 3 pages. The topics range 
from the history of computers and software 
piracy to electronic music and special effects 
such as those seen on the Star Wars* movies
The bode also has a good helping of trivia, 
such as Which computer was named after 
a planet from a Star Trek episode? Also 
found is an insightful article on computer 
widows  women who have found 
their husbands so interested in their com
puters that they dont notice that wives have
dyed their hair red. features on education is included, such as
For those who dont know the difference one that deals with adult computer camps, 
between a PET and a mouse, there are a Perhaps the most entertaining selections 
number of pieces that te* another tedious compiia- digital Deli are the whimsical ones, 
what a computer really is, what they do, and such as a love-letter writing program and my 
how they foul up. A good complement of personal favorite, a series of comic strips enNew music from Isko and WRCT
titled The Forty Year Old Hippie.
I recommend this book highly, for com
puter hackers and computer haters alike. 
Everyone can find something tasty to munch 
on in the Digital Deli.
BY MARK ISKOWITZ
Trtan Staffwriter
1. Jean-Michel Jarre  Zoolok (Disques 
Dreyfus)
Too essential for Jarre to destroy. The 
French electronics wizard adds more am
munition to his arsenal including a ma trise
quencer and vocoder. Esteemed guest musi
cians, like Adrian Belew, Laurie Anderson,
A UDIT/ONS
for musicians, comedians and other
entertainersI Auditions to be held between 10 and 5 on Saturday, January 26 and Sunday, January 27. If interested, call Mike Bonanno at 365-1281 between 10 and 3 weekdays.
and Marcus Miller, lend their hands and 
vocal chords. The textures they create are 
dazzling in originality and number. 
Although Jarres intended international 
message never quite reveals itself, his new 
album (import only) breaks new ground 
in electronic music and should keep the en
thusiast glued to his headphones.
2. Droogs  Stone Cold World (Plug N 
Socket)
This album is a brilliant follow-up to 
1983s debut Heads Examined EP. Ric 
Albins energetic, abrasive singing style bor
rows from Joey Ramone and Captain 
Beefhart. Guitars ring strongly with neop
sychedelic/ R&B sounds from the heart. 
Emotional rock & roll with such a slick, ap
pealing delivery is rare these days. From 
Another Side is guaranteed to thrill on first 
listen. David Provost, formerly of The 
Dream Syndicate, keeps the bass rhythms 
lively. This band means business!
3. Bunnydrums  Holy Moly 
(Fundamental)
Philly band hits it big in Holland? Oddly 
enough, yes. Their peculiar brand of dance 
music embraces gothic, funk, and country 
genres in a deadpan, dynamic way. At
mospheric singing and pulsacing, unsettling 
basslines play integral parts in shaping the 
bands unique dark and moving sound. A
screeching cover of Iggys "TV Eye shows 
Bunnydrums at its chaotic best. This album 
joins Shockabillys newest as two Dutch im
ports licensed by Georgias Fundamental 
Music.
4. Dogmatics  Thayer St. (Homestead)
One of 1984s final releases, this LP is one
of last years strongest debuts. This Boston 
quartet performs eight raw roots/garage rock 
originals with the aggressiveness of a veteran 
band. Sax and horns on Gimme The 
Shakes and Sister Serena give the group 
an effective added dimension. An air of 
madcap fun pervades the record, particular
ly on tracks which jab at hardcore music and 
MTV. Boisterous rock & roll without 
pretention.
5. Various Artists  Battle of The 
Garages Vol. 3 (Voxx)
The third in a continuing series of 
American garage rock collections. 16 
Southern California artists, many recorded 
especially for this LP, proudly admit to par
ticipating in the Paisley Underground and 
the 60s revivalist movement. While their 
music may remind you of the Byrds, the 
Seeds, and Them, it should establish names 
like the Pandoras, the Telltale Hearts, and 
The Things. Bonus  a bounty of liner 
notes and photos.
Why choose Hewlett-Packard?
Well be interviewing on January 22,23,24
Here are a few reasons to consider HP:
We constantly encourage new ideas 
to make a product not merely different, but 
better than anything else a customer can buy.
We foster a working environment 
which promotes technical challenge and 
rewards individual contribution.
We encourage the use of our Open 
Door Policy which gives you access to all 
levels of management Your manager 
is approachable and responsive to you on 
a regular basis.
We have professional positions 
for full-time, summer and co-op 
employment, offering irpmediate 
responsibility and choice locations 
throughout the U.S.
Were looking for people in the 
following areas: Comp-Sci, EEs (Field 
Marketing & Field Sales), MEs, MS/Info 
Syst, Industrial Design/Technical Writer.
Were excited about our 
future... join us! Sign up for an interview 
now at your placement office, or send 
your resume to: Manager, 
Employment Administration,
3000 Hanover Street, Palo Alto,
CA 93404.
j* /-or* KutirJo Prrrgnm. H.mvrJ Small
fmdmi l*mr* Wator 1raframmir Dnrlopmru K& MUnair
HSMh Ww HS( V h^mnrHSFt MS Math
U tf Wntmmn. <**"> W V l ut < mhhm-. Sam 7m, StMr f
Darti
m
HEWLETT 
PACKARD

---------------------------------------------------

I! _______________Sports.
[Tartans defeat conference champion Hiram
Coleman scores 21 in victory to even conference record
}y CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
r0rtan Sports Editor
Following a tough loss to John Carroll 
-fdnesday night, CMU bounced back 
aturday to defeat PAC champion Hiram,
5-52.
The Tartans held a 13  2 lead against 
hn Carroll, but lost it before halftime and
st 66  57.
Freshman Hart Coleman had a great 
eek, averaging 19 points and 12 rebounds, 
oleman was very impressive against Hiram, 
ith 21 points and 12 rebounds. Even more 
pressive, Coleman had no turnovers and 
o personal fouls. One of the highlights of 
MUs season came in the first half. Colan stole a pass, and the 6'7" center 
kibbled the length of the court, around two 
rriers, and laid the ball in.
Tom Franklin and David Bart were big 
leys in the victory. Hiram brothers Russ and 
od Swartz had been averaging over 43 
ints per game, and had scored 20 of 
irams 28 first half points. CMU coach 
rry Anderson was playing a 2-3 zone, but 
the second half he went to more 
ickness. Franklin, Bart, John Taormina 
id George Debski played a trapping zone, 
ith Coleman alone under the basket. With 
wer men on the floor, this defense led to 
st break after fast break for Hiram.
This quicker team forced the Terriers out 
their game. Hiram employed the fourt- rner offense, leading by six in the second 
If. Rod Swartz made the mistake of putg the ball on the floor and Franklin 
ocked it away. When Hiram went into the 
11, the Tartans were patient, waiting for
Hiram to make a mistake.
The Swartz brothers each scored 
points, but were held to just 12 in the second 
half. The Terriers were shut out for almost 
seven minutes, from 11:44 to 4:51, and CMU 
outscored Hiram 16  6 in the final 11:44.
Perhaps the most surprising aspect of the 
game was foul shooting. Hiram shot only 
three free throws all game, making two. 
CMU shot 21 times, making just 11, but was 
8 of 13 down the stretch. Dwayne Waite 
made five of seven after shooting just 21 per
cent in the first twelve games. Franklin 
scored a season high five points and had 
eight assists. ^
Anderson said, Tom Franklin played a 
very good floor game. He is a good floor 
general. Franklin made several key free 
throws in the last five minutes, and did not 
commit a turnover.
Taormina, CMUs leading scorer, was held 
to just eight points by Hirams 3-2 zone, but 
Coleman made up the slack. The 3-2 leaves 
a gap in the middle, which Franklin and 
Coleman exploited. Coleman was open 
often, and he made 10 of 16 shots.
Franklin, Bart and Taormina did a good 
job of swinging the ball from side to side to 
open lanes to get the ball inside for short 
jump shots.
When shots were missing, CMU con
trolled the boards 40  29.
Hiram coach Bill Hollinger had some very 
questionable strategies. Hollinger usually 
goes to the four-corner offense whenever he 
gets a lead. Leading 2014 in the first half, 
it looked like the perfect time, but he waited. 
CMU came back to tie the game 20  20.
photo by Olve Peersen
Hart Coleman, who had 21 points, puts up a jumper against Hiram.
Then Hollinger went to the spread. Why 
should Hiram use the spread? They have the 
best shooting team in the conference, hit
ting at a 50% clip. Keeping the score low 
seems to help the opposing team.
Nothing seemed to help the Tartans hold 
the lead Wednesday. Coleman led CMU with 
17 points and Taormina had 14, but 32 per
cent shooting in the second half ruined 
Tech. Herb Cunningham led Carroll with 23 
points, and Andy Juhola had 12 points and 
11 rebounds.
The Tartans play host to Thiel, Wednes
day at 8:00 p.m. in Skibo gym. The Tom
cats feature PAC leading scorer Vic Harp, 
who scored 54 points in a game earlier this 
season. *******
CMUs Taormina was named PAC player of 
the week for the week ending January 12. 
The 6 '2 " swingman from Monaca scored 46 
points and pulled down 15 rebounds as the 
Tartans split games with W&J and Grove 
City. Taormina had career highs of 26 points 
and 12 boards against W&J.
photo by Olve Peersen
|f the keys for the Tartans was slowing down this man, senior captain Russ Swartz.
CMU 55 HIRAM 52
HIRAMFGFTTPCMUFGFTTP
K. Coleman4-6t8Neff2-40-14
Smart3-60-16Waite145-77
Vekasy3-60-06H. Coleman10-161221
Rod Swartz8-180-016Taormina3-92-38
Russ Swartz7-162-216Stewart1-20-22
Laneve0-00-00Franklin1-33 65
Welsh0-00-00Debski2-110-04
Bart2-40-04
Totals25-522-352Totals22-53 11-2155
FG%: H .500, CMU .415.FT >: H .667, CMU.524.
Rebounds: H 29 (Smart 12), CMU 40 (Coleman 12).
Assists: H 15 (Rod Swartz 6), CMU 17 (Franklin 8).
Technical Foul: Russ Swartz. Fouled Out: Vekasy, Russ Swartz. 
Referees: Bill Hill and Gerry Ferber.
Halftime: Hiram 28-24.
For more boxes, 
see pages 18-19

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanJanuary 22, 1985
Ice Tartans, led by Corkery, Spray, beat WVU
By PAUL MASALSKY
Tartan Staffwriter
For the CMU hockey team, Saturdays 
5  2 victory over West Virginia meant much 
more than a tally in the win column.
The victory came against the fourth place 
West Virginians, who are currently com
peting with The Tartans for a playoff spot 
in the West Penn College Hockey Associa
tion. A convincing margin of victory on the 
strength of a rejuvenated squad generated 
a feeling of optimism among the team 
members.
"We played pretty well, but we can always 
play better, remarked Captain Tim Kenney. 
-'"Were just getting things back together with 
the new semester, and theres a great amount 
of spirit among us.
After a shaky 1  31 start, The Tartans 
have won two of their last three contests and 
played admirably in a 51 loss to powerful 
Pitt. The teams play is beginning to resem
ble that of last years squad, which skated 
to a league-leading 203 record.
Steve Desroehers got CMU on the 
scoreboard in the first period, Don Heyse 
assisting. Desrochers goal salvaged an un
productive period in which CMU outshot 
West Virginia 12-2, denting the opposing 
goalie only once.
The Tartans forged to a two goal advan
tage on the strength of Caleb Corkery s two 
second period assists. Corkery, along with 
Rob Katz, set up Eric Spray early in the 
period. Corkery combined with Paul Russo 
to assist on a Katz goal after Tom McDon
nell had countered for West Virginia.
Corkery and Spray scored one goal each 
in the final period, putting the game out of 
reach. The Tartans outshot their opponents 
32-11 in the contest, clearly dominating play 
from start to finish.
The hockey team takes on Gannon 
University in Erie on Friday night in a match 
which promises to be tightly contested. Any 
students wishing to attend can catch a bus 
to the game at 4:30on Friday at Skibo Hall.
Photo bv Dewev Reider
The Ice Tartans had little trouble against WVU or here against PSU- McKeesport.
84-85 Womens Basketball
Ijinrip Arendas75ft-121413111764765/9.320-01354431m_15.fi ...
Mirhfllf* Srhlegel72182256193850057/8.119-2325013filfi .7.
Nanry Dilnlio7*295337173548624/3.425-2146012581_1L6
Ghristi Mnnri 'fi1767.2543475ft38/6.520-24260937.2
Cheryl Han<u*r71045.9* 81018.55fi32/4.614-01174130.3
Donna Nyrio712373243650025/3.614-021611273,9..
Jill Minirlr51filfi7135/1.02-03fi053(Lo
Vivian Rraxtnn6931290A1942135. 5.816-2221192fi4.3 _
Maria Rnher31616700ftftft7/2.32-00202?t:
Val Snoky517143245ftft2/0.71-014014L3 .
Monira Zalevsky?,0fi000133335/2.58-0049310.3.....
TMII71545025077514751ft379/56.7*141-843235131003835-1.7
QPP.7,221.538Q114Qfilo5Q8/5fi 8,m-L,-1Z._L8_-asL..J12-55576-1
includes 73 team and 29 dead ball rebounds.** includes 60 team and 23 dead ball rebounds
Schedule
Wed., Jan. 23, Womens basketball, CMU 
vs. Thiel College; 6:00 p.m., Skibo 
Gym.
Mens basketball, CMU vs. Thiel 
College; 8:00 p.m., Skibo Gym. Radio: 
WRCT-FM, 88.3.
Swimming, CMU at Bethany College; 
7:00 p.m.
Fri., Jan. 25, Swimming, Kenyon In
vitational; at Kenyon.
Hockey, CMU at Gannon; shuttle bus 
leaves at 4:30 from Skibo Hall, game 
at 8:00 p.m.
Sat., Jan. 26, Mens basketball, CMU at 
Westminster College, 8:00 p.m. 
Swimming, Kenyon Invitational; at 
Kenyon.
WE SPEAK TECHNOLOGY. 
DO YOU?
If you're a science or engineering major, youll want to be part of todays Air Force. Were 
developing lasers and satellites that make science fiction seem dated. Air Force ROTC is one way 
to be part of this fast-paced technology. 
Air Force ROTC has 2 through 4-year scholarship programs which help defray some of the 
college costs  tuition, textbooks, laboratory and incidental fees. 
After graduation, youll be an Air Force officer, and will join those who are leading us into 
space-age technology. 
Take a close look at Air Force ROTC now. Dont let technology pass you buy. Be a part of it.
For information contact: AFROTC, Porter Hall, Rm 15
Capt Michael Lacroix 578-8747 AIR FORCE
Gateway to a great way of life.ROTC

---------------------------------------------------

January 22, 1985The TartanPage 17
an Francisco reels in 
[Dolphins in Super Bowl 
38-16, Montana MVP
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Sports Editor
Led by a superb performance by quarter
back Joe Montana, the NFC champion San 
Fransisco 49ers dominated the Miami 
Dolphins in Super Bowl XIX, 38-16. 
Montana threw for over 330 yards, setting 
new Super Bowl record for most yards in 
one game. Records were also set by Roger 
Craig and Ray Wersching, and the Niners 
set several team records.
Craig had 140 all-purpose yards. He had 
eight receptions for 52 yards and 58 yards 
on 15 rushes. His three touchdowns (two 
receiving, one rushing) set a new record. 
Wersching kicked a 28 yard field goal, givBowl XIX Box
1 2 3 4 tot
I MIA 10 6 0 0 16
ISF * 21 10 0 38
Scoring Summary 
MIA- von Schamann 37 fg 
SF- Malone 38 pass from Montana
(Wersching kick)
MIA- Johnson 2 pass from Marino (von 
Schamann kick)
SF Craig 8 pass from Montana (Wersching
ick)
SF- Montana 6 run (Wersching kick)
F Craig 2 run (Wersching kick)
MIA von Schamann 31 fg 
[MIA- von Schamann 30 fg 
F- Wersching 28 fg
F Craig 16 pass from Montana (Wersching
ick)
ing him five Super Bowl field goals in his 
career, also a record. Wersching kicked four 
field goals against Cincinnati in Super Bowl 
XVI.
The 49ers tied the record for most points, 
38, and set records for most yards offense 
and total passing yardage.
The S.F. secondary has four all-pros in 
Eric Wright, Ronnie Lott, Carlton William
son and Dwight Hicks, and they proved why 
they were invited to the Pro Bowl game. 
Along with a strong pass rush, these four 
stymied Dan Marino, forcing two intercep
tions and giving up just a two yard 
touchdown pass.
The 49ers became the first team to win 
18 games in a season (18-1). Only four Tar
tan staff members predicted the game cor
rectly out of the 13 that tried. They includ
ed Katrin Wesner, Michael Sussman, Jeff 
Bergman, and yours truly. Mark Kissner was 
disappointed again as the Cubs could not 
pull out the victory.IM Report: basketball in full swing
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Sports Editor
Not a lot this week in the IM news. Here 
is all you have to know to make it through 
the week as an intramural athlete 
BASKETBALL 
After minimal action last week, the 
schedule is in full swing this week. Check the 
bulletin board for times. And what is it with 
you ladies? Only one womens team signed 
up by the deadline, so the deadline has been
extended. Tuesday, January 22 at 4:30 is 
your new deadline. GET THOSE TEAMS
IN!
NEW SPORTS
Deadline Thursday, January 24 at 4:30 
pm for Water Basketball, Wrestling, and 
Floor Hockey. Pinochle teams are also due 
soon, check local listings (the IM office, 
x2214).
NEW MEETING TIME
IM Board Meeting January 24, 2:00 pm,
room 101 in the gym.
Good luck to all of you who are going all 
out for the beautiful all-sports trophy.
. i  *. '
Before College ...
There is Pre-College.
Re/ire the experience as counselor for the 
1985 Pre-Cot lege Program at C.M.U. this 
summer.
N FTTCeGEoeAma GEm tr TeGLrD cT em or VcHHrh VocDera YPPeGrU Wuy vEhmrh .ECCU Ah Eo or VLetA ,mPAhHEoeAm qraL aoEhoemS iEmcEhO lpR Wnysf
NFTTCeGEoeAma Hcao tr hrochmrD oA or VcHHrh VocDera YPPeGr tO wrthcEhO Wsf
JCE oA EoormD Ach emPAhHEC emPAhHEoeAm araaeAm oA CrEhm HAhr EtAco acHHrh rHTCAOHrmo ATTAhocmeoera em or JhrfxACCrSr JhAShEH mmvrDmraDEOR wrthcEhO Wpo em or vrhhroo dAAH PhAH 4Muu oA sMpu TRNR
Be a part of the C.M.U. Summer as it comes alive in 85.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanJanuary 22, 1985
CMU
Coleman
Neff
Francis and Fitzgerald lead swim team to victory over W&J Presidents
By MAURA A. SAVINI
Trtan Staffwriter
The Tartan swim team handily defeated 
Washington and Jefferson Saturday, 74-39. 
CMU made major showings in six of eleven 
events. Steve Francis, usually a sprinter (50, 
100 freestyle) took first in the 500 freestyle 
event.
The team was expected to win. Several 
swimmers were entered as exhibition com
petitors, meaning that they were not com
peting for points.
Mike Fitzgerald swam well, taking first 
place in the 200 Intermediate Medley, and 
swimming a leg for the first place Medley 
Relay team. The others on the medley team 
were Rob Summers, Whitney Foster, and 
Steve Francis. Patty Illig also made a strong
showing, finishing second in the 1000 
freestyle event.
The diving team also performed 
tionally well. Carol Freund attempted, and 
nailed, a two-and-one-half front somersault 
from the three meter board. This was the 
first time she threw that particular dive in 
a meet.
Mark Flanagan featured a new dive from 
the one meter board: a front one-and-a-half 
somersault with a full twist.
The swim team was recovering from a loss 
to Grove City the week before. Although the 
Tartans performed well, the Wolverines per
formed a litde better. Beating W&J this week 
was a preparation for the Kenyon Invita
tional January 25-26.
FINANCIAL AID APPLICANTS 1985-86
Financial Aid Applications for the 1985-86 academic year will be available for pick-up in the Financial Aid Office, 216 Warner Hall, after February 4, 1985. Please insure that you apply before MAY 1,1985, unless otherwise specified by your particular state grant agency; Please note the following specific state grant deadlines:
Residents ofs
Connecticut  February 1, 1985* 
April 15, 1985** 
Delaware  April 30, 1985 Washington, D.C. 
June 15, 1985** 
Maryland  March 1, 1985 Massachusetts  March 1, 1985
New Jersey  October 1, 1985 (Only renewable students need to apply) Ohio  August 16, 1985*** Pennsylvania  May 1, 1985*** Rhode Island  March 1, 1985 Vermont  March 1, 1985 West Virginia  March 1, 1985
 non-renewals * * *  in order to apply for this state grant, you must
 renewals complete a separate state grpnt application.
PATE
Mon., Jan. 21st
VJd,NGxFdN,VFLBYYT.MEET,NGV
TIME ROOM IN SKIBO
5pm
Mon., Feb. 4th7pm
Mon., Feb. 18th7pm
Mon. Mar. 4th
CMU s swim team getting off the blocks in last weeks meet versus Grove City.
Mon.. Apr. ISt
Catch Our Late Show!
wheDEO and Saturday N/Sva
Wl ERHR  p 3-m
vrhr mAw ATrm l4 Acha rvrhODEO
fathPank
Murray Ave., Squirrel Hill
NEW MEMBERS 
INTRODUCTORY
MEETING^
TONITE 8:30 SKIBO 12
All interested students and sign-ups 
should attend. Come join...
IheMaL

---------------------------------------------------

January 22, 1985-The Tartan-Page 19
84-85 Mens Basketball
G FGM FGA PCT FTM FTA PCT R/RPG PF-D A DO BI.K ST TP PPC
13----3J------82328II___19_.579, 43/3 3 29-0 ft 19 1 7 73 5 fi
13----34------804258-----2]_381____72/5.6 31-2 0 15 fi in 7fi 5 a
13----56142 .394 22----52.423 129/10.0____36-0 2 31 23 90 134 101
10----12------------43395 10--13_769 17/1 7 95-9 17 94- n in aa a a
13----371003202-----6____333 IS/1 4 93-0 17 9Q n 7 7fi 5 Q
13----24150 .493 52-----71_JZ32____66/5.1 30-0 98 45 3 13 901 15 5
1 2--18----42---428A-------8----500 21/1.6_____15D__20___17 0 10 40 3.3
1 3--35.8541216----34___AM___51/3.9 26-0 7 94 3 ft ftfi fi fi
13------3----14----21510-----18_.556 25/1.9 94-0 50 91 l 19 ifi 1 9
4-----10----19326 2___5__400__10/2.5 13-0 1 9 0 1 99 5 5
3 - 1----2 ..500. 0_ 0 ..000. 1.0.3 1-0 0 0____0 0 2 0.6
J-----1------3-----333 0___Q_ .000 __2/2.0 1-0 1 2 0 0 9 9 0
1.0 Q ..000. 0 0 .000 ___2. 2.0_____0-0 0____0____0 0 0 _ 0.0
2 0------0 ..000, 0 1 ..000___2.1.0____3-0____0.. 1_0 . 1______ 0 0.0
2 0-----J.000. 0 0 .000.__1. 0.5 __10____0 0 Q___0____0_0.0
1.0.1 ...000____2_._t._2_.,,1.000,_1/1.0 0-0_____0 2 0_ 0_2 2.0
11 4 .250 01u-QQoJ_0/0____ 0-0,0,0,00 2 90
.NAME.
George DehsJkj 
Dwavne Waite 
liai; (.ulma
Rnhert BrownSCORING- overallMirhael Stewart 
Jr>hn Taormina 
Pavid Bart--------
Vic Harp Thiel 
Rod Swartz Hiram 
T. Torchia W&J 
Jay Peters GCC 
Russ Swartz Hiram 
Cunningham JCU
C. Siverling GCC 
J. Taormina CMU 
Vanderveen Thiel 
Yankovich Beth. 
Andy Juhola JCU 
A. Bradstock W&J
D. Vekasy Hiram
Tnm Franklin
Jay Glaspy-----
Dave Oestrich
Steve Jochnau 
David Smith
John Bender 
Srott Saxton
1 like Demo
Roger DeVries
530/40.8
531/40.8 1 258-8
Dunks: Coleman 1Waite 1 
--------  ...............
Forward Lanes now hasALL-NIGHT BOWLING
from midnight to 5 am 
Fridays and Saturdays 
$20 per iane 
in Squirrel Hill 
for more information call 422-5844
TP JCU 
4 Cannon I||| 
8 Juhola 
17 Wilhelm 
4 Cunningham
3-5 0-0 6 Harris 6-10 1-2 13
r 0-0 0-0 0 Berger ~ 0-2 0-0 0
, 0-0 0-0 0 Combs 0-1 0-0 0
1-8 2-4 4 Schramm 1-2 0-1 2
in 0-1 0-0 0
26-65 5-10 57 Totals 29-59 8-12 66
CMU 400, JCU .491 FT%: CMU .500, JCU 667. 
ads: CMU 38 (Coleman 12), JCU 37 0uhola 11).
: CMU 10 (Taormina 6), JCU 14 (Iltig 1). 
ne: 29-29.
es: Tom Callihan and Bill Reynolds.
Our Full Service Salon Offers:
HAIR CUTTING *HAIR COLOR BODY WAVES JERI CURLS CAREFREE CURLS RELAXERS Call TodaySalvatore Puccini can help you achieve that certain look of success for the many times of your life. Step into Puccinis where our skilled professionals offer the finest elements of hair design. A
110 South Bouquet StOakland621-2067
vYMENV TEMF ?;oo
I MEN'S| q:oo f.n.SKIBO
Convenient Day 
& Evening Hours
Includes body wave, haircut 
blow dry and styling
J

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Guardian Angels? 
Here at CMU?
The Guardian Angels have sparked controversy 
from the very first time an Angel has walked a beat. 
With their imminent presence at CMU, it becomes 
time for yet another campus to weigh the advantages 
and disadvantages of what some have called a vigilante 
group, but what others have compared to a 
neighborhood block watch.
It is difficult to pass judgment on an individual 
group of Guardian Angels sight unseen. The national 
organization was formed with the best of intentions: 
here was a chance for concerned, able-bodied in
dividual to make a dent in the everpresent plague of 
street crime. Unfortunately, a combination of ques
tionable and dangerous actions on the part of in
dividual Angels, some public opposition and 
widespread police opposition have all marred the 
Angels otherwise fair record.
So here they are knocking on our door. What do 
we do? Do we let them in? Instead of considering the 
Guardian Angels solely at face value, lets look at the 
situation they might inherit:
Are there any other options for campus protec
tion? CMU has been relying on its Security to guard 
the campus for many years. The schoool pays salaries 
to these officers and workers at Security with good 
reasonbetter training. The Angels freely admit to 
only three months training for each member; 
although respectable for a volunteer, an Angels train
ing comes nowhere near the expertise of a Security 
officer. Compare with this the natural antipathy bet
ween police and Angels, and the question is placed 
in considerable doubt.
Are they really wanted? In the past couple of years, 
several incidents at CMU have shown the strong, 
almost familial attitude with which the Administra
tion has dealt with internal problems. In the incidents 
involving Jeff Suzuki, Orpheus Allison, and the two 
involving ZBT, the first reaction Warner Hall has had 
has been to deal with the problem on campus first. 
Only after passing judgment did the Administration 
allow outside authorities to take corrective actions.
Considering this attitude, a natural stance the Ad
ministration might take on the enlistment of Guar
dian Angels at CMU becomes apparent. The we take 
care of our own with our own reflex would dictate 
that CMU beef up Security, rather than call in ques
tionable outside aid.
Are they really needed? CMU has a low crime rate; 
contrasted with other city schools, the Oakland loca
tion might even be one of the safest urban campuses 
in the country. Do we really need more help than we 
have already? And even if the crime rate were to in
crease suddenly, CMUs financial soundness begs the 
question: Why dont we then invest in more Security?
The answers at first seem obvious, but if we change 
our focus from on-campus to off-campus the answers 
are no longer clear-cut. Security patrols a long string 
of University-owned buildings, from Mellon Institute 
to Shadyside Apartments, and then some. Because of 
the spread-out nature of these buildings, Security can 
only hope to make regular rounds in squad cars. It 
is the dark areas between the buildings and the cam
pus, however, that are more dangerous than the cam
pus itself. Thes areas of nebulous CMU influence 
might be one good reason to have Guardian Angels 
aroundtheir ability to cover the streets separating 
the outer fringes of campus.
Returning now to the original question, it seems 
clear that CMU has only marginal use for the Guar
dian Angels. Comparing this with their reputation, 
the Administration is best advised to decline their of
fer kindly. The Angels might be useful on the cam
pus periphery, but at this point in time, why take un
necessary risks?
The Complaint Department strikes agarn
By Christopher D. Lewis 
Starting the semester with some complaints, harp
ing on housing, holidays, and starting the semester.
I sometimes speak too much about Carol Apart
ments, but I have many friends there who suffer. This 
is a serious complaint. You people should 
go directly to Tony Martin. Most of the 
windows leak cold air now, if they close at 
all. The only way the residents can vacuum 
is if they pick up a vacuum at Morewood, and take 
it on the shuttle out to Carol. If you take a shower or 
a bath, chances are the apartment below you (isnt t 
true, apt. 1) will have a stream coming out of thei 
walls.The housing office did a great job renovatin] 
Morewood Gardens and Shirley Apartments in recenj 
times. But Carol is a disgrace. You have sent these ] 
pie far away from campus, which is enough of a hai 
sle, especially in winter. Dont make them freeze noi 
that they are there. The Resident Assistant has madt 
numerous requests for repairs, but no one hears. Acl 
tually, no one listens. continued on page 5 J
Letters:
Editor:
Along with the new leadership 
of The Tartan came the notion 
that the Tartan Opinion section 
is not the appropriate place for 
political commentary and that 
The Tartan should be concerned 
with campus affairs exclusively.
I agree that The Tartan should 
be a campus-oriented newspaper. 
I also believe that this idea doesnt 
preclude political discourse from 
it.
The premise of the new editorin-chief is that if one wants to 
read about politics, he nee<f only 
pick up the Pittsburgh Press.
This premise fails to make the 
distinction between a column by, 
say, a prominent journalist in a 
national newspaper and a col
umn, on the same topic, by a 
CMU student. Here a distinction 
must be made. While a weekly 
column by, say, George Will 
would be out of place in The Tar
tan, a students column has its 
place because it is written from a 
CMU perspective.
The article in last weeks Tar
tan concerning a CMU professors 
views on the causes of war can il
lustrate my point. This article was 
appropriate for The Tartan in 
that it concerned research and 
thought at CMU. Even though 
war is not a campus event, the ar
ticle was appropriate since it lookDebating over topics of| debate in Op/Ed
ed at an international 
phenomenon from a CMU 
perspective.
The article stated is analogous 
to a column on politics, which has 
its appropriate place in The Tar
tan for the same reasons. At 
CMU, we are taught to think 
about events occuring in the 
world, as the professors research 
shows, not to be isolated from it. 
The opinion section can be an in
dication of how CMU has in
fluenced us.
A certain closeness comes 
with reading a column in The 
Tartan that you wonVexperience 
In reading a larger newspaper. 
This "closeness* comes from fin
ding out the opinions of other 
students, persons of approximate
ly the same education and age, 
whom you can waft up to and. 
praise or criticize. Closeness 
doesnt necessitate the exclusion 
of outside events. Look at the 
local news on T.V. Three 
minutes on world events, ten 
minutes on sports and the rest on 
deaths, mishaps, and other 
human interest stories. The Tar
tan need not head in this direc
tion. I dont think anyone really 
wants to hear about tne SEI every 
week.
To restate my point, I believe 
anything written from a CMU 
perspective (by CMU students,
faculty, etc.) is appropriai| 
material for a CMU newspap 
How unaware we would all bej 
the only place we could readi 
tional news was in USA Today] 
prefer the New York Times.
David Mosko* 
Civil Engineering 
Editors Note: While polity 
discussion in the Of' 
nion/Editorial section has bee*j 
feature in recent issues, it is by* 
means a permanent exile. 
problem with Op/Ed in the I 
has been quite the opposite 
fact: there has been too much11 
politics, abortion, dftd 
topics of only indirect ini 
to the CMU campus. The( 
manifestation of Op /Ed re)1 
an attempt to bring more cv* 
and relevant topics to 
readers.
We are not, nor will v>*1 
be, a newspaper with the scop] 
The New York Times or USA 1 
day. The Tartan should serf* 
6000+ population of 
presenting topics as genert 
varied as possible; politics 
ly one of many subjects -
appear on these pages ,fl 
future. It should also se^ 
staying closer to home,fTn 
has yet solved the proW% 
political struggle on the 0, 
pages of a small c0 
newspaper.

---------------------------------------------------

January 22, 1985The TartanPage 21
iberal-arts tourbus  now boarding
xperiences of a news 
Jditor while in CFA
By Karen Gray
Whoever said that you cant get a wellIljunded education at CMU obviously never 
J>ok advantage of those wonderful courses 
1 ir non-majors! Good old CMU. Here H&SS 
students get a watered-down ver
sion of almost everything. You 
can travel all over the place  
from Edu terminal to Botany 
.d never feel intimidated. Its kind of like 
taking a tour of the Hersheys Chocolate Faciry by choco-mobile instead of walking. 
Now, here I was, heading over to the ColMge of Fine Arts for my Design 106 for NonB ajors class. I would assault the art world
 th my lines and my squiggles. I would wear
scarves.
Did you ever notice that the CFA building 
is better looking than any of the other cam
pus buildings? Did you ever notice that the 
people inside the building are better looking than any of the other people on cam
pus? Theyre also just plain funnier, too.
My class started off well. We began by 
drawing lines and shapes. I had bought my 
wad of typing paper at the bookstore, so I 
scribbled on that. Soon, I was happy. We 
were allowed to talk freely with one another 
in class. I found the whole format extreme
ly therapeutic, like folding five hundred 
newspapers in one afternoon or dipping 
rasins into a bowl of soft cream cheese, and 
eating them, one by one, for a long, uninter
rupted period of time.
Since the class was three hours long, we 
were allowed to take a break and stroll 
around the building. Down the hall, there
was a drawing class in session. I peeped my 
head inside the doorway. Here, no one spoke, 
as everyone was intent on drawing two nak
ed mannequins someone must have set up 
beforehand. Then I thought, maybe those 
were real people who were really naked. But 
they were so unmoving that I just couldnt 
tell. I thought I whispered, but actually 
must have almost shouted to someone stan
ding next to me, Are those people manne
quins or are they really naked or what?
No one paid any attention to me except 
for a man who wasnt drawing. He turned 
and smiled at me, a smile which said, You 
have trouble with the neude? I turned and 
ran back to 106 for Non-Majors, where I 
drew my rows of lines with my Le Pen more 
furiously than ever.
As 1 worked, I wondered about the plight 
of those in a situation opposite my own. 
What about the applied math major who
wishes to take an English elective? There 
ought to be watered-down H&SS courses for 
those types, but strangely enough, there 
arent. How about developing some? Instead 
of offering Sex and Gender, to everyone, we 
could have Sex and Gender: Above the 
Waist Only. Or how about Creative Writing 
for People with a Lot of Other Homework? 
Self-Paced Introductory Philosophy could be 
another option.
Then again, I should remember that most 
of those people wouldnt have the time to 
take too many of my new elctives anyway. 
Theyre too busy preparing for a much bet
ter job market than I as an English major 
will ever know. Hey, if I married an engineer, 
then everything would be all set and I could 
write stuff like this all the time.
Good old CMU. . .
Karen Gray is a sophomore in English, 
and is News Editor of The Tartan.
mchael Bett  From the Chair
Auxiliary Services: Not just any committee...
3 Auxiliary Services is the committee t 
I sponsible for gathering input from both 
Indents and administrators on proposed 
l)licies, budgets and rate schedules for both 
using and University Dining Service. So 
at has the Auxiliary Services Committee 
en up to lately? you ask. Good question, 
dally since that is what this weeks coln is about. Sit back and you will hear the 
hlights of the Auxiliary Services commitmeetings of late November and last 
[ednesday, January 16th.
At the November meeting HousingK
 finally requested a fifty-dollar damage 
>osit to be paid at the beginning of each 
The reasoning behind this was that 
idents who are in university housing and 
n| ive the university for whatever reason must 
I billed to cover damages. By paying a
fm posit, instead of sending bills, Housing 
Ituld be able to send checks with the 
Tiount for the damage subtracted. The 
I -ling of the committee was that this was 
hfeood idea, but a fifty-dollar deposit was 
essive, with maximum damages averagfifteen to twenty dollars. Therefore, they 
ided upon a twenty-dollar damage 
sit.
More recently, a recurring housing prom was brought up at the January Auxry Services committee meeting. Each year
up to seventy-five freshmen cannot be given 
dormitory housing when the space is actually 
available. Another thirty choose to go to a 
different college because they are unable to 
get campus housing. At the root of this situa
tion are approximately one hundred and fif
ty students each year who pay their initial 
Housing deposit and then before the fall 
semester either move off-campus or into 
fraternities. Related to this are over one hun
dred vacancies in housing each spring. 
These are due mainly to graduating and 
suspended students moving out of campus 
housing.
As a solution, Housing originally propos
ed a $200 Housing deposit to be paid in 
February. While the $200 deposit would 
solve the problem of keeping more students 
committed to their Housing contracts and 
it would recap some of the loss from the 
spring vacancies, it was thought to be 
unrealistic to expect a student to afford a 
$200 deposit. This is especially true since 
emergency loans are at a yearly high when 
Housing deposits are due. An alternative 
plan was to have a $100 deposit in February 
and add an additional $100 to the fall 
semester bill, adjusting financial aid accor
dingly. This would take care of the spring 
vacancies, but would do nothing to help the 
freshmen in the fall. The proposal at the
January committee meeting was to have a 
February deposit of $100 and a June deposit 
of $100. This would solve both problems, 
since Housing would receive additional 
assurance that students are planning to live 
in campus housing as well as help defray 
some of the losses from the spring semester. 
The objections raised to this were that 
students would have to pay for this out of 
their own pocket and not from financial aid; 
students may be difficult to contact during 
the summer; and finally what would hap
pen to the students who could not be con
tacted. As an alternative it was suggested 
that students sign a slip in June authorizing 
Housing to add an additional $100 to their 
fall semester bill. However, this has not yet 
been accepted, so what will happen remains 
to be seen.
The proposed room rate increases were 
also discussed at the January Auxiliary Ser
vices committee meeting. The overall in
crease expected will be about 5 percent. Oncampus rates will be raised proportionally 
more than those in the Oakland/Shadyside 
housing. The reasoning behind this is to 
make Housings off-campus apartments 
more attractive to upperclassmen, thus free
ing more on-campus housing for incoming 
freshmen. All in all, the rate increases seem 
fair, and the Oakland/Shadyside apartments
may be well worth considering as a lessexpensive alternative. You get a larger apart
ment for less money and you still receive all 
the benefits of remaining in the Housing 
system.
The final item that was brought up at the 
January meeting was Housings intention to 
add a clause to the Housing contract. This 
clause would place the added responsibility 
on Housing to send a notice of cancellation 
by registered mail to students who are 
suspended from the university. This simply 
formalizes what had previously been done 
and at the same time would require Hous
ing to give notice of the intended action.
Well, thats what has been happening 
recently in Auxiliary Services. If youre not 
satisfied with any decisions we have made 
or you would like to see more information, 
we would like to hear from you; after all, 
it is your campus and your money. As per 
usual, Senate will be meeting tonight at 7:00 
p.m. in the Wherrett Room. Members of the 
campus community are always welcome to 
attend. If you can not make the meeting you 
can contact me by calling 682-4626 or leav
ing a note on the Senate office door, Skibo 
59.
Michael Bett is a junior in Mathematics, 
and is Chairman of Student Senate.
*ointinq out a few things TteTartsti.
FHitnr-in-Chief....................SteDhen Volan
By Dan Tobias
Since I cant think of any earth-shaking 
{(I,^_)1CS t0 write about, here are a few random ib iServations.
Ongratulations to the University Dining 
Service for issuing their menu in 
printed form, in a stack in Kiltie. 
That was a good idea, better 
than their attempt to make their 
nu available online, which somehow still 
nt made it to TOPS-F.
0re on their closing of the Wean Hall 
lnal room to make way for a new PC 
^er According to an old issue of CUR imputation Center newsletter, 
once had a total of 54 terminals, 
there are 25 PCs in that room. This 
net *oss 29 terminals for those archaic 
P e who insist on using DEC-20 s. 
Peaking of terminals, they still havent 
^succeeded in eradicating all traces of 
rd U rm*nak on campus. Morewood 
stH has a terminal room, open 24 
^ Ufing the academic term. However, 
the place up during vacations. 
*s no place to go if you have anrere still
insatiable urge to log in before the start of 
a semester. Its probably only a matter of 
time before they put a PC cluster in 
Morewood in place of the terminals, anyway.
On the way to the Morewood terminal 
room, I noticed a number of other facilities 
such as a TV room, a library of paperbacks, 
and a study room. All of these had posted 
hours usually lasting from noon to midnight 
or therabouts. I cant understand why they 
ever keep these rooms locked at all. They 
never have attendants watching at any hour, 
and they seem to contain fewer items of 
value than the terminal room, which is kept 
open 24 hours. If they can trust students 
not to steal or vandalize the thousands of 
dollars worth of Somewhat portable ter
minals which are left open all night, then 
why cant they trust them with a few pieces 
of bulky furniture in the study room, some 
cheap paperback books in the library, and 
an enormous TV which students probably 
couldnt get through the door, even if they 
wanted to steal it?
Since it is now Tuesday, January 22 to you 
readers, you must know who won the Super
Bowl. However, since it is Friday, January 18 
to me, writing this, I do not know who will 
win. Why dont you tell me, so I can make 
a fortune betting on it?
Goodbye for now.
Dan Tobias is a junior in Applied Math 
and is a columnist for The Tartan.
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the beginning of the opinion 
section, and are the official opinion of The Tar
tan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual authors 
who are usually on The Tartan staff, but the 
opinions are not necessarily those of The Tartan 
Editorial Board.
Letun to the Editor are opinions of individual 
authors who are usually members of the Untversity community. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writers address 
and phone number for verification. Names will 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan resents 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
Editor-in-Chief......................Stephen Volan
Managing Editor...................Mike Pilewski
News Editor.............................Karen Gray
Features Editor......................Ric Medrow
Entertainment Editor....................Al Datri
Sports Editor.................Christopher Lewis
Photography Editor............Mike Pilewski
Business Manager............John Friedman
Art Manager.................Michael Sussman
Production Manager.... Katrin Wesner 
Ads Production Manager. Stephen Volan 
Typesetting Manager............Jill Clelland
Asst. Business Mgr..............John Lumpkin
Asst. Art Mgr..........................Mark Kissner
Asst. Typesetting Mgr..............Joe Hasper
Contributing Editors: Peter Bain, Judy Mer
rill, Bonnie Topf, Pauline Wen
Production Staff: Bob Aarhus, John Blanck, 
Dennis Cohen, Mohan Embar, Jennifer 
Even, Don Gamble, Dana Hausman, Paul 
Masalsky, Amy Vertman.
Copyright 1985 by The Tartan. The Editorial Board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit for publication.

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
CLASSIFIEDS
ANXIOUS? LONELY? DEPRESSED? Trouble 
with family or friends? Sexual questions? Marital 
or parenting problems? Lack of motivation? 
Sleeping or eating problems? Talking about your 
life with a psychotherapist may help. A private 
clinic, we offer confidential, insight-oriented 
psychotherapy at moderate fees. Approximately 
half of our patients are students. Insuranceapproved. Pittsburgh Psychoanalytic Center 
661-2300.
WORD PROCESSING: MANUSCRIPTS, 
RESUMES AND COVER LETTERS, DISSER 
TATIONS, TERM PAPERS; Exact Copy/Editing 
Available, 24-hour service, 621-8544/681-5416.
PAID MARKETING INTERNSHIP, Pitt 
sburgh Symphony. Plan, implement student sales 
at local campuses. Must be available through next 
fall. Min. 15 hrs/week. Should be outgoing, some 
experience in sales, promotion, writing. 
$100/month plus symphony tickets.
Academic Bag Ladies  4515 Forbes, 682-6886, 
Thursdays 12-1. Support, sharing for women 
25 + . Bring a bag lunch.
WANTED: HARPIST for wedding May 25, 
1985; call 242-4826 Ms. Johnson for information 
after 10 pm.
Creative, compassionate COUNSELING to
reduce your stress, to enhance your functioning. 
Contact Margaret Laske, M.S.W., at. 421-5219. 
Shadyside/Oakland partially-furnished large 
1-bedroom with free laundry, gas, heat. $320.00 
plus electric. 471-1122.
PARTIES  PARTIES  PARTIES One stop 
party shopping at Papermart, 5000 Baum Blvd 
(Baum at Morewood). Decorations for all occa
sions  holidays, weddings, baby showers, luaus, 
birthdays, graduations, etc etc etc . . . over 8000 
sq ft of party supplies in our party supermarket. 
681-8900.
Marketing Internship, Pittsburgh Symphony.
Assist Marketing Manager with ongoing promo
tional campaigns. Writing, organizational skills 
necessary. Min. 10 hrs/week. Reimbursement: 
tickets to symphony concerts.
FLYING FINGERS Word Processing. Letter or 
typeset quality resumes, cover letters, papers and 
manuscripts. Floppy disks available. Van Sickels 
731-8978.
THE GUEST HOME at White Oak for Business 
Travel, Relocation, Education, Emergency, 
Tourism. Fine quality; member of Pgh. B&B. 
(412)751-7143.
LANGUAGE CONSULTANTS  TUTOR 
ING: English as a second language; Spanish, 
English. ACADEMIC EDITING: Term papers, 
dissertations. Evenings and Weekends. 421-9239.
Alpha Phi Omega Book Exchange will be i 
ning checks and/or books in Skibo room 
Saturday, January 26, from 11 am to 6 pm. 
bring a valid ID. All books over a year old ] 
the property of A Phi O. For info call x2lM 
Squirrel Hill Female Roommate Wanted: 1 
a townhouse. 5416 Beacon St. Call 42I-3355] 
no answer 459-9376.
Attention Social Chairperson: PROTO\I 
ready to rock and roll your next party. Live 1 
from the 60s through the 80s. Call 68I-3203I 
731-2143 evenings.
Unibed V\fey
During the time you're an undergraduate or graduate student, 
you may experience some of the following:
DEPRESSION  ANXIETY  LONELINESS  ANGER  CAREER DOUBTS
 FAMILY TROUBLES  DIFFICULTY WITH FRIENDSHIPS 
SEXUAL QUESTIONS  MARITAL OR PARENTING PROBLEMS
 LACK OF MOTIVATION  SLEEPING OR EATING PROBLEMS
Up to a certain level these feelings are quite normal, but when they begin to get 
in the way or overwhelm you, psychotherapy may be of help. Approximately 
half of our patients are students.
If you are interested in seeking such help through insight-oriented, confi
dential psychotherapy on a sliding fee scale, call 661-2300 and ask for Mrs. 
Brown. Qualified therapists will be available to speak with you. We are only 2 
miles from Oakland, an easy bus ride. Insurance coverage can often be utilized.
%
The Pittsburgh Psychoanalytic Center
211 N. Whitfield St, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206 
A private clinic in the public service
Do you want to be a
RESIDENT 
ASSISTANT
next year?
creative, compassionate COUNSELING 
to reduce your stress 
to enhance your functioning
MARGARET LASKE, M.S.W. 
421-5219
MURRAY A. FELDEItl
ATTORNEY AT LAW
Civil and Criminal
3447 Forbes Ave. 
Oakland683-3
DEBRA ABELL m.d. dermatologist
 student discount available
 easily accessible by bus from CMU
239 Fourth Ave., Suite 217, Downtown 281-4770
MasterCard, Visa accept 
Call appointment
Applications will be available at 
the Selection Interest Sessions on
Tuesday, January 22 at 9:00pm 
Wednesday, January 23 at 9:00pm
in the Wherrett Room
You must attend one of these sessions to apply 
Applications Due: Friday, January 25
The Forbes Gallery
5200 forbes avenue
will review work for its annual
High-Tech Show
on Sunday, february 3 
at 7:00 p.m. in the gallery 
(open to entire campus)
submissions may include: photography (matted, w/glass) videos computer art performance art
questions?:
Terri Glueck 578-4206 
Kirk Botula 621-2790
show opens: tuesday,
february 5, 7:00 p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

Finies.
oe FreshmanBy Mark Levine
GUZ, tttt'SSOHU6H 
STPANbE SOFWttft Httt 
1 Mjodoif.  tWS 
OISK DOES...
click! Wap us; Joe < 
Ri5WrtAM yoiMi OU* 
ONLY HOfi/tUCk.1 REt?
>^us, 3oe msuCJtyu'te 
Must Ne
A Muer/ OlSK I TAWWMAIM 
DlWE... J'Xn TW-KIW6 
-tr^\ to You/
til Hoft/tHtK.* Help 
US, "3o ffSWWiN, Iwtt 
OOf' OHL'f H0fEf click! 
V Htlf US, Zol F.
By Maszie and Beyeroindexter
Wtu_, w ouup e 
wotve.
flferr/ CPU? or wCtrf
LOOKOUT
MOREWOOD MENUKILTIE MENU
TUES
1/22
Lunch: Grilled Ham & Cheese, Ham
burger Stroganoff, Rice & Spinach 
Bake; Dinner: Tacos, Vegetable 
Tacos, Cheese & Mushroom Quiche
TUES
1/22
Lunch: Stromboli, California Quiche, 
Buckboard Sandwich; Dinner: 
Salisbury Steak, Cheese Stuffed Shells, 
Baked ZucchiniSPRING CARNIVAL 85
WED
1/23
Lunch: Deli Bar, Burritos, Beef 
Tacos; Dinner: Veal/Gravy, Sweet & 
Sour Meat Balls, Chinese Dinner
WED
1/23
Lunch: Chicken Sandwich, Tuna & 
Mushroom/Noodles, Carrot Loaf; 
Dinner: Spaghetti/Meat Balls, 
Spaghetti/Sauce, Sausage Omelettes
The Booth Chairmen and Spring Carnival Commit
tee have decided on a Cartoons/Comics theme for 1985. 
Since its YOUR Carnival, we need you to help us select 
a more appropriate theme title (than Car
toons/Comics), and a related slogan. Please enter your 
ideas on the lines below, and return to Skibo Informa
tion Desk by Monday, January 28. A special prize will 
be awarded!
THU
1/24
Lunch: Deli Bar, Gyros on Pita, Beef 
Macaroni & Cheese; Dinner: Barbeque Chicken, Beef Turnover, Carrot 
Loaf
THU
1/24
Lunch Hamburgers, Ham Ala King, 
Pasta Bean Casserole; Dinner: Baked 
Chicken, Seafood Creole. Cheese 
Souffle
FRI
1/25
Lunch: London Broil, Baked Had
dock, Meat Ball Sandiwcb; Dinner: 
Flounder Almondine. Spaghetti/Meat 
Sauce, Spaghetti/Sauce
FRI
1/25
Lunch: Hot Turkey Sandwich, Beans 
& Franks, Ratatouille; Dinner Fish 
Almonidine, Roast Beef Au Jus, 
Roman Rice & Beans
SAT
1/26
Lunch: Hash Browns/Sausage,
Turkey Tetrazzini, Hot Sausage Sand
wich; Dinner: Pizza - Plain/Pepperoni, 
Lentil Barley Stew, Country Style 
Hamburger
NAME:_______________
PHONE:______________
woIeI wnwaIdSl
Lunch Everyday: Hoi & Cold Deli, 
Omelettes to Order, Hamburgers & 
Hot Dogs; Dinner Everyday: Carved 
Turkey or Beef
SUN
1/27
Lunch: Pancakes/Bacon, Tuna Salad 
Pita, Beef & Cheese Quiche; Dinner: 
Short Ribs, Fried Clam Strips, 
Cauliflower Maranca
MakigR
MON
1/28
Lunch: Cold Hoagie, Chicken Chow 
Mein, Pasta Bean Casserole; Dinner: 
Lasagna, Vegetarian Lasagna, Baked
Fish
MON
Lunch Deli Bar, Turkey Tetrazzini 
Dinner: Veal Parmesan. Hamburgei 
Stroganoff, Italian Spinach Tart
entries to Skibo Info Desk by Monday, January 28th, 5 p.m

---------------------------------------------------

POETRYFICTIONESSAYSILLUSTRANO
CO!SEND
literature to
Dossier
c/o The Tartan 
Skibo rm.50
MEET
the Dossier staff 
every Monday night 
7:00 Skibo rm.50
CONFUSED?
call Michele Keane 
at x2111
Deadline for next issue is
January 25,1985
rV* 
% '
Dossier welcomes submissions 
any student enrolled at 
Mellon University. All 
must be typed. Please include 
name, address, and 
number on a separate cover 
only. Due to plagiarism 
anonymous submissions and 
missions under pseudonyms 
be accepted.
All submissions are reviewed W| 
least three staff members, inclu 
the editor, to ensure a 
review of the work.
' . rJAll unpublished submissions ^ 
returned by the end of i 
semester. Acceptance notices^
