Sen. Biden feels power and diplomancy are inseparable
By GAVIN WILLIAMS
Tartan Staffwriter
The topic of Sen. Joseph Bidens (D-Del) Feb. 
14th, Presidents Distinguished Lecture Series 
speech was Terrorism and International 
Politics: New Directions in American Foreign 
Policy, but it was obvious from the start that 
Sen. Biden had other political issues on his 
mind. Bidens began his speech with a discus
sion of why the U.S. has lacked a coherent 
foreign policy and how this was caused, in part, 
by the inevitable changes that occurred after 
the Second World War. He then looked at the 
conflicting foreign policies of the Republicans
and Democrats, both of which he considered 
simplistic and naive. Biden then offered an 
outline of his own foreign policy, which consists 
of setting up two signposts and following four 
main principles. Biden ended his speech with 
a short discussion of world terrorism and how 
the U.S. should deal with the problem.
Sen. Biden, who plans to run for the 1988 
Democratic Presidential nomination, opened his 
speech with a story about a plane he thought 
was being held for him in Boston. It turned out 
the airline (USAir) was under the impression 
they were holding the plane for Senator Ted 
Kennedy, and that if they had known it was for
Biden, would have let it go long before he ar
rived. However, as a candidate for the 
Democratic nomination in 1988, Biden will 
soon be having planes held for him on the 
strength of his own name.
After his opening remarks, Sen. Biden began 
the main part of his speech, which was to center 
more on foreign policy than terrorism, by stating 
that he feels the U.S. has not had a coherent 
foreign policy for at least the past eight or nine 
years. Biden said that in the past three Presiden
tial elections, we have elected two Presidents 
who have had no background or interest in 
foreign policy making. Biden feels that Carter 
and Reagans foreign policy came from two dif
fering perspectives, but that in both cases, they 
were blankslates as far as foreign policy went 
when they entered office. The policies that they 
developed were reactive policies, with dif
ferent reactions by both presidents.
Sen. Biden believes now is the time to make 
continued on page 5
Coach Klausing goes to Pitt
Carnegie Mellon University 
Undergraduate Admissions Data
7000 -rEst. 6450
The Tartan
6000
5000
4000
Applications
3000
2000
1000
0
1985 1986
O Freshman Applications Received as of Feb. 1
The Women: A bitchin" good time 
And the Sexiest Body part is...........
see pullout
.see pg. 27
*3135 :
1984Enrollment tor Fa* o...
I Total Freshman Applications Received
Volume 80, Number 16 Carnegie Mellon University February 18, 1986
T. Boon Pickens talks on oil, crisis management
By JACK L. POLLER
Tartan Photography Editor
Hours after making a $200 million bid for 
KN Energies, the chairman and chief executive 
officer of Mesa Petroleum, T. Boone Pickens, 
lectured at Carnegie Mellon University last 
Wednesday. In an unpublicized visit, Pickens 
lectured to the Crisis Management course given 
by Carnegie Mellons Graduate School of In
dustrial Administration.
i want somebody that still
95wants to makemoney Pickens
Pickens, who was introduced as a 
shareholders advocate, founded Mesa in 1964 
and made it the largest independent gas and 
oil company. According to visiting professor 
Gerald Meyers, Crisis Management course in
structor, Pickens detractors consider him a 
rich, powerful exploiter of other peoples under
valued assets for his own personal gain. 
Meyers, former chief executive officer of 
American Motors Corporation, characterized 
Pickens as a highly visible crisis provoker and 
manager, taking great risks and using unor
thodox methods. Although Pickens was invited
to lecture to the Crisis Management course, he 
graciously donated twenty minutes of his time 
to answering questions from members of the 
visiting press.
Pickens, in his opening remarks, said that he 
does not believe he has all the answers. But he
never evaded or refused to answer a question. 
Commenting on his reputation as both a 
shareholders advocate and as someone out for 
his own good, he said both are correct. I dont 
know anybody thats going to go out and put 
up a million dollars, and their best case would 
be to want to break even.
Pickens stated that he had been right in 1982 
and 1983 when he had said that the oil industry7 
must consolidate in order to survive. Although 
he does not believe that he was the cause of 
the industry changes, he thinks that the industry 
is much stronger now than two or three years 
ago.
Had it [the oil industry] been left alone, to 
proceed in the fashion that it was going, that 
would have been a sad day for the industry. I 
think that we could have looked a lot like the 
steel industry. The changes had to be made 
when the cash was available, and the oil in
dustry. is much better off because of the 
changes.
Pickens said that he did not feel lucky about 
his position during the recent drop in oil prices. 
Instead, he feels he analyzed the situation cor
rectly. Relating his history as a commodities 
trader, Pickens stated the fundamental law of 
supply and demand-when a commodity is in 
abundant supply, the price is low, whereas when 
a commodity is rare, the price is high. He said
the reason for the high oil prices was the OPEC 
oil cartel.
He predicted that 13 countries could not 
band together indefinitely, and that the cartel 
would break sometime in the near future, caus
ing oil prices to drop. According to Pickens, the 
oil industry can still turn a profit at a cost of 
sixteen dollars per barrel of oil. At that cost, 
however, the industry cannot look for nev 
sources of oil. Because of this, the number of 
drilling rigs has fallen over 3000 in the last 4 
years.
Pickens predicted that the availability of crudoil would remain fairly constant in the future. 
In order to see prices rise over a short term 
period of five years, the oil cartel must get back 
together and limit production. However, this 
seems quite unlikely to Pickens.
Pickens said that U. S. Steel is going against 
the grain [in purchasing Marathon Oil). People 
are not out trying to acquire oil and gas reserves 
today in a falling market." Whether or not I 
S. Steel made a mistake will be determined in 
the future.
In explaining his strategy, Pickens stated that 
KN Energies is a small company whose business 
is oil transmission in five states. Mesa holds two 
thirds of its reserves in Kansas, KN Energies" 
home base. According to Pickens, Mesa wants 
continued on page 2
Outgoing coach Klausing and successor Rich Lackner flank athletic director Jim Bonnet 
at the announcement of the coaching change.
Carnegie Mellon lost its most successful 
football coach ever this week when Chuck 
Klausing become assistant head coach 
at the University of Pittsburgh under Mike 
Gottfried.
He will be replaced by Rich Lackner, who 
has been an assistant coach at Carnegie Mellon 
for the past seven years, and a standout Tartan 
Linebacker for four years before that.
See front page of Sports for the complete story.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanFebruary 18, 1986
Bidinotto blames Bhopal tragedy on Indias policies
By MOHAN EMBAR
Tartan Contributing Editor
Journalist Robert James Bidinotto argued that 
the Indian governments economic objectives 
and political ideologies created a breeding 
ground for the Bhopal tragedy
The Bhopal tragedy occurred on December 
3, 1984 at 12:45 a.m. when a cloud of methylisocyanate gas leaked from Union Carbides 
Bhopal plant and descended upon the surroun
ding village. Roughly 2000 people were killed 
by the poisonous vapor. Methyl-isocyanate kills 
by weakening the lungs protective membranes. 
The victim then drowns on his body fluids.
Bidinottos main contention was that the In
dian Governments approach to economy is ex
actly the opposite of the Western laissez-faire 
style of capitalism which allows the free market 
to regulate company policies, operation and out
put. He asserted that India instead adopts a 
more socialistic form of economic control in 
which the profit motive is given a lower priority 
than industrial policy. As a result, the govern
ment introduces a coercive element to 
politically approved private industries.
According to Bidinotto, two stances toward 
the economy taken by the Indian Government 
contributed to the worsening of conditions at 
Bhopal. The government's desires for encourag
ing exports over imports and encouraging 
domestic self-sufficiency allowed situations to 
develop in which those who were in contact with 
advanced foreign technology are unable to ful
ly understand its complexity.
He argued that the Indian Government only 
allows industries to set up operations in India 
if their values are consistent with its policy. He 
also alluded to corruption in the government by 
mentioning that bribery and sweetheart deals 
were rampant. He quoted one source as saying 
if you want to start a business in India, you 
have to bribe the right party.
One prerequisite set forth by the government,
claimed Bidinotto, is that eventually Indians 
must he trained to manage, staff and run all 
India-based businesses. To expedite this, 
western culture must be force-fed to Indian 
workers. Bidinotto expressed concern for this 
philosophy and said Bhopal people were 
capable of operating by rote but could not fully 
appreciate concepts such as preventive 
maintenance. He also stated that the unwill
ingness of companies such as IBM and CocaCola to relinquish control over daily operations 
caused them to leave India.
Since the Bhopal plant was shaped by these 
philosophies, Bidinotto said, it was not a child 
of Western Capitalism, but rather an illegitimate 
offspring of Indian policies.
Bidinotto asserted that the government was 
initially receptive toward building the Bhopal 
plant because it saw the need for pesticides in 
a land that was plagued with famine. It had com
plete control over the design and setup of the 
plant. To produce the pesticide, the plant need
ed to dilute with water a concentrated form call
ed Sevin, which could be imported. However, 
he inferred, the logic of industrial policy re
quired the actual manufacturing of Sevin, a 
chemical that never had to be in India in the 
first place.
In 1971, a plant needed to produce one of 
the chemicals needed to make Sevin was built 
in Bhopal. Bidinotto observed that initial pro
blems in running the plant forced a five-year 
shutdown while $1.5 million in modifications 
were made. He also blamed the logic of selfsufficiency as one of the factors leading to the 
storage of methyl-isocyanate in 15,000 gallon 
containers rather than the safer fifty-five-gallon 
drums which were initially used.
According to Bidinotto, one of the turning 
points in the Bhopal operation came during a 
period when the Indian Government gave loans 
to farmers and relieved local pesticide manufac
turers of the obligation to pay sales tax. Since
these manufacturers could now undersell Union 
Carbide by as much as fifty percent, the out
put and profits of the Union Carbide plant fell. 
More highly-skilled people became depress
ed and left. Methyl-isocyanate plant operators 
who previously held college degrees were 
replaced by those with only a high-school educa
tion. In June 1982, Union Carbide inspectors 
from the United States visited the Bhopal plant 
and wrote a critical report of problems with 
the plant. However, repairs were left to the
Robert Janies Bidinotto on the Bhopal Tragedy.
Bhopal plant managers who gave the U.S. their 
assurances that the problems would be rectified.
Bidinotto concluded his lecture with an over
view of the plants condition immediately before 
the gas leak. He listed the five safety devices 
that were supposed to prevent accidents of this 
sort from happening and pointed out that three 
of these devices had been disabled for 
maintenance reasons and the remaining two fail
ed to operate properly when the gas began to 
leak. He also mentioned that workers eyes 
began to tear and the leakage was noticed as 
early as one hour before the cloud escaped, but 
managers opted instead to take their schedul
ed tea break and discuss the problem. The relief 
valve burst an hour later.
Bidinotto answered questions from the au
dience after his talk. When asked if the Indian 
Governments policies had changed after the incident, he spoke positively about Indian Prime 
Minister Rajiv Gandhis plans. However, he expressed doubts that these changes could be im. 
plemented within the existing framework which 
so strongly reflects past ideologies. One au
dience member pointed out that the Union Carbide Plant in West Virginia also had problems 
with chemical leaks. Bidinotto said these pr0. 
blems were due more to minor equipment problems than to the chain of violations which 
led to the Bhopal incident.
Bidinotto was billed as an award-winning 
journalist in flyers which announced the lec
ture. In 1985, he received the Mencken Award 
in Journalism by the Free Press Association for 
Best Features Story, Essay, or Review. The Free 
Press Association is an organization of jour
nalists and broadcasters concerned with First 
Amendment questions.
Last Fridays one-hour lecture, entitled 
Bhopal: The Real Cause, was the second of five 
lectures sponsored by the CMU Objectivist 
Club. The other four are videotaped. It was 
presented in Adamson Wing at 8 p.m. and 
twenty-nine people attended. In her introduc
tory speech, president Pam Reinagel said the 
purpose of these lectures is to stimulate think
ing by making issues like this available.
The club was started in January with the in
tention of making Objectivist ideas available on 
campus. It currently has about fifteen members. 
Objectivism is a philosophy first proposed by 
authoress Ayn Rand in fictional writings such 
as Atlas Shrugged and The Fountainhead which 
maintains that reason is the gateway to obtain
ing knowledge about the universe.
TUTORS WANTED!
The Counseling Center needs 
Chemistry and Calculus tutors for 
walk-in tutoring.
I  >
Pays $3.50/hr. 
Call the Counseling Center
X2922
SUMMER PROGRAMS OFFERED BY 
CARNEGIE MELLON
"PARIS 1986" 
"GERMANY 1986" 
"MEXICO 1986"
What are you doing this summer? Why not make it a European or Mexican 
summer?
Join us for three weeks on the CMU Campus and four weeks in Europe or 
Mexico developing your communication skills in French, German, or Spanish.
Intensive language instruction, excellent teachers, for beginning and in
termediate students.
Full day program, five days a week, for three weeks in June in Pittsburgh. 12 
units, $850. Continental breakfast and lunch included.
French program at Institut Catholique in Paris for 4 weeks (July 1-31).
German program at Goethe Institute in Rothenburg for 4 weeks (July 7-August 1). 
Spanish program at University of Guanajuato, Mexico (June 25-Julv 25).
Each overseas program. 18 units. 81.250. Includes tuition, room and board, and
excursions.
Students may enroll in either the Pittsburgh or European programs independently.
Make this a special summer. Write or call us for details. Modern Languages. Carnegie 
Mellon University. Pittsburgh. PA 15213. (412) 268-2881.
Deadline for application April 1.

---------------------------------------------------

February 18, 1986The TartanPage 3
Pickens emphasizes need for fresh, young minds in
continued from page 1
to have access to KN Energies transmission 
system.
Pickens was surprised to learn, after a 
January 22 phone call, that KN Energies was 
not willing to listen to what Pickens had to say. 
Eventually, Pickens made a direct offer of $22 
per share in cash for 100% of the company. 
KN Energies immediately started to take defen
sive measures against what it considers a hostile 
takeover bid. According to Pickens, that is when 
the leaks started from KN Energies investment 
bankers.
I called, tried to tell the president of the 
company that he had leaks coming out of the 
back door, but he would not take the call." So 
Pickens made his offer public. When Pickens 
made his original offer on January 22, KN
By JAMES MEACHAM
Tartan Staffivriter
Has OPEC, the Organization of Petroleum 
Exporting Countries, finally cracked? The re
cent plunge in oil prices seems to suggest that 
this once powerful cartel has begun to 
deteriorate. In the 1970s, OPEC was very suc
cessful in raising the cost of world oil prices, 
which caused an energy cruch felt world-wide, 
causing a world-wide energy crunch while ear
ning enormous profits for its member countries. 
Now that the world has cut back on consump
tion of oil, it seems as though OPEC is making 
an attempt to regain its hold on the market 
through increasing production and lowering 
prices.
Whatever the motivation, this decline in prices 
has far reaching effects. Here in America, the 
lower oil prices have spurred a rally in the stock 
market, pushing the Dow Jones Industrial 
Average (as well as other indicies) to new hights. 
This is due to the economic benefits of cheaper 
oil, namely decreased production and energy
Energies' stock was selling at under $16 per 
share. Now it is over $20 per share.
Although Pickens does not consider his offer 
as a hostile takeover bid. he said that KN 
Energies started looking for a way out of the 
offer immediately after his January 22 
telephone call.
Out of circulation for approximately six 
months, the press is heralding Pickens offer for 
KN Energies as his comeback into the takeover 
market. Right after the Unical deal, I went thir
ty days, and I had people asking me if I was 
retired." Pickens claims that during the in
terlude, he was cleaning his desk off.
Meyers then interceded to start the academic 
portion of Pickens talk. Pickens was asked to 
discuss the Mesa-Gulf-Chevron episodes in 
terms of crisis management. Pickens gave a
costs, which spurn higher productivity and 
profits.
All American corporations arent benefiting 
from the recent fall in prices, however. The 
worst hit are, of course, the oil companies 
themselves, as they are forced to lower their 
prices to remain competitive. The value of the 
reserves these companies own have been 
lowered drastically, putting more downward 
pressure on their stocks and bonds. Many in
vestors were caught by surprise and saw the 
value of their investments plunge with the price 
of oil. A notable example is the CMU Invest
ment group, as it watched its bonds in the Petro 
Lewis Corporation fall from near sixty to a low 
of fourty, a hefty decline indeed.
On the world market, gold has eased higher 
as countries put their trust in gold rather than 
the world banking structure. Some banks are 
being weakened as oil revenue dependent coun
tries, such as Mexico, struggle to pay their 
debts. Other countries are involved as well. 
Russia, the single largest oil producer in the
brief history of the situation, starting with the 
formation of Mesa Limited.
Pickens formed Mesa Limited in order to 
raise capital to invest in Gulf Oil. He felt that 
Gulfs stock was undervalued, and that there 
was a way to make more money for gulf 
shareholders. Pickens, through Mesa Ltd., 
bought 13% of Gulf stock.
Pickens approached Gulf with a proposal for 
a royalty trust, where Gulf would spin-off some 
of its excess capital to the stockholders. Gulf 
became instantly defensive, and tried desperate
ly to fight against Pickens, instead of working 
with him.
Eventually, Gulf offered Pickens green
mail. A proposal to buy out only Mesa Ltd. 
at much more than Mesas holdings were worth. 
Pickens refused, so Gulf turned for help, and
recapture market
world, will have to look for a way of recovering 
the loss in revenue it normally receives through 
oil sales.
Overall, the fall in oil prices should continue 
to be an impetus to the American economy, 
unless the Congress should decide to place a 
tax on imported oil. This would tend to erase 
any effects of lower oil prices. The road ahead 
looks rocky for OPEC and other nations depen
dent on oil, but the possibilities are endless for 
the American economy.
300 throw snowballs
A snowball fight, started by a few University 
of Illinois students, got out of hand when near
ly 300 others joined in. The crowd went on a 
three-hour rampage, breaking car windows and 
mirrors, and overturning a van. Damages may 
reach $5,000. The university police say the 
students were taking out their frustrations over 
final exams.
management
was bought by Chevron for $13.2 billion.
In discussion with the crisis management 
class, Pickens was asked to give advice on com
pany management. He responded, You have 
got to have a kind of free-flowing company. 
He emphasized the need for fresh, young minds 
in company management. I want somebody 
that still wants to make money.
Shuttle and Escort Service
By LESLIE FRANK
Special to The Tartan
Shuttle and Escort are both free transporta
tion services for students based in the lower 
level entrance to Skibo (the one facing Forbes). 
Shuttle runs on a set schedule and route serv
ing Mellon Institute, Shirley Apartments. Hamp
shire Hall, Tudor/Carol Apartments, the SEI 
(the current offices near S. Aiken and Center), 
and all Clyde Street apartment buildings.
Leaving Skibo for the first run at 6:40 a.m, 
shuttle departs every 20 minutes through 9:20 
a.m. Beginning again at 10:40 a.m., shuttle 
departs every 40 minutes through 3:20 p.m. 
All runs are on the route order above (Mellon 
Institute first, Clyde Street last through the 3:20 
p.m. departure). For the late afternoon hours, 
the shuttle route is split in two: Shuttle #1 
departs every 20 minutes beginning at 4:30, 
making stops at Mellon Institute, Shirley Apart
ments, and Morewood Parking Lot; Shuttle #2 
departs every half hour beginning at 4:00. It 
stops at Clyde Street, Hampshire Hall, 
Tudor/Carol Apartments, and the SEI (S. Aiken 
and Center) in order. The last runs before the 
dinner break are at 5:50 and 5:30 p.m. respec
tively. From 6:00 to 6:30 p.m., there are no 
transportation services.
continued on page 4
OPEC lowers prices, pumps more to
Benjamin Olender Foundation for the Furtherance of Jewish Education
Telephone. 521-37185608 PHILLIPS AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15217
PRESIDENT
JACK H OLENDER
DIRECTOR
RABBI MEIR GOLDWASSER
JEWISH STUDENTS
We Invite You To Participate
BOARD OF ADVISORS
STANLEY GREENFIELD. Esq 
Professor of Law Duquesne University
DR HERSHEL MARKOVITZ 
Professor of Mechanics and Polymer 
Sciences. Carnegie Mellon University
DR. JEROME ROSENBERG 
Dean. Faculty of Arts and Sciences. 
University of Pittsburgh
in
TWO CLASSES
 Think Jewish: This course will 
give participants an intensive basis in 
the fundamentals of Jewish Philosophy, 
Topics will include: Does Judaism leave 
room for personal creativity? Does G-d 
actually concern himself with what's 
happening with us? What is the 
mystique of the Jewish soul?
This class will be held Monday evenings from 
6:30-7:15.
 Torah Eternal: This course will 
deal with the relevance of the Torah to 
today's modern society. Focus will be 
on each current weekly Torah portion 
read in the synagogue.
This class will be held Wednesday evenings from 
6:45-7:30.
Classes are free of charge and will be held on campus.
Everyone interested should please 
contact our office at 521-3718.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanFebruary 18, 1986
CMU teaches English as a second languagefree
By NATALIE CAPONE
Tartan Stajfwriter
The difficulties with the English language that 
many foreign students have when they come to 
Carnegie Mellon have prompted the Carnegie 
Mellon Teaching Center to develop the English 
as a Second Language (ESL) Center.
The ESL Center, which has been in opera
tion since August, 1985, offers free individual 
tutoring and language classes to non-native 
speakers of English at Carnegie Mellon. Accor
ding to Tom Huckin, Director of ESL, approx
imately ten percent of the Carnegie Mellon stu
dent population is foreign,, a percentage which 
translates to almost 550 students. At least half 
of these students are studying at the graduate 
level.
Although the Administration had perceived 
a need for some sort of ESL program after 
observing the difficulties that foreign students 
have, particularly during their first year in 
America, it is the added dimension of foreign 
Teaching Assistants that was the motivation for 
creating the ESL Center.
Huckin said that there are many foreign 
graduate students who work as T.A.s. Some," 
Huckin said, although good in technical skills, 
have trouble with communication. This was the 
major problem which stimulated the formation 
of the ESL Center. It is not a matter of the 
students not having had previous exposure to 
the English language: Most of the students 
have had formal instruction in English, even as 
much as eight to ten years. But they didn't have 
a chance to speak or hear it spoken, Huckin 
explained.
The heart of the ESL program is the free in
dividual tutoring service that is offered on an 
appointment schedule. All foreign students are 
entitled to free 40-minute tutoring sessions
every7 week. This is an intensive, highly in
dividualized instruction that is on a private oneto-one level. It is very effective, said Huckin. 
The tutoring sessions consist of lots of conver
sation between student and tutor, with the tutor 
correcting language-related problems that 
emerge naturally while speaking.
The second part of the ESL program is sixweek long classes which focus on various areas 
such as speaking and listening, pronunciation, 
writing and grammar, and a T.A. preparation 
course. Presently the T.A. course is taught on
ly to potential T.A.s in the Math department, 
but hopefully the scope of the program will soon 
be able to branch out. Huckin emphasized that 
the classes are not drilling, but instead con
sist of communication activities with a great 
deal of interaction. The small class size of 10 
to 20 students lends itself to this interaction. 
The new six-week session of the classes will
continued from page 3
At 6:30 p.m., one shuttle and one escort 
driver come on duty. The shuttle leaves every 
half hour and runs the entire route, Clyde Street 
stops first. The last shuttle departure is at 11:30 
p.m., but another escort driver comes on duty 
at that time.
If you need a ride from Skibo to your offcampus residence which isnt on the shuttle 
route, escort just might be the way. Your 
destination does have to be within the predeter
mined bounds, however. Escort service is 
limited to a radius of on to one-and-a-half miles 
around campus, and it will not take large groups 
of people to parties. For the sake of time, escort 
does not take riders to movie theaters or bars, 
either. Escort usually has as many requests as 
it can handle for individual campus-to-residence 
escorts alone.
How do you request an escort? Just walk inbegin after mid-semester.
The ESL Center is staffed by five graduate 
students and three undergraduate students, all 
of whom are American. 75 foreign students 
have participated in the program. Although the 
program is available to all foreign students, the 
center has only been used by East Asian and 
European students so far.
It is Huckins hope that the foreign student 
population of Carnegie Mellon will become 
aware of the existence of the ESL Center and 
take advantage of its free services.
The ESL Tutoring Center is located in the 
Bureau of Mines, Room A19, Monday through 
Thursday: 9am to 6pm, and Friday: 9am to 
5pm; and in Baker Hall 228A Sunday through 
Thursday: 7pm to 9pm. For more information 
about the available classes, or to schedule a 
tutoring appointment, call 268-4979.
to Skibos lower level entrance and talk to the 
dispatcher. He or she is the one sitting at the 
desk next to the art store. After the shuttles last 
departure at 11:30 p.m., escort will pick peo
ple up at off-campus university housing areas 
and bring them back to Skibo. To request such 
a pick-up, dial 268-2333. An estimated waiting 
time will be given, usually not more than fif
teen minutes after the call was place.
The last escort pick-up call is accepted at ap
proximately 2:15 a.m., and the last escort bus 
leaves at 3:25 a.m.
For more information, including times for offcampus stops, contact the campus security of
fice or stop by the escort dispatch desk after 
6:30 p.m. (The most recent printed schedule 
is now out of date. The shuttle now runs on the 
same schedule seven days a week. After 6:00 
p.m., the schedule is the same as the most re
cent weekend schedule.)
Nude Olympics 
Dangerous at 50 below
The president of Purdue University, who was 
one of thousands of spectators at last years an
nual Nude Olympics, has turned on the cold 
water for this years event.
Besides violating nudity laws, the endurance 
race, in which students take a midnight romp 
in the buff through campus, could result in 
lasting injuries, says President Steven Beering, 
who is also a physician.
When youve go 300 people running around 
start naked at minus 50 degrees (the wind chill 
during the last race), you run the major risk of 
frostbite and losing tips of noses, fingers, 
genitalia, breasts, toes and so on.
A committee Beering appointed to study the 
matter says the event had gone beyond being 
just an innocent bit of fun and frolic, and wor
ried that allowing students to expose themselves 
in sub-zero weather could expose the universi
ty to personal injury lawsuits.
While insisting that safety was his overriding 
concern in his decision, Beering said he also 
was mindful of public relations.
The Nude Olympics, he says, suggests an im
maturity on the part of the students and an un
caring attitude within the schools 
administration.
What started as a prank by a few male 
students during the 1950s has become a fullfledged spectacle, involving both sexes.
Some members of Purdues student govern
ment have questioned the ruling, as has the 
campus newspaper.
Its the one thing a lot of students see as a 
Purdue tradition  one thing that sets Purdue 
apart, says Ginger Thompson, managing editor 
of the Purdue Exponent. Im not sure theyre 
going to really be able to stop it.
Information on Shuttle, Escort
fflitu of S,"sbur9l)
MMimaKNTOF nauc amtv
JOHN JC ROMS NORTON
"SNEAKY"
Description: White Male
Oriental Features
Height:
'.Jelght:
Hair:
Age:
5'6" to 5'r
150-170 
Medlua Build 
with Pot Belly
Dark Brown/Black 
Soft, Longer 
than Average
25-30
Se n.B idd fls pdow.l 
rammalc ybaw CdldohK 
udwgoatma.l P
DIAL 2-1-1
0d Sw tywTED Ts 
p.Kagd r.o 
WBdwma.lalc fw f 
iBwtdgm al 
id:dohK Ahtdw"
If tou Have Any Further Infomation, Call
0.JIKVUAnswers 24 Hours
Public Safety Building P. O. Box 046Wn*tui#>.PA. 15230-0948
ennixjlfeania
RAPE SUSPECT
CMU Gay and Lesbian Alliance 
Presents:
//The Life and Times of 
Harvey Milk"
Sunday February 23, 1986 
7:00 p.m.
Porter Hall 225C
All are welcome
For more information about CMU GALA 
please send your reply to:
CMU GALA 
P.O. Box 172 
Baker Hall
Funded by Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

February 18, 1986The TartanPage 5
Biden: The World is complicated as hell.
continued from page 1
improvements in U.S. foreign policy, because 
we have come to a point in the 1980s were 
there are a number of important issues that must 
be considered. These issues are the conse
quence of changing times and a changing world. 
Biden sees the reasons for this changing world 
as being the creation of 105 brand new nations 
beginning in 1968, the disarray of World 
monetary' systems that began in the 1970s and 
the change in appeal of Marxist doctrines, which 
influenced the relative strengths of the leading 
world powers.
Sen. Biden sees the changes as a conse
quence of the inevitable movement and tides 
of U.S. and World history. Using tag-team 
wrestling as a metaphor for the U.S.s position 
in the world after WWII, Biden contends that 
although Great Britain, France and the USSR 
won in the war, we were left standing as the 
preeminent power in the world. Our foreign 
policy after the war was one influenced by the 
fact that we did have all the power, that we were 
the only guy on the block.
However, Biden asserts that changes in the 
power of other nations was inevitable. It was in
evitable that our enemies would become our 
trading partners and that our allies (namely the 
USSR) would gain power and become our 
enemies. These changes lead to a fundamen
tally different world in 1986, one in which 
Biden feels the U.S. cannot solely rely on 
military might and in which we should address 
the issue of relative power among nations. 
He sees no time in the future were one nation 
(i.e. the U.S.) will be the predominant power 
in the world. There will never be another war 
in which one nation can come out as the clear 
victor. Biden believes our present conduct of 
foreign policy is a naive quest for the time 
when U.S. military might could alter the course 
of the world. Biden wonders if it is a laudable 
goal for the U.S. to seek and maintain an over
whelming military superiority.
On the opposite side of the American political 
spectrum (the Democrats), Biden feels a totally 
different policy has arisen, one in which military 
power is not considered effective. Biden sees 
the U.S. public as believing the Democrats feel 
the U.S. is a crippled giant and should not con
sidered projection of force anywhere in the 
world. The Democrats on the Left use im
aginative diplomacy in conducting their foreign 
policy. Imaginative diplomacy is founded on the 
belief that in every Third world nation, there 
is a democratic middle ground. Biden believes 
that the conflicting Democratic imaginative 
diplomacy and the Republican militaristic 
Cold War warrior " views are both extremely 
naive and have proven ineffective.
The solution to this conflict, Biden feels, is 
the realization that power and diplomacy are in
separable. He contends that Power without 
purpose leads to little more than posture and 
that Diplomacy without power exhausts itself 
on rhetoric. This combination must take place, 
Biden believes, for we are not only on the verge 
of loosing our control in limiting nuclear arms, 
but are also living in a significant time in the 
conduct of human affairs. The conflicts in the 
Middle East, Central America, Black Africa and 
the movement of China into the modern world 
must be met with effective foreign policy.
Sen. Biden offered an outline for this foreign 
policy, which consisted of erecting signposts and 
following four basic principles. The two 
signposts are that we should not return to the 
policies of the Cold War era and that we should 
shed the stigma we have towards our Vietnam 
policy. Biden sees power as making a signifi
cant difference in our position in the world, not 
as a source of weakness that many Democrats 
felt it was.
The first of Bidens four principles in conduc
ting U.S. foreign policy is one that makes the 
Cold War Warriors mildly happy, and says
military power is important. Developing a pari
ty (but not superiority) with the USSR is an 
essential component of an effective and balanc
ed policy.
Bidens second principle is that the U.S. 
government must better define and articulate 
what its actual foreign policy is to the American 
people. As seen from the Vietnam War, foreign 
policy cannot be sustained without the support 
of the American people. Biden sees this as be
ing one of the drawbacks with democracy. The
U.S. must still decide what constitutes our in
terests, before any interests can actually be ar
ticulated to the U.S. public.
The third principle is the development of 
regimes of cooperation in areas like the environ
ment, nuclear arms and conventional forces with 
the USSR. Although Biden feels the USSR are 
the bad guys and that all the bad things said 
about the USSR are true, he also believes we 
cannot afford to treat the Soviet as if it did not 
exist. The problem with present policy making 
towards the Soviets is that it is influenced by 
an implicit feeling that they always outsmart 
us. Because of this, we avoid engaging in 
dialogue with the Soviets. Biden, again using 
history in analyzing policy directions, feels not 
much has changed in Russian foreign policy 
from the Czar to the Commissar. He sees the 
Soviets as being conservative, cautious and 
predictable.
This predictability could be used by the U.S. 
to find a way to achieve benefits by granting 
the Soviets benefits. It is obviously in the in
terests of both the USSR and the U.S. to pre
vent the proliferation of nuclear war-making 
capabilities. Both sides fear that a Third World 
nation will obtain nuclear power and use it to 
start a full-scale nuclear conflict. In fact the risk 
of a small power initiating a war is much greater 
than the USSR or the U.S. beginning one. With 
regimes of Cooperation, Biden feels both powers 
could deal with this problem and others more 
effectively.
The fourth and final principle in Bidens 
outline of an effective U.S. foreign policy is that 
we should develop a much more sophisticated 
view of the Third World. He feels we cannot 
continue to view the Third World in absolute 
terms, such as the good vs. the bad guys, or 
totalitarian vs. authoritarian powers. Biden 
points to both the Carter and Reagan ad
ministrations as examples where Third World 
policy was governed by a single factor. With 
Carter it was the human rights issue and with 
Reagan it is whether or not the governments are 
Marxist or Capitalist. Biden believes these fac
tors should be considered, but also feels other 
issues are involved and that none should have 
absolute control.
Sen. Biden argued that we should not expect 
the Third World countries that have just been 
created to have a clear idea of their directions. 
It took the Western world centuries to arrive 
at the place we are at now. Turmoil and con
flict will be an inevitable part of the develop
ment of these countries, and Biden feels the 
position of the U.S. should be one of nonalignment, because as he stated, the World 
is complicated as hell. We should considered 
not only human rights, but should also be con
cerned with the relationship of the Third World 
with other World powers. In this way, our Third 
continued on page 6
BEFORE COLLEGE... THERE IS PRE-COLLEGE
0
Relive the experience as a 
counselor for the 1986 Pre-College 
Program at CMU this Summer.
Applications and Information 
Packets can be picked up at the 
Housing Office in the Morewood 
Gardens A-Tower.
Applictions must be returned to 
the Housing Office by Friday, 
February 28th.
You will need to sign-up for a per
sonal interview at that time.
If you have any questions, please 
feel free to contact the Housing 
Office at X2139.
Jewish Hotline To Go On The Air
A new half-hour radio program will begin on 
Sunday morning 11:30 on WRCT 88.3 FM
This program will feature interviews with leading 
Israeli government officials, Jewish music, and a 
segment on Jewish studies.
Hosting the show will be Rabbi Meir Goldwasser, 
director of the Benjamin Olender Foundation for 
the Furtherance of Jewish Education, sponsor of 
this program.
WRCT is funded by Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanFebruary 18, 1986
Murder and corruption mar Phillippine election
By GAVIN WILLIAMS
Tartan Stqffwriter
The fraud and corruption that was expected 
in the Philippine Presidential elections held last 
Friday, Feb. 7th, between President Ferdinand 
Marcos and Mrs. Corazon Aquino, appeared 
early. Charges came from the National Move
ment for Free Elections (NAMFREL), an in
dependent Filipino poll-watching group, that ar
my troops and Marcos workers went door to 
door in Manila, on the night of Thursday the 
6th. forcing or bribing voters to fill out ballot 
slips.
With the opening of the {lolls at 7 AM, signs 
of corruption and intimidation were immediately 
seen. The Philippine electorate of 26 million 
is situated in voting precincts that spread over
7.000 islands, making the widespread corrup
tion hard to control.
A 20-member, U.S. commission headed by 
Sen. Richard Lugar (R-Ind.) was present dur
ing the elections and attempted to monitor 
voting procedures. Members of the commission 
were allowed to enter the polling places, 
escorted by a commission official, after a rul
ing forbidding observors from getting closer 
than 50 feet to the polling place was modified 
for them.
The observors reported harrassment of NAM
FREL pollwatchers by the military , who had 
been deployed by Marcos to keep order. 
Priests and nuns sat on ballot boxes, defending 
them with their bodies from Marcos workers 
who tried to steal them, often at gun-point. Ballot 
stuffing and bribery of voters was widespread. 
Such tactics have been commonplace in past 
Philippine elections and motivated a pollwatcher to state, What we like to say is that 
if the voting is only fairly dirtv, the result will 
be honest.
As the ballot counting began, both Marcos 
and Aquino predicted victory7. These predictions
were based on slow and conflicting returns the 
night of the 7th. Sen. Lugar stated, Given this 
counting business, its awfully difficult to make 
heads or tails. Members of the commission 
were disturbed by the pattern of voting and were 
certain of abuses. In conjunction with an official 
count of the votes, NAMFREL began an in
dependent tally which showed Mrs. Aquino 
leading the night of the 7th, with only a small 
number of the votes in. The Marcos government 
threatened to halt the NAMFREL count.
By the end of election day, the rampant 
violence had taken its toll. Scores of NAMFRELs 500,000 workers were forced to leave 
their posts because of harassment from arm
ed thugs. At least 46 people were killed on 
election day itself. Fifteen Aquino supporters 
riding to vote in Manila were killed when a 
grenade was thrown into their truck. Most of 
the dead were Aquino supporters or opposition 
leaders, although one Marcos official was shot 
while going to monitor the polls.
On Saturday, the 8th, Aquino held a lead over 
Marcos in all the different tallies of the votes. 
The official tally, made by the nine-member 
Commission on Elections, appointed by Mar
cos, reported Aquino had an edge of 2,932 
votes, after 3% of the vote was counted. NAMFRELs unofficial tally, which is endorsed by 
U.S. officials and the Roman Catholic Church, 
put Aquino ahead by 2,276,466 votes to Mar
cos's 1,638,439. The vote-counting continued 
slowly and drew protests of election 
irregularities.
The first indications that Marcos might sus
pend the election also came on Saturday, when 
he announced the possibility of declaring the 
election invalid, and that he may reschedule it. 
Aquino and her supporters also expressed their 
concern that if they did win the election, fierce 
retribution would be met out by Marcos in the 
form of assassinations. The vote tally in the
Commission on Elections began moving in Mar
coss favor, while NAMFRELs count showed 
a continuing lead for Aquino.
Sen. Richard Lugar, on Sunday, the 9th, 
charged Marcos with manipulating results and 
that this would affect U.S.-Philippine relations. 
Lugar said, My feeling is that the count is be
ing managed, manipulated. Despite the fact 
that the outcome is still unclear, by Sunday, 
Filipinos from both parties believed Marcos was 
planning to stay in power, no matter what hap
pened. Marcos seemed to affirm this in an in
terview on Sunday when he stated, pulling out 
has never been one of the ideas I have con
sidered.
It was obvious by Sunday that the Reagan ad
ministration faced a difficult policy decision 
toward the Philippines if Marcos fraudulently 
stayed in power. An official decision of the situa
tion was postponed until Sen. Lugars commis
sion returned and reported on the election. The 
White House prohibited public discussion of the 
election by Administration officials until a deci
sion could be made using the Commisions 
findings.
On Monday, the 10th, Marcos moved the 
count of the votes to the National Assembly (the 
ruling body of the Philippines, dominated by
Marcos backers), from the Commission on Elec
tions. The already slow moving counting of the 
ballots was further bogged down in the 
Assembly, because of various legal complica
tions in the system. The count has been going 
on for the past week, with continued debating 
over procedures for the official counting of the 
ballots slowing down the process.
Because of conflicts in the counting of ballots, 
both candidates claimed they had officially won 
by Tuesday, the 11th. The possibility that Mar
cos and Aquino would swear themselves in 
separately to head two competing regimes also 
arose. At the same time, Aquinos party pro
tested the electoral fraud and violence that was 
continuing in the election. Mrs. Aquino label
ed the election as one of the most shameful 
electoral frauds ever perpetrated against a peo
ple in the name of democracy. Marcos called 
her protests, Childish.
At the beginning of the week, President 
Reagan did not hold a firm judgment on the 
reports of fraud by Aquino supporters. Reagan 
called on both sides to work together to form 
a viable government and spoke about 
evidence of a strong two-party system now in 
the islands. Although Reagan said he would 
continued on page 7
Biden warns against Rambo tendency
continued from page 5
World policy will be more sophisticated and will 
accomplish more than the policies of the past
10 years.
Sen. Biden turned next to a short discussion 
of terrorism and how it worked into the U.S.s 
foreign policy. He also saw terrorism as a very 
complex situation, and feels the U.S. must 
outline what constitutes terrorisms. We must 
also stop talking about terrorism in a flawed con
text, with the USSR being the route of all ter
rorism. Biden feels we must realize that ter
rorism has a life of its own and that we should 
give up the Rambo tendency of hastily pro
nouncing retaliation no matter what the conse
quences are.#.4*. ^
In closing, Sen. Biden reiterated his belief that 
the conduct of foreign policy is not simplistic 
and stressed his belief that decisions made now 
will lock us on a single path for the next 10 or 
15 years.
OUR SCHOLARSHIP HELPS YOU BEGIN YOUR CAREER AS A LEADING ENGINEER.
An engineering degree will take you far in today 's 
high-tech Army. And with an Army ROTC scholarship, 
earning that degree can be both less expensive and more 
valuable
The scholarship not only pays your entire tuirion, 
regardless of the amount, but also required fees, an amount 
for books and supplies, and up to $1,000 each school year 
for living expenses
Its an excellent scholarship. And it gets you a lot 
more than an engineering degree. Along with your regular 
courses, you 11 take Army ROTC classes and learn about
; confident,
. In short.
you'll learn leadership and management skills that can t 
help but enhance your opportunities in the future.
And youll put your skills to work right away, 
because you're commissioned in the Army as a second 
lieutenant when you graduate.
If you'd like an education in leadership and manage
ment to go along with your engineering degree, find 
out more about Army ROTC. Contact your Professor of 
Military Science.
ARMY ROTC. BEALLYOUCANBE.
Our three-year and 
two-year scholarships wont 
make college easier. 
Just easier to pay for.
Even if you didnt start college on a scholarship, you 
could finish on one. Army ROTC Scholarships 
pay for full tuition and allowances for educational 
fees and textbooks. Along with up to $1,000 
a year. Get all the facts. BE ALL YOU CAN BE.
ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS

---------------------------------------------------

February 18. 1986The TartanPage 7
Marcos Wins
continued from page 6
comment on the Administrations position after 
consulting with Sen. Lugar, spokesmen for the 
White House made statements which indicated 
Marcos had won the election. These and later 
statements angered Aquino and her supporters, 
for they seemed to indicate U.S. support of 
Marcos.
Violence continued throughout the Philip
pines during the week after the elections. Kill
ings have been carried out to suppress political 
opposition. The most serious of these killings 
came on Tuesday, the 11th, when Evelio Javier, 
a leading member of the opposition, was gunn
ed down by masked gunmen in San Jose de 
Buenavista. Javier was an outspoken critic of 
Marcoss government and was a leader of 
Aquinos campaign in San Jose de Buenavista.
On the same day as Javiers killing, President 
Reagan announced he was sending a special en
voy, Philip C. Habib to the Philippines. Habibs 
purpose was to assess the desires and needs 
of the Filipino people and so help the Ad
ministration develop a clearer stance on the 
Philippine election.
On Wednesday, the 12th, the Reagan ad
ministration moved to end the confusion among 
Filipino citizens and Aquinos party created by 
Reagans statements about the election. Aquino 
was alarmed by Reagans belief that both 
sides were involved in the election fraud and 
violence. She saw Reagan as backing Marcos. 
President Reagan instructed the U.S. Am
bassador in Manila to give Mrs. Aquino
ByGAVI
assurance that Reagan did not completely belief 
Marcos had won the election and that a final 
decision still had to be made. Members of the 
Senate were also critical of Reagans statements 
and obvious stance in regard to who had won 
the election.
President Reagan most recently recanted his 
controversial comments by announcing Satur
day that he felt Marcos was solely to blame for 
the corruption in the election. On the same day, 
the Philippine National Assembly announced 
that Marcos has won the election with about 
53% of the vote. Mrs. Aquino felt this 
fraudulent victory would hurt Marcos, for he will 
lose the support of virtually every Philippine and 
the United States.
Minutes of the Student Senate, February 11, 1986
.Meeting called to order 7:05. Present: Appelbaum, Ayre, Bollinger, Bram. Cohen, Flynn, Frank. Greenberg A, Greenberg M, Hausman, Hynes, Jagerski, 
Kaplan. Kornbrek, Lee A. Lonsky, McDonnell, Mukherjee, Murphy, Noesen, Novak, Patnaik. Rocher, Salomon, Taylor, Trampel, Welsh, Why sei. Absent: 
Giles(excused), Sheinfeld, Planchettel. Audience Participation: Rich Miller, an MS victim and CMU student, explained to Student Senate what MS is and 
what it is like to have the disease. SDC: Applications are being accepted for special interest housing. Class Clubs: CC is sponsoring an ice skating party 
on March 6 to raise money for MS. Academic Affairs: The Academic Affairs Committee would like any suggestions for, or comments on the Federated 
Learning Communities. Senate and the Computer Club are sponsoring a 'Dont Panic Session which will familiarize students with Kermit and Scribe. Cam
pus Affairs: The efficiency of faculty advisors of CIT and MCS will be looked in to. Funding & Recognition: The College Republicans and the Objectivist 
Club recieved non-funded recognition. The Law Club was granted funded recognition and had its budget of $381.00 passed as well. The Ultimate Frisbee 
Club was granted $117.00 to go to a captains meeting in Phila. WRCT was granted an amount not to exceed $800.00 to attend an IBS convention in NYC. 
Public Relations: There will be a Senate happy hour in Scotland Yard on Friday Feb. 28 starting at 4:30. Public Relations is arranging an exchange between 
CMU Senate and Pitt student government. Meeting Adjourned 8:10.
What do you Chink of shuttle and escort? please let us know by answering a few questions, theng 
jraise. criticize or express your indifference in the space provided.
1. Do you ride escort? v n
a. If no. why not?
(Check all that apply.)
__No need.
Had to wait longer than dispatchers 
estimated departure time from Skibo.
 Had to wait longer than estimated 
time for pick-up from off campus 
(by dispatcher)*
c. If yes...
How often do you use escort?
__1-2 times/week
_3-5 times/week
_6-10 times/week
_11-13 times/week
 14 or more times/week
Whats your opinion of escort service?
(Check all that apply.)
 No complaints
 Often have to wait longer than 
estimated departure time from Skibo.
Often have to wait longer than dispatcher 
estimated time for pick-up from off campus* 
Other
*Escort only picks up from off campus 
University housing and only after 11:30 p.m.
shuttle? y n
b. If 110. why not?
(Check all that apply.)
_ No need.
_ Usually too crowded to board at 
(please fill in time(s))
_ No stop near desired off-campus destination(s). 
_Other
_ Doesn't run on schedule 
_ Don't know when and where shuttle runs.
 Other
d. If yes.
How often do you use shuttle?
 1-2 times/week 
_ 3-5 times/week
_6-10 times/week
_11-13 times/week
 14 or more times/week
What's your opinion of shuttle serv ice? 
(Check all that apply.)
_ No complaints
 Often too crowded to board at 
(please fill in time(s)).
_ Nearest shuttle stop is far from final 
off campus destination
 Doesnt run on schedule
 Printed schedule and route, along with changes 
in these, are not readily available
 Other
2. Which of the following best classifies where you live? (Circle one.)1. on campus2. Squirrel Hill3. Shadyside4. Oakland
Please print the closest street intersection:
________________and_________.______
3. If there were a walking escort between buildings on campus, would you use it? y
4. Do you feel safe with your current mode of transportation on and off capinus? v 
Any suggestions for shuttle or escort? Please write them below.
Please return this survey to the Info Desk by Tuesday, February 25. 
Survey by Student Senate, SDC, and Escort Service.
As itt ?
Help fight MS.
Join SDC and "The Time'
at the
Rock-Alike Airband'
March 1
Sunday thru thursday 7pm10pm
CalculusPH-126A
Pm 1,1.
PhysicsPH -1266
ChemistryPH -225S
EngfchasaBN -1356
second language
EconomicsPH - 2266
intro vo C/OmpunngWEH-5415
Financial AccountingPH-226C
Academic Writing ProblemBH -2356
I

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial&
Carnegie salutes Carnegie 
versus campus events
Staging a show like Carnegie salutes Carnegie featur
ing stars like Andy Williams, Jerry Lewis, Barbara 
Feldon, Charles Hade and others is a classy way to kick 
off a capital campaign. It is soft sell, but attractive to 
alumni and the media. The question is, however, is it 
attractive to students. The answer seems to be no.
So theres going to be a show in the Civic Arena and 
there are going to be lots of big names there. OK. But 
what are we really going to see? With the exception of 
Jerry Lewis and Andy Williams, all of the performers 
will be Carnegie Mellon students or alumni who will 
entertain us with their diverse artistic abilities. This is 
simply an opportunity for us to enjoy the talents of 
Carnegie Mellon students and graduates, and appreciate 
the schools contributions to the world of entertainment 
in particular, and to the world in general.
The setting for this gala event will be the Civic Arena. 
A section of seats will be removed and a stage will be 
inserted into one side of the Arena and tables for ten 
will be set-up on the floor. This seating will be sold to 
individuals and corporations for the show. During the 
show itself, there will be no soliciting of contributions 
to the capital campaign. Now consider the decision to 
schedule this celebrity celebration on April 19.
Why on earth did they schedule an event in the Civic 
Arena on the last night of Spring Carnival? For the same 
reasons that we students wish they hadnt. Carnival is 
the one time when all the members of the university 
community, past and present, are on campus, relaxed 
and looking for a party. Robert Finkel, the producer 
of Carnegie salutes Carnegie (class of 40), and Public 
Relations feel, that in putting together this show, they 
are giving the party that everyone is looking for. 
However, many students are not looking off campus for 
their party. They want to be on campus, on the Mid
way, at a Greek party, whatever. This is an obvious dif
ference in perspective.
Coordination could make up for these differing points 
of view by eliminating the competition between cam
pus events and the Civic Arena event. If students have 
to choose between staying on campus for the traditional 
festivities and trekking down to the Civic Arena to see 
Andy Williams sing Amazing Grace, most of us will 
probably stay on campus. The best way around this 
dilemma is not to have any Carnival events scheduled 
on campus between 8:30 Saturday night, when the 
event will begin, until 11:00 by which time people can 
be back on campus. Unfortunately, the Midway would 
have to close and the award ceremony would have to 
wait until after the show. Transportation to and from 
the Civic Arena would have to be available or the in
convenience of getting to the show will be enough to 
turn students off.
A final suggestion deals with the potential generation 
gap between alumni and students. The campus groups 
who will be performing, like the Jazz Choir may ap
peal to students; Andy Williams and Jerry Lewis may 
not. For students to enjoy the program, it will have to 
include the type of entertainment which college students 
like. The planners should solicit feedback from the stu
dent body concerning what they would most enjoy see
ing in a campus entertainment event, and make an at
tempt to incorporate these suggestions.
Letters:
Outrage stems from comics
Editor:
Let me add my voice to the chorus 
of readers offended by Nabil 
Liumangs comics. (I would also like 
to thank the brave gay student who 
wrote to express anger at one of the 
comics stereotyped images.) Mr. 
Liumang has so far exhibited sexism, 
homophobia (hatred and fear of les
bians and gay men), and an in
credibly boring lack of humor. With 
last weeks magazine-cover cartoon, 
Eighty, he shows ageism as well.
Mockery and hatred of older 
women is a form of sexism; in this 
culture, women are devalued as they 
grow beyond the Seventeen 
magazine image of beauty and reach 
their full maturity. Older men are 
seen as distinguished" and hand
some. which is more than partly 
related to the fact that they usually 
retain or increase their economic 
power as they mature. Women have 
traditionally had little access to 
economic and social power unless 
linked by birth or marriage to finan
cially secure men. Things haven't 
changed that much; women still 
make 59 C to a mans dollar, and a 
majority of the poor people in this 
country- are older women.
Aging women have wrinkles and 
grey hair, signs of wisdom and ex
perience which are despised since 
men prefer women to be as 
"feminine, i.e. childlike, as possi
ble: innocent, giggly defenseless and 
inexperienced (virginal). The 
counterpart of this stereotype is the 
whore image of the woman who 
knows about sex; this stereotype is 
also used to measure and degrade 
womens sexuality.
Mens's need to have women be 
younger and weaker (and shorter!) 
has been expressed in soft-core porn 
by Playboy models wearing ankle 
socks and pigtails, and by the 
Hustler cartoon Chester the 
Molester. which implies that girls 
ask for it" and that raping girls is
funny. Hard-core child porn carries 
this preference for younger women 
to its most extreme form.
Linking Mr. Liumangs comic to 
child porn may seem extreme, but 
as long as older women are mock
ed, de-sexualized and trivialized, the 
youth culture will remain more than 
a harmless joke or a series of images 
on a Pepsi commercial. Mocking 
older women is a violence; denying 
them their sexuality and sexual
desire (which, in women, has been 
proven to increase with age and ex
perience) is as violent as forcing sex
uality on children and women. As a 
woman who will someday show 
physical signs of aging, I refuse to 
be judged by Mr. Liumangs sexist 
and ageist standards, and I will not 
be silent while he tries to belittle the 
older beauty I will become.
Jan Hardy 
CMLT Employee
Reverse discrimination
Editor:
How would you react if Ronald 
Reagan demanded that everyone 
who was white should vote for him? 
What would you do to a man who 
wrote to the newspapers demanding 
more respect for men? If you are 
anything like me regarding racism or 
sexism you would probably become 
very angry. Such racism, however, 
does exist, and is often lauded.
Though Reagan was prudent 
enough to keep from saying 
anything so riduculous, a less 
scrupulous running mate had no 
such qualms, the Rev. Jesse 
Jackson.
Though no man is foolish enough 
to write a letter as sexist as the let
ter mentioned above, a CMU student 
submitted a similar letter to The 
Tartan.
The audacity of that letter was to 
complain of a comic that suggested 
women at CMU are not all attractive. 
Nobody complained when a few 
weeks earlier the same thing was sug
gested about men at CMU. I am sure 
that the same letter with the word 
women replaced by men and 
vice versa would probably have been 
thrown in the garbage by the 
editorial staff.
Celebrating White Week is 
publicly immoral, yet Black Week 
makes the front page. I am not sug
gesting that all ethnic activities
should be suspended, but sometimes 
reverse discrimination becomes a 
driving force behind the behavior of 
many people.
Racism and sexism still abound in 
this country, and not in any par
ticular ethnic group. Before a com
ment is made, people should look at 
it from anmothers point of view. If 
everyone could do this successfully 
racism and sexism would be stopped 
in their tracks.
Kurt von Roeschlaub 
A human being
Cartoon
Editor:
Regarding the printed letter 
(2/11/86) from a gay student who 
wishes to remain anonymous which 
concerned issues of the general in
tolerance of and pleas for understan
ding frorii everyone else: I do not 
understand the authors perspective.
The person was offended by a car
toon, compared its sexual stereotyp
ing as offensive as racial stereotyp
ing, sets himself (or herself) up as a 
member of a select group (the gays), 
a group which can kid itself but will 
allow no outsiders to kid them. And 
yet the author says, All we...ask for 
is understanding and acceptance. 
Does the group wish to earn this ac
ceptance by setting themselves apart 
continued on page 9

---------------------------------------------------

February 18, 1986The TartanPage 9
Quality of life: the university center
by Karen Lee
Believe it or not. the university center is a 
reality! There are already committees formed 
to make the university center. The following ar
ticle will detail all that I presently know about 
^cerner. Other important issues concerning 
the university's progress will be 
discussed in following articles. You 
can find out more by stopping at 
ggj my office hours this week.
In the Board of Trustees meeting last monday. President Cyert made a firm commitment 
to the center, He realizes that it definitely needs 
to be built. The rest of the administration and 
many board members are also committed to 
making the center the number one priority
The project has three parts. Firstly. Skibo is 
to be renovated and 26.000 square feet will be 
added. Although exactly what will be in the new 
'Skibo  has not been decided on, tentative 
ideas include meeting spaces, the bookstore, the 
post office, and new offices for student organizations. The estimated cost of this alone will be 
S8.2 million.
Secondly, a new 100.000 fitness-recreation 
center will be added to Skibo. Ideas for the 
center include: multipurpose gym area; jogging 
track; 50 meter pool: racquetball. squash, and 
tennis courts; fitness-weight training room; 
lockers, showers, equipment rooms: offices for 
the Athletic Department: and meeting areas. 
The estimated cost is SI2.8 million. The gym 
we have today will still be used as a gvm for 
basketball, volleyball, etc.
W hile not as strongly committed to a Perfor
ming Arts Center and Theatre compared to the 
two above, the committees are making a strong 
effort to raise gifts for this. There will be two 
auditorium style theaters. Remember though, 
this will be added sometime, mavbe at the same 
time as the whole center.
Two committees have been set up to decide 
on the details related to the center. The com
mittees are the campaign and the planning comLetters continued: 
Cartoons
continued from page 8
and defining the only manner in which they may' 
be treated? If so, theirs is a political cause, one, 
which will have little success if all of the party 
members wish to remain anonymous?
I do understand the author's motive, that of 
wishing to be an accepted member of the com
munity. Yet if he/she requests apologies and 
retractions from each person that offends his/her 
sensibilities he/she will spend much time pur
suing token gestures when the real issue he/she 
must deal withthat of fostering human 
tolerancewill be easily glossed over. It is much 
simpler to remain hidden in ones corner and 
lash out at the general populace for hurting 
ones feelings. It is another thing to live ones 
life as one sees fitwhether or not the general 
public agrees with itunashamedly, yet without 
intolerance for the intolerant, (for what could 
be more self-defeating than that?)
Personally, I am in sympathy with the 
anonymous gay students plight. I simply wish 
that he/she and others like him/her would come 
out of the closet.
Scott Chambliss 
*
Comic responds
Dear Sisters and BrothersHello, my name is Liumang. Nabil Liumang.
I am the creator of Zurk. I am writing in 
response to the dissent which has been caused by 
my last two art pieces. I feel a bit of explana
tion is in rder to help those troubled by my 
humor understand why I do what I do.
I am a satirist. Its that simple. I do not try 
to humiliate anyone, only use in my art what 
I see in my world. If that ends up antagonizing 
a persons beliefs, I really cant help it. There 
are many different viewpoints and I cannot 
please everyone everytime.
I am not a CMU womanizer, nor do I detest 
homosexuals. If there was a joke on the CMU 
campus about little puppy drool on newly wax
ed kitchen floors, I would probably have a 
satirical commentary on little puppy drool on 
newly waxed kitchen floors. I don t intend to 
offend little puppies, only relate to others 
through my art what I see and hear at CMU.
I hope this offers a bit of explanation to all
vou viewers. .. ... . .Nabil Liumang
Narrow Minds
Editor:
I strongly suggest the title of your column be 
changed from the Inquiring Minds to Narrow 
Minds. I realize that the writers are freshmen 
and havent been out in the real world or seen 
very much of it. Since they are the future 
citizens of this great land and being of the older 
generation, may I make a few suggestions.
The next time these writers slander and
mittee. The campaign committee is chaired by 
Ted \ierenberg. a Trustee who is very 
dedicated to this project. It is comprised of 
Trustees. Friends, administration, faculty, and 
3 students. The students are Maria Cousineau. 
Doug Camplejohn. and Mark Hart. The com
mittee will fundraise, review and recommend 
the program for the Center and oversee the 
selection of the architect.
discriminate they should please do some 
research and comparisons. Where can students 
eat all the fresh fruit that they can consume or 
line their trays with 5-6 glasses of juice, go back 
for seconds and thirds? Believe me it is being 
done! (Check with Kiltie costs!)
Many of the UDS employees have children, 
grandchildren and friends attending other 
universities and colleges. Ask them about their 
food service. They don't have a Comment Table 
where they can dictate what they want and make 
changes or have exciting specials i.e. Coney 
Island Day, Mexican Fiesta or a Candlelite Din
ner to name a few. These also send food costs 
soaring.
I eat at the Kiltie five days a week (two meals 
a day) and I am totally pleased with the food, 
the environment, the new salad bar, and new 
chairs. I am happy to say I will sleep nights in 
spite of this unprofessional opinion since I do 
know it is held by the very, very minority. The 
crowded cafeteria and the comment sheet pro
ve the writers are wrong!Irene Sedwick 
Head Baker 
Kiltie Cafe
UDS insulted
Editor:
This letter is in response to the letter the Inquring Staff, Stew Levine and Randy Wilson 
had printed in the Tartan newspaper February
11, 1986.
On behalf of my fellow employees, I find this 
letter an insult to the way we take pride in our 
work with U.D.S. I have been an employee of 
Carnegie Mellon University Food Service for the 
past 21 years. During this time I have been a 
cook, line person and cashier. I enjoy my job 
because I come in contact with some very nice 
students who really appreciate us. How do I 
know? Many of them have told me so.
To say the things you have said is very de
grading to us. My co-workers take pride in their 
work and are very excellent employees. They 
do a superb job. To give negative views on all 
of our eating areas is outrageous! What other 
college has as many eating facilities as we do?
U.D.S. has a Comment Table several times 
each in our dining room (Kiltie Cafe) if you 
wanted to make your complaints or comments, 
not in the Tartan newspaper.
U.D.S. management and employees put on 
beautiful events such as Valentines Day, Hallo
ween, and a Winter picnic to say the least. I 
as a cashier have been told how nice these 
events are by our student customers. These af
fairs take a lot of time and effort. The food serv
ed in our facilities is top quality, prepared by 
very professional people in their field. (This is 
the view held by my fellow workers).
We think we deserve an apology. Thank you 
for letting me get this off of my mind.
Dorothy Crimniett
Cashier
Kiltie Cafe
May 1987. You may think that this is far awav 
but to build a building takes a lot of planning. 
The center will take up almost all of the cur
rent Skibo parking lot. As a result, a parking 
garage on Forbes will need to be built first. 
More importantly, the capital needs to be raised.
The administration DOES CARE about quali
ty of life issues. They realize that these issues 
have not been high on past priority lists. Thev
The program committee, a subcommittee of are doing a S200 million capital drive to imthe campaign committee, is chaired by VP of 
Enrollment Bill Elliott. This committee is com
prised of faculty, students and administrative 
staff. This committee is divided into two sub
committees. One, chaired by Anne Witchner. 
will define the program for Skibo and the other, 
chaired by Earl Birdy. will define the program 
for the fitness-recreation center. These commitprove the whole campus. The university center 
itself is fo become a unique, quality building 
that will set the aesthetic standard for the univer
sity - a building equivalent to our education 
standards. So. come on people, give our ad
ministration some faith.
Karen Lee. President of Student Government, will
tees will define the programs by allocating space hare office hours in the Student Senate office 
and identifying facilities needed for each ele- on Tuesday 9:30-11:20 and Friday 11:30-1:30. 
ment of the University Center.
Now. the hopeful date of groundbreaking is
Inquiring Minds really 
dont give a damn
by the Inquiring Staff
Have you noticed how much easier it is to 
walk across the Cut this semester? You can ac
tually make it across without someone asking 
you to sign something or forcing a leaflet into 
your hand like last semester! What has happen
ed to our campus activists? We, at the Inquir
ing Minds Research Institute have developed 
several therories.
The first hypothesis is what we like to call 
"The Fair Weather Fanatics Syndrome. 
Reports in the national news have shown that 
activism has increased at such schools as 
Southern Cal. Miami, and Arizona State. Could 
it be that our protesters have gone south for the 
winter? We tend to discount this theory; our 
protestors seem too committed to let a little thing 
continued on page 10
The Dating Game
by N. Ganesh may get no respect but you do get rejected"
As a foreigner, I have tried playing different and plenty often. I should know. I once had an 
games in this country that are uniquely unbroken string of rejections going that made 
American in nature. Yet no game aroused my me a contender for the Guiness record in that 
curiosity as much or led to as many ridiculous category. Some other alien guy held that record, 
misadventures as did, what might very well be I learned. I was just one away from equalling it.
the most popular and most often when this girl said, yes. I was ecstatic; who 
played game in America, the would want to share a dubious record like that?
1 dating game. I should have known better. As I thanked her
___________ Had Eastwood played a on our date, I said to her: You may not know
foreigner in the movie "The Good, Bad and the this, you saved me from total humiliation. ' I 
Ugly, he would have probably observed: know, she replied sippping the Champagne, 
There are two kinds of foreigners here; those I used to be that guy with that recordwho dont try dating and those poor souls who j was not about to give up? not yet j turned 
do. Well, I belong to the second group. to my r0ommate. Sonny Fakeit, for some much
/
Ask anyone else in this group and he won't 
tell you. In this game the bottom line is, you
needed assistance. You see. Sonny was mv idol.
continued on page 10
The Tartan
Lisa D. McAnany
Editor-in-Chief
Olve PeersenJohn Friedmann
Managing EditorBusiness Manager
Vijay ReddyChristy CasamassiniaBruce Kasrel
News EditorFeatures EditorEntertainment Editor
Jill DorsonJack PollerMichael P. McHugh
Sports EditorPhotography EditorArt Editor
Albrecht T. PowellCeleste ClarkKathryn A. Sitter
Production ManagerAd ManagerTypesetting Manager
Michelle KeaneMohan EnibarKaren Gray
Dossier EditorContributing EditorContributing Editor
The Editorial appearing at the beginning of the 
opinion section is the official opinion of The Tar
tan editorial board. Columns are the opinions 
of individual authors who are not necessarily on 
The Tartan Editorial Board or Staff. Letters to 
the Editor are opinions of individual authors who 
are usually members of the Univerity communi
ty. A letter intended for publication must be sign
ed and include the writers address and phone 
number for verification. Names will be withheld 
upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to 
condense or reject any letter
Copyright  1986 by The Tartan. The 
Editorial Board reserves the right to withhold 
from publication any copy it deems unfit for 
publication.
Office: Skibo 50. (412) 268-2111.
Mailing address: The Tartan
Carnegie Mellon University 
Box 17
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Funded by 
reserved.
the Activities Fe. All rights

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanFebruary 18, 1986
Inquiring Minds
continued from page 9
like sub-zero weather stop them.
We feel that there is a simpler answer. Our 
protestors have simply run out of thing to pro
test. Realistically, how long can you make an 
issue out of abortion, South Africa, SEI, or SDI 
anyway? To return the Cut to normal, we 
need to find new issues for these people to pro
test. Naturally, we have a few suggestions.
Why is it SUPA always has the best parties? 
Whenever you walk through Margaret Morrison, 
no matter what time of the day, there is always 
a party in the SUPA lounge! How come only 
SUPA seems to know how to throw a decent 
mixer? Shouldn't they be forced to tpach other 
colleges how to get down and party?
Its currendy too easy to steal trays from Tar
tan Grill. Half the fun of traying is getting the 
trays in the first place. How can any sutdent 
get any pleasure out of just walking up, taking 
a tray, and leaving. The thrill, the exhiliration, 
and the risk of petty larceny just arent there. 
Certainly UDS could move the trays to a more 
challenging location.
There is also the question of INvestment. Why 
arent our funds in North Dakota? Weve never 
been there, but we hear its a nice state.
Of course, one could always protest Iron Ci
ty Beer (just on general principle).
In closing, we'd like to welcome David Lews 
Quesiton and Answers column to the world of 
serious journalism. In fact, we'd like to start him 
off with a question. Dave, what were the results 
of the 1957 Afghanistan yak census? Do we ac
tually give a damn? What do you think?
The Inquiring Staff is Stew Levine, Randy 
Wilson and Chris Williams.
Dating
continued from page 9
This guy had a black book that was so long he 
had two volumes the E-Z one and of course, 
the non E-Z ones. Sonny had a golden rule. In 
dating, Sonny said, remember, it is better to 
look cool than to be cool. His other advice? 
"You got to use lines, man, you simply got to 
use'm. They work for me.
Ah, now, about these all-American lines. In 
the true sense of the term they are, dynamite. 
Time them right, use them right and they 
deliver. One slip though, they could blow up 
in your face. I should know. I was at this party 
when I saw this rather heavy set girl (fashionably 
called, refrigerette) standing alone in a corner. 
As the evening progressed I noticed that no guy 
approached her; needless to say, no girl ap
proached me either. At last I decided to make 
concussion and three broken ribs. And Sonny 
said dating is just a harmless pastime.
I then turned elsewhere for help, this time 
though it was professional Yes, you guessed 
it, the TV. Ever seen that commercial in which 
the guy pops a breath freshener in his mouth, 
and before you know it, he is walking away with 
this beautiful stranger? Now you ask any home
grown sensible American kid who has logged 
his hours in this game and he will tell you it 
is just fantasy, does not work that way in real 
life. Now, as you may have realized, I am not 
a home-grown sensible American kid neither 
have I logged enough hours in this game. I 
decided to give this rather novel technique a 
try. I packed my backpack with more of those 
mints than David Letterman had in his AlkaSeltzer suit and set off on a hiking trail.
Then it happened. The Encounter. As I was 
helping that tired and breath-freshened beauty 
hikress to her feet, she said: Well, I sure would 
like to get to know you better. It worked. Why 
dont you take a hike... I started. Get lost 
she snapped back, walking away. . . . with me 
to the end of this trail so we can talk? I shouted 
after her as she disappeared into the foliage.
I still haven't figured out what went wrong.
I was never quite successful at figuring out
girls even back home, let alone understanding 
girls here. So I decided to pursue the try-oneif-it-fails-try-another approach. I would be the 
first to admit that it doesn't always work. At a 
party, I saw this pretty young thing dressed to 
kill. Maybe she liked the macho type. I really 
dig you, babe'' I offered in the machoest of 
voices. She looked at me. You dig any deeper 
and I'll bury you in that hole. Not the macho 
type. Maybe she was the sensitive type. Look, 
I haven't had a date for two months; my friends 
laugh at me. Please say yes to going out with 
me just once; it will get the monkey off my 
back. She looked at me closely. Thats fun
ny she said I thought it was only natural for 
monkeys to carry monkeys on their back. 
Evidently not the sensitive type either.
As the party wound down and we were about 
to leave, I noticed her car was stuck. She ap
proached me and said Maybe I will let you 
take me home. Go to Hell I replied, without 
pausing to think and started pulling away in my 
car. A moment later I realized I had been im
polite, maybe downright rude. I backed up my 
car, rolled down the window and as she took 
a step towards my car, I said: By the way, have 
a nice trip and drove away. Who says America 
is no longer a land of opportunity?
-MWRENCE UIRMORE N4TION4L MBOR4TORYTECHNGL EXCELLENCE SNCE1952
Electrical/Electronics Engineers 
Mechanical Engineers
Our major research programs are: National Defense (nuclear weapons and defensive systems research)  Magnetic Fusion Energy
 Laser Fusion  Energy Research  Biomedical and Invlronmental Research
ON CAMPUS 
TUESDAY 
FEBRUARY 25
See your Placement office for more information, or write to: 
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, RO. Box 5510, Dept. JCR, 
Livermore, CA 94550. 
An equal opportunity employer m/f/h. 
U.S. citizenship required.
University of California
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory

---------------------------------------------------

10 CUT LARGE PIZZA 
k & 2 LITER PEPSI
$3.50
pi il*
The Great Pirate Ticket Sale681*2202 or 681-2203
THE NEW BIICS 
WE PLAYToday
in
Skibo
DIGITAL EQUIPMENT 
CORPORATION
We invite you to take a look at 
a distinctly different Computer
Company
Meet Pirate Representatives
Get good seats for all Pirate games
Make your ownThe New Bucs: We Play Hardball 
poster and win FREE tickets.
Information Session:
Thursday, February 24 
Wherrett Room 
4-6 p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

Steve AppelbaumCFA 
Phone: 421 2052 
Office Hours:
Thursday 4:30-5:30
Toby AyreMCS 
Phone: x3985 
Office Hours: 
Wednesday 5:30-6:30
Robert BollingerCFA 
Phone: x4270 
Office Hours:
Friday 4:30-5:30
Kenneth BramCIT 
Phone: 683-6383 
Office Hours: 
Monday 5:30-6:30
Peter CohenH&SS 
Phone: 441 9826 
Office Hours: 
Thursday 6:00-7:00
Nadine FlynnCFA 
Phone: 681-6789 
Office Hours: 
Wednesday 12:30-1:30
Leslie FrankH8-SS 
Phone: x8965 
Office Hours: 
Tuesday 9:00-10:00
Allen GreenbergH&SS 
Phone: x4843 
Office Hours: 
Wednesday 11:30-12:30
Myles GreenbergCIT 
Phone: x4625 
Office Hours: 
Wednesday 2:30-3:30
Dana HausmanMCS 
Phone: x3958 
Office Hours:
Monday 4:30-5:30
Student
Faces to
1   
Student Senate Office
Todd GilesIM 
Phone: 681 6478 
Office Hours:
Cherie JagerskiCIT 
Phone: x5958 
Office Hours: 
Wednesday 1:30-2:30
Glenn KornbrekCFA 
Phone: 421-5182 
Office Hours:
Friday 1:30-2:30
Seth KaplanMCS 
Phone: x4310 
Office Hours: 
Tuesday 1:30-2:30
Karen Lee
Student Government President 
Phone: x4594
Office Hours: Tuesday 9:30-11:30, 
Friday 11:30-1:30
Senators Not
Chrissy HynesCFA 
Phone: x4207 
Office Hours: 
Monday 11:30 12:30
Happy
Meet and talk to 
your Senators.
Free food and drinks

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
Comics
Gallery
Classifieds
Events
Three Russian Ballets Preformed by the PBT
By LISA McANANY
Tartan Editor in Chief
Daring seems to be the best adjective to 
describe the Pittsburgh Ballet Theatres presen
tation of Petrouchka, Don Juan, and Raymonda Variations. All three ballets featured distinct
ly Russian choreography, characterized by 
demanding musical scores and technical dif
ficulty of movement.
Petrouchka featured PBT principal Charles 
Hagan in the title role which was originally per
formed and immortalized by Vaslav Nijinsky of 
the Ballet Russes. The 30-minute ballet is danc
ed to a score by Igor Stravinsky which the com
poser wrote specifically for this ballet. The ballet
The tragi-comic ballet tells the story of one 
of three carnival puppets. Petrouchka or Little 
Petter is a marionette with a human heart, who 
rivals another puppet, the Moor for the love of 
the third puppet, a ballerina. The characters in 
the ballet have no regard for Petrouchkas emo
tions, and the tragedy of character is made com
plete when the Moor finally kills him. The vivid 
characterization in Petrouchka represents a 
freedom from the stylization of earlier dancing.
Hagan was very effective in communicating 
the emotions of his character using exaggerated 
movements and facial expressions. Hagan 
points to the importance in dancing Petrouchka 
of being a puppet who wants to be human,
agility and exuberance made his execution of 
many aerial movements exciting, despite a few 
noticeable mistakes. Dana Lewis was excellent 
as Donna Anna, as was Laura Desiree, danc
ing Miranda. The ballet was danced to Mozarts 
Piano Concerto No. 21, possibly the composers 
most famous work for the keyboard, known for 
its light and airy cadenzas. However, the piece 
was too narrow in its musical direction to work 
well with the passionate nature of the ballet.
This interpretation of the classic story 
depicted Don Juan being constandy pursued by 
women, when all he really wants is to find a 
good chess match. The striking set, designed 
by Irene Pasinski, accentuated these themes,
performance as the solo ballerina. Her partner, 
Kenneth Nickel, a last-minute substitute for 
Pablo Savoye, was erratic, as his aerial 
movements were well-executed, but his timing 
was inconsistent. The scenes featuring 
ensembles of twelve dancers were the technicalthe best and were also the most enjoyable 
parts of this ballet.
The costumes for this 32-minute ballet 
designed by Karinska, were classical in their 
muted shades of pink and blue. The set and 
lighting were equally unobstrusive, providing a 
soft blue back ground for Balanchines 
neo-classicism.
The collection of these three ballets providwas created for the Ballet Russes, the revolu
tionary company founded by Russian impressario Sergei Diaghilev. Petrouchka was first 
performed in Paris in 1911. It set a new stan
dard for ballet, by encorporating music, costum
ing, and set design to create an entire dramatic 
work of art, rather than just a musical dance. 
Despite the revolutionary nature of this piece, 
however, 44 The ballet was considered to be 
great even in its own time,4 according to Dean 
Akram Midani of CMUs College of Fine Arts, 
who gave a lecture in Heinz Hall on Diaghilev 
and the Ballet Russes on Thursday evening 
prior to the opening performance.
rather than a human who tries to be a puppet. 
PBTs version of the ballet was choreograph
ed by Nicholas Beriozoff after Michael Fokine, 
who originally choreographed the piece for the 
Ballet Russes. The costumes were recreated by 
Budd Hill from the original design by Alexander 
Benois. George Bardygrine was responsible for 
the lighting design.
The weekends performance also featured the 
world premeiere of Don Juan as choreograph
ed by Russian-trained German Zamuel. The 
ballet used challenging and often dangerous 
gymnastic-type movements. The title role was 
danced by PBT principal Pablo Savoye, whose
with a large checker-board heart suspended 
from the back of the stage, which is split at the 
opening of the ballet, but is moved to form a 
complete heart by the end of the work. The 
costumes, designed by Kathleen Zimbicki are 
equally engaging, using metallics and handpainted fabrics to enrich the distinctly Spanish 
styles.
Raymonda Variations, choreographed by 
George Balanchine and danced to the music of 
Alexandre Glazounov, presented a series of 
short interludes of typically Balanchine 
choreography, danced by soloists as well as 
corps de ballet. Dana Lewis gave an energetic
 ed an interesting and at times exciting evening 
of entertainment, though obvious technical er
rors from some of the soloists, detracted from 
the performance. Nonetheless, the overall emo
tional impression left by the performance was 
one of an adequate handling of three pieces 
which are marked by cumbersome technicality 
and difficult musical scores.
PBT's season continues in April with 
Konigsmark (Tchaikovsky/Prokovsky), Four 
Temperaments (Hindemith/Balanchine}, and 
Cole (Cole Porter/Soulant), to be performed on 
April 24, 25, 26, 27.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanFebruary 18, 1986
The Women: Cat fights at the Kresge Theatre
it Beneath the
>cative, Entertaining, Informative, Film Serfes
Surface
A Tribute to Sidney Poitier  February 19
"Edge of the City* Community College 12 (X) pm "Men of Bronze* of Aiegheny(B Miles) County
West HaHAuditorium Ridge Avenue
Tribute to Unique Genre - February 23
Portrait of Jason' Carnege Mellon *H There Weren't Any Blacks Vbud Have to Invent Them
Tribute to Melvin Van Peebles  February 27
9 00 pm"Story of a 3 Day Urwversity ofPass* PittsburghJames Weldon
David Lawrence Auditorium
Melvin Van Peebles, Lecturer
By JOE FERRUGIA
Tartan Theatre/Film Critic
The Women, a play by Clare Boothe Luce 
opened on Wednesday, February 12 at CMUs 
own Kresge Theatre. Set in New York in the 
1930s, The Women takes some very funny 
shots at the rich and idle (and supposedlysophisticated) social elite.
The Women is centered around the life of 
Mary , a member of New Yorks social circle 
who seems to stand above the pettiness of her 
contemporaries. The play follows Mary through 
her discovery that her husband is having an af
fair with another woman, her break up, the years 
following her divorce. Surrounding Mary is a 
veritable gaggle of geese she reluctantly calls 
her friends. They are the real ladies of the social 
elite. Lnfortunately for Mary, they are also une
quivocal bitches who never miss the opportunity 
to gossip about their friend s misfortune or 
speculate about her inevitable divorce. It is 
these friends who eventually cause Marys 
divorce by leaking the information of her hus
bands infidelity to the society section of the 
newspaper. With friends like these, who needs 
enemies? What follows is Mary's struggle with 
the divorce and with the painful reality of be
ing separated from her husband, a man she tru
ly loves. She also has to deal with her friends."
The dialogue that passes between these 
women is absolutely hilarious. Each character 
lends a different kind of humor to the story and 
makes the entire play enjoyable to watch. Nan
cy is a smart talking, unmarried woman writer. 
She joyfully pokes fun at all her friends without 
discrimination. She also has some wonderfully 
cynically lines like Nobody ever misses a 
clever woman. Edith, perenially pregnant, 
has the outlook on life that can only come from 
having five children. Countess De Lage is a fre
quently tipsy, rather large, woman who has had 
four previous husbands She floats around the
stage lending her advice on love to anyone who 
will listen. As you can guess, few do. However, 
it is the antics of Sylvia and Crystal that really 
bring out the flavor of The Women. These ladies 
could give Joan Collins lessons on how to be 
a bitch. These women don't just get a manicure, 
they get de-clawed. The repartee between these 
two characters and the rest of the cast is alone 
worth the price of admission. It is hilarious. 
There is a scene in which the ladies gang up 
on the woman who stole Mary's husband. The 
scene was like feeding time at the lions cage 
in the zoo. All of the characters were delightfully 
catty.
Actually, The Women is at its best when its 
characters are being catty, which is most of the 
time. Clare Boothe Luce wrote The Women as 
a satire of the society in which she lived. Luce 
takes aim at this portion of society who finds 
an almost perverse pleasure at the misfortune 
of others; the heartless and the destructive. 
Luce hits her target with striking accuracy.
All of the performances in this play are top 
notch. Janice Lynn Clark is charming, warm 
and credible as Mary. The fact that Mary can 
endure the acid-tongue remarks of her friends 
allows the audience to accept them more easi
ly. She provides the necessary contrast to the 
cats' that allows the play to succeed instead of 
wallowing in cynicism. Kim Anne Connolly is 
magnificent as Countess De Lage. Ms. Connol
ly has a flair for comedy and the character adds 
some wonderful, light hearted moments to The 
Women. All of Ms. Connollys scenes were 
hysterical. Anne Altieris Crystal, magnificent
ly malicious, is definitely a woman youll love 
to hate. If anyone steals the show, though, its 
Anne Capron as the tigress Sylvia. Wearing 
leopard skin for almost the entire performance, 
Sylvia walks the stage like a cat waiting to strike. 
Sylvia is less malicious than Crystal but no less 
heartless. She is probably more dangerous as
Sylvia and Crystal bitching it up.
a friend than as an enemy. Ms. Caprons Sylvia 
is devilishly cunning and capricious - Joan Col
lins had better watch out.
The Women is, not surprisingly, comprised of 
an entirely female cast. All of the women are 
wonderful and the production is first rate. A.S 
Reynolds set is stylish and sophisticated. It 
definitely adds to the visual appeal of the play. 
Terri L. Flukes costumes were also stunning. 
The 1930s never looked so good. Lee
Sankowich expertly brings everything together 
into a brilliant, funny play.
The Women runs at the Kresge Theatre 
through February 22. The fact that it's right 
here on campus means that students dont have 
to travel very far or face the harsh winter to ex
perience an enjoyable night at the theater. Stu
dent discounts make the price of admission 
comparable to going to a movie. The Women is 
fine theater and is very, very funny.

---------------------------------------------------

February 18, 1986The TartanPage 15
Butt Rockin Music From the Fabulous Thunderbirds
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Entertainment Editor
The Fabulous Thunderbirds 
Tuff Enuff 
CBS Records
After almost twenty years of playing in seedy 
bars and night clubs, The Fabulous Thunder
birds have finally made it big. With the highly 
promoted release of their latest album, Tuff 
Enuff\ as well as a national tour, (they are the 
opening act for Stevie Ray Vaughan) The 
Fabulous Thunderbirds have found a vehicle 
to obtain the kind of attention their musical 
talents merit.
The Thunderbirds are a rhythm and blues 
band that mix classic 50s style rhythms with 
inventive and original lyrics. An exact descrip
tion of their sound is difficult to pinpoint, yet 
lead guitarist Jimmie Vaughan describes the 
band: Weve got soul or something. It sounds 
authentic. Were not even really a blues band. 
We can play the hell out of the blues, and we 
do, every night. But we play American music. 
Were more of a dance band, a party band, a 
rock'nroll band.
Often mis-classified as rockabilly revivalists, 
a more exact term might be bluesabilly, these 
greased-backed hair rockers are musically more 
on the order of the immortal Paul Butterfield 
Blues Band: vocalists and harmonica player 
Kim Wilson sings, plays, and even looks like 
Butterfield, and admits that Butterfield was his 
first inspiration. Also drawing their sound from 
Gulf Coast bluesmen like Big Walter Price-who 
lead the Thunderbirds (not the fabulous) in the 
50s and 60s, Slim Harpo. and Lazy Lester.
To say that the Fabulous Thunderbirds copy 
or imitate these famed musicians of the past
would be wrong. Instead of just rehashing the 
past, the Thunderbirds create a new sound bylaying down a strong, hard foundation set up 
by bassist Preston Hubbard and drummer Fram 
Christina; combine it with soulful ly rics, sing
ing, and the play of Wilson; and icing it off with 
the articulate and emotion packed guitar licks 
of Vaughan. The result is a sound that is finetuned R&B with groovin' dance rhythms mix
ed in.
I got my first taste of what the Thuderbirds 
are all about when I saw and heard them per
form at the Syria Mosque on January 24th. 
There is no hype with these guys, they just get 
up on stage and rock your socks off. With their 
butt-kickin rocknroll and blues-inspired 
ballads, the Thunderbirds had everyone in the 
Syria Mosque clapping and dancing about wild
ly. I was astonished, to say the least, and rush
ed to the nearest record store to buy their latest 
album. Sadly, I must report that the Thunder
birds suffer a mild case of sound-better-livesyndrome. The album, Tuff Enujf. is vintage 
dance rhythm and blues, but it just doesn't cap
ture the spectacular sounds that these guys can 
produce when placed in front of a few thousand 
screaming and dancing fans.
The album title track begins the album with 
a strong drum beat which slowly blends in with 
a smooth and simple guitar lick. Bring in Kim
Wilson's lyrics and velvety voice and you have 
a sure-fire dance hit. Tell Me, a very- upbeat 
and light standard by Sidney Simien and Ed
die Shuler, introduces the harmonica-playing 
aspect of Wilson. Wilson and the rest of the 
band don't stay very far from the original 
rhythm, which gives the song a rather tired and 
stale feeling to it. The third track, Look at That, 
Look at That, is definitely the best of the 
original songs on the album. Without the hin
drance of a chorus or catchy lyrics, the real 50's 
rockn'roll style of the Thunderbirds shines 
through. With the extra spunk and musical 
tones that piano player Chuck Leavell adds, the 
song moves and grooves nicely.
The only ballad on this release is Two Time 
My Lovin, which extends the range of Wilson's 
vocals to the limit. His hearty vocals like:
I found out you've got somebody else 
But I love you baby and I just can't help myself 
I can't let you go it's plain as day to see 
I'm gonna have to let you two time me 
are a refreshing change of pace in todays mono
syllabically filled rock'nroll scene.
every track, Wilson's ebullient harp playing fills 
the gaps where something fresh is missing, he 
will knock you dead in Down at Antones. The 
blues great Muddy Waters once said, Kim 
Wilson is the best harp player in the world to
day.
Tuff Enuff. like the previous Thunderbirds 
releases, has a sense of humor about it. In Why 
Get Up Wilson laments about the pressures of 
the world, and asks the question that every one 
who has had an 8:30 class can relate to:
Why get up
How can I get up
Why should I get up
This whole world's gone crazy
Think I have seen enough
I'm gonna sleep forever
Why get up.
These playful lyrics along with the bands ex
aggerated snoring noises in the background 
arous a humorous aspect that the rest of the 
album lacks. However, the snoring does get an
noying when superimposed over Vaughans 
superb. Chuck Berry-like guitar solo.
Tuff Enuff may not be a good representation 
of what these guys sound like five, but it still 
is a heck of an album. While your listening to 
it be careful: your feet will start tapping, hips 
will begin to swirl, and soon the rest of you will 
be bouncing all over the room. This album is 
a must for party-tape composers and anyone 
who loves to let the music make you get up and 
dance.
Not to take anything away from Wilson's 
soulful singing, the real heart of his artistic talent 
resides in his harmonica playing. In almost
Give a hoot. Dont pollute.
Forest Service, U.S.D.A.
!
! FORBES GALLERY PRESENTS
A HIGH TECH SHOW.
FEBRUARY 19-23, 1986 
OPENING: FEBRUARY 18, 7 to con
GALLERY HOURS:tiueidupag 520n to 10on1Erldupam Fl*upa  dp1rlupag 520n to 7onSUNDAY: NOON to 5on
DECREASE STRESS
SIGN UP FOR WORKSHOPS AT THE COUNSELING CENTER:
MANAGING SCHOOL & PERSONAL STREES
4 Wednesdays, 4:30 - 5:30 p.m.; begins February 26
GOING HOME AGAIN: DEALING WITH PARENTS
2 Wednesdays, 4:00 - 5:00 p.m., March 12 & 19
THE WOMENS GROUP
4 Thursdays, 5:00 - 6:00 p.m.; begins February 27
GETTING ALONG: DEALING WITH ROOMATE CONFLICT
4 Tuesdays, 4:30 - 5:30 pxm.; begins February 25
UNDERSTANDING ALCOHOL AND DRUG ABUSE IN FAMILIES
2 Tuesdays, 4:00 - 5:00 p.m., March 11 & 18
FOR INFORMATION AND REGISRATION: Call x2922, or visit 
Counseling & Student Development Center 
Morewood Gardens, E Tower, Room 103 
9:00 a.m. - 12 noon & LOO p.m. - 5:00 p.m.
THISTLE
Celebrates 60 years of memories
On sale
next week
Feb. 25 thru Mar. 7 
Skibo Grey Matter 
Morewood Gardens
flitut oS
,"ltui" sb"r)r"ru fuu

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanFebruary 18, 1986
v . .. ...   /,  ......................... . m*. : .Carlin to bring own brand of comedy to the Syria Mosque
Comedian George Carlin will appear at the Syria Mosque on Feb. 28.
At Forbes: Computer Art
By AMANDA COHEN
Tartan Comedy Reviewer
George Carlin, a leader among comedians will 
be performing at the Syria mosque onFebruary 
28. He is bringing his patented style of com
edy to Pittsburgh, and local fans expect an 
outstanding show.
Sprung from a Catholic schooling in the fif
ties, the Class Clown learned to elicit laughter 
from his peers early as a student. He loved to 
go for the suppressed laughter of the classroom 
situation. Venture a guess as to what it must 
have been like to have a future king of bodily 
noises sitting next to you during an exam. Un
fortunately. he would often find himself severely 
punished for such improper behavior, and even
tually left school because of it.
So logically he went into professional comedy. 
He began as a disk jockey, and in 1959 went 
to work with Jack Burns (who would later work 
with Avery Schreiver). They eventually did a 
morning radio show together, while perform
ing as a comedy team by night. This schedule 
of working till two in the morning and then hav
ing to be up again by six is probably familiar 
to most students. Being funny on a schedule 
like this can be a strain.
They stopped working together in 1962. and 
Carlin took his own stand-up into the sixties and 
seventies, where it grew like weed. He made 
many television appearances, and worked on 
live shows as well. In certain clubs, he would 
be harassed for using off-color words and 
language commonly deemed offensive, and in 
1972 he was arrested for using this part of the 
English language in a show where young 
children were present. The words were part of 
a routine called Seven Words You Can Never 
Say On Television, which has since become 
a classic, and has been much expanded upon. 
A more complete list appears in Carlins book 
of leftover lines, 'Sometimes a Little Brain
Damage Can Help.
After the free-speech incident, Carlin found 
that playing to college audiences afforded him 
the freedom to use his complete repertoire. He 
began cutting albums of his stand-up comedy, 
which by then had developed its distinctive 
style. His material ranges from definitive parody 
to bawdy sound effects to artistic wordplay and 
constants queries to humanity in general: Did 
you ever wonder why the Rice Krispies highest 
on the bowl dry first? All of this is performed 
with spotless delivery and a host of characters 
scattered about for appropriate situations.
Carlin can take the simplest concept, like 
maintaining a refrigerator as in his popular 
Icebox Man, and take every tiny detail to very 
funny extremes. All of his older material is by 
now fine-tuned to near perfection, and Carlin 
continues to produce new material. His creative 
base is a multi-media studio which allows him 
to write, develop and produce his own art. He 
has produced some video pieces and his recent 
albums feature some studio-recorded pieces, 
like the popular Book Club" and An Inter
view with Jesus.
But Carlin is not forsaking stand-up.......hell
be doing it again on Friday the 28th at the Syria 
Mosque. Old fans can most likely expect an 
amount of his standard material, with some new 
material in for the originality, and possibly even 
some sketch-oriented non-stand-up bits. New 
fans can be sure that they are in for a great show 
at the very least.
By KATE BONELLO
Special to The Tartan 
When one thinks of the art being produced 
on campus one usually considers objects like 
the sculpture that occasionally is seen outside 
on the Cut; there is a great tendency to think 
of art in traditional terms: sculpture, painting, 
printmaking. However, Carnegie Mellon is high 
tech university. The administration is always 
talking about state of the art.
The Forbes Gallery is talking about a different 
kind of State of the Art. For the annual high 
tech show, which opens tonight at 7 pm and 
runs through Sunday, February 23, the Forbes
Gallery gathered everything from computer 
chips and electron microscope photographs to 
a video totem pole. It isnt all produced using 
high tech equipmentsome of it is just about 
high technology. You may never feel the same 
about computers again.
Perhaps the most interesting thing about State 
of the Art is that it gathers work which normal
ly would not be seen by a gallery audience. 
Amber Dailey and Rod Strychor, for instance, 
are showing photographs taken with a transmis
sion electron microscope. The photographs 
show what Titanium Chromium and Ti Alloy 
continued on page 17
Funded by Activities Fee
AB Lectures
presents
AN EVENING WITH
RICH HALL
Tuesday March 4 8:00 p.m. 
Skibo Ballroom

---------------------------------------------------

February 18, 1986The TartanPage 17
* File imt Chart Tesfc layoutFont$ Styjg
 Show Oates... 
COlltCEj $et Earliest start.
FUND RAISINGBASHDiirattf Scale.
Ometm Seal. 
Calendar...
4/2*
By r LnKUGlA and McHLGH
Tartan DH2210 Reviewers
ThursdayLady Sings the Blues
This is the biography of singer Billie Holiday 
as told by Diana Ross, well almost. Ross stars 
as Ms. Holiday but the film lacks historical fact 
about the late singer or even about music of the 
1940s. If you dont care about details, then 
< the film wont bother you. Ross is good, but the 
real Billie Holiday was much more than this film 
paints her out to be. This film is strictly for 
Diana Ross fans. Directed by Sidney Furie.
TARTAN MOVIE GRADE 2.75
FridaySilverado
A tongue-in-cheek western that offers a surpris
ingly high quality cast. Its sort of The Magnifi cent Seven, Minus Three as Kevin Kline leads 
a group of four well-meaning souls who aid the 
town of Silverado from viscious Brian Dennehey 
and his gang. Lawrence Kasdans direction is 
uneven at times but there are a number of fun
ny scenes which make the movie enjoyable. 
John Cleese plays a dandy English sheriff 
and Linda Hunt is a diminutive saloon Keeper. 
Definitely the average western.
TARTAN MOVIE GRADE 3.50
Saturday1984
George Orwells novel is remarkably brought 
to life in Michael Redfords brilliant film. The 
story is probably one of the most widely read 
and this film does justice to Orwells visions. 
The film was created to reflect Orwells version 
of the future, not our own present. Orwells hero 
Winston Smith, played by John Hurt, lives in 
a world of grim and crushing humanity, of 
bombed factories and of citizens desperate for 
the most simple pleasures. Enter a girl named 
Julia (Suzanna Hamilton) who gives Winston a 
note that says simply I love you and Richard 
Burton as the immensely cynical Inner par
ty member, OBrien. This film finds the novels 
darkest side and reveals it with striking reality.
TARTAN MOVIE GRADE 4.0
continued from page 16
look like magnified 200.000 times. Another ex
hibitor. Todd Rockoff. is displaying designs of 
computer chips-again. greatly magnified using 
computer printouts.
A collaboration by Bruce Seigall and Ed 
Clune shows plots of mathematical formulas. In 
their work on the Warp Project (the name was 
taken from Star Trek). Seigal generated the for
mulas on the project's computer and Clune add
ed the colors. The final wax prints show the 
overall plot, a section of the plot magnified, and 
a further magnification of the second part of the 
series.
Richard Wallace used a computer to take a 
picture of a face and enlarge it to enormous size. 
The picture, which uses four pixels per page, 
will cover a large portion of a wall. Another com
puter artist, Andrew Singer, will be using an Ap
ple Macintosh to play music of his own com
position; the Mac will also be used for computer 
games during the show. Singer is also showing 
a Super 8 film called Hacker Breakdown." 
which takes place entirely in the Hunt Library 
Macintosh Center.
Andy Cook is filling the back room of the 
gallerv with a video totem pole: seven televisions 
in various states of repair showing two different 
videos. Chris Gray will be exhibiting a reaction 
to high technology; three series of photographs 
which show plastic toys in traumatic situations. 
"Eskimo Battle. for instance, has plastic toys 
in combat in a freezer. The toys are also shown 
in a dishwasher, and Barbie and Gl Joe, in a 
trip to England, drown in the Thames and are 
eaten by cows. State of the Art is a rare oppor
tunity indeed to see art which both utilizes and 
reacts to high technology. It only happens once 
a vear. so don't miss it.
DO YOU LIKE FREE TICKETS?
If the answer is yes and you want to write about entertainment, then you are jus* what 
Diversions is looking for. Contact me, Bruce Kasrel, at X2111 or X4059 for more info. | 
This could be your ticket to fame, glory and free stuff!Make a new plan, Stan.
Last week you missed your Future Pancreas 
Specialists study group. Yesterday you missed the Easta 
aka Towa frats annual Java n Suds Bash. And 
today you missed the deadline on your thesis, Deaf 
Lemon Schwartzberg: The Man,The Myth,The Legend" 
This is exactly why you should consider a 
Macintosh.
With programs like MacProject you can keep 
track of all your school projects and activities. Because
MacProject allows you to arrange and organize your 
life right on the Macintosh screen.And should you have 
to drop a class or miss a deadline, itll help you reorgan
ize by automatically recalculating your entire schedule.
Another example of how Macintosh helps 
students work smarter, guicker and more creatively. 
And the beauty of Macintosh is, you don't have 
to know diddley about computers to use one.
So get a Mac, Jack.
 198S Apple Computer. Inc. Apple, the Apple logo and MacProject are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc Macintosh is a trademark of McIntosh Laboratory. Inc. and is being used with its express permission
State of the Art
 FIRST TRINITY LUTHERAN CHURCH 
(Missouri Synod)
Pastor Robert Hader 683-4440
DEMO STUDIO
Quality Recording You Can Afford
1062 Franklin Drive 
Bethel Park, PA 15102 
JACK IRWIN (412) 835-398
531 North Nevil Street, Oakland 
(within walking distance of campus)
ADULT BIBLE CLASS: 9:45 AM 
WORSHIP SERVICE: 11:00 AM 
SUNDAY EVENING FELLOWSFIIP: 7:30 
PM at parsonage. 535 N. Neville
This week at
the Symphony
February 20 
February 21 
February 22
Rossini
Beethoven
George
Rochberg
Sibelius
Thursday (Series D,D2), 8:00 
Friday (Series A,A1), 8:30 
Saturday (Series C,C1), 8:00 
Michael Lankester, Conductor 
Salvatore Accardo, Violin 
Overture to The Voyage to Rheims * 
Violin Concerto
Transcendental Variations* 
Symphony No. 5

---------------------------------------------------

by Nabil LiumangZurk
HELGASCHMUTZ
A REGULAR
NWLMSThe tWohe
GEORGEBIG CHEE5EONE BORINS TOY OHTOE 
NOU.EM ElcjEHRftC SET.pic fn .Jc scdc. d(D-dV 
d(.s(lcsV) FTyh TbeTb1 
cAV4,4cs HAS OECIOED TO 
ELECT A COMICS PANEL THAT 
WH-L 6D|T ALL CfltAICS FoR 
SLANDEROUS coi^fAENfS THE 
PWber d(V-V.V (g gWSe 4c(4u.
k COMMUNIST 
FEMINIST.
THE TYPUAL CFA 
PERSON.ONE OF THOSE CMO
.T0BP nkns,B 9UORS
,l A(spV We beT TybT waDEEMED UNWORTHY"
WILL BE BLANKED OUT.
HO-HUMI LIKE TO SNORT PLASTER OF PARIS AND LET IT HARDfN IN (^.NOSTRILS.
LITTLE BOYS 
GIVE ME HIVES.MONEY TALKS. NA&1L SHOULDN'T.
WELLyJAMTE'D fa 
' THE ' 
Tt. Vfc
HEYoiDybU HEAR 
THE JO ice AgoOT
XT SEEKS 
U/ANTfD To IuT 1 
IN THE wftY.Inkspots
by Kurt Shaw
The Top Floor
rOVGOYS COMM TO BROCKS SURPRISE 30throws nwths hba0lrh. 
AREN'T YOU?
HtYfW JOKBS ABOUT JIKVwUPK/WRCKT TYLENOL. OR
TartnS fwieePnTICKETS, TUME
YOU KtJCM WHAT jfc hog py EdCb pump ctBc l:BtRFop. HIS ls:ew ar,AF&.YA ToMGHT/
Wo, you can t suggest a new amendment!
See the Gallery page 
for Comics in the NewsTHIS WAY UP ?
oS enxjiaur"un 
Jit enxjiuSuDoak Stryker and the Alamo Three
MEANWHILE,4T THE TO/MAKER'S WOKKSUOT.
Over the past two weeks, the 
to have become a hot-bed of c 
a few individuals took offense 
our strips.
The purpose of a Comics pa 
art of literature, is one of hur 
fun at people, groups of peop < 
tions. It is the role of the cartot 
and idiosyncrasies of our work 
time, all of our eccentricities wi 
I ask the Carnegie Mellon t 
stride, and treat them as an of 
at ourselves. 
MAT
TH-?
oS stJa wxuiounh 
Jit HJau TlnruiPublic Enemy Number One
ANC? A$^ A2e 4?ifuw TZ?~Y(AA VVA.NJT Tt7 (?<?,r&c?si\ve <r*c>v&>
(?uki Awp ^Scri^eysT'--------------- rm fmiwm -Tiriin m y  y
... Amp -tue- rne o
=e^e 7^ ,IM Tuei WpANrgvuDn!7 Pt-AiH' !hoC -Tt-i^ .uiT
I -3W*>T i-r yig^psx 0fla:iw^tan^, V/57U pvir eve*-* U&&V A 'S?A . -T^-T A^p A
Mu* i p 'i^ur T-tATfrC&HC' j^jU U^V=yLT'
Comics

---------------------------------------------------

by Mike McHughBLOOM COUNTYStudent Dormitory Council
IT WORKS WITH 
XHNMZeXS, BUT 
WOUtPfTWORKON OH GO?. 
PHVK-15 SCHtAFCY ? in HfT.
I AM IHiT?
,1 m>tc/
<3T BWCX ID VUP, ouxi
RhBDo vou ?Rew, yfRw-I
iAS*D OJWTFR FOCOL
excuse 4An tAPies. HMewj&eNvemBOOP HANG GU PING 
H6Re REcemiy ?
0h9> rr. 
0PU5 15 
PR6AMING 
AGAIN.
NOT FOR 
AT L6ASTTVJCNTi 1HANK 
MINUTES. YOU.
wat.
IT'S TRUE
The Digressional Choiceeurmir/BMo
HAS PUU6P CUT ft CHEVY 
IWCKAXIZ FROMMS 1WNKS MPmtESTHe 
MA5H6K OUT WITH 0H6 
BCOW-101HeUMR 
PINCH
POWN G MBO WITH 
f\ dOPi 5CAM !... ANP
Thhi/ metMSHex sclat\ HKTLAPiffmihe pmtnmi wa p pumasBMW P&HTTHZ
mo N6CK.L.
mjcwemxio 
"SffTURWy NIGHT mesnm..* sambo
1H6 BARBARIAN ANP 
THE MA5KP MA5H6R 
HAVe MSt 5TARTEP 
RWNP 0N6...
ONcetmN 
WeRBF Hisses ine
WHOie THING.
oS ,u"G OArx" 
Jit Mrku MbylhG
TbocScVcV p$p 3T9/XTm
PEER PRESSURE... 6M0T10NAL CRS6...l00m RAMS... 
UNDERARM HAIR... IT'S 
COMING ANPI CANT 
STOP IT. v
WHAT'S ADOUSCeNCe. 
COMING? RUSHING H6AP, I0NG1DWARPM6
m,MQwsez 
 IU 6T .RIP OUT. RMPIC50N
MI5S vACV. MVKNEtSCANPI CRACK6R6. (f x REAP 
\ THIS STUFF.
WHO'S
LOOKING?GmOVY, mm GwBS
Comics section of the Tartan seems 
bntroversy. This is mainly because 
to the views presented in some of
Lessee...
FOOP...
FICTION,
FASHION
'CMP! PIGS 
'THE0GEG6E6,
FR/SflK-PfSCO,
ANP R6P . M6AH * 
MOUSTACHES.' HOW ABOUT
\ , wee pwfies?
(T6 CHECK 
OUT A PLAYBOY. 
WHO'S 
tOOKING?
MGe1 
tpeep 
>,0B rr, 
MILO.
ig^, like any other form of comedic 
[fior and satire. It is meant to poke 
(e, places, things, events and situatjnist or satirist to display the ironies 
d from his/her point of view. Given 
make their way onto these pages, 
community to take these pages in 
Pportunity for us to laugh together5UR6 you PO.
IT'S INWUR 
BOTTOM 0RAW6R 
B6HINP M9UR S0GK5 
ANPUNPER XWR 
0RANG6 FAIR OF 
BIKINI BRI6F5.
WHflTWffi 
W CCTN& 
roKJNO^WDw1 PONT OWN 
ANY "FAAH 
FAwcerr 90DROI 
FlYE LliWi l*ed"
cutter, mjw you minp
IF T USfiPA UTTieOF'iOUR 
"FARRAH FAWCETT RAI5Y-FR65H 
CflME RINSE
COOKING 
FORTHAT 
SHOWER CAP
wuHi
IN THERECOURSE 
I PON Tcomte
$oTSMichael P. McHugh 
Art Editor
I

---------------------------------------------------

Open Five Days A Week
Wednesday from 4 p.m. to 12 a.m. 
Thursday through Saturday from 4 p.m. to 2 a.m.
Sunday from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m.
Happy Hours
Wednesday through Friday from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. 
Soda Spritzer 2 for l$1.00 Nachos
SCYard d w'** be closed Friday, Saturday and 
Sunday of mid-semester break due to the
Presidents Party.
Coming Soon: A New and Improved Menu

---------------------------------------------------

Attention Artists
We are now accepting submissions of drawings and illustra
tions for our new Gallery page. All submissions should be in 
black and white. If you are interested in having your work 
printed on the Gallery page, please contact Mike McHugh at 
either X2111 or X5994. You could also leave a message on the 
bulletin board outside the Tartan Main Office.
Illustration by Richard Smith
Comics in the News
MARCOS
&
by Nabli Liumang
Illustration by Elise Friedland
%
Illustration by Rob YaflV

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan Photographers:Meeting Thursday, February 20,4:00 p.m.All interested photographers welcome
VsUMMER CAMPUS
Positions In The Catskill Mountains of New York
Y CAMP SEQUOIA CAMP SHANE ^| Box 339 Femdale, N.Y. 12734 | I Rock Hill, N.Y. 12775 914-292-4644 i 914-679-5291 f 1 Traditional Co-Ed Camp Trim-Down 1 
90 miles NYC. Physical Fitness Camp f L Our 55th Year. 100 miles NYC. J^ CALL OR WRITE INDIVIDUAL CAMP FOR A 
APPLICATION Ag
INTERVIEWING ON CAMPUSMARCH 12
FIND YOUR PLACE 
IN THE SKY
If you have the talent, ambition and determination to become part of an elite group, you may have what it takes to meet the challenge of the infinite frontier...the sky.
Air Force pilots are a unique breed. They accomplish and experience 
things that are beyond the grasp of most people. They know the exhilaration of flying sophisticated multi million dollar aircraft that are on the leading edge of technology.
In addition; we can offer good starting pay with regular increases, 
complete medical and dental care, educational opportunities including college tuition, and 30 days of vacation with pay every year.
If you would like to share the skies with a very special group of people, please contactContact: SSgt. Loop 644-5837
mPrecision Haircuts custom designedfor the look you want
Precision I Designer. jUSf_A.cut Haircut Permn|v n|yM 3.00 *25.00 $8.00
Complete with shampoo I complt*wtth I preC|S,on haircut only 
blow style | guar^{2T, I
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED Great Styles Start at... noAPPOINTMENT l^EKBT NECESSARY |||Wfll 1No Appointments OfCmTWHS.
fflf illt utlo S,"s,b PRECISION HAIRCUTTERSSave$2.00 | 237 Atwood Street | on the Precision Haircut I Across the street from 1 Complete with shampoo a styling | Oakland Post Office
is,  687-3500
A great way of life h'OTtCtl
1
1
i
1
1
J
INVEST IN YOUR CAREER
Get a competitive edge!
We will conduct one-on-one coaching with you in 
Basic and Advanced Interviewing techniques
We use Videotaping with Feedback Sessions to instruct 
you in the critical points of an interview
We provide a final Videotape Interview that can be sent 
to selected employers
Call NOW for an appointment:
(412) 921-4707
VIDEO INTERVIEW
2 Parkway Center, Suite 250 
Pittsburgh, PA 15220
A Kirkwood Consulting Associates, Inc. subsiduary
' A company with professionals who have over 20 years experience with major U.S. corporations in the Personnel/Human Resources field.
i -
THE FAIRFAX APTS 11
^ WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS OF CMU 
^ REASONABLE RENTAL RATES!
^ THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND!
^ "THE FAIRFAX" ...4614 5th AVE.!
^ YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
Furnished Apts. Available
The management invites the Faculty Members, Graduate Students & CMU Guests to visit and inspect our ONE BEDROOM & STUDIO APARTMENTS
Available for immediate occupancy
Dial 621-4030We'll see YOU at "THE FAIRFAX" ...Neighbor.
* '.I.............. *..*.......................... -.............................- ---------------------------------------*-----------

---------------------------------------------------

Classifieds
Distinctive Wedding Invitation*. Announcements, 
Stationery, for all occasions. Fabulous selection, dis
count prices. J.R. Stationery shown by appointment. 
243-0380.
Parties, Parties. PartiesWe have everything for 
your party in our 10,000 square foot party super
market. Papermart, Baum Blvd at Morewood Street. 
681-8900.
Shadyside Apartment 3 rooms1 bedroom. 
Redecorated. Security System (wall-to-wall). 
621-2873
FEMALE ROOMMATE for large two bedroom 
apartment. Shadyside area. Modern kitchen and
bath. Bay windows and stained glass. Cellar, porch, 
and yard. Close to busline and stores. $ 190/mo. 
661-3779 best time 9-11 a.m.
Young Travellers Newsletter! Includes: 800 no.; 
travel partner service; features on exotic OVERSEAS 
budget travel, work, study! Send check (SI2/yr.) to: 
Y.T.N.. P.O. Box 3887. New Haven. CT 06525. 
Highway. Traffic & Street Signs. Official. Send SI 
for catalogue. De-sign store, P.O. Box 2781, Palm 
Beach. FL 33480.
NEW ENGLAND BROTHER/SISTER CAMPS
(Mass.) Mah-Kee-Nac for Boys/Danbee for Girls. 
Counselor positions for program specialists: All Team
Sports, especially Baseball, Basketball, Soccer, plus 
Archery, Riflery, and Biking. 25 Tennis openings. 
Also, performing Arts, Gymnastics, Rocketry, Ropes 
Course; All Waterfront Activitiesincluding Swim
ming. Skiing, Small Craft; plus Overnight Camping, 
Computers, Woodcraft and more. Inquire: J & D 
Camping, 190 Linden Avenue, Glen Ridge, NJ 
07028. Phone (201) 429-8522.
Discount on over 50 brands of audio and video 
equipment. Call Hal at 687-2859.
Act Now DiskettesBulk 5A DS/DD 49 cents each. 
Lots of 50. These are not 2nds. Money Back 
Guarantee no questions asked. POs accepted. Call 
1-800-633-9242, 9-9 EST M-F, 10-6 Sat. Offer ex
pires 3/1/86
Shadyside Apartment 1 Bedroom 3 rooms, security 
system, w/w redecorated.
ROOMATE WANTED for spacious 2BR apartment. 
Furnished, $190 includes all utilities. 20 minutes 
form CMU. Immediately. 687-7026 late eves.
Authentic Oriental Carpets. Direct sales from im- Writers Wanted. Call The Tartan at X2111 or 
porter. Call Hal at 68/-2859. drop by Skibo Rm. 50.
Announcements
President Cverts Office Hours. President Richard 
M. Cyert has open office hours for students on 
February 21, March 11 and April 4 from 3 pm to 
5 pm in his office, WH 602. Students who wish to 
meet with the president should telephone his 
secretary at 268-2200 to set up an appointment. 
Cape Cod Summer Job Bureau. Cape Cod, 
Massachusetts and the off- shore islands of Nantucket 
and Marthas Vineyard have more good paying jobs 
open to students and teachers this summer than ever 
before. Hiring goes on through June, but the choice 
jobs generally go to those who apply earliest. For im
mediate information on the many kinds of jobs 
available and details on how to apply send a selfaddressed stamped envelope to: Cape Cod Summer 
Job Bureau, Box 594, Room 8, Barnstable, MA 
02630.
Heart Association Guides Pittsburghers To A 
Healthy Heart. The Western Pennsylvania Chapter 
of the American Heart Association is teaming up with 
Allegheny Internationals AI Showcase to help Pitt
sburghers learn about cardiac fitness in their third 
annual Heart Health Month. Each day during lun
chtime, volunteers will demonstrate how to reduce 
the risk of heart disease by careful monitoring, ex
ercise and diet. Blood pressure screenings, exercise 
and conditioning, body analyses that measure in
dividual fat and muscle content, instructions in nutri
tion and recipes are given during this month. Events 
take place at AI Showcase in the Koppers Building 
at Seventh and Grant Streets.
Pittsburgh Playhouse Junior Children's Theatre. 
The Magic Horn of Charlemagne. A heroic story of 
young Roland, nephew of Charlemagne, who seeks 
to recover the Emperors famous sword Durandal 
from evil Falerine. Set against the background of the 
Middle Ages, this play brings the period and its peo
ple to life in a stirring adventure at 11 am and 2:30 
pm, Saturdays, and 2:30 pm, Sundays through 
March 29.
Up Gallery. Transitional Spaces: Designs by Pitt
sburgh Architects is presented through March 2. 
Gallery' hours are 10 am to 4 pm, Tuesday through 
Saturday; 2 pm to 5 pm, Sunday; closed Monday. 
Opening reception is on February 6 from 5 pm to
7 pm. The Gallery is on the corner of Forbes and 
South Bouquet.
Marcus Gordon Gallery. Six new etchings by Judy 
Barie are presented. Hugh Kepets, Paul Narkiewicz, 
Leslie Golomb, Nancy Hagin and Carolyn Brady also 
exhibit their work. The exhibition runs through March 
22. Gallery hours are 11 am to 5:30 pm, Monday 
through Saturday; 11 am to 8 pm, Thursday. The 
Gallery is on 416 Craig Street.
Pittsburgh Society of Artists. Flowers for Dona is 
shown through February 21 in the Pittsburgh Center 
for the Arts Courthouse Gallery/Forum. For infor
mation, call 392-8411.
Pittsburgh Center for the Arts. The annual exhibi
tion, Money is shown in the Main Gallery at the Pitt
sburgh Center for the Arts through February 23. Dale 
Luce, Mixed Media and Sculpture, exhibits his work 
in the AAP Gallery through February 23.
Robert Arneson: Points of View. Robert Arneson 
presents his ceramic sculptures, drawings and prints 
through March 16 at the Pittsburgh Center for the 
Arts Commons Room Gallery.
Mark Burns: A Decade in Pennsylvania, 
1975-1985. Mark Burns presents his ceramics and 
mixed media through March 23 at the Society for 
Art in Crafts, 719 Allegheny River Boulevard. Gallery 
hours are 10 am to 5 pm, Monday through Satur
day; and 1 pm to 5 pm, Sunday.
Art by Art Activists. Jerri Allyn, Nancy Buchanan, 
Joselito Fernandez, Gene Gort, Donald Harvey and 
Jerry Kearns present their work through March 1 at 
Gallery G (lower gallery), 211 Ninth Street. Gallery 
hours are 11 am to 5 pm, Monday through Friday;
11 am to 2 pm, Saturday.
DEBRA ABELL nSPSdermatologist
 student discount available
 easily accessible by bus from CMU
3500 Fifth Ave, Suite 102, Oakland 
682-0616
MasterCard, Visa accepted 
Call appointment
N,Bc:WP 
c W s W
Z.J
PERSONAL COMPUTER
TO ALL CARNEGIE MELLON
STUDENTS &
FACULTY
GET YOUR HANDS ON THE MOST 
TECHNOLOGICALLY ADVANCED PERSONAL 
COMPUTER IN ITS CLASS 
BY CALLING
es, N B 
BcMd:POw 
,,POM, 
(412) 342-5505 COLLECT
9 to 5 M-F
Political Statements in Clay. Dale Dapkins, James 
Dugas, Don Fisher, Peter Gourfain, Richards 
Lipscher, Kirk Mangus, and Jeff Schlanger exhibit 
their work through March 20 at the Clay Place, 5600 
Walnut Street. Gallery hours are 10 am to 5 pm, 
Monday through Saturday; 7 pm to 9 pm, Wednes
day.
Carnegie Institute, Museum of Art Tours.
Highlight Tours, 15-minute introductory talks on a 
different work each week through February 28, 2 
pm, Tuesday through Sunday. Free with museum ad
mission.
Carnegie Museum of Art Special Programs and 
Events. Saturdays at the Museum for Families and 
Friends, is held in the Childrens Room from 1:30 
pm to 3 pm. Advance registration. Call 622-3214. 
Carnegie Museum of Natural History. Nature 
Photography Programs. A variety of classes are of
fered from Basic Photography to Scenic Photography. 
Advance registration. Fees vary.
Carnegie Institute. Natural World Photographic 
Competition and Exhibition (Changing Exhibits 
Gallery) continues through March 16.
Velar Gallery. Memory 1986. Ten photographers, 
members of the Manchester Craftsmens Guild, ex
hibit their work through February 29. The Velar 
Gallery is in the lobby of the Graduate School of In
dustrial Administration and is open to the public 9 
am to 5 pm, Monday through Friday.
Countries in Crisis. Nancy Chunn exhibits her pain
tings through February 23 at the Hewlett Gallery, 
first floor of the College of Fine Arts. Gallery hours 
are 11 am to 4 pm, Tuesday through Friday; noon 
to 4 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm to 4 pm, Sunday. 
Preview is February 8 from 6 pm to 9 pm. 
Carnegie-Mellon University Art Gallery . Hilla and 
Bernd Becher: American Industrial Buildings is 
shown through March 9. Gallery hours are 10 am 
to 5 pm, Tuesday through Friday; 11 am to 5 pm, 
Saturday; and 1 pm to 4 pm, Sunday. The Gallery
is at 407 South Craig. Street.
Carnegie-Mellon University Art Gallery. The Art
Faculty Exhibit is shown through March 9. Gallery 
hours are 10 am to 5 pm, Tuesday through Friday;
11 am to 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm to 4 pm, Sun
day.
Forbes Gallery. The High Technology Show is on 
exhibit February 18 through February- 23. The open
ing is on February 18 from 7 pm to 9 pm. 
Refreshments are served. Gallery hours are 11 am 
to 6 pm, Wednesday through Friday, and noon to 
5 pm, Saturday and Sunday.
\ he W omen. The Department of Drama presents 
Clare Booths The Women, a comedy of American 
women in the 1930s. Performances run through 
February 22. Tickets are available at the Skibo In
formation Desk.
Second Burroughs Design Competition. Bur
roughs Corporation has announced the Second Bur
roughs Design Competition for outstanding examples 
of industrial design of products that incorporate com
puter capability and technology in the 
human/machine interface. The competition is open 
to upper level industrial design students and recent 
graduates in North America. First prize is a cash 
award of $10,000 to the designer. The educational 
sponsor of the first prize recipient receives a Bur
roughs B 25 business computer with printer. Second 
prize is $5,000 to the designer and third prize is 
$1,000. All entries must be received by March 31. 
Award winners will be notified by telegram after April 
15. Further information on the 1986 Burroughs 
Design Competition can be obtained from: Competi
tion Coordinator, Corporate Industrial Design, Bur
roughs Corporation, 41100 Plymouth Road, 
Plymouth, MI 48170. Telephone: 313-451-4468. 
Intervarsity Christian Fellowship. Daily prayer 
meetings are held at 6 pm in the Chapel, Skibo Room 
39, Monday through Saturday.
STACKn TOTE
STORAGE CONTAINERS
 Designer colors  Industrial strength
 Heavy duty plastic  In 2 sizes/6 colors
Create a storage wall - 
Perfect for books, toys, 
clothing, etc.
#3024 (19"Lx13"Wx11 "H)
$15/set of 3 + $3/set 
shipping charges 
($18/set total)
#3016 (131/"Lx13!/4"Wx11 "H) 
$10/set of 3 + $3/set 
shipping charges 
($13/set total)
COLORS:wOp FyNPOp eRsBTp eR:O ORRcF EMsweRO.IO
I niu   - f lit ritl"nru
! RO. Box 35
J Shrewsbury, NJ 07701
! NAME_________________________
?
* * * *
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
L
ADDRESS 
CITY____STATEZIP
Item #_Quantity
? Check enclosed 
Total Payment:___
(sold in sets of 3 only)
Color(s)__
N J residents add sates tax
(includes S3/set shipping & handling)
012

---------------------------------------------------

Events
18
Tuesday
Movies
Macbeth, starring Jeanette Nolan, 
Dan O'Herlihy and Roddy McDowaU. An oddity that 
defies explanation. You'Ll need some patience to get 
through this one. This is the original version of the 
film, not the edited version, which is twenty minutes 
shorter. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 
pm. Admission $2.95.
Sports
Womens Basketball. Home game against Thiel 
College at 6 pm.
Men's Basketball. Home game against Thiel Col
lege at 8 pm.
Lectures
H&SS Distinguished Lecture Series. Stephen 
Fienberg, Falk Professor of Statistics and Social 
Sciences, speaks on Marching to Pretoria: Some in
formal observations from a recent visit to South 
Africa1 at 3:30 pm in the Adamson Wing. Recep
tion follows.
H&SS Majors Information Series. A session about 
career decision making is offered for sophomores to 
help explore options to make the most of your time 
at Carnegie-Mellon. A special opportunity for H&SS 
sophomores to take an inventory relating your in
terests to majors and careers is also presented from 
3 pm to 4 pm or 4:30 pm to 5:30 pm in PH 21.
Greater Pittsburgh Sexuality Council Presenta
tion. Susan Kullman Ph.D. speaks on Pregnancy 
for Women in Their Thirties4 and Joni Siff. M.S.W., 
speaks on Self-Help Management of Cystitis4 at 5:30 
pm at the Tree of Life Synagogue at Shady and 
Wilkins.
Wednesday
19
Movies
Suddenly Last Summer, starring 
Elizabeth Taylor, Montgomery Clift and Katharine 
Hepburn. Tennessee Williams erotic story of an 
elusive man who haunts his wife and mother after 
his death. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 
pm. Admission $2.95.
Allonsanfan, sponsored by the Pittsburgh Film
makers at 6:30 pm and 8:45 pm, Wednesday and 
Thursday; 6:30 pm, 8:45 pm, and 11 pm, Friday;
8 pm and 10:15 pm, Saturday; and 6 pm and 8:15 
pm Sunday. Fulton Theater, 101 Sixth Street.
Sports
Swimming. Away game against Slippery Rock 
University at 4 pm.
Lectures
Department of Mechanical Engineering Cuest 
Lecture Series. Professor Normand M. Laurendeau, 
Purdue University, speaks on Concentration 
Measurements in Flames4 at 3:15 pm in Scaife Hall 
Auditorium. Coffee and Donuts are served at 2:45 
pm in the Scaife Hall Lounge, room 322.
Visiting Writers Series. Jon Silkin, poet, speaks at
8 pm in the Adamson Wing. For more information 
call Jim Daniels: 268-2866.
Open Forum on Inter-dating. Rabbi Joseph H. 
Levine of Bnai Brith Hillel leads an open discus
sion on inter-dating and inter-marriage at noon in 
room 212 of the William Pitt Union at the Universi
ty of Pittsburgh. A free kosher deli sandwich lunch 
will be provided. For reservations and more informationt-eali 621-8875.
Clubs
AIESEC, an international, student-run business 
organization, offers a world of experience, both prac
tical and cultural. Meetings are held at 4:30 pm in 
Skibo room 11.
French Table. The Modern Languages Program 
sponsors a French Language Table every Wednes
day at noon at the Morewood Cafeteria.
Alpha Phi Omega, meets at 8:30 in the Adamson 
Wing.
Thursday
20
Movies
The Treasure of the Sierra 
Madre, starring Humphrey Bogart, Walter Huston 
and Tim Holt. One of Bogarts best about a trio of 
greedy prospectors looking for gold. Oscars to John 
Huston and his father Walter. Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7:30 pm and 9:40 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lady Sings the Blues, sponsored by AB Films. DH 
2210 at 6 pm, 8:30 pm and 11 pm. Admission $1.
Sports
Fencing. Home game against Penn State-Fayette at 
5:30 pm.
Lectures
Bioengineering Graduate Program Seminar. Pro
fessor Alan S. Waggoner, Associate Professor, 
Biological Sciences, speaks of The Use of Florescence 
Detection in Biomedicine at 12:30 pm in DH 1102. 
A light lunch is served at noon prior to the seminar 
and a question-and-answer session follows.
Special Programs
Calling on Congress. Pennsylvanias two U.S. 
Senators and two of Pittsburghs Congressmen take 
questions from viewers in the region on a live, 
WQED-produced special at 9 pm on WQED/13. The 
number to call is 621-5808. Telephone lines open 
at 8 pm.
Slide Program. The Pittsburgh Council, American 
Youth Hostels presents a free slide program of bicy
cle touring and hosteling in Europe at 8 pm at AYH 
Council Headquarters at Fifth and Shady avenues, 
adjacent to the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts.
Museum of Art Special Programs and Events.
Parent/Child ARTexpress provides weekly activities 
for adults and children from 10 am to 11:30 am 
every Thursday. Advance registration. For more in
formation call 622-3241.
Workshops
Second Interviews: Site Visits. A discussion of the 
dynamics of the second interview with a company: 
How to prepare for it; what may occur during the 
visit; what may be expected of you... at 11:30 am 
in Skibo Room 45.
Music
Convocation. A program on Opera Workshop 
Scenes is presented at 12:30 pm in tlie Alumni Con
cert Hall, CFA.
Clubs
German Table. The Modem Languages Program 
sponsors a German Language table at noon in the 
Morewood Cafeteria.
CMU Explorers Club. If youre interested in rock 
climbing, kayaking, caving and hiking, come to a 
meeting at 6:30 pm in BH 13IB. Trips every 
weekend. Beginners are welcome.
21
Friday
Movies
22
Saturday
Movies
23
Sunday
Movies
Marx Brothers Double Bill: Duck
Soup, The brothers and Margaret Dumont in 
Fredonia, A Night at the Opera, The brothers have 
a go at opera in this masterpiece of madness. Pitt
sburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 10:15 pm. Ad
mission $2.95.
Silverado, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at 6 
pm, 8:30 pm, and 11 pm. Admission $1.
You Do the Crime, You Do the Time, In 1979 
NY filmmaker Martine Barrat gave her video camera 
to the Roman Kings, a ghetto street gang in NYCs 
South Bronx, to record their life in the gang. The 
result is an extraordinary document of gang ritual 
and adolescent relationships that includes an inter
view with Vickie, 18-year-old ex-president of the 
Roman Queens, and a gang trial of a member charg
ed with mugging an old woman in front of the 
clubhouse. Pittsburgh Filmmakers, the Media Arts 
Center, 205 Oakland Avenue at 8 pm. Admission
Sports
Men's Basketball. Away game against Bethany Col
lege at 8 pm.
Clubs
Intervarsity Christian Fellowship. Large group 
meetings are held at 7 pm in Skibo Room 12.
42nd Street, starring Warner Bax
ter, Dick Powell and Ruby Keeler. Terrific musical 
about the producer who puts on the big show and 
the understudy who saves the show. Wonderful 
Busby Berkeley numbers. Basis for the current 
Broadway show. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm 
and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Allonsanfan, sponsored by the Pittsburgh Film
makers at 6:30 pm and 8:45 pm, Wednesday and 
Thursday; 6:30 pm, 8:45 pm, and 11 pm, Friday;
8 pm, and 10:15 pm, Saturday; and 6 pm and 8:15 
pm, Sunday. Fulton Theater, 101 Sixth Street.
Black History Film Series: Tribute to Unique 
Genre, Screening of Portrait of Jason, If There 
Weren't Any Blacks, Youd Have to Invent Them 
at 7 pm in the Skibo Wherrett Room.
Music
Wagner-Flying Dutchman Overture. New work by 
composer Nancy Caibraith Dvorak. Alumni Concert 
Hall, CFA.
Special Programs
Celebrate Life! A musical/drama of the life of Jesus 
Christ is presented at 7:30 pm at The Presbyterian 
Church, Sewickley.
24
Monday
Movies
St. Elmos Fire, starring Ally 
Sheedy, Judd Nelson and Andrew McCarthy. A 
bunch of college graduates hang around together a 
year after school. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 
9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
1984, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm,
8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight. Admission $1.
You Do the Crime, You Do the Time, In 1979 
NY filmmaker Martine Barrat gave her video camera 
to the Roman Kings, a ghetto street gang in NYCs 
South Bronx, to record their life in the gang. The 
result is an extraordinary document of gang ritual 
and adolescent relationships that includes an inter
view with Vickie, 18-year-old ex-president of the 
Roman Queens, and a gang trial of a member charg
ed with mugging an old woman in front of the 
clubhouse. Pittsburgh Filmmakers, the Media Arts 
Center, 205 Oakland Avenue at 8 pm. Admission 
$3.
Sports
\\ omens Basketball. Away game against Bethany 
College at 2 pm.
Music
Paul Christiansens Concordia Choir. Paul Chris
tiansens choir performs a concert sponsored by 
North Hills Passavant Hospital at 8 pm in the North 
Hills Junior High School Auditorium, 55 Rochester 
Road. Tickets $8.50 or $6.50 for a group of 20 or 
more. Tickets on sale at North HiBs Passavant 
Hospital, 9100 Babcock Blvd.
Giant, starring Rock Hudson, 
Elizabeth Taylor, James Dean and Sal Mineo. A 
sprawling epic of a film about wealthy Texas ranchers,
oil and money. Deans last film. Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Art History Film Series; The Prinimakers,
Daumier: Paris and the Spectator and Goya: His Life 
and Art are shown at 7:30 pm at the King Estate.
If you wish to place an announcement, classified 
ad, miscellaneous item, or event in The Tartan send 
it in care o/'Leslie Gordon/ACME, Public Relations, 
Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA. 15213; 
send it via campus mail to the above address; or drop 
it off at 5017 Forbes Ave. Events may be sent through 
computer mail to TT999TF. Only classified ads will 
be accepted over the phone.
Please include the following information when sub
mitting events: title of event, sponsor, brief description, 
location, date, and time. In addition, include the 
name and phone number of the person submitting; this 
information will be used only to confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the accuracy or 
validity of any Events listings. In addition, it reserves 
the right to edit or omit any listing for publication.
Classified ad forms are available in our office.
All events are free of charge and open to the general 
CMU student population unless otherwise noted.
Deadline for Acme Submissions is Wednesday at 5 
pm for the next week's issue. If you have any com
ments or suggestions, send them to any of the addresses 
listed above.

---------------------------------------------------

Senate
Remember
Joe MurphyCIT 
Phone: x4109 
Office Hours: 
Tuesday 3:30-4:30
Matthew NoesonCIT 
Phone: x4338 
Office Hours:
Thursday 11:30-12:30
Jean NovakSUPA 
Phone: 661-C528 
Office Hours: 
Monday 2:30-3:30
David SolomonMCS 
Phone: 421 5546 
Office Hours: 
Wednesday 4:30-5:30
Brett WhyselH&SS 
Phone: x4474 
Office Hours: 
Tuesday 12:30-4:30
Tom TrampelCIT 
Phone: 421-5546 
Office Hours: 
Tuesday 11:30-12:30
Hour
Friday, Feb. 
at Scotland
28, 4:30 
Yard
Uday PatnaikH&SS 
Phone: x4082 
Office Hours:
Friday 2:30-3:30
Cindy TaylorMCS 
Phone: x3975 
Office Hours: 
Monday 9:30-10:30
Sponsored by Student 
Senate
Pictured Are:
Richard SheinfeldGSIA 
Phone: 521-4559 
Office Hours:
Wednesday 10:30-11:30
Christian Planchette!GSIA 
Phone: 422 7083 
Office Hours:
Eric Rocher
Student Senate Chairman 
Phone: x4795
Office Hours: Tuesday 6:00-7:00
Ed WelshCIT 
Phone: 421 8559 
Office Hours: 
Thursday 3:30-4:30
Room 59, Skibo
Evan McDonnellCIT 
Phone: 681-3249 
Office Hours: 
Thursday 2:30-3:30
Tamal MukherjeeCIT 
Phone: x4552 
Office Hours:
Friday 10:30-11:50
Andy LeeCIT 
Phone: 421-5546 
Office Hours: 
Thursday 12:30-1:30
Peter LonskyH&SS 
Phone: 441-4973 
Office Hours:
Friday 3:30-4:30

---------------------------------------------------

IS IMKM6 FM NWim OWL
When you spend four years cooking eight tons 
of pitchblende down to a single gram of radium, 
thats perseverance.
Perseverance, and the confidence to know 
when youre right, and the courage to keep going.
Wed like to find a few more people like that.
We have a lot to offer in exchange. As a world
wide group of companies, with galaxy-wide inter
ests, we have room for tons of raw materials and 
time for years of patience. And sometimes it seems
almost everyone heres an engineer, right up to the 
top, so we speak your language.
Were the worlds largest maker of helicopters, 
aircraft engines, elevators, escalators, and air 
conditioners. Theres always something cooking in 
spacesuits or fiber optics. Were at the center.
Check us out. Stop in at the campus placement 
office, or write for more information to: United 
Technologies Corporation, P.O. Box 1379, Hart
ford, CT 06143.
UNITED TECHNOLOGIES
United Technologies means 
Pratt &. Whitney, Hamilton 
Standard, Otis, Carrier, 
Automotive Group, United 
Technologies Microelectronics 
Center, Norden, Chemical 
Systems, Essex, Sikorsky 
and United Technologies 
Research Center.
An equal opportunity 
employer.

---------------------------------------------------

Strategies for success
Features
By KATHY MURTAUGH
Tartan Staffwriter
Strategies for Success, a career conference 
for women, sponsored by Chevrolet, was held 
last weekend at Pittsburghs Hilton.
Featuring dynamic speakers from all over the 
country, the conference focused on womens 
concerns as they face the challenges of the 
changing work force.
Barbara Soriano, author and educator, forcasted job trends which will occur as technology 
alters the work place.
According to Ms. Soriano, there are economic 
trends taking place of which women should be 
aware.
She predicts that the United States will no 
longer be a major manufacturing employer 
although it might remain a major manufactur
ing country.
In the 1960s, 22% of the work force was 
based in manufacturing. This statistic has drop
ped to 15% toddy, and will plummet to 
8%-ll% by the vear 2000.
Ms. Soriano explained, As companies enter 
into industry, wage scales rise. When wage 
scales rise, products become more expensive 
and other countries enter the market. She cited 
Japan as an example of this, in the automobile 
industry.
GM has, on board, plans for getting entire
ly out of the automobile industry by the year 
2000, she added. According to Ms. Soriano,
GM will form companies dealing with technology 
and robotics.
In order for companies to maintain com- As women begin to work at home again, say 
petitiveness in the U.S., they must enter new on word processors, they may be asked to pertechnology which allows them to run more effi- form traditional functions in that setting. They 
ciently. This fact, however, raises concern for are viewed, again, as one who is there to nurthose who will be replaced by high-tech ture and support rather than to direct, stated 
machinery. Soriano.
According to Soriano, there will be a new flux According to Ms. Soriano, several things 
of workers into information-based and service- could work in the opposite direction, as well, 
based industries. Due to great advancements She believes that people will require an office 
in telecommuncations and information systems, space to protect themselves from going stir crazy 
it is predicted that many office functions will in the home. She predicts that there will be 
be performed in the home. It is this prediction shared office spaces with home-like facilities 
in her opinion, that makes attitudes toward which could be used, also, to entertain business 
women in the workplace difficult to forecast, guests.
Speaker at Strategies Seminar
If we keep our feet in both worlds, we will 
be inclined to draw the line between household 
and business time within the home. she stated.
As information bases become more and more 
expert, people will not, according to Soriano be 
valued by what information they possess for in
formation will be stored on computers. People 
will learn to use computers through interactive 
video education to gain access to information.
What does this mean to workers? According 
to Ms. Soriano, it means that people will no 
longer work in groups concerned with specific 
subjects. It will be easier to work across groups. 
For example, a health service worker can readi
ly work with and architect or lawyer.
What will make people marketable is not 
their information; but people-oriented skills, 
stated Soriano. According to her, it will be more 
important to be sensitive to others needs, to 
be a good listener, and to team well with others.
Technology will come in at an ever increas
ing rate. The cycle for change is getting shorter 
and we must consider that for the rest of our 
lives we will be learning technology, said 
Soriano.
Because of technology, we will be granted the 
freedom to try entirely new things simply 
because we like the field. According to Soriano, 
we will no longer be afraid to try new things 
because we can't retain the necessary 
information.
She explained, There will be people on your 
team with in-depth knowledge who prefer not 
to deal with people and will require your com
munication skills to sell a product or service. 
By 1995, 75% of all married couples will be 
working and are likely to have children. Soriano 
stated, A whole range of services will be re
quired by these couples such as grocery shop
ping and child care.
Although such services might be demanded 
and indeed profitable, one might wonderwhy 
bother to obtain a college degree? Ms. Soriano 
emphasized that college instills certain problem 
solving skills essential to success.
We can learn from History and Art to com
pare. History will be something we enjoy rather 
than a regurgitation of facts.
According to Soriano, these academic 
disciplines will develop more effective com
municators who are sensitive to what societys 
needs are and aware of developing trends. She 
advised women to scan their environment, listen 
to what peoples needs are, and think of ser
vices to fulfuill those needs.
Ms. Soriano, who believes that women have, 
in general, possessed greater interpersonal skills 
and sensitivity concluded her lecture, I am 
very glad that women are finally going to be paid 
for something theyve done well for a long 
time.
Happy hearts, lonely hearts
By CHRISTY CASAMASSIMA
Tartan Feature's Editor
If vou had a lonely heart this Valentine s 
Day, you were not alone. Although seme con
tend that Christmas can be the loneliest holi
day, I disagreeValentines has got to top the 
list.
If you werent with your sweetheart, or if you 
dont happen to have one, Valentine s Day may 
have been more painful to you than a shot with 
cupids bow.
But consider the bright side:
First of all, vou werent sucked into the con
sumer aspect of the holiday. The greeting card 
industry made no profits from your end; the 
w riters had to peddle their sap to some other 
Valentine victim who had no choice but to 
choose from the overpriced assortment of 
Hallmarks. And what about those chocolates.'* 
^ ou should be thankful that no one thought to 
send vou a 5 lb. box of delicious hand dipped 
chocolates. What would that do to your diet.'* 
Besides. Ladv Godiva happens to be doing well 
enough without vou. Think of all the money you 
saved on lacev lingerie or bright red boxers 
youve alwavs considered red underwear tacky 
any wav.
Now vour roomate has to contend with 
<lisciphcring the hidden messages underlying 
his/her Valentine's card; what s worse it s from 
an anonvmous admirer. 1 guess I m luckv 
l>ecause I don't have to deal with these com
plexities of love.
So if the most romantic \ alentrne vou ret icv
o
O
o
ed was from your little brother or sister, do not 
dismay. At least your little sibling doesn't de
mand anything.
Just think, only about three hundred sixty one 
days until next Valentines Dayby then you 
might be able to come up with a sweetheart.
Imagine what fun it will 
happy loving couple that 
sick to their stomach.
be being a part of a 
makes everyone else

---------------------------------------------------

Page 28The TartanFebruary 18, 1986Valentines Day 1985
Katie Martinelli 
wins for best 
female chest.
Collecting money for M.S.
Scotland Yard was alive with the Sexy 
Bod>parts contest. Here Sue Devoy wins the 
sexiest legs competition.
Photos by Albrecht Powell 
and Jack Poller.
The Affordable Floor put on a 
the Lonely Hearts Dance.
Members of Our Technical Staff
March 7,1986
Research challenges for PhD/MS graduates with 
interests in
 Machine Intelligence  Optics
 VLSI  Digital Sy stems Design
 Image Processing  Satellite Communications
 Signal Processing  Microelectronics
To arrange an interview, contact your Placement Office or 
send your resume to Marilyn L. Bodnar, MIT Lincoln 
Laboratory, 244 Wood Street, Lexington, MA 02173 
(617-863-5500, ext. 7050). U.S. Citizenship required.
An equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH
INPO FELLOWSHIP IN HEALTH PHYSICS
AVAILABLE
The Institute of Nuclear Power Operations (INPO) has 
awarded a fellowship in the field of health physics to the 
University of Pittsburgh Department of Radiation Health 
for the 1986-87 academic year. The fellowship will be of
fered to a masters level student who intends to pursue 
a career in power generation health physics. It will pro
vide the student with a stipend of $6,500 and a $2,500 
educational allowance. For further information contact Dr. 
Joseph A. Watson, A512 Crabtree Hall, Graduate School 
of Public Health, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 
15261, (412) 624-2732.
CLASS RINGS
> 1985 AnCarved Class Rings
Thursday & Friday February 20 & 21 
10 am4 pm 
Skibo

---------------------------------------------------

February 18, 1986The TartanPage 29
Ask Theo: New advice column
.. .and ye shall receive.
A new era begins in the next issue of The Tartan. Ask Theo, an advice column for 
the poor, the lonely, and the sick of heart makes its first appearance.
Has your sweetheart dumped you for the entire football team? Did someone steal your 
last roll of toilet paper? Is your garbage disposal broken? Theo can help you out. Send 
him your problems, your qualms, your Physics assignment. Theo will find the answers.
If you are lost and dont know where to turn, just Ask Theo, and hell help you see 
the light.
Direct all letters to the Tartan office, Room 50, Skibo.
Humanitarian Award
Ann Titus, a first-year student at CarnegieMellon Universitys Graduate School of In
dustrial Administration (GSIA), has received a 
Notre Dame University humanitarian award.
Titus received the Dr. Thomas A. Dooley 
Award given by Norte Dames Alumni Associa
tion at a Jan. 31 banquet. The award is made 
to a recent graduate who has engaged in ex
traordinary service for the benefit of his or her 
fellowmen.
As the first VISTA volunteer for the Food 
Pantry Program, Titus was responsible for set
ting up the Greater Pittsburgh Community Food 
Bank and a series of satellite food banks in 
Allegheny County.
What started out as a food bank distributing 
110,000 pounds of food monthly in 1981 has 
increased seven times Titus says.
A graduate of Taylor-Allerdice High School, 
Titus received her bachelors degree in theology 
from Notre Dame in 1980. She is the daughter 
of Mr. and Mrs. Paul Titus of Point Breeze.
Titus will complete her masters degree in in
dustrial administration in 1987.
Stan says: write for features.
Leading Edge
Model D
 IBMCapatiMe
 -JMK Drifts
 IS Meath Warraaty
 mhMchri Mcafter /Graphics
8 56dY YDn Upgradeable to 64IK
 Leading Edge Ward Fracasser
I (AD INC I DC I*
Computer k wbTed a
Add S150 for 640K Upgrade Add S350 for Cotar Systea
Parkway Center Mall 
Pittsburgh, PA 15220
(412) 921-3211
Mon.-Fri. 10-9; Sot. 10-6
SPECIAL INTEREST HOUSE 
APPLICATIONS NOW AVAILABLE
Wanted- Ugly People To Run For 
Ugliest Man On Campus
If your re interested and ugly, please 
contact Marc at x-4064 or MB2L#TB to 
arrange a photo appointment Contest 
wflt be held on March 19 and 20 Prizes 
will be awarded Enter now and you could 
win the coveted title of UMXI
Proceeds To Benefit Rehabilitation Institute 
Of Pittsburgh
The Housing Office is now accepting applications from groups 
of resident students who would like to be considered for residen
cy in one of the four SPECIAL INTEREST HOUSES.
Each SPECIAL INTEREST HOUSE is a 4-bedroom. 8-person 
apartment in the Margaret Morrison Residence Complex. In order 
to be eligible for consideration as a SPECIAL INTEREST HOUSE, 
a student group must have at least eight members, and one or 
more alternates if at all possible.
The specific goal of the Housing Office in providing the SPECIAL 
INTEREST HOUSES is to encourage situations where the living 
environment compliments the learning opportunities of the 
residents involved and where specific educational goals outlin
ed by the member-residents are understood and enhanced
If more than four groups of students submit applications for these 
SPECIAL INTEREST HOUSES, a decision will be based on a com
parison of the educa' onal goals presented and the likelihood of 
serious educational benefit being derived from residency in this 
type of living situation.
Application forms are available in the Housing Office in 
Morewood Garddens and must be filled out and returned by
February 25th, 1986.
Illustration by Nabil Liumang

---------------------------------------------------

FINALS
POLICY
The Faculty Senate adopted the following policies on the administration of 
final examinations for the Undergraduate courses:
1. all final exams shall be given in the final exam period;
2. the reading day and weekend preceding exams shall never be used for
exam purposes of any kind;
3. faculty shall not exert or submit to pressure to move an exam so 
that people can leave earlier;
4. no student shall be required to take more than two exams on a given 
finals day; the registrar shall assist the student in resolving 
conflicts;
5. no critiques or juries shall be scheduled on the last day of classes;
6. papers shall be made due no later than on the last day of classes;
7. take-home exams shall be given for any 24-hour period of the
student's choosing during the final exam period.
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES
03121MODERN BIOLOGYWEDMAY7100-400PMDH2210
03122ORGANISMIC BOTANYTHUMAY1530-830PMWEH5427
03230GENETICSTHUMAY8100-400PMDH A317, DH1211
03244EXP TECH IN BIOCHEMTUEMAY6830-1130AMWEH5403
03350DEVELOPMNTL BIOLOGYTHUMAY1100-400PMWEH5427
03432BIOCHEMISTRY IIFRIMAY2100-400PMDH1112
03441MOL BIO PROKARYOTEMONMAY5830-1130AMDH2105
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
06101INTRO TO CHEM ENGRTHUMAY8100400PMDH1212
06152PRINC OF FLUID MECHTHUMAY1830-1130AMDH1112
06202UNIT OPERATIONSTUEMAY6830-1130AMDH1212
06304ECON & OPTIMIZATIONTHUMAY1830-1130AMHH B103
06309PHY CHM COLLDS SURFMONMAY5100-400PMDH2200
06702ADV AP REAC KINETCSTHUMAY8830-1130AMDH A317
06707PHY CHM COLLDS SURFMONMAY5100-400PMDH2200
06715ADV PROC SYNTHESISFRIMAY2530-830PMDH1209
CHEMISTRY
09104CH ASP ORG BIO MTLTUEMAY6830-1130AMDH1112
09105DYNAMICS & EQUILIBTUEMAY6100-400PMDH1112,
09106BONDING STRUC PRINCMONMAY5530-830PMDH2210
09117ORGANIC CHEMISTRY IMONMAY5100-400PMDH1112
09142PHYSCL CHEMISTRY ITUEMAY6530-830PMWEH5427
09218ORGAN CHEMISTRY IIFRIMAY2530-830PMWEH7500
09244PHYS CHEMISTRY IIITHUMAY1100-400PMDH1212
09248INORGANIC CHEMISTRYMONMAY5530-830PMWEH5427
09441NUCLEAR & RADIOCHEMTUEMAY6100-400PMDH2105
09570MOLECULAR BIOPHYSTUEMAY6100-400PMDH2122
09731RADIOCHEMISTRYTUEMAY6100-400PMDH2105
CIVIL ENGINEERING
12208DYNAMICSFRIMAY2530-830PMPH21
12212SOLID MECHANICSTHUMAY1530-830PMPH107A
12325SOIL MECHANICSTUEMAY6100-400PMBH245
12602SYSTEM ANALY IN C EFRIMAY2830-1130AMPH126A
12621STRUCTURAL MECH IIMONMAY5830-1130AMPH125B
12632WATER RESOURCE ENGRMONMAY5530-830PMPH20
12635ENVR ENG WTR/WSTWTRFRIMAY2100-400PMPH123B
12640CMPTR-AID TOOLS C ETHUMAY1100-400PMPH125B
12705PROJ MGT & FINANCETHUMAY8830-1130AMPH126A
12713SP TPC ENG PLAN MGTMONMAY5530-830PMPH123B
12726MATH MDL ENV QUA SYTHUMAY1830-1130AMBH131A
12783SOIL DYNAMICSTHUMAY8830-1130AMSH422
COMPUTER SCIENCE
15117INTRO COMPUT LISPTHUMAY 1830-1130AMWEH5201
15200SRV PRGMNG MTH APPLWEDMAY 7100-400PMDH1212
15211FUND STRUC PRGRM IWEDMAY 7100-400PMWEH7500
15212FUND STRUC PRGRM IIMONMAY 5530-830PMPH100, WEH7500
15312CMPRTV PRGRMNG LANG
ATHUMAY 8100-400PMPH100
BTHUMAY 8100-400PMMM103
15382ARTFCL INT VSN/MOTNMONMAY 5530-830PMMM103
15411-COMPILER DESIGNTHUMAY 1830-1130AMPH21
15412OPERATING SYSTEMSMONMAY 5530-830PMDH1212
15413SOFTWARE ENGINEERNGFRIMAY 2100-400PMWEH5205
15451APPL ALGRTHM DESIGNTHUMAY 1830-1130AMPH20
15453FRM LANG & AUTOMATAFRIMAY 2830-1130AMWEH5427
15462COMPUTER GRAPHICSWEDMAY 7100-400PMDH2315
15740COMPUTER SYST CORETHUMAY 8830-1130AMWEH5403
ELECTRICALAND COMPUTER ENGINEERING
18100FUND ELEC COMP ENGRMONMAY 5530-830PMDH231518102ELECTRNC CIRCUITS ITUEMAY 6100400PMDH2315, MM1418113ELECTRICAL ENGR IATHUMAY 18301130AMPH10018131DIGITAL SYSTEMSTHUMAY 8830-1130AMPH10018133INTR TO DIGITAL SYSTHUMAY 1530-830PMPH10018218LINEAR SYSTMS ANALYTHUMAY 1100-400PMDH23151822ANALY DES DGTL CIRCMONMAY 5830-1130AMPH1008236INTRO SOL ST ELCTRNTUEMAY 6530-830PMPH10018304FLDS WAVE TRN LINESFRIMAY 2530-830PMSH42218310FUND COMMUNCTN SYSTTHUMAY 1530-830PMWEH750018332SEMICNDCT DEV AP IITUEMAY 6100-400PMHH B10318341ELECTROMECHANICSFRIMAY 2100-400PMSH21218349CNCUR REAL-TIME SYSFRIMAY 2530-830PMDH231518354APPLIED MAGNETICSMONMAY 5530-830PMPH19A18702FIN EL METH EL ENGRFRIMAY 2530-830PMSH32418722SEMICNDCT DEV AP IITUEMAY 6100-400PMHH B10318851ADV TPCS MAGNETISMTUEMAY 6100-400PMSH212
ENGINEERING AND PUBLIC POLICY
19319LAW & THE ENGINEERTHUMAY 8830-1130AMPH125C
19420CHM TCH ENVRN & SOCTUEMAY 6530-830PMPH125C
MATHEMATICS
21111CALCULUS ITUEMAY6530-830PMDH1212
21112CALCULUS IIFRIMAY2530-830PMDH2210,MM103
21121CALCULUS ITUEMAY6530-830PMWEH7500
21122CALCULUS & LIN ALGFRIMAY2100-400PMDH2210,DH2315,WEH750021127DISCR MATH CMPTR SCTHUMAY8100-400PMDH2210,DH231521257OPTMZTN SOC SCI ITHUMAY8830-1130AMDH1212
21258OPTMZTN SOC SCI IITHUMAY8830-1130AMDH2210,DH231521259CALCULUS IN 3-DTUEMAY6530-830PMDH2210,DH231521260DIFFRENTL EQUATIONSTUEMAY6830-1130AMDH2210,DH2315, WEH750021292OPERATIONS RSCH IMONMAY5100-400PMDH2315,WEH7500, DH1212
21301COMBINATORICSTUEMAY6100-400PMHH B131
21341LINEAR ALGEBRAFRIMAY2530-830PMDH1212,DH111221369NUMERICAL METHODSWEDMAY7530-830PMDH2315
21455ADV CALCULUS ITHUMAY1830-1130AMWEH642321473ALGEBRAIC STRUCTTHUMAY8830-1130AMMM103
21476ORD DIFF EQUATIONSTHUMAY1530-830PMWEH540321484APPL GRAPH THEORYTUEMAY6100-400PMPH10021485MATHEMATICAL MODELSTUEMAY6830-1130AMPH10021552MATHMTCL LOGIC IITHUMAY8100-400PMWEH642321706COMPLEX ANALYSISTHUMAY1830-1130AMWEH5403
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING24112FLUID MECHANICSTUEMAY6530-830PMHH B103,HH B13124121THERMODYNAMICS ITHUMAY1830-1130AMSH12524202MECH DFRMBL SOLIDSFRIMAY2530-830PMHH B103,HHB13124203STRESS ANALYSISTUEMAY6100-400PMSH12524215POTENTL FLOW AERODYTUEMAY6530-830PMSH220, SH22424233HEAT TRANSFERFRIMAY2100-400PMSH42224246FEEDBK CNTRL SYSTMSTHUMAY1100-400PMSH12524248KINMTCS DYN MCHNSMSTUEMAY6100-400PMSH220
METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING AND MATERIALS SCIENCE 
27131 MATERIALS SCIENCE
A,B,CTHUMAY8830-1130AMSH125
D,E,FTHUMAY8830-1130AMWEH7500
G,H, ITHUMAY8830-1130AMHH B103
27216TRANSPRT & KINETICSTHUMAY1100-400PMDH A317
27322PROCESS METALLURGYFRIMAY2830-1130AMDH A317
27332PHYS METALLURGY IITHUMAY1830-1130AMDH2105
27442PLAST FRAC OF MTLSTHUMAY1100-400PMDH1209
27530PHY MET ALLOY STEELMONMAY5830-1130AMWEH5205
27532MTL ASP SMCND DV IITUEMAY6830-1130AMWEH5205
27552CERAMICS & GLASSESFRIMAY2830-1130AMWEH5205
27780THERMODYNAMICSTUEMAY6100-400PMDH A317
27781TRANSPRT PROPERTIESMONMAY5100-400PMDH A317
27784STRENGTHENING MTHDSTUEMAY6530-830PMDH1112
27788DEFECTS IN SOLIDSTUEMAY6530-830PMWEH5205
PHYSICS
33113PHYS MUSICAL SOUNDWEDMAY7830-1130AMDH2210
33116INTRODUCT PHYSICSTHUMAY1830-1130AMDH1212, DH A317
33121PHYSICS I MECHANICSTHUMAY1830-1130AMPH125C
33122PHYSICS II HT WV OPTHUMAY1830-1130AMDH2210, DH2315,
ADAMSON, HH B133
MM14
33123PHYSICS III EL MAGTUEMAY6100-400PMADAMSON
33125INTRO TO ASTRONOMYWEDMAY7530-830PMDH2210
33131PHYSCL MECHANICS IIMONMAY5830-1130AMDH1112
33134MODERN PHYSICS ITHUMAY8830-1130AMDH1112
33438INTRM ELEC & MAG IITUEMAY6530-830PMWEH5403
33442INTRO STAT PHYSICSTUEMAY6100-400PMWEH7316
33446WAVE MECHANICSTHUMAY1100-400PMWEH8427
33448INTRO SOLID ST PHYSMONMAY5830-1130AMWEH6423
33454PHYSICS OF CONTINUAMONMAY5530-830PMWEH7316
33756QUANTM MECHANICS IITHUMAY8100-400PMWEH8427
33766SP TOPICS STAT MECHTHUMAY1830-1130AMWEH7316
STATISTICS
36210PRB AP STA MG SS IITUEMAY6100-400PMDH2210,DH1212,MM
36212PRB AP ST PH S&E IITHUMAY1530-830PMPH225C
36219STAT MTH DATA AN ITHUMAY8830-1130AMBH245
36226INTRO PRB & STAT IITHUMAY1100-400PMWEH7500, MM103
36326PROB & MATH STAT IITHUMAY1100-400PMPH21
36402ADV DATA ANALY IIMONMAY5830-1130AMPH125C
36410ELEM APPL PROBABLTYFRIMAY2830-1130AMWEH7500
CIT INTERDISCIPLINARY PROGRAM 
39300 ANALY SYNTH & EVALU
B MON MAY 5 530-830PM SH125, SH206
C MON MAY 5 530-830PM HH B131
BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING
42100INTR TO BIOMED ENGRTUEMAY6100-400PMWEH5427
42604BIO TRNS PHRMCKNTCSFRIMAY2830-1130AMDH1211
42624SP TPCS AIR POLLUTNTHUMAY8100400PMPH123B
42644MEDICAL DEVICESFRIMAY2100-400PMWEH5403
42680BIOINST BIOINF PROCTHUMAY8830-1130AMDH2122
42704BIO TRNS PHRMCKNTCSFRIMAY2830-1130AMDH1211
42744MEDICAL DEVICESFRIMAY2100-400PMWEH5403
ARCHITECTURE
48125STRUCTURESTHUMAY1830-1130AMMM103
48143DESIGN MANAGEMENTFRIMAY2530-830PMMM14
48145INTRO TO COMPUTINGTHUMAY8830-1130AMPH225C
48512THEORY IIFRIMAY2530-830PMCFA206
DESIGN
51300DESIGN PRINC ANALYTHUMAY1100-400PMPH125C

---------------------------------------------------

SCHEDULE
MUSIC
57109ELEMENTARY THEORYTUEMAY6100-400PMCFA160
57112MUS THEATRE TECH IITUEMAY6830-1030AMCFA160
57151HARMONY IMONMAY5100-400PMMM160
57152HARMONY IIMONMAY5830-1030AMCFA160
57153HARMONY IIITUEMAY61030-1230AMCFA160
57162EURHYTHMICS IIFRIMAY2530-830PMMM119
57164EURHYTHMICS IVTHUMAY8100-400PMMM119
57176SOLFEGE MUS THEA IITUEMAY6730-930PMMM127
57178SOLFEGE MUS THEA IVTHUMAY1830-1030AMMM127
57182SOLFEGE ITUEMAY6530-730PMMM127
57184SOLFEGE IIITHUMAY11030-1230PMMM127
57203HISTORY OF MUSIC IITHUMAY1530-830PMCFA160
57205HISTORY OF MUSIC IVFRIMAY2100-300PMCFA160
57256TONAL COUNTERPOINTFRIMAY2830-1130AMCFA160
5725820TH CENT TECHNQUESMONMAY5530-830PMCFA160
57268SECOND COMPOSITIONFRIMAY2100-400PMCFA157
57272ORCHESTRATION IIIFRIMAY2530-830PMCFA157
57333INSTRUMENT CONDUCTTHUMAY8830-1130AMACH
57334CHORAL CONDUCTINGTHUMAY1100-400PMACH
57348ELCTR & CMPT MUS IIFRIMAY2300-500PMCFA160
57375ELEMENTARY METHODSTHUMAY1830-1130AMMM119
57408FORM & ANALYSIS IITHUMAY8100-400PMHLLR
57423FRENCH DICTIONTHUMAY8830-1130AMCFA157
57460KYBD HRM SC RDG IIMONMAY51030-1130AMCFA160
57734CHORAL TECHNQUES IITHUMAY1530-830PMMM119
57752PIANO IMPROVISAT IITHUMAY8830-1130AMCFA103
57808FORM & ANALYSISTHUMAY8100-400PMHLLR
57813OPERA SURVEYTUEMAY6530-830PMCFA160
57888INSTRUMENT CONDUCTTHUMAY8830-1130AMACH
ENGLISH (Continued)
66203
66213
66315
76430
76441
76451
76710
76721
76740
76741 
76771 
76792 
76807
76821
76822
76823 
76830 
76841 
76851
DOSTOEVSKY & 20TH C MON MAY
RDG VICTORIAN CULT MON MAY
AMERICAN ROMANCE FRI MAY
SO CR SU AM POP FLM TUE MAY
SEX AND GENDER THU MAY
ROMANTIC REVOLUTION FRI MAY
18TH-C WRTRS SATIRE TUE MAY
RHETOR SOC INTERACT MON MAY
INT DISCOURSE ANALY FRI MAY
HSTRY OF CRITICISM TUE MAY
DESIGN INSTRUC MTLS THU MAY
RSCH IN RHETORIC THU MAY
MODERNISM FRI MAY
DOSTOEVSKY & 20TH C MON MAY
RDG VICTORIAN CULT MON MAY
AMERICAN ROMANCE FRI MAY
5830-1130AMBH245
5830-1130AMBH255A
2100-400PMBH255A
6100-400PMPH225C
8100-400PMBH245
2100-400PMBH226C
6530-830PMBH229B
5100-400PMPH125C
2530-830PMBH255A
6530-830PMBH255A
1830-1130AMBH255B
1100-400PMBH245
2530-830PMBH255B
5830-1130AMBH245
5830-1130AMBH255A
2100-400PMBH255A
MODERN LANGUAGE PROGRAM
H&SS INTERDISCIPLINARY PROGRAM
AGE OF MARX LIB REV 
RENAISSANCE & REFOR 
HOLOCAUST TW IN UND
MON MAY 5 530-830PM 
THU MAY 1 530-830PM 
FRI MAY 2 530-830PM
PH21
BH245
ADAMSON
INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT
82102ELEMENTARYFRENCHWEDMAY7100-400PMPH125B
82103PROGRAMMEDFRENCHWEDMAY7830-1130AMPH2082122ELEMENTARYGERMANTUEMAY6830-1130AMADAMSON82123PROGRAMMEDGERMANMONMAY5830-1130AMSH12582142ELEMENTARYSPANISHTUEMAY6830-1130AMBH131B82143PROGRAMMEDSPANISHWEDMAY7530-830PMPH2082162ELEMENTARYITALIANTUEMAY6830-1130AMPH226B82172ELEMENTARYJAPANESETHUMAY1530-830PMBH231A82202INT FRENCHCULT SOC
AWEDMAY7530-830PMBH245
BWEDMAY7530-830PMBH131A82222INT GERMANCULT SOCTUEMAY6830-1130AMADAMSON82242INT SPANISH CUL SOCWEDMAY7100-400PMPH19A82262INTERMED ITALIANTUEMAY6830-1130AMPH226B82272INTERMED JAPANESEMONMAY5100-400PMBH231A82281MSTRPC CONTIN LITTUEMAY6830-1130AMBH235A82302FRENCH CONVER COMPWEDMAY7530-830PMPH123B82322GERMAN CONVER COMPFRIMAY2100-400PMPH225B82415STUDIES FRENCH LITTHUMAY8830-1130AMBH231A.82429GERMAN LIT19TH CMONMAY5100-400PMPH226B82456ST LAT AM SPAN LITTHUMAY8100-400PMPH226C
70121FINANC ACCOUNTINGTHUMAY1530-830PMDH2210, DH2315
70160INTR GRA CMNCTNS ITHUMAY1530-830PMPH125C
70161INTR GRA CMNCTNS IITUEMAY6830-1130AMMM310
70193PRINT PROC SCIENCESMONMAY5100-400PMPH123B
70311ORGNZTN BEHAVIOR I
AMONMAY5830-1130AMPH225C
70312ORGNZTN BEHAVIOR II
ATHUMAY1830-1130AMPH19A
BTHUMAY1830-1130AMPH19C
70361FOUNDATIONS OF LAW
ATHUMAY1100-400PMPH225C
BTHUMAY1100-400PMDH1112
CTHUMAY1100-400PMADAMSON
70363LAW MDRN AMER SOC
AWEDMAY7530-830PMADAMSON
BWEDMAY7530-830PMPH225C
70371PRODUCTION I
A,DFRIMAY2530-830PMPH100
BFRIMAY2530-830PMPH125C
CFRIMAY2530-830PMPH225C
70381MARKETING I
AMONMAY5530-830PMPH125C
BMONMAY5530-830PMPH225C
70391FINANCE I
ATUEMAY6530-830PMPH225C
B,CTUEMAY6530-830PMDH2315
DTUEMAY6530-830PMSH125
70411LEADERSHIPTHUMAY8830-1130AMPH20
70422COST ACCOUNTINGMONMAY5100-400PMADAMSON
70426ADVANCED ACCOUNTINGTHUMAY8830-1130AMWEH5427
70440STRATEGIC MANAGEMNTTHUMAY1530-830PMSH125
70451MGMNT INFORMATN SYSTUEMAY6100-400PMPH125C
70520PUBLICITY PUB RELTHUMAY8100-400PMMM310
HISTORY
79100 HOW HISTORIANS THNK
79102 SHAPING WSTRN CIV 
79104 INTRO TO WORLD HIST 
79120 DEV OF AMER SOCIETY 
79206 CHINESE CULT & SOC 
79208 HST S AFR HOUSE DIV 
79221 HSTRY AMER URB LIFE 
79223 MDRN LATIN AMERICA 
79228 RELIG SOC HST CHRIS 
79233 MKNG OF MDRN FAMILY 
79301 DATA MGT APPL HSTRY 
79321 WOMEN IN AMER HSTRY 
79324 BLACK EXP REC PRES 
79344 HSTRY MDRN WARFARE 
79354 VIETNAM AM LOST WAR 
79362 WAR REV.EUR 20TH-C 
79366 EUROP CULT LIFESTYL 
79371 SOV UN SINCE STALIN 
79389 CITIES & TECHNOLOGY 
79440 SEM URBAN AFFAIRS 
79442 SEM PUB AFF SOC PRO
MONMAY5100-400PMBH131A
MONMAY5100-400PMPH126C
MONMAY5100-400PMPH125B
THUMAY1100-400PMDH2210,PH100
MONMAY5100-400PMDH2210,PH100
THUMAY8100-400PMPH225C
FRIMAY2100-400PMBH235B
TUEMAY6100-400PMPH21
WEDMAY7100-400PMBH231B
MONMAY5830-1130AMBH229B
TUEMAY6530-830PMBH254A
THUMAY1830-1130AMBH254A
MONMAY5100-400PMBH255A
TUEMAY6830-1130AMBH254A
FRIMAY2830-1130AMPH125C
MONMAY5100-400PMPH225C
WEDMAY7530-830PMBH254A
FRIMAY2530-830PMBH231A
THUMAY1530-830PMBH231B
WEDMAY7530-830PMPH100
FRIMAY2530-830PMBH235A
FRIMAY2830-1130AMBH255A
PHILOSOPHY
80100 PHILOS MTH & MORALS
ECONOMICS
73100PRINC OF ECONOMICS
A-FFRIMAY2830-1130AMPH100
G-MFRIMAY2830-1130AMDH2210,
73222PHILOSOPHY OF ECONMONMAY5100-400PMPH20
73250INTERMED MICROECON 
AFRIMAY2100-400PMPH225C
B,EFRIMAY2100-400PMMM103
CFRIMAY2100-400PMSH125
DFRIMAY2100-400PMDH1212
73300INTERMED MACRECON 
ATHUMAY8100-400PMPH125C
BTHUMAY8100-400PMADAMSON
CTHUMAY8100-400PMPH20
73340LABOR ECONOMICSFRIMAY210-400PMPH125C
73354LAW AND ECONOMICSMONMAY5530-830PMBH245
73360ECONOMETRICSFRIMAY2830-1130AMMM103
73476AMER ECONOMIC HSTRYWEDMAY7830-1130AMPH126A
80212 LOGIC & COMPUT II 
80222 PHILOSOPHY OF ECON 
80260 AESTHETICS 
80265 PHILOS OF RELIGION 
80272 METAPHYSICS 
80280 INTRO TO LING ANALY 
80891 POSTSTRUCTURALISM
88101 SOCIAL INFLUENCE
WED MAY 
WED MAY 
TUE MAY 
MON MAY 
FRI MAY 
TUE MAY 
FRI MAY 
FRI MAY 
MON MAY
SOCIAL SCIENCES
7530-830PMPH125C
7530-830PMPH126C
6530-830PMDH2200
5100-400PMPH20
2100-400PMPH100
6830-1130AMPH125C
2100-400PMBH131B
2830-1130AMPH126C
5100-400PMPH126A
ENGLISH
88221
88223
88281
88301
88312
88323
88325
88362
88422
88701
85100
85112
85211
POLICY ANALYSIS II 
DEC AN DEC SUP SYST 
SOCIAL SCI THEOR II 
PSYCH INCOH DEC MKG 
POLITICAL PSYCH 
LEGISLATIVE PROCESS 
CNST CH MD DEM THEO 
CTIES & TECHNOLOGY 
ISS FOR NTL SEC POL 
PSYCH INCOH DEC MKG
COG PROC THEO PRAC 
LISP
COGNTV PSYCHOLOGY
76102 READING TO WRITE
D
76230 BBLCL MYTH BKGR LIT 
76240 DSC PRAC LNG ST SGN
76244 SHAKESPEARE
76245 SHAKESPEARE
76310 SO CR SU AM POP FLM 
76321 SEX AND GENDER
76341 18TH-C WRTRS SATIRE
76342 ROMANTIC REVOLUTION 
76371 RHETOR SOC INTERACT 
76407 HSTRY OF CRITICISM 
76421 DESIGN INSTRUC MTLS 
76423 MODERNISM
FRIMAY2830-1130AMPH126B85221
FRIMAY2100-400PMBH24585251
MONMAY5530-830PMADAMSON85261
THUMAY8830-1130AMADAMSON85281
THUMAY8830-1130AMHH B13185310
TUEMAY6100-400PMPH225C85320
THUMAY8100-400PMBH24585340
TUEMAY6530-830PMBH229B85412
FRIMAY2100-400PMBH226C85712
MONMAY5100-400PMPH125C
TUEMAY6530-830PMBH255A
THUMAY1830-1130AMBH255B
FRIMAY2530-830PMBH255B99200
PRINC CHILD DVLPMNT 
PERSONALITY 
ABNORMAL PSYCHOLOGY 
INTRO CLINICAL PSY 
RSCH MTHDS COG PSY 
RSCH MTHD CHILD DEV 
RSCH MTHDS SOC PSY 
THINKING 
THINKING
MONMAY5830-1130AMDH2210, 
HH B103,
THUMAY1100-400PMBH231B
MONMAY5830-1130AMMM103
FRIMAY2830-1130AMPH223D
TUEMAY6530-830PMPH223D
THUMAY8100-400PMBH231B
THUMAY1530-830PMADAMSON
FRIMAY2530-830PMDH2122
WEDMAY7530-830PMPH100
TUEMAY6830-1130AMBH235B
TUEMAY6530-830PMPH223D
PSYCHOLOGY
WEDMAY7830-1130AMDH2315
MONMAY5530-830PMPH19C
WEDMAY7830-1130AMWEH7500
WEDMAY7330-1130AMPH125C
MONMAY5830-1130AMADAMSON
TUEMAY6830-1130AMPH225C
WEDMAY7830-1130AMPH225C
THUMAY8830-1130AMBH340A
MONMAY5100-400PMBH336B
FRIMAY2830-1130AMBH340A
THUMAY1530-830PMBH340A
TUEMAY6830-1130AMBH336B
TUEMAY6830-1130AMBH336B
DH1212
UNIVERSITY CORE CURRICULUM

---------------------------------------------------

Page 32The TartanFebruary 18, 1986
Double visitors score. . .
Natators do complete turnaround; swim past W&J
By STEW LEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter
The Swimming Tartans got back on track last 
week defeating Washington and Jefferson
70-35 in Men's Swimming and 74-35 in 
Women's Swimming. A complete turnaround 
from Grove City was how Coach Donna 
Moroskv described the meet.
The men jumped to a quick lead taking top 
slots in four of the first five events to lead 35-8. 
Winners were the 400 medley relay team of 
Doug Biesecker, Doug Lindblad, Hal Levine, 
and Chris Leech; Rob Summers in the mile 
freestyle with a time of 18:31.35 seconds; Steve 
Francis in the 200 freestyle, and Mike Fit
zgerald in the 200 individual medley.
John Carroll made up some ground, taking 
advantage of the men's lack of divers. However, 
outside of that, it was all Tartans, taking five 
of the final six swimming events.
Greg Schooley started CMU with a victory in 
the 200 freestyle. He was followed by Dan Ur
ban in the 200 backstroke, Fitzgerald in the 
500 freestyle, Lindblad in the 200 breaststroke, 
and the 400 freestyle relay team of Levine, 
Summers, Fitzgerald, and Whitney Foster.
The women also had an easy time taking the 
first nine events of the meet to build a comman
ding 56-20 lead. The victors included the 400 
medley relay team of Suzie Keyy, Carol Pampino, Nancy Ott, and Amy Stempel.
Patty Illig took the mile freestyle, lapping two 
W&J swimmers in the process; Stempel won the 
200 freestyle; Pampino was victorious in the 
200 individual medley; Carol Fruend bested all 
divers.
Other winners were Francesca Crannel in the 
100 freestyle with a personal best of 58.36 
seconds; Kelly in the 100 backstroke; Jill 
Werner in the 100 breaststroke; and the 400 
freestyle relay team of Keyy, Illig, Freund, and 
Crannell.
This was the final home meet of the season 
as well as the final meet of the PAC season. The 
Tartans honored their three departing seniors 
Chris Leech. Dan Urban, and Patty Illig, each 
of whom won at least one event that day.
Carnegie Mellon finds itself now at 8-1 with 
only last weeks match-up against Slippery Rock 
between the squad and the PAC Championships
at John Carroll.
"The women are weak in numbers, but strong
in performance and ability. Weve beaten all 
the women in the Conference except John Car
roll. The only thing stopping us is numbers, our 
ability is much better than any other team.
For the men, Grove City is the team to beat. 
Well lose points in the diving, they could take 
up to 60 points in that alone. Weve got a good 
shot at second, but on any given day...
Defeating Washington and Jefferson, Last Wednesday, were the swim teams. The mens 400 medley team copped first palce honors. The natators will travel to Silippery Rock this Wednesday.
The Great Pirate Ticket Sale
Meet Pirate Representatives
Make your own 
The New Bucs: We Play Hardball poster and win FREE tickets.
Today
in
Skibo
YDur favorite 
Wendys, Arbys,
Kentucky Fried Chicken, etc delivered to your dorm.
CallUKCLfcc
5:00 p.m. to Midnite. 7 Days a Week. 
Dorms/ Fraternities/Sororities Only
BxAAuhrJAu uAr)unS ,un)rbup Nibm
PIZZA PIZZA PIZZA PIZZA
810 IVY STREET
682-3333rnrr _ .. Mon.-Sat. 5 PM-1 AMFREE Delivery Sunday 12 pm-12 am
We sell pizza by the slice
<NN
<NN
SPECIAL: Order $1000 or 
more and get a coupon for 
FREE $3 Cheese Pizza.
LARGE $
PIZZA
iter of Coke 
With Purchase 
Of Large Pizza
NM
>

>FREE 2
NM
>

---------------------------------------------------

February 18, 1986The TartanPage 33
intramural Report. . .
ATO Wolf pack attacks competition; leads Majors hoops
B> JILL DORSON Floor hockey contests began this past week Pinochle Each team must provide a certi
Tartan Sports Editor in the Maiors Division. Of th^ o-amoc nlmm/J f nmmiccmnpr* Vinno rfrw sirwitActc
By JILL DORSON
Tartan Sports Editor
Taking a commanding lead in the A Divi
sion of the Majors basketball League, the ATO 
Wolfpack went 1-1 on the week to up their 
record to 6-1. Both Beta-A and the Skywalkers 
share the second place honors. On the flip side, 
the Pretty Boys lead the pack at 5-2, followed 
closely by the City Kids and Pika-A.
Four divisions of the Intermediate League 
boast leaders with 3-0 records. The Alabama 
Slammers, Kappa Sigma-B, and the Yanks lead 
the A, B, and C sections, respectively, 
while Buster Highmen and the Math Grads top 
all competition on the E side. At 2-0, the 
Crabs hold the red ribbon in the A Division, 
and the UDS Lakers fell just short of first in the 
"B Division.
Betas Wooglin Five tallied the most wins of 
the week, as they lead the D Division, with 
the Sudsuckers and the Touring Machine nip
ping closely at their heels.
Finally, DU-A and Kappa Sigma-A share the 
wreath for the F section.
The History Grads topped the Georgetown 
section of the Minors, leading far and away, at 
6-0. KDR is also undefeated, with a 3-0 slate. 
Leading the Pitt Division, the Chiefs boast a 4-0 
record, followed by Pika-C; and the Gumbies 
and Clyde Street, are at a tie for third.
DTD and TDP share the blue ribbon in the 
Maryland Division while DU-B tops all competitiors in the Syracuse section.
At 2-0, the Mech E. Grads and Pilam take 
the honors in the Duke and Carolina sections, 
respectively.
Only three games have been played in the 
Womens section, leaving Kappa Krush, Steel 
Zeplin, and Margarets Maniacs at 1-1.
PREGNANT?
And you didn t mean to be?
For a tree pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 741-3491.
SPRINGBREAK
Help us sponsor your 
Ft. Lauderdale, Daytona 
or Key West trip and 
you go for free!
Floor hockey contests began this past week 
in the Majors Division. Of the games played, 
the Central Red Army and DU-A dropped their 
respective rivals. Competition in the Minors 
Division hasnt begun yet.
In the finals of the Darts competition, PilamA defeated Theta Xi-B in the Championship 
round. Pilam-B, Pilam-C, Pilam-D, and Carol 
Apartments all made it to the playoffs, as well.
SPORTS IN SEASON Bowling
Commissioner: Vince Carozza687-8940 
Please pay all fees to Strand Lanes. Basketball
Commissioners: Majors: Russ Longx4639 
Intermediates: Dom 
Colangelo687-6339 
Minors: Pat Careyx4778 
Womens: Dee Nvzio4408Handball
Commissioner: E.J. Birdyx2214 
Schedules are out and may be picked up in IM 
office.
Pinochle
Commissioner: Vince Carozza687-8940 
Schedules are out and may be picked up in IM 
office.Backgammon
Commissioner: Tod Bross682-5134 
Schedules are out and may be picked up in IM 
office.Wrestling
Commissioner: Joe Kiefler687-6964 
ALL SESSIONS WILL BE HELD IN THISTLE 
HALL!! Matches will be held Saturday, March 
1, at 9:00 a.m., in Thistle Hall. Practice ses
sions will be held M-W-F: 3:30-5:00, M-W: 
7:00-8:00, and Saturday 10:00 a.m.-11:30 
a.m.Floor Hockey
Commissioners: Majors: Rob
Schlackman683-3739 
Minors: Paul 
Pecora681-0251 Water Basketball
Commissioner: OPEN (anyone interested, 
please contact the IM office).
Each team must provide a certified lifeguart 
for contestsSPORTS COMING UP Table Tennis
Commissioner: OPEN (anyone interested, 
please contact the IM office).
Final entry date: February 20 Call Pool
Commissioner: OPEN (anyone interested, 
please contact the IM office).
Final entry date: February 20 Co-Rec Badminton
Commissioner: OPEN (anyone interested 
please contact the IM office).
Final entry date: February 20 Foul Shooting
Commissioner: OPEN (anyone interested 
please contact the IM office).
Thursday, March 6, the Intramural depart 
ment will be holding an awards night in the gym 
Awards for first semester competitions will b< 
given. The next meeting of the IM board wil 
be held February 20, at 12:30 p.m. in the IV 
office.
LUVjc^
(800) 542-8003 TOI L KRtK
1 Gyn Check-Ups
Abortion Services
Free Pregnancy Tests
Confidential 
Counseling
m w at. -pwnrttw hl 
___(III) Ki-UWQ__
WEBSTER HALL
Webster Hall Apartments 
Finest High Rise In 
Oakland's Cultural Center 
EFF. 1-2 BR
Your suite includes -Heat, A/C, fully 
equipped kitchens,w/w carpeting, 
spacious closets
Cable TV available 
Off stTeet covered parking available 
Limo & bus at door 
Resident storage space 
Furnished units available 
Weekdays ____ Weekends95 621-4132 124

---------------------------------------------------

Page 34The TartanFebruary 18, 1986
Despite loss9 pucksters look for playoff position
By PERRY PIERCE
Tartan Staffwriter
The Ice Tartans split in the week's action, 
beating IUP 3-0, and dropping a tough desision to the Golden Knights of Gannon 3-2.
Carnegie Mellon, coming off a bad week los
ing twice to Bowling Green, was ready to bouce 
back, as the Tartans came up with a big con
ference win in the Western Pennsylvania 
Hockey Association. The pucksters now have 
a 9-4 record in the conference, and hold a 
strong third place behind Duquense, and the 
University of Pittsburgh. The Tartans will take 
on these conference powerhouses in the near 
future, as the season winds down to a precious 
few games. Carnegie Mellon is a shoe-in for the 
playoffs, though, as the top four teams make 
it to post season play.
The Tartans lost a very tough game to Gan
non College despite playing their best game of 
the year. The Tartans had support from Rob 
Katz, scoring on a breakaway in the second 
period. For Katz, that was his third goal in two 
games, and his eleventh on the year. The other 
Tartan red light was on a shorthanded goal
scored by sophomore Greg Timmons on a pass 
from Mark Licata to knot the game at two a 
piece at the end of the second period. Carnegie 
Mellons power play units had their best game 
of the year, keeping the puck in the Gannon 
zone for the full two minutes. But the game was 
decided in the third period, as Gannon scored 
on a questionable play, where the net became 
unanchored. Tartan goaltender Ron Bonnasso 
was quite disturbed by the call of the referees, 
but the goal stood, and was the difference in 
the game.
Carnegie Mellon and IUP were quite evenly  
matched, as the Tartans tried unsuccessfully to 
outskate a surpising IUP defense. IUP always 
plays us tough, said Tartan wing Tommy 
Hughes, explaining that the game was not to be 
taken too lightly. The IUP defense played very 
well, but let the Tartans get a lot of shots on 
net, as Carnegie Mellon outshot IUP by a 35-21 
count.
The first period went by fast, as the teams 
played very evenly for the first six minutes of 
the game. At the 7 minute mark, just after IUP 
wasted off a power play opportunity for the Tar
tans, Rob Katz took a pass from Don Heyse 
from behind the net and shot it by IUP goalie 
Frank Cone. Katz explained Donny [Heyse] 
got it [the puck] behind the net from Bobby 
[Koch] and fed me out in front. I took a shot 
from about ten feet and got the puck between 
his legs." With that goal, Carnegie Mellon was 
able to keep control of the puck for the re
mainder of the period and hold their 1-0 lead.
Tartan goaltender Ron Bonnasso had another 
good game in goal for the Tartans, and was able 
to get the shutout. Bonnasso had a slightly pull
ed groin muscle in the games against Bowling 
Green, and felt very good for this week. I came 
very ready to play, explained Bonnasso. The 
Tartans were able to give Bonnasso a lot of pro
tection, as the defense played one of their best 
games of the year. The defense played a great 
game, commented Tartan coach Dr. John 
Polomsky. Coach Polomsky also commented on 
the play of his fourth and fifth lines, saying that 
they helped keep our first, second, and third 
lines very fresh. We need that kind of help later 
on in the season with the big games coming up.
I hope to work them in as a bigger part of our 
game very soon.
The teams skated fairly evenly in the second 
period, as Carnegie Mellon was able to control 
the puck for the greater part of the period. In 
the third period, Carnegie Mellon was finally 
able to capitalize on the power play, as at the 
7:45 mark of the period, scoring sensation Greg 
Timmons took a backhand shot that beat IUP 
goalie Cone to give the Tartans a 2-0 lead. Tim
mons got help from Ken Smith and Rob Katz 
on the play, as they set Timmons out front only 
a few feet from the net. Play continued to be 
quite clean, as the teams played a game of 
skating, not hitting. But with only one minute 
left in the game, Rob Katz tallied his tenth red 
light of the year on a breakaway lead pass from 
Don Heyse to give the Tartans an insurmoun
table 3-0 lead. Katz explained that IUP had 
good covering up front[of the net] all game. 
Carnegie Mellon also was successful in pulling 
out the IUP defensemen a lot, as Tartan 
defenders in front the of the IUP net constant
ly caused IUP to break their intended defen
sive scheme.
Round trip. Any where we go.
This Spring Break, if you and your friends are thinking about heading to the slopes, the beach or just home for a visit, Greyhound can take you there. For only $99 or less, round trip. From February 15 through April 27, all you do is show us your college student I.D. card when you purchase your ticket. Your ticket will
then be good for travel for 15 days from the date 
of purchase. So this Spring Break, get a real break. Go anywhere Greyhound goes for $99 or less. For more information, call Greyhound.
Mun pramt  vakd codeae student I D. card upon purchase No her dacounts apply Tickets,mt' td good far travel on Greyhound Lane*, Inc., and her participating amen CeramOner effective 2/15/86 Oftr limited N vtbd in Canada.restrictions apply
 1986 Greyhound Lines, Inc
_ r GREYHOUNDAnd leaveihedriving tous'
11th St. & Liberty Ave., 391-2300

---------------------------------------------------

February 18, 1986The TartanPage 35
Hoopsters clobbered by John Carroll; drop to ,500
Marietta for their non-Conference game, and 
played a contest very similar to their loss against 
John Carroll.
The match started out close with neither team 
able to get a sizeable lead early on. However, 
with 10 minutes left in the stanza the Tartans 
go cold allowing the hosts to build a 32-19 
lead with just under six minutes remaining. 
CMU was able to close the gap to 40-30 bv the 
half.
As the second half started, the two teams trad
ed baskets for the first few minutes. The 
Tartans fell into the trap they fell into against 
Grove City and John Carroll: poor shooting.
Mariettas lead hit 23 at 10:08 and the home 
squad never looked back. The Tartans shot only 
36.5% from the floor in the second half, and 
38.3% for the whole game, as well as 47.2% 
from the foul line.
Two Tartans had good efforts against Mariet
ta. Coleman led CMU with 15 points and 12 
rebounds. Freshman forward Daren Moffatt, in 
a rare starting appearance, added 11 points and 
9 rebounds.
Carnegie Mellon heads into its final week of 
the season with games Tuesday night at home 
against co-Conference leader Thiel and Friday 
on the road against last-place Bethany.
by STEW LEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter
The season for the Tartans ended at John Car
roll Wednesday when Carnegie Mellon got clob
bered 94-62 dropping them to 9-9 and 5-5 in 
the PAC, three games behind John Carroll and 
Thiel, with only two games remaining in the 
season. Earlier in the week the Tartans also 
dropped a non-Conference matchup 91-66 to 
Marietta.
John Carroll opened the game with a Craig 
Huffman bucket to take a lead that Carnegie 
Mellon would only be able to tie once in the 
entire game.
From the start, the Blue Streaks outplayed the 
Tartans, rising to a 17-8 lead with 13:08 re
maining when Head Coach Larry Anderson 
called time out. The rest seemed to get CMU 
back on track, when the Tartans led by Richard 
Neff and Hart Coleman, tied the game at 22-22 
with 7:40 left in the first half.
The game remained close as the two squads 
traded buckets until the final three minutes 
w hen John Carroll pulled ahead with a 12 point 
run to take a 41-28 lead at the buzzer.
In the second half the Blue Streaks pulled 
ahead combining good shooting, solid reboun
ding, and a tenacious defense that provided 14
steals.
John Carroll extended its lead to 29 with 
10:05 and would only see that lead drop below 
29 for 23 seconds the rest of the way.
The Tartans were led by another solid per
formance by sophomore center Hart Coleman 
who was seven of nine from the floor with 18 
points and 11 rebounds. Richard Neff hit seven 
of 10 to add 14, and Dave Bart contributed 10.
Earlier in the week, the Tartans traveled to
nichard Neff awaits the board.
?h a D6fS
Hair desj9n ^ difler^ce
 COUPON mmmmm
$4.00 OFF HAIRCUT 
EXPIRES 2-28-86 Regular $14-16
Lewis'
Mon Fri 9 to 9 Sat 9 to 6 Sun. 12 to 6813 S. Aiken Avenue  Shadyside 
682-4063
"WHAT IF.
you joined Northrop DSD! Youd find the freedom 
to interact with the industrys brightest minds. 
Youd meet the industrys toughest challenges. 
And youd have an opportunity to explore your 
own limits. As a professional. As a person.
We have career opportunities available for 
MBAs, Bachelors and Masters graduates in:
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, COMPUTER 
ENGINEERING, COMPUTER SCIENCE, 
PHYSICS, MATHEMATICS.
Our representatives will be on campus 
March 3, 1986.
Schedule an interview appointment through your 
College Placement Office, or send your resume to. 
College Relations Organization, Northrop 
Corporation, Defense Systems Division, 600 
Hicks Road, Rolling Meadows, IL 60008.
We are an equal opportunity employer M/F/V/H. 
U.S. C ? zenship Required.
NORTHROP
Defense Systems Division
Electronics Systems Group
Northrop DSD: Where the individual thrives... on opportunity.
Tele-Tuxis a recorded tax information telephone system to answer your tax questions. The local number to call and a list of tax topics is in tax
MAC UPGRADES
S12K to 1MB kit $249.00 
128K to S12K installed $225.00 
Free pick-up and free S12K loaner 
2 Meg with fast CPU CALL 
Hyper Drive Compatible CALL 
1-year Warrantee and Software with all.
MICRO CONSULTANTS 
443-3376.

---------------------------------------------------

Chuck Klausing turns the reigns over to Rich Lackner.
mniness for him anrl snrrnw fnr nc He also had
Tartan Sports
Compiles 77-15-2 record in 10 rears
Klausing named assistanthead coach at Pitt
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
Chuck Klausing, Carnegie Mellon's head foot
ball coach for the past ten years, this week ac
cepted a position as assistant head coach at Pitt 
under new head coach Mike Gottfried.
He will be replaced by Rich Lackner, who 
has served as an assistant under Klausing since 
his graduation from Carnegie Mellon in 1978. 
Lackner will be the 18th head coach in 
CMU/Carnegie Tech history.
Klausing compiled an impressive 77-15-2 
record during his tenure as CMU head coach, 
a winning percentage of .830, the best in Tar
tan history. He guided the Tartans to six PAC 
championships and four NCAA playoff berths. 
He received national recognition for his work 
at CMU, being voted Small College Coach-ofthe-Year in both 1979 and 1983. During his 
38 year coaching career, Klausing has never 
had a single losing season.
Athletic Director Jim Banner had nothing but 
praise for Klausing's work at CMU. Hes done 
a tremendous job for us over the last ten years, 
as his record states...We wish him well in his 
new endeavors.
The players seemed disappointed to lose 
Klausing, but wished him well. Defensive back 
Dave Elias said it was Unfortunate that we 
have to lose two outstanding coaches [Klausing 
and Poluzek], but Im happy that they are go
ing to places where football is treated with some 
respect."* Co-Captain and quarterback Mike 
Hensel commented I respect the outstanding 
job he did considering the dismal facilities they 
had to work with.
Ron Orie, a senior and also a co-captain, call
ed Coach Klausings departure one of both
ly things will work out for him at Pitt, the same 
way things will work out at CMU under Coach 
Lackner.
Other team members were also optimistic 
about Lackners leadership. Hensel is confi
dent the team will do well under the cir
cumstances, losing the head coach and the 
defensive coordinator of six years. Lackner has 
the drive and determination to succeed. He was 
a learned understudy under a great mentor.
Klausing seemed upbeat about his new posi
tion. I m happy to come to the University of 
Pittsburgh to help Mike Gottfried produce a win
ner...! welcome challenges.
leaving the team in good hands. He [Lackner] 
has proven...hes a person that deserves this op
portunity. Im happy for the players. 
Lackner in turn lauded Klausing. I feel like 
I"m following a legend. Coach Klausing is the 
Bear Bryant of Division III football.
Lackner was the obvious choice to succeed 
Klausing. Athletic Director Banner indicated 
that he wanted to promote someone already 
associated with the CMU program, and that
Lackner was the first person he had approach
ed with the position.
New head coach Rich Lackner has been 
associated with Carnegie Mellon football for the
past 11 seasons, all but the first under Chuck 
Klausing. He was a four year letterman for the 
Tartans, a three time All-PAC linebacker, and 
a co-captain of 1978 CMU playoff team. 
Lackner was also twice selected as an Academic 
All-American, and the Post Gazette presented 
him with a Dapper Dan award following his 
senior year.After earning his Bachelors degree in 1978. 
Lackner serv ed as a Tartan assistant linebacker 
coach until 1982, when he took over the offen
sive line. In 1984. Lackner was promoted to 
offensive coordinator, and was shifted to defen
sive coordinator last month when Don Poluzek
left to take an assistants job at Marshall University.
Lackner did not foresee many immediate^ 
changes in the football program. He indicated 
that there would not be a shake-up of the 
coaching staff, although he is looking for for 
another full time assistant coach and one or 
two part-time assistants.
Lackner did note that his field strategies 
would not be a carbon copy of Klausings. I 
have observed his tactics over the years, but 
I can't say Im the same person as Coach Klaus
ing.
One of the factors that made Klausing so suc
cessful at CMU is his recruiting ability, a factor* 
that may have played a part in Gottfrieds selec
tion. Klausing did nothing to dispel that notion, 
noting that Ive recruited the WPIAL for 38 
years and I have made many good friends. He 
expressed confidence in CMUs future 
recruiting prospects, despite his departure and 
the loss of Don Poluzek, who had also been ac
tive in the recruiting process. Lackner has 
worked with me in recruiting...[CMU] wont 
miss a step.
Womens hoop squad clinches 71-70 thriller over Carlow
By JILL DORSON
Tartan Sports Editor
It was nothing short of a thriller, last Satur
day, in the Skibo Gym, as the Womens Varsi
ty Hoop Squad clinched a 71-70 victory over 
Carlow College in the last seconds of play. Each 
team played spectacular ball, with the coaches 
putting the right players in the places. Both fans 
and players agreed, however, that the officiating 
was far from impressive.
The contest opened up with Carlow taking a 
quick 7-4 lead in the first two minutes. The 
visitors' margin would set the tempo for the re
mainder of the half, as Carnegie Mellon 
repeatedly found itself playing catch-up.
Possession bounced back and forth, as the 
teams tallied alternately, with Carlow keeping 
that three-point edge, until the 13:40 mark. The 
hosts seemed to fall apart briefly, as Carlow 
went on a scoring binge, dropping in four 
unanswered buckets, upping the score to 22-11.
The Tartans called a time-out to regroup and 
came up with two on the in-bounds play. Senior 
co-captain Nancy Dilulio initiated the play, but 
was fouled. Again, she brought the sphere down 
with the help of freshman Roseanna Neupauer. 
Neupauer eventually shot from outside, giving 
shantout Beth Virgin the offensive board. Virgin 
was fouled and proceeded to sink two perfect 
shots from the line.
Carlow answered right back with two, but star 
Lisa Lightner wasnt willing to give in. On the 
rebound, Lightner dribbled around-the-back 
and down the court to let loose for a 27-footer 
that swished ' in.
The Tartans scored again seconds later, as 
freshman Allison Guy came off the bench to tear 
down a rebound leaving Neupauer and Lightner 
to the offense. Lightner drove through the crowd 
beneath the basket for yet another score.At 9:09, Neupauer kept her teams 100 percent ioul shot record alive, as she neatly netted
both her attempts.
Junior guard Valerie Sooky followed the tally
ing trend, upping the score to 22-21, putting 
the hosts within one.
Carlow finally got a shot off, but the Tartans 
kept the visitors in check in the form of a hot 
Allison Guy.
Foul shots from Neupauer eventually put the 
hosts ahead, but the lead was won and lost 
several times before the stanza ended.
Down by one, 28-27, Lightner tapped off a 
jump ball to Virgin, who threw a bullet downcourt to a waiting Sooky for a picture-perfect 
lay-up. As the squads exchanged tallies, sud
denly the score was tied at 31 apiece.
Mellon basket of the half, closing out the stan
za at 39-33, Carlow.
Neupauer, Lightner, and Reber tallied a com
bined total of 21 of their squads first half 
points, while Allison guy dominated the 
boareds, garnering eight caroms.
Play throughout the second half looked much 
like that of the first: the squads exchanged 
buckets, while Carlow kept a small edge.
Scoring came from around the court and 
across the team, as Lightner, Guy, Neupauer, 
Sparrow and Sooky all tried to keep Carnegie 
Mellon in the game.
With only 2:04 left to play, and Carlow still 
up by two, the contest broke wide open. Going
the same play, the Carlow coach was served a 
technical foul by the referees.
Virgin stood alone at the line to sink four con
secutive foul shots. Only three of these shots 
were counted, however, as the ref somehow 
miscounted.
At this point, Lightner was 11-for-11 at the 
line, and upped her teams score to 69-one 
point ahead of Carlow.
Try as they might, the visitors just couldnt 
get a shot off, but then again, neither could the 
Tartans; the tension was mounting as the home 
squad called a time-out.
Returning to the Court, Carlow took im
mediate possession and ultimately tallied, put
ting them ahead, 70-69, with only 15 seconds 
to play.
Carlow made the gravest error possible in this 
situation, as Neupauer, who had been hitting 
consistently from the line, was fouled. The 
freshman standout hit both her shots cleanly, 
giving her teammates a one-point edge.
At the nine second mark, Coach Gerri Seild 
called a Carnegie Mellon time-out. Whatever 
she said, worked-at the buzzer, Carlow still 
hadn't hit, and the Tartans were victorious,
71-70.
The hoopsters will host Conference rival Thiel 
College, Tuesday in a 6:00 p.m. tip-off. Over 
the weekend, the squad will travel to Bethan) 
for their final confrontation of the 1985- 
season.
it was a hot day for the Tartans, as four 
hoopsters broke into the double figuresLightner led the pack with 18 tallies, while 
classmate Virgin dropped in 17. Aimee Reber 
and Neupauer had five baskets apiece.
Defensively, standout Guy tore down an DT1 
pressive 13 caroms, while Virgin had 1^ 
Lightner showed her true colors with ninf 
boards.
