The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 81, Number 15, February 3, 1981.
Senate removes grad. seats,
SUPA & GSL4 remain intact
by Richard Gorelick
At last Tuesdays meeting, Student Senate 
repealed an amendment that created special 
graduate seats within each college. This 
amendment, passed only last year, created 
graduate senate seats in CIT (3), MCS (1), 
CFA (1) and H&SS (1); the existing graduate 
seats in SUPA and GSIA remained intact. 
The amendment provided that, in future 
elections, undergraduate students would 
vote for candidates of undergraduate seats 
and graduate students would elect represen
tatives to graduate positions.
When Student Senate created these seats, 
several objectives were accomplished. The 
creation of the Graduate Student Organiza
tion (GSO) alarmed Senate that graduate 
students might begin to initiate proceedings 
for a complete split with undergraduate 
organizations. The creation of graduate 
seats, therefore, helped to prevent a split. .
Graduate students welcomed the creation 
of these seats as a guarantee that they would 
be represented on Student Senate. Although 
they had never been prevent! from cam
paigning for senate seats, graduate students 
still complained that their situation 
amounted to a case of taxation without 
representation. Graduates were paying for 
senate sponsored functions through their 
activities fee, but had no voice in senate 
proceedings. Graduate students were then 
assured of seats that they were always 
entitled to but were wary' of running for 
because of their minority status at CarnegieMellon.
The first election under the new voting 
procedures was in November, 1980. The 
Student Senate was surprised to discover 
that graduate students, with the exception of 
students of SUPA and GSIA, virtually 
ignored the -election. There were no votes 
cast by graduate students at all in CFA or 
H&SS. Only five votes were cast in MCS, 
electing Satish Gupta to one seat. Out of 329 
graduate students in CIT, only five students 
voted, creating a four-way tie for three posi
tions. Of these four electees, three declined 
their nominations and the other accepted 
his senate seat only to subsequently resign.
The tum-out for SUPA and GSIA ranged 
between 11 and 14%, only slightly below the 
overall low turnout for the November 
election.
At the Senate meeting on January 27,
1981, a heated debate ensued between gradu
ate and undergraduate representatives. The 
graduates insisted that they would have little 
chance of gaining a seat in an election with 
both graduate and undergraduate students 
because of their minority position.
Bob Holste, presenting the undergradu
ate view, stated that graduate students 
would simply have to get off their duffs and 
campaign with everyone else. The under
graduates felt that the low voter turnout of 
graduate students, resulted in an overrepres
entation of graduate students on Senate.
The bill, which required a two-thirds 
majority to pass, received 11 votes for the 
repeal of the amendment, 4 votes against 
and 2 absentions. There was a small con
troversy as to whether abstentions counted 
towards the total vote, in which case the bill 
would have failed. However, when this con
troversy was cleared up (abstentions do not 
count), the bill was officially repealed.
This most recent occurence was the latest 
conunued on page 18
. . photo by Robcii ZusinunDr. Francis Bomba, Radiation Safety Officer, measures the radiation emitted by a TOPS-D terminal.
Are CRT terminals hazardous to our health?
by Reed Vickerman
The possible health hazards of video dis
play terminals are being explored as a result 
of a barrage of union disputes and worker 
complaints.
Among the conflicting accusation about 
the effects of these recent additions to the 
American school and work place, are claims 
of radiation, musculoskeletal pain, stress,
anxiety and even cataracts.
Video display terminals (VDTs), more 
commonly known at CMU as CRTs 
(Cathode ray tubes), are used by nearly seven 
million Americans each day. These compu
ter screens now permeate banks, newspappers, and universities, along with thousands 
of ordinary offices. The popularity of dis
play tenninals has grown from one million
$950,000 grant from Sunoco
Chem E gets catalysis lab
by Alice Alfonsi
The Chemical Engineering Department 
will be establishing a catalysis laboratory as 
the result of a grant from the Sun Oil com
pany of Radnor, PA  the parent company 
of Sun Oil (Sunoco). $500,000 of the 
$950,000 grant will be used for the catalysis 
lab, $250,000 will be used for the general 
support of the engineering department, and 
$200,000 will be used towards continuing 
support for the universitys interdisciplinary 
Design Research Center. Monetary installments will be made over a period of five 
years. The Gulf Oil and the Air Products 
and Chemicals Corporations have also sub
mitted proposals to support the lab.
. Establishing the catalysis lab will inv olve 
purchasing expensive equipment for the 
already existing lab on the second floor of 
Dohery Hali.
Researchers in the catalysis lab will be 
studying the reactions of gas molecules on 
solid surfaces and experimenting with catacontinued on page 5
CRTs on line in 1975, to an estimated 10 
million by 1985.
This proliferation of computers, and their 
accompanying input/output devices, is per
haps no where more obvious tlian here at 
CMU. A recent plan, unvailed by Provost 
Van Horn, hopes to provide, by 1985, per
sonal computers for every 4-8 students while 
aiming for an eventual one-to-one ratio of 
personal computers to students.
Video display terminals, much like televi
sion sets, are comprised of a cathode, which 
under high voltage, beams elections onto 
phosphor coated screen. When these elec
trons excite the phosphor of the screen an 
image is formed by the visible radiation.
In 1977 the National Institute for Occupa
tional Safety and Health (NIOSH) con
ducted a study which made an effort to 
measure the electromagnetic radiation 
emitted by CRTs. The NIOSH study tested 
for the two major ty pes of radiation, both of 
which are produced by the terminals. The 
group tested levels of ionizing (X-ray) and 
nonionizing (microwave) radiation.
continued on page 18
Forbes bridge to close
Cost to exceed $1 million to replace 90 year old span
by Melody Mazzie
By die beginning of June, construction 
should begin on the Forbes Street Bridge. 
The span, which is located on Forbes Street 
between Morewood A\r. and Craig St., will 
be totally removed and replaced by a new 
bridge.
According to Ed McGee, Assistant Direc
tor of the Department of Public Works, 
work on designing the replacement has 
gone on for one year. By April 1st, plans 
should be completed and bidding started for 
a contractor.
The bridge, built in 1892, is of some his_ - torical interest, and consideration was given
orbes Street Bridge, scheduled to be replaced in June, will soon be closed to pedestrians. ralher jt. The cost of
replacing the bridge amounts to $1,000,400. 
The cost of restoring the bridge would be 
50% gretaer, an expense not economically 
feasible.
Consideration was also given to a tempor
ary' construction for pedestrians, but accord
ing to McGee, this likewise was not 
economically advantageous. As as result, 
not only vehicle, but pedestrian traffic will 
be forced to find alternative routes into Oak
land. McGee remarked that the construction 
will require additional planning on the 
part erf students.
At present the Panther Hollow Bridge 
near Phipps Conservatory is also closed to 
continued on page 7

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Big Brother is not watching over you  not yet
CMU is a haven for paranoia. Humanities 
and fine arts students live in constant fear that 
their programs will be eliminated before 
graduation; student organizations protect their 
power and fundings with a watchful eye for 
intruders. The Robotics controversy and the 
most recent installment in the GSO vs. Student 
Senate saga are two current examples of the 
paranoia that is plaguing CMU.
Space Invaders
The administrations devotion to the 
Robotics Institute has become a matter of 
concern for many Fine Arts and Humanities
students. These students worry that the 
enormous funding necessary for Robotics will 
be levied from the budgets of their colleges. 
Another more urgent concern is the allotment 
of space to the Institute: While it is difficult to 
trace the budget of a multi-million dollar 
corporadon (which CMU certainly is), it is 
relatively simple to detect the shifting of space 
from one organization to another.
The major funding for Robotics is coming 
from private industry and donations. These 
donations and investments are earmarked for 
Robotics in the same way that a recent 
donation was designated for renovations of the 
College of Fine Arts.
Humanities students might still complain, 
however, that the administration does not 
solicit funds as energetically for their college as 
it does for Robotics and other scientifically 
oriented projects and with this claim they may 
have a valid argument.
An article in this weeks Tartan helps to 
clarify the process by which Robotics acquires 
space. If students are kept informed by the 
administration about the precise intentions of 
the Planning Department, they can voice their 
protest or approval in a thoughtful way and 
the Big Brother complex that looms over Kiltie 
Cafeteria like a dense fog will evaporate into 
dust.
letters
Student speaks out on housing conditions and missing mail
Editor. (sic) AH of t*s 8^ fr nifty price of ment will remain in effect although the stu- You claim that signs were posted informThis letter is for Mr. Gerry Dalton and the SI62.50/month (based on a standard double dent will not have access to his/her ing us of your intentions just before Christentire crew erf sphincter-lipped incompe- rented for 8 months). The Hockey Team accommodation... Where does it say that we mas break. Obviously these signs were of a
tents at the University Housing Office. presented the Three Stooges last Wednesday are not legally residents and that all of our limited-edition destined to become a high
Im not exactly sure what you have in night. It only cost me a dollar. And there third-class mail will be trashed without priced collectors item. They' rank right up
mind, Mr. Dalton, bull always thought that were three of them. warning? there with unicorns and the mythological
the idea behind campus housing was to pro And to you, Marcia Klosinski, devoted Why not put it in the boxes like you do Golden Fleece in terms of ones chances of
vide students with living quarters that are housing office employee, you have yet to during the regular school year, and if it gets spotting them in the Morewood Lounge
lost cost (sic), convienient (sic), practical and clear all the smoke after throwing out all of to be too much just store it in a closet for a during the weeks preceedmg Christmas
the third class mail received by some 950 while, or even separate it by floors and place break.
The Shirley Apartments are broken into Morewood Gardens residents during Christ- it in the R.A.s rooms? No matter how you cut it, Marcia, mail to
regularity (sic) hundreds of pieces of 3rd 0135 break. Once again, correct me if Im All year long we have been led to believe students was thrown out without their prior
class mail got thrown out during Christmas wrong; tampering with the mails is a federal that our mail was being delivered by the consent or knowledge. For over 200 years the
break the temperature soared to 120 F on crime, let alone outright theft and U.S. Postal Service (at least thatVhow my sanctity and the impregnability of the U S
the fifth floor of C-tower, plants were dying destruction. mail used to be delivered). If this is not the mails has been guaranteed by the consutu
right and left and coated desk tops warped You claim that since the students are not case, and the much-heralded monthly arri- tion (sic) without exception. Is the Carnegieright off Some students have to turn off legally residents during that time you have val of Playboy magazine is subject to the Mellon University Housing Office
their heat and open a window all year long no obligation to them in terms of mail whims of the crew of bungleheads in the somehow above all this? There is a fairly
just to keep their rooms fit for human occu- vice. Morewood Gardens mailroom, why didnt good chance that you will be hearing from
pation In the midst of all this confusion, Paragraph 10 of my housing contract spe- you inform us of that in September, so that myself and the American Civil Liberties 
Gerrv Dalton vou calmly claim that the cifica% states 11131 During the official we could have made other arrangements to Union concerning this matter,
heating system was not malfuntioning. Christmas vacation, all terms of this Agree- have our mail delivered elsewhere. As I read about your plans to eliminate 85
living spaces in on-campus housing, I have
- * m -  to stop and consider what next years Sep-Please try to keep your tacts straight 'SZ'ZZZZt&riZ:
Editor nation could be made on the origin of the Early the next day, I had the door threshold provide pup-tents out on the cut, I don t see
When information supplied in good faith spill occurring at the D-level of Doherty under which more mercury was suspected to how youre going to fit everybody on camis taken out of context, or whenever blame is Hall. I explained that although evidence of exist liften, and performed a complete clean- Pus next fall. I remember as a Freshman, the
fixed on a department solely on the basis of a mercury' spill had been discovered in a up of the area. The amount of mercury particularliy (sic) terrible temporary housassumption, much harm can result from small lab located on the B-level, the configu- collected at that time may have filled a thim- ing that I received upon my arrival at CMU.
such inaccurate reporting. While I feel the ration of the building may have prevented ble. No other mercury was found during the I came very close to spending tfie night in
Tartan editorial board has done much to mercury from being able to travel from this January 30th cleanup. I was totally sur- Your office.
provide improved, factual reporting, I also precise location to the D-level. (This lab has prised to read the announcement that a One last complaint. Why in the hell are 
believe that the January 27th article, More since been completely cleaned of mercury Chemistry Department storeroom was be- we paying a $100 deposit on rooms we aren t
Mercury Discovered, should not be permit- and arrangements have been made to dis- lieved to have been responsible for the mer- going to occupy for another seven months.'
ted to go unanswered. mantle the equipment which is currendy cury spill of November 18th. No ______ Abbot Hoffman
During my brief conversation with your 001 in use.) information of this type was ever transmitreporter, I stated that while investigation of Since the January 27th article places ted by me, and I must add that the coopera- I IIB 
the November 18th mercury spill revealed a events relating to the spill out of their proper tion and assistance rendered by that
couple of possible sources, no clear determi- chronological order, some clarification department during and after the emergency Editor-in-Chief.......................Richard Gorelick
becomes necessary. It was shordy after the has been outstanding. It was the Chemistry Associate Editor................................Bob l^eighty
'WJkT single spill occured in November that open- Department that provided the equipment Managing Editor.........................Robert Zusman
If A OlXj? *ngs were made in the D-level ceiling. This needed to handle the initial cleanup on the Business Manager...........................Linda Hetrick
involved not merely the drilling of small night of the spill. The help provided by a A^st* ManaSer.........Pam Shugamian
Editor holes to drain out any remaining mercury, student employee promted me to send a let- News Editor............................Jennifer Hutton
While I agree that the source of the mer- but the creation erf openings largeenough to ter of commendation to Chemistry a day or eatufes tor  ................ Maureen Bn nnan, . , .... , . . , , . , , ... , , ,.  , Asst Features Editor..............Kathy Krummertcury found on the D-level of Doherty Hall permit total examination of the space above. two after the spill occurred, and finally, the Entertainment Editor Adim I uuar
should be sought diligendy and that the This work was done under my supervision, Chemistry Department has a past record for Sports Editor Gregg Bossier
clean-up should be thorough, there are two and protective equipment was employed by providing good assistance during emergen- Dossier Editor...................................Lynn Epstein
inaccuracies in Bob Harrs story on page one those performing the work. At this time, cies involving chemical spills. It would cer- Photography Editors..............Chuck Chklekel
of the January 27, 1981 Tartan that should approximately a pint of mercury was tainly be unfair to fix blame on any Doug EI1S
be corrected. removed from the overhead space. After all department without adequate proof, espe- Contributing Editors...................... Jim Balsotf
(1) The Chemistry Department is NOT dis- of the cleanup arrangements had been com- dally one which generally displays care in Sue Borg
mantling any equipment in Doherty Hall pleted, I received no further reports of mer- the use of potentially harmful materials. ,byR
that uses mercury. cury remaining within the area of the Production Manager..................Vinoe Gujnto
(2) The Chemistry Department does not and original spill until late in the afternoon of Sincerely, Copyrightc l*l by The Tartan. The Editorial Boa1
did not have jurisdiction over any storeroom January 19th. At that' time, I was informed Robert R Andetegg, riwn the ntfu to withhold from publication
two floors above the Dohetty Hall loading a udmi fed d^nior.fe. we --------------------------------------Un.^,y Safe.y Coorfinau,r ^
dock, that is on B-level Doherty Hall. mercury sull existed on the D level. Had the Uniwmty. PmsburKh, Pennsylvania 15213. Ed*1
Student contacted me in regard to the matter All junuuwrmnui mm ix into tlu- Tartan Oifkrs: Skibo 50. (412) 578-2 III. Business Off it*
Jadci Cochrane, Stoves Manager ^ check of the area couJd haw been tMkv afiermwi at 5 p.m. No < las- skibo 52. <412) 578-2111.24 hour phon-.<412)57^21 U
nitmimy Dept. matdt ^ # quickcr dopup performed. **f* d*1' Alt rirfxs mm**

---------------------------------------------------

February 3, 1981The TartanPage 3
letters___________
Next tme  ask us!
(In response to Daniel M. Rosenblums let
ter to the Editor entitled Plant Propa
ganda? which appeared in the January 
27th edition of the Tartan)
Editor:
The CarnegieMellon Bnai Brith Hillel 
Club had no intention of making any sort of 
political statement during the tree sale. Our 
purpose was solely to celebrate Tu BShevat 
by raising money to plant trees in Israel. The 
posters hanging were an artistical represenLetter Policy
A letter intended for publication must be 
signed and include the writers address and 
phone number for verification. Names will 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter.
tation of the Biblical Land of Israel, not a 
map of the modem state of Israel:
I commend Mr. Rosenblum for voicing 
his opinion. But I must question whether 
his criticism would not have been more con
structive if he had personally brought the 
matter to one of the members working 
behind the table. Had Mr. Rosenblum the 
insight to communicate his grievance at the 
time he discovered the posters, we could 
have explained to him our peaceful motives 
for selling trees and he would not have 
needed to express his anger in a public statemerft. Words should be used as a means for 
communicating and dissolving differences, 
not as a vehicle for misunderstanding and 
building barriers.
Joan Netsky
Camegie-Mellon Bnai Brith Hillel Club
President
BUT//SORRY honey ,
/ SORY Oho ney, UAY 
TO<JTT0 61MO V Aen PCOOoRS.
-----------
FnRBCS SO. 
CLOSED TOPEDESTRI AM 
TRAFFIC
The hostage situation endures: Letter from Btower
Editor
I have a few complaints I would like to 
register here in your paper. Actually, a few is 
an understatement; I can give you enough 
for a six page supplement. That being an 
unreasonable request, allow me, if you will, 
to cover only a small number of my 
favorites.
For example, lets start with $100 deposit 
that the CMU Housing Office is comman
deering irom all future residents of this asy
lum. With an interest rate of 5% on money 
from, shall we say roughly 2000 students. 
Well it doesnt take a math major to figure 
out what kind of money theyre making on 
this. Pray tell, Mr. Dalton, what will you 
spend your share on? Perhaps you can pay
the bill for the incinerauon of three week s 
worth of third class mail from Christmas 
break. But thats another long story. .
Maybe we can discuss Mr. Daltons favor
ite passtime: MUSICAL STUDENTS. You 
know that game....first they stuff everyone 
they can into rooms. Everyone else is put on 
the infamous Waiting List. The Waiting 
List is interesting in itself because every time 
you go to Housing to check it, youre a 
different number. Youre next, dont 
worry.... or, Youre number 33... or, 
.Only three more people before you and....
And....and then they put you in a lounge. 
The rooms themselves arent bad, but every 
other week you get a new roommate, and 
Lord only knows when theyll put you in 
permanent housing.
By the way, permanent housing here at 
CMU is permanent. They assign you to a 
closet with furniture and there is no way you 
can transfer out. Forget the room change 
idea; you have to have a friend in organized 
crime for that.
But lets talk about the man responsible 
for this haven. Ladies and Gentlemen, I give 
you Gerry Dalton. Take my Housing 
director....please.
Mr. Daltons frankly my dear, I dont 
give a damn attitude is a joy to contend 
with. Of course thats if you can get in to see 
Mr. Dalton. He is conveniently out to 
lunch, when he wants to be, or refers you to 
one of his able, efficient office staff.
From the moment you walk into his
office, he is every inch a charmer. He doesnt 
listen to a word you say, is not particularly 
concerned about your welfare, and so what 
if your bathroom ceiling just caved in. 
Heyhes a busy man, what with all those 
back issues of magazines to read....
I would like to know who pays this mans 
salary and how we go about having him 
removed. Must we turn to organized crime 
for that too?
And so thats the way it is on this 131st day 
of captivity.
From Morewood Gardens (and I use that 
word loosely,)
sign me 
The captive in tower B
Breaching the rules of simple grammar  tsk, tsk, tsk
Saresh Santhanam (C.E.) and Sani Nassif 
(E.E.) have contributed a corrected ver
sion of last weeks editorial by Richard 
Gorelick. The original version is on the left, 
the revised version on the right. Corrected 
phrases are in italics.
Santhanam and Nassif ask Who shall 
edit the editor?
When you are a guest in someones house 
you dont insult the cat. You dont point out 
the worn carpet and you dont complain if 
your hosts eat dinner at four-thirty. The cat 
wont go away, there is probably not 
enough money for a new carpet and old 
habits, no matter how annoying or mind
less, are hard to break. If youre at all sensi
tive, you refrain yourself from expressing 
your opinion when the only possible result 
is hard feelings.
Then why is everyone making fun of 
Pittsburgh? Why do we keep insulting the 
Steelers, which wont go away, the pollution 
when we know perfectly well that the 
money is just not there to help it, and that 
accent, an annoying habit to be sure, but 
remember your own glass city.
Less than 50% of the freshman class is 
from Pennsylvania for the first time in the 
schools history. This fact is attributed to a 
concerted effort to get a greater representa
tion of... students from other states. If this 
means the praises of Camegie-Mellon are 
being sung near and far, then we all deserve 
to be congratulated. Still, we cannot forget 
where we are. 
A student was once heard in the line at the
automatic teller to say, The banking 
machines work much faster in New York. 
Well, almost everything goes faster in New 
York City and almost everything goes 
slower in Adanta. Baltimore is cleaner and 
Detroit is dirtier. There is more to do in 
Boston and there is less to do in St. Louis . 
The point is that this is not New York or 
Atlanta or Detroit; this Pittsburgh and this 
is where we are.
Those of us from out of state are neither 
taxpayers nor registered voters in Pennsylva
nia, and therefore have no legal right to 
suggest how the city and state should spend 
its tax dollars. We do, however, as free citi
zens have the Constitutional right to offer 
our constructive answers to the regions 
problems, but it is wise to make sure that 
someone has asked a question.
If we listen carefully, questions come up 
for us all the time, questions that demand an 
answer from us. Issues of financial aid, fine 
arts support and utility costs affect us 
directly, and we would be foolish if we did 
not at least consider them.
Still, we continue answering questions no 
one has asked. No one asked what any of us 
thought of the Steelers. Unfortunately, the 
line between questions that deserve our 
attention and those that deserve our respect 
is sometimes all too thin. We might have to 
resign ourselves to the twenty-one year old 
drinking age, but we dont ever have to 
accept anything as banal as a State Store.
The less we complain about the cat, the 
more our hosts will listen when they ask us 
how to get rid of the mice.
When you are a guest in someones house, 
you dont insult the cat. You dont point out 
the worn carpet and you dont complain if 
your hosts eat dinner at four-thirty. The cat 
wont go away, there is probably not 
enough money for a new carpet, and old 
habits-no matter how annoying or 
mindless-are hard to break. If youre at all 
tactful, you refrain from expressing your 
opinion when that can only result in hard 
feelings.
Why is everyone making fun of Pitts
burgh then? Why do we keep insulting the 
Steelers, who wont go away; the pollution, 
when we know perfectly well that the 
money is just not there to control iu_and that 
accent (an annoying trait, to be sure)? 
Remember your own glass city?
For the first time in the schools history, 
less that 50% of the freshman class is from 
Pennsylvania. This fact is attributed to a 
concerted effort to get a greater representa
tion of ... students from other states. If this 
means the praises of Camegie-Mellon are 
being sung near and tar, then we all deserve 
to be congratulated. But we ought not forget 
where we are.
A studentwaiting in the automatic teller 
line, was once overheard saying, The 
banking madiines work much faster in 
New York. Well, Baltimore is cleaner, 
Detroit is dirtier. There is more to do in 
Boston and less in St. Louis. The point is 
that this is not New York, Atlanta or Detroit. 
This is Pittsburgh,and that is where we are.
Those of us from out of state are neither 
taxpayers nor registered voters in Pennsylva
nia, and therefore have no legal right to 
suggest how the city and state should spend 
its tax dollars. However, as free citizens, we 
do have the Constitutional right to offer our 
constructive answers to the regions prob
lems. But it is wise to make sure that some
one has asked the questions.
If we listen carefully, well hear questions 
that demand answers from us. Issues of 
financial aid, fine arts support and utility 
costs affect us direcdy. We would be foolish 
not to consider them.
Still, we answer questions no one has 
asked. (Who asked what any of us think of 
the Steelers?) Unfortunately, the line 
between questions that do not deserve our 
attention and those that do is rather mgue.
The less we complain about the cat, the 
better our hosts will take our adxnee on how 
to get rid of the mice.
Editors note: Thank you for your response 
and suggestions. As to your question, I can 
only hope that it was not intended to be 
merely rhetorical. While The Tartan 
respects its Wednesday morning editors, it 
has a greater need for assistance, editorial 
and otherwise, on Sunday evenings. There
fore, I invite you both, in all sincerity, to visit 
The Tartan office any weekend to lend a 
hand.
Thank you, 
Richard Gorelick 
Editor-in-Chief
More letters on p. 21

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanFebruary 3, 1981
Siewiorek, Hayes and Kadane
Three Camegie-Mellon professors elected Fellows
Three CMU professors have recently been 
elected as Fellows of two distinguished or
ganizations of Science. Daniel P. Siewiorek 
professor of computer science is now a fel
low of the Institute erf Electrical and Elect
ronics Engineers. Likewise, John R. Hayes, 
processor of psychology and Joseph B. 
Kadane, professor of statistics - dept, head - 
and social sciences are now Fellows of the 
Am rican Association For the Advancement 
of Science.
Flection as Fellow is reserved for those 
whose efforts on behalf of the advance
ment of science or its applications are 
scientifically or socially distinguished.
Siewiorek was honored for contribu
tions to the design of modular computer 
systems. His research centers on the 
structure of computer systems and using 
computers to help design complex inte
grated circuits.
A CMU faculty member since 1972, 
Siewiorek recieved his bachelors degree 
from the University of Michigan in elec
trical engineering, a masters in electrical 
engineering from Stanford University, 
and his doctorate from Stanford in com
puter science. He is a member of the 
IEEE, the Association of Computing 
Machinery and several scientific and 
technical honor societies--Tau Beta Pi, 
Eta Kappa Nu, and Sigma Xi. The 
researcher serves as a consultant to the 
Digital Equipment Corporation, Intext 
Educational Publishers and the Naval 
Research Laboratory in Washington 
(DC.).
Siewiorek and the other newly-elected 
Fellows of the IEEE will be recognized
and honored at the organizations Awards 
Reception in New York City on Monday, 
April 6, 1981.
John R. Hayes and Joseph B. Kadane 
were two of the 453 members of the AAAS 
given the status of Fellow at the organiza
tion s annual meeting in Toronto in Jan
uary. The AAAS is the nations largest 
scientific organization with some 130,000 
individual members and some 300 affil
iated societies and academies of science.
Hayes, who joined the CMU faculty in 
1965, is known for his work in cognitive 
psychology, problem solving, and the 
methodology and theory underlying the 
writing process.
Editors note: This chronology is being 
presented in order to clear up the events 
surrounding the Doherty Hall mercury 
spill. While The Tartan hopes that this 
chronology will afford a clearer understand
ing of the mercury incident, we do not con
sider our investigation to be over.
November 18, 1980-Mercury is disco
vered on the D-level sub-basement in 
Doherty Hall and reported to Campus 
Police and University Safety Coordinator, 
Robert Anderegg. He removes between 30 
and 40 pounds of mercury from the base
ment floor.
Source of the spill remains unknown: 
Although there is evidence of a spill in a 
B-level Chemical Engineering lab in
Hayes holds a B.A. degree from Har
vard University (1951) and a Ph. D. from 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
(1956).
Joseph Th Kadane has been 
elected a Fellow of the American Associa
tion for the Advancement of Science.
Election as Fellow is reserved for those 
whose efforts on behalf of the advance
ment of science or its applications ^re 
scientifically or socially distinguished.
Kadane is currently involved with the 
problem of adjustin the census under
count. He is a member of the American 
Statistical Associations advisory com
mittee to the census bureau and serves on 
the associations technical panel dealing
Doherty Hall (two floors above the major 
spill), Anderegg believes that the configu
ration of the building [would] have pre
vented mercury from travelling down two 
floors of Doherty Hall. Anderegg is assisted 
by Andy Sicree, a chemistry student, in the 
clean-up and Chemistry department equip
ment is used. The recovered mercury was 
temporarily stored in a Chemistry depart
ment storeroom.
Late November, 1980-Large holes are 
drilled in the D-level ceiling to drain any 
remaining mercury and larger openings are 
created to permit total examination of the 
space... The area is thoroughly vacuumed 
out and approximately a pint of mercury- is 
recovered. An arucle in last weeks Tartan 
implied that this process occurred in mid
with the census undercount and appropri- * 
ate methods of adjustment for it. j
Kadane joined the CMU faculty in 
1969 and was named head of the depart
ment of statistics three years later.
He is a Fellow of the American Statisti
cal Association, the Institute of Mathemat
ical Statistics, and the Royal Statistical 
Society.
In 1980, Kadane was elected Pittsburgh 
Statistician of the Year by the Pittsburgh 
Chapter of the American Statistical 
Association.
He holds a B.A. degree from Harvard 
University (1962) and a Ph. D. in statistics 
from Stanford Universtiy (1966).
January. This implication is false.
January 19,1981-John Alexander reports I 
at a University Trustees meeting that mercury remains in the sub-basement.
January 20, 1981-Additional clean-up is \ 
performed-only a thimbleful is reco
vered. No additional holes are drilled at this 
time.
January 27, \98\-The Tartan errone- | 
ously reports that a chemistry storeroom two 
floors above the D-level storeroom may have f 
been the source for the leak. There is, how- | 
ever, no such storeroom. As noted earlier, a | 
possible source of the spill is a B-level Chem- i 
ical Engineering lab. The actual source of t 
the spill, however, remains unconfirmed. 
The Tartan apologizes to Anderegg and the 
Chemistry Department for this error.
The Tartan clarifies the mercury spill
Cut Class
All Next Week
Pick your favorite Art Carved class ring. Cut it out 
Keep it with you for a while. Get an idea what it's 
like to own the ring that says, 1 did it!"
Then, next week, have the genuine article fitted 
by. the ArtCarved representative visiting campus. 
For ime week unlx youll have our newest selection 
of ring styles to choose from  and a specialist 
who will make sure the fit is perfect. Plus, there 
will he Mime incredible ArtCarved offers to cut the 
cost of your class ring . . .
CUT yiHir ties with the past during our Great 
Ring Exchange!" Trading your old 10K gold high 
school ring for a new ArtCarved college ring could
save you as much as SK.Y
CUT the cost of a tradirion.il or contemporary 
Siladium ring to just sSil.'t  a special ArtCarved 
Ring Week discount up to
CUT a smashing figure with a women's class ring 
from our exciting new "Designer Diamond Collec
tion."
Any way you cut it, next week is the best week tu select \uur ArtCurveJ class ring!
/TORVED
V COLLEGE RINGS
SYMHOI IZIMi YlX R ABILITY TO ACHIEVE.
STORE NAMEDATELOCATION
Diposit required MasterCherge or VISA acceptedf ArtCarved QHeist Ring*
Announcing the campus discount:
10% off...on all TI consumer products at the Texas Instruments retail store*
Texas Instruments calculators, watches 
learning aidseven the TI-99/4 Home 
Computerjust show us your valid univer
sity ID and get a 10% discount on just 
about everything in the store*! This offer 
is good through June 10,1981.
TI Programmable 59 
calculator
Discount available to students and faculty.
Special sale items are excluded from this offer.
Visit the Texas Instruments 
retail storewhere all 
of TVs consumer products 
and accessories are available.
onalT IcTsumencsT
Retail Store
Century SSS Mall  6YY-3/00
Texas instruments retail stores are operated by Ttxas instruments Supply Company, a subsidiary of Texas Instruments Incorporated 
1980 Texas Instruments Supply Company I
!

---------------------------------------------------

1981 Housing Information
Who: Students presently living on campus
who want to reserve space in the 
dormitories for the fall of 1981.
What: Need to pay a $100 deposit.
Where: Cashier's Office-Warner Hall 
Concourse.
When: Monday, Feb. 2-Thursday, Feb. 19,
1981 (closed Sat. and Sun.)
Fall 1981 Housing Deposit 
Deadline 4:00 PM Thursday, Feb. 19
February 3, 1981The TartanPage 5
ICMU scientists protest 
oppression of soviet peers
by Maria Barbuto
The problem of Soviet scientists being 
1 expelled from theirjobs and prevented from 
I conducting research is creating an uproar in 
I the global science community. Many westI ern scientists are reacting with great concern 
I and respect toward their less fortunate 
I colleagues.
In an attempt to keep abreast of events in 
i science these refuseniks (Russian scient ists and engineers who apply to emigrate 
I only to lose access to research facilities 
I and/or jobs) hold weekly seminars in pri vate homes. For the past eight years men in 
I all areas of science have been crowding into 
I tiny living rooms to discuss various topics or 
I to rehash their own work in hope of satisfyI ing their hunger for science.
Often, professors from foreign countries 
| will attend as guest speakers: The latest 
seminar was held by CMUs own James 
I Langer of physics and Hershel Markovitz of 
chemistry. They were protesting the arrest of 
t Dr. Victor Brailovsky, a primary organizer
I of the Seminar on Collective Phenomena 
9 in Russia.
The guest speaker was Dr. Victor Yakhot, 
1 a recent emigrant who provided insight into 
V the actual conditions for the refuseniks in 
\ the Soviet Union. Yakhot feels that perhaps
II the mistreatment of these scientists is the 
I Soviet way of testing the Reagan adminis5 trations policy on human rights. Also, the 
' Russians do not feel that their severe actions
are detrimental to their scientific progress
since the refuseniks constitute only a small 
fraction of the science population.
The Russian government is not content 
to merely stagnate the refuseniks careers but 
it must also create problems in their private 
lives, according to Yakhot. After being fired 
from their jobs, the refuseniks are forced to 
earn a living by tutoring or by performing 
menial tasks unrelated to their previous 
positions. They are treated as non-persons 
and are denied permission to publish scien
tific papers in Russia or to mail them abroad 
to foreign journals.
Refuseniks are denied access not only to 
the laboratories but also to the libraries 
where their names are removed from the 
shelves. Incoming mail is interrupted and 
telephones are disconnected. The price of 
applying for a visa is too high for many 
would-be emigrants: even their children are 
prevented from attending the better schools 
in Russia.
It also appears that the KGB manages to 
infiltrate some of the science seminars. Dr. 
Markovitz claims that a little old woman 
who consistently appears at the seminars is 
suspected of being a KGB agent. Since the 
Soviet government has taken such an inter
est in the refusenik issue, it is very difficult 
for foreign scientists to gain entry to the 
Soviet Union. Many have their visas revoked 
at the airport once their intentions have 
been realized by KGB agents.
Disguised as a tourist, Dr. Markovitz jour
neyed to Moscow in 1976. He says that the 
scientists are suffering tremendously from a 
professional point of view. For a younger 
scientist whose career and development 
demands constant work and access to recent 
publications, the isolation is particularly 
crippling according to Markovitz, who says 
that despite the situation, these scientists 
remain committed to their work and hope
ful that their colleagues will aid them.
Renovations planned for walks, EE Dept
BEAUTIFUL BOX 
?F URLEnTinE 
CHOCOLATES
just fill out an 
entry blank in the 
bookstore.
no cost or
obligation
5 U/II1MERS 
names drawn 
FEB. 12 3:00
photo by Robert ZusmanKaren Dann, winner of the trip to Florida offered at the Malibu Beach Party, is congratulated by Bob Pelligrino, co-chairman of the SDC programming committee.
New catalysis laboratory
continued from page 1
lysts in those reactions. A catalyst, explained 
Assistant Professor Edward Ko, is a sub
stance which alters the rate of a chemical 
reaction without changing the nature of the 
chemical.
President Richard Cyert supports the idea 
of the lab because he feels that energy prob
lems can be solved through universityindustry cooperation. Cyert believes that 
the catalysis field is important because it is 
relative to the whole process of synthetic 
fuels. If we can understand more about the 
catalysis process, said Cyert, then we are 
going to get to the point where we can 
design catalysts and this will be important 
as we go forward with synthetic fuels.
When asked whether the university will
be working closely with industry, Cyert said, 
For some parts of it we will...theyre inter
ested in it because theyre interested in the 
research results.
While there are catalysis labs at other Uni
versities, such as Stanford and Delaware, 
Cyert belives that CMU will emerge as a 
leader in the field. We think with the peo
ple weve got and...building on other 
strengths in the university we can move into 
having a first rate lab.
The grant was obtained through the help 
of Dr. Theodore S. Herman, Sun Co. Senior 
Vice-President of technology and former 
president of the CMU Institute of Research, 
and Theodore A. Burtis, Sun Co. President, 
who is an alumnus and a Life Trustee of 
CMU.
photo by Robert ZusmanPerry Colosimo. senior English major, was the winner of last Friday's Malibu Beach 
Muscle Man contest.
New sidewalks and additional Electrical 
Engineering (EE) facilities are renovations 
planned for the spring and summer. A tech
nique using black top and bricks will be 
used to rebuild the campus walkways and 
the presently unoccupied north wing of 
Hammerschlag Hallwill be renovated there
by expanding EE facilities. Attention is 
also being given to the improvement of aca
demic research facilities for Robotics and 
Computer Science. At the present time, trees 
are being planted in front of Warner Hall.
Mr. Fred Rogers, Director of Business and 
Finance, outlined two long term goals in the 
renovation process: new heating, wiring, 
and plumbing for Morewood Gardens, and 
the eventual removal of all administrative 
functions from academic buildings. This 
would include the remodeling of the Coal 
Research Building (the structure next to; 
Warner Hall) for the administrative pur
poses, and the removal of the art facilities, 
also housed in this building, to Doherty 
Hall. In the future it is hoped that functions
such as Public Relations, Campus Printing, 
and Security will be moved out of Baker 
Hall.
This past summer, the College of Fine 
Arts was sandblasted, Porter Hall 100 was 
completely refurnished, and the Engineer
ing and Public Policy offices were reno
vated. During the fall, new outdoor lighting 
was installed in the dorm area on the Hill, 
and numerous trees were planted on 
campus.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanFebruary 3, 1981
Peer Help: counseling ends, tutoring uncertain
by Jennifer Hutton
The Peer Help Center, originally sche
duled to reopen last month, will not offer 
counseling services this semester due to 
lack of student involvement. The future of 
the tutoring services is uncertain.
Last December, the center offered an 
intense program to train prosepective coun
selors, but only a few students responded. 
The program was offered because Dr. 
Robert Morgan, Co-Director of Peer Help, 
said that he and Co-Director Walter Abel felt 
the quality of student counseling offered at 
Peer Help was not up to par.
The program for counselors required 
interested students to train four to six hours 
a week. A prospecuve counsellor remarked 
that he could not afford to devote so much
time to Peer Help during December, the 
month of finals.
According to Dean Swank, the training 
program was scheduled to begin last 
October, but it never got off the ground.
The tutoring services offered by Peer Help 
have encountered managing and financial 
difficulties. H&SS sophomore Dave Liebeskind, formerly a co-director of the tutoring 
program, said that he' was not willing to 
work for the Center unless the administra
tion was more willing to cooperate with the 
students who ran Peer Help.
Do you know how we (students at the 
Center) found out that Peer Help was clos
ing? Liebeskind said, We got a phone call 
on Friday telling us that we had to move out 
the following Monday!
Regarding the Centers financial situa
tion, Dean Swank remarked that the tutor
ing services ran way over the alloted budget 
last semester because non-work-study stu
dents were hired as tutors.
Swank and Morgan both expressed 
encouragement concerning Peer Help next 
semester. Swank remarked, Several surveys 
and studies will be conducted this spring in 
order to determine how much time students
(prospective counsellors) are able to devote 
to Peer Help and what services are needed by 
the student body, Swank said.
Swank added that this spring Walter Abel 
will attend a conference in Illinois with 
directors of other Universities Peer Help 
Centers. Morgan commented that he still 
likes the idea of Peer Helpstudents help, 
ing studentsand he hopes that a new. 
Peer Help Center would be able to provide 
additional services.
Robotics needs more space
(Almost) Free Tartan Valentine Classifieds
You can send a 
valentine of up 
to 20 words for 
only 50<t
The Tartan reserves the right to edit or withhold 
from publication any 
classified it deems unfit for publication, and 
classifieds are not 
guarenteed to appear.
Heres what you have to do:
 type your Valentine 
greeting of 20 words or 
less
 turn in your message 
along with the 50$ to 
the Tartan, Skibo 52 by 
Thursday February 5 at
5 p.m.
 be sure to include your 
name and phone 
number (for Tartan ref
erence only)
by Monica J. Cellio
The new Robotics Institute has asked for 
a larger space allocation from the University 
Planning Office. Robotics currently occu
pies 10,080 square feet of space, but it is 
predicted that in the next three years the 
Institute could occupy up to 60,000 square 
feet.
According to Space and Facilities 
Planner, Byron Falchetti, the extra space 
could come from the Bureau of Mines, 
Science Hall, or Doherty Hall. Although the 
Planning Offices policy forbids any depart
ment, office, or institute from permanently 
taking space belonging to another user, it is 
permissible to temporarily borrow space 
from other departments. Pushing people 
out of their space is difficult, Falchetti com
mented. Everyone is short on space.
Falchetti also stated that the recent focus 
on Robotics tends to blow things out of 
proportion since every department has 
space problems.
Angel Jordan, Dean of CIT, also stressed 
that many departments are crowded. 
Robotics is not taking over anyone elses 
space, he said, but rather they are borrow
ing some space until the Bureau of Mines
opens, at which point the borrowed space 
will be returned.
When the Bureau of Mines does open, 
some departments may move to there, mak
ing more room in other buildings available 
for Robotics, or Robotics itself may move to 
the new location.The Institute plans to use 
the extra space to both expand current pro
jects and add new ones, according to Jordan.
When asked how the amount of space 
used by Robotics compares with that used 
by other departments, Jordan stated, 
Robodcs is not a department but rather an 
Institute. As an institute it works with sev
eral departments and cannot be compared 
with individual departments.
According to Jordan, the Robotics Insti
tute needs quite a bit of space, and the 
question is not if, but when they will get it. 
If the space is not made available, the Insti
tute will not be able to grow. Jordan stated, 
The Institute can grow substantially 
because funding is available from industry 
and government agencies.
Generally, space problems do not fall 
under the Planning Offices jurisdiction 
unless they cannot be settled within the 
department or college. However, Jordan 
continued on page 7
At Great "X" were looking ahead with something that will keep you coming back again and again.
Hair cutters that listen.
HAIRCUTS 
(Wash-Cut-Blow)
0012
COLORINO
2*7 Atwood fttroot
PERMANE NTS
2500
Mon. Edit W*d. 10-7 
Thurs. hr 1.10-9
Sat 9-6
0>Unftit0fK(
M74SW
UNISCX HAIR SALONNo Appoint monti
CMU 
Karate Club
Announces 
beginners classes 
class hours are 
7 to 9 Tues & Thurs 
11:30 - 1:30 Saturday 
Thistle Hall

---------------------------------------------------

February 3, 1981The TartanPage 7
Five year computer improvement plan announced
by Reed Vickerman
Provost Richard Van Horn recently 
chaired a seminar discussing the feasibility 
of providing personal computers to all 
CMtJ students by the late 1980s.
At this day-long meeting, Van Horn, 
along with his new vice provost, Dough 
Van Houweling, unveiled a number of 
ambitious goals for the future of university 
computing. According to Van Horn, CMU 
has come to the end of a five year period 
which witnessed the building of an out
standing computer environment for educa
tion, research and administration.
We are now embarking on a second five 
years, Van Horn said, Strategies range 
from viewing computing as an interesting 
elective to the basic foundation of educcation. In light of this atmosphere erf a 
second five year plan, Van Horn suggests 
] that by 1985 students may experience a dra
matic increase in connect time each week.
Any increase in computer oriented classwork will undoubtedly be accompanied by 
Jan effort to make computers more casual 
and convenient. This goal of accesibility 
will be aided by efforts of the computation 
center to complete a network for mail and 
messages between members of the Univer
sity. Van Horn also projects that text pre
ssing will expand continually to include 
ore and more students, and that library 
rvices such as computerized catalog 
rching will be expanded to include refernce and audio-visual services.
During this latest debate over the growing 
role of computing at CMU, Van Horn out
lined his plan as follows:
Robotics Inst.
continued from page 6 
states that while the individual Dean is 
Jresponsible for the college, he works with 
(the Planning Office.
Falchetti explained the process of space 
jallocation. The Planning Office does not 
make the final space assignments; however, 
there is a space committee to which Planjning makes recommendations. The space 
[committee consists of administrators, deans, 
(faculty members, and two students-a gradu
ate in metallurgy and an undergraduate in 
I architecture.
Space management begins with a compu
terized inventory of how all space is used. 
Planning uses this inventory as a tool for 
1 understanding how space is used and for 
| making decisions. The main considerations 
fin evaluating a situation are the strategic 
{importance of the item, the cost/retum balJance, the efficiency of use of the space, -:he 
suitability of the space for the requirements 
lof those requesting it, and the proximity or 
S location.
Forbes bridge
j continued from page 1 
pedestrian and vehicle traffic. Hopefully, 
this bridge will be completed before the 
Forbes St. Bridge closes. We would not 
want to see all of the bridges closed at the 
same time, says McGee, but if testing 
shows the Panther Hollow Bridge is not 
ready, we cannot delay work on Forbes. 
Apparently the Forbes St. Bridge was 
inspected some time ago and found to be in 
dangerous condition and only recently have 
funds been sufficient to replace it.
At present, Port Authority has no plans 
concerning rerouting of buses from Forbes 
Street. However, the comer of Morewood 
and Forbes may become one of the citys 
most congest! intersections when the 
dosed bridge forces traffic from Forbes over 
to Fifth Avenue.
1980-82
1. Implement the mail and message feature 
in two academic colleges.
2. Install terminals in dormitories.
3. Extend text processing to approximately 
40% of the faculty and 20% of the students.
4. Develop one excellent course-related use 
of computing in each academic department.
1982-84
1. Extend the mail and message feature 
throughout the university.
2. A terminal or easy shared access for every 
faculty member who wishes.
3. One terminal for every ten students.
4. Most faculty using text precessing and 
50% of students.
5. Library catalog on-line to all terminals.
6. Develop computing support tor every
required course if appropriate.
7. In each academic department, develop 
one experimental application for personal 
computing.
1983-85
1. Home terminals for most faculty 
members. Personal computers for 50% of the 
faculty at CMU.
2. Personal computers for every 4-8 students 
moving toward one for each as we replace 
existing terminals with personal computers.
3. Most reports, papers and assignments pre
pared and submitted by text processing.
4. Computing applications included if rele
vant in most courses.
5. Library text and data-bases on line.
In a paper which Van Horn presented 
December 6th, he tried to express his opti
mism in the future of computers at the Univer
sity. The paper read as follows: At this 
point, CMU, to the best of our knowledge, 
has one of the fetter computing environ
ments in the country. We believe that we
supply more educational computing to stu
dents and that we have more widespread 
involvement of our students than the major
ity of top universities. Most of our effort to 
date has focused on improving the basic 
hardware software environment and we 
have achieved or exceeded all of the goals in 
our five year plan for 1975-1980....My script 
calls for such a sequence of incremental deci
sions so that we can in 1981, 2, 3, 4 or 5 
decide that we have gone too far or astray to 
change. To our great fortune, the develop
ing technology gives us this opportunity for 
incremental progress.
Nobel Laureates gather in Pittsburgh
On February 12, the eyes of the economic, 
scientific, and literary world will focus on 
Pittsburghs new David L. Lawrance Con
vention Center where the largest convoca
tion of American Nobel Laureates will only 
assemble for only the second time in the 
nations history.
Free tickets to this event are available in 
the Public Relations Office (Baker Hall 
160). Tickets may be picked up or reserved 
by phone (578-2900).
The first event honoring Americas Lau
reates was convened at the White House on 
April 29, 1962, by President John F. 
Kennedy who described the occasion as 
...probably the greatest concentration of 
talent and genius in this house except perhaps
those times when Thomas Jefferson ate 
alone.
As one facet of the Convention Centers 
week-long celebration, all of the nations 
approximately 100 living Laureates have 
been invited to attend a symposium coordi
nated and spearheaded by Camegie-Mellon 
University. The event, to be held in the spa
cious facilities of the Center, will feature five 
of the Nobel prize winners presenting pap
ers on physics, chemistry, biology, litera
ture, and economics. Although open to the 
public, the sessions will have limited seating 
capacity. Papers scheduled to be presented 
include:
The Energy Problem, Hans A. Bethe, 
Nobel Laureate in physics from Cornell
University.
Confluence of the Medical 
Sciences,Arthur Komberg, Nobel Laureate 
in biology from Stanford University.
Economic Distortion by the Interna
tional Donor Community, Theodore W 
Schultz, Nobel Laureate in economics from 
the University of Chicago.
Culture and Creativity in Present-Day 
America, Saul Bellow, Nobel Laureate in 
literature from the University of Chicago.
Some of the Aesthetic Aspects of 
Science, William Lipscomb, Jr., Nobel 
Laureate in chemistry from Harvard 
University.
Is There Life After Graduate School?
Myth: An advanced technical degree will get you a job 
in industry that will keep you on the production 
line for years before youll get a chance to do 
some real research.
Fact: Fairchilds Central R&D Laboratories have re
search opportunities for new MS and PhD grad
uates NOW.
At Fairchilds Central Research and Development Laboratories in Palo 
Alto, California, the atmosphere is charged with new ideas, new 
developments, and new expansion. Fairchilds increasing commitment to 
strong research programs is extending the frontiers of electronics 
technology in telecommunications, advanced VLSI circuit logic, 
processing systems, CCD image sensing, CAD technologies, and artificial 
intelligence.
All this activity means that opportunities to move directly from graduate 
to industry research couldnt be better than right now.
On-Campus Interviews Monday & Tuesday February 16-17
If youre about to receive a Masters or PhD in a technical field, contact 
your Career Planning and Placement Center for an appointment with a 
representative from Fairchilds R&D Labs. For more information on 
Fairchild in Palo Alto, call J.A. Blades at (415) 493-3100. Or you may send 
your resume directly to University Relations, Fairchild Central Research & 
Development Laboratories, 4001 Miranda Avenue, Palo Alto, California 94304.
As an affirmative action employer, we encourage women, members of 
minority groups and the handicapped to apply.
FAIRCHILD
A Schlumberger Company

---------------------------------------------------


*c \Ve><>
*V&$
TO: AB/Dance, Skibo Info Desk I have a passion for.........................
Campus Mail Whose finest attribute is................
^ Return bv Friday, Feb. 6th.
Funded bv Student Activities Fee.

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Mr. 8c Mrs. Skibo are 
just living together
by Karen Stevens 
and Kathy Krummert
Who do you think they are? Theyre 
such a cute couple. . . But why do they eat
hereT'
The same questions have been coming up 
day after day probably ever since Mr. and 
Mrs. Skibo began joining CMU students 
for dinner over 10 years ago. Five days a 
week the two small elderly figures navigate 
their way through Skibos dinner-time pan
demonium to hang their coats (they are the 
only two to use those neglected racks) and sit 
down to their meal. Last week I joined the 
infamous couple to satisfy many peoples 
curiosity about who they are and why they 
choose Skibo for their dinner outings. I sat 
across from the pert litde woman in the knit 
tossle cap and began by introducing myself.
KAREN: Hi, Im Karen Stevens. I was 
wondering if you realized how much curios
ity youve both aroused by eating here? 
ADELE: Hmmm. . . (and she looked sur
prised). My name is Adele and this is my 
brother Dick, she answered, genuinely 
delighted at my interest. We had no idea
anyone wondered about us.
KAREN: Well, its true. Ive been here for 
three years now and every' So often the topic 
comes up. For example, Ive heard a rumor 
that you two arent married, but are brother 
and sister.
ADELE: Thats correct. Our name is 
Weiner, W-E-I-N-E-R. Is that a camera you 
have there?
KAREN: No, its a tape recorder. Do you 
mind if I record our conversation? You see, 
Im doing this for The Tartan, the school 
newspaper. Do you ever read it?
DICK: Oh yes, we read it... It'has some fine 
articles. . . very well written. So youre their 
correspondent, huh?
KAREN: Right, and we thought it would 
be interesting to find out about you since we 
see you almost every day-we have a few 
questions, for example, why do you eat 
here?
DICK: We work downtown and by the 
time we get home-about 5:30-my sister 
there doesnt feel like cooking so we eat out. 
A restaurant takes an hour to an hour and a 
half by the time we order, get our food, and
Rippin robotics with rhyme
by Dave Land
The new Robotics Institute 
a place of high learning, very astute
Education and business together working 
to keep the pipes of progress perking 
They claim they'll create jobs by the score 
for mechanics and oilers, programmers and more 
The feats these robots perform are real wowers 
One recently walked sixty feet in five hours!
(That's twelve feet an hour; Barring breakdowns or leaks 
that robot could go over a mile in three weeks.)
President Cyert says he sees nothing wrong 
with the way Westinghouse and the school get along
I don't either, but there's a problem, you see 
The Robotics people are on a shopping spree 
A House Bill is passedthe president signs:
Now CMU owns the Bureau of the Mines
five point four million dollars has bought it
And word is robotics already has got it
Their budget is nearing 25 mil,
but that'll go up, you betcha it will
If we don't stop'em now, we'll all be caught nappin'
with an infinite budget, God knows what will happen:
Robots are destined for dangerous places
maybe one day they'll face high school students' faces
Robot police will make criminals lives tough
(But at twelve feet an hour, catching them could be rough)
They've got robots that can see and robots that hear
the time of the robot doctor is near
No problem, if your robot pal's an optometrist,
but watch out for a robot proctoligist
Maybe one day robotic librarians will be the fad
(come to think of that, now, it might not be bad.)
The views expressed in this poem are not necessarily those of The Tartan or of the author.
CMU  a place to hang your hat
eat. Here its much quicker and the food is 
good.
KAREN: Im sure I could find a few people 
who disagree with you about the food. . .  
DICK: . .. of course, no one cooks like our 
mom did-excellent. I remember when I 
went to the Navy; then I really learned to 
appreciate how great a cook she was.
KAREN: You used to eat over in Skibo. 
Why did you switch to Salads Plus? 
DICK: "We read about a diet that advocated 
eating more vegetables than meat. I asked a 
friend of mine in California if this was legiti
mate and he said it was. So for about the last 
three months we have eaten five days a week 
here. On weekends we eat fish and meat at 
home.
Part of this program is exercise.. . we do 
700 exercises a day. . . stretching and bend
ing. .. I do them slower than you should so 
Adele can keep up; if I didnt she wouldnt 
do them.
(Adele shyly blushes and laughs. . . )
KAREN: When do you do all these exer
cises? At night? And why are you doing all 
of this?
DICK: We get up in the morning and do 
the exercises. You know the saying if youre 
physically fit, you feel better, well its true/ 
Mr. Weiner proceeded to tell me of his life 
with his sister-certainly a refreshing change 
from the usual dinner conversation. They 
related to me their hectic days as owners and 
proprieters of Weiner Printing Company 
on the Boulevard of the Allies.
DICK: The printing business is very com
petitive. . . a lot of hard work.
illustration by Jim Nasato
KAREN: Did either of you attend a 
university?
DICK: I graduated from the printing 
school here. I went at night because it was 
less expensive-there was no aid or govern
ment assistance then. More people went at 
night than during the day.
Through a little additional research I 
learned that a night school did indeed exist 
for years. They even had separate TARTAN 
and THISTLE staffs, along with a student 
government committee that contributed to 
the day-time organizations. They sponsored 
their own social events and gave special 
awards for the night students.
Neither Adele or Dick ever married. They 
live together in a house by Frick Park and 
for approximately the last 10 years have been 
driving (during inclement weather) to cam
pus; otherw ise they walk.
ADELE: We think this is a beautiful cam
pus, very quiet. . .We find the students very 
friendly.
DICK: They are highly intellectual. . 
.Some are introverted, but many more are 
well mannered, and more polished than 
others their age.
ADELE: When we sit down people talk to 
us. . .theyre polite enough.
For a time, the interview reversed-Dick 
asked me the questions! I told them a brief 
synopsis of my life story that led to questions 
about the current curriculum.
As our talk drew to a close, Adele com
mented with a big smile, Ask us anything.. 
.we have no secrets. With an invitation like 
that, I couldnt resist--How old are you? 
ADELE: Wrhy Im 16 going on 17. (I 
giggled) O.K. . . .Im 17 going on 18.
Humanities conference brings 
CMU elites to the penthouse
by Bob Brenner
. . . penthouse perfection,
but what goes on, what to do there,
better pray there. .
-In Every Dream Home a Heartache, 
Rojfy Music
Dawn, as they say in Navy recruitment 
ads. Actually, closer to eight a.m. Still the 
devils hour, in my opinion. Ride the Hunt 
Library elevator up to the fifth floor, to the 
Hunt Botanical Institute Penthouse. 
Strange, thats The Flight of the Valkyries 
I hear~will these ApocalpseNow flashbacks 
never end1 The doors hiss open and-Zion! 
Real wood parquet floors, gentle etchings, 
crystal chandeliers, tapestries hanging from 
the walls depicting scenes from medieval
life-stag hunting, peasant flogging. . .Uhhuh, is this where rich people come to dief 
Gelt. The dorms were never like this 
Come de revolution, mon, we bum it all 
down!
Glacial breeze from the receptionists 
desk, strong and menacing. M or dor, where 
the shadows dwell. . . W-what am I doing 
here Pathetic. You are so pathetic. . 
Fixes me with a baleful glare, as they say, 
while one well-shod foot delicately traces the 
surface of the hidden floor button that will 
summon Security in 1.4 seconds flat, and 
not the regular campus Keystones either, but 
real Empire-siyle stormtroopers, with a spe
cial panache for inflicting groin injuries.
I babble something about attending the 
continued on page* 10

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanFebruary 3, 1981
Humanities Conf.  hours without end amen
continued from page 9
Humanities Conference; even as I speak, I 
know my story sounds hopelessly implausi
ble, and resign myself to being beaten till I 
cough up blood (Well, you know, chief, 
these kids do those strange dances, theyre 
like real violent, theyre always hurting 
themsebes somehow. . . ), but at the last 
second the receptionist relentsher right leg 
twinges, but with a visible effort she pulls it 
back. Wrong time of month. . . Maybe its 
the tape recorder in my hand. Maybe my 
demeanor is just too unbelievably spastic to 
be anything else but a CMU student 
reporter.
Graciously Im shown the coat closet, and 
the way to the conference room. Though I 
walk in the i>alley. . . Serfs in plaid livery 
glide noiselessly to and fro, setting up tables, 
chairs, note pads, pencils, coffee and donuts, 
Low foreheads, eyes unfocused and features 
slack. For a moment I catch the gaze of one 
of them, but he quickly turns away, panicstricken. Well nei'er organize this lot. 
Theyve been gelded. ~ach, there yer go 
agin, Bob-" I sample the coffee; maybe, if I
just get enough caffeine into my blood 
stream, Ill be overcome with a sense of 
euphoria, things will seem like lollipops 
and pup dogs. . .
Faculty and administrators begin stagger
ing in. Prez Cyert. Vice-Prez Van Horn. 
Dean Crecine. Associate Dean Penna. And 
on and on. . . some I recognize from classes; 
most are just ciphers in grey suits and ties. 1 
cower in one comer, next to a statue of St. 
Fiacre, patron saint of flowers (good cleav
age, pert breasts, but a little small for my 
taste in things); mustnt pour coffee on Dick 
Cyert or tread on the Deans toes. . . Christ! 
Graduation in sixteen weeks, then REAL 
world trauma, none of this mickey mouse 
stuff. . . What are they talking about? The 
Eagle defense? Terrys break-up with Jojo? 
No, actually, their conversations are quite
formal, all about education, if you can 
believe that. . .
Things come to order-defying, I think 
the Second Law of Thermodynamics. But 
what is the LIniverse to CMUs elite? People 
sit down around the elongated rectangle 
that is the conference table. Dick Cyert and 
the Big Guns are all down on one end, Im 
near the other, I can make them out vaguely 
in the distance, or are those trees? . .. Drink 
some more coffee, Bob; youll feel better. Are
drugs the answer? What was the question? 
I click on my tape recorder; later, when I 
play it back, there will be a surrealistic con
fluence of Donald Duck voices, belches and 
coughs; strangely, whenever I recall Prez 
Cyert speaking, the tape is silent.
.. .a series of unmarked graves discovered 
behind the Fine Arts building. What!
Whoa! Did Dick really say that?! Naw-got 
to get control of my imagination. Maybe
some time in Nicaragua; I understand the 
political realities are getting pretty intense 
down there. . . Actually, President Cyert 
made a lot of at least vaguely supportive 
statements about the Humanities at CMU, I 
nothing in writing, of course, but still 
strange words to hear following rumors that 
Baker Hall will be taken over by the Robot
ics Institute. A lot of folks said alot of things- i 
...(great detailed reporting of the event, 
yessiree bob! Give all the people the news 
that is spit to spew...) No confrontation of the 
central issue though, which is that Ameri
can society is not geared toward the humani- I 
ties. Cant hit that Chaucer, boy, till the 
cows are milked  If there was just a little 
less emphasis on glomming onto every last 
greasy sawbuck in sight, we might find a 
little time to pause and reflect. But who am I 
to judge? People seem to be happy with the | 
systemas long as theyre not migrant for 
workers, slum dwellers, native Americans...
Things drag on. Hours without end j 
amen. Panel discussion after panel discus
sion until the words flow together like mud 
in my brain. Someone produces figures that 
prove something, but for the life of me, I 
cant understand what. Vietnam! What was 
our purpose being in Vietnam? My butt 
aches, its on fire; my bowels start doing the f 
Bop, but Im too much in awe of these Big 
People on Campus to ask where the little \ 
boys room is. Timme standssss : 
stilllllllll...Very Waiting-For-Godot-ish. 
Reality, which has been skating on thin ice j 
for me for some time, begins to definitely ! 
unravel. The professor next to me moment
arily turns into a lobster man, all red and 
chitinous  if one of his antennae touch 
me, Ill scream!and I have to fight off the, I 
instinctive urge to slap him senseless. I 
Wouldnt be decorous. Is it the B-52s or Sam ] 
Shepard thats doing this to me? What is j 
that Edgar Allen Poe story, The Imp of the 
Pewerse, which explores the phenomenon 
of being gripped with the need to self- j 
destruct? Suddenly, Im seized with the j 
desire of scaling the table and belting out the I 
Talking Heads Born Under Punches \ 
(...take a look at these hands/Im a govern
ment man...). Kick out the Jams! Thedesire 
passes wjth an involuntary shudder, my ears 
tear... Dick Cyert keeps playing with his | 
face, moving his lips, sneezing his nose; it 
occurs to me that maybe he is making faces 
at me, I turn away...what is it that film thats 
out now, Scanners, 10 seconds the pain beg
ins, 15 seconds you cant breathe, 20 seconds ' I 
you splatter all over the place like ham
burger on the highway? Oh, this is too 
much, I glanced back, Dick Cyert looks like 
liver now, his features pale, wrinkled, and 
grey. What? What is he saying? Give me 
voui onions? Yaaaaaaaah!
Lunch finally rolls around. I get up and I 
notice Im drenched with sweat. I flee the 
conference room, ahead of the others, and 
take the stairs down to the ground flex, 
back to some semblance of reality. Fresh an! 
Freedom! Home from the realm of the gods!
11 lysses back from Nighttown! Never has 
the magazine lounge in Hunt Li bran 
smelled so sweetI want to rub Time and 
Newsweek all Over me. I run into a member 
of a Uxal new music group and breathlessly I 
relate my exjx riences. Perhaps he can help J 
me comprehend.
It's all 'hit, he tells m< sagely.
____________I
9
Oops! A correction concerning last weeks 
Malibu Beach Parly; All COMMON 
GROUNDS events are s|x>nsorecl jointly by 
AB, Residence Life, and SDC.
McDonalds Presents: _ Ohe Campus Crisis Collection
Free poster with purchase of any large sandwich 
and medium or large size Coke
Trademark CUT
/7VT^ he Coca-Cola Company, famed I I purveyors of good taste, commis-sioned Gregory and Timothy Hilde-v.---r-jJ brandt, famed illustrators of theLord of the Rings calendars to produce an unprecedented series, of five posters. Each is a full-colored, 18" x 24 study of one of the traumas of college life. Together they comprise The Campus Crisis Collection.How, you wonder, can you obtain these wonders? Were glad we asked. Just go
to a participating McDonalds, purchase any large sandwich* and a medium or large size Coke, and you will be presented with an entry in the collection  Home Game, Freshman Counseling, Chemistry 101, Cramming or Blind Date. At no charge.Were confident you wdl be pleased with your Campus Crisis posters. If youre not, write to the Hildebrandt brothers. Youll still enjoy the artfulness of your McDonalds sandwich and Coke.
OFFER GOOD AT PARTICIPATING 
MCDONALD S RESTAURANTS
 3708 Forbes Avenue
 197V McDonald % Corporation
Nobody can do it like McDonald's cam
Either a Big Mac. Quarter Pounder 
(weight before cooking 4 01. or 113 4 gm ), 
Quarter Pounder with cheese 
or Filet-O-Ftsh, sandwich
Offer good - while supplies 
last - through March 15. 1981
Christ! Graduation in sixteen weeks, then REAL 
world trauma, none of this mickey mouse stuff...

---------------------------------------------------

February 3, 1981The TartanPage 11
CMU: a communication maze
by Maureen Brennan
Communication is essential to almost 
any process, especially anything involving 
more than one person. Large organizations 
are notorious for poor communication, and 
it cant help but affect their successful 
operation.
Camegie-Mellon is far from an exception 
to this phenomena.
Just as it is the responsibility of every 
administrator to' administrate, it is the 
responsibility of every student with a gripe 
to complain to the right people--the people 
who can implement change, or at least 
instruct you where to go to implement 
change.
A major loophole in this system is not 
knowing where the right people are, and 
how to get a hold of them. Students often go
directly to Dean Crecine or to President 
Cyert with problems that could and should 
be solved by other members of the university 
administration, but no other offices are so 
generous with their open office hours.
And ideally, they shouldnt have to be.
The Tartan would like to help streamline 
the entire communication problem on this 
campus-starting this week, the names,, 
phone numbers and office numbers of the 
deans, department heads and administrators 
of each of the colleges will be published in 
the Features section. There will also be list
ings of the Warner Hall people, and var
ious campus organizations. When 
appropriate, these listings will include the 
duties of the various persons or organiza
tions, hopefully clearing up any confusion.
illustration by Jell Peters
H&SS DEANS OFFICE: BH 260, X2830 
Dean: John P. Crecine, BH 260, X2830
Asst. Dean: Michael D. Salomon
-Financial management and budgeting 
-Management of Deans office 
-Research administration 
-Work/Study liaison with financial aid 
office
-Program evaluation and evaluation of 
major capital purchases
-Space management, furniture, 
equipment
-College reports, publications
Assoc. Dean: Betty Jane Lloyd, BH 161,
X2926
-Student records and transcripts 
-Academic requirements, academic 
actions
-Student statistics: enrollment, curricular 
and grading information (in consultation 
with Assistant Dean Salomon)
-Alumni and placement 
-Student defined majors 
-Professional concentrations, double 
majors, internships
-College course scheduling
-Academic Advisory Center 
-College council 
-H&SS educational policy 
-University-wide responsibilities
Assoc. Dean for Undergraduate Education: 
Anthony N. Penna, BH 246C, X3748 
-Continued development of H&SS Core 
Curriculum
-Evaluation of Core Curriculum and 
other H&SS undergraduate programs 
-Review and evaluation of faculty 
teaching
-Student recruitment and placement 
-Director, Lilly Fellowship Program (for 
University)
Dir. of Academic Advisory Center: Joseph E. 
Devine, BH 161, X2925 
-Student recruitment 
-Orientation of freshmen to University 
-Counseling and Advising 
-Student Affairs 
-Administradve Dudes
Director of Special Projects: Susan H. Van 
Horn, BH 244, X3580 
-Student-related duties 
-Publicity and public reladons
H&SS DEPARTMENTS:
AMS: GSIA 206; X2294
Coordinator of Undergraduate Programs
for GSIA: Mary' Ann ONan, GSIA 220,
X2294
ECONOMICS: PH 219C; X2874
Head: Dennis N. Epple, GSIA 226; X2874,
2289
Assoc. Head: Thomas Romer, GSIA 321; 
X2874, 2292
Advisor: Robert J. Hodrick, GSIA 133, 
X3583
ENGLISH: BH 259; X2850, X2851 
Head: Richard Young, BH 265; X2850 
Assoc. Head: Granville H. Jones, BH 261; 
2850
Dir. of Graduate Studies: Robert C. Slack, 
BH 267, X2850
HISTORY: BH 240; X2880
Head: Ludwig F. Schaefer, BH 240, X2880
Asst. Head: Eugene D. Levy, BH 240, X2880
Dir. of History Graduate Program: Michael
P. Weber, BH 240, X2882
Dir. of European Studies Program: Peter N.
Steams, BH 242B, X2884
Dir. of Modem Languages Program: Juris
Silenieks, BH 232B, X2892 
Dir. of Philosophy Program: Roger Wer
theimer, PH 255A, X3753
PSYCHOLOGY: BH 342C, X2781 
Head: Charles Kiesler, BH 342D, X2781 
Dir. of Undergraduate Studies: John R. 
Hayes, BH 340E, X2781
SOCIAL SCIENCE: PH 208J, X2833 
Head: Pat Larkey.PH 208J, X2833, X3664
STATISTICS: SCH 7113, X2717 
Head: Joseph B. Kadane, SCH 7117, X2717 
Assoc. Head: John Paul Lehoczky, SCH 
7107, X2717
COMMUNICATIONS DESIGN CEN
TER: BH 253, X2906 -
Dir: Erwin R. Steinberg, BH 249A, X2862
COMPUTATION AND COMPUTER 
TERMINAL FACILITY. BH 239, X3862 
Dir: John E. Stuckey, BH 239, X2854, X2648
EDUCATION CENTER: PH 223, X2935, 
X2936
Anthony Penna, BH 246C, X3748
COMMUNICATIONS SKILLS CEN
TER: CLOSED.
February 8 Sunday
Hannah Senesh multi-media presentation 3 PM JCC 
315 S. Bellefield
February 10 and 11 Tuesday and Thursday
Children of the World Paint Jerusalem Kibbutz Exhibit Israeli Dancing 
Information Table Hebrew Names Booth 10 AM to 4 PM 
Falafel lunch served Films and Slide Show 11 AM to 2 PM 
Skibo Lobby
PLEASE COME JOIN US 
FOR 1981 ISRAEL WEEK 
ON CAMPUS_______
February 11 Wednesday
Cafe Jerusalem entertainment refreshments 7:30 PM 
Skibo Hall Rooms 105 and 106 
February 12 Thursday
Informal Evening With Israeli Vice-Counsul Nimrod Barkan 
5814 Marlborough Ave. Squirrel Hill 
February 13 Friday
Special Friday Night Services followed by $2.50 special, dinner 
Rogal Room JCC 315 S. Bellefield 
February 15 Sunday
Gala Fianle: Gai Joffe, Israeli Singing Trio Donations: students free 
non students $2
University of Pittsburgh Union Ballroom 
For Friday Dinner Reservations Call Hillel: 621-8875, 8876
Emma Kaufman Camp
of the Pittsburgh Jewish Community Center is seeking 
mature, sensitive individuals who desire to work with 
children as counselors and specialists in an overnight 
setting.
Camp philosophy stresses individual growth through a 
group oriented process and teaches skills at all levels of 
children ages 8-15.
Counselors and specialists needed in areas of;
Swimming 
BoatingLake 
Riding
Drama
Athletics 
Arts and Crafts 
Nature Crafts
Salary range $300 to $1500 depending on age, level of 
experience and ability.
Contact: Mark Rubin, Excecutive Director, J.C.C., 621- 
6500

---------------------------------------------------

february 7
MY BODYGUARD Martin Mull trys to keep his love life, hotel, and (Sunken mother-Stulaw in 
order His son, Chris Makepeace trys to adjust from suburbia to the perils of a big city highschool
march 7
GOODBYE COLUMBUS Philip Roth s best selling social satire brings together Richard 
Benjamin and Alt MacG raw, even though theyre not exactly suited for each other, they wind up 
in bed anyway.
lNMHBEDTIME FOR BONZO A classic oldy starring our president andbonzothe monkey. No further 
comment. %
GOOSPELL The film adaptation of the highly successful broadway play, which originated right 
here at your very own CMU Music and lyrics by Stephen Shwartz
PAPER CHASE This is the classic college filmstarrmg Lindsay Wagoner, John Houseman, and 
Timothy Bottoms. I think Ive probably seen this seven times.
CATCH 22 A*an Arkin, Martin Balsam, and Art Garfunkel star in this scathing black comedy 
about a small group of flyers in 1944 Together with co-stars Richard Benjamin, John Voight, 
and Orson Welles, they raise hell.14
HEROES Henry Winkler stars as a Vietnam war veteran trying to orient himself into society 
Along the way, he meets and falls in love with an equally confused misfit, Sally Field, they enjoy 
eating worms together.
ALICE'S RESTAURANT Arto Guthrie's song of the 60 s inspired this funny film of justice and 
the draft and 8X10 glossies
25
i Ba 
mad
2
WIZARDS Ralph Bakshi produced this ten million years into the future fable An animated 
masterpiece that made Disney drool
may
EVERY WHICH WAY BUT LOOSE This is an action-comedy drama starring Clint Eastwood, a 
girl and an orangutan, and they're all in love

---------------------------------------------------

February 3, 1981The TartanPage 13
Ph.D. student studies insomnia in college students
by Paul Smith
If you regularly have trouble falling 
I asleep at night, or if you feel that youre not 
I getting enough sleep to get you through the 
I day, then you are an insomniac. Its a com| mon problem among college students, espe dally in a high-pressure school like CMU.
' ftut right now there is a way you can get free 
i treatment for sleep problems, and at the 
I same time aid in the psychological study of 
I insomnia.
Peter Barach is an intern at the V.A. Hos1 pital in Oakland. He is studying insomnia 
5 in college students as part of his dissertation 
for a Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology. He is
 offering free treatment for students with
 insomnia who are willing to be a part of his
I study. We spoke to Mr. Barach last week, 
1 and this is what he told us._______________
The most common kind of 
insomnia is the kind that 
I relates to dealing with 
stress.
I TARTAN: What is the purpose of your
1 study?
Barach: There are a number of treatments of 
| insomnia that have been found to be effective. What Im doing is looking at two of 
f them and using some personalityquestionaire material to decide which treat! ment would provide the most benefit for 
i which kind of person. And everybody in the
 study does get treatment.
I T: What are the types of treatment?
^ B: I dont want to go into too much detail, 
ft because its important in the study that a 
I person getting one treatment doesnt know 
I what the other one is, and if this article gets 
1 response from people who want to partici3 pate, they ought not to know much about 
I the treatment before it starts, but I can 
f explain generally that both of them are 
If designed to change peoples habits around 
I sleeping; so that they get more efficient bedI time habits, habits more conducive toelicitI ing sleep. There are no drugs involved at all. 
I T: What kinds of personality variables are 
I you dealing with?
B: Again, I cant go into too much detail, for 
 the same kinds ot reasons, mere are a 
I number of scales Im using... Its more sur face kinds of things than deep problems; 
I peoples ways of interacting with the world 
I and dealing with pioblems. Thats about as 
I specific as I could get.
I T: Could you tell us a little about insomnia? 
I B: Its a common problem, to the point that 
I nearly twenty percent of people who go to 
| doctors in America have a sleep problem. Its 
I not necessarily (the problem) they came in 
I with, but is part of their problem or an effect 
I of it. About six percent of the general popuI lation of the U.S. would say they have 
I insomnia, and thats several million people. 
I T: Whats insomnia by your definition of 
I the term?
B: By peoples own definition. They conI sider the problem senous enough to call it 
I insomnia. What Im looking at is people 
I who are having difficulty falling asleep on 
I several nights of the week.
Most people are familar with one or two 
I sleepless nights once in a while, because 
I theyre worried about something, or jet lag, 
I or something, but thats not what were talkI ing about here. Were looking at people 
I with a recurring problem.
You can define insomnia in terms of peo- I pies perceptions of their sleep. Generally it 
I may be described as a person feeling that 
I their sleep is qualitatively or quantitatively 
I insufficient, enough to cause some 
I discomfort.
Medical problems often cause insomnia.
asthma, kidney problems...there are a 
whole slew of things that usually have a 
sleep problem associated with them. But the 
average insomnia is related to stress, and 
peoples ways of dealing with stress in their 
lives. Often people experience a difficulty in 
loosening up or winding down,, when they 
try to go to sleep they find their muscles 
tense, or perhaps they just have a lot of 
things running through their mind that 
they need to take care of. This is probably 
the most common kind of insomnia, the 
kind that relates to dealing with stress.
T: And thats why insomnia is so common 
among college students?
B: Right. Its common in all parts of the 
population, but I think in the collegestudent style of life there are many stressful 
events. Not only classwork and living in a 
dormitory', but also moving away from 
home, getting along with other people, dat
ing relationships, things like that. All those 
things can cause stress. A noisy environment 
is also a common cause, and thats some
thing you always find in dorms. Its a very 
stressful lifestyle.
T: Would you describe just how the pro
gram runs, and what it would involve tor 
someone who came to you with a problem? 
B: When someone calls me and expresses 
interest Ill send them information about the 
study, then call them back in a day or two to 
see if theyre interested in participating. If 
they are, they can come to the V.A. Hospital 
and get started right away.
The whole procedure runs about twelve 
weeks. The first two weeks of it is an evalua
tion period where they are filling out daily 
measures of their sleep; that will take just 
about two or three minutes in the morning. 
Following that I meet with them once a 
week for about a half-hour, for four weeks. 
Ill be using that time to give them instruc
tions to change their sleep habits. Thats the 
treatment. Thats when they should begin to 
continued on page 14
This is one CMU student who doesnt have trouble with insomnia.
LEGAL SERVICES RELATED TO 
IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION
Buchanan, Ingersoll, Rodewald, Kyle & Buerger,*
Professional Corporation 
600 Grant Street 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 
412-562-8972
TEMPORARY VISAS PERMANENT VISAS (GREEN CARDS) 
LABOR CERTIFICATIONS RELATIVE PETITIONS 
CITIZENSHIP
Pennsylvania does not recognize or certtify legal specialities.
Independent.Ambitious.Unconventional.Curious.Uncertain.
Five words that don't scare us at Digital
In fact, if these five words describe you, 
we'd like to meet you.
We are the world s largest producer of 
minicomputers. And we've always been the 
ideal place for independent- I
minded people who want to grow ^1HI 
fast. People who want to ^U|mmma
investigate and apply new approaches to 
problem solving. People who want the time 
and opportunity to find the right career path. 
Consider us when you're ready toD
 beg in your career.
We are an equal opportunity' 
employer, m/f.
We change the way 
the world thinks.
See us on campus.
A Digital representative from ^entra^ Engineering
will be on campus on February 17, 1981
to meet Electric^ & Mechanical Engineers, Computer Science Majors, Technical Writers & MBAs 
For additional information, contact: Your Placement Office_________________________________

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanFebruary 3, 1981
NWMHtt. -  V it A _____
WOMAN
ULY TOMLIN CHARLES GRODIN NED BEATTY A LljA Production
"THE INCREDIBLE SHRINKING WOMAN" i- ?MiIWritten by JANE WAGNER Music by SUZANNE CIANI  Produced by HANK MOONJEAN 
Executive Producer JANE WAGNER Directed by JOEL SCHUMACHER A UNIVERSAL PICTURE Read the JOVE Book  Copyright  1980 by Universal City Studios, Inc. IfcNeut.twww'wBia mlsom ttnrtmM hmywot turttmxtoao+im*
NOW PLAYING AT A THEATRE NEAR YOU
____ iCosta Rican student responds to El Salvador article
Last Tuesdays Tartan featured a story on 
three CMU students from El Salvador. The 
author of the article was Luis Ball, a junior 
economics major from Venezuela. The fol
lowing is a response from Dave Treleaven, a 
junior electrical engineering major bom in 
Costa Rica.
by Dave Treleaven
Luis Balls informative article on El Sal
vador came at a very appropriate time. 
Ronald Reagan sits in the Oval Office with 
new policies which (I can only hope) will 
entail more U.S. involvement in that coun
try. All Americans should understand what 
the real situation is.
We must listen to Francisco Quesada 
(CMU student) when he points out that it is 
trained guerillas who are doing the fighting. 
Following the agrarian reforms in El Salva
dor most peasants would prefer to give the 
progressive government of Napolean 
Duarte a chance.
This is not a product of idealism we are 
dealing with. Lets not kid ourselves. It is
Cuban and Nicaraguan commandos well 
trained in murder, kidnapping and wha
tever form of destruction necessary to 
achieve this end. Inspection of casualty lists 
and the appearance of massive quantities of 
Soviet weapons testify to this.
You might well say it is easy to make these 
judgments never having lived under the rul
ing hand of the 14 families, or dictators 
like the late Anastasio Somoza of Nicaragua.
I am a citizen of Costa Rica. Lying south 
of Nicaragua, this country has been 
regarded as a cornerstone for democracy in 
Central America. We have the highest liter
acy rate in the region, coupled with a large 
segment of the population who are small 
landowners. This has resulted in a remark
able political stability: there are no 14 fami
lies in Costa Rica.
Recendy though, we have been plagued 
by much civil unrest. Labor strikes of every 
kind (railroad, dock workers, banana, even 
medical) have chronically paralyzed busi
ness. Tens of thousands of tons of bananas 
(a prime source of dollars for our large trade 
deficit) have rotted on the docks due to a few
handfuls of professional instigators, receiv
ing their financing from communist 
sources.
Their efforts to drag down the economy 
are not new. Seeding misery and malcontentment is the means justified by the com
munist end. It is important that Americans 
have a clear picture of the facts in the years 
ahead. The future of the hemisphere is at 
stake.
A guerilla victory in El Salvador comple
menting the frente sandinista forces of 
Nicaragua would be disastrous. They 
would make short work of the precarious 
balance already in Guatemala, a country 
known for random bursts of violence by 
leftists.
The student disguise has been a very 
convenient one for the left. Students have 
been reaching young people in our educa
tional system in alarming quantities. At the 
University of Costa Rica, in the midst of 
democracy, no pretense is made by a very 
vociferous and militant minority (not so 
minor) about their aspirations. They 
remain safe in their disguise.
The real students are Francisco, Roberto 
and Maria Eugenia who will return to hold J 
the fort, to construct where destruction I 
prevails.
  I
Insomnia *
continued from page 13 -
see some benefit, some improvement in their ; 
sleep. Then theres a six week follow-up 
period where they just fill out the sleep ques
tionnaire, they should have and retain bene- 1 
its by this time.
T: So the subjects benefit is as important i 
here as the study?
B: Yeah. I really am concerned with people 
improving their sleep.
So if you havent slept well lately and 
want to correct the situation, you can call 
Peter Barach at the V.A. Hospital at 683- ? 
3000, or in the evenings at 363-7495. You g 
will get professional help, you wont have to 
pay for it, and youll be helping future gen
erations of wired-out college students just 
like you.

---------------------------------------------------

\erlin to Broadway is completely sold out to patrons
by Adam Lauzar
Opening this week in the Studio Theater 
is Berlin To Broadway With Kurt Weill. 
The cabaret-revue, playing February 5 
through 14, is open only to patrons of the 
CMU theater, CFA faculty, and drama stu
dents who are required to see it. Most of the 
CMU community will not be able to see the 
show, due to the small capacity of the studio 
theater (84 seats) and the limited run. The 
'inordinate response from CMU patrons was
the result of an accelerated campaign by the 
CMU Drama Department to collect revenue 
for future projects. The option to extend the 
run of Berlin To Broadway, directed by Mr. 
Myron Nadel the coordinator of the musical 
theater department, was ruled out because of 
prior scheduling in the Studio Theater and 
the physical demands upon the performers. 
Twelfth Night, which is opening next 
week, will occupy Kresge Theater and there 
are no other suitable theater spaces availaKurt Weill retrospective 
opens in Studio Theatre
by Richard Gorelick
There is a show opening this week in 
Camegie-Mellons Studio Theatre that will 
run for ten days. Most CMU students will see 
this show sometime in May. Berlin to 
Braodway, which traces the songwriting 
reer of Kurt Weill, is virtually sold out to 
atrons of CMU theater for its Studio Thearun (see article by Adam Lauzar). With 
recent postponement of Rachinoff, howver, there is an opening in the Kresge Theae in late spring for Berlin to Broadway. 
Camegie-Mellons version of Berlin to 
roadway, directed by Myron Nadel, will be 
ubstan daily different from the production 
lat appeared on Broadway a few years ago. 
he Broadway production featured four 
rformers and a narrator-In CMUs prouction, eight students of the drama departent will recreate the songs of Weill. The 
ast includes Karen Babcock, Sue Burkheiner, Kent Gash and Jordan Thaler-all feaured in the mainstage production of The 
Suicide, while Cristine Deveau, Jeremy 
iann, Michael Oberlander and Tamara 
lTunie, who all recently appeared in The 
ountry Wife on the Kresge Stage round out 
e cast. David Pevsner will take the role of 
ie narrator.
In addition to doubling the cast size, 
adel has changed the format of the show in 
rder to make Weill s music more approachble to audiences weaned on American muscal theater. In the Broadway version, 
ccording to Nadel, the performers adapted 
songs to their individual singing styles: 
he CMU cast will be providing Weills 
ngs with dramatic context, recreating the 
ssence, if not actual scenes of the orignal 
Veill shows. 
For the production in the Studio Theatre, 
ach performer will assume different characthroughout the evening as various Weill 
hows are recreated. These character 
changes will be clarified by Kathy Grillos 
functional and colorful costumes. Nadel 
characterizes the difference between the 
CMU and Broadway versions by explaining
that, Instead of a review of Wells songs, we 
will be doing a review of Weills show's.
Nadel claims that since Weill's songs are 
not heard by American audiences in their 
original German, they are receiving his 
music second-hand. By offering only a 
review of the songs, without dramatic con
text, the audience is removed even one step 
further from Weills music. Nadel, by 
adding theatrical situation to Berlin to 
Broadway, hopes to move the music one 
step closer. A vital part of the 
essence will rest in dramatic movement and 
dance of the actors, choreographed for Ber
lin to Broadway by Judy Conte.
Material from the Broadway version has 
been deleted for the Studio Theatre show, 
including songs from Lost in the Stars, 
and songs have been added from Street Scene 
w'hic h has become the productions center
piece. A Weill song that introduced Danny 
Kaye to the American public, but that was 
not included in the Broadway show, has 
been amended to CMUs show: Tchai
kovsky, an elaborate, intricrate song with 
Gilbertian lyrics, will be performed by 
David Pevsner and Kent Gash.
The difficulty of Weills music is, how
ever, not limited to Tchaikovsky". His 
songs span a w ide range from legitimate to 
character singing and from "high to low' 
registers. While Weills melodies may not 
fall from ones lips as he leaves the theater, 
several Weill songs have emerged out from 
the theater and into the popular culture. 
Mack the Knife and Sagaof Jenny are 
two notable examples.
Camegie-Mellon students may be expe
riencing a small degree of jealousy in the 
next few weeks when students at Waynesburg College and Butler County Commun
ity College view Berlin to Broadway. These 
and other organizations will be seeing the 
complete production, except Emilio Bugallos art-deco set, that CMU w ill have to wait 
until May to see.
ble. While students of CMU will not be able 
to see Berlin To Broadway, students at other 
colleges will. The nine member troupe will 
perform Berlin To Broadway at: Butler 
County Community College on February 6, 
Slippery Rock College on February 7, Waynesburg College on February' 12, and the 
new David L. Lawrence Convention Center 
on February 15, as an exercise and expe
rience for those participating in the show. 
The decision to take Berlin To Broadway on 
the road did not emanate from the Drama 
Department but from CMU student Marcy 
Trent. The idea grew' out of a project Ms, 
Trent did for her Theater Management 
class.
Recently the producers of Berlin To 
Broadway at CMU were running into prob
lems with the CMU community because of 
the lack of tickets. According to Ms. Brenda
Meeks, who operates the box office, student 
interest in Drama Department shows has 
been increasing recently and the request for 
tickets for Berlin To Broadway would seem 
to bear her out. There might be a chance for 
the CMU community to catch Berlin To 
Broadway in the spring because of a change 
in the Drama Departments schedule. 
Rachinoff, a new musical, originally sche
duled as CMUs mainstage spring show has 
been postponed until next semester. Rachi
noff formally scheduled for April 23 
through May 2 may be replaced in the 
Kresge Theater by Berlin To Broadway. The 
Drama Depertment is currently mulling 
over the idea. So, do not entirely give up 
hope of ev er seeing Berlin To Broadway on 
the CMU campus. With enough CMU com
munity support, the producers will be more 
likely to schedule Berlin To Broadway this 
spring.
AboveXxtA Astaire working on the fine points of his dance. Bob Landry, 1945 
Below left shipyard worker heads home to Tennessee at the close of WWIL Phil Stem, 1945
yooking at Life
by Dena Santoro
So you have a few' hours and nothing to 
do? Good. Or a few' hours and something 
you really dont want to do? Better. Then 
walk, ride (stagger, thumb) to the exhibit 
now on display at the Frick Fine Arts 
Museum, Pitt campus. It is LIFE: The First 
Decade, its also...
Great THE best Terrific W7ait til 
you see the war photos wait til you see the 
movie stills Incredible Etc. Etc...and still 
more Etc. Everyone said so, so I summonned the energy to wralk all the way 
down there. And it was. Terrific. Great. 
THE best. One friend said it made her feel 
like she could never Ix1 a great photo
grapher. I felt that way too. Its the besi This 
show is composed of photographs from a 
most vital and important period in Ameri
can and world history, the years 1936-45. It is 
portraits of the famous, the infamous, the 
heroes, heroines, and unknowns that made 
that world. Its thewar(WWII-the Big One), 
Scarlett under a staircase, DiMaggio hitting 
a homer. Its photographers Ansel Adams, 
Cecil Beaton, Edward Weston, Margaret 
Bourke-White, among others. Its history' for 
history lovers, and easy to take history for 
history non-lovers.
Its FREE. So now you dont have any 
excuse. The show runs until February 22, so 
you have a few weeks to get there. The Frick 
Fine Arts Museum is convienently located 
in the Frick Fine Arts Building, which is 
across from the Carnegie Institute Library 
in Oakland. Since the bridge is closed, youll 
have to walk down Forbes from school, then 
back to the Library' (on the side of the 
Museum). Across the street there is a foun
tain with statutes play ingin it...the building 
next to it (white, curving stairs, wooden 
doors) is the Frick. The museum is open 
Tuesday through Saturday 10 am to 4 pm, 
and Sunday 2 to 5 pm. Mornings are less 
crowded, Sundays are the overflow from the 
Phipps, but suit yourself. You have 39 hours 
a week from which to choose. The gallery is 
closed on Monday. W7hile you are there, you 
may want to buy a copy of the reproductions 
book, its $4.00 with student i.d. A nice book, 
but nothing like the originals.
Perhaps you are wondering why I havent 
said more about the photographs. Ok, 
maybe you arent. Well, heres why any way: 
any critique of this show' would be, in my 
humble opinion, at least, a waste erf words. It 
is - well, just go. Just get there, okay? Just go.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanFebruary 3, 1981
Kagemusha:Japanese epic film is charged with electric energy
by Gina Qsbom and Robert Wagner
Perhaps one of the best foreign films of 
the year, and recipient of the Palme Dorre 
1980 Cannes Film Festival, Kagemusha 
(The Shadow Warrior), directed by Akira 
Kuroswana is a superb visualization of the 
feudal wars that occured in sixteenth 
century Japan. Kuroswawas ability to 
create an intense rhythm through his keen 
use of color charges the film with a powerful 
sense of electric energy. Kuroswawa goes 
beyond using color in the standard fashion 
(costumes and sets), and infuses the whole 
screen with brilliant hues. The viewers 
attention in this typically long epic film is 
held by Kuroswawas imaginative use of 
detail. The movement of the actors is so 
finely articulated that the film seems to have 
been choreographed. It is interesting to note 
that Kuroswawa uses Western 
orchestrations even though the film is 
historically accurate in all other regards.
(Music is performed by the New Japan 
Philharmonic Symphony.) Technically the 
film gets an A.
The action and plot of the story, however, 
are subordinate to the technical aspects of 
the film. The rather basic premise of the 
story centers around the actions of a thief 
employed by a W'arlords generals to 
impersonate the warlord Shingenafter he 
is killed in battle. The thief, like a shadow, 
has purpose only in imitating the
originators action. But when the people 
find out that the real warlord is dead, the 
thief becomes useless and is spumed by 
those he helped. Tatsuya Nakadai, the thief, 
does a seemingly good job of acting, 
although it is difficult to determine whether 
or not his intonations correlate with the 
English subtitles. While discussing the 
action of the story, it is important to point 
out that Kuroswawa manages to keep the 
ever present battle scenes fast-paced and 
interesting.
The metaphorical references are
unoriginal and somewhat heavy-handed 
(typical use of mist, shadow, etc.), 
nevertheless they succeed in their most basic 
points. Two allegorical references 
embedded in the story are search for 
personal identity and the idea of overcoming
the quality of life which makes it seem like a 
dream. As a general criticism of the film, the 
plot is rather dry, but this defect is 
overshadowed by Kuroswawas stunning 
use of visual effect. Although the film is not 
light or relaxing, the final outcome is very 
satisfying.
Dixieland Dregs
by Ted Smits
A limited number of reserved seating 
tickets are still available for this Sundays 
Dixie Dregs concert. Tickets may now be 
purchased at the Skibo Infomation Desk,Schlumbeiger
...not exactly a Burger.
Electrical/Mechanical Engineers Physics & Geophysics Majors
INTERVIEWS:
MEETING:
Carnegie-Mellon University 
Tuesday, February 17, 1981 
Monday, February 16, 1981 
7 pm, Skibo, Room 45
No, Schlumberger is not a burger. Nor is it 
pronounced burger (pronounced Shlum Bur 
Zha). But, Schlumberger engineers are as 
indispensible to energy production as meat is 
to the hamburger.
Schlumberger is the worlds leading oilfield 
service company. We make precise 
subsurface measurements at wellsites on the 
earths formations surrounding a well bore.
The petroleum industry relies on our 
judgement to continue drilling operations, or 
abandon the well as a dry hole. A decision 
amounting to hundreds of thousands of 
dollars.
Just as meat is the critical ingredient of a 
hamburger, Schlumberger engineers are as 
vital to an energy-hungry world. If you have 
the confidence to accept more authority and
An Eaui Opportunity Emptov*r Wf
responsibiity than youve ever had, consider 
joining Schlumberger.
If a rewarding outside job and demanding 
work appeal to you, attend our information 
meeting scheduled for the day before our 
interviews.
Learn about our company and the career 
opportunities we have for you. A brief slide 
presentation about our Field Engineering 
positions will be followed by a questionanswer period. Spouses are invited to come, 
too. If unable to attend, inquire about 
Schlumberger at your Placement Office.
Schlumberger
the Pitt Box office or Heads Together. A I 
small number of tickets currently being j 
reserved for promotional purposes may be 
put on sale the day of the show at Skibo 
Information Desk. Information on where to I 
find tickets can be obtained by calling 578 
2107. I
Currently criss-crossing the country on a I 
prolonged tour of the eastern United States, I 
the Dregs have been playing to sold-out, 
enthusiastic crowds eager to hear the five-1 
man bands sophisticated blend of jazz rock 
fusion. The Skibo Ballroom show will be 
the last gig of the tour with the band plan-1 
ning on heading home for some rest and I 
relaxation before starting on a new album, i 
Reviews of the latest Dregs shows have * 
been almost uniformly complimentary. 
The lead guitar work of Steve Morse and the 
overall tightness and skill of the group 
have been repeatedly praised. Playing - 
totally instrument concerts (a la Jeff Beck) I 
the Dregs have established a well deserved | 
reputation as a highly qualified non com 
mercial band. This means you might not see f 
them on Solid Gold but you can see them in 1 
the Skibo Ballroom.
For ticketholders who might want to | 
check out the bands latest album before f 
Sundays show, the AB Concerts Committee 
and WRCT will be holding a very special 
listener call-in contest this Friday night, 
February 6 at 12 midnight. Exactly at the 
stroke of midnight, right between Charlies f 
9 to 12 show and Berkely Shroeders Wet 
Pillows at Midnight show, listeners will be 
invited to call in and answer this question: j 
How many people are there in the Dixie 
Dregs? The tenth caller with the right g 
answer will win a copy of the groups latest | 
album, Dregs of the Earth. 
The doors will open at 7:30 PM for the 8 J 
oclock show. An Evening With the Dixie 
Dregs is presented by the AB Concert*  
Committee which is funded by the Student 1 
Senate from your Student Activities fee.
Looking for?
work space, 
painting space, 
or
photo space
Room available with 
high ceiling and large window 
Call Mike 781-6827
ABORTION
 free pregnancy tests 
* confidential counseling
WOMENS HEALTH 
SERVICES, INC.
downtown Pittsburgh 
(412) 562-1910
 non-profit modlenl facility
3

---------------------------------------------------

February 3, 1981The TartanPage 17
A Dracula of the masses, but not for the masses
by Tim Fiori
The person who came up with the idea of 
Christmas in July was obviously a bon 
vivant. But what to call someone who cele
brates Halloween in February? Vivant 
satanique?
Call them what you will, playwright 
Leon Katz and the Pittsburgh Laboratory 
Theatre are celebrating all the joys of devil 
worship and vampirism, now through Feb
ruary 8th at the Lion Walk, 420 North 
Craig. Dracula: Sabbat, directed by Bill 
Royston and scored by CMU undergrad 
Michelle DiBucci, revels in demonic mysti
cism. It screams the unspeakable evil 
barely suggested by Bram Stoker, making 
Lugosis Prince of Darkness seem but an 
errant knave in comparison.
Dracula: Sabbat, as the title implies, fuses 
together two infamous symbols of supernat
ural intrigue. Scenes adapted from Stokers 
stage version, the story of Draculas proselytism of Lucy, serve to supplement and sup
port the main action of the play: the Sabbath 
worship service of the Devil. Surrounded by 
a ten member coven, Dracula claims Lucy as 
his eternal victim, while presiding over the 
Black Mass both as High Priest and God. 
Katz Dracula is more than a nocturnal car
nivore; hes Satan himself. In fact, the play is 
presented as a religious ritual that equates 
Dracula to the savior of mankind. He is the 
hero of the play.
Needless to say, the squeamish and 
devoutly Christain take heed; Dracula: Sab
bat doesnt pull any punches. Roystons 
clever staging, with the aid of a few special 
effects, give the ritual scenes an aura of ten
sion and horror as intense as any in The 
Exorcist, Rosemarys Baby or the like. The 
communion scene in particular is stunn
ingly macabre. Gathered around the alter 
Dracula and his coven dismember a baby (a 
plastic doll), collect the blood dripping from 
the severed torso in a silver chalise and pass 
it around to drink. Such scenes would be 
valuable only in sensational terms if the rest 
of the production werent focused; but here 
they work well to demonstrate the extent of 
Draculas powers.
As an added dimension of the supernatu
ral between scenes of the Black Mass and 
Lucys conversion, a haunting voice recites 
passages from Timothy Learys The Psychodelic Experience, an adaptation of the 
spiritual struggle immediately following 
death as described in The Tibetan Book of 
the Dead. Can you imagine a voyage of the
dead? You say, Im dead, what shall I do? In 
misery, you know you will never return. 
The voice-over offers invitauons to expe
rience the torment of death consciousness.
Dracula: Sabbat is a master stroke of 
omnipresent evil. Conjuring up absolute 
fright on one hand, and total fascination on 
the other, its the most effective version of the 
Dracula legend to date. Before this version, 
the legend resembled an imaginative ghost 
story. Now, Dracula is a three-dimensional 
villain of profound power and invincible 
evil.
Despite the productions disturbing con
tent, Dracula: Sabbat is far from depressing 
or revolting. If anything, it is exhileraung, 
though not necessarily in terms of personal 
agreement with the subject. In simple terms 
of dramatic sensation, the producuon palpi
tates with energy. The acdon, the costumes, 
the musical score, the staging all come 
together to produce a powerful, sometimes 
surreal festival of the occult.
Dracula: Sabbat has a definite charm to it, 
and, believe it or not, an undercurrent of 
humor, black indeed and teeming with 
irony. The coven is so devout, and Draculas 
power so graphically displayed that Dr. Van 
Helsing (David Marchick), Dr. Seward (Phil
Thomson), Mina (Leslie Sullivan) and 
Arthur (Ron Hicks), seem absurdly inade
quate to challenge them. Dressed to the teeth 
in white, the good guys almost glow amid 
the black set. They are so obviously the 
wholesome Christians that, upon their 
entrance in the last scene, the crazed Renfield (Bob Peters) exclaims, They come! 
The righteous ones! Lines like that can 
prompt even the most sensative observer to 
chuckle between decapitadons.
Ihough the acting is for the most part 
good, Dan Large as Dracula is outstanding. 
With a minimum of lines and gestures, he 
embodies the power, strength and intense 
evil the enure play strives for. Also, Maria 
Barney as Lucy is delightfully demonic. A 
list of achievment would not be complete 
without commending the coven members 
for tight ensemble acdng and the best por
trayal of blood-thirsty lowlife since Night of 
the Living Dead.
All in all, Dracula: Sabbat is a unique 
producdon that improves an old legend by 
introducing a new theme. It captures the 
heart and soul of Dracula by giving true 
meaning to his utle as the Prince of 
Darkness.
CUSTOMER INFORMATION FROM GENERAL MOTORS
HOW TO FOIL A CAR THIEF
A FEW SIMPLE PRECAUTIONS CAN REDUCE THE RISK OF THEFT
The numbers are stag
gering. Every 37 seconds 
or so a car is stolen some
where in the U.S. That 
adds up to almost 800,000 
cars a year. But you can do 
something to keep your car 
from becoming a statistic. 
Start by avoiding these four 
common parking mistakes.
The Just for a Min
ute Syndrome. When you 
leave your car, even if its 
just for a minute lock all 
of the doors and take your 
keys. In fact, about one of 
every five cars stolen was 
left unattended with keys 
in the ignition. Keep drivers 
license and vehicle registra
tion cards in your wallet or 
purse. If a car thief finds 
these documents in the ve
hicles glove box, he can 
impersonate you if stopped 
by the police.
The Isolated Loca
tion. Its safest to park in 
a locked garage, but if you 
cant, dont leave your car 
in a dark, out-of-the-way 
spot. Instead, try to park 
on a busy, well-lighted 
street. Thieves shy away 
from tampering with a car 
if theres a high risk of be
ing spotted.
The Display Case. 
Theres nothing more invit
ing to a thief than expensive 
items lying in your car, in 
plain sight. If you lock these 
items in the trunk or glove 
box, theres less incentive 
for a thief to break in. Also, 
when you park in a com
mercial lot or garage, be 
cautious. Lock your valu
ables in the trunk, and, if 
you must leave a key with 
the attendant, leave only 
the ignition key.
The Space at the End 
of the Block. In recent 
years, professional car-theft 
operations have become an 
increasing problem. Unlike 
amateurs, the professionals 
are not easily deterred. Cars 
parked at the end of a block 
are easy targets for the pro
fessional thief with a tow 
truck. So, its best to park 
in the middle of the block. 
Be sure to turn your steer
ing wheel sharply to one 
side or the other. That will 
lock the steering column 
and prevent the car from 
being towed from the rear.
Unfortunately, theres 
no such thing as a theftproof car. But at General 
Motors, were equipping 
every car we build with anti
theft features. We want to 
help you make it as difficult 
as possible for any thief 
amateur or professional 
to steal your car.
This advertisement is part of 
our continuing effort to give cus
tomers useful information about 
their cars and trucks and the 
company that builds them.
General Motors
People building transportation 
to serve people

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanFebruary 3, 1981
Video terminals may be causing health problems
continued from page 1
The NIOSH study read, Based on the 
above (1977 study) measurements, the cur
rent safety standards, and present know
ledge of biological effects, the VDTs surveyed 
(in a number of large newspapers) do not 
appear capable of producing levels of radia
tion presenting an occupational ocular radi
ation hazard.
Despite these results,77i< Tartan conconducted its own inquiry into the question 
of radiation. Aided by Dr. Francis Bomba, 
radiation officer, a survey was taken of the 
radiation being emitted by several CRTs 
in the Science Hall public terminal room.
All measurements were done by slowly 
scanning display screens filled with charac
ters. In addition to the screens, the grills and 
panels on the other sides of the terminals 
were also checked. The highest recorded 
level of ioninzing radiation was .4 mR.hr-1.
This maximun record level was well 
within the allowable level set by OSHA of 
2.5 mR.hr-1 based on a 40 hour week. The 
highest level found for nonionizing radia
tion was also within the loosely defined lim
its for microwave radiation. As the federal 
officials earlier concluded there appeared to 
be no detectable radiation danger.
Despite tire controversy and research con
cerning the threat of radiation another, and 
as of yet not fully investigated, hazard is that 
of possible cataracts from exposure to 
CRTs, NIOSH undertook yet another evalthe incidents are infrequent, two editors of 
the New York Times recently contracted the 
disease.
The two editors, who worked daily with 
CRTs, both developed cataracts early in 
1977. According to the NIOSH investiga
tion of their claims, the etiology (cause) of 
the cataracts remains undetermined. Yet
IRON CITY REGULAR 
IRON CITY LIGHT 
SCHLITZ 
BUD
SCHMIDTS
SCHMIDTS BOCK DARK 
CHAMPALE - WHITE 
OR PINK 
STROHS 
GENESEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHLITZ
BALLANTINE ALE 
MICHELOB REGULAR 
MICHELOB LIGHT 
PABST
PABST EXTRA LIGHT 
MILLER . * 
MILLER LIGHT 
COLT 45
GENESEE CREAM ALE 
WEIDEMAN
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak Subs
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM - 2 AM
QUARTS MUGS - PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 OIFFERENT ORAFT BEERS 
MILLER. MICHELOB. MOLSON ALE. HEINEKEN.
STROHS ANO SCHLITZ MALT 
One different 16 oz. 6 pk featured each week
SCHLITZ * PABST SCHLITZ MALT * STROHS 
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
* SPECIALTY ITEMS *
FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES-PIZZA SERVED TIL 4 AM 
HOT DOGS - CHOICE OF 12 OIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 
35 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES 
IMPORTS
nriginal
^ HOT 00G
* BtCKS LIGHT OR DARK 
Germany
 CARLSBURG MALT 
Denmark 
' DORT HANSA Germany 
' HOFBRAU Germany 
 FISCHER GOLD France
* HOLSTEN LAGER Germany
* ST PAULI GIRL Germany
* SPATEN Germany
- RIGNES SPECIAL Norway
* SWAN LAGER Australia 
 BASS ALE England
* MAC KESON STOUT 
England
* 10WENBRAU LIGHT OR 
OARK Germany
WHITEBREAO PALE ALE 
England
* PILSNER UROUELL 
Czechoslovakia
* RIGNES Norway
 DOS EQUIS Meiico
* PERONI Italy
* GUINESS STOUT Ireland
* GROLSCHE Holland
* GOSSER Austria
* SAN MIGUcL Pltillpines
* KIRIN Japan
* MOLSON ALE Canada
* KRAKUS Poland
* HEINEKEN LT A OK Holland 
 FOSTER S LAGER Australia
ANO MANY OTHERS
HOT 00G SHOPS. INC. 621-7388 or 621 -1185
3901 FORBES AV. (OAKLAND) PGH., PA. 13*1 3
the initial physician who diagnosed the 
damages, Dr. Zaret, has become a controver
sial opponent of CRTs which in his words 
caused, bilateral incipient radiant-energy 
cataracts.
One final claim, which has met with far 
more universal exceptanoe and support is 
the question of obvious physical disorders 
related to the use of CRTs. These com
plaints include eyestrain, blurred vision, 
dizziness, stress and prolonged anxiety.
In January of 1980, in response to requests 
by a number of unions whos members use 
CRTs, NIOSH undertook yet another eva
luation of the health risks of working with 
display terminals. The study centered on 
two newspapers and a large insurance com
pany in the San Francison area.
This latest NIOSH study, which included 
more than 750 employees, tried to measure 
and calculate the various health complaints 
in these work areas. The groups results con
cluded that there was a higher incidence of
back pain, anxiety, irritability and stress 
among employees using display terminals. 
Much of the blame, according to NIOSH, is 
attributed amply to the height of the screen 
and that the terminal rooms were poorly 
designed.
As a result if its findings, NIOSH has 
published a list of recommendation for the 
immediate environment of the CRTs. 
Among the suggestions are the following:
Dont place terminals adjacent to one 
another
Dont put a terminal next to a window or 
under high-intensity lighting
Add coatings, hoods, and other aids to 
reduce the glare on the screen
Buy movable keyboards and adjustable 
chairs
Upgrade training programs to insure the 
proper use of equipment
The Tartan will continue investigating 
this aspect of university computing 
facilities.
Graduate seats eliminated
continued from page 1
in an ongoing struggle between undergrad
uate and graduate students. Only two weeks 
before, the GSO had solicited approval from 
the Board of Trustees to receive a fixed per
centage (37%) of all graduate students acti
vits fee. Although the Senate approved this 
new policy, there is now some questions as 
to whether the GSO will be required to 
include undergraduates in activities funded 
by the 37% that is earmarked for their 
organization.
In other senate news, the CMU Frisbee 
Club was loaned $660 to purchase 200 fris
bees that will be sold in the spring. Only one 
senator, GSIA representative Bob Carr, 
voted against the loan, apparently con
cerned about the ability of the Frisbee Club 
to pay back the loan. CFA representative 
Bob Hanusek congratulated the Frisbee 
Club for creating their own source of 
revenue instead of simply depending on 
senate for automatic funding.
There are currently two CIT undergradu
ates petitioning for one vacancy, three CIT 
graduated applying for three empty seats 
and three applicants applying for one open
ing for an H&SS undergraduate. As of yet, 
no one has applied for a CFA undergraduate 
position, an H&SS graduate position and an 
AMS undergraduate position. Petitions are 
currently being accepted at the Skibo Infor
mation Desk for a CFA graduate position 
and an MCS undergraduate vacancy.
ncii
A Tradition On The Move!
RCA Picture Tube Division has 
positions available for individuals 
who have or expect to receive a 
PhD or MS degree in the following 
disciplines:
 Physics  Materials Science  inorganic Chemistry
 Physical Chemistry Polymer Chemistry 
 Chemical Engineering
RCA can offer you positions in our 
engineering and development 
group that will stimulate you 
intellectually as well as provide a 
solid foundation for your career 
growth. In addition, we offer a 
generous compensation package 
with excellent fringe benefits.
RCA is a world leader in 
technological innovations and to 
insure our continued success, we 
are seeking talented individuals 
today for development of our 
advances of tomorrow.
We will be on campus February 
12,1981 to talk with individuals 
interested in RCA. To schedule an 
interview, drop your resume by 
the placement office at your 
earliest convenience.
Equal Opportunity Employer
Degreed/Candidates - 
PhD and MS degrees
Campus Interviews February12,1981
MBA
? Financial Analysts
? Personal Trust Managers
? Investment Research Analysts
? Management Science Analysts
? Operations Research Analysts
? Corporate Lending Trainees
? All of the Above
The last answers the correct one at Ameritrust, Ohios larg
est financial institution and one of the largest in the country. 
A member of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal 
Deposit I nsurance Corp., Ameritrust provides a full range of 
banking and trust services to thousands of individual, corpo
rate and governmental customers. Services such as real 
estate and commercial loans, international and lease financ
ing, and corporate and pension trusts. To serve its diversified 
customers and their equally diversified needs even better, 
Ameritrust needs individuals with solid 
credentials and abilities who seek out
standing professional achievement. Indi
viduals like you.
Together with an atmosphere of chal
lenge and mobility and our excellent 
salaries and comprehensive fringe bene
fits, Ameritrusfs location in Northeastern 
Ohio, with its educational, cultural and 
recreational opportunities, lets you grow 
both personally and professionally.
Let us get something going for you. We 
will be recruiting MBAs on campus in the 
near future. For interview appointment, 
sign up at your placement office.
Shierfltast900 Euclid Avenue 
Cleveland, Ohio 44115
A* Eqml Opportunity Eiaplopr M/F
CALL 571-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.__________________________________
Tartan men still undefeated and holding on in PAC
TOTALS28-5464 TOTALS31-59
by Denny Postufka
The CMU basketball team went into 
PAC competition with a four game losing 
streak but now seem unbeatable, sitting on 
top of the conference with an unblemished 
6-0 reccord. The Plaid did well last week as 
they held Washington 8c Jefferson in a close 
game on Wednesday and then dumped 
Hiram last Saturday at the Skibo Gym.
The game against Washington 8c Jeffer
son was the tightest contest CMU has had so 
far this year. The Tartans were down by ten 
with three minutes remaining in the first 
half but were able to fight back to within 
three for a 31-28 score at intermission.
The second half was closely fought to the 
end of the game. With a little less than a 
minute left, Buddy Hobart made two freethrows to put the Tartans up 61-58. How
ever, the three point lead didnt last long as 
W8cJs Dave Damico came down and threw 
in a twenty footer to bring them back to 
within one.
After a time-out, CMU was unable to 
inbound the ball in five seconds, so W8cJ got 
the ball with thirty seconds remaining. The 
Tartans caused a turnover and Buddy 
Hobart was fouled again. Hobart made both 
his free throws to put CMU ahead. Damico 
once again pumped in a long one to bring 
W8cJ within one, with only ten seconds left.
When the Tartans brought the ball in, Joe 
Belechak was fouled and went to the line. 
He hit the first one and then missed the 
second one. Mike Pratt of W8cJ, though, 
took his position on the line after Belechak 
was handed the ball, so Joe got another shot 
and made this one. W8cJ then came down to 
put in a layup but time ran out and the final 
score read 65-64, in CMUs favor.
Carl Mulac was the high scorer of the 
night with a total of 24 points, while shoot
ing 11 for 11 from the field. Other Tartans 
scoring in double figures were Hobart with 
12, and Belechak with 11.
minute mark, when Dave Hofmeister shot 
for a three point play to put CMU back on 
top for good.
Joe Belechak and Danny Donahoe both 
had good outside shooting games. Belechak 
had 19 points, followed by Donahoe with 12 
and Hofmeister with 11 points.
This week the Tartans stay at home Wed
nesday night to host Bethany, which marks 
the halfway point in the PAC campaign. 
Then CMU will travel to Case Western 
Reserve on Saturday.
PAC STANDINGS
CMU601.000
Case Reserve42.667
Bethany42.667
Allegheny33.500
Wash-Jeff33.500
John Carroll-24.333
Hiram24.333
Thiel06.000
CMUFG-FGAFT-FTAPTS
Belechak3-74-410
Donahoe4-120-0 - 8
Hobart3-96-612
Hofmeister4-91-39
Mulac11-112-324
Bennett1-40-02
Miklasevich0-20-00
eNewsp26-5413-1665
Wash 8c JeffFG-FGAFT-FTAPTS
Pratt7-123-417
Damico7-122-216
Westphal4-80-08
Withrow6-110-012
Gideon1-33-35
Fan ell2-50-11
Tupta0-00-00
Ha ma y1-30-02
TOTALS36-67o-cr72
CMUFG-FGAFT-FTAPTS
Mulac11-142-424
Hobart4-111-49
Hofmeister4-10.3-611
Belechak6-157-8 19
Donahoe6-90-012
Bennett0-00-00
lx\vis0-00-00
Carl Mulac goes up for the basket against Washington and Jefferson last Saturday. Mulac 
was high scorer of the day with 24 points.
Tartan teams in action this week_________________________________
Tue. Feb. 3 
Wed. Feb. 4
Fri. Feb. 6 
Sat. Feb. 7
Mon. Feb. 9
SWIMMING
WOMENS BASKETBALL
MENS BASKETBALL
WOMENS BASKETBALL
FENCING
SWIMMING
MENS BASKETBALL
FENCING
CMU vs. 
CMU vs. 
CMU vs. 
CMU vs. 
CMU vs. 
CMU vs. 
CMU vs. 
CMU vs.
Duquesne 
W&J 
Bethany 
Carlow 
Calif. State 
Case Western 
Case Western 
Penn State .
The Tartans winning streak continued 
on Saturday. It was Carl Mulac once again 
who was the key man, scoring 24 points for 
the second game in a row. CMU boasted a 
49-32 halftime lead.
In the second half, the Tartans scored 13 
points within the,first twelve minutes, but 
Hiram fought back to take the lead. The 
lead then seesawed all the way to the one
HiramFG-FGAFT-FTAPTS
Apthorpe13-230-026
Shivers1-70-02
Termini1-20-02
Ellis11-180-022
Revak0-00-00
McCleary3-80-06
Miller3-40-06
Eisaman4-50-08
4:00 p.m. 
6:00 p.m. 
8:00 p.m. 
TBA 
noon 
1:00 p.m. 
2:00 p.m. 
6:00 p.m.
photo by Chu<k (liideM
Buddy Hobart goes to shoot a long drive.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanFebruary 3, 1981
CMU loses 5-3 in hard checking game to Duquesne
I
by Maria Barbuto
Before a supportive crowd at the Civic 
Arena, the CMU Ice Tartans lost to the 
Duquesne Ice Dukes with a score of 5-3 last 
Saturday afternoon. However, the score 
doesnt reveal the excitement of the game.
Thirty-five seconds into the game, CMUs 
Mark Licata broke away from the Dukes 
defense to net the first goal of the game. The 
Dukes soon evened the game though, with a
by Leslie Weiser
Basketball, now into its second week of 
play, heads the list of winter intramural 
sports now underway. Check the IM bul
letin board for playing schedules, officiating 
schedules, and team standings. Please dont 
forget to mark game winners on the score 
sheets. Also note the following correction: 
all games previously scheduled for Wednes
day, February 18, will be played on Tuesday, 
February 17, at the same scheduled time and 
court.
The commissioners for basketball are 
Rocky Cersosimo, phone 578-4613, for the 
Major and Womens Leagues; Wes Seeley, 
phone 687-0843, Major League; Lou Oliver, 
phone 578-4512, Intermediate League; and 
Anthony Jones, phone 578-4694, Minor 
League.
shot that rebounded off goalie Steve Machernis skate. The Tartans held up under the 
barage of shots from the Dukes with some 
really outstanding defense from Tim Carlyn 
and Steve Machemis. The Dukes closed out 
the first period with a goal by Dennis 
Sheran.
The second period opened with both 
teams checking aggressively. Duquesne 
scored a goal which was revoked, but they
Also in season is handball. Please check 
the IM bulletin board for playing schedules. 
Mr. Birdy, phone 578-2214, is the 
commissioner.
Finishing its season is backgammon. All 
games should be completed and results 
turned in to Debbie Cohen, commissioner, 
phone 578-5943.
Last week Theta Xi-B defeated Theta-XiA for the darts championship, thus ending 
that sport. A nice job done by Sheila Dun
ham, commisioner.
The bridge teams are just getting under
way in their competitions. The commis
sioner is Eric Theis, phone 682-9580.
If you want to get in shape, hurry up. 
Weightlifting contests will start February
netted a legitimate one only three minutes 
later. At 7:19 CMUs Andy Andrejko scored 
with a blazing slapshot that put the Tartans 
even with the Dukes. Things got more 
aggressive as a brawl erupted, putting CMU 
short one man, and giving Duquesne an 
opportunity to execute their power play. 
However, once again the Tartans showed 
excellent defense, with particular credit to 
Andy Andrejko. The second period also dis12. Contact commissioner Ken Murawski, 
phone 578-4666, for details.
Team wrestling practice sessions will be 
held Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 
4:30 to 5:30 PM in Thistle Hall in the gym. 
Commissioners are Jeff Luce, phone 683- 
1699, and William Gens, phone 578-4452.
Water basketball practice times and game 
schedules are posted on the IM bulletin 
board. The commissioner is Gary Petrosky, 
phone 578-4005.
Entries are due February 5 by 4:30 PM in 
the following upcoming sports: table tennis 
(singles and doubles), and team call pool. 
Commissioners are also needed for those 
two sports.
The next intramural board meeting will 
be on Thursday, February 5, at 12:30 PM in 
the Intramural Office.
played the talents of Steve Machemis who 
managed to deflect nine of ten Duquesne 
shots.
The third period saw both teams come 
alive with the Dukes scoring again at 8:58 
and CMUs Steve Farrell scoring one min
ute later. Unfortunately, that was the Tar
tans last goal while Duquesne picked up 
one more, a deflected shot off the pole. As the 
final minutes ticked away the atmosphere 
grew tense with several players engaging in 
a fight, which resulted in double penalties 
for both teams and a major penalty for Duke 
player Larry Marks. This removed Marks 
from the remainder of the game. With three 
minutes left in the game, Duquesne was at 
an obvious disadvantage, but the Tartans 
failed to capitalize. At the sound of the final 
buzzer both benches emptied for a minor 
brawl to end this WPICHL division game.
Oartan women 
slaughter Bisons
by Bob Share
The Camegie-Mellon womens basket
ball team cruised to a 78-41 win over 
Bethany last Friday night. The victory 
raised the Tartans record to 2-1 in the Pennwood West Conference.
The game, though, proved costly as jun
ior Cassie Segmiller sprained her ankle dur-1 
ing play and will be out indefinitely. 
Segmiller poured in thirteen points before 
being injured.
The Tartans defense was the key to the 
Bisons slaughter. The women pressed 
Bethany to yield numerous turnovers. Lor
raine Stypula led CMU at the offensive end ! 
of the court with 29 points.
The womens basketball team next sees 
action tomorrow night at Skibo Gym as 
they host undefeated Washington 8c Jefferson. This important match will begin at 
8:00 PM. On Saturday, CMU will travel to 
Case Western Reserve.
Swim team takes 
its first victory
by Randy Condon and Laurie Southom
Carnegie-Mellon swimmers defeated 
Bethany last Wednesday, 64-32, marking 
their first win of the season. The swim team 
now stands 1-1 in the Presidents Athletic 
Conference.
Highlighting the Tartan victory were 
Nick Watts, with first place in both the 1000 
yard freestyle and 200 yard butterfly; and 
Randy Condon, capturing the 200 yard 
freestyle and 200 yard backstroke. Other Tar
tan winners included Jimmy Matusek, in 
the 200 yard IM and 200 yard breaststroke; 
Mike Kochanowski, in the 100 yard freestyle; 
and Paul Harvey, in the 500 yard freestyle.
Harvey was the outstanding swimmer of 
the meet, taking 22 seconds off his best time 
in the 1000 yard freestyle. Laurie Southern, 
Mary' Beth Roach,and Luann Isherwood all 
hit good times in their events. The team 
now goes to Duquesne for a meet today and 
then travels to Case Western Reserve on 
Saturday.
CRITICS ARE UNANIMOUS IN THEIR 
OPINIONS!
of the works of
P.D.Q. BACH
A RUSH! NEW YORK HIGH TIMES 
THE PITS! WOMEN S WEAR WEEKLY 
KINKY! THE VILLAGE VERSE 
DECADENT! PRAVDA 
THESE PEOPLE NEED HELP! 
PSYCHOLOGY JOURNAL
THE INTIMATE P.D.Q. BACH
TUES.,FEB. 10 8 P.M.
Tickets $9, 8, 7 
on sale at
Heinz Hall 8c Kaufmanns.
Student discount available with 
presentation of ID.
with Professor Peter Schickele and the Semi-Pro Musica Antiqua
Featuring Sonata Abassoonata, Goldbrick Variations,
Hansel and Gretel and Ted and Alice (Opera in One Unnatural Act)
and many others!
New intramural sports getting underway
COACHES
Mens Basketball ................ Dave Maloifc?
Womens Basketball.................Gene Klein
Swimming........................ Donna Pecnian
Fencing..........................................Jane
Mens Track............................Gary Meekle?

---------------------------------------------------

February 3, 1981The TartanPage 21
ne letters
ale harem fantasies: Some things arent funny, Mitch
liton
I am extremely offended that you pnnted 
itch Millers A male viewpoint of the 
ees Company life in the January 27 
isue of The Tartan. Such a discussion and 
iffirmation of male harem fantasies, regardess of whether or not the article was 
itended to be a satire (hard to tell given its 
Idolescent silliness), was a real surprise to 
ee in a 1981 college newspaper. I guess I 
cpected better, at least on a surface level, in 
liese liberated times; now I can feel justi|ed in my cynical view of the supposed 
lisappearance of sexism in our political and 
ersonal lives. The Mitch Millers of the colleges, and the Ronald Reagans of the world, 
are lusty proof that male chauvinism and 
the patriarchy are alive and well. . .
I know, I know, feminists have no sense of 
humor. Well, if that is true, chauvinist pigs 
have no brains. I am truly sorry Mr. Miller 
cannot think of a single answer to his ques
tion, Then why was I living with two girls, 
anyway? (if hes not sleeping with them). 
Could it be that those girls are interesting 
human beings?? That they provide stimulat
ing conversation and emotional support? It 
doesnt matter if A male viewpoint... is 
not meant to be serious. Apparendy hum
orous articles can be deadly weapons in
letter of welcome
hton
As residents and homeowners we realize 
lie problems that students face when lookig for apartments in Oakland. Students are 
hen unaware of the many unscrupulous 
indlords who are not interested in the 
&alth or safety of their tenants, but inter
red only in making money. We would like 
idents to know all of us are not the same, 
^e homeowners who do rent to students are 
ced with the same problems. It is the 
[>sentee landlords who have blighted our 
bighborhood with rundown overcrowded 
)using, with unkept grounds and rubbish 
Bid debris littering our streets and side
walks. Interested students might just look 
)und. Oakland was once known as the 
totural center of Pittsburgh, and now its 
lown for its bad housing, bars, discos (sic) 
Id litter.
!We do not consider students as second 
iss citizens. Some of us also rent to stuInts. These students live in our own 
>mes. They have clean rooms, clean beds, 
fd are free to come and go as they please, 
lost of us invite them to have an occasional 
pday dinner with us. In some instances 
they have the use of our living rooms. These 
He the fortunate students who are not being 
1%>ped off by the high rents and dirty living 
quarters offered by others, 
i We would like to take this opportunity to 
(vite all the students in our area to come 
it us at one of our monthly meetings held 
at Peoples (sic) Oakland, 231 Oakland 
menue. We would like to have some input 
r students regarding the parking and housg problems among other issues.
We would like you to join our organizan so we can have the opportunity to hear 
ir (sic) viewpoints on issues we are workon. We want you to be involved so you 
n see for yourself that we are a very open 
d giving people. We are kicking the ball
ARTIST 
ENGINEERING 
DRAFTINGSUPPLIES
355-0444
OPEN SAT. 10 to 5 P.M.
TOP NOTCH
ART MATERIALS. INC
819 PENN AVE ( PGH )
to you, lets see if youll run with it. For more 
information, call Peoples Oakland, 683- 
7958.
John Fagnelli 
Halket Street/Halket Place/Louisa 
and Coltart Street Block Club
terms of the reinforcement of such hoary 
stereotypes as college girls who cant do any
thing else but bitch about their excessive 
weight and talk on the telephone. Mr. 
Millers lament, Its just that when God 
designed females, he gave them extremely 
powerful muscles in their jaws was particu
larly obnoxious to me. From a political and 
sociological standpoint, such statements are 
sad revelations of the average male college 
students view of women. Needless to say, 
the feminist movement is radically opposed 
to such neanderthal expressions of mis
ogyny. And Im tempted to imagine that Mr. 
Miller unluckily flew in from the 1950s 
through a tme machine to write his prepubescent garblings.
On a personal level, I am one of numer
ous two women - one man households, and 
we have never had any need to tell our 
friends we sleep together (in whatever orgi
astic combinations). I suppose we have 
more confidence in our respective sexual 
selves than the many Mitch Millers have in 
theirs. Finally, the editors) of The Tartan
must take most of the responsibility for 
printing offensive material in a college 
/community paper. Reactionary fools will 
always raucously verbalize their malcontent, 
but more sensible folks need not give them a 
voice.
Sincerely, 
Martha Nichols 
Research Associate, 
University of Pittsbuigh
PJS. My housemates and a CMU staff 
member would like to echo my sentiments. 
Edward L. Rubin, Drama Grad. CMU 
Eve Earley, Biology Dept. (CMU) 
Myra Lou Harris CMU 80
Editors note: As the use of the article a 
(rather than the) in the headline implied, 
this was simply one persons viewpoint. 
The intent was not to be offensive, but as the 
accompanying illustration indicated, to be 
humorous.
Maureen Brennan 
Features Editor
This Is what some big companies mean by a career. Not General Electric.
Ii you think you have to give up your individuality to work for a big company, think again.People are important to us at GE.Our many high-technology businesses require people who thrive on the challenge oi working at the forefront of their fields. People who want the freedom to get a job done.Take our Advanced Microelectronics Operations. We re committed to joining the leaders in the industry, and it takes bright young engineers to do that.Right now, we're looking for key people to fill positions at our ultra-sophisticated new $ 100 million GE Microelectronics Center in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, as well as at our other established facilities.Specific openings exist in Integrated Circuit
Design, VLSI Device Structure Design. VLSI Process Development, Integrated Circuit Application Engineering. Integrated System Architecture, and Integrated Circuit Software Design.Technical Recruiters will be on campus Tuesday and Wednesday, February 10-11 to conduct interviews. Contact your campus Placement Office for the exact time/place and to make an appointment. Or. if you want to talk to us right away, call l-(800) 334-8529, or send a resume to GE Microelectronics Center, PO. Box 13049, Research Triangle Park, N.C. 27709.
Advanced Micioelectroiiics Operations General Electric Company
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F

---------------------------------------------------

THEIR EXPERIENCE AND GOALS SPAN THE SPECTRUM. BUT THEYREAT THE CENTER OF THE ACTION NOW.
SO
The Harris Corporation.
A billion dollar leader in 
histicated communication and 
brmation processing equipment 
and systems.
Where these two professionals, 
and more than 23,000 others in over 
three dozen facilities worldwide, 
are contributing their imaginative, 
on-target ideas. Pooling their knowl
edge to innovate and improve 
technologies. Changing the face of 
the communications industry.
If your background is in Electri
cal, Mechanical, Chemical or Indus
trial Engineering, Computer Science, 
Physics or Maththere's a place 
for your mind right here.
Harris Government Systems 
Group designs, produces and markets 
high technology electronic systemsTHE MINDS
and equipmentsuch as a space 
deployable antenna and a Kremlinto-White House hotline (DCL)for 
a variety of industrial and govern
ment markets.
Composition Systems Division 
is a leading manufacturer of mini
computer and microprocessor-based 
systems to automate text editing, 
word processing and photo
typesetting.
If you're unable to schedule a 
campus interview, send your resume 
in confidence to: Harris Govern
ment Systems Group Operations, 
P.O. Box 37, Melbourne, Florida 
32901, or to Composition Systems 
Division, P.O. Box 2080, Melbourne, 
Florida 32901.
INTERVIEW DATE:
MON. & TUES., FEB. 23,24,1981.BEHIND THE PROGRESS
HARRIS
COMMUNICATION AND 
INFORMATION PROCESSING
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/V/H
Software Engineer,
BS in Management Science
"I'm taking advantage of Harris' 100% edu
cational benefits for graduate programs 
going for my Master's in Business 
Administration. I'm where I want to be 
growing with a growing company!'
Electrical/Design 
Engineer, BSEE
"As an engineer, I enjoy the challenge 
of working on different high technology 
projects, and having a choice in the type of 
work I do. As an outdoors person, I enjoy 
the warm climate and the beaches."

---------------------------------------------------

Events.
aJth
iebruary 6 
riday Films
\pocalypse Now, starring Marlon Brando, Mar
ta Sheen and Robert Duvall. This film is $2 
tea use of the expense in bringing it to campus, 
r is the consummate statement about the horror, 
|ie madness, the sensuousness, and the moral 
li lemma that was Vietnam. 6, 9 and 12 in DH 
210. $2 with CMU ID
binary 8
ay Afternoon at the Movies
Abbott and Costello Double Feature: One 
fight in the Tropics; Abbott and Costello go 
the Carribean to protect a nightclub 
/ners million dollar love insurance pol\y. Music by Jerome Kern, Oscar Hammer?in and Dorothy Fields. And, The Time of 
\heir Lives', this unusual fantasy-comedy is 
le of Abbott and Costellos best. Costello 
las mistakenly shot as an accomplice to BeneIct Arnold during the Revolutionary War, 
ifid his ghost returns to haunt the manor that 
jibbott eventually acquires. 2 p.m. in DH 2210
heater
>ugh February 7 
Ronde
tie City Theatre Company, in residence at the 
Iniversity of Pittsburgh, presents the Austrian 
jlaywright Arthur Schnitzers treatment of the 
flationship between the sexes. Everynight 
kcept Monday in the Studio Theatre on the Pitt 
ampus. Reservations can be made by calling 
24-6587
>ugh February 8 
i, Fish, Stas and Vi
leatre Express third production of the 1980-81 
ison is a contemporary drama by Pam Gems 
)ut four women who share a flat in London, 
le play stars three CMU graduate students, 
a current CMU undergrad, Pam Norris, 
lursday through Sunday at 8:30 p.m. at the 
iittsburgh Playhouse Theatre Downstairs. 621- 
3p54 for tickets and information.
:>ugh February 8 
ciila: Sabbat
Iittsburgh Laboratory Theatre continues its sean of plays by Leon Katz. This play focusses on 
lie ritualistic aspect of the Dracula legend. The 
Hiow will feature an original rock score by CMU 
Ausic student Michelle Dibucci. Thursday 
trough Sunday at 8 p m. and Sunday at 2:30 
|.m. at the Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre Cen*r on North Craig. Advanced reservations 
fiould be made by calling 621-1876.
ebruary 5 through 15 
he Rivals
oint Park Theatre Company presents SheriJans classic play featuring the intimidible 
lrs. Malaprop will run for two weeks at the 
Iittsburgh Playhouse in Oakland. Thrusday 
rough Sunday at 8 p.m. Tickets are $4 and 
K- 621-4445 for tickets and information 
ftallery 407, 407 South Craig Street. Gallery 
Jours are Tuesday through Saturday, 10 to 5 
m. and Sunday, 1 to 5 p.m.
Through February 15 
Terra Nova
Pittsburgh Public Theatres third mainstage 
production this season is a new play by con
temporary American playwright Ted Tally. 
The story of the race between a Norwegian 
and an Englishman to be the first to set foot on 
the South Pole. Directed and designed by
February 4
International Poetry Forum 
Diane Ackerman, Assistant Professor of English 
at the University of Pittsburgh, and Judith John
son Sherwin, playwright and novelist will read 
their works. Ackerman has published two books 
of poetry and has recieved the Nadonal Endow
ment for the Arts Creative Writing Fellowship. 
Sherwin is the President Emeritus of the Poetry 
Society of America. Her poetry, fiction and 
drama are feminist and political. 8 PM in Carne
gie Lecture Hall. Student tickets are $2.50. Call 
621-9893.
Hewlett Gallery
In the College of Fine Arts opposite the box 
office. Gallery hours are 10 AM to 4 PM, Monday 
through Saturday, and during Kresge Theatre 
performances.
Through February 19 
Design Department Show
Department head Joseph Ballays 16 foot canoe 
is the featured piece. The boat of fiberglass skins 
over a cedar core boast an original hull design 
Adjunct professor Tim Cunningham will show 
a wooden rocking ram for children. The entire 
design faculty will be represented by recent 
works.
film
SDC Film Series
February 7
Catch-22, starring Alan Arkin, Martin Bal
sam and Art Garfunkel in the screen adapta
tion qf Joesph Hellers first successful novel. 
6, 8,10 and 12 in DH2210. $.50 with CMU ID
Carnegie Institute Film Series
February 3
Director series: George Kuchar 
Three short films: Pagan Rhapsody, Portrait 
of Romona and The Sunshine Sisters. Film 
Forum calls The Sunhine Sister hilarious, 
ludicous and inconguous-a love comic book 
of doomed women and handsome, nefarious 
young men caught in a web of dramatic 
cliches pushed ad absurdam.
art
Forbes Street Gallery
In the Woodlawn Apartments at Forbesand Mar
garet Morrison. Openings are Tuesday 7 to 10 
Other Gallery hours are Wednesday through 
Sunday, 12:30 to 5 PM and Wednesday and 
Thursday evenings, 7 to 9 PM. 578-2081.
February 3 through 8
Skip Kirk, Karin De Kam-Fort, Leeann Conley 
and Bari Harmon: Fiasco Two-Step An artdesign exhibit.
Ellis Gallery
In The College of Fine Arts. Gallery Hours are 
Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Through February 6 Tim Mann 
February 9 through 13 - Leslie Nieman
the DANCE GALLERY
Janet Gillespie-Director
Day and evening classes 
Ballet and Modem Dance
420 N. Craig Si. 
Pgh. Pa. 682-3179
Fast Instant Cash
for your class rings and Jewelry bring this ad in and receive an extra $5!!!
Ring Exchange 115 Murray Ave. 
Oakland 687-4320
/Etnas recruiting (myour campus
Etna Life & Casualty has a continual 
need for good people. Ambitious people. 
People heavy with potential. People we can 
train for rewarding careers
In finance, engineering, business 
administration, data processing, actuarial 
science, accounting, underwriting and 
communications.
Discover how ./Etna Life & Casualty can 
be the catalyst that ignites your growth 
potential.
Stop by and talk with our campus 
recruiter February 16,1981. Contact 
your Career Placement Office now for an 
appointment.
An equal opportunity 
employer.
LIFE & CASUALTY

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
classified
Want it done right? Typing, editing, profession
ally prepared by a Ph.D graduate. Reports, 
manuscripts, theses, dissertations. Prompt, effi
cient, reasonable. IBM executive. Susan, 963- 
7558. Call after 4 p.m.
Typing experienced, freelance secretary, will 
type at home, resumes, thesis, correspondence, 
tables, etc. own IBM Selectric II. 521-7888.
CASH: WANTED, 10,000 Wrecks and 
Junkers 23 hrs., 422-9968
Learn to Dance: Six weeks. Classes only $18. 
Touch Dances, Free Styles. Selections: Ballroom 
and Latin, Country and Western, Rock, Disco. 
Holiday House 241-2162.
Tai Chi Chuan Class: Instructions in soft Chi
nese Martial Arts for health and self-defense. 
Beginners class starts February 4, ever Wed., 5:30 
to 6:30 PM at Salvation Army, Shady Avenue. 
Call 488-6016 evenings for information.
Female graduate student or professional wanted 
to share 2-Bedroom furnished apartment. Own 
bedroom and bath; AC, dishwasher, security, on 
bus line, swimming pool. Prefer non-smoker 
$258, util inc. Call 642-2975.
official
President Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 and 5 p.m., in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Tuesday, February 24. 
Students who wish to meet with the president 
should telephone his office, 578-2200, to set up an 
appointment.
John Crecine, Dean of H&SS holds open office 
hours Tuesday, 1:30 to 3:30 p.m.
The Students Dormitory Council meets Wednes
day night at 7 oclock in the Wherrett Room in 
Skibo. Everyone is encouraged to attend and 
participate.
The Office erf Residence Life has announced that 
the Resident Assistant Selection process has 
begun with three interest sessions, the last to take 
place on Sunday, February 8, at 2 p.m. in Skibo 
Room 45. If you wish to be a Resident Assistant 
and have not attended one of these interest ses
sions you must attend Sunday.
The interest sessions will deal with the actual 
process of selection and how it works, along with 
discussion on the role of the R.A., his duties and 
responsibilities,and an informal discussion with 
current R.A.s on how they see their jobs. Appli
cation packets will also be handed out at this 
time. .
Student Senate Secretary needed. Must be work 
study. 6-8 hours per week. $4/hour. Please call 
Nina x5987 or leave name and phone number in 
the Senate Chairmans mailbox behind the Skibo 
Information Desk.
The Student Senate has a vacancy for an MCS 
undergraduate. Petitions are available at Skibo
A Philip Pelusi Haircut 
for $6.00!!
Register for hair cutting classes. 
Call 261-6550 or stop by our 
salon in 
Squirrel Hill, The Bank Center
Pregnant? 
And you didnt mean to be? 
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help call
Birthright 621-1988
Information desk. Petitions should be turned in 
to the Rules CommitteeJbox at the Information 
desk by Friday, February' 13. Applicants will be 
reviewed at the Senate Meeting on February 17.
club
Join us at AIESEC (an international business 
organization) weekly meetings Wednesdays at 
4:30 in Skibo Rrri. 11. All majors welcome.
Camegie-Mellons Public Speaking Club will be 
meeting at 6 PM in rm. 12 Skibo. All interested 
students are urged to attend. For information call 
x4410 evenings and x3842 days.
The Carnegie Tech Amateur Radio Club will be 
holding its first meeting of the semester today at 
7:30 PM in HH 401. This meeting will be very 
important, so past and present members, piersons 
who are licensed operators, and any person with 
any interest in HAM RADIO are urged to attend. 
If you are interested in attending but cannot 
make it, please call 687-3690.
The CMU Explorer Clubs winter activities
include ski packing, winter camping, ice climb
ing, day trips and more. A brief meeting is held 
every Thursday at 6:30 in room 11, Skibo. People 
of all levels of experience are welcome. Funded 
by Student Senate.
Dance Workshop by Scotch N Soda Nov. 8. 
Time and place (MM Studio) TBA.
Spring Carnival!! There will be a mandatory 
meeting of all booth chairmen on Monday, Feb. 
9,1981, to discuss Midway contracts and coverage 
in Skibo, room 11.
The Law Club will meet at 8 PM in Skibo 45. 
Speaker will be Anthony Pacadio a partner in the 
law firm Tucker, Arensberg, Very and Ferguson. 
All are welcome.
The CMU student branch of the I-EEE (Institute 
of Electrical and Electronic Engineers) is holding 
a seminar dealing with; the opjx>rtunities availa
ble for engineers in the areas of management. 
This includes R and D managers, production, 
marketing and engineering management. The 
seminare will be held in Scaife 125 Tuesday, 
February 3, (tonight) at 7:30 PM.
To all Electrical Engineering Majors: Student 
Branch elections for 1981 will be held at this 
meeting.
special _____
Writers and Artists: Oakland Review, campus 
literary magazine, is seeking submissions of poe
try, short fiction, black and white artwork, and 
one-act plays for the 1981 issue. Submissions can 
be placed in the OR mailbox at the Skibo Infor
mation Desk. Deadline is February 27.
The European Studies Committee announces 
prize of $250 for the best essay in the area, 
European studies written by a CMU student; 
academic year 1980-81. Essays will be consider! 
on any aspect of European society and cuhutt 
architecture, business, history, literature, forej 
affairs and so on.
Essays should be submitted by April 1, to Peter' 
Steams (History). Essays of any length * 
exceeding 50 typescript pages can be consider
Exploration of the Solar System with Spacecrj 
Professor Richard Teske, University of Mid] 
gan. Monday, February 9 at 8:00 PM in Dohei 
Hall 2210. Illustrated with slides and a moi 
showing Jupiters rotation. Sponsored by: T| 
American Astronomical Society, Sigma \ 
Carnegie-Mellon Chapter, and the CMU Astra 
omy Club. Everyone is welcome. A Harlow Si 
pley visiting lecture.
Professional and Administrative Career Exat 
nation (PACE) materials are now available inti 
Office of Career Services and Placement. Tl 
examiniation gives you the opportunity to i  - 
pete for a wide variety of entry level jobs in Fa 
era! Government agencies. Jobs filled throut 
this examination are trainee positions leading 
advancement to higher-level professional adr 
nistrative jobs.
Applications are due on February 13 and can 
picked up in Room 19 Warner Hall in theQ 
office. Testing period is March 7 to May 2.
SNEAK PREVIEW
February 6 & 9
StarringAn Intel Recruiting Team
"ALL ABOUT INTEL
Twice during the last decade, technological innovations at Intel Corporation have revolutionized the world of microelectronicsfirst with the semiconductor memory, then with the microprocessor computer-on-a-chip.Our business is built on this ability to introduce new technologies and products. To this end, we've been responsible for more than a dozen highly innovative products that are now industry standards, and at least seven major semiconductor fabrication processes.Today, we are the indisputable leader in four significant product areas: semiconductor memory, memory systems, microcomputer components, and microcomputer systems. And from sales of just $4 million in 1970, we've grown to over $660 million in revenues in 1979.How did we do this in such a short period of time? With a lot of bright, dynamic, and innovative people at every levelfrom managemerit to staff support.Wed like you to be in on the excitement and the challenge. At any of our five Intel locations: Santa Clara, California; Portland, Oregon; Phoenix, Arizona; Austin, Texas; and Albuquerque, New Mexico.
Sign Up for Campus Interviews.Our recruiting team will be on campus soon to give you a preview about careers at Intel.
If youre about to receive a degree in the following disciplinesElectrical Engineering, Computer Science, Solid State Physics, Chemical Engineering, Materials Science, Accounting, Finance, Operations Management, Business, Economics, Production Management, Industrial Relations, or other related fieldssign up now ir. your placement office to talk with one of our representatives on campus.Or send your resume to Intel College Relations at one of our locations in the area of your geographic preference.
CALIFORNIA: 3065 Bowers Avenue, 
Santa Clara, CA 9505L
OREGON: 5200 N.E. Elam Young 
Parkway, Hillsboro, OR 97123.
ARIZONA/TEXAS/NEW MEXICO: 
6401W. WilUams Field Road,
Chandler, AZ 85224.
An equal opportunity employer m/f/h.
I

---------------------------------------------------

olume II

---------------------------------------------------

DOSSIER
DOSSIER is dedicating this issues cover to the wonderful holiday 
whic h is coming up. Although we cant send you roses or stuffed animals, 
we hope that with our material wre can make your heart pound, flutter, 
sigh, or skip a beat as well as a friend could do on Valentines Day.
With this first issue of the year, wed like once again to make our plea for 
help. DOSSIER has been trying to expand its range of appeal, but we need 
your talent, suggestions, and knowledge. The quality and frequency of 
this magazine depend on you. We need your input.
Remember also that DOSSIER is now seeking to expand its science, 
coverage. Specific article ideas from students and faculty, especially con
cerning science and technology at CMU, will be greatly appreciated.
DOSSIER urges you to participate in what we feel is a tremendous 
outlet for your talents. Please stop by our office in The Tartan and let us in 
on your ideas. W7ed like the opportunity to enhance DOSSIER, and that 
will only be accomplished if you get involved.
The DOSSIER staff wishes everyone a terrific semester and a February' 
14th full of valentines.
Dossier Staff
Editor: Lynn Epstein
Art Directors: Peter Cowell, Jane Novorro
Art Staff: Mark Beard, Peter Cowell, Bruce Meader, Elisabetta Torossi 
Cover Design: A Quark by Peter Cowell
Harlow Shapley Visiting Lecture
Exploration of the Solar System 
With Spacecraft
Professor Richard Teske
University of Michigan
Monday February 9, 8:00 p.m. 
Doherty Hall 2210 
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY
Illustrated with slides and a movie 
showing Jupiters rotation
sponsored by
The American Astronomical Society 
Sigma Xi, Carnegie-Mellon University Chapter 
, CMU Astronomy Club
Professor Teske will be available to discuss Astronomy related 
matters Tuesday morning in the Physics Lounge, Science Hall 6325
In This Issue
Make Room for Fossils 3
In this months editorial, Lynn Epstein discusses the alienation which 
results not only from the strife between the separate colleges but also 
from the advance of technology itself.
The Lost Weekend of Beaux Arts 4
This coming February 28th, another Beaux Arts wdll be celebrated by 
Fine Arts students. Richard Gorelick takes a look into the past at the 
romping festivities of former Beaux Arts Balls at CMU.
Energy 5
Joe Ihnat informs us of some new and unusual energy sources, along 
with a discussion of the research and development of several 
fuel-saving devices and methods.
True Merit Wherever Found 6
Paul Fisher reveals some fascinating and entertaining truths about 
CMUs frat, ATO. Written in the New Non-Fiction style, this article 
combines journalism and fiction techniques to create the effect of 
subjective journalism.
Rich Enos 8
Maureen Brennan presents an enthusiastic, intelligent, and personable 
individual in her interview' with the English Departments Rich Enos, 
a dedicated rhetorician and professor.
Glenda, at the Laundry, Falls in Love 9
This poem is one in series of Glenda poems written by junior 
writing major Dena Santoro. Entertaining and understated, Denas 
Glenda  poems show the day to day life and thoughts of a unique 
and easily empathetic character.
Hospitality House 10
In this short story, Carolyn Toth describes an encounter between two 
different ways of life when three young adults have the unusual 
experience of meeting an old and lonely mountain woman.
Sheepfarming in America 12
MUSICIANS 
PERFORMERS _____
Registration 12:30-3:30 Auditions begin at 1:00
Morgantown, WV Wed., Feb. 11 
WEST VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY 
Creative Arts Center - Concert Theatre
Pittsburgh, PA Thurs., Feb. 12 
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY 
Skibo Student Union - Rms. 11 & 12
Akron, OH Fri., Feb. 13 
UNIVERSITY OF AKRON 
E. J. Thomas Performing Arts Hall
Oberlin, OH Tues., Feb. 17 ~OBERLIN COLLEGE 
Wilder Hall - Main Lounge
Also at Cedar Point Jan. 31 & Feb. 14
TECHNICIANS
Please send resumes by Feb. 1
For other audition 
sites and further information contact:
LIVE SHOWS
Cedar Point, Sandusky, OH 44870 (419) 626 0830
CEEAR POINT
Creativity and its applications are age-old enigmas, but Gay Giordano 
presents a very animated dialogue to argue that even sheepherding is 
art.

---------------------------------------------------

One of the most popular words of the 80s so 
far has been alienation. If you have ever felt 
like bashing in the face of a vending machine 
because it has stolen your money, if you have 
ever wanted to send a hammer crashing into 
the Mellon Banking Machine because once 
again it is out of order, if you have ever felt so 
intimidated and frustrated at a computer ter
minal that you wished a bomb were handy to 
blow it to shreds, then you have experienced 
alienation.
Doubtless, students at CMU are not the only 
ones to experience these feelings, but somehow 
alienation and its effects are more pronounced 
at CMU than in the outside world or at most 
other universities. Students are not only alie
nated from the university and its separate col
leges, but also from each other. The reasons for 
this exaggerated alienation are too many and 
too complicated to discuss fully. It is some
thing which most students sense the moment 
they set foot on campus. It is part of what 
causes people to say that CMU is a unique 
experience, not a normal college experience. It 
is also what causes or stems from the apparent 
apathy, selfishness, hostility, and short
sightedness of many students.
Although the deeper roots of alienation are 
too far back to retrace, the most obvious insti
gator of this trend at CMU is technology and 
its engineers. The hostility which exists 
between the humanities/arts group and the 
engineering group is an important sign of
what could develop with equal intensity in the 
outside world. The strife involves a vital ques
tioning of whether or not humanities/arts are 
still valid studies, or if it is time to lay these 
fossils to rest. The engineers argument that 
the humanities/arts no longer serve as a func
tion in society, or even that the function is 
undeniably less important than the propaga
tion of technology causes not only alienation 
but also defensiveness and hostiliity on the 
part of the humanities/arts group.
Although many students in H&SS and Fine 
Arts resent the superior treatment and attitude 
of CIT and Robotics, they do not realize the 
real need to vehemently question technology, 
as technology is already questioning the valid
ity of th humanities and the arts. It is time to 
think about whether or not technology can 
improve the quality of lives in all areas, or if its 
use should be restricted to improving certain 
areas only. Since this questioning is tradition
ally the job of the humanities and arts disci
plines, and because the outcome of 
technological advances directly affects these 
disciplines, we should begin to discern the pros 
and cons of the technological trend and 
whether or not this trend will actually result in 
what is best for our society. Although these 
judgments are based on constantly changing 
values, few people would argue that a good 
goal to aim for is happiness and freedom. The 
question to be answered is whether or not tech
nology can fulfill these goals.
We cm already see that some results of tech
nology are undesirable. The alienation and 
frustration which pervades the atmosphere at 
CMU cannot be thought to improve the qual
ity of our lives; if any tiling, this aspect of tech
nology is a negative one. The trouble is that 
the humanities and arts are not questioning; or 
if they are, it is not loud enough. Fear of 
change is not the problem; something should 
not be preserved just for traditions sake. Con
trol is the problem, and it is a matter of who 
has control of technology, so that it produces 
in the best interests of our society.
As it stands now, technology is in the hands 
of big business, the government, and techno 
crats. These groups are all motivated by either 
profit or something nebulous called pro
gress. We are in the midst of a trend whose 
theme is technology for technology s sake.
Sitting back and letting the tide of technol
ogy' rush is not only a passive position, but a 
potentially harmful one. It is the responsibility 
of the humanities to get involved in the direc
tion of technologys progress.
Lynn Epstein
Authors note: As you have probably noticed, 
this argument is distinctly one-sided. DOSS
IER would love to hear from the opponents, as 
well as supporters, of this view.

---------------------------------------------------

4
THE LOST WEEKEND 
OF 
BEAUX ARTS
by Richard Gorelick
One of the more ironically familiar 
disturbing scenes of modern America 
is the mass-murderers neighbor swear
ing into a television camera that the 
man who put a family of sixteen 
through a Cuisinart was one of the 
quietist, most polite men youd ever 
wanta meet. He is our cultures proto
type of the man forced into submission 
by a confusing society, whos seething 
with rage and approaching the brink, 
explodes in a frenzy of uncontrollable 
mania; a mania reminiscent of the 
Beaux Arts Ball.
On Beaux Arts Ball Night, men and 
women, students of the College of Fine 
Arts array themselves in outlandish, gar
ish costumes that have been in prepara
tion for weeks; they dance with wild 
abandon with stangers, casual friends 
and those of their own gender: they 
indulge themselves in monstrous pro
portions of drugs and alcohol for which 
they have sacrificed lifes basic animal 
comforts to afford and they engage in 
indifferent, nameless sex with others 
who are in their condition.
The analogy, however, ends here, 
because on the day after the ball, no 
arusts neighbors will swear that they 
were some of the quietest, most polite 
people youd ever wanta meet.
On every Friday Night, men and 
women students of the College of Fine 
Arts array themselves in outlandish, gar
ish costumes that have been in prepara
tion for weeks; they dance with wild 
abandon with strangers, casual friends 
and those of their own gender; they 
indulge themselves in monstrous proportions of drugs and alcohol for which 
they have sacrificed lifes basic animal 
comforts to afford and they engage in 
indifferent, nameless sex with others 
who are in their own condition.
Beaux Arts Ball merely makes the 
whole business publishable.
And it has been that way for 66 years, 
since the first Beaux Arts Ball in 1915. 
There was a Roman theme that night, 
the original toga party. The ball was 
introduced to Carnegie Tech by Henry 
Hombostel, architect of university 
buildings and member of the first 
faculty. It caught on.
In 1916, The College of Fine Arts was 
transformed into the Court of Charlamagne; 1920 was the Peacock Ball and 
1925 was One Arabian Night. Beaux 
Arts Ball continued almost annually 
until 1939, when the event was shelved 
until genuine interest reappeared, or 
until Uncle Sams boys came sailing 
home from the tom battlefields of
Europe and the bloody seas of the 
Orient, whichever came first.
And then, one of those very special 
years rolled over on the calendar -1946. 
Movie-goers were going to movies like 
The Bells of St. Marys with Ingrid Berg
man and The Lost Weekend with Ray 
Milland in the Forties version of a bad 
acid trip. It was a time of post-war recon
version: (tenants) were moving out of 
frat houses to make room for the return
ing vets, who were not only out of the 
academic swing, but alien to new social 
customs as well.
The fruits and vegetables controv
ersy of that year, the letter to the editor 
that excited more opinion, positive and 
negadve, than any other, was from two 
veterans, James Marr, an infantry vete
ran of the European campaign and Vin
cent J. Catullo, an air force veteran. 
Marr writes:
It is disgusting to return and be con
fronted with the present style of dress of 
the college co-ed. One of the favorite 
styles seems to be the wearing of a pair of 
tom grease-spattered, paint smeared 
jeans and a cut-off mens shirt in the 
same condition. Most of these clothes 
are in such poor condition that even a 
self respecting laborer wouldnt be seen 
in them.
Catullo has a different peeve:
As a veteran of this war I have seen 
many things, some strange, some cur
ious and some revolting. But one sight 
that seems to combine all three of these 
phases is the cigarette-smoking girls 
that one encounters everywhere... They 
are truly a strange sight and a revolting 
one at that.
A fellow who has seen the war at first 
hand isnt easily impressed by an imma
ture girl trying to be mannish.
Lest you are led to believe that 1946 
occured sometime in the Middle Ages, 
examine these responses.
From Sheila Berger:
Let us look at the woman as a 
human being-she is one you know. 
The sole purpose of a female human 
being is not to serve as a setting for the 
male human being. . . Men have other 
ambitions, desires, and purposes in life. 
Why do men refuse to see that women 
do too? Were working hard; weve 
become more interested in living wisely 
and better able to do than our unemancipated sisters.
From A Tech Coed:
To begin with, Carnegie Tech is, 
fortunately, or unfortunately divided 
into four partswith too little commun
ication between the divisions. Misun
derstandings are rampant, one of the 
most common being. . . the bewilder
ment concerning the shirt-and-denim 
uniforms of the Art School Coed. 
Spring Carnival and Scotch and Soda 
returned in 1946 as did (ta dah) Beaux 
46 inscribed as a message. Ticket sales 
started slowly due to the out-of-thisworld cost ($3.50), but slowly caught 
on until it evolved into what was to 
become Carnegie-Mellons most public
ized event of all time.
Prizes were awarded for the best cos
tume. The judges were Dean Yon, Dean 
Warden, Director Johnstone, Maurice 
Spitalny (the bandleader) and Jessie the 
janitor. First prize was awarded to the 
Junior Illustrators for their representa
tion of a surrealistic caterpillar. Leading 
the caterpillar on a string was Mr. Readio, head of the department. Head bug 
was Mary Lou Snedden. The prize was a 
ceramic vase by Virgil Candni.
Second prize went to Irene Waichler 
and Margie Schroeder for representing a 
split personality or double life or 
whatever.
A mural depicting two huge heads 
covered the whole left wall of the room. 
Outside on the steps sat a lady taking a 
bath midst egg shells painted like eye
balls (Edith?)
Some of the people came as the mak
ings of a Lost Weekend. One girl was a 
huge sloe gin fizz. Unfortunately the fizz 
was made of cellophane.
Yepper, 1946. Hubba-Hubba.
1979 was the next very special year to 
roll around on the calendar. It had been 
over ten years since the last Beaux Arts
Ball. While 1946 was a year for celebra
tion and an attempt to return to a past 
time of glory, 1979 was a time of 
National Malaise and everybody was 
aching to return to any time that was 
more lively than the one they were 
enduring.
The theme for Beaux Arts 1979 was 
Black and White, which all but a few 
people took absolutely literally. There is 
still a small faction on campus that 
insists that Black and White implied 
contrasts or opposites and not merely 
colors. One group of students came to 
the ball dressed as a complete chess set 
and someone else arrived in a box of 
generic macaroni and cheese.
There was a stunning black and 
white Carmen Miranda and an art stu
dent, clad only in a diaper, who crawled 
on the floor of the College of Fine Arts 
the entire evening. An English student 
posed as an umbrella.
Hundreds of black and white ballons 
crowded the ceiling of the College of 
Fine Arts and masqueraders danced in 
the outcoves where the statues normally 
reside. It was the night of the living 
dead. The last lost weekend of the 
Seventies.
This years ball chairmen hope that 
the euphoria of the 1979 Ball will carry 
over into Le Bal Fanfasie. Already, plans 
are being finalized to transform The 
College of Fine Arts into a world of 
complete fantasy. Tickets are now $15, 
which to the person writing the Beaux 
Arts article in 1994, will seem a tiny sum 
indeed.
Maybe you will be the Phantom of the 
Ball.
?

---------------------------------------------------

by Joe Ihnat
Unless you have been in a coma for the last seven years, you know that this country (and most of the world, for that matter) is in the throes of an "energy crisis". While there is some debate as to the seriousness of this "crisis," it is generally agreed that there is, to some extent, an energy shortage.Now that people are beginning to realize that there exists a problem which will affect them personally, the more creative among us are beginning to devise some ingenious methods for relieving this problem. The newspapers and new magazines have been brimming with such ideas over the past months; much research is being done to try to find solutions to this complex problem.Much of this research has been directed towards the area of synthetic fuels, or synfuels. A $20 billion federal program was enacted this past June to help speed production of synthetic crude oil from coal, shale oil and tar sands. A pilot plant which converts coal into a synthetic fuel has been in operation in Texas for nearly a year. More emphasis is being placed on coal, as well as oil shale and tar sands, as a means of lessening this country's dependence on foreign petroleum.Another field of which has received much attention as of late is that of fusion research. Last September, Congress appropriated $20 billion for use in magnetic-fusion research. This shows that the government is committed
to developing a commercial fusion power reactor. Fusion energy looks promising because it derives its fuel from water, and we certainly have an abundant supply of that. Another advantage of fusion power is that water is virtually the only waste product produced during the reaction. Regarding radiation, it is relatively safe.Dangers of radiation have given nuclear fission reactors a bad image, a la Three Mile Island (TMI). The accident at TMI, which happened nearly two years ago, has made nuclear power the object of a heated debate. Although nuclear power plants have been operating safely for many years, this one accident will take many years and billions of dollars to correct. Who is to shoulder the financial responsibilities of this accident is still being decided in the courts.While pointing out the potential risks of nuclear power, more attention is being given to solar power. Advocates tout solar energy as an inexhaustible energy resource, with virtually no dangers since the source is conveniently placed 150 million kilometers away.One area of solar energy which is making steady progress is that of photovoltaics (or "solar cells"). These solar cells directly convert sunlight into electricity. While not yet cost- effective with other forms of electric power generation, their costs are nonetheless decreasing; certain cells have achieved an efficiency of 10 percent this past year. As their efficiency increases, the cost of generating power from photovoltaic cells will decrease.Gasohol is another energy item which has been in the headlines lately. Gasohol is a mixture of 90% gasoline and 10% ethyl alcohol (ethanol). By adding ethanol to gasoline, it will help to stretch our supply of gas. Ethanol may also be used alone as a fuel. Research is being done to modify engines to burn straight ethanol, since it burns differently than gasoline.The generation of ethanol has received much attention. Ethanol is fermented from materials such as sugar cane, corn and sugar beets. Enzymes (yeast), which turn the sugars In these materials into alcohol, are added. The ethanol is then distilled out. Certain enzymes are more efficient than others; enzymes which are very effective at this job were recently found to exist in the hot springs of Yellowstone National Park.In the search for alternative energy sources, it almost seems as if no stone has remained unturned. There have been some fairly unusual sources discovered lately. In Brazil, there is a certain tree whose sap is pure diesel fuel. This sap, directly out of the tree, will power a car. Another relatively unusual source is cattails, that well-known marsh plant. They have been found to have similar combustion properties as coal. They can also be fermented to produce ethanol.No single energy source mentioned to date is considered to be a panacea. Although each has its merits, each also has its drawbacks. Coal is abundant, but methods will have to be discovered to make it more clean-burning. Nuclear fusion sounds promising, but it is considered to be 20 years away from commercial reality. Nuclear fission is being used throughout the world, but certain segments of society are beginning to question fts safety, as well as the problem of the dangerous waste products it produces. Solar energy will have to become more cost competitive to become a viable energy resource. With gasohol, there is a question of whether we should use our croplands to produce food or fuel.Even though no single energy source will relieve our troubles, each must be wisely developed to its fullest potential so that we may have many diversified sources at our disposal, and we are not dependent upon one main source, as we are now with petroleum. Yes, that even includes developing cattails and diesel trees.

---------------------------------------------------

6
@i
1
True Merit Wherever Found
by Paul Fisher. 
Authurs note; The names of two brothers have been changed: Bud Stone and Robert OMalley
In the far stall of the mens room oil the second floor of 
Hunt Library, a nameless senior in an impromptu last will 
and testament scrawled on the left wall, (sitting position) 
To CMli Fraternities: I leave a brick wall to help you with 
your real problem: Insecurity.* On the opposite wall an un
known pollster listed his preference of eleven of CarngieMellon Universitys twelve national fraternities: Pika, SAE, 
ATO, Beta, Kappa Sigma, Phi Kap, ZBT, DTD, Sigma Nu, 
Theta Xi, and Pi Lam. The accompanying comment with ar
row pointed to the list declared, "This is exactly the listing 
the top shits in a cesspool. Despite such glowing references, 
the unanimously red-bricked CMU fraternities did very well 
in the 1980 Fall rush according to the October 14 Tartan.
GREEKS GAIN 280 PLEDGES 
This year the Greeks at CMU enjoyed 
one of their most successful rush periods 
ever, gaining a total of 280 
u ndergrad uates.
Friday night was fraternity' pledge 
night and 233 men joined one of the 
twelve national fraternities on campus.
DU and ZBT led with 30 pledges each 
Beta and Kappa Sig tied with 28, fol
lowed by Theta Xis22. Pika, D TD, and 
Phi Kap were close behind with 19, 18, 
and 17 pledges respectively. SAE ranked 
ninth with 13 new members, trailed by 
Sigma Nu with 12. ATO and Pi Lam 
followed with eight members each.
The eight pledges garnered by Alpha Tau Omega 
were probably at least vaguely aware of the name they 
had staked their Carnegie-Mellon social life behind. 
During rush they had met brothers who half kept in 
mind Treasurer Brian Renners active meeting plea of, 
CTmon, lets not be assholes, as well as maintaining 
the keen wit and rigidly reserved madness they valued so 
highly.
Pledges are essential to perpetuating achapters exist
ence, and at ATO more pledges mean less worksessions 
for the brothers as well as more money for parties. It is 
these uncontestable facts that move many of the ATOs 
to temper their behavior for four weeks. Good natured 
quips often replace searing mother jokes. The changes 
are subtle, as the brothers detest overwhelmingfreshmen 
with barrages of sweet talk or ass kissing. No, SAE and 
Beta are considered the undisputed champions of that. 
Plastic images are worse than any image conjured up by 
a gossip-hungry campus, and a common line snarled to 
someone acting that way is "You shoulda joined up the 
street.
On Friday, October 10, Kenny McCall, who is twentyone, co-social chairman, and the only black brother, 
made a run up to the Squirrel Hill State Store with 
Rusty Kennington and John Kenny in Johns yellow 
Toyota.
Drunk, Kenny can be mean and crazy. He once 
greeted a newly arrived high school sleeping bagger by 
throwing his luggage at him, shouting that the school
bag afire on the porch wall. Sober, he is a picture of 
joviality and appears almost shy. Right outside the 
liquor store a young man of about twenty, with greasy 
matted hair, clothes to match and meek as could be, 
asked Kenny if he would buy him a fifth of gin. "Ah, 
...ah...see I have to buy an awful lot...I dont know he 
muttered and walked into the store.
"Yes, Id like three half gallons of Bankers Club.
"Have any ID? the man asked.
"Ah, yes I do. Kenny brought his dog-eared wallet 
out like a battered deck of cards. "Heres my Ohio 
drivers license and school ID.
As the man walked back through the distilled cata
combs looking for Bankers Club, Kenny took note of 
Rustys request for rum and mine for Jim Beam. When 
the man returned, Kenny asked for our stuff and paid the 
man with the dollar bills we were shoveling at him.
Bankers Club, or Monogram whiskey, is the only 
whiskey bought for pledge and initiation nights. 
Bankers Club, costing $10.31 a half gallon, is pot only 
economical but more importantly, is "rotgut. Save the 
Seagrams for the formals; on nights like these, the diges
tive disruption potential is of paramount importance. 
The more pledges vomiting, the better.
Speculation ran high back at the house concerning 
how many freshmen would actually pledge. No one 
would know until seven oclock when all pledges were 
to be at the house. One of the brothers who rushed the 
hardest, President Perry Colosimo-, had no idea himself. 
"We could get anywhere from ten to thirty. I really have 
no idea. I talked to a lot of the guys who everyone said 
was set on Beta. I talked to every oneofthem,and whenl 
was done, I saw a lot of doubting looks. I also told them  
even if they pledged somewhere else, to come and tell me 
about it as a friend, and I think they will.
By late afternoon, all the brothers who were around 
and who didnt have to play football the next day were 
drinking heavily. Details and memory become a bit 
blurred at this point. Here and there, a pledge would 
show up and be greeted with a handshake, slap on the 
back, or cup of beer. Some brothers lounged around the 
TV, others were downstairs drinking, and a few worked 
in their rooms. It almost seemed too laid back. The 
house was fragmented and becoming increasingly disor
iented as the beer kept flowing. The magic moment, a 
ham buffet at seven, was eaten by everyone present 
anywhere from five-thirty to eight. By seven though, 
eight pledges were present, and the brothers did their 
best to conceal their disappointment in front of them. 
Word about Beta was they had gotten thirty. One silver 
lining was that of the eight, all were liked and consi
dered good guys, so the theme slowly reverted to "qual
ity not quantity.
This was especially true during the barside chugging 
ceremony. Every pledge was twice encircled by his 
brethren-to-be and fellow pledges screaming "Rah! 
Rah! Rega, Alpha Tau Omega! Hip Hurrah! Hip Hur
rah! Three Cheers for Alpha Tau! A...T...O! Most of 
the twenty or so brothers present did shots too, then the 
evening was officially capped off by John Kenny lead
ing the pledges to the basements of the other fraternities 
(as well as the sororities) to shout the chant and refill the 
beers.
Pledge night, totally devoid thus far of the spectacular 
occurence, of the euphoria of a successful rush,and of 
pledge vomit, was depressing if not boring. Going 
through the motions was over however, and ATO was 
about to explode.
Otis Allan Glazebrook was a young man from Virgi
nia who fought for the South in the Civil War. After
wards, he wanted-to form a "secret society among his 
fellow confederate veterans at Virginia Military Insti
tute. His primary objectives were to form ties of brother
hood between themselves and their former nothern 
adversaries as well as to seek permanent peace and ever
lasting brotherhood in the entire nation. On September 
11th, 1865, Glazebrook and two friends, Alfred Marshall 
and Erskine Mayo Ross, signed the constitution of 
Alpha Tau Omegathat Glazebrook had designed. ATO 
thus became the first fraternity established after the Civil 
War.
The founders also sought to separate their fraternity 
in four important ways. First, it was not founded in 
oppposition or in strict imitation of the others. 
Secondly, it was to be national, even international, in 
scope. Third, the goal of peace and brotherhood for all 
mankind was a novel, if not noble, founding principle. 
And fourth, it incorporated Christianity as an integral 
part of its teachings, as Glazebrook was a devout Episco
palian who eventually entered the ministry.
Only a few years later, the fraternity was dying 
through lack of communication, leadership, and 
extreme apathy. To the rescue came Joseph R. Ander
son, also a VMI initiate. Anderson pieced together the 
status of all the chartered chapters and pushed the 
reforms needed to reorganize ATO. At the time, only 
two chapters remained in existence. Referred to as the 
"second founder, Anderson recommended that new' 
chapters could only be started on strong, expanding 
campuses, preferably in the North or West. A periodical 
must be started to bridge the communication gap 
between chapters. Also, the Constitution should be 
revised and distributed throughout along the codifica
tion of the laws. Despite further growing pains through 
the years, ATO was here to stay thanks to Anderson.
Carnegie-Mellons Delta Pi chapter was the fisst social 
fraternity founded onthethen Carnegie Techcampusin 
1923. Two local fraternities, Xi Sigma Upsilon and 
Delta Epsilon Omega, merged into the Delta Xi local, 
which eventually applied for an ATO charter which 
was granted on March 11th, 1923 and marked the begin
ning of Delta Pi, ATOs first Pittsburgh chapter. The 
current house, built for the 1957-58 academic year, is 
located on the corner of Forbes and Morewood Avenues.
One of the main similarities of CMU ATOs since its 
beginning here has been an emphasis on sports. The 
ATO PALM, (Andersons quarterly brainchild) entries 
for Carnegie Tech overflow with athletic achievements 
from water polo to golf to varsiiy football and buggy 
supremacy. The "jock frat as it is often called today, 
was probably called something similar in every decade 
of its.existence.

---------------------------------------------------

THE ATO CREED 
To bind men together in a brotherhood 
based upon eternal and immutable 
principles, with a bond as strong as 
right itself and as lasting as humanity; 
to know no north, no south, no east, no 
west, but to know man as man, to teach 
that true men the world over should 
stand together and contend for supre
macy of good over evil; to teach, not 
politics, but morals; to foster, not parti
sanship, but the recognition of true 
merit wherever found; to have no nar
rower limits within which to work 
together for the elevation of man than 
the outlines of the world; these were the 
thoughts and hopes uppermost in the 
minds of the founders of the Alpha Tau 
Omega fraternity.
Ottis Allan Glazebrook 1880 
ATO PROPYLON
By eleven oclock, the Beta pledges were performing 
their pledge night ritual of dashing down the street and 
depositing their empty beer cup in the U.S. mailbox in 
front of ATO, and sprinting back to run across a soaped 
floor to chug another to the tick of astopwatch. Without 
provocation, house manager Mike Zellhart turned on 
the hose outside and began squirting each new Beta on 
his trip back. Jim Oberkircher threw a gallon of milk at 
another, and flung a chair at an SAE pledge who 
shouted "fuck you in the general direction of the porch. 
"Obie was the loser though. "I got more milk on 
myself than on him, he ruefully commented. Obie is an 
interesting story, he works for campus security, but on 
nights like this, its hard to tell.
Back inside, Jim Flynn "had a great time. First, a 
plate of macaroni salad flew across the living room in 
the direction of recently graduated Frank Pugliano, who 
was no doubt, instigating this in some fashion. If he 
does nothing for the rest of his life, Pug will always be 
hailed in the reminiscent annals of ATO for driving his 
Maverick through the entire length of the cut with no 
clothes on and being apprehended just as he pulled on 
to Forbes Avenue in the summer of 1979. This time 
though, he seemed delighted to let Jimmy go wild and 
just follow the action. Jim is about six feet tall and two 
hundred thirty pounds of grizzly bear. Eventually, Pug 
couldnt resist and incited Jimmy further. Standing 
behind the double doors leading onto the front stairwell 
landing, Pug was opening one of the doors quickly and 
sticking his tongue out and gurgling "Blah Blah Blah 
as Jim responded by throwing more plates and almost a 
dozen glasses at the door. Pug was quicker though, and 
always managed to shut the door just in time as glass 
shrapnel flew everywhere.
Pissed off, ATOs Genghis Khan went back to the 
kitchen for a fire extinguisher. The last time Jim was 
pissed off, he rolled over to the edge of his bed, grabbed 
an ax on the floor and threw it at John Kenny, who had 
woken him up. Fortunately, the ax missed the doorway 
and struck the wall. Jim meanwhile, rolled over and 
went back to sleep. As Joe Schinosi sat innocently eating 
a salad in the kitchen, Jimmy proceeded to powderize 
the salad as well as most of Joe. Pug meanwhile, was 
folio wing Jimmy. This was prime entertainment not to 
be missed at any cost. The next target was the piano, 
located in the corner of the living room. With a thud of 
wood crashing into a radiator, Jim tipped it over and 
then proceeded into the hallway, grabbing John Ken
ny s ten speed bike and heaving it down the stairs. After 
one more fire extinguisher, Jim was done for the night 
and spent the rest of the night playing peacemaker in 
stopping would-be fights.
I think it is obvious how much this
Fraternity
has meant to me. When you've got Brothers
like
this, you've got friends!
Mark E. Winkle man Kansas '80
1980 Thomas Arkle Clark Award Winner
(Highest undergraduate award in Alpha
Tau Omega)
7he ATO PALM, September 1980
Brothers in the house? I treat them like 
wood
work, when I walk in a room, they're there 
but
you just don't notice.
James M. FLynn
I hate the kid. And I'm going to make it so 
miserable for him he'll WANT to 
deactivate.
Nameless ATO referring to Rich Andros 
Decemberr, 1979
Friday night was winding down when Kenny McCall 
attempted to attack Warner Hall with achair. "Fuckthis 
place, fuck this place he kept snorting. All of asudden, 
he took off across Forbes with the infamous blue chair 
that usually sits astride the porch wall. Zellhart and Obie 
took off after him and caught up to him behind the 
bushes facing Forbes. "Zellmo reached him first and 
never doing anything halfway, tackled Kenny and 
shouted "Cmon! Were goin backtcHhe house. Whatsa 
matter Soupbone? As Zellmo let Kenny up, he went for 
the chair again but Obie had two hands on it and the 
chair was going nowhere. "Settle down Kenny. Obie 
said calmly as they both led the reluctant "Bone back to 
the porch. The next day, Kenny just shook his head and 
said "I just wanted to attack the system Pauly.
Corporal Guy Pollice is twenty six, with wavy brown 
hair, friendly brown eyes and a thick, athletic build. A 
Central Catholic grad, hes been with CMU campus 
security for a year and a half. On duty pledge night, he 
was sipping a beer under the tree between SAE and ATO 
chatting with Dale West and several others. "Yeah, we 
have to control the situation, but theres no problem. Its 
a typical pledge night, everyones drunk and running 
around yelling and throwing beer on each other. Were 
here just so nobody gets hurt...Id say our biggest prob
lem is a few kids drink too much and pass out. 
Perhaps the most qualified in-house behavioral ana
lyst is Adolph Jan Gribowicz. "Grubo graduated in 
December of 1979 with a well-earned graphic communi
cation degree and now works for Harris Company in 
New York City. What makes Grubo unique is that it 
took him six and a half years to graduate. Coming from 
a bad home environment and having to put himself 
through school, he took over a year off in the midst of his 
education to work in order to stay in school. Since 1974 
hes endured more abuse than any four year man 
around; but much of it was deserved for the brother who 
bought fine wines, had an account at a local florist, wore
cheap suits constantly and smoked a pipe."This place is 
the best thing that ever happened to me, he said 
seriously, pointing to the house with his unlit pipe.
"It was harder to get in then, you had to know your 
information...Sung Lee for instance, was initiated with
out knowing half the brothers in the house...Something 
else is that the traditions are slowly dying. We won 
buggy for ten or twelve years straight once, now you just 
don't see the interest. Same with Greek Sing, we used to 
be good...now its just a jag, just like everything else. But 
the people...ATO has the most diverse array of people 
youre going to find, and thats its greatest virtue...You 
have Bruce Witherell, whose father is a millionaire...you 
have guys with unemployed fathers who are scraping 
the barrel just to get by...youve had an entire line of 
brothers through here, the Wests, who will always think 
a certain way...sick people from the old school like 
Flynn...people who are unexplained, like Denny...or 
how about the country boys like Zellmo and Creech?...Then theres Perry! whose enigmatic to me to this 
day. You NEVER know what hes going to do... Thats 
why we have the people he added softly. "SAE will 
check your background and see how much your father 
makes, whether youll fit the mold or not... Here, its all 
what you are. I 11 be back here in five years, ten years, and 
I wont know a goddamn soul, but every chance I get Im 
going to put a little back of what its given me.
I may not be a brother but I'll 
be the first fucking one to de
fend this place and the people in it.
Terence Siveeney, Civ. E. '82
(After ivarding off an irate motorist swing
ing a four foot wooden pole with a kitchen 
chair since splintered to pieces. The motor
ist's car had been struck ivith an object 
thrown from the porch, and the man tvas 
soon subdued by Scott West.) Spring 1980
Saturday night began with several of the brothers 
watching porno movies on a raised white laminated 
table on the porch as an act of protest against the recently 
passed state porn crackdown laws. Easily visible from 
Forbes Avenue and the neighboring portion of the cut, 
the movies were cut short by the arrival of security chief 
Armand Castrelli and Corporal Guy Pollice, on their 
way home from work, they had caught an eyeful at the 
red light. "What the hell are you guys doin now? Guy 
Pollice just shook his head as Kenny ran inside with the 
projector. As Corporal Pollice well knows, its another 
Saturday night.

---------------------------------------------------

ENOS
MAUREEN BRENNAN
Rumor has it hes won awards and grants to 
dig around in the ancient ruins of Greece. Some
thing to do with rhetoric, students say, but hes 
a great guy. He must be Greek or something. 
Cant imagine why hes so into that stuff.
There are many disciplines that study how 
language functions; rhetoric is one of the oldest.
I sat down with a cup of coffee and the bor
rowed Panasonic tape recorder and rewound the 
interview. Turned out the rumors were true. Not 
only does he do research in Greece, run mara
thons and play tennis, but he also has a complete 
knowledge of ancient Greek and ancient Latin  
different languages entirely from modem Greek 
and Latin.
Maureen: You look tired.
A smile emerges from behind the black beard, 
and twinkles from beyond the small wire 
spectacles.
Rich Enos: The alarm rang at 5 oclock this 
morning.
Only 33, he does look Greek, but is actually of a 
Portuguese and Italian background.
A miniature bronze Thinker sits in front of 
him on the desk  the award that changes hands 
between authors of the best papers in his rhetoric
classes. It sits awaiting its first owner of the 81 
semester.
The Thinker is part of the tradition of Enos 
that started T/z years ago at The University of 
Michigan, and at Camegie-Mellon in the fall of 
1979. I was lucky enough to be in his first class at 
CMU. I doubt very much if he was as impressed 
with us as we were of him. What we could never 
figure out though, was how he could get so 
excited about rhetoric, and what in the world 
could have prompted him to leave The Univ. of 
Michigan to live alone in Pittsburgh for a year 
while his wife finished her third year of law 
school?
Enos: In the field of English, Richard Young, 
head of the English Department, is one of the two 
or three most outstanding experts of rhetoric 
there is. If it was any one thing, I came to work 
with him. CMU is developing into one of the 
finest rhetoric programs in the nation.
There are many areas of rhetoric one can study, 
for example a specific person like Aristotle, or the 
various theories of how language functions. The 
latter is what all writing majors take as Expo II.
At CMU, there are several English professors 
who are involved in rhetoric: David Kaufer is 
doing research on building theories of rhetoric, 
particularly dealing with irony; Sandra Oster is a 
linguist trained in rhetoric; Lois Fowler is work
ing on curriculum design, that is how to go 
about teaching rhetoric and developing writing 
programs; John Wands is investigating the rela
tionship of Renaissance literature and rhetoric; 
and Erwin Steinberg, Head of the Communica
tion Design Center, is working on document 
design with organizations such as the U.S. 
government, which wishes to improve its 
communication.
Interdepartmental research also is evident in 
rhetoric. Linda Fowler of the English Depart
ment and John Hayes of the Psychology' Depart
ment lead the nation in the study of the cognitive 
processes of writing, which is how we think 
about writing and how we structure it. Rich Enos 
is also interested in these processes, in the rela
tionship between thinking and language, but 
emphasizes the historical development of cogni
tive processes.
While in college Enos became interested in 
ancient theories of rhetoric and discourse, and 
while on a government fellowship he got his 
Ph.D. in rhetorical theory with an emphasis in 
classical rhetoric. According to Enos knowledge, 
the following summer he became the first person 
who was a non-classics major to be admitted to 
the American School of Classical Studies in 
Athens with the intent of studying rhetoric.
One might think that in the last 3000 years 
someone else would have had the same idea, but 
Enos is the only rhetorician he knows of who has 
studied ancient transcriptions to uncover the 
structuring of discourse. Presently, he is working 
on a book about how people develop systems of 
language, and how this influences their thought 
through time. It wasnt until the last 100 years, 
and in many cases 20-30 years, that most of the 
ancient inscriptions necessary have been 
excavated.
These inscriptions are right fron antiquity. 
Theyve never been translated. They tell us 
directly how people wrote, how they thought 
about literature, how they viewed the role of lan
guage, and how they tried to communicate their 
ideas. A lot of Greek history has been rewritten by 
these sources.
From about the 12th to the 8th century B.C. the 
Greeks seem to have lost all development in writ
ing. What really knocks me out is that we have no 
writing and no writing, and then all of a sudden 
we have The Illiad and The Odyssey. Name one 
piece of literature before The Iliad and The 
Odyssey. We know of none. But there must be 
some transmitted copies of what came in between 
buried in monastaries in Greece or unexcavated 
in the earth.
Enos received a grant from the Karl R. Wallace - jj 
Memorial Award that has been supported by the 
University of Michigan and now by CMU. He is 
compiling a bibliography of sources for other 
researchers to find out what has really been done 
based on archaeological and epigraphical 
accounts. He originally found these sources 
through extensive research and a lot of field 
work, and has developed an ability to look at an 
inscription and instantly date it within 50 years.
One must have an incredible tolerance for frustration. You can spend an entire summer and |
find nothing or you can go to the first site and 
find enough for your entire life. My wife and I 
have done things like hike 9 miles one way in 90 
degree weather in Greece to find nothing but 
lizards and snakes.
Ive literally stood 7 feet above the ground with 
one foot on each of two marble pillars to read an 
inscriptionwith the risk of the entire 400 
pounds of rock falling on me. Id read out the 
inscriptions and my wife would write them p 
down. Wed go to storehouses of Greek museums 
and find priceless documents stacked up with 
years and years of pigeon dung in between.
Enos visited one site of which there was no 
prior written history, and through inscriptions 
and present-day archaeological reports, he recon
structed the entire rhetorical history of a civic 
center that held theatrical, literary and oratorical 
contests which covered a span of about 500 years- I
over twice the time the U.S. has been a nation. jj
One of the stones he studied listed all the ath
letes, events, and champions of one of the early 
Olympic-style games.
You examine the stones up and pretty soon 
they start talking to you-Well, heres what we 
did. . . Some of, them even speak in the first 
person.
Presently Enos is working on several projects 
besides his book. He and several graduate stu
dents are compiling a bibliography of heuristics 
used as a basis for generating funded research for 
the department. He was invited to speak at a 
conference on his research of rhetoric in March, is 
coordinating 3 panels for the American branch of ' I 
the International Society for the History of Rhe
toric, is scheduled to present a paper here in 
Pittsburgh in April, and was recently invited to a 
Gulf Oil conference in New Orleans in May. As a 
representative of the Humanities, he is one of 12 
professors chosen from all over the U.S. to serve ^ 
on Gulfs Faculty Advisory Board to investigate 
social problems which universities and Gulf Oil 
can work together on solving.
Maureen: How do you manage to do it all?
More smiles from behind the black beard and 
tiny spectacles.
Enos.l had 12 years of Catholic education by 
the Christian Brothers. It taught me tremendous 
discipline. Ive never been afraid to work hard. H
His enthusiasm was catching when I first met ^ 
him a year and a half ago, but even after a course 
in rhetoric Im just now understanding what it 
can mean. * ?; * * J
Rich Enos has won awards and grants to dig 
around in the ancient ruins of Greece. He is a 
great guy. And I cant imagine w hy hes the only 
rhetorician around who w into that stuff.

---------------------------------------------------

Glenda, at the Laundry, 
Falls in Love
Glenda transferred wash to dry, shedding socks, lone paper clip, no quarters, caught her sweater on the dryer door, thinking how in
elegant hoping handsome 
stranger resembles celebrity would not notice.
Dena Santoro

---------------------------------------------------

10
The dog growls and sits on the threshold. A 
woman appears on the porch. Looking seventy, 
but perhaps forty-five, she holds her hip and 
smiles. One front tooth is gray and shorter than 
the other. Her left eye is crossed, a streak of white jj 
running across the iris to the pupil. The skirt and 
blouse dont match, although her sneakers match | 
her hair ribbon. One shoe is tongueless and is 
laced with a strip of cloth that matches the front 
door blanket.
"Gretchen wont hurt nobody. Shes blind, j 
Scares easy.
"We were admiring your .quilt, I say. "Its 
gorgeous. Did you make it?
"Sure did. Got plenty more inside. Wanna 4 
come take a look?
Jeannette stares at the woman, then at the dog. 
She begins to speak. M
"Wed be happy to, I say. "Jeannette, call I 
Steven over. "You dont mind our friend coming, 9 
do you? I ask the woman.
"Lands sake, no, she chuckles.
The woman and I step inside while Jeannette | 
waits for Steven. Gretchen sniffs my ankles as I J 
pass. The smell reminds me of the alley behind | 
my school; the one that houses the Dempsey I 
Dumpster. A green imitation marble terrazo tile 1 
apparently covered the floor at one time. Dark I 
brown now outlines the mosaic design of tile I 
fragments, the entire floor covered in a dingy film 1 
of filth.
Steven and Jeannette come in. Steven holds his 1 
hands behind him, taking bowing steps, as if I 
embarrassed by the ugliness he sees. He looks up i 
from the floor as the woman extends her hand. I 
"My names Millie, she says.
Steven lightly shakes her hand. "Im Steven. 1 
He checks around for Jeannette. She is shuffling 
uncomfortably near the front entrance. "This is 
Phoebe, Steven continues. I smile. "And this is 
Jeannette. Jeannette nods politely, but remains 
in her corner. "i
THE HOSPITALITY HOUSE
Carolyn Toth
It is June of 1976 and about seventy-eight 
degrees in the shade. The sun is hot, turning the 
leaves on the trees to a dusty green. But the 
breeze is refreshing. Steven has graduated from 
high school this past week. Consequently, we, 
that is, Steven, Jeannette, and myself, are taking 
a camping trip in the mountains as a celebration 
of sorts. We are oa our way back from town. 
Jeanette had wanted to see the Indians. She is 
disappointed to find them brown, not red. 
"Eastern tribes are brown, Steven has 
explained. In fact, the one I spoke with is a 
Seminole from Dania, Florida. He plays a 
Cherokee till winter, when Florida becomes 
everyones vacation spot.
A lumber truck from Asheville streaks past us, 
its tail wind blasting the deer flies off of the Lazy 
Susans that lace the two-lane road. Around the 
next curve, we come in sight of a bedraggled 
shack, hung on the side of a ravine that follows 
the other side of the road. The two stacks holding
up its hind end could go at any time. There is a 
front porch on the plane, almost obliterated by 
rhododendron and berry bushes that cling to its 
frame. As we draw nearer, bright colors appear. It 
is a quilt that is hung over a rusty metal chair.
"Lets take a look, suggests Jeannette.
"Suppose whoever lives there doesnt what 
visitors, says Steven.
"They say mountain people are hospitable, 
says Jeannette.
"They also say mountain people shoot other 
people for trespassing, argues Steven.
"Then stay here. Ill be right back. Are you 
coming? she asks me.
I nod and follow her across the road. We find 
only a first step to the porch. The missing second 
and third result in Jeannettes climbing tip on 
hands and knees. One loud leap onto the brittle 
planks and I am by her side. There is no front 
door, though a gnawed-on blanket is tied back to 
one side of the doorway. We cross over to the 
quilt. Jeannette reaches to touch it just as a fat 
hound lunges from the doorway, tethered by a 
frayed rope that must be four inches thick. The 
dog stands between us and our escape route, not 
barking, but growling with yellow gums exposed.
"Oh God! Jeannette whispers.
We stand still, Steven picking grass across the 
road from us.
"Gretchen, whos there? asks a voice from 
inside. "We got company, girl?

---------------------------------------------------

"Now, come on. No need to be bashful around 
[he likes of me. Millie goes to Jeannette and hugs 
ler around the shoulders. Jeannette stiffens and 
lashes a shaky smile. One might have thought 
lillie was holding a gun to her rib cage. Millie 
Jeleases her hold on Jeannette. She steps back 
Hrom the three of us, tipping her head and staring 
vith a hand on her chin, as if admiring a Matisse 
utout. It strikes me that Matisse would be a 
fit ranger to her.
5
"Pleased to have you all take a seat. Millie 
lotions to her sofa. We sit on ita bed covered by 
due of her quilts. It reeks of mange and dog hair 
Slings to my sweaty palm as I lean on one arm.
I "Its not often folks stop in. Mainly trucks on this 
b ick road.
I "Could we see your other quilts? Jeannette asks 
ervously.
| "Got no more. Just remembered that my cousin 
t< ok the last one. Ive got a garden, though.
I She stands and wags a finger for us to follow. She 
pens the back screen door and points to a small plot
0 red clay far down the ravine.
"I cant see anything, says Steven.
1 "Just planted it, she says.
I Millie swings down the path, grabbing birch trunks 
ggl)r balance. She stands sideways, digging the heel of 
Her right sneaker into the spongy ground. Her left 
>ot drags behind her, steering and braking her steep 
Jlescent. We stand above, watching her bend and dig 
in one corner of the so-called garden.
I think we should go, says Jeannette.
I i Whats bugging you? Steven asks.
: "Nothing. She wont look at either of us. "Its 
V) just all so depressing.
I "Whats so bad? I ask.
I Steven is irate. "She seems to like it, he
c< mments.
Well, I dont. Jeannette peers down the ravine.
|H1 think living out here, alone like this, makes her
^azy. Jeanette retreats into the house.
I think shes the strange one, says Steven.
I Millie is pushing her way up the hill. She has one 
aJst clenched. The other hand occasionally clutches 
H the dirt as she climbs. Steven watches her. "I think 
Bies kinda cute.
I Millie pants a little. "Here you go. She empties a 
ndful of leaves into Stevens hand. They are the 
ze of an average adult thumbnail and a bit ragged. 
|1 hat s my head lettuce. Should grow up sweet if the 
ver dont rise and wash it away. Go ahead. 1 aste it.
"This is great, Millie. Steven looks at me, then at 
her. "But I think well save it to put in our salad 
tonight. He sprinkles the leaves into his shirt pocket.
She pats his cheek. "Thats fine, shfc says. She 
ushers us back into the kitchen. The screen door 
slams. Not much screen left but I love to hear that 
thing shut hard.
Jeannette is pouting in a chair at the kitchen table, 
her arms tucked under her knees. I think well leave, 
but Steven plants himself on a wooden crate in the 
far corner. He busily bites the inside of his cheek. I sit 
at the table with Jeannette, careful not to touch the 
back wall, which leans precariously over the edge. 
The windows seem like three wide eyes gazing down 
at the stream below.
"Can I get you all something to eat? Millie offers.
We shake out heads. "No, thank you, Steven 
replies.
Millie retrieves a loaf of bread from a metal 
cabinet. She whittles a chunk of butter from a dish in 
the icebox and spreads it across the heel.
"Is Gretchen back inside? she asks.
I look into the front room. "Yes. Shes asleep on 
the couch.
"Good dog. Millie leans against the stove as she 
sprinkles sugar on top of her bread. "A maniac come 
in one night and poked her eyes out. It was my 
husband. Well, it was my cousin first, then my 
husband. She takes a bite. "His temper always got 
him into fixes.
Jeannette looks like shes just chewed a lemon 
rind. She bends down to tie her hiking boot and 
comes close to brushing the top of a cockroach that 
waits by the chairs leg. Jeannette doesnt pull back, 
but ties her shoe and stares up at me as if she realizes 
that it belongs here.
"He come back a week later, a week to the very 
night. This time to get me. She puts down her bread 
and doesnt smile now. "See this eye? It is the one 
thats crossed. "Cant see a speck of light with it. But I 
took care of him before he took the other. Millie 
picks up a carving knife from a cardboard box on the 
counter. She displays the sharp edge then drops it 
back into the box. "His part of the family dont speak 
to me anymore. The sheriff said I done what I had to 
do.
Millie resumes nibbling on her bread. She bites on 
the side, then chews with her front teeth. The stale 
bread sticks in her teeth and to the roof of her mouth. 
She uses a long, dark fingernail to pry it loose. Not 
knowing how to respond to her story, I pick up a 
yellowed newspaper from the floor.
"Do you read much? I ask, ashamed for assuming 
her to be an illiterate.
Jeannette points to something on the first page. It 
is dated March 22, 1963.
"I can read the pictures, Millie boasts. 'Thats 
the one that has me when I stabbed Joe. Its best to 
look at when I cant sleep. Reading calms me down.
Steven swallows hard, Gretchen snarles from the 
next room.
"Gretchen, whos there? We got company, girl? 
Millie scurries to the porch.
I told you shes nuts! Jeannette stands up. ffLets 
g-Steven yanks at her belt loops. "Calm down, 
Jeannette.
Jeannette sits, defeated, huffing and puffing 
noisily. Steven rolls his eyes at her obnoxiousness. I 
agree.
Millie returns, obviously disappointed. 
"Gretchens chasing rabbits again.
"We have to leave now, Millie, I begin. "Our 
camp is still a few miles down from here.
"It might rain. You should stay. Her voice is 
quiet but rough, like tip-toeing through gravel. "A 
lightening storm can be Hell in these hills.
Jeannette grabs Steven by the arm and they head 
for the porch. I rise to follow but Millie stops me and 
holds my hand.
"I have pictures from when I was a girl like you. 
She seems to plead.
I make myself pull away and join Steven and 
Jeannette. Jeannette is dragging him by the 
shirtsleeve and I warn her not to be so obvious, that 
Millie might see. Millie comes out with Gretchen. 
Steven and Jeannette stroll down the road, not 
waiting for me. He blows Millie a kiss. She doesnt 
realize that its for her but waves back anyway.
"Wait, she tells me. "Give this to your 
girlfriend.
She folds the quilt neatly and holds it out to me. I 
drape it across one shoulder, only able to nod as I 
turn and run to catch up with Steven and Jeannette, 
and to disappear from Millies sight. Im nearing a 
curve in the road.
"Come back! Its going to rain, Millie calls.
I slow to a trot and turn around. Millie and 
Gretchen are gone. The quilt weighs heavily on my 
shoulder as I continue on the glaring sunlight.

---------------------------------------------------

12
SHEEP FARMING IN AMERICA 
by Gay Gi or dano
Last night I got into a discussion with my roommate, Ann, an art major who does 
things like making potato prints and paper out of dead vegetables. We were in the 
mood for an argument with each other, so the best topic we could think of was, of 
course, art, and, of course, we disagree about it.
I started a series of premises for her to lunge at, premises I really believe 
in. The first was that I believe farmers are artists too. (We didnt bother 
defining what art is first because thats a losing battle. We both have an idea. ) 
I backed up my argument by saying that I bet every damn farmer you meet can build 
an outhouse, ( including Anns father who is a popcorn farmer) and building with 
wood is an art I find difficult to refute. She agreed with me on that point.
Then I said growing vegetables is an art because you are, to a degree, 
controlling the growth of something beautiful. You keep those vegetables 
watered and fertilized, you keep them protected from storms and whatnot... I 
went on to say those farmers can predict all kinds of weather, weather no-ones 
ever even seen before! Isnt that an art? I asked her, without getting into my 
theory on witch doctors, and mice with chicken teeth.
Dont be an ass, she replied. Nature grows those vegetables, she said, not 
farmers. Well, nature grew everything that makes your paint, Ann, as well as the 
dead vegetables you use for your paper and dye class. Your control over them as a 
painter and artist is never questioned, I spat, why question the people who 
control their actual physical growth? Those farmers could kill every last one of 
those lettuce heads if they wanted to, but they dont! Just like you dont stop 
yourself from painting when you feel you have to, Ann. Isnt this the same thing? 
Lettuce ALLOWS you to paint! I screamed. Without those farmers who see to it that 
we have plenty of vegetables to eat and make paper out of, youre all washed up!
She was getting annoyed with me. She began to walk away until my final premise 
sufficiently shocked her into staying. I stated that it is without a doubt an art 
to roundup sheep off of a hill. Thats not an easy job, and theres an art to it 
just as theres an art to cooking and knitting. Listen to me, she says patiently, 
sheep-herding is NOT a damned art, Gay, its simply a responsibility! Isnt it 
your responsibility to create? I ask her. Isnt it your lot in life to paint? She 
claims lots in life are NOT artistic. They are a different category altogether, 
and I must be rational, she says.
Sheep, I begin again, have free wills of their own. They are entitled to graze 
wherever the hell they please, but it is^their lot in life to be herded and kept 
out of clover patches. If youve ever read Hardys  Far From The Madding 
Crowd,   you cannot help but feel Oak, the shepherd, is an artist. He knows what 
to do with those sheep in any circumstances. He knows to lance their sides when 
they blow up from too much clover, though hes never done it before. Its an 
instinct. I ask Ann if she doesnt feel that when she knows what to do when, say, 
her paper she is making starts to split, she is controlling the same kind of 
situation Oak is. She is saving something that deserves to live. Like the 
lettuce farmer who lets the lettuce survive until its ready to be picked. The 
shepherd saves the sheep from harm, but more importantly, he is controlling the 
fates of hundreds of living things by rounding them up. Like rounding up all your 
ideas for a painting, Ann. It seems to me no small job. It seems to me to be the 
work of an*artist. It is not easy to command crowds. _
Ann leaves at this point, telling me I should stick to books, but when I tried r. 
to renew the argument tonight, she said she was only kidding me when she argued 
with me. Maybe she agrees with me.
j
