PACIFIC OCEANNICARAGUALAGO ^ DE ^ 
NICARAGUA
COSTA RICA
By CLERIC L-TRYTOPHAN
Natrat Schmooze Editor
Weiner Hall has finally done something 
about student complaints against Pittsburgh 
weather. The latest version of the master plan 
has the campus based in sunny Nicaragua. 
We needed the room, stated CMI Chief Ex
ecutive Officer Richard M. CyraL
The southern location also should help in 
fund raising for the University Center. If the 
contras can get $48 million in humanitarian 
aid, we can get $30 million from Congress, 
said CyraL
Construction costs will be lower thanks to 
the National Guard units based in nearby 
Honduras. They have already constructed 60 
miles of road in that nation and have been 
contracted to build the new track.
The new track will be built on a daisy wheel, 
in case it needs to be rotated again.
Melting Institute and the Underwear Engi
neering Institute will be moved to nearby 
Panama.
Some administrators suggested that MarxistLenninist leaning in the College of Line Arts 
will increase by placing the campus in territory 
held by the Sandinistas.
We hope to employ contras to protect the 
campus, especially around the College of Line 
Arts. Were afraid that student activism will 
increase after the move, continued Cyrat at 
the press conterence held to announced tne 
latest campus plan.
The CEO didnt seem to think it is unusual 
for so many Master Plans to be announced in 
just a few years. Theyre just like software 
updates, youve got to expect the first halfdozen to be full of bugs, said Cyrat.
Another feature of the plan will be to colorcode the campus. Weiner Hall will be pink, 
Weany Hall will be blue. The University 
Center will be Natrat plaid, of course. CLA 
will be polka-dotted.
Construction will begin right after gradu
ation and is expected to be completed in time 
for the Class of 1999.
HONDURAS
map  Martin Griiwald
The newcampus plan proposes to put the University Center in Nicaragua. The Center will be funded by private donations from the Sultan 
of Brunei and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabi. Students will commute from Pittsburgh, where the dorms will be located.
CREATURES .............Page 7
Armenian folk tunes, how to shop for 
used turnips, and gazorched rat recipes
SPURTS......................Page 12
Arena football, Cuban baseball, and the 
1988 World Curling Championships
Second LCB raid 
hampered by 
rocketing rodents
By JAUNDICE WEE-WEE
Natrat Stafflibelist 
Violence erupted at 1:30 am on Satur
day as the LCB (Licorice Control 
Board) attempted to repeal its success
ful November raids on Picka Kappa 
Delta (Piccard) fraternity.
In the November raid the LCB took 
Piccard and Do Ra Me (DRM) by sur
prise and arrested 150 students on alco
hol related charges. This time word of 
the raid apparently reached Piccard sev
eral hours in advance. The LCB appar
ently also intended to re-raid DRM but 
went to Sporewood D tower by mistake.
When the LCB and state police arrived 
at Piccard Saturday morning they were 
met by Piccard brothers gazorching live 
rats at them. The officers at first took 
cover behind their squad cars waiung 
for the fraternity to run out of rats. Howtum We pa, Moroa!
Natrat
120 db, Issue ->/T"Carnegie Mellon IncorporatedApril 5,1988
 New plan puts campus in Nicaragua
Joe DiNardo implicated in Sleazy ' Bag Weekend weather scandal
Natrat Perversions Editor 
In a surprise disclosure this past week, it was 
revealed that the Carnegie Mellon, Inc. Ad
mission Impossible Office has this year been
All Skid Rose could get out of the Admis
sion Impossible Office was a song and
4 .. dance.
involved in a shady payoff arrangement with 
God. The bribe scam is believed to have been 
an insidious effort to control the campus 
weather during Admission Impossibles infa
mous Sleazy Bag Weekends for potential 
recruits.
Details are still sketchy, but in a statement 
this week President Cyrat said that we have 
reason to believe that it is safe to assume that 
the evidence indicates that the writing is on the 
wall...We arent actually accusing anybody, 
but its clear that theres been a mistake made 
somewhere.
The Admission Impossible office apparently 
paid out over $400,000 in 1987-88 revenue to 
a secret Swiss bank account maintained by Pat 
Robertson For President, which was then 
withdrawn by other close associates of God. In 
return for the cash, God reportedly arranged 
for warm, sunny, perfect, unseasonable and 
all-around un-Pittsburgh-like weather during 
all of last semesters Ad-Imp Sleazy Bag 
Weekends. The complex affair has been
The first hint of something awry came from 
the student body, suspicious of the pretematurally good weather. The first two didnt really 
seem unusual, it being October, said Joe 
Blow, a CE senior, but when we had exactly 
48 hours of 68-degree weather in the middle of 
January, preceded and followed by loads of 
snow, I began to wonder.
Weather experts have been consulted about 
the scandal, but most simply deny invol vment. 
Rumor has it that TV weatherman Joe Di
Nardo had a hand in the affair. Joell say it 
will if the price is high enough, said an 
industry source. Its as simple as making a 
phone call, and you can have any weather you 
like. Mr. DiNardo was unavailable for commenL
Corporate authorities are expected to take 
action sometime this decade. Recruits were 
stunned at the revelation, often reworking 
entire wardrobes that were based on the illusionary weather they had witnessed. Its a 
disaster -1 have to buy a raincoat now! said 
one irate prospecLdubbed Bagscam by the popular press.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The NatratApril 5,1988
World
News11/wrs
andfire
even more missiles
NICOSIA (TJ)fired
range missiles into two major
longcities
_s religious hierarchy, 
., capital of the ancient
_________, after declaring a unilateral, threeday truce in the war of the cities from mid
night (4 pm EST).
The barrage came a few hours after an 
_________ warship in the Persian Gulf at
tacked and set ablaze a___________super
tanker, the latest victim of the so-called 
tanker war.
The official______News Agency, moni
tored in Nicosia, said all three projectiles were
fired at around____am EST  one into
_____, seat of .
and two into__
Persian empire.
An ______ government spokesman an
nounced that the cease-fire decision was in 
line with the traditions of hospitality and as a 
gesture of courtesy to T urkish Prime Minister 
Turgut Ozal, who was scheduled to begin 348- 
hour visit to_____tomorrow.
The unidentified spokesmans statement 
was quoted by INA as saying: The truce will
last for the duration of the visit and (_____)
would not resume the attacks until six hours 
after the Turkish prime ministers departure.
The announcement didnt say when Ozal 
was leaving, and sources in Ankara said only 
that he was scheduled to return home Sunday.
Tass issues statement 
about Afganistan
3AC3HHrT0H UDK) - HeromaienrH 6eT*eeH T3e y.C. aHA >KanaH 
oBep T3e nacT $ea naHc $aMvieA in 
nponyMe aH arpeeMeHT nr rpeaiep 
aHMecc fop AMepvtMaH HOMiiaHMec 
in >KanaHece roBepHMeHT enra 
CTpyHTMOH np03KeHTC.
A ceHwop PearaH aAMMHMCTpaienr oMHHwayi caMA a AenMCMOH nr 
l3eT3ep in MHMTwaTe a #opMayi 
MHBecTwraTMOH of T3e MaTTep, 
H3MH3 MMT3T yiaTep YieaA in TpaAe 
peTa/iwaTMOH, noy/iA 6e Mane ac 
eapviff ac HexT neex aT a MeeTMHr of 
T3e flSMTe 3oyce hrnrneee noviMMH 
MoyHMnyi, a Ma6wHeT-yieBeyi naHeA 
3eaAeA 6tt TpeacypB CenpeTaptt 
>KaMec EaKep. Ac penopTeA, a cenapaTe y.C. MHTepareHMtt naHeyi sac 
yHaHMMoyc^itt penoMMeHAeA T3aT 
T3e npecwfleHT viayHHS cyM3 aH
MHBeCTMraTMOH.
'He saBe exsaycTOA oyp nyppeHT 
ManaHMTtt in pecoyiBe isn oyTCTaHAMHr Mccyec/ T3e aAMMHMCTpaTMOH 
o^MHMayi caMA yiacT TyecAaff.
Tse oMMHMa/i caMA T3e >KanaHece 
r0B0pHM0HT neyieraTMOH in T3e 
Hac3MHrT0H TaYixc nponoceA TyecAait T3aT T3e AMcnyccMOHc 6e rnra 
TMHyefl. EyT, se caMA, "He'pe rni 
npenapen in cnaeAyAe aHR <iypT3ep 
AMcnyccMOHc rwBOH T3e (JiyHziaMeHTa/i AMMepeHHec" 6eT*eeH T3e irn 
roBepHMeHTC nr *3aT )KanaH 
caoyAA fny aHA 30 * ei csoyyiA AO MT, 
in nepMMT y.C. MOMnaHwec in def nr 
o3e XCanaHece ny6,AMH-itopK npoxeHTC.
A MeM6ep o$ T3e >KanaHece HeroTVtaTMHr TeaM rnrmetenf T33T 
TOKttO flaHTC T3e Ta^lKC in enra 
TMHye, aHA caMA ei sac o^epeA 
"CMHHepe aHA cy6cTaHTMBe nponocayic" aHA T3aT "coMe nporpecc sac 
6eeH MaAe Tae >KanaHece anKHoayieAreA, Tsoyrs, TsaT isng saA 
?avtAeA in peans arpeeMeHT bei3 
Tse y.C. nr ceBepavi Mccyec, era 
HAyAMHr son in Apa* a ^iMHe 6eTiieeH Tse ny6viMH aHA npHBaie 
ceMTopc er Tse npoxeHTc feHa 
nycceA.
AyiTsoyrs >KanaHece npMMe uera 
MCTep Ho6opy TaxecsMTa inff 
npecMAeHT PearaH er >KaHyapK 
TsaT oncpn naHTeA in Aeitiyce Tse 
HOHTpoBepcil, y.C. o^MMMayic cawA 
TyecAaK TsaT >KanaHece HeroTwaTopc pe<|iyceA in annenT Tse MAea 
TsaT Tsepe csoyyiA 6e a <topMayi 
arpeeMeHT 6eTeeH Tse irn noyHTpwec.
ur aAAHTMOH, y.C. coypnec era 
BoyiBeA er Tse HeroTwaTwoHC cawA 
Tse >KanaHece TeaM floy iPfrwi 
6poaAeH ceBeH nponoceA ny6AHHHopKC npoxeHTC rr >KanaH nr 
l3M43 y.C. HOMnaHMeC MMr3T reT 
"cneHMayi TpeaTMeHT" in seyin $aMMAMapM3e T3eM HMT3 )KanaHece 
6MAAMHr nponeAypec. Tse ceBeH 
npoxeHTC MHHViyAe nepTawH ?aMMAMTMeC HOHHeHTeA KMT3 T3e eXnaHCMOH o^ 3aHeAa awpnopT er 
onc.ny a He anpnopT er Tae 3MpoC3MMa apea, a Maxop exnpeccflaK 
cepBMHr T3e onc.n nopT npoxeHT, 
aH MHTepHaTMOHaA HOH^epeHHe 
neHTep er ftoKosaMa aHA T3e conayiAeA KaHcaM CHMeHHe uei. 
npoxeMT.
Tae HeroTMaTMOHC erTnfTnf
yieHrT3R AMcnyccMOH o^ *3aT copT 
O^ HOHTpaHTC y .C. HOMnaHMeC MMr3T 
reT nr eaH3 o# Tsece npoxeHTC, 6yT 
aHHopAMHr in a y.C. oWMHMa/i, T3e 
>KanaHece caMA T3efl noyjiAH'T
aAAOH npocneHTMBe ?openrH 6maAepc Mope T3aH 10 to 14 Aattc to 
cy6MMT 6mac OHHe T3e MMrsT 6e 
AeHAapeA eyiMrM6/ie 6MAAepc. 
>KanaHece MOMnaHMec, T3e y.C. o<J>- 
(JiMHMa^i T3MC MceHMeay h mh pycCM14HU AKxen MeflM a^atRtmo 
caMA, apeH'T 6o TsepeA 6K T3e peyiaTMBeAR c3opT AeaA^iMHec ?op cy6-
MMTTMHr SHAG OH KAXA HAXAye 
HAxeyAH ny6AMH-flopKC npoxeHTC 
er T3aT HoyHTpR 6enayce TseR ape 
ver Tse AecMrH nponecc aT Tse (JipoHT 
eHA."
Dole challenges Bush 
to boxing match
By JAUNDICE WEE-WEE
Natrat Stafflibelist
Apparently frustrated by his inability to pick 
up ground in the race for the Republican presi
dential nomination, Kansas Senator Bob Dole 
has challenged Vice President George Bush to 
fight for the nomination like a man.
In a televised speech on Thursday, Dole 
challenged Bush to meet him in a boxing 
match in any state of Bushs choosing.
According to Dole, The real issue in this 
race who has the strength and courage to face 
the problems before this country. I see no 
better way to resolve this question than for the 
Vice President and myself to strap on the 
gloves and fight it out.
Dole says that the way he envisions it, the 
two candidates would bypass the primary or 
caucus in the state selected and the winner of 
the bout would receive all the delegates for that 
state. When asked where that would leave the 
third republican candidate, Pat Robertson, 
Dole replied, I would be willing to make it a 
three way Battle Royale but I do not think Pat 
would come. His father got him out of his last 
big fight, why should this one be any differ
ent?
In an interview after his speech, Dole pre
dicted that he would win a fight with Bush 
saying, That little weenie wont lay a glove 
on me. Between being Vice President and 
being married to Barbara he hasnt done any
thing masculine in eight years. I could beat 
him with my good arm tied behind my back.
So far President Reagan has stayed neutral 
on the issue of a Dole/Bush boxing match. His 
only comment has to say that If this fight 
takes place, I wish both George and Bob the 
best of luck and I hope they will remember the 
12th commandment: Thou shalt not hit other 
republicans below the belt.
Man shot in balls by 
Vice President Bush
By STUE PIDD
Natrat Groupie 
PITTSBURGH  Residents of Allegheny 
County were warned once again to start con
serving water when a drum containing 20 
million gallons of Heinz ketchup spilled into 
the Monagahela River earlier today.
Heinz officials claim that the ketchup was 
being stored in a drum that had formally been 
used without incident in Cleveland. The drum 
was taken apart, shipped, and reassembled 
along the river several months ago. The com
pany claims this is standard operating proce
dure.
Reports from Monroeville and Wilkinsburg 
already report that ketchup has started to leak 
into their water supplies, forcing the commu
nities to shut off their water intake lines.
By 4 pm, the spill was already as far as the 
Bloomfield Bridge, and experts expect the 
spill to reach Point State Park by nightfall.
When asked to comment on the situation, 
Allegheny County Executive Pete Flaherty 
said, This is bullshit We just went through 
this crap with the damn oil spill, dont those 
assholes leam?
Pittsburgh Mayor Richard Caliguri was 
more subdued. Big deal, he gleefully noted, 
we get our water from the Allegheny. When 
will those suckers leam?
The accident has turned into a bonanza for 
fast-food operators in the Tri-State Area. Wit
nesses claim that a mob of McDonalds opera
tors have taken over the Mon Wharf and are 
attempting to siphon off as much of the 
ketchup as possible before it sinks below the 
water surface.
A McDonalds spokesman refused to confirm 
nor deny these reports.
Instead, company lawyers read a terse state
ment It claimed The McDonalds Corpora
tion has a long-standing tradition of paying for 
all of the condiments used in its restaurants. 
Furthermore, it would be a bitch putting that 
much ketchup in the little packets.
In response to the accident Guldens Mus
tard Inc. has already started to reinforce its 
mustard vats. However, there is hope that 
shrimp may be stocked in the river in time to 
make the worlds largest shrimp cocktail.
News Burps appear CourSftesy of Tao Joans; Ink. 
ABUSE AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMI Student Debilitation Center...............................x PAIN
Dean Fails Office.........................................................x FUCK
LessPizza.......................................................................x BARF
Bobs Drive-thru Birth Control Hut..........................x BOFF
NEW ** the female condom  introductory special this week only, free 
installation and lube job with student I.D.
Drug Connection........................................................ x BONG
24 hour supply center - free delivery over 10 grams
Pell-Ald............................................................................xHAHA
A series of taped information on why you are ineligible for more financial aid, 
but will still spend your first 7 years income paying back your student loans.
CFA Headline.................................................................x WHO?
Up-to-the-minute information on the status of the latest department heads.
Student Debilitation Center, a division of Brad & Loiss Affairs 
Sporewood Gardens, Dungeon
You're smart enough to get into 
Carnegie Mellon, Inc., stay up four 
nights each week doing problem sets, 
never miss a class, and make dean's list 
every semester.
And you stopped smoking?
Sadist.

---------------------------------------------------

April 5,1988The NatratPage 3
Senators wife claims newspapers 
contain subliminal messages
By CLERIC L-TRYTOPHAN
Natrat Schmooze Editor 
Fresh from her battle over rock lyrics, Tipsy 
Bore, wife of presidential candidate Senator 
Foul Bore, has decided to take on newspapers. 
Tipsy claims that hidden, subliminal messages 
i are back-masked into articles in major 
newspapers.
832U0 olbl .glifinsol nWOIgfli 232UB0 Ollal
.zlifinaoi nwoignt 
For years groups have claimed that rock 
songs have Satanic or suggestive messages 
recorded backwards. Tipsy carries this sug
gestion one step further, saying that newspa
pers hide Satanic messages in newspapers.
Flying rats play crucial role in raid
guess where it started?
ever, when their supply of rats was used 
up Piccard began gazorching pledges 
instead.
When asked later about the decision to 
switch to human ammunition Piccard 
president Evil Calendar replied I do not 
see why it is such a big deal. We were 
just going to feed them to the snake 
anyway.
When it became apparent that Piccard 
was not going to run out of ammunition 
the LCB and police called in an armed 
fire department riot control team which 
stormed the house and ended the battle.
Twenty-two Piccard brothers were ar
rested in the raid on a variety of charges 
including resisting arrest, assulting a 
police officer and owning a rat launcher 
without a license.
Fifteen other brothers and five LCB 
agents were injured in the raid. They 
were taken to local hospitals and most 
have been released. One LCB agent is 
still in the hospital in critical condition 
after being hit in the face by a rabid rat.
CMI CEO Richard Cyrat held a news 
conference on Monday to discuss the 
raid. According to Cyrat, This is the 
second time in five months that the LCB 
has violated Carnegie Mellons privacy 
under the feable excuse of enforcing 
state law. How often do we have to ask 
them to respect that privacy and let us 
take care of underage drinking our
selves? Personally, I do not even believe 
it is a problem on this campus. There are 
corporation police officers outside the 
fraternity parties every week and we 
have never had an alcohol related zr *,st 
except when the LCB butts in. I suspect 
entrapment 
Cyrat announced that he has hired the 
law firm of Lych, Eet, and Steele to 
represent the fraternity members ar
rested. Cyrat explained that I do not 
neccesarily approve of what they [the 
Piccard brothers] did but it seems a little
extreme to bring them up on charges 
over something so minor as a flying rat. 
After all, nobody was killed and a lot of 
these guys are going to be applying for 
jobs soon.
We would hate to see them turned 
down just because a fraternity party got 
a little out of hand. It is also in the 
interests of the corporation to help these 
students. We need them to become suc
cessful so that they can come back in 25 
years and contribute money for the Stu
dent Center.
.ano 3TBI bfiB ymmoM .sno stb I brus \ mmoM
Bore claims that by holding a newspaper up 
to a mirror, the subliminal messages can be 
read.
.boos zi fxxri amlDI .boog zi bool amlDI
When asked about these subliminal mes
sages, I. N. Print, President of the Newspapers 
for the Metric System, stated Thats ridicu
lous.. bionH .bionH Newspapers are as pure as 
apple pie.
Power planned 
to be on all week
Metaphysical Plant announced last week that 
power will unexpectedly be on all this week. 
This white-out, the third this semester, is nec
essary to allow Metaphysical Plant to find the 
emergency lighting system on campus.
Administration officials dont expect the 
white-out to disturb students. They may be 
shocked, but we dont predict any problems 
with keeping the power on for a full week, 
commented Director of Metaphysical Plant 
Vick Carlucci.
Free South Africa...
In every box of Fruit Loops
Student pub changes to striptease club
By AIRHEAD PETERBILT
Natrat Mangling Editor
Last week, in an unpreceedented move, 
ScotchGuard announced its conversion to a 
striptease club, changing its name to 
CrotchGuard. Bought out by Penthouse mag
nate Bob Guccione, the establishment will 
continue to be run by students, and will feature 
Carnegie Mellon, Inc. co-eds as its perform
ers.
College of Line Arts Dean Macrame Bikini 
expressed a desire to integrate the club into the 
colleges curriculum. I feel the strip tease
experience would be helpful to furthering the 
professional aspect of our students. It will give 
them a real feeling of what to expect once they 
graduate. A minor in Sleazy Nightclub Per
formance is also planned to be part of the 
curriculum next year in an effort to add to the 
practical professional focus of the college.
We hope to draw a bigger crowd from the 
surrounding areas and increase our profit 
said the Crotch Guard manager. Bob is also 
planning to use the club as an hunting ground 
for his new magazine, Studymate, which fea
tures young geniuses and is targeted at an
vVCCvCCvXYCvv NNef \ vvC*. vwv^ C1. \ OX *>>>..
Its a llama; Its a totem pole; Its our very own exhibitionist, Perversions EditorSkid 
Rose, giving his all and displaying his legs at the opening of CMIs CrotchGuard.
intellectual audience. The magazine will 
include, by special arrangement with CMI, 
provocative photos of the exposed innards of 
an Anthrax workstation, as well as a Geeks of 
the Week feature of familiar Epidemic 
Computing employees.
Carnegie Mellon, Inc., is currently negotiat
ing with Guccione to publish the magazine in 
an electronic format over the Anthrax net
work. The magazine would offset the cur
rently available Anthrax.picture.nudes raster 
images published over the network. When 
asked for comment about the move, CEO of 
Carnegie Mellon, Inc., Richard Cyrat, would 
only say, Uh, um, ah  research.
There are rumors of further negotiations with 
Ted Turner to produce a weekly television 
show featuring the club to air on Turners 
network. Corporation officials hope the show 
would help change the image of CMI students 
as hopeless hackers. Students are skeptical 
about the ability of the club to find suitable 
performers. It seems like theyll have to 
lower the entrance requirements or else en
courage more cross registering with Pitt to get 
acts, conjectured one CMI student.
Dean Falter caves- in to pressure; adds s to name
By CLERIC L-TRYTOPHAN
Natrat Schmooze Editor 
Reading from a prepared statement at last 
Tuesdays Stupid Senate meeting, Dean of 
Stud Affairs Brad Falter announced that he 
was caving-in to public pressure and intends to 
add an s to his name.
Falter(s) denied rumors that the addition of 
the letter would force the lastt to be dropped 
from the word Whereisitt
A similar situation occurred three years ago 
when John-John Sargent-Shriver was added to 
the staff of the Corporation, prompting the 
hyphen to be dropped from Carnegie Mellon, 
Inc.
Falter(s) has been struggling with the cam
pus community for years over the prop spell
ing of his name. The campus publication Stu
pid Union as well as several student senators 
have insisted for years that the s should be 
part of Falter(s) name. Until last week, he 
maintained.

---------------------------------------------------

Bullshit
Is CMI merely another high-tech trailer park?
Carnegie Mellon: Incorporation or trailer park? You decide.
Spring, as they say, has sprung which means the annual 
Physical Plant campus beautification/chicken manure dissemi
nation campaign is just around the comer.
But as the weather gets warmer, the grass comes in and so do 
the flowers, the tornadoes, and the trailers.
Yep, thats right the trailers always start cornin in this time of 
year along with the tornadoes, and I think we can say for a surety 
that this summer will be no different that the last. Every year 
more and more trailers (get blown away) and temporary hous
ing (remember the temp housing some frats were put in) spring 
up and we at the Natrat would like to give the Cyrat and Co. the 
big thumbs up.
We think that people are too mired in old traditions like safe, 
STRONG permanent housing and that the trailers are just 
another step to modernizing the campus. Just like disposable 
tissue and disposable members of the presidential cabinet, the 
time has come for disposable offices. Think of the ease of 
adding new professors, and of getting rid of the old ones, just 
like the WIND. Before you know it there will be paper clothing 
too.
The destruction of the Dreck Field (too bad it won't be because 
of a T..T..TORNADO! HOO..HOO..HAA,HAAAAA...ahem) 
can even help us in our ever expanding manner of trailerdom. 
Instead of laying out more Grey Matter type stuff all we have to 
so is add more trailers. We should be able to get at least a good 
twenty or thirty in there if we try. We could double that number 
(CANT YOU JUST HEAR THE ROAR?) if we just get rid of 
the IM field too.
With all this new space for the trailers, it would be just a short 
time until we could convince everyone that the Cut is just 
wasted space and then we could even put more trailers on top of 
the trailers and use rickety metal stairways to connect them to
gether and then we could put trailers on top of CFA and Warner 
Hall and then.... Excuse us a moment while we hose down the 
editor. Sorry about that.
As I was saying, the move towards disposable buildings has 
been one that has been coming for many years. It would even fit 
into the most recent Master Plan. Not only are trailers dispos
able, but if we put the whole campus into trailers we could just 
drive the thing down to the new site in Nicaragua.
As a leader of society, it is CMIs responsibility to continue 
this great adventure into the future. The Anthrax computer 
system was the first step and this is just another on the way to 
a modem campus.
We lied
The above is not the official opinion of the Natrat Editorial 
Board.
That was only the opinion of one person. Our esteemed 
Artnstuff Editor, a certain renegade Grunt N. Groanmichael, 
snuck that in because he is obsessed with tornadoes. Rest 
assured, he is in shock therapy and is doing juuuust fine!
We arent as happy about the trailers as Grunt is. As you know, 
trailers are notorious for attracting tornadoes. We, the rest of us, 
dont like tornadoes that much, but we didnt feel like changing 
the editorial because it fit so well.
In fact, you might say that the people who live in trailer parks 
are kind of screwy. Would you want to live somewhere that will 
inevitably attract Hells fury from the sky?
Leading expert in trailerology, the study of those that live in 
trailers, John F. Winnebago said that Da people dat lives in 
trailers are crazy. Dose people are nuts. Really, really wacko. 
Yknow? If dey had some brains they would live in nice safe 
recreational vehicles, like Winnebagos.
We agree with this expert (sort of); we at the Natrat feel that 
the trailers are a common danger to all students and should be 
replaced with nice, safe Winnebagos. This will insure another 
healthy year for all.
OK how did that sound? Sounded good. Do you think theyll 
buy it? I dont know. Hey wait a minute is he still typi...
mappMr
Why Epidemic Computing is so screwed up
Editor:
This is in response to recent ques
tions surrounding Epidemic 
Computings policies which have 
recently been voiced, spoken, writ
ten or electronically relayed, within 
and upon the Carnegie Mellon cam
pus and its auxiliary satellites 
(Meltin Institute and so forth). I feel 
that it is my duty to respond to these 
questions, due to their timeliness 
and recentness. Henceforth, my 
clarification of Epidemic Comput
ing policy, as it stands.
It is important that such discussion 
be generated, because it is the very 
backbone of academia and freedoms 
contained therein, that being the 
freedom to discuss rationally what is 
relevant, germane, and pertaining to 
that which happens to or by any 
other means affects the community 
within an academic setting.
It pleases me to no foreseeable end 
to bear witness to such dynamic inReader asks: What is the true purpose of life?
Editor:
What is the true purpose of life? 
Reader
Freshman, CIT
Pres. Cyrat explains the true purpose of life
Editor:
Research.
Dicky Cyrat
CEO, Emporer and First Lady, 
Carnegie Mellon, Inc.------
teractions communication-wise be
tween members of this community 
as those which have recently taken 
place over the past few weeks. Yes, 
indeed.
For this reason, as well as others I 
fear I havent the time to embroider 
on, I am writing this response. You 
see, Epidemic Computing is a big 
operation. Verrry big. And for me to 
go into all the wheres and whys and 
whatfomots would simply be asking 
too much, both of myself and my 
audience. Therefore, allow me if 
you will an abbreviated explanation 
of our procedural operations.
Let me first, however, reiterate my 
position with regard to campus-wide 
discussion. Its great. Keep it up, 
kids.
I hope that I have clarified our
position with regard to the distur
bances. After all, Epidemic Com
puting is here to serve you, the stu
dent body, and certainly the last 
undertaking we would hope to find 
ourselves in would be one of decep
tion and hedgehogging. Discussing 
this in a rational, open forum (such 
as the Natrats) is a major step to
wards better understanding on all 
behalfs. If any of you find my expo
sition not quite sufficient enough, 
please feel free to send me mail at 
btAh@cmu.edu.ECfu. I would be 
deeply honored to discuss this issue 
further.
Bris Thyroid
Second Deputy Assistant to the 
Vice-Director,
Epidemic Computing
Its a jooooke!
For Gods sake, its only a joke.
Do not sue this man. The Natrat is a parody; it is meant only as 
humor. Please dont sue him. How could he possibly explain it to 
his mother? She had such high hopes for him... Look, hes already 
started to shake. Dont you think youve done enough damage 
already? If youre feeling guilty and really want to repent, please 
send money to the Snarl Barnyard Legal Defense Fund, care of 
this paper. And help spread the word that The Natrat is just in jest.

---------------------------------------------------

April 5,1988The NatratPage 5
# Buchwald gets stomped
By ED MEESE
We gotta get this Buchwald guy! Im tired 
of his Armageddon cracks, Robertson 
shouted at me as he slammed my office door.
Calm down, Pat. Im tired of his Pipeline 
and Wedtech cracks too but we have to be 
careful, I said as I 
raised my head from
# my desk and rubbed 
the sleep from my 
eyes.
I mean, this is a per
fect job for the CIA but 
theyre still all shook 
up about Irangate. We 
need help from a 
higher power...
# You mean Oral 
Roberts?
No, no, noGods 
still sore with him be
cause he raised that 8 
mil.
But I thought God wanted him to raise that 
money?
Not really. I heard Jim Bakker say God 
f really wanted him to fail so that He could take 
over Oral Roberts University.
Ok, Ed, that sounds reasonable to me. But 
that still hasnt solved our problem. How are 
we going to get Buchwald?
I dont know  wait a minute, I know a few 
Iranians who owe me big. And theyre real 
quiet
I thought you said you didnt have anything 
f to do with the Iranians?
I lied. Its no big deal. I turned my head, a 
few papers were shredded and I never have to 
wait in a gas line again.
Im impressed, Ed. But the Iranians are a 
little too messy for me.
Yeah, I see your point They might turn it 
into a big religious war and wipe out a city. 
Back to square one. I got it! Didnt you say 
once you have a hotline to God? You can pull 
a few strings and get a thunderbolt retargeted. 
What do you say, Pat? Its simple and we keep 
our hands clean.
No dice. After my 
poor showing on Super 
Tuesday, I havent 
been able to get past 
Gods secretary. 
Shit
My sediments ex
actly. But, I did hear 
one of Jesses aides 
bragging about how 
hes been talking to 
God a lot lately and 
ever since Michigan 
Hes been talking back. 
Maybe we could get 
him to help.
Not aprayer, Pat. Jacksons becoming areal 
candidate now and I dont think hed do any
thing to mess that up.
All right then, if we cant get God, it looks 
like well have to go over His head.
Of course! Reagan. Why didnt I think of 
him? He owes me too. I had enough on him and 
Ollie to sell them each down the river for 20 
years after the Iran-Contra fiasco. He wont 
think anything of rubbing out one nosey re
porter, I said as I dialed my direct number to 
the Oval Office.
As I hung up the phone, I knew we were beat. 
Sorry, Pat The President says all the Marines 
are busy in Central America.
Ed Meese is the U.S. Attorney General, and 
a damned fine American who hasnt done 
anything wrong.
New York has one. So do London, 
LA and New Orleans.
Now Pittsburgh does too.
Sofb Mok
IBSlUS
Featuring the finest in pleasant 
listening and easy-to-digest food.
5000 Forbes Ave. (formerly the Faculty Club)
FRI. HAPPY HOUR 5  7 pm: FREE HORS DOURVES AND 
EFFERDENT, GERITOL or MAALOX .50 per shot
tinGanp twMld
Keep the stinkinCommies outta baseball
By BOMBUS SLIME
There seems to be a lot of confusion over 
the budget deficit. These dumb liberals 
seem to think that the problem is with the 
military budget Cut military spending! 
these pinkos cry; 
what idiots.
They whine that 
were spending all 
of this money to 
kill commies. Well, what the hell is wrong 
with that. What good are the Russkies? 
They only buy out wheat if we buy it at 50% 
off, theyve held Eastern Europe hostage 
for 40 years, and now they want to take over 
baseball.
Thats right nothing is sacred anymore. 
The party of Lenin is now trying to become 
the next Murderers Row for real. They sent 
observers to Florida to watch the Los 
Angeles Dodgers in Spring Training.
Why, you ask? It seems that baseball is 
now an Olympic sport, and the Russkies 
feel that they have to be the best at that too. 
In a couple of years, if were not careful, 
Americas National Pastime could be 
dominated by the Moscow Comrades and 
the Peking Peoples Collective!
It shouldnt be a surprise. After all, for 
years fifth-column Trotskyites have been 
rampant in Boston and Cincinnati. They 
called themselves sportsmen, the so-called 
Big Red Machine that held the National 
League West at bay during the mid-1970s.
Its the same thing no matter where you 
go. Subsersives always try to capture a 
countrys young. Look at Nicaragua, they 
first took over the Ministry of Education. 
So here they cant get a Cabinet spot so
they do the next best thing, they become the 
heroes of the young.
Worse still, were paying for this to hap
pen. Look at the huge salaries these KGBtrained athletes are getting. Where do you 
think the money goes? If you guess El Sal
vador, youre absolutletly right 
What can we do? First off, its time that we 
start putting money into American teams 
like the Yankees and Braves. Second, boy
cott all Pinko teams, not only the Reds and 
Red Sox, but foreigners like the Padres.
Weve seen it too many times before. Hot
beds of baseball like Cuba, Afghanistan, 
and China have all been held by the Red 
Scourge. If the liberals have their way, we 
could be next 
The Pentagons budget currently contains 
such vital items as the new M-l cork-filled 
bat, the B-l scuffball, and Trident vaselinelined cap. We need these vital weapon sys
tems to keep our baseball leagues free and 
strong.
However, such liberal swine like Bob 
Dole and Jack Kemp want to cut such items. 
A waste of money, they whine, or we 
cant afford them, they claim, well bull.
Write to your Senators, in crayon if you 
have to. Tell them that youre firmly behind 
Gen. Billy Martin and his efforts to make 
baseball safe for Americans again. We 
should never have to watch our backs when 
were running from first to second base. 
Otherwise who knows, maybe getting 
caught stealing will send you to Siberia 
instead of the dugout 
These are trying times, and we must do 
whatever it takes to maintain our leadership 
role in the world and the National League.
SknRaMako saken
Isnt life just really beautiful?
By THE INSPIRING STAFF 
Yknow, when you think about it, God is 
really beautiful. If it werent for him, we 
wouldnt have such splendiforous things 
around us, like nature. Nature is very beauti
ful. Especially grass, fresh green grass crush
ing gently under the pitter-patter footsteps of a 
newborn taking his first cautious steps on that 
tempestuous journey called life. Yeah, thats 
really beautiful. Kids are so beautiful, espe
cially when theyre little and innocent to the
wicked ways of sin and evil and fraternity 
parties and inebriated trollops with very large
Natr5t7.0 at pag. 23.
The Natrat
Editor-in-Grief_________... Snarl Barnyard
Mangling Editor_________Airhead Peterbuilt
Money Grubber_______________Rusty Pelican
Schmooze Editor________Clerk L-Trytophan
Creatures Editors_______Judy the Barbarian
Louden Piercing
Spurts Editor___________..Schecky Gershwin
Spurts Wench______ __  Gnatsie DePest
Perversions Editor_______________Skid Rose
Photo Asshole Editor_______ Pansy Carressme
Darkroom Lover_____Al break out The Towel
Artnstuff Editor_____Grunt N. Groanmkhael
Illiterate Editor__________My she 11 Overflows
Unproductive Manager_________Rustin Razor
Mis teak Editor  _____________  Dock Levee
Natrat Groupies___________________________
Bruised Cassarok Squeal Greenplum
Brew Swiller Markd Blemish
John Frkdham Stue Pidd
Th. Narrar 5s rh. atly para0y warrh r.a05tg 5t rh. gr.ar.r P5rrsb7rgh 
ar.a, p7bl5sh.0 att7ally by a small bat0 af 0atg.ra7sly I sr70.trs 
fram Cart.g5. M.llat. ItNarparar.0. Th. Narrar . 05srr5b7r.0 ar ta 
Nasr ra m.mb.rs af rh. 7t5v.rsfNy Namm7t5ry (b7r rh.t aga5t, w. ktaw 
wh.r. ya7 Iv.. sa 5f w. 0.N50. w. watr mat.y, w.'l hav. ta prabl.m 
g.rr5tg 5r). Ir 5s pr5tr.0 by B.rrt. at0 h5s 0atN5tg .lv.s 5t rh. 0.a0 af 
t5ghr. Th. B7N.hH app.ar5tg ar rh. b.g5tt5tg af rh. ap5t5at s.Nr5at 
5s rh. aff5N5al ap5t5at af Th. Narrar .05rar5al baar0 (aNr7aly, I's rh. 
E05rar-5t-gr5.fs ap5t5at, b7r h. 0a.st'r watr al r5. blam..) Cal7mt* 
ar. rh. ap5t5ats af 5t05v507al a7rhars wha ar. tar t.N.ssar5ly rar5atal 
at0 7s7ally Nampl.r. w.at5.s wha masr7rbar. 5t p7MN r.srraams 
b.rw..t Nlass.s Urr.r ra rwE0Har Natra5ts rh. ap5t5ats af 5t0M0- 
7al a7rhars wha ar. 7s7ally m.mb.rs af Th. N.rr.r .05rar5al baar0 
wha w.r. ral0 ra fM spaN. A Urr.r 5tr.t0.0 lar p7b5Nar5at m7sr b. 
s5gt.0 5t blaa0 at0 ItNl70. rh. wr5r.r's a00r.ss, phat. t7rrra.r. 
s.x7al pr.f.r.tN. at0 QPA far v.rf5Nar5at at0 .xparrar5at. Nam. 
w5ll b. 7s.0 5t aty matt.r w. 0amt w.ll pl.as., at0 arXhars ar5l b. 
q7ar.0 a7r af Natr.xr fr..ly. Th. Narrar r.s.rv.s rh. r5ghr ra Nat
0.ts.. r.j.Nr ar r.wr5r. aty l.rr.r ar Nal7mt. Slat0.rr5ghr C 1988 by 
Th. Nafrar Th. .05rar5al baar0 r...rv.s rh. r5ghr ra w5rhhal0 framp7bINarat aty Napy Ir 0..ms 7rrfrr far p7MNarlat.
Office: Skibop Basement (yup, we own the whote thing) 
(412) ALLLES Mailing address: The Natrat / Carnegie 
Melton, Inc / Pittsburgh, PA 15213 Al rights reserved, 
unless you find something funny. Library of Congress 
ISSN *: 0690-5974 ...

---------------------------------------------------

Want to hobnob with great Americans like Paul Simon?Want to visit Iowa?Want to interview administration big shots? g;- 
The Schmooze Section Wwffr'Mf
Mailing instructions highlight seminar
The Corporation-Wide Seminar Series presents Gradual School: Slipping the 
Hot Tubesteak Application into the Academic Tupperware. Pictured are Course 
Mastermind Lasta Minute and Associate Director Justin Time. Time, standing at 
podium, lectures on the merits of Express Mail Overnight Delivery, the mailing 
instructions on the screen behind him.
Page 6The NatratApril 5,1988
Minutes of Stupid Senate 
Meeting: Stardate 40123.12
Senators Awake: Heavy, Burger, Tennis, 
Dildo (Ex-officio), Brazier, Hollow, Blueberg, Houseman, Anti-Christina, Barrack, 
Combread, Devine, Boo, Muckeree, Pavlov, 
Tao, Cuban, Hirohito, Stubble, Trick, Vaserline, Zapped, Rung, de Tong, Chainmail, 
Robocheck (Ex-officio), Salmon.
1. The meeting was called in an order to 
LessPizza at 7:10 pm. It arrived at 10:03 pm.
1. Approval of Previous Minutes.
2. Because the minutes were longer than Les 
Miserabies, they were neither read nor ap
proved. Senator Hollow said these are a 
book.
11. Audience Participation
12. Other than The Natrat reporter, the audi
ence consisted of 27 crickets, and the Spring 
Carnal chairman who laughed during the en
tire meeting.
III. Report from Committees
a. SDC: Karen Pavlov. No report
b. IFC. No busts. No arrests. No report
c. Student Affairs: Brad Falter(s) changed 
his name and attempted to get upset but no one 
noticed.
d. Chairperson: Erica Heavy.
5. I met with Cyrat this week. Hes a lot 
shorter in person. Have you ever tried to take 
a picture of him and make his eyes look like 
theyre open?
e. Academic Affairs: Lisa Anti-Christina
20. We were able to stop the 7:30 am exams
in the Melancholy of Science. They will be at 
6:30 am from now on.
f. Campus Affairs: Ben Cornbread
8.1 finally saw Cyrat walking on campus this 
week. You know, hes a lot faster in person.
g. Funding and Recognition: Camel 
Muckeree
45. We telephoned the Apathy Club and 
discussed their budget Ive never met them in 
person.
h. Public Relations: Laurel Hollow
21. You know, The Natrat Business Man
ager is taller in person?
i. Rules: Albert Blueberg
11. Id like to make a motion...
Sit down Albert.
4. You know, Paul Simons bow tie is even 
bigger in person.
IV. Old Business: None.
V. New Business
3. How can you have new business, when 
you dont have any old business?
VI. Announcements:
12. Tomorrow marks the 199th anniversary 
of the first time the U.S. Senate achieved a 
quorum.
13. Friday is former First Lady Betty Fords 
70th birthday.
73. This coming Saturday is composer, pian
ist and mathematician Tom Lehrers 60th 
birthday.
34. Do people look at the numbers at the 
beginning of each line?
23. Friday is also Mule Day.
78. Senate Vaserline pointed out that com
munist countries celebrate Mule day.
10. Everyone asked who cares about Mule 
day anyway? -
42. Senator Boo asked What is Mule Day?
40. With no further business and due to relativistic effects, the meeting was adjourned at 
4:32 pm, hours before it started.
Carnegie Mellon Incorporated
1988 Dicks Son Prize in Science
Richard M. Cyrat, Jr. 
Student, CM I Childrens School
Spectographic Interpretations of the Nuclear Socializing Institution
4:30 p.m. 
Friday, April 1,1988 
Whereisitt Room, Skibop Hall 
Carnegie Mellon Incorporated
For the sixth consecutive year in a row, Richard M. Cyrat, Jr. has captured Carnegie Mellon Incorporateds prestigious Dicks Son prize. Cyrat, who entered the Childrens School last September, was chosen as this years recipient after the selection committee (Pres. Cyrat and his lovely wife, Bubba) saw his stunning renderings of the primary American institution - the family. Dicky Jr.s crayon representations of the patriarchial agency were a major breakthrough, according to Dr. Cyrat. We now have a clearer understanding of this great societys foundation, something weve desparately needed. Until Dickys brilliant conceptualization, further study was out of the question. But now, Im happy to report that research will commence immediately. Dicky is a credit to our nation, and especially the fine family that raised him.
Free and Open to the Public

---------------------------------------------------

I WITHIN I
BLOW JOB__________PageP3
Kinda fits right in with the theme of it all, 
doesnt it?
SOMEDAY IN DH2210..Page P2
Not this year, not next year... but maybe 
someday well see these fine films
Sights and sounds of natures creatures: Dick, the Schenley Park Nature Walk 
Mascot, here browsing underneath his very own traffic sign.Bear left on walk
PITTSBURGH In a substantial enhancement to the Carnegie Mellon, Inc. grounds, 
Incorporate President Dick Cyrat this week dedicated the Schenley Park Nature Walk, a 
hilly, .8 mile long trail along Tech, Frew and Schenley Drive. The Nature Walk runs over 
the former Sweepstakes course, making buggy rolls prey to all manner of wild beasts.
In recognition of Cyrats noble contribution, park officials named the park mascot Dick. 
Dick, a620-pound black bear, immediately strove to emulate his namesake by mauling the 
sculpture professor and devouring a good sized chunk of Dreck Field. Dick s normal daily
diet? A thousand bucks in tuition funds.
The Nature Walk should provide substantial opportunity for perversion, as it is lined with 
leafy glades and isolated cul-de-sacs. Prime spawning grounds, says Dick.
The Natrat
ERVERSION
TITILATION  AROUSAL  ILLUSTRATIONS  WANT ADS
.Trauma Dept, to wing King sing thing
By SKID ROSE
Natrat Perversions Editor 
As the forty-seventh main stage production 
of the year, the Trauma Department will be 
presenting the classic musical The King and 
I at the Krusty Theatre sometime in the dis
tant future. Auditions were held this week for 
(fc-he leading roles and supporting cast.
It is believed that the Krusty stage will be 
enlarged with illegally obtained milk crates to 
facilitate the staging of the show, and that the 
Trauma Dept will be employing real Siamese 
peasants to perform in the chorus in the inter
est of increasing believability.
Noted actor Peter OToole stood out in a 
crowd of many hopeful unknowns for the lead 
I Ipart of the King of Siam. The Trauma Depart
ment turned their heads to OToole because 
he just doesnt got it According to Trauma 
Queen Elisabeth Orelda, We cant afford 
prima donnas in this department. Mr. OToole 
is a fine performer, but we really wanted a 
student for the role. Besides, hes got too 
much hair.
In a related story, it was revealed by Trauma 
fOept. spokesmen that Trauma Proffesional 
Melted Weirdo will once again be misled into 
believing that hes running things. In fact, 
although Weirdo has at times in the past been 
convinced that he was Trauma King, Orelda 
has set the record straight. We all know who  s 
really in charge here, said Orelda, but weve 
decided that destroying Melteds illusions 
would be too cruel. Weirdo will continue to
l^>e snookered as long as necessary, which will Auditions for the Trauma Dept, production of The King and I were teeming with Siamese hopefuls. Peter OToole, center, wearing 
be until his retirement. hat, was denied the role.
Fivefivefivefivedolhearsix? Lurid Mattel, Pittsburgh Cacophony Condenser, filling 
in as auctioneer for the Heinz 57 Hall fundraiser this week.Heinz 57 in debtors seventh heaven
PITTSBURGH In a desperate attempt to 
raise operating funds, the Heinz 57 Hall held a 
celebrity, up-and-coming, and comparatively 
unknown auction this week. On the block were 
a number of interesting items, including the 
orchestral performers.
Violinists were prime material, going for up 
to $45 in a pinch. The woodwinds fared less 
well, fetching less than $3 a pop, and were, in 
some cases (notably the obese obnoxious 
oboeist), completely unsaleable.
An odd contrast ensued when the first violin
ist was purchased for $32 and refused to leave 
his instrument, a Strad valued at $420 thou
sand and already sold at separate auction. The 
problem was resolved when the owner of the 
violin agreed to purchase its violinist at a dis
count price.
After the instrumentalists were carted off, 
the more important proceedings began. Coor
dinated by the peerless Lurid Mattel, the auc
tion block was topped by a remarkable assort
ment of first-class priveliges.
First to sell was the right to slug the sym
phony patrons who persit in coughing during 
the quiet parts of Beethovens 9th, which went 
for an unprecedented 4 million dollars and 17 
cents.
Next up was an arson permit for incinerating 
bulky fur coats which tend to block the sound 
from the upper balcony. Despite loud protest 
from the conservationist lobby, the permit was 
provided by a boot-licking Fire Marshal with
Not continued at all, so lough noogles

---------------------------------------------------

April 5,1988The NatratPage P2
SOMEDAY IN DH 2210
Thursday  Godzilla meets Emanuelle 
Get out your Kama Sutra looseleafs! The queen of soft pom meets the king of the 
lizards. Hot action directed by the one and only Frederico Fellatio. Watch Godzilla as 
he stomps his feet on buildings, waves his arms at planes, and sticks his...well, you get 
the picture.
Starring: Steamy Hotbox, The Big Iguana 
Times: 36,24,34,82 (Godzillas)
Friday  Do it with Sudden Impact from Any Loose Way you Can Pale Ride 
And you thought Hint Westwood played every type of hard-ass possible. Flint plays a 
priest who used to be a police detective and a drill seargant and owned a pet monkey. 
He saves a beautiful woman from five rapists, three murderers, two bible salesmen, and 
a Eureka vacuum cleaner. The entire population of Peoria, Illinois, volunteers to play 
scumbags that Flint deals with, and he kills every one of them in the movie.
Starring: Flint Westwood, Combinatione Locke 
Times: Go ahead. Pick a day.
Saturday  Rockhead Xx 
The saga of the squared circle hero continues. Rockhead Bubbleblower trains his 
grandson to fight Apollo  the god Apollo, not Apollo Greed. Bubbleblower has come 
to his grandsons aid because his old manager, his father and Bubbleblowers son, was 
killed in a fight with Blubber Fange. Confusion is caused at the final fight scene when 
Rockhead does his classic call from his wife Hadrian. Problem is, everyone in the arena 
is named Hadrian, and the ring is stormed and Bubbleblower is sent to the hospital. The 
making of Rockhead Xx+1 will begin from the hospital.
Starring: The Jester Hambone, Tell ya Sire.
Times: VI, VII, X, XII
'S
Sunday  Gidget goes to Caligula s Rome 
Daily Thrills character meets those fun-loving guys from Rome, led by the good-time 
guy himself, Caligula. Watch Gidget as she frolics through fun and games with all 
kinds of imaginable objects. Caligula and his friends also think up all kinds of fun 
games they can play with Gidget Gidget has fun with boys, toys, girls, and even 
animals. Talcum Me Down plays that coll guy Caligula who falls for Gidget and wants 
to make her his girl  and shows her his love in a touching scene with an elephant. 
Family good times for all. Directed by G-rated king Bob Sleazione.
Starring: Daily Thrills, Talcum McDown, Peter thTool.
Times: 24:27,24:31.
Compiled by MARKD BLEMISH
WCRT TOP 10 
SOFTWARE PACKAGES
PROGRAMSYSTEMCOMPANY
1. Nethack/RogueVariousP.DTEpyx
2. Lightspeed CMacintoshTHINK Tech Inc.
3. WordMacintosh/IBMMicrosoft
4. 1-2-3IBM and Comp.Lotus Corp.
5. MessagesAndrewITC/AMSG/IBM
6. EZAndrewITC/IBM
7. ScribeVariousUnipress/CMU
8. Flight SimulatorMacintosh/IBMMicrosoft
9. EmacsVariousUnipress
10. KermitVariousP.DyColumbia U.
WCRT  RADIO FOR THE ELECTRON!
^r88 ; 3 F"Mfl L
There will be a Perversions Staff Meeting in the Natrat Office at 8 pm tonight. All various perversions, 
neuroses, and people who are just confused, are welcome. Do you belong among Perversions?
Included are:
Feltching
Sadism
Masochism
Py ron ecrobestial ity
Killme Cafe Dining
Cigarette Smoking
Alcoholism
Drug Addiction
Leather
Chains
Cannibalism/Oral Sex
Sodomy
Warmongering
Whoremongering
Wargaming
Prostitution
Pimping/Solicitation
Panhandling
Doo-wop Singing
Journalism
Hacking
Coughing/Choking/Sneezing
Masturbation
Mastication
Matriculation
Sublimation
Evangelism
Gazorching
Embezzling
Ailuronecroeosagoraphilia 
Child Abuse 
Adult Abuse 
Old Person Abuse 
Animal Abuse
Young woman balances three-tiered sets of 
brandy glasses filled with water on forehead, 
hands and feet, then in a series of intricate 
movements, rolls over.
Working for the Housing Office 
Working for the Psych Department 
Working for The Natrat
Working 
Loud Sleeping 
Loud Eating 
Loud Breathing 
Loud Sex
Used Prophylactic Throwing
Subtle and Terrifying Harassment
Smegma Collection and Refining
Rugby Playing
Architecture
Architorture
Grapefruit
Other kinds of fruit
Being a fruit
Writing in Public
Performing Art
Impromptu Aria Singing
Impersonating an Officer
Impersonating a Comedian
Impersonating DeForest Kelley
(Hes dead, Jim!)
Knife Fighting
Fighting Knives
Banana Fighting
Fighting Bananas
Video Addiction
Mongolian Cluster Fucking
and Global Thermonuclear War
Do you have what we want? Come on join Perversions today!

---------------------------------------------------

Page P3The NatratApril 5,1988
.Blow Job Blind Porcupine Dance Fu!
By BLOW JOB BRIGGS
Yknow folks, that Tony Rambell guy is 
startin to bug me. The man is tryin to get rid 
of all the Drive-In Ballets of America all by 
his lonesome and now he even has his sister 
Petula helpin him. Those two are goin to 
Drive-In Ballets and trying to tear em down 
^ and put in Mul-tie-plex movie theaters.
We have to stop this communist expansion 
that will destroy our way of life and put our 
children in schools that teach Russian 
instead of American English. If you are 
interested I want you to rite me here in 
Texas and I will send you Tony and Petulas 
phone number so you can call them.
Actually the number is (412) 555-JERK 
^ (dont want you ta waste a quarter when you 
can be buggin them!).
On to more important things.
I got these tickets for a new ballet that was 
called The Blind Knife-Throwing Porcu
pines that was sure to please. It was written 
by those guys from Dayona that gave us the 
ballet with Basketball Case. That was the 
one where the half inflated basketball ate 
^ people every time they tried to blow it up. 
Any how with a winner like that this next 
one shoulda been a great time.
So I just went on down to the Benzedrine 
Center. I gotta tell ya about this place. It 
huge and the stage is done all in formica so 
that all the splatter can be easily hosed down 
into the orchestra pit. And the kids can go 
and play if they get a little tired. Drive-In 
Ballet is fun for the whole family now.
Any ways, I get down there in my strechpickup and they done flew in these yankee 
boys from New Hampshire specially for the 
Ballet  the Manchester Cacophony 
condensed by Sum Ti Guy  it was great. 
Before the ballet even started Lurid Mattel 
came out with the Pittsburgh Cacophony. A 
fight started and soon both Cacophonys 
were too tin and rootin and makin sounds
 like you never heard before. There wus tons 
of violin fu and oboe fu and a few dismem
bered trombones on both sides. Then both 
suddenly stopped and the Condensers stood 
up and took bows! The announcer then said 
that the piece was called Killin Condens
ers and had been ritten by the Dayona boys 
in honor of the premiere of the Blind
AIMnnvir\\hi.W V V1
LOOKING FORA CHALLENGE?
 Learn to name all 97 
spiritiually relevant crystals
 Decipher cryptic 
messages encoded on 
Windham Hill albums
Find out the placement of 
all seven chakras and how 
to identify them
Interviews are now being held in the 
CMI Displacement Office. For more 
information, contact Sgt. Brahma 
Rama Brouhaha, xHEAL.
The New Age 
military  fighting 
Communism through 
psychic ability.
A//7- FARCE
Knife-Throwin Porcupines. Im tellin you, 
that there piece was enough for me, but the 
night was still young.
The lights dimmed and both orchestras 
began a merry little tune of Bolero and the 
audience sighed cuz we thought that we was 
in for a bunch of old boring schtick that has 
been the current fad in Drive-In Ballet.
I hate to say this but the Blind KnifeThrowin Porcupines was a total let down. 
The plot was old. A bunch of Aliens come 
down and drop a load of star junk cm a back 
forest and then the Porcupines turn into 
slobberin heaving masses of animal ferosity. 
They then procede to go into town and cut 
up the men and play with the women.
It did have a few unredeeming qualities 
that just didnt cut it. This has some of the 
best soft-pom that Pittsburgh didnt come up 
with when the mutated porcupine leader got 
it on with the leading lady Wanda Wilkins 
backstage. This had to be the best Gratuitous 
Sex Scene That Didnt Take Place.
The Dayonas also lost all shock ending 
surprise when the aliens came back after the 
intermission and dropped cigarette butts all 
over the stage. This came directly out of 
their first movie where the basketball gets
indigestion from eating a smoker. It was an 
inside joke that only a die-hard Drive-In 
Ballet fan would recognize.
The dancers work with the stainless steel 
shoes was also less than desired. Cuts were 
way too clean and hardly any blood flowed 
at all. After all what kind of Drive-In Ballet 
can be good without some good bloody cuts.
The last thing that bothered me was that 
we could tell that those porcupines was 
carrying knives but they never showed how 
they was blind. And considerin that they cut 
up the flat girls before they even were close 
to them, it just didnt work for me.
On the other hand the show did have a lot 
of Gratuitous Animal Disfigurement early 
on as the Porcupines learn to use their 
knives. This was quickly followed by an 
onslaught of the Ballet chorus types in tight 
tights. This only insured some heavy duty 
cutting would be coming on as a lot of nonbreasted women came out to prove that they 
were simply knife-fodder for the Porcupines.
The most interestin part of the entire play 
was metamorphosis that took place on the 
part of Luana Lips. She starts out as one of 
those flat plain girls that should be killed 
early on but she is spared by the loving
glances of the King Porcer hisself, played by 
newcomer John J. John (guess what the J 
stand for, thats right, John) Jr. She becomes 
the usual submissive sex-fiend as expected 
but she swells from no-cup to D-cup after 
one of those great offstage sex scenes that 
the audience only gets to hear.
Believe it or not there are 104 breasts 
(mostly flat). 258 dead bodies. 53 assorted 
severed limbs from 12 different animals. 4 
blind knife-throwin porcupines. Alien 
littering. Porcupine phone sex (you gotta see 
it to believe). Clean goring Fu. Dismember
ment Fu. Gratutious flat girls. Gratuitous 
bloodless gore.
Drive-In Awards to Sum Ti Guy, Lurid 
Mattel, the Machester Cacaphony and 
Pittsburgh Cacophony for their brilliant 
rendition of Killing Condensers.
The only other Drive-In Award was for 
Luanda Lips and her ballooning breasts. 
After the audience has watched them grow 
she utters Oh my, where did these come 
from? Unfortunately, this is the best line in 
the ballet. Id give it one and half for 
chutzpah, but Blow Job says check it out 
only if you cant rent the video tape version 
of Slime-Gloopla Vomit Dances.
{<No matter 
how fake they 
are, Brad still 
loves to hear 
my orgasms*
, ..y ....... a. &M s

,;/y ' V 3 */
He misses your sweaty 
moans. You miss his empassioned coaching and helpful 
instructions. Even the bad 
ones. Thats one good reason 
to call long distance. TT&A 
Long Distance Service is 
another good reason. Be
cause it costs less than you 
think to hear your boyfriend 
start to squirm before you 
even open your mouth.
So whenever you miss his 
squeals and whispers, bring a 
smile to his face with TT&A. 
Reach out and fondle 
someone.*
Betsy Bimbo University of Pittsburgh  Class of 1990
iTT&A
The only choice.

---------------------------------------------------

Finally, Tin 
NUDE connect 
Pin-Up!
Research! 
Checks/Money 
Women with BIG mag
nets 1970
Trips to China
Teaching (eoa 
Bills 
Protests 
Spam 
Public appear 
Ottice hours

---------------------------------------------------

Cyral
Unters Research!)
13 io

---------------------------------------------------

United States* instructions
This public service announcement brought to you by.2. Peel off Backing
3. Don't Poke with 
Pencil
17tome of ihe 
retroactive birih 
control method"
including Puerto Rico
At Bob's, "We got you covered!"
Destined to sweep the nation, this alternative form of birth control is extremely effective when 
administered properly.
Please read the following instructions before "saddling up"
Who are these strange beings?
Their idea of stylish menswear involves "U.S. Enterpoop". Their desks, floors, 
and domiciles are covered with Coke cans. They seem to have gotten around 
the problem of what to do when you run out of clean laundry. They play with 
"seashells," but this can lead to "eunuchs" with a "lisp." The only girls they've 
touched in their lives can be sent through a fax machine. Perhaps the strangest 
thing of all... they've never used eyeliner.
You've seen them in Grey Matter. They live there. Who is "Pill lifer, Lord of the 
Undead"? Is "Blake 7" a dandruff shampoo?
Well, find out!
Take advantage of our new "Take a Hacker Geek to Lunch" program. Just fill out 
and send in the form below, and you'll be matched with an appropriate, hungry 
hacker geek*
"But Ill say the wrong things." No problem. With your lunch confirmation you'll 
receive a small pamphlet on lunch conversation phrases ("Yeah, I love what 
Captain Kirk said in Episode 115") and hacker vocabulary terms ("Van 
Neumann machine," "raster," "Miss April").
"But he'll freak when he sees sushi." A definite possibility. Watch yourself.
Ifs fun. It's easy. And itll come in handy when your dumbass agent lands you in 
"Revenge of the Nerds V: Nerds in the 'Burgh.
Male applicants pleas note: this is not to be used to try to pick up men. That is what cross
registering at Pitt is for.
[ ] Yes, sign me up. I'd like to take to lunch (circle one):
a Commuter Science major an Eliptical Engineer
an Eliptical/Commuter Engineering major
anyone who wears a Verbatim t-shirt and has impaired vision
[ ] No, Im still a little intimidated. I mean, these people don't even have 8-by10 glossies to distribute. Please send me more information.
Name:
Address:
Telephone:
Send to: Hackers for Lunch, Skibop Info Desk, Carnegie Mellon, Inc.
16 INCH SPAM LOAF $4.70 + tax
toppings: spam, spam, spam, spam, bacon n spam, spam 
egg sausage n spam, spam, spam, spam, spam, spam spam 
spam spam spam spam spam baked beans 'n spam, spam 
spam spam spam spam spam spam spam spam spam spam 
and spam, or lobster thermidor with a bearnaise sauce covered 
with shallots and diced truffles and a fried egg on top and spam.
#******#WEEKEND SPECIAL
candlelight trough for two $9.95 + tax


---------------------------------------------------

April 5,1988The NatratPage P7
Announcements
Richard M. Cyrat will have open office 
hours for students between 2 pm and 5 pm, in 
his office, 602 Warner Hall on Monday, April 
4,1988. Cyrat will not be in his office, but VP 
for Everything Lil* Elmer will be there (seeing 
as hes taken over the entire university). Stu
dents who wish to meet with the president 
should consider holding their breath for a long 
time. Prayer and fasting might help too, but 
dont count on it
Student Ombudsman will have open office 
hours for students to discuss just what the hell 
ombudsman means. Days and times avail
able for appointments are at the Skibop Disin
formation desk @xLIES.
An exhibition of photographs by Anne 
Fishbreath focusing on an American way of 
running over animals while on vacation. Many 
of the images were taken on U.S. Route 66 and 
Forbes Ave. Highlights of the show include 
multi-dimensional imagery of raccoons, 
squirrels, rabbits and a special series of Lassie, 
who was done in last August by two drunk 
guys in an El Camino. Hewlett Packard Gal
lery, CL A 1st floor, through March 22.
Wait a minute, that show has already ended. 
Your loss, toots.
Gordon Matter Clark. A retrospective 
exhibition of this conceptual physicist, organ
ized by the Museum of Contemporary Sci
ence, Chicago. Clark is best known for his 
breakthroughs in the study of Unified Field 
Theory, as it relates to ones state of consiousness. Carnegie Mellon Incorporated Science 
Gallery, 407 S. Craig St. Through April 10. 
Gallery Hours are 10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday 
through Friday; 11 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 
pm - 4 pm, Sunday.
Three Rooms without a Bathroom. Three 
guest curators were invited to each create a 
room of a house. Their only mandate was to
utilize works made in a craft medium within 
the context of the space, not including glass, 
steel, chrome, concrete, wood, fiberglass or 
polystyrene. No bathroom fixtures, either. 
Through April 3. The Society For Art in Crafts 
but Not in Bathrooms, 21st and Littleman 
Streets, The Strippers District. Gallery Hours 
are 10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday through Saturday;
1 pm - 4 pm, Sunday.
Roman Catholic Aviary. Celebrate birdwatching with good, clean folk on campus at 7 
pm, Saturday night and 10:30 am, Sunday 
morning, in the GSIA Auditorium. Daily 
watch begins at 12:30 pm, Monday through 
Friday, in CMIs Chapel (Skibop Rm. 139). 
For more information call 555-CHRP.
Is There Anyone Else Like Me On Cam
pus? Nope.
Cruel Science Center:
Laser Battles. 8 pm and 9:15 pm, Thursday 
through Sunday; and 3 pm, Saturday. Special 
Sunday Parents vs. children matinee, 2 pm. 
Prizes awarded for most blood shed and larg
estdiameter gap in body. For current team 
scores call 555-ZAP!.
Demons in the Sky. Guaranteed to frighten 
the dickens out of the little ones. Through 
April 22. Midnight, Monday through Wednes
day; midnight, Thursday and Friday; mid 
night, Saturday; and 1:15 pm, Sunday.
Sounds less-than-sensational. Permanent 
exhibit of homemade transistor and crystal 
radios at 1 pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wed
nesday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 
10 am - 9:30 pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 
pm, Sunday.
The Right Moves. Permanent exhibit that 
features safety tips for the kiddies, including 
why pennies make wonderful substitutes for 
fuses, why roller skates belong on the stairs 
and not in the toybox, and how much easier it
is to play an electric guitar if youre standing 
in a bucket of water. At 1 pm - 5 pm, Monday 
through Wednesday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, Thurs
day and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 pm, Saturday; 
and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Baiter Up. Permanent exhibit of histori
cally significant breakfast foods, still on their 
original griddles. 1 pm - 5 pm, Monday 
through Wednesday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, Thurs
day and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 pm, Saturday; 
and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Bio Corner. Make your own lethal virus, 
and take it home to show Mom and Dad. 1 pm
- 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Imagining the Imagination. Permanent 
hands-on exhibit of psychedelic substances 
that occur in nature. 1 pm - 5 pm, Monday 
through Wednesday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, Thurs
day and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 pm, Saturday; 
and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday. Plan to spend the 
whole day at this one.
Faulty Pendulum. Permanent exhibit 
showing how pointless it is for man to even 
think about perpetual motion machines. 1 pm
- 5 pm, Monday Through Wednesday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Observatory. High-powered telescope 
aimed at the North Side YWCA locker rooms. 
Friday evenings, weather and women permit
ting.
inEVITAble. Gripping drama of the wife of 
a South American ruler who realizes that free 
will is really nothing more than a pipe dream. 
The car chase through the Pampas scene is not 
to be missed. Playhouse Theatre Company. 
Tuesday through Saturday at 8 pm, Sunday at
2 pm and 7 pm. Through April 10. Tickets $6
- $14. For more information call 555-OHNO.
OX POOP
Barbara Walters: Im sorry Mr. Reagan, you had your rebuttal, and I just cut you off, because our time is going. You have a chance now for a rebuttal before your closing statement. Is that correct?Ronald Reagan: No. I might as well go with what 
I...BW: Do you want to go with your...?RR: I dont think so.BW: Do you want to wait? RR: I m all confused now.
Ronald Reagan: My fellow Americans, yesterday the Polish government, a military dicatatorship, a bunch of no-good lousy bums...
Ronald Reagan: It isabsolutely untrue that I am going to Peking...This country must not abandon its friends on Taiwan...
Carnefli&yMeUan, One. 'Department of Music 
ZPresenls
'The Carnegie Mellon Chamber ZPot Orchestra
JZnmud Spring Jling Concert
Cecilia Ceramic, 'Tommy Tuppervoare
Conductors
special guests: Maestro iidy rBovd and 
his 2000 flushes
KThursday, April 4, I88 
8:00 pm 
<Stflumni Concert HJathroom 
College of JZine Shirts 
Carnegie Mellon, One.
Dus Concert is free and Open to the ^PuUtc
Macram rAim, 'Dean Cajole [foam, Oiea
^liixiixKiixiiixxxiiMixKixKiiiixxiixxy;;
THE ALL NEW IMPROVED |
S INNOVATIVE HIGH-TECH S
CMI ID CARD
cy000000
mmmMlm^mM
............. 1    .................. .......

---------------------------------------------------

Are you afraid of computers?
Dont be embarrassed. We are, too. Thats why we developed the 
Abacus computer. Because, like you, we didnt want to have to 
learn all those high'tech geek terms like multi-tasking, raster' 
imaging, CPU and keyboard. We dont care about those things, 
and we dont see why you should, either.
But we dont want you to feel left behind. We have a machine 
that even an unenlightened technophobic slob like you can use. 
The Abacus doesnt expect anything of you, aside from semi'con^ 
ciousness and the ability to control one or more of your fingers at a 
time. And what it gives in return is unquestionably better than 
what you could do by yourself.
The Abacus is so advanced, so sophisticated, that were not even 
going to tell you what it does. Or what makes it work. We dont 
even know whats inside the damned box - could be rusty bolts and 
spare Barbie Doll appendages for all we care.
All we know is that it works. Thats all that matters to us, and 
isnt that really all that matters to you, too?
So, quit stalling, and give your local Kiwi dealer a call. We prom^ 
ise youll be a better person for it. Maybe not smarter, but 
better.
Kiwi Computers. Simple machines for stupid people.
Kiwi Computer Corporation 12 Bucklemyshoe Lane Monroeville, PA 15145 (412) 555-KIWI
 1988, Kiwi Computer Corporation. All rights reserved. Kiwi, Abacus, and Simple machines for stupid people, are 
registered trademarks of the Kiwi Computer Corporation.
  t><0 v .x*:\:circcciaujpr* qpr. os oootn

---------------------------------------------------

Creatures
%
v-^r
anymoreGRASS
Preface: I gratefully acknowledge the on-line Aca
demic American Encyclopedia ( Grolier Electronic 
Publishing) as the primary source for the information 
presented in this column. In particular, the encyclopedia 
articles entitled Grass, Grass Uses, Beat Grass and 
Blue-Eyed Grass were used.
The botanical family Gramineae, which contains the 
complete variety of fie worlds grasses, is truly a family 
of superlatives. There are 7,500 species of grass in 600 
genera worldwide, and of all the species on Earth, there 
are more individuals of grass than there are of any other 
single family Grasses feed more animals than any other 
plant by far, and in particular comprise- a plurality 
perhaps even the majorityof the diet of human beings. : 
Grasses are more widespread, more adaptable and more 
useful to other plants and animals than any other living 
thing.
With Glob Blipstein
Most of us think of grass Only as the soft green lawn grass 
(Cynodon dactylon) we are used to seeing in parks and in 
suburban areas; however, perhaps without knowing it, we 
sometimes use sturdy structures built from grass, and we eat 
grass products nearly every day. Bamboo, used in many parts 
of the world as an important material in building and in the 
making of tools, is a form of grass which many of us would 
never think of as related to the cool green cushion underfoot 
Com, wheat, rice, oat, sorghum and other important nutritive 
grains are species in the family Gramineae. Grasses grow on 
the ocean floor, in arctic tundra above the treeline on moun
tains, in deserts, marshes and in the tropics. Some species of 
grass have evolved into horizontally-spreading bush shapes 
that compete for the little sunlight that strikes the ground in 
dense forests. Other species, like bamboos, have evolved 
woody stems for storing nutrients between warm seasons. 
Grasses are distinguished from similar families (such as 
Cyperaceae) by their by their two-ranked leaves. (Cyperaceae, or sedges, have three-ranked leaves.) A leaf of grass 
invariably consists of a sheath and a lamina, or blade. An erect 
stem of grass, which may contain many leaves,is calledaculm, 
and is surrounded by the sheath. Leaves are attached to the 
stem at the nodes, while theremaining portions of the stem are 
called intemodes. Many grasses have extensive networks of 
fibrous roots extending deeply into the ground. This makes 
them valuable for strengthening soil and preventing erosion. 
Grasses are indispensible in the reclamation of damaged soil.
Some species of grasses, known as the stoloniferous grasses, 
have lateral shoots which produce prostrate stems extending 
away from the plant just above the ground. Some grasses 
depend on these prostrate stems (stolons) to spread across a 
region, while other grasses rely on their subterranean network 
;| of roots for spreading. The ligule of a grass plait is a 
membranous or hairy structure at the rachilla (axis); auricles 
are lateral projections at either the base or the apex of the 
sheath. Old leaves protect new ones from adverse conditions 
by surrounding be apical merisiem, from which new leaves 
grow. The inflorescence (flowering portion)ofa grass tot is 
composed of spikelets surrounded by two glumes each.
Grasses have three major types of inflorescences: spikes 
(evident in Triticum aestivium, or wheat); racemes (evi
dent in Hordeum vulgare, or barley); and panicles (evi
dent in Avena sativa, or oats). The fruit of a grass plant 
can be very small, as in Muhlenbergia or Sporobolus, or 
relatively large, as in Oryza sativa (rice).
Many grasses are perennials; when a perennial grass 
shoots herbaceous culm dies and is replaced the follow
ing year by a colony of new shoots, the collective result 
is tailed a clone. Clones grow from the original center 
shoot outward, sometimes forming wide rings with a 
dead open center. Aggressive growth is typical of the 
hardy Gramineae family; many varieties, such as Digitaria sanguinaiis, D. adscendens, Agropyron repens and 
Bromus tectortm, are common weeds, seizing hold of 
dariaged, burned or overgrazed soil as well ascompeting 
ruthlessly with more useful plants in healthy soil.
Many plants are often confused with grasses. Xerophyllum, or so-called Bear grass, is not a member of 
Gramineae but is in fact a lily (family Litiaceae). Also, 
Blue-eyed grass (Sisyrinchium) is an iris (family Iridaceae).
O. sativa, or rice, is one of the oldest cultivated plants 
in the world,and its cultivation remained unchanged for 
thousands of years. In oar time, however, the Interna
tional RieeResearch Institute has developed methods for 
increasing the yield of rice many times. Zea mays, or 
com, evolved in Mexico from tropical grasses and 
through controlled breeding and the development of 
hybrids, larger ears of com are now produced with a 
higher yield. Different varieties of com exist, bred spe
cifically for such uses as teed grain, table vegetables, 
popcorn and silage or forage production. A recent 
development of a breed of corn rich in lysine, an impor
tant amino acid, may turn out to y ield a complete human 
food in a single crop!
Grassthe most populous form of life on Earththe 
most adaptable and widespread of aU living thingsa 
study in superlatives. Truly an unsung marvel
CMI replaces the fine food they normally serve
By JAUNDICED WEE-WEE &
 LOS THE EARRING FRANKO 
Natrat Stuffwriters 
Early this month, Director of the Carnegie Mellon 
,Inc. Dying Service (CMIDS) Tim Curely an
nounced a series of major changes in Carnegie 
Mellon Incorporateds dining service in an effort to 
attract a higher class of students.
The most important of the changes in the dinning 
policy is the revised menu. In an effort to cut down 
on messes and food fights, Killme cafeteria and 
Sporewood Gardens will begin serving wax food as 
of April 6. Curely stated, This change will proba
bly not be noticed by the vast majority of 
CCCMMII students.
According to Curely, CMI originally had trouble 
meeting state nutritional standards with the new 
menu. However, he said that after lengthy negotia
tions, a few carefully placed political contributions, 
and a vailed threat to turn the occupants of Wean 
5202 lose of the state computer system they started 
to see things our way.
Another major change will be the new table set
tings at Killme. Curely has decided that fine china 
crystal glassware and expensive silverware will 
replace the current settings which CMIDS acquired 
at a discount from the cafeteria at the Homestead 
Works Steal Mill when it closed down.
In order to prevent theft of new place settings, they 
will be super-glued to the tables. According to 
Curely, Since weve shifted to wax food we de
cided to drop sanitary considerations altogether.
Both cafeterias will sport valet parking. Curely 
expostulated, The change will not be immediate, of 
course, because there is no actual parking at Carne
gie Mellon, Inc. However, when we move to the new 
campus in Nicaragua we hope to have enough room 
so that every student can bring both his or her 
(Editors note: Her? Since when do they let in 
women?) Mercedes and Ferrari to every meal. 
CMIDS plans to hire workstudy students to park 
the cars. The financial AIDS office says that the students will not be paid but will be allowed to accept tips 
as long as they are divided fifty-fifty with the Univer
sity.
In order to more fully meet the needs of its patrons 
CMIDS is training morticians as waiters. Curley de
scribed this move as an attempt to cut down on over
head.
According to him...
This way, asserted Curley, when people die the 
waiters can carry the stiffs straight out to the trash, or 
perhaps the kitchen depending on the price of meat. 
CMI provost, The Angel Jordan, denied that the 
school would use human flesh in its dishes, saying, 
This corporation would never, ever, ever, ever do 
something of this sort except in case of dire emergency 
and even then we would use only freshmen with QPAs 
of 3.5 or lower.)
Curley says that he hopes the changes will attract 
more sophisticated (read richer) students to Carne
gie Mellon.
According to him, We hate to have to fill our classes 
with students who cant even afford to pay their tuition 
without help. It puts a serious damper on profits. We 
expect the new dining facilities to draw in the kind of 
upper-class students who are now being snatched up by 
Ivy League sc hods. In fact, off the record [oops] we are 
engaging in serious negotiations with the Kennedys for 
one of their children. We are quite optimistic.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The NatratApril 5,1988
Siamese twins enroll for 88-89 year
By LOUDEN PIERCING
Natrat Creatures Co-Editor
In an effort to further increase the diversity of the student 
population at Carnegie Mellon, Inc., the administration has 
offered full tuition scholarships to two pairs of Siamese Twins. 
The twins  brothers Phil and Bill Rudolph of Intercourse, 
Pennsylvania, and sisters Betty and Sally Peters of Monroev
ille, Pennsylvania  are joined at the neck due to an obscure 
birth defect. They will enter CMI as freshmen next fall.
According to mother Lisa Rudolph, Bill and Phil are very 
excited about this opportunity to attend one of the most prestigDid you ever notice that some
times these dumb quotes dont 
go with the articles?
ious universities in the country. They were jumping up and 
down and doing backflips in the living room after they received 
Dr. [Richard] Cyrats nice letter. As a matter of fact, I was 
worried that they might break the china.
The Rudolphs plan to pursue a major in Indecision Sciences..
The Peters sisters were more pensive. I don  t know if they re 
sure they want to attend CMI, said father Fred Peters. Betty 
wants to major in art, but Sally is interested in an engineering 
degree. Theyre trying to decide how to split their coursework 
between the two colleges. Betty swears she wont be caught 
dead with one of those geek-sticks sticking out of her knapsack,
Moo.
and Sally is afraid shell be labelled as a fruitcake by her CIT
peers.
Peters added that the two sisters have had several knock
down, drag-out fights over their choice of major.
In an official statement Friday, Dr. Cyrat congratulated both 
sets of twins on their award. I am very proud to be able to offer 
all four  uh, two  uh, both sets of outstanding individuals 
this award. They and their parents have something to really be 
happy about. Carnegie Mellon, Inc. is once again at the fore
front of the nation as an innovative research and academic 
center.
It has not been decided yet whether to issue one or two report 
cards to each set of twins. Also, the administration is worried 
that the twins will not be able to comply with the every other 
desk test standard.
Freshmen-to-be Phil and Bill Rudolph dont know how 
theyre going to hack, but theyre great at those wheelbar
row races they make you do at Freshman Camp.
FREE WALK-IN ROTO-ROOTERING 
Sun.-Thurs. 7-10 pm
SEWERS 
TOILETS 
LAB SINKS 
ROOMMATES BED 
ROOMMATES HEAD 
TRANSCRIPT
photo by A.E. Green
The Peters sisters subscribe to the double your pleasure, 
double your fun theory, so theyll make a hell of an 
interesting date even if they havent decided on a major.
Were actively seeking a solution to that, said Dean of 
Student Affairs Brad Falters. We feel we may be able to work 
something out in conjunction with the plans for a new stadium, 
but were pursuing other avenues, as well.
When asked about the twins housing plans for the 1988-89 
academic year, Housing Director Tiny Martini stated that each 
set of twins would be housed in a standard double. No decision 
has been made as to whether the twins will be treated as one or 
two students for the purpose of housing fees.
Sponsored by the Counseling & Student Debilitation Center

---------------------------------------------------

April 5,1988The NatratPage 9
PMft*jnmpm Mirn IH, fir,., whats Up Dude? offers advice on
StUudlt gOeS to nell slam dancing and Preparation H
By SLASH VAN MANN
Special to The Natrat 
Carnegie Mellon, Inc. Senior Tubb-Fripp 
VorpalHeyden recently completed a sixmonth trip through the Nine Planes of Hell as 
part of the 1988 Dante Scholars Program. The 
program annually selects students from 
ground the world to gain hands-on experience 
in tormenting the damned and other day-today malevolent activities.
It sure was a challenge, said VorpalHeyWed had a few beers, and it was a real bitch , trying to avoid the heads sticking out of the solid
ice.T.F. VorpalHeyden
den Youd never believe how much upkeep 
these infernal regions require. Wed be replacing worn and broken whips and lashes in the 
first bolgia one minute, pouring more boiling 
pitch into the fifth bolgia the next. You gotta 
admire the demons on the fifth bolgia,  he 
admitted. Day in, day out, ripping the flesh of 
the fraudulent dead  but do they complain? 
No way. Theyre career individuals.
But all work and no play makes Jack a dull 
servant of evil. Those fiends from the bowels 
I of Hell know how to party, Tubb-Fripp re
lated. Everybody thinks Minos is such a 
hardass, but there he was telling jokes and 
tending the bar. Somebodyd say, Gimme a 
light, and hed come back with a flaming 
severed head on a stick, and theyd say,
Noooo  Bud Light!  What a card! 
VorpalHeyden also talked with Liberace, 
brought up from Circle VII to play some Barry 
Manilow numbers. Liberace spends most of 
his time in this scorching desert with fire 
raining down on his head. I guess hes 
bummed that they come down so hard on 
sodomy around here.
As with every internship, there are the usual 
tales of intern escapades. All the interns went 
skating down on Cocytus  you know, the 
frozen pit of Hell. Wed had a few beers, and 
it was a real bitch trying to avoid the heads 
sticking out of the solid ice.
What was the worst experience? We were in 
Circle VIII, Malebolge, riding on winged 
demons and having chicken fights. I fell off 
and went right into this moat of human excre
ment I was pretty embarrassed. The smell 
didntbother me too much, though, cause Im 
used to all the manure on the CMI campus. 
The interns addressed some important Hell 
issues, such as punishment revision. The 
general opinion was that some originality and 
variety was needed, explained VorpalHey
den. The interns drew up punishment abstracts 
for projected denizens of Hell.
Were putting Tammy Bakker at the Estee 
Lauder counter at Bloomies with no cash, no 
plastic. Ed Meese will spend eternity shoving 
shredded paper down the throats of Fawn Hall 
and Ollie North. And were forcing Jimmy 
Swaggart to look at life-size nude pix of Erma 
Bombeck and Ruth Buzzi.
Tubb-Fripp said he learned a lot from his trip 
to Hell, sponsored in part by Diet Joke, official 
soft drink of the Pits of Eternal Damnation. 
VorpalHeyden, who will graduate this spring 
with a B.A. in Malevolent Policy Manage
ment plans a career in government
Q: Every time I slam dance, my right arm pit rips a little more. I dont mind especially except when my girlfriends spiked collar digs into the festering wound. Am I paranoid or is this a little unhealthy, dude?
A: Well, I would lay off the deoderant for a while, but otherwise get plenty of rest and drink 
fluids. If, however, you or your girlfriend start to experience burning upon urination, consult 
your veterinarian.
Q: All my girlfriends welts are much deeper and redder than mine. Im really jealous. 
Is there any way I can cosmetically enhance mine?
A: Yes. There are several reliable electronic cattle prods on the market that should do the job 
quite nicely. You might also consider tatoos to further enhance your wounds.
Q: How do I prevent small, furry animals from exploding when I have fun with them? 
Heh heh.
A: Using stuffed animals always makes for an enjoyable evening. You might also consider 
becoming a vegetarian a la 9 7/2 Weeks. A little French onion dip and some fresh produce goes 
along way.
Q: My boyfriend frequently uses my tongue as an ashtray. Can I get oral cancer from 
this?
A: Only if you suck on the ashes. You might want to try Topols smokers tooth polish.
Q: I find shaving my bikini area with rusty razor blades gives me a nice clean shave, but 
once in a while I slip. Is this dangerous and should I get a tetanus shot?
A: A tetanus shot would not be a bad idea, but Id only really start to worry if the area turns 
green.
Q: I love my black leather studded underwear, but after sitting all day, I notice a burning, 
itching sensation. Could I have hemorroids?
A: Either youre in love, or you need Preparation H, babe.
Send questions and 8 by 10 glossies to:
Whats Up Dude?
do The Natrat
Continuous Abacus Demonstrations
14pm & 59pm
Carnegie Mellon, Inc. students welcome.
IHpfP1Tl1[
mmmmtroumkmmmmmm
April 15, 1988, 14pm & 59pm 
Skibop Hall, Carnegie Mellon, Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The NatratApril 5,1988
Natrat 88-89 Housing Guide
By JUDY THE BARBARIAN
Natrat Creatures Co-Editor
The Natrat, in an effort to provide detailed and up-to-date information about YOUR campus, 
presents the 1988-89 Housing Guide.
Room draw
Next year Housing is trying^ new method to insure fairness in the annual room draw process. 
Students with moles on their left pinkies will draw first, followed by those with second cousins 
twice-removed named Cora. The rest of the student body, arranged according to the number of 
Killme dining trays found smuggled into each students previous room, will follow.
I think its about time we had some standard policies set and enforced for room draw, 
commented Director of Housing Tiny Martini. Were moving to an innovative and high tech 
policy which I feel certain other schools will soon follow.
Dean of Student Affairs Brad Falters supported the new Housing policy. I support the new 
Housing policy, he said.
On-campus housing
Yuk.
Off-campus housing
The Housing Office recently announced that, in an effort to encourage off-campus housing, 
students living off-campus will have 1/2 point added to their grade point average for every two 
miles they live off-campus.
Junior Nelson Schmidt comments, I think its a great policy. Housing, not to mention parking, 
is becoming a serious problem at CMI. Hell, I plan to commute from my home in Philadelphia. 
Ill graduate in two weeks!
Laundry Facilities
For the 1988-89 school year, the housing maintenance department has announced anew policy 
on the upkeep of washers and driers. For a change, repairs will not be made to any broken 
machines.
Our recommendation
Your best bet is to sleep in lounges. You get a big screen TV (soon with free cable), plenty of 
room to entertain your friends, pool tables, and its absolutely free. We particularly recommend 
the lounge in YUCC  its comfortable and has a great view of The Flashcube and the lovely 
sculpture outside it
On warm nights you can sleep under the stars in the garden behind Sludge or, better yet, inside 
the mammoth red iron sculpture outside The Carnegie.
Farmer Frank 
Smiths cow Bessie 
will be giving birth 
sometime this 
week. Stop by 
Franks place 
sometime this week 
to find out how 
things are going 
with Bessie!
Since the plowing season is upon us, Joes 
Hardware will offer free plow blade sharp
ening all this month with any purchase of at 
least 50 feet of garden hose. Call Joe for 
more information.
Tuesday, April 5
The barber shop downtown will be install
ing a new pane of glass at about 2:00. The 
window, which is to be marked with the 
inscription Downtown Barber Shop, will 
be available for viewing throughout the 
week. The shop is celebrating its expansion 
with $2.00 haircuts through April 20.
Star Wars will be shown for the first time 
at the schoolhouse. This movie, starring 
Mark Hamill, Carrie Fisher, and Sir Alec 
Guiness, was a hit in the city when it was 
released. Please bring a paper towel roll for 
Mrs. Francis third grade class art project. 
Wednesday, April 6 
Wayne Howard, Claus Howards son, will 
be departing for school in Dayton, Ohio, at 
noon. Come on out and wish Wayne good 
luck in the city. Meet at the speed limit sign 
a mile out of town on Route 21  thats 
where Wayne meets the bus.
The fifth grade spring musical, Life on the 
Farm, will be presented at 7:30 pm at the 
schoolhouse. Refreshments are included in 
the reception following the performance. 
For more info, talk to Chastity Bennett.
Thursday, April 7 
The Methodist 
Churchs potluck 
will be held in the 
east wing. People 
with last names of A 
through K should 
bring a main dish; 
letters L through S 
are requested to furnish a salad; and letters 
T through Z should prepare a dessert plate. 
Betty Mason has volunteered to watch 
after the younger children in the parking 
lot. Please join us!
Saturday, April 9
The Hallorans will have a barn-raising 
starting at sunup. Join your neighbors in a 
day of work and fellowship. Those plan
ning to participate should leave their 
names at the Lutheran Church so Mrs. 
Halloran can coordinate dinner with the 
other women.
Bill Evans will be the caller at the local 
square dance, to be held at the schoolhouse 
starting at 8:00 pm. Walt Gregory has 
volunteered to hitch up his tractor to pro
vide hayrides few those interested. Rides 
will depart the schoolhouse at 9:00 pm and 
11:00 pm. Please wear clean jeans. 
Sunday, April 10
Following church, George Walker will 
demonstrate his new hand calculator, 
which has 52 functions and is driven by the 
power of light. Meet on the town square. 
A Livestock Auction will be held at the 
Menomonie Fairgrounds. The Ladies 
Aides will be serving a barbecue lunch for 
$2.50, and the Amery PTA will be holding 
a bake sale to raise money for their new 
multi-purpose room.
Compiled by LOUDEN PIERCING
7D
FREE WALK-IN NEUTERING 
Sun.-Thurs. 7-10 pm
CASTRATION 
HYSTERECTOMY 
BREAST REMOVAL 
LIPOSUCTION DU JOUR 
WING IMPLANTS 
ANDROGENY MAKEOVER
Sponsored by the Counseling & Student Debilitation Center
....... Ml " .... 'if *? i. , ........ .. ,, ... .... I ........

---------------------------------------------------

April 5,1988The NatratPage 11
More Gray less 
green planned
By STUE PIDD
Natrat Groupie 
I In a surprise press conference, Carnegie 
Mellon Inc. President Dick Cyrat announced 
that the University was cancelling plans for a 
new athletic facility on the site of Dreck Field.
Were still gonna tear the old heap down, 
insisted Doc Cyrat Its come to my attention 
that no one actually goes to any of our games, 
so why bother having a field?
The move came one day after Athletic Direc^ tor Gym Banned retired from active duty. 
Rumors have not surfaced that the timing of 
the two events were not coincidental.
One unnamed source confided in the Mens 
Shower that Banned was violently against 
cancelling the new facilities. He was pretty 
insistent. He Even threatened to blow the balls 
off of Vice-President for Everything Lil 
Elroy if they didnt have turf down by August.
Elroy refused to comment, but the University 
lawyer stated, There was never a threat to 
anyones balls, and the Natrat shouldntbother 
trying to create controversy. Anyway, The 
Stupid Union does a much better job. 
Destruction of the old athletic field is still set 
to begin next month. The University has not 
officially decided what to do, however, Director of Planning and Replanning and Replan
ning and Replanning Rat Breeding feels that 
an announcement will be made soon.
One of the things that the Mediocrity of Life 
Task Force noted was the lack of Gray Matter 
available to the campus at large. After all, with 
all of those unwashed geeks playing games at
all hours in the current Gray Matter, theres no 
space for normal people. A newly enlarged 
Gray Matter could be built once we get fund
ing for it. It will benefit the entire campus.
The loss of Dreck Field should not impede 
Carnegie Mellons entrance into the Univer
sity Apathetic Association. The Natrats are 
supposed to play the Chicago Morons this 
September at home.
Who knows, maybe well just play on the 
Cut, suggests Cyrat. It really doesnt matter, 
this new league is full of other high-priced, 
over-rated colleges that dont give a damn 
about sports either. No onell notice, trust me.
Photo by Polly Peptinde
Mr. T prepares to push hills 1,2, and 5, for the A Team.
Hurricane hits Skibop Gym
By STUE PIDD
Natrat Groupie
Look out basketball fans, the Hurricane 
is ready to blow, Edwardo Hurricane 
Velez that is.
The top prospect from the island of St 
Croix, Velez is ready to take over center 
for the Natrats.
The 74 high school senior chose Car
negie Mellon over Division I schools like 
Pitt and Temple for several reasons. Fore
most in his mind was the atmosphere at 
CMI.
No one here cares about basketball, he 
noted. Its great! Theres nobody at the 
games. I dont have to worry about people
complaining if I don  t score thirty points every 
night.
At the press conference heralding Velezs 
signing, Natrat Head Coach Scary Ampersand 
explained how hes brought the St Croix na
tive to Carnegie Mellon.
To be honest, Id never heard of the kid. Id 
been doing the normal recruiting job. Looking 
for as many kids not good enough to get into 
Harvard or Yale, and begging them to come 
here.
One day I was looking through Ripleys 
Believe It or Not and saw Velezs picture. No 
one had ever heard of the kid, after all, he 
played on the only high school team on St. 
Croix. Theyd normally just play themselves
every couple of days. I figured Id call just 
to see if the kid existed.
Turns out hes 7*4, got a 1380 on his 
SATs, and likes I.C. Lite  it was fate. 
As a senior, Velez played in only three 
games, but he blocked 28 shots.
Obviously the kids a project but when 
someone with this much raw potential 
comes around, you have to take a chance. 
Besides, considering the caliber of most 
Division III players, he could become an 
immediate star, added Ampersand as he 
frothed at the mouth.
Velez plans on double majoring in Indus
trial Administration and Womens studies, 
with a minor in Botony.
J
Who are these strange beings?
They wear black, with a little black thrown in. Hair to match. Or theyre covered 
in paint. They put up miles of colored string all over campus. Or pretend all the 
worlds a stage. Perhaps the strangest thing of all... they don't know which file 
server they're on.You've seen them in Grey Matter. You've heard them talking in the library. Who 
the hell are Melted Weirdo and Macrame Bikini? Are "crits" a Southern 
breakfast cereal?
Well, find out!
Take advantage of our new "Take an Art Fag to Lunch" program. Just fill out and 
send in the form below, and you'll be matched with an appropriate, hungry art 
fag.*
"But I'll say the wrong things." No problem. With your lunch confirmation youll 
receive a small pamphlet on lunch conversation pointers ("Say, 'Could you 
repeat that?* instead of I didn't parse that.'") and fine arts vocabulary terms 
("Impressionist," "Renaissance," "Capezios").
Its fun. It's easy. And it'll come in handy when employers hand you this "wellrounded employee" bullshit.
Male applicants please note: this is not to be used to try to pick up girls. That is what cross
registering at Pitt is for.
[ ] Yes, sign me up. Id like to take to lunch (circle one): 
a line art major a dram-rat a resign major an archidork
anyone who wears black and smokes like a fiend
[ 1 No Im still a little intimidated. I mean, these people don't even know what 
"object-oriented languages" are. Please send me more information.
Name:
Address:
Telephone:
Send to: Fine Arts Majors for Lunch, Skibop Info Desk, Carnegie Mellon, Inc..
Come to the
Stupid Union
We Thought We Had It 
Reorganization Meeting
Contrary to popular belief, the Stupid Union does have an audience. 
And to show their support, the 3 of them have volunteered to sustain 
our fine publication for one more fabulous, fun, brush-with-the-lawfilled semester. Therefore, we are having a really huge meeting to get
prepared for next year.
When? / /
Time? : pm
Where? BH [ ]
Who? We need people who can:
Photocopy other periodicals
Manage an off-campus bank account
Smile and nod when Senate tells us to do something
Increase advertising volume to 3 ads per semester
Skip Senate budget meetings
Spell Pfeiffer and Allen"
Claim that our budget is 1/3 of some other 
organizations, when in fact its 1/10 
Find some way to put down that same organization 
in every issue
Design advertisements (Hours: Mon 4:00-4:05 pm) 
Tell the guy who draws Pencil Boy that we really 
dont have an office in Skibo 
Make sure we consistently spell administrators 
names wrong
Design a new 7" high typeface for front-page shockvalue obscenities
Conceal those same obscenities from Senate when 
they ask us why our printer wont print that issue 
(See: smile and nod)
Vomit creatively on heavy-stock paper (Title: Mast
head Designer)
Come to our meeting, or call z[ ].

---------------------------------------------------

s
The Natrat
IPURTs
S&M LEATHER -WHIPS  G-STRINGS
The Pittsburgh Sports Scene:
Pirates: Undefeated in the Grapefruit League 
and are expected to win the pennant 
Pitt Panthers: Knocked off Oklahoma 87-83 to 
win the NCAA Championship 
Penguins: Swept their last 7 games and are the 
leading contenders for the Stanley Cup
Fruits toss vegetables in 22nd Salad Bowl
By SHECKY GERSHWIN
Natrat Spurts Editor 
In a surprising upset, the fruits of the College 
of Fine Arts defeated the combined force of 
vegetables from the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology and the Mellon College of Sci
ence 17-14 in the 22nd Annual Salad Bowl at 
Tech Field last week.
The event, held in honor to commemorate the 
graduation of T.V. producer Steven Bochco 
from the CFA in 1966, has gained in popular
ity and alumni support ever since alumni and 
NBC began donating a special cash award to 
the winning team back in 1979. Since then, 
theBochco Bonus has dished out over $2.3 
million to the various winning teams.
The award varies in size from year to year, 
depending on the ratings of LA. Law. The 
award suffered a major setback when Hill 
Street Blues was cancelled causing unem
ployment for three quarters of CFA alumni.
The game itself started out slowly. Since it is 
a co-ed competition, the vegetables (unlike the 
ir fruit counterparts) had to spend over two 
hours scanning through the C-Book trying to 
find a dozen girls in either CIT or MCS.
Attendance has grown dramatically in recent 
years ever since the game went from flag foot
ball to two-hand touch. One spectator noted, 
Its fun to watch the geeks try to cop a feel on 
a cute babe as they try to tackle her, only to 
realize that she doesnt even have the ball! 
The first half saw the two teams exchange 
touchdowns amidst heavy physical contact 
CFA quarterback Jeremy Steele was in fine 
form. The Junior Musical Theatre major hit 
one completion after another with out ever 
getting his hair mussed.
Star running back for the tech students,
Tonsil hockey sinks in deep
photo by Jimbo Van Lick
Face sucking competitors take a break in the regional semi-finals. Competition was 
due to the large number of challenge matches amoung various teams.
By GNATSIE DEPEST 
Natrat Spurts Wench
He shoots and scores!
Thats how the night ended for Sammy 
Slurpy Slurpinsky and Pasty Puckerup in 
Kissime, Florida, as the pair won the 1988 
Listerine Cup for excellence in sport of Tonsil 
Hockey.
The sport originated eight years ago on a high 
school campus in northern Idaho. Large num
bers of lip-locked students were spotted in all 
of the secluded, and not so secluded, spots of 
the school. Teachers, as well as other students, 
tried to curtail this activity with remarks and 
threats of detention and parent contact These 
actions were not favorably accepted by the 
tongue-twisting teeny boppers. It was then that 
Jean-Claude Pierre, otherwise known as 
Frenchy, decided to approach the school board 
with a possible solution.
I figured that an after-school club for those 
who prefer to swallow their mates whole 
would help to alleviate the problem during the 
school day. I never intended it for Tonsil 
Hockey to go as far as it did, said Frenchy.
Far it went. Other schools with similar PDA 
(public display of affection) problems insti
tuted Frencys idea. This was met with mixed 
reactions from the students parents. Some 
were very happy with the Tonsil Hockey daily 
meetings because now my kid doesnt come 
home until 4:30, which gives me plenty of time 
to watch my soaps." Others were not so
pleased. Who the hell will my kid be swap
ping spit with next?
The local newspapers got wind of the 
events at the areas middle schools and 
sponsored a county championship to deter
mine the best Tonsil Hockey team. Prizes 
were awarded for uniqueness in the follow
ing categories: duration, breath control, 
position and sound.
National championships, sponsored by 
the makers of toothpaste, mouthwash, 
breath mints and dental floss were not far 
behind. In 1984, the Listerine Cup became 
the most coveted prize for Tonsil Hockey 
players. Teams from around the country go 
through grueling preliminary and regional 
tournaments in order to qualify for this 
prestigious event.
Slurpy explains. Patsy and I have been 
together for over two years now. We go 
through some pretty major hassles from 
people all over town because of our practic
ing. They just dont understand how crucial 
practice is to a good performance when 
kissing at a competitive level.
Prizes for the winners include a years 
supply of mouthwash, lip balm and cold 
sore medicine. Patsy and Slurpy will be 
first seeds on the Tartan Tonsil Hockey 
Team when they enter CMU as freshman 
next year.
Both hope to be quite active in the 
schools Greek system.
Mohinbus Nmusguchigiy had a fine first half 
overall. The Guch had over 75 yards in the 
first half and had enough left to play D&D in 
Grey Matter at half time.
The game also had a psychological edge to it. 
Girls on the CFA team would try to flirt with 
the extremely responsive tech students, which 
resulted in quite a few players being arrested 
by the campus police cm assault charges. The 
veggies would strike back however, by simply 
holding up replicas of their first year employ
ment checks. This tactic caused two artists to 
suffer minor breakdowns. They taken to the 
Counseling Center for milk and cookies.
The game was tied at 7-7 as the two teams hit 
the locker rooms at halftime. The halftime 
show featured the H&SS students performing 
numbers from Pippin. We didnt want to 
leave the non-specialized people out of the 
event said Organizer Don King Walter.
The best guess students were also utilized 
as cheerleaders and water carriers.
The IM and GSIA students sold popcorn and 
monitored the crowd. One IM student who 
also reportedly plays Varsity sports, com
mented, Duh. A classmate of his, who tore 
himself away from buggy practice to attend 
the game, stated, Ditto.
The third quarter saw only one really inter
esting development. A CIT tailback had to be 
rushed to Allegheny General after suffering an 
anxiety attack following a major mistake re
sulting in a fruit TD. It really wasnt his 
fault said veggie captain Charles Thomshank. He was running to the the bathroom at 
the other end of the field, forgetting that he had 
the ball, yeah thats it.
The 14-7 fruit lead was quickly ended as the 
tech students ran their patterned Fly Flicker
where the ball carrier pulls down his pants and 
runs for the score. Ordinarily, such a ploy 
would have been ineffective in touch football, 
except that the running back in question had 
not bathed since his mastery exam.
With tied at 14-14, fruit captain and Archi
tecture major Judy The Hinge Hingemon, 
put in place kicker and dance major Anna Ma
ria DAntonia.
On the snap from Pittsburgh native, Stanley 
Popalnaskijewinkowtzcsdtk, DAntonia
dropped back and blasted a 45 yard drop kick 
that split the uprights as the final gun sounded. 
The final score: Fruits 17 Vegetables 14.
The tech students do hold a lead in the series, 
winning 12 games 10.
Unfortunately for the CFA students, crits for 
the artists and crew for the actors put off any 
grand celebrations. The tech students report
edly consoled one another by having a mara
thon movie session by watching Buckaroo 
Bonzai 12 times in Scotland Yard.
The Natrat tried to use the Goodrich blimp to obtain photos of the recent Varsity 
tennis match. It was a stupid idea and the editor has been severely dealt with.
