ibrary book mutilations increase
y yMoMr retMhaMn1
rtori Staffwriter
More than 15 costly incidents of book 
utilations and thefts have occurred at the unt and E&S libraries since last Spring. 
According to University Libraries direcr Tom Michalak, the number of episodes tals more than the previous three years 
^mbined.Michalak emphasizes the severity of the 
oblem and the seriousness that the Univervhas attached to it. Recently a non-CMU dent completely removed the pages from math books on set theory and left the binngs behind. The incident cost the library 
er S2000 and mirrored a similar incident 
at recently occurred at Pitt.Security has a possible suspect in mind, o according to Michalak has to be not
0 bright' and a little screwed up" to go all that trouble to end up with thousands 
loose pages. He said that if the perpetrator jallv wanted to steal the books there are1 merous easier ways.'
 Michalak emphasized that this type of inlent is a rarity, however. It is the smaller,re prevalent ones that are just asmaging.
jThe much more common incidents in- de students and non-students cutting out 
'tures and articles from journals, 
gazines. and books. Michalak stated that 
y non-student apprehended defacing or aling a book is turned over to Security
University Libraries director Tom Michalak displays a damaged library book.
who in turn calls the police. The criminal 
is then cited under Title 18 of the Penn-, 
sylvania Consolidated Statutes.
If the criminal is a student, Security in
forms the Dean of Students who takes charge 
of the situation. This usually entails receiv
ing compensation for the damaged property. Some hours of hard labor' working in 
the library may be assigned for mild of
fenses, with more severe penalties for more 
serious offenses.
Michalak blames the naivete of the staff 
for the lack of criminals being caught in the 
past. <md attributes more people getting
photo by Peter Rosenfeld
. caught recently to changes in the staff.
Michalak expects that publicizing the 
situation will help alleviate the problem, tak 
mg away the innocence of the occasional 
page-stealer. He said that he hopes students 
will share in the respect and responsibility 
for the intellectual resources of the library.'nnovative campus pub plans underway
KAREN WOODILLA
jnn Staffwriter 
Student-run committees are rapidly makprogress toward the Fall 1985 complen of a self-supporting, student oriented
b.
Interested students and Fraternity Advisor 
^ Carson gathered January 29 to clarify 
kns for location and theme, and organize 
mittees to tackle the pub's design, 
^ terials. budget, entertainment, and 
blicity.
[ This will be a non-alcoholic facility," said 
LiUey, Assistant Dean of Student Affairs. 
e unable to secure a liquor license, 
t^lere are no immediate hopes for one. 
Ueur' recent developments have given
* committee optimism that a lesser 
l!|nse wine and beer can be obtained. 
jThe location and theme are the two bigW cha]lenges facing the group. The pub 
fl be located in Skibos Highlander 
m or at 3 CMU owned house behind 
ppa Sigma Fraternity. Major renovation
sPace considerations must be faced if
* Highlander Room is used, whereas "all
* house would need is new furniture 
Jaust the atmosphere is already there,1,1 Jav Carson.
I. ,(>UP hoped to make a decision on
I Cation during the meeting but fire safe! Su'Jtns prevented the large group 
I lnsIK(ting the house at the time. The
lm 18 cont'nu'n work on this pro1 an<* a decision is expected soon.
( nia>i' theme of the pub is a second 
j i cquiting group attention. "Since the 
t/; ^eveloped and run by students. 
(,t *n w*th a universal theme." com 
i^arS >n' can as Poshive as you
A nearly unanimous decision was made 
in favor of a Scottish Pub, as huge 
amounts of Tartan memorabilia available 
could help add character and style. However, 
the group agreed that they would consider 
another avenue if the design committee pro
duced plans incorporating a more favorable 
theme. The theme and design must allow for 
three stages of construction: the end of 
Spring 1985. end of Fall 1985, and the final 
completion during the Spring of 1986.
A small group recently visited Duquesne 
University s Rathskellar" campus pub to get
ideas about what to do and what not to do. 
said Seth Kaplan, an enthusiastic freshman. 
We talked to their managers, cooks, and 
students. They have a very established place: 
good atmosphere, experienced managers, an 
extensive pub menu provided by their 
universitys dining service, booths, tables, a 
dance floor, and many, many students.
CMUs pub will have student managers 
and will not use the University Dining Ser
vice. The pub will probably use a smaller 
version of Duquesnes pub menu, and will 
have less space, but similar facilities.
Alumni President Reese 
dies in plane crash
By KAREN GRAY
Tartan News Editor
A tragic plane accident claimed the lives 
of the CMU Alumni Association President 
and three others last Thursday.
John D. Reese, 63, and his 15-year-old 
granddaughter, Katherine C. Reese, died 
when the small plane in which they were 
traveling crashed 40 miles outside of 
Philadelphia.
The pilot of the plane, George W. 
Thomas, 44, and the co-pilot, Phillip Pat
terson, 33, also died.
The crash occurred shortly after 1 p.m. 
The twin-engine Cessna 414 had been 
cleared for an instrument-landing approach 
at the Chester County Airport, but missed 
the approach, crashing into the swimming 
pool of a Chester County home.
Authorities believe that low clouds may 
have prevented the pilot from seeing the 
runway.
Reese was en route to pick up a business 
associate, who was waiting at the Chester 
County Airport. His granddaughter, a 
sophomore at the Ellis School in Shadyside, 
was going on a skiing trip, according to a 
friend of the family.
In addition to serving as the president of 
the Alumni Association, Reese was on the 
University Board of Trustees.
A native of Beaver Falls, Reese was Presi
dent of the Board of Trustees of Seton Hill 
College in Greensburg, where his surviving 
family currently resides. He also owned the 
Pepsi Cola Bottling Co. of Kecksburg and 
was a co-president of Laurel Group Ltd., 
based in Greensburg.
Reeses oldest surviving son, John D. Reese, 
Jr., graduated form CMUs Graduate School 
of Industrial Administratioon in 1975.
Alumni Director David L. Maloney spoke 
of Reeses loyalty to CMU, adding that 
remembrances of his contributions to the 
community have not yet been planned.
The visitors agreed that the experience 
has given them new ideas, even more en
thusiasm. and increased confidence in the 
success of this venture.
The Finance Committee was organized to 
budget the funds necessary to build the pub, 
and the day-to-day operating expenses.
Right now we have no set budget, said 
Bob Fishel of Theta Xi Fraternity. "The ad
ministration will give us money only if they 
realize that we are serious and willing to take 
on responsibility. We all have to work with 
each other.
The Finance Committee is working closely 
with the Procurement Committee, which is 
in charge of obtaining the supplies and 
continued on page 2
In This Issue:
News 
The missing piece.... page 2
Heart transplant.......page 3
Features
Expert on Bhopal......page 5
Career Placement......page 7
Entertainment
Beaux Arts Ball.........page 11
Fantasia.......................page 12
Sports
Men lose big one......page 17
Athlete of the
Month.........................page 20
Editorial
Hidden features page 24

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanFebruary 12, 1985
Variety of discussion groups offered
By CLEMENT S. O'DONNELL
Tartan Staffwriter
CMUs Counseling and Student Develop
ment Center will offer workshops and educa
tional seminars in areas of personal concern.
The workshop program will be held week
day afternoons on campus during the next
few months. There are five scheduled for this 
semester, including:
V*Managing Stressinterested students 
will learn several stress management 
techniques, including identification of 
stressors and stress symptoms, relaxation 
techniques and cognitive restructuring.
Dr. Lor rie Rabin
photo by Sara Yant
Students plan for pub
continued from page 1
materials necessary to build and sustain 
operations so as to present a long-range fiscal 
forecast.
The Entertainment and Publicity Com 
mittee are organizing the events that will 
reflect and stimulate student interests. The 
Entertainment Committee is divided into 
Food and Program Subcommittees. Current
ly, their plans include a hors douvres-style 
menu, frequent live entertainment, a 
regular DJ, student produced events, a 
dance floor, and many tables where students 
will gather. The Publicity Committee will 
decide how to best publicize the Campus
Pub and student events held there.
Now that the various committees have 
begun creating and completeing their plans, 
the success of the CMU Pub depends on the 
assistance and enthusiasm given by the stu
dent body. The long-term goals are pretty 
much set. but the short-term goals for how 
we will operate for the rest of the year are 
being developed now and will probably be 
set within the next week," Kaplan says.
"We need to keep the ball moving and the 
energy level high! Lilley comments. This 
could be the hub of student-run activities 
and projects. Consequently it can help bring 
the campus together."
Department of Design 
Carnegie-Mellon University 
presents
Douglass Scott
A History of Graphic Design: Part 1 Monday, February 4,1985
7:30 pm
Lee W. Gregg Hall (Porter Hall 100), 
Carnegie-Mellon University
A History of Graphic Design: Part 2 Tuesday. February 5,1985
7:30 pm 
Lee W. Gregg Hall (Porter Hall 100), 
Carnegie-Mellon University
A History of Graphic Design: Part 3 Wednesday, February 6,1985
7:30 pm 
Lee W. Gregg Hall (Porter Hall 100), 
Carnegie-Mellon University
Ten Typographers Thursday, February 7,1985 
7:30 pm
Lee W. Gregg Hall (Porter Hall 100), 
Carnegie-Mellon University
Bradbury Thompson: 50 years Friday, February 8,1985
of Graphic Design 2:30 pm
Adamson Wing (Baker Hall 139), 
Carnegie-Mellon University
Managing Stress will be held Thursdays 
from 4:30 to 5:30. Doctoral students 
Diana Malone and Mary Brand will 
direct the workshop, which begins 
February 14.
* Eating DisordersThis support group 
is aimed at students who may feel that 
they are having problems with eating or 
nutrition. The group is led by Dr. 
Rosanne Kickey, and runs Mondays from 
4:30 to 5:30 starting February 11.
* Families in TransitionThis workshop, 
begun last semester, is growing populari
ty. Dealing with problems faced by 
students whose parents are separated or 
divorced, this workshop will function as 
a support group led by Stewart Sedowsky 
and a core group of previous participants. 
It runs Tuesdays this semester from 3:30 
to 5:00, beginning February 12. 
^Understanding Addiction in 
FamiliesThis new workshop concept 
will concentrate on discussion, education, 
and support for students who are ex
periencing alcohol or drug addiction in 
their families. It runs Tuesdays from 4:00 
to 5:30, starting February 19 under the 
direction of Kristen Erickson, drug and
alcohol specialist from a local Pittsbm. 
agency.
*What Do You Do After You 
Hello?This interpersonal skills gro 
stresses learning how to relate, for 
friends, and overcoming inhibits 
Lynne Kalmen will lead the sessio 
beginning February 12 on Wednesd 
from 4:30 to 5:30.
The workshops, first offered in 1981 
enjoying an increasing demand. Accordi 
to CDSC director Dr. Lorrie Rabin, eJ 
workshop is designed with the psychologic] 
welfare and growth of the student, staff] 
faculty member in mind: Weve oho 
several workshop topics in response toi 
kinds of problems that students present 
the Counseling Center.
She continued. We feel that the thei 
Youre not alone describes the way in i 
the workshops can be helpful to studen 
With a group leader and people with sir 
problems, one can learn new ways of cm 
ing with those problems."
Anyone interested in this semestei 
workshops is invited to register by calliJ 
x2922 or stopping by the Center 
Morewood Gardens E-103.
Student's sculpture 
missing from display
By KAREN GRAY
Tartan News Editor
One piece in a series of six outdoor 
sculptures is missing from its resting place 
behind the College of Fine Arts building.
Senior Sculpture major Gerri Ondrizek 
said that her work disappeared sometime 
between 2:30 and 4:30 p.m. on January 30.
It is of great value. I would really like to 
have it back, said Ondrizek of the missing 
piece.
Ondrizek described the work as a "tradi
tional bust sculpted in a contemporary' way." 
She added that the sculpture was expen
sive to make and hard to make. Its a oneshot deal because you lose the mold ini 
ing the sculpture."
Several of Ondrizeks other works u 
placed outside the CFA building early 1 
semester. The figures, which she descrilx 
as a series of torsos," remained unmolesitj 
prompting her to place the most recej 
display outside this semester.
"The reason Im putting [the pieces]c 
is so that everyone can see art on camp 
I'm personally offended that someone wou| 
steal them.
Ondrizek said that she had planned toj 
up a future display between Baker 
Doherty Halls, but. is "kind of worried I 
a result of the incident.
Philip Pelusi Haircutting Workshops!
Register for a Philip Pelusi haircutting workshop and 
get a great-looking cut for just $8.00!
Call Salon nearest you  ask for workshop 
coordinator.
Bank Center 261-6550 Century III Mall 655-1940
Squirrel Hill 521-1200 Village Square Mall 833-61^
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING SERVICE 
EXPANDED
Now Every Sunday through Thursday 
7:00 - 10:00 PM
CALCULUS 
PRE, I, II, III 
PHYSICS 
CHEMISTRY 
ENGLISH WRITING 
INTRO TO COMPUTING 
Sponsored by Student 
Counseling and Student Development 
Center.
PH 225B|
.PH 226B 
PH 226C 
PH 125B 
WeH 5415
Affairs 3m

---------------------------------------------------

February 5, 1985The TartanPage 3
1, i[iiiiiy::i)n]
photo by Scot AllenA Phi O member Dave Johnson
uggings highlight off-campus bad spots
KAREN GRAY
L News Editor
Several CMU students were accosted last 
t semester in areas immediately surrounjg the campus, alerting Campus Security 
some of the more dangerous off-campus
3tS.
Our biggest problem starts at the [Forbes 
Fenue and Schenley] bridges, commented 
urity Police Chief Robert Fadzen. He 
d that the bridges provided an easy 
,ans of escape for muggers. They can 
it run down over the wooded hillside, he 
[ded.
adzen cited the Bureau of Mines area 
|d Flagstaff Hill as additional trouble
ns.
Late last December, a female CMU stuit was the victim of a strong-armed mug
ging on Forbes Avenues in front of the 
Bureau of Mines. According to the student, 
a group of three young men approached her 
in what she called triangle formation as 
she walked up Forbes towards the campus 
area. They spread themselves across the 
sidewalk, she said, so that no matter what 
way I had to pass, I had to walk close to 
somebody.
As she attempted to pass the men, one 
member of the group hit her on the mouth, 
while another took her Sony Walkman. The 
third man reached into her coat pocket and 
took her wallet, but gave her student iden
tification card to her when she asked for it.
The student said that the men asked her 
if she had anything else of value. They left, 
however, when she said, You have my Sony
Walkman, just leave me alone.
The group continued down the street, 
disappearing under the Forbes Avenue 
bridge, according to the victim, who at first 
attempted to follow them.
Another CMU student reported that he 
was mugged in December, late one Friday 
evening, while walking down Morewood 
Avenue towards Centre Avenue. The stu
dent said he heard someone running behind 
him. He turned to see a young male who ran 
past the victim, and suddenly stopped about 
ten feet in front of him.
The student crossed the street, and notic
ed a second man. [The men] came over 
and said they wanted to buy some drugs, 
he said. Then one man grabbed the stu
dents wallet while the other demanded his
watch.
The student said that Campus Security 
was quite helpful about the incident, but 
described the Pittsburgh police who later 
came to the scene as incompetent. They 
took over an hour to take my report. By then 
it was two a. m.
Our jurisdiction ends at the sidewalks, 
said Fadzen when asked about Campus 
Securitys coordination with the Pittsburgh 
Police in handling off-campus crime against 
students. However, if its one of our own 
people, well respond immediately.
When asked about crime on the campus 
area, Fadzen described much of it as petty 
theft, most of it preventable. Weve had a 
couple of ramsacked rooms. For our loca
tion, were in pretty good shape.
Phi O to raise funds for woman's heart transplant
LAURA GOLOWICH
[ial to The Tartan 
twenty-year old West Mifflin womans 
0.000 heart transplant operation will be 
ltially funded through the efforts of 
}ha Phi Omega.
Phi O is seeking support from CMU lents to raise money for Mary Lisa 
-lo varth, who is the daughter of Florence 
(sfelt, a Financial Aid office employee.
olzwarth discovered last June she was Bering from a condition called cardio apathy, in which the heart muscles 
large and become flabby. She was told her (scles would never return to their original 
e. Her only alternative was to undergo leart transplant operation. The operation 
luld take place anywhere from three Bnths to three years, depending on the 
liability of a suitable donor.
Holzwarth learned of her condition ten 
days after she was laid off from her full-time 
job which had been supporting her 22-year 
old husband and 9-month old son. She was 
denied Social Security benefits, and her hus
band works only part-time.
The Reverend George Margo at Holy 
Trinity Church established the Mary Lisa 
Malinowski Holzwarth Fund to finance the 
operation. The Church has so far raised ap
proximately $13,000 of the needed 5100,000. 
Most of this money was collected during a 
bowl-a-thon held last month.
A Phi O, the national service fraternity 
on campus, is joining the fundraising effort 
and asking students to participate. The 
fraternity will be announcing activities in the 
upcoming months from which all proceeds 
will go to the Holzwarth fund. A Phi Os an
nual Stuffed Sweethearts sale, to be held on 
February 11-13, will kick off the campaign.
Come one! Come all! to 
The Pre-Grand Opening
CAMPUS PUB
I in the Highlander
Room
| Friday, February 15th at 4:00 
j Free food and drink
I Dont miss it!
ofthe

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanFebruary 5, 1985
Job market future bright for technical writers
(Pittsburgh) With graduation four 
months away, Carnegie-Mellon University 
students majoring in technical and profes
sional writing have already received 15 per
cent of total job offers to CMU students.
The majority of these offers are from 
high-tech companies who have an enor
mous need for manuals and technical 
documentation, said J. Dennis Ryan, direc
tor of career services and placement at 
Carnegie - Mellon.
Last year, all of our 50 technical and pro
fessional writing majors who looked to high 
tech industries for jobs received multiple of
fers and are now employed, said Dr. Pete
Jones, associate head of the CMU English 
Department. He noted that job offers last 
year to all CMU liberal arts graduates had 
increased 89 percent over the preceding
year.
Ryan attributed the success of CMUs 
liberal arts students in the job market to the 
professional focus of the schools liberal arts 
programs.
Our technical writers have a good blend 
of business, management and technical skills 
and can handle a variety of assignments, 
he said.
Ryan said offers to the 1985 class of CMU 
liberal arts majors and engineering students
are either holding steady or increasing over 
last year.
This is significant because'opportunities 
for the nations graduates may not match 
earlier optimistic predictions, he added.
While emphasizing that it is too early to 
predict definitive trends in employment op
portunities for the Class of 1985, Ryan said 
that jobs for electrical engineering and com
puter majors continue to be abundant and, 
if anything, should increase.
The market for civil engineers will remain 
somewhat depressed because of the decline 
in construction and capital spending, but 
will be pretty good for mechanical
engineers, he said.
Job interviews for chemical engineJ 
students have increased 25 percent 
Ryan predicted that the marketplace] 
jobs will continue to be dull until the] 
companies begin hiring again.
Ryan predicted the 1985 will be I 
good but not outstanding year 
employment opportunities nationally j 
expressed concern that students may ] 
received false signals about the health of J 
job market and may have relaxed J 
search for jobs.
The jobs are out there, Ryan emph 
ed, but this years graduates will 
look a little harder than they expe
Minutes of the Student Senate,
January 29, 1985
The meeting was called to order at 7:50. 
Present:
Bach. Bianco. Chu. Cohen, Cramer. DeBroff, 
DeMelio, Denburg Goldstein, Harrison. Hynes. 
Ickes. Jagerski. King. McCormick, Miller. 
Mukherjee, Piscitello. Simmons. Soller. Taylor. 
Weller.
Absent:
Dorsey. Nichols. Salley (excused).
Audience Participation:
None.
President:
American Association of University Students 
has informed us that CMUs membership is 
about to lapse "bag that." Not worth the S200 
it costs the school.
The Bremmer House (behind Kappa Sigma) 
could be used for the student pub but is alleg
ed to be a fire hazard. Suggestion of investiga 
tion of possible uses for the house.
Report on campus pub plans for the 
Highlander Room will still be developed. A cam 
puswide party will be held in the pub on 
February 15th.
Parking Operations budget report by Eric 
Roc her: By April 21 parking allocations will have 
to be revised to better accomodate students.
Auxilliary Services Committee will meet in two 
weeks.
IFC:
Blood drive finished today as of 3:30. 189 
pints were collected.
Thursday an alcohol awareness program will 
be held in the ballroom 
Chairman:
Due to his continued absences John 
Carpenter will be officially removed from Senate.
Senate should look into problems with the 
campus shuttle. A list of complaints is current 
Iv being drafted by Karen DeMelio.
Snow is not being shovelled on the 
weekends  this situation also bears looking into.
A petition is being circulated to "move 
registration for the fall semester (1985^ current
ly scheduled for the week prior to finals." The 
petition calls for moving registration two weeks 
prior."
Vice-Chair:
Problems presented in the Senate by the au
dience will be more vigorously followed out from 
now on.
Rules:
With four vacancies in CFA four petitions 
have been filed to fill these vacancies. Presented 
in Senate were Mark Kissner. freshman. Art; Jay 
Brooks, freshman. Art: MarkGarrity. junior, ar 
chitect; Rich Hollibaugh. junior, architect. Mo
tion to accept all four by acclamation. Motion 
Passed.
Possible dates for Senate elections: Tuesday. 
April 16. and Wednesday. April 17. Vote to ac
cept these dates for election. Vote passes. 
Academic Affairs:
Cherie Jagerski is the Vice-Chair of this 
committee.
Reviewed tentative schedule for 1985-86. Peti
tions against this will be presented to President 
Cvert tomorrow. Suggestion of Senate 
endorsement.
1'he petition reads: We. the Student Senate, 
protest the tentative 1985-86 calendar, specifical 
lv the September 4 start of classes and the 
December 16-21 final exam period. We petition 
that this be revised to an August 27 start of 
classes with December 9-14 final exam period 
with the spring semester remaining as stated in 
the calendar with a January 14 start of classes.
Q: Is there any way to avoid Saturday finals? 
A: Were working on that.
Motion to endorse resolution Motion passed.
Question of comp center phone numbers: 
More information later.
Dr. Achenbaum will address Senate in the 
future concerning the Core Curriculum.
Q: Why was the transcript price increased? 
A: Registrars office is "running in the red.
Suggestion, regarding the proposed calendar, 
to move everything back a day to alleviate the 
need for Saturday finals. Could cause problems 
senior grades. Suggestion to remove one reading 
dav. Not very feasible because Senate represen
tatives requested it in the first place. Suggestion
to shorten spring semester bv one day.
G C & I:
Surveys were distributed Sunday and tht 
response was overwhelming concerning the need 
for Senate's work to be better publicized.
The Cockroach Subcommittee has been form 
ed and gone to the director of UDS with com 
plaints. They were told that the problem lies 
withing the old pipes in Skibo's basement all 
that can be done in continued extermination 
Suggestion for creating a more striking Senate 
logo as part of overall publicity campaign. 
New Business:
Motion that "Student Senate form an ad hoc | 
committee investigating the methods of alloca 
tion of students to committees such as Parking 
Tuition, etc.. and the methods of releasing this 
information to the population of CMU." 
Motion passed.
Problem in Doherty Hall primmaking 
studios explosions are an obvious health hazard 
and destroy work. Asbestos is in other studios 
Request to view the Physical Plant's last report 
of this situation.
General Discussion:
G C & I meetings are open to all. 
Suggestion of using Tartan articles as publicity 
mechanism.
Announcements:
Rules committee meeting Tuesday at 4:30. 
G C & I meeting Wednesday at 7:00. 
Meeting adjourned at 8:01.
Counseling & Student Development Center 
presents WORKSHOPS
MANAGING STRESS: How to cope with 
academic and personal pressures. 7 
Thursdays from 4:30-5:30, beginning 
February 14.
EATING DISORDERS GROUP: Ongoing support 
group for persons struggling with starvation, 
and/or binging/purging. Mondays from 
4:30-5:30, beginning February ll.
FAMILIES IN TRANSITION: An ongoing support 
group for students whose parents are 
separated or divorced. Thesdays from 
4:00-5:00. Begins February 12. 
UNDERSTANDING ADDICTION IN FAMILIES: Educa
tional support group for people who are con
cerned about a family member's abuse of 
alcohol and/or drugs. 8 Tuesdays from 
4:00-5:30; begins February 19.
WHAT DO YOU DO AFTER YOU SAY HELL? Learn 
how to-enhance your ability to relate to others. 
4 Wednesdays from 4:30-5:30; begins 
February 12.
For information and registration: call ext. 
2922 or sign up at E Tower, Morewood 
Gardens, Room 103.
* Division of Sin ciem Affairs
HISTORY FILM SERIES
COMING MONDAY, FEBUARY 1 1 AT 7PM IN THE ADAMSON WING (BH) 
JAMES CLAVELLS
THE LAST VALLEY
STARRING MICHAEL CAINE AND OMAR SHARIF
In the waning months of the 30 Years War (1618-1648), a 
fugitive teacher and a captain with his rag-tag mercenary 
troops descend on a German village yet unravaged by war.
James Clavell (author of Shogun) depicts the many acts of 
violence that came to this "last" valley, but we also see the 
hunger for peace during one of Europe's most violent eras.
NO ADMISSION CHARGE
Coming Attractions, all free and open to the CMU community:
March 4- Lafcacfil
April 8 - All the Pres i dents Men
All to be shown in the Adamson Wing (first Floor, BH) at 7PM 
Refreshments and discussion afterwards for those wishing to stay

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
a ^ O %  11  Effects may be reversible, 0|JIIIb says CMU professor
,y KATHY MURTAUGH
I rtan Staff writer
[Technology and industrialization are the 
L factors to progression. But in modern 
ciety we live not only with exaltation of adIncement but also fear. For the people of 
10pal. India, jrage^y offered an explicit 
lustration of this ironic truth as a chemical 
sociated with survival caused morbid
Bhopal
Metnyi isocyaiiaic (MIC) is a highly 
blatile toxin used in pesticides. According Dr. William Brown, associate professor of 
lological science at CMU, the MIC attacks 
le nervous system and destroys proteins in ]Je bloodstream. As a result, the kidney and 
[er become overworked in an attempt to 
the body of waste. Also, the toxin causes image to the cornea and watering of the
Brown believes long term effects of conination will depend largely on the dosage 
ch individual has received. He states, As 
Hig as there are no disrupted cells, all efJcts should be reversible. Reports are prov- this to be the case already.
Experts are unsure of long range effects 
Blarger doses. At greater doses, victims suf
fer burns and cell breakage, but according 6Dr. Brown research is limited at extremes. B asserts, We dont even have animals ted with such doses. We usually experi
ment using 1 part MIC to 1 million parts 
air. But the people of India received 25-50 
parts MIC to 1 million parts air.
This doesnt necessarily mean that these 
victims will inevitably die because of this 
contamination. They may all live normal life 
spans, but suffer from lung congestion, Dr. 
Brown adds.
Unlike other toxins such as dioxin, MIC 
will have very little aftereffect on the en
vironment. Moisture in the air mixes with 
the toxin to release carbon dioxide and an 
inert amine. It is only before this reaction 
occurs that the isocyanate is dangerous. 
When such a great amount leaked out, the 
concentration level was greater than that of 
the air, commented Brown. Despite the 
tremendous loss suffered by the Indians, they 
are fortunate to not have lost their homes 
and resources as well. According to Brown, 
the drinking water is safe, and already, peo
ple are starting to move back into their 
homes.
Although we are a more advanced socie
ty than Bhopal, we have more plants to be 
cautious of. Approximately 6000 facilities 
make hazardous chemicals and over 180,000 
shipments of these chemicals take place each 
day by truck and rail.
Geraldine Cox, vice president and 
chemical director for the Chemical 
Manufacturers Association, a trade group, 
states, We try to design safety into our 
systems. That sometimes requires frequent 
redundancy  for example, two valves 
where only one is needed.
Brown believes prevention lies in quality 
assurance. He asserts, Youve got to be sure
that if you put in two valves, they are two 
good valves.
Brown states, The chemical industry has 
been around for a long time. Were not talk
ing about new technology. Isocyanates were 
used in the 1920s to make rubber for tires. 
Only eight deaths occurred last year in 
chemical accidents at the plants.
Small accidents are always going to hap
pen, says Brown, but youve got to be 
trained well. Engineers and scientists have 
to be able to look at something and notice 
when something is wrong. We must have the
integrity to correct these errors regardless of 
money involved.
According to Brown, what it all comes 
down to is quality training, personal integri
ty, and common sense on the job. Errors can 
be the result of such overlooked things as a 
flaw in the steel with which a valve is con
structed, states Brown.
Here at Carnegie-Mellon, we prepare to 
take on the challenges of a high-tech socie
ty. Accidents will happen, Brown believes, 
Our best defense lies in quality profes
sionals.'
photo by Olve Peersen
^est defense against accidents is quality professionals, says Dr. William Brown
lud above).
Classroom experience helps
Architecture and Psychology 
combine on Children's School
By SARA YANT
Special to The Tartan
Not many architecture undergraduates 
see their designs built in true-io-life scale. 
Few psychology students have the opportuni-1 
research questions posed out
side of the classroom setting. But 
these undergraduate fantasies 
were realized recently in the re
cent playground rebuilding pro
ject at the Carnegie-Mellon Universtiy 
Children's School.
Fourteen architecture students from Pro
fessor Walter Boykowiczs studio were given 
the assignment to design and build the new 
playground. The playground had to me 
monitored after it was built, to see how well 
it met its purpose. The monitoring task was 
given to a psychology student.
The new playground was designed with 
two related purposes. The school needed a 
safer entrance, and the playground was to 
be a learning environment.
One criteria for a safe environment is a 
place with clearly defined boundaries. It is 
thought in such a place children will feel 
safer; they will be more comfortable explor
ing the many learning opportunities.
The playground would provide these op
portunities by having facilities writh flexibili
ty permitting children to discover many im
aginative uses. Concepts children learned in 
the classroom could also be luilt into the 
design.
My task, as the psychology student, was 
to monitor the playground to see if it met 
design criteria. This involved defining 
cognitive play, where children were playing 
with ideas, in terms of very specific, obser
vable actions. For example, counting 
backwards in a countdown sequence is a
cognitive behavior. As I got involved 1 realiz
ed I was part of the whole philosophy. I knew 
I was part of the learning environment the 
first day I began the timing work.
One boy notified the entire group, Does 
anyone wanna see a stopwatch?" The crowd 
made observations impossible that day, but 
the children learned something about time 
concepts.
As time progressed, I found myself draw
ing on classroom experience in research 
methods, cognitive and developmental 
psychology classes, and education classes. 
Actually, it took some creative thinking to 
measure cognitive play.
The playground does some of the things 
it was designed to do, but not all of them. 
Improvements will be made from this feed
back and results re-evaluated. The concepts 
I was working with became more concrete 
to me. Im sure this is true for the architec
ture students also. I think anytime we ac
tually get involved with real situations and 
experiments, we learn more. Its like those 
museums that permit you to get involved 
with exhibits unlike museums with the 
look but dont touch" philosophies.
There are many opportunities for students 
here at CMU to get involved through intern
ships and working with professors on their 
research. A friend of mine, who is pre-med. 
does hemoglobin research. Another friend, 
a drama student, has a job in a touring 
theater company. It just takes planning and 
initiative. For anyone who feels they arent 
getting everything they could from their 
education, I recommend it. One thing you 
will find, real life problems dont always have
ly crafted by teacher assistants.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanFebruary 5, 1985
C.J. Barney's
Nachos, steak, chicken delicious at Barney's
By DON GAMBLE
Special to The Tartan
and KATRIN WESNER
Tartan Production Manager 
The question of alternatives to, the Tartan 
Grill came up in a discussion last Sunday. 
After racking our brains for some time to 
think of some place close with good food and 
gg reasonable prices, the name C.J. 
Barneys came to mind. After 
checking it with a few people 
who had visited C.J.s, we decid
ed to give it a try.
Trodding down the snow-covered 
sidewalks on Forbes Avenue into Oakland, 
we arrived at C.J.s, situated between The 
O's hot dog shop and a storefront. The 
restaurant looks like a high-class-only place, 
but, rest assured, common-folk are more 
than welcome. The menu posted in the win
dow boasts of fine food and reasonable 
prices.
Waitress polite
Once inside, we were greeted by a smil
ing hostess, who led us through the full din
ing room to a small table near the bar. Rock 
music played at a very low volume. Our table 
was a very poor choice, since it was tucked 
into a corner, next to a huge stereo speaker, 
and right in the draft from the front win
dow. However, a waitress was with us pro
mptly, and she was polite, making us feel 
comfortable and welcome. The service was 
good overall.
Food brought quickly
Likewise, the food was very good. For an 
appetizer we ordered nachos and cheese. 
They were brought quickly and were tasty.
The chips were fresh and crispy, an(j 
cheese was hot and gooey. Next we ] 
salad that had a fine assorting 
vegetables in it. The main dishes 
next steak tips with onion 
chicken fingers parmesan.
rings
The wait for the food was about! 
minutes. The dishes were not exa 
overflowing with food, but they proved 
big enough.
Rings tasty
The steak was cooked exactly as ordi 
and a small order of crispy onion ringsc 
with it. The rings were also tasty.
The chicken was also fried crispy, j 
covered with a delicious parmesan toppj 
Both dishes came with large side ord 
homecut-style shoestring French fries
By the time we had finished, we i 
bloated. We had no room for dessen 
hoped the walk back to CMU would! 
off some of our meal.
Next came the surprising part-the 
For all this food, two sodas and the ti] 
paid about S20, which we felt  
reasonable price. We left fully satisfied 
grateful for a break from the UDSm 
In short, if its a good dinner you want, 
youre short on cash, C.J. Barneys iss 
one place to try.
DECISIONS, DECISIONS, DECISIONS . . . 
Almost time for H&SS sophomores to make final deci
sions about declaring their major, and time for 
freshmen to begin thinking seriously about the choice 
and options available. H&SS departments have plann
ed presentations and information sessions for pro
spective majors according to the following schedule:
Social Sciences
Public Policy and Management
Information Systems
Political Science
Political Economy
Monday, Feb. 11 
4:30 p.m.
Adamson Wing
Psychology 
Coginitive Psychology 
Social Psychology 
Developmental Psychology
Tuesday, Feb. 12 
4:30 p.m.
Baker Hall 336B
Modern Languages 
French 
German 
Spanish
Tuesday, Feb. 12 
4:00 p.m.
Baker Hall 246A
History
History
Applied History
Thursday, Feb. 14 
4:30 p.m.
Baker Hall 254C
StatisticsMonday, Feb. 18 
5:00 p.m.
Baker Hall 132
English
Techical Writing 
Professional Writing 
Creative Writing 
Literary and Cultural Studies
_ .
Tuesday, Feb. 19 
5:00 p.m.
Baker Hall 245
Li
Ouu
CMU
Computer Store
512k macintosh. Image writer w/cable, Exierf Disk Drive, Dust Covers and 2 boxes of 3'j disks......as little as $91 00/month .**
?as little as $76 00/month lath 128k Mac 
 Mellon Bonk Cre<Jit-on-Call Financing is available 
at the Computer Store

---------------------------------------------------

February 5, 1985The TartanPage 7
CSPO helps students obtain employmentOne program aids in summer work; New addition for
By PETER CORTLAND
Tartan Staffwriter
Setting yourself up for employment, while 
| wallowing in the woes of CMU, can be a job 
in itself. Job-finding is time-consuming, 
frustrating, and wageless. The Career Ser
vices and Placement Office (CSPO) is mak
ing the process a little easier for everyone.
Located on the ground floor of Warner 
Hall, this program has been a medium bet
ween students and employers since CMUs 
first graduating class. More recently, the staff 
has increased to offer what Director Dennis 
Ryan calls new dimensionsof assistance to 
students. The staff has done exceedingly 
well, says Ryan.________________________________________
|Career placement
One division of the program, started three 
years ago and directed by Judi Mancuso, 
deals with helping all interested students 
find part-time or summer jobs. Mancusos 
work also helps to introduce students to the 
career division of the CSPO.
To help students find positions on a career 
Blevel, two of the CSPO staff, Bob Nelson for 
CIT, MCS, and IM students, act as advisors 
in arranging interviews by visiting recruiters. 
Once the student has met with an advisor 
and given copies of his resume, an interview7 
is arranged to take place about three weeks
career planning
later. This gives the student time to research 
the company and prepare for the interview. 
Company bulletins and corporation infor
mation available in the CSPO library also 
help.
Ryan quite excited
The newest addition to the career plann
ing program is only a week old, and Ryan 
says it is almost too early to discuss. This im
provement, run by Dr. Roberta Richards, is 
designed for younger students in all 
dpartements, particularly freshmen and 
sophomores, who find themselves question
ing their future in relation to their sense of 
values. Richards acts as a guide through 
career decision making processes. Ryan 
describes this aspect of the program as com
plimentary to the existing services, and 
although Richards contributions are still 
quite fresh in this position, Ryan says he is 
quite excited.
The program has been succesful for all in
volved ----------students, staff, and employees.
The advantage to employers and students in 
meeting on a one-to-one basis is immense, 
making the program one of the best 
around, says Ryan. For their tireless and ef
ficient assistance, the staff should also be 
pleased. The numerous jobi offered to the 
students are philanthropic, as well as 
statistical, rewards.
Need exists
The only lacking aspect to the CSPO is 
the level of motivation on the part of 
students. Many are not aware of all the 
aforementioned services offered, and
Career Services strives to meet student needs in finding jobs
therefore hesitate to make use of them. Un- create a need, but we can show the students
fortunately, the student frequently needs that the need exists. When oppurtunity
these services. As Ryan says, We cannot knocks, be at the CSPO to answer the door.
ATTENTION ALL CAMPUS ORGANIZATIONS: 
The Senate Rules Committee sponsors this year's
OKNMfeNK 4:.>CCmXBONKflK-MHUK
ORGANIZATIONAL SURVEY
All funded and non-funded organizations must complete the survey 
form and return it to the Rules Committee mailbox at the Skibo 
Information Desk.
tjmomc** momk .^goacoat: urnc yam xmuxmcxmc mm
Forms due by FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1985
< y&< y** y&< ymc wrw
Failure to complete this survey jeopardizes your status as a 
recognized organization and may result in freezing of funds. 
Forms are available at the Skibo Info Desk.

---------------------------------------------------

Before College ... 
There is Pre-College.
Relive the experience as counselor for the 
19S5 Pre- College Program at C.M.U. this
SUifir.
Applications can be picked up in the Summer 
Studies Office, 108 Warner Hall, or at the Skibo 
Information Desk starting January 23, 1985-
Applications must be returned to the Summer 
Studies Office by February 15-
Plan to attend our informal information session to 
learn more about summer employment opportunities 
in the Pre-Col lege Program on Wednesday, February 
13th in the Wherrett Room from 4:00 to 5:30 p.m.
Be a part of the C.M.U. Summer 
as it comes alive in '85-
AB Lectures
presents
An Evening with
ROBERT KLEIN
Monday, February 11th 
8:00 p.m. Skibo Ballroom
Tickets will go on sale Wed., Jan. 30th 
at Skibo Info Desk 
$1.00 w/CMU ID, $2.00 w/o
Funded by Activities Fee j

---------------------------------------------------

Exalted Playing that glows
with expressive warmth and vitality.  LONDON TIMES
The Pittsburgh Symphony Society 
presents
Alexander Schneider, Conductor 
Cecile Licad, Pianist
Dvorak's Serenade for Strings 
Beethoven's Piano Concerto No. 3 
Mozart's Symphony No. 38 (Prague)
Tickets: $15,12; Student and Senior Citizen Half Price:
$7.50, 6 at Heinz Hall Box Office and Pitt/CMU/Duquesne 
Student Unions Or Cail TicketCharge: 392-4900.
Thursday, Feb. 14, 8:00 PM 
Carnegie Music Hall Oakland
February 5# 1985The TartanPage 9
The Oakland Review is now accep
ting submissions of poetry, short fic
tion, one-act plays, essays, and blackand-white artwork and photographs 
tor its 1985 edition. Submissions may 
be placed in care of the Editor, 
Oakland Review, at the Skibo Infor
mation Desk. For any questions or 
special accommodations call 
Cathleen Barnhart at 362-3787. 
Deadline for submissions is March 1.
Implosion" causing market glut
'omp sci majors warned to acquire secondary skills
DAVID GAEDE
lege Press Service
When 19-year old William Green enrollat the University of Texas last year, he ma- cd in computer programming because I 
0y working with computers, the job 
rket looked good, and there were opporities for making a very good salary. 
Since then, the number of students enterthe computer science curriculum has 
i like an explosion, Green says, 
assrooms are overcrowded, you can hardet time on the computer system, and just 
s semester I had to take a higher level 
rse than I wanted because everything else 
is full or not offered."
Glut of job market
^nd now his job hopes may be fading,
1 The very explosion" of computer proImming majors which is hampering 
tens education also threatens to glut the 
i market when he graduates, turning his 
time ticket to job security into a onepass to the unemployment office. 
Its happening on campuses nationwide. 
Coupled with a new interest in computer 
[irses even among non technical majors, 
jerfunded, and underequipped computer 
kce departments are being pushed to the 
jits to accomodate the mushrooming deInd for courses.
Indiana University students, for instance, 
It even get basic computer literacy courses 
[ause the already-strained computer 
[nee department cant afford to fund
of potential instructors into high-paying 
jobs, no new comp sci professors have been 
added since 1980.
The University of Illinois-Urbana next fall 
will begin limiting the number of computer 
science majors it admits because officials 
can't keep up with the hordes of students 
demanding the major, says comp sci depart
ment head Edward Ernst.
The Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology which already bans computer 
science transfers from other schools-also 
just voted to limit comp sci enrollment next 
year, as has the Rensselaer Polytechnic In
stitute in New York. Comp sci majors, along 
with electrical engineers, make up one-third 
of all majors at both schools.
Additional faculty
Greens UT-Austin is adding 15 new com
puter science professors in the next three 
years so it can tap deeper into the comp sci 
market. The additional faculty should allow 
the school to admit 500 more computer 
science students by 1987.
The number of computer science 
students has simply increased much faster 
than our ability to serve them," explains Nell 
Dale, associate chair of UTs computer 
science department.
Right now, the jobs are there and the 
recruiting is very intense, she says. But if 
youre talking about all the job openings for 
programmers and the other specialists con
tinuing indefinitely, they probably wont. 
Until then, we have to respond to the de
mand.
according to the National Center for Educa
tion Statistics.
This spring, an estimated 30,000 more 
comp sci graduates will invade the job 
market, commanding an average 525,000 
yearly salary from hungry employers waiting 
to hire them.
"Computer science is on the the two hot
test degrees (along with electrical engineer
ing) in the country in terms of demand, 
notes Victor Lindquist, placement at Nor
thwestern University and director of the 
school's annual Endicott Report on the job 
market for college graduates.
The demand right now, he adds, seems 
almost insatiable.
But the comp sci bubble may be on the 
verge of bursting.
Little demand in long term
In the short run, there is still a very strong 
demand for people in the computer science 
area. But in the longer term, there will be 
very little demand for them, warns Henry 
Levin, an expert on education and 
technology at Stanford.
Of the 28 million new job openings in the
next decade, the U.S. Bureau of Labor 
statistics projects that only about 1.5 million 
will be in high technology' industries.
And among those, Levin says, most will 
be blue collar and management-level posi
tions that won t require any kind of specializ
ed degree.
Technological advances lowers demand
In the future, supercomputers will do 
much of the computer designing and pro
gramming, Levin explains. And other 
technological advances, generic software 
development, and cutbacks in military and 
corporate research will further lower the de
mand for computer experts.
I think market and technological changes 
could very well reduce the number of oppor
tunities for computing majors in the future," 
concurs Northwesterns Lindquist.
It recently happened to chemical 
engineers, he says.
The same thing could happen in the com
puter sciences, he warns, and any comp sci 
major would do well to make sure he or she 
has good communication and secondary 
skills to fall back on."
THE BASICS OF THE ABORTION ISSUE
Speaker: Cecile Heckler, pro-life feminist, executive 
director of Pennsylvanians for Human Life Southwest Region.
Movie: A Matter of Choice
Place: The Wherrett Room, Skibo
Time: Thursday, Feb. 7th, 7:00 pm
For more information call Chris Keane, 621-2911
No new compsci professors
exas A&Ms computer science enrollment 
doubled in the last three years, but 
ause of funding problems and an exodus
More to invade market
Between 1977 and 1982 alone, the number 
of computer science graduates tripled from 
under 7,000 to a whopping 20,267 a year,

---------------------------------------------------

Photography.
photo by Mike Pilewsfc
Each step forward an accomplishment, weary explorers set off across the Skibo 
parking lot. j
piloto by Peter Rosenfeld
Excessive sunlight reflects from an inhabitant of the GSIA courtyard
KLA INSTRUMENTS
a leader in Industrial Image Processing 
Systems, will be recruiting on campus on 
Feb. 13, 1985. We invite you to explore 
career options with KLA 
We will be interviewing for: 
Quality/Reliability Engineers 
Product Introduction Engineers 
Digital Design Engineers 
Image Processing Software Engineers
For more information, contact the CS&P 
office, or call Terri Rees (collect) at 
408-496-2054
photo by Mike Pile
Late at night, Fifth Avenue is transformed into a lonely procession of streetlamj
We are an equal opportunity employer M/F/H
NO PURCHASE NECESSARY
Bring in this ad for a free pair of leather-faced work gloves 
($3.00 retail value) when you join our Rental Club (no 
membership fee). Rental Club card entitles you to 10% 
discounts on all rentals at your U-Haul Center. Find us in 
the white pages.CMU
Computer Store
256k IBID PC, 2 disk drives, monochrome DispM Display/Printer Adapter, Asynchronous Adapter, DOS, Epsilon, Scribble, Kermit, micro Spell and a box of double-sided disks as little as...........$91.00/month*
* Mellon Bank Credit-on-Call Financing is available at 
The Computer Store
SPECIAL OFFER TO INTRODUCE YOU TO RENT N SAVESM EQUIPMENT

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
The tradiiiQIl returnspeaux Arts Ball planned for February 23rd
I CHRISTY CASAMASSIMA
-ton Staff writer
If there was ever, an event not to miss, its 
I Beaux Arts Ballthe scale of it is inJnprehensible. Its the party of the year, 
, thats rich in tradition. Every four years, Ball transforms the Fine Arts building 
lo halls of Dionysian revelry where all three 
rs set the stage for a most elaborate orgy 
food, drink, and entertainment.
|This year's theme is, Night" where dark 
Jtasies come to life as thousands gather in 
Itume to celebrate for festivities sake. On 
I particular night, faculty and students 
he to take part in the frenzy.
In France, the Parisian Ecole des Beaux 
J a valedictory affair where students of the 
I arts celebrated the closing of the school |r. Back in 1915, Henry Hornbostel induced the ball to CMU, when the theme 
, The Original Toga Party. In the beging, the ball was held each year. Perhaps 
e of the balls mystique today lies in the that it comes only after a four year wait, reparation for the Ball is well underway, 
tudents of drama, art music, architec- , and design collaborate their efforts to 
amorphosize the College of Fine Arts, 
re are crew's working on lighting, decora- entertainment and food. There will be 
sical music, performed by the music artment, and a variety of music for difnt dancing tastes. There are a number ands planned, including George G., 
x, Actual Size, Art Now, The Swampd, The Most Dangerous Band in Pittgh, and The Sticky Boys. Moreover, 
e will be a thirty piece orchestra, a jazz
The 1981 Beaux Arts Ball featured a huge mobile dragon worn by over a dozen men
choir, an organist and a strolling violinist. 
If thats not enough, there will also be Sly 
Jock the D.J., blasting disco through the 
night. Other forms of entertainment will in
clude magicians and mimes. Bands will play 
until the wee hours and a breakfast buffet 
will be spread out at 4:00 a.m.
Even alumni will get into the act. They'll
tarship Enterprise docks at Doherty Hall
LESLEY BRUNKER
pn Staffwriter 
Hi the late sixties, television producer 
le Roddenberry wanted to create a show 
Jhich he could make inobvious politicalfientary.
Hep one: create an international cast. 
If engineer: a Scot. Helmsmen: a Rusand a Japanese. Communications of- H: a black woman. The doctor: a good joy. Science officer: an alien. Second in 
Fnand: a woman, And in charge: the H^g but sensitive captain.
BBC responded poorly to the premier 
j)dewhich was late; sliced to form the 
^back sequences in The Menagerie ^cularly to the woman second in charge, 
m alien and those ears. Roddenbury 
J)lied partially by revamping the show, 
ln woman but bringing the Vulcan 
|ftore strongly and by bringing in fresh 
lactor William Shatner to play Captain 
fs Tiberius Kirk.
Star Trek died a peaceful death after three 
seasons, not to achieve its cult following, un
til its syndication in the mid-seventies. What 
made the show such a sacred goat that Star 
Trek movies 2 and 3 were necessary to undo 
the sacrilege done by Star Trek, The Motion 
Picture?
There is, of course, its charm. The 
antique-futuristic science. The very thinly 
masked socio-political themes. The melting 
pot crew. The homey feel of the character 
interactions. The nicknames. The sex 
scenes hinted by Kirks pulling on his boots 
at bedside. And those damned ears. . .
Both The Wrath of Khan and The Search 
For Spock, playing this Friday and Saturday 
(respectively) on campus, recreate the 
original flavour of the show fairly well.
Khan in particular plays like an original 
episode, though Kirk tends to be a bit cocky 
and the end is unusually melodramatic. It 
picks up fifteen years after Kirk & Co. leave 
the muscular Khan (Ricardo Montalban 
Fantasy Island does him no justice) and his 
band of genetically superior thugs to con
quer a planet of their own.
A probe ship  the crew of which includes 
Checkov  searching for a test site for the 
Genesis Project instead finds the re
mainder of Khan's band. At first, Khan 
merely w^ants Kirk. Then, upon discovering 
the secret of Genesis, he gets greedy, and  
and Kirk comes to the rescue.
The Search For Spock continues where 
Khan leaves off. "While theoretically, Spocks 
body has died, his mind is alive" inside 
McCoy. Thus, he is trapped in the Vulcan 
equivalent of Night of the Living Dead. The 
film focuses on developing the Vulcan 
culture and character. Cerebral, but 
endearing.
While it is impossible to completely resur
rect the atmosphere of Star Trek, the Televi
sion Series, Star Trek 2 and 5 will do as a 
temporary fix for most trekkies.
isney's Fantasia is a welcome change
ANTHONY A. DATRI 
Entertainment Editor 
We you tired of senseless teenage sex 
es? ^re you faced with the prospect of 
W through Friday the 13th Part XLII? 
u are, there is relief in sight (and sound) 
H an old classic, Walt Disneys Fantasia. 
finally released in 1940, Fantasia is the 
Pn animators art.The smooth, 
shapes of classical animation are a 
J from the jerky movements of
 modern cartoons, which show robotic 
Wters mving around on an unchang Aground. I he coloring is a welcome
 ni the bland, even coloring of newer 
W utilizing a wide variety of smoothly
Mina is colors along w'ith brilliant
ts 1 hey don't make them like thislore.
annnated segments range from the
I aru (*t0 l^e somber, from the serious
to the whimsical. One depicts the playful 
romps of sythical creatures in the lands of 
Mount Olympus, and another re-enacts the 
whole of evolution complete with battling 
dinosaurs. On the lighter side is a ballet per
formed by ostriches, alligators, elephants, 
and hippos. An amusing extra is a portrayal 
of the well-known Sorcerors Apprentice by 
none other than Mickey Mouse, and perhaps 
the most striking sequence is the two-part 
finale, which develops from a demon's fury 
to heavenly serenity.
The soundtrack of Fantasia features the 
works of the great composers, and ranges 
from soothing to exciting. Among the 
classics are Johann Sebastian Bachs Toccata 
and Fugue in D minor and Peter Tchaikovsky s immortal Nutcracker Suite. Especially 
fitting is Modest Mussorgskys Night on Bald 
Mountain, which builds to ta tense climax 
in the first part of the finale.
The orchestra for the original soundtrack 
was conducted by the gifted Leopold 
Stokowski, whose recent death sparked the 
rerelease of this classic film. The new release 
is dedicated to Stokowski, and features a new 
stereo soundtrack. The new soundtrack was 
conducted by Irwin Kostal.
The only negative aspect of Fantasia is the 
short segments that serve to segue between 
the animated sequences. They consist largely 
of views of the orchestra and the conductor 
with a narrator explaining the next 
animated segment and accompanying 
music. The narrator sound like the voice on 
the movies and filmstrips that we all endured 
in grade school, and doesnt tell us much 
that we couldnt see for ourselves.
Interestingly enough, there are a few brief 
glimpses of nudity", even though this film 
is rated G. All in all Fantasia is an enchan 
ting film that will enthrall and amuse you.
materialize from their respective homes and 
occupations to join in the irresponsibility for 
the night. They come from far and wide to 
take part in the biggest costume bash in 
years.
Four years ago, the Bal Fantastique turn
ed out such oddities as a ubiquitious fire 
breathing dragon worn by over a dozen men 
and women, a man scantily clad in Saran 
Wrap, a bar of soap, a bearded nun and a 
sadist. The evening was a huge success that 
proved well worth the planning.
This year, as Night approaches, the 
comittees are going all-out. There will be 
1,300 in attendance dancing, drinking and 
living it up. Thousands of dollars go into 
such a gala; S10,000 was spent on food 
alone. Entertainment ran up to S8,000 and 
decoration a mere S2,000. Thats not men
tion costs for publicity, security and 
maintenance.
Traditionally, costumes created by the 
particpants are worn on the night of the 
ball. In fact, students in France, were given 
a month off from school to devise costumes 
that related to theme of the evening. In past 
years, the costumers have contributed to the 
aura of the ball as much as the scenery itself. 
Formal attire is an acceptable substitute for 
costume, but its certainly an unoriginal 
escape.
After midnight, hors-doeuvres and finger 
food will put out to nibble on enough to 
tide over until the breakfast is laid out. 
There will be wine and beer flowing con
stantly throughout the evening, loosening 
tongues and uninhibiting the masses.
continued on page 14
Contest
If you think you get
NO 
RESPECT
then theres a way to get some. The 
Tartan has two tickets to Rodney 
Dangerfields February. 16th show at 
the Syria Mosque, and YOU can win 
them. All you have to do is write 
down, in 25 words or less, why you 
think you get no respect. Then drop 
it off at the Skibo Information Desk 
c/o The Tartan. Deadline is 7:00 pm 
on Wednesday, February 13th. Please 
include your name, address, and 
phone number. The winner will be 
notified on Thursday, February 14th. 
Tickets courtesy of DiCesare-Engler.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanFebruary 5, 1985
TU Cno+Q+nK1 New reviewer begins series on CMU I lit; opci/lalUl. theatre productions with Ashes
Bv JONATHAN STEELE
Special to The Tartan
The Spectator takes off his spectacles, and 
ponders a new season of spectacles. CMU s 
Department of Drama has a typical hurley 
burley of activity scheduled for Spring 1985. 
What wonders are in store for this feckless 
reviewer? What debacles? What highs? What 
lows? My weekly prowlings will take me on 
a Romantic quest, hither and yon, leading 
to three destinations.
The Spectator
First is the prestigious Kresge Theater in 
the Fine Arts Building. Here mainstage 
shows are directed by faculty and visiting 
guests. These are Dramas big budget, fully 
teched extravaganzas. Molieres The Misan
thrope, directed by Barbara Baxley, and 
John Gays The Beggars Opera, directed by 
Drama Chairman Mel Shapiro, are this 
Springs entries
My second location will be the Studio 
Theatre. Here are presented numerous 
Senior and MFA projects. These tend to be 
energetic and risk taking. The Studio shows 
for this Spring will be a typically mixed bag. 
Check each week for listings.
Finally, Ill make my way to a small space 
in the bowels of Margaret Morrison, affec
tionately, but accurately, known as The Rat 
Trap. Here are found more experimental 
works, which will appeal to those with a 
curious mind, and a strong constitution.
The Spectator will have his quill sharpen
ed to record his reactions to the theatrics 
looming on the horizon. At this point, he 
will be assuming an eclectic point of view. 
But, as the season grinds on, he may find 
interpretational and ideological positions to 
debate. Lets start off with the latest cam - 
pus play.
Ashes, by David Rudkin. is a powerful, 
beautifully written drama about the efforts 
of Colin, a seconday school teacher who had 
been a playwright, and his wife Anne, 
formerly an actress, to have a child. They 
go to specialist after specialist who instruct 
them to try numerous methods of concep
tion, none of which reach fruitionThe cause 
of their ina bility to conceive shifts from Col
in to Anne depending on the theory of the 
doctor. Eventually Ann does get pregnant, 
but she miscarries and has a hysterectomy. 
They then try to adopt a baby. But, after 
Colin returns grom a harrowing trip to 
Nothern Ireland, they learn they can not 
adopt, and they resign themselves to being 
alone. Since Colin is a Northern Ireland Pro
testant and Anne is English, their fruitless 
struggle becomes a metaphor for the sterili
ty of the age-old struggles between Pro
testants and Catholics in Northern Ireland. 
Further, the blind savagery of these pre
judices are warnings of mans benighted 
movement along the path to his own extinc
tion. Rudkin urges Lhe questioning of basic 
traditions in Northern Ireland, and by im 
mplication. the basic conceptions and 
morality that are the foundation of our 
civilization as a whole. In this way, he feels 
that the heritage of violence, prejudice and 
fear can be altered.
Rudkin's writing is graphic, but powerful
ly poetic. The play is structurally flawed 
because two important themes, the northern 
irish conflict and the danger of nuclear 
holocaust, are tacked on gratuitously at the 
end. Also, it could be a problem for 
American audiences to understand all the 
nuances and allusions of the Riesh inflec
tions in Colins speech.
As Colin, Aaron Kjenass has a wry, witty 
sincerity which is appealling. But, he seems 
youthful for the role, and he doesnt always 
reach his characters depths of pain and 
despair. Deborah Turcotte, as Anne, projects 
tha pain and frustration of her character 
clearly and movingly. At times she tries too 
hard, but she gives a strong, sensitive per-.
formance^ Court Whixman and .Re 
Shlegel do yeomans work portraying sevj 
Scottish and English characters of van 
class and background. Whisman portray! 
gaggle of Gynocological Specialists lViJ 
humor and intelligence, While Schiei 
scores with an officious County Adoptj0j 
Officer. Brad Whites direction is exuber 
and gutsy. His visual imagery is strong aii! 
clear, and he uses his age- fully.1 He elicit* 
strong performances from his actod 
However, at the performance I attended, t 
set changes dragged excessively, and thee 
ding was not clear, leaving the audience r 
knowing that the play was over. Settings jj 
Shawn Crawford were appropriate for | 
starkness of the material.s Light Design! 
David Hill worked well, especially, 
silhouette effect behind a curtain. 
Sound Design by John Frazee was unevei
ASHES was a senior project. It ^ 
presented January 28-29m 1985 in the Stu 
Theatre.
Laurie Anderson caught in concert
By GEORGE FEIL
Special to the Tartan
Laurie AndersonUnited States Live 
(Warner)
For die-hard Laurie Anderson fans, this 
five-album recording of her performance at 
the Brooklyn Academy of Music in New 
York City February 7-10, 1983, will be the 
next best thing to reaching Heaven. Most of 
the songs are previously unreleased material, 
with some of her more familiar pieces com
ing from her first album, Big Science.
Laurie Anderson encompasses much of 
her creativity shown in previous live perfor
mances with such special effects as mouth 
speakers, a tape bow violin (played by rubbing a bow made of pre-recorded audio tape
against an audio playback head), harmonizers that raise and lower the pitch of 
her voice, and a contact microphone attach
ed to her glasses which turns her head into 
a drum. As in much of her previous work, 
a Synclavier, a violin, saxophones and other 
wind instruments, and various computer 
equipment make up most of the instrumen
tation, complemented with percussion by 
David Van Tighem.
Many of the pieces mix spoken lyrics that 
are at times humorous with various in
strumental themes. Many have social and 
political implications, but fit in without the 
album coming off as being apocolyptic.
Complementing these are excellent perfoJ 
mances of Big Science, O Superman, 
Let x = x, which are among her more; 
claimed works.
Because performance art attempts i 
make the visual element as integral a ] 
of the show as the music itself, this collet! 
tion loses much of the air and emotion] 
the original performance, giving it a lack! 
completeness. However, this didnt prevtj 
me from enjoying this album as much < 
did Andersons previous two works. The 1 
price of this album may not warrant buj 
ing this if you are not particularly into ti 
works of performing artists, but you ceraij 
ly get your moneys worth if you do.
Correctly identify the titles of the three movies below and you 
may win a free pass to Columbia Pictures' new movie Fast 
Forward. It is a film about eight young performers who take a 
million-to-one dance challenge.
Turn in your entry to Skibo Information Desk in care of The 
Tartan by Thursday, February 7th at 3:30 pm. Please include 
your name and phone number. The passes will be for Thursday, 
February 7th at the Fiesta Theatre.
 iff if* ?iff Iff  Cf ***it* vvi vf ti m
 ci * it m 
Special
Interest
Houses
The Housing Office is now accepting applications from groups of students who would like t0 
be considered for residency in one of the 4 Special Interest Houses.
Each Special Interest House is a 4-bedroom. 8-person apartment in the Margaret Morrison 
residence complex. In order to be eligible for consideration as a Special Interest House.  student 
group must have at least eight members, and one or two alternates if at all possible.
The specific goal of the Housing Office in providing the Special Interest Houses is 
encourage situations' where the living environment compliments the learning opportunities of the 
residents involved and where specific educational goals outlined by the member-residents are
understood and enhanced.
If more than 4 groups of students submit applications for these Special Interest Houses, J 
decision will be based on a comparison of the educational goals presented and the likelihood of 
serious educational benefit being derived from residency in this type of living situation.
Application forms are available in the Housing Office aud must be filled out and returned by
BY FEB. 8th, 1985

---------------------------------------------------

February 5, 1985The TartanPage 13
New music shows variety of styles
By MARK ISKOWITZ
Tartan Staffwriter
1. SadeDiamond. Life (Portrait)
This refreshing, endlessly pleasing album 
marks the dazzling American debut of one 
of Britains most cherished young talents. 
Sade (Shar-Day), a gifted songstress and 
singer, swings and grooves almost effortless
ly, hypnotizing you with every track. Her 
self-penned songs, like Smooth Operator 
and I Will Be Your Friend, are emotionfilled pronouncements by a romantic, 
strong-willed woman. Sade Adu refuses to 
fit into any particular slot, and why should 
she? Here is a brilliant definitive statement 
of musical independence, combining the 
magical elements of blue-eyed soul and jazz.
2. Lloyd Cole and the Commotions
 Rattlesnakes (Geffen)
Just what is it about Lloyd Cole, the latest 
cottish arrival, that lures me further with 
very listen? Perhaps its his unpredictabili
ty. Folk singer one minute and romantic the 
next. Or, maybe I respect a smart songwriter 
who can tell an exciting story through witty 
lyrics and harmonic guitar lines. All this and 
more attract me, including his distinctive 
nasal voice learned from Edwyn Collins and 
Lou Reed. Another bright new star on the 
horizon.
3. The Beat FarmersTales Of the New 
West (Rhino)
Can't help but partake in the unrestrained 
fun of a young cowpunk band. Produced 
with punch and polish by Los Loboss Steve 
Berlin, this record is wall-to-wall impressive. 
12 spirited songs, including Lou Reeds 
There She Goes Again with help from the 
Kinman (Rank And File) Brothers, roll 
along at a fever pitch. The band prides itself 
on the stylish rockabilly/Texas blues 
vocalizin of three of its members. An ex
citing first effort by a thrilling American 
group?
4. The Prime MoversMatters of Time 
(Throbbing Lobster)
Out of Boston, one of todays most 
musically fertile areas, bursts The Prime 
Movers. Their raw neo-psychedelic delivery 
relies on flaming guitars and relentless snare, 
not to mention Cam Acklands bluesish, 
Bolanesque singing. Come To Where Its 
At, they exclaim with the burning urgency 
of a street gang ready for war.
5. Current 93Dogs Blood Rising (Laylah 
Benelux)
The latest effort by a perpetually confus
ing but provocative group focuses on 
Catholicisms hypocrisy. Atonal industrial 
and electronic sounds join with choral 
chants and brutal solo poetry. The albums 
two major pieces, Falling Back in Fields of 
Rape and Jesus W7ept lament the fall of 
humanity with intense gloom. Of course, it 
follows that the final track should be a 
Simon & Garfunkel cover. Doesnt it?
This Week inRock and Roll
marks, in 1964, the true beginning of 
Beatlemania in the United States as 
the Beatles arrive at Kennedy Airport 
for their immortal performance on the 
Ed Sullivan Show.
This week also marks the death of Bill 
Haley, Feb. 9 1981. As leader of the 
Comets, his most famous song was 
Rock Around The Clock.
 Compiled by Adam Hanin from the 
Rolling Stone Rock Almananc, Col
lier Books.
Did you know...
that Harry Nilssons popular song Me 
and My Arrow first appeared on the 
soundtrack of the 1971 childrens TV 
special The Point.
From 
imagined future 
to technical fact.
Motorola creates.
Creating the technology of tomorrow 
takes more than knowledge alone. It 
takes an inventive spirit. A probing 
mind. And the ability to transform 
imagination into reality.
The individuals who possess these 
qualities arent satisfied with an 
ordinary career. Theyre seeking 
immediate challenge and the 
professional rewards only an 
innovative company can offer. A 
company like Motorolas Semi
conductor Products Sector (SPS)  
the international leader in the 
research, development and manu
facture of microelectronic compo
nents and systems.
Located in both Phoenix, Arizona 
and Austin, Texas, SPS operates the 
largest, most sophisticated semi
conductor facilities in the world. 
Where we produce over 75,000 
different semiconductor devices, 
considered to be the finest quality 
products of their kind. Our repu
tation for excellence extends into 
discrete and bipolar circuit tech
nology, MOS and related logic 
families, memory products, VLSI and 
high performance microprocessors 
and systems.
In addition to technical leadership, 
we offer beginning engineers an 
important choice: direct job place
ment or our Rotational Program 
which exposes you to several 
functions within SPS. Currently, 
engineering and other professional 
opportunities exist for the following 
individuals:
Electrical Engineers 
Mechanical Engineers 
Physicists
Computer Scientists 
Software Development Engineers 
Chemical Engineers 
Chemists
Materials Scientists 
Finance, Marketing and Materiels 
Specialists
For more information, write to 
Manager, College Recruiting at the 
appropriate address below or call 
COLLECT or TOLL FREE. Youll 
discover that the career youve ima
gined is the one that exists at SPS.
Arizona Opportunities
1140 S. Priest Dr., Dept. CU22 
Tempe, Arizona 85281 
(602) 994-6219, COLLECT
Texas Opportunities
1112 W. Ben White Blvd., Ste. 200 
Austin, Texas 78704, Dept. S85 
(800) 531-5183, TOLL FREE 
(512) 928-6179
MOTOROLA INC.
Semiconductor Products Sector
An Equal Opportunity/ 
Affirmative Action Employer
What could be...is.

---------------------------------------------------

Acme.
Announcements
Peace Alliance is holding a meeting on Wednes
day, February 6 in Skibo 45 to plan a forum con
cerning the SEI contract. Anyone interested is 
welcome.
Classifieds
ANXIOUS? LONELY? DEPRESSED? Trouble 
with family or friends? Sexual questions? Marital 
or parenting problems? Lack of motivation? 
Sleeping or eating problems? Talking about your 
life with a psychotherapist may help. A private 
clinic, we offer confidential, insight-oriented 
psychotherapy at moderate fees. Approximately 
half of our patients are students. Insuranceapproved. Pittsburgh Psychoanalytic Center 
661-2300.
Academic Bag Ladies  4515 Forbes, 682-6886, 
Thursdays 12-1. Support, sharing for women 
25 + . Bring a bag lunch.
THE GUEST HOME at White Oak for Business 
Travel, Relocation, Education, Emergency, 
Tourism. Fine quality; member of Pgh. B&B.
(412)751-7143.
LANGUAGE CONSULTANTS  TUTOR 
ING: English as a second language; Spanish, 
English. ACADEMIC EDITING: Term papers, 
dissertations. Evenings and Weekends. 421-9239.
WORD PROCESSING: MANUSCRIPTS, 
RESUMES AND COVER LETTERS, DISSER 
TATIONS, TERM PAPERS; Exact Copy/Editing 
Available, 24-hour service, 621-8544/681-5416.
MODEM FOR SALESignalman Mark VII 
1200/300 baud, plus Duplex Adapter, 25 ft. 
telephone cable & Mac connector cable John
x5936
FEMALE ROOMMATE wanted to share 
3-bedroom house in Squirrel Hill. Graduate or 
older student preferred. $140 a month + 
utilities. 422-4248 in the evenings.
DELIVERY PERSONS NEEDED. Earn up to
S7.00 an hour. Must have own car, valid drivers 
license, and insurance. Must be 18 years or older. 
Apply in person. Dominos Pizza 315 North Craig 
Street, Oakland. 11-4 weekdays.
PARTIES  PARTIES  PARTIES One stop 
party shopping at Papermart, 5000 Baum Blvd 
(Baum at Morewood). Decorations for all occa
sions  holidays, weddings, baby showers, luaus, 
birthdays, graduations, etc etc etc . . . over 8000 
sq. ft. of party supplies in our party supermarket. 
681-8900.
TYPING ON MOREWOOD. Quality work. Ex 
cellent editing  cassette tapes transcribed. 
Resumes S6. Rush jobs accepted. Choice of type 
sets. Call 687-8159 anytime.
LANGUAGE CONSULTANTS  TUTOR 
ING: English as a Second Language; Spanish, 
English. ACADEMIC EDITING: Term papers, 
dissertations. Evenings and weekends. 421-9239
INCOME TAX PREPARED BY ibray 
SIONAL. Prices start at S25.00. Call for 
pointment 261-1860 or 421-6932
CONDO FOR SALEDithridge Towers 3 rj 
luxury unit  on campus bus route. Many J 
tras, great condition  Owen S42500 683.34J
FLYING FINGERS Word Processing. Letter J 
typeset quality resumes, cover letters, papers aJ 
manuscripts. Floppy disks available. Van SickelJ 
731-8978. I
Creative, compassionate COUNSELING J
reduce your stress, to enhance your functioning 
Contact Margaret Laske, M.S.W., at 421-5219 1
Shadyside/Oakland partially-furnished laJ
1-bedroom with free laundry, gas, heat. S320.M 
plus electric. 471-1122.
ENTREPRENEURSHIP CLUB beiJ 
formed. Students interested in being part oftM 
steering committee please call Derek 683-1349! 
Paul 683-1539 !
Events
Movies
5
Pather Panchali. The first of
three Apu films about yound Apu 
and his struggle to survive in a Bengali village. 
Music by Ravi Shankhar. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 
7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Sports
Womens Basketball home meet against 
Washington and Jefferson College. Skibo Gym, 
7 pm.
Clubs
Student Senate Meeting. Open to the campus 
community. Wherrett Room, 7 pm.
Lectures
Technology as Mediation, Architecture as 
Text, by Peter McCleary, Professor, 
Chairman Ph.D. Program at University of 
Pennsylvania. Hans Vetter Memorial Lecture 
sponsored by Department of Architecture. Wean 
Hall 7500, 8 pm.
Collaborative Writing, presented by Andrea 
Lunsford, University of British Columbia for the 
Department of Psychology Colloqium Spring 
1985. Baker 255B, 12:30 pm.
Art
Microscapes, a photographic exhibit of high 
technology sponsored by AT&T, CMU Libraries, 
an College of Fine Arts. Distributed by Associa
tion of Science-Technology Centers. Hunt 
Library 4th floor, weekdays 8:30 am to 12 mid
night, weekends 12 noon to 9 pm.
Selected drawings of Georg Baselitz shown un
til February 28 at the Hewlett Gallery. Gallery 
hours. Tuesday through Friday: 11 am to 4 pm; 
Saturday: 12 noon to 4 pm; Sunday: 1 pm to 4 
pm.
Movies
CW Morgan, starring David Warner, 
Vanessa Redgrave, Robert 
Stephens. Delightful offbeat comedy about an ar
tist who goes off the deep end after his wife 
divorces him. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 
9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Music
Chamber Choir, directed by Max Peterson. 
Alumni Concert Hall, 8 pm.
Sports
Mens Varsity Basketball away meet against 
Washington and Jefferson College at 8 pm.
Mens Junior Varsity Basketball away meet 
against Washington and Jefferson College at 6 
pm.
Clubs
Astronomy Club meets in Doherty 2304 at 8:30 
pm.
AIESEC meets in Skibo 11 at 4:30.
7
 Movies
...
Fellini Satyricon. Fellinis erotic
and surrealistic look into the 
mind. Doherty 2210, 6 pm, 8:30 pm, 11 pm. Ad
mission $1. Sponsored by Activities Board.
Z, starring Yves Montand, Jean-Louis Trintignant. Greek pacifist is hit by a truck and a coverup begins involving high government officials. 
Academy Award Best Foreign Film. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:45 pm. Admission $2.95.
Talking Heads: Stop Making Sense special 
benefit movie premiere. All procees benefit East 
End Cooperative Ministry Food Pantry. Dona
tion $10. Kings Court Theater, 8 pm
Clubs
jt
CMU Explorers Club organizes trip every 
weekend: cross-country skiing, rock-climbing, 
kayaking, hiking. Skibo 12, 6:30 pm.
Lectures
The Basics of the Abortion Issue, sponsored by 
CMU Association For Life. Lecture presented by 
Cecile Heckler and movie: A Matter of Choice. 
Everyone invited. Skibo Wherrett Room, 7 pm.
Can Uncertainty Absorption be Reversed?
presented by Lance Kurke, Assistant Professor 
of Organization Behavior. Sponsored by Depart
ment of Social Sciences. Porter 217, 12 noon.
MoviesQ
Star Trek II. All the original 
characters are back to face the evil 
Khan for the battle of their lives. Doherty 2210,
6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm, 12 pm. Admission $1. Spon
sored by Activities Board.
Sugar Cane Valley. Pittsburgh Premiere: an 
eleven-year-old boys struggle to better himself 
and 1 iberate himself from his environment. Shot 
in Martinique. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 
9:30 pm, 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Music
Flying Cunninghams: Fancy Fiddlin and Fine 
Accoustic Music, performs at Brandys, Penn 
Ave. and 24 Ave, downtown. 9 pm to 1 am.
Sports
IM Wrestling Practice at Thistle Hall, 4:30 pm 
to 7:30 pm.
Womens Basketball home meet against Bethany 
College. Skibo Gym, 7 pm.
Movies
9
 Star Trek III. Doherty 2210,
pm, 8 pm, 10 pm, 12 pm. Ad 
sion $1. Sponsored by Student Dormitcrj 
Council.
Body Double, starring Craig Wasson, Mela 
Griffith. An erotic thriller set in Los An 
about an out-of-work actor and a beautifu 
woman he spies on. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:! 
pm, 9:30 pm, 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Music
Flying Cunninghams. See listing for FridayJ 
February 8.
Sports
IM Wrestling Practice at Thistle Hall, 12 n<x 
to 5 pm.
Mens Varsity Basketball away meet 
Hiram College at 8 pm.
Fencing home meet against Cleveland Stat 
University, Allegheny College, and Califon 
University of Pennsylvania. Skibo Gym, 12 no
Swimming away meet against John Can 
University at 1 pm.
Clubs
Game Club meets in Skibo 13, 1 pm.
Movies
ill Grand Hotel, starring Grf 
Garbo, Joan Crawford, JohnBsj 
rymore. The lives, loves, and intrigues abouij 
group of guests at a wealthy Berlin hotel. 1 
Picture Oscar. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30p| 
9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
DiCesare-Engler Present
The Outrageously Funny
RODNEY DANGERFIELD
New material plus his 
classic one-liners
2 SHOWS 
SAT Feb. 16 
7:30  10:00 pm
Reserved tickets at all National 
Record Marts, Oasis and Hornes 
Dept. Stores. To charge by phone 
call 363J35Q0 VisaiMastarCatd acc.
SYRIA MOSQUE
5th Avenue & Bigelow Blvd. 621-3333
AND EVERYTHING NICE
will be selling fresh-cut flowers during 
Valentines Dag in Skibo Greg Matter 
9:30  5:30. Orders for deliverg can be 
placed Wed. 5  7 in Skibo 58.
So sole Friday 2/13
FRESH ROSES, CARNATIONS, AND BUNCHES

---------------------------------------------------

February 5, 1985The TartanPage 15
alentine's Day is almost here!
20 words: $1.50 50 words: $3.00
Buy the someone you 
ove a Valentine's Day 
'ersonal Ad in The Tartan. 
It's the nicest way to show 
our true feelings...
Don't wait! Orders taken on a firstcome, first serve basis, and space is 
limited. Deadline is Friday, February 
8 at 5:00 pm.
NAME:____________
! PHONE:__________
MESSAGE:________
! Number of Words:
Return to The Tartan, Skibo 50, either in person or by campus mail.
asino Royale, starring Peter Sellers, David 
[iven, Ursula Andress, Woody Allen. Doherty 
210, 6 pm, 8:30 pm, 11 pm. Admission fl. 
ponsored by CMU Robotics Club.
Music
U Symphony Orchestra performs Guernica 
posed by Leonardo Balada and directed by 
_ rner Torkanowsky, Symphonie Fantastique, 
fid Mozarts Bassoon Concerto. Carnegie Music 
Ul, 8 pm. Free of charge.
pond Sunday Series. Lynne Engstrom, soprano 
d Frank Johnson, piano. Pittsburgh Center for
K Arts, 2:30 pm.
Sports
Fencing Intercollegiate Tournament. Skibo 
Gym, 10 am.
Lectures
Catholics, Fundamentalists, and the Bible,
presented by Arthur S. OBrien, Ph.D. Graduate 
School of Public Health Auditorium at Fifth and 
DeSoto, 11 am to 11:45.
Movies
n
Yessongs, with Rick Wakeman, 
Steve Howe, John Anderson, Alan 
White, Chris Squire. A documentary featuring 
Yes in concert. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 
9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Music
REO Speedwagon performs with special guest 
Survivor. Tickets $13.75 at Civic Arena Gate 1, 
Kaufmanns, and selected record outlets. Civic 
Arena, 7:30 pm.
Clubs
A Phi O meeting in Doherty 2210 at 7 pm. 
Everyone welcome.
If you wish to advertise in The Tartan send 
it in care of the Acme Editor, The Tartan, 103 
Skibo, Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, 
PA 15213; send it via campus mail at the above 
address; drop it off at our offices in 50 Skibo; 
or send a message to MEOPat CMCCTC. No en
tries will be accepted over the phone.
Please include the following information when 
submitting events: title of event, sponsor, brief 
description, location, date and time.
In addition, include the name and phone 
number of the person submitting; this informa
tion will be used only to confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the accuracy 
or validity of any Events listings. In addition, it 
reserves the right to edit or omit any listing for 
publication.
Deadline for Acme Submissions is Wednesday 
at 5 pm for the next weeks issue. If you have any 
comments or suggestions, send them to any of the 
addresses listed above.
Letters to the Editor
VIEWPOINTS
Specials to The Tartan
|ou, too, can participate more actively in campus affairs. Write to The Tartan. Air your views.
MURRAY A. FELDER
ATTORNEY AT LAW
Civil and Criminal
Oa
47 Forbes Ave. 
kland683-3555
FOR SALE
Three New England Supply paste-up 
banks. 45 slope, large 26"x84" work 
surface. Ideal for design and 
newspaper work. Very good condi
tion. Asking price $1000; best offer 
accepted. Contact The Tartan, 
x2111, and ask for Mike.
DEBRA ABELL m.d. dermatologist
 student discount available
 easily accessible by bus from CMU
I9 Fourth Ave., Suite 217, Downtown
|H770
MasterCard. Visa accepted 
Call appointment
What is
Sunday Quarter to 
Nine?
M.OHM 1S|mi e i|HM uoijejs 
at|l uo A|uo auiu o\ ja|jenb %e BuiuaAa Aep 
-un s|i|| i! Jean aaueuijojjad a|qe}3|pajd 
-un uayo ajmb pue mbj e 6u;onpojd agq 
-ssod se Aiieoijsnooe se uijojjad o\ pajmb 
-aj 04e sdnojB am "sdnojB ojsnui s(i|6jnqs 
-U!d 1 AiajJBA at|i Buunieaj Moqs MagAjaiug 
-ogsnui oai| jnoq j|et| e si augN o* ja}jeno 
Aepuns,, aauig| poo6 e isnf ueqi ajoui sc}|   
Funded by Activities Fee
OU 78-2921CMU Travel Office
Gampm Convenience
Skibo 40A

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanFebruary 5, 1985
National Car Rental
THE NATIONAL CENTER 
FOR EDUCATIONAL TESTING 
PREPARATION COURSES
okmutttGMATREh MCATBB  SATBB GREr35i
For a tree brochure call Tell Fret:
wwrtt. 800-222-TEST
The National Center lor Educational Testing 
3414 PoacMro* M N Sorte 526 
Manta, 6A 38326
GUARANTEE: Score in the top 25% 
or take the next course FREE.
THE YEARS MOST COMPELLING LOVE STORY...
Diane Keatons 
finest performance.
Jack Mathers. ISA TODAY
Mel Gibson 
is superb.
Pauline Kaet, \E\* YORKER MAGAZINE V
Powerfiilly acted. i
Rex Reed. THE NEW YORK POST
A near-perfect ,
movie. ^
Peter Rainer.
LOS ANGELES HER\LD EXAMINER jfe
Mel Gibson and /flf *  t|f
Diane Keaton
GeneShaiit. \\\\\\
NBC TV, TODAY SHOW %iSH3SE21r^3 MlSM. MlS.T h 4 i U\1 V
DIANE KEATON
FIRSvOFFEL
J A true story'
MEL GIBSON
METRO-GOLDV YN-\U\'EK m. EDGAR J. SCHER1CK SCOTT RLDIN PRODUCTION 
A GILLIAN ARMSTRONG FILM "MRS. SOFFEL" Matthew modine eimard herrmavv RON NTSWANER 
PMduodh EDGAR J. SCHERICK. SCOTT RI DIN, DAVID NICKSAV GILLIAN ARMSTRONG
ISQlNDTR A( K AVAILABLE ON ui.NDHAM HILL RECORDS AND CASSETfI]
STARTS FEBRUARY 8th AT A THEATRE NEAR YOU!
Beaux Arts Ball
back at last
continued from page 11
Sounds like a good time, well it is  its the 
best. But theres just one problem. Alls well 
for students who are so graciously priveledged to purchase two tickets priced at $25 
each. However, those unfortunate souls 
either not associated with the fine arts or not 
invited are left on the fringes. But as they 
say, you can please some of the people some 
of the time... Maybe its another addition to 
the eccentricity of the affair the selectivi
ty of it all. Its just about the hottest topic 
of conversation to hit CMU in years.
Its a pervasive feeling encompasing cam
pus. Already, the college is buzzing with 
talk what to wear, who to ask... Adver
tisements ranging from black and white 
posters to word-of mouth publicize the 
merits of the Beaux Arts Ball. The news is 
out, the tickets are sold, hence three weeks 
of anticipation for the costume bash of 1985.
So, wherever you are on the night of 
February 23rd, you know where you should 
be. At 10:00 p.m. the festivities commence 
in the College of Fine Arts and go on until 
the sun comes up on the 24th. Its an ex 
perience not to be missed, and if youre 
among the lucky ones, youll be a part of it. 
Beaux Arts Ball 1985, a Night to last 
forever.Forbes Gallery opens high-tech show tonight
For: Carnegie Mellon
By LYNNE M. SCHATZ
Special to the Tartan
The Forbes Gallery opens its annual hightech show this evening at 7:00. The exhibit 
features videos, photography, computer and 
other images by the entire C MU student 
community.
Most of the year we feature more tradi
tional types of art painting, sculpture, 
drawing, said gallery director Terri Glueck. 
"That doesn't cover the scope of art, and 
certainly not the scope of art work on the 
CMU campus.
Glueck sees the high-tech show as an op
portunity to solicit work from the entire 
campus as well as to display different and 
less seen kinds of art.
I dont think that a gallery should ignore 
the possibilities of video art and other types 
of high-tech art, said Glueck. This is also 
a good forum for photography, which seems 
to be a very popular medium here at CMU. 
The high-tech show will run through 
February 10. Gallery hours are 11:00 to 6:00 
Wednesday through Friday, and noon to 
5:00, Saturday and Sunday.
STUDENTS RATE
Carnegie-Mellon deserves National attention
Available at:
434 Boulevard of the Allies 261-5500 
4621 Forbes Avenue (Oakland) 682-1444
We feature GM cars 
like this Chevy Chevette.
Non-discountable rate applies to this or similar- size car and is subject to change without notice. Specific cars subject to availability.
You're #1 with National.
You can rent a car if you're 
18 or older, have a valid 
driver's license, current stu
dent I.D. and a cash depos
it. Stop by to fill out a short 
cash qualification form at*19*
NO MILEAGE CHARGE
least 24-hours in au ince.
You pay for gas and return 
car to renting location. We 
also accept most major credit 
cards.
Rate available from noon Thursday. 
Feb. 7, to 6 pm 
Monday,. Feb. 11.
Certain daily
minimums apply. 
Ask for details.
A

---------------------------------------------------

PC Standings
y5chwIpet.gb overallw1pet.gh
W&J6I.857- w&j134.765
CMU43.5712. Bethany N610.37561/2
Hiram43.5712 Thiel610.3756V
Bethany33.50021/2 CMU611.3537
John Carroll34.4293 Hiram611.3537
Thiel25.2864 Grove City5\12.2948
Grove City25.2864 John Carroll413.2359
Last Weeks Games 
GCC 97 prostburg St. 72* 
Thiel 104 Hiram 91 (3 O.T.) 
CMU 67 Bethany 60 
GCC 68 JCU 54 
W&J 76 Westminster 70* 
GCC 71 CMU 63 
Hiram 84 W&J 72 
JCU 52 Thiel 45 
Case Western 89 Bethany 84* 
(*- denotes non-conference game)
.oss may cost Tartans shot at conference titlejve City uses tough defense, hot hand of Peters to beat CMU, 71-63
I
V CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
rtan Sports Editor
Later on they would find out it was more 
iportant than they had thought.
The Tartans left the floor at 4:00 p.m.I
iturday distraught after a 71-63 loss to the 
st place Grove City Wolverines. Jay Peters 
ored 25 points for GCC, while the 
blverine defense took John Taormina right
*SSBSSS5E=S9S55--------
Grove City 71 CMU 63MUFGFTTPGCC.FGFTTP
raite0-32-22Peters9-177-925
rff4-97-715Burk1-20-02
jleman4-70-08Siverling5-70 110
lormina2-64-58Ryan3-80-06
wart3-54-410Farrell0-22-22
own3-64-510Schweik'rt0-00-00
rt1-60-02Bruni0-01-21
bski2 102-26Himmgar1-10-02
jnklin1-20-02Zuraski1-39-1211
Gallagher4-54-712
tals20-54 23-256324-45 23-3371
|%: CMU .318. GCC. .533. FT%: CMU .920. B. 
Rebounds: CMU 38 (Neff 10). GCC. 29 (Peters
[
Assists: CMU 10 (Bart 5). GCC. 8 (Ryan 3). Foulout: Brown. Halftime: GCC 33-25. Referees: Bill 
kinson and Gary Dixon.
: of the offense. Taormina scored just eight 
ints, all in the first half.
This came after a CMU win at Bethany, 
60, to give the Tartans sole possession of 
:ond place, just two games behind PAC 
W&J. Taormina scored 20, including 
|of 10 from the line. CMU, who had been 
ting under 60% from the foul line, went 
29 (89%) against Bethany and 23-25 
%) against Grove City, 
f CMU had beaten Grove City, CMU
would have pulled within one game of W&J 
going into tomorrow nights matchup in 
Washington, Pa. W&J lost their first game 
in PAC competition to Hiram Saturday 
night, 84-72
Grove City, number one ranked defensive
ly in the PAC. promlnvhy.'fj '8" Curt Silver
ing and the 6 '6 " Pfe't^rS kept Hart Coleman 
and Dwayne Waite from the ball on the in
side while Deron Ryan and Greg Farrell were 
making it tough for Taormina and George 
Debski outside. Those two shot just 4-16 on 
the day.
Richard Neff had another solid game with 
15 points and 10 rebounds, including 7-7 
shooting from the foul line. But a mistake 
he made helped the Wolverine cause.
Guard Rob Brown threw a lob pass tc 
David Bart with CMU trailing by two points. 
Bart skied for the pass but missed an eas) 
layup which would have tied the game, 
Peters scored on a short jumper to put Grovf 
City up by four.
Brown threw a similar pass to Neff thf 
next time down the floor, but Neff bankec 
it too hard, and the Wolverines scored foui 
more unanswered points to lead by eight. A 
that point, the game was for all intents anc 
purposes, over.
It was Bart and Brown that brought CMl 
back into the game. With strong, trapping 
defense, the two guards pressured Ryan am 
Farrell into several turnovers. Trailing b 
seven, Brown stole the ball from Ryan and 
drove the length of the floor. He was fouled 
by Farrell as he scored the layup and con
verted the free throw to cut the lead to four. 
But it was not enough.
It was a very disappointing loss after a 
after a well-played victory at Bethany 
Wednesday. Waite had 10 points and 10 re
bounds and Debski scored 11 points off the
photo by Bob Fishel
Waite (53 in white) leans on Larry Zuraski (43) in an attempt to score.
Jay Peters (35) pulls down one of his team high seven rebounds for Grove City.
bench. But it was the foul shooting that won 
the game for CMU.
With no time left in the first half clock, 
CMU leading by two, Taormina was fouled 
on a rebound attempt. Bethany Head Coach 
Bob Zalacca was furious, but he was more 
upset when he was called for a two shot 
bench technical foul. Taormina coolly sank 
all four shots to increase Techs lead to six.
Debski shot three for three from the field 
and five of six from the line. The Tartans 
missed just one front end of one-and-one 
situations down the stretch to clinch the 
seven point victory. Frank Yankovich and 
Mike Kemp had 16 points for Thiel.
The Tartans (4-3, 6-11) must beat W&J 
(6-1, 13-4) tomorrow night at 8:00 p.m. if 
they have any hope of winning the PAC. 
CMU still trails, along with Hiram, by two 
games with just five left to play. They must 
win the rest of their games to finish at .500.
CMU 67 Bethany 60
CMUFG FTTPBeth. FG FT TP
Waite5-8 0 010Kemp 7-12 2-7 16
Neff2-7 2-36Yank vich 7-18 2-4 16
Coleman3-7 3-49Shelly -1-9 3 6 9
Taormina 5-10 10 1020Beegle 12 0-0 2
Stewart1-5 0-02Weinberg 3-7 0-0 6
Brown1-1 2-24Adams 4-8 1-2 9
Bart1-2 3-45Morris 0-1 0 0 0
Debski3-3 5-611Fullum 2-5 2-3 6
Mosby 0-0 0-0 0
Totals21-43 25-296725-62 10-22 60
FG%: CMU .490, B..400. FT%: CMU .860, B .450.
Rebounds: CMU 41 (Neff, W'aite 10). B. 34 (Shelly 7).
Assists: CMU 10 (Stewart 5), B 10 (Adams 4).
Halftime:CMU 36 30.Technical foul: Beth, coach
Zalacca. Fouled out: Waite. Taormina, Yankovich.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanFebruary 5, 1985
Lady Tartans blow out Kent State-E.L, 82-45
By PAUL MASALSKY
Tartan Staffwriter
After pouring in 16 consecutive points at 
the end of the first half to break a tie game, 
the CMU Lady Tartans never looked back
en route to an 82-45 punishment of Kent 
State-East Liverpool in a non-league game 
played on Saturday.
The win was the second of the season 
against eight defeats for the struggling TarLaurie Arendas (14) scored a triple-double against Kent State-East Liverpool.
Join the company thats going in only one direction.
O
As a software professional, you can see your field 
growing. And, of course, you want to grow with it. But 
you dont want to sacrifice your career goals for a job, 
or a company, that might not live up to your expect
ations. You need the right growth opportunity.
Cullinet is the software company that can give you that 
opportunity. Since 1968, weve been committed to producing 
better and better business software. As a result, weve grown to 
be an industry leader in mainframe systems, applications, and 
micro-computer software. And were growing still.
If youre interested in a career in software, come and talk 
with the company thatll start you off in the right direction. The 
Cullinet Recruiter will be on campus on February 8th. Check 
your placement office for the time and location. Cullinet is now 
recruiting for the following positions:
ASSOCIATE TECHNICAL 
SUPPORT REPS
These exciting positions will encompass the 
following responsibilities: extensive contact 
with our clients from one of our regional 
telephone support centers, technical assist
ance, guidance in the use and implementation 
of our products and problem definition and 
resolution. Candidates should have a Com
puter Science background, programming - 
and/or database experience in the IBM 
Mainframe environment, and excellent 
communication and problem-solving skills.
tans, who have been hampered by injuries 
to key players and very tough competition. 
The opposition in this contest was weak, but 
nevertheless Coach Gerri Seidl saw sighns of 
great improvement among her young 
players.
I saw a vast improvement in our transi
tion game, commented Seidl. We never fast 
break, and we've been trying to get our run
ning game established. Also, this was the 
first game in which weve had a height ad
vantage, and that made a big difference.
As usual, the team was led by Laurie 
Arendas, who compiled a triple-double 
with 12 assists, 10 rebounds and 22 total 
points. Arendas connected frequently with 
forward Michelle Schlegel, who netted 15 
hard-earned points from the key.
More significant, however, was the 
emergence of some younger talent from the 
CMU bench to the playing ranks. Promis
ing freshmen Vivian Braxton and Monica 
Zalevsky proved themselves valuable to the 
Tartan rebounding game. Sophomores 
Christine Munn and Donna Nyzio played 
well in extended playing time, and starting 
rd Val Sooky showed the form she had 
exhibited before becoming injured before 
Christmas break.
When Val (Sooky) came back, our offen
sive game started to come together, 
Seidl. We still have some trouble in our jn| 
side game, but that involves getting 
guards to pass the ball inside.
CMU broke the game open with fjJ 
minutes remaining in the first half. tw I 
striaght buckets from Schlegel with assisJ 
from Arendas sparked the Tartan hot streak] 
Arendas threaded Kent State defenders wiJ 
a beautiful pass to Munn, who canned; 
fast-break l^yup to give CMU a comfortable^ 
20 point bulge with time running out in ty 
half.
Nancy Dilulio (six points) opened these-i 
cond half with a backboard jumper, and! 
Cheryll Hauser followed with a rebound ( 
a missed shot to get CMU off to a roarin 
start in the second half. The Tartan 
continued to build, and they were never I 
challenged thereafter.
CMU faces Washington and Jefferson ini 
a home contest at 7:00 on Tuesday in an at 
tempt to improve a record which may I 
deceiving. According to Coach Seidl. tb 
teams schedule is difficult because they pfo 
several Division I teams who offer scholar] 
ships to their athletes.
I give the girls a lot of credit. Theyneverl 
quit, even, when theyre down by a large! 
point margin."
lnsrrc eAyyPeudARp
WeH Terminal Roo
X3168
PRECISION 
HAIRCUT 
(ANY LENGTH)
$13.00
(WASH-CUT 
BLOW STYLE)
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES
$25.00
COLOR
never met a head we didn't like
. . .With apologies to Will Rogers, 
the great American humorist.
The point we're trying to make, 
of course, is that many haircutters only see hair when they 
look at a head.
At Great "X", we look at the 
whole head as well as the hair. 
We also listen to what the head 
says, how he or she pictures himMon, Tues, Wed 107 
Thurs, Fri 109 
Sat 96
self or herself after the haircut. 
Our haircutters are trained to put 
it all together ... so that the 
final product is more than just an 
example of expert haircutting .  
. but a perfect representation of 
who you wjjnt to be. 
Every head's a winner, when it 
heads for. . .
sl 5yyeihodfbt1
CullinetWO understand business better than ary software company in business.
 |yH5 ( uilinH Nnftu ve Ira Westwind. MA II2IK) 21UM687-3500
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
237 Atwood Streej
Across the strtet^ 
the Oakland Pst

---------------------------------------------------

February 5, 1985The TartanPage 19
Hockey club raises record 
.500 with two strong wins
k divM u5nner5h
.cial to The Tartan
On Wednesday night, the Ice Tartans 
seed the Bethany Bisons at the Lakeview 
 Arena. Coming off a tough loss to Pitt, 
jU was looking to get back on the wing track. The 3-5-1 Tartans needed to find 
ir offensive firepower which has been 
n.existent for most of the season.
In the first period, CMU and Bethany 
Ited hard, but neither team managed 
ch offense. The only goal came when 
,lUs Steve Desrochers converted a Marty 
rman pass late in the period. In the se
nd and third periods, CMU showed signs 
life as they scored five goals while Bethany 
naged just one. All five of CMUs goals 
re tallied by the front line of Eric Spray,
Caleb Corkery and Rob Katz. Katz con
tinued to have the hot hand as he collected 
his second hat trick of the year. But it was 
the fine play of left wing Caleb Corkery (one 
goal, one assist) that lifted the Tartans to the 
6-1 victory.
On Saturday night, the Tartans traveled 
to Morgantown to take on the fiesty West 
Virginia Mountaineers. With defensemen 
Tim Kenny and Ted Dawson and winger 
Martin Gorman nursing injuries, CMU 
rallied to beat the Mountaineers 3-2.
The score was tied at two with goals from 
Don and Bill Heyse, but the game winner 
came when winger Steve Desrochers scored 
his second goal in as many games to lift 
CMU to victory.'encing team foils PS-Fayette )d by Wilkanowski and Ceonzo
PHILIP VERDIECK
cial to The Tartan
The CMU fencing team engaged in a 
et at the Penn State University at Fayette 
pus Wednesday. For this meet only one 
ring weapon, the foil, was used, so Coach 
e Fisk brought along all of the foil squad 
members from the epee and sabre 
ads. Everyone fenced well, and the result 
is a triumph for CMU, defeating Penn 
te-Fayette soundly, 4-1. 
he Mens A team beat P.S.F.-A team 
2, and then defeated the P.S.F.-B team 
the same score. The Mens B team fencers 
t the P.S.F.-b team 9-6, but lost to the 
F.-A team by indicators. The B team had 
P.S.F. A team 10-10, so
decided on which side had the most touches 
scored against them, and that was CMU 
which sustained only 5 more touches. This 
is like deciding a tied football game by 
whichever team had the most yards in 
penalties. The womens team beat the P.S.F. 
womens team 5-4.
Fine performances were given by Bob 
Wilkanowski of the Mens A team and Diane 
Ceonzo, who were both undefeated. This 
brings the Fencing teams overall record up 
to 3-2. This is quite outstanding for a Divi
sion three team, considering that the two 
defeats were out of division, against Division 
sylvania, and Rutgers. The other victories 
were against Lafayette (division one) and
562? WM BLVD.
(NEAR NE.GLEY AVE.)
SeRVEIi-S
b Eeev&
B/ftTEA/bE'R.S
Bus S1itup5tuMg
a^O%OO
uLp&coJj& eatery A&uvia* 
g?ojCU&id&^ (DoMund NewsFat criou>
ctnciay^ J
.-ooj^?. Coil Wi-iASl,
IM REPORT: Rosters due February 7
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Sports Editor
It is still not too late to play womens 
basketball. Commissioner Eric Dusenbury is 
still looking for the womens only league. Call 
him at x4369.
Last signup date for Pinochle is February 
7. Play this fun card game against others 
who love the game. Call Vic Boland, 
682-9412.
BOWLING FEES: Strand Alleys needs 
$63.75 now, if not sooner. Strand will not 
give us the lanes next season if we dont pay, 
so send the checks.
Try harder to make your Basketball of
ficiating assignments. ATO, Pika, and 75K
to Start are only teams still undefeated in 
majors play. For complete standings, see 
page 19.
Sign up for the wrestling tournament to 
be held Saturday, February 16. There are 
still a few practice sessions left. Check the 
IM board for times.
February 7 is the last call for Water 
Basketball and Handball. Individual Chess 
deadline is February 21.
Floor Hockey games begin the first week 
in March. Call Pool and Table Tennis rosters 
are due February 7. Both of these sports also 
need commissioners.
Next meeting: February 7, 2:00 pm.
5824 Forbes Avenue (lower level) Squirrel Hill
421 8511
HOURS: Mon., Wed., Fri., Sat. 10-5:30; Tues., Thurs. 10-9 p m
Tim Kenny, injured lateinthegame,takesaslapshot
photo by David Arrige
against Bethany.
Also a wide selection of accessories 
to make your special day complete
^ formatoli
Squirrel Hill
The One Stop Shop for All Your 
Formal Needs
 BRIDES  PROM
 BRIDESMAIDS  TUXEDO RENTAL
 MOTHERS  AFTER FIVE
Our selection of Designer Formal Wear for Men Includes 
the Dynasty Collection, YSL, Bill Blass, Pierre Cardin, 
and others

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanFebruary 5, 1985
 mgl<M 
A SUSIPfIERS C0IKW PfIOOtJCTIM A HA8010 BtCXHI HIM WSW QUtST* 
MAiTHfi IMOIf - UBA FKffiEVTO - MtCHAfl SQNKFfiWG Oirecu b( Ptauwaptiv BMftN ROtZMAN A S [ 
Mese Sor Ime* ari (Mw*d * MKWR WH bra** Prate SIM HB ari AMM HHBS 
Based an a noiel by TERFY OMIS Sow# In BAMfl PWHGAI Produced ^ JON PtTiRS airi PETER GUBtfl 
SST le*L1f iwtaWM1?] lifaM ft HAIBLD BECSR
M 1/U*1 KCimTf CMCfHT 0 SUI r fiUAMMN
Tartan athlete of the month: John Taormina
INTRAMURAL DARTS 
FINAL STANDINGS
ding and assists, and leads the team in fieuj 
goal percentage.
Taormina is the Tartan athlete of month I 
of January. During the month, Taormina] 
scored career highs of 26 points and 12 re. 
bounds against Washington and Jefferson 
The tri-captain has averaged over 17 points! 
in conference play, and has taken a leaders I 
role on a young team.
The younger players look up to you. ^1 
one of only two seniors (Dwayne Waite be-1 
ing the other), I know how the programs be 
ing run, said Taormina.
For two-and-a-half years, the program'! 
didnt include J.T. For much of the first half! 
of last year, Taormina saw little if any plav.j 
ing time. He was disoriented with the game I 
The departure of Pete Bennett should have I 
led to more playing time, or so he thought] 
Greg Gabriel, Herb Sendek and Ray Bren 
nan saw most of the minutes.
The question came up often. Should! 
concentrate on studying and forget basket 
ball or should I stick it out? He decided t 
stay. I was never a quitter, especially in t 
middle of the season. I wondered aboutl 
playing this year, but the way last year end| 
ed I had to come back, said Taormina 
J.T. averaged over 17 points per game ove 
the last five games of last year, includingij 
25 point effort against W&J.
This year, Gabriel, Brennan and Sendei 
are gone, and the 6 2 Taormina has pn 
ven himself at the big guard and small for| 
ward position.
Taormina was named PAC player-of thtj 
week the first week of the season. It fe 
good to start the season on a good note am 
not get into a rut. It was a great honor 1 
ing recognized as the best player in the conj 
ference, even if it is just for a week.
The future of the Tartans is a good DI 
in Taorminas view. I see a good, experiem 
ed team. Although there are a lot 
freshmen, most are getting a lot of playinj 
time now. Guys like David Bart, Hart Col; 
eman and Michael Stewart will be excelled 
players. George Debski and Richard Neffa| 
already established, and they will be I 
leaders. First or second place next year | 
Coach Anderson is responsible for i 
ning this young team. Taormina said, 
is forming himself into a head coach. Afcj 
ten years as an assistant, its tough to com 
in to a program and make the decisions 
has started focusing on the positive instea 
of the negative, and thats important"11! 
such a young team.
As for Taorminas future as a Gj 
Engineer, he said, Id like to Find anentf| 
level job with a construction Firm, hope 
ly in the Pittsburgh area, to gain expert 
Then, Id like to be able to go where Iwal 
and do what I want. Being successful |
TEAMS
1. THETA XI-A
2. PI LAM-A
3. PI LAM B
4. SPUDS (DTD)
5. SAE-A
6. ATO ' ;
7. THETA XI B
8. M&M DILVER (DU)
SKI BLUE KNOB
and slay in mountainside condominium 
Special Weekend Rate
of only 599.  ,
' , , til11'6 In opie or less /(),l
rail today 12-298-0099 ^
Senior John Taormina has had a banner season despite his frustration from Satur
days loss.
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Sports Editor
John Taormina is a rare breed. Many 
CMU athletes played both football and 
basketball in high school. Most of them, 
however, have chosen to play football on the 
perennially nationally-ranked team.
Not Taormina. During his senior year at 
Quigley High School in Monaca, Taormina 
told his coach to stop sending information 
to football recruiters. J.T. was an AllPennsylvania split end his senior year, help
ing Quigley to their second straight WPIAL 
Class A title. But he didnt want to play in 
college.
I had played basketball for the majority 
of my grammar school years. I didnt start 
football until I was in eight grade. Basket
ball appealed to me more, especially on the 
college level, said Taormina. Coach Larry 
Anderson could not be happier. This year, 
Taormina is the Tartans leading scorer, 
averaging over 15 points per game. He has 
led CMU to their second place standing in 
the PAC. He is third on the team in rebounFREE SCREENING  
 DAVID LAWRENCE /UXHTOMUMSUNDAY, FEBRUARY 10 PUT PtOGuSn^UUM COMM.
UNNEKITY Of PITTSBURGH
BISS

---------------------------------------------------

February 5, 1985The TartanPage 21
runker speaks of helmets and coiffures
By Lesley Brunker
It was like culture shock, or going back 
I an 0ld game after someone had changed 
111 the rules. As I sat with my father watL:^rr the Philadelphia Flyers, a team I have 
been following for more than 
ten years, I was immensely 
frustrated.
Whos that? Id demanded. 
|Wait a minute-- whos that? and that? 
IVho's 22? 25? Every new member of the earn wore a helmet, and it was impossible tell them apart. Instead of an instant 
Iharacterization of a head of hair, I had to 
[ait a while to learn numbers and line 
lates.
Quite a switch for a gal who grew up in 
|n era when the helmeted players were the 
id men out. Players were known by their 
jiffures : Guy LaFleur and his little dutch 
cut; Wayne Cashman and his receding 
|airline; Bob Clarke and his gold-boy curls; 
[hil Esposito and The Hair that Wouldnt 
(love.In the faster paced game of the eighties, 
would seem helmets are a necessity  Ldeed, players must sign a contract releas[g the team from liability for injury if they |an not to wear one. And since a majority [players have begun wearing headgear, it 
k in fact, become more appropriate, not fccessarily because the players have suddenbecome faster, but because the head has 
[come a legal battle zone.In the era B.H. (before helmets), players 
[ not carry their sticks as high. If one went lound headhunting, one was sure to find 
ies own head hunted. Today, fans can 
fetch players tapping one another about the lad in the corners. Never have there been 
[many facial stick cuts : areas that seem Dtected from attack will be attacked. iHelmets, however, have undoubtedly sav[lives. In a recent game in Philadelphia, pkie Mike Stothers was hit squarely on the 
|e of the head by a slapshot. Without a 
prnet, he would have suffered a severe 
ad injury. (With the helmet, he received 
feral stitches and a mild concussion.) 
fevers Torontos Borje Salming was the 
[t-have gone so far as to add an eye eld for further protection, 
ts hard to say exactly what started the |met movement. Players began to carry 
on from junior-6 in the mid- to late- enties (presumably discarding the idea 
It hockey players had to be he-men), 
pter exposure to European hockey  
every player wears a helmet  Mibtedly had an effect, as did the influx pelmeted Europeans and American col students. As the bare-headed veterans [an t0 retire or to go with this new trend Pugh very few did), the top-view of the 
pie switched from one of flowing locks Pne of banging plastic caps, 
pother area helmets have effected is PUng- The bench clearing brawl was 
|awed with the new rules of the 
r 1980 season, but the fight remains as 
[0ne [hing that separates the NHL from 
P ot^er hockey league on the globe. But 
hardly the same few-punch.are
W KAPLAN
EDUCATIONAL 
CENTER
r PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SMCE1938
(or catalog 
of over 16,000 topics to 
assist your research ef
forts. hor info, call tollfree 1-000621-5746 (in II 
linols call 312-922-0300)
rch, Rm 600-N *C7 S Dearborn. Chicago. II 60605
bloody-nose-and-its-over fights of the early 
seventies.
Dave the Hammer Schultz would be em
barrassed to engage in modern fisticuffs 
where the only casualties tend to be the win
ners knuckles. In good fights, no one is 
seriously injured indeed, about the only ef
fect they have is to pump the team and more
importantly, the fans. But no one wants to 
punch plastic.
Undeniably, helmets have changed the 
game, in ways other than cosmetic. They are 
accountable for an increase in high-sticking 
penalties and no-win, push and shove fights. 
And they make it nearly impossible for fans 
to quickly identify players. Maybe hockey is
coming out of its barbarian days to become 
a civilized, gentlemanly sport. And maybe 
this civilization is affording players new 
and safer ways to hawk opponents and break 
the rules.
Lesley Brunker is a junior majoring in 
Creative Writing and History and is a hard
core hockey fan.
Swim team out-relays Shepherd at finish
By GINA ILLIG and CHRIS LEECH
Special to The Tartan
The CMU Varsity Swim Team traveled to 
Kenyon College last week to participate in 
the Kenyon Invitational. All the participants 
had to meet qualifying times in order to 
swim. The eight men finished fifth out of 
nine teams while the four women placed 
fourth out of eight teams.
Outstanding performances during the two 
day meet were turned in by Steve Francis, 
who placed third in the 50, fourth in the 100 
and eighth in the 200 yard freestyles; Mike 
Fitzgerald, who finished seventh in the 200 
and ninth in the 100 yard breastrokes; 
Whitney Foster, who placed fifth in the 50 
and seventh in the 100 freestyle; Gina Illig,
who finished second in the 200 individual 
medley, fourth in the 400 IM, eighth in the 
200 and ninth in the 100 yard breastrokes; 
Carol Freund, who placed third in the three 
meter and sixth in the one meter diving.
The team was also supported by Rob 
Summers who placed tenth in the mile (1650 
yards), Patty Illig who finished fifth in the 
mile, Carl Bell who finished twelfth in the 
200 breastroke and Doug Biesecker who 
places twelfth in the 200 backstroke. This 
meet provided CMU with better competition 
than they find during the dual-meet season.
On Saturday, the Tartans defeated 
Shepherd College with a fantastic relay 
finish. Mark Flanagan and Carol Freund 
teamed up to take first and second place in
both required and optional diving. The 
distance swimmers Rob Summers and Pat
ty Illig powered their way to impressive times 
in the 1000 yard freestyle; Summers taking 
first place in both the 1000 and 500 free. 
Other swimmers taking first and second in 
their events were: Fitzgerald and Foster in 
the 200 freestyle, and Francis and Foster in 
the 100 freestyle. In the 100 free, Francis 
qualified for the NCAA National Cham
pionships to be held in Atlanta, Georgia. 
The highlight of the meet was the 400 yard 
freestyle relay which would decide the win
ner of the meet. The CMU team of Foster, 
Summers, Fitzgerald and Francis won the 
neck-and-neck relay by hundredths of a se
cond, giving CMU the victory, 63-50.
To design and develop today's most 
technologically advanced defense products, 
General Dynamics requires the talents of 
highly motivated Engineering and Scientific 
graduates. This year, nearly half of our 1,500 
technical hires will be in Electrical I 
Electronics Engineering or Computer 
Science  goal-oriented, high-performance 
students who will graduate in the top half 
of their classes.
If you're one of these top performers, 
we'd like to meet with you at our informal 
technical presentation.
DATE: February 6 
TIME: 7:00-9:00pm
PLACE: The Skibo, Room 12
Our representatives will be on hand to 
talk about our spectrum of technological 
opportunities, show you films of our 
product lines and answer all your questions.
Don't settle for less than state of the art in 
your career. See your Placement Office for 
more details about Genera/ Dynamics' 
technica I present a tion.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanFebruary 5, 1985
NAMECMU Mens Basketball Statistics 
O FGM FGA PCT FTM FTA PCT R/RPC, PF-D
(not including Saturdays game) 
A HO RT K ST TP ppr:
CMU
OPP.
16 399 934 .427 190 327 .581 666/41.6 324-9
16 462 988 .468 219 327 .669 640/40.0 318-9
OVERSEAS EMPLOYMENT
WORLD-SIDE OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEN AND WOMEN! 
JAPAN - EUROPE - AFRICA - AUSTRALIA - THE SOUTH 
PACIFIC - SOUTH AMERICA - THE FAR EAST.
EXCELLENT BENEFITS. HIGHER SALARIES AND WAGES! 
FREE TRANSPORTATION! GENEROUS VACATIONS!
More than 300,000 Americans Japan, Africa, The South
 not including members of 
the armed services  are 
now living overseas. These 
people are engaged in nearly 
every possible activi
ty...construction, engineer
ing, sales, transportation, 
secretarial work, accoun
ting, manufacturing, oil 
refining, teaching, nursing, 
government, etc.-etc. And 
many are earning $2,000 to 
$5,000 per month...or more!
To allow you the op
portunity to apply for 
overseas employment, we 
have researched and compil
ed a new and exciting direc
tory on overseas employ
ment. Here is just a sample 
of what our International 
Employment Directory 
covers.
(1). Our International 
Employment Directory lists 
dozens of cruise ship com
panies, both on the east and 
west coast. You will be told 
what type of positions the 
cruise ship companies hire, 
such as deck hands, 
restaurant help, cooks, 
bartenders, just to name a 
few. You will also receive 
several Employment Ap
plication Forms that you 
may send directly to the 
companies you would like to 
work for.
(2). Firms and organiza
tions employing all types of 
personnel in Australia,
Pacific, The Far East, South 
America...nearly every part 
of the free world!
(3). Companies and 
Government agencies 
employing personnel in near
ly every occupation, from 
the unskilled laborer to the 
college trained professional 
man or woman.
(4). Firms and organiza
tions engaged in foreign con
struction projects, manufac
turing, mining, oil refining, 
engineering, sales, services, 
teaching, etc., etc.
(5). How and where to ap
ply for overseas Government 
jobs.
(6). Information about 
summer jobs.
(7). You will receive our 
Employment Opportunity 
Digest...jam-packed with in
formation about current job 
opportunities. Special sec
tions features news of 
overseas construction pro
jects, executive positions 
and teaching opportunities.
90 Day Money 
Back Guarantee
Our International Employ
ment Directory is sent to you 
with this guarantee. If for 
any reason you do not obtain 
overseas employment or you 
are not satisfied with the job 
offers...simply return our 
Directory within 90 days and 
well refund your money pro 
mptly...no questions asked.
ORDER FORM
International Employment Directory 
131 Elma Dr. Dept. T21 
Centralia, WA 98531
Please send me a copy of your International Employment
Directory. I understand that I may use this information for 90 
days and if I am not satisfied with the results, I may return 
your Directory for an immediate refund. On that basis Im 
enclosing $20.00 cash. .. check.... or money order.... for your 
Directory.
NAME______________________________________________________________________________________
please print
ADDRESS
CITYSTATEZIP
International Employment Directory 1984
190
201
287
242
48
27
111 988 61.8
138 1,143 71.4
IM BASKETBALL
MAJORS
TEAM "A
1. ATO
2. PIKA
3. Gigolos
4. Icemen
5. SAE
6. Bruise Brothers
7. Flying Turtles
TEAM B
L 75K To Strt ' * m
2. BETA
3. Mission II
4. Dream Team
5. GDI
6. SUPA
W
5
3
2
2
1
0
0
w
3
2
2
3
1
0
INTERMEDIATE
TEAM AWLTEAM DW
L (GSIA) White Knights201. Skvwalkers3 j
2. Theta Xi B102. Stat. Significient3 1
3. Delta Alpha Lambda213. Degenerates2
4. Musarchs224. Turning Machine2 !
5. Steel City Cafe115. PIKA-B1
6. ATO Hogs026. Phi Kappa Thetg0 j
7. Destined Truculents027. ATO Tide0 1
w8. Moon Unit Normal0 !
TEAM BL^
1. Math Grads40TEAM Ew
2. Secret Squirrels201. The Doctors4 1
3. Jordans Angels102. BETAS Das Boot3 I
4. ATO Pledges213. Pyraliers2 I
5. BETAs Wooglin 5124. CIA2 3
6. Candlelight Lounge125. Over 200 Lbs.1 1
1 1 1 1
7. (GSIA)The Technique026. Kappa Sigma-A
8. TDP047. Metal-orgy
w8. MI Bio0 1TEAM "CL
1, DU-A30TEAM Tw j
2. The Old Men301. Old Millworkers2 !
3. Brewers302. Penetrators2 I
4. Bomb Squad113. The Franchise 
4; Chegsa * ~ !
2 j
5. Eggmen
' jap*
6. Charlie the Jew025. Theta Xi2 
7. ATO Unlisted036. Mothership1 j
8. Mase037. SAE0 !
MINORS
SANTANA (S)wLMURACO (M)w
1. Buster Highmen301. Mungmen2 j
2. PILAM302. AF ROTC 21 'j
3. Skid Row103. Zoo2 !
4. Warm Leatherette014. Dynamic Ram*;1
5. Misfits015. ACO1 i
6. N.U.N.006. Inner Party1 1
7. Men Without Talent027. Future Prof.0 i
8. SAE C038. Lost Cause0
VALENTINE (V)wLPATERA (P)w
1. Fletchers301. I Tappa Kegga3 j
2. DTD102. Hampshire Hall3 ;
3. History Grads213. Kappa Sig-H1 ;
4. Jamalots 114, DU B1 :
5. Dudes125. Rimmers1 J6. AF ROTC 1016. VLS Intellectuals1 j
7. Bloody Tourists017. Scobell0 J
8. 11,23 D028. Boss-Doherty
ONCE AGAIN, IT'S BIRTHDAY MONTH!
m
mlr/vf
On Friday, February 9 I will be celebrating 
my 21st Birthday. Is anybody interested in 
celebrating with me? If so please call Leslie 
at 1-800-BIRTHDAY before Fri., February 8.
Happy 21st Pookie! see ya at Zelda's<

---------------------------------------------------

When You're Onto 
A Good Thing, 
Stick With Iti)CAPRI PIZZA
Where Today... 
Tomorrow...
AND EVEPy DAY . .you Get The Best Pizza In Oakland At The Best Price!
OOXX)(XlCOOO(XIO(X)OOCOO(X)OOOOOOOOOCODOOOOOOOOOOO(XIOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
*Also For Your Night Life Pleasure*
EOPEESSTUOIO
*A VIDEO DISCO*
Open Tuesday - Sunday 9 p.m. to 2 a.m.*oaxooooooooooooOTcoocoro^
3415 rCRBCS AVE. POH. PA. 15213 
PHONE 681-2202
2 LITERS OF PEPSI.99*EAT-IN or DELIVERED!!*
Vi
SHOTOKAN KARATE 
CLUB NOW FORMING 
BEGINNERS' CLASSES
Tuesdays St Thursdays 7-9 Saturdays 11:30-1:30 Thistle Hall, Gym

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Uncovering CMU's 
hidden features
As we go about our daily lives here at CMU, many 
of us become so tied up in our work that we often 
overlook many features of the campus. Some students 
go through four years here and never stop for a moment 
to look around for what they might be missing. Many 
faculty and staff may have spent even more time at CMU 
without smelling the roses."
In an effort to help make up for this lack of 
knowledge, we present here a partial list of some of 
CMUs overlooked treasures: organizations, places, things 
to do that mnay people may not know enough about.
Alpha Phi Omega. Referred to affectionately by Tar
tan staffers as The Popcorn Society because of their 
penchant for distributing popcorn at the Activities Fair 
and other campus events, A Phi Os role on campus is 
often misunderstood. A Phi O is a co-ed, secular ser
vice fraternity; every year, the members of the fraterni
ty are the ones who produce the C-Book, run the Book 
Exchange, the Airport Shuttlebuses at vacationtime, and 
all concessions for football and basketball games and 
Spring Carnival. They also handle Senate Elections, act 
as ushers at Greek Sing, and run many other events as 
well.
Its quite possible that people dont know much about 
A Phi O because they refuse to believe that such a mindbogglingly useful organization can exist; this, perhaps, 
is a tribute to their efficiency and the unobtrusive way 
in which they operate. But the biggest misconception 
of all is that, because A Phi O is not a social fraternity 
as the others are, it is not a real fraternity. On the 
contrary, it is the emphasis which A Phi O places on 
Leadership, Friendship and Service which makes it 
more of a true fraternity than any of the others on 
campus.
The Studio Theatre. That gray, cinder-block building 
behind CFA has been a haven for student theatre pro
ductions for many years now. What most people dont 
know is that the short-lived plays are almost always open 
to the public. Unfortunately, since these same plays are 
usually only advertised in and near the CFA building, 
it's hard to find out when plays are showing. We hope 
that our new Acme Section (see the middle pages of this 
weeks issue) and a new campus-theatre review column 
by The Spectator (see page 12) will help to make poten
tial theatre enthusiasts better informed.
WRCT-FM. The campus radio station is more than 
just hardcore and New Wave music. WRCT actually 
plays other music, and does so on one of the only 24-hour 
radio signals in Pittsburgh. The stations non-commercial 
format permits them to play everything that the other 
stations are unable to play because of their tight playlists; 
in fact, WRCT tries to avoid playing such commercial 
music. Besides broadcasting jazz, funk, fusion, ex
perimental, industrial, and many other forms of music, 
the station also broadcasts Tartan football, basketball 
and hockey, covers Sweepstakes at Spring Carnival, and 
sponsors weekly talk shows of campus interest. WRCTs 
program guide for Spring 1985 will be appearing soon 
in these pages check to see what youre missing.
CMU Press. Run by Gerald Costanzo, the Head of the 
Creative Writing Department, the CMU Press publishes 
6 to 8 books of poetry every year, each the work of an 
individual author, as well as the annual Three Rivers 
Poetry Journal and reprints of the Benjamin Fairless 
Memorial Lectures. The contract it signed with Harper 
& Row recently has lifted it into the ranks of the more 
celebrated university presses. Works published by the 
CMU Press can be found in the Bookstore in Baker Hall.
By no means is this a complete list of organizations 
and places of interest to the campus; in future editorials 
and articles, The Tartan will cover others which could 
not be listed here for want of space. Find out more about 
your campus  youll be glad you did.
Letters:
What price
restitution?
Editor:
During the weekend of January 
25, two freshmen were caught by 
Security earring stolen property 
back to their dorms. The retriev
ed booty included several stools 
and chairs frim CFA (university 
property) and a desk lamp 
(mine). Most of my lamp was 
returned, the rest was lost in the 
flight of the pursued. I was angry 
and annoyed that someone would 
dare violate my private property.
So what is to be done with these 
criminals? Dean Walter assured 
me that they will be dealt with 
severely. Severely. Under section 
six of the University Handbook 
ther is no listing of theft of private 
property only theft of university 
property. I will then assume that 
the latter listing will be applied to 
this case. The penalty for this 
crime falls under group Three of 
the Guidelines governing Univer
sity Regulations and Penalties 
which states: The penalty. . .will 
regularly require the cost of 
restoration of the stolen proper
ty. . . plus a fine of not less than 
one-quarter of the value of the 
property. . . nor more than onehalf the value. But. . if the value 
of the property exceeds $500 the 
case will automatically be refer
red to the University Committee 
in Discipline to determine 
whether suspension or expulsion 
should be considered as part of 
the penalty.
Counting out the private mer
chandise separately, the price of 
my lamp comes to a grand total 
of S15. With the added maximum 
fine of $7.50, the culprits are out 
a mere $22.50 not too much to 
pay for an exciting Saturday 
night. Its almost a shame I 
bought my lamp on sale!
This brings to mind a question: 
is it just to base penalties of theft 
purely on the monetary value of 
the stolen object without con
sideration for the principle of the 
crime? Theft of property is in
tolerable. Carnegie-Mellon 
University is a professional learn
ing institution for adults; un
disciplined children are 
undesired.
I await their trial.
Steve Fogelman 
Architecture 85
interpreting 
editorial content
Editor:
The Jan. 22 issue of The Tar
tan included a recruiting adver
tisement from Martin Marietta. 
Along with its text it pictured a 
missile flying over a chip which 
suggests an urban terrain. We in
terpret the publication of this 
advertisement as tacit approval 
by The Tartan to graduates from 
our university to do work in ag
gressive military technology. As 
such, it should not have been 
accepted.
Of course, we recognize the 
necessity of defensive military 
research. However, this con
stitutes an offer to students to use 
the technology and skill gained at 
C MU in a destructive way. This 
goes against one of the basic 
reasons for education to im
prove the lot of mankind and his 
society. We, both as individuals 
and as future architects, feel the 
attitude graphically presented in 
this advertisement is offensive and 
should not be encouraged by a 
university paper.
This point seems particularly 
pertinent given the Editors note
in the same issue. In it youmai 
tain that political ethics are qui 
tionable campus issues and I 
a forum to discuss these isi 
among peers, if required at all 
the Op/Ed section, 
wholeheartedly disagree, feelii 
rather, that the editorial policy] 
The Tartan is manifest by! 
Tartan as a whole, inclusiveoh| 
tides and advertisements.
Master of Architects
Chris Bl| 
Sandra Heming 
Jeff Kre 
Yongl 
Lisa Osti 
Joan Raw 
Dave Shirk 
Dave Solaj 
Mike Zila
Master of Architecturtij
Susan Bre 
Charles BriniJ 
Fred Ell 
Til Gld 
Faris C 
Ayhan 04
h.l. n
Keith Pe
Editors Note: The Tartan i 
take responsibility for any 
tisements which appear untw 
pages which fall outside if! 
United States censorship lav,5 | 
jvay does such an advertisement 
one from Martin Marietta siM 
approval of the views cnt^ 
within it by any of the I arta 
Furthermore, the Editor's* 
the fan. i2 issue has been ^ 
preted in other letters a^rt,< 
the paper as well. The Edit1^ 
did not state that "political 
questionable campus 
rather that they have been ?e 
undue attentionPolitics can1
be discussed herein fro111 
time, but they will be tn^1. 
with topics of more direct ft 
to the campus.

---------------------------------------------------

February 5, 1985The TartanPage 25
yVhy worry?
I\luclear war? Our News Editor just laughs at it, winks seductively
By Karen Gray
It is ironic that the individuals who should 
concern themselves most with the possibili0f a nuclear war (young energetic 
motivated free-thinking students such as 
ourselves, right?) have the least amount of
time to do so.
I mean, I used to worry about it a lot, but 
between going to class, doing homework and 
boiling my contact lenses, I have about all I can reasonably handle. Ive had to cut my 
orrying down to twenty minutes a dayetwen lunch and my 1:30 class.
Be honest with yourself. How would you 
ather spend your Friday evening, throwing 
n blush and going to some party, or sitting 
n your room worrying about nuclear war?
ts face it, wondering which part of your 
ace will fall off first is simply not fun! 
This is the kind of reasoning Ive been us
ing on myself as I wonder, Hmmm...why 
didnt people get riled up about the SEI (and 
its strong nuclear connotations) before GMU 
signed a contract it cant possibly run away 
from? We were just too absorbed in other 
things to think about it! Heck, if we tried 
to back out of it now, the DoD would get an
noyed and nuke That would drastically 
cut the projected cost of tearing down Skibo, 
but those Physical Plant workers spend lots 
of time clearing slush off the streets and 
theyd have to start all over again. That 
would be selfish and rude.
So we go through our daily routines of 
alarm, shower, class, looking for that certain 
someone in Kiltie, our self-made bubbles on
ly occasionally ruptured by a heated dinner 
discussion or an angry editorial.
So in fact I think that the ease with which 
this enigmatic monster?/savior? the SEI has
slipped into our lives here may reflect not 
our affirmation that it belongs here, but our 
own docile nature. Were college students. So 
what? The connotations surrounding that 
term have changed.
This isnt the 60 s. We dont live for causes, 
we coordinate them with the rest of our 
schedules. We admire our professors (Did 
you know she used to attend bra-burnings?) 
but make no effort to emulate them. We 
listen to anti-war music, but only if its 
danceable.
Maybe Im not being quite fair. Now we 
did throw cookies at the Flashcube during 
the last tuition hike. That was pretty darn
ed exciting, wasnt it? Im surprised one of 
those hard little disks didnt smack out a win
dow or two, huh?
But that only happened because a tuition 
increase hits us right where we live. It
threatens our ability to come to CMU and 
achieve the fame and fortune we so hungri 
ly desire.
So let us forget these issues of life and 
bomb.
Let us suckle greedily at the Kiltie milk 
udders.
Let us spend exhaustive hours plotting our 
loss of virginity and twice as many hours 
wondering what actually happened.
Let us shower, examine our toes, and 
debate the superiority of liquid blush over 
powder blush.
But above all, let us remember that when 
it does finally hit, one should hold ones glass 
of Kiltie orange juice far enough away so it 
doesnt spatter in ones face. Let us die with 
some dignity, for Wean's sake.
Karen Gray is a sophomore in English and 
is News Editor of The Tartan
iaaloJbJas
he problem with 15-111
By Dan Tobias
Several years ago, like most other 
eshmen, I took the Introduction to Comuting course, 15-111. At the time I had any objections to their policies. From what 
have heard from people now taking this 
urse, things have not improved, and seem have actually gotten worse.
The main area of contention is the Comluter Sciences forcing all students to use jneir special ALOE editor to enter their 
1 ascal programs, rather than using the stanI ard EMACS editor used in all other classes, I hich has been intentionally disabled on 
IDU1 and EDU2, the VAX computers used 
|>r the Intro courses. The proponents of 
LOE say that it is designed to introduce udents to the programming language in a ructured format, without the students 
eding to worry about syntax (where to put 
micolons, etc.)
There is much truth to this, and I think 
ere are some instances in which this type editor is a good idea. However, it also has 
any drawbacks. It uses incredible amounts 
computer time, making its execution very w, and driving up the system load to enorous levels. It is also a nuisance for most
students, once they become acquianted with 
the basics of programming. It forces things 
to be entered in a somewhat cumbersome, 
illogical format, so that the statement I :5 
StuffPtr[6].Junkfield 5 (36 * A) would have 
to be typed as something like ASSIGN
MENT VARIABLE I BINARYOPERATION * RECORDVAR ARRAY 
StuffPtr CONSTANT 6 Junkfield BINARYOPERATION * CONSTANT 36 
VARIABLE A. Forgive me if this is not ex
actly right; its been several years since I ac
tually had to use the ALOE, thank goodness.
However, despite my personal dislike of 
the ALOE editor, the purpose of this column 
is not to criticize that piece of software. 
There are other people who think it is the 
greatest thing since digital watches, and they 
have every right to their opinions, and to use 
the ALOE to write their programs. My 
criticism is that the CS Department, in their 
infinite wisdom, has decided to outlaw the 
use of any other editor to type in programs 
for 15-111 and 15-118. Although several other 
editors exist on the VAX computer, in
cluding EMACS. which is the standard 
editor used on campus here, they have arcontinued on page 26
Michael Bett  From the Chair
Appreciating our property
By Michael Bett
Money, money, moneythats all CMU 
thinks about anymore. At least at times it 
seems that way.
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY: I was at the 
Faculty Senate meeting last week. At this 
meeting they were discussing the Intellectual 
Property Policy. This is the policy that deals 
with any patentable invention, any 
copyrightable subject matter, trade secrets, 
or works of art developed at the university. 
The portion of the policy that affects 
students basically says the student retains 
rights to the intellectual property but the 
university receives a free license to use the 
intellectual property.
It is my opinion that by paying the univer
sity our tuition, we have bought the right 
to use the university facilities. I feel that by 
doing so, any intellectual property that we 
create should belong solely to the student 
without the university having any claim to 
the intellectual property whatsoever. After 
all, if I had a lawn-mowing business and I 
was using two Lawn Boy mowers, you 
wouldnt expect me to share any of my pro
fits with Lawn Boy. This is the same con
cept; by paying tuition we have bought the
universitys services. Tell me what you think. 
We will be discussing the Intellectual Pro
perty Policy and its affect on the students 
at tonights Senate meeting. 
APPRECIATION: A belated thank-you to 
Dr. Herlighy in the Computer Science 
department for granting our request to let 
students wait-listed for 15-312 Comparative 
Languages who were attending his lectures 
into his class. Also, thanks go out to all the 
students who helped us pass out the petitions 
to move registration back two weeks and to 
change next years academic calendar so we 
could stan before Labor Day. Thanks to you, 
on both petitions we collected over two hun
dred and thirty signatures in just two days. 
By next week I should know the result of our 
efforts and I will let you know.
Senate will be meeting tonight at 7:00 pm 
in the Wherrett Room. You, your comments, 
complaints and suggestions are welcome. 
Among other issues, we will be discussing the 
Intellectual Property Policy.
Michael Bett is a junior in Mathematics, 
and is chairman of Student Senate.
'ow to have a NY state of mind
| Have you ever heard of an egg cream? Un|nunately, if youre from Pittsburgh, you 
obably havent. How about a knish? No?
I sour pickle?
I Okay, lets get off the food tack. Lets try 
I is: Have you ever heard of Macys? Have 
| u ever been to a Loews? Have you ever 
I en yelled at by a cabbie? Do you know 
i at Howm I doin? means?
^ Sadly, all of the above are almost ex usively New York City phenomena 
I phenomena?), and it is a well-known and 
I Rentable fact for all New Yorkers that if 
Fu go more than fifty miles outside the ciI limits, your chances of getting an egg 
larn> a sour pickle, a knish or an unfriend -
 cabbie suddenly decrease a hundredfold. 
IUs column is the beginning of a crusading 
P0rt on my part to make all these pleasures 
Tarsal.
- a mandate to Pittsburgh cab 
'frs Get grumpy! For heavens sake, 
Ve been undertipped all day ling, youve 
n sitting in the same stuffy vehicle for 
 and you are a high-risk potential 
*orrhoid sufferer. You have a right  and 
[ >a ligation  to make your passengers 
^comfortable as possible.
| .W sur pickle. A sour pickle is not 
Pckle that has been rubbed with a
VIEWPOINT: Bob Glickstein
piece of lemon. A sour pickle, like other 
pickles, is a cucumber, but this one has been 
sitting in a solution of garlic and salt for eons 
(actually, a few weeks will do it). Good sour 
pickles crunch loudly and are available on
ly at delicatessens. A delicatessen, in New 
York, is generally not a small grocery store 
(although it can be)  a delicatessen (deli) 
is a restaurant, owned and operated by Jews, 
with angry waiters who put their thumbs in 
your soup, and at which one can order 
Hebrew National frankfurters, fatty corned 
beef, pastrami, knishes (more about those 
later) and of course, French fries (true deli 
fries are cut about three to a potato they 
are huge). All sandwiches are served on rye 
bread unless otherwise requested, the only 
beverages are cans of Dr. Browns unless 
otherwise requested, and the condiment 
available is mustard unless otherwise re
quested. DO NOT REQUEST 
OTHERWISE-youll be doing it wrong. 
(For extra credit, drink only Dr. Browns 
Cream Soda or Dr. Browns Cel-Ray Soda.)
A knish is a hot snack served either in delis 
or in knish stores (there is a knish store 
within walking distance of any place worth
mentioning in New York). It is filled with 
a great deal of potato, which has been boil
ed and made rather spicy indeed. One can 
almost fit two potato knishes in one hand. 
The whole affair is wrapped in a kind of 
doughy stuff which is not found on any other 
food and which is difficult to describe. It is, 
of course, delicious, and it is one of the 
things that make New Yorkers so enthusiastic 
about their city.
continued on page 26
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the beginning oj the opinion 
section, and are the official opinion of The Tar
tan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual authors 
who are usually on The Tartan staff, but the 
opinions are not necessarily those of The Tartan 
Editorial Board.
LrtMrs to die Editor are opinions of individual 
authors who are usually members of the Vniversity community. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writers address 
and phone number for ivriftea lion. Names will 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
m
Editor-in-Chief ................Stephen Volan
Managing Editor..............Mike Pilewski
Business Manager .. John Friedmann
News Editor..........................Karen Gray
Features Editor................Ric Medrow
Entertainment Editor .............. Al Datri
Sports Editor ... Christopher D. Lewis 
Photography Editor .... Mike Pilewski
Acme Editor ..................Mohan Embar
Art Manager........Michael A. Sussman
Production Manager ... Katrin Wesner 
Typesetting Manager ....Jill Clelland 
Asst. Business Mgr. ...John Lumpkin
Asst. News Editor..........Jennifer Even
Asst. Art Mgr....................Mark Kissner
Asst. Typesetting Mgr. .. Joe Hasper
Contributing Editors: Peter Bain, Judy 
Merrill, Bonnie Topf, Pauline Wen, Neil 
Greenblum
Production Staff: John Blanck, Teri 
Breier, Oan Cohen, Dennis Cohen, Matt 
Davies, Don Eggert, George Frtzmaurice, 
Don Gamble, Kathy Murtaugh, Dan Pellish 
Construction Team: Al Datri, Mike Portuesi, Paul Rydzewski, Steve Volan.
Copyright  1985 by The Tartan The Editorial Board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication any copy 
it deems unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: Skibo 
50. (412) 378 2111. Business Offices: Skibo 52. (412) 
578-2112. 24 hour phone. (412) 578 21 IS. Mailing ad
dress: Skibo 103. Carnegie Mellon University. Pitts 
burgh. PA 15213.
Funded bv the Activities Fee. All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26The TartanFebruary 5, 1985
1Viewpoint: Glickstein on NY
continued from page 25
A knish MUST be eaten with mustard.
How m I doin? is the phrase with which 
Mayor Ed Koch won the hearts of all of New 
York. People argue whether Ed Koch is a 
good politician or not (in fact, more people 
argue that he is not), but when he comes on 
that TV screen with that Frank Perdue face, 
starts cracking jokes and saying Howm I 
doin?, suddenly the answer to that six-yearold query becomes unimportant. Mayor 
Koch is the quintessential New Yorker. He 
likes Chinese food. La$t summer, he was in 
San Francisco for the Democratic Conven
tion. A news program showed him walking 
through the streets of Friscos Chinatown, 
sampling restaurants, waving to people and 
saying, Tm Ed Koch, New York City, ever 
heard of me? He is up for reelection this 
year. Vote for him.
Finally, the egg cream. The egg cream IS 
New York. When you go into a luncheonette 
and ask for an egg cream, you feel like 
Fiorello H. LaGuardia. You feel like a New 
Yorker. You are king. You are great. 
Everyone else sucks.
The first rule of an egg cream is this: Real
egg creams only come in chocolate. The egg 
cream maker is likely to ask you whether you 
want vanilla, chocolate or strawberry. You 
look at him and say, in a surprised voice, 
Chocolate, of course.
An egg cream is served in a tall glass 
(stress GLASS, not paper cup or even 
plastic), and it is a mixture of chocolate 
syrup, milk and seltzer. The correct propor
tions of these three ingredients is so difficult 
to achieve that some people think the abili
ty to make a good egg cream is genetic. Em
pirical studies confirm this: Ninety-nine per
cent of all expert egg cream makers are old 
Jewish men who are hard of hearing.
A debate has been going on since the 
beginning of time as to what the proper 
order of adding the three ingredients is. I 
am willing to argue this point with any 
comers it is chocolate syrup first, milk, 
then seltzer. The milk must be added slow
ly so as to form a separate layer on top of 
the chocolate syrup (the chocolate syrup 
MUST be Foxs U-Bet). The seltzer must be 
added so that it mixes only with the milk and 
forms a pure-white head (the hallmark of a 
perfect egg cream is a thick, white and
foamy head). The syrup must be mixed with 
the remaining milk gingerly in order to avoid 
destroying the head or adulterating it with 
chocolate syrup. When removing the mix
ing spoon, a sole dot of chocolate syrup may 
appear on top of the head. That is the 
perfect egg cream. The egg cream maker 
will give you a straw. Do not use it drink 
from the glass and get a foam mustache. An 
egg cream is drunk with the glass in one 
hand and a pretzel stick in the other.
The ritualism involved with the exclusive 
New York pleasures is not burdensome. In 
fact, it is another exclusive New York 
pleasure.
By the way, Coca-Cola and 7-Up are ex
amples of sodas. Pop is what happens when 
a balloon and a safety pin try to get roman
tic. Alternatively, Pop is the guy who mixes 
the egg cream.
Bob Glickstein is a freshman in an 
indeterminate major, and, despite his com
mentary, bears Pittsburgh no ill will.
Viewpoint is a column open to all 
members of the CMU community. If you 
would like to submit an article for considera
tion, send your article, typed and double
spaced, to: Editor, Tartan, Skibo Room 50. 
No manuscripts can be returned.
Tobias...
continued from page 25
ranged the system so that these programs aj 
off-limits to students. And if some clev 
hacker manages to get into EMACS any*a 
they consider that to be a punishabl 
offense.
But if ALOE is actually so much superj0. 
as Phil Miller, the instructor of the 
claims, then why cant he trust the student) 
to use it voluntarily even when given a choii 
of what editor to use? He could still extol t] 
virtues of ALOE in his classes, and take 
points for lousy format in programs not di 
using ALOE, but why FORCE students 
use the darn thing? Would it be so terril 
if some students used a different editor? 
title of the course is not Introduction 
ALOE; the point of the course is to 
how to program, not how to use some biza: 
editor not used anywhere else in the kno' 
universe. No other course besides the Ini 
courses forces students to work on an inten 
tionally disabled computer.
There may be more than simple paterj 
nalism at work here. Perhaps Miller is afr; 
that, if given a choice, students would shi 
ALOE and pick the more versatile EM
Launch hour. Throttles arc at full 
power as a supersonic roar sweeps 
across the flight deck. And youre 
the pilot.
The catapult fires and G forces 
slam you back into your seat. Sec
onds later, youre punching a hole 
in the clouds and looking good.
Nothing beats the excitement of
Navy flying. And no other job 
can match the kind of manage
ment responsibility you get so 
quickly in the Navy.
The rewards are there, too. 
Around-the-world travel oppor 
tunities with a great starting 
salary of $19,200. As much 
as $33,600 after four years with
promotions and pay increases.
Fake off for tomorrow in the 
Navy. With top-level training 
to help you build technical and 
manageriahskills youll use for 
a lifetime. Dont just settle into 
a job; launch a career. See your 
Navy Recruiter orCALL 800-327-NAVY.
NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST.

---------------------------------------------------

'WB
February 5, 1985-The Tartan-Page 27
T^vould be somewhat embarrassing to 
he staff members who have been work 
,n ALOE as their pet project for all these
I
esides the ALOE matter, there are some 
r dictatorial policies regarding the In
computers. This year, for example, all 
licly postable BBoard files were removed 
j the EDUs. This means that students 
e no easy means of communication on 
computers which can be used to openly 
ate the policies of this course. The only 
lable bboards are ones which only the 
fcan post to, which disseminate various 
cial propaganda to the students, 
lething like the way the press works in 
Soviet Union.
i Tobias is a junior in Applied Math and 
columnist for The Tartan.
,n
m>0 way?pfJlSRAEL.
SHERUT LAAM
CMU STUDENTS'.
Come and Experience Israel 
SPRING TOUR 1985 
May 19 - June 11
the Galilee  the Negev  
Jerusalem  border settlements  
kibbutzim  seminars  and more
orrections
CONTACT
come to Skibo Hall Lobby on Wednesday 
'0 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.
With Hertz, you can see Europe from a first class 
compartment that stops anywhere you want and goes 
whenever youre ready. And whether you share that com
partment with three friends or just one, Hertz will cost 
you less than Eurail. At a level of convenience that takes 
the commotion out of locomotion.
As long as youre 18 years old you can rent a car from 
Hertz* And you can reserve it just seven days before 
renting, without paying in advance. Whats more, our 
rates are guaranteed. And theres never a charge for mile
age. Plus, by renting from Hertz you can get discounts at 
over 3,000 hotels throughout Europe.
For details and reservations, talk to a travel agent or 
call Hertz at 1-800-654-3001. Because even if youre on a stu 
dent budget, you shouldnt have to see Europe on a pass.
iF.OON nro I MONTH tl RAII
Please send me more infufMion on how Her./ can save me monev m Europe"
iame.
Address.
Send to: Hcrt/ Affordable Europe 
PO Box 2692 
Smithtown. N Y 1178?SNEWB04
The! wav to rent a car.
Nome restrictions applv Car muvl he leserved in the t S V* least seven davs in advancc
IVK* Approximate dollar quivalents are for guidante onlv ire based on exchange rale---------------
where applicable not included Hert/ standard age. v redit and driver qualifications appiv Reservai N 
responsibility ot Hcrt/ Holiday itr seasonal surcharges will apply Kates an.ountahlri he

---------------------------------------------------

Funnies.
Joe FreshmanBy Mark Levim
Alto&HT,  mi WfWWTED K ZlllVON UWS Of TvWS VIU?\0
ma ...  woe oseo op
215 (7AUON5 OPTv5fsfSNT\N...
1 HA\J 60N THR06K 
5,1% AOS fm fm PAIRES 
10,^52. ADS fO(^ MOViES,
AMTi- COWuTe* SL0GAW5, AKJTI 
TiPEWRITER 10GMS, AA/T|-$AUPOlM /5A) SLOGANS, AMTl-V^eEt
SL06f\NS____
KS, ftr you mu wed us 
20nE(S/\M-5 / \ME WfR sirr,^ 
OK Th Fence OlSCUSSlN/G TH 
fOOLDttoK) vMHEpJ r tornii 
ST^TMx5fetfj PHIsicAc <ujut 
UNIE OP AMO FlENtilSHL' PAiiJrJ 
O'S M $ooK\Stt" .ULuo 
OVPv osi
Mo, ^ couue, wwMvtNn
NG>H\NSt M. ?WV'KtfS, 
VJWo ftwwvtwt ts5*ufifc& AGAINST 
"W O'S, MO 
^KUKUO l\6MWST h PH\ O, 
MO WSfWNL'f UTAUATEO A6A\U51 
iHtHVStW'ES. . .
\ne kme\a if, St 
HnC MT) U6h) fftiwtEO \26 
'X\M${ AN Vi WEflE TMitPEO.
NNftt, PtC-roMty, 
Wb N30T AS 
AS'f As IT 
50KJOS
^ V ' ' t . v_ 1 s/.  ------ 1tlTI i
ur's6ol
>AtKTo
tWTftofl
WStf.
X
X
uds
university
dining
service
CKkiltie cofe
MID-DAY
Steak&Cheese Sandwich 
Julienne Turkey 
Apple Fritters
Hamburgers 
Creamed Chicken 
Savory Rice Bake
Hot Meatloaf 
Chicken Souffle 
Macaroni AuGratin
BBQ Beef Sandwich 
Welch Rarebit 
Farmers Omelette
Fish Sandwich 
Chili Beef Casserole 
Carrot Loaf
Waffles/Bacon
Sloppy Joe
Beef Cheese Quiche
French Toast/Sausage 
Chicken Fillet 
Chicken Pot Pie/Biscuit
FEBRUARY 4-10, 1985Men
London Broil 
Hot Meatloaf 
Tuna Burger
Flounder Almondme 
Turkey Devonshire 
Deli
Spaghetti-Meat/Clam 
Hot Sausage Sandwich 
Fettuccme Alfredo
Chili/ Rice 
BLT Sandwich 
Deli
Macaroni AuGratin 
1/2 Hot Hoagie 
Deli
Skiltiecaf
EVENING
Roast Beef 
Rotini
Swiss Brown Rice -
Short Ribs 
Seafood Creole 
Chinese Dinner
Veal Steaks 
Fish Almondme 
Zucchini Italian
Spaghetti/Meatballs 
Spaghetti/MeatSauce 
Chicken Stuffed Pepper
Braised Beef Tips 
Enchiladas
Cheesy Spinach Bake 
Pizza-Cheese-Pepperoni
SUBJECT TO CHANGE
Carved Turkey Breast 
Salisbury Steak 
Seafood Creole
Carved Roast Beef 
Veal/Mushroom Grav)| 
Ham&Swiss Quiche
Carved Roast Beef 
Turkey/Dressing 
Garden Omelette
Carved Roast Beef 
Baked Chicken 
Grilled Liver&Onion*
Carved Turkey Bre*1 
Baked Haddock 
Swedish Meatballs
EverydayMushroom Omelette
Grilled Liver OnionsHot/Cold Deli
Omelette to OrderBaked Ham
Hamburgers 'n HotdogsSwedish Meatballs 
Cheese Ravioli
EverydayI
Carved Beef or TurMj
