Raids
ports the enforcement of liquor laws. We 
do not believe in violation of law; we 
believe that laws must be enforced, that 
we must all live up to the law. If we, for 
some reason or another, dont like a par
ticular law, then we must work in a demo
cratic way to try to get that law repealed. 
Were not, in any sense, hereIm not 
hereto say that laws should not be en
forced. We do believe in them; I think
liquor laws, in particular, are extremely 
important laws, and that we do want to try 
to, in our society, make certain that these 
laws are obeyed.
But I am extremely concerned with 
massive arrests of students at a charity 
function, where there was no excessive 
noise or any disturbance of any kind. 
Students were functioning in an orderly 
way: they were there for a good cause, 
they were not causing a disturbance to 
neighbors, there was no fussing among 
fraternities, there was no fighting among 
the people attending the fundraiser. They 
were functioning in a peaceful way, and to 
have this kind of massive arrest just seems 
to be extremely excessive and must have 
something else in back of it
But I'm even more concerned that the 
students didnt have the proper opportu
nity to defend themselves following ar
rest Some of the students have reported 
that they had not been drinking, and from
the first moment wanted a breathalizer 
test and couldnt get one.
This is a democratic society; were not 
here in some totalitarian state where intel
lectuals are under fire and one is looking 
for ways to persecute them. I want to say 
that we are reviewing with legal counsel 
all aspects of this matter to insure that our 
students legal rights are protected; and I 
include, there, civil rights. We have heard
a number of storiesI dont want to get 
into them because they are not appropriate 
at this pointI have no reason, however, 
to doubt them, and we believe that it is 
necessary for us to really investigate this 
matter in detail
We have retained legal counsel, we are 
reviewing all aspects of the matter be
cause of my deep concern for our stu
dents rights.
Let me emphasize that this was a fun
draiser for Multiple Sclerosis, and for the 
Karin Johnson Asthma FundKaren was 
a former CMU student who died of 
asthma here on campus some years ago.
The students here have done a spectacu
lar job in raising money for research for 
Multiple Sclerosis and, in fact, 2 years ago 
won the prize for the whole country ; they 
raised more money in this little university 
than any university in the whole country. 
Its a spectacular thing, and I think that our 
students do feel very strongly about these
two causes and I think should be certainly 
complimented for the kinds of activities 
they have gone through.
There was no attempt to the best of our 
knowledge, to do anything otter than 
raise funds for these causes. The students 
have done a variety of things to raise 
money for these two causes and this par
ticular fundraiser was only one of many 
things that they have done.
So in sum, in substance, I dont condone 
any breaking of the law, and if there was 
any underage drinking were definitely 
opposed to it Weve tried to develop an 
alcohol policy on campus that will elimi
nate underage drinking. I think, as you can 
see, its a very, very difficult matter.
Im probably the only one in the United 
States who went to college and didnt 
have a drink illegallybecause I had to 
live at home and didnt have enough 
money to pay for any liquorand Im 
sure that the people who did the arresting 
would have difficulty substantiating that 
they had been in college and never had a 
drink before they were 21.
But in any event, we still dont like thaL 
We dont want underage drinkers on 
campus. We closed down a fraternity 
several years ago because there was 
drinking of underage students that was 
just not to our liking; so we are opposed to 
that But we are unalterably opposed to 
the violation of students rights.
There is a tendency in our society to treat 
students unfairlyperhaps beginning 
with the Secretary of Education in Wash
ingtonbut there still seems to be a kind 
of student bashing mode, ami this is a 
poor school to start that kind of policy up 
with or to follow through with that kind of 
policy.
Our students are hard-working students;
are extremely bright, they are the 
future leaders of society, and to treat them 
as they seem to have been treatedand 
we do need, let me emphasize, to investi
gate that moreis something that I per
sonally protest, and that as a university we 
are reviewing with our legal counsel and 
investigating what may be violations of 
civil rights.
Press: What is the alcohol policy on cam
pus?
We have a firm policy of no drinking in 
public places, no drinking of underage 
students, no alcohol in academic units. 
What we intend to do is to sit (town with 
the LCB [Liquor Control Board] and get 
their point of view and to try to see what 
can be worked out that will be satisfac
tory, with all concerned, on running par
ties. I think that all of you know that it is 
very difficulteven if youre running a 
commercial barto prevent liquor from 
being sold to underage people, and every 
once in a while you see a bar raided. Our 
students on this particular occasion did try 
to, what we call, card studentsto have 
them show their identification. Obviously 
there were places when they didnt do 
portshen m fcml E2
I am extremely concerned with massive arrests of students at a charity function...
Cyert Condemns
By RUSS SELIGMAN 
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
On the afternoon of November 23, Presi
dent Richard Cyert called a press confer
ence in the Wherrett Room to discuss last 
weekends raid on CMU fraternities by 
state officials.
After a brief introduction by Vice Presi
dent for University Relations Keith 
Moore, Cyert addressed the action taken 
by law enforcement agents against the 
fraternities, during which approximately 
) 140 students, some of whom were over 21 
years old, were arrested for illegal drink
ing.
In his statement, Cyert condemned the 
.Liquor Control Board and State Police 
for harassment and violation of students 
rights. He also made it clear that while the 
university supports the enforcement of 
liquor laws, any complaints should be 
handled by the university, and not 
through state intervention.
For a followup on the universitys ac
tions as a result of the raids on the frater
nities last weekend, see the story on page 
E3 of this special issue of The Tartan.
Following his prepared statement,
Cyert answered questions from the press.
A full transcript follows.
Due to equipment problems, two ques
tions from the press were unrecorded by 
The Tartan. The Tartan regrets any re
sulting inconvenience.
Thank you very much. I want to thank all 
of you for coming out this afternoon so 
r that we could talk a little bit about the 
universitys views on what has happened 
over the weekend; it hit the media in a big 
way.
First let me say that the university supPolice
ill V 4:  Mit ME 'tPPj Gillespie
iqlusnlrt awlqt cnnqluulu ut.nlrtu crn WlWdlqu ob tvl fqluu ct eorncw;u fqluu porblqlrpl,

---------------------------------------------------

Page E2The TartanDecember 4,1987
Cyert: Warrant Was Inadequate For Entry
continued from page El
this. As I understand it, several LCB 
agents were admitted to the party. But, 
nevertheless, there was an attempt to do 
that Clearly, our fraternities are going to 
have to be more vigilant in their carding, 
but there is that attempt.
In general, this campus, I would say, 
does not have any kind of drinking prob
lem. In fact, something that wasnt men
tioned is that there is no hard liquor in the 
fraternities. Fraternities have voluntarily 
modified their own policies and have beer 
and, I guess, wine there. Our fraternities 
voluntarily had a policy of dry rushes, so 
when they are rushing students it is with 
no alcohol. So there are a numberof things 
to indicate that our students are respon
sible students, and have tried very hard to 
be law-abiding.
Have you had a chance to speak with the 
LCB officials regarding, in particular,
how the incident was handled Saturday 
morning?
I have not had the chance to talk with 
them. Our Chief of Police has talked with 
them, and we are setting up a meeting with 
them with a number of our administration 
to talk frankly with them to try to make 
arrangements so things like this wont 
happen again.
Do you know which MS organization the 
CMU students were working with for this 
fundraiser?
Well, they are working for the national 
organization.
That's Students Against Multiple Scle
rosis?
Yes. They are doing this on their own, 
and thats where the funds will go.
But they in no way had contact with the 
two existing MS organizations in the city 
of Pittsburgh?
To the best of my knowledge, they did 
not. They were doing this on their own.
Could you comment on the appropriate
ness of a beer blast" for a fundraiser?
Well, I guess youd want to get people 
there who would be contributing, and this 
seemed to the studentsand we approved 
itthat it was one way in which they 
would be able to make some bucks.
You say the university approved this
beer party?
It was my understanding that we did 
approve this as a fundraising device.
On what basis was entry gained to the 
party by the law erf or cement agents? Did 
they have a warrant, did they just walk 
in...?
It was my understandingand we still, 
as I said, have a lot of investigating to
dothat they did have a search warrant 
which, to our eyes, was quite inadequate.
What was that warrant based on? A 
previous party? And, if so, how did they 
gain entry to that initial party?
I do notknow how they got entry, but ap
parently, since they came with three buses 
plus television, they seemed to know what 
was going on, that there was a party. So 
they were apparently assuming that there 
would be something they could do some
thing about there.
Are those houses owned by the fraterni
ties or by the University?
Theyre owned by the university, which 
leases them to the fraternities.
Was what they did legal? Can they come 
on campus?
Thats one of the things were investi
gating. Im not a lawyer, but it does not 
seem to me that that was a proper thing. 
We had no notification; there was abso
lutely no notice to us that the LCB consid
ered anything wrong with the campus.
In addition, for some reason, a fire in
spector was brought along that cited one 
of the fraternities because a light was out 
over an exit signthe bulb had been 
burned out and hadnt yet been replaced.
In light of what happened here over the 
weekend, if another fraternity wants to 
have a fundraiser and they wanted to have 
kegs of beer at the party, would the univer
sity allow that?
We certainly will allow it, but what we 
will certainly tell them is to be very, very 
careful about the way its carried out But 
again, we would hope that we would have 
the ability to meet with the LCB. We 
know they will meet with us, and we will 
get the various understandings ironed out 
with them so that we can continue to 
function as a university.
(question unknown)
Well, I dont know. There may be some
body up there that either doesnt like fra
ternities, doesnt like Carnegie Mellon, or 
doesnt like universities. I said that in a 
loose fashion; I dont have a precise per
son or piece of evidence in hand, and for 
all I know it's not valid, but it just seems 
to be a very peculiar set of circumstances. 
Are you and the University of Pittsburgh 
doing anything about drying up the supply 
to the campus area? From my under
standing there is a 24-hour beer house 
they never have to run out of beer. Is there 
any move in that direction to maybe slow 
things up?
We dont operate that way. We believe 
that one of the things that students learn in 
a university is how to manage themselves 
and to discipline themselves.
And one of the reasons why we treat fra
ternities as we do, where we lease the 
building to them and they are then respon
sible for maintaining it..well, thats not 
completely true; we do some of the main
tenance on request, but they have to pay 
for the maintenance. They have to handle 
their own finances and they have to disci
pline themselves in terms of the way in 
which the house is organized. We think 
thats an important part of learning in the 
university. So that were not going to go 
in, or have our security go in there and, 
say, check at random times to see whether 
theres beer available or something of that 
kind. We work with the fraternity lead
erswe have an understanding with them 
on what we want, the kind of behavior we 
would like, and the kind of behavior they
would likeand work these things out in 
that fashion. We have, we believe, a good 
fraternity system.
So you're not going to make any at
tempts to dry up the supply?
No, I dont know how we would do that 
or that we should do that or if there was 
anything that requires it. If we find, on # 
investigation, that there is something that 
needs to be changed in a radical fashion 
then we will change it But at this point, to 
the best of my knowledge, there was not 
any kind of bad behavior going on.
Although if that was, indeed, the situ
ation, if there were underage drinkers then 
we are very much opposed to that and do f - 
want to work further to try to stop that. 
(question unknown)
Yes, we understand, though we have not 
yet verified that there were students in 
their rooms studying who were dragged 
out and arrestedthey werent even at the 
party. We think the notion of handcuffing 
students, which I understand was on tele
visionI didnt happen to see itis ri- * 
diculous. We think that foul language to 
our students is not appropriate, and there 
undoubtedly are some other things. I 
understand that they did rough up some 
students. All of this is, for me, Ill have to 
emphasize, hearsay. I have not talked 
directly to the student to whom this hap
pened, but I have no reason to doubt the  
stories that I am getting . So there are a 
number of things that we think need very, 
very serious investigation.
How many were arrested?
As I understand there were something 
like 139 or 140 students who were ar
rested for drinking beer, and had to sign a 
statement They werent arrested for ^ 
drunkenness, as I understand; they were 
arrested for drinking beer, and were taken 
down and had to sign a statement that they 
were guiltythis was about 2:00 in the 
morningor spend the rest of the night in 
jail. They were not given even the oppor
tunities, as I understand it, to make tele
phone calls.
Then there were eleven who were arrested on grounds that they had sold liquor 
without a liquor license. If you were a 
bartender at the bar and $2 was given at 
the door for a donation, presumably you 
were selling liquor without a license.
How many other fundraisers are ap
proved by the university where they sell 
beer, and whats the understanding be- % 
tween the university and the LCB about 
the university selling beer without a li
cense?
We dont allow any liquor to be sold 
without a license. They werent selling it 
without a license. It was a donation for the 
party. It wasnt the case where you go in 
and pay X dollars and you get a beer, and ^ 
you pay X dollars and you get a beer. It 
was a $2 donation to get into the party and 
there was beer at the party. Which, to the 
best of our understanding, is not illegal.
And it's not uncommon for fundraisers 
to serve beer?
Well, its not uncommon for fraternities 
to have a party where there is beer served.
Doyou see anything different in what the 
fraternities were doing and what someone 
would do at a private party?
Its exactly the same in my view, and the 
point I was trying to get atmaybe I 
didnt make very clearas much as pos
sible we try to have the students treat
continued on page E4
16 INCHPEPPERONI PIZZA $4.^fox
Saturday 11 am - 2 am
Sunday through Friday 3 pm - 2 am
It is not uncommon for fraternities to have a 
party where there is beer served.

---------------------------------------------------

December 4,1987The TartanPage E3
University Hires Lawyer To Defend Students
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan News Editor 
Following mass arrests by Liquor Con
trol Board and state officials, Carnegie 
Mellon hired a lawyer and offered to 
represent the 147 students arrested in the 
raid.
In the raid at Pi Kappa Alpha and Delta 
Tau Delta fraternities, 11 students were 
arrested for selling alcohol to minors and 
selling alcohol without a license, and 136 
students were arrested for either underage 
drinking, disorderly conduct, or public 
intoxication.
Vice President for Development Alvin 
Brannick said that Jack Doherty of Reed 
Smith Shaw & McClay was hired to rep
resent the 11 who were charged with 
misdemeanors and help the 136 with 
appeals or advice.
We agreed that we would get a private 
attorney to work with the students...and 
see if they wanted to use him further in the 
case. The university has not put these 
people together in a group and hired an 
attorney for them; we hired an attorney to 
talk to them about whether they wanted to 
use him, said Brannick.
Pika President Evan Kaliner said that all
11 have chosen to use Doherty.
At their arraignment the night of the raid, 
Judge John Salton scheduled a November 
30 hearing for the 11 charged with the 
more serious offenses. But Monday, be
cause, according to Brannick, the police 
werent ready, the hearing was resched
uled for December 7.
As for the other 136, Dean of Student 
Affairs Brad Walter announced that there 
would be a meeting December 7 in the 
Ballroom at 6:00 pm for anyone who 
wanted to talk with Doherty about appeals 
or possible civil liberties violations.
In other news, the November 24 Pitts
burgh Press reported that Assistant Fire 
Chief Kevin Mellott, who assisted the
LCB with the raid, was stripped of the 
authority to supervise such raids and the 
authority to carry a gun by Public Safety 
Director Glenn Cannon.
The Press reported that Cannon said 
underage drinking could have been 
curbed by sending three or four officers to 
the fraternities to issue citations.
Im sure that in this whole fundraising 
thing ifthe city would have said, Wehave
a problem with you...and we are getting 
complaints about underage drinking and 
so forth and we think things have just 
gotten too far. All they had to do is call 
the President, call Brad Walter, call Angel 
Jordan and well have a meeting with 
them immediately to find out what their 
problem is and well talk to the fraternities 
and well get the thing resolved, Bran
nick commented.
Iflptctoqu mctvlq cu c ik d.u fqlfcqlu to tqcrufoqt c ocn ob ut.nlrtu to tvl i.dsp Icbltw h.snsrm yqsncw rsmvt,
from the Yard
We will be open for our regular hours until Monday
December 7.
From Tuesday through Friday we will be open for
lunch from 11 am - 3 pm.
Have a great winter break and we hope to see you
when we re-open in January.

---------------------------------------------------

Page E4The TartanDecember 4,1987
Cyert Defends Students
continued from page E2
fraternities as their homes; similarly in the 
dormitories. We do not, for instance, al
low security to go into a dorm room unless 
there is someone asking for it or some
thing of that kind.
We try to treat the rooms that the stu
dents rent as their rooms. So if a student 
goes into a room and does something 
thats illegal, it is exactly like someone 
doing something illegal in his or her own 
home.
So that we do try to respect the rights of 
students; we do try to treat these students 
as adults because we do believe they are 
adults, and that is also one of the ways we 
can have them develop as human beings.
What law firm have you retained?
We have talked with Reed Smith.
Have any of the students indicated they 
have brought in private counsel?
Weve talked with a couple of parents. 
Im not sure that any of them have yet 
decided. I assured the parents that we 
were investigating with the retaining 
counsel, so some of them may decide not 
to retain separate counsel, as they obvi
ously have that freedom to do.
What about the students who were obvi
ously not drinking, who were studying in 
their rooms...?
They apparently had to sign this state
ment. Its a misdemeanorI guess they 
will be asked to do community work, and 
I trust that it wont interfere with their 
school work.
They just dont have any rights at this 
point
The state police we talked to today said 
they staged the raid in response to numer
ous complaints from parents.
The parents have never complained to 
us, and I can assure you parents do not 
hesitate to complain. I make a very clear 
statement to the parents and to the stu
dents that I am free to be called, and I had 
a couple of calls on Sunday, as Im sure 
Dean Walter did, and I had 1 or 2 calls this 
morning. I cant believe that parents 
would complain about something of that 
kind.
I would assume that our parents would 
talk to their children if they dont want 
them to drink. I would assume they would 
talk to them directly, and certainly after 
that would talk to us about anything that 
they thought was wrong.
However, if the state police said that 
they received these numerous calls then I 
assume theyre telling the truth. My only 
comment is why didnt they call us? Why 
did they have to go through this sort of 
publicity stunt to make anything felt? We 
have always been responsive and we cer
tainly would be responsive, but further 
than that we do keep a good eye on what 
is going on at the fraternities, as do a 
number of the fraternity officers. This is 
not some sort of unregulated orgy that our 
students go through in fraternity houses; 
they might wish they could...
The impression that is given is that eve
rybody is drunk out here all the time. This 
is kind of silly, to say the least
Thank you all again for coming. I appre
ciate it very much.
TM
CALL NOW! por FRESH AND FAST 
FREE DELIVERY
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK
Full time & Part time drivers needed
 We honor all OUR COMPETITIONS' 
COUPONS in our delivery area!
 Attention Fraternities and Sororities! 
Call to register your house or organization for 
special discounts
HoursM-TH 11 am -12 am F-S 11 am -1 am Sun 1 pm -10 pm
/tsrtanzar.
Lunch/Brunch
good 11 am - 4 pm only 
112-1 item pizza 
2 cans Pepsi
$5.00 -i- tax
Good thru 1-31-87
Late Night Special
Orders after 9 pm 
$2.00 off any 16" 1 item pizza 
or $1.00 off 
any 12" 1 item pizza Good thru 1-31-87
682-2772
4710 Baum Blvd. 
Oakland/Shadyside
WfffmESr
Blast Packs
2 12" cheese pizzas for only 
$6.50 + tax 
or g xB cheese pizzas for only 
$8.50 -i- tax 
add'l items extra
Good thru 1 -31 -87 ^
aeS It.nlrtu :rT.qln sr ppsnlrt
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan News Editor
Three Carnegie Mellon students were 
involved in an automobile accident in 
Butler over Thanksgiving break.
At about 4:00 am Saturday morning, 
a Saab carrying six people and driven 
by Zane Neely, a Butler native and 
student at Alford Engineering School, 
careened into a telephone pole, injur
ing CMU students Tom Scuoteguazza, 
Anne Wagner, and Eric Shultz.
All three Woodlawn Apartment resi
dents were taken to Butter Memorial 
Hospital.
Scuoteguazza, a sophomore chemis
try and history major, was later flown 
via LifeFlight to Allegheny General 
Hospital. At the time of publication, 
Scuoteguazza was in the Allegheny
General Trauma Unit (an Intensive 
Care Unit) in serious condition with 
multiple fractures.
Allegheny General lists patients as 
critical, serious, fair, or good.
Scuoteguazza, 19, graduated from 
Butler High School in 1986 and was 
home visiting his family.
Wagner, a senior art major, is in But
ler Memorial Hospital in fair condi
tion. A Resident Assistant from St. 
Louis, MO, Wagner was visiting 
Scuoteguazza and Shultz in Butler.
Shultz, a freshman humanities and 
math major from Butler, was treated at 
Butler Memorial Hospital and later 
released.
According to Shultz, Neely was 
going a little bit too fast around a turn 
when he hit the telephone pole.
O
The Tartan
EXTRA Itcbb
j.uu IlsmWcr'cq hcqrvcqt
zqsp Ll.slttldqlpvt ioMl
Klrr Ipv.utlqrnqlM Kslufsl
hq.pl 'cuql
JL]
Jq.l eslq
vpy Uiolidays!
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center 268-2922After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator will help you reach the staff member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh.................................................................................. 782-402324 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive listening
Drug Connection........................................................................................... 854-0700An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 5 - 9 pm
Tel-Aid................................................................................................................. 281-4664A Series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safety issues. Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs
O
O
