his fact alone, we feel,
(ah'). This Committee recommends that the 
roress as stated tn the Handbook be adheredCynthia Tbylor, MCS; Stephen Volan, H9SS; 
Leanne Chu, SDC; Stephanie Wardrop, SDC; 
Don Eggert, At Large ______________2  77$ Committee has reason to believe that
The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 85, Number 9, November 13, 1984.
ert removes himself from appeal
AtL arrage
fartan Sports Editor
CMU President Richard M. Cyert has 
tepped down from the board which will 
tear Zeta Beta Taus appeal of the adninistrative decision to dissolve the
raternity.
made the decision last Wednesday, 
a meeting with Student Senator Peter 
SDC Representative Stephanie WarTartan Sports Editor Don Eggert, and 
Vice President for Academic Affairs 
l)hn P. Crecine. The three students were 
I lembers of the Student Senate committee 
| iat analyzed the UDC hearing of the 
licident.
I In addition to excluding himself from the 
I Dpeals board, Cyert agreed to examine 
losely the committees report (see box 
I ilow). He suggested the possibility of forl ing an intermediate appeals board, to be 
Imposed of administration, faculty, and 
I udents. The university and the appealing
 irty would both have the right to appeal
the intermediate boards decision to the 
presently existing board, which consists of 
Cyert, Crecine, and Dean of Student Affairs 
Braden Walter.
As an interim solution to mediate the pre
sent case, a special appeals board will be 
formed to hear ZBTs appeal. The board 
members will be Crecine, Walter, one faculty 
member approved by Faculty Senate, and 
one student. The student was selected with 
the approval of Student Government Presi
dent Bill McCormick, Student Senate Chair
man John Pane, and Cohen, chairman of 
the special committee. According to Cohen, 
the student is a Student Senator who wishes 
to remain anonymous.
Cohen believes the committees report is 
the main reason that the administration is 
considering changes in the appeals process. 
He commented, The decisions of Cyert and 
Crecine show that the universitys ad
ministration is willing to listen. This shows 
that students who do take action can not on
ly be heard, but can obtain positive results.
IThis independent Student Senate committee 
was formed during the meeting of October 30, 
198* to investigate perceived injustices in the trial 
of the parties involved in the Margaret Mormon 
Apartments incident of October 2, 1984.
In the process of analyzing the situation, this 
committee has uncovered new information 
which should be taken into account. We do not 
wish to reverse the decision pasted by the Dean 
of Student Affairs; rather, we wish to implement 
the following changes into disciplinary process:
!.) According to the 1984-3 Student Handbook 
(p. 40. under Composition of the University 
Co:nmitte on Discipline [UDC]), the 
"UDC will consist of one University of
ficer or one Dean or senior faculty 
member, two members of the faculty, and 
two students. . .Student* on the panel 
of Student 
. of Student
has not been, m recent memory, a 
has been asked to sit on.the 
approved by Student Senate, 
constitutes h gross er (p 41, under uApReport of the .id-Hoc Committee to Investigate 
the University Committee on Discipline Hear
ing of the Margaret Morrison Apartments In
cident
the Appeals Committee for this case is biased 
agaii^t the appealing party. Therefore, we wish 
to alter the present met hod of appealing UDC 
decisions. The passage in the Student Handbook 
(p.4I, under Appeals) should be changedfrom 
Such an appeal will be acted upon by 
 a committee consisting of the President 
of the University, the Senior VicePresident for Academic Affairs, and the 
Dean of Student Affairs
Such an appeal will be acted upotHjy 
a committee similar to the [UDC], consitting of one University Officer, two 
members of the faculty who are approv
ed by Faculty Senate, and two students 
approved by the Dean of Student Affairs 
and Student Senate. No members of the 
[UDC] for the case in question can also 
sit on the Appeals Committee, and via 
versa. It follows that the Dean of Student 
Affairs also may not sit on the Appeals
Peter Cohen, H9SS, Chair; Michael Bett, 
MCS, Vice- Chair; Cherie Jagenki, CIT; Tamal 
Mukherjee, CIT; Jaqueline PisciteUo, H9SS;
MCS; Stephen Volan, H9SS;
photo by Colin Rafferty
President Cyert has pledged to examine possible changes in the UDC appeals process.
Reagan wins landslide vote; 
Mondaie takes 13 electoral votes
Ronald Reagan said that this is just the beginning" in his victory speech.
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan News Editor
President Ronald Wilson Reagan defeated 
former Vice President Walter Mondaie to 
win re-election as United States President in 
the highlighted race of last Tuesdays na
tional election.
Mondaie won just 13 electoral votes, the 
second lowest total for a Democratic can
didate in the 200 years of presidential elec
tions. Stephen Douglas won just 12 in a four
way race won by Abraham Lincoln in 1860. 
Reagan had 525, and took every state besides 
Mondales home state of Minnesota (Mon
daie also won the District of Columbia).
The voters of Pittsburgh sent a message 
to Reagan, however. With one of the highest 
unemployment rates in the country, the ci
ty is not happy with the present administra
tion. Mondaie defeated Reagan 129,707 to 
53,686 in Pittsburgh. Mondaie also defeated 
Reagan in Philadelphia. Reagan took most 
of the rest of the state, winning Penn
sylvanias 25 electoral votes by 2,556,965 to 
2,205,981 votes.
Despite the Republican presidents land
slide victory, the Democrats picked up two 
seats in the Senate. Republicans picked up
12 seats in the House of Representatives.
A major Republican loss was in the Illinois 
Senate race. 18-year veteran Senator Charles 
R. Percy was defeated by Democratic 
Representantive Paul Simon. Percy was heac 
of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
Sen. Jesse Helms won re-election over 
Democratic Governor James B. Hunt in the 
most expensive Senate race in history. The 
two men spent $22 million between them. 
Helms could be in line to replace Percy as 
head of the Foreign Relations Committee, 
but in his campaign he has promised North 
Carolina voters that he would not relinquish 
his chairmanship of the agriculture commit
tee, very important to North Carolinians.
South Carolina Senator Strom Thurmond 
won re-election. Thurmond, 81, will be 87 
years young when his six year term ends.
In Pennsylvania elections, LeRoy Zimmer
man defeated Democratic challenger Allen 
Ertel in the race for Attorney General. Zim
merman won by a 2,241,153 to 2,205,243 
count in a hotly contested campaign.
Democrat Don Bailey defeated Susan 
Shanaman in the Auditor General election. 
Republican R. Budd Dwyer defeated 
challenger A1 Benedict in the race for State 
Treasurer.
All five local Democratic incumbents won 
re-election. These included Joseph Kolter in 
the fourth district; William Coyne in the 
14th district; Doug Walgren in the 18th 
district; Joseph Gaydos of the 20th district; 
and Austin Murphy in the 22nd district.
State Senate seats were won by Dem. 
James Romanelli in the 43rd district, Rep. 
D. Michael Fisher in the 37th district, and 
Dem. Edward Zemprelli of the 45th district.
Pennsylvania voters also passed two state 
amendments. The first called for special tax 
provisions for longtime homeowners, and the 
second allows voluntary confessions to be us
ed to impeach the credibility of a defendant 
with out being construed as compelling a 
person to give evidence against himself.
In this issue:
News
Faculty evaluations............................page 2
WRCT talk shows-----.......... page 3
Features
Hugh Young recognized...................page 7
CMU students polled.........................page 8
Entertainment
Comedy of Errors reviewed...........page 11
Wide grooves popular.....................page 11
Sports
Mens BB preview. ....... page 17
CC takes fifth place.........................page 11
Editorial
Senate election apathy...................page 18

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanNovember 13, 1984
Sony Corp. Chairman Morita delivers lecture
By BONNIE JACOBSON
Tartan Staffwriter
On Nov. 6, Akio Morita, Chairman and 
Chief executive officer of Sony Corporation 
delivered the 1984 Benjamin E Fairless Lec
ture in the Skibo Ballroom.
Among Moritas accomplishments as cofounder of Sony is the development of the 
worlds first fully transistorized television set 
in 1959. Morita also had a hand in the 
development of many products which 
revolutionized communication and educa
tion, such as tape recorders, television 
receivers, magnetic tapes, the Walkman 
stereo cassette player and the Betamax
recorder/pl ayer.
Morita has been the recipient of many 
awards, among which are the 1982 Direc
torate Award from the International Coun
cil of the National Academy of Television 
Arts & Sciences, the 1982 Albert Medal from 
the Royal Society of Arts (England) and a 
Legion of Honor from the Republic of 
France.
The Fairless lecture series is named for 
Benjamin F. Fairless, president of U.S. Steel 
for 15 years and chairman of the board from 
1952-55. Fairless was on its board of trustees 
from 1952 until his death in 1962.
Faculty Course Evaluations of teaching performance distributed to students
By MOHAN EMBAR
Tartan Editorial
CMUs Academic Affairs Office is 
distributing Fall 1984 Faculty Course 
Evaluation forms (FCEs) in classes through 
next Wednesday. Students use FCEs to 
evaluate professor performance and course 
effectiveness.
Forihs during this period will be 
distributed during the last fifteen minutes 
of class. The professor will leave the room as 
students complete the forms. A student 
volunteer will hand deliver the completed 
forms to the Academic Affairs Office in 
Warner Hall 301.
Each form has eleven evaluation questions 
and a section for evaluation comments. Nine 
questions deal with instructor effectiveness 
and two concern course organization and 
quality. Questions are ranked on a scale of 
one (poor) to five (excellent). Students mark 
the appropriate ranking in a box next to 
each question.
According to Catherine Copetas of the Of
fice of the Associate Vice-President for 
Academic Affairs, speaking on behalf of Pat 
Keating, Director of Planning, FCEs are an 
important component of faculty reappoint
ment, promotion, tenure, and salary review 
processes. They are effective, she says, 
because the statistical results are published 
for the university community to view and the 
comments are sent back to the department 
heads. FCEs are the students spokepiece, 
she said. They dont want to pass up the op
portunity to make some serious commen
tary.
Fall FCE results will be published in 
newspaper format [in one of] the first cou
ple weeks in January, said Copetas. The 
papers will be distributed at normal Tartan 
dropoff points after semester grades are in.
Students who have questions as to why a 
particular course is not being evaluated may 
contact the Academic Affairs Office at 
Warner Hall (x3017) or the Academic Affairs 
Committe of Student Senate.
N EW from KOH-I-NOORFacultyFacCorseEvsin crE frh
$29.95
WHILE SUPPLIES LAST
A*453Value
ONLY
Featuring:
3 RapidographR Precision Line Widths: 00/.30, 0/.35,1/.50 
1 Bottle 3080-F Universal Black Drawing Ink 
1 FREE Imbibed 9600/PT20 Eraser to remove ink from film 
1 FREE 286J Vinyl Eraser to remove graphite from paper 
1 FREE Tube Koh-I-Noor Poly-MaxM Lead: 0.5 mm
nAt-'lDOGPAPH and RAPlDuMATiC are reqistftecJ Tradt-marfcS o' KO1 t-Noo? Rap dOQMi '
AVAILABLE AT C MU ART STORE
A complete system 
for drawing with 
ink or lead.
item 3165 SP 3R

---------------------------------------------------

November 13, 1984The TartanPage 3
WRCT begins two weekly call-in talk shows
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan News Editor
WRCT-FM, Carnegie-Mellons student 
run radio station, has begun two new talk 
shows as weekly features.
On Wednesday night from 5:30-6:30 pm, 
a news format program is broadcast. This 
show takes on different looks on alternate 
weeks. WRCT News Director Wayne Mesard 
and Head Engineer Greg Gray take turns 
running the show, and each has a different 
philosophy.
Mesard said that his main problem is 
that people dont want to hear talk; they 
want to hear music. You must keep it in
teresting. To satisfy FCC (Federal Com
munications Commission) rules, you have to
do a certain amount of public service, and 
that is Feedback, the name of Mesards ver
sion of the show.
Gray said that he is trying to address 
issues that affect how the campus relates to 
the community. There is all kinds of stuff 
going on around us. Grays show has been 
tentatively called RadioActivity.
Also on WRCT, Sportsline appears every 
Monday night from 8:30-9:00. The show 
features an interview with a sports personali
ty each week, along with a rundown on 
CMU, local, and national sports.
Both shows are call-in talk shows, which 
helps the listener set the direction of the 
show, said Mesard. The number to call is 
621-WRCT or x2883.
National Research Council plans 
competition for minority students
The National Research Council plans to 
award approximately 35 Postdoctoral 
Fellowships for Minorities in a program 
designed to provide opportunities for con
tinued education and experience in research 
for Americans, Mexican
Americans/Chicanos, and Puerto Ricans. 
Fellows will be selected from among scien
tists, engineers, and scholars in the 
humanities who show greatest promise of 
future achievement in academic research 
and scholarship in higher education.
In this national competition sponsored by 
The Ford Foundation, citizens of the United 
States who are members of one of the 
designated minority groups, who are prepar
ing for or already engaged in college or 
university teaching, and who hold doctoral 
or other terminal degrees may apply for a 
fellowship award of one years duration.
Awards in the Postoctoral Fellowships for 
Minorities Program will be made in the
behavioral and social sciences, humanities, 
engineering, mathematics, physical sciences, 
and biological sciences, and for inter
disciplinary programs comprised of two or 
more eligible disciplines. Awards will not be 
made in professions such as medicine, law, 
social work, library science, and sUch areas 
as business administration and manage
ment, educational administration, cur
riculum development and supervision, 
teacher training, and personnel and 
guidance. Tenure of a fellowship provides 
postdoctoral research experience at an ap
propriate not-for-profit institution of higher 
educational or research of the Fellows 
choice. Appropriate institutions include 
universities, museums, libraries, government 
or national laboratories, privately sponsored 
not-for-profit research organizations, and 
centers for advanced study. The deadline for 
submission of applications is January 16, 
1985.
Secretary of Education Bell 
resigns from Cabinet position
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan News Editor
Secretary of Education Terrel Bell spoke 
of personal reasons as he resigned his 
cabinet post Thursday, effective December 
31.
Bell, who was originally appointed by 
President Ronald Wilson Reagan in order 
to help phase out the Department of Educa
tion, actually saved the program with a re
cent push to raise the quality of higher 
education.
Bell will return to his Salt Lake City home 
to help run the familys sod farm and 
become a professor at the University of Utah.
Democrat William Bennett, 41, head of 
the National Endowment for the 
Humanities is a leading contender to replace 
him, along with Boston University President 
John Silber.
The
Presidents Distinguished Lecture Series
presents
Paul K. Wright
Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering 
Carnegie-Mellon University
ART and AUTOMATION: 
The Two Cultures
Tuesday, November 13, 1984 
4:30 pm
Skibo Ballroom e
CMU
Free and open to the public

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanNovember 13, 1984
Search Committee formed to seek 
replacement for H&SS Dean Kiesler
813 S. Aiken Ave. 
Shadyside 
682-4063
Mon. Fri. 99 Sat. 95
Super Cuts for Guys and Gals
Thanksgiving Library Schedule
Hunt Library E&S Library
Wad.November 21 8:00 am - 5:30 pm 8:00 am -5:30 pm
Thurs. November 22 Closed Closed
Fri. November 23 -
Sit November 24 9:00 am - 5:00 pm 9:00 am - 5:00 pm
Sun. November 25 Regular Hwrs Resume Regular Hours Resume
 B international New YocV, N Y. 10018 K"* enlarged to show detail.
Now that tt*s time to purchase your college ring, think about choosing the finesta 14K gold college ring from ArtCarved.Designed and handcrafted for lasting value, ^ij ArtCarved 14K gold college ring is now more affordable than ever. For a limited time only, you can save $5 on the style of your choice. Stop by to see the entire ArtCarved collection and custom options. Remember, its your year for gold!
CLASS RINGS
10 am  4 pmSkiboTues. 8c Wed., Nov. 34
Date TimeDeposit Required. MasterCard or Visa Accepted
Place
0194 ArtCarved Class Rmgs
By BONNIE JACOBSON
Tartan Staffwriter
A search committee is being formed to 
find a permanent replacement for Charles 
Kiesler, Dean of H&SS, who is going to 
Vanderbilt University to fill their position of 
Provost.
The job is being filled temporarily by 
Associate Dean Anthony Penna and his posi
tion by Michael Salomone. ,
The committe is to provide the President 
and the Vice President with the names of 
at least two acceptable candidates by April 
1, 1985. The committee hopes to have come 
to a decision by the 1985-86 term.
The following people have agreed to be 
members of the Search Committee:
David KlahrHead & Prof., Psychology
Patrick Larkey-Head & Assoc. Prof. Soc.Sci. 
Ludwig SchaeferHead & Prof., History 
John LehoczkyHead & Prof., Statistics 
Gary WallerHead & Prof., English 
Peggy KnappAssoc. Prof., English 
David KuferAssoc. Prof., English 
Andrew AchenbaumAssoc. VP, Acad. Aff. 
Andrew Wansor  Sophomore, H&SS
Granger Morgan  Head & Prof., Engineer
ing & Public Policy 
Pat GracyalnyChair of H&SS Student Ad
visory Committee
Andrew Wansor Sophomore, H&SS 
There is a great feeling of pride and pro
gress in this college. Any replacement would 
have to fit into these plans of growth and op
portunity.
Lewis'
Creative 
Hair Team
02*}
Earrings: 14 Kt. goldyour choice of stone $23.95 pr. 
_ 2 QSWMatching ------Pendant: 14 Kt. goldyour choice of stone $23.95 ea.
With 16" 14k gold chain
12 beautiful Birthstone Colors to choose from.
January Garnet July Ruby
FebruaryAmethyst August Peridot
March Aquamarine SeptemberSapphire
April White Zircon October Opal
May Emerald November Citrine
june Pearl DecemberBlue Topaz
Reaa ganwnisldCONTACT: j
Dr. Charles Kiesler
Now You Can Buy Your Holiday Gifts Right On Campus And Save 50%
HANDSET IN 14 KARAT GOLD

---------------------------------------------------

November 13, 1984-The Tartan-Page 5
Campus recruitment shows healthy gains
CPC sees good job prospects for college grads
Bl, STTSAN 72tg$C MMMMMMMMMMMM UBy SUSAN SKORUPA
College Press Service 
Job prospects for this years college grads 
look great, the national association of cam
pus placement officers says.
In its annual survey of Fortune 500 com
panies, the College Placement Council 
found the firms plan to hire eight percent 
more new grads than they did last year.
Sixty-five percent of the companies an
ticipate more economic growth in 1985.
Even the current economic slowdown 
wont dampen spirits, CPC spokeswoman 
Judith Kayser claims.
1985 will be a better year to be coming 
out of college than 1984, she affirms. "Were 
expecting the expansion to continue. We 
think the slowdown is healthy, and the 
economy will begin to accelerate at the 
beginning of 1985.
While 1984s spring campus recruitment 
showed healthy gains over 1983, the worst 
recruitment season in 25 years, career and 
placement advisors are delighted with the 
predicted hiring upswing.
Its good news, Victor Lindquist, Nor
thwestern Universitys director of placement 
exclaims. Its almost like the return to the 
Idays of old. Like five years ago, anyway. 
Lindquist, author of the annual EndicottI
eport, another survey of graduates employ
ant opportunities, notes Northwesterns 
ecruitment calendar is booked far into 
pring, 1985.
Companies heavily into recruiting are 
Jhowing up with more recuiters, he adds.
Recruiting is definitely up, agrees Gerry 
flaneuf, the University of Nebraskas career 
Dlacement director. Its not so much in the 
number of companies, but in the number 
l)f positions being offered.v
r
The best opportunits exist in computer 
science, accounting, and electrical and 
mechanical engineering, where hiring 
should increase seven percent, the CPC 
survey shows.
Engineering, math, and other business 
and technical categories should increase as 
well, the survey says.
Engineering and technology were hit last 
by the downturn, but were first to recover, 
Kayser explains.
Retail and service industries also expect 
to increase hiring significantly.
But firms in the banking, finance and in
surance industries say they 11 hire five per
cent fewer grads, while electrical machinery 
and equipment firms expect hiring to drop 
nine percent, the report found.
There are other anomolies in this years 
job outlook.
Though job prospects in the South recent
ly have been better than in the rest of the 
nation, Liz Hill of Manpower, Inc.s quarter
ly Job Outlook Survey finds its no longer 
head ai\d shoulders above the rest.
People in the Northwest, hardest hit by 
the recession, can expect a 25 percent hiring increase this quarter.
More companies are wanting to come 
here to recruit, reports Laure Paul of Drew 
University, which emphasizes liberal arts.
Small business will provide expanding 
opportunities for liberal arts students, CPCs 
Kayser observes. Almost all new jobs in the 
last few years were created by small business, 
compared to the millions of jobs lost by For
tune 500 companies.
The CPC survey predicts a one percent 
small business hiring decrease, but Kayser 
notes only a few are represented in the 
survey.
There are clouds in the hopeful economic 
outlook, however, Northwesterns Lindquist 
warns.
Optimism about next year is cautious, 
not unbridled, he stresses. Many major 
firms are doing little recruitment. Instead, 
theyre trying to protect their old staffs and 
are expressing some concern about the se
cond half of 1985.
Lindquist notes the large federal debt 
discourages most experts from predicting 
what will happen to money markets or, 
ultimately, employment.
Students remain cautious, too, Drews 
Paul says.
Theyve seen their older brothers and 
sisters going through hard times in the past 
few years, she says. So theyre better prepar
ing themselves to look for jobs.
Last weeksanswer
BUSINESS LEADERS 
of Tomorrow. ..
<fotc one uuted to- cUcu4&
THE MICHIGAN MBA
Thursday, November 29
Jane Lieberthal
Assistant Director of Admissions
Appointments may be scheduled at 
Career Services & Placement Office
Diwali is a festival of lights 
celebrated throughout India 
which transgresses all religious 
borders  a time when the 
whole country is lit up and 
everybody has a good time. We 
at Mayur are bringing this festival 
mood to CMU.
Yes, we are planning to 
celebrate DIWALI on Nov. 18, 
here, right in our campus. If you 
are interested in joining us 
please contact:
MAYUR 
P.O. BOX 218, CMU
or call
Uday X2238 or 682-5082

---------------------------------------------------

JAMES R. PETERSEN
Activities Board Lecture Presents 
An Evening with the Playboy Advisor 
Wed., Nov. 14 7:30 p.m. Skibo Ballroom
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
f 'lay takes on tasks
Visiting professor amazed at campus friendliness
By KAREN GRAY
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Visiting Psychology professor Ruth S. Day, 
who currently teaches cognitive psychology 
at CMU, is taking on a wide variety of 
cognitive tasks herself. During her one year 
sabbatical from Duke University, she is 
writing two books, actively taking part in the 
workings of the university, and sitting in on 
a graduate level psychology course.
Im amazed at how welcomed Ive been, 
said Day. Ive been invited to things. Ive 
talked to people in other departments  
sciences, rhetoric.. . Ive formed many good 
colleagueships here.
Day said that several factors influenced 
her choosing CMU for a year. Though she 
as her own lab at Duke, she tries to avoid 
being stuck in one place. Before coming 
to CMU, she was on the faculties of Yale and 
Stanford Universities, and has given over 200 
talks to departments of various disciplines 
all over the country.
Day described CMU as a true original. 
[CMU] is forging its own destiny. I like seeng that. Ive always been interested in 
niversities.
Day graduated from Indiana University 
nd then went on to Stanford University 
hrough a highly selective program sponored by the Ford Foundation. This allowd her to receive her undergraduate and 
asters degree in psychology within one 
ear. She added that the only required 
ourse of the Ford Foundation group was 
me called The Idea of a University.
I always knew I wanted to be a college 
rofessor, said Day. This course opened me 
p to the governance of universities.
Day cites CMUs Psychology Department 
outstanding but sees an inverse correla|ion between the quality of the department 
nd the quality of the facility. According to 
ay, many psychology departments of lower
qualiiy in other universities have much bet
ter facilities.
Day enjoys the diverse group of students 
at CMU. Her psychology class has a large 
number of students majoring in engineer
ing, design, math and management, with 
a few from the basic sciences, psychology 
and the humanities.
The attitudes are different, said Day, 
who claims that, unlike other universities, 
CMU students are not as accustomed to 
courses outside their majors.
Most people said they had to take the 
course, said Day, but its a challenge to 
overcome these attitudes.
Day described what she sees as different 
about the course she teaches. I think theres 
more interaction in the class for a large 
class, adding that she knows who people 
are.
Day said that the nature of the exams and 
papers may also strike CMU students as 
slightly unusual. The objective, she said, is 
to learn a lot of new things and apply them 
to new things for a variety of possible 
answers.
A variety of imaginative paper topics also 
makes grading easier, according to Day. 
Reading all the same ones gets boring. She 
also noted that since the beginning of the 
course, the writing has dramatically im
proved.
Days current work on her two books is fed 
by enormous amounts of data a 14-foot 
truckload full which she brought with her 
to Pittsburgh. The first book, titled Pat
terns of Cognition, will examine two basic 
groups of people: language-bound and 
language-optional. The comprehensive pro
ject will predict how these two types will per
form in a wide variety of cognitive tasks.
The second book, Cognition in 
Teaching, is based on a course of the same
name which Day has taught as a seminar to 
college teachers.
The text will take various phenomena and 
apply it to the teaching at the college level.
Day said that the book will address a 
whole set of specific problems, such as stay
ing fresh when teaching the same course 
year after year, and giving lectures at the 
last minute.
One section of the book will be devoted 
to cognitive psychologys application in other 
teaching domains, such as the high school or 
graduate school environments.
Day is also getting the chance to interact 
with other professors in her graduate level 
cognitive core course. She said that this has 
given her the chance to learn how others 
feel about it its been great fun.
puuiu uy iviiot riiewsKi
Parking legally is not only a problem at CMU, but also one at the University of 
Pittsburgh.
Prospects conference held
By KATRIN WESNER
Tartan Asst. Production Mgr.
CMU was host to the two-day Prospects 
for Older Urban Neighborhoods Cononor societies recognize faculty member
pY JAY RUNKEL AND 
IELINDA SNELL
al to the Tartan 
Lambda Sigma, the sophomore honor 
uciety, and Mortar Board, the senior 
lonorary, this week initiate a regular 
pture in The Tartan. Each month members
of these organizations will recognize a faculty 
member for outstanding contributions to the 
university community.
The first selection is Dr. Hugh D. Young. 
Young is recognized for his continued in
terest in combining fine teaching with a 
strong personal interest in his students well
photo by Colin Rafferty
Dr. Hugh D. Young
being.
In addition to being a fine professor, 
Young is involved in numerous campus 
activities.
In the classroom, Young combines his 
broad knowledge of physics with effective 
communication skills. His lectures are always 
brightened with interesting comments 
designed to liven up the material, as well as 
make it more comprehensible. He always 
takes time to answer students questions and 
is willing to spend time outside of lecture 
helping students.
Outside of class, Young is interested and 
concerned. On the morning of the Physicsl 
final exam, Young joined the students who 
ate breakfast in the Kiltie Cafe, making con
versation and wishing them all good luck on 
their exam.
An action such as this can only make 
students reflect on the value of such a man 
as a professor, and no doubt made many feel 
that physics had been a rewarding 
experience.
A timely example of Youngs concern for 
students on a more personal level is his yearly 
practice of inviting students who are not go
ing home for Thanksgiving to join him and 
his wife for a Thanksgiving feast. The 
highlights of the evening include Mrs. 
Youngs delicious dinner followed by the pro
fessors virtuoso performance on the organ.
Lambda Sigma and Mortar Board will 
continue to recognize exceptional faculty 
members throughout the coming semester. 
We will gladly accept recommendations 
from student body, so be looking for more 
information on how to nominate your 
favorite professors.
ference held this past weekend. CamegieMellons Department of Architecture, School 
of Urban and Public Affairs, and Depart
ment of History were sponsors, along with 
other local organizations and foundations. 
Stephani Ledewitz, from the Architecture 
Department, was the committee chairman.
The conference was designed to bring 
together a multidisciplinary set of people 
in the hopes of identifying a set of issues that 
need to be addressed [in order to] develop 
an agenda for the next ten years, Ledewitz 
said. The theme of the weekend was to 
establish the relationship of local initiatives 
to large scale changes in society." At the con
clusion of the conference, a publication 
about the prospects for older urban 
neighborhoods will be compiled, based on 
the findings of the conference.
A major event was the neighborhood bus 
tour that looked specifically at changes in
We want to bring together a 
multidisciplinary set of 
people to identify issues 
that need to be addressed.
the three local neighborhoods of Manchaster, Oakland, and Hazelwood, which 
each have a different prospect for the future. 
In addition there were panel discussions on 
major factors in the future of older urban 
neighborhoods, like economic opportunity, 
housing and housing policy, and social and 
political organizations.
A featured speaker was Mitchell Sviridoff, 
who is the president of the Local Initiatives 
Support Corporation, a private-public ven 
ture for community and neighborhood 
revitalization. He spoke about urban 
neighborhoods, the story of their past, the 
conditions of their present, and the pro
spects for their future.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanNovember 13, 1984
PANTHER HOLLOWINN
4611 Forbes Avenue, Oakland 
Open 7 days a week
Kitchen open:
M F 11am11pm 
Sat 11am 8pm 
Sun 1pm 9pm
SandwichesSaladsHoagies 
Pitcher nights Tuesday and Wednesday 
$1.00 off all draft beers
The Tartan begins weekly survey, polls students
By NEAL JOHNSTON
Tartan Associate Features Editor
This past week I randomly surveyed peo
ple either in person or by phone (chosen 
from the C-Book) to some questions I had 
in mind. Surprisingly, people were willing 
to answer my questions.
I managed to get in touch 
^ with 72 people (this isnt coun
ting the one student who hung
up on me).
Every week I will telephone students to get 
their opinions on various questions I have 
in mind. Or better yet, I could use your 
questions (if youre wiling to send them to 
me). It doesnt matter if theyre serious or 
not, as long as theyre interesting.
Send any suggestions for questions or 
comments via campus mail to:
Neal Johnston 
The Tartan 
Skibo 50
And dont be surprised if I call you this week. 
The questions are easy enough and the pro
cess is painless.
 The first question asked was whether or 
not a person was registered, and if so, 
whether or not he/she voted:
Registered Not registered
81% 19%
Voted Not voted
78% 22%
Cmon peopleget out, register, and vote.
Believe it or not, your vote counts.
The next question was whether or not they 
listen to WRCTs talk shows (Feedback and 
Sportsline):
Listen Dont listen
19% 81%
Of those who dont listen, only about half 
(47%) know the talk shows exist. Doesnt 
anyone listen and participate in talkshows 
anymore?
 The last question asked whether or not 
people use a long distance phone service:
Use Dont use
56% 44%
Of those who use one, the services broke 
down as follows:
AT&T: 38%
USTel: 23%
MCI: 20%
Sprint: 15%
Allnet: 2%
Skyline: 2%
Please note, however, that this survey isnt 
done by professionals. There could be possi
ble errors, so this isnt the final word on the 
subject.
We are proud to announce thatThe Mannes College of Musichas moved to splendid new quarters on Manhattan's west side.
AUDITION DATES:
January 17, 18,1985 
March 6, 7. 8, 9,1985 
May 22. 23, 24, 1985
September 1985 dates to be announced
Scholarships are available.
M.M., Post-Graduate Diploma, B.M., B.S., Diploma.
Major Fields of Study
Ensembles in Residence
The GaNmk Stung Quartet 
The Dorian Wind Quintet 
The Mannes Trio
Associate Ensemble 
The Empire Brass Quintet
PIANO 
Edward Aidweti 
Arkady Aronov 
David Bar-Man 
Claude Frank 
Richard Goode
Eugenia Hyman 
UBanKaHr 
Marie Powers 
Josef Rated 
Peter Sertdn 
Nfr SveWanova 
Diane Walsh
HARPSICHORD 
Kenneth Cooper 
Eugenio Earie
ORGAN ond 
CHURCH MUSIC 
Ford LaBerrtedfwODmton
STRINGED INSTRUMENTS 
Nina Benina, Violin 
Raphael Bronstein.
Violin and Viola 
Isidore Cohen. Voim 
Felix Ga*mk, Violin 
Shirley Givens, Vioim 
Art Kavaflan. Violin 
Dora Schwortzberg. Vioim 
Sally Thomas, Vioim 
Hlrofco Yafima Vioim 
Paul Doktor. Viola ana Violin 
John Graham. Viola 
Sol Greitzer. Viola 
Mm Kashkashian. Viola 
Karen Tuttle. Viola 
Timothy Eddy. Violoncello. 
Gory Hoffman, violoncello 
Paul Tobias. Violoncello 
Julius Levine. Double Bass 
Homer Mensch. Double Bass
HARP
Gloria Agostini 
Lucie Lawrence
WOODWIND and BRASS 
Thomas Nytenger, Flute 
John \Morv Flute 
Mne Douvas Oboe 
Atoert Gotoer Oboe
Ronaid Roseman, Oboe 
Gervase de Peyer, Clarinet 
Peter Slmenauer, Clarinet 
Burt Biol. Bassoon and 
Contrabdssopn 
Harold Gottzer, Bassoon 
Judith LeOalr, Bassoon 
Alien Won, Saxophone 
Myron Bloom, French Horn 
Antonio iervoKno, French Horn 
Ranier Detntlnis. French Horn 
PhNp Myers, French Horn 
Mel Broites. Trumpet 
Vincent PenzereHa, Trumpet 
James Smith, Trumpet 
John Wore, Trumpet 
Per Brevig, Trombone 
Gflbert Cohen, Trombone and 
Boss Trombone 
Donold Harwood, floss Trombone 
Warren Deck, Tuba
TYMPANI and PERCUSSION 
Norman Grossman 
Howard Van Hynlngrtonm
CLASSICAL GUITAR 
E*ot Fisk 
Frederic Hand 
Sharon isfoin
Michoe* Newman 
Robert Secrist
ORCHESTRA and 
ORCHESTRAL CONDUCTING 
Sidney Harth, Music Director
CHORUS and 
CHORAL CONDUCTING 
Amy Kaiser. Music Director
VOICE
Charles Bressler 
Thomas Culttce 
Peter Elk us 
ENen Fault 
Jane Gunter 
Antonia Lavanne 
DanMarek 
Judith Raskin 
Marion Thompson 
Theodor Uppman
EARLY MUSIC 
Paul Echols. Director.
Mannes Camerota 
Wendy GWespte. Viols 
Benfomm Peck. Sackbuf 
Dennis Goodbum. Recorders.
Shawm. Duicion 
PhUp Levin, Recorders.
Borooue Bassoon
Bernard Kralnls, Recorders 
Eugenia Earle, Harpsichord 
Kenneth Cooper. Harpsichord 
Joseph ladone, Lute 
Jo Ann Falletta, Lute 
Sandra Miller, Baroque Flute
CHAMBER MUSIC 
and ENSEMBLE 
Per Brevig 
Gilbert Cohen 
Paul Doktor 
Timothy Eddy 
Felix GaHmir 
John Graham 
Howard Van Hynlng 
Julius Levine 
Marie Powers 
Peter Slmenauer 
HlrokoYaJIma
CONTEMPORARY 
ENSEMBLE 
Madeleine Shapiro
DICTION
Nico Castei, French. German.
and Italian 
Dorothy Urls, English
ACTING and 
STAGECRAFT
Nina David 
Loma Faraldl 
Louis Peterson
OPERA COACHING 
Marshall Williamson
SONG
INTERPRETATION
Antonia Lavanne
VOCAL
CHAMBER MUSIC 
Frederic Popper
SECONDARY PIANO 
Emilie Harris 
Miriam Kartch
COMPOSITION 
Charles Jones 
David Loeb 
Peter Pindar Stearns 
David Telmpidls 
Frederick Werte'
TECHNIQUES 
OF MUSIC 
Elizabeth Aaron 
Edward Aldwell 
Terry Champlln 
Robert Cuckson 
Douglas Diamond 
Leo Edwards 
David Gagne 
Charles Jones 
Ford LaHerstedt 
Larry Laskowskl 
David Loeb 
Mei-Mei Meng William Needeiman 
Frank Nemhauser 
Marie Powers 
Felix Salzer 
Carl Schchter 
Erk: Wen 
Frederick Werte
PEDAGOGY 
Emide Harris 
Marie Powers 
Carl Schchter
ACADEMIC STUDIES 
Lotte P Egers, PhD., German.
Art History 
Thomas E. Goldstein. Ph.D.t Western 
Civilization 
Andrew E. Green, M.M., History of 
Music
L Mtehoel Griff el, PhD, Graduate 
Studies. Literdture of Music 
Charles Kaufman. PtvD.. History of 
Music
Frances Keene. Dott., English 
Composition. Literature 
Martin Smith, MA English 
Composition. Literature 
Carol Rosen Xing. MA. English 
for Foreign Students
This is a complete list of the faculty
FOR INFORMATION: Write or call Ms. Rena Springer, Director of Admissions 
The Mannes College of Music  150 West 85th Street New York, N. Y. 10024  212-580-0210

---------------------------------------------------

November 13, 1984-
Stress affects learning
Report shows relationship between stress and student's ability to comprehendIKPS  Stress has been shnwn tn Ka > o h.ii.______ji__  . , " iwl IvJUSPS  Stress has been shown to have a 
direct effect on learning, according to a re
cent report, Student Stress: Effects and 
Solutions, published by the Association for 
the Study of Higher Education. Too much 
stress can reduce students ability to learn, 
while moderate stress was beneficial because 
'ft gave students an incentive to learn more. 
Students under low stress, like those under 
too much, learn the least.
Despite the vast amount of research on 
stress, an understanding of the concept is still 
limited and plagued with problems, the 
report said. Specifying exact sources of the 
stress college students feel is difficult, but the 
challenges inherent in college life seem to 
play a major part. College is an abrupt 
change for many students, bringing a 
separation from home and parents and morei
academic challenges during a period of 
great personal growth.
Although researchers do not understand 
why stress can lead to poor performance, 
they can recognize behaviors brought on by 
stress, the report said.
For instance, a student who panics while 
j taking an exam for which he has overstudied 
; excessively alert to the potential threat of 
doing poorly on an exam, the report said. 
Another student might instead rush through 
an exam to escape from the stress of taking 
the test.
During stressful times, students must findP
ieir own ways, effective or ineffective, to 
eal with their problems. Many will talk with 
friend or a member of their family while 
others will choose to exercise to work out 
their frustrations. Some will choose alcohol, 
drugs, excessive eating or other forms of selfiefeating behavior.
Ideally students will experience stress as
a challenge and be left with a sense of com 
petency, hope and an increased capacity to 
learn, the report said, but the ideal is not 
always the case. For some students, the 
threat of the educational process elicits 
helplessness and a foreboding sense of loss, 
the report said.
To reduce stress, students should take 
more control over their college education, 
the report said. Students should consider dif
ferent social, personal and academic factors 
they may experience in college that can be 
stressful.
The report advised students to expecPv 
greater isolation in college, more of a varie
ty of social and economic backgrounds in 
fellow students, greater variety of class size 
and teaching styles, greater personal respon
sibility for allocating time, more competi
tion and less feedback about progress.
By understanding and preparing 
themselves for new challenges, students can 
gain control over their environment and 
reduce the stress they experience, the report 
said.
Large institutions can cause extra stress 
for students because of fewer opportunities 
to participate in extracurricular activities 
and to work closely with the faculty, the 
report said.
Students, especially those at large schools, 
need to become familiar with what services 
and activities are available to them so they 
may feel at home in their school environ
ment, the report said.
Formal activities for acquainting the stu
dent with his school include senior and new 
student buddy systems, faculty and student 
meetings in each academic discipline to 
discuss how to succeed and avoid typical 
roadblocks, and information from faculty
about the best learning methods students 
can use in their classes.
Perhaps more importantly, students can 
help themselves by helping others, the report 
said. College students make excellent peer 
counselors and can help themselves adapt 
while working with others through such 
things as informal academic orientation.
Faculty and administrators can play a 
part in reducing student stress. The report 
suggested that schools issue midsemester
grades to freshmen who need feedback, give 
specific feedback to whole classes when pro
blems or successes are shared, allow student 
participation in curriculum, student evalua
tion of course material and teacher perfor
mance evaluation.
Improved teaching ultimately helps 
reduce student stress, the report said. The 
report suggested that faculty have a role in 
counseling and referral, especially by being 
a sympathetic listener.
t|(m should be. . .
W>er& out to get you!
Cmu Gaming Club
meetings
Rov. 3- Highlander Room 
Rov. 10 Room 11:
Rov. 17 Room 11:
Dec. 1- Highlander Room:
mere Info-cell Bret X4463 er Freak X3900
Supported by the Stotfent Senete
1:00 pm 
1:00 pm 
1 :D0 pm 1:00 pm

---------------------------------------------------

ODDC-MU / UNITED WAY 1984
Time to Care More,Share More...

v^~-*,---rrr-i^XZs.Z^ V
- :.( ? e 
UiL-. **= T-k. 1 fe-v
-LI
- fe S
4'/7 Grunti n .16 2 141h Guardi .32 1 W* Guitfrd 
25V GlfWst 
13'/ GulfRs 10 GlfStUt 1.64 12.5 
39 GtfSU pf 4.02e 9.5
.6 3.1 ; 
.90 3.1 2.5
27 GffSU pr 4.40 14.2 
' 55% GKSU pf 8.80 14.0 14V GAaro .5Se 3.6 14 Guttan .60 4.0
Professional CFA
Centers
8.9 4.6
weekending Nov.2
CIT
10.0
H&SS
10.5
GSIA
8.0
SUPA
20.4
total $ 26,505.00
a
.10
MCS
9.8
Administration
Department
9.1
total % 9.4
gpm db
gacFu cuVVa db
fer Friendly Service and the Best Products 
Ke Use 1CC% Pure Mozzarella Cheese,
Do ethers?
URGE 1C CUT PIZZA INCLUDING 2 LITERS CF PEPSI
^TSk/
FOR LUNCH & DINNER
EAT IN CE 
TAKE CUT
PIZZA-Z
Of der your favorite 
with all the extras'
rCCE DELIVERY 5:CC PM-2:CC AM 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEr 
3415 ECPEES AVE. PGH. PA, 15213 
PCNE 61-222 CP 681-22C3
% of participation

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
Hilarious
Drama opens season with Shakespeare revamp
By TERI BREIER
Tartan Staffwriter
If members'of the opening night audienced of A Comedy of Errors were not quite 
rolling in the aisles, at least one or two cast 
members were. However, there was no lack 
of hilarity. The Drama Depart
ments 70th Season opener, 
November 1, constantly evoked 
a full range of amused reactions, 
from snickers to chuckles to outright guffaws 
complete with applause and foot stomps. 
The Immortal Bard only gets one-fourth of 
the credit for the shows success, for penn
ing the play.
A second quarter goes to talented young 
director Matthew Vaky, 25. His innovative 
direction gives Shakespeares classic a semimodern facelift. Vaky combines lively stag
ing (and unstaging) with unconventional 
twists (in the action, characters, stage sets) 
to lead the audience on an irreverent romp
CMTJ Drama attempts a repeat of last 
years honors with A Comedy of Errors.
through the streets of Biblical Ephesus. The 
director (who has been with CMU in a stu
dent and professional capacity for over a 
decade) proves that Shakespeare can be just 
as successful with current audiences as he 
was with Wills own contemporaries.
The story itself is a tale of mistaken iden
tity, centering around two sets of identical 
twins separated since childhood. Written 
between Shakespeares farce and comedy 
periods the play is an enigma to many 
Shakespearean experts. It seems to possess 
qualities of both farce and comedy; the plot 
itself is so incredible that the situation sug
gests a farce, yet there are many more sub
tle elements of comedy present, too.
The third quarter of credit and a bouquet 
of long-stemmed roses goes to the wellassembled cast, composed mostly of senior 
acting majors. They worked very well 
together, although I received the impression 
that they were a bit too controlled in their 
acting. The reason was probably that it 
would be very easy to get carried away in this 
particular play, thus, caution was exercised. 
But on the other hand, I missed feeling the 
usual exuberance of an opening night, a 
kind of nervous enthusiasm that pervades 
the entire cast and transmits a special ex
hilarating energy to the first performance.
Despite the lack of an opening-night 
aura, each cast member was first-rate in his 
or her role, although space does not allow 
mention of everyone. John Gribben and Paul 
Schoeffler as the Antipholus twins (you have 
to s-t-r-e-t-c-h your imagination a teensy bit) 
provided an interesting contrast in de
meanors. Schoeffler played the Ephesus An
tipholus gruffly, almost bearishly, while 
Gribben turned in a suitably bewildered, 
bemused performance as the irrepressible 
Antipholus of Syracuse. Vakys decision, in 
an unorthodox bit of casting, to choose two 
women, K. Kirby and Janet Mitchko, to play 
Dromio of Ephesus and Dromio of Syracuse, 
respectively, works surprisingly well. Bedeck
ed in red Annie wigs, they were perfectly 
suited in the jesterish Dromio roles. Kathryn 
Oppenheimer was convincing as the alter -
Matthew Vakys version of William Shakespeares A Comedy of Errors 
Wednesday-Saturday at 8:00 pm until November 17 and Saturday at 2:00pm.
runs
nately distraught/angry/seductive wife of the 
native Antipholus; Deborah J. Turcotte was 
charmingly angelic as her innocent sister, 
Luciana. James Nardini was particularly 
humorous in the unusual (for him) role of 
Angelo, the gay jeweler. Cudos to the rest of 
the cast for excellent performances by all.
The last (but not least) portion of credit 
goes to the crew, the unsung, underclassmen 
heroes. They all put in tons of hours to sew 
up and distribute Susan Branchs lovely, 
original costume designs, assist Victoria Jeter 
and Adam Kushner with lights and sound
effects, and put together the beautiful set 
designed by Charles N. Shieber, including 
some interesting props that had personalities 
of their own. Stage manager Sue Jane Stoker, 
choreograher Judith Conte and dramaturg 
Dennis Manuel also did fine jobs.
A Comedy of Errors will continue its run 
through November 17, Wed Sat perfor
mances at 8:00 pm and Saturday matinees 
at 2:00 pm. Student discount rates are 
available. I highly recommend this play to 
children of all ages (5-105). Why not forget 
your worries and frustrations for two hours?
Forbes Gallery exhibits figurative human variation
By LYNNE M. SCHATZ
Special to The Tartan
The paintings, drawings, and prints of ar
tists Michael Kapeluck, Paula Larkin, and 
Karen Shulman will be on display this week 
at the Forbes Gallery. All three artists are 
figurative in their work and take as their 
central subject some variation of the human 
form. The show will open this evening at 
7:00.
Michael Kapeluck uses the entire left wall 
of the gallery for a multi-media installation 
piece. Kapeluck uses blueprints of repeated 
images in his work, frequently taking his im
ages from existing photographs and found 
figures.
One of the most prominant images in 
Kapelucks blueprints is that of a nude, 
vulnerable male. The way that the man is 
standing suggests that he is a piece of meat 
ready for inspection, says Kapeluck.
Im asking questions about our society, 
says Kapeluck. Im examining how our 
system treats our society, and how that socie
ty reacts. Kapeluck does not necessarily 
answer the question behind his work, but the 
question behind his work, but the question 
remains the force behind the image.
For Kapeluck, the repeated image is the 
center of his question. Im asking if we are 
no more than a number in the system, says 
Kapeluck.
Paula Larkins paintings are an attempt
to convey emotion through color and 
shape. Larkin likes to evoke an emotional 
situation, frequently using family, friends, 
and herself as subject matter.
Larkin sees the family as valid, yet often 
overlooked, subject matter for an artist. I 
keep coming back to the theme of my fami
ly, especially my mother, says Larkin. In a 
portrait of her mother, Larkin casts a weird 
light on a figure of a woman being engulf
ed by a sofa. There is an overall tension to 
the painting because of the play between 
light and subdued color.
Color is also examined in the painting
which Larkin refers to as Th Snapshot on 
the Beach. The painting is a recreation of 
a black and white photograph taken in 1957. 
Larkin uses color freely in the painting to 
enlighten her subject matter. I got to do 
what I wanted because the original was 
black and white, says Larkin. I could be 
absurd with color, obnoxious, or expres
sionist.
Karen Shulman displays woodcuts and the 
prints she has made from these woodcuts as 
well as some ceramic pieces. Shulman, who 
is a member of the Poltava Ukranian Folk 
Ensemble, makes woodcuts of ethnic women
in authentic Slovak costume. These wood
cuts are often inspired by the women 
Shulman sees in conjunction with Poltava.
Shulman sees her work as, quite simply, 
a portrait of the ethnic woman in her or
nate costume.
I relate my interest in ethnicity to my car
ving and to the artwork itself, says Shulman.
Michael Kapeluck, Paula Larkin, and 
Karen Shulman are exhibiting at the Forbes 
Gallery until November 18. Gallery hours 
are WednesdayFriday, 11:00 a.m. to 6:00 
p.m., and Saturday and Sunday, Noon to 
5:00 p.m.
Wide grooves give high quality
Twelve inch records gain new popularity
By AL DATRI
Trtan Staffwriter
The 12 single has been around for years 
but has gained wide popularity only recendy. 
Several years ago, they became popular with 
dance djs because they offered ten minute 
long remixed versions of popular dance 
songs. The djs liked this since they could 
take a longer break between changing disks. 
In the past two or three years, their populari
ty has spread to other forms of music, such 
as pop and heavy metal, though I have yet 
to see country music offer one.
A 12 single is, as the name implies, a normal 12 vinyl disk containing only two or 
three songs. Almost without fail, side A will 
be a current popular song by the artist. The 
B side, however, varies greatly in nature. 
Some record companies will put the iden
tical versions of the same song on both sides.
These sort of disks are, however, usually 
limited to promotional disks intended main
ly for radio stations. Although these promo
tional disks are not legally allowed to be 
resold, many can be found in some stores. 
An example of this sort of 12 single is the 
recent Mystery by Dio.
A more common practice is to put one to
three live cuts of other songs on the B side. 
These songs often do not appear elsewhere 
except as studio versions. Examples of this 
type are the several Twisted Sister disks, each 
of which has two or three live tracks. Occa
sionally one will find a 12 single with a live 
or studio song that the artist has never 
released before.
An example of the former is the 12 pic
ture disk single by Ozzy Osbourne, which has 
a song called You Said It All that has not 
seen studio release in the country. The lat
ter is represented by an import Robert Plant 
continuad on paga 24

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanNovember 13, 1984
Student Senate 
Election Guide
Elections will be held today (9:00 AM  9:00 PM) in and tomorrow (9:00 AM  6:00 
PM) in Grey Matter. Balloting is run by Alpha Phi Omega, and all more than half-time 
students paying an activities fee are eligible to vote. Bring your student I.D.
Candidates were asked the following question:
Specifically and in detail, what will you do as a Student Senator 
to help the campus community?
CFA-4 SEATS
Christine Hynes Suzanne Utaski
Submitted nothing Submitted nothing
CIT-5 SEATSLarry Bach
I found it a rewarding experience to serve 
as Senator this semester and would like to 
represent you for another year. Having serv
ed on the Rules Committee, Ive worked for 
the recognition of more clubs, hoping to 
bring the whole campus closer together. As 
a representative, I will be willing to listen to 
any suggestions and will encourage you to 
come to me with ideas. A vote for me is really 
a vote for you  the students.
Tim Cleary
My name is Tim Cleary, and I am runn
ing for Camegie-Mellon University Senate. 
My experience includes involvement in the 
Student Activities Committee and the Socie
ty of Mechanical Engineers. As a junior 
engineer I feel that I am sensitive to the pro
blems of other engineers and if elected to the 
Student Senate, I could be a positive force 
for correcting these problems.
Karen DeMelio
I am an enthusiastic freshman who is very 
interested in the Student Senate and its 
workings. I was involved in student govern
ment during my high school years so I would 
catch on quickly to the workings of the Stu
dent Senate. I am not tied up in many extra
curricular activities, so I have the time and 
energy to put into Senate. Vote for me to 
represent CIT in the Student Senatel
Mark Bodnar
I plan to open more and better channels 
of interactive communication within CIT. 
There are people in the administration, in 
both CIT and Warner Hall, who are mak
ing decisions which affect your academic life 
here at CMU. I will keep the students in
formed of these decisions by fully utilizing 
campus resources such as WRCT and the 
Tartan. I will work to give a more powerful 
say to you, the students of CIT.
Gregory Christy 
If elected to the Student Senate, I would 
do my best to see that the interests of my 
constituency are voiced. I will be most will
ing to listen to any ideas which you feel a 
need to bring to the attention of Student 
Senate. I also feel there is a need for more 
involvement by you, the students in CIT in 
making your views and opinions known to 
the Senate. The Senate cannot do its job if 
you dont give input or take an interest in 
the items brought before it.
Did not pose
Greg Eoyand
Hello, world. Im Greg Eoyand, and Im 
a double E; but I dont study too hard, so 
maybe I wont be an EE much longer, but 
Id like to be a Student Senator anyway. Stu
dent government here is hindered by very lit
tle communication. Who does what? Why? 
and how well? how often? How much do you 
know about Student Senate? If you want to 
know, vote for Greg Eoyand. Its late in the 
semester; do you know who your senators 
are?
Colleen Harrison
I have been a member of CIT for over a 
year, and I know that it is possible to balance 
good academic standing and an active social 
life. As a senator I intend to encourage new 
and expanding clubs by providing an open 
tie between the Senate and club represen
tatives. I am also interested in improving the 
quality of existing clubs. Are funds being 
allocated where they are needed most? In
vestigation in these areas could make the 
Senate more efficient.
Cherie Jagerski
The students on this campus have very 
definite ideas about the campus communi
ty. Anyone can complain to his friends, but 
in reality nothing will be accomplished. The 
Student Senate is a way for decisive people 
to implement change. Being a person of ac
tion, if elected, I would bridge the gap bet
ween those judging students and the ad
ministration who could so something about 
it.
Michael King
I want to be a student senator because I 
want to get involved in student politics at 
CMU. I also want to contribute to CIT 
anyway possible. There are many things that 
need to be changed, such as tuition (that will 
increase $1000 in 85-86 year) and activities 
exclusively for CIT students. CIT is an 
outstanding engineering school, and I would 
spend eight days a week to make it the best.
H&SS-2 SEATS
Robert Arnold 
The primary responsibility of the Student 
Senate is to distribute activity money among 
student organizations. Dorm residents, 
Greeks, and off-campus dwellers need places 
on campus to relax. Our pooled money 
should be funnelled into clubs and events 
which would bring people together. Plans 
are being drawn up now, by Student Senate, 
for a lounge in Skibo. This night club is 
a perfect example of how we should spend
our money.
Diana Bianco
My name is Diana Bianco. I am an H&SS 
sophomore, and I am very interested in 
becoming part of the CMU Student Senate. 
I see Senate realistically and realize there are 
many restrictions on its power. Therefore, I 
do not want to make any empty promises 
that would be impossible to keep. However, 
the promise I will make is that if I am elected 
to Senate, I will do everything in my power 
to make it a more integral part of the CMU 
campus community.

---------------------------------------------------

November 13, 1984The TartanPage 13
Shep Bostin 
I seek re-election to Student Senate 
because! would like to continue working on 
the projects that I began during this last 
term. [As a member of SDC, I work hard 
to improve the quality of our residential life]. 
On the Homecoming committee of Senate, 
I worked hard to provide entertaining ac
tivities for us and our alumni.
Seth Kaplan
Running for re-election is no easy chore. 
I, however, feel its worth it because I have 
enjoyed my stay on Student Senate. As a 
member of both the senate and the Student 
Dorm Council, I feel that I have done my 
share to improve this campus. Specifically, 
I spent many hours behind the scenes run
ning this election and Ive participated in ex
amining the many campus organizations a 
member of the Rules Committee of the 
Senate.
Eric S. Gold
Fellow students. If tuition continues to in
crease at its present rate, this years freshman 
class will be paying over $20,000 by the time 
of their graduation in 1988. If elected, I will 
work actively to show Cyert and his gang 
that we have no intention of being USED for 
the remainder of our time here! On the 
lighter side, if elected, I will provide 
toothpicks for all freshmen in John Hayes 
Cognitive Processes to help them keep their 
eyes open during class.
Eric Rocher
I am a sophomore in Biology.
As your Senator for the past year I have 
tackled many Senate problems. Most.recent
ly I have been a member of an independeritSenate investigation which recommended 
that President Cyert not sit on the Appeals 
Board for ZBT and that students on the Unviersity Disciplinary Committee be approv
ed by Student Senate.
Cindy Taylor 
A student senator must be motivated, in
terested, willing to listen to the views of the 
students and eager to take action on those 
views. As chairman of the Academic Affairs 
committee, I, Cindy Taylor, have been recep
tive to the concerns of the campus communi
ty and have worked towards modifications 
of academic policy such as student input on 
tenure. The Elementary Japanese course, 
new to CMU this year, is a result of my will
ingness to work for the wants of students.
Ed Klehr 
Ive always been the type of person to go 
out and do things, to get something done. 
If you dont like something, dont be part of 
the silent majority, go out and do something 
about it. As a senator I would strive hard 
to improve Student Activities here at CMU. 
There needs to be more for all students. If 
elected I would be a doer and not a 
doormat.
John S. Yocca
I wish to help the students of CMU by 
representing MCS in the Student Senate. To
day, as CMU crosses the threshold from a 
semi-local university to a nationally 
recognized institution, its needs and pro
blems grow proportionally. Our Student 
Senate needs young, good, and qualified in
dividuals to keep it an effective governing 
body. I am confident that I have all of the 
above qualities. Consider me, John S. Yoc
ca, when voting for MCS Student Senate.
Diana Melamid 
A Student Senator has a responsibility to 
make sure that the needs and interests of the 
campus community are met. I would like 
to see the implementation of programs to 
serve the community as whole, not just 
various factions. At the present time useful 
programs like CPR/First Aid, suicide 
prevention, and alcohol awareness are spon
sored by various organizations (EMS, Hous
ing Office, Inter-Fraternity Council), but 
their scope is fairly limited.
GSIA-1 SEATBill Simmons
You may think this is a good way to fill 
up my resume, well youre right. But, this 
is truly not the case with me. Having been 
involved in many years of student govern
ment, Ive enjoyed representing people and 
getting involved. I hope to bring strong 
school spirit and closer family ties with the 
senate and student body. This is where the 
success lies. Dont be lazy on election day. 
Get out and vote for me.
Nobody running
SUPA-1 SEAT
Jean Novae
Id like to get the graduate students at the 
School of Urban and Public Affairs involv
ed in campus activities. I feel that the best 
way to do this is through representation in 
the Student Senate.Daniela Cramer 
As a sophomore in MCS, I feel I would 
have much to offer the student body as a 
senator. I am willing to devote time and 
energy to not only listen to problems and 
ideas, but also implement these ideas, and 
solve the problems. I would like to push for 
the new student lounge in Skibo, and I am 
also interested in bringing members of the 
different colleges together. So, if youre look
ing for a responsible student to represent 
MCS, vote for me, Daniela Cramer.
The Greek View
By Jim Denburg
In the past Student Senate has been 
marked as an organization which hat been 
unable to accomplish anything substantial. 
This is not true. Senate is actually very 
powerful and has shown this year to be very/
I beneficial to students.
For example, recently Senate 
; passed a motion to investigate 
||the decision making process that 
led to the expulsion of Zeta Beta Tau. Senate 
felt since the issue was of great importance 
to this compus, it should be known if the 
process by which the administration made 
this decision was just*.
The decision by Senate to step on an issue 
of such campus-wide significance in addi
tion shows how important it can be in 
representing the views of the Greeks. With 
all the negative publicity the Greek com
munity has received lately, it has become 
very beneficial to have an organization like 
Senate supporting our interests. We urge all 
Greeks and non-Greeks to vote in the Senate 
elections, and to stand up for the right to 
fair representation on this campus.
The Greek View is a weekly column in 
The Tartan written in cooperation with InterFratemity Council.
Ginny I ekes 
For three years I have been an active part 
of CMU. Although campus life has been 
progressing, there will always be room for 
more improvements, i.e. with StudentFaculty/Administration relations and cam
pus facilities.
As your representative I feel I can further 
help student life. Because of my high school 
student government experience, involvement 
in various organizations, and sense of 
responsibility, I believe I am qualified. 
Please consider me when you votel

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanNovember 13, 1984
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY18-701Eletrmg Fid TheoryTue Dec 115:30-8:30SH22418-705Mgntsm Mag MemoriesTue Dec 188:30-11:30DH1211
Final Examination Policy and Schedule18-721Semicndct Dev App IThu Dec 135:30-8:30SH42218-771Modern Control EngrTue Dec 111:00-4:00SH125
Office of the Registrar*
Fall 1984-85ENGINEERINGAND PUBLIC POLICY
19-319Law and the EngineerThu Dec 131:00-4:00PH22SC,19-422Risk Perc Assess MgtTue Dec 181:00-4:00PH22SB
The Faculty Senate adopted the following policies on the administration of 
final examinations for the undergraduate courses:MATHEMATICS
1. all final exams shall be given in the final exam period;
2. the reading day and weekend preceding exams shall never be used for 
exam purposes of any kind;
3. faculty shall not exert or submit to pressures to move an exam so that 
people can leave earlier;
4. no student shall be required to take more than two exams on a given 
finals day; the registrar shall assist the student in resolving 
conflicts;
E. no critiques or juries shall be scheduled on the last day of classes;
6. papers shall be made due no later than on the last day of classes;
7. take-home final exams shall be given for any 24 hour period of the 
student's choosing during the final exam period.
Requests for exceptions to this policy should be made to Richard Rainsberger, 
Registrar.
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES
03-121Modern BiologyMonDec178:30-11:30PH100, 1
DH1212
03-130Biology of OrganismsFriDec148:30-11:30DH1212
03-230GeneticsTueDec111:00-4:00DH1212
03-231Biochemistry ITueDec188:30-11:30DHA317
03-243Exp Tech Gen Mol BioTueDec188:30-11:30BH231
03-380VirologyWedDec121:00-4:00DH1212
03-438Physd BiochemistryWedDec121:00-4:00MI355
03-442Molec Bio EukaryotesTueDec118:30-11:30PH20
03-609Fermentation TchnlgyWedDec125:30-8:30DH2105
CHEMICALENGINEERING*
06-151ThermodynamicsWedDec128:30-11:30HHB103
06-201Heat & Mass TransferTueDec118:30-11:30PH19A, I
06-204Process ThermodynmcsThuDec138:30-11:30WEH 7500
06-206cnera Engr Lab IIFriDec141:00-4:00DH1112
06-301Appi Reactn KineticsTueDec188:30-11:30MM14
06-302Process Engr & SynthFriDec148:30-11:30WEH 7500
06-305Proc Dynam & CntrlMonDec175:30-8:30HHB103
06-705Appi Ch E ThermodynThuDec135:30-8:30DH2105
06-717Fermentation TchnlgyWedDec125:30-8:30DH2105
21-105Pre-CalculusThuDec135:30-8:30WEH 542721-111Calculus ITueDec188:30-11:30DB 2210, HH B103 
HH B13121-112Calculus IIThuDec135:30-8:30SH 125. SH 20621-121calculus IMonDec171:00-4:00DH 2210, DH 2315 
WEH 750021-122Calculus IIThuDec131:00-4:00DH 2210, DH 231521-127Discr Math Cmptr SciFriDec145:30-8:30DH 221021-257Optmztn Soc Sci ITueDec188:30-11:30DH 2315, DH 1212 
DH 111221-258Optmztn Soc Sci IITueDec188:30-11:30PH 125C21-259Calculus in Three DmThuDec135:30-8:30HH B103, HH B13121-260Mthds Appl Nath IIThuDec131:00-4:00HH B103, HH B13121-261Elements of AnalysisTueDec111:00-4:00DH 231521-263Mthds Appl Math I 
(formerly 21-259 A-L)
ThuDec135:30-8:30DH 2210, DH 2315 
WEH 750021-293Operations Rsch IIThuDec138:30-11:30DH 121221-301CombinatoricsWedDec125:30-8:30MM 14, MM 103
DH 111221-341Linear AlgebraTueDec188:30-11:30PH 100, PH 19A, 
PH 2021-369Numerical MethodsMonDec175:30-8:30PH 10021-371Func Cmplx variableMonDec175:30-8:30WEH 642321-441Number TheoryTueDec111:00-4:00WEH 642321-455Advanced CalculusNonDec175:30-8:30WEH 520521-473Algebraic StructuresTueDec181:00-4:00WEH 540321-476Ord Diff EquationsThuDec138:30-11:30WEH 520521-483OptimizationWedDec121:00-4:00WEH 750021-484Applied Graph TheoryThuDec131:00-4:00WEH 542721-551Mathematcl Logic Thu Dec 13
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
5:30-8:30PH 225C, BH 131
24-102Statics Dfrm SolidsTueDec188:30-11:30PH 225C24-112Fluid MechanicsThuDec135:30-7:30SH 224
24-121Thermodynamics ITueDec188:30-11:30WEH 750024-141Statics and DynamicsWedDec125:30-8:30HH B103, HH B13124-202Mech Dfrmbl SolidsMonDec178:30-11:30HH B103, HH B13124-227Intml Comb EnginesMonDec175:30-8:30SH 21224-233Heat TransferWedDec121:00-4:00SH 220, SH 224
24-245Dynamics Physcl SystTueDec118:30-11:30HH B103. HH B13124-249Dynamics & VibratnsTueDec188:30-11:30SH 125
CHEHISTRI
09-103Atoms Mol Chem ChngThuDec131:00-4:00
09-105Dynamics & EquilibwedDec128:30-11:30
09-106Bonding Struct PrincFriDec145:30-8:30
09-117Organic Chemistry ITueDec188:30-11:30
09-218Organic Chemistry IIWedDec125:30-8:30
09-243Physcl Chemistry IIThuDec135:30-8:30
09-502Orgnc Chem PolymersWedDec125:30-8:30
09-711Physcl Organic ChenWedDec128:30-11:30
09-741Orgnc Chem PolymersWedDec125:30-8:30
CIVILENGINEERING
12-110Intro Engr EconomicsMonDec171:00-4:00
12-203Systems Engr ITueDec115:30-8:30
12-207StaticsWedDec128:30-11:30
12-320Structural Mech IThuDec131:00-4:00
12-330Fluid Mechanics IWedDec125:30-8:30
12-623Structural DesignMonDec178:30-11:30
12-627Foundation EngrThuDec135:30-8:30
12-636Envr Engr Air PollutTueDec118:30-10:30
12-705Project ManagementMonDec175:30-8:30
12-721Gr wtr Hydrolgy ChemThuDec135:30-8:30
12-782Theortcl Soil MechTueDec115:30-3:30
COMPUTER SCIENCE
15-118Intro to Computing C
(LISP) Sec.S TueDec181:00-4:00
15-200Surv Prgrmng Mth ApplThuDec138:30-11:30
15-211Fund Str Prograng IA MonDec171:00-4:00
B HonDec171:00-4:00
15-212Fund Str Progrmng IIFriDec148:30-11:30
15-312Cmprtv Prgrmng LangFriDec141:00-4:00
15-381Artfcl Int Rp Pr SlvMonDec178:30-10:00
15-412Operating SystemsTueDec118:30-11:30
15-451Appl Algorthm DesignWedDec125:30-8:30
ELECTRICAL AND COMPUTER :ENGINEERING
18-101Linear Circuit AnalWedDec125:30-8:30
18-201 Field Analysis Engr Thu Dec 13 5:30-8:30
18-221 Electrnc Circuits II Fri Dec 14 5:30-8:30
18-232 Appl Sol St Physics Bon Dec 17 5:30-8:30
18-247 Intro Computer Arch Tue Dec 11 1:00-4:00
18-301 Fundmntls of Control Wed Dec 12 5:30-8:30
18-331 Semicndct Dev App I Thu Dec 13 5:30-8:30
ig-343 Intro Elec Machines Thu Dec 13 5:30-8:30
18-441 Logic & Proc Or Des Thu Dec 13 1:00-4:00
DH 1212
DH 2105
DH 1212. DH 1112 
DH 2210, DH 2315 
DH 1212, DH 1112 
SH 125 
WEH 7500 
MM 103 
PH 225C 
DH 1112.
DH A317 
DH 1211.
DH 1212
PH 123B 
DH 1112 
PH 225C 
PH 19A 
PH 125C 
PH 123B, 
PH 123B 
PH 123B 
PH 21 
PH 107B 
SH 212
METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING AND MATERIALS SCIENCE
PH 125C
PH 19C 
DH 2210
DH 1212, DH 1112 
PH 100 
HH B131 
DH 2210 
WEH 7500 
DH 1112 
SH 422
WEH 5403, WEH 5427
PH 100. DH 1212 
BH 231
PH 100, Adamson 
PH 100 
HH B131
WEH 7500, WEH 5403 
SH 125 
SH 422 
WEH 6423 
SH 125
27-131Materials ScienceAWedDec121:00-4:00WEH 5427BWedDec121:00-4:00WEH 5403CWedDec121:00-4:00WEH 520527-211Thermodynamics IMonDec178:30-11:30WEH 542727-313Thermodynamics IIThuDec135:30-8:30DH A31727-331Physcl Metallurgy ITueDec118:30-11:30DH A31727-441Dfrmatn of Matls IMonDec178:30-11:30DH A31727-529Mdrn Steelmkng ProcTueDec181:00-4:00DH 121127-564Perform of Engr MtlsThuDec138:30-11:30WEH 642327-760Ph Ch Met Re Met OprWedDec121:00-4:00WEH 842727-782Phase Tms Solids IWedDec128:30-11:30DE A317
33-115
33-121
42-500
42-735
PHYSICS
Introductory Physics 
Physics I Mechanics
Mon Dec 17 
Tue Dec 11
5:30-8:30
8:30-11:30
WEH 7500 
DH 2210, PH 100 
DH 1112. DH 1212 
WEH 7500, SH 125 
PH 225C, Adamson33-122Physics II Ht Wv OptTueDec118:30-11:30I 231533-123Physics III Elec MagHonDec175:30-8:30DH 2210, DH
DH 1212. DH33-127Phys III Hnrs El HagMonDec175:30-8:30SH 125
33-130Physcl Mechanics IFriDec141:00-4:00DH 1212
33-435Modern Physics IIWedDec125:30-8:30WEH 731633-437Intrmd Elec & Mag IThuDec135:30-8:30WEH 5403
33-453Intermediate OpticsMonDec171:00-4:00WEH 540333-710Princ InstrumentatnWedDec121:00-4:00WEH 7316
33-755Quantum Mechanics ITueDec118:30-11:30SH 212
33-757Classical MechanicsMonDec171:00-4:00WEH 6423
33-759Intro Theo Phys IThuDec131:00-4:00WEH 5403
33-765Statistical MechanicsTueDec188:30-11:30WEH 6423
STATISTICS
36-101Stat Cncpts Cap ApplTueDec118:30-11:30WEH 5427
36-209Prb App Sta Mg 3S IWedDec125:30-8:30DH 2210, DH
WEH 7500
36-211Prb App St Ph S&E IWedDec121:00-3:00HH B10336-217Prob Random ProcessWedDec128:30-11:30MM 103
36-225Intro Prob & Stat IThuDec135:30-7:30MM 103, HH
36-309Ex Des Behav Soc SciWedDec125:30-8:30BH 131
36-325Prob 6 Math Stat IWedDec128:30-11:30BH 231
36-405Simu Monte Carlo NthWedDec125:30-8:30PH 22
BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING
Physiology
Physiology
Mon Dec 17 8:30-11i
Mon Dec 17 8:30-11:
WEH 5403 
WEH 5403

---------------------------------------------------

November 13, 1984The TartanPage 15
48-125 Structures
?8-162 Intro Archtctrl Hist
48-164 Intro Archtctrl Hist
48-360 Europ Arch 1780-1850
48-362 Garden in Landscape
48-382 Words 6 Surroundings
48-386 Amer Neighborhoods
48-511 Theory I Intro
ARCHITECTURE
Mon Dec 17 
Tue Oec 18 
Mon Dec 17 
Thu Dec 13 
Fri Dec 14 
Tue Dec 18 
Mon Dec 17 
Wed Dec 12
DESIGN
5:30-8:30
8:30-10:30
1:00-3:00
8:30-10:30
8:30-10:30
1:00-4:00
1:00-4:00
1:00-3:00
51-101 Intro to Design I
51-203 Intro to Design III
51-300 Design Princ Anal
51-354 Indus Des Studio II
51-400 Des Princ Prof Prac
54-163 Welding
57-109 Elementary Theory
57-151 Harmony I
57-152 Harmony II
57-153 Harmony III
57-161 Eurythmics I
57-163 Eurythmics III
57-173 History of Music I
57-175 Solfege Mus Thea I
57-177 Solfege Mus Thea III
57-181 Intro to Solfege
57-183 Solfege II
57-204 History of Music III
57-255 16th Cen Counterpnt 
57-257 Orchestration I
57-332 Intro to Conducting 
57-344 String Methods
57-347 Elctrn & Cmpt Mus I
57-376 Secondary Methods
57-407 Form and Analysis I
57-459 Kybd Hrm & Sc Rdg I
57-606 Voice Class
57-727 Vocal Pedagogy
57-750 Piano Improvisatn I
Appt. sched. during Dec. 5,6,7 
Appt. sched. during Dec 
Tue Dec 11 1:00-4:00
Wed Dec 12 1:00-4:00
Tue Dec 18 8:30-11:30
DRAMA
MUSIC
Mon Dec 17 
Mon Dec 17 
Thu Dec 13 
Tue Dec 18 
Thu Dec 13 
Mon Dec 17 
Wed Dec 12 
Mon Dec 17 
Mon Dec 17 
Wed Dec 12 
Mon Dec 17 
Tue Dec 11 
Thu Dec 13 
Wed Dec 12 
Wed Dec 12 
Mon Dec 17 
Tue Dec 18 
Tue Dec 18 
Mon Dec 17 
Thu Dec 13 
Tue Dec 11 
Thu Dec 13 
Tue Dec 11
3:00-4:00
1:00-3:00
10:30-12:30
8:30-10:30
1:00-4:00
8:30-11:30
8:30-10:30
3:00-5:00
8:30-10:30
1:00-3:00
1:00-3:00
8:30-10:30
5:30-7:30
5:30-7:30
9:30-10:30
11:30-12:30
1:00-3:00
9:30-10:30
5:30-7:30
1:00-3:00
9:30-10:30
8*30-10:30
5:30-6:30
76-26xSurv of Frm AutoblogThuDec135:30-8:30BH255B76-320Health and IllnessThuDec135:30-8:30PH125D
MM 10376-321Tchnlgy 6 LiteratureTueDec111:00-4:00PH226B76-331European NovelistsTueDec181:00-4:00AdamsonPH 19C76-35119th-Cent LiteratureThuDec138:30-11:30BH245TBA76-371Rhetor Soc InteractnTueDec115:30-8:30BH245CFA 21176-372Journalism IMonDec178:30-11:30BH245CFA 20676-390Intro to Ling AnalWedDec128:30-11:30BH245BH 13176-391SociolinguisticsTueDec118:30-11:30BH255ADH 430776-419Comput  Rhtrcl StudWedDec125:30-8:30BH235ACFA 20676-425Plan  Test DocumntsMonDec178:30-11:30BH255A76-442MiltonWedDec121:00-4:00BH255B76-443WoolfTueDec188:30-11:30BH255B76-481Hstry of Rhetoric IThuDec138:30-11:30BH235A5,6,7 BH 36876-720Health and IllnessThuDec135:30-8:30PH12 5D11,12,13 BH 36876-721Tchnlgy & LiteratureTueDec111:00-4:00PH226BBH 36976-731European NovelistsTueDec181:00-4:00AdamsonPH 2076-75119th-Cent LiteratureThuDec138:30-11:30BH24SAdamson76-771Rhet Soc InteractnTueDec115:30-8:30BH24576-772Journalism IMonDec178:30-11:30BH24576-790Intro Linguist AnalWedDec128:30-11:30BH245
CFA 1276-791SociolinguisticsTueDec118:30-11:30BH255A76-819Comput & Rhtrcl StudWedDec125:30-8:30BH235A
76-825Planning 6 TestingMonDec178:30-11:30BH255A76-827Process of ResearchTueDec188:30-11:30BH235A
76-842MiltonWedDec121:00-4:00BH255BCFA 16076-843WoolfTueDec188:30-11:30BH255BCFA 16076-881Hstry of Rhetoric IThuDec138:30-11:30BH235ACFA 160 
CFA 160 
MM 119 
MM 119 
CFA 160 
MM 127 
MM 127 
MM 127 
MM 127 
CFA 160 
CFA 157 
CFA 157 
CFA 157 
MM 119 
CFA 107 
CFA 107 
TBA
CFA 157 
CFA 157 
CFA 160 
MM 119
HISTORY AND PHILOSOPHY
79-102
79-103
79-110
79-120
79-215
79-222
79-223
79-226
79-228
79-250
79-300
79-310
79-331
79-343
79-440
Philosophy Courses
Shaping Wstm Civ A WedDec121:00-3:00PH125B
B WedDec121:00-3:00PH126B
Amer. Civilization A MonDec178:30-10:30PH12 5B
B MonDec178:30-10:30SH206
Origins of Hdm wrldTueDec115:30-7:30PH100, DH 2210
Dev of Amer Society .MonDec178:30-10:30DH2210, DH 2315
Dynam Europe SocietyTueDec181:00-3:00WEH 5427
Tpc Business HistoryTueDec111:00-3:00BH255A
Mdrn Latin AmericaTueDec115:30-7:30PH22
Tchnlgy in Wstm CivTueDec115:30-7:30PH126B
Origins of ChristianFriDec145:30-7:30BH231
Intro Appl HistoryMonDec171:00-3:00BH229B
History WorkshopWedDec121:00-3:00BH254A
American PresidencyMonDec171:00-3:00PH225C
Modern ChinaWedDec128:30-10:30PH126C
History of IrelandThuDec135:30-7:30BH235A
Sem in Urban SocietyThuDec131:00-3:00MM112
INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT80-100Philos Mthds Soc ValWedDee121:00-3:00PH100, DH 2210
80-150AestheticsThuDee131:00-3:00PH10070-101Elem Industri AdminATueDec115:30-7:30PH 225C80-235Social & Pol PhilosWedDee128:30-10:30BH255ABTueDec115:30-7:30PH 2080-315Fndtns Psych TheoryFriDee145:30-8:30BH13170-121Financial AccountingWedDecX8:30-11:30PH 100
XModemLanguage Program
70-150Fndmntls InsuranceFriDec141:00-4:00PH 125D82-101Elementary FrenchTueDee118:30-10:30BH235B
70-160Intro Gra Cmhctns IFriDec141:00-3:00BH 23182-103Programmed FrenchWedDee121:00-3:00DH1212
70-192Graph Commun Proc IFriDec145:30-8:30PH 126A82-121Elementary GermanFriDee145:30-7:30PH225C
70-311Orgnztnl Behavior ITueDec118:30-11:30MM 14, MM 10382-123Programmed GermanFriDee148:30-10:30PH19A
70-332Govemmnt s BusinessTueDec181:00-4:00MS Aud82-141Elementary SpanishFriDee145:30-7:30PH225B
70-335Business and LaborFriDec148:30-11:30BH 13182-143Programmed SpanishFriDee148:30-10:30BH231
70-363Law in Mdrn Amer SoCFriDec148:30-11:30PH 225C82-161Elementary ItalianTueDee115:30-7:30PH225B
70-381Marketing I82-171Elementary JapaneseWedDee128:30-10:30HHB131
AFriDec145:30-8:30WEH 542782-201Int French Cult SocAThuDee131:00-3:00BH245
CFriDec145:30-7:30WEH 5403BThuDee131:00-3:00BH235B
70-422Cost AccountingFriDec141:00-4:00DH 2315, DH 221082-221Int German Cult SocMonDee171:00-3:00PH226B
70-440Strategic ManagementMonDec178:30-10:30IA 22582-241Int Spanish Cult SocFriDee148:30-10:30PH226B
70-471Production IITueDec188:30-10:30PH 126C82-261Intermediate ItalianTueDee115:30-7:30PH225B
70-491Finance IIWedDec125:30-8:30PH 2182-281Mstrpc Continent LitMonDee171:00-3:00BH245
70-631Graph Commun MatlsFriDec148:30-11:30DH 212282-301French Conver & CompTueDee118:30-10:30BH229B
70-633Graph Cmnctns Sem IFriDec148:30-11:30PH 123B82-321German Cnvrsatn CompWedDee128:30-10:30PH226C82-341Spanish Cnvrsatn CmpMonDee175:30-7:30PH125B
H&SS INTERDISCIPLINARY PROGRAM82-415Studies French LitThuDee138:30-10:30PH226B82-430German Lit of 20th CTueDee111:00-3:00PH226C
66-206W Civ Crs WW AftrmthThuDec135:30-8:30BH 23182-455St Span Latin Am LitWedDee128:30-10:30PH126B82-502Spec Topics FrenchWedDee128:30-10:30PH126A
ECONOMICS82-542Spec Topics SpanishTueDee118:30-10:30BH235A
73-100Princ of Economics A-HThuDec138:30-11:30DH 2315*PSYCHOLOGY
73-250Intermed MlcroeconCDTueDec115:30-8:30DH 2315
ETueDec115:30-8:30WEH 750085-100Cog Proc Theo & PracTueDee181:00-3:00DH2210, OH 2315
73-300Intermed MacroeconAMonDec171:00-3:30HH 8103WEH 7500
BMonDec171:00-4:00HH B13185-101General PsychologyTueDee181:00-2:00PH100
73-342Mkt Org Bus Behav IThuDec131:00-4:00PH 226B85-211Cognitive PsychologyBFriDee141:00-4:00PH100
73-355Res Alloc Polit ProcTueDec111:00-4:00PH 126CCFriDee141:00-3:00BH235A
73-359Benefit-Cost AnalyTueDec111:00-4:00BH 13185-213Info Pr Psy Art IntiTueDee181:00-2:00HHB131
73-360EconometricsACThuDec138:30-11:30PH 10085-221Princ Child DvlpmntTueDee115:30-8:30BH231
BThuDec138:30-11:30BH 23185-241Intro Social PsychTueDee118:30-10:30BH231
73-365Industrl OrganizatnMonDec175:30-8:30PH 19A85-251PersonalityWedDee128:30-10:30BH131
73-420Monetary Theo PolicyFriDec141:00-3:30BH 13185-320Rsch Mth  Child DevTueDee181:00-3:00BH332T
73-476InflationMonDec171:00-4:00MM 31085-340Rsch Mthds Soc PsychThuDee135:30-8:30BH336B85-390Fndtns Psych TheoryFriDee145:30-8:30BH131
ENGLISH85-411Cog Proc & Prob SolvThuDee131:00-4:00BH23185-711Cog Proc fi Prob SolvThuDee131:00-4:00BH231
76-101Reading LiteratureAFriDec148:30-11:30BH 235A85-713Info Pr Psy Art IntiTueDee181:00-2:00HHB131
BFriDec148:30-11:30PH 125B
CFriDec148:30-11:30PH 125CSOCIALSCIENCES
DFriDec148:30-11:30PH 126C
EFriDec148:30-11:30PH 125D88-102Dec Pr Amer Pol InstTueDee111:00-4:00PH100, DH 2210
FFriDec148:30-11:30PH 126A88-200Information Syst IFriDee148:30-11:30DH2315
GFriDec148:30-11:30PH 126B88-220Policy Analysis IWedDee121:00-4:00DH2315
HFriDec148:30-11:30PH 226C88-240Empircl Rsch Meth IMonDee128:30-11:30PH20
76-220Rites of PassageMonDec175:30-8:30BH 24588-260OrganizationsTueDee11i:00 :00HHB103, HH B131
76-221Parents and ChildrenMonDec178:30-11:30BH 229B88-280Social Sci Theory ITueDee115:30-8:30PH123B
76-230Bblcl Myth Bkgrd LitMonDec175:30-8:30BH 23188-326Law  Public PolicyTueDee111:00-4:00BH231
76-242Rdg 20th-Cen CultureMonDec171:00-4:00PH 2188-330Internatnl PoliticsMonDee175:30-8:30SH206
76-244ShakespeareABThuDec131:00-4:00Adamson88-341Dvlpmnt Mdrn Am EconThuDee131:00-4:00BH255A
CThuDec131:00-4:00PH 19C88-342Mkt Org Bus Behav IThuDee131:00-4:00PH226B
DThuDec131:00-4:00BH 13188-343Governmnt 6 BusinessTueDee188:30-11:30PH123B

---------------------------------------------------

AB D A NC E
presents
DANCE ELECTRIC\ - 
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 17 
9:00 pm in Skibo Ballroom Featuring live music by
B. E. TAYLOR
^ - -- j
with T. K. O.
-
Refreshments & Admission FREE
Funded by Student Activities Fee
SPRING SEMESTER 1985 REGISTRA TION
Registration for the Spring Semester 1985 has been scheduled for November 14 and 15, 1984. Freshmen 
in C/T and MCS will receive separate registration instructions from Dean Kail and will not register at this 
time. All other students, graduate and undergraduate, are expected to register at this time if they wish 
to be on the rolls for the Spring Semester. If you will not be returning for reasons other than graduation, 
please file a Withdrawal Form (clearly marked for Spring 1985) with your department. If you are studying 
off campus, or for some other reason cannot register on November 14 or 15, ask your advisor to process 
a registration for you or call the Registrar's Office for special instructions.
The Class Schedule Booklet will be available after November 5, inside the main entrance to Baker Hall 
and the Information Desk at Skibo. The Class Schedule contains a list ot the courses which will be offered 
next semester, the schedule and classrooms for each, the instructor's name, and complete instructions 
for registration. Please obtain one and carefully read and follow the instructions contained in it.
A single registration form called the Registration and Demographic Data Document (R3D) will be used 
for registration. It will provide an additional opportunity for you to review and update the demographic 
information on file for you and provide a form on which to list and have approved your program for the 
coming semester.
1 .Pick-up your R3D Form from your department and correct the demographic information. (Forms for H&SS 
freshmen and sophomores will be available in the H&SS Academic Advisory Center).
2. Meet with your advisor and have a schedule with alternatives approved. *
3.Between 9:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on November 14 or 15 go to each department teaching the courses in 
which you wish to register to obtain registration approval.
4.After obtaining all approvals, return the R3D Form to your department. You keep the last (yellow) copy. 
If you need further information or assistance, please call the Office of the Registrar, 578-2004.

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
SKYDIVING CLUBATHLETE OF THE WEEKIM REPORT
Jumping can be funRuns despite injuryLatest standings
Page 18Page 18Page 19
canvieforconferencetitle
By RICK DUVALL
Tartan Staffwriter
In a recent interview, Carnegie-Mellon 
mens basketball coach Larry Anderson 
stated, We can win, and win consistently. 
His statement sets the tone for CMUs team; 
however, the much-improved Tartans will 
face some stiff conference competition dur
ing the upcoming season.
Hiram is exp<kted to win again, 
explained Anderson, but they did lose their 
big man. He explained that the loss will 
not really by a major factor since their 
strongest suit was their guards. John Carroll 
should be tough because they are expecting 
to return with a lot of continuity. They also 
lost some players. They possess, in Ander
sons mind, one of the conferences best 
playersHerb Cunningham.
Washington and Jefferson is bringing 
back much of their lineup. Though they 
played around .500 in the conference last 
year they should be a factor. They beat some 
of the best teams but also got beat by some 
of the best.
Good outlook in coachs second year 
I think we have a pretty good chance. 
Weve got some new people in there and 
some of the old. Weve got experience and 
some height. We can also put some speed 
on the court. I think we have a pretty good 
chance to win the conference, stated Ander
son. The team has looked good in the three 
weeks of practice and their one scrimmage. 
We have executed well and that is what we 
look for in a scrimmage  not who wins. 
Although they have to work on a few areas 
of their game, the Tartans should be a ma
jor factor in the conference.
This will be Andersons second year at the 
helm of the Tartan basketball program. 
Before coming to CMU he held the position 
of assistant basketball coach at Point Park 
College for ten years. During his tenure with 
the school he also assumed the roles of head
By PAUL MASALSKY
Tartan Staffwriter
Successful athletic teams need a little bit 
of luck in order to avoid key injuries. Injuries 
will often occur at the most inopportune 
times, rendering a potentially powerful team 
helpless.
The Camegie-Mellon Cross Country team 
didnt have luck on its side at the NCAA 
Eastern Championships at Lebanon Valley 
College on Saturday. Due to an injury to 
Paul Camine, a consistent top five runner 
for CMU, the Tartans had to settle for a fifth 
place finish. The team was predicted to 
finish second in the meet.
Glassboro State College went on to take 
first place, followed by Frost burg State in se
cond. A third place finish for CMU would 
have assured the team a place in the Na
tional Championships.
We have five good runners in a very com
petitive team, said Coach Gary Meckley. 
When one of them is hurt, theres no one 
to back him up. Everyone knew we shouldve 
taken second place (in the meet), but it just 
didnt happen.
Camine, who had been on crutches for 
two weeks prior to the meet, made an ex
ceptional attempt to run. He stayed with the 
top runners for the first three miles but, feel
ing the pain of his injury, fell far back.
Paul [Camine] was one of our more con
sistent runners throughout the season, com
mented Meckley. His effort to run was 
outstanding. He did well for the first three 
miles, but theres a limit to how well you can 
perform coming off an injury.
Camegie-Mellon received fine perfor
mances from Bob Dusch, who finished in 
eleventh place overall with a time of 26:IS, 
and Dean Danowski, who captured thir
teenth with a time of 26:20 on the 8000 
meter course. Both of these runners earned 
a trip to the National Championships this 
Saturday.
Junior Mark Sulecki received All-East 
honors by finishing 24th in the meet. He was 
closely followed by freshman Tony Scarpelli 
and sophomore Tom Felmley, the Tartans 
sixth man.
Coach Meckley and his runners can look 
back on another successful season. The Tar
tans ended with a perfect 6-0 record, giving 
the team 62 straight victories, seven short of 
the NCAA record of 69 straight wins. 
Meckley can look forward to another suc
cessful season in 1985, with freshmen 
Danowski, Scarpelli and Camine returning. 
Sulecki will return to lead the team, and 
Felmley is expected to take a prominent posi
tion in the top five.
"We can w[n consistently,"
Anderson says team
Mens basketball coach Larry Anderson (right) puts his team through its practice paces.
of housing and assistant dean of students. 
He took the positions after he graduated 
from Point Park in 1973. A lot of times 
when you are at a small college you have to 
wear a couple of hats, he commented.
Strong returning starters
The team will be relying on their return
ing starters but they are not the only strong 
point. The returnees include senior forward 
Dwayne Waite (6-3, 195), junior forward 
George Debski (6-3,180), and junior center 
Richard Neff (6-6,200). Neff and Waite led 
Tartan rebounders last year with averages of 
5.9 and 5.7, respectively. Debski was up and
down last year but is currently shooting very 
well. These three are a part of our starting 
five but I dont like to think of only five 
starters. Anderson continued, You have to 
have eight or ten starters in reality. The guys 
that come off the bench have to as good or 
better than the players they replace. You 
dont want someone to come in and make 
mistakes.
Joining these veterans will be freshmen 
Hart Coleman, a 6-7 center from Pitts
burgh, Michael Stewart, a 5-10 guard also 
from Pittsburgh, Tom Franklin, a 5-9 guard 
from Brookfield, Ohio, and Dave Smith, a 
6-6 forward from Norwin, Pennsylvania. 
Another newcomer to the team is sophomore 
Robert Brown, a 5-11 guard from New York 
continued on page 27
CC team finishes 5th; 
two to run at nationals
photo b L.
Skydiver Evan McDonnell, one of many Skydiving Club members, approaches the 
ground target after a successful jump. See related article on page 18.__________

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanNovember 13, 1984
Skydiving club members enjoy jumps
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Staffwriter
The trials and tribulations of a skydiver 
are many. He pays large sums of money, is 
often forced to drive long distances, and risks 
his body. For what? The privilege to jump 
out of an airplane and aim his body at a tiny 
X on the ground, 3000 feet below. Despite 
the apparent insanity of it all, once a month 
the Carnegie-Mellon Skydiving Club 
manages to entice twenty or thirty people in
to taking the leap.
A typical outing finds the members, most 
still groggy from sleep (or lack of it), con
gregating outside of Skibo at the ungodly 
hour of 7:15 AM, waiting to pile into vans 
and cars and head out for a day of skydiv
ing. Upon arrival at the jump site in Elsen, 
Ohio, the group clambers out to inspect the 
airport. There isnt much to distinguish it 
from the surrounding fields except the lack 
of cornstalks. Its crude, but it serves the 
purpose.
Before the group is allowed to jump, they
receive training in the basics of parachuting, 
including what to do if your chute fails. A 
variety of maladies can befall a parachutists 
main chute, such as tangling (known as a 
Mae West), failing to open fully (a 
Streamer), and not opening at all (a Full 
Malfunction). If any of these dreaded oc
curences should happen, the jumpers 
reserve chute, which is activated either by 
hand or speed and barometric pressure (if 
the person is too busy panicking), will open.
The potential parachutists are also inAthlete of the weekCamine runs despite Ieg problems
By PAUL MASALSKY
Tartan Staffwriter
Paul Camine endured the pain of bursitis 
and tendonitis to run in the NCAA Eastern 
Cross Country Championship at Lebanon 
Valley College last Saturday. But this effort 
was not for individual recognition; this one 
was for-the team.
My season was over. I wanted to get us 
[the team] into the National Champion
ships, said Camine, a freshman majoring 
in Mechanical Engineering. The top five 
runners on our team had finished together 
for most of the year. As one of those five, I 
thought I had to run well for the team to 
do well.
Camine ended up finishing 114th, help
ing the Tartans to a fifth place finish. The 
team had to finish in the top three to qualify 
for the National Championship, but Coach 
Gary Meckley like to think of how the results
would have been with a healthy fifth runner.
Paul (Camine) has a lot of running abili
ty and promise, commented Meckley. I 
know if we can get him over this injury, he 
can be an All-East runner. His finish in the 
meet was not an indication of how well he 
can perform, but his willingness to do 
anything for the team certainly was.
Aided by crutches in the past week, Carnine has been plagued by the injury since 
mid-season. He ran to the best of his ability 
during the first half of the year, trying for 
first place in one meet. As the season wore 
on, the injury became more painful. But 
Camine ran on, continuing to perform 
admirably.
I began the season well, but I started to 
fade soon afterward, said Camine. I kept 
running because I had to achieve a personal 
goal I had set for myself. The guys on the 
team are great, and our coach is the best.
I enjoy running on the team very much.
Camine began.his running career at 
Moses Brown High School in Rhode Island 
when the cross-country coach noticed him 
running laps on the track for soccer. The 
coach asked him to join the team, and he 
ended up earning a varsity letter.
He later transferred to Hamden High 
School in Connecticut, where he was the 
number one runner on the team. A year 
later he returned to Moses Brown, where he 
won the Prep title for Southeastern New 
England. He also finished second in the 
championship meet for all of New England.
Camine is an outstanding prospect for 
future years at CMU. He exhibits a lot of 
interest, and is one of our better freshmen 
prospects, said Coach Meckley. He is 
definitely good enough to be in the top five 
for the rest of his time here, and is going to 
play a big role in the rebuilding of the team.
TALK TO DRAPER
Friday, November 30, 1984 
Carnegie-Mellon
MS/PhD Candidates  join some of the nation's most 
respfcted and inventive people at developing in
novative and fascinating new technologies. As a 
leading hands-on "working laboratory" in Technology 
Square, we offer a unique environment for your career 
to grow and develop. Positions are currently 
available for candidates In Electrical Engineering, 
Mechanical Engineering, Computer Science, and 
Aeronautics in the following areas:
 Control Systems Design
 Software Development/ 
Evaluation
 Analog/Digital Design 
Engineering
 Spacecraft Dynamics
 Underwater 
Exploration Systems
 Structural Engineering
 Manufacturing 
Systems
 Robotics/Automation
 Guidance and 
Navigation Analysis
 Electronic System 
Engineering
 Optics
 Instrumentation 
System Development
We employ over 1000 top quality people  we need 70 
more. If you're looking for a state-of-the-art professional 
challenge  we want to talk to you.
uDLtFpaoutDaI yFtmc p..ouDyxuDo.FVu.W fgC.lmI.
Details available at your Placement Office. We are 
an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer, 
M/F. U.S. Citizenship required.
V^v The Chartes Stark 3/Draper Laboratory Inc.
L
structed in two other crucial areas: jump
ing out of the plane and hitting the ground. 
The jump isnt really a jump per se; its more 
of a controlled fall. The skydiver leans out 
of the plane backwards and throws his hands 
back to propel himself out of the plane. The 
landing, which is where most skydiving in
juries occur, must also be carefully controll
ed. The parachutist should roll as he lands, 
in order to spread the impact over his en
tire body. Although it may seem hard to 
practice these skills except during the actual 
jump, the instructors at Elsen have devised 
a common-sense solution. They have the 
students fall or jump off a picnic table onto 
a cushion in order to reinforce the 
instruction.
Once the training i^ finished and lunch 
is consumed, the parachutists are strapped 
into their gear. The gear, which includes a 
pair of special coveralls, jump boots for 
ankle protection, a helmet and the main and 
reserve parachutes, weighs about sixty 
pounds, causing some of the lighter par
ticipants to take on a decidedly hunchback 
look.
The skydivers go up in groups of three, 
along with an experienced jumpmaster and 
the planes pilot. Once over the target area, 
each jumps in turn. One second he [a 
fellow jumper] was in the doorway and the 
next, he was gone, commented John Rentzepis, who made his first jump this fall. I 
felt like going home at that point.
Despite his fears, Rentzepis did make his 
jump, although it was a bit unusual. I 
jumped out of the plane Wrong, and did 
some midair flips before my parachute open
ed and I began to drift normally. To help 
guide the jumper down, each person has a 
walkie-talkie strapped to his midriff. The 
leader on the ground kept saying, looking 
good, looking good, noted Rentzepis, but 
when I looked down, I was heading straight 
continued on page 27
Pregnant? Call AT A
Lets talk about your options
Canng and confidential information 
counseling, pregnancy testing and 
related services.
CohnvEr: (4b2)7Tb-242/
Pittsburgh 731-2420
Washington, FA 225-6494
anhrrEihvvrs ho aborhvoE, uEsS
A non profit orqanuahon
PREGNANT?
And you dkin't /naan to ti? 
For a free pregnancy tart and 
confidential hafe caN
Birthright at62b-b98?
Womens 
Health Services
 LF.. cF.yDaDgY o.fouDyOakland Rm 212. 3520 Forbes Ave Downtown3rd floor. 107 6th St
 aBtFoutD f.FVug.f
 BuFoC gtDoFtI & yYD. gaF.
For Your WHS SURVIVAL KIT. Fill Out & Mail Coupon To Women's Health Services. I07 6th St.. Pittsburgh. PA I5222 Telephone (412) 562-I900
Name
Street
c*y
WHS Survival Kit
State
College |if student) ______________Mail to: WHS. I07 6th St . Pittsburgh. PA 15222

---------------------------------------------------

November 13, 1984The TartanPage 19
Chess champs named; last fall entries due
By SCOTT BOZIC
Tartan Contributing Editor
The Cubs were named champs for the 
regular season in the IM chess league this 
year. They will play the winner of the Gumbi Express-Anything Goes match for the IM 
chess championship.
Deadlines 
Entries are due today, November 13, for 
backgammon and darts. Entries must be in 
at the IM office by 5 p.m. Three person 
volleyball entries are due this Thursday, 
November 15.
Upcoming Sports
IM Director Earle J. Birdy requests that 
hopeful IM basketball teams begin to form 
now. Entries for the four basketball 
leagues major, intermediate, minor, and 
women only  are due Thursday, January 10, 
1985.
Other sports beginning early next 
semester include floor hockey, pinochle, 
and handball.
IM Board
The IM Board will meet this Thursday, 
at 12:30 PM, in Room 101 Gym (IM office).
Physical Education Registration  Spring 1985
Date: November 1415, 1984
Place: Baker Hall, across from the Academic Advisory Center 
Time: 9:00 am  6:00 pm
All graduate and undergraduate students, in
cluding freshmen CIT and MCS students, may 
register for physical education courses. 
Physical Education courses are 6 units each.
Aerobics Basketball CPR Fencing First Aid Golf Karate 
Advanced Lifesaving Personal Fitness Racquetball Soccer Swimmers
IM standings
ChessIntramural Racquetball
Cubs4-0-1Majors
Anything Goes4-1-0Beta0-2
Doherty-A0-5-0Double Fault2-0
Shirley1-4-0No-Names3-0
Gumbi Express3-1-1Boss Hall 22-3
Math Dept.2-3-0DTD1-0
Water PoloPi Lambda Phi0-2
Scobell2-2Minors & Intermediate
DTD8-1Phi Kappa Theta1-2
DU1-1March of Folley1-3
Theta Xi1-2Kappa Sigma Alpha5-0
Beta Theta Pi2-1SAE1-2
Phi Kappa Theta7-3DU-B0-3
SAE9-0DU-A0-2
Pi Lambda Phi0-2Nerds4-0
Team Volleyball
Majors
M *N
Class of 882-0DTDN 0-2
ATO1-1Net .Worth1-2
I Coachs All-Stars0-0Silicon Volley Guys5-0
I Heinys0-2Theta Xi-A-2
Intermediate
JK L
A Team1-3Doherty-C0-1 Challengers0-1I GSIA-Fitz0-3ASO2-0 Physics-Grads5-0
GSI A- Mahoney1-0The Maulers2-1 Theta Xi-B0-3
^ MI Bio3-1Pi Lam0-4 SCF0-3
| Beta2-0Busters2-0 Hird2-1
1DU2-2 Hammers2-1
MinorsWomenAB
Hartman1-0Eliminators0-1 Delta Gamma1-3
Hurricanes0-4ZBT4-1 Chi Omega2-1
Megs2-1Hillel0-4 KAO2-1
, D Tower0-3Shirleys2-21 Kenshaft2-1Heather & Bruisers 1*3
^ Flintstonest4-0Dudes4-0
Red Cross Lifeguard 
Intermediate Swimmers
Beginning Swimmers Tennis Volleyball Weight Training

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Student Senate creatively combats apathy
Since the protest of the 1960s died down, 
students have been accused of apathy. The 
students I know arent apathetic and you can 
prove it by voting in the Student Senate elec
tion today or tomorrow.
Students voted in record numbers last Tues
day, recognizing the importance of their 
ballots. Hopefully, that enthusiasm will carry 
over. This weeks election affects us just as much 
as last.
Many students have not voted in the past 
because they felt Student Senate cant do 
anything. In a sense they are right. Senates on
ly defined power is to allocate money from the 
activities fee. So if you dont belong to an 
organization, theres no reason to voteon the 
surface.
Recently, though, Senate has gotten creative. 
Library hours have been extended and new 
courses have been offered, simply because 
Senate suggested the ideas to the administra
tion. Believe it or not, CMUs administration 
is generally open to student input. From Presi
dent Cyert on down, the administration likes 
to see improvement. So if Senate suggestions 
are feasible, the administration usually acts on 
them.
The better teachers are more likely to be exteded tenure this year than last year because 
a Senate committee revived an old policy giv
ing students input in tenure decisions.
Senate has also formed several committees 
to move forward student interests. A steering
committee and a committee to research 
monopolies at CMU were recently formed. 
Results from both are so far inconclusive, but 
with time will likely produce results.
One committee that has already produced 
is a group formed to look at the appeals pro
cess at CMU. Due to recommendations from 
the committee and a number of other factors, 
the composition of the appeals board has 
changed to include student and faculty 
representation.
Other recent efforts and accomplishments 
could fill this page, but the point is that your 
vote can have positive impact. Take a look at 
the ideas put forth by candidates on pages 12 
and 13, and vote for candidates with creative, 
detailed ideas not just fluff.
Students canidates in today's CMU election
By Bill McCormick
Today, I met a hacker who has been in the 
steam tunnels for weeks. The following is a 
transcript (as best I can remember) of our 
conversation:
H: Hi, Bill! Whats all of the ex
citement about?
B: (forgetting names as usual) 
Todays Election Day.
H: Wait a minute. I thought I heard all of 
the Elephants jumping for joy last week say
ing Ronnie won! Way to go, Gipper! Wasnt 
last Tuesday election day?
B: Well, that was national Election Day. To
day is Student Senate elections. Just like 
CMU has the power to change Tuesdays in
to Mondays, it can set its own Election Day. 
H: Why should I vote?
B: Because who you vote for today will deter
mine how effective this years Student Senate 
will be. If you dont vote, or if you vote for 
someone who you know wont take the posi
tion seriously, you can count on bad student 
government.
H: What does that matter? Student Senators 
dont do anything anyway.
B: Thats what people dont understand. 
Student Senate does a lot, and has the 
potential to do more if only more students 
would show concern about what goes on 
around campus.
H: But what does Student Senate do?
B: Senates most important job is to decide
how your activities fee is spent. Each student 
pays $60 per semester that funds groups like 
The Tartan, WRCT, A Phi O, Thistle, Ac
tivities Board, Spring Carnival, and the 
Hockey and Baseball teams (just to name a 
few). In total, Senate is in charge of ever 
$300,000 of your money. Many schools have 
their organizations funded directly through 
the administration. We are one of the few 
student bodies who has some control over 
where our money goes.
H: Really? What else does Senate do?
B: Senate lobbies for student interests. Ac
tions by Senate have resulted in increased 
library hours, improvements to the Housing 
and Dining Services, new course offerings, 
changes to CMUs judicial procedure, student
Tartan Complaint Department
Gripes include hieroglyphics, cold
By Christopher D. Lewis 
Tartan Complaint Dept.
First priority this week is to make an 
amendment to Complaint Dept, policy. I 
promised to read everything once. I take that 
back. I will read everything in English or 
basic French once.
This deficiency in my language knowledge 
was pointed out by M.M. of Donner Hall, 
who sent his complaint in hieroglyphics.
No complaints on the number of com
plaints this week. Freshman John Blanck of 
Morewood E-Tower sent in 23 complaints, 
and a few individual complaints from 
assorted complainers.
agrees that group chatter is a library pro
blem, the real problem is that there are on
ly four group study rooms in the library. 
With over 5000 students at CMU, there are 
bound to be more than four study groups.
Blanck had numerous complaints. I will 
hit the highlights.
Why do freshmen get course selection 
material after they have already chosen their 
second semester courses last August? Send 
them material before they choose their 
courses.
Blanck also wanted to know why people 
keep telling me to vote? A friend of mine 
wouldve voted for Mondale and I for
A groupie explained that, although he Reagan, so wed have just spent 20 minutesThe Libertarian AlternativeParty for legalized drugs
M i jjal
By Dan Tobias
In a previous column, I alluded to the 
Libertarian positon that drugs should be 
legalized. This is a difficult position for some 
people to understand, so I have decided to 
devote this column to explaining it more 
~ fully.
Basically, Libertarians believe 
each person has full ownership 
of his or her own body. This in
cludes the right to do whatever you wish with 
it as long as no other person is harmed. This 
means what substances a person decides to 
introduce into his body is not a proper con
cern of government.
'n addition, the free market entails the 
right to engage in any transaction to which 
all parties involved consent, again with the 
exception of the case where some other, 
non-consenting person is harmed. Thus, 
the sale of drugs should not be a crime, since 
both the seller and the buyer are engaging
in a transaction which each perceivesr to be 
to his benefit.
In making the statement that the use and 
sale of drugs should be legal, I do not at
tempt to claim that they are safe. I 
acknowledge there are may risks inherent in 
drugs; you can even kill yourself through 
drug abuse. But there are many legal ac
tivities which can be harmful. Should ski
ing and skydiving be oudawed, since peo
ple can be badly injured or even killed 
engaging in these activities?
The proper thing to do is educate people 
about the risks involved in various activities; 
suggest ways of minimizing risk, and ad
vocate people to refrain from engaging in 
dangerous activities. But if somebody still in
sists on doing something that is harmful to 
himself, he has that right.
If somebody lives his entire life without 
ever doing anything posing any measurable 
continued on page 22
cancelling each other out.
One more from Blanck. Do you realize 
how far Pittsburgh is from the closest beach? 
Worse yet, from the closest city with a pro
fessional basketball team (and its 
Cleveland)? Good points, John.
Don Eggert of Morewood wants to know 
why Sprite isnt on the Tartan Grill menu 
board. They serve it, but you have to just 
know that they serve it.
Why dont the new I.D. cards have birth 
dates on them. I realize Pennsylvania wants 
everyone to have PLCB cards; but for those 
of us students who dont live in Pennsylvania, 
we need I.D.s.
Why is it so cold in Skibo?
Why is it so cold in E-Tower?
Why is it so cold in Michael Betts 
apartment?
Why is it so cold in Pittsburgh?
Why dont students vote in the student 
elections? Get in with the program folks.
By the way, I voted for Mondale; and I 
dont think Minnesota matters at all!
Im done. Have an annoying week.
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the beginning of the opinion 
section, and are the official opinion of The Tar
tan Editorial Board
Columns are the opinions of individual authors 
who are usually on The Tartan staff, but the 
opinions are not necessarily those of The Tartan 
Editorial Board.
Letters to the Editor are opinions of individual 
authors who are usually members of the Univer
sity community. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writers address 
and phone number for verification. Names will 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
involvement in the renovation of Skibo, im
provements in recitation sections, among 
other things. In addition, Student Senate 
nominates students to serve as represen
tatives to other groups (Parking, Com
puting, and Tuition committees, Faculty 
Senate, etc.), and acts as a liason between 
the administration and the student body.
H: Who should I vote for?
B: You can find out who is running by look
ing on pages 12 and 13 of this issue of The 
Tartan. Read what each candidate has to say 
and decide for yourself who would represent 
you best. The current Senate is a good one, 
so I would cerainly encourage you to vote for 
the incumbents. One person who you wull 
not get a chance to vote for is John Pane. 
After three years in Student Senate, John has 
decided not to seek re-election. He has serv
ed wellfirst as Rules Committee chairman 
and, most recendy, chairman of the entire 
Senate. He has worked very hard and ac
complished much. His involvement in 
Senate will be missed.
Ill be in the Senate office today from 11:30 
to 12:30, or you can stop by E-325 
Morewood anytime. Hope to see you soon.
Bill McCormick is president of Student 
Government and writes a column for The
Tartan.
Thefateft
Editor-in-Chief ...................Ric Medrow
Managing Editor..............Mike Pilewskij
Business Manager___Neil Greenblumi
News Editor........Christopher D. Lewis
Sports Editor.........................Don Eggert
Photography Editor___Mike Pilewski
Production Manager Michele Reisinger
Ad Manager.........................Steve Volan
Typesetting Manager____till Clel
Art Director........Michael A. Sussmanl
Assoc. Features Editor Neal W. Johnston 
Assoc. Business Mgr. .. .Bonnie Topfj
Asst. News Editor..............Karen Gray
Asst. Production Mgr. .Katrin Wesn# 
Asst. Typesetting Mgr. .. .Joe Hasp*
Contributing Editor........Pauline W#1!
Contributing Editor..................Scott Bo#
Editorial Assistant........Mohan
Production Staff: Bob Aarhus, WJ 
Hatchl, Dana Hausman, Marijean A#3 |
Copyright 1984 by The Tartan. The Editorial 
reserves the right to withhold from publication any'I 
it deems unfit for publication. Editorial 0ffce* ^1 
50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo 52,J* I
578-2112. 24 hour phone. (412) 578-2113. - ^
dress: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh PA
)\
li
Id
[(
rt
\ii
I
\h
t
W
it
s
cei
cei
ISh

---------------------------------------------------

November 13, 1984The TartanPage 21
Letters:
ZBTevidence ",hearsay
FF
Editor:
The evidence you present in excoriating 
Dean Walters suspension of ZBT is so weak 
that I cant help but wonder what the real 
motives behind your November 6 lead 
editorial were.
The positive accomplishments of ZBT 
that you cited are less than impressive. In
dividuals are student senators, not frater
nities. ZBT helped the administration 
prove a no-alcohol rush can be a success 
because they were barred from serving 
alcohol due to past malfeasance, not because 
ZBT brothers espouse temperance. Winning 
Greek sing contests and playing rugby 
dont seem to me to be trememdous con
tributions. Winning an award for most im
proved ZBT chapter may simply indicate 
they had the most room for improvement.
The remaining evidence in your editorial 
consists of brief quotations of hearsay, a 
history of previous actions against ZBT 
which does not call into question the fact 
that incidents for which ZBT was punished 
for did actually occur, and an attack on the 
Korean Students Association (KSA). The latter was particularly disturbing. In the first 
place, it is irrelevant to the disciplinary ac
tions taken against ZBT. In the second place, 
if the offenses that the students you quote 
were in fact perpetrated by KSA members, 
why werent appropriate complaints made 
and action taken? Your editorial fails to ad
dress this.
Finally, you chose to end the editorial with 
an assertion that the Student Senate 
recogniz[ed] a faulty judgement from 
Walter. The minutes of the Student Senate 
meeting do not indicate that any such con
clusion was reached.
If Greek organizations can make signifi
cant positive contributions to campus life, 
they should be encouraged. If they primarily 
serve to promote organized rowdiness, their 
existences should not be tolerated. All the 
evidence I have seen indicates that very 
strong action against ZBT was well justified. 
The evidence given in your editorial does 
nothing to contradict that conclusion.
Gordon L. Hester 
SUPA Ph.D. studentSA member calls editor "careless, prejudiced
##
Editor:
I am really outraged and disappointed at 
the content of the editorial of The Tartan 
issue Nov. 6, 1984 and the quality of the 
editor. Anybody can argue whatever he 
wants based on the freedom of expression. 
However, based on the same principle, it is 
wrong for one to accuse other people without 
facts, and this was what The Tartan editor 
did. Moreover, as editor of a university 
newspaper, not an independent individual, 
} belive that he should be much more obective and careful in writing articles. I 
elieve the editor was either prejudiced or 
/ery careless in writing the editorial of last 
eeks The Tartan , and I shall show why. 
Above all, it was wrong for him to relate 
he incident (brawl between ZBT and some 
oreans last Oct.) with Korean Student 
ssociation. The fight was between 
embers of ZBT and group of friends 
mostly Koreans though) and had nothing 
do with KSA. The editor also related past 
ad incidents that involved Koreans as the 
ct of KSA. But, actually the disciplinary 
ommittee never dealt with KSA about the 
cent and past incidents he mentioned 
B ecause KSA was not involved even though 
I s members were. Then, who is he, the 
Bditor, to brand ajl those things on KSA? 
I Moreover, the editor used a trick to con
vince hi? readers by stating only the good
aspects of ZBT and unfortunate happenings 
of Koreans. If the editor was not ignorant 
or biased, why did he not mention the drink
ing incident that almost killed two people? 
What about the fact that they were on pro
bation last year despite all those good 
features the editor mentioned? Does the 
editor know if there was anything that KSA 
did? The editor was clearly either biased or 
irresponsibly ignorant in presenting the 
editorial.
Strangely, the editor was taking the 
testimony almost only from one side, ZBT. 
It sounded like what really happened was 
that a group of Koreans ambushed the ZBT 
members, which was only ZBTs account of 
the happening. The editor only asked about 
the incident to one outside witness and one 
member of KSA (not clear if he was on the 
site of the fight). All other sources of infor
mation about the fight seemed to come from 
the ZBT side. Moreover, does he have any 
evidence to say Richard Cyert, the president, 
wanted to kick out one fraternity anyway? 
If this is not true, he is again accusing 
another person based on false information.
I am not in position to judge if treatment 
of ZBT by the disciplinary committee is right 
or not. However, as a reader of The Tartan 
and a member of KSA myself, I can not bear 
this false accusation and lousy editorial just 
because it is student-run. I believe that the
editor was irresponsibly careless or prejudic
ed, and I demand a full apology in the next 
issue of The Tartan.
Gerard J. Kim 
Electrical and Computer Engineering 87
Editors note: Gerard Kim is incorrect in 
several of his assertions. Kim states the 
brawl was not between ZBT and KSA but 
between members of ZBT and group of 
friends (mostly Koreans though).  The
members of both ZBT and KSA. The univer
sity took no action against KSA because it 
is an organization composed of Pittsburgh 
students, not a CMU organization.
Kim also states The Tartan editorial made 
no mention of the ZBT drinking incident or 
the probation that followed. The editorial 
mentioned both.
Kim also questions whether The Tartan 
has any evidence of Cyerts quote. It is on
brawl was, for the most part, between tape.Futility deadens spirit
Incentive benefits all ditor: j .,________ ______________________
I This letter is in response to Stuart 
jiapiros November 6 Tartan column.
I If Shapiro thinks continuing to increase
 >vernment aid to those in precarious cirI instances will help the economy, he is 
(<% mistaken.
Cutting government spending is not an efn t0 step on people with lower incomes. 
15 an effort to boost efficiency of governttt, which will help everyone if allowed 
happen.
^as Shapiro ever heard of incentive? Does 
1 ink people will go out of their way to 
|?age in research and development if the 
lts of their labors will then be taken away?
S face11' People generally dont strive for 
e ence without some form of personal ntive.
hapiro demands justice in the form of 
or those who must support a family but
do not know how to program a computer. 
Where does he think those jobs will come 
from? They wont come from firms who have 
been milked to the point they dont have in
centive to increase production anymore. Jobs 
will be created by firms with capital to ex
pand operations.
Producers have no desire to expand opera
tions if all profits are eaten in taxes.
Shapiro writes of human compassion. 
Which is more compassionate? Should we 
distribute societys wealth equitably and 
thereby create a stagnant economy, or 
should we allow people to have something to 
show for their work and, in turn, have in
centive to create a continually expanding 
economy?
Leslie S. Hothersall 
Information Systems 85
Editor:
I hear were apathetic. The students of this 
country, our social conscience, just doesnt 
care. Sure, issues are raised and discussed. 
We might even, God forbid, stage a rally. 
But once the fad appeal of an issue fades, 
so does our interest, my interest. Were liv
ing for now, for what makes us feel good. 
Lets face it, were hedonists.
But why? Why the change? My grand
father once told me that most young peo
ple live, act, and vote according to ideals. 
To visions of what the world should be like, 
and, would be like if we just spoke out. He 
said were unrealistic to act this way, that the 
world doesnt change for idealists. Well, 
where are all these idealists? Most of the 
young people I know voted for Reagan and 
yes, he symbolizes certain ideals. But not 
social ideals. Not real equality, real peace 
or real social justice, issues that we as 
students have fought for in the past. And I 
emphasize past, becuase were not fighting 
now.
So I ask myself, why arent you fighting?
Has that youthful sense of rebellion been 
replaced by maturity? Nope, or at least I 
hope not. Its been replaced by a sense of 
futility. That is, I recently read an article 
that wondered what effect the looming 
threat of nuclear war will have on this 
generation. After all, its this generation, 
and thats us, that spent its youth being 
bombarded by the idea of total destruction. 
A real nice thought and, an excuse for 
apathy? Maybe. I mean, it sort of saps my 
social conscience. Why not live for now? I 
owe myself the most I can get out of life, 
right? If there might not be a future, dont 
think about it. So Reagans deficit will hurt 
us down the road. So the rich are richer, the 
poor poorer, and who cares if Latin America 
hates us in 50 years? My family is better offnow than four years ago and will be next 
year. Im living for the moment, for now, and 
I voted for Reagan, right? Wrong. Dont 
blame the Democrats in 15 years folks, look 
back to now.
Adam Wolf
Industrial Management. 85Reagan voters "selfish
ff
PS. While I did vote, I 
Republican or Democrat.
voted neither
Editor:
In last weeks issue of The Tartan, coluir 
nist Stuart Shapiro made the startling asser
tion that some American voters vote in their 
own self interest. Indeed! Oh, to what dismal 
depths has American democracy descend
ed? It is certainly a sobering prospect that 
members of the electorate are so damned 
selfish.
Actually, there is a silver lining to this dark 
cloud of despair. In Shapiro's view, only those 
who voted for Ronald Reagan (the rich and 
the callous) did so in their own best interest. 
Others, presumably, did not.
I did not realize until election night how
many truly selfish and callous American 
voters there are. To those of you who voted 
for Ronald Reaganyou know who you 
are shame on you!
This is a serious problem. If this business 
of voters selfishly voting in their own best in
terest continues, we may see yet another 
Republican landslide victory in 1988. Whats 
to be done? I propose that each registered 
voter draw the name of another voter by lot 
and cast his ballot in the other voters best 
interest.
Bob McNeely 
Graduate student, 
Industrial Administration

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanNovember 13, 1984
Government promotes drug suppression hysteria
continued from page 20
risk to his health or safety, he is likely to live 
longer than average, but it would be a pret
ty dull life. Where you draw this line, bet
ween acceptable and unacceptable risk 
should be your own business.
As an aside, government drug laws have 
blocked research into how harmful drugs 
are. Since a medical researcher must get 
special permission from the government in 
order to use illegal drugs in his experiments, 
the government can exert tight control on 
just what directions such research takes.
In general, when an experiment yields 
the conclusion that some drug isnt as 
dangerous as had been believed, results tend
to be hushed up; while, if an experiment 
shows a drug to be more dangerous, the 
government trumpets it to all the news 
media, and issues public service messages 
to reveal these new facts.
Besides moral issues involved, there are 
many practical reasons why the prohibitions 
on drugs should be repealed. The rise of 
organized crime is directly attributable to 
the failed experiment of Prohibition. Once 
this was repealed, criminals shifted to nar
cotics, the new area in which government 
was trying the Prohibiton approach.
If drugs were legalized, there would no 
longer be black market profits to be obtain
ed by drug dealing. This would be a serious
blow to organized crime. If prostitution, por
nography, and gambling were also legaliz
ed, organized crime would most likely fade 
away into insignificance.
Not just Libertarians are reaching such 
conclusions. The Consumers Union, well 
known for their impartiality, and hardly a 
radical political organization, has publish
ed a book called Licit and Illicit Drugs; 
(Little, Brown and Co., 1972). This book 
gives many examples throughout history, 
revealing the utter failure of any attempt 
suppress drugs of any sort.
For example, in the early 1600s, Japan 
made an attempt to outlaw tobacco, impos
ing enormous penalties for anybody caught 
with this killer weed. Despite this, people 
of all social classes contined smoking steadi
ly, including people in the Emperors court. 
The government finally gave up and legaliz
ed smoking.
In the 19th Century U.S., on the other 
hand, practically all drugs were fully legal 
and could be obtained without a prescrip
tion. Many people let full lives and careers 
while addicted to opium. There are even 
cases of surgeons who were later discovered 
!to be addicts. Nobody had any complaints 
about their performance. It is simply untrue
Degree candidates in Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering & Computer Science 
Join Racal-Milgo, where you can develop 
advanced data communications 
SOFTWARE/FIRMWARE 
solutions. Work in 
modems, multiplexers,
UNIX -based network manage
ment systems, local area net
works and intelligent 
workstations. Or advance 
the technology of digital signal 
processing (data, voice, image), real-time 
operating systems and com
munications protocols.
(Youll always have opportunities to challenge 
the state-of-the-art and communications 
technology.)
that addicts are unable to lead normal lives 
and become criminals. This is only true in 
the present day situation due to the high 
black market prices and inferior quality of 
illegal drugs. This forces addicts to steal to 
buy their drugs, and increases their risk of 
harm since drugs are often adulterated with 
unknown substances.
The aforementioned book provides some 
interesting details about the history 0f 
modern-day drug laws. The person most 
responsible for the anti-drug hysteria is 
Harry J. Anslinger, who headed the Federal 
Bureau of Narcotics from its founding in 
1932 until the mid 1960s. Before this, he had 
been involved in Prohibition enforcement. 
However, when he saw repeal of Prohibition 
was imminent, he looked for a new menace 
to agitate for laws against, so he could have 
an agency to head. He eventually seized 
upon marijuana.
This lead to trumped-up stories of the 
horrendous crimes people would commit 
under the influence of pot. There wasnt the 
slightest scientific evidence, then or now, for 
these tall tales, but he managed to convince 
Congress and state legislators to outlaw 
marijuana.
For the rest of his career, he continued to 
agitate for stricter enforcement of marijuana 
laws, and, during the hippie era, his agen 
cy actively persecuted long hair types.
At present, although virtually all the 
original reasons behind drug prohibitions 
have been refuted, there is a vested interest 
in maintaining these laws. Many bur 
eaucrals-would lose their jobs if these laws j 
were repealed. They work steadily at devis
ing new reasons for these laws. Theyve been 
successful at keeping the general public in | 
a state of hysteria so intense the idea of j 
legalizing drugs is seldom seriously con 
sidered. However, we need a reassessment I 
of this stance. The Libertarian Party is the 
only political party which is willing to do j 
this.
Dan Tobias is a junior in applied math anil 
writes The Libertarian Alternative jor TheJ 
Tartan
Our continuous growth creates opportunities 
ranging from entry-level Engineer to Senior Research 
Fellow Racal-Milgo offers fast-paced challenges, 
sunny Florida lifestyles, and a beautiful new 
corporate headquarters. Our people and micro
processor-based products have earned a worldwide 
reDutation for excellence.
Friday Nov. 30th 
Well be on ^"^Jnrties a*rdquarters.
t^derdale Corpo^se si9n up I" Vur 
for an NOW.
Pl3C!^ rvoot 12478 . _ ^ BWd.. * L
tvrr 300 fsoEsr ciprrbisks, avrrigr crvr 
Jush ^4S00! frEd for LF..
Complete Dover Science Catalog
Over 300 quality paperbacks, most $3.50 to $6, on J numerous topics in mathematics, physics, engi- l neering, chemistry, geology, biology, etc. High- quality books at reasonable prices! Write to Dover, Dept A167 , 31 E 2nd St.. Mineola, NY 11501
aII.yC.DY Wtp.Df g.Do.F
an out patient medical clinic offering
 Abortion*asleep or awake
 Morning After Treatment
 Birth Control
 Related Services
PHONE 412/362-2920
UNIX is a trademark of Bell Labs
ltaude.dale. F^'da 33321
An EEO/Affirmative Action Employer
nt
Begheny
omen's 
Center___
prdrin grEhrr fish BWx- 211 Dorhe Wevhfvrnd fuS cvhhsburge, ca 15206 cCtDh 412/p2-C20
r< rm 

---------------------------------------------------

November 13, 1984The TartanPage 23
More letters:
Factual errors found in The Tartan's past articles
Editor:In the November 8th edition of The Tar
tan, there appeared an article titled Pi 
Lambda Brother Falls Three Floors 
Through Sigma Skylight. In this article you 
Stated that several Theta Xi alumni alleged
ly caused a disturbance at Pilam by throw
ing pumpkins. The article further goes on 
to say that A Pilam brother, under the im
pression that the disturbance was caused by 
Sigma Nu brothers, climbed on to Sigma 
Nus roof and accidentally broke through the 
skylight, falling three floors. This implies 
that the injuries were a direct result of the
actions of Theta Xi. This is simply not the 
case and is indicative of the type of stories 
reported in The Tartan. If The Tartan had 
bothered to check their facts with security, 
they would have found that the Pi Lambda 
brother fell at 1:42 AM, long before the 
disturbances that The Tartan refers to.
This is not an isolated example of The 
Tartans refusal to do their homework either. 
Within the past month, articles ranging 
from ZBTs status on campus to facts con
cerning the proposed student-run bar in 
Skibo have contained serious errors. A CMU 
security officer even recalls a Tartan reporter
MTC sponsors widespread
Editor:
The Magnetics Technology Center ap
preciates your headline article about our 
work in your November 6, 1984, issue. 
However, the article mentions only two of 
our many sponsors. We would like CMU 
students to know the Universitys research in 
magnetics is generously supported by a wide 
variety of industrial corporations and 
government agencies.
The Memorex/CDC joint contribution of 
$300,000 over three years gives them Af
filiate Member status in our Center. Other 
Affiliate Members, each of whom has com
mitted $150,000 over three years are Alcoa, 
Applied Magnetics, Cybemex, Seagate, and 
Sperry. Our Associate Members, IBM, 3M, 
Digital Equipment Corporation, and 
Kodak, have each committed $750,000 over 
three years. In addition, DuPont, General 
Electric, Intel and Sensormatic are suppor
ting sponsored research or graduate 
fellowships in magnetics. Government agen
cies, including the National Science Foun
dation and NASA, are supporting some of 
our most innovative work. CMUs total 
research budget in magnetics is approaching 
$4 million annually, the largest portion of 
which goes directly to the support of 
graduate students.
The article notes my statement that 
magnetics research requires interdisciplinary 
cooperation, which rarely occurs in univer
sities. Please also note that CMU is a pro
minent exception to that rule. The 
Magnetics Technology Center, for example, 
involves about fifty graduate students and 
twenty faculty from most of the departments 
in Carnegie Institute of Technology and 
Mellon College of Science. This inter
disciplinary activity in our Center and in 
many other organizations on campus is a 
mojor reason for CMUs outstanding reputa
tion in industry.
Alfred B. Bortz 
Assistant Director 
Magnetics Technology Center
##Young Republicans "sham
Editor:
I am a registered voter, a registered 
democrat. In October I transferred my voter 
egistration from my home town to Pittburgh, entrusting my registration to the 
foung Republicans on campus who were 
ponsoring a drive to register eligible 
tudents. Unfortunately, the Young 
Republicans did not turn in my Democratic 
Registration to the Allegheny County Board
of Voter Registration. I was unable to vote 
in this past election because some individual 
or group took my voting privileges into their 
own hands. The implied trust established 
during the Young Republicans campaign to 
register voters was a sham and their 
organization has proved to be grossly 
irresponsible.
Terri Glueck
Self Defined Major, 85
Technology'"
f^ntaOara, California 
Convergent Technology ^ workstations an
entrepreneurial company nlMtionsto
computers. pawning new orga created by
small teams of talent* ^ tcchnoloqy we o 
SSfflSSSdr- created our vibrant
We have achieved "'^'standards ''J^^MponsWe-by keeping our ented and the most P
the best peopleth* most Computer Schce ^es
frrvvsrs iEd csdn" ,
visiting him and reading the official report 
on a recent incident, and then, when the ar
ticle appeared in The Tartan, several key 
facts were reported incorrectly.
However, when these errors are pointed 
out to The Tartan editors what is their 
response? An article explaining the mistake? 
A section on the Editorial Page clearly poin
ting out these errors? All too often the only 
confession that The Tartan makes is in a 
small, out of the way comer.
I dont mean to be too harsh with The 
Tartan. I understand that you face the dif
ficult task of trying to get stories from an 
often hostile student body. Yet, if the editors 
and reporters on The Tartan would try in 
the future to collaborate their facts with all
the involved parties, or even, for the sake of 
accuracy, hold articles back an issue until 
all the facts are collected and verified, it is 
possible that The Tartan would become far 
more respected as a source of information 
here on campus.
Fred Bennett 
President 
Theta Xi Fraternity
Editors Note: The editor regrets any factual 
mistakes in The Tartan. However, Mr. Ben
nett must realize human error makes perfect 
reporting impossible. The Tartan 
acknowledges mistakes like the major 
newspapers  in a column labelled Correc
tion or by printing a letter to the editor like 
this one.
THIS FRIDAY AND EVERY 
OTHER FRIDAY WRCT 
PRESENTS SELECT 
VIDEOS IN GREY 
MATTER
SKIBO
SUNDAY NIGHTS 
P C12
The one requirement 
of the show is that the 
group perform live with
out the use of electrical 
instruments
A Live music and interview
show spotlighting Pittsburgh's 
music groups
THIS WEEK : THE CONGO EELS
Custom Designed Hairstylesthat only look expensive I
Our professional stylists know that to custom cut your hair the way you want, they 
must listen to what you want That's why at Great Expectations you'll leave 
with the style you had in nr id at a price you can afford 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED 
237 Atwood Street Mon.. Tue*., Wed. 10-7 No Appointment 
Across the street from Thurs., Frt. 10-9 UNISEX
Oakland Post Office Sat. 9-6 __ HAIR SALON
________687-3500
?>ERM$ FOR Alt STYIFS$25.00
WASH. CUT AND 
BLOW DRV$13.00
IANY LENGTH)
06EXftcrnnsRS
PRECISION HARCUTTERS

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24The TartanNovember 13, 1984
Column provided for student compliments
By Michael Ketzenberg 
This column is the first and last I am 
writing about a subject I know everyone has 
completely forgotten about: complimenting.
Everyone has compliments, little special 
awards you want to tell people about, but 
just dont fit in your prototypical 
cynical Letter to the Editor. 
ga This is your new outlet. If you 
have a compliment, tell me
about it. I dont care if its three words or 
a novella. I have my own compliments that 
will be aired out here because some obvious
ly mentally incompetent people did not elect 
me to be an editor.
I will call this column the Tartan Com
pliment Dept. This does not come after any 
other suggestions because no one ever 
dreamed of a compliment before.
Similarly, I am not providing an address
Alcohol serving illegal
Editor:
In the October 30, 1984, issue of The Tar
tan, a letter to the editor appeared concer
ning the alleged serving of alcoholic 
beverages to minors. This letter makes 
reference to a fraternity rule designed to pre
vent alcohol from being served to minors. 
This is not the complete story. There are also 
laws which make it unlawful to furnish 
alcohol to minors. Pennsylvania Law states 
that:
It shall be unlawful ***
(1) For any licensee or 
the board, or any 
employee, servant or 
agent of said licensee 
or of the board, or 
any other person, to 
sell, furnish or give 
any liquor or malt or 
brewed beverages, or 
to permit any liquor 
or malt or brewed 
beverages to be sold, 
furnished or
given. . .to any
minor. . .
47 P. S.  4-493 (1)
(Purdonc 1969).
This section of the statute imposes criminal 
liability upon any person who sells, furnishes 
or gives alcohol to a minor.
The extent of responsibility does not end 
with criminal liability, however. Under the 
case of Giardina v. Solomon, 360 F. Supp. 
262 (M.D. Pa. 1973), the United States 
District Court for the Middle District of 
Pennsylvania, in refusing to grant summary 
judgement, held that, under  4-493 (1) of 
the Pennslyvania Liquor Code, a fraternity 
which served liquor to a person who was 
both highly intoxicated and a minor could 
be civilly liable to innocent third-parties who 
were injured by the intoxicated minor. 
Although it is not clear whether a court 
would in fact impose civil liability on a 
fraternity for serving alcohol to a minor, the 
possibility exists and the arguments for do
ing so are persuasive.
Each situation, of course, would have to 
be decided based upon the particular facts 
and circumstances involved, but why take 
the risk? Why risk becoming involved in the 
long and complicated process of court litiga
tion, when there is an easy solution. Simply 
do not sell, furnish or give alcohol to a 
minor. By doing so, the specter of both civil 
and criminal liability is avoided.
James G. Uber
to send compliments. That would be too 
complimentary.
I remind you, this is the compliment 
department, not the lovers word. I dont 
want to hear that you have five girlfriends 
and want to compliment them all. If you do, 
youre lying cause no, I mean no CMU guy 
has that many! And, I probably dont care 
if your girlfriends do something that you love 
repeatedly, on the other hand just send me 
their names.
If you dont contact me, I dont care. Ill 
just keep using the space for my own com
pliments and special thanks. And, if you 
compliment me about being a chronic complimentor, then Ill thank you and keep on 
complimenting until I graduate.
Here is the official policy of the Tartan 
Compliment Department (never to be 
printed again, so throw this away if you want 
it): I promise to throw everything away once 
and I promise to be close-minded.
I will print only what I feel is a compliment and joke about the rest of the stuff with 
my friends. I will add anything I want to a 
letter, so if you want something printed" 
dont write it. I will write my column on 
Fridays, so make sure your compliments are 
sent to me by Saturday. Anyone is fair game 
so use names if you want. If theyre my 
enemies, I wont print their name, but will 
print a generic compliment.
Michael Ketzenberg is a freshman intending 
to major in information systems and writes 
a column for The Tartan.
Volleyball season ends
Editor:
There are so many I wish to thank for our 
successful Volleyball season. The players who 
worked so hard and played as a team. 
Members of the Volleyball Club and two 
alumni who came to practice to hit and shag 
balls. The students who cheered, made signs
and added that little extra spark to help 
win the Conference title. And a very spccial 
thanks to junior Heinrich Pan. He has acted 
as my assistant coach for three years. 
Without him we could not have won the 
Championship.
Jane Fisk
Twelve inch records gain
continued from page 11
single from Pictures at Eleven, which has as 
its B side a song called Farp Host.
Since the cutter may have the whole side 
of the disk for one four minute song, it need 
not be compressed, since the grooves can be 
placed rather far apart. This lack of com
pression can greatly augment the quality of 
the recorded song, dependent, of course, on 
whether or not the original song had any
range of volume.
Although most record companies have 
begun releasing 12 singles to the public by 
now, there are still many that are only pro
motional issues. Although it is not legal to 
sell these, you can find them almost 
anywhere. Next time you hear Dios live
Rainbow in the Dark on the radio, you will 
know that you can find it on a 12 single.
THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
^ WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS OF CMU 
^ REASONABLE RENTAL RATES!
^ THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND!
^ "THE FAIRFAX" ...4614 5th AVE.!
^ WE WILL FURNISH IF NEEDED! 
is YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
The management invites the Faculty 
Members, Graduate Students & CMU 
Guests to visit and .inspect our ONE 
BEDROOM & STUDIO APARTMENTS 
that could become available for September, 
October and November occupancy.
We are open for your viewing seven days 
a week. PLEASE call H. M. Harrity for 
YOUR appointment, anytime. DIAL 
621-4030. We'll see YOU at "THE 
FAIRFAX" ...Neighbor.
A Phi O
SHUTTLEBUS 
to the 
AIRPORT
November 21
Departing : 
Morewood
11:45 am 
1:45 pm 
3:45 pm 
5:45 pm
Donner
12 noon 
2:00 pm 
4:00 pm 
6:00 pm
ONLY $3.50
Sign up at Skibo Information Des*

---------------------------------------------------

prnnoE iEEouEsrs i sompuhrr progrim vE i uEvvrrsin niEguigrS
you need a computer help you earn credits, 
ellon offers the credit u need.
Students who qualify can obtain a 
Mellon MasterCard and VISA account 
with a $500 revolving credit line plus a 
fixed payment loan for up to $2500 to 
buy a computer system at the CMU 
Computer Store. This is your opportu
nity to get your own computer or add to 
your existing system.
Mellon makes it easy. Well be sending 
a special student application to your 
home during Thanksgiving break or you 
can pick up one on campus at the 
Computer Store*
Low prices, competitive rate. You can 
use your Mellon MasterCard and VISA 
card just about anywhere, but the $2500 
fixed payment loan can be used one
time only by presenting your Mellon 
Card at the Computer Store.**
Available to faculty, too. This offer is 
also available to faculty and staff mem
bers who qualify.
This offer is only available through Mellon Bank, N.A.
*Students will be required to fill in their portion of the appli
cation and have it cosigned by an individual of their choice 
(such as the head of the household or another responsible individual). Return the application to Mellon and, if 
approved, the card will be issued in the student s name 
based on the cosigners credit information. For students who 
can demonstrate independent credit worthiness, a cosigner will not be required.
**The annual percentage rate for the loan will be the same 
as that charged for purchases on Mellon MasterCard and VISA accounts.
Mellon Bank
A neighbor you can count on

---------------------------------------------------

Fmes.
By Mark LevineJoe Freshman
jT txcusf Mfc, M i 5U5T 
VlAurr To Tell Yw j'k &oim& 
to SCOURY ACROSS 0UR FLOOR, 
ftwo trtfN disappear. Uwder Your 
BfD. OKAY?
Of 60DRSE, THfRE'S fr LOT TO
saio fon svTTiMG. OfJ the 
fD&E OF Y0R BEP, WITH A 
\ SUDbMmti... s
81113333 S.Aike6 twt A 6000 
Nl6V'S SLEEP AFTER A MO
nvvh of adyssvs333
A fpu/quit tips
Hid all ashtrays, matches, 
etc.
Lay in a supply of sugarless gum, carrot sticks, etc.
Drink lots of liauids, but pass 
up coffee & alcohol.
Tell everyone you're quitting 
for the day.
When the urge to smoke hits, take a deep breath, hold it 
for 10 seconds, & release it 
slowly.
Exercise to relieve the tension. 
Try the "buddy system," and 
ask a friend to quit too.
TAKE A DAY OFF
...from smoking. Join the Great American 
Smokeout on Thursday, November 15. Millions of 
Americans across the country will make a fresh start and try not to smoke for 24 hours. How 
about you? Or, if you don't smoke, adopt a 
smoker for the day and promise to help that 
friend get through the 24 hours without a 
M cigarette!Great American
84-(10MM)-No. 5680-LE
MENU roi 
MOREWOOD GARDEN!
Soup: Chicken Gumbo; Lunct: 
Flounder Almondine, Turkey Devon 
shire w/Heavy Cheese Sauce, Deli 
Dinner: Carved Roast Beef Au Jus 
Veal w/Mushroom Gravy, Ham M 
Swiss Quiche, Roman Rice & Beans I
MENU FOR
KILTIE CAFE
Soup: Clear Vegetable; Lunch: Ham
burgers, Creamed Chicken w/ 
mushrooms, Savory Rice Bake; 
Dinner: Shortribs of Beef, Seafood 
Creole, Chinese Vegetable Dinner
35 Aquatic 
mammals
38 Shallow vessels
39 Equality
41 Halt
42 Bitter vetch
43 A state
45 Petition
46 Latin 
conjunction
47 Margins
49 Symbol for 
thoron
50 Give
52 Created a 
disturbance
54 Memoranda
55 Shouts
DOWN
1 Daughter of 
Mohammed
2 Article
TUES
11/13CROSS
WORD
PUZZLE
1 Deadly 6 Falls short
11 Administer
12 Onslaught
14 Near
15 Cuddles up
17 A state: abbr
18 Edge
20 Food 
programs
21 Unit of 
Japanese 
currency
22 Send forth
24 Single
25 Hurried
26 Planet 
28 Whirlpool
30 Attempt
31 Sunburn
32 Parts of play
Soup: Minestrone; Lunch: Spaghetti 
w/Meat Sauce or Clam Sauce, Hot 
Sausage Sandwich w/Meatless Sauce, I 
Fettuccini Alfredo, Deli; Dinner! 
Carved Roast Beef Au Jus, Turktll 
w/dressing & gravy, Half Smok<*| 
w/escalloped apples, Garden Omeletl 
- CMU
Soup: Minestrone; Lunch: Hot 
Meatloaf Sandwich, Pizza Omelet, 
Macaroni au gratin; Dinner: Ham
burger Stroganoff, Fried Flounder 
Almondine, Zucchini Italian
WED
11/14
FROM COLLEGE 
PRESS SERVICE
Soup: French Onion; Lunch: BBQ, 
Beef Sandwich, Chicken Souffle, 
Welsh Rarebit; Dinner: PASTA BAR 
 Assorted Pasta, Meat/Meatless 
Sauce, Ham & Swiss Quiche
Soup: Potato Chowder; Lunch: U 
w/rice, BLT Sandwich; 
Dinner: THANKSGIVING DINNE* 
- Carved Roast Beef, Cornish Hej 
Baked Ham w/orange raisin, Stun 
Shells w/Meatless Sauce
7 The sweetsop8 Possessive 
pronoun
9 Note of scale
10 Diatribe
11 Female horses 
13 Varieties
16 Playing card 
19 Fingerless 
gloves 
21 Kind of piano:
THUR
11/15
3 Make into 
leather
4 Matured
5 Injury6 Hesitate
Soup: Cream of Tomato; Lu**' 
Macaroni au gratin, V4 Hot Hoagie 
CMU; Dinner: Carved Turkey BreJ 
w/cranberry sauce, Baked Had I 
Swedish Meatballs o/rice
Soup: Tomato Bouillon; Lunch: Fish 
Sandwich, Chili Beef Casserole, Car
rot Loaf w/pea sauce; Dinner: Chill
ed Pork Chops, Baked Stuffed Fish, 
Eggplant Parmesan
FRI
11/16
23 Twists 
25 Quarrels 
27 Grain
29 Unit of Siamese 
currency
32 Haste
33 Cardboard box
34 Extras
35 Of bad 
disposition
36 Courses
37 Squander 
40 Succor
43 Speck
44 Great Lake
47 Flying mammal
48 The sun 
51 Negative 
53 Symbol for
thallium
Soup: Chicken Noodle; Lunch: Eggs 
to order, Scrambled Eggs, Beef & 
Cheddar Quiche, Chicken Fillet Sand
wich, Waffles/Fruit Top; Dinner: Piz
za (pepperoni). Cheese & Mushroom 
Omelet, Pizza (plain), Swedish Meat
balls o/Rice
SAT
11/17
university
fcomgsennee
Soup: N.E. Clam Chowder; Lunch: 
Eggs to order. Scrambled Eggs, Beef 
Pot Pie, Sloppy Joe Sandwich, French 
Toast w/syrup; Dinner: Ham & 
Turkey Supreme, Grilled Liver & 
Onions, Cheese Ravioli
SUN
11/18
Soup: Chicken Noodle;
Italian Pepper Steak, Chicken 
o/biscuit. Spinach Noodle*- 
Dinner: Carved Roast Beef 
Fried Chicken, Beef Bur 
o/noodles, Cheese Fondue ^
Soup: Tomato; Lunch: Grilled 
Cheese Sandwich, Chili con Came, 
Vegetarian Chili; Dinner; Chicken 
Breast Hawaiian, Baked Meatloaf, 
Barley Casserole
 1984 United Feature SyndicateMON
11/19

---------------------------------------------------

Tartans to provide thrills, maybe title
__ x______-t- u:______. .  . . ...continued from page 17
City. Each of these players is expected to con
tribute to the overall strength of the Tartans. 
Talented newcomers to help team 
Stewart, who played in the Roundball 
U Classic for the Western Pennsylvania Allrf$ars, is currently the starting point guard. I He does a lot for us out on the court. He 
handles the ball pretty well, he can score 
some points, he handles our offense and he 
has speed, commented Anderson when asked about Stewart.
I Coach Anderson said that he has nothing 
but high hopes for Hart Coleman. He 
fcelieves that Coleman may become one of 
Bhe best players in the history of the school 
ftfter he learns to use his body and learns theS
- ame. If he keeps growing and improving, 
e will become an intimidating factor on the 
|ourt and especially on the boards.
I Tom Franklin was described as one of the 
|are true guards in either high school or 
lollege. He will be a major contributor to 
the team with his ball handling abilities and
his passing to the big guys in the middle. He 
will also help with his strong defense.
Dave Smith may have been overlooked by 
some because he could be described as thin 
and wiry, but Anderson hopes to use him 
because he is a battler. If Dave can pick up 
a few pounds, he will become a major con
tributor to the team. Anderson ended our 
discussion of the freshmen by saying 
Remember that these guys are freshmen. 
As they grow in the game they will become 
even bigger factors.
Anderson pledges excitement 
Anderson summed up his current team by 
saying, I think this team is uncharacteristic 
of the past in that we could possibly put two 
or even three big guys on the court. 
When asked about the entertainment 
aspect of his team, he sparked a quick rep
ly. We will be very exciting to watch. We 
have speed and strength. We have some guys 
that can hustle up and down the court and 
then go up for the dunk. We have the per
sonnel to play my kind of basketball. We will
move up and down the court. I dont like to 
run the stall, and I think the fans will really 
enjoy the team. When we instill some pride 
and confidence in this team, we will win this
Tartans to host Big Heart"
CMU will host the second annual Big 
Heart Classic, on Nov. 29 and Dec. 1 (see 
schedule below). All proceeds will benefit
conference and maintain the ability to win. the Western PA Heart Association.
TARTAN HOME 
BASKETBALL SCHEDULE
jNov. 27 Penn State  Behrend 8:00 pm Jan. 9 Wash. & Jeff. College
Big Heart Classic Jan. 19
Nov. 30 7 pm Westminster vs. Mt. Union Jan. 23
9 pm CMU vs. Case Reserve 
Dec. 1 1 pm Consolation Feb. 2
3 pm Championship Feb. 13
Dec. 5 Pitt  Tohnstown 8:00 pm Feb. 22
Hiram College 
Thiel College
8,00 pm 
2:00 pm 
8:00 pm
Grove City College 2:00 pm
John Carroll University 8:00 pm 
Bethany College_______8:00 pm
Student tells of skydiving
continued from page 18
for a cornfield! I began pulling left and right 
(each parachute is equipped with handles to 
help control it), but I ended up landing on 
the edge of the field, crushing six or eight 
stalks of com in the process. I did a perfect
roll landing, though. Despite his unintend
ed agricultural encounter, Rentzepis is en
thusiastic and plans to jump again.
Anyone interested in exploring the rich 
rewards of skydiving should check the 
meetings list at the Skibo Information Desk.
Youre on the bridge of a 200- 
miliion*dollar Navy destroyer 
ploughing through the choppy 
waters of the South China Sea.
And youre in charge.
Youre ready for the responsibil
ity ln*cause youre a Navy Officer. 
With more authority than
most corporations will ever 
give you at 22.
The rewards are greater, too. 
With a great starting salary of 
$17,700. A comprehensive package 
of benefits. And an increase up 
to ts much as $31,000 after four 
years with regular promotions
and pay raise*.
Theres more to learn in the 
Navy. About yourself and about a , 
career that can List a lifetime, (iot 
every thing you're eapnbfe of from 
tin* start when you start in the 
Navv. S<*e vour Navv Recruiter or
gaII 800-327-DaVYS_____NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY PAST.

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
CLASSIFIEDS
The Trtan is looking for a new Assistant 
Business Manager! No experience necessary. 
Job includes billing of classifieds and subscrip
tions, as well as training in the Business 
Managers job. Call Bonnie, x4405 or The Tar
tan, x2111, or come by Skibo 50-52 Thursday 
from 6pm to 9pm.
Word Processing: manuscripts, resumes and 
cover letters, dissertations, term papers; exact 
copy/editing available, 24-hour service, 621-8544 
or 681-5416.
Is it true that you can buy jeeps for $44 through 
the U.S. government? Get the facts today! Call 
1-312-742-1142, ext. 3401-A.
Excellent resume and cover letter constructed 
at lowest cost in area. 15% discount with CMUID. Interviewing techniques and potential 
employer list provided free. Open evenings and 
weekends. Penn Avenue, Wilkinsburg. Daramola 
Corporation, 241-0222.
Flying Fingers Word Processing. Manuscripts, 
papers, resumes, cover letters, etc. We use IBMPC with letter quality printer (HP Laserjet). 
Rough drafts on disk are available. 731-8978.
DISCOVER INTELS TECHNOLOGY LEADERSHIP
Intel. The microelectronics leader. Responsible for such technological firsts as 
RAMs (Random Access Memories), EPROM's (Erasable Programmable ReadOnly Memories), microprocessors, single-board computers, microcomputer 
development systems and million-bit bubble memories. Intels formula for 
success combines resources, objectives, people and a company philosophy that 
inspires and rewards excellence.
We know you've worked hard to make yourself the best you can be... So have we. 
You deserve nothing less than the best... We accept nothing less than the best. 
We have a lot in common... If you're looking for a chance to achieve firsts of your 
own, invest your education at Intel... the leader in microelectronics and careers.
If you are unable to meet with us, please contact Intel College Relations at the 
location of your choice:
Arizona: 5000 West Williams Field Road, Chandler, AZ 85224 
Santa Clara, California: P.O. Box 3747, Santa Clara, CA 95051 
Sacramento/Folsom, California: 151 Ravine Road, Folsom, CA 95630 
New Mexico: 4100 Sara Road, Rio Rancho, NM 87124 
Oregon: 5200 N.E. Elam Young Parkway, Hillsboro, OR 97124 
Texas: 12675 Research Boulevard, Austin, TX 78766.
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H
OPEN HOUSE 
November 15,1984 
Check the Placement Office for details. 
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
November 16,1984
Wanted: models for figure and glamour 
photography. Please send picture. Write Post Of
fice Box 10161,. Pittsburgh 15232.
Oakland Review, CMUs literary magazine, is
published annually by a student staff. All students 
interested in working on the 1985 edition:, there 
will be a meeting on Nov. 12 at 6:00 p.m. in Skibo 
Room 12.
Stereo service  all makes, all models. 
Amplifiers, receivers, turntables, tape decks, car 
stereos, TVs, VCRs. 30-day warranty. Steve 
362-6927.
Mailing Labels with names and addresses of 
companies that hire scientists and engineers. 600 
labels for $20.00. Motto Labels with your Mot
to on them. Semper Ubi Sub Ubi. 100 labels with 
your motto, $5.00. Chicago Computer Products, 
PO Box 7994, Pittsburgh, PA 15216.
A&A Secretarial Service  Quality typing, low 
prices, pickup and delivery available. For further 
information, call 362-TYPE.
Need transportation? Drive a car anywhere in 
USA. Must be 21. References required. Call 
828-4813.
EXOTIC DANCERS  Entertainment for par
ties, male and female dancers. Stripper-grams 
931-3255.
Karan Kalb, B.A., M.A., (Ph.D.)  Editing, 
writing, transcription, manuscript typing, word 
processing: English-French translation,
ESL/TESOL, French, English instruction (PA 
certified), (412)521-8383.
The Tartan needs typesetters. We pay all
workstudy students $3.50 to start. No experience 
necessary. Call 578-2111 or stop by Skibo 50-52 
to apply.
$$$ Unlimited sales opportunity with natural 
and organic products. Call 661-3400.
Tired of where youre living? Female roommate 
needed 2nd semester. Nice clean apt. Oakland. 
Close to everything. Call Liz 683-4013.
Lost on campus October 27. Reading glasses. 
Half lenses in black Deep See frames. Call Gor
don x2185.
Car pooling  winter term  Bethel Park to 
Oakland. Female driver preferred. Will share ex
penses. Call Maria 833-5614.
Easiest cleaning is cleaning you do not havJ 
do. Minute-Maid professional services for 
years. 682-3860.
$Easy Money! I will pay $25 for your phj 
book. Call Lee Ramsey collect at (615)577-72| 
After 6 pm.
Cold weather got you down? Then think abol 
your dinner being enjoyable. Blimpies can ha| 
die it for you. Free large beverage with every s 
wich with this ad. Blimpies delivers 11:00 a| 
7:00 pm. Soup, trays, and party sandwic 
available, 2 feet - 6 feet long. Comer Semple a 
Forbes, 682-2210. Coupon Power!
76 Honda Civic. 4-speed. Very good conditio| 
$1300. 793-9091, 795-8010.
MISCELLANEOUj
A half-day seminar on the deployment of i 
sonal computers was held on Friday, October| 
1984. The purpose of the seminar was to stimu 
serious discussion of the issues involved in de 
ing networked, personal computers to the i 
CMU campus community by 1986. The semi 
was extremely comprehensive and covered i 
gress made to date on the implementation j 
CMUs computing initiative and associated i 
blems. Because it was not possible to invite 3 
entire campus community, the session 
videotaped and the tape is available for individi 
viewing in Audio Visual Services, Hunt Libn 
A media classroom can be made available! 
group showings. Arrangements should be 1 
through AVS.
CARE, the International Relief Organizaa 
signed an agreement with the government 
Ethiopia under which CARE will provide 1 
food and financial aid to the drought-s 
people of Ethiopia. Contributions to the ( 
victims can be sent to: CARE, Ethio 
Emergency Fund, Kaufmanns Department i 
400 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15219. 
Abortion: Two Views  A Medical Persf, 
and A Personal Perspective  Dr. McGarvey j 
open the evenings presentation at 7:30 pm,' 
day, Nov. 13th, in Room 107, David Lav 
Hall, University of Pittsburgh. A film (tobej 
nounced) will follow the discussion. The adi 
sion is free. For more information, call J.VJ 
687-6527.
Our Clients Expect To 
Work With The Best 
Information Systems 
Specialists In The 
Business...
. . . AND WE DONT LET THEM DOWN.
American Management Systems, Inc, a nationwide 
computer services and information systems 
technology firm, is a leader in todays fastest grow
ing industry.
We are looking for innovative people interested in 
designing developing and implementing informa
tion systems. You will have a variety of challeng
ing assignments analyzing and solving our clients 
management information problems.
We cordially invite all Computer Science, 
Information Systems and Administration 
and Management Science majors to at
tend a presentation on Opportunities at 
AMS being held at: Skibo Hall, Room 11, 
on November 28th, at 6:30 PM.
A representative from AMS will be interviewing on 
campus on November 29th and again during the 
spring semester. If you are interested in hearing 
more about our Programmer/Analysts and 
Systems/ Analysts opportunities please contact the 
placement office or forward your resume to: Joan 
E. Davis, Manager of College Relations, 
American Management Systems, Inc. 1777 
North Kent Street, Arlington, Virginia 22209.ams
AMERICAN MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS. INC.
Washington, D.C.  New York  Chicago 
 Houston  Denver  San Francisco
Oil 575-2921gpm orivrn tffvsr
Campus Convintene
Skibo 40A
