The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 83, Number 11, November 23,1982.
Fraternities accuse administration of hostility
By RIC MEDROW
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor 
"Theyve got a noose around our neck, 
and the administration is doing everything 
they can to tighten the noose, says Keith 
Block, president of Pika.
Blocks statement stems from a new 
administration policy to clamp down on 
the fraternity system.
According to Braden Walter, Dean of Stu
dent Affairs, several fraternities have recently 
been involved in a number of thefts that 
were proven to have originated from frater
nities. Walter says that several pledges have 
been given lists of items to steal from the 
university. As a result, Walter sent a memo 
to each fraternity saying, Frats as a group 
are in jeopardy if unlawful acts continue to 
be committed.
Scott Brasco, president of ATO, reacts to 
the memo saying, Its a real drastic change 
that the university is taking toward frats, 
and I do believe its been a little hostile. 
Brasco condnues, "I understand that they 
are trying to change the status quo. Some 
things do need to be stopped.
But change takes time, he added. If the
In this issueEditorial
SACs.......................................page 2
News
financial aid .........................page 6
Family gives money..............page 7
Features
Electric Guitars interviewed page 9 
Kiesler on computers.........page 10
Entertainment
Two acts reviewed.............page 13
River City Brass Band .... page 14
Sports
I Iockey wins again ...
Chicos back .........
page 17 
page 18
university would take more of a working 
attitude, the changes would be a lot 
smoother. It just seems that the university 
says If you do this, this is what happens. 
Walter responds, saying, Yes, that is our 
policy. Theft is theft. If theyre going to steal 
and get caught, theyre going to get their 
hands slapped. Theft is not something that 
can be changed gradually.
Brasco comments, I just hope hes got 
proof. If he doesnt, it could get all blown 
out of proportion. They could bring the 
university down with the frats if incorrect 
accusations are made.
Block goes even further. He wonders, 
How do they know the thefts originate 
from the frats? Maybe they know more than 
I do. But if they cant prove what they say, 
were going to fight. We dont want to be 
pushed.
Part of Walters policy toward fratemides 
includes a feeling that, There is inherent in 
a fraternity a responsibility to control its 
members. A frat is based upon strong moral 
values. Its a body in which actions of each 
individual should be viewed as reflecting on 
the frat as a whole.
Walter would like to see more fraternities, 
but not destructive ones.
However, Brasco argues, Its not fair to 
punish a whole house according to what 
one or two members might do. If hes going 
to carry that kind of attitude toward fraterni
ties, he should do the same for the 
university. There are some administrators 
that have been here (ATO) and believe we 
are taking positive steps. But, others are not 
willing to give us a chance. All they ever 
seem to want to do is prosecute us for 
something.
The fraternities feel that the administra
tion overlooks the good things that frats do. 
They point out that frats provide a substan
tial part of the CMU social atmosphere and 
contribute heavily to charity work. During 
the fraternity Watermelon Bash, the school 
hired a tend to play on the cut.
One complaint of the frats is that pledges 
are not allowed off of their food contracts to 
eat at their frat unless they move into the 
house.
Walter agreed. "That (the food contract 
issue) is a real problem, he said. I am in 
sympathy with them in that issue. How else 
are they to get to know the other brothers? I 
would really like to find a remedy for that 
one.
As far as the administration being against 
fraternities, Walter exclaims, I think frats 
can be a great thing. But if were going to
clean up their bad name, were going to 
have to clean up the behavior thats giving 
them a bad name,
Walter continues, Already, weve spent 
time talking about parties and benefits, and 
weve tried to strengthen relations with 
alumns. We work with them on lots of 
things. But first we need to set standards and 
get guidelines set.
New senators elected
Over 13% of the student body voted in 13 
new student senators last week.
CIT had 10 people running for 5 seats. 
Laura Sabadell received the greatest number 
erf votes, followed by John Pane, Srikanth 
Raj an, Rob Devoy, Bruce Crain.
Todd Rieman and write-in candidate 
Leann Rosner won the two H&SS seats.
In MCS, the two winners are Adolph DiSandro and A. Joseph Guarino, III.
Tom McCarthy was the only candidate 
on the ballot in CFA. Two seats were availa
ble. He and write-in William Tennyson 
Bardwell are the winners.
Only four votes were cast in GSIA. Denese 
Stackhouse won as a write-in.
One vote was cast for George Galvi in 
SUPA.
The new senators will be seated tonight.
A total of 660 students voted.
photo by Kaihken DraaenoviA
A Phi O representatives Laura Golowich and Amy Peterman manned the ballot tables 
during the senate elections last week.
Chigier appointed 
Brown professor
photo by John Stilwell
ZBT pledge Phil Pierre advertises the Time Warp party in front of Doherty Hall.
Walter says frats involved in thefts
Professor Norman Chigier has been 
named William J. Brown Professor of 
Mechanical Engineering.
The William J. Brown Professorship of 
Mechanical Engineering was established in 
1978 by the late William J. Brown, a 1935 
alumnus of the Mechanical Engineering 
Department at CMU.
Brown, a successful businessman and 
entrepreneur, was one of the founders of the 
Dynacolor Corporation, which consisted 
largely of research and experimentation on 
the development of the color positive film, 
Dynacolor, which he invented. After selling 
the corporation in 1963, he became involved 
in various other businesses including the 
development of a new vapor-turbine engine 
for a steam-powered car, a surgical-support 
bladder which he developed, in addition to 
other types of support equipment for the 
physically disabled, and an automatic
horse-feeding machine.
Chigier was awarded his M. A.(1960), 
Ph.D.(1961) and Sc.D.(1977) degrees from 
the University of Cambridge. He has had 
seven years of industrial appointments and 
has held teaching appointments at Sheffield 
University and Technion-Israel Institute of 
Technology. Visiting appointments were 
held at Stanford University, University of 
California (San Diego), and Ecole Centrale 
(Lyon). At the University'of Sheffield he 
initiated and directed the Combustion Aero
dynamics Laboratory. He was the Benedum 
Professor at CMU for 1981-81.
Chigier is a Fellow of the Institute of 
Energy, Associate Fellow of the American 
Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, 
and a member of the American Society of 
Mechanical Engineers. He was a recipient of 
the ASMEs Lew?is F. Moody Award (1965) 
continued on page 7

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Student Advisory Councils: long may they wave
About three weeks ago The Tartan sent out reporters 
to investigate how the Student Advisory Councils are 
doing (if they are doing) this year.
Apparently the people in the Student Affairs office 
had the same idea. But they are still waiting for the 
departments to respond to their inquiries of: 1) whether 
or not their department has a SAC; 2) who the members 
erf that SAC are; and 3) what their SAC is planning to do 
this year.
We got impatient and called all 26 academic depart
ments over the weekend to find out for ourselves at least 
who had SACs. An in-depth article will appear in the 
next Tartan.
The results were favorable. Of the 26 we called, we 
were able to contact 20, and received the following 
results:
Arch - yes (faculty only)
Artyes (not well organized)
Design-Not Available (NA)
Drama-No (getting one together)
Music-NA
English--No (HicSS has one)
Hist.fc Phil.-No (HfcSS has one)
Psych.--Yes 
Soc.Sri.-No (HfcSS)
Stat-Yes (grads only)
AMS-Yes 
Biomed E-NA 
E 8c Envir.Stud.-Yes
Chem E-Yes 
Civ E-NA 
Design Res.-Yes 
EE-Yes '
E & PP-Yes
Mech E-Dont know
MEMS-NA
Nuc. Sri Sc E-No (all grads)
Bio-Yes 
Chem-NA
Comp Sri-No (grads only)
Math-Yes (very active)
Physics-Yes
It was downright inspiring to see that so many depart
ments have SACs. But we wonder if every SACs poten
tial as a valuable liaison between students, faculty and 
administrators is being filled. Or are SACs merely effec
tive clerks, writing newsletters and stuffing envelopes 
instead of meeting with their department heads?
President Cyerts SAC, of which this papers editor is a 
member, has sailed through troubled waters. But it 
remains afloat, and Cyert has expresed his own concern 
that every department not only have a SAC, but have an 
effective SAC.
Case in point A very effective SAC at CMU has been 
found in the Electrical Engineering Department. A 
number of EE students are happy with the SACs effec
tiveness in opening communication channels between 
students and faculty.
Says Bill Hammersch lag, senior in charge of the EE 
SAC, "When I started, one thing I did not want was a lot 
of lofty goals where you couldnt find anything tangible 
"I said, lets identify a problem in the department, 
focus in on it, and do something about it. The EE SAC 
chose a goal of improving student-faculty communica
tion, and they came up with a few methods to achieve it 
Their first move was to conduct a mid-semester indepth course evaluation. They asked students about 
everything from lab TAs to homework loads.
The results of the evaluation were quite effective 
according to many EE students. A few erf the instructor? 
read the evaluations and adjusted their class homework 
assignments and teaching paces.
The EE SAC is now surveying its facultys attitudes 
about students, and the department. Theyve also set up 
suggestion boxes.
"Youve got to stay away from esoteric stuff, says 
Hammerschlag. You can get lost in nice high lofty 
goals. Slow and dirty does the job-it gets things done. 
If youre wondering what your departments SAC is 
doing, stop by your departments office and ask when 
the next meeting is and who is serving on it. The SAC 
isnt in the department to cover up problems, but to 
expose and treat them.
Let The Tartan know if your department has an 
ineffective or an effective SAC. Our article isnt finished 
yet. Call us at X2111 anytime.
It's Thanksgiving and Vodrey counts her blessings
By Catherine Stroud Vodrey
OK folks, this is the time of year when 
youre supposed to be really thankful for 
everything youve got. Rrright, some of you 
say. Come on. Theres got to be something/
youre thankful for. I know, I 
| know, with homework crashing 
down around your ears, increas
ing tuition and computers tak
ing over the world, whats there to be 
thankful for? Well, for starters . . .
Im thankful for my fingers and toes. 
Where would we be without them? You 
couldnt call anyone on a dial phone, you 
couldnt stir your yogurt with your index 
finger, and you couldnt play "Ten Little
Piggies. So, Im thankful for my fingers 
and toes.
Im thankful for Bach. Johann Sebastian 
Bach, to be precise. Im also thankful for 
Vivaldi and Scott Joplin and for my father, 
who sparked my love of music.
Speaking of my father, Im very thankful 
for my family. They are a neat bunch of 
people. Im very thankful for my mother, 
who talks to me like an adult and laughs at 
even my worst jokes. Im thankful for my 
father, who still calls me baby and who 
tells me, after Ive spent an hour getting 
ready for something special, that I look 
stunned  oh, I mean stunning." Im 
thankful for my brother and sister because
they put up with me.
Im thankful for the change of seasons. I 
would hate it if it was just sun, sun, sun or 
snow, snow, snow all the time. I like having 
hot summers and freezing winters.
Im thankful for cars and buses because 
they get you there faster. Im thankful for 
legs in case there arent any available cars or 
buses.
Im thankful for money. Crass, yes, but 
where would we be without it?
Im thankful for sharp pencils, ice cubes, 
warm socks and good teachers; Im thankful 
for days that make me want to screech at 
everyone in sight because they make me 
appreciate the terrific days more; Im thankWith true spirit some early X'mas gifts
By Doug Blair
I like Christmas a lot I really do. I like to 
give gifts and see peoples faces light up 
when I hit it right, and the forced smile 
when I totally miss the mark is funny 
? enough to erase my gaffe. I even 
like getting presents, but I like 
m giving better. And in that spirit, 
let me present a few early Christ
mas gifts in the form of some advice:
To Glenn O. Rickard III, (founder of the 
Lets make EVERYBODY live on campus 
movement): Who the hell do you think you 
are? My grades are my responsibility, not 
yours. If I want to flunk out of school in the 
presence ch- absence of my family, thats my 
choice to make. Its bad enough that fresh
men have to take Food Service contracts if 
they live on campus, but you want us all to 
spend every waking (and sleeping) hour 
here on campus? What gives you the right? I 
presume as well that, as a grad student, you 
have no such need for motivation? Not only 
are you a fool, but a hypocrite as well.
To John J. Roppo, (Graduate, the 
Richard Nixon school of Political Science),: 
John Pane may be an excellent man for the 
Student Senate. However, your endorse
ment does little for him. Why? Because all of 
us on campus do not have sieve-like memo
ries. Some of us remember your joint crea
tive effort with Mr. Holste regarding the 
Constitution of Senate. Please dont feel 
offended, Mr. Pane; its just that Mr. Roppos background in ethics leaves a little to be 
desaied, and not all of us have forgotten.
To Ralph Sherman, (currently undergo
ing treatment for repeated paranoid halluci
nations, coupled with mild delusions of 
grandeur); we float enough warheads with 
our submarine fleet to fry all of Russia. Our 
subs are virtually invulnerable. Therefore, a 
Russian strike against the U.S. or its allies 
would result in the annihilation of the 
USSR.
Unless some paranoid fool got control erf 
the Russian military machine, our ability to 
destroy one another keeps the balance of 
power safe, barring accidents. I dont like the 
idea of accidents involving nuclear arms. 
The odds of having an accident when there 
are no nuc lear weapons is amazingly small.
The first step to removing weaponry of 
this type is to stop building more. A freeze. 
And when we finally obtain an accurate 
means of measuring the Soviets nuclear 
capability, I want to get rid of the damn 
things. As things stand, under the regime 
you so fervendy support, Ralph, we could 
all die right now. Yes, now. Even as your 
pudgy litde eyes crawl across this print. 
Upsetting, isnt it? Then why support 
nuclear growth? (You should read The 
Fountainhead, by Ayn Rand. I think Elsie 
Toohey would be your hero.)
To Catherine Stroud Vodrey, (Ms. Maud
lin, 1982); I am aware of the fact that I abuse 
The Tartan as much as anyone else; this is a 
newspaper, not a billboard of opinion. 
However, I just felt it necessary to inform 
you of your very similar status. I gain very 
little from your insight into growing up,
waking up, or (forthcoming article, I pre
sume), throwing up. Not that what I write is 
any better; you irritate through pointless
ness and inanity, and I have my lack of 
respect for people and my specious argu
mentation to support me. I just wanted to 
make sure that you know your (our) place.
To Eric Patterson, (awarded the Mr. 
Naive 1982 trophy in a joint ceremony with 
Ms. Maudlin, above); most commercial 
movies play with the audiences emotions. 
The fact that you noticed it in Spielbergs 
work doesnt mean that nobody else does it, 
just that you didnt notice it. That is the 
hallmark of a great movie, such as Citizen 
Kane. Spielbergs error in overusing his 
cues didnt hurt E.T.s box office, to be 
sure.
And why should it? By definition, a com
mercial movie is intended to make money; 
all of Spielbergs work has that as a common 
goal. Your ability to pick the cues out of 
continued on page 11Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the top of page two, and are the 
official opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Columns are the opinions of individual authors who 
are usually on The Tartan staff, but the opinions are 
not necessarily those of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Letters to the editor are opinions of individual authors 
who are usually members of the University commun
ity. A letter intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone number for 
verification. Names will be withheld upon request. 
The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter.
ful for phone calls and letters and unex
pected surprises; Im thankful for James 
Bond movies and $1.00 tickets; Im thankful 
for the speed with which Friday arrives; Im 
thankful for the times I walk past the Fine 
Arts building to hear someone with an 
exquisite voice singing an aria; Im thankful 
for the times when I go to the quiet study 
floor of Hunt Library and it really IS quiet.
Im thankful for a roommate who stays ? 
up with me for some of the best late-night I 
talks ever; Im thankful for a boyfriend who 
thinks Im very strange and loves me 
anyway.
Im thankful for a newspaper that prints 
what Im thankful for.
Catherine Stroud Vodrey is a sophomore 
majoring in creative writing and is a colum
nist for The Tartan.
Thelrtm
Editor in Chief................................Alice Alfonsi
Managing Editor...........................Vince Guirito
Business Manager.........................Louise Crocoll
News Editor..................................Monica Gellio
Features Editor............................... Geof Becker
Entertainment Editor.........................Sue Petrie
Sports Editor.................................Jeff Bergman
Photography Editor.....................John Stilwell
Production Manager.............Carolyn Speran
Ad Manager...................................Bonnie Topi
Typesetting Manager.......................Patti Cariisk
Contributing Editor.....................Gregg Bossier
Associate News Editor.............Joanne Savinell
Assoc. Features Editor.............Pauline Kramer
Associate Photo Editor....................Gene Yonish
Asst Opinion Editor...........................Peter Bain
Asst Ent Editor...........................John Cantine
Asst Sports Editor............................Ric Medrow
Asst Business Mgr........................Kathy Wa**
Production Staff: Margaret Eissler, Andi^ 
Ghali, Monica Safrin, and Pauline Wen.
Copyright  1982 by The Tartan. The Editorial Boa^ 
reserves the right to withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial Off*** 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Ski bo 
(412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone. (412) 578-2113. Ma1* 
address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh PA 1^21 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All

---------------------------------------------------

November 23, 1982The TertenPage 3
Letters
Image problem is no excuse
Editor
Racism is not a rational belief.
Over the course of this semester there have 
been a good number of letters addressing the 
matter of racism within the fraternity system 
at CMU. Some have been direct, others indi
rect. However one fraternity has been impli
cated time and time again, the oft maligned 
brothers of ATO.
ATO is correct in its opinion that its 
image has, to some degree, been affected by 
its past. After all, my first encounter with the 
superlative "nigger occurred as I walked 
down Morewood after crossing Forbes Ave. 
ATO may claim, and perhaps righdy so, 
that just because the guy who said it was 
sitting on their courtyard wall wearing 
ATO paraphernalia, he may not have been 
a member of their fraternity. And to the 
extent that I did not ask him for such identi
fication, Id have no choice but to agree.
Since then I have read that they have made 
considerable progress over the past two 
years. I dont know what that means, but I 
accept that as a possibility. There was an 
extreme need for improvement, therefore a 
:onsiderable amount erf progress could have 
rone unnoticed.
All I ask of the brothers erf ATO is to be 
ealistic with themselves. Its not just an 
mage problem, and the sooner that fact is 
owledged publicly the quicker the
lew nukes course
itor
In the November issue erf The Tartan 
iph Sherman discusses the issue erf the 
^uclear freeze. Hie first point he makes is 
it the public should not be consulted cm 
le issues erf nuclear weapons because erf the 
stence of classified secrets. Presumably all 
dll be well if the issue is left in the hands erf 
le experts.
| Herbert York, the first head of the Liverore atomic bomb laboratory and the chief 
ientist of the Pentagon under Eisenhower 
id Kennedy wrote an important book 
illed The Race to Oblivion. He reveals 
I lere the stupidity and the dangerous 
1 lethods of the experts in reaching decisions 
bout weapons. He concludes if we are to 
void oblivion then all of us, not just the 
Barrent group of experts and technicians,
I tust involve ourselves in creating the poli es and making the decisions necessary to 
so.d
image will change.
I know quite a few of the brothers of 
ATO. I dont know any racist brothers, and 
logically, rationally, I would assume that to 
be a function of my race. Yet racism is not, 
and never has been a rational belief. To 
surmise that ATO is not at all racist merely 
because they have the most blacks is simply 
ridiculous. Just as ridiculous is the claim 
that all erf ATO is prejudiced.
One common offshoot of addressing rum
ors and false accusations are the responses, 
which often serve to amplify the original 
rumors. That is not my intent here. I only 
wish to make ATO aware of the fact that 
those of us victimized by racism are not buy
ing the misinformed image alibi.
If, as you say, no one on campus knows 
the ATOs then perhaps you should investi
gate why that is. And concludingly, I sin
cerely hope you get as fair a shake as 
judicially possible, because Id hate to see the 
ramifications of an unfair decision.
Thank you.
Marc James 
Coordinator, SPIRIT
"%EA3'/'? OF COURSE THEy'RE REA&y., 
..THEy'RE PROFE^L3iOHAL5"
Who's in charge of CMU student affairs?
Editor:
Senate
Many of the new senators, as well as the 
constituencies which elected them, will be 
surprised to find out whos in charge of 
student affairs at CMU. In theory, Senate is 
responsible for student input into the way 
the university is run. In addition, Senate 
decides which student organizations should 
function on campus. In fact, Senate really 
cannot do either. The power to control stu
dent affairs rests in two places.
The first, not surprisingly, is with the 
school administration in Warner Hall and 
Skibo. The second set of powers that be
rests in an unorganized group of students 
who work out of the student organization 
offices in Skibo. I have dubbed these stu
dents the corridor people.
In the four years that I have been observ
ing Senate, I regret to say that there have 
been few times when that organization was 
effective in representing the students in the 
administration of CMU. Im not sure that 
student governments on other campuses are 
effective either because all share the same 
problems. At least representation is fair 
based on the system of electing through the 
academic colleges.
The problem with Senate, as with most
Senior fuming at decision
While classified information is not 
I eeded, every citizen should study the nature
 ' nuclear weapons and the history of the 
rms race. As Mr. Shermans article so bril-i
ntly illustrates, spontaneous naivete is 
t sufficient.
Because I believe the threat of nuclear war 
he most important issue facing each of us, 
J am devoting an entire course (listed in 
physics as 33-516 and in History as 79-346) 
|) the subject of the Nuclear Era. The course
11 include a variety of readings, movies, 
scussions, and guest experts. I welcome 
terested students from any department.
Lincoln Wolfenstein 
University Professor
Editor
It is ironic that Camegie-Mellon can con
tract with IBM to provide the educational 
and computational system of the future and 
at the same time ignore its undergraduate 
computer science people of the present. I am 
referring to the Computer Science department 
ments decision (mistake?) not to offer 15- 
312 next term. In most peoples case, this 
just gets in the way. But in my case, this 
decision is going to delay my graduation 
beyond the extra term that I am already 
forced to stay.
A group of students from this terms 15- 
212 class approached Dr. McDermott, 
apparendy the person behind the decision; 
about why the course wasnt being offered. 
Dr. McDermott said that there was a lack of 
faculty to teach the course, and that he had 
probably made a mistake. Also, he said that 
the math department was partly at fault 
because they require too many Comp. Sri. 
courses. Its right about here that I get really 
angry. What do you mean, mistake? Your 
mistake is going to cost me at least an extra 
semester and who knows how much money!
And whats this about the math depart
ment5 Who cares what they require? Youve 
got a commitment to the students that trancends any requirements of any department. 
This commitment, as formalized in the 
course catalog, is to provide the course 15- 
312 each term so that students who have 
entered into ANY university program can, 
by fulfilling their duties as students, GRAD
UATE! I have done what I have been 
advised to do, paid my tuition, maintained a 
+2.0 Q.P.A. and I expect and demand what 
the University promised in return!
I guess that in the past four years there 
have been things like this happen that didnt 
bother me as much. But now, things are 
much more serious. I am (was?) close 
enough to getting out of this poor mans 
M.I.T. that I can taste it. The university has 
challenged me to graduate and I now chal
lenge it to fulfil its commitment to me. I 
hesitate to say, OR ELSE! but remember, a
desperate man does many things he 
wouldnt ordinarily do.
Peter J. Houston 
Sr. Mathregetarian requests a meatless soup
n ^ I reach the bottom of my bowl at SalVs Hlus, I suddenly notice why my Navy 
M'an Soup tasted so strange  MEATi
 *nS a member of the vegetarian society I
 is horror stricken to notice that I had just
 sumed the dreaded redmeat. Years resHuned from meat only to be broken by a 
Bsastrous bowl of Navy Bean Soup spiked 
Mlh bacon bits.
Now, I dont want to bring up the issues 
explaining why I am a vege, I just wish that 
the schools food service could show us vege
tarians a little respect and cater to our few 
needs.
It is true that Kiltie Cafe offers vegetarian 
meals on occasion, but couldnt Salads 
please inform us of any animals being 
spared for a pot of soup? Even the vegetable 
soup is made from beefstock.
Winter is approaching fast and there is no 
better remedy for a chilly throat than a good 
old hot bowl of soup. Why should I be 
deprived of medicine because of a personal 
commitment? If I wanted a restricted diet, 
Id ask for one. All Im requesting is for 
Salads and/or Kiltie to please prepare a spe
cial vegetarian soup or please post whether 
one is or not.
Rowshanak Hashemiyoon
student governments, is that most senators 
have not learned to do their job effectively. 
This is not a put down to those who run for 
Senate. Most candidates are sincere in their 
desire to help the students in their college. 
The problem is that unlike most organiza
tions, a newly-elected senator is thrust 
immediately into a position erf large respon
sibility. These representatives have to 
undergo a period of on-the-job-training.
This is to say that they have not worked 
their way up from the bottom to their posi
tions. Such an ascension allows one to 
become acquainted with the responsibilities 
that the organization has and the rules it 
operates under. Senators only learn by being 
senators. This means that for some period of 
rime after election (typically a year), most of 
our representatives are unfamiliar with 
what they can do, and so they dont do 
anything.
By the time most senators are aware erf 
what power they have, they will have 
resigned for a variety of reasons. Due to its 
disjointed nature, there seems litde loyalty 
to Senate as an organization. This makes for 
an inherendy weak group. What litde 
respect members of campus organizations 
have for Senate is dissipated by the arbitrari
ness that individual senators display in the 
use of their power. I have seen numerous 
instances erf this.
For example, I once wrote a satire in a 
column criticizing actions Senate had taken. 
After reading this opinion, a senator on 
continued on page 4Mel responds
Editor
Dear Debbie,
You are entitled to your own astonishing 
opinions of the Ghost Sonata Production, 
contradictory and incoherent as they are. 
For your information, David Merrick is not 
coming to see The Ghost Sonata, however, 
Alexander Cohen and the Joseph Papp 
office are.
Your reportage of The New Play Festival 
is misinformed and scandalously unre
searched. If you intend to go into journalism 
as a professional, you will have to work a 
little harder than this.
Mel Shapiro 
Head, Drama Department
The Tartan must apologize for not clearly 
marking the play festival article as 
opinion.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanNovember 23, 1982
More LettersJust where and how do the students fit in. Dr. Cyert?
Editor
I know that it is none of my business. I 
understand that it is among none of my 
affairs. I realize that it is out of order for me 
to question the behavior of CMUs adminis
tration (besides, my mothers ankles would 
burst if I were rejected by Harvard Law 
School for having a history of activities 
which are contrary' to the principles of this 
institution). But my mood ring turns black, 
nevertheless, when the leaders of this author
itarian oligarchy reach decisions without 
considering the opinions of those whom 
their decisions direcdy affect: the students.
Granted, the administration has done a 
fine job of maintaining our schools reputa
tion and has done so without running the 
budget into the red  lets face it, Richard 
Cyert and Fred Rogers have done a remarka
ble job of keeping CMU financially afloat 
while so many other colleges have suc
cumbed to the gravity of the economic abyss. 
However, it is the means by which the 
administrators choose to affect decisions 
that has disallowed the praise that they are 
due.
It was Rousseau who suggested that a 
society is ruled by a relatively few members 
and, as members of that society, rulers are 
subject to the same set of rules and standards 
as are all other citizens. In the foreword of 
the 1981-82 Student Handbook, Richard 
Cyert and Earle Swank (who was then the 
Dean of Student Affairs) proposed that the 
standard erf willingness to place the good of 
the community above the good of the self 
be shared by all members of the CMU 
community.
But who should determine what is the 
good of the community? Even Rousseau 
(who, by the way, was not educated at CMU) 
would maintain that it is ultimately the 
community which decides what is in its best 
interest and it is not up to the decision erf a 
select few.
Assuming that the administration is a 
part of the CMU community and is not the 
whole, then it follows that the administra
tion should enjoy only a part of the decision 
and not the whole. In that students comprise 
the majority of this academic community, it 
seems only fair that we should enjoy the 
major portion of the decision-making 
power.
No paternalistic argument will cause us
to relinquish our rights to having a part in 
the decision-making process for no one hon
estly believes that Uncle Richie is an allpowerful clear thinker who can envisage 
what is truly in the students best interests. 
No one likes to be told what to do; even Guy 
DeLuca, the owner of Forward Lanes, lets 
you choose the bowling ball that you feel 
will enhance your score the most. But then 
again, comparison is an ineffective argu
ment  maybe I should have compared 
Guys lanes to Boston Bowl in Cambridge 
because they share the belief that a bowling 
alleys reputation depends upon the quality 
(and price) of the balls that it provides.
I would like to express my disapproval to 
Dr. Cyert for using more muscle and more
brute tacdcs in affecting the recent decisions 
on a tuition increase and the computer issue 
than Rocky and Franco ever used on the 
gridiron. Perhaps his tactics were in perfect 
accordance with administration policy, but 
I am not convinced that they are in the 
students best interests. Administration pol
icy seems to be the key issue here, for it seems 
that administration policies preclude the 
consideration of student opinions in affect
ing decisions.
The root of the problem stems from a 
contradiction between the students and the 
administrations philosophies about the 
academic community. Do you, Dr. Cyert, 
hold the view that the administration is 
above the CMU community and that the
administration is the sole possessor 0[ 
decision-making power? Or do you agree 
with what I believe is the students camp 
that the administration is a part of the academie community and that the administra 
tion possesses a portion of decision-making 
power?
I am sincerely curious as to what status 
the administration and the board feel that 
the administration possesses and I believe 
that I am speaking on the behalf of the 
majority of the CMU student body in saying 
that the CMU community would like a 
reply.
Ron Weikers 
PP&M/Philosophy 84
ATO fraternity incident letter incorrect
Editor:
This is being written as a partial response 
to the letter written by the ultra-mature 
Rhonda Maps tone and as a response to The 
Tartans unfair treatment of fraternities, 
particularly Alpha Tau Omega, as a whole.
Contrary to Miss Maps tones biased 
beliefs and vulgar language, the five men
tally deranged ATO frat boys she menti
oned in her letter are not uncaring or 
inconsiderate s. Sorry Rhonda, maybe 
your boyfriend never got a bid from ATO, 
and this is your way of getting back at them, 
but we do know the individuals involved, 
obviously a lot better than you do. Not only
are these guys brothers  in the true sense of 
the word  to the other members of the 
house, but they have been big brothers to 
us and we couldnt have asked for better. 
(Also, they certainly deserve to be com
mended for managing to maintain them
selves in the C.I.T. program in a state of 
mental derangement!)
We also suggest that you get your facts 
straight before so maliciously reporting 
them  in case your roommate forgot to tell 
you that she received individual verbal apol
ogies from all involved persons, maybe she 
can show you the letter of apology that was
Influence of deans good
continued from page 3
Finance committee made this threat to me: 
Dont you ever come before Finance asking 
for anything (for organizations you are in) 
because you wont get it.
In this kind of atmosphere of politics and 
lack of knowledge, Senate through its ex
officio officers, Dean Walter and Dean Cox. 
In practice, few senators really know what is 
happening with student organizations. 
They thus defer to the Deans opinins as to 
how they should vote.
Again, this has happened in my presence 
many times but the point was brought 
home at a Finance committee hearing where 
the senators were going to vote against fund
ing an organization. At the last moment,HDMDUALRECOGNITION
In the age of information technology, a company whose sales of $1.7 billion annually and whose products and components extend from data acquisition and information processing through data communication to voice, video and graphic communication  is making individual recognition a 
reality for their new graduates.
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
December 7th and 8th
Electrical, Civil, Industrial and Mechanical Engineering, Applied Mathematics and Computer 
Science Majors 
Make arrangements at the Placement Office.
33 HARRIS
An Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F/H/V
Dean Coxs opinion was mentioned and the 
committee voted to continue funding based 
on her recommendation.
At the present time, the Deans influence 
on Senate is quite preferable to the situation 
where they arent there. Unlike senators, 
they deal with the campus organizations on 
a day-to-day basis and are thus aware of 
what is happening in them. Because theyll 
be here when we graduate, they add consis
tency to an otherwise inconsistent 
oiganization.
Finally, the Deans give a fair and impar
tial opinion based on their experiences. I 
admire and respect their opinions. The trou
ble, erf course, lies in the future when those 
filling Dean Walters and Coxs posiitons 
may not be as fair and impartial.
The other Guys 
The most influential group erf students 
on this campus are not Student Senate, but 
rather the corridor people. These students 
continued on page 5
also sent And until you get your degree i 
psychology, please refrain from making personality judgements on others.
Our brothers apologized because they 
were truly sorry that someone had been hurt 
by them, and cared very much that she knew 
that they were upset over the accident. Don' 
get us wrong, we are sorry that the incident 
happened to your roommate (although you 
seem to be a lot more upset about this than 
she is), but we do think that you have gon^ 
quite a bit overboard in your reaction  it 
certainly would have taken quite a hefty 
piece of fruit for all six to have been 
involved.
Thank you, Tartan. We realize the con 
tent of your publication is not necessarily 
the opinion of the editorial staff, but dont 
you think weve had enough? The Tartan 
has given the CMU community enough 
articles to fully illustrate an I Hate Fraterni
ties and Why scrapbook, especially starring 
a chosen few.
It wouldnt do us much good to state 
incidents which have occurred in other 
houses which you have obviously chosen to 
ignore. The point has been made tha 
maybe no organizations on this campus are 
perfect, but we dont need or deserve this 
condemnation any more.
You have hurt our brothers and 
houses name enough  why dont you give 
us a chance to amend  for a change?
The Little Sisters a 
Alpha Tau Omeg
Ladies, although your loyalty is unques 
tionable, your charges are unwarranted. W 
print all opinion. It was not The Tartar 
which gave the CMU community article 
The CMU community wrote its own lettfl 
and gave them to us to print.Edito
WE RENT TYPEWRITERS
emu bockstore
IN BAKER HALL

---------------------------------------------------

November 23, 1982The TartanPage 5
Great Moments in the history of hair
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Btech. a 
Stone Age plumber, discovers a 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
dram on a routine aqueduct re 
pair job. He calls the substance 
hair
"But we always thought this 
stuff was feathers'', insists Kneg, 
his helper.
"Dummy", counters Blech. "If 
this was feathers, we'd be able to
fly like those pteradactyls".
With the discovery of hair, pluck
ing salons disappear. Philoso
phers have something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with. No 
appointments required. For gals 
and guys.
PRECISIONHAIRCUT COLOR(ANY LENGTH)
$12.00(WASH-CUT-BLOW STYLE)
NOAPPOINTMENT
PERMS FOR ALL STYLES 
$25.00
CJtrCCJITMRS.
Mon., Tues., Wed. 10-7 
Thurs., Fri. 10-9 
Sal. 9-6687-3500
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PRECEOM H^m/TTWS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
Sherman corrects previous misconceptions
By Ralph M. Sherman
In last weeks issue of The Tartan, a Pitt 
graduate student named Gregory Grossman 
wrote a letter critical of my prior article 
against the nuclear freeze. Amongst the var
ious things he wrote that I found 
objectionable, was his comment
JsT of Anyway, why shouldnt we 
hole up in the family shelter 
whilst Armageddon arrives? ... Too bad 
neutrons penetrate eight feet of reinforced 
concrete. In his otherwise uninspiring letter 
he has inspired me to write this column on 
Civil Defense, so that the gross misunder
standings and sad misconceptions that 
obviously he holds can be eradicated in 
others.
In this regard, I would like to express my 
thanks to Mr. Russell Clanahan, a Public 
Information Officer for the Federal Emer
gency Management Agency, who provided 
me with much useful material and time to 
interview him for this column.
First let me deal with Mr. Grossmans 
quotation, which Mr. Clanahan dismissed 
as an apples and oranges comparison. 
There are three main effects that follow a 
nuclear ground-burst. There is the fire, the 
blast, and the neutron flux.
This wave of neutrons, whose radius is 
considerably smaller than those of the fire 
and blast, is of course not healthy to be
exposed to. But, if you were close enough for 
the neutron flux to kill you, the fire and 
blast would have gotten you first  as Mr. 
Clanahan pointed out, there are no urban 
blast shelters, but fallout shelters.
Further, the fallout shelters are only 
meant to protect inhabitants from fallout 
churned up by a groundblast (there is none 
in an airburst) and not from the fire or blast.
The controversy surrounding Civil 
Defense focuses on several items. There is 
some question as to both its need, expense
and efficacy. Some even argue it would actu
ally ancourage a brazen leader to risk 
nuclear brinksmanship. I will deal with all 
these issues point by point.
The Federal Emergency Management 
Agency has the responsibility for planning 
to evacuate citizens from potential manmade and natural disasters  be it a nuclear 
attack or a train derailment or a flood.
This involves moving exposed urban 
populations to a more rural setting, as well 
as sharing with states and local governments
the upkeep erf necessary materials for imple
menting such evacuations. If there were no 
such planning, then the recent derailment of 
a train with toxic materials near New 
Orleans recently could have proven more 
dangerous, as could a leak at a nuclear 
power plant.
It is hard to argue against some form erf 
planning; in a Gallup poll, 59% of those 
asked disapproved erf ending the civil 
defense program, and only 18% approved.
continued on page 8
Student examines "corridor people
continued from page 4
work out of the Skibo corridor which runs 
from the Art Store to WRCT, and their 
influence is subde.
They are actively involved in at least one 
(usually more) student organization and 
work long enough hours in the corridor to 
become aware of affairs in the other student 
organizations through contact with other 
corridor people. One does not necessarily 
have to be head of an oiganization to be z. 
corridor person; one simply has to be there.
Here are some observations on how the 
corridor people exert their influence. The 
few senators who know how to do their job 
are, not surprisingly, corridor people. They
Over 200 years ago in America, the pilgrims were starving because they didnt know how to farm in America. The Indians were generous and shared a feast with them  the first Thanksgiving.
This space donated by The Tartan.
Does Anyone
actively communicate with other campus 
groups. This awareness makes the senators 
more influential and gains them support in 
the organizations.
One example of a corridor person is stu
dent government president Nate Solano. He 
is always available to talk to about campus 
problems. His involvement with The Tar
tan gives him contact with other organiza
tions and students, and vice-verse. It is not 
surprising then that he was effectively able 
to lead the tuition protest rally with genuine 
support from the student body.
The largest group of corridor people is 
concentrated at The Tartan due to the 
nature of that organization. It is essential 
that the paper stay in touch with the pulse of 
the student body; otherwise, it would be as 
ineffective as Senate. It is a traditional organ
ization where editors start out as writers and 
slowly learn the rules they have to operate 
under.
This leads to a close-knit group of people 
who know their job and who can influence 
strongly the campus community. A couple 
of years ago, Senate voted not to take a stand 
on the draft issue. An editorial the next week
in The Tartan packed the Senate chamber 
with students and forced them to vote 
against the principle of a mandatory draft.
One organization that has little influence 
in the running of student affairs is the Uni
ted Fraternal Organization (UFO). Much of 
their lack of influence can be traced to their 
lack of contact with the corridor people. In 
previous years, their office was seldom open 
to the outside public. It is not surprising that 
fraternities feel they lack influence outside 
the quadrangle. They also lade the contact 
with other organizations which would gain 
them contact For instance, there would be 
little reason for The Tartan to take up their 
cause in editorials when they dont know 
them.
While student Senate supposedly repres
ents student input into the campus com
munity, they really are unable to due to 
structural weaknesses. Instead, Senates 
function is taken over by a group of admin
istration officials and corridor people who 
are in touch with the campus community in 
general. I hope that the new senators will 
also plan to keep in touch.
Aaron Tanzer
Overseas, millions like this youngster are hungry.
This is a grim reality in today's world. Thousands of these children die each day 
and countless others are physically and mentally impaired because they lack 
adequate nourishment. For millions like this child, life is dark and hopeless 
without outside aid.
Won't you help? Each dollar you send to CARE will give a serving of 
nutritious food to 50 hungry children.
. . hunger hurts, and it hurts children hardest.
--------------------------------------------------------------1
CARE, 400 5th AVE.
PITTSBURGH, PA. 15219
Here is my $--------------------
Name ,:---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Address -------------------------------------------------------------------------
City__________ . State ------------------ Zip ------------------
Checks made payable to CARE are tax deductible ,
_________________________I
Please care .

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6Tha TartanNovember 23, 1982
Seminar to be held on automating factories
A week-long seminar on technological 
advances toward establishing a fullyautomated factory will be offered at CMU 
December 6-10.
Sponsored by Mellon Institutes Post Col
lege Professional Education (PCPE), the 
seminar is designed to address advances is
facturing systems, robotic programming 
languages, process applications and eco
nomic and human factors.
Participants will gain an understanding 
of robot architecture, applications, system 
design, cost benefit analysis, future develop
ments and the implication on the work
process modeling, fully-integrated manu- force.
Bio gets fermentation lab
A fermentation facility that will serve 
biology researchers at CMU and the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh, as well as industrial bio
technology researchers in the Greater 
Pittsburgh area, was dedicated Friday, 
November 19.
The facility, which houses a 28-liter and a 
250-liter fermenter for growing large quanti
ties of microorganisms (bacteria or yeast), 
was established through a $120,000 biologi
cal instrumentation grant from the 
National Science Foundation, awarded 
jointly to CMU and Pitt Additional funds 
for equipment and space renovations came 
from the two schools, for a total cost erf
$300,000.
Large-scale fermentation plays an increas
ingly important role in both the academic * 
world and industry. The fermentation facil
ity can produce large cell masses of special
ized microbes for basic biological research 
studies and for development of new biotech
nology products. Genetic engineering 
(recombinant DNA technology) is fre
quently used to develop tailored microor
ganisms to produce specific products for
industry. One such application of fermenta
tion technology was the announcement by 
Eli Lilly Co. erf the drug humulin, human 
insulin for treating diabetes.
Principal lecturers at the seminar will be 
Friedrich B. Prinz and Paul Wright, both 
assistant professors in CMUs mechanical
engineering department and members of 
the universitys Robotics Instiute.
Prinz, whose work is concerned with 
robotic arc welding and the use of sensors for
automatic seam tracking, is a member of the 
American Welding Society and Robotics 
International of the Society of Manufactur
ing Engineers. Wright is project manager
for the Robotics Institutes Factory of the 
Future design for the Westinghouse Corp. 
This work is principally concerned with the 
implementation of flexible manufacturing 
cells, adaptive control and the use of indus
trial robots.
The seminar is directed toward technical 
managers, engineers and consultants whose 
work involves the planning or conduct of 
manufacturing processes and materials han
dling. For more information, call the PCPE 
office at x2207.
Does aid neglect poor?
(CPS)-Financial aid, designed to make col
leges more accessible, hasnt really opened 
campus gates to poor students, a paper deli
vered to an educational conference in Virgi
nia last week says.
The paper, prepared by University of 
Wisconsin Professor Lee Hansen, measured 
enrollment rates of poor, middle-class and 
upper-class students. Hansen found that 
during the seventies enrollment of poor 
black students stayed the same despite 
increasing student aid programs.
Are
Competitive ?
Did you major in EE, ChE, CS, Physics, 
Material Science, Metallurgy or 
Industrial Engineering?
We challenge you to see 
if you can answer YES 
to all of the questions below:
 Are you inquisitive and creative?
 Are you an exceptional person?
 Do you plan to be the best at what 
you do?
 Do you want your accomplishments 
and performance to be quickly rec
ognized?
 Would you enjoy a fast-paced 
environment?
 Would you enjoy having a 
direct line of communication to 
management?
If you can, you are the type of individual 
we seek! We are the place" for excep
tionally talented persons. We hire only 
the best; and with one of the most out
standing in-house training programs in 
the industry, give you a head start in an 
entrepreneurial working atmosphere 
thats second to none, and one that will 
complement your abilities. Our Management-by-Objectives program wont allow 
you to get lost.
You'll find all the above at the Microelec
tronics Division of General Instrument, a 
Fortune 500 company that is one of the 
pioneers of MOS integrated circuit tech
nology. We are first in the production of 
Read-Only Memories; a leader in NonVolatile Memories technology; a volume 
supplier of 8-Bit Microcomputers; a 
recognized expert in Video Technology; 
a supplier of cost-effective Speech Syn
thesis devices and a major supplier to Telecommunications networks in 15 
countries. There are exciting and out
standing opportunities at both our 
Chandler, Arizona and Hicksville, Long 
Island, New York facilities.
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS Wednesday, DECEMBER 1
Check your Placement Office for details.
Should you be unable to see us on that date, please 
send resume to: G. E. Hampden, General Instrument Corporation, 
600 W. John Street, Hicksville, NY 11802.
An equal opportunity employer, m/f/h.
GENERALINSTRUMENT
Enrollment of affluent students of all 
colors rose, while enrollment of white stu
dents of all other classes fell during the 
decade.
It is not clear that youth from lowerincome families were pulled into college 
relative to students from higher income fam
ilies, Hansen wrote in his study 
conclusions.
He added there is no clear cut effect of 
student aid on enrollment, except that it 
reduces the financial burden on parents 
and students.Berg named
Dr. Daniel Berg, provost at CMU, has 
been appointed to the Manufacturing Stu
dies Board of the National Research Coun
cils Commission on Engineering and 
Technical Systems.
Berg, CMUs provost for science and tech
nology, was appointed to a three-year term 
by H. Guyford Stever, chairman of the Com
mission on Engineering and Technical 
Systems.
The Manufacturing Studies Board stu
dies national policy issues regarding all 
aspects of manufacturing and provides a 
forum for the discussion of these issues.
GYNCHECK-UPS
ABORTIONSERVICES
FREEPREGNANCY TESTS
CONFIDENTIAL COUNSELING
Women's Health 
Services625 STANWIX ST 
DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
(412) 562-1900
We help you 
compete.
op
|!a charismatic 
sprayer meetin 
every Friday 
night at 8 p.m. 
at Mellon 
Institute 
Bellefield Ave. 
(Across from 
Heinz Chapel) 
Oakland, Pa. 
call Rege for 
information: 
262-3950.

---------------------------------------------------

November 23, 1982The TartanPage 7
Chigier gets William Brown Professorship
continued from page 1
and the Institute of Fuels LubbockSambrook Award (1968 and 1975). He has 
the distinction of being listed in Whos Who 
in: the World, the East, Aviation, Energy 
and Nuclear Sciences; Dictionary of Interna
tional Biography and Men of Achievement.
Chigiers first book, Combustion Aerody
namics (1972) was co-authored with Profes
sor John Beer of Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology and subsequently translatedGarfield wins eye contest
Delta Gamma sorority sponsored their 
annual philanthropy for the Guild for the 
Blind two weeks ago.
The Beautiful Eyes contest entailed 
having several pairs of eyes photographed 
and displayed for the week in the Gray Mat
ter in Skibo, subject to the monetary vote of 
passers-by. The contest was open to all 
Carnegie-Mellon students.
A young, stuffed, lash-less Garfield won
first place with $19.54 in his cash box. Yousif Shamoo entered the cats eyes, certain a
victory was in sight. Heather Newton, repre
sentative of Pi Lambda Phi, captured
second place, followed by Nancy Baird, a 
design student, who came in third.
Ninety dollars was raised for the Guild for 
the Blind and Garfield was officially pro
claimed the best looker on campus.
into Japanese (1976). His textbook, Energy, 
Combustion, and Environment was pub
lished in 1981. He is the editor of several
books including Progress in Energy and 
Combustion Science Volumes 1-6 (1976-
1981), Energy and Combustion Science 
(1979) and Collective Phenomena (1975).
He is the author of over 100 papers includ
ing an article in Scientific American (1974)
on Aircraft Wake Turbulence.
Since the death of 3rown on July 16,1978, 
his wife, Janice Brown, has remained in
contact with the University as a close friend. 
Arthur T. Murphy, former Head of the
Mechanical Engineering Department, was 
the first recipient of the William J. Brown
Professorship of Mechanical Engineering 
for 1978-1980.Family of professor donates to collection
Garfield was the winner of the Delta Gamma Beautiful Eyes contest. He won $1934.
By MONICA J. CELLIO
Tartan News Editor
Last Friday Mildred Meyers and June Bel
kin, the daughters of retired professor A. 
Fred Sochatoff, presented H&SS Dean Pat 
Crecine with $1000 for a literature 
collection.
CMU established the Collection in Classi
cal Literature and Rhetoric in Sochatoffs 
honor. It brings his career full circle, Mey
ers said, from the classics back to the clas
sics. Sochatoff began his career in the 
classics and later switched to drama and 
Shakespeare.
Meyers, Belkin, and their mother, Socha
toffs wife, made the donation without tell
ing Sochatoff. Hes always shied away 
from ceremonial occasions, Meyers said. 
The three were determined to do something, 
however, To mark my dads retirement 
from regular teaching and keep his name 
alive at CMU. She added, He may forgive
us for this.
According to Meyers, Sochatoff received 
his usual very high scores and comments 
on the A Phi O course evaluations last
spring despite the strain he was under. 
Theres no doubt about the affection that 
Fred Sochatoffs CMU students have had for 
him and he for them, Meyers said. The 
entire family has been involved with CMU 
in some way, she added; Its because we feel 
so much a part of CMU that we, as a family, 
want to honor my father by contributing to 
the fund that CMU set up to honor him. 
Sochatoff has worked with Professor 
Richard Enos to select the works for the 
collection and has even donated some of his 
own materials. The coming of Richard 
Young, Richard Enos, and the rhetoric pro
gram a few years ago means that now there 
is an active interest in the classics, Meyers 
said.
FREETape Recorded Legal or Medical Information
281-4664
The first issue of Dossier is here.
If you were left out of this issue, dont despair! Dossier will be back in January, and well be looking for stories, poems, creative essays, and black-and-white artwork. Well also want to see some new staff members. So keep your eyes open for our ads in January.And meanwhile:CREATE!
You cant submit something 
that you havent done!
THE SECONDS OF STUDENT SENATE
16 November 1982
STUDENT SENATE: A place where they take the minutes and 
consume the hours.
This week, the Student Senate of Camegie-Mellon University, 
meeting in the Highlander Room of Skibo, met and took action, for 
you the students and activities-fee paying members of the student 
government. Several members of the Student Senate are going to be 
attending a meeting-convendon of the American Association of 
University Students, in Princeton, New Jersey, hoping to further 
their ability to serve CMU. As well, the Senate voted to pass a 
Constitutional Amendment, that creates and empowers an Assist
ant to the Treasurer, (see last week, Seconds) Hopefully, this will 
prevent student organizations from accidentally going into deficitlevel spending and ease the myriad responsibilities of the Treasurer. 
A subsidy of $4960.00 for Spring Carnival was approved, as was the 
recognition of the Asian Students Organization as a non-funded 
organization.
Mr. Oscar Mayer was thanked for his assistance to Student Senate, 
and it was pointed out that the list of Ex-Offido officers of Senate 
did not officially include the Treasurer. For your information, these 
officers include the Treasurer, Mark Caine, Dean Cox, Dean Walter, 
The GSO representative, Charlie Krafft, SDC President, Mark Marsella, UFO representative, Gina Fleitman (pronounced fleetman) 
and Student Government President, Nate Solano. These officers 
officially sit on Senate, and have votes on Senate matters. They 
direcdy affect you and indirecdy represent all students. Aside from 
this, it was announced that Mark Marsella is having a birthday (to 
you Tartan readers, last Thursday,) and was wished a very merry 
one indeed. (Funded by your Activities fee.) See you all at the next Senate meeting, which will be after the upcoming elections, at which you should all vote on the next set of representatives  it is your money and interest that is a stake. That is all.
Respectfully Submitted, Ralph M. Sherman Secretary of Senate.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanNovember 23, 1982
Reasons for American defense policy not understood
Editor
This letter is an answer to the letter we 
read last week, from one Mr. Grossman, 
responding to my prior article on the 
nuclear freeze issue, with charges ranging 
from the sublime to the ridiculous. I will 
attempt to be as brief as he was, and keep my 
letter no longer than the original article.
Mr. Grossman, in his wide-ranging letter, 
generally failed to address any of my main 
points or any of the fundamental arguments 
regarding the nuclear freeze issue. Aside 
from conceding my points on the immorality 
and repressive nature of Soviet behavior 
across the globe, Mr. Grossman attempted 
to rely upon ancillary' argument to convince 
the readers. I am never convinced by the 
presentation of irrelevancies, no matter how 
well contrived they may be.
Mr. Grossman, in some manner I fail to 
comprehend, brought up such items as 
Senator McCarthy, the former House UnAmerican Activities Committee, former 
President Nixon, and the megatonindependent targeting-fallout thing as ger
mane to the freeze debate. What a 
fascinating collection of flotsam and jetsam, 
bobbing lazily on the ocean of reasoned 
discourse  polluting the facts in an attempt 
to distract us from the points at hand. 
Further, let me discuss more glaring inac
curacies  Mr. Grossman wrote just look 
at the sources  a 1980 State Department 
White Paper  I wish Mr. Grossman 
would have looked at my column  in 
which I never quoted such a source. Also, he 
discusses our completely unmatched super
iority in delivery systems such as the Posei
don and Trident submarine launchers; 
cruise missiles; neutron bombs. For your 
information, we have only three Trident 
submarines currently commissioned. We 
have no cruise missiles operationally 
deployed, and no neutron weapons either. 
This unmatched superiority is strangely 
based on invisible foundations, Mr. 
Grossman.
Going on with the parade of ill-disguised 
irrelevancies and opinions cloaked as Gods 
writ by Mr. Grossman, let us attempt to
m i m in m m n s m mmm  m n mm iiii
The Mannes College 
of Music
157 East 74 Street, New York, N.Y. 10021 (212) 737-0700MAJOR FIELDS OF STUDY
Ensembles il Residence The New York Philharmonic Wind Quintet 
The Dorian Wind Quintet The Galimir String Quartet
Special Guest Ensemble The Empire Brass Quintet
PIANOEdward AldweU Arkady Arooov David Bar-IUao Claude Frank Richard Goode Jeannette Haien Eugenia Hyman Lilian KlHr Edith Oppens Marie PowerJosef Raieff Nadia Reuenberg Peter Serkin Nina Svctlanova Mildred Waldman Diane Walsh
HARPSICHORDKenneth Cooper Eugenia Earle
ORGAN ami CHURCH MUSICFord LaUerstedt William Whitehead
STRINGED INSTRUMENTSNina Beilina, ViolinRaphael Bronstein, Vioiin and ViolaIsidore Cohen, ViolinFelix Galimir, ViolinShirley Givens, ViolinAm Kavafuin, ViolinYoung Uck Kim, ViolinSally Thomas, ViolinPaul Doktor, Viola and ViolinJohn Graham, ViolaSol OreitzCT, ViolaKaren Tuttle, ViolaClaus Adam, VioloncelloTimothy Eddy, VioloncelloJean Schneider Goberman, VioloncelloYo Yo Ma, VioloncelloPaul Tobias, VioloncelloJulius Levine, Double BassHomer Mensch, Double Bass
WOODWIND and BRASSKarl Kraber, FluteAndrew Lolya, FluteJohn Wion, FluteElaine Douvas, OboeAlbert Goitzer, OboeRonald Roseman, OboeGervase de Peyer, ClarinetDavid Glazer, ClarinetPeter Simenauer, ClarinetBurt Btal, Bassoon and ContrabassoonHarold Goitzer, Bassoon
Leonard Hindetl, Bassoon Judith LeClair, Bassoon Allen Won, Saxophone Antonio Iervolino, French Horn Ranier Delntinis, French Horn Philip Myers, French Horn Mel Broiles, Trumpet James Smith, Trumpet William Vacchiano, Trumpet John Ware, Trumpet Per Brevig, Trombone Gilbert Cohen, Trombone and 
Bass Trombone Donald Harwood, Bass Trombone Warren Deck, Tuba
TYMPANI ami PERCUSSIONNorman Grossman Howard Van Hyning Walter Rosenberger
HARPLucile Lawrence
CLASSICAL GUITARLeonid Bolotine Roslyn Dlugin Eliot Fisk Frederic Hand Herbert Levine Michael Newman Robert Secrist Albert Valdes-Blain
VOICECharles Bressler Thomas Cultice Peter Elkus Ellen Faull Jane Gunter Antonia Lavanne Dan Marek Jan Peerce Judith Raskin Marian Thompson Theodor U ppm an
ORCHESTRA and 
ORCHESTRAL CONDUCTINGSidney Harth, Music Director
CHORUS aad 
CHORAL CONDUCTINGAmy Kaiser, Music Director 
MANNES OPERA THEATER 
EARLY MUSIC PROGRAM 
COMPOSITION 
THEORY PROGRAM
reckon the significance of Somozas Nica
ragua lost to the marauders; then of Chile, 
El Salvador and Guatemala, where demo
cratic leadership struggles to be bom. 
Surely, we can all see the incoherency of his 
approach; the Sandinist government of 
Nicaragua, based on Cuban (that is, Soviet) 
weapons and supplies, offers less freedoms 
to the Nicaraguans than does the nation of 
El Salvador. At least in the latter, a plebiscite 
was recently run to allow its people to 
choose who and how they shall be governed. 
It is also evident that the Cubans, and their 
mentors, the Soviets, offer far less chance of
freedom that do the nations of El Salvador, 
Guatemala, and Chile.
As we read further in Mr. Grossmans 
diatribe, we see him describe my argument 
that slavery is worse than death to be my 
pinnacle intuition. I did not present my 
positions via any mystical intuitive process 
that Mr. Grossman may be more comforta
ble with. I used facts and issues in a rational 
manner, to better buttress my column. Mr. 
Grossman finds my sentiments to be 
kamikaze and my conception of Ameri
cas place in the world to be unimaginacontinued on page 11Explaining civil defense
Scholarships are available. 8.M., B.S., M.M., Diploma, Post-Graduate Diploma.
continued from page 5
Still, the cost could be high. Congress 
approved, for the 1983 fiscal year, an expen
diture of $147.4 million dollars, which 
works out to about 64<t per citizen. And this 
expenditure will provide for all types of 
emergencies.
Still, some say, why do this at all? Wont it 
risk attack at high odds against success? Mr. 
Clanahan differs, and explains that there are 
two fundamental reasons for providing 
Civil Defense in times of international crisis 
or war. One, if all deterrents fail, people are 
entided to protective measure that could 
save tens of millions of lives.
With the kind of warning a Soviet urban 
emigration could provide in time of crisis, 
we could find, without our own program, 
our urban populations held hostage to an 
attack. We would evacuate in .response 
only to Soviet moves, to avoid vulnerability 
to coercion. Such a potential would 
weaken an assault on our nation, and hence, 
actually deter such an attack.
What does the public think? In that same 
Gallup poll, 67% responded in favor of a
relocation plan. In a second poll by Gallup, 
people were asked if such a plan would 
increase the chances of nuclear war  and 
only 17% agreed.
In conclusion, there is, with proper fund
ing, a chance to protect our citizens from 
natural and man-made disasters of a martial 
and non-martial nature, for pennies per per
son, and this can be done effidendy and nonbelligerendy.
It is the proper role of the government to 
protect its citizens from physical harm, and 
if its attempts to negotiate peace, or to 
defend the nation from attack fail, it is, as 
Mr. Clanahan termed it, both humanitar
ian and important for national survival.., 
on an individual and collective basis to do 
so.
At all times the government must attempt 
to avert nuclear war; but, as it cannot gua
rantee such, it must make all plans necessary 
to defend its citizens.
Ralph Sherman is a senior in History and 
Political Science and is a columnist for the 
Tartan.
BROADCASTS EACH WEEK" ll-SHAUPCONCERT.SERIESNEXiflONMHPfl THIS WEI K:
GANG Of FOUR u____.. a __________~ dickes
N0Vw?mNcv im wdBBC
COLLEGE CONCERT HOUR THIS WEEK!
translator
(MU m. MU HOKE a* (flu %-m ok am
Call or write: Diaae Newman, Director of Admissions, The Mannes 
College of Mask, 157 East 74 Si., New York, N.Y. 10021, (212) 737-0700.

---------------------------------------------------

features.
Electric Guitars
tricks for printing TQPS-20 filesSome neat
By ALEX CZAJKOWSKI
Tartan StaffurrUer 
Youre stuck. Trapped, waiting for your 
X9700 paper to be printed so you can
logout.
About this time of the year, you may sud
denly find yourself out of space (over page 
allocation) on the system. You need to clean 
up your directories and get rid of some old 
stuff. If youre still cramped for space, you 
might try SPOOLING your output. The 
first thing to do is to find out how much 
space youre allowed on the system. At the 
@-sign, type INFO and hit the escape key, 
followed by DISK and escape (by this time 
you know that all commands are terminated 
with a return, right?) Youll see something 
like this:
PS:[AC1H]
Pages assigned, 90 in use, 3 deleted 
200 Working pages, 100 Permanent pages 
alloweu
20494 Pages free on PS:, ^5es usedYou can do a VDIRECTORY (or VD, tor 
^U)rt) to see all your files and their size. Or, 
tter yet, you can use a little-known pro
gram called REV. Type in REV, hit return, 
and when you see the REV] prompt, try a ?. 
Youll probably want to type REVIEW and 
escape, so you can review all your files.
REV will prompt you with a file name, its 
size in pages and the date the file was made. 
You can decide to 1) ignore it and go on to 
the next one by hitting return, 2) delete it by 
typing in DELETE, 3) or TYPE it, EDIT it, 
RENAME it . . . just about anything you 
could do to a file at Exec level. Just type a ? to 
see all of your options.
Youll notice above that pages in your 
directory are referred to as assigned, in 
use, and deleted. A deleted file doesnt go 
away until you either type EXPUNGE or 
LOGOUT. YOU CAN RUN OUT OF 
SPACE BY NOT EXPUNGING 
DELETED FILES. For instance, if youre in 
EMACS with Auto Save ByR and an auto
save is done, deleting the previous version of 
the file and writing a new one, you may get 
pushed over your allocation. Just typing 
rYPUNGE should take care of it, and thenLi
CONTINUE 10 back into the Editor.
On the other hand, it yCli SCRIBE a file
and run over Permanent storage allocation, 
you just wont be able to LOGOUT. If 
theres nothing to Delete (dont delete your 
.MSS file until after youve gotten your 
print), youre stuck. You may think your 
only option is to wait for your X9700 file to 
be printed so you can then LOGOUT.
Well, theres a trick to beat that. First, you 
must type SET DEFAULT PRINT/POR
TRAIT and whatever other switches you 
want (type a ? to see your options). Then, 
once youve gotten your print switches set 
(and you can see them by typing INFO 
DEFAULT PRINT), add another one with 
SET DEF PRI/FILE.MULTI-FONT if 
and only if you SCRIBEd the file for device 
X9700. Otherwise, the MULTI-FONT 
switch is unnecessary. Or. the other hand, if 
you try to print an X9700 file without the 
MULTI-FONT switch, all youll get will be 
an enormous and expensive stack of scrap 
paper.
A note here: You dont have to run a file 
through SCRIBE to print it on the Xerox, 
you can just print the file exactly as it 
appears on the screen. Also, if you SCRIBE
a file for DEVICE.LPT, you can print that 
on the Xerox as well. That is, you dont have 
to use all of SCRIBEs capabilities and all of 
the Xeroxs capabilities if you dont need 
them.
With Print Default set, you then type 
COPY file.X9700 LPT:
This will SPOOL the output, itll move a 
copy of the file to a special area in the com
puter where it will wait to be printed accord
ing to your Default switches. This 
command will work for printing any file on 
any printer. The trick is to specify ALL of 
your print options when you SET 
DEFAULT PRINT. And you MUST spec
ify /FILE:MULTI-FONT if youre printing an X9700!
If you type INFO OUTPUT/USER:, 
youll see your print in the queue, just like 
normal! Then you can delete your SCRIBEgenerated output file, LOGOUT and go 
home, almost confident that youll be able to 
pick it up in, well, at least the next couple 
days. Your print still has to go through the 
XEROX.
photos by Alice Alfonsi
Above: Dick, keyboardist for the Electric Guitars, relaxes with a cigarette after last Wednes
days performance at the Stanley Theatre. Below: Matt, the percussionist was seen on stage 
playing cans, tins, and sheet metal among other things.
Peter Gabriel introduced the band 
himself to the anticipating Pittsburgh 
crowd saying, this is a controversial 
band, but I like them, and I hope youll 
give them a chance.
The crowd unfortunately grew impa
tient after the first four songs. Sound dif
ficulties due to no pre-show check and a 
brand new technician left the band help
lessly motioning to the offstage techie 
who was mixing as the band performed. 
The result was a mediocre perfomance.
Says Andy, A lot of the time out there I 
didnt know if my amp was on or not. 
The Guitars recordings make a better 
impression showing-off a tighter more 
mobile sound which explains why Peter 
Gabriel must like them.
Peter lives just down the road from 
us, says Matt, weve known him for a 
couple years. Hes always taken an 
interest in things that are going on 
around locally, adds Dick, and hes 
going to produce one of our records. 
The Guitars are of the same genre as 
Gang of Four and Bow-Wow-Wow, but 
their high energy level, and unconven
tional sound give them a diffemt charac
ter. The similar influences are there, 
says Dick. We get the same audiences 
that come to see us that come to see those 
bands. But were a lot more varied, 
says Matt, Our rhythms arent the same 
as theirs, and our outlook isnt the same. 
What they do in rhythm  they deal with 
select British audiences, adds Neil.
We listen to quite a lot of reggae, I 
dont think its directly obvious, but it 
influences us says Richard running a 
hand through a nest of hair. We sort of 
speed it up, injects Matt. Adds Neil, 
We tend to stay clear of rock. We try to 
bring other things into our music.
The Guitars have been playing profes
sionally for only about one year. Their 
latest release in October 1982 is a 4-track 
extended play recording which includes 
Beat Me Hollow, Ghengis Khan, My 
Big Suprise, and The Cuboard. All of 
our recordings have gradually been get
ting toward a very energized sound thats 
been very difficult to capture, says Matt.
Earlier releases include two singles, 
Health and Work. This is what we 
find exciting, says Dick. Weve always 
wanted to make dance music, agrees 
Matt.
The Guitars find themselves facing a
difficult business, one in which a lot of 
groups never survive. Seeing it from 
England, its a very tough existenceexisting as a musician, says Matt. Its 
the sort of business where even quite suc
cessful bands even in America are break
ing. Says Dick, They got a lot of 
pressure from the music business.
Matt reaches for one of the complimen
tary Iron City beers and continues, 
What they do--they create a style for 
themselves, and they just wear out the 
style cause if they change, theyre wor
ried that people wont buy their records. 
So they just get frustrated.
The Guitars have different opinions 
on the music scene in America. I dont 
think America is catching up, smiles 
Matt, its just that its consistently 
behind by about five hours. In the 
comer, Andy quietly nods and takes a 
squinted look at the label of the beer hes 
been drinking.
Dick explained, There are bands that 
arent big any more in England, and 
theyre still big over here. But says Neil 
I think we can safely say that were all 
into some of the same groups, like The 
Talking Heads, The B-52s. Matt agrees, 
All those bands are really sort of funda
mental. They laid the foundations in 
about three or four years to whats hap
pening now.
In England at the moment for 
instance theres a really big jazz trend--
there are a lot of people our age, says 
Dick, doing jazz, and from that aspect 
America is the place, and thats where 
those people draw their inspiration. 
Matt adds, "There are people over here 
doing new things, but nobody ever listens 
to them. The people in England listen to 
them. Its sort of sad that those people 
dont get the recognition they deserve in 
their own country.
As support band for Peter Gabriels 
U.S. and Canada tour, the Electric Gui
tars are well on thier way to getting the 
recognition they do indeed deserve.
By ALICE ALFONSI
Tartan editorjin-chief
The Tartan thanks WRCT and Mark 
Bodnar for making this article possible.
They dont have the right cans over in 
America, we discovered says Neil, lead 
singer of the Electric Guitars-tfie new 
wave dance band that opened for Peter 
Gabriel last Wednesday at the Stanley 
Theatre.
Cans, sheet metal, bottles, even a 55- 
gallon oil drum were part of the unique 
hard-driving sound of this up-andcoming British band. All seven members 
are natives of Bristol, a city about 100 
miles away from London.
Fresh off the stage, The Electric Gui
tars enter the crowded smokey dressing 
room of the Stanley and welcome the 
opportunity to relax. Neil settles in on 
the large lumpy couch and Richard, the 
bassist takes a seat on the floor. These two 
started the band about three years ago 
after becoming disinterested students at 
the Polytechnic.
The other members include Andy on 
lead guitar, Matt on percussion, Dick on 
keyboards, and Sarah adding a nice femi
nine touch on backing vocals. Wendy, 
the Guitars seventh member (and sister 
to Sarah), is not doing the tour.
This is the bands first American tour. 
We seen a lot-o freeways and a lot-o 
changes, says Dick in his British brogue.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanNovember 23, 1982
Exploring the effects of
computing on the campus
By MONICA SAFRIN
Tartan Staffwritrr
Will the existence of personal computers 
turn the student body of CMU into a bunch 
of isolated hackers?
Many questions are being asked about 
personal computers and CMU. Some may 
be answered by reading the terms of the 
CMU-IBM agreement; others, more concep
tual in nature, may not be answered so read
ily. Is there any way to measure the changes 
that the university will undergo as it 
becomes an electronic community?
Dr. Sara Kiesler, professor of Social Science 
and Social Psychology, had some sugges
tions: "Study how people spend their time 
 do they get together in groups, or do they 
have one-to-one conversations? She con
tinued: [You could] look at how peoples 
feelings about themselves change after they 
get personal computers.
The effects of personal computers could 
be measured by observing behavior or by 
using questionnaires or surveys, said 
Kiesler. Factors such as "students health,
the jobs they choose, whether or not they get 
married could all be considered.
While the effects of dorms, and of campus 
life in general, on students have been studied 
by social science and psychological 
researchers, no studies have been conducted 
on the effects of a computerized college 
environment on students or faculty. With 
enough interest and support, CMU could 
pioneer research in this area. The adminis
tration has to feel that its important [to do 
this], said Kiesler. Does it? "There is a wide 
range of views on this, just as there 
other things, such as dorms, the 
classroom space.
Kiesler hypothesized that as a result ol 
personal computers, CMU may develop an 
even more exciting teaching and research 
environment. Many majors, especially 
those in H&SS, may become more techno
logical. Comparing the computer to a tele
phone in the sense that it enables people to 
communicate across distances, Kiesler spec
ulated that students and teachers will have 
more contact and will be more comfortable 
with one another.CMU writer's guild organizes for a literate year
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Staffwritrr
The CMU Writers Guild. Sound intimi
dating? It shouldnt be. The Writers Guild 
is just a support system, an informal gather
ing of interested writers and listeners  
faculty, undergraduate students, and 
graduate students.
The first meeting, an organizational one, 
took place in the H&SS lounge last Wednes
day. The setting was very informal, a feeling 
President Ann Daley hopes to convey about 
the group. We hope to change the name, 
she also said. Its too formal.
Last year the Writers Guild held their 
readings, called the Sword Dance series, in 
the Forbes Street Gallery. The readings have 
been slow this fall and most people who 
have signed up to read have signed up to 
read in the spring. Another problem they 
have encountered is the enforcement erf the
state alcohol policy, involving possible card
ing at the Forbes Street Gallery, where they 
previously served wine and beer. The pur
chase of carpet samples has resolved the 
problem of uncomfortable seating due to
the new wooden floors at the Gallery. Daley 
stressed the need for publicity and refresh
ment people.
The Writers Guild also hopes to provide 
student input in the selection of the new
head of the English department. The first 
candidate review was held last Thursday 
from 3:45 to 4:45 p.m. in Baker Hall 246A. 
The other reviews will be held on subse
quent Thursdays at the same time and 
place. Daley would like to see a lot of student 
involvement.
Coaching is offered for the readings, so 
dont be scared. Try something different this 
winter. Join the Writers Guild.
Looking back this week
By DAN TOBIAS
Tartan Staffwritrr
I originally typed this up in the Tartan 
office. There among assorted litter of old 
Tartans, and an ad offering a free package of 
Extra Strength Tylenol, are some typewri
ters erf the old-fashioned manual variety, 
which look at least as old as the articles I am 
reprinting. I managed to type this some
what legibly, but I retyped it on my electric 
typewriter anyway.
10 YEARS AGO: November 21, 1972
"More conflict has resulted from the 
announcement erf the new policy to end the 
serving of seconds at the Kiltie Cafe, than 
was anticipated by Food Service ... A sam
pling of nine dorms had already submitted 
petitions against the policy of not serving 
seconds.
The people objecting to this policy must 
have won in the end, since there are now 
unlimited seconds in Kiltie.
Apathy and manpower problems as well 
as general disorder ruled supreme as Student 
Government elections went unnoticed by 
most and with various hassles by those who 
attempted to vote. As it turned out, only 
about ten percent of the student body did 
vote.
Allegheny Womens Center
an out pitient medial clinic offering
 abortion counseling * free pregnancy tests
* personal counseling * birth control services
* gynecological care
362-2920 
Pregnancy Testing CenterMl S. Craig Street (Oakland)
PMiburgh, PA 15213
(412) 687-TEST
a* <mM W p+M *0*  <ewm#4mg.
Owle The e N
totfboww (*h Hoorl
... mortk WMIirU Slrfft ffnOMMgk fA ISKk
Another article deals with the desire of 
WRCT, which was then an AM station, to 
convert to FM. An accompanying article 
supports this move, claiming there are no 
good FM stations in Pittsburgh. KQV 
stuffs your ears with banal bubble gum. 
KDKA has been wooing lovers of Andy Wil
liams for years now. WIXZ may be fine for 
McKeesport, but many college students 
prefer other sounds besides Chuck Berry and 
the 9000 episodes erf the History of Rock and 
Roll. Most erf the other stations have never 
been in the running. He also criticizes 
WDVEs degenerate mutant rock and 
calls other stations "AM on FM, playing 
album cuts that just happen to be newly 
released as singles. 
30 YEARS AGO: November 25, 1952 
"Out of 300 college newspapers entering 
the Associated Collegiate Press associati
ons^ national contest this fall, The Tartan 
has been ranked in the upper 16 percent. 
Awarded 970 points out of 1000, The Tartan 
just missed receiving an All-American rat
ing and was given a First-Class certificate.
The association suggested the editorials 
were too long; The Tartan has since reduced 
the length by adding a cartoon in place of 
some text.
Marcelle's Typing Service
Specializes in Word 
Processing
ThesesManuscriptsResearch/term 
papersresumes/repetitive letters 
(TurabianAPAMLA strongly observed)
Fast Efficier* neasonab/e 
Call Ms. West 371 -3657 
(24 hour service)
10% discount with couponCenter
JUNIOR 
SMALL 
MEDIUM 
LARGE 
X LARGE
LARGE SELECTION OF EXTRAS 
PEPPERONI - MUSHROOMS - SAUSAGE - 
GREEN PEPPERS - ONIONS - ANCHOVIES 
BLACK OLIVES - EXTRA CHEESE - 
HOT PEPPER RINGS
ITALIAN 
HOT SAUSAGE 
MEAT BALL 
CAPICOLLO 
STEAK
MUSHROOM STEAK 
HAM/CHEESE 
ROASX BEEF 
SAI.AMI
Ql ARTER PCX NDER
\
Hoagies
Visit Our Bar & Dining Lounge 
ENJOY OUR COCKTAILS
PIZZA
3415 FORBES AVENUE 
OAKLAND 
Next to Arbys 
681-2202 or 681-2203 
Pizza
Free Delivery
Business Hours
Sundays 2:00 P.M.  2:00 A.M.
Mon Tues. - Wed 10:00 A M. - 2:00 A.M. 
Thurs.  Fri. - Sot. 10:00 A M  3:00 A.M.

---------------------------------------------------

November 23, 1982The TartanPage 11
rossman's letter like "swiss cheesa"
ntinued from page 8
ftive and dangerously shrill. I ami
t tacked for my fron-existent argument that 
,hat is for the good of our economy is for 
le good of the worlds. He could not quote 
ie on this because I did not write it. I pres
ented reason, not sentiments, in an effort to 
bolster our nation, not plunge it into chaos, 
[t takes a fevered imagination to argue other
wise, and it would be shrill indeed to do so. 
^ter reading such comments, it is no 
onder I have the taste of Swiss cheese in my 
pouth  both the cheese and Mr. Grossmans letter are full of holes.
Finally, Mr. Grossman, representative of 
many of the pro-freeze group, reminds me of 
someone Disraeli would have described as 
one of the Cosmopolitan critics, men who 
are the friends of every country save their 
own. What he calls my absurdly dogmatic 
views are, in fact, consistently and force
fully presented arguments, based on reason, 
inter-connected, and are available to all who 
choose to read them, be they CMU students 
like myself, or Pitt students such as Mr. 
Grossman. - Ralph M. Sherman
Blair brings special Christmas cheer
iontinued from page 2
E.T. and not from Jaws, Duel or 
The Sugarland Express is showing your 
nability, not some astounding feat of per
ception. (And dont try to tag Spielberg with 
[he peddler tag, either. Almost 15 years ago 
tores sold a small glob of green plastic in 
injunction with the movie The Green
Slime.)
Open your eyes, Eric. This is a capitalist 
society, and its worth is inestimable, (just 
ask Ralph Sherman.) If you dont like 
E.T., OK; I dont think you were forced to 
the movie at gunpoint. Ergo, dont go. To 
use Spielbergs words, This is reality. 
Doug Blair is a columnist for The Tartan.
auuccii uid/cnovicn
Class trip to the Morewood Rec Room - is everybody here?
PEOPLE WHO
SPEAK YOUR 
I LANGUAGE
INVITE YOU TO...
An OPEN HOUSE
Tuesday, December 7 
(For location, contact Placement Office)
An Newsn attaorwlcrd NWtnadNo
Monday, December 6 Skibo Bldg. - Highlander Room 
12:00  3:00 pm
If you are a student working towards your B.S., M.S., or PhD in EE, ME, IE, or CS, or a faculty member already holding such a degree, you are invited to attend our Harris Open House.
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
Harris is a Fortune 300 Company headquartered in Melbourne, Florida employing Approximately 26,000 people at 40 worldwide locations. It is the nation's largest manufacturer of printing equipment, electronic editing equipment for newspapers, and AM and FM broadcasting transmitters. A leader in the research and development of phased array technology, Harris is also the nation's sixth largest telecommunications equipment firm. Harris Semiconductor ranks among the world's top ten manufacturers of integrated circuits.
In conjunction with the Open House, engineers and technical managers representing various divisions of the five business sectors of Harris (Semiconductor, Qovemment Systems, Communications, Information Systems, and Printing Fxjuipment) will be on campus to conduct interviews.

---------------------------------------------------

ANYTHING
Anyone who has ever wanted to work 
for an insurance company, and anyone who 
hasnt, should consider The Travelers. Because 
we offer careers both in insurance and in a vari
ety of other fields which help us service our 
wide range of financial products.
Under The Travelers umbrella, youll find 
careers in engineering, data processing, finance, 
marketing. And as an insurance industry leader, 
we offer rewarding careers in actuarial science, 
underwriting and sales.
So if youre wondering who works for 
an insurance company, over 30,000 people 
from differing backgrounds are at work for 
The Travelers right now. Theyve chosen us 
because we have the resources, variety, benefits/ 
rewards and growth that make up the ingredients 
for a bright future.
Travelers representatives will be visiting 
your campus soon. For details, see your Placement 
Director or write to: Rubin I. Fisher, Assistant 
Director, The Travelers, Dept. 31, One Tower 
Square, Hartford, CT 06115
iheTravelers] An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
photo by Gene Yonish
have the sound
Gabriel plays 
Stanley
By CHUCK FRIEDLANDER
Special for the Tartan
Peter Gabriel has always been somewhat 
of an enigma. Part mystic/part actor, part 
sound technician, part political commentathinking mans musician.
As the former lead vocalist 
and frontman for Genesis, he 
was known for his flamboyant 
costumes, lyrical melodies and 
nelodic lyrics. As a solo artist, he has bared 
lis soul to his audiences and helped shape 
he boundaries of modem music.
Hi is past Wednesday, before a nearellout crowd at the Stanley Theater, the 
Gabriel band showed us both the passive 
and the aggressive energy of
lew music.
The concert opened with a new wave 
land called Electric Guitars. Their sound 
,vas a curious mix of the hard-core funkiness 
if the Gang of Four and the pop beat of 
KTC. However, they didnt seem nearly as 
tight or appealing as either of 
hese better known bands; neither did they 
quality to carry off any 
type of sound. They came off 
ike a funky kind of garage band, which I 
iont believe was quite their intention, and 
hey pretty much droned from one song to 
.he next.
The crowd didnt help much. Gabriel 
draws a mixed crowd  some come because 
of loyalties to the dead or nearly-dead dino
saur groups of the 70s like Genesis, others 
to see where Mr. Gabriel is taking them 
along on his innovative road of new music. 
The latter group, which understood more or 
less where Electric Guitars are coming from, 
were somewhat more sympathetic to the 
opening band. The former group simply 
didnt want to listen to the strange new 
type of music (the guy in front of me was 
obviously lost on his way to a Ted NugentCharlie Daniels concert  Yahoo), and 
would probably not have known the differ
ence if XTC, the Gang of Four or even the 
Sex Pistols were in front of them.
All was forgotten, however, when Peter 
Gabriel and his troops made their dramatic 
march to the stage. The drum corps, coming 
continued on page 15
The Rolling Stones  (1 to r) John Zoll, Jeff Fetkovich, Alan Ferrenberg, Dan Slavin, and Oren Eisner  performed at the AB Air Band 
contest.Favorite Year is old-fashioned fun
By JOHN CANTINE
Tartan Assistant Entertainment Editor
In recent years Hollywood seems to have 
been attacked by a fit of nostalgia. George 
Lucas Star Wars films brought a stam
pede of 30s style adventure films rolling 
over movie screens all over the 
country. Lawrence Kasdens 
5* Body Heat brought back the
^ steamy, sultry style of the old
40s detective movie. And then came the ulti
mate nostalgia film, Steve Martins Dead 
Men Dont Wear Plaid, which actually 
interweaved clips from old detective movies 
within a framework plot by Martin, Carl 
Reiner, and George Gipe.
Of all of these movies, though, none 
embraced the real feeling of the fun old 
movies as well as a fun new movie, My 
Favorite Year.
The year in question is 1954, when you 
could tell a Hudson from a Plymouth from 
an Oldsmobile, and live television come
dies provided viewers with a weekly dose of 
insanity.
The film concerns one of these comedy
shows, King Kaisers Comedy Cavalcade. 
Obviously modeled on Sid Caesars Your 
Show of Shows (Joseph Bologna, who 
stars as Kaiser, even looks a little like Cae
sar), Comedy Cavalcades onstage crazi
ness does not come close to the insanity that 
goes on backstage. Rold Gold cigarette 
packs with gorgeous legs roam the halls. 
The entire crew is berserk; people fly into a 
room only long enough to scream a hysteri
cal order, and then dash off to-be hysterical 
somewhere else.
This kind of action makes for an incredi
bly fast-paced film, and it is this hyperlight 
speed that carries the film through all obsta
cles, and makes it literally a laugh-a-minute 
comedy. The funny lines fly thick and fast, 
as the insecure writers take turns stabbing 
each other, not necessarily in the back, try
ing to stay on The King Kaisers good 
side.
Throughout the movie, Director Richard 
Benjamin gets the most mileage possible 
from his cast. All of the characters are wellrounded and extremely funny, especially 
Peter OToole, who plays the shows guest
onstadt gives confident performance
the protective shield of the mike 
stand.
Now more than ever, Ronstadt can get away with remainone spot number after number, 
thanks to her recently polished, interpretive 
belting. While still not as exciting a perBy DEBBIE NIR
Tartan Staffwriter
Attending a Linda Ronstadt concert five 
years ago entailed some cheering, but mostly 
nodding off, as the Cub $cout uniform clad 
rock/country singer remained safely behind
mg
by Geof Becker
ofessors Gerry Costanzo and Lynne Barrett were among the crowd at Gustines last 
after Barretts reading earlier that night.
former as her potential indicates, a spirited 
and confident Linda Ronstadt appeared at 
the Stanley Theater last Thursday evening 
to an SRO crowd of rock and country fans.
Dressed in a red and white cheerleaders 
skirt-still the penchant for uniforms--a P 
adorned red sweater, red go-go boots, and a 
red riboon surrounding her curly, shoulderlength hair, the stage-wise Rosntadt twisted 
and turned from one wing to the other, often 
within inches of the audience.
With the flip of a wrist she invited the fans 
to get closer during the song of the same 
name. Other high-speed rock and country 
tunes, including the show opener Tum
bling Dice, Warren Zevons Poor Poor 
Pitiful Me, Buddy Hollys Its So Easy, 
and the older classic Silver Threads and 
Golden Needles, found her playing with 
the audience in a similar but sometimes 
forced and self-concious manner.
With ticket prices at a whopping $18.50, it 
was virtually guaranteed that the theater 
would be filled with hard-core Ronstadt 
fans, so it was no surprise that most of the 
ballads-the backbone of the show-were 
ones little known to occassional listeners. 
The only Top 40 ballads performed were 
Blue Bayou and the final encore Despecontinued on page 15
star, Alan Swann. Swann had been the swashingbuckling hero of many 1930s movies, 
much like Errol Flynn.
Unfortunately for Kaiser, Swanns swash 
has buckled. A hopeless alcoholic, Swann 
arrives at the Comedy Cavalcade offices 
late, and prompdy flops onto a table, com
pletely out. Kaisers reaction: Dump him.
This shocks the shows young scriptwri
ter, Benjy Stone (Mark Linn-Baker). He has 
grown up with Swanns movies. He argues 
that Swann is a legend. Kaiser agrees. Stone 
argues that one mistake shouldnt be held 
continued on page 14Poets read at 
Forbes Gallery
By LAUREN SCHNEIDER
Tartan Staffwriter
Last Thursday evening, the Forbes 
Gallery sponsored a poetry reading by 
undergraduate poets Maria Barbu to and 
Genny Moreau. The reading was the first in 
a series of performing arts events that the 
Gallery would like to sponsor.
The Red Ribbon erf Amsterdam, Barbutos opening poem, reflected the strong 
roots in personal experience, or at least the 
feeling of them, that permeated most of the 
poems she read.
Reptilian Wunderbar and A Martian 
Sends a Postcard Home were unique in 
their points of view, one about life from a 
lizards eye view and the other detailing the 
discovery and adventure of being away, par
ticularly at CMU, in the form of a Martians 
letter home to Mom and Dad.
Its Living by Genny Moreau opened 
her reading and used a mixture of rhyme, 
assonance, and meter to effectively convey a 
feeling of continuity and motion. Her work 
draws on a variety of human experiences, 
from an untided poem about selling worms 
as a child to a short story that counted cycles 
erf putting together a familiar life after love 
and watching it fall apart again.
Moreaus poems took the vantage point of 
an observer hopelessly entangled in events 
that rob her of the objectivity she desires.
The response was good, filling the Forties 
Gallery with approximately 40 listeners. 
Neil Winkel, gallery director, announced 
his hopes of the Gallery becoming a forum 
for performing arts at CMU, and invited 
future readers and recitalists to make use of 
the reeendy remodeled Forbes Gallery to dis
play their talents.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanNovember 23, 1982
River City Band marches through American music
By TOM WOODLEY
Tartan Staffwriter
Anyone believing that pop music is only 
emotion and excitment generating music 
today had better look again. In a rousing 
Stars and Stripes Forever performance last
continued from page 13
against Swann. Kaiser agrees. Then Kaiser 
makes his decision: Dump him.
He instandy changes his mind, however, 
as he always does. He decides to give Swann 
a chance, but it is Stones responsibility to 
make sure that Swann makes all of the 
rehearsals, on time and at least partially 
sober.
This is enough to launch an outrageously 
funny movie. OToole's Swann could give 
James Bond lessons in suave. When an 
admirer tells him: It is a pleasure to see you, 
sir, he coolly replies: It is a pleasure to be 
seen.
Opposite OToole, Mark Linn-Baker is 
litde short of brilliant. As the shy, slighdy 
neurotic Benjy Stone, he moves through the 
film like a hyperactive imp on the edge of a 
nervous breakdown. Stones panicked reac
tion to the imperturbable Swann is worth 
an entire movie.
Unfortunately, though, Steinberg and 
Palumbo dont leave it at that. Also mixed 
into this movie is a plot of a gangsters 
threats against Kaiser, and an off-and-on
romance between Benjy Stone and K. C. 
Downing (Jessica Harper), Kaisers
Saturday, Pittsburghs River 
City Brass Band (RCBB) with its 
full, bright tones proved that 
brass bands and their music can 
never be forgotten.
The RCBB brightened the ornate interior 
of Carnegie Music Hall for three hours,
assistant.
All of these threads  the episode 
brought off successfully, Swanns redemp
tion through Stones faith in him, Kaisers 
final fight with the gangsters men, and the 
budding romance between Stone and 
Downing  are all tied together neady in a 
wild, rollicking final brawl. The film, 
which is a comedy for the first hour and a 
half, swings headfirst into adventure for the 
final scene, and everything turns out all 
right.
Something strange happens, though. 
Even though the viewer knows that all of 
the threads are being tied up in an all-toohappy ending, the film is still enjoyable to 
watch. I did not mind the finish at all; in 
fact, I loved it. Somehow, any ending in 
which everything wasnt perfect would seem 
out of place in My Favorite Year.
The film truly captures the feel of those 
great old movies where the hero crashes 
through all obstacles to win it all. Though it 
is usually hard to get involved in a comedy 
film to any great extent, you actually leave 
My Favorite Year feeling great. Benjamin 
has made a rare film  one that is an outand-out laugh riot, yet at the same time, an 
exciting adventure.
rarely releasing the audience from the spell 
of its thrilling sounds. The audience 
responded with more than just passive 
observance, however. There was an active 
audience participation. The RCBB treated 
the crowd to two audience sing-alongs 
including the upbeat World War II song, 
Thumbs Up America and played the 
audience selected encore, British Grenadi
ers. The effect created was so strong and 
contagious that the audience was occasion
ally compelled to clap to the lively beat.
The concert featured the music of United 
States wars, leading off with The Star 
Spangled Banner and continuing with a 
long succession of marches and martial 
music favorites. The band remembered each 
branch of the service with its traditional 
march, along with other popular patriotic 
tunes like America the Beautiful and J.
Sousas well known Stars and Stripes 
Forever.
The concert was further enhanced by the 
appearance erf guest conductor, William 
Middendorf II. Middendorf, a prominent 
supporter of the RCBB in its early stages and 
a composer and conductor in his own right, 
directed the band through two of his own 
marches. One of these marches, Inaugural 
March was written for and performed for 
the first time at President Reagans 
inauguration.
It is difficult to highlight a performance 
when the performance is a highlight in 
itself. One thing is certain though, the 
RCBB has clearly shown that brass bands 
are on their way to once again being an 
American tradition and an American 
favorite.
photo by Kathleen Drazenovich
Dave Smith read selections from his poetry last Wednesday night as part of the Visiting 
Writers Series.
Favorite Year mixes laughs 
with high-flying adventure
Tartan Elections Are Near!!
Election of editors for the Spring-Fall 1983 term 
will occur Tuesday, December 7. 
Positions A vailable:
Editor-in-Chief 
Dossier Editor 
(require 1 semester experience)
Business Manager 
Production Manager 
Advertisement Manager 
(appointed; be there anyway)
Managing Editor 
News Editor 
Features Editor 
Entertainment Editor 
Sports Editor 
Photography Editor 
(no experience necessary)
Notice: AH staff members should come to the elections. Members will be able to vote for their individual section editors.

---------------------------------------------------

November 23,1982The TartanPage 15
novation, honesty  key traits of Gabriel's show
from page 13
lWn the right center aisle to a standing, 
eering and expectant crowd, hopped up 
to the stage and continued their steady 
t into the opening tune, Rhythm of the
eat.
After the meaningful Family and the 
ishing Net, we were treated to his latest hit 
pm Security, Shock die Monkey. No, 
x Gabriel doesnt shock monkeys, he is 
monkey. This tune typified Peter 
abriels approach to the live performance 
his compositions. The dancing and 
ping musician acts out his songs, which 
obably assists in preserving the effects of 
s message when he plays to non-Englishking audiences. It was not wasted on us, 
,wever. The man shows his inner feelings 
a live setting; rarely have I seen a more 
n and honest performance. The live 
terpretation of Shock the Monkey 
ided to the Motown feel of the song.
After Family Snapshot. Gabriels study 
the inner conflicts of an assassin, one 
uld sense the energy coming from the 
wd as well as the band. Peter Gabriel has 
lent for getting the absolutely best musito tour with him, as well as play on his 
urns, four so far.
Tonights band was no less appropriate, 
vid Rhodes on guitar and Larry Fast on 
thesizers helped to shape this interpretan of Gabriels work. Jerry Marotta was 
tially impressive on drums. Tony Levin 
eres that name again) came as close as 
yone can to stealing the show from one of 
sics greatest show stoppers. The tall 
nheaded bass and stick player extraordiire, Levin is one of the most asked-for 
dio musicians in the industry, In a live 
w, his stage mannerisms exude the pure 
of entertainment  at the Crimson 
w, he was the only performer Ive ever 
n take pictures of the audience, rather 
n vice-versa.
2 Gabriel, like Levin, seems to draw energy
Pregnant?
And you didn't mean to be?
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 621 -1988
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
For a confidential friend call:
LIFELINE
Downtown Pgh. 562-0543
Beaver County 843-0505
Mon Valley 489-9020
Butler County 282-1200
from his audience. After the serious 
Intruder from his third album, Peter 
Gabriel, he did John Has a Headache, 
one of the highlights of this show of many 
highlights. If this not-yet-released song is a 
vision of things to come, bring on the music, 
Peter!
During the next song, Lay Your Hands 
on Me, Gabriel walked bravely, if not 
gracefully, out into the frenzied crowd and 
laid his hands on lots of us. Back on stage, he 
played the crowd pleaser Salisbury Hill 
from his first solo LP, Peter Gabriel. I 
Dont Remember, San Jacinto and the 
tense I Hold the Line concluded the set.
The crowds response when Gabriel left 
the stage was heartening. It left a warm feel
ing to know that innovative musicians can 
have an enthusiastic following, even in 
Pittsburgh. The sound system was possibly 
the best Ive heard in the Stanley yet. The 
creativity, in his song writing and sound 
technology (Gabriel knows as much about 
making new kinds of noises as anyone), 
deserves the kind of respect that has been too 
long in coming for experimenters like him, 
Bowie, Fripp, Eno, etc., etc.
The encores were just as hot. Gabriel gave 
his all in On the Air, the lone song this 
night from his second album, Peter Gabriel
(Sense a pattern here? Its a shame that the 
studio pigs, er moguls, had to give his fourth 
LP a name).
He invited us all to dance with him on 
Kiss of Life. The final song, Biko, 
brought together the divisive aspects of his 
library of songs.
With the audience singing in unison, 
Gabriel departed the stage, leaving us to 
sing with the band. Leaving the Stanley, the 
energy level left me thinking that this was 
the message. Peter Gabriel is not the music, 
we dont really need him to make the music; 
the music is inside of us.
Not many old faves clutter Linda's concert
continued from page 13
rado, the latter her most powerful piece, 
sending an incredibly ranged voice careen
ing through the Stanley. Ronstadt, sur
rounded by blue lighting, added personal 
distinction to "Blue Bayou by performing 
the last stanzas in Spanish.
Old habits are hard to break, and for Ron
stadt the old habits sometimes win. Per
forming ballads allowed her to fall into the 
familiar trap of rigid formality, but this time 
it was hardly an annoyance. Not only didnt 
the stiffness go on for the usual prolonged 
periods of time, but the serene atmosphere 
afforded fans a chance to marvel at litde 
known tunes performed at a superior quality of power and richness than their recorded 
versions.
In a pigeon-toed stance-the only visible 
remnant of her portrayal of Gilbert and Sul
livans heroine Mabel- she exuded a more 
bite and gut-tearing quality on Elvis Costel
los Party Girl than on the album Mad 
Love.
Lowell Georges country ode Willin 
was no longer a shaky tune and Ronstadt 
seemed overjoyed and exhilirated when 
audience members, without prodding, 
joined in on the chorus. The oddest treat 
was a new rendition of the already painful 
and despairing Heart Like A Wheel with 
Ronstadt adding stanzas on death and in the
process doubling the length of the song.
At the conclusion erf the set, Youre No 
Good, second only to Heat Wave (an 
encore) as Ronstadts best known number, 
was the evenings brightest moment. The 
scathing and steamier version of the hit 
highlighted her eight person back-up 
ensemble and included brilliant solos by 
guitarists Dan Dugmore and Waddy Wachtel, (the latter the most technically proficient 
and easily the audience favorite among the 
instrumentalists).
Andrew Gold and Bill Payne shared key
board duties, each getting their share of 
exquisite solos on the white grand pianocontinued on page 16
PREGNANT? can wsw
Let's talk about your options.
HOTLINE: (412) 731-2420
PREGNANCY TESTING: 391-4706
908 Penn Avenue, Downtown 
8-10 a.m. MWF; 11-1 p.m. TTS
Frae and confidential information, 
counseling, pregnancy testing, and 
related services.
ALTERNATIVES TO ABORTION INC
 non-profit organization
We AssureEngineering Graduates A Smooth Take-Off
The most critical time in yourcareer is now Cleveland Pneumatic 
can assure a smooth take-off for your entry into the world of 
engineering.
We are the world's foremost designer and manufacturer of com
mercial and military aircraft landing gear systems. Our state-ofthe-art engineering techniques are matched only by the engi
neers we hire. To develop your potential to the fullest we begin 
by placing every new graduate engineer in a hands-on training 
program You'll rotate through various engineering depart
ments. gaming knowledge of the design and manufacture of a 
high strength, close tolerance, highly engineered mechanical 
structure.
You'll contribute to the production of landing gear every step of 
the way by working on projects such as the Boeing 767. the F 18 
and the B 1 B. The emphasis at Cleveland Pneumatic is on diver
sity. not specialization, and. as an employee in a medium-sized 
company, your efforts will be recognized and your performance 
will be rewarded accordingly
Our Engineering Representative will be on campus to talk about 
our career opportunities in the following areas:
 DEVELOPMENT ENGINEERING
 TEST ENGINEERING
 PRODUCTION ENGINEERING
Your degree in Aeronautical. Mechanical. Civil or Industrial 
Engineering could qualify you for a great engineering career 
The future is bright for us. and it can be for you with a 
company that will offer your future a smooth take-off
If you'd like to know more about engineering opportunities at 
Cleveland Pneumatic talk with Our Recruitment Manager on 
Campus Friday. December 3rd or write Recruitment Manager. 
Cleveland Pneumatic Company. 3781 E. 77th Street. Cleveland. 
Ohio 44105. An Equal Opportunity Employer M F H

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanNovember 23, 1982
A camera disappeared from the Tartan 
office on Saturday, October 23rd. 
Discrete inquiries failed to turn it up. 
Now a more extensive search is in pro
gress and you can participate.
There will be a reward for information 
leading to recovery of the camera. The 
camera can be identified by its regis
tration numbers:
Lens: 2276084 
Camera Body: 1865968 
If you have information about the 
camera, call:
Security: 578-2323 
The Tartan: 578-2111
Be Alert and be Paid'for it!
W alking in Style doesn't 
have to be expensive. See our 
collection of fur-lined clogs b\ 
(iolo, Mia and Olafdaughters, 
Moccasins by Minnetonka. W estern 
boots h\ Dingo and Miss ( ape zi<>
JOE FRESHMAN
o raise ge tuition. . .W. . .gallar ifoetoe alumni ^ ' together in a circle.
- -< I' 1
1
i
1 x 

i^ 
 1
f I

1
<
_____:L_____
Ronstadt loves the Stanley
by Mark Levirif
. .ait prag tip tuhenta 
hantfirth ge current national ff mfiatum mex. m V*- Otultipiy bnotice.
Senta Driver and her modem dance company Harry will be performing at Heinz! 
December third and fourth. With student ID reduced tickets are $4 at the Pittsbu 
Playhouse the day erf the performance.
The Best Selection of Clogs 
For Women and Men
continued from page 15
Gold during Heart Like A Wheel and 
Payne on Desperado.
Rounding out the familiar group erf 
Southern California musicians were Lee 
Sklar on bass, Rick Moratta on drums and 
Ken and Liza Edwards on vocals. Despite 
being surrounded by these highly crafted 
musicians, Ronstadts ability to never lose 
the spotlight is a tribute to her marked 
improvement as a live performer.
Unfortunately the concert lasted only one 
and a half hours, disappointing the always 
enthusiastic crowd. Talking very little, how
ever, Ronstadt was able to squeeze nineteen 
tunes into that time span, though what was 
spoken was a let-down due to constant plug
ging. Although only four tunes came from
the new album, die suggested the audience 
buy the record instead of taping it at a 
friends house, because if you do that, well 
starve to death and we dont like that. 
When introducing Ken Edwards, she pro
moted his recently produced Karla Bonoff 
album and acted likewise for Andrew Gold.
The silence hardly made a difference to 
her fans. With every note Ronstadt endeared 
herself to the audience, but clinched Pitts
burghs heart when she proclaimed about 
the Stanley Theater-the only non-arena 
stop on her tour--This is a nice theater..Its 
just the right size for music.. .This is real art, 
you know.
There was mutual agreement on both 
sides. Linda Ronstadt loved the Stanley 
Theater and the Stanley Theater loved her.
124 Oakland Avenue 
621-2599
Open Daily 10:00 A M 
Saturdays ,11 00 A M

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
Hockey team trounces Penn State and Gannon
By WILLIAM A. HEYSE
Tartan Staffwriter
Sunday at the Civic Arena the Hockey 
Club won their 5th straight game, 4 to 1 over 
Gannon College.
CMUs Rick Samuelson got the Tartans 
on the board 26 seconds after the opening 
face-off with help from Eric Spray and Craig 
Janik. Four minutes later Rick Samuelson 
slipped another one past the Gannon netminder this time unassisted.
Midway through the second period Gan
non scored their lone goal while the Tartans 
were shorthanded. Later in the period Rick 
Samuelson got a hat as he winged the puck 
into the upper reaches of the net. He was 
assisted by linemates Eric Spray and Don 
Heyse.
In the third period Don Heyse slid the 
puck under the Gannon netminder on a 
pass from Rick Samuelson to close out the
scoring.
On Saturday, CMUs hockey team visited 
Penn State-McKeesport and started behind, 
something they havent been all year.
The Tartans started slow allowing PennState to score just over one minute into the 
game. This got the Tartans on track as 
Penn-State only had 2 shots for the period. It 
took till all most the end of the period for 
Andy Andrejko to score while short-handed 
3 men to 4 men. He was assisted by Tim 
Carlin. They quickly got another as Eric 
Spray intercepted a State pass, broke into the 
State zone and placed it past the goal tender.
The Tartans continued their scoring 
spurt as Rick Samuelson put one in, assisted 
by Eric Spray and Craig Janik. Rookie 
Chris Byrne then scored his first goal of the 
year with help from Rob Katz. As CMU 
relaxed State scored again to bring them 
within 2.
At the beginning of the third period, State 
scored again bring them within one. Later 
in the period Eric Spray stuffed the puck 
between the goal tender and the post. Rick 
Samuelson assisted on the play. Then a
pnoto Dy sieve v> mawcr
The Tartans took their heavy hitting style to Gannon and beat them 4-1. CMU was led by Rick Samuelsons hattrick.
fight broke out at the opposing bench ^ a a a m -
involving Tartan Mike Panno. This got hiu duo nuns cross country
CMU going as they made State a part of 
the boards. Rob Katz scored one with Tim 
Kenny and Tim Carlin getting assists. To 
close out the scoring, Eric Spray passed it to 
Don Heyse who passed it to Rick Samuel
son who took forever to put it in the net.
At the buzzer,CMU had 50 shots on net 
and a 7-3 win.
December 4 the Tartans travel to Wheel
ing to play Wheeling College.
By FRANK MATOUSEK
Tartan Staffwriter
Good fortune can only hold out so long, 
before disaster strikes as the CamegieMellon cross country team found out last 
Satuday at the nationals in Fredonia, New 
York. The Tartans ended a fantastic season 
by finishing disappointingly low in the 
field of approximately 28 teams, which
represented the best out of all the Division 
III colleges in the country.
The misfortune began early in the week 
for the Tartans when number one runner 
Joh Wessels became sick. His sickness deve
loped into what was thought to be bronchi
tis, and so he couldnt run in the national 
meet. All-American Mike Short also became 
continued on page 189-GAME CMU FOOTBALL STATISTICSPASSINGATTCOMPperINTYDSTDS
Won 6 Lost 3Kiselick198101.5101516728Zito2410.41731800
RUSHINGATT.YDS.AVG.TDSKlipa20.000100Garverick1394333.12Vasalani732253.14ALL RETURNSPUNTS KOFFSKiselick851822.15Huwar441613.72Chrise11/410/0
Morrison271033.81Rossi1/90 0
Sansosti28712.51Orlowski2/200
Zito231054.62Garverick0 0235
Smith10191.90Boland1/00/0
Boland284.00Roble0 06/126
Klipa188.00Fuhrmann0 03 30
Leposky1-10-10.00Fry0/04/71
OShip2-22-11.00Smith0 03/58
RECEIVINGRECP.YDS.LONG.TDSHuwar00332
Leposky28504483SACKSCarroll24387472DEFENSETATTLFry20367641Bachik4372360Da Canal18323421Chrise1391857Roble693260Clarke3341852Morrison440161Griffith1302151St- George249350O'Donnell0272047Grachen227160Rossi0212243Wise114140Kording3291241Richards112120Nardone1271138Huwar438120Smith1-2-20PUNTINGNOYDSAVGLONG
SCORINGTDS X-PTS 2-PTFGSPTSOShip36132836.956Kiselick50 2034
Fleischman0 13/15 05/828Vasalani40 1026Leposky30 0018INTERCEPTIONSNO.YDS.TDS
Morrison20 0012Rossi4350Huwar20 0012Scarmazzi350Carroll20 0012Griffith2300Sto20 0012Orlowski2-20Garverick20 0012O'Mara1160Fry10 108O'Donnell1120Cianai10 108Sherwin1120Sansosti10 006ZagonM100Clamor03 01 44Clarke100DieRrlman10 006Oirisc100

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanNovember 23, 1982
ATO falls short in quest for 1st soccer title
Minws(B) tIn thefinals for the Minors Soccer crown, 
the brothers of ATO were halted by the 
strong goal tending of Alex Daniel and the 
scoring of forward Jim Giordano and were 
defeated 3-0 by the Litde Rascals in a close 
and grueling match on Friday. The ATO 
attack led by Keith Sterling, Doug Reinstein, Don Brennenman, and Jeff Bergman 
peppered the Rascals goalie with-over 15 
shots in which Daniel made some fantastic 
saves. The Litde Rascals scored their first 
goal in the first half on a shot from the right 
side that ATO goalie Joe Schinosi couldnt 
handle. Giordano later added two, late in 
the second half, on on a powerful shot from 
the 12 yard line and another on a header that 
caught Schinosi and fullback Brian Kanterman by surprise. Sweeper Rob Fleischman 
was a standout for ATO as he set up numer
ous scoring opportunities for the offense of 
which they could not complete. In the 
majors final, ICU beat CM Stars 2-1 in triple 
overtime.
Elsewhere, champoins were also crowned 
in Team Volleyball. GSIA won the Interme
diates, Spiked Punch won the Womens 
crown, while Pi Lam-C took the Minors.
Entries are due Thursday, January 13th 
for Basketball, Bridge, and Handball. Com
missioners are needed for all three.
Next IM board meeting will be December 
2nd. Be There!
Army ROTC
DU
DG-2
Adams Paddles 
Harrys Tavern 
Pi Lam Phi 
GWANG 1
Racquetball
Intermediate I
Delta Upsilon 
Theta Xi 
Harrys Tavern 
Swatters 
Pika
Pi Lambda A
Minors B
Slump B 
DTD B 
Kappa Sig B 
Killers 
Squat Shots 
Pi Lambda B 
Excitable Boys
Minors ATable TennisSlump A 1
DTD A 2
Kappa Sig A 2
Math 4
Doherty Deadheads 0
Majors (A)
Kappa Sig 
Pika
Phi Kap A 
Samurui 
The Defaults 
ButterslagCMU tired
V-Ball shows
The CMU volleyball club, whose regular 
season begins in February, placed third in 
the I.U.P. Invitational Volleyball Tourna
ment on Saturday, November 13.
According to team captain, Mike Mat
thews, "We played as a team, hitting and 
digging well. And we had a very positive 
mental attitude.
The teams in the tournament were 
divided into two pools erf six teams. Each 
team played the other five teams in its pool 
twice.
CMU took two games each from 
Slippery Rock, I.U.P. B, and Oil City 
YMCA, and split a pair each with Robert 
Morris and East Deer Volleyball Club.
IMMIGRATION AND CITIZENSHIP 
LAW
PERSONAL INJURY CLAIMS
NO CHARGE FOR INITIAL 
CONSULTATION
Call Anytime: 281-4130 or 361-7911
ROBERT A. CREO 
GARY S. STEINER 
Attorneys at Law
VWR Scientific 
147 Delta Drive 
Pgh., PA 15238 
800-242-3776 
412-782-4230
As manufactured by Kimble 
For a complete product 
listing please call or write:Appointments Available in Downtown, 
Oakland , Squirrel Hill and Morningside 
locations days, evenings and Saturdays.

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
lassifieds
>ldom seoi student seeks comfortable apartit dose to CMU-Pitt for January. Paul 683- 
evenings.
lutifui 1-bedroom apartment. Completely furPrivate bath. Close to CMU. Available 
iber 17. $260 utilities included. Call 421-
14.
Typing/ Word Processing: Thesis, 
lusaipts, research, resume, repetitive letters, etc. 
BtfLA - APA & Turabian strongly observed.) 
large variety of typefaces and 24 hour service
 mailable. Call Mrs. West 371-3657. Satisfaction 
Ijaranteed.
ilnprove your grades! Research catalog - 306
 iges - 10278 topics. Rush $1.00, Box 25097C, 
1% Angeles, CA 90025. (213)477-8226.
uitar lessons. Classical, jazz, pop. 3rd year 
1U music student. Vi hr. - $6; 1 hr - $10. Call 
Toth. 683-7331.
till type term papers, dissentations, letters, 
sumes, manuscripts and so forth. Reasonable 
[tes. Call Shirley before 9 p.m. 521-0534.
Professional typing and word processing. Fast, 
efficient, reasonable. Speeches, manuscripts, 
research papers, term papers. 24 hr service. Satis
faction guaranteed. For best results call Ms. West 
371-3657.
Women  join the Academic Bag Ladies over a 
meal on Thursdays 12-1 or 4-6. Lutheran Univer
sity Center, 5415 Forbes Ave., Oakland. Over 25 
and back in school? Need a network and support 
group? Lonely? Hungry? Call 682-6886 for info.
Loving professional couple seeks adoption of 
infant Can you help us? Call after 6 p.m. Bill and 
Gloria, 856-5827.
CMU! Skiers! Win ter break ski trip to Killington 
or Smugglers Notch ski resorts in Vermont! 5 
days skiing, 5 nights lodging in slopeside condos 
with kitchens and nightly parties from $156. Call 
(800) 368-2006 tollfree. Ask for Nancy. Go with XJ" " I 
friends or organize a small group and ski for face. OTTIOI3I
Oakland Review, CMUs literary magazine, is _________________
now accepting submissions of poetry, fiction, 
drama, and artwork. Submissions should be 
placed at Skibo Info Desk, do Editor, Oakland 
Review. Deadline is February 25,1983. Questions 
and special arrangements: call Kristin Dovadc 
x4242.
Audio Recording Hempfield Recording Lex
icon, Delta Lab, Sennheiser and Neumann. 
Small 8-track studio including State of the Arts 
outboard equipment Create excellent recording 
opportunity at reasonable sees. 864-0787.
Talented programmer student wanted to go into 
business partnership or pan-time work. 367- 
0586, p.m.
Two bedroom apartment on Beder St  2 floor, 
yard, fireplace, big kitchen. Must rent by Dec 1. 
Call Jeff. 578-2865, 422-0197.
Theater arts and communications students: part 
time employment available, evenings, working 
in a newly developed phone follow up in the 
South Hills. If interested call 243-1033 and ask for 
Cindy.
general
John P. Crerine, Dean of the College of Humani
ties and Social Sciences, will hold open office 
hours for students each Tuesday, 1:30-3:30, BH 
260.
First Booth meeting will be Tuesday, November 
30, at 9 p.m. in Room 11. All Midway partici
pants must send a representative.
What sits on Fotbes Avenue, houses the dino
saurs, exhibits great art and needs you as a volun
teer? Carnegie Institute does. The Museum of 
Natural History and the Museum of Art provide 
opportunities for volunteers to assist curators, to 
train as interns, to serve in the gift shops, or in 
any of a large number of areas in the museum 
world. Call Ailsa Thompson in volunteers at 
622-3318 for information.
WRCT (88.3) features: Monday, November 22, at 
9 p.m. and Friday, November 26, at midnight the 
B-Sharp Concert Series with The Dickies-, Wed
nesday, November 24, at 9 p.m. and Saturday, 
November 27 at midnight the BBC College Con
cert Hour with Translator Live In Concert', every
day at 8 a.m., 1 p.m., 5 p.m., and 11 p.m. the 
Radio Calendar, Pittsburghs daily events; 21 
hours everyday FREE FORM. Non-commercial 
musk on WRCT.
Engineeringis your future
its ours too!
The highest engineering standards and 
most up-to-date technical resources 
have been critical influences in building 
Harris RF Communications into a world
leader.
We're a fast-moving, high-technology 
producer of sophisticated radio com
munications equipment and systems. Our 
projects involve some of the newest, 
most advanced technology in the areas 
of RF Circuit Design, Analog/Digital 
Design, Computer Hardware & Software, 
and Communications Systems Design, to
name a few.
And, our Rochester, NY location can pro
vide you with an outstanding quality of 
life-superior cultural and recreational op
portunities in almost any area you may 
be interested in. You'll find spectacular 
sporting events and activities, concerts, 
plays, films, beaches and parks, and
much more.
Like you, we've put a lot into getting 
where we are today. Like yours, our 
future successes will depend upon main
taining the highest level engineering stan
dards. For these reasons, ambitious, 
knowledgeable engineers are an essen
tial key to our future growth. If you're 
degreed in any of the following areas at 
the BS, MS, or PhD level, and are in
terested in a high-visibility, Nghopportunity career, then contact us.
 Electronics Engineering
 Mechanical Engineering
 Computer Systems Engineering
 Computer Science
 Industrial Engineering
To learn all the facts about Harris RF and 
your many avenues for personal and 
professional growth with us, meet with 
our Company Representatives.
We will be interviewing on campus, 
Tuesday & Wednesday, December 7th & 8th, 
in Warner Hall, Room 19.
Contact your College Placement Office for additional information, or to schedule an appointment
HARRIS
An Equal Opportunity Employer. M/F

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanNovember 23, 1982
'fes?rci/'wei''' '
THE LATEST IN ELECTRONIC GAMES/PINBALL MACHINES 
Domestics
12 oi. & 16 oi. cons (& quorts)
STROHS
tOWENBRAU lt.. Ok.,- bottles
MICHftOB
BUDWEISER
MILLER
OLD ENGLISH 800 
SCHLITZ MALT 
IRON CITY 
ERLANGERbottles 
GENESSEE 
ROILING ROCK 
SCHMIDTS 
PABST 
SCHLITZ
PEARL (Texos)bottles 
DOUBLE DARK-bottles 
BLATZ 
PIELS
OLD MILWAUKEE 
PINK CHAMPALE  bottles 
COIT 45 
MILLER LITE 
MICHELOB LITE 
IRON CITY LIGHT
FEATURING 22 VARIETIES OF SUBS *
Steok  Corned Beef  Tuno  Turkey
SANDWICHES
Hoddock  Cod  Ground Steok  Sausage 
Veal  Chuck  Chicken Parmeson
SPECIALTY ITEMS
Steak Subs  Fresh Cut French Fries 
Hot Dogs with choice of 12 condiments 
Ptzza served till 3 om
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
Serving beer Sunday I pm-2 am 
Imports, Cons, Quorts, Draft Pitchers/Mugs 
Your Choice of 6 Droft Beers: 
HEINEKEN  MOLSON ALE  MICHELOB 
STROHS  MILLERS  SCHLITZ MALT
One different 16 oz 6 pk,
featured, each week ,
STROHS  ROLLING ROCK  SCHLITZ 
OLD ENGLISH 800  SCHLITZ MALT  PABST
Imports
BECK'S lt., 0k -Germany 
BASS ALE England 
HARP LAGER-Ireland 
M01S0N GOLDEN Canada 
HEINEKEN U Dk -Holland 
10WEN8RAU Germany 
O'KEEFE ALE Conado 
PILSNER URQUELL  Czech 
KIRIN- Japan 
MACKESS0N STOUT 
OLD VIENNA LAGER 
55 LAGERCanada
ST. PAULI GIRLGermany 
DOS EQUIS XX- Mexico 
JOHN COURAGE England 
WATNETS  Englond 
CARLSBERG ELEPHANT-Den 
CARLSBERG ROYALE - Denmork 
CARLSBERG DARK-Denmark 
TSINGTAO Chma 
HACKER PSCHORR- Germany 
LABATTS-Conoda 
eland MURPHY - Ireland 
onoda COOPER & SON Austroko 
FOSTER S LAGER Australia
DOG SHOPS, INC.
Open
9am-3:45am Sun-Thurs 
9om-4:45am Fri-Sat 
Call 621 7388 or 621-1185 
3901 Forbes Ave. (Oakland) 
Pgh , PA 15213
Die*.me. Tkoco\ 
;
Open Stage
with Gregg Davis
and Debbie Strasser 
every Monday night
9:30  1:00 
At Zdbas
681-39711117 South
CALL 57S-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A
clubs
The Association of Student Chapters of the
American Institute of .Architects (ASC A1A) of 
Camegie-Mellon University has begun this year 
with strong commitment from students inte
rested in enriching their architectural educadon. 
Some of the activities planned by the ASC AIA 
are showings of AIA films on architecturallyrelated subjects, sale of tracing paper, and sale of 
architecture T-shirts designed by students. Events 
that have taken place include a tour of Williams Trebilcock Whitehead, a prominent Pitts
burgh architectural firm. Meetings are held 
Thursday nights, in Room 206 CFA, starting at 7 
p.m. All architecture students are welcome to 
attend.
Pre-Law dub Organization meeting for all inter
ested in a Pre-Law7 Club, Room 225, GSIA, 7 
p.m., Tuesday, November 23.
IEEE meeting Wednesday, December 1, at 4:30 
p.m. in HH 104, Mr. Dave Bickel from HewlettPackard will discuss careers in technical sales. 
There may also be a chance to try out some of 
H-Ps latest products. Refreshments will be 
served. Everyone is welcome.
AIESEC Students from all majors are welcome to 
come to AIESECs weekly meeungs. Be part of 
this student-run international business. Meetings 
are held at 4:30 every Wednesday in Room 11, or 
stop by the office, Skibo, Room 57, anytime to 
leam more about the organization
Allegheny Campus Entertainers of Community 
College of Allegheny County will present Youre 
a Good Man, Charlie Brown. The show opens 
this Saturday, December 11 at 8 p.m. in the Ridge 
Avenue Theatre on the Northside. Other shows 
are on Sunday, December 12 at 3 p.m.; Thursday, 
December 16, Friday, December 18, and Saturday, 
December 18, at 8 p.m.; and Sunday, December 
19, at 3 p.m. Admission is free to the public. For 
reservations call 237-2675 from 8:30 to 4:30 week
days or 237-2736 on weekends.
A choral concert of Vivaldi and Bach will be 
performed by the Bach Choir of Pittsburgh and 
the New Pittsburgh Chamber Orchestra.
The majestic Carnegie Music Hall will open 
its doors for the magnificent Gloria by Anto
nio Vivaldi and two glorious works by J.S. Bach, 
Cantata no. 191 Gloria in Exelsis Deo and Sei 
Lob und Preis mit Ehren.
Max Peterson will conduct the 115 voices of the 
Bach Choir of Pittsburgh and New Pittsburgh 
Chamber Orchestra. Grover Wilkens III is the 
orchestras music director.
The concert will take place on December 1, 
1982 at 8:00 p.m. Tickets will be available at the 
door, $6.00 for adults, $5.00 for students and 
senior citizens.
For more information or for ordering tickets, 
please phone Betsey Fritsch at 681-4302 or write 
to Ralph E. Klingensmith, 181 Aria Drive, Pitts
burgh, Pa. 15220.
The Civic Light Opera is now taking applica
tions for its Summer Apprentice Program. This 
educational program provides professional 
behind-the-scenes training to musical theatre stu
events
dents over 17 years of age.
Throughout the six week summer seasoi 
apprentices work closely with CLO producti 
and administration staff members in such areas 
as costumes coordination, directing, musical 
direction, set design, administration and general 
management.
Applications are now available in the CLQ 
business office, third floor, Heinz Hall. App]1(a 
tions should be completed and mailed with 
resume to the CLO office no later than Februan 
25, 1983. For more information, call the Civiti 
Light Opera office, 281-3973.
The Civic Light Opera has announced pi^ 
minary chorus auditions for its 1983 season. Sing 
ing and dancing ensemble auditions will be helc 
Saturday and Sunday, February 12and 13,1983a 
Heinz Hall. Final call-back auditions will h 
held the following weekend, February 19 and 20 
Applicants should be available both weekends 
Those chosen to perform for the 1983 seasoi 
must join the Actors Equity union.
Applicants and audition appointment time 
are available in the CLO business office, thin 
floor, Heinz Hall, beginning Wednesday 
December 1, 1982. Only 450 auditions will b 
scheduled. No one will be auditioned without 
scheduled time and application.
All applicants must be 18 years or older an 
should supply a resume and an 8 x 10 black an 
white photo. Appropriate apparel must be won 
Singers must present two songs, an up-temp 
and a ballad, in keeping with the style of music 
theatre. Additional information may be obtaini 
at the CLO office by calling 281-3073.
Forbes Gallery Show of prints, drawings, ceram
ics, and paintings by Beth Catherwood, Mary 
Beth Dubyak, Anita Miller, Sarah Ratchye. 
Opening: November 30, 7 to 9 p.m. Hours: Wed
nesday through Saturday 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
SDC presents a winter semi-formal dinner-da nee 
Saturday, December 4. Music by Kaos (formerly 
Tyme). Reservations can be made for tables erf 
eight. A catered dinner will be served at 7 p.m. 
Open to all. Tickets go on sale today, Tuesday, 
November 10, at Skibo Information desk for 
$12.00 a couple. Additional information at Skibo 
desk.
A.S.M.E., S.A.E, Pi Tau Sigma would like to 
invite the campus community to view a quarter 
scale model of the Pratt Sc Whitney JT8D jet 
engine. The model is on display in HH12 until 
the end of November.
November 16, 8:00 p.m.
Junior recital; Amy Hartle, Voice and John Fal
cone, Bassoon; Alumni Concert Hall 
November 23, 8:00 p.m.
Renaissance City Woodwind Quintet; Music of 
Women Composers; Alumni Concert Hall 
November 30, 8:00 p.m.
Percussion Ensemble Concert; Alumni Concert 
Hall
The Alumni Concert Hall is in the College of 
Fine Arts Building. All events are open to the 
public without charge.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

ANYTHIG
ViewpointJohn Cantine
First Portraits: 
Character StudiesprofileAnne-Merle Bryant
that girl poemR. G. Fortune
Untitled poemWard Tietz
8 
The Summer Girl storyAnne E. Daley
12 
City Before it Wakes 
WrackpoemsLouise Croco//
13 
back and forth 
14 
The Unicorn Poem
poem
art
poem
Lynne Schatz 
Mike Mangiafico
Maria Barbuto
Editor in Chief: John Cantine
Design Editors: Amy Morton, Todd Cochran
Assistant Editors: Kelly Culmer, Gregg Hower, Judy Merrill
Production Staff: Beth Bangor, Anita Driscoll, Nanette Marasco,
Jane Oliver, Lenore Voltz

---------------------------------------------------

ViewpointHello, and welcome to Dossier. For those of you who don't know, 
Dossier is an outlet for students' creative endeavors. And this is the 
editor's column, where I, the editor, can spout off about whatever I think 
that you, the reader, should know.
I could write about what's happening in the arts, in modern literature, 
or something else that ties in with what you'll find on these pages. But 
why should you read my opinions on fiction when you can read John 
Gardner's? I think I can, however, talk about the issues facing our 
campus. Since I am a typical student, I think that I can give a typical 
student's viewpoint on some of the burning issues at CMU.
I don't really care what the administration does with their personal 
computers, since I am a senior, and will be graduating long before the 
plan is ever implemented. Personally, I feel that knowledge of 
computers gives a student a better chance at a job, and I wouldn't mind 
having my own word processor when I graduate. On the other hand, I 
wouldn't especially like paying $750 a year for one.
I can see why the administration would like to raise tuition, since I'm 
sure that they have a lot of interesting things to pay for, like the Bureau 
of Mines building, the Robots that will make lots of money for CMU, the 
new computerized library, and stuff like that. Besides, I'm a senior, and 
will be graduating before it goes into effect.
It's no disaster if this university turns back into a trade school. That's 
what it was in th first place. And most trade-school graduates have no 
trouble getting good jobs. Besides, Baker Hall would made a good 
factory to test the Robots that are going to make lots of money for CMU. 
How can a school make money from English professors researching 
literature? Anyway, I'll be long gone before any of this happens anyway.
I don't care about the lack of dorm space, or the possibility of making 
seniors live off-campus, because I already live off-campus, and I won't 
be around to ask for a room next year anyway. Besides, when tuition 
passes $10,000, the overcrowding problem will probably disappear.
I'm sure that the administration will eventually get around to building a 
student union somewhere, maybe in the Skibo courtyards, or in the 
Doherty sub-basements. They would be doing it right now if the school 
wasn't so short of money. Next year's tuition hike will probably take 
care of the situation. And even if it doesn't, I'll be out of school and have 
a job, so I'll have a place to socialize.
It doesn't really matter to me that Phi Beta Kappa turned CMU down. 
What would they do for us anyway? They're just a bunch of snobby 
intellectuals. Even if we did get accepted, would they give us money? 
Would it make us famous? Besides, don't we have enough trouble with 
fraternities already?
Finally, I don't see any student apathy problem on campus. Everyone is 
concentrating on doing their work, getting good grades, and finding 
well-paying jobs. What's so horrible about that? They don't have time to 
waste on campus politics (which are a joke anyway), or their "growth as 
human beings, whatever that means. Besides, I'm leaving in the 
spring to get a job, so even if there is an apathy problem, I don't care.
John Cantine

---------------------------------------------------

4
irst Portraits: Character Studies
5
alty and rich with natives both young and old, the streets of Old Town Providence inspired Karen Honers summer sketch book, and a series of intricate pencil portraits.Rendering her first portraits involved a new way of seeing for Karen, a Freshman design student. Before last summer, she avoided drawing people, viewing portraiture as a test of visual realism. However, a friends photography of elderly city folk convinced her that "physical 
realism isn't always as important as showing 
character.
jraren encountered the old man in1^ "Wasted Wisdom walking along a
JL crowded downtown street. He wasdistinctive not only because of his forrowedbrow and unkempt appearance, but because he was "misplaced, caught amongst all the passers 
by.
"I wanted to put him hade on the docks where he 
belonged, said Karen. "He was an awfully 
rugged and tired old fisherman who had obviously 
worked hard all his life, yet had been softened by 
age.
"Wasted Wisdom captures both the austere pride and deterioration of a crusty old fisherman who has been crafted and worn down by the sea. To counter the down-cast glance and carefully drawn life-lines, Karen has uplifted the old mans shoulders and even the toothless jaw.In her "Untitled piece, Karen chose a viewpoint to emphasize the rounded and sagging body of an old woman, similar to the perspective taken by Rene Bouche in "Elsa 
Maxwell.  And similarly, Karens old woman- particularly in her eyes and hands-reflects a refinement, wisdom and dignity which gives her every right to peer so confidently above her

---------------------------------------------------

"A Look Into the Future 
~w~ jraren displays the same visual and artistic 
li sensitivity to facial definition and to 
-L A- character study in her portrait of a child, 
"A Look Into the Future.'' The little girl sat at a sidewalk cafe and ate lunch with her mom. And Karen had a blank page in her sketchbook: "/ 
turned my head and saw her and said 'Wow, there 
she is, right there for me to draw!* I was in a 
particularly good mood, the atmosphere was right 
and the subject was appropriate. It was just one of 
those moments that was right there for me.
quick sketch was essential. Karen noted
that a child's moods and movements
change so rapidly that sketching forces the 
mind to "think more quickly about how to capture 
a moment. Karens pencil has carefully traced the miniature yet chubby fingers, slighty parted, and the sofly rounded nose and cheeks. The childs loosely-strewn hair and pensive, yet momentary glance give the portrait a hint of kineticism.Karen added, "She seemed to be askingf What's 
going on around me? From a child's naive eye, she 
seemed fascinated to be in a world where everyone 
seemed to know where they were going.''

---------------------------------------------------

that girl
black butch hair 
and white skin 
black leather boots 
black pants 
dark
green coat 
swagger and 
slam 
that girl
r. g. fortune

---------------------------------------------------

in side an estranged state
policeman
with a khaki smirk buttoned
up and down in full size -emup and shutemdown boy
his over keyed seargent says jingling.
sedan 
that was
meant for fast business 
men and Puerto Ricans
years from now when
he's tired
of dealing city slick
with feather haired faggots
and fried food cornering his gut
in white knuckled chases over a hundred
other guys 
couldn't take this 
job he tells 
his mouth breathing 
buck toothed junior
bouncing on knee top
his nerves wear thin
scoring under gun belt and pins
of acceleration
he feels the pulse
in his thick neck and burr head
swell as he stalks the lanes
warped and checked 
by the uniform rolling 
with little grace and service
a beat bar maid shuttles 
balanced beer and bottles 
chattering through the lingering 
aroma of powder 
smoke and sweat left 
by an arcane shooting gallery 
back and so forth.
ward tietz

---------------------------------------------------

8
The Summer Girl
She had long blonde hair, she was the summer girl, and she 
came from some school up North. Her name was Mary, Mary 
Anderson I think, but Viola and Fay started callying her 
Mary Ellen the first day, and they kept on calling her that 
even though it wasnt her name. They did it because they 
knew she didnt like it. Ths first time she was called Mary 
Ellen she smilsci a little bit embarrassed, telling Vi,
 * Oh, no, just Mary.   But then she finally gave up and let 
herself be called whatever they wanted. I didnt call her 
anything, and didnt say much of anything to her except 
when I had to about filing something, or explaining how 
something had to be typed. There didnt seem to be much 
point in talking, she just being the summer girl. Wed 
never had a summer worker before in the three years Id 
been there, just a couple of temporaries now and then. 
Viola had said we didnt need anyone else, but they hired 
the girl anyway. Vi said,  The Countys going to waste all 
the money they can; looks that way, dont it.  *
The first day she came in she said ' Hello  all smiling 
with her blonde hair tied up like she thought she was 
pretty. Vi asked her if she went to school and she said
* Yes, *  and started to go on about where when all of the 
sudden Vi started to laugh. The summer girls eyes got 
wide, and for a moment I thought she might start crying, 
but she didnt. All I heard was that she was going to some 
school in Boston, but I didnt ask which one.
Vi did. Vi leaned forward in her chair and asked in her 
most friendly voice,  So whats the name of this fancy 
school youre going to, girl? 
But she didnt say, she just said,  Its up North. * * 
Then every time that day, and for almost a week after, 
anyone that came into the office that either Viola or Fay 
knew they would stop and introduce her, saying, * This is 
our summer girl, Mary Ellen, and she goes to some fancy 
school up North. (And they would say North long and slow 
like cold honey. ) She  s working here for a couple of months 
so she can help her Daddy pay for school. Now isnt that 
nice?
Mary got a little red in the face the first few times, but 
after that she didnt seem to pay them much mind. Actually, 
she quieted down pretty quickly and just went about doing 
what ever work Vi or Fay gave her. But she always made sure 
she smiled at anyone who came into the office and always 
asked how was their day and could she help them. Viola and 
Fay liked seeing her face get all red, and they would 
always look over at me to see if I was in on the joke. At 
first I would smile back and pretend I thought everything 
was real funny too, but I didnt like doing it and eventu
ally I stopped. I could always tell when they were about to 
look over at me to see if I was in on it, and I dtime it just 
so  Id look at my typewriter, or drop my pen and have to 
look for it, or something like that. I dont think they 
noticed, though, they seemed to be having enough fun with
out me smiling at them. So I let them be.
Viola and Fay had been nice enough to me when I * d started 
working there. I was still in high school and worked part 
time four afternoons a week. They called me the baby and 
would take me aside and explain more than a hundred times 
how to file, like I coulnt figure out the alphabet on my 
own. But I let them go on, and I guess they laughed some at 
me, but I didn  t know any di f f erent. They would always ask 
me if I was going to the prom, if I had a boyfriend, if I was 
planning on getting married any time soon. Viola wouldnod 
her head and tell me,  Girl, dont you be a fool. I got 
married when I was eighteen, right after high school gra
duation, and look at me now. I got six kids and an ass as t}ig 
as the backs i de of a barn. You get yourself a j ob, and don t 
you worry none, youll get yourself a man and kids before 
you know. Youre young, I wish my oldest girl would listen 
to me like you do.  
I  d just sit and listen and nod my head back at her even 
though it drove me crazy hearing her go on about the same 
thing time after time. Fay would chime in sometimes saying 
  I thank the Lord for giving me a beautiful little girl> 
but he could have gone and given me a man that wouldn * t have 
run off after five years.   After I graduated from high 
school the County offered me a full time job. I took it; 1 
didn  t have anything else to do. That was two years ago and 
Vi and Fay still mother me some, but they leave me pretty 
much on my own now that they taught me how to file and I cafl 
fix the Xerox machine by myself if it gets jammed.
a story by Anne. E. Daley

---------------------------------------------------


i The second week she worked, Mary brought in a picture of 
fter and her boyfriend in a little gold frame and set it on 
Ser desk. She seemed really happy with herself, I dont 
know, maybe she thought it was the thing to do or maybe she 
as that head over heels for the guy. She told me his name 
and where the picture was taken, but I dont remember any 
of it. They were on a boat some where and she had her hair 
own all blowing back from her face like she had a fan on her 
ike models do. The guy was tall and had straight black 
||air, and she was leaning on him like a little girl. They 
were both smiling as though they could never hope to get 
heir mouths shut. I carry a picture of me and Joey, my 
oyfriend, that was taken at a dance we went to when we 
irst started going out back in high school. But Im a good 
,mwo inches taller than him and look fat, and my hair is 
hick and matty and wouldnt blow in a hurricane, so I 
idnt show it to her.
I Viola and Fay came in and it was a quiet morning at first, 
Quieter than most. Mondays were usually quiet, though,
14nd I always put the pot on for coffee. It was nice in the 
ff ice then, when we all went about our jobs. Even answer
ing the phone was fun because I  d keep my voice real low and 
Bust about everyone who called would some how get the idea 
Jindtalk just above a whisper. Theyd say  Good morning to 
ou  on days like that. So when Vi let out a screech, I 
^jumped clear out of my seat.
 Will you look at that! Fay, come and see, Mary Ellens 
||ot herself a boyfriend!   And before Fay could put down 
Bhe file she was sorting through, Vi snatched up the photo 
4nd ran across the room with it.
I Right then Mr. Markwood, our boss, walked in the room, 
aybe to see what was going on, and Vi handed him the picBure.  Now isnt that pretty?,   she asked him.
I Mr. Markwood looked plain stupid for a short spell and I 
|fa\ew he didn  t know what all of the fuss was about, but then 
Fay got in on the act.
9  You and your man going to get married, hun? You got 
H ourself a fine looking man, dont let him get away. Marry 
Aim soon as you can and have yourself a bundle of kids. He 
"looks rich, dont he, Vi?  
j  Let me tell you girl, get yourself a man with money. Is 
his his boat? Uh huh, child, get yourself a man like this 
li-nd have a good time.  
Mary sat there like shed been slapped in the face and 
muttered,  But I m going to school,   though neither Vi 
or Fay heard her. When Vi handed her back the photo Mary 
slipped it into her purse, put her purse in the bottom 
drawer of her desk, and went back to typing. All of the 
sudden I felt years older than her. I cant explain it 
really, its just that I started thinking I was way ahead 
of her somehow, and even though I wasnt going to school, 
she was going to have a tougher time of it than I ever would.
The next morning I didnt expect her to show up, or the 
morning after that, but there she was always ready and 
sitting at her desk. I kept thinking thered be a new girl, 
or maybe her desk would be cleared off and used for a table 
again. But she never stopped coming in, though she did stop 
talking. She never said a word to any of us except when she 
had to, and then it was only me shed talk to. Shed wait 
until after Vi and Fay had left the room for their break and 
then shed come over to me and ask quietly,  Which file 
did this come from?,  or some small question like that. I 
would try to be nice to her, answer her quest ion best that I 
could, but after that we didnt have a whole lot to say; 
Mary always made sure she was working on something again 
when the other two came back. There was a time or two, 
though, when I didn  t know what to tell her and she  d have 
to ask Vi. Vi would go on and explain things to her, but 
shed more than answer the question, and I could feel how 
Mary must have been squirming inside trying to be patient 
waiting for Vi to stop telling her things shed already 
been told. Vi and Fay had done it to me, they  d made me feel 
down right dumb sometimes.
There was one time, though, when Mary and I got to talk
ing. It was during lunch hour and we were both headed 
towards the park that was right near our building. I sat on 
an empty bench and was beginning to unpack my lunch of last 
nights fried chicken and a Tab when she walked up and 
asked,  Mind if I join you?  
I didnt see any problem with it and I told her to go 
ahead. She laid out her lunch on the bench and it looked 
like the kind you see mothers pack on TV commercials. I 
said something about the weather, and she asked me how long 
I * d been working for the County.


---------------------------------------------------

* Well, part time when I was a senior, and then lve been 
working here for, oh, about two years since then.  
 Do you like it? 
I wasnt sure what she was getting at. * Its okay for 
now, I suppose. Ive been thinking about maybe going to 
Secretary School and getting a job in a really nice 
office.
 Did you ever want to do anything else? * 
  Oh yeah, when I was a little kid I used to want to be a 
teacher, but I never stuck to the ida.  * Then we went 
about eating our lunches, and I felt like I should be ask
ing her question. * What do you want to do?  
She lit up and answered, Law school. I dream about 
going to Harvard, but I dont think theyll accept me. * 
 Oh,  * I said, and that was it, except for when Mary said 
it was ten minutes to one. There wasnt much else to say.
Two weeks later I had myself a surprise . Mary and I were 
sitting in the lunch room, a spare room they set up with 
some tables and chairs and a refrigerator. This is where we 
went for breaks and where we ate when it was raining like it 
wasnt ever planning on stopping. I liked the lunch room 
because up until Mary started working there I always had 
the place to myself and I could just sit and relax without 
having to answer the phone or even have to look at anybody. 
Not that Mary talked, because she didnt, she just sat 
there reading a book with her feet propped up on an extra 
chair, but I never could feel one hundred percent relaxed 
with her there.
Anyway, there we were, her reading a book and me writing a 
letter to my sister, when Viola walked in. She was always 
taking little breaks so she could go take an aspirin; there 
was nothing like a headache to make Vi happy. She stood in 
the doorway, gave me a quick smile, and turned to Mary. I 
knew something was up, but I pretended to keep writing.
Vi said, * You reading one of you fancy school books] 
Mary Ellen? 
And Mary didnt even look up, she just said, Ud 
yours.*
I had never seen Vi get a look on her face like the one she 
had right then, and I got laughing so hard I nearly choked 
on my chicken sandwich trying to keep quiet. Then Vi god 
over her surprise and got the meanest look in her eyes, 
 You can kiss your ass good-bye,   she all but snarled, 
and then walked out of the room. She didn  t look at me to see 
if I was smiling. Mary kept on like she was reading and 
hadnt heard a word Vi had said, but I could see she was 
staring at the same page. She sat still and straightJ 
except for her hands, and those shook like shed taken a 
chill.
It got to be a couple of minutes to one and I started tel 
cleanup my lunch things and put the letter in my purse, butl 
Mary just sat where she was and stared at her book.
  It *s about one,   I said. I said it sort of indirectly! 
like I was trying to remind myself, but loud enough for hen 
to hear me. She di dn  t move. Then i t got to be a minute or so] 
after and she hadn  t packed up her things. She  d never donel 
this before.
So I stood up and said,   It  s getting after one, Mary. ]
This time she looked up. I began to think I should havel 
just kept my mouth shut and left her alone. She had to have! 
known that Viola had it in for her, and being late woulfl 
only make things worse. When I walked back into the office 
Viola and Fay were standing by one of the file cabinets. Vi 
was talking as low as she could a mile a minute and Fay was! 
nodding her head, saying,  Yes, uh huh.   They stopped! 
all the sudden when they saw me . Vi said,  Youre late, 1 
and left. Fay came over to me and whispered, You! 
shouldnt have laughed like that at Vi, hun.  
The next hour was very quiet, but I didnt get anything| 
done except type the same letter over and over. Mary never! 
did come in. It might sound kind of dumb, but I kept looking 
over at her desk expecting her to be there. I just neveri 
figured shed stop taking it. She must have left by thel 
back door that leads to the parking lot. It took me awhile| 
to realize that she was waiting for me to leave so she could! 
get up and get out of there.

---------------------------------------------------

11
Fingers
curved
Wrists
down
|f* fr*of
The next day was Friday and Joey met me for lunch When 
I-d gotten in that morning Vi said tome, Clean off thlt
done. So that s how it went, me typing the two letters in 
pier top drawer, filling out an insuranoe form, and running
fa0 and forth to the suPPly room with the stapler tan! 
dispenser, paper, rubber bands, paperclips, everythi 
imaginable Whenever the phone rang I - d have to answer i t 
kidnt matter where I was or what I was doing Vi and Do 
ould wait for meGirl, phone > s ringing!? The^d sit 
and watch, and I began to see how things were going to go
Around 11:00 Fay came up to me and said,  Hun, you got 
that report Mr. Markwood wanted typed yet?  *
 No. No, not yet, I  ve  * *
Fay shook her head and let her voice go low,   Vi says you
shouldve had it done by now. I d get on it if I was you. * 
I was running twenty minutes late when lunch time came
around, but Joey was still sitting out front waiting for
me. We stopped at Moreys Pub and bought a six pack, and
then drove down to the lake just outside of town. I didnt
go back to the office. Then, a couple of weeks ago, I sent an
application to the County College. Ive been thinking
about maybe giving up being a secretary and becoming a
nurse instead. Joey says he likes the idea, says I dmake a good nurse.
Elbows 
close to 
body; fore
arms parallel 
to keyboard
Sit back 
in chair, 
body 
erect
Eyes on copy
Book at
right of 
machine, 
elevated 
for easy 
reading
Feet flat on floor 
one slightly in 
advance of the other
Correct Typing Posture

---------------------------------------------------

THE UNICORN POEM
She was a symbol of virginity 
a cheap perfume of insecurity 
Butyou see her sister told us the night 
we were swimming in jars of vaseline 
she was real homy. And then she started 
hanging out in prep bars to avoid the 
unicorns that stood on the comer of 14th.  
We were all looking for rides at the time 
and a guy with teeth of zippers offered 
to drop us off at the monuments. Are 
you into stones tonightTI asked and she 
said No, because they're not going anywhere  
She wasn't always like that  her sister 
again and we wrapped the sheets of kleenex 
around ourselves. Tm sticky and hot and wet 
I knew Fd seen her on capitol hUl 
and I figured that she was screwing her way 
into the Democrats Club. This was before.
She was never into sex. Just calculus 
and the 9:30 Club. Her downfall I suppose. 
She was a good slam dancer. It was near 
Wisconsin and M, she started to tell 
me while applying the magenta lipstick 
to her black starving mouth. Past the 
American Cafe. The metro stopped 
at Lefant Plaza and a very old woman, 
a Commander Salamander's bag on her arm 
thanked the man with the mohawk next 
to her for letting her listen to the 
Human Sexual Re^nonse tapes on his 
Sony Walkman. I used to like Reggae, 
and she blew him a kiss. She wanted Rum Raisin 
ice cream, 1 think, but she walked by every 
Haagendaz. Well that's what she told me which 
is certainly not what she told the man 
Of course. Everything she says makes a good story. 
She likes it that way. So she came to this house
near Visitation and a nun 
found a polite way to ask her why she 
was carrying her diaphragm across campus. 
She had one then? I asked. She's always had one, 
she said circling her tongue around the edge 
of her pink lips before plunging if 
deep in to the bottle. She said she was 
looking for a serpent named Heston. 
The nun said, (He's at Georgetowne now.' 
She thought she'd get to the Potomac but 
she was thirsty and saw a man drinking 
a large glass of a semi-clear fluid on his porch. 
I've got a lot if you'd like some he said 
to her as he slowly massaged the horn 
between his ears before lowering his head.

---------------------------------------------------

13
wo%
e(/ ?
tv. c<?
4 1 v/e
W"/),
?
rv'< '-
 iJV.s
<v.
V
A?%o
*>ftik/>
)A
\% *</<
% <?
y
4?
0/>7 ,, _ -/ /, ~ /?e_^ ^ \ '^Cfk^f Or /. & o/ */. - *"'
o' VA> ^O/*. */>A%%5 VV*<?/
% _ "<*
hf 
%5
! V
e ICM
v/4.:5 -//:s'-w
*- 4
?  Q>, %*x * "Svr
^z, O/o 0/ ^CA
or%%
V
e

---------------------------------------------------

14
' "I
CITY BEFORE IT WAKES
On morning walk 
Mr. Ferguson coaxes cane 
^ to lead in front with
wrist in momentum 
of an artillery 
soldier before told 
to stand at ease.
Passing each tree, fenced 
captive in embrace 
of iron holding fast in 
a lotted spot of 5x5 
square full of healthy 
soot plot beside plot of 
concrete cement, 
no fooling, 
until it happens another 
equally protected tree 
appears in line of measured 
sequence leading 
to corner of Flatbush 
and 0.
Cane continues 
Ferguson follows neglecting 
a notice of pigment 
distinguishing 
one uniform tree with 
monogram of known 
adolescence of stranger's.
WRACK
Louise Crocoll
Snifters aloft 
above draught taps; 
glass excuses for hanging 
before taken down 
to accompany those 
sitting abandonedly, 
empty; reflective 
of diminished 
cigarettes and fingerprints 
of those whose 
ashes have been forgotten.
Louise Crocoll

---------------------------------------------------

back and forth
can't turn around, so you look 
into his eyes, trying for some 
light, a little hope, and oh 
god, it isn't there. You've 
based you life on getting this 
one right, you'd run; still, 
commitments and memories press you.
He keeps staring, dull and 
ravenous. There is constriction. 
There is not even room to pace.
a resurgence, 
welling, you choke once 
again on transformed images 
cursing through, pulsing 
knowing yesterday your life was right 
it was organized, had tucks; 
now so heavy, yours is a dolorous 
desperation, uneven unsteady; 
to break and break, you pound, 
break again and continue 
shattering, eternal fragment 
of decision and self.
lynne schtz

---------------------------------------------------

Editotra
your
MESSAGEEXTRAORDINARY IMAGE
Talk
new MSP1RB) ART
COOLidea.
Send submissions to the Tartan Office in care of Dossier Editor.
Contact us at x2112 or x3567.
