nri k Tirri a t
Volume 80, Number 18 I I Carnegie Mellon University
February 19, 1980 H H I ^^1 Pittsburgh, PA 152T3
Sibley impeached, faces trial
by Jim Balsom
Scott Sibley, President of Student 
Government, has been impeached, reported 
Ralph Sherman, Student Senate Chair
person. The 500 signatures of activities 
fee paying students needed to automatical
ly impeach the President and force him to 
face a conviction hearing were received by 
Sherman on Thursday February 14.
A memo released by Sherman states 
that according to Article Six of the 
Student Government Constitution, this 
will be cause for impeachment. Further, 
according to Roberts Rules of Order, the 
President shall be stripped of his powers, as 
the rules read. . .in any event, from the 
time the accused has been thus notified 
all of his rights as a member of the society 
(except as relate to the trial) are suspended 
pending disposition of the case.
Pat Crump, Treasurer of Student 
Government, led the move to obtain the 
signatures after a motion to impeach 
Sibley failed 8 - 14 - 2 at an emergency 
meeting of Senate last Wednesday.
At that meeting Crump made the 
motion to impeach, citing several reasons 
for the action. He stated that Sibley 
provided next to no leadership with 
regard to the popular issues on campus... 
is hard to find and pin down on any one
specific issue, and ... usually votes against 
popular opinion. Because of these 
occurences, I dont believe our current 
Student Government President is doing 
the job that the office requires and dictates 
he do. I dont think hes representing us 
as we wish.
When questioned about what issues he 
was referring to, Crump replied that Sibley 
had a Poor attendence record, was never 
in favor of the popular issues, was un
informed about current issues on campus, 
uninformed about current issues per
taining to our interests . . . inadequate 
leadership, resistance to the request of 
taking resolutions of Student Senate to the 
White House. That will do for now.
Members of the audience and Senators 
raised questions concerning the impeach
ment charges. It was pointed out that 
because the Senate constitution does 
not provide specific impeachable offenses, 
whatever action was taken by Senate 
would serve to set a precedent for future 
Senates.
When the question of Sibleys poor 
attendence and voting records was raised, 
the secretary pointed out that Sibley 
missed only 3 out of the last 29 Senate 
meetings. Sherman pointed out that the
continued on page 7
See page 7 for CBS correspondent Hottlett's views on the USSR.
Computer policy revised
Housing rates for the 1980-81 year will 
increase by an average of $155 (12}4%) ac
cording to figures given to the Students 
Dorm Council last week (see chart, page 5).
The price of a standard double would 
be raised to $1,300 an increase of $150 
over this years rate. The largest increase is 
for the apaYtment-type accomodation where 
two people share a bedroom. That rate will 
go up to $1,745 for the year, an increase of 
S205. The smallest increase is for a budget 
quad. That rate will go up to $930, an in
crease of $85.
In a memo to the Auxiliary Services Ad
visory Committee, Oscar Mayer, Director 
of Auxiliary Services, cited increases in 
custodial positions, union wage rates, 
fringe benefits and utility costs as reasons 
for the increase which will give housing a 
budget of over $3 million.
The Students Dorm Council will dis
cuss the proposed rates at its regular meet
ing tomorrow night at 7:00 PM in the 
Wherrett Room.
Sibley reports on DC briefing
A mystery
These students found themselves in our first winter snowstorm.
The Computer Policy Committee has 
decided to place usage restrictions on all 
user accounts. According to Statistics Pro
fessor William Eddy, chairman of the 
committee, there are no specifics yet, 
but the limits will probably be imposed on 
total amount of money spent for a given 
account.
The main reason for the implementation 
of the restrictions is the fact that there are 
no plans to purchase any new central pro
cessing units (CPUs) for the coming calen
der year. The object of the new system of 
control is to get down to tfie individual 
user, explained Eddy. He went on to say 
that the committee is not stopping imNew housing 
rates proposed
provement, but taking up the slack 
that currently exists.
Freezing of accounts that exceed their 
allocation is the penalty currently under 
consideration. This means that if a user 
takes up too many pages or uses too much 
CPU time, their account will be auto
matically frozen. In order to regain access 
to an account, the user must then go to the 
person in charge of their allocation to get 
more money.
In a course,this would be the instrustor. 
It is not the intent of this policy to limit 
legitimate educational computing, pointed 
out Eddy, but rather to tighten up on 
people who are playing and wasting. He 
said that he can not imagine an instructor 
not adding to a students allocation if the
continued on page 6
As the president of the student body of 
CMU, Scott Sibley (CE 80) attended a 
briefing for about 300 student body pres
idents at the White House last Friday.
According to Sibley, the main purpose 
of the briefing was to get information to 
students. A strong secondary reason was 
to give Carter administration personnel an 
opportunity to explain and state their case 
for current draft registration legislation.
It was mostly a presentation of their 
ideas, he explained, and their was not 
much time for comment. Some students 
were able to ask questions, arid all of the 
participants were asked to fill out a com
ment sheet.
Sibley commented that he did not 
think it (the briefing ) was meant as a 
political move, and was not unusual, 
given the open policy of the Carter admin
istration. He added, however, that it 
does have political ramifications. He said 
that, ...[Sen] Kennedy supporters were 
waiting for us when we went in, and again 
when we came out of the White House. 
They offered to help make hotel reserva
tions and reschedule airline flights so that 
the student leaders could attend a proKennedy presentation the next morning.
The rnain topics of discussion during 
the briefing were selective service regi
stration, the current situation in Afghan
istan, and energy.
The deputy Director of the Selective 
Service Administration, Brandon Harris, 
said that the point of current registration 
legislation is to increase readiness in the 
event of an emergency, not to reinstate 
the draft. He, and later President Carter, 
both explained that the Selective Service 
System is in the process of being revamped. 
Quotas for individual draft boards will be 
abolished, as will the political gift positions 
on draft boards. They are also trying to rid 
the system of its other sex and race dis
criminations. Contrary to what was re
ported in the New York Times, Sibley 
said reaction to registration was fairly 
evenly divided.
To meet projected short term needs in 
the event of a war, four million draftable 
people must be registered. By registering 
all 19 and 20 year-olds, the Administration 
thinks it will have slightly over that num
ber after deferments. US Post Offices are 
the currently planned registration sites 
according to what Sibley was told.
Zbigniew Brzinzski, National Security 
Advisor spoke to the students in the mornning about the problem of balancing Amer
icas foreign policy. Although the Admin
istration wants to make America relevant 
to a world of unprecedented change, they 
are also interested in improving our geostategic position.
by Ed Frankenberry
John Oakley, 31, has not been located 
since his disappearance on February 2. 
Oakley, a research associate in computer 
aided architectural design, was last seen by 
his wife, Regina Vaccarella, when he drove 
off from the couples home at 4 AM.
He awoke that morning reportedly 
screaming, 1 hate Pittsburgh, I hate 
computer science, I hate architecture! 
His car was found downtown later that day 
with the keys still in the ignition.
Oakley had acted strangely since strik
ing his head on a beam Jan. 19. According 
to his wife,he was totally irrational 
during the second week following the 
accident.
There is absolutely no sign that hes 
alive or dead, said Paul Knueven, a good 
friend. Vaccarella and Oakleys friends 
have called motels and hospitals in the area 
and continue to appeal for any information 
concerning his whereabouts.

---------------------------------------------------

Better Place to be
A former editor-in-chief of the TARTAN wrote a few years back, 
A year of being the TARTAN E-in-C doesnt automatically entitle 
one to be able to come to a conclusionnor does four years of college.
I set out to write a profound reflection on my year as TARTAN 
editor-in-chief, and I somehow stumbled upon that same thought. On 
this relatively small campus, one can easily, and very mistakenly, 
believe that one has the answers to all of the questions. I have learned 
a tremendous amount about CMU, the people who make this campus 
an exciting place to be (and sometimes a not-so-exciting-place-to-be), 
and about myself. Because this is my last chance to fill this editorial 
space, my final opportunity to represent the ideas of a dedicated, 
well-informed group of editors, I will write about why the outgoing 
Editorial Board believes that CMU is indeed an exciting place to be 
right now.
President Cyert
Richard Cyert is a very well respected and concerned leader. He 
believes wholeheartedly in this University and its ideals as an insti
tution of higher learning. In the past, he has been accused of being 
unaware of student needs and concerns, and of being uninterested in 
what we have to say. We have felt free to share our ideas and problems 
as concerned students with him, and not once have we been turned 
away. He is keenly aware of many of our frustrations as students, and 
he sincerely wants students and faculty members to be happy at CMU. 
He is shaping this University into a top institution, and we cant help 
but be excited about whats to come in the future.
H&SS
H&SS, with its successful core curriculum, is offering a more and 
more innovative liberal arts education. Our observation is certainly 
not unique, but worth noting: H&SS students seem to be unusually 
excited about their course work and professors. Its rare to hear a 
complaint by a student about a dull H&SS course, or an unchallenging 
assignment. Colleges and universities all over the United States are 
looking to H&SS to provide a practical alternative to the liberal arts 
education. We think that H&SS will be a very viable model for education in the future. ^Robotics Institute
With a unique combination of research and teaching, CMUs tech
nical colleges have begun to plan a Robotics Institute. The university 
version of joint venture has been born on our campus, and it is 
sure to be the promise for successful research and innovation in the 
future. This Institute will combine the talents of nearly every disci
pline on this campus, and will be a stepping-stone toward unity among the colleges.
The Educational Policy Committee
Dr. Cyert began this committee several months ago to examine the 
current status of educational policy on this campus. Questions are 
being raised about general, versus professional, education and the 
amount of counseling and advice being provided at CMU, for example. 
A relatively new concept is being discussed whereby faculty members 
could rotate research and teaching duties on a yearly basis. This would 
enable faculty to concentrate their efforts on fewer and less diver
sified types of work at one time. Surely this can only serve to benefit 
students and faculty alike in the future.
So what does this an in terms of CMUs future? It is indeed 
an exciting place to be, and those of us who are seniors should be 
proud of the direction our soon-to-be alma mater is taking.
Jean Pellegrini 
Editor-in-ChiefPeaches & Crump
When Student Government Treasurer Pat Crump left last Wednes
days emergency Senate meeting vowing to gain 500 signatures on an 
impeachment petition by morning, it became necessary to question 
his true motives for wanting to impeach Student Government Presi
dent Scott Sibley ( see article on page one). Crump had been present 
at the most organized and well run Senate meetings of the semester. 
He had witnessed an impeachment motion, which he had introduced 
to the floor, fail after much discussion by the Senate. They felt that 
although Sibley had not shown an abundance of leadership, he had 
not committed an impeachable offense.
Sibley was not the best person to represent the CMU students, at 
President Carters student-leader briefing in Washington last Friday; 
however, Senates decision not to impeach him was the right one, 
and it is hoped that Senate now realizes the Importance of moni
toring a presidents performance throughout the term, and not only 
when the students must be represented in Washington.
As for the impeachment petition, it seems that Treasurer Crump 
decided to disregard the Senates decision and take the matter into 
his own hands by circulating an impeachment petition among stu
dents. His thought was that a petition signed by 500 students submit
ted by Thursday evening would block Sibleys trip to Washington. 
This should have been the case because impeachment of the President 
means the immediate loss of all the rights of the office, and this did 
happen at 10:21 PM Thursday.
But Sibley surprised us  he went to Washington anyway. He 
went with the knowledge that he did not have the authority to act as 
our Student Government President, and that he would probably ab
sorb the expense of the trip himself. But he took his chances, think
ing that even admittedly questionable representation was better than 
nothing (White House security regulations prevented anyone else from 
attending the meeting in his place on such short notice).
Sibley faces a possible conviction trial tonight, but the TARTAN 
does not believe that Senators will find the evidence to convict any 
stronger than they did last Tuesday. But perhaps some good will 
come out of these unfortunate events. Maybe now future Student 
Government Presidents will feel more motivated to lead (Sibley 
did display a burst of leadership under the threat of conviction), and 
the student body will see to it that he or she does so throughout the 
12-month term. This will lend credibility to our ailing student govern
ment. Maybe next time we get a telegram from the White House, we 
dont have to panic at the suddden realization that we do not have a 
student leader to represent us.
letters
Thinking not so nice 
Editor:
Ever since he was elected Pres
ident of Student Government,the 
tone of the TARTANs press 
coverage of Scott Sibley has 
ranged from bland indifference to 
blatant hostility. The editorial 
Think Twice (2/12/80) is the 
harshest example to date of the 
latter extreme. It is an unjustifi
able attack on Scotts leadership.
You state that you do not 
feel that Scott Sibley is the 
proper person to represent CMU 
students, but you dont offer 
any alternatives. Who can better 
represent us than our elected
President7 In this pitifully 
suaiified and segregated little 
world called CMU, Scott is the 
closest we can come to a truly 
universal representative. In_ 
another article in the same issue, 
you mention CMUs voice The 
voice of CMU is a horrible caco
phony; it is up to our President 
to filter out the noise and trans
late that voice into understand
able speech.
I cant help but feel that if 
President Carter had invited 200 
student newspaper editors to the 
White House for a special 
briefing, you would be playing 
quite a different tune. In light of
your past attitudes toward Scott, 
I detect a distinct stench of sour 
grapes coming from Think 
Twice. I dont know what 
personal vendettas the TARTAN 
Editorial Board has against Scott 
Sibley, but they definitely should 
not be aired so obviously in 
print.
Finally, you suggest that 
Student Senate hold a special 
election for a student represent
ative to this briefing. Coming 
from the people who denounced 
the hasty referendum on raising 
the Activities Fee, this is out
right hypocrisy. We have already 
held a special election for a stuTARTAN
Volum* 80
Number 18 
February 19, 1980
Editor in Chief: Jean Pellegrini 
Publication Manager: Michael Brzustowicz
Managing Editor: , Brian Byrnes 
Business Manager: Karen Stevens 
Production Manager: Smita Pai
Sports Editor: Perry Colosimo * 
Magazine Editor. Susan Borg 
Photography Editor: Robert Zusman 
Art Director: Tom Hart
News Editor: Doug Kirsop 
Features Editor: Lynn Epstein 
Entertainment Editors: Alan Spero
Melody Mazzie
Contributing Editors: Jim Balsom, Ken Kulak.
Assistant Publications manager: Ed Zayas
News: Beth Arden, assistant editor; Jim Bost, Sue Brillman, Jeanette Bryan, Anne Cesnik, Linda Dickerson, Larry 
Duffee, Ed Frankberry, Chris Gebhardt, Andre Jenkins, Mark Kennet, Ken Kulak. Pete Levin, Joshua Medvin. Elliot 
Ohlberg, Andy Ragan, Vernon Valentine.
Features: Valerie Brandt, Bob Gleason, Robert Harris, Paul Karmin, Norman Katz, Kathy Krummert, David Land, 
Renee Rosenfeld, Leslie Weinberg.
Entertainment: Bill Lazar, assistant editor: Paul Banks, events editor; Kate Bertrand, Bob Henry, Timothy LeVan, Joan 
Livitski, Ted Smits, Karen Stevens, Bob Young. ,
Sports: David Wills, assistant editor; Fran Arsht, Ronnie Ben-Aron, Dave Brandwene, Pat Crump, Frank Pugliano, Scott 
Schatter, Bob Share, Thomas Smith, Lesley Weiser, Craig Woolheater.
Production: Ken Kulak, assistant manager; Michael Brzustowicz, Sue Wilkin, Ed Zayas.
Photography: Chuck Chidekel, Larry Duffee, Jenny Ladd, Skip Stong.
Art: Robert Conroy,Tom Megalis,
Copyright 1980 by the Carnegie-Mellon University Tartan. All rights reserved. The Editorial Board reserves the right to 
edit or withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Government 
of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578-2111 or 2112. 24-hour a<< 
swering service 2113. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111. Printed by Artcrafts Unlimited, Pittsburgh, PA 15206

---------------------------------------------------

views
The following View from the 
Top was written by President 
Richard M. Cyert.
There is a sad article in the cur
rent issue of Science but one from 
which all of us should learn some
thing.
James R. Allen is a 52 year-old 
pathologist at the Univesity of 
Wisconsin Medical School. He has 
an international reputation for 
work in the environmental area. 
In 1978 a woman who worked in 
Allens laboratory as his assistant 
wrote a letter to the University of 
Wisconsin Personnel Office and 
charged Allen with violating the 
regulations of the federal govern
ment with respect to the admini
stration of grants. A University of 
Wisconsin committee investigated 
the charges, and agreed Allen had 
indeed violated regulations, and 
passed the complaint on to the 
Dean of the Medical School. The 
Dean talked with Allen and re
ported to the committee on No
vember 2, 1978, that Allen had 
denied most of the charges and 
that the other charges that he,
had not denied were believed to 
be the result of a misunderstand
ing of the federal guidelines. 
Brown said in his letter, While I 
am fully satisfied by the explana
tion offered by Dr. Allen, I recog
nize that you may not be. Should 
you wish to pursue this matter 
further, it would be necessary for 
Dr. Allen, (the former worker), 
and myself to get together to dis
cuss the problems that she de
scribed. The woman who had 
made the charges originally felt 
that there might be difficulty so 
she wrote to Senator Proxmire. 
He in turn passed the complaint 
along to the Department of 
Health, Education, and Welfare. 
Following an investigation there, 
the issue was sent to the Depart
ment of Justice. In October 1979, 
Allen pleaded guilty to stealing 
$892 from the National Institute 
of General Medical Sciences PostDoctoral Training Grant. He was 
the director of the grant. As a part 
of his plea, Allen described in 
three pages a variety of violations, 
such as going on trips and stopping
in other places to ski but collect
ing expenses on the grounds that 
he had been interviewing candi
dates for post-doctural fellow
ships. He even took his son along 
on one of his skiing trips and sub
mitted expenses for him under the 
name of apost-doctoralresearcher. 
He was given six months of pro
bation and a fine of $4000; he has 
resigned from the University of 
Wisconsin as of this June. He told 
a judge before he was sentenced 
on November 27, I have shamed 
my family, my university, and my 
state. I am seeing some of the 
things I most cherish gradually 
disappear before my eyes.
It is probably safe to assume 
that Dr. Allen could have afforded 
all these trips. I think medical 
school facultys salaries are high 
enough to enable a person to in
dulge in such activities. He be
came a victim of trying to get 
something for nothing. He saw the 
opportunity to cheat, and he be
lieved that he could not be de
tected; so he went ahead, even 
though the sums were small.
There are many opportunities 
in life where a fatal weakness 
shows up; it is frequently a small 
item on which the individual fails. 
The lessen to be learned from the 
incident is not that you should be 
more careful about your cheating 
so that you will not be caught, 
but rather that you should have 
internal standards. All of us are 
subjected to temptations of many 
kinds. A temptation becomes 
great when you are confident that 
you can get away with it.
We have an interesting situa
tion on campus that illustrates 
some of the problems in main
taining integrity in an organiza
tions behavior. A particular piece 
of legislation gives money to a 
university for the support of stu
dents with a certain economic 
position. The definition of the 
economic position is far too 
limited. We, however, interpret 
the law carefully, and, as a result, 
we have to return $20,000 to the 
government this year. We suspect 
that the money may be redistri
buted to other schools that are
not interpreting the law as strictly 
as we are. I prefer to return the 
money and to work to change the 
law. Those of us involved in the 
administration of these monies 
are confident that nothing would 
happen to us if we kept the 
$20,000, but we know that would 
be breaking the law. We have 
taken an action that has caused us 
to lose $20,000 which we badly 
need, but I believe that univer
sity presidents, faculty members, 
and students should be upholders 
}f integrity in our society. That is 
>ne of the reasons why I condemn 
so vigorously sports programs in 
universities that buy athletes and 
why I am proud of the kind of 
athletic program that we have.
I do not mean to imply that all 
of us in this university are para
gons of virtue. I am sure we fail at 
times to live up to the proper stan
dards of integrity. Nevertheless, 
the way to a life of integrity is to 
have ones own standards and to 
try to live up to them. This path is 
the one that I recommend to all 
of you.
lack, for the time being, adequate 
bases in the Indian Ocean and the 
Middle East. Even if they now 
embark on a rapid rearmament 
program to make good their 
failure to keep pace with the 
Soviet armed forces over the last 
decade, it will take them at least 
four years to catch up. The 
American intelligence agencies 
have been hamstrung; the Special 
Service units have been disbanded; 
no American presidential candidate 
would dare, for the moment, to 
reintroduce the draft. Even Presi
dent Carters limited grain boy
cott has met with much opposi
tion. Politically, the Iranian re
gime has isolated itself; it is hard 
to imagine that Americans should 
suddenly be willing to die for 
Khomeini. Concerned scholars 
and peace-loving citizens, cautious 
officials in the State Department 
and militant students would be 
quick to point out that strifetorn Iran might actually benefit 
from Soviet stabilization. From 
a Soviet Marshals standpoint, now 
is the time to strike, before 
the Americans rearm and before 
the opposition solidifies.
History is not predictable. 
Folly, hesitation and incompe
tence are common on the other 
side of the hill, as well as on ours. 
But given Americas present state 
of Western public opinion, we 
should not permit ourselves to be 
lulled into a false sense erf security. 
The 1980s threaten to be dan
gerous years. And we should not 
be surprised if a future headline 
should proclaim, in heavy black 
print: Soviet troops invade Iran."
In recent days the TARTAN 
has felt there is a deep confusion 
in the campus community when 
the world situation is brought up 
as a subject of discussion. We be
lieve that we have a responsibility 
to present alternative viewpoints 
to our own editorial positions, 
and will continue to use our let
ters and op-ed pages as open 
forum for debate. The following 
is a syndicated public research 
article which we believe summar
ized one perception of the global 
concern over Iran and Afghanistan, 
and we hope that it will contribute 
to an awareness on the part of 
each person of the conflicting 
opinions which must be addressed, 
no matter what one'sown political 
orientation might be.
The authors of this piece are 
Lewis H. Gann and Peter Duignan, 
Seniors Fellows, the Hoover Insti
tution, Stanford University.
The weakest link in the West
ern chain of defence is to be 
found, not in North Western Eur
ope, but in the Middle East. The 
area is politically fragmented and 
internally unstable. It is, more
over, an inestimable prize. In its 
secret dealings with Nazi Germany 
in 1940, Moscow insisted that 
the area south of Batum and 
Baku in the general direction of 
the Persian Gulf was theirs. 
They have not wavered in this 
strategic design.
Soviet access to Iran would 
strengthen Soviet naval might in 
the Indian Ocean, menace Turkey, 
Iraq and Saudi Arabia, as well as
dent representative, and Scott 
Sibley won hands down.
Editors note: The TARTAN
stands behind its stories and 
opinions.
War is a Four Letter Word 
Editor:
We as Americans, claim to live 
in a free, modern society. We call
outflank Pakistan. The strategic 
position in the Middle East would 
be revolutionizedin the Soviet 
Unions favorand oil control 
would belong to Russians not 
Arabs.
An occupation of Iran would 
thus have far-reaching advantages 
for the Soviet Union from the 
economic standpoint as well. Sov
iet domestic oil resources are dim
inishing; the U.S.S.R. is techno
logically behind the West, and less 
likely therefore to develop alter
nate sources of power. To the 
Western world, the Middle East is 
vital. Whatever substitutes we 
may develop for oil in the future, 
we now rely to a considerable ex
tent on Middle Eastern oil for our 
prosperity. Without this oil, the 
U.S. economy would be seriously 
restricted. Deprived of Middle 
Eastern oil, the economies of 
Western Europe and Japan would 
collapse. In order to control 
Western Europe and Japan, the 
worlds most highly industrialized 
regions outside the U.S.A, the 
Red Army would not actually 
have to hoist the Soviet flag over 
Bonn, Paris, London, and Tokyo; 
a stranglehold over the vital oil 
supplies would serve the Soviet 
Union just as well, by enabling 
them to force Americas allies out 
of NATO, gain political conces
sions and effectively Finlandize 
V/estern Europe and Japan.
Control over the Middle East 
would also serve Soviet domestic 
ends. The armed dictatorship of 
the proletariat has long since 
turned into the armed dictator
ship over the proletariat, excerourselves civilized. Yet the beliefs 
expressed in Stand Behind Our 
Nation (Richard Arnold, TARJAN Feb 5) do nothing more 
than reaffirm the truth that a 
gqeat deal of our country has yet 
to become civilized.
War is the basest form of bar
barism in existence in todays
cised by a new ruling class of sal
aried party functionaries and ideo
logues. In economic terms, this 
dictatorship has not been success
ful; discontent is rife. Soviet rule 
can be cemented at home, how
ever, by successed abroad that will 
convince Russians and foreigners 
alike that the regime, for all its 
failings, is irresistible, and that it 
is useless to swim against the tide 
of history.
Moreover, the Great Russians, 
the Soviet Unions leading ethnic 
group, are becoming a minority 
within the nations border. Given 
the high birth rate of the coun
trys Asian population, this pro
cess will speed up; in future a 
steady increasing proportion of 
Red Army soldiers will be Mus
lims. The strength of national 
sentiment is increasing among the 
minority groups. Soviet control 
over the independent Muslim 
states would not solve the Soviet 
Unions internal problems, but 
might at least lessen the threat of 
outside subversion from militant 
Islam.
From the military standpoint, 
an occupation of Iran should be 
no more difficult than the occupa
tion of Afghanistan, provided it is 
carried out with speed, surprise, 
and overwhelming force. Not for 
the Soviets the American strategy 
of sophisticated pressures, and 
slowly accelerating advance ap
plied in Vietnam. Given the geo
graphical proximity of the Sov
iet Union, given its military super
iority over NATO in the conven
tional field, given their new abil
ity to move troops, arms and supglobal society. And anyone advo
cating war can be nothing but a 
barbarian in doing so. In the afore
mentioned article Mr. Arnold call
ed those in opposition to war 
idealists and dreamers. If I 
am a dreamer, so be it. I can 
take no offense at that title - this 
country Was built by dreamers.
plies in large numbers by air, 
given their new bases in Afghan
istan, the Soviet High Command 
should be able to expect a rapid 
success.
Would not Islamic guerrillas resist 
the infidel to the death? Would 
not the U.S. intervene? Iran is a 
fragmented country. Its admini
stration is shattered; its armed 
forces have become ineffective; 
factions fight against factions; 
mobs dominate the capital; the 
ethnic minorities are in a state 
of uproar. The Tudeh Party, a 
loyal proMoscow communist
party, is small, but well
disciplined and would make an 
admirable Fifth Column. Iran 
would no more likely become a 
Soviet Vietnam than Afghanistan. 
As every Soviet strategist knows, 
the Vietnam war was not won by 
guerrillas, but by the employment 
of conventional forces; it was a 
massive deployment of North 
Vietnam armored divisions that 
finally crushed the Saigon regime. 
The Soviets are not strangers to 
the art of using militant Muslims 
for their own end. The initial 
revolutions in Afghanistan and 
South Yemen were started by 
militant Muslims at the time when 
the communist party called for a 
historic compromise between 
revolutionary Islam and 
Marxism-Leninism. This compro
mise then ended, in the best 
Leninist fashion, with the liqui
dation of the communists erst
while allies. Khomeini can probab
ly expect a similar fate.
The Americans, for their part, 
are ill placed to intervene. They
Idealist? The view of war ex
pressed in Stand Behind Our Na
tion is as idealistic as anything I 
could possibly imagine. In Mr. Ar
nolds ideal war, big brave Ameri
cans fight unceasingly against the 
evil, sub-human heathen they call 
enemy in the sacred fight to pre
serve the American way of life 
the ultimate good. This theme is 
getting old ; weve all seen it exact
ly as stated through the eyes of 
Hollywood in countless war films 
made during war decades such as 
the forties in order to urge Ameri
ca on in her latest War To End 
All Wars.
Stand Behind Our Nation

---------------------------------------------------

SPIRIT PRESENTS
NOW
A TRIBUTE TO BLACK ARTISTS
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22
7:30 P.M.
SKIBO BALLROOM
$1.50
FUNDED BY SENATE
SPIRIT AND CAMPUS PROGRAM PLANNING
PRESENTS
CONGRESSMAN 
JOHN CONYERS
DEM MICHIGAN
CRIMINAL JUSTICE
WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 26
8:00 P.M.
SKIBO BALLROOM
FUNDED IN PAKT BY SENATE

---------------------------------------------------

Gaetano Pesce: the problem is to 'enrich ourselves9 our world9
- ; %
an exploration of 
identity through the 
construction of an 
 object
 . a
Through his class, Gaetano Pesces 
prominent desire is to instill in his stu
dents the necessity of interrogation 
about ones self. He describes himself 
through a highly existentialist view, consid
ering himself neither artist, designer, nor 
architect all of the time. He labels his 
discipline in regard to a specific project 
and the process of executing the final 
product. Whether creating as an architect 
or a designer, Pesce expresses himself 
from the inside, placing the responsi
bility to himself as a person above that of 
the public.
Although this sounds egoistic, as 
Pesce himself put it. he ultimately believes 
that the problem is to enrich ourselves.
Pesces idea of a story-telling object is 
best expressed in his woman chair. 
This is an inflatable chair in the form of 
a reposing woman, but the key to the story 
is found in the ball-shaped footstool. 
Symbolizing the bondage of women (ball 
and chain), the chair not only expresses an 
idea, but is also visually appealing, econ
omical, and displays the use of current 
technology in both materials and 
packaging.
Reflected in the woman chair are 
many of Gaetano Pesce's basic beliefs. 
To be contradictory. show the opposing 
elements of reality, is a quality that is in
herent in the chairthe beauty of a woman 
and the ugliness of bondage. In other 
words, Pesce creates a beautiful object that 
symbolizes an ugly reality. Due to packaging 
and form, Pesce also displays the necessity 
of finding new ways and means of con
ceiving of space; ways that, moreover, 
possess all that the former system did in 
terms of technical qualities.
Pesce strives to portray a sense of real
ity through all of his designs. By taking 
the design of a spring-arm lamp and inflah <%m'& * m t H -lid 3 4 4 *  i  4 2'4  * *4* 4 i -
by Lynn Epstein and Renee Rosenfeld
The CMU community received its first 
taste of the unbridled talent of Gaetano 
Pesce with the opening of the Design issues 
Lecture Series, on February 6th. Pesce 
has brought an astounding sense of inspir
ation to the CMU Design Department. 
Through the creativity in the projects he 
produces, the Italian architect-designer 
painted an overwhelming portrait of his 
work and his philosophy of personal com
munication. A striking figure, tall and 
with a definite sense of presence, Pesce 
stirred the spirits of his audience through 
his work and personality.
The vitality that accompanied Pesces 
lecture did not begin and end that night in 
Porter 100. Together with his assistants, 
Jean Luc and Pierre, Pesce will be teaching 
a junior level industrial design course, 
(Professional Area Project), and will be 
in individual contact with the members of 
the class. His seminar focuses on the ex
ploration of identity through the construc
tion of an object, and during his month
long stay he hopes to teach students to 
express a unique aspect of Pittsburgh in the 
form of an object, allowing each student 
to choose his own object. Pesce, his assitants, and Professor Alessandro De Gregori will also design projects, enabling 
them not only to better convey ideas 
and processes, but also to work on com
mon grounds with the students.
ting its size to be used as a floor lamp, 
the lamps common style becomes impos
ing. Pesce has taken a familiar reality and 
through a re-design forced the audience to 
accept or reject the significance of the 
reality.
These ideas are also demonstrated in 
Pesces architectural designs. Although 
there must be regard for function, arch
itecture is not construction. It is an inter
rogation about the time in which we live. 
After the modern school, architecture be
came something to only sell. Today we 
have to come back to the idea that arch
itecture is our language to express our
selves,like a writer. There is a difference 
between architecture and building.
Pesces.purpose in all his endeavors is to 
reflect the times. Time and staying in 
constant contact with time is essential for 
communication. One must design right in 
the time, not in the past or future. To 
do this there are many concepts which the 
designer or architect must understand. 
Time changes every moment. If we dont 
change we are like a rock, a stone. We 
cant be coherent, because if we are with 
the times, we have to change with the 
times. There must be contradiction in 
work, because things become contrary of
One must design 
right in the time,  
notin the past 
or future
what they were. Pesce stays in contact 
with the times by talking with people, in
cluding his students, in informal surround
ings.
These philosophies of incoherence and 
contradiction are strictly in tune with
nally. Because being coherent suggests 
thinking systematically, a designer whose 
works show coherence is not yet a per
son. Following and accepting the rules of 
a system allows for no form of interroga
tion, and denies the individual the freedom 
to be oneself.
Although Pesce feels that current trends 
in architecture and design are beginning to 
move in accordance with his philosophies, 
he states that our education today will
fully excludes all that might prepare us to 
face new horizons. The rebuilding is diffi
cult. He envisions an ancient Greek-like 
education rather than the programmed 
systems that exist today. I dont like to 
teach. he says. I prefer to go in the 
coffee shop with one, two, or three stu
dents like in Greece times. Through this 
method of informal question and answer, 
the student is able to make discoveries 
about himself and his world, an oppor
tunity which is not available or does not 
fit into most curriculums.
In the project that Professor De Gregori 
and Baetano Pesce jointly assigned to the 
junior industrial design PAP class, there is 
a structure that, at the same time, allows 
the student leeway to express himself.
conti nutd on paga 12
; $ I A H 4 stj w a# mM kWh % % i S H It ^ IJr#
our world. This view is, in fact, not con
tradictory, because we must know our
selves before we can know the needs of 
others. Each of Pesces~works has a story 
to tell, a personal belief which only a cer
tain group of people will truly understand. 
But it is not, according to Pesce, necessary 
to perceive the story; immediate like or 
dislike should be the basis of appeal.
We must know our
selves
before we can know 
the needs of others
Pesces primary goal: to be a person. In 
his explanation of what it is to be a per
son, Pesce points out that the individual 
and the person are different. An individual 
shows external differences, while the per
son has an understanding of himself inter.. architecture is
our language to
express ourselves 
f

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10TARTANFebruary 19,1980
HEY MONA!
Why the 
Gioconda smile???
3529 FORBES SPECTACLES
AVENUEOAKLAND, PA. (JC J. 2
621-4949
Electrical Engineering 
and
Computer Science Majors
San Francisco Bay Area Computer and Computerized 
Telephone Equipment Manufacturer seeks talented 
individuals interested in:
 Telephony
 Microprocessor Applications
 Digital and Analog Design
 CPU and Memory Design
 Real Time Systems Software
 Data Communications Software
 System Programming Languages
 Hardware/Software Interfacing
 Test Engineering
 Production Engineering
 Field Engineering
ROLM Corporation, located in Santa Clara, 
California, has grown 50  100% each year and 
currently has 2600 employees. ROLMs Tele
communications Division is the leading indepen
dent supplier of computerized PBX's (CBX) and 
microprocessor controlled telephones. ROLM's 
Mil Spec Computer Division offers a complete 
line of rugged general purpose minicomputers.
Included in ROLM's outstanding benefits 
package is a three month paid sabbatical after 
six years (and every seven years thereafter). 
Company paid tuition and time off for Graduate 
Study at Stanford, and flexible working hours.
(SOn Campus Interviews
Friday, March 14, 1980
nri with Working Hardware and Software Engineers 
from ROLM in the Placement Canter See our Company 
Literature in the Placement Center.
If unable to attend an interview.
send resume to
Gibson Anderson 
Engineering Group Manager 
ROLM Corporation 
4900 Old Ironsides Drive 
Santa Clara, CA 95050
We are an equal opportumty/aflirmative action employer
CORPORATION
collegiate crossword
ACROSSDOWN
C ORPAT
I NEddwa aRarPJ
Cu lPiPRAAPs PoeoCg tPr W7WJr
C9 -5mcrr WdT ncarPAAc 
S(aRhWA )b .Taov
CI GPeJPP cH hcSF
7PrPdhPCV LR7PJ
bM fPrP ,,,
bb yWJr cH acSP 
ahRPdhP hc(JaPa
bB kcrcJRc(a PD(PaF
rJRPddPbu p(WJr* iWJRPrE 
bI ZWrrPJUcJds Poeo
BC -hrJPaa ,,, -ddfcJeBB 4JPdhU 7Jcdc(d
B8 NPaa TcdP
B9 t7RJRr(WA J(Rd
BV 0<UP tUPR; cH ,,,0
8M LchWA 7W(aPa
8C PAA,;dc.d 2deARaU
7URAcac7UPJ
8b kWSP HcJ W 'PJSWd 6 .PW7cd )b .Taov
88 4AReUr 7WJr8u d rUP 1
8g t.Rde WJc(dT
89 3cTRWh aRed
8I ncSScd NWrRd 
W55JPiRWrRcd
uM l(aaRWd WdT n*PhU 
AWde(WeP HWSRAE
u8 Oc(dearPJ
ug f(RATRde 5Ach; Rd 
-JR*cdW
u9 0,,, W 4(eRrRiP
HJcS W nUWRd 'Wde0
gM "WJiWJT>a Ca UReU
gB G(dhWd cH TWdhP
gu 0,,, WdT AT NWhP0
gg tReda cH 5cTE 
Rdm(JEg9 LWh((S r(5P
gI 4cPSPd
C ZRaa <PWaTWAPb 0<JRdRrE0 W(rUcJ
B kRh;dWSP HcJ 0"ReU kccd0 arWJ
8 ZWdeE hJRrrPJu 27AcRrRde
g ycARrRhWA WrrRr(TP9 cJ; .RrU UWRJ
I ncdiPJaPAE )b .TaovV 4JPaU 11 TWRaE
CM <UP UPWT)TRWAo 2deov
CC WArPJ ,,, GRadPE
Cb yJcHPaacJRWA APWiP
CB 1 -ddP TP fPW(7JP
C8 nUWARhP iPRA
bC tPWr cH t(HHcA; 
nc(drEs koOob8 -ddP
bg lW. JPhJ(Rr
b9 t7WdRaU ScdPE
bI 4Rr HcJ rRAAWeP
bV nWAH hWrhUPJ
BM yJWhrRhWA 7PJacdBb 6a (dTPJ rUP .PWrUPJ
Bu G.RdTAP
Bg 'RdePJ WAP WTTRrRiPaB9 yPPiRaUdPaa
BI 6dHWdr8B 0<JPWa(JP 6aAWdT0 ScdceJWS
8V 6d W 5Rr
uC GJPaa HW5JRhub kcJW "PASPJwa hJPWrcJ
uB GPaRaruu ,,, GP NW(JPdrRRa
u9 0-JW5RWd kReUra0 
d(S5PJuI 2deARaU hcS7caPJ
uV yWJr cH PShgM dP cH W JPrJR5(rRcd 
7WRJ
gC t(HHR HcJ arJRhr cJ 
TP7Rhrgb t(HHR HcJ 7AWdPr cJ 
SPrPcJ
g8 LWe(P
CMU will be 'pushing up daisies'
Lay that sucker down! 
Sex, booger, booze. 
Fuck all of this, Im leaving!
 /. M. P.
If you are the type of person who likes 
fresh vegetables, likes beautiful flowers 
and a bright environment, and enjoys 
working outdoors, the Community Garden 
Program (CGP) has a proposition for you. 
For the 1980 growing season, the CGP 
is planning a community garden for the 
CMU campus.
The area that will be used is across Jhe 
street from the US Bureau of Mines Build
ing along Forbes Ave. A total of 550 sq. 
ft. will be available to CMU students, 
faculty and staff. The only stipulation is 
that the plot must be maintained.
Tilling, fertilizer, manure, water and a
variety of seeds will all be provided for a 
registration fee of $5, but the individual 
gardener is welcome to plant whatever he 
choses, within legal limits.
The simple act of raising vegetables in a 
community garden provides many benefits, 
not the least of which are beautifying 
neighborhoods and producing nutritious 
food. CGP also offers an opportunity to 
conserve resources and participate in a 
social and recreational activity through 
its gardening program.
Anyone who is interested should call 
Jeff Gerson at 681-9191 for more informa
tion.
"Unh uhn, no way, 
not on the front page, 
it looks like shit."
Edward Julius Collegiate CW79-5

---------------------------------------------------

February 19,1980TARTANPage 11
Why McDonald's is your kind of place: they do it al I for you
(CCRS)The genius of silver-haired, Most problems take the form of contra- set up by Ma Bell. The hapless first store from fries to an entire dinner, depending 
ctpplv-eved Rav Kroc. now Hamburger dirtinnc hptwppn hamknrMrAiAm; nn tViA tSconVirvrti tViA AtiP Oil th offfitlSG
(CCRS)The genius of silver-haired, 
sieely-eyed Ray Kroc, now Hamburger 
King but once a paper-cup salesperson, 
is amazing. In less than two decades he 
parleyed a multi-mixer shake machine, 
a formula for the perfect french fry 
and fledgling operation run by the brothers 
McDonald into an American Institution.
And like every American institution, 
the McDonalds Formula has taken root 
in and tapped all facets of modern-day 
society. The chain capitalized on the pop
ulation shift in the 1950s from cities to 
suburbs; for the first time most people 
lived outside of cities, farms or towns. 
The 1945-1955 baby boom provided many 
easily-influenced hungry mouths and a 
focal point for expansion of the 
McDonalds market.
McDonalds grew'concurrently with an 
increase in leisure time and mobility for 
most Americans and with the massive ex
pansion of high ways. The fast food indus
try benefited from an increase in working 
wives and mothers only too willing to pick 
up a bag of hamburgers on the way home. 
And, as the McDonalds organization ex
ploded on the American scene, more and 
more women were working at the restau
rant which Kroc said is synonymous with 
Sunday school, the Girl Scouts, and the 
YMCA.
These day ladies (McDonaldese for 
women workers) and college students make 
up just a part of the vast Mac work force. 
The bulk of those guaranteed to smile, an 
estimated 150,000 in 1976 by Max Boas 
and Steve Chain in their book Big Mac, 
is made up of teenagers. The workers are, 
without exception, started at the minimum 
wage, with increases of a nickel or a dime 
per hour after performance reviews.
Although many would agree with Paul 
Meister, an AFL-CIO organizer, that That 
son of a bitch (Ray Kroc) has been robbing 
every kid in the country, attempts at 
unionization are deflected in the United 
States by benefits such as tickets to 
sporting events, and employee rap ses
sions, at which management is always 
represented to discuss grievances.
Even obtaining the minimum wage 
must be considered a victory for McDon
alds crew employees. In June the U.S. 
House of Representatives rejected a bill 
known as the McDonalds Bill which 
would have exempted 16 and 17-year-old 
employees from minimum wage regula
tions. The bill had the strong support of 
then-President Richard Nixon, the recip
ient of a $200,000 contribution from 
Kroc in the 1972 re-election campaign.
But perhaps the greatest contributions 
to the chains success lie not in its large 
political schemes but in its striking con 
formity and standardization.
Most problems take the form of contra
dictions between hamburgerology ideo
logy and providing the Quality, Service and 
Cleanliness touted at Hamburger High 
(Many areas have training sessions similar 
to the courses managers take towards a 
Degree in Hamburgerology from Ham
burger University in Oak Brook, 111.)
Although teens provide the life-force 
of McDonalds success, every effort is made 
to discourage their rowdy presence in 
the restaurants. This effort is reflected in 
the advertising, which centers on the fam
ily and is directed at the children in the 
knowledge that wherever they head, Mom
my and Daddy will surely come in tow.
Americans indoctrinated with the* cult 
of efficiency must admire the complexity 
of the McDonalds operation. Cooking 
time for fries is measured by nothing 
less than a french fry computer, which is 
matched by a filet of, fish computer, not 
to outdone by a meat-cooking and bundressing format which matches the finest 
choreography for timing. Ice in beverages 
is to come to the bottom of the arches, 
each cup has its own lid, and woe to the 
employee who puts seven items in a sixitem bag.
Once this complexity of items in bags 
.is sorted out, the bag is be to closed with a 
double fold and the order is to be present
ed to the customer with arches facing out
ward. But not before a product is suggest
ed to maximize the order. And, of course, 
follow with steps five, six and seven: re
ceive payment, thank the customer and ask 
for return business.
Even management does not escape the 
spiral of conformity. Theirs is the task 
to determine how well the yields are 
conforming to strict company standards. 
The meat-to-bun ratio had better tally, 
which must correspond with the number of 
cans of secret formula Big Mac sauce 
used, which should meet the lettuce quota. 
(One manager solemnly informed the crew 
that we were using, and losing, too many 
coffee stir sticks in proportion to the cups 
of coffee sold.)7 IThe amount of food wasted is another 
managerial headache, for not wasting 
enough is a sign of poor-quality food being 
served to the customer. If the waste fig
ure is out of line, you can be sure that this 
month-the fugures will be adjusted, and the 
directive handed down to throw out more 
next month.
Everyone knows McDonalds quality, 
service and cleanliness is always perfect, 
but its just a bit more perfect whenever the 
Mac Bus bulging with company execu
tives or field inspector drives into the lot. 
This perfection requires an advance com
munication network which rivals anything
Whos Hughes?
Rrst to develop a synchronous-orbit satellite, Syncom, 
initiating the whole era of space communications.
First in high-technology electronics.
Your first employer after graduation, perhaps! Before 
graduation, ask your placement office when Hughes 
Aircraft Companys recruiters will be on campus.
I HUGHES ;
L......................----- 'Creating a new world with electronics
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F
set up by Ma Bell. The hapless first store 
on the circuit telephones the others; one 
can be sure the news evokes a frenzied re
sponse.
An orderly progression for employees 
down the McDonalds path of recognition 
is deemed the ultimate reward for com
plete adherence to McDonalds dictates  
from crewperson, to All-American, to crew 
chief, the swing manger, etc. after all, 
certificates are cheaper than money.
' And, somehow, the customer becomes 
an extension of that stainless steel counter. 
If you dont believe it, try ordering a filet 
of fish with Big Mac Sauce and lettuce. 
But, no matter, any customer relations 
difficulties can be settled with the issu
ance of a Be My Guest card for anything
from fries to an entire dinner, depending 
on the offense.
Having nearly saturated domestic mar
kets, the golden arches now extend over 
seas to all continents. Those in search 
of the perfect blandburger can now order 
in French, German, Japanese, Spanish 
and Australian English. The company has 
been forced to make a few modifications 
along the way, though. Ronald has become 
Donald in Tokyo to accommodate the 
Japanese tongue, and Big Macs are again 
called Big Macs in Paris after blushing 
company execs realized that the French 
equivalent Gros Mec means big pimp.
Theres now a McDonalds in Hiroshima 
not far from where the first atomic bomb 
was dropped. Theres just no improving 
on the American way.
New show opens at Forbes St
by Annie Patterson
Boy, oh boy, oh boy, folks, what abso
lutely beautiful, exquisite, and really 
great stuff is being shown at Forbes Street 
Gallery this week! James Weigle, Christine 
OLeary, and Gregory Cramer are showing 
their prints, paintings, paper pieces, weavings and sculptures.
IN THE BEGINNING he created the 
heaven and the earth. Well, actually, he 
started out being interested in painting. 
The slight connection with heaven and 
earth is that with his recent lithographs, 
Jim Weigle has worked with imagery 
from Genesis. One of his pieces, a 3x5 
foot print, deals with the Genesis verse, 
where God made the firmament and di
vided the waters. It shows a mound of 
grey-brown cork-like earth floating above 
a strip of the same earth. A sky blue 
background creates a calm, open space, 
smooth and clear, while white cloud forms 
extend up from behind the floating 
mound. These cloud-like shapes are spiral 
column shaped, or similar to the inside 
section of a sliced tomato, only white. 
Besides his litho and silkscreen creations, 
Jim is showing some earlier paintings of 
pitchers. He repeats this form and gives 
each pitcher its own character; we see 
almost a slow motion movie, a repeated 
image from several angles.
Chris OLearys enchanting and beauti
ful paper pieces cannot truly be appre
ciated until one realizes that she makes 
her own paper. Its a process of dipping 
a screen into a hemp pulp bath. Essen
tially shes creating colored beauty from 
fibrous material. Every piece is different, 
but her meditative and loving approach is 
there in each. One striking work has 
crimson paper and fibrous strands mounted 
on black muslin. Elegant strands of dipped 
string and gold thread provide several 
horizontal lines  a royal landscape of dyed 
fiber. Chris uses her paper strands with 
string to create woven feathery images. 
This is where her weaving background has 
influenced her recent pieces. Rich colors, 
delicate threads, handmade paper all com
bine to produce beautiful images.
Greg Cramer is both a sculptor and 
weaver who loves tackiness, and yet hes 
one of the few artists with the tacky infa
tuation syndrome that really does fantas
tic work. His nose sculptures, for instance, 
are great images. He deals with noses in 
landscape situations, as treasures among 
ruins, as jewels in a cigar box; you name 
the nose, hell ham it up! Gregs weavings 
are brightly colored and contrasting, rang
ing from mommoth hangings to smaller 
ones, like his punk piece, The B-22s. 
The weaving process involves hand dying 
the rope, weaving sometimes several in
dividual sections and then tying them all 
together.
All three of these artists are absolutely 
fantastic, and you definitely will enjoy 
the show! Their opening is tonight (with 
food, drinks, and harp and flute players 
entertaining). Dont miss the Forbes 
Street Gallery show this week with Jim 
Weigle, Chris OLeary, and Greg Cramer.
Features staff meeting 
Wed. Feb. 20 7 PM 
Skibo Rm. 50
IRON CITYSCHTZBUDSCHMIDTS 
CHAMP ALE STROHS GENESEE ROLLING ROCK SCHLITZ MALT BALLANT1NE ALE MILLER LIGHT MICHELOB PABST MILLER COLT 45
GENESEE CREAM ALE BUSCH
SCHUTZ LIGHT
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak SubsSERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM - 2 AM 
QUARTS - MUGS - PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF  DIFFERENT DRAFT BEERS
MUf M. COLT 4& MOt SOM All lOWiNMM OAftK 
ST*OHS MNCHEN LIGHTOne *Htrmt ttoiSpH ttitwM ttch MM 
SCHLITZ  PASST 
SCHLITZ MALT  strohs * ROLLING ROCK 
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO ADVER
TIZE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
 SMCiAirv m rT aFRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES  PIZZA SERVED TIU 3 AM HOT OOGS CHOICE OF 1? DIFFERENT C0N0IMENTS 35 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES
--------------- IMPORTS -----------------
HOT DOG SHOPS. INC 
621-7388 o621-1185
BASS ALE England 
DOPT HANSA Garmany 
SAM MIQOEL PWpa*aa
 SPATE N8RAU Garmany 
ST PAUL) QML Qwwy 
PILSNER UPQUELL 
GUtNESS STOUT Irafcnd
 DAS XX EQLHS Maiico
 WURZ BURGER Qwwy HARP LAGER Iratand 
LOWENBRAU Garmany 
O KEEFE ALE Cawda
 DINKEL ACKER Germany TECATE Maxico 
ISENBECK W Garmany 
IRYSTALL Italy
MACKE SON England
KMN Japan 
PERONIIWy 
RK5NES Nonaay 
BECKS Garmany 
HOFBRAU Garmany 
ZYWEC Potoid 
KRAKUS Pdand
 SUPERIOR Manco FiwifcRS Auafrtoa 
HE INE KEN Holand 
MOLSON ALE Canada 
PAULANER Garmany 
GOSSER Auatna
 T ANKARO London
 UNION W Garmany 
PALE ALE London 
ONKEL Garmany
 WARFTEINEL Garmany
3901 FORBES AV (OAKLAND) PGH. PA 15213

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12TARTANFebruary 19,1980
IF YOU MISSED
If you missed 1957 you missed the Russians launching Sput
nik I into earth orbit. You missed seeing a young singer 
continue his rise to the top of the record industry with a song 
called Jailhouse Rock. You missed the ballyhooed introduc
tion of a car called Edsel. And you missed the birth of an 
k industry when a group of talented young engineers and 
scientists formed the nucleus of Fairchilds 
semiconductor operations.
Though you missed the beginning 
  yu havent missed the future. Talent, enthusiasm and hard work can ta^e yu as ^ar todny as it did 
*n 1957. Maybe even farther. Today, 
with the vast resources of our parent company, 
Schlumberger Limited, Fairchild is committed to 
technological leadership and innovation. And while 
were pioneering new technologies, we are also creating
new career enrichment and emVployee benefit programs.
^ Fairchild has exciting career openings on 
both the West and East Coasts, 
ajjjjWell be on campus in the next
week or so and would like to talk 
to you about the future. Yours 
and ours. Visit your placement center for the time and 
place. Its an opportunity you wont want to miss.
A Schlumberger Company
YOU WONT WANT TO MISS NEXT WEEK
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A
continued from page 9
Each member of the class is free to present 
an interpretation of what Pittsburgh means 
to him, according to his own experiences 
and conceptions. For example, one stu
dent chose to represent Pittsburghers love 
for beer, as well as an awareness of their 
American heritage. By designing a rockinghorse in the shape of a pop-top with a sad
dle seat, the goal is accomplished: the poptop for beer and the saddle for the cow
boys of our history. Another project 
depicts one of Pittsburghs most popular 
foods  the hoagie. With the roll forming a 
sofa shape and the filling serving as pillows 
or cushions, the hoagie becomes a part of 
everyday life, and manages to reflect the 
personality of Pittsburgh residents through 
their food preferences.
Several of the projects center on indus
tries native to Pittsburgh such as US Steel, 
Heinz and the Pittsburgh Paints, but all 
reflect a personal view of the city. Pesce 
and De Gregori will be working with the 
students to help them display the philoso
phies of time, incoherence, and contra
diction in thier projects. As Pesce adds, 
You have to show something possible. 
But we must show happiness with our 
work. Liberty, something different.
Whether it be through his teaching, 
design or architecture, Pesce is striving to 
communicate that conformity means to 
deny a part of ourselves, and therefore not 
to be free in ourselves. Sameness equals 
bondage. Awareness of ourselves and our 
world is the only pathway by which this 
may be achieved, and Gaetano Pesce is 
continually working to unravel these 
puzzles and reveal them through his de
signs to the public.
Throughout the week, Gaetano Pesces 
work will be on display in the Design 
Gallry on the 3rd floor of Baker Hall. 
There will also be a showing of class pro
jects on March 3, which will take place in
Conformity means 
to deny apart of 
ourselves... Same
ness equals 
bondage. 
the same gallery. For those architecture 
students who are interested in Pesces 
architectural designs, he has on hand 
300 slides and welcomes the opportunity 
to discuss these projects.
Pesce teaches design class

---------------------------------------------------

entertainment
Professor's play set for world
Forbert comes to Steel City
by Charly Rhoades
Many performers (rock or otherwise) 
seem to follow-up successful debut albums 
with less than spectacular LPs. This accusa
tion could be applied to Steve Forbert, but 
you might get an argument by some staunch 
supporters^of the 24 year-old folk-rocker.
While his latest effort, Jackrabbit Slim, 
wasnt received quite as well as his previous 
entry. Alive on Arrival, Forbert still has 
a dedicated following and will be appearing 
at the Duquesne University Ballroom on 
February 25,1980.
Forbert defines his music as being purely 
American; The second album is not so 
autobiographical as the first was, says 
Forbert o f Jackrabbit Slim. Where Alive on 
Arrival had the theme of a country kid in a 
big city,.this is more of a straight-forward 
collection of smhv? with no underlying
autobiographical story. Musically, we took 
basically the same approach as on the first 
album. 1 try to keep the instrumentation 
nice and simple.
The new LP tends to lapse into com
mercialism via lush background vocals, 
marshmallowy horns and other production 
effects that critics claim are smothering 
Forberts gritty, street-wise image. None
theless, Forberts live performance in front 
of demanding record and radio conventions 
are what pushed him into prominence in 
the first place, and his arrival in Pittsburgh 
is anxiously looked forward to. The per
formance is being cosponsored by the Pitt 
Union Board and Danny Kresge Enter
prises. Tickets are S6.50 for students and 
S7.50 for non-students, and are available 
at Duquesne University and National 
Rccord Marts. This might be the perfect 
way to put off classes for one more night.
premiere at Lion Walk
by Richard Gorelick
On Thursday, February 21 at 8:00 PM, 
The Pittsburgh Metropolitan Stage Com
pany will present the world .premiere of 
David Balls new play, The Columbia 
Encyclopedia Presents Mary Stuart, 
Queen of Scotland at The Lion Walk 
Performing Arts Center.
This show should be of unique in
terest to the Carnegie-Mellon University 
for seversal reasons, not the least of which 
is that its playwright, David Ball, is a pro
fessor of Drama at CMU.
David Ball came to Carnegie-Mellon 
from the renowned Guthrie Theatre in 
Minneapolis, where, as literary director, he 
was responsible for play selection and his
torical and literary research of dramatic 
works. A pioneer in this field, Ball has 
watched the evolution of the literary 
director into Americas regional theatres. 
During this period, he also saw some of 
his own works and adaptations produced 
by the Guthrie, as well as other regional 
theatres.
A desire to teach brought Ball to CMU, 
where he discovered that Pittsburgh was 
an ideal location for the ambitions of a 
small group of his comtemporaries; actors 
and directors, who wanted to affect the 
same kind of theatrical revoultion that has 
taken place in cities like Minneapolis and 
Seattle. What has evolved from those 
ambitions is The Pittsburgh Metropolitan 
Stage Company. The Metro is possibly 
the only actor-managed professional the
atre in the country.
For the most part, Ball finds Pitts
burgh audiences more open and adven
turous than New Yorks narrow-minded 
patrons and Carnegie-Mellons own au
diences, who are schooled in very tradi
tional methods. He feels that this adven
turous attitude of Pittsburgh audiences is 
perfectly suited to Mary Stuart.
While his play is by no means bizarre, 
it is also not traditional in the manner of 
Checkhov or Miller. Originally titled 
Who wants another play about 
Stuart?, Balls version of the frequently 
dramatized story of the conflict between 
Mary Stuart and her sister, Elizabeth the 
First, is a historical tour-de-force. It 
includes arias from Donizettis Opera, 
Maria Sturarda, scenes from the German 
tragedian Schillers Mary Stuart, and 
selections from the Queens own poems 
and correspondence, as well as original 
songs and poems. The result is a pot
pourri ranging from dizzy comedy to high 
tragedy.
An early version of Balls Mary Stuart 
was produced by the Carnegie-Mellon 
Theatre Company last September, and 
received enthusiastic response. Many people 
approached Ball after the play, saying, 
This is what theatre should do!
Mary Stuart will also be produced in 
Minneapolis, New York City and Edinborough, Scotland in the next year, but 
the Metros production is of special interest 
to Ball, because for him being there is 
an essential and rewarding part of the 
creative process. Outside of the obvious
Steve Forbert will rock the Duquesne University Ballroom Monday, February 25.
The star and author of Mary Stuart, Casey Childs and David Ball
monetary reward, these ouside productions 
are of little interest to him.sBall is no longer an active playwright: 
His present energies are committed to 
teaching and novels. He bemoans the 
frustration of trying to earn a living from 
playwriting, and points to the failure of 
almost all of the popular playwrights of 
the 60s and early 70s to remain in the 
publics tastes.
This production is also of unique in
terest to the CMU community because 
a CMU graduate student, Casey Childs, 
a resident member of The Metro, plays 
a leading role. Childs has played Scrooge 
in the Metros Christmas Carol for two
seasons, and has acted in major theatres 
across the country.
Susan Chapek repeats the role she 
originated in the CMTC production, and 
Metro regulars Shirley Tannenbaum and 
Ana Edler round out the cast. The pro
duction is directed by Metro co-founder, 
Jim Boerlin.
Further incentive for making the trip to 
Lion Walk, 420 N. Craig St. at Baum Blvd., 
is the students admission price of SI.75, 
and even this price is a suggested donation.
The Columbia Encylopedia Presents 
Mary Stuart, Queen of Scotland will run 
at the Lion Walk on Thursdays, Fridays, and 
Saturdays,February 21 through March 15.
ve-Ups rock up Lion Walk
by Paul Smith
Last Wednesday, Feb. 13, the Rave-Ups 
and Combo Tactic performed at the Lion 
Walk Performing Arts Center, at the corner 
of Craig St. and Baum Blvd. The Rave-Ups 
opened the show with a hot one hour and 
fifteen minute set. Audience response was 
good, and the band played off of the audi
ences energy well.
In terms of musical quality, the perfor
mance was mixed. The band recently took 
a month break from public appearance to 
work in their new drummer, Richard Sleven. This has resulted in a precision and 
crispness that their earlier performances 
lacked, but some of their original material 
suffers from repetition: the use of similar 
chord changes in different songs tends to 
blur them together a bit.
In spite of this problem, their origi
nal songs work well, surviving on the 
strength of the lyrics. Guitarists Jimmer 
Podrasky and Michael Keneicke, who 
write most of the bands material, have a 
unique flair for approaching the subject 
of frustration from every possible angle. 
Especially notable are Youns Suck, 
a rather hostile reminiscence of a sub
urban Pittsburgh upbringing, and I 
Hate the Phone, sort of an unrequited 
love song.
Youre nobody till somebody loves 
you; I love my fist... sings Keneicke in 
one of the heaviest rockers of the show. 
Theyre not just bitching about frustra
tion, they are talking about living with it, 
getting to know it, even getting friendly 
with it, maybe. The important thing is 
they have the wit to be able to stick to 
such subject matter without sounding 
like martyrs.
One of the things that sets the Rave-Ups 
apart from the other local New Wave 
bands is the inclusion of several soft, slow 
ballads in their sets. These contrast nicely
with the heavier stuff, and provide a wider 
creative area for them to work in. They 
also provide a good showcase for bassist 
George Carters violin work, which was 
more impressive on Wedenesday than it 
has been before. They also have quite an 
ability for getting more out of copied 
material than the original artist. Their 
version of Viet-Namese Baby by the 
New York Dolls is exemplary. Theyve 
set it to a slow striding beat and added a 
mournful violin, bringing out the sad irony 
in the lyrics which was lost in the Doll's 
hyper, power- chord laden version.
What it comes down to is that the 
Rave-Ups are one of the few New Wave 
groups around worth checking out. Another one of that few is Combo Tactic, 
in my opinion the hottest band in this 
town right now. They will be reviewed here 
next issue.
Spirit show: 
NOW!
On Friday Night, February 22nd, at 
7:30, Spirit will present its annual talent 
show in Skibo Ballroom. This years show 
will feature some of Carnegie-Mellons 
finest talent, including the outstanding 
dance group The Bang Gang. In addition, 
some fine entertainers from the Pittsburgh 
area will dazzle the audience with their 
fine performances.
The theme of this years show is NOW 
and is dedicated to the continuing excel
lence of Black Artists. If youve never 
attended a Spirit talent show before, you 
sho lid definitely check out NOW.
Tickets are $1.50 and are available 
at tne Skibo Information Desk.

---------------------------------------------------

Final Exam
03-121
03-130
03-231
03-350
03-441
06-101
06-202
06-309
06-704
06-715
39-206
09-104
09-105
09-106
09-117
09-142
09-218
09-244
09-248
09-502
09-741
12-103
12-208
12-211
12-325
12-604
12-621
12-636
12-637
15-104
15-111
15-118
15-211
15-360
18-100 
18-102 
18-114 
18-204 
18 222
18-233
18-310
18-341
19 502
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES
Modern BiologyFri May 91:00-4:00DH 1212
Biology of OrganismsFri May 91:00-3:00DH 1112
Biochemistry IThu May 88:30-11:30SCH 7500
Developmntl BiologyMon May 51:004:00SH 224
Molec Bio MicroorganTue May 68:30-11:30Ml 355
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
Intro to Chem EngrWed May 75:30-8:30DH 1112
Chemical Engr IIIMon May 58:30-11:30SH 7500
Phy Chem Surf ColldsWed May 71:00-4:00SCH 7500
Adv Heat Mass TrnsfrTue May 68:30-11:30DH 2105
Adv Proc SynthesisTue May 61:00-3:00DH 2105
Anal Synth Evalua II Tue May 68:30-11:30SCH 5403, 
5419,5427
CHEMISTRYf i
Ch Asp Org Bioch MtlWed May 78:30-11;30DH 2122
Dynamics & EquilibThu May 81:00-4:00SCH 5310
Bonding Struct PrincThu May 81:00-4:00DH 2210
Organic Chemistry IMon May 55:30-8:30DH 2210
Physcl Chemistry IMon May 58:30-11:30DH 1112
Organic Chemistry IIFri May 98:30-11:30DH 2210
Physcl Chemistry IIIWed May 71:00-4:00DH 1112
Inorganic ChemistryMon May 55:30-8:30DH 1212
Organic Polymer ChemTue May 61:004:00DH 2210
Organic Polymer Chem Tue May 6
/
1:00-4:00DH 2210
CIVIL ENGINEERING
Systems Engr IThu May 88:30-11:30HH 10, 11
DynamicsMon May 58:30-11:30BH 131
Solids Mechanics IThu May 81:00-4:00SH 125
Soil MechanicsTue May 68:30-11:30PH 207E
Systems Engr IIWed May 78:30-11:30PH 125B
Structural Mech IIFri May 98:30-11:30PH 123H
Envrnmntl Impact AnTue May 68:30-11:30PH 125B
Urbn Eng Issues ProbMon May 51:004:00PH 123H
COMPUTER SCIENCE
Intro to Cmptng A A Tue May 61:004:00SCH 5316
"B Tue May 61:00-4:00SCH 5328
C Tue May 61:004:00SCH 5336
Intro to Cmptng B E Tue May 61:00-4:00PH 125B
FG Tue May 61:00-4:00DH 1212
H Tue May 61:00-4:00PH 125C
1 Tue May 61:00-4:00PH 125D
KL Tue May 61:00-4:00BH 231
M Tue May 61:00-4:00PH 126 A
N Tue May 61:00-4:00PH 126B
O Tue May 61:00-4:00PH 126C
P Tue May 61:00-4:00PH 225B
Q Tue May 61:004:00SCH 5302
Cmptr Tools H&SS Tue May 61:00-4:00SCH 5304
Fund Struc Prog Mon May 58:30-11:30SH 125
Intro Cmpts Aid Des Fri May 98:30-11:30DH 1212
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
Fndmntls Elee Engr Thu May 88:30-11:30DH 2210
Electrnc Circuits 1 Wed May 78:30-11:30SH 125, HH 10,HH 11
Electrical Engr Ila Thu May 81:00-4:00HH 10, HH 11
Fids Waves Tm Lines Wed May 75:00-9:00SH 224
An Ds Anlg Dg Crc AB Fri May 98:30-11:30HH 10
CD Fri May 98:30-11:30HH 11
Intro to Dig Sys Thu May 8.1:004:00DH 2315, SCH 7500
Fund Communctn Sys Mon May 51:004:00HH 10
Elctrmch Fids Fr Mot Wed May 78:30-11:30PH 225C
ENGINEERING & PUBLIC POLICY
Chm Tech Envm & Soc Wed May 7 5:30-8:30 PH 226B
MATHEMATICS
21-111Calculus MH&SS)Tue May 68:30-11:30PH 225C, PH 226A
21-112Calculus II(H&SS)Thu May 88:30-11:30DH 2315
21 122Calculus IIWed May 78:30-11:30PH 100, DH 2210
DH 2315, SCH 7500
21-123Calculus IIIWed May 71:004:00DH 2210, DH 2315
21-127Intro to Appl MathMon May 55:30-8:30SCH 7500
21-141Cmptnl Lin AlgebraFri May 91:004:00DH 2315
21 292Operations ResearchMon May 55:30-8:30DH 2315
21-369Numerical Methods'Wed May 71:004:00DH 1212
21-371Func Cmplx VariableTue May 68:30-11:30SCH 5336
21-446Adv An De Mgt Sei IITue May 68:30-11:30SCH 541?
21-476Ord Diff EquationsThu May 85:30-8:30SCH 5427
21486Classical MechanicsThu May 81:004:00SCH 5328
21487Appl Optimal CntrlTue May 61:004:00SCH 5419
21489Tpcs Network TheoryWed May 71:004:00SH 125
egg salad!
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
24-112Fluid Mechanics 1Tue May 68:30-11:30HH 10, HH 11
24-121Thermodynamics 1Mon May 55:30-8:30SH 212
24-141Statistics and Dynamics Mon May 58:30-11:30PH 100
24-203Stress AnalysisA Fri May 98:30-11:30SH 206
B Fri May 98:30-11:30SH 212
C Fri May 98:30-11:30SH 220
24-223Thermodynamics IIA Mon May 5 5:30-8:30SH 220
B Mon May 55:30-8:30SH 224
24-258Numerical MethodsWed May 78:30-11:30VSH 224
METALLURGY AND MATERIALS SCIENCE
27-131Materials ScienceA Fri May 91:004:00DH 2210
B Fri May 91:004:00DH 2210
C Fri May 91:004:00PH 100
27-217Transport & KineticsTue May 68:30-11:30SCH 5310
27-322Process MetallurgyMon May 58:30-11:30SCH 5302
27-332Physical Metallurgy IIFri May 98:30-11:30DHA317
27-442Mech Behav Matls IIWed May 78:30-11:30SCH 5419
27-511Diffraction Meth MMS Tue May 61:004:00 .SCH 5320
27-530Alloy SteelsTue May 68:30-11:30SCH 5320
27-551Ceramics and GlassTue May 61:004:00DH A219
27-566Special TopicsThu May 81:004:00DH A317
PHYSICS%
33-113Phys Musical SoundFri May 91:004:00SCH 5419
33-121Physics 1 MechanicsThu May 85:30-8:30DH 2210
33-122Physics II HtWvOptTue May 68:30-11:30PH 100, DH 1112,
*DH 1212, DH 2210,
DH 2315, SCH 7500
33-123Physics III Elec MagWed May 75:30-8:30SH 125
33-124Physics IVMon May 51:004:00SCH 5336
33-131Physcl Mechanics IIFri May 98:30-11:30SCH 5427
33-134Modern Physics 1Wed May 78:30-11:30SCH 5403
33438Intrmd Elec & Mag IIMon May 58:30-11:30SCH 7316
33-442Intro Stat PhysicsWed May 78:30-11:30SCH 5316
33-446Wave MechanicsTue May 68:30-11:30SCH 5302
33-448Intro Solid St PhysWed May 75:30-8:30SCH 5403
33454Physics of ContinuaMon May 51:004:00SCH 7316
33457Adv Computnl PhysTue May 61:004:00SCH 8427
STATISTICS
36-211Probity Appi Stat IWed May 71:004:00PH 100
36-212Probity Appi Stat 11Wed May 7'8:30-11:30DH 1112, DH 1212,
MM 14
36-216Probability Stat IIFri May 91:004:00SCH 7500
36-219Stat Mth Data An 1Thu May 81:004:00SCH 5419, SCH 5427
36-220Stat Mth Data An IIWed May 78:30-11:30BH 231, BH 232F
36-222Qu Cntrl Ind Stat IIFri May 98:30-11:30SCH 5419
36-375Elem Appl ProbityWed May 75:30-8:30SCH 5302
BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING
42-500 .PhysiologyWed May 75:30-8:30SCH 5304
Final Examination Schedule, Spring 1979-1980
Happy days

---------------------------------------------------

Schedule
ARCHITECTURE
48-212Tech I Bldg Sci FundTue May 68:30-11:30MM14
48-312Tech II Rnfrcd ConeTue May 61:00-4:00MM 14
MUSIC
57-125Harmony ITue May 61:00-3:00MM10357-154Harmony IITue May 68:30-10:30FA16057-205History of Music IVWed May 79:30-11:30MM10357-256Counterpoint IWed May 75:30-8:30FA16057-332Intro to ConductingMon May 51:00-3:00MM11957-749Contra-Harm Tch 18th Tue May 68:30-11:30FA 157
ECONOMICS
73-100 Econ Anal Cntmp Prob MonMay 5 1:00-4:00 BH 231, SCH 5310,
Sch 5320, SCH 5403, 
SCH 5419, SCH 5427 
73-200 Eco Grwth Fluctns A Tue May 6 1:00-4:00 DH1112
BCTue May 6 1:00-4:00 SCH 7500
73-250 Rsrce All Mkt Eco AC Wed May 7 5:30-8:30 PH 100
B Wed May 7 5:30-7:30 DH 2315
D Wed May 7 5:303:30 PH 125C
73-365 Industri Organizatn Thu May 8 9:39-11:30 BH 131
H&SS INTERDISCIPLINARY PROGRAM
66-315 Holocaust Int.Rel Un Thu May 8 7:1)0-9:00 BH 245
ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT SCIENCE
70-161Intro Gra Cmnctns IIWed May 75:30-8:30SH324
70-311Orgnztnl Behavior I A Mon May 51:004:00PH126C
B Mon May 51:004:00PH225B
70361Foundations of LawThu May 81:004:00PH100
70-391Finance ITue May 68:30-11:30PH231
* f- i7* " *  'Tue May 68:30-11:30BH232F
70-442Cost AccountingMon May 58:30-11:30BH231
70-491Finance IIMon May 51:004:00PH225C
ENGLISH
76-101Fact and FictionA Wed May 75:30-8:30BH 232F
B Wed May 75:30-8:30PH 126A
C Wed May 75:30-8:30BH 235A
D Wed May 75:30-8:30BH 235B
E Wed May 75:30-8:30BH 255B
F Wed May 75:30-8:30PH 126B
G Wed May 75:30-8:30PH 125D
76-201Bblcl Myth Bkgrd LitThu May 85:30-8:30BH 235A
76-219Sickness/Health LitWed May 79:30-11:30BH 235A
76-230Seventeenth CenturyThu May 88:30-11:30BH 255B
76-290Modern WritersFri May 98:30-11:30PH 125D
76-317Studies in PoetryTue May 68:30-11:30PH 226B
76-321ShakespeareA Mon May 55:30-8:30BH 245
B Mon May 55:30-8:30BH 255A
C Mon May 55:30-8:30BH 235A
76-370 -Emerson & MelvilleTue May 68:30-11:30BH 255B
76-388Cntmp Rhetrcl TheoryFri May 98:30-11:30BH 255B
76-401Victorian NovelMon May 59:30-11:30PH 226B
76406Modern NovelTue May 61:00-4:00BH 245
76-550Exposition IA Thu May 88:30-11:30PH 226C
C Thu May 88:30-9:30PH 126C
D Thu May 88:30-11:30BH 255A
E Thu May 88:30-11:30SCH 5310
76-560Exposition IIWed May 71:00-4:00PH 226B
76-576Journalism InternshipTue May 61:00-4:00BH 235A
FINAL GRADES DUE FOR DEGREE CANDIDATES NO LATER THAN 
12:00 NOON, FRIDAY, MAY 9, IN THE MAIL SLOT OF THE REGISTRAR'S 
OFFICE, WARNER HALL 201. FINAL GRADES FOR ALL OTHERS DUE NO 
LATER THAN 9:00 AM, TUESDAY, MXY 13.
Examinations in graduate courses not listed are to be scheduled in the week prior to 
the regular examination period.
are here
HISTORY AND PHILOSOPHY
79-102Shaping Wstrn Civ IIA Fri May 99:30-11:30BH232F
B Fri May 99:30-11:30BH 129 A
79-110Origins of Mdrn WrldMon May 58:30 10:30DH 2210, 
DH 2315
79-210Pwr & Val Amer CivilMon May 510:30-12:30DH 2315
79-283Mdrn Amer 1876-1918Fri. May 99:30-11:30PH 226A
79-290Rec Amer Foreign PolWed May 71:00-3:00PH 226A
79-301Great Ideas in WestT ue May 61:00-3:00BH 255A
79-371Modern ChinaT ue May 61:00-3:00BH 129 A
79414PEH Dctrshp/AppeasMon May 59:30 11:30PH 226A
79429Soviet Union TodayFri May 91:00-3:00PH 226A
79465Frms Med Lf Mn Gd DvMon May59:30-11:30BH 245
79476Bureaucracy & RvoluT ue May 61:00-3:00BH 229B
79483Family and SocietyThu May 8 -9:30-11:30PH 226A
79491Europe 20th CenturyWed May 79:30-11:30BH 129A
79-503War and TechnologyTue May 61:00-3:00PH 226A
79-509R&D Hst Frm Rsch DevThu May 89:30 11:30PH 226B
79-516Technlgy & Soc ChngThu May 85:30-7:30PH 226B
79-523Victor Soc Lit & HisMon May 59:30-11:30PH 226B
Philosophy Courses
80-100Prblms Mthds PhilosA Mon May 51:00-3:00PH 226B
B Mon May 51:00-3:00BH 231
C Mon May 51:00-3:00BH 245
80-155Theories of PaintingTue May 69:30-11:30HL,
Multi-Purf
80-205Philos & LiteratureWed May 75:30-7:30PH 125B
80-215Philos of TechnologyThu May 85:30-7:30PH 126A
80415Philos of ReligionWed May 79:30-11:30PH 226C
MODERN LANGUAGE PROGRAM
82-102Elementary FrenchThu May 85:30-7:30BH235B
82-107Programmed FrenchThu May 85:30-7:30BH129K
82-112Int Fr Culture SocTue May 61:00-3:00BH 129K
82-114Int Fr LiteratureTue May 61:00-3:00BH235B
82-122Elementary GermanThu May 89:30-11:30SH 125
82-132Int Ger Cult & SocThu May 89:30-11:30PH 225C
82-142Elementary SpanishThu May 85:30-7:30BH 229B
82-143Programmed SpanishMon May 51:00-3:00DH 1212
82-152Int Spa Cult & SocWed May 79:30-11:30BH 229B
82-162RussianThu May 8-1:00-3:00PH 126A
82-164Intermed RussianTue May 61:00-3:00DH 1209
82-171Elementary ItalianWed May 79:30-11:30PH 126A
82-172 -Elementary Italian (2nd)Wed May 75:30-7:30PH 225B
82-174Intermed ItalianWed May 75:30-7:30PH 225B
82-202French Conver & CompTue May 6.9:30-11:30BH235B
82-272Cntmp French TheatreTue May 61:00-3:00BH 131
82-350German Classical LitTue May 69:30-11:30PH 226C
82402Spanish Conver CompTue May 61:00-3:00PH 226B
82491Spec Topics SpanishWed May 75:30-7:30Ph 126C
82-681Mstrpcs Cntnntl LitTue May 61:00-3:00PH 226C
PSYCHOLOGY ANDEDUCATION
85-11Prblm Solving TchnqsWed May 75:30-7:30BH 231
85 211Cognitive PsychologyA Thu May 85:30-8:30BH 255B
B Thu May 85:30-8:30HH 10.
HH 11
C Thu May 85:30-8:30BH 34QA
85-241Social PsychologyWed May 71:004:00BH 231
85-310Rsch Mthds Cog PsychT ue May 69:00-11:30PH 126B
85-340Rsch Mthds Soc PsychT ue May 61:00-3:00MM15
85*553Seminar Intervention ^Tue May 61:004:00BH232F
SOCIAL SCIENCE
88-101Social InfluenceFri May 98:30 11:30PH 100.
DH 1112, DH 2315.
SCH 7500
88-200Intro Models Soc SciThu May 38:30-11:30PH 100
88-201OrganizationsThu May 85:30-7:30PH 126B
88-204Mktng Non-Prof OrgnzWed May 75:30-7:30PH 226A
88-228Into Theo Soc AnthrTue May 61:00 3:00BH255B
88-244Legislative ProcessT ue May 68:30-11:30PH 126A
88-255Electoral ProcessesWed May 78:30-11:30PH 125D
88-330Technlgy & Soc ChngFri May 98:30 11:30PH 226B
  

---------------------------------------------------

LINKABIT CORPORATION, 
SAN DIEGO 
HAS A CAREER FOR YOU IN
SPACE & SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS
LINKABIT offers you an opportunity to challenge and expand your abilities; to take advantage 
of exceptional career growth and personal reward opportunities; and to work in an environ
ment where innovation and individual performance are directed, encouraged and recognized 
by outstanding professionals.
Located near the University of California, San Diego, our facility offers ready access to San 
Diegos beaches, recreational and cultural offerings.
LINKABIT continues to build its reputation as a pacesetter in communication system research, 
development, design and implementation. Our rapid growth has created openings for indivi
duals with interests and backgrounds in:
 COMMUNICATION SYSTEM DESIGN MICROPROCESSOR BASED COMMUNICATION COMPONENTS DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION THEORY RF DESIGN LOGIC DESIGN REAL-TIME SOFTWARE DESIGN MICROPROCESSOR ARCHITECTURE TECHNICAL MANAGEMENT POWER SUPPLY DESIGN PACKET SWITCHING
 COMMUNICATION NETWORKS
LINKABIT Corporation is engaged in the development, design and manufacture of communi
cations systems and components primarily for satellite and space application.
LINKABIT was founded 11 years ago by a group of communication engineers. Since then, we have 
grown to a company of over 430 employees.
IF YOUR CAREER OBJECTIVES MATCH OUR OPENINGS, DISCUSS YOUR PROFESSIONAL FUTURE 
WITH US AT OUR ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20
Should you be unable to meet with us, please send your resume to 
Michael Lubin, Director of Administration
LINKABIT CORPORATION
10453 Roselle Street,San Diego, Ca. 92121
An Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer
* Others with relevant backgrounds welcome, too!

---------------------------------------------------

February 19,1980TARTANPage 17
Introductory and advanced courses, workshops, and seminars in the arts, earth sciences, education, engineering, the humanities, social sciences, sciences and mathematics. Summer session runs June 23 to August 16 All students in good standing are invited to attend.For a course bulletin and application form, mail the coupon below to Stanford Summer Session, Building 1, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94 305
Cunningham and Ahlstrom color Forbes St. Gallery
TARTAN Staffers Put Out! 
(and LOVE it!)
Please send me the Stanford 1980 Summer Session Bulletin83
NAME ----------------------------------
ADDRESS ________________________
CITY .....................................................
STATE -----------------------------------------
ZIP------------------------------------------
SCHOLAE 
LUDIQUE 
AESTIVI
SUiiiJonimi'rMCMLXXX
Great Moments in the history of hair
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech, a 
Stone Age plumber, discovers a 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
drain on a routine aqueduct re
pair job. He calls the substance 
hair
But we always thought this 
stuff was feathers", insists Kneg, 
his helper.
"Dummy'*, counters Blech "If 
this was feathers, we'd be able to
fly like those pteradactyls".
With the discovery of hair, pluck
ing salons disappear. Philoso
phers have something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with. No 
appointments required. For gals 
and guys.
CXPCCHYIOnS
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
HAIRCUTS COLORING PERMANENTS
(Wash-Cut-Blow)
1
m nn 237 Atwood StrMt ^ H
1 Across th* strMt from 2 5
Oakland Post Offico 
Mon. Tues. Wed. - 10-7 67-3500
Thors. Frl. 10-9 NO
Sat. 9-4 UNISEX HAIR SALON APPOINTMENTS
by Alex Czajkowski
Producing a reaction, inspiring imagi
nation, and declaring a statement are few 
of the aspects Art can have. Some of those 
aspects are easy for an artist to attain, 
such as producing any reaction or declaring 
some statement; however, true manipula
tion of these aspects requires a very 
talented artist, one that can produce a 
specific reaction or declare a certain state
ment. Last week at the Forbes Street 
Gallery was a show of such talent, whether 
the artists Eva Cunningham and Karin 
Ahlstrom realize it or not.
Both artists, like many others, love 
color. This love and their talent in execu
tion is about all their works have in 
common: Its enough. Ahlstroms work is
Record Revue
by Scott Schaffer
At first glance Hiroshima, the Arista 
debut album by the group of the same 
name, looks like some sort of political 
event. As their name and picture subtly 
suggest, this group is of Japanese Ancestry. 
Luckily, their heritage is not their only 
distinctive characteristic.
Hiroshima is not an international mile
stone; it is a fine collection of music. 
The music itself is unmistakably Amer
ican. The recording can be found in the 
jazz annals, but as the sleeve states, it 
doesnt matter what type of music you 
like best. . . Hiroshima is an unusual, 
mellow mixture that should appeal to 
many and offend few.
The band consists of nine members, 
including a male and a female vocalist. 
This rather large cast is directed by wood
wind specialist Dan Kuramoto, who wrote 
or co-wrote seven of the eight pieces. Teri 
Kusamoto and Jess Acuna handle the lead 
vocals (and yes, the lyrics are in English), 
but the disks strongest moments are the 
instrumental passages. The most exciting
rigidly structured and disciplined, 
Cunninghams is generally more abstract in 
total design. Ahlstrom m kes serigraphed 
stripes, varying in color, width and direction. 
With this basis, she creates pieces that show 
movement within their frame, movement 
extending across the wall, and movement 
into the room. For instance, her Seri
graphed Collage looks like two triangles 
zipping across the wall. Others, such as 
White-Grid, Z-Shot, and Tri-Panel 
have patterns that are easily imagined to 
continue ouside the frame.
Ahlstroms weavings do similarly; the 
patterns in Untitled acrylic and wool, 
in  Celebration of Color and in her other 
Untitled weaving can be imagined to go 
above and beyond the limits of the wool.
member of the group is koto-player June 
Okida Kuramoto. She fuses this traditional 
Japanese instrument into a non-traditonal form, as if it had been employed that 
way for centuries. Whether providing 
color, as in Lion Dance and Roomful 
of Mirrors, or playing extended leads, 
as in Kokoro and Da-Da, she adds 
much to the bands unique sound.
The record also has some flaws. The 
lyrics are generally hollow, and become 
monotonous after awhile. In addition, 
string arrangements are overused. More 
time should have been devoted to other 
band members such as keyboardist Rich
ard Mathews, who shines'only once (on 
Taiko Song). The weakest track is 
Never Ever, which sounds like ten 
Pablo Cruise songs.
Despite these drawbacks, Hiroshima is 
a tasteful and refreshing LP. Most modern 
music fans should appreciate this combo, 
which unfortunately will probably only 
be remembered as that Japanese group 
Whatever their nationality, Hiroshima 
sounds good.
The bright acrylic colors make these weav
ings definite wall-hangings. Cunninghams 
weavings are another story.
Using the Ikat method of weaving, tiedying the wool first and then weaving, 
Cunningham has created three master
pieces, two of which she unfortunately 
misapplied. The first is a gray fringed 
wool shawl that had gotten a little long for 
her use. It had colorful patterns at either 
end and is definately ready to give warmth 
and comfort. Next was a brown and orange 
weaving that she misnamed Ikat rug. 
Why misnamed? Only a fool would walk 
on something so obviously designed to be 
wrapped around some chilly couple sitting 
by a fire deep in the woods. Then, hanging 
on a pillar in the Gallery was another Ikat 
weaving made of shades of blue and white. 
Again, despite the cool colors used, this 
was an extremely warm, comfortable 
blanket.
Done with the same talent and skill were 
Cunninghams woodcuts. Two exceptional 
pieces were her representational flowers; 
In Spanish Harlem and Irises. The 
layers of ink add dimension to the work 
not usually inherent in prints, and, of 
course the colors were perfect. A memor
able print,Pittsburgh: Phase One, is an 
abstract wood-cut of a winters sunset over 
the Pittsburgh skyline.
She also had two landscape wood-cuts, 
Spur Tree Hill and Pedro. As an experi
ment, she printed all three of the lastly 
mentioned woodcuts superimposed over 
one another using different color inks. The 
results of the different colors and a rota
tion of one or two of the blocks yielded 
Up to the Mountain and Winters 
Melting Ice.
Cunninghams oil landscapes are 
abstracta. Here, and on her other abstract 
canvases is where her talents really come to 
light. The landscapes in oils are sublimminally very sexy, with Hill in St. 
Elizabeth  symbolic of a reclining couple, 
and Phthalolandscape very reminscient 
of lips. The flow and contours of the land 
in these paintings is very sensual, although 
Cunningham may not have had this in 
mind when she made them.
Her other abstracts also seem to come 
from the same source; her subconscious. 
Subliminated in these incredible, imagina
tive, exciting and damn-nearly scarry 
canvasses are visions of fetal death, schizo
phrenia and worlds that are lost and con
fused. That her Black Embryo and 
Flor DLuna arent snatched up by the 
Pro-Life people to use as a symbol 
against abortion is amazing. The pain, 
waste and drain of energy in these are very 
moving, and would therefore be very effect
ive without being cliche-ish.
Both artists like to try different mediums 
and ideas. Karin Ahlstrom relieves some of 
her energy in bookbinding, using wellchosen covers and papers to form immacu
late books. She has also done a great little 
intaglio, called Like Margies that diverts 
from her standard patterned and structured 
pieces.
Eva Cunningham, in an effort to break 
out of traditional mediums and styles, 
created a fiber piece called Crioulo Birth 
Right. This was made of flexible tubing 
wrapped in color thread on a stretched 
material canvas. It was, as all her work is, 
very original.
Ahlstroms work is that of reason, disci
pline and structure. The effects are move
ment and color, just as intended. 
Cunninghams work goes beyond her inten
tions; her fantastic canvases tell stories 
only her subconscious knows. The entire 
show was well prepared, all the pieces 
being froamed and glassed or stretched, 
which is just as much a part of the work as 
the paint.
Hiroshima invades Pittsburgh

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-TARTAN-February 19,1980
Herzog to speak at Institute
A scene from Herzog's Heart of Glass
(Carnegie Institute) internationally 
acclaimed film director Werner Herzog, 
who is the subject of a continuing film 
series at Carnegie Institute, will make a rare 
public appearance tonight, February 19, 
7:30 p.m. in the Lecture Hall of Carnegie 
Institute. He will discuss his work after a 
screening of Heart of Glass.
Herzog is widely regarded as one of 
contemporary cinemas most gifted, and 
original, filmmakers. The nineteen films 
he has made largely over the past decade 
have received critical praise, won innumer
able prizes and played to ever widening 
audiences all over the world. 
Herzog is a leading figure of "The New 
German Gnema," a name given to the gen
eration of young directors, centered pri
marily in Munich, who have emerged dur
ing the 1970s with a body of work com
parable to that of the Italian Neo-Realists 
or the French New Wave. Even within that 
grouping he is unique in the extraordinary 
control he has achieved over his work. He 
founded his own production company and 
acts as his own publishing house. He de
mands and gets total creative and produc
tion autonomy on all his projects.
Time Magazine described Herzog as a 
director who will make German films 
wherever he is and he has said I will
never leave my culture. It is nonetheless 
true that at least half his films have been 
set in other countries, often on remote and 
treacherous landscapes. There is no other 
way for him to express himself. His work 
is imagistic, and one image is always the 
key to the totality. I see something on 
the horizon that most people have not 
seen, he told Time. I seek planets that 
do not exist and landscapes that have only 
been dreamed.
The pursuit of these visions has taken 
Herzog to a volcano on Guadaloupe (La 
Soufriere); the Camaroons (Fata Mor
gana); the Peruvian jungle (Aguirre, the 
Wrath of God); the islands of Crete and 
Kos for Signs of Life and Even Dwarfs 
started Small. By comparison, Nosferatu: The Undead was made in simple 
settings-the city of Delft, Holland and var
ious parts of Czechoslovakia, He has plans, 
however, for projects in Brazil and Austra
lia. A restless soul, when not actively en
gaged in filming he travels constantly, al
ways searching for new images.
Herzog continues to write the poetry 
which won him so many prizes as a youth; 
a volume will soon be published along with 
a memoir, Walking Into Ice, about his 
three-week walk from Munich to Paris 
three years ago.
B. B. King brings his beautiful blues to The Stanley
by Ted Smits
It was like a practice they used to have 
in the South, if a family had a child bom 
with something wrong with it. They would 
build a little shack out back behind the 
house and that person would live out his 
whole life there, being fed and taken care 
of, but never being seen by anybody else. 
It wasnt that they didnt love him, but 
that they were afraid other people might
not understand or make fun of him. Thats 
the way it was with the blues.
Coming from the man who almost 
singlehandely brought the blues from out 
of the backyard shack and into Americas 
living room, those are surprisingly bitter 
words. Yet once again after 30 years of 
virtually non-stop performances the 
Dynamic Gentleman of the Blues is 
inflicted with a solid dose of the blues.
iiHinianiiiiiiiiuiiiiHHHiifiiinimiiunniflmmmiiiiiiiHiiiK
ATTENTION 
ALL CONTACT 
LENS WEARERS
- Y* * * - - - , V X I r j ' \
15% Discount 
On All Contact Lens 
SOLUTIONS and SUPPLIES 
with student I.D.
Good until March 1
3529 FORBES SPECTACLES, I
AVENUE 
OAKLAND, PA 15213
621-4949OCM
iiiniiiiiiiiiiMiimmiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiimmiiiiiir?
Fortunately, B.B. Kings show, with singer 
.Bobby Blue Bland, on Saturday 
February 8 at the Stanley theater, showed 
that his own personal blues added more 
than they detracted from his entertaining 
act.
The Bobby Blue Bland Orchestra 
opened the evening with a fiery jazz-blues 
piece that set the up-tempo pace of the 
show. Bobby took the stage and tried to 
mellow out the incredibly hyped-up 
audience with some slow blues. Then he 
and his band turned on the juice with some 
rootsy, raunchy, blues-wailing that had the 
audience hallelujah-ing like they were at 
a revival meeting, especially during the 
rousing I Intend To Take Your Place. 
Bland rounded-out his set with his classic 
version of Stormy Monday.
The B.B. King Orchestra tried to keep up 
with the quick pace set by Bland in their 
opening number, but they lacked the 
tightness initiated by their predecessor. 
Then B.B. King came onstage and B.B. 
was jamming. It was easy to tell from his 
opening riffs of Let the Good Times
Roll that, as opposed to last years show, 
which consisted of almost all patter and 
singing, he was going to play a lot of 
guitar. His runs were as fluid and fresh as 
when they were first heard in the Fifties. 
His classic lyrics during Nobody Loves 
Me But My Mother made it strikingly 
apparent why everyone of todays rock 
and blues guitarists owe almost all of 
their techniques to B.B. King.
Near the end of the set, Bobby Bland 
.came onstage to join King in his classic 
trademark song,The Thrill Is Gone. 
The response was thunderous applause. 
Then B.B. wrapped up the show with the 
title track from his new album,Take It 
Home, a fitting climax to a very enjoy
able evening of the blues.
Even now, at the height of his popular* 
,ity, B.B. King still had a driving desire to 
win acceptance of the blues all over the 
world. It appears that the 59 year old 
entertainer will continue playing some 
350 dates a year until he accomplishes 
what he set out to do over 30 years ago.
Peace Corps 
VISTA
Resident Recruiter now located at the 
PITT YMCA 
Student Union 
Room 508
Call: KEVIN McCANN 644-5689
If no answer, please leave message at 
624-5912

---------------------------------------------------

February 19,1980TARTANPage 19
====================================== 
University Food Service Jobs Available
v______________________ _________~ ______________________________________________________________I7 i : .............:
USERAIS
ARE GOING TO WASHINGTON 
^Hts SUMMER^H
Randell Haynes (above) as Hamm and Ric Grusczynski as Clov
Journalists, analysts, econo
mists, pollsters, candidates, 
hypesters and special interest 
groups will also converge on 
Washington in the election 
summer of 1980.
But perhaps the greatest 
opportunities are reserved for 
the serious students who can 
study the political process upclose at The Amencan Univer
sity, in: government, political 
science, business & government 
relations, communications, jour
nalism and public relations.
A few hands-on internships 
and work study programs are 
still available. Summer study also 
offers idal opportunities to earn 
credits for electives and to further your degree program in Will you be there? 
the nation s capital j\% offjce 0f Summer Sessions
, , I6**011 summer } l The American Universityof 1980, the Washington expen-} ^ Washington. D.C. 20016
ence at A.U. will provide ' \ 202-686-2697
the inquiring student with a lots t j 
more than 'academics!' J ^ The .
lalk with your academic/ \ American
counselor and call or X ^ lnivsilV
wnte now for infor- / vtk-----------------mation about the / ? Please send course \ The Amencan University
Summer of '80 / schedule Dpl3e!Kl \ oppo^St^in D C There Will ysPea^cm^0nnatl0nat)0Ut:---------^ bve action university
never be another/^-------------------------------------\
opportunity like I ^iAme-------------------------------'
this until 1984. j-------1------------------------------------1
/ Address______________________________
! --------------------------------*----------------'\V Phone______________________________________ I
i------------------------------------------------------c (________________i_________________________________________i___________
heatre Revue
xpress'Endgame excels
by Kate Bertrand
In Samuel Becketts Endgame, the 
character Clov complains that the words 
he uses have nothing to say. Happily this 
isnt true of the play itself; Endgame is 
tightly written, complex and engrossing. In 
Theatre Express new production of 
Endgame, the company renders Becketts 
work with sensitivity and attention to its 
subtleties.
Endgame is about a dying world. The 
four characters in the play interact various
ly with humor, malice and despair. We 
watch Clov, a Quasimodo figure, tidy up 
the set and cater to the other characters: 
Hamm (Clovs father), and Nagg and Nell 
(Hamms parents). Hamm is blind and con
fined to a center-stage wheelchair, while 
Nagg and Nell are old, legless, and confined 
to ashbins. Endgame traces the happenings 
of one day in this household and explores 
the feelings of these mentally and physic
ally crippled characters.
Both Randell Haynes, in the role of 
Hamm, and Ric Grusczynski, as Clov, 
perform with extraordinary vigor in this 
production. Haynes is alternately energetic 
and subdued and delivers each of his lines 
with intensity. When called on to quote 
Shakespeare, Haynes alliterates and pro
jects with power. In one scene Hamm re
counts to his father a story of his (Hamms) 
generosity to a beggar. Haynesenthusiasm 
and dramatic flair make this scene sing 
with emotional energy, despite the non
sensical story he is relating.
Grusczynski is a bit harder to warm up 
to because the theatre-goer hesitates to
sympathize with a character reminiscent of 
the Three Stooges Mo. But as the play 
progresses, Grusczynski snines. His utter 
exasperation with ilamm in a scene invol
ving Clov, Hamm, and a stuffed dog has an 
intricate combination of humor and pain: 
Hamm demands that Clov stand the dog in 
front of his wheelchair, but Clov cant 
comply because the dog is missing a leg. 
Clov holds the dog up for bit, but event
ually loses patience and lets it fall at 
Hamms feet. Clovs efforts to comfort 
Hamm win all to Clovs side while making 
the audience aware of the characters 
emotional limitations. Grusczynskis fine 
portrayal of Clov certainly contributes to 
the strength of this scene and the play 
overall.
Tom Spinella and Anne B. Wyma are 
more than adequate in the roles of Nagg 
and Nell. They perform especially well to
gether, interacting with each other from 
their respective trashcans. Haynes and Gru
sczynski also interact convincingly; at one 
point Clov discovers that (horrors!) he has 
a flea, and when he exclaims of it to Hamm, 
the latter replies with conviction, A flea! 
What a day!. This reply, delivered with 
Haynes gusto, becomes hysterically funny.
All of the players in Theatre Express 
new production of Endgame, deserve praise. 
They each contribute to the unity of the 
production, and their performances do 
ample justice to Becketts fine work. 
Endgame will play at Theatre Express, 
4615 Baum Blvd., through March 2. For 
ticket information, call 621-5454.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20- TARTAN-February 19,1980
It might surprise you, but Hughes doesnt 
make aircraft. What we do has been expressed 
nicely by our Chairman of the Board, Dr. Allen 
E. Puckett: Were involved in a wide range of 
communications technologies, making sen
sors that operate on all parts of the electronic 
spectrum, <*nd computers and signal pro
cessors that issue commands or store and 
present dau. In the midst of the dramatic elec
tronic information explosion, Hughes is putting 
data sensing, communications and data pro
cessing advances to work for people like you 
and me. I * WM J
If youre an EE, ME, AE, IE, Physics, Material 
Science or Computer Science major, you could 
become part of this exciting and challenging 
commitment. You could become involved in 
aerospace, ground systems, industrial elec
tronics, space and communications and re
search. Our $4 billion backlog and 1,500 diverse 
programs assure job stability. Afd dont worry 
about getting lost - at Hughes, we work in small 
groups where individual initiative is valued highly.
Hughes - for all the right reasons. For details 
on our opportunities, contact your placement 
office, or write: Manager, College Relations, 
Hughes Aircraft Company, Ip 
P.O. Box 90515, Bldg. 100/443; v 
Los Angeles, CA 90009.
,------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------T 
; HUGHES |
I Im P'Cheating a new world with electronicafe
An equal opportunity employer, t0f/HCW 
U.S. Citizenship required
Your Hughes repres 
on campus
e will be
Berlioz'Reqa/em mastered by Pittsburgh Symphony
by Timothy LeVan
Nothing is quite so impressive as a 
classical music concert which combines 
an orchestra, chorus and soloist. Berlioz 
composed a work for these forces in his 
Requiem, Op. 5 (Grande Messe des Morts).
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, 
the Pennsylvania State University Choir, 
Robert Tear, tenor, and Andre Previn, 
conductor, performed this massive work 
earlier this month in the fifteenth series 
of concerts by the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra.
The Requiem opened with a soft intro
duction which led to the choral theme, 
Requiem Aeternam. A mood of hopeless 
mourning iiaunteu this ent1' * uiovement.
The bombastic Dies uae/Tuba Mirum
followed and announced the terrible Day 
of Wrath. All choral and orchestral forces, 
including the four brass choirs situated 
about the auditorium, were used to create 
a huge combined sound which ended the 
movement in a mood of desparation.
The Sanctus, the only movement with 
the tenor soloist, exposed a rich, melodic 
tenor solo in a tender.mood. Robert 
Tear, tenor, performed this movement with 
the utmost interpretational feeling and 
musicality. Overlooking a few vocal 
flaws, Mr. Tear made this movement one 
of the most pleasing of the evening. The 
Hosanna in Excelsis was sung by the 
womens chorus who then relinquished 
the movement to Mr. Tear. Tear then
repeated his Sahctus solo, which brought 
the movement to an end.
The final movement, Agnus Dei, opened 
with a four-part male choir who sang a 
prayer of eternal rest. This final movement 
quotes the initial part of the Requiem and 
this forms an arch from the beginning of 
the work to the end. This procedure is 
reminiscent of the Mozart Requiem of 
similar overall form.
The somewhat flashy Romantic orch
estra sound was handled quite competently 
by the orchestra and was a vehicle for 
the orchestra to show their versatility in 
playing passages ranging from heavy tutti 
sections to simple trios and quartets' of 
instruments.
The choir provided a forceful interpre
tation of the score, revealing a well-balanc
ed choral sound. They were well prepared 
by Raymond Brown, their choral director, 
as observed by their pure diction, vocal 
security and blended sound.
Mr. Previn brought the gigantic 
numbers of performers jnto a precisely 
fused sound. The task of accurately 
coordinating these large forces is a sub
stantial one for any conductor, and .Mr. 
Previn handled this job with excellent 
results.
The Requiem of Berlioz is a rarely 
performed work due to the large forces 
required, but when done with the com
petence of a Pittsburgh Symphony, it 
proves to be an enjoyable musical 
evening.
F.A. or Non  Apply Room 62, Skibo

---------------------------------------------------

Tartans fall to 7-5: drop out of PAC race
by Denny Postufka
The CMU basketball teams playoff 
hopes went down the drain last week, 
coming up a winner Wednesday at Thiel 
but losing at Allegheny on Saturday. The 
Tartans record now stands at 7 - 5 in the 
pAC-8, three games off the pace of co-lead
ers Bethany and Allegheny who are now 
both 10-2. CMUs posts an 11-9 overall 
record.
The Tartans pulled out a spectacular 
comeback victory over Thiel on Wednesday. 
The Tartans, who trailed the winless Tom
cats by eleven at halftime, shot an amazing 
65% from the field in the second half to 
bring home a victory by a score of 59-54.
CMU couldnt put it together in the first 
half, comitting one turnover after another 
and forcing bad shots. The Tomcats played 
an excellent defensive game, holding CMU 
to 23 first half points and keeping leading 
scorer Larry Hufnagel intact with 10 points.
Joe Belechak lead the way for the Tar
tans with 14. points and 8 rebounds, fol
lowed by Dave Hofmeister with 13.
It was a bad night for CMU on Saturday 
as they traveled to Allegheny for a tough 
one with the conference leading Gators. 
The Tartans were defeated by a score of 
79-51. The lone bright spot in the loss was 
Larry Hufnagels 21 points.
The Tartans played Allegheny closely 
for most of the first half despite some dif
ficulties that they had penetrating -the 
1-3-1 zone used by the Gators. Allegheny, 
on the other hand, was working the ball in
side and getting points from big-men Eric 
Lindberg and Dave Contardi.
The second half, however, was all Al
legheny and after only a few minutes, the 
Tartans fate was sealed. Lindberg and Jim 
Wheeler led the Gators, who are now tied 
with Bethany for the PAC lead, with 25 
and 20 points respectively.
The Tartans are at home tonight to face 
Bethany. Admission is $2.00 for adults and 
50 cents for students and all proceeds go to 
the Jimmy Starr Scholarship Fund. CMU 
travels to W & J on Thursday for the sea
son finale.
TWO GAME STATISTICS
CMU vs. Thiel
CMUFGFT-APts
Hobart42-410
Hufnagel50-210
Hofmeister45-513
Belechak46-614
Defilippo32-38
Donahoe20-04
2215-2159
ThielFGFT-APts
Curran100-020
Costo52-212
Scaratti20-04
Benedetto50-010
Maher20-04
O.Brien0444
246-654
Senior co-captains Mariano DeFilippo (above) and Larry Hufnagel (No. 32, below) will play their 
final game in Skibo Gym tonight when the Tartans square off against the Bethany Bisons at 8:00 PM.
CMU vs. Allegheny
CMUFGFT-APts
Hobart20-04
Hufnagel77-821
Hofmeister30-06
Belechak20-04
Defilippo20-04
Donahoe10-02
Novak20-04
Lewis04-54
Zuilhof0
19
2-2
13-15
2
51
AlleghenyFGFT-APts
Lindberg710-1125
Contardi41-29
Dawson12-44
C. Jones22-66
Wheeler84-420
Murphy40-08
Dalton11-13
Brandt10-02
D. Jones1
29
0-0
21-25
2
79
Hufnagel: Player of the Week
Have you ever heard the expression, 
You cant keep a good man down?
If all else fails when opposing coaches 
and players shake their heads in frustration 
after another futile effort of attempting 
to stop Carnegie-Mellon forward Larry 
Hufanagel, at least they can console them
selves in this fact: Stopping Hufnagel has 
been a problem that has run rampant 
throughout the Presidents Athletic 
Conference for the better part of three 
years, now.
A year ago, the 6-6 senior paced the 
PAC-8 in scoring (21.4), while shooting 
with the third-best accuracy from the field 
(60.0) and tenth-best percentage fro the 
free throw line (76.0) in the loop, not to 
mention picking off the fifth-best aver
age number of rebounds (9.2).
By seasons end, there was little doubt 
in the majority of the minds of the leagues 
coaches: Hufnagel was the PAC-8 Most 
Valuable Player.
The 1979-80 league campaign began 
somewhat slowly for Huffy; or, at 
least it seemed that way as, in the seasons 
early going, his statistics were not quite 
UP to par by Hufnagel standards.
Well maybe some were taking Huf
nagel for granted, for now, he is right 
where you would expect him.
Following a 46-point, 23-rebound week 
in which he led the Plaid of CMU to 
victories over John Carroll (84-54) and
il 
li -
Larry Hufnagel has been chosen PAC-8 Player of 
the Week for the fifth week of the season.
Case Western Reserve (76-60), the name 
Hufnagel is, once, again, a familiar inclu
sion to four of the PAC-8 five individual 
categories.
At present, he is second in scoring 
(18.5) and rebounding (10.9), as well as 
field goal percentage (60.7), and is now 
among the top ten in free throw accuracy 
(71.4).
A native of Pittsburgh and of South 
Hills Catholic High School, Hufnagel has 
earned the PAC-8 Player of the Week 
citation following the loops fifth week of 
play, his second achievement during the 
past week.
In the victory over Case Western Re
serve, he also surpassed the 1,000-point 
career plateau.
PAC LEADERS
Scoring 
Name (School)GFGFTPts.Avg.Damico (W&J)8663316520.6Jackson, Ken (CWRU)8583415018.7Hayes (B)8494814618.2Hufnagel (CMU)85137139. 17.4Colombo (JCU)8533113717.1Wheeler (A)8463412615.7Curran (T)7422611015.7Pratt (W&J)8531712315.4Jackson, Kevin (H)8472411814.7McCaffrey (JCU)8521311714.6
13.8Lindberg (A)84423111
Rebounding 
Name (School)GNo.Avg.
Assists
Name (School)GNo.Avg
Hayes(B)89011.3De Filippo (CMU)8465.8
Hufnagel (CMU)88610.8Wheeler (A)8445.5Lindberg (A)8779.6Westphal (W&J)8405.0Withrow (W&J)7628.8Jackson, Ken (CWRU8334.1
Hofmeister (CMU)7628.8Pratt (W&J)8324.0Winovich (B)7568.0Donahoe (CMU)8 *30b l
Maire (H)5397.8Jones. C. (A)8303 7Jackson, Kevin (H)8617.6McCaffrey (JCU)8303.7Colombo (JCU)8567.0Benedetto (T)7233 2Yakovac (W&J)8567.0Fenton (B)g253 1
Curran (T)1456.4Hayes(B)s253.1Costo (T)6386.4Gongola ( B)o243.0Contardi (A)849 jrfScajpitti (T)824'3,0
Colmbo (JCU)82'>2 7
>

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22TARTANFebruary 19, 1980
Tartans downed twice in women's hoop action
by Skip Thrope
Theres nothing worse than a good loser 
but there are instances when if one looks 
hard enough, they can find some positive 
aspects in the agony of defeat. This was the 
case with both womens basketball games 
this week. On Wednesday night, the 
women traveled to St. Francis to play The 
Big Red Flash.
Kassie Segmiller was her usual awesome 
self, scoring 32 points as the Tartans suf
fered their twelth loss of the year, 80-67. 
Debbie Durr, playing her best basketball of 
the season, scored 15 points. Debbie was 
sidelined at the beginning of the season 
with stress fractures and since returning to 
the line-up has steadily improved and last 
Saturday she completely dominated Robert 
Morris on the boards.
The Colonials, a powerful team with tre
mendous height were lucky to crawl away 
with the win, 50-38. Robert Morris, boast
ing such players as Ruth Lane, an all-state 
selection from North Catholic and Jill 
Anderson, another all-state choice out of 
Shaler, found the Tartans Defense tough to
penetrate. The Tartans tallest player is 58 
center Debbi Durr. The average height of 
the entire Robert Morris squad is at least 
5.8.
The Tartans shooting percentage was 
56% against St. Francis and a miserable 
23% against Robert Morris. Improvement is 
evident in their all around performance and 
their attitude but they are running out of 
time to prove just how much better they 
are than their record indicates.
Saturdays game was the beginning. This 
was the type of performance they needed 
six weeks ago. This week is crucial even 
though all hopes of a conference champion
ship have disappeared.
On Wednesday they play Bethany in the 
Skibo gym at 6:00 PM. This is the last 
home game and senior recognition (Hint! 
Segmiller) for Denise Stella Ryan and 
Gale Rinky Dink Gammer dinger. CMU 
lost to Bethany by 3 earlier in the season. 
On Saturday the women play W&J away. 
A victory over the Presidents would make 
the sweat and the sore muscles of the last 
four months worthwhile for everyone.
Hockey benefit scheduled
The Annual Benefit All-Star Hockey 
Classic between the WPIHL and Erie all 
stars will be played this year on Sunday, 
March 2, at 6:00 PM in the Pittsburgh 
Civic Arena following the NHL contest 
pitting the Penguins against the New York 
Islanders!
Although the player selections for the
25 high school boys will not be made final 
until February J9, me coaches have al
ready been picked. Bob Burke of the 
league leading North Catholic Trojans (15-
1-1) and Dan Sheehy of the second place 
Churchill Chargers (13-3-0) will instruct 
this years all stars.
The WPIHL roster will be compiled of 
two players from each team in section I, 
one player from each section II squad, with 
the goalies being selected by a vote of all 
coaches in both sections. That totals a 
group of 23 players. The remaining two 
will be chosen oy Sheehy ana Burke from a 
list of four players submitted by every club.
continued on page 23
Academic All-American candidate Kassie Segmiller turns toward the basket against Washington and 
Jefferson. The final home game of the season for the Lady Tartans will be tomorrow night at 
6:00 PM against Bethany.
Tartans swim past prexies
by Randy Condon and Laurie Southorn
The CMU Swimmers continued their 
winning ways last Saturday as they de
feated Washington and Jefferson 58-55 in a 
meet in Washington. Todd Reinke, Jim 
Matysek, and budding star Mike Kochanowski led the charge this week for the Tar
tans, winning three events apiece. Reinke 
captured the sprints while Matysek won 
the 200 yd. Individual Medley and 200 
yd. breaststroke. Kochanowski, after a 
short rise following his victory in the 
grueling 200 yd. butterfly, anchored the 
freestyle relay in a come-from-behind 
win for the third week in a row. Coach 
Pecmans 7-3 record is the best in re
cent memory. The Tartans finish the 
regular season on the road against Al
legheny next Saturday.
United WhyMOSTiK WILL BE ON CAMPUS
A world leader in MOS integrated circuits and systems, headquartered in Dallas, Texas, will be 
interviewing here soon Check with the placement office for more information
Most 1200 W Crosby Hoad CarroMon. Texas 75006 We are an equal opportunity employer, milt
MOSTEK
A Philip Pelusi haircut for $5.00!! 
Register for haircutting classes. 
Call 261-6550 or stop at our salon 
in Squirrel Hill or the Bank Center.
University Food Service Jobs Available

---------------------------------------------------

February 19,1980TARTANPage 23
r*
L>arnegie quintet upsets West Virginia team, 70-69
EDITORS NOTE: The following article 
appeared 25 years ago as our Tartans did 
battle against the West Virginia Mountain
eers featuring then sophomore sensation 
and soon to be NBA star Hot Rod"Hun
dley. We thought you would enjoy this 
look back at Carnegie-Mellon's illustrious 
sports past.
Fresh from three straight losses, the lat
est being to Pitt at the field house, the 
tiresome Tartans knocked over the West 
Virginia 70-69 before 6200 fans at Morgan
town. Dick Fielers one hander with six 
seconds left provided the margin victory.
After trailing throughout the entire 
game, the Mountaineers finally caught up 
and went ahead when Bergines converted 
two free throws. Moving the ball quickly 
downfloor, Fielers shot squared matters 
for the defeat that Tech suffered earlier in 
the year.
Early Lead
The Tartans jumped off to an early lead 
after the lead had changed five times. After 
a side set by Fieler Tech added nine more 
in a row to widen the gap to 16-8. After 
three points by Hundley, Tech added nine 
more in a row to give them a 14 point mar
gin at 25-11. The mighty mites, who out-_
ran and outshot the bigger Mountaineers, 
and played them even on the backboards 
during the first half, finished with a 37-28 
bulge at halftime. A1 Frank accounted for
11 points to lead the way.
WVU Comeback
Led by Rod Hundley, West Virginias 
sophomore sensation, the Mountaineers 
slowly but steadily whittled down the lead. 
With Hot Rod hitting on long jump shots 
and hooks from the corner, the Mountain
eers pulled to within three points of the 
Tartans at 4340. Outside shooting by Bill 
Dosey and Fieler kept the difference at 
three to five points until goals by Hundley 
and Whitting reduced it to 55-54. With 
about a minute to play the score was 66-65, 
when Dosey put in two fouls, but Spadafore drove in for a layup and Bergines sank 
a foul shot to give the lead back to West 
Virginia, 69-68, and set the stage for Fieliers winning toss.
Team Victory
Led by Bill Dosey, who played a terr
ific game and was high scorer with 17 
points, Tech clearly outplayed the bigger 
Mountaineers, who were outhustled. Play
ing a bit more conservatively in the second 
half, the Morgantown boys had a chance to 
catch up, as Hundley hogged the scoring 
honors with 35 points. Four Tech scorers 
were bunched together, with Dosey at 17 
points, 13 of them in the second half, 
A1 Frank with 15, and just as many re
bounds, and Fieler and Boyd at 12 apeice.
This week the Tartans travel to Geneva 
on Wednesday, meet Penn State here at the 
Tech gym on Friday, and travel again Sat
urday to play W & J at Washington.
CARNEGIE TECH
WPIHL stars in benefit
continued from page 22
A portion of the games proceeds will go 
to benefit the National Society for Autistic 
Children. Tickets can be purchased for 
$2.25 at Gate One of the Civic Arena or 
from any area hockey club.
Player awards will be given to each side 
in the categories of Most Valuable Forward 
and Most Valuable Defensemari. The
awards will be decided by a panel of five 
media personel consisting of: Dave Herbst 
and Jonathan Lansner of the Pittsburgh 
Press, Jane Clark and Kelly Randall of 
radio station WPEZ, and Stewart Kaufman, 
sports producer for KDKA-TV. Wiffembird, 
The original mascot of Pittsburgh, from 
WSFM-97 will also be on hand to spur the 
talented high school stars.
GFP
Fieler,f6012
Boyd,f5212
Frank, c4715
Dosey, g6517
Mocker, g168
Miller204
Foetz 1
WEST VIRGINIA
02
GFP
Bergines, f226
Hundley, f*3935
Whitting, c4210
Spadafore,g237
Holt,g000
Kishbaugh,g102
White, c259
Mullins000
TOTALS242169
Carnegie Tech3733-70
West Virginia2841-69
Word of Mouth is the Best Advertising.
Qi iro u/o rni ilH toll \/m i tVol it tho ovritinnSure, we could tell you about the exciting 
challenge and great rewards at 
Honeywells Small Medium Information 
Systems Division. All about the 
tremendous success of our minicomputer 
and terminal products. We could even go 
on to boast about our environment 
where products, projects, policies and 
procedures are completely 
state-of-the-art. But we wont. Well let 
you find out for yourself.
We know that the best way to get a feel for 
what Honeywells really like is through the 
eyes of Honeywell professionals.
Just read what they have to say:
Sound good? If youd like to be part of our 
organizationmaybe even join our 
Manufacturing Management or advanced 
Engineering Programmeet with us when we 
visit your campus. And maybe youll find 
yourself part of our next ad.
Our Honeywell S/MISD representatives will be 
looking for you when we visit your campus next 
week. Check with your Placement Office for
time and date.
If you are unable to meet with us on campus, 
we invite you to send your resume to:Art Carter Honeywell S/MISD 300 Concord Road, Mailstation 804 Billerica, MA 01821
Esther Sanchez, Boston University,
Manufacturing Management ProgramDue to the variety of assignments available and the different types of people with which I interface through the Manufacturing Management Program, I feel I'm obtaining the basic tools to achieve my career goals in management."
Reeni Goldin, Pratt Institute,
Advanced Engineering ProgramThrough rotating work assignments and graduate courses towards a Master's degree, an entry level person can gain broad exposure to the mini-computer business in a relatively short period of time ."
Ching Ching Ganley, Clarkson College,
ManagerOffice Systems Support
Instead of dealing with only one or two main products, Honeywell is almost unique in that it offers a large number of diversified product lines.I feel one can be exposed to all aspects of the computer industry by simply working for Honeywell.'
Derek Jones, Colgate University,
Manager of Product PlanningIn the years I've been with Honeywell Ive noticed an increased growth in both the demand for and acceptance of our products. I think Honeywell offers young people the opportunity to make significant contributions to and growth within the company. '
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/HHoneywell
People,Dur Competitive 
Ldge
F.A. or NonApply Room 62, Skibo

---------------------------------------------------

p^ge 24-T ART AN-February 19,1980
18 GAME INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS
NAME
Hufnagel, Larry 
Belechak, Joe 
Hobart, Buddy 
Hofmeister, Dave 
Donahoe, Dan 
DeFilippo, Mariano 
Lcwn. s , John 
Ngvak, Greg 
C*ancy, Tom 
Bennett, Pete 
Zuilhof, Jon 
Hudson, Randy 
Mulac, Carl 
OK TOTALS 
OPP TOTALS
SCORES
CMU 74 Edinboro (A) 80
<;MU 79 Pitt-Johnstovn (A) 87
MU 82 Walsh (H) 70
i'MU 69 Bucknell (H) 78
ML 7f Westminster (A) 67
Ml 71 Slippery Rock (H) 58
'Ml' 6S Baptist Bible (H) 34
< Ml' 6" LaRoche (A) 82
< Ml 7; John Carroll (A> 73
*.MU 59 Hiram (H) 46
'MU 81 Thiel (H) 58
'MU 61 Case Western (A) 62
Ml 5 Bethany (A) 84
OMU 7.- Allegheny (H) 83
MU 7: W & J (H) 81
MU 7" Hi ran (A) 58
Ml S- -ohn Carroll (Hi 54
.ML' CO f.isfc Western i RPA 60
GFGM-FGAPCTFTM-FTAPCTRBS/AVGASSTSPF/DQTOPTS-AVC '
18126-206.61280-110.727181/10.12364/348332/18.4
1799-210.47139-54.72269/4.15338/151237/13.91878-183.42638-60.633100/5.62434/036194/10.81768-133.51124-37.649125/7.41057/329160/9.41847-113.4167-12.58337/2.19022/041101/5.61658-133.43613-20.65019/1.282 30/042129/8.1
1622-49.4495-8.62534/2.1321/01349/3.1
1526-43.60510-16.62522/1.5719/0862/4.1
94-9.4443-7.4292/0.243/0711/1.2 44-6.6671-11.0001/0.2531/049/2.383-4.7500-1.0008/1.016/026/0.8
51-2.5001-2.5006/1.202/023/0.6
30-2.0000-0.0001/0.312/020/0.0
18536-1093.490221-325.680718/39.9301299/72701293/31.518514-1175.437187-265.706658/36.6234309/72321215/67.5
LEADINGSCORERSLEADINGREBOUNDERSegg salad!
Belechak 14, DeFilippo 14, Hobart I"?
Hobart 21, Donahoe 16, Hufnagel 15
Hufnagel 26, Belechak 21
Hufnagel 24, Belechak 17
Hufnagel 22, Hofmeister 17, Belechak
Hufnagel 21, Belechak 20
Belechak 16, Hobart 12
Hufnagel 22, DeFilippo 12
DeFilippo 20, Novak 17
Hufnagel 16, Hobart 14
Hufnagel 15, Novak 14
Hufnagel 23, Belechak 12
Hufnagel 11
Belechak 22, Hufnagel 14, Hofmeister 
25, Hobart 12, Belechak 12 
Hofmeister 20
k'bart
Belechak 11, Hufnagel 10, Hofmeister S
Hufnagel
Hufnagel?3,
Belechak 2CO Hufnagel 16, 
Hufnage 30, Belechak 13
i 
Hofmeister 10, Belechak 
Hufnagel 13, Hobart 6 
Hofmeister S, Hufnagel 7 
16 Hofmeister 11, Hufnagel 7 
Hufnagel 9 
Hobart 6
Hufnagel 15, Hobart 6 
Hobart 8, Hufnagel 7 
Hofmeister 12 
Hofmeister 12, Hufnagel l. 
Hufnagel 10, Hofmeister 7 
Hufnagel 8, Hofmeister 7 
14 Hofmeister 11, Hufnagel 8. 
Hufnagel 21
Hufnagel 16, Hofmeister 8 
Hobart ] 4 Hufnage I j r>
------tiiifnaoc! 'l'i__________
Hufnagel
* f
Hughes is hews
We make engineering and scientific history year after year. Like 1976, when five Hughes-developed satellites went Into orbit.
If you come to work with us, weN both make news in your home-town paper.
Help Hughes Aircraft Company make news. And electronic miracles. And history. (And no airplanes.)Ask your placement office when Hughes recruiters will be on campus.
HUGHES
Creating a new world with electronics
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F
An IM sport for every taste.
by Leslie Weiser
There are a lot of sports going on or 
coming up so Ill get right to them.
Basketball intramurals are swiftly 
approaching a close with playoffs in the 
near future. The standings are posted on 
the IM bulletin board. Please be sure to 
not the winning team and score. All teams 
are required to provide a game official.
A bridge commissioner is still needed. 
The tournament will be starting soon. The 
last day for entries is February 21st.
Handball also needs a commissioner. 
Play starts this week.
Backgammon players are reminded to 
get games played and turn in scores. The 
commissioner is Cathy Jensen, phone 
6874684.
The wrestling commissioner is Marc 
Poland from Kappa Sigma, phone 687- 
6308. Practice sessions are Monday, Wed
nesday and Friday from 4:30 to 6:30 PM 
in the Blue Room next to the handball 
courts. The tournament will be held in 
Thistle Hall, Saturday, March 8 at 1:30 PM.
Water basketball entries are due Feb
ruary 21st. The Commissioner is Gregg 
Werbanethphone 681 -7162.
Table Tennis schedules for singles and 
doubles will be out this week. The com
missioner is Jim Satrape, phone 683-1699.
Other sports with entries due February 
21st are Individual Call Pool, Foul 
Shooting, Co-Rec Badminton and Co-Rec 
Table Tennis.
Sports with entries due March 6th are 
Team Badmitton, Softball, Archery. 
Fencing, and IM Swim Meet.
There will be an important IM Board 
Meeting Thursday February 21st 12:30 PM 
Room 104 Gym.
. 
. 4
GET YOUR CAREER OFF TO A FLYING START
It takes four years to get a college degree. How 
long will it take you to get a good job?If you haven't settled on a company or corporation yot, why not get your executive career off to a flying start as a pilot or navigator in the United States Air Force? It's the finest flight program in the world, the pay is excellent, and you II enjoy the prestige that goes with the silver wings of an Air Force pilot or navigator.
If s one of the finest opportunities in the nation. And a great place to gain executive experience with million dollar responsibility. Find out today about the Air Force flight program. Contact
SAM TALTON: 644-2705
iimu^LzA great way of Me
BobHopesays:Red Cross can teach you first aid.And first aid canbea life saver.

---------------------------------------------------

Imagine Yourself A Career. 
Then Make It Happen At 
Honeywell
At Honeywell, you can turn your ambitious goals 
into a dynamic career. Our leading market position 
and progressive business posture allow us to ex
tend unparalleled opportunities for professional expression. Honeywells stimulating working en
vironment promotes and supports individual growth 
through a responsive attitude and an abundance 
of unique involvements. If your objectives and qualifi
cations match ours, consider a rewarding future with Honeywell.
AVIONICS DIVISION 
ST. PETERSBURG, FLORIDA
Located in St. Petersburg, Fbrida, the Avionics Divi
sion concentrates on the design and manufacture of navigation guidance and control systems including instrumentation, aerospace computers and memories 
for military and commercial applications. Key capa
bilities include inertial sensing, signal processing, 
digital control, electro-optical fire control, and microwave ranging.
Primary needs are for BS/M$EE and BSME candidates for Devebpment, Design, Production and Product Assurance Engineering positions.
LARGE INFORMATION SYSTEMS 
DIVISIONPHOENIX
Located in Phoenix, the Large Information Systems 
Division (USD) is involved with the product planning 
design, development and manufacture of Honey
wells large-scale computer systems.
USD is seeking BSEE and BS Computer Science 
candidates to fill software specialist and engineering 
positions in Software Devebpment and Engineering. 
Also, there are a limited number of openings for 
BSEE and Computer Science candidates for the three 
year Advanced Engineering Program which includes 
graduate educatbn toward advanced degrees.
PROCESS CONTROL DIVISION 
FT. WASHINGTON, PA
Located in Ft. Washington, PA, the Process Control Divisbn specializes in industrial automation. Products 
include the microprocessor based TDC 2000, whose modular and integrated architecture distributes control 
throughout the process as well as a complete line 
of sensors, indicators, recorders, control valves and applied components to handle such process variables 
as temperature, pressure, fbw level and composition.
Primary needs are for BS/MSEE candidates.
PROCESS MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS 
DIVISIONPHOENIX, ARIZ.
Located in Phoenix, the Process Management Systems Divisbn is involved in research, design, devebpment and manufacture of computer systems for 
management of large industrial complexes and electric utilities. The diviision provides systems which give it a leadership role in the vital area of energy manage
ment.
Primary needs are for BS/MSEE, Computer Science 
and Physics candidates for Systems, Electronic and Software engineering positions.
REPRESENTATIVES FROM THESE 
DIVISIONS WILL BE 
INTERVIEWING ON CAMPUS 
MARCH 3RD.
ELECTRO-OPTICS CENTER 
LEXINGTON, MA
Located in Lexington, Mass., the Electro-Optics Center is involved in the development of electro-optical systems that include mercury cadmium telluride detectors and detector arrays, infrared reconnaissance sets and forward-boking infrared radar sys
tems.
Primary needs are for BSEE, MSEE and Physicists, 
PhD Physicist (Solid State) and Material Scientist.
SMALL/MEDIUM INFORMATION SYSTEMS 
BILLERICA, MA
Located in the Boston area, Small/Medium Information Systems Division (S/MISD), manufactures and 
supports the growing family of Level 6 minicomputer 
systems, VIP terminals and peripherals for world
wide distribution.
Positions in all areas of computer design and devebpment, engineering, manufacturing, programming 
and technical writing are available for individuals with 
Bachebrs degrees in EE, ME, Industrial Tech., Com
puter Science and Math.
In additbn, positions are available in the Advanced 
Engineering and Manufacturing Management Pro
gram. Each of these are three-year job-rotatbn programs leading to the attainment of a Masters degree and technical leadership position in engineering or 
manufacturing.
REPRESENTATIVES FROM THESE 
DIVISIONS WILL BE 
INTERVIEWING ON CAMPUS 
MARCH 4TH.
Check with your placement office to verify recruiting dates and to sign on our schedule. Ask for a copy of our brochure, or write to: E. von Heimburg, Manager 
of University Relations, HONEYWELL, INC., Honeywell Plaza, Minneapolis, MN 55408.
Honeywell
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H

---------------------------------------------------

OFFER JOBS
Theres a big difference. The MITRE Cor
poration has two major locations, with 11 
technical divisions and 63 departments. Our 
1573 members of the technical staff provide 
systems solutions to Federal, state, regional 
and local governmental agencies. Theres plen
ty of opportunity to grow in responsibility.
Many companies offer you a job which can 
broaden your career. But when the challenge 
is gone, most professionals seek a new com
pany with a new job and a new challenge. At 
MITRE we recognize this need for new chal
lenges and new opportunities. With dozens 
of sponsors and scores of projects in a wide 
varietv of technologies we offer the oppor
tunity' to CHANGE JOBS WITHOUT 
CHANGING COMPANIES. The direction 
of your career at MITRE is up to you. Well 
help you stay on track through our staff 
development programs. We offer I007f tuition 
prepayment and company paid professional 
growth seminars.
At our facility in Bedford, Massachusetts 
(just outside Boston), were l<x)king at all 
kinds of command, control and communica
tions problems as technical advisor to the Air 
Forces Electronic Systems Division.
At our McLean, Virginia facility (just out
side Washington, D.C.), we're nor only work
ing on defense and military systems but also 
on significcnt problems in air traffic control; 
energy resources and the environment; civil
information systems; information manage
ment and communications systems; ground 
transportation and more. Much more.
At either location, opportunities constantly 
arise to challenge your intelligence, your 
knowledge, your motivation. In search of 
solutions, MITRE people use the tools of 
systems engineering and analysis. If this type 
of atmosphere intrigues you and if you have 
a degree (or are about to receive one) in elec
trical engineering, computer science, math, 
physics, or economics, wed like to know 
more about you. See your Placement Office 
to set up an on-campus interview, or send 
your resume directly to:
Jerome P. McKinnon 
The MITRE Corporation 
Bedford, MA 01730
Ronald S. Hill 
Washington Center 
The MITRE Corporation 
1820 Dolley Madison Blvd. 
McLean, VA 22102
MITRE will be at
Carnegie Mellon 
on March 10,1980
MITRI-', is Th i\jiulnft/iortnmty employer, Mtiirly nrkma ./>/>//. Mumt ttiiiLr its Affimutiiv Action nigrum.
coming events
music
February 21 at 8:00 PM
Carnegie- Mellon University Contemporary 
Ensemble will present a concert, free of 
charge in the Alumni Concert Hall on the 
CMU campus.
February 21 & 23 at 8:00 PM
II Trovatore at Heinz Hall
James McCraken will sing lead role of 
"Manrico". Tickets are still available. 
Call 281-0912 for more information.arts
February 20 at 7:30 PM
Parallels in Art and Play Therapy
For more information call 683-5634
February 20 at 8:00 PM
CMU Design Lecture Series in Room 
100 of Porter Hall. Free admission and 
open to public.sports
(unCivic Arena & Exhibit Hall
Admission $2 50/adult, $1.50/child 
der 12).
February 20 at 7:30 PMHockey-Penguins 
vs. Detroitspecial
February 20 & 21
Auditions for Gilbert & Sullivan's The 
Mikado for the South Campus Performing 
Arts Department. For more information 
call 469-100 ext.390.
All showings in DH 2210 at 6,8,10,12 
unless otherwise noted. Admission $1.00 
with CMU I.D./$1.25 without.
February 21
Beauty and the Beast 
February 23 
AB Coffeehouse
"Bobby Anuci" by Hush Esten w/ music 
by the Combo Tactic
films
wrct
WRCT
"What's your Beef
Wednesday night, 11:00PM 
with Mark Andrews Michael West and Molly 
This week:
Mark Andrews will officially announce 
his intent to run for the "Alpha Phi Omega 
Ugliest Man on Campus Candidacy. Live 
coverage from the William Pencil Hotel, 
downtown.
February 23 at 6:00 PM 
Airplay
February 19, at 7:30 PM
German Director, Werner Herzog will 
make a rare appearance in the Carnegie 
Institute Lecture Hall 
February 19 at 7:30 PM 
Heart of Glass by Werner Herzog 
Admission $1.50 L.H.
February 21 at 8:00 PM 
George Griffin visiting filmmaker lec
turing. Admission $1.00 M.O.A.
February 23 at 1:30 PM & 3:30 PM 
The Time Machine by George Pal 
Admission $1.50 M.O.A.
February 24 at 7:30 PM 
Liebelei by Max Ophuls 
Admission $1.50 L.H.
February 21 at 8:30 PM 
"Free Climb" at A.V.H. Headquarters 
6300 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside / For more 
information, call 766-2126.
ALONE AND PREGNANT?
A caring, confidential friend, 
LIFELINE. DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
562-0543. Fraa Pregnancy Tasting. 
Evoning Hours Aval labia

---------------------------------------------------

classified
Will type term papers, etc. Reasonable
rates. Call before 9 PM, Shirley. 521-0534. 
uoTm e80,N ib1IneC gMUUvgsUUU
Stuffing envelopesGuaranteed. Send selfaddressed stamped envelope to: DEXTER 
ENTERPRISES, 3039 Shrine PI., Los An
geles, CA 90007.
For Sale: Michelin ZX Steel Belted Radials.
Only 2000 miles. Perfect Condition. Call 
421-8493.
Salesperson and warehouse worker parttime and full-time.'Masterwork Paint Co., 
6280 Broad St., 361-8770.
Wanted: Occasional babysitter for evenings 
and possibly after school) 422-7180. 
Wanted: 10-speed bike. Call x2993 be
tween 1-3 PM. Reider Conradi.
Shadyside: Lux 1 Bd. Apt., dw, A/C,
w-w intercom, 3rd,ret. required. $250 plus 
electric, 3-5 PM, 462-7319. After 5 PM, 
362-8887.
Bloomfield: Furnished 1 and 2 bedroom
apts. $200-$250 plus utilities. Close to 
everything. Parking. 3-5 PM, 462-7319; 
after 5 PM, 362-8887.
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS: Are you
interested in studying the Bible? Call 
687-6859.
JOB HUNTING? Get more interviews
with a professionally prepared, indivi
dually designed resume from employ
ment experts. Complete writing, editing, 
typing and printing services. Special 
student discount rates! Call today! 
MANGO - ANDREWS RESUM' 
391-3232.
attention: Pre-medical student at Univer
sity of Pittsburgh seeks young lady for 
friendship, togetherness, and marriage. 
Send replies to: Box 71043, Pittsburgh, 
PA 15213.
TYPING -fast, accurate on new SmithCorona machine, only $.75 page. Deborah 
Payne 441-7488, evenings.
Want it done right? Professional typing, ed
iting prepared by PhD graduate. Manu
scripts, term papers, theses, dissertations. 
IBM selectric. Prompt, efficient, reason
able. Convenient location. Susan,281-5222. 
Part-time student for any 3-4 evenings,
15 hrs/weekly. $5.43 per hour, car helpful, 
hours flexible. Call (3 PM - 6 PM) 682-2652 
Silver coins wanted. Highest prices. After
5 PM. 521-2749.clubs
Attention Talented People: We are looking
for novelty acts such as mimes, comedians, 
musicians, etc. for the Spring Carnival 
Cabaret to be held April 19,1980. PAY
IS INCLUDED. Auditions will be held 
Wednesday, February 27 at 7PM in the 
Skibo Ballroom. For more information 
call Chris, x4886.
CMU Explorer's Club meets every week,
Thursday, 7 PM, in Room 11 Skibo. We 
do cross-country skiing, backpacking, hiking, 
caving, climbing, sailing, etc. The club has 
equipment for loan on club trips or for 
rent at nominal fees for private use by 
members of the CMU community. Call 
Steve, 361-3788, Rich, x3069 or Jim, 
421-8130 for more information.
Attention Other Talented People: We are
looking for street musicians, jugglers, 
magicians, sidewalk chalk artists, organ 
grinders (prefer with monkey), etc. for 
the Spring Carnival re-creatior> of 
Greenwich Village. PAY IS INCLUDED. 
Hours flexible. If you are interested, call 
Jane at x4387 or Chris at x4886.
The 1981 THISTLE Editorial Board 
has begun work on the 1981 yearbook. 
The following senior editorial positions are 
open: Layout editor and Copy editor. 
In addition, the following junior editorial 
positions are open: Art Director, Asst. 
Layout Editor, Sales Manager, Advertising 
Manager, Asst, Copy Editor, and Head 
Photographer. Positions must be filled by 
full-time CMU students. If interested, or 
for more information, contact Chris 
Barrett, x4065, or leave a note on the 
THISTLE office door. Application dead
line: Friday, February 22.
The Student Senate Academic Affairs 
Committee meets every Thursday at 
4:00 in Skibo Room 13. The general 
public is invited to bring any academic 
concern to this committee.
The 1981 THISTLE Senior and Junior 
Editorial Boards will meet Wednesday, 
February 27, 7:30 PM in the THISTLE 
office.
 Student Corporation is proud to announce
its February Break Ski Trip. For just $26.00 
you get round trip transportation to Seven 
Springs, all day lift ticket, ski lesson, and 
ski rental. The date of this trip is Monday, 
February 25. For more information or to 
make reservations call Mike at 578-4745.
1979 THISTLEs ar available for pick
up at the Skibo Info Desk.
The CMU Hillel club will meet at 6:30 PM 
on Sun. Feb. 24 in the Hillel House, 131 
Margaret Morrison.
Senate meeting times  General meets on
Tuesday at 6:30 in Wherrett; Rules Com
mittee meets at 6:00 on Thursday in Rm 
33, Finance Committee meets 5:30 on 
Wednesday in Rm 12.
CMU's Philosophy Club will have its first
meeting of the Spring semester tonight, 
Tuesday, February 19 at 8 PM in the H&SS 
Lounge, BH 254 C. Prof. Griffiths, Physics, 
will talk on "Science and Religion: The 
Role of Faith with discussion following. 
Everyone is invited. Refreshments will be 
served.
Scotch -n' Soda i ;eskina designers fnr the
Spring Musical show poster and logo. If 
you are interested in submitting a design, 
please call the SNS office at x3522, or 
Tom at x4270.
The International Student Organization of
CMU will hold its weekly meeting in Skibo 
Room 12 at 6 PM. The organization of 
upcoming events and the Draft Constitu
tion for ISO-CMU will be discussed. All 
interested students, both American and 
foreign, are invited to attend.general
A lox and bagels brunch sponsored by the
Poale Zedeck-B'nai B'rith Hillel program 
for Young Jewish adults will begin at 
11:30 AM on Sun. Feb. 24 in the Hille! 
Lounge, 315 S. Bellefield.
JE- - '/Svr V-.- *- X ly." j -.VJ-;..
Pushers, Builders, Drivers
Daily Mass is celebrated by the University
 Oratory Parish (Roman Catholic Chaplain
cy) Monday through Friday at 12:30 noon
time in CMU's chapel (Skibo 39). If your 
lunch hour is short, please feel free to eat 
your lunch first and then join us Eucharist. 
Open to all. For more info call 681-3181. 
Shabbat services and dinner will begin at 
5:30 at B'nai B'rith Hillel,315 S. Belle
field. Tonight is a $2.50 special in honor of 
our guest from Israil, Scholar-in-Residence, 
Dr. Atara Sherman. Reservations should be 
made in advance by calling 621-8875. 
Students and faculty are invited to have 
lunch on Wednesday February 20 in the 
Hillel Dining Center, 315 S. Bellefield 
Ave. Our guest will be Dr. Atara Sherman, 
Assistant Director of the Teachers' Train
ing Center of Wingate Institute, Israel's 
reknowned athletic institute.
SHROVE TUESDAY PANCAKE DINNER: 
The University Oratory Parish (Roman 
Catholic Chaplaincy) will celebrate Shrove 
Tuesday on February 19 with an antici
pated Mass for Ash Wednesday at 6:30 PM 
followed by a Pancake Dinner at The 
Oratory (4040 Bigelow Blvd.) Reserva
tions are essential. Phone 681-3181. Open 
to all.
ASH WEDNESDAY MASSES: The Univer
sity Oratory Parish ' (Roman Catholic 
Chaplaincy) will celebrate the beginning of 
Lent with Masses at 12 Noon and 5 PM in 
the Hunt -Library Multipurpose Room. 
Ashes will be distributed during the 
Liturgy. Open to the Campus Community. 
ICE SKATING PARTY: The University 
Oratory Parish has rented St. Edmund's 
Academy at 5700 Forbes Avenue for our 
exclusive use on Sunday, February 24 from 
6 PM until 9 PM Tickets: Adults $1.00; 
Children $0.50, Skate rental ($0.75), and 
refreshments are available at the door. For 
more information contact Fr. Robert 
English 681-3181. Take a 61 A, B, or C 
bus to St. Edmund's, near Murray Ave. 
The Third Leadership Development Session 
'for the UJA Campus Campaign for Israel 
will take place from 4:30-7:00 (including 
dinner) in the Rogal Room of the JCC, 
315 S. Bellefield. For more information, 
call Rachel, at 621-8875.
Hillel Sports Night will begin at 8:30 PM 
on Sat. Feb. 23 at the JCC. We will have 
use of the pool, gym, raquetball courts, 
and health club, until 11 PM followed by 
refreshments. Admission $1.00, Hillel 
Members, $.50.
Have a voice in Hillel programming! Come
to the Leadership Council meeting at 6 PM 
on Thursday, Feb. 21 at Hillel, 315 S. 
Bellefield Avenue.officialegg salad!
President Richard M. Cyert will have open
office hours for students between 3 and 5 
PM in his office on Tuesday, March 4. 
Students who wish to meet with the presi
dent should telephone his office, 578-2200, 
to set up an appointment. It is hoped that 
this program will be a benefit to both the 
president and the students in allowing 
students direct contact.with him.
John r. Crecine, Jean of the College of 
Humanities and Social Sciences, will have
open office hours for students on Tuesday 
from 1:30 to 3:30 PM.
The main lost ana found department for
the University is located at Security ,155 
Baker Hall. Items will be released to 
persons able to furnish an adequate de
scription, as well as the approximate time 
lost.
The Art SAC will be selling freshly brewed
coffee, tea, cocoa and doughnuts every 
Monday through Wednesday mornings
9 through 11:30 AM in the lobby of the 
3rd floor, CFA. Proceeds will finance the 
Fine Arts film series.
Majoring in Administration and Manage
ment Sciences. To CIT and MIS Fresh
men who want to be considered for ad
mission to CIT/MIS Track of A&MS. 
You should bring copy of Fall 1979 grades 
to the Department Office (GSIA 206) 
before March 1.
Art SAC has scheduled professional sculp
tor Alice Ay cock to visit the Art Depart
ment on Wednesday, February 20. She will - 
be showing slides of her work in the multi
purpose room of Hunt Library at 1:30 PM, 
and critiquing student work in the after
noon. Anyone interested in meeting the - 
artist of* seeing her work is encouraged to 
attend.scholarships
The College of Fine Arte. In cooperation
with The Park Players, wishes tc announce 
to the Faculty and students of the depart
ments of Drama and Music in CFA a $1000 
award for an original full-length musical 
(music, book and lyrics) to be performed 
in the summer of 1980 throughout 
Pittsburgh's outdoor public park system by 
a cast of six to eight with a small orchestra. 
The prize will be awarded to either one 
creator of the musical, or divided among 
co-creators.
To enter please submit a statement in 
addition to: one scene, a storyline and two 
songs recorded with musical accompani
ment on a cassette along with the score. 
Application should be sent to:
Roger Cox 
c/o The Office of the Dean 
CFA Room 100 
The deadline for the receipt of entries is 
February 29, 1980. Winner(s) will be an
nounced with the final commission on 
March 15, 1980.
The Pittsburgh Chapter of the American
Production and Inventory Control Society 
(APICS) will be awarding the David Allshouse $500 Memorial Scholarship on April 
11, 1980. This scholarship program is open 
to any full-time undergraduate student pur
suing a degree in some way related to the 
field of Production and Inventory Control. 
All entries in this program must be post
marked no later than March 14, 1980. The 
sum of all scores will determine the winner 
with a panel of experts independently 
rating each application. Finalists will be 
asked to substantiate all data furnished on#the application form. Official applica
tions may be obtained by writing to: 
Mr. J.W. Holmes, Mine Safety Appliance 
Company, 3880 Meadowbrook Road, Murrysville, Pa. 15668. Good Luck!
D
i -, V11 ^7*777
Thursday February 21
?
- - 
pImportant meeting
............
% 1  
t ;
! fX 
\ [9 PM Skibo Rm 11................i;
?
^ 'kfr
f
X y - r:y.}

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie-Mellon University
TENTATIVE UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE COURSES FOR SUMMER SESSIONS
(1) - First Session: May 13  June 20; (2) - Second Session: June 23  August 1
* - Graduate Course Number
Carnegie-Mellon University
during the summer, 1980, will hold two six-week sessions as follows: 
1 st SIX-WEEK SESSION 
May 13-June 20
Regular Undergraduate Courses
2nd SIX-WEEK SESSION 
June 23-August 1
Regular Undergraduate and Graduate 
Courses
UNDERGRADUATE TUITION: 
$38/unit**  All undergraduates 
GRADUATE TUITION: 
$77/unit** - CFA/CIT/MIS/AMS/H&SS $57/unit**  English and History 
M.A./D.A. candidates
#*3 units = 1 credit
This is a tentative list of courses to be 
offered. The actual list of courses including 
class schedules will be announced and pub
lished depending upon student response.
Application materials and further information 
will be mailed upon receipt of your inquiry.
Please give your tentative reply as soon as 
possible by completing the attached form 
and returning it to:
Director, Summer Studies 
Admissions Office
Carnegie-Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
Phone (412) 578-2085
Carnegie-Mellon University
Name
Present School
1 am interested in the following course(s)
Course NumberTitle Session
Please return this form to
Director, Summer Studies 
Admissions Office
Carnegie-Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa 15213
Chemistry:09-105Dynamics and Equilibria
09-117Organic Chemistry i
09-218Organic Chemistry II
Civil Engineering:12-207Statics
12-208Dynamics
12-211Solid Mechanics 1*21-319Materials
Computer Science:1S-104Introduction to Computer A (FORTRAN)
15-111Introduction to Computing B (non-FORTRAN)
Mathematics:21-121Calculus 1
21-121Calculus 1 (self-paced)
21-122Calculus II (regular or self-paced)
21-123Calculus III (regular or self-paced)
21-141Computational Linear Algebra
21-261Ordinary Differential Equations (self-paced only)
21-262Partial Differential Equations (self-paced only)21-263Vector Analysis (self-paced only)
21-267Qraph Theory ( self-paced bnly)
Mechanical24-112Fluid Mechanics 1
Engineering:24-121Thermodynamics 1
24-141Statics and Dynamics
24-202Mechanics of Deformable Solids
24-208Manufacturing Processes
24-291Engineering Economy
Metallurgy and27-322Process Metallurgy
Material* Science:27-332Physical Metallurgy II
27-390Seminar
27-799Metallurgical Problems
27-796Masters Project
27-779Thesis N
39-227Analysis, Synthesis and Evaluation II
Physics:33-107Energy, Technology and Society
33-121Physics 1: Mechanics (self-paced)
33-122Physics II: Heat Waves and Optics (self-paced)
33-123Physics 11: Electricity and Magnetism
33-129Electronics 1
Statistic:39-211Probability and Applied Statistics 1
36-212Probability and Applied Statistics II
36-219Probability and Statistics 1
36-216Probability and Statistics II
36-219Statistical Methods for Data Analysis 1
36-220Statistical Methods for Data Analysis II
Architecture:48-308,408Summer Architecture Studio
Design:91-102Introduction to Design
91-116Calligraphy
91-122Introduction to Photography
Music:97-182Solfege and Dictation 1
97-184Solfege and Dictation II
97-276Piano Pedagogy
97-867*Administration and Supervision In Music Education 
(7/14-8/1)
57-873*Principles of Music Education (6/23-7/11 )
97-879*Contemporary Problems In Music Education
97-880Dalcroze Eurhythmies Workshop 1
97-881Dalcroze Eurhythmies Workshop II
97-931*\Directed Research
Art:60-119,719*Drawing
60-120,720*Design: Theory and Application
60-226,726*Painting
60-231,731*Screen Printing
60-233,733*Relief
60-239,739*Lithography
60-237,737*Intaglio
60-294,794*Metalcrafts
60-261,761*Sculpture
60-380,780*Contemporary Art
I
5
1
70-101Elements of Industrial Administration
Management70-121Accounting 1
Science:70-311Organisational Behavior 1
70-332Government and Business
70-361Foundations of Law
70-371Production 1
70-391Finance 1
Economics:73-100Economic Analysis and Contemporary Problems 1
73-200Economic Orowtb and Fluctuations
73-290Resource Allocation in a Market Economy
73-390Topics In Applied Microeconomics
English:76-100Strategies for Writing
76-101Fiction and Fact
76-244Shakespeare
76-270Professional Writing
76-319,719*Special Topics In English: Modern Drama
79-391,791*Studies in Language and Linguistics
76-776*Theory and Practice of Rhetoric and Composition
History:79-223Problems In American History: The Presidency
79-282History of the Pittsburgh Region
79-290Recent American Foreign Policy
79-29120th Century America
79-477Soi and Death
79-491Europe In the Twentieth Century
79-700*Americans and the National Character
66-901 *Seminar In Curriculum Design
Modern Languages:92-101Intensive Beginning French
92-102Intensive Beginning French
92-121Intensive Beginning Oerman
92-122Intensive Beginning Oerman
92-141Intensive Beginning Spanish
92-142Intensive Beginning Spanish
82-402Spanish Conversation and Composition
Psychology:89-101Oeneral Psychology
9 units>
9 units1
9 units)
9 units)
9 units)
9 units)
9 units)
9 unitsM2)
9 units)(2)
11 units
11 units) (2)
11 units)(2)
11 units) ( 2 )
9 units) (2 )
4.5 unitsM2)
4.5 units1(2)
4.5 units) (2)
4.5 units) (2)
9 units)
9 units)
9 units)
10 units)
9 units)
9 units)
12 units)(2)
9 units)(2)
9 units1(2)
var. units) (2 )
var. units) (2 )
var. unitsM2)
9 unitsM2)
9 units)
10 unitsM2)
10 unitsM2)
10 unitsM2)
10 units)
9 unitsM2)
9 unitsM2)
9 units)
9 units
9 units1
9 unitsM2)
18 units
9 units
9 unitsM2)
6 units
6 units
6 units
6 units
6 units2)
6 units
3 units
9 units
9 units
9 units
9 units
9 units
9 units
9 units
9 units
9 units
9 units
9 units
9 units2)
9 units1
9 unitsM2)
9 unitsM2)
9 units2)
9 units)
9 units)
9 units)
9 units)
9 units)
9 units1
9 unitsh
9 unitsM2)
9 units
9 units
9 units2)
9 units2)
9 units2)
9 units2)
9 units2)
9 units
9 unitsM2)
9 unitsM2)
S^unlts1
9 unitsI
12 units2)
12 units2)
12 units)
12 units2)
1 2 units)
1 2 units2)
1 2 units1)
1 2 units 
9 units1)
9 units)
