Architecture in disarray; students concerned
The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, Volume 81, Number 4, September 30, 1980.
by Renee Rosenfeld
At a meeting last Wednesday night of 
one-half the students of the undergraduate 
Architecture program, student leaders 
released information regarding a series of 
discussions with University Administra
tors about conditions existing in the 
Department. In a statement to The Tartan, 
the students announced their intention to 
open formal avenues of communica
tion. The statement came in response to a 
chain of events that have caused Architec
ture students to become seriously con
cerned with the number of changes taking 
place within the department. Leaders 
hope that the meeting will spark support
by the entire department to enforce a gua
rantee of integrity.
Resignations spark concern 
Student concern is primarily focused on 
the Architecture administrations lack of 
clearly defined goals and objectives, since 
Louis Sauer took over as head, last fall. In 
addition, concern also centers around 
faculty and staff changes over the past two 
years. These concerns were ignited last 
spring by the resignation of Delbert High
lands as Chairman of the Level Review 
Committee. The resignations of Assistant 
Professors, Frank (Pete) Adkins and W. 
Douglas Cooper also catalysed student 
concern. At an informational meeting
between students and Junior faculty 
members last spring, Cooper described 
conditions in the department that were 
making teaching difficult. Cooper intro
duced drawing as a design tool in the 
Freshman program. He is the recipient of a
grant from the Lilly Foundation.
Adkins was slated for review in the
Fall of 1979, however this date was pushed 
to the Fall of 1980 since he was on leave of 
absence during the 1979-80 academic year. 
He is not certain that a review actually 
took place. Fie was later informed that he 
would be reappointed, however no written 
agreement was drawn up. When Adkins 
returned, he found no formal agreement
regarding his reappointment. When the 
terms of his contract could not be agreed 
upon, Adkins submitted his resignation 
(dated April 28). This was to become effec
tive in one year. At that time, Adkins was 
informed by Sauer that his resignation was 
recognized immediately.
Adkins later received a letter from 
Edward Schatz, Vice - President for Aca
demic Affairs, stating that he would be 
paid full salary although he would not be 
expected to teach. Schatz sent this letter to 
avoid controversy surrounding the 
Adkins contract. Sauer had no comment 
on Schatzs letter. Adkins then filed a griecontinned on page 14
Print shop to be moved from 
Coal Research to Doherty
be used for the Robotics Institute.
The public relations office will be taken 
out of Baker Hall and placed in Coal
Research. In turn, these rooms will be util
ized by the Social Science department.
Other departments in Doherty that may 
be relocated include Chemical Engineer
ing, Metallurgy and Physics.
The funding for the space shuffle will 
come from University Captial funds. We 
hoped they (the moves) would be made in 
Februars or January of next year, but at the 
rate things are going itll be summer of 81
, f i i >> \r u pnoto dv Konert /.iisrnan
X ore anyt ing appens, an om Singer Ella Jenkins (L) performed in Skibo last Saturday during a program sponsored by the CM U child <
commented.care center
Margaret Morrison Storefronts
Construction to begin by December
by Lori Zuti and Alice Alfonsi
Warner Hall has proposed to move the 
printmaking shop from the Coal Research 
building to the C-level of Doherty Hall. 
This move was proposed in an effort to 
improve ventilation, provide more space, 
and to bring the art department closer 
together, according to Professor Orville 
Winsand, head of the Art Department.
Plans include separate studios for each 
branch of printmaking, two faculty stu
dios, a graduate studio, a photo studio, and 
a small shop, commented Winsand.
However, specific space allocations in 
Doherty Hall, including metallurgy 
rooms, have not yet been finalized by 
Warner Hall.
The space from metallurgy is still in 
question, said CMU architect Ron 
Pieruchise.
The Coal Research building will then 
become an administrative annex, 
ing to Richard Van Horn, Provost and 
Vice-President of CMU.
We want to take all administrative 
activities out of academic buildings, he 
added.
Thus follows the domino principle. 
The administrative systems group now 
located in Science Hall will be moved to 
the Coal Research Building. Van Horn 
said, the space freed up in Science Hall 
when administrative systems leaves will
photo by Roben Zusinan 
Andrew Young visits Pittsburgn (Story on page 4)
by Melody Mazzie
Last January, Auxiliary Services said 
that the Margaret Morrison store fronts 
would be ready for occupation by Sep
tember. Now that September is here, the 
store fronts remain vacant and will con
tinue to be until December.
Irene Daugherty, Director of Campus 
Stores, explained why progress on the 
store fronts has been delayed.
According to Daugherty, the architect 
in charge of the project, James Pedrone, 
gave the city zoning administrator a 
brief, sketc y plan for the fronts. The 
planning commission, to the surprise of 
those involved in the project, turned 
down the plans.
As a result, an appeal was made to the 
commission, whose involvement lies in 
the fact that Margaret Morrisoivis a city 
owned street. If they (the store fronts) 
had been built within the campus, 
stated Ms. Daugherty, there would be 
no problem. Pitt does not have this 
problem, she explained, because they 
are in a commercial zone.
After the appeal has been made, it 
takes two or three weeks to be put on the 
agenda. A hearing is scheduled for the 
end of October. If the plans are
approved at that time, the paper work 
will take another month to process, and 
then there will be bidding for the inte
rior construction. Construction should 
then begin on or around December 15.
We could not have gone through 
this procedure now on the initial 
attempt, claims Ms. Daugherty. Only 
after Pedrone submitted the plans to the 
commission and they were rejected 
could CMU make a formal appeal.
Oscar Mayer, Director of Auxiliary 
Services, Irene Daugherty, and Donal 
Pierucci, Director of Design, will meet 
this week with an attorney. At this 
point, they do not know why the zoning 
commission turned down the plans.
There are five spaces in the store 
fronts that can be filled. Last year prop
osals to fill the spaces were heavily dis
cussed by student groups.
Tentatively, one of the spaces will be 
a deli-annex somewhat like a 7-11 
and geared toward student needs. It will 
also sell such things as imprinted sweat 
shirts and beer mugs.
Another space will house additional 
laundry facilities for the campus com
munity with a possible attendant ser
vice for students who have things to do 
while their clothes are in the process of
being washed or dried.
The Forbes Street Gallery is sche
duled to move to a third space, and a 
nautilus exercise room will occupy the 
fourth space. A mini-mall containing 
the travel office, off-campus housing, 
and a catalogue ordering store will be 
housed in the fifth space. The plans for 
the mall are the most vague at this point 
since it has not yet been decided what 
will^o into it.
The City Planning Commission will 
consider each space as an individual 
entity. All five proposals wont fly at 
once, commented Daugherty. The 
committee will try to meet the imme
diate needs - the annex and laundry -- 
first.
There are no alternatives planned for 
the spaces if the commission rejects any 
of the proposals. Said Ms. Daugherty, 
Were doing what we want to do until 
were told otherwise. Then we'll find 
out what we can do. She blames petty 
politics for the hold up of 
cdn struct ion.
Non-CMU residents of the Margaret 
Morrison area should not be affected by 
the establishment of the stores and offi
ces, nor should the sororities located 
above the store fronts.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
CMU: The professional choice?
CMU students and faculty have become 
accustomed to curriculum changes and depart
mental overhauls without their consultation. 
We are used to the idea that the department 
which we began in as freshman may bear little 
resemblance to the department we graduate 
from as seniors. Consequendy, we all wonder 
whether our diplomas will represent the educa
tion weve actually experienced. It seems, 
though, weve learned to live with these 
thoughts while we still grumble about them.
But we cannot live with the idea that the 
administration of this university will not stop at 
breaching contracts and invading the privacy of 
its faculty. The past months events in the archi
tecture department clearly illustrate the fact that 
the administration will use any means to 
achieve their end in this case a dramatic 
reshaping of the undergraduate architecture 
program.
It is not difficult to understand that an aca
demic curriculum needs to be dynamic mov
ing with the current ideas of the discipline for 
which the department is training its students. It 
is clear to see that from time to time the depart
ment should examine its own policies and phil
osophies in order to maintain the highest 
possible standards. An institution of learning 
should be innovative; and change is a large part 
of innovation.
However, it is unthinkable that these changes 
should be disruptive and without regard to the 
students and faculty who are working within 
the existing program.
The disarray in the architecture department is 
leaving courses without professors and students 
who do not know from semester to semester 
what courses they should take to round out the 
architectural knowledge needed for future prac
tice. Both students and faculty are losing their 
focus on the philosophies of the department 
and, hence, both education and educating are 
suffering.
The shambles of the curriculum aside, we can
only wonder about the  sort of professional 
example the department is setting for its stu
dents. Are they advocating contract breaches 
and privacy invasions for the use of profession
als in the field of architecture? Are they acknowl
edging that these illegal and immoral methods 
are there for all to use when and if the opportun
ity arises? What are we to think if the university 
that is to be teaching us professional standards 
for our future lives doesnt practice these same 
standards in the administration of our 
education?
We cannot help but be confused by this blat
ant conflict of words and actions; but we must, 
like the architecture students, voice our objec
tions to these actions for in the long run it is our 
degrees and, hence, our acceptance into the pro
fessional world that are threatened.
The opinions expressed in this editorial repres
ent the views of The Tartan editorial board and 
are not intended to represent the views of any 
other bodies on campus.
Selecting a president
American political system has primary weakness
lliis election year is an exceptionally 
interesting one. We have the incompetent 
incumbent vs. the aging actor, while an 
indignant Independent fades into obscur
ity. Who knows, maybe Ed dark will be 
our next President.
Given this somewhat unfortunate polit
ical circus, many people are raising an 
interesting question: How can a nation so 
rich in political talent end up with Curly, 
Moe and Joe as candidates for president?
Bob 
Leighty
Many people blame our polidcal sys
tem. The primary season, created after the 
turbulent 1968 election, has been properly 
criticized as too long and too manipulated 
by the media. Even worse, primary results 
arent always popular by election time.
Lets look at these problems in greater 
detail:
Is the primary season too long?
This year the primaries ran from Iowa 
caucuses in January to Super Tuesday 
in June. And, as more and more Candida tes 
take advantage of the medias desire to 
cover all possible stories and announce 
political ambitions early, the entire-process 
seems longer than in previous years. Actu
ally it isnt longer, only its more in the 
public eye.
Is the political system manipulated 
'and/on misinterpreted by the media?
By analyzing candidates and performan
ces instantaneously as the media now does, 
new standards are set and new questions 
are posed. Narrow victories are losses, 
heavy losses are victories; one victory estab
lishes momentum, one loss destroys it. 
What happened to Big Mo? Why is Ted so 
popular when not running? The media is 
the answer.
Relying on reliable sources can lead to
interesting situations, such as the sensa
tional and eventually embarrassing report
ing of the possible ReaganFord ticket. 
Speculation often ends with a bang; a dra
matic media buildup may not be realistic.
Are primary results satisfactory?
Many people feel that none of the three 
major candidates have demonstrated presi
dential clbility or an understanding of 
Americas problems; Howard Baker, 
George Bush, Gerald Ford, Henry Jack
son, Walter Mondale, Patrick Moynihan 
and Edmund Muskie would all be super
ior presidents.
Primaries also doht seem to mesh very 
well with political conventions. For the 
Republican convention, primaries 
resulied in true (bound) delegates in some 
states. However, in other states (such as 
Pennsylvania) primaries were relatively 
meaningless popularity contests, selecting 
unknown and unbound delegates. For the 
Democratic convention, if Kennedy forces 
and/or the ABC (Anybody But Carter) for
ces had won an open convention, all 
Democratic primaries would have been 
virtually meaningless since the voting 
public cannot control unbound delegates.
The real problem with todays system is 
that it is no system-only increasingly inef
fective political patchwork. Party nomi
nees today are generally determined by the 
midseason primaries-oniy a handful of 
our fifty states are involved. The candi
dates today are not selected on leadership 
ability and the issues-only on their ability 
to impress the media (guaranteeing pub
licity) and avoid controversial statements 
through the primaries.
Thus, todays presidents are not neces
sarily skillful leaders--only good 
campaigners.
What is the answer? First, the media 
should stop creating stories and start 
reporting them. We need less analysis of 
opinion polls and more analysis of poli
cies, ideals and leadership ability. Second, 
the present political system should not be 
abolished, but a few changes could 
improve some problems.
Regional primaries for all interested 
states should be established. With regions 
divided according to time zones, a primary 
season lasting two or three months could
be legislated. Voters would select their cho
ices for candidates and unbound delegates. 
Beside the name of each delegate would be 
the name of the candidate he or she sup
ports, unless undecided,
Open conventions for both parties 
would be scheduled immediately follow
ing the primary season, preferably near 
Labor Day. From Labor Day to the 
November election, the traditional cam
paign would persist. Ideally, debates 
would precede the primaries and return 
during the fall campaign.
Under this system, v<5fers vaseld still see 
candidates campaign, but in a shorter 
primary season.
strate support for candidates and select 
delegates (knowing who the delegates ten
tatively support) for the conventions. The 
delegates, although strongly influenced by 
the recent popular vote and their tentative 
commitment, would be free to adapt to the 
unexpected and vote according to con
sciences. The convention nominees would 
then immediately enter the traditional fall 
campaign.
In addition to being shorter, this system 
has other benefits. It definitely allows the 
public to be heard, and gives the political 
parties.definite control over who they sup
port in the fall campaign. It stops the ridic
ulous system (in Pennsylvania and other 
states) where the public votes for delegates 
without knowing who they support.
Thus, the proposed system would sim
plify and standardize procedures while 
tying the whole election process together. 
It would strengthen our deteriorating pol
itical parties and finally put all primaries 
in the hands of the American people.
Bob Leighty is a Junior majoring in Tech
nical Writing and Editing and is Editorial 
Assistant for The Tartan.
Letters to the editor should be shoi f 
and to the point. If they are not, they 
will be edited. All letters to the editor 
should be submitted by Friday at noon 
if they are to be included in the follow
ing weeks issue of The Tartan.
The Tartan
Editor-in-Chief: Susan Borg 
Managing Editor: Doug Kirsop 
Business Manager: Karen Stevens
News Editor: Jim Balsom 
Features Editor: Renee Rosenfeld 
Entertainment Editor: Richard Gorclick 
Sports Editor: Wes Seeley
Production Manager: Smita Pai 
Dossier Editor: Lynn F.psiein 
Photography Editor: RoIxti Zusman 
Art Director: Craig Olto Tom YVeinkle
Associate News Editor: Jeanne Abtnayi 
Foreign Correspondent: K M Kulak 
Editorial Assistant: Bob Leighty
(:<>l>\ufilli ' I>S(t b\ The Tartan.  Ro  IIxtIiI tomI reset ws fRIt- RIbItI oovIttoRd ooI) puRIRuiIRIoo ;m\ <op\ IR 
IRIIots uoI IR oI pIRRIRI iIR om KtIIuRed Io pim R>\ RIte SItuImI (i<Iu mIRItIRI <>R C,1111<U<M<<M R'ooeIsIt\i 
PI 1 Is!>tII^RIi VmIsx R\iIoIiI Ri2Ri1i KIRIRoIIiIR ORRIus: SxIRx IRIi (112) >78-2111 01 2112i BusIoess ORRIIes: SxIRx* >2i 
( R2I i">78-21 i 21 RumI pIRooei < 112) i'7K-211i1i ARR rIgtIs reservedi
KeptItttsoR pRtrtoKIiIpRIs taxeo R)\ meIobeIs <>R The Tartan sIiIRI Io;I\ x put taseRI .11 RIte RoRRm\ Io tiIIes: 1 " \ 1 " 
7',< t i1ii y \ 7" S2i(M eaii 8" \ O" S*> <*> aii oteR esRed |x IsoIIs sImuRI) sRop R>\ IR Tartan oRRIIes duI Io*- busIoess 
RRouIs R'fItIteRI .11 R\|mxRiItR tuii I'smIIxI- PAi

---------------------------------------------------

September 30, 1980The TartanPage 3
Letters to the Editor
ture, but none-the-less blatantly obvious 
group of people responsible for such gems 
of wisdom as Big Q, Frodo Lives. 
Nuke the Skullhead, Nasal Sex, and 
the granddaddy of them all, Sev is a 
Load, that adorn our walls, bathrooms, 
windows and lecture halls. For their enter
tainment we pay thousands of dollars a 
year to replace equipment (like movie 
screens) and pay for labor and equipment 
to scrub bathroom walls, repaint and scrub 
walls and lecture halls.
Im sure everyone knows that an educa
tion and lifestyle at CMU are expensive 
enough, especially with tuition increases 
each year, but to have tuition raised even 
higher due to such unnecessary' causes is 
not just a shame, its a crime.
I am tired of having my money stolen 
from me and given to physical plant so 
they can do a job that never should have 
been needed in the first place. Arent you?
Name Withheld Upon Request
Gays and the Draft
Editor: -
I was reading a quesdon and answer 
sheet compiled by Attorney Wm. G. Smith 
on registration. The one section that really 
struck me as ironic dealt with gays and the 
draft.
Under present military regulations, 
states the article, a gay person cannot 
enter the armed forces...It remains to be 
seen what proof the Army is going to 
require. The article also points out that 
the ACLU is protesting against such a 
regulation.
I wish nobody-male or female-had to 
register or be drafted. At this point, the 
country is not at war, and there is no draft 
in effect, but the principles here are worth 
pondering.
If someone is gay, does that mean he 
cannot carry a gun? Does it mean he may 
corrupt all of the wholesome, heterosexual 
Is? It strikes me as funny that the U.S.- 
which broke its own law by using the 
Social Security System for registration 
means, thus violating the Privacy Actshould be offended by the morals of gays.
The presidents men
Reagan advisors will play an important role
Staff members and cabinet heads will 
play an unusually significant role in a 
Ronald Reagan administration. Through
out his eight year term as governor and 
even in his current election campaign,
Reagan has shown an extraordinary pro
pensity for delegating responsibility to 
political underlings. Unlike his Demo
cratic opponent, Reagan does not relish 
the hard details of administration.
Newsweek reports that as governor 
he ljiid down the philosophic line and 
made the hard decisions, then knocked 
off to an evening at home. John Sears,
Reagans ex-campaign chief, claims 
that as president Reagan would be 
absolutely the captive of his staff.
Even Tom Reed, a current campaign 
aide and Reagan loyalist admits,
unless you know who Ronald Rea
gans Cabinet chiefs will be, predicting 
the course of his presidency is like an 
enormous craps roll.
At the moment George Bush is the 
only Reagan official whose appointment is guaranteed. Despite what party 
hardliners would have you believe, the 
two men are politically comjaatible. 
Bushs positions on the salient issues 
are merely softer versions of Reagans, 
and their respective stances should be
Bill
Kapner
very similiar once Reagan adapts to the 
political realities of the office.
Although Bush will not be as power
ful a vice-president as Gerald Ford 
would be had his ludicrous demands 
been met, he will nonetheless be a major 
force in a Republican administration.
An unnamed staffer predicted before the 
convention that Reagans V.P. will 
probably maintain as much influence 
as the candidates Lieutenant Gover
nors displayed, which was considerable.
Like Carter, Reagan will bring a team 
of loyalists to the White House who 
worked for him as governor and have 
little Washington experience. The most 
influential of these is Edwin Meese. 
Meese was Reagans chief of staff in 
Sacramento, currently maintains that 
position on the election committee and 
will hold that job in a Reagan White 
House. National Journal reports that 
Meese, an outwardly pleasant and easy 
going San Diego attorney, persuaded 
Reagan to retain moderate Bill Brock as 
chairman of the Republican National 
Committee. He is also alleged to be 
responsible for alienating the staunchly 
conservative Paul Laxalt, Reagans 
campaign chairman, from the vicepresidential selection process at the con
vention. Meese, who was referred to as 
the governors governor while in
Sacramento, will likely be a moderate 
voice in a Reagan administration.
Lyn Nofziger will probably be Presi
dent Reagans press secretary. Rumpled 
and acid-tongued, Nofziger is a former 
political journalist from the old 
school. He is generally more popular 
among his former colleagues than 
todays generation of reporters. Many 
journalists are already bitter at Nofziger 
for stonewalling Reagans negotia
tions with Ford by repeated assertions 
that various candidates are being con
sidered, and we are not going about 
this process in an unusual way. As a 
former Washington correspondent, 
Nofziger would bring some needed 
Washington savvy to Reagans inner 
circle.
Bill Kapner is a senior in History 
and Professional Writing. This column 
is the first of a series on Ronald Rea
gans political associates. Next week 
Kapner will look at Reagans Foreign 
Policy and Economic advisors.
CoRRege Press ServIce
I TeLL VAROSMVNK, W& UP TD5^N.miE.M^0P SEND USTuptt IT pepfiueere>, eLV A ROV VSLMV LATNKKKKKKKKK
Dark and Dangerous Frats 
Editor:
Through the wizzardry of some aspiring 
architect, the newer fraternity buildings 
have little to no natural light within. The 
windows are strategically placed so that 
they face blank walls two feet away. There 
are no windows in the halls or stair wells!
Normally, thanks to the inventiveness of 
Thomas Alva Edison, natural light is 
unnecessary, but during the blackout last 
week, it became evident that unless one is 
superman, with extra-sensitive vision, it is 
impossible to maneuver within these 
buildings without some sort of back-up 
lighting. The risk of injury in the halls and 
stairwells during power outages (night 
and day) is great; but when has the univer
sity ever cared about safety? Take a look at 
Morewood Gardens.
Philip C. Nickerson, Jr.
Junior, Applied Math
I dont condone homosexuality, but I 
dont see what sexual preference has to do 
with political allegiance or ability to fight 
in war.
My real wonder is how the government 
would prove that an individual is or isnt 
gay. Id venture a guess that a lot of people 
would change their sex habits-or at least 
claim to-if it would get them out of mil
itary duty.
Emotional disturbances wont necessar
ily release a young man from serv ing his 
country, nor will the existence of a crimi
nal record if the offense was not serious. If 
hes gay, thats another story.
I wonder what will happen to guys in 
the army who are already gay. Will they 
boot them out or look the other way?
Whether gays are rejected or privileged, I 
dont know. Personally Id be relieved if I 
knew I had a legal reason to hold onto my 
life. The way this country runs, it seems 
only heterosexuals are allowed to die for 
the old red, white, and blue.
Melody Mazzie 
English 81
CMU Graffitti
Editor:
Isnt college life wonderful? Where else 
but a university can you experience so 
many aspects of life at once. There is, of 
course, the education we receive from pro
fessors, class experiences and from friends. 
From Particle Physics to the aesthetics of 
art, there are a whole range of lessons to be 
learned, and experiences to be had. There 
are fraternity parties, dorm parties, movies, 
dances, plays, concerts and a long list of 
sports and other extra-curricular activits.
These are all here for our enjoyment and 
personal enhancement, but they are not for 
free. For the benefit of these life-enriching 
experiences each and every one of us pays 
thousands of dollars a year! Unfortunately, 
we are forced to endure (detrimental) 
aspects of life that cost us additional dol
lars every year.
I am referring to that small and imma

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanSeptember 30, 1980
LONDON  MADRID 
STRASBOURG  FLORENCE
Ted Mondale makes campaign stop in Pittsburgh
Ted Mondale campaigned for the 
Carter-Mondale ticket in 1976. How is 
campaign 80 different? He replied, Four 
years ago the campaign emphasis was 
greatly affected by the general feeling of 
political distrust which followed Water
gate. In 1976 the Carter-Mondale team 
stressed the honesty of their candidates. 
The campaign of 1980 is not based on 
issues like nuclear power, unemployment, 
inflation, etc. During my travels most of 
the questions I have been asked have con
cerned the debates.
Mondale reiterated Carters primary 
objections. About the debates: We wanted 
the first debate to be a one-on-one situation 
with Reagan, and, An incumbent has 
never before confronted an independent 
candidate.
Presidential campaigning involves 
meeting groups and organizations and 
answering their questions. Mondale is 
enjoying his current leisurely schedule 
of 60 hour weeks; the last two weeks of 
campaigning he works 16 hours a day, 
seven days a week. Carter-Mondale repre
sentatives will be concentrating on Pen
nsylvania, Texas, Ohio, and Illinois, the 
big four for the next five weeks, says Mon
dale.
Campaign 80Andrew Young encourages Carter
by Bob Leighty
On the campaign trail in Pittsburgh last 
week, former U.N. Ambassador Andrew 
Young said Pennsylvania may decide 
Americas political future for the next 
four years and the remainder of the 
century.
At the request of the Carter-Mondale 
campaign, Young scheduled a press con
ference attended by numerous Pittsburgh 
dvic leaders and local media at the Wil
liam Penn Hotel. Young keyed his speech 
on the importance of voting, especially for 
minorities.
It is important that we vote and vote in 
larger numbers than ever before, Young 
said to an enthusiastic crowd. He said that 
if were poor as a people, we're not sufficiendy represented when (tax) money is 
divided up.
The former ambassador feels that Presi
dent Carter has given minorities and the 
poor major opportunities to share in 
government decision making and division 
of wealth. I have yet to be in a city where 
the mayor has said that this administration
hasnt responded to their needs, Young 
said.
Young emphasized the difference 
between President Carter and Republican 
challenger Ronald Reagan. Young said 
we now have a comprehensive urban pro
gram something he doesnt foresee in a 
Reagan administration.
The President says he (Reagan) is a 
racist; Ill leave that to the President. I have 
no opinion on that, Young said while 
laughing with the crowd. Republicans in 
general arent responsive to the needs of the 
people, according to Young, although he 
did cite a few exceptions in Pennsylvania.
Young also discussed the candidacy of 
Independent John Anderson, saying with 
his record in Congress he is not deserving 
support of liberal people. According to 
Young, Anderson has voted against basic 
education grants, consumer protection, 
food stamps, medicare and medicaid. 
Anderson was cited by Young as having 
no blacks on his congressional staff. With 
liberal ratings at about 29/100, Young feels 
Anderson is insensitive to our needs. 
Concerning the escalating military con
frontation between Iraq and Iran, Young 
feels this is a time when doing nothing is 
wise. He dted the need to work behind 
the scenes with the U.N., Arab League and 
the Soviet Union. Everybodys security is 
endangered by this flare-up, he said.
Young expressed his hope that this for
eign policy development may help Amer
icans realize there are no simple solutions 
in todays world. He linked proposed 
simple solutions to Reagan and a full 
range of Republicans.
Last Friday at about 3 PM a small fire 
broke out in the Civil Engineering Lab in 
the basement of Porter Hall.
Scott Miller, a senior Civ E. reported 
that the fire started when sparks from weld
ing he was doing near an old flume got 
under the metal gratinig and ignited a 
straw-like filter.
The flume, which was used to simulate 
river flow, had not been used in many years
support
When asked about the new moral 
majority, Young said that religious con
cerns should be expressed in politics, 
although he called the moral majority a 
media phenomenon.
The conference ended with Young stat
ing he had no spedfic personal plans for 
after the November election, adding that 
his plans are dictated by the troubles of 
the day. He did restate his support for 
President Carter, who Young called the 
tightest thing Ive seen going.
and was in the process of being dismanded 
as part of a renovation and relocation pro
ject taking place in Baker/Porter Halls.
The straw filter was the only one of its 
kind left in the flume.
Miller stated that welding does not nor
mally take place near the flume, but 
because of the Civ E. departments picnic 
this past weekend, the normal area for 
welding was used as a storage area for pic
nic equipment.
Spark sets fire in Civ E lab
jtfnactt&e, titUven&Uif
Address
City-----
. * Variety of
 courses offered *
| No language background 
I required * Financial aid 
. available * Summer programs
 available in Italy, Great Britain & East Africa.
I Name
I
Sute.
I Program of Interest_________________________________________________________________ J
 For more information and application, return to Michael Calo, Division of J 
1 International Programs Abroad, 335 Comstock Ave., Syracuse, New York, I 
I 13210, tel.(315) 423-3471.__________________________________________________________j
Play With The 
CMU ORCHESTRAS
CMU PHILHARMONIC 
CMU CHAMBER ORCHESTRA 
CMU SYMPHONIC WIND 
ENSEMBLE
Information and Placement AuditionsMusic Office 
FA 105 ext. 2372
photo by Jim Balsom
Tartan reporter Jennifer Hutton and Ted Mondale in the Pkt Student Union last Saturday afternoon
by Jennifer Hutton
Vice President Mondales son, Ted was 
in Pittsburgh Saturday to do some oldfashioned politicking. Although Presiden
tial campaigning is hard work, It sure 
beats studying for exams, he said. Mon
dale particularly stressed the importance of 
voter registration to his cause: If we can 
get our voters registered, the CarterMondale team can win in Pennsylvania. 
Young Mondale, a Junior Political 
Sdence major from the University of Min
nesota, also addressed draft registration. 
He said he supported the Carter plan; but 
when asked about what actions are being 
taken to locate the unregistered 18 to 20 
year olds, Mondale frankly stated: "I dont 
know.
Regarding women in the draft, Mondale 
thinks they should be barred from military 
combat, but he said, I believe it is a politi
cal slap in the face for women if they are 
excluded from the draft.
Unfortunately, Mondale had no news 
concerning the future of student financial 
aid and grant programs. Although as he 
said the Carter camp is pushing for a rein
statement of the funds, the Senate and 
Congress are currently voting down the 
legislation._______________________________

---------------------------------------------------

September 30, 1980The TartanPage 5
WRCT begins broadcasting 
in 10 watts of stereo power
by Alice Alfonsi
Last Wednesday, September 24, WRCT, 
the CMU radio station, was forced off the 
air because of transmitter failure. The 
result was some 17 hours of silence at 
88.3FM.
Chief operator Stu Meyer said the prob
lem was essentially a worn circuit. This is a 
common problem, but this time it hap
pened in a critical place, said Meyer. To 
prevent this from happening again, the 
transmitter will be checked occasionally.
WRCT is now beginning to broadcast 
in stereo. The staff has been awaiting this 
move for some time; but this year they were 
able to borrow a stereo generator from 
radio station WDUQ.
According to Meyer and Steve Kaine, 
general manager, WRCT will be getting 
its own stereo generator sometime in early 
November. This new generator and audio 
processor is called an Optimod. It is one of 
the first of its kind, and the Optimod will 
greatly improve WRCTs sound quality.
This year WRCT has installed approxi
mately $10,000 worth of new studio equip
ment, and will add $1,500 worth of new 
records to its record library. According to
U
photo by Robert Zusman
Kathy Krummert holds the HirSS cake at last 
Fridays picnic by Baker Hall___________________CARINGforPEOPLE
@Thafe United Way
Kaine, WRCT is (one of) the largest 
organizations on campus, with over 100 
members.
At present WRCT broadcasts for 21 
hours, from 6AM3AM. Kaine hopes to 
broadcast for 24 hours a day as soon as the 
3-6AM disc jockey spot is filled.
WRCT is 10 watts in power. This is very 
small when compared with a station like 
WQED which broadcasts at 43,000 watts.
WRCT wants to increase power to 100 
watts stereo, which would permit them to 
be heard all over the city, but there are 
many obstacles to overcome. The FCC is 
presently considering their application.
photo by Robert Zusman 
Dr. Julius Ashkin (L) receives the MCS Award for meritorious teaching from Dean Berg.
Security EscortService to prevent attacks and injuries
by Reed Vickerman
As CMUs student escort service enters 
its second year, there have been suggestions 
that the service could be more responsive to 
the needs of the students. Yet on closer 
examination it is hard to imagine how the 
campus police could be expected to do any 
more than it has already done with the re
sources it has available
Manned soley by students and equipped 
with a single van, the escort service, and its
14 part-time employees, are responsible for 
the pick-up and delivery of students and 
faculty between the academic and residen
tial buildings on campus. It does this 
while also driving students to their off 
campus apartments or homes, within a 
reasonable distance.
Though boundaries for the service have 
been drawn to only include that area 
within a 1 mile radius of the main part of 
campus, the sr>ice repeatedly goes out of 
its way to help many of the more than 50 
students it serves each evening.
The service, whose hours extend from 
6PM to 2:30AM, appears to be an efficendy 
run operation that, according to the log 
sheets compiled during each shift, must be 
described as prompt.
Yet despite this, its director, Mr. West
brooks, still stresses that students must be 
patient, especially as the bad weather 
approaches and the number of riders 
increases. As for those students who 
should find themselves outside the servi
ce's district and either without enough 
money or the directions to return, Lt. Castelli urges them to call the campus police 
who can then arrange to have them picked 
up and returned by the Peoples Cab Co., 
who through prior arrangement with the 
campus security, will return anyone no 
matter what his finances are.
TARTAN NEWS STAFF
Meets every Monday at 8:00 PM 
Room 50, Skibo
Current staff and interested writers 
are encouraged to attend
In addition to the escort service, the cam
pus police are also proud of the many
other steps that have been taken to increase 
the safety of those traveling through cam
pus after dark. One obvious step taken this 
year was the addition of many new and 
costly lights that now illuminate more of 
the walks than ever before. Yet the police 
still insist that the majority of the responsi
bility for the safely of individuals remains 
with the individual, for only he or she can 
make those judgements that can prevent a 
problem.
The escort service, which shares its office 
with the police in Baker Hall, predicts that 
at the present rate of growth their 7 day a
week services ridership will likely peak at
350 a week or at well over 1200 riders a 
month.
With these numbers in mind it is impor
tant to remember what Westbrooks des
cribes as the services original goal. The 
service was started here to escort students 
and faculty between buildings, yet at the 
same time we have tried not to neglect 
those who must travel further, even to out
side the campus. But the important thing 
is to prevent any injuries or attacks for as 
many people as is possible, especially here 
on campus. If just one incident can be 
averted then the whole program will have 
been worth it.
PAT bus fare jumps 
from 60 to 75 cents
i ot snibirmp 
by Reed Vickerman
The governing 'board for the Port 
Authority of Allegheny County, on Sep
tember 14, unanimously approved the 
second hike in local transit fares in a year. 
The new 15-cent increase in the base fare 
not only raises the price of a ride on a 
Pittsburgh bus to 75 cents, but also makes 
that ride among the most expensive in the 
country.
In addition to the base fare increase, the 
board also approved a 150 percent jump in 
the price of transfers, pushing them from a 
dime to 25 cents. The combination of these 
actions makes the price of a ride, within 
the central zone and requiring a transfer, 
$1.
These increases, which will take effect 
on the second of November, will also pro
portionally raise the rates for streetcars, the 
incline, the PAT Train and rides originat
ing in one of the many outer zones. These 
charges, for trips beginning in the outer 
zones, will now cost as much as $2.65, one 
way, for people traveling from such areas 
as Vandergrift or Apollo.
For those who commute to work or 
school on a daily basis, the increase will 
also appear in new prices for passes and 
permits. The annual pass will jump to 
$280, up $55 from last year. The monthly 
student permits will go from $16 to $20, 
while the fate of the popular U-pass is still 
undecided.
With these new increases PAT will be 
able to collect nearly 50 percent of its 
annual $113 million budget from its riders, 
while still relying on various state and fed
eral subsidies for the remainder. PAT 
ended last year in the red with a debt of 
nearly $3.9 million.
A Philip Pelusi Haircut 
for $6.00!!
Register for hair cutting classes. 
Call 261-6550 or stop by our 
salon in 
Squirrel Hill, The Bank Center
PHILIP WIENER
SELF COR ECTING 
SELF CO RECTING 
SELF C RRECTING 
SELF CORRECTING 
$185.00 to $279.00 
ALL SILVER REED MODELS 
CORRECT SIMILAR TO IBM.
683-0313
229 ATWOOD ST., OAKLAND

---------------------------------------------------

Pan-African Festival
RETURN TO THE SOURCE: 
A CULTURAL AWAKENING. 
SATURDAY OCT. 4
1.00 FESTIVAL OPENING
2:00 BOB BROWN
Speaker
3:00 YORUBA TEMPLE
DANCERS AND DRUMMERS 
Traditional African Music and Dance
6:00 PITTSBURGH BLACK
THEATRE DANCE ENSEMBLE
7:00 RASTAFARI
REGGAE FROM THE ISLANDS 
SUNDAY OCT.5
2:00 MORGAN STATE GOSPEL CHOIR 
..Outstanding Gospel Group
4:00 POETRY FORUM: ^
AMIR RASHEED
THE THREE SHADES OF MIND
5:00 THE SOUNDS OF TOGETHERNESS
Straight Ahead Jazz
SPONSORED BY SPIRIT 
Co-sponsored by AB 
Funded by Senate
FREE ON "THE CUT" 
In Case of Rain: Skibo Ballroom

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Student interns in Ireland
PETER JOYCE
by Kathy McGinley
Did you ever think that participation in 
an ac vity at CMU could win you not only 
a tr* to Europe but a job there related to 
you field of study? For Peter Joyce, a 
Ses ior in AMS, membership and involve
ment with the CMU chapter of AIESEC 
(International Association of Students in 
Economics and Business Management) 
got him just that. Peter, who has a position 
on AIESEC CMUs Excecutive Board as 
International Coordinator, received a traineeship through AIESEC in Dublin, Ire
land working for Aer Lingus on a special 
project examining pricing procedures 
used in the airline industry.
Peter was one of fifteen AIESEC CMU 
members to go an AIESEC traineeship in 
such countries as Japan, Sweden, France 
and Turkey.
Ireland was the country Peter was most 
interested in for a traineeship: He admits 
that I was very lucky to get a job where I 
wanted to go. I was also fortunate because 
my plane fare to and from Ireland was free 
since I was working for Aer Lingus. In 
addition, Peter took a flight to Paris com
pliments of Aer Lingus at the end of the 
summer.
Peter lived at Trinity College in Dublin 
with a group of 25 AIESEC trainees from 
chapters in many different countries. My 
roommate was from Sweden and had a 
traineeship with Guiness Breweries. One 
of my closest friends was from Poland, and 
there were several other interns from com
munist nations. Peter adds that the AIE
SEC chapter in Ireland was really helpful; 
the reception committee found all the trai
nees places to live and put on some very 
good parties and get-togethers for us.
In addition to becoming good friends 
with other AIESEC trainees, Peter made 
many friends at Aer Lingus. Alot of the
Photo by Dave Walker
people I worked with were close to my age 
and we often went out together to the pubs. 
I learned very early in my stay that pubs are 
a cornerstone of the Irish society. When 
people get^^ptji^r, its nearly always at 
the pubs.
Perhaps because he spent alot of time in 
a cornerstone of Irish society, Peter grew 
to enjoy the Irish way of living. He says, 
People in Ireland arent nearly as compet
itive or as materialistic as in the United 
States. They get real satisfaction from their 
leisure time. The Irish standard of living is 
not as high, but it isnt that much different 
in my eyes than in the U.S.
Peter adds that one important quality 
necessary to enjoy Ireland is patience. If 
youre in a hurry, youll get frustrated eas
ily. Everything moves more slowly.
Its also very safe there; the policeman 
dont even carry guns, Peter mentions. 
The Republic of Ireland (where Peter 
stayed) and Northern Ireland are two 
separate countries. Peter went into the 
North only once, but found it much more 
tense than the Republic. He adds that I 
saw a lot of British Army soldiers in the 
North, whose presence didnt help reduce 
the unrest felt there.
The country is beautiful, Peter says, 
but if you ever go to Ireland, take an 
umbrella. It stays very green because of the 
large amount of rain.
Peters experience with AIESEC in Ire
land this year was so worthwhile he can 
say without a moment of hesitation that 
Im definitely going to try for another trai
neeship next summer, hopefully in Eng
land or France. After that Id like to stop in 
Ireland and look for a full-time job. 
AIESEC membership is open to the cam
pus community. If you are interested in 
getting involved, come meet with us Wed
nesdays at 4:30 in Skibo 11.
What is GATF?
by Lynne Koupal
How many times have you walked 
down Forbes Avenue on your way to get a 
pizza or have a beer and passed that con
temporary building with all the steps and 
the letters GATF out front and wondered 
what is inside?
Well, for one thing there are CMU stu
dents working inside. GATF, Graphic 
Arts Technical Foundation, through the 
work-study program at CMU, employs 
approximately two dozen students in a var
iety of jobs.
The GATF design department employs 
six design, art, and illustration students, 
while the publications department 
employs nine creative, professional, and 
technical writing majors making up the 
bulk of the student employees. Students 
are also found in the production depart
ment and doing research.
GATF is an important pan of my edu
cational experience at CMU, says Jane 
Dudley, a senior graphic design major. 
Its the one chance for me to work as a 
professional while Im still a student. The 
friendly people and the low-key atmos
phere at GATF acts like a buffer zone 
between the real world and college life.
Jane has worked for two years including 
full-time during the summer under Kim 
Kraeuter, a 1978 CMU design graduate 
who heads the design department in the 
Educational division. I worked here as a 
student and found it really helpful. The 
work-study program is very successful and 
is increasing each semester, says Kim.
Kelly Cotton, a senior technical writer, 
works under Donna Mulvihill, a GATF 
technical writer, and Raymond Blair, Pub
lications Editor.
I want to get into advertising and work
ing here exposes me to many techniques 
Ill need to know in the field: papers and 
inks, printing processes, explains Kelly. 
Im learning the skills and the vocabulary 
Ill need to write or design my own 
brochure.
But what exactly is GATF?
The Graphic Aft^^e^hrucaJ Founda
tion is a member supported, non-profit 
organization for students, teachers, and 
workers in the graphic arts and the print
ing industry, explains Tom Clifton, 
GATFs Membership Marketing Man
ager. The three major divisions of the 
foundation, Education, Research, and 
Technical Services, are all available to and 
used by members.
The Educational division provides pro
grams to continually update information 
for members. They produce textbooks, 
audio visuals, and learning aides in addi
tion to conducting workshops here in 
Pittsburgh and seminars all over the 
world.
The GATF membership includes 1737 
corporation members and 1100 educa
tional members all over the United States 
and in 350 countries in the free world,
explains Clifton.
The Research division tries to keep 
ahead of pace in the technical aspects of the 
printing industry. Just this year, a non
toxic substitute for alcohol was developed 
for offset lithography, a water/alcohol and 
ink printing process. The product took 
three years of testing and developing and 
was then liscensed to a private company 
for marketing.
The technical Services division employs 
eight to ten technical consultants who 
travel to some 130 member companies 
each year to conduct technical plant aud
its. These consultants visit printing plants, 
critique the procedures and operating tech
niques, and then make recommendations 
to increase productivity and profitability.
A Technical Inquiry Desk is manned by 
consultants handling approximately 2500 
calls each year from members with prob
lems or questions that usually can be ans
wered on the phone or by mail.
Are you wondering why GATF is 
located in Pittsburgh? GATF was estab
lished in 1924 under the name Lithogra
phic Technical Foundation, LTF, by a 
group of printers from Chicago to study 
problems, in their industry.
A couple of major problems prompted 
them to organize. By the next year, the 
group had grown so much that an Educa
tional Headquarters was established in 
New York City, offering classes and semin
ars in conjunction with City College of 
New York.
LTF soon coallesced into the member 
supported organization it is today. The 
name was changed in 1963 and a search 
began for a new technical center which 
would bring the education division, the 
research facilities, and the offices together 
under one roof.
GATF was drawn to Pittsburgh in 1965 
mainly because of the printing manage
ment program offered at Carnegie Tech, 
one of only a handful in the country. 
GATF was also attracted by Mellon Insti
tute and its diverse wealth of equipment 
for research but it has rarely been used in 
the 15 years.
As a senior in AMS, Graphic Communi
cations Management, and Professional 
Writing, GATF has reinforced much of 
what Kathy McGinley has learned at 
CMU. I really knew I was headed toward 
writing before I started working at GATF 
but it has given me experience in copyediting and proofreading, and even a few 
things I have written will be published. 
Our supervisors are very helpful and try to 
look out for us, trying to help us do things 
were really interested in, says Kathy.
The Graphic Arts Technical Founda
tion is very important to the printing 
industry and to the entire field of graphic 
arts. It also has greater significance than 
just another building on Forbes to many 
CMU students.
GATF

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanSeptember 30, 1980
Yes, there is a punk scene in Portland!
by Bob Brenner
Portland was especially apocalyptic in 
those days. Volcanic ash from the first 
eruption of Mt. St. Helens had drifted over 
the city, turning the streets and buildings a 
dull, pumiceous gray. Trucks and autom 
biles would raise a thick cloud of dust as 
they crawled by at the emergency fifteen 
mile an hour speed limit. When people 
ventured outside, which was rare, they 
wore surgical masks over their faces. The 
whole town looked like a DEVO shortsubject film brought to life.
Roughly three hundred thousand peole 
live in Portland. The city is divided 
between the east and west by the Williamette River, and between the north and 
south by Burnside Avenue. In the northw
est quarter are auto repair shops, industrial 
warehouses, and the Weinhart brewery; 
because of the latter, the air stinks of stale 
beer.
The Long Goodbye Club, at 300 NW 
10th Avenue, is the site of frequent punk 
activity. A typical night occurred late in 
June: Two bands, The Rats and The SubHumans, were on the evenings bill. (The 
Rats are something of local celebrities 
because theyve actually recorded an 
album.) In the audience were leather-andchains motorcycle jocks and B-52 dressalike doppelgangers. Both groups blasted 
away in the approved Sex Pistols tommygun manner. Slam dancing was de riguer: 
tables, chairs, and bodies went flyyyying. A 
good time was had by all.
Pordand has a new bus system. There 
are shiny steel-and-glass passenger kiosks, 
video display, and computerized schedul
ing. Pordand has a new look. There are 
imitation cobble-stone sidewalks, numer
ous fountains, parks, and statuary, and a 
neo-classical courthouse.
On the west side of the city, near Water
front Park, straddling Burnside Avenue, is 
Old Town. This part of the dty has not 
been renovated. A staggering number of 
derelicts congregate here; there are literally 
hundreds compressed within a few square 
blocks. They sleepor lie unconscious 
on the sidewalks, and beg for quarters 
when theyre awake. Many native Ameri
cans fallen into squalor. At night, a yellow 
police van drives around Portland, collects 
the hulks that have strayed, and returns 
them to their reservations.
Punks in Portland, as elsewhere, are pol
itically active. At an anti-draft registration 
rally in Waterfront Park, around midJuly, Susan the Punk and her un
identified back-up band took the stage. 
Almost at once, a technical problem
Computer Science 
and Electrical Engineering 
Majors
San Francisco Bay Area company developing state of 
the art computer software and hardware for integrated 
voice and data office communications systems seeks 
talented individuals interested in:
SOFTWARE
 Operating Systems
 Real Time Distributed Computing
 Data Communications
 Office Automation Applications
 Office of the Future Applications
 Diagnostics
 Software Tools
HARDWARE
 Microprocessor Applications
 Digital and Analog Design
 Telephony
 Data Communications
ROLM Corporation, founded in 1969 has grown 
50%-100% each year and currently has 3700 
employees. ROLMs Telecommunications 
Division is the leading independent supplier of 
computer controlled voice and data business 
communications systems.
Included in ROLMs outstanding benefits 
package is a three month paid sabbatical after 
six years (and every seven years thereafter), 
company paid tuition and time off for graduate 
study at Stanford University. Employees can take 
advantage of flexible working hours to use 
ROLMs million dollar recreational facility which 
includes tennis courts, racquetball courts, 
basketball, exercise room, volleyball, swimming 
pools, par course, sauna, steam room and 
jacuzzi.
On Campus Interviews 
Monday, October 27
Meet with working software and hardware engineers 
from ROLM in the Placement Center See our Company 
literature in the Placement Center
If unable to attend an 
interview, send resume to:
Gibson Anderson
Manager. Recruiting ft Training
ROLM Corporation
4900 Old Ironsides Drive M/S 560
Santa Clara, CA 95050
We arc an qual opportunity/affirmative action employer
lHHI
CORPORATION
became apparent: city law does not allow 
electric instruments at a political rally.
Seafood Mama can have electric gui
tars and shit, Susan complained over the 
PA system, but you wont hear our gui
tars, synthesizers, or rhythm generators. 
Seafood Mama is a local pop group whose 
Rpnstadt-tainted single, Harden My 
Heart, was played with sickening fre
quency on most regional radio stations 
that summer; just the week before Seafood 
Mama had delivered a free concert in the 
same park without hassles. Susan and her 
band made a valiant attempt, but without 
most of their instruments, they were severly hampered. The audience applauded 
anyway, because they liked the groups 
attitude.
The Pacific Academy, located at 1532 
SW Morrison, is one of those small, public 
colleges where one can learn refrigerator 
repair and bartending. In the basement is a 
childrens day school which is also rented 
out for civic events; punk concerts are regu
larly held here because the price is right. 
Late in July, five bandsSmegma, The 
Stiphnoids, The Dots, The Briefcases, and 
Sado-Nationwere scheduled to appear 
in something like a punk jamboree. As 
with the niajority of such happenings, the 
most interesting material is not the music 
itself, but the interactions of the partici
pants. Following Smegmas set, Chris, the 
bands lead singer, launched into a tirade 
against his audience: The one thing Por
dand doesnt have is an intelligent punk 
scene! Then he proceeded to berate two 
groupies for another punk band, The 
Cleavers. Chris discussed the groupies sex
ual life-styles in detail, and with great elo
quence. One of the groupies reminded 
him that he had been punched through a 
window the week before at a bar in a similar dispute, and such a fate could be 
arranged again, if necessary. Undaunted, 
Chris went on to delineate the groupies 
favorite animals, and why.
There are alot of religious fundamental
ists in Portland. Neon signs advertise the 
coming of Christ Our Lord. Stickers such 
as the following appear on street lamps: 
WARNING TO ALL Queers Lesbiens 
Pot Smokers Pill Poppers Fornicators 
Drunkards Adulterers Abortionists 
Theives Liars and Mormons GODS 
JUDGEMENT IS COMING. Of course, 
the fundamentalists have to compete for 
space with posters advertising bands like 
The Wipers, The Neoboys, Lotek, and 
The Bop Zombies.
As circularity would have it, DEVO 
actually did come to town at the end of 
summer to promote their latest album, 
Freedom of Choice. The line at the Para
mount'Theater on SW Fifth Avenue 
stretched around the comer, down the 
block, and across a nearby park. The Boys 
from Akron, Ohio, Rubber Capitol of the 
World, did their mechanized society 
schtick, and after three records the joke 
may be beginning to wear a litde thin, but 
at least the music was loud. Once again, 
the people were the most interesting part 
of the show. Some local talent clambered 
on stage before security could snag her, 
and began to boogey and shimmy in front 
of the band. The lead singer for DEVO 
tolerated this rude upstaging for just about 
a minute, then crept up on the interloper 
and gaver her the ol heave-ho over the 
edge. She landed with a loud thud, like a 
sack of rotten potatoes. Her demise was 
applaudedno one likes a show off.
They tell me that Pordands really a jazz 
city, and next summer Im gonna go back 
and check out that scene.
FOR THOSE ONCEJN-A-UFET1ME SNAPSHOTS
V----------------naar1
MAKE SURE YOUR FILM IS IN THE RIGHT HANDS
At ASA  Photo we take great pride in the quality of our work. 
ASA Photo is the only photo processor in Pittsburgh that 
allows you to watch your own film being developed. So, whether 
youre a professional 35 MM photographer or a weekend snapper, 
ASA  Photos the place for you.
 Same day service on 
ektachrome film
 Fast, fast service on 
all other films.
 Glossy prints at no 
extra charge at all 
110,126,135 film.
 Instant color 
passports photos.
: 8&*'fa :flece ol( 
* ^es^ rp 
  V P  *003* **. oM 0* A  <we<V > eWP /. 
. ..................................
AfitfPHOIO3527 FORBES AVENUE 
681-1720

---------------------------------------------------

September 30, 1980The TartanPage 9
Pittsburgh Glossary American Mensa
A Pittsburgh Glossary for those who 
think they have mastered CMU... by a 
local whos been laughed at once too 
often.
Behrz: (pronounced beh-rz) Beers, ex: 
Younz wanna go drin ksum behrz? (see: 
younz)
Daun: (daun) Down, (see also: taun) 
Hause: (hau-wse) Place of residence. 
Irunddy: Picksburghs favorit behr. 
Needs: (neds) Verb used in other parts of 
the country prior to to be, ex: the car 
needs warshed; the room needs redd up. 
(see: warsh, redd up)
Picksburgh: (picks-berg) Younz goes ta 
school here, remember? (see: younz) 
Pram: (pram) Pram is an event held annu
ally in spring. Usually precedes a rash of 
weddings.
Redd up: (redup) Pa. Dutch term, to clean 
up, i.e., a room, the hause. (see: hause) 
Snllmil: (stil-mil) Steelmill. There are lots 
of them here. None near campus. Younzll 
have ta go look forem.
Warsh: (warsh) Wash, i.e. clothes; car 
needs warshed; warsh your handsomeface. 
Younz: (yun-ns) You, plural. A common 
misspelling: youns.
Items of special interest:
Penguins: A Pittsburgh hockey team not 
many people talk about.
Pirits: A baseball team many people talk 
about.
Sullirs: Grab a 6 of Iruncidy and go find a 
TV.
Editors Note: Some terms still foreign? 
Drop us a line... our experts will be happy 
to assist younz.
by Monica J. Cellio
American Mensa will celebrate its 
20th anniversary this year. An interna
tional organization which promotes 
intelligence, Mensa includes people of 
all backgrounds. The American chapter 
has over 40,000 members and is growing 
rapidly.
The only requirement to join Mensa 
is an I.Q. in the top two percent of the 
general population. This is approxi
mately 132 on most I.Q. tests or an SAT 
score of 1300. A prospective member 
may elect to submit siith evidence or 
take a test administered by Mensa. The 
group has received mtich publicity 
lately through articles in magazines 
such as Readers Digest and Omni. 
These articles usually include sample 
tests.
In addition to 120 local groups -- the 
main means of contact for most 
members  and about 240 special inter
est groups, Mensa provides special ser
vices such as Young Mensa, a growing 
segment of the group for members 
under 25.
The Western Pennsylvania chapter 
provides a wide range of activities, from 
picnics and camping trips to philoso
phical discussion groups to the tradi
tional last Saturday parties, one of 
the most attended events. Prospective 
members are invited to attend activities 
and meet the members. The group has 
activities for all ages and all interests.
In addition to local activities, 
regional and national gatherings are 
held frequently. International gather
ings are also held often.
Y So IV SO*e K'wvd 0 t\ \ynouste? No V>^,T.UV)Wv d__, <x d;Kr**'V y______________rocV\ f-------
yiv/-uvAfc J/l?. AllwWW \joor Ve^r* W*wA' "You 'ftver y<v Ceold be.... ^C? 
jlVe/l
~7 abo<A 
/we b-tHe nore 
ORGANIZED? I
I jwsv -feel \So Slcp'jly
j gfr -V ijj thrt* VVva+'s <\\jj|T
COLLEGE RULEDmr I5IAWE ^THowos
,Y /yy/<  /UU.-M
ff LeVs - a ce it, y
jv/V*- y*o PiwtSSo. A
EXPERIENCE
THE WORLD AS YOUR CAMPUS
Sail around the world from Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, February 5, 
1981 to South America, Africa, South Asia and the Orient. 
Apply now.
Earn a fall semester of credit. Sponsored by the University of 
Pittsburgh. Offered as an outreach program by the Institute for 
Shipboard Education/University Center for International 
Studies. Participation open to qualified students from all accred
ited colleges and universities. Semester at Sea admits students 
without regard to color, race or creed.
More than 60 university courses - with in-port and voyage-related 
emphasis. Faculty from the University of Pittsburgh and other leading 
institutions. Visiting area experts.
For free color brochure, call or write: Semester at Sea/U C. I S , Forbes (Quadrangle, University 
of Pittsburgh, PA 15260. Telephone toU free (800) 884-0X08 (except California); 
(418) 684-8081 (Pittsburgh); (714) 881-8770 (California).The S S Universe is ftilly 
air conditioned. 18,000 tons, registered in Liberia and built in America
Whatever look is your look...
You'll look better with a 
GreatXprecision haircut!
Whatever look is you - you'll look better with a 
Great "X" Precision haircut. Great X's method 
of precision cutting means we cut and shape 
your hair from the inside out" so it looks 
better longer. Great X also specializes in perms, 
coloring, frosting and conditioning all at reason
able prices. Come into Great "X" today and 
see how much better you'll look tomorrow.
HAIRCUTS
(Wash-Cut-Blow)ll00
Mon.Tue*. Wed. 10-7 
Thurs. Fri. 10-9
Sat. 9-6
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS 
COLORING
237 Atwood Stroot 
Across tho stroot from 
Oakland Post Offlco 
687*3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMANENTS
2500
No Appointments

---------------------------------------------------

' 'V#rv, 'jxtf '
bcUf at /prriJUXTrwJHaMl/!W (
C-MU HomecomingMemorable Moments 
October 17-18-19,1980
You bet Im interested in Homecoming this year ! 
Sign me up for a committee:
FLOAT COMMITTEE PARADE / PEP RALLY COMMITTEE GAMES COMMITTEE
*MR. & MISS VARSI1 i COMMITTEE
My name is._____:________ address________________
phone**_______ * ________________
PLEASE RETURN THIS SLIP TO THE ALUMNI OFFICE, 5th FLOOR, WARNER HALL - SOON. 
PICK UP COMPLETE RULES & ENTRY INFORMATION FOR THESE COMPETITIONS AT THE 
ALUMNI OFFICE.
*

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
Curtaincall
The Runner Stumbles Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre
The Runner Stumbles opens the X<Adr The worlds of Danish choreographer,
Repertory Theaters second season. The August Bournville, will open the Pittsproduction begins this Thursday night burgh Ballet Theatres 1980-81 season,
and runs through October 25. Performances are this Friday through
In the play, a priest, Father Rivard, has Sunday, October3-5. 
been accused of murdering a nun. The The ballets to be performed by
circumstances leading up to the murder Bournville areLa Ventana, which
are portrayed in flashback form.' includes an inventive mirror dance,
The play is not only a taut suspense requiring exactly duplicated movedrama, it is also a critical examination of ments by two dancers, and La Sylphide.
the relationship between Father Rivard, a Harp Concerto Pas de Deux, by Michael
man afraid of recognizing his own emo- Smuin, will also be performed,
tions, and the nun, Sister Rita. Ingrid Fraley, from the Joffrey Ballet,
A movie version of this play, starring debuts as PBTs new principal dancer
Dick Van Dyke, will be presented by AB with this program, joining the other
Films on Friday, November 7. principals, Keith Martin, Francesca
The Soho Repertory Theater is on the Corkle and Miguel Campaneria.
comer of Fifth and Craft in Oakland. The Curtain time is 8:00 for the Friday and
play will be shown on Thursday and Fri- Saturday shows, and 2:30 for the Sunday
day nights. Student ticket prices are $2.50. program. Call 281-0360 for tickets and
682-0438 for tickets and information. information. Keith Martin and Francesca Corkle in La \ entana at PBT October 3-5
Deathtrap: From Broadway with suspenseful success
CONCERTflLE
photo by Robert Zusman
The lead guitarist of Carsickness, one of th'ree new wave bands that played in Skibo Ballroom last 
Saturday night. Look for review next week.
The Civic Arena will be the sight of a 
heavy metal tandem on Friday, October 3 
as Black Sabbath and Blue Oyster Cult fill 
the downtown with the guitar-oriented 
sorcercy they are so well known for. Both 
bands have had basically the same musical 
concepts since their inceptions; only Sab
baths lineup has been altered, with the 
replacement of lead singer Ozzy Osbourne 
with Ronnie James Dios (late of Rain
bow). Dios is on Black Sabbaths latest LP, 
Heai>en and Hell, the latest BOC record 
being Cultosaurus Erectus.
Flie Black and Blue Fours opening 
act will be Skakin Street, with the whole 
program being presented by DiCeasere Fngler in cxx)peration with Danny 
Kresge. Tickets are on sale now at the 
Carole DePaul as the psychic Helga Ten Dorp in Deathtrap. At the Playhouse through October 12. usual outlets.
Rick Danko, former bass player for The Band, 
will perform in concert in Skibo Ballroom, 
Sunday, October 12.
by Melody Mazzie
There is so much to say about the 
Playhouse Theatres deathtrap, but the 
nature of the play prohibits me from 
saying half of what I feel.
I read with confusion the press release 
which explained Deathtrap as a scary 
comedy, but I now understand the 
description.
As the play opens, Sidney Bruhl is a 
frustrated playwright in search of mate
rial for a new thriller. When sent a script 
by one of his former students, Bruhl is 
not only impressed but is tempted to 
claim it for himself and do away with 
the student.
Sidney Bruhl is charming, witty and 
intellectual. His one line humor is hard 
to resist. You wouldnt really kill 
him? asks his wife Myra. After 11 
years of marriage you still dont know 
me, replies Bruhl, of course I would. 
The audience is amused, the tension 
relieved, and laughter rises.
Then just when youve relaxed back 
into your seat, the mood changes. A 
startling incident occurs that nearly 
throws you onto the lap of your neigh
bor. Deathtrap isnt funny anymore, its
When you finally have a hold on the 
plot and are understanding just what is 
going on, the whole thing takes a sharp 
turn. Plot A becomes enveloped in a 
larger, more intricate plot B that totally 
bedazzles the mind.
I couldnt help but wonder at the 
creativity and imagination of Death
traps author Ira Levin. Levin also 
wrote the hits Critics Choice, Rosem
arys Baby, The Stepford Wives, and 
The Boys From Brasil. All are fascinat
ing works, and Deathtrap likewise is 
nothing less than intriguing, not only 
for the amazement in realizing that one 
man could create such .in idea in his 
mind.
To reveal any part of the plot would 
ruin the surprises - which are many - 
and would take away from the total 
effect of the play.
I will say, however, that Hugh Rose is 
not only exceptional as Sidney Bruhl, 
but he probably is one of the main fac
tors for the Playhouse versions success. 
Myra Bruhl is played by veteran actress 
Kate Young, who gives a good perfor
mance, and Jeff Paul does a fair job 
portraying the student, Clifford Ander
son. Helga Ten Dorp, the psychic who
lives next door, is played by Carol 
DePaul. Ms. DePauls performance 
adds a lot of color to the play, but her 
fake Dutch accent sounds like it has 
Jewish overtones.
The entire play takes place in Bruhls 
study, a massive room of heavy wooden 
furniture, a large stone fireplace, and 
french doors. On the walls hang win
dow posters of his published murder 
mysteries, as^ell as all sorts of murder 
weapons - guns, daggers, axes, cross
bows... you name it. Eileen Garrigan
made the room very effective as the set
ting for both acts.
Deathtrap is directed by Don Wads
worth, who is also an actor and has 
appeared with major theatre companies 
as well as on PBS - TV.
The play will run through Oct. 12 at 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse and begins at 
8 p.m. Reservations can be made by cal
ling 621 - 4445. I can guarantee that you 
wont be bored for a moment. D thtrap 
is not only an attention getter, out an 
attention keeper.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanSeptember 30, 1980
The Europeans: James
by Davidson Thompson
The Europeans is one of those short 
Henry James novels in which the tone of 
the authors voice seems a little uncertainly 
ironic ~ James seems unable to pass judge
ment on his characters, trapped in the 
crossfire between admiration and condem
nation. His themes are, as usual, the hero
ism of determined women, the necessity of 
money in a life well-lived, and the opposi
tion of the exciting, if fruitless hedonism of 
the Europeans, against the dull but noble 
piousness of the Americans.
James Ivory has directed a film version 
of the novel from a screenplay by Ruth 
Prawer Jhabvala, and together (they are 
the collaborators who gave us many obs
cure films including Ballroom) they have 
achieved much of the uncertainty of the 
novel. But in their case the uncertainty 
seems accidental - the script has become so 
bare, and the acting so dangerously empty, 
that we arent sure that they know any of 
the moral contigendes of the work, let 
alone support one of them above the 
others.
Lee Remick plays the Baronness Muns
ter, returning from her disintegrating mar
riage to a European prince to visit her long 
lost American cousins, the Wentworths. 
Her brother Felix (Tim Woodward), a 
Bohemian artist, is in tow, and together 
they charm, byt mosdy shock, the subur
ban Bosston community where the 
wealthy Puritan Wentworths live.
Felix arouses a romantic frenzy in Ger
trude Wentworth (Lisa Eichhom), the
youngest daughter, and enrages her suitor, 
Mr. Brand, a Unitarian minister (Norman 
Snow). The Baronness charms all the gen
tlemen, until they begin to feel that she is 
more than a little indecent. And in the end 
the Baronness departs.
In the novel, James combatted the sim
plicity of his plot by giving his main char
acter a threatening power - he believes in 
the power of the individual willtndas the 
Baronness moves higher in Bostoniah 
society, we can cheer her on, cheer her 
ability to continually salvage her life des
pite her environment. Her departure at the 
end, no better off than when she came to 
America, seems to be a conscious decision 
- no one can make her go, and no one can 
keep her, she is the image of independant 
strength.
But the film has lost all of this. The 
budget was small (one million dollars), so 
the action is confined to two houses owned 
by the Massachusetts Historical Society, 
and to endless drives in the autumnal 
countryside (even though James set the 
story in the Spring). We miss the Baronnesss rise in Bostonian society.
Also we miss all of the psychological 
depth that James gives his characters, 
stripped from the film along with all the 
dialogue that Jhabvala has edited from the 
screenplay (I dont generally believe that 
novels should be transposed to the screen 
literally, untouched by outside hands, but 
in this case I think a better film could have 
been made by following the novel more 
closely). Jhabvala has cut anything that 
would give us an idea of the Baronnesss
novel comes
motivations, her reasons for coming to her 
cousins -- and those motivations are the 
heart of the story.
Instead of cleverly veiling motivations as 
James does, Jhabvala has stricken them 
from the record. When Remick appears on 
the scene, too well dressed, and grinning 
with gritted teeth, we sense that she wants 
something from these people and that she 
will stop at nothing to get it. When she 
suddenly begins to weep, we can see that 
something is dreadfully wrong in her life. 
But as th film goes on and she courts the 
neighbors and wears dresses that are too 
low-cut for American standards, we get no 
closer to understanding her initial actions 
or her motives, or even those evil desires 
that we suspected at the beginning. Were 
still waiting to be clued in at the very end 
when shes packing up her possession and 
moving on -- we dont know why she came 
(although there is some indication that 
shes after a rich husband) or whether she 
got what she wanted or not, and we dont 
know where shes going to whether or not 
shes happy about it. And, of course, by 
this time weve stopped caring.
Ivorys direction doesnt help solidify 
matters - in fact he seems to have done his 
best to muddy the waters even more. His 
frames are so static and clumsy that we 
sense the behind-the -scenes discussions 
and rehearsals - its like a series of outtakes 
strung together. He also loses control of 
the films tone. What starts out as ironic 
drama, disintegrates by the end into Resto
ration farce, with illicit lovers hiding in 
back-rooms, and lovesick girls screeming
to screen
into their pillows.
Ivory also seems scared of any scene that 
might run over sixty seconds - he interspli
ces every scene with another scene, until we 
lose all sense of that endless Jamesian rhe
toric, and with it any sense of extended 
emotion or plot structure.
The performances  all goodintentioned if somewhat mannered - 
come to nothing in this kind of film. 
Remick has some good moments; her 
aging bone-china face flickers between 
sincerity and ij:y charm, but shes never 
strong enough to be this conniving Baron
ness, and even with ger quick smile and 
her English accent, shes never elegant or 
European enough for the role. Lisa Eich
hom plays Romance like a William Inge - 
shes panting and screaming like Natalie 
Wood in Splendour in the Grass. Norman 
Snow as Mr. Brand, plays with finesse and 
fire, but his Warren Beatty/Oliver Reed 
sensuality - hes all lips - makes him 
much more like the devil than like some 
pious churchman, so that were confused 
again.
Its all unmemorable - so much that 
you remember the wallpaper in the dining 
room before you remember anything that 
was said there. And for Henry James, a 
master of dialogue and the psychology 
behind it, thats pretty sad.
Now Read This!
Catharsis can be yours by sending 
your opinions via campus mail to Richard 
Gotelick, The Entertainment Editor, Box 
17, Skibo.
Prove it!in A PHI 0s 
Ugliest Man On Campus Contest 
Just send 2 Black & White photos of yourself to:
A PHI 0 Box 100 Campus
Mail
DEADLINE Oct. 14, 5 p.m. 
Voting to be held Oct. 15-17 
winners announced at Homecom
ing football game
the UMOC?Are
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE CA
m mry" * % ; W 'VW, - f:;..

---------------------------------------------------

September 30, 1980The TartanPage 13
Yes satisfies Civic Arena crowd
I 
by Adam I aumr
On Thursday, the 18th, Yes brought 
their show to the Civic Arena. Yes has 
undergone quite a few personnel changes 
in the 70sand in this latest incarnation 
they are sans both Jon Anderson (vocals) 
and Rick Wakeman (keyboardist). Their 
replacements are two English fellows who 
were formerly in a group called The Bug
gies. The new Yesmen are Trevor Horn 
(vocals) and Geoff Downes (keyboards). 
The Buggies were a new-wave rock group, 
and the new members have brought that 
new-wave enthusiam and vivacity to Yes.
The resultant product is still Yes, how
ever, it is a Yes with more hard rock ten
dencies and a more down-to-earth 
approach. In my estimation the group has 
benefited vasdy from this change; Jon 
Anderson was becoming too ethereal, and 
Rick Wakeman had become jaded and 
bored (he probably needed the money). 
The remaining core of Yes, Steve Howe 
(guitar), Chris Squire (bass), and Alan 
White (percussion) have never sounded 
stronger or more confident of their identity 
as a group since Close to the Edge.
When Anderson (one of the founders of 
Yes along with Chris Squire) left the 
group, I wondered if they could continue 
on and still be Yes. As far as I am concerned 
the new album, Drama, and the concert on 
Thursday were more than enough proof 
that Yes still livestriumphant and 
kicking.
Yes performed on a round revolving 
stage on the floor of the Civic Arena. They 
materialized 6n stage as a circular curtain 
in the middle of the stage rose. The effect 
was rather like the beaming down process 
from Star Trek. As the crowd roared their 
approval and greeting, Yes raced to their 
respective instruments and immediately 
broke into Does It Really Happen? a 
song from their new album. It was a per
fect opening song; a musical tour-de-force 
featuring the steadily throbbing bass of 
Mr. Squire and the staccato, gunfire riffs of 
Alan Whites drums.
From that they segued into an old favor
ite, "Yours Is No Disgrace. On this song 
Mr. Squire displayed his musical virtuos
ity by blowing out a mean lead on a 
harmonicaa new twist for sure. Into the 
Lens followed, a hit from the new album. 
The band really looked as though they 
were enjoying themselvesjumping 
around on stage and communicating with 
the crowd.
Steve Howe followed with an acoustic 
guitar solo The Clap which led into 
And You and I. Trevor Horns vocals 
were strong and interesting; paying tribute 
to Anderson (Horn sounds very much like 
him), but using his own uniquely punkish 
wailing.
Lights flashing wildly and hypnotically 
(the light show was magnificent), Yes 
finally broke into Tempus Fugit, an 
uptempo rocker hit from the new album. 
They seemed to float off the ground on 
that number; the intensity of the crowd 
and the band surged.
Other highlights of the concert were 
White Car, Parallels, Machine Mes
siah, Starship Trooper and the encore 
Roundabout.
The fourteen song program lasted two 
hours. The show was exciting and for me, 
revitalizing. Yes has long been the harbin
gers of the future sound; a progressive rock 
group with some classical background. At 
the Arena they proved that the sum of Yes 
is greater than its parts. For those of you 
who missed the showmy deepest 
regretsyou missed a real experience.
Marleys concert becomes Halie Selassie
by Ted Smits
"Regular sustained usage of marijua
na was shoivn to cause an appreciable 
drop in the subjectsmental capacity, espe
cially in the areas of motivation, assertive
ness and aggressiveness. In addition, 
subjects experienced a desire to strive for 
new and more wide ranging experiences 
outside of what would ordinarily be 
defined as normal, rational behavior. 
From a 1978 British Medical Society 
Report.
In 1967 Bob Marley converted to Ras
tafarianism, the Jamaican cult that recog
nizes the late Ethiopian emperor, Haile 
Selassie, as the personification of God, 
and sees smoking marijuana as a religous 
experience. Rastas also eschew the capital
ist system and look to Jah (God) to lead 
them back to the promised land of Africa; 
leaving the white men in their Babylon 
(From 1980 Warner Brothers Records Press 
Release)
Performing before an enormous back
drop depicting various views of Haile Sel
assie, Bob Marley and the Wailers brought 
a more than appreciative audience to their
feet time and time again during last Tues
day nights concert at the downtown Stan
ley Theater.
The show, which attracted an unusually 
high number of CMU students, was 
opened by the I-Threes, a trio of female 
singers who also accompany Bob Marley 
on stage. The I-Three^short set fixed the 
mood for the rest of the evening with a 
relaxing and entertaining recital of the 
basic reggae music style. Backing up the 
I-Threes were the same musicians who1 
provided the strong, rythymnic backing 
for Bob Marley.
Marley opened the show with his stand
ard greeting, in which he evokes the name 
of Haile Selassie, ever-living, ever-loving 
and ever-experienced ...etc. Marley 
obviously takes his involvement in the 
Rastafarian cult very seriously, a fact 
which lends a certain feeling of tension to 
his performances that is rarely, if ever seen 
in most concerts.
After running through a fairly mellow 
number, Marley got the Stanley crowd on 
its feet and dancing with a powerful ver
sion of Positive Vibrations. An equally 
good version of Burning followed and
the show was off to a good start. For the 
next hour and a half, Marley and the Wail
ers entertained the crowd with a number of 
songs from his latest release Uprising and 
a selection of greatest hits.
Highlights of the show included War, 
Jamming and No More Trouble. All 
of these numbers were characterized by a 
stronger emphasis on rock and roll and 
less emphasis on the pure reggae sound. 
After a while the simple reggae beat can get 
monotonous and for a live concert, boring. 
But Marley was never boring last Tuesday, 
most of the time the crowd was on their 
feet, dancing along with Marley. When he 
is not singing or playing guitar, Marley 
dances onstage in the slow reggae-punk 
style made famous by such groups as Mad
ness and the Specials. The Stanley show, 
which featured four encores (two of them 
coming after the house lights had been 
turned on), was very enjoyable and helped 
show why so many groups are looking to 
reggae music for their influences. Reggaes 
danceable beat and emphasis on intelli
gent song construction are two factors that 
have been sorely missing in popular music 
lately.
ATTENTION SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING MAJORS!
The Air Force has openings for young men and women majoring in 
selected science and engineering fields. Like Aeronautical. Aerospace, 
General and Electrical Engineering, Mathematics, Physics and Com
puter Technology.
To help pr* pare for one of these. Air Force ROTC offers two and 
four year programs of study which will defray some of your college 
costs.
After completion of the AFROTC requirement, and upon your grad
uation, youll be commissioned an officer in the Air Force. Then comes 
responsibility, experience in your specialty with some of the best peo
ple and facilities in the world, and a mission with a purpose. Youll get 
excellent starting salary, medical and dental care. 30 days of paid va
cation beginning your first year, and more.
Look into the Air Force ROTC program right away. See whats in it 
for you. See how you can serve your country in return. Youll be glad 
you put your major to work on a job that really counts.
Air Force ROTC, 2917 Cathedral of Learning 
University of Pittsburgh
XV mumccFg
ROTC
Gateway to a great way of life.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanSeptember 30, 1980
Architecture in disarray; students concerned
continued from page 1
vance with the Faculty Senate. The Senate 
ruled in his favor, informing him in mid - 
August that he could return to teach this 
fall. Adkins declined to teach in the fall 
semester because of the lateness of the 
Senates desdsion, which left him little 
time to prepare for the beginning of classes 
in September. Adkins will be teaching one 
studio and one elective in the spring, while 
being paid one full years salary. Adkins 
declined to comment on the drcumstances 
surrounding his resignation.
Students send plea
In response to the April meeting with 
the Junior Faculty, 28 hand written letters 
expressing student concern were delivered 
to Sauer. These letters prompted the stu
dent committee to draft a petition letter 
which was signed by 108 students. The 
petition was sent on August 16 as a plea 
for those addressed to listen to the rising 
concern, consternation, and frustration of 
the Student Body of the Department of 
Architecture.
The letter stated:
Extents such as the resignation of two 
highly valued and respected faculty, whose
main objective is the education of their 
students is cause for concern. Concern over 
the steady flow of high caliber faculty out 
of the Department to other architectural 
schools. Concern about the administra
tions refusal, even now, to issue a formal 
statement of existing and projected policy. 
Concern over departmental committees, 
particularly those concerned with policy, 
being representative of only a very limited 
part of the Department and its interests. 
Concern over the lack of consideration of 
current methodologies and inherent quali
ties of the existing program. Concern 
about the administrations frequent neg
lect of courtesy and diplomatic concern 
towards the students during this difficult 
transition. Change must come but unless 
the students are kept informed and their 
sensibilities respected, there will be point
less rumors and strife.
Copies of this letter were sent to Presi
dent Cyert, Dean Akram Midani, Louis 
Sauer, members of the Junior and Senior 
faculty of the Architecture Department, 
Architecture alumni, and to the Pittsburgh 
Chapter of the American Institute of 
Architects (ALA).
The students letter prompted two
responses. The first response came from 
Cyert in a letter sent to each of the 108 
students who signed the petition. The let
ter dated August 20th, stated: I want to 
assure you that I am concerned. There is 
no question about my willingness to listen 
to the concerns of the student body. As a 
result of your letter, I have asked Provost 
Richard Van Horn, Dean Akram Midani, 
and Department Head Louis Sauer to 
make certain that you receive full informa
tion about the future plans of the depart
ment. At this point, Professor Sauer is 
sending a letter describing the directions, 
strategies and various changes that are 
envisioned. If you have not already 
received his letter, you will soon get it.
The only formal statement by Sauer was 
the Departments annual newsletter. The 
newsletter listed faculty changes and gen
eral information regarding the depart
ment, but failed to address the issues raised 
by the students.
The second response came from Sylves
ter Damianos, President of the Pittsburgh 
Chapter of the ALA. Damianos asked to be 
informed of exactly who was acting as the 
spokesperson for the students. In a follow - 
up letter to Damianos, Alan Cuteri, Dave
(Ozzie) Virgil, and Craig MacLeod were 
named as contacts for the students. On 
September 10, Sauer met with these stu
dents. At this time a statement of policy 
was again requested from Sauer.
Students meet with Cyert
On September 24, nineteen Architecture 
students met with Cyert, Midani, and Van 
Horn to discuss the large number of 
faculty members leaving the department, 
space allocation, conditions of the studios, 
restrictions brought about by the limited 
number of design and history electives 
offered, and curriculum changes. Cyert at 
this time indicated that Sauers statement 
was on its way, that money was in the 
budget for equipment, and that he 
intended to take a walk through the stu
dios with Midani and student representa
tives. At this time, Cyert also discussed the 
Adkins contract controversy.
Faculty controversy
Considerable controversy surrounds the 
resignation and non - reappointment of 
several faculty members. Over the past two 
years, 16 faculty and six staff members have 
continued on page 18
GENERAL DYNAMICS
FUTURE. MAKE A CAREER OF IT.
Thats when General Dynamics 
representatives will be on your campus 
to talk to you about your future.
General Dynamics, a Fortune 100 
company, is best known as the na
tion's leading defense contractor. But 
we have a wide-range of programs in 
many other commercial high-tech - 
nology fields as well.
Youll find excellent career oppor
tunities in nearly every engineering 
and scientific discipline, including 
computer sciences and business 
administration.
For more information on careers in 
aerospace, electronics, telecommuni
cations, data products, shipbuilding, 
tactical weaponry and other areas, be 
sure to pick up one of our brochures at 
your Placement Office and make an 
interview appointment.
And, plan to attend our Corporate 
presentation the evening before 
our on-campus interviews. Details 
at your Placement Office.
Or, if you prefer, send your 
resume to:
BILL COLEMAN, Corporate College 
Relations Administrator 
GENERAL DYNAMICS 
Pierre Laclede Center, CN-14 
St. Louis, MO 63105
An Equal Opportunity Employer
CAMPUS INTERVIEWSOCTOBER I6& 17

---------------------------------------------------

Plaid Curtain falls on Gators, 24-0
PAC STANDINGS
WLper.
Carnegie-Mellon201.000
Bethany201.000
John Carroll11.500
Wash-Jeff11.500
Thiel11.500
Hiram11.500
Allegheny02.000
Case Western02.000
List VVeeksResults 
Ciamegie-Mellon 24 Allegheny 0 
Bethany 14 John Carroll 10 
Hiram 14 Washington 8c Jefferson 13 
Hiiel 34 Ciise Western Resene 7
Tues. Sept. 30FIELD HOCKEYCMU vs. Chatham(A)4:30 PM
BASEBALLCMU vs. Point Park(H)2:30 PM
Wed. Oct. 1SOCCERCMU vs. West Liberty(H)3:30 PM
WOMENS TENNISCM 11 vs. St Francis(A)3:00 PM 
Thur. Oct. 2VOLLEYBALLCMU vs. Penn St.-McKeesport(H)6:00 PM
BASEBALLCMU vs. Penn St.-McKeesport(H)1:00 PM
Fri. Oct. 3WOMENS TENNISCMU vs. California State(A)3:30 PM
FIELD HOCKEYCMU vs. Bethany(A)4:00 PM
Sat. Oct. 4FOOTBALLCMU vs. Washington 8c Jefferson(A)1:30 PM
X-COUNTRY'CMU vs. Bethany 8c Allegheny(H)11:30 AM
SOCCERCMU, vs. Bethany(A)11:00 AM
VOLLEYBALLCMU vs. Robert Morris(A)1:00 PM
Sun. Oct. 5BASEBALLCMU vs. Beaver County CC(H)1:00 PM
Mon. Oct. 6VOLLEYBALLCM 1 vs. Waynesburg(A)7:00 PM
day with 39 yards rushing.
by Bob Share
The Camegie-Mellon University Tar
tan football team, ranked fourth in the 
NCAA Division III polls, raised its record 
to 2-0 in the Presidents Athletic Confer
ence and 4-0 overall this season by blank
ing the Allegheny Gators 24-0 before a 
crowd estimated at three thousand at Tech 
Field last Saturday. The Tartans took 
advantage of two ill-timed Gator turnovers 
to score touchdowns during an otherw ise 
evenly played first half, then the CMU 
Plaid Curtain defense rose to the occa
sion in the second half to totally stymie the 
Allegheny offense and whatever comeback 
plans they might have had.
Allegheny started the game from poor 
field position, as kick returner Eugene 
Tommasi fumbled the opening kickoff on 
his own three, then recovered, and could 
only get to the Allegheny five before being 
downed by a swarm of Tartan defenders. 
After gaining a first down, the Tartan 
defense stopped the Gator offense, and a 
subsequent Allegheny five, once again giv
ing the Gators poor field position. That 
bad field position for Allegheny turned 
into great field position for the Tartans 
one play later, as CMU recovered a Gator 
fumble on the Allegheny eight. Those 
eight yards were covered in two plays, the 
latter a three yard burst by Tartan fullback 
Jeff Harrison giving the Plaid their first 
touchdown of the afternoon. After a
blocked extra point the Tartans led, 6-0, 
with 8:51 remaining in the first quarter.
The rest of the first half was marked by 
sustained drives by both squads which 
ended with no points being put on the 
scoreboard, mainly due to mistakes. 
Allegheny took the kickoff after the first 
CMU touchdown and drove to the Tartan 
40, but an errant pass by Gator quarter
back Randy Lamendola landed in the 
arms of CMU safety Ted Thomas at the 
Tartan 19.
From there, the Plaid offense, led by 
running of Harrison and quarterback 
Rick Brown, took the ball to the Allegheny
23 before a Brown fumble turned the ball 
over again. Allegheny then began a drive 
that took them inside the Tartan 15, but 
penalties for ineligible receiver and inten
tional grounding sent the Gators out of 
field goal range. After an exchange of 
punts Allegheny had possession of the ball 
again, and this time drove down to the 
CMU four, but a 21 yard field goal attempt 
by Gator kicker Phil Henderson was 
booted wide.
After another Tarian drive, which ended 
with loss of possession due to fumble, 
Allegheny took over on their own 33 with 
2:37 to play in the second stanza. On the 
Gators first play however, CMU safety 
Bill Humphrey stepped in front of a pass 
intended for Allegheny flanker Tommasi, 
and returned the interception to the Gator 
Tartan teams in action this week:
photo by Jenny L^idd
Wide receiver Pete Recchia comes down with a pass out of bounds in third quarter action last 
Saturday. Recchia was injured on the play. He will be examined this week to determine the extent of 
the injury and when he can return to the line-up.
five. The Tartan offense, given the fine 
field position, did not waste the opportun
ity. After an offensive holding penalty set 
them back fifteen yards to the twenty, 
Brown found Recchia with a pass in the 
front left comer of the Allegheny end zone 
for the second score. CMU then made up 
for the earlier missed extra point by suc
cessfully executing the two point conver
sion, with Brown rolling to his right and 
again throwing to Recchia in the end zone. 
The first half ended with the Tartans hold
ing a 14-0 edge. The halftime statistics 
showed a very close game despite the score. 
The total offensive yardage was very close 
(185 for CMU, 163 for Allegheny), and 
Allegheny had piled up more first down 
(nine to eight).
The Tartan offensive unit opened the 
second half with a fourteen play, sixty-two 
yard drive that ended at the Allegheny 
eight, where Tartan kicker Denny Postufka split the uprights on a twenty-five 
yard field goal that upped the CMU advan
tage to 17-0. Again the workhorses during 
the drive were Harrison and Brown, Harri
son rushing seven times for 27 yards, 
Brown completing two passes for twelve 
yards and running three times for fifteen.
The rest of the game belonged to CMUs 
Plaid Curtain defense, which held the 
Gators offensive squad to a mere nineteen 
total net yards in the second half. The 
Tartan defensive line, consisting of nose 
guard Rick Arturo, tackles Joe Csonka and 
Jim Steinke, and ends Jim Gresh and Pat 
Mechas, put consistent pressure on the 
Allegheny quarterbacks, forcing them to 
go zero for eight passing in the second half. 
The nineteen yards rushing allowed by the 
defense in that half came in ten carries, an 
average of only 1.9 yards a try.
Coach Chuck Klausing has guided the Tartans to 
19 consecutive regular season victories over the 
last three seasons.
Likewise, the CMU offense dominated 
their rivals defense in the second half, 
three times driving deep into Gator terri
tory, and coming out of it with another 
touchdown. The first drive began at the 
end of the third quarter and ran into the 
fourth, ending at the Allegheny 17, where 
a 34 yard field goal try by Postufka was 
partially blocked, and landed short and 
wide to the left. Minutes later the Tartan 
offense drove from their 26 to the Gator 
276, the key play being a 25 yard run by Joe 
Vasalani. But another field goal attempt 
by Postufka, this one from 44 yards, went 
wide to the right. The final CMU drive 
covered 61 yeards on five plays, and was 
capped by a four yard run by backup quar
terback Lou Olive. Olive, Vasalani, and 
Brad Hu war spearheaded the drive by pick
ing up good gains. Postufkas extra point 
continued on page 16

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanSeptember 30, 1980
npTICT
ENGINEERINGDRAFTINGSUPPLIES
TOP NOTCH
ART MATERIALS. INC. 
819 PENN AVE ( PGH.)
Newcomers key to netters success
The CMU womens tennis team, 
champions of the Pennwood West Con
ference a season ago, seem to be well on 
their way to another title this year. The 
netters beat two conference rivals last 
week, Chatham and Bethany, and are 
undefeated in league play. The Plaid 
stopped crosstown rival Chatham, 6-2, 
and shut out Bethany, 8-0.
Throughout the week, the key to the 
Tartans victories has been the exceptionl singles play of two newcomers, 
Annette Aloe and Bridgette Kyne. Aloe, 
a transfer student from Pitt, has stepped 
into the number one slot on the team 
and has played superbly, losing only 
one match to date. A graduate of New 
Castle High School, Whiz, as her 
teammates call her, has made her mark 
as one of the top singles players in the 
PWC.
Kyne is only a freshman and has been 
the most pleasant surprise for Coach 
Mark Bush this season. The Sacred 
Heart High School graduate has yet to 
lose a set this year and has won two 
matches by the score, 6-0, 6-0. In last 
weeks action, Kyne shut down Shereen 
Nord of Chatham by 6-0, 6-0. Aloe won 
in a bagel job on Saturday against 
Bethanys Cindy Marks.
Jennifer Mullan and Diane Doyle 
also swept through their two matches 
last week while Margaret Mullan, 
Brenda Goldstein and Trina Nagasawa 
each won the one match they played.
The doubles teams have had a little 
more trouble this season than the sin
gles players but Coach Bush thinks he 
knows the problem. Teams seem to be 
playing their best girls, the ones who
played singles last year, against our 
doubles teams. The other coaches seem 
to be conceding us singles. Despite 
this, the doubles teams of Fran Arscht 
and Pauline Kramer, Karen Jones and 
Sue Lauren, and Trina Nagasawa and 
Margaret Mullan swept through 
Bethany, losing only one set along the 
way.
The Tartans continue their defense of 
the PWC crown tomorrow when they 
travel to St. Francis for a 3:30 match.
CMU 6 Chatham 2
Annette Aloe (CMU) defeated Kathy 
Allison 6-4, 6-0. Jennifer Mullan
(CMU) defeated Shereen Nord 6-0, 6-0. 
Diane Doyle (CMU) defeated Sue Siegel 
6-0, 6-1. Margaret Mulan (CMU)
defeated Martha Carrozza 6-0,6-0. Trina 
Nagasawa (CMU) defeated Hildy Karev 
6-1, 6-0. Synott and Staruch (Chatham) 
defeated Arscht - Kramer 7-6, 7-5. Bouton and Silverman (Chatham) defeated 
Jones - Lauren 6-3, 7-5.
CMU 8 Bethany 0
Annette Aloe defeated Cindy Marks 6-0, 
6-0. Jennifer Mullan defeated Mery 
Gatungo 6-0, 6-3. Bridgette Kyne
defeated Beth Gospodarek 6-2, 6-1. 
Diane Doyle defeated Beth Doyle 6-1, 
6-2. Brenda Goldstein defeated Pam 
Valentine 6-1, 6-2. Arscht - Kramer 
defeated Barryman - Mortimer 3-6, 6-3, 
6-4. Jones - Lauren defeated Madison - 
Valentine 6-2, 6-4. M. Mullan
Nagasawa defeated McNallyGlenn 6-4, 
6-3.
Annette Aloe, a transfer student from Pitt, has stepped into the number one spot on the womens 
tennis team.
A gtfl becomes a woman 
when she assumes responsibility 
or herself
At Womn t Health Services you receive 
professional confidential help
 Free pregnancy testing
 Free pregnancy counseling
 Termination of unwanted 
pregnancy
 Contraceptive care program
 Seiuality counseling
 Marriage counseling
 Gynecological checkups 
and Pap tests
 Sonography 
Learn how your body worts 
and take good care of if 
Call or write today
U Jiff
WOMEN S HEALTH 
SERVICES INC 
1209 ALLEGHENY TOWER 
625 STANWIX STREET 
PITTSBURGH PA 15222 
(412)562 1900 
MONDAY SATURDAY
Gridders blank Gators
continued from page 15
made the final tally 24-0, in favor of the
Tartans.
The offensive line gave plenty of protec
tion to quarterback Brown, who enjoyed 
his finest game of the season, compledng 
10 of 16 passes for 106 yards and a touch
down. He also gained 39 yards on the 
ground in 12 carries. A lot of credit should 
also be given to the CMU special teams 
squads, for consistendy pinning the 
Gators deep in their own territory on the 
kickoffs. Recchia led the team in reception 
with four for fifty yards and a TD. The 
leading CMU ball carriers were Harrison, 
with 77 yards in 19 attempts, and Vasalani, 
with 55 yards in 9 tries. CMU goes on the 
road for the first time this week to take on 
Washington 8c Jefferson.. Their next 
home game will be October 18, the Home
coming game against Case Western 
Reserve.
Here are the Division III national rank
ings prior to last weekends games.
1. Ithaca (NY), 300
2. Widener (PA), 200
3. Baldwin-Wallace (OH), 200
4. Camegie-Mellon, 300
5. WisconsinWhitewater, 300
6. Wabash (IN), 300
7. Gettysburg (PA), 200
8. Dayton (OH), 300
9. Dubuque (IA), 201
10. Wagner (NY), 200
CMU 6 8 3 7 - 24
Allegheny 0 0 0 0 - 0
CMU Jeff Harrison 3yds. (kick 
blocked)
CMU Rick Brown pass to Pete Recchia
20yds. (Brown to Recchia)
CMU Denny Postufka 25yd. FG 
CMU Lou Olive 4yds. (Postufka kick)
CMU Allegheny 
First Downs 16 9
Rushesyds. 59246 3681
Passing yards 108 101
Att-Comp.-Int 19111 23-9-2
Total yards 354 182
Fumbleslost 32 11
Puntsavg. 430.8 738.1
Penaltiesyards 680 551
CMU LEADERS 
Passing- Brown 10 for 16, 106 yards, 
1TD. Olive 1 for 3, 2 yards, 1 int.
Rushing- Harrison 19 for 77 yards, 
1TD. Vasalani 9 for 55 yards. Sansoti 8 for 
44 yards. Brown 12 for 39 yards. Huwar 3 
for 18 yards. Colosimo 4 for 14 yards. Olive 
4 for -1 yard, 1TD.
Receiving- Recchia 4 for 50, ITD. 
Drakulic 3 for 34. Vasalani 2 for 18. 
I eposky 1 for 4. Grachen 1 for 2.

---------------------------------------------------

September 30, 1980The TartanPage 17
Wild Bunch, Pika-A and ATO lead IM football
by Leslie Weiser
Results from games played in intramu
ral sports are starting to come in. It may be 
too early to tell just how things will shape 
up in days to come, but so far, weve got a 
lot of great teams competing in some excit
ing games. In touch football, Wild Bunch, 
Pika-A and ATO have all won their open
ing game. A few of the intermediate teams 
have already won two games. In the Green 
Division, Stench III is leading and, in the 
Harris Division, BAMF is out in front. In 
the Cunningham Division of the Minor 
League, the Herd is on top while Kappa 
Sig-C is currently leading the Wagner Div
ision. Kappa Kappa Gamma has chalked 
up two wins in the Womens League. The 
commissioners for touch football are 
Rocky Gersosimo for the Majors and 
Womens League, phone 578-4613, and 
Wes Seeley, phone 687-0843, and Mark 
McKeefrey, phone 682-9211, for Interme
diate and Minor League.
Some reminders to teams: Please note 
the score and winning team on the scoresheet and please return the equipment to 
the IM shed after the last game. League 
standings are posted on the IM Bulletin
Board. Officiating schedules should be 
obtained from the IM office.
The tennis statistics are still too sketchy 
to pick out a clear leader; the standings are 
posted on the IM bulletin board. Schedules 
are out so please get your matches played 
on time and turn in the results at the IM 
office. The commissioner for tennis is 
Greg Anderson, phone 743-3121.
Sports coming up soon are Co-Ret Vol
leyball, Cross Country, Chess, and Water 
Polo. Co-Rec volleyball rosters will be 
accepted until 4:30 today and the practice 
schedule will be posted this week. Please 
watch the IM bulletin board for the game 
schedule. The commissioner is Mike 
Pochan, phone 682-0372.
The date for the cross country meet has 
not been selected. Entries will be taken up 
to the time of the race. Bob Dudas, phone 
682-6133, is the commissioner.
Chess and water polo still need a com
missioner. Water Polo practice times are 
posted on the IM bulletin board and all 
games will be played at 8:30 and 9:15 PM. 
There must be a certified lifeguard present 
at all times during games.
Sports due Thursday, October 2 are 
Soccer, 6-person Volleyball, Bowling 
(commissioner Dave Hecht, phone 678- 
8968), Racquetball (commissioner Don 
Polansky, phone 372-5276), and Table 
Tennis.
Denise Ryan was re-elected intramural 
board secretary at the last meeting. The 
next meeting is set for Thursday, October 2 
at 12:30 PM in Room 104, Gym.
MAJORS
BradshawWin
SAE.............................ft
1
ATO..........................., . 1
, 1
Coaches All Stars ....1
ft
, . .ft
Swan Win
Schlag Dorms...................0
Red Death..........................0
Cosmic Echoes................0
ZooA..................................1
Oslo Men.............................1
Johnson 8c Johnson .. 1
Harris Win
Kappa Sig...........................1
Raiders.................................0
B.A.M.F.................................2
Sinfonians.........................0
PKTA...............................1
The Gang............................1
ZBT.......................................0
INTERMEDIATES
Loss Greene Win
1 Great White Hope ... 1
1 Stench III..............................2
0 SUPA  ................................0
0 Cones 8c Co............................0
1 Shippers Assets...................1
0 Beta AA .................................0
Loss Lambert Win
0 Macks......................................1
1 Mudge.....................................0
0 Doherty Dozen ...................1
2 Boss Hall..............................0
1 DU.............................................1
0 Chegsa.....................................0
1
Loss
1
0
0
0
1
1
1
Loss
1
0
1
1
0
1
Loss
0
1
0
2
0
0
Hockey squad shows offense in opening week
The Camegie-Mellon field hockey team 
managed to score a mere six goals all of last 
season, but, after three games this year, 
they have already eclipsed that mark. After 
a slow start in their opener, the offense has 
the Tartans to a record of 1-1-1 after two 
weeks of play in the Pennwood West 
Conference.
In years past, Indiana Universtiy of Pen
nsylvania had run circles around the Plaid, 
but this year the Tartans played them even 
through regulation time and, after two 
overtime periods, came home with a satisf
ying 1-1 tie. Junior sweeper Elaine Andrysick scored the lone Tartan goal when she 
brought the ball the length of the field in 
the second half. Alex Allen and Suzie 
Reynhout played excellently on defense to 
help hold IUP to just one goal.
Pennwood West Conference play 
opened last Tuesday with a heartbreaking 
loss to Bethany at home, 5-4. The lead 
changed hands often in the contest but,
after a scramble in front of the CMU net, 
Bethany scored with a minute to play to 
clinch the victory. Linda Harkless and 
Beth MacElwee led the rejuvinated offense, 
scoring two goals apiece.
Last Friday, the Tartans traveled south 
to play Washington 8c Jefferson and, this 
time, the offense and defense gelled. Alex 
Allen and Edna Kunkle led the defense as 
they kept the First Ladies out of the CMU 
end most of the day. Mary Rehak and Mar
ion Nimphius took care of the scoring as 
the Plaid won their first of the year, 3-1.
The reason for the Tartan turnaround is 
probably two fold. First, the new 4-3-2-1 
system brought in by first year coach Leesa 
DiBartola. Secondly, the team now practi
ces and plays on the football field instead 
of the postage stamp in front of Hunt 
Library.
CMU meets crosstown rival Chatham 
this afternoon and then travels to Bethany 
in action this week.
Anyone interested in a Kosher 
Food Service plan ON CAMPUS 
please contact Steve Smith 
578-4200 
Box 963 Donner
IRON CITY REGULAR 
IRON CITY LIGHT 
SCHLITZ 
BUO
SCHMIDTS
SCHMIDTS BOCK DARK 
CHAMPALE  WHITE 
OR PINK 
STROHS 
GENESEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHLITZ
BALLANTINE ALE 
MICHEL0B REGULAR 
MICHEL0B LIGHT 
PABST
PABST EXTRA LIGHT 
MILLER 
MILLER LIGHT 
COLT 45
GENESEE CREAM ALE 
WEIOEMAN
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak Subs
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM - 2 AM
QUARTS  MUGS PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 DIFFERENT DRAFT BEERS 
MILLER. MICHELOB. MOLSON ALE. HEINEKEN.
STROHS ANO SCHLITZ MALT 
One different 16 oz. 6 pk featured each week
SCHLITZ * PABST 
SCHLITZ MALT * STROHS 
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
* SPECIALTY ITEMS *
FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES-PIZZA SERVED TIL 4 AM 
HOT DOGS  CHOICE OF 12 DIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 
35 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES
Qnoinal
y ^ HOT DOG
IMPORTS
* BECKS LIGHT OR OARK 
Germany
* CARLSBURG MALT 
Oenmirk
* OORT HANSA Germiny
* HOFBRAU Germany
* FISCHCR GOLO France
* HOLSTEN LAGER Germany
* ST PAULI GIRL Germany
* SPATEN Germany
 RIGNES SPECIAL Norway 
' SWAN LAGER Australia
* BASS ALE England
* MAC KESON STOUT 
England
* LOWENBRAU LIGHT OR 
OARK Germany
WHITEBREAO PALE ALE 
England
PILSNER URQUELL
Czechoslovakia
RIGNES Norway
QOS EOUIS Mexico
PERONI Italy
GUINESS STOUT Ireland
GROLSCHE Holland
GOSSER Austria
SAN MIGUEL PlwHpmes
KIRIN Japan
MOLSON ALE Canada
KRAKUS Poland
HEINEKEN LT  OK Holland
FOSTER S LAGER AustraliaAND MANY OTHERS
SHOPS. INC 621-7388 or 621 -1185
3001 FORBES AV. (OAKLAND) PGH., PA. 15213
Suzie Reynhout (left) fights for the ball in CMVs match against Bethany. Her fine defensive play 
has helped the Tartans to their 1-1-1 record.
Read about one of Carnegie Techs 
most distinguished alumnus in this 
fascinating book of memoirs
WYOMING SCIENTIST
Horses to Spaceships 
Memoirs by Emerson M. Pugh
The settlement of the Western fron
tier and the growth of 20th-century 
technology are undoubtedly two of the 
most exciting chapters in American 
history. Emerson M Pugh not only 
witnessed both eras, but played a cru
cial role in the culmination of each 
As a young man in Evanston, WY 
Emerson Pugh worked on the railroad 
and highway surveying crews that 
opened the rugged Wyoming frontier 
and even enjoyed a stint as a pioneer 
banker. But. he could not 'emam in 
his beloved home state An innate 
interest in science led to s disting
uished career in education and electro
magnetic research-first, at the Cali
fornia Institute of Technology and. 
later, at Pittsburgh s Carnegie Tech
Student, banker, scientist, professor 
authorDr. Pugh recounts each phase 
of his multiv3ried life with simplicity 
and candor. Nostalgic, informative, 
WYOMING SCIENTIST is a fascinating 
book of memoirs."B. F Edmonds McCormick (SC) Messenger 
Illustrated with 28 photographs 
ISBN 0-682-49392-9 $15 00
WYOMING SCIENTIST iS available at
CARNEGIE MELLON BOOK STOWE Baker Mall Schenley Park Pittsburgh PA 15213 1412) 578 2966
An Eipoutton Pres* kook
\YV iVt I '  \ V

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanSeptember 30, 1980
Architecture in disarray
continued from page 14 
left the department. 5 faculty members 
have left because of conditions in the 
department since Sauers arrival, 4 left 
because of other interests, five were not 
rehired, one was fired, and there is one 
uncertainty. Four more are expected to 
leave at the end erf this year.
In mid - August, Gifford Pierce, Assist
ant Head for Academic Affairs, learned 
that his one year contract would not be 
renewed. Pierce had been told by Sauer 
that he was doing a good job and that 
Sauer would try to secure a three year 
contract and a raise for him. Approxi
mately three weeks later, Pierce was 
informed that his contract would not be 
renewed because of administrative 
restructuring.
James Rockar, former Level II Coordi
nator, is currendy on a leave of absence 
teaching at the University erf Miami at 
Ohio. Rockar who served as Assistant 
Head during the summer prior to Sauers 
arrival, decided to research his options out
side CMU. He discussed his prospects with 
Sauer and informed him that he would 
make no final decision about leaving 
before consulting with him. Without 
Rockars knowledge, Sauer telephoned the 
Department Head at Miami to inquire 
into Rockars plans and whether or not a 
contract had been signed. "This was an 
embarrassing situation for me, explains 
Rockar. According to Rockar, Miami was 
not sure if this was a ploy on his part to 
gain more contract leverage. Rockar has 
not yet decided if he will return to finish 
the two remaining years on his contract. 
Sauer declined to comment on this action.
Ame Larson, an eight year member erf 
the Architecture faculty, is currendy in the 
terminal year of a three year appointment 
Larson has served as Assistant Head for 
Student Counseling for 4 years. A faculty 
review committee recommended Larson 
be reappointed. However, there will be no 
further appointment for Larson, because 
he does not have a Masters Degree and 
does not fit Sauers criteria for 
appointment.
Gordon Ketter was unable to reach an 
agreement on a new contract for this year. 
After five years as an Adjunct Associate
Professor, Sauer offered Ketterer a position 
as a studio aide. Ketterer describes this 
as a non-academic tide. In addition to a 
ude with lowered status implications, Ket
terer was offered no increase in salary . Last 
year Ketterer was under the assumption 
that his current contract would be 
renewed. The contract he was working 
under was for one year. According to the 
Faculty Handbook, a one year contract is 
automatically renewed unless a review is 
conducted at least four months prior to 
the contracts termination. No such review 
took place. The conflict was taken before* 
the Faculty Senate, which ruled in his 
favor in late July. Ketterer, however, felt 
that this did not allow him enough time to 
prepare a fall studio. He also cites chaos 
in the administration, curriculum, and 
choosing erf new faculty, as factors in his 
decision to resign.
Curriculum changes
In addition to faculty shifts, controversy 
exists concerning key curriculum changes. 
The first of these is the removal of the 
Technology III program this fall. Tech
nology III is a fourth year, 24 unit, 2 semes
ter, course required for graduation. The 
course teaches heating, ventilation, air 
conditioning, advanced structures, and 
professional practice. These skills are 
essential for any practicing architect. The 
absence of this course is accredited to the 
administrations negligence in hiring a 
faculty member to teach the course. Tech
nology III was previously taught by Irving 
Oppenheim, who is on leave of absence to 
continue research in fire control. A one 
semester Technology III course is sche
duled for the spring.
After a number of years, the Architecture 
photography course was cancelled, and 
the darkroom was dismantled. Photo
graphy had always been a popular elective. 
Sauer explained that their were far tex> few 
students to teach the course.
The third major curriculum change is 
the cancellation of the Freshman Shop 
Project (Freshman Swim) as well as inde
pendant shop projects. These courses were 
cancelled by Raymond (Bud) Mall, Shop 
Director. Following a recommendation by 
the Senior Architecture faculty, Mall apj>
Volleyballers are 1-1
photo by Karen Schultz
Jennifer Castor returns the ball over two Duquesne blockers. The Tartans have a 1-1 overall record, 
1-0 in the PWC. They return to the floor in conference play Saturday at 1:00 against Robert Morris.
lied for an appointment as special 
faculty. Mall has been employed by the 
department as a staff member since 1973. 
The Senior faculty recommended that 
Mall request special faculty status in 
response to his highly respected job perfor
mance. The status dispute was never 
resolved betwwen Mall and the Architec
ture administration. During the summer, 
Sauer instructed Mall to build a darkroom. 
The darkroom construction was requested 
by Volker HartKopf, Associate Director of 
the Institute of Building Sciences, who 
was not aware that the dismanded dark
room ever existed, according to Mall.
Mall filed a grievance with the' Staff 
Grievance Council on the grounds that 
Sauers request was below the level of 
skill and is not commensurate with the 
duties and responsibilities oudined in his 
job description (August 20 memo of the 
Grievance Review Committee). In the 
past, Mall had served as a shop instructor, 
responsible for the evaluation of projects 
constructed in the shop. During the 
summer this responsibility was denied 
Mall by Sauer in accordance with a univer
sity policy stating that staff members are 
not permitted to evaluate student perfor
mance. On August 1st the Grievance 
Review Committee met and recommended 
an agreement be reached between Mall, 
Midani, and Sauer, regarding Malis 
duties, responsibilities, title rank, and rate 
of pay. (Aug 20 memo). Mall proclaims 
"either I am a resource or I am a heyboy. 
No agreement has been reached, which is 
the reason no shop projects exist this 
semester. At the September 24th meeting 
with students, Cyert expressed that the 
shop would continue to be run as in the
past until a satisfactory agreement can be 
reached. Mall has not yet been informed of 
Cyerts decision.
Since student organizers made public 
the events of the past few months, concern 
is spreading among the rest erf the depart
ment. Students have begun organizing 
within each design sequence level. Leaders 
are hopeful that the administration will 
respond respectfully to the questions 
raised.
Protectinjjoiiisdfaiainst is no trig tal.cancer
Itfs a regular part of living.
For millions of women, monthly breast self 
examination is routine But for many others, it isn't. 
Why? Because some women are afraid they might 
"find something."
If youre afraid remember that 80% of all 
breast lumps are not cancer ftur own fear is what 
you should be more concerned about Because it can 
prevent you from discovering cancer earty when it is 
most curable Bii more often. It simpty prevents you 
from having the peace of mind that comes from 
knowing youre alright.If checkup your breasts is not a regular part 
of living for you, contact your doctor or your local 
American Cancer Society Una for information
American Cancer Society
Baseball Club drops first
by Mike Seel
The CMU Baseball Club had its win
ning streak for the year snapped last Tues
day at Allegheny Communi ty 
College-South Campus, but not until after 
the Tartans had won their fifth and sixth 
straight games.
Victories five and six for the Plaid came 
as a result of consecutive shutout pitching 
performances by Ed Novak and Jamie Pattison. Novak kept St. Vincents off balance 
all afternoon, mixing his pitches 
extremely well. The result was a three hit
ter with ten strikeouts. Offensive support 
was provided by Mike Seel who had three 
hits. Max Homer drove home the winning 
run in the 3-0 Tartan victory.
The following afternoon at Mellon 
Park, the Tartans batded ACC-South 
Campus through nine scoreless innings 
before securing the victory' in the tenth. Joe 
Schwab doubled with one out and senior 
Jim Pepka drove him home with a single 
for the games only score. The pitching of 
Pattison dominated the game as he 
allowed only six hits while striking out 
twelve on his way to his third win of the 
season.
The Tartans winning streak was 
snapped when they travelled to ACC 
South for the return of the home and home 
series between the two schools. In striking
contrast to the first game of the series, both 
teams scored runs in bunches. ACC-South 
jumped off to a 7-0 lead after three innings 
as Ed Novak struggled with his control. 
Fighting back from this defecit, the Plaid 
picked up pail's of mns in the third and 
fourth to cut ACC-Souths lead to three at 
7-4. ACC-South rallied for five more runs 
in the sixth and Novak gave way to fresh
man Bob Haherty who was making his 
first appearance on the mound in a CMU 
uniform. Flaherty closed the door and the 
Tartans began their comeback attempt.
In the seventh, the Plaid pushed across 
five runs, the big blow coming on a three 
run home run by Mike Homer over the left 
field wall. The Tartans scored twice more 
in the eighth to pull within one, but, for 
the first time this year, there was no 
inning rally and the game ended with the 
Tartans losing 12-11 with the tying run on 
second base.
Bemie Lawrence broke out 
long batting slump to collect three hits in 
four trips to the plate in a losing cause. 
Novak was charged with his first loss to go 
along with three wins on the season. The 
Tartans record now stands at 6-1. They 
will wrap up their season this week as they 
play against Point Park, Penn StateMcKeesport and Beaver County Commun
ity College.

---------------------------------------------------

Events.
a.b.
/Thursday Film Arts
October 2
Blonde Venus starring Marlene Dietrich, 
Cary Grant. DH 2210 6,, 10 p.m. $1.00.
Friday Films
October 3
The Rose starring Bette Midler. DH 2210 6, 
8:30, 11 p.m. $1.00.
wrct
On Thursday this week WRCT will be broad
casting the CMU Jazz Ensemble live at 7:30. If 
jazz is your taste WRCTs weekly jazz shows 
include:
Milt OrkinThurs9-12 PM
Kevin KellySun12-3 PM
Ang.D.Sun3-6 PM
MikkiSun6-9 PM
Mike HerronSun9-12 PM
E&iSt&MMon
Due to technical problems CMUs Security 
Chief will be interviewed this Wednesday 
from 8-9 PM. Phone in questions will be 
welcome.
film
Pittsburgh Playhouse Film Repertory
September 30, tonight
The Mystery of Kaspar House starring Bruno 
M. A Wemer Herzog film. 7:30 and 9:30.
October 1
Robin and Marion starring Audrey Hepburn 
and Sean Connery. 7:30 and 9:30.
October 2
City Lights starring Charlie Chaplin. 7:30 and 
9:30.
October 3
A Little Romance starring Laurence Olivier. A 
George Roy Hill film. 7:30, 9:30 and 12:15.
October 4
2001: A Space Odyssey starring Keir Dullea. A 
Stanley Kubrick film. 7:30, 9:30 and 12:15.
October 5
Grand Hotel starring Greta Garbo and Joan 
Crawford. 7:30 and 9:30.
October 6
Amarcord. A Fellini film. 7:30 and 9:45.
music
October 2
CMU Jazz Ensemble
Directed by Randy Purcell. 7:30 in the 
Skibo Ballroom.
October 3
Black Sabbath and Blue Oyster Cult
This double - billing of hard rock will be 
presented at the Civic Arena this Friday 
night at 8. Tickets at the Civic Arena, Kaufmanns and all National Record Marts.
October 4 
Carly Simon
f
Simon tours in support of Came Upstairs. 
Shows are at 7 and 10:30 at the Stanley Thea
tre. Tickets are available at the Stanley, 
Kaufmanns and all National Record Marts.
theater
October 3-5
La Ventana and La Sylphicle
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatres opening pro
gram of the 1980-81 season. Friday and Sat
urday at 8, and Sunday at 2:30. 281-0360 for 
tickets and information.
Through October 12 
Deathtrap
At the Pittbsburgh Playhouse Theatre Cen
ter on Craft Ave. Thiirsday-Sunday night at 
8. Saturday and Sunday afternoon at 2:30. 
Ira Levins comedy thriller. 621-4445.
Through October 12 
Waiting for Godot
Metro Production at the Lion Walk Per
forming Arts Center. Directed by CMU Pro
fessor David Ball. Becketts classic. 683-3993.
Through October 26
Im Getting My Act Together...
Pittsburgh Public Theatre Production at the 
Allegheny Theatre, North Side. Off Broad
way musical sensation. Tuesday through 
Thursday at 8. Friday and Saturday at 8:30. 
Sunday at 2 and 7. 323-1900
art
October 4- 26 
Watfa Midani
The Pittsburgh Plan for Art (PPA) pre
sents Midanis new paintings and sculp
tures. PPA gallery is at 407 South Craig 
Street. Hours ate Tuesday - Saturday, 10-5 
and Sunday 1-5.
Carnegie Museum of Art
Through October 5
American Printmaking: 1900 -1975, Gallery 
10 #
Through November 2
Rachel McClelland Sutton, Paintings, 
Gallery D
You give so generously. And yet, you cant help wondering if 
youre helping all the people you can.
When you give through United Way, you support a wide range of 
human services. Needs and distribution of funds are reviewed by 
local volunteers. People like you, who visit agencies, go over 
budgets, check for duplication!
All to make sure your one Thanks bo you.
generous gift does all you it works,
want it to do. For all oF us.
United Way
A Public Service of This Magazine & The Advertising Council
Itfc hard to decide who needs
 i

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
classified#Typing- 75<7page. Fast accurate on new 
Smith-Corona, pica typeface. Resumes, 
research papers, dissertations, thesis. Deborah 
Payne, 687-4861, evenings.
BECOME A COLLEGE CAMPUS DEALER
SELL BRAND NAME AUDIO 8c VIDEO 
COMPONENTS LOW PRICES HIGH 
PROFITS
NO INVESTMENT NECESSARY FOR 
DETAILS
CONTACT: SOUTHERN ELECTRONICS 
DISTRIBUTORS
INC. 2125 MOUNTAIN INDUSTRIAL 
BLVD.
TUCKER, GA 30084. . . OR CALL TOLL 
FREE
800-241-6270 Ask for Mr. Leibowitz.
Female Roommate Wanted to share furnished
2 bedroom, 2 bath apartment in Shadyside. Liv
ing room, kitchen, wall to wall carpeting $200 
and elec. 362-7527.
Beautiful new RABBIT FUR jacket sale!
Never been wrorn. Excellent Shape! Small 
size ladies hooded jacket $69. Call 578-5944.
Cash: Wanted 10,000 wrecks-and junkers, 23 
hrs. 422-9968
Typing-experienced, freelance secretary, will 
type at home, resumes, thesis, correspondence, 
tables, etc. own IBM Se let trie II. 521-7888.
Juicere-Brand new and uncrated, ACME $105, 
Champion $150. 521-9555. 
Major airlines are now hiring for the following 
opportunities:
FLIGHT ATTENDANTS 
TICKET AGENTS 
RAMP 8c BAGGAGE PERSONNEL 
CUSTOMER SERVICE 
RESERVATIONS AGENTS 
CLERICAL POSITIONS
Individuals interested in applying with these 
airlines companies must be career oriented, 
have a public relations personality, be willing 
to travel if required, and be in good health. For 
further information on how to immediately 
apply direcdy with these major airlines com
panies, write to:
TRAVELEX, INC.
ATTN: AIRLINES APPLICATION 
INFORMATION 
3865 SOUTH WASATCH BLVD. SUITE 101 
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84109
Please indicate briefly your background, what 
airlines position(s) you are interested in apply
ing for and enclose a stamped, self-addressed 
envelope so that you may receive further infor
mation as to what steps to take so that possible 
interviews might be arranged by these airlines. 
All major airlines companies are EQUAL 
OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYERS.
Apartment for Rent Shadyside. Furnished 2 
bedrooms, 2 baths, living room, kitchen, wvv 
carpeting. Heat and gas paid $400 362-7527.
Addressers wanted immediately! Work at home
- no experience necessary - excellent pay. Write: 
Nadonal Service, 9041 Mansfield, Suite 2004, 
Shreveport, Louisiana 71118
TYPING. Term papers, letters, dissertations, 
etc. Call Shirley, 521-0534, before 9 PM if possi
ble.
JhIvct coins wanted. Highest prices in town no 
matter how small the quantity. After 5 PM call 
521-2749.
Want it done right? Typing, editing, profes
sionally prepared by a Ph.D 'paduate. Reports, 
manuscipts, theses, dissertations. Prompt, effi
cient, reasonable. IBM executive. Susan, 963- 
7558. Call after 4 PM.
PART-TIME help needed to bathe and brush 
dogs at the Pet Pad, 5432 Walnut St. within 
walking distance. Call 682-5105 or 521-1482.
club
2 Student Senate seats are vacant. 1CIT 
1CFA
Petitions are available at the Skibo information 
desk and should be returned there by 6:30 on 
Monday. October 6, 1980.
Here it is another football season and as usual 
the Tartans are stomping the opposition. It's
great to see the number of fans that come out to 
support the team. Tartan football is so exciting 
you just have tocheer them on. And speaking of 
cheering...
You can become a CMU Cheerleader. Tryouts 
are this week for anyone (that includes males). 
In fact the first practice is today at 5:30 PM at the 
gym. If you cant make it let us know youre 
interested by calling x4738 or x4895.
Cheering is great especially with a super team 
and loyal fans. Join us today. Rah!
ALL STUDENTS! The yearbook office wel
comes the submission of unique 5 x 7 b & w or 
color prints for possible publication. Call Chris 
x4065 or Sheila x4751.
Philosophy Club will hold an organizational 
meeting in the H&rSS Student Lounge (Baker 
254) on Tuesday evening, Sept. 30, immediately 
following Professor Wertheimers talk on 
Police Use of Deadly Force, which begins at 8 
PM in Baker 231. Everyone interested in join
ing the CMU Philosophy Club is invited. 
Refreshments will be served.
Forbes Street Gallery T-Shirts designed by 
Lori Galletti will be available to the public 
soon. For more information stop by the 
gallery at 2500 Forbes or call 578-2081.
YEARBOOKTHISTLE staff meedng, Wed. 
7:30 p.m., Room 46A All staff members must 
submit material for first deadline. 
YEARBOOK SALES CAMPAIGN starts next 
week. Watch for the signs...THISTLE Not 
once a year, hut Every Day!
CIA MEETING The Camegie-Mellon involve
ment association will hold a meeung for all 
those interested in the organization on Monday, 
October 6, at 10:00 PM in the Morewood Rec. 
Room. For more information call x4879.
The Students Dormitory Council meets every 
Wednesday night at 7 oclock in the Wherrett 
Room in Skibo. Everyone is er oyraged to 
attend and oarticipate.
Inter-Varsity Chrisdan Fellowship is spon
soring a multi-media presentation entitled 
Doors of Opportunity, dealing with 
Christian missions, Tuesday September 30 at 
7 PM, Room 45, Skibo. All Welcome.
The Kiltie Band has two mailing addresses 
now. If you need to contact us and/or need 
information, dont hesitate to send it 
through campus mail.
Kiltie Band 
Skibo information Desk 
Skibo
Kiltie Band 
Box 204 (CMU)
Pgh, PA 15213
official
PRESIDENT TO HAVE OPEN OFFICE 
HOURS FOR STUDENTS. President 
Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 and 5 p.m., in 
his office on Wednesday, October 8. Stu
dents who wish to meet with the president 
should telephone his office, 57*8-2200, to set 
up an appointment.
It is hoped that this program will be a 
benefit to both the president and the stu
dents in allowing direct contact with him.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of 
Humaniues 8c Social Sciences will have open 
office hours for students, Tuesday from 1:30 to 
3:30
The CIT Terminal room (HH 20) will be open 
from 9 AM-11 PM Mon.-Thur. 9 AM-6 PM 
Fri.-Sat. 12 PM-11 PM Sunday as of Sept. 22,
1980. The facility currently maintains 6 video 
terminals on Tops C and 4 Dec writers on Tops 
D. For more information call x3500.
LOST PERSONAL ITEMS are often 
turned in to Campus Police, BH 155. Bicy
cles, calculators, wallets (some with ID, 
cash, credit cards), jewelry, clothing, art 
supplies, and umbrellas are among the items 
found. Campus Police requests that students 
recover their belongings.
. JOIN US AT LUNCH in the Kiltie Cafete
ria on Wednesdays at Noon! The Department 
of Engineenng and Public Policy invites inter
ested CIT Freshmen and EPP students to join 
us at a reserved lunch table with your lunch 
every Wednesday to meet EPP faculty and staff. 
BE THERE!
The Pre-Law Advisor on Campus is Thomas 
M. Kerr, Associate Professor of Industrial 
Administration and Law, Room 206, GSIA, 
Extension 2295. He is a lawyer. Information 
about law school applications and admission 
can be obtained from him. He has pre-law 
information for minority students respecting 
some financial aid which may be available to 
them. Also, he has available publications 
respecting law educational opportunities for 
women and information about women practic
ing law.
general
A six week, non-credit class dealing with
Death and Dying will begin Wednesday 
evening October 8 at 7:30 at the Lutheran 
University Center, 4515 Forbes Ave. It will 
meet every Wednesday evening for a total of 
six weeks immediately following worship 
services. Any questions should be addressed 
to Pastor Paul Sampsell st 682-6886.
Violinist Alan Grishman and pianist Yee-ha 
Chiu will present an evening of sonatas on 
Sunday evening, October 5, at 8, in the 
Duquesne University School of Music Recital 
Hall. The program includes Beethovens 
Sonata in D, Op. 12, No. 1, Debussys Sonata in 
G Minor, and the Sonata in E Flat by Richard 
Strauss. The public is invited without charge. 
Grishman is chairman of the Duquesne Uni
versity string department and conductor of the 
Duquesne String Orchestra. At the Marlboro 
Music Fesuval he formed the Grishman-Ryce 
Duo which toured throughout Europe, the Far 
East, and the United States. He is presently first 
violinist of the New Engalnd-based Windsor 
String Quartet.
Pianist Chiu, also on the faculty at Duquesne, 
is frequently heard in solo and chamber music 
recitals as well as concerto performances in this 
country, Europe, and the Far East. Grishman 
and Chiu will appear in recitals this season in 
New York, New England, and Michigan. 
Holy Spirit Gathering Oct. 7,8,9 7:30 PM in 
Skibo Ballroom, Carnegie-Mellon Univ. A 
time of singing, worship, spirit filled praise and 
teaching from Gods word. Emphasis will be 
on recieving the baptism of the Holy Spirit. 
Special singing Tues. nithtly by Tom 8c Cathy 
Hickling from WPLU, Wed night-The LangeNolle Trio, Thursday night-Dan Scott. Guest 
speaker Dan Scott. Admission Free. Sponsored 
by Oakland Apostolic Church.
DEADLY FORCE. Professor Wertheimer of 
the Philosophy Program and former Deputy 
Sheriff will talk on the Police Use of Deadly 
Force in Bilker 231 at 8 PM tonight. Every one is 
w'elcome to attend.
Am I a Conscientious Objector? will be
discussed Sunday morning, October 5 at 9:15 
at the Lutheran University Center, 4515 
Forbes Ave. 682-6886
NICARAGUA TODAY. An Eyewitness 
Report. Slide show and presentation by 
members of the Pittsburgh delegauon that 
toured Nicaragua this summer.Wednesday 
October 1 at 8:00 PM, Forbes Quad, Room 
1P56, Pitt Campus. Free. SponsorPitt Nica
ragua Solidarity Committee.
The Board of Directors and students of the 
Lutheran University Center will share 
dinner at the LUC, Wednesday October 1 at 
6 PM. For reservarions, call 682-6886.
Flea Market at University of Pittsburgh Stu
dent Union, Thursday and Friday October 2 
and 3, 10AM6PM. Crafts, collectibles, clo
thing, food, plants, used books for sale to 
benefit Pitt/Oakland YMCAs community 
services program.
Celebrate Word and Sacrament Sunday 
mornings at 10:30 AM at the Lutheran Uni
versity Center Chapel, 4515 Forbes Ave, or at 
Heinz Chapel at 6:30 PM.
scholarship
Plastics Industry Announces scholarship 
awards competition. College and University 
students may win up to $1,000 in Scholar
ship Awards by coming up with an original 
and practical idea based on the use of polys
tyrene foam. The Fourth Annual EPS Scho
larship Awards Competition, sponsored by 
the Expanded Polystyrene Division of The 
Society of the Plastics Industry, challenges 
inventive minds to design workable, worth
while new products using expanded polys
tyrene as an important element.
A broc hure describing the contest require
ments, and including a preliminary entry 
form, is available by writing to: The Society 
of the Plastics Industry, 3150 Des Plaines 
Avenue, Des Plains, IL 60018.
Natural World Photography Contest offers 
cash prizes. For the fourth consecutive year, 
Carnegie Museum of Natural History will 
sponsor the Natural World Photo Contest. 
This year, for the first time, the contest will 
be co-sponsored by The Darkroom, Inc.
For more information and entry forms, 
please call 622-3283 or write Photo Contest, 
Section of Education, Carnegie Museum of 
Natural History, 4400 Forbes Ave., Pgh., 
PA, 15213.
Concours 1980. Offering $200 in cash and 
book prizes and free printing for all accepted 
poems in the ACP Anthology, will again be 
of special interest to all collegiate poets as it 
provides for them a source of inspiration 
and encouragement and a unique, intercol
legiate outlet for their literary ambitions. 
The forthcoming ACP Anthology will be 
the 11th edition since it was first published 
in 1975.
For more information contact the English 
Dept.
A $1,000 grand prize will be awarded in the 
poetry competition sponsored by the WTorld 
of Poetry, a quarterly newsletter for poets.
Poems of all styles and on any subject are 
eligible to compete for the grand prize or for 
49 other cash or merchandise awards.
Rules and official entry forms are availa
ble from World of Poetry, 2431 Stockton 
Blvd., Dept. N, Sacramento, California 
95817.
The Deutscher Akademischer Austauschdienst( German Academic Exchange Service) 
offers scholarships to US students for
 8-week-GermanCourses at Goethe Insti
tutes in the Federal Republic of Germany dur
ing summer 1981;
 3-week-Summer-Courses at German univer
sities in the field of German Studies;
 Short Term Study and Research in con
nection with a doctoral dissertadon (2-6 
months).
DAAD also offers grants for faculty members 
for Study Visits up to 3 months to the Federal 
Republic of Germany.9
For further information on all DAAD pro
grams please contact:
Deutscher Akademischer Austauschdierist 
535 Fifth Avenue, Suite 1107 
New York, NY 10017 Tel. "(212) 599-0164
For further informauon on .DAADs graduate 
scholarship Study and Research please con
tact your Fulbright Program Advisor on 
campus. '
1980-81 BMI AWARDS OPEN-$ 15,000 TO BE 
GRANTED TO YOUNG COMPOSERS. A 
total of $15,000 is available to you composers in 
the 29th annual BMI Awards to Student Cbmposers competition sponsored by Broadcast 
Music, Inc., the worlds largest performing 
rights licensing organization. Entrants
must be under 26 years of age on December 31,
1980. No limitations are established as to instru
mentation, stylistic consideradons, or length of 
works submitted.
Students may enter no more than one composi
tion which need not have been composed dur
ing the year of entry.
The permanent chairman of the BMI judging 
panel is William Schuman* distinguished 
American composer and educator.
The 1980-81 competition closes February 16,
1981. Official rules and entry blanks are availa
ble from James G. Roy, Jr., Director, BMI 
Awards to Student Composers, Broadcast 
Music, Inc.,320 West 57th Street, New York, 
N.Y. 10019.
Classifieds are $2.00 for 1-20 words, 
$4.00 for 21-50 words, and $8.00 for 
over 50 words. They must be submit
ted by the Wednesday before publi
cation.
