The Tartan
IINSIDE
Theart nco iuuat dpg6s:tOft Ateeh: m:f,tsufDvA6slF nodpnn
FEATURES..................... Page 13
National Womens History Month and
skydiving with Glickstein
SPORTS............................. Page 24
Mens swimming wins PAC and basket
ball closes out season
CFA embroiled in controversy
Thome replaced; Thomas 
new music department head
Rv Cyig 94 0Cm0iC33C
Tartan News Editor
Music Department Head Joel Thome was 
replaced Thursday with associate professor 
Marilyn Thomas after students and faculty 
became dissatisfied with the direction in
l
M9t F6,t 6 stubh:uf.fefDv Dh 
r6f:D6f: DFt Ft6eDF hW DFt wtB
b6sDrt:D4k
N Ysh,huD Jhsw6:
which Thome was leading the department. Dr. 
Thomas will serve as acting head until a per* manent replacement can be found.
According to Provost Angel Jordan, Thome 
was asked to resign, but by press time he had 
not. Hired in July, Thome has a five-year 
tenured contract with the University.
Thome was unavailable for comment over 
the weekend.
Jordan said the replacement was necessary 
because The education of the students was 
I suffering. There is no question that the stu
dents were not happy and the faculty were not 
happy.
It was extremely important to make the 
move for the students, the faculty, the depart
ment, the college, and the University. We have 
a responsiblity to maintain the health of the 
department. It was the best possible outcome 
for the University, continued Jordan.
Junior piano major Chris Fecteau said Mr. 
Thome had good ideas for the department, but 
personal ambitions always seemed to come 
first. It was not anyones intention at first to 
have him fired, and I regret such a drastic 
measure became necessary. The last month 
has sapped a great deal of energy from every
one and I hope we can have a relatively quiet 
transition.
, When asked to specify the reasons why 
Thome was dismissed, Jordan said that Thome 
stressed avant-garde music rather than the
fundamentals.
Students and faculty members have been 
critical of Thomes allocation of music depart
ment resources. According to members of the 
faculty, Thome used department space for and 
overspent the budget on his contemporary 
music projects.
A composer and conductor, Thome was the 
founder and music director of the Orchestra of 
Our Time and World Sound. Several students 
have commented negatively on the money 
spent by Thome to bring World Sound to the 
University. A quintet, the five-year-old World 
Sound includes members from Venezuela, 
Japan, and the United States.
When asked about the departments budget, 
continued on page 5
Glass professor tenure denial 
prompts art student protest
Rv HymC Ai00Cy
Tartan Contributing Editor 
A Carnegie Mellon art professor has sparked 
an unusual controversy on the campus. Kath
leen Mulcahy, the schools only glass instruc
tor, was denied tenure last March, and some 
students believe it is a sign of worse to come 
for the sculpture major.
More than two dozen art students spent 
Wednesday morning and afternoon protesting 
on the lawn of the College of Fine Arts. Begin
ning at 6 am and continuing every half hour 
students would bang on two barrels suspended 
over the lawn, near a sign that read Requiem 
for Sculpture.
Others passed out leaflets outlining their 
fears about the future of the sculpture major,
namely that glass would not be offered after 
Mulcahy, who has taught glass at CMU for 11 
years, leaves.
Since October, CFA has conducted a search 
for a sculpture professor. The college had 
neither advertised specifically for a glass inMLha l6:SD Uttb 6wwf:O DFf:Ou 
*fDFhaD D6Uf:O uhrtDFf:O 
6*6v4k
N Hs4 9f:u6:w
structor, nor formally announced its position 
on the future of glass instruction. However, 
Wednesday morning, Dean of CFA Akram 
Midani issued a letter saying that glass instruc
tion would remain a part of the curriculum for 
the next four years, to be taught by the new 
sculpture professor. Midani could not be 
reached for comment on his decision.
Statistically, glass has never been a large 
component of the art department  between 
1979 and 1985, only six students received 
degrees in it. However, it is a widely used 
medium. According to Mulcahy, many stu
dents employ it in mixed media pieces, regard
less of their major area.
Glass is also an attractive feature of the 
department: One student said that CMU was 
(one of the few top art schools in the'country 
that taught glass as sculpture, not merely a 
craft, and that this was a major factor in her 
decision tocome to CMU. Mulcahy added that 
the glass facility here is really one of the best 
areas we have, especially in comparison with 
glass studios at other schools.
Glass was introduced to CMU in the early 
1970s: and, until three years ago, students 
could get a degree in glass, ceramics, small 
metals, fibers, or wood. This changed in 1985, 
when faculty members decided to stop giving 
degrees in these areas and instead offer a 
general sculpture major comprised of study in
continued on page 6
Faculty Senate drafts new research policy
Rv Cyig 94 0Cm0iC33C
j Tartan News Editor
After months of painstaking work, the Fac
ulty Senate adopted a policy on restricted 
esearch at its Feb. 25 meeting. If the policy is 
approved by President Richard Cyert and the 
Board of Trustees, restricted research would 
be limited to Mellon Institute and the Software 
Engineering Institute (SEI).
The definition of restricted research includes 
i both classifed and proprietary research. Clas
sified research is research controlled by the 
federal government for national security rea
sons. Proprietary research is research that 
results in data that is owned by corporations 
other than the University. A small amount of 
proprietary research is currently being con
ducted at Mellon Institute.
Some members of the faculty and admini
stration had begun to feel a tension between
the goal of a university to freely create and dis
seminate knowledge and the desire of some 
members of the University to participate in re
stricted research.
The introduction of the policy calls for clas
sified research to never represent more than a 
small fraction of the total research in any unit. 
According to Provost Angel Jordan, at present 
no classified research is being conducted at the 
University. Some members of the University 
do have access to classified data, which they 
use in their research, but none of the results 
that their research produces is classified.
Students are protected under the research 
policy. Students would not be allowed to do 
research if the publication of the results would 
be delayed. If students received restricted data 
from corporations, the corporation would be 
allowed 30 days to review the report to insure 
that the restricted data is not published.
Most contracts which students sign before 
conducting research which involves restricted
proprietary information already include these 
provisions. Under the policy, students may be 
employed by SEI and Mellon provided that 
such employment does not interfere with their 
progress toward a degree.
Faculty members who wish to conduct re
stricted research in cooperation with Mellon 
or SEI either on a consulting basis or by a 
formal, internal leave of absence.
According to chemistry professor Paul Ka
rol, the policy does not significantly change 
the way the University conducts research. One 
change will be that the University Research 
Council will work with the Faculty Senate to 
regulate the restricted research conducted on 
campus.
Student Senate discussed the policy at its 
March 1 meeting. President of Student Govemment Andy Robitshek broke a tie in a dead
locked Senate on March 1 and approved a 
resolution on the policy.
The orginal resolution, which was tabled the 
previous week, urged that no classified re
search be permitted anywhere at the Univer
sity. Senators spent nearly an hour debating 
the merits of restricted and classified research.
The original version of the resolution failed.
Under new business, the resolution was 
proposed with the change we urge classified 
research be restricted to the semi-autonomous 
units of the University. Semi-autonomous 
units at present are Mellon Institute and SEI.
President Robitshek. who was acting chair
man at the meeting, broke the tied by passing 
the resolution. Robitshek said of the resolu
tion, It needs to be said now. [The resolution! 
could be worded better.... but something needs 
to be said now.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanMarch 8,1988
Iran, Iraq fire missile 
exchange in capitals
NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP)  Iran and Iraq said 
they fired more missiles into each others 
capitals early Thursday in a four-day-old duel, 
and Iran said six people were wounded when 
one missile hit a hospital in Tehran.
Baghdads official Iraqi News Agency, 
monitored in Nicosia, said Iraq lobbed two 
surface-to-surface missiles into Tehran soon 
after dawn.
It said another missile was fired into the holy 
city of Qom, the cradle of Irans Islamic revo
lution south of Tehran, around daybreak, 
Moslem prayer time. The agency, quoting 
military communiques, claimed all the mis
siles destroyed their targets accurately, but 
did not say what the targets were.
That raised to 24 the number of missiles the 
Iraqis claim to have fired since Tuesday into 
the Iranian capital, which has a population of
6 million.
Iraq said it has fired three missiles into Qom 
since Wednesday morning.
Tehrans official Islamic Republic News 
Agency, also monitored in Nicosia, said that 
Revolutionary Guards fired a missile into 
Baghdad early Thursday, the ninth reported 
since Monday.
S. African police arrest 
Archbishop Tutu
CAPE TOWN, South Africa (AP)  Police 
arrested Anglican Archbishop Desmond Tutu 
and other church leaders as they marched 
toward Parliament with a petition protesting 
the governments crackdown on anti-apart
heid groups last Tuesday.
The clergymen, wearing robes and crosses 
around their necks, stood with arms linked and 
Bibles clutched in their hands as a policeman 
announced through a bullhorn that the gather
ing was illegal. Police had been lining the 
street outside St. Georges Anglican Cathe
dral, waiting for the marchers to emerge.
After Tutu, a Nobel Peace Prize laureate, and 
other clergymen were placed in police ve
hicles, police fired water cannons at more than 
100 demonstrators sitting on the sidewalk 
singing a hymn, local journalists said.
The clergymen and demonstrators were 
taken to a police station and released with a 
warning that charges would be brought against 
them if they staged a similar protest, said the 
Rev. Allan Boesak, president of the World 
Alliance of Reformed Churches. He said they
were told summons might be issued against 
them for demonstrating near Parliament and 
they might be called to court.
Police also took some journalists into cus
tody.
NATO demands USSR 
cut conventional forces
BRUSSELS (AP)  The 16 NATO nations 
demanded that Moscow accept sweeping cuts 
in its conventional forces at a new set of arms 
control talks due to begin later this year.
At their first full-scale summit meeting since 
1982, U.S. President Reagan and leaders of the 
other 15 NATO nations said Moscows con
ventional forces cast a shadow over Europe. 
They issued a statement demanding the 
Moscow-led Warsaw Pact make highly 
asymmetrical reductions in its conventional 
forces.
While taking a tough line on conventional 
arms, the leaders showed less sign of unity on 
the need to modernize U.S. nuclear weapons 
remaining in Europe in the wake of the De
cember superpower deal to remove their 
medium-range, ground-launched nuclear 
missiles.
Britain and the U.S. want the alliance to 
recommit itself to modernizing the nuclear 
missiles that reach up to 310 miles. But West 
Germany resists this, arguing such a move will 
make its soil, where most of the short-range 
missiles are based, a prime target for a nuclear 
attack. Denmark and France also have ex
pressed some reservations.
It was expected the summit would produce a 
compromise statement on the modernization 
issue Friday.
U.S. opposes loan for 
Mexico steel industry
WASHINGTON (DJ)  The World Bank 
approved a $400 million loan to Mexico to 
help finance a restructuring of the Mexican 
steel industry.
At a meeting of World Bank executive direc
tors, the U.S. opposed approval of the loan and 
voted against it.
World Bank officials said the loan would 
assist Mexico in modernization of its steel in
dustry and the closing down of inefficient 
steel-making facilities. The total cost of the 
Mexican steel industry restructuring program 
was estimated at about $1 billion.
While the U.S. had supported the proposed 
loan to Mexico in earlier discussions with 
World Bank officials, U.S. Treasury Secretary 
James Baker was pressured by Sen. John 
Heinz, R-Pa., and other members of Congress 
to oppose approval of the World Bank loan on 
grounds that it would increase competition for 
U.S. steelmakers.
At the World Bank board meeting Friday,
U.S. Executive Director Robert Keating said 
only that he had been instructed to oppose the 
loan, according to participants in the meeting.
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center 268- 2922 
After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator will help you reach the staff
member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh............................................................................ 782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive listening
Drug Connection.................................................................................... 854-0700
An alcohol drug crisis hotline, 5 - 9 pm
Tel-Aid......................................................................................................... 281-4664
A Series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safety issues. 
Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh telephone director^
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs 
Morewood Gardens - E Tower
Car bomb found near 
Shultzs hotel in Israel
JERUSALEM (AP)  A car bomb was dis
covered Friday about 300 yards from U.S. 
Secretary of State George Shultzs hotel. Po
lice said the explosives were dismantled 
safely.
The car had been driven into a wall and 
abandoned. A passing officer thought the 
vehicle looked suspicious and discovered the 
bomb, Jerusalem police commander Yosef 
Yehudai said.
A U.S. Embassy spokeswoman said the car
bomb was nowhere near the route Shultz was 
scheduled to travel today between the hotel 
and Israeli government offices.
It was not clear if the driver was on his way 
elsewhere and was prevented from reaching 
his target by the accident, or ran the car into the 
wall intentionally. It was also unclear when 
the bomb was to have gone off.
No arrests were reported.
Noriega may face U.S. 
economic sanctions
BRUSSELS, Belgium (AP)  Secretary of 
State George P. Shultz said Thursday that 
Panamian strongman Manuel Antonio Nori
ega is bad news and that economic sanctions 
against his six-day-old government were 
being considered carefully.
But Shultz said no decision had been made.
Assistant Secretary of State Elliott Abrams 
had raised the prospect in Washington 
Wednesday that the next payment due to 
Panama for Panama Canal operations would 
be withheld if such a request were made by 
ousted President Eric Arturo Delvalle.
Delvalle was removed by the National As
sembly after he tried to fire Noriega. The 
United States has supported Delvalle, who has 
been in hiding.
State Department deputy spokeswoman 
Phyllis Oakley said that the request had al
ready been received.
At a news conference Thursday in Brussels 
following the conclusion of the NATO sum
mit, Shultz said, Noriega is bad news for Pan
ama, hes bad news for the region.
He said there were a variety of things the 
United States could do, including restricting 
the flow of money into the Panamanian treas
ury.
That is being considered carefully, he said. 
We want to do it properly...we want to do it 
effectively.
President Reagan, however, plans no steps 
to penalize Panama economically beyond 
measures already taken, said Ann Wrobleski, 
a state department official responsible for 
narcotics matters.
Reagan will wait and see if Panamas 
military-dominated government improves its 
cooperation before deciding on additional 
sanctions, she said.
Under law, Reagan is required to suspend all 
economic and military aid to countries found 
not to be cooperating in U.S. Drug Enforce
ment efforts. Wrobleski noted that all such aid 
to Panama was suspended in 1987.
Such a finding also requires the U.S. to vote 
against loan requests by the offending country 
in international lending institutions. Wroble
ski said the U.S. has been abstaining on 
Panamas requests for some time and that, in 
any case, Panama has no loan applications 
pending.
Wrobleski raised the possibility that the 
administration may increase tariffs on Pana
manian products if that countrys attitude on 
drug-smuggling does not improve.
Pittsburgh welcomes 
prince amid rain, snow
PITTSBURGH  Cold rain and snow put a 
damper on Prince Charles visit Friday.
You know, I go all around the world and 
more often than not people say, you should 
have been here yesterday, he joked to public 
officials.
Serving as honorary chairman of the Remak-^ 
ing Cities Conference, the prince, an advocate 
for inner-city renewal, gave a closing address 
Saturday on his impressions of Pittsburgh and 
the Mon Valley.
A visit that began a half-hour late because of 
flight delays moved smoothly in foggy, Eng
lish weather through Downtown and the Mon 
Valley. Two protesters were arrested in 
Homestead for minor disturbances.
When he got out of the car, he sort of apoligized for the weather, Mayor Caliguiri said. 
He described Charles as a very personable 
young gentleman and very easy to talk to.
Pt*u RsftWu 6bbt6s lhasDtuv 
hW Hh* Jh:tuo i:l4
Victor Brailovsky
from the University of Tel Aviv, a refusnik of 
17 years, will be visiting Pittsburgh during a 
tour organized by the Committee of Con
cerned Scientists. He will talk on:
CMUounsel igeUs&en&n es 
&SU itdeU& Dsetsv
Wednesday, March 16, 4pm 
Masters Auditorium, GSIA

---------------------------------------------------

February 23,1988The TartanPage 3
Paul Simon campaigns on campus
Rv JEP-3I-P 0CTL
Tartan Staffwriter 
On Sunday, Illinois Senator and Demo
cratic presidential candidate Paul Simon 
visited Carnegie Mellon. Simon met with 
local politicians and gave a press conferance before speaking and answering ques
tions in the Ballroom for nearly an hour.
Simon dealt with a wide range of issues 
including South Africa, a balanced federal 
budget, agriculture, and defense. He gave 
particular emphasis to issues such as un
employment and education.
On the subject of education, Simon listed 
five areas that he would act on as president. 
He mentioned first the need to decrease 
adult illiteracy, saying that No other 
major industrial nation tolerates the level 
of adult illiteracy that we do.
Simons second and third points dealt 
with the need to decrease high school 
dropout rates, particularly among minori
ties. In particular, Simon said studies show 
that intensified pre-school education pro
grams decrease rates of high school drop
out, teenage pregnancy and crime.
Simon also proposed changes relating to 
college education. He said that as presi
dent he would shift student aid from an em
phasis on loans to an emphasis on grants. 
Simons objection to loans is that they still
cost the government a lot of money and 
they put pressure on students to enter high 
paying fields so they can repay the loans.
Simon criticized the Reagan admin
istrations 1986 tax reform bill (which 
Simon voted against) saying One of the 
things we do in this so called reform is we 
tax [graduate] students [on stipends] 
while at the same time we said to the 
wealthiest of Americans your taxes are 
reduced from 50 percent to 28 percent. 
Thats not what I call reform.
Simon has been struggling in the six 
presidential primaries and caucuses held 
so far, finishing no higher than second in 
any of them. Recently Simon decided not 
to campaign in the 20 primarily southern 
states participating in todays Super 
Tuesday elections. Simon said that I 
am just not going to go into the kind of 
debt that John Glenn and Gary Hart 
aquired four years ago  three to four 
million dollars in debt.
When asked why he was staying in the 
race at all Simon replied that he thinks he 
still can win, especially since he feels no 
candidate will go to the convention with 
enough delegates to win the nomination. 
He said that Im not likely to be in first 
place in numbers of delegates but I think 
Im in as good a position as anyone.
Student Senate amends fiscal policy on buggy funding
Rv CTiP YECgiP1
Tartan Staffwriter 
Student Senate voted to amend the fiscal 
policy on funding buggy organizations at its 
last meeting in February. Several members of 
sweepstakes clubs joined the audience at the 
meeting to debate the issue.
Senator Charles Jainchill motioned to amend 
the fiscal policy. His amendment would set 
aside a portion of the activities fee each spring. 
This money would be used to support organi
zations who request funding for entering 
Sweepstakes.
The funds reserved for each buggy organiza
tion would be made according to need. Fund
ing would only cover operational expenses, 
improvements and repair and maintenance for 
buggies. More importantly, the amendment 
stated, no new buggies may be purchased 
using activities fee funds.
There are only four clubs receiving sweep
stakes funds currently. They are Spirit, Pio
neers, Carnegie Involvement Association and
Fringe.
Vidal Graupera supported the motion This 
doesnt mean that these organizations wont 
be competitive or that they can't have new 
buggies, in fact, Im sure that they all will have 
new buggies.
Almost immediately Senator Glenn 
Kombrek proposed an amendment to the 
amendment. The amended version would dif
fer in that it would allow for funding of new 
buggies, as Kombrek stated.
The only financial requirement for an or
ganization to get this funding is that it provide 
10 percent of the money needed for the new 
buggy. Jainchill argued that the 10 percent is 
very nominal and doesnt show much commit
ment.
A member of the audience explained that the 
first amendment imposed fraternity-like 
rules on the independents. He argued that 
people shouldnt be discriminated against if 
they dont want to join a Greek organizationcontinued on page 7
Chomsky bashes U.S. foreign 
policy in Central America
Rv gIyi8 LEmP1
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Noted MIT professor and author Noam 
Chomsky presented a speech critical of 
American foreign policy titled Central 
America: The Next Phase in a packed Porter 
Hall 100 on Wednesday, Feb. 24.
Chomsky, an eminent linguist recognized 
widely for his advancement of the grammati
cal system known as transformational, or 
generative, grammar, is also a political ob
server and social critic, advocates New Left 
political views, and was an early opposer of 
the Vietnam War.
According to Chomsky, the United States is 
entering a new phase in the long war in 
Central America thats been going on for 
about six years or so. He condemned the 
United States government for its disrespect of 
the Central American Peace Plan. The ac
cords that were agreed upon by all the Central
American presidents were demolished. 
Specifically, Chomsky referred to U.S. sup
ply flights to the Contra rebels in Nicaragua. 
One condition [of the peace accords] was the 
termination of any foreign aid, military, physi
cal, or financial, to the Contras.
In reference to the Nicaraguan Contra Reb
els, Chomsky said, Its understood anywhere 
outside the U.S. that the Contras are not guer
illas. They are a foreign implant. The Contras 
would disappear if they were not maintained 
by foreign power.
Chomsky also believes that the idea of 
imminent democratization in Central America 
is absurd. Democratization in Central Amer
ica would require a total modification of their 
internal structure. Theres no doubt in 
anybodys mind that these are military-run 
countries. Theres at least one political assas
sination a day in that region.continued on page 6
Freshmen engineering applications are down
Rv g-y0E8 2y-PgE
Tartan Staffwriter
As of February 1, freshman applications had 
outpaced last years record in all colleges
* except for the Carnegie Institute of Technol
ogy (CIT).
The Office of Admissions had received only 
1598 applications for the CIT by February 1. 
In 1987, which was the all time high for 
applications to all the colleges, the admissions 
office had received 1739 CIT applications in 
the same period.
The decline in the number of applicants in 
field of engineering is not unique to Carnegie 
Mellon. According to Director of Admissions 
Michael Steidel, technical schools such as 
MIT, Cornell, Lehigh, and Renessler Poly
technic Institute show a drop in the number of 
engineering applicants for the 1988 academic 
year as compared to previous years.
The January 26 edition of College Marketing 
Alert, a bi-monthly report aimed at alerting 
*tolleges of trends in student interests, offers 
one possible explanation. The report states 
that interest in the engineering and technology 
fields is down. In 1987, 8.5 percent of fresh
men expressed an interest in entering the field 
of engineering, down from the peak of 12 
percent reached in 1982.
The 8 percent drop in applications for CIT 
was in no way mirrored by the four other
colleges.
For example, the College of Fine Arts 
showed about an 11 percent increase in appli
cations received. In 1987, 1052 applications 
had been received, while this year 1175 were 
received.
Mellon College of Science freshman appli
cations were up 13 percent from last year. In
1987, 688 people applied. This year 779 ap
plied.
Humanities and Social Sciences posted a 19 
percent gain. Last years applications totaled 
689 by February 1; there were 824 this year.
The largest percentage gain was shown by 
Industrial Management. This school had a 
staggering 61 percent increase in its freshmen 
applications. The number jumped from 173 
last year to 280 this year.
Steidel believes that by February 1 Admis
sions had received 67 percent of its total appli
cations. If this projection is correct, the overall 
number of applications will be around 6950.
Last year's record number of applications 
was 6759.
Projections of high school graduates show a 
decline begining in 1988 and continuing 
through 1992. This decline could have an 
effect on the number of college applicants in 
these years.
Steidel expressed some concern especially 
since the northeast region of the United States
is projected to have the sharpest drop in high 
school graduates.
The Northeast currently accounts for about 
60 percent of the students here. CMU is, 
however, acquiring more of a national reputa
tion. The percentage of students from the
northeast has declined; in 1978, 80 percent 
came from this region.
This drop is in part due to more active admis
sions recruiting elsewhere. Seventeen states 
had admissions programs in 1978; today 43 
states are included in these programs.
Freshman applications received by February 1
0 500 1000 1500 2000
source: Office of Admissions ,y ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------y

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanMarch 8,1988
CMU frat-raiders target 
East Liberty gay nightclub
R, AigI-C0 2y-P7iPi G
AigI-C0 9i3RyEg
Special to The Tartan
In the early hours of Sunday, February 14, 
the gay and lesbian nightclub Travelers in East 
Liberty was raided by a task force similar to 
the one which raided two CMU fraternities last 
semester. According to witnesses, police were 
physically and verbally abusive in the recent 
raid. Four club patrons were severely beaten, 
and two were hospitalized with head injuries.
At least two agents present at the CMU raid 
participated in the more recent raid. Kevin 
Mellot, the Assistant City Fire Chief, and 
Thomas Cangey, an agent for the state police 
Bureau of Liquor Control Enforcement, took 
part in both raids.
According to a Pittsburgh Post Gazette ar
ticle, Mellot described the 4:30 am raid as no 
more than a legal building inspection. He 
explained that it seems real logical that these 
raids should be conducted at night, when the 
clubs are in use. Witnesses at the Travelers 
raid say that Mellot was leading the group of 
18 officers on the raid.
Five people were arrested during the raid, all 
on charges of resisting arrest, simple assault, 
and obstructing justice. These five included 
the four who were allegedly beaten and one 
who was also charged with the possession of 
marijuana. In a preliminary hearing on Febru
ary 24, all five accepted a plea-bargain agree
ment in which they surrendered their right to 
sue city police, fire officials, or the city in 
exchange for reduced charges. They pleaded 
no contest to a reduced charge of disorderly 
conduct, which carried a fine of $100.
The events of the raid have prompted a tre
mendous outcry from Pittsburghs gay and 
lesbian community. Ten days after the raid, on 
the day of the preliminary hearing, nearly 200 
protesters, including many Carnegie Mellon 
students, gathered in front of the City/County 
building. The lesbian and gay rights group 
CRY OUT! organized the march. David Ste
wart, a member of the group, said we believe 
the raid was simply a pretext for harassing the 
lesbian and gay community. According to 
Stewart, state police knocked people down 
steps, called them faggots and beat them 
with nightsticks and blackjacks.
CRY OUT! has organized several other ac
tions in protest of the raid. About 600 letters 
demanding an investigation were sent to state 
and city officials. The group has filed a peti
tion for a public hearing before city council. 
According to Sophie Masloff, head of City 
Council, the hearing will take place in April.
Two civil rights attorneys in Pittsburgh have 
initiated class action suits on behalf of the club 
patrons. Although the four who were beaten 
and arrested gave up their right to sue city 
officials, they are expected to testify in the 
case against the city. They have retained their 
right to sue state police. Witnesses say that the 
individuals who assaulted the patrons had 
identified themselves as state police.
According to Stewart, CRY OUT! and the 
plaintiffs in the suit will pursue their battle 
against the officials responsible for the raid. 
He added that the legal action taken by CMU 
after the fraternities raid and the new suit may 
reduce the potential for agencies to band to
gether.
Sponsored by the Counseling & Student Development Center and Student Affairs
EB
3Ft J6lUuh: 2f,to ubh:uhstw .v 6bb6 8fOr6o *tst DFt WfsuD be6lt *f::tsu f: 
2sfw6vSu yhlUK6K0fUt lhrbtDfh:4 3Ft utlh:w be6lt 6fs .6:w *6u 3FtD6 fSu 8attVt4 
3Ft DFfsw be6lt .6:wo uf:Of:O MJhF::v ?ok *6u 3Ft gs6Vv nSu4
Award founder dies
William H. Ryan (E24), who with his wife 
Frances established Carnegie Mellons annual 
award for teaching excellence, died early last 
month in a traffic accident in California. He 
was 87 years old.
The Ryans created the award in 1960 to 
highlight what they felt was the central impor
tance of effective teaching. For many years the 
award was open only to faculty in the 
universitys undergraduate colleges. Later it 
was expanded to include faculty from SUPA 
and GSIA. The recipient of the Ryan Award is 
recommended to the president by a selection 
committee and announced at the fall meeting
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING 
Sun.-Thrus. 7-10 pm
in traffic accident
CALCULUS 
PHYSICS 
CHEMISTRY 
ECONOMICS 
ACADEMIC WRITING 
INTRO. TO COMPUTING
PH 107-A 
PH 107- B 
PH 126-A 
PH 126-B 
PH 126-C 
WeH 5409
of the faculty.
The first recipient of the Ryan Teaching 
Award was A. Fred Sochatoff of the Depart
ment of English. Winners in the 1960s who are 
still teaching at the university include Edwin 
Fenton, Hugh Young, Robert Rothfus, and 
Beekman Cottrell.
As an alumnus, Ryan was a loyal friend and ^ 
supporter of the university. In October 1987 he 
received an Alumni Service Award. The cita
tion accompanying the award read: If there is 
one thing that has impelled better teaching at 
Carnegie Mellon University, it is the Ryan 
Teaching Award!

---------------------------------------------------

March 8,1988The TartanPage 5
Physical Plant, others clarify circumstances of blackout
Rv g-y0E8 2y-PgE
Tartan Staffwriter
On Tuesday, March 1, Director of Cam
pus Operations Mike Corletti held an open 
meeting to discuss the power failure and to 
explain the failure of the backup which 
occurred on February 2.
Corletti had with him a group of physical 
plant, security, and safety personnel to dis
cuss their roles in the failure.
The discussion opened with Corletti re
viewing the events of the power failure  
the switch gear fire and subsequent failure 
of the emergency backup generator to sup
ply power.
The failure of the backup power forced 
many people to exit rooms and corridors in 
the dark.
Physical Plant Electrical Foreman 
George Jones, explained that the monthly 
maintenance check, which only checked 
the backup generator, has been enhanced to 
include a simulated power failure.
The new monthly maintenance check, 
that simulates a power failure, does not turn 
campus power off, instead, it simply cuts 
the power to the backup system in order to 
see how it responds.
In the 1970s, many emergency lights 
were disconnected in an energy conserva
tion effort. Jones blamed this for the power 
quality of the lighting once emergency 
power was restored, and has stated that all 
those emergency lights which were discon
nected have again been made operational.
It has also been found that some buildings
have absolutely no emergency lighting. 
Mellon Institute, which is one such build
ing, has two floors which are completely 
below street level. The lack of emergency 
lighting could make evacuation difficult or 
even impossible. Mike Corletti asserted 
that efforts are being taken to remedy the 
situation.
Responding to a suggestion recommend
ing the use batteries to power emergency 
lighting, Physical Plant Electrician Tom 
Kelly stated that battery backups are not 
completely reliable.
When questioned whether the leak, which 
caused the power failure, was related to the 
ones that have caused numerous floods in 
the library, manager of Buildings and 
Grounds Bob Ezatoff stated that they were 
not related.
Another concern voiced by those present 
was the use of PCBs on campus. Corletti 
asserted that the power failure in no way 
exposed members of the campus commu
nity to these chemicals.
According to Corletti, the PCBs, which 
are used to lubricate the transformers,will 
be removed by 1992.
The whole emergency evacuation system 
was questioned. Director of Environmental 
Health and Safety Peter Collopy confessed 
that CMU does not at present have a good 
evacuation procedure. He stated that due to 
numerous false alarms and false fire alarms 
students and faculty have become compla
cent. Collins is currently working on a new 
evacuation procedure for the University.
Computer Scientists 
and Engineers:
we can offer you 
the job of Wizard, 
Evangelist or Champion.
Do we actually have people with these titles on their 
business cards? Absolutely. 
Were bound to an ambitious vision of computer 
technology, not to the ritual behavior that governs so 
much of corporate America. 
Come share our vision. Well be on campus to dis
cuss employment opportunities:
Friday, March 18th 
For more information, 
contact your Placement Center.
An equal opportunity employer
ThepowertobeyourbesE
1988 Apple Computer, Inc Apple and the Apple logo are registered trade marks of Apple Computer. Inc.
Capital Campaign expects to have 
raised $112 million by June
Rv Cyig 94 0Cm0iC33C
Tartan News Editor
Carnegie Mellons capital campaign, now in 
its second year, is expected to have collected 
$112 million of its $200 million goal by the 
end of the fiscal year. The five-year campaign 
is already the most successful capital cam
paign in CMUs history.
The success of the campaign, however, has 
been lopsided. Money for academic programs 
has been easier to raise than funds for capital 
improvements, which will be crucial to the 
construction of the new university center.
ent school than now exists. To many, Carnegie 
Mellon is still a regional school with no quality 
of life problems. In particular, alumni from the 
early 1960s remember Skibo as a new build
ing.
Many alumni are not aware of the growth that 
Carnegie Mellon has experienced in recent 
years. Says Dalessandro, The first task is to 
make sure alumni understand what Carnegie 
Mellon is like today.
Also, in general, gifts for construction are 
harder to obtain than gifts for academic pur
poses. Dalessandro points out that gifts which
8tetlDtw g6bfD6e g6rb6fO: stuaeDu
o6
80
60
40
20
Restricted
Program
Support
Endowment
According to Assistant Vice President for 
Development David A. Dalessandro, four 
gifts specifically for the new center have been 
made. One gift from the Condron family, who 
are good friends of the University, has been 
designated for the new Tartan offices. A gift 
for WRCTs studios, a new lounge, and a 
classroom have also been received.
Unrestricted gifts will be used to finance the 
center, allowing Vice President for Develop
ment Alvin Brannick to assure that were 
going to get [the university center] done. The 
cost of the East Campus project and the center 
is expected to total $35 to 40 million. Brannick 
estimates that $8.2 million has been pledged 
for the various improvement projects.
Part of the problem with convincing alumni 
to donate toward the university center is that 
most of the 46,000 graduates to whom Devel
opment sends a newsletter remember a differ
Unrestricted Capital
Annual Improvements
Support
source: Development and Fund Raising
endow academic chairs are more appealing 
because of their longevity. While a building 
may last several decades, academic chairs at 
some universities have lasted centuries.
The campaign has experienced tremendous 
success in raising money for new scholarships 
for students. Also, with nearly three years left 
in the campaign, $7.3 out of the $10.5 million 
goal for the Hunt Library has been pledged. 
The campaign to add to the endowment is also 
close to its goal, considering the amount of 
time remaining in the campaign.
Another notable aspect of the campaign is 
the fact that $50 million has been committed 
by individuals, which Brannick says is very 
different for us. In addition, 10 percent of the 
1985 and 1986 graduate classes have made 
contributions, which is better than the partici
pation in the senior fund, according to Devel
opment.
Joel Thome replaced as 
head of music department
continued from page 1
Thomas said that it was too early for her to 
comment on budget matters. Jordan said that 
the budget was not a key issue, but did not 
elaborate about the financial matters.
Thome, a native of Pontiac, Michigan, has 
stated that he is a graduate of Eastman Conser
vatory of the University of Rochester. Rumors 
among music students contend that Thome 
attended, but did not graduate from Eastman 
and that Thome misrepresented this fact when 
he applied for the job here.
In reference to the rumors, Jordan said On 
that we do not have any evidence.... I have no 
reason to believe that he misrepresented his 
credentials.
Thome was appointed department head 
when pianist Harry Franklin stepped down 
after seven years in that position.
Student dissatisfaction with Thome was re
flected in a poster hung in the halls of CFA that 
stated There once was an unsound man from 
Manhattan/ who was grandiose a la General 
Patton./ He spent the department to pad his 
compartment/ And hired anything that was
Latin.'
Thomes replacement Thomas, a profes
sional composer and computer music re
searcher, joined the Carnegie Mellon music 
faculty in 1981 as an assistant professor. She 
had been a visiting lecturer in music at Carne
gie Mellon, Chatham College, and the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh.
Thomas declined to speak specifically about 
Thomes firing, but did acknowledge that 
there were a large number of reasons. Com
menting on her appointment, she said, I am 
delighted to be Acting Head. I think theres 
been a positive response. The department is 
100 percent united and ready to move on."
Thomas graduated at the top of her under
graduate class in Carnegie Mellons College 
of Fine Arts in 1964, completing a five-year 
program with two majors in four years. She 
holds bachelor of fine arts degrees in music 
composition and in music, majoring in piano 
performance. Thomas earned her master of 
fine arts degree in music composition from 
Carnegie Mellon in 1965 and a doctors degree 
from the University of Pittsburgh in 1982.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanMarch 8,1988
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Art students fear elimination of glass instruction
Chomsky speaks on 
Central America
continued from page 3 
In addition, Chomsky ridicules the idea of a 
free press in Central America. Its pointless*} 
to talk about freedom of the press, he told the 
audience. Its impossible in a terrorist state 
because the editors get killed by either the 
government or the insurgents.
Another point Chomsky deemed significant , 
was the fact that in the United States its not 
viewed as a scandal that were violating inter
national law by funding the Contras.
Chomsky went on to assert that the United 
States free press virtually suppressed the 
fact that we violated the accords and were 
ruled against by the World Court for maintain- * 
ing supply flights to the Contras.
Continuing to lambaste U.S. foreign policy 
in Central America and other third world 
countries, Chomsky cited a study showing a 
correlation between U.S. aid and torture. 
According to this study there is a general trend 
that the higher the amount of aid the U.S. 
supplies a country, the greater the amount of 
torture there. Why? asked Chomsky, Be
cause they dont care about rights violations.
To improve their investment climate it pays to 
torture and assassinate and restrict.
The speech, sponsored by Educational Ac
tion on Latin America and the Political Speak
ers Forum Board, drew a crowd much larger "j 
than expected.
Mom says the 
house just isnt the 
same without me, 
even though itfc 
a lot cleaner.99
Just because your Mom 
is far away, doesnt mean 
you cant be close. You can 
still share the love and 
laughter on AT&T Long 
Distance Service.
It costs less than you 
think to hear that she likes 
the peace and quiet, but 
she misses you. So go 
ahead, give your Mom a 
call. You can clean your 
room later. Reach out and 
touch someone
AT&TThe right choice.
continued from page 1
each area.
Currently, sophomores interested in pursu
ing the sculpture major devote half of a semes
ter to each of the four remaining areas. Fibers 
was dropped in 1985 because some members 
of the department felt it belonged more to 
crafts than sculpture. Sculpture students are 
expected to concentrate in one of the areas 
during their junior and senior years, but they 
all receive the same degree.
Dr. Orville Winsand, head of the Art Depart
ment. said that one reason behind the aggrega
tion was that CMU had only one instructor per 
area, something accreditation boards gener
ally frown upon, because students view the 
art through only one instructor's viewpoint. 
Although CMU still has only one instructor 
per area, Winsand maintains that students are 
receiving a broader-based sculpture educa
tion. I dont think any program should focus 
on a material or process...the medium is a 
vehicle for the idea, and its the idea thats 
important.
He also said that, beginning next year, the 
sophomore sculpture requirements will be 
increased to one full semester each of glass,
ceramics, metals and wood.
Winsand defended the elimination of fiber 
arts, saying that the department now offers 
more things, and You cant keep adding 
things without taking something away. Since 
1985, the Art Department has added majors in 
video and illustration, as well as computer art 
courses, and opened the CMU Craig Street 
Gallery.
Winsand also claimed that fibers qualify as a 
craft, and that the national trend is moving 
away from crafts and towards sculpture. Ac
cording to him, the department was planning 
on phasing it out anyway, when the instructor 
(a visiting artist who was ineligible for tenure) 
resigned.
The leaflet distributed at Wednesdays 
demonstration claimed that Midani told the 
Student Advisory Council that Fibers and 
Glass areas are crafts only, and crafts do not 
belong in an Art Department. Mulcahy ac
cused Midani of having a very narrow view of 
art, and expressed her surprise that he makes 
his narrow views public...its okay as a per
sonal view, but if it begins to dictate policy its 
an infringement of academic freedoms.
She maintains that she was hired as a sculp
tor, not a glass-blower/craftsman, and that 
glass and fibers were re-defined as crafts as a 
means of dismissing them. By eliminating 
fibers, she feels that Midani discounted the 
whole movement of conceptual art.
Elaine Erne, a senior majoring in sculpture 
with a glass concentration, organized the 
demonstration. She felt it was necessary to 
voice their concern not in the hopes of chang
ing the situation, but of preventing a recur
rence of it in the future. Were worried about 
our department... If glass goes, whats next?
Erne, who is also president of the Art Depart
ment Student Advisory Council, said that 
another sculpture professor is coming up for 
tenure next year, and she cant help but wonder 
whether or not tenure will be granted. The loss 
of fibers classes has left some students believ
ing the ultimate goal is to phase out all sculp
ture areas.
Winsand denied this, though, claiming he 
wants sculpture to be as strong as it can. On 
Thursday, a meeting was held between Win
sand, Midani, Vice President for Business 
Fred Rogers and Physical Plant to discuss 
upgrading CFA facilities. Winsand said the 
administrations response was very posi
tive.
Winsand stressed that Mulcahys situation 
and Wednesdays demonstration were unre
lated. However, the leaflets handed out cited 
Mulcahys dismissal as one of the^, 
demonstrations concerns. A fine arts faculty 
member, who wishes to remain anonymous, 
claimed that at a faculty meeting in October, at 
which the job description for the new sculpture 
professor was created, it was a given that 
Mulcahys dismissal signaled the end of the 
glass program, and for this reason the job 
description didnt specify a proficiency in 
glass. ^
They further stated that some people felt that 
Mulcahy was denied tenure in order to elimi
nate glass. Winsand said that there was no 
official position on the future of glass at the 
time, but that there was much discussion about 
it at the meeting. He declined to give further 
detail as to the specifics of the discussion. He 
also said that the job description did not list 
any areas of specialization in order to attract a, 
broader range of applicants.
Winsand said students were uninterested 
when the search for a new sculpture professor 
began in October, and that none of them con
tacted the head of the search even though he 
had supplied his name. Why didnt the stu
dents demonstrate in 1986 [when Mulcahys 
upcoming tenure review was announced]? he 
asked. Winsand said that students and faculty^ 
are informed who is coming up for tenure 
reviews and given ample time for input.
Heather Bowser, a sophomore who intends 
to major in sculpture, said that she and other 
students bypassed CFA administration and 
went to CMU President Richard Cyert last 
spring when they first heard Mulcahy was up 
for tenure. She said it wasnt just one or two 
of us...groups of 15, 30 have been voicing 
concern. Bowser claims that Cyert was very'*"' 
reassuring and told her not to worry. Two 
weeks later Mulcahys request for tenure was 
denied.
Winsand further stated that he thinks the 
students dont have all of the information on 
the situation. During a question and answer 
session broadcast on WRCT Wednesday eve
ning, Cyert said that students jumped to an 
incorrect conclusion, in reference to equating ' J 
Mulcahys dismissal with the end of glass.

---------------------------------------------------

March 8,1988The TartanPage 7
Minutes of the Student Senate Meeting: 3/1
Meeting called to order 7:00 pm.
8t:6Dhsu Ystut:DQ Pete Berger, Lisa 
Christina, Don Dennis, Dustin Frazier, Laurie 
Gallo, David Gantshar, Allen Greenberg, 
Dana Hausman, Charles Jainchill, Dave 
Jacowitz, Glenn Kombrek, Hal Levine (rep), 
Audrey Liu, Tamal Mukherjee, Karen 
Pavlosky, Kishore Rao, Matthew Ruben, 
Mark Steppei, Pete Zapf.
Senators absent: 8Da6sD HtJh:Oo Tfw6e 
Graupera, Christian Herrick, Erica Levy 
(exc), Chris Neighbor (exc).
C/KhWWflfh Atr.tsu Ystut:DQ Andy Robitshek.
C/KhWWflfh Atr.tsu 6.ut:DQ Glenn Detillo, 
Kerry Skolkin.
Atr.tsuK6DK06sOt bstut:DQ Hoa Trinh, 
Greg Vaserstein, Dennis Wilke.
Atr.tsuK6DK06sOt 6.ut:DQ Aaron Solo
mon (exc), Rudy Zung.
Ystufwt:DSu stbhsDQ Andy Robitshek:
1. Faculty Senate passed new resolution on 
classified and proprietary research. Dr. 
Fetkovitz will talk about it.
8Hg ytbhsDQ Karen Pavlosky:
2. More variety in sodas at MorePizza. No off 
campus delivery.
3. March 5 is video dance with WRCT.
26laeDv 8t:6DtQ Dr. Fetkovitz:
4. Faculty Senate proposed policy says there 
can be restrictive research done in semi-au
tonomous units, such as SEI and Mellon Insti
tute, but not in academic departments. Six 
months will be allowed to check patentable 
ideas. Proprietary research, done for industrial 
companies are not as restrictive as classified 
research.
A copy of the proposal is in the Senate office 
for anyone to read.
i2g stbhsDQ no report.
8Dawt:D -WW6fsu ytbhsDQ Dean Cox:
5. On Monday nights from 11:30-12:30, 
starting March 7, Ed Lilley, from Student 
Affairs, and Sandra Kryder, from the Counsel
ing Center, will lead a discussion group called 
Friendships: With A Little Help... in Mudge 
Lounge. If interested, call x2075, and ask for 
Ed Lilley.
gF6fs*hr6:Su ytbhsDQ no report.
3st6uastsSu ytbhsDQ no report.
-l6wtrfl -WW6fsu ytbhsDQ Lisa Christina:
6. Talked to Ted Fenton and Dean Scheaffer 
about the teaching awards. They need more 
student input and ideas.
7. Glass blowing was never an independent 
option in the art department, but rather within 
sculpture department. If there is not a new 
professor for glass blowing for next semester, 
there will be a technical assistant.
8. Mark Steppel talked to President Cyert and 
Bill Elliot about 7:30 am exams. Next year 
they may be at 4:30 or 6:30 instead, but that 
needs approval.
g6rbau -WW6fsu ytbhsDQ Glenn Kombrek 
committee members reports:
9. Pete Berger is working on academic 
computing and wants to form a committee to 
get things done.
10. Greg Vaserstein is working on messages 
and mail. He spoke with Tony Martin in 
Housing about putting U.S. and campus mail
boxes in Morewood Gardens.
11. Dennis Wilke is working on getting a 
shuttle to go to Squirrel Hill. He will have a 
proposal at the next Campus Affairs meeting. 
Scotland Yards supervisor cannot work more 
hours in order for the Yard to be open more. 
Also, the student pub will not make enough
money to be able to be open more hours.
12. Pete Zapf sent fifteen letters to adminis
trators on campus about the trailers on cam
pus. He has been trying to get in touch with 
President Cyert about getting a spacc on the 
space allocation board for a student.
2a:wf:O 6:w ytlhO:fDfh: ytbhsDQ Tamal 
Mukherjee:
13. Senate allocated not to exceed $400.00 to 
send Erica Levy to a Student Senate confer
ence at Brown University, April 7-10.
Ya.efl yte6Dfh:u ytbhsDQ Laurie Gallo:
14. Karen, Allen, and Dustin moved the loft 
from the office to an architecture studio.
15. Ice skating party Saturday 4-6:30. Meet 
in Grey Matter at 3:30.
16. Karen and Hoa got name cards for Senate 
members.
17. Senate and SDC social will be Sunday, 
March 13 at 7:30 in the Faculty Lounge.
18. The suggestion box is on its way.
yaetu ytbhsDQ Allen Greenberg:
19. Alcohol policy proposal will be ready for 
next week.
20. Charles Jainchill will make a draft for the 
constitution clarifying certain issues: Func
tion of Senators-at-Large, and AB external 
extension of Student Senate.
21. Will hold off SAC policy for a little 
while.
22. Will get hold of hazardous waste policy.
Eew Rauf:tuuQ
23. Resolution about classified research 
untabled.
24. Senator Gantshar said he had 33 volun
teers for Spring Carnival monitors after one 
week.
Pt* Rauf:tuuQ
25. Student Senate resolution on classified
and proprietary research first failed, but then 
motion passed to change end of second para
graph to say: Classified research is restricted 
anywhere on the main campus of the univer
sity, excluding SEI and Mellon Institute. The 
resolution then passed, eight for, eight against, 
tie broken by President Robitshek. Senators 
for: Berger, Christina, Greenberg, Jainchill, 
Kombrek, Liu, Ruben, Steppel. Senators 
against: Dennis, Frazier, Gallo, Gantshar, 
Levine, Pavlosky, Roa, Zapf. Senators who 
abstained: Jacowitz, Mukherjee.
26. Elections held to fill one H&SS seat. 
Students who ran: Kirk, Gary, Cathy Veit, 
Kenny. Senate held an exec session, with 15 
senators present, four proxies. Vote by secret 
ballot. Kirk was elected.
Yhf:Du hW Hfulauufh:Q none.
-::ha:ltrt:DuQ none.
Meeting adjourned 9:45 pm.
Senate adopts 
buggy policy
continued from page 3
and dont have money to build a buggy of their 
own. Im not pro-fratemity or pro-independ
ent, Im just pro-buggy. I think its good for 
everybody, he said.
Before the vote Senator Tamal Mukherjee 
described the amended version as the exact 
policy [followed] for the past years. and 
Graupera claimed this [amended] motion is 
flawed, I think theres a problem with the 10 
percent... Lets forget it ever happened. The 
original amendment was voted down and the 
amended version passed.
Whats
New
at
Carnegie
Mellon?
During the last four months, the 
university's Department of 
Public Relations has sponsored 
a series of informal lunch hour 
meetings in which Carnegie 
Mellon administrators and 
faculty have discussed issues of 
concern to the campus com
munity. These sessions have 
been open to faculty, staff and 
students and have been praised 
by those attending for their 
relevance and interest.
The next session - on Tuesday, 
March 15 from noon to 1 p.m.
- will take place in the Mellon 
Institutes Conference Room.
The topics and speakers:
 The latest plans for the new 
University Center and adjacent 
campus areas. Speaker: Patrick 
Keating, Director of University 
Planning.
 Guidelines for Your Personal 
Safety. Speaker: James LaPaglia, 
director of Carnegie Mellon 
Security.
 The Mellon Institute: A survey 
of its work and operations.
Speaker: William M. Kaufman, 
director of the Mellon Institute.
A question period follows the 
presentations.
Faculty, staff and students are 
cordially invited.
Public Relations will provide free 
soda, coffee and tea. Please 
bring your lunch or buy one at 
the Mellon Institutes cafeteria.

---------------------------------------------------

PEy3I9C83CyP mPiTCy8i3L 8mAACy 8C88iEP Snn
cxx< 8Ftsfw6: yh6w 
C,6:uDh:o ieef:hfu 'xcxn
Yet6ut ut:w rv Wstt lhbv hW DFt 
8arrts 8tuufh: Snn l6D6ehO *fDF Wf:6:lf6e 
6fw 6:w stOfuDs6Dfh: f:Whsr6Dfh:4 
)-,6fe6.et rfwKA6slF
Name
School Address 
City
State ZIP
Home Address
City
State ZIP
Some, Mnse summertime...
Send the coupon or can 1-800-FINDS-NU 
(Inside Illinois call 312/491-4114)ssi
3*te,t hW DFt .sfOFDtuD rf:wu f: DFt lha:Dsv F6w DFt u6rt fwt6 
e6uD uarrts4
\oiire astute enough to discuss the philosophical ramifications of Victor FrankTs Existential Vacuum?
And you're __ still smoking?
L.S Department ol Health & Human Services
HAVE RESERVATIONS?
Stay at Howard Johnson 
for a change!
HOWARDJOHNSON
University Center Hotel
3401 Blvd. of the Allies Pittsburgh. PA 15213
Toll Free Direct to Lodge 
! PA 800-441-3979 
Oat of PA 800-245-4444 
Local (412) 683-6100
A NEW DIMENSION IN SYSTEMS SOFTWARE
,NTERV'eWS
__'
nackaqe d benefit unabte *>*** <
CA 9403,ernp'0^
 a req,stei<-gSSSSS"
^<,aae^
SYSTIMS INCORPORATLD
The Adobe Illustrator 
is a trademark of 
Adobe Systems Incorporated
Summer Housini Near Campus
 Furnished Rooms & Apartments. 
Private Bath
 All Utilities Paid
 Maid & Linen Service
 Laundry & Parking
()nl\ $70.00 weekly 
Only $240.00 monthly
682-7010
%

---------------------------------------------------

4
Page 9The TartanMarch 8,1988
 Crime and Incident Report: 2/22 to 3/4
2/22/88 ACCIDENT 4:22 pm Student rid
ing bicycle in 5100 block of Forbes fell when 
hand brake jammed and coat got caught in han
dlebars. Victim suffered cuts and pain in right 
wrist and left knee.
2/22/88 MEDICAL 3:01 pm Student work^ ing in CFA with foam insulation when the can 
exploded, spraying the chemical into his eyes. 
The victim was not wearing safety goggles at 
the time of the accident. He was transported to 
Eye and Ear Hospital.
2/22/88 OBSCENE PHONE CALLS 4:52 
pm Female students in Morewood Gardens 
received obscene phone calls from 2/18 
through 2/22 from unknown man. Security 
( advised the victims that they could have a trace 
put on phone line.
2/18-2/19/88 BURGLARY A hole found 
above door of basement storeroom in 1091 
Morewood. Stereo and stereo mixer were sto
len from storeroom. Approximate value: 
$360.
2/23/88 SUSPICIOUS PERSON 12:04 am 
Man described as 55, stocky build, oriental 
appearance, and wearing tan jacket was seen 
around Margaret Morrison 213 near the dark
room.
2/23/88 CON MAN 6:46 pm Man on Forbes 
Avenue near Skibo stated he was from Wex
ford and was out of gas. He asked victim for 
money and said he would mail the money 
back. Victim refused. Man, described as 
white, age 30-35, bearded, left scene in 1978 
Buick, PA licence plate #RMX 728.
2/23/88 ROBBERY 10:15 pm Male student 
on Schenley Drive was stopped by six to seven 
black males. Perpetrators blocked victims 
path then two grabbed him while the others 
went through the victims pockets. Victim did
not resist. Wallet containing I.D. and credit 
cards and $51 in cash was taken. Perpetrators 
escaped in large yellow car.
2/24/88 ATTEMPTED BREAK-IN 9:10 
am Persons unknown in Hamerschlag dorm 
used screwdriver and hammer to try to pound 
lock off room door. No entry was gained; lock 
was damaged and replaced.
2/24/88 ACCIDENT 9:18 am Electrician in 
Morewood Gardens basement fell off a 4 foot 
ladder. Victim complained of sharp pains on 
right side of body. Transported to West Penn 
Hospital.
2/24/88 THEFT 1:50 pm Persons unknown 
entered unlocked room in Donner Hall. $100 
cash was removed from purse.
2/24/88 SPECIAL 3:39 pm Two white 
males in late model Honda Civic were waving 
a baseball bat at people on sidewalk at the 
intersection of Forbes and Morewood. Driver 
had a crew cut; no description of passenger.
2/24/88 OBSCENE PHONE CALL 11:34 
pm Female student in Morewood Gardens 
gave her first name to unidentified male caller. 
Security advised victim that trace could be put 
on phone.
2/25/88 OBSCENE PHONE CALL 10:07 
am Morewood Gardens resident had trace put 
on her phone because of obscene calls she had 
received.
2/26/88 CON MAN 4:32 pm Two white 
males approached victim in front of Skibo and 
asked for gas money to get home. Victim 
refused. First male described as 5 10, blond, 
wearing Penn State T-shirt; no description of 
second male. Both left in a white Cheverolet, 
PA license plate #JXB 728.
2/26/88 MEDICAL 11:53 pm Male student 
found passed out in Skibo patio. Victim
smelled of alcohol. When officers woke him 
up, he stated that he had had too much to drink. 
Victim was sent home and his R.A. was ad
vised to watch him that night.
2/27/88 FIRE 4:30 pm Witness exited Wean 
Hall elevator on second floor and saw micro
wave oven on fire. Two nine year-old boys 
were in area and fled. Witness caught one of 
the boys. The boy, a son of a professor, stated 
he had wanted melted chocolate so he put the 
foil wrapped candy bar in oven. At 5:11 pm, 
the microwave caught on fire again from the 
residue left in it.
2/29/88 FIRE 11:55 pm Custodians and a 
professor reported smoke coming from vents 
on the seventh and eighth floors of Mellon In
stitute. A burning couch was found in room 
529 and was extinguished by city firemen. 
There was extensive smoke damage to 529 and 
adjoining rooms. The cause of the fire is unde
termined.
2/27/88 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 11:49 
pm The hot and cold water was left running in 
a second floor mens room in Doherty Hall. 
Carpet and ceiling tile were damaged in rooms 
2101,2103, and 2116.
2/28/88 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 11:34 am 
A large bulletin board was removed from a 
Mudge R.A.s door and not recovered.
2/28/88 THEFT RECOVERY 4:28 pm Of
ficer inside Mudge saw city parking and Do 
Not Enter signs inside open room. Signs were 
confiscated and students issued traffic cita
tions.
2/29/88 HARASSMENT 4:28 pm Friend 
would not leave womans Carol Apartment 
after an argument. Women called security to 
remove the man, a Pitt student, from her apart
ment.
3/1/88 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 9:20 pm 
Three reports of tires slashed in the rear of 
parking area 8 (Morewood Gardens), near 
Forbes. The slashing occurred between 5:15 
and 7:30 pm.
3/1/88 SUSPICIOUS PERSON 6:44 pm 
Employee at Margaret Morrison Childrens 
School reported three high-school age black 
males walked into her office and asked for 
Robert. They were informed that no one 
named Robert worked there. The actors left 
through the back stairway.
3/1/88 SPECIAL 10:14 pm Student in 
Margaret Morrison tried using a room admis
sion card belonging to someone else. Officer 
recognized the name on card and confiscated 
card.
2/26/88 THEFT between 4:30 pm to 3:30 
am Persons unknown entered unlocked room 
in Morewood Gardens and removed 2 cam
eras, 2 Walkmen, a calculator, and jewelry. No 
value determined.
3/2/88 HARASSMENT 7:30 pm Woman 
followed home on Devonshire Road from 
Craig and Bayard. The perpetrator came by 
her home and stated that he was a security 
person from downtown and wanted her to get 
into his car. The man was described as white, 
40 years old, about 5'6, with black hair, 
moustache, and dark complexion.
3/3/88 INDECENT EXPOSURE 1:23 pm 
On the 4th floor of Mellon Institute a young 
male called attention to himself by banging on 
a water fountain and unzipping his pants. He 
was described as high school age, 58, 
Middle Eastern in appearance, with a dark 
complexion, dark hair, moustache, and wear
ing white ski jacket and blue jeans. 
Compiled by JANET SUCHOCKAS
TALK TO 
DRAPER
Monday, March 14, 1988 
Carnegie-Mellon University
BS/MS/PhD Candidates - join some of the nations 
most respected and inventive people at developing in
novative and fascinating new technologies. As a 
leading hands-on "working laboratory" in Technology 
Sguare. we offer a umgue environment for your career 
to grow and develop. Positions are currently available 
for candidates in Electrical Engineering, Mechanical 
Engineering, and Computer Science in the following 
areas.
 Control Systems Design
 Computer/Avionics 
Systems
 Simulation/Modeling
 Guidance & Navigation
 Analog/Digital Design
 Communications
 Test Engineering
 Software 
Development 
Automation/Ai 
Computer 
Architecture 
Digital Systems 
Dynamic Systems
9t trbehv h,ts cxxx bthbet4 iW vha 6st ehhUBf:O Whs 6 lhrbtDfDf,t salary, an haDuD6:wf:O .t:tWfDu b6lU6Ot i:leawf:O DafDfh: stfr.asutBrt:D 6:w 6 uD6DtKhWKDFtK6sD bshWtuufh:6e lF6eet:Oto *t *6:D Dh D6eU Dh vha4
'GUIDANCE FOR TOMORROW " 
Videotape of Draper Laboratory 
available at your placement office.
We are an equal opportunity/affirmative action 
employer, M/F. U.S. Citizenship is required.
The Charles Start 
l&y Draper Laboratory, Inc
 3tlF:hehOv 8a6st g6r.sfwOto iA- xcd<p
-T
'! r' ,L
3K
"Jewtk Uzdtcution
and SpAJuXuaJUXy"
with Rabbi Bob "Love" Kaplan
Taej,day Ma/ick 15, 19SS 
7:30pm
at: Hillel 160 N. Craig Street
Rabbi "Love." uxiLt TarTtnNr the phiioophy 
otf the Jmih out and &puUt and hcM you the 
"hovo-to'i" o Jewish. medUXauLLon. Concept* 6uch 
ai feeing orn el & to highen. evet& o TewsNEedi - 
ne&&, KeZaxng the mind to expedience peace and 
iaes o6 Jeuiih pirtituaJLLty and my&uAm Mitt be
inioduced. oei, beginnen*.
9

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
A wolf in Deans clothing
I6,t vha Ft6sw Lha l6:SD Uttb 6wwf:O DFf:Ou *fDFhaD D6Uf:O 
uhrtDFf:O 6*6v4
Ahst DF6: D*h whVt: uDawt:Du ubt:D e6uD 9tw:tuw6v h: DFt 
e6*: f: Wsh:D hW DFt gheetOt hW 2f:t -sDu .6:Of:O h: rtD6e 
.6ssteu N bshDtuDf:O N .tl6aut 6DFett: Aael6Fvo DFt 
m:f,tsufDvSu h:ev Oe6uu f:uDsalDhso F6w .tt: stWautw Dt:ast 6:w 
DFt m:f,tsufDv *6u :hD be6::f:O Dh Ffst 6 :t* Oe6uu f:uDsalDhs4 
3Ft bshDtuDhsu Wt6stw DF6D *fDF Aael6FvSu wfurfuu6e Oe6uu *6u 
.tf:O bF6utw haD f: ralF DFt u6rt *6v Wf.tsu *6u tefrf:6Dtw 
DFstt vt6su 6Oh NK 6 Dfrt *Ft: Oe6uuo lts6rfluo ur6ee rtD6euo 
Wf.tsuo 6:w *hhw *tst lh:uhefw6Dtw a:wts h:t ulaebDast r6hs4 
g6eef:O DFt uDawv hW Wf.tsu rhst ls6WD DF6: 6sDo DFt 6wrf:fuDs6B
Dfh: auDfWftw DFtfs wtlfufh: Dh tefrf:6Dt fD 6:w uD6sDtw Dh 6DD6lU 
DFt uDawv hW Oe6uu *fDF DFt u6rt MehOfl4k
-:hDFts auDfWfl6Dfh: Whs DFt Wf.tsu tefrf:6Dfh: *6u DFt 6wwfB
Dfh: hW r6hsu f: ,fwth 6:w feeauDs6Dfh: 6:w lhrbaDts W6lfefDftu4 
iDSu h:ev WfDDf:O DF6D gAm *haew Ds6wt Wf:t 6sD Whs bf/teu4
-u t6sev 6u e6uD ubsf:Oo 6sD uDawt:Duo f:leawf:O DFt bstufwt:D hW 
DFt -sD 8Dawt:D -w,fuhsv gha:lfeo *tst D6eUf:O Dh Ystufwt:D 
yflF6sw gvtsD 6:w g2- Ht6: -Us6r Afw6:fo bet6wf:O Whs 
Aael6Fvo 6:wo h:lt Fts W6Dt *6u ut6etwo Whs DFt Oe6uu bshOs6r4 
RaD :hDFf:O *6u wh:t4
3Ft 6wrf:fuDs6Dfh: u6fw :hDFf:O a:Dfe e6uD 9tw:tuw6vo DFt 
rhs:f:O hW DFt bshDtuD *Ft: Afw6:f stet6utw 6 uD6Dtrt:D 
6uuasf:O DF6D Oe6uu uDawv *haew str6f: Whs Whas rhst vt6su4
-bb6st:Dev fD D6Utu 6 ba.efl bshDtuD Dh .t Ft6swo uhrtDFf:O DF6D 
lhaew tr.6ss6uu 6wrf:fuDs6Dhsu t:haOF Dh lF6:Ot DFtfs rf:wu4
-st uDawt:Du DF6D a:stbstut:Dtw f: ualF wtlfufh:u 3Ft 6sD 
uDawt:Du *t:D Dh DFtfs 8-g DFtv *t:D Dh DFtfs wtb6sDrt:D Ft6w 
DFtv *t:D Dh DFtfs wt6: DFtv t,t: *t:D Dh DFtfs bstufwt:D4
RaD fD DhhU 6 bshDtuD N bthbet .eh*f:O hWW le6uutu 6:w .6:Of:O 
h: .6ssteu N .tWhst 6:vDFf:O *6u wh:t4
3Ft 36sD6: 6bbe6awu 6:w uabbhsDu DFt bshDtuDhsu4
iW DFt g2- 6wrf:fuDs6Dfh: whtu:SD uD6sD efuDt:f:O uhh:o r6v.t 
DFt .6ssteu uFhaew .t6D Whs Ht6: -Us6r Afw6:f4Its time to part company
3Ftv u6v DF6D vha 6st rt6uastw .v DFt lhrb6:v DF6D vha Uttb4 
iW uho g6s:tOft Ateeh: uFhaew stlh:ufwts fDu 6uuhlf6Dfh: *fDF 
RtDF6:v gheetOt4 3Ft D*h ulFhheu rtD Whs 6 .6uUtD.6ee O6rt 6D 
RtDF6:v D*h *ttUu 6Oh DF6D uFhaew F6,t ufrbev .tt: 6 stOae6s 
Ystufwt:DSu -DFetDfl gh:Wtst:lt O6rt44
3Ft WfsuD Dfrt DFt Dt6ru rtD DFfu ut6uh:o DFt 36sD6:u *h: DFt 
O6rto 6:w Rfuh: It6w gh6lF Jfr 76e6ll6 *6u DFsh*: haD 6WDts 
stltf,f:O D*h DtlF:fl6e Whaeu43F6D uFhaew F6,t F6w :hDFf:O Dh 
wh *fDF DFt str6DlF f:uDt6wo fD F6w t,tsvDFf:O Dh wh *fDF fD4
- ehl6e D6,ts:o Ra..6Su Rfuh: i::o F6w 6 wfrt ws6WD .tts Fhas 
DFt Fhas .tWhst DFt O6rt .tO6:o 6:w RtDF6:v uDawt:Du *tst 
ahDtw 6u u6vf:O DF6D Ra..6Su F6w uD6Utw 6 Wstt UtO hW .tts Dh
the fraternity/sorority who was the loudest at the game.
9FtDFts DF6D *6u DFt l6ut hs :hDo DFt RtDF6:v lh:Df:Ot:D 
be6vtw DFtfs b6sD Dh DFt FfeD4 - e6sOt lsh*w l6rt Dh DFt O6rt 
6bb6st:Dev wsa:U4 3Ftv .shaOFD DhfetD b6bts 6:w DFst* fD 6WDts 
DFt WfsuD Rfuh: .6uUtDo 6u *tee 6u ut,ts6e hDFts Dfrtu wasf:O DFt 
O6rt4 E:t shee 6erhuD FfD gAm It6w gh6lF 06ssv -:wtsuh:4
3Ft W6:u *tst 6.auf,to :hD h:ev ,ts.6eevo .aD DFtv l6rt f:Dh 
bFvufl6e lh:D6lD *fDF DFt 36sD6: be6vtsu4 i:leawf:O ubfDDf:O 6D 
has Dt6r4 -:wtsuh: F6w Dh 6uU W6:u Dh et6,t DFt gAm .t:lF4 
3FshaOF 6ee hW DFfuo DFt gAm lh:Df:Ot:D ehhUtw Dh utlasfDv Dh 
D6Ut l6st hW r6DDtsuo h:ev DFtst *tst :tfDFts utlasfDv Oa6swu :hs 
ehl6e bheflt 6D RtDF6:vSu Wftew Fhaut4 8hrth:t lhaew F6,t 
6uUtw RtDF6:vSu -DFetDfl HfstlDhs *Ftst DFt utlasfDv Whsltu 
*tsto .aD Ft *6u Dhh .auv lh6lFf:O Ffu .6uUtD.6ee Dt6r4
3Ft .hDDhr ef:t N DFt be6vtsu *tst f:Dfrfw6Dtw 6:w DFt 
stWtssttu *tst f:Dfrfw6Dtw4 3FtstSu :hDFf:O *sh:O *fDF DFt 
FhrtKlhasD 6w,6:D6Oto fW fD fu:SD D6Ut: Dhh W6s4 3t6ru t/btlD Dh 
Oh Dh 6:hDFts Dt6rSu lhasDo :hD Dh .t DFsh*: Dh DFt efh:u4
We condemn the occurrences at Bethany 6:w expect the PAC 
to take some action against the school. At the very least, Car
negie Mellon should not be expected to return to Bethany 
without assurances that security forces will be at their fieldhouse. Otherwise, let the Bisons play to an empty fieldhouse.
Either way let this serve as a warning, just because you play out 
in the bushes, doesnt mean your play should be bush league.
O
O
O
Theehart
Sculpture students not getting any answers
CwfDhsQ
I am a sophomore art major with a 
strong interest in sculpture. Because 
of recent developments within the 
Carnegie Mellon art department, I 
have reason to fear for the future of 
the sculpture program; especially 
the glass area which is in immediate 
danger of being eliminated and the 
small metal area which may be in 
danger by the end of the spring 
semester of 1989. I and other stu
dents have good reason to fear that 
these concentrations will no longer 
be offered to us.
Approximately four years ago Car
negie Mellon offered a fibers/paper 
making concentration. The Univer
sity cut that area professors hours in 
half, thereby halving her salary. She, 
because she could not live-on such 
limited means, was forced to resign. 
During the summer following these 
events, all of the area equipment was 
sold, thrown out, or given away, 
without notification to faculty or 
students. Fiber majors returned the 
following fall to discover that their 
program had been discontinued, the 
equipment done away with (includ
ing wooden looms and an $800 
paper shredder also necessary to 
glass students for mold-making) and 
the studio facility converted for il
lustration classes. Glass students 
complaining about the loss of the 
paper shredder were told by Dr. 
Orville Winsand, Head of the Art 
Department, to go out and buy 
blenders, an unsuitable substitute.
Last year, at the end of a three-year 
deliberation, glass professor Kath
leen Mulcahy was denied tenure. 
Before the decision was made, I and 
twelve other students of Prof. Mul
cahy met with President Richard 
Cyert to express our concern and 
support. President Cyert told us, I 
like Kathleen. I have one of her 
pieces myself, and said he was 
unaware of plans to discontinue the 
glass program. That is still his posi
tion, although his was the final sig
nature on her papers of dismissal, 
6:w there are no plans to hire some
h:t to run DFt glass shops, even 
DFhaOF 6 a6efWftw DtlF:flf6: F6u
been located. Akram Midani, Dean 
of the College of Fine Arts, will not 
give any definite answers to students 
or faculty when asked about the fu
ture of the glass program, but the 
Tartan News published a statement 
that it will not be offered next year 
(February 21 issue). Midani has 
offered the opinion that glass is a 
craft material unsuitable for sculp
ture.
We are not making ashtrays and 
goblets in the glass studios. We are 
using glass to create sculptural 
pieces, not functional objects. We 
have displayed our works for the 
Dean in CFA in order to make this 
apparent, so his persistence in desig
nating glass work as craft is far from 
understandable. Countless petitions 
and letters from students, faculty 
and other working artists have been 
sent to the Dean and to the Art 
Department Head in hopes that our
expressed concern may save the 
glass program from discontinuation. 
They were ignored. Students whoi ) 
have spoken to Dr. Winsand about 
this, and other issues, have been told 
that we are only here four years and 
are not important.
Dean Midani has also expressed 
his opinion that small metal sculp
ture seems suitable only for jewelry 
making, also a craft. Next year Carol 
Kumata, metals professor, comes up ^ 
for tenure. Past example indicates 
that it is this administrations opin
ion that the easiest way for the de
partment to oust a program is to oust 
the professor. Given the Deans atti
tude toward this program, it is un
likely that we will see Professor 
Kumata or the metals area after 
1990.
There is a motto written in CFA 
which says that one of the aims of 
continued on page 11
H
Suggestion to Academic 
Computing: Use Validine
CwfDhsQ
In the vein of George Bush, Aca
demic Computing has shown that it 
cannot be pushed around.
This war of words began several 
weeks ago in the pages of the Stu
dent Union when an unnamed stu
dent criticized several aspects of 
ACs service and managerial struc
ture. This was rebutted soon thereaf
ter by two AC employees explaining 
the underlying basis for ACs rules 
and regulations. Pulling no punches, 
AC formulated the official re
sponse to the article to be submitted 
to the Student Union, The Tartan, 
and CMUs journal of computing, 
Cursor. The response has already 
been published in The Tartan and 
Cursor.
The rebuttal focused mainly on the 
rules and regulations of AC. The 
writers went to great lengths to ex
plain why policy is policy. It is hard 
to argue against their rationale: 
gAmSu computing resources are re
uts,tw Whs aut .v DFt gAm lhrraB
nity. Thus, to use CMUs computing 
facilities, you must prove that you 
are a CMU student, even though the 
PCon knows you.
Unfortunately, both the rebuttal 
and the official response failed in 
addressing some of the relevant is
sues raised. They seem to be saying 
that problems exist with the rules 
and regulations, but there are justifi
cations for those rules and regula
tions. This blind reliance on rules 
and regulations does little to abate 
the persisting problems that are still 
plauging users which include, but 
are not limited to the ID card policy, 
quality of handouts, availability of 
handouts, and the lack of student 
input or feedback.
In principle, the ID card policy 
seems fair. After all, CMUs com
puting facilities are for the exclusive 
use of the CMU community because 
they are paid for by you and me. And 
validated ID cards are the method by 
which access is controlled. Howcontinued on page 12
V

---------------------------------------------------

*' V. - 'l* v-(**
March 8, .1988The TartanPage 11
nco iud epudgpe 6ushaeruc :Or sOofff
Meet Mr. Born-Again, Again
By ART BUCHWALD
The man who came into my office intro
duced himself as Rev. Boomer. He handed me 
a bumper sticker. It said, Honk Once for God 
and Vote Twice for Boomer.
Im running for 
Cborn-again President 
of the United States, 
he told me.
But we already 
have Rev. Robertson 
as the born-again can
didate.
Hes a conserva
tive. God wants me to 
C run as a liberal. That 
way it doesnt look as 
if Hes favoring one 
ideology over the 
other. Born-again lib
erals have the right 
answer to every prob
lem facing this great 
country today, Rev. Boomer said, 
f Where do you stand on Armageddon? I 
asked.
Its coming, but unlike the conservatives we 
believe the government should provide lowcost housing when its over.
What is your political strategy?
Im going to take North Carolina on Super 
Tuesday, Boomer said. As for Texas, 
Robertson doesnt have a prayer.
 According to Rev. Robertson, God is going 
to support him in Texas.
You heard that from Robertson  not from 
God.
If God wants you to run so badly why did He 
wait this long?
He didnt think Robertson would become a 
viable candidate. But after Iowa, God got 
nervous.
 What scared Him the most?
When Robertson said the Russians have 
placed missiles in Cuba. God knows that kind 
of stuff could get us into a nuclear war. 
The word is out that Robertson wants to 
smite secular humanists, radical militant 
homosexuals, and the Eastern Liberal Estab
lishment. Why?
He feels it will help him raise money in 
Alabama, Boomer answered.
Tell me, I said, what makes you think you 
have a better platform than Robertsons?
Im a more popu
lar TV evangelist. I 
got a 31 rating and a 
40 share on my most 
recent program. The 
last time he was on 
the air Robertson 
only got a 10.
Is it fair to throw a 
mans rating at him? 
It doesnt bother 
me. Another thing, 
Robertson is always 
bringing up hurri
canes, Boomer said. 
He says he can turn 
one around all by 
himself. Which 
proves his elevator doesnt go to the top floor. 
I think thats why God asked me to get into the 
race, so people wouldnt take him seriously. 
Rev. Boomer, just because youve been 
bom again doesnt mean you can be elected to 
the highest office in the land. Robertson has an 
organization and an invisible army and claims 
he is in touch with heaven at all times. He has 
even referred to the Presidents seat as 
Yahwehs Oval Office. How do you match 
that?
I have twice as many volunteers. I have my 
own PAC and Im giving biblical acid rain cal
endars to everyone who sends me $10 before 
Super Tuesday.
How does God communicate with you? 
He leaves messages on my answering ma
chine.
What is your economic platform?
I dont intend to balance the budget  I plan 
to heal it.
With your hands?
Of course with my hands. The only one who 
uses his feet is Jimmy Swaggart.
Art Buchwald is a syndicated columnist with 
the Los Angeles Times
AucrhamOe,mh Auachat
Welfare encourages laziness
By THOMAS A. HEIM
With the growth of the welfare system and 
other income redistribution programs over 
the past several decades, one might have 
expected the poorest lowest fifth of the 
nation to have had a relative boost in dollar 
share. Income re
distribution has 
been expanded by 
the government 
over the years to 
make up for the lack of productivity present 
in the lowest classes. What the statistics 
show is that, regardless of these programs, 
income is rightfully pegged to productiv
ity, as much today as it was in 1947.
In 1947, the lowest one fifth of wage earn
ers received 5% of national income; the 
highest fifth took in 43%. Hundreds of 
billions of dollars later in the 1980s, the 
lowest fifth of wage earners received 5% 
again; the highest fifth earned 41.9%. Leftleaning Americans have declared this sys
tem immoral, and far-left American social
ists and communists have pointed to this as 
the failure of capitalism.
We find that other systems have less 
impact than they might like to profess on in
come distribution. The left will be disap
pointed to learn that in Russia, the lowest 
fifth receive 7.5% of the national income; 
the highest fifth receives 37.5%. In Swe
den, the situation is almost identical. The
lowest fifth of wage earners receives 7.7% 
of national income; the highest fifth re
ceives 35.9 percent. These figures include 
taxes taken out along with government 
handouts.
The link between productivity and in
come is indisputable. The combined pro
ductivity of the United States, Japan, West 
Germany, and Canada accounts for more 
than one half of the worlds output each 
year. It is hardly surprising to find out that 
these four countries also have more than 
one half of the worlds income each year.
Income inequality results from produc
tive inequality. To raise the income and 
standard of living of Americas lower fifth, 
we must raise their productivity; we cannot 
simply deal them more dollars. The truth 
about Russia and Sweden teach us this 
lesson. Let us not become caught up in 
another thousand changes in the tax code to 
punish the productive or add a few hundred 
billion to welfare to discourage work. This 
kind of income redistribution has failed in 
Russia and Sweden.
So long as there are differences in produc
tivity, there shall be differences in income. 
To raise the lowest fifth of America, place 
incentives with productivity, not against it. 
Encourage the lower fifth to rise up in skill 
of work and sheer quantity of work, don't 
encourage or reward laziness and non-productivity as the left would have us do.
Sculpture students ask: Whats next?
continued from page 10
this University is to offer students a wellrounded education through offering the most 
diverse experience possible. Has Dean Midani 
forgotten? And why is it that the collective 
student/faculty voice goes unheard? What will 
go next? Joe Mannino, ceramics professor, is 
with Carnegie Mellon on a seven year con
tract; does Midani think that ceramics can only 
make mugs and flower pots?
We are in desperate need of support from the 
Carnegie Mellon student community as well
Battling over private clubs: Who should get in?
By RUSS COOPER 
New York City statute #63 will in all likeli
hood be heard by the Supreme Court. If the 
practice of legislation from the courtroom 
continues here as it has in the past two decades 
or so, this particular case could set a dangerous 
precedent. For this 
law, NYC #63, seeks 
to force all-male 
clubs in the city to 
open their member
ship to women. Should the courts dictate who 
we may, or must, socialize with now?
It seems that it has always been inherent in 
the freedoms we enjoy in this country that one 
may assemble wherever, and with whom, he 
chooses in the private context of his life. Clubs 
9 have been viewed in the past to be a proper 
extension of ones own living room.
To be fair however, the law is not that super* ficial (although there is always the danger that 
latter interpetations may be). It is directed at 
the likes of the New York Athletic Club, the 
Union Club, the Century Association, and the 
University Club. Specifically, it wants open 
admission to woman in all clubs that are non religous, serve at least 400 meals per day, and 
receive a large part of their funding from nonmember sources. The latter being the most 
important, as proponents of the law insist that 
members are using their clubs to conduct large 
amounts of business.
Supporters of the law insist that woman must 
be allowed in because, by not being admitted, 
they are not exposed to all the benefits of the
workplace that men are. The fight is being led 
by the NOW Legal Defense Fund, whose 
fundamental argument is that clubs are not an 
extension of the living room but of the 
workplace. One of their representatives, Lynn 
Shaphran, talked on Public Television last 
week about numerous cases where women felt 
out of place when at these clubs for business 
meetings or conferences, and of how they 
werent afforded the opportunities on the job 
because they couldn't socialize at the same 
places as men after work.
This all seems a little bit too much. Woman 
without a doubt deserve the same opportuni
ties in employment and advancement as men. 
In many instances they have achieved that and 
more with the advent of the reverse discrimi
nation that is affirmative action. But to force 
open the doors of PRIVATE clubs because the 
men who interact with women in the 
workplace choose to socialize or hold business 
meetings (which women may attend) together 
seems overboard.
Indeed, if the boss chooses to invite an em
ployee, who happens to be male, over to his 
house for a drink, should a law or court decree 
force him to also invite a woman into his own 
house for reasons of avoiding possible dis
crimination? In response to Mrs. Shaphran, 
William Rusher, publisher of the National 
Review, stated that the idea that the corporate 
ladder twists into private clubs js a ridiculous 
point. Rusher, who said he belonged to one of 
the aforementioned club, went on to say that 
although some members do talk shop, for
the most part the clubs are used for the tradi
tional purposes of rest, relaxation, and social
izing in an atmosphere whose uniqueness 
many find appealing.
HERBLOCKS CARTOON
THE ATTORNEY EKWl B WW BUST MSKT iW WBULPYI CAKE TO TAKE A NUMBER?'
as Pittsburghs art/academic community. We 
are being denied the broad education which 
this University advertises to prospective stu
dents. The new 1988 sculpture brochure lists 
glass facilities as a feature attraction, and the 
undergraduate catalogues still claim to offer 
fibers, four years after its discontinuation. The 
student voice is being ignored. I would like to 
know what this University is really all about. 
Carnegie Mellon art administrators, who are 
you here for: students or yourselves?
8au6: 8lF6tWWts 
8hbFhrhsto -sD
The Tartan
Editor-in-Chief.............................Karl Barnhart
Managing Editor..........................Erika Peterson
Business Manager........................Russ Seligman
News Editor...........................Eric W. Leuliette
Assistant News Editor...................Chris Young
Features Editors......................Judy Haraburda
Howdy Pierce
Sports Editor.....................................Josh Ruben
Assistant Sports Editor.................Stewart Levine
Diversions Editor..........................Michael Rose
Photo Assignment Editor....... Andy Gillespie
Photo Darkroom Editor..............Albrecht Powell
Art Editor.............................Grant Carmichael
Literary Editor........................Michele Osherow
Production Manager...............Dustin L. Frazier
Copy Editor..................................David N. Levy
Contributing Editors ............................................
Bruce Kasrel Neil Greenblum
Drue Miller Mark Benish
John Friedmann
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Melton University It is a weekly newspaper, published by students each Tuesday during the fad and spnng semesters at no cost to members of the university community It is printed by Typecratt Press. Inc Subecnptions are available for $15 per semester . $25 per year The Editorial appearing at the beginning of the opinion section s the official opinion of The Tartan editorial board Columns are the optmone of individual authors who are not necessanly on The Tartan editorial board or staff Letters to the Editor are opinions of individual authors who are usually members of the University community A letter mended for publication must be signed and include the wnter s address and phone number tor verification Names will be withheld upon request The Tartan reserves the right to condense or repa any letter or column Copyright  1968 by The Tartan The editorial board reserves the right to withhold from pubkeabon any copy H deems unN tor publication
Office: Skibo 50 (412)268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17 / Carnegie 
Mellon University / Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
Funded in part by the Activities Fee All fights 
reserved. Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanMarch 8,1988
An inside look at the genius of financial whiz Michael Milken
Bv ALI OJJEH
He is considered by many to be the most 
influential Wall Street figure of the 1980s, yet 
he operates more than 3500 miles from New 
York. And while he is the biggest shareholder 
and the highest paid executive of his firm (with 
annual compensations of $53 million for 
1986), neither his 
name nor his picture 
appear on the 
companys annual 
report.
He is Michael Milken of Drexel Burnham 
Lambert Inc., and he has become the architect 
behind the most controversial corporate take
overs in America. A Wharton graduate, 
Milken, 40, is the genius behind high yield 
junk bond financing, the most aggressive 
financial instrument of the 1980s. Rarely 
does a big financial deal surface these days 
without Milkens involvement, but surpris
ingly, most people have never heard of him. 
Thats because, unlike far less important fin
anciers such as Boone Pickens or Carl Icahn, 
Milken avoids personal publicity and shields 
his deals with secrecy.
For the past 14 months, the Securities and 
Exchange Commission and the Justice De
partment have been reconstructing the me
chanics of numerous takeover deals Drexel 
and Milken were involved in. Press specula
tion has suggested that Drexels dealmaking 
strategies have been corrupt and that much of 
Milken's success may have been the result of 
systematic rigging of takeover deals.
Junk bonds and takeovers are relatively new 
phenomena and Milkens ability to sell bonds 
to finance multibillion dollar corporate take
overs has altered the balance of power in the 
financial world by making it possible for indi
vidual raiders to obtain the funds needed to 
launch bids for many of the nations biggest 
and best known companies. Milkens network
of raiders includes such Wall Street luminaries 
as Thomas Boone Pickens, Herbert Haft, 
Irwin Jacobs, Carl Icahn, Saul Steinberg, 
Ronald Perelman, Ted Turner, Sir James 
Goldsmith, Victor Posner, Rupert Murdoch 
and the infamous Ivan Boesky. As it happens, 
the majority of these Drexel clients invest in 
each others deals.
In September, 1985, financier Victor Posner 
was seeking to gain control of Fischbach 
Corp., a New York electrical contractor. He 
was prohibited by the terms of a standstill 
agreement from acquiring more than 25% of 
the firms equity unless someone else acquired 
over 10%. By buying 13% of Fischbach, 
Boesky liberated Posner from the standstill. 
Boesky admitted that he acquired the shares at 
the orders of an unnamed co-conspirator who 
agreed to reimburse him for any losses. Drexel
ICyR0EgS8 g-y3EEP
'MWWTOUMEAM 'HOW ARE THEY QWIIFIEP? YOU MUST BE W60TS OR RACISTS"
DurevOaol FauR D,eersdagptMr. Carnegie Wish you were here
By THE INQUIRING STAFF
Dear Andy (No, not you Robitshek),
Sorry we haven't talked to you since the 
Capital Campaign kickoff. It was so nice of 
you to show up. especially considering how 
long you've been 
dead. Anyway, we 
know how disap
pointed you were 
when the drama 
alumni didn't show.
It confused us too. Drama graduates 
wouldnt come back to help their alma mater 
make better bombs to pound the Russians back 
into the Stone Age. Anyway, some weird 
things seem to be happening over in CFA we 
thought you might like to know about.
It all started with Samba. Remember that fine 
Shakespearean-based musical with the score 
by Elvis Presleys writers? You must admit it 
was unforgettable. Only Mel Shapiro could 
have come up with that idea. He resigned as 
drama head. Did you hear about that? The 
shows success so impressed people, he felt 
his talents were needed elsewhere.
One professor wrote a book telling how 
much better it was for Mel to share his genius 
with the whole world instead of just us. OK, 
thats not quite what he said. It was sort of 
libelous, but you know what we mean.
Quitting your job seems to be the in thing in 
Fine Arts. Joel Thome, the music head, was 
replaced a couple of days ago. Whos Thome 
you say? We arent sure either. Marta San
chez, the temporary head, was in her office one 
day, and we went back the next and saw 
Thome talking to a Mexican string group.
He said he was Music Department Head. 
This being Carnegie Mellon, everyone be
lieved him. Guess well never know if he was.
Art and Architecture still dont have Depart
ment Heads either. Theyre looking real hard
for an Art Head! We think theyre going to hire 
this hot-shot from MIT. Warner Hall says hes 
a whiz at neurosciences and artificial intelli
gence. We dont know if he can blow glass, but 
he seems like the sort of guy whod be willing 
to give it a shot. Apparently all of the people 
from art schools turned us down.
If we wait long enough, there probably wont 
be a need for an Art Department Head. Re
member when they got rid of fibres? Glass 
must be next on the hit list. The glass professor 
didnt receive tenure, so the artists spent the 
first nice day of the year banging a gong on the 
CFA lawn.
It must have worked. Dean Midani signed a 
letter of intent to keep the glass-blowing cur
riculum alive. Wish he had waited a few days 
to sign the letter, as soon as the artists went 
back inside, the rain started again. Coinci
dence you say. No way, we think Gods on 
their side.
There have been some good things. Applica
tions are up everywhere except for CIT. Ad
missions was worried that the problems with 
the design studios would lower applications. 
Luckily, the Design Department Head 
(theyve got one!!) promised that freshmen 
wont have to spend more than ten minutes a 
day in the studio breathing noxious fumes.
The school is basically screwed up. We just 
cant put our finger on the reason. Maybe 
when Dean Midani played the dead fisherman 
in Day of the Dead, he trained in the Stanisklaski method. You know, the method where 
you become your part. He should get an Oscar 
for this portrayal.
Sincerely yours,
The Inquiring Staff
The Inquiring Staff is S. Levine, C. Williams, 
and R. Wilson
later financed Posners purchase of Boeskys 
shares. A month later, Boesky paid Drexel 
$5.3 million for investment advice. The 
SEC suspects that this payment was Drexels 
percentage of the profit on the transactions. 
The suspected scheme, which goes well be
yond conventional insider trading, would have 
involved collaboration between Drexel and 
Milken, Posner and Boesky to destabilize and 
gain control of Fischbach for Posner. If the 
conspiracy is factual, there might have been 
numerous violations of criminal and securities 
laws, among them the failure to disclose al
leged arrangements in SEC filings, net capital 
violations, prohibitions against market ma
nipulation, record-keeping requirements and 
anti-fraud provisions of the securities laws. In 
fact, if Drexel had a profit interest in stock 
parked with Boesky at a time when Milken 
had inside information about the coming take
over action involving those holdings, then 
Drexel and Milken may have engaged in in
sider trading.
The tactic is simple: If a deal has problems, 
refinance it through another client and provide 
100% of the financing all around, replace the 
old high-yielding bonds with new high-yield
ing paper, then sell it to your network clients.
Drexel Burnham is the only investment 
bank that went beyond merely advising clients 
to become active initiators and engineers of 
deals. Drexel collaborates with clients to put 
target companies in play. The network 
members willingness to commit billions of 
dollars fro financing of takeover bids has made 
the network one of Wall Streets rare monopo
lies, and Milken priced it accordingly.
But why would Milken take such a large risk, 
such as a possible government action, for 
marginal gain? The answer lies probably in the
Theehar4 vucef
uncommon corporate culture of Drexel and 
Milkens uncommon personality.
For an organization with 10,500 employees 
and $4 billion in revenue, Drexel is very de
centralized. It is a federation of 550 independ
ent profit centers, each with its own business 
plan and compensation deal. Drexel people 
see themselves as risk takers, unconventional, 
and more willing to defy norms.
Milkens high yield securities operation was 
the perfect incarnation of Drexels culture. His 
amazing success in selling bonds to finance 
takeover attempts has shifted power and influ
ence within Drexel towards him. He brought 
respectability to bonds of a type that used to be 
shunned by Wall Street investors as toxic 
waste.
His operations, which accounted for more ) 
than half of Drexels profit in the past three 
years, achieved total autonomy. He has culti
vated close friendships with many of his net
work members, and several of them have said 
that their primary loyalty is to Milken himself, 
not the investment house. After a transaction is 
made, Milken keeps the buyers names secret, 
not only from the issuer but also from anyone 
in Drexel. His management style is imperious 
He delegates little authority. But, his dealmak
ing tactics raise legal questions. In fact, acting 
as an investment banker, venture capitalist, 
trader and investor, he often controlled the 
client, initiated the deal, and negotiated the 
terms. He wanted to win the big takeover 
game. But did he?
The answer to this question will come out 
soon when the government investigation isr^ 
completed. What we do know for now though, 
is that regardless of the investigations verdict, 
Michael Milken will go down in history books 
as the financial legend of our time.
AC should offer better service
continued from page 10
ever, as many students have found out, those 
tiny red validation stickers have a tendency to 
wear off. It then becomes very frustrating at 
three oclock Monday morning to be denied 
access to a computer on the basis of an invalid 
ID, even though everyone in the cluster can 
vouch for you. The official way to handle this 
situation is to have a friend check out the 
mouse w disks for you. A friend available in 
this time of dire need is a miracle indeed.
Solution? Seems quite obvious: the Validine 
cards have been touted as the University 
Credit Card. Why not treat them as such? Link 
up with the Registrars on-line list of enrolled 
students to verify the identity of a user. There
after, any picture identification with a Social 
Security number would suffice as collateral. 
Complicated? Not really, considering that 
these circumstances occur occasionally.
Ideally, checking out software and equip
ment should be as easy as checking out a book 
from the library. After all, the two services do 
not differ that much in principle when it comes 
to circulation of materials. An added benefit in 
implementing a computerized circulation 
system similar to the libraries is the ability to 
keep track of the software or hardware used 
most often so as to facilitate future computerrelated acquisitions decisions.
One of the first places users turn to for help 
is the handouts. A quick glance at the handouts 
available reveal that they are generally incom
prehensible to the lay-user. Handouts for 
Scribe, for example, treats technical terms 
such as filled environments and text for
matter as though they are in the every-day 
lexicon. That may be the case in UCC or Wean 
Hall, but it is not so in real life. Just being able 
to explain the idea of a tree-structured file 
system to a computer novice is an achievement 
in itself. The handouts, for the most part, 
ignore (to the pleasure of some) Andrew ver
sions of the same software. It is about time the 
handouts be better written and revised to re
flect the current state-of-the-art.
\)
Ironically, handouts seem to be available 
where they are needed the least. Handouts in 1 
general are concentrated in the UCC cluster 
where its residents have little need, if any, for 
documentation. A good range is available in 
MMP and Wean, but virtually none save 
Cursor are available in BH 140. Guess which 
cluster novice users frequent most?
It is evident with the publication of the Stu
dent Union article that there is a real lack of 
user feedback at AC. The traditional way AC *  
receives feedback is through electronic mail. 
Alas, not every user with a complaint to lodge 
is comfortable with electronic mail or comput
ers for that matter. Thus, the majority of 
complaints or suggestions go unpublished. 
Ironically, the solution to the problem already 
exists at ACs sister institution, the University 
Libraries. As you walk into Hunt or E&S, you 
may notice various pieces of papers tacked on 
a bulletin board, some with nearly illegible 
handwriting on the upper half of each sheet. 
The bottom half of each sheet contains official 
responses to the suggestions or complaints 
ranging from defective Xerox machines to the 
temperature to books on order. It is unknown 
what problems have been resolved, but at least 
it is an indication that the suggestions or 
complaints have been acknowledged. And '! 
there will finally be something to post on those 
bulletin boards in the clusters  real bulletin 
boards, that is, not electronic ones.
The advent of the computer as an academic 
resource has brought about the need for a new 
class of service, one that is at least as userfriendly as the computing resources. The pres
ent finds the services far behind the state-ofthe-art in terms of user-friendliness because of ^ 
an older system of management. Signs of 
change, though sporadic, are evident but not 
timely. AC should come out from behind their 
veil of rules and regulations to provide some
thing lacking in this university: excellence in 
customer service.
C. t::v 0f: 
8hbFhrhsto IG88

---------------------------------------------------

Features
AFROTC squadron awarded
Rv -PHyC9 RmgiP1I-A
Special to The Tartan
The Air Force ROTC Detachment at 
Carnegie Mellon is proud to announce that 
its Salzarulo Squadron of Arnold Air 
Society (AAS) was recently presented 
with an award for the most improved 
squadron in the country. Arnold Air Soci
ety is a service organization within Air 
Force ROTC which was founded around 
1948 by a group of cadets in Cincinnati 
and named after famous Air Force Gen
eral Henry Hap Arnold.
The society is similar to a fraternity in 
that its members do many things to
gether, remarked Cadet Chris Dakes, 
commander of the squadron. Members 
meet once a week, have dinner during the 
meetings, see movies, and actively partici
pate in the community service projects 
which they plan and organize. Such team
work and close association also tends to 
produce strong friendships.
The Salzarulo Squadron at CMU was 
founded in 1983. According to Cadet 
Dakes, Two years ago, we were strug
gling to get by; we had no money and no 
support. Since then, we have had large 
pledge classes which have brought us 17 
members, four pledges, and over $500 in 
funds. Our membership alone comprises 
one-third of the corps! Consequently, the 
squadron earned the award because it was 
this increase in support and money that 
enabled the squadron to conduct more 
projects and consistently turn in their 
monthly action reports, financial reports, 
and dues to the national headquarters on
time.
Each year, the squadron conducts a local 
and a national project. This semesters 
national project is to participate in some
thing called the Young Astronauts Pro
gram, a government program aimed at 
advancing the technological education of 
children in junior high and elementary 
school. If there is a chapter of the program 
at a nearby school, the cadets in AAS will 
tutor the children in subjects such as sci
ence and math. In addition, the cadets plan 
to form chapters at schools lacking them.
The theme of this semesters area project 
is missing children. The squadron has ob
tained information on child safety from a 
police detective and plans to visit local 
elementary schools and give talks on 
safety. Past area projects have included 
blood drives and visits to elderly homes.
AAS has also been of service to AFROTC 
and CMU in general. The squadron has 
sponsored fundraisers for AFROTC, pro
vided flaggers and sweepers for buggy, and 
is currently sponsoring a ski trip to Seven 
Springs.
Structurally, AAS consists of a national 
headquarters and 12 area headquarters. In 
addition to the national conclave, each area 
holds an annual conclave at which the 
squadrons present vote on such matters as 
policy changes, new area projects, and the 
new area headquarters. However, as 
Pledge Trainer Tom Kileen emphasized, 
A fundamental purpose of the conclaves 
is to bring many squadrons together to 
exchange ideas and create friendships.
continued on page 14
An excitingsportfor exciting people (not really)
Skydiving is a dangerous yet exhilarating sport enjoyed by thousands of Americans, and 
probably some foreigners too. It involves being flown several thousands of feet into the sky, 
leaping from the plane, wondering just what the hell youre really trying to prove, and then opening 
your parachute and drifting down to a hopefully soft landing, preferably not on some major roadway, 
which is the chief danger in this expensive pastime. I can personally attest to the excitement attendant 
upon plummeting towards the ground at terminal velocity.
(Note: I am lying. 1 have absolutely no firsthand experience skydiving and I have no particular desire 
to even get any firsthand experience. The only reason Im writing about skydiving in the first place is 
get thismy editor commissioned this skydiving graphic you see here (known in the news biz as a 
graphic) for an article that never got written, so he said, Glickstein, write me a skydiving article so 
we can use this drawing. Great.)
There I was, falling through space, no sound but for the beating of my heart and the gentle whisper of my 
body cutting a vertical swath through the stratosphere at a hundred and twenty miles per hour plus. (Not really.) 
The preparations for my jump were detailed and numerous. First I was told that Id be breathing air at a 
pressure of eight pounds per square inch. (For reference, air pressure at sea level is about fourteen PSI, and at 
six PSI your face explodes.) Then they told me that when I jump from the plane, I should be sure not to jump into 
the propeller. I said that that was fine with me. Then they strapped me into a contraption which simulates falling 
with a parachute. It is essentially a tall structure with a harness that fits around you and all your weight is on this 
leather strap in your crotch. As a result of this particular phase of my training, I may never have children, let alone 
see straight again. Finally, they instructed me in opening the reserve parachute in case the main chute didnt 
automatically open, which they assured me was a rare occurrence, like for example a major religious leader becoming 
involved in a sex scandal.
Before I knew it I was in a single-engine plane at seven thousand feet, wearing about thirty pounds of skydiving equipent. (I wasnt.) A red light came on in the cabin and I climbed out onto 
the landing strut beneath the wing, then bravely hurled myself down and 
away from the plane. I was in glorious freefall, and in a moment so was my 
lunch. I wondered what I would do if neither the main chute nor the reserve 
chute opened. I would have to quickly undress and tie my clothes together in 
a makeshift parachute and swing earthward on that.
Luckily, however, my chute did open and after a momentary jerk I drifted in 
peaceful serenity, gently down, swinging, rocking like a baby in its cradle...
I cant go on with this. This is a crock. Im supposed to be a reporter, and have 
journalistic integrity and all that. Look, the plain fact is that Ive never been 
skydiving. Sorry. All I know about skydiving comes from the movies. In fact, this 
whole article so far has been a mishmash of scenes from various movies Ive seen. I 
feel terribly ashamed. But its this pressure, you know? Pressure from the higher-ups, 
always pressure, they need an article, you write it. They dont care what you write, just 
as long as they get to use their precious graphic! And youd think that if they wanted 
someone to write a skydiving column for them then theyd send someone skydiving\ But no!
Well, the hell with my editor, Im not going to allow his selfish whims to compromise my 
professional ethics. Let him threaten to cut my pay. Id rather be poor and honest than rich and 
corrupt. Id rather live in a hovel and feel good about myself than live in a mansion and be 
tortured by my conscience for the rest of my life. Id rather have the respect of my reading public 
than a Hugh-Hefneresque swimming pool surrounded by dozens of fabulous babes. (Im lying again.) Uh oh! Here comes my editor...
I landed with a-slight jolt and ran forward a few steps so the parachute wouldnt come down on top of me. My skydiving instructor drove up and congratulated me on a splendid jump. I removed 
my gear and got in his jeep, and we went out and got drunk and had a real good macho time. Skydiving  an exciting sport for exciting people.
60 Seconds
with Bob Glickstein
CMU represented in band festival
3Ft feDft R6:wo bflDastw 6.h,t 6D Ihrtlhrf:Oo fu lhrbhutw hW :h:Kraufl r6hsu4 2has 
.6:wurt: b6sDflfb6Dtw f: DFt Yt::uve,6:f6 i:DtslheetOf6Dt R6:w 2tuDf,6e e6uD *ttUt:w4
Rv P-3-0iC YC3Cy8EP
Tartan Staffer iter
On Friday, March 4, four CMU students 
travelled to Wilkes College in Wilkes-Barre, 
Pennsylvania to participate in the Forty-First 
Pennsylvania Intercollegiate Band Festival. 
Between 15 and 20 other universities were in
volved in the festival. Much of the weekend 
was spent preparing for a Sunday afternoon 
concert which concluded the program.
The four CMU students who participated in 
the festival are Benita Asher, flute; Michael 
Domain, clarinet; Dean Grannes, bassoon; 
and Kevin Iadonto, trombone. All of the stu
dents are non-music majors who play their 
instruments in the Kiltie Band. The students 
were selected on the basis of the instruments 
which they play and ratings and recommenda
tions from Kiltie Band director, Paul Gerlach.
Gerlach feels that the annual festival is bene
ficial to the participants because it gives the 
students a chance to play music of a very high 
level with other outstanding musicians. 
Iadonto, who also attended last years festi
val, agrees, stating that what he enjoys most 
about the festivals is the opportunity to be6v 
more challenging music.
The selections included: Symphony in RK 
flat for Band by Paul Hindemith, a march 
called His Honor by Henry Filmore, The 
Passing Bell by Warren Benson, and "Salva
tion is Created by Tschesnokov. The Inter
collegiate band was led by guest conductor 
Larry Rachleff, who is director of the wind 
ensemble at Oberlin College Conservatory of 
Music.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanMarch 8,1988
Specs advises lovelorn: Slip, Trip, or Driph
Dear Specs,
I am in a dilemma. I like this guy who doesn t 
even know Im alive. What should I do? How 
can I meet him?
Pining Away
Dear Pining,
If you don t know him, you couldn t possibly 
like him. You might find him attractive, but 
don't fool yourself into thinking that he would 
make an ideal beau. If you would like to meet 
him. and you don't want to appear too forAsk Specs
Rv 86s6 2ev::
ward, there are several subtle solutions open 
to you.
Observe your victim carefully for several 
days. When he puts down a magazine in the 
library, amble over and check out the title. At 
lunchtime see if he nips into Kiltie for a man 
size meal or into Salads Plus for a healthy 
snack. Be a sleuth  if you know a little 
something about his interests you might find 
something in common to discuss during the 
second part of the process.
The next step is to entice him into exchanging 
pleasantries with you. If you can both remark 
upon the weather while waiting for the eleva
tor, or some such thing, he will at least know 
you exist.
Unfortunately, we do not always find our
selves waiting for a slow elevator with Dream 
Boy. If you find this is true you have only one
choice. You must take fate into your own hands 
and resort to Slip, Trip, or Drip.
Fall on the carpet next to his desk; he wont 
fail to notice you. As he bends to help you to 
your feet you may introduce yourself. If this 
seems blatantly forward to you, just Trip or 
Drip. When you see him, stumble slightly and 
a passing remark like Its so icy in the winter, 
dont you think? (Ifyou happen to be indoors 
he might think you are a bit slow.) You also 
might want to trip and say Oh, excuse me. By 
the way, have you seen Road & Track? (The 
magazine he was reading last week.)
If literally falling into his arms doesnt ap
peal to you, then your only option is Drip. If 
you spill soda on him he will never forget you. 
While you are profusely apologizing and 
wiping off his sweater you might insist on 
having it dry cleaned  at your expense, of 
course. The procedure will build a bond be
tween you as time goes on.
Perhaps you dont want to intentionally em
barrass yourself in this manner. You want a 
more graceful introduction. In your imagina
tion you see Dream Boy holding open the door 
to Baker Hall for you, smiling and offering to 
carry your books as he says Whats your 
name? How lovely...
Well, if romance is what you want from the 
start perhaps you can employ notes; I 
couldnt help but notice you at the soda ma
chine. Do you really prefer Pepsi to Coke? 
Or flowers, if he seems to be sick (e.g. cough
ing, sniffling, sneezing) with a card Your 
nose is like a red red rose. Even candy is 
acceptable in this day and age. Have a Hershey Bar, please. You extend the offering to 
him with a generous smile.
Good luck! Hopefully he feels the same way.
Specs
Dear Specs,
Is it ever too early to ask someone for a 
date? Will it appear nerdy if I ask a girl for a 
date for Friday on Monday?
Timely
Dear Timely,
Absolutely not. There isnt a bad time to ask
a girl out. You may ask her out Sunday, Mon
day, a month, two years, during an exam, en 
route to the airport, at graduation, whenever.
Personally,I think it is very chic to call some
one early (7:00, 7:30 am) and wish them 
Good morning! Lovely day ahead. How 
about a movie Saturday?
It always starts the day off with a bang.
Specs
Dear Specs,
I am going to see Macbeth. The only problem 
is that I have a terrible cold. Im nervous that 
Ill have to cough. What should I do? Is there 
an appropriate time to cough?
Sick at CMU
Dear Sick,
Yes, there is a right and a wrong time to 
cough, especially during an expensive and 
extensive performance like Macbeth. The way 
you cough can create a certain tone that will 
endure through the evening.
During soliloquies like Tomorrow, and to
morrow and tomorrow, cough away. Al
though Macbeth is at a crucial moment in his 
life, and the plot is pivoting madly, you may 
feel free to hack away. He says tomorrow
continued on page 16
Service squadron wins award
continued from page 13
The chain of command of the Salzarulo 
Squadron at Carnegie Mellon consists of a 
commander and vice-commander, a direc
tor of operations and his staff  in charge 
of organizing projects  and a director of 
administration and his staff, responsible for 
files and paperwork. A comptroller and a 
pledge trainer round out the command.
AAS conducts a fall and a spring rush 
with a seven week pledge program similar 
to that of a fraternity. The pledge class 
learns facts about the the history of AAS 
and the Air Force through a pledge manual 
and through weekly pledge meetings, and 
must pass a test at the end of the seven week 
period. In addition, the pledge class must 
conduct three projects: one for the squad
ron, one for the corps, and one for the
community.
Recent squadron projects have included 
fundraisers and the painting of ah AAS 
coat of arms for display in the cadet lounge. 
Past pledge classes have helped the corps 
with recruiting and buggy. And for a 
community service project, the fall pledge 
class answered phones for a pledge drive 
held by WQED, channel 13 in December. 
At the end of the pledge period, the pledge 
class is initiated into the society in a formal 
ceremony attended by top Air Force Asso
ciation representatives in the area.
It is quite clear that Carnegie Mellons 
Arnold Air Society squadron has made a 
growing impact on the community in the 
past few years, and it was only fitting that 
its members be duly rewarded for their 
efforts.
Luck o the Irish,
THIS IS YOUR CHANCE!!
Student Senate Presents:
I
Scotland Yard  March 17th ^ 4:30-6:00pm
This means:
Your chance to meet your colleges senators 
Your chance to find out what Senate does for you 
Your chance to find out what you can do for Senate 
Your chance to express your opinions and suggestions 
Your chance for FREE FOOD!
f
B

---------------------------------------------------

March 8,1988The TartanPage 15
March marks national womens history month
On Sale: 
Tickets for
Dance Theatre of 
Harlem
frMpffih 11 Benedum Center
CMU ID Required
2 tickets per person
8bh:uhstw .v DFt Htb6sDrt:D hW 8Dawt:D -lDf,fDftu
1-0- g-0CPH-yA-ygI dpnn
A6slF '
Film: PAUL CADMUS A biographical film about the painter and his work.
A6slF d<
Planned Spontaneity: Like last time, we'll meet at our regular time and place, then off into the universe!
A6slF cx
We will have a guest speaker from CRY OUT! to talk about the Valentine's Day raid on Traveler's and give an update on the political action taken by the gay and lesbian community in Pittsburgh.
All events, unless otherwise noted, will be held Sunday evenings at 7:30 In SkJbo Room 12. There are no admission fees, and everyone interested Is welcome to attend. There are also weekly rap sessions on Sunday afternoons. For more information, contact us by campus or computer malL
Cay and Lesbian Alliance Mellon c/o Skibo information DeskCarnegie Mellon University Pittsburgh, PA 15213 Computer mall: CALA  andrew
The GALA Dance
This is our fourth dance on campus, and promises to be the 
best yet. We find that the longer we do it, the better we get. 
Be in the Wherrett Room at 9:00pm and party with those who
really know how.
Speakers, video festival, workshops planned 80 years ago: Weve come a long way, baby
Rv JmHL I-y-RmyHTartan Features Co-Editor
The most important thing women have to do is to stir up the zeal of women 
themselves the philosopher John Stuart Mill said in an 1869 letter. This 
philosophy certainly seems to capture the spirit of the activities celebrating 
National Womens History month.
The Eighth Annual Pittsburgh Womens Career Network Day will offer 
college women the opportunity to speak with female professionals in over 
20 fields on Saturday, March 26, at 8:30 am at Kaufmanns downtown.
The program will feature keynote speaker Congresswoman Patricia Schroeder. 
Schroeder helped found and co-chairs the Congressional Caucus for Womens Issues, 
a bipartisan group of representatives who support womens legislation in Congress. Re
elected seven times, she is the most senior woman in Congress.
Other speakers include General Manager of the Pittsburgh Airport Mar
riott Barbara McMahon; attorney Cynthia Baldwin; Holly Van Dine,
Director of Marketing and Public Relations for the Pittsburgh Trust for 
Cultural Resources; Mary Zubrow, Vice President for Community Affairs of Magee 
Womens Hospital; Cynthia Chertos, Executive Director for the Greater Pittsburgh 
Commission for Women; and K. G. Englehart, Director of Health and Human Services 
at CMUs Robotics Institute.
The program will include a panel discussion followed by a luncheon. Registration fee 
(includes lunch) for students is $10. Registration deadline is March 18. For more 
information, call Jennifer Boyd at x4205.
At Carlow College, each Tuesday (from March 1-22), the Womens Studies depart
ment is sponsoring a video festival, which will include slide 
shows and video tapes on topics ranging from the U.N.
Decade on Women to Women in India. Lunch will be pro
vided. For more information, call Carol McAlister at 578- 
6037.
On Saturday, March 12, the second conference on the His
tory of Women in Pennsylvania and the fourth annaul TriState Womens Studies Teaching Conference will be held at 
the William Pitt Union at Pitt.The conference will include an opening address from Molly 
Yard, President of the National Organization of Women, workshops, and roundtable dis
cussions during lunch. Registration is $10 ($17 with lunch). For more info, contact: Dr. 
Irene Frieze, Womens Studies Program, 2632 Cathedral of Learning, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15260
National
Otisiom
Rv JmHL I-y-RmyHTartan Featues Co-Editor
Remember the days when men came to call on their sweethearts bearing 
flowers and sat out on the front porch under the watchful eye of Mother? No? 
Me neither. Looking back at Tartans from the early 1900s, education for 
women had a decidedly domestic twist and their social life 
was...uh...somewhat restricted. Women at the Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
School studied home economics, etiquette, and earned degrees to become 
elementary school teachers. As recently as the late 60s, women had a curfew. 
The following are excerpts from The Tartan illustrating how very different 
lifestyles were then:
November 6,1907Miss Jane Addams, founder of Hull House, Chicago... delivered 
a very interesting address upon a subject very near to us all: The problem between Trade 
Teaching and Home Teaching.
Just at present, she said, there is a very interesting problem for women 
to solve, and perhaps this school will lead to its solution. Young women go 
out as wage earners, and do not learn anything of the care of the home, which is the correct 
sphere for women....
January 29, 1908  The class in Technical Dressmaking is designing and making 
evening dresses for their final examination... They are first thought out on paper in 
Costume Design class; then the amount and cost of the materials are reckoned in Estimate 
class; and finally, in the sewing room the dressmakers plunge into the drafting, cutting 
and fitting of the gowns.
October 9,1907From the State Collegian.
...the rules which govern the residents at the Ladies Cottage 
may be of interest and are now made public for the first time.
No one is permitted to walk off campus with a male. The 
governess shall be informed when a man has asked to call, and 
the necessary permission sought.
Sunday night callers must be out by the willow by 9:30 under 
pain of an interview with the governess. Friday and Saturday 
night calls may be prolonged until 9:45. Girl students may not 
work in the library at night without permission.
If any subjects in the course require night attendance the subjects shall be dropped. A 
tinkling bell shall announce to the students at the Cottage when to begin study, when to 
stop the same, and when to retire. The last bell shall ring at ten.
MVomen s 
c/Vtordh

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanMarch 8,1988
Rubinstein assists in superconductor researchI
PITTSBURGHRona Rubinstein, a senior at CMU and a 
Potomac native, spent a fall semester at Argonne National 
Laboratory, near Chicago, helping researchers understand the 
class of materials called superconductors.
Superconductors, compounds that lose resistance to electri
cal current when cooled below critical temperature, have 
gained a large amount of attention in the past year.
The increased interest in these compounds is due to the 
discovery of classes of superconductors that lose resistance to 
electrical current at substantially higher temperatures than 
before, allowing for less expensive cooling systems.
Hau Wang, Rubinsteins supervisor, has been conducting 
research to understand the characteristics of these inorganic 
superconductors, but he is also working on a relatively new 
variety of superconducting materials, called organic supercon
ductors. These materials also lose resistance to electrical cur
rent, but the temperature at which this occurs is very near the 
absolute zero point, or minus 459 degrees Fahrenheit.
Uses for organic superconductors are still a long way off 
because of the cost to cool them, so its really more of an 
academic interest right now, said Wang. However, organic 
superconductors do have some advantages because it is easier 
to isolate them and study their physical properties.
Rubinstein was involved in experiments on both classes of 
superconductors, but primarily worked with the organic vari
tDv4 Its h.u f:leawt bstb6sf:O DFt lhrbha:wu Whs 6:6evufu 6:w 
uDawvf:O DFtr *fDF 6: /Ks6v wfWWs6lDhrtDtso 6: f:uDsart:D DF6D 
.hr.6swu r6Dtsf6eu *fDF /Ks6vu 6:w bshwaltu 6 ul6DDtsf:O 
b6DDts: a:fat Dh DF6D lhrbha:w4
Rubinstein feels that the work she was involved with was 
significant and beneficial. One of the most important things I 
learned from this internship is that you need to take initiative on 
projects and have confidence in your abilities and judgement. 
More importantly, I learned how to communicate technical
information to the lay person, which is very important for my 
future career.
Rubinstein, one of 55 students picked by Argonne from a 
group of 158 applicants, was chosen because of her academic 
accomplishments and the strong recommendations from fac
ulty members of her university.
Argonne offers these research opportunities to students to 
educate them in the rigors of cutting edge research, said Alan 
Schriesheim, Director of Argonne National Laboratory. The 
laboratory ranks as a leader in physical, environmental, bi
omedical and engineering research.
The Science and Engineering Research Semester at Argonne 
is one of five such programs sponsored by the Department of
Energy. Pacific Northwest Laboratory, Lawrence Berkeley 
Laboratory, Brookhaven National Laboratory, and Oak Ridge 
National Laboratory also provide these research opportunities 
for students. Interested students should contact the Division of *Educational Programs at Argonne National Laboratory.
Rona Rubinstein spent the fall researching in Chicago.
Out, out, damn cough!
continued from page 14
three times. Surely the audience will catch one of these 
words, and therefore understand the meaning of the 
speech. And as for tone, it comes and goes, and youII get 
more during the evening.
You may even set the tone by deliberately coughing 
during certain moments. When Lady Macbeth says 
things like Unsex me here, or .../ would while 
smiling have plucked my nipple from his boneless gums 
and dashed the brains out, had I so sworn... your gentle 
cough will alert those sitting near you that you have a 
Victorian idea of what should remain unspoken. Not 
only will your peers respect this, but they will also not 
mind missing out on hearing these famous speeches 
again. If they really liked them they could buy a copy of 
the play and read it at home. Climax is also a good time 
to cough. Contrary to popular belief, the most tense 
moment of the play is the time when audience participa
tion is de rigeur. In the case of Macbeth this would be 
when Macduff sci earns "Macduff was from his mothers 
womb untimely ripped! The play at this point is almost 
over. We are about to see dear old Macbeth polished off. 
Cough away.
Specs
5168 PENN AVE
P/wte
16 INCH 
PEPPERONI PIZZA $4.7+otax
Saturday 11 am - 2 am 
Sunday through Friday 3 pm - 2 am
BRT.....18 1/2 ...... CML ..... 17 3/4 ...... DPL ......26 7/8 ...... DIC .....32.
10 5/8 ...... MED ..... 34 3/8 ....... NOV ....... 26 1/2 .......NYN .........69 ....
STOCK MARKET UPDATE
YyC8CP3CH RL
CTCyL AEPH-L 3Iym 2yiH-L -3 PEEP -PH YA 88.3 FM 
8YEP8EyCH RL LEmy 83mHCP3 -g:Ti3iC8 2CC8
Philips Laboratories
Briarciiff Manor, New York
If youre undecided about 
what career step you should take 
you should consider Philips Laboratories.
PHILIPS LABORATORIES, the research 
division of North American Philips Cor
poration, will be visiting your campus 
March 22,1988 (contact your Place
ment Office for additional information.)
North American Philips Corporation is 
a Fortune 100 company, with annual 
sales in excess of $4.5 billion, prominent 
in the design, manufacture and distribu
tion of consumer electronics, electronic 
components and scientific and profes
sional equipment, including medical in
strumentation and lighting systems.
PHILIPS LABORATORIES is seeking 
highly qualified scientists who have an 
MS or PhD in relevant disciplines to 
work in the fields of:
An equal opportunity employer. M/F/H.
 Materials Physics
 Solid State & Surface Physics
 CAD for Integrated Circuits
 Artificial Intelligence
 Robotics & Advanced 
Automation
 Microelectronics & VLSI Design
 Video Signal & Image Processing
 Advanced Television Systems
Affiliated with the worldwide Philips 
family of research laboratories, PHILIPS 
LABORATORIES offers immediate 
career opportunities within a growing 
international organization, which are 
professionally challenging, intellectually 
stimulating, and culturally enriching.
Philips has major European research 
laboratories in London, Paris, Aachen, 
Hamburg, Brussels and Eindhoven, The 
Netherlands.
Competitive salaries, a full benefits pro
gram, an attractive work place overlook
ing the Hudson River, and peopleoriented management make working for 
PHILIPS LABORATORIES a rewarding 
opportunity.
If you are unable to see us during our 
visit, please send your resume to: 
Human Resources Representative, 
PHILIPS LABORATORIES, 345 Scar
borough Road, Briarciiff Manor, NY 
10510.
North American Philips Corporation
For Summer Session Bulletin and application Mail this coupon to: Summer Session, Building 1 Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305-2074 or call (415)723-3109STANFORDSUMMER
JUNE 20 THROUGH AUGUST 13


---------------------------------------------------

March 8,1988The TartanPage 17
Jackson discusses theatre with students
Rv JE8I ymRCP
Tartan Sports Editor
Actress Glenda Jackson, who plays Lady 
Macbeth in the current touring production of 
Macbeth, took time out from her schedule to 
hold an informal discussion session for the 
Drama Department last Friday in the Kresge 
Theatre.
Jacksons appearance was arranged through 
the Drama Department in an effort to expose 
the students to the real life of a professional, 
working actor. Jackson did not give a lecture 
or speech, but simply responded to the ques
tions of the full house audience of the Kresge.
Jackson discussed a wide range of topics in
volving the theatre, including the problems 
that have greatly disrupted Macbeth the last 
few weeks. She said the set was simply not 
designed well for the play, We were playing 
the set. She explained that, with Shakespeare 
especially, the audiences attention must be 
focused on the actors and what they are doing 
and saying on stage. The first set was simply 
too much, she added, it has an operatic edge 
that has to be worked out...we have to take the 
time to get back to the play.
In addition to Macbeth, Jackson talked about 
her own experiences with the theatre. She 
received a huge gasp from the students when 
she told of how she started working in the 
theatre after being out of drama school two 
weeks. But after that, I went for almost two 
years without work, such an ordeal caused me 
to suffer a minor nervous breakdown.
In terms of advice, she told the acting stu
dents that they must keep their bodies healthy 
so that they are able to adapt to the demands 
that various roles will put on them. She also ad
mitted that typecasting is an always present 
feature in show business. You work for 10
days preparing for an audition  that is 10 
days of your life, she said. Then you walk in 
to the casting agent, or the directors office and 
he takes one look at you and says youre not 
right for the part. And its all over in 10 
seconds. She told of her own personal expe
riences with such rejection, It hurts, even 
when it has nothing to do with your acting; re
jection is a real pain.
Several people in the audience wanted to 
know about the differences between the the
atre and actors in England and in the United 
States. The theatre is more respected in Eu
rope, Jackson said, but added that she really 
enjoys working with and watching American 
actors. American energy is wonderful. I only 
wish we [in England] had more of it. She also 
commented on the fact that, due to unions, 
American actors are not permitted to work in 
England, while the English can perform here, 
I think it is a disgrace. There should be an
MACBETH
CMU 
Computer Store
CMU Computer Store: UCC - A level
Phone: x2636 MM: PS00@TE 
For a current price list: 
Type HELP COMPUTER-STORE-PRICES on any TOPS 
System.
<IMPORTANT> 
MACINTOSH SCAM
January 26,1988
It has come to our attention that students are being approached 
by two individuals who otter to lend" them money to buy a Macintosh 
computer. If the student agrees to do this, the student Is given the 
money, buys the computer, and gives the computer to this individual 
who then sells it
So far, we know of four Instances where this has happened.
Students should be aware that when they accept this money and 
buy the computer and then give It to this Individual for resale, that this 
constitutes fraud and Is grounds for expulsion or dismissal from the 
University. They are not only becoming a part of this scam but are 
also subject to arrest on several counts that could Include fraud, theft 
of services, violation of license agreements, criminal conspiracy, and 
criminal mischief.
Should anyone approach you, please get In touch with Campus 
Police x 2323 immediately and/or the Office of Student Affairs.
If any of you have any Information concerning this, please get in 
touch with me immediately!
Lois Cox, Associate Dean of Student Affairs
open, free artistic exchange between the two 
largest English-speaking countries.
Jackson further discussed how television has 
influenced the acting trade. In one of the most 
interesting statements she made in the hour 
long discussion, Jackson said, T.V. has de
stroyed the exercise of the imagination for the 
actor. This statement drew giggles from some 
in the audience and stark silence from the rest. 
According to Jackson, one can easily walk 
down the street and see a Hamlet, Polonius, or 
even a Macbeth. People have been condi
tioned to think of such characters as lofty or 
unreal. She said that the imagination (of the 
audience as well as the actor) has been closed 
down and cannot see that such characters are
as real as any other in literature. I dont like 
television, she said later.
Peter Brook, according to Jackson, was the 
most challenging director Ive ever worked 
with. He was like an oasis in the desert. 
Jackson stated that she believes working with 
other actors is the most important element for 
the actor on stage. Brook is a director who 
works for the ensemble actor, she said.
Most actors have a favorite play or perform
ance of their own that they are proudest of. 
Jackson, however, does not. A student asked 
her about which performance she feels was 
her best. Jackson simply said, I dont be
lieve that has happened yet. When it does, Ill 
probably stop acting.
FINANCIAL AID 
APPLICATIONS
FOR 1988-1989
Are available beginning February 8,1988 
in the second floor atrium 
in Warner Hall
You are advised to obtain a packet of application materials 
as soon as possible after February 8ih
General Filing Deadline: May l, 1988
(Unless otherwise specified by your state grant agency)
/i PAYUESS 521-5700
/ J CAR RENTAL
JHi ALSO DBA HOUOAY* PAYLESS* RENT-A-CAR
Our Name Says It All."
5600 Wilkins Ave. Pgh. Pa. 15217 
(Squirrel Hill)
- Low Daily Weekly Rates . Weekend Specials
 Must be 21 or over
 Most Major Credit Cards Accepted 
(Students' and Parents' cards accepted
15 Td 7 Passenger Vans available also
 1/2 mile from Campus 
w3fiowi06 loi I roc Hnervaoons
1 800*237-2804 or Cal tvwi Agent

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanMarch 8,1988
Carnegie Care Unit offers 
CMU pre-meds support
By KELLY SPENCER
Tartan Staffwriter 
Although witnessing an autopsy might not rank high on your 
list of favorite activities, for some members of our campus 
community it is both an exciting and an educational experi
ence.
The students I am speaking of are those of CMUs Carnegie 
Care Unit (CCU). As future doctors, nurses, and medical 
practitioners, observing an autopsy provides an important 
opportunity for these students to test their mettle and confirm 
the appropriateness of their chosen career. Led by President 
Raja Chatterjee, the Carnegie Care Unit offers Carnegie Mel
lon pre-med students a supportive environment in which they 
can discuss issues and participate in activities relevant to their 
field of study.
Meeting monthly in 301 Scaife Hall, the group hears a wide 
variety of speakers including practicing surgeons, hospital 
directors, and HMO representatives. Just as one example, last 
Thursdays speaker was Dr. Robert Glue of the University of 
Pittsburghs School of Medicine. He graduated with a PhD in 
Biochemistry from the University of California and researches 
human disease, birth defects, and parasitic infections, concen
trating mainly upon malnutrition and inborn errors in metabo
lism. His studies have led him to Nigeria, Africa, where he has 
been working for many years.
CCU members have also witnessed surgeries from the obser
vation rooms of many area hospitals, especially Shadyside 
Hospital. Several members volunteer there another of the 
Carnegie Care Units many projects. These are the students 
who brought the Safe Sex Symposium to campus last semester, 
as weH as the ones who volunteer at the United Way Health-ORama, which they initiated.
The Carnegie Care Unit is comprised of about thirty members 
and has been in existence at CMU for at least seven years, 
perhaps even longer. Advised by Dr. Anne Robinson of MCS, 
the groups seniors have an excellent medical school accep
tance rate. Of the 10-15 seniors graduated last year, all were 
accepted to the schools of their choice  pretty impressive. 
New members are always welcome and can direct their ques
tions to Dr. Robinson at extension 2484.
1 
The UP Gallery, 3816 Forbes Ave
nue, will present an exhibition of Di
ane Samuels sculpture works through 
March 20. The gallery is open Tuesday 
to Saturday 10-4 and Sunday 2-5. 
Highway 66 and Other Views, a 
photography series by Anne Fishbein, 
shows Feb 18-March 22 in the Carne
gie Mellon Hewlett Gallery in CFA. 
The Hunt Institute for Botanical 
Documentation at Carnegie Mellon 
will present its 6th International Exhi
bition of Botanical Art and Illustration 
April 8-July 31. Hie show will contain 
97 artworks by 93 artists from Austra
lia, England, Spain, Japan, and other 
countries. The show is open from 9:00 
am to noon and 1.00 pm to 5:00 pm on 
the 5th floor of the Hunt Library. Free. 
For more info, call the Institute at 268- 
2434.
Tuesday, March 8
Seven Pittsburgh poets will read the 
works of Haniel Clark Long at the 
Haniel Long Centennial Celebration at
8 pm at the United Methodist Church 
of Pittsburgh, South Aiken at Centre 
Avenue, in Shadyside. Free. 
Wednesday, March 9 
The Pittsburgh Sierra Club will hold a 
hiking and backpacking workshop at 
7:30 pm in the Pittsburgh Civic Gar
den Center, 5th and Shady. Club 
members will demonstrate equipment, 
describe places to hike, and provide 
suggestions on taking care of the 
woods while hiking. Free. For more 
info call 561-0203.
Donald Gibbon will speak on the 
Pittsburgh-Donetsk Photo Ex
change; Whats it all about? Noon to 
1:00 pm at the Downtown Y WCA, 305
CITY LIGHTS
Wood St., Room 414. Mr. Gibbon is 
the founder of the exchange. Free. 
Alex Shoumatoff, staff writer at the 
New Yorker, will lecture on On Writ
ing Family and Personal History at 
7:30 pm at the Historical Society 
Building, 4338 Bigelow Blvd., 
Oakland. Admission is $2 for nonHistorical society members. Call 681 - 
5533 for more information.
Friday, March 11 
?The award-winning, five woman a 
cappella gospel group, Sweet Honey in 
the Rock, will perform at 7:00 pm at the 
Allegheny Middle School Audito
rium, 810 Arch Street, North Side. 
Free. For more info call 237-2643. 
Saturday, March 12 
The Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre will 
hold auditions for dancers for the 
1988-1989 company. The auditions 
begin at noon for women and 1:30 for 
men. Resumes should be sent to the
mation, call Alison Corday at 281- 
0360.
The second conference on the History 
of Women in Pennsylvania and the 
fourth annual Tri-State Womens 
Studies Teaching Conference will 
start at 9:00 am. Registration fee is $10 
and $17 with lunch. For more info, 
contact Dr. Irene Frieze, Womens
Studies Program, 2632 Cathedral of 
Learning, University of Pittsburgh. 
PPG Place will hold a series of events 
in honor of St. Patricks day starting at 
11:00 am. The events include bands, 
dancers, and special retail events. 
Free. For more information, call the 
PPG Place Events Hotline, 434-4686. 
Carlow College will host A Tribute 
to Ireland, the Third Annual Benefit 
Luncheon/Fashion Show at 11:00 am 
at the Rivers Club, Oxford Center. 
Cost of the luncheon is $25 per person. 
To register, or for more information, 
call Carlows Alumnae Relations Of
fice at 578-6087.
Sunday, March 13 
Dr. Samuel Hays, Distinguished 
Service Professor of History at the 
University of Pittsburgh, will lecture 
on Two Centuries of Change in Pitts
burgh at 7:30 pm at the Historical 
Society Building, 4338 Bigelow, 
Oakland. Cost is $2 for non-Historical 
society members. For more informa
tion, call 681-5533.
Monday, March 14 
?Carlow College president Mary Lou
ise Fennell will present Are Women 
Really More Emotional? a discussion 
dealing with emotions and their man
agement. Noon at Kaufmanns. 
Wednesday, March 17 
Akram Midani. Dean of the Carnegie 
Mellon Fine Aits Department, will 
present A History of Russian Ballet 
in conjunction with Peace Links from 
10:00am-2:00pm at the Pittsburgh 
Ballet Theatre Building. The cost for 
the program is $20. For reservations, 
call Peace Links at 471-0302. 
Compiled by TERENCE SPIES
WANT TO PLAY BASEB
The CMU Bas
Practice has alreacfyifiRgun, but its not too late ...
Contact P 
or Br
or Rif(| at x4639 
at 682-1457
Funded by Student Activities Fee
Tired of the same old games?
Come to the CMU Ultimate 
Frisbee Club meeting:
TODAY (Mar.8) 7 pm 
MM 14
Womens Meeting: Thursday 3/10 
Skibo 12 6:30pm
Funded by Student Senate

---------------------------------------------------

March 8,1988The TartanPage 19
v COir eu hcyui eph uFF 9rhOruc
Rtisserie baseball: Turns 
fans into mongrel managers
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
O The realization hit me somewhere in the 
middle of May. Gary Carter, the fine catcher 
for the New York Mets, was not worth $36.
I had lost the bidding war for Eric Davis and 
avoided the maneuvering for Darryl Straw
berry. So I drafted Gary Carter, hoping he 
would carry the Stewed Prunes into first place 
in the Carnegie Mellon Rtisserie League. 
Instead, it was mid-May, Carter was batting
0 .235, and the Prunes had just slipped behind 
the Pierce Arrows and Wilkinson Warriors 
into the cellar.
What had happened? Why was I, an ardent 
Mets hater, wishing Carter would start bang
ing some home runs? I had discovered Rtis
serie Baseball, and had become a full-time fan.
Seven years ago, a group of fans met at the 
now-defunct Rtisserie Franaise restaurant 
 on New Yorks East Side and developed a 
system where fans could own major-league 
players. Each team owner drafts a team of 
major leaguers and watches them play their 
seasons. When it is all done, stats are totalled, 
and the winner gets a percentage of the money 
put up.
Last spring, seven friends of mine suc
cumbed to the madness. We scheduled our 
(* own auction of the National League for the 
Sunday after Carnival. In retrospect, it proba
bly was not the best time for it. The reason the 
Chris P. Crunchers stole Jack Clark for $15 
was at least partially due to the hangovers 
several of us suffered from the night before.
Spring Break turned into study-time. This 
long-time Yankee fan did not know Ron 
Robinson from Don Robinson or Jeff Robin, son and had to learn fast. Armed with a Street 
^ & Smith Yearbook and Lotus 1-2-3, I soon 
made my lists of NL players, and attempted to 
form a bidding strategy from lists of averages 
and totals.
One owner went to Florida that week. Luck
ily, he went to Ft. Lauderdale, Yankee and 
Oriole territory. He claims that he never left 
the beach. However, the Chris P. Crunchers 
had an incredible draft two weeks later and
1 spent the entire year in first place.
Rtisserie Baseball, unlike the real thing, is 
half pitching and half hitting. Teams are 
compared in four offensive and four catego
ries. With only $260 to spend, I looked at the 
roster structure. Although pitching counts for 
50% of your performance, it was only 40% of 
my roster. I loaded up on blue-chip pitchers. 
^ In the auction, I quickly scooped up Todd 
Worrell for $32, then added Lee Smith ($18), 
John Franco ($15), and Roger McDowell 
($14). Since you are rated by saves, earned run 
average, and hits plus walks given up per 
inning, as well as wins, I figured that a highquality relief corps was the answer.
To round out the staff, Ron Darling ($30), 
Mike Krukow ($18), and Danny Cox ($15) 
came next. I had a relatively weak lineup, but 
' 1 figured that my staff would be more than
enough.
Other owners had different strategies. The 
Crunchers went for all-out hitting with Davis, 
Clark, Von Hayes, and Juan Samuel. He 
thought he could win on home runs, stolen 
bases, runs batted in, and batting averages.
Then DFtst was the Only The Good Die 
Young/Sanders Trappers strategy, get as 
many Dodgers/Mets as you can. Five hours 
later, two hundred National Leaguers were 
now working for two paychecks, their real 
ones paid by Peter OMalley and Nelson 
Doubleday, and Rtisserie salaries from the 
Markon Martinis and the Druggies and the 
Cripples.
As they say, April is the cruelest month. 
McDowell was hurt, and Worrell, Darling, and 
Krukow got off to horrendous starts. Further
more, my lineup with stiffs like Craig Nettles 
($1), Herm Winningham ($7), and Rafael 
Santana ($1) performed exactly to my expec
tations; they sat on the bench as my team 
quickly found the cellar.
So, I did what any owner would do, I pan
icked. Traded and cut were: Todd Worrell, 
Graig Nettles, Tim Wallach, Tim Flannery, 
Robby Thompson, and Joe Cowley. Don 
Robinson, Chris Brown, Vance Law, Tim 
Raines, Neal Heaton, and Danny Walling tried 
to replace them.
Some of these moves proved better than oth
ers, Tim Raines and Don Robinson had career 
years, unfortunately so did Todd Worrell and 
Tim Wallach. At the end of July, my Prunes 
were as high as second, just knocking on the 
door to first place and fifty percent of the cash 
we had spent. October came, and I was in 
fourth, behind the Crunchers, Kirks Cream
ers, and the Druggies and the Cripples, just out 
of the money.
The season changed my lifestyle. No longer 
would I just watch a Yankee game. Owning 
Dave Dravecky and Steve Trout forced me to 
watch some Expo-Cub games that could be 
used as Chilean torture devices.
Checking the morning box scores became a 
ritual. Thank goodness my hometown paper 
ran the scores from all of the late night games, 
otherwise I would have been forced to sub
scribe to USA Today. My co-workers immedi
ately knew how my team did, if Tim Raines 
stole two bases and hit a home run, Id buy 
donuts for everyone. However, if Mike 
Krukow got bombed (like he often did), I 
wouldnt talk to anyone.
Now is the tough part. Spring training has 
just started and I need to decide who will be 
back on the Prunes next year. Ive already 
traded Gary Carter away to another owner, but 
I still have Ron Darling and his $30 salary. Can 
he regain his 1986 form and play like a $30 
pitcher, or should I try to trade him, or should
I just release him and let everyone bid on him 
again?
George Steinbrenner is lucky, he can spend 
as much money as he wants building his team,
I only have $260 for 23 players. Theres a bal
ance that needs to be struck between the high 
salaries of Eric Davis and Mike Scott, and $ 1 
players like Jose Uribe and Mike Diaz. Thats 
why its so important to make sure if you spend 
$31 on Lance Parrish, he had better hit $31 
worth of home runs.
Our 1988 auction is only two months away, 
and I have no idea how the ten teams in our 
league will do. All I know is that this year Im 
going to win a share of the cash, maybe that 
will pay for all of the newspapers and long
distance phone calls.
Want to make the off-season more fun?
feature stories, or cover the spring sports Be at the meeting tonight at 7:30 in the Tartan 
office to find out how you can get involved.
Hockey team halted in 
championship game
lh:Df:atw Wshr b6Ot c(
Carnegie Mellon tightened up. A minute 
latter Jim Larsen, playing his first game at 
right wing, scored the last goal of the game 
from a well placed Timmons pass.
McGinn commented on coach Bobby 
Cooks decision to move Larsen up to wing 
by saying, It really helps Greg having Jim 
up there. Hes abig player, and he can cause 
a lot of things to happen in the offensive 
zone that he cant do standing on the blue 
line.
The Tartan victory was marked by good 
play on both ends of the ice. McGinn com
mented that the forwards did a superb job of 
backchecking. This helped the defensemen
keep Pitt attackers away from the Tartan 
net.
In particular Kerber noted, The centers 
were back in the middle covering up. Mark 
Robson is a perfect example of this. It was 
just all around great defense.
It was this kind of heads-up play that had 
allowed Carnegie Mellon to finish off their 
last regular season week with two wins and 
a tie. They beat both Allegheny College (7-
2) and West Virginia University (4-1) 
while they tied Penn State West (6-6).
The team finished the season with an 
WPCHA record of 7-3-4 (8-7-4) overall. 
This put them in third place for the the 
regular season behind Gannon and Pitt.
Championship Game Box Score
Gannon 6, Carnegie Mellon 5 
Period Scoring
Carnegie Mellon 0 3 2 5
Gannon 3 2 1 6
Shots on Goal
Carnegie Mellon 10 11 12 33
Gannon 17 7 12 36
First Period Scoring 
Gannon 0:46 Black (Ajresti, J. Sala) 
Gannon 1:49 Bosson (unassisted) 
Gannon 10:15 Faulkner (Wyllie, Ritts) 
Penalties 
CMUFrey (Cross Checking) 1:49 
Nave (Hooking) 2:35 
Nave (Hooking) 7:04,
Bench (Too many men) 8:26 
GannonFaulkner (Interference) 5:04 
Bench (Too many men) 7:14 
Second Period Scoring 
CMU 0:10 Larsen (Savian,Timmons) 
Gannon 3:55 Black (J. Sala)
CMU 4:11 Blackwood (unassisted) 
CMU 7:50 Blackwood (Savian)
Gannon 14:32 Gorski (DeNobik)
Penalties
CMUTimmons (Hooking) 0:59 
Frey (Roughing) 5:47 
GannonLockwood (Interference) 5:05 
Lockwood (Charging) 7:34 
Gorski (Holding) 8:06 
Sala (Tripping) 9:18 
Third Period Scoring 
CMU 0:27 Paille unassisted 
CMU 4:35 Blackwood (Larsen) 
Gannon 6:07 Gorski (DeNobik) 
Penalties 
CMULarsen (High Sticking) 12:45 
Timmons (Misconduct) 14:54 
GannonJ. Sala (High Sticking) 12:45 
Black (High Sticking) 12:45 
Goaltenders 
Carnegie Mellon - Kerber 
Gannon - Rees
Referees: Pat Sutton, Mark Mangan 
Time: 1:44
* i x-7 v $ gas
t ffcM-h'h<r)7-7 ?  )Va 88*1-#C7)
) 7il b l . S. A. K'o
RECRUIT U.S.A., INC. (800) 325-9759
CITICORP PLAZA, 725 S. FIGUEROA ST., SUITE 3100 
LOS ANGELES, CA 90017 ^ PHONE: (213) 955-4900

---------------------------------------------------

' 
Page 20The TartanMarch 8,1988
Coleman retires as a Tartan
Rv JmHL 1yE88A-P
Tartan Staffwriter
When the mens basketball team played its 
final game of the 1987-88 season, it marked 
the end of an era; the Hart Coleman era.
Coleman played his last game in a Tartan 
uniform last week as the Tartans fell to Wash
ington & Jefferson. What should have been a 
game in which Coleman was spotlighted 
turned instead into a game of controversy, as 
Coleman was ejected in the fourth quarter after 
a shouting match with the referee.
I overreacted to various things that hap
pened in the game, Coleman said, I wasnt 
playing well; from the start of the game, I 
didnt play up to my capabilities or expecta
tions. But the referees let things really get out 
of hand as far as all the pushing and shoving 
that was going on underneath the basket. 
Towards the end of the game, I felt it was time 
to say something.
But not even the disappointing final game, in 
which Coleman was held to nine points, could 
diminish the accomplishments of his four year 
career at Carnegie Mellon. The Pittsburgh 
native recently surpassed the 1000 career 
point mark, and soon after reaching that pla
teau, he became Carnegie Mellons third alltime leading scorer, netting 1,249 career 
points.
1 m very proud of my accomplishments this 
year, said Coleman. Coming out of high 
school I was not heavily recruited. I was not 
looked upon as a scorer back then, and I didnt 
expect to become a scorer here.
Coleman provided one of the bright spots in 
a somewhat disappointing season for the Tar
tans. The team finished with a disappointing 
record in spite of having what Coleman says 
was one of the better teams in the league.
From the first man to the last man, we had a 
really good team, he said, We just couldnt
put it together. We couldnt get five people on 
the floor playing together every night like we 
needed, and our record shows that.
One of the few things Coleman was not able 
to accomplish was winning a championship. 
Throughout his four year career, the Tartans 
continually fell short of number one, some
thing that Coleman regrets.
I still believe that we had the best teams each 
year, and I definitely would have liked to have 
won a championship. It would have been nice 
to be on top at least one time, to be called a 
champion.
Coleman said it hasnt sunk in yet that he will 
never play in a Tartan uniform again, and that 
his college career is over.
Im not very sentimental, but I know itll hit 
me sooner or later that its over, he said. Im 
just glad that I was given the opportunity to 
come to CMU, play basketball, obtain a qual
ity education, and have fun while doing so.
photo by Kelley Albert
ghetr6:Su 6OOstuuf,t:tuu a:wts DFt 
.h6swu *fee .t Ost6Dev rfuutw4
You Have the Answers.
The real-world problems of government, industry 
and commerce demand solutions. Quick, effective 
solutions. TASC solutions.
For over two decades, TASC has applied innovative, 
computer-based analytic methodologies to the 
understanding and optimization of complex systems. 
Were committed to putting knowledge to work in 
unconventional ways. The possibilities are endless. 
And they depend on people like you. People with the 
independent thought and analytic abilities that have 
fostered at TASC a unique combination of advanced 
technology and problem-solving techniques.
Here, we offer a small-team environment, project 
follow-through, interdisciplinary contacts and inhouse educational opportunities. Our project diversi
ty calls for flexibility, objectivity, and the ability to 
expand your knowledge in a variety of ways to 
discover real answers to complex systems problems.
Academically, 75% of our staff is at the MS and PhD 
level. And we provide them with superior technical 
and administrative support and the latest computer 
hardware/software. We use state-of-the-art methods 
from estimation, control and optimization theory to 
advanced modeling and simulation techniques  
many of which were developed at TASC. Its a 
dynamic, challenging environment where the in
dividual makes a difference. And were located only 
minutes from the educational and cultural centers of 
Boston and Washington DC, with other locations 
throughout the country.
If youre receiving an MS or PhD in Electrical 
Engineering, Systems Engineering or Com
puter Science (with emphasis on engineering 
and scientific application), the world could use 
the answers you can provide through TASC.
TASC will be interviewing on-campus shortly. 
See your College Placement Office for details.
THE ANALYTIC SCIENCES CORPORATION
55 Walkers Brook Drive 
Reading, MA 01867
An Equal Opportune y Employer. M/F 
U.S Citizenship requred
o
Q
a

---------------------------------------------------

March 8,1988The TartanPage 21
CALGARY GAMES END
The XV Winter Olympiad came to a 
close last week. The United States fin
ished with six medals 2 gold, 1 silver, 
and 3 bronze. It was a very disappointing 
Olympics for many, typified by the per
formance of Debi Thomas, the USs top 
top figure skater. Thomas was leading 
going into the final long program, but 
three faults dropped her down to third, 
behind East Germany  s Katarina Witt and 
Canadas Elizabeth Manley.
The United States number 1 bobsled 
team finished a surprising fourth, as they 
won the fourth and final run in the four 
man bobsled race. The final sled down the 
course, Russia 1, edged the total time of 
the US by two hundredths of a second in 
a very exciting final run, stealing the 
bronze away from the US.
KUENN DEAD AT 57
Former Milwakee Brewers head coach 
Harvey Kuenn died last week at age 57. 
Kuenn, who managed the Brewers to the 
American League pennant in 1982, and 
was 87-75 in 1983, then resigned to be
come a scout. Kuenns playing days as a 
shortstop were impressive: in his fifteen 
years in the big leagues he hit .303, and 
was named the 1953 Rookie of the Year 
with the Detroit Tigers. Kuenn also won 
the 1959 AL batting title with a .359 
average.
RUSSIANS STUDY DODGERS
Guela Chirkhradze and Alexander 
Ardatov have started a three week stay in 
the United States to study the game of 
baseball. The two are coaches in the new 
Soviet national program. They are visit
ing the US studying the game in an effort 
to bring baseball to the Soviet Union. 
They started their trip with a stay at the 
Dodgers training camp in Vero Beach, 
Florida. One of the major reasons that 
Russia is diving into baseball so much 
lately is that the sport will be a full medal 
event starting with the 1992 summer 
games in Barcelona, Spain. Baseball was 
an exhibition event in the 1984 games in 
Los Angeles.
TIGERS AND ORIOLES DEAL
1986 World Series MVP Ray Knight 
was traded from the Baltimore Orioles to 
the Detroit Tigers. The third baseman was 
exchanged for pitcher Mark Thurmond.
NCAA TOURNAMENT FEVER
This coming Sunday, the NCAA will 
announce the 64 team field for the Divi
sion I National Basketball Champion
ship. This week some of the major confer
ences begin their tournament schedule to 
determine who will get the automatic bid. 
Such is the case in the Big East, where six 
teams, including Pittsburgh, have good 
chances of being included in the elite 64 
team chase for the crown. The defending 
National Champions are the Indiana 
Hoosiers.
LAKERS CLINCH PLAY-OFFS
The Los Angeles Lakers are currently 
the only NBA team who have a guaran
teed spot in the NBA play-offs which are 
just around the comer. The Lakers, aside 
from having the best record in the NBA 
(46-10), are also 10 1/2 games ahead of 
the second place Portland Trailblazers in 
the Pacific Division.
Lady Tartans finish fourth in PAC
By NATALIE HAWRYLUK
4OaeOc 0eOFF:a,eha
The 1987-88 womens basketball season 
ended almost the way the team wanted it. The 
Lady Tartans almost reached the .500 mark, 
ending the season at 12-13, which was almost 
good enough for third place in the Presidents 
Athletic Conference. Junior guard Lisa Lightner almost scored her 1000th career point. 
Almost. Carnegie Mellon split their last two 
games of the season, defeating Bethany 70-62 
and losing to Washington & Jefferson 47-43.
Last Thursday, the Lady Tartans travelled to 
Washington & Jefferson for a game against the 
First Ladies that would decide the third place 
winner of the PAC. Both teams started slowly, 
waiting almost two and a half minutes to put 
two points on the scoreboard.
The Lady Tartans played tough defensively, 
but they had trouble offensively, hitting only 10 
of 38 shots (26.3%) in the first half. W & J, on 
the other hand, did not handle the ball well on 
offense, but the First Ladies were able to hit 
35.5% of their shots (11 of31).The First Ladies 
led by as many as 5 points with three and a half 
minutes to play, but Carnegie Mellon took a 24-
23 lead into the locker room at halftime.
The second half of the game was very 
much like the first, with the lead changing 
hands many times during the first 13 min
utes. With 7:25 left to play in the game and 
CMU leading 39-38, W & J went on a 7-0 
scoring streak, eating six minutes off the 
clock before the Lady Tartans were able to 
score. W & J went on to win 47-43.
Trish Chorgo and Lightner led the Lady 
Tartans offensively with 12 and 11 points 
respectively, while Chorgo and Aimee 
Reber took control of the boards for Carne
gie Mellon, combining for 26 rebounds. 
Kelly Stacy, W & Js single season scoring 
leader, paced the First Ladies with 20 points, 
while Marybeth Armstrong added another 
11 for W&J.
Last Tuesday, the Lady Tartans played 
host to the Lady Bisons of Bethany College. 
Carnegie Mellon jumped out to an early 10- 
4 lead, but quick fouls by Chorgo and Beth 
Virgin allowed Bethany to tie the game at 14 
with almost 11 minutes left in the first half. 
The lead went back and forth between the 
two teams for the rest of the half, with
Bethany coming out on top, 40-37.
The second half saw two new teams on the 
court. Both teams got off to good starts, playing 
a close and well-matched game. The lead 
changed hands seven times and it was not until 
the last three minutes of the game that the Lady 
Tartans took control. A 9-1 scoring run insured 
their 12th win of the season, the final score 70- 
62.
Four Lady Tartans scored in double figures 
Val Kwaitkowski with 17, Lightner and Virgin 
with 13 each, and Reber with 10. Chorgo led the 
Lady Tartan rebound attack, crashing the 
boards successfully 17 times, while Reber 
pulled down 13 rebounds. Denise Doster and 
Lisa Wise were high scorers for the Lady Bi
sons with 21 and 16 points respectively.
The Lady Tartans finished 6-6 in the PAC and 
3-2 in the University Athletic Association. It 
was a good season, it was almost a great ortfe.
On the plus side for the Lady Tartans, Lisa 
Lightner was named as a starter on the All-PAC 
team. Joining Lightner are Cindy Bynum from 
Thiel, Carolyn Cochrane from Grove City, 
Michaela Kempton of John Carroll, and Kelly 
Stacey of Washington and Jefferson.
How to stand outin a crowd.
 TIWL
RELATED
SERVICES
The American Express* Card gets an outstanding welcome 
virtually anywhere you shop, whether it's for a leather jacket 
or a leather-bound classic Whether you re bound for 
a bookstore or a beach in Bermuda So during college 
and after, it's the perfect way to pay for just about 
everything you'll want
How to get the Card now.
College is the first sign of success And because we 
believe in vour potential, we've made it easier 
to get the American Express Card right now 
Whether you're a freshman, senior or 
grad student, look into our new automatic 
approval offers For details, pick up an 
application on campus 
Or call 1-800-THF.-CAR1) and ask for 
a student aj>plication 
The American Express Card 
Don't Uave School Without Itf*

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanMarch 8,1988
photo by Kelley Albert
H6st: AhWW6DD sheeu DFt .6ee f: 6O6f:uD JhF: g6sshee f: 6: t6sev O6rt DFfu ut6uh:4
Ch33l ydre :O,e Me,33 chbe ihOaf
Mens basketball finishes 
up a frustrating season
a hostile audience.
For the first few moments, the Tartans 
seemed to overcome the crowd. Carnegie 
Mellon started the game with a 9-2 tear. 
However, early leads do not guarantee wins.
The Bisons fought back with three-pointers 
from their long-range bombers. Don McFar
land and Bill Gallagher started shooting from 
outside as Bethany attempted to climb back.
Meanwhile, the Tartans were ice-cold, with 
the exceptions of Darryl Long and Hart Cole
man. The two inside men accounted for 23 of 
their teams 29 first-half points while Carne
gie Mellon clung to a 29-27 halftime lead.
The Tartans led, but the momentum had 
clearly swung towards the Bisons. Sensing the 
shift, the Bethany crowd got into the act, and 
the referees started to freeze up. Obvious tech
nicals went uncalled. These included Bill 
Gallagher hanging on a rim for two seconds 
and a roll of toilet paper just missing Carnegie 
Mellon Head Coach Larry Anderson.
As the second half began, Bethany was ready 
to play, but the Tartans werent. The Bisons 
started hitting almost every shot they took. 
Despite a 40% first-half shooting percentage, 
the Bisons were good enough to end the night 
at 55% Wshr the floor, the best of any team 
Carnegie Mellon faced this season.
The game eventually turned into a shaD 
Zalacca had his revenge with a 78-66 victory. 
There was no word who had won the free keg.
Coleman led the Tartans for the fourth con
secutive night with 25 points while Darryl 
Long added 23, his best showing since the 
Carnegie Mellon Tournament in November. 
Bethanys Ron Bozick led all scorers with 27.
Carnegie Mellon closed out the season in 
Washington against the only PAC team to beat 
them at home, Washington and Jefferson.
The Tartans showed their usual road malaise, 
taking four and a half minutes to get on the 
scoreboard. Carnegie Mellon, soon put on a 
spurt. They rallied to take a 17-15 lead on a 
Daren Moffatt jump shot.
President Tim Stephenson answered back 
with a three-pointer seconds later and Wash
ington and Jefferson never trailed again. Weak 
shooting plagued the Tartans, as they only hit 
eight of 32 first-half shots, trailing 34-25.
The second half opened with Carnegie Mel
lon trying to come back. The Tartans ran off 
six straight points to close within three, then 
the offense sputtered. Five times, the Tartans 
would close to within three points, but they 
were never able to regain the lead.
Eventually Carnegie Mellon ran out of gas. 
The Presidents pushed their lead to ten when 
the Tartans frustrations finally came to bear. 
Out of desperation, with 54 seconds remain
ing, Long fouled W&Js Danny Jones.
Long protested the foul and received a tech
nical as a result. Then Hart Coleman got into 
the act and by the time he had been separated 
from the officials, he had three technicals and 
the Carnegie Mellon bench was called for two 
more. Danny Jones spent the next five minutes 
shooting free throws, making nine of 13. 
Suddenly the Tartans were down 19 points and 
their season was over. Baskets by Darryl Long 
and David Sikora made the final score 77-62.
Long led all scorers with 27 points, while 
Moffatt and'Coleman chipped in 12 and 9 
respectively. Andy Turzak in his final game 
for Washington and Jefferson had 25 points.
EWW DFt lhasDQ The Tartans closed out the 
season with three Senior Day games; the home 
team won all three...Hart Coleman finished the 
year first in the PAC in rebounding and second 
in scoring, earning him First-team All-PAC 
honors. Joining him are second-stringer Daren 
Moffatt with Darryl Long receiving Honor
able Mention...The Tartans finished the year 
1-10 on the road.
By 83C9-y3 0CTiPC 
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The 1987-88 season ended in usual fashion 
for the mens basketball team. The Tartans 
found two more ways to lose on the road. 
However, the ways in which they lost these 
games were quite unusual.
The week started with the teams trip to Be
thany. Carnegie Mellon had earlier handed the 
Bisons an 87-70 loss at Skibo Gym. The earlier 
meeting had been marred with a fight, and 
Bethanys Head Coach Jim Zalacca being 
thrown out of the game. The team had been 
warned they were walking into the lions den, 
and the predictions were on-target.
In addition to the team, the Bethany fans 
were laying in wait for Carnegie Mellon. - 
local pub had sponsored a dime beer hour 
before the game. There were also rumors that 
the same pub had staked a free keg to the 
loudest student group.
Needless to say, the crowd played its part to 
the hilt. The moment the Tartans stepped onto 
the court, they knew they were surrounded by
S O F T W A RE 
ENGINEERING
If you are a graduating student in Computer Science with expertise in operating systems, design tools, compilation or debuggers,wed like to meet you.
The Company
Rational was founded in 1980 to 
develop products which improve 
the productivity of software en
gineering teams building large and 
complex systerhs. The R1000 De
velopment System is now in use 
by leading aerospace, commercial 
and defense organizations.
The People
Rational is a team of highly moti
vated, creative individuals dedi
cated to the production of quality 
products that deliver value to 
customers.
The Product
Rationals R1000 provides a seam
lessly integrated environment for 
the design, implementation, docu
mentation, and maintenance of large 
software systems written in Ada.
It provides comprehensive facilities 
across the software lifecycle, in
cluding an Ada-compatible program 
design language, automatic generation 
of design documentation, interactive 
semantic analysis and design-rule 
checking, incremental compilation, 
configuration management and ver
sion control, and source-language 
debugging. Optimizing code genera
tors and cross-debuggers provide 
support for several popular appli
cation architectures.
.F iud :ud3o 3,Wh eu sh wOae uF 6Oe,ucO3 r Fdedah w3hOrh vuceOve eph 
AOahha D3Occ,cg Oco D3OvhRhce uFF,vh eu rvphod3h Oc ,ceham,h: :,ep 
6Oe,ucO3 uc BucoOil BOavp kNf Yud vOc O3ru rhco iuda ahrdRh eu 6Oe,ucO3l 
kJHk 0O3Oou La,mhl BudceO,c S,h:l An UNHN*f neect PdROc 6hrudavhrf 
Ch Oah Oc hEdO3 uwwuaedc,ei hRw3uihaf
RATIONAL

---------------------------------------------------

Scoreboard
IM NEWS
The next IM Board Meeting will be held 
Thursday, March 17th, at noon in the Gym 
Conference Room.
SPORTS IN SEASON
Floor Hockey
Majors - Eric Bittner x8650 
Intermediate - Jeff Cohen x4134 
Results are posted on the IM bulletin board. 
Changes to the schedule are up on the IM 
bulletin board.
Pinochle
Commissioner Pete Gaertner x5516 
Schedules are out and can be picked up in the 
IM office. Please play all matches as sched
uled. The third round matches should be 
played this week. Call all results into Peter.
Water Basketball
Commissioner Carl Bell x5509 
The water basketball lifeguard will be John 
Bender, at x4552. More teams could be used 
for this season. Sign up now in the IM office, 
gym room 102.
Table Tennis
Commissioner Stu Fox x4226 
Revised schedules are out and can be picked 
up in the IM office and as soon as possible. 
Please report all results to Stu or the IM office 
atx2214.
Basketball Foul Shooting
Commissioner Dan Michel x4684 
Shooting dates are March 15-16 from 6-8 pm 
in the Gym. The shoot-out will consist of 100 
shots in individual, and 500 shots in 5 person 
team competition.
Team Call Pool and Individual Call Pool
Commissioner Andy Segal x4436 
Please play all matches as scheduled and re
port all stuaeDu to Commissioner Segal.
Co-Rec and Team Badminton
Commissioner Stu Fox x4226 
Matches will be played Thursday, March 17 
^ in the main gym at 6:30.
Indoor Soccer
Commissioner A1 Margarella x5516 
Schedules are out and can be picked up in the 
IM office. Games will start March 7th.
8YEy38 gEAiP1 mY 
8*frrf:O
Commissioner Hal Levine x5981 
Meet Date will be Monday, March 21st, at 
the CMU pool starting at 4:30. Enter when 
your event is called. Get your team lined up 
now, and rules can be picked up in the IM 
office.
9tfOFD 0fWDf:O
Commissioner Keith Gorse x2222 
Please sign up in the IM office or call Keith.
I6:w.6ee
Commissioner E.J. Birdy x2214 
Last call for handball, sign your team up now 
in the IM office.
< h: < R6uUtD.6ee
Commissioner Dave Denhard 421-5155 
Entries are due March 10th at 4:30. Games 
will be played on Monday March 14th and 
Tuesday March 15th. Sign your team up as 
soon as possible.
2t:lf:O
Commissioner Cyle Sprick x4668 
Entries are due March 30th.
3sf6DF6eh:
Commissioner Mrs. Morosky x2075 
Meat will be held on April 30th. Get your 
team lined up now.
8hWD.6ee
Majors - Pat Jefferies x4299 
Intermediate - Stu Fox x4226 
Minors and Women - Stephanie Janczak 
x4229
Entries are due March 17th at 4:30 pm. Play 
will begin April 4th, in elimination tourna
ment format. No rescheduling will be done 
except for the weather. Play must be com
pleted by May 1st.
College Hockey Association Play-off Results 
First Round: Carnegie Mellon > q 4 0 UP
|;:||I13||||!:^ West Virginia University j & Peon State West
pgttnd Hound: Carnegie Melton . 
'7 Gannon University
Championship Hound: Gannon |
$ University of Pittsburgh
9 |i| WestVirginia University
Carnegie MeOon
2
\
' ; t
5
_______
IM STANDINGS
THE IM TICKER....
Last Thursday night, the 40th annual IM 
night was held, and it was nothing short of a 
night of champions. All three mens IM bas
ketball championships were played, while all 
of 1987-88 IM winners received their trophies. 
In the minors final, the Scobell Milkmen 
crushed PIKA Power by 12, as Bill Snyder led 
the Milkmen with a game high 23 points. In
a high scoring intermediate showdown, the 
Sudsuckers edged the Pioneers, 40-39. 
Leading the way for the Sudsuckers was Pat 
McCroskey, who netted 19 points. And in the 
evenings main event, The Squad handed the 
Drams a 63-51 drubbing. Leading the way for 
the champs was the seasons MVP, Jay 
Glaspy.
There were other championships handed out 
last week, as the King Busters garnered the IM 
chess title, while Double Trouble took the IM 
Backgammon crown. In one other match, the 
IM womens basketball final will be held 
tonight at 6 pm in the gym between SUPA and
5 C&D Players.
There will be a three-on-three basketball 
tournament, open to all non-varsity basketball 
players at CMU. The tournament is being 
sponsored by Air Force ROTC, and the CMU 
IM Department. The tournament dates are 
March 14, 15, and 16. Entry forms are avail
able in the IM office and can be left there, or at 
the Air Force ROTC lounge. This years direc
tor is Dave Denhard, and he can be reached at 
421-5155. Entries will be taken until March 
10th. A $3.00 entry fee will be required from 
each team. Every team must have at most three 
players. There will be a rules clinic meeting for 
all teams on Thursday, March 10th at 4:30 in 
the IM office.
Finally, the Officials Club is now taking 
members for indoor soccer. Those interested 
in joining should contact Assistant IM Direc
tor Mike Mastroianni at x2214. Pay will be at 
the University rate.
Tyrolia ski 
bindings recalled
By ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Tartan Photography Editor 
Tyrolia has decided to voluntarily recall 
certain 1982-1986 model Tyrolia ski bindings 
due to toe and heel lug breakage, which can 
pose a risk of serious injury to skiers. If these 
binding lugs break during usage, serious inju
ries associated with loss of control may occur.
If you have a pair of Tyrolia bindings model 
number 480, 290, 280, 230, 220, 190, 180, 
177,170,90 Junior or 80 Junior, there may be 
a potential problem with your bindings. 
Contact the nearest ski shop and they will tell 
you how to determine if your bindings are 
affected by this recall.
FLOOR HOCKEY STANDINGS
MAJORS 
POND SCUM 
THE NOYS OF BOLOGNA 
PHI KAP
MEXICAN EARTHQUAKES
DYNAMO
PIKA
SAE
DU
MINORS
NORTH
SUDSCUCKERS
PIONEERS
ZOO
THE BEAT
ESCAPE FROM NOISE
IM WRESTLING RESULTS
Kurt Zimmerman (155) GDI 
Scott Bamyk (174) Beta 
Dean Garfola (181) ATO 
Steve Stone (202) Beta 
Gale King (222) Beta 
Steve DiMartino (111) GDI 
MV Wrestler - King 
Team Trophy to Beta
5 teams 
15 wrestlers
IGSSOUTHWLT
PI LAM300
WLTSLOPE OF VENUS210
400THETA XI110
400AEPI020
220BOSS HOGS020
220
220EASTwLT
040DTD220
130CIA130
130TRANSFORMERS201
MOOSE JAW WARRIORS301
SDC020
wLTHAMMER SLAMMERS120
210
310WESTWLT
300SIG TAU200
030OUTLAWS110
030AFROTC200
KDR030
LEES ARMY120
l\ine in to Sportsline 
on WRCT (88.3 FM) 
this Thursday night 
at 8:30.
This weeks guests 
will be members of 
the Hockey team.
Presidents Athletic Conference
Y -gK9hrt:90m--KAt:90
3Ffteddcq96uFf:ODh:pd
JhF: g6ssheedx<qRs6:w!fu(c
96uF4 GJtWW4jJyhlFtuDts<
g6s:tOft Ateeh:'-PLm'
1sh,t gfDvICrhsv'j
Ifs6r(ng6s:tOft Ateeh:c<
RtDF6:vxdcg6ut 9tuDts:c
4p,h3 ohFhOeho 1upc AOaau33 ,c OgFfl6Ohdn
vpORwu,crp,w w3OiuFF gORh 3OreJhF:u IhbUf:uxd
:hhWff
m-- At:KE,ts6ee90
Y-g 9hrt:KE,ts6ee9096uFf:ODh:cx'
3Fftedp(yhlFtuDtsdnn
JhF: g6ssheedx<PLmddd
96uF4 G JtWW4dcddCrhsvddd
g6s:tOft Ateeh:dcd<Rs6:w!fud<d<
Ifs6rdxddJhF:u IhbUf:udcdc
1sh,t gfDvjdg6s:tOft Ateeh:pdc
RtDF6:vccdgFfl6Oh'd
g6ut 9tuDts:<cd
-eeKY-g 3t6rK9hrt:
gf:wv Rv:ar )3K2hs*6sw5gt:Dts 
g6shev: ghlFs6:t)1gKgt:Dts 
0fu6 0fOFD:ts )gAmK16asw 
AflF6te6 trbDh: )JgKgt:Dts 
teev 8D6ltv )9GJK2*w45gt:Dts
-eeKY-g 3t6rKAt:
-:wv JaFhe6 )JgmK2hs*6sw 
gs6fO IaWWr6: )JgmK16asw 
I6sD ghetr6: )gAmKgt:Dts 
H6::v Jh:tu )9GJK16asw52hs*6sw 
Jht RalUetv )1gK2hs*6sw
m

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan
PORT
IM  CLUBS  VARSITY  PROFESSIONAL
The Pittsburgh sports scene:
Basketball: Pitt Panthers 85
Syracuse Orangemen 84 
Hockey: Winnipeg Jets 8 Penguins 3 
Spring Baseball: Texas 11 Pirates 1
Mens swimming wins PAC
Perkins earns Coach of the Year honors
Rv H-TC 9i00i8
Tartan StaffMriter
The Carnegie Mellon mens swimming team 
won the Presidential Athletic Conference 
Championships while the womens team fin
ished in an impressive second place last week. 
Such a fine showing capped off an excellent 
season for Coach Jim Perkins and earned him 
the Coach of the Year award.
The mens team defeated Grove City, PAC 
champions for three years in a row. The 
women finished behind John Carroll, which 
has won for the third consecutive year.
Excellent individual performances 
abounded at the meets, as Tartan swimmers 
were responsible for five PAC records. The 
standout for the men was senior Whitney 
Foster, who was victorious in the 50, 100, and 
200 yard freestyle and was a member of three 
of Carnegie Mellons first place relay teams. 
Foster was named co-MVP. along with Grove 
Citys Doug Oyler.
Other Tartans finishing in first included Paul 
Moran in the 100 and 200 yard backstrokes, 
Pat Hensler in the 500 yard freestyle and Greg 
Schooley. in the 200 yard butterfly. Schooley,
who will be Carnegie Mellons representative 
at the NCAA Championships later this month, 
continued his strong performances in the event 
with a time of 1:58.05.
The T artans won four of the five relay events, 
including the 200, 400, and 800 yard freestyles, and the 400 yard medley. The team of 
Foster, Hensler, Hal Levine, and Jaffe finished 
with a PAC record time of 1:30.37 in the 200 
yard freestyle.
Despite their second place finish, the 
womens team more than held their own
against champion John Carroll. Francesca 
Crannell capped an outstanding season with 
three first place finishes. She set PAC records 
in the 50 and 100 yard freestyles, with times of 
25.29 and 56.64 seconds, respectively. She 
also placed first in the 200 yard breaststroke.
Amy Stempel posted two victories of her 
own, winning the 100 yard butterfly and fin
ishing with a record 2:21.73 in the 200 yard 
individual medley. Crannell and Stempel were 
each members of the Lady Tartans winning 
relay teams in the 200 yard freestyle and the 
200 yard medley. They finished the latter in a
record time of 2:01.93. 3Ft Utv Dh DFt u*fr teams winning seasons were in practice in Skibo Gyms pool.
PuvWhi ehOR hcor O F,ch rhOruc ,c ahrwhveOs3h FOrp,ucy"' fIce Tartans fall to Gannon in play-offs
By NEAL A. LEVENE &
JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Staflwriters
For the second time in two years, the Carne
gie Mellon Ice Tartans reached the finals in the 
Western Pennsylvania Collegiate Hockey 
Association play-offs, only to fall in a hardfought 6-5 contest Last year, the spoiler was 
Duquesne; this season the Gannon Golden 
Knights staved off late Carnegie Mellon ral
lies to capture the championship.
Gannon took an early lead as the Tartans 
spotted the Golden Knights to two early goals, 
and surrendered an additional score to 
Gannons J.D. Faulkner, putting Carnegie 
Mellon down 3-0 at the end of the first period.
A though Gannon sewed twice more in the 
second period, three Tartan goals, including 
two by John Blackwood, helped narrow the 
gap to 5-3. Blackwood scored eight goals in 
the Tartans three playoff games, including 
two hat tricks.
Carnegie Mellon saved the real heroics for 
the third period. Blackwood followed up 
freshman Craig Pallis goal with his third of 
the game to tie the contest at five. But a Larry 
DeNobile pass off the face off to Dan Gorski at 
8:53 of the third period gave Gannon the 
game-winning sixth goal.
In the first round of the play-offs the Tartans 
cleanly took care of the Indiana University of 
Pennsylvania Apaches. The game ended in a 
5-2 Tartan win. Although Carnegie Mellon 
had experienced their share of trouble taking 
care of the Apaches in the regular season, the 
Tartans, a team that traditionally rises to the 
occasion of the play-offs, made short work of 
the less experienced I UP skaters in a relatively 
easy win.
In this game, a John Blackwood hat trick 
allowed Carnegie Mellon to skate to a 5-1
victory over the University of Pittsburgh Pan
thers giving the Tartans a birth in the West 
Penn College Hockey Association (WPCHA) 
Championship.
The attitude that we have had has been up 
and down all year, stated s enior defenseman 
Sean McGinn. Before this game it was up. 
Everyone was really psyched up for it. Weve
known all along that were better than Pitt. 
Carnegie Mellon had control over this game 
from the first drop of the puck to the final 
buzzer. The first score came at 1:47 of the first 
period where Blackwood scored his first of 
three goals off a pass from Craig Palli and 
Todd Henderson.
Blackwood, named PHI Player of the Game,
was able to use basically the same maneuver 
time after time against the befuddled Pitt de
fenses. Blackwood explained, Ive been 
working on that upper comer shot all year. I 
slope at the blue line, slowing up their defense. v
I take a couple of big strides and go around 
him. I cant even see the upper comer from 
there but I know its open. I shoot it there and 
it is in.
The second period was all CMU. On the 
same play from a Palli pass and again at the 
1:47 mark, Blackwood knocked in his second 
goal past Pitt goalie, Chris Studabaker.
Two minutes latter, Greg Timmons, who v 
finished the regular season leading th league 
in points with 36 (28 goals and 8 assists), 
scored from a pass from winger Paul 
Martinchich.
Finally, with four minutes left in the period, 
Blackwood scored the hat trick unassisted on 
a power play that made the score at the end of 
of the second period 4-0.
Commenting on Blackwoods goals, sopho- i 
more left winger Todd Henderson exclaimed, 
They were all three exact mirrors of each 
other. Exactly alike! If you saw one, you saw 
all three.
The Tartans lost a little of their control in the 
early moments of the third period. Pitts Craig 
Clonts sneaked behind the defensemen and 
was posting out in front of the net. An alert 
Mark Robson saw the Pitt center, rushed in, 
and took Clonts out of the play only seconds 
before the puck arrived at Clonts feet. Both 
players received penalties for roughing, but 
Robsons move prevented an otherwise easy 
goal at an important point in the game.
Shortly after both penalties had expired, 
Pitts Randy Gettling found the empty net after 
drawing goalie John Kerber out of position.
continued on page 19 0
photo by Andy Gillespie
36sD6: *f:Ots Ht::v 2stv FhhUu ab a YfDD wtWt:utr6: 6u DFt 36sD6:u uU6Dtw DFtfs *6v
Dh DFt be6vKhWWu t6sefts DFfu ut6uh:4

---------------------------------------------------

D
The Tartan
IVERSION
ENTERTAINMENT  COMICS  CALENDAR  CLASSIFIEDS
I INSIDE I
JEC RER444444444444444444444
Its your chance to decide the Drive-In
Academy Awards
Am8ig444444444444444444444444444444Y6Ot H(
Frank Zappa: He came, hes back, but is he
worth seeing?
82ch uF eph F7chre auvW sOcor uF O33 e,RhfffG
Graffiti to host New Rhythm & Blues Quartet
By MARK BENISH
Tartan Contributing Editor
If youre a senior, or were attending CMU in 
the spring of 1985, you probably know about 
NRBQ. Theyre the band that played Carnival, 
and it was the best show you never saw. You 
were probably somewhere else on campus, not 
viewing the free concert like I was, thinking 
that a group whose name has no vowels 
couldnt be any good. (This publication didnt 
even think they were good enough to be re
viewed or previewed.) You were wrong.
NRBQ is acknowledged as one of the finest 
rock bands of all time by all sort of folk. They 
have recorded albums with Carl Perkins and 
country music great Skeeter Davis. They 
count among their fans Pat Metheny, Keith 
Richards of The Rolling Stones, and Elvis 
Costello. Costello said of the quartet, Id 
much rather any day go see NRBQ playing 
than any one of our illustrious punk bands in 
England. Id rather be hit in the face with a 
meat pounder than listen to an illustrious 
English punk band, but Costellos comment is 
still testimony to the quality of NRBQ.
NRBQ will be returning to Pittsburgh to play 
at Graffitti this Thursday. Their roots music 
style, imitated by such modem bands as The 
Del Fuegos and The Blasters, will surely at
tract a wide variety of people to the Oakland 
nightspot. When asked what a typical NRBQ 
audience is like, Terry Adams, the groups 
pianist, said, Escaped convicts, alcoholics, 
and then the religious section, straight from 
the church. I dont expect Bishop Donald 
Wuerl, Pittsburghs new bishop, to saunter 
into Graffitti on Thursday, but you can bet the 
mortgage that there will be a unique mix of 
human beings (among other things) attending.
The members of the band are the same as they 
were when NRBQ formed in 1974. They arc
Is it the Blaster Bunny? No, its NRBQ, coming to Graffiti this week.
Adams, Joey Spampinato (bass), A1 Anderson 
(guitar), and Tom Ardolino (drums). All of 
them do vocals, and Terry, Joey, and A1 are the 
writers. Among the bands that have perfonued 
Adams songs are The Fabulous Thunderbirds, Bonnie Raitt, and The Long Ryders. 
Others that NRBQ has performed with include 
John Sebastian and Captain Lou Albano (The 
first is considerably more accomplished than 
the second). Their versatility and ability to rub 
elbows with various people is what has given 
NRBQ their mystique over the years.
Listening to one of the 12 NRBQ albums is 
either an invitation to mellow out or to get
psyched. Their songs range from the soft 
Ridin In My Car, to the silly Things We 
Like To Do to the charged-up Get Rhythm. 
There is no head-banging-kill-your-motherheavy metal or depressing kill-youself-andyour-parents music associated with the quar
tet. Only happy songs are played. Go listen to 
WASP or Suicidal Tendencies for that other 
gunk.
However, the best way to experience NRBQ 
is to see them live. They are excellent show
men that add a lot of comedy to their already 
great music. They have no set plan when they 
go to perform; they will play any of the close
Photo by Mike Saporito
to one thousand songs they know. They play 
anything from Johnny Cash to Sun Ra to the 
Chipmunks, along with their own stuff. It's a 
great mix of music and a great show-a far cry 
from an AC/DC concert.
So, with all these great things going for them, 
why in the hell havent they had a hit? Maybe 
it's because they are so unique in their style 
and their showmanship. Maybe it's because 
their style doesnt jibe with the times. In any 
case, we should all be thankful that they aren't 
so renowned that they can't afford to play at 
places like Tech Field or Graffitti. And we 
should also be thankful that Twisted Sister is.
Is it Cest Magnifique?: Can Can plays Heinz Hall
By STEPHANIE REEDY
Tartan Staffer iter
A National tour of Cole Porters Can Can 
starring Broadway legend Chita Rivera and 
the Radio City Music Hall Rockettes was 
presented by the Pittsburgh Broadway Se
ries and PACE Theatrical Group at Heinz 
Hall from March 1 to March 6.
The show is a light comedy and aims at 
little more than pure entertainment, and 
sometimes fails at even that. The plot is one 
of superficial occurrences, and despite 
Riveras dynamic performance, the show 
lacks the ability to captivate the audience.
The story is set in Paris in the Spring of 1893 
and centers around the Bal du Paradis, an 
illegal dance hall, and its owner La Mome 
Pistache (played by Chita Rivera). The first 
three scenes introduce the audience to Pis
tache and her dancers (the Rockettes), who 
pose as Laundresses by day and Can Can danc
ers at night Although the dance line is impres
sive because of its size and uniform appear
ance, the dancers sometimes lack the unity 
required for the precision dance steps per
formed. The songs in these scenes sound very 
similar and are easily forgettable.
The can can is illegal at this time in Paris, and
8
Photo by Bob Marshak/Joan Marcus
3Ft FfOFKUflUf:O y6wfh gfDv yhlUtDDtu 6st 6bbt6sf:O f: Can Can 6D Itf:V I6ee4
Pistache manages to stay in business by brib
ing or seducing city officials and policemen. 
She is successful in this scheme until a new 
judge, Aristide Forestier (played by Ron Holgate), appears at the Bal du Paradis. When 
Aristide realizes the illegal activity that is 
going on, his sense of duty to the law forces 
him to try to shut the dance hall down.
When Pistache is told by her dancers about 
the judges intent, she lures him to her office 
and attempts to seduce him by singing Cest 
Magnifique. Riveras performance is dy
namic and believeable, although not excep
tional. A funny scene results in which Aristide 
finds it difficult to resist Pistaches charms and 
finally gives in to her.
Aristide has Pistache and the Laundresses 
arrested, but finds himself falling in love with 
the sassy and sexy cabaret owner. He con
fronts her with his feelings at the controversial 
Beaux Arts Ball, and suddenly she, too has 
feelings for him as well. This is somewhat 
difficult to believe because there is not much 
development of either Aristides or Pistaches 
feelings before this. Their love for each other 
occurs so suddenly in the play that it doesn't 
seem plausible.
Pistache has a hard time dealing with her 
feelings for Aristide because he is a judge and 
she is a cabaret owner of Montmartre. When 
he professes his love to her she sings Allezvous en and wishes for him to go away. She
then submits a photo of him at the Ball which 
ruins his career as a judge. Apparently she 
does this to prevent him from loving her and 
causing problems.
Pistaches plan is somewhat successful. In 
the second act, Aristide tries to convince 
himself that he likes someone else by singing 
Its All Right With Me. He is unable to 
forget Pistache, however, and decides to 
continue to pursue a relationship with her. 
Ron Holgate's portrayal of Aristide is good 
although he seems to be more of a singer than 
an actor. His voice and range are well devel
oped but his portrayal of the character is 
somewhat boring and lacking in true emo
tion.
Pistache realizes her mistake in hurting 
Aristide and accepts her feelings for him 
when she sings Ive Got You Under My 
Skin. Her voice is perfect for the song and 
her dramatic performance is both believable 
and touching.
At the end of the play Aristide and Pistache 
overcome their differences by going into 
business together and successfully attempt
ing to legalize the can can.
Although the can can dancers seem to be a 
central part of the play they are really only of 
background importance to the plot. 
Throughout the show they are onstage and 
dancing but the dance steps are so similar in 
continued on page D3

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2The TartanMarch 8,1988
May we have the envelope, please?
The Drive-In Academy, after meeting in 
executive session for nine straight days at 
Dons Lamplighter in Kokomo, Indiana, has 
announced the nominees for the 1988 DriveIn Academy Awards, better known as the 
Hubbies, which will be awarded on the same 
night as the FAKE Academy Awards on The 
Movie Channel. The Academy also an
nounced that since Arnold Schwarzenegger 
is the only person ever to actually ACCEPT 
a Hubbie, that Arnold the Barbarian will be 
given the Academys first Lifetime 
Achievement Award and be retired from 
Best Actor competition after this season.
The Academy further announced that 
Shirley Slavegirl Simpson, a part-time 
waitress at Dons Lamplighter, will be given 
an additional award to be determined later in 
gratification for services rendered in 
Kokomo, Indiana.
Joe-Bob Goes To 
the Drive-In - 
The Drive-In 
Academy A wards
All qualified drive-in voters  defined by 
the Academy as anyone who breathes and 
cares  should vote for two nominees in 
each category and send all ballots to P.O. 
Box 33, Dallas, TX 75221.
May we have a drum roll please?
And the nominees are:
BEST FLICK
Evil Dead II: Zombiethon by Sam Raimi 
where theres STILL only one way to kill 
em  total dismemberment.
From Beyond: Slime glopola classic by 
Stuart Gordon about a giant green tuning 
fork that explodes the sex glands in your 
brain.
"The Hanoi Hilton: Leather straps, maniac 
smelly Cuban torture rooms, Ho Chi Hanna 
broadcasts, and the Lets make him twitch 
like a froggie telephone torture, in Lionel 
Chetwynds flick, the best Nam picture ever 
made.
Hellraiser: Clive Barkers masterpiece 
about a kinky Arab jungle sex-fiend hocuspocus swingers club thats so addictive that 
you beg to be flayed, frayed and filleted by a 
tribe of mutant needle-head octopus-face 
pus monsters with steel hooks and manacles. 
The Hidden: About a giant piece of 
pulsating outer-space caterpillar-guts with 
teeth that can jump down anybodys throat 
at any moment, take ova* their body, and go 
around stealin Ferraris, machine-gunnin 
banks, and ripping the guts out of cops for 
the fun of it
The Running Man: Paul Michael 
Glasers story about a Richard Dawson 
game show where convicts are shot through 
these Super Wild Mouse missile tubes into a 
war zone where they battle World Wrestling 
Federation members to death, hack em into 
little pieces, and win Lee Press-on Nails for 
members of the studio audience.
Unsane: Best foreign flick of the year, 
Dario Argentos Eyetalian gorefest starring 
Anthony Franciosa as a grinnin murder 
novelist who has dreams about a weird lesbo 
with red spiked heels.
BEST ACTOR
Claude Akins in The Curse, as the Biblethumping Farmer Green who cant under
stand why his apples are full of outer-space 
mucous and his wife is starting to look like 
Bette Davis and trying to carve the children. 
Charles Bronson in Death Wish 4, for 
running the national, anti-drug campaign:
Just Say Kaplooey.
Bruce Campbell in Evil Dead II, who 
gets rammed through windshields, pitched 
through doors, and watches his girlfriend
come up out of the grave and do a little 
TOPLESS dance for him before hes forced, 
out of love for her, to take her head and 
squish it in a vice.
Robert Carradine in Revenge of the Nerds
II, as Head Nerd Lewis Skolnick, Mister 
Pocket Protector himself, who carries the 
Nerd Revolution to Lauderdale.
Rutger Hauer in Wanted: Dead or Alive, 
where he buys a leather jacket, a harmonica, 
and a warehouse full of semi-automatic 
shoulder cannons and goes in search of the 
worlds most famous evil terrorist  the 
lead singer of KISS.
Frank Langella in Masters of the Uni
verse, as the evil Skeletor dressed up like a 
skullhead stagecoach driver.
Michael Moriarity in The Hanoi Hilton, 
as the prison camp commanding officer who 
gets his teeth kicked in for his country.
Donald Pleasance in Prince of Darkness, 
as the Catholic priest whos a little upset 
because one of the holiest Catholic guys 
MHHpr
*
the crazy nympho shrink thrill-junkie who 
cant get enough green sex juice.
Sybil Danning in Amazon Women on the 
Moon, as Queen of the Outer-Space 
Amazons.
Annette Funicello in Back to the Beach, 
who polka-dots us to death in her one-piece 
double-projectile ribbed-bodice swimsuits, 
reggaes on the beach, and pouts a lot.
Clare Higgins in Hellraiser, as the 
woman with cruel lips and laser eyes who 
will do ANYTHING for the zombie in the 
attic, even if it means sacrificing her ethics.
Wendy Lyon in Hello Mary Lou: Prom 
Night II, as the Linda Blair girl, for having 
the guts to show that body in full frontal 
nudity.
Caroline Munro in Slaughter High, the 
long-time drive-in queen of England, as the 
school tease who says to the nerd Hurry up, 
Sex machine, Im wet all over right before 
they dump his head in the toilet JUST FOR 
FUN.
For your Academy Award consideration -
died and left a book full of equations 
explaining how the devil lives in a 7- 
million-year-old glass cannister in the 
basement of an abandoned church in 
downtown El Lay and its causing a lot of 
maggots, worms, stinkbugs, dung beetles 
and face-eating ants.
Arnold the Barbarian in The Running 
Man, for wearing the worlds most Hawai
ian shirt, killing 26 people, and saying Im 
not into politics, Im into survival.
Oliver Smith in Hellraiser, as Frank the 
Monster who comes back from Devil Land 
with his skin ripped off and his blood 
vessels exposed and wants to get ROMAN
TIC with his old mistress.
Rod Steiger in The Kindred, as the 
genetic-DNA scientist who goes a little 
crazy and ends up with a 95-foot-tall son 
who looks like a giant octopus with herpes 
who likes to spray white donkey-pus in your 
eyes.
BREAST ACTRESS
Claudia Christian in The Hidden, as the 
deadly outer-space maniac in the body of a 
stripper.
Barbara Crampton in From Beyond, as
Surf Nazis Must Die.
Gail Neely in Surf Nazis Must Die, as 
the bereaved Big Mama, who checks out of 
a rest home, goes to a gun shop, says I 
wanna buy a gun thatll take the head off a 
honky at twenty paces, gets a big box of 
grenades, steals a Hells Angels bike, jumps 
in an Evinrude speedboat, and makes like 
Eisenhower on D-Day, wastin punkheads.
Suzee Slater in Chopping Mall, the new 
gratuitous-bosom drive-in queen, for 
exposing her enormous talents just long 
enough to get lasered by a killer maniac 
robot in an exploding-head scene.
Dona Speir in Malibu Express, as one of 
the four Playboy Playmates who save the 
world  the one with the largest talents.
Heather Thomas in Cyclone, who wears 
a yellow breasts-parachute bra in a punk bar 
and fights the CIA, the FBI, the motorcycle 
industry and, worst of all, is BETRAYED 
by her own aerobics teacher.
Corrine Wahl in Amazon Women on the 
Moon, for the scene where she sex-videos a 
man to death.
BEST DIALOGUE
Clause Akins in The Curse: Frances, 
you turned all nasty and ugly almost
overnight  I dont even hardly recognize 
you.
Edward Albert in Terminal Entry: You 
know, youve got that film-at-eleven look in 
your eye again.
Powers Boothe in Extreme Prejudice:
Sing for me, Sarita, put me in a good mood, 
so I wont wanna kill Jack no more.
Doug Bradley in Hellraiser: No tears, 
please, its a waste of good suffering.
Charles Bronson in Assassination: I 
dont wanna tie up with a terminal orgasm. 
Timothy Busfield in Revenge of the Nerds 
II: Anxiety makes me flatulent.
Michael Caine in Jaws: The Revenge:
Two Bahama Mamas, please!
Bruce Campbell in Evil Dead II: Am I 
fine? I just cut up my girlfriend with a 
chainsaw. Does that sound fine?
Elizabeth Cayton in Slave Girls From 
Beyond Infinity: Have you checked those 
hyperspace landing coordinates?
Richard Dawson in The Running Man:
You want ratings? I can get ten points for 
his biceps alone.
Karrie Emerson in Chopping Mall: Im 
sorry for getting hysterical, I guess Im just 
not used to being chased around a mall in 
the middle of the night by killer robots.
Erik Estrada in Hour of the Assassin:
Im no model.
Michael Little in Sweet Revenge: Kung 
fu is my life.
Carey Lowell in Down Twisted: *
NOTHING is more serious than rent, 
Michelle.
John Ratzenberger in House II: Ive 
seen this before and its always made my 
adenoids curdle.
Gene Simmons in Wanted: Dead or 
Alive: This will make Bhopal, India look 
like a minor traffic accident.
Louis Tripp in The Gate: You see, we 1 
accidentally summoned these demons who 
used to rule the universe to come back and 
take over the world.
Dawn Wildsmith in Surf Nazis Must Die: 
Slime-sucking Neanderthal! How dare you 
question my loyalty?
Rick Zunwalt in Over the Top: I drive 
truck, break arm, and arm rassle. Thats 
what I know. Thats what I do. I try to W
cripple the man.
BEST FU
Barbara Crampton in From Beyond: 
Eyeball-sucking stump-licking giant-linguini 
Fu.
Robert Englund in A Nightmare on Elm 
Street 3: Bloody wrist veins used as puppet 
strings Fu.
Morgan Fairchild in Campus Man: P
Lipstick Lizard Fu.
Louise Fletcher in Flowers in the Attic: 
Seventeen bloody lashes evil stepmother 
Bullwhip Fu.
David Alan Frier in Amazon Women on 
the Moon: Tie a Yellow Ribbon - Chim 
Chim Cheree Fu.
Annette Funicello in Back to the Beach:
The terrifying Pajama-Party Bunny Hop Fu.  
Rutger Hauer in Wanted: Dead or Alive: 
Oh-Shucks-I-Forgot-The-Miranda-WamingFu.
Jill Ireland in Assassination: Pancake 
makeup Fu.
Brain Keith in Death Before Dishonor: 
Exploding camel herders that never shave 
Fu.
Peter Linari in Fat Guy Goes Nutzoid: 0
Wounded Buffalo Fu.
Dolph Lundgren in Masters of the 
Universe: Wesson Body Oil Fu..
Andrew Robinson in Hellraiser: Giant 
dragonhead lizard-gut Fu.
Andy Sidaris in Hard Ticket to Hawaii: 
Ribber Snake Fu.
Robert Vaughn in Hour of the Assassin: 
Beatle Boot Fu. 9

---------------------------------------------------

March 8,1988The TartanPage D3
DH 2210 THIS WEEK
Thursday, March 10
The Cameraman
One of Buster Keatons classic films, demonstrating his prowess as a physical comedian. 
This was the film that truly brought him to the forefront and pretty much began the era of 
American silent comedy. 
Director. Edward Sedgwick, Jr.
Starring: Buster Keaton 
Showtime: 6
Goldrush
Charles Chaplins first masterpiece. He is a prospector who falls in love with a beautiful 
dance-hall girl (Georgia Hale). In spite of all his affections, she constantly spurns the poor 
guy. Though full of funny moments, such as the classic comedy skit of the scrumptious 
supper of a boiled boot, this is also a film about dealing with basic human needs. 
Director Charles Chaplin 
Starring: Charlie Chaplin, Mack Swain, Tom Murray, Georgia Hale 
Showtime: 8
*A Day at the Races
The Marx Brothers - Groucho, Harpo, and Chico - were at the peak of their fame in this 
MGM musical comedy. It is not as unrelentingly hilarious and outrageous as the films they 
made at Paramount, but it is nonetheless an enjoyable film. 
Director: Sam Wood 
Starring: The Marx Brothers, Allen Jones, Maureen O Sullivan, Margaret Dumont 
Showtime: 10
Friday, March 11
Spaceballs
A zany, wacky farce of all the really good science-fiction movies that you have ever seen. 
If you liked Star Wars, youll like this movie. If you like Mel Brooks, youll love this movie. 
Director Mel Brooks 
Starring: Mel Brooks, Rick Moranis, John Candy 
Showtimes: 6,8,10,12
Saturday, March 12
Roxanne
Steve Martin plays a modern-day Cyrano in love with Roxanne (Daryl Hannah). Martin 
is the well-liked Fire Chief of a small town with a very long nose. This nose causes unique, 
but amusing problems. Definitely a must-see. 
Starring: Steve Martin, Daryl Hannah 
Showtimes: 6,8,10,12
Sunday, March 13
The Enforcer
A step up from the muddled Magnum Force, this third entry in the popular series was a 
nice companion to Dirty Harry. Detective Harry Callahan grudgingly teams up with a 
female cop (Tyne Daly of Cagney and Lacey fame) in the pursuit of a band of terrorists. 
John Mitchum gives an outstanding performance as tough cop Frank DiGeorgio. Of course 
everybody will be looking for the infamous quote: Go ahead, make my day!
Director: James Fargo
Starring: Clint Eastwood, Tyne Daly, John Mitchum 
Showtimes: 6,8,10,12
Compiled by RON REDMOND
<J2fo* 1
Great Expectations  Where precision haircutting is a tradition, as well as an art. and at affordable prices
WTTH THIS COUPON  mm mm |save $2.ooPrecision Haircutcomplete with shampoo ft blow styleI
0CMIT^March 31J988^_____________CWCTT**SJ
SATlsF^TToNGUAfMNTE FEGreat Styles Start at... iSpCMMMU GftCIIT
ciifccmwns
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
687-3500
Matta-Clark show at CMU Gallery
By RON MOREAU
Special to The Tartan
Now appearing at the Carnegie Mellon Uni
versity Art Gallery are the works of conceptual 
artist Gordon Matta-Clark. The exhibition is 
on its ninth stop of fourteen cities, and displays 
the ten-year artistic career of Matta-Clark. The 
show will run until April 10. The exhibition is 
on loan from the Museum of Contemporary 
Art in Chicago and presents new artistic con
cepts that were developed during the late 
1960s and 70s.
Gordon Matta-Clark was the son of the surre
alist painter Matta. His life and career ended at 
the age of 35. Matta-Clark was at his best 
during a time when government funds were 
being invested in the art fields. This allowed 
artists to create different styles and expres
sions of art. They did not have to worry about 
selling their works to maintain their liveli
hood.
Matta-Clark, in some cases without permis
sion, cut through buildings to create sculptural 
works of art. This led to many warrants being 
issued for his arrest. Needless to say, this anti
object, anti-art creator opened the minds of 
many people during his time. Through photog
raphy and the use of actual parts of the cut
tings, the exhibition gradually reveals the tal
ents of Gordon Matta-Clark.
The works of Matta-Clark were profession
ally placed in the Carnegie Mellon Gallery by 
a preparator who travels with the art show.
Thanks to him, the public will experience a 
concise and informative perspective of each 
individual creation. Each work contains a 
plaque which informs the viewer of the subject 
matter and, in .some cases, the thoughts of 
Matta-Clark.
In addition to the professionally arranged
PittsburghTheological Seminary
Announces Exceptional Opportunities for Exceptional People
Joint Degree/Dual Competency Programs
Master of Divinity/Juris Doctor with 
Duquesne University
Master of Arts (Religious Education)/ 
Church Music with Duquesne University
Master of Divinity/Master of Health 
Administration with University of Pittsburgh
?
 Master of Divinity/Master of Business 
Administration with University of Pittsburgh
Master of Divinity/Master of Social Work 
with University of Pittsburgh
m
 Master of Divinity/Master of Library Science 
with University of Pittsburgh
Master of Divinity/Master of Science 
(Public Management and Policy) 
Camegie-Mellon University
For more information contact:
Office of Admissions Toll Free 1-800-451-4194 
Pittsburgh Theological Seminary
616 North Highland Avenue  Pittsburgh PA 15206  412-362-5610
ft
sisI
works, the aroma of the gallery captures the 
true essence of the exhibition. A musty attic 
scent draws attention to four comers of a house 
that were carefully removed from one of 
Matta-Clarks cuttings. These cuttings reveal, 
on the interior, the comers of an attic, and on 
the exterior, wood siding and tar shingles on 
the roof. The simplicity of the arrangement 
spurs the imagination and opens the mind to 
the observer. A new perspective is gained 
through this and all of the other works on 
display.
The public is invited to view this touring 
exhibition at the Carnegie Mellon University 
Art Gallery, 407 S. Craig Street The gallery is 
open from 10 am  5 pm TuesdayFriday, 
11 am  5 pm Saturday, and 1  4 pm 
Sunday. For more information call 268-3110 
or 268-2828.
Can Can falls 
shy of the mark
continued from page Dl
each number that their performance can get 
somewhat tiresome.
The actual execution of the steps by the 
Rockettes seemed to lack something as well. 
Although there were impressive moments in 
which all thirteen dancers performed high 
kicks, particularly in the final scene, the ma
jority of the dancers were not as precise as one 
would expect the Rockettes to be.
Overall, the play is successful in its purpose: 
to entertain the audience. Although nothing 
about Can Can really invokes feeling for the 
characters, the show manages to be successful 
because it doesnt attempt much more than 
superficial entertainment.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D4The TartanMarch 8,1988
0hvuco rpu: ,r euc,gpe ,c 2OW3Oco. sde...
Zappa not up to par in Mosque show last week
By BILL WRBICAN
Special to The Tartan
Outside of the Syria Mosque before the Frank 
Zappa show, I saw the police chase off some 
guys selling bootleg t-shirts. The shirts were 
$10 (expensive); inside they were $17 (ab
surd). What do they do with all the profits? I 
dont know, but I do know that I waited 20 
minutes to get my tickets at the window be
cause the promoters lost them or something. 
Amid the distant roar of the crowd, the open
ing muddled strains, and the smell of some 
drunk bikers, my friend and I arrived at our 
seats for a pleasant evening of music, politics, 
and uppity ushers.
Without trying to repeat what thousands al
ready have said, Frank Zappa is one of the 
most compelling musicians to be involved in 
rock. Hes recorded over 50 albums since 
1967. Hes directed some of the finest bands 
ever assembled. Zappas an excellent guitarist 
and a fine composer and arranger. Its too bad 
the acoustics of the Syria Mosque prevented 
many of these qualities from coming out You 
see, Zappa had an eleven piece band in a hall 
that would make polar water muddy. Despite 
the sound problems, there were moments 
when the band shined.
A five-piece horn section, with members of 
the Over-Nite Sensation Mothers, added a lot 
of oomph to the show and the arrangements 
were fantastic. Why Dont You Like Me, a 
new tune, featured an incredible brass blow
out, like Tower of Power. When the sound of 
the rest of the band was unclear, the horns gave 
the music an anchor and an engine as well. On 
their cover of Stairway to Heaven the guitar 
solo was played by the horn section. It was a lot 
more interesting than Led Zeppelin.
Ike Willis is with the band, too. Hes been 
with Frank for several years now, and has a 
great, booming voice full of power and emo
tion. A few times during the show he proved it. 
Most of the time, though, the lyrics were 
unintelligible. Ike is Zappas right-hand guy. 
When Frank sings, Ike plays guitar (very 
well), and vice versa. When Frank conducts 
the band, Ike sings and plays guitar. On top of 
that, Ike runs around, plays with stuffed ani
mals, and mugs it up with Frank. During 
Planet of the Baritone Women, Ike and 
Frank seemed to become actors in a Gilbert
were playing with an intensity that was lacking 
in the first set. Bamboozled by Love carried 
more weight than the version on Tinseltown 
Rebellion. The rhythm section was powerful, 
the horns were loud, and Ikes voice was great. 
They played two encores and the audience 
went nuts. Why did I leave the show unim
pressed with the mighty talent I had just wit
nessed, then? Bad sound, overextended jam
ming, and boring political satire.
I already talked about the bad sound, and that 
wasnt Franks fault. Throughout the show, 
though, were long improvisations. The sound
The rhythm section was powerful, the horns 
were loud... They played two encores and the 
audience went nuts. Why, then, did I leave the 
show unimpressed? Bad sound, overextended 
jamming, and boring political satire.
and Sullivan operetta. It was a fun tune, but Ill 
be damned if I know what its about.
At the end of the first set, Frank asked every
one to go out and register to vote. I heard that 
200 people did. I registered at the Giant Eagle 
a couple of weeks before so I didnt follow. 
Wild Man and Dude were discussing the 
show and the rest of the evenings plans in 
front of us. No big surprises came out of the 
conversation.
When the band came out for the second set, 
they played with more commitment than pre
viously. They opened with the moody Tor
ture Never Stops. The bassist, Scott Thunes, 
broke a string, which is a very good sign. They
may have had something to do with it, but there 
wasnt enough variety within them to sustain 
my interest. Zappa writes some of thetrickiest 
music in rock, but the subtleties are lost in 
place the size of the Mosque. What made it 
worse was the drum solo towards the end of the 
show. The solo was not too long, but I think the 
drum solo concept has overstayed its welcome 
by about 10-15 years. Even Ian Paice, who 
drummed for Deep Purple, cant stand them.
I was excited about the show before it hap
pened. I had great expectations for the talent 
presented. When I left the show I wasnt ex
cited. My mind wasnt flashing back to the 
performances. I wasnt humming any of the
tunes, even the ones I knew. What I do remem
ber is Zappas satires of politicians and evan
gelists.
He didnt say much outside of the songs but 
there were four (count em!) songs about TV 
evangelists, the ones that spend their 
weeknights on Nightline. One song wasn/ 
very funny, but the other three suffered from a 
dreary sameness. Why does Frank need to do 
this? Theyre easy targets and the audience 
agrees with him. Why preach to the con
verted? Which brings something else up: is it 
my imagination or is Frank acting like a priest, 
or Christ? Frank tells audience Pat Robertson 
is bad!  Oh Frank, we believe!  The Republicans are awful people! Oh Frank, we be- ' 
lieve!  THEY are out to get YOU! Oh 
Frank, we believe! Now go donate $40 to the 
Church of Zappantology and well give you a 
tie-dyed icon with my face on it.
Please dont get the idea that Im a right wing 
lunatic. I agree with his views on censorship, 
Republicans, and pop evangelicals, but fight
ing neuroses with neuroses is not the answer. 
Remember his speech on campus last year? J 
Remember his theory about AIDS? Substitute 
CIA for GOD and Falwell said the same 
thing, with a different point of view.
Frank used to take chances in his satire. He 
ridiculed the hippies as much as the middle 
class and the government. He performed 
Who Needs the Peace Corps? this night Its 
an example of the chances he used to take. By 
confronting his audience, Zappa challenged  
the ideas of the counter-culture, pointing out 
their own hypocrisy as well as that of the es
tablishment. The Mothers of Invention took 
chances with their status. Zappa of the 80s 
will not.
CSW  CSW  CSW  CSW  CSW* CSW  CSW CSW csw*
Computing Skills Workshop
is now recruiting for
Teaching Assistants
for the fall 1988 semester
If youre an undergraduate who enjoys working with people 
and has an interest in computers, we d like to talk with you!
*
Just stop by Baker Hall MOB between March 8 and March 18to pick up an application.
csw*csw*csw*csw*csw*csw*csw*csw*csw

---------------------------------------------------

March 8,1988The TartanPage D5
* Macbeth lacks professionalism
By JAVIER GRILLO-MARXUACHTartan Staffwriter
Legend has it that the play Macbeth is cursed. 
The Broadway bound production which made 
its Pittsburgh debut on Tuesday, February 23 
serves as ample proof of this.
^ Standing amidst this heap of theatrical rubble
* were Glenda Jackson and Christopher Plum
mer, who lent a much needed touch of professionality to the production. Plummer and 
Jackson simply outclassed every performer on 
stage. Plummer succeeded in grandly convey
ing the failed ambitions of the bloody mon
arch, while Jacksons Lady Macbeth exuded 
an understated evil which was frightening to 
behold. Their performances radiated a sense of 
^ power and confidence which overwhelmed 
the rest of the production.
The misguided supporting cast left a great 
deal to be desired. In his portrayal of Duncan, 
performer Jack Gwillim adopted a manner so 
affected that it was all but impossible to under
stand his delivery. Incomprehensibility, on the 
other hand, would have been an improvement 
in the case of Bruce Gooch, whose perform ance as MacDuff almost fell under the weight 
of his sword. During his final conflict with 
Plummers Macbeth, Goochs Macduff did 
not seem to present a threat but a frightened 
plea. This sorry state of affairs was capped off 
by trio of witches who, in spite of an impres
sive array of strobe lights, fog machines and 
stage effects, merely blended into the rocky 
background without making an impression.
 If any of the supporting players deserves to be 
commended it is Conan McCarty, who took on 
the role of Donalbain. Through the second act 
it was hard to believe that McCartys Donal
bain was bom of the feeble Duncan we saw in 
the first. The scenes featuring Donalbain
brought the only spark of life to this production 
apart from the lead performers.
The production also suffered from a less than 
impressive set, which was rebuilt halfway into 
the Pittsburgh run of the show. While the set, 
originally designed by Tony Walton, was 
unimpressive in places, it appeared unfinished 
and piecemeal in others. The stage, which 
consisted of a series of panels and flats remi
niscent of cave walls, which were raised and 
lowered to create doorways and such, would 
have provided a suitably dark and brooding, if 
somewhat uninnovative setting for the show, 
had it not been so ineptly executed.
For their part, the actors seemed to have 
extreme difficulty in negotiating the rocky 
terrain. While the staging was competent at 
best, it was marred by unconvincingly staged 
fight scenes. At its worst, the stage combat was 
innocuous. The climactic duel between 
Macduff and Macbeth seemed to fall by the 
wayside, as both performers struggled to 
maintain the appearance of conflict while 
avoiding the misguided blows of the other, a
more than unworthy climax to Plummers 
spellbinding delivery of Macbeths final so
liloquy.
Almost as upsetting as the shortcomings in 
the production was the behavior of the audi
ence. The first ten minutes of the show were 
all but incomprehensible due to the amount of 
movement going on about the theatre. At times 
the ceaseless coughing and talking made it 
impossible to understand the dialogue being 
spoken, a task which several members of the 
supporting cast had already done their best to 
complicate. Perhaps the show would have 
been more enjoyable had the gentleman sitting 
next to me had not vociferously expressed his 
dismay over the lack of leg room at the 
Benedum Center throughout the first act.
If this version of Macbeth is to succeed on 
Broadway it will require extensive recasting 
and rethinking. The combined talents of Chris
topher Plummer and Glenda Jackson, not to 
mention William Shakespeare, deserve a bet
ter showcase than this less than impressive 
production.
Laugh With Pittsburgh's Best!
Come see eight local comedians perform 
at Morewood Gardens Rec Room 
on Friday, March 11 at 9 pm.It's not over until everybody 
laughs!
Donations will be collected for 
Students Against Multiple Sclerosis.
Rockin blues 
at the Decade
By RONALD G. REDMOND
Tartan Staffwriter
The Louisiana-born, Chicago-bred, * 
house-rockin guitarist Lonnie Brooks 
will bring his special brand of blues with 
a rock n roll chaser to Pittsburgh for one 
live performance on Sunday, March 20th, 
at The Decade, 223 Atwood. Showtime 
will be at 10 pm.
Brooks and his band are touring in sup
port of their new live LP, Live From 
Chicago - Bayou Lightning Strikes, re
leased in February. This album exhibits 
Brooks and his bands ability to mix rock 
and blues in a way youve never heard 
before, complete with howling guitars, 
throbbing soulful bass, and wrenching 
blues vocals that tear at your heartstrings. 
This Louisiana swamp-rock moves. The 
band is tight and the solos are incredible. 
The quality of this live album shows how 
truly amazing this band really is. Songs 
such as Two Headed Man, Born with the 
Blues, and Eyeballin will give just an 
inkling of how well this band will per
form live on March 20th.
This album, released on Alligator Rec
ords, is a n ice follow-up to Brooks  album 
Wound Up Tight. Brooks now has eight 
albums released through Alligator.
The album and the concert capture an artist 
whose career spans 30 years. His talent 
and experience shine clearly through. I 
recommend you check out both the album. 
Live From Chicago -Bayou Lightning 
Strikes, and the concert on Sunday, March 
20th, at The Decade, 223 Atwood. 
Showtime will be 10 pm. Dont miss it!
CMU 
Computer Store
CMU Computer Store: UCC - A level
Phone: x2636 MS: PS00@TE ps00@andrew 
For a current price list: Type HELP COMPUTER-STORE-PRICES on any TOPS 
System.
The CMU Computer Store and 
PC Repair now have evening 
hours: 
Mon. & Thurs. 10:00 a.m. - 
7:00 p.m. 
Tuesday, Wed., & Friday 
10:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.
(These hours will remain in effect until further notice)
SERVICE DESK
&
RECROOM 
ATTENDANTS
* Applications now being accepted for 
1988 SUMMER and FALL semesters
* Must be work-study eligible
* Applications due Friday March 18th
* For an application or further 
information, please stop by or 
contact the Housing Office at x2139

---------------------------------------------------

will be pre-sold during the period from
Wednesday, March 9 through Friday, March 11
11:00am through 7:00pm
In the Skibo Grey Matter
Buy your yearbook now! Last year we sold out 
and many people who put off buying their yearbooks 
until the end of the year couldnt get one.
Funded by Student Activities Fee
You dont want to miss out on this years book! 
With 320 pages; 70 of which are in full color, 
our new Art Gallery, and of course, 
pictures of all your friends!
If you ordered a book last year and 
never picked it up, come to the sale 
and you can get it.
U

---------------------------------------------------

BLOOM COUNTYBy Berke Breathed
THeHtoMy HIMMISTIC, RATIONALISTIC A-maST/c xie/msrPREPARei TD Me MMSeif OVCR TO AN ANNUALCbugSg mtmNT orWtLP ABANDON..
me Mvefie is fiUrruTootmeo
MYHMVTHfeeuJNCOMftynABiY CANPRY \OUowme1\
fAiw lSMgf m&je is ktybiSTKKYFeUN6 YVCKY SORTA STARCHY YAKNOVNOMY TONOUe DON'TH STARCHY CALL ACMN ', urs webA\ wvenAiuyAb 4 tffSOH 'a/ct't
me nACCepc seino. i suppose, yeMMe bMin / ha^% peu HAVfNo liMTw iy dybAuutbABANANA
Funded by
Student Dormitory Council
THERE'S A F65-P0UNPmm iTueCC MwA srpeerPRUNIN6 HER AZALEAS WEARING A PAIR Of FeA-sovp mTHHe mrr'smr/ms" MwAl BKK6&,KM
PeMA60CrUeRY/ ZEALOTS' ftiLSe PR0PHBT5 ' Reums CHAUVINISM' wmvToBewvepmums memn*.
THEN CALL oa9/ HESSTVMPINO FOR PAT IN ALBUQUERQUE
Ll
---------*VOUR WORST \ WHOS ANXIETY -Mtf ? BUPPY BOY /PRObKesSNB MMN.'
\ <1
toMHe tyou oAHe BNNDO FOR you' MTHOU CHOOSe THif WINE AT PINNER ' HVMEN WHO U TAKE YOUR NANP ANP LEAPyou 7 wnm
wmo am 6>m>y
iUPf. 60 NCST biCM -me FURNACE..TVRN RI6HT VN A LEFT. ANOTHER lfT biCM weSNORKUWACXER. MM RIGHT TO CAST bOTtMr/
V*------------- BOY. PON T 6ALSme me 1euCM me wrm btuATMMeyC r
.SOL
3ACKH0&A 6Ml6+\
sieve's
dA68&, J//U0NS!
s9% i,
4*0OOP6P SMdTmJH/SofAueHP&mf
iv tr*MsA HOKKieceH
WEME60T W NOTIFYveAumxmes' orvs isPOINT? THAT RI6HT Hcm*
YesTiRMY srevePAUAs WAS VIOLENTLY ABOUCTEP BY A PASSINO AiXN SPACESHIP
Thank you for the overwhelming response to the upcoming 
Full Color Movie Parody comics section!
Get your popcorn ready because the premiere is going to be in 
the March 22nd issue of The Tartan!

---------------------------------------------------

^urrt, V bte AoW'fo wiech Panie, 
Md u---------------------------
iS
J^'5e*reS
By Eva Sandor
Dio Vou pfctoVE* A MH OVB foiM M Ywe tMit? 1WAS Suftft&EP IO 66f oME MVSELF THANKS, Togi 3 TbWk'i Alfe? CATH'i SM*A- 5 UMRARpY N - AfT- 307- ATUAfrA, 4A, 3030*|  TEIL HER TbTKAHSFEK 
ATFUAR Mr. @<)i^v c
Hf 
IN
m
Inkspots
\ rBy Kurt Shaw
imk
"NN
V
r
wditST OMQ
l.oo< , 've 
HeARp of A NXMtT 
onJ vo Ca)Ho MAV 0eA6>Le l Re5To0B 
H6R HIMP
We interrupt this strip for a few words from 
our sponsor...
sienna"
"93 m Maw
^Vb.HQH'7
And now, back to 
our story...
____ seveRAu
uSks Wfiere^ th ftJATeii- Met-osi is LOeu- ONi itsUiAy TO Vo. UOCC IS Mo(MG> Thear TtTnco
Snooger's quest has taken him to some sunny bea 
so he'll be busy until next issue! As for Freddy Flasl 
just say they'll be back on their feet

---------------------------------------------------

iNVINCIBLE aGNESBY nNOSE sLAVERY
You see, we have found that the most boring thing...oo clear i bi ' X ctid The -far and- bbod Col I 
Way
...that I must be locked in this big steel BARREL to be interviewed!
By combining an old btofeedback penmanship trainer, and a used psychiatric compulsion $chair...
That's not merely a barrel, you babblingidiot... y
So, as of now I have been pulled one entire mile off the surface of Incarnadine... so that these two mutated English majors can interview me for my biography. So, of course, it only follows...
Allow me to explain.
...I developed a machine to force the subjects to interview themselves!
about biography is interviewing thesubject! So...
Hm .now, instead of yelling obscenities, he seems to he chanting some- thing...
But a week of solid writing..The fiendish torture of nonstop creative writing proves too much for Captain S., a middle school dropout and practiced imitator of dyslexies.
My machine will compel you to write out your entire life story, all of it, in embarrassing detail, during a full 84-hour week! So Mel and 1, the creative people, an pick out the good parts to write about!
..would reduce your hand to hamburger? j
My God: 80 hours to go,
V.yel">
Dont worry! Your share of the royalties should just cover the cost of a new aim!
IbBKf 5 MAIL ROLL 60GS 
EXTREMISTS 5H0t,FF BE <H0T .<! *
wrong-eep.(fe and Iv<fc/ can already jqY feel my finger-/ nails turning/ hlark" There's' only one thing to do, and that's a kamikaze prayer to PUTZMANIA...
P* ARRGH ? I SAID ? NEVER, SAY/ THAT7 INEVERBui don't die on us, like the last guy!
Since when did a faster than <light starship have anything to 'do with logical stuff? This ship 1is susceptible to all sorts of hexes, >curses, contractual obligations, & .the like! Though I thought my isacrifices to the word processor would cover something like this.
, Arrgh! That cretinous pirate f has blown out all the systems ft.with his prayer to PUTZMANIA!I Were just sitting in free fall! %
Hfre is the CORRECT order of 
iNVINCIBLE aGNES...sorry for 
any inconvenience, 
frustration and subsequent 
physical discomfort.
- Editor
i'
y But so what? >r~v y It was just a prayer- a prayer to the God of / FflBups, but nothing y more than a prayer? How f is a prayer supposed to knock out a dreadnought like ours, hm?
/ BUT THAT< WONT HELP YOU NOW...whoops, this door is already open, I can't kick it!
What do you think you're trying to do, bursting in on us, and in such a fatuous manner?
...Don't even try N, the look out for the Big Pirate Ship that's about to scrag us gambit on me!
Ohpfft! This ship isn't going anywhere, now that you ruptured our ship with your prayer! It needs repair,...
God-Captain to Induction Control, turn on the tractors I and reel in those I dumb suckers!
Don't be ridiculous, cretin!
Don't even get close to those controls, you bizarre coelenterate, and that goes for the dead guy too! Im not taking guff from anyone..
Its not his fault, > dear, he's just read too much Perry Rhodan sci-fi. i
W'Uho see-M AuiFotuy 7>otoN. \ log'l IL JOST C.A*HTVbR (SCeATeST S.Pag
yy------1   -r MOMTV ruec ye A h. ue-LL-, y _  --------------.> e>Aife of mv ccose *F*I eues is
SOchAM AlKHOAb/ J I
v that sh6 Kleeps/ 1 M- To Be KeP-r /
; oJWann uary k ^
, poesMT k^^msmiKyM
MY PAY!y / ^ ^ ^
Now get away from those controls, I'm flying this ^ ship!!
Don't talk down^"^s to me! ! read Dhalgre.n only a week ago, and understood most of it!!
I've just begun rccicving the 
vibrations of some incredibly 
powerful force probing the ship! 
Were in deep trouble... __L_
All right, get away from th( controls!
What, is someone \ 
going to teleport us 
out of the ship, 
bonehead0 )
EEYY-AAGH!Right now, we're being tcleponed! Ugly process, eh'?But my guns are gone! Where .are my guns? >
The teleport machine must 
have been ronning a disarming 
program, and, hm, it dissolved 
them! I'd say it's umc for 
some delicious revenge, y like spleen cancer... eh?
YOU ARE PRISONERS OF THI 
OF THE VICIOUS SPACE PlRA
iud pig6s:ut OfeAmg ,sD
WILL RESULT IN DEATH, BUT I
vegp fidl Ase eFR:eCOfl
ho monster
The people on this ship must be cheap, they don't have the optional light show to mask the forming organs and bones.. How gauche. j
beach along the Pacific coast 
lashback and Max...well, let's 
feet soon also!
*p inn arm*, dita m me AnRIPUPZ

---------------------------------------------------

By BobJenkins collegiate crossword

---------------------------------------------------

March 8,1988The TartanPage Dll
t
t
*
m
#


U
Romanticism 
this week at 
Forbes
By EDIE LOCKE
Special to The Tartan
Tonight at the Forbes Gallery, seniors 
John Lechner and Sean Jackson will be 
opening their show. They will be exhib
iting paintings, drawings and prints.
Subtlety Within Romanticism
John Lechner is concerned with con
veying a mood and atmosphere in his 
drawings through compositions in a 
space. Using the figure, Lechner posi
tions it in an environment to create a 
dramatic mood, reminiscent of the 
Romantic painters. Im interested in the 
mystery of a portrait and the hidden, less 
obvious thoughts that can be found 
there.
In a series of two drawings, Lechner 
depicts a nineteenth century violinist he 
read about; as an adult, playing the violin 
and then as a young boy. Lechner ex
plains it as a romantic, idealist look at a 
larger-than-life character from that 
period in history. I wanted to depict a 
character in different situations. I use 
this character as a self-portrait of inter
ests, ideas and states-of-mind. The 
violinist is a vehicle for creating a psy
chological attitude in subtle ways. I 
want my portraits to be quiet in the style 
of Whistler, rather than Van Gogh or 
Edvard Munch.
Lechner will also be including watercolor landscapes, also done in a realistic, 
romantic style with intentionally heavy 
clouds and dramatic sunlight.
For the future, Lechner plans to work 
on getting still a stronger sense of mood 
and atmosphere. Right now, Im taking 
a general look at human nature and the 
environment, he states, Im searching 
for a dramatic narrative yet also a roman
tic portrait in space.
Compositions of Figure and Color
Sean Jackson, who also works figura
tively, will be showing paintings, draw
ings, and prints. While Jacksons work 
also presents figures in space, he usually 
depicts groups of people, exploring the 
relationships between them both for
mally and conceptually. Right now Im 
more concerned with formal aspects and 
learning how to handle the paint, 
Jackson remarks, Im interested in the 
space, shapes, colors, and gestures I can 
create and working figuratively is easi
est for me. However, figures also relate 
to his ideas that people often share a 
space and are familiar with each other, 
yet really know nothing about the other 
person at all.
Recently, Jackson has started using 
color in his drawings, which often take 
the form of portraiture. He cites artists 
Elizabeth Murray and Susan 
Rothenburg as major influences in his 
employment of color, as well as the re
cent work in his paintings. Strongly in
fluenced by Richard Diebenkom and 
other Bay Area painters, as well as 
Edward Hopper, Eric Fischl, Jackson 
has recently made a few mini-paint
ings which pay homage to Jim Dine. 
Im interested in found objects and the 
fact that one can collect so many objects 
which really mean nothing at all. I also 
enjoy the patterns that are set up by 
seemingly identical objects which are 
actually very individual.
While satisfied with the direction of his 
work right now, Jackson plans to pursue 
the idea of three-dimensional painting, 
pattern and found objects.
Dance Theatre of Harlem at the Benedum
By ERIKA L. PETERSON
Tartan Managing Editor 
Combining the arts with community service, 
Arthur Mitchells widely acclaimed Dance 
Theatre of Harlem will make their Pittsburgh 
debut on Friday, March 11, and Saturday, 
March 12, at the Benedum Center.
The company will perform Stravinskys 
Firebird choreographed by John Taras, Con
certo in F choreographed especially for the 
troupe by CMU faculty member Billy Wilson 
and set to the music of George Gershwin, and 
Voluntaries, with music by Francis Poulec and 
choreography by Glen Tetley. The show is 
sponsored by funds provided by the Howard 
Heinz Endowment, the National Endowment 
for the Arts, the Pennsylvania Council on the 
Arts, and the Mid-Atlantic Arts Foundation. 
The Dance Theatre of Harlem school was 
founded by Mitchell and the late Karen Shook 
in 1969 shortly after the assassination of Dr. 
Martin Luther King, Jr. in an effort to open up 
artistic and professional opportunities to 
young blacks in Harlem. Over the course of its 
19 years, the school has provided opportuni
ties for approximately 1000 youngsters each 
year to learn about the performing arts. These 
youngsters come not only from Harlem, but 
around the world to join the ranks of perform
ers such as entertainer Ben Vereen and musi
cian Angela Bofill, who are both alumni of the 
school.
The company performs works throughout the 
range of dance, including classical, neo-classical, modem, and ethnic. They are most well 
known for their Lawrence Olivier Outstand
ing New Dance Production Award-winning 
performance of the Creole-influenced Giselle.
The 60 member company, which tours exten
sively, is planning a tour of the Soviet Union 
for May of this year.
Tickets for the show, which runs Friday, 
March 11, and Saturday, March 12 at 8 pm at 
the Benedum Center, are available through the 
Benedum Center Box Office, located on 7th 
between Penn and Liberty in downtown Pitts
burgh, or by tele-charge at 456-6666. Further 
information is available through the Pitts
burgh Dance Council Office at 355-0330.
The Mannes College of Music
150 West 85th Street, New York, N Y. 10024  212-580-0210
Audition Dates: Scholarships are available. Dormitory
March 2 ' 3 -TT1988 Master of Music, Post-Graduate Diploma, Rooms
May 25, 26, 27.1988 Bachelor of Music, Bachelor of Science, Available
August/September Diploma, Professional Studies Certificate.to he announced
MLtyOl* FlddS of Study This is a complete listing of the faculty.
KcrhRs3hr ,c 6hr,ohcvhThe Galimir String Quartet The Mannes Trio The Newman-Oltman Guitar Duo
D.n2 
Edward Aldwell Arkady Aronov David Bar-lllan Claude Frank Richard Goode Jeannette Haien Eugenia Hyman Grant Johannesen Lilian Kallir Leon Pommers Marie Powers Josef Raieff Peter Serkin Nina Svetlanova Diane Walsh
26n Oco 
APV6AP BV0.A Ford Lallerstedt McNeil Robinson William Whitehead
046.KL 
.046VBK40 Nina Beilina, Violin Raphael Bronstein.Violin and Viola Isidore Cohen. Violin Felix Galimir. Violin Shirley Givens, Violin Lewis Kaplan, Violin Ani Kavafian. Violin David Nadien, Violin Aaron Rosand. Violin Dora Schwartzberg. Violin Sally Thomas, Violin Hiroko Yajima. Violin Paul Doktor, Viola and Violin John Graham, Viola Sol Greitzer, Viola Karen Ritscher. Viola Timothy Eddy, Violoncello Gary Hoffman. Violoncello Melissa Meell. Violoncello Paul Tobias, Violoncello Julius Levine, Double Bass Homer Mensch, Double Bass
HAKEGloria Agostini Lucile Lawrence
nMTANlm*nacvsuwNorman Grossman Howard Van Hyning Chris LambKorntergtf
C22LC.L Oco 
?6n00Andrew Lolya, Flute Thomas Nyfenger, Flute Elaine Douvas, Oboe John Ferrillo, Oboe Albert Goltzer, Oboe Mark Hill, Oboe Ronald Roseman, Oboe Gervase de Peyer, Clarinet Peter Simenauer, Clarinet Burt Bial. Bassoon and Con trabassoon Harold Goltzer, Bassoon Judith LeClair, Bassoon Allen Won, Saxophone Myron Bloom. French Horn Ranier Delntinis, French Horn Antonio lervolino, French Horn David Jolley, French Horn Philip Myers, French Horn Mel Broiles, Trumpet Vincent Penzerella, Trumpet James Smith, Trumpet Joe Alessi. Trombone Per Brevig, Trombime Donald Harwood.Bass Trombone Stephen Johns, Tuba
ATn00.AnT V.4n6Eliot Fisk Frederic Hand Sharon Isbin Herbert Levine Michael Newman
26APK046n Oco
26APK046nT
A2LVA4.
Yakov Kreizberg, Music Director
AP26V0 Oco 
AP26nT A2LVA4. Amy Kaiser. Music Director
Y2K Richard Barrett Charles Bressler Thomas Cult ice Peter Elkus Antonia Lavanne Dan Marek Marian Thompson Theodor I ppman
L.A4.2NkoC.xstel. French.German. and Italian Dorothy I Iris, English
VOCAL
APnB?K6 BV0.AFredric Popper
nA4. Oco 
04nKA6nQ4 Wesley Balk Janet Bookspan Nina David Louis Peterson
2DK6n A2nAP. Marshall Williamson Alexander Ryvkin
02
.4K6D6K4n4.2Antonia Lavanne
P.0426.AnT
DK6Q26BnAKValerie Horst.Program Coordinator Juliannc Baird. Voice Charles Bressler, Voice Marcy Lindheimer. Voice Kenneth Cooper, Harpsichord Lionel Party, Harpsichord Patrick OBrien. Lute Nancy Wilson, Baroque Violin; Director. Baroque Chamber Ensemble Myron Lutzke. Baroque Cello Michael Willens. Violone Richard Taruskin,Viola da Gamba Dennis Godbum. Recorder, Baroque Bassoon. Dulcian Stephen Hammer. Recorder.Baroque Oboe Philip Levin, Recorder,Baroque Bassoon Sandra Miller. Baroque Flute Steven Silverstein, Cometto Benjamin Peck, Sackbut; Director, Mannes Renaissance Band Beniamin Harms. Percussion Paul C. Echols, Director, Mannes Camerata
APnB?K6 BV0.A 
Oco K0KB?TKPer Brevig Terry Champlin Paul Doktor Timothy Eddy Felix Galimir John Graham Howard Van Hyning Julius Levine Marie Powers Peter Simenauer Diane Walsh Hiroko Yaiima
A24KBD26n6Y 
K0KB?TK Madeline Shapiro.Director
0KA2Dn6 Y D.n2 Emilie Harris Miriam Kartch
A2BD20.4.2Charles Jones David Loeb Peter Pindar Stearns David Tcimpidis Frederick Werle
4KAP./VK0 
2Q BV0.A Elizabeth Aaron Edward Aldwell Poundie Burstein Terry Champlin Robert Cuckson Douglas Diamond Leo Edwards Charles Jones Ford Lallerstedt Larrv Laskowski David Loeb Mei-Mei Meng William Needelman Frank Nemhauser Marie Powers Carl Schachter David Stern Eric Wen Frederick Werle
DKLn2YEmilie Harris Marie Powers Carl Schachter
P.0426Y Oco 
V4K6n4V6K 2Q BV0.A Jane Gottlieb. M S.L.S.. Graduate Studies, Literature of Music Andrew E Green, MM, History of MusicL Michael Griffel. Ph D . Graduate Studies. Literature of Music Charles Kaufman. Ph.D., History of MusicKenneth Stern. Ph D . Studies in Opera History Frederick Werl/. M M ,Music Literature
nAnLKB.A 04VL.K0Gale Justin. M A Western Civilization Suzanne Osborne. B A . German Elinor Richter. Ph D , Art History Martin Smith. M A.. English (/imposition Literature Carol Rosen Xing, M A . English for Foreign Students
For additional information:Wftoc or caU Mr Marilyn Groves. Director of AdmissionsThe e113T CoHcye of  150 West 89th Street. New Ybrk, N.Y. 10024  212-580-0210

---------------------------------------------------

jaSn
s
s
Lm
\pm
m
sI
.r O ch: vuRwdeha ,c iuda oahORr 
sde cue ,c iuda sdoghex
Now * you can bring your old Macintosh to the 
CMU Computer Store and we'll let you trade it in 
toward the purchase of a new system unit.
Well also be selling the Macintosh systems that we take in 
trade. If you've always wanted to own one and thought you just 
couldn't afford it, come in and let us prove you can.
All used equipment will be checked by our service department, and 
will carry a full thirty dav warranty from the date of purchase.
Hours:
Monday & Thursday 
10:00-7:00 
Tuesday, Wedness day 
and Friday 
10:00-4:30
This program is I 
in effect on a 
trial basis
I*
&
IB
Contact the store at X2636 
or stop in for 
details.
nf
&
m
sJ
(m K AMt 
U IT, T / M*T\ a
 Dyy<X\ Zig&tj: 
h LTl'i
t0
U ? JU h 3lt<7)% fix 
p < e' FOc tr ,e & 
rmo
Mi#>
Tl'Jto
RECRUIT CO., LTD. has 
been instrumental in the 
development of Japans 
information service industry.
In RECRUITS Tokyo, Los 
Angeles and New York offices, 
challenging work in such 
fields as telecommunications, 
super-computing and 
publishing awaits you.
FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL OUR TOLL-FREE NUMBERS OR WRITE TO:
*
6KA6V.4 Vf0fnfl .Af
65 E. 55th St. 34th Floor New York, NY 10022 
(212) 750-6100 (N.Y.)
(800) 782-7856 (Other States)
Both Attention to TWR-TG COORDINATOR
725 S. Figueroa St., 31st Floor 
Los Angeles, CA 90017 
(800) 325-9759
April 30 
9:00 AM
Open to the entire 
CMU Community
CMU 1988 
TRIATHLON
1/4 mile swim (400 yds) 
10 mile bike (Helmets required) 
5K run (3.1 mile)
First, Second, Third Place Awards to: 
Solo Male 
Solo Female 
Best Male Team 
Best Female Team 
Best Co-ed Team 
Best Masters - 50+
Fiick op your information and sign up sheet
at the Ski bo information desk or the IM offices
Sponsored by: Student Senate, Student Affairs, In Iran ur alt Dept.Entries Due April 20
Entry Fee: $5.00 for individual 
$15.00 for teams 
Checks payable to CMU

---------------------------------------------------

March 8,1988The TartanPage D13
Mystery of Irma Vep
PITTSBURGH - Pittsburgh Public Thea
ter presents Charles Ludlams madcap 
melodrama The Mystery of Irma Vep, a 
Penny Dreadful, as the fourth production of 
the 1987-88 season.
The Mystery of Irma Vep is a bizarre tale of 
murder, myth, and mirth set at Mandacrest, 
a seemingly haunted Gothic mansion lo
cated on the misty moors. In this suspenseful 
spoof of the penny dreadful genre, two ac
tors play eight roles in a series of lightningfast changes. When Lord Edgar Hillcrest, 
Master of Mandacrest, brings home his new 
bride, Lady Enid, he sets off a chain of events 
chilling and hilarious, that keeps the audi
ence guessing until the very end.
The penny dreadfuls, a popular form of 
fiction in England in mid-nineteenth cen
tury, were written in serial form and told 
tales of vampires, highwaymen, and mur
derers, both fictional and real. The most 
famous of these characters are Sweeney 
Todd, the Demon Barber of Fleet Street, and 
Dick Turpin, a raffish highwayman.
The Mystery of Irma Vep is the most suc
cessful play written by Charles Ludlam, who 
was a founding member of New Yorks
Ridiculous Theatrical Company established 
in 1967 and its Artistic Director until his 
death in 1987. A theatrical jack-of-alltrades, Mr. Ludlam worked alternately and 
often simultaneously as a playwright, direc
tor, actor, designer, puppeteer, and teacher. 
A ground-breaking artist, he created his 
own style of theater that he described as a 
synthesis of ...wit, parody, vaudeville 
farce, melodrama, and satire. During the 
course of his career, he and his company re
ceived numerous awards including a Drama 
Desk Award and two Obies for Irma Vep. 
Pittsburgh audiences may remember Mr. 
Ludlam from one of his six appearances 
here. In 1980 he appeared with The Floating 
Theater in the title role of Camille. That 
same year he directed William Wycherlys 
The Country Wife for Carnegie Mellon 
University. Mr. Ludlam last appeared in 
Pittsburgh at the American Ibsen Theater 
where he starred in Hedda Gabier, directed 
by Mel Shapiro, CMU Drama Professor.
The Mystery of Irma Vep opened on March 
2, and will run through March 27. For ticket 
information, contact the Public Theater Box 
Office at (412) 321-9800.
n ch: F,3R FauR 0w,Wh Thh...
School Daze is confused
^IXIIIIIIXIXIIIIIXIXKXIKKKIIIIIIXXXXKIIIIXIK]
The Next Thearthnct Staff Meeting
S WILL BE AT 8 PM ON
S Tuesday, March 8,
y :u rsm rig,iu evv:6mo
S All BS/MPMh/MD CPB/MPhNa nPM MSditPneMD /i n//MSDs -NUUUtUUTUUTUiUUUUoUTUUUTTTtUUTUnUTUUToUUTUUN
By LORI MAURER
Tartan Staffwriter
School Daze, a film directed by Spike Lee of 
Shes Gotta Have It fame, is a musical comedy 
which depicts Homecoming weekend in Mis
sion College, a black university in the South. 
Lee describes the film as a microcosm of 
black life in its treatment of discrimination 
between light-skinned and dark-skinned 
blacks.
The plot of the film involves the conflict 
between four groups: the Gamma Phi Gamma 
fraternity and its female counterparts, the 
light-skinned, blue-contact-lens wearing 
Gamma Rays vs. the socially conscious Da 
Fellas and the dark-skinned Jigaboos, their 
female counterparts.
In the flurry and excitement of a colleges 
homecoming weekend, Lee throws in the issue 
of apartheid. The leader of Da Fellas, Dap 
Dunlap, played by Larry Fishbume, stages 
anti-apartheid activities which are disrupted 
by Julian Big Brother Almighty Eaves,
tered by its exceptionally strong cast. Al
though half of the actors had never appeared in 
a film before, Lee brought out exceptional 
performances in every one of them, especially 
in the main characters - all talented, young 
black actors with impressive backgrounds.
Giancarlo Esposito brought the most memo
rable performance to the film in his portrayal 
of Julian Big Brother Almighty Eaves of 
Gamma Phi Gamma. Esposito is a veteran of 
many films including Taps, Maximum 
Overdrive, and The Cotton Club. Other note
worthy performances were given by Tisha 
Campbell, formerly a do-wop girl in Little 
Shop of Horrors and the orphaned Marva on 
the TV show Rags to Riches, as Eaves 
wannabee white girlfriend, Jane Toussaint, 
and Larry Fishbume as Dap Dunlap who has 
also appeared in Apocalypse Now and The 
Color Purple.
School Daze can best be described as Lees 
poorly executed attempt to bring landmark 
subject matter to the attention of American
Branford Marsalis, Larry Fishburne, and Bill Nunn in School Daze.
played by Giancarlo Esposito, and the brothers 
and pledges of Gamma Phi Gamma. Through
out the film, the fraternity is portrayed as 
immersed in silly rituals and hazing activities. 
They are contrasted with Da Fellas and their 
attempts to promote increased awareness and 
campus activity in the anti-apartheid move
ment.
The issue of skin color is centered around the 
female groups, the Gamma Rays and the Jiga
boos. The Gamma Rays are light-skinned 
blacks who wear blue contact lenses and who 
disdain the kinked hair and dark skin of the 
Jigaboos, who are more in touch with their 
African heritage. The climax of the conflict 
between the two groups occurs in a musical 
number, Straight and Nappy, at Madam ReRes Beauty Salon.
Straight and Nappy, like the other musical 
numbers in the film, seemed like an intrusion 
to the plot and an attempt to make up for sloppy 
transitions between scenes in the film. Appar
ently, the filmmakers also attempted to rem
edy the problem of transition in the editing 
room, but this was to no avail  the film lacked 
continuity and its rough edges were still obvi
ous.
The sloppiness of School Daze was coun
movie-goers. Although Lees film is innova
tive and important, it seems like he has ne
glected details in his pretentious manner of 
making a statement.
Not surprisingly, School Daze has stirred a 
great deal of controversy within the black 
community. Some blacks praise Lee for his 
innovative film while others feel that he is 
exploiting less desirable aspects of the black 
race for cinematic self-importance and box 
office returns. Four black colleges in Atlanta 
boycotted the production of Lees film on their 
campuses and the United Negro College Fund 
cancelled negotiations for a premiere benefit. 
However, in place of the benefit, Lee and 
Columbia Pictures are both donating $25,000 
to the fund.
School Daze is an important film for its subject 
matter if not for its artistic merit. Lee seems to 
think that its cultural significance makes up for 
some of the loose ends in the script and some 
of the sloppiness in its presentation and to a 
certain extent, hes right. He states the impor
tance of School Daze in his assertion, Any
body who comes to see the film cant help but 
leave the theatre thinking. Any time a film gets 
people talking, thats a step in the right direc
tion.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D14The TartanMarch 8,1988
Announcements
Richard M. Cyert will have open office hours 
for students between 2 pm and 5 pm, in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Monday, March 
21,1988. Students who wish to meet with the 
president should telephone his secretary on 
x2200 to set up an appointment.
Student Ombudsman will have open office 
hours for students to discuss concerns, register 
complaints and help resolve problems. Days 
and times available for appointments are at the 
Skibo Information desk @x2107. Phone 
messages @x5764 (24 hrs a day).
Carnegie Mellon Drama presents a musical 
to be staged by Billy Wilson. Kresge Theatre.
Previews March 9 and 10 at 8 pm. March 11,
12, 15-19, at 8 pm. March 12, 19 at 2 pm. 
Help Begin A Great Work Of Art. Work 
donated by present and past Board Members 
of The Associated Artists of Pittsburgh for the 
upcoming Benefit Auction. The Auction is 
being held to raise money for the purchase of 
937 Liberty Avenue building in the emerging 
Cultural District in Downtown Pittsburgh. 
This exhibit runs through March 27. Silent 
bidding may be exercised. The Auction takes 
place at the PPG Wintergarden on April 23. 
Vista Orchard Cafe Celebrates Royal Visit 
With British Food Fair, through March 13. For 
more information call the Orchard at (412) 
281-8162.
An exhibition of photographs by Anne 
Fishbein focusing on an American way of life. 
Many of the images were taken on U.S. Route 
66. Hewlett Gallery, CFA 1st floor, through 
March 22.
Gordon Matta Clark. A retrospective exhi
bition of this conceptual artist, organized by 
the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago. 
Carnegie Mellon University Art Gallery, 407
S. Craig St. Through April 10. Gallery Hours 
are 10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday through Friday; 11 
am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm - 4 pm, Sunday. 
Three Rooms with a View. Three guest 
curators, David Lewis, Louis Mueller and Ann 
Nathan, were invited to each create a room of 
a house. Their only mandate was to utilize 
works made in a craft medium within the 
context of the space. Through April 3. The 
Society For Art in Crafts, 21st and Smallman 
Streets, The Strip District. Gallery Hours are
10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday through Saturday; 1 pm
- 4 pm, Sunday.
Roman Catholic Oratory. Celebrate mass 
on campus at 7 pm, Saturday night and 10:30 
am, Sunday morning, in the GSIA Audito
rium. Daily Mass is celebrated at 12:30 pm, 
Monday through Friday, in CMs Chapel 
(Skibo Rm. 39). For more information call
681-3181.
Is There Anyone Else Like Me On Campus?
If you are experiencing attractions toward 
members of the same sex, the answer is yes. 
Join sympathetic peers for informal discus
sions of issues that are important to you. For 
details, contact the CMU Gay and Lesbian 
Alliance via campus mail c/o Skibo Informa
tion Desk or via computer mail to ga0y@tb. 
All responses are confidential.
Buhl Science Center:
Laserium. 8 pm and 9:15 pm, Thursday 
through Sunday; and 3 pm, Saturday. For
current concerts call 321-5554.
Legends in the Sky. Through March 22. 2 * 
pm, Monday through Wednesday; 2 pm, 5 pm,
7 pm, Thursday and Friday; 11 am, 2 pm, 3 pm,
4 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Saturday; and 1:15 pm, 2 
pm, 4 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Sunday.
Sounds Sensational. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday. -
The Right Moves. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Batter Up. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 pm, 
Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Bio Corner. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 v 
pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 pm, 
Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Image Imagination. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Foucault Pendulum. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm <
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Observatory. Friday evenings, weather 
permitting.
The Brave Little Tailor. Can a little tailor 
defeat two giants? It seems dangerous. It 
seems impossible. But this little tailor has wits 
as sharp as his scissors and a bag full of tricks. 
Aurand Harris comic adaptation of the popu
lar fairy tale is sure to delight the whole family.
11 am and 2:30 pm, Saturdays; 2:30 pm, 
Sundays; through March 20.
( WE NEED YOUR HELPj~~)
The Committee on Drug and Alcohol 
Education is establishing a program and 
referral network to help students with 
substance abuse problems. If you are a 
recovering alcoholic or drug dependent 
student, we need your expert advice.
If you can help, call Chrissy,621 2694
Carnival '88
Spring Carnival '88 is offering you a job! We need students to help 
make it through Carnival. Positions are available for Security 
Monitors and Ticket Sellers. Security Monitors assist Campus 
Police during Carnival weekend and Ticket Sellers... well, they 
sell tickets. Applying is easy Just go to the Skibo Information 
Desk and leave a message for Toby Ayre if you want to be a 
Security Monitor. If you want to be a Ticket Seller, you can leave 
a message for Dave Levy or you can go to a meeting this 
Thursday in Room 201 of Skibo.

---------------------------------------------------

Hugh D.-
If you can make it 40 years, 
we can last until May 15.
-Inspirationally yours, 
Some members of the 
class of 88
K.-
Youre just like your mother, 
Nuts! AAAAAAAAHHHHHHH!!! 
-P.
See. Look at that!
Bang Bang Piko 
Bang on Piko all day 
Who we gonna bang on 
When Piko goes away?
-The Chug Club
NinaHope you swam well. Missed 
ya this weekend.
-AK
Attention: All wise women - 
corporate scholars do it better.
Theyre saving me for the volcano 
-Kelly
Stan
K.J.
Keith
Tom
Poster Sale in D-BH
Youre not going to, surely?
DebbieWhen are we going to play 
downstairs?
-the joker downstairs
Kiltie Manager, upon finding out 
that they were serving frozen 
corn: Oh!.. .We made a mistake.
Why do I have to be a Tartan? 
GoofyHappy Birthday! (just a little 
early.)
-Love ya, Jeanie
WATCH OUTYou wont know when!
-John and the Delta Class
Hows my favorite Zoomie?
-Your friend from 
Pennsylvania
Dear F.-
Youre welcome! I have seen 
you wearing it and it looks good.
I want to tell you who I am, but I 
am scared.
-A.
PS: I think you have your suspi
cions.
Hey Jacuzzi!
Wish I was there or you were 
here or we were both elsewhere 
(Frog Hollow)
-Amazon
Well, you know what they say: 
MAAB, MAAB.
GENA watched pot never boils. 
ShingWhere were you on the nite 
of the 20th from 7:30 - 8:00 pm? 
Could it be...
-the architects minus friend
Dear Jim L.-
I think Im falling for your 
gorgeous baby face and red hair!! 
Why are you NEVER home when 
I finally get the nerve to call??!!
3 pm Wednesday - be there - 
please!!
-Love Whitney
PS: XXXOOO
Hey TimAre you related to Oral?
-The Army Fan Club
Hey MikeHow many penises in a foot? 
-Some guy with a 
splinter in his leg
ReneeI dont think I can make it 
through four years.
Rocky Mountain High... Colorado 
Maaark, you little faaart. I miss 
talking with you.
-Your ex from Cheyenne Days
JJ,C,B,(Cone)-
Far be it for me to speculate 
on the circumstances surrounding 
the situation, but 25 3/8 just isnt 
enough anymore.
Attention Females:
Evil Quiz - Question #1 
Are you Evil?
a. Yes
b. No
If answered a then youre evil 
If answered b then youre lying
P.J.-
So are you gonna be my 
valentine?
-S.A.
Kandy and AaronGood luck and best wishes! 
-Rob
Well, its not completely illegal. 
NADLooks like the Cubs need 
some help. Maybe Martini is 
available!
-The Ex-Scalpee
No, thats not right. Ive got to 
have lunch with the Prince. 
-Richard Cyert on WRCT
Hell make a hell of a king 
somday.
You just ask them?
-Richard P. Feynman
I expected floor and got dog.
Anyone here been raped and 
speak english?
I let other people plan my life for 
me, that way all I have to do is 
show up wearing appropriate 
clothing.
Q: How many feminists does it 
take to screw in a iightbulb?
A: Thats not funny!!
Send submissions to: 
Vox Populi 
c/o The Tartan 
Skibo Info Desk
Classified
Jobs/Wanted
THERES A JOB FOR YOU IN A 
SUMMER CAMP!
The American Camping Association (NY) 
will make your application available to over 
300 camps in the Northeast. Exciting oppor
tunities for college students and profession
als. Positions available: all land and water 
sports, arts & crafts, drama, music, dance, 
tripping, nature, R.N.s, M.D.s, Aides, 
kitchen, maintenance. College credit avail
able. Call or write for application. American 
Camping Association, 43 W. 23rd St., Dept 
(CM), New York, NY 10010, 1-800-777- 
CAMP.
COUNTER HELP WANTED. Full or 
part-time shifts available: 4-10, late night, 
and Friday and Saturday part-time. Starting 
rate $3.70. Apply in person. Original Hot 
Dog Shop Inc. 3901 Forbes Avenue.
ON-CAMPUS JOBS  Find out what 
opportunities you could be missing out on. 
Pick up a job directory in the Financial Aid 
Office on the 2nd floor of Warner Hall or 
look at the B-Board under Workstudy 
(non-workstudy positions also) on TOPS.
WANTED: STUDENTS: Earn extra 
money today, for the holidays and Spring 
Break 1988. No experience necessary, op
portunity to be your own boss, work your 
own hours, earn unlimited income, prizes 
and trips. Call today, Florida Sands Promo
tions (904) 257-2467
DO YOU LOVE CHILDREN, enjoy 
travel, want to save some money? Respon
sible energetic nannies needed for exclusive 
New York city area. Privacy, fringes, sum
mer and full-year job openings. Please call 
Mrs. Perkins 563-5599.
WE NEED YOUR HELP! The Committee 
on Drug and Alcohol Education is establish
ing a program and referral network to help 
students with substance abuse problems. If 
you are a recovering alcoholic or drug de
pendent student, we need your expert advice. 
If you can help call Chrissy at 621-2694.
Housing
TERRIFIC SUMMER HOUSING.
Lovely furnished rooms with private bath, 
maid and linen service, all utilities paid, 
parking and more. Weekly only $70. 
Monthly just $240. Call today 682-7025.
LOVELY AND SPACIOUS TWO BED
ROOM APT. Featuring sun porch,
equipped kitchen, air conditioning, carpet
ing, free parking and much more. Only 5 
minutes from campus, near Shadyside Hos
pital. Only $489 June or July availability. 
Short or long term lease available. Call today 
682-7025.
Services
RESEARCH PAPERS: 15,278 available! 
Catalog $2. Research, 11322 Idaho, 
#206XT, Los Angeles 90025. Toll free (800) 
351-0222, Ext. 33. Visa/MC or COD
PREGNANT? NEED HELP?  Confiden
tial counseling  Free pregnancy test  262- 
1220, Airport Area Crisis Pregnancy Center.
EXCLUSIVE SPRING BREAK OFFER!
Order your Spring Break 1988 Survival Kit 
for only $14.95. Kit includes: I survived 
Spring Break silk-screened t-shirt, bever
age wrap, condoms, and Spring Break bonus 
surprise. This is a limited offer. Send check 
or money order with t-shirt size (S-M-L-XL) 
to: Florida Sands Promotions, P.O. Box 
2720, Daytona Beach, FL 32015-2720/ 
(904) 673-4320. Pick up order forms at Ride 
Board, Skibo Hall.
MINUTEMAIDS: WE CUSTOMIZE 
OUR SERVICE TO YOUR HOUSE
KEEPING NEEDS. Serving Pittsburgh 8
years, insured & bonded, 682-3860. Free 
estimates.
TYPING SERVICE  Reasonable prices. 
Call 741-4838.
For Sale
FOR SALE  IBM XT Personal computer, 
monitor, two disk drives, enhanced key
board, $ 1500or best offer. 351 -5930, Ask for 
Gregg.
1970 DATSUN B210 FOR SALE. Auto
matic transmission, AM/FM cassette. Great 
for college. $700 or best offer. Call Val 
x4242/x8822.
FOR SALE: MGB 1977, SLICK BL1 
CONVERTIBLE. Engine good, body 
with no rust. Car is from California, Im a 
starving Grad student and must sell $2200 or 
Best Offer. Call Scott 621-5162 or leave 
message at x5671.
Miscellaneous
BUFFALO WINGS SPECIAL EVERY 
THURSDAY EVENING. Sod Bar, Semple 
Street.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D16The TartanMarch 8,1988
Events
/
3 Tuesday
Movies
Manon of the Spring, Part II of Jean De 
Florettefstarring Yves Montand, Daniel Ugolin and Emmanuelle Beart. This sequel to Jean 
de Florette takes place ten years after Jean has 
been destroyed by his greedy neighbors Cesar 
and Ugolin. In part II, Manon (Jeans 
daughter), now a beautiful young woman and 
an outcast from the community, seizes the 
opportunity to avenge her fathers death with 
shattering results. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Law and the Arts Seminar. Copyrights and 
Gallery Contracts at 3:30 pm in Hamburg Hall 
Auditorium. Presented by the Arts and Law 
Committee of the Allegheny County Bar 
Association in cooperation with the Masters of 
Arts Management Program at CMU.
Special Events
Mothers Day Out. Need a break from your 
daily routine? Want a chance to meet other 
women that share your interests? Then get 
involved with the Mothers Day Out program. 
Mothers Day Out is a non-profit, non-sectarian, volunteer run organization which meets 
every Tuesday at Rodef Shalom Temple in 
Oakland for three, 10-week terms during the 
school year. Quality child care is provided on 
premises for children, aged 3 months to kin
dergarten, of participants. Our goal is to pro
vide a diversion for women by providing 
weekly informal class and lecture sessions. 
Registration opens March 8th for the 88 
Spring Term (begins March 22nd). Fee for a 
mother and child for the 10-week term is $55. 
To register or for more information call: 521 - 
3612. Special Spring 88 Membership Drive, 
$5 off tuition charge for first time members 
only.
French Table. The Modem Languages De
partment sponsors a French Language table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
Alpha Phi Omega, the National Service Fra
ternity, meets every week at 8 pm in Breed 
Hall, MM 103. All are welcome.
9 Wednesday
Movies
Manon of the Spring, Part II of Jean De 
Florette, starring Yves Montand, Daniel Ugo
lin and Ertimanuelle Beart. Pittsburgh Play
house at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Lectures
Law and the Arts Seminar. Composer 
Contract, Copyrights and Opera Contract at 
3:30 pm in Hamburg Hall Auditorium. Pre
sented by the Arts and Law Committee of the 
Allegheny County Bar Association in coop
eration with the Masters of Arts Management 
Program at CMU.
Special Events
Explore your Jewish Heritage. Jewish Uni
versity Center, 160 N. Craig, at 7:30 pm. All 
you wanted to know about Judaism but were 
afraid to ask. No previous Judaic knowledge 
required. Kosher dinner available before class 
from 5:30 - 7:30 for $4.85.
Educational Action on Latin America 
group meeting. Skibo Rm. 112 at 7 pm. All are 
welcome. For more information call Peter at 
x7651.
Learn to Juggle! The Pittsburgh Juggling 
Club meets every Wednesday and Saturday at 
4:30 in Greymatter. Everyone invited. 
Spanish Table. The Modem Language De
partment sponsors a Spanish Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
Movies
Manon of the Spring, Part II of Jean De 
Florette, starring Yves Montand, Daniel Ugo
lin and Emmanuelle Beart. Pittsburgh Play
house at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission
$2.95.
The Cameraman, sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm. Admission $1.
Goldrush, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 
at 8 pm. Admission $1.
A Day at the Races,sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 10 pm. Admission $1.
Lectures
Department of Electrical And Computer 
Engineering Graduate Seminar. Dr. Ray
mond Wolfe, AT&T Bell Labs, speaks at 3:30 
pm in Scaife Auditorium. Refreshments are 
served at 3:15 pm.
Law and the Arts Seminar. Forms of Doing 
Business, Tax and Choosing an Agent, Busi
ness Manager, Lawyer at 3:30 pm in Hamburg 
Hall Auditorium. Presented by the Arts and 
Law Committee of the Allegheny County Bar 
Association in cooperation with the Masters of 
Arts Management Program at CMU. 
Bioengineering Graduate Seminar. Dr. 
William M. Deen, Chemical Engineering, 
MIT, speaks on Ultrafiltration in Kidney 
Capillaries: Engineering Perspectives on
Health and Disease at 9 am in the Wherrett 
Room, Skibo.
Department of Architecture Lecture.
Christian F. Otto, Cornell University, speaks 
on Three Views of Le Corbusier at 8 pm in 
the Multi-Purpose Room, basement of Hunt.
Special Events
The Theolog is In. From 11 am to 3 pm in 
Grey Matter, members of CMs Campus 
Ministry Council are available for conversa
tion on matters of theology, ethics or any
thing else youve always wanted to know 
about religion but were afraid to ask. Please 
stop by.
German Table. The Modem Language 
Department sponsors a German Language 
table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
n
 Friday
Movies
The Whales of August, starring Lillian Gish, 
Bette Davis, Ann Southern, Vincent Price and 
Harry Carey Jr. A lyrical film about coming to 
terms with life. Two sisters, who have spent 
60 summers on a Maine Island, come face to 
face with change and emotional dependency. 
Fine acting ensemble. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Spaceballs, sponsored by AB Films. DH 
2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. 
Admission $1.
Lectures
Carnegie Mellon Objectivist Forum. Dr.
Fred Seddon speaks on Axiomatic Concepts 
at 8 pm in Breed Hall, MM 103. Question 
period will follow. Admission $3; $1 for 
CMU students and free for members. The 
membership fee is $25 for the Spring 
semester. Club members may meet with 
speakers before the lecture at 4 pm.
Special Events
Shabbat dinner. Come and enjoy Friday 
night dinner with the crowd at JUC. Reserva
tions are required by preceding Wednesday. 
Jewish University Center, 160 N. Craig Street, 
at 5:30 pm. Price for dinner is $4.25 for 
members and $5.25 for non-members. Call 
621-8875 for details.
WRCT Schedule. The WRCT Spring Dance. 
Join all the hip RCT DJs for a rockin gig. 
Skibo Ballroom at 9 pm.
Saturday
Movies
The Whales of August, starring Lillian Gish, 
Bette Davis, Ann Southern, Vincent Price and 
Harry Carey Jr. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Roxanne, sponsored by SDC Films. DH 2210 
at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. Admission 
$1.
Special Events
Learn to Juggle! The Pittsburgh Juggling 
Club meets every Wednesday and Saturday at 
4:30 in Greymatter. Everyone invited.
Sunday*J!Wkm
Movies
The Whales of August, starring Lillian Gish, 
Bette Davis, Ann Southern, Vincent Price and 
Harry Carey Jr. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
The Enforcer, sponsored by AB Films. DH at
6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. Admission 
$1.
Special Events
WRCT Schedule. News Forum, Week-inReview and campus affairs show at 8:30 pm. 
Topic: Students Against Multiple Sclerosis. 
WRCTs frequency is 88.3 FM.  )
Movies
The Whales of August, starring Lillian Gish, ) 
Bette Davis, Ann Southern, Vincent Price and 
Harry Carey Jr. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Department of Art Visiting Artist Lecture.
Phoebe Adams, sculptor, speaks at 7 pm in 
WeH 7500. )
Special Events
Japanese Table. The Modem Language 
Department sponsors a Japanese Language 
Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining 
hall.
WRCT Schedule. Freedom of Speech, a 
student debate on controversial issues at 8:30 y 
pm. WRCTs frequency is 88.3 FM.
If you wish to submit an announcement, 
miscellaneous item, or event to The Tartan, 
send it to Campus Calendar / University 
Relations / Carnegie Mellon University / 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania / 15213.
Please submit the following information 
when sending in events: Title of event, its 
sponsor, a brief description of the event, and 
its locations, date and time. In addition, 
include the name and phone number of the 
person submitting the entry; this information 
will be used only to confirm the event.
Deadline for Calendar submissions is 
Wednesday at 5 pm for the next weeks 
issue.
k
ftT
ft
CAW. 2*8-Z///
FO/t
lit/ //V \/S i//\ iy I V-3>W y// li //
