The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 83, Number 2, September 14, 1982.
President 
proposes 
drink policy
By TERRY YOUNG
Tartan Staffurriter
President Ridhard Cyert circulated a pro
posed alcohol policy at the end of the last 
semester to crack down upon alcohol abuse 
on campus. The draft is open to review by 
students, faculty, and administration of the 
university, befbre any formal policy is 
announced.
Despite various rumors, Cyert denied that 
the draft is a major issue. He commented, I 
do not consider there to be any crisis on 
alcohol. Im not all concerned, it was just a 
minor memorandum.
However, Cyert is concerned with CMU 
upholding Pennsylvania law which prohib
its persons under 21 to be served alcoholic 
beverages, and CMUs reputation as an aca
demic institution of high quality. "Were 
trying to get department heads and deans to 
control drinking in academic areas, Cyert 
commented. "I want to eliminate the mix 
between alcohol and academics.
What this means specifically, according 
to Cyerts draft, is that, "No faculty member 
of the university or administrator should 
sponsor or participate in an official univer
sity event (one that involves the use of uni
versity property or funds) at which alcoholic 
beverages are being served to persons who 
are not 21 years of age. Furthermore, "Alco
holic beverages are not to be consumed any
where on the grounds of Carnegie-Mellon 
University. This guideline rules out picnics 
or parties at which alcohol is served on the 
Cut, on the Mall, in the Fraternity area 
grounds, in housing grounds, on the 
athletic field or in any other outdoor area at 
Carnegie-Mellon University.
Alcoholic beverages are also not permit
ted to be served in public spaces of academic 
buildings. However, Students within the 
privacy of their own dorm rooms, campus 
apartments, fraternities, or sororities are 
responsible for their own behavior, as long 
continued on page 6
By PEGGIE CLEVELAND
Tartan Staffurriter
Mary Suber, a campus police officer for 
the past three and a half years, was promoted 
to sergeant on September 1. She will be fil
ling a position opened when Sgt. Guy Pollice left the department this summer.
In view of her records, I felt she was the 
most qualified applicant to fill the posi
tion, said Security Director Robert Fadzen. 
The job was open to anyone within or 
outside of the University, who had at least 
one year prior experience. However, I piePhysics professor dies
David Bromberg (left) and friends performed Sunday on Flagstaff Hill. The conceit was sponsored by AB.
CMU since 1958. He was chairman of the 
physics department from 1961-72. Ashkin 
joined the University in 1950 after four years 
as assistant professor of physics at the Uni
versity of Rochester.
He was a nationally recognized researcher 
in particle physics, and was involved in the 
evolution of the field from nuclear physics.
Ashkin earned his doctorate from Colum
bia University in 1943 after earning a mas
ters degree in 1941 and a bachelors degree 
in 1940 from Columbia.
From 1943-46 he was a staff member at the 
Los Alamos, NM Scientific Laboratory. 
From 1942-43 he was a staff member in the 
Metallurgical Laboratory at the University 
of Chicago, working on the Manhattan 
Project.
Ashkin was a member of the American 
Association for the Advancement of Science, 
American .Physical Society, Sigma Xi, 
American Association of Physics Teachers, 
the Federation of American Scientists and 
the New York Academy of Sciences.
Suber promoted
Woman named new police sgt.
ferred to promote one of our officers. Pro
motion from within boosts morale and is an 
incentive for the officers to work harder.
Suber, the first woman at CMU to become 
a sergeant, said she is very excited about the 
opportunities the job has to offer. She is 
particularly interested in improving the 
image of the department. "A few people 
who have been with the department made 
the rest of us look bad, said Suber. "I want 
people to respect our officers and the work 
they do. Most people do not realize that we 
are police officers and not security guards. 
Everyone in our department has to go 
through lethal weapons training and we 
have the same rights that city police do, 
including the right to make arrests. We feel 
that CMU is our own little city and we want 
to keep it as safe as possible.
The role of the sergeant at CMU is impor
tant, according to Suber, since the campus 
community turns to campus police during 
nonbusiness hours for anything from emer
gencies to opening locked doors. The ser
geant in charge must be prepared to help the 
officers handle every situation and must 
know whom to notify in case of emergency.
This year many changes are being made 
in the sergeants job as well as in the rest of 
the department. Fadzen has been working 
on a new security management program 
since his appointment last October. I he old 
system was meant for a large department 
that needed checks and counter-checks. 
Since CMU is so small, this system created a 
lot of unnecessary work. Fadzen is in the 
process of cutting all of the excess paper 
work, implementing solutions to long term 
problems and increasing officer visibility to 
discourage crime.
One thing we want to do is eliminate the 
glorified supervisor who works out of the
office. Now, our sergeants will be field 
supervisors and monitor the officers activity 
on the radio while maintaining a patrol 
themselves, Fadzen said. "Also, the ser
geants will be on rotating shifts every four 
weeks. We feel that if our sergeants work 
each shift, they wont get caught-up in one 
routine. They will be familiar with the 
details of each turn.
In addition to their regular duties, the 
sergeants will also be involved in develop
ing community relations with the depart
ment. Suber will be in chaige erf setting up 
classes on rape prevention and nuisance tele
phone calls. Sergeants William Ricci and 
Richard Sima will also be involved in sim
ilar programs to aid students and staff.
In this issue:
Editorial
Everythings fuzzy.....................................page 2
News
New CIT dean named...........................page 5
Senate chair resigns..................................page 8
Features
Nip & tuck: CMU facelift.....................page 9
McGovern before Nixon.....................page 10
Entertainment
Forbes St. Gallery renovates..............page 15
"Officer & Gentleman review ... page 16 
Sports
Tartans beat Duquesne........................page 21
Girls tennis season begins...................page 22
Misc.
Cute doggie picture................................page 23JULIUS ASHKIN
Dr. Julius Ashkin, professor of physics, 
died June 4 at Montefiore Hospital. He was

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Everything's fuzzy  let's clear up the alcohol policy
Late last semester President Cyert made a 
first draft of an Alcohol Policy for CMU.
In addition to informing the Deans, Aca
demic Department Heads, and faculty, Cyert 
sent copies of the proposed policy to the Tar
tan, Student Senate, and Resident Assistants.
The entire policy can be found on page 20 of 
todays Tartan.
After reviewing this draft, we The Tartan 
editorial board find it difficult to agree with the 
policy. We also find it equally difficult to dis
agree with it.
Even for a first draft, this policy is unneces
sarily ambiguous, and non-commital. We can
not debate a policy that contradicts itself. We 
urge you to read it and prove us wrong.
We certainly do not advocate breaking the 
law. However, we do advocate freedom of cho
ice. We advocate an open-minded University 
administradon that gives its students some 
credit for being intelligent, and mature 
enough to behave responsibly, and present the
right image to the community.
Some quesdons arise with the policy as it 
stands. Section 2 states that official undergrad 
functions are permitted to serve alcohol only if 
a dean or department head is personally wil
ling to see that appropriate steps are taken to 
insure that the alcoholic beverages are served 
only to students who are 21 years of age or 
older. . .
In the past, parties in each college have 
served alcohol in addition to other refresh
ments. There have been no incidents as far as 
we know. Does this policy mean a more string
ent ban than what has been done in the past? 
We are confused, and hope the Student Senate 
will investigate and address the campus com
munity on this policy.
We are in need of a very clear, crystal clear 
policy because without one, we (even if we are 
21) are vulnerable to the subjective and arbi
trary enforcement of an ambiguous statement.
Another problem is the statement that there 
should be no drinking anywhere on the 
grounds of CMU, including fraternity area 
grounds, and in housing grounds.
Apparently drinking a mug of the foamy 
stuff inside the frat is okay as long as one does 
not step onto the porch. What if a brother is 21 
and steps onto the porch with a beer in his 
hand? He certainly is not breaking any PA law. 
But what does the University propose to do?
We hope that the administration listens to 
the student reaction to this alcohol policy. 
Because we feel that the rules set down by the 
administration should not under any circum
stances interfere with the rights of other per
sons, to use your own words Mr. President.
Letters to the editor should be submitted to 
the Skibo information desk and should be 
addressed to The Tartan. Please include name 
and phone number and submitt before 5:00 
p.m. on Friday.
Seriously folks, death is a depressing topic
By Nate Solano
On Wednesday of last week someone 
whose name Ill give to anyone who wants 
it, made a comment to the effect that my 
columns were shallow, not at all humorous, 
^ and probably composed at the
# typewriter at a maximum of fif^5^ teen (15) minutes.
As to prove this person wrong 
I intend to speak seriously on a subject 
which sooner or later effects us all, "Death. 
Allow me to define the two forms of death 
I see as being most predominant in our pres
ent society. There first exists physical death.
Although having become rather unpopu
lar in this day and age, physical death is a 
reality which can and should not be 
avoided. I do not personally find the 
thought of physical death enticing, nonethe
less it will one day claim me, and the world 
will be none the worse.
The second form of death is what I care to 
refer to as mental, or even better, idealogical 
death. Unlike physical death, idealogical 
death occurs most frequendy during an 
individuals early life.
Although scant traces of the illness lead
ing to this form of death are detectable dur
ing ones secondary educational years, the 
most telltale signs become apparent during 
ones higher education career.
It usually begins with subde apathy con 
ceming ones true surroundings, (nothing 
serious, just a casual tendency not to buck 
the system). Along with this comes a refusal 
to vote because all the candidates "suck and 
everyone is just a Republican in sheeps clo
thing anyway.
As the illness spreads it predominately 
affects the conscience subdy but quickly, 
attacking until nothing can be done for the 
individual, aside from humoring him or 
her. By now the individual has probably 
already pursued a major which is hated in 
the interest of gaining money over 
happiness.
If anything remains of the conscience at 
this point it can usually be purchased by 
IBM or U.S. Steel for eight hours per day 
(thats all it really takes) at a ridiculously low 
price considering that its a human mind 
theyre getting. One may ask why there 
arent telethons with celebrities like Tony 
Orlando to raise money to combat this idealogical death and indeed this is a fair 
question.
Pizza fanatic says not enough dough
By Catherine Stroud Vodrey
I recendy figured out that I must have 
spent over $200.00 on pizza last year. I 
almost always order from Dominos, which 
charges $4.85 for a small pepperoni (hard^ core pizza fanatics dont bother 
to tack pizza onto the end of
^ each combination).
Round that up to $5.00, and 
you have about 20 pizzas per semester, or 
slighdy more than one per week. This is a 
ridiculous amount of money to spend on 
pizza, as my father will gladly tell you.
In looking over my checkbook this 
summer to figure out why Mellon Bank 
thought I owed them $64.71, he noticed the 
frequent appearance of the name "Domi
nos. My first impulse was to tell him that 
Domino was an Italian grad student who 
was tutoring me in computing.
Good Lord/' he muttered, flipping from 
page to page. "There are quite a few checks 
made out to Dominos here. Good Lord. I 
thought they had eadng facilities on 
cam pus.
"Um, they do, I replied meekly. How 
could I explain the urge inherent in almost 
all college students to have pizza as often as 
they can afford it (or even more than that)?
Fondness for pizza is not confined to a few
select students. Two nights ago, as I was 
studying, I heard a lone voice call out, 
Dominos, Dominos!
Others soon took up the cry until there 
were a half-dozen students, all precariously 
leaning from various dorm windows, chant
ing to the man in the red-and-blue striped 
shirt who carried  oh, bliss!  a pizza and 
free Cokes to some lucky, hungry student.
Catherine Stroud Vodrey is a sophomore 
majoring in creative writing and is a colum
nist for The Tartan.
CMU - rush; girls what next?
By Paul Spillane
Pen has been set to paper for chapter one 
of the story erf the development and inevita
ble change erf an innocent persp>ective on his 
journey toward the real mans world . . .
As I embarked on the voyage 
of an H&SS Freshman, I entered 
a world that knew none of my 
familiar references: the red of a 
Phillies batdng helmet, the music of the 
Hooters or of Robert Hazard and the 
Heroes, the familiar faces of friends and 
family.
My dad had nothing but compliments 
about the campus; this was something  it 
takes an awful lot to impress my dad enough 
to compliment anything. Im on my own 
now; its what we all look forward to.
Among other things, ! was a little wary of  
the whole boy-girl thing at college. Back in
Unfortunately those of us suffering from 
this death find it almost impossible to detect, 
and when traces of it appear, it is usually 
laughed off (few are prepared to admit this 
disease let alone batde it.)
Incidentally, even if you agree with these 
proposed insights, sail, you are probably 
suffering from idealogical death and its mis
erable effects.
So there it is, a serious, miserably bitter 
column which should depress those 
humans among us. I hope you enjoyed it 
because I didnt.
If you care to contact me my phone 
number is 687-6404. Ill be in the Senate 
office from 3:00-5:00 p.m. on Wednesday 
and from 7:00-9:00 p.m. on Thursday (the 
beer offer still holds).
Ever so seriously,
/far
August, at home in Valley Forge, which is a 
small, naive suburb of Philadelphia, my 
best friend and I were pondering what this 
scene would be like.
Yes, wed heard all about the decadent 
society of college, and we finally voiced the 
same concern: At college, can you just go 
out with a girl, have a good time, and kiss 
her goodnight, or do you have to her at 
the end of the evening? I mean, its nice to 
have the choice!
We hopefully concluded that one could 
find groups of people with the same lifestyle 
as us, as well as many people with contrast
ing lifestyles, with whom we were also very 
eager to come into contact.
I dont know what else to expect here at 
camp CMU. I havent yet had much contact 
with the much talked about outer fringes 
continuad on paga 3
Nate Solano is a junior majoring in AMS 
and is president of the student government.
Tlielaitan.
Editor-in-Chief..............................Alice Alfonsi
Managing Editor........................Vince Guinto
Business Manager......................Louise Crocoll
News Editor '................................Monica Cellio
Features Editor..............................Geof Bee ker
Entertainment Editor.....................Susan Petrie
Sports Editor ................................Jeff Bergman
Photography Editor.....................John Stilwell
Typesetting Manager.......................Patti Carlisle
Associate News Editor.............Joanne Savinell
Assoc Photo Editor......................Gene Yonish
Asst Entertainment........................John Gantine
Asst Bus. Man....................    Kathleen Wasch
Subscriptions ....................... Kathy Wasch
Classifieds................................. Robert Solomon
Production Staff: Peter Bain, Margaret Eissler, 
Ross Serin, Carol Speranza, Cars ten Thode, Dan 
Tobias, Bonnie Topf, and Pauline Wen.
Copyright  1982 by The Tartan. The Editorial Board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication any 
copy it deeifts Unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo 52, 
(412) 578-2111. 24 hour phone. (412) 578-21 IS. Mailing 
address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh PA 15213. 
Funded by he Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

September 14, 1982The TartanPage 3
Eco-week
Economy still distressing
By Wayne I. Cutler
Three months have elapsed since depart
ing school last May, and much has hap
pened in the economy.
First the good newsHenry Kaufman 
the chief economist at Solomon 
Brothers, recently changed his 
pessimistic view of interest rates, 
the stock market has surged to 
new trading highs, and the recent tax 
revenue raising bill has created new hope on 
a balanced budget.
Now the bad newsunemployment has 
reached a staggerring 9.8%, factories are 
operating at 68.6% of capacity, and Kauf
mans view erf lowered interest rates are for 
the wrong reasons.
In the past month, the highly followed 
 prime interest rate, the rate at which banks 
lend tp their most creditable customers, has 
declined from 10% to 13H%. This decline is 
easing difficulties firms have been having 
raising capital in the past year.
The decline in interest rates and the tax 
bill have been motivating factors in the 
recent upsurge in the stock market. When 
interest rates decline, businesses with large 
portfolios (i.e. pension funds) and individu
als with savings shift their money from the 
money market funds to the stock market 
! which has recently broke the all time trading 
high. The money is transferred because 
investors can obtain a higher yield on their 
money in the stock market when interest 
rates drop to low levels.
However, while these indicators appear 
promising, one must be careful not to evade 
the big picture.
Unemployment has reached a dangerous
Freshman life
'aontinuad from pag* 2
of school; you know, the ones rumored to 
live in the academic buildings of their 
college.
These innocent eyes havent really seen 
the alleged mutants of the Science Hall 
(excuse me, new wavers, I meant Wean 
Hall) computer room, who havent seen the 
light of day in months. Nor do I really know 
about the group of dramats about whom 
everyone speaks so vividly and colorfully. 
Nof have my opinions yet solidified about 
this deluge of fraternities that have, of late, 
been inviting me so cordially to their wide 
range of social activities.
I had never seen Uncle Andrews creation 
until I arrived for freshman camp. Neverthe
less, I have been, perhaps rather foolishly, 
looking forward to CMU as the next chapter 
in my lifes nonstop adventure.
At this early date, I still view college life 
from an innocent perspective. Future edi
tions of this column will serve as a chronicle 
of the evolution, for better or worse, erf an
* instance of relative naivete at CMU. In time, 
who knows? Can the innocent perspective 
survive?
Paul Spillane is a freshman majoring in 
humanities and is a columnist for The 
Tartan.
9.8% and this isnt even the full representa
tion. Another 1.5% have become too discour
aged in their job search and therefore are not 
reported in the unemployment statistics.
Three weeks ago, the highly followed 
financial analyst, Henry Kaufman declared 
that interest rates will fall in the near future. 
Unfortunately, people failed to listen to the 
reasons why. Kaufman feels that rates will 
drop because the economy is extremely 
weak and loan demand has been declining.
What does this spell out? S-L-O-W R-EC-O-V-E-R-Y! Businesses lack confidence 
that the economy will rebound in the near 
future. With business bankruptcies being 
48% greater than in 1980, firms are reluctant 
to commit themselves to new investments. 
Theyre just trying to keep their heads above 
water.
The full brunt of the recovery wont take 
effect until confidence improves and rates 
come down more, probably early 1983.
Wayne Cutler is a senior majoring in 
Managerial economics and is a columnist 
for The Tartan.
Freshmen college lifeRebellion against freshmen repression
By Orpheus Allison
During the recent orientation given for 
the freshman class, the Food Service tested 
the plausibility of an Applied History Les
son under the auspices of the Orientation 
^ Committee. According to eyewitness reports, the Freshman 
 students were given two articles 
of material to wear.
One article was a blue T-shirt. The other 
was a white band of the type commonly 
used by hospitals as a means of identifying 
patients. The reason given for the wearing 
erf the bands was to prohibit the upperdass 
students from attempting to invade the feed
ing lines that were meant only for the fresh
man students.
In addition to the bands, the students' were 
given tickets to turn in at the cash register. 
Several students felt that this was an attempt 
to single them out for extra problems espe
cially since, many of them did not under
stand the purpose erf the bands.
It should also be noted here that after the 
second day, very few students were to be seen 
wearing the white bands. Some felt that they
were stupid. Others felt that they were really 
not needed. And a few drew allusions to the 
yellow stars that the Jewish people were 
required to wear when they ventured out 
into the public view.
It is this third viewpoint that is the most 
interesting. Why should students who have 
not even lived during the time of the great 
Jewish Repression feel that by wearing the 
white bands would be of the same derivation 
as the wearing of yellow stars was to the 
Jews?
White symbolizes innexDence and purity. 
It also is highly visible. While not as highly 
visible as yellow, it can be seen quite well in 
most viewing conditions. Now the stated 
purpose was to prevent the upperclass stu
dents from "cradling the events scheduled 
for the Freshman students.
The first event that was scheduled for the 
freshman students was a western style bar
becue held on the cut Here, the students 
were required to wear their bands and pres
ent their tickets which would be taken and 
used for accounting purposes by the Food 
Service people. As would prove the case for
the majority of events, some students did 
wear the bands as requested. Others wrapped 
them around their fingers. And others still 
just presented their tickets as requested.
At all other events that the students 
attended, no bands were checked for nor 
were any students refused admission to the 
cafeteria unless they could not show that 
they had tickets for the meal. The tickets 
proved much easier to check than did white 
bands. Especially since after the second day, 
many erf the freshmen were not wearing the 
bands.
The attempt to apply history failed. In 
part, it was due to the awareness that many 
students had as to the true meaning behind 
the separation erf them and the other stu
dents at CMU.
Also, many felt that it was easier to hand a 
ticket to the cashier than to wear a band and 
hand a ticket in as well.
It also failed because erf peer pressure from 
the students who were already here.
Leam from the lessons erf the past so that 
they will not be repeated again.
Orpheus Allison is a freshman majoring in 
History and is a columnist for The Tartan.LettersGreek's expandability explored
Editor
If any one of the fraternities on campus 
were to have its charter revoked, what would 
be done with the empty building? I have a 
few possibilities in mind which I would like 
to submit for your consideration.
We could let it sit idle until the unlucky 
fraternity were to be given its charter back, 
but space being as scarce as it is on campus 
this idea would be quite infeasible. Lets
consider something else.
We could turn the building into a student 
union. Thus eliminating the whole 
problem of not being able to build on the 
Cut until the year 2000.
We could give a charter to a new Greek 
organization. It would be called Gamma 
Delta Iota, the Mavericks fraternity. It 
would work the same as other fraternities in 
the sense that it could rent out rooms to 
some members and feed up to 200 who 
choose to abstain from partaking in Skibo 
viands. This fraternity would also constitute 
a Greek counterculture, since it would 
exclude nobody on campus except for other 
Greeks. It would also be nem-sexist, since it 
would have siblings, or some related word, 
in place of "brother. None of this "little 
sister balderdash. Of course, we could 
always drop the Greek pretext altogether 
and call it the CMU iconoclast society or 
something.
This could create an important social 
alternative to those who chexwe to abstain 
from being called a Greek. There would be a
brother/sisterhood. It would be a gathering 
place for individuals who chex>se to go their 
own way rather than rely on a prefabricated 
peer group. It would erffer the advantages erf 
Greek life without the disadvantage of 
losing ones individuality or catering to a 
group ideal.
The cost of being part of this organization 
could easily be carried through the schools 
billing system or administered by the 
organization itself, much the way Greeks go 
about getting their bills paid.
Of course, the utilization erf this ieka 
would depend upon several things. First, a 
probate fraternity nex behaving; second, the 
University would have to agree to the plan, 
and not give the building to an established 
fraternity; third, the fraternity whose charter 
is revoked would not be given ft bade; and 
fourth, the University would have to be 
willing to try something new.
I doubt if any of this is going to come to 
pass; since fraternities that are presently 
walking the disciplinary tightrope

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanSeptember 14, 1982
More letters
Terminal futureComp Center changes further isolate community
Editor:
After three years at this school, I have finally 
decided to express my opinion on a fairly 
controversial subject: the future of comput
ing at CMU. CMUs computing facilities 
have dramatically changed since I was a 
freshman. We now have six systems instead
il three and each college has its own as 
opposed to all undergraduates on one. 
However, the steps which the Computation 
Center has reoendy taken, do not look like 
there are advantages to the student.
The Comp Center was a social contact 
(not social party) center where one could 
write programs, get help from neighbors, 
work on mass projects and just generally 
meet people to discuss computing (or wha
tever). This has all changed. There are now 
terminals scattered all over campus. 
Although it is only the beginning erf the 
semester, there are, unbelievably, empty ter
minals in the traditionally full 5th floor 
Wean (read Science) Hall terminal room. 
This is true even on peak hours. In addition, 
freshmen have been placed in their own 
little terminal room with their own compu
ter apart from the rest. Even in the old termi
nal room, one could talk to your neighbor 
fairly easily but this is more difficult with 
partitions separating the terminals. All of 
these moves have made it more diffucult to
talk about or get help on various computing 
facilities.
The latest development in these stages is 
to bring in personal computers. Whether 
these are tied onto one system is irrevelent. 
The fact is that everybody will be separated 
even more so in a university that already 
lacks adequate social contact facilities (wit
ness the Student Union). It is true that there 
are advantages to the new system but most 
people that I have spoken with agree that 
this is not the right direction to take. I will 
not be around when or if this system of 
personal computers is installed, however, I 
believe it is in the students best interest not to
Ashkin missed
Editor
I was distressed when I found out that 
Professor Julius Ashkin died on June 4,
1982. Professor Ashkins love of physics, 
teaching and his students was clear to all 
who sat in his classroom.
One of my greatest pleasures as an under
graduate physics major was my course in 
mechanics taught by Julius Ashkin.
take this approach.
Here are some suggestions I have. Fresh
men using their own computer is a great 
idea, but dont put them in their own room; 
how are they going to get help from upper
classmen? Installing new terminals is neces
sary, but, a central place must be found 
instead of small areas in Morewood or Mar
garet Morrison. It might make sense to have 
a seperate system or room for users of Scribe
(the CMU word processor) since many stu
dents use it for reports. These are just a few 
ideas that I have which may not have been 
discussed previously. Dont forget that a 
decision such as the future of computing 
will affect ever body.
Scott Whitman 
Senior Applied Math/Computer ScienceWomen at CMU-endangered species?
Editor:
Some interesting statistics:
The total number of undergraduates in 
CIT increased from the 80-81 to the 81-82
semester after freshmen had declared their 
majors.)
In an unrelated matter, tuition for parttime students at CMU (who pay by the unit) 
increased 46.7% this year over last. It was $60 
per unit; now the cost is $88 per unit.
Jacki Cochrane 
EE83
David Goldei
school year, but the number of female 
undergraduates in CIT dropped from 265 in 
80-81 to 244 in 81-82. In percentages this was 
a drop from 20% to 17.7% female enrollment 
in CTT. (Statistics collected in the spring
Fraternity alternatives proposed
continued from page 3
make regular contributions to the 
University alms exchequer, so the 
oossibility of a suspended fraternity not 
getting its charter back is slim. Still, would 
the University agree? I doubt it, but thats 
my personal pessimism, which can be taken 
or left.
Then why did I write this article? I just 
thought Id strike a thought in those 
dormant gray cells youve been carrying 
around, and fear into the hearts of 
institutions that believe that they arent 
expendable.
Chris Johnston 
Sophomore in Creative Writing
Jog FftESHMMby Mark Levine
HEYJ VWATS >/'tH TH I 
f #6tAStffftiiTO C./A.u./"
C.M.U.THINKS 
XM A TOSWlWA&AtN...
vvT
The hNw
TERYOU A>vTWr.'NHy . ,HACVcFft'! \WfcEUSlEDl lin/TvKtft a x cucFpl n s 2TOC./Au"C2 6 ic.keAtLAST YEAR... ///%
1
/\
COLLEGIATE COUPON
McClures
Carpeting
Ask for DAVE GERMAN
1701 E. Carson Street (5 Minutes from Oakland) 381-5140Paint Supplies All Styles All colors Room size rugs, remnents
15% Discount on carpeting 
(9 x 12 Carpet Only $39.95) ^5
BRING IN COUPON
Pittsburgh is our home. Lets clean house!Pittsburgh Clean City Committee, Inc.
SEX
STRESS
SHYNESS
Three workshops being offered 
dealing with these  see 
classified ads for more 
information or call 578-2922.
There will be a meeting of the 
first and second generation 
Holocaust Sunrivors Group 
on Wednesday, September 15 at 
8:00 p.m. at the Jewish 
Community Center in Squirrel 
Hillt Murray and Forbes, Room 
204. Survivors and children of 
survivors are most welcome.
CALL 971-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

September 14, 1982The TartanPage 5
  I ^I. ...I  I .I i I,
1
ME MS Head Sekerka promoted to dean
photo by Steve Winawer
By MARGARET EISSLER
Tartan Staffwritcr
Although he is the new MCS dean, 
Robert Sekerka is not a newcomer to CMU. 
He was promoted from department head of 
Metallurgical Engineering and Materials 
Science, which he had held for the last six 
years.
Sekerka started his undergraduate work at 
the University of Pittsburgh night school, 
but finished as a full-time day student, earn
ing a bachelors degree in theoretical phys
ics. He then went to Harvard, where he 
received his masters degree, again in theo
retical physics. Westinghouse employed 
him here while he performed research at 
night in MCS for graduate studies. Sekerka 
began his long career here as an associate 
professor in 1969.
"I am beginning to shape ideas and make 
my ideas known. I am getting a better pers
pective of the whole university, Sekerka 
said. He added, I miss the contact with 
students and I will try to see them as much as 
I possibly can.
Sekerka already has several goals for 
MCS. He would like MCS to be a science 
college for the sake of science. First on his
agenda is the careful choosing of a suitable 
person to head the department of chemistry. 
The dean wants someone who is capable of 
leading the department into the future.
Related to this goal is the possibility that 
the chemistry facilities will be renovated. 
People dont realize how fast equipment 
becomes obsolete. Its also expensive to out
fit a laboratory for research, he commented. 
The plan is not a certainty, though, because 
a large amount of money has already been 
spent on building biological facilities.
Sekerka will also be studying the suitabil
ity of a separate undergraduate program for 
computer science. However, he said, at this 
time it is only a thought. Sekerka feels that 
he must be sure there is an intellectual base 
for a computer science degree as an entity 
unto itself, rather than just electrical engi
neering and applied math majors electing to 
take computer science courses. CMU has 
great potential in the computational scien
ces. It ranks in the top three with MIT and 
Stanford, he stated.
Although he has such weighty decisions 
to make, Sekerka is enjoying the job and 
wants to work together with the administra
tion and the department heads.
This calculator thinks business, TheTI Student Business Analyst
If theres one thing undergrad 
business students have always 
needed, this is it: an affordable, 
business-oriented calculator. 
The Student Business Analyst. 
Its built-in business formulas 
let you perform complicated 
finance, accounting and 
statistical functionsthe ones 
that usually require a lot of 
time and a stack of reference 
books, like present and future 
value calculations, amortizatjons and balloon payments.
It all means you spend less 
time calculating, and more 
time learning. One keystroke 
takes the place of many.
The calculator is just part
of the package. You also get 
a book that follows most 
business courses: the Business 
Analyst Guidebook. Business 
professors helped us write it, 
to help you get the most out 
of calculator and classroom.
A powerful combination.
Think business. flw-, 
With the Student 
Business Analyst.
sparofCongiwpCno

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanSeptember 14, 1982
MEMS head promoted1
Bernstein fills CIT vacancy left by Sekerka
I. Melvin Bernstein has been appointed 
head of the department of metallurgical 
engineering and materials science to replace 
Robert Sekerka, who was recendy named 
dean of MCS.
According to CIT Dean Angel G. Jordan, 
Bernstein, professor of metallurgical engi
neering and materials science, has been a 
driving force for educational development 
in both the department and in CIT.
As one erf the nations leading metallur
gists, and as head of one of the most highly 
respected metallurgical engineering and 
materials science departments, Professor
Bernstein will undoubtedly exert leadership 
in the metallurgical community and profes
sion, Jordan said.
Bernstein, an expert on deformation and 
fracture in iron, has been associate dean of 
CIT. He joined the CMU faculty in 1972, 
leaving the E.G Bain Laboratory for Funda
mental Research at U.S. Steel Corporation, 
where he conducted studies of the relation
ship erf steel microstructure to its mechani
cal properties, and of the effects erf hydrogen 
on the metals properties.
Educated at Columbia University, where
Paper contest announced
The Engineering Education Committee 
of the American Railway Engineering Asso
ciation is sponsoring a Student Paper Com
petition during the 1982-1983 academic 
year, and is inviting college students to 
participate.
Some of the highlights erf the competition 
are as follows: the contest will be open to 
undergraduate students enrolled in an 
ABET accredited college or university 
(AUCC in Canada). A participating student 
will submit a paper, not less than 3,000 
words nor more than 5,000 words, and an 
abstract between 300 and 500 words on a 
subject related to Railroad Engineering. 
Entry forms are available at the head of the 
Civil Engineering department. Completed 
forms are due November 15,1982. The dead
line for submittal erf the paper is January 10,Physics society honored
CMUs chapter of the Society of Physics 
students (SPS) was one erf 35 to be designated 
as Outstanding SPS Chapters for 1981-82 
by Zone Councillors representing the SPS 
National Council.
The awards (certificates) were originated 
in 1978 to give recognition to the student 
chapters for their work in the promotion of 
physics through their chapters. Judgment 
for the awards was based on chapter activity
on-campus faculty and student speakers, 
films, SPS social events, chapter member
ship (both SPS and, if applicable, Sigma Pi 
Sigma), outstanding chapter projects, out
side guest lectures and SPS-related tours, 
Bendix Award and Marsh W. White award 
proposals submitted as well as awards 
granted, student papers presented at SPS 
and other scientific meetings, and student 
attendance at-and participation in--SPS 
zone or regional meetings as well as hosting
as demonstrated through regular meetings, of*SPS zone or regional meetings.Aid director promoted
Walter G Cathie, director erf financial aid 
since 1974, has been appointed associate vice 
president for financial resources at CMU.
Cathie, 39, has responsibility for financial 
aid programs, career planning and place
ment and assistance to parents in financing 
a CMU education for their children.
Cathie came to CMU after four years as 
director of financial aid at Allegheny Col
lege. From 1965-69 he served as a captain in 
the United States Air Force.
He earned a master of business adminis
tration degree in 1970 from Stetson Univer
sity in Florida and a bachelors degree in 
business management in 1965 from Davis 
and Elkins College in West Viiginia.
Cathie has been a financial aid consultant 
to colleges, universities, government agendes, educational organizations and corpora
tions. He is past vice-president erf the 
Pennsylvania Association erf Student Finan
cial Aid Administrators and has received a 
national award and prize in financial aid 
from the College Entrance Examination 
Board.
he received his bachelors, masters and doc
torate, Bernstein was a post-doctoral 
research fellow at the Berkeley Nuclear 
Laboratory in England. He is a member of 
the Metallurgical Society of the American 
Institute of Mining Engineers, the Ameri
can Society for Metals, the American Society 
for Engineering Education and the Ameri
can Association for the Advancement of
Science.
In 1973, 1975 and 1980, he co-diaired 
international conferences on the effect of 
hydrogen cm metals. Bernstein is an asso
ciate editor of the journal, "Metallurgical 
Transactions, and of the Handbook of 
Stainless Steels, published by McGrawHill. The author of more than 90 technical 
papers, he also has co-editied four books.
Cyert establishes policy
1983.
Cash prizes will be awarded to the top 
seven (7) papers. First Prize is $1,200 and an 
all-expense paid trip to Chicago for the 
annual AREA Technical Conference in 
March, 1983. Second Prize is $600, and the 
next five Honorable Mention papers will 
each receive $125. The winning entrant will 
also present a summary to the Technical 
Conference and the entire paper will be pub
lished in the AREA Bulletin.
Additional information may be obtained 
from Mr. Charles Chambers, Railco Multi 
Construction, Inc., 13939 S.W. Edy Road, 
Sherwood, Oregon 97140 (Phone: (503) 625- 
5587); or Mr. Larry Etherton, Norfolk 8c 
Western Railway Co., Railway Exchange 
Building, St. Louis, Missouri 63101 (Phone: 
(314) 425-8962).
continued from page 1
as their behavior does not violate Pennsylva
nia state law, according to the policy.
Several fraternity members, who wished 
to remain anonymous, were upset by the 
policy and claimed that Cyert was imposing 
on their rights. One student claimed that the 
policy was only meant to restrict the fraterni
ties on Forbes Avenue, which are more vis
ible to the public.
The policy states alcoholic beverages 
served at outdoor parties present the wrong 
image to the community, and control of 
access is difficult if not impossible. Cyert 
said, however, that the policy was not an 
attack on any specific fraternities.
Cyert maintained that the lack of enforce
ment of the present policy led him to search 
for a workable policy he could issue. The 
revised policy mil take effect later this year.
170 rush sororities
By SUSAN BOSSI
Tartan Staffwriter
Sororities here had their biggest turnout 
' TIuring Rush this semester, according to 
Susan Yarmoff, Rush chairman for Kappa 
Alpha Theta. Approximately one hundred 
and seventy girls signed up. Aside from this 
increase, the format for Rush has also been 
altered.
Rush began on September first and will 
continue until tomorrow, a shorter period 
than usual. The five sororities kicked off 
Rush ceremonies in the traditional manner, 
with the Ice Cream Social. However, instead 
of following up with a progressive dinner 
(one in which each house makes one course 
and various groups of girls travel from one 
house to another), four progressive parties 
were scheduled.
With the occurrence of each progressive 
party, each rushee is expected to drop one 
sorority from the list that she will visit. In 
turn, the girls spend a larger amount of time
at each sorority.
Rush at CMU is headed by two Panhel 
chairmen. This years chairmen are Kim 
Dorfler and Susan Mahler. The job of a 
Panhel chairman is to set dates for each 
party and to make certain that there are no 
Rush violations.
In addition, there is a Rush chairman 
assigned in each sorority. Rush counselors 
(two or three from each house) act as media
tors between their sorority and the girls 
going through Rush. Because of them Rush 
is kept as unbiased as possible.
Pledge quota is set according to the 
number of girls attending the first invita
tional party divided by five. This number 
signifies the maximum number of pledges 
each house can accept. Last semesters quota 
was fourteen, but it is expected to be higher 
this semester.
At the end of the Rushing period, each 
girl has a choice of two houses to which she 
would like to belong. On bid day, Sep
tember sixteenth, pledges are chosen.
Procrastinators: want to change your 
ineffectiveness, self-reproach, and the 
costs of delay? Another Procrastina
tors Workshop, led by psychologists, 
begins Friday, September 24, 7 to 10 
PM (so dont procrastinate).
Eight sessions through November 12, 
$175.00.
Call Stephen Linn 486-4073.
FOOTBALL SPECIAL
Bring a Tartan or Steeler ticket stub in 
and receive a 20% discount on all 
frames. Students must show ID card.VALLEY OPTICAL
for all your eyeglass needs 
5820 Forbes Ave.
422-2020 
upper level of Gils 
Squirrel Hill
DO YOU NEED HELP WITH TESTS?
Can you use some study tips? Ways to read faster?Study better?Attend a workshop  see classified ads for more information or call 578-2922.
YOUR BSN IS WORTH AN OFFICER'S COMMISSIONIN THE ARMY.Your BSN means youre a professional. In the Army, it also means youre an officer. You start as a full-fledged member of our medical team. Write: Army Nurse Opportunities,; P.O. Box 7713, Burbank, CA 91510.
ARMY NURSE CORPS.BE ALLYOU CAN BE._____

---------------------------------------------------

September 14, 1982The TartanPege 7
Counseling offers new workshops for fall
By MONICA J. CELLIO
Tartan News Editor
The change in our name reflects the fact 
that we offer services to a wide variety of 
students, said Dr. Judy Grumet, director of 
the Counseling and Student Development 
Center. Included in these services is a new 
workshop series, which will begin this
week.
These workshops include Speaking of 
Sexuality, Career Decision Making, Manag
ing Stress, Speed Reading, Effective Study
ing, Taking Tests, and Sometimes Its 
Difficult to Say Hello. Except for the speed 
reading workshop, all of these workshops 
will be conducted by the centers staff.
Speed Reading is the only workshop 
which has a fee. According to Grumet, it 
was necessary to hire someone from outside 
the University to teach this one. This work
shop was originally requested by Student 
Senate, she said, and has been popular in the 
past.
The workshop on sexuality came from 
direct student input, Grumet said. After the 
Sex at 8 program last year by Student 
Affairs, a number of students said they 
wanted an opportunity to continue the dis
cussions, she added.
The workshops on studying and test tak
ing are always needed, according to 
Grumet. The brightest students have the 
greatest need for these; they didnt have to 
leam to study in high school, she said.
Stress, Grumet feels, is a product of our
times, and there is a reality to the feeling of 
high pressure of being at CMU. For this 
reason the stress workshop was added.
The other workshops were based on gen
eral student problems, Grumet said.
The center is expanding in other areas, 
Grumet added. They are now more active in 
outreach work, consulting, freshman orien
tation, training of resident assistants, and 
staff development. We are trying to reach a 
broad section of the community, she said, 
"and there has been renewed interest this 
year.
Two members of the staff in addition to 
Grumet are conducting the workshops. 
These staff members are Lori Rabin and 
Walter Abel. Rabin, who is a doctoral candi
date at the University of Pittsburgh, has 
continued on page 8
Walter Abel, Lon Rabin, and Judy Grumet discuss plans for the series of workshops to be 
offered by the Counseling and Student Development Center.
Phi Kap holds fundraiser
By JOANNE SAVIN ELL
Tartan Associate News Editor
The CMU community and people of the 
surrounding area are invited to "strut their 
stuff while raising money for Childrens 
Hospital at the Phi Kappa Theta dance 
party and marathon. The dance will begin 7 
p.m. Saturday, September 18, and conclude 
Sunday, 1 p.m. with the awarding of prizes 
to the surviving couples. Registration for 
the marathon is from 6 to 7 p.m. Saturday.
The grand prize, a dinner for two at 
LeMont, on Mount Washington, will be 
presented to the couple determined by the 
judges to be the most energetic throughout 
the eighteen hours. All couples who dance 
the entire time will receive prizes of dinners 
for two at other local restaurants.
Door prizes, donated by local businesses, 
will be given out every hour during a fiveminute rest break. Disc jockeys from B-94 
FM will provide the music, ranging from 
disco and rock to ballroom style.
Admission charge is one dollar per per
son, which buys three chances for the door 
prizes plus some refreshments. A pancake 
breakfast will be served 9:30 Sunday morn
ing for 25C.
Otto Lopez, in charge of planning the 
dance, hopes to give Childrens Hospital at 
least a $1000 donation. I believe we can do 
that without any problem, said Lopez.
Lopez stressed that all are encouraged to 
come and dance, not just those competing 
in the marathon. The main purpose of the 
dance, he added, is to unite the campus 
under a Greek activity.. .Were looking exit 
towards the campus and saying we want to 
have a good time with you.
SAVE UP TO 50%
ON YOUR LONG 
DISTANCE CALLS
MCI
For a free brochure that answers questions about MCI, just fill out and send in the coupon on the right. Or call us at 787-8885 between 9 a.m. and 8 p.m. Monday thru Friday, and 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Saturdays.
The nations long distance 
phone company.
NAME
ADDRESS ______
CITY STATE ZIP 
TELEPHONE NUMBER
# *
Please call me after 5:00 p.m. LJ 
MCI Telecommunications Corp. BLDG #1, Suite 420 
Campbells Run RD
Pittsburgh, PA 15276

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanSeptember 14, 1982
Senate chair resigns
photo by Chuck Hartmann
The Kiltie Band performed for football Cans last Saturday.
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Staffwriter
I want more time to drink beer with 
Albie Camissa, said Ed Novak of his resig
nation as chairman of the Student Senate. 
Novak, who has held the job for the past six 
months, resigned last Tuesday amid the 
confusion of the new year.
"There wasnt enough time, he said. I 
was working twelve to sixteen hours a week 
for the Senate and I also had a job; there was 
no time left for studying. And, as a senior, I 
also want more time to relax.
As Student Senate Chairman, Novak, a 
senior in AMS, found himself busy doing 
administrative work with officials, and 
organizing committee meetings and various 
activities. In addition to Senate work he was 
also holding a job with the H. P. Maynard
Co., a summer job he will keep throughout 
the school year. The time factor is the main 
reason for his resignation.
I feel I have bettered school life, com 
men ted Novak about his term as Senate 
Chair. Some improvements he mentioned 
concerned the food service and 
Ive enjoyed my term as chairman. Ive had 
a chance to meet a lot of interesting people 
and I feel that working for the Senate was a 
very good experience. But working for the 
company will be more beneficial, he added.
Novak remained noncommittal about his 
preference for his successor. Its a secret 
ballot and Im not going to say. But I feel 
that there are two very qualified people for 
the job. They have both been nominated. 
These nominees are Alexandra Kavoulakis, 
Academic Affairs chair, and Senate Vice 
Chair Janelle Malloy.
Center offers new workshops
continued from page 7
worked in career and academic as well as 
personal counseling. Abel came to CMU in 
1966 after receiving his PhD in counseling 
and guidance and has done institutional
research as well as counseling. Grumet, who 
has been here for one year, was an under
graduate at CMU and now teaches in the 
Psychology department in addition to 
directing the center.
Get to the answers faster.
With theTl'55'II.
What you need to tackle the 
higher mathematics of a science 
or engineering curriculum are 
more functionsmore func
tions than a simple slide-rule 
calculator has.
Enter the TI-55-II, with 112 
powerful functions. You can 
work faster and more accurate
ly with theTI-55-II, because its 
preprogrammed to perform 
complex calculationslike de
finite integrals, linear regression
and hyberbolics-at the touch 
of a button. And it can also be 
programmed to do repetitive 
problems without re-entering
the entire formula.
Included is the Calculator 
Decision-Making Sourcebook.
It makes the process of using 
theTI-55-11 even simpler, and 
shows you how to use all the 
power of the calculator.
Get to the answers 
faster. Let a TI-55-11
show you how.
sparofCongiwpCno

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
CMU gets facelift from Physical Plant
Murals on the ceiling erf CFA between the Alumni Concert Hall and Kresge Theatre were restored this summer. The murals depict the 
history of Fine Arts.
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Staffwriter
Some of you had a terrific summer. 
Others had a not-so-terrific summer. 
CMU, on the other hand, had a busy 
summer. Yes, while we were all recuperat
ing from the school year, CMU Physical 
Plant kept busy renovating, restoring, and 
even relocating.
Physical Plant, for instance, is no longer 
- in Porter Hall. Before moving into the 
former Pitt fraternity house (Delta Sigma 
Chi), Physical Plants head Neil Binstock
and his staff are temporarily staying in a 
trailer next door to their new headquarters.
The second and third floors are in very 
rough shape, Binstock said. After the Pitt 
students found out about the move, they did 
a number on the house. Its a real shame. 
Much of the first floors solid wood panel
ing, mahogany furnishings and natural 
wood floors were victims of saws and axes. 
However, Physical Plant is renovating these 
beautiful furnishings, preparing for its 
administration to move in.
Explaining the change, Binstock, a
former CMU student and Assistant Dean of 
GSIA, said, The domino effect sort erf took 
place on campus in terms of occupying 
space. By moving Physical Plant, we pro
vided four or five fifty- to fifty-five-seat class
rooms at the least possible cost. The 
transformed classrooms are nice, clean 
rooms; theyre not extravagant but theyre 
certainly useful.
In addition, Room 5419 in Wean Hall is 
now occupied by Computer Science. Other 
space was made available for Robotics. 
According to Binstock, the room is ideal
because its relatively new; thus cables can be 
run through it for terminal connections.
GSIA is also the recipient of some 
changes. The second and third flows are 
being extended, with each floor expected to 
contain 12 offices. Each floor is 2200 square 
feet and is built atop additions finished in 
1978. The third floor will be used by GSIA; 
the other extension will be used for unde
fined purposes by CMU.
GSIA has been growing, in terms of stu
dent and faculty populations. We wanted to 
build the third floor five years ago but we 
lacked the funds, explained Binstock. Pres
ident Cyert and GSIAs Dean Robert Kaplan 
joined forces to plan the third floor 
renovation.
Work is also underway on the Pauline B. 
Adamson Wing, projected to be an entirely 
underground addition to the Frew Street 
side of Baker Hall. Consequendy, the new 
addition will not stand out like a sore 
thumb. From the outside, all that would be 
visible is a four foot wall.
Since Baker Hall was constructed so long 
ago and originally designed as a factory 
(hence the sloping halls), Binstock said that 
it would be very tough to match the existing 
materials. Thus, the Adamson Wing is 
being built with these restrictions in mind.
When completed in March or April, the 
Wing will consist of an upstairs lounge area 
and a tiered, stepped room downstairs, simliar to the ellipsoidal shape of old lecture 
halls in GSLA. It will seat approximately 115 
to 120 people and by design no one will be 
more than forty feet from the lecturer. Hopefullly, it will enhance communication and 
promote a friendlier atmosphere not usually 
found in larger lecture halls.
The atmosphere in Warner Hall this 
summer was a bit warmer than its inhabit
ants would have liked. The air conditioning 
had malfunctioned early in the summer, 
and on July eigth, the Cut was chopped up 
to attach chilled water lines from Skibo to 
continuod on page 10
Modular units make Morewood dorms spacy
1Y ANNE-MERLE BRYANT
Tartan Staffwriter
Its a long way to the top.
Especially when youre sleeping in one of 
CMUs new custom-made modular units.* Stackable, all-in-one furniture designs 
equipped with a three by seven foot desktop, 
a wall erf shelves and three sets of drawers, a 
loft with a Sealy mattress, ladder, and an 
attached wardrobe.
The twenty-four new units have been 
placed in the B and C towers of Morewood 
Gardens as part of an experimental solution 
to the schools new housing shortage. 
Former double rooms now accommodate 
triples; comer singles have greater floor 
space.
- Whats it like living with a module?
Tony Martin, Director of Housing, 
reports most students using the modular 
units are thrilled with the new furniture. 
The units are classy, quality furnishings. 
Rarely do you find dormitory furniture 
which is crafted of solid wood, which con
tributes significandy to its longevity.
Martin added that the new units are 
expensive, costing in excess erf $1000 per 
person, as compared to approximately $700 
 per student for a conventional suite of dor
mitory furniture.
Of the students available for comment, 
response to the units was, over-all, highly 
favorable.
Mary Avjian, a freshman from Newburg 
Park, California, prizes her own litde 
comer erf the room. She uses the module 
and her two roommates have a traditional 
_ bunk. Accustomed to her own room at
home, Mary jokingly calls herself territor
ial now that she must share a triple.
Actually Ive got a lot more space than 
anyone else in the room, said Mary. 'Ive 
set all my stuff in some nook or cranny; 
everything has a space. Mary is awaiting 
the arrival of her stereo, which she plans to 
keep on the top of her wardrobe.
The module is a place to throw things 
for Phillip Walker, a freshman from Chatta
nooga, Tennesee. His desktop is laden with 
papers, books, albums and a stereo; several 
pairs of headphones dangle from a hook on 
his loft. Phillip has added a beam to his unit 
where he has hung an elaborate chandelier 
made by a roommate.
One Morewood resident, a senior living 
in a single, prefers her units unbolted. She 
explained, I fell in love with the huge desk 
and wanted to keep it separate from the rest 
of the unit. Plus, I didnt like having the rest 
of the room empty when the unit was all in 
one piece. I brought plenty erf shelves and 
crates from home this year, anticipating the 
same old furniture. So now I have ample 
storage space.
Mark Gould, a sophomore from Paramus, New Jersey, and his two roommates 
share the modular unit. One person sleeps 
in the loft; another uses the wardrobe. The 
desk chair and end tables provide a small 
guest area near the entrance to the dorm 
room.
At the beginning of the semester, Mark 
and his roommate, who are both architec
ture students, used the desktop as a drawing 
board while campus studios were being ren
ovated. The large-scale desktop priginally intended as an efficient, desk-height 
surface for a personal computer terminal.
Given the opportunity to improve the 
modules design, Mark would investigate 
the individuals need a bit more. He con
tinued, Personally, I dont like furniture 
that you cant move into different areas of 
the room. Also, the original design should 
have been intended as functional for three 
people, instead erf just one.
Mark added, however, that the modular
unit beats last years furniture.
April Turow, a freshman from Westford, 
Vermont, has conflicting views about her 
new unit When die arrived at CMU several 
weeks ago, the module was not yet 
assembled, as was true for all twenty-four 
new units.
Aprils first reaction was, After owning 
all this way from home, [CMU] could have 
had the furniture ready for me when I got 
continued on pago 11
1M
^

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanSeptember 14, 1982
Turn dock back' McGovern picked over Nixon
By DAN TOBIAS
Tartan Staffwriter
Here I am once again with the second 
installment of the column in which I look 
through the bound volumes of musty old 
Tartans to find events and other items for 
this week in CMU history. Since CMU his
tory spans most all of the 20th century, it is a 
good idea for todays students and staff to get 
a historical perspective. This is the purpose 
of this column. But that doesnt mean that it 
cant be entertaining at times. Youve proba
bly already had enough of dolorous lectures 
in your classes.
10 YEARS AGO: Sept. 19, 1972
The lead article this issue is about how a 
CMU research institute is involved,in the 
controversy over the Skybus project
Skybus, a mass transit system developed 
by the Port Authority of Alleghany County, 
would extend 10.8 miles from the golden 
triangle to South Hills Village. A special 
concrete track, located partly at ground level 
and partly on T-shaped towers, would carry 
small, rubber-tired vehicles. Designed to be 
highly automated, this electrically powered 
system requires no operators in the cars 
themselves. Planners expect to provide ser
vice at three minute intervals, 24 hours a 
day.
The people of Pittsburgh objected to it 
due to the large expense of building a transit 
system that would serve a relatively small 
number of people. Evidendy the systems 
opponents won, as the Skybus was never 
built.
This issue of the Tartan also contains an 
article stating that CMU students who are 
registered to vote favor McGovern over 
Nixon four to one. The American public 
evidently felt differently. Also in this issue is 
an article on a change in the draft classifica
tions. Fewer people would be drafted that 
year, and it was announced that the admin
istration would not ask Congress to con
tinue the draft past June 30, 1973.
15 YEARS AGO: Sept. 13, 1967
This was the first school year after the 
name change from Carnegie Institute of 
Technology  to Camegie-Mellon Univer
sity. One article printed a letter from Mrs. 
Carnegie Miller, Andrew Carnegies daugh
ter, saying in part: Your founder would 
share our pleasure today. He would be glad 
that the honored name of Mellon and all it 
stands for is joined with what he started in 
Pittsburgh many years ago as the Carnegie 
Technical School and the Margaret Morri
son School. An editorial was more cynical, 
stating that we feel that the reasons for the 
name change are mostly financial in nature 
and would like to see a chain of CamegieMellon Banks open up across the city. 
Later in the editorial, however, it is stated 
that The name does recognize the family 
which has been, by and large, supporting 
several departments on campus. But the 
editorial asks that the school carry out the 
implications of university status, by carry
ing on an expansion and improvement of 
curricula and facilities.
75 YEARS AGO: Sept. 18, 1907
The Tartan sure looked different back 
then. The pages were the size of a textbook
address given to the upperclassmen by direc
tor Hamerschlag. Hes the guy who students 
like to rub the nose of on the portrait in 
Baker Hall. He stated, among other things 
that we have reached the state of intellec
tual development where certain kinds of stu
dent initiation are exceedingly detrimental,
to the plebe and other classes as well, and 
frequendy result in the physical impair
ment of individuals. He suggested that 
upperclassmen invite freshmen to a bar
becue instead. He also reported how stu
dents unanimously approved assessing a $2 
activity fee to finance student organizations.
Spots open in GCM major
There are a few openings for freshmen 
and sophomores wishing to enroll in the 
Graphic Communications Management 
program, a technology option in the depart
ment of Administration and Management 
Science. According to Edward W. Evans, 
Head of GCM and Assistant Head, AMS, 
this option features a sequence of nine 
courses covering the science and technology 
of graphic communications as employed in 
the printing, publishing, corporate com
munications and related industries. While 
most students add this option to the AMS 
degree, it may also be incorporated into 
other majors in engineering, science or the 
liberal arts.
Mr. Evans stated that CMU is the perfect 
environment for this technology program 
due to the heavy emphasis on the computer 
as a part of advanced communications sysor encyclopedia page, rather than the pres- .ipms. We already have one of the nations
ent larger tabloid size. The cover bore the 
price of ten cents, making the Tartan one of 
the few things that has gone down in price 
since 1907, a 100% decline actually, to 
nothing! If Reagan could put it in the Con
sumer Price Index, the economy might seem 
much healthier.
On the front page (actually page 3, since 
page 1 is taken up by a cover page more like 
a magazine than a newspaper), a couple of 
differences are immediately apparent: Pitts
burgh is spelled without the H on the end, 
and football is headlined in two words, as 
Foot Ball. The lead article describes an
most sophisticated computer communica
tions networks in place on our campus, and 
the plans for the computerized campus of 
the future are even more pertinent to the
GCM education, he contended. Ourclass
room and lab activities on campus, plus the 
exposure to the latest production technol
ogy at the neighboring Graphic Arts Tech
nical Foundation provide an ideal 
combination.
Job opportunities for graduates are excep
tionally strong, stated Evans. During the 
past year, the GCM program had one of the 
highest ratios of recruiters per senior of any
The one care package that's two-semesters long.
It's here. A care package that 
doesn't leave a mess, is great for 
your teeth and lasts for the whole 
school year. It's a brand name 
19" color TV from Rentacolor  
specially student priced at $5.29 a 
week when you rent this month.
With Rentacolor's low prices, you'll 
still have plenty of "beer" money. 
After a one-time $25 installation 
fee, our special two-semester rates 
are just $5.29 a week 
($22.95 a month orremtucolar|7AEO CENTEM
He make the good things affordable.
$206.55 for a simple 9-month 
lease). Split it with your roommate 
and double your savings. There's 
no down payment or security 
deposit, never a charge for in-dorm 
service or repairs. And no option to 
buy because after tuition, who has 
an extra $500? So call Rentacolor. 
And get the one care package 
that'll never go stale.
You'll want to check out our 
student specials on VCRs, too.
Serving the Greater Metropolitan Area 
275 Curry Hollow Rd.
RR, Pittsburgh, PA 15236 
(412) 655-8770/527-3591
major on campus, with some seniors having 
as many as nine or ten plant trips. This is 
not too surprising considering the tremend
ous change which has taken place in the 
printing and publishing industries and the 
need of the leading firms to respond to those 
changes. We expect even higher ratios as 
more companies become aware of the uni
que business and technology background of 
the GCM graduates.
Ideally, students should enroll in the 
GCM program in the fall semester of the 
freshman year, due to the fit of course 
sequences. The GCM program is a third 
track in the AMS curriculum, Engineering 
and Science and H&SS being the other two. 
However, sophomores from either track 
have very few problems in fitting the GCM 
courses into their schedule. Students wish
ing more information should contact Mr. 
Evans in GSIA Room 203 or phone exten
sion 2313.
Summer projects lift 
school's environment
continued from pap
the Flash Cube. Cool air again permeated 
the halls of Warner and the Cut received a 
new toupee.
The sod needs at least ninety days to take ^ 
hold, explained Binstock. It will get 
totally eaten up if students start playing frisbee and football. Id like to keep it roped off 
for another thirty or forty days.
On the other side of the Cut, the tennis 
courts were resurfaced, and according to 
Binstock, a water fountain may be installed 
in the near future between the courts and 
Margaret Morrison.
If Margaret Morrison Halls rotunda 
looks bright, youre not imagining any
thing. Partially sandblasted and chemically 
treated this summer, it was restored to pre
pollution brilliance.
Along the same lines, the first floor of the 
Fine Arts building had a lovely facelift. It 
hasnt been cleaned since it was designed in 
1920 by Henry Hombostel, the master archi
tect of CMUs old buildings: Baker, Porter, 
Doherty, Maragaret Morrison, and CFA.
The idea, according to the Dean of Fine 
Arts Akram Midani, was to create a learn
ing instrument where students could leam 
about the arts as they walked through the 
building.
continued on pege 11
MSGYN 
rCHECK-UPS
ABORTION
SERVICES
FREE
PREGNANCY TESTS
CONFIDENTIAL 
COUNSELING
Women's 
Health 
Services
625 STANWIX ST 
DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
(412) 5621900

---------------------------------------------------

September 14, 1982The TartanPage 11
CMU's facelifted
Its never too soon ...
to buy your 1983 yearbook
 SENIOR portraits will be taken between Sept. 27 and Oct. 1. Sign up now near Skibo Information Desk.
 There's no time like the present to buy your yearbook. For more information visit us in Skibo 46A.
 We accept ail candid phtcs!
 Once again, welcome back and have a great yeari
The staff of The Thistle, CMU's outstanding yearbook, would like to take this 
oppportunity to welcome all returning students and especially freshmen.
photo by Gene Yonish
Work progresses on the Pauline B. Adamson wing addition to Baker Hall. The addition, a 
lecture hall, is slated for completion in early April.
continued from page 10
The murals signified a synopsis of his
tory of fine arts through pictorial examples 
of major monuments of architecture and 
portraits of major artists. Depicting names, 
dates and places is a fun thing to do. I find 
that students waiting for classes do just 
that, said Midani,
The paintings were in very bad shape, 
twelve of the canvas murals sat in Dr. Midanis office all last year. A serious moisture 
problem was eradicated,, and the canvases 
were returned to their proper niches.
A lot of dirt accumulates over 60 years, 
said Midani. The situation was aggravated 
when the outside walls were sandblasted. 
We hired a private contractor to clean and 
touch up the ceilings and murals. They used 
a special detergent which was not waterbased because of previuos seepage problems. 
It took two and a halve to three months to 
complete because it must be done comer to 
comer. You cant simply use a big vacuum 
cleaner.
Morewood Gardens was also rennovated 
this summer. In the first of a three-phase 
project, C and D towers were connected in 
order to double the paths of egress [to four 
per tower-pair] in case of a fire, said Tony 
Martin, Director of Housing. As a continua
tion of last summers project, A and B towers 
received the same attention. The third phase 
will be completed when B and C towers are 
joined.
When Morewood was built, it met fire 
standards, but as legal requirements change, 
so does the building complex. According to 
Martin, work was also done on Morewoods 
plumbing, heating, lighting, and general 
aesthetics. Space was also modified to pro
vide more semi-private bathrooms. In A and 
D towers, lounges will be transformed into
bedrooms; while B and C will have common 
lounges.
Ending on an optimistic note, Martin 
happily reported that all forty freshmen, 
who, at the beginning of the year had occu
pied lounges, have been assigned to spaces. 
He says, As of today, there is no housing 
shortage. The waiting list is all taken care 
of.Mods are in Morewood
continued from page 9
here. I would have preferred the traditional 
furniture anyway, because its a lot more like 
home.
Now that the loft is fully built and April 
has had the ume to settle into dorm life, shes 
happier with the modular unit. Most 
importantly, I like that the unit is all to 
myself. Ive got my own place.
Early next winter, the Housing Office 
plans to evaluate more fully how the More
wood residents feel about their novel living 
arrangements. Housing invites student 
comments and hopes to arrange for resi
dent tours of rooms housing modular units.
Marcelle's Typing Service
Specializes in Word 
Processing
ThesesManuscriptsResearch/term 
papersresumes/repetitive letters 
(TurabianAPAMLA strongly observed)
Fast Efficient Reasonable 
Call Ms. West 371-3657 
(24 hour service)
10% discount with coupon

---------------------------------------------------

t
GULFENERGYCREATING-ENERGY
WERE TAPPING NEW ENERGY 
SOURCES TCMU.
W
ere Gulf Oil Corporation. And well 'ss8$SFr be on campus to look for something very much in demand these days. New energy. Specifically, new human energy.
The fast-changing energy field will continue to be one of the most exciting and rewarding places to launch a career. Into the eighties, and beyond. And Gulf has exceptional opportunities for new people with new ideas about solving energy problems.Sign up for an appointment now at your placement office. And pick up some Gulf literature for~background information. Because this year promises to be a great year for new energy. And we cant think of a better piace to look thafi here.DATE: OCTOBER 26EE, Physics & Comp. Sd. Majors
For a lS*"x20fc"color poster of this illustration, please send your request to: Poster. College Relations. P.O. Box 1166. Pittsburgh. PA 15230. Gulf Oil Corr^ration ^ Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

September 14, 1982The TartanPage 13
TheCMU 
Martial Art Club
Learn the ultimate expression of bodily freedom.
First meeting of the year: 
Regular classes:
7 p.m. Wed., Sept. 15 
Thistle Hall, Gym 
Mon. 8:00-9:30 
Wed. 7:00-8:30 
Thistle Hall, Gym
Funded by the actnities fee.
Ten-hut1 Computees
First put your legs like this, then gravity takes over, and ... whoops! Friday, Shady Skates, through AB Lectures and Special Events, 
provided the wheels and CMU people supplied the momentum.
The Decsystem-20 TOPS Operating sys
tem is not stupid, but it is often dumb. The 
distinction: it can do a lot for you, but you 
have to know how to ask it to. Sitting at a 
terminal waiting for a file to print so you 
can delete it and log-off is ridiculous. Des
troying hours of work by entering the 
wrong file-name in SCRIBE is even sillier. 
Dont let these things happen to you! Read 
this column! Clip and save them, collect 
them, trade them with friends!
There are definitely tricks to learn when
using the computer, any computer, but the 
most important thing to remember is to feel 
free to play. Type in ? and see what happens. 
Type in a word and then a ?. Try anything,, 
everything, the TOPS system is designed to 
be user-friendly, that is, helpful. There are 
even HELP files you can read on the screen 
(unfortunately, they are not always that 
helpful, but then, this column may not 
always be so helpful either).
This is the introductory column so no 
lesson today, but next week... Questions for
publication or individual response are wel
come. Either send them to The Tartan or 
AClHcffi TOPSD or TOPSB. Keep this in 
mind: What you get out erf the computer is 
only as good as what you put in (Garbage 
in, garbage out theory) and you know damn 
well where this was written.
Alex Czajkowski is a senior majoring in 
technical/professional writing and is a 
columnist for The Tartan.
While cleaning a classroom in Wean 
Hall, compsci worker bees (commonly 
called clones) discovered a pre-Westinghouse DecWriter. Though not linked in 
any visually verifiable manner to DecSystem, the dynamic DecWriter shook, rattled 
and spit this column out. -
Will the DecWriter type again? The 
clones hope so. We hope so. Tune in next 
week for the results of the fertility festival 
now underway in the basement of Wean 
Hall.
By ALEX CZAJKOWSKI
Tartan Staffwriter
If you have to live with it, face it, work 
with it, you might as well be as fully pre
pared as possible for the problems itll give 
you, the short-cuts available and the things 
^ that it seems everybody knows 
about except you.
^ Ostensibly, were referring to
the Decsystem-20, of course. Any 
allusion to the Administration or Warner 
Hall would be irrelevant, right? This is a 
column about getting the most from your 
computer, anything else it covers is 
incidental.
This is NOT a hackers column; if it 
were, itd be on a BOARD on the system 
somewhere, not in The Tartan. Nor is it a 
programming column; although it might 
make programming a little more timeefficient.
It is a column for those of you who HAVE 
to do something on the computer, but dont 
want to. Or want to do something on the 
computer, but dont know what. It will also 
be a compendium of weekly, campus 
computernews covering things like 
wheres TOPS-F? and When will I get 
my own personal computer?
photo by Rowshanak Hashemiyoon

---------------------------------------------------

AB Concerts presents:
GANG OF FOUR
funded by activities fee
Tickets available at Sk?bo information desk and
Jims Records starting tomorrow St noon.
with special guest Easter Island
Wednesday, September 29, 1982 _______________________
8 PM Skibo Ballroom
General Admission Tickets 
_____________________________ $8 public, $6 w/CMU ID

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
Trek into the unknown. . .In search of AB concerts
ABs Time Machine party gathered lots of folks  from pirates to punkers  last Friday. 
The dance was held in the Skibo Ballroom.
AB party is great "Time
By RAMONA WALLS
Tartan Staffwriter
So what did you do Friday night?
Oh, I went to a party.
Sound familiar? For many CMU students 
it probably does, particularly last Friday 
night when AB threw its Time Machine 
Party.
*
The partys theme, Time Machine, asked 
students to dress for their favorite era. There 
were several swashbuckling pirates, an oldtime shepherd, some medieval looking out
fits, and a few other costumes, but it 
appeared that most of the students favorite 
era was our own decade, the eighties.
The party was held in the Skibo Bal
lroom, Highlander Room, and Wherret 
Room, with some people spilling over out
side the Ballroom. Tables and refreshments 
were provided in the Highlander Room.
In the Ballroom, music was provided by
Show planned
Good news, patriots! Gang of Fours 
long-awaited Songs of the Free tour will 
invade the Home of the Brave! The innova
tive Britons will include CMUs Skibo Bal
lroom in their US tour.
The Wednesday evening concert will fea
ture an open dance floor atmosphere.
Opening for Gang of Four will be Easter 
Island, a local hand from Coraopolis. 
Tickets will go on sale tomorrow, Sep
tember 15, at the Skibo Information Desk 
starting at noon. Prices are |6 for CMU 
students and $8 for all others. Tickets will 
also be on sale at Jims Records, located on 
Liberty Avenue in Bloomfield.
two bands: Risque and Church Street. The 
bands played pop-style music with danceable tunes while the students packed the 
dance floor and got down.
The movie The Time Machine was 
shown in the Wherret Room at 9:30, and at 
11:30 a hypnosis show was put on. Hypno
tist Dick Hazley and twelve student volun
teers put on a very amusing and interesting 
show for those watching and participating.
The number of people at the party shows 
that it was certainly a good time and wellplanned, good enough to keep the people 
partying until the wee hours of the 
morning.
By BEPKLEY SCHROEDER
Special for the Tartan
Mint is a strange and convoluted tale. I 
strolled into the WRCT studios last week 
and found an urgent message, conspicu
ously left in a typewriter, stuffed into my 
mailbox. It read:
Dear Mr. Schroeder,
We need your assistance in 
attaining an interview with the 
chairman of the Activities Board 
Concert Committee. We have 
already arranged for your pass
port and round-trip ticket to 
Nepal. Please contact us as soon 
as possible.
The Tartan Editorial Staff
Well, it might be normal for the navy to 
offer exotic travel, but this was not routine 
procedure for the Tartan. Intrigued, I 
walked immediately over to the editors 
office avid requested details.
Thanks for coming, Berkley. Weve 
requested your help because on your radio 
show you seem to have a direct line to the 
Concert Executive Council. As you know, 
the new concert chairman has been very 
mysterious about his whereabouts. Hardly 
anyone has ever seen him and no person 
living knows how to spell or pronounce his 
last name. Thats why when we got an ano
nymous phone call that the chairman and 
his executive council wanted to give a State 
of the Committee address, we jumped on it.
I was flattered and too proud to tell them 
that my direct line was nothing more than a
nameless phonecall every other week; I had 
never seen the elusive chairman, either. Still, 
I accepted.
Upon arrival at the Nepal International 
Airport I was immediately greeted by a tall, 
thin native who introduced himself as my 
guide. He said he would lead me to the edge 
of an uncharted region in the Himalayas 
and that from there the executive council 
had laid a trail for me to follow. We took a 
cab across town and began trudging up the 
snowy terrain.
We climbed for six days. Suddenly my 
guide stopped; his face white with fear.
There, he pointed with a shaky finger. 
There are the evil lands. I go no further.
Before I had a chance to ask him where 
the trail was he had scurried down the 
mountain out of sight. Panic set in. I was all 
alone, 17,500 feet above sea level in a cold 
white wasteland. Luckily, out of the comer 
erf my eye, I noticed some kind of marking in 
the snow. I moved slowly forward. There it 
was! The trail! A yellow line in the snow 
that stretched up the mountain. I followed.
An hour later I was at the entrance of a 
large cave. A sign hanging above the open
ing read: ABConcerts Executive Council  
Please leave name with secretary. As I 
stepped inside, a muscular Asian, almost 
eight feet tall and wrapped in animal skins, 
handed me a note and a piece erf black cloth. 
The note said to put on the blindfold and 
Haji would lead me to the council 
chambers.
We walked for about an hour. I lost all 
continued on page 19
McDonald solo album good but uneven
By L.G. TROVATO
Tartan Staffwriter
Probably no one has influenced the sound 
of 80s pop music more than Michael McDo
nald. Lead singer and principle composer 
for The Doobie Brothers, one of the most 
. successful bands to emerge from 
California in the 70s, McDojjj* nald wrote and sang most of 
their recent hits, including 
Takin It To The Streets, One Step 
Closer, and What A Fool Believes.
After the monster success of the album 
Minute By Minute in 1978, he became one 
of L.A.s most sought-after backup singers, 
with credits on the albums of Rickie Lee 
Jones, Nicolette Larson, Christopher Cross, 
Jimmy Webb, and Kenny Loggins. His 
pop-funk vocal and compositional styles 
have influenced many other artists as well.
At the end erf this summer, The Doobie 
Brothers will formally disband, and Michael
McDonald is now free to embark upon the 
solo career that everyone who follows his 
music has been waiting for. And not in vain.
His first solo effort, If Thats What It 
Takes, (Warner Bros.) recorded off and on 
over the last two years, contains all that 
Doobie fans have come to expect in him: 
sophisticated, funky keyboard syncopation, 
heart-felt lyrics, and a voice like a tiger eat
ing fudge - powerful, soaring, yearning, 
semi-sweet.
McDonald has always been a romantic, 
and his lyrics also have been romantic. This 
album is no exception. While his words may 
not be socially redeeming, he seems to know 
a lot about the ups and downs erf love, and 
he is able to combine a touching lyric with 
an almost carefree beat, and still make it 
work.
The ten original tunes in If Thats What 
It Takes (some in collaboration with 
Jackie DeShannon, Kenny Loggins/ and
others) all have concise structures, a certain 
bouncy momentum, and a catchy melodic 
line.
Yet while his singing is excellent 
through-out, the album as a whole is 
uneven. Only one tune, I Keep Forgettin, 
is on the same level as his best work with the 
Doobies. His signature keyboard style runs 
through many erf the tracks, but he manages 
to break away from it on two beautiful 
songs, I Can Let It Go Now, and Losin 
End, which is actually a reworking of an 
older McDonald song into a ballad.
Though McDonald seems to write from 
the heart, there is something missing from 
this album. One could half expect a song 
about his life as a Doobie Brother, or about 
some of that bands members, but McDo
nald sticks to what he thinks is the tried and 
true formula. His perfectionism is apparent 
everywhere, and the album is remarkable for 
continued on page 17
New staff, look for Forbes St. Gallery
By JOHN CANTINE
Tartan Assistant Entertainment Editor
The Forbes Street Gallery begins a new 
year with a new staff, a new look, and a new 
commitment to becoming part erf the Pitts
burgh community. The staff, selected by last 
years staff, along with Dean Cox of Student 
Affairs and Orville Winsand, head of 
CMUs art department, consists of four 
seniors.
f Neil Winkel, the director erf the gallery, is 
pursuing a self-defined major in graphic 
and fine arts. Though he left AMS because 
the focus was too industrial for him, he 
intends to use the knowledge gained there 
on his new job. Im applying my business 
skills to the management of the gallery. 
Julie McCoy, a senior an major, is the 
gallerys Administrative Assistant. Together 
with their two staff members, Winkel and
* McCoy are responsible for the week-to-week
running of the gallery: planning and sche
duling shows, taking care of contracts and 
insurance, hanging the shows, supervising 
openings, hiring attendants, and deciding 
the rights and obligations of the artists.
Their general aim, according to McCoy, 
is "to make this as professional an expe
rience as possible for the artists.
Anita Miller, the gallerys business man
ager, is a big pan erf that professional expe
rience, since all purchases are made through 
her. Miller, a senior art major who has stu
died in London and Florence, believes that 
the Forbes Street has the potential to be a 
good sales gallery, and notes that last year 
was the gallerys best year for sales. With 
better public relations, she hopes to make 
this year even better.
Public Relations is the job of Sarah Ratchye, another senior art student. Ratchye is a 
transfer student from Stanford. She says that
she took the job because she is interested in 
art history and criticism.
Ratchye believes that exposure to art is an 
important part of a persons education. 
With that philosophy in mind, the new 
Public Relations program is trying to 
expose the Forbes Street Gallery and its 
artists to buyers, dealers, and art lovers 
within the CMU community and through
out the city of Pittsburgh.
To achieve that goal, the gallery will pub
licize its events on radio, in Pittsburgh Mag
azine, and through other galleries. CMU 
has a good art department, Ratchye says, 
but only the artists know it. This year, she 
hopes to inform the public, too.
As anyone whos seen it can testify, the 
best public relations move the Forbes Street 
Gallery could have made was to renovate the 
building itself  exactly what is being done.
continued on page 19NeU Winkel

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanSeptember 14, 1982
Cast makes "Officer" forceful film
By SUSAN BOSSI
Tartan Staffwriter
A small American child is seen walking 
through what seems to be a Korean village. 
Ignoring the taunts and bedconings of the 
villagers, the boy seems to have some 
destination.
Quite so  he soon enters a 
room in which a man and two 
Geisha girls are living. This 
man turns out to be the childs father (the 
childs father  who deserted his wife and 
son many years ago.)
Suddenly the film flashes ahead to the 
present. Once again, Zack Mayo (now about 
fifteen years older) is found in a somewhat 
dumpy bedroom looking down on his 
father and yet another woman.
Naturally, Zack must have some purpose 
for this interruption. What he wants to tell 
his father is simple  he is joining the navy 
to fly planes. As a result, his father is the first 
of many to say, Zack, youll never become 
an officer.
Zack, portrayed by Richard Gere, now 
enters his training under the command of 
Foley (Louis Gossett Jr.) Foley is a hardnosed, determined man who has one basic 
intention  to filter out his recruits that 
have the strength and determination to 
become officers from those who dont quite 
have it in them.
Shortly after his enlistment, Zack 
accomplishes three things  he finds a 
good friend, he starts to date Paula Pokrifki 
(Debra Winger), and he sets up his own 
business (selling polished boots, belt 
buckles, etc ... to anyone who is too lazy to 
do it himself.)
Unfortunately for Zack, his newly formed 
enterprise is soon discovered by none 
other than Foley himself.
As a result erf Zacks misfortune, he has to 
spend a weekend on assignment to Foley. By 
Sunday, as Zack struggles to do his one 
hundred and ninety-ninth sit-up amidst 
Foleys scorn, Zack shouts, Im not going to 
quit I cant. I dont have anywhere else to 
go. This exclamation clearly explains 
Zacks conjecture. He has always been a 
loner and for once, he has to become 
somebody.
The film continues as Zack fights to 
survive basic training. As he does this, Paula 
Pokrifki becomes a stabilizing force in his 
life. Paula becomes his closest friend as 
Foley becomes his enemy. At the climactic 
point in the movie, their struggle reaches a 
one-on-one confrontation.
Richard Geres performance as Zack is 
tremendous. His role is a difficult one to 
adopt, but he does so with skill. Debra
Winger, last seen starring with John 
Travolta in Urban Cowboy, plays a similar 
character in An Officer and a Gentleman. 
Although she doesnt seem as forceful in this 
filrri Wingers expression is effective.
Now we come to the most captivating 
performance of the movie, that of Louis 
Gossett Jr. He fills the boots of a cold, 
determined officer with sensational ability. 
His character, Foley, is somewhat crude but 
extremely believable. In addition, he adds 
comic relief to the tension-filled portions of 
the film.
Although the plot is terribly predictable, 
the intensity of the performers transforms 
An Officer and a Gentleman into something 
more than just a love story. Hiding 
underneath its romantic surface exists a 
battle  a batde for life, for love, and for selfrespect.
The Clash - new wave poetry?
By KATY BONELLO
Tartan Staffwriter
This is a public service announcementwith guitar! - Know Your Rights.
The first two lines of Know Your 
Rights tell what Combat Rock by The 
Clash is all about. To put it 
t quite simply, The Clash spedaliT izes in social messages set to ter*
~ rific music.
As I was listening to Know Your 
Rights a friend was typing a paper. I 
noticed a funny thing happening. As she 
typed she followed the rhythm of the song. 
And it didnt happen with just one song! 
The entire album has a beat that grabs you 
and makes you feel like dancing, and we 
aint talking disco dance here.
Should I Stay or Should I Go? and 
Rock the Casbah are the most noticeable 
catchy songs. This, and the fact that their 
lyrics are a litde bit more superficial than 
those of most Clash songs has made them 
the popular songs on the album.
However, with Combat Rock it is useless 
to speak merely of "catchy tunes and popu
larity. It is an album with much more to 
offer. Each song speaks of the combat pres
ent in modem life. From the animosity of 
"Straight to Hell to the dehumanization of 
"Overpowered by Funk the album abso
lutely reeks with significance.
Another distinctive quality about The 
Clash is their lyrics. They play with words, 
sounds, and rhythms, the result becoming a
photo by Rowshanak Hoahemiyoon
Some CMU students found an entertaining 
way to amuse their friends at a recent Mudge 
party. They are: (from top to bottom) Julie 
Herman, Lee Ross, and Elysa Rose.
kind of new-wave poetry. Lines like Do the 
worm on metropolis/ Slamdance cosmopolis/ Enlighten the populace in "Ghetto 
Defendant and mind crazed banjo on the 
druggy-drag ragtime U.S.A. leave the aver
age listener (me!) wondering how they do it. 
And the lyrics are on the jacket! The reason 
for the lyrics appearance is that theyre the 
only group with lyrics worth reading. 
Sure, Combat Rock has its drawbacks. InS  *
places it becomes a litde too eerie and at 
times the revolutionary segments are fright
eningly intense. However, this is an album 
that should be experienced (not just listened 
to) by as many people as possible.
Scotch N Soda
AUDITIONS
Saturday, September 18 Noon, Skibo Room 11Prepare two songs  one fast, one slow Accompanist will be provided
FUNDED BY ACTIVITIES FEE

---------------------------------------------------

September 14, 1982The TartanPage 17
1/Road Warrior"  high speed blood & guts
By JOSEPH NARDONE
Tartan Staffumter
The scenario: World War III is a disaster 
which has happened some fifteen years ago. 
Civilizations which once populated our 
planet are now disolved. Governments have
 ceased to exist, along with a 
. large portion of the governed.
^ The vast oil reserves and refineries which powered our nations 
have either been destroyed or left to decay. 
Man has regressed into a nomadic warrior 
who must steal to survive.
Only the mobile individual will be able to 
outrun his enemies while looking for food 
and fuel.
Fuel is the major item on the shopping 
list for these marauders; without it they no 
longer can scour the deserts for civilized 
^holdouts from which to steal. Driving 
deserted highways at insane speeds these 
captains of the roadways wage war continu
ally against each other and themselves.
That is the theme for a late summer movie 
entided Road Warrior. The movie a low 
budget flick packed with more violence than 
an M-l tank, has many bright spots which 
make for interesting-though-crass viewing.
Auto fans, who love to see high-speed 
chase scenes and creative ways to die, will 
find every scene informative. For example, 
different varieties of light weaponry, from 
crossbows to rapid fire blowpipes, are all easily 
installed on any late model sedan. Naturally 
the proper clothing, old football pads, loin 
cloths, and of course, a goalies mask for 
head protection in the inevitable pile-up. Of 
course this movie displays the latest in driv
ing manners: Hit him before he hits you.
Personally, all these techniques were 
well-noted for use if one is confronted with a 
similar situation. My date, however, found 
fno educational value in the proper methods
of siphoning gas from someone elses car 
into your own. Shockingly, by the third fiery 
crash, she had nodded off to sleep? only to 
awaken in time to leave.
That is to say, if you enjoy good stunts 
and you dont really care about the develop
ment of characters this movie is yours. Still, I 
dont mean to sell the plot or acting short.
The plot is solid and makes every crash a 
necessity. There is no stunt which occured 
simply because it looked good. Each wreck 
had a place in the story and didnt insult my
intelligence by running hundreds of auto
mobiles in a single chase scene.
The acting was adequate though the parts 
werent that difficult. Anyone who played 
defensive end for the Green Bay Packers 
continued on page 20
Improved Squier still impressive
/
By LESLEY BUNKER
Tartan Staffumter
Often, when a musician or group produ
ces a hit album, they retain the same theme 
in their next LP under the assumption if the 
public liked it once, theyll like it again.
However, repeating a style 
offers little room for musical 
growth and expansion; there
fore, the new material often 
sounds stale and trite. Only rarely does a 
performer manage to combine the elements 
responsible for his past success with enough 
innovation to create a truly outstanding 
album. In Emotions in Motion, Billy 
Squier has succeeded.
Keeping the in-studio-yet-live sound of 
Dont Say No, Squier evinces his talents as. 
a singer, songwriter, and musician in the
McDonald solo
continued from page 15
its attention to detail.
Every note, every chord, every percussive 
element is neatly placed in every neady per
formed song. One would really like to hear 
McDonald cut loose, perhaps with just his 
own piano backing him up, but the fine and 
finally too obvious craftsmanship always 
prevails. Yet every phrase is honest and 
richly soulful, and with this solid and fulfil
ling debut, Michael McDonald proves that 
his is the pop voice for the 80s.
varied tracks of Emotions.
Pop hit Everybody Wants You ade
quately sets the tone with its upbeat tempo 
and typically thoughtful lyrics. The highly 
rythmic title track exhibits the greatest area 
of improvement  vocals.
Squier himself had said his voice was his 
weakest area and obviously took steps to 
refine it. The most notable change of pace 
song is In Your Eyes, Squiers own style of
love song, and a beautiful tribute at that.
Overall, Emotions is a very impressive 
album with an assortment of tracks and an 
exposition of a large range of Squiers 
talents.
He retains the unique live sound of his 
preceding LP and adds fresh lyrics and an 
upgraded voice to produce a satisfying 
record that should not only please old fans, 
but create a few new ones as well.
THE HOUSING OFFICE 
IS UPDATING ITS 
WAITING LISTS 
FOR ON-CAMPUS HOUSING
Any student who is interested in a room on campus 
should stop by the Housing Office to complete a.new 
waiting list application.
 Since all incoming freshmen who applied for housing 
have been accomodated, space is now available for other 
stLlents interested in University Housing. It is likely that 
every student on a current waiting list will be offered 
housing during the course of this semester.

---------------------------------------------------

AB Lectures and Special Events 
is proud to present
"An Evening with Gene Roddenberry"
Creator and Producer of Star Trek
Wednesday, September 22 
7:30 p.m. Skibo Ballroom
Tickets on sale Thursday, September 16, 
at noon at the Skibo Information Desk
Students $1 W/CMU ID 
Faculty and Staff $2 W/CMU ID 
Only one ticket per CMU ID
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

September 14, 1982The TartenPage 19
Forbes St. Gallery moving in new directions
continued from page 15
Over the past few years, the gallerys repu
tation has been slowly declining, and the 
building was the main reason. As Winkel 
says, The Gallery wasnt inviting. People 
didnt even want to walk past it Now it will 
be open and inviting.
* Under Architect Doug Philp and Project 
Co-ordinator Dan Heller, erf Physical Plant, 
many needed renovations are taking place. 
The floor, which was slowly sinking, has 
been replaced and reinforced. The heating 
has been repaired, the entranceway has been 
ripped out and rebuilt, and the whole inside 
has been repainted.
We dealt with every level of the adminis
tration, Winkel says,and the University 
was very generous. President Cyert was espe
cially helpful and co-operative. He was 
-behind us all the way.
With essentially a new building, the staff 
is planning many new events. This year 
well have everything, Winkel says  art, 
design, architecture, even video art Also, in
addition to the yearly juried art show, the 
Forbes Street will hold juried design, photo
graphy, and architecture shows.
The first of the special events will be an
Alumni show opening September 28. We 
are planning on some big names, Winkel 
says, but he could offer no details.
These shows are just one part erf the
Forbes Street Gallery, which, as Sarah 
Ratchye sees it should expose artists to the 
community, and the community to the 
artists.
Journey to the center of AB Concerts
continued from page 15
sense of direction. Finally, Haji stopped 
with a grunt. I heard a deep voice say, You 
may remove your blindfold, Mr. Schroeder.
It didnt take long for my eyes to adjust to 
the dimly lit chamber. A fire in the center 
cast flickering shadows on the stone walls. 
There in front of me were seated three robed 
figures, faceless in the dark. The one in the 
center sat on a marble pedestal, raising him
self slightly higher than the other two. 
Obviously I was facing the infamous chair
man and his executive council. Haji made a 
ceremonial bow towards them and 
disappeared.
Well, Mr. Schroeder. So glad you could 
come.
"My pleasure, your excellency. What is it 
that you wish to tell the students? I am ready 
to report.
Very good. First, you will tell all the old 
concert committee members who wish to 
remain on the committee to leave their 
names and new phone numbers for Bob 
Shrkekngtos
Excuse me, oh exalted one, but how do 
you spell your last name?
S-c-h-r-e-c-e-n-g-o-s-t. Tell them to leave 
their new numbers for Bob Schrecengost at 
the Skibo Information Desk. Then there is 
one other important matter. Prices. 
Ticket prices?
Yes. Because of certain conditions ticket 
prices are going to be raised slighdy,
SNS sets "Fantasticks" auditions
Scotch N Soda, the drama club erf CMU, 
is currendy gearing up for their first 
production erf the season, the off-Broadway 
success, The Fantasticks.
The show, currendy entering its twentythird consecutive year in New York, will be 
presented by SNS the first weekend in 
November in the Skibo Ballroom. 
Auditions for the show are this Saturday, 
September 18, at noon in Skibo Room 11.
Casting for The Fantasticks includes six 
men and two women. Auditionees are to 
prepare two songs, one fast and one slow.
Readings will be from the show.
Also planned for this season are the 
premieres erf two original one-act dramas. 
The shows, The Bible Calls It Fornication 
by Alice Alfonsi and Ouija by Gregg 
Bossier, will be presented mid-semester.
Auditions for these two shows will be 
held next Saturday, September 25, at noon 
in Skibo Room 11. A one-minute 
memorized monologue is required. Casting 
for the one-acts includes two men/one 
woman and three men/three women, 
respectively.
Director and crew call for the three shows 
above will be held this Thursday, September 
16, at 7 p.m. in Skibo Room 13. Directing 
candidates should bring a short resume.
The other major project in the works is a 
Shakespeare marathon for Homecoming 
weekend, when both alumni and present 
students can get together to read the works of 
the Bard.
Scotch N Soda will hold a club meeting 
tomorrow, September 15, at 7 p.m. in Skibo 
Room 13 for all new members and anyone 
else interested.
although theyll still be 50% less than a regu
lar off-campus concert. This year we also 
want to increase the number erf shows to 
seven or eight.
Is that the reason for the price hike? 
The official reason is that our budget has 
not increased with the cost of the per
formers, and we havent increased ticket pri
ces in two years. Of course, this new place of 
residence is also responsible for the increase 
but try not to mention that. If you do, just 
say that it snows a lot and our gas bills are 
enormous.
Very good. What else?
That is all. He clapped his hands and 
Haji reappeared. I looked down at my scribblings in horror.
But, your excellency, I have only two 
paragraphs of information at the most. 
How am I going to justify my trip here to 
the student body with only a two paragraph 
story? There must be something else you can 
tell me. How about another rumor?
He shook his head. No, my son. We will 
call you when the time is right Please put 
on the blindfold. Haji will show you out. 
Before I could object the muscular Asian 
pushed me out erf the chamber. I cried out 
one more time, "But Mr. Chairman. I have 
only two paragraphs of print, here!
As I stumbled into the dark I heard his 
voice call after me, Youre a creative indi
vidual, Mr. Schroeder. Im sure youll think 
erf something to fill in the pages with.
Great Moments in the history of hoir
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech, a 
Stone Age plumber, discovers a 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
drain on a routine aqueduct re
pair job. He calls the substance 
hair
But we always thought this 
stuff was feathers, insists Kneg, 
his helper.
"Dummy", counters Blech. "If 
this was feathers, we'd be able to
fly like those pteradactyls".
With the discovery of hair, pluck
ing salons disappear. Philoso
phers have something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with. No 
appointments required. For gals 
and guys.
PRECISION
HAIRCUT COLOR
(ANY LENGTH)
$12.00
(WASH-CUT-BLOW STYLE)
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES 
" $25.00
NO
APPOINTMENT
Mon., Tues., Wed. 10-7 
Thurs., Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
ovcenmoRS
PRECSON HAFCUTTERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
687-3500 Oakland Post Office
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON '
IS THIS ANY TIME TO THINK ABOUT ARMY ROTC?
Its the perfect time.
You re a freshman, right? And you want 
to make college a real learning experience? 
Well. ROTC can add a valuable 
dimension to your college education. A 
dimension of leadership and manage
ment training. And thatll make your 
degree worth more.
ROTC offers scholarship and 
financial opportunities, too.
Plus, the opportunity to graduate 
with a commission and 
begin your future as an 
officer.
For more informatier, contact your 
Professor of Military 
Science.ROTC. BEALLYOUCANBE.
For Information 
Contact 
Michael Schulte, 
CPT
Dept, of Military Sci. 
Second Basement. B7 
Margaret Morrison 
578-2205 2196

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanSeptember 14, 1982
President Cyert's proposed alcohol policy
The use of alcohol on campus is an area 
erf increasing concern. I want to ask you to 
think carefully about the use of alcohol and 
in addition I want to specify some general 
concepts and additional guidelines.
From a legal standpoint, Pennsylvania 
law prohibits the sale or serving of alcoholic 
beverages to persons of less than 21 years of 
age. The university in this area as in all 
other areas is committed to compliance with
the law. No faculty member of the university 
or administrator should sponsor or partici
pate in an official university event (one that 
involves the use of university property or 
funds) at which alcoholic beverages are 
served to persons who are not 21 years of age. 
This principle certainly should take prece
dence over any specific guidelines. In addi
tion to legal considerations, the misuse of 
alcohol clearly is responsible for a large
Attention C-Book Readers
If you have moved during the first few weeks of school, or your registration form had 
any wrong information on it, please fill out the following form and return it to:
Alpha Phi OmegaBox 100 campus mail
NAME _________________________________________________________________________________
MAJOR_______________CLASSMail Box
PHONE _ 
Local Address
number of problems in our society. The 
university has an obligation to provide an 
environment in which students learn to rec
ognize these problems and to avoid them. 
An outright ban on drinking probably is 
both ineffective and socially not helpful. 
Nevertheless we do have an obligation to 
encourage responsible behavior both by 
word and by example.
I would like you to observe the following 
specific guidelines in addition to the general 
principle oudined above.
1) Alcoholic beverages are not to be con
sumed anywhere on the grounds of 
Camegie-Mellon University. This guide
line rules out picnics or parties at which 
alcohol is served on the Cut, on the Mall, in 
the Fraternity area grounds, in housing 
grounds, on the athletic field or in any other 
outdoor area at Camegie-Mellon Univer
sity. Alcoholic beverages served at outdoor
V'V/i^2^ v
jS?
^
> T<. _ />> %
$ & 
& ; &
parties present the wrong image to the com
munity and control of access is difficult if 
not impossible.
2) Because many undergraduates are not 21 
years of age, the service of alcoholic bever
ages to Undergraduates at official functions 
or with university funds raises serious ques
tions. If a dean or department head is per
sonally willing to see that appropriate steps 
are taken to insure that the alcoholic bever
ages are served only to students who are 21 
years erf age or older, then an exception is 
possible. Events for undergraduates at 
which alcoholic beverages are to be served 
should be cleared in advance with the Dean 
of Students to make sure that the nature, 
place and control are appropriate and 
acceptable.
3) Events which are held specifically for 
graduate students and at which only gradu
ate students are in attendence may include 
the service of alcoholic beverages. Here 
again, the appropriate dean and department 
head are personally responsible for seeing 
that only graduate students or others of age 
21 or older are in attendance and are served.
4) Events at which alcoholic beverages are 
served on campus must take place in a loca
tion which is private or semi-private. Events 
may not be held in public spaces of aca
demic buildings-hallways, classrooms, etc.
5) Organizers of an event at which alcoholic 
beverages are served are responsible for see
ing that the location of the event is carefully 
cleaned within several hours following the 
event. In other words, empty drink contain
ers, bottles, beer cans, etc. should not be left 
lying around any space in the university.
6) Students within the privacy of their own 
dorm rooms, campus apartments, fraterni
ties, or sororities are responsible for their 
own behavior. They clearly should under
stand that their behaviour is governed by the 
laws of Pennsylvania. In addition, the 
behavior of students should not under any 
circumstances interfere with the rights of 
other persons or result in damage to the 
property of others. If interference or damage 
occurs, the university reserves the right to 
place and enforce strong restraints. I sin^ cereiy.Jiope that such restraints will not 
become necessary."Road Warrior"
continued from page 17
would have done fine.
Therefore, since this is my review of a film 
I enjoyed Im suggesting that you see it. 
However, if this were my dates review shed 
tell you that she had more fun watching 
mold grow on a three-day-old bologna sand
wich. Shed probably rename it too, some
thing like: More Idiotic Trash from a 
Third-Rate Movie Outfit.
Id just call it: Creative Ways to Die at 175 
MPH.
PRO-LIFE 
EDUCATION DAY
Learn the facts. Understand the issues
Saturday, Sept. 18, 1982 
10:36 a.m.  3 p.m. 
Doherty Hall, Room 1212 
4 speakers, including 
a doctor and lawyer
Sponsored by CMU Association For Life
\Yf// I nrjwrXI4* sxJq
JJ.I Ml J1 J X.%6 Uil fcVSOtt/ WA

---------------------------------------------------

photo by Chuck Hartmann
Hie Plaid Curtain squashes on Duquesne running back Pedro Bowman (34) en route to a 19-7 victory.Tartans get revenge by destroying Duquesne
Vasalani being the workhorse but Coach 
Chuck Klausing repeatedly called the same 
play or some variation erf it and the Dukes 
defense picked it up and stopped it
However, Klausing crossed up Dan 
McAnns troops by calling a play action 
bomb which quarterback Bill Kiselick and 
receiver Dan Fry executed perfecdy. It set up 
Kiselicks 11-yard touchdown run behind 
the blocking erf senior Rick Creech, which 
put the Tartans up 6-0. Holder Roger Roble 
fumbled the snap on the extra point
Kiselicks touchdown gave CMU a big lift 
because the team came out like gangbusters 
in the second half. Sophomore Mike 
Garverick replaced Vasalani at halfbcak and 
rejuvinated the running attack with his 
quick acceleration, this combined with 
passes to running bade Jim Morrison led 
CMU to their second touchdown, a pass 
from Kiselick to Morrison.
Unnoticed throughout all these heroics 
was the great playing of the special teams.
continued on peg* 23
Harriers run strong in meet
By FRANK MATOUSEK
Tartan Staffwriter
The weather was hot last weekend, but so 
were the Tartans. On Saturday, September 
11, the Camegie-Mellon cross country team 
opened its 1982 season at the California 
State Invitational. The Tartans earned a 
third place in both the "A and B div
isions in the sweltering afternoon heat.
Saturdays temperature rose into the 80's 
for the race, and the effect of the hot after
noon was detrimental to the Tartans. One of 
CMUs All-American runners, Mike Short, 
was affected the most. Short had to drop out 
of the race after about two miles because of 
the intense heat. However, the team sdll 
came through and finished just five points 
out of second place.
Coach Gary Meckley commented that 
this was CMUs best performance at this 
meet (the Tartans finished third last year). 
Before Short was forced to drop out, though, 
the race was clearly between CamegieMellon and West Virginia University, and 
CMU was heading toward an easy second 
place to Division I WVU.
Coach Meckley was very pleased with die 
results, since the Tartan harriers stood up to 
national caliber runners so early in the sea
son. This is a greater accomplishment than 
it seems, since the Tartans have had very few 
speed workouts so far this year, and two of 
the top runners are out with injuries.
The top placers (and award winners) for 
CMU* in the A division race were Kevin 
Brewer (8th place), All-American John Wessek (13th place), Mark Merly (16th place), 
and John McGowen (19th place). Top fin
ishers in the B division race were Lauren 
Lewendowski (7th place), and Mark Zeledci 
(10th place).
Judging from Saturdays race, the Tartan 
runners are off to a good start on the road to 
the 1962 national championships. Their 
goal is to better last years performance of 
sixth place at the nationals, which is a very 
high goal indeed. However, Coach Meckley 
sees this team as a bout even with last years 
team at this point in the season. About 
Saturdays performance at the California 
Invitational, Coach Meckley remarked, *'I 
thought we did well, I wasnt 
disappointed."
By JEFF BERGMAN
Tartan Sports Editor 
The Plaid Curtain has returned.
The (Mice great defense was supposed to 
be decimated by graduation. However, 
Coach Don Poluszeks boys showed 
Duquesne "how to by thrashing the 
Dukes, 19-0, Saturday at Tech Field.
> The CMU defense was led by junior 
noseguard Joe Nardone. Nardone almost 
single-handedly controlled the line of 
scrimmage in stopping Duquesnes 
sophomore running back sensation Pedro 
Bowman. Bowman, who rushed for over 
180 yards the week before against Grove
City, was held to less than two yards a carry. 
Also playing superbly for the Tartans were 
safety Andy Rossi, who had two 
interceptions, and captain Lee Ferkedc, 
who played his usual outstanding game.
The game was dominated from start to 
finish by CMU but many of the fans 
questioned whether the Tartans were going 
to get their offense on track or not. For most 
erf the first half, the Tartans lined up in a 
double tight end formation with the 
running backs in the eye, and with a 
blocking back lined up either behind the left 
or right guard. The formation worked fear a 
good part of the first quarter with Joe
f Sophomore li Reed shows her stuff at the net.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanSeptember 14, 1982
Tennis begins on right foot
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU womens tennis team, under 
the direction of Coach Mark Bush, started 
off the 1982 season with two consecutive 
non-conference matches.
The twelve-member squad, consisting 
mostly of returning players and few 
newcomers, squeaked by Robert Morris 
College, 5-4, to take the opener on Friday. 
Unfortunately, the team did not fare as well 
the next day, losing 8-1, in humid West 
Virginia against West Liberty College.
For the first time, the womens team 
played six singles and three doubles 
matches, totalling an average of four long 
hours of play. This format is followed for 
non-conference play; whereas, three singles 
and two doubles matches are recognized in 
conference tournaments.
Coach Bushs lineup is still tentative; as a 
result, sophomore Liza Reed played first 
singles for the first time. Although she 
exhibited gallant efforts on both days, she 
could not overcome the seasoned top singles 
players. Junior Bridget Kyne, who as a 
freshman captured the third singles 
conference tide, played second singles, a step 
down from her number one singles berth 
last season. Bridget lost on Friday but she 
quickly rebounded and notched the teams 
sole win on Saturday.
Junior Andrea Fabrega, seeking a second 
cpnsecutive conferencce title at third singles,
played two grueling three-set matches and 
split the two decisions. Junior Pauline 
Kramer and senior Brenda Goldstein played 
fourth and fifth singles against Robert 
Morris and swapped positions against West 
Liberty. They too posted split decisions.
At sixth singles, sophomore Lorena 
Miller won at home on Friday but lost the 
following day. Senior Trina Nagasawa, 
playing her third year for the Tartans, won 
an (Exhibition match at seventh singles 
without relinquishing a single game.
First doubles featured last years winning 
conference pair, Liza Reed and Pauline 
Kramer. They worked hard after their 
singles matches but could not get by the 
combinations of both teams first and 
second singles players.
Sophomore Laurie Arendas and junior 
Beth Dougherty paired off at second 
doubles; their win on Friday provided the 
netters with a winning margin. However, 
they could not offer a repea t performance on 
the following day.
On Friday, Bridget combined with Leslie 
Ingles, a promising freshman, and then 
with Trina for the WLC match to play third 
doubles. Although both teams displayed 
tremendous efforts, each lost by close scores.
Following yesterdays Geneva match, 
CMU will have a week to prepare for 
Mondays confrontation with Pitt in 
another upper-level non-conference match.
CMU soccer team practices for the first annual ramfgif-MHlnn soccer tournament to be 
held this weekend.
Other sports begin seasons
VOLLEYBALL Last years CMU Womens 
Volleyball team managed to capture third 
place in the Pennwood West Conference 
Championship despite having a limited 
number of players.
With several incoming freshmen and the 
return of sophomore All-Conference selec
tion Helen Clark, who Head Coach Jane 
Fisk calls spectacular to watcji, the TarThe NFC is previewed and Chico chooses
By JEFFREY BERGMAN
Tartan Sports Editor
This is the second half of my NFL 
preview. This week Im previewing the 
NFG Following, the preview Ill make my 
picks for the week.
NFC East
1. Dallas Cowboys Who else? They wont 
be as awesome because their secondary is 
weak but they should still be #1.
2. New York Giants Now that Scott 
Brunner is the quarterback because of an 
injury to Phil Simms, the Giants should 
roll. The defense is devastating but to be 
Super Bowl material the Giants need Rob 
Carpenter.
3. Philadelphia Eagles Coach Dick Vermiel has his work cut out for him. He must 
resurrect an impotent offense and a defen
sive line that lost two erf its key players. A 
team on the way down.
4. Washington Redskins If the Giants 
wouldve lost to the Cowboys in that final 
game thriller the Skins wouldve made the 
playoffs. Can they continue their streak into 
1982? Doubtful, another .500 season.
5. SL Louis Cards The Cards will finish 
last again because they have no defense and 
that once great offensive line is getting old. 
NFC Central
1. Green Bay Packers Why not? They 
have great receivers, a good defense and an 
improving offensive line, with the addition 
of Angelo Fields via trade and Ron Hallstrom by the draft If quarterback Lynn 
Dickey and running back Eddie Lee Ivory 
stay healthy then Bart Starr might pull this 
one off.
2. Detroit Lions The Lions season all 
depends if star back Billy Sims ends his hold 
out. If not, forget the Lions.
3. Minnesota Vikings This is an adjustBE IN THE
FOREFRONT
OF TOD AYS
TECHNOLOGY
AS AN AIR
FORCE
ENGINEER
Our engineering officers are planning and 
designing tomorrows weapon systems today. 
Many are seeing their ideas and concepts 
materialize. They have the finest, state-ofthe-art equipment to test their theories. The 
working environment is conducive to research. 
And Air Force experience is second to none. 
You can be part of this dynamic team if you 
have an engineering degree. Your first step 
will be Officer Training School. Help us shape 
our future as we help you start yours. Be an 
engineering officer in the Air Force. Contact 
your Air Force recruiter at 412-243-2722, 
SSgt. Lou Prestera. Call Collect.
umism
A great wo y o* Wer
ment year for the Vikes as they must get used 
to their new surroundings. Next year theyll 
be up there.
4. Tampa Bay Buccaneers They are an 
off and on team, and according to the past 
this is their off year. With the trades of 
Dewey Selmon and David Lewis, the 
defense will be hurt but the Bucs should win 
seven games in this mediocre division.
5. Chicago Bears Jim McMahon was 
drafted to be the savior of this club but he has 
yet to show it. Without a bonafide QB, the 
Bears will again have their same boring 
offense.
NFC West
1. San Francisco 49ers Bill Walsh is such a 
genius that even with the loss of all-pro 
guard Randy Cross the Niners should be 
just as powerful.
2. Atlanta Falcons The Falcons are also 
one erf those off and on teams. According to 
the past, this should be a Falcon year. If 
linebackers Buddy Curry and Joel Williams 
stay healthy then this tradition will be true.
3. Los Angeles Rams Bert Jones is a great 
quarterback if he has an offensive line in
continued on page 23
tans look to challenge for the conference 
championship.
Another key performer will be senior cap
tain Jan Szwarc, an all-around player who 
can set, hit and play defense, according to 
Fisk.
"This is the first year we can field a team 
with ten experienced players, she added. :
This years schedule opens with two 
home games, La Roche College and Penn 
State McKeesport on September 15 and 16, 
respectively.
FIELD HOCKEY Last years 3-5 overall 
record for Joan Masers field hockey team 
was respectable considering the youth and 
inexperience the squad possessed. "Were 
definitely hoping for improvement and hav
ing people coming back with some expe
rience should help, the second-year coack 
said.
The Tartans, who are led by senior for
ward and All-Conference performer Beth 
Macelwee, the teams leading sccner, will 
open their schedule at Indiana University of 
Pennsylvania on September 17.
Last years overtime loss to conference 
champion Bethany provides Maser with 
confidence that the Tartans can stay with 
the faster and more experienced teams.
This years second contest will pit the 
Tartans against the Bisons at Bethany on 
September 21.
SOCCER Second-year Head Coach Nick 
Gaudioso has organized the first ever CMU 
Soccer tournament in hopes of improving 
the soccer program. The action takes place 
September 17-18 and includes Edinboro, 
Geneva and Wheeling colleges.
THE LATEST IN ELECTONIC GAMES / PINBALL MACHINES
Domestics
12 oz. & 16 oi. cans (& quarts)
STROHS
LOWENBRAU I., Dk -bottles
MICHEIOB
BUDWEISER
MILLER
OLD ENGLISH 800*
SCHLITZ MALT'
IRON CITY
E RI ANGE R bottles 
GENNESEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHMIDTS*
PABST*
SCHLITZ
PEARL (Texas)bottles 
DOUBLE DARKbottles 
BLATZ 
PIELS
OLD MILWAUKEE 
PINK CHAMP ALE -bottles
COLT 45
MILLER LITE 
MlCHELOB LITE 
IRON CITY LIGHT
'ovolobi* in quarts otto
FEATURING 22 VARIETIES OF SUBS
SieateCorned 8eef*TunaTurkey
SANDWICHES
H<iddock#Cod#Grownd SteokeSausage 
Veol*Chuck#CHtcken Parmesan
SPECIALTY ITEMS
Steok Subs^fresh Cut French Fries 
Hot Dog* with choice of 12 condiments 
Puzo served till 3om
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
Serving beer Sunday lpm-2om 
Imports, Cons, Quorts, Draft Pitchers/Mugs 
Your Choice of 6 Draft Beers 
HEINEKENMOlSON ALE*MICHlOB 
STROHSMILlERSCHllTZ MALT 
One drffereri 16 oz 6 pit. 
featured each week;
STROHSeROlLING ROCK*SCHllTZ 
OLD ENGLISH 500*SCHLITZ MALTePABST
- ImportsBECK 5 It. Dk  Geroviny SI PAUll Glfcl Gerrmmy
BASS AU -England DOS EQUIS ** Me.fO
HARP (AGER t/ekmd JOHN COURAGf fnyt.mil
MOtSON GOLDfN -Canada WAINfYS-fnylund
HtlNfKENlI, Dl - Holland 
lOWENBRAU - Germany 
OKEEEf AIE-Canada 
PIlSNM URQUflt C/h
KIRNM Japan
MACtCfSON STOUT liekind
ARISBERG ElEPHANI Den 
CARISBRG fOYAlE Denmark 
CARtSBERG DARK Denmark 
tSINGTAO -Chm.1 
HACKER PSCHORR -Germany 
tABATT S  Canada
OLD VIENNA IAGER Canada MURPHY -Ireiand 
55 IAGER Cunada COOPER 4 SON Amtruka
fOS 1ER S I AGf* Austral
A V Open
Ma 9am-3:45am Sun-Thurs
9am 4 45am FriSat 
Call 621 7388 or 621 1185 
3901 Forbes Ave. (Oaklond) HOT DOG SHOPS. INC. Pgh. Po 15213

---------------------------------------------------

September 14, 1982The TartanPage 23
hico picks
from page 22
nt of him. Unfortunately, he came to the 
is just as the once great line has been 
ecimated by injuries and retirements. A
00 season.
4. New Orleans Saints. Slowly but surely 
e Saints are being built into a quality ball
lub.
CHICO S CHOICES
Last week, I was a respectable 6-7 (not 
ncluding Monday night). By the way, I 
orgot to mention my best bets last week 
ere the Chiefs, Saints, and Broncos. That 
uts me at 1-2 in that department. Anyway 
is week, my best bets are Tampa Bay, 
ouston, and Cincinnati. 
ints over BEARS Chicago has yet to show 
ny consistency on offense.
[RDS over Cowboys St. Louis will be 
ired up for this one.
tgals over STEELERS Pittsburgh will 
ave a letdown after tough Monday night. 
IMS over Lions Detroit got lucky last 
eek against the hapless Bears.
-IANTS over Packers Jints are mad from 
ast weeks loss to Falcons.
OLPHINS over Colts Same thing goes for 
e Colts.
RONCOS over 49ers Denver does not lose 
wo in a row at home.
UCS over Redskins That Florida heat will
o the Redskins in.
JIOWNS over Eagles Cleveland looked 
ery good against the Hawks last week. 
HIEFS over Chargers Chiefs get fired up 
or big divisional batde and theyll be a 
ome dog.
ATS over Jets New York continues their 
nnual bad start plus they are playing in 
oxboro.
ILERS over Seahawks Unless coach Patra starts Zom the Seahawks will suffer. 
ALCONS over Raiders Adanta is a good 
tarting team and should win their home 
ner.
artans win
from page 21
On all the kickoffs and punts, the coverage 
fantastic. Punt returner, Jim Chrise, 
a great day, averaging 11 yards a return, 
owever, the game ball should go to punter 
ike OShip, who averaged 45 yards a punt 
d brought the crowd to its feet with a 
spectacular coffin comer kick which put 
ihiquesne in the hole inside their five-yard 
line.
The Tartans scored their last TD on a Joe 
Vasalani special. Vasalani, who led the the 
PAC in scoring last year, leaped over the 
stacked defensive line of the Dukes and into 
the end zone. A beautiful pass from Kiselick 
to sophomore tight end Hailey Carrol set up 
the last score.
Events.
The Lost and Found, a group exhibit by gallery 
members opens Saturday, September 11, from 7-9 
p.m. at BLATENT IMAGE GALLERY. The 
Lost and Found is a new exhibit comprised of a 
series of prints taken from negatives that were lost 
by other photographers then later found by 
members of BLATENT IMAGE. Although 
some of these negatives are over 40 years old, all of 
the prints are new, printed especially for this 
exhibit.
The Gallery members participating in this show 
include Bernard Belair, Kevin Brunelle, Joan 
Cicak, Seth Dickerman, Tim Fabian, Sandy 
Moore, Wes Morar, Tom Underiner, Lorraine 
Vullo, and Stacy Weiss. The Lost and Found, the 
sixth group exhibit from the non-profit co-op 
since its inauguration in April of 1981, runs 
through October 8.
BLATENT IMAGE hours are Wednesday 
through Friday 1-6 p.m., Saturday 1-9 p.m., and 
Sunday 1-6 p.m. The Gallery is located at 4626 
Forbes Ave. (near S. Craig).
For more information contact Pat Roncevich.
The American Recorder Societys Pittsburgh 
Chapter will hold its annual spring concert on 
Sunday, May 16th, at 2:00 p.m. at the Frick Audit
orium on the University of Pittsburgh campus in 
Oakland. The concert will feature a program of 
early music performed by Pittsburgh Chapter 
members on recorder, lute, harpsichord, and 
other period instruments. The program focuses 
on music from the 15th through 17th centuries. 
Admission is free.
For added information about the concert, or the 
Society, contact Doug Perrson at 571-1825, or 
Dan Muss at 422-3021.
Bnai Brith Hillel invites you to its high Holiday services and dinner at 
the Jewish Community Center, 315 South Bellefield Ave.
Friday, September 17
6 p.m. Dinner on the third floor J.GC.
. 7:30 p.m. J.C.G auditorium. Erev Rosh Hashanah Services. Please make dinner reservations by 
September 10. Call 6212-8875.
Saturday, September 18
9:30a.m. Rosh Hashanah Services in J.GG auditorium followed by Kiddush,apples, honey, and
 cakes.
11 a.m. Liberal Services and Kiddush at CMU Wherret Room, Skibo.
6 p.m. Dinner at Bnai B'rith Hillel dining room third floor. Call for reservations by Sept. 10.
Sunday,- September 19
9:30a.m. Rosh Hashanah Services in J.C.G auditorium followed by Kiddush, apples, honey, and 
cakes.
Sunday, September 26
5:30 p.m. Dinner Erev Yom Kippur, second floor J.GG Make reservauons by Sept. 20.
7:30 p.m. Kol Nidre Services JG.G auditorium.
Monday, September 27
' 9:30 a.m. Yom Kippur Services, J.GG auditorium.
11 a.m. liberal Services, Wherret Room, Skibo.
 5 p.m. Mincha Services, J.GG auditorium, Neilah (closing service) follows, with the final 
_ sounding of the Shofar at approximately 7:30 p.m., break-the-fast at 8:00 p.m. at the J.GG;
reservations by Sept. 20 call 621-8875.
Attack of the Killer Tomatoes
September 18, 1982 6,8,10,12 
A hilarious spoof of your favorite weekend 
movies. You know, the ones where the strange 
mutant (fill in the blank)s try to destroy human
ity and take over the world. Well this rime its the 
tomatoes (Skibos most probably) so if you want 
to catch the action head on down to 2210 this. 
Saturday night. You wont regret it.
BLATENT IMAGE GALLERY announces the 
opening of a one-man exhibit by local artist Greg 
Pokorsky on September 4, from 7-9 p.m. The 
exhibit, entided An Autobiography, consists of 
photographic montages that are not typical 
paste-ups in that they are well thought out and 
planned. All the photographs come from the 
pages of the National Geographic and in his 
work Pokorsky explores different styles and 
methods.
Dont let this year foil you! Anyone wishing to 
join the varsity fencing team come to our 
practices on Monday or Tuesday evenings at 7:00 
. p.m. in the Thisde Hall gym. No experience 
necessary, equipment provided.
Problems with school, work, or with significant 
others sometimes seem overwhelming. Very 
often professional counseling can help. Call Bill 
Chrisner, 427-0734 for more information.
Cinemette Theatres will resume its Monday and 
Tuesday bargain policy beginning Tuesday, Sep
tember 7. Admission to Cinemette theatres 
within the Pittsburgh city limits (the Bank Cine
mas, Chatham, Fulton, Fiesta, Warner, Squirrel 
Hill, Manor and Kings Court) will be $1.75 
including city amusement tax. Tickets to all sub
urban theatres will be $1.50.
emu bookstore
I* ftAKCft MAIL

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements
has it!DRAFTING 
ENGINEERING & ARTIST SUPPLIES
Stacor/Planhold 
DRAWING TABLESAll styles, B/W, color, plastic or wood tops, metal or wood base.as low as $71.40
Koh-I-Noor 
Staedtler Mars 
Technical Pen Set7 pen set for price 4 
4 pen sets less 20%
Mars T-squares24 Reg. 7.95 
Top Notch price $5.96
Berol Turquoise Pencils & Prismacolor Sets 
less 25%
Artec Lamps  $21.60
Plastic Triangles 
40% Off
Enter the Top Notch 
Pittsburgh ScenesCOLORING CONTESTrn c C with 1 It JL* ML purchase
pick it up at store .
TOP NOTCH
ART MATERIALS, INC819 Penn Avenue (Dwtn.)355-0444
classifieds
Delivery persons needed. Earn up to $7.00 per 
hour. Must be 18, have own car and insurance. 
20-30 positions available. Apply in person 1-4 
p.m. Dominos Pizza, 310 N. Craig St.
Phone persons wanted. Full and part-time. 16 
positions available. Flexible hours. Apply in per
son 1-4 p.m. Dominos Pizza, 310 N. Craig St.
DO IT WITH AN ARCHITECT.
FABULOUS TYPING. $1.50 per page for first 
five pages, $1.00 per page thereafter. Please call 
Catherine at x4225.
Typng and/m* editing service. Experienced in 
assisting foreign students or anyone who has dif
ficulty with English. Call Janet, 255-1526, 1-5.
Guitar lessons: classical, jazz, pop. 3rd year CMU 
music student. Vi hr.  $6; 1 hr.  $10. Call Jozsef 
Toth, 683-7331.
. Furnished room for rent Oakland area. $140- 
$ 160/mo. Utilities included. Call 655-1872 after 5 
p,m.
Greek Folk Dancing Experienced instructor. 12 
wks. beginning Sep. 20, 7-930 at U. of Pitts
burgh. Fee $25. Call 624-3005.
IMPROVE YOUR GRADES! Research catalog
 306 pages  10,278 topics. Rush $1.00, Box 
25097C, Los Angeles, CA 90025. (213) 477-8226.
Professional typing/word processing: thesis,
manuscripts, research, resume, repetitive letters, 
etc. (MLA - APA and Turabian strongly 
observed.) Large variety erf typefaces and 24 hour 
service available. Call Mrs. West, 371-3657. 
Satisfaction guaranteed.
general
President Cyert and Dean Walter will have open 
office hours for students between 11:00 a.m. and 
12:30 p.m. in room 112 SKIBO on Friday, Sep
tember 17. Students who wish to meet and discuss 
any areas of concern or interest related to the 
University should telephone 578-2075 to set up 
an appointment.
CMU Military Veterans Meeting. A meeting is 
scheduled to bring together veterans who are 
faculty, students,or staff at CMU. September 29, 
7:30 p.m., Skibo Room 12.
LIKE DINOSAURS? UK MONET? The Carne
gie Museum erf Natural History and the Museum 
erf Art are looking for you if youre interested in 
being a valued volunteer. You can work in a 
variety of places within the two museums: Gift 
Shop, Paleontology, Art, Insects, Education, 
Birds. Call Alisa Thompson in VOLUNTEERS 
for more information, 622-3318.
John P. Credne, Dean of the College of Humani
ties and Social Sciences, will hold open office 
hours for students on Tuesdays, 1:30-3:30.
Language Tables: Mesa Redonda Tuesdays at 
noon, starting October 12; La Table Franaise 
Wednesdays at 11:30, starting October 13; 
Deutscher Stammtisch Thursdays at noon, start
ing October 14. Morewood Dining Room. Spon
sored by European Studies and Modem 
Language programs. Interested students, faculty, 
staff welcome.
Bnai Brith Hillel
September 16  Israeli dancing begins, 8 p.m., 
Hillel Dining Room.
September 17  Dinner, 6 p.m., Erev Rosh 
Hashanah services 7:30 p.m., JCC auditorium. 
Dinner reservations by September 10.
September 18  Rosh Hashanah Services, 
Dinner at 6:00 p.m. Must make advance 
reservations.
September 19  Rosh Hashanah Services, JCC 
auditorium, 9:30 a.m.
Roman Catholic Chaplins Undergraduate 
Group meets every Wednesday at 6.00 at the 
Oratory. Mass, free dinner and discussion. This 
weeks topic is God Covenants. Meet at 5:30 at 
Tech House for walk to Oratory or call Andy at 
621-2911 for directions.
Square Dance. On Friday, Sept. 17th at 8:00 PM 
the Roman Catholic Chaplin will be sponsoring 
a square dance in Skibo Ballroom. Free to all! 
Everyone interested is invited to come and join in 
the fun. Gall the Oratory for more info at 681- 
3181.
Wed (9 p.m.) - Sept and Sat (midnight) Sept. 
BBC College Concert Hour Duran Duran 
recorded in concert
every Thurs. (6 p.m.)
Weekly Reader news and views others ignore
Mon (5:30)
National Radio Theatre: Sea wolf. Radio Drama. 
All people interested in ordering Rugby 
equipment; jerseys, shorts, mouthpieces, should 
contact Eric Hoffman immediately at x3932
Rugby Scrimage. Sept 18th at noon on Flagstaff 
Hill. All students invited to watch. 
BEVERAGES will be supplied.
President Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 and 5 p.m., in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Monday, September 
20, 1982. Students who wish to meet with the 
president should telephone his office, 578-2200, 
to set up an appointment.
club
DIRECTORS CALL: Scotch N Soda will hold 
a directors call, for this semesters shows, this 
Thursday, September 16, at 7 p.m. in Skibo 
Room 13. Bring a short resume.
MUSICAL AUDITIONS: ScotchN Soda will 
hold auditions for The Fantasticks this Saturday, 
September 18, at noon in Skibo Room 11. 
Prepare two songs, one fast and one slow. 
Readings will be from the show. Six men and 
two women are needed.
Allegheny 
Womens Center
Abortions 
Free Pregnancy 
Tests 
Related Counseling
Mon.-Fri. 9-5, Sat. 104 
3622920
Pregnant1 And you didnt mean to be?
For a free pregnancy test and confidential 
help, call Birthright at 621-1988.
PREPARE FOR
MCAT'LSAT'GMAT SAT-DAT-G RE. CPA
Permanent Centers open days, 
evenings and weekends.
Low hourly cost. Dedicated full
time staff.
Complete TEST-n-TAPESMfacilities 
for review of class lessons and 
supplementary materials.
Small classes taught by skilled 
instructors.
 Opportunity to make up missed 
lessons.
 Voluminous home-study materials 
constantly updated by research
ers expert in their field.
 Opportunity to transfer to and 
continue study at any of our 
over 85 centers.
OTHER COURSES AVAILABLE
GRE PSYCH & BIO  MAT  PCAT  OCAT  VAT  TOEFL 
MSKP  NMB  VQE  ECFMG  FLEX  NOB  NLE
Cad Days Even & Weekends
Essex House L12-RN
 Corners Center, Negley & Baurr 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206
EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938661-2772
Rugby Club. Practice! Tuesdays and Fridays 
4:30 PM, Saturdays at noon. Meet at Flagstaff 
Hill. All newcomers are welcome.
Graduate Student Organization, Assembl 
Meeting. Wednesday, Sept. 22, 7:30 PM, GSL\ 
Auditorium. Agenda includes nominations for 
Secretary, Treasurer and discussion of fall plans, 
Contact Charles Krafft x2465.
Join the Kiltie Band. Do you play an instrument 
and like to march? Like to learn? Come join the 
Kilties for practice on Tech Field every Monda 
and Wednesday at 5:30.
The CMU PEACE ALLIANCE will meet 0n 
Tuesday, Sept. 21st, at 5:30 p.m., Wean Half 
Room 8325. All people concerned with the threat 
of nuclear warfare are welcome to attend 
Investment Clubs first meeting will be this 
Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in Skibo Room 12. Eve 
ryone is urged to come and check it out. Don 
forget your money, (only kidding).
*
workshops __
The following workshops will be offered this 
fall by the Counseling and Student Devlop. 
ment Center. Please call 578-2922 to regisjfc? a 
and find out where they will be held. 
Speaking of Sexuality: In this workshop, par
ticipants will examine personal and cultural 
issues related to human sexuality by explor
ing sexual values, self-image, relationships, 
and life style. Six sessions, Thursdays, Sep
tember 16 to October 21, hours to be arranged, 
Career Decision Making: In this workshop, 
participants will learn the process for effective 
life planning and career development, with 
focus on identifying priorities, interests, 
skills, work satisfactions, hopes and personal 
goals. Six sessions, 4:00-5:00 p.m., Wednisdays, September 22 to October 27.
Managing Stress: This workshop is designed 
to help students cope with academic pres
sures, deadlines, decisions, and other inherent 
stresses associated with being a student, as 
well as find ways to reduce future stress. Four 
sessions, 4:00-6:00 p.m., Thursdays, Sep
tember 23 to October 14.
Sometimes Its Difficult to Even Say Hello: 
This workshop is designed to help students 
who find meeting new people to be a time of 
uncertainty and anxiety-producing. Students 
will have an opportunity to share these f<& 1 
ings with others and learn to go beyond an 
awkward beginning. Six Mondays, Sep
tember 20 to November 1 (except October 18), 
4:00-5:30 p.m.
Speedreading: ($50 fee) Brought back by pop
ular demand, this six week course will not 
only improve your reading rate, but will 
increase comprehension as well, and suggest 
ways to improve overall study skills. You 
must preregister and pay fee in advance to be 
assured of a place. Class limit of 30; if interest 
is large enough a second course may be added. 
Thursdays, 7:00-9:00 p.m., September 23 w 
October 28.
Effective Studying: This three-hour work 
shop is designed to help you develop more 
effective study habits, including time and 
stress management, motivation, and note tak
ing. One session, Saturday, September 25, 
9:00-12:00 a.m. No need to preregister.
Taking Tests: This workshop will look at 
ways to improve performance on tests, includ
ing tips on improving memory, strategies for 
approaching different types of exams, and 
ways to prevent psyching yourself out. Two 
sessions, 4:00-5:30 p.m., Tuesdays, October^ L 
and 12. No need to preregister.
There are ALTERNATIVES 
... TO ABORTION
HOT LINE: 731-2420
Information/counseling 
9 A.M. to 11 P.M. everyday
PREGNANCY TESTING:
908 Penn Ave., Downtown
8-10 A.M. MWF, 11-1 P.M. TTHS
391-4706
ATA  Free and confidmlial wnica for prqpMart won**1
1
