The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, Volume 81, Number 5, October 7. 19S0
Arch students organize 
to force admin, action
Israeli Consul speaks at CMU
curriculum changes raised in last weeks 
issue of The Tartan.
Since the Spring of 1979, considerable 
controversy has surrounded the selection of 
Louis Sauer as Head of the Department of 
Architecture. The controversy erupted after 
Sauer presented a lecture before both faculty
and students of the department. A letter 
signed by nine Architecture faculty 
members was sent to Dean Akram Midani, 
challenging Sauer's appointment. The 
letter stated: "We are deeply concerned 
about the methods and products of his 
presnetation. .. We strongly urge the Head 
Search Committee to withdraw Mr. Sauers 
name from consideration.
In another letter dated April 22, to Charles 
Eastman, Chairman of the Search 
Committee, 15 faculty members charged: 
We were denied any information, other 
than hearsay. . . We were not permitted to 
endorse or withhold endorsement... prior to 
the official offers by the administration. . . 
We view these procedures to be 
irresponsible. . .
In addition to faculty concern that arose 
over the selection of Sauer as Head, the 
student member of the search committee, 
William ONeill, raised questions regarding 
the selection process. In a letter dated April 
23, 1979, ONeill charged: Mr. Sauers 
lecture of April 18, 1979, and the seminar of 
the following morning, revealed that his 
having taught for several years and having 
secured research funding are not absolute
indications of his academic or scholarly 
excellence. In summation, I find Mr. Sauers 
academic qualifications, as evidenced by his 
presentations to the department, not in 
keeping with the standards of excellence set 
by the school. Previous to Sauers lecture 
ONeill had supported Sauers 
appointment.
In the May 1st 1979 issue of The Tartan 
Sauer expressed that he could not 
understand how students could oppose his 
appointment "without having had 
sufficient contact with me.
by Melody Mazzie and Janelle Molloy
Nimrod Berkhard, Vice Consul to the 
State of Israel, was at CMU last Tuesday 
afternoon to speak to Dr. Salomons Nation
al Security and Foreign Policy class.
Berkhard, 28, is Israels youngest foreign 
officer. A representative from Philadelphia, 
he spoke to the class about Israeli foreign 
policy.
Prior to the class, Berkhard met with the
Grad students protest
Tartan to discuss recent events in the Middle 
East.
During the Palestinian autonomy talks 
between Egyptian President Anwar Sadat 
and Israeli Prime Minister Menachim 
Begin, Israel claimed Jerusalem its eternal 
capital. Because of that claim, Sadat ended 
the talks. ITie United Nations then voted 
14-0, with the U.S. abstaining, that all 
embassies in Jerusalem be moved to Telcontinued on page 4
Ronald Reagan arriird in Pittsburgh last week for a Republican fundraising breakfast 
(story on page 5)
GSIA students William Frey and Les Fisher discuss the censorship issue with The Tartan
by Renee Rosenfeld
Controversy surrounding the 
administration of the Architecture 
department has escalated over the past two 
weeks. Students of the deparment have 
begun to organize within design sequence 
levels in an effort to force decisive action and 
direction orf the part of the administration. 
On two occasions since last April, 
Architecture students have called for a 
definative statement regarding the policy' 
and direction of the department under 
Louis Sauer. Sauer has not yet responded.
At a meeting of the Architecture faculty 
last Wednesday, Sauer failed to discuss 
issues relating to faculty appointments and
GSIA publication censored
by Lori Zuti
Moments before printing, an article in the 
September 26 issue of Robber Barrons, a 
GSIA student publication, was removed 
from the paper by the GSIA administration.
The authors, Les Fisher and William 
Frey, both second year students at GSIA, feel 
that the administration censored the arti
cle, violating their students rights defined 
in the student handbook.
According to the handbook, Every stu 
dent has the constitutional rights and responisbilities of any citizen under the law, 
which includes the first amendment speech 
rights. Violation of these rights constitutes a 
breach of contract between the University 
and the students.
Yet, according to GSIA Dean Robert 
Kaplan, the article was pulled because we 
wanted to be sure the article had received the 
proper attention from the editor.
Robber Barrons has no official editorial 
policy, but according to Vicki Falco, Direc
tor of Admissions and Student Affairs for 
GSIA, we have an unwritten editorial pol
icy in which anything submitted that either 
the editor or I feel is questionable, person
ally insulting, or harmful in any way, may 
be pulled and discussed. She added, 
though, that the editor has the final word.
However, the editor, Ross Tokmakin, 
had received the article Thursday afternoon 
and had approved the article for 
publication.
Friday afternoon after the paper was set to 
print, both Falco and Tokmakin then left 
the building along with the authors, Fisher 
and Frey.
According to Jan Peterson, .Associate 
Director of Placement and Staff Develop
ment, a student who thought the article 
was objectionable brought it to me. 
Although Peterson has no authority over 
this student run newspaper, she said that 
The decision was made by me...because no 
one else was around.
Dean Kaplan said that he is also taking 
responsibility for pulling the article claim
ing that the article was not done in good 
taste.
I dont want the paper as a place for ad 
hominem attacks, he added.
Yet according to the Dean, this was the 
first time he had seen an article in advance 
and that he usually relies on the editor to 
make those decisions.
The result of this is a draft of an editorial 
policy, said Dean Kaplan. It was just an 
unfortunate set of circumstances. he added.
The authors, Fisher and Frey, descibe 
their article as a sarcastic piece and as a 
piece of criticism concerning Professor 
Allen Meltzers method of teaching.
Both students were upset not only because 
the article was censored, but that they were 
not contacted or consulted about the remo
val of the article until after the Robber Bar
rons had been published. Les was at home 
sleeping and I was in the library, com
mented Frey.
According to Peterson, the article was 
just delayed and could be published this 
w'eek. -
However, Fisher claims that we are with
drawing the article because it is no longer 
timely.
Fisher also commented that the Dean told 
them it was pulled because he had to con
sider the broader implications of the issue. 
Loss of Meltzer would be a severe blow to 
GSIA, added Frey.
Concerning these broader implica
tions, Dean Kaplan said the teachers wil
lingness to experiment in class would be 
decreased, with these kinds of articles.
Yet according to Falco, There have been 
articles that have been just as harsh printed.
Vicki Falco suggested that the issue 
might hinder our standing in GSIA, Fisher 
said. However, when asked about this state
ment, Falco claimed that she was not refer
ring to the article and declined to comment 
on what she was referring to.
In order to graduate from GSIA a student 
needs a B average and a favorable vote 
from the faculty. Theoretically, the Dean 
said, this vote could prevent a student from 
graduating.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
GSIA censorship: discretion misplaced?
Freedom of the press is essential to political 
liberty. A society of self-governing people is 
possible only if the people are informed. 
Where men cannot freely exchange thoughts, 
no freedom is secure. But what if that freedom 
is used in a vulgar, immoral, dishonest, libe
lous or obscene manner?
Though laws were created to protect people 
from this sort of misuse, there is often a fine 
line between libel and fact. Discretion is neces
sary in order to responsibly carry out the role of 
the press. This weeks incident with the 
Robber Barrons at GSIA is an instance where 
discretion may have been misplaced.
Most obviously we can wonder about Dean 
Kaplans intentions when he decided not to 
publish the Robber Barrons article. Was he 
trying to suppress student views that were 
unpleasent to one of his faculty members? Or 
maybe he was merely try ing to call something 
to the editors attention something the editor 
should have noticed and corrected before pub
lication. Were the student writers subtly threa
tened when told that if they make a fuss about 
their article being pulled they might be in 
jeopardy of graduating? Or were they merely 
told that professors, like all other humans, 
cant help but be influenced by unpleasent 
events surrounding somebodys name. Per
haps this particular instance was merely a 
blunder by all persons involved; however, The 
Tartan feels that the potential problem is one 
worth mentioning.
Though legal precedents of press freedom in 
private universities are few, the ethical basis of 
this freedom is certainly as important as the 
legal one. It is paradoxical for an institution of 
higher education to stand for unrestricted 
inquiry in the classroom but to restrict inquiry 
and expression in student publications. Even if 
a private college cannot be required by lawT to 
provide freedom of expression, it compromises 
its integrity if it does not. Institutions that
profess belief in academic freedom cannot be 
respected as an academic institution if they 
censor manipulate or control the student press.
As an institution, CMU encourages the pur
suit of knowledge and the free expression of 
ideas and for the most part the university has 
not tampered with the freedom of student pub
lications. But possibly its the smaller publica
tions, like the Robber Barrons, that must be 
wary: suppression of a smaller publication 
would not draw as much publicity as the cen
sorship of the primary student newspaper. On 
the other hand, perhaps the small publication 
editors are less aware of the potential power of 
a student publication.
In light of the controversy that could have 
arisen out of this weeks Robber Barrons issue 
it seems appropriate to remind everybody that 
freedom is a two-edged sword. There is a fine 
line between freedom of speech and freedom to 
harass just as there is a fine line between the 
right to educate and the right to control.
Why not the best in 76?
Jimmy Carter: Why not the incompetent in 80
Four years ago, presidential candidate 
Jimmy Carter was making literally 
hundreds of promises to the American peo
ple. At the time, I thought Carter was either 
a naive fool who belived his own rhetoric, 
or a slick politician who knew damn well he 
was lying to the American people. I never 
dreamed that he would prove to be both.
The Carter Economy 
The American economy under Jimmy 
Carter has been horrible. When Carter took 
office, inflation was under five percent. By 
early this year it had risen to 18 percent; then 
Carter and the Federal Reserve Board 
designed a recession to cap the raging infla
tion. We aie still in that recession, which
Bob
Leighty
economists cite as the worst dec line since the 
Great Dep ression.
Ihis year unemployment may exceed 
eight percent; major American industries 
like automobiles, steel and construction are 
in deep financial trouble. Wo yet, infla
tion is still about 12 percem ahd shows signs 
erf another potential explosion.
Carter in 1976 also promised to balance 
the federal budget before the end erf his term. 
This years deficit is projected to be an 
astounding $61 billion. Carter has had 
many economic policies while in office, 
including three in the last eight months. All 
of them have been dramatic failures.
The Carter Foreign Policy 
It should be panted out that Carter has 
had some successes in foreign policy. No 
American (as erf this writing) has died in war 
under Carter-a rare achievement for an 
Amerion president. The Panama Canal 
treaties and D.S. recognition of China were 
necessary, proper and in our interest. Carter
has also made more progress in the Middle 
East than any president since Israel became a 
nation in 1948.
Unfortunately, the accomplishments end 
here. The overall Carter record on foreign 
policy' is one of confusion and ineptitude.
What do you do with a president who 
proclaims human rights for everyone and 
realizes too late it is an American tradition to 
support ruthless dictators?
How' would the President have responded 
to the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan if this 
had not been an Olympic year?
What would the president have done if 
the 19 and 20 year old males were intelligent 
enough to realize; a) draft registration 
doesnt improve our military; adequate pay 
and better equipment does; b) registration is 
thus only hollow symbolism which leaves a 
false sense of security without correcting the 
military s very' deep and very real problems; 
and c) these 19 and 20 year old males are 
being singled out as the one small group 
held responsible for our governments fail
ures in foreign policy?
Jimmy Carter was elected to office on the 
naive premise that he would be able to cut 
defense spending $5-7 billion a year while 
maintaining adequate defense. He has done 
neither. Jimmy Carter was elected to office 
assuming he would have the common sense 
to heed intelligence warnings that the revo
lution in Iran posed a potential threat to the 
safety of Americans in the U.S. embassy 
there. Once again he has failed.
When the history books are written, it is 
probable that the great tragedy of the Carter 
administration will be the loss of SALT II. If 
Carters indec ision and general foreign pol
icy bungling hadnt oceured, the Soviets 
would have thought twice about the risk 
they were taking when invading Afghanis
tan. When the invasion oceured, Carter 
overreacted and called Afghanistan the grea
test threat to peace since World War II (for
getting the Korean War, Berlin airlift, 
Cuban missle crisis and the Vietnam War.) 
In the process, the Soviets and Carter effec
tively killed SALT, at least for the near 
future.
If one doubts the importance erf a fair 
arms limitation treaty between the USSR 
and US, look at the eventual alternative: a 
deadly new arms race, inev itably leading to
the self-destruction of man in nuclear war.
The Other Carter Promises
There is not sufficient room in this news
paper to desdbe the promises made by can
didate Carter in 1976, nor is there room to 
adequately desdbe how he has failed in his 
commit ments.
Weve already looked at the economy, 
where for example Carter promised to lower 
Fords 4.8 percent inflation to less than four 
percent. Weve already looked at foreign pol
io-. which is certainly very foreign to Jimmy 
Carter.
But what about the other Carter commit
ments? What about tax reform? Cutting the 
number of federal agencies? National health 
insurance? Stricter enforcement of environ
mental laws? Keeping federal regulations on 
oil? Removing U.S. trex>ps from Korea? 
Welfare reform? Whether we agree with 
these proposals or not, Carter was elected on 
them and they never became reality.
It has been estimated that Carter has 
broken approximately 200 of some 600 com
mit ments he made in 1976. Now Carter 
promises a better four years-can we belive 
him?
The Carter Management
Why cant Carter make any great accomp
lishments? Why cant Carter provide leader
ship? The basis of the answer lies in Carters 
inability to be a gexxl manager. Unfortu
nately, Carter today is still the same outsider 
and poor manager he was when elected in 
1976.
Carter has had less cooperation from the 
Democratic Congress than any Democratic 
president in history. His "Georgia mafia 
advisors are viewed by others in Washington 
as arrogant political amateurs.
Let's look at some more Carter advisors. 
Do you remember Bert Lance, a very nice 
former Carter employee who dabbles in 
bank fraud? Do you remember Andy 
Young, a good ambassador who never 
learned the meaning of the word 
"diploihacy.
Do you know National Security Advisor 
Zbigniew Brzezinski, the mastermind of the 
Iran rescue attempt, designing (behind 
Secretary- of State Ed Muskies back) a new 
government policy for conducting nuclear 
warfare, and (with the assistance of Attorney 
General Benjamin Civiletti and President 
continued on page 3
npl nr^ .The Tartan
Editor-in-Chief: Susan Borg 
Managing Editor: Doug Kirsop 
Business Manager: Karen Stevens
News Editor: Jim Balsom 
Features Editor. Renee Rosenfeld 
Entertainment Editor: Richard Gorelick 
Sports Editor: Wes Seeley
Production Manager: Smita Pai 
Dossier Editor: Lynn Kpslein 
Photography ^Editor: Roberr Zusman 
Art Directors: Craig Otto, Tom 
Weinkle
Editorial Assistant: Bob Leighty 
Associate News Editor: Jeanne Abmayr 
Foreign Correspondent: K.M. Kulak
Copyright < ll>Stl by The Tartan. I'he Uditeliial Boatti (rame* the iiglii to wiihold from publkaiion any copy a deems 
unfit lot publication, Funded in |*urt by I he Student (overiunent of Caiucgic-Mc-llou t niversity, Pi It simigli. 
Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50. ( 112) 578-2111 or 2112. Business Off i es; Skibo 52,( 112)578-2111,21 houi 
phom% (412) 578-2113, All rights reserved.
ft jit ini* ol photographs taken by member* of The Tartan staff may lie pun hast'd a I the following rates: .1':" * I':" 75 ea.. 
5" % 7" $2.00 ea.. 8" % 1(1" $5,00 eu.. Imeresied jjersom should stop by the Tartan offices during business horns. Printed at
I vi raft Inc.. Pittsburgh, PA.

---------------------------------------------------

October 7, 1980The TartanPage 8
Letters to the Editor
Carnegie -Robot
Jimmy Carter: Why not the incompetent in 1980?
continued from page 2 in him. Most Americans think Carter pos- innation, with the worst economic figures last week he pushed through Congress a
Carter) covering up Billygate? sesses great integrity and would never lower since the Great Depression. $900 million loan for New York City, saying
Carter has had some good people in high himself to hardball campaigning or *Jimmy Carter has incorrectly portrayed It is almost theoretically impossibleprac*
administrative positions, but he cant keep using the powers of the presidency for his Ronald Reagan as a racist and nuclear war tically impossible as well- to think of how I
->, them there. Remeber Cyrus Vance, the first own political benefit. Unfortunately, the proponent while stating about his own can win re-election without New York
Secretary of State to resign (for moral rea- Carter record contrasts sharply with this campaign: "I try to keep a moderate tone. I State. While these funds may indeed be
sons) since William Jennings Brian? belief. try to discuss the issues. needed, Carters motives are questionable.
Remember the wild 1979 cabinet shake-up #Jimmy Carter publicly questioned Ted *Jimmy Carter dismisses John Anderson *Jimmy Carter has turned cabinet 
caused by a "malaise in the White House? Kennedys patriotism for making fairly sens- as a minor candidate and creation of the members and other officials into political
Washington insiders feel another cabinet ible statements on the Iran crisis, then at 7:18 press, yet he launched a massive legal cam- hatchet men as never before;a Iso he had
shake-up is due if Carter is re-elected. AM before the polls opened for the key Wis- paign to keep him off state ballots and still Secretary of Defense Harold Brown disclose
Our European allies similarly find the consin primary, Carter summoned reporters refuses to debate the issues with Anderson details on the now famous stealth bomber,
Carter leadership weak and inconsistent, A to falsely announce a breakthrough in for fear of losing support. without regard to national security,
former Carter speech writer described the that crisis. *Jimmy Carter called a news conference In addition to bragging about his record
president as someone who ...believes 50 *Jimmy Carter would not emerge from in September only to list what he felt were (which is certainly nothing to brag about)
things, but no one thing. Programs cant the Rose Garden and debate Kennedy his latest diplomatic and economic achive- Carter has gradually* eroded presidential
be implemented if they dont exist; Carter, because of the hostage crisis, then after the ments, thus stealing about $2-10,000 in televi- credibility to a disturbing low. It is tin for
the man now on his fifth energy program, disasterous rescue mission and Vances sion advertising. voters to send the peanut man back to his
cant seem to deal with this problem. Thus resignation Carter called the foreign policy *Jimmy Carter has been issuing federal farm. Unfortunately, the alternatives to CarCarter symbolizes change and inconsistency crisis managable and started campaign- funds for political purposes: he converted ter are not much better- but that will be
instead of leadership. ing as usual. Chicago mayor and former Kennedy sup- discussed next week.
The Carter Integrity *Jimmy Carter said the economy had porter Jane Byrne to his side with $100 mil- Bob Leighty is a Junior majoring in TeehNo matter how often and how badly "turned the tide" as we slid from 18 percent lion; before the Connecticut primary he nual Writing and Editing and is Editorial
Jimmy Carter Mis, the public still believes inflation to a deep recession and 12 percent suddenly issued $16 million for highways; Assistant for The Tartan,
Id rather walk
Editor:
The Tartan reported last week that PAT 
intends to raise its standard bus fare from 60 
to 75 cents. At first this announcement 
might seem mildly humorous (New York 
Citys bus fare is only 50 cents), but the truth 
is that it is just not funny. Pittsburghs pub
lic transportation system is not among the 
best in the country, to the contrary it is 
among the worst.
This statement is, to be honest, mere con
jecture. That is, I am only assuming that 
other cities have bus systems that manage to 
accomodate the needs of an urban commun
ity. I am only assuming that other citys 
provide bus schedules that work with the 
public instead of against them. I am only 
assuming that other cities post their fares. I
Maine votes to keep Yankee reactor
Three miles upstream from where it 
empties into Boothbay Harbor, the 
Sheepscot River, one of the more beauitful of Maines many brackish tidal rivers, 
comes to a fork to make room for West
port Island. Seals harbor on the islands 
imposing shoreline in the fall and winter 
and are replaced in late spring and 
summer by fishermen who deftly cast 
their lines between the lobster buoys, 
which dot the cold, dark river, in hopes 
of landing a bushel or twos worth of 
tinker mackeral which make their 
legendary runs up this river. A mile north 
of Westport, about halfway to the town of 
Wiscasset, is Bailys Point, another rocky 
peninsula. Instead of seals or fishermen, 
the shore here is dominated by a tremend5 ous cooling tower. This is the site of 
Maine Yankee, the nuclear power plant 
which, until September 23, was in the 
middle of the battle over the future of 
nuclear power.
Two weeks ago voters in Maine turned 
down a referendum which would cease 
the plants operation. This vote was 
unprecedented  other states have voted 
to prohibit construction of future plants 
(Montana being the only state to have 
such a measure), but none had ever voted 
-j to shut down an existing and operating 
plant. The referendum was defeated 
soundly, almost three to two, but only
after a long and bitter struggle by Maine 
anti-nuclear activists led by Ray Shadis, 
whose farm literally sits in the shadow of 
the plant. Shadis faced a tough oppo
nent, the Save Maine Yankee Committee. 
The group spent over half a million dolKapner
lars on a campaign to save the plant. 
Most of the money was provided by large 
utility companies, such as Maine Central 
Power, and manufacturers of nuclear 
reactors, Westinghouse being the most 
notable. Local industries also pitched in 
money and manpower.
Maine voters faced a tough dilemma. 
Theirs is the poorest state in the nation 
and Maine Yankee is the states largest 
taxpayer. In addition, the plant provides 
over one third of the states power.
The president of Bath Iron Works, the
states single largest employer, claimed 
that if the plant were shut down their 
electric bill would be close to a million 
dollars higher. Maine homeowners, who 
will be paying over a dollar a gallon for 
fuel oil this winter as it is, would face 
sharply higher fuel bills. Yet for State o 
Mainers, who closely identify themselves 
with the land and environment, a nuclear 
power plant looming over one of New 
Englands prettiest rivers is a tough thing 
to accept. In the end, though, the power 
of the pocketbook prevailed over safety 
and environmental concerns.
The fears of nuclear industry officials 
have been temporarily put to rest. 
Nuclear power advocates feared a ripple 
effect on other states if the referendum 
had passed. They now figure if such a 
referendum can be defeated in the Pine 
Tree State it can be licked anywhere.
The Maine vote did, in fact, set the 
stage for the industrys future. For better 
or worse, in an age of diminishing 
resources, nuclear power is probably here 
to stay. It is now time for Ray Shadis, and 
those around the country who share his 
convictions, to focus their fight on effi
cient maintenance and safeguards for 
existing and future nuclear power plants.
Bill Kapner is a senior majoring in 
History and Professional Writing.
am only assuming that other cities have bus 
drivers that are reasonably courteous and 
helpful. The fate of the city of Pittsburgh is 
utterly dependant on the success of its bus 
system. Without the patronage of Pitts
burghs student community, Pittsburghs 
lively arts and shopping district are doomed 
for failure. It has to be easy for these students 
to get to downtown, and it certainly 
shouldnt be an ordeal,
It is however, an ordeal. A passenger gets 
on the bus and is never sure whether he has 
to pay when getting on or getting off. Im 
sure there is a good reason for this custom, 
but at least let us know about it. Give us 
more of a sign than the bus drivers hand 
over the coinbox. The ordeal continues over 
what must be the most nauseating, treacher
ous roads in existense (Im assuming again), 
and finishes in a thoroughly confusing and 
unorganized shopping district (It would 
help if there were some street signs.)
And to pay 75 cents for this? No Sir. Im 
boycotting. I can manage for quite a long 
time without seeing Pittsburghs morbid 
downtown, with its sidewalk lunatics, over
priced department stores and revolting 
architecture. Its Shadyside for me.
The Walking Man
Stay out of Portland
Editor.
Who is Bob Brenner, and why does he 
write such relevant articles? The inclusion 
of his article on the Punk scene in Portland 
in the September 30 Tartan confuses me. 
Who at CMU cares? How many CMU stu
dents will ever go to Portland? How many of 
those who do will care about the Punk scene 
there? Is The Tartan short of articles? 
Couldnt the space have been used for arti
cles on topics of more interest to CMU 
studentssuch as the sex habits of African 
Beedes, frequency of earthquakes in Outer 
Mongolia, or even the average number of 
bananas consumed by the typical Brazilian?
Nick Flynn (A Punk who never 
wants to go to Portland)
Letter Policy
Letters to the editor should be short 
and to the point. If they are not, they 
will be edited. All letters to the editor 
should be submitted by Friday at noon 
if they are to be included in the follow
ing weeks issue of The Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanOctober 7, 1980
Berkhard discusses recent events in Middle East
photo by Robert Zusman 
VICE CONSUL NIMROD BERKHARD
continued from page 1
Aviv, where the majority of embassies
already are located.
When asked why Israel decreed Jerusalem 
its capital at such a seemingly inopportune 
time, Berkhard replied that Jerusalem has 
always been the capital of die Jewish world, 
the Jewish people, even when there was no 
Jewish statehood in Palestine for 2000 
years. In his words, the emotional tie that 
the Jews have with Jerusalem are like 
motherhood and apple pie for Americansyou cant do without it.
Jerusalem was united until 1948 when the 
Israeli War of Independence broke out. The 
Israelis were kept from the sacred Wailing 
Wall, and their memorial tombs were dese
crated. In 1967, when the city was reunified, 
the old quarter was found utterly destroyed. 
Berkhard sees political pressure within the 
dty, aside from the emotional ues, as the 
reason Jerusalem has been declared the capi
tal of Israel.
As of late, Israel has also declared plans to 
build six new settlements on the West Bank. 
According to the Camp David accords, 
Israel is to give this land back to the Arab 
nations over an extended period of time. 
While it may appear that Israel has no inten
tion of giving back the land, Berkhard 
claims that these are the last settlements that 
will be built on the West Bank and claims 
they are nothing but military outposts. 
One should not treat them merely as civ
ilian settlements,  he stated. They are sup
posed to protect key routes and places, 
during war and on a day to day basis. We 
do not think that the settlements are an issue 
in the peace negotiations.
The key issue, as Berkhard sees it, is 
whedier the Arab countries will accept the 
Jewish state in their own homeland. What 
prevents peace, in his view,is that the Arab 
countries-exoepting Egypt-do not come forGenetic engineering
CMU Biologists study recombinant DNA
by Jennifer Hutton
Just a few years ago, genetic engineer
ing brought to mind images erf superhu
man races, escaped lethal bacteria and, as 
one noted biologist jokingly put it, triple - 
headed purple monsters. Many of those 
prospects and fears - as well as some serious 
concerns about safety -- are still widely dis
cussed. But already the infant technology of 
gene splicing, also known as recombinant 
DNA has a produced a smorgasbord of use
ful and important items.
Bacteria - carrying stowaway genes from 
other species have been coaxed into producing nutrients, anti - freeze, medicallv - valua
ble substances like insulin, and the starting 
materials for the industrial manufacture of 
paints, perfumes and plastics.
These living factories have the potential 
to do for medicine, industry and agriculture 
what the calculator did to the slide rule. 
Enviromentalists argue they might also 
have the potential for creating viruses and 
germs, and thus diseases, that medicine 
wont kow how to treat
As recendy as a March, 1978 Indiana Uni
versity forum on the safety of recombinant
Test Yourself
Which is 
Correct:
1. The ship foundered/floundered in the gale.
2. The brook flowed continuously/continually.
3. The criminal was hanged/hung.
4. Lend/loan me $5.
5. My belief in him proved to be a delusion/an illusion.
6. We gave them oral/verbal instructions because they were illiterate.
Look it up in the Oxford American Dictionary! 
It is available at the CMU Bookstore.
DNA work, a science journalist doubted 
that certain potential benefits of recombi
nant research would ever materialize. 
Two years later, research has overcome 
many of the obstacles to making insulin out 
of bacteria. Russell Durbin, spokesmen for 
the Eli Lilly & Company, says, "We expect 
to test biosynthetic insulin in patients before 
the end of 1980.
The techniques developed in basic 
research labs are already finding their way 
into diagnostic hospitals. Doctors are 
employing enzymes to identify human 
genes. They hope that, in the words of the 
University of Minnesotas Walter Saurbier, 
the techniques will help bring the further 
refinement of definition and diagnosis of 
genetic defects.
Dr. John Woolford and several other 
molecular biologists at CMU are perform
ing recombinant DNA research. They are 
studying how groups of genes are turned on 
and off together. This is fundamental for 
studying embryogenesis - the way in which 
a fertilized egg divides into many different 
types of cells. Woolford is using ordinary 
yeast for his studies which have thus far been 
successful in purifying and cloning individ
ual genes in the organism.
continued on page 6
ward to negotiate. Israel, he maintains, has 
always accepted the rights of others in 
Palestine.
The U.S. is supposed to meet in Washing
ton later this year with Israel and Egypt to 
continue peace talks. Begin has said the con
ference will depend upon the resumption of 
the Palestinian autonomy talks.
Israel, excplained Berkhard, wants the 
PLO to gradually gain a modest auto
nomy. Egypt, in contrast, wants to lay out 
the mechanisms for the Palestinian state 
whereby it will be completely autonomous 
in five years from now. Israel wants to dis
cuss Palestinian autonomy in five years. 
Israels desire to regulate the progression 
toward Palestinian autonomy stems from 
fear that the Palestinians may attack them if 
strong enough.
Berkhard stated that Israels only major 
internal problems were economic. Israels 
annual consumption of oil is 8 billion bar
rels, all of which is imported. Thirty to forty 
per cent of this is bought in the spot market 
at a very high rate of 2.5 billion dollars. 
Israels total annual estimated deficit forv
1980 is 2.5 billion dollars. All other imports
and exports are well-balanced, but the high
price paid for oil is resulting in inflation
and the decreasing popularity of the 
government.
Berkhard also feels that there is no easy 
solution to Israels problems in the Middle 
East. He stated that the Arabs are not yet 
reconciled to the existence of a Jewish state 
and that once this situation changes, much 
of the conflict will be resolved.
Berkhard made a statement saying that 
the hostage situation was more of a political 
problem in Iran than in the United States. 
He said, If responsible leadership could 
prevail, then the hostages would have been 
freed a long time ago. After the fall of the 
'Shah, Iran lost its strength and unity. This 
gave rise to anti-American forces in the Mid
dle East trying to gain dominance over the 
Persian Gulf and the flow of oil to the U.S.
In response to the recent casting ot 
Venessa Redgrave in Playing for Time a 
CBS production depicting the situation of 
the Jews in Nazi Germany, Berkhard said 
that he was satisfied with the show and that 
Venessa Redgrave was an excellent actress. 
His only concern was that Ms. Redgrave 
might use this as a podium to counter per
ceptions of her anti-Jewish reputation and 
said that it was very insensitive of CBS to 
use her.
LOOKING FOR A PLACE 
TO TAKE AIR FORCE ROTC? LOOK HERE:
Not ail colleges and universities in .the United States have 
Air Force ROTC programs. And we recognize that many 
people want to enter the two or four-year program and are 
looking for a school where they can take it. Call or visit one of 
the AFROTC detachments listed above and ask about the 
Crosstown" program.
Here are some more facts that may be of interest:
 Courses are open to college men and women.
 Full scholarships are available that pay tuition, books, 
and lab fees, plus $100 a month for other expenses.
 You work toward an Air Force commission upon gradu
ation.
 You have an opportunity to serve your country as an Air 
Force officer.
 You dont have to be enrolled in these schools to attend 
the AFROTC program there.
Check it out right away. Youll find a brand new kind of op
portunity. For more information, call or write:
Air Force ROTC, 2917 Cathedral of Learning 
I niversity of Pittsburgh
<i2WvW7/f:WB
ROTC

---------------------------------------------------

October 7, 1980The TartanPage 5
Reagan speaks in Pgh 
at GOP fundraiser
by Alice Alfonsi
Ronald Reagans recent visit to Pitts
burgh reflected the Republican partys pas
sion to once again control the federal 
government. Reagan appeared at a fund* raising breakfast for Republican Senatorial 
candidate Arlen Specter last Thursday, 
October 2 at the Green tree Marriot Inn.
At the $100 a plate breakfast Reagan 
stressed that there will be 24 Democrat 
Senators up for re-election; and if we get 9 
out of those 24 seats, we will hold one house 
of the congress for the first time in more than 
a quarter of a century.
Republican Senator John Heinz was also 
at Thursdays breakfast. Heinz compared 
Specter, who is currently behind Flaherty in 
the polls (48%-43%), to Thornburgh who 
was also behind before the election, but 
eventually won.
The three Republican candidates run
ning for Congress were announced at the 
breakfast. For the dty of Pittsburgh, Stan 
Thomas will run in the 14th district, Steve 
Snyder in the 18th district, and Kathy Myer 
in the 20th district.
Reagan spoke about the economy and the 
steel industry with confidence. The econ
omy, Reagan said again, will be the major 
issue of this campaign. Reagan described 
his economic plan as having tax cuts; an 
across the board income tax cut of 30% in 
three years, 10% each year. The plan calls for 
increased depreciation in business and 
industry, a 6% annual increase in the defense 
budget, and no cuts in any federal programs: 
Reagan hopes to balance the budget by 
> 1983.
Reagan reminded his Republican 
audience of the current administrations dif
ficulties with budget. With the pressure of 
this administration the Democratic major
ity in the Congress is going to adjom with
out adopting a new budget...they have no 
budget because the Carter administration 
did not want to release the figures for this 
fiscal year that will show a $77 billion 
deficit.
Reagans economic plan has been criticAbbie Hoffman begins U.S college tour
(CPS) Abbie Hoffman, on the run for 
seven years, will hit the road again in a few 
weeks. This time, however hell get paid # 
The ex-Yippie leader-tumed-fugitive will 
soon begin a college lecture tour to tell his 
story to Americas youth. His first speech 
was scheduled for Oct. 6 at the University of 
Miami. Other planned lectures will beat the 
University of Syracuse, Brandeis (his alma 
mater), and at Mercy College in Pennsylva
nia.
New Line Presentations, a New Yorkbased lecture bureau which handles other 
sixties figures like Bobby Seale, Timothy 
Leary and Jerry Rubin, is arranging Hof
fmans schedule. Spokesman for New Line 
said the 43-year-old activist would probably 
pick up somewhere between three and five 
thousand dollars per speech.
Michael Harpster, marketing specialist 
for New Line, said the idea of Hoffman 
hitting the lecture circuit first cropped up 
six months ago when Hoffmans friend, 
Jerry Rubin, called to say Abbie would be 
interested in speaking to students once he 
emerged from seclusion. While in hiding, 
Hoffman, using his assumed name of Barry 
Freed, contacted Harpster personally to 
make the necessary arrangements for the 
deal.
Harpster said it was extremely easy to 
set up dates for the ex-radical, as many 
schools believe such an event is a guaranteed 
sellout.
So far, everybody weve talked to has 
been excited about the proposal. They 
obviously believe the students will turn out, 
and theyll make some good money, he 
said.
The schools will not be the only ones 
making good money. It is believed Hoffman 
hopes to use proceeds from the tour to help 
pay his current and future legal expenses. 
He goes back to court for another appear
ance soon after his first few lectures.
ized for giving $172 billion for personal 
income tax cuts, while only giving $20 bil
lion for business and industry cuts. Alfred 
Kahn, Carters advisor on inflation argues, 
we have a highly progressive income tax 
and the bulk of its benefits are going to 
wealthy people. Kahn asks, how much of it 
(the money from the tax cuts) is going to go 
to...the unemployed, the youth in the ghet
tos...the average man in the street?
On the steel industry Reagan said, jj^ere 
are 5,600 regulations administered by 27 
separate government agencies. That 
sum up entirely what the steel industrys 
problem is.
Reagan wants to cut regulations. His 
answer to unemployment is to put govern
ment in its place. Two days after 
announced his new plan for the steel indus
try, Reagan said that it was the same 
that he had proposed two weeks previously.
Specter criticized Carters dropping of the 
Trigger Price Mechanism last March, 
said, Pete Flaherty is responsible...because 
Flaherty stood idly on the sidelines while 
John Heinz, Dick Schweiker and I were 
really complaining about it.
Reagan concluded by telling the Specter 
supporters to send the Republicans to 
Washington, and if you dont this proba
bly will turn out to be then regular price for 
breakfast
RONALD REAGAN
A woman who needs help needs understanding...
At WHS you receive confidential, 
professional help in an atmosphere 
of understanding and warmth
 Free pregnancy tests
 Free pregnancy counseling
 Termination of unwanted
pregnancy 
Contraceptive care 
instructions
Gynecological checkups 
and Pap tests 
Sexuality and marriage 
counseling
Self breast examination 
procedures
Venereal disease testing 
and treatment 
Fertility referral
mhe?
Womens Health Services
1209 Allegheny Tower
625 Stanwix Street
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(412) 562-1900 Monday-Saturday
(A non-profit, out-patient health facility)
Juniors and Seniors
Qualified science, mathematics, or engineering students 
can earn over $800 each month of your junior/senior year 
with little or no distraction from your studies. Program 
established by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, 
Division of Naval Reactors. For early screening and 
eligibility determination, send resume or letter stating 
background to Mr. Bill Wright, Engineering Program 
Manager, Suite 711, 1000 Liberty Ave., Pittsburgh, PA, 
15222. Formal interviews for these limited positions will 
be forthcoming.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanOctober 7, 1980
6| Steve Conrw}
Genetic engineering at CMU
Precautions stressed in labs
vmuKjE *iw*t Chen* ttRoNze uwktion 
im bnue*. m-L, So\> am tn< -mis uttle
&& Vm VOU To fchW EXAtf, RO& it KhttlEj nm> 'too'u. Wh Your, exah evewTWE, WHETHER v(00 STUDIED ft. KiOT !
continued from page 4
DNA experiments have long been a topic 
of debate. The goals of this controversey 
were stirred once again by a recent occurence
at the University of California at San Diego. 
Ian Kennedy, a UC biologist, allegedly 
cloned a virus that was banned by Federal 
Enviromental guidelines. Kennedy resigned 
last week, some nine months after sup
posedly cloning the semliki forest virus. 
He denied any wrongdoing, saying his leav
ing was necessary, in light of certain things 
I want to do in science.
Last June, the U.S. Supreme Court 
helped bring on the age of commercially - 
distributed recombinant DNA products. 
Ananda Chakrabarty, now of the University 
of Illinois Medical Center, developed a bac
terium that could help clean up oil spills for 
General Electric, then his employer. GE 
refused to sell the bacterium until it could be 
patented. The Supreme Court decision 
referred to an organism that was not con
structed using recombinant DNA tech
niques , bacteria - carrying genes of other 
organisms may fall into the category of new 
life forms. Said one noted gene splicer, The 
main benefit will be for lawyers. They will 
be representing companies while the courts
figure out what the consequence will be.
Dr. Woolford beleives that, the Kennedy 
incident has been blown out of proportion. I 
recently spoke'with an expert in Kennedys 
field who claimed that the danger of 
Kennedys blunder has been overly public
ized. Thousands of scientists all over the 
country are following the rules. These rules 
have been established by committees of 
scientists and by the federal government. 
Any research project that is federally funded 
must adhere to the current guidelines.
Woolfords point is illustrated by the pre
cautions which are being taken in setting up 
recombinant DNA laboratory at CMU. 
Molecular biologists, Drs. Jones and Willi
ams and their respective graduate students 
have spent months working on the lab. 
Their efforts will be checked by a committee 
of scientists from CMU and the University 
of Pittsburgh upon the labs completion. 
Woolford fetls that the monitoring proce
dures that the scientific community is tak
ing are sufficient. After all, Kennedys own 
graduate students were the first to report 
strange occurences in his lab.
Some information provided by the College 
Press Service (CPS).
Erotic Week in peril
X-Rated movies banned in 3 Illinois Universities
(CPS) Students at three Illinois univer
sities have been prohibited by the states 
Board of Regents from showing X-rated 
movies on campus because the people of 
Illinois are opposed to that kind of thing 
taking place in university buildings.
The ban, imposed by the Board in its July 
meeting, has stirred rumblings of protest at 
each of the three schoolsIllinois State Uni
versity, Northern Illinois and Sangamon 
State. So much opposition has been 
recorded at Northern Ulinios that student 
Regent Mike Ross plans to introduce a 
motion to rescind the resolution when the 
Board meets later this week.
Im fairly confident that well get this 
thing resolved one way or the other. Ive 
spoken to some regents and I think theyll 
change their minds, Ross predicted. At 
the very worst, the resolution will be dele
gated to just an advisory one.
If Ross is unsuccessful and the ban is 
cemented into policy, a strong tradition at 
Northern Illinois would be in peril. For the 
past nine years, students there have held an 
Erotic Week. During that week, they
would have an X-rated film festival and see 
such hit pomo attractions such as Deep 
Throat, The Devil in Miss Jones, and 
Behind the Green Door.
But Ross and others argue there is more at 
stake than just the luxury' of students seeing 
dirty movies.
Forget the films. The issue here is choice, 
and when you start allowing the regents to 
make choices and judgements about what 
entertainment were allowed to see, then you 
wonder whats next, Ross asserts. I would 
worry about them (the regents) taking away 
our right to hear a certain speaker because 
they may disagree with his or her views.
Even if the board backs off from its July 
position, and decides only to use the prohi
bition as a recommended position, presi
dents at the three schools would be in a 
tough bind, Ross claims.
The presidents would be an administra
tively awkward position, he predicts. 
Theyll feel compelled to go by what the 
regents believe, and we think the president 
has just as little right as the regents to 
enforce this ban.
To make sure students will have their 
Erotic Week as well as the right to visual
ize their sexual fantasies on the screen, the 
Northern Illinois Student Association has 
asked the American Civil Liberties Union to 
sue the regents for a violation of the stu
dents constitutional rights.
There has been a flurry of campus legal 
actions related to the use of school facilities 
for showing X-rated movies, which of 
course is a generally lucrative fundraising
technique for campus groups.
Last May, two Harvard students were 
arrested the day after showing Deep 
Throat at a university dorm. The Civil 
Liberites Union of Massachusetts filed a fed
eral suit in their defense, claiming their free
dom of speech had been abridged.
In March, two University of Houston stu
dents were called to testify in an obscenity 
case in which the film Barbara Brodcast 
was sold to an undercover police officer
TARTAN NEWS STAFF
Meets every Monday at 8:00 PM 
Room 50, Skibo
Current staff and interested writers 
are encouraged to attend
tftON CITY REGULAR 
IRON CITY LIGHT 
SCHLITZ 
BUO
SCHMIDTS
SCHMIOTS BOCK DARK 
CHAMPALE WHITE 
OR PINK 
STROHS 
6ENESEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHLITZ
BALLANTINE ALE 
MtCHELOB REGULAR 
MICHELOB LIGHT 
PABST
PABST EXTRA LIGHT 
MILLER 
MILLER LIGHT 
COLT 45
GENESEE CREAM ALE 
WEIOEMAN
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak Subs
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM - 2 AM
QUARTS MUGS PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 OIFFERENT ORAFT BEERS 
MILLER. MICHELOB M0LS0N ALE. HEINEKEN.
STROHS AND SCHTZ MALT 
One different 16 oz. 6 pk featured each week
SCHTZ * PABST 
SCHLITZ MALT * STROHS 
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
 SPECIALTY ITEMS *
FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES-PIZZA SERVED TIL 4 AM 
HOT DOCS CHOICE OF 12 OIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 
35 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES 
IMPORTS
OriginalZT HOT 00G
BECKS LIGHT OR OARK
CARLSbIjRG MALT 
Denmark
OORT HANSA Germany 
HOF BRAU Germany 
FISC HM GOLO France 
HOLSTEN LAGER Germany 
ST PAULI GIRL Germany 
SPATEN Germany 
RIGNES SPECIAL Norway 
SWAN LAGER Australia 
BASS ALE Enaland 
MAC KESON STOUT 
Enaland
LOWINtRAU LIGHT OR 
DARK Germany
WHITEBREAO PALE ALEFnnliftd
n plr^.Ca eageCrrCmhoalevaiu
* RIGNES Nerway
 00S EQUIS Menco
* PERONl Maly
 GUINESS STOUT Ireland
* GROLSCHE Heiland 
 GOSSE R Austria
* SAN MIGUEL PNIIpinn 
 KIRIN Japan
* MOL SON ALE Canada
* KRAKUS Peland
* HEINEKEN LT  OK Heiland
* FOSTER S LAGER Australia AMO MANY OTHERS
HOT 00G SHOPS INC 21-7388 or 621 -1185
3*01 FORBES AV. (OAKLAND) P6N., PA. 1321 3
A PTIQT
ENGINEERING
DRAFTING
SUPPLIES
355-0444{
OPEN SAT. 10 to 5 P M_
TOP NOTCH
ART MATERIALS. INC 
819 PENN AVE v PGH )
Protectingjomseif against is no big (ML
Ift angular part of living.
Por millions o women, monthly brea self exammaon to routine But for many others, it isn't Why Because some women are afraid they might 
"find somsthing"If you're afraid, remember that 80S of all breast lumps are not canoer Ybur own fear to what 
you should be more oonoernsd atai Because it oan prevent you fron dweovenng canoer earfy when t to most curable BK more often, it empty prevents you from having the peace of mind that comes from knowing you're alright -
If checking ypr brearte to not a refutar part of ttvtng for you. oouaat your doctor or your kcal American Cancer Society Un for information
American Cancer Society

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
A summer in Oxford: more than just a trip
by Maureen Brennan Mrs. Madge Clark was responsible for StairGood morning, girls. case j bin especially liked No. 5 because we
Grumble, grumble, groan. Good mom- made our own beds every morning, 
ing, Madge. This is summer vacation, isnt Oxford, England is not a university. Its a
it? And I m really getting up willingly to get town that contains 34 colleges, each with its
to breakfast by 8:00? Must not be home in own president, faculty, and grounds (not to
Cleveland, that s for sure. I check the view be confused with the crass but synonymous
out the window, just to be sure this is really American term campus). Each college is a
happening-there s the chapel clock alright; separate entity, complete with living quarTrinity College, Oxford. Wow. ters, dining hall, porter, and gardner. The
Beds changed today, girls. So would you latter is generally attired in a tweed jacket,
mind terribly if I didnt water the flower tie, and English cap, and can be found pushboxes until tomorrow? ing a wheelbarrow of dirt or riding a
Kathy grins as I poke my head out the machine which cuts the grass and then
door of my room. She s in our sitting room, presses it with a heavy roller. Someones
reading Pound s Hugh Mauberly. I hate been tending most of these grounds for 800
these people who can function before 10 years now.
AM. I m sure the flowers will be fine, Many erf the colleges have some unique
Madge. Good Lord, its rained every day attraction as well--Christ Church Cathedral
since we got here. This is the wettest and (Christ Church College) is the smallest
coldest summer Englands had since 1907. cathedral in England; Magdelen College
When Kathy Krummert and I do some- Deer Park provides a natural habitat for its
thing, we do it right. deer; and St. Johns College is known for its
Imagine, a week ago today I didnt know extensive gardens,
what it was like to subsist on raisins and Together, the colleges comprise what the
graham crackers for 18 hours of travel. One average American pictures when he thinks
plane, two buses, one taxi, two trams; wed of Oxford University-ancient stone buildcome via Cleveland-Boston-Shannon- ings, cathedrals, magnificent gardens,
Prestwick to save money. And then had to manicured lawns, and richly clad young
find our way from Glasgow, Scotland to intellectuals discussing politics over tea and
Oxford, England. scones.
By now we were surprisingly well settled Each summer, T-shirt clad American colinto our 16th century three room suite; the lege students join the throngs of tourists at
bathroom might be three stories down at the Oxford.The University of Oklahoma law
foot of the staircase, but the firerplace, school has a five week program at Queens
antique furniture, window seats and flower College; Georgetown University Business
boxes make up for it. And of course theres School runs a five week program at Oriel
Madge. In a time-honored tradition all the College; we were part of a six week program
colleges employ a scout for each staircase, on literature at Trinity College, sponsored
usually a middle-aged woman, who wakes by the University of Massachusetts. Approxthe undergrads up each morning, imately 125 attended this year, everyone
changes their linens and cleans their rooms. from English to Engineering majors, a
eigners everywhere. Burgerland is begin
ning to fill up; Wimpy Bar isnt quite as 
busy. Oxford University T-shirts and 
wool sweaters adorn shop windows. Woolworths has a special on the digestive biscuits 
to which we are now addicted, so we each 
buy a package for the one and a half hour 
trip to Stratford-upon-Avon tomorrow. 
This week we see As You Like It at The 
Royal Shakespeare Theatre, preceeded by a 
lecture tonight at Trinity by Stanley Wells; 
Anne Barton would be lecturing before we 
saw Hamlet next week.
We elbowed our way back through the 
crowded streets. A line for the bus had 
formed along the sidewalk in front of The 
Ashmolean Museum. Downtown Manhat
tan, the local disco, would attract those 
visitors who stayed overnight; The New 
Theatre would attract the local punk 
Want to come? crowd. Otherwise, the stores would close
Punting? and the streets would be empty by 5:00.
Yeah, on the Thames. You know, the Slipping back through the gates of Tringondola-type boats where one person stands ity, we greeted the porter and checked for our 
and pushes it along with a long pole? mail. A bus-load of Italian tourists had folIt sounded like a lot more fun than tea to lowed us in; they would take pictures of
me, but I had my first tutorial for my Trinity Chapel, walk through our garden,
D.H.Lawrence class at 5:00, and I still had and comment on the bust of Cardinal John
Women in Love to finish. In our weekly Neumann, who graduated from Trinity,
class of six students, I might get by without Then theyd head over to see Exeter College
having finished the reading, but when it was across the street.lt would be a one day whirlgoing to be just the tutor and me for an wind tour of Oxford,
hour, Id better pass up the punting. Kathy and I skirted the edges of their
Classes meet in the sitting rooms of the group as we walked back to Staircase 17, No. 
tutors own living quarters at Trinity. If you 5. It was so nice not to have cameras around
missed a meeting you could be sure to run our necks. We lit the gas heater in the fireinto them at mealtime. Dinner is a four place and setded down to read. Madge had
course meal served at 7:00; the head waiter, left flowers for us from her garden at home.
Malcolm, never stopped smiling. Six weeks wasnt going to be nearly enough.
Broad St. crosses the central avenue of 
tourism just past Balliol College, so we 
headed off in that direction. There are forhandful of English professors, and a heart 
surgeon from Texas. The courses were 
taught by dons, actual English faculty.
Kathy and I headed out for a walk after 
breakfast; we passed the porters lodge and 
through the main gates of Trinity to find 
ourselves on Broad Street. To our left is the 
original Blackwells Booksellers, one erf the 
Bodleian Library' buildings, and the Sheldonian Theatre. Directly across from us is 
Parkers Bookstore, The Paperback Book
store, and The Childrens Bookshop. I fig
ure if you cant find it here it must not exist.
Going to Tea today, Kathy? Tea is at 
4:00 every day in the Beer Cellar, under the 
dining hall. It is very hot, and very strong; 
one of our purchases today was going to be 
Pearl Drops.
Actually, Jean and Mark and I were 
planning to go punting this afternoon.
Homecoming
1980
The stnct, minimal participation High
lander games of Homecomings past have 
changed. Fun for everyone is the new theme.
Just after mid-terms let out on Friday, 
October 17, everybody can get together on 
the cut and start the first vacation of the
semester.
The CMU frisbee team will be there with 
50 frisbees to toss amongst whoever is wil
ling. Roller skates will be rented next to 
Doherty Hall for the energetic types. 
Helium balloons will be given to the mel
low soles, and a couple innovauve games, 
such as team pick up sticks with carpet rolls 
will be waiting for the experimental types.
Hopefully, there will be something therr 
for everyone, and a thousand people will 
mingle and have fun.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanOctober 7, 1980
A View from the LeftIs America heading for another Cold War?
by Steve Rayshich
The other day, while reading of the IranIraq conflict in the newspaper I stumbled 
across the following quote: In the short 
term, the Iranian-Iraqi conflict seems to 
have set back chances for an early resolution 
of the hostage crisis, officials said. Sound 
familiar? Officials have been saying this 
for eleven months now as Hostage Crisis, 
Day 300 changes into Hostage Crisis, 
Year One and ABC Latenight (The show 
for hostage coverage!) threatens to overtake 
Meet the Press as the longest running show 
in television history. Somehow, I get the 
feeling those hostages may never leave Iran.
Americans react to such comments with 
righteous indignation and outrage. Some
thing must be done! Then what?, I ask. The 
u uth of the matter is the fate of the hostages 
is out of our hands. The prices of OPECs 
oil ate also beyond our control and the 
Soviets seem firmly entrenched and comfor
table in Afghanistan. By following our pres
ent course of action the only solution to our 
Mid-East problems seems to be armed agres
sion, show the Third World were willing to 
run roughshod over their cultures and 
homelands for another forty years!
The desire for increased military might 
and nationalism has taken hold in Ameri
can society; Congress registered four million 
Americans for war,, big business sold mil
lions of Fuck you, Iran and Mickey 
Mouse Defends Democracy bumper 
stickers, and Ronald Reagan emerged as the 
leading candidate for the American 
Presidency.
President Carter, while shattering thirty 
years accomplishment of detente and estab
lishing only the second peacetime draft reg
istration in American history (The first 
preceded World War Two) last January , 
called for Americans to rally together and 
show the rest of the world were not over-thehill quite yet. Our President declared Arab 
oil in the Persian Gulf our vital interest 
(Evokes memories of Manifest Destiny  It 
was in our vital interest to take California, 
Arizona, and New Mexico from the Mexi
cans in 1848.) and claimed wed go to war to 
defend our right to pump that oil, and 
Americans have bought it!
Americans embraced the Hate Iran cam-: 
paign with uncharacteristic glee. Bumper 
stickers were sold, speeches made, outrage 
expressed. There is nothing American.politicians love more than a foreign enemy to 
attract the masss frustrations and hatred in 
time of economic depression. Iran just hap
pened to come along in time.
Lets not forget the Soviets and their invol
vement in Afghanistan! They too ar our 
enemies; the Communist Threat is back! 
A few weeks ago I watched a right ;wing 
Protestant religious organizations TV pres
entation on the horrors of Communism. 
Funny, I think I heard the same quotes from 
the Moonies in March! Maybe the two 
groups use the same speech writer?! These 
arch-conservative politopreachers also aired 
a special on our defense weaknesses; 
imagine a religious organization clamoring 
for more missiles, more missiles! To 
refresh your memories, the last time religion 
played any serious role in American politics 
(JFKs 1960 campaign excluded) was during 
the Thirties when Father Coughlin 
launched his infamous diatribes against 
FDR and creeping socialism. The step 
backwards is not necessarily a good one.
That is the core of the problem; politically 
and socially, America has become confused 
and is stumbling blindly back into the Cold 
War and the mindlessness of the Red Scares 
of the early Fifties. President Carter has 
calmly discarded detente like a worn out suit 
and re-established the Soviet Union as Pub
lic Enemy Number One. Did you notice that 
when the Soviets invaded Afghanistan our 
President made no effort to seek negotia
tions but almost immediately threatened 
war? America once again finds itself stirring 
to war.
And of course, the Pentagon claims we are 
not ready, we need more bombs, more mis
siles, faster tanks, smarter soldiers. The Pentagon has a highly developed ability for 
failing to see the forest through the trees. 
Ever since last weeks Titan fiasco in Arkan
sas the high brass has published an unend
ing series of reports proclaiming our 
purported nuclear inferiority to the Soviets. 
They fear a Soviet first strike could very 
possibly cripple all 1053 of our land based 
missiles. The whiz kids and old soldiers in 
the Pentagon worry about this. I dont; by 
my calculations, any first strike powerful 
enough to destroy 1053 nuclear missiles in 
their silos also might just happen to be pow
erful enough to blow the Land of the Free 
right off the face of the map! Dont bother 
with me, though; Im always getting hung 
up on petty details.
More defense, though is the cry. Every 
Presidential candidate uses it. Speaking of 
candidates, what more can you say about the 
confused mood of the American people than 
the fact that by this time next year (if were 
still here next year) Ronald Reagan may be 
the next U.S. President. If Carters threats 
and calls for nationalism plunge us back 
into the Cold War and the paranoia of the 
Fifties then surely Ronald Reagan will 
return us to the Dark Ages. Have you heard 
some of the policies this man wants to 
pursue when he takes office? Regulation of 
unions, de-regulation of business and indus
try', abolishment of the ERA, abolishment of 
Miranda rights, etc., etc., etc. Ronald Rea
gan seems determined to retract the Nine
teenth Ammendment, the New Deal, and all 
the Civil Rights actions of the Fifties and 
Sixties in one sweeping blow! Ronald Rea
gan isnt prejudiced; it just never occurred to 
him that cutting welfare might harm the 
poor, the black, and the hungary.
Computer Science 
and Electrical Engineering 
Majors
San Francisco Bay Area company developing state of 
the art computer software and hardware for integrated 
voice and data office communications systems seeks 
talented individuals interested in:
SOFTWARE
 Operating Systems
 Real Time Distributed Computing
 Data Communications
 Office Automation Applications
 Office of the Future Applications
 Diagnostics
 Software Tools
HARDWARE
 Microprocessor Applications
 Digital and Analog Design
 Telephony
 Data Communications
ROLM Corporation, founded in 1969 has grown 
50%-100% each year and currently has 3700 
employees. ROLMs Telecommunications 
Division is the leading independent supplier of 
computer controlled voice and data business 
communications systems.
Included in ROLMs outstanding benefits 
package is a three month paid sabbatical after 
six years (and every seven years thereafter), 
company paid tuition and time off for graduate 
study at Stanford University. Employees can take 
advantage of flexible working hours to use 
ROLMs million dollar recreational facility which 
includes tennis courts, racquetball courts, 
basketball, exercise room, volleyball, swimming 
pools, par course, sauna, steam room and 
jacuzzi.
On Campus Interviews 
Monday, October 27
Meet with working software and hardware engineers 
from ROLM in the Placement Center See our Company 
literature in the Placement Center.
If unable to attend an 
interview, send resume to:
Gibson Anderson
Manager, Recruiting & Training
ROLM Corporation
4900 Old Ironsides Drive M/S 560
Santa Clara, CA 95050
We are an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.
CORPORATION
TRY DRESSER ATLAS FOR^WORLD
Electrical Engineers Mechanical Engineers
Physicists
If youre ready to begin your technical career, but arent looking forward to a pencil and paper pushing existence, we want to tell you about a highly unusual profession.
Essentially, were the people who make it possible for energy producers to 
evaluate the productivity of well sites. Our equipment measures resistivity, 
conductivity, acoustic travel time, radioactivity and various other physical 
characteristics of the well bore.
As a Jr. Field Engineer, youll undertake extensive training including 
supervised field work and 12 weeks of classroom instruction before being 
promoted to Field Engineer.
At this stage, your career adventure really begins. You'll be assigned a logging unit, crew and company car. Your generous base salary will be sup
plemented by monthly bonuses based on the income your work produces. 
Your progress will be in your hands on a job that Is tough, demanding and 
long. But if you're interested in accumulating real-world experience fast, theres nothing like it.
We offer full company benefits, relocation assistance and a variety of 
attractve locations, including the career active Rocky Mountain and Sunbelt areas. Enjoy the kind of personal recognition that comes 
from a high profile career like this one. To find out more, make arrangements with your college placement office to visit our 
recruiter on: Friday. October 17. 1980.If you aie unable to visit with us, send your resume detailing your background to:
Manager, Recruitment & College Relations P O Box 6504 
Houston, Texas 77001
An equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

October 7, 1980The TartanPage 9
An
Introduction 
to Robots
If you think robots will be the magical 
product of a future generations expertise 
and know-how and that you will never live 
long enough to reap the benefits of elec
tronic efficiency, surprise! Many people 
probably felt the same way about computers 
fifty years ago. But like computers, robots do 
exist now.
CMU and Westinghouse Corporation 
have pooled academic and industrial resour
ces to form the Robotics Institute, working 
toward robot advancement now and for the 
future.
The three-member board heading the 
institute is composed of: Dr. Raj Reddy, 
director, professor of computer science and 
specializing in artificial intelligence; Dr. 
Angel Jordan, dean of the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology; and Dr. Daniel Berg, dean of 
the Mellon College of Science. They are 
backed by a staff of 12 faculty members, 12 
graduate students, and 12 research faculty; 
involvement extends through the Computer 
Science, Mechanical Engineering, and Elec
trical Engineering departments, as well as 
Engineering and Public Policy, Statistics, 
GSIA, and Humanities and Social Sciences.
Westinghouse is funding $1 million a 
year for at least the next five years. Participa
tion from two or three additional large com
panies providing similar amounts is 
expected. Other companies may join in the 
efforts as affiliates. Strong possibilities for 
funding are the Advanced Research Projects 
Agency, a strong supporter of computer 
science, the Office of Naval Research, and 
the National Aeronautics Space Agency.
Until the institute can be moved to its 
permanent home, the Bureau of Mines 
building which has been sold to the Univer
sity, 12,500 feet of space has been borrowed 
from various departments. When the insti
tute moves to the new building, 60,000 feet 
of space will be available.
The United States is joining in a techno
logical thrust begun by Japan and several 
Western European countries. Robots are 
now being used in automobile factories to 
perform repetitive, assembly line tasks. 
Japan, the world leader in robot manufac
ture, uses one-half of the robots now in exist
ence, and will even be using them to 
manufacture more robots. The expected 
uses of robots are many, ranging from 
industrial labor to white-collar problem
solving. They will be useful in dangerous 
areas such as coal-mining, space and deep 
sea exploration.
CMU will be working to advance the 
machines to the second-generation level, 
that is, to the stage that they will be able to 
see and think as a result of pattern recogni
tion capabilities.
The World in a Week: a summary of world events
~t {, ) )
Gay and 
under 21?
YOU SHOULD GET A COPY OF THE
GAY YOUTH SPECIAL ISSUE
Of the October 1980nut
rhe Persian Gulf War appears to be 
evolving into a longer, more intense conflict 
than originally anticipated. The original 
Iraqian thrust into Iranian territory has 
been checked by Iranian forces. Major cities 
in the Iranian province of Khuzistan, which 
contains virtually ll of Irans oil wealth, 
have been under seige but have provided stiff 
resistance and have not fallen.
The US has cautioned Iraq that it could 
not condone the annexation of Iranian terri
tory. The US has claimed neutrality, as has 
the USSR, in the conflict, though it has 
bolstered Saudi Arabias defense by sending 
them planes that serve as an early warning 
system to allow the Saudis to prepare in case 
of an Iranian strike.
It is believed that the war will not cause 
much hardship because world stockpiles of 
oil are sufficient to absorb the impact. Saudi 
Arabia has agreed to step up oil production 
to help compensate for the decrease in 
supply. Iran lias guaranteed to keep the vital 
Strait of Hormuz open through which most 
Persian Gulf oil is transported. The US and 
its allies are working to form an interna
tional task force to protect Western oil inter
ests and maintain the straits.
Prepara troy sessions for a conferance on 
security and cooperation in Europe have 
reached a deadlock due to Soviet attempts to 
curtail the time dedicated to discussing the 
issues of Afghanistan and human rights. In 
six weeks 35 nations will attend the Madrid 
conference to review how nations have fol
lowed the Helsinki Accord.
Panama had its first partisan elections 
since a military coup twelve years ago.
ITie Swedish navy has been unsuccessful 
in trying to force a mystery submarine to 
surface that has been in their waters for over 
two weeks. They believe the sub is still there, 
possibly escaping detection by remaining 
on the ocean floor. The Swedes suspect it to 
be a Soviet sub.
'Hie new labor unions in Poland have 
called for one hour work stoppage to protest 
the governments lack of action on promised 
wage increases.
The US is trying to resolve differences 
between Turkey and Greece in an attempt to 
allow Greece back into NATO; otherwise 
US bases in Greece will be closed.
The battleship Kirov, the Soviets first 
nuclear powered ship is joining its North
ern Fleet in the north Atlantic.
The English labor party, which opposes 
Margaret Thatchers election, has had a 
chaotic convention. They have been unable 
to choose a method for selecting a candidate. 
They have taken a swing to the left includ
ing a call for total world nuclear 
disarmament.
A gold rush is under way in the Brazillian 
Amazon where over $50 million has already 
been found.
Independant island nations of the South 
Pacific are stengthening ties with Asia 
instead of try ing to get US aid.
A US arms sale to Somalia has been 
approved on the condition that the US 
recieves verified assurance that no Somal
ian forces remain in Ethiopia.
Israel is blocking some aid from Ameri
can organizations intended for Palestineans 
claiming these organizations are anti-Israel 
and are supporting radical Arab politicians.
Soviet astronauts have set an endurance 
record of 175 days in orbit.
Over 650 deaths are reported from recent 
flooding in Bangledesh.
American officials will go to Vietnam to 
try to locate MIAs who may still be alive.
Big business in West Germany appears to 
favor incumbent Chancelor Helmit 
Schmidt and his social Democratic party 
over the conservative Christian Democratic 
candidate Franz Josef Stauss in the election 
this Sunday.
There have been several European bomb
ings by a Neo-Nazi organization with sus
pected PLO ties.
Ten key former supporters of Mao, 
including his widow, may face the death 
penalty when they go on trial for treasenous 
activities as well as attempting to murder 
Mao.
Francesco Dossiga recently resigned as 
Prime Minister of the Italian government 
when his economic program was rejected by 
the Parliament by one vote. He represented 
the 39th government since WWII.
The preceding report was compiled by Rus
sell Howard. Information was taken from 
last weeks issues of The New York Times.
Pittsburgh's only gay journal featuring 
stories, interview, a special resources 
listing, and photos for the gay or lesbian 
under 21
NOW ON SALE A T OVER 
150 NEWS STANDS OR 
CALL 361-8704
COMliC COALEXEilCE
Where does science fiction end and 
reality begin? Its all in the minds eye. 
Be it the creative imagination used to 
produce Star Wars, The Black Hole, and 
The Empire Strikes Back, or the more 
scientific approach of hypothesis test
ing and experimentation, the distant 
galaxies of science fiction coalesce into 
reality with the advanced technology 
now being developed at a company
called TRW.
It was the Defense and Space Systems 
Group of TRW who made possible the 
Viking Lander biological experiment 
which looked for life on Mars and the 
High Energy Astronomical Observatory 
which looks for quasars, pulsars and 
black holes in deep space. Profession
als at TRW-DSSG are now involved in 
such impressive technologies as high
energy lasers, communications systems, 
plus other future projects still consider
ed science fiction.
A company called TRW will be on 
campus...
NOVEMBER 3-4
to interview graduates in scien
tific and technical disciplines.
Contact the placement office to sche
dule your appointment. If unable to 
meet with us, send your resume to:
College Relations 
Bldg. R5/B196 CMU 10/80 
One Space Park 
Redondo Beach, CA 90278
"TjDI^
  Wr Hr Eau*"Opportunity Employer M/F/H
DEFENSE AND SPACE SYSTEMS GROUP ENERGY SYSTEMS GROUP

---------------------------------------------------

'OO prt
17CWETS \=*j J ?a Im
_CARi/E(-MELl^ wUVBUSfT/-j I SK10 B/VUROoli I j
FONPED VfACllVlTIf5 FEE  1 1 1 1

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.Danko comes to CMU
Carsickness stands out in Coffeehouse program
Please dont sit down, were a dance band 
by Staii Chapman
By the time Joe Soap, the lead vocalist and 
guitarist for Carsickness introduced the 
band to the restless Wherrett Room crowd, 
one or more unknown person(s) had already 
emptied their stomachs over the edge of a 
long beige couch in the nearby Highlander 
room.
Carsickness, who would be followed that 
night by The Five and Black Market Baby, 
clearly put on the most impressive show of 
the evening. Running through two to two 
and a half minute versions of Panic, 
Turn to Stone, Modem Knowledge, 
Industrial Discipline and about fifteen 
other songs, the five man band had the
appreciative audience dancing and singing 
along during many of their better tunes. 
The bands raw, eccentric beats mixed with 
the excellant guitar and vocal work of Joe 
Soap to produce a very original rock sound 
that was clearly not what many of the stu
dents who wandered in to the Wherrett 
Room had expected to hear.
While occasional songs suffered from a 
lack of organization, Carsickness displayed 
true talent that could one day carry them 
very far. But does the group really want to go 
that far? Do they even expecty to go very far? 
Apparendy Joe Soap doesnt think so:
Were trying to do something different, 
something that has never been done before.
By getung organized and accepted we hope 
to create a better climate for rock and roll in 
the city. We want to change the club owners 
attitude towards the music they put in the 
clubs. More bands, cheaper drinks, cheaper 
cover. By charging less to play, by using 
cheaper advertising we hope to reduce costs 
for everyone. I expect we will stay together 
for at least another three or four years, until 
we feel it stagnating.
Carsickness has been together in their 
present form since last February, they have 
already released a single and are hoping to 
get an album out by the start erf next year. 
They have recendy been playing in Buffalo, 
Toronto and a lot of places in Ohio. As Joe 
says: We dont want to be known as a local 
band, not in the extent that we could make a 
living out of it. We dont want to be another 
one of the asshole cover bands who have 
been around here for years. We have our 
own style of playing. We keep trying to 
improve this style of playing. Big business 
and the media will always turn whatever is 
rebellious and new in to a money making 
thing. I think our music is more than just a 
fashion thing.
The statement of purpose from the 1980 
Activities Board Constitution reads ^s fol
lows: Coffeehouse: To provide free or low 
cost entertainment in various fields. Stu
dents should be able to enjoy sitting in small 
groups in a quiet atmosphere with low key
Curtaincall
Pittsburgh Opera opens its 1980-81 sea
son this Thursday Night, October 9, with a 
production of Carlisle Floyds American 
Opera, Susannah.
Set in the hills of Tennessee, Susannah 
presents a stark and immediate portrayal of 
religious hypocrisy, naivete, human frailty 
and a crude, almost perverse, sense of irony 
and justice.
Susannah is of special appeal to modem 
audiences because of its commitment todragroups as opposed to louder concerts.
Black Market Baby, the last group to play 
on Saturday, September 27, presented a 13 
song set that was interesting but too loud. 
Thje band could be clearly heard in the 
fraternity quadrangle even though the show 
was in the Skibo Wherrett room. Approxi
mately 75 fans were in the x< Dm at the begin
ning of the show but the loudness of the 
band soon drove all but the most dedicated 
fans away. Relying heavily on basic rock 
riffs and distortion, Black Market Babys 
music still has a long way to go. While 
songs like Backseat Sally and Americas 
Youth were interesting and enjoyable, 
most of the groups material suffers from a 
lack of being anything new. A hundred 
bands have done what they did that night 
and they did it a lot quieter.
All in all, the Coffeehouse programs 
experiment with the so called New Wave 
bands was a success. The crowd for the night 
was 2 to 3 time larger than most Coffeehouse 
shows. While the Five and Black Market 
Baby seem destined to wallow in obscurity 
for a long time, Carsickness showed a sur
prising amount of skill and originality. On 
October 10, Carsickness will be playing in 
Charlies 10 cent Saloon with The Nelsons, 
a band from Akron Ohio. If you were at the 
show in the Wherrett Room and you want 
to check out the band again this would be a 
good opportunity.
mauc consistency and character develop
ment. Susannah premiered in 1956, and 
remains one of the foremost operas of 
American heritage.
Pittsburgh Operas production will be 
directed by Floyd, the operas composer, and 
will be conducted by Christopher Keene of 
the New York City Opera. Patricia Craig, 
who has performed with the New York City 
Opera and the Metropolitan Opera. Hill 
sing the tide role.
Call 281-0912 for tickets
A.B. Coffeehouse will present musicians Chris Spheeris and Paul Voudoris, Saturday, October 11 at 
9:30 p.m. in the Wherrett Room. Solo artist Michael Connor will open the show. Spheeris and Coudoris 
have just released their first album, described by Variety magazine as "a refreshing mostly acoustic duo 
with material marked by contemplative lyrics and melodies in the Seals and Crofts vein... both know 
how to use their instruments as support for their gentle lead and harmony vocals . The show is free and 
refreshments will be served.
by Ted Smits
The A.B. Concerts Committee will pres
ent Rick Danko and the Band of Friends 
with special guest Papa John Creach this 
Sunday, October 12 at 8 PM in the Skibo 
Ballroom. General admission tickets are $2 
with a CMU I.D.
One of the Founding members of The 
Band, Danko was bassist and vocalist for the 
group throughout its years as one of the top 
rock and roll attractions in the country. 
Originally formed as the back-up group for 
the newly electrified Bob Dylan, the Band 
received instant acclaim with the release of 
their Music From Big Pink album in 1970. 
Music From Big Pink showed a new 
approach to rock and roll that was heralded 
by critics and fans alike. Songs like The 
Weight and I Shall Be Released com
bined Southern Blues, Country-Western 
and basic rock influences to create a new 
sound that was to be characterized as true 
American rock and roll.
Throughout the Seventies the Band 
remained one of the premier American rock 
acts. Hits such as The Shape Im In, 
Ophelia, The Night They Drove Old 
Dixie Down, Stage Fright and others 
kept the Band on the top of the charts. In 
1973, the Band rejoined Bob Dylan for a 
cross country tour that resulted in a double 
album and signified Dylans return to rock 
and roll. In 1977, the Band decided to break 
up because of the solo aspirations of the 
groups members. A lavish farewell concert 
held on Thanksgiving was released as a film 
and an album entitled The Last Waltz.
Among the friends who showed up to join 
the band were Neil Young, Muddy Waters, 
Eric Clapton, Ringo Starr, Van Morrison, 
Ron Wood and others.
On his current tour, Danko is playing 
with guitarist Blondie Chaplin and possibly 
former Band pianist Richard Manuel. His 
shows ioclude a number of Band songs as 
well as the same basic rock and roll that 
made the Band so famous. Danko has 
released one solo which features appearan
ces by Eric Clapton, Robbie Robertson, 
Ronnie Wood and Don Sahrn.
Opening the show will be 63 year old 
violinist Papa John Creach. Formerly a 
member of the Jefferson Airplane and Hot 
Tuna, Papa John had been playing the fid
dle since he was 10 years old. 
the Thirties, Fourues, and Fifties Papa John 
played the fiddle in just about every conceiv
able situation. Cruise ships, hotels, bars, 
Rhythm and Blues bands, Papa 
played wherever he could make enough 
money to keep on living. In October 1970 
Papa John joined the Jefferson Airplane 
and was instantly accepted by the groups 
psychedelic rock fans. He stayed on when 
the group became the Jefferson Starship and 
also played with Hot Tuna.
He has released a number of solo albums 
and continues to tour heavily even though 
he is 63 years old. The combination of Rick 
Danko and Papa John Creach should pro
duce an excellent concert, especially in an 
intimate area like the Skibo Ballroom. The 
$2 general admission tickets can be obtained 
at the Skibo Information Desk.Rick Danko, formerly of The Band, will play in Skibo Ballroom Sunday, October 12

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanOctober 7, 1980
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
PROCTER AND GAMBLE 
R&D AND PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
Interview dates: October 28 and 29
Sign up at Placement 
Office
October 14
CONCERTflLE
by Alan Spero
For the first time in over four years, the 
.guitar wizadry of Jeff Beck will be returning 
o Pittsburgh as DiCesaie - Engler Produc
tions presents the legendary axeman at the 
Stanley Theatre, Wednesday, October 15.
Beck is touring in support of his latest 
album, There and Back, his first studio 
ielease since Wired in 1976.
Beck first came to public attention in 1965 
when he took over as lead guitarist for the 
Yardbirds, replacing Eric Clapton. His 
widespread acclaim as a musician and the 
Yardbirds knack for turning out trend - 
setting songs (Shapes of Things, Mr. 
Youre A Better Man Than I, Train Kept 
A - Rollin) kept him in the public spo
tlight for several years. Afterwards he formed 
the short - lived (by his own choice) Jeff Beck 
Group with Rod Stewart on vocals and 
Ronnie Wood on Bas guitar. The classic 
Truth album was their first release in 1968.
In 1975, after drifting in and out of several 
line - ups, Beck released Blow By Blow. This 
album, quickly followed up by the release of 
Wired, displayed Beck's new musical direc
tion of mixing rock leads with jazz back
drops. It also established his association 
with keyboardists Jan Hammer (Blue 
Wind) and Max Middleton (Freeway 
Jam). There and Back confirms and 
updates Becks tendency towards the fusion - 
rock he started playing on Blow By Blow. 
Jeff Bedes appearance at the Stanley Thea
tre is a definite Big Event in Pittsburghs 
musical calendar this year.
Opening for Beck will be Clevelands 
Michael Stanley Band, touring in support of 
their latest release, Heartland.
Wizards
Guest Column 
by Kim Kunkle
Wizards, an animated film by Ralph 
Bakshi will be screened at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse Film Repertory Monday, 
October 13. It is definitely worth seeing. It is 
beautifully illustrated; one sequence, a 
valley seen from sunrise to sunset,is one of 
the most beautiful things I have ever seen on 
a movie screen. The images are lush, and the 
animation is innovative and effective.
The battle scenes, although criticized by 
some for being overdone, are stunning. For 
these Bakshi takes actula film clips and 
animates them by using highlights to show 
form and movement
The story concerns two brothers, the evil 
Wizrd Black Wolf, filled with a desire for 
conest, and his loveable twin, Avatar, who 
abandons his usual cheerful lethargy to 
oppose his brother.
The characters and plot are witty and 
whimsical, keeping the audience's attention 
throughout. The ending is a complete 
surprise, but so fitting that when I saw it for 
the first time, a usuallly blase university 
audience cheered and applauded.
Wizardsis a thoroughly enjoyabe film, 
both visually and as a story. Although there 
is an evil presence whose menace is well 
shown, what dominates the film is the joy 
and the beauty of the land that Avatar seeks 
to protect.
Now Read This!
Catharsis can be yours by sending 
your opinions via campus mail to Richard 
Gorelick, The Entertainment Editor, Box 
17, Skibo.
is looking for BS, MS, and PhD Chemical Engineers.
We will be on campus:
INFORMAL GET-TOGETHER: THURSDAY OCTOBER 9
7:00 PM
SKIBO Room #12
slide presentation, follow
ed by hor doeuvres and 
informal discussion 
priority seating given to 
junior,senior, and 
graduate chemical 
engineers, based on 
sign-up sheets in chem. 
eng. department.
Tickets for Jeff Beck are on sale now at all National Record Marts and the Stanley Theatre box office.
311 South Craig Street Craig Square Shops 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 Trish Taylor, Owner 
412-681-8451
Country Americana Quitts  Nostalgia 
Stationery  Books  Giggles
RUBBER STAMPS 
That Will Knock Your Socks
Off!
WATERMELON BLUES

---------------------------------------------------

October 7, 1980The TartanPage 13
Announcing: The Tartans First Annual
Entertainment and Personality Omnibus Opinion Poll
Sail around the world from Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, February 5,
1981 to South America, Africa, South Asia and the Orient. 
Apply now.
Earn a full semester of credit. Sponsored by the University of 
Pittsburgh. Offered as an outreach program by the Institute for 
Shipboard Education/University Center for International 
Studies. Participation open to qualified students from all accred
ited colleges and universities. Semester at Sea admits students 
without regard to color, race or creed.
More than 60 university courses - with in-port and voyage-related 
emphasis Faculty from the University of Pittsburgh and other leading 
institutions. Visiting area experts
For free color brochure, call or write Semester at Sn/U C I S . Forbes Quadrangle. University of Pittsburgh. PA 15260 Telephone toll free (800) 884-0198 (except California); (418) 684-8081 (Pittsburgh); (714) 881-8770 (California). The S S Universe is fully air conditioned. 18,000 tons, registered in Liberia and built In America
Who is in and who is out? What is the 
cream of the crop, and what is the scummy 
paste that sticks to the sides? Who has tasted 
the fruit of success, and who lias bitten the 
big one? At whom shall we toss a rose, and at 
whom shall we hurl tomatoes? How many 
^imes must a white dove sail before she 
sleeps in the sand?
The Tartans First Annual Entertain
ment and Personality Omnibus Opinion 
Poll asks you to provide the answers to these 
urgent questions. Everyone has their own 
answers and opinions, but one mans voice 
in the vast chorus of opinion is but a single 
Glade Herbal Air Freshener at the Monongahela Steel Works.
However, as a combined voice, men can 
change the voice of history; they can move 
mountains; they can harness rivers; they can 
Tiang paintings and rearrange the furniture. 
They can be heard.
With this purpose at heart, complete our 
poll and mail this form via campus mail to 
The Entertainment Editor, The Tartan, 
Box 17 Skibo. Please include your own com
ments in the space provided.
What is your favorite movie?
Annie Hall----------------------------------------------
Casablanca--------------------------------------------
Gtizen Kane---------------------------------------------
iGone With The Wind___________________
Harold and Maude----------------------------------
Luna-------------------------------------------------------
Star Wars------------------------------------------------
The Wizard of Oz------------------------------------
Something else___________________________
What is your favorite TV show?
I Love Lucy'---------------------------------------------
Mary Tyler Moore Show -------------------------
Star Trek--------------------------------------------------
The Twilight Zone______________________
M*A#S*H____________________________
Saturday Night Live__________________
Those Amazing Animals _____________
Something else_______________________
Who is your favorite female performer?
Bette Midler__________________________
Liza Minelli _________________________
Miss Piggy___________________________
Diana Ross___________________________
Barbra Streisand______________________
Someone else_________________________
Will Carter strike out again?
Who is your favorite actress?
Anne Bancroft-----------,---------------
Ingrid Bergman-------------------------
Katherine Hepburn_____________
Diane Keaton----------------------------
Jane Fonda--------------------------------
Brooke Shields---------------------------
Someone else----------------------------
Who is your favorite actor?
Marlon Brando ----------------
Robert DeNiro------------------
A1 Pacino-------------------------
Dustin Hoffman --------------
Jon Voight-----------------------
Sir Laurence Olivier---------
Sir John Gielguld------------
Sir Alec Guiness----------------
Sir Tenley Knott--------------
Someone else--------------
The actress you would most like to see 
ripped to shreds by a vermin in a movie:
Bo Derek--------------------------------------------------
Candice Bergen ---------------------------------------
Shelley Duvall-----------------------------------------
Jane Fonda----------------------------------------------
Tatum ONeal-----------------------------------------
Someone else-------------------------------------------
EXPERIENCE
THE WORLD AS YOUR CAMPUS
The woman you would most like to see get 
ripped to shreds by a vermin in real life:
Barbara Walters---------------------------------------
Jane Pauley ---------------------------------------------
Phyllis Schlafly ---------------------------------------
Phyllis George.-------------------------------------
Brett Somers--------------------------------------------
Suzanne Somers---------------------------------------
Someone Else-------------------------------------------
The man you would most like to see pub
licly ridiculed:
Hamilton Jordan-------------------------------------
Halston---------------------------------------------------
Andy Warhol------------------------------------------
John Denver--------------------------------------------
Merv Griffin or Mike Douglas (counts as
one choice)----------------------------------------------
Fernando Lamas or Ricardo Montalban
Jane Fonda 7
(counts as one choice)------------------------------
Dorn Delouise or James Coco (counts as one
choice)--------------------------------------------------
Pete Rose_______________________________
Dick Cyert ----------------------------------------------
Member of the First Family who has caused 
you the most personal humiliation as an 
American Citizen:
Amy_---------------------------------------------------
Billy_____________________________________
Rosalyn---------------------------------------------------
Miss Lillian -------------------------------------------
Jimmy--------------------------------
Julie Nixon Eisenhower-----
Trida Nixon Cox--------------
Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis. 
Someone eise---------------------
An Equal Opportunity Employer H/F
Field Engineers
RUN YOUR OWN SHOW 
IN THE GREAT OOTDOORS... 
WITH GEARHART  
THE GO COMPANY
Gearhart field engineers work for the fastest growing wkeHne 
service company ii) the world, serving the olllnd gas industry 
with the most sophisticated equipment in the basiness. If you 
have a BS degree in engineering, are highly self-motivated, 
comfortable making quick decisions, and dislike 
regimentation, consider a career as a field engineer with 
Gearhart Industries. Inc.
The GO Company knows its field engineers are dedicated, 
special p* opte and demonstrates it with highly competitive 
salaries, performance bonuses and an excellent benefit 
package (company car included.)
If being your own boss in the greatoutdoors and the potential 
for advancement to management appeals to you. contact the 
local placement office on your campus for more information.
GEARHART INDUSTRIES, INC.Attn: Technical Recruiting Dept.P.O. Box 1258 Fori Worth, Texee 76101 (817) 551*4127

---------------------------------------------------

performance to that point,(much of it has been over-dubbed and
Page 14The TartanOctober 7, 1980
For Bette or for worse
by Davidson Thomson
Thumbing through a copy of the New 
Yorker from New Years Eve in 1973, I 
came to a record review of Bette Midlers 
(then) new album, her second, Bette 
Midler. I was amazed, of course, to find 
that anyone on the New Yorker staff even 
knew who Bette Midler was, and further 
amazed when I read the praise they lav
ished on her  they really liked the album 
and loved the first one even more, prais
ing its sloppy freshness, its riskiness, and 
mentioned that she was even more wond
erful live.
The fact that the New Yorker, tradi
tional, staid, upper-class as it is, focussed 
on a performer that hardly anyone had 
heard of, and one that the people who 
had heard of found trashy, even shock
ing, despite her great music, made me 
wonder just what kind of following this 
woman was gathering. They compared 
her to Streisand -- a dynamo of untrained 
talent and energy who, with a few breaks,
would reach superstar status. And in that 
comparison, they implied that this early 
Midler was just as approachable for 
upper-middle America as the early Strei
sand had been - a soft singer, doing all 
your old favorites with pleasant twists to 
them, an art singer with Kurt Weill songs 
and trash like the Carpenters Superstar 
turning to gold. She would go on stage in 
big splashy musicals or make big splashy 
musical films. And thats what I was 
waiting for.
Ive always liked Midler best as as balladeer, and when her songs got heavier 
and meaner, I was disappointed. I 
thought, at first, that she was going 
downhill because shed lost Barry 
Manilow as her arranger and accompa
nist, and later I thought that she had 
ruined her voice with all the screaming 
she was doing. But while I was losing 
faith, the rest of America was beginning 
to catch on, and when The Rose, her
screamingest 
hit the screen other critics went nuts over 
her, while all I saw was an hysterical, 
bathetic performance. I was starting to 
hate her, and probably so was that record 
critic from the New Yorker. Her rise had 
alienated her original fans.
Divine Madness, Bette Midlers latest 
film, a pseudo-capturing of her live act
TWELVE MILLION PEOPLE KNOW 
THE SOUND OF THIS GUITAR.
WE'D LIKE TO INTRODUCE 
YOU TO ITS OWNER. 
Boston guitarist Barry 
Goudreau, in his first 
solo effort.
Featuring the single, 
Leavin' Tonight'.'
\ "Barry Goudreau.'
1 On Epic Portrait
if Records 
and Tapes.
"fpJc," "Portrait" ora trademarks of CBS Inc.Produced by John Boy Ian and Barry Qoodraau. Direction:
Laft Lana Management
AVAILABLE AT YOUR FAVORITE RECORD STORE
shot without an audience), was a major 
breakthrough for me. Somewhere near 
the middle of the film, when Midler, 
clutching the microphone and screaming 
Stay With Me (one of the songs that I 
hated in The Rose), I realized that she n 
knew exactly what she was doing -- that 
this rough-and-tough killer music was 
absolutely the right thing for our times. 
Midler, or at least this side of her, has 
joined the ranks of Jagger and Springstein  shes put away her up-beat nostal
gia and her broken-hearted sexuality, 
bringing us through the weeping, selfpitying Seventies and landing us in the 
desperation of the angry Eighties.
Once youve accepted this side of 
Midler, accepted the viability of it even if *.* 
you cant really enjoy it, theres depth in 
almost everything she does in Divine 
Madness. Everyone talks about Midlers 
energy, and its on full display here; she 
never stops moving, pacing the stage 
between the numbers with her hips flying 
like a strippers. Shes dirty and funny 
and touching and even, occasionally, 
quite beautiful. The Harlettes, her 
backup singers, are fascinating  they 
look so casual and crazy, but they do some 
of the most difficult material in the show,**1 
particularly impressive on Leader of the 
Pack.
The film presents Midler to her 
audience -- she and the film are all dolled 
up with colored lights, dry ice, and shots 
of the star from every angle. Care has been 
taken to re-do the songs that didnt sound 
just right and to edit the material into a 
flowing series -- everything that other 
live films try to avoid. In Gilda Live, 
for example, director Mike Nichols shot 
almost everything full on, with very few * 
closeups, giving it all the look of doccumentaries -- he even took us backstage to 
prove to us that this was all real. It was 
very clumsy, and suited Gilda and her for 
material. But it was a small film, and 
Divine Madness is enormous and slick 
and perfectly suited to Midlers style. 
Large as it is, she fills it; the whole thing 
has the immediacy of a live performance 
 you actually feel like applauding after 
every number.
Midler calls the film a time capsule of * 
my work, but shes come so far since the 
days of The Divine Miss M that even her 
old songs sound like brand new material. 
Theres nothing from her, past in this 
capsule, but the albums have captured 
that. Im ready to move on again, and 
look forward to Midlers future with 
renewed interest.
A Philip Pelusi Haircut 
for #6.00!!
Register for hair cutting classes. 
Call 261-6550 or stop by our 
salon in 
Squirrel Hill, The Bank Center

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
Tartans assassinate Presidents to remain unbeaten
photo by Jenny Ladd
Junior placekicker Denny Postufka hit two 41-yard field goals against the Presidents last Saturday. He 
leads all PA C kickers in scoring ______________
Tartan teams in action this week
Tues. Oct 7
Wed. Oct 8 
Fri. Oct 10 
Sat. Oct 11
Soccer
Womens Tennis 
Volleyball 
Field Hockey
Football
Soccer
X-Country
CMU vs Wash 8c Jeff 
CMU vs Chatham
CMU vs Penn St-Fayette 
CMU vs Wash 8c Jeff
CMU vs Bethany 
CMU vs Kent State 
CMII vs West Liberty
(H) 3:30 PM 
(A) 4:00 PM
(A) 6:30 PM
(H) 4:30 PM
(A) 1:30 PM 
(A) 1:30 PM 
(H) 11:00AM
Quarterback Rick Brown dives through a hole in the line against Allegheny. Brown gained 27 yards
rushing last week at Washington and Jeffereson.
special teams. The special teams hemmed 
the Presidents inside the twenty on the 
second half kickoff, then the Plaid 
Curtain shut down the opposition, forcing 
them to punt without having gained a first 
down. Another short punt by Soom of 28 
yards gave the Tartans a great scoring 
opportunity at the W 8c J 47. Colosimo led 
the Tartan offense as they fought to the 
Presidents 23, where the drive stalled. 
Postufka then made good on another 41 
yard field goal, increasing the CMU 
advantage to 13-3.
Once again the W 8c J offense took over 
deep in their own territory, and this time 
drove over their 40 before CMU defensive 
squad stiffened. However, the Tartan 
special teams came through again by 
blocking Sooms subsequent punt, and the 
offense again took over in W 8c J territory. 
Five plays later CMU was again in their 
rivals end zone after Harrison eight yard 
touchdown burst, his seventh TD of the 
1980 campaign. Postufkas conversion gave 
the Tartans a 20-3 bulge, but that score was 
not to last long, as once again the Presidents 
offense was stopped cold deep in their zone, 
and CMUs ofense was put in good shape at 
the W 8c J 47. Brown covered 34 of those 
yards through the air, and Colosimo ran for 
twelve more, scoring CMUs third 
touchdown of the afternoon on a nine yard 
trap play with 5:23 remaining in the third 
stanza. The extra point blew the game open,
with CMU in command, 27-3.
Washington & Jeffersons fourth quarter 
comeback attempt resulted in the only 
touchdown of the game by the Presidents. 
The 96 yard, 13 play drive chewed up nearly 
five minutes of the quickly expiring dock. 
Reserve quarterback Bill Krahe completed 
six passes during this period, four going to 
Frank YoHo for 52 yards, and another pass 
resulted in a 20 yard pass interference 
penalty which aided the Presidents cause. 
Split end Barry Fabriziani scored W 8c Js 
touchdown, hauling in a nine yard pass 
from Krahe. The extra point was kicked 
wide, making the Tartans lead 27-9. A W 8c 
J on side kick attempt was successful, but the 
CMU defense held, and time ran out before 
any more scoring could be accomplished.
Rick Brown enjoyed another fine day 
throwing the football, completing nine 
passes in seventeen attempts for 153 yards 
and a tdlichdown. Those nine completions 
went to eight different receivers; Perry 
Colosimo led the team with two receptions. 
Colosimo was also the teams leading ball 
carrier, amassing 44 yards on eight tries, 
including a touchdown. Harrison ran for 43 
yards on twelve attempts.
The Tartans may receive their toughest 
challenge from the a PAC team next week, 
as they travel to Bethany, the only other 
undefeated team in the PAC. The next 
home game, October 18, is the 
Homecoming game vs. Case Western
CMU 3 7 17 0  27
Wash-Jeff 0 3 0 6  9
CMU-Denny Postufka 41 yd. FG 
CMU-Gary Drakulic 33 yd. pass from Rick 
Brown (Postufka kick)
W8cJ-Pete Soom 35 yd. FG 
CMU-Denny Postufka 41 yd. FG 
CMU-Jeff Harrison 8 yd. run (Postufka 
kick)
CMU-Perry Colosimo 9 yd. run (Postufka 
kick)
W8cJ-Barry Fabriziani 9 yd. pass from Bill 
Krahe (kick blocked)
CMUW8cJ
First Downs1215
Rushes-yds42-15335-76
Passing yds143155
Att.-Comp.-Int.20-9-135-17-2
Total yds296231
Fumbles-lost3-11-1
Punts-avg.4-32.58-28.1
Penal ties-yds.5-457-55
PAC standings on page 18
CMU LEADERS 
Passing-Brown 9 for 17,143 yards, 1 TD, 1> 
int. Olive 0 for 3, 0 yards.
Rushing-Colosimo 8 for 44 yards, 1 TD. 
Harrison 12 for 43 yards, 1 TD. Brown 9 for 
27 yards. Vasalani 5 for 11 yards. Sansosu 4 
for 11 yards. Olive 3 for 11 yards. Wagner 1 
for 6 yards.
Receiving-Colosimo 2 for 24 yards. 
Drakulic 1 for 33 yards, 1 TD. I >eposkv 1 for
24 yards. Dixon 1 for 18 yards. DaCanal 1 for
15 yards. Shareet 1 for 15 yards. Rubai 1 for 8 
yards. Sansosti 1 for 6 yards.
by Bob Share
The Camegie-Mellon University Tartans 
football team moved one step closer to a 
second straight Presidents Athletic 
conference title and a second undefeated 
season last Saturday, by clobbering 
Washington and Jefferson, 27-9, in the 
Tartans first road game of the season. The 
key to the CMU victory was the effectiveness 
of the Tartan offense, which rolled up about 
three hundred total yards against the 
Presidents league leading defense, which 
had given up an average of only 127 yards 
per game.
The Tartans won without having the 
service of senior flanker Pete Recchia, who 
underwent knee surgery last week and will 
be lost for the remainder of the season. 
Recchia, the teams leading pass receiver this 
year, prematurely closed out a fine football 
career at CMU.
The two teams opened the game by 
trading punts for the first eight minutes, 
neither team being able to move consistendy 
against the other. The Tartans then received 
a break in the form of good field position, 
when a punt by W 8c Js Pete Soom travelled 
five yards. Starting on their own 35, the 
CMU offensive unit moved 41 yards in nine 
plays, keyed by runs of fourteen yards by 
quarterback Rick Brown and halfback Perry 
Colosimo, culminating in a 41 yard field 
goal by Denny Postufka. The successful 
boot gave the Tartans an early 3-0 lead 
against the Presidents.
Once again the W 8c J offense was stifled 
by CMUs Plaid Curtain defense and,
following a short punt, the Tartans were 
again given fine field position at the 
Presidents 37. This distance was covered in 
three plays, the final one a 33 yard aerial 
from Brown to tight end Gary Drakulic on 
the first play of the second quarter. Postufka 
split the uprights on the extra point, and the 
Tartans lead widened to 10-0.
The next nine minutes were marked by 
play generally within the thirty yard lines. 
Turnovers were a large force in determining 
the direction of the ball during this period, 
as a total of three turnovers were committed, 
two by the Presidents. But neither team 
could capitalize on the others mistakes, and 
the score remained 10-0 CMU when the 
Presidents took possession of the ball on 
their own 20 following a Tartan punt. The 
W 8c J quarterback Dominic Papalia and 
halfback Joe Calvini then spearheaded a 
twelve play drive that took them into field 
goal range at the CMU 18. Calvini broke 
loose on a 21 yard scamper during the drive, 
and Papalia threw for 35 additional yards on 
four for seven passing. Soom completed the 
drive on the final play of the half by 
connecting on a 35 yard field goal that put 
the Presidents on the scoreboard, but sull a 
touchdown behind the Tartans, 10-3. An 
important staustic in that first half was that 
the CMU offense amassed 119 yards total 
offense, almost as much as the Presidents 
had allowed per game to that point. It 
seemed clear that the Plaid was not being 
stopped effectively by W 8c J.
The Tartans proved that point in the 
third quarter, adding 17 points to their 
score, with a lot of help from the defense and

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanOctober 7, 1980
Soccer team defeats West Liberty for first win
by Nancy Bums
We are hoping for a winning year. We 
are not out of the conference yet, com
mented soccer coach Gene Klein, although 
his Tartans won one match, tied one, and 
lost two in their previous four matches.
The Tartans latest loss came against 5th
ranked (regionally) Bethany, 4-1. Bethany 
dominated the game and outshot CMU 21-
3. According to Klein, Bethany is one of the 
best teams weve played, the best in the Presi
dents Athletic Conference. Alan McCurdy 
scored the Tartans lone goal.
On October 1, the Tartans defeated West 
Liberty 2-1. We were lucky to get a win. It
was the worst weve played all year. We were 
fortunate to play poorly and win, com
mented Klein. West Liberty scored first in 
the contest. CMUs first score came on a 
defensive error by West Liberty. A WL back 
kicked the ball back to his goalie. The goalie 
missed it and it rolled into the net. Tim 
Carlin was credited the goal. Carl Pavelko 
scored the Tartans winning goal late in the 
game.
Although Case Western outshot CMU 20- 
10 in their confrontation, the match ended 
with a 1-1 tie. Tartan goalkeeper Dan Carlin 
played very well, commented Klein, He 
kept us in the game. Tim Carlin scored for
the Tartans. He was assisted by Mike 
Minock.
The Tartans lost to Pitt 2-0. Pitt scored in 
the opening two minutes and the closing 
five minutes. Otherwise, the two teams 
played evenly, said Klein. We missed 
opportunities to tie, he added. Pitt outshot 
the Tartans 17- 7 in the game.
Looking toward the rest of the season, 
Coach Klein said that there is a tough road 
ahead. There are no easy teams. We just 
have to work hard.
The Tartans will play Washington and 
Jefferson at home today at 3:30 and Kent 
State away on Saturday.
Baseball Club ends slide
photo by Spass Stoiantschewsky 
Freshman Jong Yi fights for the ball in last weeks 2-1 victory over West Liberty.Harriers run over Bethany
The Carnegie-Mel Ion cross country team 
remained undefeated in dual meets on the 
year as they defeated defending Presidents 
Athletic Conference champion Bethany 19- 
42 and the Jeannette Harriers 19-44 last 
Saturday on Flagstaff Hill.
Senior Dario Donatelli led the charge for 
CMU as the Tartans took nine of the first 
twelve places in the event Donatelli crossed 
the finish line in a time of 25:15, nine 
seconds ahead of Jeannettes Ken Gribshaw. 
Freshman Mike Short was the second
Tartan across the line, finishing third with a 
time of 25:45. Alex Kon of Bethany finished 
fourth.
Rounding out the scoring for CMU were 
Kevin Brewer who came in fifth, John 
Wessels, sixth, and Chris Shafer who crossed 
the line in eighth place.
Next Saturday, the Tartans are at home to 
face West Liberty in a non-conference meet. 
Their next conference action is in a double 
dual meet on October 18 against Case 
Western Reserve and Washington and 
Jefferson.
by Mike Seel
The Camegie-Mellon Baseball Club 
dropped its second consecutive game last 
Tuesday, at the hands of Point Park, 8-5 
before rebounding on Thursday with a 3-1 
victory over Penn State McKeesport.
The Tartans jumped out to an early lead 
on Tuesday with two runs in the first inning 
when, after Bemie Lawrence and Ed Novak 
hit back-to-back singles, Max Homer nailed 
a run scoring double. The Plaid played well 
throughout the first four innings and found 
themselves ahead, 4-1. Point Park then 
showed the form that has taken them to the 
NAIA World Series three times in the last 
five years as they rallied for four runs off 
Jamie Patdson in the fifth to take a 5-4 lead.
A triple by Mike Seel and a run scoring 
single by Novak tied the game for the Tar
tans in the sixth, but the Pioneers got two 
runs in the eighth and one more in the ninth 
to put the game out of reach at 8-5.
Pattison turned in a courageous perfor
mance on the mound but a lack of defensive
support cost him his fourth victory. The 
Tartans committed eight errors on their way 
to their second loss.
, Penn State McKeesport was the victim as 
the Tartans ended their short skid with a 3-1 
win. Ed Novak allowed just three hits to go 
along with five walks and six strikeouts in 
picking up his fourth victory against just 
one loss.
Finding themselves trailing 1-0 in the 
first, the Plaid tied the score with a lead off 
single, two walks and a PSU error. Max 
Homer picked up the RBI. The Tartans 
then took the lead to stay in the seventh. 
Wally Weber opened the inning with a sin
gle and scored one out later on a double by 
Mike Seel. Max Homer scored the insurance 
run in the eighth when he singled, moved to 
third on singles by Bemie Lawrence and Joe 
Schwab, scored on a Wally Weber 
ground out. The victory raised the Tartans 
record to 7-2 on the year.
The Plaid completed their 1980 fall sea
son last Sunday as they traveled to ACCBeaver for a doubleheader.
FOR THOSE ONCE-IN-A-UFET1ME SNAPSHOTS
1 i 
MAKE SURE YOUR FILM IS IN THE RIGHT HANDS
At ASA  Photo we take great pride in the quality of our work. 
ASA  Photo is the only photo processor in Pittsburgh that 
allows you to watch your own film being developed. So, whether 
youre a professional 35 MM photographer or a weekend snapper; 
ASA  Photos the place for you.
ThehTNNnVv ..............
Same day service on 
ektachrome film 
Fast, fast service on 
all other films. 
Glossy prints at no 
extra charge at all 
110, 126,135 film. 
Instant color 
passports photos.
JffPHOVO
JLUJLXHDKE
3527 FORBES AVENUE 
681-1720
Exxxzmmn
Whatever look is your look...
Ybu'll look better with a 
Great X precision haircut I
Whatever look is you - you'll look better with a 
Great "X" Precision haircut. Great X's method 
of precision cutting means we cut -and shape 
your hair from the "inside out" so it looks 
better longer. Great X also specializes in perms, 
coloring, frosting and conditioning all at reason
able prices. Come into Great "X" today and 
see how much better you'll look tomorrow.
GftCfflerocnmons
HAIRCUTS
(Wosh-Cut-Blow)II00
Mon. Tues. Wed. 10*7 
Thur*. Fri. 10-9
Sat. 9-6
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS 
COLORING
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office 
6S7-3S00
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMANENTS
25
No Appointments

---------------------------------------------------

October 7, 1980The TartanPage 17
GSIA comes away with 3rd Birdy Invitational
by Wes Seeley
The results are in from the third annual 
Earl J. Birdy Invitational. With four teams 
and 24 golfers entered, the winner was the 
team from GSIA with a team total score of 
308. The individual champion was Jim Czepiel of GSIA who shot a 72.
Pika-A has pulled out in front of the pack 
in Touch Football with a record of 30 in 
the Major League. In the Intermediates, 
Stench III leads the Greene Division, Macks 
and the Doherty Dozen are on top of the 
Lambert Division, Zoo-A and the Cosmic 
Echoes are in front in the Swann Division 
and Kappa Sig-A and The Gang lead the 
Harris Division. In the Minors, The Herd, 
Kappa Sig-B, The Force, Kappa Sig-C lead 
their respective divisions. Kappa Kappa 
Gamma, the MJPs and the Caramel Con
nection are all 2-0 in the Womens League.
Please note the winning team on the 
scoresheet for football. The standings are 
posted on the IM bulletin board. Officials 
can pick up their fees in the IM office. Rocky 
Gersosimo, phone 578-4613, is the commis
sioner for the Major and Womens Leagues. 
Wes Seeley, phone 687-0843, and Mark 
McKeefrey, phone 682-9311, are the commis
sioners for the Intermediate and Minor 
leagues.
Finals are scheduled to be played this 
Majors
BradshawWinLoss
SAE03
Wild Bunch10
ATO21
PIKA-A30
Coaches All Stars11
BETA-A02
Haven III11
Minors
II
CunninghamWinLoss
Zoo-B12
Allies02
Herd20
Off With Their Heads10
TX11
WagnerWinLoss
Boss II01
E-Tower More wood03
GSIA Doughboys10
Kappa Sig-330
Amber11
ThorntonWinLoss
The Force20
Blue Boys01
Pika-C10
Keg Kickers12
More Than A Mouthful01
KolbWinLoss
I-Tapa-Keg01
Stickeys10
Mean Machine11
PKT-B11
Kappa Sig-C21
NP-Completions01
WomensJo-JoWinLoss
KKG20
GSIA02s.w.o:c.02
Delta, Delta, Delta02
MJPs20
Caramel Connection20
Pregnant?
And you didnt mean to be? 
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help call
Birthright 6 1-1988.
week in Tennis. Please get all matches 
played on time and turn in the scores to the 
IM office. Check the bulletin board for the 
play-off schedule. Greg Anderson, phone 
743-3121, is the commissioner.
Co-Rec Volleyball starts play this week. 
Please check out and return all equipment 
to Buddy Hobart in the Intramural equip
ment room in the gym. Please note the win
ning team and scores. The commissioner is 
Mike Pochan, phone 683-0372.
October 16 at 4:30PM has been set as the 
date and time of the IM Cross Country meet. 
You may run as a member of a five person 
team or as an individual. You can enter at 
Flagstaff Hill just before the race. There will 
be a mens and womens champion. The 
commissioner is Bob Dudas, phone 682- 
6133.
A commissioner and more teams are 
needed in Chess. Team entries are still being 
accepted.
Water Polo begins this week with games 
to be played at 8:30 PM and 9:15PM in the 
pool. There must be a certified lifeguard on 
duty during all games. Chris Burke, phone 
682-9313, is commissioner.
Entries are closed and competition will 
start soon in Bowling (commissioner Dave 
Hecht, phone 678-8968), Racquetball (com
missioner Don Polansky, phone 372-5276) 
and Table Tennis, which still needs a
commissioner.
. The entry due date for Soccer and Volley11 has been extended to October 23. Mike 
pochan, phone 683-0372 is the volleyball 
commissioner. Soccer still needs one.
The next Intramural Board Meeting will 
be held on October 16 at 12:30PM in room 
104 erf the gym. Make sure your organization 
is represented.
MM ' * 'mb' m b 
photo by Spass Stoiantschewsky 
Action in the Major League of IM. touch football has been fast and furious.
Independent.Ambitious.Unconventional.Curious.Uncertain.
Five words that don't scare us at Digital.
In fact, il these live* words desi ribe vou, 
wed like to meet you.
Me are the world s largest producer of 
minicomputers. And we've always been th 
ideal place for independent- i
minded people who want to grov\ 
last People who want toimm
investigate and apply new approaches to 
problem solving. People who want the time 
and opportunity to find the right career path. 
Consider us when you're ready to
D begin your career.
Me arc an equal opportunity 
employer, m/f.
We change the way the world thinks.
See us on campus.
A Digital representative from LSI Manufacturing and Central Eng ineering 
will be on campus on October 13, 1980
to meet Computer Science Majors & Masters, Electrical & Mechanical Enginee;s&Math Majors 
For additional information, contact: Your Placement Office______

---------------------------------------------------

General Dynamics representatives 
will be on your campus to talk to you 
about your future.
General Dynamics, a Fortune 100 
company, is best known as the na
tions leading defense contractor. But 
we have a wide range of programs in 
many other commercial high-tech
nology fields as well.
Youll find excellent career oppor
tunities in nearly every engineering 
discipline at most of our 15 operating
divisions across the country.
For more information on careers in 
aerospace, electronics, telecommuni
cations, data products, shipbuilding, 
tactical weaponry and other areas, be 
sure to pick up one of our brochures at 
your Placement Office and make an 
interview appointment.
And, plan to attend our Corporate 
presentation the evening before 
our on-campus interviews. Details 
at your Placement Office.
Or, if you prefer, send your 
resume to:
BILL COLEMAN, Corporate College 
Relations Administrator 
GENERAL DYNAMICS 
Pierre Laclede Center, CN-14 
St. Louis, MO 63105
An Equal Opportunity Employer
campus \=*jIm\jwsOCTOBER I6& 17
Page 18The TartanOctober 7, 1980
Field hockey squad grabs share of PWC lead
Conference title hopes were rekindled as 
Ifce Camegie-Mellon field hockey team 
iMumed from last weeks road trip with two 
victories. The Tartans have tied Bethany 
with a 3-1 record in conference play.
The week began with a 2-1 victory over 
crosstown rivals Chatham College. After a 
slow start, CMU encounted problems with a 
bunching offense making it almost impossi
ble for the Tartans to move the ball forward. 
Intense pressure was placed upon right
winger Carolyn Gray and right-back Alex 
Allen as they drove toward the goal. Sopho
more left-midfielder, Beth MacElwee was 
responsible for both goals bringing her sea
son total up to four. Defensively, goalie Les
lie Schwarzchild lead the pack holding
CarnegieMellon
W
3
L
0
per.
1.000
Bethany301.000
John Carroll21.667
Hiram21.667
WTash-Jeff12.333
Thiel12.333
Allegheny03.000
Case Reserve03.000
Chatham to only one goal.
Friday quickly approached and CMUs 
final battle with Bethany. The game began 
with a light drizzle, but nothing could stop 
the Tartans offense. Outstanding work was 
exhibited by Carolyn Gray and Alex Allen; 
Allen was frequendy able to send the tell up 
the right alley who quickly pased to rightinner Pam Eldridge. The same teamwork 
was exhibited on the left-side of the field as 
sophomore Barb Fitts worked with center 
mid-fielder Suzie Reynhout to get the ball to 
the offense. Mary Rehak and Edna Kunkle 
scored beautifully executed goals to lead the 
Tartans to their 2-1 victory.
CMU meets Washington and Jefferson 
this Friday on Tech Field at 4:30.
Carnegie-Mellon 27 Washington
Jefferson 9
Bethany 39 Thiel 21
John Carroll 13 Allegheny 0
Hiram 23 Case Western Reserve 7
Here are the Division III national 
rankings prior to last weekends games:
1. Ithica (N.Y.), 4-0-0
2. Widener (Pa.), 3-0-0
3. Baldwin-Wallace (Ohio), 3-0-0
A. Camegie-Mellon, 4-0-0
5. Wisconsin-Whitewater, 4-0-0
6. Wabash (Ind.), 4-0-0
7. Dubuque (Iowa), 3-0-0 
(tie) Lycoming (Pa.), 3-0-0
9. Elmhurst (III.), 3-0-0
10. Wagner (N.Y.), 3-0-0Pam Eldridge (right) takes the ball away from a Bethany attacker. The Tartans are in good position to 
take the PWC title from the Bisons as well.

---------------------------------------------------

October 7, 1980The TartanPage 19
October 198(
Sun.Mon.Tues.Wed.Thurs.Fri.Sat.l2
Film Arts Movie, 
DH 22103
AB Film: The 
Rose, DH 2210 
6, 8:30, 11
4
Football Away 
SDC Film,
DH 2210
56789
Film Arts Movie, 
DH 221010
AB Film: Alien, 
DH 2210 6, 
8:30, 11
11
Football Away 
SDC Film,
DH 2210
1213141516
Film Arts Movie, 
DH 221017
Homecoming  
Classes Meet 
AB Film: Electric 
Horseman,
DH 2210 6,
8:30, 11
18
Homecoming 
Football Home 
SDC Film,
DH 2210
1920
October Holiday
no classes 
except GSIA 
21
Classes resume, 
Mid-semester 
grades due by 
Noon
2223
Film Arts Movie, 
DH 221024
GSIA first mini 
ends
AB Film: The 
China Syn
drome,
pp 2210 6, 8-30,
25
Football Home 
SDC Film,
DH 2210
2627282930
GSIA second 
mini begins 
Film Arts Movie, 
DH 2210
31
AB Film: Hallo
ween, DH 2210 
6, 8, 10, 12
PERSPECTIVES
 PERSPECTIVES'
An Attempt to Formulate a Field Theory of Design
Jay Doblin is considered (he "grandfather of industrial design. During World War II he stalled his 
career working with Raymond Loewy Associates designing military equipment. Doblin has been 
director of the Institute of Design at the Illinios Institute of Technology and has served as President of 
the Industrial Designers Society of America, (IDSA). He was co-founder and senior Vice President of 
Unimark International and now operates as a design consultant.
PERSPECTIVES
THE DESIGN DEPARTMENT LECTURE SERIES
JAY DOBUN------------TONIGHT 8:00/SCH 7500

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
classified
Apartment Wanted. Philosophy student, also 
interested in punque rock and art, desires to live 
with quiet and stylish students in the Oakland/Shadyside area. If interested write to APART
MENT, 142 Crescent Hills Road, Pittsvurgh, PA 
15235.
Moving and light hauling; campus based and 
reasonable. Call late evenings 687-3062.
Want it done right? Typing, editing, profession
ally prepared by a Ph.D graduate. Reports, 
manuscripts, dissertations. Prompt, efficient, 
reasonable. IBM Executive. Susan, 963-7558. Call 
after 4 PM.
Professional typing at reasonable rates. Specialize 
in last-minute work. Dissertations, manuscripts, 
term papers, statistical, etc. Call 371-3657, 24 hr. 
service IBM Selectric.
Typing. Term papers, letters, dissertations, etc. 
Call Shirley, 521-0534, before 9 PM if possible.
Addressers wanted immediately! Work at home; 
no experience necessary  excellent pay. Write: 
National Service, 9041 Mansfield, Suite 2004, 
Shreveport, Louisiana 71118.
Typing 75C/page. Fast accurate on new 
Smith-Corona, pica typeface. Resumes, research 
papers, dissertations, thesis. Deborah Payne, 687- 
4861, evenings.
Typing experienced, freelance secretary, will 
type at home, resumes, thesis, correspondence, 
tables, etc own IBM Selectric II. 521-7888.
Cash: Wanted 10,000 "Wrecks and Junkers, 23 
hrs. 422-9968.
The Kiltie Band has two mailing addresses now.
If you need to contact us and/or need informa
tion, dont hesitate to send it through campus
mail.
Kiltie Band 
Skibo Information Desk 
or Kiltie Band Box 204 (CMU)
Pgh, PA 15213
Varsity Christian Fellowship will begin a three 
part exposition of the New Testament book of 
Ephesians, with Dr. Maurice Irvin, at its large 
group meeting, Tuesday October 7,7PM, Room 
45 Skibo. All welcome.
Oakland Review, CMUs student literary maga
zine, will hold an organizational meeting on 
Monday, October 13 at 7:30 PM in Room 12, 
Skibo. All interested persons are invited to attend. 
For more information, call 521-0188.
This week the Forbes Street Gallery will be featur
ing the works of William C Petrone, Alan Jesse 
Cuteri, and Ronald A. Barkey. Opening night is 
October 7th at 7:00PM and the show will run 
until Oct. 14.
The Speech Club will now be meeting on 
Mondays at 6 PM in Skibo, Room 11. If you 
are interested in improving public speaking 
and interpersonal communication skills, 
plan to attend. If you are interested in compet
ing, or if you cannot attend the meeting, 
please contact John at X4410.
The Pre-Law Advisor on Campus is Thomas M. 
Kerr, Associate Professor of Industrial Adminis
tration and Law, Room 206, GSIA, Extension 
2295. He is a lawyer. Information about law 
school applications and admission can be 
obtained from him. He has pre-law information 
for minority students respecting some financial 
aid which may be available to them. Also, he has 
available publications respecting law educa
tional opportunities for women and information 
about women practicing law.
The users IDs for the students in self-paced 
French 82-103 have been issued. The accounts are 
on the TOPS-D. The account number for this 
course is N315. The list of the students names 
with their individual users IDs is affixed on the 
door of Professor Fougeres, Baker Hall, room 
232A. In case you miss me some day, the compu
ter mail is an excellent way to send me extra 
questions about grammar or whatever pertains to 
the course. My own user ID is MF0W, but if you 
use the MM system you can just send me material 
to FOUGERES, and it should reach me. Michael 
Fougeres.
Anyone interested in serving on the following 
committees should contact Dean Swank x2076.
1) Faculty Council on Student Affairs
2) Student Advisory Committee for Auxiliary 
Service
3) Parking Committee
4) Security Committee
officialgeneral
club
Student Senate meets tonight at 7:00PM in the 
Wherrett Room. Student Senate office hours are 
MondayFriday 3-9PM. x2115.
Revision of Student Govt Constitution in 
progressanyone with ideas contact Nina 
Houska x5957.
John P. Credne, Dean of the College of Humani
ties & Social Sciences will have open office hours 
for students, Tuesdays from 1:30 to 3:30. InterPresident to have open office hours for students.
President Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 and 5PM, in his 
office on Wednesday, October 8. Students who 
wish to meet with the president should telephone 
his office, 578-2200, to set up an appointment.
It is hoped that this program will be a benefit to 
both the president and the students in allowing 
direct contact with him.
Senate office his. 3-8 PM, M-F, X2115.
Anyone interested in serving on Student Govt 
Constitution Revision Committee contact Nina 
Houska, X5957.
Senate Academic
Thurs. at 7:00.
Affairs Committee meets
Senate Finance Committee meets Wed. at 7:00.
Senate General Campus & Information Commit
tee meets Monday at 7:00.
Senate meetings in Wherrett Rm., Tuesday at 
7:00.
Bnai Brith Hillel-Jewish University Center 
Activities: Oct.8, 5:30 PM, Leadership Coun
cil dinner meeting; 6:30 PM: Rabbis Study 
Group begins. Come join Rabbi Joe for what 
has always been one of the years best study 
groups. Oct. 9, 12 noon, guest Rabbi lun
cheon and informal discussion. Todays guest 
will be Rabbi Bernard Poupko; 8 PM: Israeli 
Dancing (Hillel Lounge). Oct. 10, 5:30 PM, 
traditional Shabbat service and dinner (spe
cial). Make meal resevations in advance. Oct.
11, 9 PM, Student Leadership Council is 
sponsoring a Coffee House Extravaganza. 
Live Entertainment- terrific food, Lower 
Lounge, Student Union, Schenley Hall. 315 
A. Bellefield Avenue (across from Heinz 
Chapel), 621-8875.
Holy Spirit Gathering Oct. 7, 8, 9 7:30 PM in 
Skibo Ballroom, Camegie-Mellon University. A 
time of singing, worship, spirit, spirit filled 
praise and teaching from Gods word. Emphasis 
will be on receiving the baptism of the Holy 
Spirit. Special singing Tuesday night by Torn 
and Cathy Hickling from WPLW, Wednesday 
night  The Lange-NolleTrio, Thursday Night
 Dan Scott. Guest speaker Dan Scott. Admis
sion Free. Sponsored by Oakland Apostolic 
Church.
Holy Eucharist is celebrated every Sunday morn
ing at 10:30 and Wednesday evening at 7 PM at 
the Lutheran University Center Chapel (4515 
Forbes Ave.), and at Heinz Chapel Sunday even
ing at 6:15 PM.
Jeff Kloty and Chris Ramsey, the Virginal Con
sort, will play at the Alternative Coffeehouse, 
Friday, October 10 from 8 PM until midnight. 
All events take {dace at the Lutheran University 
Center, 4515 Forbes Avenue, unless otherwise 
noted. Contact John Bare at x4480.
The Old Testament book, Jonah, will be 
explored this Sunday, October 12 at the Lutheran 
University Center at 7:20 PM.
Pittsburgh Penguins Fans!! $10 tickets (Csec
tion) can be bought for $7 at Skibo Informa
tion Desk for the opening game of the season 
on Oct. 11 at 8:00 with the Winnepeg Jets. 
This is the first of 5 offers that will be given 
thoughout the season, including games with 
Montreal and Philadelphia.
Cheer on the Tartans
See CMU vs Bethany 
This Saturday
Depart from the Skibo lot at 11
AM
on a deluxe chartered bus
:30
$5.00 round trip fare includes ticket to the 
game 
and is available at the Skibo Information Desk 
from 9 AM  5 PM
Sponsored by Student Activities
