The Tartan
Volume 82, Issue 21 Carnegie Mellon University March 22,1988
IINSIDE
FEATURES...............Page 11
Glickstein on job hunting, Skibo  then 
and now, and students win Cray time
SPORTS......................Page 20
Tennis and basketball preview and row
ing club gets funding
GALA dance apparent 
target of bomb threat
Health Center conducts campus-wide immunization
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan News Editor
Yesterday the Carnegie Mellon Health Cen
ter conducted a campus-wide immunization 
for measles after two cases of the disease were 
confirmed last week. The immunization will 
cost the state health department an estimated 
$100,000.
The health department had already con
ducted immunizations in Donner Hall when 
two residents there were first suspected of 
having the measles. Also, the immunization 
U'as prompted by three suspected cases of 
rubella, commonly known as German
measles.
At press time, the vaccines were scheduled to 
be given at Donner, Doherty, Baker, More
wood Gardens, and Skibo.
Measles is a highly communicable disease 
and the universitys health department is 
stressing the urgency of immunization.
Because measles was once a common 
childrens disease, people bom before 1957 
should have a natural immunity to the disease. 
Also, people who have had measles are now 
immune to it.
Students were urged to receive the vaccine if 
continued on page 4
Student Senate debates funding status
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan News Editor 
In its second two-and-a-half-hour meeting 
this semester, Student Senate debated the 
funding status of the recently organized club, 
Amnesty. After a circuitous parliamentary 
procedure, the group was awarded $200 for 
fundraising.i Amnestys funding status became an issue 
when Senator Allen Greenberg proposed that 
the groups funding status be changed from 
non-funded to funded recognition. Because 
the student government constitution prohibits 
the funding of political organizations, Green
berg defended his motion saying, 
[Amnestys] primary purpose is human 
rights.... They support no particular type of 
government.
Amnesty is part of a worldwide group that 
attempts to prevent human rights violations. 
The groups principal activity is letter writing. 
Personal, handwritten letters are sent to gov
ernment officials around the world in hopes of 
winning the release of political prisoners, 
halting executions, and ending torture.
The lengthy Senate debate was apparently 
the result of a misunderstanding during a 
Funding and Recognition Committee meet
ing. At the meeting, Jill Moore, President of 
Amnesty, said she had the impression that 
Senate would view the club as political and 
that funding would be difficult to obtain. As a 
result, Amnestys budget request was dropped 
and instead the club applied for non-funded 
recognition.
Tamal Mukherjee, committee chairman.
said that he had intended for Amnesty first to 
obtain non-funded recognition and then to 
return to Senate for a special allocation. 
Mukherjee said that by his count only two of 
the committees seven mejnbers staunchly 
considered Amnesty a political organization.
He countered claims that the group was 
talked out of its budget. We did not point a 
gun in their face and say Thats the only way 
you can do it, Mukherjee stated at the meet
ing.
Senator Vidal Graupera asked that the mo
tion to change Amnestys funding status be 
referred back to committee, saying, I dont 
think the full Senate is the forum to debate this 
issue. His motion failed.
Three different factions voiced opinions 
during the debate. The first argued against
of Amnesty
funding. Graupera suggested that the group 
needed time to evolve first. Other senators 
suggested that funding Amnesty was no dif
ferent from giving a charitable donation to 
Students Against Multiple Sclerosis, while 
another felt Amnesty should be asking the
continued on page 7
Well be back...
Due to Spring Break, The 
Tartan will not be published 
again until Tuesday, April 12. 
The Tartan wishes its entire 
readership a pleasant vacation.
Divestment
Rally
photo by Eric W. Leulieue
Nearly sixty students marched in freezing rain for an hour and a half on Friday in 
support of divestment of South African holdings. In May the Board of Trustees will 
vote on divestment.
photo by Jeff Rosenblum
/ Spring officially began at 4:39 am on Sunday, despite the snow and cold weather. 
Freshman Jon Stark studies on the orange sculpture in front of Wean Hall.
By JONATHAN LEVY
Tartan Staffwriter
On the evening of Friday, March 18, an 
anonymous bomb threat forced the evacuation 
of Skibo Hall for nearly ten minutes.
At approximately 10:30 pm an unknown 
person called the Carnegie Mellon Police of
fice and said Get those gays out of Skibo or 
well blow it up at 11:00. It is believed that the 
reference to gays was directed at the Gay and 
Lesbian Alliance (GALA) dance in the Wherrett Room.
Carnegie Mellon and City Police evacuated 
Skibo at 10:57 pm and searched for the bomb. 
At 11:06 pm CMU Police Sergeant Frances 
Russ made the decision that the building was 
safe and allowed people to re-enter.
The police do not think that there was ever an 
actual bomb in Skibo. They believe that the 
call was a prank. The caller was described as 
having a male, college-aged voice. The police
have no other leads. Unlike some university 
phones, the ones in the police office do not ring 
differently for on and off-campus calls.
At the time oTthe threat, it was not commonly 
known whether it was aimed at GALA in 
particular. However, Michael Marshall. Sec
retary of GALA, felt that even though GALA 
has never had problems at past events, The 
fact that it happened now (during a GALA 
dance] is more than just coincidence.
David Stewart, a member of the gay rights 
organization CRY OUT!, is not a Carnegie 
Mellon student but was at the dance. He says 
that although he has never been physically 
assaulted, violence against gays is on the rise 
in Pittsburgh.
He specifically cited the February 14 raid at 
Travelers, a gay nightclub in East Liberty, in 
which the police allegedly used excessive 
force. Stewart said I am sure [the bomb 
threat] was [directed at GALA].

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanMarch 22,1988
World 
Newsvir/''WV.V/
Afghan talks encounter 
Soviet, U.S. dispute
GENEVA (AP)  Negotiations on Afghani
stan hit a logjam last Tuesday as a Soviet-set 
target date for an agreement passed, and it was 
decided in Pakistan that an interim govern
ment be set up in Kabul before Soviet troops 
return home.
In Moscow, the Soviets accused Pakistan 
and the United States of imposing last-minute 
conditions on a peace accord.
The Soviet government said in a statement 
that the United States and Pakistan are pro
foundly mistaken if they hope the Soviet 
Union will begin withdrawing from Afghani
stan without an agreement at U.N.-sponsored 
talks.
Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev said last 
month that if a settlement of the Afghan civil 
war was signed by last Tuesday, Soviet sol
diers would begin withdrawing on May 15. He 
pledged that half of the estimated 115,000 
soldiers would leave in three months.
At a news briefing last Tuesday. Soviet For
eign Ministry spokesman Gennady I. Gerasi
mov told reporters, It is clear that if the 
deadline for signing the documents is post
poned. there will accordingly be a postpone
ment in the withdrawal of the troops.
Pakistan has said it wants a transitional 
government in Kabul before the Soviets begin 
their withdrawal to oversee the Soviet pullout 
and ensure the safe return of more than 5 
million refugees from Pakistan and Iran.
Iran breaks ties with 
UN security council
ZURICH (DJ)  A senior Iranian diplomat, 
saying Wednesday he spoke on behalf of the 
Iranian foreign ministry, was quoted as dis
closing that Iran had broken all ties with the 
UN Security council and that only a military 
solution could end the gulf war.
Seyed Mohammed Hossein Malaek, charge 
d-affaires for Iran in Switzerlands capital, 
Bern, also said Iran no longer felt obligated to 
respect any international conventions, the 
Neue Zuercher Zeitung newspaper reported.
In Bern, a spokesman said the Iranian em
bassy was closed for a Moslem holiday. But he 
confirmed that Malaek spoke to a small group 
of Swiss reporters on Tuesday. He said a text 
of the statement would be available on Thurs
day when the embassy reopened.
Malaek said this important political turning 
point stemmed from the Iranian belief that
Iraqi missile attacks on Iranian cities were a 
Security council-sanctioned attempt to force 
Iran to accept U.N. Resolution 598, the news
paper reported.
That resolution calls for a military ceasefire 
by both sides in the eight-year old war and for 
retreat of both Iran and Iraq to internationally 
recognized borders.
Failed Panama coup 
incites chaos, riots
PANAMA CITY, Panama (AP)  Thou
sands of demonstrators poured into the streets 
of the capital Wednesday after rebellious sol
diers failed to seize the headquarters of the 
nations military strongman, Gen. Noriega.
It was the largest outpouring of opposition to 
the military-dominated government since 
civilian opponents began trying to force 
Noriega's departure as head of the Panama 
Defense Forces last summer.
Protesters erected flaming barricades across 
hundreds of streets throughout Panama City, 
but riot police and soldiers were strangely 
absent as public employees and private citi
zens sharply escalated demonstrations begun 
two days ago.
Nearby residents heard the sharp clatter of 
light arms fire inside the walled headquarters 
of the Panama Defense Forces starting at about 
8:15 am. It continued for at least half an hour.
They were kisses, Noreiga said in response 
to reporters questions about the gunshots 
about an hour after the firing ended.
Noriega appeared at the top of a stairway on 
one side of the headquarters building dressed 
in civilian clothes and accompanied by mem
bers of his high command.
S. Korea proposes new 
ties with N. Korea
SEOUL, South Korea (AP)  President Roh 
Tae-Woo last Monday proposed ending a 
diplomatic war of attrition with rival North 
Korea and indicated that he would tolerate 
moves by Western countries to improve rela
tions with the communist north.
Its time to change our foreign policy in a 
more practical way, ending a diplomatic war 
of attrition with North Korea, Roh said after 
getting a briefing from the Foreign Ministry.
After winning last December's presidential 
elections, Roh said he would consider chang
ing the so-called simultaneous cross recogni
tion proposal.
The idea calls for the United States and 
Japan, Seoul's major allies, to recognize North 
Korea while the Soviet Union and China, 
Pyongyangs principal allies, would open ties 
with South Korea.
South Korea supports the idea but North 
Korea opposes it.
Now, Roh said, South Korea, backed by its
growing national power and international stat
ure, would not mind if the United States and 
Japan improve ties with North Korea without 
reciprocal actions by the Soviet Union and 
China.
Summer Studies
Need a clue about what to do this summer? 
Check out summer classes at Carnegie Mellon!
The 1988 Carnegie Mellon Summer Studies 
Catalog is now available in front of Warner Hall 
Room 111, from the Summer Studies Office in 
Warner Hall 108, or by calling x6620.
See our full page ad on page 16 of The Tartan 
for more details on courses available.
U.S. military troops 
land in Honduras
WASHINGTON (AP)  The first of 3,200 
American infantry and airborne troops flew to 
Honduras Thursday in the most dramatic show 
of U.S. force in the six-year Nicaraguan war. 
Senate Democrats said President Reagan was 
guilty of overreaction.
The White House described the movement 
as an emergency deployment readiness exer
cise triggered by what it called the invasion of 
Honduras by 1,500 to 2,000 Nicaraguan forces 
pursuing Contra rebels.
But the Nicaraguan government said again 
that its troops had not crossed the border and 
called on the United Nations and the Organiza
tion of American States to establish what the 
facts are.
Shortly after 7 am, two battalions, about
2,000 troops, of the 82nd Airborne Division 
from Fort Bragg, N.C., began leaving on a 
three hour flight to Palmerola Air Force Base 
in Honduras, about 125 miles from the re
ported hostilities.
Those troops and an additional two battal
ions from the 7th Infantry Division at Fort Ord, 
Calif., due to leave later Thursday, will be 
stationed at Palmerola.
Defense Secretary Frank Carlucci said U.S. 
soldiers will conduct exercises in Honduras 
for about 10 days and reiterated that there are 
no plans for them to engage in combat.
Carlucci said the full 3,126-member force 
was expected to be in the country by last 
Friday night.
The plan is for the exercise to last approxi
mately 10 days, Carlucci said on ABC-TVs 
Good Miming America.
There are no plans for these troops to en
gage in combat, and we never comment on 
contingency plans, of course, he said.
Fighting continues between Nicaraguan 
government forces and the Contra rebels, with 
the U.S.-backed rebels forced to pull back 
from some of their positions, Carlucci said.
We dont have an accurate count of casual
ties, but people are being wounded and killed, 
he said.
Carlucci said it was also difficult to tell how 
many Sandinista troops had crossed the Hon
duran border because the incursion was taking 
place in a remote area. He said 1,500 to 2,000
Sandinista troops have been amassed in thr 
border area since March 1.
House committee votes 
to increase min. wage
WASHINGTON (AP)The House Education and Labor committee voted Wednesday 
to raise the federal minimum wage to $5.05 an 
hour in several steps over the next four years.
Chairman Augustus F. Hawkins, D-Calif., 
said the full house will take up the measure 
within 10 days after the members return from 
their Easter recess on April 11.
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., chair
man of the senate Labor and Human Re
sources committee, said on the previous Fri
day his panel would consider a similar meas
ure during the week of April 11.
Labor Secretary Ann Mclaughlin had told 
the committee that senior White House advis
ers would urge President Reagan to veto any 
legislation raising the minimum wage over 
three years to $4.65, the amount approved by 
the House Labor Standards Subcommittee.
Last week, however, the full committee 
approved an amendment by Rep. Carl C. Perk
ins, D-Ky., to raise the minimum wage 40 
cents more per hour during a fourth year of the 
bill.
Under the measure approved today, the cur
rent minimum wage of $3.35 an hour would be 
increased to $3.85 in 1989, $4.25 in 1990, 
$4.65 in 1991 and $5.05 in 1992.
Local
News
Impatient Pitts, man 
punches paramedicO
PITTSBURGH  A man angry about the 
time it took for an ambulance to arrive to aid 
his injured brother has been charged with 
punching a paramedic in the face. Police iden
tified the man as 21-year-old Jaspar Braggs of 
Pittsburgh. He was charged with simple as
sault. The paramedic, Keven Braun, was 
treated for minor cuts and bruises Thursday at 
South Side Hospital in Pittsburgh. The ambu^ ) 
lance was called to the scene after Braggs 14- 
year-old brother cut his forehead in a fall. 
Police say Braggs was apparently frustrated 
because he thought the paramedics took too 
long to respond to his call.
News Briefs appear courtesy of Dow Jones, Inc.
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center 26ft-2922
After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator will help you reach the staff member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh.............................................................. 782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive listening
Drug Connection..................................................................... 854-0700
An alcohol/ drug crisis hotline, 5 - 9 pm
Tel-Aid..................................................................................... 281-4664
A Series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safety issues. 
Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh telephone directory. 
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs 
Morewood Gardens - E Tower

---------------------------------------------------

March 22,1988The TartanPage 3
Construction of technology center to begin in fall
By CARLOS FRANCO
Tartan Staffwriter
This fall Carnegie Mellon will begin con
struction on a high-technology center which 
will house part of Mellon Institute. The $17 
million necessary for the construction on the 
old Jones and Laughlin Steel plant site was 
I ovided by the Commonwealth of Pennsyl
vania on January 27.
First and foremost, this is an 
educational institution. It is 
not a development company.
 Sandra Hemingway
Fifty acres along the bank of the Monongahela River has been set aside for industrial 
development. The Commonwealth of Penn
sylvania and the city of Pittsburgh have spent 
about $26 million on the purchase and im
provement of the site.
The improvements are necessary in order to 
ready the land for construction. These im
provements are such things as building access 
roads, improving the river bank, and installing 
water and sewer lines.
In addition to the money that has already 
been spent, the Commonwealth of Pennsylva
nia has provided Carnegie Mellon with a $17 
million grant with which to build an applied 
research building.
The Commonwealth has also given the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh land and provided it with 
funding for construction of its own building on 
the J&L site. The Pitt building will house its 
health care operations.
Construction on the 100,000 square-foot 
CMU research building is scheduled to begin 
in the fall. The target completion date is the fall 
of 1991.
Once the building is completed, it will house 
the core research operations which are cur
rently in Mellon Institute. According to Direc
tor of Real Estate Development Sandra J. 
Hemingway, the move will allow the vacated 
space to be occupied entirely by academic 
departments such as biology and chemistry.
The industrial development project is a joint 
venture between Carnegie Mellon, the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh, the City of Pittsburgh, 
and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Carnegie Mellon has been provided with 10 
acres of land. This land is to be given to and
developed by CMU in stages. As one stage is 
completed, the University will receive another 
portion on which to begin development, if it 
has satisfactorily met the terms of the grant.
One of the terms of the grant is that the 
University must match the $17 million pro
vided by the grant with money it raises from 
outside firms.
The project will not entail a capital invest
ment by Carnegie Mellon. Responding to why 
CMU will not risk its own money through a 
capital venture in the high-tech project, Hem
ingway stated, We will never put the Univer
sity in jeopardy, and we will never change 
those priorities. First and foremost, this is an 
educational institution. It is not a development 
company.
The money raised by CMU from outside
firms will serve in the construction of a second 
building. The space in the second building will 
be leased to private firms.
The construction of the second building is to 
take place simultaneously with that of the 
applied research building. Hemingway stated 
that it is hoped that both buildings can open 
about the same time.
The high-tech site is an effort by Pittsburgh 
to stimulate the economy. Hemingway stated 
that, historically, Pittsburgh does not retain its 
college graduates. Instead of going to work in 
Pittsburgh, they go elsewhere to seek work.
The city is hoping to keep college graduates 
in the area by luring private industry here. By 
combining CMUs expertise in computers, 
software engineering, artificial intelligence, 
and manufacturing protocols with Pitts ex
pertise in health care, biotechnology, and bio
engineering, the city of Pittsburgh hopes to 
attract an array of different companies into the 
area.
These companies will provide jobs and tax 
revenue necessary to revitalize the Pittsburgh 
area. An impact analysis was done, and it is 
estimated that the project will generate one 
half billion dollars in salaries and 22 million 
dollars in tax revenue 10 years from now.
The people who will work at the new site will 
not be required to do anything on campus. 
Work on the site is purely voluntary. Accord
ing to Hemingway, faculty and students will 
not be required to commute between the site 
and campus. The high-tech center will, how
ever, provide an opportunity for jobs to those 
who desire them.
photo courtesy LTV Steel Corporation
The Pittsburgh Technology Center will be built on the former location of the Jones and Laughlin Pittsburgh Works Hot Strip Mill. The 
photo shows the plant in 1937. It was closed in 1981 and later torn down to make way for the Center. The new center will house research 
facilities for Carnegie Mellon, Pitt, and private industry. Inset: The Center will be located on the Monongahela River.
Warner Hall tight-lipped about Birges departure
By JONATHAN LEVY
Tartan Staffwriter
University administrators refuse to comment 
about the circumstances surrounding former 
Chemistry Department Head Robert Birges 
suspension. Last September Birge was sus
pended by Mellon College of Science Dean 
Robert Sekerka after an external Chemistry 
Department account was discovered.
Birge did not lose his status as a professor at 
that time. However, on January 1 he accepted 
a position as a professor in the Chemistry 
Department at Syracuse University.
When the account was discovered, Carnegie 
Mellons Department of Internal Audit began 
an investigation which has since been com
pleted. The results have not been made public, 
even within the Chemistry Department, and 
the administration has been unwilling to talk 
about Birge. Vice President for Business Af
fairs, Fred Rogers said that his only comment 
on the matter was no comment. Provost 
Angel Jordan read the official statement made 
when Birge resigned, but would not expand on 
it.
The statement says that [Birges] perform
ance in a number of areas has been outstand
ing. He has hired excellent faculty members 
and has made major strides in rebuilding the
department... In many ways, he has been an 
excellent faculty member with high external 
visibility. The statement goes on to say that 
...the University and Dr. Birge have devel
oped irreconcilable differences on the manner 
in which the fiscal affairs of the Department of 
Chemistry have been managed. As a result of 
these differences, there has been a mutual 
agreement to allow Dr. Birge to resign....
Birge, who came to CMU in 1984, says that 
he believes the results of the audit satisfied the 
University, and that the matter has been con
cluded. He explained that his decision to leave 
was a personal one made with very good 
positive feelings about how things are devel
oping in the Chemistry Department.
Birge said that he set up the checking account 
in question with department money to cover 
minor expenses which could not be processed 
quickly enough through normal channels. He 
cited the example of last minute expenses 
which arise in recruiting potential faculty 
members.
Birge set up the account, but said that he gave 
Chemistry Department staff members permis
sion to use it. He admitted that I made a very 
bad decision to open up that account. Accord
ing to Birge such accounts are permitted at 
some universities and he faults himself for
failing to find out whether they were permitted 
at Carnegie Mellon.
Because the results of the investigation have 
not been given to members of the department, 
other chemistry professors are hesitant to 
comment on Birges actions beyond agreeing 
with the administration's assessment that 
Birge did a good job as chairman while at 
Carnegie Mellon. Acting Department Head 
Aksel Bothner-By thinks that Birge probably 
had the good of the department at heart in 
whatever he may have done.
Members of the Chemistry Department are 
primarily interested in making sure that the 
growth which occurred under Birge continues. 
The department is currently searching for a 
new department head. Bothner-By says that a 
new head will most likely be appointed around 
the beginning of 1989.
Chemistry Professor Charles Brooks, who is 
on the search committee, said that the depart
ment is not planning to select a current faculty 
member for two reasons. The first, he says, is 
that none of the current faculty members are 
interested in taking the job. Most are either 
junior faculty or have been department heads 
in the past.
Brooks said the second reason for looking 
outside the department is that it offers an
opportunity to add another professor. Birge's 
speciality is molecular electronics, but the 
Chemistry Department is not limiting the 
search for a head to any particular area of 
chemistry. Brooks says the only requirement 
is that the person hired should be supportive of 
research in advanced materials and biochem
istry because the department is moving to
wards those areas.
Lawrence Nafie, Head of Chemistry at 
Syracuse University, says that the accusations 
against Birge at Carnegie Mellon were of 
some concern to us in deciding whether to 
hire Birge. However, Nafie says that after 
receiving the official statement from the 
administration at Carnegie Mellon, we felt 
that there was no wrongdoing. Birge inter
viewed at Syracuse in 1983 or 1984 and the 
Chemistry Department was in the process of 
making him an offer before he decided to come 
to Carnegie Mellon.
No major procedural changes have been 
made to avoid similar problems in the future at 
Carnegie Mellon. Bothner-By said that one or 
two university-wide memoranda have been 
sent out and all expenses now must be signed 
by two people. Otherwise, he says, the ac
counting process is the same as before Birges 
account was discovered.

---------------------------------------------------

WdOO=S IV H19L HddV 300 3UV
SNoaiiad ivas uiunsvadi
m>M (m mu
rm
>1830 OJNI 3H1 
IV WdT 00: V H92 HOUVW i 
>1830 GdNI 08IXS 
V 310V11VAV 3HV SNGIXiXSd
ivas mvd 1-
S1V3S ONIddS ZVISO
ivas ONidds 1.^dns
ivas ONIddS 1.IOS dINOO
ivas mvd 1
sivas ONidds cVdO
sivas ONidds zSOIAI
sivas ONidds cSS^H
sivas ONidds v110
:uado s\ees
(Suiniuy J'
n:
iy
luepjsajdluauiujdAOO iuapnjs
rv. ????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? Jz'--..................................................................................................................................... J%)
-N)
-V
 33d S3IHAUOV iNaanis dnox % aaaNru 3. >v>
: pudUB 1,UB0 no// udsn - WJ 88 lOtM uo seo/muis
' -Vr- )-Nr*. -v-Nr- %>r-. %.fv.r- Th
%>r- *Nr>.fw.
 >
. -v>
fv. )-3
**N
 3
 uJd 00^8 lAIOOU 113dd3HM 3
:
 8861- MU ||Jdv Aepsjnm 3
 *3 ,N) S3ivaiaNvo 3H ea aivaaa iviiN3aiS3dd v rth sn mor 3 -N>
flOA OJ JUBJJOdlUI 9JB
|Bqj sanssi jnoqe ^uiqj
JU9piS9JJ[ JU9UIUJ9AO*) )U9pn)
hth sajepipuBD 9qj op jeq^V
 . .............................................fvl lVclLllllltLLtLtCLLLtCLLLLCCCLLLLCCLCCCLLLLCLi.i.iiiillllllillllll
}{B9jqjno 9qj rnthh psqnsaj sqjB9p [BJ9A9S 
guqB9q iBnjuids 9zSBqdui9 qoiqM suiq9B9j 
jsijugps ireijsuq^ sjooqos 9qj Xq psjsd 
-UIBq SBA\ 9J9qj UOlJBUpDBA XjBJUrqOA 31JJL 
5861 ui S3[SB3U1 qjIM U9*>U)S 3J3M *HI lfBS|3 
jo 33j[03 Bidpuuj hG sjugpnjs 001 J9AO
SJB9/
JU939J Ul S>[B3JqjnO JB|{UI{S p33U3|J3dx3 9ABq
uB;qojp\ jo Xjisi3AjUQ gqj puB 9jbjs oqo 
Uljiaqo 'p9||93UB3 9J9A\ S9Jni33| pUB sXcjd 
syods XjISJ9A|Un JJB S9[SB91U p9JDBJJU09 XjjS 
-J9AIUQ UOJSOg JB sjugpnjs J9JJB 5861 UI 
s)(B9jqjno sndixiBD oj p9^ui|
JO guouie 9J9A\ [OJJUO3 9SB9S|Q JOJ SJ91U93 
gqj oj pgjjodgj s9jsB9iu jo S9SB9 9qj jo j|cq 
861 UI "9pB99p siqj Suunp iu9ouo9 qqegq 
jofeui B U99q 9ABq S9|LU9pid9 989||OD kUO|J 
-Bziunuiiuj jgdojd ui dsS siqj jo qnsgj b sy
X^poj p9sn s; 9Up9BA SnjjA 9AIJ V '9AIJ99JJ9 
ss9| 9q oj punoj J9jB| lGei q9iqA\ 9UI99BA siqj 
P9A|999J UO||||UJ 9UO X|JB9JsI p9Sn SBA\ 9UID 
-DBA SnJIA p911!^ B 961 pUB % | U99A\J9Q
6961 J Joud 9up 
-9BA S9JSB9U1 p9A|999J psq Xgqj j; jo sqjuoiu 
51 jo 9b 9qj 9JOj9q pgzjuniuuji U99q pBq X9qj 
I aSed uiojj panui}uo9
S9|SB9ui joj p9z;unuiui; snduiB3
*S9UJSnpU| SUOjJB9IUnUJlU009|9J pUB 
99BdsOJ9B 9qj OJ SJDnpOjd 9JBMJJOS SuipiAOjd 
UO pgsnDOJ SBq XuBduJOD 9qx JU9UJUJ9A03 
pUB /Cljsnpllj JOJ SIU9JSXS JU9UJ9BUBIU UOIJ 
-BUUOJU; |B9jliqD9J JO J91[ddns pUB J9dO|9A9p 
B s! JI 861 U| papunoj dSI -NHAUO-Via
UO[J9J/^ 3l9UJB3 JO JU9p|S9jd JJ9/<3 pJB 
-qoi^j pgjBjs ttXj;uniuujOD siqj jo ju9iudo|9A9p 
9IUI0U099 gqj Uj 9|OJ P99UBAPB 9JOUJ B 9>|BJ 
oj uojsjogp jno sjjoddns XuBduioo 9Aissgj 
-3S Siqj Ul JU9UIJS9AUj S4UO|J9^ 9|9UJB3
861 UI >J31tNHOd
OJ p9J|nJ99J SBA\ 9q U9qM UigjsXs JU9U1 
-9BUBUi 9SBqBJBp 3UIJ99U|SU9 3'HaHO 
JO JU9UldO|9A9p 9qj UO UBUIJSBg qj|A\ p3>jJOM 
puB JOjBJoqB^ SDjqdBJQ-av^ stuo|[9i^ 
9j9UJB3 JB J9q9JB9S9J B SBM jU9p|S9jd 
pgjujoddB X[A\9U s^gxiM^od 'tony qy 
861 u! ^UBduioo 9qj pgpunoj 
pue 3861 u! uB|d ssguisnq
gujdo|9A9p pgjJBjs 9J9q sjossgjojd qjoq jpJBq 
-Uj9q |9nUJBS puB UBU1JSB3 S9[JBq3 UO|[9^\ 
9nckrhGj rhthh jjoddns qji^ suoijBJ9do uB9q
>I31W>10d U9A3 P9UBJS >J31WHOJ
qj|A\ diqsuojjBjgj s uo|[9^ 9i9UJB3 
SupuBuy jo punoj gjBAd 
UOq|IUJ 9$ B JO JJBd 9JB SJU9UIJS9AUI 9S9qj
JO qjog "MSltM^Od u! P3JS9ern psq ooj jf jsqj
JU9UJ9DUnOUUB JU909J St|^f PUjq^q X|9SO|3 
SA\0|J0J JU9UJJS9AU| S4UO[|9J/\ 9lS9UJB3 
j9jnduio3 9|ddy jo sjgpunoj 9qj jo 9uo sqof 
9A9JS Xq p9[ /(uBduioo jgjnduioD M9u 3qj sorh 
jbb3N u! hrkrnhlkeru jgqjo J|9qx 'uBd 
-uioD Xoiouq99j-qgiq G rn hrkrhhlkerg j99Jip 
PU099S StUO||9J\ 9|9UJB3 SI JU3U1JS9AUI 9qX 
UO||9^\ 9|g9UJB3 UIOJJ JU9LU 
-JS9AUj UB p9AI999J SBq JI JBqi ^BpiJJ p9DUtlOU 
-UB SUI9JSXS JU9UI9SBUBUI UOIJBUJJOJU} [BO
-;uqD9j joj sjDnpojd 9jba\jjos jo jgqddns ppq 
XpjBAud b >3lwyOd  HDtf nasnid
uijy 9JBAvyos qgjnqsyij
UI SJS9AUJ UQ1I3J\[ 99UJB3s;soq 9iddy
JB9X JX9U UOJJ9J/^ 919UJB3 OJ UJnj9J B UipnpUI S9SnduiB9 99JJ09 jgqjo UO 
sXBjdsip hGhnrnnl josuods oj suB|d SBq 9ddy 'ssgoons 9nq G U99q 9ABq oj sj9pisuo9 9|ddy 
qDiqAV JU9A9 UB qons Ul 9JBdpiJJBd OJ XjJUnOD 9qj UI 99HO0 JSJIJ 9qj SI U0J19I^ 919UJB3
*9JBA\JJOS JU9UI9B
-UBUI UOIJBUUOJUl M9U St9(ddy P9JBJJSUOUI9P 9q q9iqA\ UI ttpJB3J9dXH UI>IF1 P9JJIJU9 
uoiss9s qoB9 Suunp 9jnj99i b pgju9S9jd J99U|U3 sui9jsX 9|ddy ub qjgdspriH inBj 
uid 6-5 puB uid uiojj :su0iss9s oavj ui oqqnd 9qj oj u9do sba\ XBjdsjp 
gqj, J9jndui09 qsojupBjv 9|ddy 9qj joj  u9JJua\ psq S9Apsui9qj Kgqj qoiqM 9jba\jjos
JO---9JBMJJOS SUIJSIX9 JO S9SIJ p9JBJJSUOUI9p SJU9pnjS UOIPJ^ 919UJB3 0 UBM
uioojjiBg oqi^s gqj u; XBjdsip 9hG,hhtl ^BXJqSiBJJS hlhnh lhn ppq 
jgjnduioj 9ddy SJU9A9 snduiB9 pgzpqqnd hltrn 9qj jo 9uo bnrnGhh99 uj gi qojBj^i uo
iThearatn ssauisng rarOIZ
Nvwsnas ssan a
SX q3JBJ\[ uo uiooj||eg oqi^s aqj u; AB|d 
-sip 9jbv\jjos >||BXjq!BJJS [enuue jsjij stjajnduio^ 9(ddy ui a)edpi;jed sjuapnj^
uiniquasoy Xq ojoqd
8861 ZZ M3J8JVubijbx 3MXsSbj

---------------------------------------------------

March 22,1988The TartanPage 5
Refusnik discusses life in Soviet Union
By CHRIS YOUNG
Tartan Assistant News Editor 
Victor Brailovsky from the University of Tel 
Aviv, a Soviet scientist who was refused a visa 
to leave Russia for 17 years, appeared on 
campus last Wednesday to discuss Refusnik 
Scientists in the Soviet Union, scientists who 
are denied permission to leave the Soviet 
Union.
In Soviet schools the history 
and philosophy books totally 
ignore Jewish history and reli
gion.
 Victor Brailovsky
According to Brailovsky, he applied for a 
family exit visa in 1972 to leave Russia and go 
to Israel. The Soviet government granted exit 
for him and his son, but denied permission for 
his wife. They falsely accused her of knowing 
Soviet technological secrets. As Brailovsky 
said, That was a lie. It was an excuse. [They 
used it] to justify not letting [him or his son] 
leave too on grounds that it violated human 
rights to separate a family.
Then in 1974 Brailovsky and other promi
nent Soviet scientists organized the Interna
tional Seminar in Moscow, a seminar for 
scientists from all over the world to share ideas 
and publish work with Soviet scientists. Later 
that same year, former Pres. Richard Nixon
visited Moscow. Brailovsky and his group of 
scientists applied for visas to see the U.S. 
president, but were denied visas and subse
quently arrested.
After serving time in Soviet prison, 
Brailovsky resumed work with the seminar. At 
times they had to smuggle out documents and 
illegally publish their journals. They tried to 
incorporate works of Jewish thinking in their 
journals because of the lack of it taught in 
Soviet schools. But eventually, in 1980, 
Brailovsky was arrested on charges of slander
ing the Soviet government and sentenced to 
five years of exile in a desert.
After discussing his status as a Jewish re
fusnik, Brailovsky told the audience of the 
horrible anti-Semitic trend in the Soviet gov
ernment. In Soviet schools, he said, the 
history and philosophy books totally ignore 
Jewish history and religion.
In addition, he said that the Soviet govern
ment blames everything on Jews. They blame 
alcoholism on Jews, and even blamed Cher
nobyl on Jews. Over the last 15 years, more 
and more Jews have been denied powerful and 
important jobs. They arent even allowed to 
attend prominent universities.
Concerning Soviet policy on granting exit 
visas, Brailovsky commented that they offi
cially have an exit principle of only accepting 
people who have first-degree relatives in other 
countries. But sometimes they are a little more 
liberal.
According to Brailovsky, exit policy is al
Great Expectations  Where precision haircutting is a tradition, as well as an art ...and at affordable prices.
WITH THIS COUPONsave $2.00 <*.<>Precision Haircutcomplete with shampoo * blow style
0CUT*
I 
IiJSS* March31, 1988^___________COTCTtTWRSj
leSsdtwCasymwmppS
Great Styles Start at ...iOA
APPOINTMENT lS/ftMOTNfCt SSAPV Wtll |
CHPCCTflTWnSPRECISION HAIRCUTTERS237 Atwood Street
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office 
687-3500
ways fluctuating between being very strict and 
being liberal, so that no one ever actually has 
any idea whether or not they will be granted 
exit.
A common tactic the Soviets use in prevent
ing exit is requiring boys of 15 years to join the 
army. After someone has been in the army or 
worked with any kind of Soviet high technol
ogy he or she can be accused of knowing too 
many Soviet secrets. The purpose, said
The purpose is to create an 
atmosphere in which people 
cannot plan.
Brailovsky, is to create an atmosphere in 
which people cannot plan.
Under todays unstable situation many 
people are afraid to apply for an exit visa, 
Brailovsky said. Often if they are refused, 
they will then be arrested. But if the situation 
did become stable, there would be tens of 
thousands of exit applications.
Until 1967 and 1968, Brailovsky noticed no 
substantial requests from Jews for exit visas. 
But then, he said, the suppression and antiSemitism started up.
Brailovsky finished his discussion by focus
ing on a question raised by a member of the 
audience regarding Gorbachevs reforms. 
Brailovsky responded saying Glasnost is 
superficial. It was designed to impress the 
West and to improve the distressed Soviet 
economy...they are responding to many cul
tural crises...they all know that the system 
doesnt work.
Brailovskys lecture was part of a three week 
tour of American universities sponsored by 
the Committee of Concerned Scientists.
Cyert speaks to 
Faculty Senate 
about salaries
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan News Editor
President Richard Cyert gave a pres
entation on faculty salaries to the Fac
ulty on March 14. The average salary of 
a full professor here is $59,600, up 110 
percent in ten years.
One of the most interesting facts re
vealed by Dr. Cyert was the tenure rate 
at Carnegie Mellon, which stood at 56.7 
percent in 1987. Tenure is a status 
granted to a professor after a trial period. 
It protects the professor from summary 
dismissal.
The tenure rate was lower than all 
other schools to which CMU was com
pared except Harvard. Cyert called this 
a reasonably stable rate and said it 
represented a somewhat younger fac
ulty than other colleges.
Cyert then showed the results of sur
veys of other colleges salaries. Each de
partment at CMU picked the colleges to 
which it wished to be compared.
Biology, Decision Sciences, Psychol
ogy, and Computer Science were four 
departments which had salaries well 
above the median.
The department which performed the 
worst was the English department, 
which came in last among the six 
schools to which it was compared. Sala
ries in the Chemical Engineering de
partment were also below the median.
photo by Chris Young
Victor Brailovsky, a professor at the University of Tel Aviv in Israel, told the audience of 
his experiences under an oppressive Soviet government.
ia
yljiAiMjtiA^iAiA^riiiiiAiAAiiiAiid
CMU
Computer Store
UCC - A Level X2636 ps00@andrew
Hours: Mon., Thurs. 10-7 Tues., Wed., Fri. 10 - 4:30 
For a current price list: Type HELP COMPUTER-STORE-PRICES on
any TOPS system
NOTICE:
The Computer Store is now offering 
a Macintosh disk recovery service. 
There will be a $10.00 charge, 
which will include a new diskette.
The Computer Store cannot guarantee that all disks/files can be recovered.

---------------------------------------------------

T MJL
THE iM][POTIf3 SQIMi IIPAGOTIMT IS AGAIN HOLDING ITS 
[PO&QM&m? ^E^BSITSMTOINL THE PURPOSE IS TO:
A) REDUCE THE LINES AND WAITING AT
REGISTRATION.
B) ATTEMPT TO FILL ALL STUDENTS REQUIREMENTS.
STUDENTS WHO ARE PLANNING TO TAKE COURSES SHOULD DO 
THE FOLLOWING:
FILL OUT THE PRELIMINARY REGISTRATION 
FORM.
THESE FORMS CAN BE OBTAINED IN WEAN HALL 
6126.
RETURN COMPLETED FORM APRIL 8TH TO DYANE 
HARRIS IN WEAN HALL 6126.
STUDENTS STATUS IN CS COURSES WILL BE 
POSTED OUTSIDE WEAN HALL 6126 BEGINNING 
APRIL 11TH.
ON APRIL 13TH AND 14TH HAVE R3D SIGNED AT 
THE FORMAL REGISTRATION ON THE FOURTH 
FLOOR OF WEAN HALL (ONLY PEOPLE WHO 
ARENT ON THE APPROVED LIST SHOULD SHOW UP 
ON THE 13TH AND 14TH. IF YOU ARE ON THE 
APPROVED LIST YOU CAN COME IN AND GET YOUR 
FORM SIGNED THE WEEK OF THE 18TH.)
IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS, CALL OR SEE DYANE HARRIS IN WEAN HALL 
6126. EXT. 2859

---------------------------------------------------

March 22,1988The TartanPage 7
Crime and Incident Report: 3/9 to 3/17
3/9/88 CRIMINAL TRESPASSING 3 am 
Student reported black male sleeping in hall of 
601 Clyde Street. Security found actor hiding 
behind fire door. Actor was arrested for crimi
nal trespassing, possession of instrument of 
crime, and burglary, after items from burgla
ries in Shadyside were found on his person. 
City police had been looking for the burglar for 
some time.
3/11/88 HARASSMENT 5:12 pm Staff 
member followed by man from CFA parking 
lot to Margaret Morrison parking lot. Security 
advised man to stay off campus.
3/12/88 SUSPICIOUS PERSON 4:23 pm 
Man sitting on hillside on south side of Hen
derson Hall. Man described as white, 58, 
brown shoulder length hair, wearing brown 
jacket and blue jeans.
3/12/88 THEFT 10:28 pm AB reported 
microphone, equipment cases, clips, and other 
items used in PA system for Greek Sing stolen 
from Carnegie Music Hall. On 3/13 at 9 am all 
items were returned anonymously to the Infor
mation Desk.
3/13/88 SUSPICIOUS PERSON 1:26 am 
Female student saw man run around rear of 
618 Clyde Street after she got out of her car. 
Man was described as white, 6, 220 pounds, 
with short dark curly hair, and wearing a dark 
jacket, possibly with lettering on the back.
3/13/88 SPECIAL 5:44 pm Witness in 
Wean Hall heard strange noises coming from 
stairway (Architects Leap). Police found 
male student dropping a large hunk of steel 
down the stairs. The piece of steel was confis
cated.
3/13/88 SUSPICIOUS PERSON 11:38 pm 
Man staring into a students window at 601 
Clyde Street. Victim described him as white, 
tall, husky build, about 40 years old with 
graying hair, and wearing a light-colored 
jacket.
3/14/88 SPECIAL 12:43 am Student who 
couldnt fit into full escort van began arguing 
with dispatcher. Student complained about 
driver taking the long route. The dispatcher 
called Security.
3/14/88 THEFT 10:23 am Denim jacket was 
stolen from closet at Kappa Sigma party on 3/
5. Approximate value $45.
3/14/88 MEDICAL 5:26 pm Mellon Insti
tute  student was sprayed with acid when 
experiment exploded. Student was taken to 
emergency shower; paramedics then trans
ported victim to West Penn Hospital. Victim 
suffered lacerations on arms and face and 
bums on face.
3/14/88 MEDICAL 8:52 pm Female student 
was found in Morewood Gardens semi-con
scious and vomiting. Paramedics transported 
victim to Presbyterian Hospital. Victim had 
been drinking hard liquor from 6 pm to 8:30 
pm.
3/14/88 DISORDERLY CONDUCT 8:52 
pm Four students in Morewood Gardens were 
arrested by city police when they became 
unruly when paramedics were treating a fifth 
student (see above). Two were charged with 
underage drinking and the two others were 
charged with public intoxication.
3/15/88 BURGLARY 10:30 am Threequarter inch copper piping stolen from conSenate debates funding for Amnesty
continued from page 1
federal government for funding.
Senators Matthew Ruben, Pete Berger, and 
Greenberg were vocal supporters of the sec
ond faction, which urged that Amnesty receive 
funding status. Berger summarized part of 
their argument saying, if X number of stu
dents want something and want their activities 
fee spent on it, they should get it.
The third position was voiced by Senators 
Dustin Frazier and Mukherjee. They main
tained that Amnesty should remain non
funded, but could request a special allocation.
In a close vote, the motion to change the 
funding status failed. Greenberg immediately 
moved that Amnesty be granted a special allo
cation of $379. Again when Graupera asked 
that the motion be referred to committee, his
tractor in basement of Porter Hall. Approxi
mate value: $800.
3/15/88 HIT AND RUN 9:41 pm Students 
car hit by another car in fraternity parking area. 
Drivers door was dented.
3/15/88 FIRE ALARM 10:55 pm More
wood Gardens  student was burning excess 
wax off a candle and burned her finger, which 
caused her to drop the candle into a trash can. 
Papers in the trash can caught fire and were not 
doused until after the fire alarm had been 
triggered.
3/16/88 SUSPICIOUS PERSON 6:19 am 
Female student observed man loitering in 
Morewood Gardens computer room. Man was 
described as having a husky build, brown 
shoulder length hair and wearing a brown 
jacket.
3/16/88 MEDICAL 4:25 pm Student had 
been mixing chemicals in Hamerschlag Hall.
Several hours later he complained of in
fected finger. Victim transported to family 
doctor.
3/16/88 THEFT 10:00 am Minolta 35 mm 
camera removed from either an unlocked desk 
drawer or unlocked locker in Baker Hall. 
Camera valued at $250.
3/17/88 SPECIAL 9:53 pm Confused white 
male found on Forbes Ave. in front of Warner 
Hall. He claimed to be a CMU student, but did 
not have I.D. Man did possess a prescription 
and gold badge with Security on it. Man was 
released from custody when a student identi
fied him as another student.
3/17/88 DISORDERLY CONDUCT 
10:16 pm Doherty Hall 2210  male student 
verbally abused woman at ticket desk because 
he was denied admission to the movie. He had 
tried to enter the movie without a ticket. 
Compiled by JANET SUCHOCKAS
motion failed.
Mukherjee suggested that the Senate move 
into the committee of the whole, a parliamen
tary procedure that in effect turned the Senate 
into a large Funding and Recognition commit
tee with Mukherjee as the chair.
Senate then meticulously analyzed each line 
item of the $379 request, to the extent of 
spending several minutes discussing a $7 
request for pens. After considerable debate, 
the request had been pared down to $313.
At that point, Senator David Gantshar re
turned with Berger from the Tartan Grill, 
where he had spent most of the allocation 
debate. He asked that the special allocation be 
scrapped entirely and that Amnesty be given 
$200 for a fundraiser. Moore consented to this 
proposal, which was subsequently approved.
il-C VV t' * Xv>   o
*3-/u0 88<r-#CO
U, I*
i';)ll*,'H1;(i'I H-M.S.A,to
RECRUIT U.S.A., INC. (800) 325-9759
CITICORP PLAZA, 725 S. FIGUEROA ST., SUITE 3100 
LOS ANGELES, CA 90017 ^ PHONE: (213) 955-4900
/V \
V- .Vs
9
When you finally finish War and Peace, a small celebration 
is in order.
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 
SUMMER SESSION 88
2003 Sheridan Road 
Evanston, Illinois 60208
Please send my free copy of the 
Summer Session 88 catalog with financial 
aid and registration information. 
(Available mid-March)
Name
School Address
Home Address 
I City
SUte ZIP
Some, tom nuuMitlm...
Send the coupon or call 1-800-FINDS-NU 
(Inside Illinois call 312/491-4114)
I

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Get those gays out of Skibo
Get those gays out of Skibo or well blow it up at 11:00. 
At approximately 10:30 pm last Friday, an anonymous male 
called the Carnegie Mellon police with this threat and forced the 
evacuation of Skibo while the CMU Gay and Lesbian Alliance 
(GALA) was sponsoring a dance in the Wherrett Room.
Wait a minute... Isnt this Carnegie Mellon? Isnt this 1988? 
Thats the point: this is Carnegie Mellon, and this is 1988, and 
someone would blow up other people solely because of their 
sexual preference.
Its easy to condemn this one individual, but the bomb threat 
is only one small example of a much larger problem.
Sure, wed like to think that we solved discrimination in the 
60s. Our society has eliminated prejudice and can now turn its 
attention to other problems, like the deficit and nuclear war. 
But then reality breaks through the delusion. Violently. Kill 
the gays! Shoot the niggers! Dont trust the Jews!
The standard editorial of this type would condemn, in no 
uncertain terms, the perpetrator of last Fridays bomb scare. 
And we do. The bomb threat was a gross infraction of GALA 
members civil liberties.
But wed like to go further. The problem, it seems, lies in the 
way our society has traditionally treated homosexuals. Today 
we know that gays arent lepers; theyre just different. Appar
ently, however, not every CMU student is as enlightened as 
wed like to think.
A bomb threat is a very irrational reaction to a situation about 
which an individual feels personally threatened. Why? Igno
rance. The person who made the call and the people who bum 
the crosses are too shallow to overcome the stereotypes. They 
cant accept gays, or any other people who arent just like them, 
as individuals.
It wont be until everyone becomes a real adult  not merely 
in calendar age, but in mental development  that we can 
declare the discrimination dilemma solved.
Its time to grow up.
Womens history is more than 
lectures and seminarsjust
March is National Womens History month.
Youre probably thinking, Oh boyjust another month full 
of boring lectures and seminars. Youre probably right, too. The 
activities are not important, but the attention they attract to 
womens history is.
This celebration prompts us to ask what place women have at 
a technically-oriented university with a ratio of 2.2 men to each 
woman. Women are a minority, and they have special needs and 
interests. Are these needs being addressed?
Spirit and the Political Speakers Forum Board sponsored a 
lecture by co-founder of the Black Panthers Bobby Seale during 
Black History month, but no special notice was given to another 
minority group  women  for Womens History month on 
campus. Women do not have an active organization on-campus 
drawn from all colleges of CMU to organize such events.
One possible solution is a Womens Studies program. Even 
this approach is too narrow; mostly only women would take 
these courses. The broader co-ed audience, that truly needs to 
learn more about women  s history, would not take these courses 
because of lack of interest and lack of free electives.
Those who desire a more in-depth study are offered the Gender 
Studies minor being designed and the courses currently avail
able in the History and English departments such as Special 
Topics: Reading Feminism, Women in Western History, 
Women in American History, and Women and Inquiry: 
Values, Science and Society. Students taking such courses 
already recognize the value of studying womens history. 
Those who should be made aware, however, are not always able 
to or interested enough to sign up.
So how can a broader audience be reached? Perhaps core 
courses could devote a larger portion of their coursework to 
address womens issues, such as Intro to World History does. 
The problem once again is that these courses would be limited 
unless they were available in all colleges from CFA to CIT. 
On an even broader level, the campus media should address 
womens issues because it appeals to a more mainstream 
audience than specific courses would.
These issues cannot be answered in a single editorial, but like 
Womens History month, the intent is to raise awareness rather 
than to provide complete solutions.
Os t/om/\L
PEOPLE GOTTA 
Kill PAQUEE 
thUSB QE
Letters:
Gays in the Army: Readers respond
Editor:
Id like to respond to Thomas 
Heims column, Homosexuals cre
ate unnecessary problems in the 
military, which criticizes a recent 
appeals court decision opposing 
certain aspects of the U.S. militarys 
discriminatory policies regarding 
homosexuals.
Mr. Heims main argument in fa
vor of excluding homosexuals from 
military service is that U.S. military 
officers believe that homosexuals 
have an adverse effect on morale in 
the ranks. Although he doesnt say 
specifically what these morale prob
lems are or might be, the most obvi
ous problem that comes to mind is 
that homophobic individuals are 
likely to be uncomfortable around 
homosexuals and, thus, would be 
reluctant to work with them and 
perhaps be hostile or abusive toward 
them.
Setting aside whether there is good 
evidence for the truth of such specu
lations, the logic of such an argu
ment is, morally speaking, puzzling 
if not perverse. Imagine someone 
citing possible morale problems due 
to racism, antisemitism or sexism 
within the ranks and then arguing 
against Blacks, Hispanics, Jews or 
women being admitted to the mili
tary. (In fact, similar arguments 
were made in the past in favor of 
racially segregated units in the mili
tary, which existed until well after 
World War II, and against including
women in regular military service 
until quite recently. And I wouldnt 
be surprised if exclusionary policies 
with respect to Hispanics, Jews or 
other minorities were proposed or in 
existence at some time in the past. 
But few support such policies at the 
present time, at least not in public 
discussion.)
The morally appropriate response 
to such arguments is that those who 
harbor such prejudices are the ones 
at fault. If their prejudices result in - 
morale problems or other conflicts, 
it is they who should be criticized, 
reprimanded or even excluded from 
the military should the difficulties
that arise be serious enough. Isnt 
this generally how prejudice ought 
to be dealt with, rather than forcing 
its victims to suffer discrimination 
or exclusion?
Mr. Heim also mentions what 
seems, on the basis of several previ
ous [columns], to be a favorite ex
cuse of his for discriminatory treat
ment of homosexuals: AIDS. 
Granted that at the present time gay 
men in the U.S. are much more likely 
to suffer from the disease than are 
heterosexual men, its not at all clear 
what follows from this with respect 
to military policy. It raises no issue 
continued on page 10
Praise for Heim: Lets 
shoot all the faggots...
Editor:
I was truly inspired by Thomas 
Heims [column] about keeping
homosexuals out of the Army. We 
really do need to set Americas 
priorities straight once and for all. 
To hell with individual liberty! 
More might, more money to the 
military! Who needs balance of 
power; if Congress can make rules 
for the government and regulation of 
the land and naval force, why dont 
they just have the military lock up 
anyone that disagrees with them? 
Or, better yet, shoot them?
While were at it, lets get those 
goddamn women, niggers, Jews,
spies, Japs, and chinks out of the 
army too! Damn, I bet theyre dis
tracting as hell on a sub, and if I was 
wounded I sure wouldnt want any 
of that nigger blood  I fear they all 
use IV drugs and I for one dont want 
to catch AIDS from em.
Or, lets reinstate the draft, draft 
everyone, then shoot all the faggots, 
Jews, etc. Well save the women for 
breeding and entertainment; all we 
need is a couple of Jaws from Con
gress, right Thomas? Say, isnt 
Heim a Jewish name?
Neil Williams 
Junior, Philosophy
Buggy flagger says cop acted carelessly
Editor:
I am writing in response to a disor
derly conduct report in the crime and 
incident of the March 15 issue. I was 
a witness to that event and would 
like to clarify the actual proceed
ings. The incident occurred while 
my organization and a few others 
were on hill 1. I was at the top, 
flagging the cars. The procedure is to 
stop any cars that wish to drive 
through the hill, ask them to turn off
their headlights as it blinds the driv
ers, and wait until the hill is clear 
before they can proceed slowly 
down the hill. The wait is usually 
about a minute. Of course, we are 
considerate of the police emergency 
vehicles but in this incident, the offi
cer did not give any time to react.
What actually happened was that I 
saw a car coming down Schenley 
Drive rather quickly. It had a right 
tum signal on, so I started to flag it
down. There were barricades set up 
but enough room was in the middle, 
where I was standing, for a car to 
drive though. Not until the car was 
very close that I realized that it was 
a police car that had no intention of 
slowing down. At that moment, the 
officer turned on the flashing lights. 
My cooperation consisted of me 
diving out of the way as it was quite 
obvious that he had no intention of
continued on page 10

---------------------------------------------------

March 22,1988The TartanPage 9
r Inauirns Minds:
101 things to do with the measles
ih
Cc
By THE INQUIRING STAFF
Carnegie Mellons a great place to go to 
school: manure on the cut, two inches of snow 
on the ground, and measles in Donner. Two 
confirmed cases and everyone gets into a 
tizzy. Doesnt it seem 
suspicious that the 
outbreak occurred 
right after Channel 11 
filmed a commercial 
in the dorm? We wondered why Edye looked 
a little droopy on Nightwatch last week.
In truth, the virus was on campus before the 
Channel 11 balloon landed on Tech Field. 
However, since measles usually spread by cas
ual contact, a visitor to campus must have 
blessed us with the disease. You think that 
maybe, just maybe, it was the funny looking 
guy with the bow tie. You remember him... 
whats his name, the singer. We think he did 
something in Illinois last week, but we arent 
sure what. Oh well, he must not have been that 
important.
You dont think that Prince Chuck (BigEars) could have passed it on to the Great Dick 
over lunch a couple of weeks ago? Then again 
it might be Thome-a-zumas revenge. In any 
case, its here now. We might as well put up 
with it. After all, we put up with the room draw 
every year.
Think about all of the great things you can do 
when you have measles. Want to stop an 
invasion? Go to Honduras and breathe on the 
Sandinistas. Pissed off about your financial 
aid? Spend a week hanging around your state 
capital. When you go to Lauderdale, you dont 
have to worry about getting a disease. You can 
give one instead. And, by all means, make sure 
you exhale three times in the general direction 
of Warner Hall before you go home.
Its certainly better to have the measles over
1 Conservative Corner:
break than during classes. You dont honestly 
believe theyd cancel your classes or home
work for a rampant viral disease, do you? 
Theyd probably try to teach everything over 
Andrew while you lie in bed. That is, of course, 
if they could boot off everyone reading their 
mail.
So youre stuck with this disease, and youre 
real bummed. Look on the bright side; no more 
waiting in line for your paycheck at the 
cashiers office. Just walk in and yell, Guess 
what Ive got!  and watch the people clear out. 
Actually, you dont really need the measles. 
Just poke yourself with a red pen before you 
go; the people here are really gullible.
Another advantage is your roommates 
dippy girlfriend wont be around for at least a 
week. On the last day that youre contagious, 
breathe on her a lot. Hopefully shell get sick, 
and you wont see her for another week.
If you dont have the measles yet, you proba
bly dont want them. Heres the official word 
on preventative measures you can take. Sur
geon General C. Everett Koop has recom
mended breathing through a condom until the 
outbreak passes. However, be careful what 
you buy. You dont want any of the ones with 
spermicides. Health Services is doing their 
part by sending out a memo informing every
one to bury their heads in sand until Carnival.
That same memo outlines the first signs of 
the disease. We quote, The first symptoms of 
measles are high fever, runny nose, body 
aches, and fatigue. With these problems, they 
could diagnose you with the measles. They 
might also think you have AIDS. Even more 
likely, theyll quarantine you for having bu
bonic plague. At Carnegie Mellon, youre 
probably just an average student.
The Inquiring Staff is S. Levine, C. Williams, 
and R. Wilson
Divestment isnt helping anyone
By THOMAS A. HEIM
As Carnegie Mellon students clamor for the 
Board of Trustees to divest from U.S. compa
nies doing business in South Africa, they are 
ignoring the tremendous harm divestment has 
done to South African blacks. It is clear today 
that divestment and 
sanctions have polar
ized a portion of the 
South African gov
ernment in calling for 
stricter apartheid measures. Even moderate 
black leaders within South Africa have admit
ted that their call for divestment has been 
counter-productive and economically harmed
HKRBLOCKS CARTOON
"WITHIN THIS PECAPE WE WILL S6NPA MAH 
10 THE SOVIET SPACE CENTER ANP BRIN6 HIM BACK'1
blacks and their families.
Kelloggs, a U.S. company that continues to 
do business in South Africa, provides blacks 
with equal opportunities in hiring, manage
ment, and pay. The company has set up a 
school for black children in the nearby com
munity. Upon government investigation of 
black employees, Kelloggs refuses the police 
entrance to the buildings. This is the kind of 
fair and equitable treatment of blacks that 
American companies provide. When such 
companies as Kelloggs are forced to leave the 
region because institutions like CMU sell 
blocks of stock, sending the price down, Kel
loggs is forced to turn over operations to the 
Afrikaners. In this event, blacks lose the solid 
equitable treatment they once had, and if 
Kelloggs is unable to sell operations, they lose 
their jobs altogether.
The vehicle by which black South Africans 
can come to be an influence is not through 
tenor of the communist backed African Na
tional Congress, it is through economic power 
that makes them a vital part of the economy. 
The more black dollars that make up the South 
African economy, the more whites will be 
dependent on their cooperation, and will be 
forced to repeal apartheid in order to remain 
economically stable. Companies like Kel
loggs in the United States give blacks pay that 
they would not find from all white South 
Africans, management opportunities they 
wouldnt find, and a sheer number of jobs that 
South Africans cannot and will not provide. 
We should encourage our companies in South 
Africa; they are promoting the black welfare 
far faster than the divestment activists are.
The American left promotes the idea that op
posing divestment makes one a racist sympa
thizer of the South African system. Nothing 
could be further from the truth. Those who 
oppose divestment realize that it is the AmeriWhy Pat Robertson cant win...
He doesnt have a prayer
By ART BUCHWALD
If you recall, sometime back Pat 
Robertson said God asked him to run for 
President of the United States. So everyone 
has been wondering why Pat did so badly on 
Super Tuesday.
I went to the ____________________
source. God, why 
did You let Pat 
Robertson down on 
Super Tuesday?
It was his own 
fault. I never get in
volved in the prima
ries.
But Robertson 
believed that since 
You gave him the 
green light to run,
You would make 
sure he got the most 
delegates in the big
gest primary of the 
year.
I cant help it if all the church people in the 
South wanted to vote for somebody else. 
Maybe they saw something in Robertson 
that I didnt.
What could they have possibly seen in 
Robertson that You missed? I asked God.
There could have been a credibility prob
lem. The reverend predicted the world 
would be destroyed in 1982. When it didnt 
happen he said he had read the wrong signs. 
Then he said he would rock the Soviet 
empire back on its heels, because you cannot 
have any accommodation with it. And then 
he threw out a lot of right-wing trash that he 
didnt play in South Carolina. But I believe 
the things that really hurt him were Jimmy 
Swaggarts fall from grace and Robertsons 
decision to drop his libel suit against Pete 
McCloskey for claiming Robertson had his 
father save him from the Korean front lines 
when he was a Marine. I think the people 
wanted that one settled one way or the 
other.
Why did the Swaggart thing hurt 
Robertson?
Whether he admits it or not, Robertson is
a television minister, and there has just been 
too much sinning amongst the electronic 
preachers lately. Frankly, Im getting pretty 
sick of it.
Robertson forgave Swaggart.
Yes, but I didnt, and apparently many 
voters in the South 
havent either. 
Now that he is on 
the ropes, are You 
going to get in
volved in Robert
sons campaign?
I should hope 
not. Bush has it 
sewed up, and I 
don't want him to 
get mad at Me. 
Good point. How 
come the Reverend 
Jackson is doing so 
much better than the 
Reverend Robert
son? Have you been helping Jackson?
Of course not. Jackson is doing well be
cause hes acting presidential. He isnt 
frightening people half to death. All 
Robertson does is wear a big fat grin on his 
face and tell everyone theyre going to hell. 
That may be fine for a preacher, but it 
doesnt bring votes to the ballot box.
Im surprised that You have taken such 
an interest in an American election.
Ive had to because I must defend myself.
I like Pat very much, but I just dont trust 
him when hes running for office. For ex
ample, he says I said that salvation for the 
United States after an apocalyptic show
down will only happen if the conservative 
Christian forces win. A victory for the liber
als will produce nuclear war. Now thats too 
grungy for Me and it only frightens a lot of 
good people.
So Youre not too upset about the results 
of Super Tuesday?
Im neither for nor against anyone run
ning this time, and I hope they feel the same 
way about Me.
Art Buchwald is a syndicated columnist 
with the Los Angeles Times.
The Tartan
HKRBLOCKS CARTOON
"ANP BEST OF ALL, A PLASTIC ATTORNEY GENERAL 
can influence in South Africas economy that 
gives blacks economic powers that will under
mine the apartheid system. Its time the CMU 
students calling for divestment thought this 
over, and I for one urge Carnegie Mellon 
University to keep its holding in U.S. compa
nies doing business in South Africa.
Editor-in-Chief...............................Karl Barnhart
Managing Editor............................Erika Peterson
Business Manager.........................Russ Seligman
News Editor..............................Eric W. Leuliette
Assistant News Editor......................Chris Young
Features Editors.........................Judy Haraburda
Howdy Pierce
Sports Editor.........................................Josh Ruben
Assitant Sports Editor............Natalie Haw ryluk
Diversions Editor..............................Michael Rose
Photo Assignment Editor...............Andy Gillespie
Photo Darkroom Editoi ...............Albrecht Powell
Art Editor................................Grant Carmichael
Literary Editor..........................Michele Osherow
Production Manager................Dustin L. Frazier
Copy Editor...................................David N. Levy
Contributing Editors.................................................
Bruce Kasrel Neil Greenblum
Drue Miller Mark Benish
John Friedmann Stewart Levine
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University 
It is a weekly newspaper, published by students each Tuesday during 
the (all and spring semesters, at no cost to members of the university 
community It is printed by Typecraft Press. Inc Subscriptions are 
available for $15 per semester. $25 per year The Editorial appearing 
at the beginning of the opinion section is the official opinion of The 
Tartan editorial board Columns are the opinions of individual authors 
who are not necessarily on The Tartan editorial board or staff Letters 
to the Editor are opinions of individual authors who are usually 
members of the University community A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the wnter s address and phone number for 
verification Names will be withheld upon request The Tartan re
serves the right to condense or reject any letter or column Copyright 
 1988 by The Tartan The editorial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17 / Carnegie 
Mellon University / Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. All rights 
reserved. Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanMarch 22,1988
Letters. cont.
Police car nearly caused accident 
on buggy course, says witness
Academic Computing needs help } in revising cluster handouts
continued from page 8
stopping. At the time there was at least one 
buggy going up the hill. This did not seem to 
bother the officer as he went down hill 1 at a 
very fast speed with his lights still on. Had he 
slowed down for 10 seconds, I could have 
gotten the buggies immediately to the side of 
the road. Obviously, the medical emergency 
was so important that he didn't even have 10 
seconds to avoid risking the safety of others 
(me, the drivers, the pushers and other people 
on the hills).
As he proceeded down the hill, many people 
called out to him to slow down. Near the 
bottom of the hill, the chairman of the organi
zation, whose buggy was on the hill at the time, 
was upset that an accident could have oc
curred, and called the officer a dick. Despite 
the fact that he couldn't have waited a few sec
onds at the top, the officer decided that he had 
enough time to stop and confiscate his ID (so 
they could later give him a citation) before 
proceeding to the medical emergency.
The ignorance of the officer in this case 
upsets me. We check into the police office 
before going out, so they know we are out 
there. I also hope they know the potential 
danger of running into a buggy. The officer 
should have had his emergency lights on well 
in advance of the barricades and could have 
slowed down to give enough time to clear the 
hills. It was not as if I wouldnt have let him 
through, but he was careless and inconsider
ate. Yet it was the chairman, who was con
cerned about the safety of his driver, his 
pusher, and his buggy who got the state cita
tion. This is a serious injustice. I believe I 
speak for all organizations and everyone on 
the campus in asking that, in the future, the 
officers pay attention to the safety of others 
while en route to emergencies. It does no good 
if more accidents are caused because of care
less driving. I also think that the state citation 
should never have been given, as it was obvi
ously not the chairmans fault, except perhaps 
because of his concern for the safety of every
body on the hill.
Eric Morton 
Sophomore, ECE
Editor:
In response to C. Kenny Lins letter of March
8, 1988:
I agree that we have problems with the hand
outs in the clusters. This item has recently 
become (prior to Kennys letter) a high prior
ity on my list. I am in the process of hiring 
students to take inventory of the documents in 
the clusters and to comment on what is obso
lete, in need of revision, etc. I am also in the 
process of organizing online versions of all of 
the handouts so that I can control their revision 
and distribution.
I invite anyone who has problems with the 
handouts to come see me or send the handouts 
to me along with their comments (3015 Ham
burg Hall). I cannot guarantee a quick fix on all 
the handouts in every cluster, but I can guaran
tee earnest efforts to respond to student needs 
and slow-and-steady progress to insure that 
the handouts are updated and available in the 
appropriate clusters. Should anyone want to 
help with this project, please send mail to 
troll@andrew.
My goal as Document Coordinator is to see 
that users (students, faculty, staff) have appro
priate documentation for their needs. I cannot 
do this without user feedback, nor can I do it 
alone. Lask for your patience and help.
Denise A. Troll
Document Coordinator, Acad. Computing
Fear of AIDS isnt valid excuse for homophobia
continued from page 8
whatsoever from this with respect to mili
tary policy. It raises no issue whatsoever for 
women who are lesbian, since they have a 
very low likelihood of having the disease. 
And, contrary to Mr. Heims claims about 
the frequent inaccuracy of AIDS tests, 
according to recent reports in the media, 
widespread testing of military recruits and 
blood donors for AIDS has been extremely 
effective in detecting and reducing the inci
dence of AIDS among members of the 
military and within the blood supply. And 
even if, as Mr. Heim fears, there were still 
a serious risk of AIDS being transmitted by 
means of transfusions under combat situations, this could be handled in ways which 
dont involve excluding gay men from the 
military altogether; e.g. by not requiring that 
those at high risk for AIDS give blood or by 
preventing them from being in combat situ
ations ( as women currently are for quite dif
ferent reasons). But all of this is surely giving 
too much credence to the AIDS issue as a jus
tification for excluding homosexuals from the 
military. It is not (and could not be) the argu
ment that the military itself has offered for 
perennial discrimination against homosexu
als.
With respect to Mr. Heims closing appeal to 
the support for his views found in traditional 
religious beliefs and the wisdom of American
people, this is surely a questionable basis 
for endorsing any particular public policy. 
Traditional religious beliefs (of diverse 
faiths) and the wisdom of the American 
people (on repeated occasions) have sup
ported racist and sexist policies, genocide 
(e.g. in the case of Native Americans), un
just wars, and various dictatorships and 
corrupt governments, to note the forms of 
some more serious breaches of morality in 
our history. Perhaps similar lapses in moral 
judgement and human decency exist with 
regard to homosexuality?
Ernie Alieva
Assistant Professor of Philosophy
Distinguished Lecture Series
Peter J. Awn
Chairman of the Department of Religion, Columbia University 
will present a lecture on
Religious Revivalism and World Politics: 
From Khomeini to Pat Robertson
Wednesday, March 23, 1988 
3:30 p.m.
Wherrett Room, Skibo Hall Free and Open to the Public
O
j
)
j

---------------------------------------------------

Features
60 Seconds relates job search joysStudents win chance to program Cray
The Skibos 
of Carnegie
you believe. It is, instead, a prolonged psy
chological assault designed to reduce you 
from a principled and ethically sound human 
being to a quivering mass of corporate goo 
who would gladly work on a government 
project funded by money whose use you had 
previously opposed (Contra Aid, SDI spend
ing, pick your favorite controversial large 
budget).
I consider myself lucky to still be alive after 
seven months of this. I might even make it 
through the remaining month and a half.
On the other hand, remember the story of 
Oedipus Rex? Most people think that he 
stabbed his eyes out because he had slept 
with his mother. True, that troubled him for 
some time; but what really drove him to 
blind himself was the madness brought on by 
one Placement Interview too many. (This 
fact is usually edited out of most editions of 
Sophocles immortal play because it is con
sidered too unsettling for most readers.)
What hope is there for you, the poor slob 
who sooner or later will be going through the 
same Dante nightmare? Not much, I fear, 
except the benefit of my meager experience.
First you register yourself with the Career 
Services and Placement office by giving 
them twenty copies of your resum.
This is so all twenty people who work there
can have a copy, and at the end of the day they
get together and get hysterical over your
corny objective (I am seeking a full-time
position in Technical Writing that will be a
rewarding and challenging growing expericontinued on page 14
By TERENCE SPIES
Tartan Stqffwriter
Last Friday at the Mellon Institute, seven 
Carnegie Mellon students, including myself, 
and one Pitt student were given an hour of 
time on one of the worlds fastest computers. 
Each of the students submitted a proposal on 
a self-chosen project that would be impracti
cal to do on a normal computer or by hand.
The computer time was given away on the 
Pittsburgh Supercomputing Centers (PSC) 
Cray X-MP. The hour is to be used through
out the semester, and at the completion of the 
project, a report on each will be sent to the 
National Science Foundation.
The Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center is a 
joint project of the National Science Founda
tion, Carnegie Mellon and the University of 
Pittsburgh. It has two directors, Michael 
Levine and Ralph Roskes. The center re
ceived its Cray two years ago and has been 
in operation in Mellon Institute since then.
While an hour may seem to be a small 
amount of time to solve a large problem, the 
Cray does things very quickly. As a demon
stration, David Slowinski, researcher at the 
PSC and member of the Cray design team, 
wrote a short program that added the square 
roots of all the numbers up to one million. 
The program finished in one tenth of a sec
ond. The same program ran on an IBM per
sonal computer in around 9 hours, 324,000 
times as slow as the Cray. A good rule of 
thumb is that one second on a Cray is equiva
lent to a day on a personal computer. There
fore, all the projects have the equivalent of
ten years of time on a personal computer.
The Cray also has a tremendous amount of 
memory. It has 64 million bytes of memory 
(16 times that of an Andrew workstation) and 
20 billion bytes of disk storage (250 times that 
of an Andrew workstation.) Amazingly, this is 
a limited machine according to Levine.
Working with the Cray is much like using an 
Andrew workstation (in fact, the Cray can be 
used from an Andrew station) because it has an 
operating system much like Andrews UNIX. 
The only difference is that things happen much 
more quickly. Even mundane tasks like send
ing mail are done directly from the Cray 
(When it absolutely, positively needs to be 
there instantaneously).
Slowinski, the originator of the contest, is a 
student at GSIA. He worked on memory 
management and FORTRAN compiler soft
ware for the X-MP from 1980 until 1986. He 
is-also in the Guinness Book of World Records 
for discovering the world's largest prime 
number (it is 65,000 digits long, so it cant be 
printed here). Slowinskis motivation for the 
contest came from an incident where an An
drew consultant was unaware that Carnegie 
Mellon was part owner of a Cray. The contest 
also provides a test of the Crays UNIX oper
ating system.
The student projects span a range from in
vestment analysis to theoretical computer sci
ence. All projects were originated by the stu
dents and will be implemented independently.
Pamela Reinagel, a senior in biology at Car
negie Mellon, will be working on neural netcontinued on page 15
photo courtesy University Archives
Above left: The current Skibo, dedicated in 1960, is scheduled to 
be replaced by a new University Center.
Big Corporations That I Dont Respect But 
For Whom Ill Grudgingly Work. It is a hide
ous affair. Interviewing is a positively apoca
lyptic horror, a Stygian torture, a 
mind-rotting, soul-stripping, gut-wrenching, 
strength-sapping exercise in savagery to 
which vomiting, lunacy and catatonia are 
common responses. The main purpose of this 
^ barbarous hazing is not to find you a job, as 
Career Services and Placement would have
Above: In the early Fifties, Skibo, located in the current position 
of Hunt Library, was Carnegie Techs recreational center.
Look out juniors. Freshmen and sophomores 
also, though juniors are in the most imminent 
danger. Of course, it helps to be prepared as 
early as possible. No, Im not talking about 
spouse-seeking seniors. I am talking, of 
course, about the Senior Year Job Search 
^ Process, also known as Russian Roulette.
Since September I have involved myself in 
the time-honored ritual of Interviewing With
with Bob Glickstein
photo courtesy Angus McAm (E 58. IM 62)
Left: Skibo (pronounced Sky-bow) Castle in Scotland doesn't 
bear much resemblance to its CMU namesakes.

---------------------------------------------------

FINANCIAL
AID
APPLICATIONS
FOR 1988-1989
Are now available in the Financial Aid Office 
On the second floor of Warner Hall
We strongly advise that you pick up application
materials
luumel82m,I
>
FILING DEADLILNE: MAY 1, 1988
W\r\l\T\BIN
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING 
Sun.-Thrus. 7-10 pm
CALCULUS 
PHYSICS 
CHEMISTRY 
ECONOMICS 
ACADEMIC WRITING 
INTRO. TO COMPUTING
PH 107-A 
PH 107- B 
PH 126-A 
PH 126-B 
PH 126-C 
WeH 5409
Sponsored by the Counseling & Student Development Center and Student Affairs
1

---------------------------------------------------

March 22,1988The TartanPage 13
Specs offers tips to help beat those CMU blues
Dear Specs,
I get bored here at Carnegie Mellon 
all the time. There arent enough 
activities and events. I thought col
lege was supposed to be fun. Well, 
this one sucks. Theres no social life.
A Complaint
ear A. C.
I am appalled at your attitude. Do 
you think you are in nursery school? 
There is no Julie McCoy or Gopher 
organizing impromptu shuffleboard
games every Friday night. You must 
plan your own activities and enter
tain yourself when you are over 8 
years of age. There are millions of 
things you can do alone that are fun. 
^10 to the movies, write a poem, take 
up knitting. You might make some 
friends if you rid yourself of your 
ridiculous attitude. Here is a list to 
start you on the new adventure of 
Doing Things:
1. Start a business. Pgh. could use 
some more real estate developers or 
loan sharks. Even making book can 
^am you some extra money and 
brighten up rainy days at the track. If 
you dont have the leadership skills 
to run a business yourself take Deci
sion Processes with Marilyn Jacobs. 
Studying the Cuban Missile Crisis in
depth will sharpen your small busi
ness skills considerably, while 
Marilyns appearance will give you 
something to think about later.
2. Learn to juggle or play Dun
geons and Dragons. Stop by Skibo 
for information.
3. Volunteer. Theres a big de
mand for Good Deed Doers in 
todays society. You can start build
ing dog houses and leading boy 
scouts and eventually work up to 
Fawn Hall caliber. The confessional 
mode is very in this year. Look at 
Jessica Hahn. Without her, Jim 
Bakker would never have reached 
the nation. You could appear on The 
Tonight Show by the end of the term.
If you want the college fun feel
ing, try these Liberal Arts Activities.
1 The Bowdoin Bedoin  Drink 
and Doze
2. The Sarah Lawrence Shuffle 
Drink and Drop Out
3. The Boston College Top 20  
Drink and Dine
4. Smiths Over 140 Club  
Dress, Drink and Dine
5. The Alfred University Jubilee
 Drink and Drive Pledges into the 
Trunk
6. The Tulane Too Much  Drink 
and Drink
Specs
Dear Specs,
How do I say something to some
one that I want to say but cant?
Secretly in Love
Dear S.I.L.,
Use Western Union, Bell of Penn
sylvania, or the United States Postal 
Service. If you cant express your 
feelings verbally, Hallmark can. 
They have a wonderful line of cards 
with intimate messages youve 
probably never even thought of us
ing. Send one today.
Specs
Dear Specs,
Whats the best way to eat with a 
girl?
Help
Dear Help,
Dont eat with a girl; use a knife 
and fork. Ha Ha. Go to the English 
Dept, and get some help with prepo
sitional phrases and then ask her out 
to dinner. Otherwise she wont un
derstand a thing you say.
Specs
Dear Specs,
Why are the carrels on the third 
floor of the library so close together? 
Can this really be conducive to a 
quieter and more efficient study 
atmosphere?
Claustrophobic
Dear Cl.,
The new arrangement does not 
create greater efficiency in studying. 
It is designed to enable CM girls to 
find husbands more easily among 
the exhorbitant number of Pitt law 
students that have taken over the 
third floor. The MRS degree pro
gram that has been recently estab
lished hopes to have a reservation 
system soon. This will enable one to 
phone in and get a space to sit on the 
third floor several days in advance.
As it stands, one has to bag a desk 
months in advance to participate in 
the Prime Time Pitt Students Pick 
Up. The wait can be even more 
frustrating than deciding what to 
wear during Evenings at The Hunt.
Specs
Dear Specs,
Im taking a trip to Florida for 
Spring Break with a bunch of guys. 
I really dont want to ask my girl
friend to join us, but she seems upset 
when shes not included. .How 
should I tell her? What should I do?
Spring Break
Dear Spring,
You have several options. Since it 
is very close to vacation time, you 
could probably ignore the whole 
subject until we come back to 
school. If it comes up in conversa
tion, or if she asks you about Flor
ida quickly compliment her on her
hairstyle. Tell her how cozy her new 
sweater looks or how she appears 
thinner than usual. Then when Fri
day arrives just hightail it on out of 
Pittsburgh. S he probably won  t have 
much to say to you when you come 
back, but theres no need to worry 
about that now.
Another option is to tell her that 
you need your private time. Six male 
friends and beaches of bikinis is just 
scenery. You anticipate spending 
the week doing a great deal of intro
spection. Winston Churchill never 
got out of bed unless it was abso
lutely necessary. Just tell her that 
you have decided to become the next 
Churchill and need to spend some 
horizontal time withouther. Im sure 
shell understand that the idea of 
vacationing together simply does 
not appeal to you.
Specs
Enter The Tartans 
1988 Spring Break 
Photo competition!
$15 1st prize 
$10 2nd prize
send photos to: 
The Tartan 
c/o Skibo Info Desk 
by April 8,1988
Winners will appear in the April 11 issue.
Interested in [earning more about Industriai Management? 
Come to a meeting zvith the I9d staff andf acuity:
(Date: Wednesday, March 23,1988 
(Time: 5:00-6:00pm 
Piace: (Porter Jiaii 125c
Ait current IM freshmen and sophomores and 
any interested freshmen and sophomores are 
invited!
refreshments provided
English Majors:
wondering what youre going to do with your degree?
Come explore the possibilities at the Student Advisory Councils Career Seminar Saturday, April 9  Adamson Wing
f VO
Talk with CMU alumni from these fields: f yu\m 
Advertising / Media 10:00 11:00 ueo noA
Journalism 11:00  noon dSld
Technical Writing 12:30  1:30 f 3um)Aue pue 
Graduate Studies 1:30  2:30 J sjofeui aiqnop 
General Q&A 2:30  3:30 f zvIs\rI
f sdiqsujoiui
Refreshments provided sofpnis luapuaddpui
uininoyjno 
sasse/o
uo uojssnosfp ZrIsJpuuIJ ynext SAC meeting 
Thurs. 3/24 
5:30 BH235A
Come find out 
about tfu 
1988 senior 
banquet!
ejniinj y /0 
guiiuM eoiuLi 
BuUM ieu0!SS9j0J{ 
uuyM OAfi 
ui sjoruos }udjjn0 ifM
VASZH9 'aVVG&HO
 L y 9 l!Jdv 'sjnm * wou
jeujuias SufSjApv Jaodsjpuno josjApv ;u0pn;s agi le sai^inqissod agi ajoidxa aoioQ
JB9 pou a>iei oi sassep iei|M fuuapuoM
:sjofe|/\| qsiiBug

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanMarch 22,1988
March declared Red Cross month
PITTSBURGHPresident Reagan has de
clared March National Red Cross Month in 
recognizing its programs as a victory for 
humanity and for international cooperation. 
This year also marks the 125th anniversary of 
the International Red Cross.
In 1859, Swiss businessman Henry Dunant 
witnessed the aftermath of the Battle of Solferinowhere a French victory over Austria left 
40,000 dead or wounded. He was horrified at 
what he saw. As a result of his efforts, in 1863 
an international conference in Geneva met and
1,360 people through the Disaster Relief Pro
gram. It presented over 29,000 certificates in 
first aid, water safety, and home health aid in 
Pittsburgh and Allegheny County last year. 
Approximately 5,800 volunteers of all ages 
provided a variety of Red Cross programs and 
services.
This past Saturday, high school and college 
volunteers, including members of CMUs 
Kappa Chapter of A Phi O national service 
fraternity, participated in Red Cross Great 
Paint, painting the homes of ten Allegheny
+
 Red Cross 
Month
photos courtesy of the American Red Cross
Roger Durrett portrays Mark 
Twain in An Evening With 
Mark Twain aboard the Gate
way Clipper Fleets Majestic Sat
urday, March 26. Proceeds will 
benefit the American Red Cross.
adopted resolutions that became the corner
stone of the International Red Cross.
Last year the American National Red Cross 
clothed, fed, or sheltered 450,000 disaster 
victims and provided individuals with $122 
million in disaster relief in this country. The 
Red Cross aided members of the armed forces 
and their families 2.5 million times last year, 
averaging 4,000 messages daily of birth, 
death, and illness to military posts worldwide. 
Over seven million Americans successfully 
completed Red Cross courses last year.
Locally, the Pittsburgh-Allegheny Chapter, 
founded on February 23, 1917, aided over
County senior citizens.
On Saturday, March 26, the Pittsburgh-Allegheny County Chapter will present An 
Evening With Mark Twain aboard the Gate
way Clipper Fleets Majestic, with cast-off 
and dinner at 7:00 pm and Roger Durrett as 
Mark Twain performing at 8:00 pm. Durrett 
has portrayed the humorist and writer Mark 
Twain for twelve years across the country. In 
addition, Dixie Cups will provide music with _ 
a southern flavor. Tickets are $75 each (in
cluding dinner and the performance) with 
proceeds benefiting the American Red Cross. 
For tickets or info, call 263-3100 or 263-3124.
on the beach
FT. LAUDERDALE'S PREMIERE 
CONCERT AND DANCE CLUB
18 YEARS AND OLDER ADMITTED
----CELEBRATE-----
IMIN KRtAK *11
in Ft. Lauderdale 
10 A.M. - 6 P.M. - POOLSIDE PARTIES
Live D.J. Emceeing Poolside Contest  Woter Volleyball Tournament 
Free Deer Chug Relays  Free T-Shirt Relays  The Delly Flop Contest 
s1C arnVgi MUv Cgt ynMU c c c
The Wettest, Wet T-Shirt Contest featured in Playboy Magozine 
Cash Prizes  Free T-Shirts  and other giveawoys 
h9VVvFE AsVvE 81C TvM TgMvF 2E RnCvsE Ssy .1 hsrvPP 
7 P.M. - 0 P.M. - COU6E HAPPY HOUR
CARNEGIE MELLON U. PARTY * TUESDAY, MARCH 29th, 1988FREE SPRING BREAK. 86 T-SHIRT WITH PAID ADMISSION FOR ABOVE COLLEGE STUDENTS BETWEEN 7 O CLOCK AND 6 OCLOCK WITH PROPER COLLEGE I D 
ALL BAR DRINKS AND DRAFT DEER  S.75 
COMPETE IN CONTESTS FOR PRIZES!
EVENINGS
SUMMERS on the beoch presents FURY'
Ft. Lauderdale's finest Rock'n Roll bond nightly 
O,0h 6 Dors to Serve You
%RKN* MCAKftft
CARNEGIE MELLON U. PARTY * TUESDAY, MARCH 29thONE FREE BAA DRINK OR DRAFT OR SOFT DRINK - GOOD FROM 7 P.M. 6 P.M. NIGHTLY(UMff CM PER CUSTOMER.Summers on the Oeocb *219 S Alton 0v4 *Ft loodefdok* Flondo *005) 462 976 (Locoted /2 block non* of Los Ok OJvo on A1A)ADMISSION POLICY 16 Y*on Of OUto .... CLIP AND SAVE.................................................CLIP AND SAVE. . .
Job hunting: Get your foot in the door with a job interview
continued from page 11
enee).
Next you come by every few days to try to 
peer over some very tall persons shoulder 
at the New Posts. These are undecipherable 
lists of what companies will be on campus 
on what days and what majors they will 
interview for what positions. When you 
find one you like, you set up an interview by 
telling a Career Services and Placement 
official which company youd like to speak 
to. He will tell you that there are three inter
view slots available. Each will be during 
one of your classes. You must choose 
which one to miss. (In my experience it is 
best to skip the class whose professor has 
the worst command of English.)
Then comes the day of the interview. Eve
ryone knows its an interview day because 
you are not wearing jeans and a T-shirt. In 
fact, the clothes you are wearing would be 
suitable for a meeting with the Queen of 
England. All day long before your inter
view you stand up in classes rather than sit 
because you dont want to ruin the crease in 
your slacks, or the lay of your tails. All day 
long you maintain a distance of at least five 
feet from all other people because they 
might accidentally scuff your shoes.
When you show up for your interview in 
a dim subterranean cavern beneath Warner 
Hall (in the dark comers of which you think 
you can make out the shapes of human 
skeletons), you sit down in a waiting area 
where there are six or seven of your class
mates whom you do not recognize because 
of their severely formal clothes and their 
superfluous leather folders with fancy gold 
metal comers. (I dont have a leather folder 
with fancy gold metal comers and I cant 
figure out what I would need one for. I 
suspect that this is where candidates stick 
their chewing gum when the interviewer 
comes out to get them.)
Then a person who you look smarter than 
comes out from the Interviewing Cata
combs and extends his hand and mispro
nounces your name. This may or may not be 
an assertiveness test; I usually act like it is, 
and when the interviewer says Bob 
Glick-stine, I say Glick-steen and 
lock him in a half-nelson until he gets it 
right. This is whats known as getting a 
foot in the door.
You are led through the Catacombs to an 
Interviewing Cubicle where the first things 
you notice are a) your resum on the desk 
with notes scribbled in the margin, large 
sections of text crossed out and xs next to 
several of your Experience entries, and b) 
metal straps on the arms of your chair.
You and the interviewer go over the resum together for a little while and when 
you notice that as you speak, the inter
viewer is making mysterious marks on a 
piece of paper, your innate predisposition 
for bullshitting (one of the most fundamen
tal aspects of human nature) suddenly 
controls everything you say.
INTERVIEWER: I see you worked as a 
bouncer at a bar for five years.
YOU: Yes, but they were hiring only the 
top psychology majors for the job.
INTERVIEWER: [Stares]
YOU: We also had to have expertise in 
computer programming and materials sci
ence.
INTERVIEWER: How interesting. 
[Makes a mark.]
Then the interviewer asks you why your
Then the interviewer asks 
you why your grade point 
average is 1.4. You tell him... 
They got it backwards, its 
really 4.1. 
grade point average is 1.4. You tell him 
some kind of story like, They got it back
wards, its really 4.1, or We use a differ
ent system here and 1.5 is the highest, or I 
was preoccupied thinking about how terri
fic it would be to work at your wonderful 
company, or My dog ate it. All the 
while you wonder just what the hell you 
were thinking all those years while you 
were screwing around in classes. (Then you 
remember. You were thinking, This is 
much better than schoolwork.)
Just when you think the interview is over, 
the interviewer asks you one question that 
you simply cant answer, on the order of 
Can you tell me what color socks Im 
wearing without looking under the table? 
or Why are you dressed so goddamn for
mal? After youve made a fool of yourself 
trying to remember the color of his hosiery 
or explain the excess in your apparel, you 
are free to go. You write a follow-up letter. 
Dear Most Majestic Interviewer,
I wish our interview had never ended. It 
was the perfect interview and I praise your 
magnificence. May I be worthy to breathe 
air from the same atmosphere as your 
marvelous self.
Signed,
 The Humble Piece of Common Garbage 
Whom You Had the Goodness To Inter
view With Skill and Surpassing Wonder
fulness Yesterday.
Good luck.
16 INCH
PEPPERONI PIZZA $4.|ax
Saturday 11 am - 2 am
Sunday through Friday 3 pm - 2 am

---------------------------------------------------

March 22,1988The TartanPage 15
The sights, smells, 
and sounds of spring 
will come alive 
during The Magic of 
Spring through 
April 17 at Phipps 
Conservatory in 
Schenley Park.
$2.00. For more 
info, call 622-6958.
Joanne Staroschak will demonstrate and 
sell decorated Ukrainian Pysanka Easter 
eggs in the Upper Retail Level of Building 
Two of the PPG Place, March 14-April 2, 
from ll:00am-4:00pm.
Tuesday, March 22
Guenther Kaunzinger, a German organist, 
will play the Beckerath Organ in St. Pauls 
Cathedral at 8:30 pm as a part of the series 
marking the twenty-fifth anniversary of the 
dedication of the famous organ. Free. 
Wednesday, March 23 
Todays Contemporary Art Scene in the 
USSR, a lecture by Dr. Elena Kometchuk, 
will be held at noon in the Downtown 
YMCA at 305 Wood Street. Sponsored by 
Peace Links. Free.
The Food for Thought Theater Com
pany will perform in the PPG Wintergarden 
Downtown. Noon to 1:00 pm. For more 
information, call 434-4686.
Thursday, March 24 
The WHTX Professional Woman Fashion 
Show will be held from 5:30 to 7:30 pm at 
the Westin William Penn Hotel Down
town. The first 150 women will receive 
long-stem roses. For info, call 244-4547. 
Saturday, March 26 
8:30 am will mark the beginning of the 
Eighth Annual Pittsburgh Womens Career 
Network Day, to be held at Kaufmanns in
Downtown Pitts
burgh. Participants 
will have an oppor
tunity to network 
with female repre
sentatives of more 
than 20 professions. 
Reservations, in
cluding lunch, are 
$10. Call 232-2615. 
The Maple Festival will be held at the 
Frick Nature Center, from noon until 4:00 
pm. For more info, call 422-6538. 
Sunday, March 27
Soprano Lucy Shelton will sing in a Y 
Music Society Recital at 8:00 pm in the 
Morris Kaufmann Auditorium at 315 S. 
Bellefleld Avenue in Oakland. For tickets 
or more information, call the Jewish Com
munity Center at 521-8010.
Monday, March 28
A journey from Pieces to Shining is the 
title of Patricia Jamesons discussion about 
a womans devastation of losing a loved 
one or ending a relationship. $6. Noon on 
Kaufmanns 9th floor. Sponsored by Carlow College. For info, call 578-5094. 
Wednesday, March 30 
Teresa Wilson and Ann Harty, co-chairs 
of Linking Through the Arts, will speak at 
noon on From Ballet Benefit to Linking 
Through the Arts  The Evolution of a 
Cultural Exchange Project at the Down
town YWCA at 305 Wood Street. Spon
sored by Peace Links. Free.
Thursday, March 31 
The Urban Gardening Program will offer 
the first of three classes on insects at 7 pm 
at the Frick Nature Center. The next two 
sessions will be on April 7 and April 14. 
$8.00. For more info, call 422-6532.
CITY LIGHTS
Summer 
in the 
Gty with 
the World 
at Your 
Feet.
Please send my free copy of the 
Boston University Summer Term 
198S Bulletin today!
Name
Address
Daytime telephone CMU
Call 617/353-6000
Call, or mail this coupon today. 
Mail to Boston University Summer 
Term, 755 Commonwealth Avenue, 
Room 201, Boston, MA 02215
Boston 
University 
Summer 
Term
An equal opportunity, affirmatwe ait ion institution
FTX gives excitement, experience
If torture was a disease, 
we'd have a worldwide 
epidemic on our hands.
By ERIC WOOD
Special to The Tartan 
Theres the bridge. Were right on top of 
it. These were the words of Cadet Sid 
Ramchandran as he'and his squad located 
their objective. They had just moved care
fully for two hours in the dark, quiet forest.
This was the night patrol portion of 
CMUs Army ROTC spring Field Training 
Exercise (FTX), two days of training con
ducted on the 11 th and 12th of March in 
Blairsville, PA. Called the Scots Guard at 
CMU, Army ROTC conducts similar train
ing every spring. Cadets are taught small
unit tactics, along with the leadership skills
that every army officer must know. The 
exercise is also used to prepare the juniors 
for summer training. They were placed in 
photo by Eric Wood the squad leader positions. Seniors acted as 
Sophomore Douglas Oppedahl signals a graders under the supervision of army in
freeze to his squad during ROTCs recent structors.
Field Training exercise. First, the cadet squad leader was given his
night patrol mission by his senior grader. He then made his own plan, briefed his squad, and con
ducted the mission. Ramchandrans mission was to find and reconnoiter a bridge about two 
kilometers from his position in enemy territory. His movement was slow and careful over a route 
which aided in concealing his squad.
The day portion of the training allowed cadets to lead their squads through lanes of specific 
tactical situations such as a sniper, conducting an attack, setting up the defense, and an ambush 
to which the squad must react.
Students win computer time at PSC
trial Administration, will be doing work in incontinued from page 11
works, a technique of simulating brain activity 
through building software neurons that con
nect to each other and fire according to pre
programmed rules.
Carnegie Mellon sophomores Kevin Poecking and Philip Dye will be working on the 
Travelling Salesman problem, a problem dis
tinguished by its membership in a class of 
problems known as NP-complete. NPcomplete problems cannot be solved in a 
simple polynomial amount of time and are the 
subject of an entire division of computer sci
ence known as computability.
Steven Heston, a graduate student in Indusvestment analysis on the Cray, focusing on 
mortgage evaluation.
Stefen Savage, Peter Skelly, and myself, all 
freshmen, will be doing cryptoanalysis of the 
Data Encryption Standard using neural net
works and logic analysis.
Steven Sabram, a student in Electrical Engi
neering at the University of Pittsburgh, will do 
a complete analysis of an integrated circuit he 
is designing. According to Sabram, conven
tional computers can only do one or two ef
fects of the chip at once. He wants the Cray to 
analyze all the effects on all 5000 transistors in 
the chip at once.
You can help stop torture. By writing a letter today. It's an 
amazingly simple, yet powerful act that can help someone win their 
freedom from a very unnatural disease.
Amnesty International has been helping thousands of innocent 
people win their freedom since 1961. By writing letters and pointing 
the spotlight of world opinion on those who practice torture. It's a 
spotlight you can help direct.
Today people are still being tortured in more than one third of 
all countries around the world. Torture is an evil you can help stop. 
Write today. It may be the most satisfying letter you've ever written.
Write a letter, save a life.
Amnesty International

---------------------------------------------------

1988 Summer Sessions
Undergraduate & Graduate Courses for Summer Sessions:
(1) Offered Summer Session One May 16-July 1, 1988
(1&2) Offered Summer Session All May 16-August 19, 1988
(2) Offered Summer Session Two July 5-August 19, 1988
?GraduateCourse Number
Chemistry09-105Modem Chemistry I10 units(l)
09-117Organic Chemistry I9 units(l)
09-218Organic Chemistry II9 units(2)
Computer
Science
15-111Introduction to Computing 
for Engineering and Science
10 units(l&2)
15-116Introduction to Computing 
for Fine Arts
10 units(l&2)
15-117Introduction to Computing in Scheme10 units(l)
15-118Introduction to Computing for 
Humanities and Social Sciences
10 units(l&2)
Mathematics21-105Precalculus (H&SS)9 units(2)
21-111Calculus I (H&SS)10 units(l)
21-112Calculus II (H&SS)10 units(l)(2)
21-121Calculus I10 units(l)(2)
21-122Calculus and Linear Algebra10 units(l)(2)
21-127Introduction to Modern Mathematics9 units(l)(2)
21-259Calculus in Three Dimensions9 units(l)(2)
21-260Differential Equations9 units(l)(2)
21-292Operations Research9 units(2)
Mechanical24-112Fluid Mechanics I10 units(l)
Engineering24-121Thermodynamics I9 units(l)
Metallurgical27-322Process Metallurgy12units(l&2)
Engineering27-332Physical Metallurgy II9 units(l&2)
and27-350Industrial Projects Seminar9 units(l&2)
Materials Science 18-236Introduction to Solid State Electronics9 units(l&2)
Physics33-121Physics I: Mechanics10 units(l)(2)
33-122Physics II: Heat Waves and Optics10 units(l)(2)
33-123Physics III: Electricity & Magnetism10 units(l)(2)
Statistics36-101Statistical Concepts 
with Computer Applications
9 units(l)(2)
36-209Probability and Applied Statistics 
for Management/Social Science I
9 units(l)(2)
36-210Probability and Applied Statistics 
for Management/Social Science II
9 units(l)(2)
36-211Probability and Applied Statistics 
for Physical Sciences/Engineering I
9 units(l)(2)
36-212Probability and Applied Statistics 
for Physical Sciences/Engineering II
9 units(l)(2)
36-217Probability Theory 
and Random Process
9 units(l)(2)
36-219Statistical Methods for Data Analysis9 units(l)(2)
36-225Intro, to Probability & Statistics I9 units(l)(2)
36-226Intro, to Probability & Statistics II9 units(l)(2)
36-309Expererimental Design for 
Behavioral and Social Sciences
9 units(l)(2)
36-325Probability & Mathematical Stats. I9 units(l)(2)
36-326Probability & Mathematical Statts. II9 units(l)(2)
Biomedical42-500Physiology9 units(l)
Engineering42-560Biomedical Eng. Undergrad. ProjectsTBA(2)
*42-735Physiology9 units(l)
Architecture48-301Architectural Design: Level III15 units(l&2)
Design51-103Introduction to Design18 units(2)
51-200Design18 units (2)
51-210Introduction to Photography9 units(l)(2)
Art60-117Drawing9 units(2)
60-224Art and the Computer9 units(2)
60-226Individual Problems: Intermedia9 units(2)
60-228Painting9 units(2)
60-317Drawing9 units(2)
60-328Painting9 units(2)
60-374Individual Problems9 units(2)
60-380Contemporary Art. 9 units(2)
60-381Independent Study:
Contemporary Issues in Art History
9 units(l&2)
60-390Internship: Gallery Experience9 units(l&2)
*60-717Drawing9 units(2)
*60-724Art and the Computer9 units(2)
*60-726Individual Problems: Intermedia9 units(2)
*60-728Painting9 units(2)
*60-774Individual Problems9 units(2)
*60-780Contemporary Art9 units(2)
teAwtrial70-101Elements of Industrial Administration9 units(l)
Management70-121Financial Accounting9 units(lX2)
70-332Government and Business9 units(2)
70-361Foundations of Law9 units(2)
Industrial70-371Production I9 units(l)(2)
Management70-381Marketing I9 units(l)
(continued)70-391Finance I9 units(l)(2)
Economics73-100Principles of Economics9 units(l)(2)
73-250Intermediate Microeconomics9 units(l)(2)
73-300Intermediate Macroeconomics9 units(l)(2)
73-360Econometrics9 units(l)
English76-100Strategies for Writing9 units(l)(2)
76-101Reading Texts
(1&2) 
9 units(l)(2)
76-103Writing Strategies for Foreign Students
(1&2) 
9 units(l)
76-245Shakespeare
(1&2) 
9 units(l)(2)
76-251Studies in American Literature:9 units(l)
76-260
Contemporary American Literature 
Survey of Forms: Fiction9 units(l)
76-270Writing for the Professions9 units(l)(2)
76-301Internship0-18 units(l)(2)
76-371Rhetoric in Social Interaction9 units(l)
76-392Introduction to Discourse Analysis9 units(l)
76-471Internship in Technical' 9 units(l)(2)
*76-771
Writing & Editing 
Rhetoric in Social Interaction12 units(l)
*76-792Introduction to Discourse Analysis9 units(l)
*76-901Internship3 units(2)
History79-103American Civilization9 units(l)
79-120Development of American Society9 units(2)
79-220Contemporary America in Film9 units(l)(2)
79-221History of American Urban Life9 units(2)
79-222Topics in Business History:9 units(2)
79-347
American Advertising
Arms Sales and Global Politics9 units(2)
79-350History of American Sports9 units(2)
79-360Witchcraft and Dissent in Europe9 units(l)
Philosophy80-100Philosophic Methods9 units(l)
80-231Topics in Moral Philosophy9 units(l)
80-595
Women and Moral Problems 
Supervised Research in PhilosophyTBA(l)
Psychology85-101General Psychology (self-paced)9 units(l)
85-110Introduction to Symbolic9 units(l)(2)
85-480
Programming (self-paced) 
Internship in Clinical Psychology18 units(l)
School of Urban*90-754Computer Applications12 units(l&2)
and
Public Affairs*90-760
for Public Managers 
Strategic Marketing I12 units(l&2)
*90-761Organizational Management II12 units(l&2)
*90-762Strategic Planning12 units(l&2)
*90-763Data Analysis for Managers12 units(l&2)
*90-764Economic Principles of12 units(l&2)
*90-778
Policy Analysis 
Personnel Administration12 units(l&2)
*90-789Financial Analysis for Managers12 units(l&2)
*90-795Policy in Health Systems6 units(l)
*90-798Legal Issues in Health6 units(2)
EuropeanParis
Systems Management
June 3 - July 26 Contact the Modem
StudiesGermanyJune 6 - July 29 LanguagesDepartment
MadridMay 31 - June 23 for more information.
The course schedules for the above listed courses are contained in 
the 1988 Summer University Course Catalog.
The dates of the Summer Sessions are listed above. Undergraduate 
tuition is $ 100/unit (3 units = 1 credit).
The Catalog also contains registration materials and further informa
tion.
The Catalog may be picked up at one of several locations on campus: 
outside of Warner Hall 111, the Registrar' Office (WH 201), the Sum
mer Studies Office (WH 108), or call x6620.
All candidates must register for summer coursework using the 1988 
Registration Form for Summer Coursework. NOTE: Registration
materials for courses taking place during Summer Sessions One and 
All are due in the Summer Studies Office May 6, 1988.
The offering of summer coursework is dependent upon sufficient 
course enrollments. Only those Registration Forms received by the 
registration deadline(s)will be counted.

---------------------------------------------------

March 22,1988The TartanPage 17
World
BIG EAST BLOWN OUT
After being the most well-represented 
conference in the NCAA tournament, 
the Big East now only has one member 
out of its original six still on the road to 
the Final Four.
Villanova is still in the thick of the 
competition after Seton Hall, Geor
getown, and the University of Pitts
burgh lost on Sunday. They join Big 
East allies, Syracuse and St. Johns who 
were tossed out of the 64-team field in 
the first round.
Villanova won a tough game against 
Illinois at the Southeast Regional in 
Cincinnati on Sunday, 66-63. Mark 
Plansky hit two crucial free-throws 
with 14 seconds left, to help the Wild
cats ice the game after they had rallied 
back from a 14-point deficit. They now 
go on to face Kentucky.
MORE PLAYOFFS CLINCHED
Larry Bird scored 33 points while the 
Boston defence incredibly held Chi
cago star Michael Air Jordan to a 
mere 26 as the Celtics rolled over the 
Chicago Bulls, 137-107.
Denvers 108-95 victory over Seattle 
will take them to the playoffs along 
with the Celtics, following their win. 
Both teams join the L.A. Lakers, Dallas 
Mavericks, and Portland Trailblazers, 
who have also clinched the playoffs.
HEXTALL HURT AGAINST PENS
Philadelphia goalie Ron Hextall will 
miss seven to ten days of action due to 
a separated shoulder.
Hextall received the injury in 
Saturdays loss to the Penguins in Pitts
burgh. Sunday, the Pens turned around 
and went to Philadelphia and lost to the 
Flyers 4-2.
EARNHARDT WINS ATLANTA
Dale Earnhardt took the checkered 
flag in the Atlanta 500 for his first 
victory of the year. Earnhardt domi
nated for most of the race holding the 
lead for 269 of the 328 laps.
Rusty Wallace finished second in the 
500 mile race, just 1.05 seconds behind 
Eamhadt who averaged 137.588 miles 
per hour.
The Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co. 
had a special interest in this race due to 
a rival tire company being used by 
many racers.
Penguins make room on the rosterMeloche moves off the ice
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Contributing Editor 
Gilles Meloche shouldnt be going out this 
way.
The goalie whose saves were made famous in 
Pittsburgh by broadcaster Mike Langes call of 
Meloche says no! is within weeks of retire
ment. It is a quiet farewell. No good-bye tours 
around the league. No elaborate tributes. Not 
even a Gilles Meloche Day.
At 38, the oldest player in the NHL, Meloche 
has outlasted most of his contemporaries. He 
has even outlasted two of the NHL franchises 
he played for, Cleveland and the California 
Seals. He broke into the league in 1970 with the 
Chicago Blackhawks, and was traded to Cali
fornia the following year. Cleveland ice was 
home for Meloche in 1976, and when the fran
chise went under two years later, the vet wound 
up with the Minnesota North Stars. In the 
seasons from 1978 to 1985, he enjoyed some of 
his best years, helping the team to the playoffs 
five consecutive years, and all the way to the 
Stanley Cup finals in 1981.
Meloches route from the North Stars to the 
Penguins was via Edmonton. Traded to the 
Oilers on May 31,1985, Meloche joined a team 
that had just won the Stanley Cup. The goalie 
never got a chance to play a game with Edmon
ton because of a September 12, 1985 deal that 
brought him to Pittsburgh in exchange for 
Marty McSorley and Tim Hrynewich.
He has proven to be a stabilizing influence on 
the Pens, and has been the constant in a rapidly 
changing goaltending situation. Meloche has 
pulled his own weight this season. In a two 
week stretch from December 5th to the 19th, 
Meloche played in seven straight games, and
Two Tartans keep 
the school proud
By JOSH RUBEN
Tartan Sports Editor 
Junior Greg Schooley was named an AllAmerican after a fine showing in the NCAA 
Division III Swimming and Diving Champion
ship at Emory University in Atlanta. Schooley 
finished 15th in the 200 yd. butterfly. He was 
the only Carnegie Mellon representative to go 
to the NCAA championship event.
In addition, Tartan Soccer captain, Kevin 
Jung, is a possible candidate for an invitation to 
the Budweiser Indoor Soccer All-Star compe
tition. Such an event is a likely first-step to the 
professional soccer leagues.
Scouts from the Major Indoor Soccer League 
take great interest in such contests and if Jung 
performs as well in the Budweiser All-Star 
game as he has at Carnegie Mellon University, 
he may be playing pro-soccer in the near future.
f I PAYLESS 521-5700/ J CAR RENTALm ALSO DBA HOLIDAY* PAYLESS* RENT-A-CAR
Our Name Says It All!
5600 Wilkins Ave. 
Pgh. Pa. 15217 
(Squirrel Hill)
 Low Daily - Weekly Rates . Weekend Specials
 Must be 21 or over
 Most Major Credit Cards Accepted 
(Students' and Parents' cards accepted.)
15 and 7 Passenger Vans available also
 1/2 mile from Campus 
Worldwide Tbl free Reservations 
1-800-237-2804 or Cal Your fravel Agent
photo from the Pittsburgh Penguins
won five. This helped to keep the team in the 
playoff hunt during a time when fellow goalie 
Pat Riggin seemingly couldnt stop a basket
ball, much less a puck.
Ironically, it was the poor play of Riggin that 
led to Meloches quiet retirement. General 
Manager Eddie Johnson got rid of Riggin, and 
gave the job of tending the net to young goalies 
Frank Pieterangelo and Steve Guenette. Since 
February 7, Meloche has seen not a minute of 
ice time
Meloche isnt bitter. On the contrary, he has 
adapted well to his new role of advisor and 
teacher. As it stands now, he will just be advis
ing and teaching, probably never playing in 
another game. But for a man who was the 
bulwark of the Pens goaltending corps for two 
years, it doesnt seem to be the right way to go.
Baseball begins
continued from page 20
County, Butler, Grove City, and St. Vin
cents. The general outlook for the spring 
season is good; players feel that the 
clubs overall attitude has improved, 
and spring recruitment was excellent, 
according to Pierce and Nibbelink.
A lot more people came out for base
ball this spring; a few of the football 
players joined who couldnt play in the 
fall because of football, and there seems 
to be a lot of people with great athletic 
ability, Pierce noted. Membership is 
up around 30, with about 15 new re
cruits.
One of the clubs biggest problems has 
been a lack of equipment. This season, 
the club has acquired a new pitching ma
chine and an indoor batting cage.
The pitching machine will be a big 
help to the pitchers, Pierce said. It will 
help save a lot of arms because the pitch
ers wont have to pitch batting practices 
all the time.
Besides bad weather, which has forced 
the team to work out in the gym, course 
work loads are another problem.
People come when they can, said 
Pierce. But at a school like this, aca
demics come first. On top of that, though 
we try to practice as much as we can, we 
just cant practice every day. And we 
cant get outdoors yet because the 
weather is still wet. So its difficult to 
predict how well do this season. 
Pierce concluded, The overall atti
tude of the players has improved over 
last year and that should be a big plus for 
us this season.
The Best Place In Town For A Wing Out!
Mike Kalina-Pgh. Press
Over a Dozen Sauces From Mild-Mild to Death Sauce!!
Open 3:30 p.m. T-H till 10 
F S till 11 
Open Sundays  till 8
CALL:421-WING
Our Ribs?
((Best in the City
Marianis Coast to-Coast Dining Guida
RIB HOUSE (SQ. HILL) \;A 'WRibs  Chicken  Barbecue Specialties
2125MURRAYAVENUE

---------------------------------------------------

Get ready ... Get Set... GOOUR BIGGEST
BARGAINSAIE!
Mar. 18 thru Apr. 2
DOWNTOWN STORE ONLY!
355-0444
HAVE RESERVATIONS?
Stay at Howard Johnson 
for a change!
HOWARDJOHNSO^__________
University Center Hotel
3401 Blvd. of the Allies 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Toll Free Direct to Lodge # 
In PA 800-441-3979 
Out of PA 800-245-4444 
Local (412) 683-6100
Page 18The TartanMarch 22,1988
819 Penn Avenue, Downtown, Pgh.
most
savings
CASH & CARRY (No company charges) VISA, Master Card, American Express 
& Discover Cards are accepted.
NO RETURNS or EXCHANGES
Pads
Brushes
Pens
Markers
Frames
Boards Inks 
Lettering 
Tapes 
Posters 
& Others
Top NotchART MATERIALS INC.
Rowers ready to hit the water...almost
URC receives funding
By KARYN SILVA
Tartan Staffwriter
The dream is now a reality. The University 
Rowing Club, which only recently attained 
official club status, literally has both oars in 
the water. But, theyre still a few strokes away 
from being totally operational.
It was unlikely the club would ever hit the 
Allegheny this spring. On March 2, the Carne
gie Mellon administration granted money to 
the URC to purchase equipment and cover 
expenses not funded by Student Senate. De
lays in receiving funding for boats (combined 
with the time to hand-make each craft), made 
any hopes of rowing before August very slim. 
Even if the URC had received the proper 
funding, it could take as long as three months 
the boats to arrive. Luck has been behind the 
URC in this endeavor, and everything has 
come through. The manufacturer agreed to 
have its crew work overtime, and, sometime in 
mid-April, the first boat is scheduled to arrive. 
There will be two Schoenbrad carbon-fiber 
boats and eight Driesigacker oars.
Harry Printz, President of the University 
Rowing Club, feels that a big step was taken
How to stand out
in a crowd.
on the part of the administration to fund an 
activity beyond the ordinary Student Activi
ties Fee.
Printz also said that the administration has 
shown a very high level of confidence for the 
club and the sport of rowing.
The real test of the URC will be on April 23, 
when it competes in its first regatta. There is 
another scheduled for April 9; however, it is 
unlikely that the club will be ready in time to 
compete. Due to the late arrival of the boats 
and the delay in starting training, sights are set 
on the 23rd.
In May, the URC is also hoping to gain 
admission to the Dad Vail Regatta in Philadel
phia, a major event in small school regattas.
Carnegie Mellon rowers will be competing 
against schools such as Duquesne and Pitt. 
Duquesne has an established rowing program, 
while Pitt is also just getting off the ground.
There are 92 dues-paying members of the 
URC. For training, they are divided into three 
groups: Advanced, Intermediate, and Begin
ner. These groups meet at the gym three times 
a week to train, with a minimum of 25-30 
people attending per session.
photo courtesy of the Mercy Hospital Foundation
With President Cyerts funding of the University Rowing Club, Carnegie Mellon 
crews will be able to compete with schools like Boston University, pictured here.
The American Express Card gets an outstanding welcome 
virtually anywhere you shop, whether it's for a leather jacket 
or a leather-bound classic. Whether youre bound for 
a bookstore or a beach in Bermuda. So during college 
and after, it's the perfect way to pay for just about 
everything you'll want.
How to get the Card now.
College is the first sign of success. And because we 
believe in your potential, we've made it easier 
to get the American Express Card right now.
Whether you're a freshman, senior or 
grad student, look into our new automatic 
approval offers. For details, pick up an 
application on campus. 
Or call l -800-THF.-CARI) and ask for 
a student application. 
The American Express Card. 
Don't l^eave School Without ItT*

---------------------------------------------------

Scoreboard
IM News
The next IM. Board Meeting will be held 
Thursday, April 7th, at noon in the Gym 
Conference Room.
c
SPORTS IN SEASON
Floor Hockey
Majors - Eric Bittner x8650 
Intermediate - Jeff Cohen x4134 
Playoff schedule will be posted on the IM 
bulletin board. Championship games will be 
played after Spring Break.
y
Pinochle
Commissioner Pete Gaertner x5516 
Schedules are out and can be picked up in the 
IM office. Please play all matches as sched
uled, and call all results into Peter.
Water Basketball
Commissioner Carl Bell x5509 
y The water basketball lifeguard will be John 
Bender, x4552. The final call for Water Bas
ketball is this week. Get your team rosters in.
Table Tennis
Commissioner Stu Fox x4226 
Revised schedules are out and should be 
picked up in the IM office as soon as possible. 
Please report all results to Stu or the IM office 
at x2214.
1st floor Schlag 
takes the gold
By NATALIE HAWRYLUK
Assistant Sports Editor 
The Awards and Closing Ceremonies 
of the Schlag Olympics were held Fri
day night at 7 pm in the Hamerschlag 
Lounge. The overall winner was the 1st 
floor, with a total of 52 points. Second 
and third places went to floors 2A (48 
points) and 3B (44 points). T-shirts 
were donated by the Housing Office and 
given out.
Bowling
Commissioner Randy Brown x5501 
Randy - Please pay Strand Lanes.
Darts
Commissioner Bob Moses 683-8409 
Finals will be played this week.
SPORTS COMING UP
Fencing
Commissioner Cyle Sprick x4668 
Entries are due March 30th. Matches will be 
held Monday, April 11th and Tuesday, April 
12th at 5 pm in Thistle Hall.
Triathalon
Commissioner Mrs. Morosky x2075 
Entries are due on April 20th at 4:30 pm. The 
meet will be held on April 30th, and will 
consist of a 400 yard swim, a 10 mile bike leg, 
and a 3.1 mile run. Entry fee is $15.00 per
photo by Pomona Valero
Competition was fierce in the second annual 3-on-3 basketball tournament held 
in Skibo Gym last week. The event was sponsored by the Air Force ROTC.
IM Standings
FLOOR HOCKEY STANDINGS
Team Call Pool and Individual Call Pool
Commissioner Andy Segal x4436 
Please play all matches as scheduled and 
report all results to Commissioner Segal.
Indoor Soccer
Commissioner A1 Margarella x5516 
Schedules are out and can be picked up in the 
IM office. Standings are posted on the IM 
Bulletin Board.
Swimming
Commissioner Hal Levine x5981 
Meet was yesterday. Complete results will 
be printed in the next issue.
. Weight Lifting
Commissioner Keith Gorse x2222 
This is the last call for Weight Lifting, so get 
your entry in. Lifting will start this week.
Handball
Commissioner E.J. Birdy x2214 
Final call for Handball. Sign your team up 
now at the IM office.
Softball
Majors - Pat Jefferies x4299 
Intermediate - Stu Fox x4226 
Minors and Women - Stephanie Janczak 
x4229
Play will begin April 4th in elimination tour
nament format. Rules clinic will be held on 
Thursday, March 24th at 4:30 pm in the 
Womens Gym for all teams involved. Games 
will begin Monday April 4th at 4:30 pm.
team. Get your team lined up now.
QMAJORSW LTWL
IM Track MeetPOND SCUM6 00PILAM B31
Commissioner Mike Grzy winskiTHE BOYS OF BOLOGNA6 00EN31
The date for the 1988 IM Track Meet is set forPHI KAP2 40SAE22
April 21 st. Individual as well as team compeMEXICAN EARTHQUAKES4 20IMMEDIATE DUCK13
tition will take place. Those interested shouldDYNAMO2 40DANGLING POINTERS13
report to the track by 4:00 pm on April 21.PIKA0 60
Meet starts at 4:30 pm.SAE2 40INDOOR SOCCER
DU2 40
FrisbeeMAJORS
Commissioner Paul Drake 681-8703MINORSDIVISION AWL
Entries are due Thursday, April 7th at 4:30NORTHW LTKSA01
pm. Get your Frisbee team together now.SUDSCUCKERS2 20DU10
PIONEERS3 10GSIA10
THE IM TICKER....ZOO
THE BEAT
4 0 
0 4
0
0
GARGOYLES01
On Thursday, March 17th, the Main GymESCAPE FROM NOISE1 30DIVISION B
was the site of the Co-Rec and Team BadminDISBAND01
ton Tournament. Dan Zaidopiner took theSOUTHW LTTHE NULLES10
individual title, and the male doubles title withPI LAM4 00REAL MELLON10
teammate Gen Shong Lo. Gen Shong Lo andSLOPE OF VENUS3 10PIONEERS01
Yi Fang Tsay were the Co-Rec winners.THETA XI1 30
The 1988 Basketball Foul Shooting teamAEPI2 20INTERMEDIATES
champions are the Snarfers, who hit 355 of 500BOSS HOGS0 40DIVISION CwL
foul shots. Individual honors in the male diviKICKERS01
sion go to Graham McFee (90/100), and in theEASTW LTDOHERTY DYNASTY01
female division, to Leslie Williams (43/100).DTD3 20ZOO11
Intramural 3 on 3 Basketball ended this weekCIA2 30TEAM X10
with the following teams coming out on top:TRANSFORMERS4 01ME-GRADS10
Majors - Showboats; Intermediates - Spirit C;MOOSE JAW WARRIORS31
Minors - Mofo Knows.SDC0 40DIVISION D
The organizational meeting for IM SoftballHAMMER SLAMMERS1 40BEN WA BALLS01
0will be held on Thursday, March 24th at 4:30CIV ES1
in the Womens Gym. All teams must have aWESTW LTPILAM01
representative at this meeting. Schedules andSIGTAU3 01PIKA10
tournament formats will be distributed at thisOUTLAWS2 20
meeting. Anyone interested in joining theAFROTC3 01DIVISION E
01Officials Club for IM Softball should alsoKDR0 40DRAMS
attend this meeting. Umpires will be paid theLEES ARMY1 30JAHANNAMI10
University rate. Games will be played in theDTD10
late afternoon on the IM fields, and will not beDARTS STANDINGSSAE01
rescheduled except for the weather.PWL
Those teams that have won an intramuralPILAM A31DIVISION F
championship for the 1987-88 school year areX31PHI KAP20
reminded to stop by the IM office to pick upWHARF RATS22SHIP OF FOOLS01
their trophies, if they have not done so yet.HOOTWOO22SDC1I
PILAMETTES04BOOTS TO THE HEAD01
IM Basketball All-StarsDIVISION G
SRUBS01
MinorsBILLY BOBS BOYS10
MVP  Bill Snyder Scobell MilkmenJoey FiedlerUnderdogCRNIVROUS HERBIVORES 01
Mike GrecoSold ShortJohn SimonKappa Sig APSYCLONES10
Mike SmithPika PowerDoug MeadeMathletes
Tim SnodgrassBushmenMajorsDIVISION H
Pete NeergaardUCCMVP  Jay GlaspyThe SquadDU01
Mike HessionATO-SFPJay StrasniderDRAMSDRAMS01
IntermediateRob BowieSpirit BKAPPA SIGMAJ0
MVP  Pat McCrosky SudsuckersBill JonesFixers
Gerry GlatzPioneersBarry FranklinThe SquadDIVISION I
Ted TsorasATO WolverinesGary BreauningerATO WolfpackEMILE S TEAM
Scott PhelanCiv-EsRick CiaccioThe MonksWAWAWSo
Mike LaPoreBen Wa BallsJeff Kochanowski1085 LionsBIO-HAZARDSo1

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan
PORT
IM  CLUBS  VARSITY  PROFESSIONAL
Mens tennis expects 
successful season
By NEAL A. LEVENE
Tartan Staffwriter
The Tartan mens tennis team finished unde
feated in regular in-conference season play 
last year, only to be disappointed with a third 
place finish in the Presidents Athletic Confer
ence [PAC] Championships. The worst prob
lem, for now, is the typically unpleasant Pitts
burgh weather which has gready limited the 
teams attempts to practice.
Weve had so little chance to practice out
doors. Its very difficult, without outdoor 
practice, to get the kind of practice we need to 
get ready for the season, described Rich 
Scheines, the new coach of the mens team. 
This season will be Scheiness first year as a 
head coach of a college varsity tennis team. 
Scheines graduated from Hobarth College, 
where he played four years of varsity tennis. 
He works at Carnegie Mellon as a research sci
entist in Philosophy and at the Center of De
sign of Academic Computing. He has taught at 
a tennis camp in Massachusetts, and was a 
head pro at a country club in Albany, New 
York for three years. Scheines has also played 
locally in several USTA tournaments, being 
ranked in the top twelve in Western Pennsyl
vania.
Scheines appeared highly confident about 
the teams chances for success this season. I 
cant imagine, he stated, many teams around 
this region that have the kind of depth that we 
do. The difference between our top guy and 
our sixth or seventh guy is pretty small. There 
is no drop-off.
The team is substantially intact, losing no 
one to graduation. With challenge matches
beginning this week, the current roster is Keith 
Grumet at #1 singles, Graham McAfee at #2, 
Darin Kaplan at #3, Rob Schlackman at #4, 
Cory Dworken at #5, Dave Dillon at #6, and 
Jay Stevens at #7. The doubles pairings will be 
Grumet & McAfee at # 1 doubles and the teams 
of Schlackman & Stevens and Dillon & Kap
lan fighting for the #2 and #3 positions.
Senior Captain Schlackman shares his 
coachs enthusiasm for the upcoming season. 
We are practicing the fundamentals more this 
year. Practice is very organized. Weve had 
more drills than match play. This is the first 
time in two years that we have had the doubles 
teams set before we go into the season.
The big question is who will play at #1 this 
year? There is a possibility that Grumet will 
not be able to play for the team this year due to 
his academic commitments to the drama de
partment. If so, there is little question that 
McAfee will move into the #1 position.
Scheines emphasised that he wants to work 
on each players individual weaknesses. It 
takes a long time to push someone up a notch 
in tennis, he commented. Darin Kaplan for 
example has been working on a top spin back 
hand. Scheines explained that this technique 
has been working for Kaplan in practice, but 
has not been very effective in competition.
Graham is a much stronger player this 
year, explained Schlackman. Graham 
picked up his game and became a serve and 
volleyer. He could probably play #1 and not 
have any problems with it.
On the other hand Schlackman asserted that 
Grumet, is more of a finesse player than any
one else on the team. The problem with
The Pittsburgh sports scene:
Basketball: Vanderbilt 80 Pitt 74 (OT) 
Pitt 108 E. Michigan 90 
Hockey: Philadelphia 4 Penguins 2 
Spring Baseball: Bucs 1 White Sox 0
Tartan file photo
Junior Keith Grumet is currently the #1 player for the mens tennis team but may not 
be able to play this season due to class obligations to the drama department.
finesse is, however, that without practice 
finesse is the first thing to go.
Grumet was also the #1 player last season 
even though he practiced relatively little. 
Coach Scheines emphasised that Grumet pos
sesses great natural talent
As with the other campus sports this year, 
Carnegie Mellon will have its first glimpse of 
its University Athletic Association [UAA] ri
vals this April as the team travels to Brandeis 
University for the UAA Championships. The
team feels positively about the addition of the 
UAA finals because it will give the team a 
chance to compete against more experienced 
players than it would in the PAC.
The mens season will start after Spring 
Break on Monday, April 4 against the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh Panthers at 1:00 pm.
Schlackman concluded, We lost the PACs 
last season because a lot of us choked at the 
end. Being a senior, this is my last year. I want 
to win the PACs!
Tartan hardball tries to snap a slump
Tartan Baseball experiences 
spring season changes
said club treasurer and first-baseman Perry 
Pierce. But right now, they dont want to 
take on any new varsity sports, especially 
with Mr. Banner retiring [Athletic director 
Jim Banner announced that he would retire 
as of March 31 st]. They  re really just trying 
to reorganize right now and see what they 
have, so they dont want to make all of the 
clubs varsity sports.
Another problem is that the club has not 
won a single game in two seasons. They 
finished last spring 0-3 with 14 games 
rained out, and during their fall 87 season, 
were winless in nine games. Also, consid
ering they played solely against varsity 
teams, including Division I and Big East 
teams like Duquesne and Pitt, the clubs 
record was not necessarily a result of its 
ability.
Were only a club. None of the other 
teams in the area are clubs, theyre all var
sity teams, so we schedule in on their non
conference days, said Pierce. We would 
play teams like Duquesne and lose 9-0, but 
itd be a great experience. To lose to Divi
sion I teams by scores of 5-0 or 7-2 is really 
quite respectable.
This year, the club will play more com
munity colleges, teams like Allegheny 
continued on page 17
By JUDY GROSSMAN
Tartan Stajfwriter 
The mens baseball club kicks off its spring 
season next week, and players are optimistic 
about this years team despite a dismal 0-9 
record last fall. The club plays during both fall 
and spring, but it has been plagued with prob
lems since its introduction 10 years ago.
...its difficult to predict 
how well do this season.
 Perry Pierce
Tartan file photo
The Carnegie Mellon Baseball Club will try to work its way to a winning season when 
they begin play March 24 against Larouche. Game time at Mellon Park is 1 pm.
One of the teams major problems is its status 
as a club and not a varsity sport. A main reason 
for this is the lack of an on-campus playing 
field. For now, the team must play at Mellon 
Park.
Our main goal is to go varsity, said club 
president Bruce Nibbelink. Its pretty much 
up to the administration, though, whether or 
not a baseball field will be built. I think that 
lack of a playing field is the main reason why 
we cant go varsity, but I think the coach and 
team both want to become a varsity sport. 
Weve been talking with the athletic depart
ment this year about possibly going varsity,

---------------------------------------------------

I
o
The Tartan
&
IVERSION
^RTAINMENT  COMICS  CALENDAR  CLASSIFIEDS
INSIDEI
HAPPENINGS...............Page D3
Monty Pythons Graham Chapman pres
ents something completely different
FILM.............................Page D4
April showers mean nights at the movies: 
Upcoming films at the Playhouse
CMU and L.A. Law: Star Quality
Michael Tucker skipped Speech class
By BRYAN T. SCHMIDT
Tartan Stajfwriter
Markowitz. Rollins. Tucker. Underwood. CMU. LA. LAW. Its amazing the connections one 
can make between words, people, and places, and how important those connections can be. For 
two CMU alumni, Michael 
Tucker (66) and Blair Under
wood (current special stu
dent), these six words in par
ticular have very special mean
ing. Both are currently stars of 
television  s L.A.LAW and both 
were once students at CMU.
It was the middle 60s. Eve
rything was starting to cook,
# and people were getting very 
political. With these words,
Michael Tucker sums up the 
aura that surrounded things 
during his years at CMU (then 
Carnegie Tech). Though he is 
probably best known for his 
portrayal of Stuart Markowitz, 
the gentle, shy, sensitive tax 
 attorney on L.A. LAW, his cur
rent role is only an example of 
one of the diversities com
prised by a career which has 
spanned more than two dec
ades.
Bom and raised in Baltimore,
Maryland, Tucker came to 
CMU because, It was hands 
^ down considered the best 
Drama department in the U.S. I 
didnt apply anywhere else.
He was accepted to the acting 
program and graduated four 
years later, a member of the 
class of 66.
He was one of six actors cho
sen to attend the Drama 
^ Departments Theatre Com
munications Group in New 
York City, and as a result was 
hired by the Long Wharf The
atre in New Haven, Connecti
cut. He earned $90 a week 
doing mostly childrens shows 
and occasionally appearing in 
bit parts on the main stage. It 
I was during this time that he 
met and married his first wife.
In 1968, the couple moved to 
Wisconsin, where Tucker had 
been hired to perform with the 
Milwaukee Repertory The
atre, a job, he reflects, which 
came to him through a CMU 
connection.
continued on page D2
Underwood:Will he graduate in 88?
By BRYAN T. SCHMIDT 
Tartan Stajfwriter
Coming onto an already successful, very popular show like L.A. LAW as the new kid on the 
block was very intimidating for Blair Underwood. I didnt know what to expect coming in,
being that they were on the air 
for a year, and they were al
ready a hit show, Under
wood explains. They 
couldvecomeofflike Do we 
need another character? 
Why? but they didnt. Every
one, one by one down the line 
welcomed me to the cast and 
said if I needed anything, let 
them know. Theyve been 
more than wonderful. 
Underwood's career began 
in January of 84 when he 
chose not to return to CMU to 
finish his junior year, but in
stead to go to New York and 
work. He arrived in New York 
on a Monday and arranged a 
meeting with an agent who 
represented one of his teach
ers, Billy Wilson. The follow
ing Wednesday, he had been 
cast in a small role on The 
Coshy Show as one of 
Denises boyfriends. From 
that moment on, Underwood 
went on his instinct, going 
from one job to the next. 
Having his first credit be 
Coshy was no small help ei
ther. He considers it his first 
big break. The reason I say it 
was a big break is because it 
was The Coshy Show," he 
explains.
Because his father was in the 
military and the family moved 
around a lot, Underwood 
finds it hard to pick what one 
would call a specific home
town. Petersburg, Virginia, 
however, where his father 
(now retired) and mother now 
live, comes as close as any. 
This location, in addition to 
the schools reputation, was 
among the reasons Under
wood decided to come to 
CMU.
The fact that I was accepted 
helped a lot, he says, but 
there was a lot more to con
sider before making a deci
sion. My family lived in 
continued on page D2

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2The TartanMarch 22,1988
Blair Underwood talks about 
Junior Rep., school, and Cosby
continued from page D1
Virginia and I wanted to get away to go to 
school, number one. Far enough to go away 
to school, but not all the way across country
 like say all the way to California or 
someplace like that. And I didn t want to go 
to vocational school, [like to] New York 
and go to an acting school or take drama 
classes or dance classes. I wanted the Uni
versity setting. Carnegie Mellon had all 
those things.
While attending CMU, the actor majored 
in Music Theatre, participating in a wide 
range of productions. It was during his in
volvement in these shows that Underwood 
experienced things he considers to be 
among his fondest memories of CMU. 
Crew was one of 'em, as much as every
body hates crew, he recalls. I mean, not 
fondest memories because of the work it
self, but just because of the people. The 
acting classes and Freshman Camp were 
among his others.
My fondest memory was when we did 
the Junior Rep. Our class was the first one 
to do that. We did six plays in six weeks, 
and we were kind of like the guinea pigs to 
see if it would work. It started right after 
sophomore year, coming back over the 
summer, when you no longer have to worry 
about cuts. So we were happy to be back, 
number one, and then its just a process 
when you work so closely together and you 
grow so much together. Its things like that 
that you look back on and remember, he 
recalls.
Underwood also found his training at 
CMU to be very helpful in his career. The 
training I received has been invaluable so 
far because Ive only done one play in the 
last three years  everything else has been 
in front of the cameras, he explains. You 
dont have a chance to learn how to build a 
character, to dig deep into a script. When 
you come on the set, you just have to know 
your lines and you have to have done your 
homework. You just do it. And if I hadnt 
learned how to build a character and how to 
create and make something believably real 
at Carnegie, I would be at a loss..
Also, as did Tucker, Underwood made 
some very important contacts at CMU. If 
I hadnt gone to CMU, I would not have met 
Billy Wilson, who introduced me to the 
agent I have now. I dont think I would have 
done the jobs Ive been able to do so far.
Its just one of those things as far as gut 
instinct, he continues. I felt that it was 
the right school for me to go to at that time, 
and with just living your life the best way 
you can without trying to more or less make 
contacts, things fell into place. It was just a 
matter of being in the right place and the
right time, he says.
But of all the experiences he had at CMU, 
Underwood still feels his involvement 
with the Jr. Reps, has helped him the most. 
I had the chance to play Don Juan, so I had 
to learn a full-length play over the week
end, and perform it that week, and then by 
the following week, we were on to another 
play. That experience helped me for that 
pace, and then just working in front of 
cameras. Before that, sophomore year, we 
had taken an entire semester and we would 
just work on one scene, break it down, and 
do it as many possible ways as you can. 
Junior year, all of a sudden, youre doing a 
full length play in a week. The whole idea 
behind it was: now that youve learned a 
process and a technique, just take what you 
know and dive in and just do it. And thats 
what you have to do out in the so-called 
Real World, he explains.
Of all the characters hes portrayed so far, 
Underwood considers this current role, 
Jonathan Rollins, the young, arrogant at
torney on L.A. LAW, to be his greatest 
success.
Im ecstatic about the character, Under
wood admits. Im extremely happy to be 
playing this type of character because up 
until now, because Im young, Ive played 
a lot of angry, streetwise characters. Its 
nice to play something very different from 
that.
Jonathan Rollins is certainly different 
from most young characters. Hes a young, 
new attorney, fresh out of Harvard Law 
School and ready to take on the world. 
Thats whats exciting, not to play some
one whos just going to say Yes, sir, and 
No, sir. Ill do this and Ill do that, the 
actor says. Hell [Rollins] do his own 
thing. Hes very unconventional and has 
his own tactics of doing things, [yet] hell 
never do anything illegal.
In looking toward the future? Right now 
[I want) to just do more of what Im doing 
on the show, and hopefully during the hia
tus [the three month break in filming be
tween April and July] do some other proj
ects, he responds.
And it certainly would appear that both 
LA. LAW and Blair Underwood have a 
bright future ahead of them. Blairs help
ful hints for current drama students: Con
tinue to train, Underwood advises. For 
actors I would say definitely that stage 
training, theatre training [is important]. 
Cause you can always transfer that to the 
cameras, just bring it down a couple-of 
notches. From the evidence of Blair 
Underwoods quick rise to stardom, it 
would seem that he has closely followed 
his own advice.
photo courtesy 2()th Century Fox
The cast of LA. LAW: (I. to r.) Standing; Susan Ruttan, Corbin Bernsen, Alan 
Rachins, Jimmy Smits, Richard Dysart, Michele Greene. Seated; Blair Underwood, 
Harry Hamlin, Susan Dey, Jill Eikenberry, Michael Tucker.
Michael Tucker: I
continued from page D1
The guy who was the Artistic Director, a guy 
named Tunc Yalman, was a teacher of mine at 
CMU, and he was running the theatre at the 
time and hired me, Tucker explains.
In 1969, their daughter Alison was bom, and 
the couple moved to Washington, D.C., where 
Tucker began working at the Arena Stage. It 
was there that his first marriage fell apart, and 
there that he met and fell in love with a pretty 
young actress, also in the company, Jill Eiken
berry.
She was fresh out of Yale Drama. It was her 
first job, and I had already been in Rep. for four 
years, he recalls fondly. We met, sparks 
flew, and one and a half years later during 
which time Tucker divorced his first wife and 
married Eikenberry  the couple, along with 
Tuckers one and a half year old daughter 
Alison, moved to New York City when a play 
that they were performing in moved to Broad
way.
Two weeks later, the play closed, forcing the 
couple to work at odd jobs to support them
selves. Fortunately, after less than six months, 
Eikenberry was cast in an Off-Broadway 
show, and soon Tucker was working again. In 
fact, it wasn't long before he had worked in 
nearly every theatre in New York City. 
Tucker considers several of the shows he did 
in his early days to be among the highlights of 
his career.
I guess careerwise L.A. Law is certainly the 
biggest effect Ive ever had. I think the biggest 
success artistically was probably the produc
tion of [Samuel Becketts] Waiting for Godot 
that I did in Milwaukee. I think thats the thing 
Im proudest of, he says. Doing Woody 
Allens film Radio Days was a real highlight. 
And I guess the other highlight was a produc
tion of [Shakespeares] Comedy of Errors that 
I did at Joe Papps theatre in [New Yorks] 
Central Park.
Of the benefits CMU provided to him as a 
student, Tucker comments: Number one, one
of the most important things about a drama 
school is that you meet people who, years later, 
will be someplace in the business, and cer
tainly that was a case with a number of people 
I met there. Secondly, it was training, and it 
was damn good training. I got my feet under 
me as an actor there. A lot of people go to New 
York or Los Angeles and just sort of jump in. 
And I think they dont know inside them 
whether they can really do it or not. By the time 
I got to New York, after four years at CMU and 
eight years in Rep., I think I knew at least I was 
an actor  and that helped me a hell of a lot 
when things got difficult, when I couldnt get 
a job. I didnt give up thinking that I could do 
it.
One of the most important contacts Tucker 
made at CMU was Steven Bochco, co-creator 
and executive producer of L.A. LAW. The two 
became close friends at CMU and always kept 
in touch. In fact, Bochco later used Tucker and 
Eikenberry as models when he was creating 
the Stuart Markowitz and Ann Kelsey charac
ters, currently portrayed by the pair on L.A. 
LAW. Bochco called one day and said, Im 
writing a series about a group of lawyers and 
Id like to base a couple of the characters on 
you and Jill, Tucker explains. The two 
agreed and the rest is history.
Of his character, Tucker speaks fondly. I 
think hes fantastic. I admire Stuart Markow
itz. He accepts himself for what he is. Hes 
such a total human being.
Tucker recalled several fond memories of 
CMU, among them: The sort of long coffee 
klatches at Skibo in the morning while I was 
cutting Speech class. But he also found the 
community of people and the atmosphere to be 
important. It was really the community of 
actors and acting teachers and that whole 
thing. It was all very heady and exciting to me 
to think of myself as a professional actoror 
at least someone who was going to be a profes
sional actor. And thats all we talked about. 
We were in the theatre and somehow it became
knew I could do it
photo courtesy 20th Century Fox
Tucker and Jill Eikenberry of LA. LAW.
this cocoon-like world that [wouldnt let us] 
see much else. I think it all opened up later, but 
at the time we were so absorbed with becom
ing actors and directors and writers that we sort 
of spun this cocoon around ourselves. If some
body said, Are you a radical or are you this? 
I'd say I was an actor  becoming so en
grossed in this world of the theatre, it was just 
very exciting, very stimulating.
What does the performer think of his current 
success on LA. LAWl I think its the most 
intelligent, literate show on T.V. Im very 
proud to be on it, he says.
Tuckers advice to future performers? 
Mostly I have to say stick to it. Its a question 
of longevity. Work anywhere, work for noth
ing. Work wherever you can work and get con
fidence in yourself, then just stick to it. It does 
sort of pan out. The good people do work 
eventually.

---------------------------------------------------

March 22,1988The TartanPage D3
Pythonian will lecture in Skibo Ballroom
By ERIKA L. PETERSON
Tartan Managing Editor
And now for something completely different
 from AB Lectures. Famed veteran of BBC 
TVs zany Monty Python s Flying Circus, 
Graham Chapman will be visiting Carnegie 
Mellon on Tuesday, April 5 as part of his 
fourth college lecture tour. His informal lec
tures reportedly begin with a few minutes of 
abuse, in which the audience pelts the 
speaker with various household objects, and 
include brief clips of Monty Python material 
as well as some discussion about his recent 
projects.
A writer, producer, director and lecturer, 
Chapman is best known for his work with 
^vlonty Python, a British comedy troupe which 
attracted a huge following in Britain and in the 
United States through its television series, 
Monty Python s Flying Circus, although it 
only filmed for three seasons. The troupe 
began in 1968 and included Chapman, John 
Cleese, Eric Idle, Michael Palin, Terry Jones, 
and Terry Gilliam. A long standing favorite of 
public television stations, the series appears 
bn commercial television for the first time in 
its history on MTV at 6:30 pm, Monday 
through Thursday.
Outside of the television show the group 
made four movies; Monty Python and the 
Holy Grail, Life of Brian, Monty Python's 
Meaning of Life, and Monty Python Live at the 
Hollywood Bowl. Chapman starred in two of 
the Python movies  as the perpetually late 
4 thirteenth disciple Brian in Life of Brian, and 
as the lunatic King Arthur in Monty Python 
and the Holy Grail.
Monty Python also performed in a stage 
show which ran in London and New York, and 
toured England and Canada. The troupe also
released several books, entitled Monty 
Pythons Big Red Book, Brand New Monty 
Python Book, and Montypythonscrapbook, as 
well. The group is no longer performing to
gether, but there are rumors of the possibility of 
another movie in a few years.
Prior to his years with the troupe, Chapman 
studied and received his degree to be a medical 
doctor in 1966. Performing, however, became 
his main interest, and he went to New Zealand 
with future fellow Python John Cleese, also a 
student, to perform in the Footlights Revue. 
The pair then wrote for The Frost Report, a 
BBC-TV series, and Chapman continued to 
write for BBC-TV, including work on Illus
trated Weekly Hudd, At Last the 1948 Show, 
and Marty, all BBC-TV series.
After the start of the Python series, Chapman 
continued to write for many other films and 
series. In 1972, Chapman, a homosexual, co
founded the Gay News newspaper.
Since Python, Chapman has been busy with 
projects of his own. In 1980, he released his 
book, A Liars Autobiography. In 1981 he 
appeared at 23 American college campuses 
during his first lecture series, and in 1983, in 
his second series, he visited 15 campuses. In 
1983, the film Yellowbeard, which Chapman 
wrote, was also released. In 1984 and 1985, 
Chapman participated in several expeditions 
with the Dangerous Sports Club, a group de
voted to suicidal sports such as hang gliding 
over Ecuadorean volcanos, and zipping down 
ski slopes in wooden Venetian gondolas. He 
discusses the group in his lectures.
More recently, Chapman produced Love 
Potion Number Nine, a thriller horror movie 
shot in England and released in 1987. That 
same year, Chapman hosted Dangerous Film 
Club on Cinemax, a half hour program which
photo courtesy Greater Talent Network Inc. 
Portrait of a dangerous man: Graham Chapman is coming, and you better watch out.
aired short film clips sent to the Home Box 
Office network by viewers.
Chapman has also written, produced and di
rected a film entitled Ditto containing  you 
guessed it  twins, which is due for release 
this year. Chapman is currently in London 
filming a new comedy adventure series Jakes 
Journey, for CBS. Chapman will be writing,
producing, and acting in the series which is the 
story of a teenage boy who moves from the 
U.S. to London and becomes involved in a 
fantasy world.
The lecture begins at 8 pm, April 5, 1988, in 
the Skibo Ballroom. Attendance for the lec
ture is expected to be very high, so arrive early 
for a good seat.

ft
The Tartan is proud to announce a Quidnunc Production...
Carnegie Mellon s First Annual 
New Music Festival <s^.
April 9h, 1988 (raindate April 10th) |C4
#88
#
*on The Cut 
FEATURING:
THE SHIFT
ATS
PERMANENT WINK 
SPAHN RANCH 
FOR AGAINST 
SAVAGE REPUBLIC
99
&
Ad Sponsored by The Tartan
i

---------------------------------------------------

Page D4The TartanMarch 22,1988
New movies at Playhouse in April "
By MICHAEL SCHWARTZ
Tartan Staffer iter
The Pittsburgh Playhouse, under the di
rection of Point Park College, will be 
featuring another exciting collection of 
films in April.
The month starts off with My Life as a 
Dog, which was recently shown in 
Doherty 2210. This Swedish comitragedy tells the story of a 12-year-old 
boy sent to live with relatives in rural 
Sweden, and how he deals with the 
imminent death of his mother. The show 
starts Friday, April 1, and runs through 
April 14.
Starting on April 15 (beware ye the IRS) 
the Japanese film Tampopo begins. >4 
Called The first Japanese noodle west
ern, this comedy centers around the 
owner of a small diner in Tokyo and her 
pursuit of the perfect noodle recipe. Food 
and sex  the combination that 9'/, 
Weeks made famous  are also featured 
in a series of hilarious vignettes. The 
show runs through April 21.
The Computer Animation Show will run 
from April 22 - 28. Created by the people 
of Walt Disney Productions, Pixar, Digi
tal Productions, the Late Night Group 
and other studios, this is a collection of 
what is probably the funniest computer 
animation youve ever seen. There are 
thirty of these computer designed ani
mated stories in the ninety minute show. 
The show is a must for lovers of state-ofthe-art animation and high-tech laughter 
(If I told you theyre computerized car
toons, would you go?). Some of the 
material featured in this collection was 
also included in The 20th International 
Tournee of Animation, which ran at the 
Playhouse in January and in DH 2210 a 
few weeks ago.
The final feature of April will be Dark 
Eyes, which starts on April 29 and runs 
through May 5. This 1987 Italian film 
tells the story of Romano, a man who just 
cant seem to get his life together. He 
marries into a wealthy family and then 
falls in love with another woman. The 
film is rated R.
Admission to any of the shows is $2.95 
at the Pittsburgh Playhouse, 222 Craft 
Avenue in Oakland. Times for My Life as 
a Dog, Tampopo and The Computer 
Animation Show are 7:30 pm and 9:30 
pm, with additional shows on Friday and 
Saturday at 11:30 pm. Dark Eyes will be 
shown at 7:30 pm and 9:40 pm Sunday 
through Thursday with an additional 
showing at 11:50 pm on Friday and Sat
urday.
For more information call 621-4445.
Summer Housing Near Campus
 Furnished Rooms & Apartments, 
Private Bath
 All Utilities Paid
 Maid & Linen Service
 Laundrv & Parking
Only $70.00 weekly 
Only $240.00 monthly
682-7010
LUXURY 1 BR OAKLAND-SHADYSIDE 
Faculty-Grad Students 
No Undergraduates 
Elevator, A/C, Kitchen 
equipped w/dishwasher, etc. 
Laundry, security, well maintained 
Glickman 521-9555
SHADYSIDE 2 BR MAY 1st 
Furnished or Unfurnished 
Large: Ideal of 3 or 4 
1 Block from Walnut St. 
Equipped remodeled kitchen & bath 
Glickman 521-9555
Hit the hyperspace reverse zoomer, Admiral!
Remember the first time you saw Star Wars? 
I was ten years old when I first saw it  about 
four months after it came out  and I thought 
it was pretty cool. To see it up on the big screen 
is an adventure just short of going to the 
NCAA Final Four (TV takes a little bit of the 
grandiosity out of the big productions). I 
wasnt into it as much as some of my friends 
were, the ones that had 
imitation light sabres 
and allowed May the 
Force be with you to 
slip into their vocabu
lary, but I thought the 
film was O.K. It was 
O.K. enough to anticipate a sequel  which 
would come soon enough  or a television 
series loosely based on it (which would come 
even sooner).
The series that came along was Battlestar 
Galactica, ABCs multi-jillion dollar version 
of the most elaborate screen production of the 
70s. The first show, which was a three-hour 
special that aired on September 17,1978, cost 
three million dollars (thats $3 MILLION) to 
create. That amount is reportedly the most 
expensive premiere in television history. 
Geez, they could have made sixty seasons of 
We Got It Made with that money.
The shows plot was your basic space epic
plot. The inhabitants of the Galactica system 
fled from their planets in a rag-tag bunch of 
ships (called an armada) led by the bigmomma-take-no-crap-queen-of-the-spacecruisers Battlestar Galactica. They were 
driven from the planet by a bunch of mean 
mutant machine beings called the Cylons who 
were bom with bolts placed in uncomfortable 
parts of their anatomy. 
The Cylons were on a 
quest to destroy all 
humanoid life forms, 
the natural goal of all 
living mechanical 
beings. The goal of 
the armada was to reach Earth for a haven and 
for reinforcements. Just what I need; an ar
mada bringing a bunch of bad-ass robots to my 
doorstep.
The show had two noticeable stars. The most 
noticeable was Lome Greene, who played 
Commander Adama. Greene was a good 
choice for this character, as his authoritative 
sounding voice and looks make him very 
leader-like. As Adama, his role of saving a 
race was quite convincing. Probably would 
have worked better if he hadnt been doing 
Alpo commercials at the time.
The other recognizable face  much more 
recognizable now that when Battlestar first
came out  was Dirk Benedict. Benedict is 
now recognizable as Face from that bullethole Fu phenom of the 80s, The A-Team. 
Benedict played Starbuck, the hot-shot lieu
tenant of the group. Battlestars version of 
Luke Skywalker? Nah, had to be a coinci
dence.
The acting was above par, but the most 
unique aspect of this show was the special 
effects. If the effects looked a little bit like Star 
Wars, its probably not an illusion. John 
Dykstra, the man responsible for the special 
effects in Star Wars, was one of the executive 
producers of Battlestar. Your normal amount 
of hyperspace transportation, Meteorite Fu 
and ship explosion was on display, but the 
super effects such as those inside the ships in 
Star Wars were not done. Dykstra did have to 
save something for The Empire Strikes Back 
and Return of the Jedi. He wouldnt have 
made any money of those movies if he hadnt 
(If you believe that, I have some peaceful land 
to sell you in downtown Beirut).
There was a sequel to this show called Galac
tica 1980, in which the Galactians reach Earth, 
but it lasted only two months, only a little 
shorter than the one season Battlestar ran. The 
show was popular among children, and com
mercial spots for toys on this show should have 
continued on page D9
AT&TThe right choice.
66 No matter how bad they are, Grandma loves to hear the latest jokes.55
You miss her sparkling 
sense of humor. She misses 
you and your jokes. Even the 
bad ones. Thats one good 
reason to call long distance. 
AT&T Long Distance Service 
is another good reason. Be
cause it costs less than you 
think to hear your grand
mother start to giggle be
fore you even get to the 
punch line.
So whenever you miss 
her laughter, bring a smile 
to her face with AT&T. Reach 
out and touch someone
If youd like to know more 
about AT&T products and 
services, like the AT&T Card, 
call us at 1 800 222-0300.
*

---------------------------------------------------

RROIRI3CInnninnnm
wnn I noooi
nnnnn nnnn
By Berke Breathed 
Funded by
Student Dormitory Council
/7> hMdhMc*r /M< ox / or6*1* TXiAT/eATVlDLO STORES IN SDEE/^7^v-y
/ r-KfX !
/ Of op
ldPEP wOLLOG TOw wOGGPA oK
WITHOUT ft WILL. f\ MEMBER 
OF HI5 WAKE ms THUS
wiGwOdQTPw ro UdQT TCG
EARTHLY BOOTY
ITINCLUPEP: CM BOOKS,
A FRAT PIN, LOOSE CHftN&E 
ANP ft BOTTLE OF "OLP SPICE; 
WHICH PORTNOY flCClPENTftLLY 
PRANK, CAUSING HIM TO RUN 
AROUNP THINKING HE WAS 
"ftUNT PEA'
A BOX OF TROJANS mS ALSO 
FOUNP ANP, AFTER MUCH 
PE BATE, FINALLY IPENTIFlEP 
AS POSSIBLY BEINO MICRO
WAVE JELL-0 MOLPS.
THE LATTER WERE FILLEP 
WITH WATER ANP PELNEREP 
AIRBORNE UNTO MRS. PAULA 
PECMHISTLE'S PASSING 
PONTIAC... WHICH PRETTY WEIL 
WRAPPEP WINGS THE HECK 
UP FOR THE NIGHT.SS*-'
STEVIE, STEVIE' 
STEVIE. STEVIE / 
WEH APPLY 
\ KNEW YE '
SAY... WHAT'S THAT 
UP THERE ? AN 
ftUEN SPACECRAFT ?/
JEEPERS' 
:GULP'~ WHAT 
5-STEVE ? HAPPENEP ?
affteaa
collegiate crossword
NO, NO / TM UP, 
FELLAS.' SAY...WHAT 
A BEAUVFUL, BEAUTIFUL 
MORNING THIS IS/
IH6ARP WE HE'S-HES 
ALIENS GAVE RESTING. 
STEVE BACK ' HE'S NOT 
LEMME EXACTLY 
SEE HIM // HIMSELF AT.__\ THE MOMENT...
ANYONE FOR 
CHURCH7TH05E
BROWN,
THOUGHTFUL
GLOBS'
WHAT
ARE WO SE f
WINGS (M
ON HIS I
FACE ? WHAT 
/ WINGS p
WHAPPYA THE ALIENS 
MEAN THEY TRANS-REVERSE# 
GAVE STEVE HIS BRAIN.
BACK ?/ WE __I
JUST GAVE HIM 
AWAKE/__ ( ,r -r^
HELLO, SUN/ HELLO. ROSE.' 
HELLO, TULIPS TW/XT 
MY WES...
YA MEAN GO FETCH 
"HEIPI OF WE ME A LOAPEP 
SWISS ALPS " BAZOOKA . 
THERE 7 ^
HE'S RIGHT 
OVER 
THERE.PEG
PftRPON 7
Edward Julius Collegiate CW8717
1 GOT 
A PERM
THOUGHT VP 
LOOK MORE LIKE 
ALAN ALPA
600P MORNING, STEVE. 
I'VE BEEN ASSIGNEP BY 
THE STEVE PALLAS 
PERSONALITY INVESTIGATION 
COMMITTEE ' TO PETERMINE 
THE EXTENT OF YOURUH- fa
EXCUSE ME.
IS THAT 
LINGO IN I 
ON YOUR HEAP7
HERE YA GO, 
My MAN .'
HE BOUGHT PLEATEP mNTS ' 
ANP HE ATE JUST GRAPES ANP BRIE CHEESE FOR 
LUNCH ' T TELL YA,
THERES NOTHING HE COULP 
PO WAT WOULP SURPRISE
\ ANYMORE'
MILO ' WIS IS OPUS 
CHECKING IN ' STEVE 
IS PEFtNtTELY NOT...
REPEAT. S.2 ------- HIMSELF'
*r> /
These are the answers to 
last issues crossword 
puzzle!
BLOOM COUNTYInkspotsBy Kurt Shaw

---------------------------------------------------

1OT0....
JAwr 
dUB,To ut HeIN
,Ws8i
IlMl'iWI' inmvpiMMppp
George fl. Humero Presents:
fa, fU Vst ** m&oaftttk..
ir STOP HiNtHW-i
By Javier GrilloMarxuach
By Grant Carmichael
S/totonkKtOontoitl
- By John AriBy K. Ratface
,8ld TW8
ZssM
WAVS, KID.
out f
rtoS*' narf 
f|*m Mfcf
L ^
ajiwJ-^thuX?
3 XOCZZZMTwe woroiie in fuaj euF*koeME*fr
t <- I

---------------------------------------------------

img'MMl UHJ
MfeoMf/
8hp Ec
RTANS
'Jofikf&Uc
ty John Arnott & Margo Whittier
c_3d^ '  1 
- By Craig Schlechter & Amanda Cohen
Q
A NIG
MM
RE ON
N 1 \NSESAME STREEy
-Melanie mN&wo&A A LOVAHUE- ^EE< -
 AN TWRMt VMM* As 'atlim* 
J
left cEMmeif Volum PRss&r, * metes e8o2,loIIs 1C8a22momk GMa*cM,iiWKMee nai6 mp a oNErWB wr 5M ww wsf?- BK iwc  mo 9nbm* m wnsw moct aw*oarl R4U* TO MPlWT OP SOCIAL COMMENT, UP A 3MWK>-UP 
ORNttG Mb MP9NC0WHRt6ll& HMtMMKCfc HMR* MIM A NIP, 
WNM sow****. Wi PtteNau but non** /MT\ HCTmS,W6tf6fgSAI18eBfiBaM&)<CWK w MA16I COSIUMSS W SAKS AND tfrNMT' PH# * TWN-O-VtSoN*'w -me suM*At/-wrnw y,, - fcuoMr MM wen in seat
I USEP Tb WAX To THE 9VW6 500 MUSS M A MCtNtD vev PAf ???
6000 TH ptmsr Ntt** T***S,
tfT%fCKUM& I hi [({ >Wfc RBU&I6US a^WEHED *
W*f 1^61*1* oW ANY **/- *n.OSive Arenow oav Ailb il
fI PAY LYESpr
SHJToe loof 
MdV) 1WWVi
oaTeYw%,
W- iA(J6tT flfcJC <*11? 1Be FucKi fmnltfu. 
BL mar/
* ;-0
*ntM0CM4P5 ,6^
th
- By Nell McCarthy
t O
I
-By NAJ
- By Amy J. Somrak
- By Danny Fahs

---------------------------------------------------

Page D8The TartanMarch 22, 1988
NewFest coming to CMU
PITTSBURGH  On Saturday, April 9th, 
1988 (rain-date Sunday, April 10th), 
Quidnunc Productions will present the local 
premiere of NewFest, an all-day collection of 
outdoor musical performances. The beginning 
of an on-going event to be held annually on the 
Carnegie Mellon campus, NewFest will bring 
together bands from both the Pittsburgh and 
national new music scene.
The concert will be free to the public and 
offer numerous concessions (i.e. commemo
rative t-shirts, color brochures, food and bev
erages), but the highlight of the event, of 
course, will be the music, which holds some
thing for everyone.
Featuring:
 ATS: local country-punk rockabilly leg
ends: they have built up a large following, 
playing at numerous local clubs; they will 
soon be releasing their first 7-inch single.
 For Against: hail from Lincoln, Nebraska, 
but hardly sound like it; their combination of 
distorted, shimmering guitar-sound and fast 
rhythms puts them in the company of promi
nent European new wave bands; their first 
album, Echelons, is available through inde
pendent Project Records/Chameleon Music 
Group.
 Permanent Wink: from Somerset, PA, they
are currently semi-finalists in the Tri-State 
Rock competition; a four-piece progressive 
rock group combining elements of Southern 
guitar jangle and white gospel harmonies 
within solid song arrangements, they have 
released two self-produced four-track cas
settes.
 Savage Republic: a six-piece, predomi
nantly instrumental, avant-garde percussion 
group from Los Angeles, California; they util
ize two percussionists and several distinct 
guitar techniques to yield an intense African 
tribal-influenced rock sound; have two do
mestic LPs and a double live album on Inde
pendent Project Records, and an import EP on 
the Play It Again Sam label (Belgium); are 
currently in the studio working on a new LP.
 The Shift: a Carnegie Mellon band, they 
have acquired a sizeable local following play
ing campus venues; blues-based rock, both 
acoustic and amplified.
 Spahn Ranch: coming from Detroit, Michi
gan, they present a very honest, emotional 
sound with tense, raw arrangements featuring 
acoustic and monotone guitar excursions atop 
tribal-based drumming with folkish vocals.
Again, admission is free, and all are invited to 
attend. For further information, please call our 
main office at (412) 661-1535.
No Frills, No Italics,
NO MEETING
for Diversions Staff this week, due to the sud 
den but not unexpected arrival of Spring
Break.
All writers are required not to attend.
SI_IRPRI 5EWERE T0
rer. that's the truth.
AU- ATTeP trtW&JPb 
(&XOe.TT CFA OKI APRIL l<?) 
UIU- VI^IT FP. THfc <^FK1Mq
SLEEPIM4 WEKgwp. 
MOST NOW
yvu P- Name________________________pu<sue._______
t&K *=______________TCfZW/f&o^___________________________________
VOiiK. MA70f?_.------------------------------------
i'd k miuzp Ta HosTfr4^ B?e>
____APRIL 1(7-11 ____APRIL 24-25
Tt> P HCWREP To esokt 
____APRL (CHI AfKIL 24-23
JZJEirvfcW TV WARMER-HALL-/>(., *2>>2-
Installation for Forbes
By EDIE LOCKE
Special to The Tartan
Tomorrow night Michael Parker and A1 
Morales will open their collaborative installa
tion at the Forbes Gallery. These two senior 
artists, having mutual respect for each others 
ideas and work, wanted to create an installa
tion piece, collaborating and combining their 
concepts into one environment.
Titled, In the Heart, much of the show is 
based on the idea of a spiral with its continu
ous movement out from a central point. The 
piece is to be a natural presentation of the way 
things are and how they grow, both literally 
and figuratively, physically and spirtually, 
with the idea of centers as an important aspect 
of the spirit. The spiral refers to the way 
things grow, explains Morales, from the 
center outward, with the heart at the center of 
the being.
Parker adds that, the viewpoint is a gener
alist one. Nothing will be making a specific 
statement and there will be no opinion pre
sented. The show is a journey through the 
growth of things and what you find along the 
way. The point is, youre going to notice 
small things which you probably wouldnt 
pay attention to in an everyday situation and 
like a spiral, those things will feed into each
other. Its all part of the same system.
Sound plays an important role in the show 
and is used as a unifying ambience to fill the 
space. Each component of the installation has 
a certain quality which is to act on the differ
ent senses.
Commenting that the idea for the theme of 
the installation started with Morales, whose 
biggest influence is nature, Parker explains 
that his reasons for collaboration were to do 
something totally different from his past 
work. I wanted to gain a different point of 
view, he states, and this is unlike anything 
Ive ever done. All my other multi-media 
work, such as video and performance, is 
coauthored and collaborative to gain different 
viewpoints and insight. Im interested in the 
dematerialization of art itselfgetting rid of 
the single artist as the heroic individual. 
Morales remarks, I knew Mike was inter
ested in creating spaces with atmospheric 
sound and I was also interested in working 
with Mike and having that other input thats 
possible with collaboration. By working to
gether Ive been forced to pare things down. 
The work has gone through a lot of stages and 
collaboration was a good way to see what was 
less necessary so I could focus on the more 
important elements.
jWhy is this person \ 
aving her arms? IB........ _ f
photo by Jeff Rosenblum
Shes practicing for Scotch & Sodas Improv 88: Evening Explosion, an improvisational 
show that will run April 14-17 in the Skibo Ballroom. Ticket price will be $3.50 with 
student ID, $4.50 without. No two shows will be the same!
GALdanc nceprt AcegprFebruary 28 - March 11,1988
ARTIST
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
Animal Time 
Dick Destiny and 
the Highway Kings 
SWANS 
Red Lorry, 
Yellow Lorry 
Breaking Circus 
Slab! 
Fibbonaccis 
Metallica
Mission of Burma 
And Also The Trees
Double Veteran 
Brutality 
Children of God 
Smashed Hits 
Smokers Paradise 
Descension 
Civilization and Its 
Discotheques 
Garage Days 
Re-revisited 
EP 
The Evening of the 
24th
Brave Dog 
Destination 
Caroline 
Red Rhino(UK)/ 
Fundamental 
Homestead 
Ink(UK) 
Blue Yonder 
Elektra 
Taang
Reflex(UK)
W
R
C
W
R
C
T

---------------------------------------------------

March 22, 1988The TartanPage D9
Not for the squeamish: Joe Bob takes on that Vietnamese food
Before I tell you about Braddock: Missing 
in Action 3, where Chuck Norris goes over 
to Vietnam to get out all the prisoners he 
forgot to get out in his last three movies, I 
wanna talk to you for a minute about the 
greatest threat to human rights the world has 
ever known:
Vietnamese refugees who can NEVER GO
: Joe-Bob Goes i 
j to the Drive-In :
HOME because theyre getting too rich in 
the restaurant business.
We may never know how many there really 
are. NO one wants to talk about it. The only 
official reports we have is that theyve been 
scattered throughout the midwest, in places 
like St. Louis, Kansas City, Omaha, so that 
they can be hidden from sight among 
populations who believe they run Chinese 
restaurants.
Heres just one blood-curdling example. At 
the Nguyen Van Thuy Happy Eggroll 
Restaurant in Tyler, Texas, patrons are 
served cabbage-leaf bamboo-shoot sweetand-sour fondue fajitas, a dish which would 
be recognized by any Vietnam veteran as the 
famous G.I. Griddle sold at the open-air 
market in Dien Bien Phu as a cure for 
malaria. Yet the local restaurant critic in 
Tyler calls it simply scrumptious oriental 
fast food.
The question I keep asking is Why? Why 
this massive cover-up story by the govern
ment? Why not let these innocent people go 
home? Why prolong the secret war?
Why? Ill tell you why, says Colonel 
Jeffrey T. Two-Nosed Windsor of the 
U.S. Marines top-secret Operation Doggie 
Bag. Because the Cong never forgets. They
I----------------------------------
suffered, now were gonna suffer. Do you 
realize how much monosodium glutamate is 
packed into every single plate of black piggy 
goo they serve? Do you? Lemme put it this 
way. They said Agent Orange was a crime.
Windsor refused to comment on exactly 
what covert operations were underway at 
this time to get the Vietnamese restaurants 
safely OUT of the country where they 
belong, but this reporter was able to gather a 
few details:
1) Sometime in 1988 the Internal Revenue 
Service will conduct Routine audits of 
anyone living in this country without any 
visible vowels in his name.
2) Shortly thereafter, this information will 
be used to identify targets for rescue 
operation in nine American cities.
3) Crash teams of trained health inspectors, 
building-code experts, and killer restaurant 
critics will descend on approximately 100 
Vietnamese restaurants and, within one day, 
offer them all one-way tickets on Thai 
Airways to Ho Chi Minh City. These brave 
men, our only hope at this point, are known, 
of course, as the Ng Team. Lets give them 
all the support we can.
Speaking of exposure to lethal substances, 
Braddock: Missing in Action 3 is the 
latest exploding-bamboo classic from 
Cannon Films, but this time Chuck has to fly 
back over to Nam to get all the imprisoned 
ORPHANS out of there. For the last 13 
years Chuck thought his Vietnamese wife 
was dead, cause just before he got airlifted 
out of Saigon he saw this body that looked 
like a charcoal briquet with eyeballs, and he 
ASSUMED it was his wife cause she was 
wearing an ivory bracelet.
Unfortunately, Chuck married somebody 
so stupid she hasnt figured out how to use 
the telephone the past 13 years, and so all
she does all day long is sit around in her 
mud shack with the son that Chuck dont 
know he has and they PRAY for Chuck to 
come back. Of course, We know what 
Chuck was doing all those years  he was 
making Missing in Action 1 and 2. 
Anyhow, finally a Catholic priest is making 
his rounds in the Nam projects, and he finds 
this lady named Mr. James Braddock, and 
he thinks Thats funny, only he dont 
know how to use the telephone either and so 
he flies to Washington, D.C., and finds 
Chuck in a bar and tells the CIA so they can 
hassle Chuck and tell him, Hey, man, you 
dont need a wife. Forget the bimbo. So 
that Chuck can eventually fly back over to 
Nam and kickbox some Commie hiney.
We all know what happens next. He sneaks 
into Nam. He gets captured and tortured by 
the sadistic General Quoc. Then he tapdances on the teeth of 140 machine-guntoting Congaroos until he can get the 
orphans out of the country. The people do 
know how to make a sequel.
We may have a new exploding bamboo 
record: 75 dead bodies, including five 
broken necks with excellent sound effects. 
No breasts. Diehard battery torture. Tiptoe 
torture. Three exploding bamboo towers. 
Five exploding jeeps. Two exploding trucks. 
Exploding chopper. Plane crash. Three 
motor vehicle chases, including an Army 
truck full of orphans chased through the 
jungle by a missile-equipped assault copter. 
Gratuitous belly dancing. Kung Fu. Pontoon 
bumper boat Fu. Shoulder cannon Fu.
Saigon Fu. Bangkok Fu. Ho Chi Fu. AsianAmerican Actors Guild Fu. Drive-In 
Academy Award nominations for Ron 
Barker, as the sleazeball Bangkok arms 
merchant friend, for saying Vietnam  I 
never thought Id be coming back  I guess
we never really CAN leave, can we? Miki 
Kim, as the wife that sat in a mud shack 
waitin on Chuck for 13 years, for saying 
Oh, it doesnt matter; Aki Aleong, as the 
evil General Quoc, for saying You must 
PAY for the crimes you have committed 
against my country! and Braddock! 
Braddock! Boogie Eye! Boogie Eye!; Jack 
Rader, as Little John the CIA three-piece 
high sheriff, for screaming Dont step on 
toes, Braddock! and Big Chuck, for saying 
I dont step on toes, Little John, I step on 
NECKS! and Kids, get in the truck! and 
Walk or crawl, were gonna make it! 
Three stars. Joe Bob says check it out.
Small screen Star 
Wars: A look 
back at Battlestar
continued from page D4
been considerably high, but ABC de
cided to drop it after the year. This is 
testimony to the meteoric rise of the 
space fad on both the big screen and 
on television. Even the vastness of 
space cant fend off boredom and 
complacency.
Battlestar ran on Sundays at 8 during 
its season of glory, but isnt currently 
on any network or syndication any
where. It probably never will run any
more, either, because of the afore
mentioned death of the space craze. 
But take heart, someone has taken my 
advice. Some syndication is reviving 
We Got It Made. Personally, Id 
rather watch one-jillionth of Star 
Wars on television.
nCONTEST!!
Get Ready for Spring Carnival 1988
1.
The following excerpts are from Fairy Tales or Nursery Rhymes. 
Identify the fairytale or nursery rhyme from which they are taken and 
receive one point for each correct answer.
It followed her to school one day,
Which was against the rule. __________________________
11.She ran as long as her legs would carry her and then, just before 
nightfall, she saw a little house and went in to rest. Inside the 
house everything was tiny, but wonderfully neat and clean.
2. Rings on her fingers and bells on her toes.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
The dogs do bark;
The beggars are coming to town.
Up Jack got and home did trot,
As fast as he could caper, ...
Her mother came and caught her 
And whipped her little daughter 
For spoiling her nice new clothes.
Some like it in the pot,
Nine days old.
12.
13.
14.
Now set to work, and if by the early morning thou hast not spun 
this straw to gold thou shalt die. __________________________
Now it happened that after a while the woman had a child who 
was perfect in all his limbs, but no bigger than a thumb.
Nibble, nibble like a mouse, 
Who is nibbling at my house?
Bonus Question (worth 5 points):
15. What is the name of the fairytale upon which the story Cinderella is 
based?
Name:
Phone:
Basic Instructions:
She found them indeed, but it made her heart bleed 
For theyd left their tails behind them. _____________
When the blazing sun is gone, 
When he nothing shines upon, 
Then you show your little light, ...
Then the wedding of the prince and Rosamond was held with all 
splendor, and they lived happily together until their lives end.
When she was twelve years old, the witch took her to the middle of 
the forest and shut her up in a tower that had neither stairs nor 
door, but only a little window at the very top.
L_
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
Answer as many questions as possible. The maximum number of 
points possible is 20.
Entries are due no later than Wednesday, April 6,1988 at 6 pm. They 
are to be handed in at the Skibo info Desk in the Spring Carnival 
Committee mailbox.
Winners will be notified by Friday, April 8th. Prizes will be awarded at 
the opening ceremonies of the Spring Carnival, Thursday April 14th 
at 4:30 pm.
All entrants must be registered CMU students. Prizes will only be 
awarded to winners with valid student i.d.
Any point ties between possible winners will be decided by lottery. 
Prize Scheme: 1st: $125.00, 2nd: $ 50.00, 3rd: $ 25.00
Note: Any questions about this contest can be directed to Lori and 
placed in the Spring Carnival mailbox.
_i

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements
Richard M. Cyert will have open office hours 
for students between 2 pm and 5 pm, in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Monday, March 
21,1988. Students who wish to meet with the 
president should telephone his secretary on 
x2200 to set up an appointment.
Student Ombudsman will have open office 
hours for students to discuss concerns, register 
complaints and help resolve problems. Days 
and times available for appointments are at the 
Skibo Information Desk @x2107. Phone 
messages @x5764 (24 hrs a day).
Help Begin A Great Work Of Art. Work 
donated by present and past Board Members 
of The Associated Artists of Pittsburgh for the 
upcoming Benefit Auction. The Auction is 
being held to raise money for the purchase of 
937 Liberty Avenue building in the emerging 
Cultural District in Downtown Pittsburgh. 
This exhibit runs through March 27. Silent 
bidding may be exercised. The Auction takes 
place at the PPG Wintergarden on April 23. 
An exhibition of photographs by Anne 
Fishbein focusing on an American way of life. 
Many of the images were taken on U.S. Route 
66. Hewlett Gallery, CFA 1st floor, through 
March 22.
Gordon Matta Clark. A retrospective exhi
bition of this conceptual artist, organized by 
the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago. 
Carnegie Mellon University Art Gallery, 407
S. Craig St. Through April 10. Gallery Hours 
are 10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday through Friday; 11 
am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm - 4 pm, Sunday. 
Three Rooms with a View. Three guest cu
rators, David Lewis, Louis Mueller and Ann 
Nathan, were invited to each create a room of 
a house. Their only mandate was to utilize 
works made in a craft medium within the 
context of the space. Through April 3. The 
Society For Art in Crafts, 21 st and Smallman 
Streets, The Strip District. Gallery Hours are 
10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday through Saturday; 1 pm
- 4 pm, Sunday.
Roman Catholic Oratory. Celebrate mass 
on campus at 7 pm, Saturday night and 10:30 
am, Sunday morning, in the GSIA Audito
rium. Daily Mass is celebrated at 12:30 pm, 
Monday through Friday, in CMs Chapel 
(Skibo Rm. 39). For more information call 
681-3181.
Is There Anyone Else Like Me On Campus?
If you are experiencing attractions toward 
members of the same sex, the answer is yes. 
Join sympathetic peers for informal discus
sions of issues that are important to you. For 
details, contact the CMU Gay and Lesbian 
Alliance via campus mail c/o Skibo Informa
tion Desk or via computer mail to ga0y@tb. 
All responses are confidential.
Buhl Science Center:
Laserium. 8 pm and 9:15 pm, Thursday 
through Sunday; and 3 pm, Saturday. For 
current concerts call 321 -5554.
Legends in the Sky. Through March 22. 2 
pm, Monday through Wednesday; 2 pm, 5 pm, 
7 pm, Thursday and Friday; 11 am, 2 pm, 3 pm,
4 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Saturday; and 1:15 pm, 2 
pm, 4 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Sunday.
Sounds Sensational. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
The Right Moves. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Batter Up. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm -9:30 
pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 pm, 
Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Foucault Pendulum. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday Through Wednesday; 1 
pm - 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 
9:30 pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sun
day.
Evita. Playhouse Theatre Company. Tuesday 
through Saturday at 8 pm, Sunday at 2 pm and 
7 pm. Through April 10. Tickets $6-$14. For 
more information call 621-4445.
Classifieds
Jobs/Wanted ----~
THERES A JOB FOR YOU IN A 
SUMMER CAMP!
The American Camping Association (NY) 
will make your application available to over 
300 camps in the Northeast. Exciting oppor
tunities for college students and profession
als. Positions available: all land and water 
sports, arts & crafts, drama, music, dance, 
tripping, nature, R.N.s, M.D.s, Aides, 
kitchen, maintenance. College credit avail
able. Call or write for application. American 
Camping Association, 43 W. 23rd St., Dept 
(CM), New York, NY 10010, 1-800-777- 
CAMP.
ON-CAMPUS JOBS  Find out what 
opportunities you could be missing out on. 
Pick up a job directory in the Financial Aid 
Office on the 2nd floor of Warner Hall or 
look at the B-Board under Workstudy 
(non-workstudy positions also) on TOPS.
WANTED: STUDENTS: Earn extra 
money today, for the holidays and Spring 
Break 1988. No experience necessary, op
portunity to be your own boss, work your 
own hours, earn unlimited income, prizes 
and trips. Call today, Florida Sands Promo
tions (904) 257-2467
ARTS LOVERS  MUSEUM BUFFS
 THE CARNEGIE, Pittsburghs oldest 
and largest cultural complex, is searching 
for exceptionally superb communicators to 
secure contributions by phone. Permanent, 
part time. 22 and 1/2 hours per week, 5 days 
per week. Morning or evening shifts. Guar
anteed salary with bonus. Excellent training. Commitment to the arts a must! Call 
622-8840 form 9:30 am-noon only.
SUMMER JOBS  $8.10/hr or commis
sion. Advertising sales. No experience nec
essary. We will train. Work locally. Car 
recommended. Call Bill Davis at (800) 344- 
6766 fof details & application. Metro Mar
keting Group, Ltd.
Housing
LOVELY AND SPACIOUS TWO BED
ROOM APT. Featuring sun porch, 
equipped kitchen, air conditioning, carpet
ing, free parking and much more. Only 5 
minutes from campus, near Shadyside 
Hospital. Only $489 June or July availabil
ity. Short or long term lease available. Call 
today 682-7025.
HOUSE FOR SALE: Oakland, newer 2- 
story brick, 3 bedrooms, integral garage, 
quiet street, move-in condition, minutes 
form University. 681-6604.
TERRIFIC SUMMER HOUSING.
Lovely furnished rooms with private bath, 
maid and linen service, all utilities paid, 
parking and more. Weekly only $70. 
Monthly just $240. Call today 682-7025.
SUMMER SUBLET, AVAIL. 5/10/88 
8/20/88, Large beautiful 1 BR, Shadyside, 
15 minute walk to CMU, call for details, 
Danamichele 621 -1894.
SQUIRREL HILL, huge bright 2-3 BR 
apartments. Minutes from CMU. Secure, 
laundry. $595-725, available 9/1. 371- 
7017.
OPEN NEAR UNIVERSITY. Private en
trance and bath, first floor, unfurnished, utili
ties included. Also stove and refrigerator. 
Call 683-0150, 661-4838.
Services
RESEARCH PAPERS: 15,278 available! 
Catalog $2. Research, 11322 Idaho, 
#206XT, Los Angeles 90025. Toll free (800) 
351-0222, Ext. 33. Visa/MC or COD
MINUTEMAIDS: WE CUSTOMIZE 
OUR SERVICE TO YOUR HOUSE
KEEPING NEEDS. Serving Pittsburgh 8 
years, insured & bonded, 682-3860. Free 
estimates.
TYPING SERVICE  Reasonable prices. 
Call 741-4838.
ofoffobf Miscellaneous .......
PREGNANT? NEED HELP?  Confiden 
tial counseling  Free pregnancy test  262- 
1220, Airport Area Crisis Pregnancy Center.
BUFFALO WINGS SPECIAL EVERY 
THURSDAY EVENING, Sod Bar, Semple 
Street.
PREGNANT AND MAY NOT FEEL 
READY FOR PARENTING? YOU MAY 
WANT TO CONSIDER PERSONAL 
ADOPTION. We are a cookie-baking 
mommy and teddy-bear daddy hoping to 
give a child a warm and secure home. Well 
offer you a chance to meet and talk with us, 
medical expenses and housing. Most impor
tant, its ALL legal and confidential. Call 
anytime collect (412) 221-8622.
So, the other day when I was in the 
African tundra... Yeah, Yeah... It was 
the guys from MG 7-E. Were they cute? 
HECK NO!|!
-The Brazen Hussies
ElmoHappy P-19th. Its about time. We 
love ya. E-l 10 M&D.
PS: Thanx for the J.F.!!
Jim L.-
Who is that other girl from Graph
ics?
-WHITNEY 
PS: XXXOOO
ChaserNude photography is in!
-Flex
GusterImpressive 3-dimensional wad-ogum sculpture! Was that mixed media? 
-Dazer
To TNS/TSN? Im curious.
Gentlemen of DUCongratulations on a great job.
You rate a 1000 with me.
-Pat
EVA- I love you!
Only 50 days til Denver!
MarcGirls that look like that 2 go to CMU. 
-Girls that look like that
To the tired JuniorsLoved your prologue.. .encore, 
encore! How about a revised Get
tysburg Address?
-A fellow tired Junior
.. .And my name is Jay Beckenstein.
-J.B.
ChipmunkWe said we were the wildest the wildest 
things wed ever seen and we wont 
ever change the way we are because 
baby we were born ready!
-Straw
DazerOops! Social Faux-Pas. Waking up 
in a Couch Tomb. Bummer!
-Guster
BuckwheatThe man of GRAIN is LAME.
K.-
You know you are friends when 
you can fart on one another...
-Love, U NO WHO!!
L.Q.D.- Legion of Doom or Lovers on 
Demand. Women - you chuz!
big blond hairIt is the springtime of my loving... 
I still love you even if you cant be my 
Little Wing. (As long as we can still 
shoot pool, share strawberries, and 
write history papers)
Just dont blow coke in my face!
-duck down hair
CYN-BadI can think of a lot of uses for Jello 
between San Antonio and Pittsburgh. 
How about you!!
-Love and Whips, Sherrys next!!
DRPEither you take care of the baby or 
its Nashville, sweetheart!
Is Skippy afraid of dogs?
Yes - The pretty young lady at DTDs 
bar.
Dear F.-
Please leave two initials. Give me a 
better chance.
-Craigster
AlanWhy are you so concerned about 
sodomy laws?
Delts: One down and one to go!!
To the good looking guy in EPPKeep smiling, but a few words 
would be nice.
-Lunch-time Girl
Send submissions to: 
Vox Populi 
c/o The Tartan 
Skibo Information Desk
Please limit entries to 25 words 
or less and one per person.
/

---------------------------------------------------

March 22,1988The TartanPage Dll
Events
22 Tuesday
Movies
^The Whales of August, starring Lillian Gish, 
v3ette Davis, Ann Southern, Vincent Price and 
Harry Carey Jr. A lyrical film about coming to 
terms with life. Two sisters, who have spent 
60 summers on a Maine Island, come face to 
face with change and emotional dependency. 
r Fine acting ensemble. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Thy Kingdom Come, Thy Will Be Done. 
The disturbing link between Americas cur
rent Christian Fundamentalist revival and the 
masterminds of extreme right-wing politics is 
examined in this incisive documentary. Glar
ing light is shed on the PTL; Dallas, the 
buckle on the Bible Belt; and Jim and 
Tammys Heritage U.S.A. Fun Park. 
Filmmakers at the Fulton, 101 Sixth Street, 
Downtown. For more information call 471 - 
9700.

Lectures
Department of Chemical Engineering 
Seminar. Professor Arthur B. Metzner, Uni
versity of Delaware, speaks on Boundary 
Conditions in Fluid Mechanics (Slip Phenom
ena) at 11 am in DH 1112. Coffee and 
^pastries served at 10:45 in Conference Room
1102.
Special Events
World-Renowned Organist From Ger
many to Play at St. Pauls Cathedral. Guen
ther Kaunzinger, organist, plays on the great 
Beckerath Organ at 8:30 pm in St. Pauls
9 Cathedral, Oakland. The program is free to the 
public.
French Table. The Modem Languages De
partment sponsors a French Language table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall. 
Alpha Phi Omega, the National Service Fra
ternity, meets every week at 8 pm in Breed 
Hall, MM 103. All are welcome.
WRCT Schedule. Rock Garden, live per0formances taped or received by WRCT. 
Group: R.E.M. WRCTs frequency is 88.3 
FM.
Filmmakers at the Fulton, 101 Sixth Street, 
Downtown. For more information call 471 - 
9700.
Special Events
Explore your Jewish Heritage. Jewish Uni
versity Center, 160 N. Craig, at 7:30 pm. All 
you wanted to know about Judaism but were 
afraid to ask. No previous Judaic knowledge 
required. Kosher dinner available before class 
from 5:30 - 7:30 for $4.85.
Educational Action on Latin America 
group meeting. Skibo Rm. 112 at 7 pm. All are 
welcome. For more information call Peter at 
x7651.
Learn to Juggle! The Pittsburgh Juggling 
Club meets every Wednesday and Saturday at 
4:30 in Grey Matter. Everyone invited. 
Spanish Table. The Modem Language De
partment sponsors a Spanish Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall. 
WRCT Schedule. AB Coffeehouse and 
WRCT present: Negativeland. An unusual 
show that you will never forget at 8 pm in the 
Skibo Ballroom. Admission $5. Free with a 
CMU student ID.
Movies
The Whales of August, starring Lillian Gish, 
Bette Davis, Ann Southern, Vincent Price and 
Harry Carey Jr. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Thy Kingdom Come, Thy Will Be Done.
German Table. The Modem Language 
Department sponsors a German Language 
table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall. 
WRCT Schedule. Sportsline, WRCT cam
pus sports talk show at 8:30 pm. WRCTs 
frequency is 88.3 FM.
Movies
The Whales of August, starring Lillian Gish, 
Bette Davis, Ann Southern, Vincent Price and 
Harry Carey Jr. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Thy Kingdom Come, Thy Will Be Done. 
Filmmakers at the Fulton, 101 Sixth Street, 
Downtown. For more information call 471 - 
9700.
Paris, Texas, sponsored by AB Films. DH 
2210 at 6 pm, 8:30 pm and 11 pm. Admission 
$1.
Lectures
Department of Electrical And Computer 
Engineering Graduate Seminar. Dr. Pat
Gelsinger, Intel, speaks at 3:30 pm in Scaife 
Auditorium. Refreshments are served at 3:15 
pm.
National Lawyers Guild and University of 
Pittsburgh School of Law. David Kairys 
speaks on Freedom of Speech in Historical 
Perspective at 7:30 pm in the Teplitz Memo
rial Courtroom, University of Pittsburgh 
School of Law, 3900 Forbes Ave. For more 
information call 648-1400.
Special Events
The Theolog is In. From 11 am to 3 pm in 
Grey Matter, members of CMs Campus 
Ministry Council are available for conversa
tion on matters of theology, ethics or any
thing else you've always wanted to know 
about religion but were afraid to ask. Please 
stop by.
Movies
The Whales of August, starring Lillian Gish, 
Bette Davis, Ann Southern, Vincent Price and 
Harry Carey Jr. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Sammy and Rosie Get Laid. Offbeat social 
satire, set against the urban decay and violence 
of contemporary London. Love, death and 
politics are all exposed in a script that never 
stops to catch its breath. Filmmakers at the 
Fulton, 101 Sixth Street, Downtown. For 
more information call 471-9700.
Full Metal Jacket, sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210at6pm, 8 pm, 9pm, 10pm, 11 pm and 
midnight. Admission $1.
Special Events
Shabbat dinner. Come and enjoy Friday 
night dinner with the crowd at JUC. Reserva
tions are required by preceding Wednesday. 
Jewish University Center, 160 N. Craig Street, 
at 5:30 pm. Price for dinner is $4.25 for 
members and $5.25 for non-members. Call 
621-8875 for details.
Movies
The Whales of August, starring Lillian Gish, 
Bette Davis, Ann Southern, Vincent Price and 
Harry Carey Jr. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Sammy and Rosie Get Laid. Filmmakers at 
the Fulton, 101 Sixth Street, Downtown. For 
more information call 471 -9700.
The Road Warrior, sponsored by SDC 
Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and 
midnight. Admission $1.
Special Events
Learn to Juggle! The Pittsburgh Juggling 
Club meets every Wednesday and Saturday at 
4:30 in Grey Matter. Everyone invited.
Harry Carey Jr. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Sammy and Rosie Get Laid. Filmmakers at 
the Fulton, 101 Sixth Street, Downtown. For 
more information call 471-9700.
King Kong, sponsored by AB Films. DH at 6 
pm, 8 pm and 10pm. Admission $1.
Music
Jewish Community Center. Soprano Lucy 
Shelton Sings at the Y at 8 pm in the Morris 
Kaufmann Auditorium, 315 S. Bellefield 
Ave., Oakland. For tickets call 521-8010.
28 Monday
Movies
The Whales of August, starring Lillian Gish, 
Bette Davis, Ann Southern, Vincent Price and 
Harry Carey Jr. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Sammy and Rosie Get Laid. Filmmakers at 
the Fulton, 101 Sixth Street, Downtown. For 
more information call 471-9700.
Special Events
Japanese Table. The Modem Language 
Department sponsors a Japanese Language 
Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining 
hall.
If you wish to submit an announcement, 
miscellaneous item, or event to The Tartan, 
send it to Campus Calendar / University 
Relations / Carnegie Mellon University / 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania / 15213. Send it by 
campus mail to the above addressor drop it 
off at 5017 Forbes Ave. (The house between 
DU and ATO.)
Please submit the following information 
when sending in events: Title of event, its 
sponsor, a brief description of the event, and 
its locations, date and time. In addition, 
include the name and phone number of the 
person submitting the entry; this information 
will be used only to confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the 
accuracy or validity of any events listed. In 
addition. The Tartan reserves the right to 
edit or omit any listing for publication.
Deadline for Calendar submissions is 
Wednesday at 5 pm for the next weeks 
issue.
Movies
The Whales of August, starring Lillian Gish, 
Bette Davis, Ann Southern, Vincent Price and
BBenedum 
Center
2&
stevooAT ouR. Af>AiL coMPvreft. mVTi c
it//\^y/Vni V t i//a Jfrxvi AX&ty Vii ty/, XIV. Un/B -irff BV l/V f//\\// 1/ I

---------------------------------------------------

HERES A GREAT DEAL!
521-2970
623 Greenfield Ave
Right now, Dominos PizzaT 
is dealing you big savings. 
Just call and get two regular 
cheese pizzas for $8.88 
Pay a little more for the 
toppings of your choice on 
each pizza, and you can 
make a great deal even 
better.
I
</>
oz<
[I
X N o N ; Q &
681-1700
315 N. Craig St.

NO COUPON REQUIRED
12"
Double Offer (16 slice)
PLAIN$ 8.88
ADDITIONAL ITEMS$ 1.29
1-ITEM PIZZA$10.17
2-ITEM PIZZA$11.46
3-ITEM PIZZA$12.75
4-ITEM PIZZA$14.04
5-ITEM PIZZA$15.33
Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Limited 
delivery area. Our Drivers carry less than $20.00. 1987 
Dominos Pizza, Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

The chief use to which we put our love of the truth 
is in persuading ourselves that what we love is true.
-Pierre Nicole, Essais de morale, 1671

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

dossier
L I T E R A T UR  | DESIGN
CONTENTS
Fire Lake Dreams by Marshall Klimasewiski 
Designed by Jenifer Paniaqua
Missing the Wars by Brett Molotsky 
Designed by Hugo Cheng
On the Subway by Elsbeth Gorman
Designed by Harold Flambrose
, . A}}drew StowellBanshee h\
Designed by Sue Tribone
Opportunity cost by Nusrat Ali 
Designed by Mona Kim
Insane Orphans
Designed by Sandy Greene
Newton by Edie Locke
Designed by Jamie Apel
Memory Purge off Huy 101 by John Zimmerman 
Designed by Diane Jalbert
SUBMISSIONS
Dossier welcomes submissions from any student 
enrolled at Carnegie Mellon. All manuscripts must be 
typed or on a macintosh disk. Please include your 
name, address, and phone number. Due to plagiarism 
laws, anonymous literature or literature under 
pseudonyms cannot be accepted.
Submissions may be sent through campus mail to 
Dossier, c/o The Tartan, 103 Skiho, or dropped off at 
the Tartan office. Skiho room 50.
CREDITS
Literary Editor Michele Osherow
*Design Editors Rick Simner Maria Carluccio 
Typesetting Brian Harrison ^

---------------------------------------------------

Fire Lake Dreams
Of the perfect dive 
into slick glassy teal, 
soft as honey
Of cutting razor 
clean, drilling arrow 
straight, picking pearls
from open oysters, 
turning like foam 
on a crested wave
surfacing smooth as summer, 
clean as cream, 
like the clear blue 
bum of mans desire.
Marshall N. Klimasewiski

---------------------------------------------------

Missing 
the 
Wars
il9h ,YrS lp 18Y(1Ea l,a h,annhd 
t,Yl l,aI hpeESaS n10a 
t1l,pel ,aYr1E( l,a8d ,pt lp 0Ept
t,aE lp Se)0o
iE 1)lerah S1rl )npeSh 
)pAar l,a lYE0ho TY(YC1Ea 
,plphd 8phld le)0aS YtYI 
uI Y Ea1(,upr t,aE hleFF
n10a l,Yl tYh nahh FYh,1pEYunao 
PAarIpEa ra8a8uarh Eptd l,a 188aS1Y)I 
pF F1raF1(,ld n1Fa 1E 8alYn 
YES h,panY)a hlrYhd 0Ept1E( Faal
Yra rpll1E( 1E eE),YE(aYuna upplho 
U,ara tYh Rapr(a No L)plld n1A1E( 
8Il,d 8aSYnh YES h,ann )Yh1E(h 
upnlaS lp ,1h eE1Fpr8d r1Aalh
pF 8a8prIG YES TYrl1E L,aaE 
),at1E( uY8upp eESar l,a :p 
HeE( fr1S(ad ue1nS1E( 1l E1(,lnI 
YES hlYrA1E( Fpr 8Y1nd
pr MnYE MnSY Speul1E( RpS 
1E Y FpW,pna EaYr l,a KOl, 
YrYnnano U,aI ,YAa lp 0Ept 
l,a Y1rd l,a h)raa), pF A1pnYl1pE
l,Yl 1h Y h8p0a lrY1nd ,pt 
l,a TVB6 Faanh YFlar a8lI1E( Y )n1d 
t,aE l,a hlYna h8ann pF ,aYl 
uerEh l,a Ephao il9h ,YrS
lp 18Y(1Ea 1npl1E( l,a Up8)Yl 
l,rpe(, raS hlraY0h 1E l,a H1uIYE 
E1(,l t,aE l,a hlYl1pE tY(pE9h 8eFFnar 
hpeESh n10a Y K288 YEl1
Y1r)rYFl (eE YES N,Yrn1a L,aaE 
F1(,lh l,a hY8a tYr ,1h 
FYl,ar S1Sd h8Ynn pr u1( 
pE UV9h e YES SptE
l,a hlraalo il9h ,YrS Fpr l,a FYl,arh 
YES l,a hpEh t,p S1SE9l 
lYn0 lp l,a1r (eEhd pr hqeYl tal 
YES l1raS pE Y8ueh, aAarI Fperl, 
E1(,ld tY1l1E( Fpr Y lt1( hEYd 
Y t,1hard lp 1)0 l,a naa), 
Frp8 l,a1r FY)ahd hqeaaCa 8eS 
Frp8 hp)0hd np)0 YES npYSo
frall Tpnplh0I

---------------------------------------------------

On the Subway
The man sitting across from Harry and me on the subway is very handsome, polished, successful.Hes wearing a three piece suit and his broad hands with manicured nails rest on his leather case.We look at him and he smiles.We smile and look away.Until we hear the sound of shattering glass.And that beautiful man with broad hands has clenched his fist and put it through a window.
Elsbeth Gorman

---------------------------------------------------

BANSHEE
Brandon almost had an accident pulling into the Malis parking lot. 
They had changed the entrance since hed last been there five years ago, 
making the old entrance a one-way exit. Fortunatly, the Mall traffic on 
Sunday morning is very light, so the other car did not have any traffic 
behind it, although the driver was still pretty pissed.
Brandon had not wanted to come to the Mall. He wanted to stay at 
the house and help his mother, but she insisted he get out, and Molly didnt 
want to get stuck going somewhere unfamiliar with all four kids.
The air had a humid, stick-to-your-back July feel in the parking lot, 
but inside the Kaufmanns it was smooth climate control heaven. Molly 
took a second to wipe the babys forehead, while the twins dropped the 
coats grandma had forced them to wear. Brandon picked them up rather 
than argue with the kids.
Where do you want to go, Brandon asked?
Does it matter, Molly said.
So they walked. They passed through Kaufmanns and out into the 
main courtyard. They had a train set up around the fountain. There was 
always a train or racetrack or something up around the fountain. The Mall 
made a killing on the revolving day care they offered to shoppers.
The twins wanted to go on. Molly just wanted to sit. The baby was 
a hefty twenty pounder, and he slept like a rock. Brandon held the eldests 
hand, Sandy, the little quiet girl who erupted into a banshee without her 
medication. Shed ride.
Molly sat on the shiny black bench as Brandon took the three older 
children over to the entrance gate. A girl in a white and pink stripped dress 
took his children and put them on the train.
He gave her a twenty and told her to let them ride awhile.
Brandon sat on the bench next to Molly. She was supporting the 
baby on her left shoulder. The baby was teething, and you could some
times hear him whimper ever so softly in his sleep. Molly rubbed his back, 
more for her own comfort than his.
Do you want me to hold him? Brandon asked?
No, you do it wrong. Hell wake up and start crying again, Molly
said.
You could just rest him on your lap, he said.
Im fine, really, she said. The baby had soaked her T-shirt, a white 
and yello Florida Vacation resort shirt, making her left breast stick out 
prominetly. She held the baby over it.
Im going to walk down to the food court and get some ice tea. Ill 
bring Cokes for the kids. Do you want anything? Brandon asked her.
See if they have any Orange juice. The baby could have some of 
that, she said, watching the train go around and around in circles.
Brandon left. The food court was in the middle of the mall, and he 
wasnt in any rush to get there or to get back. It was good to be in the cool 
air, walking past the shops with their big display windows, always featuring 
some new post-holiday sale. Brandon had walked these corridors a 
hundred thousand times when he was a teen, but had never bothered to go 
into any of these stores. He used to cruise up and down endlessly, 
watching the girls, hanging out with his buddies, playing a boom box to 
drown out the musak.
There were very few shoppers in the food court, but the signs of a 
Saturday night were everywhere. Saturday nights all the kids from the 
suburbs would descend on the food court, making it there twentieth 
century battle ground. Different packs of ten or twenty boys, clad in denim
and leather, would take up different spots around the food court, egging on 
the rival gangs.
Fights were always held in the south parking lot, away from where the security 
guards would give a damn about stopping them.
There were cardboard cups and plates overflowing all of the trash cans. 
Sticky, syrupy stains were scattered on the floor. Occasional ketchup or 
cheesesauce adorned the edges of the tables. Most were engraved with 
graffitti, designating what gangs turf had been desecrated by fast food 
condiments. Body counts were never itemized.
None of the food shops were open. There were workers in a lot of 
them, but they were all scrubbing down equipment and washing utensils. 
Brandon tried to appeal to a couple of places, but they all told him to come 
back in a half-hour. He was about to go out and across the parking lot to the 
Burger King when someone called for him.
Yo, Stiv-man, dig on this, dude!
Brandon turned, recognizing the voice immediatly. It was an old friend, 
John Babcock, who he hadnt seen since he went off to...
Dexter, you schmuck, why didja havta be such an arse-hole, the Stiv 
man said.
Brandon was startled to hear his own voice, especially since he hadnt 
had time to say anything. Something was wrong.
Brandon looked across the food court, and for a few minutes he didnt 
fully comprehend, exactly what he saw. He was sitting at his table, in the back 
corner near the taco bell, with all of
the Hellblazers. It was Brandon, but it wasnt. It was Brandon at seventeen, 
back when he was
El Jaffe of the Blazers, the hardest-assed muthers of Penn Hills. Stiv-man, 
as Brandon was called by the gang, was the epitomie of every Irish 
grandmothers nightmare. Stringy, oily hair down over his shoulders. A beard 
growing in clumps on his chin and neck. A face pitted with acne. And an 
unwashed smell of death, usually eminating from a well worn pair of Levis and 
worn out Van halen T-shirt with gaping holes in the armpits.
As far as Brandon could tell, the Blazers were blowing off steam before 
another showdown with the Outlaws or the Sex Warlords, the two big rivals 
from Monroeville. Stiv-man would get the boys all hyped up before the 
rumble, then pull back to direct the action and avoid any personal injury. Stivman packed a stolen .22 in the left-tit pocket of his jacket in case the dancing 
got too hot.
Hey, dudes, whatdefucks dat old dude at the candy stand looking at, 
Robbie yo-bust pointed out to the Hellblazers.
Brandon had been staring at himself so intently that he had allowed 
himself to be discovered.
He regretted this immediatly. Not only had he decided against confronting 
himself, he knew he would be in physical danger if he provoked them.
Stiv-mans sarges, Blunt and Rover, were sent over to nab cokes for 
the boys and lean on the old fart. They walked with a decided strut that Stivman had always used, moving to silent music while drilling there eyes into 
Brandons soul.
Yo, the old dude, you can lend me five bucks to peck out? Blunt 
challenged him.
Yeah, man, how bout helpin some old home boys, Rover said, ever 
neurotic about looking cool.
Brandon froze. He did not remember what to say. If he took out his 
wallet, theyd take everything, including the drivers licence [for fake over aged

---------------------------------------------------

c
t
licences could be sold for upwards of forty-five bucks to thirsty homeboys]. If 
he tried to call security, theyd laugh at him and drag him into the bathrooms 
for the quick shave. Brandon needed something to throw them off guard.
I need words with El Jaffe, he said in the best tough-shit voice he 
could muster.
Say what, dude, Blunt said, hungry for some easy meat.
El Jaffe. I need business with the Stiv man, Brandon said, staring 
right into Rover. Brandon knew he could intimidate Rover, while Blunt would 
be a stone wall.
Yo, the Rover, go tell the boss the man needs buisness with him,
Blunt said.
Brandon had hoped that Blunt would go himself, leaving him with 
Rover, who he could work over a bit, emphasising the kids insecurities. Blunt 
stood, tough shit to the max, waiting for Brandon to make a move. Brandon 
tough-shit him back.
Blunt, my friend, dont keep our guest waiting. Bring the man over, 
Stiv-man called across the food court.
Blunt lead Brandon over to Hellblazer turf. The other dudes checked 
him out. Brandon regretted not wearing jeans and a t-shirt, hoping they 
wouldnt kill him just for wearing a fifty dollar Polo sportshirt.
Wheres my pop? Stiv-man said, much to the chagrin of the dudes.
El Jaffe, this man says he needs buisness with yins, Rover an
nounced, his confidence back.
Stiv-man looked at Brandon. Brandon had hoped, prayed, that there 
might be some recognition, but there wasnt. Brandon saw himself, but Stivman saw only another old fart, waiting for death.
Well, kind sir, how might I and my band of merry murderers be of 
assistance today? Stiv-man asked.
Brandon looked at him, watched the way he was being mocked, and 
tried to rekindel the fires in him that had provoked him to be such a monster.
You think you tough dude, Brandon said, a little too awkwardly.
Sure thing, big dude. Stiv-man toughest of all bunch. Kill many ugly 
mothers! Stiv-man said in the comical, neanderthal voice that Brandon had 
unconciously used.
Cut the shit, buttholes,  Brandon said, shutting up the Hellblazers a 
little too soon.
Playing with fire, dude,  Rover said, under his breath.
Brandon looked directly at Stiv-man, challenging himself directly.
Why the Hell are you hanging out with these dead brains when your old 
mans up on the roof. Why aint you helping him? Brandon said, his cheeks 
flushing red.
What are you talking about? Stiv man said.
Your dad. Hes up on that roof. You should be up there helping him! 
Brandon demanded.
My dad isnt on the roof. He fell off the roof last year. Hes laid up in 
the nursing home with a bad back. My old lady hired someone to finish the 
roof, Stiv-man said, a little too slow.
Shit. Brandon forgot that he hadnt joined the Hellblazers until after his 
father had broken his back. It was such a long time ago, and all the details 
from a painful childhood get mixed up so...
Yo, Jeffe, whats the deal. We gonna ace this suck? Blunt was getting 
impatient.
No, hold up, man, I want to know how this old fart knows about my 
dad, Stiv-man said.
Brandon froze. He had a horrifyling vision of Molly walking into the food 
court with the kids any minute now. Hed been gone too long.
ANSWER ME, ASSHOLE! the Stiv-man demanded.
Brandon looked defiant. Pathetically defiant.
The Stiv-man dropped into his chair, the gun in his jacket banging on 
the table. The Hellblazers all stood up. Stiv-man knocked the gun three more 
times against the table. War drums. Stiv-man was top shit, he held the loaded 
heat.
I dont know why you came here dude. I dont know what your 
buisness is, but your pissing the fuck out of me. You think you can fuck with 
me? Fuck with my old man. He broke his fucking back and you wanna mess 
him over again?  Stiv-man said. Horrified, Brandon realized that Stiv-man had 
recognized him.
Why dont you do something with... Brandon started.
Dont tell me what to do! Dont you tell me! Stiv-man jumped up, and 
everybody jumped back.
Look, I...
I dont want to hear it, dude! You left, not me. I was there, I carried 
his casket to the graveyard, I stayed with mom all those nights, all that time 
she got juiced up just to get to sleep.
I didnt marry no bitch and head off for New York, dude! Brandon could see 
the handel on his .22 poking out of his jacket.
Im leaving,  Brandon said, straining for machismo.
You left once, dude. I aint letting you get away." Stiv-man said.
Brandon backed his way out of the food court slowly, never diverting 
his eyes from Stiv-mans. Brandon waited for the Hellblazers to make there 
move, but Stiv-man held them defiantly in place. As Brandon got to the 
entrance, he turned his back to them, and waited for an attack. None came.
Brandon didnt want to run, but walked much to quickly back to the 
courtyard. He noticed that most of the Mall was empty, and a lot of the stores 
were closed down, there big windows papered over. In the distance, he saw 
the train had stopped runing.
As Brandon walked into the courtyard, he saw that his daughter, Sandy, 
was sitting by herself on the bench, swinging her feet and kicking the guardrail 
of the train ride. She looked up when he stood beside.her,
Mommys gone.
Brandon stood at the door to the parking lot, squeezing his daughters 
hand much to tightly.
The Hellblazers were sitting on the roof of his car, on the hood, in the trunk.
The twins were playing catch with Blunts switchblade, while three of the 
dudes egged them on to push the button. Stiv-man leaned against the 
drivers door, holding the baby in his left arm, his right one around Molly, who 
was wearing the Stiv-mans jacket.
Hey dude, the Stiv-man yelled to him, come on out. Im gonna fuck 
your girlfirend!
Andrew C. Stowell
%

---------------------------------------------------

Opportunity Cost
*
Nirvana: a state of mind where time and money become unimportant.
They always tell me
About costs
About gains and loss
And in dollar terms
The value of opportunity
The time lost
Is gone forever.
But what do I know
about such assets and liabilities:
I am not a cost accountant.
I am a man of the orient;
A simple guy.
For me, the hours 
Come and go 
And time is not money, 
But shared moments 
Change into eternity 
And I don t know 
How the cost-calculators 
Put value on feeling.
A man of the orient;
A simple guy
Seeking Nirvana
In the land of opportunity.
Nusrat Ali

---------------------------------------------------

Sydney dreams shes white 
and that shes about to be taken 
by a nice Jewish couple 
from Long Island. Shell 
live on sand dunes and play 
in warm water. Ben 
talks about Turkeyland, 
where everything is turkey 
but the sky, 
which is blue.
A blue sky and poultry.
All Charlie wants 
is a tall woman who 
will hit him
softly when things break
down. A woman who will
smother him
with kisses from her
pocketbook. Who
will give him everything
that he deserves.
Garrett Yankou

---------------------------------------------------

Edie Locke
Until I was ten, we lived 
in a house with an apple 
tree in the back yard 
which grew small, hard 
green apples and dropped them, 
unripened, from its branches.
I could hear them fall to the ground 
through the open window of my mothers 
dressing room as I played in the walk-in 
closet there, at some pretend game 
in the quiet closet dimness with 
the slant of afternoon light falling through 
the slats in the door and outside 
the apples f
ell now 
and then,
with a soft solid sound, 
their presence pervasive 
backed by the summer afternoon bark 
of a dog.
I wonder now at the gravity of it all, how everything must be drawn down to earth, those small green balls never able to stop,
mid-fall, and float away> fcoward
blue.
Later I would have to take 
the steel pan and collect the fruit, 
like tiny wormy problems, before 
they grew soft and slick, Before 
the slim wasps came to lick the 
sweet juice from their spotted skins 
and the air in the yard 
grew fat and funky with the smell 
of rotting meat.
How much today ? my mother 
would ask vaguely, leaning into 
the refrigerator, as I came through 
the screen door, into the kitchen. 
And as she put a streaming 
glass of lemonade in front 
of me, I would say 
five or two or seven, or however 
many panfuls I had collected,
I thought of the many small 
individual fruit, outside in the steel 
cans, crawling with brown 
ants, safely caught.

---------------------------------------------------

Memory Purge off Hwy 101
t

(
!
John Zimmerman
Blending into the February drizzle Sara forges a path around rotting kelp and broken sand dollars. Pictures thought ripped from memory return
in a movie, but they are only random maps of spilled coffee on white carpet.The chronic ocean slap against granite monoliths cross-fades into imagined
conversations. Each one projects threads of perfect futures from past encounters with him. She shakes to forget; her shoulders and hair violently jerk throwing off water but remain
wet. The horizon blurs, fog and angry water spotted by the playing sealions dark heads.

---------------------------------------------------

(fan tas tik)- adj. 1 .imaginary; unreal 2.grotesque; odd 3.extravagant
