Officials fail to explain Food Service deficit
by Susan Borg and Saul Carliner
This is a smoke-filled room without 
the smoke, commented Assistant Dean 
of Student Affairs Lois Cox, referring to an 
emergency meeting, held last Wednesday 
night, of the heads of various campus orga
nizations on recent Food Service actions.
The abrupt closing of the Bakery-Deli 
and Dinners Unlimited, two of the satel
lite Food Service operations in Morewood 
Gardens, without advance warning or con
sultation with students sparked several 
similar meetings last week. %
Last Tuesday, members of the campus 
media questioned Oscar Mayer, Director
of Auxiliary Services, Yvonne McCredie, 
Student Liaison for Auxiliary Services, 
and John Eichmuller, Director of Food 
Service.
Mayer said that students were not con
sulted because Food Service losses indi
cated a crisis situation, requiring immediate 
action at a time when students were not 
available. The First financial standings on 
Food Service became available at the end 
of Finals week, and measures to consolidate 
operations and minimize annual losses, 
had to be made before students returned 
for the new semester.
Mayer added that he only had figures
for Five months ending November 30, 
showing that Food Service was spending 
$11 for every $10 it brought in.
Vhen students asked to see this data, 
Mayer refused, saying he first wanted to 
see figures for December which were not 
yet available. The following day, in a 
meeting with Vice President for Manage
ment Richard Van Horn, these figures 
were made available to students.
This information, however, did not 
furnish concrete evidence to support the 
decision to close the Bakery/Deli. The re
port listed direct costs versus income With 
the difference reflecting the contribution
of each operation to total overhead costs 
of the entire food service operation (see 
Figure). The expected contribution of each 
individual operation to overhead costs, 
however, was not included in the report. 
This omission makes it impossible to deter
mine from the report which operation was 
contributing its expected share of the over
head .
The TARTAN called Mayer at his home 
Sunday afternoon, and he stated that he 
believes overhead costs are allocated to 
each operation by multiplying the ratio of 
an individual operations income to total
continued on page 6.
January 15,1980 
Volume 80, Number 13rARi
n A IV TI I Carnegie Mellon University 
I Pittsburgh, PA 15213
JL..A. AX 1
'Crisis' situation causes Food Service change
The doors of the Morewood Gardens Pot-Pourri are now locked until 6:00 PM each day, and all
During the fall semester, Food Ser
vice operated at a substantial loss, began a 
memo from Oscar Mayer, Director of Aux
iliary Services. The memo, distributed dur
ing last weeks registration, outlined 
several changes in Food Service operations.
The greatest change occured with the 
Food Service operation in Morewood Gar
dens where the Bakery/Deli and Dinners 
Unlimited have been closed, and the Deli 
Annex and More-Pizza have extended 
their hours to 6 PM through midnight, 
Sunday through Thursday.
Mayer, Yvonne McCredie, Student Liai
son for Auxiliary Services andJ ohn Eichmuller, Director of Food Service, met with 
representatives of the campus media last 
Tuesday.
Mayer stated that Food Service was 
spending $11 for every $10 it takes in. 
In order to improve economic perforby Doug Kirsop
At the Student Dorm Councils request, 
the 192 students living in the Margaret 
Morrison Complex have been reimbursed 
for the time that they did not have desks 
or bookshelves at the beginning of last 
semester.
Twenty dollars was the amount decided 
upon by the SDC Executive Board and 
the Margaret Morrison Special Committee. 
This figure was arrived at by subtracting 
the cost of the tables provided by the 
University (approximately $5) from the 
cost of renting a desk equivalent to the 
one that was to have been provided (ap
proximately $25).
The original request for reimbursement 
was made in the middle of last semester. 
Although Oscar Mayer, Director of Auxilimance,, Vice President for Management 
Richard Van Horn instructed Mayer and 
Eichmuller to reduce operations.
On the basis of operating performance 
figures through November 30,1979, Mayer 
instructed Eichmuller to close down the 
entire Morewood operation. Eichmuller 
pointed out, however, that the Deli Annex 
and More-Pizza were financially healthy 
operations, and therefore should remain 
open.
Mayer explained that as soon as he re
ceived the five month financial report, 
serious problems of a crisis nature be
came evident. He said he felt that immedi
ate action was necessary in order to correct 
the almost $100,000 deficit accumulated 
over the preceding five months. Van Horn 
agreed and the decision to close the Bak
ery/Deli and Dinners Unlimited was made 
Thursday .January 3.
ary Services, and Gerald Dalton, Director 
of Housing agreed at that time to pay 
whatever amount SDC recommended, the 
source of money was not acceptable to the 
students. Mayer and Richard Van Horn, 
Vice-president for Management, explained 
that there was no place for the money to 
come from except the Housing budget. 
This meant that money would be taken 
from other repairs or improvements in 
the Housing system.
After a discussion between SDC, admin
istration representatives, a lawyer, and a 
contractor, another source of money was 
discovered. Because the contractor who 
supplied the desks had not completed all 
work specified in the contract it had with 
the University, $5,000 had been retained
day Friday and Saturday.
Over the five month period, total over
head costs amounted to approximately 
$122,000. After salaries and direct food 
costs, the Bakery/Deli contributed $388 
to overhead expenses while Dinners Unlim
ited lost $33,388 and, hence, contributed 
nothing to overhead.
The total overhead contribution for the 
ten separate Food Service operations was
by Ken Kulak
The TARTAN has learned that the Stu
dent Senate Rules Committee will re
introduce their proposal for the ten dollar 
Activities Fee increase in the meeting of 
the full Senate tonight. If a majority of 
the Senate voles to reconsider this issue, 
the recommendation of a $20 increase in 
the current $30 Activities Fee approved by 
Senate last semester will be invalidated and 
the subject will once again be open for de
bate.
The confusion over the question of how 
much (if any) increase in the Activities Fee 
should be recommended to the Board of 
Trustees stems from the December 5th 
Senate referendum. Of the 1044 students 
who voted, 36% favored a $20 increase 
while 30% wanted the fee to remain at 
its existing level.
The Rules Committee initially re
sponded to the referendum results by advo
cating a $10 increase in the fee (the average 
of the total voter response), an amount 
subsequently raised to $15, which is the 
average increase favored by the students 
who voted for raising the fee. Op Decem
ber 11th, the full Senate hiked the increase 
to $20 and drew up a resolution which
$22,072. This amount, subtracted from 
total overhead figure is the deficit for the 
period, approximately $100,000.
Mayer further xplained the closing by 
saying ...we didnt do as good a job of 
marketing as we could have. He added, 
1 absolutely intend it to be a short-run 
decision. Food Service has also cut 
employee hours by almost 2Sfo.
would be presented to the Trustees at 
their January meeting
The most vocal reaction to the $20 
proposal was by graduate students in 
GSIA. A petition has been circulated 
among GSIA students calling for the for
mation of a GSIA Graduate Student Asso
ciation which would operate under the 
guidance of the Student Senate. This 
organization would receive the $20 in
crease paid by each GSIA student and 
administer the money in such a way to 
address the unique wants and needs 
of GSIA students.
Ralph Sherman, Chairperson of the 
Senate Rules Committee, states that he 
supports the GSIA petition and will 
recommend it along with the motion to 
reconsider the $10 increase.
Sherman feels that most students would 
be happier with a $10 increase instead of a 
$15 or $20 amount. He expressed a hope 
that senators have spoken with their con
stituents since the December 11th meeting, 
and have come to similar conclusions.
Major student organizations such as AB, 
WRCT, the TARTAN, and others report 
that no senator has contacted any of them 
continued on page 6.
continued on page 5.
"Steeler Mania" is evident from the time you enter Pittsburgh. See Features for more on *Steeler 
Mania."
MM residents reimbursed
Activities Fee increase debated

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
Hard to swallow
First there was the elimination of the Music Education 
Option for music majors. No discussion. No student input.
Then, the administration told the members of Alpha Phi 
Omega that Food Service would take over their food con
cession stand in the stadium. No discussion. No student 
input.
Now, the administration has dosed the popular Bakery/ 
Deli in Morewood Gardens. Once again, no discussion, no 
student input.
The lack of communication before these decisions are 
made is inexcusable. Students are a central element of the 
campus population, and are entitled to sit in on decisions 
affecting the community in which they live. In fact, stud
ents are what makes this campus go. Without the students, 
there would be no university.
Furthermore, the administration has bypassed its own 
channels of communication with students: The Student 
Advisory Committees, student appointments to standing 
university committees, and open office hours with univer
sity officials. Are these merely window-dressing devices?
Over the next few weeks, the students of this univer
sity intend to use every one of these channels to get to 
the root of the Food Service problem, and show the ad
ministration that it simply cannot ignore students in the 
decision-making process.
There are simply too many unanswered questions:
-What is the true Food Service loss? The figures released 
to the TARTAN show a $99,527 loss. Oscar Mayer, Direc
tor of Auxiliary Services, says that a $35,000 contribution 
to capital improvements, obviously not realized, is omitted 
from that figure. And Vice President for Management 
Richard Van Horn put the loss at $160,000.
-Is Food Service paying too much in labor costs? 95% of 
the Dinners Unlimited revenue and 53% of the Kiltie Cafe 
revenue went to labor expense.
-Does Food Service know how to project its budget? 
Food Service claims that the Bakery/Deli failed because of 
the high percentage (78%) of Vali-Dine patrons, who receive 
a 15% discount on the purchase price. Why didnt Food 
Service adjust its prices to reflect this problem as soon as it 
became apparent? Wasnt Vali-Dine instituted so that Food 
Service could easily adjust its prices?
-Why is there one overhead expenditure for all of Food 
Service, when each operating unit is considered a separate 
entity? If each operating unit is a separate entity, why does 
an operation like Catering, which showed a loss, remain 
open? Maybe student-oriented operations, like the Tartan 
Grill and Salads Plus, which contribute substantially to over
head costs, are subsidizing this nonessential operation used 
primarily by the faculty and the administration.
-How could Food Service lose $100,000 (or whatever the 
figure is) without knowing this amount until the end of 
December when it totals its receipts each working day?
Closing the Bakery-Deli and Dinners Unlimited will not 
solve the mismanagement problem in Food Service, and 
avoiding discussion of the topic with students will only ag
gravate it.
Clearly, there are several issues here. The Bakery/Deli was 
dosed unjustly and should be reopened immediately. We 
want Food Service to start managing its operations in a res
ponsible manner, but we are more interested in seeing that 
the administration lives up to the ideals of an open univer
sity.
... Wanna bet?
The TARTAN made a Super Bowl bet with the 
California Tech, the student newspaper at the California 
Institute of Technology in Pasadena, California. Naturally, 
we picked the Steelers to be victorious in the game.
If the Steelers win the game, the editorial board of the 
California Tech has agreed to print an ad in their paper 
saying *'Congratulation Pittsburgh Steelers! The TARTAN 
will print the ad as soon as we receive that issue of the 
California Tech.
(We should mention that if the Steelers, by some freak 
accident like a flash flood or an earthquake, manage to 
lose the Super Bowl, we will have to print an ad congratulat
ing the Rams. But we re not worried.)
The TARTAN wants to find out what you think. Pleasei
! fill out the following survey and return it to the TARTAN 
i Main Office, Skibo 50, or mail it to Box 17 Campus Mail. i
. Yes, / would patronize the Morewood Bakery Deli if 
it were reopened.
_No, / would not patronize the Morewood Bakery/ 
Deli if it were reopened.
i --- ii i i_______________________________________ ii i   ii i................................................................................ iThe TARTAN will present the results of this survey to \
the Director of Auxiliary Services, the Director of Food !
Services, and the Vice-President for Management. '
! COMMENTS:IIII ______________IIII --------------------------------III ..........................
letters
The root of all a/il
Editor:
Efficiency and productivity 
are not okay words on college 
campuses. John Hennessey, Jr. 
from Tuck School of Business, 
Dartmouth University once said. 
On the other hand, apparent gross 
mismanagement is also not okay 
on the college campus. More 
simply, shouldnt the university 
be maximizing student benefit,' 
while minimizing costs? After 
discussing the Food Service fiasco 
with University officials, it is 
apparent that CMU is not aware 
of this tenet of good University 
management.
The response of the University 
to the $100,000 Food Service def
icit was to arbitrarily cut opera
tions in an effort to cut expenses. 
However, discussions with various 
University officials and student 
leaders yielded no satisfactory 
explanations concerning the cause 
of the deficit. We have no more 
Bakery-Deli, have no more
Dinners Unlimited, and we still 
have no valid explanation of the 
losses. Why didnt Food Service 
examine the system for faults 
within its organizational structure 
for a possible solution to the 
crisis?
Was it a marketing problem? 
Was it a pricing problem? Was it 
the expensive imprinted cocktail 
napkins in Salads Plus? Was the 
competition in Oakland and 
Squirrel Hill too tough? Or was 
it a problem of inept manage
ment? Auxiliary Services could, 
not have examined the organiza
tional structure in the short time 
it took to make its decision.
We were told that each Food 
Service operation was an indepen
dent entity and responsible for 
covering its own costs. Yet the 
Food Service management con
siders the overhead expense to be 
a collective contribution from 
each operating unit.
Though Food Service has no 
profit of loss, as such a successful operation contributes to this 
overhead expense. Clearly the 
overhead of the Faculty Dining 
Room is more than the $1,000 
it contributed for the past 5 
months. The Tartan Grill, pri
marily frequented by Students, 
contributed $27,000 to the 
$121,000 budgeted overhead. 
Were students subsidizing the 
Faculty Dining Room? Why 
cant we subsidize our BakeryDeli instead?
Food Service and Auxiliary 
Services have been contradicting 
themselves on these and other 
issues. Perhaps they
do not know the answers them
selves. We would like to see an 
independent management study 
of the entire Food Service opera
tion. We would also expect that 
in the future the University will 
consider more thoroughly the 
root of the problem and perhaps 
then service to students would 
not be so seriously injured.
Jim Balsom 
Saul CarlinerTARTAN
Volume 80 
Number 13~ 
January 15,1980
Editor in Chief: Jean Pellegrini 
Publication Manager: Michael Brzustowicz 
Managing Editors: Neil Adler
Brian Byrnes 
Business Manager: Karen Stevens 
Production Manager: Smita Pai 
News Editor: Doug Kirsop 
Features Editor: Lynn Epstein 
Entertainment Editors: Alan Spero
Melody Mazzie
Sports Editor: Perry Colosimo
Magazine Editor: Susan Borg 
Photography Editor: Robert Zusman
.....j: Beth Arden, Pete Levin, Asst. Editors;Tim Barkwell, Jim Bost.Sue Brillman, Jeanette Bryan, Anne Cesnik, Linda 
Dickerson, Larry Duffee, Ed Frankberry, Chris Gebhardt, Andre Jenkins, Mark Kennet, Pete Levin, Chris Magyai. Joshua 
Melvin, Deb Morgas. Debbie Nir, Elliot Ohlberg, Judy Ohlin, Andy Ragan, Vernon Valentine, Sue Wilkin, Elsie Yoder. 
Eddie Zayas/
Features: Jeanne Abmayr, Lisa Andruzzi, Luis Ball, Beth Bangor, Valerie Brandt, Art Benjamin, Michael Conroy, Chris 
Gebhart, Bob Gleason, Roger Harris, Neva Jones, Paul Karmin, Kathy Krummert, David Land, Kwasi Mensah, David 
Mills, Sheryl Sarifna, Stu Seidman.
Entertainment: Ed Slosky, events editor; Scott Alburger, Kate Bertrand, Bob Henry, Dave Kirby, Paul L. Kravits, Cheryl 
Goodman, Timothy LeVan, Joan Livitski, Paul Mendler. Gretchen Miller, Aline Naters, Debbie Nir. Scott Schaffer, 
David Sheward,Ted Smits, Vernon Valentine.
Sports: David Wills, assistant editor; Fran Arsht, Ronnie Ben-Aron, Dave Brandwene, Pat Crump. Frank Pugliano.Scott 
Schatter, Bob Share, Thomas Smith, Lesley Weiser, Craig Woolheater.
Production: Ken Kulak, assistant manager; Neil Adler, Michael Brzustowicz. Gretchen Miller, Sue Wilkin. Eddie Zayas. ' 
Photography: Chuck Chidekel, Larry Duffee, Jenny Ladd, Skip Stong.
Art: Tom Hart, Acting Director; Robert Conroy, Andy Epstein, Tina Klem, Tom Megalis.
Copyright 1979 by the Camegie-Mellon University Tartan. All rights reserved. The Editorial Board reserves the right 
to edit or withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Gov
ernment of Carnegie-Mellon University. Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578-2111 or 2112. 
24-hour answering service 2113. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111. Printed by Artcrafts Unlimited. Pittsburgh, PA 15206.

---------------------------------------------------

views
CMU Traditions: 'The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly'
The following View from the 
Top was written by John P. 
Crecine, Dean ofH&SS.
Most students are at least 
vaguely aware of what a unique 
university CMU is. Certainly, fac
ulty who have come from other 
institutions know how atypical 
this institution is. We can be truly 
proud of many of CMUs unique 
characteristicssome of them are 
what attracted us here in the first 
place, while other sources of our 
distinctness I would rather do 
without. The difficult question is 
whether some of the positive 
things that make CMU so unique 
also inevitably lead to some of the 
of the more uncomplimentary 
attributes of the place.
A particularly distinguishing 
feature of CMUand one for 
which we can be justifiably proud 
is our interdisciplinary tradition. 
Students who have not attended 
college elsewhere are probably not 
in the best position to understand 
how rare an institution CMU is 
on this dimension. The view that 
no single discipline has a monop
oly on truth (or even beauty), 
that the problem or phenomena 
of interest should dictate what 
theory and method is relevant, 
and that intellectual discipline 
does not require strict adherence 
to the conventional wisdom of a 
particular academic discipline is, 
in my opinion, what makes CMU 
such an exciting place for a 
scholar to be. There are better 
places for disciples of almost any 
particular academic discipline to 
be; there are no better places for 
an interdisciplinary approach.
The forces that have maintain
ed CMUs pre-eminence as the 
ideal for interdisciplinary research 
and scholarship seem to me to 
be the strong engineering tradition
here (if it works, well use it and 
who-gives-a-damn-about-ortho
doxy), the size of the institution 
(on a campus where there are 
but five political scientists, rather 
than a political science depart
ment with 65 faculty, it is diffi
cult to avoid ideas in other disci
plines), and an enlightened admin
istration and senior faculty who 
have actively resisted the natural 
tendencies for all intellectual 
activities to gravitate into nice, 
neat, compartmentalized acade
mic disciplines.
In addition to the continuous 
record of accomplishment the 
engineering and fine arts schools 
represent, CMUs greatest achieve
ments have occurred when an ac
tivity breaks out of conventional 
disciplinary boundries and when 
there has been a complete restruc
turing of an area from the ground 
up, focusing on fundamentals. 
The Carnegie Plan for Proffessional Education in the 1940s and 
50s revolutionized engineering 
education in this country by 
adding study in the humanities 
social sciences to the concep
tion of a well-educated, profes
sional engineer. GSIA of the 
1950s revolutionalized business 
approach which focused on fun
damental concepts in the beha
vioral, social, and management 
sciences. Produced along the way 
were seminal contributions to and 
reorientations of portions of the 
disciplines of economics, political 
science, management science, and 
psychology and of the functional 
areas of business. Herbert Simons 
Nobel Prize stems from some of 
this work. More than a decade 
later, in the mid-1960s the GSIA 
model was used to create a 
similar revolution in education for 
the public service - the SUPA, En
gineering and Public Policy, and
Awareness Anyone?
by L. Vernon Valentine
An assignment for a writing 
course last semester gave me the 
opportunity to confirm a year
long suspicion about this campus. 
There lurks about the CMU stu
dent body two of the deadliest 
mental diseases of the intellect
ually astute, namely, ignorance 
and apathy, particularly with re
gard to important world issues.
First, let me clear up any con
fusion which might exist between 
the words apathy 'and ignor
ance.  The two words are defin
itely not synonymous, yet they 
are still closely related. Webster 
defines apathy as indifference; 
lack of interest.  It defines 
ignorance as lack of knowledge.  
Different meanings, yet both per
tain to a deficiency, a lack of 
something. Often times, apathy 
is the primary reason for ignor
ance.
A one-question random survey 
conducted by yours truly, What 
is apartheid?, indicated that 
nearly 60% of the students here 
were ignorant of the words mean
ing (Apartheid: legalized system 
of racial separation, most com
monly demonstrated by the racist 
government of South Africa).
H&SS Public Policy and Manage
ment programs reflect this new 
approach. Cognitive psychology 
and information processing the
ories of human behavior, perhaps 
the hottest new perspectives in 
the behavioral and social sciences, 
were practically invented at CMU 
as was computer science, which 
initially married aspects of ar
tificial intelligence, cognitive psy
chology and electrical engineering.
Some activities we have initiat
ed recently in H&SS are also in 
the interdisciplinary traditions of 
CMU. The Core curriculum, em
phasizing both a broad base of 
fundamental skills and perspec
tives and the ways those skills 
and perspectives relate to one 
another, makes unique demands 
on faculty and students by cutting 
across conventional, disciplinary 
boundaries. CMU is the only 
institution I know of where such a 
bold approach to liberal education 
would be possible and where 
professional education is so close
ly tied to a similiar set of funda
mentals. The Communications De
sign Center (CDC) constitutes an 
attempt to synthesize aspects 
of what we know about human in
formation processing, rhetoric and 
writing and the physical latout 
of documents in the context of 
document design problems. The 
CDC is another example of things 
CMU does best and that would 
not happen at another university. 
In Fine Arts, changes that are just 
beginning in Architecture show 
promise of expanding educational 
horizons in that area as well.
Another distinguishing feature 
of CMU concerns our students, 
faculty and staff. Most are very 
goal-oriented, highly motivated, 
and confident that their par
ticular career tragectory is 
right. It is my observation that
almost everyone at Carnegie-Mellon works harder than their coun
terparts in other universities. This 
is no place to retire! The adminis
tration and faculty are compulsive 
about excellence, about being 
the best at whatever it is the 
University is trying to do, and like 
most of the students, are ob
sessed with professionalism. 
This work-ethic-run-amuck is self 
perpetuating and has helped cre
ate a university that can be 
best described as an institutional 
overachiever. Individuals who can 
stand the pressure are very pro
ductive in this environment.
There is a darker side to the 
compulsiveness-about-excellence 
and work-ethic syndromes, how
ever. Powerful incentives are cre
ated among students and faculty 
alike to continually reassure them
selves that they are indeed as good 
as they aspire to be and that 
they are somehow superior to the 
next guy. We see, as a result, 
several schools and departments 
talking a much better game than 
they play, and (no doubt, unconciously) attempting to build them
selves up by tearing others down. 
These things go on at other 
universities too, but not with the 
intensity one finds at CMU. The 
sad thing is that an innocent 
entering such an environment is 
almost forced to counter with 
wild claims of excellence and 
superiority to survive.
For students, faculty, depart
ments, colleges and schools, CMU 
is a very competitve place. Com
petition (even when the rules are 
the same for all participants, 
which is not the case at CMU) 
is a decidedly mixed blessing in a 
University, especially when the 
competitve behavior is directed 
inwardly. Lost is the degree of 
reflectiveness, intellectual humili
ty, tolerance, and civility that one 
usually associates with a great 
university.
President Cyert, who is as 
compulsive about excellence as 
any man I know, has continually 
referred to the evils of this form 
of destructive competition. Such 
competition leads to some pretty 
silly situations like the annual 
(every November) exchange of 
letters in the TARTAN: en
gineers can get jobs, make lots of 
money, technology is king, and an 
H&SS/CFA education is worth
less countered by engineers are 
nurds, cant communicate and will 
never advance beyond their first 
job vecause of it ; and other people 
get interesting, well-paying jobs 
too. Another rather visible ex
ample is the gratious overt and 
covert attacks on SUPA last year 
on intellectual quality grounds by 
some faculty from units with 
noticeably lower research produc
tivity than SUPAs (at least as 
measured by publications per 
faculty, cponsored research, and 
strength of faculty promotion 
and tenure cases). My purpose is 
not to discuss these particular 
examples - and believe me, there 
are more! but rather to illus
trate some of the costs that seem 
to come with CMUs style of 
operation. The examples also sug
gest the utility of turning ones 
critical facilities inward first, 
before focussing on ones peers, 
and that a little humility and civil
ity might go a long way.
CMU is an intellectually excit
ing place to be. The challenge is to 
preserve those traditions and prac
tices that make the place interes
ting while, at the same time, try
ing to create a more reflective and 
civil society for ourselves. ??????
'CMU is not an island
If these people who I surveyed 
represent Americas enlightened 
by virtue of being college 
then the number of ignorant and 
apathetic Americans must be 
greater. This is just one example.
It is painfully obvious that the 
attitudes of many students on this 
campus are apathetic toward any 
issues unrelated to their own 
studies or Greek mixers. While 
not condemning devotion to ones 
boojcs or the desire to release 
weekday frustrations at parties, 
I do condemn those who habi
tually use the books as a major 
cop-outfor, at least, being aware 
of important current issues which 
affect all of us.
Perhaps many feel that the 
struggle of a people in a distant 
land is of little concern to them. 
Moreover, it may not bother 
them that the government of a 
coutry waving the banner of hu
man rights has a part in econom
ically sustaining a racist regime, 
or worse, that members of our 
own Board of Trustees are strong
ly affiliated with corporations 
which trade with South Africa. 
However, to those of us with 
a working conscience, these things 
might appear a bit strange, if
not contradictory.
I know this campus is capable 
of awakening to current issues 
with a strong voice. It happens 
whenever an issue directly aff
ects the body. Remember all the 
fervor over the draft issue last 
spring? Why should we stop 
short? But perhaps such largescale concern is an indication of 
true feelings: Let me make it, 
and the rest be damned. I cer
tainly hope not.
Facing the facts, academic pre
ssures as an excuse for unaware
ness and apathy is an invalid one. 
1 recall a Spring Break visit to 
Brandeis University last year. The 
contrast in student activity and 
awareness between that campus 
and this one was overwhelming. 
At the time, a large segment of 
that student body was actively 
protesting for university divest
ment from all interests in South 
Africa. In addition, most of the 
campus was caught up in the on
going Student Senate elections. I 
will certainly not be one to say 
that acedemic rigors of Brandeis 
are any less challenging than those 
of Carnegie-Mellon.
So now we must cone to grips 
with an unjustified apathy. How
can we begin to combat the 
unawareness syndrom? We can 
start by making efforts to catch 
the six or elevon oclock national 
news editions. Or, the next 
time we are in an office awaiting 
a job interview or counseling 
session pick up a magazine or 
newspaper and scan the head
lines. Finally, we can patrionize 
any campus films or activities 
that will increase awareness. A 
prime example is a short series of 
internationally-themed films 
which will be run on campus on 
Sunday, January 27. Remember 
CMU is not an islandit is a part 
of the real world too.
Steve Conroy
fOR TWO AlUPI've seen 1 
WAS m "PHOffSSKWAL
HardHt 
rue cw A.N.S. 
REALISTIC aiS'AifSS 
A/W> COAWWCS
WASrWweo
rue cw> mrr wuiywl
Ecouofmc rweoKv.AMO ; 
GET POUAJ Aw rye 
Z/UCS Of FfKYWYaus/iuess nwerte.
f arens NOW I'M TA/UA16- 
r'SAS/c CAKras awd yor?m filing TEcmQoe\
THH t'U tfAYf "ItfTMMATIOAMi BUSINESS I*.
BRlSINOr FOKElG-U 
C0\)ttNt1tk>T Off KIMS
Wnoeucr/ to coeot. WfTX SPECIAL EHWSn 
rtMEO on EHttTlLEmtiT

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4TARTANJanuary 15, 1980
MIS by any other name
Jerry Westermann-Clark receiving top honors from Dr. Tomlinson Fort, Jr., at the Chemical 
Engineering SymposiumChem E papers lauded
On December 13th, papers of the An
nual Chemical Engineering Symposium 
were announced. The symposium was held 
on the 15th and 16th of November and 
featured 29 papers encompassing a wide 
spectrum of topics within the chemical 
engineering discipline. All presentations 
were the work of Carnegie-Mellon graduate 
students.
Finalists and their papers included:
Lewis E. Grimes - The Synthesis and Evo
lution of Networks of Heat Exchangers 
that Feature the Minimum Number of 
Units 
Michael Reilly - Ambient Trace Metal 
Levels in Pittsburgh Air
Greg Townsend -- Pharmo cokinetics of 
Adriamycin in Normal and Neoplastic 
Tissues 
Jerry Westermann-Clark - Coion Exclu
sion Potential in Charged Membranes 
Mr. Westermann-Clarks work received 
top honors based on both presentation and 
technical content. He was awarded $100 
and an all-expense paid trip to present his 
paper at an upcoming A.I.Ch. E. confer
ence.
1980 Census wants you
This Memo, from Dean of Student Affairs, 
Earl Swank, is to all students and concerns 
the upcoming Federal Census.
In the spring of 1980, the Census 
Bureau will conduct its decennial count 
of the population. To insure accuracy 
it must include students resident in Uni
versity housing. The University will release 
to the Bureau names and campus addresses 
of all students living in University housing 
so long as the 3D form does not indicate 
refusal to release directory information.
The release of names to the Census
Bureau will not take place prior to the end 
of January. Any student who wishes to 
change the section dealing with the release 
of directory information should do so in 
the Registrars office no later than January 
18 so that file maintenance can be 
completed before information is prepared 
for the Census Bureau.
Any student who is unsure of whether 
the release of directory information has 
been authorized by the 3D document can 
check the indication on space 26 of the 
student copy of the 3D.
by Andrew L. Ragan
When Carnegie Tech became CarnegieMellon University, the Universitys college 
for the Sciences became the Mellon In
stitute of Science (MIS). Part of MIS was 
subsequently situated in the Mellon Insti
tute Building on Fifth Avenue in Oakland, 
previously the home of a private scientific 
research foundation called the Mellon 
Institute. The Mellon Institute became 
the Carnegie-Mellon Institute of Research 
(CMIR), and remained in a part of the 
Mellon Institute Building. Presently, 
the MIS Deans office is in Scaife Hall, the 
Chemistry and Biology Department^ of 
MIS are in the Mellon Institute Building, 
with Science Hall housing the rest of
MIS.
Now, MIS is looking for a new name. 
According to Lois Kiss, the Assistant Dean 
of MIS, the name similiarities of CMUs 
academic science departments and private 
science research organizations have caused 
great confusion to postal and delivery 
services and others who have had to
deal with the differences between MIS, 
CMIR, and the old Mellon Institute. 
Two of every three calls here are for the 
Mellon Institute, says Kiss, and mail 
clearly addressed to MIS goes to the
Mellon Institute Building. We need the
name change initially to clear up such 
confusions.
But the name change would also be 
useful in other ways, according to Kiss. 
CMIR, which is an inVestor-oriented, 
profit-making company within the Uni
versity system (but seperate from aca
demic functions) would be better able 
to capitalize on its connection with its 
reputable predecessor (the Mellon Insti
tute) in getting industrial contracts if the 
name Mellon Institute of Science was 
not being used by the college.
Kiss also points out that. MIS is a
I VU VU VU VUUU YU WUIU ITU HU WU VU VU lU IU VU U VU WU VU WU WU HU W * WU WU W U k VU
Engineers at Xerox work miracles.
Our engineers convert 
complicated tasks into simple 
ones. With just the push of 
a button, Xerox equipment 
works wonders. Dependably.
Our engineers reward? Success. 
And Xerox technology is built 
on success stories. - 
Xerox is dedicated to new ideas. 
And to our engineers who are 
developing them. While our 
competition cut their 
R&D budgets, we increased 
ours. (By 15%). Engineers at 
Xerox work with almost $1 
million a day converting the tech
nology of the future into reality. 
Our challenge of the 80s. Not 
everyone is ready for it. Xerox 
is. And were looking for 
engineers who want to be
part of it. Your future can 
get off to a great start in our 
reprographics technology. 
But did you know that
Xerox is also a leader in processor 
memory discs and drives, 
electronic typing and printing and 
telecommunications?
Xerox is a total information center.
Give your ideas the attention they 
deserve. Check with your college 
placement office for campus inter
view dates and schedules. Then 
talk to our campus representatives.
XEROX
Xerox is an affirmative 
action employer (male/female)
CAREERS THAT CANT BE DUPLICATED
college and not an Institute, and that the 
word Institute, aside from the confusion 
it causes, does not hold the same recogni
tion factor for MIS as it does in the name 
Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Mellon College of Science? CarnegieMellon College of Science? Carnegie-Institute of Science? Carnegie College of Sci
ence? These have been some of the sugges
tions recieved in the office of the Dean of 
MIS in response to a questionaire sent to 
MIS faculty concerning the proposed MIS 
name change. Assistant Dean Kiss stated 
that the College Council had already ap
proved Mellon College of Science (MCS) 
as its new name choice, but that faculty 
and student opinions will be considered 
before a final decision is made.
Although the Mellon family has no 
objections or preferences regarding the 
proposed name change, Kiss noted that 
keeping Mellon in the name not only 
provides a connection to the past name, 
but also lends an historical sense of re
search excellence to the college, and bal
ances the engineering colleges use of 
Carnegie in their name.SDC Space
The first meeting of SDC in the 1980s 
was held on January 9th in the Wherrett 
Room. President Jim Balsom informed 
representatives of the Food Service changes 
and of the fact that no student organiza
tion was contacted or consulted prior 
to the decisions.
Most of the meeting consisted of the 
announcements of recent SDC accomplish
ments and staff changes. Highlights of 
the meeting were:
--Margaret Morrison Apartment Resi
dents received a $20 payment for the 
breach of contract by Housing early last 
semester;
--Jeff Pitchford was elected new VicePresident for the Hill, after Mindie Jo 
Snyders resignation;
--Stacy Matz (of Donner) was ap
pointed Publicity Chairperson;
--Jim Jacobs, a representative-at-large, 
was chosen as Film Chairperson, a posi
tion vacated by the resignation of Todd 
Greenwood;
-SDC nominated Rick Hall for an 
award for excellence in student dormi
tory government given each year by the 
National Association of College and Uni
versity Residence Halls;
--and all representatives were reminded 
of the February 16th Valentines Dance.
The next meeting of SDC will be 
Wednesday, January 16, at 7:00 PM in 
Skibo.PR Director named
The following is an announcement from 
President Cyert:
I am pleased to announce the appoint
ment of R. Keith Moore as Director of 
Public Relations on January 15, 1980. 
Mr. Moore comes to CMU from the 
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State 
University in Blacksburg, Virginia, where 
he has been Director of Communications.
Mr. Moore succeeds Kenneth P. Service, 
who has accepted an appointment as 
Director of Information Services at the 
University of Cincinnati.
Give to the 
American 
Cancer 
Society

---------------------------------------------------

January 15,1980TARTANPage 5
Students reimbursed
continued from page 1.
until the work had been finished. Approx
imately $4,000 of the $5,000 was used to 
reimburse the MM dwellers.
The contractor has not requested the 
remainder of payment from the University 
as of now. And now that the University 
has used most of that money to pay the 
students who were inconvienced by the 
contractors delay, it is the opinion of both 
the lawyer and the contractor who 
attended the discussionthat if the contrac
tor brought a suit against the University, 
the University would win.
"The following memo was distributed on 
December 17, 1979, to all residents of the 
Margaret Morrison Apartment complex. 
Each person who resided in the Margaret 
Morrison Apartment Complex during the 
month of September, 1979 is entitled to a 
$20.00 cash refund for the inconvenience 
caused by the late arrival of the desks and 
bookshelves. This refund will be available 
at the Cashiers Office in the basement of 
Warner Hall by Wednesday December 19,
1979. Please have your current CMU ID 
card with you.
This refund was made possible through 
the actions of the Students Dormitory 
Council, the Margaret Morrison Special 
Committee and the cooperation of the 
Administration.
U.S. GOVERNMENT 
OPPORTUNITY OPENINGS FOR
 Scientific  Technical  Medical General Management Graduates
Uniformed Military Divisions of the Department of the Navy 
have positions open for scientific, technical, medical and 
general management graduates. Positions available include:
SCIENTIFIC/TECHNICAL
Aviation (Pilot Trainees 
and System Maintenance) 
Computer Technology 
Engineering (Civil/Marine/ 
Mechanical/Electrical) 
Nuclear Power 
Ocean Systems
MEDICAL/GENERAL
Business Administration
Communications
Legal
Medical (RN/MT/MD/DDS) 
Human Resources 
Supply
QUALIFICATIONS: Minimum BS/BE degree (or college 
seniors). Federal regulations require that applicants be no 
more than 27 years old (adjustable up to 3 years for Veterans) 
to ensure full opportunity for career advancement. Relocation 
overseas or domestically required. Applicants must pass a 
rigorous mental and physical examination and qualify for a 
security clearance.
BENEFITS: Management Trainees can expect an excellent 
benefits package which includes 30 days annual vacation, 
generous medical/dental/life insurance coverages and other 
tax-free incentives. Dependents benefits are also available. A 
planned promotion program is included with a commission in 
the Naval Reserve.
PROCEDURE: Register with Career Services/Placement Of
fice or call (800) 242-3736 for interview, or write a letter stating 
qualifications or send resume to DEPT of the NAVY, Coda 10, 
1000 Liberty Ave., Pittsburgh, PA 15222.
Cited for participation in the American Cancer Society's 1979 Save-A-Life Swim by volunteer 
coordinators Virginia Grindle (left) and Don Geyer (right) are Donna Pecman (left center) CMU 
Swim Coach and student Janet Axtell (right center), the school's top money earner with $69 in 
contributions.
The event raised over $32,000 for cancer control.America Film Series 
begins
Campus Program Planning is sponsoring the 13 part America Film Series beginning 
Monday, January 14, 1980. All showings will take place in the Wherrett Room in 
Skibo and each episode will be shown at 11:30 AM and 12:30 PM.
The Film schedule is as follows:
Monday, January 14 
Tuesday, January 15 
Wednesday, January 16 
Tuesday, January 22 
Wednesday, January 23 
Monday,-January 28 
Tuesday, January 29 
Wednesday, January 30 
Monday, February 4 
Tuesday, February 5 
Wednesday, February 6 
Monday, February 11 
Wednesday, February, 13
The New Found Land
Home From Home
Making a Revolution
Inventing a Nation
Gone West
A Fireball in the Night
Domesticating a Wilderness
Money on the Land
The Huddled Masses
The Promise Fulfilled and the Promise Broken 
The Arsenal
The First Impact
The More Abundant Life
DO YOU WANT 
TO GET INVOLVED?
THEN THE TARTAN 
NEEDS YOU!
We are looking for staff members 
for each section of the paper 
adjust your schedule and become 
part of an exciting experience.
ALSO we need an events editor 
for the Spring Semester and some
one interested in doing reviews 
of the Forbes Street Gallery.
ALL INTERESTED PERSONS CALL 578-2111, 
2112,2113
David Helperns
HOLLYWOOD ON TRIAL
They went to jail in defense of their rights
*&r'if!sPlUoMftTDmP1  ft uni. ....me
Produced by James Gutman 
Directed by David Helpern, Jr.
Screenplay by Arnie Reisman
Narrated by John Huston With appearances by Zero Mostel,
Otto Preminger and Ronald Reagan
A Corinth Film
THURSDAY FILM ARTS January 17 
7.9, 11 
DH2210 $.75 w/id $1.00 w/out 
semester passes on sale $7.00

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6TARTANJanuary 15, 1980
Activities Fee increase debated by Student Senate
continued from page 1.
about budgeting problems or plans, and 
how a change in the Activities Fee might 
affect them. Officials of these groups ex
press a cynical amazement at the lack 
Senate effort, and wonder if the student 
body is as supportive of the smaller in
crease as Sherman believes.
If Senate does not come to an agree
ment before the January Trustee meeting, 
the budgetary process for the 1980-81 
school year will be adversely affected. No 
planning would be possible until after the 
April Trustee meeting, as any increase in 
the Activities Fee must be approved by the 
Board of Trustees at an official meeting.
The Rules Committee of Student Senate 
recommended that the Fee be raised $10, 
the averaged voter response of the referen
dum held on December 6. This measure 
was discussed and amended to a $15 in
crease. Because 70% of the students who 
participated in the referendum voted to 
increase the Fee, the average of increases 
($14.42 rounded to $15) was considered a 
more reasonable figure.
The following is the text of the resolu
tion Student Senate currently intends to 
submit to the Board of Trustees for their 
January 21st meeting.
The Student Senate of Carnegie-Mellon 
University recommends that the current
annual Activities Fee be raised to $50, an 
increase of $20, with provision that:
1) The first five dollars of the increase 
be used to compensate foT the effect of 
inflation on present levels of support of 
activities;
2) The second five dollars be used to 
support improvements in services or pro
grams as approved by Senate recommen
dation of Finance Committee;
3) The remainder of the increase be so 
allocated between support of present acti
vities, capital expenditures, and/or new 
activities as to create and guarantee that a 
reserve be maintained to compensate for 
15% inflation in the following year;
4) Student Senate agrees not to re
quest a further increase to be effective 
prior to 1982-3.
Any Student Senate action is subject to 
restraint. A restraining petition must be 
signed by 250 Activities-Fee paying 
students and presented within 15 school 
days of the enactment. A general referen
dum must then be held within three weeks 
of presentation of the petition. The major
ity of votes cast shall determine the out
come.
SURVIVED
Food service changes unexplained
continued from page 1.
Food Service income by total overhead 
costs.
Calculation of overhead is arbitrary by 
its very nature, stated one GSIA faculty 
member, but Food Service should have 
taken that into consideration when the 
Bakery /Deli was moved to Morewood.
Overhead costs include utilities, office 
supplies, advertising and travel expense. 
Also included in overhead costs are approx
imately $35,000 which is the Food Service 
year-to-date capital reserve contribution. 
This figure is not included in the report. 
With the addition of the capital reserve 
contribution Food Service losses for the 
fall semester come to approximately 
$134,527.
The report does make clear, however, 
that although Dinners Unlimited and Cater
ing were operating at a loss, the Bakery/ 
Deli was able to recoup its food and labor 
costs. Eichmuller expects catering to make 
money during the spring semester because 
this is when most of the ceremonial dinners
take place; but this is not evident from the continued on page 22.
Unit - Income Salaries Cost of
________________________Total & perc. income Sales
Total Direct Contribution 
Cost (2+3) to Overhead
Kiltie Cafe$488,715$257,22653%$227,592$484,818$3,897
Tartan Grill187,00157,09730%102,159159,25627,745
Catering62,27829,82148%33,51063,331(1,053)
Faculty
Dining Room58,51721,80337%35,11056,9131,603
Bakery Deli55,12923,42843%31,31354,741388
Salads Plus54,67016,83530%25,94442,77911,891
Dinners
Unlimited49,00646,52295%35,87282,394 (33,388)
Deli Annex34,3361,9396%27,15929,0285,238
More Pizza22,0514,51020%13,13517,6454,406
Vending16,6627,16743%8,15015,3171,345
Note this...
Students living in the Hill dorms should 
be advised that cars parked on the west 
side of Margaret Morrison Street between 
Tech House and ihe Margaret Morrison 
building are now being ticketed. Ticketing 
is done twice each d^y. and the fine is $25 
per ticket.
I
CLOTHES ENCOUNTERS !
OF THE BEST KIND
January 24, 1980 
7:00 p.m. 
Wherrett Room
Join LOIS FENTON, internationally 
famous fashion consultant for 
men and women, to find out what 
to wear to make your first 
impression your best.
Open to the campus.
Sponsored by the The Career Development 
Committee of the Student Alumni Relations 
Council.
TARTAN News Staff 7 PM tonight
Skibo 50
SKIBOCAFETERIA
I Survived Skibo T-Shirts
Please send me __________T-Shirts at $5.00 each.
Enclosed is a check for $______________(Be sure to
bheck size and color.)
SizeColor of shirtName
(all w/black ink) Address
smallyellow
medbrowntel no.
largegrfip.nChecks to:
X large...orangeThe T-Shirt Co.
bineBox 968 Donner
redCampus Mail
other (if available)
ers>.
eooBe -0i *fina o
no**
I00*
$

---------------------------------------------------

fteeters
by Georgeanne Cherpes
Its that time of the year again here in 
the city of Pittsburgh. A quick look around 
will show streets decked in black and gold. 
Vendors line the streets selling buttons, 
hats, banners, bumper stickers and various 
other Steeler paraphenalia. Department 
stores are experiencing windfall profits 
with their newly opened all-sports 
centers. Pittsburgh has come to be known 
as the City of Champions. The fans in 
Pittsburgh are showing the kind of en
thusiasm for the Steelers that is normally 
reserved for an NCAA football game. 
Instead of cheering with the traditional 
pom poms, Steeler fans proudly wave their 
Terrible Towels. Hardly a day goes by 
when one doesnt hear the Steelers fight 
song broadcasted hourly over Pittsburgh 
stations. Not to be out done, local televi
sion channels air commercials demonstra
ting their support every half hour. Bakeries 
have joined in on the excitement offering 
edible souvenirs. Cookies, cakes, and 
candies are all bedecked with the well 
known black and gold. Signs of support 
as well as congratulations can be seen in 
storefronts, offices and even private homes.
Steeler fans take their football seriously 
- and with good reason. The Steelers have 
proven on the football field what the fans 
have always felt in their hearts. One look 
at the Steelers record over the past decade 
justifies their standing as one of the best 
teams in pro football.
With the big game only days away, 
theres no question as to what
Pittsburghers will be doing on January 
20th. All eyes will be glued to Channel 2 
to cheer the Steelers to victory  once 
again.
1... "LUV-YA RLAcaBLACK*Ji - N - mmh sm
AVAILABLE HERE
fiui&

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8TARTANJanuary 15, 1980
Popular Opinion
CMU food drops to new depths
SENIORSTHIS IS IT
Last chance to be photo
graphed for the yearbook, 
Senior portraits all this 
week. Sign up for appoint
ment at the Information 
Desk.
by Kathy Krummert
Americans are becoming increasingly aware of the beneficial effects of regular ex
ercise and good nutrition on their health, 
and many are making attempts to incor
porate both into their lives. For the col
lege student, doing so can be difficult 
due to tight schedules and a limited bud
get. Athletic facilities and organizations are 
available to accomodate a students exer
cise needs, and a food service is available 
to provide the student with convenient 
economical and balanced nutrition.
1] Should those who pre
fer a hot, cooked meal 
have to suffer inferior 
nutrition?
Convenient? Economical? Balanced? 
Not at CMU. Vith proper nutrition so im
portant to ones health, why is it becoming 
increasingly difficult to obtain here? 
This is not to say that good food is non
existent; for example, the addition of 
Salads Plus is a godsend for many. A vari
ety of fresh salad fixings, homemade soups, 
fruits and breads are very nutritious. How
ever, should those who are not salad-eaters 
be penalized with soggy, vitamin-depleted, 
greasy dishes? Should those who prefer a 
hot, cooked meal have to suffer inferior 
nutrition? Granted, food cooked in large 
quantities cannot be expected to be gour
met, but by reducing cooking time and 
altering methods (eliminating the grease, 
namely), it would make the food not 
only much more nutritious but certain
ly more palatable. Breading, sauces and
:* *tf ** U* ** ** ** ************************ *tf V* **** WM W* *tf ** *tf W* ** Wtf fe* ** Vtf MM **************** ** ..... .......................  ,=7-^
Management careers for those who appreciate 
the virtues of success.
Thanks to our management team, Xerox is 
entering the 80s with a future that never 
looked better. Or more exciting. We see a time 
of great change. Where our leadership of 
tomorrow will be determined by what we 
develop today. But Xerox literally wrote the 
book on people-oriented management, so 
were looking forward to the challenge. Were 
even selling our concepts to other companies 
trying to duplicate our success. But we still set 
the standards.
MBAs who start with Xerox have many paths to choose from. All leading to the 
top. Were worldwide leaders in reprographics, telecommunications, publishing, 
and much more! Best of all, we have a real competitive edge in all these areas, and 
thats a great advantage.
You cant find a company with more to offer an MBA than Xerox. If youre 
looking forward to challenges, and managing ambitious programs, wed like to 
hear from you.
Check with your college placement office for campus interview dates and 
schedules. Then talk to our campus representatives about careers that 
cant be duplicated.XEROX
Xerox it an affirmative action employer (male/female)
the like are neither necessary nor particu
larly tasty while simple, well-prepared 
dishes are. People can add condiments to 
suit their own tastes.
By closing the Bakery Deli and Dinners 
Unlimited, Food Service has eliminate two 
time-efficient sources of good nutrition. 
The Deli catered to many peoples tastesit was the only place on campus to buy a 
really good sandwich, fresh bagels and sin
fully delicious pastries. Despite the dispute 
over its new location, the Deli seemed to 
be faring very well. Dinners Unlimited was 
an economical choice for contract holders 
with large appetites or those who simply 
liked wider variety  there one could eat 
as much nutritious food as one desired 
without having to fill in the gaps with junk 
food.
Food Service claims to have compen
sated for the closings by extending the 
hours of the other facilities, most notably, 
those of More Pizza and the Deli Annex. 
However, while hoagies and pizza are not 
the worst of foods, they are not a meal 
substitute. Second semester has brought 
not only higher prices but more candy, 
snack foods, soda, etc. to the Deli Annex. 
Instead of discouraging junk food pur
chases, more are being made available. So 
much for advocating a balanced diet...
Wiat about the Tartan Grill and even 
more grease? One can hardly expect to eat 
there regularly and reap the benefits of 
good nutrition. If forced to eat later in 
the evening, one has a choice of starch, 
starch, or more starch. Vith less to choose 
from at dinn'ertime, people may be inclined 
to eat less, get hungry in the evening and 
resort to junk food. The vending machines 
with fruit, milk, yogurt, etc. have been 
removed, leaving only ice cream, soda, and 
sweets, none of which are desirable nutri
tionally^____________________
2) Instead of discouraging 
junk food purchases, 
more are being made 
available.
Now, the student must combat not only 
inadequate nutrition, but, as an obvious re
sult of the closings, poor efficiency, incon
venience and higher prices. Lines in the 
Kiltie Cafe extend almost to the doorway 
at times, and it is not uncommon to wait 
15 minutes at the Tartan Grill. Wien you 
finally get your food, there is no guarantee 
that you will be able to find a seat at which 
to eat it. There is a tremendous overload 
now that the Morewood Cafeteria is no 
longer available. All of those people have 
to eat somewhere. Vhat about all of that 
newly renovated wasted space in Morewood? Was it remodeled simply so Morewood residents can stare at it glumly as 
they trudge to Skibo? Now it sits empty 
until 6 PM when More Pizza and the Deli 
Annex open. That space is needed. And 
what about all of the cooking facilities not 
being used?
CMU students are often known to keep 
late hours. By 2 AM, one is very likely to 
get hungry. Couldnt there be a place to ac
comodate the late-nighters? Something 
very small that stocks more than candy, 
soda and the usual junk? Students should 
be given the option of buying something 
nutritious that is sensibly priced.
The latest action of Food Service has 
made a balanced diet even more difficult 
to follow for those who must eat on cam
pus. Nutrition is so important to a persons 
well-being; cant something be done?
070989332300

---------------------------------------------------

January 15, 1980TARTANPage 9
and sounds. Whatever the reason may be, 
if youve got the desire, then its possible 
to be a successful student and a successful 
teacher to yourself. You should establish 
your own goals as a guitarist and teach 
yourself accordingly. If your purpose is 
to be a rock star youll have to set a dif
ferent course than if youre doing it as a 
pleasurable pastime. Like most things, 
learning to play the guitar requires practice 
and patience. Its frustrating and it can be 
painful at first. But it will become easy in 
a short time if you train yourself with con
sistency and a bit of enthusiasm. It does 
take time and effort, but if youre sincere 
in your desire to learn, this wont bother 
you at all.
PHASE ONE: GETTING STRUNG UP 
If you htve a very old guitar stored 
away somewhere in your house, take a 
look at it. Its probably not going to suit 
your purposes, but if its only a matter of 
a dust cloth, you might save yourself some 
extra bucks. However, if you dont have a 
guitar its a good idea to rent one at a near
by music store. You can pay a monthly 
rental fee which will contribute to the total
COLLEGE STUDENTS within one year of com
pleting B.S.. M.S. or Ph.D. in physical sciences 
mathematics or engineering. Financial aid 
available for those candidates completing final 
year of degree with subsequent training period in 
nuclear theory and prototype reactor operation. 
Research and design positions also exist. Receive 
$700 per month up to 10 monts plus other 
benefits on your way toward achieving your 
degree and a commission in the naval reserves. 
Competitive applicants must possess U.S. citizen
ship ond be under 28 years of age. Send resume 
and college transcripts to Mr. Dave Leonard, Suite 
711, 1000 Liberty Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15222.
Telephone 412/644-5896.
At Republic, youre not just another number.Of course, a shot at number one isn't bad.
Were looking for individuals with freewheeling imagination. With initiative. Not just 
another corporate number. At Republic, we have room for your ideas. And they 
can take you far. Even to number one, if thats your ambition. Well provide 
training, so that you can develop your interests and talent. On your part, wed like 
a commitment of genuine interest.
You should be an engineering graduate, interested in positions in 
production supervision, maintenance supervision, and industrial engineering.
Or an accounting major with supervisory ability, to join our 
accounting staffs.
Or a metallurgist with the talent to contribute to maintaining and 
improving our precise quality control standards.
 We offer good, competitive salaries. An outstanding benefit program.
And involvement in an energetic, constantly-growing company in an industry vital 
to everyone.
Wed like to meet you and hear your ideas. So see your Placement 
Officer to sign up for ah interview when we visit your campus soon.
Or write Supervisor, College Relations and Recruitment, Department 
406, Republic Steel Corporation, Cleveland, OH 44101.
Rcpublicsteel
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
3000000000000000000O000000O0000000OO00O0O000000000000O000O000O0O00000000000Ok*i
fifth fret to make an A note. This note 
should be matched with the fifth string by 
adjusting the key which controls that 
string. Then push on the fifth string of the 
fifth fret-to make a D note. Again, match 
this with the string below it which is the D 
string. To make the G string, which is the 
next in line, push the fourth string of the 
fifth fret again and match notes. To make 
the B string push on the third string of the 
fourth fret and match it with the fifth 
string. The last string to be tuned is the E 
note, which can be made by pressing on 
the second string of the fifth fret. This 
note is one octave lower than the 6th 
string.
Tuning is a vital part of playing the gui
tar. If the notes are not tuned correctly to 
each other, they are off their pitch, and 
disharmony is created. New strings have a 
tendency to slip, in pitch, so youll pro
bably have to stop and tune your instru
ment frequently in a course of practicing. 
Keeping your strings in tune is a habit 
worth developing.
Look in next issue for PHASE TWO: 
MAKING CHORDS
Don't fret: Here's a guitar 'how-to'
by Leslie P. Weinberg
Most people hear guitar songs on the 
radio and say to themselves, Wow, 
wouldnt it be really exciting and fun and 
wonderful to be able to play the guitar! 
The fact is that it is possible for just about 
anyone to learn how to play the instru
ment. You might be in love with a guitar, 
or maybe you admire a great guitarist, or 
perhaps you just like the way a guitar looks
cost of the guitar. I would recommend in 
most cases an acoustic guitar for the,begin
ners because it has a richer tonal quality 
than an electric guitar, unless you have an 
amplifier to accompany your electric gui
tar. But more important, you should ggt a 
guitar thats comfortable for your body, one 
thats not too heavy or big. I also would 
suggest getting a nylon string guitar, rather 
than a steel string, for the simple reason 
that it is much easier on your fingers. In 
the beginning, your fingers will be sensi
tive. Make sure that if you are left-handed, 
you get a left-handed guitar. A left guitar 
is simply one with a pick guard on the 
reverse side of the sound opening. A pick 
guard is a piece of plastic or tortoise shell 
which protects the wood from being 
scratched with picks or fingers in strum
ming.
Putting strings on your guitar for the 
first time is like loading a camera for the 
first time. They both seem rather compli
cated until you get the hang of it. Let 
the sales person in the music store show 
you how for the first time, or follow the 
instructions on the string package. After
youve gotten the strings on, you must 
tune the guitar. If you dont have access
ibility to a piano, get a tuning fork which 
produces the note middle E. On a stan
dard piano middle E is the 26th white key 
from the left. Middle E also is two white 
notes above middle C. On the guitar this 
note is the top string, and it is considered 
the sixth string.
To form a note, tighten the key which 
controls the pitch of the string until it 
matches middle E. If you dont know 
whether your perception is right or wrong 
in matching the notes, dont worry about 
it. If its good enough for your .ear then 
its good enough. The other five strings 
will be tuned to this string. Start off by 
tuning the sixth string.
On the edge of the neck you will notice 
that there are little dots. Also on the front 
of the neck of the guitar you will see small 
bars which divide the space of the neck 
into portions. These portions are called 
frets. For right now you only need to con
cern yourself with the dot on the fifth fret. 
This is the starting point at which you tune 
your guitar. Press on the sixth string at the

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10TARTANJanuary 15,1980
MAJORS
TALKTODOQ4G
If youre about to graduate with 
an engineering or computer science 
degree, wed like to talk to you about 
your future.
Will it be in commercial jetliners? 
Were building two new planes  the 
767 and 757. While the orders for 
727s, 737s and 747s keep coming 
from all over the world.
Perhaps youd like to get into the 
aerospace field, where we have 
more projects going than you can 
shake a calculator at.
Or maybe youll help us provide 
computer services to over 2,000 
clients, including government, 
private industry, commercial air
planes and aerospace.
Whatever path you take at
Boeing, youll enjoy living in Seattle 
 one of Americas most beautiful 
cities.DOQNGWIHDC OH CAMPUS SOON.
Boeing will be here within the 
next two weeks. So sign up for your 
interview today in the Placement 
Office.
Then we can tell you in person 
about all the opportunities youll have 
to grow with Boeing.
If this time is inconvenient for 
you, just write us: The Boeing 
Company, P.O. Box3707-VPM, 
Seattle, WA 98124.
An equal opportunity employer.
GETTING POPL TOGTHR
Andy Ragan, Conference delegate; Damien Bosco, Director of Marketing and Training; llene 
Steiner, 1979 President; and Ken Boyd, prospective president display AIESEC awards for Most Out
standing Local Committee and Project of the Year.
AIESEC captures awards
To most CMUers, AIESEC is merely 
another hash of undecipherable, not to 
mention unpronounceable, abbreviations. 
As llene Steiner, 1979 President explains, 
is eye (pointing to her eyes) -sec, and 
it is the French acronym for the Interna
tional Association of Students in Econo
mics and Business Management. AIESEC 
chapters exist world-wide, providing op
portunities for their members to gain 
practical experience in professional atmos
pheres. The CMU chapter is not only an 
award-winning one, but it also sports 
the second largest membership tally with 
its 70 members.
Operating like a company, AIESEC has 
its own Board of Advisors with notable 
businessmen and academia, such as Dr. 
van Horn and Scotty Theissen, Branch 
Manager of IBM. The organizations main 
functions are to provide prospective busi
nessmen with practical experience, to raise 
and handle funds, and to organize projects 
that will familiarize members with the real 
business world.
This past year, AIESEC won the Na
tional Conference Award for having the 
most outstanding local committee. With
its Management Editorial Speaker Series, it 
received Project of the Year, and an 
additional compliment was the election of 
Dave McKee, a local committee member, 
as Advisory Councillor for AIESEC United 
States.
One of AIESECs most interesting fea
tures is its foreign exchange program, 
where local committees raise traineeships 
in vicinity corporations. These traineeships 
are then filled by qualified chapter mem
bers in foreign countries. In 1979, the local 
AIESEC sent overseas 14 students, a few of 
which were Ken Boyd, llene Steiner, and 
Dave King (Norway), Patty Miller (Eng
land), and Dave Carter (Greece). Eleven 
traineeships have been raised to date for 
the 1980 exchange in corporations such as 
Gulf Oil, US Steel, PPG, and Westinghouse. 
These areas of accounting, marketing, 
and finance will then be filled by foreigners 
from all over Europe, Korea, Ecuador, the 
Middle East.

---------------------------------------------------

January 15,1980TARTANPage 11
Spon sr it Bors,WE cWST GOT 15 
MOREftfERS Off THE PARALLELS BETWEEN HAMLET UE*R$ 
AMD ftWlNKRASl
This amoke-flr7f cc*s
Term papers 
for sale
(University of Arizona, CCRS) Academic 
Research Papers: Improve Your Grades, 
say the ads in college newspapers and such 
national magazines as Rolling Stone. Send 
$1 for catalogue of topics. It is research 
that is for sale, but it is research that can 
be handed in to a professor as a term paper 
with little more than a re-typing.
Nobody knows how many of these 
papers are bought by college students, but 
it is easy to see that the companies in the 
term paper business are making out well. 
Since their beginnings in the early 1970s, 
such companies as Research Assistance of 
Los Angeles, and Collegiate Research 
Systems in New York have expanded their 
services with national advertising and cata
logues of prewritten papers which number 
in the thousands. If just one-half of one 
percent of college students bought a 10- 
page paper annually, the companies 
would take in over $2 million.
- While its difficult to find out how 
many papers are being sold, or to whom, 
the quality of those papers can be investi
gated. A situation presented itself where a 
reporter, who is also a senior at the Univer
sity of Arizona, had been assigned a 10- 
page term paper in his modern dramatic 
literature course. Plans were quickly 
drawn up to buy a paper to turn in to the 
professor without his knowing it. The 
students own, self-prepared term paper 
would be left with a department head and 
turned in after the purchased paper was 
graded.
The first tiling to do was to get a cata
logue. There was a nagging question of 
whether or not the companies actually 
were selling honest-to-goodness term pa
pers. After all, when interviewed by report
ers, most deny that the purpose of their 
business is to fulfill students needs.
We hate that term (term paper mill) 
being applied to us, said Michael 
Spencer of Research Assistance. Most of 
our service is sold to businesses. We dont 
even know h"w many students use the 
service. Were just selling information; the 
morality lies with the student.
Bur the myth was quickly dispelled 
by one phone call by the^student/reporter.
Hello. I need a term paper fast, said 
the student to the gentleman who answer
ed the phone at Research Assistance.
Okay, when is your paper due? he 
asked. And what is the subject?
After noting that the paper wasnt due 
for three weeks, the gentleman said there 
was plenty of time to order the catalogue 
by mail. And if you need the paper 
shortly after you get the catalogue, just call 
us and order it by phone.
One dollar, and about five days later, 
the catalogue arrived. In Drama:World
there were 60 papers to choose from, not 
to mention the many titles that could be 
found under comparative literature and 
other dramatic subsections. The choice 
came down to two papers. First, there was 
Satres Concept of Freedom as Realized 
in 4 Plays, a 13-page paper complete with 
footnotes and bibliography. And second, 
there was Brecht: Contends that the 
purpose of his theatre was to instill in the 
spectator a sense of discrepancies in his 
social environment, a 10-page paper with 
footnotes.
The cost for these pre-written catalogue 
papers is $330 a page. Original research 
will be done for $8 a page. The prices keep 
going up as the degrees involved get higher. 
For $12 a page, one company will do Mas
ters theses, and for the big one, the doc
toral thesis, the company will charge a 
mere $30 a page. The reporter chose the 
10-page Brecht paper, because it was 
cheaper.
As for the legality of all this, nine states 
have outlawed the selling of materials 
which the merchant knows will be turned 
in for academic credit. No such law exists 
in Arizona. And, of course, if any student 
was caught buying and turning in such 
materials verbatim, he or she would proba
bly face plagiarism at school.
To get around the knowingly-turnedin rule, the companies require most pur
chasers to sign a disclaimer saying that the 
materials bought would not be used for 
academic credit. But the University of 
Arizona student signed no disclaimer.
One week before the paper was due, the 
reporter phoned in his order. Four days 
later, a plain white envelope arrived with 
ten pages of research. The paper had 
been photocopied and it required re-typing 
before it could be handed in. Footnotes
were included, although the style wasnt 
quite correct. The paper was re-typed 
exactly as it came in, and was turned in to 
the unsuspecting professor two days later.
The paper was given an A-minus. I 
wavered between a B-plus and an A-mi
nus, said the professor after he found out 
about its origin. So I gave the benefit of 
the doubt to the student. There really were 
some good points made here.
It should be noted that the student/re
porter was doing A work in the class and 
had a fairly close student/professor rela
tionship. The class had about 18 students 
in all.
The reporter, being of sound journalistic 
ethics (a sap, as same might put it) ex
plained the situation to the professor and 
then turned in his real paper. It received a 
B. There is no moral to this story.
A 
SISE offers help and 
friendship to the
International.
INTERNATIONAL STUDENT 
EVANGELISM 
3238 Juliet Street 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
LOOKING FORARlGCESSION-PROOFCARGCR?
Then consider a career in insurance. Insurance I 
is one of the world's fastest growing, most /
secure and rewarding businesses. And there's 
room in it for you regardless of your academic ) 
background if you are properly trained. )
If an insurance career sounds good to you,
our proven insurance training program should. )
sound good too. Any major qualifies.
Convenient evening classes Downtown begin \ 
in late January. For information bulletin \
call or write: (
insurancedevelopmentorganization
2901 Danlsville Road, Pittsburgh, PA 15216
(412)343-9522 )

---------------------------------------------------

Six stories, one plot:The Romance of Our Age isTechnology.
Rendezvous 
n v ,n Spain.
1 * You're a software
applications 
specialist.
When you picked 
.this career, you 
never dreamed that one day you d 
rendezvous in Barcelona. Spain 
with two Navy destroyers.
But when your company is Texas 
Instruments and one of your cus
tomers is the U. S. Sixth Fleet, you 
learn to expect the unexpected.
The destroyers are equipped with 
Tl computers and they need new 
software fast You come aboard and 
sail with the Fleet until your job is 
completed.
Not a bad assignment for a soft
ware specialist named Susie. You re 
glad you got into technology.
The Incredible 
Talking Chip.
You re an inte
grated circuit 
designer at Tl.
You ve helped 
find a way to make 
a chip talk, something no integrated 
circuit has ever done before.
First application: an electronic 
aid that helps children learn to spell. 
The world s first talking textbook.
And that s just the beginning.
The talking chip s potential is mindbending. You re glad you got into 
technology
The Salesmans 
Dream.
You re a Tl sales 
engineer. You've 
got what is prob
ably one of the 
most irresistible 
selling messages in the history of 
salesmanship.
It goes like this: Hold this TI-59 
Scientific Calculator in your hand." 
Now. let s compare it to the most 
popular computer of the 1950s  
the IBM 650.
The 650 weighed almost three 
tons, required five to 10 tons of air 
conditioning and 45 square feet of 
floor space. And it cost $200,000 
in 1955 money.
Now look at the TI-59 Calculator 
you re holding in the palm of your 
hand. It has a primary memory 
capacity more than double that of 
the 650. It performs its principal 
functions five to 10 times faster.
And it retails for under $300."
With a story like this, the hardest 
part of your job is holding onto your 
sample. You re glad you got into 
technology.
The Joy Of 
Complication.
You're in semi
conductor design 
at Tl. You love it 
when people at 
parties ask you 
what you do. You say. I make 
things complicated:' (Pause.)
In fact. I got promoted recently for 
creating some major complications.'* 
What you mean (but seldom ^ 
explain) is this: the more active 
element groups (AEGs) you can put
on a single chip of silicon, the more 
the average AEG cost goes down.
In short, you make things cheaper 
by making them more complicated.
Your work made it possible for a - 
Tl consumer product that sold three 
years ago for about $70 to sell 
today for $14.95.
Your future looks wonderfully 
complicated. You're at about 100.000 
AEGs per chip now and 1.000.000 
is in sight.
You're glad you got into technology.
Outsmarting 
Smog.
You've always 
designed air
borne radars for 
Tl customers.
Now, all of a 
sudden you know your next radar 
design is going to stay at the airport. 
On the ground.
It's on fhe ground that traffic 
controllers at Los Angeles Inter
national Airport have a problem.
They can 'see'' incoming and out
going airplanes on their radar just 
fine, so long as the airplanes are in 
the air.
But when the airplanes are on the 
ground touching down, taking off, 
taxiing, parking they are some
times impossible to see and control. 
Ground smog obscures them.
You believe you have an answer 
to the smog problem. You dig out 
the plans for an airborne groundmapping radar you helped design.
You adapt the design so the L. A. 
controllers can use it to see through 
smog. It works beautifully.
Today your smog-piercing radar 
is widely known as Airport Surface
Detection Equipment (ASDE). It s 
standard equipment at L. A. Inter
national and at the airport in 
Geneva, Switzerland. Other airports 
with smog and snow problems are 
expected to have it soon.
You're glad you re in technology.
Oil Sleuths 
International.
You re a geo
physicist. A good 
one. You could be 
with any of the big 
oil companies. But 
you wanted to get with a company 
whose specialty is the same as 
yours. Exploration.
That s why you re at Tl. in V 
Geophysical Service.
Tl explorer ships, Tl photo
geologic aircraft and Tl truck- and 
tractor-mounted vibrator systems 
are working all over the world. 
They're finding oil. And they re 
identifying areas where no oil 
exists, thereby saving huge losses 
in drilling costs.
Also, Tls worldwide computer 
network and its Advanced Scientific 
Computer is making 3-D recording 
and processing possible. This ex
clusive exploration technique is the 
only practical way to unscramble 
"no-record areas on land and sea.
Youre a happy sleuth. You're in 
on the biggest hunt in history. And 
your team is out in front.
Youre glad you got into 
technology.
If youre not in technology yet, think it over.If you are in technology, talk to Texas Instruments.
Campus Interviews
Jan. 17-18,30-31,March 6-7,14, April 7-8
See what Tl is doing in:
Send for the 34-page picture story 
of Tl people and places.
Write: George Berryman. Texas Instruments 
Corporate Staffing. P. O. Box 225474.
M S 67. Dept. CG. Dallas. Texas 75265
 Microcomputers and microprocessors
 Semiconductor memories
 Linear semiconductor devices
 Microelectronic digital watches
 Calculators
 Minicomputers: hardware, software 
and systems featuring software 
compatibility with microprocessors
 Distributed computing systems
 Electronic data terminals
 Programmable control systems
 Data exchange systems
 Advanced Scientific Computers
 Digital seismic data acquisition 
systems
 Air traffic control radar and Discrete 
Address Beacon Systems
 Microwave landing systems
 Radar and infrared systems
 Guidance and controls for tactical 
missiles
 Worldwide geophysical services
 Clad metals for automotive trim, 
thermostats, and electrical contacts
 Interconnection products for elec
tronic telephone switching systems
 Temperature-sensitive controls for 
automobiles and appliances
 Keyboards for calculators and for 
many other products
65TAR N1RDavi51DR
INCORPORATED
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F

---------------------------------------------------

rehearses his band before
,______T___________pntprtainmentCount Basie going strong after six decades
Count Basie _________
by George Gee
Here is a man still going strong in the 
80s, a man in his 70s who, despite a 
severe heart attack in 1976 in Los Angeles, 
enthusiastically continued his unending 
string of one-night stands throughout the 
land.
William Count Basie is truly one of 
a kind. I had the pleasure of meeting and
seeing Count Basie and his Orchestra at 
the Ozanam Strings Benefit Concftt at 
Carnegie Music Hall last December 15th. 
Ever since Count Basie brought his band 
out of Kansas City in 1936, his name has 
been synonymous with swinging music. 
He always plays with a clearly pronounced 
beat which sets feet tapping, and that has 
been the fundamental reason for his su
premacy these days. Today he is an 
established leader of a dynamic Big Band, 
a distinctive and innovative pianist, and an 
artist of such celebrity that his talents are 
praised throughout the world.
The night Count Basie performed at 
Carnegie Music Hall in Oakland, he was 
sounding the best I have ever heard him. 
Ive had the pleasures of listening to him 
this past summer at the Newport Jazz 
Festival in New Yorks Carnegie Hall, but 
for some reason, his band sounded more 
inspired this time in Pittsburgh. For a 
while, he performed a few songs along with 
the Ozanam Strings, a pop concert orches
tra consisting of the best young musicians 
of the Pittsburgh area. Then for the rest of 
the concert, it was all the Cpunt and his 
band. /
Basie swung mightily. Along with, his 
contagious tinkling on the piano, his ever 
popular rhythm section drove the band to 
a swingdom high. Included in his band 
personnel was the ancient rhythm guitarist 
Freddie Green (who Count Basie lovingly 
referred to as the dinosaur of the band), 
who has been with the band since 1936, 
Sonny Cohn, trumpeter and representative 
for the band since 1953, and new additions 
such as Chubby Jackson on the drums.
Among some of the songs the band per
formed were his famous Every Tub
Panaisse Stomp. Jive at Five, April in 
Paris (along with the Ozanam Strings) 
and lovely ballads such as Blue and 
Sentimental, Lullaby of Birdland and 
I Cant Get Started, a beautiful song 
done originally by the late Bunny Berigan, 
expertly recreated by Basies star trumpet
er, Sonny Cohn. Also included were rib 
tickling novelty acts, such as giving Freddie 
Green-his long deserved solo which con
sisted of a quick strum on his guitar. The 
best of these humorous act was drummer 
Chubby Jacksons extended solo which 
consisted of, 1) playing on his set furiously,
2) tossing and missing his sticks, 3) playing 
with his brushes, 4) then tossing those 
behind him, 5) and realizing he has no 
other instruments to play with, and 6) last 
and the best - ingeniously slapping his face 
in rhythm along with the band!
All in all, it was a great, and more impor
tantly, a very fun concert. I was lucky 
enough to get a personal interview with the 
Count that night, which will be broadcast
ed soon on WRCT-FM. Watch for it! (Ed. 
note: George Gee is Program Director of 
WRCT and the MC of The Make Believe 
Ballroom spotlighting the Big Band sounds 
of the 30s and 4Gs, a show at the station. 
He is known on the CMU campus as an 
authority on the subject of swing and Big 
Bands.)The Rose: Electrifying debut for Bette Midler
by Peter Klem
NOTE: The eclectic Dr. Peter Klem is a 
psychiatrist, a noted film reviewer, and the 
author of The Doctor's Bag, a syndi
cated column of medical advice. 
(CPS)Bette Midlers hallmark has always 
been her versatility. She can sing anything: 
nostalgic renditions of old chestnuts from 
the thirties and forties, early rock classics, 
ballads, blues, even country music.
And now shes tried something else: 
acting. As the lead in 20th Century Foxs 
The Rose, she plays a high-strung, self
destructive rock singer of the late sixties 
with such verve and intensity that she 
seems a shoo-in for a Oscar Nomination. 
But her performance is more than that. Its 
probably the most electrifying screen debut 
since Barbara Streisands in Funny Girl.
The happy fit of actress and role, 
though, almost never happened. Midler, for 
one, didnt think much of . the role when 
she First read it. I didnt like it particular
ly, she recalled at a recent interview in 
Los Angeles. I thought the language was 
too rough. Im very scholarly under all this, 
yknow?
Jazz concert
On Saturday, January 19, Weather Report 
sails into the Stanley Theater for an even
ing of electric jazz. The music starts at 
9PM, tickets are $7.75 and $8.75 and avail
able at all National Record Marts and the 
Stanley Theater box office.
Anyone who has ever seen and heard 
Weather Report in concert knows what 
an intense and involving experience it 
can be. Weather Report is one of the most 
celebrated instrumental outfits in progres
sive music plus a little extra.
In the course of the seventies, Weather 
Report has consistently made music that 
defies categorization and description while 
racking up honors and awards literally too 
numerouse to mention. The readers of 
Down Beat have named Weather Report 
band of the year seven years in a row and 
chosen five of their records Album of the 
Year. Similar honors have come from the 
likes of Playboy, Record World, Cash Box, 
Japan's Swing Journal and Europes 
Jazz Forum.
She wasnt too h^ppy about a role that 
could be so easily traced to its less-thansubtle similarity to the life of Janis Joplin. 
Although the filmmakers insist Joplins life 
was only the inspiration for a script about 
the stresses inherent to rock n roll super
stardom, theres enough onstage drinking 
and pathetic urges to please old, uncaring 
families in the film to keep the charges of 
sensationalist grave-robbing alive for a long 
time.
Midler says she ultimately accepted the 
role because it would be a personal depar
ture for her.
The thing Ive always tried to do in my
career is not to do the expected. As it turns 
cut, this was just as unexpected as anything 
could have possibly been. If I had played 
the Queen of Poland, it couldnt have been 
any more shocking to people who know__ _ *9me.
She figured that differences in vocal 
style and appearance would make it 
impossible to impersonate Joplin anyway. 
I really did try to stay away from 
[imitating Joplin] ...I was a big fan of 
Janiss, and I didnt think I could do justice 
to her memory.
If she wouldnt imitate Joplin, did she 
base the role on her own experiences?
I was never in as much pain as that 
character. Ive been in the soup, but Ive 
never' been so far down that I really 
couldnt see any way out.
Several scenes in the film, however, sure 
look like allusions to Midlers own life. In 
one sequence she visits a transvestite night 
club. She tears through a mens bathhouse 
looking for her boyfriend in another scene.
Midler, whose career took an improba
ble turn up while working at the Continen
tal Baths in New York, confesses she asked 
herself, Did they put that in there because 
they thought I would like that? The
continued on page 16
Pink Floyd's The Wall shows innovation
by David Kirby
Pink Floyd is an exception.
Since their formation 12 years ago, they 
havent given an inch to the rampant 
trendiness that characterized the music 
scene of the 1970s. No disco singles, no 
covers of All Along the Watchtower. 
Theyve never even been on the cover of 
the Rolling Stone. No surprise, they re not 
sexy.
Perhaps this self-exile from the scene 
relegates them to the status of one of 
those inaccessible, money-grubbing, ir
relevant rock and roll bands that New 
Wavers throw their rocks at. Their record 
sales over the years certainly would seem 
to qualify them.
Nonetheless, Pink Floyd never fails to 
startle the jaded listener. Their latest 
release, the two album set The Wall, 
represents their freshest and most ambi
tious music -since, and maybe including, 
Dark Side of the Moon. The bands 
bluesy arrangements and Roger Waters 
tape and sound effects have never sat so 
comfortably together or provided a more 
coherent musical statement.
Compositionally, The Wall represents a 
departure from the more extended instru
mental presentation of Wirh You Were 
Here and Animals. Each side is composed 
of short songs strung together by Waters 
eclectic experimentation with extraneous 
sounds and voices. At times, these sounds 
startle the listener by appearing to be part 
of the listeners environmentdoors,
voices and sighs seem to come from no
where. It gets spooky, if thats the right 
word.
The range of emotions on the record is 
huge. Rock and roll is well represented 
by Another Brick in the Wall, In the 
Flesh, and The Happiest Days of our 
Lives. Pathos and lonely desperation 
flow like muddy water in One of My 
Turns and Nobody Home, and 
youthful bravado speaks in cuts like 
Young Lust. Waters vocal talents are 
in abundant evidence here, and in the 
concluding song, The Trial, he pulls 
off a variety of characterizations that call 
to mind Peter Gabrials singing on The 
Battle of Epping Forest. Guitarist 
David Gilmour also puts in a fine perfor
mance on both guitar and vocals, especially 
on Hey You and Comfortably Numb. 
The Wall is essentially a concept 
album, incorporating a number of different 
themes pertaining to youth, urban society 
and the career of a rock star, but centraliz
ing the ideas on the story of a boy, rowing 
up in a world where he is expected to keep 
his ideas and his creativity to himself. 
The Wall is both a prop in this scenario 
and a metaphor for all the elements in his 
life that compromise his - individuality. 
Education, family life, and relationships 
are all just bricks in the wall.
Bob Ezrin, who produced Peter 
Gabrielss first album and a number of 
Alice Cooper records, was brought in to
Gilmour, and his influence has tightened 
the sound of the record and even added a 
couple of surprises, such as orchestral 
backing on three or four cuts. Solos are 
shorter and theres less of the etherial 
instrumentation that characterized the 
Floyds later works.
Pink Floyd will probably never live 
down Dark Side of the Dollar. I mean 
honestly, that record has remained in 
continued on page 14

---------------------------------------------------

LIMITED NUMBER 
AVAILABLE
1980 THISTLES
You can still order yours 
while they last at the 
Skibo Information Desk.
Great Moments in the history of hair
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech, a 
Stone Age plumber, discovers a 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
drain on a routine aqueduct re
pair job He calls the substance 
hair
"But we always thought this 
stuff was feathers", insists Kneg, 
his helper.
"Dummy", counters Blech. "If 
this was feathers, we'd be able to
fly like those pteradactyls".
With the discovery of hair, pluck
ing salons disappear. Philoso
phers have something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with. No 
appointments required. For gals 
and guys.
WiCilTidltSIPRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
HAIRCUTS COLORING PERMANENTS
(Wash-Cut-Blow)
1
. nn 237 Atwood Street _
1 00 Across the street from 2500
Oakland Post Office 
Mon. Tues. Wed. - 10-7 687-3300
Thurs. Fri. 10-9 NO
Sat. 9-4 UNISEX HAIR SALON APPOINTMENTS
MU. i1! IWBBBBMSUW TEST
FEAR AND LOATHING IN ELECTRONICS
You want to follow your academic career with challenging real-world problems but youre wary of Big Company Politics-and youve developed a healthy loathing of neckties and regimen. Is that whats bugging you Bunky? Well, cheer up and consider Megatest.In just four years Megatest has become a major innovator in LSI Test Equipment. We build computer systems with the power to test todays complex integrated circuits. Our machines test more microprocessors and EPROMS than anybody elses. Weve just introduced the worlds first commercially available Bubble Memory Test Systemand thats not allweve attained this standing in the industry while remaining a small, friendly, employee-owned company. Were young and we work like maniacs but we also devote a lot of time to having fun.
If you are anELECTRICAL ENGINEER (digital or analog)COMPUTER SCIENTIST OTHER DEGREES (with strong electronics background)
and would like to work in this soit of environment, please contact us:
MEGATEST CORPORATION2900 Patrick Henry Drive Santa Clara, CA 95050 (408) 988-1700
We will be on campus at the Career Planning Center on Jan. 18 dont bother to dress up for your interview.
Dolphy's The Berlin Concerts is a must for jazz lovers
Page 14TARTANJanuary 15, 1980------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
by James Patterson
During the late fifties and early sixties, 
jazz was being revolutionized by such 
greats as Ornette Coleman, Cecil Taylor, 
John Coltrane and an almost, but fortu
nately not forgotten man named Eric 
Dolphy.
The critical establishment termed the 
new music anti-Jazz. This is very puzz
ling when one considers that this New 
music dug deeply into the roots of jazz. 
That is, the new music looked to the blues 
and traditional African music for its influ
ences. Jazz took on a more human and 
personal quality, in particular, the very 
personal experience of the black man in 
America. The unfavorable opinions of the 
critics were typical of persons who knew 
very little about the music. Established 
musicians like Coltrane were able to sur
vive these attacks, but lesser known musi
cians like Dolphy (a close friend and
collaborator of Coltrane) found it very 
difficult to find work in the States. (Al
though it was born here, jazz has never 
acquired much respect). Faced with 
living here and not * working or moving 
to Europe, Dolphy moved where he could 
play his music to an open-minded audience.
A fine example of Dolphys music is 
The Berlin Concerts on Inner City Rec
ords. Dolphy is at his best playing flute, 
bass clarinet and alto saxophone. Side one 
is completely comprised of Hot House. 
The length of Dolphys improvisations 
formed the basis of some criticism. Many 
critics wondered if his long improvisations 
didnt wander off into boredom after run
ning out of new ideas. Dolphy responded 
by displaying that his improvisations would 
stop when his inspiration stopped. In Hot 
House, Dolphy paints a picture of real 
people, full of life and energy.
On Berlin Concerts, Dolphy plays
bass clarinet on two standards, When 
Lights are Low and Billy Holidays 
God Bless the Child. On Bless the 
Child he never quite plays the melody 
instead he plays with the melody using 
arpeggios to give very subtle hints.
Dolphy plays flute on Hi-Fly. Rajher 
than restrict himself to Western semi-tones 
Dolphy used quarter tones. Dolphy said 
he started playing this way because when 
he played at home in LA. the birds outside
would sing with him. Thus using quartertones, he was able to incorporate the 
sounds of birds in his playing. This natural
ly brought the rath of the almighty critics 
who rejected the use of this non-musical 
(i.e. non-Western) influence.
The Berlin Concerts is an excellent 
example of Dolphys work. I highly 
recommend this album to any openminded jazz lovers.
The Wall sparks of ambition
continued from page 13
Billboards top 200 selling albums since 
it was released, just about 300 weeks 
ago. But these guys arent hungry for press 
exposuretheyre notorious for avoiding 
interviews, and chances are any Pink 
Floyd fan could pass any or all the band 
members on the street and theyd remain 
unnoticed.
But, unlike many Dinosaur rock 
bands, they have integrity and imagination. 
The Wall is not hot on the heels of any
thing, and it hasnt got a beat you can eat 
to. Its angry and articulate, not mellow. 
Then again, wholl notice? Everyones 
too busy sitting on the Wall, tapping their 
feet to Heart of Glass.
THIS SPACE FOR RENT. 
Call Karen Stevens at (412) 
578-2111, 2113 or write to
TARTAN 
Box 17 
5020 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
ALONE AND PREGNANT?
A caring, confidential friend, 
LIFELINE. DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
562-0543. Free Pregnancy Testing. 
Evening Hours Available

---------------------------------------------------

January 15, 1980TARTANPage 15
Unusual material highlights WRCT's ''What's Your Beef?"
by Det Stims
There is a story they tell of an old man 
who lives in the labryrinth of closets and 
rooms adjoining WRCTs studio in Skibo. 
Late on Saturday night I was stumbling 
through those very closets when a thin 
gnarled hand gripped my sleeve. 
Immediate paranoic delusions raced 
through my brain screaming Danger! 
Danger! This semi-human mass of scar 
tissue with an ether soaked rag shoved up 
his left nostril is obviously out to kill 
you. Not being one to argue with my 
subconscious, I immediately set upon the 
man with a nearby broomstick. Within 
minutes he was'a semi-conscious lump of, 
blood and rags. Spitting bits of tooth out 
of his mouth he pleaded with me to hear 
his tale. After three hours of incoherent 
babbling, I finally learned his secret.
K. vs K. is hit
by Melody Mazzie
Dustin Hoffmann and Meryl Streep 
head the cast of Kramer vs. Kramer, a film 
which features both fine plot and'perfor
mances.
Hoffmann plays Ted Kramer, an adver
tising agent whose job takes priority over 
his family. Priority, that is, until his 
wife of eight years leaves him and his 
young son. The chances that Kramer must 
make in his life and personality are accen
tuated by Hoffmanns versatility as an 
actor. He performs his role with a poignant 
credulity that he has previously displayed 
in such films as Midnight Cowboy and Little 
Big Man.
Meryl Streep is Kramers wife, Joanna, 
who, after a fifteen month estrangement 
from her husband, returns to fight for cus
tody of their son. Streeps role in the film, 
despite the title, is that of a supporting 
actress. Her role requires a great deal of 
emotion, which Streep carries off without 
seeming insincere or hysterical. Seen in 
Manhattan, The Seduction of Joe Tynan 
and Holocaust, she has proven herself a 
strong contender for the April Academy 
Awards.
Without a doubt the most captivating 
figure in Kramer vs. Kramer is Justin Henry 
as six-year-old Billy. Hoffmann made 
comment on the Today show that he and 
Henry had an immediate rapport, which is 
increasingly evident throughout the movie. 
Their father-son scenes are the main focus 
of the plot and are exceptionally touching. 
Billys revelation to his father that he feels 
responsible for his mothers desertion is 
enough to> softer the hardest of hearts.
Perhaps the greatest asset of Kramer vs. 
Kramer is its ability to show the pain of 
divorce through the eyes of each family 
member without fixing the blame on any 
one person. The film makes a strong state
ment about family relationships and is con
sidered one of the top ten movies of 1979.
He was a former CMU student with 
good grades and a respectable position 
as host of WRCTs reknowned talk show 
Whats Your Beef Then a non-descript 
freshman named Mark Andrews was given 
a chance to substitute for him as host of 
the show. From there on it was a down
hill slide for both my friend and the show. 
Mark Andrews opened the show to calls 
from people on and off campus, who call 
in to argue with, support, and insult their 
fellow man. Assisting Andrews in his 
search for new lows was Michael West 
(formerly a writer for The New Price Is 
Right show) and a mysterious female, 
Molly. For the past year this triad has
JL
Keep Red Cross ready.
 TAKE THE NATIONAL CENTER FOR EDUCATIONAL TESTING
COURSE
offered in:ATLANTA
PHILADELPHIA
PITTSBURGH
WASHINGTON
A complet, comprehensive 
course developed by lawyers 
and educators to fully prepare 
you for the L.S.A.T.
Call toll-free:(800)223-2618
in New York Slate call (212) 247 2790for complete information, a free brochure and an invitation to a free introductory session.
The National Center for EducationTesting, 1271 Avenue of the Americas. Suite 777.New York. N Y. 10020.
Tt^Wn^ONFIDEN^j
provided CMU with some of its highest 
(and lowest) moments. Whats Your 
Beef? has help coordinate the infamous 
Morewood Power Moon, and its help 
spread the message of The Ministry of Hate 
along with the preachings of Radio Free 
Hammerschlag. It discovered 46 ways to 
eat Iranians, and exposed listeners to the
ravings of WRCTs Wizard and George 
Whos A Communist Gee. Whats 
Your Beer can be heard every Wednesday 
at 11 PM to midnite on WRCT 88.3. Even 
though host Mark Andrews is a diseased 
megalomaniac with delusions of gran
deur, the show is still invariably enter
taining and is highly recommended.
WHO NEEDS...
$7,400 MORE FOR COLLEGE?
You do? Then look no further.
Today's Army is now offering a 2-year 
enlistment program where you can get all of 
the advantages of current benefits in addition 
to $7,400.
All you have to do is qualify for the Army, 
get into the Veteran's Educational Assistance 
Program (VEAP), and get $5,400 plus a $2,000 
kicker under the VEAP bonus savings plan. 
That's where you put $75 a month in VEAP and 
receive $2 for every $1 you save.
Other advantageslearn discipline, 
responsibility, and leadershp, good starting 
pay, 30 days paid annual vacation, much more. 
For more information, Call 681-8590, in 
Oakland or stop by at Suite 213, 12 Federal 
Drive.
SKOWHEGAN
SCHOOL OF PAINTING & SCULPTURE 
SKOWHEGAN, MAINE
June 16-August 20, 1980
Resident Faculty
Fresco 
Visiting Artists
Cummings Lecturer
For Information
Sarah Canright Susan Hall 
John Moore Howardena Pindeil 
Jackie Winsor
George Schneeman
Joan Brown Lloyd McNeill 
John Bernard Myers Martin Puryear Susan Rothenberg 
Joel Shapiro
Linda NochHn
For Advanced Students Limited Scholarships Full 9 Week Session Only Deadline: February 28
Skowhegan329 East 68th Street New York, New York 10021 
212/861-9270
DAYTONA BEACH 
SPRING BREAKStarts every Sunday m March
 Six Day* on the Beach  Five 
Nights Ocean-front Lodging
 Two Poolside Bar-B-Que 
Buffett  Keg Parties  Cou
pon Book  Taxes A Tips
Bus Transportation
$179.50 _______
SKI BREAK
Killington Ski Week
 Lift tickets  Lodging  Meals
 Keg Party * Coupon Book
 Entertainment  Movie Night
 Social Hours  Taxes A Tips
$149.50 Quad
(Co-ordinators Wanted) 
Information 1-800-336-4630 
or write
Chesapeake. 4040 S 28th St. 
Arlington. Va. 22206
Reservation Deposit $40.00

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16TARTANJanuary 15, 1980
Up to 960 program steps or up to 100 memories plus 4 types of display testing, 10 user flags, 72 labels, and 6 levels of subroutines let the power of programming help you make short work of complex problems.Even with all the 175 keyboard functions and operations at your command, the TI-59 responds to simple AOS algebraic entry system control. So the calculator becomes part of the solution  not part of the problem.The TI-59 uses 'fisxas Instruments Solid State Software modules and comes with the Master Library module. You also get the added versatility and capability of magnetic cards to record your own programs. With them you can also tie into pro- grams on modules for extended programming routines.Youll get a copy of Personal Programming with your new TI-59 thatll help you get all the power we put into it. And the book can start you programming even if youve never tried it before.If youre starting on the way to a career in engineering get a calculator thatll help you get there. And get one thatll continue to serve you well on the job.See the whole line of advanced Texas Instruments calculators at your college bookstore or at other TI dealers everywhere.
U.S. suggested retail price.
of*Innovation
More films in store for Bette Midler
The Rose (Bette Midler)
continued from page 13
screenwriters assured her the scenes were in 
the script before Midler was even considered 
for the role.
And protests that her and Roses out
looks were different didnt prevent Midler 
from getting oddly emotional when dis
cussing the character. At one point in the 
interview, when she discussed Roses 
barely-filmed relationship with her parents, 
Midler became so tearful she couldnt con
tinue talking. _________________
She recovered quickly, though, saying, 
Im really tired, I need a year off. It 
was a line from the film.
Does she want to take that year off to 
go back home, to parade her success like 
Rose wanted to?
I used to want to go home a lot, and 
show em all, but then there came a point 
where I didnt need to. It didnt make any 
difference. They would always say I was
the same, no matter how many years 
would go by, no matter how much weight 
Id lost, no matter weird my hair was.
She wouldnt mind going back to live 
shows for awhile. It keeps me alive. Its 
great stimulation.
Therell be more films, too. Id like to 
do a comedy, a comedy with music. Id 
like to play someone who gets to smile a 
lot, and tell jokes, and wear scanty clothes, 
bleached blonde hair. ,
TARTAN GENERAL STAFF MEETING
IANUARY 23 6:30 PM WHERRETT ROOM
INCORPORATED11900 Texas instrumente incorporeo
Texas Instruments technology - bringing affordable electronics to your fingertips.
Mresi dnitmburnti
45692A
The more your courses approach the problems of the real world, the more you need a calculator thats already there.These two programmable calculators from Tfexas Instruments can take you from your engineering courses right into the ranks of professionals like the ones who created the complex programs to simplify and speed up scoring at the Winter Olympics.The TI Programmable 58C lets you spend your time learning concepts instead of working problems. $130*.Perhaps your current calculator can solve advanced engineering problems, but youll probably spend a lot of time doing it. With the TI-58Cs 480 program steps or up to 60 memories, plus 170 keyboard functions and operations, youll be amazed at just how much of the work the TI-58C will do for you.The TI-58C has a Constant Memory" feature that lets you lock a program in the machine  even when its turned off. You can program the calculator as you learn in class and use it later to review the concept and work the problems. You can store results or data in the calculator, even if you turn it off, for later use.The TI-58C will seem like more than a calculator  its computer-like capabilities let you design your own programs or use Texas Instruments unique plug-in Solid State Software1 modules with ready-touse programs. A Master Library module (included with the calculator) has 25 basic programs in math, statistics, and other areas of general interest. Twelve optional library modules include programs on applied statistics, advanced mathematical routines, electrical engineering, business decisions, and much more.With all of its capabilities and functions the TI-58C is simple to operate using TIs AOS algebraic operating system. The AOS entry system lets you enter problems the way they are written  from left to rightand handles up to 9 levels of parentheses in accordance with the rules of algebraic hierarchy.With the TI-58C youll also get a copy of Personal Programming, an owners manual thatll help get you started in programming  even if youve never programmed before.The TI Programmable 59 goes from -engineering to the Winter Olympics.$300*.The reason the Winter Olympics chose the TI-59 for verifying scoring results at many events is the same reason it can help you get all you can from your coursesversatility.

---------------------------------------------------

grabbing a rebound, tp give CMU the leadThroughout the .first half the Tartans
XCU FG FT-A Pts
Colombo 8 2-2 18
McCaffrey 8 0-0 16
DiMattio 2 0-0 4
Kunzen 0 0-0 0
Brown 7 2-2. 16
Henn 5 1-2 11
Hanzlick 2 2-2 6
Nelson 0 2-3 2
Totals 32 9-11 73
Totals
HIRAM
B. Ellis
Dustman
Jackson
Shivers
Maire
Termini
Djfkes
CMU
Hobart
Hufnagel
Hofmeister
Donahoe
DeFilippo
Belechak
Novak
Totals
Tartans raise conference record to 2 wins, no losses
Mariano DeFilippo slides beneath a Hiram defender en route to a reverse lay up.
by Denny Postufka
The Tartans started off the 1980 PAC-8 
campaign on the right foot by slipping past 
John Carroll 75-73 last Wednesday night 
and breezing by Hiram on Saturday by a 
score of 59-46.
A 25 foot jumper by Sophomore guard 
Dan Donahoe with five seconds remaining 
put the Tartans ahead for good in the con
ference opener against John Carroll. It was 
an important win for CMU because of their 
difficulty in winning on the road in the 
PAC-8, especially at John Carroll where the 
Blue Streaks are notorious for their peren
nial hnme-rnnldna officials
trailed by margins of two to four points. 
Larry Hufnagel and Dave Hofmeister were 
hounded with early foul trouble and the 
halftime scoreboard read 46-38 in favor 
of JCU.
The Blue Streaks upped their lead to as 
many as twelve points, 60-48, early in the 
second half. Then it was the hot hand of 
Greg Novak coming off the bench, along 
with the outside shooting of Mariano 
DeFilippo, that brought the Tartans back 
to within striking range. A few key lay-ups 
by Larry Hufnagel and a couple galactic 
aerials by Dan Donahoe tied the game; 
then Novak netted a second effort after
PAC-8 promises intensity
The following Presidents A thletic Con
ference 1979-80 basketball prospectus was 
written by Ed Farrell, Sports information 
director for the PAC.
If nothing else, one thing that can be as
sured when assessing the 1979-80 collegiate 
basketball season thus far, is the fact that 
intense competition reigns supreme.
In every corner of the country, from the 
Big Ten, Souteastern and Atlantic Coast 
conferences, to the Southwest, Western 
Athletic and Pacific-10 loops, competitive
ness is the keynote, with virtually every 
contest having the aura of the NCAA 
championship game.
Though in microcosmbut far from 
lacking in intensitykeen competition will 
also mark the 79-80 season in the Presi
dents Athletic Conference.
No less than five of the eight PAC-8 
clubs have a legitimate chance to claim the 
loops title toga, with the other trio of 
contingents possessing the ability to play a 
dangerous spoilers role.
Adding credence to the theory that this 
years PAC-8 roundball race will be a 
knock-down, drag-out brawl, is the fact 
that 30 starters from the78-79 hardwood 
wars will return to the battle this season.
However, before the dust settles by the 
end of February, there* is little doubt that 
the ultimate winner in 79-80 will have to 
wrestle the crown from defending-titlist 
Allegheny.
The Gators, 16-8 overall and 11-3 in the 
loop a year ago, did not lose a single indi
vidual to graduation a year ago, making the 
continued on page 18
Buddy Hobart (no. 20) converts a tip in the midst
for the first time 72-70.
A few minutes later with the game tied 
at 73-73, CMU grabbed a rebound and 
took time out with 1:19 remaining. Coach 
Dave Maloney put the four corners offense 
in tact and the Tartans froze the ball until 
calling another time out with 14 seconds 
remaining. Maloney instructed his troops 
to work for the last shot and to look for 
Donahoe to take the jumper if open. Dan 
did just that as he pumped away from his 
guard position to send the Tartans home
ward bound with victory number one.
Coach Maloney said The key factors 
in the victory were good depth on the 
bench and better defense in the second 
half. Both of these statements proved to 
be valid as CMU played much better de
fense in the second half, giving up 27 
second half points as opposed to 46 in the 
opening twenty minutes. The Tartans did 
indeed have bench depth. With Joe Bel
echak sidelined with an ankle injury, 
which he acquired in the LaRoche game, 
and with Hufnagel and Hofmeister on the 
bench with foul trouble, Maloney called 
on Sophomores Greg Novak and John 
Lewis to help carry the load. Novak 
answered with a career high 17 point per
formance, going 8 for 11 from the field, 
and Lewis responded with a blocked shot 
and two steals late in the game.
Mariano DeFilippo took game scoring 
honors with 20 tallies and also addejl 14 
assists while Buddy Hobart led all rebound
ers with 8. Team scoring leader Larry Huf
nagel was held to 12 points. When asked 
about Huffys low scoring output, Maloney 
replied, They were playing him tough 
underneath and it was hard for him to 
square around when he had the ball with 
his back to the hoop. John Carroll was 
led by Freshman John Colombo who fired 
in 18 points.
Despite sluggish offense in the first 
portion of the second half, CMU was able 
to hang on and defeat the Hiram Terriers
of Hiram coverage.
in a 59-46 low scoring affair which upped 
the Tartans conference record to 2-0.
The Tartans jumped out to a 15-6 lead 
early in the first half, but a few 
buckets by the Terriers after several CMU 
turnovers brought Hiram to within two 
points. But all-conferences senior Larry 
Hufnagel who led all scorers with 16 
points, was able to free himself underneath 
several times and the Tartans increased 
their lead to 9 at the halfway mark, 31-22.
CMU began slow in the second half, 
scoring only four points the first ten min
utes. Hiram, However, could not take 
the lead, the closet deficit being 33-30. 
The Tartans then got a few hoops from 
Huffy, Buddy Hobart and Joe Belechak to 
build a lead of 49-34, and Coach Maloney 
once again sent the white and maroon 
into the four corners offense (which is in 
and of itself a defense) with 5:30 remain
ing. The ballhandling of DeFilippo and 
Donahoe helped the Tartans run the offen
se to perfection. However, the big guns 
down the wire were Buddy Hobart, who 
hit a few lay-ups coming off the four corn
ers, and Larry Hufnagel who sparked the 
400 some spectators and sent the Terriers 
back into their dog houses with a forceful 
slam-dunk.
Coach Maloney stated, Good defense 
is what keyed the victory, but if we want 
to continue to be contenders in the PAC-8 
we must start hitting our free throws. 
The Tartans hit only 9 of 20 from the 
charity stripe on Saturday and only 3 of 10 
on Wednesday at John Carroll.
Buddy Hobart added 14 tallies for the 
Tartan hoopsters and Dave Hofmeister 
grabbed 12 rebounds. For the second con
secutive game CMU shot an outstanding 
53% from the field.
The Tartans will host Thiel tomorrow 
night at 8:00 and will then travel to 
Case Western Reserve on Saturday for 
their fourth conference match-up.
Icemen regroup for 1980
by Zip
The CMU Tartans skated to a 1-2 winloss record in the first half of their season, 
losing to Allegheny College and crosstown 
powerhouse Duquesne, but blasting St. 
Vincent College, 8 to 2.
Many changes have been made in pre
paration for the remainder of the season, 
such as the return of veterans Bill Oakley, 
Tom Grimm, Joe Chavez, Dave Olisar and 
Damien Burke. In addition, rookie for
wards Chris Fromme and Steve Farrell 
have started skating with the team. Fiveyear high scorer Mark Jonatti has hung up 
his skates and moved into an assistant 
coaching position. Finally, defensemen 
Joe ONeill has taken the helm as the 
Tartans Captain.
Coach Donny McDade has 20 regular 
season games remaining in which he 
promises to turn the Tartans into a win
ning club. The Tartans will face off against 
Allegheny College in their first home game 
at the Civic Arena cm Jan. 20. The puck 
drops at 2 PM. The Tartan urges the CMU 
c <mmunity to support the hockey team.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-TARTAN-January 15,1980
Allegheny, CMU, Bethany favorites in PAC-8 basketball
continued from page 17
prospect for first-year mentor John Reynders extremely bright.
First-team All-PAC-8 selections from 
78-79 in 6-7 center Eric Lindberg and 
5-11 point guard Jim Wheeler make the 
Gators-4.0 in the early-season going prior 
to an appearance in the Mt. Union Invita
tionalthe likely favorites.
Averaging 18.9 and 18.0 points/game 
respectively a year ago versus circuit com
petition, Wheeler and Lindberg are both on 
the brink of surpassing the coveted 1,000- 
point plateau in their respective AC ca
reers.
Add 6-6 power forward and honorable-mention choice Dave Contardi, 6-5 
running-mate Darryl Dawson, and 6-2 
guard and tri-captain Craig Jones, ahd 
Reynders has inherited last years entire 
starting quintet, not to mention a talented 
supporting cast, as he attempts to lead the 
Gators to the third PAC-8 basketball title 
in school history.
Although Allegheny had the best quin
tet a year ago, there was little doubt in the 
minds of the loops coaches who the best 
individual was.
The bridesmaid of the PAC-8 each of 
the last two seasons, Carnegie-Mellon, will 
be pushing for a return to its heyday of 
76-77 when the club captured the circuit 
title, and parlaying that surge will be 6-5 
Larry Hufnagel.
In addtion to pacing the loop in scoring 
a year ago with 21.4 points/game, Hufnagel 
was fifth in rebounding (9.2), third in field 
goal percentage (60.0), and tenth in free 
throw percentage (76.0) en route to win
ning the leagues Most Valuable Player 
award as well as Academic All-America 
laurels.
However, the Tartans of coach Dave Ma
loney, 39-17 during his four previous PAC8 season at the helm of the Plaid, will be 
far from a one-man show, aslike Alle
ghenythe Pittsburgh-based club will field 
its entire starting five from last season.
Now the world is aware of what 
Carnegie-Mellon University fans have 
known for the past four years - that 
Chuck Klausing is the best small college 
coach in the country.
ABC-TV named Klausing the Coach 
of the Year in NCAA Division III for 
1979. The announcement was made 
before a national television audience 
at halftime of the Gator Bowl on 
December 29.
Point guard Mariano DehHippo, thougn 
5-8, was fourth in assists (5.4) and sixth 
in free throw percentage (82.0) last year, 
will team with 6-2 swing-man Joe Belechak, 6-2 small forward Buddy Hobart, 
and 6-6 Dave Hofmeister in the middle, to 
lead the defending top-ranked defensive 
club (69.2 points/game allowed) from 78- 
79, 3-3 through December.
In his three previous campaigns as the 
maestro of the Bethany cage orchestra, Jim 
Dafler has seen it all.
From the nightmare of a 3-18 first year 
to an 18-5 PAC-8 title-winning sophomore 
season, Dafler watched his third Bison con
tingent fall just short of further honors in 
78-79 as the club ended with a 9-5 confer
ence ledger and a 13.8 overall mark.
This season? Even Dafler may not be 
able to predict how his Bisons will fare, but 
the return of three starters, including 6-6 
All-PAC-8 forward Kendall Hayes (15.4 
points, 11.0 rebounds) and another trium
virate of letter-men are cause for optimism.
Jim Paige, a 64 forward, and Fred 
Gongola, a 6-2 guard, will join Hayes as the 
other starting returnees with the latter 
bringing back a 15.3 loop scoring average 
as well as a 78.9 free throw percentages.
Prior to an appearance in the Salem 
Invitational, Dafler & Co., predictablyor 
should it be unpredictablyhad a 3.2 log.
Perhaps the biggest news out of coach 
John Unices Washington & Jefferson camp 
is not necessarily who has returned, but 
rather who has LEFT.
Roger Raybuck, a 64 second-team AllPAC-8 forward from a year ago, decided to 
accept an accounting internship three 
games into the present season, leaving 
Unice with the prospect of attempting to 
fill the void of 14.5 points and 10.5 re
bounds per loop game.
Fortunately, the starting backcourt of 
second-team All-PAC-8 5-10 Mike Pratt 
(14.1 points, 4.6 assists) and 5-11 Dave 
Westphalthe loops leading playmaker, 
who doled out 6.6 scores/game a year,ago
Also receiving Coach of the Year honors 
were Florida State Head Coach Bobby 
Bowden (Division I) and Deleware Head 
Coach Tubby Raymong (Division II).
Klausing led the CMU Tartans this 
season to a perfect 9-0-0 regular season 
record, a third straight PresidentsAthletic 
Conference championship, and a return 
trip to the Division III play-offs where - 
for the second consecutive year -- the 
Tartans advanced to the semifinal round
in the PAC-8will return, along with 6-2 
sharp-shooter Dave Damico, a PAC-8 
Player of the Week and honorablemention selection who led the Prexies with16.0 points per loop contest. Bob Yakovac, ' 
6-5, is the returning pivot.
Although 0-3 in the early stages of the 
campaign, Unice is hoping that an appear
ance in the Muskingum Invitational will 
ready his Raybuck-less Prexies for loop 
play.
The Dean of PAC-8 roundball coach
es is Hiram mentor Bill Hollinger, and 
it can be assured that the veteran taskmas
ter has his sights set on leading the Terriers 
back to the glory days of the early 70s 
when HC claimed four of the first five cage 
titles of the decade.,
Honorable-mention All-PAC-8 guard 
Brad Ellis, a 6-0 sharpshooter who ended 
third in the loop in scoring with a 19.1 
points/game mark, while placing as runnerup in free throw percentage (88.8) will lead 
the Pups, while backcourt mate Charles 
Hill, another six-footer, also returns.
Front-line returnees whom Hollinger 
will be counting upon to clean the glass 
- will be the twosome of 6-5 Kevin Jackson 
and <6-3 Bill Shivers. Jackson tallied 8.0 
caroms/game versus PAC-8 opponents a 
year ago, though Shivers emerged as the 
leading Terrier rebounder.
Like Allegheny, Hiram partook in the 
Mt. Union Invitational, though the Terri
ers entered the tourney with a 1-3 ledger, 
after a 7-7 league, 9-12 overall 78-79 
mark.
John Carroll coach Sam Milanovich 
went with the kiddy corps* a year ago 
with the result being a 4-10 loop and 6-16 
overall finish. This,year, Milanovich is 
hoping that the experience gained from the 
78-79 wars will reap benefits in 79-80.
Leading boardman Jeff Robertson, a 6-8 
pivot, averaged 8.0 PAC-8 rebounds, and 
will once again be joined by front-line 
mates Paul Kunzen and Rick DiMattio, 6-5
before being eliminated.
In addition, Carnegie-Mellon received 
the Lambert Bowl, which is awarded to the 
top small college team in the East as 
chosen through the regular season by a 
panel of sportswriters.
The Tartans finished the season at 10-1 - 
0. Klausing, three-time PAC Coach of the 
Year, has a four-year record at CMU of 
33-5-1.
and 6-3 respectively, while backcourt 
experience will come trom twins Tim and 
Tom Deighan, both of whom are 6-2.
The missing link in the scheme of things 
for Thiel and fifth-year mentor John Dickason will be the Big man.
- Forwards Paul OBrien and Tom Costo, 
both 64 return as the starters of the front
line, with OBrien being an honorable 
mention All-PAC-8 choice after tallying 
^16.6 points/game a year ago.
Dickasons backcourt of 5-9 Joe Scarpitti and 5-10 Mark Benedettothe latter 
who dished out 5.0 assists/game and was a 
Player of the Week selectionalso re
turns for the Tomcats, 3-11 in the PAC-8 
and 3-18 overall in 78-79, who look with 
eagerness to the start of league play after 
emerging v^yiless in six non-league starts.
Veteran Case Western Reserve mentor 
Bill Sudeck also has high hopes after fin
ishing tied witft Thiel for the bottom of 
the PAC-8 totem pole with a 3-1*1 mark 
last year.
Sudecks greatest cause for optimism as 
he prepares for the new circuit season is 
5-10 guard Ken Jackson, who, as a frosh a 
year ago, scored 17.2 points and fed 
teammates for 3.9 scores per league game 
while shooting at an 84.0 clip from the 
charity stripe.
Shooting forward Dean Tsipis at 6-3 
is the lone returning starter to join with 
Jackson for Sudeck, who*is hoping some 
talented newcomers and part-time perfor
mers from 78-79 can contribute to a Spar
tan turnabout after a 5-17 overall mark. 
Entering its third tournament of the sea
son , Sudeck & Co. stood at 1 -3.
With a wealth of returning talent and 
fierce competitive rivalries ear-marking the 
circuit throughout, the 1979-80 Presi
dents Athletic Conference basketball sea
sonlike its Big-time counterparts across 
the nationwill be challenging for its com
petitors, while providing excitement for its 
spectators.
the year'
CMU, under fourth-year head Coach 
Chuck Klausing, closed the season at 10-1, 
and ranked among the top four Division III 
teams nationally. The Tartans 9-0 regular 
season record marked the first unbeaten, 
untied performance by a football team in 
the schools history, and earned CMU the 
Lambert Bowl, symbolic of eastern small 
college supremacy.
ABC-TV names Klausing NCAA division III 'Coach of
Coach Chuck Klausing has compiled a four 
year record at CMU of 33-5-1 and collected three 
PAC Coach of the year titles. He coached CMU 
to it's first undefeated, untied regular season and 
for his efforts was named ABCTV's Division-III 
"Coach of the Year". Under his leadership <he 
Tartans earned the coveted Lambert Bowl for 
small college supremacy in the East. He may re
turn to coach the Tartans for the 198081 
season.
GET YOUR CAREER OFF TO A FLYING START
It takes four years to get a college degree. How long will it take you to get a good job?If you haven't settled on a company or corporation yet. why not get your executive career off to a flying start as a pilot or navigator in the United States AC Force? It's the finest flight program in the world, the pay is excellent, and you'll enjoy the prestige that goes with the silver wings of an Air Force pilot or navigator.
of the finest opportunities in the nation, place to gain executive experience dollar responsibility Find out today the Air Force flight program. Contact
TALTON: 644-2705
A great way of Me

---------------------------------------------------

January 15, 1980TARTANPage 19
When does the i 
training stop and 
the doing start?
At Scott, we believe that the best training s
we can give you is experience in putting your 
ideas to work Since we know that personal l|
growth is your goal, achievement ot that goal is 'II
realized through doing Experience comes from |
doingputting your ideas to work, enjoying respon-1 
sibility. and accepting accountability
Each year, as determined, committed college 
grads join us. they bring new talents with them We 
put these talents to the test immediately and willingly 
accept then challenges
Because we recognize individual differences, 
our approach is to build on your existing skillsto 
enable you to start doing
When does the training stop'7 It never does 
Scott Paper Company is an equal opportunity 
employer, m/f i
Contact your placement office fot informationSCOTT
IRON CITYSCHLITZBUDSCHMIDTS CHAMPALE STROHS GENESEE ROLLING ROCK SCHLITZ MALT BALLANTINE ALE MILLER LIGHT MICHELOB PABST MILLER COLT 45GENESEE CREAM ALE BUSCHSCHLITZ LIGHT
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak Subs
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM - 2 AM 
QUARTS - MUGS  PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 DIFFERENT DRAFT BEERS
MILLERS. COLT 45. MOL SON ALE. LOWENSRAU DARK STROMS HEINCKCN LIGHT One Hitler ent 16 cl 6 pk featured eacti *eek 
SCHLITZ  PABST 
SCHLITZ MALT  STROHS * ROLLING ROCK
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO ADVER
TIZE OUR LOW BEER PRICES SPECIALTY ITEMS 
FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES  PIZZA SERVED TILL 3 AM 
HOT DOGS CHOICE OF 12 DIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 
35 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES 
-------------- IMPORTS -----------------
HOT DOG SHOPS, INC
621-7388 Am 621-1185
BASS ALE England DORT HANSA Germany SAM MIGUEL PMNpmes SPATENBRAU Germany ST PAUU GIRL Germany PILSNER URQUELLCiecti GUINESS STOUT Ireland DAS XX EQUIS Mexico WURZ BURGER Germany HARP LAGER Ireland LOWENBRAU Germany O'KEEFE ALE Canada DINKEL ACKER Germany TECATE Mexico ISENBECK W Germany IRYSTALL Italy MACKESON England
 KIRIN Japan PERONI Italy RIGNES Norway BECKS Germany HOFBRAU Germany ZYWIEC Po*nd 
KRAKUS Poland SUPERIOR Mexico FOSI fcRS Auetra* HEINEKEN Hotand MOLSON ALE Canada PAULANER Germany GOSSER Austria TANKARD London UNION W Germany PALE ALE Londori DINKEL Germany WARFTEINEL Germeny
3901 FORBES AV. (OAKLAND) PGH. PA 15213
Injuries plague women's BB
by Skip Thrope
WHEN THE GOIN GETS TOUGH, 
THE TOUGH GET GOING or NO 
PLACE TO GO BUT UP! are the senti
ments felt by this years womens basketbaD team. Plagued by a tremendous amount 
of injuries and illness at the start of the 
season, the Tartans have suffered 4 consec
utive losses. Promising freshmen Debbie 
Durr, a scholar athlete from Maryland, and 
Val Brandt, a former standout at Deer 
Lakes, have both been sidelined for an ex
tended period of time by various injuries 
and illnesses.
The most damaging loss came in a 
conference game against Bethany on 
Tuesday night Dec. 11,1979. Terry 
Preskar, a senior point guard and the back
bone of this Tartan team, went down with 
a serious knee injury - CMU lost a great deal 
of experience and skill at the point position. This was evident on Saturday when 
the Tartans dropped their fourth straight 
game to Point Park. The final score was 
72-54.
CMU was consistently beaten down the 
court on the last break. The offense con
tinues to slowly improve each game but the 
problem for Tartans lies in their defense. 
Many players are being shuffled around to 
compensate for the injured starters. Point 
Park had little height advantage over CMU 
but proved quicker on defense. Kassie 
Segmiller was high scorer with 22 points 
followed by Lorainne Stapoli with 14 and 
Debbie Durr with 8 points.
The Tartans will be looking for their 
first victory when they hostv Theil tomor
row night at 6 PM. On Saturday the team 
travels to Seton Hill for a tough confer
ence game.
Kennedy, Sunseri honored
The -Carnegie-Mellon University Tartans, 
semifinalists in the NCAA Division III foot
ball championship play-offs, have named 
seniors Gusty Sunseri and Bob Kennedy 
as their Most Valuable Players in 1979.
Kennedy, a 6-3, 206-lb. quarterback 
from Central Catholic High School 
(Pittsburgh, Pa.), completed 67 of 121 
passes for 1059 yards and 10 touchdowns 
while finishing second in rushing among 
the Tartans with 466 yards and six TDs. 
Kennedys 167.2 total yards per game 
average ranked him as one of the top ten 
offensive threats in Division III through 
most of the season.
For his efforts, Kennedy was chosen for 
the second team of both the Presidents 
Athletic Conference All-League team and 
the Pittsburgh Press All-District squad. 
Fourth in the PAC in passing and fifth in 
rushing, Kennedy was also the leagues 
Player of the Week selection for hisSunseri earns NCAA award
' Gusty Sunseri, a four-year letterman for 
the Carnegie-Mellon University team, has 
been named the recipient of a $2,000 
National Collegiate Athletic Association 
scholarship for postgraduate study, the 
NCAA announced on December 30.
Sunseri, a 5-11, 185-lb safety, spear
headed a defense which led the nations 
small colleges in fewest points allowed 
(4.9 per game.) The Tartan co-captain was 
the team leader in interceptions and punt 
return yardage and finished second in 
tackles.
Among the honors he has accrued this 
season are: PresidentsAthletic Conference 
All-League First Team and Player of the 
WeeJc; New York Times All-East Team; 
College Sports Information Directors of 
America (CoSIDA) First Team AllAmerica; Pittsburgh Press All-District 
Squad; Associated Press Honorable Men
tion All-America; and Carnegie-Mellon 
Defensive Most Valuable Player.
Academically, Sunseri maintains a 3.4 
grade point average while majoring in 
Administration and Management Science 
and Economics. He has represented CMU 
at a number of academic conferences, 
including the Rising Tide Conference 
sponsored by the Edison Foundation at 
Vanderbilt University (1978) and a 
Conference sponsored by Princeton Uni
versity entitled Business-Government 
Conflict or Cooperation.
A representative to the Student Senate 
and a member of the Academic Attairs 
Committee, Sunseri is also co-director ot 
(MU's Law Club and hopes to pursue a 
career in law.
performance in CMUs conference seasonopener against Hiram on September 22.
Sunseri, who co-captains the Tartans 
along with Kennedy, was named to the 
first team Of both the All-PAC and Press 
All-District team.
A 5-11, 185-lb. defensive back, Sunseri 
spearheaded a defensive unit which led 
the nations small colleges in preventing 
the score. Sunseri, who also graduated 
from Central Catholic, led the Tartans in 
interceptions and punt return yardage, and 
finished second in tackles.
Sunseri has also been named the recip
ient of a $2,000 NCAA scholarship for 
postgraduate study. See article below.
photo by Larry Duffee

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20TARTANJanuary 15, 1980
IM department gears up for the new year in sports
by Leslie Weiser
The intramural department is back 
from vacation and rarin to go! Get 
psyched, CMU, for a fun filled spring 
semester of sports and friendly compet
ition. Several sports have entries due 
Tuesday, January 15 at 4:30 PM in the 
intramural office, room 104 Gym. They 
are Handball, with a roster minimum of 
4 and maximum of 8; Bridge, with a roster 
minimun of 4 and maximum of 8; and 
Basketball. Entry forms for basketball may 
be picked up on the IM bulletin board 
or in room 104 Gym.
Also due January 15 is Backgammon. 
The commissioner is Cathy Jensen, phone 
6874684. Game schedules will be pasted 
by Friday, January 18, and League play 
will begin the week of January 21st.
Do you have a basketball Jones? Get
a basketball team together for the intra
mural basketball league. To sign your team 
up for league play, you should follow the 
procedure below:
1. Obtain an entry sheet from the 
intramural office - room 104 Gym.
2. Note the type of league: A. Major - 
tough ball; B.Intermediate - good 
ball; C. Minor - for fun; D. Womens.
3. List game official.
4. List the team manager and his/her 
phone number.
5. Turn in a forfeit fee of $2.50.
6. Turn in the entry blank to the intra
mural office before January 15.
The commissioners for IM Basketball 
are: Bob Dudas overall commissioner - 
phone 681-1436; Ralph David and Ken 
Gustafson - major league commissioners - 
phone 578-4271; Mark Johnson - inter
mediate league commissioner - phone 
578-4626; and Wes Seeley - minor league 
commissioner - phone 578-4004.
There will be a special Women Only 
Basketball League, so theres no need for 
the women of CMU to be intimidated by 
all those great guy basketball players. 
There are probably just as many great girl 
basketball players, so dont be shy - sign 
up your team today! The entries are due 
January 15 at 4:30 PM in room 104 Gym. 
The commissioner is Mariano De Filippo, 
Flip; hes in room 102 Donner - phone 
578-4002. Join in the fun of I.M. sports!
There will be an important Basketball
I1

:
:





Campus InterviewsTI Central Research Laboratories
What You Need
You should have an MS or 
PhD degree in one of the 
following:
Chemistry 
Computer Science 
Electrical Engineering
 What We Do
Materials Science 
Chemical Engineering 
Physics
Tls five Central Research Laboratories ensure the timely availability of technologies 
required by present and future business opportunities.
This involves (1) discovering, identifying and evaluating new scientific phenomena likely to 
generate inventions and new products, and (2) determining and developing the technolo
gies required for new business opportunities.
The five facilities include:
The Computer Science Laboratory 
The VLSI Laboratory
The Materials Science Laboratory 
The Systems Components Laboratory 
The Interface Technology Laboratory
Materials Preparation/ 
Crystal Growth 
Materials Characterization 
Component Development, 
including:
Charge Coupled 
Devices 
Magnetic Bubbles 
Surface Acoustic Wave 
Devices 
Infrared Sensors
Areas off Activity
Semiconductor Logic 
and Memory Devices 
Liquid Crystal and 
Electrochromic 
Displays 
Microwave Devices 
Process Development, 
including:
Electron Beam 
Patterning
Live in Dallas
X-ray Lithography 
Plasma Processing, 
including:
Chemical Vapor 
Deposition 
Ion Implantation 
Systems Development 
Computer Systems 
Speech Systems 
Memory Systems
Enjoy the facilities afforded by the countrys 8th largest city, including 20 colleges and an 
abundance of entertainment. At the same time, take advantage of Dallas low cost of living 
and no state income tax.
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
January 30
If unable to interview at this time, send your resume in confidence to: Helen Meltzer/P. O. 
Box 225474, M.S. 217/Dallas, TX 75265.
65TAR N1RDavi51DR
s
INCORPORATED
An equal opportunity employer M/F
Rules Clinic on Wednesday, January 16 at 
4:30 PM in the main Gym. Each team must 
have a representative at this important 
clinic. Games will begin January 17. Please 
get your team signed up - today!
Sports coming up with entries due 
January 24 are Wrestling and Water 
Basketball.
Board
LM. Board Meeting 
Thursday, January 17 
12:30 PM Rm. 104 Gym 
Members please make every
it
effort to attend this important meeting.
IM's growing
by Joe Kozak
Under the direction of Earl J. Birdy, 
CMU Intramural sports grew significantly 
in the period 1970-79. In 1970, 1800 indi
viduals participated in 29 sports^by the end 
of the decade, participation had grown to 
2850 individuals in 33 sports, an impres
sive accomplishment!
The changing times saw racquetball and 
backgammon added as new sports, while 
the womens participation in the IM pro
gram skyrocketed. Womens sports grew 
and more women participated alongside 
men in all sports. ^
The biggest setback to the IM program 
began in 1975 when IM sports lost a large 
amount of facility time to the rejuvenated 
varsity sports program. IM football players, 
who once played at 4:30 and 6:30 PM 
found themselves taking the field at 8:30 
and 9:45 at night under lights that are far 
from adequate. IM basketball began play
ing games until 11:30, even on Friday 
nights! Despite these adverse conditions, 
the IM program continued to grow.
The most annoying debacle of all oc
curred in the spring of 1977 when the IM 
softball season was cut short because the 
school decided to grade and reseed the IM 
field. The IM players finished the season by 
the day requested, but the field was not 
touched by the grounds crew until a month 
later.
The problem of securing sufficient ath
letic facilites for IM and varsity sports still 
remains, it will undoubtedly be the major 
problem of the 80s. This is a plea to the 
administration: please look at this problem 
and try to do something!
The following lists show the champions 
of the five major sports in the 70s. The 
myth of fraternity dominance in IM sports 
seems to hold true only in touch football, 
as it is quite clear that other sports are 
dominated by independent and grad teams.
Touch Football
1970 PIKA beat Beta
1971 PIKA beat S & P
1972 PIKA beat Wild Bunch
1973 Wild Bunch beat Beta
1974 PIKA beat Beta
1975 Beta beat PIKA
1976 PIKA beat Coaches All-Stars
1977 ATO beat Coaches All-Stars
continued on page 21
Playing Russian Roulette 
with Pregnancy?.
Confidential birth control 
services for men & women
THE PITTSBURGH FREE CLINIC
Call: 661-5424
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

January 15, 1980TARTANPage 21
Earl J. Birdy prepares for '80 IM sports season
continued from page 20 1Q7<; *11  i-r-xr* 1Q77 cad i-Voicontinued from page 201975
1978PIKA beat SAE1976
1979The Haven beat Coaches All-Stars1977
1978
Soccer1979
1970Mudge Rebels beat Old Man
1971Mudge Rebels beat Mag-B
1972GSIA beat Powderkegs19701973SAE beat Powderkegs19711974Coaches All-Stars beat TTT19721975Coaches All-Stars beat TTT19731976Coaches All-Stars beat Beta19741977PKT-A beat the Plumbers19751978Ilkers Angels beat PKT19761979Bootstraps beat the Rowdies ;1977
1978Volleyball19791970Mudge beat Beta
1971SAE beat Beta
1972SAE_
1973SAE beat the Muthers1970
1974SAE beat FEVA1971
Coaches All-Stars beat FEVA 
Coaches All-Stars beat SAE 
Coaches All-Stars beat Schlag 
Coaches All-Stars beat SAE 
Coaches All-Stars beat DU
Basketball
E.J. Bruins beat SN
S&P
S&P
S&P beat Radios Raiders 
Wild Bunch beat ATO 
S&P beat ATO 
ATO beat Black Heat 
Reality
Celtics beat Reality 
GSIA beat Blue Bombers
Softball
Old Man beat EJ.s 
ATO
1972 S&P
1973 Beat beat PKT
1974 Gommies Commies beat Wild B.
1975 Oakland Dolphins beat PKT
1976 ATO-A beat Beta
1977 MDBC beat Beta
1978 Beta beat MDBC
1979 Coaches All-Stars beat Beta
Also, the 1979 IM All-School team for 
six-man volleyball was recently released. 
Tied for Most Valuable Players wer Kris 
Scigliano (ICAL) and Mike Pochan (AllStars). First-team spikers were Mike 
Parris (DU), Pochan (CAS), Paul 
Follansbee (CAS) and Scigliano (ICAL); 
first-team setters were Matthews (DU) 
and Pochan. Second-team spikers were 
Steve Vegdahl (FEVA), Ervin Lee (ICAL)
Frank Smoot (DU), and Fitzgerald 
(FEVA); the setters were Bares (CAS) and 
Scigliano (ICAL).
IM basketball (Major," Intermediate, 
Minor, Womens leagues), bridge, and 
handball rosters are due in Room 104 at 
the gym by 4:30 today.
Be a good sport! 
Join the 
Tartan 
sports staff
* A weaponless means of self defense that consists of dynamic offensive 
and defensive techniques using all parts of the body to their maximum ad
vantage. The practice of which tones the body, develops coordination, 
quickens reflexes, and builds stamina.
The CMU Karate Club
Beginners' classes start Thursday, January 17, 1980, 6:30 p.m. in Thistle 
Hall, Gym. Practices are held Tuesdays and Thursdays 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. 
and Saturdays 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.
Supported by Student Senate

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22-TARTANJanuary 15, 1980
Officials fail to explain Food Service deficit
continued from page 6.
figures given to the TARTAN. Many stu
dents are questioning the good business 
sense of closing the Bakery/Deli while re
taining an abviously failing catering facil
ity.
In addition to the discrepencies in the 
report, there have been discrepencies in 
the statements from Auxiliary Services 
administration. Jim Balsom, President of 
SDC, reported to the TARTAN that Oscar 
Mayer stated to him that the Kiltie Cafe 
and the Faculty Dining room were also 
losing money. Mayer added that the 
Faculty Dining room could not be closed 
because politics are involved
Eichmuller blamed the 17.5% effective 
discount awarded to all vali-dine holders 
for cutting into the profit margin of the 
Bakery/Deli because of the high ratio of 
contract customers to cash paying cus
tomers. Rather than raise prices, the 
decision to close was made.
Students will notice higher prices in the 
Tartan Grill and the Deli Annex, however.
He added that Food Service will proba
bly not recoup its losses this year, and 
the moves made will only minimize total 
loss. Because of the losses, capital improve
ments to Food Service will be cut severely.
Eichmuller continues to say that there 
would be a reduction in total labor hours 
in Food Service, in order to cut expenses. 
This would affect part-time employees 
most, he stated, since union contracts 
protect full-time employees, and the 
work-study program makes student labor 
attractive.
However, one student manager, on 
work-study who was transferred from 
Morewood to the Kiltie Cafe, commented 
that his work time was cut from Five to 
three days a week.
Additionally, Mayer stated that frills, 
such as expensive plastic plates and printed 
napkins in Salads Plus, were just a drop 
in the bucket and would not be elim
inated.
Later, however, Eichmuller stated, Were 
cutting back on dollars and cents. He is 
asking for a reduction in utility payments, 
since Morewood has reduced hours, and
is seeing that labor hours are cut 
everywhere throughout the service.
This has led to uncertain work condi
tions for Food Service employees. Some 
have complained that they have been put 
at new posts for fewer hours without ad
vance notice. According to a Food Service 
cashier, supervisors have been unwilling 
to address the Food Service crisis with em
ployees, only adding to a feeling of alien
ation.
This alienation is felt by Food Service 
customers, too, namely, students.
One student stated, They didnt tell 
anybody. I dont see how they can do that 
without substantial warnings to every
body.
Another wonders how Food Service did 
not know about the crisis sooner, since 
they can register receipts at the end of each 
work day.
A student remarked that Food Service 
has breached its contract with him. When 
I signed up for Food Service, I was told Id 
be able to eat in Morewood.
Others are disillusioned : Theres no
thing they can do to help a dying system. 
They should just shoot it like a lame 
horse.
Students are equally upset over pre
sent conditions in Food Service. Long 
lines plague the Skibo facilities with in
creased use, and have driven more than one 
student to doing their own cooking.
The heads of TARTAN, THISTLE, 
WRCT, Student Senate, SIX, Spirit and 
UFO were so concerned that they called 
for an emegency meeting with Dr. Cyert. 
They are afraid that the administration 
tends to ignore the students in major 
policy decisions.
Part of this fear arises from a state
ment made last Tuesday by Yvonne 
McCredie. She commented, I think the 
problem here is one of perspective. The 
students see the University as a commu
nity, and like any community, have a right 
to be made aware...The administration sees 
the Universtiy as a business. And Chrysler 
isnt going to consult anyone on what it 
cuts back, and U.S. Steel isnt asking for 
personal opinions on who to Fire.
Representatives from General Dynamics, a 
Fortune 100 company with 15 operating 
divisions throughout the United States, will be 
visiting your campus to talk to you about our 
diverse, high-technology programs currently 
under contract. At General Dynamics you will 
have the opportunity to work with top 
professionals on state-of-the-art projects like the 
F-16 Cruise missiles. Trident submarines. LNG 
tankers. Sparrow missiles. Digital telephone 
equipment and more. Plus, depending upon 
your discipline, your career could start at one of 
our many locations shown above
To find out more about high-technology 
opportunities with one of the high-technology 
leaders in Telecommunications, Electronics, 
Tactical Weaponry, Shipbuilding, Aerospace, 
Data Products and other fields, contact your 
Placement Office. Or, send your resume to:
Bill Coleman
Corporate College Relations Administrator 
GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION 
Pierre Laclede Center, CN30 
St. Louis, MO 63105 
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F
JANUARY 22
El Monte, CA
American Telecommunications 
Corporation
2
 Pomona, CA
Pomona Division
3
 San Diego, CA
Convair Division 
Electronics Division 
DatagraphiX, Inc.
4
 Fort Worth, TX
Fort Worth Division
Chicago, IL
Marblehead Lime Company 
Freeman United Coal Mining 
Company
Material Service Corporation
St. Louta, MO
General Dynamics 
Communications Company 
General Dynamics Corporation 
(Corporate Headquarters)
Data Systems Services 
(Home Office)
7
 Montreal, Quebec, Canada
Asbestos Corporation Limited
8
 Quincy, MA and Charleston, SC
Quincy Shipbuilding Division
9
 Groton, CT
Electric Boat Division
Tampa, FL
Stromberg-Carlson Corporation
LETS TALK OPPORTUNITIES

---------------------------------------------------

a.b.
anuary 17 at 7,9,11.
lollywood or Trial in DH 2210
^dmissin $.75 with ID/$1.00 without.
anua
lidni
kdmi;
January 18 at 6, 8:15,10.30,12:45
lidnight Express in OH 2210
Admission $1 with ID/$1.25 without.
wrct
January 15 at 8 PMProfiles on Parade
Issues this week include Abortion and 
jjrth Control With representatives from 
banned Parenthood of Pittsburgh and 
Women's Health Services.
January 17 at 11:30Thirsty Ear pre
tents The Police Live 
[the return of:
I Jan 15 at 6 PM-The Make Believe Ballroom 
IJan 15 at 9 PM - Eclectic Radio 
[January 16 at 11 PMWhat's Your Beef? 
Jan 18 at Midnight - The Wizard 
Jan 20 at noon - Kevin Kelly 
January 18, Midnight to 3 AM 
The Midnight-morning music of The 
i/izard will present the Rolling Stones 
Jin concert from their 1973 tour, with 
Mick Taylor on lead guitar. Plus, featlured will be cuts from the finest new 
albums of the eighties. -
Through January 27
407 South Craig Street, Oakland.
The PPA Gallery will feature the works of 
Anne Golumb/Painting, Lines, Comines; 
Joan Russel/Fiber; and Doris Bally/Frag
ments. The show is free and open to the 
public. Gallery hours are Tuesday-Saturday 
10-5, and Sunday 1-5.
January 21-January 25 
Ellis Gallery, 3rd Floor CFA.
Stuart Suna presents an exhibition of his 
sculptures.
Through February 15,1980 
Hunt Institute
"The Tradition of Fine Bookbinding in 
the Twentieth Century. an exhibit of ap
proximately 100 bookbindings, will be 
held at the Hunt Institute for Botanical 
Documentation. The gallery is free and 
open to the public, Mondays through Fri
days from 9 AM to 5 PM.
January 26 at 1:30 PM and 3:00PM
Museum of Art Theater - $1.50 Admission 
Films by Lotte Reiniger: Adventures of 
Prince Achmed ; and by John Issach : The 
Art of Lotte Reiniger
January 27 at 7:30 PM
Lecture Hall - $1.50 Admission 
Animation Program : Object Animation 
(1955-1978)
January 29 at 7:30 PM
Lecture Hall - $1.50 Admission films by 
Werner Herzog : Land of Silence and 
Darkness and Sculpture Steiner.
February 4 at 7:30 PM
Styx has rescheduled their concert (can
celled by last year's arena strike) at 
the Civic Arena.
February 8,9 at 8:30 PM
B.B. King will be bringing back the blues 
to the Stanley Theatre for two evenings.
special
January 17 at 7:30 PM
Civic Arena
The Star Trek Experience with Gene 
Roddenberry'
Admission is $5.50, $6.50,$7.50.
films
artsE
irough January 1980 
rnegie Institute
"Printmaking in Europe" will run through 
January 31 in Gallery 10. Museum hours 
are 10 AM to 5 PM Tuesday through Satur
day, and 1 PM to 5 PM on Sundays.
Carnegie Institute Films 
January 15 at 7:30 PM
Lecture Hall$1.50 Admission. Films by 
Werner Herzog: Even Dwarfs Started Small 
and Precautions Against Fanatics.
January 19 at 1:30 and 3 PM
Museum of Art Theatre$1 Admission 
The Wizard of Oz
January 20 at 7:30 PM
Lecture Hall$1 Admission 
Animation Program: The Artist in Ani
mation
January 22 at 7:30 PM
Lecture Hall - $1.50 Admission Films by 
Werner Herzoy Fata Morgana and How 
Much Wood Wood a Woodchuck Chuck.
January 16 at 8 PM
Frick Fine Arts Building Auditorium
Pitt Campus
The German opera Die Zauberflote will be 
presented. Free admission.
Danny Kresky Enterprises presents:
January 24 at 7:30 PM
Aerosmith with special guests to be 
announced, has rescheduled their Decem
ber concert at the Civic arena.
DiCesare - Engler Productions presents: 
February 1,2 at 8:30 PM
Teddy Pendergrass will be appearing at the 
Stanley Theatre for two evening perform
ances. Tickets are $12.50.
February 1 at 9:30 PM
Off Broadway will be making their first 
area appearance at the Decade Club in 
Oakland.
sports
January 16Men's Basketball vs. Thiel 
(Home 8 PM)
Women's Basketball vs. Thiel 
(Home 6 PM)
January 18JV Basketball vs. PSU-McKeesport (Away 8PM)
January 19Men's Basketball vs. Case Wes
tern (Away 2 PM)
Women's Basketball vs. Seton 
Hill (Away 1 PM)
Fencing triad vs. West Virgin_ ~ia U, Allegheny (Home 1 PM)
Penguin Hockey
January 16Pgh vs. Toronto &:30 PM 
January 19Pgh vs. Edmonton 8:30 PM
Spirit Soccer
January 18Pgh \$. Cleveland 8 PM
Have a voice in Hillel programming! Come
to the Hillel Leadership Council meeting 
January 17 at 6 PM in the Hillel office. 
Join us for supper at 5:30 at the Hillel 
Dining Center, 315 S. Belief eld-Avenue. 
The Spectroscopy Society of Pittsburgh 
will hold its monthly meeting January 16 
at 8:30 PM at Duquesne University's Mel
lon Science Building. This month's guest 
speaker is Dr. Earl Wehry from the Univer
sity of Tennessee, who will lecture on "Ma
trix Isolation Techniques."
Children of Holocaust survivor? will meet
to discuss and share experiences and feel
ings Wednesday, January 17 from 9 to 10 
PM in the Rogal Room, Jewish Community 
Center, 315 S. Beliefield Ave.
Your sexuality is a most important part of 
you. A group is being organized around the 
topic and is open to all undergraduate and 
graduate women. Examples of areas to be 
discussed are: comfort with your body, re
lationships with both sexs, sexual activity.
The group will be led by Dr. Pamela 
Weiss from the Counseling Center. If you 
wish to enroll in the group or obtain more 
information about it, please call her at 
578-2922 or stop in at 135 Baker Hall. 
The group will meet from 3:30 to 5:00 
on Wednesdays. ^
Aerobic Dancing class being sponsored by 
APOWE Mondays and Thursdays, 12:00 
to 12:45 PM, 12 weeks  cost $57.00 
(24 lessons) professional instructor. Call 
(-- Goldberg x2211 immediately, classes 
beginning now.
A vigil for peace and disarmament, begun
November 2nd, will be continuing weekly 
into the new year. A different group is 
sponsoring each of the vigils, which are 
held on Fridays at the Federal Building, or 
on Saturdays at Market Square. Religious 
groups, community, neighborhood, senior 
citizens organizations, schools and other 
groups interested in participating are in
vited to contact the Thomas Merton Cen
ter, 1111 East Carson Street, Pittsburgh, 
PA 15203, for further information.
Shabbat services and dinner begin this Fri
day at 5:30 PM at Hillel. Tonight is a $2.50 
special and will feature a Mesorahtradi
tional service. Reservations should be made 
m advance by calling 621 -8875.
You have time for Jewish learning before 
the Super Bowl! Join the Talmud Study 
Group with Rabbi Poupko from 3 to 4 PM 
this Sunday at B'nai B'rith Hillel. No previous*knowledge of Talmud required. 
'Trends in Modern Israeli Poetry, Prose & 
Theatre" will be the topic of the 1980 Sha
lom Lecture by the Israeli poet T. Carmi. 
The lecture will take place January 21 at 
8 PM in the Tower lounge of Schenley Hall 
at Pitt. The lecture is sponsored by the 
Pittsburgh Foundation,*B'nai B'rith Hillel 
and PUPC.
Counselors, over 19 for unique overnight
boys' summer camp in Blue Ridge Moun
tains of Pennsylvania. Able to instruct any 
one of the following: Watersafety, Waterskiing, Arts & Crafts, Boating, Soccer, Bas
ketball, Athletics, Rock Climbing, Riflery, 
Track, Tennis, Golf, or Pioneering. White 
Camp Director, 138 Red Rambler Drive, 
Lafayette Hill, Pa. 19444.
scholarships
VIRA L. HEINZ TRAVElI AWARD
Women students who are currently com
pleting their junior year and who plan to 
study in the summer between their junior 
and senior years are eligible to apply for 
the VIRA L. HEINZ TRAVEL AWARD. 
This award provides $2500 to a woman 
student at Carnegie-Mellon Universtiy 
through the Pittsburgh Foundation as 
a result of a gift of Mrs. Vira L. Heinz, 
a trustee emerita. Application forms are 
available in Dean Cox's office. Room 204, 
Warner Hall. The deadline for submitting 
completed applications is January 31. 
Applicants will be requested to be pre
sent for an interview with the Selection 
Committtee on February 15. The award 
will be announced immediately thereafter.
An initiated member of any of the five
sororities at Carnegie Mellon University 
whose home is in Trumbull County, Ohio 
and who has a 2.5 grade point average 
may apply for the Trumbull County 
Panhellenic Association Scholarship for 
1979-1980. Details and application forms 
are available in Dean Cox's office, Warner 
Hall 204. The deadline for submitting 
completed applications is April 1, 1980.
Applications for the Delta Delta Delta
Scholarship competition which is open to 
all full-time undergraduate women stu
dents are available in Dean Cox's office, 
Warner Hall 204. The winner of the local 
competition is eligible for the $1000 
national competition. The deadline for 
submitting completed applications is March 
1, 1980. PLEASE NOTE: This scholar
ship is not restricted to members of Delta 
Delta Delta but is open to all full-time 
undergraduate women.
The Pennsylvania Institute of Certified
Public Accountants is sponsoring its 1979- 
80 Student Manuscript Competition.
The topic of this year's competition is 
'Regulation of the Accounting Profession'. 
At the present time the accounting profes
sion is "self-regulated."
Discuss basics such as should the ac
counting profession be regulated, if so, 
who should regulate itgovernment, the 
S.E.C., the profession itself, etc.? What 
does regulation mean to the future ol the 
profession? Discuss pros and cons, state 
your view based on research.
Awards of $500, $250 and $250 respec
tively will be awarded to the three best 
manuscripts selected. In addition, the first 
place winning article will be published in 
the professional journal, the "Pensylvania 
CPA Spokesman". All junior, senior, or 
graduate students majoring in accounting 
at a Pennsylvania college or university are 
eligible. Manuscripts must be 1500 to
2000 words in length, double spaced and 
typed 52 characters across. All manuscripts 
should include the student's name, home 
address, school and accounting professor's 
name. Entries must be submitted by Feb. 
15, 1980. For more information, and an 
application contact the Pa. Institute f;. 
CPAs, 1100 Lewis Tower Building, Phila 
delphia, PA 19102, (215) 735-2635.
The Pennsylvania Legislative Correspon
dents Association, an organization of state 
government reporters based in Harrisburg, 
will have a summer intern program again 
in 1980.
Two students, who are currently Juniors, 
will be picked for the 12-week program 
which will begin in late Spring. The 
stipend for each student will be $1,440. 
The program is open to students attending 
Pennsylvania colleges and to Pennsylvania 
residents who go to out-of-state schools.
The deadline for applications is March 
7. Entries postmarked after this date will 
not be accepted. The PLCA Scholarship 
Committee will pick the interns by March 
21 after personal interviews with the final
ists. We also have one $500 scholarship 
available to finalists who can prove finan
cial need.
Student who want to apply for the in
ternships should provide the following in
formation: A resume that includes infor
mation on all previous work experience, 
a copy of your latest transcript, samples of 
your work (either clips or class assign
ments), three references, perferably from 
journalism teachers or employers (please 
include the telephone numbers of your re
ferences), and 300 to 500 words on how 
you plan to use this internship (it must be 
typed).
Student with questions about the pro
gram can contact Marcia Coyle at 717-787- 
4040. The applications should be sent to: 
Scholarship Committee, do Marcia Coyle, 
P.O. Box 1287, Harrisburg, PA 17108.

---------------------------------------------------

classified ads
. Babysitter wanted: Occasional evenings
and possibly after school. Call 422-7180.
Times Square 1979-1980. I. A. *79 from
New York wants to meet dark, brown-eyed 
girl. If this is you see Joan at G.S.I.A.
To the admirer of my "great lips": Let's
meet sometime! Horshack
Interested in forming car pool. Leave Mt.
Lebanon approx. 8:15 AM. Leave Sq. Hill/ 
Oakland approx. 5:00 PM. Other arrange
ments possible. Call Kay. 422-5200
Collector wants class rings (college, others)
marked "K", any condition. Paying small 
$15, medium $20, large $35 or more. Buy
ing all "K" marked jewelry, chains, etc. Im
mediate payment. Keepsake, 7109 Cirdeview, St. Louis, Missouri 63123.
Oakland. Sleeping rooms, furnished,
private bath, security door, $125/mo. No 
pets or children. International student 
preferred. 3-5pm 462-7319 after 5
362-8887.
Oakland . Furnished efficiency $175/mo.
No pets or children. International student 
preferred. 3-5pm 462-7319, after 5
362-8887.
Penn Ave-Bloomfield. One bedroom, wall
to wall, kitchen equipment, security door, 
intercom, $200/mo + utilities. No pets or 
children. International student preferred. 
3-5pm 462-7319, after 5 362-8887.
Sks RacksLocking Barrecrafters Trunk
Mount, excellent condition, $30/offer. 
Rick, 361-7454.
Tire Chainscleated. Used once. Fits
E,F7814 Tires. $30/offer. Rick, 
361-7454.
To the young lady who called Kurt on Mon
day night Jan, 7th, abyout McGill Dorm, 
please call back.
Scotch *n' Soda will be holding auditions
for the Spring Musical on Sunday, January 
27 at 1 PM. Actors, singers, gymnasts and 
magicians are welcome. Copies of the script 
of this year's musical are available in 
Hunt Library. Crew call for the musical is 
also upcoming - be ready!
HELPER FOR INSTRUMENT ROOM/ 
KEEPER. Electrical Engineering Depart
ment  Helper for Instrument Room/ 
Keeper  Sign out electronic equipment to 
undergraduate students for their labs, 
check returning equipment into the store
room properly, help deliver purchased 
goods on Purchase Orders to the appro
priate faculty, occasional errands. $3.50 
hr  work study. Call Gene Bartel, x2458. 
WORK STUDY STUDENTS. Duties to in
clude the use of ditto machine, photo
copier, postage machine, running errands, 
some lig^it typing, & various duties. (Prefer 
non-EE student) $3.50 hr - call Sue. 
x2454.
WORK STUDY STUDENT. Clerical assis
tant in Electrical Engineering Department: 
running errands, stuffing envelopes for 
bulk mailings, keep stock of supplies, 
writing up file cards for a name and address 
file, filing, using photocopier and ditto 
machines, occasionally answering phones. 
$3.50 hr - call Anna x2454. (Prefer 
Non-EE)
HELP FIND TOMORROW'S GREAT 
ARTISTS FOR MERRILL CHASE GAL
LERIES. If you are outgoing, enthusiastic, 
and have a scholarly knowledge of art 
(particularly 19th and 20th Century paint
ings), and you also like to deal with people, 
Merrill Chase can use your talent in a crea
tive and productive way. Help us screen 
and discover new artistic talent  inter
nationally  for acquisition by our gal
leries. It's a great opportunity to utilize 
your knowledge and combine with out
standing financial rewards. Send resume 
and tell us why you think you ought to 
have this fascinating job: Mr. Ear! Silvers, 
Vice President, Merrill Chase Galleries, 
225 Fencl Lane, Hillside, II 60162.
official
President Richard M. Cyert will have open
office hours on Tuesday, January 15,1980. 
Students who wish to meet with the presi
dents should telephone his office at x2200 
to set up an appointment. It is hoped that 
this program will be a benefit to both the 
president and the students in allowing 
students direct contact with him.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities and Social Sciences, will have 
open office hours for students on Tuesday 
from 1:30 to 3:30 PM.
The Post College Professional Education
Program (PCPE) is offering four new 
courses during the spring semester, 1980, 
designed to aid in the professional growth 
of women by increasing career skills. The 
schedule for the courses is:
January 17-19, Financial Accounting: 
Introduction to Language and Concepts; a 
course offered for those who need to 
understand accounting and its impact on 
their organization.
February 14-16  Essential Mathemat
ics; a workshop designed for review of and 
improvement on the basic understanding 
of mathematics. The seminar includes 
lectures as well as skillbuilding sessions.
February 21-23  Accounting for Non
profit Organizations; a seminar course 
established to review concepts and proce
dures from financial accounting and re
lating them to nonprofit accounting.
March 7-8 - Statistical Concepts; a 
workshop given to provide instruction in 
problem-solving techniques and hands-on 
computer experience in statistics.
Further information is available by con
tacting Kay Mulroy, Post College Profes
sional Education Program, Carnegie-Mellon 
University, 405 Margaret Morrison Build
ing, Pittsburgh, PA 15213.
w.  -A*1 - -  s, y.,, 
; SiCome with us
Attention all Seniors!! The Senior Banquet
will be held this year on January 26,1980. 
It is free to all seniors. Those wishing to 
attend must go to the Alumni Office, fifth 
floor Warner Hall, to receive their ticket, 
prior to January 23. Please have your valid 
I.D. with you. Following the Banquet will 
be a dance, open to the entire campus, 
where door prizes, including a trip for two 
to Jamaica will be awarded. Prize winners 
must be present. \
Get the Dean's List edge over your class - 
mates. Come to the Communications 
Skills Center and for no fee whatsoever, 
We'll teach, advise, and answer questions 
in all parts of the writing process. Our 
staff works with all subject matter: 
resumes, research papers, letters, applica-- 
tions, literature papers, rhetoric study, 
science assignments, and any other writing 
tasks you can think of.
Our Communications Skills Center, on 
the first floor of Baker Hall, is equipped 
with a library of writing books, experi
enced and eager staff, and writing lessons 
on the computer. To top all this, we have 
prime office space with a scenic view of the 
Carnegie-Mellon campus.
We are open Monday through Friday, 
9:00 AM to 4:00 PM. Hurry. Don't be the 
last person in your c|ass to take advantage 
of the Communication Skills Center.
Senior banquet will be held on January 26, 
1980. Open to all Seniors. Tickets can be 
picked up in the Alumni Office, 5th floor, 
Warner Hall.
All aliens must report their addresses to
the United States each January. Forms 
are available at any U.S. Post Office 
during January and a supply is available 
at the CMU Post Office or the Office 
of the Foreign Student Advisor. Parents 
or guardians are required to submit 
reports for alien children under fourteen 
years of age.clubs
ATTENTION THISTLE STAFF: 1980-81
Editorial Board Elections to be held Tues
day, January 22, 6 PM in THISTLE office. 
Please plan to attend.
SENIORS - THIS IS IT! Last chance to be
photographed for the yearbook. Senior 
portraits all this week. Sign up at Informa
tion Desk. (Sorry, first takes only).
Oakland Review, the CMU literary maga
zine, is soliciting original poetry, prose, and 
art work for the 1979-80 issue. Work may 
be submitted to Oakland Review, Skibo 
53, via campus ma'rf-or at Skibo Infomation 
Desk. Deadline for submissions is Febru
ary 29, 1980.
Thursday, January 12, the International
Student Organization of CMU will hold its 
weekly meeting in Skibo Room 12 at 6:00 
PM. Ingrid Glasner will present some of her 
observations on her home country, Ger
many. Discussion and refreshments will 
follow. All interested students, both Amer
ican and foreign, are invited to attend.
E 
LISpring Break!
-1- ^ - ^ i -. ..
Internation Information Service: For information about foreign countries and cul- 1 
tures, contact the International Student 
Organization of CMU, Box 181, Baker 
Hall, x3043. Our members are willing to 
personally discuss various aspects of their 
home countries with you. If we don't have 
someone from the country you're inter
ested in, we'll try to find someone else 
who can answer your questions.
There are vacancies in Student Senate to 
be filled by petition, 1 seat in CIT and 
1 seat in CFA. Petitions are available from* 
the Rules Committee Mailbox at Skibo 
Information Desk. The deadline for 
petitions is 12:00 midnight January 21,
1980.
Student Senate needs a secretary (workstudy student). This will involve at least 10 
hours a week  taking minutes, using a 
ditto machine, and other office work. 
Over $3/hr. to start. If you are efficient, 
capable and interested please contact the 
Financial Aid Office, or Ralph M. Sherman 
(Senate Chairperson) at 683-0135, or leave* 
a note in the mailbox at Skibo Desk.
Thanx!!!... * .
Concerts Committee will meet on Wed
nesday, January 16th at 7 PM in A.B. 
room above Skibo info desk to discuss 
plans for upcoming Shows. Anyone inter
ested is welcome, all old'members must 
attend. If you're not at the meeting, you 
are not on the. committee. Contact Ted' 
Smits at X4287 for information.
On Friday, January 18, the Law Clubs of
CMU, Pitt & Duquesne will host a joint5 
Law Day from 12:00 to 5:00 PM in the 
Student Union Buildifig Ballroom. All 
interested students and faculty are invited 
to attend.general
Daily Mass is celebrated by the Roman
Catholic Chaplaincy (The Univ. Oratory 
Parish) Monday through Friday af 12:30 
PM in CMU's Chapel, Skibo 39. If your 
time is limited because of the lunch hour 
please feel free to eat your lunch first and 
still receive the Eucharist. We invite the 
campus community to come and join us.
On Wednesday, January 16, there will be
the first meeting of the Hebrew Literacy 
Group- a class for people with no reading 
knowledge of Hebrew who wish to attain 
fluency in following a synagogue service in 
the prayerbook. The meeting will be at 
B'nai B'rith Hillel from 6 to 7:30 PM. For 
more information, call 62F-8875. m
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy (Univer
sity Oratory Parish) sponsors an under
graduate program every Thursday evening 
with mass at 6:30pm followed by free 
buffet and discussion at 8:00pm at the 
Oratory(4040 Bigelow Blvd.). For mere 
information phone 681 -3181.'
If you are interested in joining a Public 
Speaking Club, please call Dr. Thomas 
Keer at x2294'or Paul Kravits at 521- 
7289.
to the Bahamas
rrp-.'T
For more information
N
O
W
y,
r
