The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 84, Number 19, March 6, 1984.
resge Dining Room to 
e restricted to faculty
,y RIC MEDROW
rtoti Editor in Chief
A Faculty Organization referendum 
ided overwhelmingly, 246 to 36, in favor 
|  a charter establishing a Faculty Club,
 hile the same ballot narrowly approved, 
I jO to 134, a recommendation to the admin tration to restrict use of Kresge Faculty 
Mining Room to Faculty Club members,
I J ccept tor the invitation of guests. Forty perj nt of the 750 eligible voters responded to 
lie referendum, and results were announced 
(I the February 23 Faculty Senate meeting. 
1 The referendum is the result of a long and 
|?ated debate. Last semester, Faculty Senate
 riginally passed the charter, including the 
Istriction of Kresge. Professor James 
lloburg then introduced a resolution to 
liculty Senate protesung segregation of 
f| resge. Hie resolution was defeated, and in 
compromise the referendum was posed to 
ie entire faculty. Debate over the issue
tgan when Faculty Senate decided that 
esge, in Skibo, was favored over the old
- 1 lietd Xi house as a possible location for a 
f culty club. Renovation have been underv ay in Kresge since it was chosen over the 
9 d Theta Xi house.
I No membership dues have yet been legisH ted by Faculty Senate, although Faculty 
Hlub is expected to be self-supporting. 
i Membership to the club is open to all faculty 
me mbers, part-time and full-time, doctoral 
H llows, administrators including and above 
I e level of Assistant Dean, and anybody else 
I xted to membership by the Faculty Club 
lanagement Committee. The club charter
is effective as of September 1984, while the 
restriction of Kresge to club members awaits 
the decision of President Cyert.
According to Dr. Hugh D. Young, an 
exclusive Kresge lounge will promote 
interaction and collegiality among faculty, 
bring faculty closer together, combat compartmentalization, and help us see ourselves 
as parts of a university.
Young feels that Kresge worked well as a 
faculty facility when it was first built and 
was open only to faculty. But now Kresge 
has gotten too crowded, and, as a result, 
faculty no longer want to use it as much, 
says Young.
Hoburg, however, feels that the recom
mendation sets an atmosphere of elitism. 
The exclusion of students from Kresge runs 
counter to the purpose of a university, 
which should be a place where people get 
together to share ideas regardless of any sta
tus conferred by titles, Hoburg says.
I am saddened when people are separ
ated out according to their status, Hoburg 
said. He then added, I guess Im really just 
an oddball in feeling the way he does.
Young feels Hoburgs contention that 
people will be separated by the exclusion is 
wrong. He says that when students used 
Kresge in the past, they ate with other stu
dents. Now that they can eat at Kresge by 
invitation only, they have to eat with 
faculty.
Student concern seems to be different. 
According to Alexandra Kavoulakis, chair
man of Student Senate, That will be that 
much less space in Skibo for us. Im not so
Hugh D. Young, professor of physics, is a
much against a faculty club as their doing it 
.n Skibo.
Pat Schmitt, chairman of Student Senate 
General Campus and Information Commit
tee, agrees. I dont think students should be 
excluded from anywhere in Skibo, since 
theoretically this is our student union. 
Schmitt plans to introduce a resolution to 
Student Senate this week protesting the 
Faculty Organization recommendation. 
The Graduate Student Organization has
photo by Colin Rafferty 
strong proponent of a Faculty Club.
been protesting the exclusion for some time, 
while a petition including signatures of over 
600 faculty, staff and students protesting the 
issue was submitted to Faculty Senate last 
semester.
Young maintains that the resolution is 
for the good of all involved and that he is 
sensitive to the needs of students. Anybody 
who has ever sat in on one of my classes 
knows that, and I am proud of it, said 
Young.
rchitecture project will remodel Skibo in 2-3 years
BILL GARRISON
rtan Stiiffwriter
According to Assistant Professor of Archi|:ture Jay Garrott and senior architect Carl 
Jjickson, Skibo will undergo extensive 
I modeling within the next 2-3 years.
Money for the renovation will come out 
of President Cyerts proposed $100 million 
dollar Central Fund Drive, whffch will 
also pay for a new athletic complex, a new 
theatre arts building, and an astro-turf 
playing-surface for Tech Field.
Ill
photo by Eric Targan
uture renovation of Skibo may threaten the existence of the ever-popular Grey Matter.
The proposal to renovate Skibo deve
loped in an architectural programming 
class, headed by Garrott, to identify existing 
problems w ith Skibo and heighten adminis
trations awareness to them.
The result was a document, drawn up by 
the class and subheaded by Erickson and 
another student, George Temple, that con
tained answers to these questions. It was 
presented to President Richard Cyert, Dean 
Braden Walter, Associate Dean Lois Cox, 
and other members of administration.- '* . *4lif _The document recommended a very 
detailed post-occupancy evaluation and 
diagnostic analysis to be taken of Skibo to 
determine just exacdy what it is. This has 
to be done because there is no clear-cut pol
icy on what Skibo really is, explained Gar
rott. As soon as we know whether it is a 
student union, a faculty building, or a 
cafeteria, then the re-construction can be 
laid out to fit that specification.
The document also calls for an outside 
consultant to coordinate the project. By 
bringing in an outside firm to do the layout; 
we would eliminate all of the politics and 
red-tape that would occur if we had the 
university perform it," stated Erickson.
Garrott, Erickson, and Temple feel the 
remodeling of Skibo is necessary. Ballroom 
acoustics are very poor because it was never 
meant to be used for concerts and dances. 
The roof leaks, the air-conditioning doesnt 
work, and there is a phenomenal amount of 
heat loss in the winter.
At present, there are several meetings sche
duled between Cyert and the coordinators of 
the project, including head of Architechure 
Omar Akin. In these meetings, policvstatements will be made, objectives will be 
laid out, and the specific financial allot
ments will be determined. As Garrott con
cluded, We must determine the long-range 
goal of the facility first. From there, ulti
mately, we can make Skibo one of the finest 
structures on campus.
A Handbook which oudines all of the 
projects major points can be obtained at the 
Student Senate office.
issue
News
A students look at teaching..............page 2
New department head for Chemistrypage 3
Features
Hine sees new age...........................page 5
1984 is at CMU...................................pag^ 6
Entertainment
Two concerts hit Pittsburgh...........page 9
Kubrick seeks actors........................page 10
Sports
Mens basketball finishes with win page 13
Swimmer goes to nationals...........page 15
Editorial
Faculty acts segregationist................page 18

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanMarch 6, 1984
From the other side of the fenceClassroom interaction is essential for learning
&
By RIC MEDROW
Tartan Editor in Chief
The faculty at CMU are some of the most 
learned men and women in their respective 
fields of study. They are also some of the 
most enthusiastic academicians in the 
world.
However, it has been said in 
the past that teaching suffers at 
the expense of research - not 
because professors dont want to teach, but 
because their training has been heavily 
research-based.
Recently, a combined effort by the Uni
versity Teaching Center, Student Senate, 
and Academic Affairs to improve teaching 
has met with great success as a result of 
enthusiastic cooperation by faculty.
Unfortunately, the resources of groups 
involved is limited. In order to reach a larger 
audience, The Tartan will print a series of
comes in dressed up differently every day, 
does a little act for the class, then shoots 
questions at the class in rapid-fire fashion. 
A little bizarre, but its effective. His students 
supposedly leam in one year what most 
French programs teach in four.
Now, Im not suggesting that every 
teacher on campus walk around in costume 
and take courses in the Drama Department. 
Just get students involved.
Get them to the front of the room. It may 
be a bother to call students from the back of 
the room if you teach in a big lecture hall, 
but after the second or third dmewell, we 
are a stubborn bunch  say the fourth ume 
students will naturally sit up front. How can 
a student leam when hes somewhere off in 
space.
Some teachers will start a debate among 
students every now and then. Youd be sur
prised how well it works, even in a lecture
articles offering helpful hints garnered 
mosdy from the personal experience of the 
writer.

Classroom interaction is the most impor
tant thing Ive found in learning. Its hard 
not to fall asleep when a teacher talks at you 
for an entire period. If Im not involved in 
what a teacher says, my mind begins to 
wander, and pretty soon . . .
Theres a professor of French at Dart
mouth who has this problem licked. He
hall.
Ive got another teacher who will occa
sionally lapse into an anecdote that pertains 
to the subject matter. Suddenly, you feel the 
teacher is talking to you instead of at you. 
How often do you lecture to your friends, 
even when you know more about the topic 
of con versa don than they? Students dont 
like to be lectured to any more than your 
friends do. We realize you know more than 
we do, thats why were here. But we sull 
don't want to hear you lecture.
Greeks prepare to "sing and 
dance at Syria Mosque Friday
By ROBERT FISHEL
Tartan Staffwriter
As Friday fast approaches, the Greeks are 
working hard to put in those last few 
touches. Greek Sing has finally arrived this 
Friday, March 9, at 7:30 pm at the Syria 
^ Mosque. For weeks now, every 
fraternity and sorority on cam
pus has been working hard in 
order to put on the best show 
possible. Greek Sing is a special event for all 
greeks. It gives them a chance to show the 
campus and community what fraternal ism 
is all about. This year, all proceeds from 
Greek sing will go to the Pittsburgh Hos/
pice Organizadons.
Each fraternity and sorority sings and 
dances to songs from popular movies and 
plays, competing against their fellow 
Greeks. The competition can be fierce, for 
every fraternity and sorority possesses a lot of 
talent, and each has worked hard to gamer 
first prize. Unfortunately, you never know 
what your competition is going to be like 
until you get there. In past years, ZBT and 
SAE have always been fierce competitors 
among the fraternities while the Tri-Delts 
have always been strong among the 
sororities.
Be a little animated. Fortunately or unfor
tunately, youre teaching a generauon that 
grew up on hours of television every day. We 
get bored of watching a stauonary (no pun 
intended) teacher.
A joke every now and then doesnt hurt 
anything. Teaching may be a serious busi
ness, but lets not carry it too far.
Probably the most important thing you 
can do is also the most simple (Im letting 
myself in for it now), Ask questions. If truth 
be told, Im far more likely to do homework 
for a class where I think a teacher might ask
me a question than otherwise. 1 dont wa*
an enti^to sound stupid in front of
classroom.By now, many of you may be saying t
sounds like hes suggesung we beco^
actors. Maybe I am. Its the most effect^
way for me to leam. So if youre too digm.
fied to act or you like the traditional
methods of teaching, who am I to tell vj
your own business? Youre right. Youre^
teacher, not me. But its been a while since
some of you have sat on the other side
Think about it from over here for a minuif
or two.
Fall registration dates are 
changed because of Passover!
Students don't like to be lectured to any more than your friends do.
By DANIEL DURKIN
Tartan Staffwriter
Registradon for the 1984 fall semester will 
be held on April 25 and 26 because the origi
nal dates for registration, April 17 and 18, 
fall on the first two days of Passover.
Dick Rainsberger, CMU Registrar, said 
that in December he was informed by an 
Orthodox Jewish student that registration
was in conflict with th Jewish holidayj 
Rainsberger, who is responsible for 
yearly calendar, stated that the conflict wa| 
just an oversight, and that we made a 
adjustment.
As a result of the changed dates, schedui 
confirmadon for the fall semester will h 
mailed one week later. Students can expet 
their schedules mailed to their permanen 
address by the third week of May.
DICK RAINSBERGER
photo by Colin RaM
Help available
VD clinic open in Pittsburgh
photo by Colin Rafferty
A light snowstorm early last week cut spring short and brought students back to Flagstaff 
Hill.
The Pittsburgh Free Clinic has 
announced the change of its name to the 
Pittsburgh Community Health Services and 
the opening of a new VI) Specialty Clinic.
The Free Clinic, established in 1970, has 
changed its name to more accurately reflect 
its range of medical, counseling, and health 
educadon services and its need for increased 
self-sufficiency. The Specialty Clinic, patt
erned after a proven mid-level clinirian/physician consultant model used by the Center 
for Disease Control, will provide services for 
a wide range of sexually transmitted diseases 
during evening hours.
Certain sexually transmitted diseases, 
according to Center for Disease Control estimates, have reached nadonal epidemic proporuons. Among them are Herpes (20 
million Americans), venereal warts (1 mil
lion Americans), and Trichomonas.
"The Pittsburgh Community Health Ser
vices simply could not meet the demand for 
VD services through its current professional
volunteer staffed VD program, RonVald 
serri, chairman of the Medical Advisor 
Committee said. Therefore, we ^ 
designed a ptpgram that will specials J 
sexually transmitted diseases and that"1 
be staffed by paid personnel.
Patients' attending the VD Spec^ 
Clinic will receive testing and treatment5 
vices, which will stress preventive h 
measures. Physician assistants will exam1" 
and treat pauents and will refer pr0')l 
visits to the physician consultant.
The Pittsburgh Community Health^ 
vices is committed to quality health 
delivery that emphasizes confidently 
mutual respect between health Pr()Vl^ 
and clients, pauent education and 
judgmental care, Sharon Cunniff. , 
ager of operauons, stated. We 
especially given the accessible eve^ 
hours, that the VD Clinic will be " 
utilized and well-liked by patients.

---------------------------------------------------

Features
'Pictures are symbols'
'nesets out to capture the people of the "new age
##
photographs by Lewis Hine of 20th century people.photo by Eric Targan
ly SUSAN MELLING
Tartan Staffwriter
Whether it be a painting or photograph, 
ie picture is a symbol that brings one 
immediately into close touch with reality. 
In fact, it is often more effective than the
reality would have been because in the pic
ture the non-essential and conflicting inter
ests have been eliminated.
So said photographer Lewis Hine during 
a social work conference in 1909. With this 
in mind, Hine set out to capture on film the
people of the new age: the 20th century.
Bom in Oshkosh, Wisconsin in 1874, he 
came to New York in 1901, first to Yonkers 
and then in 1919 to Hastings-on-theHudson with his wife and son. Arriving in 
New York soon after Industrialism became 
prominent, Hine, a 20th century reformer, 
wanted to somehow order the disarray that 
industry was creating. The impact of what 
he saw began to increasingly affect him: 
poverty, tenement housing, child labor and 
death.
Within a few years of his move to New 
York City, he opened his own studio. It was 
at this studio that Hine developed the pho
tographs which he had taken for the 
National Child Labor Committee. Depict
ing the abuses of child labor prominent in 
the earlier 20th century, Hine wanted his 
photographs to stir the public into action 
against such abuses. He captured the harsh 
reality in each and every photograph, tend
ing mostly toward the individual, the child. 
He managed to find each childs strength, 
personality and plight.Heads obtains a world of extravagance, luxury and sparseness mix together well
Jy JESSICA S. RUDNICK
Tartan Staffwriter 
You walk through a narrow doorway and 
iown a pair of stairs into another world. A 
vorld of extravagance and luxury, of sparseless and reality. What is this magical place? 
fts that haven of collegiate necessities, 
leads Together, located at 1914 Murry 
Vvenue in Squirrel Hill. (Its a nice walk in 
le warm weather, and only a brief bus ride 
|n winter.)
Heads Together is many shops in one. 
ley sell one of the most diverse selections 
i merchandise ever accumulated under one 
)f. The atmosphere is also unique, espe
cially at about midnight on Saturday, when 
^undry weirdos dressed and coiffed in a most 
lusual manner tend to make their appear
ance at this fabled underground mall.
The highlight of Heads is the waterbeds. 
From the economy model that is nothing 
more than a waferboard box enclosing the 
mattress, to the most elaborate four-poster, 
complete with mirrored overhead canopy, 
Heads has them all. And, unlike at Freds 
Waterbed Oudet in your local suburban 
shopping mall at home, they dont mind at 
Heads if you test out the merchandise, 
which, as all waterbed devotees know, is 
well worth doing. The sales technique in 
the Heads waterbed department cant even 
be called low-pressure; its closer to nopressure. No scowls, no nasally uttered, 
Can I help you with something? This is 
recreational browsing at its finest.
Heads Together also has a complete 
record department, something usually only 
found in record stores. Just about anything
Investment Group to invest
In the world of historical realities Hine 
captures the conflict existing between 
humans and reality, revealing to us, the 
audience, a definite past. Hines laboring 
children became classical statements of the 
evils of child labor.
These photographs, which are part of the 
Library of Congress travelling exhibit, will 
be on display on the 4th floor of Hunt 
Library, until March 8. It is open to the 
public without charge from 8 a.m. to mid
night, Monday to Thursday; 8 a.m. to 9 
p.m., Friday; 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., Saturday and 
noon to midnight Sunday.
% E. MACLAY GEARHART
***/ to Ihr Tartan
Thursday, February 23, the CMU Investmenl Group voted to invest in twocompanles H. J. Heinz and Wendys International.
Heinz is a manufacturer of an extensive 
,ln< convenience foods. Heinz is the leadlnS producer of ketchup, and also holds 
^Portant positions in sauces, baby food, 
ans vinegar, pickles, and soups. The Starst division is the leading domesdc proQl|( ( I canned tuna fish and also produces 
Iyes cat food.
Heinz has compiled one of the best
records in the food processing industry, 
achieving a compound annual growth rate 
of 15.3% in earnings per share, and 15.4% in 
dividends per share for the ten previous 
years up through fiscal 1982. This combined 
with an estimated 11% earnings gain for 
fiscal 1984, the Group felt that Heinz is an 
excellent long-term holding.
Wendys International owns and oper
ates and franchises restaurants under the 
name of Wendys Old Fashioned Ham
burgers. A new restaurant concept, Sisters 
Chicken and Biscuits, was begun in late 
continued on page 7
that can be found at the National Record 
Mart (and then some) can be purchased at 
Heads. The best time to buy records is when 
they are having one of those well-promoted 
specials like one album for x dollars, 2 for y 
dollars, and three for z dollars, where x, y, 
and z represent substantial discounts off the 
already regularly reasonable prices.
Heads also has a complete video library, a 
vast collection of tapes that can either be 
purchased or rented. They have a video tape 
club that entitles members to rent videos at 
extremely low prices. Their selections range 
from classic films such as Rocky, to more 
unusual A Clock Work Orange, to the 
pornographic Deep Throat. They also 
have all those album videos, like Michael 
Jacksons Thriller and Billy Joels An 
Innocent Man. Their video department is 
as well-stocked as their record department.
Of course, if its not records you are lack
ing, but a stereo, Heads Together can help 
you out there too. (Ditto for big-screen 
T.V.s and assorted other electronic goo
dies.) They love to demonstrate their sys
tems, so dont be afraid to ask to hear a 
certain pair of speakers, or to see a demon
stration of a particular VCR. This is more 
exceptional recreational shopping.
Heads Together also has a small but inter
esting clothing department, specializing in 
hand-painted sweatshirts and T-shirts, and 
other unusual apparel. They have the requi
site the normal T-shirts with moderately ob
scene slogans, roch-n-roll shirts with 
well-known and not-so-well-known bands 
advertised across the chest, and assorted odds 
and ends that require a more ecclectic taste 
in clothes. In the same department, there is a 
glass case full of original-looking non
necessities such as belt buckles, lighter cov
ers, and feathered earrings. And standing 
proud and tall are four revolving cylinders
photo by Eric Targan 
Information on Hine explains work.
of buttons, ranging from the simple direct
ness of "Nuke Herpes, to elaborate designs 
that correspond to musicians and bands 
such as The Police and Michael Jackson. 
There is also a nice variety of posters dis
played in this section.
Finally, there is the legendary "para
phernalia department at Heads Together. 
Signs bolding warn that You must be over
18 to enter this department, and Anyone 
expressing illegal intent will be refused ser
vice. But of course everyone knows that all 
those plastic and glass configurations in 
input and output arrangements are for. . 
.uh, decoration. And that those pretty fea
thered clips hanging in a row on the wall 
are. . .well, er. . .to put in your hair. Its 
difficult, fortunately, to express illegal 
intent with regard to incense and large silkscreened wall hangings.
Heads Together is a collegiate wonder
land from one end to the other. If youve 
never been there, hurry up and go find out 
what youve been missing. And if you 
havent been there in a while (maybe you 
think youre too busy), remember that col
lege is supposed to be fun, too, and you 
didnt want to pass 15-212 anyway. So stop 
by there soon.A Phi O to offer scholarship
By ARNOLD KAMIS & JOHATHAN to Kappa Chapter for 17 years. During his
GELD
Special to the Tartan
The Kappa Chapter of Alpha Phi Omega 
is offering its annual scholarships in the 
memory of the late Professor Kent D. 
Shaffer. Two scholarships, in amounts of 
$400 and $200, are awarded from a trust fund 
in Kent D. Shaffers name.
The late Professor Shaffer was an advisor
life, he dedicated himself to the service of 
mankind. He was a volunteer of many 
organizations including the National 
Council of Boy Scouts of America, the Cam
pus Chest, and the Red Cross. Asa professor 
at the Carnegie Institute of Technology, he 
was active as a faculty member of the Col
lege Executive Board, Chairman of the 
continued on page 7

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanMarch 6, 1984
The time has arrived: 1984 
What will happen to us now?MARCH 9-10-11
By NEAL W. JOHNSTON
Tartan Features Editor
Its 1984. Does that jog any memories of 
Big Brother? Or how about the Ministry of 
Truth? George Orwell, with his insightful 
novel, 1984, has made many of us sit back 
and wonder: could it really happen?
To celebrate the coming of this year, a 
conference call George Orwell Days, Pitts
burgh 1984 has been created. The idea 
began with one man: H. Eberhard von 
Waldow.
One day about a year ago, I was sitting in 
the sauna. Next year is 1984, von Waldow 
recalled thinking. I made the connection to 
Orwells novel and concluded something 
needs to be done. So, the conference was 
conceived, which will examine our world 
next to Orwells fictitious totalitarian state.
The conference, a series of workshops, 
will cover topics that range from the oppres
sion of minorities in totalitarian states and 
the two faces of technology to the power of 
mass communication and mind/thought 
control. The keynote speech, kicking off the 
conference, will be given by Tom Wicker, 
associate editor of The New York Times.
Von Waldow believes that it is not 
enough to ask, Did it come true, or say, 
Thank God it did not happen. He views 
1984 as more of a warning about what 
might happen. He believes Orwells mes
sage is: It depends on you.
The conference runs from Friday, March 
9 through Sunday, March 11. It will be held 
at The Pittsburgh Theological Seminary, 
616 North Highland Avenue. For more 
information call 362-5610. One factor 
should be noted: all events are free of charge.
photo by Mike Pilewski
Stop and take note: this is 1984.ITC virtue workstations gain user interface devices
!
By WILFRED J. HANSEN
Special to the Tartan
In talking about the ITCs Vice/Virtue 
system, I have mentioned the user interface 
hardware: keyboard, mouse, and bitmapped 
display. This week I want to talk a little 
about what they are and why.
The first thing to say is that these are 
exactly the same interface devices found on 
the Macintoshes now selling at a great rate 
in the campus computer store. So at least 
one manufacturer and its customers 
embrace the merits of this interface. Why 
does the ITC agree?
Keyboard.
Still the best way to get letters, digits, 
punctuation, and what-not into a
document.
Mouse.
This is a little box about the size of a deck 
of cards that slides around on the table next 
to the keyboard. Various mouse designs 
have one, two, or three buttons on the back 
of the mouse.
On the screen of the display is an arrow 
that moves around mimicking your move
ment of the mouse on the table. When .you 
press one of the buttons, something may 
happen on the screen at the place where the 
arrow is pointing: the adjacent character, 
word or line may be underlined; the image 
on screen may begin to move; the image 
may be temporarily replaced with a list of 
items you can select from; or something else.
In this way you point to pieces of text and do 
things to them.
Display, Bitmapped.
You talk to computer with keyboard and 
mouse; it talks back through the display. On 
older systems the display can typically-show 
25 lines with 80 characters in each. There are 
few, if any, ways to show charts, diagrams, 
and pictures.
In a bitmapped display, the computer 
program can choose black or white for each 
individual dot on the screen (sometimes 
called a pixel). The image space is roughly a 
thousand pixels wide and almost as high. 
What does this mean?
With a bitmapped display, a program can 
display any image that fits, and with resolu
tion about twice as good as a television 
image. This means that images and text an 
be on screen together. It means text can be 
italic or bold or in any of numerous sizes. 
(Nine or even ten lines to the inch can be 
readable.)
With so much resolution, much more text 
can be visible simultaneously. It becomes 
easier to consult one document while creat
ing another. One can more easily begin to 
apply and appreciate the axiom that a single 
picture is worth however many words are 
currently presumed to be its market value.
Augmenting the capabilities of the dis
play is a computer capable of at least a mil
lion instructions per second. This 
continued on page 7
STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
PRESIDENTIAL DEBATE
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 7 
6 p.m. IN THE WHERRETT ROOM
ALL STUDENTS ARE INVITED TO ATTEND 
AND QUESTIONS WILL BE ACCEPTED 
FROM THE AUDIENCE
BROADCAST ON JVRCT/88.3 FM
Funded by Student Activities F#

---------------------------------------------------

March 6, 1984The TartanPage 7
rime tips protect your automobiles and bicycles
prized bicycle.
5. If your bike is stolen and you dont 
have any way of identifying it as being 
- yours, chances are that youll never see 
it again. Record the serial number and 
other identifying information on the 
handy form provided. Keep this infor
mation where it wont be lost. Keep
ing a bill of sale and a color photo of 
the bicycle is also helpful. Engrave 
your bike with your social security 
number in a place where only you 
know about. Also engrave all 
accessories.
6. The campus police department has 
developed a bicycle registration pro
gram which will provide a reasonable 
account of the number of bicycles 
throughout the campus community. 
Benefit yourself by having your bike 
registered with the campus police 
office. Registration forms can be 
obtained by coming in person to the 
campus police office.
Help the campus police department 
protect your property and the property of 
others. Report any bike thefts or any suspi
cious activity near or in the bike parking 
areas to the campus police at x2323.
rhis is the scene of a potential crime.
Spring is just around the comer. Here are 
some good crime prevention tips from the 
ampus police office.
Protect your automobile
 Always lock your car doors.
 Try to park your car in a well lighted 
area.
 Avoid leaving property where it is vis
ible on the seats.
|Group invests 
in companies
sntinued from page 5
J982. At the end of 1982, 2,305 Wendys resiurants were operating in 49 states. Outside 
le U.S., Wendys owns 25 restaurants and 
franchises 100 others.
Wendys was presented to the Group as a 
hovered call option. A call option gives the 
[nvestor the right to purchase 100 shares of 
le stock at a given price of 20, and an 
pi ration date of June 20. Writing a call 
option enables the investor to control 100 
Shares of stock without having to buy the 
stock. This type of investment strategy is 
fairly conservative and relatively risk free 
/hen compared with other option 
Strategies.
Alpha Phi Omega
ntinued from page 5
Faculty Welfare Committee, and as an advijsor to the Beta Theta Pi fraternity.
The Kent D. Shaffer Memorial Scholar
ship is open to any undergraduate student at 
Camegie-Mellon University who feels they 
t exemplify the ideals of leadership, 
friendship, and service by which Professor 
haffer led his life and upon which Alpha 
Phi Omega is based. An applicant must be a 
full-time undergraduate student at CMU, 
not have been awarded this scholarship 
before, and not be a brother or pledge of A 
Phi O.
Applications may be picked up at the 
Skibo Information Desk, the Student Affairs 
office in Warner Hall, or at the A Phi O 
office in Skibo 54 beginning on Tuesday, 
March 6, 1984. They must be returned by 
5:00 pm on Friday, April 6,1984. The scho
larships will be awarded on May 2, 1984. If 
you have any questions, please call the A 
phi O office at 578-2116.
PREGNANT?
And you didn't moon to bo?a free pregnancy test and onfidential help, call
Birthright at621-1988
photo by Mike Pilewski
 Remember - - - lock it and pocket!
Protect your bicycle
1. Park your bicycle where you can keep 
an eye on it if at all possible. If this is 
not possible, make sure the bicycle is 
locked or chained.
2. Bicycle thefts are on the rise each year. 
There are several good bicycle anti
theft devices available. More informa
tion on these devices may be obtained 
from the campus police department.
3. Remember that a cheap lock or chain 
is worse than useless. The price of 
your bike is worth a little more invest
ment in choosing a locking 
mechanism.
4. The best locking devices are not an 
absolute guarantee against a deter
mined, tool-equipped thief. While 
care in locking gives a high degree of 
protection, insurance is still a sound 
investment when you own a highly
Saturdays provides campus 
with new, "unique concept'
By NEAL JOHNSTON
Tartan Features Editor
When is Morewood Gardens not Morewood Gardens? When its Saturday. Or 
more accurately, when its Saturdays.
Saturdays, the brainchild of Bob Choate, 
UDS Director, was created as an alternative 
for students who eat on campus. Touted as 
a unique concept in university cuisine, an 
experience there will certainly prove to be 
just that: unique.
Located in a screened off section of Morewood, Saturdays limited seating capacity 
creates a uniquely intimate atmosphere. 
From the creative artful lighting to the cen
terpiece on the table, the place exemplifies 
class for this campus.
The basic set-up is unlike any place on 
campus: tablecloths, water goblets, a salad 
cart, a candle for romantic moments, and 
three forks. Three forks? No tray on this 
campus has ever seen more than one at a 
time if any at all (depending on what and
how you eat).
The main attraction, however, is the fare 
offered at Saturdays. Covering the basics 
continued on page 20
ITC's arrow to 
mimic the mouse
continued from page 6
significandy changes the possibilities. I 
mentioned the arrow that mimics the 
mouse; this is done simply by instructions in 
the computer that note the mouse position 
and change the pixels on the screen.
This same speed permits very rapid page 
flipping as you read a document. There is 
even the exciting possibility of writing pro
grams to illustrate complex textbook mate
rial by showing animated images. Imagine, 
if you will, an illustration for this report 
with an image of an arrow moving while 
you read!
DOYOUTHMK
... todays technology represents only a feeble glimpse into the possible?
We do too! So, join us in probing the frontiers of science and technology 
with basic and applied research at sophisticated levels.
We are not probing just a few frontiers. Consider these: laser optics; in
frared electro-optical systems and fiber optics; microelectronics, semicon
ductors and semicustom IC/hybrid circuits; advanced control concepts, 
artificial intelligence, signal and imaging processing, robotics, CAD/CAM; 
gas turbine technology, fluid dynamics, combustion, aeroacoustics; mate
rials science; V/STOL technology, aeromechanics, applied mechanics; 
automotive technology; building systems technology; manufacturing tech
nology, NDE, industrial lasers; computer science, digital applications and 
operating systems.
During the remainder of this decade United Technologies plans to spend 
an average of $1 billion annually on R & D. Few other U.S. corporations 
make such substantial investments in their future.
CAMPUS INTERVIEWSMarch 13, 1984 
(See your College Placement Office)
If this interview date is inconvenient, please write to Mr. N.T. Marcin at 
the United Technologies Research Center, Silver Lane, East Hartford,
CT 06108.
U.S. Citizenship Required
UNITED
TECHNOLOGIES 
RESEARCH 
CENTER
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie-Mellon University
1984 Summer Session
Tentative Undergraduate and Graduate Courses for Summer Sessions
(1 )  Offered in the first session
(2)  Offered in the second session
(1 &2)  Course runs through both sessions (14 weeks)
 Graduate course number
Chemistry 
Civil Engineering
Computer Science
Mathematics
Mechanical Engineering
Metallurgy and 
Materials Science
Physics
Statistics.
Biomedical Engineering
Architecture
Design
Music (all courses ottered 
June 25 to August 3)
09-105Dynamics and Equilibria10 units(1)
09-117Organic Chemistry I9 units(1)
09-218Organic Chemistry II9 units(2)
12-110Introductory Engineering Economics9 units(1)
12-207Statics9 units(1)
12 208Dynamics9 units(2)
12-212Solid Mechanics/Solid Mechanics 
laboratory
1 2 units(2)
15-111Introduction to Computing B9 units(18(2)
15-118Introduction to Computing C9 units(18(2)
21-112Calculus II (H&SS)10 units(1)
21-121Calculus 110 units(1)(2)
21-122Calculus II10 units(1 ) (2)
21-127Dsicrete Mathematics of Computer 
Science
9 units(0(2)
21-259Methods ot Applied Math i9 units(0(2)
21-260Methods of Applied Math 119 units(0(2)
21-112Fluid Mechanics10 units(0
24-121Thermodynamics9 units(0
24-141Statics and Dynamics12 units(0
27-322Process Metallurgy1 2 units(18t2)
27-332Physical Metallurgy II9 units(18(2)
27-350Industrial Projects Seminar9 units(18(2)
27-390Industrial Internship Option0 units(18(2)
27-755'Metallurgical ProblemsVar units(18(2)
27-756'Masters ProjectVar units(18(2)
27-775'ThesisVar units(18(2)
39-300Analysis. Synthesis and Evaluation12 units(18(2)
33-121
33-122
Physics h Mechanics (self-paced) 
Physics II Heat Waves and Optics
10 units(0(2)
33-123
(self-paced)
Physics III: Electricity and Magnetism
10 units(0(2)
(self-paced)10 units(0(2)
33-129Electronics 110 units(0
36-101Statistical Concepts with Computer 
Applications
9 units(0(2)
36-209Probability and Applied Statistics for 
Management and Social Science I
9 units(1)
36-21,0Probability and Applied Statistics for 
Management and Social Science ll
9 units(0(2)
36-211Probability and Applied Statistics for 
Physical Science and Engineering 1
9 units(0(2)
36-212Probability and Applied Statistics for 
Physical Science and Engineering II
9 units(0(2)
36-215Probability and Statistics 19 units(0
36-216Probability and Statistics II9 units(2)
36-219Statistical Methods for Data Analysis I9 units(1)
36-220Statistical Methods for Data Analysis II9 units(0(2)
42-500Physiology (42-735)9 units(2)
42-560BME Undergraduate Projects9-12 units(0
48-280Architectural Design  level ll 
Elaboration
12 units(1)
51-102Introduction to Design18 units(2)
51-116Calligraphy9 units(2)
51-122Introduction to Photography9 units(0(2)
51-211Drawing9 units(0
51-381Symmetry. Structure and Form9 units(2)
57-151Harmony I6 units
57-181Sotfegel6 units
57-228Chamber Music3 units
57-255Counterpoint I6 units
57-257Orchestration 16 units
Administration and 
Management Science
tconomics
English
History
Philosophy 
Psychology 
Special Programs
Carnegie-Mellon University, during the 
summer, 1984, will hold two seven-week 
sessions as follows:
1 st seven-week session
May 15 - June 29
Regular Undergraduate Courses
2nd seven-week session 
July 2 - August 17
Regular Graduate and Undergraduate 
Courses
Undergraduate Tuition:
$66 per unit**  All undergraduates
Graduate Tuition:
$126 per unit** - CFA/H&SS/CIT/MCS 
$104 per unit**  M.A. and D.A. in English 
and History 
**  3 units = 1 credit
57-407Form and Analysis6 units
57-454Jazz Improvisation3 units
57-581Dalcroze Eurhythmies Workshop I 
(June 25 through June 29
3 units
57-000
Dalcroze Eurhythmies Workshop ii 
(June 25 through July 13)
Applied Study in voice, piano, organ 
harp, violin, viola, violincello, string, bass 
guitar, flute, oboe, clarinet, bassoon 
french horn, trumpet, trombone, tuba 
composition
9 units 
6-12 units
57-86 VAdministration and Supervision in 
Music Educqtion
6 units
57-873'Principles of Music Education6 units
57-875'Contemporary Problems in 
Music Education
6 units
60-1 1 7 31 7.71 VDrawing9 untts(2)
60-224Art and the Computer9 units(2)
60-228.328.728'Pamtmg9 units(2)
60 231 331 731'Beginning Screen Printing (May 1 5-June
0
Relief
9 units(1)
60-233.333733'9 units(2)
60-235.335.735'lithography9 units(2)
60-237.337.737-Intaglio9 units(2)
60-380.780'Contemporary Art9 units(2)
60-381independent Study 
Contemporary Issues in Art History 
(May 29-June 29)
9 units(1)
60-382Curatorial Practices (May 29-June 29)9 units(1)
70-101Elements of industrial Administration9 units(0(2)
70-121Accounting 19 units(0(2)
70-311Organizational Behavior 19 units(0
70-361Foundations of Law9 units(2)
70-371Production I9 units(1)
70-381Marketing I9 units(0
70-391Finance I9 units(0(2)
73-100Principles of Economics9 units(0(2)
73 250Intermediate Microeconomics9 units(0(2)
73-300, intermediate Macroeconimcs9 units(0(2)
73-360Econometrics9 units(0
76-100Strategies for Writing9 units(0(2)
76 101Reading Literature9 units(0(2)
76 244Shakespeare9 units(0(2)
76-265Survey of Genres Poetry9 units(O
76-270Writing for the Professions9 units(1)(2)
76-301internship0-18 units(0(2)
76-351.751'American Studies American Prose and 
Poetry
9 units(1)
76-371.771'Rhetoric in Social Interaction9 units(2)
76-431/831'Advanced Studies in World literature 
Drama of the Absurd
9 units(2)
76-441/841'Advanced Studies in Literature 
Chaucer
9 units(1)
76-442/842-Advanced Studies in British literature: Tennyson, Browning. Arnold9 units(1)
76-471internship in Technical Writing and 
Editing
9 units(0(2)
76-901'Internship English9 units(2)
79-307Twentieth Century America9 units(0(2)
79-308Recent American Foreign Policy9 units(0
79 356The Second World War9 units(0
80 354Social-Political Philosophy9 units(1)
85-101General Psychology9 units(0
European Studies Program Military Science - Army ROTC
PARIS. 1984  June 5 throiugh July 31 Intensive Summer Study Program 
GERMANY. 1984 - June 11 through August. 1984 
August 3
School of Urban &. Public Affairs
Pittsburgh Smyphony Orchestra/ QSSI/QSSP Workshops
Carnegie-Mellon University June 10 through August 3 
Summer Music institute 
June 25 through August 3
This is a "tentative" list of courses to be 
offered. The actual list of courses including 
class schedules will be announced and pub
lished depending upon student response.
Application materials and further 
information will be mailed upon receipt of 
your inauiry.
Please give your tentative reply as soon 
as possible by completing the attached 
form and returning it to:
Director, Summer Studies 
Carnegie-Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
Phone: (412)578-6620
Carnegie-Mellon University
Name______________________________________
\
Mailing Address____________________________-
Present School.
am interested in the following courses: 
Course No. Title Session
Please return this form to:
Director, Summer Studies 
Carnegie-Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213

---------------------------------------------------

_ _____ Entertainment.
English bands invade Pittsburgh in recent concerts
Adam Ant and The Romantics give a show to remember
By RIC MEDROW
Tartan Editor in Chief
If youve never seen a concert at the Stan
ley, youve missed something special.
The sellout crowd of 3,500 at the February 
22 concert created an atmosphere at which 
1 The Romantics were able to 
play serious music, while Adam 
Ant used the full potential of a 
small audience to show off his 
inumate, almost shy, sex appeal.
The Romantics hardly stirred the 
audience to a frenzy. In fact, it may have 
been the quietest crowd ever to witness a first 
half of a rock concert. But in a pop age, The 
Romantics are one of the few groups still 
able to remember the origins of the music 
they play.
The harmonica in Rock You Up was 
reminiscent of old J. Geils Band. What the 
experts call good ol rock n roll.
But never let it be said that The Roman
tics cant appeal to the masses. It seems that 
every album they put out has one or two 
pop songs that sell their rock. With In 
Heat, its Talking In Your Sleep which 
transformed the audience from intent listen
ers to rabid screamers. Then they did a 
repeat scream-song with their finale, What 
I Like About You.
It wasnt the last time the predominantly 
female, median aged 16 audience was to 
scream.
Adam Ant may be pop, and he may 
appeal mostly to teeny-boppers. But the 
man is subtle, and the man is a performer.
The lights went down, and the crowd 
stood up. An English voice, Adams of 
course, asked Is every body sitting comforta
bly? If anybody had been, they stood up at 
that line. Then we might as well begin. 
Up came the curtain to reveal a scaffolding, 
photo by Allan Ballard and it was quiet.
Adam Ant, and his warm-up band The Romantics, thrilled 3,500 Pittsburghers on Feb- A spot hit the keyboardist, who put on his
ruary 22. headphones, and played a single note, that
set everything in motion.
Different colored spots hit the two 
drummers on the scaffolding who started 
drumming. Recall that Phil Collins plays 
drums on Strip, so it took two drummers to 
compensate.
Out came two guitarists, then a third, big, 
dumb looking guitarist each with his own 
spot. Then it was the same story with the 
trumpeter and saxophonist.
Adam Ant may not be much of a musi
cian, but his band made up for that. That 
left Adam free to do what he does best  be a 
showman. Being male, I guess my judg
ment isnt of much value, but I sure do wish 
I could move like that man. Michael Jack
son, eat your heart out.
He began each song speaking the first line 
 a gimmick that endeared him to his 
audience to say the least. In a British voice of 
course, Its at times like this, the great 
heaven knows, that we wish we had not so 
many clothes. If you were 16 and female, 
youd be pretty endeared by that too. In fact, 
he collected a full wardrobe of girls under
wear with it. Anyway, the point is hes a 
performer.
In classic Adam Ant style, he did a 
finale-like song, Goody Two Shoes, and 
left, which quite expectedly brought chants 
of Adam, Adam. For a moment I thought 
he was seriously gone when the stage crew 
seemed to pack up. Instead, the crew was 
actually setting up the Grand EncoreFinale. They moved a big object out of the 
way to reveal Adam in a tank full of water 
wearing nothing but rather brief briefs and 
leg warmers with a bright crimson light 
illuminating the water. He then broke into a 
rendition of Physical (Youre So).
Anyway, the concert passed the test that 
any good show should. When I hit the air 
outside, I was dancing and my hands and 
feet felt tingly. Besides, maybe I learned a 
few new moves.
Duran Duran warms themselves upand Pgh., too!
if on cue, thousands of pre-pubescent females screamed 
ivhen the cameramen focused on Roger, John, or Nick, 
regardless of whether or not they were playing.
By NEIL J. GREENBLUM
Tartan News Editor 
Two inches of snow and near-zero visibil
ity could not keep 10,000 screaming fans 
away from Duran Durans Pittsburgh debut 
last Tuesday evening at the Civic Arena.
The band is amidst their third 
tour of America in support of 
the album Seven And The 
Ragged Tiger, platinum after 
only four weeks on the American charts.
The show was good but not great. Duran 
Duran has a great studio sound, and they 
were able to recreate it well in a medium
sized venue like the Arena.
At about 10 before eight, five fashionablydressed young men came onto an empty
s(age and so poorly trudged through a six^ng set that the entering crowd could not 
even guess their motives. Duran Duran was 
their own opening act, and a terrible one at 
that- I (and several others) almost left until 
We found it was intentional.
On the stroke of nine, the lights again 
came up to the sound of lead vocalist Simon 
LeBon imploring Please please tell me 
novv  . This time we knew it was really 
Duran Duran.
I/ Bon and company moved to their 
lesser-known songs from Seven and the 
debut album Duran Duran, released in 1981
and again last April. Dancing decreased, but 
the crowd was instead mesmerized by a 
video screen projected over the stage. As if on 
cue, thousands of pre-pubescent females 
screamed when the cameraman focused on 
Roger, John, or Nick, regardless of whether 
or not they were playing. As Andy pointed 
out, Its been said that we could probably 
go up onstage and fart and it wouldnt make 
any difference.
After nearly an hour and a half, the band
photo by Brian Am
Five men from Birmingham wowed a Civic Arena crowd in a solid but predictable concert.
Is There Something I Should Know?, 
Hungry Like the Wolf, their latest single 
New Moon on Monday, and Union of 
the Snake came back to back, with the 
entire house dancing to a sound LeBon calls 
ambition. John Taylors bass was flaw
less, Andy Taylors (no relation) guitar 
timely, Roger Taylors (no relation to either 
Taylor colleague) drumming relendess, and 
Nick Rhodes keyboards and makeup per
fectly distributed. The line-up was aug
mented by a saxophonist, a percussionist, 
and two vocalists from Chic.
left, and then returned with their 1982 top10 smash Rio. They again left, and I fig
ured it was over because I couldnt think of 
any other song they didnt do.
Well, I forgot the Grammy Awardwinning video Girls on Film, an MTV 
favorite. LeBon took the camera and 
panned across the first several rows of the 
floor. Several of CMUs finest postpubescent females were shown on the video 
screen, much to everyones surprise. As one 
girl put it later, Hes (LeBon) so 
incredible!
Not incredible, but a solid performance 
from one of Englands finest new acts. 
Three-fifths of the band find their toots in 
Birmingham, the Pittsburgh of England. 
Could that explain Duran Durans success?

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanMarch 6, 1984
Screen TestStanley Kubrick needs actors for new film
Director Stanley Kubrick, whose films 
include, 2001: A Space Odyssey, A Clock
work Orange, Dr. Strangelove and The 
Shining, is conducting a nation-wide tal
ent search for new faces to play the parts of 
young Marines in his new film FULL 
METAL JACKET, based on the novel 
The Short-Timers by Gustav Hasford 
who served as a Marine in Vietnam from 
1967 to 1968.
Filming will begin in the Autumn of 
1984.
The story follows 18 year-old marine 
recruit, Private Joker, from his camage-andmachismo initiation rites at the Marine 
Corp Parris Island training camp, where his 
drill instructor brags about the marksman
ship of ex-marines Lee Harvey Oswald and 
Charles Whitman, to his climactic involve
ment in the heavy' fighting in Vietnam dur
ing the 1968 Tet offensive.
Anyone interested in doing an audition 
video tape for a part in this film should 
follow the instrurfions below.
1. Use a Vi inch VHS or Sony Betamax 
home video recorder and camera 
set-up.
2. If the VHS recorder runs at two
speeds use the faster of the two 
speeds.
3. Wear a T-shirt and pants.
4. Start the video recording with 
about a 3 minute acting scene. Do 
any scene you think appropriate 
and with which you feel 
comfortable.
5. Next, do about a minute or so tell
ing something about yourself and
your interests.
Next, hold up a piece of paper on 
which you have clearly printed 
your name, address, phone 
number, age, and date of birth. 
While you are doing this say the 
same information out loud.
Last of all, do a close-up and a full 
length shot of yourself on the 
video, from a front view and a left
and right profile.
8. Stick a label onto the cassette with 
your name, address, telephone 
number and age clearly printed on 
it. Unfortunately, none of the 
videotapes can be returned.
9. Air Mail the casette in a padded bag 
to Stanley Kubrick, Warner Bros., 
135 Wardour Street, London, WlV 
4AP, England.
r
Woodworking on display in Hewlett Gallery
An exhibition of works by Phillip M. 
Harris, visiting artist at CMU, will take 
place in the Hewlett Gallery from Saturday, 
March 3 to Thursday, March 22
Harris, a graduate of East Carolina Uni
versity and Washington University, creates 
three-dimensional wall constructions of 
wood, fiberglass screen, paint and light.
He says of his work: I grew up in a large, 
rural southeastern family of woodworkers. 
The construction of things from wood was 
an ongoing process, the reasons ranging 
from subsistence to recreation to the basis for
the social structure of the family. Fabricat
ing with wood and paint is instinctive to 
me. And light is very important; it is the 
stimulus for the sense of sight  the raw 
material of vision. These instincts and choi
ces form the basis for the process, form and 
content of my work.
Harris, who will also have a show in June 
at Carnegie Institute Museum of Art along 
with seven other artists, has shown his work 
at the School of Art Annual Juried Exhibi
tion, East Carolina University; Juried Exhi
bition of North Carolina Artists, Kingston
Center for the Arts; Marietta NationalPainting and Sculpture Exhibition; Telic 81 
International Constructivist Invitational 
Exhibition, Art Research Center, Kansas 
City, MO; 23rd Annual Midwestern United 
States Invitational, Plains Museum of Art, 
Moorhead, MN; and the Northeastern Uni
ted States Invitational Exhibition, Univer
sity Museum, Indiana, PA.
The Hewlett Gallery in CFA is open to 
the public free of charge from 11 a.m. to 4 
p.m., Tuesday to Friday; noon to 4 p.m., 
Saturday; and 1 to 4 p.m., Sunday.Ducatelli, Goodman and Sauer exhibit opens
By KEITH RECKER
Special for the Tartan
Carolyn Ducatelli, Beth Goodman and 
Patti Sauers will exhibit their work this 
week at the Forbes Gallery. Their show 
opens today with a celebration from 7 to 9 
p.m.
Carolyn Ducatelli, an illustration major, 
plans to include her drawings, photo
graphs, weavings and some illustration 
work in the show. She is interested in primi
tive symbols and much of her work has a 
graphic quality, an immediate readability, 
which comes from this interest. Many of the 
symbols she incorporates into her work are 
taken from early Christian and medieval art, 
sometimes given modem color treatment, 
and subdy changed.
Beth Goodman will show her drawings 
and illustration work. Birds are a recurring 
theme in Goodmans imagery. Each of these 
birds is caged, confined, constricted by forces
whose origin the viewer cannot see. Much of 
the work is in color, and Goodmans color 
choices say a good deal about the character 
of each piece; the reds, oranges and blacks in 
her work are tortured and jarring.
Patti Sauers works realistically. In her 
drawings and illustration work care and 
spontaneity are easily discerned. Says Sau
ers, I dont really know exactly how a piece 
will come out when I start, but I start and 
watch what develops  like watching a
photograph develop.
The variety of expression and 
effect she is able to capture is wide. In one of 
these portraits, assembled from the features 
of several people, Old Lady, Sauers 
catches an extremely rich face in a quizzical 
moment. It is a humorous, charming piece.
Ducatelli, Goodman, and Sauers will be 
at the Forbes Gallery until March 10. 
Gallery hours are Wednesday-Friday, 11 
a.m.-6 p.m.; Saturday, noon to 5 p.m.
rtoiEdnChennf -1SwTa9 
proudly invites you
'ENSsOSto&r
SATURDAYS
e/4 Unique Concept iti University' Cuisine I
Every Saturday
Relax Enjoy' 
full table service
Tempting Appetizers 
Selected Entrees
 BaW Sole en Cnmte
 linguim "Wra Cruz.
 Filet AAigncm.
 Savannah Fbrk Rib Roast:
 Chuj^n Breast Pnigmirdine
 Prime Rjb of Beef 844 E,9
Scrumptious Salad Cart 
Delicious Desserts

---------------------------------------------------

March 6, 1984The TartanPage 11
Visiting
I Art Department at Canartists hold classes, exhibits at CMU
The Art Department at Camegie-Mellon 
iversity will sponsor ^woodworker 
endy Maruyama as an artist-in-residence 
March 5 to 9. Students and the public 
v observe Maruyama at work from 9 a.m. 5 p.m., Monday to Friday, during her
it.
Maruyama, an instructor at the Appalian Center for Crafts in Smithville, 
nn., has received awards from the Tensee Arts Commission and the National 
dowment for the Arts and has won the 
land E. Vollmer Award for Design ExcellCe Her work is in the Hunter Museum of 
t in Chattanooga and in many private 
llections.
Maruyama will deliver a lecture at 8 p.m., 
[ednesday, March 7 in 7500 Wean Hall, 
reservations contact the CMU Art 
Apartment at 578-2409.
The Music Department at CMU will offer 
ree masterclass with violinist Daniel Phil,s for area students from 3 to 7 p.m., Wedsday, March 7 in Alumni Concert Hall,
A.
Interested students from area colleges and 
universities as well as those studying pri
vately must present a performance tape to be 
considered for the class.
I For further information on the class, con|Jct the CMU Music Department at 578-
72.
The Art Department of Camegie-Mellon 
University will sponsor glassworker Dale 
Chihuly as an artist-in-residence from 
March 12 to 16. Students and the public may 
observe Chihuly at work from 9 a.m. to 5
p.m., Monday to Friday, during his visit.
Chihuly, a native of Tacoma, Washing
ton, divides his time between the Rhode 
Island School of Design and the Pilchuck 
Glass Center in Washington, D.C., which
he founded.
Chihuly will deliver a lecture at 8 p.m., 
Wednesday, March 14 in 7500 Wean Hall. 
For reservations contact the CMU Art 
Department at 578-2409.
f#Writers Guild sponsors "Reading at Forbes
The CMU Writers Guild is sponsoring 
its second reading of the semester on Thurs
day, March 8 at 7:00 p.m. at the Forbes 
Gallery, 5200 Forbes Avenue. Formerly 
called sWordance, the series of student 
readings have been retitled Readings at 
Forbes.
This Thursdays Reading at Forbes will 
feature seniors Cath McCafferty and Keith 
Recker and junior Lauren Schneider. 
McCafferty, who is active with Dossier and
who is majoring in writing, will be reading 
one of her fiction pieces.
* Recker, also a writing major, feels that 
all of my poems are about conflicts and the 
things you think about only when youre 
alone. His main topics are people and rela
tionships and, says Recker, the things you 
cant say to people either because you love 
them too much or because you hate their 
guts.
Schneider, who is also reading poetry,
writes a lot about her family and, she says, a 
kind of working class theme. I think my 
poetry strives less to be an artistic statement 
than something communicative. Its like 
(poet) Philip Levine says about his work 
that he writes poetry for people for whom 
poetry is not normally written. One of 
Schneiders pieces, On Stuttering, was 
recendy accepted by the Cimarron Review.
Readings at Forbes are free and open to 
the public.
Selections from Swan Lake to be performed
The strains of Tchaikovskys Swan Lake 
will resound amidst the elegance of Carnegie 
Music Hall when the Pittsburgh Ballet 
Theatre performs excerpts from that ballet 
on Saturday, March 10 at 12 noon. The free 
45-minute program is being presented by 
Gateway to Music and is sponsored by Pitts
burgh National Bank. In conjunction with 
the performance, a collection of costumes, 
posters, props, and pointed shoes will be 
displayed in the Music Hall Foyer and 
dancers in costume will be stationed
r
PENNSYLVANIA GOVERNORS SCHOOL FOR
THE SCIENCES
Undergraduate summer employment at CMU will be available with the Pennsylva
nia Governors School for the Sciences. The PGSS is a five-week summer school for 
very talented high school students from Pennsylvania. Teaching Assistant/Counselor 
appointments will be available for biology, chemistry, and physics laboratories as well 
as tutorial duties in computer science and mathematics.
Preference will be given to scholastically sound applicants. You will be expected to 
simultaneously serve as dormitory counselors and to live in the same dormitory as the 
PGSS students, see that PGSS disciplinary rules are adhered to, provide tutorial help 
in the academic program, and arrange social activities.
Stipend for five and one-half week period: $1400.00 
Free room and board
Applications for an interview available in biology, chemistry, physics and mathe
matics departmental offices or the PGSS office. For further information, contact 
Professor Caretto, Ext. 6669.
Application Deadline: March 30, 1984
Serve in Appalachia
This summer the Glenmary Home Missioners, a society of Catholic priests and Brothers, are offering opportunities for 
Catholic men to serve the poor of Appalachia. These volunteer programs will enhance 
your perception of those in need. Come and learn with Glenmary. Your choice of week-long sessions is avail
able as follows:
May 19-25,1984 
June 9-15,1984 
July 21-27,1984 
August 4-10,1984
For more information, please complete the coupon 
below and forward it to: Reverend Jerry Dorn, Glenmary Home Missioners, Box 46404, Cincinnati, Ohio 
45246.
Name. 
College. 
Address. 
City____
Age.
Year of Study.
State.Zip.
throughout the building to usher visitors 
into the hall.
One of ballets most popular works, Swan 
Lake was written by Peter Ilyich Tchai
kovsky, a Russian composer who lived from 
1840 to 1893. A dramatic ballet in four acts, 
this romantic story of the lovelorn Swan 
Queen was first performed with choreo
graphy in 1877 by the Bolshoi Ballet in
Moscow.
Gateway to Music, a group that takes per
forming arts programs (music, opera, dance, 
and theater) into area schools to teach them 
about music, presented two Brass Quintet 
Concerts at Carnegie Institute in December. 
For more information about the March 10 
presentation or any of Gateway to Musics 
special programs, call 421-2251.
Telephone (_
WINNERS OF THE VALENTINE DAY 
GIVEAWAY IN THE BOOK STORE
Gayle GarmiseTV
David BrownCandy
Donna SenkeCandy
Clea RodwanCandy
Richard GreenCandy
ICELANDAIR IS STILL YOUR BEST VALUE TO EUROPE.LUXEMBOURG
R0UNDTRIP FROM:
NEW YORK<5M
BALTIMORE/WASHINGTON
ALSO LOW COST SERVICE TO PARIS, FRANKFURT AND NICE. REMEMBER, ONLY ICELANDAIR FLIES YOU TO THE BREATHTAKING BEAUTY OF ICELAND. AND INCLUDES ALL THESE EXTRAS:
 Free deluxe motorcoach from Luxembourg to select cities in Germany, Belgium and Holland.  Bargain train fares to Switzerland and France.  Super Saver car rentals from $69/week in Luxembourg.  Free wine with dinner, cognac after.Super APEX Fares. May 1-June 9. 1984. 7-60 day stay. 14 day advance purchase required. Icelandair to Luxembourg. Luxair connecting service to other destinations. Purchase tickets in U. S. All fares subject to change and government approval. See your travel agent or call 800/555-1212 for the toll-free Icelandair number in your area.
ICELANDAIRNOW MORI THAN IViR YOUR BIST VAlUl TO IUR0PI

---------------------------------------------------

FRESHMEN
3-Year Full Tuition 
Scholarships
Available Through
Army Officer Commissioning Program
(Current Participation is Not Required)
Application Period: 
Eligibility:
Selection Criteria:
Benefits:
Now until mid-April 
Scholarship begins in the fall term
^ ::v
 2.8 cumulative Q.P.A. or better
 Full-time student
 Be less than 25 years of age on 30 June.of 
graduating year
Based primarily on evaluation of academic 
achievement, leadership potential and degree of 
success in college.
Pays all tuition costs, fees, fixed rate on books 
and supplies and provides $100 per month in 
school financial assistance (for up to 10 months 
each year the scholarship is in effect).
For further information, contact 
Captain Michael Schulte, Carnegie-Mellon University 
at (412) 578-2205, return the enclosed student 
inquiry or visit our office at Margaret Morrison Hall, 
2nd basement
CMUEMS
Meets 2nd and 4th Wednesday of each Month  Next meeting:
March 7 
8 p.m. 
Meet in front of 
Woodtawn
Join US! You need not be certified to Join
emu bookstore*
IN BAKER HALLFUNDED BY STUDENT ACTWfnES
THE BUSINESS BOOK THAT MEANS BUSINESS FOR YOU!
Highly acclaimed and highly optimistic about the future of American management, 
In Search of Excellence proves that American business is alive and well  and 
successful! Subtitled Lessons from Americas Best-Run Companies, it reveals the 
secrets of the art of successful American management, the eight fascinating basic 
principles that the authors found hard at work at Johnson & Johnson, Proctor & 
Gamble, IBM, Hewlett Packard, Delta Airlines, McDonalds, and other well-run 
firms.
MENS RUGBY TEAM  
vs.
DRAVOSBURG )
SATURDAY MARCH IO
p hotby Cli
ONI.MFIELD
MARCH5I.U.P (4-4)
MARCHtoDRAVO. (Komei
APRILTAMERICAN U. (uf )
APRIL15BE ADLING (Komei
APRIL2W.VU. Uoyi
IN SEARCH OF EXCELLENCE/S8.95
Thomas J. Peters and 
Robert H. Waterman, Jr.

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
CMU finishes season with win over Thiel
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Sports Editor
It has been a long season, with few silver 
linings to surround the clouds. But for the 
Tartan mens basketball team, it seems as if 
the clouds may be breaking.
CMU ended the 1983-84 season with a 
victory over Thiel, 74-58. It was the Tartans 
best overall team effort this season. Four 
players scored in double figures, led by 
Richard Neffs 16 points. Greg Gabriel, Bob 
Kukowski and John Taormina all had 
twelve points apiece. Kukowski also pulled 
down eleven rebounds, while Dwayne 
Waite had eight.
Despite finishing with a 5-16 record, the 
worst record since Rudy Yaksich coached 
CMU to a 4-16 record in 1974-75, the Tar
tans made improvements in the second half 
of the season. Although only winning three 
of their last ten, the Tartans lost three games 
by a total of eight points, and lost to W 8c J 
by just five. In the second of two games 
against PAC champion Hiram, the Tartans 
lost by just one, 57-56, although they out
played the Terriers.
Ten games back, sophomore Ray Bren
nan and junior Dwayne Waite were inserted 
into the starting lineup. CMU lost that 
game to W 8c J, but Brennan scored 22 
points, while Waite had 18 points and 19 
rebounds. Waite finished fourth in the con
ference in rebounding. Although a junior, 
Waite has sophomore eligibility, meaning 
he can play two more years if he so desires. 
He adds a dimension the Tartans were with
out; a powerful inside player.
Brennan added scoring punch when he 
was in the game, and finished the season
with a 93 percent free throw percentage. 
Brennans playing time decreased toward 
the end of the season, not because of his 
deficiencies, but because of the play of 
reserve guard Taormina.
Taormina, a junior, finished second on 
the team in conference scoring with 9.5 
points per game. He averaged 16 points over 
the last five games, including a career high 
25 points against W 8c J. Taormina led the 
Tartans in field goal percentage, shooting 
48 percent, including 62 percent for the final 
five.
Neff scored in double figures three of the 
last five games, and improved greatly in key 
areas of his game, most importantly in get
ting inside position.
Kukowski, who had a poor stretch in the 
middle of the season, led the Tartans in 
rebounding in four of the last seven games. 
He finished the season with a 9.4 point per 
game average, second on the team.
Young players who should make a bigger 
impact next year include freshman David 
Bart and sophomore Tom Suckling. Bart is 
a smooth player who makes few errors. Suck
ling, at 6'3", 195 pounds is a force under 
the boards.
The key to next year is continued 
improvement among all the players. There 
are still many questions. Will Gabriel 
emerge as a team leader? Can Taormina 
keep scoring at his season-ending pace? 
Next year will be the judge.
In other PAC action, Hiram defeated 
John Carroll last week to win the conference 
title. Hiram guard Rusty Swartz, who fin
ished second to Case Westerns Todd Johnsson for the scoring title, was named the 
conferences Most Valuable Player. He
'illCMU 74 Thiel58
THIEL (58)FGFTTPCMU (74)FGFTTP
Harp5-144-714Kukowski6-1300
Miale0-30-00Waite2-40-04
Callihan, T1-10-12Neff7-112-616
Vanderveen5-110-010Gabriel6-140-112
Bingham3-100-06Brennan3-82-28
Pilipovich2-94-48Taormina4-44-412
Puhalj2-20-04Sendek,0-22-32
Callihan, J3-30-06Debsld1-4,2-34
Nystrom1-20-12Suckling0-10-00
Terlizzi0-02-22Gestrich1-20-12
Kuzma2-40-04Bart0-00-00
Rupert0-00-00Saxton1-20-02
Totals24-5910-1558Totals31*6512-2074
FG% - CMU .477, Thiel .407. Rebounds- CMU 45 (Kukowski 11), Thiel 37 (Harp 12)
Assists - CMU 21 (Gabriel 9), Thiel 10 (Pilipovich 3). Turnovers * CMU 7, Thiel 12.
Halftime: CMU 36-22___________________________________________________Ice Tartans lose on road
By JOHN KENNEY
Tartan Staffivriter
The CMU Ice Tartans traveled to Kent 
State, Ohio, for Friday and Saturday night 
games, and then returned home to meet 
Allegheny for the final match of their regu
lar season.
The Kent Golden Flashes, a NCAA Div
ision I-A team, showed their superiority 
right from the start, scoring- their first goal 
just 14 seconds into the game. They were 
faster and far better practiced than the Tar
tans, and routed CMU by a score of 11-0.
The second game was much the same, 
and, although the Tartans played considera
bly better, they were unable to escape 
another routing. ITiey did manage to score 
three goals; Tim Girl in, Andy Andrejko, 
and Kevin Scully each netting one apiece, 
with assists by Caleb Gorkery, Tim Kenny, 
Paul Russo, and, again, Andrejko and 
Vully. Kent State showed its superiority 
once again, though, scoring twelve goals to
The Season In Review
Opponents'LeadingLeading
CMUOpponentScoreScorerRebounder
69Denison (A)65Gabriel, 
Bennett 18
Neff 
Debski 7
84Rochester (A)79Gabriel 24Neff, 
Saxton 8
68Oberlin (H)76Bennett 15Neff 13
72Westminster (H)95Bennett 18Neff 8
57Muskingum (H)64Bennett, 
Kukowski 15
Neff 10
51Wittenberg (A)81Bennett 12Bennett 7
45Capital (A)75Bennett, 
Gabriel 12
Neff, 
Sendek 5
57Bethany (H)61Gabriel 12Debski 12
62Case Reserve (A)86Debski 28Debski L0
63John Carroll (A)79Gabriel: 20Saxton 7
46Allegheny (H)61Gabriel 18Taormina 6
60W & J (H)65Brennan 22Waite 19
51 -Hiram (A)64Gabriel 20Neff 11
78Thiel (A)71Gabriel ISWaite 12
63Case Reserve (H)62Gabriel 24Kukowski, 
Debski 7
34Bethany (A)36Kukowski 11Kukowski 9
70Allegheny (A)83Taormina 20Kukowski, 
Debski 7
62John Carroll (H)71Neff 18Neif,
Waite 10
56Hiram (H)57Kukowski 15Waite 12
72W & J (A)96Taormina 25Waite 4
74Thiel (H)58Neff 16Kukowski 11
Overall record: 5-16 
Home: 2-8 
Away: 3-8 _____
made the first team all-conference squad 
along with his brother Rod Swartz, Johnsson, JCUs Herb Cunningham and Thiels 
Victor Harp. Bethanys Doug Black, who 
sat out the second half of the season due to
an injury, was honored by the coaches who 
voted to have Black as the sixth man on the 
first team. CMUs Gabriel, who was a 
second team selection, finished fourth in 
assists and sixth in scoring.
CMUs three.
Overall, it was a rough weekend for the 
Tartans and, after two crushing defeats and 
one very late night out, they headed home to 
face Allegheny on Sunday afternoon.
Proving themselves worthy of their first 
place status, CMU overpowered the Gators 
and cruised to an easy 7-2 victory.
Allegheny didnt accept defeat very grace
fully though, and as they became more and 
more frustrated the game became increas
ingly violent. Overall, 41 penalty minutes 
were handed out, including ten minutes fora 
misconduct penalty on the Gators.
This time it was CMU who did the rout
ing and, after Caleb Corkery broke the ice in 
the first period, the offense had a field day. 
Steve Kruse* and Rob Katz scored two goals 
each, and Eric Sprey, Scully, and Bob Koch 
each chipped in one apiece.
The Tartans will face Duquesne Wednes
day night in the first round of the playoffs. 
For information on the game call x4498.
Photo bv John Rogers
The continued improvement of center Rich Neff, shown here battling for a rebound against 
Bethany, is a key to next years Tartans.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanMarch 6, 1984
Women can't overtake W&J in league tourney
By MARGARET WISMER
Tartan Staffwritcr
They were almost the Cinderella Team of 
the Pennwood West; a mere layup away 
from shocking everyone with a major upset 
against conference leaders Washington 8c 
Jefferson. When it came down to the last 
two minutes, however, the womens basket
ball team couldnt get the glass slippers on 
in time and lost 54-47.
Though they had proven their ability as a 
comparable entity by playing neck and neck 
with W8cJ through 45 minutes, their luck 
had run out. As the clock revealed the final 
time, W8cJ put their act together and 
flaunted the style that made them champs 
by connecting on two 3-point plays.
Looking back, Coach Kathy Paczkowski
believes that they should have played a 
man-to-man defense to get more pressure on 
the ball handlers. She added tht it was the 
best they played all year. This is certainly 
true of freshman Val Sooky, who showed 
promise for the future with an impressive 14 
points and showed her usual quickness.
The veterans Laurie Arendas and Michele 
Schlegel played well offensively and defen
sively by scoring 10 and 8 points and getting 
five and 12 rebounds respectively. Nancy DiIulio kep up her consistency with eleven 
points.
Emotionally and physically drained by 
the game on Friday, the Tartans couldnt 
find the same incentive to beat Bethany in 
the consolation game on Saturday. Its not 
that everyone wasnt trying to win, but the 
ball wasnt moving well enough to hold off 
the 76-64 loss.
Turnovers were a big problem and werent 
balanced with the usual number of steals. 
Though there were plenty of attempts on 
the basket, there simply wasnt a good 
enough percentage made.
With 25 points, Arendas earned her way 
onto the all-tournament team. Dilulio and 
Munn had 11 points each but got into foul 
trouble early. Kelly Diffin filled in as a wing 
guard and played the defense well. Over the 
whole tournament, the team got lots of help 
from the bench, showing lots of hope for the 
next season.
The championships ended with W8cJ 
beating Seton Hill in the final game on 
Saturday.
The Season In Review
OpponentsLeadingLeading
CMUOpponentsScoreScorerRebounder
64Grove City (H)58Schlegel 17Howard 14
48PSU-Behrend (A)64Arendas 12Schlegel 17
40Buffalo St. (A)64Howard 14Howard 12
55Point Park (H)64Howard 18Arendas 16
66Geneva (A)74Arendas 16Schlegel, 
Howard 10
30Fairmont St. (A)100Munn 8Munn 10
39Seton Hill (H)49Dilulio 9Schlegel 14
49Wheeling (H)83Dilulio 12Schlegel 13
38Carlow (H)60Arendas 12Arendas 11
49St. Francis (A)83Munn 17Schlegel 16
53Fhiel (A)77Dilulio 19Arendas 11
53W 8c J (H)75Arendas 21Schlegel, 
Munn 9
48Bethany (H)45Arendas, 
Schlegel 14
Sooky 19
33Allegheny (A)77Arendas 13Arendas 10
56Seton Hill (A)61Schlegel 28Arendas 9
46Carlow (A)71Arendas, 
Sooky, 
Schlegel 10
Arendas 12
51St. Francis (H)56Arendas 15Munn 15
52W 8c J (A)71Schlegel 16Schlegel
53Bethany (A)58Arendas 18Schlegel 17Wrestling tournament deemed successful by Birdy
By DAVE LAFYATIS
Tartan Staffivriter
As part of the continuing effort to bring 
wresding back to Camegie-Mellon, the 
CMU Intramural Wrestling Tournament 
took place Saturday in the Gymnasium. 
Twenty-five participants were divided up 
into six weight classifications, ranging from 
126 pounds to heavyweight, and then 
battled to determine who the real men 
were. Throughout the competition, one 
thing became clear: there are many excellent 
wresders on campus, and it is unfortunate
that the sport no longer has varsity status at 
CMU.
After the preliminary and semi-final 
rounds, the championship matches had to 
be moved from the Main Gym to Thistle 
Hall because of a power outage. In the 
finals, the matches were tense and exciting. 
The best match-up of the round featured 145 
pounders Reid Sclafani and James Polire. 
After trailing by two points for the whole 
final period, Sclafani scored a reversal and a 
near-pin in the last 10 seconds to pull out a
6-4 victory. Another good match was the 180 
pound final between Tom Frost and John 
McNamara, which McNamara won by a 
narrow 2-1 score. The 170 pound and heavy
weight classes were decided by falls, with 
Dave Lafyatis and Marc Muster being victor
ious. George Lamb was declared the winner 
in the 126 pound class after his opponent 
Alan Agulnick was forced to default due to a 
thumb injury'.
The strongest weight class of all, however, 
was the 160 pound class, which was run as a
round-robin. Jim Strelow had to win two 
tough matches over Peter Visconti and Joe 
Kuefler in order to claim the championship. 
Visconti edged Kuefler to take second place.
After the tournament, organizer Kuefler 
stated, Hopefully next year we can make 
this into a club sport at CMU. Intramural 
Commissioner E. J. Birdy said that the tour
nament was one of the best ever at the 
college. The wrestlers are planning to con
tinue working out Saturdays at 3:00 in This
tle Hall.
DOMINOSPIZZADELIVERSFREE.
Collect them
Every time you order a 
pizza from Domino's Pizza, 
clip the value dot tab and 
save it.
Save five value dot tabs 
and get your next 16" oneitem pizza FREE.
Expires: 4/30/84
Call Us!681-1700
310 N. Craig St.
Save four value dot tabs 
and get your next 12"^ oneitem pizza FREE.
Redeem them at any 
participating Domino's 
Pizza in your area. Good 
for a limited time only.
For APizza!
Hours:
11 am-2am Sun.-Thurs. 
11 am-3am Fri. & Sat.
Our drivers carry less 
than $20.00.
Limited delivery area.
 1963 Domino Pizza Inc
DominosPizza

---------------------------------------------------

Come See Pittsburghs
Finest Fitness Center Just 
Minutes Away on Forbes 
Avenue in Oakland 
with Nautilus Aerobics 
bv Body Technics.
 3 Complete Nautilus Circuits (30 machines)
(All the best in Nautilus)
^  Free co-ed Aerobics
* Whirlpool & Saunas
& <y<y^K  Complete Locker rooms
*  Co-ed Facilities 7 days a week .
A'- , M-F 6:30 a.m.-ll p.m.
,<^<0 vH S S 8 a.m.8 p.m.
OfiT
Free trials by Appointment 
Just minutes away at 3609 Forbes Ave. Call Today 683-0900
March 6, 1984The TartanPage 15
Swim team second in PAC; Francis going to nationals
Photo by Dan Simon
Bill Hall placed seventh in the butterfly in the conference championships at John Carroll.
By LESLIE FRANK
Tartan Staffurriter
I Just do it! That was the motto the 
cMU swim team carried with them to the 
presidents Athletic Conference Champion|ship meet at John Carroll University, Febru
ary 23-25, and they did indeed do it, 
stealing second place from its three-year 
holder JCU, who dropped to third. Allegh
eny College took first, as they have for the 
| past seven years.
The Tartans performed at peak level in 
the championships to end an impressive sea
son. All team members dropped their times 
for each of their events as their high spirited 
hopes to defeat vengeful John Carroll 
became reality, the final scores being 313 for 
CMU and 270 for John Carroll. CMU over
took Carroll at a dual meet for the first time 
lin seven years during the season, so at the 
[championships the burden of proof was on 
CMU, who came through with the talent 
Lnd team support of a winning
[competition.
Freshman Steve Francis swam his way to 
first place in both the 100 yard and 200 yard 
freestyle events, setung pool records with the 
Outstanding times of 47.21 for the 100 and 
1:45.10 for the 200. As if these achievements 
[werent enough, he broke the conference 
record with his time in the 100 yard freestyle, 
Lnd broke CMU school records in the 100 
lyard, 200 yard, and 50 yard freestyle swims.
Greg Palm broke the CMU school record 
in the mile swim (1650 yards) with a ume of 
18:25.30, only to have his record-breaking 
time bettered by Rob Summers, who swam 
17:23.00 in the mile, putdng him in fourth 
pace for that event. The 1650 was a good 
levent for CMU, for Patty Illig placed 
Itwelfth, making her the only girl to place in 
Ithe top twelve any time during the chamipion.ship. Pattys performance is even more
overwhelming when one realizes that she 
was competing against and swimming past 
male swimmers, since there werent any 
heats strictly for the girls.
Freshman Mike Fitzgerald swam compet
itively to take second place in both the 100 
and 200 breaststroke events. He also took 
fourth place in the 400 yard individual med
ley, barely having time to recover from one 
event before he had to swim another, as only 
one event separated each of Fitzgeralds three 
swims. The same situation held true for Rob 
Summers three swims, the 1650 yard frees
tyle, 100 yard backstroke, and 200 yard back
stroke, but he pulled into the top six in all 
three events, despite the disadvantage.
The CMU relay teams, self-entitled la 
machine, proved their precision by nailing 
down the second place position in the 400 
free, 800 free, and 400 medley relays.
Divers Mark Flanagan and Bill Hall con
tributed greatly to CMUs score for the 
championship and placed the highest 
CMUs divers have placed, Flanagan took a 
third in the one meter and a fourth in the 3 
meter competition. Bill took a fourth in the 
one meter and a fifth in the 3 meter, while 
also using his diverse talents to capture sev
enth place in the 100 yard butterfly swim.
Everyone did well, said team co-captain 
Gina Illig. We were the most spirited team 
there. There were always CMU swimmers at 
the end of each lane cheering. Other schools 
werent as supportive, Gina boasts of 
CMUs team spirit. Team members agree 
that their coach Donna Pecman was an 
integral part of their successes throughout 
the season, continuously a source of spirit 
and support.
For most of the Tartans swim team 
members, the season is over, but not for 
Steve Francis, who has qualified for the 
National Championships in Atlanta, Geor
gia with his times in the 100 yard and 200 
yard freestyle swims. At the PAC champion
ships, he beat his original qualifying time in 
the 100 yard free by .5 seconds and brought 
his time in the 200 yard free down by 3 
seconds to qualify for nationals in that event 
as well.
Right now, Francis says hes .. expecting 
a lot of competition when the nationals 
start on March 15. Further elaborating, Franas 
states, Its going to be different from PAC...
there are going to be a lot of high quality 
swimmers. As a representative of the CMU 
swim team, Steve has a lot of teammates 
behind him, including Gina Illig and Mike 
Fitzgerald, who each missed qualifying for 
nationals by a narrow' margin.
Being that there are only two seniors on 
the team this year, CMU can look forward to 
another great season next year, though the 
triumphs of this season will not be easily 
forgotten.
Spring Into Shape
Limited Offer
1 Year $220.00 |
I
(Students can freeze over summer)
2 Months $50.00 !-  C .  - 'with this coupon *
Offer expires 3-20; * . , . |

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanMarch 6, 1984
Rugby looks for successful season
Photo by Dan Simon 
John Long lets go on a powerful kick.
By SCOTT BOZIC
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The Allegheny Union may not be quite as 
well-known to the average sports fan as the 
Big East Conference, or the ACC, but for 
some students here at CMU, it means a lot. A 
union in rugby is the equivalent of confer
ence in other sports and the CamegieMellon rugby team is a member of the 
Allegheny Union.
Rugby here at CMU has come a long way 
in a relatively short time. It first began in the 
spring of 1982. When we first started, 
maybe one person knew the rules of rugby, 
everyone else was new to the game, noted 
team president Eric Hoffman, a junior who 
has been at CMU one semester longer than
rugby has. Were becoming competitive 
now, were fairly strong on the basics of the 
game, and were good defensively, con
tinued Hoffman.
Right now Carnegie-Mellon is ranked 
fifth in the Allegheny Union, which has 
approximately fifteen schools. CMU is 
behind teams like WVU, California State, 
Slippery Rock and Indiana University of 
Pennsylvania, teams with rugby programs 
up to twelve years old. As an indication of 
the teams progress, Hoffman points out 
that in the early going we used to get 
annihilated by teams like WVU, but last 
semester we only lost to them 4-0. The team 
also competes against Penn State, and will 
travel to American University in Washing
ton, D.C. for a non-union match.
The team practices on the intramural 
field Tuesdays and Fridays at 4:30, regard
less of what the weather may be. Practices 
usually invove endurance training,  basic 
drills and scrimmaging. Games are on 
Saturdays at 12:30, also on the intramural 
field. The season began this past Saturday 
against Indiana University of Pennsylvania.
The team went 5-5 in the fall, but team 
captain Scott Patterson point out that We 
have experienced players returning this 
semester, and good new players also. Build
ing experience has not been easy for this 
club. We have a big problem with turnover 
says Hoffman. Sometimes we lose half the 
team from one semester to the next.Spring is in the air; CMU baseball starts Thursday
By JEFFREY BERGMAN
Tartan Contributing Editor
A couple of weeks ago, you could smell it 
in the air. The scent of rawhide smacking 
leather. It was a message, baseball is back, 
and that only leads to one conclusion: the 
CMU baseball club is about to begin prac
tice for its spring season.
CMU is led by senior captains catcher 
Tim Nagy and pitcher Bob Flaherty. Fla
herty leads a strong group of pitchers that 
last year was besieged with below average 
fielding and an unopportunistic offense. 
Joining him will be starters Bob Keebler and 
Dan Burgundy and spot men Johnny Spanos, Dom Colangelo, and Nick Liston.
Leading the hitting assault along with 
Nagy will be outfielders Richie Theg, Bill 
Yankovich, and Larry Ropelewski. These 
four make up the meat of a lineup which, as 
a whole, didnt produce as many runs as 
expected. In order to improve the run pro
duction, the team invested in brand new 
batting practice equipment to be used excluSPRING BREAK *84.THE TRADITION LIVES ON!
1AKE THE GREATER FORT LAUDERDALE BREAK.Hollywood, Pompano Beach, Lauderdale-by-the-Sea, Deerfield Beach.
Want the tradition to live on forever? Then order your full-color 17" x 23" poster of Spring Break 84 by sending 
$3.00 (check or money-order, no cash, please) to: Spring Break 84, 500 Third Avenue West, Seattle, WA 98119. 
Be sure to include your name, address and college. Price includes postage and handling
sively in the gym.
Ahighlight of this spring season could be 
the appearance of freshman Mike Hensel. 
Hensel was an excellent player at Mars 
High School in Mars, PA, and was scouted 
by some major league organizations. A 
shortstop by trade, Hensel can also pitch. 
CMU did not see him in a Tartan baseball 
uniform last semester due to his commit
ment to football.
The squad is coached by former major 
league prospect Bill Allen. Allen was in the 
Dodger organization for a number of years, 
climbing the Class AA farm club of the 
then Brooklyn squad.
Practices begin Thursday, March 8 in the 
gym at 4:30. The team encourages all those 
who wish to try out.
IM Report
The annual Intramural Night is sche
duled for Thursday night, at 6:30 pm at the 
Gym. The evening starts with the interme
diate basketball championship game. Fol
lowing the game is the presentation of all 
awards and trophies to the winners of all 
intramural events to date. Finally, the major 
basketball championship will be played. All 
are invited to attend as guests of IM Director, 
Earl Birdy, and the President erf the 1983-84 
Intramural Board, Brian Taubler.
In other IM goings on, congratulations 
to TX-B for winning the DARTS trophy. 
The other basketball championship, in the 
minor-league, will be held tomorrow at 7 
pm in the Gym. Today, from 4:30-6:30 
FOUL SHOOTING begins. The final is 
tomorrow at the same time. SWIMMING 
will be held Wednesday, March 14 at 4:30 in 
the pool. You can enter individually or as a 
team at the meet. Sports due soon include 
SOFTBALL, TEAM BADMINTON, 
FRISBEE, and FENCING. All are due 
Thursday.
Judy F. Grumet) Ph.D.
Licensed Psychologist
(former director, CMU Counseling Ctr.) announces the opening of her private practice 155 N. Craig St. 521-9619
VD Testing
Affordable & Confidential 
EVENING Hour Services 
(formerly the Pgh. Free Clinic) 
call 661-5424

---------------------------------------------------

March 6, 1984The TartanPage 17
Final Basketball Statistics: Men and Women
megie-Mellon University 1983-84 Basketball Statistics
(21 games)
AME
ete Bennett 
reg Gabriel 
obert Kukowski 
Taormina \_ 
chard Neff 
i ge Debski 
-y Brennan 
wayne Waite 
om Suckling 
tephen Jochnau 
ott Saxton 
Sendek 
rk Trichtinger 
~ve Gestrich 
vid Bart 
Pultz 
oger DeVries 
MU
PPONENT
AME
reg Gabriel 
ohn Taormina 
obert Kukowski 
chard Neff 
rge Debski 
[Dwayne Waite 
Ray Brennan 
h om Suckling 
[Stephen Jochnau 
[Herb Sendek 
[Scott Saxton 
[Dave Gestrich 
David Bart 
[Mark Trichtinger 
[Roger DeVries 
lEd Pultz 
|CMU 
PPONENT
megie-Mellon University 1983-84 Womens Basketball Statistics
AME
ichelle Schlegel 
uiie Arendas 
risti Munn 
ancy Dilulio 
ancy Bums 
lizabeth Howard 
nna Nyzio 
al Sooky 
eryl Hauser 
telly Diffin 
viaria Bober 
Alison Senning 
^nn Caretto
Col
>PPONENT
All-Conference Basketball Teams
Coach of the Year  Bill Hollinger 
Most Valuable Player  Rusty Swartz
First Team 
tusty Swartz(H)
Victor Harp(T)
Todd Johnsson(CWRU)
^od Swartz(H)
^(rb Cunningham(JC)
^ug Black(B)
second Team
-reg Gabriel(CMU)
3ob Williams(A)
Carswell(JC) 
rank Yankovich(B) 
rny Torchia(W & J)
honorable Mention
rm Pollock(H)
Er,c Vanderveen(T)
^an Miller(H)
IIn Liptack(CWRU)
"haU^ds(A) ______________
G-F6-1175JR
F6-2170JR
G-F6-3180JR
G6-0155Fr
G6-2165SO
F6-3 ^165SR
Pos.Ht.Wt.a.
G5-9160JR
G5-8148SR
C6-6180SR
G-F6-3177So
F6-5190SO
Pos.Ht.Wt.a.
G5-10170JR
F6-4200JR
C6-8205SR
F6-4180SR
F6-5210SO
Field Goal Percentage - Overall
GFGMFGAPCT.FTMFT APCT.RPF-DATOSTTPPPG
74579.5691626.6152619-220311410615.1
21125272.4601520.7504350-283622726512.6
2168183.3726184.7269758-43647211979.4
1749102.4803246.6964442-3734141307.6
2160142.4233672.50012559-1833181567.4
2146118.3903346.7178050-3162081255.9
2041105.3901314.929331725337954.8
173370.4711323.5659847-161410794.6
8923.391710.700169644253.1
100.00034.7501010033.0
171740.4251117.6474223273452.6
201842.4291017.5881530282016462.3
327.28623.6674301262.0
7617.35325.400125141- 142.0
512.50000.0003033120.4
200.00000.001020000.0
101.00000.0000000000.0
215201203.432254387.656764412244313145129461.6
215851196.489310441.703794388253277181148070.5
ILY)(14 games)
GFGMFGAPCT.FTMFT APCT.RPF-DATOSTTPPPG
1483180.46159.5562629-157422117112.2
114176.5392232.6883132-362291049.5
1443125.3444057.7027741-32528101269.0
144498.4491934.5597333623101077.6
143377.4292836.7786740-215166946.7
123369.4781323.5659038-161210796.6
133586.4071112.917241121265816.2
6816.50056.833106412213.5
100.00034.7501010033.0
141332.406915.600721231411352.5
10724.29246.6672313050181.8
5312.25013.3339502071.4
513.3300.0003033120.4
102.00001.0001000000.0
101.00000.0000000000.0
100.00000.0001020000.0
14344801.429160238.6725222691691948584860.6
14379806.470192284.67653224914716812595067.9
Final Standings  Overall
W L %
16* 7 .696
15 7 .682
14 8 .636
12 10 .545
9 13 .409
5 16 .238
5 16 .238
4 18 .182
Allegheny 
John Carroll 
Hiram
Case Reserve ' 
Wash. 8c Jeff. 
Bethany
Carnegie-Mellon
Thiel
inc ludes win over RyersonTech of Canada 
PAC ' '
GFGMFGAper.
(21 games) 
FTM FTAPCT.RPFATOSTTPPPG
1988292.3015295.5472115012533422812.0
1988308.2863559.5931747332996421111.1
1956171.3273660.60014652669201487.8
1952203.2562264.344686326118511266.6
122497.247812.667333414711256' 4.7
52467.3581321.61961711666112.2
158.62515.200610311111.0
1925114.2191524.6258627125220653.4
12226.07779.7782513070110.9
829.22200.0004106040.5
715.20000.00010202020.3
300.00000.0001001000.0
201.00000.0002101000.0
193671301.282189349.54299232410349819792348.6
195641438.392162276.5871090373166348223129067.9
Hiram 
John Carroll 
Case Reserve 
Wfc J 
Thiel 
Allegheny 
Bethany
G22
22
22
2222
23
21
Alt Made%
1276 645 .505
1240 577 .465
1343 620 .462
1187 538 .453
1204 540 .449
1353 601 
996 434
.444
.436
Carnegie-Mellon 21 1203 521 .432
PAC
C i
Hiram H
Case Reserve 14
John Carroll 14
W&J 14
Bethany 14
Allegheny 14
Thiel 14
Carnegie-Mellon 14
Att Made%
805 415 .516
816 390 .478
775 354 .457
778 353 .454
624 281 .450
831 373 .449
729 319 .438
801 344 .429
Hiram 
John Carroll 
Allegheny 
Case Reserve 
Wash. & Jeff. 
Bethany
Carnegie-Mellon 
Thiel _
Team Statistics 
Offense - Overall
Hiram 
Case Reserve 
John Carroll 
Allegheny 
Wfc J 
Thiel
Carnegie-Mellon
Bethany
PAC
Hiram 
Allegheny 
Case Reserve 
W& J
John Carroll 
Uriel
Carnegie-Mellon
Bethany
Defense - Overall
John Canal! 
Allegheny 
Bethany 
Case Reserve 
W & J 
Hiram
Carnegie-Mellon
Thiel
PAC
Bethany
John Carroll
Hiram
Case Reserve
W&J
Allegheny
Carnegie-Mellon
Thiel
W
1211
10
8
6
3
3
L2
3
4 
6 
8 
11 
1! 
11
%
.857
.786
.714
.571
.428
.214
^214
.214
G222222
2322
22
21
"21
G
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
14
G22
23
21
22
22
22
21
22
Pts Avg
1596 725 
1515 68.9 
1402 673 
1544 67.1 
1392 63.3 
1396 62.2 
1294 61.6 
1130 53.8
Pts Avg
1041 74.4 
978 69.9 
949 67.8 
907 ' 64.8 
881 62.9 
850 60.7 
848 60.6 
721 51.5
Pts Avg
1344' 61.1 
1414 61.5 
1293 61.6 
1405 63.9 
1443 65.6 
1508 68.5 
1480 70.5 
1575 71.6
G
14
14
14
14
14
Pis Avg
796 56.8 
853 60.9 
867 61.9 
880 62.9 
920 65.7 
14- 929 66.4
14 950 67.9
14 974 69.6
Individual Statistics 
Rebounding - Overall
G Reb Avg
Victor- Harp <T) 22 204 9.3
Tom ^ptack (CWRU)22 179 8.1
Mike Carswell (JC) 22 174 7.9
Chris Levels (A) 23 190 7.8
Tony Torchia (WfcJ) 22 135 6.1
Jeff Conn (W&J) 22 138 6.0
PAC
G Reb Avg
Tom Liptack (CWRU)14 126 9.0
Victor Harp (T) 14 124 8.9
Mike Carswell (JC) 14 115 8.2
Dwayne Waite (CMU) 12 90 7.5
Chris Levels (A) 14 104 7.4
Tony Tonchia (W&J) 14 95 6.8
Alan Bradstock (WfcJ) 14 85 6.1
Jeff Conn (WfcJ) 14 84 6.0
r

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.___________________
Faculty recommendation segregationist
In the past couple of semesters, all segments 
of campus have begun to pull together. In 
administration, President Cyert has made an 
effort to communicate with students through a 
monthly column in The Tartan, and Brad 
Walter is interested in swimming with stu
dents. The new Interfratemity Council Presi
dent, Bob Fishel, seems sincerely interested in 
bringing Greeks and independents closer 
together. Student Senate, Academic Affairs, 
and the University Teaching Center have 
come together in encouraging a faculty that 
has made great strides in improving teaching 
at CMU.
However, in recommending to administra
tion that the Kresge Faculty Dining Room be 
off limits to students except by invitation, 
Faculty Senate and the Faculty Organization 
threaten to throw this university back to a 
segregated society.
Already sharp divisions are taking place, 
and sides are being taken. Recalling that 
faculty was offered the old Theta Xi house for a 
Faculty Club, students have begun demanding 
that faculty take their segregated club out of 
the building that supposedly serves as student
union. Before the faculty referendum, no com
plaints were ever heard from students about 
Kresge being located in Skibo. Now that 
faculty has recommended exclusion, students 
have demanded that faculty get off their turf. 
No doubt, such a chain reaction will not stop 
there if separatism is not halted before it 
begins.
Protests have already been heard from all 
segments the referendum excludes. Graduate 
Student Organization has been working
against the plan ever since it was first menti
oned. Non-faculty university staff members 
have also complained, while a motion protest
ing the referendum will be put to Student 
Senate next week. Even a large segment of the 
faculty is opposed to the exclusion. The refer
endum was passed by the 750-member Faculty 
Organization by a mere 16 votes.
Despite such outcry, supporters of the refer
endum claimed that an exclusive Kresge will 
actually bring the campus closer together in 
eliminating compartmentalization. They 
say that while students who currently eat at the
Kresge dine with other students, students who 
will be there by invitation only will be forced to 
eat with faculty members. Currently, students 
who eat at Kresge are scowled at upon entering 
the facility. Even if there wasnt a formal order 
before, segregation has existed in Kresge for a
long time  a segregation that was partially 
the fault of students and partially of faculty. 
But, whoever was to blame for it, teachers and 
students were finally starting to commmunicate. Now that communication has met 
opposition.
But its not too late. The Faculty Organiza
tion referendum is only a recommendation to 
administration. President Cyert has the ulti
mate decision in his hands. If you care about 
this decision, let your voice be heard either 
directly to Cyert, through Student Affairs, or 
through Student Senate.
Finally, before you make your decision, 
President Cyert, imagine what your reaction 
would be if students decided by referendum to 
exclude every non-student from Kiltie Cafe. 
And Kiltie isnt even located in a supposed 
faculty union.President discusses future of university
By Richard M. Cyerl
In this article I want to share with you 
some of our plans for and the progress we 
have made at Camegie-Mellon University. 
As students here, you have a vital stake in 
what we do now and in the 
future to assure the quality of 
| education you receive.
Education. I am pleased with 
the way department heads and their faculty 
have been utilizing the services of Professor 
Edwin Fenton and the Educational Man
agement Development Center for the 
improvement of teaching on all levels. I am 
seeking additional resources so that this cen
ter can continue to function effectively. I 
believe that its success can be attributed to 
the choice of a dedicated teacher to head it 
and to the great desire on the part of faculty 
members and the administration to make 
Camegie-Mellon University an outstanding 
educational institution. We must continue 
to strive for excellence in both teaching and 
research.
One educational challenge at the moment 
is the large number of students who want 
electrical and computer engineering or the 
computer science track in mathematics as a 
major. The demand is far greater than our 
current teaching capacity. We have provided 
a solution that will be fair to students who
are already here and that should prevent a 
similar situation from happening in the 
future. Provost Angel Jordan is working 
with the deans and the department heads in 
CIT and MCS to implement this plan, 
which includes the use of part-time faculty 
and the use of laboratories on Saturdays and 
in the evenings. William Elliott, vice presi
dent for enrollment, who also is involved, is 
developing a plan to prevent a recurrence in 
future classes.
We recognize that our tuition is reaching 
significant proportions, and we must be cer
tain that we are giving an education that is 
consistent with the cost of that tuition. 
Because we are a top-quality institution, we 
must give a top-quality education.
Space. As has been true the last four or five 
years, our major problem is space. We are 
continuing to look for new ways to get the 
required space for faculty offices, laborato
ries, and classrooms. Negotiations with the 
Department of Interior for the occupany of 
the Bureau of Mines (BOM) continue. That 
agency has a problem because the federal 
budget keeps modifying the allocation 
necessary for the agency to construct a new 
building for the BOM. We also are attempt
ing to complete a lease with the Mine Safety 
Health Administration (MSHA). We are 
obligated by the act that enabled us to buy
the Bureau of Mines to lease space to MSHA 
as long as they need it. We are trying to reach 
an agreement on the amount and quality of 
the space that they would require. In the 
meantime, we are able to lease some space 
from the BOM. Leasing of one of the build
ings has allowed us to make a series of 
moves for allotting more space in Wean 
Hall to the Department of Computer 
Science. I remain concerned about the 
number and quality of our classrooms and 
other facilities that directly benefit students.
I have had a committee looking into the 
possible construction of a recreation center. 
We have hired an architectural firm to 
recommend a site and to give us a cost esti
mate. Our most recent thinking is to build a 
recreational facility between Warner Hall 
and Doherty Hall, using the hill that is part 
of the Bureau of Mines property. The con
cept is more that of a facility for students, 
faculty, administration, and staff, modified 
to accommodate the needs of inter-collegiate 
athletics, rather than the reverse.
Recognition. I am pleased about the 
recognition that Camegie-Mellon received 
from the presidents who participated in the 
recent survey conducted by U.S. News and 
World Report. I responded to the survey, but 
no president was allowed to vote for his or 
her own school. All surveys attempting toNate cooks up a real Food Service column
By Nate Solano 
Good afternoon and welcome to How to 
cook like a Gourmet for Free. I have been 
contemplating and researching this column 
extensively, and it has finally taken form.
With the high cost of living at 
CMU (outrageous housing 
costs, ridiculously uncompeti
tive food on a quality/price 
io, etc.), it becomes necessary to take 
vantage of every available cost cutting 
 chan ism. Perhaps you havent noticed 
te great deal of free foods made available by 
r x>d Service, the following is a categorized 
list:
Fruit lemon, tomato.
Vegetable: onion, pickle.
Milk: Half/Half, butter.
Bread: crackers.
Other sugar, Sweet & Low, catsup, salt, tar
tar sauce, barbeque sauce, mayonnaise, 
pepper, mustard, horseradish, relish.
From these ingredients a four course meal 
may be derived which is both nutritious and 
appetizing. Follow these simple directions. 
Appetizer flavored crackers
1) Dab approximately one ounce of bar
beque, tartar, or horseradish sauce on a 
saltine.
2) Garnish with pickle.
3) Serve  tempt the palate.
Salad: tomato salad
1) Place tomatoes in a bowl.
2) Serve  luscious.
Main Course: tomato, pickle, and onion 
casserole
1) Pour approximately 30 Half/Half serv
ings into a casserole dish.
2) Fill dish with equal amounts of onions, 
pickles, and tomatoes.
3) Sprinkle with 10 packages of crushed 
saltines.
4) Bake at 350 F for one hour.
5) Serve piping hot  filling.
You will notice the dinner is kosher, per
fect for vegetarians, and best of all free. 
Perfect for feeding the team or that romantic 
dinner for two. All ingredients are available 
at either the Grill or Salads Plus. So go 
ahead, dare to be a gourmet.
Nate Solano is President of Student 
Senate.
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the beginning of the op/ed 
section, and are the official opinion of The Iartan Editorial Board.Letters to the Editor are opinions of individual 
authors who are usually members of the Univer
sity community. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writers address 
and phone number for verification. Names will 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
Columns are the opinions of individual authors 
who are usually on The Tartan staff, but the 
opinions are not necessarily those of The Tartan 
Editorial Board.
rank departments or schools have their diffi
culties, but I must admit that I got a great 
deal of satisfaction from this one. I was par
ticularly pleased to see that we were ranked 
ahead of a number of the Ivy League schools 
and that we are now, based on our strengths 
in all areas,,widely perceived to be a major 
university. However, I believe that our rank
ing should have been significantly higher 
than thirteenth.
I also was pleased to see the high regard in 
which the rhetoric and composition pro
gram of our Department of English is held. 
A recent article in College English praised 
our program and mentioned many of our 
faculty members by name. The author had 
made an extensive survey of these programs 
throughout the country and had concluded 
that, based on research and instruction, the 
two best were at Camegie-Mellon and the 
University of Chicago.
Richard Cyert is President of Camegie-Mellon 
University and writes a monthly column for 
The Tartan.TheTartn.
Editor in Chief................................Ric Medrow
Managing Editor............................Susan Petrie
Business Manager........... ...............Karen Tylak
News Editor..........................Neil J. Greenblum
Features Editor.........................Neal W. Johnston
Entertainment Editor......................Mark Levine
Sports Editor.................... Christopher D. Lewis
Photography Editor........................Mike Pilewski
Production Manager......................Maria Rivas
Typesetting Manager................. Patti Carlisle
Contributing Editors .... ........... Pauline Wen
' Pauline Kramer
Asst. Ent. Editor............................Adam Hanin
Asst Sports Editor............................. Scott Bozic
Assc. Business Manager....................Bonnie Topi
Production Staff: Stephen Bailey, David Fields, 
Elena Gialamas, Andrew Ghali, Heather 
Newton, Tracey Pejouhy, Pam Sweeney.
Copyright  1984 by The Tartan. The Editorial Board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial Off*5 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo 52. 
(412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone, (412) 578-2113. Mail1 
address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh PA 15215* 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

March 6, 1984The TartanPage 19
gtters:
etter considered libelous
o the readers of The Tartan:
On February 21, 1984, The Tartan pubIshed a letter which I consider to be libelbus. I have spoken with a number of 
I tudents and faculty here and they seem to be 
L ggreement with me. I do not intend to 
rgue here about the content of the letter, 
ut there have obviously been some changes 
I iade in The Tartans editorial policy, and 
Ej] potential letter writers should be aware of
hese changes.
The current editor in chief has admitted 
I iat he solicited this letter, two days after the 
lormal deadline, as a direct response to a 
I tter I had written for the same issue. This 
I line about, it seems, because a member of 
 rhe Tartan staff saw my letter and asked for I chance to reply. This means that those 
l^ople who work iorThe Tartan, and there|)re see the copy in advance, can take advan
ce of their positions to insure that any 
I pinion with which they disagree can be 
j plied to in the same issue of the paper. 
Intil Medrows administration, The Tar
im had a policy which specifically forbade
|us.
The solicited letter contained some claims 
l/hich were passed off as facts. Any journal - 
I ,t who has worked his way up from reporter 
I) editor knows that one of the basic tenets of 
I )umalism is to check the facts. In checking
the facts, Medrow did not consider it 
worthwhile to consult the parties named in 
the letter, even though he saw one at least 
once after this letter was submitted. I feel 
that if the publication of a letter is likely to 
cause harm to someone, the editor should 
put a bit more effort into checking the facts 
first. Medrow also seems to be unaware of 
the definition of libel; his defense of the 
solicited letter was, Well, lots of letters 
upset people.
All potential letter writers should now be 
aware that replies to their letters may be 
solicited and run in the same issue as their 
letters. Writers can also write whatever they 
want and have a good chance of getting it 
published, regardless of what it says or what 
the results of its publication are likely to be.
I am surprised that The Tartan has 
adopted such a careless editorial policy. I 
consider Medrows actions to be highly irres
ponsible, to say the least. I hope that the 
editor will soon come to his senses and do 
his job properly.
Monica J. Cellio 
Former Editor in Chief
While The Tartan did not check with 
Miss Cellio and apologizes for any harm it 
may have caused her, the editor published 
the letter in an effort to demonstrate both 
viewpoints and will continue to do so.
ipologies to Monica
iitor:
Regarding my letter to the editor of Februy 21, I would like to make clear the fact 
"t what I wrote was not intended to be a 
rsonal attack on Monica Cellios characr. In fact, I respect Monicas editorial opin|bns and writing skills very much. What I 
d intended to do was to present a response
to some of her past editorials.
It is possible that the story I wrote about 
Monica could have been exaggerated since 
November of 1982. Im sorry for any harm 
the printing of the story may have caused 
Monica.
Cheryl Potter 
Biology/EnglishTC ad missed main issue
liton
H A full page ad in the February 21 Tartan 
ught my eye yesterday. As one of the 
eaching Staff, to whom the ad was 
dressed, I think I share the concerns of the 
nous groups that sponsored the ad. I also 
applaud the University Teaching Centers 
forts to help improve the quality of teachig at CMU.
Yet, something about the ad kept botherg me. At last, it struck me that the virtues 
tolled in the ad (Encouraging Participa
te Communicating Effectively, Beginng and Ending Prompdy, Showing Your 
nihusiasm, etc.) are exactly the ones a
savvy producer would impress upon an 
aspiring TV game show host.
I suppose these are useful guidelines even 
for members of the Teaching Staff. But it 
sure would be exciting to see a full page ad 
(Funded by Activities Fee, no less) in 
which students asked us: Keep on Chal
lenging Our Imaginations; Demand that 
We Reach Our Potential; Dont Settle for 
Less than Our Best.
Yours with enthusiasm,
Thomas Romer 
Professor of Economics 
and Political Economyovernment jobs discussed
Jitor:
I was appalled that the Tartan would 
ny a letter to the editor by an apparently 
tired person without indicating some relanship to CMU. With the title Stay away 
m the Evils of Government EmployJlent the author, Frederick C. Stark, Jr., 
 fleets either an anarchist who wishes to 
| estroy the capability of democratic respon
se government or a hedonist whose only 
ssion in life is to make money and accumlate wealth.
If the federal government is as bad an 
iployer as he suggests, then all of us, 
I eluding those in business corporations 
|^d to work fast to improve the situation, 
tthout confidence and competence in 
veniment there would be no social, eco0mic- and legal system in which private 
teiprise could flourish.
If CMU students and those at other uni
fies to whom Mr. Stark addresses his 
F^al all followed his advice, in relatively
DINING 
TgQOM
This ought to bring faculty and students closer together.
Real joke is on CMU students
Editor
Oh, Jeez. I just heard it again. A group of 
CMU students on the bus. One asks the 
others, How many Pitt students does it take 
to change a light bulb? The reply comes, 
One, but he gets three credits for it. If 
theres a CMU student in the audience 
youre bound to get a laugh with that one.
I am so tired of CMU students making 
fun of Pitt. CMU is very good in the jokes 
department. Look at the front page of the 
Feb. 14 issue of The Pittsburgh Press. Sto
ries about both universities made the head
lines. At the top of the page it was reported 
that the University of Pittsburgh Health 
Center had make history by performing the 
first heart/liver transplant, saving a litde 
girls life and advancing mankind. Right 
under this article, CMU had also make the 
papers with the story of CMU student 
Orpheus Allison.
This student Senate member was 
impeached by his fellow students when he
turned in student leaders for selling beer at 
Skibo Hall without a license. At his 
impeachment they drank champagne. And 
they laugh at Pitt students?! No joke I could 
ever think up about CMU could be more 
humiliating or debasing than this episode of 
truth.
The Press is no winner either for putung 
this stuff on the front page, with a photo no 
less. This story is pure CMU; its selfrighteous, pompous and immature. Pitt has 
given the world everything from world 
teknowned biologists to professional ath
letes; from Jonas Salk to Thomas Stazl. 
CMU has gotten lots of publicity and corpo
rate grants and given us, . . . well CMU has 
given us Lenny and Squiggy.
Maybe the real joke is, who would pay 
$8,400 a year to go to CMU? CMU students.
Name withheld by request
The above letter was originally printed in 
the Wednesday, February 22 issue of The 
Pitt News.
Kamis letter misleading
short ume the U.S. would become an 
authoritarian oligarchy (witness ArgentinaBrazil-Chile) or subject to such revolution 
and subversion that the Soviet Union would 
have obtained its objecdves without firing a 
shot.
The problem with the federal govern
ment is not that its salaries and fringe benef
its are unfavorable (parually true) but that 
recent presidendal administrations have 
increasingly filled top posiuons with political birds of passage (and loo often on a 
personal friendship basis) who lack expe
rience and competence in adminstration, 
and in the substantive and policy fields to 
which assigned.
Presidential candidates charge career civil 
servants with being the eneftiy and when 
elected, they and their political appointees 
denigrate them, which in turn impairs the 
ability of agencies to implement the admin
istrations objecuves. Despite this lack of 
continued on page 20
Editor
We find it necessary to comment on certain 
parts of the Feb. 14 letter by Arnold Kamis 
which we feel to be misleading.
Mr. Kamis presents a few of the slogans 
and phrases commonly misused by prochoice advocates. He insists that he is not 
pro-abortion but pro-choice. Pro-choicers 
constandy speak of the freedom to 
choose., yet they avoid clarifying what the 
choice is  a mothers choice to end her 
babys life by abortion. People who say, I 
would never have an abortion myself, but I 
respect other peoples right to choose, 
obviously dont realize what the choice is. 
Would they just as easily say, I would never 
take a human life, but I respect oth< r peo
ples right to do this.?
Mr. Kamis speaks of his belief in nearly 
limitless personal freedoms and rights and 
insists that no one has the right to tell some
one else what to do. Pro-lifers fully agree 
with this (esp. with the U.S. Consutudons 
. .inalienable rights, that among these are 
life..If one believes that no one has the 
right to tell someone else what to do, it 
seems only logical that one would also 
believe that no one has the right to tell some
one else they can not live.
In Mr. Kamis hypothedcal scene of a cou
ple in bed, he again evades the facts. He 
speaks of the moment the sperm has fertilized the ovum. He does not mendon that at 
this moment, a unique human being comes 
into existence. It is a medical fact. He des
cribes a scene in which the pro-lifers come to 
protect the ferulized ovum from death by 
aborrion. It seems Mr. Kamis would have us 
believe that what is to be aborted is simply a 
fertilized egg  just a few insignificant cells. 
This is not true. By the time a woman real
izes she is pregnant, it is no longer a few 
cells. There are a total of 45 generations of 
doubling of the number of cells during the 
life of a human body.
Mr. Kamis states that you simply have 
no right to tell a woman (and her partner) 
what she is or is not to do with her body. 
Yet, there are laws against suicide, selfmutilation, ai^i even indecent exposure 
which do restrict a womans right to do 
whatever she pleases with her body. But the 
fetus, a unique individual, is so different 
from the mother that it would be rejected as 
foreign tissue were it not for the placenta. It 
is also ironic that he mentions the father in 
this argument. As the law now stands, a 
woman may have an abortion against the 
continued on page 20

---------------------------------------------------

Pag
Page 20The TartanMarch 6, 1984
John i
S[
By JE1
Tartan (
A co! 
in the ! 
leatherJ 
and th;* 
CMU I 
tice for
(
?
mi
r,
t
I1 I
/[<:
Garrison argues both sides of school prayer
By Bill Garrison
The proposed amendment to return 
school prayer back to the classroom seems to 
be a political attempt by President Reagan 
to initiate just a little too much of his own 
beliefs on the nation for his own 
good. I will take the conservative 
point of view in that I am a 
strong believer in God and in 
prayer, and I feel that this country is built on 
freedom of expression of all kinds; but I 
cannot help but be critical of the way Mr. 
Reagan proposes this expression.
I will be critical because President Rea
gan, all of a sudden, is bringing this reli
gious issue to light at a most convenient 
time  Election 84. The issue is certainly 
relevant and in need of action, but it is by no 
means political.
Granted, I believe in God, Reagan 
believes in God, in fact, including all of the 
various denominations, millions of people 
in the U.S. believe in God  but there are 
also millions in this nation who dont. Sup
pose we had an atheist president, and he 
wanted all of the public schools to start their 
day with a repudiation of God, how many 
Catholics and Jews would be up in arms 
then!
Its the wording of Reagans push for 
school prayer that bothers me. In Time
magazine, Reagan stated in an address to 
Congress, If you can begin your day with a 
member of the clergy standing right here 
leading you in prayer, then why cant free
dom to acknowledge God be enjoyed by 
children in every schoolroom across this 
land?
In a radio address to the nation on Janu
ary 27, 1983, Reagan equated school child
ren with Congress again  among others  
when he said, I believe that schoolchildren 
deserve the same right to pray thats enjoyed 
by the Congress and chaplains and troops in
our armed services. In his State of the 
Union Address, Reagan, although not 
equating children with the legislature, 
made no less than 14 references to God or 
faith.
Im not stone-walling President Reagan 
anymore than I have to, its just that his 
unequal equations and uses of the word 
God are too forceful for a general public 
to accept.
If only he placed more emphasis on an 
individuals right to voluntary public reli
gious expression, and not so much on giv
ing praise to God each day, Reagan$ 
proposed amendment might find easier pas. 
sage through Congress. Even an atheist 
couldnt support much of a claim against 
the fundamental right of a child to express 
his religion in school. An atheists relj. 
gious belief, after all, is not believing in 
God. Reagans ideas are just too overpower. 
ing and too dictative for even a conservative 
to handle.
One aspect of the amendment, though 
that is completely acceptable, is that it 
continued on page 22Aborting fetuses not justified
continued from page 19
wil of the childs father. Fathers have been 
arrested in hospitals for trying to prevent the 
destruction of their unborn children. (Please 
note that in this case, the father has no
rights.)
Later in his letter, Mr. Kamis says, If I 
were never bom, I wouldnt know the differ
ence. However, few people have any 
memory of their early childhood. At this 
stage there is no comprehension of life 
ahead, nothing to be looked forward to or 
missed. If a child were killed at this stage, he 
wouldnt know the difference, he 
wouldnt be sad or glad he simply 
wouldnt be, period. Of course, this
would never justify the killing of an infant.
His final statement was this, For you 
anti-choice, religious types: wouldnt an 
innocent, helpless fetus go to heaven and be 
happy if aborted?
Mr. Kamis, anti-choice, religious types 
believe that entrance into heaven is not 
based solely on innocence and helpless
ness. In fact some would believe that if you
were to be killed by salt-poisoning, mutila | 
tion, or any of the other painful methods c 
abortion (which a fetus can feel at l 
weeks), you too would go to heaven. WoulJ 
this also justify your death?
Felicia Thibeault 
Art8] 
Terry Turton 
Physics %Public service a challenge
Did you ever consider serving as a
priest?
...a life style of 
commitment and 
self fulfillment?
Call:
Father Rudolph Silvers
Vocations Office
412/456-3070 
or write:^Catholic Diocese of Pittsburgh
111 Boulevard of the Allies, Pittsburgh, PA 15222
PARSONS 
SCHOOL 
OF DESIGN
to advanced courses this summer 
in New York City.
continued from page 19
executive competence at the top and the 
departure of some of the best career manag
ers, many parts of the government are well 
administered. GAO and NASA are superb. 
Even EPA is being rescued.
Having served as a federal executive and 
consultant over many years I know that 
monetary rewards are limited, but possibili
ties for interesting, challenging, and satisfy
ing careers are large. If we would elect a 
president and members of Congress who 
attach high priority to improving the 
administration and performance of the
Executive Branch, I see no greater challeng 
than public service upon which the futun) 
freedom, security, and well being of theU.S 
depend.
Mr. Starks letter suggests that his on 
track occupation in a limited role must hav| 
led to his being a disinterested perform
and not a good prospect for promodor! 
Now he dispenses his vexation publicll 
The U.S. government urgently needs ilj 
best and brightest.
Donald C. Ston 
Adjunct Professor, Public Managema
Saturdays treats students
continued from page 7
from pork rib roast and baked sole to filet 
mignon and breast of chicken, the entrees 
are quite palatable. While side dishes arent 
included with the main course warm crois
sants and custom-made salads are.
To finish up the night, dessert sounJ 
good. That is if you have room to stuff itiij 
The gooey delights include cheesecake win 
strawberries (real, honest, non-imitaticj 
ones>, a hot fudge brownie delight, aw 
Saturdays Sundae.
An important point to note: no alcoholi 
served nor is any allowed to be brought ir 
So come Saturday, when youve got son 
extra bucks to spend, splurge and treat you 
self to some fine food. Saturdays  of* 
from 6-9 Saturday night  is more thanjii 
a restaurant. Its a great place for strawb 
lovers and croissant devourers.
offers intermediate
Five weeks: June 25-July 26,1984
Drawing/Painting/Environmental 
Design/lllustration/Communication 
Design/Photography/Fashion 
Oesigr>/Fashion Illustration
Each 4-credit course meets Monday 
through Thursday, from 9:00 am to 4:00 
pm, and includes intensive studio work
shops, field trips, visits from guest lec
turers, portfolio and career advisement.
For additional information on the courses, 
housing and registration, please return 
the coupon or call 212-741 -8975.
1984 College Summer Session 
Brochure Request
Parsons School of Design
Office of Special Programs
66 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10011
'rfldre
City/State
Zip
Un8S
aliegheny 
reproductive 
health 
center
abortion 
menstrual extraction
free pregnancy testing 
vd and contraceptive care
all services confidential
121 s. highland ave., 
Pittsburgh 
363-1107

---------------------------------------------------

Unfolding Creative Genius:
Transcendental Meditation
Program
Introductory Lecture (free) 
Wed., March 7 1 p.m./8:15 p.m. 
Skibo, Rm. 13 
For further information, call  
521-6000
r1
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS AND 
COMPUTER SCIENCE GRADUATES 
(Bachelor and Masters)
DRESSER ATLAS, a major division of a Fortune 100 company, provides 
specialized technical services to the oil industry. Our Petroleum Engineering 
Services section is an elite team recognized worldwide as leaders in the 
analysis and interpretation of down hole oil well data.
We need only the exceptional self-star ting individuals who can join this team 
and accept responsibility for designing and developing the software for our 
next generation systems. A strong knowledge of Fortran is required. Geology 
courses helpful.
We will be interviewing on your campus on March 14, 1984. Please contact 
your placement office for further details.
Graduating Electrical and Mechanical Engineers. 
Physics undergraduates.
Quality products are importantyet people make the difference at
\ferbatim
the loading, world supplier of fiexipie media productsWe'll be on campus to tell you how, on March 8.
For further information contact your College Placement office.
An equal opportunity employer
Dont let the little guys fool you!
Youve tried the rest. .. Now try the BEST!
CAPRI
For FRIENDLY 
service and 
DELICIOUS food
We use TRUE 
MOZARELLA cheese
 DO OTHERS?
Mon. - Sat. 5 - 2 a.m. 
Sundays 3-2 a.m.
PIZZA
,yRIC 10 CUT 
PizzA oNly$2.99 + TAX
Plus 2 FREE liters of Pepsi 
FREE delivery 7 days a week
Eat in or order out. 
This price for lunch/dinner
3415 Forbes Ave., Oakland tele: 681 -2202, 2203

---------------------------------------------------


Page 1
John Lor
Sp
By JEFFP
Tartan Com 
A coupll 
in the air.i 
leather. It i 
and that cj 
CMU base j 
tice for its
Page 22The TartanMarch 6, 1984
Tobias should think twice before he writes
Editor
It seems that every week, we are greeted 
with another interesting suggestion for 
social reform by Dan Tobias. I wont argue 
here with his previous suggestions that 
legalizing all drugs will stop drug related 
crimes (presumably by the same mechanism 
whereby legalizing alcohol has prevented 
drunk driving accidents), or that not 
registering for the draft will make America 
freer. But in his last column he suggests that 
we stop funding the government through 
taxes, and I would like to do something Dan 
obviously didnt. . . that is, think about the 
consequences of what he writes.
Dan starts off with a parable concerning 
shopkeepers hiding their money from 
thieves. Of course, this is only a short term 
solution. In the end, the shopkeepers should 
involve the police. Its their job to prevent 
crime, and although they are not perfect, no 
one has suggested a better deterrent. Lets 
note that policemen are paid through taxes. 
If Dan has thought of a better way to protect 
society, one that does not cost any money, 
then he has not presented it.
Dan goes on to say that it is qustionable 
whether the money taken in by the
government goes to the public good. If Dan 
is unsatisfied with the way his money is 
spent, then he can change it on election day, 
when he votes for the people who spend it. 
Apparently, enough people are satisfied 
with the system in general, since (1) they 
continue to elect officials who dont change 
it, and (2) they continue to 
VOLUNTARILY return their tax forms 
every year.
But I forgot  Dan doesnt believe in the 
right to vote  he says we cant delegate 
powers (we) do not possess in the first 
place. Which brings us to the crux of the 
matter  if we cant delegate power, and we 
dont want to pay taxes, what will happen? 
No police  well have to carry guns to 
protect ourselves. No EPA or Better Business 
Bureau  we would be at the mercy of the 
corporations. No Social Security for the
aged, no welfare for the poor  the j 
fortunate will be on their own. And dor/ 
forget  one of those powers we immoral] 
delegate is our power to have the CoJ 
mander in Chief of the Armed Forces be 
civilian  the President. With no watch 
dog, would men with guns hesitate to <* 
them?
Nick Gentile 
Physics '86Garrison: Prayer allows for freedom
continued from page 20
would allow communities to determine for 
themselves whether voluntary prayer should 
be permitted in their public schools.
I support the idea of public school prayer 
for all denominations, not just for those 
who believe in God. Although I realize, 
sadly, that there can never be a universal 
prayer for all children to recite, why cant 
time be set aside before each school day 
when a teacher will call the class to attention 
for a few moments of silence, in which they 
can think of their religion, or softly utter a 
few phrases.
The public school system is not designed 
to teach religion, and it shouldnt incorpo
rate a controversial part of that which it 
cannot do. But it can teach religious aware
ness and universal good to a child. The 
responsibility of religious training is in the 
home. If that is done with care and effort, a 
few moments of silent meditation for a child 
can be very worthwhile.
I believe that school prayer ought to be 
re-initiated into our educational system, but 
on two conditions, one of which is already 
stated in the present amendment. First, if a 
community agrees to hold voluntary verbal 
prayer in their public schools, they should 
be allowed. But secondly, if verbal prayer 
cannot be agreed upon, then moments of 
silent religious thought ought to be offered
Strohbound 84 Presents
THE ULTIMATE 
SPRING BREAK ROAD TRIP
J^Ltoma I $OTHBDNDlf m IIte 1 i iG'JM
* 84
I I
Safe Driving and Clever Thinking Can Earn You Thousands!
Heres a contest where everyone 
who enters wins! STROHS ULTIMATE 
SPRING BREAK ROAD TRIP isopen 
to all registered students 
and its FREE. To enter, 
simply mail us the 
form below.
For starters, we will 
send you complete con
test information, safe driving 
tips from automotive safety experts, 
a free ticket for two to our exclusive 
spring break premiere from Universal 
Pictures of "Hard To Hold starring 
Rick Springfield. And, to get your trip 
off on the right foot, you 
will also receive a 
certificate good for a Free 
Oil Change, Lube and Car 
Safety Inspection from 
Goodyear!* Drive smart, 
have your car in the best 
possible condition before a 
long trip.
The next step is to complete five 
special contest challenges. Succeed 
and you automatically win Strohs 
Spring Break T-Shirt and Strohs 
Spring Break Survival Kit full of 
valuable samples and discount 
coupons. This prize will be awarded 
upon your
ADMIT TWO
nRafenera
A NEW MOVIE STARRING
RICK SPRINGFIELD
From
UNIVERSAL P1CTIRES
ENTRY FOR
Yes, I would like to enter Strohs ULTIMATE SPRING BREAK 
ROAD TRIP. Please mail me my Entry Kit.
Name
arrival at Strohs Spring Break Welcome 
Center in Daytona Beach. 500 lucky 
winners each week will 
also receive a record 
album by artists like 
Dean Ray, The Fixx,
Night Ranger, Real 
Life, Chameleons U.K.,
Tony Carey and Joe 
Ely from MCA Records 
and S.A.R. Records.
Now, just when youre thinking that this 
might be the best deal youve ever heard 
of, heres the clincher. When you receive 
your Survival Kit well also give you a 
copy of our spring break
----------------i Mystery Postcard. Be the
M | first ULTIMATE SPRING 
 BREAK ROADTRIPPER
i of the week to solve the 
 mystery and well hand you 
{ $5,000.00. 
i
Address
School
Ma* this loon to:Stroll's Ultimate Spring Brash Road Trip 
727 Pann Avenue 
SuMa 220Pittsburgh PA 1S221
Enter Strohs ULTIMATE 
i SPRING BREAK ROAD 
1 TRIP Today.
See You on the Beach!
 Mo pore has necessary You aw) first call kx an appointment Oiler includes up to 5 quarts ol regular grade motor oil and labor Does not include the replacement ol oil Illter. 
Otter only available at participating outlets This Goodyear olfer expires March 31. 1984
Attention Student* Traveling by Bus. You are Watconw to Enter!
as an alternative to todays growing, diverse 
communities. There is too much social iso. 
lation in our country as it is. Our children 
shouldnt be subject to that isolation we, 
adults find so easy to procure on one 
another.
One may say that silent meditation in the 
schools is a form of isolation, but it is not. It 
is bringing to attention a mutual under
standing and respect of anothers belief, and 
can in fact be a learning tool. It is the indoc
trination of Gods prayer into the schools 
that promotes isolation.
An awareness of ones faith, especially a 
childs, is something that cannot be taken 
away in a country that calls itself free,
Bill Garrison is a junior in professional 
and technical writing and is one of several 
writers who write the conservative view in a 
point-counterpoint for The Tartan.
abortion 
counseling sennet* 
icith ii'amith and 
dignity from people 
teho care
ABegheny 
Womens 
Center________
Allegheny 
Womens Center
an out patient 
medical clinic ottering
 abortion
 tree pregnancy lests ,
 personal counseling
 birth control services
 gynecological care
 Morning Aller treatment
362-2920
Medical Center East Building 
Penthouse Right (8th floor) 
211 North Whitfield Street 
Pittsburgh, f A 15206______
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
Ft ee Pregnancy Testing
For a confidential friend caHUFEUNE
Downtown Pgh 562-0643
Beaver County 843-0605
Mon Valley 489-9020
Butler County 282-1200
Type It Right
Footnotes 
without tears
L.
Full service word processing specialists Theses, Term-Papers, Dissertations 
Disk Storage Pickup & delivery available Open six days a week Mon.-Fri. 7 AM - 7 PM Sat. 9 AM - 12 NOON
Type It Right
5909 Penn Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15206 661-3386

---------------------------------------------------

fMi b- rol tin" out coon 'Dcnir nmuui w.
CH3
vifTcs TeonUr qour C\e*\ Th ustU- Jut tucuL Thu> form
 and \sand u~ 
uuHn *i -fc>ihlotJ room 4- A

---------------------------------------------------

1.98AND UP
Sale begins Feb. 28 for two weeks at the 
C. M. U. BOOKSTORE
Come Early For Best Selection! 
Limited Time - Limited Quantity
Get that Great X 
Look
Natural, Distinctive and Totally YOU! 
 
H0rCHfCOTTOBS
NO
APPOINTVENTNESSARY
PRECISION HARCUTTERS
PRECISION
JHAIRCUT COLOR
(ANY LENGTH)
$13.00
(WASH-CUT-BLOW STYLE)
NO
APPOINTMENT
Mon.. iln'Pc Wed. 10-7 
Thun., Fri. 10-9
Sal. 9-6 7 3500
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES 
$25.00
2S7 Atwood Sireri 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
Black History: Still Being Maderrr
The Golden Thirteen; The first black Naval officers, commissioned in 1944.
Almost 40 years ago, history was made when thirteen black men became Naval 
officers. These men have carried on a tradition of excellence, achievement, 
and unparalleled opportunity.
That opportunity is still available today, to those who accept the challenge.
Where They Are Today:
After successful careers as Naval officers, Golden Thirteen members can now 
be found in many professions:
Appellate Court Justice
Founder and President of an ar
chitectural engineering firm.
Physician
College Professor
 Real Estate Broker
 Engineering Advisor to a Board 
of Education
 Professional Model
 Director of Human Resources
You Can Join Them . . .As One of Tomorrows Leaders.
Find out more about the opportunities that await you. As a NAVAL OFFICER.
Call 1-800-242-3736
GRADUATE STUDYMechanical Engineering
PENN STATEUNIVERSITY
MAJOR AREAS OF RESEARCH:
 Computer Aided Design
 Internal Combustion Engines
 Noise Control/Acoustics
 System Dynamics and Control
 Turbomachinery and Propulsion
 Combustion
 Fluid Dynamics
 Heat Transfer
 Robotics
 Transportation ,
 Air Pollution Control
Graduate Assistantships available for research or 
teaching starting at $7,860 per year plus paid 
tuition of $2,464 for PA residents; $4,298 outof-state.
Our program is extremely flexible and can be 
tailored to your individual needs.
For further information or application, contact:
Dr. W. H. Park, Graduate Advisor 
Mechanical Engineering Department 
Penn State University
University Park, PA 16802
(814) 865-1345
An Equal Opportunity/ 
Affirmative Action Empi

---------------------------------------------------

Events.
Theatre
Mar. 6-Mar. 11 Agnes of God by John Pielmeier. starring Peggy Cass, Susan Strasberg & 
j vnI1 Chausow. Stanley Theatre, Seventh Ave., 
Downtown. Tue.-Sun. 8 p.m.; Sat. 8c Sun. 2 p.m.
765-2266. '
iy|ar> 7-Mar. 24 Orpheus Descending by Ten
nessee Williams. Univ. of Pgh. Theatre, Stephen 
Foster Memorial, Forbes Ave., Oakland. 624- 
4101.Mar 9-Mar. 25  The Elephant Man by Bernard 
Pomerance. The Ridge Avenue Theater, CCAC 
Allegheny Campus, Ridge Ave., North Side. 237-
2678.
Through Mar. 10 Shakespeares Seven Ages of 
Man. Point Park Theatre Company, Pgh. Play
house, 222 Craft Ave., Oakland. Tue.-Sat. 8 p.m.
621-4445.
Through Mar. 11 Da by Hugh Leonard. Pgh. 
Laboratory Theatre, 420 N. Craig St., Oakland. 
Thu.-Sun. 8:15 p.m.; Sun. 2:30 p.m. 621-2876. 
Through Mar. 11 Maybe Im Doing It Wrong: 
\ Musical Revue of Randy Newmans Music. 
City Theatre Company, Sennott 8c S. Bouquet 
Sts., Oakland. Thu.-Sat. 8 p.m.; Sun. 7 p.m. 624- 
'781.
rough Apr. 1 Nora-Julie by Ingmar Berg
man. Pgh. Public Theater, Allegheny Square, 
North Side. Tue., Wed. 8c Fri. 8 p.m.; Thu. 8c Sat.
& 8 p.m.; Sun. 2 8c 7 p.m. 321-9800.
Films
tfar. 6-Apr. 1 Five Short Works by Dara 
Jirnbaum (US 1978-80). Video Exhibition 
loom, Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute, 
400 Forbes Ave., Oakland. Continuous 
howing: Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 
>.m. 622-3212. -
dar. 6 Amarcord by Frederico Fellini (Italy 
974). Pgh. Playhouse, 222 Craft Ave., Oakand. 7:30 8c 9:40 p.m. 621-4445. 
iar. 6 An Argentine Adventure (Travel 
dventure Series). Carnegie Institute, Carneie Music Hall, 4400 Forbes Ave., Oakland. 1
7 p.m. 622-3314.
ar. 7 The Third Man with Orson Welles, 
oseph Cotton 8c Trevor Howard (UK 1949). 
gh. Playhouse, 222 Craft Ave., Oakland. 7:30 
9:30 p.m. 621-4445.
ar. 8 Shoot the Moon with Diane Keaton, 
Iberi Finney 8c Dana Hill (US 1982). Pgh. 
llayhouse, 222 Craft Ave., Oakland. 7:30 8c 
1:40 p.m. 621-4445.
Mar. 8 "La Strada with Anthony Quinn, by 
Irederico Fellini (1954). Activities Board,
ACTION RESUMES
 LOW COST STUDENT
RESUME PACKAGES 
 PERSONAL INTERVIEW 
 INDIVIDUALLY 
DESIGNED & WRITTEN 
 UNIQUE COVER & 
FOLLOW UP LETTERS 
 PERSONALIZED 
WORD PROCESSING
 JOB SEARCH
cfujfwmdwc
0 FREE - 15 TYPED
ORIGINALS OF YOUR 
ONE PAGE RESUME 
JON DELL ENTERPRISES 
345 FOURTH AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH. PA 15222 
412-391-4278_______
Doherty Hall 2210. 6, 8 8c 10 p.m. 578-2105. 
Mar. 9 Casablanca with Humphrey Bogart 
8c Ingrid Bergman (US 1943). Pgh. Playhouse, 
222 Craft Ave., Oakland. 7:30, 9:30 8c 11:30 
p.m. 621-4445.
Mar. 9 Casablanca with Humphrey Bogart 
8c Ingrid Bergman (US 1943). Activities Board, 
Doherty Hall 2210. 6, 8 8c 10 p.m 8c midnight. 
578-2105.
Mar. 9 Land of Look Behind by Alan 
Grecnburg (US 1982). Museum of Art Thea
tre, Carnegie Institute, 4400 Forbes Ave., Oak
land. 8 p.m. 622-3212.
Mar. 9 8c 10 The Tingler with Vincent Price 
(US 1959) Pgh. Film-Makers, 205 Oakland 
Ave., Oakland. 8 & 10p.m. 681-5449.
Mar. 10 Hair with Treat Williams (US 
1979). Pgh. Playhouse, 222 Craft Ave., Oak
land. 7:30, 9:40 8c 11:50 p.m. 621-4445.
Mar. 10 Spring Break (US 1983). Student 
Dormitory Council, Doherty Hall 2210. 6, 8 8c 
10 p.m. 8c midnight. 578-2114.
Mar. 10 La Terra Trema by Luchino Vis
conti (Italy 1948). English subtitles. Museum 
of Art Theatre, Carnegie Institute, 4400 
Forbes Ave., Oakland. 8 p.m. 622-3212.
Mar. 11 The Three Faces of Eve-with 
Joanne Woodward 8c Lee J. Cobb (US 1957). 
Pgh. Playhouse, 222 Craft Ave., Oakland. 7:30 
8c 9:30 p.m. 621-4445.
Mar. 11 Panama: And You Thought It Was 
Only a Canal (Travel Adventure Series). Car
negie Institute, Carnegie Music Hall, 4400 
Forbes Ave., Oakland. 2:30 p.m. 622-3314. 
Mar. 11 Mad Max with Mel Gibson (Aus
tralia). Doherty Hall 2210. 6, 8 8c 10 p.m. 
Mar. 11 The Bad and the Beautiful with 
Kirk Douglas, Lana Turner 8c Dick Powell 
(US 1952). Pgh. Film-Makers, 205 Oakland 
Ave., Oakland. 2 8c 8 p.m. 681-5449.
Mar. 12 Portrait of the Artist as a Young 
Man with John Gielgud (US 1979) Pgh. 
Playhouse, 222 Craft Ave., Oakland. 7:30 8c 
9:30 p.m. 621-4445.
Current Films
El Norte/The North by Gregory Nava (R). 
English subtitles. Manor, 1729 Murray Ave., 
Squirrel Hill. 421-1633.
Harry 8c Son with Paul Newman 8c Robby 
Benson (PG). Manor, 1729 Murray Ave., Squirrel 
Hill. 421-1633.
The Dresser (AA Nominee) with Albert Finney 
(AA Nominee) 8c Tom Courtenay (PG). Squirrel 
Hill, 5824 Forward Ave., Squirrel Hill. 421-7900. 
Yentl with Barbra Streisand (PG). Regent 
Square, 1035 S. Braddock Ave., Edgewood. 241 - 
2332.
Music
Broadway Danny Rose with Woody Allen 8c 
Mia Farrow (PG). Squirrel Hill, 5824 Forward 
Ave., Squirrel Hill. 421-7900.
Compleat Beatles, narrator Malcolm McDo
well (Not rated). Kings Court, 3807 Forbes Ave., 
Oakland. 682-2334.
Mar. 6 Senior Recital: Sharon Sciore 
(trumpet). Alumni Concert Hall, CFA. 8 p.m. 
578-2372.
Mar. 6 Univ. of Pgh. Mens Glee Club, direc
tor John Yankee. William Pitt Union Audit., 
Fifth Ave., Oakland. 8:30 p.m. 624-4126.
Mar. 6 Merrill Lynch Great Performers: The 
Canadian Brass in Recital. Pgh. Symphony 
Orchestra, Heinz Hall, 600 Penn Ave., Down
town. 8 p.m. 392-4900.
Mar. 7 Graduate Recital: Christopher Phil
lips (violin). Alumni Concert Hall, CFA. 8 
p.m. 578-2372.
Mar. 7 Van Halen Concert. Civic Arena, 
Downtown. 7:30 p.m. 642-2062.
Mar. 8 Student Convocation. Alumni Concert 
Hall, CFA. 12:30 p.m. 578-2372.
Mar. 8 Greg Allman Band. Heaven, 105 Sixth St., 
Downtown. 243-2836.
Mar. 8 Jazz Festival. Skibo Ballroom. 7:30 
p.m. 578-2372.
Mar. 8 An Evening of New Music. Pgh. 
New Music Ensemble, conductor David 
Stock. Engineering Audit., Univ. of Pgh., 
Oakland. 8:30 p.m. 624-4126.
Mar. 8 Senior Recital: Lawrence Goldberg 
(composition). Almuni Concert Hall, CFA. 8 
p.m. 578-2372.
Mar. 9 Greek Sing. The InterFraternity 
Council, Syria Mosque, Bigelow Blvd., Oak
land. 7:30 p.m. 578-2107.
Mar. 9 Senior Recital: Robert Rocco (piano). 
Alumni Concert Hall, CFA. 8 p.m. 578-2372. 
Mar. 9 fc 11 Pgh. Symphony Concert, conduc
tor Herbert Blomstedt with Henryk Szeryng 
(violin). Including Beethovens Violin Con
certo 8c Brahms Symphony No. 4. Pgh. Sym
phony Orchestra, Heinz Hall, 600 Penn Ave.,
Downtown. Fri. 8:30 p.m.; Sun. 2 :30 p.m. 
392-4900.
Mar. 10 Senior Recital: Julie Adema (bas
soon). Alumni Concert Hall, CFA. 3 p.m. 578- 
2372.
Mar. 10 Senior Recital: Tamara Dieter (voice). 
Alumni Concert Hall, CFA. 8 p.m. 578-2372. 
Mar. 10-12 Pops Concert: The 5th Dimen
sion, conductor Paul Schwartz. Pgh. Sym
phony Orchestra, Heinz Hall, 600 Penn Ave., 
Downtown. Sat. & Sun. 8 p.m.; Mon. 7:30 
p.m. 392-4900.
Mar. 11 Senior Recital: Julia Santoso (piano). 
Including works by Bach, Beethoven, Chopin 
8c Debussy. Frick Fine Arts Audit., Univ. of 
Pgh., Schenley Park Dr., Oakland. 3 p.m. 624- 
4126.
Mar. 11 Senior Recital: Judith Tomsko 
(voice). Alumni Concert Hall, CFA. 3 p.m. 
578-2372.
Mar. 11 fc 12 Camegie-Mellon Chamber 
Orchestra, conductor Werner Torkanowsky. 
Including Bachs Brandenburg Concerto No. 
5 8c Brahms Liebeslieder Waltzes. Alumni 
Concert Hall, CFA. 8 p.m. 578-2372.
Exhibits
Through Mar. 9 Fiber 84 Velar. Velar Gallery, 
GSIA. Mon.-Fri. 9-5 p.m. 578-4384.
Through Mar. 11 David Aschkenas, Kenneth 
Batista, Ron Bennett, Lillian Kefalos 8c Philip 
Rostek. Pgh. Plan for Art, 407 S. Craig St., Oak
land. Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m. 
683-7600.
Through Mar. 18 Susan Rothenburg. Con
temporary paintings. Gallery D, Carnegie 
Museum of Art, 4400 Forbes Ave., Oakland. 
Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m. 622-3212. 
Through Mar. 25 Pittsburgh Print Group Exhi
bition 8c Valda Cox: Forms in Porcelain. AAP 
Gallery, Pgh. Center for the Arts, Fifth 8c Shady 
Aves., Shadyside. Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 
2-5 p.m. 361-0873.
Readings
Mar. 7 WTiere Joy and Sadness Are Twins, 
poems of Juan Ramon Kimenez, with music of 
Rodrigo 8c Castelnuovo-Tedesco. International 
Poetry Forum, Carnegie Lecture Hall, Schenley 
Park Dr., Oakland. 8 p.m. 621-9893.
SPRING 
DREAK RATE
Make your break for less. If youre 18 or older. form. We also accept most major credit cards, 
your current student 1.1)., valid drivers license You pay for gas and return the car to the renting 
and cash deposit are all you need to rent front location, 
us. Call or stop by to complete a qualification
Available at:
1()211-orlxs Avenue (Oakland)682-1444
WE GIVE YOU NATIONAL ATTENTION. AND THATS THE TRUTH.
Kate available from li pm Thursday Mari h If, to t> p.m. Monday. March 2t> Certain dailv minimums applv Ask for details
Wt* < *M t ars
lik<- this ( lu-vrok-t (
Non \< imutuNr \ t<> the*  r similar \/J*| w dfhi in \tthf*n i f> t hiiihj* it tthf nit ntttu  tfh < ur\ \iihff\ I h> in tniuhiht\
578-2921CAMPUS CONVENIENCECMU TRAVEL OFFICE

---------------------------------------------------

)
Page 16
U
u
John Lont
Spi
By JEFFRI
Tartan Contri j 
A couple ; I 
in the air. 1 
leather. It vj 
and that or? 
CMU baset] 
tice for its si
GRAND OPENING
FOUR STAR PIZZA
Fast FREE Delivery
683-0400
4740 Baum Blvd, OaklandPgh, PA.
13 TASTY ITEMS TO CHOOSE FROM
PEPPERONI GROUND CHUCK THICK CRUST HOT PEPPERS OLIVES
SAUSAGE HAM ONIONS ANCHOVIES EXTRA CHEESE
BACON GREEN PEPPERS MUSHROOMS
12 16 
Cheese......................$4.29 ............................$6.08
1 Item............ 4.98 ............................ 6.98
2 Items................... 5.75 .......................... 7.95
3 Items................... 6.52 ..............:____ 8.92
4 Items................... 7.29 ........................... 9.89
5 Items................... 8.06 ..........................10.86
FOUR STAR PIZZA 5 ITEMS FOR THE PRICE OF 4
|%P| I I VP PEPPERONI, SAUSAGE, MUSHROOMS, ONIONS, GREEN PEPPERSl/CLUAC SORRY NO SUBSTITUTIONS _____
FREE DELIVERY* 
WITHIN 30 MIN. 
10 MIN. PICK-UP
STORE HOURS:
SUN-IHURS 11 AM-1 AM 
FRI & SAT 11 AM-3 AM
?WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO 
LIMIT OUR DELIVERY AREA 
SORRY, WE DO NOT ACCEPT 
PERSONAL CHECKS.
VALUABLE COUPONS
COUPON
raw 'ltPIZZA
mm mm mm__P I urlt n
 mm coupon  mm mm mmesrua rs
Pf PPtRONI SAUSAGE MUSHROOMS 
ONIONS, AND GREN PtPPtRS
AND FOUR FREE 16 OZ CURS
OF COKE
ONI COUPON PER PIZZA
MEDOEW c*p's 6/1/84
!..
Wfc RISEBvE iym 
b#pyh ig 
gSUANPS,Nw
ON ANY 16" PIZZ^ - ON ANY 16" PIZZA
I
AND FOUR FREE 18 OZ CUPS
OF OOKE
AND FOUR FREE 1 OZ CUPS
OF COKE
ON{ COUPON Hi P'27* 
COUPON fxPiBtS
COUPON
6/1/84
COUPON
.N UNINUPN iyf 
P U#pyi TO I'MiT
OU DU.JL.
rvd rl-rv pf  -#LLH
COUPON EXPiBES 6/1/84
WE BESEBVE Twt 
U#pyi ig f#o#i 
OuROUI
AND TWO FREE 16 OZ CUPS 
OF COKEI
COUPON
ONE COUPON PtB PIZZACOUPON E*PtES 6/1/84
WE BE SE B VI THC 
RIGHT TO LIMIT
OUR 1
COUPON
DtHVIRY AB^K^J
RIC ME
Irtan Editor 
Student 
tween the 
resident laf
wRcrr n
owd of abc 
arted with 
eied two qi 
ts: Studen 
ivoulakis, 
udent Dor 
ajgel and 
?neral Can 
en fielded 
Here is he 
ues:
[Chris Gi
I
ry Ann S 
sidential <
0
AF aCcuMc
'%tan Staffwri 
Iphe first t 
laf 1960s 
students 
including ov 
asked their o 
Pction to enc 
I Hie lobby 
freeze on th 
I lear we< 
I in does i 
P| iod. The
Wth
fws
mecornin 
water at 
latures
I siness con 
WtravaganziJ'^rtainn
H^burgh c 
e Raybeat 
orts
^artans 1 
imate Fri
orial
nt and
t
