The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 83. Number 24, April 26, 1983.
i The PIKA B buggy, Bullet, sped around the shoot in anose-to-nose with the Beta A buggy, Vixen.
Latest model of 
IBM computers 
arrive at CMU
By CARRIE CAUGHLIN
Tartan Staffumter
At least seventy IBM personal com
puters recently arrived at CMU, the first of 
the transition machines which will intro
duce a new era in CMU computing. It is 
expected that these computers, similar to 
some which should be available for student 
use next year, will reduce the load on the 
Tops-20 system, particularly during peak 
hours.
Bill Sholar, personal computing support 
coordinator, explained that the machines 
are the latest model IBM personal compu
ters. All have 116Kavailable memory, which 
is expandable. Some are equipped for text 
processing, while others are equipped for 
work with colors and graphics.
All the computers have a double disk 
drive. Twenty have a hard disk with ten 
mega-bytes (equivalent to 4000 disk pages 
on Tops-20).
continued on page 4
Two year strategy for transition to P.C. 's announced
By BOB AARHUS
I Special for The TartanThe CMU Administration recently 
[announced a two year strategy for the transition from the current TOPS/VAX dependent system to the Integrated Personal Computing Environment, and reaction to some of the programs proposed has been | rather varied.In a memorandum sent to college and 
I department administrators, Vice-Provost for computing and planning Doug Van Houweling outlined a program designed to 
lighten loads on the six DEC-20 machines while simultaneously transferring comput- jing power to newly purchased IBM personal computers. Because computer I demand has grown explosively, increasing 
% per year for the past 3 years, the TOPS
system has become more difficult to access, 
and at the same time more expensive to own 
and operate. A transfer to personal compu
ters would reduce loads on DEC-20s while 
still providing an equitable level of comput
ing power.
In order to encourage use of the PCs, Van 
Houweling has introduced modest con
trols which will improve the quality of time
sharing services and will be moving certain 
program applications from TOPS to PCs. 
These control include the raising of prime
time usage cost 30% (effective July 1), implementing EMACS-and-SCRIBE-like 
programs on the PCs, and establishing 
login restrictions when the system loadaverage on a particular machine reaches a 
predetermined level.
The load login-restrictions established
two weeks ago and the anticipated rise in 
user costs evoked considerable response, 
both for and against, from the computing 
community. One objection raised by several 
users was that Van Houweling had consulted 
neither students nor the Computer Policy 
Advisory Committee (CPAC) before making 
his decision to implement the login restric
tions; students questioned whether it was 
wise that he should take matters in his own 
hands. (CPAC is composed of both faculty 
and administrative members from depart
ments throughout the University, and 
advises the Computer Board, the adminis
trative aim of computing, on computer mat
ters. The committee has one student 
representative.)
CPAC Chairman, Dr. Michael Levine, an 
advocate of controls regulating computer
usage addressed these objections. He stated 
that Van Houweling had submitted various 
control proposals including login restric
tions to CPAC before the policy statement, 
although the committee had not discussed 
the matter in great detail before the login 
restrictions were implemented. Levine cau
tioned that CPAC is only an advisory orga
nization, and was not required to be. 
consulted before policy decisions were 
made.
Dr. Steven Director, EE Department 
Head, and former chairman of CPAC, com
mented on the PC plan. Im in favor of it. I 
think its terrific ... careful planning could 
minimize the trauma [of the transition]. 
He felt that CPAC had been listened to 
during his chairmanship; when asked about 
continued on paae 4UPC drive deemed a hoax
% PAULINE KRAMER
I tartan Features EditorI dont think its gonna stop us from 
[helping; it might make us a little leary of 
Icings like this in the future, says former jAlpha Phi Omega treasurer Richard Ketz of I die honest, now unnecessary, effort to help 
|an unknown girl with an alleged kidney | disease1.
When the service fraternity distributed 
Receptacles for UPC (Universal Price Code) 
lunations, no one could identify the founjdation which would collect the codes to 
|sPonsor supposed needed hours of dialysis 
Fitment, nor could the girls family be conpcted. It never occurred to anyone that 
someone could contort an act of charity into |a hoax.
The I PC collection effort started at a few 
lurches m Ketz hometown, near Reading, 
As Ketz said, Everyone assumed that the 
l0ney got to die girl; unfortunately, this 
as not the cast*. The only person which 
could attach to the cause was Roberta reiner, just an" ordinary person who 
vrks for a dry-cleaning establishment. She
claims that the codes were going to a nurse, 
who is now unreachable somewhere in 
Philadelphia.
A reporter from the Pottsville Republican 
interviewed Ketz and his mother over spring 
break, who also could not make heads nor 
tails of the situation or why someone" would 
want to pull off such a hoax. Previous to the 
contact with the newspaper, Ketz called a 
few possible foundations which may have 
been a sponsor. The National Kidney Foun
dation of Western Pennsylvania reported 
that they experienced a case similar to this 
five years ago.
A Phi O has been receiving UPCs from 
all over the country, from Wisconsin and 
New York Cub Scout Troops to a woman in 
Connecticut mailing a box full of the codes. 
Whether theres just one or several incidents, 
I cant tell, said Ketz, but its spreading all 
over.
No one knows why, or how many peo
ple are involved, but right now I would just 
say for people to stop saving them to stop it 
spreading. There are so many fx>ople all 
over the U.S. trying to help. Its such a shame.Renaissance bassist John Camp played to an enthusiastic crowd Friday nigh

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Buggies may not have ABC Sports calibre, but no matter
With Carnival just finishing a few days ago, 
its remnants still splintered and chunked all 
along Midway (nee Skibo parking lot), we 
thought it appropriate to write about a certain 
aspect of this hallowed CMU tradition and the 
enigmatic compulsion driving people to . . .
Drive buggies.
Does anyone have a viable reason as to why 
very little students compress themselves into 
very little compartments, risking their lives at 
speeds nearing 45 miles per hour?
Sure, theres the fame and glory, but theres 
got to be more. If youre lucky, that is if we 
were lucky enough to convince a photo
grapher to cover free rolls and he turned in 
fairly clear photos, you might get your picture 
in our honored newspaper. But thats only if 
youre lucky; so chances are that if youre driv
ing a buggy for Tartan notoriety, lets just say 
that you should pick a safer business.
Owls would probably get a kick out of get
ting up at four in the morning to cram them
selves into one of those flying sardine cans; we 
dont know many owls at CMU  those who
pay an activities fee, anyway. Unless you like 
staying up until 3 drinking on a Saturday 
night with a two hour interval before you get 
to leave the warmth of your room  two hours 
to decide whether to stay up or sleep  then we 
figure that this strange obsession with these 
buggies is not founded upon freezing dawn 
excursions through Schenley Park.
Losing weight to squeeze into a buggy is not 
exactly something we all live for; then again, 
students are used to starving. Not eating is 
second nature to a student. But is it a pasttime 
in which we would willingly engage, just for 
kicks, just for that inexplainable adrenaline 
rush come Friday morning of Spring 
Carnival? Maybe . . .
That stifled person snuggled so tightly can 
see the spectators flailing their arms like users 
of a sticky roll-on deoderant. The buggy is not 
so airtight that the drivers are deafened to the 
roar of one uproarious, thunderous cheer as 
the two speeding vehicles streak nose to nose 
through the chute,feverishly trying to avoid 
each other and the hay bales.
Could that be it? Is it the force thats with 
buggy' drivers merely established by the thrill 
of victory? Has ABC Sports been right all this 
time  that competition is fueled by the thrill 
of victory and agony of defeat?
Maybe seering across the finish line on Frew 
Street isnt on the same level as a depleted 
marathoner envisioning the finish line of the 
New York Marathon as he plods across the 
Verrazano Bridge, or isnt as exhilarating as a 
downhill skier negotiating tricky moguls high 
up in the Colorodo Rockies. Maybe driving a 
buggy past Phipps Conservatory lacks the 
spark that would motivate a Wide World of 
Sports athlete, but certainly, Howard Cosell 
would think of something intelligent to say 
about our races.
Sweepstakes has remained an integral part 
of CMUs spring for over half a century, and 
hopefully will continue for many more years 
ahead. The sense of true competitive spirit, 
involving the entire school, is found almost 
solely at Carnival, especially with 
Sweepstakes.
Forbes bridge destruction sparks visions of past
By Phil Mason
An era in transportation has come to an 
end in Oakland. The Forbes Avenue bridge, 
as most of us realize, is now becoming a part 
of the past.
For its unexpectedly long life
time vehicles of every shape and 
size have safely traversed over 
Panther Hollow. Horses and 
carriages, trolley cars and PAT buses, as well 
as the everpresent automobile are among the
Conflict in Poland
many modes of transportaion to have 
crossed the void in safety.
Now it is time for the Forbes Avenue 
bridge to yield to a new bridge of modem 
design. It is interesting to reflect on just how 
many bridges in the Pittsburgh area are 
nearing their 100th anniversary. TheSmithfield, Schenley Park, and Panther Hollow 
were all built before the turn of the century.
It is amazing to think that the bridges 
have existed through all of the century even
though the designers and builders may not 
have even considered the needs of modem 
traffic or the possiblity of having their crea
tions exist for so long. Pittsburgh, with its 
many rivers, has seen many bridges. Down 
on the hillsides and across the rivers one may 
see the remains of old bridges  even a 
tunnel that has been abandoned near Sta
tion Square. Some bridges are not even in 
service, only existing because of the expense 
of removing them.
It is sad that the care and work to erect 
these elegant necessities must be thrown 
away only to be replaced by a concrete 
chunk of modem art and engineering. 
Those beautiful lines of the past are on their 
way out. Rust and neglect have taken their 
toll. But let us remember the time and effort 
put into these bridges of the past and try to 
understand the thrill the designers must 
have felt as the last bolt was tightened so 
long ago.
Walesa and Solidarity have government worried
By Stuart Shapiro
The leaders of the Polish regime are run
ning scared.
Of course, thats hardly anything new. 
General Jaruzelski and his buddies have 
been losing sleep for close to 
three years on account of the 
troublesome Lech Walesa and 
his almost equally troublesome 
compatriots. Still, they were probably rest
ing a little easier while Walesa kept the rela
tively low profile he has maintained since 
the Polish authorities were kind enough to 
release him after eleven months as a guest of 
the State.
Combine that with the fragmented and 
seemingly ineffectual remnants of Solidarity 
and the General and his equally loathsome 
henchmen had reason to feel pleased with 
themselves. It looked like they had put con
siderable distance between themselves and 
the proverbial frying pan.
In the last two weeks, however, events 
have suggested that images of hying pans 
(or woks if you want to be fashionable about 
it) still fill the little minds of Polish officials. 
Apparently Lech and the boys are getting
uppity again. As a result, the State is getting 
a bit jittery. So jittery , in fact, that officials 
deemed it necessary to detain and interro
gate Walesa no less than three times within 
the space of a week. And they didnt stop 
there. The authorities also invited Walesas 
wife and his part-time chauffeur to stop by 
for a friendly conversation.
It seems that Walesa has been holding 
clandestine meetings with underground 
Solidarity leaders. Such meetings are sup
posedly, legal as long as they are not used to 
plan illegal activities. In other words, as 
long as Walesa and his friends dont plan 
anything that might promote greater free
dom and democracy in Poland, they can 
hold their little get-togethers. I suppose they 
could play chess.
But I doubt that theyre playing chess. 
The Polish government certainly doubts it. 
If they didnt, they wouldnt be escalating 
their harassment of Walesa. The authorities 
must strongly suspect that Solidarity is gear
ing up for some May Day protests, which it 
probably is. (Solidarity still exists, if only in 
the hearts and minds of the Polish jx-ople. 
But then, thats where it originated.Kiltie lines inefficient
Editor
This is to complain about someaspectsof 
Food Service. This is not another Food 
Service Stinks letter; I think they generally 
do a pretty good job. However, there are still 
some things they do which I find 
disagreeable.
One of them is their lecent decision to 
close one of the lines in Kjhie at so-called 
off-peak times as an economy move. This
seems to be designed to ensure a long line at 
all times, not just peak hours. In fact, some 
of the longest lines Ive seen in Kiltie have 
been at the times they had onlv one line 
open. Also, in the not-infrequent occasions 
when the soda machine in one line goes on 
the blink, or they run out of soup or ketchup 
or something and Like forever to replace it, it 
is good to have another line to go to. A 
Forbersid or gtui c
It would appear that Walesa will not be 
quite as quiet and subservient as the govern
ment might fervently wish. Polish officials 
know from experience how effectively Lech 
Walesa can ignite the smoldering discontent 
in his fellow Poles. Having reestablished 
totalitarian order, the last thing government 
officials want is a new round of protests.
So theyre leaning on the man who can 
spark new confrontations between the Pol
ish people and the Polish government. And 
it would probably never occur to them that 
the reason they have to constantly wony 
about such possibilities is the fundamental 
illegitimacy of that government.
Any government with a modicum of pop
ular support can tolerate internal protest. 
Its when the protesters vastly outnumber 
goverment supporters that such activities 
become intolerable. In that case, the govern
ment must rely upon coercion to maintain 
its facade of legitimacy. Above all, it must 
keep a tight rein on individuals who have 
the capacity to consolidate and orchestrate 
popular discontent. Is is a task with which 
legitimate governments need not concern 
themselves.Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the top of page two. and are the 
official opinion of Hu- Tartan Editorial Board. Columns are the opinions of individual authors who 
are usually on Pic Taltan staff, hut the opinions are 
not necessarily those of II' I arum EAitonal Board. Letters lo the editor are opinions of individual authors 
u ho are usually memlters of the I nnrrsity commun
ity. A letter intended for publication must he signed and 
include the writer's address and plione number for 
irrifuation. \ames will be withheld upon request. Ilw Tartan re.smrs the t ight to condense or reject any 
letter.
Lec h Walesa is such an individual. That 
this one man can so frighten the Polish 
government reveals the hollowness of its 
claims of iegitimacy.
Editor in Chief.............................Monica Cellio
Managing Editor.........................Gregg Bossier
Business Manager.......... ............ Kathy Was*
News Editor...........................Joanne ^Savinell
Features Editor.......................Pauline Kramer
Entertainment Editor...................Susan Petrie
Sports Editor..................................Jeff Bergman
Photography Editor....................Steve Winawer
Production Manager............Carolyn Sperana
Ad Manager.................................Bonnie Topi
Typesetting Manager.....................Patti Carlisle
Art Director...........................Michael Sussman
Contributing Editors.....................Alice Alfonsi
Vince Guinto 
Louise1 Crocoll
Assoc. Ent. Editor.........................John Cantinc
Assistant Business Mgr. . . ..........Tara Dieguff
Assistant News Editors...............Chris Johnston
Pauline Wen
Asst Features Editor ...................Monica Safri11
Asst Sports Editor...................... Ric Medr*j
Asst Production Mgr..........................P<<er a'n
Production Staff: Bob Aarhus, Doug Blair, 
Kissler, Esther Filderman, Andrew Ghali, Scott 
Safier.
Copyright  198.1 by The Tartan. Ilw Editorial rev ives ilk' nght to withhold from publican1 ul ropy ii tktuis unfit for publication. Editorial Skibo V). (112) V78-2I11. Business Offices: Skiin' > (112) '>78-2112. 21 hotii phone. (112) .*>78-211.1. MajJ* iitUliess: Box 17. Sc lienlex Paik, Pittsburgh PA I--' Funded bv the Activities Fee.AH rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

April 26, 1983The TartanPage 3
Letters 
BYU dress reasonable
Editor:
After reading Mr. Spillanes article debas
ing my undergraduate alma mater, I 
I objected to his sophomoric conclusion that 
Brigham Young Universitys high stand
ards regarding perosnal appearance and 
conduct creates an oppressive or stifling 
environment. Outdoor games abound on 
numerous lush fields and are played in 
shorts and shirtless, albeit shoes must be 
worn on campus lawns (how many people 
do you see running barefoot in our chemi
cally fertilized mud hole that passes for a 
quad anyway?). Students do bag rays in 
shorts or swimsuits at the multitude of local 
pools in a sunshiny and pollution free 
I setting.
On BYUs open and beautiful campus, 
I entertainment and recreation abounds in 
nearly continual professional quality 
theater, dance and music productions; four 
I ram pus cinemas specialize in current, his
torical comedy and foreign films; the physi
cal education (and other departments) 
facilities are unmatched in quality and var
iety (indoor tennis, saunas, etc.) West of the
Mississippi; a large on campus recreation 
center provides indoor miniature golf, 
bowling, air hockey, ping pong, etc.; 2 or 3
dances occur weekly  and these represent 
campus sponsored opportunities and dont 
include the club, frat, sorority, and church 
sponsored parties and activities.
Saturday and Sunday mornings are 
greeted with a minimum of DiGel and 
aspirin and since warm weather and sun
shine is guaranteed daily, they can be spent 
lounging by the pool, windsurfing the local 
fresh water lake, tubing the local river (clear 
mountain water) or hiking the mountains 
only a stone throw away.
Scoring is subordinated to having good 
old fashioned fun and sexual pressure is 
reduced allowing for more free and casual 
dating. I he Hunt is replaced by greater 
equality and it is not uncommon for women 
to ask men out.
Believe me, the benefits of BYU are well 
worth the self discipline and grooming 
required.
Kent Lowell 
GSIA
Graduate in Florida remembers life at CMU
I Editor:
May I reminisce for a moment about days I gone by at Camegie-Mellon???As some of you might remember it wasnt too terribly long ago that I was a college student. In fact I graduated a semester early I in December of 82.
Happily I got a job working as a staffwri- ter for The Post of Palm Beach, Fla. HowI ever Im writing this message not to brag [about my accomplishments, but to confess that I really miss ol CMU. I never thought it possible to miss that despicable place. But every once and a while I find myself in a reverie about the green pastures I left behind | in Pittsburgh.Here is a list of things I miss and things you might miss too when CMU is only a | memory;
certain professors with a sense of 
humor,
insane (only insane) parties with cam
pus characters, 
watching nerds,
going to openings at The Kresge 
Theater,
acting foolish in Salads Plus, 
cutting classes just to sit on the hill, 
finding devious ways to procrastinate, 
sleep.
Tiiats right, sleep. I had a little habit of 
sleeping through classes  I found out 
quick that it doesnt go over big in a job.
Also sometimes I handed in assignments 
late  this also is unforgivable with news
paper deadlines.
You could always drop a class if you 
didnt get along with the professor or if you 
found the class a bore  in the real world 
if you dont get along with an editor or 
supervisor well thats just too bad.
It was always nice to be able to say Hell, I 
dont know what Im going to do when I get 
out of this place  unfortunately I cant 
say that any more.
In addition, I have to deal here with peo
ple asking me 199 questions about my past 
life, why I came there and what Im doing
there  in college, people only ask basically 
three questions, you know these.
But the thing I really miss most of all is 
the self-contained world of CMU. There 
was always a shoulder to cry on when I 
needed one. I could always say: F- this, 
and go to a movie, or B.S. with someone or 
sleep.
Sometimes I feel trapped in my job  got
to be responsible, got to get up, look like 
something, be somebody, stay there until the 
day is done.
But before you start feeling too sorry for 
me, just remember Im in sunny Florida, 
and guess how I spend my weekends now  
at the beach.
Leslie Weinberg 
(former Professional Writing major)
Everyone has a religion
V
FaR, TMe aRMS BuiLpuP Ha pReVeNTep:
f.r ' I
a FRi6HTeNiN6
eSca*fioN oF 
ScWooL
LuNcHe&. $ \ Trie OMiNOUS
PecTeR oF 
FboR PeoPLe 
GeTTiN6
a PeTaBiLiziNG BuiLPuP LeaL ai P. 
oF TMe aRTS.
Trie MasSive 
PROLi FeRaTioH 
oF cLLeee 
GRaPuaTe.
RockyiThePIKAB
NEA CPS
Editor:
\ Scott Safier is correct in saying that reli
gion on campus comes in your mail, is 
painted on the fence, comes into your rooms 
and is preached in front of Doherty. But in 
his Opinion in the April 19 Tartan he did 
not even begin to touch on the pervasive 
influence of religion at CMU. His definition 
of religion is far too limited.
Life is religion, everyone is religious, we 
are all living for something be it ourselves, 
our majors, the fraternity, our terminal, or 
God. Worship occurs on the fifth floor of 
Science Hall as well as in the cathedral. 
Religion is the set of values in which you 
place your belief and trust. If you believe 
computers are the ultimate solution to man
kinds problems you are as religious as those
of us who believe in salvation through Jesus 
Christ. Andrew' Carnegie wrote a book 
entitled The Gospel of Wealth in which he 
talks about faith in science and technol
ogy. And take a look at the words to the 
Alma Mater  its a hymn praising art and 
science.
Yes, we all have different religious beliefs 
and practices, but dont be blind to the gos
pel that is preached to you every day from 
the rowr of houses on Morewood Avenue, 
from the classrooms and from Wramer Hall. 
Those of us who claim Jesus Christ as Lord 
arent the only ones who are religious.
Meg Durkin 
Campus Minister 
Shadyside Presbyterian Church
Onion soup is offensive
continued from page 2
students time is valuable; I wish they 
wouldnt do this so-called economizing at 
students expense. A slight variant erf the 
close one line ploy is the Continental 
Breakfast offered in Line 2 on some days; 
this is a classy way of saying that there is 
no hot food.
Maybe other branches of the adrnii stration dont care about the students, and just 
want to turn this place into a corporate 
research facility, but as the name implies, 
Food Service is here to provide a service to 
the students; so their needs must be consi
dered. Maybe I would better appreciate eco
nomizing on the part of Food Service if that 
allowed them to lower their food contract 
prices.
While Im on the subject of Food Service, 
I could never understand why French
Onion Soup.al ways stays out for at least two 
days (for both lunch and dinner) while 
Clam Chowder, which I like better, is usu
ally there for only one meal. This is proba
bly because hardly anybody wants French 
Onion Soup, and they keep putting it out 
there until it is finally used up. So why dont 
they make less of it to begin with?
Finally, I am not too pleased with the 
quality of their weekend brunch. which 
combines breakfast and lunch, and is usu
ally worse than either. At this meal they do 
not have any soup (which is normally part 
of lunch) or tumed-over eggs (which are 
normally available in Line 1 at breakfast), 
and the quality of food in general at this 
meal is inferior. The weekend Hash 
Browns, in particular, are practically inedi
ble, and seem to consist mosdy of grease.
Dan Tobias 
Applied Math/Comp Sd 86

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanApril 26, 1983
IBM personal computers brought to university
Forbersid npoa gtui k
Software has been developed for the per
sonal computers which mimics Emacs and 
Scribe. This is expected to greatly reduce the 
load on Tops-20, since editing work is often 
repetitious, Sholar pointed out. He 
remarked that people sometime run Scribe, 
a text-formatting system, up to fifteen times 
on a single manuscript.CPAC's value explored
Forbersid npoa gtui k
CPACs value in future planning, he com
mented, Without them, it would be a 
disaster.
The director of H&SS Computing, Dr. 
John Stucky, said of the current program, I 
dont think were doing a bad job getting to 
our goals. However, he did feel that Van 
Houwelings earlier proposals had resulted 
in an overexpansion of computing access 
without sufficient ability to cover for it. 
Although Stuckey said that CP AC had some 
influence over policy decisions, he did not 
feel that the administration was very recep
tive to input from other sources.
Both Stuckey and Director are pleased 
that Dean John Crecine, who was recently 
promoted to the office of Sr. V.P. for Aca
demic Affairs, will be directing computing 
in the years to come since both feel he 
actively supports the expansion of student 
access to computers.
Although many student users have 
opposed the institution of controls to limit 
access to the system, it seems the general 
concensus of those interviewed that some
thing had to be done to reduce the overload 
on the TOPS systems.
With the new software, MINCE (Mince Is 
Not Completely Emacs), and Scribble, a 
form of Scribe, preliminary work can be 
done on the IBMs. Furthermore, as a large 
proportion of office computing consists of 
text processing, and a large proportion of 
office work is done during peak periods, 
system demand will decrease during these 
periods.
MINCE and Scribble are not perfect repli
cas of their parent programs; MINCE is a 
smaller package made to fit on a smaller 
machine. For clerical workers, it does about 
90% of what they need to do, said Sholar.
However, Sholar continued, hackers 
may not be as satisfied with MINCE, as it 
doesnt have some of the more intricate abili
ties of Emacs. Yet, since the systems are comphoto by. Raj Viswanathan 
IBM computers arrived recently as part of the transition into personal computing.
patible, work done on the personal 
computer can be transferred to the main 
frame Tops-20, and there undergo final revi
sions and adaptions.
In the future, CMU plans to sell floppy 
disk copies of MINCE and Scribble for 
about $125. Although blank diskettes cost 
about three dollars, the University must pay 
royalties to the company which developed 
the software.
Currently, it has not been determined 
how personal computers will be secure 
against theft of their software. Either stu
dents will have to buy or rent their own 
diskettes, or some other method of security 
will have to be developed.
Sholar believes that the advantages of 
using personal computer definitely out
weigh the disadvantages. For example, 
when the Tops-20 system crashes, work 
done on personal computer s will be unaf
fected, while work done on dummy termi
nals will be lost.
A student can save course work from one 
year to the next on a floppy disk. Also, there 
is no peak period or time constraints with 
a personal computer. Sholar contends that 
the limitations are more than offset by the 
fact that you dont have to worn about 
these problems which accompany system 
overload.
Police report
Suspicious persons arrested around MMP, Morewood
By NANCY RITCHEYTartan Staffuniter
Within the last month, campus police 
have arrested three persons who were found 
in CMU buildings under suspicious cir
cumstances, said Chief Robert Fadzen, of the 
latest campus security activities.
On Saturday, April 19, campus police
OPEN
CABER CLUB
MARGARET
MORRISON
PLAZA
CMU TOTAL FITNESS FACILITY
CALL FOR AN APPOINTMENT 
OR A FREE WORKOUT 
OR JUST STOP IN 
AND SEE THE CLUB
FOR INFORMATION OR APPOINTMENT 
CALL 578-8876
HOURS 
MON.  FRI. 
SAT 
SUN.
10-10:00
10-6:00
12-6:00
apprehended an individual in the Margaret 
Morrison building. One of our officers rec
ognized him as someone arrested on campus 
last year for theft, Fadzen said. He added 
that the suspect was told at that time never to 
return to campus. According to Fadzen, this 
suspect uses the names of prominent people 
to identify himself in order to avoid arrest.
Another suspicious person was appre
hended at 2:30 p.m. in Morewood Gardens 
dormitory. He was reported by a resident in 
the dormitory. According to Fadzen, when 
the suspect could not account for his pres
ence in the dormitory, his background was 
investigated and he was found to have a 
criminal record.
Fadzen said that based on the fact that he 
was trespassing, he was arrested. We felt at 
this time that he was in the building for 
reasons other than were honorable, Fadzen 
said. He has a hearing which is in the 
judicial process. He continued; This is 
one of the reasons why we worry so much
about propping doors open in the dormito
ries. People can be inviting disaster.
Two arrests were made for theft. One 
CMU student and one University of Pitts
burgh student were arrested for the theft of 
$230 from a vending machine in Wean Hall, 
rhey were apprehended in front of Skibo, 
according to Fadzen. This case has been 
held for court, he added.
Magazine solicitors are yearly problems 
to the CMU security department. This year 
an organization from Texas was warned by 
security in Morewood Gardens to leave cam
pus on April sixth. They were told not to 
return, according to Fadzen. However, one 
young woman was spotted the next day in 
Doherty Apartments. She was issued a cit
ation, Fadzen said.
Fadzen concluded, I am glad that we are 
apprehending them. Its important to point 
out to students that if they see anyone who 
doesnt belong or if they have any doubts 
about intruders to call security immediately."
PREGNANT? Call ATA 
Let's talk about your options.
HOTLINE; (412) 731-2420 
PREGNANCY TESTING: 391-4706 
908 Penn Avenue, Downtown 
8-10 a.m. W; 11 a.m.-1 p.m. 
MTTFS
Free and confidential informa
tion, counseling, pregnancy 
testing and related services.
ALTERNATIVES TO ABORTION 
INC
a non-profit organization
UJomcfTs
Health
Services
Now...
Two Pregnancy 
Testing Locations
Oakland
Room 212
Parkvale Plaza Buildings 
3520 Forbes Ave. (cor. Meyran) 
Pittsburgh. PA 15213 
(412) 683-3730
Downtown
625 Stanwix Street 
12th FloorAllegheny Tower 
Pittsburgh. PA 15222 
(412) 562-1914
Free pregnancy testing daily Call for hours jnd 
instructions Confidential counseling available
Squirrel Ulill Syctiquci
$2000 OFF any purchase of prescription lens and frames
$1000OFF nonprescription sunglasses 
2242 ^Munrnf 
Let'sa CWds lskb'osu 15217
Qpluutn  i(4J 5?
HOURS M W F S 10AM 5PM 
T H 10AM 8 30PM

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
CMU singer is "Miss Washington County
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Features Editor
Tammy Dieter is a junior here study
ing vocal performance. Big deal, so you
sayShe is from Youngstown, Ohio, 
weighs 100 pounds, and is not a buggy
pusher.
So what?
Last week, the soprano and president 
of Sigma Alpha Iota, the professional 
music sorority, received-a letter titling 
her, (drum roll, please), Miss Washing
ton County . This honor will send her to 
Altoona on June 16th for the Miss Pen
nsylvania pageant to compete against 21 
other girls for the Miss America title.
Unlike the Miss U. S. A. Pageant, Miss 
America is judged 50% by the contestants 
talent; in addition, the event is not a 
beauty contest, but a scholarship page
ant. The winner of Miss Pennsylvania 
will win 15,000 dollars, 3 cars (for the 
change of seasons, joked Dieter), plus a 
scholarship. She is also required to live in 
Altoona for a year; a four-page, one-year 
contract prohibits Miss Pennsylvania 
from drinking in public, endorsing any 
products, or from conducting herself 
inappropriately; otherwise, her crown 
will be revoked.The remainder of the criterion is the same as other pageants; the girls will be judged in evening gowns, swimsuits, and by her presence in the dreaded interview. 
According to the 21-year-old, 5'4", blue- green-eyed soprano,The interview is the Worst part; you dont know what youre gonna get hit with.
Dieter is prepared for changes in her life. Im going to be expected to do
personal appearances in Washington 
County. The multi-awarded high 
school and college singer is looking for
ward to these appearances, especially 
riding in convertibles in parades, and 
speaking at ladies luncheons.
Thus far, professors have been verysupportive, but, at first her family was 
hesitant about the whole ordeal, con
cerned that schoolwork would play 
second fiddle to the pageant. The other 
girls arent jealous. . .yet. Everyone is 
extremely supportive, but Im told that it 
wears away, though.
Dieter, who has sung twice at N. Y. s 
Carnegie Music Hall, with George Gee, 
as a back-up vocalist for Paul Anka when 
he was in Pittsburgh this summer, and as 
a featured vocalist with Benny Beraka 
and the Dodge Kids, says that the whole 
show is extremely non-political; its 
checked out thoroughly. During the 
pageant in June, the contestants are 
placed under a 24-hour chaperon. They 
are not permitted to see friends or family 
while staying at the chaperons home; 
they are victims of what Dieter calls a 
pageant prison.
I think its every little girls dream to 
do this, she said. Even though she is 
nervous about the prospect of standing in 
front of judges and being stared at for 
ten minutes, when you have to walk out 
in front of 3,000 people, you sort of have 
to get used to it.
Dieter will be singing I Gotta Be Me, 
which she chose because I have two 
minutes and fifty seconds to tell them 
about me. Your song represents you. 
Only one person can be the winner. Its 
you against you.Botanical Institute is a change of pace
By MICHAEL HEANEYSpecial for the TartanEvery time you walk into Hunt Library, theres a sign that says Hunt Botanical Institute  Penthouse. As you pass the sign you wonder what an institute of botany, the oldest and most esoteric science, is doing at CMU, the professional choice. Youd like to see if this place is for real, but the Unit Operations exams is in two hours and if you dont study. . .
Well if you had ever followed your curios- UY up to the fifth floor penthouse, you would have been awed by an atmosphere totally set apart from the campus below. From the beautiful teak floors and French walnut paneling to the luxurious tapestries 
and chandeliers it is immediately apparent that this place is very different from the rest f the university. The Institute is devoted to the study and preservation of botanical hist0ry, which seems sort of strange consider- lng that not a single course in botany is offered here. The Institute seems so ouf of Place that it seems a wonder that it wasnt inverted to Robotics labs long ago. But 
cynicism turns to respect when you leam that this is a internationally known facility for research in botanical history and the nlv one of its kind in the country. Their catalogues contain the most comprehensive 
Section of contemporary botanical artists 
n(l illustrators anywhere. Welcome totany U.
The Hunt Institute for Botanical Docuta tionlibiis not a supplement to the 
irai7, but is actually the main reason why 
built. In 1961 when Mr. and Mrs. Roy 
Hunt were looking for a showcase for 
eir extensive botanical collation, they tC|ded to build a library under it almost as 
af,(rthought. There were even plans to
start a botany department as part of the uni
versity, but these were never carried out. 
Today, Hunt Institute for Botanical Docu
mentation continues to be funded by the 
Hunt Foundation.
Although the Institute initially has the 
appearance of a private art gallery, it is prim
arily a research institute. Its patrons are bot
anists, artists, and publishers from all over 
the world who are searching for a rare botan
ical drawing or publication. Much of the
Adventures abound with 
cycle tours
Adventure for all ages setslhe tone for the 
1983 Highroad to Adventure travel bro
chure now available from American Youth 
Hostels. The Highroad lists more than 25 
exciting, inexpensive bicycle, treking, and 
mini-bus tours throughout the U.S., Can
ada, Europe, and Asia.
The small group atmosphere of an 
A.Y.H. tour fosters a true esprit de corp. 
Based on the idea of sharing the load, the 
tours encourage each person to participate 
in their own vacation. The results are last
ing friendships unique to hostels and 
hosteling.
A.Y.H. tours range in length from nine 
days to six weeks, with departures scheduled 
throughout the spring, summer, and fall. 
Prices are reasonable, with many prices 
either the same or lower than last year. 
Tours are priced between $20 to $35 per day, 
which includes all lodging, meals, entrance 
ui ntu w'*dntinued on page 7
institutes work is carried out through 
correspondence.
In addition to the research facilities, there 
is usually a display of botanical drawings, 
both artistic and scientific. Two weeks ago, 
for example, the Fifth International Exhibi
tion of Botanical Art 8c Illustration opened. 
This fall the Institute will launch its most 
important exhibit ever, Flora Portrayed: 
Classics of Botanical Art from the Hunt 
Institute Collection. In addition, several of 
its exhibitions are continuously out on loan
Sadly, the Insutute gets little use from 
within the university. Since there are no 
botanists at CMU outside the Institute, the 
only users are an occasional architect or 
artist. This is unfortunate since the Institute 
is definitely worth experiencing. Even if you 
dont know the difference between a day-lily 
and a daffodil and dont care, the Institute 
offers a uniquely tranquil refuge. The 
atmosphere is as opposite from the rest of 
the university as is imaginable, yet only 
moments awav.
photo by Pauline Kramer
English Dept. Profs Gerry Contanzo and Pete Jones after the Adamson Awards ceremony.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanApril 26, 1983
Military engineers travel
S.A.M.E. sees political involvements in engineering
The Society of American Military Engi
neers (S.A.M.E.) sponsored a trip to the Gulf 
Research Center in Harmarville, Pa., March
6 for members and friends of the society. The 
group was guided by Michael E. Prudich, a 
Ph.D of Chemical Engineering who has 
worked at Gulf for four years as a research 
engineer.
The engineers were first shown a compu
terized qualitative mass spectrometer used 
for catalysis identification, then observed a 
small-scale reactor used in petroleum distil
lation to analyze how the various catalysts 
worked in actual use. This project has been 
continuing since 1978 and is expected to 
have results implemented in industry by 
1986.
Next, a completely automated laboratory 
with three separate larger scale distillation 
columns was shown. This lab required the 
integration erf several different microproces
sors to run its complex reactors. An empha
sis on safety was also given high priority in 
these labs.
The tour continued with a trip through 
the now shut down P99 coal liquification 
plant. The group saw practical solutions to 
real-world engineering problems, and was
given a short lecture on the politics involved 
with many such research projects.
After lunch, a talk was given about under
ground coal gasification (UCG). UCG was 
compared to mining, and an engineering 
analysis erf this was emphasized.
Overall the group met approximately five 
chemical engineering Ph.Ds and one
Mechanical Engineer in Chemical Engi
neering. A question and answer session 
prior to departure dealt primarily with the 
educational qualifications required and 
desired for this particular type of job, the 
aspects erf conception, design and imple
mentation of individual research projects, 
and the relationship; between industry andGet facts on herpes
Genital herpes is todays most devastating 
sexually transmitted disease. Twenty mil
lion Americans are now infected and this 
year there will be over 500,000 new infec
tions among young adults and teenagers. 
Unlike other sexually transmitted diseases 
herpes, a lifelong physically and emotion
ally painful disease, is a parasitic virus that is 
a chronic condition. Reactivation can occur 
five to six times every year. Infection now 
will alter your entire future. There is no 
known cure.
Now a two part publication describing 
herpes is available to students from Federal 
Reprints. Obtained from the National Insti
tute of Allergy and Infectious Disease and 
the Centers for Disease Control, the nations
Marcelle's Typing Service
Sptcimlues in Word 
Processing
ThesesManuscriptsResearch/term 
papersresumes/repetitive letters 
(TurabianAPAMLA strongly observed)
Fast Efficient Reasonable 
Call Ms. West 371-3657 
(24 hour service) 
10% discount with coupon
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
For a confidential friend call: 
LIFELINE
Downtown Pgh. 
Beaver County 
Mon Valley 
Butler County
562-0543
843-0505
489-9020
282-1200
THE NATIONAL CENTER FOR EDUCATIONAL TESTINGLSAT/ GMAT
PREPARATION COURSES
NCET OFFERS: Extensive 40-kr. or 32-hr. "Weekender" courses 
Live lectures  Simulated exam conditions  Special tiome-study 
materials * Tape library  Up-to-date course materials  Counseling
LSAT 40-hr begins May 19 
TheNwsw 32-hr begins June 4
For a free brochure and an invitation to a free sample class covering 
the LSAT/GMAT exams and the Law School Graduate Business School 
admission process, call now:
T0U. FREE (800) 223-2618
The Rational Center ter Educational Testing 
1271 y'u ef the Americas, Suite 777 
Hew rk, R.Y. 10020
THE LATEST IN ELECTRONIC GAMES/PINBALL MACHINES
Domestics
12 oz . & 16 oi. cans (& quarts)
STROMS
L0WN8RAU It , 0k 
MICHIL0B 
BUOWflSfR 
MIUEft
010 fNGUSH 800 
SCHUTZ MALT 
IRON CITY 
RUNGR - bottles 
GENfSSfE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHMIDTS 
RABST 
SCHUTZ
Pi ARI (Tenosl  
D0U8U DARK - 
BIATZ 
RIELS
OLD MILWAUKEE 
PINK CHAMPALE
COLT 5 
MILLER LITE 
MICHEL06 LITE 
IRON CITY LIGHT
bottle*
FEATURING 22 VARIETIES OF SUBSSieok  Co'ntd Beet  Tuno  turkey
SANDWICHESHaddock  Cod  Ground Steok  Soutoge Veal  Chuck  CNtcken Parmeson
bottles
bottles
SPECIALTY ITEMSSteak Subi  f re*h Cut French f net Mot Dogs with choice oM2 condiments Piuo served till 3 amWE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICESServing beer Sunday 1 pm 2 am Imports Cons Quarts Draft Pitchers Mugs Your Choice of 6 Dr oft Beers HEINEKEN  MOLSON ALE  MICHELOB STROHS  MILLERS  SCHIIIZ MALT One dtHfftni !A oi 6 pk teaturd e<xH weekSTROHS  ROILING ROCK  SCHTZ OLD ENGLISH 800  SCHLIT2 MAlT  PABST
ImportsKCKSlt 0k  Germany IASS Allf ifltond HAJtP LAGtt  Ireland M01S0N XMN-Conodo HfNtfKEN It 0k HoMand 10WMMAU-Germany 0 KKFf AU-Conodo PUS UROUfllCieih KIRIN-- Japon
ST PAULI GIRI-Germany DOS fOOIS XX Mernco JOHN COURAGf-England KATNITS-fnalond CARLSBERG ELEPHANT - Den CARLSBERG ROY AU - Denmark CARLSBERG DARK Denmark TSINGTA0 Chmo HACKE* PSCH0RR-Germany LABATTSConodoMACK1SS0N STOUT - I. eland MURPHY - Ireland 010 VIENNA I AGED Conodo COOPEI A SON-Australia SS LAGER - Caado FOSTER S LAGER - Austrgha
HOT DOG SHOPS, INC
Open
9am 3 45am Sun Thurs 
9am 4 45om fn Sot 
Call 621 7388 or 621 1185 
3901 Forbes Ave Oakland) 
Pgh PA I 52! 3
foremost authorative research centers for 
infectious diseases. Part I answers over 50 
questions candidly and factually about 
Herpes Type I and Herpes Type II; infec
tious conditions, interchange of Oral and 
Genital Herpes; latent virus; prevention and 
treatment. Part II of these studies detail over 
25 treatments, drugs and ointments that 
many victims, desperate for help, have 
turned to. Compounds and treatments that 
have no proven value for the treatment of 
Genital Herpes and which in some cases 
may even be harmful. Also included is a 
report from the U.S. Public Health Service 
describing Acylovir (ACV) the most promis
ing new drug for the treatment of Genital 
Herpes.
Now the vital facts of this physically and 
emotionally crippling disease can be known 
to every' young adult and teenager that is 
sexually active or considering becoming 
active, facts that will help to avoid infection 
and a lifetime of anguish.
Herpes Facts, $5.95 to Students. Order 
from: Federal Reprints, P.O. Box 8931, 
Washington, D.C. 20003. Postpaid.
the universities in high-technology research
The Society erf American Military Engi 
neers, is a professional association of engi. 
neers from all fields erf civilian and military 
engineering practices and industry'. Tfo 
Society, in fulfilling its purpose, forms 
link between a civilian and military engi 
neers for the development erf resources and 
facilities in the national economy and for 
the enhancement of the engineering profes
sion through continuing education.
The Pittsbuigh Student Post is organise 
under the auspices of the Pittsburgh Post of 
the Society and offers membership to all 
regular undergraduate engineering students 
and members erf federal military training 
units at colleges and universities across the 
United States.
Membership to students is offered at 
reduced price erf |6.00 per annum versus 
$29.00 per annum for remaining members. 
Current membership comprises over 17,500 
civilian engineers, 800 engineering students 
and 3,700 Armed Forces officers.
Benefits derived from the Society include 
professional conferences conducted for the 
presentation and discussion of appropriate 
engineering topics and for social and profes 
sional association with engineers topics and 
for social and professional association with 
engineers and industry representatives, sub
scription to the bi-monthly journal, reduced 
price on engineer related books, low 
group life insurance, and selected annual 
awards of merit.
Information concerning membership can 
be obtained by contacting Scott Hamilton, 
A37 Donner, x4132.
PREPARE FORMCAT  LSAT-GMAT SAT-DAT-GRE  CPA
Permanent Centers open days, evenings and weekends.Low hourly cost. Dedicated fulltime staff.
Complete TEST-n-TAPciVfacilities for review of class lessons and supplementary materials.
Small classes taught by skilled instructors.
 Opportunity to make up missed lessons. Voluminous home-study materials constantly updated by researchers expert in their field.
 Opportunity to transfer to-and continue study, at any of our over 85 centers.
OTHER COURSES AVAILABLE
GRE PSYCH & BIO  MAT  PCAT  OCAT  VAT  TOEFL 
MSKP  NMB  VQE  ECFMG  FLEX  NDB  NLE
Call Days Eve< ft Wprlon'H
Essex House L12 
IM Corners Center, N eg ley & Baur 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206EDUCATIONAL CENTER
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938661-2772
1
Cancer strikes 120,000 people in our work force 
every year. Although no dollar vale can ever 
be placed on a human life, the fact remains that 
our economy loses more than $10 billion in 
earnings every year that cancer victims would have 
generated. Earnings they might still be generating 
if they had known the simple facts on how to 
protect themselves from cancer.
Now you can dc\something to protect your 
employees, your company, and yourself.. call 
your local unrt of the American Cancer Society 
and ask for their free pamphlet, "Helping 
Your Employees to Protect Themselves 
Against Cancer" Start your company on a 
policy of good health today!
American Cancer Society

---------------------------------------------------

April 26, 1983The TartanPage 7
DU & Chi O sit for $$
money, at
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Features Editor
Tis the season to raise 
Carnegie-Mellon, anyway.
Following the recent fundraising efforts 
of Theta Xi, Kappa Alpha Theta, and Delta 
Tau Delta, fraternity Delta Upsilon and sor
ority Chi Omega have teamed up as spon
sors of a gigantic musical chairs benefit 
for the Allegheny County Chapter of the 
Easter Seals Society.
This charitable chairs production will 
be staged'on the Skibo cut this Saturday 
from noon through three, with $1000 worth 
of prizes to be given away, including $125 
worth of luggage, records, Sonys walkman, 
and dinner gift certificates.
According to Douglas Den, DUs Chap
ter Relations Secretary and this projects 
chairman, anyone can enter with a two dol
lar donation; the DU brother is accommo
dating for 1500 participants. Tickets are 
available at the Information Desk this week.
Easter Seals is involved with the rehabili
tation of all sorts of ailments, primarily the 
crippled, said Derr. The idea of walking 
and sitting  doing things that the kids 
cant do  was partially spawned by a 
quest to break the Guiness record of 4,500 
plus people in a musical chairs event.
We went through the Guiness book to 
look for odd things. Doing musical chairs 
on such a scale is an odd thing, smiled 
Derr. We wanted to do something fun, some
thing visible for everyone to get involved.
Music will be provided by WRCT or 
Activities Board; two guest disc jockeys, each 
from 94 and 96 FM, will host llA hour shifts 
beginning at 12:30. According to Derr, the 
B-94 Bee will be there buzzing around. 
Derr also hopes for television coverage, pos
sibly by P.M. Magazine.Sleeping baggers receiving an orientation in Skibo last week.
photo by John Legelis
aSalty dog" bike trek brakes in Cape Cod
continued from page 5
fees to attractions, qualified group leader, 
transfers while on the tour, tips, taxes, and 
health insurance.
Of special interest in 1983 are the 17 bicy
cle tours in the United States and Europe. 
These tours are designed for all ages and 
every level of cycling experience. One exam
ple is the two-week salty dog tour. For 
only $390, the salty dog cyclist can enjoy 
the warm sun, and blue sea of Cape Cod, 
Marthas Vineyard and Nantucket.
For overseas bicycling adventure, there is
the saddlebag special tour. This trip 
wanders through the English countryside, 
historic French vineyards, and lovely Dutch 
villages.
Other cycling adventures include tours of 
the California Coast, the Canadian Rockes, 
the romantic roads of Germany, Austria, 
and Switzerland, or the rugged coastline of 
Nova Scotia and Cape Beton Island.
For the non-cyclists there are mini-bus 
tours throughout North America, train trips 
across Europe, and hiking in the 
Himalayas.
A popular trip is the fall foliage tour 
designed for senior citizens. This two-week 
mini-bus trip explores the backroads of old 
New England during the peak of fall color. 
Priced under $540, these are ideal tours for 
the young-at-heart traveler.
There is an element every 1983 trip has in 
common and that is hosteling. Hosteling is 
sharing a travel and living experience with 
others. This concept is promoted by the 
5,000 hostels in operation in 50 countries 
around the world. Hostels are unique, lowcost accomodations open to members of 
-A.Y.H. and other national hosteling associa
tions. Hostels range from cabins to castles, 
ships, lodges, or lighthouses, and cost 
between $3.50 and $10 per night.
The 1983 Highroad to Adventure is 
available free by writing to: Pittsburgh 
Council A.Y.H., 6300 Fifth Avenue, Pitts
burgh, PA 15232, (Please include two 20C 
stamps for postage) or call (412) 362-8181.
mchI
If youre a senior and have the promise of a $10,000 career-oriented job, American 
Express would like to offer you the American Express Card.
What are we?
Crazy?
No, confident. Confident of your future. But even more than that. Were 
confident of you now. And were proving it.
A $10,000 job promise. Thats it. No strings. No gimmicks. And this offer is 
even good for 12 months after you graduate.
But why should you get the American Express Card now?
Well, if youre planning a trip across country or around the world, the 
American Express Card is a real help. Get plane tickets with it. Then use it for 
hotels and restaurants all over the world. And, if you should need any help while 
youre away, just go to any American Express Travel Service Office* wherever you
are-and theyll help out.
Of course, the Card also helps you 
establish your credit history. And its great 
for restaurants and shopping right at home.
So call 800-528-8000 for a Special 
Student Application or look for one at your 
college bookstore or on campus bulletin boards
The American Express Card. Dont leave 
school without it.
Look for an application on campus.
A charismatic 
prayer meetin; 
every Friday 
night at 8 p.m 
at Mellon 
Institute 
Bellefield Ave. 
(Across from 
Heinz Chapel) 
Oakland, Pa. 
call Rege for 
information; 
262-3950.
U
(0
J
Ia
tin
bugey,s Am*TK.mifs ,u Reprf'c-nr iniAroeru.m txpres*! W*
What Wilt You Be 
Doing In June?
SILVAR-LISCO
is a leader in developing 
state-of-the-art interactive design automation tools. We 
develop and market a wide range of integrated software 
capabilities in the areas of database management, logic 
capture, simulation, logic verification, 1C layout and 
hardware synthesis.
Innovative design algorithms and color-graphics features for automating the design function are developed for both mainframe and workstation environments.
Full-time and Summer Research and Development positions are available for candidates with backgroundsin:
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERIM 
COMPUTER SCIENCE
Interested candidates should 
forward a cover letter and 
resume to:
SILVAR-LISCO
Dept. S15 
1801 Page MM Road 
Suite 220A 
Palo Alto, CA 94303
We arc an
qua) opportunity employ?mm

---------------------------------------------------

MAKE YOUR 
RESERVATIONS 
NOWFOR
THE LO VE BOATPARTY
DANCE ON 
To: G-FORCE
RACER
CONTEST
The guy who brings the most girls
and
The girl who brings the most guys
WINS 
DINNER FOR TWO!

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
Special for the Tartan
This week Forbes Gallery is exhibiting 
the paintings, drawings, and illustrations of 
Tracy Ginther, Diane Lemonides, and 
Sherri Wolfgang.
' The mysterious world of 
nightmares and unexpected fear 
Jr is the source for Tracy Ginthers
m drawings and paintings. The oil
pastel drawings portray eerie scenes of one 
or two savage-looking dogs within a 
bluned, enigmatic ground. Sound images, 
or jagged, line representations of humanly 
incomprehensible information move above 
the dogs heads in the swirling atmosphere. 
The highly worked gray and black images 
are surrounded and, consequently, further 
removed from the human viewer, by trafficof anatomical structure, Wolfgang creates 
pictures of flight within a birds wings. Most 
of the drawings show a dark image against a 
lighter ground.
Symmetry and balance of verticle and 
horizontal lines control Wolfgangs large 
painting of two women and four birds. In 
this work the landscape behind the women 
functions more as a background or screen, as 
does the light ground in the drawings, 
lather than giving the viewer specific infor
mation about the women.
The painting seems to be about geometry 
rather than women or birds. The artists 
efforts to represent a more symbolic, enig
matic aspect of flight result in her dark, 
expressively painted canvas of a birds wings 
and two rocks.
dynamic figures within Diane Lemonides 
paintings reflect the artists study of German 
Expressionism. In one work a large, welldressed woman is on display within an 
arena filled with purple and green figures. 
Another painting shows a determined 
woman in a large hat and garishly colored 
clothes moving quickly away from a nude 
male figure behind her. Lemonides more 
recent work shows she is moving away from 
the clean colors and clear, bold shapes of the 
other work to portray the .contemporary 
world.
A painting of a woman walking her dog 
shows a freer and humorous handling of 
paint and image. The woman has a sensu
ous looseness undiscovered in Lemonides 
earlier work. Other work by Lemonides 
shows a stiff, mannequin figure with an 
expressively worked, monochromatic, rec
tangular dress against a ground of direc
tional strokes of pastel color. The artist 
writes cryptic and mundane messages across 
the bottom of the painting. These paintings 
involve the invidious and ridiculous impor
tance that American society places on a 
womans appearance.
Lemonides wedding picture, showing a 
lone woman within a dark, slashed ground 
with wedding rice, is a strong work. This 
bride, whose identity is lost within a mass of 
net, is facing an unpleasant future.
The show extends through Saturday, 
April 30.
This semesters final show at Forbes 
Gallery will be of the paintings, drawings, 
fiber work, and installation work of Patty 
Weston and Aniette Simcic. The last show 
will run from May 3 until May 7.
The viewer is given more information in 
Ginthers paintings. The savage dogs exist 
within a recognizable landscape or within a 
less threatening area of distinct and brightly 
colored shapes. However, the artist still con
fines the dog to the world of the night, when 
experiences have dream-like uncertainty after 
the fact.
The back room contains Ginthers sculp
tural installations of a huge, black metal 
vortex. The metal swirls through and 
around the room, drawing the viewer 
toward its suggested jagged center.
Sherri W7olfgangs pencil drawings are a 
celebration of freely made marks and the 
resulting textural, dynamic images formed. 
Working with soft and very hard pencils, an
Artists Diane Lemonides, Sherri Wolfgang, and Tracy Ginther will open their show at Forbes Gallery tonight at 7 p.m.
Jeff Lorber interviewed
Keith Senior, Tartan Staffwriter, recently 
conducted the following interview with jazz 
artists, Jeff Lorber and Ken Gorelick. 
Ent. Ed.
doing a record and of course I was very 
much into it and Jeff Lorber was also into it. 
So we decided to make some demo tapes and 
submit them to the same record company, 
Arista Records. They seemed pretty well 
pleased with what we were doing. Through 
Jeff Lorber and our manager, Jeff Ross, we 
managed to convince them to let us do a 
record.
Tartan: Have you been pretty pleased
with the acceptance youve been getting? 
Has the album been pretty much of a hit 
for you?
Tartan: How did you two guys meet?
Lorber: Well, I guess I started the band 
about 1976 and the original sax player was 
Terry Lane who used to play with Stan 
Kenten. After awhile, he decided that he 
wanted to go on and do some other things 
and I always liked the sound of the sax and 
wanted to have a sax player in the band. But 
I had a real tough time finding someone in 
continued on page 20
Gorelick: Oh yeah, Ive been very happy 
with it. It has done very well. Its kind of 
filtering off the charts at the present time, 
but in its prime it was doing real well. 
Through Jeff Lorber touring and stuff its 
gotten a lot of acceptance by a lot of people.
Tartan: First off, Jeff, would you tell us 
about your current band?
Lorber: The current band is very similar to other bands that Ive had in that Kennys playing woodwinds, Marlin McClain is doing vocals and guitars, and myself. We have a drummer named Bruce Car ter whos playing with us right now who used to be in an R&B band with Marlin quite a few years back called Pleasure. Hes an excellent 
drummer who I used to work with before I 
actually got the band going. Hes from Portland. And on bass we have a guy named Bobby Vego whos played with Sly Stone and Ronnie Laws among many others, and hes from San Francisco. A very fine bass player.
Tartan: What happened to Danny Wil
son and Dennis Braddock ?
Lorber: They decided to form their own hand and theyre playing around Portland and trying to get their own record deal.
Tartan: Hows this new group of yours 
been working out on your current tour? 
Have you been pretty happy with it? Also, 
have you been on the road a long time?
Lorber: Ive been very happy with it, espe
cially the drummer, Bruce. Ive loved the 
way he plays for many years and Ive always 
Wanted to have him in the group. Finally, 
^ is the first ume hes been available, 
although Ive asked him probably a dozen 
times to go out with us in the past.
Tartan: Kermy, would you like to tell us 
obout your soul album and how that whole 
u^a came about?
Gorelick: Sure. About a year and a half 
a8o Jeffs manager, Jeffrey Ross, 
aPproached me with the idea of possibly
Lady photogs at Blatent Image
By CAROLYN TERNER sense of humor and an interesting choice of reading a newspaper.
Tartan Staffwriter subject; there was also a lovely photograph The show was well organized and demonA show of women photographers opened of two women on a beach called Looking strated a wide variety of subjects and
at the Blatent Image Gallery on Forbes on for Shells by Laura Freund. Job Hunting by approaches. The show will remain open
April 9. The show was organized by Connie Elaine Stone captured a woman in punk undl May 5. Gallery hours are Friday 12-6,
Hanna, Katyna Manis, Laura Miller and clothing lying on a bench next to a man Saturday 11-7, and Sunday 1-6.
Ijorraine Vullo and the Oakfr land Womens Center. Ths
Bordsky, Genevieve Harm and ;
First prize went to Andrea London for a  ~____ v-------..... 11 '
study of nude women called Untitled 2.  1 "f ___ f
Second prize went to Adrienne Radkoff for < / __ ^
an untitled jx)lar oid piece in which she pho- \ I** f <4
tographed two gloved hands many different )|** ...
times. Third prize went to Clara Matolcsy x T** ^
for a photograph of a woman with a green j
face and a cellophane-wrapped head stand- r
ing near a stove called Cookin Supper. | ~ ' ~ ~ ......
Other interesung pieces in the show ^
included a piece by Mary Carroll called * ? m *
Youve Got to Break Some Eggs, also a col- j ^ M * '
lage of polaroids; a photograph by Marla . m 4 /
Kittler called Demitre, a black and white f ,
night exposure; two photographs of child- J/
ren by Laura Miller; and two still-life studies * *- - J
of a table and chair by Eve Waldron.
Two pictures by Laura Schoch of an Katrin Brauns mixed media drawings and paintings will be on display at the Blatant Image 
obese, eldery woman in a slum showed a Gallery on May 7. Gallery hours arc 1-6 p.m. Wednesday through Sunday; 11-7, Saturday.
Paintings, drawings, illustrations at Forbes
By SARAH RATCHYE light-intensity colored borders. eraser, spattered graphite, and a strong sense The bold color, dark outline, and

---------------------------------------------------

Report die Progress of Personal Computing at CMU
Theiollowirig is an upcfcteon th progress of persona! computing at CMU. It is written by th members of th 
Student Senate/SDC Computing Commiuee and contains current information on th persona! computing issue.
The University Computing Center:
The building being constructed next to Warner Hall is now properly called the University Computing Center (or 
UGC). It is scheduled to be completed by Oct. 1, 1983. When completed, it will house the Computer Center, a 
terminal room (including a number of personal computers), a computer store, and die ITC (Information Technol
ogy Center).
The Computation Centers computers are scheduled to be moved to the UCC beginning July 1. It is estimated that 
each computer will be out of service for about 2 to 3 weeks and that it will take approximately two months to move 
all of the computers. Each user should therefore plan on being off the system for about 2 or 3 weeks this summer. If it 
is not possible to move the computers on July 1, the transfer will not take place at all this summer, but they will be 
moved the following summer. This is to insure that the systems will be in operation for the first few weeks of school 
next fall
The ITC is currently being housed in OSIA under the direction of Jim Morris
The Transition:
CMU is now in the transition stage of its agreement with IBM. Starting this fall, CMU will be integrating into the 
environment 150 personal computers per year. They will be purchased from IBM and will be able to connect to the 
TOPS and act as terminals. In addition, CMU is offering to subsidize the purchase of about 150 personal computers. 
Colleges or departments can apply to buy one for $1500, ($4200 list price) or a stronger one for $3500. These will 
hopefully ease the load on the TOPS at the end of the current semester. Individual students can also apply to buy 
similar machines at a 20% discount off the list price. These machines will have MINTZ and SCRIBBLE which are 
software packages similar to EMACS and SCRIBE. In addition, the Computation Center will be offering a 
mini-course for use of these systems.
Computing Environment:
CMU has applied to the Carnegie Corporation in New York for a grant of $1 million to support a consortium of 
schools which will develop educational applications for compuung. They have already received $45,000 and are 
optimistic about getting the rest. If the grant does go through it will be dispersed among several other colleges and 
universities in the consortium, although the support staff will be based at CMU. The purpose of the consortium is to 
disperse information on computing applications and to receive feedback and additional information. CMU expects 
to receive less than half of the $1 million grant.
In addition to this, CMU has allocated $50,000 worth of seed money for faculty here to design instructional 
software.
If you have any questions or would like more information contact:
Janette Molloy Steve Paff Scott Safier
x4608 621-7252 x41!l
Flunk'd b\ Suidrni Sniaic ;tnd SIX :

---------------------------------------------------

Apr 26, 1983-The TartanPage 11
MU's "Mikado" proves redeeming for Shapiro
VINCENT GUINTO
A Southern Mikado? Nanki-Poo with a 
accent? Hard to believe, maybe, but 
what the CMU Drama and Music 
in their production of the 
famous Gilbert 8c Sullivan 
opera. And surprisingly 
the effect is wonderful, 
tells the classic 
Nanki-Poo for 
tale unfolds 
of a small city kt 
ruled by Pooh-Bah, holder of dozens 
miscellaneous offices, and Ko-Ko, the 
foy s wimpy Chief Executioner. Arranged 
iages, impending beheadings, and 
ted slapstick intrigue and mayhem 
across the stage in a wonderful array erf
f Dispelling doubts arising after last years 
<-so-memorable Merton of the Moines, 
[(el Shapiro has proven that, yes indeed, he 
direct musical theater. The show was 
itful in every aspect, with nary a flaw 
isible anywhere.
All of the cast had excellent voices, and all 
them to good effect. John Scherer and 
slie Ellis as the leads were wonderful, 
aymg the parts of broken-hearted lovers 
[ith just enough exaggeration to make 
enjoyable.
Paul Schoeffler played Pooh-Bah, the 
wllmgly bribeable holder of practically 
ery office in town, including Dean of the 
3l of Robotics and Computer Science. 
part was by far the most humorous, 
office to office (with accomvoice, expression, and mannerism 
while getting a laugh with each
Davidson Thomsons (Ko-Ko) singing
was beyond reproach, and he added just the 
right degree of camp to the lyrics to make his 
performance good, despite a small problem 
with overacting. In the first act, he played 
the fop to the point of almost making his 
character annoying to watch; fortunately, 
this passed in -the second act, and his part fell 
into proper perspective.
Knstina Smith (Katisha) played ber part 
as the ugly woman betrothed to Nanki-Poo 
vary weH. Her rendition of a bad country 
blues tune (aka Melissa Manchester or any
other typical female country singer) got one 
of the biggest laughs of the show. The only 
difficulty with her performance was her 
weak projection. Several times the orchestra 
drowned oi<tt her lyrics. Still, she too made 
her part a pleasure to watch.
The rest of the supporting cast was also 
good, especially Michael QSteen (PishTfcish) and Portia Kamons (Pitti-Sing). 
OSteens dancing was particularly notable, 
standing out from the rest of the casts. Hie 
male chorus performed especially well also,
one of the best male choruses Ive seen.
G&S purists may balk at Shapiro and 
company's interpretation oI The Mikado, 
but if you can forget any preconceptions 
about the opera that you may have, then the 
show becomes a delightful comedy. You 
aught have some difficulty getting tickets if 
you dont already have diem; however, if 
you can get them, do so, and if you already 
have your tickets, by all means use them. 
The Mikado is, of course, showing in the 
JCresge Theatre in CFA, and closes April 3.
U2 for new opening
BY C RADCLffERHOADES
Tartan Stmffumter
Sickened by die mere thought of AB 
concerts  an organization that brought, 
Tom Verlaine, Gang of Four, and King 
Crimson ,to Pittsburgh  presenting a 
Rennaissance/Pousette-Dart excuse to 
CMU? Take heart, progressive purists, an 
antidote is on the way.
One week from today on May 3, U2 will 
kick off a new series of concerts at the 
refurnished Fulton theatre, located 
downtown at 101 Sixth Street.
This Irish quartet is touring in support of 
War, their third and most commercially 
popular album, (A review of War is 
forthcoming  Ed.) and a single New 
Years Day seemingly destined for a long 
and unfortunately hackneyed climb to 
number 1 (overplayed song in America). U2 
deserves more than its MTV/-DVE overkill 
because they tread that fine line between 
schlocky accesability and honest emotion. 
Yet despite their nearly universal media 
praise, the young band remains dedicated to 
their musical expression withoug being 
pretentious or self-righteous.
As a testimony to their reluctance to easy 
pigeon-holing, three-fourths of U2 are 
dedicated to Christian ideas in a way that 
subtly seeps into their music yet doesnt 
offend an audience that historically delights 
in offending religious thought.
While Boy, their first album, sprung from 
the discontent of eighteen-year-old lead 
vocalist Bono Box, October solidified into 
The Testament According to Bono. War 
places U2s spiritual commitment in the 
context of terror-filled Ireland. U2 ably 
combines this unique spiritual freshness 
with an equally forthright approach to their 
music.
We started out as non-musicians, Vox 
explained to Musician magazines Fred 
Schmers. We learned to play after the 
group was formed. I mean, we started to 
write our own material because we couldnt 
play other peoples. Adam (Clayton-bass) 
couldnt slap in time when he joined, Edge 
(guitar) could play sort of bad acoustic. 
Larry (Mullen-drums) had his military 
drumming, and I started singing cause I 
couldnt play guitar.
Bono relates this garage band
background to the groups latest release: 
War is meant to be a slap in the face, a slap 
in the glossy, made-upn to-be-pretty face 
which is the music of most of our 
contemporaries.
This hank attitude hopefully will set die 
tone for the Fulton theatres entrance into a 
live music scene only recently showing signs 
erf progressing from a fetid stagnation. The 
54 year-old Fulton has established a 
tradition of offering Pittsburgh 
contemporary entertainment. First 
presenting vaudeville acts and other 
performing troupes, the Fulton switched to 
motion pictures wkh the advent of the 
talkies, and now (appaiendy) will 
continue this heritage by premiering U2.
Lets hope the Fulton continues in this 
direction. Optimistically, I would hope the 
Fulton could rise above trendy MTV 
conceptions like Adam Ant and Bow Wow 
Wow. The rebuilt stage area the added 
electrical power, and the other impovements 
are fine, but what Pittsburgh really needs is: 
one, an acousticaly acceptable venue that; 
two, doesnt employ police state bouncer 
continued on page 20
A LUCKY PENNY 
CHANGE WINS YQ
CMU ARTST 
emu bookstore*
SAT. APRIL
30
SKIBO BALLROOM C-MUDANCE b
9 45 DOORS OPEN
THE FIVE
10 00 MUSIC BEGINS
SWEET OLIVE
$2.00 WITH C-MU ID.
ACTUAL SIZE
$2.50 All OTHERSSPONSORED 8Y
ADV. TICKETS ATWRCT
88.3FM ft ACTIVITIES BOARD
SKIBO INFO DESK
FREE FOOD & DRINK
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CALL 
578-2883 OR 621-WRCT
IN Kl* HALL

---------------------------------------------------

LOOK FOR ADS AND POSTERS ANNOUNCING 
PICK-UP DATES OR IF YOU HAVENT ALREADY 
BOUGHT YOUR YEARBOOK (TSK, TSK!) NOW'S 
THE TIME!
FUNDED BY STUDENT ACTIVITIES FEE
Thistles 
have 
sprung

---------------------------------------------------

aseball Club's rustiness shows in losses
JEFFREY BERGMAN
,n Sports Editor
looks like the bad weather has done 
L damage to the baseball club than 
ny people thought. The lack of practice 
1 game experience showed as the Tartans 
e trounced last week by Duquesne 12-2 
ICCAC South 16-6.
game against Duquesne started 
|oothly last Monday as senior center 
Ler Mike Seel led off with a line drive 
ne run over the left center field fence, 
ter that, things went all downhill. Errors 
men on base, getting caught stealing 
vvn eight runs, and wild throws were 
ne of the many missed cues CMU suffered
Jough.
oop classic \omes to CMU
amegie-Mellon University, in cooperawith the Western Pennsylvania Heart 
riation, has announced plans for the 
it annual Camgie-Mellon Big Heart 
Iketball Gassic. All proceeds of the basIball tournament, slated for December 2-3, 
3, will benefit the Western Pennsylvania 
art Association.11m very excited about the tournament, 
CMU Athletic Director James E. nner. I feel this is the beginning of a lig-lasting relationship thats mutually jiefirial to Camegie-Mellon and the Heart ciation. It is an honor to have an organ- luon such as the Western Pennsylvania art Association co-sponsor our first liual basketball classic.
[Jim Flannery, executive vice president of 
Western Pennsylvania Heart Associa|n, is also optimistic.[Were delighted to be a part of Camegiefllons holiday basketball tournament,
1 Flannery. I think it will be a great way 
[local fans to support CMU and the Heart 
ition. We commend CMUs athletic 
ent and administration for their 
sity in thinking of us to co-sponsor 
tournament.
: 1983 field includes Buffalo State Uniaty, Oberlin College, Westminster Col-and Camegie-Mellon. Westminster will 
; Buffalo State at 7 p.m. Friday evening 
Camegie-Mellon hosts Oberlin at 9. 
ays consolation match will begin at 1 
the championship game tippingSenior southpaw Eld Novak started and 
pitched three good innings striking out four 
and letting up three runs of which two were 
unearned, He was relieved by Erik Muennichow in the fourth. Muennichows curve 
ball was working effectively but he had trou
ble locating the fastball which led to many 
untimely walks. He let up nine runs in his 
three innings but errors by second baseman 
Jeff Bergman, left fielder Bill Yankovich, 
and shortstop Mike Homer didnt help 
either.
The Tartans also had to fight the weather 
which wreaked havoc with the team. Many 
players thought there wasnt a game which 
left CMU with a depleted squad. Also, the 
many Alberta Clippers left visibility to a
minimum and eventually caused the cancel
lation of the scheduled second game.
In the nine inning batde against CCAC 
South, CMU pitching looked quite rusty. 
The combination of Bob Flaherty, Nick Lis
ton, Dan Burgundy, and Dan Woodside got 
roughed up pretty badly against a tough 
squad. Flaherty gave up three runs in three 
innings mainly on a home run, triple, dou
ble, and well executed steal of home. Liston 
looked good one inning but sufferedcpntrol 
problems later. Burgundy and Woodside 
were just victims of lack of work.
The CMU bats were alive for five innings 
but quieted afterwards. Tim Nagy knocked 
in two runs one in the second on a force out 
and another in the fourth with a double
following Andy Rossis double. Right 
fielder Bill Yankovich tripled twice and 
walked once scoring two runs. Ron 
Faulkner also had an RBI single.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 R 
CMU 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 
Duq. 0 0 3 2 6 1 x 12
Novak, Muennichow (4) and Nagy 
Hr-Mike Seel (1), Bob Kiebler (1)
123456789R 
CCAC 0 2 1 04 5 1^4J6_
CMU 0302100006
Flaherty, Liston (4), Burgundy (6), Wood
side (9) and Litde, Theg (9)
photo by John Sulwell
The CMU mens tennis squad had the luxury of having their match with Allegheny last Saturday being filmed for Pittsburghs new cable 
network HSE.
All-School b-ball announced
The All-School team for IM majors bas
ketball was announced last week. Making 
the squad were Ed pinhead Novak from 
N.T. Express, Dave Miklasevich of Run
ning Rebels, Ivan Juzang of die Sixers, 
Roger Robel from the Hoyas, and Eric 
Thompson from Supa Stars. The MVP of 
the league was Brad Huwar of the cham
pion Beta-A squad.
The breath-taking fencing tournament 
took place recently with the team of Mike 
Cramer, Luke Tiemer, and Rob Woodb iry 
taking the trophy. In individual competi
tion, Ethan Rvman, Chris Boal, and Alan 
Whitfield were first, second, and third 
respectively in the mens individual class
while Melanye Finister took first in the 
womens foil. Anne Altieri and Terri 
Glueck finished behind her.
The entire softball schedule will be 
revised and a new play off schedule will be 
developed. So, pay close attention to the 
Tartan and stop by the IM office for further 
information.
Also there will be one final playoff for the 
co-rec badmitton title. The teams involved 
should check the IM bulletin board for date 
and time.
Dont forget the track meet will be held 
Thursday, April 28 at 4:30 on the CMU 
track. Get your teams organized now!
photo by Sirvr Winawi
.on mw. second from the left was named MVP of the major, IM .division.
4/26 vs. San Francisco 
4/27 vs. San Francisco 4/29 vs. San Diego 
4/30 vs. San Diego
5/1 . vs.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanApril 26, 1983
Current stock market rally is analyzed
By LEE SHEPARDTartan Staffwriter
Is the current stock market rally the begin
ning of a major bull market or the prelude 
to a major downturn? The answer, says Dr. 
Henry Galliot, Senior Vice President of Fed
erated Research, depends on whether or not 
the inflation rate will remain low in the 
long run. If inflation stays low, he expects to 
see the stock market rise to unprecedented 
levels such as 4000-5000 on the Dow Jones 
Industrial Average, in the next decade or so.
Dr. Galliot feels that long term trends are 
most important in forecasting movements 
in the stock market; and the best indicator, 
he belives is the long term inflation rate 
which has a direct effect on interest rates. In 
periods of high inflation, such as what we 
have experienced in the past 3-4 years, real 
assets such as gold, silver, and real estate are 
all extremely attractive investments while 
financial assets such as stocks and bonds are 
very poor investments. Likewise, in periods 
of low inflation, such as the period between 
the late 1940s and the early 1960s, stocks 
and bonds appreciate greatly in value while 
real assets increase only slightly. Dr. Galliot 
showed graphs which indicated that the 
long term trend in inflation is downward.
Galliot believes that the current stock 
market rally which began in August, 1982, is 
either the beginning of a major bull market 
or the last upward leg of the bull market 
which began in 1974. He feels that if the 
current infltion rate, which is down to 
around 5%, does not rise in the future, then 
we are indeed at the beginning of a long 
term stock market rise; if inflation rises 
again, we could experience a large drop in 
stock prices.
Dr. Galliot is not particularly worried 
about the huge governmental deficits. The 
budget deficit, Galliot said, has no correla
tion with inflation: it is how the deficit is 
financed. If the the deficit is monetarized, 
i.e., the government turns on the printing 
presses, high inflation will result.
The country with the highest deficit as a
percentage of GNP is Holland, where the 
deficit comprises 6.6% of the GNP and the 
Government sector is 60% of the entire econ
omy. Yet, Holland, which simply borrows 
from the public, has very low inflation but 
high real interest rates (nominal interest 
rates minus the inflation rate).
In comparison, the U.S. deficit is only
about 3% of the total GNP; however, the 
U.S. has had a history of financing the 
deficit by creating money out of thin air, 
especially during the Vietnam War. What 
actually happens is that the Federal Reserve, 
this countrys central bank, buys bonds from 
the U.S. Treasury, putting new' money into 
the economy that would not have gotten 
there otherwise. Galliot is looking at how
the Reagan administration will finance the 
huge deficits that are now occurring.
Dr. Galliot, a graduate of the CMU Math 
department, GSIA (where he also received 
his Ph.D. in Economics), made his remarks 
at a meeting of the Investment Club. His 
company manages the trust funds of 70% of 
all banks in the U.S. that have trust depart
ments, as well as 30 different mutual funds.
Talk explores abused rights
Avraham Shifrin, Executive Director of 
the Israel-based Research Center for Pri
sons, Psychoprisons and Forced-Labor Con
centration Camps of the U.S.S.R. will 
lecture in Pittsburgh on the brutal viola
tions of human rights being committed to 
this very day in the Soviet Union. His speech 
will be delivered at the Soldiers and Sailors 
Memorial Hall, 5th and Bigelow, Oakland, 
on Tuesday, May 24 at 8 p.m. (doors open at 
7 p.m.)
Shifrins lecture is being sponsored by the
Western Pennsylvania Committee for 
Human Rights in the Soviet Union. Tickets 
are available for $3.00 in advance or at the 
door on the night of the speech.
Bom in Minsk in 1923, Shifrin was 
inducted into the Red Army in 1941 and 
served heroically throughout the war. 
Wounded twice, he received a battlefield 
commission and was released from service as 
a major. After the war, he earned his law 
degree and became the Chief Legal Advisor 
in the Contract Division of the Ministry of
SPRING CARNIVAL GRINS: A face anyone could love.
photo by Steve Winawer
COMING SOON.
ft " 
ACE
Look for
iMOVIE
\l A I. X / I  I
in an
upcoming 
GOING issue
of your
collegenews
paper.
DONT MISS m
Defense in Moscow.
At the height of the anti-Jewish terror 
(The Doctors Plot) in 1953, Shifrin was 
arrested, accused of being a spy for America 
and Israel and sentenced to death. This sent
ence was later commuted to 25 years camp 
imprisonment. Released after ten years 
camp internment and four years internal 
exile, he became an advocate of Soviet Jews 
wishing to emigrate to Israel. In 1970 he 
emigrated himself and lives in Israel now.
Determined to alert the Free World to the 
continuing terror in which the Russian peo
ple live under their Communist rulers, Shi
frin, and other former prisoners of the 
Gulag who now live in Israel, formed the 
Research Center. Through underground 
channels, they gather, compile and publish 
current information on the Soviet prisoncamp system which has existed since 1917.
Mr. Shifrin lectures widely and has 
authored several books. In 1973 he gave tes
timony on U.S.S.R Labor Camps before a 
subcommittee of the Committee On The
Judiciary of the United States Senate. His 
latest work, The First Guidebook to Pri
sons and Concentration Camps of The 
Soviet Union is a shocking expose of over 
2,000 penal institutions in Russia. It has 
recently been given the Book of The Year 
award in Europe.
The lecture will feature Shifrins 30- 
minute film in color entitled Prisonland. 
This is the worlds only existing film docu
mentary on Soviet slave-labor. All sequences 
were taken by hidden cameras at great risk to 
courageous Russians.
Allegheny Womens Center
an out patient medical clinic ottering
* abortion counseling * free pregnancy tests
* personal c ounseling * birth control services
* gynecological care
362-2920 
Pregnancy Testing Center201 S. Craig Street (Oakland) 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
(412) 687-TEST
E ill be open daily lor pregnancy tests and (ounseling.
Womens 
Center
rlltftll f Medical Center East Building i.V' Penthouse Right (8th floor)Morth Whilliplri Qtrppi211 North Whittield Street Pittsburgh. PA 15206
BIG DISCOUNTS ON
Whol HEWITT wLHM PACKARD
Handheld computer (HP-75C) 795.00
93 95
CALCULATORS
Financial (HP-12C) 93.95 Scientific (HP-11C) 69.95 Scientific (HP-10C) 54 95 Scientific (HP-ISC) 93 95 Financial/business (HP-16C)Programmable print (HP-97) 595.00Programmable (HP-41C) 14.99Pro9**rofnai>Mi (HP-41CV) 213.95
CaN About Free Serie 40 Modules!
OPTIONS
Optical Wand 94.95Printer for 41CV 2*3 95Card reader for 41CV/C 140.95. thermal pr/plot 349.95Video interface 179.95IL interface mod 94.95Digital cassette drive 349.95Ex (une mem mod 59.95Ex mem module 59-95Time module 59.95
for 41C/CV 19.95Quad mem module lor 41C 59.95
PUCES ARE FOR PRE PAID MAIL AMO PHONE ORDERS ONLY SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE MONEY ORDERS CHECKS (ALLOW 2 WEEKS TO CLEAR) ACCEPTED VISA MASTERCARD ACCEPTED ONLY ON SOME ITEMS NO COO'S IN PA ADO SALES tax U 5 MINIMUM SHIP PtNG CALL FOR EXACT CHARGES ALL MERCHANDISE SUBJECT TO AVAILABILITY WARRANTIES HANpdIp av arontr-TnwIw
WE'LL MEET ON BEAT ANY ADVERTISED PMCE ON THESE ON OTHER HP CALCULATORS
0
P.O. SOX 127M PITTSBURGH, PA 15241
CALL TOLL FREE 
PA: <00-222-8836 Interstate; 800-223-2896

---------------------------------------------------

\
r
X
V 
 *'I > p>
%4I.
ThelartMi.
1/l/e pttf /f all together.
^Tartan:- Skibo rooms 50,51,52. Editorial board meetings are on Mondays at 6:30 PM in Skibo room 11. All interested persons are invited to attend

---------------------------------------------------

Forbes Gallery
Sign-up for 1983-84 
Forbes Gallery shows on 
Thursday, April 28 at the 
gallery, 5:30-6:30 p.m.
! Minimum three peo
ple per show 
I Preferred reserva
tions for seniors 
I Upperclass students 
from all departments 
are eligible for shows
Funded by Student Senate
Starless and 
Bible Black
In the Wake 
of Poseidon
CMUs literary magazine, featuring original student poetry, fiction, 
md artwork. Available at the Bookstore and Skibo Info Desk. Price 
$.1.00.
Funded by Student Senate
AHHHH. . .
It's the cream of the Crimson!
All the original albums. . .
All with the original artwork. . .
ALL RE MASTERED HALF-SPEED 
AND ON SALE NOW THROUGH MAY
ucMft  un UPEJUtmh
Lark's Tonge 
In Aspic
SENIORS
Packets containing 
information on 
commencement 
including 5 announce
ments will be available in 
your department offices after APRIL 27.
Public Relations Office 
Baker Hall 160
Additional announcements are available for sale now in the 
Bookstore for $2.00 for a package of 5.

---------------------------------------------------

Funnies.
oe Freshmanby Mark Levine
ttrsicAUifuwr
by Diane Thodos
Loot, & sov/cef
cNVNO-vVec
oindexter
NAHx UPCdCrridP rtPV/
IBSIU6MTMY IM PENCIL !WDY ftftlMt PHVi(CS
BcAWt_________
NO-1 WMf EEAuy BbV IT... THAT'S WHV x BBOMSht My EAfilTS 
u P*X_______________
OOMT TEIL
Wi youEuwfc
TWat pencil 
B0K6S Vo 
op luck:
rossword
ACROSS 1 In music, highI Part erf a door frame 8 Malay carwx-12 Expire IS Sandarac treeII Hindu queen15 lair16 Weather instrument 18 Obstac les20 Prrxmls21 C/>m|Kss |)t.22 Obscure23 Doctrines
27 Skill29 Took ;i wold medal ,10 Simpleton SI SAs neighbor 12 Rover. lot one
DOWN1 Says further2 Hold on property3 Occupant4 Pokes5 Macaw6 Border7 Besom8 Hold chair of authority9 Rodent
10 Number11 Ventilate 17 Pronoun19 Earth goddess 22 Sjjeck21 Yes, in Madrid25 Majority26 Portico27 One of>|XHed
35 Exist54  what!55 Name57 Part of a circle: Abbr. 38 (reek letter 59 Arrow |x>ison10 Gave Icxxl to11 Artie k-12 Bordet on 44 Omens17 Declaration 51 Be indi|XMed 32 1/ngth of a step53 I an color54 African antclofx-55 Matured 'jfi Pierce57 Organ of hearing
28 Shower29 Tinv30 A Gershwin32 Having folds33 Succor36 Tellurium symbol37 Emulate Dick Tracy38 Ocrupv40 Smokes
41 Three-toed sloth43 Exist44 Blunt end45 Columbus caravel46 Calumniate47 Resort of son48 Label49 High card>0 New Deal agcv.

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie-Mellon University 
Presidents Distinguished
Lecture Series
JEROME LOWENTHAL PIANIST
Composers in homage to one another
Evening Lecture/Recital
every possible nitch in the piano repertory.
His program will include works by Brahms, Chopin, Debussy, Ro( 
berg, Beethoven, Ravel, and Strauss.
Mr. Lowenthal visited the CMU campus last summer as part of 
music program and his delightful commentary and impressive piani 
won him an enthusiastic following.
Weve invited Mr. Lowenthal to return for a second visit to entertain i 
whole campus community.
Skibo Ballroom 
8:00 P.M. 
Sunday, May 1, 1983
Jerome Lowenthal has been described by critics as being at home
(Open to the public.)

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
55OO or more each school year. Flexible 
Monthly payment for placing posters on 
pus. Bonus based on results. Prizes awarded 
(U. 800-526-0883.
jobs. Temporary labor jobs available, /long term. All areas. Students/teachers 
ne. Car/phone necessary. Must be at least 
all for appointment. Manpower Temporary 
[ices. 471-8912.
er Survival or will I see you in September? 
ay, May 1, 6:30 - 8:30 p.m. Meg durkin will 
L Shadyside College Fellowship, Shadyside 
byterian Church. Comer of Amberson and 
Itininster.
Tutor/translator experienced graduate 
blytechnical Institute of Leningrad. Lessons 
L apartment or on campus. Call 881-6843.
dvside Summer Sublet Between Walnut and 
Great location. 2/3 BR furnished. 
J/month negotiable. Call 687-8323.
er jobs. Temporary typing, secretarial and 
I processing available. Short/long term. All 
L Students/teachers welcome. Must be at 
j 18. Call for appointment. Manpower TemSen ices. 391-7034.
ale roommates needed immediately to share 
[ltiful modem two bedroom apartment with 
I female. New carpet and paint; nice security 
ling; near bus; storage, laundry in basement; 
cks to grocery; Highland Ave  Shadyside; 
|iinutes to CMU; clean kitchen and bath; $123 
i utilities. 681-0598 Liz or Sarah.
tier Employment Royal Presdge has 
Imer work available in many areas of the 
[.Twelve weeks, guaranteed. $240 a week and 
For more information, come to Skibo Room 
fc'eds. April 27,1983,10 a.m., 12 noon, 2 p.m.,
jm apt. for rent, kitchen and bath w/w 
eting, A-C, available June, July, Aug., 
|.00/mo. utilities included. 683-3587, 622- 
^(day and eve.) Ivy, Shadyside.
type term papers, dissertations, letters, 
nes, manuscripts, and so forth. Reasonable 
. Call Shirley before 9 p.m. 521-0534.
es Secretarial Service. Resumes, academic, 
ness, and personal typing. 464-1618.
! apartments for September now. Studios 
I bedroom. Walking distance to university. 
|5792 and 621-2655.
ale Roommate Needed preferably profes, to share large 3-bedroom house in S. Oak| neighborhood. Nice old house, backyard.
} mo.+ Call 621-7789
Used Textbooks. Get immediate cash 
lour used textbooks. Call 687-5371 or come to 
[Ellsworth Ave. #201
ner Sublet. Bayard St. efficiency; furnished, 
pute walk from CMU. $250 mo. includes 
Mtilities. Available Mav 1 thru August 31. (961.
,^Jien  eam extra money in your spare time.
|me an AVON representative. Call NOW.
1556.
Army Caps with Red Star. Green or 
Sizes 6V, 7, 7'4, 8c IS. 100% cotton. $7.50 to 
'Caps, 1050 Boyce Road. Pgh, PA 15241.
|mer rental furnished fitted home. Edgewood 
[nt 'Square. Easy campus commute $550.
Pregnant?
And you didn't 
mean to be?
a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 621-1988
Flying Fingers. Word processing and typing. Stu
dent/academic rates. 241-1338.
Typing at home by very qualified typist. Reaso
nable prices. Call Sandy, 521-3139.
The Summer Sublet in Shadyside. 2 bedroom, 
living room, dining room, kitchen, etc. Call 681- 
9853 for more information.
events
Stone receives ASP A award
The Student Senate meets every Tuesday night at 
7 p.m. in the Wherrett Room. Students are 
invited to come and address the senate during 
audience participation.
President Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 and 5 p.m., in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Monday, May 2. Stu
dents who wish to meet with the president should 
telephone his office, 578-2200, to set up an 
appointment.
Academic Bag Ladies meet over lunch, Thurs
days, noon until 1 p.m. at the Lutheran Univer
sity Center, 4515 Forbes Avenue, Oakland. Info: 
682-6886.
John P. Crecine, Lean of the College of Humani
ties and Social Sciences, will hold open office 
hours for students each Tuesday, 1:30 to 3:30 
p.m., BH 260.
general
Volunteers are needed to help nine-year-old Jodi 
Garda with her fight to walk again. Jodi was. h 1 
with brain damage as a result of a kidney dise^ 
two years ago. Her program runs six days/wet :, 
twice/day from 1 to 3 p.m. or 6:30 to8:30 p.m. No 
experience is nee sar >. If you have love to give 
and time to share, please call 271-2191
clubs
CMU Bicycling Club meets every Wednesday at 8 
p.m., Skibo 13.
CMU Ballroom Dance Club Leam to dance, free 
lessons, every Friday 3 to 4:30 p.m., Thisde Hall 
(Gym). Beginners Welcome!
Informal Bible Discussion Group meets every 
Monday evening at 9 p.m., in Room 39 Skibo. It 
is non-denominational in nature, and deals with 
campus-related and practical issues directly from 
the Bible. Stop by, and feel free to bring a fiiend 
with you. If you want additional information, 
call 441-0819 and ask for John.
The Tartan production staff meets every Sunday 
afternoon in Room 52 Skibo. Come on down and 
join the fun!
Ready for finals?
Free personal tutoring 
available.
For more information contact 
Amy Ciric.
Monday-Thursday 7-10 p.m. in 
PH 126 A.
Last Week's Puzzle Answer
f p o c IjHHi Y  ^
* ' * 6 * e/ t e s me s  "
^71 ! 7v r
A A/ 6 e ft # A M
BY U d &
j T (t A c. r
 > / A T K 7/
j> o c 
Donald C. Stone, adjunct professor of 
public management in Camegie-Mellon 
Universitys School of Urban and Public 
Affairs, has received the American Society 
for Public Administrations (ASPA) annual 
award for professional writings and scho
larly research over a lifetime career.
The presentation took place at the associ
ations national conference in New York 
City on April 19. ASPA has a membership 
of 18,000 federal, state and local officials and 
university professors. Stone is the founding
dean of the University of Pittsburghs Grad
uate School of Public and International 
Affairs and currendy is dean-emeritus.
Most of his career has been spent in local, 
state and federal government. He served suc
cessively under Presidents Roosevelt, Tru
man and Eisenhower as assistant director of 
the U.S. Bureau of the Budget in chafge of 
administrative management of the govern
ment, and director of administration of the 
Economic Cooperation Administration 
(Marshall Plan) and Mutual Security 
Agency.
Minimum grade requirements 
for federal aid considered
(CPS) The government will soon force 
colleges to strip students with bad grades of 
their federal financial aid, if a congressional 
advisory committee gets its way. The 
National Commission on Student Finan
cial Assistance, created three years ago to 
draw up student aid bills for Congress, last 
week recommended a series of new academic 
rules that colleges would have to impose on 
aid recipients.
Colleges, the commission said, often 
dont take aid away from students who dont 
make satisfactory academic progress 
toward their degrees because of bad grades. 
Our records seem to point out that the 
standards are not monitored very closely, 
says commission spokeswoman Susan 
Turner.
The proposed new rules are an attempt 
to get [schools] to make it clear to students 
what the standards are, adds Tom 
Wolanin, an aide to commission member 
Rep. William Ford (D-Mi).
In January, 1982, the Government 
Accounting Office (GAO) estimated that as
many as 45% of the nation's college aid offi
ces may not monitor aid recipients grades at 
all. Among the 5800 transcripts the GAO 
surveyed in 1982, it found some students 
with grade point averages as low as . 11 still 
getting aid.
To assure that grade standards are 
observed, the commission wants Congress 
to require schools to publish minimum 
course, attendance and grade requirements 
for federal financial aid.
Colleges would also have to identity stu
dents as part- or full-time, set up provisions 
to account for dropped courses in comput
ing eligibility and to allow for grade 
appeals, and bar aid to students who dont 
get their degrees within a certain period of 
time, Wolanin explains. The schools would 
then have to submit a report to the U.S. 
Department of Education on each aid recip
ients academic progress, Turner says.
WTolanin expects Congress will put 
more flesh on those bones of the new grade 
rules over the next few years.
JimStuckert9s
Exxon
3500 Forbes Ave. 
Oakland 682-9805
Summer Specials
State Insp. $11.95 
Car Wash and Wax $2.36 
Tires as low as $35.95 
Size P165/80D13
Battaries as low as $44.95 
Size MFIII 74

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanApril 26, 1983
vopfip trd KopileFP de,Fs,, gt,b iwirb, trd nsbspi gltr,
continued from page 9
the Portland area who fit in. At the time we 
were sort of a local group. I heard from 
another friend of ours, once again this 
group called Pleasure, a guy named Michael 
Hepburn who was living in Seattle at the 
time, about Kenny. It just so happened that 
right when I called him Kenny was about to 
come into town to play a show. At the time 
Kenny was doing a lot of contract work for 
Barry White, the Spinners, Diane Carole 
and these types of groups. So he was coming 
to Portland so I auditioned him and really 
was very' pleased with the way he played. 
Weve been working togetherever since then
 four years ago.
Gorelick: Four big ones!
Tartan: Jeff, would you tell us something 
about your background and some of the 
people youve worked with in the past?
Lorber: I grew up in Philadelphia and 
went to music school at Berkley College of 
Music then moved out to the Portland area 
in about 1974.
Tartan: How long did you stay at 
Berkley?
Lorber: Just about a year and one half, 
although I lived in Boston for about three 
years and I played in a rock band there while 
studying privately with alot of different 
teachers. After I moved to Portland I started 
working with various people and became 
acquainted with Marlin and Bruce Carter 
and some of the guys in this group Pleasure. 
Shordy after that I put my group together 
and went from there.
Tartan: Looking at your discography, 
some of the people whom youve worked 
with are just some real jazz heavyweights. 
Chick Corea and Joe Farrell on SoftSpace, 
also with Joe Farrell and Freddie Hubbard 
on your Watersign album. Chick Corea on 
Wizard Island, and Stanley Clarke on Galaxian. How is it to play with these real 
tremendous jazz artists? How have you 
enjoyed the experience?
Lorber: You find that a lot of the people 
who are successful in the music business are 
also really nice people to deal with. Thats 
what I found working with these guys. It 
was just really a pleasure. On the latest 
record I have a couple pretty notable people 
that played on that. I just finished an album 
that will be out in about a month.
Tartan: Kenny, do you want to tell us some
thing about your influences as a musician, 
the type of music that you listen to when 
you were growing up?
Gorelick: I used to listen to Grover 
Washington, Ronny Laws, and Stanley 
Torrentine, those were really my first loves 
as far as saxophone players. I really didnt 
listen a lot to the bee-bop until I got to 
college and then I started listening to John 
Coultrain and Charley Parker and those 
type of players. I guess the first time I heard 
Grover play really inspired me to keep play
ing because I never heard a sax sound as 
good as that.
Tartan: Would you say that he is your idol 
player, or was then?
Gorelick: He was in high school. I really
dont have an idol now because Im just 
trying to establish myself and try to get my 
own sound. I admire the other the other sax 
players around these days, like Michael 
Breker and Ronnie Laws, I think theyre 
great. So I listen a lot to those guys too.
Lor ber: Well, I certainly know Where youre 
coming from. Our Pittsburgh audience had 
a opportunity to see Grover Washington 
here in December at the University of Pitts
burgh. They sponsor a national jazz 
seminar each year and Grover Washington 
was the headliner this year. He just put out a 
blistering performance  a real pleasure to 
listen to.
Tartan: Jeff, do you want to tell us what 
were your influences as a pianist and as a 
composer because you do an awful lot of 
composing, most of the tunes are written by 
yourself?
Lorber : Its hard to really say specifically, to 
narrow it down. I can definitely say that 
pianistically and jazz wise, Herbie was prob
ably my main influence. Also, Chick Corea 
and going back people like Redd Garland, 
who I like very much, Honis Silver, McCoy 
Tyler, Bill Evans  the usual people than 
any modem jazz pianist would classify as 
being important influences  Bud Pile. Ive 
studied a lot classically and formally and I 
think thats kind of helped give me some 
ideas structure-wise when it comes to writ
ing. Basically though, I think the main 
thing that has helped me with writing, is the 
fact that Ive really been writing for a very 
long time. Even when I was in high school I
was doing a lot of writing and I ha\en 
stopped. Just like playing, its something^ 
you have to just practice and develop
Tartan: How do you put one of your tutT 
together?
Lorber: I keep sketch books and I Vvrj 
down a lot of ideas and when I come up^ 
something that is really appealing, i 
pursue it and develop it into a song.Thg 
Ill do a demo and work at it from a prod^ 
tion standpoint and see what it needs 
Whether things need to be revised, it needs 
new melody, or a new section or whatever 
it has enough special ingredients it 
recorded, if not it gets put back into thepil
Tartan: You would say that you have ah. 
of songs in a can, so to speak?
Lorber: I have piles of them, but thats not 
say that any of them are really worth lister 
ing to.
Gorelick: Thats about as honest as you a 
get.
U2 at Fulton ^ 
reopening
continued from page 11 
tactics to prevent dancing and; three, brin 
adventurous acts like New Order, PiL, 
Certain Ratio, and Snakefinger to 
lethargic local audience whose reactioi 
toward the new music aesthetic ranges fri 
stubborn reluctance to outrigt 
antagonism. The Fulton could fit the bil
Hertz Comes to Oakland
Jim S tucker f s Exxon 
3500 Forbes Ave,
UgiFetl 2rbpodsFbop Onnip 
Fop bhe, Morbh on Mt 
Ubtpberu Thsp,dt, tb roor 
Erderu Mordt tb roor
tll ,ezi Ftp, 
Usf-FoagtFb bhposuh nsll ,ezi 
$k9.99 t dt 
srleaebid aelitui 
as,b pibspr bo pirberu ,btbeor
For advance reservations call
687-0635
Hours of operation 
M-F 8-5,Sat 8-3, Sun 8-Noon
For rberFsoer idg
Natural, Distinctive and Totally YOU! 
Ill
PRECISION 
HAIRCUT 
(ANY LENGTH)
$12.00
(WASH-CUT-BLOW STYLE) 
NO
APPOINTMENT
COLOR
PERMS FOR
ALL STYLES 
$25.00
_ fijewr
OHDiMH.
Mon , Tu.. Wed. 10-7 
Thurs., Fn. 10-9
Sat 9-6 687-5500
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
CalHOTL H*#*xrrrae
237 Atwood Strcrt 
Across the sireet from 
Oakland Pott Office
CAU S7S-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
UK2BO 40A

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Page 2Carnival SupplementApril 26, 1983
Carnival tunes: Shunts, Actual Size
By CHRISTOPHER ZURAWSKY
Tartan Staff uni ter
Spring Carnival enjoyed a wonderful Fri
day full of music consisting of The Shunts 
Actual Size, The Pousette-Dart Band and 
Renaissance. Four bands indeed.
A free and fun afternoon in 
the tent was initiated by those
Shunts. Basic, danceable, hard 
new wave filled with genuine vocal harmo
nies to boot. Video recordings were filmed 
during the show and more local dates are 
planned.
Actual Size followed and, I confess, my 
absence was present. However, I heard 
from a person who should know (a 
drummer namely) that Actual Size has a 
better than average rhythm section. They 
can be seen in their entirety this Saturday 
night, April 30, in the Skibo Ballroom.
That evening I attended the official 
Spring Carnival concert with a near zero 
degree of familiarity with the material of 
either the Pousette-Dart Band or that of 
Renaissance, the headlining performers. I 
was armed only with the scant knowledge 
that this show was our English Beat alterna
tive (depressing), and that both groups 
played old or, even worse, didnt play 
new music. Unfortunately, the latter was 
as true as the former.
The Pousette-Dart band seemed to work 
under the delusion that two haircuts, striped 
shirts, and tight, black leather pants make 
them a now-happening music ensemble. 
What they really are is a soft to medium rock 
band, a la Pure Prairie League, making an 
apparent, and rather embarassing, final 
effort for mass appeal.
From their verse, chorus, verse, chorus, 
lead, verse, chorus" song structures to their 
bass solo/drum solo crowd-rousing 
attempts, Pousette-Dart personified the typi
cal trite and trivial rock band. At the end of 
the first song, the lead singer jerked his gui
tar backwards, macho style, to emphasize 
the final beat. That was fine once, but he did 
it after the second, after the third song, and 
again and again until I laughed out loud. 
Late in the set, he exhibited his wonderful 
audience rapport with a heartfelt commiser
ation of how tough it is to find a job, even 
after college. His solution to this problem, 
which he related to us in a strangled growl, 
was  ... I dont wanna work. Im a bum! 
This declaration segued nicely into a whole 
song with the same winning, cliched rock n
roll message.
To be fair, Pousette-Dart would have fit 
nicely into the music world of six or seven 
years ago, but nowadays they just set listen
ers to shaking their heads.
I think the main reason Renaissance has 
Pousette-Dart preceed them in concert (they 
appeared on the same bill the last time 
Renaissance was in Pittsburgh) is the dis
similarity of the groups. Such a vast contrast 
in musical styles and abiliues made the 
audience extremely receptive and relieved 
when Renaissance finally took the stage.
Early in their performance, Renaissance 
bass player extrodinaire Jon Camp des
cribed the CMU gym as being quaint. 
Although the compliment was accom
panied by a note of sarcasm, the term aptly 
applied to a large portion of the groups 
repertoire.
Accentuated by a piano and synthesizers, 
a well and often-used acousdc guitar, and 
the bands most distinguishing character, 
Annie Haslam, who exhibited clear, ethe
real, and wide ranging vocals which were 
strong enough to combat the gymnasiums 
notoriously awful acoustics.
The presence of keyboards and the gener
ally superior ability of all of the members of 
the band allowed Renaissance to make an 
adequate transition from their early artrock/march beat endeavers to an exciting 
and faster paced type of musical output 
today. This transformation was easily dis
cerned when songs such as Flight, with its 
ascending and soaring instrumental breaks, 
and Missing Persons were performed. 
Both songs are from their latest album.
Mother Russia, one of the groups bet
ter known songs, elicited a sincere cheer 
from the audience. Consequendy, this rous
ing response relaxed Renaissance and set the 
concert on a more personal and less rigid 
plane. Earlier in the show, bassist Camp 
invited the fans to leave their seats and 
occupy the area in front of the stage and to 
my surprise a mass of bodies surged to the 
foreground. With this audience support 
Renaissance  and especially Annie Haslamexcelled.
Some wonderful lighting effects, most 
notably a green-from-nowhere glow during 
Northern Lights and various shimmers 
and shines reflecting from Annies silver 
gown, added to the pleasant sensual and 
aural atmosphere of the performance.
photo by John Stilweil 
Jamie Panzer, a junior designer, on 
guitar for Actual Size.
photo by John Stilwa
I Shawn reacts uniauelv to one of the booths.
Competition injuries
ream events disorganized
phoio h\ John Stmwll
Carnival delights kiddies of all ages.
y PAULINE KRAMER
irtan Features Editor
There are times when competition is 
jandoned by its original spirited intent 
id replaced by a disorganized, wild fervor. 
These times usually occur when die 
! guidelines of an event are too
supple to properly contain the 
competitors, allowing nervous 
anxiety to taint simple 
excitement.
Poor planning and choice of events in 
amivals team competition instigated an 
mosphere akin to an unsettled stupor, and 
suited in otherwise avoidable injuries, two 
which warranted a trip to Shadyside Hosital. One patient is presently negotiating 
le campus via crutches; the other visited a 
?urosurgeon yesterday for tests.
Spilled tears, bltxxl, and an abrupt finish 
- all because of a relay on the I.M. field, in 
self an innocuous proposition, until comnined with running, actually flying, down a 
stiff) hill, while trying very hard not to spill
a tiny trophy filled with water.
It could have been a fun day if the comp 
tition was limited to relatively hafflf1 
games like three-legged races and pyram# 
If one team hadnt mysteriously disaj 
ix*ared, necessitating a hurried replacemet 
call ... If the day had been better organic 
without 15 minute stalls between events 
people may'not have gotten hurt and u 
winner would have proven itself the m 
talented team in a more orthodox fashio 
than being the only group to show up 
the next day of the competition.
Excuses will surface: it wasnt ourM 
they ran so fast down the hill; Carnival is 
hectic and hard to organize everybody 
wasn't my fault.
Okay, maybe a single person
blamed, but with an enormous annual I 
duct ion like Spring Carnival, sotn^ 
should have taken the helm to prevent* 
a series of slip-ups, literally anti figurati'e 
Ixi's avoid an encore fXTformance 0 
inexcusable flop.

---------------------------------------------------

photo by John Stilwell
April 26, 1983Carnival SupplementPage 3
Ri,slb, er 
foobh, bii,
About 300 people, mostly Greeks, stood 
in the rain Saturday night in the stadium to 
see the awards ceremony.
In the booth competition, Spirit was first 
in the independent category, and SDC came 
in second. Delta Delta Delta placed first in 
the sorority booth competition, followed by 
Kappa Kappa Gamma. Delta Upsilon took 
first place in the fraternity booth competi
tions, with ZBT second and Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon third.
Kappa Sigma placed first in the T-shirt 
competition with Black Hole, designed 
by Mike Kird. ZBTs Mike Sussman was 
second with Prophecy.
The award for the team competition went 
to Uncle Hymies Deli by default. None of 
the other teams attended the second day of 
events due to numerous injuries from the 
relay.
A group of electrical engineers calling 
themselves, The Greeks won first place in 
the Tug-of-War. Dave Mramor was the 
winner erf the Scavenger Hunt, and Scott 
Bronner took first place in Spies, the off
shoot of last years Assassins game.
Regina Verteramo and Jay Yucht, repre
sentatives from Delta Upsilon, were winners 
of the Most Adventurous Costume 
contest.
Few eggs are tossed
It was a chilly dog day afternoon.
By MONICA SAFRIN
] Tartan Assistant Features Editor
Fridays Faculty Egg Toss became the 
Whoever Stops By Can Play Egg Toss as 
I the campus communitys lack of enthusi
asm for the event became apparent. The 1:00 
[p.m. starting time saw the defending chamIpoins, Professor Rodney Stephenson and 
graduate student Tony Rosato, both of 
|Mech Eng., joking about winning by
default.
Soon, however, the Carnival Committee 
representatives were able to round up other 
participants. The first place prize, a gift cer
tificate to the Panther Hollow Inn went to 
Jim Carifo and Paul Engler, Mechanical 
Engineering graduate students. Second 
place, a gift certificate to C.J. Barneys was 
awarded to Harry Orestein, junior, Math, 
and P. Bash, graduate student, Mech Eng.
This
I tradition. George Gees Make Believe Ballroom Orchestra swung to Ws swing.
photo by Steve Winawer
I PIKA claimed a first with its collapsible push handle.
photo by Clarke Simmons
Sigma Nu pusher educates her following as to her loyalty.
photo by John Stilwell

---------------------------------------------------

Spring Cai 
1983

---------------------------------------------------

PHOTO CREDITS
(clockwise from upper left) 
DDD Booth: Mike Sussman 
Merry-Go-Round: Scott Safier 
SAE Booth: John Stilwell 
Mr. Phil: John Stilwell 
Hoagie: John Stilwell 
DTD Booth: Mike Sussman 
Ride setting up: John Stilwell 
DU Booth: Raj Viswanathan 
PIKA celebrating: John Stilwell 
Supplement cover work: John Stilwell

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6Carnival SupplementApril 26, 1983
tucn epa kun vor sofKsav lp P,wU 2oopvrekov
By JEFFREY BERGMAN
Tartan Sports Editor
Confusion reigned supreme during 
the mens Sweepstakes final Saturday. Fact 
1: In the second heat of the finals, Pikas B 
buggy Bullit was surprisingly neck and 
neck with Betas A buggy Vixen even 
though Beta-A had a much better push team 
and had been rolling the best of all buggys 
during free rolls. Fact 2: Pikas A buggy 
Godzilla during the next heat finished a full 
6 seconds slower than Fridays leading dme 
with no real explanation given. Fact 3: 
When asking a Pika member what hap
pened to the A buggy he answered, Youll 
see in the next heat.
And see we did. Pikas B buggy Bullit, 
which crashed two years ago and didnt even 
run last year, broke the course record and 
finished in a record time of 2:09.0. The secret 
was that the Pika buggy chairman wasnt 
sure, going into Fridays qualification races, 
which buggy was faster, Bullit or Godzilla. 
After those races, Bill Sonny Shank, 
decided to switch his A push team to his B 
buggy. This answered the questions of why 
Pika-A was slow in the finals and why PikaB was so close to Beta-A; in fact too close.
The womens title went to the ladies of 
CIA who continued their domination over 
the rest of the field. Black Magic, which is 
the A buggy for both CIAs mens and 
womens teams, broke the record set by last 
years push team by a full two seconds, fin
ishing at 2:46.5. SDC, also pushing their 
number one buggy, finished second at 
2:50.0, and CIA-B finished third at 2:55.3.
Fridays qualification round turned out to 
be a veryr predictable one. In fact, the Compubookie was right on picking five out of 
the top six and even nailing the winning 
time to within 2 tenths erf a second.
The first heat matched perennial doormants SAE-C Limo, Pi Lam-C Blue Dol
phin, and Theta Xi-C Slow Death. It turned
out that Theta Xi-C was not slow enough 
thrashing its counter parts with a time of 
2:43.4. The other two came in at a speedy 
3:14.3 and 3:14.2 respectively.
Heat 2 showed first resemblence of any 
quality at Betas C buggy Echo faced CIA-C 
with Synergy. Using a better push team, the 
four wheeled, light green Beta-C thrashed 
QA-C in a fast 2:24.6. CIA finished behind 
in a time of 2:36.4 and KS-D 3495 which also 
happened to be in the race pulled up the rear 
in 2:50.5.Disqualifications was the theme in heat 3 
as both Scorpion, Sigma Nus C buggy and 
Streak, Phi Kap-B, both failed to meet 
requirements set down by Sweepstake rules.
The hill 5 pusher for SN-C, John 
Shepard, failed to grab the handle bar of the 
buggy as it crossed the finish line  this is 
illegal. With Phi-Kap B, Streak seemed to 
have the race won but failed its brake test, 
which every buggy is required to pass after 
the race is over. So, the winner of heat 3 
turned out to be Beta-D 8 to 5 with a time of 
2:45.3.
Heat 4 turned out to be the closest of the 
day with all three buggys finishing within 5 
seconds of each other. The race matched the 
champion buggy of three years ago White 
Lightning now Pika-D with an impoving 
TX-A squad and SAEs A buggy Intrepid. 
The favorite, Pika-D, showed it still had a 
little electricity left finishing strong at 2:30.5. 
Suprisingly, Theta Xi, using their B buggy 
Relayer edged SAE-A 2:33.0 to 2:32.1.
The first of the six qualifiers ran in heat 6 
as Presence. Betas B buggy ran away from a 
slow field and finished at a slow (for Beta) 
2:21.2. Some members attributed the time to 
lack of preparation due to the elimination of 
heat 4. Other members said the buggy had 
been raced too early in the day  the course 
wasnt fast enough. Anyway, Beta-B 
finished 25 seconds ahead of DTD-B Delta 
Queen and Phi Kap-C Shadow.
The next heat was dominated by CIA-B 
Dark Star. Using the great push team, 
CIA-B took a temporary third place 
finishing at a strong 2:25.5. Prophecy 
ZBT-B and Triskelian SDC-C barely made 
it to the finish line before the next heat
started.
Heat 8 was supposed to be the heat of the 
day according to the Compubookie as two 
buggies who made the top 6 last year Bandit 
Pika-C, last years A buggy, and ESP SN-B 
were matched together. It turned out to be a 
bam burner as both teams came down the 
stretch with less than two buggy lengths 
separating the two. SN-Bs great free roll 
held off Pika-Cs better back-hill pushers to 
win, but they won it in a very slow time of 
2:22.3. Bandit finished in a time of 2:24.0 
and Flying Butress, Fringes A
finished way back at 2:36.1.
Many people from Kappa Sig hoped he
9 would be the race that would give t 
fraternity its first top six qualifier in a whi 
This was because their A buggy ATF was( 
the starting line. Unfortunately, KS-Aaga 
disappointed and finished at 2:24.1 whi 
put them at the time fourth. Second pla 
was a battle between DTD-A Cyclone ad 
Lam-B Falcon. The three wheeled B bug 
came from behind in the stretch to sha 
Cyclone to win by five tenths of a secon
Heat 10 was similar to heat 9 because F 
Kaps A buggy Stiletto was in the sal 
position as KS-A. It faired better but n 
good enough coming in at 2:23.7 whichp 
them temporarily in third.' SDC 
Excalibur and DU-B Diffusion.
continued on pafl*
photo by John
CIAs women squad also broke a record in this years Sweepstakes finishing at 2:463. 
push team led by Debbie Kovacs above was the key factor in setting the record.
photo by John Stilw
Hill 5 pusher Bill Gens sprints the last leg of Pikas record breaking run during Saturdays finals. The three wheeled B buggy Bullet finished its individual heat in 2:09.0, eclipsing thee 
record set by CIAs Black Magic by a second and a half.

---------------------------------------------------

April 26, 1983Carnival SupplementPage 7
photo by John Stilwell
The brothers of Pi Kappa Alpha celebrate their second buggy victory in four years.
Collapsing handle bar 
migh/ights buggy races
Ltinued from page t>
Heat 11 was won hands down by Pika-B 
UJit but with their B push team. Their 
L was an awfully quick 2:13.3 with driver 
Lncie Elikan hitting five windows. SAE-B 
Lprised many with a 2:28.4 second place 
Le with their buggy Hustler.
The next heat was highlighted by the 
Lpearance of a buggy that many looked at 
L top favorite due to its great times in free 
|ll. Betas new A buggy Vixen 
appointed none by reaching 40 MPH in 
e chute and continuing that pace with the 
L of great pushers like Dave Richards on 
115 to finish at 2:12.0, seven seconds faster 
Ln their A buggy finished the year before, 
hnges B buggy Bumpzoid, came in second 
2:32.1 while KS-B was disqualified. 
fMany fans were excited about Heat 12 
kause the defending champion Sigma 
us Lemur and their premier driver Amy 
lorton were going to roll. Sure the 
[fending champs were fast and finished at 
13.2, second place at the time, but the 
Irprise of the day was the time turned in by 
K-B Vapor. Using their A buggy and A 
Jish team, the perennial second division 
embers finished at an unbelievable 2:21.6. 
lat put them in fifth and a shot at the top 
L Credit for Vapors dme has to be given to 
stronger push team containig track 
lembers. SDC-As Blue Haze was 
bqualified as hill 5 pusher Rich Neff failed 
I get his hand on the buggys handle bar as 
Icrosssed the finish line.
Only one team was of any importance in 
[at 13. That squad was CLA-A and their 
per champion buggy Black Magic. The 
bed-wondered push team was the key for 
le three year old buggy as they carried 
IA-A to a dme of 2:18.0. 
iHeat 14 was one that all buggy fans were 
king forward to. This was because Pikas 
|w buggy Godzilla was making its first 
lpearance. It also was the first appearance 
Ihe collapsable handle bar. After Godzilla 
its its free roll, the driver presses a button
I the buggy which causes the push bar to 
pp creating an aero-dynamic innovation, 
pis spectacle fascinated many but gave 
ia the number one dme going into 
iurdays finals. They nailed 6 windows 
Ida time of 2:11.9. Pi Lam-A Legend spun 
|in the chute and was awarded a re-roll 
lore the finals the next day. 
finalists decided by Fridays qualifiers
Pika-A Godzilla.............................2:11.9
Beta-A Vixen.......................... ..2:12 0
pgma Nu-A Lemur.....................2:13.2
[ika-B Bullit.................................2:13.3
NA-A Black Magic.......................2:18.0
6) Beta-B Presence...........................2:21.2
Saturday brought us a variable cloudy day 
which some thought might not encourage 
record breaking times. They were quite 
wrong.
The first set of races that day were the 
alumni races. The favorites? Who else the 
gung-ho men from Pika. This year they had 
an even bigger advantage using the quick 
White Lighting. The main challenge would 
probably come from Beta due to the fact that 
they were running Echo.
It turned out to be just that as the first Pika 
alumni team pushed their buggy to a win
ning time of 2:23.3 in the first heat. Beta 
raced in the third heat but fell short finish
ing at 2:25.0. Third place went to the other 
power house Sigma Nu in Scorpion at 
2:26.2.
The women were next, and the big quesion was whether a first heat placement 
would hurt the defending champions CLAA. That was answered right away as Black 
Magic was pushed to an all-dme record dme 
of 2:46.5. They combined an outstanding 
driver in Andrea Bertoli with an incredible 
push squad led by Debbie Kovacs, Gina 
Illig, and Lori Zud to eclipse the old mark of 
2:49.29. Another advantage CIA has over the 
rest of the field is that they are the only 
womens organizadon that uses a top notch 
buggy.
The rest of field now had a time to shoot 
at, and the question of whether anyone was 
in the same class as the defending champs 
would now be answered. In heat 2, SN-A 
with Scorpion and Pi Lams Legend gave it 
a shot, but their push teams were weak and 
neither one came close.
Heat 3  and 2 more challengers, the 
Tri-Delts pushing Betas Echo and CIA-B 
with Dark Star. In a close battle, CIA-B had 
the horses and pulled away from the TriDelts on the back hills to finish at 2:55.3 
while Echo closed in at 2:59.4.
CIAs last worry was in the fourth heat in 
the name of SDC. The. champs from two 
years ago, sufferred from a buggy that is old 
and faild to equal CIAs free roll time. Their 
push teams are comparable but Blue Haze is 
not in the same class as Black Magic and 
thusly SDC finished second with a dme of 
2:50.0.
The stage was now set for the mens final. 
Would CIA take advantage of the cooler 
weather to upset the rest? Could Lemur 
improve on last years dme with the help of 
the hockey team? Will Betas push team 
prove superior and give them their first dde 
since 1979? Will Pika succumb to the pres
sure of its alumni or will they rise above it 
and win as favorites?
photo by Scott Saner
Last years champs Sigma Nu could do no better than third, finishing at 2:11.0, two tenths of 
a second slower than last year.
Before any of this was to be decided, two 
buggys Pi Lams Legend and Pikas Bandit 
were to be given re-rolls. Pi Lam because of 
their crash in the chute and Pika because 
they protested that ESP pusher from Sigma 
Nu in heat 8, cut in front of Bullit after a 
push off and hindered Pikas performance. 
Pika-C took better advantage of the second 
chance by finishing at a fast 2:18.5. Pi Lam, 
however, did the opposite because they spun 
out again and in the same spot. Pikas 
enthusiastic performance not only increased 
their dme but also seemed to affect the rest of 
the teams. Everyone realized a fast time was 
going to win this years Sweepstakes.
Next up were the defending champs 
Sigma Nu against Betas B buggy Presence. 
The only way Beta was to come close to the 
defending champs was by means of a super
ior push team. However, once the gun went 
off and Lemur beat Presence by hill 2, you 
knew it was all over. Lemurs free roll wras 
one of the fastest of the day. It cleared six 
windows on hill three and was booking 
towards the finish. It crossed at 2:11.0, 21 
tenths of a second slower than last years 
winning dme. Beta crossd later at 2:20.4.
Next came probably the most controver
sial finals race in many years. The particicontinued on page 8
photo by John Stilwell
1 Ixmgh Betas A buggy finished second, ihey still broke the course record with a 2:10.0 
le Dave Richards anchored Vixens push team.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8Carnival SupplementApril 26, 1 983
This four-picture sequence shows the controversial crash of Beta-A and Pika-B durifls 
second heat of the mens finals. Beta argued that Pika cut them off in the chute. Acco 
these photos, the judges seemed to have been correct in deciding that neither buggy" 
fault and awarding each a re-roll in individual heats. Betas Vixen is on the right an 
Bullet is on the left.
BETA'U Fpt,h webh P2KA 
Fpitbi, atjop Forbpowip,
photo by John Stilwell
C JA blew away Pikas GodxUla in heat 3 of the finals but could only muster a fourth place 
finish.
continued from page 7
pants were Beta-A with Vixen vs Pika-B and 
Bullit. Most expected Beta to be ahead going 
in to the free roll mainly on the legs of Joe 
Orlowski and Paul Scarmazzi. But the 
crowd was shocked as Pika was ahead after 
hill 2. They held their lead till the monu
ments when driver Patd Carlisle pulled 
Vixen to the outside to move ahead by a half 
a buggy. Then as the two were moving 
through the chute, the sides of the two bug
gies collided leaving both buggies stopped 
dead in their tracks.
Beta blamed Pika and felt they should be 
disqualified for causing the accident. Pika 
recipricated the accusation. Either way, it 
seemed that Beta would suffer more because 
their top buggy would have to roll twice in 
th same day while Pikas top buggy' was 
upcoming, or at least we thought.
Chairman Sandy Ruscin now had a 
dilemma on her hands. She called the judges 
for their opinions. They then discovered 
that a Beta, Lee Ferkedc, had filmed the 
accident and decided to use his film as 
evidence.
After a long wait the decision was made. 
Neither team was at fault and both buggies 
were to be given a re-roll after the next heat 
but alone.
This set the stage for the most bizarre 
events in recent buggy history. The next 
heat had CIAs Black Magic vs. the no. 1 seed 
Pika and Godzilla, the batde of the push 
teams. The favorite seemed a certain victor 
and a shot at Lemurs time seemed a shoe-in. 
Then something went wrong. CIA des
troyed Pika up hills one and two and had a 
buggy and half lead. As the push bar went 
down, Godzilla was catching up. By the 
chute, Pika was right behind. But then CIA 
started to pull away through back hills. 
They finsihed three and a half seconds 
ahead of Pika with a time of 2:14.8. Pika 
rolled in at 2:18.2, 6.3 seconds less than Fri
days ume. Why the difference?
Unrealized to many, the push teams for 
Pikas two top buggies had been changed. 
The A push team had pushed Godzilla on 
Friday but was switched to Bullit on Satur
day and had pushed Pika-B against Beta-A
in the accident heat. The drivers though 
remained with their respective buggies. 
Mary Schumacher with Pika-A and Francie 
Elikan with Pika-B.
Next came the individual heats. Pika was 
first but most thought the dramatics would 
come when Beta rolled. Those 
changed rapidly when WRCT announcer 
Paul Doyle informed the crowd that Pika 
had gotten seven windows. As they 
approached the finish line, the tension 
mounted. When they crossed unofficially at 
2:09.4, the Pikas went beserk. Then the final 
time was announced 2:09.0 flat, a new 
course record.
It was now all up to Beta.
(Pikas arch rival) lined up from 
truck to the start line and cheered 
ously when Vixen was brought out to 
start line. The moment was as dramatic as 
the bottom of the ninth in the final game 
the World Series.
When the gun went off, the screaming 
started. Go Joe! Go Paul! After 
Scarmazzi push off, it was all-up to 
Patti Carlisle. It was no holding back now 
and the new Beta buggy zipped into 
chute. Coming up to hill 3, Vixen nailed 
only five windows. It was now up to the 
pushers. As Dave Richards, brought Beta-A 
to the finish line, the count down started. 
2:03, 2:04, 2:05. They crossed the finish line 
and quickly the official time was announced
2:10.0 and Pikas were now the champs for 
Sweepstakes 1983.
Pika-B Bullit...............................
Beta-A Vixen....................
Sigma Nu-A Lemur............
Cl A-A Black Magic....................
Pika-A Godzilla................................
Pika-C Bandit ..................................
The moods after the races were unexpect
edly not bitter. Ron Fowler, Sigma Nu 
buggy chairman commented on the 
team switch, Weve known for the last three 
weeks that their B buggy was faster. Betas 
chairman Don Savage just said, We tried 
our best, and theres nothing we can 
about it. Shank seemed to sum up the feel
ing of the Pikas winning the title with the 
statement, I love it.

---------------------------------------------------

%
Greek Sing: An Entertainment Special
Gladys Knight.
Two groups broke out of this mold to a 
small extent, Delta Delta Delta and Chi 
Omega. The Tri-Delts won first place with 
their selections from Starting Here, Starting 
Now, an obscure musical that provided 
some hot tunes which were matched by the 
high-kicking choreography.
Second place in the sororities category 
was won, not by Chi Omega, but by the 
group that did the best job at the dense 
pack choreography. Kappa Alpha Theta 
made a fortunate choice of music, combin
ing upbeat tunes from Pippin with colorful 
costumes and some lively dancing.
There were only three entries in the mixed 
category. The brothers and little sisters of 
Theta Xi performed selections from Joseph 
and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat. 
Delta Tau Delta did a rather slow-paced 
version of The Time Warp from The 
Rocky Horror Picture Show, but recovered 
with the solo number.
First place in the mixed category went, 
not surprisingly, to Pi Lambda Phi, which 
performed Impossible CMU Songs, a set 
of songs about CMU problems sung to pop
ular tunes. First place overall went to the 
Tri-Delts, with ZBT second.
Another group deserving mention was 
Kappa Sigma, whose Jumpin Jive really 
did jump, and, coming early in the evening, 
did a lot to wake the crowd up. And scoring 
high in the originality column had to be the 
brothers of Beta Theta Pi, who performed 
well-known songs from television land. The 
crowd enjoyed this enough to call them 
back for an encore, whereupon they gave a 
dramatic presentation of the Airco Techni
cal Institute commercial.
Perhaps the most unfortunate part of the 
evening was the fact that the admittedlycavemous Syria Mosque was only half-full. 
Greek Sing is a great way to raise money, 
and the Easter Seals Society is no doubt very 
grateful, but it is too bad that the campus 
could not get behind the effort more.
By JOHN CANTINE
Tartan Associate Entertainment Editor
If Greek Sing is here, can spring be far 
behind? Friday night at the Syria Mosque, 
the fraternities and sororities of CMU strut
ted their stuff, performing selections from 
musicals, well-known tunes, and original 
songs, with the $2.50-a-head admission 
going to benefit Easter Seals.
The groups were judged on such items as 
group tone, the difficulty of music, original
ity, and entertainment value. The judges 
were all local music instructors and 
choreographers.
When the smoke had cleared after Greek 
Swing on Saturday night, the brothers of 
Zeta Beta Tau came out on top in the frater
nity category. ZBT peiformed pieces from 
Gilbert and Sullivans Pirates of Penzance, 
and did a very good job with the tonguetwisting lyrics. They matched the fast-paced 
tune with lively choreography, filling the 
stage with brightly-colored pirates, bobbies, 
and the very model of a modem major 
general.
The decision must have been a tough one 
for the judges, for in second place were the 
brothers of Delta Upsilon. DUs perfor
mance of songs from 1776 was every bit as 
well choreographed as ZBTs Pirates, the 
costumes were perhaps better, and the pro
duction as a whole was probably the most 
Polished of the evening.
Another Broadway musical, Guys and 
Dolls, provided the music for the third place 
fraternity, Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Luck 
Wasnt quite enough of a lady to give them 
frst place, but SAE kept their production 
Moving, and featured one or two fine solos.
The sorority pieces showed less diversity 
toan the fraternities. Unlike the frats, who 
used electric guitars, trumpets, and drums, 
sororities used simple pianoaccompanirnent. rhe choreography was less imaginatlve, and relied on large groups of people 
taking the same movements at the same 
^rrie. like a multitude of Pips with no
Above: ZBT won first place in the fraternity competition with a colorful performance of 
The Pirates of Penzance. Photo by Rhoda Funk.
Below: The Tri-Delts took first place in sorority competition with Starting Here, Starting

---------------------------------------------------

Delta Upsilon brought colonialism lo stage with 1776.
PAY YOUR BILL ON TIME
(TCh LEARN YOUR LESSONS WELL)
By Heather Newton
I can see the board of trustees sitting yonder 
and theyre leaving students terror-struck 
Inflations down, but they havent noticed 
and they want twelve-hundred extra bucks.
Youd better pay tuition 
or forget about admission.
Going broke is a CMU tradition.
Sell your firstborn for that last dime
and if youre smart youll pay your bill on time.
Any good philanthropist worth his salt 
would be appalled at what weve gotta do.
Tuitions going up, sky high, all right, 
but wheres the money going to???
Not to pay professors.
Not to heat nor feed ya.
Andrew Carnegie where are you when we need ya?
Sell your firstborn for that last dime
and if youre smart youll pay your bill on time.
Chi Os Kathy Viaropulos pointed to Best Little
Guys and Dolls was SAE'
ROBOT-TOWN
(.ALLENTOWN BY BILLY JO
By Steve Lammert
Well were living here at CMU,
And we share a building with Sigma Nu 
Jt can really be a problem; still 
Wed rather be here 
Than up on the Hill.
Well the freshmen think that were all the same,
But theres a dozen different places and names.
Theres eleven now, cause ATO 
Cut down a tree;
They had to go.
And were living here at CMU,
But Oscar says our rents overdue,
And its getting very hard to pay ...
Well were waiting here in Robot-town 
For the education we never found 
For the promises that Cyert made 
Quality teaching 
Financial Aid

---------------------------------------------------

CYERTS QUEST
nus the Dolls
(THE IBMPOSSIBLE DREAM)
By Arthur Benjamin and Heather Newton
To dream the impossible dream, 
to fight for what students condemn 
prepare for the school of tomorrow, 
to run CMU-IBM.
To write the unwritable plan, 
the best of my brilliant career, 
to drive M.l.T. out of business, 
to make NEWSWEEK two times a year!
This is my quest, 
to stay in the black, 
and charge every freshman 
to learn how to hack.
They'll pay for the right 
without question or pause, 
and be willing to go into debt 
for a dubious cause.
And I know if Ill only be true,
and the game never stops,
that my plan and my system wont crash,
and my school will be TOPS.
And the world will be better for this, 
that one man with one measly Rolls-Royce, 
still strove with each goofballs tuition 
to make THE PROFESSIONAL CHOICE.
So well graduate in four or five years 
When IBM is all you will hear 
Cause they never taught us what was real 
Selling out students 
Making a deal
And were waiting here in Robot-town 
But tuition isnt going to go down 
And its getting very hard to pay ...
Evry student had a pretty good chance 
To study architecture, music or dance.
But something happened to the humanities 
They forced a personal computer on me.
And were living here at CMU 
But all of my assignments are due 
And there isnt even time to pray ...
And we wont be getting out in May ...
And were living here at CMU.
A.k.a. Jim Morris, DTDs Dr. Frankenfurter of Rocky Horror strutted his stuff.
photos by Rhoda Funk and John Stilwell 
Lyrics courtesy of Pi Lambda Phi
Thetas Mary DeLeon laid down the law dunng nppm seiecuons.

---------------------------------------------------

do sKro 
rbo bKKk Kp 
fsoo aollvosy...
...and its been a best 
seller for over 20 years. 
The story? It begins with 
your phone call and ends 
at your door with a hot, 
delicious pizza delivered 
in 30 minutes cr less
Dominos Pizza is critically 
acclaimed as the #1 
source for fast, free 
delivery Check us out.
Open for lunch
11 am - 2am Sun. - Thurs.
11 am -3 am Fri. & Sat.
Ft,b.. Fpii 
Dilewip 
681-1700
310 N. Craig St.
Our drivers carry less 
than $10.00.
Limited delivery area.
$.50 off any 
pizza
One coupon per pizza 
Expires: 3/31/83
Fast, Free Delivery
310 N. Craig St. 
Phone: 681-1700
$1.00 off any 16 
large pizza 
One coupon per pizza 
Expires: 3/31/83
Fast, Free Delivery
310 N. Craig St. 
Phone: 681-1700
