The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 80, Number 5, October 8, 1985.
Studentspace swallowed by Auxiliary
By KAREN WOODILLA
Tartan Staffwriter
Student organizations may end up trading 
two of their meeting rooms for the room now 
occupied by the University Dining Services 
(UDS) Validine Service when Auxiliary Ser
vices moves into Skibo.
Skibo student conference rooms 11 and 13 
may be appropriated for parking and other 
auxiliary services, which according to Dean 
of Student Affairs Braden Walter are tram
ping over each other in Warner Hall.
Currently, rooms 11, 12 and 13 are ap
propriated for student organization 
meetings. Under the new plan Auxiliary Ser
vices could gain 600 square feet of student 
space.
By ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Tartan Staffwriter
The Universitys core curriculum, 
spearheaded on the class of 1989, is turning 
into one of the most diversified and suc
cessful academic programs on campus.
Directed by W. Andrew Achenbaum, 
Associate Vice President for Academic Af
fairs and History Professor, the inter
disciplinary core curriculum provides 
students in all colleges at CMU with the op
portunity for growth and development in 
diversified fields.
Until such a time as CMU provides 
modern athletic facilities and a multi
purpose student union where people can
The Space Allocation Committee has 
agreed to the move of Parking, an escort 
waiting area, and an escort window in room
11 (640 sq. ft.). Room 13 (300 sq. ft.) would 
contain UDS services. Room 12 (640 sq. ft.) 
would become conference space. Tom 
Jugovic, Design and Constructions Coor
dinator for Summer Jobs and Estimator, pro
vided the above figures.
As far as renovations go, they will not be 
much, said Walters. The money will come 
from the University Budget. Of course, there 
are various breakdowns. This is as specific 
as I can get.
Walter said he was willing to consider 
Skibo because the expansion of student 
space will be picked up soon with the new
meet outside of class, one is tempted to 
hypothesize that fostering exchanges of ideas 
is the best way for us to break down the bar
riers that divide faculty and students and 
separate undergraduates into different col
leges, said Achenbaum.
Every freshman entering CMU this year 
was required to take a designated writing 
course such as Strategies for Writing, 
Reading Texts, Practice in Personal Repor
ting, Composing with Computers, Advanc
ed Exposition, or How Historians Think. 
Also included was a designated Computer 
Skills Workshop.
The prime objective of the core cur
riculum is to bring students together both
student complex.
There are a variety of options, but this one 
seemed feasible, he explained. Auxiliary 
Services wants to consolidate their operations 
with food services. They can be close by in 
Skibo.
There are over 100 student organizations 
who use space. We cant satisfy 
everyone...Student membership in organiza
tions fluctuates from year to year. Some are 
big and some are not so. If possible, we need 
to utilize space more efficiently, Walter said. 
At first glance there are always meetings 
in rooms 11, 12, and 13, but most of these 
groups have less than 30 members. Room 
27 is fine for small groups. We can adjust 
for larger groups.
intellectually and socially. If students sit in 
the same class with one another, then there 
is at least a possibility of their speaking with 
each other after that class, said Achenbaum.
The program will not only affect the new 
students. Courses will be established in the 
near future to similarly integrate the 
sophomores and juniors. One such course 
deals with the policy making, technological 
issues, and other aspects of the Nuclear Age. 
It will be group taught and will encourage 
and stimulate debate and conflicting view
points to promote new and varied thinking.
The curriculum will be constantly chang
ing, with new updates and revisions to the 
continued on page 3
Walter added that he didnt see why 
academic areas in Baker and Porter Halls 
and in Margaret Morrison couldnt be used 
as meeting rooms. Thought must be put in
to alternative meeting space. I have been 
traveling to many student unions on other 
campuses and even in the most modem 
facilities there is never enough space. This 
[office] is so cramped that it is a violation 
of student space, because there is little space 
to talk privately. That [Skibo] is a violation 
of student space. Frankly, we need to look 
for alternative space so we can seriously and 
respectfully deal with student needs here. 
The Students are stuck, and we are also.
In This Issue:
News
Crime Report..........................page 3
Features
Anorexia................................page 7
Entertainment
Saga.........................................page 9
Sports
Tartans undefeated..............page 15
Editorial................................page 20
Acme.....................................page 23
Achenbaum pushes core courses
CMU invests 
in Pirates
By A. E. GREEN
Tartan Staffwriter
CMU was recently named as one of a 
group of private and public investors that 
will buy the Pittsburgh Pirates for $22 
million.
In a campus-wide memo circulated last 
Friday, however, CMU President Richard M. 
Cyert said, (CMUs) involvement in no way 
draws funds from university resources.
The private-public partnerships an
nouncement of the purchase on Oct. 2 end
ed ten months of uncertainty over the future 
of the National League Baseball team.
We are committed to re-establishing the 
Pirates as a contender in the National 
League  a team that can earn the respect 
and support of this community, said Ryan 
Homes Chairman Malcolm Prine, who will 
become the new president and chief ex
ecutive of the Pirates.
In his memo to the campus community, 
Cyert said that CMU had been approached 
several months ago by a friend of the univer
sity who wished to invest in keeping the 
Pirates in Pittsburgh. Cyert had agreed to 
accept their gift to be invested in the Pirates 
with the understanding that the university 
would not make any investment with funds 
of its own and would assume no liabilities 
as a result of this gift.
Mayor Richard Caliguiri said the long 
awaited deal means that the Pirates will stay 
in Pittsburgh for at least the next five years.
pilUlU Ujr VIC *
A possible recruit confers with IBM representatives Nelson Barnes and Tim Holt at 
the Technical Opportunities Conference.
Students flock 
to annual tech 
conference
By KAREN GRAY
Tartan News Editor
Over 800 students scouted about for sum
mer and permanent employment at CMUs 
Technical Opportunities Conference(TOC).
The conference, which has grown in its 
five year existence to include representatives 
from more than forty companies, provided 
students from engineering, computer 
science, technical writing and other majors 
the chance to distribute resumes and talk in
formally with recruiters.
The CMU student branches of the Socie
ty of Women Engineers and The Institute 
of Electronic and Electrical Engineers spon
sored the two day conference, which began 
Wednesday evening with Automation: 
Tomorrows Technology Today The IBM 
Lexington, Kentucky Story, a lecture 
presented in Baker Halls Adamson Wing. 
The open-house style conference was held 
in the Skibo Ballroom from 11 a.m. to 4 
p.m. the following day.
Were tremendously impressed with CMU 
students, said Barry A. Curtis, a Standard 
Oil Company (SOHIO) representative. 
Theyre just as good as anyone from RIP 
or MIT, but theyre not biased against work
ing in the Midwest. SOHIO, a Clevelandbased company, has attended the TOC for 
three years.
Some students, however, found employcontinued on page 2

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanOctober 8, 1985
On-Campus Briefs
Frat Advisor moves 
to Annual Giving
Fraternity Advisor Jay Carson resigned 
from his post Oct. 1 to accept a position at 
CMUs Annual Giving Department.
I have greatly enjoyed working with 
members of the fraternities and sororities on 
this campus, stated Carson, who began his 
new job yesterday morning.
Canon was hired 14 months ago by the 
Department of Student Affairs to serve as an 
intermediary between CMUs Greek system 
and the administration. During his tenure, 
Carson had to contend with situations such 
as the fight between the former Zeta Beta 
Tau fraternity and the Korean Student 
Association and the fraternitys subsequent 
removal from campus.
Carson also helped the fraternities with 
their philanthropic efforts and campus 
oriented activities.
A replacement for Carsons former posi
tion has not been named, a spokesperson for 
the Student Affairs Office said.
Investment Group 
invites speakers
Experience by doing is the theme as 
members of CMUs Investment Group 
research aspects of investing, invite speakers 
and present reports at weekly meetings.
Since the groups recovery from the
graduation of most of its members last 
Spring, President Eric Witt, flanked by a 
new administration of elected officers, is op
timistic. We can learn a lot this year, he 
said.
Investment Group stock broker James Say 
spoke on dealing with a broker and fielded 
questions from members on Sept. 26. Up
coming speakers include Cleveland Federal 
Reserve Senior Vice President Harold Swart, 
on Oct. 17, and Ron Kiersarsky, Pittsburgh 
National Banks director of Personal Trust 
Investment, on Nov. 15. Both men are highly 
respected in their field and a large turnout 
is expected for their talks.
A Phi O announces 
Fall '85 pledges
Twenty-eight men and women pledged 
the Kappa Chapter of Alpha Phi Omega, 
CMUs national service fraternity, on Sept. 
26. They are: Marc Bonin, Forest Cavalier, 
Douglas Cool, Peter Corless, Matthew Da
ly, Richard Dargush, Kris De Old, Lori 
Dorn, Gary Dubas, Neil Epstein, Laura 
Galanbi, Jeffrey Genna, Paul Kaforey, Vicky 
Keston, Kevin Neel, Robert Radtke, Hiroshi 
Saito, Joseph Seeger, Michael Sheliga, 
Monica Slocum, Wayne Summers, Marla 
Tanimoto, James Torness, Robert Vander 
Noot, Kathleen Walsh, Paula Walsh and 
Maureen Yim. This semesters pledgemaster 
is Richard Moroney.
Dr. Richard J. Hoffman 
Orthodontist
461-0259
683-1210
Special Consideration 
Suite 552 
Medical Arts Building 
5 th and Atwood 
Oakland
ON CAMPUS TUESDAY OCTOBER 29
Ask your Placement Office for details on our 
upcoming campus visit, or see our ad in this 
paper next Tuesday, October 15 for additional 
information. LLNL is an equal opportunity 
employer, m/f/h. U.S. citizenship is required.
slty Of cafifrnia I veffTl0r,e
^wsSSuS^ff
I o55^0oeP*jCRiwe
SANE looks to 
Summit meeting
Dr. David Cortright, national executive 
director of The Committee for a Sane 
Nuclear Policy (SANE), will make a presen
tation Thursday evening, October 10, at 8 
p.m. The program will be held in CMUs 
Wherrett Room in Skibo Hall.
Cortrights appearance in Pittsburgh is 
part of a SANE campaign to make a major 
impact on the forthcoming summit meeting 
between President Reagan and Secretary 
Gorbachev.
SANE and a coalition of other national 
disarmament groups have the following 
goals for this campaign: (1) At a minimum, 
the two countries should uphold existing 
SALT and ABM treaties; (2) The U.S. 
should follow the Soviet lead in suspending 
tests of nuclear weapons and the two sides 
should agree to a comprehensive test ban 
treaty, and (3) the two sides should begin im
mediate negotiations for deep reductions in 
nuclear stockpiles, beginning with a 
minimum 30 percent in warheads and 
delivery systems.
Cortright, who received degrees from 
Notre Dame, New York University and the 
Union Graduate School of Antioch College,
is an expert in military issues and SovietAmerican relations. He is the author of 
Soldiers in Revolt, published by Doubleday 
and has written many articles for such 
publications as The Nation, Progressive, and 
The New York Times Magazine. He has 
directed SANE since 1977.
The program is sponsored by the United 
Campus Ministry of Pittsburgh in coopera
tion with the Pittsburgh Peace Institute, The 
Coalition to Prevent Nuclear War, the 
Thomas Merton Center, and the Pittsburgh 
Chapter of SANE.
Opportunities conference
continued from page 1
ment opportunities more elusive than they 
had hoped.
Theres no summer hire, said Colin Raf
ferty, a Junior in Applied Math, who like 
many undergraduates has begun preparing 
himself for the final rounds of senior year 
interviews a year in advance.
Rafferty said many of the companies
want to hear strict, rigid stuff-^hich 
courses have you had?, not What have you 
taught yourself? He added, however, that 
some recruiters were eager to see samples of 
written code and other work, whicch was a 
lot more reasonable.
Ed Wen, a senior in Mechanical 
Engineering, observed that sign-ups for in
terviews were filling up fast, but they seem 
to want mostly (electrical engineers).
THE NEW MUSIC OF IRELAND
They were eclectic, electric, passionate, personal, innovative, and powerful; 
and they earned the right to be considered among the vanguard of the acoustic
music.
Ronni Lundy, Louisville Times
...a 7-piece band that is widely popular in Ireland, drew larger and larger 
crowds as its set of original songs and imaginatively arranged traditional tunes 
went on; by the time the group finished, fans were dancing alongside the stage.
Jon Pareles, N.Y. Times
BLARNEY STONE RESTAURANT 
30 GRANT AVENUE, ETNA 
781-1666
Tickets: $10.00 Student Disc. w/I.D. Card: $7.50
Graduate Study in Engineering 
DARTMOUTH COLLEGE
Students with backgrounds in Engineering, Mathematics 
or the Physical Sciences are invited to apply for Masters and 
Doctoral programs. Fellowships covering full tuition and 
monthly stipend are available.
A faculty member will be on campus Monday, October 
21, 1985 from 9:00 - 4.30. Contact the Placement Office at 
578-2064 for further information and appointment.
J

---------------------------------------------------

October 8, 1985The TartanPage 3
Crime and Incident Report
Tuesday, September 24
(12:46)-A fire broke out in the dumpster behind Delta Upsilon and Beta Theta Pi 
Fraternity Houses.
Thursday, September 26
A fight occurred at Mudge House between a group of CMU students and a group 
of Pitt students during a social for Koreans from around this area.
Saturday, September 28
(2:15 AM) CMU students were getting out of a car, which was parked near the Hill 
dorms driveway and Margaret Morrison Street, when another car with two males in 
it pulled up, pointed a gun at the students and drove away. When the campus patrol 
passed by, the students were able to give a description of the car and the direction it 
went. The police found the car and the two people, who worked for a local pizza parlor, 
along with the weapon which turned out to be an air gun. The campus police sum
moned the Pittsburgh police who subsequently arressted the two pizza deliverers.
(4:23 AM)A person reported that he had seen furniture (a desk and a chair) being 
thrown out of a window of morewook Gardens-D tower. The campus police came and 
recovered both the desk and the chair from some bushes but were unable to find who 
did it.
Sunday, September 29
(12:30 AM)Two CMU students, a male and a female, were on the 1500 block of 
Forbes Avenue walking towards campus when they were approached by three males bet
ween the ages of 16 and 18. One of the attackers pulled on the girls jacket while another 
ripped the males student s shirt; then the male student was hit over the head with a 
bottle and the three assailants fled with a jacket and a wallet. All information has been 
turned over to the Pittsburgh cith robbery squad.
(1:22 AM)A Pitt football player assaulted a CMU couple on the corner of Roselawn 
Terrace and Margaret Morrison Street. The incident was reported to the campus police 
by a resident of Roselawn Terrace. The two CMU students have not pressed charges 
at this time.
Wednesday, October 2
(1:43 AM)The campus police picked up a student who stole a red information sign 
from the UCC building. The case has been referred to the Dean of Student Affairs, 
Braden Walter.
Thursday, October 3
(11:25 PM)Two students were harassing another student through the phone. The 
campus police traced the calls to the two students. Although the victim has the right 
to press criminal charges against the two and to bring the case before a magistrate, 
the victim has chosen to go through the Universitys internal judicial system instead; 
therefore, the students have been referred to Dean Walter.
The Computation Center and IBM invite you
to the
IBM 3083 OPEN HOUSE
119 University Computation Center 
October 15, 1985 
Noon to 5:00 p.m.
The 3083 is a large mainframe system that was granted to CMU by IBM. 
The Open House will include:
 Demonstrations:
 On-Line Hunt Library Card Catalog
 5080 CAD/CAM Graphics Workstation
 3270 PC/GX Graphics Workstation
 Application Software
 Tour of the 3083 Machine Room
 Documentation Display
 IBM and CMU Consultants to answer questions
 Refreshments
CFA suffers vandalism
By CAROLYN KELLY
Tartan Staffwriter
The College of Fine Arts was vandalized 
last Saturday night while a party was in pro
gress in the building.
Campus Police arrived on the scene short
ly after midnight to attend to a broken water 
pipe in the third floor mens room, located 
on the north side of the building. The 
broken pipe caused severe flooding on the 
second and third floors. Apparently, the 
water leaked through the ceiling and light 
fixtures on the mezzanine level.
Less than a half an hour later, Campus 
Police recieved another vandalism call from 
Morewood Gardens.
According to Director of Security Robert
Fadzen, person(s) unknown turned on th< 
firehose and left it runing in the elevator ir 
D-Tower. When the hose was discovered 
some damage had already occurred. Th 
water had flooded the elevator shaft and a: 
a result, the D-Tower elevator was turned of 
until Tuesday.
Later that morning, approximately a 
11:00 am, Sunday, a security officer, whil 
on routine patrol, discovered several broker 
windows on the fourth floor in CFA. Six win 
dow panels were broken and a fire ex 
tinguisher had been discharged throughou 
the senior art studio on the fourth floor.
Campus police are investigating all thret 
incidents, but have no suspects as of yet.
Core courses implemented
continued from page 1
courses offered. Achenbaums function is to 
see that students have the opportunity to 
take these courses, that there is a variety to 
be offered, initiate new ones, revise the status 
quo, and even see that there are a mixture 
of students in a particular classroom.
Both the faculty and the administration 
are very excited about the program and feel 
that it will truly help to create a more well 
rounded, diverse, and more learned com
munity on campus. Student response, accor 
ding to Achenbaum, has also been relative 
ly favorable.
The faculty and administration here or 
campus are really making the program. I 
is not just the administrators in Warne 
creating this, but over 300 people bandinj 
together with enthusiasm to create a social 
yet intellectual environment for its students, 
concluded Achenbaum.
 a
Pittsburgh Dance Council 
presents
Margie Gillis
Octll&12,8P.M.
Stephen Foster Theatre ' 
90 minutes of Oakland
unforgettable V Tickets; $ 1 o, $8, $6
power Mastercard/Visa
Phone Orders: (412) 355-0330 or 624-4101
$2 Student discount w/ad + Student ID 
Limit 1 coupon per customer
MORE Stats, Power! IMPROVED File Handling, Reporting
The Enhanced 
and Expanded 
Statistical Package for 
IBM PC/XT/ATs
SPSS/PC+, combined with 
SPSS/PC + Advanced Statistics' 
and SPSS/PC + Tables,' form THE 
most comprehensive statistical 
software available for a microcomputer 
For nearly 20 years, the name SPSS" 
has meant high quality mainframe 
software All three microproducts main
tain feature and language compatibility 
with the mainframe versions And 
SPSS/PC+ comes with everything 
you should expect from a market 
leader-a thorough, well-designed 
package with excellent documentation 
and customer support
SPSS/PC+_________
O Display manager & editor 
O File matching A merging
 File transfer with popular 
PC programs
O Selective installation & 
removal of procedures 
Wk Crosstabulation
 Descriptive statistics
 Multiple regression 
m A,\icm
 Plots & graphs
 Flexible data transformation
 Customized reports
SPSS/PC + ADVANCED STATISTICS
O MANCHA
 Factor analysis
 Cluster analysis
B Discriminant analysis 
K Loghnear modelling
SPSS/PC + TABLES
O Stub & banner tables 
D Multiple response data 
O Presentation quality 
tables and reports 
B Full range of percentaging 
and statistics options
at ve addeJ By KAKKRAE N
For more information, contact our 
Marketing Department at 
SPSS inc.444 N Michigan Avenue 
Chicago, IL 60611 
312/329-3500
IN EUROPE 
SPSS Europe BV 
PO Box 115 
4200 AC Gonnchem 
The Netherlands 
Phone +31183036711 
TWX 21019
VISA, MasterCard and American 
Express accepted
SPSS inc.PRODUCTIVITY RAISED TO THE HIGHEST POWER

---------------------------------------------------

We have opportunities 
at our northern and cen
tral New Jersey locations for 
individuals with PhD, MS or BS 
degrees in Electrical Engineering, 
Computer Science, Mathematics, Operations 
Research, Chemistry, Physics, or Human Factors Psychology.
If you want to write the technological harmonies that the future 
will play
Meet us on campus October 28
Alternatively, send your resume, detailing your education and 
experience to: Manager, Technical Employment, Bell Communica
tions Research, RRC, Department 127/3538/85, CN 1300, Piscataway, New Jersey 08854.
An equal opportunity employer
The Twenty-First Century Overture
SPii nc..Metusotcea mPaPspuO ^
Because the mind must meet the future
Where will time take us next?
To an information utopia where knowledge belongs to everyone? To 
an age when the computer becomes one with communications and 
thought travels everywhere, anywhere and at anytime? To a brave 
new world where electronic intuition solves the impossible 
problems that have followed us through history?
Getting to this future first is our mission.
Were Bell Communications Research (Bellcore), established as the 
central source for the research and technologies that will enable 
the Bell Operating Companies to meet the needs of the future.
We are working in areas that include software development; 
applied research; information systems; systems engineering; 
network planning services; and equipment assessment.
Our purpose is to know more, understand more, see 
more so that we can provide others with the expert 
advice they need in many different technical 
and scientific areas. Our mandate is 
to provide leading edge answers.
The Bell Operating Companies look to us for the software 
and technologies they 
need to operate 
efficiently.
We are a brain trust that 
imagines a new tomorrow.

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Female "pretend house" turns co-op, co-ed
By CHRISTY CASAMASSIMA
Tartan Features Editor
Once upon a time, a womans place was 
in the home. That explains why there was 
a make-believe house set up for female home 
economics majors at Carnegie-Tech in the 
1960s. The girls played house for a half 
semester and each was assigned a manage
ment role on a weekly basis. At that time, 
four of the five students living in the house 
were engaged to be married. Obviously the 
house offered practical housewife ex
perience that couldnt be obtained in a 
dorm. In addition, they learned the skills of 
entertaining by managing and hostessing 
formal dinners, teas, and luncheons.
Times have changed drastically over the 
past 18 years; the school of home economics 
is no longer in existence, neither is the Home 
Ec. House. The house is presently co-ed a 
long way from being an all-girl practice 
house.
You may have walked by the house (next 
to Donner Hall) and wondered what it is and 
who lives there. Today, its called Tech 
House, CMUs Christian co-op of eight 
students who live together like a family.
As a community, they take turns cooking 
dinnerusually a full-course meal, clean
ing, and maintaining the appearance of the
AFTER DINNER 
COFFEE
During their senior \eur, 
student* in household 
economics live in tamil' 
size groups tor six weeks 
in the home manage
ment house on the 
campus. Here they carry 
on the administration ot 
th; home under the di 
rection oi an instructor
house, which is over half a century old. They 
have no R.A., so they administer the 
household matters through weekly house 
meetings. In addition, they host a daily mor
ning prayer.
Although the house offers a number of 
religious activities, it is not a pious environ 
ment. Residents of Tech House are all 
students involved with campus life, religion
being a special part of their lives. Outsiders 
who frequent the house will notice an air 
of openness about the inhabitants, never a 
feeling of moral superiority. Tech House is 
particularly noted for their successful holi
day parties on Thanksgiving, Christmas, 
and St. Patricks day when the house is warm 
and alive with people.
Tech House was first developed as an ex
perimental housing project to integrate a 
mixture of students in a living environment 
that focused on cooperation. Clearly, it has 
been a large success. Most students feel that 
living in Tech House offers the advantages 
of living both on and off campus. Moreover, 
they feel that it is an educational experience 
because living with students from different 
disciplines helps them learn about things 
outside of their own. department.
Back in 1967, the students living in the 
Home Ec. House would never have dream
ed that their home would turn into a co-ed 
co-op. They would have been shocked at the 
idea of males and females living together in 
any sort of environment if they werent mar
ried. In fact, back then, females were re
quired to sign in male guests at the desk, and 
have them out before curfew.
Today, girls have more to look forward to 
than planning parties and managing week
ly grocery budgets. To most girls, settling for 
a life of a housewife is beyond imagination; 
they want more out of life than the ritual 
of cooking and cleaning.
The example of Tech House serves to il
lustrate the changing values in society: now 
students of all sexes and majors can live 
together and learn a lot from one another.
Master Plan discloses proposed changes
By STEPHEN VOLAN
Tartan Contributing Editor
The following Goals and Planning Prin
ciples emerged during the CRSSCMU 
planning sessions. They established a direc
tion for the planning process.
I. ACADEMIC/OPERATIONAL 
GOALS.
A. To project a CAMPUS IMAGE of:
 Quality
Innovation 
Vitality 
Warmth
B. To project CMU as a TOTAL 
UNIVERSITY not just a High Tech center
C. To enhance CMUs position as a 
MAfOR RESEARCH UNIVERSITY
When Andrew Carnegie presented his let
ter of intent to the mayor of Pittsburgh on
* November 15, 1900, he probably had no 
idea of how big the intstitution bearing his 
name would grow. Today, almost 85 years 
later, the parcel of lam' on which CamegieMellon University sits has grown several 
times larger than the original 32 acres on 
which the Carnegie Technical Schools first 
held classes.
But this growth in land came mainly 
because of a growth in the school itself. The 
university now sponsors more than double 
the number of full-time students than it did 
in the 1920s. Furthermore, its present na
tional prestige, besides the constant con
tribution of the College of Fine Arts, is due 
mainly to an almost exponential growth in 
scientific research conducted on campus.
The university is now at a crucial 
crossroads in its physical history. As CMU
has grown, so has Pittsburgh; the city has 
hemmed in the campus on all sides, so that 
there is no longer any land left to annex. 
Amidst the residential neighborhoods of 
Shadyside to the North and Squirrel Hill to 
the East, the untouchable public lands of 
Schenley Park to the South, and the 
Micrometropolis of Oakland and the 
University of Pittsburgh to the West, CMU 
has few options left for expansion.
The school can no longer afford to con
struct new buildings which are inefficient or 
ineffectiveor both in their use of space. 
Nor can it build structures without regard 
to their impacts on the rest of the campus, 
as happened during the building spree bet
ween 1954 and 1965, in which some of the 
more forgettable buildings (e.g.: Donner 
Hall, Scaife Hall, and especially Skibo) ap
peared. CMU must now concentrate on us
ing what land it has left to its best advantage.
Enter the Master Plan.
II. PHYSICAL PLANNING GOALS
A. To elevate the campus facilities to 
the LEVEL OF QUALITY of the students 
and faculty by rehabilitating facilities 
throughout the campus.
B. To implement the campus plan 
with a CAPITAL CAMPAIGN BUDGET of 
approximately $100,000,000 sup
plemented by yearly ongoing capital 
budgets.
The Master Plan is the spearhead for a 
5-year, $200 million fund drive which will 
be presented to the Board of Trustees this 
month for their approval. The University 
hopes to solicit endowments and contribu
tions from corporations and alumni to raise
this money.
The university commissioned CRS Sirrine, 
an architectural engineering firm based in 
Houston, Texas, to examine as an outside 
observer CMUs situation, and to draw up 
a list of proposals for improving the school. 
The result was presented to the Trustees last 
May.
A design team from the firm, led by the 
president of the firm, Paul Kennon, 
transformed the Highlander Room in Skibo 
into a giant architecture studio for the bet
ter part of a week in April. The team 
members met with CMU personnel, compil
ed a list of the manifold problems on the 
campus, broke down the list into basic pro
blem areas, and then went to work deter
mining how and where best to create new 
buildings for CMU. Their basic conclusions 
were as follows (all capitals theirs):
II.C. (The school should)consider this 
DEVELOPMENT PRIORITY:
1. Develop a focus for the quality of 
life on campus by creating a UNIVERSITY 
CENTER and RECREATION COMPLEX
2. Improve the existing spaces on 
campus and where possible consolidate 
departments consistent with appropriate use 
of existing facilities.
3. Restore SPATIAL ADEQUACY 
and IMPROVE QUALITY of the 
classrooms.
4. Provide additional PARKING.
3. Develop a new UNIVERSITY
THEATRE with capacity of approximately 
600 seats.
6. Provide FACULTY AMENITIES 
Meeting rooms, reading areas, etc.)
7. Provide improved opportunities 
for CONTINUING EDUCATION.
8. Provide new SCIENCE /ENGINEER 
ING facilities. 
Skibo, which was obsolete when it was 
built and which has had difficulty living up 
to the title of student union, is slated to be 
the beneficiary of the very next construction 
activity which CMU undertakes. The Master 
Plan calls for a new $15 million, 
100,000-square-foot Recreation Center to be 
built between Skibo and Tech Field. This 
new center would incorporate:
 6500 sq. ft. of office and meeting room 
space
 a 1200 sq. ft lobby
 almost 50,000 sq. ft. of recreational 
facilities, including a fitness center, a 
50-meter pool, a track and racquetball 
courts
 new tennis courts, placed on top of the 
whole building.
In addition, $8 million would be spent on 
rehabilitating the 90,000+ sq. ft. of the 
original Skibo building, as well as a 16,000 
sq. ft. southern expansion, to which the 
Bookstore and Post Office would be moved. 
According to Vice-President for Academic 
Affairs J. Patrick Crecine ground could be 
broken on the new facility within the next 
eighteen to twenty-four months, and thats 
what he, and the rest of the top-level ad
ministrators right up to President Cyert, are 
shooting for. Three fundamental obstacles 
remain: the Board of Trustees must approve 
it, money must be found for the project, and 
the actual building must be designed. In ad
dition, the question remains as to how to 
work around the building while it is being 
constructed.
Physical Plant retaliates with aquatic weapons
By NEAL W. JOHNSTON
Tartan Contributing Editor
Youre walking across campus on your 
way to class. Somewhere off to your left, you 
hear spitting and sputtering. It must be 
another student complaining about classes, 
you figure. Suddenly, you find youself dren
ched with water. You have just become 
another victim of  the Sprinkler System.
The SS is Physical Plants new anti
student, ground-to-air tactile weapon. 
Secretly installed last summer, many thought
the work was to replace water and sewage 
lines. Suspicions were aroused last week, 
though, when several students were found 
sprawled on the ground soaked with water.
We examined them and couldnt figure 
out the cause, said a local doctor. All ap
peared in good health. There is no reason 
for students to drop like wet noodles, he 
added.
City detectives were called to investigate. 
Their findings turned up to nothing. Our 
only due is that each victim was soaked with
water, stated one investigator. The mystery 
is how they got wet. It hasnt rained on any 
one day a student was found.
An insider from the Physical Plant, who 
wishes to remain anonymous, said, When 
we first started digging, we were told that 
this was part of a defense plan to protect the 
SEI against invading Russians. Only later 
did we learn the true, sinister purpose.
Another worker added: Oh, I knew all 
right. I was just working for the bucks. That
and my callouses. See, arent they butch? 
One speculation for the accidents is that 
athletes, especially Hacky-Sackers and 
Ultimate players, are tearing up the carefully 
tended greens. Could these senseless 
tragedies be Physical Plants retaliation? 
Could there be some deeper, darker secret? 
Maybe our trees and sidewalks do need 
water, and we students just get in the way 
Until a true motive is tound and those 
responsible brought to justice, be on your 
guard.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanOctober 8, 1985
Russell Stendali talks about his kidnapping
By LEE GODFREY
Tartan Staffwriter
Russell Stendall has had experiences that 
few are likely to repeat  a deathly one-onone bout with an overweight pig on an 
unstable airplane at 6000 feet, being kid
napped by Marxist guerrillas who later 
released him because he was creating low 
morale, shooting a guerrilla and later 
becoming friends with him. This Third 
World cowboy, a bush pilot in Columbia, 
opened his weekend series of talks Friday 
night with a few of his stories. The event was 
sponsored by area fellowships in the Adam
son Wing of Baker Hall.
Although Stendall focused mainly on his 
kidnapping experience the first night, he 
touched on wider political issues with it: 
80% of the cocaine trade in Columbia is 
controlled by the Marxistis since 1981, ac
cording to Stendall, when they seized it from 
mafia types. They use thirty cents on the 
dollar, he estimates roughly, of cocaine sales 
in the U.S., a billion dollar a month income, 
for financing the increasingly vicious guer
rillas who may topple Peru in a couple of 
years. Americas going to have to face its
. . . drug traffic, stresses Stendall because 
it is helping to fuel conflict in South and 
Central America.
Surprisingly, Stendall is not a pretentious 
man, outwardly marked by his adventures; 
he could easily melt into the CMU crowd. 
He has an almost schoolboy air to him that 
hints that perhaps anyone else might have 
bumbled yet harried courageously through 
these trying conflicts like he did.
His kidnapping experience, the basis for 
his book, Rescue the Captors, let him come 
to terms with his own limits and the conflicts 
the guerrillas had themselves. Having been 
captured in a well-calculated trap (it takes 
a couple of weeks to size you up), Stendall 
felt embitterred by the Marxists kidnapp
ing where they did not abuse him physical
ly but psychologically. The treatment, in
tended to break him, was supervised by an 
East German psychological warfare 
specialist. An example of one of the many 
games they played, they said they would 
never shoot him when awake, as if being 
especially nice to him, but only do it in his 
sleep. After a few mock pistol visits in the 
night, Stendall didnt sleep too well.
In time, Stendall realized the even more 
trying survival of the guerrillas themselves, 
a lifelong doom that they had little way to 
escape. Thirteen to thirty year olds, street 
urchins to university students had their antisocietal sentiments nurtured by the Marx
ists in training. Displaced from their home 
countries, among other guerrillas they did 
not know  no one could trust each other 
or be true to themselves becuase they 
feared contradicting the Marxist ideology 
and possibly getting themselves killed. All 
their lies, their actions, no matter how 
ruthless, were carried out like zombiemachines  because all their actions mark 
necessary evils to obtain the ultimate goal, 
the Marxists obtaining of absolute power. 
This mistrust kept everyone in line in the 
totalitarian sense. Thirty people that Sten
dall knew of were killed while captive. 
Sometimes guerrillas shot their leaders in the 
back during combat. An undesirable was 
sometimes shot in the stomach because of 
drug-related incidents, stealing, or slips of 
the tongue. Afterwards, he would lay dying 
in the sun for hours in front of his supposed 
comrades.
Stendall, having been lying up to this 
point, too, in hopes of release, broke a bar
rier that changed the course of the kidnap
ping to his advantage: he told one of the 
toughest guerrillas his true, unadultured 
feelings. Ironically, this act that might be 
considered stupid set off a chain of events 
that gradually broke down the troubled 
members of the unit. As the guerrillas were * 
developing a sense of trust among 
themselves, the leaders had to get rid of 
Stendall before their delicate system of 
necessary evils fell apart.
A year and a half later, is he up for 
another episode? I wouldnt volunteer to do 
it again.
Writing Department: 
Creative, Technical 
and Professional
By MITCHELL REICHGUT
Tartan Staffwriter
When someone thinks of a writer, they 
usually think of an old man in a reporters 
hat jabbering away on an outdated 
typewriter. It seems very unlikely to find so
meone like that wandering around at CMU. 
Could a person like that survive among 
computers, laser printers, and programm
ing languages? The answer is no. That type 
of writer is gone forever. But if you look at 
CMUs coursebook youll see three new kinds * 
of writers that not only survive at CMU, they 
thrive here.
The Creative Writing major is the most 
artistically oriented major of the three. 
Creative Writing majors are not people you 
are likely to find in the terminal room very 
often. They study poetry and fiction in what 
is mostly a workshop environment. Their 
assignments are criticized by their fellow 
students, and by a teacher, who is usually 
one of a group of published writers. Another 
thing that the Creative Writing program * 
centers around is the Visiting Writers Series. 
This series brings well known writers to CMU 
to discuss their own work as well as the work 
of the students. Creative Writing students, 
of course, submit to the Tartans Dossier sec
tion, and they often find opportunities for 
development of their skills outside of the 
classroom. Many Creative Writers work for 
The Oakland Review, the Carnegie-Mellon 
University Press, and the Three Rivers 
Poetry Journal. Another thing the program 
offers are The Adamson Awards for outstan- f , 
ding writers. Creative Writing winning 
students are presented with cash awards at 
the end of the year during a special 
ceremony. Students who graduate from 
Creative Writing often go on to graduate 
school, free-lance writing, publishing, 
advertising, and public relations careers.
The Technical Writing and Editing ma
jor is one that seems to have adopted the 
most to the high-tech world. Tech writing 
majors have a highly structured curriculum. 
The skills they develop will lead them into * 
professional careers such as writing and 
editing official documents, manuals, and 
public relations releases. This major is far 
less creative than the other two writing pro
grams and it offers the surest path into a 
high paying career after college. They are 
in a way, technical people with a flare for 
communication. Many graduates of this ma
jor have gone on to work for large and well 
known companies all over the country.
The Professional Writing major is more 
closely related to Creative Writing'than it is 
related to Technical Writing. In fact, many 
people double major in Professional and 
Creative Writing. Professional Writers have 
many of the same workshop courses that 
Creative Writers do, but they keep in the 
background some of the analytical skills and 
research skills that Technical Writers accontinued on page 7 .
Get to the answers faster.
With theTI'55'IL
What you need to tackle 
the higher mathematics of a 
science or engineering cur
riculum are more functions - 
more functions than a simple 
slide-rule calculator has.
Enter the TI'55-II, with 
112 powerful functions. You 
can work faster and more 
accurately with the TI-55-II, 
because its preprogrammed
to perform complex calculations - like definite integrals, 
linear regression and hyperholies - at the touch of a 
button. And it can also he 
programmed to do repetitive 
problems without re-entering 
the entire formula.
Included is the Calculator 
Decisiori'Making Sourcebook.
It makes the process of using
the TI-55-II even simpler, 
and shows you how to use all 
the power of the calculator.
Get to the answers faster. 
Let a TI-55-1I Jkjshow you how.
pilUj
rVjIC*iVIj
Creating useful products 
and services for you.

---------------------------------------------------

October 8, 1985The TartanPage 7
Anorexia and Bulimia: Potential life threats
By HELENE NEWBERG
Tartan Staffwriter
Mention anorexia these days, and chances 
are your conversation will continue with: I 
have a friend who... or Yeah, I knew so
meone who... It seems everyone you talk to 
has had to deal with someone plagued by 
an eating disorder.
However, far more common than anorexia 
is another eating diorder called bulimia, or, 
more familiarly, the binge-purge syndrome. 
Bulimia is a far easier secret to keep, as the 
physical apperarance of a bulimic doesnt 
alter as drastically or rapidly as the anorexic.
Dr. Roseanne Hickey, a counselor with the 
Student Counseling Service on campus, cites 
statistics that point to widespread eating 
disorders on college campuses. Of all 
college-aged women, 25 to 35% are affected 
by some eating disorder during their college 
years. The most common age group for 
eating disorders is women aged 13 to 22. 
Nine times as many women are affected than 
men, but the incidence in men is beginning 
to increase.
Separation from the family, the first real 
freedom of choice in eating and lifestyle, and 
pressure from society both contribute to 
anorexia or bulimia. Dr. Hickey characteriz
ed the person affected by an eating disorder 
as bright, ambitious, creative, and giving 
of time and talent. Often the best and most 
promising women on campus will succumb 
to the disorder as a means of release. Some 
girls will assume control of eating, perhaps 
giving themselves something to be in charge 
of; the typical anorexic or bulimic is used 
to being in charge, and managing this one 
element of their life can be enough of a 
release to keep them going. Almost like a 
hobby will release frustration, total control 
of eating habits will give a woman a brief 
respite from trying to fulfill her expectations 
of herself.
Society also pressures some of the women 
to possess a sexy, attractive physique. Often 
this is not the main reason for a womans 
disorder, but it is a pressure that affects near
ly every woman. Until the invention of the
Writing Department: 
Creative, Technical 
and Professional
continued from page 6
quire. Thus, the professional writing majors 
leave CMU, often with a few advertising and 
public relations internships behind them, to 
go on to careers in journalism, media, 
business, government, advertising, public 
relations, and education.
As you can see, the old man in the hat 
has traded in his outdated typewriter for a 
Mac, and proven that creative and ideaoriented people still have a place in this 
University.
Nautilus machines, men didnt have the 
pressure to have a good looking body, Dr. 
Hickey said. With an increase of this 
pressure on men, we are seeing a rise in the 
number of men affected by eating disorders.
If a person with an eating disorder con
tinues to live with it, he endangers his life 
more each day as imbalances in body 
chemistry grow and increase the chance for 
sudden death. Individuals have lived with 
bulimia for over 20 years, but their chances 
of having a sudden heart attack or kidney 
failure was increased dramatically.
A person with an eating disorder can get 
help through counseling. Dr. Hickey runs 
both group and individual therapy sessions 
at CMU. She also suggests programs at Pitt 
and highly recommends a program both for 
people who have eating disorders and also 
families and friends of people who are af
fected. St. Francis Hospital, in Pittsburgh, 
provides a session every second Monday 
which runs two hours. For the first hour, indiviuals who have eating disorders such as 
anorexia, gross overeating, and obesity sit in 
a circle in the middle of the room. Others, 
who are not affected by a disorderranging 
from persons interested in learning more to
friends and family of people with the 
disorderform a circle around the inner 
one and listen to the people talk about their 
problems. The second hour can be spent in 
group discussion or therapy. On Dr. Hickeys 
first visit, she was overwhelmed by the 
number of people there. She said that there 
were over one hundred people in the room. 
Anyone interested in this program should 
contact Ruth Kane at St. Francis Hospital 
for more information.
At CMU, Dr. Hickey runs several food 
awareness programs. Her programs do not 
focus on the disorders, but provide informa
tion on a wide variety of food related topics. 
Through these, she hopes to make initial 
contact with people who might be afraid to 
come for counseling otherwise. All counsel
ing session here on campus are strictly con
fidential, but Dr. Hickey still worries about 
people being afraid to come in for help. 
Our campus attracts the type of girl who 
is susceptible to eating disorders; the per
sonality type is not one that would readily 
admit to needing help, she says. We can 
help, and we want you to ask for help. Its 
not an easy problem to live with, and you 
arent alone, you arent the only person with
the problem. Dr. Hickey stresses that each 
individual brings her own individual case to 
the therapy. While the disorder may be the 
same, the causes and the solutions will be 
different for everyone.
The Counseling center is trying to 
schedule a conference featuring a clinician 
from Cornell University, Marlene BoskindWhite, co-author of a book entitled 
Bulimarexia. She has worked for 12 years 
with eating disorders, with much success to 
her credit.
Dr. Hickey expresses deep concern that 
many of the people affected by eating 
disorders dont come in to get help. She 
speaks frequently with friends of people af
fected by eating disorders, and wishes she 
could do more for those affected.
Those people who keep their eating 
disorders secret are engaging in a lifethreatening activity. Most women are not out 
to kill themselves by controlling their eating. 
Most are reaching for very high ideals, and 
in the process succumb to their disorder. If 
a student or staff member would prefer not 
to receive counseling on campus, the 
Counseling Center can also act as a referral 
service and still keep everything confidential.
Sprakpur mind
#1 IMNLn
It's more than just talk. At ROLM, your career is always a twoway dialogue. Right from the start, you have an immediate 
voice in important business communications projects, while 
flexible assignments broaden your professional experience.
Your voice makes a difference. In the future of a company 
that is standing on the threshold of the most exciting years in 
the history of telecommunications. Bringing full-feature 
desktop voice and data systemscomplete with PC capabilities, 
digital memory and moreto a market intense with 
competitive challenge.
Your ideas hold the answers. And ROLM is listening. Our phi
losophy, and all our products, continue to be unique expres
sions of the people who create them. It's hardly surprising 
coming from one of the first companies to make "Create a great 
place to work'' one of its founding goals. That's why you'll find 
ROLM attracts and motivates the brightest in the industry, and 
provides physical surroundings and benefits befitting that kind 
of quality.
After the hard work you've put into preparing for your career, 
ROLM wouldn't think of offering you any less.
Electrical Engineering St Computer Science Najors
On-CampusInterviews
October 30 & 31
Pre-Interview Presentation
October 29
Come talk about the opportunities at ROLM. 
Sign up with your Placement Office for an oncampus interview, and mark your calendar for 
our pre-interview presentation, or send your 
resume and letter of interest to Vicky 
Anderson, Engineering Recruitment, M/S 372, 
4900 Old Ironsides Drive, Santa Clara, CA 
95054. Equal Opportunity Employer.
Watch for our posters for details, or see your 
Placement Office for times and locations.
an IBM company
A great place to put your mind to work.

---------------------------------------------------

DUKETHE FUQUA SCHOOL OF BUSINESS
MBA
The Fuqua School of Business at Duke 
University offers one of the finest available 
opportunities for unsurpassed professional 
management training. We are interested in 
men and women who have proven aca
demic, leadership, and social abilities.
Michael Hostetler 
Director of Admissions
of the Fuqua School 
will be on campus
Wednesday, October 30
Appointment information may be obtained 
by contacting:
Office of Career Services 
and Placement
Your favorite 
Wendys, Arbys, 
Kentucky Fried Chicken, eta 
delivered to your dorm. 
Call
687-FOOD
5:00 pxm. to Midnite 7 Days a Week. 
Dorms/Fraternities/Sororities Only
Collegiate Delivery Services, Inc.
Wingfields Place and 3WS9&FM present
JWSSSfiM.... .
OCTOBER 19,1985 36 Pin
bterEtPilga CisuP ce oOP ucpePp cE SsM. sel NPriPj
The tastiest recipe for chicken wings in Pittsburgh- hungriest teams to eat them!-and the
Enter your recipe to win unique prizes, including 
a cash first place prize, the addition of the winning 
recipe to Wingfields regular dinner menu and a 
weekend at the Sheraton Hotel, Station Square.
Compete in the Wingfieids/3WS Wing-Off Hot 
Wings Eating Contest, October 19. See how many 
wings your team can eat in 95 seconds!
Enjoy all the chicken wings you can eat for only 95C 
and sample the finalist's recipes as celebrity judges 
select the best wing recipe in Pittsburgh.
Support a local charitythe door proceeds will be 
donated to the charity of the victorious Wing-Off 
teams choice.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
Saga brings their Behavior tour to Pittsburgh
Behaviour, the third album by Saga on 
Portrait Records, will more than fulfill the 
great expectations that have surrounded this 
band for years.
More than a year in the making, Behavior 
marks the first time Saga has worked with 
48 track recording technology. The result is 
by far the best sounding album the band has 
yet released. The album was produced by 
Peter Walsh, whose previous credits include 
Peter Gabriel, China Crisis, and Simple 
Minds. A live performance by Saga in 
Geneva, Switzerland sold Walsh on the band 
immediately. Recording began at Compass 
Point Studios in the Bahamas, and later con
tinued at Powerplay Studios in Zurich, 
Switzerland. The sessions were completed at 
Union Studios in Munich, West Germany.
Saga began in 1977, born of the combin
ed forces of bassist/keyboardist Jim Crichton 
and vocalist/keyboardist Michael Sadler. 
Jims brother Ian came in on guitar, along 
with Steve negus on drums andcompleting 
the lineup in 1980Jim Daryl Gilmour on 
keyboards. The bands first, self-titled LP was 
released in June, 1978 in Canada and 
throughout Europe. It was followed by two 
more limited-release LPs, Images At
Twilight (October, 1979) and Silent Knight 
(November, 1980).
With their next album Worlds Apart, 
Saga was signed to Portrait Records in the 
U.S. and attained new heights of interna
tional popularity. Worlds Apart was 
ultimately certified Gold in Canada, Ger
many, and the U.S., sparked by radio 
favorites like Wind Him Up and On The 
Loose. The band toured the U.S. three 
times, opening for headliners like Jethro 
Tull, Pat Benetar, and Billy Squier Hot on 
the heels of this breakthrough came a live 
LP, In Transit (not released in the U.S.), and 
the strong-selling studio set Heads Or 
Tales.
If Sagas music doesnt sound typically 
Canadian, it may be because Michael Sadler 
was bom in Wales (the son of a Winchester 
Cathedral soloist) and Daryl Gilmour was 
raised near Glasgow, Scotland. All of the 
band were heavily influenced by the prophoto by David Gahr.Jim Crichton, Steve Negus, Michael Sadler, Ian Crichton, and Jim Gilmour of Saga.
Fiction read at Hemingway's
By CHRIS TELFER
Special to the Tartan
CMU English Professor Lynne Barrett 
performed a reading of a new story, Realty, 
last Tuesday evening at the backroom of 
Hemingways Cafe in Oakland. The story, set 
in South Carolina and narrated by the wit
ty northern mistress of a wealthy southerner, 
satirized marriage, presenting it as an invest
ment that is often purchased much like real 
estate. At times hilarious, Realty refreshed 
a message that has always been popular with 
poets and fiction writersmaterial posses
sions arent everything. As a gesture of af
fection, the narrators lover, who owns shop
ping malls, offers to buy his mistress 
anything in the world. She, an avowed 
disbeliever in marriage and a free spirit, felt 
greedy when I asked for the afternoon. The 
crowd packed into the small backroom 
bursted out with laughter several times dur
ing the half hour reading, and exploded into 
a long round of applause at the end.
Ms. Barrett, who went to graduate school 
in North Carolina, handled the Southern 
dialect convincingly, proving to be a clear, 
expressive reader as well as a skillfull writer. 
She has been published in Redbook, as well 
as several literary magazines, and is hoping 
to publish Realty in a well-known, nationally 
circulated magazine. At CMU, Ms. Barrett 
teaches Fiction Workshops, Review Writing, 
and survey courses in fiction and drama 
writing.
Poetry and fiction readings sponsored by 
the University of Pittsburghs English 
Department are held every Tuesday at 8:30 
p.m. at the backroom of Hemingways Cafe. 
Atlhough many of the writers who give 
readings are somehow associated with Pitt 
or CMU, the stage is open to anyone with 
good material. All interested in reading 
should submit material for consideration to: 
Nancy Koerbel 
English Department 
526 Cathedral of Learning 
University of Pittsburgh 
Pittsburgh, PA 15260
gressive British rock bands of the early 
Seventies, and a high point of Sagas live 
show comes when three members are play
ing different keyboards in intricate rhythmic 
and harmonic patterns.
With the release of Behaviour, Saga is 
taking its next step in a seven-year evolution. 
Not content to merely satisfy its interna
tional legions of fans, the band has dared
to take its music to a new plateau. Tracks 
like What Do I Know (the first single), 
Take A Chance, and Nine Lives of Miss 
Midi offer clear indications of their musical 
progress and technological command.
Saga will play at Graffiti next Monday at 
9:00 p.m.
Turn to page 11 for more live music at 
Graffiti next week.
The poetry of Carl Dennis
By MARK CARR
Tartan Staffwriter
Carl Dennis read a sampling of his poetry 
in the Adamson Wing on Thursday, October 
3rd. The Buffalo resident, a bearded and 
bespectacled man of 46, holds a teaching 
position at the State University of New York. 
Dennis is the author of several books of 
poetry, including A House of My Own and
Meg Tilly as Agnes of God
By KAREN ELINICH
Tartan Staffwriter
John Pielmeier happened upon a headline 
eight years ago that read Nun Kills Baby. 
From that seed blossomed the hugely suc
cessful and critically acclaimed Broadway 
play Agnes of God.
Now, Agnes story is brought to the screen 
through the direction of Norman Jewison (A 
Soldier's Story). Agnes is an innocentas 
a child she was kept at home, apart from the 
rest of the world and had no knowledge of 
babies, how they are made, or where they 
come from. When she (now cloistered in a 
convent) gives birth and strangles the baby, 
a number of obvious questions need to be 
answered. The film details the investigation
Student drama in Kresge
The Capacity for Science and Chinamen 
are two one acts to be presented at the 
Kresge Theatre on Wednesday October 9, 
1985. Performances are at 4:30 and 8:00 
p.m. and admission is free. The combina
tion of the two works presents a theatre ex
perience ranging from experimental to com
ical, the first being a new work by a graduate 
playwright, Peter Cipkowski, and the second 
being a one act by the author of Noises Off ', 
Michael Frayn.
The Capacity for Science, directed by 
Anne Miyamoto, is one of the first col
laborative projects within the Drama 
Department. From the start the playwright 
and the director develop the work-inprogress into a full-length production.
The Capacity for Science centers around 
the assumed contradiction between science 
and religion. The action of the play takes 
place in th laboratory of  scientist who is
confronted by her colleague with the realiza
tion of their simultaneous discovery. It takes 
a strong look at the methodology of scien
tific discovery. Cast in the play are three 
seniors actors: Robert Wornoff, Therese 
Barr and Kim Conolly.
The second one act is Chinamen, directed 
by Renata Stachura. It is a hilarious com
edy about a dinner party where the unknow
ing guests are a recently separated couple 
and one of their new lovers. How the hosts 
attack the problem at hand creates havoc 
that is pure laughter.
Cast in the roles are two junior actors, 
Erin Tavin and Michael Curley. The actors 
have the difficult and interesting task of 
playing all seven roles which adds to the 
hilarity of the situation.
All departments are invited to attend. For 
more information call 578-2392.
of the psychiatrist appointed by the court to 
determine whether or not Agnes is mental
ly competent enough to stand trial on 
manslaughter charges.
Jane Fonda returns to the screen after an 
absence during which she created an exer
cise empire to portray Dr. Martha Liv
ingston. The doctor is a tough, chain
smoking woman who is quickly wound-up 
in the complexities of the convent and, 
especially, of Agnes. Ms. Fondas perfor
mance is, as usual, right on the mark. She 
is wonderful to watch. Even more appeal
ing is the relationship between Martha and 
Agnes Mother Superior, played by Anne 
Bancroft. It is a. treat to see two such 
talented actresses working together.- A few 
years ago, Anne Bancroft worked with 
Shirley Maclaine in The Turning Point and 
showed us how wonderful the combination 
of two intense performances can be. Here, 
in Agnes, we get a similar treat. The Mother 
Superiors character is as tough and forceful 
as Marthas,and the two of them together 
provide us with powerhouse performances. 
It would not be surprising if both names are 
on the list of nominations come Oscartime.
Agnes character is given life by Meg Tily, a really talented up-and-coming young 
actress. Youll remember her as the girlfriend 
of the deceased in The Big Chill. She gives 
Agnes the freshness and innocence that 
make us believe that she could possibly have 
been unaware of her condition. Martha calls 
Agnes blessed and Meg Tilly really makes 
us believe it.
The plot twists and turns so much that 
any hints really would spoil its effects. The 
ending is, perhaps, not quite satisfactory, but 
it does draw everything together so that it 
is not a disappointing -one.
Signs and Wonders and recently received a 
Guggenheim fellowship.
Dennis is a soft-spoken man. His voice has 
a low, tremulous, quality which tended 
toward a montone at the start of the reading. 
However, after some initial hesitance, the 
poet opened up and established a comfor
table rapport with the audience. He 
displayed an ingratiating capacity for 
humorous understatement and quiet anger.
A recurrent theme in Dennis poetry is the 
beauty and nobility of ancient Greece. Hav
ing taught courses in Greek literature, he in
jects images of long-dead heroes and epic 
struggles into his work, providing an effec
tive contrast with modem attitudes. Classical 
notions of valor and beauty, the sorrow of 
fallen warriors, and the perceptions of an 
earlier age appear in classrooms, bookstores, 
and libraries; lust and materialism struggle 
with higher ideals.
The poet read a series of compositions 
dealing with unrequited or unadvisable love. 
The dramatic monologues of a lonely 
spinster and a young woman smitten with 
a diamond in the rough; carried convinc
ing emotion. Dennis assured these alien 
points of view with admirable skill. He also 
read some poems expressing his political and 
religious views. While criticizing the 
callousness of big government or poking fun 
at born-again Christians, Dennis verse 
vibrated with repressed cynicism, a sort of 
frustrated scorn; the effect was heightened 
by the shy insistence of his voice. At its best, 
this type of poetry portrayed the author as 
a helpless everyman shaking his fist at those 
in control.
Written in free verse, Dennis poetry has 
a smooth, easy sound; it may seem somewhat 
obscure at first, yet it contains enough con
crete images and genuine sentiment to 
reward the attentive. Viewing the world with 
fresh insight, the poet presented a sadly 
humorous look at life.
Carl Dennis reading was the second in. stallment in the Carnegie-Mellon Universi
ty Visiting Writers Series. Fiction and poetry 
readings are held in the Adamson Wing each 
semester. The English Department schedules 
these events, which are usually followed by 
an informal reception.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanOctober 8, 1985
Dr. Caligari remembers the golden age of Glam
By DR. CALIGARI
Special to The Tartan
Well, this is another theme column. This 
one should be titled Dr. Caligari's Pantheon 
of Cool but isnt, so just think of it that way. 
There is no other way to start thinking of 
cool music but to think of the one man who 
started it all: Little Richard. Yeah, youve 
probably heard it all before, but Little 
Richard really is the coolest man to ever walk 
the earth. Without him, music would never 
have become what is loosely known today as 
rock. His coolness goes way beyond his hit 
Tutti Frutti. In fact, the lesser known songs 
are probably even better (or at least cooler) 
than the hits. Listen to Oh My Soul and 
bask in the absolute hipness.
The Chocolate Watchband has definitely 
influenced a lot of todays bands, but thats 
not what makes them eligible for the pan
theon. They were able to handle many styles 
of music while infusing them all with their 
skill and talent. Theyre generally considered 
to be one of the best garage bands ever and 
even appeared in the movie Riot on Sunset 
Strip which also featured The Standells. A 
Best of collection of their songs has been 
released and is even available on cassette. Go
nab it now.
The Velvet Underground. Yes, you knew 
it was coming. Quite simply, this band 
revolutionized music and was incredibly 
great. At their start, they hung out with the 
Warhol underground scene and he even 
produced their first album. My favorite 
Velvets album is the first its the one with 
the banana on the cover. But within this past 
year a compilation of unreleased Velvets 
material was released and that includes some 
great songs, especially Foggy Notion. 
album is titled VU.
From The Velvet Underground we move 
on into the 70s. Yes, there actually was good 
music then. Check out Parliament and 
Funkadelic. Absolute funk. George Clinton 
probably invented it. This is definitely not 
your sterile radio R.&B. Electric Spanking of 
Warbabies is definitely one of the top albums 
Ive heard in any genre. George comes ex
tremely close to the coolness of Little 
Richard and thats saying a lot. Ive heard 
that hes going to put together another 
Mothership tour and if it happens everyone 
should be there: theyre legendary. Ill be the 
first in line for tickets.
T. Rex is up there in the pantheon too.
Mark Bolan (lead singer) was the first 
post  Beatles rock star in Europe. Does that 
make them cool? No, thats just trivia. The 
music is great and glam and the lyrics make 
no sense at all. T. Rex dealt with atmosphere 
and feeling but they had power too. Listen 
to Rip Off and youll hear it. He did the 
original Bang a Gong (Get It On) and 
thats great too.
Roxy Music. They were the most glam, 
they were avant-garde, they were accessible. 
A moment of silence. Ok, now go run out 
and listen to Bryan Ferry. Hes doing solo 
work and its amazingly good. Eno was in 
Roxy. So was Phil Manzanere. I cant think 
of a single bad song they did.
Bauhaus was cool too. Maybe not as cool 
as their forerunners, but it seems to take a 
lot more to be cool today. Even their most 
heard and successful song Bela Lugosis 
Dead is good. Kick In the Eye and Pas
sion of Lovers are both great. Play these 
loud.
Ok, now Im going to end with my ab
solute favorite current band: Thee 
Milkshakes. They truly deserve the thee 
and are, as they say, The Men With The 
Golden Guitars. The Knights of Trashe is
DOMINOSPIZZA
What record was set 
single handedly by 
Micha^fCairney in 1979?
Who is the founder of the 
number one pizza delivery 
company, Dominos Pizza?
For Answers see below
D
</>
 
2 <
ES
2 N
O Q Gl
The more you know about 
Dominos Pizza, the more youll appreciate the fact that were Americas Number One pizza delivery company. After all, 
getting a hot, delicious pizza like ours delivered right to your door in 30 minutes or less is anything but trivial!
Open for lunch11 am-2am Sun. - Thurs 
11am-3am Fri& Sat.
Our drivers carry less than $20.00.
Limited delivery area.
1984 Dominos Pizza, Inc.
ubmObuow S *iuoqj. 9
(EU 691 to con ) Ouiddoi otitnou sM(uy
DOMINOS PIZZA DELIVERS FREE.
r1
Ia
IIa
IL.
$1.00 off any 
pizzaOne coupon per pizza 
Expires.
Fast, Free Delivery310 N. Craig St Phone: 681-1700
623 Greenfield Ave 
Phone: 521-2970
TM
r1I
RI1
III
IIIIIII
IL,
$i? GC eft any 16 large 2 item or more pizza 
One coupon per pizza 
Expires: 10/20/85
Fast, Free Delivery'
310 N. Craig St 
Phone: 681-1700
623 Greenfield Ave. 
Phone: 521-2970
one of the most solid albums ever and 
deserves to be listened to by everyone. 
Theyre generally grouped with bands in the 
psychobilly genre and are absolutely great.
There are a lot of other cool bands out 
there: James Brown (its got to be the hair 
that does it), Nina Hagen (for her incredi
ble vocal range and unending style), Joy 
Division (for being thouroughly depressing 
and convincing at the same time), and many 
others. Listen to these and really begin to 
hear what good music (or cool music in this 
case) is all about. And now, this column is 
over. Its been my last and I now revert back 
to my non-aimamed self.
Dr. Caligari was the radio aimame for 
Tracy Michelle Unger, a junior majoring in 
Cultural Philosophy.
The Pittsburgh 
Dance Council
The Pittsburgh Dance Council opens the 
second of its Fall Series concerts with two 
performances by the Canadian dancer and 
choreographer Margie Gillis, October 11 and
12 at 8:00 pm at Stephen Foster Theatre in 
Oakland.
Based in Montreal, Gillis has created a 
career as unique as her dancing style. Her 
list of firsts includes being the first modern 
dancer to appear in China, the first modem 
dancer in Canada to star in a special role
with a ballet company, and the first Cana
dian dancer to perform as a guest artist OffBroadway in The Garden of Earthly 
Delights, a work created by Martha Clarke, 
co-founder and former principal with 
Pilobolus. Gillis work, like that of Moses 
Pendeleton of Pilobolus, and the son of 
Pilobolus called Momix, shares their special 
spirit of risk-taking and speed.
Margie has been a phenomenon from the 
beginning, said Margeaux Singleton, PDC 
Executive Director. The solo concert is the 
most difficult theatrical performance for any 
dancer to sustain, but Margie combines 
charisma, a simplicity of technique, and an 
ecstatic response to music that arouses a 
special relationship with her audience. You 
dont have to know a thing about dance to 
be caught up in her pure strength and raw 
physical energy.
continued on page 13
with
touch
Hair designT^djfterenGe
rdinacyextrao
Haircuts $14 to $16
Lewis
Mon.-Fri. 9 to 9 
Sat. 9 to 5
813 S. Aiken Avenue  Shadyside 
682-4063

---------------------------------------------------

October 8, 1985The TartanPage 11
To design and develop today's most 
technologically advanced defense products, 
General Dynamics requires the talents of many 
highly motivated Engineering and Scientific 
graduates.
This year, nearly half of our 1,500 technical 
hires will be in Electrical/Electronic Engineering 
and Computer Science  goal-oriented, highperformance students who will graduate in the 
top half of their classes.
If you are one of these top performers, explore 
the wide range of opportunities available in the 
following technologies: Aeronautics, Advanced 
Signal Processing, Radar Systems, Embedded
X brings live show to Graffiti on Thursday
The one message* we as a band 
have is that, whether you fit in 
or not, you can be brave. You 
can go out and experience as 
many things as possible. And 
you will suffer the con
sequencesbut you'll always 
learn. John Doe
bassist/co-vocalist
1985, and X themselves have learned new 
lessons. Like what it took to honor those 
contractsboth public and private to 
which their idiosyncratic John Hancock has 
been so defiantly pledged. Fate and cir
cumstances combined to test every aspect of 
the bands beliefs.
Ain't Love Grand is the fifth X album. 
Proof that persistence, resilience, faith and 
curiosity have paid off. What Doe describes 
as a platter full of neo-optimistic realism, 
Aint Love Grand offers 11 songs worth of Xrated reflections about romance. Particular
ly, about how neither the public illusion nor 
the private realities of love can be posessed 
or controlled. We narrowed down the scope 
of this album, says bassist/writer Doe. 
Because musically we wanted it to come 
across as a whole, a rock and roll record. Not 
a compilation of playing styles of musical in
terests, or a showcase for each members 
specific artistic bent.
Lyrically, he adds, we werent chicken 
to talk about what happened in our lives. 
But we didnt want to grandstand and we 
certainly werent after soap opera.
Paradoxically, one paramount concern 
was the bands huge backlog of critical ac
claim. From thier 1980 debut (Los 
Angeles/S\asYi) through 1981s Wild Gift 
(Slash), 1982s Under The Big Black Sun 
(Electka) and 1983s More Fun In The New 
World (Elektra), X LPs have been con
sistently greeted with superlatives. But the 
most acclaimed underground band in 
American today {Newsweek), the most im
pressive rock band around (New York 
Times), and the most acclaimed new rock 
band in America) Los Angeles Times) the 
public to make their own evaluations.
One of the biggest problems today, notes 
Doe, is all these filters between the artist 
and the public. From the record company 
to the booking agency to the radio to MTV 
to print interviews. People are constantly 
given all this information that tells em what
theyre supposed to think.
This time we made a conscious effort to 
do more work for the public. Instead of go
ing halfway and expecting them to meet us, 
weve tried to go three-quarters of the 
distance ourselves.
Xs choice of German Michael Wagener 
(best known for the powerhouse production 
propelling Heavy Metal stars such as Dokken, Great White and Accept) to engineer 
and helm an X LP will open a few pop eyes 
and ears. We wanted all the instrumnets 
clear and precise, stresses Doe. We wanted 
to try a new way of handling my singing with 
Exene not as a double vocal but as har
monies that incorportated shadings. Michael 
did things like blend five vocal tracks 
together, use the voices as effects.
Some of it/comments Billy Zoom, is 
stuff weve always been working towards. 
And many of these effects are not what a 
listener may assume. Most of what sounds 
like synthesizer here is funny-sounding 
guitars going at the wrong speed. 
Zoom himself adds sax to one cuta 
diary entry of dislocation entitled Watch 
The Sun Go Down. But his favorite noise 
on the album is a sound-effects tape: a 32
Plymouth coupe with headers uncorked. It 
stands in for the big, hot Hemi of Super
charged, the albumss one pop fillip of 
female machism.
Aint Love Grand was titled in earnest. 
We mean both ways of saying aint love 
grand, comments Doe, the straightforward 
and the sarcastic. Its just that the question 
will always be Is the glass half-empty or is 
the glass half-full? Its a question with 
which the albumss Side One goes five tough 
rounds, ending in what Zoom calls the 
tango of Around My Heart.
Like Side Twos Ill Stand Up For You, 
Around My Heart addresses the present 
without abandoning the past. Sometimes 
people have taken our lyrics much too 
seriously. We do belive in loyalty and com
munity but that is as much a part of the 
music on this record as it is a part of the 
world.
It boils down to one thing, says Doe. 
That to retain the values you admire, you 
have to take decisions. Then you have to take 
the rap for them.
There are hooks on the record, says Ex
ene, but she stresses that they are hooks  
theyre not slogans. This subject matter is
at a deeper level for us. And it can be more 
oblique; sometimes we just give an angle on 
what happens, we don;t try and tell the 
whole story.
New songs such as Little Honey (writ 
ten by Doe with Dave Alvin of the Blasters' 
or Exenes torchy My Goodness, deal with 
the darker undersides of lust, restlessness and 
animal curiosity. And My Soul Cries Youi 
Name, says Doe, is another one of those sex 
songs. But its one that says love is a beautifu) 
thing wherever you get your appetitejust 
be sure to eat at home. A cover of the Small 
Faces 1966 No. 1, All Or Nothing, con
tinues the bands affection for X-rating the 
material of othersfrom Soul Kitchen in 
1980 through Breathless in 1983, to last 
years Wild Thing.
All the detail on Aint Love Grand refers 
back to a single, potent symbol: the burn
ing house of love, the4iome which can turn 
from refuge into haunted hotel. Outwardly 
spruce, inwardly grtim: its borderline bet
ween home and slaughterhouse, love shack 
and honeymoon suite, is a fault line on 
which X have always survived with insight 
as well as style.
continued on page 13
IMPERIAL JEWELRY
Maxon Towers 
6315 Forbes Avenue
One Mile Out From Campus
(412) 521-8930
Software, Lasers and Electro-optics, Composite 
Structures, VLSI, Non-linear Structural Analysis, 
Robotics and CAD/CAM.
At General Dynamics, you will work with our 
innovative professionals in applying these 
technologies toward a wide variety of aerospace, 
computer systems, electronics, shipbuilding and 
military land vehicle programs. Plus, you can stay 
current in your field and make the most of your 
career through our corporate-wide training and 
lifelong education programs.
Don't settle for less than state of the art in your 
career. See your Placement Office for a campus 
interview with General Dynamics.
$55.00
Genuine Diamond in 10K Gold
Promise her in time your love will bloom. . . We promise in time to allow full amount toward engagement ring.
albe

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanOctober 8, 1985
Graffiti crowd loves Weird Al and Dr. Demento
By AMANDA COHEN
Tartan Staffwriter
Weird Al is sane. You may not have 
heard it here first, but Al Yankovic is a sane 
man. And you may not be able to recognize 
it in his concerts, but under the frizz of hair 
and the freaky Hawaiian shirts are a brilliant 
mind and a heart of gold, respectively.
Backstage, hes the sweetest guy a person 
could ever nearly interview, but onstage, hes 
the wacky, zany, nutty kind of a guy hes 
always described himself to be; the guy his 
fans have come to expect.
The music his fans have come to expect 
is Yankovics personalized style of parody ex
emplified in such classics as My Bologna 
(My Sharona), Eat It (Beat It), and 
newer pieces such as I Wanna New Duck 
(.. . New Drug), and Like a Surgeon (you 
know!). Nearly as popular are his original 
songs like Nature Trail to Hell and One 
More Minute. And of course, all his fans 
know his polkas. These fans massed at Graf
fiti last Wednesday to see Weird Al 
Yankovic and Dr. Demento in a concert of 
comedy, music, videos, and all-around 
bizarrity. The range of fans ages had to be 
seen to be believed. The general admission 
show at 7 pm attracted screaming reams of 
children leading their parents and clutching 
album jackets to be autographed. The later
10 pm show brought in an older crowd who 
could better appreciate the older material, 
as well as the classic songs played by Dr. 
Demento.
Doctor Demento has been a disk jockey 
for over 15 years, most of which were spent 
on his own show, a weekly two hour trip in
to the realm of Dementia, where he plays 
classic music-comedy and other rare record
ed materials. Obviously, one cant expect a 
full stage show of a D.J., so Dr. Demento 
supplemented his act with video clips like 
Bambi Meets Godzilla and music videoes like 
Fish Heads by Barnes and Barnes, and 
played only cut versions of songs. It was the 
Good Doctor who discovered Weird Al 
Yankovic when Al sent him a recording of 
his first songs, recorded in a tiled bathroom. 
Al was a mere 19 years of age at the time. 
Since then, they developed a seemingly sym
biotic relationship, as Dr. Demento plays 
almost exclusively comedy, and Weird Al 
tends to find a few suitable classics on his 
hands from each album. Dr. Demento has 
appeared in a few of Weird Als video pieces.
When the Weird One himself finally got 
on the stage, the audience was totally 
transported to that realm of Dementia where 
laughter is the best vice. Little children sang 
along with lyrics they didnt understand, and 
their parents were enjoying the music as
well. The later show had people dancing in 
the aisles by the time he played Dare to Be 
Stupid, the title song from Yankovics most 
recent album. The song has a distinctive 
DEVO flavor to it, and the Stupid Band 
dressed accordingly in yellow plastic jump
suits while a cosmic video display flashed in 
the background. He also performed an as 
yet unreleased medley of every song in the 
history of music ever written about food 
which included tidbits of Girls Just Wanna 
Have Lunch and (I Love) Rocky Road. At 
certain points in the concert, Al would yell 
Drum solo!!! or some other instrument solo, 
and would receive some pithy response from 
the appropriate instrument. And of course 
there were bubbles during Hooked on 
Polkas.
During the song One More Minute, a 
slow hate ballad, Yankovic walked out into 
the audience to serenade little girls in the 
first show, women in the second. All of them 
giggled like teenagers when he gave them 
Hawaiian-patterned scarves. But that was as 
calm as he gotfor the majority of the show 
he danced, nay, flailed around the stage like 
some kind of maniac, just barely keeping his 
hands on the synthesizer and at times nearDr. Demento has based his life on this 
kind of daring. Hes promoted comedy since 
the age of four, when he first heard a Spike
Jones album. A general theme in most of the 
songs he plays is insanity. So are his listeners 
insane? Everyone has a bit of natural insani
ty, he said after the show. Some people ac
tually fear that those of us who listen to the 
Dr. Demento show are dangerously un
balanced. But the Doctor knows different
ly. The music is a vent for the craziness. I 
think that the comedy fans are probably 
saner than the people who dont dare listen 
to my show. Id feel perfectly safe walking 
down a dark alley with any of my listeners. 
His show is pure Dementia. Dementia is 
basically another way of looking at the 
world, and realizing that no one can take 
life too seriously. It means Daring to be 
Stupid.
Weird Al Yankovic has been thusly 
demented from the beginning, and neither 
he nor Dr. Demento plan to change.
Their tour ends this month, but the 
Dementia continues. Fans can Catch the 
Buzz with Weird Als newly released 
videotape called The Compleat Al, and Dr. 
Demento will soon be releasing a six (yes, 
SIX) album set of the greatest recorded 
materials ever. The Doctor and all his 
Dementia can be heard every Sunday night 
from 9 to 11 on 98.5 WPTS. Listen in and 
enjoy a good, healthy laugh.
DEBRA ABELL WOyOdermatologist
 student discount available
 easily accessible b\ bus from CM lT
3500 Fifth Ave, Suite 102, Oakland 
682-4770
\lasitr(2iir(1. \'isa </</< eptcd 
<.all <imx.untmau
KEEP YOUR 
HEADPHONES 
IN PLACE.___
HEADPHONE-SECURING CAPSTRAKHAT as 
Available at the Carnegie-Mellon Bookstore
Were looking for engineers 
who will break new ground 
in CAE product development
Shepherding a new product through the stages from early prototype to market introduction can provide one of the most satisfying and challenging experiences an engineer can encounter. \Xfe are making a nationwide search for highly qualified engineers who can form a close-knit team. Those selected will be asked to throw away the rule book and seek new answers to complex problems in software, manufacturing, tooling and marketing. If you would like to take part in this program, we invite you to consider the 
following professional openings:
Software Development Engineer
Multiple opportunities exist to create significant new CAE capabilities and to integrate them into our second generation CAE environment In one 
specific area, we are looking for individuals experienced in ASIC vendor/workstation vendor relations. Other opportunities deal with new functionality related to design verification tools like simulation, physical 
design tools, and engineering database tools. Mxi should have at least a BSEE or BSCS (or equivalent) and a strong software engineering background Experience with DILWSO C, Pascal or Mainsail preferred. Some 
opportunities prefer a hardware background.
Software Quality Engineer
To work with R&D on defect prevention throughout the design process of new CAE products, tbu should have a BSCS/MSCS (or equivalent) with an EE minor or digital hardware background and experience with *Unix in a high level language environment Experience in CAE simulation preferred.
Marketing Engineers
To work with R&D. field personnel and HP customers to support new product introduction, including field training, market analysis. new product definition, and preparation of promotional materials, tou should have a BSEE or equivalent and both prior marketing and CAE experience are preferred. Frequent travel may be required.
Some of the best engineers we know do not keep current resumes. If you are one of them, just send us a letter that outlines your background and accomplishments. \Me will be in touch quickly. Relocation aid to the Colorado Springs area will be provided. Mbu will find supportive management extensive resources and excellent potential for recognition and advancement Please respond to:m
HEWLETT
PACKARD
p!a*M 21*7
Cilinli Sprinta. CO 0*01
Hewlett-Packard Company s an affirm** action employer (M/F/H/V)
-from a place In your mind toa place In the market.
Precision Haircuts custom designed 
for the look you want 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED 
Great Styles Start at... no
' APPOINTMENT0eMQTeHrecrflTions
NECESSARY
PRECISION HAIRCUT TERS
WASH, CUT AND 
BLOW DRY
$13.00
(ANY LENGTH)
COLORPERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES
$25.00
Thurs., Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post OfTice 
Mon., Tues., Wed. 10-7
UNISEX HAIR SALON
687-3500 
No Appointments

---------------------------------------------------

October 8, 1985The TartanPage 13
Nongogo explores life in South Africa
Because of all of the attention given to the 
peculiar political and economic institution 
in the country of South Africa, we seldom 
reflect on the normalcy of living, and lov
ing, and dreaming that occurs between peo
ple there.
These are subjects explored by South 
Africas most acclaimed playwright, Athol 
Fugard, in one of his earliest 
works, Nongogo. The play will open Friday, 
October 11th for a five week run at George 
Westinghouse Auditorium. This American 
premiere is produced by the McCurdy Arts 
Complex, Inc.
Unlike Fugards successfully produced 
political plays Sizwe Bansi Is Dead and
The Pittsburgh 
Dance Council
continued from page 10
In addition to her trademark athletic 
strength, Gillis is known for her extreme 
shifts of mood from piece to piece. With 
waist-length hair flying across her shoulders, 
she alternates between the shy, lyrical grace 
in Waltzing Mathilda to exhilarating, gym
nastic back flips in Who Gets to Fly 
Anymore, Anyway? Her use of music ranges 
from Mendelssohn to Talking Heads.
The result is a striking stage presence 
combined with emotional frailty and a sur
prising sensuality, Singleton continued. It 
allows her to create those unforgettable im
ages which draw audiences to her all over 
the world.
This intimate rapport with the audience 
is at the heart of Gillis work. Im trying to 
make a connection with my audiences, she 
has been quoted as saying. That was the 
whole point of dancing in the first place.
Tickets for Margie Gillis are available now 
by calling the Pittsburgh Dance Council at 
(412) 355-0330 for phone orders (Visa and 
Mastercard accepted).
FtttOlDSi *85
THE COMFORTABLE 
JAPANESE COUCH 
OR BED. 661-6499 
CARLISLE MATTRESS 
FACTORY OURLET
PREGNANT?
And you didn't mean to be? For a tree pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 741-3491.
Time to... Care More, Share More
United way
$98
Master Harold and the Boys, this work con
centrates on the human relationships of 
those residing within the black townships 
surrounding Johannesburg. Without stones 
or tear gas individuals struggle for selfdetermination. There is no need for wig and 
gavel to uncover false morality. In the 
abscense of steel bars hope can be shut away 
or feed to take flight.
Nongogo's five member cast includes Pit
tsburgh natives John C. Wanamaker, 
Douglas Pona, Antony McLeRoy-Newham, 
and Lloyd Hagan. Myrenna Hawthorne, an 
international performer residing on Pitts
burgh, seasons the cast. They are directed 
by Bob Johnson, assistant director of the 
Black Studies Department at the University 
of Pittsburgh.
Nongogo is the McCurdy Art Complexs 
third major production. In 1984 the group 
toured Ms. Hawthorne in a one woman show 
entitled The Three Phases of Womanhood.
This production marks the beginnning of a 
three show season culminating with the 
opening of permanent facilities in the 
Homewood community.
Performances of Nongogo are Fridays and 
Saturdays at 7:30 pm October 11th through 
November 9th, and Sundays at 3:00 pm Oc
tober 14th through November 10th. The 
production is staged at the George 
Westinghouse Auditorium, 1101 North 
Murtland in the Homewood section of Pitts
burgh, Pennsylvania.
Tickets are available at the Tix Booth in 
Oliver Plaza on Wood Street between 5th 
and 6th Avenues (391-8368); Dorsey Records 
at 7614 Frankstown Avenue (731-6607); 
Musicman Records at 216 North Highland 
Avenue (361-7853); and the East Liberty 
Chamber of Commerce at 124 South 
Highland Avenue (661-9660).
General admission is $8.00, Senior
Citizens and students with I.D. only $5.00. 
Discount rates for groups of 10 or more per
sons are also available.
For more information call 521-1698 or 
243-2210.
X at Graffiti
continued from page 11
On Aint Love Grand they make us again 
a part of that family where the very bonds 
and tensions which hold people together also 
pull them apart. In modern music, as in 
modern life, a lust for destruction lies just 
below the surface of things. It is the special 
talent of X that they bring this impulse into 
focus in order to try and triumph over it, 
turning every available weapon to use. anger, 
humor, self-realization, searing guitar and 
apocalyptic rhythms: in the an of X, hallow
ed American melodies meet the unholy 
American moment.
NEW YORKTHANKSGIVING
ROUND TRIP VIA
PEOPLEXPRESS
Depart PIT Nov. 27 at 7:15 p.m. 
Depart EWR Dec. 1 at 5:25 p.m. 
CHRISTMAS TO NEW YORK & BOSTON 
Seats are Limited so Book Early 
For All of Your Travel Needs
FELLOWSHIPS
Since 1949, more than 5,000 men and women have earned advanced degrees in engineering and science with the help of Hughes fellowships. The Hughes commitment to furthering your education and your career.More than 100 new fellowships will be available in the coming year for graduate study in:
Engineering (Electrical, Mechanical, Computer, Systems, Aeronautical, Manufacturing) Computer Science Applied Math PhysicsAs a Hughes Fellow, you could be studying for your Masters, Engineer, or PhD degree while receiving: Tuition, books, and fees Educational stipend Full employee benefits Relocation expenses Professional-level salary Summer employment Technical experience Total Value: $25,000 to $50,000 a year.
Youll also have the opportunity to gain valuable on-the-job experience at Hughes facilities in Southern California and Arizona while youre completing your degree Hughes Fellows work full-time during the summer. During the academic year, Work Study Fellows work part-time while studying at a nearby university; Full Study Fellows attend classes full-time.Since Hughes is involved with more than 92 technologies, a wide range of technical assignments is available. An Engineering Rotation Program is also available for those interested in diversifying their work experience.
Hughes Aircraft Company Corpprate Fellowship Office 
Dept NC-85, Bldg. C2/B168 P.O. Box 1042, El Segundo, CA 90245
Minimum G.P.A.3.0/4.0 Proof of U.S. Citizenship Required Equal Opportunity Employer
PIONEER THE FUTURE
Hughes Aircraft Company, Corporate Fellowship Office, Dept. NC-85 Bldg. C2/B168, P.O. Box 1042, El Segundo, CA 90245.
Please consider me a candidate for a Hughes Fellowship and send me the necessary information and application materials.
HUGHES
)Af T COMPANY
PLEASE PRINT: NameDate
Address
City
I am interested in obtainina a Masters
State Zip 
Engineer degree Doctorate
in the field of:Rotation Program Interest
DEGREES NOW HELD (OR EXPECTED) 
Bachelors: Date FieldSchool G P A
Masters: DateFieldSchool G P A
U.S. Citizenship Required.WRITEYOURSELF IN

---------------------------------------------------

SSf
AB Lectures
Presents
Wednesday, October 23
8 pm Ballroom
Photograph  5 982 -MM Krementz
Kurt Vonneut
Tickets on Sale Wednesday, 
October 9 at 9 a.m., at Skibo 
Information Desk
You must present your own CMU ID 
One ID per person 
You can buy 2 tickets at $3 per ticket
Tickets available for CMU community only 
Tickets on Sale Mon.Fri. 9am5pm
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Anderson and Lockhead lead scoring threat
Soccer kicks Division I Youngstown 9-1
By BONNIE JACOBSON
Tartan Sports Editor
In an outstanding showing this week the 
CMU Soccer Team upped their record to 6-2 
by racking up two victories over Geneva Col
lege and Youngstown St.
About Geneva, Coach Nick Gaudioso said 
It was a great game. It was pretty physical 
and a lot of players sustained injuries. 
Geneva scored first but senior co-captain 
Alex Tomlinson tied it up soon thereafter. 
Geneva scored again, however, and at 
halftime the score stood at 2-1. In the second 
half, Bobby Stefanowicz tied it up with a 
goal followed closely by Ted Anderer who 
scored the final and deciding goal with 13 
minutes left to play. Assists were supplied by 
Kevin Jung and co-captain Charlie 
Lockhead.
To finish out the week, the booters went 
up against Youngstown State to wage an 
almost embarassing 9-1 win. Gaudioso said 
we thought theyd be better, but this was 
kind of a whitewash. The coach rotated the 
players, but still they continued to score with 
a three goal performance coming from for
ward Doug Anderson. Sophomore forward 
Alan Mayer and mid-fielder Lockhead both 
contiributed two goals each. Individual goals 
were scored by forward John Kenny and 
defender Mark Zoldi.
The one goal managed by YSU was not 
scored against first-string goalie Sam Mon
tague. Montague has a scored upon average 
of less than one goal per game.
This week the team faces Marietta Col
lege but this game is not their biggest con
cern. They are looking to their October 19 
meeting against Bethany and how it affects 
their chances for the playoffs.
Soccer is very hard for the PAC. We need 
a 14-2 record to get into the playoffs. The 
Conference is pretty much secondary. For us 
to get there we have to beat Bethany, who 
are ranked about tenth in the country, we 
hope we can win the next three games so we 
both go in at around 9-2, stated Gaudioso. 
When asked about the progress the team has 
made he replied, we have some excellent 
players, were getting some outstanding play.
Kevin Jung dodges opponent in Tartan match up against Division I Youngstown State. Photo bY Evan McDonnell
photo by Evan McDonnell
Co-Captain Charlie Lockhead deflects ball in YSU game. Lockhead leads Tartans in season goals scored.
Tartans trample Thiel to continue streak
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
The Carnegie-Mellon Tartans, completely 
dominating from the opening kickoff, beat 
Thiel College in a blow-out, 48-3.
In the beginning, it looked as though the 
Tartans could only beat themselves. And 
they were trying. Three times CMU drove 
toward the end zone, only to stop themselves 
by fumbling or throwing an interception. Yet 
at halftime, the Tartans led 35-0.
Quarterback Mike Hensel led the Tartan 
offense completing ten of 15 passes for 227 
yards and three touchdowns. And Hensel 
only played the first half. CMU finished with 
546 total yards on offense, while giving up 
just 197 yards to Thiel, just 77 yards rushing. 
Tony Collaros led the Tartan rushing attack 
with 79 yards on 14 carries. Eight CMU 
backs had over 20 yards, led by Collaros, Vic 
Boland (49 yards on 14 carries) and Gary 
Marchionna (44 yards on seven carries).
CMUs defense played a very punishing 
style that stopped Thiel cold. Quarterback 
Chris Blakesle did not help his own cause, 
missing open receivers by wide margins, and 
finishing with just four completions in 14 at
tempts for 46 yards. Backup Greg Stringer 
hit on seven of 16 for 74 yards and led the
Tomcats with 41 yards rushing. Third-string 
QB Jim Fucci threw one pass which was in
tercepted by Jeff OHanlon. Rob Arthur also 
had an interception for CMU.
The big play of the game came late in the 
second quarter. Hensel found halfback Bil
ly Cramer wide open deep for a 60-yard 
touchdown. Hensel also completed a 19-yard
touchdown to Tim Kelly and a 17-yard TD 
to Tim Denmeade. Cramer had four catches 
for 101 yards.
Tartan TattlersIt was the Tartans biggest 
margin of victory since they defeated Thiel 
50-11 two years ago. . .The undefeated Tar
tans (5-0) play at Grove City College (3-1) 
next Saturday. . .CMU was ranked second in
the Lambert Cup voting, ranking eastern 
Division III teams. National rankings come 
out today. . .conference rival W&J defeated 
Case Reserve 20-13 Saturday, Cases first loss 
since their 15-10 defeat at the hands of CMU 
two years ago. . . Tim Messersmith made a 
21-yard field goal for Thiel, his seventh in 
conference play. The PAC record is 11.
Sophomore halfback Billy Cramer after snagging one of his four receptions.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanOctober 8, 1985
HOWARD
JOHNSON
Lodge
119 Newly Remodeled 
Rooms
Tartan Field Hockey takes a win and a loss
THIS BUD'S FOR YOU.
BUOWEISER*>KING Of BEERS ANHEUSER-BUSCH INC ST LOUIS
By BARBARA FREESE
Tartan Staffwriter
In their last two games, the lady Tartans 
scored a victory, but also suffered a loss. The 
loss was to Indiana University of PA. by a 
score of 2-0. The coach felt they played a 
good, wide-open game, but IUP was just 
slightly stronger. The CMU women improv
ed from last year when they lost to IUP, 7-0.
On the winning note, the Tartans were 
victorious against PAC rival, Washington 
and Jefferson. CMU scored early in the first 
half and then both teams played a pretty 
even game.
Going into the game, the CMU coach ex
pected the girls to play a wide-open game 
and thats exactly what they did. In the opi
nion of the coach the outstanding players
were Maria Kozo with two goals and Kim 
Cuilla with one. On the defensive side, Karen 
Tobasky was a super sweeper and the sidehalves Eirene Yamamura, Jill Dorson, and 
Dee Nyzio played a great game.
Carnegie-Mellon had 22 shots on goal 
compared to 19 by W&J. Sue Klein, CMU
goalie, was credited with 10 saves. W&J had 
11. The coach said that the girls played the 
game passing nicely and moving to receive 
nicely. The final score was 3-0.
The last Tartan field hockey home game 
will be Tuesday, October 8, against Hiram * 
College. Games are played on the IM field.
CMU accomodating 
Women's Athletics
photo by Andy Gillespie
Sophomore Sarah Faye performs a non-stick dodge to get around her W&J opponent.
By RICK DUVALL
Tartan Staffwriter
When asked to describe collegiate 
athletics most people envision football. On 
the national level football and basketball are 
the glamour sports. They derive the revenue 
used to run the other programs in the 
athletic departments. These two sports have 
one very obvious connection: men. Both are 
played by men. With all the glamour, they 
tend to outshine the remainder of the mens 
program and the entire womens program. 
Womens collegiate athletics are not on the 
minds of most of America, or the world for
.PICKUPA PARTY
that matter. What happens to the womens 
athletic program at smaller schools wlhere 
the mens program isnt very big in the first 
place? (By very big I mean it draws students 
to the school to play that sport.)
Lets look at the current womens athletic ~ 
program here at Carnegie-Mellon Universi
ty. Women now have seven womens varsity 
sports and one co-ed. That total includes 
some recent additions. Cross-country, track 
& field, and swimming have been added to 
the program in recent years. Swimming has 
been changed from co-ed to separate mens 
and womens teams. Recent changes in the 
Presidents Athletic Conference, to which 
most Carnegie-Mellon teams belong, have 
included more sports for women, the total 
recognized or sanctioned by the PAC grew 
from five to eight.
The fact that very little is known about 
the womens program does not mean the 
teams are not competitive. The programs 
that have been functioning for some time 
can hold their own with the rest of the con
ference. Given time the newest additions will 
undoubtedly develop into powers to be dealt 
with.
To gain a bit more insight into the lack 
of national attention for womens sports in  
general, we must look to the real reason for 
collegiate athletics. It is, to many, the last 
spot to showcase skills to get the pros. 
How many professional womens leagues in 
any sport have lasted any length of time? 
There just isnt a market for lady jocks in 
the professional ranks.
Until the female athlete has a real market 
value, I dont see a dramatic increase in the 
popularity of womens athletics.
Get out to see some of the Lady Tartans 
in action this year. All in all, when the ladies* 
are in the action, there is much more inten
sity than with the same sport and the men.
3401 Boulevard of the Allies Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213 (412) 683-6100 (800) 245-4444
* * a

---------------------------------------------------

October 8, 1985The TartanPage 17
Harriers pull out Hiram victory despite conditions
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
Despite poor weather, a pair of sick run
ners, and transportation status, the 
Carnegie-Mellon mens cross-country team 
defeated Hiram 26-33 for its 69th con
secutive NCAA dual meet victory.
Hiram runners were the first two to cross 
the finish line, but CMU claimed the third 
thru sixth positions, the first Tartan runner 
to cross the finish line was Paul Carnine, 
followed by freshman Pat Noll. Finishing
IM Report
The results of the E.J 
Of the 20 participants 
Lambda Phi came out
are in. 
teams, Pi 
i a com
two teams
following closely for third. In the in
DU-A, and 
the Crunch Bunch are all tied for first.
Some new IM Sports are opening up and 
sign-up sheets are out. The bowling league 
entries are due on October 10 as are entrants 
for IM Table Tennis. On October 17, sign
ups should be in for team volleyball and six 
person soccer. Sheets are posted on the 
Bulletin Board outside Gym Room 101.
Volleyball
By BOB KOCA
Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU volleyball team had three mat
ches this past week. On Thursday, the team 
lost to Seton Hill 2-0. On Saturday the team 
lost to John Carroll 3-0 but defeated Erie 
College 2-0. Their record is now 10 wins and
6 losses.
Coach Jane Fisk commented that the team 
was not at 100% for these matches. Due to 
illnesses and academic circumstances, only
7 players were able to play Thursday and on
ly 8 on Saturday. Some of the players who 
did play suffered from a touch of the flu, 
which Coach Fisk suspects is why the team 
was not as quick as it should have been.
m
HEWLETT
PACKARD
LIST OURMODEL CALCULATORS PRICE PRICEHP- 11C Slim-l.tne Scientific 75 00 59.95HP-12C Advanced Financial 120 00 89.95HP-15C Advanced Scientific 12C 00 89.95HP-16C Digital Programmei 120 00 89.95HP-41 CV Handheld Computei 225 00 165.00 HP-41 CX Handheld Computei 325 00 245.00 HP 71B Handheld Computei 525 00 395.00
All calculators in stock for same 
day delivery. Call for prices on 
products not listed
St
COMPUTERPRODUCTS
DIVISION OF GRAPHIC ARTS SUPPLY
699 Seneca St.
Buffalo, NY 14210
Call: (716) 85^-0004
fifth and sixth were sophomores Keith 
Stapen and Dan Danowski.
The weather at Hiram, like that of most 
of the rest of the region, was cold, windy and 
overcast, and Saturday was the first time this 
year the Tartans were forced to run under 
such conditions.The weather had quite a bit 
of effect, said cross country coach Gary 
Mechkley.
Also affecting the running of the CMU
scheduled to carry the team to Hiram fail
ed to show up. Coach Meckley has a little 
Honda that seats four comfortably. When 
you cram 6 runners into a car that small, 
drive for 11/2 hours, and arrive 15 minutes 
before the start of the meet (versus the nor
mal 1 hour prior), it has to take a toll. 
One additional handicap the cross coun
try team overcame was the temporary loss 
of two runners to sickness. Both Mark Silecki 
and Tony Scarpeili were unable to make the
tracksters was the fact that the minibus trip to Hiram due to the flu.
The womens cross country team also com 
peted at Hiram, and emerged victorious by 
the score of 20-38. Hirams Lynn Furry 
finished first, but CMU, lead by senior 
Margaret Wismer, captured the second 
through sixth slots.
Next week, coach Meckleys speedsters 
compete in the Fairmont Invitational, at Firmont, WV. Coach Meckley expects to finish 
in the top three teams. Im not really wor
ried.
Cyert explains Pirates acquisition
The following letter is a campus-wide an
nouncement from CMU President Richard 
M. Cyert concerning Camegie-Mellons in
volvement in the purchasing of the Pitt
sburgh Pirates.
The recent press announcement that a 
private group of investors has purchased the 
Pittsburgh Pirates baseball club included 
reference to Carnegie-Mellon University as 
being one of those investors.
I wish to clarify that our involvement in 
no way draws any funds from university 
resources.
An outstanding, long-time contributor 
and friend of the university approached us 
a few months ago and expressed a wish to 
invest in keeping the Pirates in Pittsburgh. 
The source asked if we would be willing to 
accept their gift to be invested in the Pirates. 
I agreed with the understanding that the 
university would not make any investment 
with funds of its own and would assume no 
liabilities as a result of this gift.
I, along with Mayor Caliguiri and other 
business leaders involved,, agree that keep
ing the Pirates in Pittsburgh is an important
factor in our efforts to revitalize the Pitt
sburgh economy. I believe that a strong stu
dent body and faculty thrive in a diverse, 
vital environment such as Pittsburgh.
I want to emphasize that our cooperation 
in the purchase of the Pirates involves no use 
of existing operating funds or endowment, 
and is separate from our academic program. 
In accepting^ this gift, we continue to seek 
to attract outside contributions to 
Carnegie  Mellons educational and 
research programs so that these aspects of 
our campus will be strengthened.
Coming Soon.
Unheard of 
Career Opportunities 
for a Few Select Majors.
Electrical Engineers...Computer Scientists... 
Mathematicians...Language Specialists.
The National Security Agency analyzes foreign 
signals, safeguards our governments vital com
munications and secures the governments massive 
computer systems.
NSAs unique, three-fold mission offers you 
unheard of career opportunities. Here are just a few 
of the exciting possibilities:
Electrical Engineering. Research and develop
ment projects range from individual equipments to 
complex interactive systems involving micro
processors, mini-computers and computer graphics. 
Facilities for engineering analysis and design 
automation are among the most advanced anywhere.
Computer Science. Interdisciplinary careers in
clude systems analysis and design, scientific applica
tions programming, data base management systems, 
operating systems, graphics, computer security and 
networkingall in one of the worlds largest com
puter installations.
Mathematics. Projects involve giving vitally im
portant practical applications to mathematical con
cepts. Specific assignments could include solving 
communications-related problems, performing longrange mathematical research or evaluating new 
techniques for computer security.
Language Specialists. Challenging assignments 
for Slavic, Near-Eastern and Asian language majors 
include rapid translation, transcription and 
analysis /reporting. Newly-hired language specialists 
may receive advanced training in their primary 
language(s).
In addition to providing you with unheard of chal
lenges, NSA offers a highly competitive salary and 
benefits package. Plus, youll have the chance to live 
in one of the most exciting areas of the country 
between Washington, D.C., and Baltimore, Md.
Sound good? Then find out more. Schedule an in
terview through your College Placement Office or 
write to the National Security Agency.
NSA will be on campus October 28 and 29,1985. 
ibr an appointment, contact your placement 
office.
Limited summer opportunities for juniors 
majoring in Electrical Engineering, Computer 
Science and the above foreign languages.
VUnheard of Career Opportunities
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY 
ATTN: M322(N)
Fort Meade. MD 20755-6000
U.S. Citizenship required An equal opportunity employer

---------------------------------------------------

Metro MusicAB CONCERTS AND AB DANCE PRESENT:
//
 EACH TICKET PURCHASED WILL 
ENTER THE PURCHASER IN A 
RHYTHM ROMANCE RAFFLE. GRAND 
PRIZE INCLUDES A ROMANTIC DIN
NER FOR 2, AND BACKSTAGE PASSES 
TO MEET THE ROMANTICS.
Bitmvrn
RHYTHM ROMANCE"
TOUR
WITH A SPECIAL GUEST
Saturday, October 19 
8:00 pm CMU Gym
General Admission Tickets 
$5.00 for CMU Students 
Available at Skibo Information Desk
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES 
IS LOOKING FOR ANOTHER CURIE.
When you spend four years cooking eight tons 
of pitchblende down to a single gram of radium, 
thats perseverance.
Perseverance, and the confidence to know 
when youre right, and the courage to keep going.
Wed like to find a few more people like that.
We have a lot to offer in exchange. As a 
worldwide group of companies, with galaxy-wide 
interests, we have room for tons of raw materials 
and time for years of patience. And sometimes it
seems almost everyone heres an engineer, right 
up to the top, so we speak your language.
Were the worlds largest maker of helicopters, 
aircraft engines, elevators, escalators, and air 
conditioners. Theres always something cookings 
in spacesuits or fiber optics. Were at the center.
Check us out. Stop in at the campus place
ment office, or write for more information and 
a reprint of this ad. United Technologies, 
P.O. Box 1379, Hartford, CT 06143.
UNITEDTECHNOLOGIES
United Technologies means 
Pratt & Whitney, Hamilton 
Standard, Otis, Carrier, 
Automotive Group, United 
Technologies Microelectronics 
Center, Norden, Chemical 
Systems, Essex, Sikorsky, 
Mostek and United Technol
ogies Research Center.
An equal opportunity employer.

---------------------------------------------------

Efflorial.
Get involved with 
Homecoming 1985
Homecoming 1985 begins next Friday, Oc
tober 18. There is a misconception on this cam
pus that says that Homecoming is just for alum
ni. Wrong. This year, the opportunity is greater 
than ever before for student involvement in 
Homeconming.
Dave Maloney, Director of Alumni Relation, 
has an interesting philosophy on Homecoming. 
Homecoming is a time when the school gets its 
alumni back, and the school tries to put its best 
foot forward, and the students are the biggest 
part of that foot.
We should take pride in our university. Alumni 
can be a great support system for a school, finan
cially and otherwise. When the alums come back 
to see Camegie-Mellon, they are proud of the 
succcess and prestige that the university has gain
ed. But the bottom line is the students. If alum
ni see students enthusiastic about what is going 
on around them, they will be more likely to sup
port the school.
Maloney has helped put together the 
Homecoming Advisory Committtee, comprising 
of students, which is helping to coordinate stu
dent organizations planning events for 
Homecoming.
On Saturday morning, October 19, all 
academic departments will be having an open 
house for students and alumni from 9:00-11:00 
a.m. This is a great event where students and 
alumni from the same fields can get together and 
find out what things are like in the real world 
and how they differ from campus life.
On Friday afternoon, the festivities begin with 
a giant cake commemorating the 150th birthday 
of Andrew Carnegie. Randy Purcell and the 
CMU Jazz Band will be performing. Friday night 
will be thelargest parade ever at CMU, accor
ding to Maloney, followed by the annual pep rally 
on the IM field.
This is an event that usually is attended by few 
people. Show some school spirit this year. Take 
pride in this place; for most of us it will be the 
only school we attend. Attendance at the pep ral
ly and especially at Saturdays football game 
would be a great show of student unity and would 
surely impress visiting alumni. Besides, this is an 
exciting Homecoming game, which, barring 
upsets this Saturday will pit two nationally-ranked 
teams who will be battling for a playoff berth and 
the conference championship.
Homecoming is a time when students and 
alumni should both get a feeling of alma mater. 
Show some spirit; get out and participate in these 
events. Youll help university relations, and you 
might even have fun.
For a full Homecoming schedule, ask at the 
Skibo Information Desk.
The Tartan will not be published next 
week due to the mid-semester holiday. 
Look for our next issue Tuesday, October 
22, featuring our Homecoming 
supplement.
M.SuisMAht
Letters: Bewildered by low
Editor:
Everyday, I am bewildered by a 
new low which this University 
reaches. President Cyert constant
ly reminds us what a great institu
tion we are, comparable to MIT, 
Harvard and Stanford. I have 
come to accept his rhetoric as sim
ple propaganda in the hope that 
one day he will wake up listening 
to the Talking Heads and say to 
himself, My God, what have I 
done? At which point, distraught 
by the realization of his inep
titude, he will immediately resign. 
Im not counting on this to hap
pen, although it would be nice. 
Ordinarily Cyert is the one 
responsible for my rage every 
week; but, recently it was the Tar
tan itself which pushed my opi
nion of this University one notch 
lower. The Tartan is published 
once a week, at best, and with all 
the monumental problems this 
University has, the editorial 
becomes a very important 
medium for publicizing the issues. 
As an intellectual institution it
should be the goal of any univer
sity to create a climate that 
enhances learning and thought. 
Every university decision should 
be made with this rather general 
goal in mind. We are, after all. an 
institution of higher learning.
Recently, a Tartan editorial ad
dressed an issue which had 
nothing to do with personal and 
intellectual growth or higher lear
ning. It had nothing to do with 
altruism or apartheid or acid rain 
or topics which might be brought 
up by intellectual people in con
trolled environments, people who 
pay $12,000 per year to learn. The 
issue raised by the Tartan was a 
lack of parking spaces. Students 
from across the United States and 
around the world come to C-MU. 
Why do they come here? The Tar
tan might be surprised to learn 
that they dont come here to park 
cars. They might also be surpris
ed to learn that cars have very lit
tle to do with intellectual thought 
and learning. This might come as
a shock to the Tartan, but cars 
really have no place at all in a 
university situation. When I tell 
people this some immediately say, 
But..but how am I going to get 
around? while giving me a 
bewildered look as though I spoke 
in Swahili. It is these students, 
and I use the term loosely, that 
have no reason to be here. A com
munity college in the suburbs has 
plenty of parking space; and, 
when youre done with classes you 
can go hang out in the mall and 
eat at McDonalds. If your men
tality demands that you have a car 
at a university in the city, then you 
will learn just as much there as 
here. To suggest that we destroy 
trees and grass for pavement is im
mature and uneducated. I suggest 
to the editor that he reconsider his 
intellectual position before he 
shells out another semesters tui
tion at this very expensive institu
tion of higher learning. He might 
be better off in the suburbs.
Mark Garrity 
Architecture, 87
Rogers addresses parking
Editor:
I am writing in response to the 
Editorial in the October 1, 1985 
Tartan concerning parking at 
CMU. I am in agreement that 
parking is a serious issue on the 
campus and that more student 
parking would be desirable. 
However, I want to set the record 
straight on the number of park
ing spaces which are available and 
the impacts of the recent campus 
developments.
With the closing of the Mellon 
Institute parking lot for the con
struction of the SEI, 150 permits 
were withdrawn from the total 
available to the campus. With the 
new availability of the Bureau of 
Mines lots, we will be able to add
at least 180 permits. Thus, there 
is actually a net gain for this year, 
compared to last. Two years ago, 
we added over 200 spaces to the 
total capacity with the expansion 
of the Morewood lot and the ad
dition of a new lot adjacent to 
Doherty Apartments. Thus we are 
making steady progress in increas
ing the amount of parking, even 
with the construction. When the 
SEI building is complete it will 
further increase the total parking 
available on campus.
What I said at the Student 
Senate meeting was that there 
were approximately 500 permits 
still available at that time for sale 
to individuals on the waiting list, 
of which approximately 200
would not be available until we 
had actually purchased the 
Bureau of Mines. As of (October 
4), all graduate students who re
quested a parking space in the 
allocation process (had) been of
fered one. As of Monday, October 
7 all commuting Seniors and 
Juniors on the waiting list (had 
been) offered a parking permit. 
Once it is determined'how many 
of those students on the waiting 
list still actually want a parking 
permit, the remaining permits 
will be offered to other students 
on the waiting list. I hope that we 
will be able to offer a parking 
space to nearly everyone who re
quested one.
continued on page 21

---------------------------------------------------

October 8, 1985The TartanPage 21
Letters:
Rogers wants ideas
continued from page 20
The major impact of the construction ac
tivities has not been so much to reduce the 
total parking as to increase the confusion to 
the point that we are behind schedule in of
fering permits to those who requested them.
I have appointed a task force to study how 
we can improve the timeliness of when per
mits are available to returning students for 
next fall. I do apologize for the delays in get
ting permits for the available spaces out to 
those who requested them this year.
As to structured parking, I am in agree
ment that we need to consider building 
some. The problem is economics. Parking 
garages are much more expensive to build 
and operate per space than surface parking. 
How we make the transition from surface 
parking to structured parking while increas
ing our total capacity and maintaining 
reasonable rates is indeed a difficult problem 
on which I welcome suggestions. Reducing 
demand is another alternative. The 
Allegheny County Port Authority has pro
posed extending the downtown subway out 
through Oakland, past CMU to Forbes and 
Murray. I would like to see more modest 
(and more likely) improvements in public 
transportation such as extending the MLK 
busway service to CMU. It will take imagina
tion and cooperation if we are to continue 
to expand in our urban setting. Never
theless, we have made progress in the past 
few years and are continuing to do so today, 
even with parking.
Sincerely, 
Fred Rogers 
Vice President for Business Affairs
More parking woes
Editor:
I was particularly interested in your 
Editorial this week dealing with the problem 
of insufficient parking space on campus. 
This is primarily due to the fact that I ob
tained a car over the summer, and am fac
ing the parking problem for the first time 
this fall.
One issue or aspect of the parking ques
tion that has not been adequately address
ed from my viewpoint is the concept of oc
casional parking by commuting students 
from relatively short distances away. For ex
ample, I live in the area between Shadyside 
and Bloomfield, and usually ride my bike 
to school. There are, however, occasions 
when I need to carry lots of stuff for labs, 
or books for examseven days when I have 
packages from the post office to carry home. 
It is not unusual for me to drive to CMU, 
only to end up parking at a meter almost 
as far away time-wise from my classes as my 
apartment is!
If CMU does get around to putting in 
some structural parking while Im still 
around, I would like to request that some 
system be worked out to allow for occasional 
parking. This could either be by having an 
attendant and charging some nominal fee
for students showing valid CMU ID cards, 
or by working out a system similar to food 
service, where admission to a parking facility 
subtracted some amount of funds from a 
credit account.
Bdale Garbee 
Electrical Engineering, 
Computer Engineering, and 
Mathematics, 86Response to Gray
Editor:
If Karen Gray is so desperate to have pro
fessional writers on her staff, perhaps she 
should consider offering money. As a pro
fessional graduate student, new to CMU and 
pretty unfamiliar with both The Tartan and 
the English department, I cant speak for 
more than myself and other masters 
students. (The undergraduates will have to 
come to their own defense.) But I must 
shake my finger at Ms. Gray for making 
some hasty assumptions.
First, she assumes that The Tartan needs 
professional writing majors. Later she sug
gests that professional writing students need 
The Tartan. Naturally one would figure 
that writers and publications thrive on each 
other. But isnt it equally true that The Tar
tan needs writers from all disciplines, and 
that the non-professional-writing majors 
need The Tartan? After all, The Tartan is 
a university-wide paper.
Ms. Gray also implies that The Tartan is 
far more worthier of professional writing 
students attention than other campus 
publications (not to mention assigned
papers). I dont see The Tartan reaching or 
influencing a group of readers that are more 
important than ony others on campus. The 
faculty newsletter, Focus, is every bit as 
valuable as The Tartan in what it has to say 
and the experience it can provide.
As for Ms. Grays argument that profes
sional writing students are too busy worry
ing about getting a job when they shoudl be 
worrying about contributing to The Tartan,
I say, Poo. It is true that particular kinds 
of writing, like writing instructional 
manuals, are more lucrative than others; 
however, professional writing students do 
much more than write copy for the backs 
of shampoo bottles. In my short time at 
CMU, no one has given me an assignment 
for Prell. And if we professional writeres 
were to write shampoo copy, who is to say 
that that bit of prose is less important than 
The Tartan? I for one like to read a wellthought-out paragraph on the back of a 
shampoo bottle when I take a shower.
Ms. Gray makes The Tartan sound like 
a gold mine with no diggers. Its been my 
experience that diggers like to dig, so if she 
feels that professional writing students would 
improve The Tartan, she should figure out 
why were not flocking to the paper and ad
dress the issues rather than bemoaning the 
problem. In the meantime, I suggest she try 
bettering the paper with her given resources; 
its not too productive to whine about what 
you dont got.
Jennifer Jameson
Perplexing problems of department structure
by Richard M. Cyert
The question of the proper structure of 
departments and colleges in a university is 
a perplexing one. There are no simple 
guiding principles for determining how 
many colleges there should be and what 
i departments should be in each 
HH college. Our general position at 
this university has been to have 
^pP^ggsmaller units and to have more 
of them. For example, when we received the 
funds to organize a program in urban and 
public affairs, there was a great deal of 
debate on whether the program should be 
with GSIA or in a separate college. In ac
cordance with our general tendency, we 
opted for the separate college. Our College 
of Humanities and Social Sciences does not 
include the pure sciences, as is the case in 
most universities. Engineering and science 
were in one college until they were split in 
1970.
These questions become even more com
plicated when considering a new field such 
as computer science. Orginally computer 
science was in the Systems and Communica
tions program at Carnegie-Mellon and was 
eventually made into a department. After 
a great deal of debate, it was decided to put 
the department in the Mellon College of 
Science, although there were good 
arguments for placing it in Carnegie In
stitute of Technology. In some institutions 
the department is in the Department of 
Electrical Engineering and Computer 
Science. In still others computer science has 
changed its organizational structure over the 
course of time.
Many faculty members in our Depart
ment of Computer Science have not felt 
comfortable within Mellon College of 
Science for some time. There has been 
discussion about a reorganization and a 
relocation of the department going back to 
the period when Daniel Berg was dean of 
the college. I did not act to change the struc
ture because I did not see any particular 
gain to the university from such action at the 
time.
We have raised the issue again because of 
changes in the development of computer 
science at the university. After a number of
discussions involving key people, we have 
had the issue debated extensively in the 
Faculty Senate and in three sessions that 
were sponsored by the Faculty Senate, to 
which all members of the faculty were in
vited. I have either attended, read the pro
ceedings of, or have been briefed on each 
of these sessions. Many of you are advising 
that we keep our structure as it is. The argu
ment is that the department is doing well 
under the current organizational ar
rangements and that there are no good 
reasons to change. I respect this view and 
acknowledge it may well be right in the long 
run.
However, in my opinion, there are two 
reasons for experimenting with the Depart
ment of Computer Science as a free-standing 
department. The first reason relates to 
education. I want to see the use of computers 
spread throughout all departments in the 
university. I do not want to have computer 
science viewed as the province of a particular 
college. I want departments free to have ma
jor concentrations in computer science 
within their particular disciplines. I think 
that psychologically this objective is easier 
to achieve if computer science does not 
belong to a college, given the willingness of 
the Department of Computer Science to collabrate on educational programs with all 
areas of the university.
The second reason relates to the future of 
the discipline. The field of computer science 
is continuing to develop and is changing 
with new knowledge. The development of 
the field makes it unclear as to where it is 
headed. I firmly believe that removing some 
of the current role in the field. We were one 
of the first to establish computer science as 
a department, and I believe that the 
development of the field at this institution 
was helped considerably by having an of
ficial department organization. While it is 
not obvious that the some results will follow 
by making computer science a free-standing 
department, I think that there is a good 
chance that our giving it the freedom to 
develop faster.
In any event, my reasoning leads me to 
deviate from the advice that many of you 
have given me on this issue. I hope that you
will understand my reasons, as I believe I 
understand yours and the advice that you 
have given me. This decision is in the nature 
of an experiment even though I cannot give 
precise criteria for the success or failure of 
the experiment. I believe that within a 
reasonable period of time we will know 
whether of not we wish to continue with this 
structure. The reorganization must not af
fect either the revenue going to the four 
departments remaining in the Mellon Col
lege of Science of the current budget in the 
Department of Computer Science.
I want to have the Department of Com
puter Science report to Patrick Crecine. This 
move will help to equalize, somewhat, the 
reporting relationships of the academic units 
between the provost and the senior vice 
president for academic affairs. If should be 
understood that since the provost has respon
sibility for research in the university, he will 
continue to interact with the department.
I have asked Patrick Crecine and Angel 
Jordan to form a council, consisting of the 
head of the Department of Computer 
Science, the director of the SEI, the direc
tor of the ITC, and the vice president for 
computing and information services. Patrick 
Crecine and Angel Jordan will alternate in 
chairing this committee with Angel Jordan 
as chairman for the first year.
The official date of separation of the 
Department of Computer Science from the
Opinion Policy
The Editorial appearing at the beginning 
of the opinion section is the official opinion 
of The Tartan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual 
authors who are not necessarily on The Tar
tan Editorial Board or Staff 
Letters to the Editor are opinions of in
dividual authors who are usually members 
of the University community. A letter in
tended for publication must be signed and 
include the writers address and phone 
number for verification. Names will be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
Mellon College of Science is October 1, 1985, 
and all necessary budget adjustments will be 
made as of this date. Specifications of 
necessary administrative procedures and 
organizational arrangements associated with 
this change are being made. When they are 
completed, I will brief the academic deans 
and department heads and the Faculty 
Senate. I will make certain that these pro
cedures are consistent with university policy 
and particularly with our policies on reap
pointment, promotion, and tenure.
It is crucial for all of us that we continue 
to make the same phenomenal progress in 
computer science within the university in the 
next few years that we have in the past few. 
This move is designed to achieve that end. 
Success requires the cooperation of everyone, 
and I am confident that, as always, we will 
get that cooperation.
Thel^rtan.
Editor-in-Chief ... Christopher D. Lewis
Managing Editor............Mohan Embar
Business Manager ...John Friedmann
News Editor ........................Karen Gray
Entertainment Editor ...Anthony Datri
Features Editor.....Christy Casamassima
Sports Editor............Bonnie Jacobson
Photography Editor...........Olve Peersen
Dossier Editor .................Michele Keane
Art Manager..................Mike Sussman
Ad Manager ....................Celeste Clark
Production Manager ... Katrin Wesner 
Typesetting Manager ..Kathryn Sitter
Asst. Art Manager.........Mark Kissner
Asst. Typesetting Mngr. Paul Rydzewski
Contributing Editors: Neal Johnston, Ric 
Medrow, Stephen Volan.
Copyright 1985 by The Tartan. The Editorial Board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication any copy 
it deems unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: Skibo 
50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo 52. (412) 
578-2112, 578-2113. 24 hour phone, (412) 578-2111. 
Mailing address: Skibo 103, Carnegie-Mellon Univer
sity, Pittsburgh, PA 15213.
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. 
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

SCHEDULE CHANGE
TRADING PLACES
Originally scheduled 
for Sunday, October 
IS at 6, 8, 10, and 12 
has been rescheduled
It will be shown 
Sunday October IB
and
Monday October 14
at 8pm and 10pm only. 
Still Doherty Hall 2210Still only $1.00

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements
President's Office Hours. Richard M. Cyert will 
have open office hours for students from 3:30 pm 
to 5:30 pm, in his office, 602 Warner Hall on 
Wednesday, October 9. Students who wish to 
meet with the president should telephone his 
secretary, 578-2200, to set up an appointment.
Classifieds
S Vinyl Padded Chairs with arms $5. Lounge fur2 niture with black metal legs and walnut trim: 
 single chair $20, two cushion sofa $30, three 
B cushion sofa $50. Contact the placement office, 
B Warner Hall Room 19, x2094.
Authorized Designers for Alandel International 
(ADAI) offers a unique design team trained in 
the Total Fashion Concept incoporating Hi-Tech 
hair design, make-up, and clothing coordination 
to body and bone structures. Mon., Tue., Wed.,
& Sat. walk-ins only. $15.00 includes shampoo, 
cut, style, make-up, and bone structure analysis 
for men and women. 1st come, 1st serve. Appoint
ments available at regular prices with the designer 
of your choice. Mon.Fri. 10 a.m.6 p.m., Sat. 
10 a.m.-3 p.m. ADAI Productions 930 Penn. Ave. 
downtown Pittsburgh.
512K Upgrade For Macintosh only $250. In
cludes 1 yr. W#to?5i Call 362-6104 for info.
Over 50 Brands of audio, video, and car stereo 
equipment. Contact Hal at 683-3948 after 6 p.m.
Events
8
Tuesday
Movies
Macbeth, starring Jon Finch, 
f Francesca Annis, Martin Shaw. An imaginative 
I but graphic version of Shakespeares tragedy with 
I bold imagery and fine pacing. Rated R. PittsI burgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 10 pm. Admission 
[ $2.95.
Sports
I Womens Tennis home game against Grove City 
I College at 3 pm.
RecreationI Tai Chi Exercises. Experience the four-hundred- I year-old Chinese exercise. Skibo 12, 2 pm to 3:30 
I pm. Free for students and faculty members.
ClubsI Pittsburgh GO Group. GO is an ancient orien| tal game of strategy offering simple rules and 
I many levels of complexity of play. Skibo 13, 7 pm. 
I Beginners welcome.
Lectures
I Needs, Resources and Design, by Ezra 
I Ehrenkrantz of the Ehrendrantz group. Presented 
I by the Department of Arhitecture. Wean Hall 
7500, 8 pm.
Fiction & Poetry 
The Tuesday Night Readings. Marc Selvaggio 
L reads poetry. Marty Levine reads fiction. The 
Back Room, Hemingways Cafe, Forbes Ave, 
Oakland, 8:30 pm. Everyone welcome.
Aimee. About a director who is trying to film a 
new project. Fellinis greatest effort. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 10 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Sports
Soccer home game against Marietta College at 
3:30 pm.
Womens Volleyball home game against Hiram 
College at 6 pm.
Recreation
La Table Franaise, the French language table. 
Morewood Dining Room, 12 pm. Everyone 
welcome.
ClubsAIESEC, an international, student-run business 
organization, offers a world of experience, both 
practical and cultural. Skibo 11, 4:30 pm. 
Everyone welcome.
10
Thursday
Movies
9
Wednesday
Movies
SVi, directed by Federico Fellini 
and starring Marcello Mastroianni, Anouk
Are you considering professional school?
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
JOHN F. KENNEDY 
SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT
Is Looking for Future Leaders in Public Affairs.
Come Learn About Harvards Two-Year Master's 
Program in Public Policy, Leading to either 
the Master in Public Policy or 
City and Regional Planning Degree.
JUDY KUGEL
*iiI StIud Djrector of Career Services
eUIid Monday, Oct. 21, 12-1, 1-2 groups
CONTACT: YOUR CAREER PLACEMENT OFFICE
All Students, All Majors, All Years Welcome!Joint Degree Programs Offered with 
Harvard's other Professional Schools.Generous Cross-Registration Privileges ivith other Schools.
Acme.
Resident Manager Responsible person to work 
in a supervised apartment with mentally retard
ed adults, overnight hours, Sunday-Thursday, 
9:00 p.m.-9:00 a.m.; Typical sleep hours, 
midnight-6:00 a.m. Hourly wage plus a room. 
Please send resumes to CL A, Southwest Com
munities MH/MR Centers, 2129 Broadway Ave., 
Pittsburgh, PA 15216
Private Violin Instruction available from CMU 
Masters student. BFA 84. Reasonable rates. Flex
ible Scheduling. For more information call C. 
Grove 683-3658.
$60.00 Per Hundred Paid for remailing letters 
from home! Send self-addressed stamped envelope 
for information/application. Associates, Box 
95-B, Roselle, NJ 07203
Help Wanted: House cleaner needed.
Twice/month, Saturdays to clean thoroughly and 
do laundry. Call 687-9251 between 7-9 p.m. or 
weekends.
Relief Resident Advisor: Part time staff needed 
immediately to work in a supervised apartment 
program with mentally retarded adults. All shifts. 
South Hills area. Hourly rate $4.00. Please send 
resumes to CLA, Southwest Communities 
MH/MR Centers, 2129 Broadway Ave., Pitt
sburgh, PA 15216
Meddy: Quit blowing off!!
Pittsburgh Guitars- We buy, sell, & trade used 
and vintage guitars. 4806 Liberty, Bloomfield, 
across from West Penn Hospital. 621-4733.
year-old Chinese exercise. Skibo 12, 2 pm to 3 pm. 
Free for students and faculty members.
ClubsCMU Investment Club. Learn how to invest and 
manage a real portfolio. Skibo 11, 6:30 pm. 
Everyone welcome.
CMU Explorers Club plans rock-climbing, 
kayaking, caving, hiking, and more. Skibo 11, 8 
pm. Beginners welcome.
LecturesUnderstanding Jealousy and Envy, by Peter 
Salovey of Yale University. Presented by the 
Department of Psychology at CMU. Baker Hall 
136-B, 4 pm. For more information call 578-2781.
11
Friday
Movies
The Falcon and the Snowman,star
ring Sean Penn, Timothy Hutton. About two 
young men who decide to sell U.S. secrets to the 
Russians and who are convicted as traitors in 1977. 
Based on a true story. Rated R. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:45 pm, Admission $2.95.
Touch of Evil. Doherty Hall 2210, 6 pm, 8 pm, 
10 pm. Admission $1.
Plays
Baby with the Bathwater, by Christopher 
Durang. A humorous look at parenthood. City 
Theatre Company, South Bouquet St. in 
Oakland, 8 pm. For more information call 
624-4101.
RecreationDeutscher Stammtisch, the German language 
table. Morewood Dining Room, 12pm. Everyone 
welcome.
Tai Chi Exercise. Experience the four-hundredLiquid Sky, starring Anne Carlisle. 
A science fiction fantasy about aliens who land 
in New York City and attach themselves to a New 
Wave fashion model. Rated R. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm, 11:30 pm. Admis
sion $2.95.
Bedknobs and Broomsticks. Doherty Hail 2210, 
6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm, 12 am. Admission $1. 
Plays
Baby with the Bathwater. See Thursday, Oc
tober 10 for details.
comic moments. Rated PG. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm, 11:30 pm. Admis
sion $2.95.
All of Me. Doherty Hall 2210, 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 
pm, 12 am. Admission $1.
Plays
Baby with the Bathwater. See Thursday, Oc
tober 10 for more information. Show times are 
now 2 pm and 7 pm.
Sports
lartan Football away game against Grove City 
College at 1:30 pm.
Mens and Women's Cross-Country invitational 
at Fairmont State, 11 pm.
Soccer home game against Grove City College at 1 pm.
Womens Field Hockey away game against 
Bethany College at 11 am.
Womens Tennis away game against John Car
roll University at 1 pm.
13
Sunday
Movies
12JLJ
Saturday
Movies
Monty Python and the Holy Grail,
starring John Cleese, Terry Gilliam, and the Mon
ty Python Comedy troupe. A madcap reworking 
of the King Arthur legend with some outrageous
Pride and Prejudice, starring 
Laurence Olivier, Greer Garson, Mary Boland, 
Edmund Gwenn, Edna May Oliver. Superb film 
about five husband-seeking sisters in 19th Cen
tury England. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 
9:40 pm. Admission $2.95.
Trading Places. Doherty Hall 2210, 6 pm, 8 pm, 
10 pm, 12 am. Admission $1.
MusicThe Pittsburgh Symphony. Michael Lankester 
conducts Mozart, Kolb, Debussy, and Janacek. 
Guest Artist Jeffrey Siegal at piano. Heinz Hall, 
600 Penn Ave., 2:30 pm. For more information 
call 392-4821.
PUT YOUR DEGREE TO WORK 
WITH U. S. PEACE CORPS
HEALTH ARCHITECTURE PHYSICS - MATH 
CIVIL ENGINEERING CHEMISTRY - BIOLOGY 
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AGRICULTURE - FORESTRY 
NUTRITION - EDUCATION
Seniors contact the Career Services,
Warner Hall Room 19, 
For Applications and Interview Appointments
Recruiters Will be on Carnegie Campus 
October 9, 1985
MEETING, OPEN TO ALL 
film, Information and 
Discussion 
With Returned Peace Corps Volunteers 
OCTOBER 8, 7 to 9 PM 
Skibo, Room 11
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE

---------------------------------------------------

Monday
Movies
The Seven Samurai, starring 
Toshiro Mifune, Takashi Shimura. A classic film 
about a Japanese village that hired professional 
warriors to fight off a gang of bandits. This is the 
.incut version. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Recreation Mid-Semester Break: No classes!
ClubsA Phi O meets in Skibo Wherrett Room at 7 pm.
Tuesday
Movies
A Hard Days Night, starring the 
Beatles, Wilford Brambell. Fifteen Beetles songs 
are featured in this delightful film. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
RecreationTai Chi Exercises. Experience the four-hundredyear-old Chinese exercise. Skibo 12, 2 pm to 3:30 
pm. Free for students and faculty members. 
Sportsline, a weekly sports interview call-in talk 
show on WRCT 88.3 FM. 8:30 pm to 9 pm. 
ClubsPittsburgh GO Group. GO is an ancient orien
tal game of strategy offering simple rules and 
many levels of complexity of play. Skibo 13, 7 pm. 
Beginners welcome.
LecturesThe Inside View, by Gregory Landahl, Principal 
of the Landahl Group, Inc., Chicago. Presented 
by the Department of Architecture. Wean Hall 
7500, 8 pm.
Fiction 8c Poetry 
The Tuesday Night Readings. John Latchaw 
reads poetry. Mike Guzzi reads fiction. The Back 
Room, Hemingways Cafe, Forbes Ave, Oakland, 
8:30 pm. Everyone welcome.
Wednesday
Movies
The Return of Martin Guerre,
starring Gerard Depardieu, Nathalie Baye. In a 
16th century village, a man leaves his wife, disap
pears, then returns. But is the man who returns 
her husband or an imposter? Pittsburgh 
Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Sports
Soccer home game against Alliance College at
3:30 pm.
RecreationLa Table Franaise, the French language table. 
Morewood Dining Room, 12 pm. Everyone 
welcome.
ClubsAIESEC, an international, student-run business 
organization, offers a world of experience, both 
practical and cultural. Skibo 11, 4:30 pm. 
Everyone welcome.
Orthodox Christian Fellowship. Bible study and 
discussion group. Skibo 39, 7 pm to 8 pm. 
Everyone welcome.
Community Events 
University Libraries Book Sale. Inexpensive 
books in all subjects. Hunt Library Lobby, 8:30 
am to 5 pm.
Thursday
Movies
Aguirre, the Wrath of God, starr- , 
ing Klaus Kinski, Helena Rujo. about a Spanish 
quest for the lost city of El Dorado. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
The Big Heat. Doherty Hall 2210, 6 pm, 8 pm,
10 pm. Admission $1.
Plays
Baby with the Bathwater. See Thursday, Oc
tober 10 for more information.
MusicMusic Department Convocation, featuring 
Lionel Young and Wendy Bobbit performing the 
Beethoven Piano Sonata in B-flat major. Alum
ni Concert Hall, 12:30 pm. For more informa
tion call 578-2372.
RecreationDeutscher Stammtisch, the German language 
table. Morewood Dining Room, 12pm. Everyone 
welcome.Tai Chi Exercise. Experience the four-hundredyear-old Chinese exercise. Skibo 12, 2 pm to 3 pm.
Free for students and faculty members.
ClubsCMU Investment Club. Learn how to invest and 
manage a real portfolio. Skibo 11, 6:30 pm. 
Everyone welcome.
CMU Explorers Club plans rock-climbing, 
kayaking, caving, hiking, and more. Skibo 11, 8 
pm. Beginners welcome.
Community Events 
University Libraries Book Sale. Inexpensive 
books in all subjects. Hunt Library Lobby, 8:30 
am to 5 pm.
Friday
Movies
Harold and Maude, starring Ruth 
Gordon, Bud Cort, Vivian Pickles. A comedy cult 
classic about a young man and his 7 9-year old 3 , 
girlfriend. Cat Stevens did the fine soundtrack. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. 11:30 
pm. Admission $2.95.
Plays
Baby with the Bathwater. See Thursday, Oc
tober 10 for more information.
Community Events 
University Libraries Book Sale. Inexpensive 
books in all subjects. Hunt Library Lobby, 8:30 
am to 5 pm.
150th Birthday of Andrew Carnegie.    = * Saturday
Movies
Amadeus starring F. Murray 
Abraham (Oscar winner), Tom Hulce. Sensa
tional adaptation of Peter Shafers play about a 
composer whose jealousy helps destroy Mozart. 
Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 10:15 pm. Admission $2.95.
Country. Doherty Hall 2210, 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 
pm, 12 am. Admission $2.95.
Plays
Baby with the Bathwater. See Thursday, Oc
tober 10 for more information. Show times are  
now 2 pm and 7 pm.
Sports
Tartan Football Homecoming game against 
Washington and Jefferson College at 2 pm.
Sunday
Movies
The Philadelphia Story, starring 
Katherine Hepburn, Jimmy Stewart (Oscar win
ner), Cary Grant. The finest American comedy 
of manners ever put on film. Rich Tracy Lord  
must choose from a snob fiancee, an ex-husband, 
and a reporter. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 
9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Monday
Movies
Pink Floyd - The Wall, A film 
version of a Pink Floyd rock album about the 
mental breakdown of a rock star. Rated R. Pitt
sburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
At National you can rent a car if you're 18 
or older, have a valid driver's license, current student I.D. and cash deposit. Stop 
by to fill out qualification form at least 24- hours in advance. You pay for gas used 
and return car to renting location. We also accept most major credit cards.
NATIONAL Spelling fee Champ. Mother NATIONAL 
Honor <xdty and Captain NATIONAL Debate Team 
trying to think cP an economical way heme.
* Weekend rate available noon Thursday through Monday. Certain daily minimums apply.Rates will be slightly lower for drivers over 25.
We feature GM cars 
like this Chevrolet Chevette.
Non-discountable rate applies to this or similarsize car and is subject to change without notice. 
Specific cars subject to availability.
Call for details.
jsr National Car Rental
Carnegie-Mellon deserves National attention.
Available at:
434 Boulevard of the Allies 261-5500 
4621 Forbes Avenue (Oakland) 682-1444 
3950 Wm. Penn Highway (Monroeville) 372-1667
Fifth Aiken Apartments
5405-15 Fifth Ave., Shadyside
Make your next apartment home at the very best 
location in Shadyside. The Fifth Aiken Apartments 
are located at the corner of Fifth Avenue and 
South Aiken Avenue one block from Walnut 
Street and'Shadyside shopping. Our newly 
decorated modern efficiency, one bedroom and 
two bedroom apartments have all utilities paid 
(except electric in two bedroom units). Excellent 
security featuring Bell Telephone intercom 
systems. New Maytag washers and dryers are 
located in the building for your convenience.
Private off street parking and garages are 
available. Many apartments have large stone 
balconies. A private screened sun bathing area is 
available. Special fire proof and sound proof 
construction as well as smoke and fire alarms
add to your safety and convenience. Your Utilities: Efficiency and all one bedrooms included; two
resident manager lives on the premises. Enjoy bedrooms with and without electricity.
Our great new landscape featuring native trees, Rental Terms: One month plus $100 security deposit; one
shrubs and flowers that will brighten your day year minimum lease; no children or pets allowed,
and impress your guests. Public transportation is Public Transportation: At door; corner of Fifth and Aiken;
right at the door. Welcome to Shadyside living at Fifth Ave Buses-its best! Directions: Fifth Avenue to Corner of South Aiken.
^bedroom.....................................*379 to $409 Rental Agent: Concept Development Corporation
2-bedroom..................................... 449 to 509 5405 Fifth Ave.Pittsburgh, PA 15232 
(412) 441-4444

---------------------------------------------------

Silky's in SquirrelHill
Best Burgers, Pizza, Steaks! 
Tall Texas Drafts! 
DJ spinning oldies: Thu., Fri., Sat. 
$1.00 Import Night, Tues. 
Darts! Shuffleboard!
Open Sunday 2701 Murray Ave.
Mon.-Sun. Morrowfields Aps.
3 p.m.-2 a.m. (Near Poli's) ______ _ _ Great Fun!
Coupon
Worth 20% off Food Check 5-9 PM'
Women's 
Health Services.
FREE PREGNANCY TESTING
OaklandRm. 212, 3520 Forbes Ave. 
Downtown3rd floor, 107 6th St.
 ABORTION SERVICES
 BIRTH CONTROL & GYNE CARE
For Your WHS SURVIVAL KIT, Fill Out & Mail Coupon To: 
Women's Health Services, 107 6th St., Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
Telephone: (412) 562-1900
WHS Survival Kit
Name 
Streets 
City _State_2ip
College (if student) _________________________
Mail to: WHS, 107 6th St., Pittsburgh, PA 15222
froo walk-ln tutoring program 
och wok
pontoied by Student Affato and I gnti tuenf Development Ctrttr In Moiiwood Gardent, I fowec Hftt
1 -10pm
I coteukPH -126A
mm Pie 1, II, ill
PhysicsPH - 126B
ChemistryPH -225B
111 English as aBH -135B
second language
EconomicsPH-226B
*** Intro to ComputingWEH-5415
Hi' Financial AccountingPH-226C
fPP Academic Writing ProblemsBH - 235B
Counseling and Student Development Center* 
Presents Workshops
Food For Thought
A thoughtful look at the meaning of food on self-esteem and health. 
4 Mondays from 4:30-5:30 p.m., begins October 21, 1985.
Study Smarter
Learn how to study more effectively with a variety of techniques. 4 
Thursdays from 4:00-5:00 p.m., begins October 24, 1985.
Managing Stress
Learn how to cope with academic and personal pressures. 4 Thursdays 
from 4:00-5:00 p.m., begins October 24, 1985.
Surviving Shyness
Learn how to enhance your ability to relate to others. 4 Mondays from 
4:30-6:00, begins October 21, 1985.
Families In Transition
A workshop for students whose parents are separated or divorced. 
4 Tuesdays from 3:30-5:00 p.m., begins October 22, 1985.
For information and registration: Phone Ext. 2922 or sign up at MG, 
E Tower, Room 103
* Division of Student Affairs
Join us at the
Fall Student Phonathon and
WIN
A
TRIP!!!
Individual who raises the most money wins:
The phonathons will give you the 
opportunity to:
1. Call alumni within your major and 
discuss future careers.
2. The Fraternities and Sororities 
will be able to call your alumni to 
encourage them to come back 
for Homecoming.
3. Help the University raise money 
to improve the campus and help 
the financial aid money.
4. HAVE FUN!
2 roundtrip tickets on USAir to Fort Louderdole plus $200 
spending money.
Compliments of USAIr and World Wise 
Travel.
Individual who gets the most number of alumni to increase their gift wins:
2 roundtrip tickets on Eastern Airlines for any domestic 
destination.
Compliments of Eastern Airlines and Forbes 
Travel.
 Holiday restrictions exist on both trips
Prizes for groups:
SI00 for the group who raises the most money 
SI00 for the group with the highest average gift
Two groups within each of the following categories will 
receive a prize
1 Greeks
2 Dorms
3 Other Organizations
Each night phoners will receive pizza, a free long distance 
call and the top four individuals who raise the most 
money will receive a CMU sweatshirt
Phonathons start September 23 and run through October31
Schedule
6 00 p m Meet at Phonathon Room 3rd Floor. SOI 7
Forbes (house on Forbes in the middle of the 
fraternities)
6 30 Briefing Session 
6 4S 9 00 Phoning
Reserve your space now. as a group or an individual Con
tact the CMU Fund Office. x202l. S0I7 Forbes Avenue
yOT X THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS 
Students of All Majors and Fields Are Invited
to hear about our M.B.A., Ph.D., and combined degree programs. We 
will hold several group information sessions on your campus to answer 
questions about the curriculum, admission, financial aid, and career 
opportunities in management.
Wednesday, October 16, 1985 
Contact Career Services & Placement for sign-ups
Special study options include the International Business Exchange Pro
gram, and joint-degree programs as follows: M.B.A./A.M. in Far East
ern studies, Latin American studies, Middle Eastern studies, library 
science, and social service administration; M.B.A./J.D. with the Law 
School; and M.B.A./M.D. with the Pritzker School of Medicine.
As an introduction, we are offering 
a 25% discount to all students and 
employees of Carnegie-Mellon University.
ARTHUR BERMAN
DOCTOR OF CHIROPRACTIC
4606 WINTHROP STREET BY APPOINTMENT ONLY 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15213 (412)687-1112
Insure your health through 
chiropractic spinal care

---------------------------------------------------

Funnies.
Zurkby Nabil Liumang
WovJ , now vJc. c^\ h-ave 
Cor>ve*"5a4i.owS ^^Oovj\. tuBdet5 
Ule*. 5noerrdga oo<Xy oor
borivn,^ proz.SSorS e\n d 4lac
heft..
Murray The Bearby Jimbo Voorhees
uMOHl iBzesmLLm pwLLa Bfh 
KcbUvub() pvvD KV)vlVu
i eotdp atg3iAh b msr
xkL.m BREAKFAST/^"-' -_V  
OF CHAMPIOM^'" ' X o
/ ' -  'Orff 11
A
\\v
Vs/as
Poindexterby Don Beyer
THe pA^.r n
fze^uwe Iun
AtTivyirie^ 4E1LBrW
yv Jt pp-eei/w^
A 0\s? \ P^pepeViutNj^

^oonIp^ lAApf 
po&yi^ T IT?
X (^c SS___
I ^ yOU T~
TO
SruNTfw*^.' I
Nollem Eigenracby Mike McHugh & Co.

---------------------------------------------------

October 8, 1985The TartanPage 27
a
BLOOM COUNTY
StudentDormitoryCouncil
by Berke Breathed
ywveH&w, CFCouRse, mroLNeR *m>oL 
joues ts mptaw 
Q'AAndyo comr wtn you 
ouitme uQe n'iuQaa b?*Hr
wftmep/m, potute? Tar cotter! wmAu.ee mm 
1VMMmN6"
L
SO-SO UTHE TIME LEFT/
FROM HeRE ON IMANTMEALS 
OF KECREM/ENPUSS
weete n'uQor
6069 OF unse
splev cIeMtvR wvjenm 
MeMeeAeMawes., arenas.
mm
~H-HeLP'? 
NO, NO.. 
W PONT
MBAN...
IMF'SRtHT.
/
'AcmotM Ltrne me
HAS SURFACBP AMONG THE
ApJ'A MpMLA'Je uQeie 
Q'o neev Noncep ' 
suene oevoe pcaaa
Q
HVK/0/..66T THIS POWN: 'MMM S&K5Mm. tnSfwi
mdopy.
u'At sQpyN THfiT?
FAT r..
Inkspotsby Kurt Shaw
six lpvuQoaamrs 
ALI MF AHP THIS WORLP 
HAVE LEFT. SIX MONTHS 
TO UVE A UFETVAE 
ANP SO MUCH 
-LEFT TO PO/Tmtmmf,
0PUS8WY.
MADAM.. SURELY YOU MJLPN'THfiNZAfVOR,yam eTN srfE pemH
wrmr FIRST HouuumTtwtom&teET,mumtwrr ,OF A MMMIWm?
1XSB2ZSZL
' - SMACK ! f iMfcK' -*Mctr'rOx
Jffij
YOU CfiNlftKZ MBmi, com ddooo mcuewm **
Humum/ lrR wo
I MANY
/ ^=rv *SHIRLEY
Teme
COCKTAILS*
ss:
JUMPIN' JGHOSAfWT / 
STRUCK POWN WITH AMNESIA 
ANP NOW POQMEP 0 
HAUEY'5 COMET..WHAT 
A FNS PREPtCAMBNT 
TM IN...
How Primitive !
10 CUT LARGE PIZZA * & 2 LITER PEPSI
$3.50
pizzT
?Sm^tE5!
_ J&C ' *
^________681-2202 or 681-2203

---------------------------------------------------

So the 
college students 
asked, Is there a 
company that has leading 
edge technologies, 
progressive management, 
a stimulating work 
environment and 
challenging opportunities 
in preferred locations?
And we said, 
Meet Honeywell.
Technical students are invited to meet Honeywell Representatives at the following upcoming events:
HONEYWELL INTERVIEWS
FRIDAY OCTOBER 18 AND THURSDAY OCTOBER 31, 1985
Together, we can find the answers
Honeywell
