The Tartan
Volume 80,Number 22 Carnegie Mellon University April 22, 1986
CMUs
Tuition 
recommendations 
and reasons
By DRUE MILLER
Tartan Staffwriter
On April 4, the Carnegie Mellon tuition com
mittee released its final report. The committee 
recommended that tuition for the 87-88 year 
be set at $11,100, an increase of 8.3% over 
the 86-87 tuition of $10,250. The proposed in
crease was based on the impact of the GrammRudman Act, as well as projected inflation rates 
over the next two years.
Gramm-Rudman calls for a 30 - 50% reduc
tion of federal-sponsored financial aid and 
research funding by 1987. Earle Swank, com
mittee chairman, explained that Carnegie 
Mellon is protecting itself against any drastic 
cuts; with the 8.3% increase, financial aid 
(which accounts for about 16% of tuition 
revenue) will still be available to all eligible 
students.
Projected inflationary rates for 1987 are 
around 7%. However, Swank anticipates even 
higher rates, having watched the stock markets 
recently. He also sees the possibility of infla
tion soaring as a result of current international 
affairs. Historically, inflation has gone up 
dramatically during wartime, and Swank sees 
I a very real risk of greater military involvement 
I under current U.S. policy. Again, Carnegie 
Mellon is protecting itself by havihg an increase 
above inflation.
Two other options were discussed in the com
mittee meetings. The first of these, the High Tui
tion Strategy, calls for a significant increase over 
inflation; tuition would have been raised 
10-12% The committee rejected this because 
it was too high; the percentage of increase has 
1 been decreasing since 83-84s highest increase
I of 18.9%.I -The second alternative, the Low Tuition ApA Prach, was also rejected. LTA called for a 
I 2-4% increase. This was seen as too minimal 
I an increase, involving too much sacrifice in the 
I quality of programs, faculty, facilities and 
H physical improvements. Also, LTA could have 
| risked cuts in available financial aid. More 
students might apply if tuition were lower, but 
Swank sees no evidence that low tuition at
tracts better students. Figures released by ad
missions show both quantity and quality of ap
plicants have increased in recent years, in spite 
of rising costs.
The 8.3% increase is still subject to change, 
however. Swank, committee member Fred 
Rogers, and the three students on the commit
tee will meet with Student Senate tonight to 
discuss the increase, and on May 9th President 
Cyert will ask for recommendations from all 
department deans, faculty leaders, and student 
leaders. Swank anticipates a lot of concern over 
continuing increases, but doesn't foresee serious 
disagreements, primarily because the recom
mendation came out of better understanding 
within the committee: extensive data was 
Prepared and distributed to all committee 
members well in advance of their first meeting, 
and very thorough final reports were released 
* student and faculty leaders last week.
Selling the IBM way.....
Four Actors Jump Ship
....see page 21 
see Diversions
Three ATO brothers burned in buggy fire
By VUAY REDDY
Tartan News Editor
Three Alpha Tau Omega brothers were burn
ed when a fire erupted in their rented truck dur
ing Fridays buggy races. The driver, who was 
in the buggy, escaped injury.
The fire occurred at 12:40 while brothers 
were treating the buggy s wheels with hexane, 
an oily, flammable chemical.
The hexane leaked onto a radio and burst into 
flames and filled the truck with smoke. 
Paramedics were called and arrived at 12:43: 
six minutes later a second paramedic unit 
arrived.
Meanwhile, fraternity brothers pulled the 
buggy out of the truck so they could free the 
driver, Nevenka Bierny. It was at this time that 
the brothers were injured:
Junior James Angelo, age 21, is listed in stable 
condition in Mercy Hospital with burns to the 
legs, face, neck and right arm, covering 10 per
cent of his body.
Graduate Lee Andre is listed in satisfactory con
dition in West Penn Hospital with a burn on 
his right arm.
Senior Frank Lago received a burn on his hand. 
He was treated on the scene and released; he 
declined a ride to the hospital.
Fire extinguishers from Theta Xi and Pika 
were used to put out the fire before the flames, 
which were licking at the bottom of the truck, 
could reach the trucks gas tank. The Fire Mar
shal inspected the safety conditions of the re
maining trucks during Saturdays races.
Student Senate has $92,535 in reserve fund
By LISA MCANANY
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
In an executive session of Student Senate, the 
Funding and Recognition Committee informed 
the Senators that there is a $92,535 sum 
available for use in a reserve fund.
The Senate maintains this reserve fund so that 
it can meet the increasing costs of student ac
tivities without raising the activities fee every 
year. This year, because of the amount of 
money that was allocated to student organiza
tions, Senate accumulated a $22,000 deficit. 
The money to rectify the deficit came out of the 
reserve fund.
The deficit is largely the result of new clubs 
seeking funding from Senate. According to 
Tamal Mukheijee, Chairman of the Senates Fun
ding and Recognition Committee, at least eight 
new clubs asked for funding this semester. 
Mukheijee expects to see a similar increase next 
semester. In the past, when no reserve funds 
were available, Senate was forced to restrict or 
cut funding of existing organizations by as much 
as 10%. Establishing a reserve fund was seen 
as a means of countering these financial 
restrictions.
The decision to keep the reserve fund within 
the confines of Senate was made in order to give 
the Senate an opportunity to consider its options 
with regards to the fund.
During the session, a resolution was introduc
ed requiring the Funding and Recognition Com
mittee to present Senates options in the form 
of a formal proposal by September 15, 1986
for allocating the money. Senators Peter Cohen 
and Todd Giles introduced the resolution. It was 
subsequently passed, with 16 Senators voting 
in favor, none against and one abstaining. We 
will definitely be looking for student input before 
any kind of final decision is made, said Cohen, 
the recently elected Chairman of Student 
Senate. All hearings on the issue will take place 
during the open Senate meetings on Tuesday 
nights, at which all students are welcome.
Student Senate has three basic options for 
allocating the sum: immediately spend it; invest 
it, or maintain the current situation. If the
money is spent immediately, the activities fee 
will have to increase in order to support the 
Senates funding of clubs and organizations. In
vesting the money is the most complex option. 
It would allow the reserve fund to build up even 
more, further postponing the date when the ac
tivities fee must be raised. But investment might 
constrain the Senates ability to make immediate 
allocations. Maintaining the current situation 
would allow Senate to continue over-allocating 
money to clubs requesting funding. Once the 
fund is seriously depleted, the activities fee will 
be raised again.
Four alumni protest DoD link
Barbara Bosson is one of four
By Vijay Reddy
Tartan News Editor 
Actor Charles Haid of TV 's Hill Street Blues 
is one of four Carnegie Mellon alumni who pull
ed out of Carnegie Salutes Carnegie in pro
test to the universitys ties with the Defense 
Department (DoD). Haid says the four have 
great affection and love for Carnegie Mellon 
but they could not in good conscience par
ticipate in the event. Carnegie Mellon has a 
$103 million contract with the DoD to do soft
ware research for them.
Haid called Professor Wolfenstein and ask
ed about the defense contract. Wolfenstein said, 
I told him what I knew about the SEI (Soft
ware Engineering Institute]. My impression was 
that he did not know what to do about it (but] 
he rejected saying something at the perforcontinued on page 2

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanAprii 22, 1986World NewsFrom AP Wire
The F-lll is reported to be recovered by Libyans
There is a report from the Middle East that 
the wreckage of an American warplaneand 
the bodies of its two crewmen lost in the raid 
on Libyahas been found.
Abu Dhabi's government-owned newspaper 
(Al-Ittihad) reports that wreckage of an F-lll 
warplane was recovered from the sea by Libyan 
military personnel with Soviet assistance. The 
report quotes unidentified Libyan sources.
It says the wreckage of the plane was flown 
to Moscow to be examined by Soviet experts, 
the bodies of the two U.S. airmen reportedly 
were taken to Tripoli, the capital of Libya.
The report cant be verified independently. 
Western diplomatic sources in Abu Dhabi 
dismissed it as unreliable, and sources at the 
Pentagon say they dont know anything about it.
Libya is paying $12 million/year to Abu Nidal
A West German newspaper is reporting more 
evidence of a direct Libyan connection to ter
rorism. The paper (Bild Am Sontag) reports 
Libyan leader Moammar Khadafy met with 
known terrorist Abu Nidal last year. And the 
paper says, they agreed that Abu Nidal's group
of terrorists would attack English, American, 
Israeli and Egyptian targets under the supervi
sion of the Libyan secret service. The article 
says British intelligence has found out that Libya 
has been paying 12 million dollars a year to the 
terrorist group.
Libya has a terrorist price list says paper
A West German weekly newspaper {Bild Am Sonntag) says Libya offers blood money for at
tacks on western targets. The publication today 
reports that Libya offers about S400 for a ter
rorist bombing, Si 200 for a machine gunning.
and up to Si2.000 for a suicide attack. The 
paper says the Libyan terrorist price list was 
discovered by Lebanese and Israeli intelligence 
agents.
American & French people support air strike
There is no shortage of American and French 
supporters of the US air strikes in Libya. A 
Newsweek'" magazine survey says nearly twothirds of the French asked approved of the US 
action. In the US, 71 percent of the respondents 
said they supported the raids. Less supportive 
were the British and West Germanswho disap
proved by as much as 75 percent.
Some of that opposition manifested itself in 
protests yesterday. In London, ten thousand 
people turned out for a sit-down protest at the 
US embassy. And near Frankfurt, West Ger
many, some of the fifteen hundred young pro
testers fired signal rockets into a US military 
compound. Nobody was hurt.
One of Khadafys sons remain in hospital
CARNEGIE MELLON ADMISSIONS COUNCIL
ATTENTION ... CLASS OF 86
With graduation starts a new phase of life - new jobs, new cities, 
new apartments, etc. You can still maintain a tie with the old by serving 
on the Carnegie Mellon Admissions Council (CMAC). The Admissions Staff 
is always looking for young alumni who can assist in recruiting and 
interviewing future Carnegie Mellon students nation-wide.
As an Alumni Advisor, you have two major responsibilities:
1. talking with students who have inquired/applied to the 
University,
2. representing Carnegie Mellon at various college fairs.
You choose the degree of involvement you wish. Serving as a volunteer for 
the Admissions Office is both an enjoyable and valuable way to server your 
future alma mater. The Admisssions Council presently consists of over 
500 active alumni. 
If you would like to become a part of this network, please complete 
the coupon and send it to: 
Kim Krieger 
Director, CMAC 
107 Warner Hall 
or stop by the Admissions Office when you have a chance.
CARNEGIE MELLON ADMISSIONS COUNCIL
NAME:_______________________________
LOCAL ADDRESS:____________________
MAJOR:
LOCAL PHONE #:
UPON GRADUATION, I WILL BE MOVING TO_
(CITY)
Gorbachev says summit possible this year
Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev is keeping 
alive the hope of a summit with President 
Reagan this year. But Gorbachevs warning the 
US to watch its step, unless it wants to jeopar
dize chances for a superpower summit. Gor
bachev, speaking to reporters in East Germany,
charged that recent US actions were poison
ing the atmosphere for a new summit. He 
didnt make specific charges, but its believed 
he was referring to the raid on Libya and re
cent US nuclear tests.
Libyan threat: Americans and English flee
More Americans have fled Sudan. A plane 
carrying about 130 Americans and other 
westerners landed in Kenya this morning. The 
evacuation follows the shooting of an embassy 
staff employee in Khartoum and reports of Li
byan threats against Americans in Sudan, 
Libyas southeastern neighbor.
Thrity-two British citizens cleared out of 
Moslem West Beirut this morning. Thats an 
area considered unsafe for westerners, especial
ly.in the wake of the US action against Libya. 
The British ambassador says an American, an 
Irishman and a New Zealander also were 
evacuated to East Beirut.
Libyan Ambassador wants to see the proof
Libyas Ambassador to the U.N. Sunday 
charged that the air raid against Libya w as aim
ed at civilian targets. In an interview on ABCs This Week With David Brinkley, Ali Treiki call
ed on the U.S. to reveal the evidence it claims
it has proving Libya supports terrorists.
On the same program, former Senator John 
Tower said the U.S. can't make such evidence 
public. Tower says, some things have to re
main classified to protect sources.
Irish Chambermaid is release by Scotland Yard
An Irish chambermaid has been released by 
police in London without being chargedtwo 
days after being arrested for trying to board an 
Israeli jetliner with a bomb hidden in her lug
gage. The police say they believe the woman 
was an unwitting pawn of her fiancea Palesti
nian. He remains in custody of Scotland Yard 
after being arrested Friday.
Women in Liechtenstein can now vote
tein voted Sunday to grant women the right to 
vote in local elections. Women won the right 
to vote in national elections in 1984.
A fewT tiny bastions of male chauvinism have 
yielded to womens suffrage. Three com
munities of the tiny principality of Liechtenslgster he identified as Khadafy" s three-yeSrpn. Tbjp doctQ; said another of Khadafy s 
had been treated and discharged. Libyan 
ia!s sa\ Khadafys infant daughter was 
d in the air raid.
Alumni protest SEI
continued from page 1
maee. Professor Wolfenstein referred Haid 
to Professor Depiarest.
Derriarest said, Haid called me late Thurs
day afternoon. He told me he was concerned 
about the defense connection. I put together a 
packet of materials which included Focus ar
ticles against SEI and Carnegie Magazine ar
ticles for SEI in an attempt to present both sides
One Way to
NEW YORK
Metro Area
Comfortable Greyhound Bus$30.00
Leaving May 9* at 10:00am 
Call 683-6257 between 6-9
of the issue.
After reviewing that information and talking 
with both the New York Times and the Union 
-of Concerned Scientists the four actors.irlecided that the only thing they could do was not per
form. Joining Haid in the boycott was. Robert 
F oxworth of the TV show Falcon Crest, Barbara 
Bosson, formerly of Hill Street Blues, Renee 
Auberjonois of Benson.
Get Your Belongings to
NEW YORK
Metro Area
40 Sq. Ft.-$60.00 
20 Sq. Ft.-$40.00
Call 683-6257 betv\en 6-9
TWO YEARS IN THE ARMY COULD GET YOUR CAREER ROLLING.
Todays job market is a real jungle. Everyone 
wants experience, but no ones willing to give it. The 
Armys different.
Consider this: if you invest just two years in the 
Army, you could come out with valuable experience 
in a skill of your choice.
The Army has a wealth of two-year skills to 
choose from. Skills in Armor, Engineering, Communications, and more. Many of these skills have 
civilian job applications. So you wont go into the 
interview empty-handed.
Dont stall. Take off in a new direction with a 
two-year Army enlistment. Call your local Army 
Recruiter for details.
361-2433
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE.

---------------------------------------------------

April 8, 1986The TartanPage 3National NewsPilot anti-terrorist classesso much garbage
Search for Challenger wreckage is winding down
Navy search vessels remain off the Florida 
coastbut theyre no longer looking for the re
mains of the Space Shuttle Challengers 
astronauts. NASA says that part of the search 
has ended, and that remains of all seven crew
members have been found and identified. The 
operation to recover the wreckage of Challenger 
continues, but officials say its rapidly winding 
down.
Some airline pilots give a failing grade to re
quired anti-terrorist classes. Braniff pilot Bill 
Burke told the Dallas Morning News that the 
training was an insult. He cites such advice 
as if you see someone with a gun coming down
the ramp, dont let them on the plane. The 
Federal Aviation Administration requires the 
anti-terrorist training, which one instructor 
dismisses as so much garbage. 
Government investigates Michael Deaver
Marcos denies owning lots of U.S. real estate
Ex-Philippine President Marcos dismisses 
reports that he holds a large amount of U.S. real 
estate, including posh New York office
buildings. In a report published today in the San 
Francisco Examiner, Marcos claims to own on
ly two New Jersey homes.
The Washington Post reports the government 
is investigating the actions of former White 
House official Michael Deaver. The Post quotes 
sources as saying Deaver tried to change Presi
dent Reagans acid rain policies before leaving
the administration and becoming a lobbyist for 
Canada. Acid rain has been a sticky problem 
between Canada and the US. Its against the 
law for former government workers to lobby on 
matters they dealt with while in office.City NewsSearch continues for students murderers
City Controller Flaherty uses funds to buy gifts
According to a published report, Pittsburgh 
[City Controller Tom Flaherty last year used 
I campaign funds to buy wedding gifts, throw an 
office Christmas party and pay off $1100 in 
restaurant and bar bills. The democrat is now
I running for lieutenant governor. A story in Sun
days Pittsburgh Press says Flahertys campaign 
[spending reports for 1985 also indicated the 
[citys chief fiscal officer was frequently im
precise, and sometimes inaccurate, in his cam
paign. The newspaper said Flaherty had no 
receipts for $529 in expenses for which he 
reimbursed himself. The Press said that this is 
an apparent conflict with state law, which re
quires candidates to maintain receipts or 
vouchers for each expenditure of more than 25 
dollars. The county Elections Department is 
reviewing Flahertys reports.
PITTSBURGHPittsburgh authorities are 
still looking for clues in the fatal shooting of a 
Toronto Rabbinical student in Pittsburghs 
Squirrel Hill section. Police are hoping a man 
who called a telephone crime tip service about 
the Thursday shooting of a 25-year-old Neal 
Rosenblom will call back with more detailed in
formation. The coordinator of Crime Solvers 
says he believes the caller was probably in the 
area when the murder occurred. Beaver police 
chief Tony Hovanec says the caller may have 
witnessed the shooting of Rosenblum, but
declined to reveal more information about the 
call that came in on Friday. Police says theyve 
been getting tips and have been following them 
up, but have ruled out nothing at this point. 
Rosenblum, an orthodox Jew visiting from 
Toronto for the Passover holiday with his wife 
and infant daughter, died Friday while undergo
ing surgery for multiple gunshot wounds. Before 
he lost consciousness, Rosenblum told a man 
who heard the shooting that he was shot by two 
young white men in a dark sports car with pop
up headlights.
Convict escapes but stays inside prisonSome Catholics seek more womens involvement
It took authorities about a day to find an injtmate reported missing at the ,state correctional 
[institution at Pittsburgh, but they didnt have 
to go far to find him. Prison officials say 
jl29-year-old Donald Unger hid inside a suspendjlpd aluminum ceiling above a shower room for 
fjjiearly a day before he was found. Unger was
discovered Friday evening, about 23 hours after 
he was reported missing. Prison officials say 
they captured Unger after a guard noticed that 
a metal plate in the ceiling was loose. Prison 
superintendent George Petsock says Unger will 
be charged with escape even though he never 
got out of prison.
A group of Pittsburgh-area Catholics says it 
will continue to seek greater participation by 
women in the church despite the bishops state
ment that he will not bow to pressure. Pittsburgh 
Bishop Anthony Bevilacqua announced last 
week that he would no longer meet with a group 
of clergy and lay people concerned about his 
decision to ban women from the Holy Thursday foot washing ritual. His ruling angered 
many Catholics in the Pittsburgh diocese, who 
claim it represents a much larger problem of 
womens role in the church. One of those press
ing for change is Judy Beczak who admits the 
group is in uncharted waters. But she says they 
will continue their battle.
hy the US bombed Libya
\&y GAVIN J. WILLIAMS
Tartan Staffwriter
| After a week of top level discussions, PresiK
jnt Reagan and his advisors made a decision 
make a decisive retaliatory move against 
gibyas leader, Colonel Muammar el-Qaddafi.
K
i Monday, April 14th, just before 7 P.M. 
astern Standard time) U.S. planes began a 
~|>ombing raid on several Libyan military targets, 
eluding Qaddafis headquarters compound, a 
aval academy and air bases in Tripoli and 
engazi.
The actual bombing of targets only lasted 
nder 15 minutes, but damage was extensive 
nd U.S. leaders considered the raid a success, 
wenty-four F-lll bombers took off from the 
AF base at Lakenheath and about fouiteen 
-6E strike aircraft (along with support aircraft) 
ere launched from the aircraft carriers 
merica and Coral Sea. Electronic jamming of 
fihyan radar bases preceded the attack, while 
irissile attacks were launched on SAM missile 
sites.
j Simultaneous attacks began at Bengazi and 
ripoli, with the main targets in these cities beg the Benina Airfield and military barracks 
ar Bengazi and the Azzizyah barracks and 
|idi Bilal training camps near Tripoli. Despite 
je U.S. attempt to hit only military targets, a 
sidential area in Tripoli was damaged. One 
S. pilot reported that Libyan missiles which 
issed their targets fell on Tripoli and may have 
used this damage to residential areas. The 
ench embassy and Swiss Ambassadors 
sidence sustained damage from the bombing, 
ding to the dissension among the Western 
ropean nations.
A number of civilians were killed in the raid, 
Jcluding Qaddafis 15 month-old adopted 
tighter. Two of Qaddafis other children were
0 lnjured and were listed in serious condin- Despite the strike on Qaddafis headarters, U.S. officials stated the goal of the raid
not to assassinate Qaddafi and that if he 
died it would have been a case of seren'rty* United States Secretary of State, George 
jgnulz stated he hoped that a coup against Qad1 would be motivated by the attack.
Sidra
LIBYA
LIBIAN MILITARY BASES
Contrary to Libyan claims that six U.S. planes 
had been shot down, only one F-lll was lost 
in the raid. Both pilots on board were killed.
The reasons for the raid, given by President 
Reagan and Mr. Schultz, were the pre-empting 
of future possible terrorist activity by Libya and 
retaliation against previous bombings, primari
ly the April 5th attack on a West Berlin 
discotheque, in which a U.S. serviceman was 
killed. Schultzs statement about the attack was 
that we [were] successfully sending the 
message that terrorism is going to pay a cost.
The U.S. raid on Libya has created some 
dissention among the NATO allies of the U.S.,
but despite the harsh words and signs of 
discord, U.S. officials did not complain about 
the European positions. Official!'', the positions 
of the major European powers varied.
Great Britains Prime Minister Margaret That
cher supported the raid and allowed U.S. 
bombers to take off from British airfields. 
However, the British people are less supportive 
and the press feels the raid may destroy a 
friendly allied government. One paper called 
the raid futile, deplorable and almost certain
ly counterproductive. The killing of three 
Britons in Lebanon on April 17th, in retalia
tion of British support of the raid, will increase
the publics opposition.
France and, less obviously Spain, refused to 
allow the U.S. planes from Britain to fly through 
their airspace, subjecting the pilots to more 
fatigue and greater possibilty of mistakes. The 
attack itself was criticized by most Western 
European governments. France stated they were 
more heavily engaged in the fight against ter
rorism . . . than it has ever been, but that they 
did not want to fight it publicly.
The same idea was raised by the government 
of Italy, who attempted to forestall any military 
actions by the U.S. against Libya. The Italian 
Prime Minister called for solidarity between 
states pursuing peaceful aims and respect for 
the laws of the international community.
The reasons for the U.S. raid on Libya and 
the dissension among the Western-powers can 
be traced mainly to the 1950s, when Libya 
gained independence and oil was discovered. 
Both the Italian takeover of Libya in 1911 and 
the Second World War kept Libya embroiled 
in war for decades. These conflicts left Libya 
weak and by the time of its independence in 
1951, its economy was ruined. Of its one 
million inhabitants, 90% were illiterate and only 
about 14 were college graduates. Libyans were 
also embittered by Western influence and 
began turning to the Arab world.
The independent government was led by King 
Idris, the leader of the resistance movement in 
the 1930s and 40s against the Italians. Idris 
had close ties with Britain, who along with the 
U.S., gave Libya critical aid. The government 
(which gave a larger amount of power to pro
vincial governments) was unusually elaborate 
and because of Idriss mistrust of political par
ties, patronage became widespread. With the 
discovery of oil in 1959 and subsequent im
provement in the economy, corruption and the 
regimes pro-Western policies alienated the 
youth. The call for popular rule increased.
On September 1, 1969, an army colonel, 
Qaddafi, and his Free Officer colleagues stag
ed a bloodless coup. The new regime was com
mitted to ending corruption, distributing oil 
continued on page 4

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanApril 22, 1986Background to understand the Libyan conflict
continued from page 3
revenues equitably and changing Libyan foreign 
policy to a non-aligned, anti-imperialist, Arab 
nationalist posture. By the mid-1970s, Qaddafi 
had greatly improved Libyan housing, medical 
care, education and transportation, and was a 
popular leader.
However, some frustration with the regime 
was becoming obvious in the 1970s. Ex
periments with political organization, including 
the creation of a single political party, were un
popular and inadequate. In April, 1973, Qad
dafi began the popular revolution,in which 
he called for the people to seize power and 
establish popular committees. By 1975, 
however, an important division developed in the 
regime, when a coup was attempted and fail
ed. The leaders fled into exile and the ruling 
circles were taken over by Qaddafi loyalists. 
Despite the attempted coup, Qaddafi continued 
his preference for high profile and expensive 
foreign policy.
In 1977, Libyas name was changed to the 
Socialist Peoples Libyan Arab Jamahiriya by 
an elected General Peoples Congress. The term 
jamahiriya means, loosely translated, a state 
without a government, or a peopledom in 
which the system of popular committees, first 
declared in 1973 and expanded upon in Qad
dafis Green Book (which contained his third 
international theory, calling for direct 
democracy and denouncing all forms of profit), 
was firmly established. In 1979, Qaddafi gave 
up his official position to become the Leader 
of the Revolution and guider of the popular 
revolution in Libya.
By the early 1980s, Qaddafis popularity was 
decreasing and opposition groups had 
developed. The originally peaceful reactions to 
opposition of the government became violent, 
including the public execution of civilians and 
the use of terrorism which continues. However, 
Qaddafi kept some support at home because of 
the economic improvements he has brought
Libya at a quick glance
History
For centuries, Libya was ruled over by foreign 
powers, the most recent being the Turks and 
Italians. The Italians invaded in 1911 and 
decreed the name Libya (once used by the 
Greeks) in 1934.
By 1949, the United Nations General 
Assembly declared that Libya should be in
dependent before 1952. Libya gained in
dependence on December 24, 1951. Libyas 
representative to the UN registrations, King 
Idris, ruled the kingdom of Libya until 
September 1969. At this time, a military coup 
created the Libyan Arab Republic, with Col. 
Mammer el Qaddafi as its chief of State. 
Geography
With an area of 680,000 square miles, Libya 
extends along 910 miles of the coast of South 
Africa. Excluding a narrow coastal strip, the 
land is primarily desert.
People
Libya has a population of approximately four 
million, with Tripoli, the capital, holding 1.2 
million of these. Most of these people are Ara
bian and Moslem, although there are a substan
tial number of immigrant workers form Europe 
and the Middle East. Arabic is spoken as the 
official language.
Economy
The discovery of oil in 1959 brought unex
pected wealth and power to Libya. Per capita 
income rose to $1,500 a year. Libyan lenders 
identified with the Arab cause and called for 
the severance of ties with the West. During the 
1970s, foreign workers were expelled from 
Libya.
However, foreigners, including several thou
sand Americans, returned to meet the demand 
for skilled technicians necessary to Libyas oil 
and gas based economy.
about in Libya. He also gains power from his 
almost unlimited financial resources. Despite a 
reduction in oil revenues because of decreas
ing oil prices, there has been few constraints 
on his foreign spending. For example, by the 
1980s, he had spent over $12 billion on 
military equipment from the USSR.
Qaddafis foreign policy is based on a radical 
political ideology, influenced by his third inter
national theory. He sees his revolution at home 
and his opposition to the status quo abroad as 
necessarily combined. Qaddafi has stated, the 
Libyan revolution is based on international 
ideology, not a national movement. A general 
opposition to the international system as reac
tionary and unjust has become important to 
Qaddafi.
Despite Qaddafis opposition to the intemaATTENTION
College Seniors 
& 
Graduate Students
Free Seminar 
May 14 1986 
Sponsored by 
Walker Pontiac 
niS^Mt. Lebanon
GMAC 
College 
Graduate 
Finance
Program^p
Learn how you may drive one of our image cars today 
with deferred payments!
Call today for reservations 
Contact Becky McTigue or Bill Niche 
(412) 343-6600
At Your
Service
tional system and despite the branding of Libya 
as a terrorist state by the Reagan administra
tion, foreign business sustains the government 
and provides it with funds to continue its foreign 
policy. Some 1000 Americans work in Libya 
and U.S. oil companies and contractors do 
business there, despite a ban on oil imports by 
the U.S. European nations, primarily France 
and Italy, are more dependant on Libyan oil 
and have greater economic interests and in
vestments. Because of this, they have been 
reluctant to follow the U.S. plan to isolate the 
Qaddafi regime.
The past few years have been ones of ten
sion between Libya and the U.S. Along with 
Libyas role in training and supplying terrorists 
such as Abu Nidal, a major point of conflict has
been over Qaddafis so called line of death  
an extension of the internationally recognized 
12-mile limit along Libyas coast. Motivated by 
the installation of Soviet SA-5 missiles in Libya 
and the discovery of a Libyan connection to the 
airport massacres in Vienna and Rome in 
December, 1985, the U.S. placed economic 
sanctions on Libya.
Along with this, military force was considered 
and a plan called Operation Prairie Fire was 
formed. It was intended to challenge Qaddafis 
claim to sovereignty over water 120 miles from 
Libya and consisted of staging naval manuevers 
beyond the line of death. On March 24, U.S. 
ships crossed the line and Libya retaliated 
by firing missiles at the U.S. planes. The U.S. 
then retaliated by firing at the Surt missile base 
and by sinking three Libyan attack boats. In 
response to the U.S. actions against Libya, a 
Libyan-backed terrorist group called the Izzeddin Qassam, a unit of the Arab Revolutionary 
Cell, placed a bomb on a TWA flight to Athens 
on April 2. The bomb exploded, killing four 
Americans, including an 8-month old baby. The 
explosion in West Berlin was also connected to 
the missile attacks, and led to the more exten
sive bombing raid.
Libyas prospects are unclear, but it seems 
definite that there will be an increase in terrorist 
activity in the Middle East, Europe and possibly 
the United States. Just in the few days after the 
raid, a number of retaliatory actions were taken. 
The U.S. declared that they would take each 
new development one step at a time, and would 
not necessarily increase the use of military force. 
The position of the European nations may 
become more opposed to the use of military ac
tion by the U.S. if terrorist attacks increase. 
Many analysts feel Margaret Thatchers support 
of the raid might harm her chances of reelec
tion during the next election, because of discon
tent among the British people. French and 
Italian policy will probably remain as it has been 
because of both nations interests in Libya.
CMU Computer Store
CMU Computer Store: UCC - A level
Phone: x2636 MM: PS00@TE 
For a current price list: Type HELP COMPUTER-STORE-PRICES on any
TOPS System.
Epson FX-85
200 cps.,selectable type styles and much much more. Price:
$361.00

---------------------------------------------------

GRADUATESIcircict
HAS YOUR
PRE-APPROVED 
CREDIT FROM 
FORD CREDIT
PLUS $400 TOWARD 
THE PURCHASE OF A NEW FORD
Its Easy To Qualify
 You must receive at least a 
bachelors degree or a state RN 
license between October 1, 
1985 and September 30, 1986.
*
 You must have verifiable 
employment that begins within 
120 days of your qualifying 
vehicle purchase at a salary 
sufficient to cover ordinary liv
ing expenses and your vehicle 
payment.
 Your credit record, if you 
have one, must indicate pay
ment made as agreed.
These Vehicles Are 
Included In The Plan
Ford: Escort, Escort EXP,
Tempo, Mustang, Thunderbird 
Ford Truck: Aerostar, Bronco 11, 
Ranger, F-150 & F-250
The amount of your pre
approved credit is determined
0o^fG e,
8 %
by the qualifying vehicle you buy, 
and you are eligible for the $400 
directly from Ford even if you 
dont finance your purchase. 
Make your best deal and you can 
use the $400 toward your down 
payment or get a check from 
Ford after the purchase or lease.
Hurry. If a vehicle is not in 
dealer stock it must be ordered 
by June 1, 1986, and delivery of 
all vehicles must be taken by 
August 31, 1986. See your par
ticipating dealer for complete 
program details.
^S pflP
Ford MotorCreditCompany
Contact: Rich DeNinno 
3696 Wm. Penn Hwy. 
Monroeville, PA 15146 
Phone: (412) 824-0060 
(412) 242-9900
kir<
FC3$
1
FORD

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Publicity ploy 
has little effect
The refusal of the four of our illustrious alumni to par
ticipate in the Salute to Carnegie yielded them considerable 
nationwide publicity but had no effect whatsoever on the 
outcome of th gala performance at the Civic Arena on 
Saturday, April 19.
Charles Haid, Barbara Bosson, Robert Foxworth, and 
Rene Auberjonois backed out of their commitment to per
form at Carnegie Salutes Carnegie' only 8V2 hours before 
showtime. As unsympathetic to Carnegie Mellons research 
programs as these performers are, we are equally unsym
pathetic to the performers actions.
The statement which these individuals hoped to make 
was indeed full of sound and fury; unfortunately, it 
signified nothing. The actors felt they could not be involved 
in a university with ties to the Department of Defense. But 
what did their failure to perform actually accomplish? The 
only damage done by this profound moral action, was done 
to the students of Carnegie Mellon.
All four of these now prominent figures owe a part of 
their success to the incomparable training that they receiv
ed from the College of Fine Arts. Rather than showing 
their appreciation of the school, they chose to do their best 
to exploit the situation and gain as much publicity 
as possible from an alread highly publicized media 
event.
But the show went on. The talents of the students who 
replaced the professionals more than adequately filled 
in the gaps. There is a proper time and place for moral 
statements of all kinds. 8V2 hours before a commitment 
to your alma mater is not an acceptable time and place. 
As students, we say thanks to the performers who were 
willing to give their time for the improvement of the univer
sity. To Ms. Bosson and Messers. Haid, Auberjonois and 
Foxworth, we say thanks for nothing.
Student involvement: 
the key to 
campus improvement
The students of Carnegie Mellon do a noticeably large 
amount of complaining. Maybe they have a right to. We 
dont have a student union; our athletic facilities are terri
ble; the academic pressure on students and faculty alike 
is enormous. This university has plenty of room for im
provement. Granted.
But are students who will not even take two minutes to 
vote for student government leaders in any position to com
plain about the current conditions? No, they are not.
Only 17% of the students on this campus were respon
sible enough to have a say in the future of student govern
ment. Are the other 83% satisfied with the status quo or 
just too lazy to do anything to alter it?
Unless students begin to recognize Student Senate as 
the influential body it is, the campus will never improve. 
Unless students begin to take an active part in suggesting 
and implementing specific improvements, the campus will 
never improve. Unless students take a few minutes to vote 
or make suggestions to administrators or Senators, the cam
pus will never improve.
Letters:Student disappointed by Union article
Editor:
I was disappointed and insulted by 
Carl Wicherts recent article in The Student Union entided Senate 
Hides $120,000 Surplus. I do not 
know if Carl deliberately 
misrepresented the facts or whether 
he was merely misinformed. Either 
way, the article was highly 
inaccurate.
First of all, the amount in question 
is not $120,000. This is an ac
cumulation of unallocated activity fee 
funds placed in reserve in the past 
few years. These reserve funds
enable Senate to fully fund student 
organizations without creating a 
deficit and without raising the ac
tivities fee. Senate does not have a 
deficit this year because it was able 
to use $22,000 of these reserve 
funds, contrary to Weicherts article.
The most obvious error is the false 
statement that Senators present at 
the session decided to keep silent 
about the surplus for an indefinite 
time period. At the April 8th 
meeting Senate passed a motion re
quiring the Funding and Recognition 
Committee to prepare a proposal by
September 15, 1986 to suggest 
alternative policies for investing or 
allocating the reserve. At this date, 
Senate will release a statement ex
plaining the alternative policies and 
the monetary figures. Student input 
will be sought before any definite de
cision is made. Weichert neglected 
to mention this information.
In view of these facts, I think that 
Carl Weichert and The Student Union owe Student Senate an 
apology for publishing a misleading 
and irresponsible article.
Joe Murphy 
Sophomore CIT
Student critiques lecture hall
Editor
I have to say that I love the In
quiring Minds column! Youre ab
solutely right, Inquiring Minds dont 
really give a damn! However, after 
reading your column a few weeks 
ago where you asked us to think 
about the meaning of the pipes in 
Gregg Hall, I became interested in 
that strange hall. Its scary when the 
first lecture hall you enter in your 
(so-called) college career is Gregg 
Hall. What is the purpose of these 
pipes? And how the hell does that 
bird get in?? Everyone who manages 
to stay awake during Calc notices the 
square lights near the ceiling. The 
first thing this Inquiring Mind wants 
to know is why they face up?? Sure
the light reflects off the ceiling but 
wouldnt it be more efficient if the 
light was directed downward?? 
Secondly, everyone who has been in 
there since the 1st semester will tell 
you how annoying the light in the 
front on the left is. First of all, it turns 
from orange to blue light and second 
it goes off and on in a regular pat
tern. Now you must be wondering 
how I know it is a regular pattern. 
Well I am prepared to offer proof. 
During Social Influences (not that 
I was bored, just curious) I timed 
that annoying light. The light stayed 
off for an average of about 2V2 
minutes and then went on for about 
P/2 mins. Much to my dismay, the 
following week when I went to class,
Foxworth fans go to enemy camp
Editor:
My wife and I thoroughtly enjoyed 
the Salute to Carnegie at the Civic 
Arena on April 19, 1986.
We were apalled when we heard 
that Chase Gioberti of Falcon 
Crest fame refused to appear on the 
program after receiving credit for ap
pearance in the Carnegie Salutes 
Carnegie formal, well designed, and 
prestigious program.
Since F alcon Crest is a must in
our weekly TV viewing we have 
resolved to now root for Angela 
Channing rather than Chase Gioberti 
during their respective weekly 
battles.
Mr. Robert Foxworth two TV 
viewers who are loyal to Carnegie 
Mellon have spoken. Heres hoping 
that Angela Channing defeats you in 
the valley.
Friends of Carnegie Mellon
the lightbulb had been changed, and 
it stayed on the whole time. Now how 
will I amuse myself in lecture? One 
last question before I go; why did it 
take dear old CMU six months to 
repalce a $2 light bulb??
Ski
Freshman
H&Confused
Sculptor 
updates 
situation
Editor:
As I write this, its been a week 
since the fat man was removed from 
the Forbes Gallery window, but I m 
only a little pissed. All the concerned 
parties have to meet next week to 
figure this whole thing out. Although
I think what was done was basically 
ignorant and they had no right to d 
what they did, until the university 
establishes a position on this matter, 
Im not going to waste my time be 
ing angry at anyone in particular. So 
until the final word from VUnltr 
Hall comes down, thats all I ha',f
to say.Jeff Pue! 
CFAjMl

---------------------------------------------------

April 22, 1986The TartanPage 7
Student view:
Carnegie Salutes Carnegie provides entertainment for all
By John Friedmann
Carnival was unique this year. There was the 
usual drunken revelry, which is something Car
nival should never be without, but Carnegie 
Salutes Carnegie made it different.
From the student perspective, 
CSC was a strange animal. At first, 
the idea seemed ludicrous. Leave 
| campus during CARNIVAL? To 
gee Andy Williams and Rene 
whateverhislastnameis? When we could be dan
cing on top of U-Hauls or trying to sneak golf 
balls past gophers on the midway? Forget it.
There was also another dissatisfied faction, 
those students who were under a mandate to 
participate. Although a small minority of the
performers, they saw being forced to give up 
precious carnival time as unfair. Some actively 
searched for ways to get out of the show.
But once the tickets were made available, a 
weird thing happened. They went faster than 
prime singles in room draw. Even the usually 
optimistic Public Relations department seem
ed suprised. But werent the tickets free. Sure 
students were picking them up, but no one 
would actually GO. They were just insurance 
against bad weather.
As the magic date approached, messages 
even started appearing from people who need
ed tickets, and were willing to pay for them. This 
small resale market for the good seats was 
another indicator about the popularity of the 
show.
As the curtian rose, most of those seats were 
occupied. There were no-shows, but many may 
have not been phyically able to attend the show 
due to an overabundance of good cheer and 
Iron City. The crowd was also different from 
the usual Arena denziens. Not once did I smell 
someone lighting up a J
Even the last minute walkout by the four 
stars didnt dent the momentum of Carnegie 
Salutes Carnegie. The general student attitude 
after the show seemed to be Who cares? It 
was a great show without them.
And a great show it was. Even the small group 
of Protest Management majors who brought out 
the ever-popular SEI - CMUs Contribution to 
Nuclear War banner (now appearing weekly 
at Warner Hall) couldnt dent the enthusiasm.
Sure the show was a little long. But suprisingly, it was fun. Even 11 consecutive student 
soloists were entertaining. And Jerry Lewis bit 
of schtick was just what was needed to keep the 
students interest.
The most suprising thing about Carnegie 
Salutes Carnegie was its ability to entertain 
everyone, a formula many producers would be 
willing to sacrifice certain integral body parts 
for. I wouldnt run out and buy the cast album, 
but none of the performers put me to sleep.
Some students even came out ahead from the 
show. A suspiciously large number were carry
ing the little goodies reserved for the big 
spenders, and those little champagne bottles 
may have provided the nucleus for several post
show celebrations.
Student conservationist argues for deposit legislation
by Jim R. Mihelcic
In October of the past year, the Pennsylvania 
House Agricultural and Rural Affairs Commit
tee approved H.B. 479 by an overwhelming 
vote of 20 to 2. H.B. 479, the Reusable Con
tainer Act, would require a five-cent deposit on 
all beverage containers sold in 
iPennsylvania. The deposit would 
si then be redeemed when the cony tainer was returned. Supporters of 
' ^aeposxi legislation include environmental, farm, 
sportsmen, and public interest organizations 
from around the state. Nine states currently 
have deposit legislation including New York, 
Michigan, Iowa, Oregon, and some New 
England states.
Litter affects agriculture and tourism, the two 
largest industries in Pennsylvania. Beer and soft 
drink containers comprise 40 to 60 percent of 
litter by volume. The New York State Depart
ment of Transportation has reported an 80 percent decline in container litter on New York 
| state highways during the programs first year. 
Oregon has reported container and total litter 
reductions of 83 and 40 percent respectively,
since enactment of deposit legislation. Other 
states with deposit laws have realized similar 
reductions in litter. The Pennsylvania Farmers 
Association has reported that Pennsylvania 
farmers experience losses of thirty-eight million 
dollars annually in damage to livestock and 
equipment from container litter.
Deposit legislation would not only reduce 
roadside litter, but it would also play an impor
tant role in a comprehensive solid waste 
management plan for Pennsylvania. Implemen
tation of deposit legislation would reduce the 
cost and magnitude of solid waste collection and 
disposal. This is important as Pennsylvania, 
which already handles nine million tons of gar
bage annually, is faced with a rapid depletion 
of landfill space. The Pennsylvania Bureau of 
Solid Waste Management has estimated that 
Pennsylvania taxpayers will save close to twentythree million dollars annually in solid waste 
handling and disposal costs from returnable 
container legislation. Deposit legislation targets 
the fastest growing segment of solid waste, since 
beverage container use is increasing at an an
nual rate of eight percent.
WATCH THE TARTAN
for all the latest in campus news
Last issue this semester:
April 29thFirst issue next semester: 
September 9th
Bottle bill opponents charge that this legisla
tion will result in a loss of jobs in the glass in
dustry. Supporters counter that the introduction 
of plastic and paper is the main factor affecting 
the glass industrys hardships. In all nine states 
which have enacted this form of legislation a 
net increase in jobs has occurred. Michigan and 
New York have realized a net increase of 5000 
jobs in trucking, handling, and recycling in
dustries. Employment opportunities are realiz
ed in unskilled and skilled positions. Considera
tion of the positive effect of cleaner roadsides 
and parks on tourism should increase the ex
pected employment benefits. Benefits to tourism 
are one reason this law is popular in states such 
as Oregon, Vermont, Maine, and New York.
Deposit laws also produce a net reduction in 
energy consumption due to recycling. In states 
with deposit laws close to 100 percent of steel 
and aluminum cans and glass bottles are being 
reused or recycled with great savings of energy 
and natural resources.
After the House Agricultural and Rural Af
fairs Committee passed H.B. 479, the House 
leadership, led by House Majority leader James
Correction: Last week The Tartanprinted a column by Mr. Michael Winks entitled Nicaragua: Not worth bullying third world countries into submission.  The sentences / disagree. Concepts are
Manderino (D-Westmoreland) and House 
Speaker Leroy Irvis (D-Allegheny), sent the bill 
to the House Appropriations Committee where 
it is currently being held up by the House 
leadership. Efforts to pass this legislation have 
moved to the Senate, where the House compa
nion bill, S.B. 191, is before the Environmen
tal Resources and Energy Committee. Senator 
Michael Fisher (R-Allegheny), who heads the 
committee, promised three hearings on this bill. 
After one hearing was conducted he stopped 
discussion on this subject. Senator Fisher has 
refused to allow the bill to come to vote, 
although his own poll has shown that his con
stituents support a bottle law.
Letters are now urgently needed to Penn
sylvania state representatives, Senator Fisher, 
and the Senate Environmental Resources and 
Energy Committee urging support of H.B. 479 
and S.B. 191. Further information on this sub
ject may be obtained by writing the Sierra Club 
Pennsylvania Environmental Lobby, P.O. Box 
663, Harrisburg, Pa. 17108.James R. Mihelcic is a graduate student in the Department of Civil Engineering.
very exportable,  appeared in the printed version, but were not part of the original text. We apologize to Mr. Winks and to our readers for any confusion which may have resulted from theThe Tartan
Lisa D. McAnany
Editor-in-Chief
Olve PeersenJohn Friedmann
Managing EditorBusiness Manager
Yijay ReddyJoshua M. LevineBruce kasrel
N<eus EditorFeatures EditorEntertainment Editor
Jill DorsonJack PollerMichael P. McHugh
Sports EditorPhotography EditorArt Editor
Albrecht T. PowellCeleste ClarkKathryn A. Sitter
Production ManagerAd ManagerTypesetting Manager
John BabichMohan EmbarDave Levy
Dossier EditorContributing EditorTartan Assistant
The Editorial appearing at the beginning of the 
opinion section is the official opinion of The Tar
tan editorial board. Columns are the opinions 
of individual authors who are not necessarily on 
The Tartan Editorial Board or Staff. Letters to 
the Editor are opinions of individual authors who 
are usually members of the Univerity communi
ty. A letter intended for publication must be sign
ed and include the writers address and phone 
number for verification. Names will be withheld 
upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to 
condense or reject any letter.
Copyright  1986 by The Tartan. The 
Editorial Board reserves the right to withhold 
from publication any copy it deems unfit for 
publication.
Office: Skibo 50. (412) 268-2111.
Mailing address: The Tartan
Carnegie Mellon University 
Box 17
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-38v>
Funded by the Activities Fee. All rights 
reserved

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
Comics
Gallery
Classifieds
Events
aiutes Carnegie
Entertainer Andy Williams sings with the Chamber Choir.Poller
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Entertainment Editor
Last weekend at the Civic Arena the long 
awaited entertainment extravaganza that was 
Carnegie Salutes Carnegie took place. With 
everything from the world famous Kilte Band 
to Jerry Lewis, the night proved to be a great 
success. Although there were no fireworks at 
the close due to the weather, there were more 
than enough earlier in the day. Only eight hours 
before the scheduled event, alumni Rene 
Auberjonois, Barbara Bosson, Robert Foxworth, and Charles Haid announced that they 
were dropping out of the event in protest of 
Carnegie Mellons involvement with the Soft
ware Engineering Institute (SEI).
In a press conference in the Fine Arts 
Building, Haid expressed the fours opinions in 
a prepared statement. We are from the 
humanities. Our work is to affirm life through 
our words, our art, our music. We cannot in 
good conscience participate in any way in 
technology that might destroy it. He continues 
to say, We cannot lend our support- directly 
or indirectly- to an institution that accepts fun
ding from the Department of Defense.
Personally I am outraged at this display of 
unprofessional behavior from what I thought 
were highly professional actors. Luckily they 
were not under any contract so they could get 
away with this. They are performers first and 
foremost, and they were asked to use their 
special gifts to help the university raise money 
it so desperately needs. They all received their 
training here and it was a very high honor and 
a tribute to their achievements to be asked to 
perform. When they decided to drop out they 
not only sacrificed professional standing by 
backing down on a commitment, but also 
disgraced the institution that got them to the 
point that they are now.
On friday, I spoke with Mr. Auberjonois who 
said ...this place is where my career got its 
start, now I have come back to help out. In
stead of helping out the universitys drive to im
prove life on campus, he threw mud in the face 
of Carnegie Mellon. I guess he got all he could 
out of this school so why bother lending a hand 
so others can benefit trOTi this great institution 
(fear of job security, maybe?).
I know that their point is a strong one, bl!* 
as Nancy Marchand and producer Bob Finkel 
(two people who obviously know much more 
about the business) both said during the show
in this business the show must go on. And 
on that note, this article must go on.
The evening began with a parade style en
trance of all those performers in the show. The
members had the crowd tapping their feet in 
enjoyment.
After this highly entertaining act, the show 
took a major detour. Andrew Carnegie himself, 
actually an impersonator of him, got up and 
spoke about whether or not his school fulfilled 
its original purpose. People from the audience, 
who rehersed beforehand, thanked Carnegie for 
such a good education. This proved to be a low 
point of the evening as the whole skit looked 
very staged and forced (it did provide a good 
joke when Carnegie alluded to the fact the he 
resided in Heaven, right buddy). Following 
Carnegie, Dr. Cyert gave us the main reason 
for all this hoopla, we need $200 million dollars 
to spiffy up the place and improve the entire 
universitys academic and social activities. Since 
this event was a fund raiser as well, his message 
came over rather well, but it is still hard to take 
since we fork out a bundle to come here.
The Musical Theatre Dancers provided the 
only dance number of the evening. They were 
perfectly in sync, but the number suffered due 
the virtual absence of solo work. Although the 
news of the drop out had already reached the 
press by show time much of the audience was
The list of stars Si Carnegie Salutes Carnegie was long and very prestigious.
parade was your basic T.V. style intro with the 
exception that you could not hear the band at 
all because they were facing away from the au
dience and did little dynamically to compensate 
for this. Next came Andy Williams who you 
could not hear too well either because his 
microphone was turned off. Williams, a true 
professional, resorted to a litde tap dancing to 
please the crowd as Moon River nlaved in 
the background. He finally got his mike to work, 
finished the number, and then went into a 
gospel medley with the Carnegie Mellon Con
cert Choir. The combination was excellent, 
however it did not really showcase the full 
talents of the Concert Choir.
The mood then shifted to a jazz mode with 
the Jazz Choir and Carnegies favorite band 
leader George Gee. The Jazz Choir sang in 
perfect harmony and when they juxtaposed 
Puttin On The Ritz with 42nd Street the 
evening had its first of many high points. George 
Gee and his Make Believe Ballroom Orchestra 
took the audience back a few decades to the 
big band era with a few upbeat selections. His 
constant enthusiasm and the bands talented
not aware of what had transpired. Bob Finkel, 
the shows producer, informed the audience and 
said that they had selected drama students to 
replace them (Anne Capron, Katie Suber, Mar
cus Lovett, Pamela Winslow, Michael Hartson, 
and an Assistant Professor of Acting Anthony 
McKay). These students had very little time to 
rehearse their parts, yet performed more than 
adequately under the circumstances. Worth 
special mention is Michael Hartson, who filled 
in for Charles Haid an in comparison to Haid 
in rehearsal, he did a far better job.
There were many other very fine perfor
mances by students throughout the entire show. 
Vocalists Scott Adler, Lisa J. Klein, Gary S. 
Lindemann, Melissa Standley, Kevin Charbonneau, Maggie Stewart, Shelly Dawson, Guy 
Russo, Linda B. Braun, Lisa Peters all had a 
minute to showcase their talents. All were 
brilliant and there was not a single nervous slip 
among them, although a few were asked to 
stretch their chords a little beyond reasonable 
bounds.
The brightest spot of the whole evening came 
before the student soloists. Recent graduate 
Diane Fratantoni, a former member of touring 
company of Cats, sung the standard song from 
the show Memories and then slipped into a 
roaring rendition of All that Jazz. Her voice 
was full and balanced and it filled the Arena 
beautifully. Coupled with her marvelous stage 
presence she had the audience captivated 
through her entire performance.
The only comedy performance came from in
comparable Jerry Lewis as he took the stage and 
had the audience laughing with his Dumb 
Jokes like What is a wrench... a place for 
jewish cowboys. And with his adaptation of 
Gershwins Rhapsody In Blue which he _ 
called Behold the Fallopian Tube ". Lewis 
again had the crowd laughing as he batded with 
his klutzy drummer who kept dropping his cym
bals. Lewis' gestures were hilarious every time 
the cymbals crashed to the ground.
Despite the lack of the four performers and 
the annoyance of the overstated sales pitches, 
the evening was basically a success. However, 
the true test of its success will come in the next 
few years as Carnegie Mellon tries to reach its 
ambitious 200 million dollar goal.
Members of Carnegie Mellons Musical Theatre Danee perform a number from Samba.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanApril 22, 1986
By DAVID LEVY
Tartan Assistant
From the beginning Ive been a liar and a 
cheat. Show business seemed inevitable.
Harry Anderson 
An inevitability that has brought laughter to 
many, especially on March 21 and 22 when 
Harry Anderson brought his one-man-show to 
Pittsburgh. Performing in the main room of the 
Holiday House, Anderson sold out all shows 
with his combination of tricks, cons and jokes.
Anderson went through a few of the acts that 
he has done on Saturday Night Live and also 
some others that have not been seen before on 
television. It was a different kind of humor that 
was appreciated by the crowd which was in no 
way homogeneous. People of all ages were there 
and many expected the tame zaniness of 
Harrys character on Night Court. They were 
surprised as Andersons comic genius explod
ed from the stage.
One of the starting skits was a bit of the old 
slight of hand where he borrows a five dollar 
bill from two different audience members and 
proceeds to tear them in half. He then returns 
a half to each owner and proceeds to rip them 
to pieces, bums them and then magically turns
the pieces to a single ten dollar bill. Finally a 
little bit more is done to the ten and two halves 
of five dollar bills are returned to their owners. 
After an inspection from the lenders, the money 
is proclaimed to be the original bills.
Also included in the nights affairs is the Do 
What I Do con. An audience member is ask
ed to come up with their drink. Harry then asks 
them to do what I do. After various motions 
with the glass, he takes a sip of the drink; so 
does the volunteer. Harry then spits out the sip 
while the volunteer can not since he has already 
swallowed the drink.
One of the more original aspects of Harry 
Andersons repertoire is the chapography. 
Although practiced in Europe for centuries no 
American performs it in an act except Ander
son. Using a wide ring of felt, Anderson makes 
several different types of hats and ends with 
mouse ears and the line Why? Because I like 
it.
The other uniquely Anderson trick was the 
Needle Through the Arm. In this trick Harry 
explains the way of the Geek of the old Carny. 
About the man who would bite the head off live 
chickens and swallow live snakes. He would 
then proceed to pull out long needles from his
carpetbag and proceed to push them through 
his arm, all the while telling the squeemish not 
to worry because it was just a trick.
The evening ended with one last trick called 
the Table Dance. The audience checks the 
table to ensure that there are no hooks or things 
to grab and just a smooth top is found. The 
lights are dimmed, druidish music is played in 
the background and Anderson puts his finger
tips on the table. Slowly he moves his palms 
down flat onto the table and then begins to lift
AP News:
APIt doesnt do much good to have an eight 
millimeter VCR if you dont have movies to play 
on it. And this has not pleased Sonywhich 
makes eight millimeter VCRs. The company 
thinks the world is ready for the litde cassettes, 
which sell for about half the price of VHS and 
Beta tapes. Its problem, though, is that VHS 
and Beta got in big first, and thats what the 
world is watching.
So, to make its eight millimeter players more 
attractive, its been trying to add to its library
the table off the ground with only his palm toucing the table. He then dances around the stage 
proving that there are no strings attached to the 
table. A final spin with the table around his palm 
and the show ends.
An enjoyable evening was had by all. Ander
son had performed for a long time and everyone 
was happily exhausted from laughing and clap
ping. It was definitely something to mark off 
on the calendar and grab some friends to go 
see Harry Anderson the next time hes here.
Diversions
of things to watch. It recendy signed a distribu
tion agreement with Paramount Home Video. 
Under the agreement, says Billboard 
magazine, Paramount may put out 100 pro
grams by the end of the year. Also getting into 
the eight millimeter field is Embassy, which 
signed a deal with Eastman Kodak. Embassy 
is to put out at least 46 titles in the next 18 
months.
A Paramount official says that one plus for 
eight millimeter is that, if it becomes the soft
ware of choice, every maker can use it. This 
would be easier than the current Beta-VHS face 
off.
Expect to find eight millimeter tapes in places 
youd buy the players. Outlets dealing primari
ly in tape, as opposed to tape players, may not 
want to tie up their money in stuff that reaches 
relatively few people.
VIDEO SALES
Like Old Coke, Old Jane Fonda is doing just 
fine in the marketplace. Her original workout 
tape is number five on Billboards weekly na
tionwide survey of sales. However, the new Jane 
Fonda is doing even betterits number one.
Running down the list, its new Jane, follow
ed by Return of the Jedi,, Beverly Hills 
Cop, Pinocchio and Old Jane. 
HOROWITZ HEADS HOME
Pianist Vladimir Horowitz staged a triumphant 
return to his homeland today. He drew a 
thunderous ovation and took six curtain calls 
on the stage of Moscows Tchaikovsky Conser
vatory. It was Horowitzs first performance in 
the Soviet Union in 61 years.
GETTY VS. GETTY
The fabulously rich J. Paul Getty left the bulk 
of his fortune to the Getty Museum in Califor
nia when he died ten years ago. This, although 
he had spent his last years in Britain. His son, 
J. Paul Getty the Second, also has chosen to 
live in Britain rather than his native America.
The son is also worth hundreds of millions 
of dollars. And one of his missions in life is to 
see that the Getty Museum does not make off 
with art works that he feels should stay in Bri
tain. This has made him something of a hero 
in his adopted countrya David fighting 
Goliath. The father and son were, for many 
years, not on speaking terms.
A couple of years ago, the son gave more than 
a half million dollars to the Manchester, 
England art museum to prevent the sale of an 
Italian religious painting to the Getty Museum.
List yssr, he donated 6.3 million dollars to 
the National Gallery in London. It was said to 
be the largest donation to the gallery since its 
founding in 1824.
The British were delighted. For the first time, 
the National Gallery would have the huge 
amounts of money neeucu to keep ari from Deing sent to the U.S. Under British law, an im
portant work cannot be exported until its deter
mined that no local institution c^r, afford to buy 
it.
Britains rt minister, Lord Gowrie, describ
ed the Getty gift as Spledid and'historican 
act of profound generosity. He said Getty had 
put Britain as well as the National Gallery in 
his debt.
F1Y TO LONDON FORJUST 
$1990F\DUREHHEKS MONEY
Dad works hard for your money.So show him how understanding you can be. Fly to London on Virgin Atlantic.Itll only set him back $199, when you take advantage of our Sameday Fare.And youll get all our extras at no extra charge.So stop by your old mans travel agent
the next chance you get.Or call us at (212) 242-1330 or (201) 623-0500.After all your fathers done for you, its the least you can do for him.
VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAll our extras at no extra charge.
Harry Anderson presents an evening of trickery

---------------------------------------------------

April 22, 1986The TartanPage 11
Drama Student Michael Hartson filled in for Charles Haid.
AP: Doug Henning 
is in good hands
photo by Jack L. PollerJerry Lewis laughs it up with Dumb Jokesphoto by Jack L. Poller
Master magician Doug Henning is getting in
surance to cover his hands300 thousand 
dollars a finger, or three million dollars total. 
Henning says a magician is only as good as his 
hands. Hennings publicist says the performer 
practices finger exercise up to eight hours a day 
to keep his fingers nimble. Henning gained pro
minence in 1974, when The Magic Show 
opened on Broadway. The show earned him a 
Tony nomination. Hes received an Emmy for 
his annual Doug Hennings World of Magic 
TV shows.
David Bromberg 
at Graffitti
Musican unparalleled, David Bromberg will 
play for Pittsburgh with his newly-formed 
quartet in the back room at Graffiti (4615 Baum 
Blvd.). There will be one concert Saturday, 
April 25 at 9 p.pm.
Bromberg is a consummate musician, a 
superb eclectic performer, and delivers a song 
that charms from back-alley to penthouse. As 
a jazz critic for the New York Times once wrote, 
'David Bromberg fits no pigeonholes. He is part 
of everything contemporarily musical. He is a 
product of blues, country, jazz, folk and classical 
music. From his early success as a virtuoso, Mr. 
Bromberg has developed into a brilliant enter
tainer.
Tickets are available at all Kaufmanns ticket 
centers and at Graffiti for $10 in advance and 
$12 at the door. Dinner by reservation, please.
Sugar Babies Cancelled
Pittsburgh-The producers of Sugar Babies 
have just announced that the 8-year national 
tour of Sugar Babies will close prior to the 
Pittsburgh engagement. All tickets must be 
returned immediately, either by mail or in per
son, to the point of purchase for refunds. Tickets 
were sold at Heinz Hall, Syria Mosque and the 
following ticket outlets: Kaufmanns, Gimbels, 
Le Ticket and Tix.
PREGNANT?
And you didnt mean to be? 
For a iree pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 741-3491.
FlimK AN APARTMENT Rl MANHATTAN TAKES TH RKHT EDUCATION
Get a free copy of Manhattan Moves 
the insider's guide to finding an affordable 
apartment in Manhattan.
To welcome potential new 
residents to the city, and dispel 
some myths about housing in 
New York, we have published a 
book called Manhattan Moves.
Its the ultimate insiders guide 
to apartment hunting in the 
Big Apple.
Manhattan Moves helps 1 
you set your sights on the right y* 
type of apartment and location. 
takes you on a tour of the citys 
neighborhoods, introduces you to 
the available housing, gives you 
vital facts about transportation, 
housing laws, renting, sharing, and 
much more.
The book gives you inside 
advice on actually finding the 
apartment youve targeted. It helps 
you find the hottest listings, tells you 
how to canvas, and how to select 
a broker.
Send for a free copy of 
Manhattan Moves today. It wont 
guarantee you a Manhattan apart
ment, but it will definitely get you 
moving in the right direction.
TO: MANHATTAN MOVES MILFORD MANAGEMENT,1271 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10020
Send me a copy of Manhattan Moves, The Insiders Guide to finding an 
Apartment in Manhattan-free without cost or obligation.
Your Name  _______.*-----------------------------------------------
School---------------------- -------------- -----------------
Address -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
City--------------------------------------------------------State.Zip
Home Address
City-------------StateZip
Phone No.Or CaH ToH Fra* 1 (IM) 247-4041

---------------------------------------------------

in Skibo Grey Matter 
TueFri, 10:00 am5:00

---------------------------------------------------

ROCKY! ROCKY! ROCKY!
America Cheers for the Champ!
mmY/&
PG PARENTAL GUHWUCE SUGGESTED-^
DATE: Tuesday April 29 
TIME: 7, 9, 11 pm 
PLACE: Skibo Ballroom
Kammnamn 
mnm 
mum mm
SFKB.
To Luxembourg: Roundtrip Fare
New York$458"$499'<
Chicago$518$559'
Balt./Wash.$488'$529'
Detroit$508*$5491
Orlando$518"$559'
Get in on our lowest fare to Europe in years. And with it, get a lot 
more than just the trip over. Because, when you fly Icelandair, you get 
everything you expect from a full-service airline, with no charge for 
meals or baggage. Every fare includes free wine with your in-flight 
dinner and free cognac after.
Icelandair Values Continue After You Land: Free deluxe, roundtrip motorcoach between Luxembourg and select cities in Germany, 
Belgium and Holland. Special $15 train fares to Switzerland or France. 
Super Saver Kemwel car rentals at just $59 per week in Luxembourg. 
And, if you choose, a day or two stopover in Europes most beautifully 
kept secret, Iceland.
Super Bargain Fare, 6-30 day stay. tSuper Grouper Fare, 1-365 day stay. Valid 5/16-6/8/86, $3.00 departure tax applies. For information & reservations, call your travel agent or 
Icelandair at 1/800-223-5500.
ICELANDAIR
Original Hot Dog Shop
3901 Forbes Avenue 
9 a.m.-4:30 a.m. Sun.-Thurs. 
9 a.m.-6 p.m. Fri.-Sat.
Largest Selection of Imports 
in the City
Try our new Vi pound 
freshly ground hamburger 
32 varieties
For your entertainment,
The Top of the O, above the O, 
features entertainment Friday and Saturday
-large selection of imports available 
for consumption on premises 
-table service

---------------------------------------------------

Uomics
Zurkby Nabil LiumangNollem Eigenrac
THE SMOKE SiL-ENTL-V 
9IFT&D Down APVoWG 
THE TORTURED EARTtt.
-Wi -thgi -DEVASTATION 
Of MR AND IAND MUNG 
HEAM* AMIDST THE TRUE, 
FEW SURVIVORS
THE SECRET OF THIS 
MERCILESS "DESTRUCTION
wA5 UN ADMITTEDLY 
KNOW Si rWad uotnse wrtsprfl yVrtFRC MEN f\Re 
WofAEM TVMiRTEEM AMD jb,seit
Theart nrByhaDRU 6 ArV
kJ6X, cHRiaiv/^ /s rtlL 
OUER. *|0D X MAD fl <bR0lT Tme/
evetmikx, ojas tjwf RiO*>, we wiot^y 
COOtfRTS, C*Rk),lf  
CARMe^T/Vf PWRT/
i mewio, 7we
BROTHERS W6RF Nice
EM mf.
Comics in the News
CUCK CUCK. WHtfiM-. CUCK..
Inkspots by Kurt Shaw
Poindexterby Don Beyer
. . .And now, due to the absence of oil tht 
presents the CMU Children's School Choir$'
~ :__________________
Peanut Butter and Jellydrama Comix by isiak cokiand
YOU GOT 'YOUR CHOCOLATE IN MY PEANUT BETTER 
AND NOW GONNADIE.'
BLOOM COUNTY
Ta comre...OR NOT TO COMPUTE... 
THAT IS THE QUESTION...
by Berke Breathed
DalsalM orn igNelM ri sal wlwgMS wiF ccsg NExxlM sal nEimn wT hrMhErsn gx WtPbuACWtU Kt.dP,W.Uccc
..OR TO TAKE UP ARMS A6AINST A SEA Of...TRANSISTORS.OR RATHER,TRANSPONDERS TRANSCOHPUTRAN5... ee
OH, TO HACK WITH IT.
WHAT IS The NATURE OF COP 7
zdeepf f 1 QT. SOUR CREAM 1 TSP 5WERKRAUT y* CUP CHIVES.STIR ANP SPRINKLEwrm mm ms.
m JUST. GOT TO START LA&eUNb Ml SOFTWARE

---------------------------------------------------

April 22, 1986The TartanPage 15
BLOOM COUNTY
MY FRieUP / OH GOP.. M5& MY FRlENPS / NOTHING CTTER 70 UFT TH6 SPlRtTS OF fi MAN IN PHYSICAL CRISIS IHM /? SHOW OF LOYALTY BY HIS 
COMRflPRB/
by Mike McHughMR. PALLAS... WR FRIENPSmum w see Tuit
-me/m
April29t
'iOU'RB PRO WRESTLING. 
IT? ,ycTTHeze's uonrecomdyWjT FOUT,....**xotvf neu. Dior fr up near/."
6f\V...&eKY PORe OF My BOPY IS
 ,. fu,.ccc
CpCb'P$,.A i mr 3e J BROKEN..
jeezGGOT must've blastcpMe WITH A IZ-GAUGE.
WITH WHAT? A 
VOCKSWAGCN?
WHOATTACKE? Mer a we OF PRUGMYFRTiBIKERS ?
He auisaEaON YOUR BACK.HIS
FOREHFAP.
rhe Digressional 
Choiceby Seth Eliot 
and Mike McHughOH, PR. LSGRUNT...MR. PALLAS WOULP UKe TO KNOW WHAT.. UH.. RESTRICTIONS A PERSON WITH A
_ BROKEN BACK
T~\ tSUNPFR.
J060IN6 IS OUT. MOTORCYCLING IS OUT. memis uirt sm
FOOLIN'ubWt.fIS OUT.WHAT ABOUT... R... YOU KNOW...
HPSPfWt M&HO APirrW'NO YUUN HO ROHH'su tuet?wHO Mac FOOLUt MUMP N0lNPEBTEW5i
HOSPITAL- friesHOSPtTftL. RvUS ra anrnw no yeu-iNHO MUMIN NO 9CUPIN HO Mac foeiM fern? NO foouu X&MD DU
WmMPIlMIMS, 
wmrio f\ 6C0FU6... 6RIN6N6 fl BIT OF CHEEK, 
lOMMfVSWm/ 
^
LORO, PONT LET THIS POOFUS ATHEIST CROAK...
IF YOU mN STEVE,We'Re He's -Cuir ruehf Hem ru veucArn NiwSnwT j see we -sa renwn*N - 8MMgB<t PR/eSTlN 
t wrm HIM.
1 THINK 
PRIEST? STEVE ; 7ye poofus pbserhes[SAN MORS RESPECTme/ST. THAN THAT,\ PONT YOU 
by Nabil Liumang
/^W77Z>
600P MORNING, 
/ MR. PALLAS. TM PR. LEGRUNT... YOUR ORTHOPEPIC SURjrv Snust so... -tyL BROKEN SPINE, EH?
WELL'LT$ JUST PIG 
IN THERE... CLAMP THINGS BACK TOGETHER...HORe hS m Ffme- MRK ANP LAY dotte
ioksML'f
nurse.. FETCH MEA W...WHY POES THE BLUE-COLLAR ASPECT OF BONe SURGeRY BOTHeRMEr
SSLisnwm JTT
Me." MY OOP-. 1 CAN sm Feu  am- ( 
vm/1
MEN...WE'LL START EXCAVATING AT THE SIXTH VERTEBRA. LETS COUNT EM OFF..
NURSE.FETCH THE PATENT A 'BUP\.
* Carnegie Salutes Carnegie proudly
or*t You Want Me Baby?'... 
WC / WHO SAWTM STILL THAT fAWAKE" /

---------------------------------------------------

REEBOK
THE CONCEPT SHOP
A Gimbels charge 
makes shopping easy
Its easy to apply for one, too. 
To open your Gimbels charge 
account, just call 765-8352.
Come catch all the action 
as Gimbels brings you 
Reebok...The Concept
at Mellon Square
Because life is not a spectator sport...
What a team! Gimbels and Reebok, together in one terrific place: 
Reebok...The Concept Shop. The citys first and only! Now, at 
one location, the finest fast-action essentials for on-the-go guys 
and girls. Its all here. The gear, the wear, everything you 
for working out, pumping up, muscling, hustling or merely 
making the scene! Starting with the footwear. Rugged, reliable 
Reeboks in nearly a dozen high-performance styles. From hightop to high-fashion and many in between. 39.95-59.95
Plus, Reeboks exciting new activewear line. Hot, high-energy 
shirts, shorts, sweats, stirrups, tees, tanks and tights. Like these, 
for her, sizzling snowflake sweatshirt, $37; with slim trim 
stirrups, $28. Both 100% cotton.
And for him...cool, cotton polo shirt, $27; 
with cotton drawstring shorts, $19
Plus, youll find stock-up socks, sweat bands, sunglasses, 
duffle bags, gear bags, aerobic bags and more. One shop. One 
stop. Make it Reebok.. .The Concept Shop, Mellon Square on 1!

---------------------------------------------------

Illustration by Michael P. McHugh
FORBES gMcAndrtw'SOVfcR 50.000 MEER
GIANT ANDY! H H 
CMU MOTELflHICHER
MltCSEVERYDAY
&=FI=F
Illustration by Nabil Liumang
Tail er y
IMViTABu'. the. DevEiPMAlT F 
-TiriV SAFE'S T=R S. ^JTASTEu^5 "A^T 
COrAe-Di-S"
Illustrations by Christian M

---------------------------------------------------

JOBS ... JOBS ... JOBS ... JOBS
THE CARNEGIE-MELLON ACTION PROJECT (C-MAP) IS 
LOOKING FOR INSTRUCTORS & TA'S IN CHEMISTRY, CAL
CULUS, STATISTICS, ENGLISH & COMPUTER SCIENCE TO 
WORK IN ITS PRE-COLLEGE PROGRAM FROM JULY 5 TO 
AUGUST 9, 1986. GRAD STUDENTS PREFERRED, HOWEVER, 
UNDERGRADS PROFICIENT IN THESE SUBJECTS WILL BE 
CONSIDERED. APPLICATIONS WILL BE TAKEN THROUGH 
APRIL 30, 1986 IN THE C-MAP OFFICE, 410 MMC, FROM 9:00 
AM - 5:00 PM. RESUMES AND TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED.
LONDONINTERNSHIPS
Art/Architecture
Business/Economics
Journalism/
Mass Communications
' Politics
Semester programs include 16 credits,
9-week internship, apartments, British faculty.
All programs ottered Fall and Spring; Politics and 
Journalism/Mass Communications also offered Summer.
BOSTON UNIVERSITY
NAME___
ADDRESS. 
CITY____
PHONE
STATE
( ) 
_ ZIP _
? Art Architecture D Journalism, Mass Communications
? Business Economics ? Politics
__Summer 86 ___Fall 86 ___Spring 87 ___Summer 87
Return To London Inlefnshtps. 143 Bay Stale Rd Boston. MA 02215 (617)353-9688
WE SPEAK TECHNOLOGY. 
DO YOU?
If youre a science or engineering major, youll want to be 
part of todays Air Force. Were developing lasers and 
satellites that make science fiction seem dated. Air Force 
ROTC is one way to be part of this fast-paced technology.
Air Force ROTC has 2-through 4-year scholarship 
programs which help defray some of the college costs  
tuition, textbooks, laboratory and incidental fees.
After graduation, youll be an Air Force officer, and will 
join those who are leading us into space-age technology.
Take a close look at Air Force ROTC now. Dont let 
technology pass you buy. Be a part of it.
Contact Captain Carter, Porter Hall 15
268-8747
AIR FORCE
DEBRA ABELL m d.dermatologist
easily accessible by bus from CMU
3500 Fifth Ave, Suite 102, Oakland 
682-5050
MasterCard, Visa accept Call appointment
E-ZMini
Storage
Self Storage Call
Students, Faculty 
Store your goods 
lor Less!
276-6080
810 Trumball Dr.Holiday 
,nn eGreentree, PA 15205
- easy access/ 1 V
- you keep theMarriot J o |
key1 I
- sizes 5x5 and1 I
upE-Z Mini * Storage
Downtown
Greentre n*
Airport
LOOKING IWTO GRADUATE BUSINESS EDUCATION? 
GEORGIA TECH*S MSM MAKES THE DIFFERENCE
Georgia Tech' graduate sunagemeot program ia not juat another pretty face. We are  elect group of individuate purauing excellence in management. We foeter a atiaulating academic environment eaphaaising aolving buaineaa problem with analytical method. At Georgia Tech'a College of Management we take education eerioualy. We welcome atudenta from all academic backgrounds, a* we require only one item from each atudent: commitment. At a time when conventional NBA programare coming under aharp criticiam from buaineaa leader* the MSM atanda tall.
Full-t ie progr
When you matriculate in Georgia Tech'a MSM program you join a tightly-knit group of motivated individuala. Many of our atudent have taken time out from their highly aucceaaful careera to puraue a graduate buaine degree on a full-time baai. Moat choose to enrich their studies through atamtr intemahipa or the Crafeate Co-op Program.
Atlanta: Home to 434 Fortune 500 ccmpanie
aay business is looking up in Atlanta is to understate the facts. With 434 of the Fortune 500 repreaented, Atlanta is the unquestioned business capital of the Southeast. It is the financial, tranaportation, and cultural hub of the region.The College of Management's ties with local fcisinesses are atrong. It'a a fact of life here in the Soutbeaat: companies want Tech graduatea.
All thig and fun, too
The small aise and intensity of our program builds comraderie among our students, gocisl events are commonplace, and the program ia represented in all men s and women'a intramural aporta. Win or loae, we alway take time to celebrate after the
Let' talk
Interested? Send now for information or call our Director of Admissions. Tou might aak us to put you in touch with one of our students; they ere, after all, our 
beat salespeople.
Georgia Institute of Technology 
217 College of Manageaent 
Atlanta, Georgia 30332 
(404) 894-2623
Precision Haircuts custom designed for the look you want
Designer
Perm
only*25.00
ROTC I
Gateway lo a great way of fl(e.
Precision 
Haircut
onlyH3.00complete with rWmn guarantee!
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED 
Great Styles Start at- noAPPOWTMENT
Complete with shampoo A Mow style
Just-A-Cut
only
*8.00
Precision haircut only
No Appointments
r 
i 
iI fter Expires:
I April 30, 1986
IM UMS COUPON I
save'2.00 I
on the PiecWon Hokeu> ICompiate wMttftampoo A tfyNn# |
9
TEWS
237 Atwood Street Across the street from Oakland Post Office
U! 687-3500urtVTVnM>

---------------------------------------------------

Classifieds
REWARD! I lost my wallet on the Vomitrvn this 
Saturday night. I liked it very much and really 
want it back a lot. Please, if you found it call 
me, Andy, at x4362. Not one question asked.
Efficiency 1 and 2 bedroom apartments in
the Shadyside and Highland Park area. 
362-1276
ApartmentShadyside: 1 bedroom, wall to 
wall, security system, newly redecorated. 
621-2873
Oh where, oh where my kitten fair... a late 
but sincere Valentine greeting.
Stuff for sale: Queen Size Waterbed $150, Skis 
$125, B/W Photo Enlarger $75, Jensen Home 
Speakers $100. Call 828-0673
Handy person needed: for painting and some 
landscaping. We will supply all materials. Please 
call 751-9639, leave name or 621-0610.
Newly appointed faculty seeks spacious fur
nished home to rent or possibly purchase. 
919-966-2836. Days.
Discount on over 50 brands of audio and 
video equipment. Call Hal at 687-2859.
POOH No, I mean really, really..Ml
Professional typing service, resumes, correspondance, business, personal papers, 
creative typing, etc. IBM Selectric II, pica/elite 
^pefaces. Prompt service, quality: 521-7888.
Bathing suits/books all need bring to com
pletely furnished summer sublet w/fall option. 
Washer/dryer, free driveway parking! W/w 
carpet. Shadyside. 621-1363.
COUNSELORS NEEDED for summer camp 
in Pocono MountainsW.S.I., lifeguards, arts 
and crafts, woodshop, computer, riflery, archery 
sports. Instructors also needed. Privately ownd, small, unique co-ed childrens camp. For 
nformation and application call locally, evenngs or weekends, 731-3742 or 682-2688; or 
rite Jim Daschbach 7911 Union St., Pgh., PA 
15218.
NANNY: NEEDED by professor for infant and 
toddler. 8am-6pm Mon - Fri in Frick Park area 
home. References. 242-3532.
SATIN AND LACE BRIDAL SHOPPE: Sam
ple wedding gown sale. All gowns 50% off. 
Prices range $175-$400.00. For appointment 
call 885-7077.
SATIN AND LACE BRIDAL SHOPPE: Wide 
selection of bridal styles abailable. Most gowns 
under $500.00. For appointment call 
885-7077.
NOTARY PUBLIC 4415 5th Avenue. Webster 
Hall, 1st floorOakland. 687-3233.
Actress Wanted for Private Party to serve as 
maitre d on 4/30. Call 471-3779. Uniform 
required.
The Virgin Mary: Handmaiden of the Lord 
or the Queen of Heaven. A conference to ex
plore some of the issues of Mariology as they 
impact contemporary Christian women on Sat. 
April 26; 12:30-5:00 p.m. at Lutheran Univer
sity Center 4515 Forbes. Cost $7.00; register 
by April 23 by calling 682-6886.
APARTMENT FOR RENT-Sq. Hill graduate 
students. 5701 Forbes Ave, 2 BR apt, 2 rooms 
down, 2 up. All utilities included, $370.00 per 
month. 261-1505 and 421-9208 available May 
1.
TYPINGWORD PROCESSING Disserta 
tions, Papers$2.50 per page. Resumes and 
Manuscripts. REVISIONS-NO PROBLEM! 
FREE DELIVERY. Compu-Aid, Inc. 
765-2133.
Highway, Traffic, & Street Signs. Official. 
Send $1 for catalogue. De-sign Store, P.O. Box 
2781, Palm Beach, FL 33480.
SENIOR PORTRAITS Fraternities, groups, 
experienced studio photographer will come to 
your location, days, evenings, weekends, call 
day, evening, 322-7207
Summer, Fall Rooms: Large, Clean, Sunny! 
Quiet, Cool, Fun Coed House. Unbuggy. Call 
683-7315 today. 600 second walk away.
DISTINCTIVE WEDDING INVITATIONS, 
ANNOUNCEMENTS, STATIONERY for all
occasions. FABULOUS SELECTION, DIS
COUNT PRICES. J.R. Stationery, shown by ap
pointment. 243-0380.
PARTIES, PARTIES, PARTIES-We have
everything for your party in our 10,000 square 
foot party supermarket. PAPERMART, Baum 
Blvd at Morewood Street. 681-8900.
DARE TO ENTER THE EXCITING HELD
of quality food service? Wendys, in the 
Shadyside area is hiring. Please call 687-3670. 
Were open 24 hours.
ACT NOW! DISKETTES Bulk 5-1/4 DS/DD. 
49 cents each. Lots of 50. These are not 
seconds. MONEY BACK GUARANTEE. No 
questions asked. Call MEI, 1-800-634-3478, 
9-9 EST M-F; 10-6 Sat. Offer expires 5/15/86.
Theatre StudentsModels Quality Black & 
White Photography for promotional head shots 
& portfolios. Very reasonable rates and flexi
ble hours. Call between 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. 
Monday-Friday 782-2989.
Announcements
Samba. Carnegie Mellon Drama Department 
presents Samba April 15 through April 18 and April
22 through April 27. All performances are at 8 pm 
and the Saturday matinee is at 2 pm, April 26 in 
Kresge Theatre, CFA. For more information call 
268-2407.
Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation. Hunt 
Institute exhibits over 70 examples of botanical prints 
from April 21 through July 31. The show traces the 
curious and colorful history of printing botanical im
ages over five centuries. Open to the public free of 
charge. The exhibition is on display in the Penthouse 
of the Hunt Library from 8:30 am to noon and 1 
pm to 5 pm, Monday through Friday.
Pittsburgh Center for die Arts. Judith Sullivan 
presents Fresh Art, multimedia objects, April 26 
through May 18 at the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts, 
Fifth and Shady Avenues. Opening April 26 from 
6 pm to 9 pm.
Old Allegheny Festival Choir holds auditions. The
Old Allegheny Festival Choir, under the direction of 
Philip Aley, is holding auditions for all voice parts. 
For more information and to schedule an audition, 
contact director Philip Aley at 475-3436.
Veterans Memorial Scholarship Fund. The 1986
Coors Veterans Memorial Scholarship Fund provides 
more than $500,000 to the sons and daughters of 
American veterans. To be eligible for consideration, 
applicants must have completed at least one year of 
college, have a cumulative grade-point average of at 
least 2.75 on a 4.0 scale and be under 22 years of 
age as of July 1, 1986. Applicants must be 
dependents of American service personnel who were 
killed in action, are missing in action or who died 
in the line of duty. The student may reside anywhere 
worldwide, but must be enrolled full-time in an ac
credited four-year institution of higher education in 
the U.S. Applications can be obtained from local 
Coors distributors or participating veterans organiza
tions, by writing Coors Veterans Memorial Scholar
ship Fund, P. O. Box 7529, Wheeling, II. 60090, 
or by calling toll-free to 1-800-49COORS. Deadline 
for completed applications and materials is July 1. 
Buhl Science Center. Comet Hailey: Once in a 
Lifetime4 is presented through May at 2 pm, Mon
day through Friday; 11 am and 2 pm, Saturday; and
2 pm and 4 pm, Sunday.
Buhl Science Center. 'Magic Sky, presented 
through May, provides younger students with an in
troduction to the magic of the planetarium environ
ment and the movement of objects in the sky at 12:30 
pm, Saturday and 3 pm, Sunday.
Buhl Science Center. Laserium. Journey to an 
energetic and colorful world where blazing lights and 
magical images glow, gyrate and flash to music by 
rocks most spectacular artists in Laserium, presented 
live under the stars at 8 pm and 9:15 pm, Thursday 
through Sunday; and 3 pm, Saturday, through May. 
For more information call 321-5554.
Buhl Science Center. Brighten your world with 
COLOR, the sparkling exhibit. Nineteen do-it-yourself 
modules explore the mysteries behind everyday color 
phenomena. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm to 5 pm, 
Sunday through Friday; and 10 am to 5 pm, Satur
day. For more information call 321-4300.
Buhl Science Center. Sci-Tech 86. A selection of 
award winners from the 1986 Science and Engineer
ing Fair is on display through May 24. 
Frankenstein Exhibit. An exhibit on Frankenstein 
is presented through April 30 from 1:30 pm to 4:30 
pm or by appointment in the Fine Book Room, Hunt 
Library fourth floor.
What do they 
pack styrofoam in?
PARTS 
REPAIRS 
ACCESSORIES 
PICK-UP RETURN 
USED "CW1PUS CRUISERS' 
731-5604
RESEARCII ASSOCIATE POSITION 
1 he Department of Epidemiology. Graduate 
School of Public Health. University of Pitts*^rgh invites applications for a Research 
Associate position. The position requires an ad
vanced degree in Statistics, knowledge of com
puter languages, systems analy sis and statistical 
methods, and experience in data analysis of 
targe medical data sets and computing Tb^ 
successf111 candidate will lv* Sponsible'for
in 3 rg C*a,<1 ' ',,,ec,on forms and maintain-  -Sea base systems, conducting statistical 
analyses, preparing reports on the statistical 
methodologies, and interpretation of results. The 
Position is available immediately for a duration 1 "vo years Salary will be commensurate with 
xperience. Send letter,of intent, curriculum vitae 
ln(i the names of three references to: Dr. 
Katherine \l. Detrc. Department of Epidemiology, 
graduate School of Public 1 Icalth. University of 
Jtsburgh, Pittsburgh. PA 15261 Tl IE UNIYERITv OF PITTSBURGH IS AN EQUAL OPPOR- 1 N1TY/AFF1R\IATIYE ACTION EM PI DYER.
Wo teaturv C.M cars lik.* this C hew C hivetti'
Be a Road Scholar
Get an "A" in getting around 
town. You can rent a car if you're 
18 or older, have * ^iveYs 
license, current student I D. and 
a cash deposit. Stop by and fill 
out a short cash qualification 
form at least 24-hours in advance.
You pay for gas used and return
carh\^r.unKlocation. Most 
major credit cards accepted.Nonrdiscountable rate applies to Chevy Chevette or similar-size car and is subject to change without notice. Rates slightly lower for drivers over 25. Specific cars subject to availability. Certain daily minimums apply. Weekend rate available from noon Thwsday to Monday. Call for details.
23
95PER DAY WEEKENDS150 FREE miles per day. Additional mileage 12 per mile.
// Nationai Car Rentalm
Available at:
261-5500
682-1444
Camegie-Mellon deserves National attention*
434 Boulevard of the Allies 
4621 Forbes Avenue (Oakland)

---------------------------------------------------

Events
Cape Cod Summer Job Bureau. Cape Cod, 
Massachusetts and the off* shore islands of Nantucket 
and Marthas Vineyard have more good paying jobs 
open to students and teachers this summer than ever 
before. Hiring continues through June, but the choice 
jobs generally go to those who apply earliest. For im
mediate information on the many kinds of jobs 
available and details on how to apply, send a selfaddressed stamped envelope to: Cape Cod Summer 
Job Bureau, Box 594, Room 8, Barnstable, MA 
02630.
Pittsburgh Playhouse Junior Childrens Theatre.
Little Red Riding Hood. Everybody loves Little Red 
Riding Hood...except that ding dong Wolf ...and to 
tell you the truth the Wolf is fond of her too; however 
he is kind of bashful and doesnt like to admit it very 
much...which is kind of silly but that is the way he 
is. Also in our play is Little Red Riding Hoods Gran
ny... and she is just great and nice and you will love 
her forever and ever at 11 am and 2:30 pm, Satur
days; and 2:30 pm, Sundays; through May 31. 
Carnegie Mellon University Art Gallery. Abstrac
tion: Abstraction is shown from March 15 through 
April 27. Sam Gilliams paintings are exhibited in 
Gallery A. while five emerging abstract artists are ex
hibiting their work in Gallery B. Gallery hours are 
10 am to 5 pm, Tuesday through Friday; 11 am to 
5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm to 4 pm, Sunday. The 
Gallery is at 407 South Craig Street.
Forbes Gallery. Tim Sullivan, Catherine Mon
tgomery and Chris Fetter present their work through 
April 27. Gallery hours are 11 am to 6 pm, Wednes
day through Friday and noon to 5 pm, Saturday and 
Sunday. Opening April 22 from 7 pm to 9 pm. 
Refreshments served.
Intervarsity Christian Fellowship. Daily prayer 
meetings are held at 6 pm in the Chapel, Skibo room 
39, Monday through Saturday.
\ olunteers. The Mt. Hood National Forest in the 
Cascade Range near Portland, Oregon, is looking for 
volunteers to work during the 1986 field season. 
Typical jobs include campground hosts, wilderness 
rangers, timber sale layout, trail maintenance, road 
surveying, fuels and fire projects. For applications, 
contact the College Placement Office or Linda Good
man, Mt. Hood National Forest, 2955 NW Division 
Street, Gresham, OR 97030.
Scholarship Information. Students interested in 
receiving additional financial aid to attend college 
should write to the Scholarship Bank for a free copy 
of their new publication How to Play Grantsmanship. The publication lists available grants and 
scholarships from private financial aid sources. Send 
a business-size, stamped, self-addressed envelope to 
The Scholarship Bank, 4626 N. Grand, Covina, CA 
91724.
American Electronics Association. The American 
Electronics Association is seeking 12 U.S. graduate 
students in electrical and computer engineering or 
computer science to work in the research laboratories 
of Japanese electronics companies starting in the fall 
of 1986 after summer language instruction. For fur
ther information and application materials, graduate 
students should contact the Engineering Deans of
fice on campus, or the American Electronics Associa
tion at 415-857-9300.
Pittsburgh Filmmakers: Ran, 7 pm, Wednesday; 
6:30 pm and 9:30 pm, Friday; 3 pm, 7 pm and 9:50 
pm, Saturday; and 3 pm and 7 pm, Sunday; through 
April 27, at 101 Sixth Street. Admission $4.
Pittsburgh Camerata Highlights English Music. 
Pittsburgh Camerata presents concerts of vocal music 
from the courts and cathedrals of Tudor England. 
The program, titled England Be Glad,* features 
motets and mauTigzb by sixteenth- century com
posers as William Byre, Thomas Weelkes, John 
Dowland and Orlando Gibbons at 8 pm, Monday, 
April 28 at Linway Presbyterian, Church, 600 
GreC.n8burg Avenue, North Versailles; 3 pm, Sun
day, May 4 at Fine Arts Auditorium in Oakland 
and 8 pm. May 21 at St. Paul's Episcopal Church, 
1066 Washington Road, Mt. Lebanon. All conceits 
open to the public. For more information call 
422-8445.
22
Tuesday
Movies
Midnight Cowboy, starring Dustin 
Hoffman, Jon Voight and Sylvia Miles. Powerful film 
about a New York husder who sells himself to anyone, 
and the affection he develops for a native Texan. 
Three Oscars. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 
9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Sports
Golf. Home game against Duquesne University at 1 
pm.
Lectures
Graduate School of Industrial Administration 
Seminar. Stan Pliska, Northwestern Universitys 
Department of Industrial Engineering and Manage
ment Sciences, addresses a joint IMS/OR Seminar 
on Optimal Inspections of Stochastically 
Deteriorating Systems,1 at 4 pm in GSIA room 316.
Music
Percussion Ensemble Concert. John Soroka, direc 
tor, performs at 8 pm in the Alumni Concert Hall 
CFA.
Chamber Music Concert. Michael Litman, cello; 
Paul Silver, viola; Robert Kesselman, bass; assistant 
concertmaster Huei-Sheng Kao, violin; and Catherine 
Kautsky, piano; of the Pittsburgh Symphony are 
featured in a free chamber music concert at 8 pm 
in the School of Music Recital Hall, Duquesne 
University.
23
Wednesday
Movies
Thursday
24
Entre Nous, starring Isabell Huppert, Guy Marchand and Miou-miou. Fascinating film 
about two women who have poor marriages during 
WWII. They meet again after the war and their new 
found friendship helps dissolve their marriages. Pitt
sburgh Playhouse at 7:30 and 9:30 pm. Admission 
S2.95.
Sports
Mens Tennis. Home match against Grove City Col
lege at 3 pm.
Mens Track and Field. Away meet against Bethany 
College and Washington and Jefferson College at 3 
pm at Bethany.
Lectures
Department of Mechanical Engineering Guest 
Lecture Series. Professor Wilson C. Hayes, Beth 
Israel Hospital, Harvard Medical School, speaks on 
Fracture Risk Prediction in the Human Skeleton1 
at 3:15 pm in Scaife Hall Auditorium. Coffee and 
donuts are served at 2:45 pm in the Scaife Hall 
Lounge room 322.
Graduate School of Industrial Administration 
Seminar. Dr. Prakash Rao, Corporate Research and 
Development, General Electric Company, speaks on 
Factories of the Future4 at 3:30 pm in the GSIA 
Deans conference room.
Music
Duquesne University Symphony Band Concert. 
The Duquesne University Symphony Band, under the 
direction of Dr. Robert Cameron, presents a free con
cert at 8 pm in the Duquesne Union Ballroom. For 
more information call 434-6080.
Clubs
AIESEC, an international, 8tudent-ru )'Jsiness 
organization, offers a world of experience, both prac
tical and cultural. Meetings are held at 4:30 pm in 
Skibo room II.
French Table. The Modern Languages Program 
sponsor? a French Language Table every Wednes
day at noon in the morewood Cafeteria.
Movies
The Draughtsmans Contract,
starring Janet Suzman and Anthony Higgins. Black 
comedy about an artist who takes commissions from 
the mistress of an estate. He insists on sexual favors 
in return. Off-the-wall film. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
House of Wax, sponsored by AB films at 6 pm in 
DH 2210. Admission $1.
The Fly, sponsored by AB films at 8 pm in DH 
2210. Admission $1.
The Raven, sponsored by AB films at 10 pm in DH 
2210. Admission $1.
Lectures
Department of Psychology Colloquium Series. 
Dr. Stuart Card, Xerox Palo Alto Research Center, 
speaks on Using Graphical Displays to Help With 
Complex Cognitive Tasks at 4 pm in the Adamson 
Wing. Coffee is served before the lecture in the 
Psychology Lounge BH 336-D.
Music
Junior Recital. Kathryn Eva, violin, and Leslie 
Ringley, horn, perform at 8 pm in the Alumni Con
cert Hall CFA.
Special Events
Museum of Art Special Programs and Events.
Parent/Child ARTexpress provides weekly activities 
for adults and children from 10 am to 11:30 am 
every Thursday. Advance registration. For more in
formation call 622-3241.
Clubs
German Table. The Modern Languages Program 
sponsors a German Language table at noon in the 
Morewood Cafeteria.
CMU Explorers Club. If youre interested in rock 
climbing, kayaking, caving and hiking, come to a 
meeting at 6:30 pm in BH 131B. Trips every 
weekend. Beginners are welcome.
25
Friday
Movies
Music
Junior Recital. Timothy LeFebvre and Kevin Charbonneau, voice, perform at 8 pm in the Alumni Concert Hall CFA.
Clubs
Intervarsity Christian Fellowship. Large group 
meetings are held at 7 pm in Skibo room 12.
26
Saturday
Movies
Back to the Future, starring
Michael J. Fox, Crispin Glover and Lea Thompson. 
Already becoming a classic. A frustrated high-school 
student finds himself back 30 years where he en
counters his parents as unmarried teenagers. 
Wonderful. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 
pm and 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Amadeus, sponsored by AB films at 6 pm, 9 pm 
and midnight in DH 2210. Admission $1.
Sports
Mens Tennis. Away match against John Carroll 
University at 1 pm.
Mens Track and Field. Home meet against Grove 
City College at 1 pm.
Golf. Griffin Invitational at Allegheny College.
Womens Track and Field. Indiana invitational at
10 am.
Music
Carnegie Mellon Preparatory School Brass Band.
Denis Colwell, director, performs at 11:30 am in the 
Alumni Concert Hall CFA.
Graduate Recital. John Wehrle, voice, performs at 
8 pm in the Alumni Concert Hall CFA.
27
Sunday
Movies
A Chorus Line, starring Michael 
Douglas, Alyson Reed and Gregg Burge. Film ver
sion of the hit Broadway play about dancers audi
tioning for a big musical show. Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7:30 pm, 9:40 pm and 11:50 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Diner, sponsored by AB films at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 
pm and midnight in DH 2210. Admission $1.
Sports
Golf. Griffin Invitational at Allegheny College. 
Lectures
Carnegie Mellon Visiting Writers Series. Adam
son Student Writing Awards are presented at 8 pm 
in the Adamson Wing. Guest speaker is Alison Lurie, 
ction writer.
Materials Science and Seminar
Series. M.J. Shankernarayanan speaks on A Study 
of Doubly Oriented Polymers: DeformationMorphology-Properties4 at 3:30 pm at 823 Benedum 
Hall. Refreshments are served in room 848 Benedum 
Hall following the presentation.
Royal Wedding, starring Fred 
Astaire and Jane Powell. Fine dancing highlights this 
musical about a brother and sister dancing in 
London- each looking for romance. Astaire does his 
famous dancing on the ceiling in this one. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Music
Graduate Recital. Linda Doughty, flute, performs 
at 3 pm in the Alumni Concert Hall, CFA.
Student Recital. Andrew Luciano, piano, performs 
at 8 pm in the Alumni Concert Hall, CFA.
28
Monday
Movies
The Fourth Man, starring Jeroen 
Krabbe and Renee Soutendijk. A writer of gothic 
thriller has an affair with a mysterious woman so 
he can get close to the womans regular lover. Lots 
of symbolism in this one. Pittsburgh Playhouse 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Graduate School o' .^ustrial Administration 
Seminar. John Rockart, Massachusetts e
Technology, speaks on Management Information 
Systems at 3:30 pm in GSIA room 227.
t Jit a 05 *?flf rtf -Hi J Jl Dm!/iiififc! fi.sonvrnA to r'.uo/ *>rit v.f

---------------------------------------------------

F eaturesThe Inside
By JOSHUA M. LEVINE
Tartan Features Editor
And never, never let them see you 
sweat. If there is anyone really qualified 
to lecture on good sales techniques, its 
got to be IBM, and luckily for us, they 
also realize the value of good PR. Last 
Wednesday Mr. Robert Berini, IBM 
Branch Manager, came to CMU to share 
his insights. In his two hour talk, he in
spired many, intrigued some, but enter
tained all.
Make them think they want it seam
ed to sum up IBMs sales policy well. A 
good salesperson does his homework, 
find out the buyers needs and twist them 
to suit your offers. Allways make him feel 
like hes getting the good end of the deal.
No earth shaking advice, but it never 
hurts to restate it.
It doesnt matter what your selling, its 
how you sell yourself. If you can put on 
a good act, youll go far in sales. So the 
first thing is to make buddies with the 
buyer. Mr. Berini let us in on one of his 
litte schemes. Before the sales call, give 
the secratary a call. Pry up some tid-bit 
from the targets personal life. So, Mr. 
Executive, I hear you shoot a mean bir
die down at Expensive Country Club...
Phase One of the sales call is complete, 
he loves you.
The next step is easy, just sit back and 
pretend to listen to his bragging, interjec
ting an occasional Really?, Wow!, 
or Incredible. But as Mr. Berini 
pointed out, a sales call is a sales call. Some 
how you must change the subject to your pro
duct. I know what you mean about those crazy 
Mets, just imagine what they could do with an 
IBM XT!
Story on Selling the IBM Way
Now comes the tough part, the actual selling. 
Youve got to be quick on your feet, never 
defensive, have a reply to every objection, and 
always agree with the customer. Although this 
may sound impossible to us civilians, Mr. Berini
was living proof that its just a matter experience 
and talent.
After an hour and a half of making it all sound 
so easy, Mr. Berini brought up a semi-volunteer 
from the audience. Mr. Berini played the typical
apathetic, uninterested businessman, 
while Seth Kaplan tried convince him to 
participate in AIESEC, the organization 
responsable for the evenings talk. It 
quickly became very apparent just how 
hard selling really is.
In all, Mr. Berinis advice was basic, 
accurate, and to the point. He did not 
give us any magic sales lines or sure-fire 
schemes, just good, clean guidelines for 
the inexperienced. For those who ex
pected to hear that IBM teaches all of its 
salemen hypnosis, there was a letdown. 
IBM seams to earn their customers the 
old fashioned way, simple, but proven 
salesman psychology. It is almost 
refreshing to hear someone admit that 
they work for a living.
Then, of course, the selling really 
started. Mr. Berini broke out his litde IBM 
PC laptop. I have never seen such a cute 
computer. At 13 lbs., this is one of the 
first truely portable computers I have ever 
seen. He gave us the whole run down: 
3V4 drives, 2 printer, snap on modem, 
IBM PC compatibility, even a software 
demo. Now, you would think no salesman 
would have a harder time than trying to 
sell a computer to a CMU student, but 
Mr. Berini handled himself impressive
ly. He fought off critisisms from MacPeople and Andrewists alike, with eloquence 
and poise. By the end of his presentation, 
he could have gotten thirty orders on the 
spot. The IBM winning combination was 
clear: a solid product backed by a solid 
sales force.Mr. Berini s lecture was sponsored by Carnegie Mellon AIESEC, the campus chapter of a international exchange program for business inter- ships abroad.
Someone Finaly Asks: Why No Presents
By CILFF MODE
Tartan Staffwriter
Well, its that time of the year again and Im 
psyched and ready. You probably think that Im 
so eagerly refering to Carniyal86 but Im real
ly talking about Passover, that holiday among 
holidays. I think that everyone on campus is just 
insecure about admitting it as well, trying to con
vince everyone else that theyre really psyched 
for Carnival. Well, I see right through it. The 
fraternities totally went gung ho! in trying to 
cover up this latent anxiety about Passover by 
building elaborate and creative booths. Yeah, 
you guys are really excited about this thing I 
bet, but if you dont keep kosher, the shay gets 
will hit the fan.
Among other things, one who is celebrating 
Passover isnt supposed to eat bread. This rules 
out the Tartan and MOREpizza but we still have 
Kiltie, Ah, Kiltie Cafe where we can avoid bread 
if we try hard enough. Dont try any funny stuff 
either like putting bread and other prohibited 
foods in your pockets or other places just to be 
able to sacreligiously stuff your face when your 
alone. I dont think you could live with yourself 
after that, I certainly couldnt.
There are ways around the problem of 
scrutinizing everything that enters your mouth 
during Passover. If you look around the super
market you can find all sorts of food that by 
some modern day miracle has been ordained 
as kosher. I swear on my life that I've seen 
kosher twinkies. Naturally I had to buy several 
to fully attain the religious piety that I should 
gain from eating kosher twinkies. To my amaze
ment, there is kosher soda as well. Phew!!! At 
least now I know that during Passover I can still 
rot my teeth. Almost any commonly known food 
can be bought in a kosher version. I just want 
someone to tell me how you would go about 
making a twinkie kosher. I mean, were talking 
about one down rabbi who can see the need 
for twinkies for the youth of America.
I see some connection between the 
significance of Passover and the mentality ram
pant throughout the entire campus. Passover is 
a yearly rememberance of the once harsh treat
ment of Jewish people in Egypt. Well, I think 
it would make a great occasion to remember the 
cruel treatment of students right here at CMU. 
Its almost the end of the year and were about 
to be vindicated for about four months so why 
not take a week out of your life to remember 
those who didnt pass Diffy Qs and also those 
who spent the entire year in the library due to 
unruly noise in their dorm or frathouse. These 
are truly our present day martyrs. If youre still 
skeptical, what about those poor people who 
paint the fence and then sit and watch that it 
doesnt go anywhere for the entire night. They 
make this country safe. Passover has the poten
tial to become really big here at CMU only if 
people realize that the true heroes are right in 
front of us or at least have just recently passed 
away from the mentioned atrocities.
Keeping kosher will have to be sort of redefin
ed. All of you know now what the rudiments 
of keeping kosher are. Well, instead of looking 
for food with kosher markings on them, limit 
yourself to eating UDS food for the week or so. 
No Capri, Fiorenzo, Little Italy, .or especially 
Dominos. When youre feeling most devout, 
limit yourself to just Kiltie. This version of keep
ing kosher is called keeping Kiltie. It will 
definitely separate the followers from the true 
believers. I think we can get the school to supply 
yamachas for everyone. Whats a yamacha? No 
its not a motorcycle, it's a beanie. Presents 
would definitely add to the flavor of it all. 
Christmas and Chanukah both REQUIRE the 
giving of presents, it would be corrupt not to. 
Well, whats wrong with this way of looking at 
it for Passover? A traditional thing to do for 
Passover is to hide a piece of Matzah(unleavened bread) and let the youngest kid 
in the family go find it. This is the 80 s and I
dont know many four year olds who care about 
unleavened bread or much else. Try hiding a 
CD player or a beautiful blonde. Let the most 
deprived member of each class participate. Get 
them off the computer and into the fresh air. 
This actually sounds fun, maybe Ill even play. 
An event like this one could truly bring the cam
pus together.
Call me disrespectful, sacreligious, wrong, or 
just plain stupid, I dont care because Im 
psyched about Passover and the possibilities it 
holds for CMU students of the near future. Let 
everyone else believe that Carnival was the
for Passover?
cause for the anxiety felt at this time of the year 
all over campus.
One final thing, during Passover it is tradi
tional to keep your door open. This is so the 
Prophet Elijah can enter and sip your wine with 
you. Well, this year Elijah is going to be wear
ing a CMU T-shirt and will be about 57 with 
brown hair and brown eyes. Make sure you 
welcome him and wish him well. Hell take your 
name and number down if youre in favor of 
the changes mentioned in this document. 
Monetary donations and food will also be ac
cepted. Until next time.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanApril 22, 1986EARN $1000 PER WEEK IN SUNNY ALASKA
By J. MATHEW LEVINE
Tartan Features Editor
You can earn $1000 a week this summer, 
with room and board while working in one of 
the most beatiful parts of the country. Sound 
to good to be true? Well, almost. The place is 
Alaska, the job is fishing, and while it may not 
seem apropos for a dainty dramat to spend the 
summer hauling slimy salmon, the moneys 
good, along with an experience youll never 
forget.
A new book by Josh Groves explains it all. 
From hiching across Canada, to what kind of 
boots to wear, The Best Summer Jobs in Alaska 
tells to whole story.
Mr. Groves, a Brown graduate, spent three 
summers in Alaska, and seems to be very 
knowledgeable. This not a Go for it! book as 
would be expected. Instead, it presents an 
honest look at the life to be expected. Instead 
of round the clock parties, most visitors find 
round the clock shifts. Alaskas crisp, fresh air 
goes unnoticed by the canery workers who know 
only the pungent odor of rancid halibut.
The book covers all the bases, and would be 
useful not only as a backround to help the un
sure, but also as a resource to the determined. 
It comes highly recommended to those who are 
used to spending their summers sipping the 
white wine spritzers with Trish and Papah.
ALASKA
Arnold Air Society
vO Give the Gift of Life!
^ Donate Blood
DATE: Friday April 25 
TIME: 11:00 to 4:45 
PLACE: Skibo Room 42
Bethel
nchorage
Kodiak^
Review copy provided by 
Mustang Publishing 
New Haven, ConnecticutPrince Rupert
FIRST TRINITY LUTHERAN CHURCH 
(Missouri Synod)
531 North Nevil Street. Oakland 
(within walking distance of campus)
ADULT BIBLE CLASS: -9:45 AM 
WORSHIP SERVICE: 11:00 AM 
SUNDAY EVENING FELLOWSHIP: 7:30 
PM at parsonage, 535 N Neville
Pastor Robert Hacler 683-4440
WERSTER HALL
Webster Hall Apartments 
Finest High Rise In 
Oaklands Cultural Center 
EFF. 1-2 BR
Your suite includes: -Heat, A/C, fully 
equipped kitchens,w/w carpeting, 
spacious closets
Cable TV available 
Off street covered parking available 
 Limo & bus at door 
Resident storage space 
Furnished units available 
Weekdays 
9-5621-4132Weekends12-4
Summer Fall Spring
WASHINGTON 
OR LONDON 
INTERNSHIPS
OXFORD
SUMMER
1986
Full Academic Years In
 Oxford University
 L.S.E.
 St. Andrews, Scotland
U.S. credits wiH be transferred 
through Hsmpden-Sydney 
College, founded in Virginia by 
James Madison in 1776. Graduate work is an option. 
The Director of Studies for the 
Center for Quality Education 
Abroad (in Britain) is the Rt. 
Hon. The Lord Beloff, D.Litt. 
(Oxon.), Fellow of the British 
Academy, Professor Emeritus 
of Government and Fellow of 
All Souls, Oxford. 
INQUIRIES TO:
JANET KOLLEK.J.D., 
Admissions D i rector CQEA/ 
WISC, Rm 63,168 W. 81 St., 
NY,NY, 10024.
(212-724-0004/724-0136).
--------------------r-1'. 
THIS BUD S 
FOR YOU.
UOWCISE**)NG Of BE E RS#*AN H EUSER-BOSCH. INC >ST LOUIS
y V .k1. " vt

---------------------------------------------------

HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling r Student Development Center...............268-2922
After 5:00 p.m., an answering service operator will help you reach 
the staff member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh.................................................................782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive 
listening.
Drug Connection.........................................................................854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 59 p.m.
Tel-Aid..........................................................................................281-4664
A series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safe
ty issues. Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh 
telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs.
Womens Health Servicesinc.
For more information return coupon to:
ARIE RQTSHTEIN
ISRAELI COMMUNITY SHALIACH FOR PITTSBURGH 
242 McKEE PLACE
PITTSBURGH, PA 15213 PHONE: 683-7277
Name
Address.
Gyne Care that is 
Woman-Centered
 Professional 6 Convenient
 Female 6 Mole Practitioners
 Complete Check-ups
 Contraceptive Services
During your check-up, ask for your free 
copy of Our Bodies, Ourselves.
Appointments G Information 562-1900107 Sixth Street Downtown Pittsburgh
10 CUT LARGE 
* & 2 LITER PEPSI
THEVolu
IZZA
gPirIu ps
<
^ ^ 681-2202 or 681-2203

---------------------------------------------------

pii
Deposit Required
FIRST WE 
INVENTED IT. 
THEN WE SENT IT 
TO COLLEGE.
BUY 5 SONY 3.5" DISKS ... GET A FREE 
STORAGE CASE WITH COLLEGE EMBLEM!
disks that perform to the highest standards, it s 
a smart move to go to the source. And were 
smart enough to know you need a place to putSl CM,
your disksso when you buy 5 Sony 3.5" 
Micro Floppydisks, well give you a free 
storage case with wr 
your college emblem! O v-J- W * *
Computer Store
$9.99
Your favorite Wendys, Arbys, Kentucky Fried Chicken, etc delivered to your dorm. 
Can687-FOOD
5:00 pim. to Midnite 7 Days a Week. Dorms/Fraterpities/Sororities Only
Collegiate Delivery Services, Inc.
------------------------------
jBSP*
s
/IKORVED
V. CLASS RINGS
Thursday & Friday,
April 24 & 25 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Baker Hall
PLACE
I9S5 ArtOwed Class Rings
Increase your
waMtto tutoring program 
och WMk
iMkl
tunday Ihru ihunday 7pm100m
Calculus -  
ftlM
Physics?-
ChemMryPH-22*
Engflshasa 
second language
BH -1356
EconomicsPH-22
Intro to ComputingWIH-541S
Financial AccountingPH-226C
Academic Writing ProblemsBH -2356

---------------------------------------------------

1st place- Terri Hughson 
2nd placeLeeyanne Jacobson 
Mens Foil:
1st place- John S. Bowers 
2nd placeSteve Locrero 
Teams 3- Weapon:
1st place* Scar Tissue 
2nd*The Slinkfes.
3rd-The Untouchables.
4th-DU.
5th- The Barking Pumpkins.
SOFTBALL WIN/LOSS LEADERS 
Majors
EAST: Gertrudes Saloon (3-0)
WEST: Beta A Stars (1-0), SUPA (1-0)
ILOApil (A): Math Grads (3-0)
DARK SIDE (D): K-Team (2-0) 
fINAL CUT (F): Chiefs (2-0), Alabama Slam
7th- A Team Without A N 
8th- The Nebbishers
Commissioner: E.J. Birdy x2214
Commissioner: Mike Goddard x8651
April 22, 1986The Tartanintramural Report...
Gert s Saloon leads Majors softball; Carozza honored
THIS MATCH PLAYED!!! Report score to IM 
office.
Backgammon
Commissioner: Todd Bross 682-5134 
Campus Champion: DU
Floor Hockey
Commissioners:
Majors- Rob Schlackman 683-3739 
Minors- Paul Pecora x6614 or 621-9124 
Playoff schedule is on the bulletin board.
Table Tennis
Commissioner: Stuart Fox x4272 
Round 4 losers bracket must be played before 
Thursday, April 24; Round 5 losers bracket 
must be played before Monday, April 28.
ill Pool (Team) 
jmmissioner: Scott Bale x4314 
lease get the finals played!!
all Pool (Individual)
ommissioner: Scott Bale x43l4 
lease report the final campus champion.
Co-rec Badminton 
Commissioner: Stuart Fox x4272 
Tournament DateTuesday, April 22nd at 
7:00 p.m.
Indoor Soccer 
Commissioner: Vince Carozza 
Playoffs stasi Monday, April 21st.
GRAD UA TES
CALL
1-800-457-4065FOR $400 ANDPRE-APPRVED
CREDIT ON A 
NEW FORD
Its Easy To Qualify 
For $400 from Ford 
Motor Company
 You must receive at 
least a bachelors degree 
or a state RN license 
between October 1, 1985 
and September 30, 1986.
For Pre-approved 
Credit from Ford 
Credit
B You must have verify 
able employment that 
begins within 120 days 
of your qualifying vehicle purchase at a salary 
sufficient to cover ordinary living expenses and 
your vehicle payment.
 Your credit record, if 
you have one, must indicate payment made as 
agreed.
 And dont forget...you 
must receive at least a 
bachelors degree or a 
state RN license between 
October 1, 1985 and September 30, 1986.
These Vehicles Are 
Included In The Plan
Ford: Escort, Escort EXP, 
Tempo, Mustang, 
Thunderbird 
Mercury: Lynx, Topaz, 
Capri, Cougar 
Ford Truck: Aerostar, 
Bronco II, Ranger, 
F-150 & F-250
You are eligible for $400 
even if you dont finance 
your purchase. Use it 
toward your down payment or get a check from 
Ford after the purchase 
or lease.
The amount of your pre
approved credit is determined by the qualified 
vehicle you buy.
If a vehicle is not in 
dealer stock, it must 
be ordered by June 1, 
1986. Delivery of all 
vehicles must be taken 
by August 31, 1986.
For complete details on 
how to get your $400 
plus pre-appro*d credit, 
call the toll-free number 
today. , 
1-800-457-4065
m
Fencing
Commissioner: Jane Fisk-Nice job 
Results list on IM bulletin board.
Ultimate Frisbee
Commissioner: Eric Burgerson x4388 
Schedules are posted on 1BI bulletin board 
Please report scores to Eric.
Softball
Commissioners:
Majors- Scott Walker 682-3156 
Intermediates- Rob LeVine x449?
Minors- Mike Grzywinski x4652 
Please try to get two games out of each new soft
ball. Please return all equipment to IM shed 
after last game. Officals must work assigned 
Ties. Please note winning scores on 
score sheets. Need a playoff starting date.
SPORTS COMING UP 
Track
Commissioner: Paul Pecora x6614 
Meet date is Wednesday, April 23rd on CMU 
track. Everyone is welcometeam or 
individual there will be heats in all events for 
women only.
OLD BUSINESS 
IM Man-of-the-Year
Election was April 3rd. Vince Carozza1985-86 Man-of-the-Year!
Sommations for 1986-87 IN President
Nominees: Paul Pecora, Pat McMullen
VEXT MEETING
The next meeting wifi be held on Sept. 4,1986 
at 12:30 in the IM Office.
BLOOD DRIVE
We Want to Suck 
Your Blood
Sponsored by: 
The Arnold Air Society
DATE: Friday 
Tim: 11:00 to 
PLACE:

---------------------------------------------------

3 PIZZA PIZZA PIZZA PIZZA
-Ar 81OIVY STREET
T WOYEAAAAN __ __ _ .. Mon.-Sot. 5 PM-1 AMFREE Delivery Sunday 12 PM-12 am
We sell pizza by the slice
2NN
>
SPECIAL: Order $10.00 or 
more and get a coupon for 
FREE $3 Cheese Pizza.
<NN
<NN
LARGE $
PIZZA
FREE
ter of Coke With Purchase Of Large Pizza
B>
B
WE'LL PAY YOU TO GET INTO 
SHAPE THIS SUMMER.
If you have at least 
two years of college left, 
you can spend six weeks at 
our Army ROTC Basic 
Camp this summer and earn 
approximately $600.
And if you qualify, you 
can enter tne ROTC 2- 
Year Program this fall and 
receive up to $ 1,000 a year.
But the big payoff 
happens on graduation day. 
Thats when you receive 
an officers commission.
So get your body in 
shape (not to mention your 
bank account).
Enroll in Army ROTC. 
For more information, 
contact your Professor of 
Military Science.ARMY ROTC. BEALLYOUCANBE.
Call: 268-2205 
) or stop by 
MMC-B7
COLLEGE GRADUATE FINANCEPROGRAMNOW IN EFFECT
CHOOSE THE FINANCE PROGRAM 
THAT SUITS YOUR NEEDS
1986 PONTIAC STE*
OVER1 AAA BRAND NEW
lUvV 1986 PONTIACS 1986 PONTIAC FIIR0*
* THESE TWO WORLD CLASS AUTOMOBILES ARE LISTED AS 
TWO OF MOTOR TREND'S BEST TEN IN THE WORLD.
GRAND AMSSUNBIRDS
CONVERTIBLESB0NNEVILLESGRAND AM SE'S
PRICESERVICE SELECTION
cusTomm sa tisfaction is our mutsr mom 
MONROEVILLE, PA 
373-3333 247-1600
THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
^ WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS OF CMU
? REASONABLE RENTAL RATES!
^ THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND!
? THE FAIRFAX" ...4614 5th AVE.!
? YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
Furnished Apts. Available
The management invites the Faculty 
Members, Graduate Students & CMU 
Guests to visit and inspect our ONE 
BEDROOM & STUDIO APARTMENTS
Available for immediate occupancy
Dial 621-4030
We'll see YOU at 
THE FAIRFAX" ...Neighbor.
I

---------------------------------------------------

April 22, 1986The TartanPage 27
j^mong the new clubs which were formed this 
ester, is the Carnegie Mellon Weightlifting 
Bodybuilding Club. The Club was foundI be by Charlie Reinhard, Lionel Young, Dave 
rcorhan, and Uday Patnaik. In less than two 
,nths of existence, the Weightlifting and 
idybuilding Club has become the largest 
,rts club on campus, in terms of numbers. 
It is clear that the interests of students here 
iarnegie Mellon are diverse and diffuse. The 
rubers of our club are no exception to this 
le. One of our interests happens to be 
|dybuilding and I firmly believe that the conioning done by the men and women who seek 
se ends functions as a noticeable betterUnt. said Reinhard.
[
 he club was the first organization to gain exded gym hours. Student Senate has since exded gym hours for the entire campus comlinity, but the weight club has had the weight
 )m open on Sunday nights and Saturday mor igs for its members for two semesters, a full 
Bnester before it was open to everyone else. 
Hn addition, the club will be sponsoring its first
bodybuilding event this Thursis
club to sponsor competition Thursday
being directed by Joe Calone, manager of the 
Caber Club, and Charlie Reinhard, a founder 
of the weight club.
This competition is the first of its kind at 
Carnegie Mellon University. Applications have 
been arriving at the Caber Club and so far, Pitt, 
Point Park and Carnegie Mellon have the most 
contestants entered in the competition. As of 
now, equal numbers of men and women have 
been applying to participate.
The event will feature two guest posers, John 
Pappas and Colleen Naccarelli. Both posers are 
former champions; Pappas was the first Pitt
sburgh Collegiate Mens Champion in 1982. He 
had since gone on to win six competitions in 
1985, including North Pittsburgh and interstate 
competitions. Two weeks ago he won the Gold 
Eagle Classic and promises to be to be a big 
in bodybuilding in the future.
The Exercise Company, Third place national 
aerobic dancers will also be performing at the 
event. Topping off the extravaganza will be guest 
appearances of the Steelers offensive tackle, 
Pete Rostosky and the Pirate Parrot, the Pitts
burgh Pirates team mascot.
Sports this Week
Mens Track 
Wednesdayat Bethany3:00 p.m. 
Womens Track 
Saturdayat Indiana10:00 a.m. 
Tennis
WednesdayGrove City3:00 p.m. 
Golf
TodayDusquesne] :00 p.m.
_ photo by Jack L. Poller
jcrosse player Laura Cierello receives a pass in practice early
week.photo by Jack L. PollerCarnegie Mellon players defend their goal during last Fridays game The Tartans topped Allegheny, 11-1.
AEs Blues Brothers lauded; Spirit tickets for sale
Jay Katz
 tan Staffwriter
Bonie more thoughts that I am sure you
I illy do not care about, especially after that
II tame weekend:
jJTl do not understand why everyone takes 
races so seriously. I mean, if it were up 
1 would enter more buggies with themes 
I ilar to the SAE Blues Brothers theme. But 
'?r<itulations anyway to all you who practiced
I * Gained so hard for this years race. I sureH'iild not have done it.
11 do not suppose anyone wants t> bu>
my Pittsburgh Spirit indoor soccer tickets for 
next year.
If youre willing to take indoor soccer
tickets off my hands, then perhaps you would 
like my Pittsburgh Maulers USFL season tickets.
--And if you are willing to buy those
tickets, then I could also get you a good deal 
on Three Rivers Stadium.
Prime time for the NBA playoffs has
begun and I, although realizing that the realistic 
pick is either the LA Lakers or the Boston 
Celtics, think that the Philadelphia 76ers have 
^goad'lihot'trrwiTrit-Hll: Rut-1- do say that-everyvear.
-The Cincinnati Reds finally have a
strong team which I am looking lo go a long 
way with former Pirate MVP Dave Parker and 
everyones favorite, Pete Rose. However, I do 
not even know if they have a team mascot.
-Well look at those Pirates. Already they 
have nearly captured a stronghold on first place.
I even predicted it.
Hopefully this is the year that the NHL 
is embarrassed by their 16 team playoff system. 
Already, underdog teams such as the New York 
Rangers. Hartford Whalers and Toronto Maple
Leafs have defeated their favored opponents. 
If Toronto wins, it will be especially sweet 
because they finished almost at the bottom of 
the league during the regular season. Believe 
me, if the Rangers play the Maple Leefs in the 
Stanley Cup, there will be very little fan interest 
and many disconsolate people in the NHL 
league office.
-If you are not a native Pittsburgher, then 
you will not know that you are escaping the ci
ty just before the big media coverage on the 
Steelers resumes, with the start of the Pro Draft. 
People around here start talking about football 
as. if it were September, not Mav. - . ------ .

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan Sports
Male tracksters win. . .
Track team notches 49th and 50th consecutive victories
The highlight of the 1986 Annual Intramural 
Dinner held in Room 100, Skibo on Tuesday, 
April 15th occurred when Betty Moeslin, the 
security guard on the main entrance of the 
Carnegie Mellon University gym building, was 
presented the 1986 Intramural Boards appreciation award.
This award was started last year and is 
presented by the Intramural Board to the per
son who has given outstanding contributions to 
the Carnegie Mellon Universitys Intramural Program during the past year.
The IM Board elected Betty Moeslin not on
ly for her excellent method of checking securi
ty in the gym building, but also her pleasant 
manner and friendly greetings to all of the In
tramural players who use the gym building.
Betty has been the security person here at 
Carnegie Mellon University for the past four 
years and has made hundreds of friends due 
to her great smile and pleasing personality.
Bettys quote, I love my job here at Carnegie 
Mellon University because everyone has been 
really nice to me. The student always have a 
friendly greeting and smile for me; I feel for
tunate to have a position where I can meet so
Tartan players battle for the ball during last Fridays contest. Carnegie Mellon <u,n< 
out on toP' 11_1-
Betty Moeslin garners 
IM appreciation award
Trackster Damian McKnight practices his starts. McKnight broke the tape in both th 
400 and 110 meter hurdles, in the squads dual meet victory.
Golf squad takes on the 
6big boys; place 10th
By STEW LEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter
Last week, the golf Tartans tried to take on 
the big boys at the Slippery Rock Invitational. 
They came away with a tenth place finish in a 
field of twenty from all three NCAA Divisions, 
and second among Division III rivals, outshot 
by former National Champ Allegheny.
The afternoon was a rough one with cold 
temperatures and high winds inflating the Tar
tans showing to a 426. The golfers were led by 
Mike Fisher who shot a 79 on the course. He 
was followed by Bruce Irvins at 83, and Mike 
Fitterman and Mike Morini who ended the day 
at 84.
According to Fitterman the weather affected 
everyone, but him especially, I was five over 
until the last seven holes, then the temperature 
dropped, the wind picked up, and I went seven 
over on the next three holes. The weather af
fected
play for 45 minutes because of thunderstorms,
Fitterman, who was the gold medalist at " 
PAC Invitational two weeks ago, has had an and down season. Against Westminster I 
played bad, the rest of the time it was 
weather, my scores should come down. A 
beginning of the year, I was playing better 
normal, usually I have trouble at the 
of the year.
The junior also had this to say about the 
and its prospects at the PAC Championships 
two weeks. We have a good shot at the P 
Grove City doesnt have much of a chance, 
Washington and Jefferson has some g 
players, they could do it if they are hot.
The golfers have two more events before 
Championships. Today they are at home 
cross-town rival Dusquesne, and later this 
they travel up to Allegheny for the
many nice people and make so many friends. 
Without a doubt Betty Moeslein is one of the
most popular women on campus and certainly 
deserves the honor of receiving the Intramural 
Boards 1986 Award of Appreciation. 
Congratulations to you Betty!
Thiel on Sunday. The meets, held at Hiram col
lege, were the Tartan's 49th and 50th con
secutive dual meet victories.
Coach Meckley had praise for his squads 
comeback. It was a pretty good overall per
formance. The team showed a little more fire 
this week...We can win the conference cham
pionship if the kids want to win. We took im
portant steps this week, but we need more 
steps.
Versus Hiram, Carnegie Mellon captured 16 
out of a possible 17 first place finishes, rolling 
to 112-33 victory. The only event in which the 
Tartans did not place first, the 800m, the team 
finished second.
They were similarly dominating over Thiel, 
taking 13 firsts as they wiped up with a 105-38 
win.The Tartans had three performers who 
managed to grab double triumphs. Sophomore 
Damian McKnight came out on top in two hurGrove City has a lot of talent. He noted that 
with the graduating seniors, the Tartans had lost 
116 out of 150 some points scored the 
previous year. Were still a young team. Grove 
Citys team is mostly juniors and seniors, while 
we are mostly freshman and sophomores.
One thing that has hurt the Tartans this year 
is injuries. One of our best hurdlers is injured. 
One of our best runners has strep throat...If we 
can get everybody back to full strength, well 
win the conference championship, commented 
Meckley.
Next week, the Tartans have three meets. 
They face Bethany and Washington & Jeffer
son on Wednesday, a contest Meckley con
fidently predicts well win. The big matchup, 
however, is versus Grove City at home on Satur
day. That meet is a toss up. If they get a cou
ple people hurt or sick, we should win. The team 
that gets the most breaks in the next week will 
win.
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager 
The mens track team is once again back on 
the winning trail. They rebounded from their 
unprecedented relay loss to Grove City with 
double dual meet victories over Hiram and
die events, the 400m intermediate and 110m 
high hurdles. Another sophomore, Jeff Luster, 
won the 100 and 200 meter races. The third 
winner,Steve Antonson, took the long jump and 
triple jump.
Looking ahead to the next meets, Coach 
Meckley commented We are on our way. But
