The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 85, Number 7, October 30, 1984.
BT fraternity dismissed
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan News Editor
Carnegie-Mellon University has 
withdrawn recognition of Zeta Beta Tau 
fraternity after a University Disciplinary 
Committee (UDC) hearing concerning the 
October 2 brawl between ZBT brothers and 
members of Korean Students Association 
(KSA).
ZBT will continue to be suspended from 
fraternity activities for the remainder of this 
semester. They have been ordered to move 
out of the house for the spring semester. 
CMU will aid them in finding housing 
accommodations.
There are no details on what disciplinary 
actions will be taken against individuals. Two 
KSA members are reported to have been 
penalized, along with two ZBT members 
and one outsider.
ZBT had no comment. It has been 
reported they will appeal the decision. Ap
peals are heard by a three-member ad
ministration committee.
It was one of the longest hearings the UDC 
has heard. They met for 12 hours on Friday, 
October 19, and six hours on Wednesday, 
October 24, before reaching a decision.
Student Affairs Fraternity Advisor Jay 
Carson said, ZBT was inconsistent with 
regard to their responsibility for peoples 
safety. Mike Banyas (ZBT president) and all 
the brothers worked really hard with their
Ironically, ZBT had the fence painted this
all dry rush. I feel badly that the inconsisten
cy remained, and it came back to haunt 
them. ZBT had the largest pledge class this 
fall, with 37 pledges. There are no plans on 
what will become of the fraternity house, but 
there is a report from a high placed frater
nity council member that other national 
fraternities want to form chapters at CMU.
ZBT has been a fraternity since 1974. 
Before that, the fraternity had been afweek advertising their Halloween party, 
filiated with the Tau Delta Phi fraternity 
since 1929.
Inter Fraternity Council President Bob 
Fishel said, This has never happened 
before. Im not real sure how to react. Some 
fraternities are happy, some are upset, the 
IFC had no say. It did not fall under our 
jurisdiction.
The UDC took into account all the 
events, said Fishel. Im satisfied they did
photo by Heather McCarty
a thorough job. There are still a lot of details 
to be worked out.
ZBT had been suspended for one year in 
the fall of 1983 after an incident involving 
hard alcohol during a rush event.
Dean Braden Walter said, This is one of 
the worst days I have spent on campus. This 
is a very painful decision for me. None of 
us wanted to come to this conclusion, but 
we felt we had no other choice.
CMU Vice Provost Van Houweling resigns
By DON EGGERT
Tartan Sports Editor 
CMU Vice Provost for Computing and 
ming Douglas Van Houweling has
resigned in order to accept a similar posi
tion with the University of Michigan.
Van Houweling originally came to 
Carnegie-Mellon four years ago. His
photo by Bob Fishel
^ugla Van Houweling will leave CMU December 1 for the University of Michigan.
management responsibilities include super
vision of activities in the Computation 
Center, Administrative Systems, Information 
Technology Center (ITC), Center for Design 
of Educational Computing (CDEC), and the 
Telecommunications Office, in addition to 
overseeing the administrative development 
of the Personal Computer deployment plan.
In a memo to the campus community, 
Senior Vice President John P. Crecine 
declared, I would like to acknowledge 
publicly Dougs contributions to the univer
sity, both as a manager and as a spokesman 
for the University in helping us exercise 
leadership  ensuring continued professional 
contact with his many friends at CMU. 
Crecine was out of town and unavailable for 
comment.
Van Houweling will become Vice Provost 
for Information Technology at Michigan 
beginning December 1. He explained that 
the University of Michigan is committed to 
becoming the most advanced public univer
sity in information technology. He added, 
Ive always thought that it is very impo: 
tant for some major public university to take 
the initiative in developing areas of informa
tion technology, and now the University of 
Michigan is.
Although interim arrangements are not 
definite yet, those involved will probably be 
the directors of the centers under Van 
Houwelings managerial direction. Tom Bajzak, Director of the Computation Center, 
said, I know we can do it [continue Van 
Houwelings progress], but there are so many 
things he can do in turning visions into prac
tice that he will be hard to replace.
Jim Morris, Director of ITC, noted the
rapid pace at which technology is changing, 
and state,There are probably some 
organizational changes that will be 
made...but in three years things will look a 
lot different anyway.
Other administrators who will probably 
have more reponsiblility include Bob Cape, 
Director of Telecommunications, Jill 
Larkin,Director of CDEC, and Ray Scott, 
Director of Administrative Systems.
Van Houweling has agreed to consult with 
the university when needed. He noted, As 
I see the personal computer project head 
from development toward deployment, I 
know I am really going to miss being at the 
end of that. However, what Ill miss here 
more than anything else is the people. ^iIn this issue
News
Election Poll.....................................page 4
Financial Management....................page 6
Features
UDS Abuse......................................page 7
Supercomputer grant......................page 8
Entertainment
Records..........................................page 12
Elton John......................................page 12
Sports
Soccer clinches............................page 15
Football upset................................page 15
Editorial
The Tartan endorses Mondale.. page 20

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanOctober 30, 1984
Student Affairs pians popular campus lounge
By STEPHEN VOLAN
Trtan Staffwriter
The Highlander Room will be transform
ed into a lounge for the exclusive use of 
CMU students, if plans made by Student Af
fairs become reality.
That was the proposal presented by Dean 
Braden Walter at last Tuesday nights Stu
dent Senate meeting in the Wherrett Room. 
The lounge, tentatively called Bar None, 
would help fill in the shortage of student 
relaxation and lounge space in Skibo. The 
lounge would also be completely studentrun and operated.
Walter emphasized his desire to see the 
lounge become a popular night spot for all 
students. We want to establish an atmos
phere, [and] give it real class, he said, in 
his report to the Senate.
The lounge, still pending administrative 
approval, would have nicer furniture than 
present in most dormitory lounges. It would 
be intimately lit, and would serve a limited 
menu of snacks, sandwiches, and non
alcoholic drinks. The lounge would probably 
open in the late afternoon and close around 
two or three a.m. every night.
We want it to be a place where students
can take a study break, get together just to 
relax and have a good time, remarked 
Walter.
In an effort to launch the project quick
ly, the lounge, if approved, would begin on 
a shoestring budget of about $15,000. 
With that amount, and help from outside 
student sources, Walter hopes the 
Highlander Room can be transformed by 
the beginning of next semester. Eventually, 
more than $100,000 might go into making 
the lounge a success.
On the prospect of serving alcoholic 
beverages, Walter pointed out the difficulty 
in obtaining a license to sell alcohol. The 
hassle and expense of buying a used license 
from a distributor going out of business, or 
trying to buy a new permit at an estimated 
cost of $400,000, was considered more trou
ble than it would be worth. In addition, the 
Pennsylvania state drinking age of twentyone would exclude over three-fourths of the 
CMU undergraduate population from even 
entering the lounge.
But a more important reason for serving 
only non-alcoholic drinks, according to 
Walter, would be to encourage the idea that 
alcohol shouldnt be necessary for students
! v
I 
oi
PLAY 
WITH 
A FULL 
DECK!
MONDAY&TUESDAY ONLY!
Order any Pizza and ask for a free deck of Cards.
Fast, Free Delivery
310 N. Craig St. 
Phone:681-1700
1 Free Deck 
of Cards
with any PizzaExpires: 10/30/84
Feat, Free Delivery" 
Limited delivery area 
Our drivers carry less 
than $20 00
 IN4 Oom.no p,tt$ If*
to have a good time. Its been said that par
ties [at CMU] have to be alcoholic to be sue 
cessful, commented Walter. Wed like to 
think that thats not necessarily true, tha. 
this lounge can succeed without it. There are 
enough private and fraternity parties that 
serve alcohol; [the lounge] would be a place 
where everyone [Greeks and non-Greek?; 
alike] can come and enjoy themselves. 
The Highlander Room, traditionally us
ed as an overflow room for events tha 
become too big for the Ballroom or the 
Wherrett Room, is considered the best spo 
for the proposed lounge, because of its loca 
tion and the relatively low frequency of it: 
use. The room is used for formal occasions 
only a few times a year; the student loungi 
would utilize the space much more efficent 
ly, according to Walter, and for a better 
purpose.Before you vote:
Take a look at The Tartan Voters' Guide. Students no longer have to abs
tain from voting or vote straight party line for lack of knowledge about 
minor candidates. All candidates respond to questions concerning social 
issues, economic policy, foreign affairs and other key issues.
CAMPAIGN 84
So take a half hour, 
and Vote For a Change!I
Interested in a Masters Degree in..
ACCOUNTING? 
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION? 
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION?
Discouer Rice Universitys Jesse H. 
Jones Graduate school of 
Administrationa representative will be 
on campus on FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 
1984. For further information, contact 
Career Services & Placement.
Please send on application and a brochure 
about Rice University's JONES GRADUATE 
SCHOOL to:
NAME(please print)_____________________.___________
ADDRESS____________________________________________
CITY_______________________ STATE_____ZIP________
1
COLLEGE or UNIVERSITYDEGREE DATE____________
(713)527-4918
RICE UNIVERSITY 
JONES GRADUATE SCHOOL 
OF ADMINISTRATION 
P.O. BOX 1892 
HOUSTON. TEXAS 77251
Rice University is an equal opponunity/a/firmative action institution

---------------------------------------------------

October 30, 1984The TartanPage 3
Student passes away due to tragic disorder
A memorial service will be held today 
(October 30) at 1:00 p.m. in the Wherrett 
Room in honor of Jennifer Morris, a junior 
design student who passed away October 20.
Jennifer had flown to her home in Great 
Neck, New York for mid-semester break, 
and upon departing the plane suddenly took 
ill. She was rushed to the intensive care unit 
of a New York hospital, where she died later 
that day. The cause of death was determin
ed to be an obscure blood disorder. It was 
a sudden thing, said Karen Proietti, Ad
ministrative Assistant in the Design 
Department.
One of Jennifers professors, Bob 
Swinehart, said of Jennifer, She was a per
son who got along well with everybody. She 
had a few close friends, but unlike others she
transcended the cliques that form. She had 
many different opinions, and she always 
communicated them. Jennifer was a very 
persistent, hard working student.
Elena Gialanas spoke of her friend as a 
deep, wise, old lady . Because of tragedies 
that have occured in her life, she became 
that way. Jennifers mother died when Jen
nifer was 12.
Words that were used to describe Jennifer 
were honesty and morality.
She had a very high value system, said 
Gialanas, and a very good understanding 
of people. She was a soothsayer, everyone 
went to Jenni with their problems. Well miss 
the Jenners.
Jennifer Morris is survived by her father, 
Stanleigh, and two older sisters, Adele and 
Goodi.
Design student Jennifer Morris, who died near her home of Great Neck, New York
COUNSELING AND 
STUDENT DEVELOPMENT CENTER*
Presents WORKSHOPS
MANAGING STRESS: How to cope with
academic and personal pressures. 4 
sessions (Tuesdays) starting Oct. 30, 
4:305:30.
FAMILIES IN TRANSITION: For students whose 
parents are separated, divorced and/or 
remarried. 3 sessions (Thursdays) 
starting Nov. 1, 4:305:30.
EATING DISORDERS GROUP: For persons strug
gling with eating problems such as 
starvation, binging, purging. 4 sessions 
(Mondays) starting Oct. 29, 4:305:30.
For information and registration: call ext.
2922 or sign up at E Tower, M.G. Suite 103.
* Division of Student Affairs
BENJAMIN F E4IRLESS 
MEMORIAL LECTURES
Carnegie-Mellon University 
presents the 
1984 Benjamin F. Fairless Lecture
n
Admission is free 
Tickets are available in the 
Public Relations Office 
5017 Forbes Avenue
From a $500 Company 
to a 
Global Corporation"
delivered by Akio Morita
President and Chief Executive Officer, Sony Corp
Tuesday, November 6, 1984 
5:00 p.m, Skibo Ballroom

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanOctober 30, 1984
CAMPAIGN 84
Breakdown of population sample
Total 
Democrats 26% 
Republicans 25% 
Independents 18% 
. Not Registered 31%
Lewis'
fclpPP* Creative 
** Hair Team
"^Ifl 813 S. Aiken Ave. 
J Shadyside 
682-4063
Mon. Fri. 99 Sat. 95 
Super Cuts for Guys and Gals
FREE
WALK-IN TUTORING SERVICE
Every Mon., Tues., Wed., Thur. 
7pmiopm
COMPUTER SCIENCE WeH 5415
MODERN BIOLOGY PH 126 C
CALCULUS PH 225 B
H&SS MATH PH 226 B
CHEMISTRY PH 19 A
PHYSICS PH 19 C
PHILOSOPHIC METHODS PH 21
& SOCIAL VALUES
Sponsored by student Affairs and Counseling and Student 
Development Center

---------------------------------------------------

October 30, 1984The TartanPage 5
CAMPAIGN 84
Economists debate consequences of deficit
By KAREN GRAY
Tartan Staffwriter
The consequences of the nations budget 
deficits emerged as the central issue in 
Americas Economic Future, a debate held 
in CMUs Skibo Ballroom Thursday night.
Dr. Barry Bosworth,senior fellow at the 
Brookings Institution and Dr. Jerry Jordan, 
dean of the Anderson Schools of Manage
ment at the University of New Mexico, 
shared their perspectives following a brief in
troduction by CMU economics and political 
economy professor Thomas Romer, who 
moderated the debate.
Bosworth, who was the director of the 
Council on Wage and Price and Stability 
during the Carter Administration, began the 
discussion by pointing out that although 
budget deficits are nothing new, the cur
rent deficit is not a short term 
phenomenon, but a permanent, long term 
problem.
We are engaged in an enormous spen
ding boom, said Bosworth. We are spen
ding about $100 billion dollars more per year 
than were earning. Right now this means 
good times for all, lots of fun, but our 
children will have to pay up the debts were 
running up overseas.
Bosworth said that the currently strong 
U.S. exchange rate is felt in Europe, where 
rising prices and high levels of unemploy
ment prevent them from joining in 
economic expansion.
Developing countries, according to 
Bosworth, have far larger burdens placed 
on them, as they are being forced through 
the weakness of their own currency as com
pared to the American dollar to borrow
money at extremely high interest rates.
Bosworth said that the U.S. will be incur
ring *250  *300 billion in deficits per year 
by the end of the decade. This ultimately 
leads to erosion, he said. We will be like 
Great Britain after World War II.
Jordan, a member of President Reagans 
council of Economic Advisors from 
19811982, said that the central issue is the 
extent to which the economy may be regard
ed as a self-regulating system. Jordan 
agreed with Bosworth that deficits have been 
used before to promote economic growth, 
and that several decades of arguments 
about this pumping up method have shown 
that the capitalist system is naturally 
resilient.
Jordan said that President Reagan was 
looking for a way to cut interest rates. 
Bosworth said that cutting surplus spending 
to lower the deficit would depress the
economy again, actually increasing the 
deficit.
Something will happen whether Congress 
chooses the action or not, said Jordan. He 
said that the current law of indexed taxes, 
which prevents citizens from being pushed 
into higher income brackets, prevents in
creases in tax revenue unless there is a vote 
for an explicit tax increase, a measure ad
vocated by Democratic party nominee 
Walter Mondale.
Hubert Humphrey would turn over in his 
grave, said Jordan of Mondales position.
Both speakers agreed that possible solu
tions to the problem rest in a compromise.
The magnitude of this proposal cannot 
be met by Mondales raising taxes or by 
Reagans cutting programs, said Bosworth. 
If you cut out every program today, you 
would still have budget deficits. If you rais
ed taxes to cover the deficit, it would mean
*4,000 more in taxes per family of four. 
Jordan hopes that the new administration 
in January could achieve a compromise in 
the 100 day blitz, referring to the relative 
ease with which new administrations have 
in the past gotten proposals passed through 
Congress.
Both speakers agreed that indexation of 
taxes is a good idea. Jordan said, it is highly 
desirable and I think we should keep it. 
When asked by moderator Romer what 
they thought of a constitutional amend
ment for a balanced budget, the responses 
differed.
Reagan brought that up in the summer 
of 82,Jordan said. As a long term reform, 
we need an institutional constraint.
Id like to see what happened, said 
Bosworth. I think it would turn out just like 
Prohibition. The American public doesnt 
want to make any choices.
SMCESflRE 4NGLER
PRESENTS
THE PSYCHEDELIC
FURS
plus KIDS AFTER DARK
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 7:30 PM 
SYRIA MOSQUE
FRANK ZAPPA
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 7:30 PM SYRIA MOSQUE
TheNw sparITCC , ^iN
SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 7:30 PM 
CIVIC ARENA
SYRIA MOSQUE TICKETS AT NATIONAL 
RECORD MARTS, OASIS RECORDS, OR 
CALL 363-0500 & CHARGE to visa or 
mastercard
There's Always 
Space for the 
New Expressionist.
C|VIC ARENA TICKETS AT ARENA BOX OFF|CE, KAUFMANNS, GIMBELS, AND
SELECTED RECORD OUTLETS
^OR 'CONCERT INFO CALL 621-333311
At TRW's Electronics and Defense 
Sector, we recognize the value-of 
new ideas. We provide an 
environment with space for free 
thought and expression. To us, you 
are tomorrow's source of talent and 
creative energy. With us, you can 
reach deep into the expanses of your 
imagination and help to develop 
technologies that literally reach 
beyond the stars.
Our informal and encouraging 
atmosphere has produced a galaxy 
of opportunities.. .encompassing 
large software computer systems, 
communications and scientific 
spacecraft, alternative energy 
sources, high energy lasers, and 
microelectronics development. These 
opportunities are open to you.
Take advantage of this opportunity 
to shape your future and ours. . . join 
a company that gladly makes space 
for the new expressionist. Tomorrow 
is taking shape at a company call 
TRW.
Equal Opportunity Employer 
U.S. Citizenship Required
On-campus interviews Nov. 5 & 6, 1984 
See your placement office for details.
Electronics & Defense Sector

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanOctober 30, 1984
Dr. Robert Strauss specializes in the study of taxation.
Public Finance Center directed by Dr. Strauss
By PRISCILLA BRIGGS appropriate mix of revenue tools to finance
Tartan Staffwriter programs, but too often decisions are made
In response to an apparent need for im- without adequate consideration of their 
proved fiscal management at state and economic implications. 
municipal levels in Pennsylvania, CMU has The center owes its existence to many 
developed the Center for Public Financial financial contributers such as the ALCOA 
Management. Foundation, Bell-Atlantic, the Gulf Oil
The director of the center is Dr. Robert Foundation, the Mellon Bank Foundation, 
Strauss who is a professor of economics and the Pennsylvania AFL-CIO, U.S. Steel, the 
public policy in SUPA. United Steelworkers of America and
The center will emphasize the study of Carnegie-Mellon University, 
taxation, which is a specialty of Strauss. The center is in good hands with Strauss 
According to Strauss, the center will be as director. He has served with the Joint 
a bridge between the world of academic tax Committee on Taxation of the U.S. Congress 
research and the practical world of tax and has received the U.S. Treasurys Exceppolicy, providing balanced and forward- tional Service Award for the design of the 
looking research on evolving financial pro- general revenue-sharing legislation. Recent - 
blems. ly, Strauss was director of research of the
When introducing the center, President Pennsylvania Tax Commission. Presently, 
Richard M. Cyert stated that state and local Strauss is studying West Virginias business 
governments are desperately looking for the taxes for the West Virginia legislature.Poll shows Mondale-Ferraro ticket as the choice at CMU
continued from page 4
are registered Democrat or Republican vote at CMU, according to the poll. While men 
along party lines, with 94 percent of chose both tickets almost with almost idenDemocrats intending to vote for Mondale- tical frequency, 45 percent Mondale-Ferraro 
Ferraro and 80 percent of Republicans plan- and 43 percent Reagan-Bush, women plan 
ning to vote for Reagan-Bush. Those to vote Democrat 23 percent more often than 
registered independent lean slightly toward Republican, 52 percent to 29 percent. 
Mondale-Ferraro by eight percent, but 22 The great majority of undecided voters in
percent are undecided. the poll were also women. If the genderThe so-called gender gap, a theory that gap trend persists, Mondale-Ferraro could 
Reagan appeals more strongly to men than take an even greater majority of votes from 
women, prevails with women but not men CMU women on November 6.
emu bccKstcre-IN BAKER HALL
A Free Gift 
For Your 
Best 
Friend
FRIDAYTOSUNDAYONLY!
The Dominos Pizza Flyer 
offers hours of fun for 
you and your dog. Each 
flyer is made of durable 
white plastic that will 
hold up to the worst wear 
and tear.
Be a pal, order a pizza 
and get a free flyer for 
your dog.
Expires: 11/ 3 /84
Our drivers carry less 
than $2000.
Limited delivery area.
1982 Dommos Pura Inc
Fast, Free Delivery
310 N. Craig St.
Phone: 681-1700
Dominos
Pizza
Delivers.
Techno-Bandits is the first book to 
tell the whole shocking story of blackmarket businessmen suppliers, 
American and European quasi-spies, 
and the true KGB agents. The book 
also describes the valiant  but divid
ed and inadequate  efforts to halt 
this grand-scale theft of Americas 
technological future. $15.95
PC OWNERS!
 Need to hook up with the CMU systems or other 
databases?
 Want a better price than even the CMU Computer Store 
can offer for the same modem?
ARC Associates now offers the new Anchor Signalman XII 
(1200 bps, asynchronous, auto-dial) for $250.00. We'll even 
deliver it to your door the same day. The choice is yours: buy 
a CMU modem or get the same Anchor from ARC and have 
a night on the town with your savings. For details, call 681-8609.
This offer is limited, so act quickly and save!
ARC Associates 
160 N. Craig St., Suite 217B 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
(Bellefield Bldg., corner of Craig & Bayard in Oakland)
412/681-8609

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
//
"someone has to take the abuse...//
UDS understands problems, creates special events
By NEAL W. JOHNSTON
Tartan Associate Features Editor
It seems that no matter how good you try 
to be, people always find faults. Its not 
unusual on campus that the food facilities 
are singled out most often, says Coni Koepfmger, the administrative assistant of Univer
sity Dining Service (UDS). We realize that 
someone has to take the abuse and that were 
already one step back at the stare
With these realizations in mind, Bob 
Choate, UDS director, sits down long before 
the school year begins to plan a list of events 
for Dining Service. He tries not to overflood 
the situation but to schedule events in 
various facilities when nothing else is hap
pening around campus. That way, UDS 
events wont interfere with anyone elses and 
vice versa.
One such event occurs tonight in Kiltie 
Cafeteria. Halloween is one of those times 
when students feel most homesick and 
alone, Koepfinger says, so we try to make 
them feel comfortable. College is rough  
we know thatand we feel that students 
need to go really wild once-in-a-while. Our 
Halloween steak dinner and haunted house 
is just one way.
The haunted house in Kiltie will be 
located between the two food lines. It is a 
full-size, walk-through structure that was 
created by four work/study students from 
the Art Department. A cast of characters 
will also be present  Dracula, two witches, 
and a ghoul. People really love dressing up, 
Koepfinger comments. They enjoy doing it 
because when you work hard, you play 
hard.
Occasionally, though, UDS gets some 
negative responses to their special events. I 
cant believe it, Koepfinger notes. Some 
people ask us Why dont you spend that
money on the food? Its incredible. What we 
spend on special events is less than one per
cent of our budget. And people usually love 
it.
photo by Josh Brodsky
Koepfingers duties include helping out 
with problems at UDS facilities and coor
dinating the various units. And with seven 
different facilities, thats seven different concepts, Koepfinger laughs. Its not like 
McDonalds or Wendys where they mainly 
flip burgers. She is also responsible for 
advertising Dining Services special events 
and working closely with Choate and each 
facility manager.
Koepfinger admits, however, that not 
every idea for a special event sees comple
tion. Sometimes UDS plans for an event and 
then something comes along and they have 
to cancel it; the idea just wouldnt have 
worked out. Thats why they dont advertise 
too far in advance.
Then there are those limes when UDS 
does have something and it just doesnt work 
well. The problem might be that people 
cant help out or that more people show up 
than we had planned for. Either way, she 
concludes, we can only try our best.
Koepfinger points out that the suggestion 
tables in several facilities could be used 
more. She sees student comments, ideas and 
constructive criticisms as beneficial to UDS. 
We dont know how people feel about our 
events, Koepfinger states, unless they tell 
us. Hopefully well be able to use some of 
those ideas to brighten up students 
doldrums. And by doing this, she adds, it 
makes us all a little prouder, a little happier 
to help out. Besides, everybody likes to have 
fun.
Young Democrat urges student activity
(USPS)-Theres one way to get involved in 
politics, according to the leader of the na
tions College Democrats.
Find a candidate, says Steve Girsky, and 
go from there. Students should find a can
didate who represents their own ideas, Steve 
advised, and start working in his or her cam
paign. Its a simple formula, but for Steve
tudents stock cyanide pills, 
worry anti-nuke activists
iPROVIDENCE, RI (CPS)Attempts by 
tudents at Brown University and more 
cently at the University of Colorado to 
I tock cyanide pills for use after a nuclear war 
nay be doing the fading campus freeze 
novement more harm than good, some ac
tivists warn.
Last weekin the largest student vote tur
nout in six years Brown students voted 
1044 to 687 in favor of a measure asking colege officials to stockpile suicide pills for oplonal student use exclusively in the event of 
i nuclear war.
At the same time, Colorado student
leaders voted to hold a similar referendum 
on that campus in late October.
Officials at both schools point out that the 
student referenda are not binding and stead
fastly refuse to consider stocking the lethal 
pills.
One Brown administrator declared the 
referendum would be enforced over my 
dead body.
The students, of course, admit theyre 
after headlines as much as they are an easy 
out from doomsday.
Our motivation is purely educational, 
continued on page 9
its meant success. His first campaigns in
cluded working for California state and local 
candidates like former Governor and one
time Senate hopeful Jerry Brown and cur
rent Los Angeles Mayor Tom Bradley. And 
now hes worked his way up to the national 
presidential campaign for Walter Mondale 
and Geraldine Ferraro.
The 22 year-old blond joined the UCLA 
Bruins chapter of the College Young 
Democrats three years ago. He became the 
secretary of the national organization just 
last year, and this year he was elected Presi
dent of the College Young Democrats of 
America.
The College Democrats are actually a 
division of the Young Democrats, Steve ex
plains, and the full name of his organizaton 
is College Young Democrats of America. 
Technically speaking, Young Democrats are 
any party members below the age of 35, and 
College Young Democrats are Young 
Democrats who happen to be in school.
Steve says that College Young Democrats 
have been around as such for about forty 
years, though its hard to put an exact date 
on the beginning of the organization. His 
best guess is that there are between 400 and 
500 clubs, but hes not sure how many 
members there are.
College Democrats will be playing an im
portant role in the elections this year, Steve 
says. They will be running voter registration 
drives, handing out fliers, and putting up 
posters on campuses around the country. 
They will also serve as precinct workers for 
Democratic House and Senate candidates, 
and they will be going door to door for local 
politicians. And above all, they will be do
ing everything they can for the national 
Democratic presidential ticket.
In spite of current polls which show
students favoring Reagan-Bush by a two to
one margin, Steve thinks that debate on the
issues will ultimately win students to the 
continued on page 8
phtMo by Mike Pilewski
^espite the unseasonable weather, it is definitely fall in Pittsburgh.
photo by Heather McCarty
Parents day was October 27, making that a busy yet pleasant day for many freshman

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanOctober 30, 1984
continued from page 7
Mondale-Ferraro ticket on November 6.
The College Democrats support a 4 
bilateral, mutually verifiable freeze on US , 
and Soviet nuclear weapons, and they are ^ 
for the Equal Rights Amendment. In fact, f 
Steve says, the candidacy of Geraldine Fer 
raro should do wonders for the American 
system. Steve hopes that the nuclear freeze! 
and womens rights will together be winning 
issues for the College Democrats.
Poverty in the United States and unrest in 
Central America will also be issues of special 
importance to students, he thinks.
Other than the election, Steves main con 
cem at the moment is building up the; ^ 
number of College Democrat Clubs on^ 
American campuses. He also plans to ap 
pear around the country in a number of 
political debates, most likely with College 
Republican Chairman Jack Abramoff.
In the long term, Steve wants to finish 
school and perhaps do some graduate work 
in law or public policy. He isnt making any 
commitments to a career in politics just yet,! 
but he says that in any case, politics will cer
tainly be part of his plans.
Ill always keep politics in my life, Steve ^ 
said. Ill help candidates who think the way {
I do.
Over 300 Science Paperbacks, Average Price 
Just $4.00! Send for FREE
Complete Dover Science Catalog
Over 300 quality paperbacks, most $3 50 to $6. on
? numerous topics in mathematics, physics, engi- l neermg. chemistry, geology, biology, etc Hign? quality books at reasonable prices' Write to Dover 
Dept A167 . 31 E 2nd St.. Mineota. NY 11501
Pregnant? Call AT A
Lets talk about your options
Canng and confident) information 
counseling, pregnancy testing and 
related services.
Hotline: (412)731-2420
Pittsburgh 731-2420
Washington, PA 225-6494
Alternative to Abortion, Inc.
A n.npn*'
Teachers awarded $19 million 
for "supercomputer"research
College Democrats 
support mutually 
verifiable freeze
Speed is of the essence. The key here is 
a method known as multi processing ar
chitecture whereby multiple computers work 
parallel to each other. This concept conjoin- 1 
ed with systolic array technology will increase 
the processes speed drastically. Systolic array technology is a new method of organizing computational elements invented by : 
Rung.
Rung works very closely with Takeo 1 
Kanade on the theory of combining of the 1 
multi processing architecture with speech, 
vision and robotics. Rung, who recieved his j 
Ph.D. at CMU in 1974, says that all this 
research is completely non-classified and en
courages questions. The new contract will 
not alter this policy either, as the computers 
are not used for any kind of military 
purposes.
The research is on the line of looking for 
ways to improve independence and speed in 
computers.
Rung also stresses that in no way does this 
tie in with the proposed Software Engineer 
ing Institute. These institutions involve two 
completely different sets of people, nor will 
it affect our bid to have the Institute built | 
in Pittsburgh. This decision will be an
nounced probably in November. 
photo by Bob Fishel
You can find almost anything, including fish cutters, in Pittsburgh.
By BONNIE JACOBSON
Tartan Staffwriter
Three computer scientists on staff at 
CMU, H.T. Rung, Allen Newell and Ral 
Reddy have been awarded a $19 million con
tract for research in the field of 
supercomputers. 
This grant will not only increase the 
research on campus but creates some 50 new 
high-tech jobs with a possible spin-off pro
ducing even more in the future.
The research is being funded by the 
Defense Advanced Research Project Agen
cy (DARPA), a branch of the Department 
of Defense.
The research revolves around the concept 
of artificial intelligence. This idea is to 
develop a method in which a computer can 
logically decipher a problem in very much 
the same manner as the human brain. The 
psychology department is working in con
junction with the researchers.
PIEDMONT S 50% OFF COLLEGE RARE*
Face it,your learning years are not your prime earning 
years. But dont let that stop you from moving off campus.
Through February 28,1985, you can fly anywhere 
Piedmont flies for half fare.lo LA and New'lork. And to all 
kinds of hot spots and hometowns in between.
Whats the catch1 Well, you must be under 26 and have 
a valid student ID. Read the fine print below for restrictions.
Piedmonts 50% Off Col lege Fare. More proof that our 
commitment to higher education is not just a lofty ideal.
\i *1 himuLiNt n mtkl /n/* tuLi> mioz /v /nirJutvJ ill Ica^i vicn iLix> l\i<rrcmnW Xot timiLiNciill Jux FruLix <n
Si okLiy itlun i I'm fbluLty inncl rotrutuni* u/>/K (\di xtntr navi ii^yiu or ti> ill i-rioo-jsi-spjcj

---------------------------------------------------

October 30, 1984The TartanPage 9
A PUBLIC SERVICE MESSAGE FROM THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE
THE NATIONAL CENTER 
FOR EDUCATIONAL TESTING 
PREPARATION COURSES
For: Pittsburgh
LSATKS1 GMATSB MCATEEB SATewsEl
If your answers match ours, you should check 
with your Placement Center to find out when 
Fairchild Linear & Hybrid Division will be on 
campus. Well be happy to go into more detail 
on how we pass your career test for technical 
challenge, career support and growth potential, 
salary and benefits, climate and lifestyle.
Fairchild Linear & Hybrid Division
313 Fairchild Drive
Mountain View, California 94039
If you cant schedule an interview when we visit 
your campus, feel free to send your resume to 
the attention of the Employment Manager/ 
College Relations at the address mentioned.
FAIRCHILD
A Schlumberger Company
For a free brochure and an invitation to a Free
Sample Da call Toll Free: 800-222-TEST
The National Center for Educational Testing 
3414 Peachtree Rd. NE Suite 526 
Atlanta. GA 30326
GUARANTEE: Score in the top 25% 
or take the next course FREE.
LINEAR & HYBRID DIVISION
Unitedway
Students at Brown assert
"nuclear war is suicide"
continued from page 7
says CU student Ryra Grossman, co-director 
of Students for a Sane Nuclear Policy, the 
group which drafted the student
referendum.
Even if people say, This must be a joke, 
then at least theyre talking about (nuclear 
war), and thats what were trying to ac
complish, she adds.
Brown students, too, were trying to con
vey the feeling of fear of nuclear war, says 
joson Salzman, a junior who originally got 
700 students to sign a petition calling for the 
suicide pills.
Theres been a trememdous increase in 
discussions on disarmament, Salzman says. 
People have been able to personalize the 
issue by thinking about their own options.
But thinking about suicide could foster a 
defeatist attitude and actually drive students 
away from the campus freeze movement, 
warns Sanford Gottlieb, executive director 
of United Campuses to Prevent Nuclear War 
(UCAM).
Instead, he argues, students should work 
to educate each other about the horrors of
PUBLICATION 910
... is a handy IRS publication that describes year-round IRS services, assistance, contents of frequently requested IRS publications, and contains an index of many other free IRS publications. Use the handy order form in your tax package to order Publication 910.
PUT US TO
a nuclear confrontation and discuss solu
tions to the arms buildup.
While the Brown students were sincere 
in wanting to raise consciousness of the im
minent dangers of nuclear war, he says, they 
miscalculated what effect it would have: It 
makes people feel more hopeless.
But nuclear war is suicide, counters 
Browns Salzman. If Im not dead, I want 
to be able to kill myself. Life after nuclear 
war is a fate less than death.
Besides, Salzman adds, Im more op
timistic about the future now just by seeing 
everyones growing concern and awareness 
since the referendum was introduced.
Were trying to use the momentum weve 
started to get other campuses involved, he 
says. Were sending out information to cam
puses to hold rallies on November 2 against 
nuclear war. Its coming up fast, but we want 
it to be before the (November 6th presiden
tial) election.
Happy Halloween to my white Witch 
I love you Fuzzy Bear
photo by Dave Seifried
'Hopeful Graphic Communication Management students recently took a trip to New 
| York City to get a view of the business.

---------------------------------------------------

ori sale ]^edt1hum Fri 
Oct. Noy 1,2-4 :Soom~ Va

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
XTC excels with Big Express; The Nails Debut in Style
By MARK ISKOWITZ
Special to The Tartan
1. XTC  The Big Express (Geffen) 
Definitely one 1984s finest releases. This 
7th album by perennial British musical car
toonists (my term) knocked me over on first 
listen. With further listens, Andy Partridges 
tender humor and crazed emotionality 
becomes more and more apparent. The 
songs recapture the old XTC excitement,
Ian Anderson, the pied piper of rockn roll, will front Jethro Tull in their Hallowe'en 
Night concert.
last seen on English Settlement, in a new and 
innovative way. Each track stands on its own, 
from the drunken sealore of All You Pretty 
Girls to the burning memory of I 
Remember The Sun. The music is classic 
XTC off-the-wall and unpredictable. One 
of the few bands from 77 which still matters.
2. The dBs  Like This (Bearsville) 
Although their leader, Chris Stamey,
departed last year when the bands major 
label signing was announced, they smartly 
relied on vocalist/guitarist Peter Holsapple 
to write 11 superb songs. Everything works 
on this melodic rock and roll LP, full of 
tough, uptempo numbers. Chris Butlers ex
citing raw production provides just enough 
punch in the right places. Country-ish har
monies add further depth to the strong 
material, which exhibits a genuine 
American flavor. Like This is the way I like 
the dBs.
3. The Nails  Mood Swing (RCA)
Fun and wacky first LP by a NYC band
with an appealing rock and roll style. Fran
tic music with soul, funk, and jazz in
fluences, and chaotic singing by Marc 
Campbell. The bands previous EP boasted 
a classic song, 88 Lines About 44 Women, 
which is re-recorded here and even better, 
if that is possible. There is much to like on 
this excellent debut. The Nails exhibit the 
tremendous flair and confidence of a season
ed band which knows the ropes. So much 
the better.
4. Phantom Limbs  Romance (Trotter) 
New San Francisco-based trios impressive
debut rings true with honesty and emotion. 
Their style is difficult to pin down, ranging 
from quasi-rockabilly to psych. An enticing, 
sparse sound with brutally frank, poetic 
lyrics  Something about polyester clothes, 
makes me want to overdoseoften rather 
tongue-in-cheek. This bands good-time feel
ings are bound to grow on you. Songs like 
Wedding Ring and Crawl Space capture 
the joy and frustration of American youth.
Rock relic Jethro Tull to haunt Civic Arena
By LESLEY BRUNKER
Tartan Entertainment Editor 
While most of the worlds musical au
dience was bopping with the Beatles, swing
ing with the Monkees, or idolizing Jimi Hen
drix, Ian Anderson and six friends began ek
ing out a living as the garbage blues outfit 
The John Evans Smash.
Seventeen years, nineteen albums, in
numerable line-up shifts and a name change 
later, Jethro Tull is a living rock legend.
On Halloween night, Anderson, original 
guitarist Martin Barre, bassist Dave Pegg, 
keyboardist Peter-John Vittesse and 
newcomer percussionist Doane Perry will 
take the Civic Arena stage in support of their 
latest album, Under Wraps.
Jethro Tull is among but a handful of 
bands to survive with some degree of in
tegrity intact from their late sixties roots 
through the album-oriented rock (A.O.R.) 
and disco trends of the seventies and into the 
pseudo-music era of the eighties.
What set Tull apart from the start was 
their baroque ensemble sound as well as 
Andersons unique employment of the flute 
as a lead instrument. What keeps them go
ing is their ability to breathe this perspec
tive into current musical trends.
Through the years Anderson and Co. have 
dabbled in a good number of musical 
genres. Early works This Was and Stand Up 
are undeniably blues influenced. A Passion 
Play and Thick as a Brick featured concep
tual themes. A and Stormwatch flirt with 
progressivism. And Aqualung had enough 
rough edges to be covered by a modem 
heavy metal outfit.
A frequently changing cast of characters; 
indeed, only two original members are with 
the band today. Some passing faces have inluded Tony Immoi, David Palmer, and Ed
die Jobson.
The show will be in the Civic Arenas 
Theatre-style setting, and will undoubtedly 
feature the new material while paying due
respect to their classics. Always fine 
showmen, the members of Jethro Tiill should 
weave an air of enchantment this October 
31st.
No pretension allowed.
5. Fred Schneider 8c The Shake Society 
Fred Schneider & The Shake Society 
(Warner Brothers)
Instead of a new B-52 LP, you have a close 
substitutea fun-loving collaborative effort 
packed with assorted crazy songs and kooky 
folks. Consistently jumpy songs colored with 
bits of funk by ex-Funkadelic member/co
producer Bemie Worrell and plenty of soul 
by Patti LaBelle, sings with Schneider 
on the sensual paro. ,Tts Time to Kiss. 
Kate Pierson adds a fan* ar touch of shriek
ing to three tracks, including the super - 
danceable Monster. If you want to shake, 
this record is what you need.
6. John Abercrombie  Night (ECM)
Not only does gifted jazz guitarist Aber
crombie shine on this album but so does Jan 
Hammer, Michael Brecker, and Jack deJohnette. Phew! Four heavyweights on one 
piece of vinyl. They manage to play off each 
other masterfully on six diverse pieces, five 
written by Abercrombie. The night theme 
pervades the record, which provokes vivid 
and changing nocturnal images. This LP 
transports you to the inside of a New York 
City taxi cab after the clubs have closed for 
the morning.
7. Orchestral Manoevres In The Dark 
Junk Culture (A&M)
Finally released in the States, O.M.D.s 
amusing 4th album strikes a more earthly 
chord. Without the pretentious gimmickry 
of Dazzle Ships, the British electronic music 
group succeeds in creating strong melodies 
in an eclectic manner. From the soulful 
delivery of Locomotion to the bouncy ska 
of All Wrapped Up, the songs surprise you 
with great unpredictability. Sax on the in
strumental title cut? Good show.
8. The Three Johns  Atom Drum Bop 
(Abstract UK)
Vital debut album by an eerie, yet tuneful 
British band. They succeed in drawing the 
listeners attention to important songs defen
ding labors right and assualting the class 
war. On tracks, like Do Not Cross The Line 
and Sun of Mud, the engaging singer 
sounds like a cross between Marc Bolan and 
Pete Murphy (formerly of Bauhaus). Warn
ing: Ominous messages to consider 
m
C.O.N.E.S. show opens at Forbes Gallery
By LYNNE M. SCHATZ
Special to the Tartan
A new exhibition entitled C.O.N.E.S. 
opens this evening at the Forbes Gallery. 
C.O.N.E.S., an acronym for Conical Obses
sions, Non-Equitable Sensations, features 
the work of graduate architecture students 
Fred Ellman, Keith Peoples, and Phil 
Snyder. The opening is at 7:00 p.m.
C.O.N.E.S. is an architectural explora
tion, but not a show of architecture, says 
Copies. The work is to be perceived as a 
Slngle installation. Upon entering the 
gallery, the viewer is confronted with a
pavilion housing a lighted cone. The 
pavilion is guarded on either side of the 
gallery by two cone-shaped centurians.
Behind the pavilion and to the left the ar
tists have placed a garden of cone lamps. 
These lamps help to examine one of the 
perceptions of cones that the artists have  
cones as earth-bound bearers of light.
The back room of the gallery features a 
diarama that once again examines the shape 
of a cone. The diarama stretches the length 
of the room and shows a landscape of cones 
in false perspective. The cones jut out from 
continued on page 12
Comedian Bill Murray attempts a serious role in the Columbia Films release, The Razor's 
Edge. Based on the novel by W. Somerset Maugham, it Describes an ex-soldiers search 
for meaning in life after returning from World War I.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanOctober 30, 1984
Picture discs impractical but decorative
By AL DATRI
Tartan Staffwriter
If you looked through the music sale at 
the bookstore several weeks ago, you might 
have seen several albums enclosed only in 
clear plastic sleeves, each with a picture on 
the surface of the disc. These are known as 
picture discs.
Although many people may have never 
seen a picture disc, they have been around 
since the sixties. The first picture discs were 
merely a normal photograph sandwiched 
between tow colorless plastic discs, upon 
which the grooves were pressed normally. 
The modem picture discs, however, have a 
separate picture on both sides of a normal
black vinyl disc.
Picture discs were originally distributed as 
promotional items, intended for use in stores 
and such. But when the industry realized 
that collectors were paying apprecialbe 
prices for this sort of disc, they expanded 
production of them.
The art on most picture discs is merely the 
front and back covers of the conventional 
album. This is usually done when the pic
ture disc contains the exact same music as 
the normal album.
But of late picture discs have appeared 
that contain music not found on conven
tional pressings. A good example of this is 
the 12 single of Mr. Crowley by Ozzy
WRCT88.3 FM
presentsSPOR TSLINE
An innovative call-in sports talk show 
Mondays at 8:30 pm
Brought to you by the WRCT Sports staff
Osbourne, the three songs on this twelve inch 
single picture disc are all live tracks not 
found on normal vinyl, and one, You Said 
It All, has never appeared on normal vinyl 
is a studio version.
While the art on some picture discs is fan
tastic, that of others is boring. An example 
of the former is a recent release of Lonesome 
Crow, the first album by Scorpions. The 
front of this disc depicts a huge scorpion ris
ing behind the sand-whipped ruins of a cas
tle in the desert. The back shows the reason 
for the desert: a nuclear bomb.
Similarly good art is found on the Citadel 
and Fountains of Light albums by Starcastle. These discs depict dreamy scenes of a 
fairy-tale castle and fountain, respectively. 
These latter discs are so good that collectors 
routinely pay $30 to $60 for them, even 
though few people have heard of the band.
Examples of the less creative sort are the 
numerous interview discs that have surfac
ed. Large numbers of interview picture discs 
David Bowie, the Beatles, and others may 
be found in any reasonalbly sized audio 
continued on page 13
WRCT TOP 10 ALBUMS
1. The Ramones
Too Tough to Die (Sire)
2. Black Flag 
Slip it In (SST)
3. XTC
The Big Express (Geffen)
4. The Long Ryders 
Native Sons (Frontier)
5. The Red Hot Chili Peppers 
The Red Hot Chili Peppers (EMI)
6. The Church
Remote Luxury (Warner Brothers)
7. U2
The Unforgettable Fire (Island)
8. Captain Beef heart
The Legendary A&M Sessions (A&M)
9. Del Fuegos
The Longest Day (Slash/WB)
10. Scraping Foetus off the Wheel 
Hole (Some Bizarre (UK))
Newest adds: This Mortal Coil, The Fall, 
Michael Garrison, Short-Term Memory, 
SPK, Fred Schneider, Barone, Thick 
Pidgeon, Eurogliders, Jan Wobble, Sisters of 
Mercy.
(Compile by Mark Iskowitz.)
Final Elton John performance 
leaves Pittsburgh Fond Memories
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan News Editor
It began quietly, as quietly as a man com
ing on stage with a pink jacket can be. As 
quiet as over 15,000 fans in the Civic Arena 
could be.
October 18 marked the Pittmmm sburgh appearance of Elton 
? V ^ Jhn on his last American tour.
TALK TO DRAPER
Friday, November 30, 1984 Carvtegfe-Mellon
MS/PhD Candidates  join some of the nation's most 
respected and inventive people at developing in
novative and fascinating new technologies. As a 
leading hands-on "working laboratory" in Technology 
Square, we offer a unique environment for your career 
to grow and develop. Positions are currently 
available for candidates In Electrical Engineering, 
Mechanical Engineering, Computer Science, and 
Aeronautics in the following areas:
 Control Systems Design
 Software Development/ 
Evaluation
 Analog/Digital Design 
Engineering
 Spacecraft Dynamics
 Underwater 
Exploration Systems
 Structural Engineering
 Manufacturing 
Systems
 Robotics/Automation
 Guidance and 
Navigation Analysis
 Electronic System 
Engineering
 Optics
 Instrumentation 
System Development
We employ over 1800 top quality people  we need 70 
more. If you're looking for a state-of-the-art professional challenge  we want to talk to you.
INFORMATIONAL GROUP MEETING*INTERVIEW SCHEDULE
Details available at your Placement Office. We are 
an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer, 
M/F. U.S. Citizenship required.
The Charles Stark lis/ Draper Laboratory, Inc.
John started soft, with an old 
ballad called Tiny Dancer. It didnt stay 
slow for long.
Climaxing with a classic Benny and the 
Jets, John built his concert to great heights. 
Using his music and a fantastic light show, 
he kept the audience on the edge of their 
seats.
John the showman was everything an au
dience could ask for. He was Elton the 
Rocker with songs like The Bitch is Back 
and Saturday Nights All Right For Fightin, 
He was master balladeer with songs such as 
Your Song and Dont Let the Sun Go 
Down On Me.
At one point, he seemed like a being from 
outer space. During Rocket Man, the 
lighting structures came down upon the 
group of musicians as if a rocket were lan
ding. The fog effects that were created made 
one think of Close Encounters of the 
musical kind.
John had his regular group with him, all 
but one dating back to the Honky Chateau 
album. Dee Murray on bass and Davey 
Johnstone on lead guitar are great, but 
perhaps the most versatile player in the band 
continued on page 13Gallery showFocuses on cone shape
continued from page 11
the ground and appear bigger than they 
really are because of the perspective.
Architecture should evoke a memory, 
says Peoples. If you dont have one, then it 
should manufacture it. Ellman, Peoples, 
and Snyder believe that in examining the 
cone shape, a shape that is inherent in many 
things arounds us, certain connections and 
recollections can be made.
These recollections are not immediately 
equitable, says Ellman. Ellman believes that 
viewing the show might establish a certain 
longing in the viewer to establish certain 
connections.
The architects chose to examine the cone 
shapes as a result of their belief that cer
tain forms demand special attention and to 
be appropriated in certain ways.
C.O.N.F.S. will be at the Forbes Gallery 
until November 4. Gallery hours are 
Wednesday-Friday, 11:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m , 
and Saturday and Sunday, noon to 5:00 
p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

October 30, 1984The TartanPage 13
COSTUMES EXT002DINAIE2E
AUTHENTIC /4PB4REL FROM 1850-1960
VINTAGE CLOTHIERCLUB 
ANONYMOUS
284 MOREWOOD BETWEEN CENTRE & BAUM
12-6 MON-FRI 11-6 SAT 681-9387
Elton John appeals to Fans 
in Final Civic Arena concert
continued from page 12
is drummer Nigel Olsson. Olsson sings 
backup, plays the drums, and'is sort of the 
technical director on stage, pointing out 
mixing problems during the concert. Fred 
Mandel rounded out the group.
The light show was excellent. During 
Dont Let the Sun Go Down On Me, the 
stage was lit as if it were sunrise. During a 
few songs, searchlights would shine on hte 
audience, enhancing crowd involvement. 
Elton John is always aware he is playing for 
people, and even those sitting behind the
stage were treated to bows and gestures.
At one point, John shattered his piano 
bench, handing out pieces to the front rows 
of fans.
During Benny, John broke into a five 
minute piano solo. He played behind his 
back, while lying down under the piano, and 
standing up. He began with a version of 
Glenn Millers In the Mood, and then took 
off.
Crocodile Rock marked the last song 
Elton John will ever play in Pittsburgh. His 
fans will miss the energetic style of his music 
and his person.
If theres living refutation of the current myth that rock n roll is dead, it must be 
the Psychadelic Furs, states Britains Melody Maher magazine. Blending nostalgic sounds 
of the psychadelic era with harsh edges of modern punk, the Furs, consisting of singer 
Richard Butler, Bassist Timm Butler and guitarist John Ashton, are touring in sup
port of their newest album, Mirror Moves. They will be at the Syria Mosque this Friday, November 2, at 7:30 pm._________________________________________________
Picture discs 
have good looks 
but poor sound
continued from page 12
store. Also of this sort of disc are the myriad 
comilations of greatest hits and rare 
material by Elvis Presly, Buddy Holly, the 
Beatles, and others. These are the ones that 
usually end up in bargain bins (like our 
bookstore) because no one wants to pay for 
them.
An important thing to remember about 
picture discs is that they do not have a nor
mal vinyl surface, and so they are even more 
delicate than a conventional album. Picture 
discs of past years had rather high surface 
noise levels, and the appearance of the art 
on them would deteriorate if the disc were 
played.
These problems have lessened in recent 
years, especially with import discs, but the 
modem picture disc is still not meant to take 
the place of the conventional disc. The 
sound quality is still not as good, and the 
artwork still deteriorates with multiple 
playing.
So when you go out to buy Barry 
Manilows Greatest Hits, dont buy just the 
picture disc if you want to listen to it. Buy 
the normal vinyl one to listen to and the pic
ture disc to look at.
PREGNANT?
And you dkki't mmn to bo? For a free pregnancy last and 
confidantial help, call 
Birthright at 621 >1983
Northern Telecom ...A Rational Career Choice ____________
The merger of computer technology and telecommunications has 
made our industry THE growth field for the 80 s and beyond As a 
dynamic company that deals in communications technology, we 
can offer a wealth of challenges to graduates in Engineering. 
Computer Science. Marketing, Finance. Accounting. Business 
Administration and Personnel With facilities in 14 major U S 
cities, we can probably match your desires with an area that 
offers the climate and amenities you want
Since we believe in promotion based on achievement, you can set 
your own pace for advancement We offer industry-competitive 
compensation and our benefit program ranks among the best in 
the industry Talk to our recruiter during his or her next visit to 
your campus We will be happy to answer all of your questions 
about locations, project assignments, and our projected growth
See your placement office to schedule an interview with our 
division representative from Headquarters/Nashville on campus 
November 12.
For more information, send a resume or a letter to
Northern Telecom Inc.
Manager, College Relations 
259 Cumberland Bend 
Nashville, TN 37228
An i(|ti;l opportunity mployi'f m f !i
We hire talent
nt
northernfclccom
MANUFACTURING PLANTS & RESEARCH FACILITIES Ann 
Arbor. Ml  Atlanta. GA  Concord. NH  Creedmoor. NC  
Marleton. NJ  Minnetonka. MN  Morton Grove. IL  Mountain 
View CA  Nashville TN  Raleigh. NC  Richardson. TX  San 
Diego. CA  Santa Clara. CA  West Palm Beach FL

---------------------------------------------------

November 1314
mm mmm< mmam mmmmmwm
STUDENT
SENATE
ELECTIONS
Number of Seats Available:
CFA3 H&SS3
CIT5 MCS3
GSIA1 SUPA1
If you are interested in being a Student Senator, you may pick 
up a petition at the Skibo Information Desk. Petitions are due
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1984
in the Rules Committee mailbox at the Info Desk. 
For more information, contact: Senator Seth Kaplan x4392
Senator Eric Rocher x4795
\ 1 J J I J I
?ATTENTION ALL CAMPUS ORGANIZATIONS:. The Senate Rules Committee sponsors this year's
OK MK >MK >MEK XBCJOKOMK XNKJfltftt >MftC .mOWCXMfcORGANIZATIONAL SURVEY---------------------------Hbc Jflfic IMK >g( )ia*c dMr sity Idiftc '>
Forms due by FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30,1984
All funded and non-funded organizations must complete the survey form and return it to the Rules Committee mailbox at the Skibo Information Desk.
Failure to complete this survey jeopardizes your status as a recognized organization and may result in freezing of funds.Forms are available at the Skibo Info Desk.
funded by Activities Fee
1

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
CROSS-COUNTRYIM REPORTSPORTS BRIEFS
CC wins titleiM in fuii swingSports at large
Page 16Page 17Page 18
First time as champs
Soccer team earns share of PAC title
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Staffwriter
With major victories at home each of the 
past two Saturdays, CMUs soccer team has 
clinched a share of the PAC championship. 
The title is the first in the teams history.
The Tartans hold a 10-1-1 record with two 
games remaining, and will most likely 
receive an NCAA Division III playoff berth, 
based on the teams performance against 
Bethany.
In one of the biggest soccer upsets of the 
season, the unranked Tartans upended sixthranked Bethany, PAC champions in 13 of the 
last 14 seasons, by a score of 1-0. Freshman 
Alan Mayr scored the only goal of the game 
off an assist from Owen Ranta, and lead 
goalkeeper Sam Montague contributed 8 
saves to register his eigth shutout of the 
season.
Charlie Lockheads header goal in the 
opening minutes of last Saturdays home soc
cer match against Washington and Jefferson 
was all the scoring the Tartans needed as 
they rolled to a 5-0 rout of the Presidents.
With a 4-1 conference record, the Tar
tans are in a first place with tie with John 
Carroll. If Bethany defeated Hiram (results 
were not available at press time), the Bisons 
will also share the title.
Most of the scores came early in the game, 
as the Tartans appeared satisfied to sit on 
their substantial lead later on. The second 
goal came on a pass by Doug Anderson to 
senior Caleb Corkery, and moments later it 
was 3-0 as Lockhead, who is sixth in the PAC 
in scoring, netted his second score of the day 
A header by Alex Tomlinson off a comer 
kick was the final score in the half as CMU 
led 4-0.
The only goal in the second half was 
garnered by Doug Anderson, who leads the 
CMU attack and is the second ranked scorer 
in the PAC. Another PAC leader is goalie 
Sam Montague, who has a goals-against 
average of under .5, and has allowed only 
4 goals all year.
The final regular-season home game is to
day at 3:30 pm, as the Tartans face Pitts 
Division I team in what is expected to be 
a closely-fought battle. The team then 
travels to Robert Morris on November 3 to 
close the regular season.
Many people questioned Head Coach 
Chuck Klausings strategy. W&Js pass 
defense was last in the PAC. CMU came out 
running, as they always do, but werent suc
cessful. The Tartans were shut out through 
three quarters. Vet Klausing waited until 
CMU was trailing 29-0 before implementing 
the run-and-shoot pass offense. Once they 
did, Mike Hensel led the offense to a score.
Last Saturday against Bethany, CMU took 
advantage of Bison mistakes to take a 24-6 
lead at halftime. Mike Nazzaro, who 
replaced Rob Fleischman as kicker, kicked 
a 21-yard Field goal to give the Tartans a 
three point lead.
In the second quarter, Tech drove 73 yards 
in five plays, climaxing with a 30-yard 
touchdown run by Mike Garverick for a 10-0 
lead.
. Tech Field won't be crowded with football Ians any more this year, as the lartans were KnocKefl out ot tne p.ayotts oy w*j, 3o-o.
After CMU gained control of the ball by 
an interception by Mike Paterchak on the 
Bethany 34, Denmeade ran in for a 34-yard 
TD.
continued on page 16
photo by Evan McDonnell
As Coach Nick Guadioso (striped sweat pants) looks on from the sideline, CMU forward Doug Anderson (7) drive past a W&J 
defender near the goal. Anderson added another goal to his team-leading total in Saturdays 5-0 rout of W8cJ.
W&J spoils playoff bid368 rout takes away Tartan hopes
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan News Editor
There will be no heroics this year, no 
playoffs, no undefeated season. The Tartans 
lost to Washington and Jefferson College last 
week, 36-8, to move their record to 5-2, and 
put them in second place in the Presidents 
Athletic Conference.
CMU rebounded to defeat the Bethany 
Bisons 27-20, keeping their hopes alive for 
at least a tie in the fight for first place.
The battle with the W&J Presidents was 
a very lackluster performance by the Tar
tans. For three quarters, CMU was complete
ly dominated. They had five turnovers. 
Every time CMU began to drive, they would 
give the Presidents the ball.
One key play took place in the second 
quarter. W&J halfback A. J. Pagano ran 
around left end on a fourth-and-goal from 
the three yard line. He was hit by a defen
sive back, and the ball popped up in the air.
Pagano kept running into the end zone. 
Linebacker Mike Paterchak jumped in the 
air, but the ball fell past him, right back into 
the arms of Pagano for a touchdown. It was 
that kind of day for the Tartans.
On another play, Tim Denmeade was one 
tackle away from a touchdown on a kickoff 
return. That tackle caused a fumble. Later, 
in the third quarter, Anthony Collaros ran 
13 yards on two carries, finally getting yar
dage on the ground. On his third carry, he 
fumbled.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanOctober 30, 1984
Meckley's runners take sixth straight
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU cross-country team, heavily 
foavored despite fielding four runners who 
were either sick or injured, captured its fifth 
straight Presidents Athletic Conference 
championship, and its sixth in seven years.
Coach Gary Meckley, who before the meet 
predicted the victory would be by a closer 
margin than usual, stuck by his words after 
the race despite the fact that the Tartans won 
by a larger number of points than in 1983. 
I felt it was a fairly close meet, Meckley 
stated, noting that the CMU runners were 
behind for the first mile and did not begin 
to pull away until ater the 2 mile mark of 
the 4.9 mile course. By the halfway point, 
six Tartan runners were among the top ten, 
where they remained throughout the rest of 
the race.
For the sixth year in a row, the Tartans 
fielded the top finisher, as freshman Dean 
Danowski turned in a time of 26:29 on the 
muddy Schenley Park course. Senior Robert 
Dusch grabbed second place twenty seconds 
^
 7 felt it was a very close 
meet, Coach Meckley 
stated, despite the fact that 
the Tartans won by a 
larger number of points 
than in 1983.
behind Danowski, while Tony Scarpelli, 
Mark Sulecki, and Paul Camine finished 
fifth, sixth, and seventh respectively. Tom 
Felmley, a sophomore from Penn Hills, was 
tenth with a time of 27:51. Although six
schools fielded teams, Bethany and Thiel 
did not enter a full complement of runners 
and thus were not counted in the standings.
In second place behind CMU in the team 
standings was Grove City College, followed 
by Hiram and John Carroll.
The PAC championships capped a very 
successful conference season for the tartan 
cross-country squad. They were undefeated 
at 8-0 this season, and also came out on 
top at the Fairmont State Invitational meet. 
The team now has 62 consecutive dual-meet 
wins, and will gun for a new NCAA record 
of 67 next year.
The Tartan harriers will now participate 
in post-season competition, with trips to the 
NCAA Eastern Championships at Lebanon 
Valley College on Saturday, November 10 
and the NCAA Championships a week later.
TEAM
CMU 
Grove City 
Hiram 
John Carroll 
Thiel 
Bethany
CHRI
1. D. Danowski
2. R. Dusch
3. A. Scarpelli
4. M. Sulecki
5. P. Carnine
6. T. Felmey
7. S. Duffy
PTS.
21
52
78
88
TIME
26:29
26:29
27:11
27:17
27:26
27:51
28:42
CMU MENS VOLLEYBALL
FIRST ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING 
FOR 84-85 SEASON
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31 
7:30 PM, SKIBO ROOM 11
IF YOURE INTERESTED IN PLAYING,
PLEASE ATTEND
CMU MENS VOLLEYBALL
Funded by Activities Fee
Football team splits two, 
but out of playoff action
continued from page 15
On the next play from scrimmage, 
Bethany QB Mick Arminio threw another 
interception to cornerback Joe Orlowski, 
who returned the ball 25 yards to the 
Bethany 20 yard line. Denmeade ran 13 
yards to the seven. Collaros ran two yards. 
Setting up a five-yard TD pass from Dave 
Zito to Bike Behling. It was Zitos first TD 
pass of his senior year.
The Tartans seemed to be slacking off in 
the second half, but held on for the victory. 
Key defensive players were Paul Scarmazzi, 
who had a big fourth-quarter sack, Scott 
Bachik, Mark Fera, and Chris Haupt, who 
was WRCT player-of-the-game.
Denmeade was the leading rusher, with 60 
yards on six carries. Garverick had 54 yards 
on 13 carries. Hensel completed nine of 16 
passes for 138 yards. Roger Roble, Victor 
Boland and Dave Richards all had three 
receptions.
CMU completed its conference season 
with a 5-1 record. W&J was 4-0 with two 
games left to play, against Grove City and 
John Carroll. Neither of those teams is ex
pected to give W&J a problem, but on any 
given Saturday most anything can happen 
in the PAC. CMU has one game remaining, 
a non-conference battle against undefeated 
Case Western Reserve University. CMU beat 
CWRU last year by the score of 15-10.
ThePresidents Distinguished Lecture Series 
presents
Dotty Lynch
Campaign Strategist
ELECTION 84: 
What the Polls Tell Us
Tuesday, October 30, 1984 
4:30 pm
Skibo_Ballmom_MM^__ii
CMU

---------------------------------------------------

October 30, 1984The TartanPage 17
Intramural sports schedules moving fast
Jy DON EGGERT
^ Tartan Sports Editor
Editors noteDue to an error by the 
I ports editor, no intramural report appeared 
\n the last issue of the Tartan. The sports 
I ditor apologizes to all IM staff and par, ticipants for any inconvenience his mistake 
paused.
Several IM sports have finished, others are 
In playoffs and near completion, and some
I.re just starting. The IM Sports results to
date are:
TOUCH FOOTBALL
The touch football season is almost over, 
jltfajor and minor playoffs began yesterday, 
nd the intermediate final was held Sunday, 
trash Crew won the title game against the 
punch Bunch team by a score of 35-6.
TENNIS
The tennis season is complete; however, 
Inal results were not available from the in
tramural office.
WATER POLO
As of last Friday, Delta Tau Delta led the 
Later polo competition with a record of 4 
ins and no losses. DTDs closest rival was 
ifeeta Theta Pi, which held a 2-1 record.
CO-REC VOLLEYBALL
The co-rec volleyball season ended last 
Meek, after competition among 32 teams, an 
all-time high.
In the major league, Pi Lambda Phi 
defeated Chesga for a berth in the finals, 
|nd then defeated Theta Xi for the title. 
I The Mosfets finished its season undefeated 
15 it took the intermediate league title, tak
ing two games straight over the Heather and 
the Bruisers dorm team.
In minor league action, the Pi Lambda 
Phi B team defeated the Pyridines and the 
Moguls to enter the final round, where they 
beat the Dudes and Dudesses for the title.
GOLF
Pi Lambda Phi also swept the golf com
petition, the E.J. Birdy Open Tournament, 
winning the team and individual champion
ships. Bob Button of Pi Lam was the in
dividual winner with 72, an IM record low.
CROSS-COUNTRY
Late-breaking results from the IM CrossCountry meet, held Thursday, October 4, 
are:
TEAM
Computer Science 31
Over Weight & Out of Shape 58
Engineering & Public Policy 59
INDIVIDUAL
1. John Wessels 10:09.8 CS
2. John Toll 10:56 EPP
3. John Pane 10:59 CS
4. Carl Weakland 11:14 OWOOS
5. Paul Clifford 11:29 CS
CHESS
The Cubs lead IM chess competition, 
with an undefeated 4-0 record. Following 
closely are Anything Goes and Gumbi Ex
press, both with 3-1 records.
RECENT SPORTS
Bowling, Racquetball, Team Table Ten
nis (13 teams) and Team Volleyball (40 
teams) have just started, and standings are 
not comprehensive yet.
UPCOMING SPORTS 
ENTRY DEADLINES
The most important deadline is for IM 
soccer today at 4:30 PM. The league com
missioners are:
Major Pete Visconti 682-1474
Intermediate Pat McMullen 683-1474
Minor John Fox 621-9144
Each team must have a member at the
rules clinic, tomorrow at 4:30 PM, in This
tle Hall, Gym.
Future sports with upcoming deadlines in
clude darts, backgammon, and three-person 
volleyball, all due November 8.
The next intramural board meeting is this 
Thursday, November 1, at 12:30 PM in the 
IM office (Room 101, Gym). More informa
tion on IM programs is available from IM 
Director Earle Birdy, x2214.
The Tartan
News
Features
Entertainment Production
Sports staff needs Writers!
Op/EdArtists 
Photographers 
Typesetters
Come to the Sports section meeting 
Tuesdays at 5:30 pm in Grey Matter, or 
leave a message for the Sports Editor at 
the Tartan, Rm. 50, Skibo, x2in.
OPEN

at the CMU Co-Op Store
GYROS DELIGHT
A NEW TASTE SENSATION
ADD JUICY TOMATO, ONION, SPECIAL SAUCE, 
PITA BREAD TO A DELICIOUS BLEND OF 
QUALITY MEATS AND YOU TRULY HAVE A
GYROS DELIGHT
SANDWICH2.89
FROM OCT. 30 to NOV. 6-GYRO SANDWICH ONLY $2.59
THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
^ WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS OF CMU 
^ REASONABLE RENTAL RATES! 
^ THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND! 
^ "THE FAIRFAX" ...4614 5th AVE.! 
^ WE WILL FURNISH IF NEEDED! 
YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
The management invites the Faculty 
Members, Graduate Students & CMU 
Guests to visit and inspect our ONE 
BEDROOM & STUDIO APARTMENTS 
that could become available for September, 
October and November occupancy.
We are open for your viewing seven days 
a week. PLEASE call H. M. Harrity for 
YOUR appointment, anytime. DIAL 
621-4030. We'll see YOU at "THE 
FAIRFAX" ...Neighbor.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanOctober 30, 1984I
Volleyball, rugby, and 7 from field hockey see action
Compiled by DON EGGERT
Tartan Sports Editor 
The CMU womens volleyball team fac
ed crosstown Division I rival Duquesne 
University on Monday, October 15. Du
quesne won the match 3 games to 2.
The Tartans played hot and cold. 
Sometimes passing, setting, and hitting was 
outstanding; other times serves flew out-ofbounds or players stood and let the ball hit 
the floor.
After losing the first game, CMU won the 
next two and threatened to take the match.
However, they narrowly lost the fourth 
game, and a late comeback was not enough 
to overcome an 11 -0 deficit in the last game.
Scores of the match were 13-15, 15-8, 
15-13, 14-16, 10-15.
On Thursday, October 18 the women 
traveled to LaRoche for a tri-meet with 
LaRoche and California of PA.
The first match was with California. 
CMU won the match 2-1 with games scores 
of 15-10, 7-15,.and 15-9. The Tartans won 
the second match, defeating LaRoche by 
scores of 15-3 and 15-2.
Overall, the teams record is 15-5. The 
women travel to Washington, PA tonight 
for a tri-meet with W&J and Carlow Col
lege. Their regular season ends on Saturday 
as they host the Penn wood West Conference 
Tournament here.

Seven women from CMUs field hockey team 
entered post-season competition last Sun
day. Donna Nyzio, Mary Ann Sacco, Sarah 
Fay, Kate DArbeloff, Lynne Otto, Erin 
Fitzpatrick, and Karen Tobaski traveled to 
Slippery Rock for a preliminary tryout. Four 
of the women  Nyzio, Sacco, Fay, and 
DArbeloff  qualified for the Pittsburgh 
second team, and will go on to compete in 
the NCAA Mideast Regionals.

Small but scrappy, the CMU Womens 
Rugby team showed the significantly larger 
Slipper Rock women that size is no indica
tion to strength. Losing 24-4 to SRU last 
Saturday, the CMU Crou nevertheless 
demonstrated remarkable stamina and 
teamwork.
CMU opened the action by scoring a try 
early in the first half, following headway by 
fullback and kicker Pam Mott, wing Pauline 
Wen ran down the sideline into the try zone, 
making the score 4-0. Scorewise, it was 
downhill from there for the Crou, but CMU 
more than reciprocated the brutal hitting 
of the SRU players.
Teamwork definitely highlighted the 
afternoon. The CMU scrum won the scrum 
downs, outpushing the heavier SRU women 
time and time again. The Crou showed no 
fear as they successfully brought down the 
SRU women.
The CMU women travel to California, PA 
next weekend for their second game this 
season against Cal State. They close the fall 
season on November 10 against West 
Virginia University.
Our Open House 
can open up a world of career 
opportunities for you.
WEDNESDAY (NOVEMBER 14) from 6:30 to 8:30 PM
Skibo Hall, Room 11
Plan to attend. Several 
of our Technical Managers 
will be there to talk with you. Refreshments 
will be served.
Harris is a leading producer of state-of-theart communication, information processing 
and microelectronic products for the world
wide information technology market. Thats 
probably one of the reasons why we consis
tently ranked among the top 25 employers in 
the recent Graduating Engineer Employer 
Preference Survey. And when you come to 
our Open House and On-Campus Inter
views, well be glad to tell you about all the 
other reasons.
Today, Harris is a Fortune 200 company with 
sales of $2 billion. And the outlook for tomorrow is even more promising. Career open
ings exist with Harris at various locations in 
Florida, New York, California and Texas. We 
are interested in meeting candidates at all 
degree levels in:
EE and Computer Science
On-Campus Interviews 
Thursday (Nov. 15)
See your Placement Office for details.
We are an equal opportunity employer. M/F/H/V 
U.S. Citizenship is required for certain positions.
HARRIS
Football, soccer, and volleyball fill this 
weeks varsity sports schedule. The action 
will be:
Football  
Sat., Nov. 3
Soccer  
Tues., Oct.
Sat., Nov. 3
30
Case Western Reserve U. 
at Case Western, 2:00 * *
University of Pittsburgh 
at CMU, 3:30 *
Robert Morris College 
at Robert Morris, 1:00
Womens Volleyball 
Tues., Oct. 30 W&J and Carlow College 
at W&J, 6:30 
Sat., Nov. 3 Pennwood West Confer
ence Tournament 
at CMU
* Live coverage on WRCT radio, FM 88.3, 
with announcers Chris Lewis (soccer and 
football), Neil Jordan (soccer), and Jeff 
Bergman (football).
These people 
and 3 million 
others have 
something to 
celebrate.
They beat cancer.
We are winning.
AMERICAN 
VCANCER 
? SOCIETY
This space contributed as a public service
ALLEGHENY WOMENS 
CENTER
an out patient medical clinic offering
 Abortionasleep or awake
 Morning After Treatment
 Birth Control
 Related Services
PHONE 412/362-2920\UeghenyH tomens Center_
Mr4(il Center tjft Mr4( 
711 North WhittieM St 
fiHibufgtt, PA KM* 
fHONi (U/JU-m

---------------------------------------------------

October 30, 1984The TartanPage 19
Lacrosse club to practice
The CMU Lacrosse club is holding a fall practice on the IM Field this Saturday 
at 3 pm. Those interested in playing can show up then_
THE IDEAL 
PROBLEM SOLVER
A Guide for Improving Thinking, Learning, and Creativity
John D. Bransford and Barry S. Stein
This highly readable book by two 
cognitive psychologists teaches a sound, methodical approach for resolving problems. The authors suggest new strategies for improving memory, for overcoming blocks to creativity, and for communicating more effectively with a wider range of people. Liberally sprinkled with everyday examples, brain-teasing drawings, and amusing anecdotes, The IDEAL Problem Solver is the ideal remedy for the myriad problems that confront and confound us daily.224 pages, 39 illustrations. Paper: ISBN 0-7167-1669-0 $7.95
Available at fine bookstores. To order from the publisher, send check or money order 
(please include $1.50 for shipping and handling; New York, California and Utah 
residents add appropriate sales tax) to: W.H. Freeman and Company, 4419 West 1980
0155 IS
ouin, ban LaKe uiy, uian 4iU4.
FELLOWSHIPS
Since 1949, more than 5,000 men and women have 
earned advanced degrees in engineering and science 
with the help of Hughes fellowships. The Hughes com
mitment to furthering your education and your career.
More than 100 new fellowships will be available in 
the coming year for graduate study in:
Engineering (Electrical, Mechanical,
Systems, Aeronautical)
Computer Science 
Applied Math 
Physics
As a Hughes fellow, you could be studying for your 
Masters, Engineer, or PhD degree while receiving: 
Tuition, books, and fees 
Educational stipend 
Full employee benefits 
Relocation expenses 
Professional-level salary 
Summer employment 
Technical experience 
Total Value: $25,000 to $50,000 a year.
Youll also have the opportunity to gain valuable 
on-the-job experience at Hughes facilities in Southern 
California and Arizona while youre completing your degree.
Work Study Fellows work part-time during the 
academic year while studying at a nearby university. Full 
Study Fellows work in the summer and study full-time.
And since Hughes is involved with more than 90 
technologies, a wide range of technical assignments is 
available. In fact, an Engineering Rotation Program is 
available for those interested in diversifying their work 
experience
If youd like assistance from a company committed 
to advancing the frontiers of technology, fill out and mail 
the coupon below Or write to:
Hughes Aircraft Company
Corporate Fellowship Office
Dept. NC, Bldg. C2/B168
P.O. Box 1042, El Segundo, CA 90245
Proof of U.S. Citizenship Required 
Equal Opportunity Employer
THE COMMITMENT 
BEHIND THE PROGRAM
Hughes Aircraft Company, Corporate Fellowship Office, Dept. NC 
Bldg. C2/B168, P.O. Box 1042, El Segundo, CA 90245.
Please consider me a candidate for a Hughes Fellowship and send me the 
necessary information and application materials.
HUGHES
Al RC HAFT COMPANY
PLEASE PRINT: Name
AddressDate
City
I am interested in obtaining a Master's, 
in the field of_______________________
State 
Engineer degree.
Zip
Doctorate.
DEGREES NOW HELD (OR EXPECTED)
Bachelor's Date_______________Field _
Masters Date_______________Field___
School.G.P A
School.G PA
WRITE YOURSELF IN
U S Citizenship Required

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
The Tartan backs Mndale for president
This election year federal deficits and eliminating that ominous debt. Four more tomorrow it may be you, until the whole fabric
military spending are at record levels. Walter years of Reagan would see a continuation of of our harmonious society is ripped at a time
F. Mndale has said he will trim that deficit current deficit-inducing policies. of great national peril.
by slowing growth of the most inefficient . Five Supreme Court justices are over 80 yearsj 1 r _ i. Mndales record on arms control is quite r J 1government spender, the Pentagon, and by wu i u  i  ld, and Jerry Falwell has promised his flock  _ *ov~c clear. While senator, he was instrumental in , ...rnraising taxes. . CATT-T S . ., , they will have two justices if Reagan is re-preparmg SALT I, and as vice-president he 7 , . J 6
This is perhaps not the best method for cut- pushed for passage of SALT II. Mndale has e ected- Falwe111S not a party leader and does ,
ting the deficit; it is, however, better than consistently opposed legislation providing n0t dictate what Reagan will do. But Falwell
Ronald Reagans approach. Reagan relies on money for inefficient weapons like the MX was a speaker at the Republican National Conan unrealistic economic growth rate of four missile, B-l bomber and out-of-date aircraft vention. The Republican platform counters
percent over four years, while planning to in- carriers. The Republicans have argued that Mn aleS suPPort of the proposed Equal
crease military spending 13 percent. such weapons would bring the Soviets to arms Rights Amendment and a womans right to. i . n Tj , r S have an abortion. These questions and othersThe deficit is an urgent problem the control talks. Reagan has even referred to the will be resolved decades after this election by
Republican Party has addressed for decades. 1 as.1 e Peacekeeper Although Reagan ^ Supreme Court The choice yQu make
For some reason, Reagan has ignored that par- ministration officials have met repeatedly November 6 will affect the direction of
ty dedication and the promise he made four Wlth the Soviets over the past four years, no American law in the next century, not just the
years ago to eliminate deficit spending. Walter agreement has been reached as only une- next four years %Mndale has, at least, addressed the problem. quitable proposals have been made. ^ ayerage income Qf fam1es
A Mndale victory would result in bi- Mndale has promised relijgion will not be children to CMU has risen dramatically; not
partisan budget trimming. Democrats, with an issue if he is president. Reagan has promis- because Americans are better off, but because
the help of moderate, senior Republicans like ed to reintroduce a bill allowing each com- middle class families are finding it increasingBob Dole and Lowell Wiecker, would pass tax munity to decide whether or not to allow prayer ly difficult to send students here due to finanreforms, shifting a heavier burden on the rich. in their schools. Reagans suggestion may or cial aid cuts under the Reagan Administration.
This would greatly increase government may not be right in theory. In practice, Mndale has promised to restore aid to
revenues, decreasing deficit. The same coali- however, history again proves the danger of pre-1980 levels. Again, Reagan has declined to
tion would limit military growth to about five such legislation. When last such religious specify what he will do. We who have chosen
percent. Meanwhile, a largely Republican freedom was legal, cases of schoolmasters this practical education at CMU know the *'
Senate would continue to block Mndale Ad- beating Jewish students for failure to pray to value of education. It is an investment in our
ministration social spending. Jesus Christ were reported. As John F. Kennedy future - a future that looks brighter if Walter
The combination would go far in pointed out, Today I may be the victim, but Mndale is elected next week.
The Libertarian Alternative ,Voting for Reagan or Mndale a waste
By DAN TOBIAS political party calling for across-the-board for federal, state and local office, will send and cast their votes for a candidate who cancutbacks in the size and power of an unmistakeable message that the govern- really make a difference, they can radicallyIn previous columns, I have shown that government. ment has overstepped its proper bounds and alter the structure of American politics %neither Reagan or Mndale offers much pro- Unfortunately, many of you who agree the is invading the liberties of the people, and overnight.mise as a proponent of individual liberty. government is much too big and intrusive, the people are no longer willing to passively The higher the vote received by Liber-However.jhey are not the only people run- and who have no great liking for either ma- accept this. tarian candidates, the more attention thening for president, regardless of jor party candidate, still think they must A large Libertarian vote, even if it doesnt media will give their future campaigns. Even^ what the media will have you vote for the lesser of two evils on Election come near electing any Libertarian can- if no Libertarian is ever elected to major of-! believe. Day. They say they would be throwing their didate, will still put some fear into the hearts fice, a great benefit to individual libertyThere is also David Bergland, vote away if they voted for a candidate from of establishment politicians into paying would be achieved if Libertarian positionsthe candidate of the Libertarian Party. His a minor party, who has no chance of more attention to individual liberty in for- become a part of the political debate, ratherplatform calls for respect for liberty in all winning. mulating their policies. than being shoved off to the side asareas, whether social or economic, and an But in fact, it is the people who vote for Additionally, the assumption that Liber- unrealisticT and radical,end to government intervention in our a Republican or a Democrat who are throw- tarian candidates have no chance of win- an everyday part of political debate would ,peaceful, noncoercive activities. He would ing their votes away. These people are tell- ning is false. Libertarians have been elected be almost as big a victory as actually win-abolish draft registration, lower (and even- ing politicians and bureaucrats they are to local offices in several states, including two continued on page 24tually eliminate) taxes, and eliminate pleased with what they have been doing to seats in the Alaska State Legislature. The  IHH criminal penalties for gambling, prostitu- them for years, and giving them a mandate number of Libertarian office holders is likely tion, and other victimless crimes. The for more of the same. to increase as this growing movement B B B^^B BBLibertarian Party offers the only true alter- On the other hand, voting for David expands. Editor-m-Chief...............Ric Medrownative to politics as usual, and is the only Bergland, and other Libertarian candidates Often the major thing stopping these Managing Editor.............Mike Pilewskif*r0*lr \/if*\A/ races from becoming winnable is the self- Business Manager______________Neil GreenblumUlSLUf Vffefi.V IsfW fulfilling prophecy on the part of the public News Editor.......................Christopher D. Lewis J q|X Y\g VI iqU I AQlf AC I m O and media who assume the candidate has Features Editor..................Neal W. Johnston? ldlT-Ury rUbn IwdVub 1111 pdU X no chance of winning. Bergland has said, Entertainment Editor... Lesley BrunkerIf every voter dissatisfied with the choice of Sports Editor................Don EggertBy Marc Bolan They managed to yield 37 pledges, the most Mndale and Reagan were to vote for me, Photography Editor.......Mike Pilewski *Each year in September and October the out of all the fraternities and sororities, while I would win in a landslide. In fact, the Production Manager. Michele Reisingersounds of the air fill up each Friday and partaking in a dry rush. Their success car- plurality in recent elections has been made Ad Manager..................Steve VolanSaturday night with parties. This year has ried over to other houses who yielded good up of the people who have failed to vote at Typesetting Manager.... .Jill Clellandcome and gone, but thats not to say it hasnt pledge classes while going through a half- all. If these people can be motivated to go Art Director...... Michael A. Sussmanleft its impact. This year the dry Rush. Assoc. Business Mgr. ...Bonnie Topfuniversity implemented a half- It appears the half-dry Rush works. There 2 Asst- News Editor.........Karen Graydry Rush policy in an attempt to were no problems with the fraternities and L# XX XXvJX1 JL UXX\^ B Asst. Features Editor. . .Arthur Gelmiscut down on alcohol consump- sororities during Rush, and it appear, that appear at the Ugmnmgof,heopimon Asst Ent Editor.............Adanr> Haninnon and perhaps even avoid the problems in the future, the half dry Rush policy will and are lhr ojfulal ,,ptnum of 1Tu. Tar. Asst. Sports Editor.....Scott Bozicof a year before. be used again. Hopefully, we have shown the Utn Editorial Board. Asst. Production Mgr. . Katrin WesnerEven though many felt this policy would campus community the appeal to Greek life Columns are the opinions of individual authors Contributing Editor.........Pauline Wencurtail the growing popularity of Greek life is not through alcohol, but in the countless who are usually on The* Tartan staff, but the Editorial Assistant.......Mohan Embar(remember the old adage, all fraternity men ways it benefits the campus and Pittsburgh opinions are not necessarily those of Ilie Tarian Production Staff: Bob Aarhus, Tinado is drink), this year the fraternities and community. Editorial Board. Hatchl, Dana Hausman, Evan McDonnell,sororities managed to surpass last years total IFC would like to congratulate all the Letters to the Editor are opinions of individual jay West,of pledges. This is very important in that it houses on their pledges and hope that authors who are usually members of the Univer- i. _  i   . . r i_ it    , . , r> ti j j sitv community. A letter intended for publication Copyright 1984 by The Tartan The Editorial Boardbacks up our claim that Greek life is not just everyone who took part in Rush had a eood y y . .. . ... ' . ,.. ... , ,r. r j  ir-j must be signed and include the writers address reserves the right to withhold from publication any copya social group created for the purposes of time and in some way benefited. ^ ^ Names * to unfit to publicaron. Editorial Offices: Skiboconsuming alcohol. The Greek View  a weekly column in bf wUhhM upm reqursl n. Tar|a Ksenes 50,14121 578-2111. Business Offices Skibo 52, (4121Z.B.T., as an example, proved that alcohol The Tartan and is written in coordination ('u, n , ( [(J coruense (rr reject any letter 578-2112.24 hour phone, (412) 578-2113. Mailing ad-is not a necessity to attract people to join. with Interfratemity Council. dress: Box 17, Schenley Park. Pittsburflh PA 15213. -

---------------------------------------------------

October 30, 1984The TartanPage 21
Letters:
Hoburg calls for discretion
President needs student 
input on housing deposit
By BILL McCORMICK
Would you like to pay a $200 deposit to 
reserve your dorm room for next year? Do 
you want to pay an additional 
security deposit of as much as 
$50? Fred Rogers, Vice President 
for Business Affairs, is proposing 
such deposits for next year. A group of 
students will meet with Rogers to discuss his 
proposals, and we need your feedback to 
represent you properly.
Each deposit is designed for its own 
reason. It is hoped the increase in deposit 
required to reserve your room will lower the 
number of vacancies in dorms. The increase 
will further discourage people from reservReagan domestic 
policy designed 
to create failure
By STUART SHAPIRO
President Reagans domestic record differs 
significantly from his foreign policy perfor
mance. The failure of his foreign policy, 
albeit characterized by the same 
lack of knowledge and 
understanding as his domestic 
program, has not been his 
ultimate objective. On the other hand, his 
domestic failures have been principally the 
result of policies and actions expressly 
designed to produce failure.
No better example of this exists than 
Reagans environmental policy. Through 
Anne Burford at the Environmental Protec
tion Agency and James Watt at the Depart
ment of the Interior, the Reagan Ad
ministration sought to cripple those agen
cies. At the EPA, enforcement was curbed 
I bY a combination of budget cuts and 
outright foot dragging.
Morale plummeted as Burford and her 
staff chose to abdicate their legal respon
sibilities on ideological grounds. Even under 
I William Ruckelshaus, a man whos integri
ty seems out of place in this administration, 
I the agency has often been kept in check by 
I David Stockman and the Office of Manage
ment and Budget.
I Likewise, James Watt made a mockery of 
Interior, committing it to development 
rather than conservation. He sought to 
lunload federal land and its resources with 
I continued on page 24
Editor:
The Tartan has recently been running 
advertisements, in its Classifieds section, 
under the heading Research papers!. The 
following repeats the text of a letter I sub
mitted to The Tartan a few years ago, re
questing some responsible editorial 
judgement:
Such a catalog describes re
search papers, which may be purchased 
and falsely submitted as representing the 
original work of a student. Such an action 
constitutes plagiarism, as defined in the sec
tion on academic regulations of the student 
handbook, and is punishable by an ordinary 
penalty of failure in the course, with par
ticularly serious offenses punishable by 
suspension or expulsion from the university.
My impression is that the vast majority of 
students at CMU are dismayed by instances 
of cheating and plagiarism, and are in favor
of firm and expeditious actions against of
fenders. Faculty members and ad
ministrators do their best to see that this 
policy is carried out and that the University 
is a place for honest learning and creation. 
Id like to appeal the The Tartan for help  
please dont facilitate communication be
tween cheaters by printing such travesties. 
As well, Id like to appeal to the student com
munity for help please remove research 
catalog advertisements from the bulletin 
boards as fast as they appear, and deposit 
them in the nearest trash can  they have no 
more place on a university bulletin board 
than advertisements for stolen goods.
Jim Hoburg
Professor of Electrical and Computer 
Engine ering
Editors Note: The editor apologizes for this 
oversight. Such advertisements will not ap
pear in The Tartan in the future.
Fraternity admits youth
ing a room, and cancelling their contract 
when they find a better place to live. Under 
the new proposal, youll lose $200 if you 
break your housing contract (instead of the 
$100 youd have lost this year). Advantage: 
a lower vacancy rate would increase the in
come of the housing office, reducing the perperson housing cost. The savings would 
then, in theory, be passed on to us. Disad
vantage: You pay an extra $100 during the 
spring semester.
The security deposit is designed to reduce 
vandalism and make it easier for the univer
sity to collect damage charges from you. 
However, it is possible that it may increase 
valndalism as each student tries to get his 
moneys worth from his deposit. Another 
disadvantage is that, although you will be 
paid interest on your deposit, you are de
prived of the use of your $ )r for the year.
These proposals will be discussed in two 
weeks, and the action that is decided upon 
will depend largely upon your opinion. 
Therefore, if you want your views to be 
represented, get your opinions in while they 
still matter.

There is still a chance for you to become 
involved with the Presidential Services Com
mittee. If you are interested in finding out 
how food service, housing, and the campus 
stores really work and in injecting student 
input into their operations, this is the place 
for you. Our next meeting, and your last 
chance, is on Thursday at 8pm in Skibo 
Room IS.

I am suprised at the lack of com
ments/compliments/complaints that Ive 
received about conditions here at CMU. If 
you have a concern, let me know about it. 
My job is to represent you and lobby for your 
interests. I need your opinions to represent 
you properly. Below Ive listed several con
ventional ways you can reach me:
1) I am in the Senate office (Skibo 59) 
every Tuesday between 11:30 and 12:30
2) You can leave me a note in my 
mailbox at the Skibo Desk
3) I live on campus and am listed in the 
C-Book. Stop by or give me a call.
4) Send mail to WM7M at CMCCTD.
I hope to hear from you soon.
Bill McCormick is president of student 
government and writes a column for The 
Tartan.
Editor:
On Friday night, October 12, my 
girlfriend, two friends and I decided to 
munch some fries at the O. Before we had 
set foot off campus my eye was caught by 
a young girl trying to take off her pants. She 
was restrained by one of her giggling peers. 
There were about seven of them. As we were 
watching, a couple of them came up to us 
and drunkenly introduced themselves.
We started talking with them and found 
they were sophomores and juniors from a 
local high school. They said they were on 
their way to a party and had just come from 
drinking at the frats.
One of the sober girls was pretty upset 
because she was responsible for getting her
friends home. The one who had tried to take 
off her pants needed to find a bathroom 
quickly, so we helped with that as well.
The universal response from a fraternity 
would be that the girls got themselves drunk 
and therefore it was their own responsibili
ty. This should be a familiar scene to 
veterans of last years Shadyside hospital 
fiasco. Fraternities have rules, and one of 
them is no high school students are to be ad
mitted to their parties. This is one of the 
reasons for very visible doormen seen at each 
frat party. If a fraternity refuses to take 
responsibility for the actions of its brothers, 
perhaps this campus would be better off 
without them.
Patrick E. Dominguez
Student protest at Brown
Editor:
I am a member of the Brown University 
group, Students for Suicide Tablets. Much 
of the publicity has distorted our message, 
by emphasizing the word,suicide.For ex
ample, a New York Times headline read, 
Students to Vote on Suicide.It is impor
tant that our ideas be understood.
Our referendum, which passed by a 60% 
majority, but is not binding on the Univer
sity, requests that suicide tablets be stocked 
a Brownss Health Services, for optional stu
dent use, in the event of a nuclear war.This 
is not a suicidal or defeatist approach to the 
threat of nuclear war. It is aimed at dispel
ling the notion that we could survive such a 
holocaust. Suicide pills negate civil defense. 
In a nuclear war, there is no defense (unless 
perhaps, you are a general or a president, 
with access to deep underground shelters). 
Hoping for survival is dangerous because 
it makes the idea of nuclear war more ac
ceptable, and thus increases the chances that 
it could happen.
Many Brown students voted for the 
referendum to express their fear and despair 
in a purely symbolic way. Others actually 
want Brown to stockpile the pills, because 
they consider the threat of nuclear war a 
very real one. Would the idea of suicide seem 
so bizarre if you were dying a slow, painful 
death from radiation sickness? It would be 
more akin to euthanasia.
Would it be dangerous to stockpile poison 
on a college campus? Well, the chenrstry 
building at Brown is already chock full of 
deadly substances, including cyanide, that 
could be used by some unbalanced person 
to harm himself or others. Suicide pills could 
be secured in a vault, and would pose no 
danger. By stockpiling real pills, we would 
emphasize that nuclear war is a real threat.
The missiles sure are real.
Is stockpiling suicide pills tantamount to 
accepting nuclear war? Hardly. Who wants 
to kill themselves? Most of us dont. By 
equating nuclear war with suicide, we are 
urging people to stop it from happening. 
What can be done? Well, a mutual, 
verifiable freeze on the production of 
nuclear weapons would be a start. Ronald 
Reagans strategy of negotiation from 
strength has accomplished nothing. If we 
increase our stockpile of nuclear weapons, 
why would the Soviet Union want to decrease 
theirs?
Reagan claims that he has brought 
America back from a position of weakness 
to one of strength. This is misleading. The 
United States has never been strategically 
weaker than the Soviet Union. We have been 
at parity with each other since the sixties, 
when we lost our strategic superiority.
What Reagan really wants is to restore 
American superiority (this is exactly what an 
outer space defensive system wouM do, if 
successful). But this will not increase our 
security. On the contrary, it is destabilizing 
and dangerous, not to mention draining on 
our economy. Superiority is dangerous, 
because it promotes the idea that a victory 
is possible, and, like hoping for post-war sur
vival, it increases the chances that a nuclear 
war could occur.
But arms control is not enough. Even if 
both sides cut their stockpile of nuclear 
warheads by half, there would still be 
enough firepower with which to destroy 
ourselves. Better relations with Moscow are 
essential. This means more than simply 
meeting with the Soviets. It entails, among 
other things, a re-evaluation of our position 
in the world vis-a-vis the Soviet Union and 
continued on peg 23

---------------------------------------------------

Election 1984 Cartoons Page
by Mike Sussman and Mark Kirshnerc-tou
TOPE
AMP V5 Hi., Xef CiiARLV
|JR\TTM fW 
SotuTibo .Te>
1C DCFIOT
HEi%tvPHcs ai
IBIS FbSTSE 
SlArtP Orde <9uesr/<v;>"
Vfclta*
pif**

---------------------------------------------------

October 30, 1984The TartanPage 23
Navigation and guidance systems, real-time digital and 
analog communications, avionics integration, signal 
processing, inertial sensor assemblies. Work on these 
complex assignments and others while bringing your 
career into clear focus, with Kearfott.
See your Placement Office for our company profile and to 
sign up for a one-on-one interview. U.S. citizenship 
required. An equal opportunity employer, m/f, who 
creates opportunities.
Kearfott
a division of The SI N G E R Company
BS&MSEE,BS Physics,
BS & MSCS
CAMPUS
INTERVIEWS
FRIDAY,
N0V.16
|Vlore letters:
Brown student explains suicide pills
renada medical student dispels illusions
ditor:
As one of the medical students in Grenada 
t this time last year, I am deeply concernd about so-called Student Liberation 
ays organized on college campuses by 
ght-wing groups, to celebrate the United 
tates invasion of Grenada.
Whether my life and those of my fellow 
edical students were endangered by the 
up that overthrew Maurice Bishop is very 
uch open to question. It is clear, however, 
ur liberation by the Reagan Administraon came at a terrible cost: dozens of young 
merican, Cuban and Grenadian lives. 
That is a fact that the people organizing 
tudent Liberation Day may not want you 
know. Nor may they want you to know the 
ourse theyd like to see our nation follow in 
ther parts of Latin America, namely places 
ke Nicaragua, El Salvador and Honduras. 
If American troops are sent to Central 
merica, its more likely they will fight 
tousands of well-trained soldiers and 
erillas willing to give everything to defend 
eir homelands and their ideals.
As in Viet Nam, American soldiers will 
ice the uncertainty of whether peasants in 
ie village before them are friend or foe. 
l^hey will battle again in scorching heat, 
cense and hilly terrain and unfamiliar 
territory.
K Polls show most students, as well as the 
Bpajority of Americans, want peace in CenBjral America through political and 
4plimatic means, not more bloodshed 
pirough clumsy and misguided American 
Sjitervention. If the organizers behind Stu
dent Liberation Day mean to suggest 
through their mindless celebration of the in
vasion of Grenada that students support 
military adventures on behalf of unpopular 
and repressive dictators in Central America, 
I suggest they ask students first.
Instead of celebrating the liberation of 
students, their actions only encourage 
decimation of students. The publicity from 
their rallies, if not countered immediately, 
encourages the worst tendencies of our 
government to believe it will be politically
acceptable to send us off to war.
They should recognize, as El Salvadoran 
president Jose Napoleon Duarte has, that 
hundreds of years of poverty, exploitation 
and despair are at the roots of the conflict 
in Central America, not the struggle bet
ween foreign ideologies. They should 
recognize, as most students do, that it only 
hurts the prospects for peace when our 
government supports those who havae the 
most to gain by continued bloodshed: the 
contras in Nicaragua and the govemmenttolerated death squads in El Salvador and 
elsewhere.
THere still is time to act before our 
government sends us on a hopeless mission 
in Central America. Regardless of the 
foolishness of these right-wing Student 
Liberation Days, let us ensure that our 
country not repeat the mistakes of the past 
by getting involved in an endless war on the 
wrong side of the battle.
Morty Weissfelner 
St. Georges University School of Medicine
107 SIXTH ST. 
DOWNTOWN PITTSBBGH 
(4X2) 562-1900
continued from page 21
the Third World.
Should we continue to confuse internal, 
popular revolutions with Soviet expan
sionism? Why did the Administration 
-mother (for six months) a government 
report stating that the Soviets are not con
trolling Nicaragua? Our dogmatic, inflexi
ble approach to leftist governments is, 
ronically, pushing these countries towards 
he Soviet Union, and dveloping new opporunities for a conflict that could go nuclear.
We must correctly evaluate when our 
ecurity is being threatened, and when it is 
ot. And we must not only stop the antiSoviet rhetoric, but also communicate to 
Moscow our sincere desire to co-exist in 
peace. This may seen naive to some, but it 
is less naive than equating greater numbers 
of missiles with greater security.
These ideas are not new, and they are only 
some of the ways in which to avoid nuclear 
war, But the Reagan Administration has 
done nothing in this direction. The purpose 
of requesting suicide pills for use after a 
nuclear war is to show the urgency of the 
problem, to show that students are afraid, 
that they consider nuclear war a distinct 
possibility in their future, and that they con
sider such a war unendurable. The govern
ment must discard defensive star-wars 
weapons projects and dubious civil defense 
plans. We must act now, before a war is 
started, to prevent nuclear suicide.
James R. Knebleman, 85
PS Many agree with our message, but think 
that there are more positive ways to ap
proach the problem. Because of possible 
misunderstandings, we have changed our 
name to Students Against Nuclear Suicide. 
We are calling on colleges around the coun
try to rally against nuclear suicide on 
November 2.
50,000 people 
will be 
saved from 
colorectal 
cancer this 
year. You can 
save one.
Save yourself! Colorectal 
cancer is the second leading 
cause of cancer deaths after 
lung cancer. If youre over 50, 
you should take the simple, 
easy slide test of your stool 
every year.
The Stool Blood Test kit 
is chemically treated to detect 
hidden blood in the stool.
Other tests for colorectal 
cancer you should talk to your 
doctor about: digital rectal ex
am (after 40), and the procto 
test (after 50). Tell him of any 
family history of colitis, 
polyps, and any change in 
your bowel habits, which 
could be a cancer warning 
signal.
The American Cancer 
Society wants you to know
GYN 
CHECK-UPS
ABORTION
SERVICES
FREE
PREGNANCY TESTS
CONFIDENTIAL
COUNSELING
Women's
Health
Services,.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24The TartanOctober 30, 1984
Reagan policy means purposeful failure
continued from page 21a fervor truly appalling. His utter contempt for those who voiced concern was constantly visible. Under William Clark, public relations have improved, but not the policies.Reagans treatment of income maintenance programs has also been maliciously destructive. Ideologically hostile to such programs as food stamps and Aid to Families with Dependent Children, Reagan asked for and unfortunately received reductions in these programs that pushed more than half a million people below the poverty line. During the first three years of Reagans term, the number of people living in poverty increased by six million.At the same time, the administration was moving in the same direction with Social Security disability payments. Congress unwittingly provided the mechanism for this attack. In 1980, Congress ordered a review of the program as a result of its alarmingly
high rate of growth.Once in office, the Reagan Administration made use of the authority granted by Congress to trim the disability roles in a manner that can only be described as callous and cavalier. Of the half million people removed from the rolls, 200,000 eventually were restored by court order, but not without enduring a great deal of hardship as a result of the administrations almost obscene eagerness to cut off benefits.Votes wasted on Mondale, Reagan
continued from page 20ning an election. Unlike other political parties, Libertarians do not want power; their goal is to bring about a free society. If such a society is achieved, it would be regarded as a great victory for Libertarianism, even if it is achieved without a single LP candidate ever being elected. We are running for office purely as a means of attaining individual liberty, rather than as an end in itself.
o, I hope you go out on election day and ast your ballots, not for the lesser of the evils, but for a candidate or party which you really believe in. Thus, if you are actually wholeheartedly for Mondale or Reagan, then by all means vote for him. If you ac
tively support the platform of the Communist, Socialist Worker, Consumer, or Workers League party (or any other party
or minor candidate I may have failed to
mention), go and vote for that party.However, if you dont like the vast, bloated government, all of these candidates advocate, with the accompanying decline in freedom to live your life as you wish, then your vote can be put to its most effective use by voting for Libertarian candidates.
Dan Tobias is a junior in applied math and writes The Libertarian Alternative for The Tartan.
That the Reagan Administration is inimical to the human rights of a large portion of American citizens has been even more clearly demonstrated by its performance with regard to civil rights. Mr. Reagans opposition to the extension of the Voting Rights Act and his stacking of the Civil Rights Commission were illustrative his determination to dampen positive federal action in support of civil rights.The Reagan Justice Department has been active in its defense of discrimination  arguing in favor of tax exemptions for private schools that practice racial discrimination and against school desegregation plans involving busing  while often declining to take legal action supportative of civil rights. Reagans record on civil rights is noteworthy only as a result of his administrations concerted attempts to under^l mine them.Finally, Mr. Reagan has been noteworthy in his support of proposals noteworthy for their intrusive nature. His embrace of the 
continued on page 28
Youre deep under the sea.
There are 4600 tons of nuclearpowered submarine around 
you. Your mission- to preserve 
the peace.
Your job- to coordinate a 
practice missile launch. Every
thing about the sub is state-ofthe-art, including you.
The exercise-a success. Youre 
part of that success and now 
youre riding high.
In the nuclear Navy, you learn 
quickly. Over half of Americas 
nuclear reactors are in the 
Navy. And that means you get 
hands-on experience fast.
You get rewarded fast, too. 
With a great starting salary of 
$22,000 that can build to as 
much as $44,000 after five years. 
And with training and skills 
youll use for a lifetime.
Then, whether youre in the
Mediterranean^the Pacific or 
the Atlantic^wherever you 
move arourtdlhe world, youll 
be movingTTp in your career 
and in the Navy. _ ~~nr==rFind out more about an 
exciting future iTiat vou ctttt 
start today. -.T
See voiir Navy Recruiter or CALL800-327-NAVY. -
NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST.

---------------------------------------------------

Camegie-Mellon University
PRESENTS
NOVEMBER 5th 1984
SCAjFE HALL AUDfWRIUM 
1:30 - 3:00 PM
A Graphic Presentation of Performance 
Highlights Past, Present and Future
 Informal discussion 
following Presentation 
1985 Turbo Euro-Sedah 
___vehicle on display___~

---------------------------------------------------

Custom Designed Hairstylesthat only look expensive!
Our professional stylists know that to custom cut your hair the way you want, they 
must listen to what you want That's why at Great Expectations you'll leave 
with the style you had in mind at a price you can afford.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
237 Atwood Street Mon., Tues., Wed. 10-7 No Appointment
Across the street from Thurs., Frl. 10-9
Oakland Post Office Sat. 9-6
PERMS FOR All STYLFS$25.00
WASH, CUT AND 
BLOW DRY
$13.00
IANY LENGTH)
0s
UNISEX 
HAIR SALON 
687-3500
ENPCCnTMRS
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
This Thanksgiving, 
ride a BUS home for ess!
CLEVELAND/toledo $30
*
SOUTH bend/CHICAGO  $50
THESECOND CITY
SPECIAL
Traveling home for the holidays was never easier. 
Or more fun. See the Skibo Ride Board for more details.
Scotch ri Soda presents
Round and Round 
the Garden
by Alan Ayckbourn
FRIDAY, NOV. 2 and SATURDAY, NOV. 3 
8 PM in the WHERRETT ROOM, SKJBO 
TICKETS: $3.00 available at Skibo Info Desk, Baker Hall 
lobby (between 10 and 2 pm) and on Nov. l at 
Morewood Gardens during dinner (between 4:30 and
7 PI) f w  ufunded by Actiuities Fee
CMU #1
CAPRI PIZZA # 1
Per Friendly Service and the Best Products 
We Use 1CC% Pure Mozzarella Cheese, 
Dc ethers?
LARGE 1C CUT PIZZA INCLUDING 2 LITERS CE PEPSI
S3. SCFOR LUNCH Sc DINNER
EAT IN CP TARE CUT
PIZZA-Z
Order your favorite 
with all the extras'
fCEE DELIVERY <5:CC PM-2: AM 
OPEN 1 DAYS A WEEK 
3415 ECPEES AVE. PGH. PA, 15213 
PHONE 081-2202 OP 681-22C3

---------------------------------------------------

Finies.
Joe FreshmanBy Mark Levine
( WND ft HiCf. Of
I p, IU661N6 till %s 
(OOVPfMNT O'JE?. tfEKE 
TO?- THE
3oindexterBy Maszle and Beyer
Vo# I t>ior!! tmoss
ARB WK Zcnot6>[
THAT ^>CFLA\ttf> THF
yA- Qf% !
ACROSS
1 Desert dweller 
5 Strike 
9 Timid
12 Float in air
13 Comfort
14 Beverage
15 Punctuation 
mark
17 That man
18 Male sheep
19 Snare 
21 Retains 
23 Persevere
27 Diphthong
28 Old-womanish
29 Negative 
31 Flap
34 Kind of type: 
abbr.
35 Abstract being 
37 Openwork
fabric 
39 Chinese 
distance
measure 
40 At present 
42 Small child 
44 Measuring 
device 
46 Apart from 
48 Dealt secretly 
50 Last
53 Encounter
54 Goal
55 Above 
57 Handles
61 Consumed
62 Evaluate
64 Disturbance
65 Rocky hill
66 Goddess of 
discord
67 Portico
DOWN
1 Viper
2 Fish eggs
3 Swiss river
4 Easily broken
CROSS
WORD
PUZZLE
FROM COLLEGE 
PRESS SERVICE
5 Style of 
automobile
6 Note of scale
7 Hard-wood tree
8 Sly look
1234 !
12
15
Thoroughfare
Pile
Sweet potatoes 
The East 
Play on words 
Apiece: abbr. 
Son of Adam 
To and upon 
Symbol for 
nickel 
Vast age 
Mollify
Toward shelter
Flying creature
Drunkard
Seesaws
Marvel
Scottish cap
Initials of 26th
President
Note of scale
Apportions
Exploit
Toward and
within
Entice
Equality
River island
Also
Music: as 
written 
Agave plant
 1064 United Feature Syndicate
Put words in their mouthSt
Sometimes this school gets so bad that I just want to point a gun to my head...
Well, why dont you, then?
CMU Vice-President for Business Affairs Fred Rogers and Tartan Assistant 
News Editor Karen Gray at a press conference held recently in the Faculty Club.
The Tartan announces its first
CAN WE QUOTE YOU ON THAT?
caption contest!
Ever wondered what the subjects of news pictures are really 
saying when the shutter clicks? Here's your chance to show us 
what you think:
1.) Write a funny caption to this picture.
2.) Put it in an envelope with your name, campus address and 
phone number, and send it via Campus Mail, or deliver, to The 
Tartan, Room 50, Skibo.
3.) Check next week's paper, where the winning entries will be 
displayed.
4.) Contest ends Friday, Nov. 2 at 5:00 pm. All entries become 
the property of the Tartan, and no entries can be returned.

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
CLASSIFIEDS
Exciting Jobs Abroad! For information packet, 
send $3 to PO Box 31, Claremont, CA 91711. 
Wanted: Models for figure and glamour
photography. Please send picture. Write Post Of
fice Box 10161, Pittsburgh, PA 15232. 
Shadyside Apartment Available. 3rd floor, 
private home  3 blocks CMU. Private kitchen. 
$190 per month includes utilities. Security 
deposit, lease, references required. Single, grad 
student preferred. 687-6080 evenings/weekends. 
1 br apt, furnished, available Dec., Friendship 
area, near shuttle, a/c, w/w, off-street parking, 
$290 (incl. heat), 361-2120.
Refrigerator for sale  Compact Sanyo. Ideal 
for dorm room. Like new. Asking $75. 531-0822. 
Oakland. Dawson St; very nice, spacious 4-room 
apt. Fully furnished, utilities paid, suitable for 
2-3 people. 687-2642. Tim. $360 a month. 
Word Processing: Manuscripts, resumes, and 
cover letters, dissertations, term papers; Exact 
copy/editing available, 24-hour service, 
621-8544/681-5416.
Part time help wanted: Waitress, apply in per
son. Panther Hollow Inn. 4611 Forbes Ave. 
682-9999.
Papermart  one-stop party shopping. We
carry everything to make your party a success  
great Halloween accessories. Baum Blvd. at 
Morewood. 681-8900.
EXOTIC DANCERS  Entertainment for par
ties, male and female dancers. Stripper-grams. 
931-3255.
Apartment, excellent location. Offers one 
bedroom, remodelled with new kitchen and bath. 
Ideal for two students to share. Only $340 per 
month, including utilities. CMUs shuttlebus ser
vice at front door. 682-7010.
Hand woven African book/anything" bags. All 
sizes and colors. Only $18.95. Call Bob 682-7508 
or leave message 682-9580.
Need transportation? Drive a car anywhere in 
USA. Must be 21. References required. Call 
328-4813.
A&A Secretarial Service  Quality typing, low 
prices, pickup and delivery available. For further 
nformation call 362-TYPE.
The Dissertation Doctor is now available! Call 
(412)824-6800 for free quote. Monroeville 
Secretarial Service, located on William Penn 
Highway, has evening appointments available. 
10% discount with valid CMU ID.
Counseling Center needs private tutors in 
Economics. If interested, call x2922.
Mailing Labels with names and addresses of 
companies that hire scientists and engineers. 600 
labels for $20.00. Motto Labels with your Mot
to on them. Semper Ubi Sub Ubi. 100 labels with 
your motto $5.00. Chicago Computer Products, 
PO Box 7994, Pittsburgh, PA 15216.
Karan Kalb, B.A., M.A., (Ph.D.)  Editing, 
writing, transcription, manuscript typing, 
word processing: English  French translation, 
ESL/TESOL, French, English instruction (PA 
certified) (412)521-8383.
Rapid Report typing is now available! Uaii 
(412)824-6800 for free quote. Monroeville 
Secretarial Service, located on William Penn 
Highway, has evening appointments available. 
10% discount with valid CMU ID.
Typing on Morewood Ave  $1 per page, neat 
typing, new typewriter. Rush jobs accepted. 
Resumes composed for $6.00. Call 687-8159. 
Earn free travel and extra money as a campus 
rep!!! N.E. #1 student travel company is seeking 
reps for its Bermuda, Bahamas, Florida, and 
spring break trips. Call person-to-person collect 
to Paul at (617)449-1112 9am  5pm or 
(617)444-7863 6 - 10 pm.
Easiest cleaning is cleaning you do not have to 
do. Minute-Maid Professional Services for 4V6 
years. 682-3860.
DE A ROAD SCHOLAR RENT FROM NATIONALGet owoy and get a free T-shirt.
Getting away this weekend may be easier, more fun, and less 
expensive than you think.
Thats because National rents to 18-year-olds, and gives you 
clean, sporty cars at low prices. Absolutely no mileage charge.
And now a free Road Scholar T-shirt will help make your week
end a great getaway.
You can rent at any of the National locations below. All you 
need is a valid student ID and drivers license. Use a major credit 
card or submit a cash qualifying application 24 hours prior to 
rental. You pay for gas and return the car to the renting location.
T-shirt offer good while supplies last.
You deserve National attention.*
Non-discountable rale 
applies lo this or similar size car 
and is subject to change without notice 
Speiific cars subject In t inn lability
4621 Forbes Ave. (Oakland) 682-1444  434 Blvd. of the Allies 261-5500
VAMP
at the Junior League Shop
4707 Liberty Avenue, Bloomfield
New and almost-new clothing costume ideas for a
STEAL!!
Come in and find great costume ideas for Halloween, 
Christmas gifts, and great buys in clothing.
HOURS: Mon. thru Sat. 10 am  5 pm 
Present this ad and receive 
any purchase over $10.0025% OFF
Expires 11/14/84. CMT
y
FOUR STAR 
PIZZA
EXXX3
Fast FREE Delivery*
Sign up now for Counseling and Studeni 
Development workshops at E-Tower, M.G., 103 
or call ext. 2922. Managing Stress  Learn how 
to cope with academic and personal pressures 
4 sessions Tuesdays from 4:30  5:30, Oct.
 Nov. 20. Families in Transition  p0 
students whose parents are separated, divorced 
and/or remarried, 3 sessions, Thursdays froni 
4:30  5:30, Nov. 1  Nov. 15. Eating Disorder 
Group  For persons struggling with eating pro, 
blems such as starvation, binging, or purging,4 
sessions, Mondays, 4:30  5:30, Oct. 29  Nc, 
19.
Is it true you can buy jeeps for $44 through thj 
U.S. government? Get the facts today! Ca 
1-312-742-1142 Ext. 3401-A.
Help Wanted: delivery person. Earn up to $7,0 
per hour as a Dominos Pizza delivery person 
Apply in person, at 310 N. Craig St. 
Academic Bag Ladies  4515 Forbes 
682-6886; Thursdays 12-1 for lunch, support 
sharing; for women 25 + .
Excellent resume and cover letter constructed 
at lowest cost in area. 15% discount with CMU 
ID. Interviewing techniques and potential 
employer list provided free. Open evenings am 
weekends. Penn Avenue, Wilkinsburg. Daramol 
Corporation, 241-0222.
Reagan policy to 
fail on purpose
continued from page 24
social agenda of the religious right bodesii 
for personal liberty in this country. It 
ironic that as he seeks to free businesses frt 
restraints designed to curb destructiis 
behavior, he also seeks to undermine i| 
dividual freedoms in the areas of pray! 
reproduction, medical care, and crimiai 
justice.Furthermore, given a second term Reagi will in all probability have the opportunif to reshape the Supreme Court so asi remove that obstacle to implementation! his repressive social reforms.In contrast to Reagan, Mondale hasj long and distinguished record in support \ human rights and individual liberty. He 3 willing to act to protect and preserve thee| vironment. His compassion for the disadvai taged has found expression in importai programs such as Medicare. He advocatj alleviating hardship rather than individui freedoms. He demands government supp of civil rights rather than government indi ference to them. In short, Reagans dome record is one of malicious destructivend while Mondales is one of sincere constn tiveness. It is a stark difference.
Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student(j 
Applied History and is a columnist fori 1 Tartan.
DELIVERY PERSONNEL NEEDED |
REQUIREMENTS:
Must be at least 18 
Must have own car 
Must have own insurance 
WAGES:
$3.35/hour to start 
Plus tips
Plus commission for using own carj 
BENEFITS:
Uniforms furnished and laundered] 
Paid vacations
Pension plan for full-tifl^l 
employees
Profit sharing for full-t^l 
employees
APPLY AT: *
Apply in person after 5:00 
4740 Baum Blvd. (beside Mei^f 
Motors) in Oakland.
Call *7*2921CMU Travel Office
Campus Convenience
Skibo 40A

---------------------------------------------------

On any 2 cups oJ~DannonYogurt "Extra Smoot
Store Coupon Offer expires 12 31 85
AFRICS WOESVIDEO ROCKS!
A Musical Revolotea
Coups. HConflictAndCnrmntinn
INCREDIBLE 35mm COLOR! INCREDIBLE SAVINGS!
Here's your chance to use the film Hollywood's top filmmakers use in 
their multi-million-dollar productions. now adapted for use in your 
35mm camera by Seattle FilmWorks. And at a cost less than you're used 
to paying for film Enjoy micro-fine grain and rich color saturation. Shoot 
in bright or low light. And GET PRINTS OR SLIDES OR BOTH from the 
same roll. Don't miss your chance to
be shooting this incredible film. We can fyJaMp jsjpBI
only make you this great offer
because we're confident you'll * - r
become a regular customer Avvaail
once youve tried it. Fill out
the coupon and mail today to / 
the address indicated on other A 1  
sideLimit of 2 rolls per customer. , Mm jKodak 5247 and Kodak 5294 are registertd^^^^^^^ trademarks of Eastman KodakOffer does not include processing. Process ECN-1I. 1984 Seattle FilmWorks
off TIMES $1.75 cover price with this 
special student rate of just 45c an issue! 
(TIMES basic subscription rate is 89C an issue.)
For fast service call this toll-FREE number:
Introducing Q-tips 
Cosmetic Applicators.1-800-621-4800EDUCATIONPOLITICSMUSICHEALTH
(In Illinois call 1-800-972-8302) 
Ask for TIME offer T79166 
Or mail this order form in today!
Yes! Send me issups of TIME at the
incredibly low student rate of 45< an issue. 
(Minimum order 20, maximum order 104.)
I save 74% off the $1.75 cover price.
(TIMES basic subscription rate is 89C an issue.)
? Payment enclosed. ? Bill me later
STORECOUPON
when you buy
DEALER:Chesebrough-Pond'sInc., P.O. Box 1000,Clinton, IA52734, will reimburse you coupon value plus 8i provided you comply with these terms. Coupon is nontransferable and will be void if presented through agencies, brokers or other non-retail distributors of our merchandise unless specially authorized by us or if you fail to show adequate product purchase substantiation. Coupon is void if use is prohibited, restricted or taxed. Coupon has no cash value without simultaneous purchase. Limit one coupon per purchase.Expiration date: June 30, 1985.State2203751
Name of College or University Year studies end
The baste subscription rate good in U S only Where no term is indicated, the minimum will be served Orders for less than the minimum term are not acceptable If less than the proper amount is sent, ttie number of issues will be prorated at the per-copy rate indicated Rate good in U S only Rates include postageOffer expires Nov 15.1984
??SSI IDSlDbSCIENCEBEHAVIOR
1984 Time Inc. TCB19C
Win a Firstours Week in Waikiki!
Campus Coupons and Firstours will send a lucky winner and a friend on an exciting weeklong vacation in beautiful Hawaiiairfare, hotel, lei greeting, transfers, welcome breakfast 
and more all included. See contest rules and entry blank on reverse sideand get your free 
Whole Hawaii Catalog from Firstours!
Heres How To Order
Please weave in the following namePersonalized Camera Strap
The strong 1V2" thick webbed 
strap fastens securely, offers 
hands-free traveling and
keeps the camera 
...IjjSfr ready to take that 
great shot.
- MilWMmfiSSwm Adjustable length
Color ? Red/White/Blue C Black/White/Gold 
Send this Coupon along with 
$7.95 + $1.00 postage/handling to:
UNISTRAP P.O. BOX 417 OLD GREENWICH, CT 0
(Please Print)
Name.To order SI callSturdy clips ' hold camera securely.
Address.
+ $1.00 postage 
and handlingName Is permanently woven directly Into the strap.
City______________________________State________________Zi p___
Allow 4 to 6 weeks for delivery. Wisconsin residents add 5% sales tax
(In Illinois call 
1-800-972-8302) 
Ask for SI offer #S7920401003
This handy 
Clear eyes 
Campus 
Carry-All t 
just 4 2.99! V'
Or mail to:
SPORTS ILLUSTRATED 
541 North Fairbanks Court 
Chicago, Illinois 60611
See SPECIAL STUDENT OFFER 
on other side.
01003
Campus Carry-All OfferNO EXPIRATION DATE
Send $2.99 plus 50<t handling ($3.49 total) for each bag, 
with proof-of-purchase from any Clear eyes eye drops 
Buy as many bags as you wish. Complete details on reverse
NAME______________________________________Now carry your books, note pads, 
pencils, sneakers, sweatshirt and 
shorts in a new Campus CarryAll. Just buy any size Clear 
eyes and carry off this great 
bag for only $2.99 (plus 50<P 
for handling). And be sure to 
carry along Clear eyes to 
keep your eyes clear, white 
and looking great. p
CITY
STATE_______________________________ ZIP
Send me (_____) Carry-All bags at $3.49 each
Mail to: Clear eyes Campus Carry-All Offer 
P.O. Box 7714
Mt. Prospect, IL 60056-7714 
Offer expires March 31,1985.
CAMPUS COUPONS/WIN A WEEK IN HAWAII

---------------------------------------------------

AMPUS COUPONS=SAVINGS
Warning: These coupons are coded and serially numbered. 
Any misuse can lead to federal prosecution.
DEALER: Redeem this coupon for 
a retail customer in accordance 
with the terms of this offer. We 
will reimburse you face value 
plus 84 handling charge. Cus
tomer must pay tax where it pre
vails. The Dannon Company Inc., 
P.O. Box 1703, Clinton, Iowa 
52724. Void where prohibited, li
censed, taxed or otherwise re
stricted. Cush value l/20th of 14.
Offer exp ires 12/31185
^72 lM04b3
CM
LO
PCO
o
C\J
CD
A DAY
To order call toll-free:
1-800-621-4800
(In Illinois call 1-800-972-8302)
Ask for TIME offer #T79166
Or mail to:
TIME
541 North Fairbanks Court 
Chicago, Illinois 60611
See SPECIAL STUDENT OFFER 
on other side.
Omm
G
0
0
/A
O
Kodak MP film... Kodak's 
professional motion picture 
(MP) film now adapted for 
still use in your 35mm 
camera! See the back of 
attached coupon and 
discover what this quality 
film can do for your 
photography.
INTRODUCTORY OFFER? Ill try it. Enclosed is $2.00. Rush me two 20-exposure rolls 
of exciting Kodak MP films: 5247 (200 ASA) and 5294 
(640 ASA). Id like to experience the remarkable versatility 
of this professional quality film.
Name______________________________________
Address. 
City___
State.
Zip_
Prints and Slides from the same roll i
256Mail to: Seattle FilmWorks 
500 3rd W P.O. Box C-34056 
Seattle, WA 98124________SEETHER SsDE
Its not only the colors you chooset 
it's how you choose to apply them.
Introducing Q.-tips 
Cosmetic Applicators.
Look at what can happen with a used foam applicator (right)  muddy color!For fresh true color every time, choose the new Q-tips Cosmetic Applicator. See how the contoured design and fuzz-resistant surface make colors glide on (left). Use once, then toss away. No more mud!Try your own applicator test. Heres a 250 coupon to make it easy!
 1984 Chesebrough-Pond's Inc.
Save254
?0521 IDSlDb
Qtips
Cosmetic
Applicators
L
Win a Week 
in Waikiki!
All free from 
Campus Coupons 
and Firstours
rEnter and Win a Week In Waikiki!
Name__
Address. 
City____
. Apt #_
. State.
School _ 
Phone L
.Zip_
-Age.cto no
Order Your Personalized 
Camera Strap Today
 Strong 
Secure 
Convenient
See Reverse Side For Details
01003Save 35$I on any size Clear eyes
I TO RETAILER: As our authorized agent we will pay you 8 plus the face value of I the coupon for each coupon you properly accept in connection with the retail sale I of the product indicated Coupons will be honored when presented by retail dis- I tributors of our merchandise or associations or clearing houses, approved by us,I acting for and at the sole risk of our retailers It is FRAUD to present coupons for I redemption other than as provided herein Coupon void and forfeited if invoices I proving your purchase of sufficient stock to cover coupons are not produced on I request, or if coupon is assigned, transferred, sold or reproduced. COUPON I REIMBURSEMENTS ARE NOT TO BE DEDUCTED FROM ROSS LABORA- I TORIES INVOICES Customer pays any applicable tax. Limit one coupon per I purchase (or customer) Cash redemption value 1/20th of a cent. Mail coupons to: I ROSS LABORATORIES. P.O. Box 7800, Mt. Prospect. IL 60056-7800 This coupon I expires June 30,1985 Valid on any size.I
I 010031203752
 1984 Ross Laboratories, Columbus, Ohio 43215
Heres how to get your 
Campus Carry-All!
1. Just purchase any size Clear eyes eye drops.
2. Seattle entire front panel of the Clear eyes package (0.5 
or 1.5 02 ize) with this completed certificate
3. Enctose a check or money order for $2 99 plus 50 for 
handling, (total $3 49), for each bag payable to Clear eyes 
Campus Carry-All Offer".
4. Mail to Clear Eyes Campus Carry-All Offer
P.O. Box 7714
Mt Prospect, IL 60056-7714
Offer expires March 31,1985 and is subject to availability. 
Please aiiow 6-8 weeks for delivery
This official mail-in certificate must accompany the correct
proof-of-purchase
Facs m ie reproduction of package front or certificate will not
 I_______________________CH Check here for a free Whole Hawaii Catalog
vacation guide.
Mail to: Campus Sweepstakes, P.O. Box 551, Old Greenwich, CT 06870
Sports lUustratad
AT 7C A DAT
CATCH ALL THE COLOR & ACTION OF SPORTS.
 1984 Time Inc. 
TCB19C
] Contest Rules:
1. To enter the Campus Sweepstakes, print your name, address, college, phone and age c the entry form.2. Mail your entry to: Campus Sweepstakes, RO. Box 551, Old Greenwich, CT 06870. Only] entry per person. All entries must be received by December 1,1984.3. A winner will be selected by a random drawing and the chance of winning will be determined by the number of entries received.4. Winner of the Hawaiian vacation must be 18 years of age or older. Students entering must be enrolled full time in the college they list on the entry form.5. This Sweepstakes is not open to employees and fheir immediate families of Campus Coupons, Firstours, their agencies, advertising agency, or lithographers.6. Federal, state and local raxes are the sole responsibility of the winner. Sweepstakes void where prohibited or restricted by law. All federal, state and local regulations apply. No purchase necessary.j 7. The decision of the judges is final.
SAVE TVh
off Sis $1.95 cover price with this 
special student rate of just49C an issue!
(Sis basic subscription rate is 97C an issue.)
For fast service call this TOLL-FREE number:
1-800-621-4800
(In Illinois call 1-800-972-8302)
Ask for SI offer #S79204 
Or mail this order form in today!
Yes! Send me._issuesof SI at the
incredibly low student rate of 49C an issue. 
(Minimum order 20, maximum order 104.)
I save 74% off the $1.95 cover price
(Sis basic subscription rate is 970 an issue.)
? Payment enclosed. ? Bill me later.
Mr./Ms.
Address Apt. NoCityStateZip
0AGU PIZZA QUICK
SAUCE
turns any bread into great tasting pizza
Just spoon on bread, add cheese, and bake.
Great pizza in minutes...any time.
Name of College or University Year studies end
The basic subscription rate good in U.S. only. Where no term is indicated, the minimum will be served. Orders for lesa than the minimum term are not acceptable. If less than the proper amount is sent, the number of issues wi I w prorated at the per copy rate indicated. Rate good in U.S. only. Rates include postage. Offer expires Dec.31.198*
NO EXPIRATION DATESAVE 25
RAGU Pizza Quick,
SailCe any style
Turns any bread 
into pizza.
on
25*
??521 S12TDS
