The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 84, Number 2 April 17, 1984.
JCC welcomes public with open house
Jndergraduate catalog now available on-line
y DANIEL DURKIN
flrtan Staffwriter
The 1984-85 undergraduate catalog has 
een transferred onto a computer file, and it 
now available on all TOPS systems. The 
rogram can be run by typing take [srOl]
atalog.
Identical to the printed version, the comuter catalog will be the first totally comuterized text on the CMU campus, 
lording to William Elliott, Vice-President 
>r Enrollment.
Karen Marron was responsible for creat
ing the file, which was started in September, 
and she explained that the catalog was usa
ble by students in December. Student reac
tion to the catalog has not been established 
because few students know that it is 
available.
The program provides an address to 
which comments should be forwarded, and 
Elliott expressed his hope that students will 
use the program and make comments. 
Since the program is organized into five
separate parts, each formatted into specific 
nodes, it is not difficult to learn how' to use 
it. On-line help is available, and Marron 
believes that learning to use the system is a 
matter of looking at the commands. 
Elliott offered several reasons why the 
undergraduate catalog w as transferred to the 
computer. First, he feels that having infor
mation on line will make things easier for 
students looking up important facts. 
Second, CMU in general is moving away 
from written material and more towards on
line information. Finally, since the catalog 
no longer has to be printed for each student, 
the computer catalog will save money, 
stated Elliott.
Hunt goes 
to 24 hours
By DANIEL DURKIN
Tartan Staffwriter
Hunt Library will be open 24 hours for 
the final two weeks of the semester.
Between April 29 and May 11, all four 
floors will be open 8:00 a.m. till 2:00 a.m., as 
previously. The first and second floors will 
be available 2:00 a.m.8:00 a.m., but books 
cannot be checked out until 8:00. Students 
will be required to show CMU ID upon 
entering.
John Pane, Student Senate Chairman, 
pushed for the extended hours several weeks 
ago via an approved Senate resolution. He 
said the primary reason he wanted a change 
was requests from students who wanted a 
quiet place to study during finals.
y yDA NIINEL
1TW Staffwriter
Amid the flurry of Spring Carnival 
tivities Friday afternoon, the University 
omputing Center (UCC) conducted an 
^en house for students to celebrate the 
jildings long-awaited grand opening. 
Tom Bajzek, interim director of the Com
utation Center, stated, That the building 
actually open to the people on campus is a 
gnificant thing. . .were accessible again, 
id I think we have a nice facility.The UCC is the new home for several apartments. It houses the Computation enter, Administrative Systems, the Infor- ladon Technology Center (ITC), and the enter for Design of Educational Comput- ig (CDEC).In addition, a public personal computing 
>Q room and a spacious, comfortable atrium re located on the first floor.The high-security ITC, which uses most [ the second floor, showcased its work iward developing the personal computer orkstation of the future. Included in its >ace are offices, a machine room, and even s own library of software and documenta- on. The ITC shares the second floor with
CDEC, found in the southeast wing.
The first floor is occupied mainly by offi
ces of the Computation Center and Admi
nistrative Systems. Administrative Systems 
is responsible for computing activities of 
administration, including student systems, 
financial systems, office systems, and data 
entry. Its services are used by the Registrar, 
Financial Aid, the Cashier, nd Planning.
The basement has been open for some 
time, and recently the output pickup was 
moved there from Wean Hall. The machine 
room has operated in its central basement 
location since last August, and was joined 
some time ago by the computer store and PC 
support group.
At this point, the multi-million dollar 
building is virtually complete with the 
exception of the sub-basement and outside 
landscaping. Some of the existing space 
problems in Wean Hall have been cleared 
up, and everyone seems to be more relaxed.
Bajzek said, I hope that the students and 
the faculty who come here to use the facility 
understand that it is a good facility, and help 
us to keep it that way. Its quite different 
than Wean Hall was, and I hope we can go 
on keeping it looking this nice.
J- v#ivv..uuii
*sh from their breakdancing performance in the tent, the Kingsley Robonic Tic-Toccers officially opened Spring Carnival with 
^bon-cuujjjg ceremony.
In this issue
News
H&SS computing slashed.................page 2
Student Senate minutes......................page 3
Features
Graduation approaches......................page 5
Entertainment
Guys and Dolls faultless...................pag 7
Sports
Rugby undefeated - almost...............page 9
Track takes dual meet........................page 9
Editorial
Computing cuts unnecessary-----page 12
photo by Peter Rosenfeld 
Students visit the UCCs new public PC room during Fridays open house.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanApril 17, 1984

Less EMACS and ScribeH&SS students caught by "deleted" accounts
By KAREN CERRONI
Tartan Staffnrritrr
Many H&SS students have been caught by 
surprise this spring, after their computer 
accounts were revoked.
Due to the rising costs of using the main
frame, each department was ordered to cut 
back on expenditures. In an attempt to 
speed up student use of personal computers, 
existing course accounts were reduced or 
eliminated. The English Department pro
vides a typical example of the resulting 
problems.
A modification of the English Depart
ments computer accounts began at the 
beginning of March. Several problems 
stemmed from this modification. Initially, 
panic and confusion occurred. Many stu
dents returned from Spring. Break to find 
that they could not access their files.
Nichole Vecchi, a junior in Technical 
Writing, commented, Its not that Im 
opposed to the cutback, and I realize that 
computer time is costly. What upsets me is 
the way in which the situation was man
aged. In Vecchis case, the decision made it
difficult for her to complete a portfolio 
(using Emacs and Scribe) that had been 
assigned at the beginning of the semester.
Another problem arises due to the limited 
number of personal computers available to 
English students. Not only are some stu
dents faced with dealing with closed course 
accounts, but even if they want to use the 
PCs they cannot find an open one. How
ever, Dr. Gary Waller, head of English, 
assured that as soon as they receive the addi
tional units, another cluster of personal 
computers will be made availableeven if it 
means the staff doubling up in offices to 
create space for a new terminal room.
Yet many students can not help but feel 
the department is placing more value on the 
cost of computing time than on their educa
tion: Bill Garrison, a junior Technical Wri
ter, remarked, I think it stinks. I don t feel 
that a few people should find the English 
Departments accounts expendable, and 
decide this is where the sacrifice can be 
made. No wonder H&SS students have been 
alienated from computers. Decisions are
made without the concern of the student; 
and no help is offered.
Waller insisted the educational goals o{| 
the university remained paramount! 
throughout the decision.
We agreed it was for the education 
benefit of the students to make the switch to 
the personal computers. Sooner or later 
they will have to make the transition. As; 
result of the modification, more student 
than ever are utilizing PCs.
Waller suggested that any student having 
a legitimate educational need and finding 
himself in a bind should go to the English 
Department. Emergency accounts hay. 
been established for exceptional situations.
Waller felt he received positive responsi 
and cooperation from the students. Garril 
son remarked, Its not that I disagree wit) 
the need of the PCIve already star 
using them, but I disagree with how 
problem was handled.
Vecchi noted, Its just not a worry] 
should have to deal with at this point in t 
semester.
WRCT 100 watts for Carnival
photo by Dave Loren
WRCT Chief Engineer Bdale Garbee works on WRCTs new 100 watt transmitter.
By NEIL J. GREENBLUM
Tartan News Editor
WRCT, Camegie-Mellons student-run 
radio station, is now enjoying a power 
increase from 10 to 100 watts.
The increase was cause for a ceremony 
involving Associate Dean of Student Affairs 
Lois Cox which was held in conjunction 
with the opening of the Midway on Thurs
day afternoon.
There were lots and lots of delays, said 
Bdale Garbee, WRCT Chief Engineer and 
General Manager-elect, including some
technical delays held up the ceremony ovi 
30 minutes.
The entire increase process took ova 
eight months, much longer than Garb 
expected. WRCT was originally supp 
to become a 100 watt station last Septeml:
According to Mark Iskowitz, Music Din 
tor, WRCT can now be heard clearly as f 
west as Pittsburgh International 
and as far east as Westmoreland County. |
For more on this landmark event, see tk 
followup in next weeks issue.
J-v #iv.uvmnt. eu.numsou.-v fvhnoiv dviuv.
presents
Clement Greeiiberg,
Art Critic
Conti
Issues in 
emporary Art
J-oi.a$3 Apiul 183 1984 
4:30 pm 
W-viivnn Room3 dkubo

---------------------------------------------------

April 17, 1984The TartanPage 3
Election outcomes and other Student Senate happenings
minutes of the student senate
3 A#RIf 1984 /
J-v mvvnums wa. hallv no oivi an 7:00 p.m. 
#REdENJ: Bvnn3 Biomo3 Co-vm3 Coilv..3 evBioff3 
eovi3 eoibum3 Eiuhk.om3 Fvh-nvi3 Funzsvial3 Gol.nvum3 
Ibia-um3 #amv3 #anola3 Roh-vi3 dh-munn3 dvaiums3 
d-ums3 Ja$loi3 Volam3 Wvavvi3 Wvllvi3 evam Walnvi3 
evam Cox3 MhCoimuhk3 GdO.
ABdENJ: fuvamo.3 Moiia$3 dollai (vx)3 Oisaum (vx)3 
UFO, SDC.
AUeIENCE #ARJICI#AJION: fvx Kavoolaku. (vxh-aui of n-v dnovmn dvmanv): Emoi.vmvmn. foi C-aui
mam of n-v hommunnvv.3 C-aui of dvmanv: Jo-m #amv3 
Fumamhv: Fiam Funzsvial3 Ahavmuh Affaui.: Cm$ Ja$
loi3 Rolv.: Eiuh Roh-vi3 GC8hI: fu.a Biomo3 Al.o eu.-
The following is a statement from Senior 
Vice President for Academic Affairs J. Pat 
Crecine concerning H&SS computing allocatons for 1983-1984.
A number of individuals have questioned 
Resources Allocation Board (RAB) actions 
related to H&SS computing allocations for 
this fiscal year.
At the second quarterly review (January) 
of the 1983-84 budget and expenditure expe
rience, it was projected that H&SS would 
overspend their computing allocation by 
roughly $167,000 under current usage 
patterns.
The RAB took actions which  without 
disturbing usage patterns in H&SS  
reduced the projected year-end deficit for 
which H&SS was responsible to about
$45,000.
The College had and has several options 
for dealing with the $45,000 deficit problem. 
The options the College Chooses to exercise 
in dealing with their compuung usage 
problem is not an issue either the RAB or I 
think we need to be involved in. We view it 
as an issue for the Dean and Department 
Heads of H&SS to deal with  we feel the 
central administration has, already, done 
what it could do to alleviate an undesirable 
situation.
ho..v n-v on-vi po..ubulunuv. foi n-v po.unuom.. faoia 
dabavll (vx-C-aui of Fumamhv): Emoi.vmvmn.3 C-aui: 
Jo-m #amv3 Fumamhv: Fiam Funzsvial3 Vuhv-C-aui: Jovl 
Fvh-nvi. Bvhk$ dukoia (vx-vuhv-h-aui of dnovmn dvmanv): 
Emoi.vmvmn.3 C-aui: Jo-m #amv3 Rolv.: Eiuh Roh-vi3 
Ahavmuh Affaui.: Cum$ Ja$loi3 GC&I: fu.a Biomo. 
C-iu. eommv (vx-dvmanoi): Emoi.vmvmn.3 fu.a Biomo 
foi GC&I C-aui.
EfECJIONd:
1. CHAIR OF dENAJE
A. Nomumanuom.
1. Jo-m #amv - Ahhvpn
B. Monuom no ahhvpn b$ ahhlamanuom: vote: 
passed.
C. Nvw C-aui of dvmanv: Jo-m #amv
2. VICE-CHAIR OF dENAJE
A. Nomumaoom.
1. Jovl Fvh-nvi - Ahhvpn
2. Hulai$ evBioff - Ahhvpn
B. Monuom no hlo.v momumaoom.  passed
C. Camuanv. .pokv
e. Vote: Nvw Vuhv-C-aui of dvmanv: Hulai$ 
evbioff
3. FINANCE CHAIR
A. Nomumanuom.
1. Fiam Funzsvial - Ahhvpn
B. Monuom no ahhvpn b$ ahhlamanuom: Vote: 
passed.
C. Nvw C-aui of Fumamhv Communnvv: Fiam 
Funzsvial
4. ACAeEMIC AFFAIRd
A. Nomumanuom.
1. Cum$ Ja$loi
B. Moom no ahhvpn b$ ahhlamaoom: Vote: 
passed.
C. Nvw C-aui of Ahavmuh Affaui.: Cum$ 
Ja$loi
5. RUfEd
A. Nomumanuom.
1. Eiuh Roh-vi - Ahhvpn
B. Monuom no ahhvpn b$ ahhlamaoom: Vote: 
passed.
C. Nvw C-aui of Rolv.: Eiuv Roh-vi
6. GC&I
A. Nomumanuom.
1. fu.a Biomo - Ahhvpn
2. Muh-avl Bvnn - Ahhvpn
B. Camuanv. dpokv
C. Vote: Nvw GC&I h-aui: fu.a Biomo 
Ofe BUdINEdd: Homoi Awai.: fvx Kavoolaku. foi 
nvim. a. C-aui of dvmanv3 faoia dabavll foi nvim. a. 
C-aui of Fumamhv Communnvv.
eEAN WAfJER: No Rvpoin.
eEAN COX: No Rvpoin.
#REdIeENJ: Gvmvial Commvmn.: Wull mon ni$ no bua. 
dvmanv foi Givvk.. Wull ni$ no ivohv .vmanv apan-$3 wull 
-avv hommvmn. wvvkl$ am bv hamu wun- dvmanv.
Panhel discusses recent changes
ceremony for all pledges and a junior Pan
hel executive board. Teahan hopes an 
induction ceremony will reinforce Panhel 
unity.
Social chairperson Julie Taylor dis
cussed plans for Panhel formal, and menti
oned that an IFC formal is also being 
worked on. Panhel happy hours were also 
mentioned.
Monica Smith, Secretary, plans to update 
the bylaws.
Treasurer Chris Hayes wants to eliminate 
the liason that presently exists between the 
Panhel treasurer and the university.
President Julie Grant talked about the 
National Panhel-In terfratemity Council 
(IFC), recently held in Philadelphia, and the
By LESLIE HOTHERSALL
Special to The Tartan
Panhel, CMUs council of womens fra
ternities and sororities, met in the Wherrett 
Room April 2 to introduce officers and to 
discuss goals.
Helen Testa, rush chairperson revealed 
prospective changes in next falls Panhel 
rush. Incoming freshmen girls will be 
allowed to register for rush during the 
summer. Rush will begin on September 2 
with a social event in the Margaret Morrison 
courtyard. Bid day will be September 15. 
Testa stressed rush will be an all-Greek 
even this fall.
Cindy Teahan, pledge chairperson, 
talked about plans for a Panhel induction
NEW BUdINEdd: Rv.olonuom: no suvv n-v C-aui n-v
 powvi no ivhosmuzv n-v aouvmhv oiums n-v hooi.v of 
n-v mvvnums foi aunuomal hommvmn.3 vote: passed. eu.-3 
ho..uom om n-v soal. of dvmanv3 monuom no nablv omnul 
mvxn wvvk: #AddEe.
GENERAf eIdCUddION: Nvw dvmanoi. .pokv aboon 
n-v #vnnumv.. am u.asivvmvmn. of a fvw dvmanoi.. eu.
ho..v n-v po..ubulun$ of mvvnums. wun- dvmanoi. am 
n-vui hom.nunovmhuv.. Commvmn: n-viv .-ool bv a .usm 
om n-v ooi of n-v dvmanv offuhv no lvn .novmn. kmow n-an 
un u. n-v offuhv3 GC&I wull look umno un. 
ANNOUNCEMENJd: C-aui wamn. no mvvn wun- hom
munnvv h-aui foi h-oo.ums hommunnvv..
J-v mvvnums wa. ajooimv an 8:10 p.m.
GdO: No ivpoin.
CHAIR: J-amk. wa. suvvm foi vlvhnums -um h-aui of 
dvmanv. A foim foi $ooi h-ouhv. of offuhv -ooi. am 
hommunnvv. aiv bvums pa..v aioom3 plva.v noim n-vm 
um no n-v C-aui bvfoiv n-v vm of n-v mvvnums. Appoumn
mvmn: fvx Kavoolaku. a. pailuamvmnaiuam. fubiai$: In 
wull bv opvm 24 -ooi. .nainums Apiul 303 1984 omnul n-v 
vm of fumal.3 n-u. wull bv poblu.-v um n-v Jainam. 
VICE-CHAIR: A.kv foi n-v dvmanoi. no svn aloms wunvah- on-vi.
ACAeEMIC AFFAIRd: Jvah-vi lvnnvi.: iv.pom.v. no 
n-v dvmanv a. a fomhnuomums bo$. Faholn$ Cooi.v Eva
loanuom.: bvums hollanv
FINANCE: Emvisvmh$ allohanuom.: 1) WRCJ: $800 foi 
hablv. am hommvhnoi. foi haimuval3 n-v$ moimall$ o.v 
ABt. vqoupmvmn bon AM wull bv o.ums un n-u. $vai3 vote: 
allocated. 2) Fiumsv: $1797 foi Boss$' am Boon- .opp
luv.3 iuvi.: hammon boul a mvw boss$ omnul 3 $vai. lanvi3 
n-v nool. -avv a 5 $vai iuvi am hammon bv boos-n asaum 
omnul n-v iuvi -a. vxpuiv3 vote: allocated. 3) AB Jvh-: 
$1400 foi .alaiuv.3 w-vm pivpaiv bosvn vxpvhnv n-v 
woikvi. no bv om woik-.no$ bon n-v vxpviuvmhv pvoplv 
wvivmtn am n-v$ -avv vxhvvv n-v hoiivmn allohanuom3 
vote: allocated. Fiam n-amkv dvmanv foi iv-vlvhnums -um 
no Fumamhv h-aui.
future of Panhel. She stressed that all five 
sororities should support each other, espe
cially during rush.
Panhel and IFC are in the process of rede
signing the annual Greek mailing, formerly 
called Meet the Greeks, that is sent to all 
incoming freshmen. A new slogan is 
needed, as well as designs and ideas for struc
ture and layout. These can be submitted to 
Julie Grant (x5959).
Off Campo. Hoo.ums
Advisory/Referral Service Now being provided out of the Housing Office in Morewood Gardens. Lisa Protas, Off Campus Housing Coordinator
Students interested in discussing their housing 
needs or their desire to move off campus are 
invited to speak with Lisa Protas at their 
convenience. Up-to-date and accurate infor
mation and listings are available upon 
request. Other advice and support service is 
offered to students having apartments who 
need roommates and to students who wish to 
share space in other apartments.
INVEdJMENJAWARENEdd
CONEERENCE. 
A#RIf 19 
^ 7:00 pm
WHERRETTROOM
ic/nuaonQ:
Caiol Mahp-aul betoite Haskins and SellsJax Avamnasv.
 also included;J-oma. eo$ CquitaU* Onsunanct
Im.oiamhvKan-$ Kolb 7homp&o.n tTlcKinnon S*cunititiFumums A Biokvi 
Jom Mavm 3d*atd Dnwsto1is Fbinuoluo Mamasvmvmn
um
eavu Go.num CITIU Qnv&tm*nt ^QnoupImvv.nmvmn Mvmnalun$
refttsfyneqtS ! admission fie
funded by student Activities

---------------------------------------------------

G50presents
Cruise
aboard the
<Jfa
'Friday3 April20 ? 930jm -1 am/
Jmturina
3ilhjFrice 6)
Custom TZjujtlitn 'Band
r tickets $ 5 eack 
Jromjrad. student rep. or skibo injv desks
price indudcs twojree drinks * cash bar onboard 
504extrajvr trcuisjportxitijorijroyn CMU to StntioyiScjmre 
jrndd bj araduate student activities fee
jvr more injorynativyv - calLjomni at 576-3201

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Moore wants graduating seniors aware of events
By NEAL W. JOHNSTON
Tartan Features Editor
With only several weeks left of school before finals, the general populace here at 
CMU seems to be saying I cant wait to get 
0Ut  I need more time  I need a job. Graduating seniors especially view the last 
thought with urgency since commencement s only around the comer.
Monday, May 14 at 10:00 a.m. will be the 
time for caps, gowns, and diplomas in the 
tent. And Mary Ann Moore, manager of 
Special Projects for Public Relations, wants 
those seniors involved to be aware of all 
thats happening. I realize that some 
seniors are asking Whats going on? What 
should I do? Weve already received several 
phone calls about it, states Moore.
This year she says that the tent is larger than ever before. That way we can fit in it as much as possible; we can encorporateour activities for the weekend for students and their families.Kicking off the weekend of activities will by a zero year reunion on Friday, May 11. This will be the Alumni Offices gift to those graduating as an introduction to becoming an alumnist. Later that evening, AB will hold a dance for the graduating class.
On Saturday, an informal dinner buffet 
will be held in the tent from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. 
Each graduate will receive their tickets for 
this event in his/her graduate packet. They 
will be free of charge according to Moore. 
President Cyert didnt want parents to be 
charged for this meal so he asked if those 
tickets could be included. Additional 
tickets may be purchased at the information 
desk for $8.00 before 1 p.m. that afternoon.
Sundays activities will begin with open 
house and tours of the new University Com
puting Center from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. From 1 
p.m. to 4 p.m., President Cyert will hold a 
reception in honor of the graduates and 
their parents. The location is on the lawn in 
front of the Fine Arts building. Because of 
the space constraints, Moore says, were ask
ing seniors and their families to attend the 
reception according to our schedule, if possi
ble. Thats 1 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. for CFA and 
MCS and 2:30 p.m. to 4 p.m. for H&SS andvii.
Following at 4:15 p.m. in the tent will be 
Steve Jobs, Chairman of the Board of Apple 
Computer, Inc. and VP and General Man
ager of the Macintosh Division. He will 
deliver a talk to the graduates and their par
ents. No tickets are required.
Commencement procession will begin at
10 a.m. Monday morning followed by the 
individual diploma ceremonies at noon. 
Caps and gowns should be picked up in the 
bookstore the previous Wednesday through 
Friday. -
This year we thought wed do some
thing special for the honor students  iden
tify them with some type of braid for their 
gown. They worked hard for four years and 
should be recognized, Moore concluded.
This years honorary degree recipients 
will be Joseph F. Engelberger, Janet Nor
wood, and Claude E. Shannon. Engelberger 
is the current consultant to the Energy and 
Advanced Technology Group of Westinghouse and was the first President of Unimatiori (a part of that Westinghouse group). 
He will receive a doctorate of engineering.
photo by Bob Fishel
Mary Ann Moore, Special Projects Director for PR, is in charge of commencement
Norwood is the Commisioner for the 
bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department 
of Labor, and will be awarded a doctorate of
laws. Receiving the doctorate of science will 
be Shannon, a retired professor of electrical 
engineering from MIT.
Annuai fashion show held at Convention Center by Spirit
One of the volunteer models for Spirits fasion show struts her stuff.
photo by Mike Kelly
By VICTOR JAMES
Tartan Staffwriter
This past Saturday marked the fourth 
consecutive CMU fashion show. An esti
mated 150 people arrived at the David Law
rence Convention Center to watch 
Camegie-Mellon students model fashions 
by Charels Spiegel, Brookes, Casual Comer 
and the Jeanery.
CMU fashion shows have been produced 
by Spirit from the start. In the past, shows 
have been put on sporadically. However, 
during the last four years, Spirit has man
aged to stage shows annually. This has been 
due to Spirits Student Administrative team 
specifically created to coordinate fashion 
exhibitions.
A crew of eight students are in charge of 
organizing model try-outs, rehearsals, fit
ting dates, clothes to be modeled and the 
shows program.
This years crew came up with a new idea; 
they incorporated student-performed enter
tainment into the shows scheme. They 
selected two comedians, five soloists and one 
dramatist to help move the show into var
ious scenes. All volunteered their time.
The models for the show were selected last 
January'. Their work was also volunteer. 
Though the show is sponsored by Spirit, 
anyone is welcome to try-out for a modeling 
position. This year, there were 11 female and 
5 male models.
photo by Mike Kelly
A new trend for Spirit: annual fashion shows.Imvv.nmvmn homfvivmhv no 'piomonv omvi.namums"
bv yURKy undeKA
I to the Tartan
So youve landed a job. Congratulations. 
rut have you given much thought to manI a^ng your future income? What type of 
I lnv('stment objectives do you have? What 
L^ut insurance? Should you open an IRA? 
I first annual Investment Awareness 
nference will address these issues. 
Investment products have been changing 
Ll a rapid pace. It has been a confusing time 
0r consumer. The objec tives of the Conrence will be to promote an understanding 
the present state of the financial industry. 
1V( speakers from the Pittsburgh commun
ity will address topics of concern to students. 
Subjects include:
 Investment planning
 Finding a broker
 Tax advantages
 Portfolio management
 Insurance
It is so important to be financially aware 
in todays society. The conference provides 
an excellent opportunity for students to 
learn about money management. It will be 
held on Thursday, April 19 at 7:00 p.m. It is 
opened to the campus community at no 
charge. The conference is co-sponsored by 
the CMU-Investment Group and SARC.
Commencement around comer for seniors

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanApril 17, 1984
"Supercomputer"
16 microprocessors linked together to do basic physics calculations quickly
Physics researchers at Camegie-Mellon 
University have linked 16 microprocessors 
into a computing machine that does basic 
physics calculations in far less time and at a 
greater speed than conventional computers 
of comparable cost.
The researchers are using their home
made supercomputer to verify predictions' 
of the quantum field theory and to deter
mine one of the basic constants of nature: 
the fine-structure constant, according to 
Dr. Michael J. Levine, professor of physics.
Levine noted that physicists have long 
been constrained in doing these large-scale 
calculations by the computing time needed 
and the cost of computing.
Both cost and time have been prohibi
tive, he said. Its almost impossible to get a 
long-range commitment at reasonable pri
ces of a large-scale computer for the blocks 
of computing time needed to do these 
calculations.
Levines 16 microprocessors work 
together as a supercomputer by concen
trating their combined power solely on 
large-scale calculations. They operate by 
breaking down the large-scale problems 
into smaller ones, sharing the load of analy
sis and calculation.
Levine explained that the computing 
machine nins at twice the speed of a VAX (a 
main-frame computer). The cost of the 
machine, which has been operational for 
about seven months, has been $8,000, about 
1/100th of the cost of a main-frame compu
ter, such as those in CMUs central comput
ing facility.
This is a highly economical way to do 
this kind of work, Levine said. One of our 
microprocessor boards pays for itself in three 
weeks. Were trying to build a machine that 
will be the equivalent of 50 VAXes.
Working with Levine on the project is Dr 
Tadashi Kikuchi, research engineer in com
puter science. Their work is supported by 
the Intel Corporation of Santa Clara, Cali
fornia and by the U.S. Department of Ener
gys Division of High-Energy Physics.
Viewing your work through base editor - colored glasses
By W. J. HANSEN
Special to the Tartan
One of lifes special frustrations is losing 
your house key. You usually dont find out 
until it is time for supper and you are 
already too hungry to cope rationally. Using 
a new computer system can have a similar 
frustration: you know the system has almost
boundless power, if only you had the keys to 
open it.
The frustration is compounded on oldstyle systems when each program you run 
opens to a different key. The design of the 
user interface for the ITCs workstation soft
ware is intended to solve this problem; many 
applications will interface to you through
 UOUJARD __JowmonS
FOR MEEJINGd3 
CONFERENCEd & 
dEMINARd
Howard Johnsons Motor Lodge 
in Oakland 
"Weve Changed" 
SEEING IS BELIEVING!
STOP IN AND VISIT OR CALL 
WED LOVE TO SHOW YOU AROUND
683-6100
Write for a free brochure, attention sales office 
3401 Blvd. of Allies, Pittsburgh, PA 15213
eu $oo vvvi hom.uvi .vivums a. a
piuv.n?
...a life style of 
commitment and 
self fulfillment?
Call:
Father Rudolph Silvers
Vocations Office
412/456-3070 
or write:
Catholic Diocese of Pittsburgh
111 Boulevard of the Allies. Pittsburgh. PA 15222
tfioMna^ioaphic*
417 S Crag St 682-6697 Mory-Fn 830-6 Sot10-23517 forties Ave 683 1188 Mon-fr 90G-53S Sa* 'j-2Quality offset printing in a Flash
the agency of be, a base editor, whose keys 
are designed for ease of learning and use.
Before describing the interaction of be and 
application, let me describe how I used oldstyle, pre-be systems for three tasks: system 
commands, HELP, and file reorganization:
 In old-style systems, the only way to make 
corrections as you enter system commands is 
to use backspace. If you have hit RETURN, 
you probably have to retype the enure line. 
Moreover, you can only see previous work as 
far back as the top of the screen.
 The HELP command often just displays
the contents of a file on the screen. If the file 
is bigger than the screen, you have to start 
over to go back to any previous portion of 
the file.
 If youre like me, you reorganize your files 
occasionally  go through them, delete 
some, and move others. To do this with 
old-style systems, I had to list the names of 
files and give them some Delete or Remove 
commands. After a few such, however, the 
file names moved off the top of the screen 
and I had to start over again.
Nowadays, I am using a prototype of the 
continued on page 13
Quadriplegic Kim Cochran with son, Craig. 
"Each day as I watch Craig 
grow, I grow myself, in 
strength and confidence."
Thanks for Giving
Unibed Wy
HOfY JHURdeAY
A#RIf 19
6:30 #M Hvumz C-apvl
The Mass of the Lords Supper  
Private Adoration until 10:00 pm.
4117 SCr7ag 
A#RIf 20
2:30 #M Hvumz C-apvl
Chapel open at 12:00 Noon followed by
the Liturgy of the Passion and Death of the foi.
12:00 Noom CMU (dkubo 39)
Stations of the Cross
HOfY dAJUReAY
A#RIf 21
9:30 #M Hvumz C-apvl
The Easter Vigil followed by 
the Mass of the Resurrection
Romam Can-oluh 
C-aplaumh$
J-v Oratory
4040 Bigelow Blvd. 
Pgh., PA 15213 
PHONE: 681-3181
EAdJER dUNeAY
A#RIf 22 
12:00 Noom Hvumz C-apvl 
10:30 AM Givss Hall
Mass of the Resurrection
Father Bryan Summers, C.O.3 Pastor 
Father Robert English. C.O.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
Guys and Dolls faultless in every detail
B$ MARK fEVINE
7flina Entertainment Editor
you just gotta see this one. The Drama 
departments last mainstage production, 
Guys and Dolls, is absolutely incredible. 
The Swerling/Burrows/Loesser musical 
lived up to its subtitle A Musi
cal Fable of Broadway. Not 
only was the show about Broad
way but itll probably be the 
losest thing to a Broadway musical anyone 
ere will ever see  unless they go to Broad- ay. The main credit for this must of course 
to Billy Wilson, the director and choreopher. Wilson has an impressive list of 
ts to his name, including major Broad- ay shows like Eubie and Bubbling Brown 
ugar, experience that showed in the 
taging.
There is never one uninteresting oment, never one unbalanced stage. Even 
vith the chaos going on in scenes like the avana brawl or the crapshooters dance,
you always know exactly where to look. And 
if you let your eyes browse a little, youll be 
amazed at just how organized the crowds 
really are.
Even before the show opens you know 
youre in for two hours of pure enjoyment. 
David Cranks set captures the grimy, glitzy, 
cartoon Broadway world that Guys and 
Dolls has to be set in to work. And large 
structures containing offices, streets and 
sewer systems glide on and off smoothly, 
seemingly effortlessly.
The opening choreography continues the 
mood with a great combination of Broad
way Jazz and Keystone Kop, letting us know 
were in for an evening of the fast-paced 
large-chorus dance numbers that comprise 
the best parts of the show.
The singing was professional, and with
out the help of the voice majors that are 
sometimes brought in. These are (almost all 
of them, I believe) drama majors, carefully 
making sure that the songs are as fun to
watch as they are to listen to.
The acting, a facet in some musicals given 
up for good singers or good dancers, was 
paid its due here and the cast performs with 
fine comic precision. James Nardinis 
Nathan Detroit and Sandra Bargemans 
Miss Adelaide were true Runyonland 
natives. Nardini deftly and hilariously tread 
the thin line between lovable cad and loving 
fiancee (in a 14 year engagement). And San
dra Bargeman squeaked up her voice to play 
Adelaidess comedy to the hilt. But when 
you were asked to feel sorry for the character, 
you did feel sorry.
The other romantic pair, Burke Moses as 
Sky Masterson and Ann Kittredge as Sarah 
Brown were performed equally well, but on 
a much different level. They were almost 
real people up there, so real they seemed 
almost unreal against the backdrop of the 
craziness that comprised the other elements 
of the show. But they had to carry the more 
serious dialogue, the slow love ballads. And
eason's final opera captivates audience
y SUSAN PETRIE
artan Managing Editor
The beaudful Rosina wasnt the only one 
nned by the impassioned serenades and 
rsistent attendons of her suitor, Count 
(dmaziza, played by Rockwell Blake in last 
weekends Pittsburgh Opera 
production of Rossinis The 
Barber of Seville.
Also captivated by the lightearted opera buff a, Heinz Halls full house 
ill in love with the stage magic of the 
leading characters and the highiirited, delightful Rossini melodies.
The opera, first performed in Rome in 
J16, remains a truly entertaining universal 
assic, and the Pittsburgh Opera cast 
iideniably kept up the traditional appeal. 
MU graduate Mimi Lemer as the wealthy, 
imarried Spanish lady, Rosina, carried 
it her role with vivacity, professionalism, 
id a unique blend of gracefulness and 
>mic playfulness. Her mezzo-soprano was 
companied by the romantic smoothness 
Rockwell Blakes tenor, a voice wellited for the roles of lovesick young nobles, 
logether, their performance was energetic 
bd convincing.
jNew to the Pittsburgh stage, baritone 
filliam Workman obviously enjoyed his 
prtrayal of the barber/matchmaker, 
aro. The devious antics of the infamous 
acter were successfully combined with 
orkmans controlled developed style. 
Providing comic appeal in addition to 
jusical talent were Spiro Malas as the old 
}d selfish Dr. Bartolo and Claude Corbeil 
Rosinas starchy, foolish music 
ptructor, Don Basilio. Their theatrics and 
*1 dynamics amused the crowd and won 
stant approval for the bass and bassjritone, respectively.
I The rest of the cast, as well as the 
hestra, aided in making the Pittsburgh
Camegie-Mellon alumna Mimi Lemer played Rosini in
photo by Gretchen Brush 
The Barber of Seville.
Operas last production of the season a 
memorable one. Well-chosen and welldirected, the presentation of The Barber of 
Seville has proven General Director Tito 
Capobiancos competence and welcomed
they did carry them. An especially hard job 
when you consider that at some point in the 
musical each has to make the 180switch 
from fun person to Salvation Army 
Worker or vice versa. They did it and still 
kept that tinge of extra reality that gives their 
romance the oomph it needs.
All the performers deserve careful atten
tion. Watch Marcus Lovett and James 
Shanta romp loose-leggedly through the 
title song, and with Robert Woronoff, 
deliver Fugue for Tinhorns (I got the horse 
right here) joyously. Lovett, as NicelyNicely Johnson, also gave a rousing rendi
tion of Sit Down, Youre Rocking the 
Boat. Even though at times he was 
drowned out, so to speak, by the chorus, the 
song drew so much applause that it went 
into an encore.
Watch Tom Ryan (Arvide), even when 
hes just banging the bass drum, perform 
silently the perfect combination of age, sim
plicity and duty. In fact some of the best 
acting jobs go on silently. The way Paul 
Schoefflers Big Julie stands. Or the way 
Phil Baker slouches through his part as the 
waiter and wheels through the part of the 
drunk. Smaller technical perfections come 
through in the stomp of Natalie Carter, or 
the way Stanley Chipper Albers carries on 
his chair during the Havana scene. Tiny 
moments, almost unnoticeble as they flit by 
in the constantly shifting crowd scenes, 
make this musical a joy to watch.
There was not one facet, lights, orchestra 
or costuming that didnt contribute mas
sively to the tightness of the production. 
You really have to see it to understand. Id 
have to reprint the entire program to give 
credit to everyone who contributed to the 
success. So I can only reiterate  you gotta 
see this one.
AB Dance says 
Come to bed
MS'MM
place in Pittsburgh.
The forty-sixth Pittsburgh Opera season 
will open with Verdis La Battaglia di 
Legnano this coming fall, September 20 and 22.
By MARK LEVINE
Tartan Entertainment Editor
AB Dances next dance is an encore. The 
Come to Bed Party was so successful the 
last two times its been held, theyre doing it 
again this Saturday, April 21,9 p.m. - 2 a.m.
The band for the dance will be The Insti
gators and there will also be a DJ.
Participants are invited to dress in bed
room attire. Other various bedtime things 
will be going on, such as:
Kinky cartoons in the Wherrett 
Room
Breakfast served all night in the 
Highlander
Pictures taken in AB Dances enticing 
bedroom
And of course, you can bring a friend to 
bed, too.
ied Piper to appear at CMU and announce peace concert
|fhe beloved musical figure, The Pied 
will appear in various Pittsburgh 
toons in April to musically announce IN 
NCERT FOR PEACE. This benefit
concert takes place Tuesday, May 1 at 8:00 
p.m. in Heinz Hall and features Andre 
Previn, pianist Andre Watts, and members 
of the orchestra.
The Pied Piper for Peace, a student of the 
renowned musician Bernard Goldberg, will 
stroll through various public places pla> mg 
his flute to announce the concert and its
rama's New Play Festival dates corrected
rUga tcRKAc
Entertainment Editor
- Whoops. The article on the Drama 
| Partments Fourth Annual New Play Fes'Was written to appear in this issue, but 
Printed last issue, making all the yess and next Tuesday s incorrect. 
t0 avoid confustion, here are the dates
and times: Comedy in Exile opens today 
at 4:30 and Wriggle starts tonight at 8 
p.m.
On Friday, April 20 Irelands Shakes
peare shows at 4:30, and Wriggle at 8 
p.m. On Saturday, April 21, Pops plays at
2 p.m. and Comedy in Exile at 4 p.m.
AH. shows are in the Studio theater, and
the admission is free. Each show is com
pletely student run; written by playwriting 
majors, directed by directing majors, acted 
by acting majors, etc. Theyre always inter
esting fare, and this year should be no excep
tion.
My apologies to all inconvenienced by the 
error.
message of Peace. The Pied Piper is sche
duled to make appearances on the following 
dates and places:
Tuesday, April 17 - 11:00 a.m. - Point Park 
College
Friday, April 20 - noon - Court Yard, 
Allegheny County Courthouse 
Saturday, April 21 - 2:00 p.m. - Parkway 
Center Mall
Tuesday, April 24 - noon - Camegie-Mellon 
University, Skibo
Thursday, April 26 - noon - PPG Place
For ticket information, call Heinz Hall 
Box Office, 392-4900.

---------------------------------------------------

Finies.
by Mark LevineJOE FRESHMAN
WOW.1 TH is fi Mil V NEAT. 
You cAw see THt WKW.e . 
ctftfv!.... Tue COT... J C
f(N* ARTS ... Tue /__
RAIW'CIOUIS...
Jo,VWrw,lJk THi*. 
&eT us ouT of Htte I 
RffflM JHId JHIW& $ 
 lUS of With /' 
wred? >-<V
 RMN 
CLOUDS
by John MalleyCAPT. KROIM KITE AND REX
THE ASSAULTSSStafw Ae FOR A COfJ <?7 uAdER 
^ I p/.JOf3 Ein3 Rvx7 mvvvi
Give A REPUCWr AFI&HT7NGCHANCE , x SAY... 
TERMIH/AL HEAD AND 
KitGoR AveGA i AREAPEX SVSrtCTED.
0EE# AJivNJlOW #EE# 
KRON Kite 15 ON THE LOOSE 
EfIMINAJE OM SI&HT....
 RE#EAJloEhs aKecmmmmmmm Ulp
I C'-*'r!'^y > \ \
CAPTAIN KRoN /CITE 
WHE RTO RWMT
TO STOP THE GfiAND 
TAMPERJN6- THAT 
EM/A/ATES FROM 
WARNER HALL...
r ACCORDING TD  
MY MINICOMP, 
THEYRE REPi-IC/wrS, L CAPTAIN.......
KITE AW> REX RACE 
UPSTAIRS AS FAST AS 
TET CAN, TO A ONE 
L/T ROOM WfTH A 
LOCKED POOR. - Bor 
THE CAPTAIN CAN 
HANDLE ANY.L0CK EVER 
MADE . ...OH, THAT 5 OOD. TOST G/ve ME A MOMENT. . .
A SW&LE SHOT STRAYS OUT THE WIWOW 
TO STRIKE THE l/CC. TRANSMITTER.,,"TERMINAL HEAP 
. QUICKLY PRE 
A SMALL RED 
 BUTTON ON HIS 
DESK SERKE KWN
UCAR PW vRPArr
Fool Featu the rrFsrau.E nrrimTHAa 
SULSolU 77* EHATWNS OF YWfc N0NT UNIVERSE ! 
IN Less THAN 2*/ MlWTES EVW ROOM, NOOK AWD 
CMOCR MU A OoMTVTEfi /N /rf HA HA Uh!
UH, TEAM, Mirf
rYOU HEARTLESS FIENDSJ TWET WERE > SCXEPOlEP 70 SWCSFULLY AVTbMATf.AilP SOCIALLY AMVr OVER TWENTY fcUgd i,Dv New ? gur ecA 
I MINUTES TJ WlTWWT PRBfER plANA*#, 
OR<AN)ZA7*W, 6RAPMAL t*nA*pven*t, , 
V. 7WERE k'Ot/LX 55 - y
flEVER. M/NC, REX 
\A)E'Vt &0T TB DEACTIVATE 
THff MEfrA-NfiTRiX 
M/flWtA70R BEFORE IT S 
TOO LATE if?
PAAPCWF US A 
SMOKE SCREEN r 
Ii&HT&7N- -xTSY.MHdddWuu*'- (frOOD? NOW, AFT 
THE TWO ! THEY 
WONT RE SY/-D ro PHA^e ow# 
A while LCADx! JRANdIENJd Ml1* 
/eP/ KS&to&X
n our! epcebV HM RUM <g<* \ FOOT !? )
CMTAiH  THAT DIP IT. 
ACCORWN& TO MY MWICOMP,
1 THE TAMPERING- CEAS6P1 ^
V. V. {the CONTROLS MUtTBtlH 
VShE SOMfWHEAE T OPHE at 
~VJ' I EVERT TM/Nfr f
PSYCHOLOGY EXPERIMENT
t68 $8.75GRAND OPENINC
Make your memories alive with
***** SUPER PHOTO*****
1824 Murray Ave.
Pgh., Pa. 15217
iS -6 421-1444
_W* ^The One hour processing
C through April 29, 1984
from April 23
We need subjects for an experiment on 
MEMORY RETRIEVAL of well-learned 
information. 
The tasks involve making spelling decisions about 
common words.
The experiment consists of I SESSION, Vh 
HOURS LONG
for more information and scheduling 
call x28l5 or come to BH 331 A.

---------------------------------------------------

________________________Sports.
Lackadaisical" performance takes dual meet
By DUANE GALBI the 880 and the mile. In the mile Shaffer
Tartan Staffumter coasted home to win in 4:27 with a comforCoach Gary Meckley was disturbed by table five second lead; however in the 880 he
what he say as a lackadaisical effort by the had to outfight some spirited challenges by
CMU track team, but the performance fellow teammates Mark Sulecki and Frankproved to be more than sufficient as the 
Tartan track team demolished Bethany and 
Washington and Jefferson in last Wednes(jays double dual meet.
Although the distance men usually 
receive most of the accolades for the Tartans 
success, this meet was won in the often over
looked field events. Under Coach Rich 
Lackner, the Tartans put on a fine show
ing. Jeff Crain, Mike Boyle, Lloyd Troy,
Jim Rogers, and Joe Honse all cashed in 
first place finishes. Crain captured first in 
the shot with a heave of 44 feet 7 inches 
while freshman Boyle had to settle for 
.vhom in that event. In the discus, though,
Boyle made his presence felt as he outdistanced second place teammate Crain by 
nearly eight feet to capture the event for the 
Tartans.
The track men under sprint coach Ter- pack and distance coach Dario Donatelli, although purposely weakened by the absence of some of the top seniors, once again continue their domineering ways.
Sprinters Todd Perri and freshman hurdler 
Gary Marchionna got a chance to show 
their first place style in the 110 and 4401.H.I respectively as reigning PAC Champoin Bob Krouse sat out the meet.In the distance events senior Chris Shaffer become the only two event winner of the meet as he turned in two fine early season
I performances to capture first place in both Joe Honse vaults for first place.
Matousek who finished a close second and improving his time nearly fifteen seconds
third with identical 2:05 clockings behind from his performance at Slippery Rock at
Shaffers 2:02. 15:24. After commanding the race for the
In the 3 mile, distance man John McGo- first two-and-three-quarter miles, he was out
wan suffered a discouraging loss, although kicked on the final lap.
puuiu U V X LILI IVU3CI11C1U
Almost undefeatedRugby fights until end in tough game loss to Steel City
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Contributing Editor 
It was almost like a dream come true  the 
I CMU mens rugby team, in its fifth season, 
I was undefeated and coming off strong victoI ties against American University and Beaver 
I Valley. Then they ran into Steel City.
However, CMU didnt give up until the 
end, and a strong and close last minute drive 
almost tied the score and saved the day But 
the CMU Eggmen didnt have a chance 
against the clock, which ran out of time 
when CMU was within one yard of the goal.
The final score was Steel City 12, CMU 8.
Fans braved the cold, wet weather to 
watch CMU and rival Steel City lock heads 
in a heated match on the CMU IM field last 
Sunday. When the mud had dried and the 
players had stumbled home tired and hoarse 
from the infamous rugby cheers, Steel City 
emerged victourious, beating the Eggmen
three tries to two. Scott Nesbitt and Denny 
Myers scored for CMU.
Nesbitts try came after a long drive by the 
CMU scrum and a penalty on Steel City on 
the three-yard line.
CMUs second try came after the scrum 
pushed the ball near the goal line. Myers 
then scored.
It was a back and forth battle throughout 
the game as Steel City and CMU scored 
alternately. CMU captain Scott Patterson 
and Hooker Rob Sanderson made espe
cially strong showings, managing to get the 
ball out of tough spots.
In past weeks action, CMU shut out 
Beaver Valley 28-0 and defeated American 
University 7-3.
Chris Dunne, Timbo Kirsch and Myers 
put in eight points apiece, and Chris Tschapat added four points to the pile, as the 
Eggmen ran all over Beaver Valley.
Last week, CMU journeyed to Washing
ton D. C. to play against American Univer
sity. Rob Pipik scored one try, and Dunne 
booted a penalty kick for CMU.
The tally now stands at 3-1-1 for the CMU 
Eggmen.
Last week, the CMU Womens rugby 
team made their debut against Dickinson 
College in Carlisle, PA. After much miscommunication and delay, the game was 
started and Dickinson, in its fourth year, 
emerged victorious, 28-4. CMUs one try was 
made on a long run by fullback Pam Mott. 
Members of the CMU mens team showed 
strong support as they drove from D. C. to 
cheer the newborn womens team on.
The mens team will travel to Morgan
town, CM on Saturday, April 28 to play 
U-rAO RADIN GITr R U-r IrIID IGIADYU CMHE 
-r PGGTrD -Iir /rU U wrRIU U-r CMH 
NrIODS ,- -rIU *-rT IU U-r ZNNrG-rD/

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanApril 17, 1984
CMU tennis squeaks by 
West Liberty State, 5-4
The CMU mens tennis team travelled to 
West Liberty State for their season opener, 
prevailing 5-4 in a close contest.
Greg Valley, Bhaskar Thapa, and Ed 
Martin won singles matches, while the team 
of seniors Valley and Tom McDevitt con
vincingly won in doubles. Martin and Mike 
Oort clinched the match for the Tartans 
with a 7-5, 6-3 doubles victory.
The team then packed their bags and 
headed North for a match against West
minster college. With stormy skies looming 
above, the indoor match ended in disap
pointment for the team as they suffered a 6-3 
loss.
Saturday, April 7th saw the team facing 
their first conference opponents, Thiel col
lege, in what turned out to be a 9-0 shutout 
for the upstart Tartans. Captain Steve Maybeck, returning for his third year, showed off 
the expertise gained from lots of experience, 
as he defeated his rival 6-2, 6-1.
Super freshman Jim Denburg, last years 
New Jersey state high school doubles
champ, used his talent to overcome his 
opponent 6-1, 6-2. Undefeated, Valley skill
fully served and volleyed his way to a 6-1,6-3 
victory. McDevitt, who won the PAC confer
ence championship for sixth position sin
gles two years ago, combined his powerful 
serve with precise volleys to trounce his 
opponent 6-0, 6-0.
Thapa, an outstanding Junior year Roo
kie to the team, proved too tough for his 
challenge and a 6-0,6-2 victory gets added to 
his record.
was
vicMartin, returning for his second year of 
play, looks a little rusty this year but 
able to drown his opponents hopes for 
tory, winning 6-3, 6-4.
The teams of Maybeck-Denburg, ValleyMcDevitt, and Martin-Oort scored easy vic
tories in the doubles. The outstanding 
doubles play of freshman Oort deserves spe
cial mention since it helped provide the Tar
tans with the second 6-0, 6-0 victory of the 
match.
photo by Mike Pilewski
See supplement pages 7 and 8 for buggy results.
/OHNS.PIZZA
4523 Cvmniv an Ciaus
621-6755
Hours: Mon.  Thurs. 5:00 p.m.  1:00 a.m.
Fri. & Sat. 5:00 p.m.  2:00 a.m.Sunday 5:00 p.m.  12 midnight
FREE Delivery
Round Thin CrustRound Thick CrustAll Hoagies Toasted HotCALZONES
EXTRASLarge 
12 Cuts
Med. 
8 Cuts
Small 
4 Cuts
Med. Pan 
8 Cuts
Small Pan 
4 CutsHOAGIESWHOLE1/2IEXTRASMed.Small
PLAIN4.713.632.214.532.91HOT SAUSAGE3.961.98REjG.4.713.63
1 Topping5.914.532.915.433.61ITALIAN3.961.9815.914.53
2 Toppings7.115.433.616.334.31VEGETARIAN3.961.9827.115.43
3 Toppings8.316.334.317.235.01PIZZA SUB3.581.7938.316.33
4 Tappings9.517.235.018.135.71STEAK3.961.9849.517.23
Everything10.718.135.719.036.41MEAT BALL3.961.98PLUS TAX
IM report
By Sean Quinn 
Tartan Staffivriter
It certainly has been a long time; so weve 
got a lot of catching up to do. Most impor 
tantly, this Saturday, the 21st is the I.M, 
TRACK MEET. Be there! You can enter the 
meet right there, on the track Saturday 
morning at 11:30, when the first gun goes 
off.
As for other major I.M. news, the final 
1983-84 board meeting is this Thursday, the 
19th, at noon. It is in the NEW intramural 
office, room 102, Gym. Thats it for this 
week, fans.
EXTRAS: Pepperoni, Sausage, Mushrooms, Onions, Green peppers, Hot peppers, Anchovies, X cheese
DELIVERY RESTRICTED 
IN CERTAIN AREAS 
DOUGH MADE FRESH 
DAILY ON THE 
PREMISES.
NO PREBAKE SHELLS 
USED WE CUSTOM 
MAKE EVERY PIZZA & 
HOAG IE TO YOUR 
LIKING
NO MINIMUM 
OReER 
REQUIREe
FOR FREE DELIVERY
CALZONES 
REGULAR (4 - extras) 
COMES WITH 
HAM, SALAMI, 
PEPPERONI,CHEESE 
& SAUCE 
OR
YOU CAN CREATE 
YOUR OWN
LARGE
PIZZA 
$2.PRICE IS FOR PLAIN PIZZA. ALL TOPPINGS ARE EX- I TRA. ONE COUPON PER ORDER. NOT VALID WITH
r    "ANY$ C2.P 2ZanP
$325
| ^0 PLUS TAX I
^oooo
ANY OTHER OFFER.
ON DELIVERY ONLY. MUST ACKNOWLEDGE WHIN KAC  
I NO ORDER (OFFER EXPIRES
I ONE COUPON PER ORDER. NOT VALID WITH ANY | OTHER OFFER.
| POOP ON DELIVERY. MUST ACKNOWLEDGE WHEN PLACING ' 
ORDER (OFFER EXPIRES )-//
Ve Jv.nums
Affordable 8c Confidential 
EVENING Hour Services 
(formerly the Pgh. Free Clinic) 
call 661-5424
ZNDr o pOrGDIDUf 
trrw 2rNgf
f/M Pregnancy Testing 
For a conMantial friend ca
UFEUNE
Downtown Pgh 562-0543
Beaver County 843-0606
Mon Vaftey 489-9020
Buffer County 282-1200
center
abortion 
menstrual extraction
free pregnancy testing 
vd and contraceptive care
all services confidential
121 s. highland ave. 
Pittsburgh 
363-1107

---------------------------------------------------

uy your

---------------------------------------------------

Eunoiual.________________________
H&SS cuts should not have been necessai
Several weeks ago, CMU proved that explained that H&SS had racked up a huge in the first place, Dean Kiesler of H&SS nevd
humanities students are second-class citizens deficit. After trying to ease the burden by cut- would have had to cut. Some students in (j
on this campus. ting a $167,000 problem down to $45,000, Aca- and MCS wind up every semester with a surf
Things were beginning to look up. H&SS demic Affairs told H&SS to take care of the rest plus of $200 or $300 in computer account
received the largest budgetary increase of any any way-they chose. H&SS decided that Eng- Most H&SS students dont start the semes&j
college this year, and President Cyert was lish and history didnt need to use computer with $200. And its no wonder, consider^
beginning to mention CMUs writing pro- time; except some courses in those depart- how much less H&SS and CFA are allocau
grams along with computing and engineer- ments require that all work be done on the than CIT and MCS.
ing. Then, out Of the blue all computer computer. Warner Hall made a good start in impr0
accounts in both English and history classes So who is to blame? Both Warner Hall and ing that situadon this year, increasing
were sharply cut and in some cases endrely H&SS. Obviously, if H&SS had cut some H&SS budget almost 60%. But 60% of pitiful]
deleted. money from every department, cuts would not still pidful. Hopefully, Warner Hall wi
In a memo to the campus community, Vice have been nearly as drasuc. remember that when it comes dme to reevalj
President of Academic Affairs Pat Crecine However, if H&SS had an adequate budget ate this years budget.
Government base metal coinage a ripoffj
By Dan Tobias of gold and silver, but it was necessary to Thus, in 1934, President Roosevelt the increasing rate of inflation caused by i
Take a quarter out of your pocket. Look weigh these at each transaction to determine ordered all U.S. citizens to turn in their gold governments deficit spending finally foro 
carefully at its edge. If it is like the vast their value. Thus somebody in ancient times to the government in exchange for non- them to replace these coins by the base mei 
majority of quarters in circulation at pres- hit upon the idea to stamp out coins of a redeemable paper money. This tyrannical they presently are. But to keep the pub 
ent, it should have a reddish stripe through regular size and weight, which could circu- act marked the end of the concept of money from complaining too loudly, they
the middle. This is a sign of one late interchangeably. These coins some- as being something of value by itself; from sure to keep the designs of the coins exao 
of the biggest ripoffs the govern- times had a picture of a king or emperor to then on it was simply fiat money issued by the same as when they were still silver; 
ment has perpetrated on the show that the government guaranteed their the government. The government, however, of the general public never even noticedtl 
American people. From the value, but their value was still derived from still continued to play some lip service to a change. So, after over a century of sne 
1700s all the way up until 1964, dimes, their metallic content, rather than govern- gold standard until the 1970s, when Pres- gradual change, our monetary system]
quarters, half-dollars, and silver dollars were mental fiat. ident Nixon finally completely abolished shifted from a secure bimetallic standardl
all composed of 90 percent pure silver. And But carrying a large amount of metal the last traces of a dependence on gold. At complete fiat money. The persistent in 
up until 1934 there were also U.S. gold coins around was still inconvenient, so somebody this point, the government finally consi- tion of the last few decades is a direct resii
in circulation at face values ranging from $1 else got the idea of issuing paper money, dered it safe to allow citizens to own gold; it Ill discuss some alternatives to thepri
to $50. In fact, the dollar was explicitly This originally consisted of warehouse was finally legalized in 1975. system in my next column,
defined as particular weights of gold and receipts, certifying that a specified amount Meanwhile, silver stuck around in coins Dan Tobias is a sophomore in applied)
silver. However, the coins in circulation at of precious metal was stored someplace, and for a few decades longer. But finally, in 1965, and is a columnist for The Tartan,
present are made up entirely of virtually could be retrieved by presenting the receipt  Ha |  | ^
worthless base metals. The extent of the to the warehouse keeper. Thus, as long as I 1^1 Irjjtfjjl I
debasement done by the government can be the proper amount of gold or silver actually 
seen by the fact that a pre-1965 silver quarter existed in the warehouse, these bills could By Felicia Pratto willing to support this aggression withtj
is now worth approximately $1.80, while circulate as if they were equivalent to coins. What began as a depressing week for funds that make it possible, recent devel
the metal in a present-day quarter is worth The original issues of paper money were international relations is ending with a ray ments may have begun to change 
less than 10 cents. In order to explain how done by private companies. Thus, if they of hope for U.S. foreign policy. Last week, minds.
this situation came about, it is necessary to were dishonest and issued more bills than in an unprecedented action, the U.S. Days after the World Court annou
do some exploration into the nature of there was gold to back them up, they were ^ announced it would not defend ment, it was revealed that the CIA su
money. likely to go out of business when people .fr itself in the World Court against vised the mining from a U.S. vessel.
Contrary to popular belief, the concept of came and demanded their gold in exchange ^ charges by the Nicaraguan Reagan supporters, such as Sen. Barry(
money was not invented by the government, for the bills. But soon the government saw government that U.S. military water, were outraged that the Admimst
It came about quite naturally as a result of what a good racket this was, and started actions against Nicaragua are illegal. The tion failed to inform them of the extei
the actions of a free market. Initially people issuing paper money of its own. At first this U.S. also announced it would ignore Court U.S. involvement. Given long ]
had to trade goods directly for other goods was limited by the amount of gold and silver judgments of U.S. action in Central Amer- knowledge of the mining (a Soviet
they wanted; this was rather cumbersome, in the treasury, but as the pressure for ica for the next two year's. The ire this raised hit one in March) and their vote for fu
and a need arose for some intermediate com- increased deficit spending grew, they started in Congress is about two years -late. funding, Congress cannot pretend to be^
modity that could be held until you wanted issuing more paper money than they could In 1982, Reagan received $19 million for prised by the type of U.S. military viola
to trade it for what you really wanted. Many possibly redeem. Like usual, the govern- the contra-revolutionaries who are attack- in Nicaragua. Over a year ago, some(
things were tried, including tobacco, catde, ment saw the use of force as the logical ing Nicaragua from bases across the border gressmen raised the issue that such op!
and beads, but gold and silver proved the solution. If there was not enough gold to in Honduras. Last year, he got $50 million tions are acts of war and thus illegal fori
most popular due to their durability, pay the people who were demanding jt in despite initial disapproval in the House. President unless Congress declares waf|
beauty, and scarcity. Thus, people started exchange for their paper money, the thing Just last week, the Senate approved an addi- ^______________________continued on 1
using these metals as units of exchange. to do was to forbid the public from owning tional $21 million to begin in May'when
At first, they simply used lumps and bars gold. current funding will run out. I
_ ^ - The money has been spent on military The Greek view equipment, U.S. strategists, and wages for Editor in Chief................................................................
a _ J i> I n-v homnia.. U.d. wunmv..v. ivpoin n-an n-v Mamasums Eunoi.............................do.am J
m M  E KM* Jf talicontras have attacked villages and blocked Bo.umv.. Mamasvi.............................K3101
roads in Nicaragua. In its World Court suit, Nvw. Eunoi...........................Neil J Gn
By Bob Fishel do: Nicaragua contends the contras have killed Features Editor   ...................Neal
I thank The Tartan, We are constructing a suggestion box, 1300 Nicaraguans, caused millions in dam- Entertainment Editor.............. her D1
they saved my skin. But until its real age and have disrupted trade by mine dam- ^OIts ^^Mike I*1
I wrote a lcng article The IFC mailbox in Skibo age to at least 6 merchant ships. #ioohnkm Mamasvi..................... \lai121
They couldnt fit in, Is the place to write us how you feel. The U.S. proudly reports it has mined T Managt>r Patti0
with a sixteen page paper I also have office hours three Nicaraguan harbors and roads leading Comniubonums Eunoi.......................Piiuli^
' And pictures on eight. Three nights a week, to Honduras. Though Congress has been r Paulis
Since Im no professional 12-2 on Sundays, Tuesdays and Thursdays, * Tl I * A..n. #io.............................................^iVliL
writer, Youll find me at my peak. 'JjyVYVlO'Kl MTA..n Ent Eunoi............................
My story will have to wait. But if you cant walk to Theta Xi Editorials appear at the beginning of the opinion AssL SP08  ............................
But in the meantime, 683-2505 is the number to try. section, and are the official opinion of The Tar- Bo.umv.. Mamasvi.............   .
Dont just sit inside. One more message tan Editorial Board. #ioohnuom dnaff: Bob Aarhus, <
eo .omv .viuoo. n-umkums Bvfoiv I so. Colomm. are the opinions of individual authors Fu.-vl3 fv.luv Fiamk3 Amivw o ' ^
Because the Imerftatemity Council Come see our new calendar  V The Taron sta hut >ht Cialamas. Leslie Hothersall. T*f
Wants to know whats on your mind. Looted inside Skibo. ap.mom a,e not neceami, thos, of The Tarun Maura Savm. Carolyn Sperang.
We are getting together, Its simple, its clear, its easy to read, Eunoi are opinions 0/ individual Copyright  1984 by The Tartan TV ^.
We are moving forward. Youll find it directly across from the infor- authors who are usually members of the Univer- reserves fK nght 10 wlthh( I,,,n LoriaK... copy it deems unlit for publication, w1 ,We want your input mauon desk. sity community. A letter intended for publication Skjbo ^ 4J2 57g_2111 Business Off**
From Si obeli to Morewood. (Shoot, that last line didnt rhyme.) must be signed and include the writers address (412, 578.2112. 24 hour phone, (412)578-21*^
Student or teacher. Bob Fishel is lnterfratemity Council Presi- and phone number for verification. Names will ftmv 17 Srh**^y Park, Pittsburgh
Administrator, too, dent and is one of several contributors to the be withheld upon request. Fhe I artan reserves Funded by the Activities Fee.
It you have any comments Heres what to weekly Greek View. ^ n&ht to condense or reject any letter. -------------------------All right reseT]^l

---------------------------------------------------

April 17, 1984The Tartan-Page 13etters:d not offensive to Jews
lUl.
found Mr. Rosenblums letter of April 
moie offensive to Jews than your 
jnietown cartoon.
r Rosenblum must be the epitome of 
,ete and/or stupidity if he thinks Jackonly did a bad thing by using such 
-ge. Unfortunately when Jackson 
jews Hymies and New York 
etown, it was simply a continuance 
s contempt for the Jews and his antitism. The Natrat merely restated in a 
orous fashion what Jackson had presly said.
rhaps you should look at the people 
rung Jackson, such as Louis Farrakthe leader of the Black Nation of Islam, 
t Milton Coleman, the Washington
Post reporter who reported on Jacksons 
Hymie statements, Farrakhan said, One 
day soon we will punish you with death! 
This is a fitting punishment for such dogs. 
He also threatened Jacksons critics and 
especially Jews by saying If you [Jews] 
harm this brother, I warn you in the name of 
Allah this will be the last one you will 
harm. The frightening thing is that Jack
son refused to condemn these statements his 
Moslem chum made. I will not even delve 
into Jacksons political contribudons from 
Arab countries.
Perhaps before you cast your ballot for 
Mr. Jackson, you should take a good look at 
the people behind the man.
#vnvi Ro.vmfvl 
#-$.uh. 87
TO show not anti-Semitic
s letter is in response to the comments 
e in the Greek Sing article about the 
Tau Omega fraternity. In the article 
ters stated that the performance by 
rothers was pretty tasteless and at one 
t anti-Semitic. Well, the fact of the matthat the second act which portrayed a 
p of hasidic Jewish men abusing a 
man for his earnings was conceived, 
and choreographed by one of the 
sh members of the house. Also, many of 
ther Jewish members of the brother, including myself, participated in the 
Ives. Being of the Jewish faith, if we 
d have thought that performance was 
Semitic, we would obviously not particin it or let the rest of the brothers 
rm it. The fact that we dresed up the 
s line in such an obvious manner was 
to provide a more realistic effect, the 
way the Catholic brothers in the first 
ere dressed as monks.
either case, the ATO philosophy when 
es to Greek Sing is to go up on stage 
"ve a good time while getting some
laughs along the way. Anybody who was at 
the show that Friday obviously saw that we 
had a good time performing our show and 
also heard from the laughter that the crowd 
had a good time watching it. Thus, our 
mission was accomplished.
Jvffiv$ Bvismam
Pratto: Nicaraguan actions condemned
continued from page 12
Nicaragua. The legality issue was skirted by 
calling these activities a covert wai.
However, the question of whether the 
U.S. is at war in Central America has been 
raised again. Mining harbors is such direct 
involvement and so close to a blockade, that 
many Democrats and Republicans feel the 
mining is either an act of war or very close to 
it.
Some of this concern is expressed in the 
Senates first real opposition to Reagan and 
the CIAs war in Nicaragua: an 84-12 non
binding resolution requesting that no U.S. 
funds be spent to lay mines in Nicaraguan 
waters and that the U.S. submit its Central 
American policies to World Court jurisdic-ckson posters torn down
March 30, 1984, duly authorized 
uncements of the Students for Jesse 
|0n meeting were posted in SUPA and
 By April 1, each of the announcei had been maliciously defaced, muti|and destroyed. It is indeed a sad day1984, no less  when the basic 
cental freedoms of American citizens 
and restricted. While a call for a
full investigation of this horrendous episode 
would be a needless diversion from the cen
tral issues confronting the voters of Pennsyl
vania, these despicable event are called to the 
attention of the general student body and 
University Community in hopes of curtail
ing any further growth of overt and racist 
actions on this campus.
d-vula Ai.
tion (Bob Woodward and Fred Hiatt, The 
Washington Post).
Unfortunately, the resolution is not likely 
to have any effect on the war since, as Rea
gan put it, If its not binding, I can live 
with it. And though Reagan has denied it, 
several top Adminstration officials earlier 
acknowledged that U.S. aggression there 
would escalate if Reagan wins re-election.
However, at least some members of Con
gress may take more action to limit CIA 
aggression in Nicaragua. The House may 
defeat the $21 million in aid. This would 
force the CIA to use its slush funds to 
continue activities.
The Congress may also pass a binding 
resolution against mining and other activi
ties. Peter Rodina of the House Judiciary 
Committee, and Jesse Jackson have separ
ately asked the U.S. Attorney General to 
appoint a special prosecutor to discover if
Reagan has committed an impeachable 
act or crimes by masterminding this covert 
war. However, since Congress is in recess 
until after Easter, the White House hopes we 
will all forget about it so that Congress has 
no pressure from the public to end the covert 
war.
So remember, be good citizens. Forget 
that your president has been running an 
illegal war for two years. Believe Reagans 
denials that he has no plans to send U.S. 
troops to a Central American war. Forget 
that the income tax you just paid has blown 
up several sailors. If you run into our Con
gressman on Easter break, talk about the 
lovely weather. Do not, under any circum
stances, mention your daymare that Nicara
guan children hunting for Easter eggs may 
find U.S. land mines instead.
Felcia Pratto is a graduate of CMU in 
psychology and is a columnist for The 
Tartan.Virtue manages many projects
continued from page 6
ITC Virtue system. I manage each of these 
three tasks through the agency of be. I give 
system commands in one window, view 
help in another, and reorganize files in a 
third. Yet all three windows are controlled 
by a single editor the provides commands 
for moving around the image, inserting 
and deleting pieces, and other editing 
operations.
By pointing at entries in the file list, I can 
delete or rename files and still have the list. I 
can also point-at an entry and ask to see its 
contents; I never have to give a command to 
ask to edit a file.
When I ask for help or give a system 
commands the base editor lets me move 
through the help file or commands as easiv 
as I can move through any document. 
Indeed, I use exactly the same commands. 
When I see an example in a help document, 
I can cut it out and give it as a command to 
the system. When I want to give a command 
again, I can copy it from the recorded history 
of system commands and even make 
changes before doing it again.
Even if the base editor were not providing 
tremendous advantages to users of applica
tions that go through it, it still is a great 
advance over earlier editors. Essentially it 
provides the most common Scribe(TM) for
matting features dynamically. I can look at 
my text and see it italics, bold face, indented, 
centered, enlarged . . . When displaying a 
paragraph, the lines are automatically 
adjusted so each is flush at both left and 
right.
Let us turn to another application of the 
base editor: mail. When I van! to send a 
message to, say, Loche Sm h @ CMU, I 
call Send, which displays a window with a 
blank header and space for the me ssage text. 
I either type the address or copy it over from 
somewhere in another window. I can either 
type the text or copy parts of it from another 
window. To emphasize sections, I can even 
make them bold: Please hurry over with 
keys.
When I want to read my mail or bulletin 
boards, I call on Scan. It displays one win
dow with the headers of messages and 
another with the text of one of those mes
sages. By pointing with the mouse I can 
select any header and that message will be 
displayed.
As the system evolves, numerous other 
applications will utilize the be interface. 
This will make it easier to write these appli
cations because they need not write their 
own interaction routines. More important, 
each user will know immediately the keys to 
open that application.

---------------------------------------------------

Computer Scientists and Electrical Engineers
(Ma.nvit. oi #-.e. lvvvl)
J-v Moisam dnamlv$ Componvi dhuvmhv. #iosiam u. .vaih-ums 
foi assiv..uvv3 vmnivpivmvoiual hamuanv. wun- .opviuoi 
ahavmuh ivhoi. no joum ooi MId evpainmvmn.
J-v evpainmvmn
J-v Componvi dhuvmhv. #iosiam wa. v.usmv no anniahn nop homponvi .huvmhv am vlvhniuhal 
vmsumvviums siaoanv. umno ooi nvh-molos$ sioop. wun-um MId3 am3 b$ .o oums3 vxpo.v ooi.vlvv. no 
mvw nvh-molosuhal uva.. J-v MId evpainmvmn u. hoiivmnl$ umplvmvmnums oi umvv.nusanums mvw 
nvh-molosuv. um:
 eu.niubonv Nvnwoikums Aih-unvhnoiv.
 Avamhv eanaba.v Jvh-molosuv.
 Fooin- Gvmvianuom famsoasv.
 Faoln Jolviamn d$.nvm.
 Ainufuhual Imnvllusvmhv am Expvin d$.nvm.
 Vouhv Rvhosmunuom
 dumolanuom Movlums
#iojvhn mvmbvi. pla$ a kv$ iolv um vvu.ums .nianvsuv. no vxploun n-v.v am on-vi nvh-molosuv. an Moisam 
dnamlv$3 am no a..u.n ooi vvmnoiv hapunal am umvv.nmvmn iv.vaih- sioop. um vvaloanums -usnvh-molos$ hompamuv..
J-v Jvh-muhal Emvuiommvmn
Ooi homponvi mvnwoik hom.u.n. of fooi 3081-hla.. mah-umv.3 2 dJRAJUd homnumooo. piohv..ums .$.nvm.3 
100+ muhio-homponvi. am 1000+ nvimumal.3 piovuums .vivuhv no o.vi. woilwuv.
J-v Fuim
Moisam dnamlv$3 a piuvanvl$ -vl hoipoianuom3 u. omv of Wall dnivvnt. lvaums umvv.nmvmn bamk.. Ooi 
piumhupal bo.umv..v. umhlov mamasums omviwiiunums. of mvw .vhoiunuv.3 offviums fumamhual am 
umvv.nmvmn avuhv3 am niaums .vhoiunuv. foi hluvmn am fuim ahhoomn.. Fuim mamasvmvmn -a. 
v.usmanv vxhvllvmhv um umfoimanuom nvh-molos$ a. a majoi .nianvsuh umunuanuvv mvhv..ai$ no maumnaum ooi 
lvavi.-up um n-v fumamhual hommomun$.
dvlvhnv hamuanv. wull bv umvunv a. ooi sov.n. no Nvw Yoik Cun$ um Apiul foi a 
piv.vmnanuom am a .viuv. of umnvivuvw. b$ n-v MId evpainmvmn. Wv ivqouiv a iv.omv 
am a hovvi lvnnvi w-uh- piovuv am oisamuzv piv.vmnanuom of $ooi qoalufuhanuom.3 
ah-uvvvmvmn.3 am haivvi umnviv.n.. Omv of ooi .vlvhnuom hiunviua u. n-v qoalun$ of n-v 
piv.vmnanuom mav um n-v hovvi lvnnvi. dvm hoiiv.pomvmhv no:
dCOJJ G. ABBEY3 #-.e.
Vuhv #iv.uvmnMORGAN STANLEY & CO.
Incorporated
1633 Bioawa$3 Box 100 
Nvw Yoik3 Nvw Yoik 10019
Morgan Stanley is an Equal Opportunity Employer.

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
assifeds
mvi doblvn - dq. Hull oplvx3 fom.3 soo 
$138/mo. + onul. 422-2191 oi WvH 7213.
j Api. 1 d-a$.uv omfom. apn. 2 fui.3 1 bi. 
erences, lva.v3 $325 + onulunuv.. damv3 avaul. 
1.n fui. 621-0812 a$; 767-9942 vvv.
nuf$ Yooi oisamuzanuom wun- a ho.nom piumnv 
in oi jvi.v$. Wv .ulk-.hivvm piumn .-uin. foi 
hampo. hommomun$. Call n-v J-d-uin Comv an 578-3535 am .pvak no Jo-m foi vnaul..
Fumsvi. Woi #iohv..ums. Bo.umv../ahac papvi.3 iv.omv.3 hovvi lvnnvi.3 vnh. Eunums 
luded. Eiuka Vam duhkvl 731-8978.
lomnvvi. mvvv no painuhupanv um .ohual 
jh-. $4.00/-ooi. Call 578-3702 Wv.. 4/18 
10:00-Noom foi appoumnmvmn. EOE.
s/woi piohv..ums. J-v.v.3 nvim papvi.3 
uscripts, iv.omv.3 lvnnvi.3 vnh. (A#A3 MfA3 
Joiabuam mamoal. .niomsl$ followv). dpvuzv um la.n-mumonv woik. Call ooi 24--ooi .vi371-3657.
onufol Hoo.v! dommvi .oblvn wun- po..ubulufoi fall. J-ivv bvioom.3 poih-3 bahk$ai3 
et & hool um .ommvinumv. Foimu.-v. Jvm 
ute walk no hampo.. $475/momn- oi 
/ioom (mvsonuablv) Call 521-5338 oi Evv an 
1 oi Namh$ dmun- an x2938. 
lv ioommanv mvvv - foimu.-v apainmvmn3 
In-um book.-vlvv.3 AC3 wall-no-wall - doonklam3 ivmn mvsonuablv3 all onulunuv. umhlov - 
-2-9.
om.vloi.3 ovvi 19 w-o lukv no -avv fom am 'e fun at omuqov ovvimus-n bo$.t .ommvi p in #vmma. Ablv no um.niohn vun-vi omv of owing: wanvi.afvn$3 wanvi.kuums3 boanums3 r, ba.kvnball3 ain. am hiafn.3 iohkhlumbums3 ry, ham iauo3 iohkvni$3 .huvmhv3 aih-vi$3 k, tennis, solf3 p-onosiap-$3 puomvviums3 oi eral athletics. Wiunv Camp euivhnoi3 138 Rv bier Drive, fafa$vnnv Hull3 #A 19444.
1 Homa Cuvuh 4-ooi3 .ulvvi3 aui3 AM-FM 
m3 vxhvllvmn homunuom3 183000 mulv.3 $4900. 
-M9o.
Ca.-? Eaim $500+ vah- .h-ool $vai3 2-4 ble) -ooi. pvi wvvk plahums am fullums po.- 
om hampo.. dviuoo. woikvi. oml$; wv suvv 
~mvmanuom.. Call mow foi .ommvi am [fall. 1-800-243-6679.
 Room. foi ivmn; hool3qouvn3 hlvam3 hlo.v3 
nv; fall opnuom. $120-165. 682-13783 plva.v 
mv..asv3 -opv $oo lukv Homp-iv$ Bosain.
Excellent student summer job. Night auditor 
wanted for summer resort hotel at Lake Chautau
qua near Buffalo, NY. Bookkeeping background 
necessary, good salary, from June 20 to August 
30. Write P. O. Box 9043, Pgh.. PA 15224. 
Rooms for rent for summer period beginning 
June I and ending August 15. Maid and linen 
service provided. Only $55.00 per week, phone
682-7010.
Summer sublet!!! June-August, Male preferred. 
Single room (10' x 12') in 4-bedroom apartment. 
$95/month + approximately $30 utilities/month. Call Dave @ 683-1687, 7:00-9:00 p.m. 
Rent-a-spot - Dont drag it home to Mom  stow 
it for reasonable rates, month to month lease, 15 
min. from downtown. Open daily to 6:00 p.m. 
Weekends to 4:00 p.m.comer Rt. 885 and 
Lebanon Church Road next to County Airport 
back of Century III Mall. 655-3610.
We have the lowest airfares to Europe and across 
America! For free color brochure write to: Cam
pus Travel, Box 11387, St. Louis, MO 63105.
Special Spring Cleaning Let us help you with 
your housekeeping needs. Quick. Efficient ser
vice. Minute Maid Services. 682-3860.
Adoption: Loving, well-educated, financially 
secure couple desires white newborn. All 
expenses paid. Legal. Confidential. Call us col
lect. (617) 358-6354.
Stereo speakers3-way system, powerful bass, 
must sell $100. Phone 422-7233 eves. A real 
bargain!
Summer sublet, fall option: One bedroom apart
ment: kitchen, laundry, free parking, security 
building. Ten minutes to CMU. 285 + electric. 
681-0111.
The Battle of the Air Bands Friday, April 27 10 
p.m. Chatham College, $150 Cash Prize. Call 
441-8200, x239 for more info.
Luxury, sunny 2-bedroom apartment for rent. 
Ultimate location, carpetted, dishwasher, dispo
sal, laundry, storage, free parking. Available May 
15. Call 687-1190.
Is it true you can buy jeeps for $44 through the U.
S. Government? Get the facts today! Call (312) 
742-1142 Ext. 3401A
$175/Mo Roomie needed, 2BR, Lots of Space. 
No Pets, No Smokers, No Nerds. Utilities 
included. Call Loomis, 361-1350 (H) 624-5515 
(O).
#vnunuomvi. mvvv. Gather signatures to put 
Libertarian candidates on the ballot. Earn $6 and 
up. Call Henry Haller 241-5828.
groups/events
Exploivi. Clob. Kayaking, cross-country skiing, 
and hiking trips. Meetings on Thursdays, 6:30 
Skibo Room 12.
B$zamnumv Can-oluh Ma... Divine Liturgy is cele
brated at 7 p.m. on Saturday in Skibo 39. All 
Byzantine Catholics and anyone interested in the 
Eastern rite church is invited to join us.
Hunt fubiai$ Extended Hours - Aril 29-May 11,, 
1984. In response to student requests for addi
tional study hall facilities on campus, Hunt 
Library hours have been extended as follows: 8:00 
a.m. - 2:00 a.m.  All floors of Hunt Library 
open. 2:00 a.m. - 8:00 a.m.  First and second 
floors of Hunt Library open. Books will not be 
checked out Students will be required to show 
their CMU ID cards in order to enter Hunt 
Library after 2:00 a.m.
Ma$ 18319320. The public is invited to register for 
The Annual Conference of the Fellowship of 
Religious Humanists. A Potpourri of Huma
nist Concerns. Register at The First Uniarian 
Church of Pittsburgh, Ellsworth and Morewood 
Avenues, Pittsburgh. Phone: 621-8008 (Call 9 
a.m. - 3 p.m., M-F) for more information. A 
registration fee of $25, to be mailed direcdy or to 
be paid at the Conference. A special rate of $15 for 
students and senior citizens on fixed incomes.
J-v bosvn for The Tartan will be discussed 
Tue. April 24 at the regular Student Senate meet
ing. Anyone having input is welcome at the 
meeting.
Uibam Yoon- Action Alumni Association is 
pleased to announce its reorganization. The 
Association is offering special programs for all 
past UYA participants. To find out what the 
Associaiton has for you, contact Iris Williams or 
Richard Gillcrese at 391-7807, Monday through 
Friday, 10 a.m. - 6 p.m.
Holy Wvvk Ma..v.: (Roman Catholic) for the 
CMU Community. Holy Thursday, April 19: 
Mass of Our Lords Supper, 6:30 p.m. at Heinz 
Chapel at Pitt. Good Friday, Apr. 20: Stations of 
the Cross: 12:00 non in Rm. 39, Skibo. Stations of 
the Cross: 1:30 p.m. at Heinz Chapel. Liturgy of 
the Passion & Death of Our Lord- 2:30 p.m. at 
Heinz Chapel. Holy Saturday Easter Vigil Mass: 
9:30 p.m. at Heinz Chapel. Easter Sunday Mass of 
the Resurrection: 10:30 a.m. in Porter Hall 100 
(Gregg Hall), 12:00 in Heinz Chapel. Holy 
Week is a good time to turn to Our Lord.
dnovmn vmnivpivmvoi. interested in establishing 
or running a business on campus are invited to 
contact Student Corporation at x3535.
J-v Nanuomal Emowmvmn foi n-v Homamunuv.
has announced a unique grants program for 
individuals under 21 to spend a summer carrying 
out their own non-credit humanities research 
projects. The Younger Scholars Program will 
award up to 100 grants nationally for outstand
ing research and writing projects in such fields as 
history, philosophy and the study erf literature. 
These projects will be carried out during the 
summer of 1985. The application deadline is Sep
tember 15, 1984.
Award recipients will be expected to work full
time for nine weeks during the summer, research
ing and writing a humanities paper under the 
close supervision of a humanities scholar. Please 
note that this is not a financial aid program, that 
no academic credit should be sought for the pro
jects, and that oompeution for these grants is 
rigorous.
For guidelines, write to: Younger Scholars 
Guidelines CN, Rm. 426, The National Endow
ment for the Humanities, Washington, D. 
G 20506.
Through Apr. 21 Fairfield Porter (1907-1975): 
Realist Painter in an Age of Abstraction. Galler
ies 12 8c B, Carnegie Museum of Art, 4400 Forbes 
Ave., Oakland. Tue.-Sat. i0a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 
p.m. 622-3200.
Through Apr. 21 Japanese Prints by Utagawa 
Kunisada I (Toyokuni III) 1830-1860. Gallery 
10, Carnegie Museum of Art, 4400 Forbes Ave., 
Oakland. Tue.-Sat 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m.
622-3200.
Through Apr. 29 Arctic Plant Life Adaptations 
for Survival. Changing Exhibits Gallery, Carne
gie Museum of Natural History, 4400 Forbes 
Ave., Oakland. Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 
p.m. 622-3283.
Through Api. 29 Natural World Photographic 
Exhibition. CMNH Gallery, Carnegie Museum 
of Natural History, 4400 Forbes Ave., Oakland. 
Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m. 622-3283. 
Through Api. 29 Joan Witek: Drawings, 1976- 
1984. Gallery 1, Carnegie Museum of Art, 4400 
Forbes Ave., Oakland. Tue.-Sat 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; 
Sun. 1-5 p.m. 622-3200.
Through Apr. 29 Joan Witek: Paintings, 1980- 
1983. Carnegie Museum of Art, 4400 Forbes 
Ave., Oakland. Tue.-Sat 10a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 
p.m. 622-3200.
Excitement!
The challenge youve been waiting for, hoping for, training for, is just around 
the comer. Soon you could be working on the leading edge of one of AMDs 
high-performance technologies.
Multiproduct solutions for 
Local Area Networks
Developing new CAD 
Resources
 Advanced Bipolar 
process to double circuit 
density
 Advanced telecommuni
cations products
With your BS, MS or PhD in Electrical Engineering, Solid State Physics, 
Materials Science or Computer Science, youll find all the technological 
excitement your career can handle at AMD. And all the rewards. We will 
pass $550 million in sales for fiscal 1984 and our sights are set on break
ing new records.
If you crave the excitement of the worlds fastest growing semiconductor 
company...
Send your resume to Toni Florian, Manager, College Recruiting, 
Advanced Micro Devices, Dept. CMT, 901 Thompson Place, P.O. Box 3453, Sunnyvale, CA 94088. Or call TOLL FREE (800) 538-8450, ext. 4138 from outside California, or (408) 749-4138 inside California. An
equal opportunity employer.
PREGNANT?
And you dfdh't moon to bo? 
O I ROrr gOrGDIDe/ UrYU IDw
n n nli -*------------------------ -_____itoontwmnam imp, cbm
Birthright at621-1988
Pregnant? Call ATALets talk about your options
Caiums am homfuvmnuau umfoimanuom 
hoom.vlums3 pivsmamh$ nv.nums am 
ivlanv .vivuhv..
Honlumv: (412)731-2420Pittsburgh 731-2420Washington, PA 225-6494 
Alternatives to Abortion, Inc.
a non profit organtatwr
Advanced
MicroDevices
Allegheny Women's Center
in oof pjtieni 
medial clinir oHering
* jboflion
* It pregnancy* personal (Ounilin|i
* birth control vorvurN* mviKHokm4l (<
* Morning Mlpr lirjtinont
362-2920
/4 Uegheny ltm >,*Womens Center
abortititi
txmnsehnq M*nnr 
tt*ffh uxtrnuh and 
dtqnttu tnmi ptvtpkii^t* tin*
C*ll 78-2921CMU Travel Office
Campus Convenience
Skibo 40A

---------------------------------------------------

. .... ...
-  ................................' -
y
,
ZS
FOURSttR
Fast FREE Delivery
83-0400
4740 Baom Blv. Oaklam#s-3 #A.
13 JAdJY IJEMd JO CHOOdE FROM
PEPPERONI GROUND CHUCK THICK CRUST HOT PEPPERS OLIVES
SAUSAGE HAM ONIONS ANCHOVIES EXTRA CHEESE
 BACON GREEN PEPPERS MUSHROOMS
12"16"Cheese...........___$4.29 ........................$6.081 Item...........----- 4.98 ...................... 6.982 Items.........----- 5.75 ...................... 7.953 Items.........----- 6.52 ...................... 8.924 Items.........___ 7.29 . _____........... 9.895 Items.........___ 8.06 ......................10.86
FOUR STAR PIZZA 5 ITEMS FOR THE PRICE OF 4
f\[*| I IV P PEPPERONI, SAUSAGE, MUSHROOMS ONIONS. GREEN PEPPERSL/tLUAC SORRY NO SUBSTITUTIONS_______________
FREE eEfIVERY* 
WIJHIN 30 MIN. 
10 MIN. #ICK-U# 
STORE HOURS:
dUN-JHURd ll AM-2 AM 
FRI & dAJ 11 AM-3 AM
* WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO 
LIMIT OUR DELIVERY AREA
SORRY, WE DO NOT ACCEPT 
PERSONAL CHECKS.
VALUABLE COUPONS
I 
I
I 
I
COWONCOUPON
OFF
 |   COUPON  pi  COUPON  -| |- 
$ 3off  I m$ 2OFF1 2ofn1 ! 1
ANY 16 eEfUXE \ l>N ANY 16" #IZZA ! ON ANY 16" #IZZA - -ANY #IZZA PtPftON, SAUSAGf MUSHROOMS.     M mr * * "* OMONS. ANO GWEN PfPPCK     AND FOUR FREE 16 oz hoiv AND TWO FRFE I* OZ C.VPSM
OFCOkF   OF (X)K.t__________ TTw  33*Tss I I *00 
AND FOt'* FRF.F 16 OZ. CI!*S 
OF COKF
XAMi *DD*fSS
out COUPON TKTTKllU *fcoupon t*p-s &/I/84OoeU
II
AND TOUR FHCE 1 OZ CUPS OF COkt
 o"tiwFv"r,"r,*' < ,,.,0*. * r -Q* >t - (uuiwfiUKi a/irie ""jt" v." __
coupontxpipis d/,/H4 g 'J'ONt,Pns 6/1/84 0.ax J| j * &,M os* J | o^ocuvttvAHA
OP SS ohrs oh.hs kk ohrrhs kk [][ COMMON
A * if Si   i 
JG"C. * 0.8 3t.
*1 S. '-f 0~' '0* * a Ml
hA oh.hs -p wbx
T,GY,WODfE fi/|/g4W( HSilvl Mi *K><1 toilMlI Ou* DIIIVIPVI
